

TO MEET THE ALL-SEASON NEED FOR REFRESHMENT
&
ft
saaa*
A
\
?
\
S?
£' :
%Z
A3NO/5
n vujuS'
mm
I Hi J i J
I £o
R*
7.T i#
:
53
MW
UJ
>
4«P
a
fe*
cAToW
f>AU^
sy Ow E y AUSTAA 1 - 1 *
/ ' I
/ Hello! Sydney.
Congratulations!
Wherever you go, North, South,
East or West, you’ll find no other ,0
drinks so refreshing or satisfying '
as Resch’s RB tager or DA
Dinner Ale. They are really
Australia's best.
IN all seasons men find the need
for refreshment well met with the
rich sustaining properties of Resch’s
RB Lager and DA Dinner Ale.
For winter days they„ supply com-
forting and warming elements so
vital to the system, and during the
oppressive, scorching months of
summer they provide delicious and
cooling relief. There’s nothing bet-
ter for you on a hot day.
Your choice between RB and DA
is a matter of individual taste but
in both there is goodness worth
demanding.
Ask for them by name.
RESCHS
AUSTRALIA'S B E ST
The Bulletin
IftIaACAAA s&latJuiA
Vol. 50.—N0. 2556.
Wednesday, February 6, 1929*
Price 6d.
Jtecristered at the Genera] Post Offlre, Sydney, N.8.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


\Y/RITE FOR THE LIBRARY CATA-
w LOGT7E AND LISTS on all subjects,
wiich will be forwarded on application, post
free, to
DYMOCTC’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
mil
■Site
TO STOTT’S,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. --
Please send me free, and without obligation, pour
New Illustrated Booh (just published) entitled,
“BEAUTIFUL PENMANSHIP.”
NAME .
ADDRESS
B/P
s
STAMMERING AND STUTTERING
CAN BE CURED IN YOUR OWN HOME
Send TO-DAY for particulars of “Perfect Speech” and copies of letters from
those who have been cured. Philip O’Bryen Hoare, M.B.T.M.Sci (London) - (The
Stammerers’ Friend), Specialist in Public Speaking and the Cure of Stammering
and Stuttering.
ADDRESS:
56 BRISBANE ARCADE, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
P.O. Box 1142 P.
df
Every Swan is cl
lifelong companion
ONCE you have selected your “Swan”
Pen—with a nib exactly suited ta your _
handwriting—you will have made a life-
long friend. It will ease the burden of
correspondence and be ever ready to commit
your thoughts’to paper without wasting your
time or your patience.
The ladder-feed of the “Swan” Pen
ensures a steady, even flow of ink immedi-
ately the pen touches the paper.
“Swan” Self-Filling Pens from 17/6 upwards.
Choose it now—use it a lifetime
MABIE. TODD & CQ., L I'D. London, W.i.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depdt :
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD:,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
“Swan” Pens, “Blackbird” Pens, “Swan" Ink
and “ Fynd-Poynt ” Pencils.
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS. -
Use “Swan” Ink for “Swan" Pens and all Pens.
N
In Days of Old
White hair was
all the vogue.
In modern days
grey or white
hair is consid-
ered a sign of
approaching
age.
It is NOT "THE
THING.”
Ail traces of Grey can readily be removed
by an application of
Dr. Allen’s (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Sold at all Chemists and Stores.
Harmless, easy
to apply, can-
not be detected
Australian Agents:
DUERDIN AND
SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street,
Melbourne.
I
“THE AGE ”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
Toe Age is a publication whose policy has
always been a consistent advocacy for the
development of Australian Industries —-both
primary and secondary.
If you desire to keep closely in touch with
the news of the day, read
*THE AGE.”
It is timely, practical, wholesome and help-
ful, and its columns contain all the latest
happenings in the 1 world having 1 a genuine
news value.
Price lAd. per copy at all Newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free with-
in the Commonwealth.
THE AGE FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes Over 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates obtainable at principal
advertising agencies throughout the Common-
wealth, or from —
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
sd
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
8
6 antj,
POWDER 1 :
5
;
■v.
&
,4"'
ss
Kills Flies and Insects
Instantly.
Sold everywhere, or forward
2/- or 1/- in stamps to
Hudson’s Eumenthol
Chemical Co., Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
The Red Page
THE YORICK
2.—The Marcus Clarke Letters.
[The letters that follow this brief encounter with
one ’lcks were written by Marcus Clarke to George
Gordon MeCrae and have never before been published.
They have been supplied to the Red Page by poet
Hugh MeCrae, who inherited them from his father.
together with a hoard of reminiscences of what is
the most picturesque period in Australian literature
to date. No reference to Marcus Clarke is complete
without one notable biographical sentence; “Estab-
h^ d ff?mi a i.. We? li y v, aDcl *? lor ?ir. ly ° f
them failures.” Perhaps the letters published below
may help to explain why. A book by Hugh MeCrae
based on and embodying the letters of this series is
awaiting publication in London. Acknowledgments
are due to Mr. Hugh Wright, Mitchell Librarian, and
also to the Trustees of the Mitchell Library for
tfceir courtesy in allowing the use of letters used in
these articles.] ■
In 1879 George Gordon MeCrae was
working his eyes out in the Melbourne
Patents Office—he drew machinery in de-
tail, anatomical improvements (?) for loco-
motives, collapsible perambulators, buckets
with double bottoms to them, barbgrs’
chairs, omnibus brakes, hat-irons, armor for
Blucher-boot heels, windmills, wire ropes,
scissors-and-knife combinations, band-saws;
their like and their unlike.
His evenings in Hawthorn (at that time,
a widely-spaced village, decorated with
trees and with grass to walk upon) gave
him the relaxation he needed.
Out of office hours he wrote “The Man
in the Iron Mask.” “The Story of Balladea-
“ ‘a S
Garden of the Taj.”
“Out of office hours” has been written
advisedly; because W. Hicks, McCrae’s
chief, looked with an Arctic eye upon litera-
ture in Australia; and, should any person
have dared to jingle in the department he
administered, that person should have
jingled incontinently out again.
Good man, Hicks.
Nevertheless, not through lack of watch-
ing, he failed of his prey; so the poet
remained a poet (that is, a practising one)
only dui-ing intervals spent at his home.
One slip: MeCrae had taken Marat with
Gorday and written a drama round them-
a drama full of cries, punctuated by blows
from the guillotine. The subject obsessed
him; and, in the office, he drew, instead of
a digger’s cradle, the great-bladed instru-
ment drizzling magenta ink.
Marcus Clarke arrived on the edge of
lunch-hour; and the two were examining
the picture when Hicks walked in.
Hicks’s vocabulary, however limited, was
equal to the occasion: the drawing was
destroyed, and McCrae and his friend went
out. On their way they laughed down the
passage; and the chief’s door slammed in
protest against the insult.
A week later Marcus poked his head into
McCrae’s room; but George held up his
hand so that the visitor fell back. Immedi-
ately he appeared again, his beautiful eyes
shining like those of an angel:
“ ’Ow’s ’lcks?” he exclaimed, and vanished
from the apartment.
* * * *
A few of Clarke’s letters addressed to
G. G. McCrae: —
(a) Showing his happy carelessness:
25th June, 1877.
Dear McCrae, —
Once I wanted to write about Hol-
land. I borrowed a book and left it
for three years. I now return it with
many thanks.
Always truly yours,
Marcus Clarke.
P.S. —It is not my habit to return
books, but I, to-day, found this one
(which I thought I had lost) quite by
accident.
George Gordon McCrae, Esq.
( b ) An offer to help his friend, and a
chuckle at Hicks:
Dear McCrae, —
Can you trinquer at the house of the
light wine of the country and converse
to me of the Charlotto si noble si
douce, at the hour of 4 p.m.?
I will be at the Bibliotheque at my
devoirs.
Et M. Hicquer?
Thine,
M. C.
(c) Still trying to help his friend; still
interested in “Charlotte”:
Dear McCrae,—
_ Still in Purgatory. Syine wants a
picture for the Christmas double num-
ber of the Illustrated News. He is
not satisfied with present design. I men-
tioned your name and he said he would
be only too glad if you could do it.
His idea at present is: a girl gathering
wattle blossoms or some such things
for Chi-istmas decorations —large double
colored supplement.
Why not see him? Pay is good.
“Charlotte” has got to the. library. I
will send her up the first time I am in
town.
Truly yours,
Marcus Clarke.
( d ) Through Clarke’s influence, Ada Ward
(then playing at the Melbourne Theatre
Royal) agreed to produce McCrae's drama: !
the piece went into rehearsal, but Miss j
Ward’s elopement cancelled its perform-
ance :
Saturday, 'j
Dear McCrae, —
Can you make an appointment to j
have a yarn? I don’t care to call at
the office on private business during
office hours, after recently unfolding my j
mind to Mr. Hicks on the subject of
his communication with the late Attor-
ney-General.
I think that I can get “Charlotte
Corday” played for you —that is, if it
is an acting play, and not a reading
tragedy. You might bring it, but write
first to name hour, as I might miss you.
Truly yours,
Marcus Clarke.
(e) Anxious as ever for McCrae to do
well in the world; asks for his companion-
ship, offers him work, and suggests political
illustration:
To G. G. McC.,—
O where and O where is my Highland
laddie gone? I received the Johnsonian
episode with Boswellian comments: but
not the little book.
A confiding publisher wishes to pub-
lish “Pretty Dick'’ with etchings, but
I am trying to get him to do “Shadow
and Shine” with woodcuts. “Will you
be in it, Mr. P.?” (Thackeray at Honey-
man’s party.) The publisher stands
the racket and we share the plunder
if there is any, and the honor and
glory if there isn’t. Come and see a
cove. The pipe of peace, and the bowl
that maddens but does not exhilarate
shall be thine.
At home at Public Library on Thurs-
day at 4 p.m. .
(Continued on page 5.)


“Truth in Advertising ” rigidly adhered to by Anthony Horderns’
during the Sale and at all other times a
Anthony Horderns’
Use Our D.P.S.
Why not secure your needs now on our
Deposit-Purchase System ? Simply select
the goods you require, leave a small
deposit and pay the balance in instalments
to suit yourself. Goods are delivered in
the usual way when final payment has
been made. Remember you pay the
cash Sale Price only. No interest is
charged.
fsd
'fijLDndqdj if] 9 / JSD'j
S. M
SBS
nV
i'-’/r*; s •• jij kk
sinrtTwfc
Sis
38££
:!H>T4^W
BSSS
—r^Tn.n
k|«
Hi
III!
<8
MSS®
3ss»*i
a.- 6 *»««>!
8®»
-r; ■;
*DM
|§i
pUg!
an
>•
You can buy Jewellery now, saving immensely
yet knowing it is of the finest quality.
30/- Schoolgirls’ Watch, 20-
Excellent value in Schoolgirls’ Silver
Wrist Watches, 1 5 jewelled, Swiss make.
Complete on Black Moire Band with
Silver Snap. Fully guaranteed. Six
designs to choose from. Price, 30/-.
Sale Price 20/-
25/- Gent.’s Nickel Watch, 21/-
Gent.’s Cushion-shaped Nickel Wrist
Watch, complete on strap. Swiss make, 7
jewelled lever movement. Guaranteed
an excellent timekeeper. Price 25/-
Sale Price 21/-
£37/10/- Diamond Watch, £3O
Lady’s Diamond Wrist Watch, ,15
jewelled lever movement. Case is made
in 18ct. White Gold. In many attrac-
tive designs. Similar to above illustration.
Price £37/10/-. . .Sale Price £3O
Others £l6 to £6O. All reduced 20
per cent.
All Diamond Jewellery
Reduced 20°/,
41- in the £
£3/5/- to £2O
Less 20 p.c.
X)
'■'isst
m
£6 to £45
Less 20 p.c.
£8 to £4O
Less 20 p.c.
£6 to £35
Less 20 p.c.
izar?'
£7 to £35
Less 20 p.c.
£lO to £35
Less 20 p.c.
£6 to £3O
Less 20 p.c.
£7 to £4O
Less 20 p.c.
m
£lO to £4O
Less 20 p.c.
£lO to £5O
Less 20 p.c.
£lO to £65
Less 20 p.c.
tMiiim
£l2 to £5O
Less 20 p.c.
Illustrated above is a selection from our exten-
sive stock of brilliant Diamond Engagement
Rings. The stones are all set in Pure Platinum,
while the mounts are of 1 Bct. Gold. Inspection
is certain to impress, but it entails no obligation.
Complete satisfaction or money refunded.
Repairs, Remounting, etc.,
promptly executed in first-class style.
20/- Gold Sleeve Links, 17 6
Illustrated above are two attractive Links
taken from the large assortment offering
at Anthony Horderns. Strongly made
and beautifully finished. Pfice 20/-.
Sale Price 17/6
Others from 8/6 to 30/-. All reduced
by 2/6 pair.
£3/11/- Watch Chain, £3 4 -
9 and 15ct. Gold Watch Chains, as illu-
strated above, 20dwt. in weight. All
reduced 10 per cent. (2/- in the £).
Hand finished. Complete with two swivels,
bar and drop.
9ct., Price £3/1 1/- Sale Price, £3/4/-
1 sct., Price £5/9/- Sale Price, £4/18/-
Others: 9ct., 35/- to £6/11/-. 1 sct.,
£3/1 1/- to £lO/9/-. All less 10 per cent.
70/- Diamond Brooch, 56/-
Attractive Bar Diamond Brooch. Bar is
of !sct. Solid Gold, while the sparkling
Diamond is set in pure Platinum. Price
of design illustrated above, £3/10/-
Sale Price £2/167-
Others £4/10/-, £5/10/- to £2O. All
reduced 20 per cent.
Jewellery Department, First Floor. Carriage Paid.
Anthony Horderns
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G,P»O.


Plymouth Business Coupe,
An amazing difference
among the few cars in the
lowest priced field..
r
A
mum
Plymouth wins public
preference because of
greater Value in size ,
style, quality and performance —
With the arrival of the new
Chrysler-built Plymouth the search
for greater value in the lowest-
priced field is made surprisingly
simple.
All you need do is to summon up
a mental picture of the few other
cars in this field.
The way the new Plymouth stands
out from the others like a
mountain peak among hills—will
give you a start.
It is so unmistakably in a class by
itself —with its full size, its new and
original style, its fine quality of
finish and fittings. But the contrast
in Plymouth’s favor becomes still
more startling in the matter of
performance—in its speed, pick-up
and power, from its new “Silver-
Dome” high-compression engine
using any gasoline; its smoothness
and roadability; its safety because
of light action internal-expanding
hydraulic 4-wheel brakes.
The buyer who seeks money-value
first will inevitably choose the new
Plymouth, after observing the very
significant contrasts in greater
pound-for-pound value it presents
to every other car in the lowest-
priced field.
IV.S.W.: Larke, Neave & Carter Ltd., William St., Sydney.
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Collins Street, Melbourne.
Qid.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS
West. Aust.: William Attivood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth,
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington,
New Guinea: W. R. Carpenter & Co. Ltd., Rabaul.


HIGH-GRADE MANILA CIGARS
AT
SALE PRICES
LESS 2/- IN THE £ FOR CASH
La Flor de Lavinab: —
Royals, per box of 50. Usually 30/-. Sale, 24/6
Jockey Club, box of 10. Usually 5/6. Sale, 4/3
Jockey Club, box of 25. Usually 12/6. Sale, 9/11
Jockey Club, box of 50. Usually 24/6. Sale, 19/6
Beauties, box of 50. Usually 21/-. Sale, 17/3
Habano Longs,box of 50. Usually 21/-. Sale, 17/3
Habano Extra Heavys, box of 100. 45/“- Sale, 37/6
Still less 2/- in the £ for Cash .
DAVID JONES’
Castlereagh, Market and Elizabeth Streets.
Branch Men’s Shop . . . opposite G.P.O,
Historical fresco for the new Law-
Courts —the "I’ortonian" whacking A.
T. Clark with the “Zulu bodyguard
sharpening his teeth in the background.
'O».' S -lots? M c
(/) Clarke not in good health. Contem-
plates moving his household. Great wel-
come promised to McCrae. Clarke s whim-
sical address: “The Lodge in the Garden
of Cucumbers”:
Robe-st.
Dear McCrae,—
Many thanks for your kind note. I
have been deuced bad, but am now a
little better, and visit the Library—at
the glimpses of the moon; —with goggles
concealing my manly optics.
To add to my delight, the eldest boy
has indulged in a little spree of measles
nil to himself, and, as we are going to
move next week to a place nearer Bala-
clava, you can guess that the young
rascal's selfish sport has a little incon-
commoded us.
Do not address again to the Lodge
in the Garden of Cucumbers, but to the
Library. The new house is called
“Sunnyside”—principally because it is
as damp as blazes (rather Oirish this)
—and is elegantly situated in Chapel-
street, next to the residence of Tom
Miller (be God, sir!), and opposite the
Wesleyan Chapel (God be good to us!),
the State School (oeh the haythins!)
is forninst the door, and a mighty civil
butcher round the corner, me dear, who
shall (wid the mercy of Mary!) have
the providin’ a cut av the primest for
ye when you do us the honor of puttin’
your legs under the Filtre-and-Clarico
meehoginy!
'Ow's Tcks?
Yours always,
Filtre-and-Clarico.
(<7) An invitation for McCrae to see
Clarke’s play “A Daughter of Eve”:
The O’Crae, —
Sor, —A select partliy of the nobilitoe
visit the Bjew Theatre on Monday nixt,
whin Oi have the pleasure to projuice
a new comedec entoitled “A Daughter
of Eve.” I take the liberthee to enclose
to yez an order of admission, and hope
to have the height of happiness to see
yez or some of your frinds occupoying
the sates resarved for yez.
Recave, Sor, the assurance of me dis-
tinguished considerayslmn, and belave
me to remane, Sor,
Your most obaydynt,
De Philthbe and Clakryco.
(A) Clarke speaks lightly to his old com-
panion about hard times. He makes fun
of his illness, congestion of the liver, the
disease.which finally killed him:
Misther O’Donahoo —ye divil—lt is
mesilf that coulisses ye tq be the pink
of purloiglitness, but if ye call some-
time when I'm in the way, honey,
’twould be more plazing to me.
Och, Mister O’D, but ye don’t know
what I’ve gone through of late. Me
sainted ancesthor the Juke —God rest
his sowl in glory—left the family dia-
monds just a trifle encumbered, and ’tis
Oi that have
the neeo-
ciatsliu n s
with the
Da m n e d
Derondas.
I’ve been
likewise laid un
with a pain in me
timpir - a calam-
itee which. I trust,
yer free from,
Misther O’D —and
the lift lobe of me
liver has done
liimsilf the honor
to git congisted.
Oeh, wirrastrue,
and it is far to
Munster, me dear!
But I can guess
what vou’ll be sav-
in’. Maere of the
Mountain, whin
you read these few
and unpretendin’
lines. You’ll be sayin’ “A wool” and
“Ay mon!” and “A’s aw for that, ma
jo,” and other remairkable observations
diggit oot o’ your wame, ma mannie! By
the little toenail of a fastin’ priest on
the twentieth Tuesday aftlier Thrinity
(and that’ a big oath) it’s me that ye
want behoind ye with me paadeen, my
spalpeen and me sprig of the right rale
plant that grows grim and gory out of
Saxon blood on the rare ould soil, the
Immerald Oile, ye black-hearted Sas-
sanach ! Faix, Oi’d rattle the ash twigs
about the ears of the dragoons of Kil-
lermany and send that bloody Berna-
dette to the roight-about wid wan of
the largest fleas in his avincular ana-
thomy that iver took up habitation in
the corpus humanum, Misther O’Dona-
hoo! By the ninth sthripe on the left-leg
garter of the varginal Saint Bridgit, but
’tis Terry O’Flynn, O’Philtre Juke of
Clarico and Marquis of Poldoody’s
Nook, in the Bight of the Divil’s Bit
that would make them shake their
shirt-tails to the tune of “Wigs on the
Green.”
Yours in disgust.
CLARICO.
An Author to His Critics
Dear Bulletin, — This morning I received
the first two notices of my book “Vanity
Under the Sun” from Australia. I can’t say
they gave me a painful shock, for they
merely fulfilled expectations based on bitter
experience. I have now published four
novels and in all the notices I have received
from my native land about half a dozen
were worthy of putting alongside the
English and American reviews—except for
purposes of humorous comparison when the
books were a great success. I don’t know
as yet what you think of “Vanity,” but the
fact that you published one of the rare
good notices prompts me to send you this.
Obviously reviewers are entitled to their
own opinions, and an author would be a
fool to dispute them. I do suggest, how-
ever, that the contrast offered below is
significant. I don’t know one book-reviewer
in England or America, but the men on
the Age and Argus doubtless know me.
That shouldn’t make them kind to me, I
agree, but it seems a pity that it should
place them in the unhappy position of be-
ing unable to find a single virtue in “Vanity
Under the Sun.”
Here, then, is a little series of compari-
sons:
A great deal has been expected of Mr. Dale
Collins since “Ordeal,” but so far he has not luifilled
these expectations.—Aon.
“Vanity Under the Sun” is the best of the four
novels he has written— Times Literary Supple-
ment.
“Ordeal” was a fine novel, but perhaps “Vanity
Under the Sun” will prove to be more enduring.—
Manchester Guardian.
It will be admitted that Mr. Dale Collins does
not do himself justice in his latest novel.—Argus.
“Vanity Under the Sun” marks a great advance
in artistry on the part of its author. — N. Y. Timer.
The story is thin, the action unconvincing and
lacking in dramatic situations. It is an absurdly
ineffective climax. An author who does not keep a
good card up his sleeve for the climax docs not
know how to play his hand.—Age.
Has the narrative force, tension and vivid exact
description of his previous stories. It is an ex-
tremely enjoyable book, and has a twist at the end
worthy of the masters of story-telling.— Daily Mail.
The novel ends in a flare that illuminates and
makes significant the whole. A flat or obvious end-
ing would have been heart-breaking.—N. Y. Satur-
day Review op Literature.
A reasonable use of coincidence nmy be allowed,
but there are limits beyond which it is not fair
for a writer to make demands on his reader. —Argus.
All the pieces are fitted into the design with j.
disciplined sense of drama that sets a great gulf
between him and writers who are prepared to buy
sensation at any cost. —Times Literary Supplement.
Throughout the book the author's psychology is
amazingly false. —Age.
The girl Leila is an astounding character. We
know of no one in fiction who resembles her. Minor
personalities of brilliant individuality are on every
page.—-New York Saturday Review.
An extraordinary and fascinating mixture of
adventure and psychological analysis.— N. Y. Times.
Mr. Collins, it seems, must be an uncomfortable
person to be acquainted with it he exhibits in real
life the same curiosity about the inner secrets of
one's mental existence that he does in his novels.
He is an adept at this delineation of the character
behind the character.— Manchester Guardian.
That doesn’t seem to need a great deal
of comment. It may be, of course, that the
critics of the London Times, the New
York Times, the Saturday Review of
Literature, the Daily Mail and so on are
as children compared with the reviewers of
the Melbourne (Australia) Age and Argus,
but somehow I doubt it. The explanation
seems to be simpler than that and to bear
out the opinion held by most Australians
who succeed abroad—really succeed, that is
—that such success is a sure way to gain
the enmity aiid jealousy of the people at
home, thus, since no Australian ever be-
comes naturalised as anything but an Aus-
tralian, leaving oneself without a country.
It is significant that all the worst notices
I have had from Australia have come from
Melbourne, the town where I spent most
of my life. Even the distance to Sydney
makes some difference.
Australian book weeks and authors’
societies should be useful institutions, but
they can’t do much in the face of the per-
sistent crusade against Australians by Aus-
tralians. If it applied to me alone it
wouldn’t matter. I am quite a small per-
son and of no importance in the general
scheme. I make my living elsewhere, and
get my appreciation elsewhere. But there
are others who suffer who have less scope
and equally deserve recognition. Even a
favorable review of an Australian novel
damns with faint praise most frequently and
reeks with the pestilent note: “It’s really
almost good, particularly seeing it’s only
written by an Australian.”
Up to the time the Australian notices
arrived I had not had one bad criticism
for “Vanity Under the Sun.” Scandinavian
book rights have been sold and German
book and serial rights, also. Others will
follow. Some of the notices were naturally
less enthusiastic than others, but that one
can understand as the honest redactions of
different readers. Hymns of hate are in a
different category. I should have been
much sorrier to have written those notices
than just to have had to read them and
smile: How these Australians love one an-
other ! —Sincerely yours,
DALE COLLINS
London, Christmas, 1928.
[To help in judging between Dale Collins and his
critics, here is what The Bulletin reviewer said of
“Vanity Under the Sun” (R.P. 26/12/’28) : “The
plot substance that Dale Collins here employs—lost
memory—has been worn rather threadbare since
the war, but he manages to give it a new twist
that compensates for its lack of originality.,..
The ending has been used by O. Henry, but is good
enough to stand the repetition, and the yarn as a
whole is a first-rate entertainer.”
If pressed to it, the reviewer wpuld add that
“Vanity Under the Sun” compared with the author’s
“The Sentimentalists” is as a star to a dustbin, but,
because of the hackneyed nature of its plot, is not so
good as the brilliant and original “Ordeal.”]
♦
The Vedanta According to Samkara and
Ramanuja, by S. Radhakrishnan (George
Allen and Unwin). A reprint of the sections
of the second volume of the professor-
author's comprehensive “Indian Philosophy”
dealing with the Vedanta philosophy, the
metaphysical background of the Hindu re-
ligion. The reasoning of its two principal
interpreters, Samkara and Ramanuja, is
traced out and explained in good English
prose. An admirable exposition.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Hal llolt; Don’t agree with y0u....
W.C. (Williamstown): Much obliged, but ground
covered lately. Your preliminary song-and-dance is
too long, anyway. .. .W.N.C.: Yes, tell us how lie
does it.... H. 8.5.: They are good chaps, no
to leave 60 p.e. of their bills uncollected; but don't
get hysterical—it’s to make up for just this that
they charge 50 guineas for an operation... .W.J.11.:
Much obliged; but it wasn’t Shakspeare who wrote
“A little learning is a dangerous thing”; it was
Pope. And it was a darned silly couplet, t 00... .E.P.:
It gushes a little... .A. 8.5.: Doesn’t quite make the
weight.... Doric: Your “Sheik Show” didn’t stir
even the Office Flapper... .A.G.J.: One has a chance.
. ...D.P.M.: Missed, but only by a whisker....
Joseph O’C.: You have ideas, but you turn ’em to
vapor.... L.McP.: Correct enough, but they say
nothing... .S.J.: If that’s verse, we’ll drink water.
. ...J.8.: Good local color in “The Swagman”:—
Sometimes a stick he whittles,
Just to occupy his mind,
Then thinks of beer and skittles,
And the girl he left behind ;
The tucker bag’s near empty,
But that don’t trouble him,
For he feels contented
Because he’s well broke in.
For he is only a swagman,
Not statesman or magsman,
Only a swagman is him.
N.L.D.: “Sunflowers” far too long for what’s in it.
... . J.G.Bc : Prose and verse are like drink —you mix
at your own risk E.D.: Regret cannot trace...
R. :No warmth in “Fireglow”. . . .N.D.: They don’t
attract... .L.A.S.: “The Dukes and Lords” counted
out in the second round... .H. 8.: “Modern Nut”
rather pulpy.... Mac Duff: No; plain duff... .W.J.M.:
Too much padding in the story of the parson who
exorcised the ghost by asking for a contribution to
the church building fund....D.K.: Not enough in it.
. ...E.F.M.: As small beer as we ever tasted
D.J.H.: “Slipping” slipped into the discards
J. Est.: “Gargoyles” too grotesque... .Bay Ash:
Something in it, but hard to find a place for it... .
Mail o’ Kent: “Perhaps some day we shall fix a man’s
wages in accordance with what he earns, not what lie
spends.” Perhaps, but we shall have to muzzle our Pid-
dingtons first.... M.H.M.: About as stimulating as
cold boiled cabbage J.E.P.: Australia is the “land
of beauty,” “home of wattle,” “kissed by the sun.’’
and “bounteou- land of the free.” You’re not bril-
liantly original, are y0u?.... Geo. G.: Guillotine
used oil political verse. .. .Will C.: Aou seem to
think ideas, like wine, improve with age. .. .C.8.H.:
“Opera on the Farm” gets the bird.. . .L.J.R.: An
empty lot Marsu: “A Brother’s Goodbye” is not
as good as some we’ve beard. .. .P. 8.: Fair—for
eleven F.G.: You can’t chance it here... .T.L.:
“To a Politician Who Has Passed Away” flatters the
breed A M.L.: Verse about the dead year goes the
wav of its thousand comrades... .C. 1.: Not for us... .
S. “Fairy Gold” assayed and found pinchbeck....
A.L.S. : “Foliage—Dark Age.” O lovely rhyme!
Kid McG.: Leagues too long for its content.. . .E.O :
Considering its thickness, your bundle is incredibly
thin S.T.: “It will possibly be perfectly obvious
that the verse is original.” Well, it was yon said it
.... R.A.8.: Painstaking, but too tame. .. .R.G.D.,
No meat in it Panurge: Too darned technical.
E.H.S.: Not ill told, but some front-rank
authors have got ahead of you with that theme.. ..
J.E.S.: Too blood-and-thundery.... L.S.: A creepy
story, but it needs more artistic treatment. .. .
U. : Lost by a head J.D.: “The Count”
counted out as too utterly preposterous. .. .Henry
Porter: Not even Henry Half-and-half... .H.W.M.:
Romanes undiscernible... . A..T.: “Runner' far too
long-drawn-0ut.... Millicent: The most cheerful thing
read for weeks: —
The gibbet gaunt like a witch’s prop,
A well-c haftd wooden beam,
A straining rope and a ten-feet drop,
A felon’s strangled scream,
Tlie sighing scream of a hanging form,
As creakily it swings,
The rattling throat and a corpse still warm,
The sound of vultures’ wings.
... .Astris: Too often done. .. . J.E.: Feel sorry for
you out there —racing over the sunburnt, boundless
plains with your veins bursting Rime-Frost: An
ear that can rhyme “more” with “Noah” needs
threshing Mrs. Pet: You’re wasting good egg-
money on stamps L.M.: We’re sharpening the
axe for someone, but we won’t say whom until it
hits y0u.... S. II.: A triolet has eight lines, two
rhymes and abqut one chance in a hundred. ...
Sclmap: Arrivals and departures of Greeks: 1923.
921 and 01 ; 1924, 1985 and 159 ; 1925, 045 and
300; 1920, 083 and 277; 1927, 1593 and 350. Of
Jugo-Slavs: 1925 (first year separate figures were
kept), 950 and 538; 1920, 1427 and 484; 1927,
1432 and 307 V. 8.: Foch is in his 78th year.
The cableman said it was uremia—very dangerous
when the sufferer is that 01d... .W. Subs.: U.S.
citizens of both sexes are supposed to get the Federal
vote at 21, but some of the Southern States con-
trive to discriminate against negroes, although such
discrimination is technically unconstitutional.
Members of the U.S. House of Reps, must be at
least 25. Here the minimum age for Representatives
is 21; the late Charles Frazer became M.H.R. for
Kalgoorlie at 23.... Fourteen 13: Jacka won the
V. and the M.C. and bar. .. . J.P.8.: Unable to
trace either of the books mentioned. No biography
of Archie Meston has been published in book form.
W.G.M.: (1) Yes; stamp duty, registration
fees and costs. (2) See a solicitor.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.G.C.: You are right about your work; but
keep 0n... . R.G.: Our photo-engraver saw' it and
fainted. .. .C.W.J.H.: Don’t trouble us with those
toughs again. . . .G.E.T.: You get: the bird. .. .L.R.T.:
Now, wasn’t that pair rejected months ag0?....
D.M.M.: See if you can’t do better... .C.C.: No
sympathy for pedestrian—-or artist... .T.H.: As far
off as ever. . . .G.H.J.: Lad, it’s not your game
W. : Ne “Troubles never come singly,” it’s
the same with hopeless artists.


71
ml,
a
•;
;,v
.
•,
«sfp^
■ ■ ■
■
IMtti
m ' ?**
w,f
• ■ \
. v . •
/ , •:. .' •• • ' '
■: . . ,* . ■ . :■
j
rfsmSfm, , *
3 «r* $> ' ■
#


The Bulletin
Vol. 50.—N0. 2556.
February 6, 1929. _
ANOTHER ABDICATION PENDING.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspapei
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
£l4 George Street, Sydney.
Victoria : 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To ANY address OVERSEAS: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 4oz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional 40z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possess'ions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES . . 2, 5
Marcus Clarke’s Unpublished
Letters .. .. .. .. 2
DALE COLLINS TO HIS CRITICS . . . . 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . . . 5
THE FRONT PAGE—By Leasori 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
The Australian Boy .. 8
TOO MANY PARASITES 8
BRITAIN AND THE U.S.A 8
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 9
POLITICS (with caricatures) .. .. .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. .. 11, 12
PERSONAL—with caricatures by Low and others 14
’lDE—Cartoon by Scorfield .. .. .. 15
POVERTY POINT 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) . . .. 17
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS . . . . 18, 20
PATERSON, LAING AND BRUCE .. ..18
METROPOLITAN GAS 18
The Mercantile Bank .. .. 20
A DORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 23,25
Free Service Department • .. 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 29
PRIZES FOR FARMERS 28
DOES TOP-DRESSING PAY? .. .. ..28
SMOKE-OH 32
“BRACKEN” 34, 58
PEN AND PICTURE 37
THE KING IN A TALKIE 37
SPORTING (Illustrated) 39, 41, 42
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 44
MORE WINTER FASHIONS 44
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 46
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 49
Three Complete Stories—
“THE MASTER OF THE ATLAS,” by J. H.
M. Abbott 51,53
“THE PROOF,” by Alys Brown .. .. .. 55
“OBJECT, MATRIMONY,” by Ferdinand Mc-
Mahon .. .. .. .. .. 57
VERSE 53, 58
“MAKING HOME,” by Riverina .. ..23
“THE TEAMS OF YESTERYEAR,” by E. S.
Sorenson .. .. .. .. .. 25
“THE BRIDE OF THE LIGHTNING,” by
Georgia Rivers .. .. .. .. 53
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1929.
THE AUSTRALIAN BOY.
The question of what boys do when they
leave school is discussed by the N.S.W.
Department of Education in its report for
1927; and it gives some arresting figures.
During the year 9552 boys quitted the
N.S.W. Government primary and super-
primary (or pre-vocational) schools. The
vocational history of 8948 of them has been
recorded: 156 went into mines and 587 into
factories; 297 got jobs in the Public Ser-
vice, 238 as messengers; 362 became clerks
and 1050 shop assistants; 1725 entered
trades and 1706 pastoral and agricultural
pursuits; and 2947 (30.9 per cent.) “drifted
into unskilled employment.” No fewer than
1877 of the 2947 “did not proceed beyond
the sixth-class standard,” which means,
among other things, that they had no chance
of getting appointments open to lads with
their Leaving, Intermediate or Junior Tech-
nical certificates. Among them were 184
boys aged 13 and under, and 2328 aged
14; only 70 reached the ninth or high-
est class. And 1628 of the 2947 were country
boys.
But the army of unskilled laborers is not
recruited from the primary institutions
alone. The secondary schools also swell its
ranks; of 1814 boys from intermediate high
schools 264 were employed in unskilled
occupations, 498 as clerks and 286 as shop-
assistants, only 25 becoming factory workers.
D. H. Drummond, the Minister, acknow-
ledges that boys who are “intellectually
fitted for a better class of employment” are
“drifting aimlessly” into dead-end jobs and
donkey-work. He finds the position “some-
what disappointing.” It is worse than that;
it is a tragedy, a national tragedy—for
there is no reason to suppose that things
are any better in the other States.
Drummond attributes the drift which he
deplores to “economic pressure and parental
indifference or lack of influence or initiative
to place the boys more satisfactorily,” and
he suggests that there is “need for greater
co-operation between the Education Depart-
ment, the boy and the employer.”' But
there is also evidence—the department itself
furnishes it—that far too little attention is
given to technical training by the authors o'f
“the finest educational system in the world.”
Exclusive of £734,000 spent on buildings,
the N.S.W. Government Education bill
for 1927 was a trifle over four millions;
of this the secondary schools absorbed
£421,000 and the technical schools only
£191,000 —Is. 7d. per head of population.
In the chapter dealing with technical edu-
cation the damaging admission is made that
“in the metropolitan area alone more than
a thousand would-be students had to be
turned away from the trade classes” owing
to lack of room or shortage of teachers, or
both, although fees are charged—£2o,7oo
was collected altogether in 1927. On the
other hand, the average attendance at high
schools, which are free, was thousands short
of the enrolment. N. S. Wales would get
better value for its money if the technical-
school vote were doubled and the high-
school vote halved.
Another factor in the making of dead-
enders, and a very potent one, is the craze
for public borrowing—that and the accom-
panying prejudice against Australian brains
and industry and their fruits, which is still
formidable though it is no longer con-
sidered a virtue to parade it. Australia in
1926-27 had to pay 35 millions in interest
to its British and American creditors; never-
theless its imports that year amounted to
23 millions sterling more than its exports.
It imported goods to the value of
£164,700,000, and a large proportion was con-
signed to Governments and local bodies,
being purchased out of loans. For foreign
metals and metal manufactures alone it
paid £51,282,000 (N. S. Wales’s share was
£20,130,000), though it is capable of pro-
ducing practically all its requirements m
this department. The apparel that arrived
was valued at £7,101,000; textiles came to
£28,813,000; machines and machinery
accounted for £16,640,000; furniture, dressed
timber and other imports in the wood and
wicker group were entered at £5,516,000.
The importing disease still rages among
Governments, municipal councils, business
people and private purchasers alike.
Not only has the disease brought about
a very awkward financial situation; it is
cramping the lives of thousands of lads.
Crowded out of offices and banks by girls,
these youngsters have very little chance
of becoming, say, workers in iron and steel,
rubber and leather and textiles, much less
makers of motor vehicles and electric
machinery, while their country gets so much
skilled work done in other countries. Yet,
given the opportunity, Australians can turn
out manufactures equal to any in the world,
as Sir Arthur Duckham has testified, re-
ferring in particular to the Newcastle steel-
works, McKay’s agricultural-implement
factory, and Holdens, the motor-body
builders.
The Australian boys of to-day are prob-
ably as good as the Australian boys of 29
years ago, out of whom the Anzacs were
made. Certainly they are too good in the
mass for the dead-end jobs to which so
many of them are condemned, to the dis-
credit, and perhaps the danger, of the nation.
TOO MANY PARASITES.
A. mystery of no ordinary size is imbedded
in the official returns of the community’s
principal occupations of the useful sort —
the matter of what people work, and what
they work at, and what people exist mostly
by taking in each other’s washing or occa-
sionally stealing it off the line.
Washing and other ministrations are use-
ful and necessary, but it is essential that
the proportion of inhabitants who do some-
thing which will help to meet the nation’s
liabilities shouldn’t vanish out of sight;
hence these figures:
Principal Occupations in 1907.
Agricultural,
Pastoral and
Dairying .. 371,962 902 per 10,000 people
Mining .. .. 121,551 294 per 10,000
Four Big Primary
Industries . . 493,513 1196 per 10,000
Manufactures .. 248,859 599 per 10,000
Total .. .. 742,372 1795 per 10,000
That left 8205 inhabitants out of 10,000 to
be accounted for by houseworkers (who
don’t fit into any category), children (a
larger proportion of the community then
than now), the unfit, the misfit, buyers and
sellers, carriers of people and merchandise,
public employees of one sort and another,
teachers, doctors, nurses and a multitude of
odds and ends. It was a fairly solvent and
prosperous time.
Ten years later the position was less
promising:
Principal Occupations in 1917.
Agricultural,
Pastoral and
Dairying .. 383,333 782 per 10,000 people
Mining .. .. 65,542 134 per 10,000
Four Big Primary
Industries .. 448,875 916 per 10,000
Manufactures .. 321,670 659 per 10,000
Total .. .. 770,545 1575 per 10,000
That left 8425 other persons to live princi-
pally on the productive exertions of 1575;
and as the position was distinctly changed
for the worse, it began to look as if the
8425 were too many for the 1575 to provide
for.
Another 10 years showed a further move-
ment to the bad:
Principal Occupations in 1927.
Agricultural,
Pastoral and
Dairying . . 425,187 689 per 10,000 people
Mining .. . . 55,399 89 per 10,000
Four Big Primary
Industries .. 480,586 778 per 10,000
Manufactures .. 467,247 757 per 10,000
Total .. . . 947,833 1535 per 10,000
Manufactures grew in a remarkable way:
and, considering the vast mass of goods
which are imported and which are capable
of being replaced by local products, there
is still abundant room for expansion. But
the growth didn’t prevent the number of
workers in the great recognised industries
declining in 20 years from 1795 to 1535
out of every 10,000 of population.
The enlarged number with a lack of law-
ful, visible and productive means of sup-
port, and having no inclination for the
frugal life, took the line of least resist-
ance, which was the familiar route to the
pawnshop, with these results:
Loan Year’s
Money Spent Interest Payable
by States. by States.
1907.. £3,882,925 £8,715,362
1917.. 14,714,294 14,256,216
1927.. 30,683,177 33,351,614
This was quite independent of war charges,
which appear in the Federal accounts. It
represents the increasing effort of the in-
creasing population without lawful, visible
and productive means of support to find
living and occupation somehow. In 1907
the States paid less than half their interest
bill out of new loans and more than half
out of their people’s earnings. By 1917 they
had begun to charge all the interest and
£450,000 more to loans. By 1927 they were
charging all the interest and £3,300,000
more against loans; and, the interest bill
being nearly four times what it was in
1907, the amount to be borrowed made
the situation terribly precarious. The
fact that the population which was not
accounted for as employed in agricultural,
pastoral, dairying or manufacturing work
was 1,840,000 more in 1927 than in 1907
may help to account for the exceedingly
alarming situation. The individual worker
may have gained more value through im-
proved methods and machinery, but he
didn’t gain sufficient extra value, else the
loan trouble wouldn’t have increased by
300 per cent, in 20 years. And all the
efforts of revolutionary agitators are directed
towards the supnression of productive em-
ployment and the consequent increase of
the army which lives by peddling and
trading, by lingering on Government and
municipal jobs, by finding Government or
municipal billets, by the flotation of bogus
insurance and other companies, by the sale
of imaginary estate, including castles in
Spain and mansions in the sky, and by
shifty and intricate time-payment devices.
If a sick man is always getting worse ,
what happens?
THE WHALE AND THE BEAR.
“Senator Borah said that the United States and
Britain were on the eve of a naval race not dissimilar
from that of Britain and Germany from 1905 to
1914. He attributed the uneasiness in the world over
the naval strength of the principal Powers to lack
of sea law plainly setting forth the rights of
neutrals during war. If there was no such restate-
ment and no agreement for disarmament was reached,
the United States undoubtedly would build a navy
large enough to protect its commerce in any circum-
stances.”—Washington cable.
It is axiomatic that every nation becomes
as imperialistic as it can; nor will it be
otherwise till human beings lose the impulse
to make a display of wealth. Millions of
Americans have a sincere dread of imperial-
ism, but they are no more than the dogs
that bark while the caravan moves on.
The American Frank Simonds wrote:
“What we have been doing in Hayti, in
Nicaragua, in Panama, is explained in
Europe as wholly analogous to what Britain
has done in the Mediterranean. Our purpose
to hold the Caribbean seems no more than
a repetition of the policy by which the Brit-
ish acquired Gibraltar, Malta and Cyprus.
Panama is our Egypt. The Panama Canal
is what the Suez Canal is for British Im-
perialism—the life-line of Empire.”
And, pacifist cant apart, why not?
America is the richest and potentially
strongest/of the nations; and no country has
achieved such a position without trying
sooner or later to rule the world.
Uncle Sam’s trouble is that he cannot see
how to start. John Bull took up the
white man’s burden in most of the eco-
nomically-desirable regions long ago, and he
will not drop it while health and strength
remain. He has been able to resist one
attempt after another to ease him of it, chiefly
through his oft-declared “right of search”
at sea. The Continental nations recognise,
even if the U.S.A. does not, that the exer-
cise of this “right”—a maritime equivalent
in many ways of the Monroe Doctrine—
lost Germany the war. The blockade caused,
first, loss of moral, and, finally, anarchy
behind the German lines in 1918; and by
making trade with the Allies impossible it
helped materially to bring America in on
the Entente side. To ask the Powers to
pass “a sea law setting forth the rights of
neutrals during war” (in other words, to
ask them to outlaw the “right of search”)
is as impracticable in the circumstances as
Litvinoff’s proposals for immediate world
disarmament at Geneva last year, or as the
proposal which lately caused an uproar in
the French Senate that the use of aero-
planes should be outlawed in war.
In any event such a sea law as Senator
Borah advocates could have no force. One
of the greatest of Americans, Alexander
Hamilton, said:—
“It is essential to the idea of a law that
it be attended with a sanction; or in other
words a penalty or punishment for disobedi-
ence.”
To think that Britain, with its national
life at stake, would be deterred by an unen-
forceable “sea law” from seeing that neutrals
did not supply its enemies with the neces-
saries of warfare would be to imagine an
absurdity.
There is one way in which the U.S.A.
might go near to providing the equivalent ol
that disarmament which Senator Borah
says he wants. If America consented to
come into the League of Nations the U.S.
fleet might co-operate with the Royal Navy
in “imposing sanctions” (for example, the
blockade) on any defiant Power. Such a
combination ought to diminish the trucu-
lency even of a Mussolini, and enable
the at present somewhat futile league to
start wielding a Big Stick for world-peace
to some purpose.
But the urge of America—spoken or un-
spoken, conscious or otherwise—is towards
empire. And the essence of the league’s
policy is to [maintain the international
status quo—-a position which is of no more
use to the imperialists of the U.S.A. to-day
than it was to the imperialists of Germany
25 years ago.
Is war, then, the only way out? It might
be since, in spite of the friendly protesta-
tions of public men on both sides of the
Atlantic, there is no particular affinity be-
tween the average Briton and the average
American. Providentially, however, with
transport in its present stage of develop-
ment, neither Power can get at the other.
It is the whale and the bear over again;
only more so. The Americans may have
the money to build the ships; they may
even be able to persuade their young men
to forego the glittering opportunities of
civilian iife in the States and man them.
But the British have the bases, without
which the largest and most efficient of fleets
is immobilised.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The South-North Kailway and the
Elusive Barkly Tableland.
“J.E.”: For years past mean persons have
been urging that the Commonwealth should
tear up the agreement to construct the
South-North railway, which was one of the
conditions on which South Aus. handed over
334,000,000 acres of Crown land, and build
instead a line somewhere else for somebody
else’s profit. None of these persons seems
ashamed of himself. At the time when the
luckless bargain was struck, S. Australia had
a firm offer from Private Enterprise to
build the line on the land-grant principle,
and the cash deposit was on offer, but the
Ministry unluckily decided to do business
with the Commonwealth instead. Possibly
it thought that Federal politicians in general
were and would be of the Deakin stamp.
Much argument is advanced that it would
pay to build a line from Bourke (N.S.W.)
through Western Queensland to the North,
joining up a number of Queensland railways
en route. However this may be, it is no
more excuse for breaking the agreement
with S. Australia than it would be for
burgling the house of W. W. Killen,
M.H.R.
The Barkly Tableland has a habit of
creeping into the argument as a place of
vast possibilities which the line through
West Queensland would alone make avail-
able. Mr. Killen, who is a bitter opponent
of the direct treaty line, speaks (B. 30/l/’29)
of “the fine tract of country on the Barkly
Tableland capable of carrying 7,000,000 or
8,000,000 sheep,” and draws a fierce com-
parison with “the poor sour country from
Pine Creek to Daly Waters.” It may be in-
ferred from this that the case absolutely
howls for a deviation of the railway straight
towards North Queensland.
As regards this tableland, “Philip’s
Atlas,” published since the war, places it
well inside Queensland, a little west of the
dead-end railway at Mount Cuthbert, and
adjacent to Cloncurry, Selwyn and Dobbyn,
all railway places. This is done twice. It
was of this region that the tale was recently
told of children aged five who had never
seen rain, but this may have been an exag-
geration. Various other atlases leave
Barkly out. The map facing page 350 (Vol.
II) of the “Australian Cyclopaedia”
puts the place in Queensland, and the one
facing page 215 plants it well inside the X.
Territory and close up to the Gulf. So does
the one facing page 484. The map facing
page 504 (Volume VIII) of “Chambers’
Encyclopaedia” shifts the Tableland back to
Queensland, and that in the N.S.W. Rail-
way Commissioners’ Report (1928) deposits
it right across the border line. Possibly it
is such an indefinite spot that they are all
more or less correct, but it is a pity that
a locality which can support seven or eight
million sheep, and which is quoted as a
reason for shifting a whole transcontinental
railway and dishonoring a sacred promise,
isn’t better fixed.
The Federal “Official Year Book”
describes it under the N. Territory:—
“The ‘Barkly Tableland’ appears to be
well defined only on its northern edge, where
it drops somewhat rapidly towards the coast.
Jt may be about 1100 feet high, and much of
its drainage flows into vast shallow basins
which become lakes in very wet seasons.”
That, including the inverted commas, is no


ALL SET.
“The Eleventh Commonwealth Parliament meets at Canberra to-day.”
great enthusiasm to spend on a shifty corner
which is allegedly capable of carrying as
many sheep as there are in South Aus. and
nearly as many as in all Westralia. What
strikes me as marvellous is why, when the
Tableland happens to be staying in Queens-
land, which appears to be the case a good
part of the time, the Queensland Government
doesn’t construct a short cheap extension
of one of its various adjacent railways and
lay both hands on the waiting riches. Per-
haps the explanation lies here. The South-
North railway, in its capacity of two incom-
plete fragments each stopping dead at a
stump, makes a loss concerning which W.
W. Killen is monstrously scornful, and the
amount of it in 1927 was £3lO per mile.
But in 1927 the loss on Queensland’s com-
plete railway system of 6302 miles was
£1,890,362, or just on £3OO per mile. It
was the 12th consecutive annual loss, and
the one last June was the 13th, and the
14th is in active preparation.
The Commonwealth wants a railway to
the northern coast, but it doesn’t want to
take it through a State with financial tradi-
tions of that sort—not for a drove of Table-
lands.
4
Another Black Mark Against Us.
An English party, mostly North-Country
manufacturers, visited South Africa to see
what sort of a field it was for British capital
and settlement. In Natal they were told
that, for people who could afford to wait
for a return, commercial forestry was the
best thing going. “The wattle plantations
that cover these Natal hills,” a member of
the party wrote in “South Africa Calling/
“form one of the strongest and most valu-
able industries in the country, and one that
owes nothing to Government assistance. It
has been established solely by Private
Enterprise at the cost of £7,000,000, and it
brings into annual circulation as much as
the fresh- and dried-fruits industries com-
bined. It is regarded by the Railway
Board as the fifth in importance in the
Union.”
The wattles that the tourist sa,w were,
of course, Australian wattles. Acacia dccur-
rens ( var. Tnollissima) , indigenous to Vic.,
N. S. Wales, S. Aus. and Tas., is the basis
of “the fifth most important industry m
the Union.” “Seeds of this tree,” as the
Commonwealth Statistician records, were
tried some years ago in South Africa and
thrived so well that plantations were made
in Natal.” And during the year in which
the trippers came and went, just on 3000
tons of Natal wattle-bark, valued for Cus-
toms purposes at £27,680, were despatched
to Australia!
This bringing of wattle-bark from a dis-
tant country to the home of the wattle
is perhaps the most mortifying chapter in
our economic history. Railing and repining
are useless, but as a self-respecting people
we ought to live the discreditable story
down.
♦
The Truth About Sugar.
When Sir Arthur Duckham, one of the
Big Four, said 10 sugar-mills could do all
Queensland’s 33 mills are now doing, and
Martens, M.H.R. for Herbert, said Duck-
ham did not understand the industiy he
was criticising, both were right; but Duck-
ham was rather more right than Martens.
Less than two years ago the State Govern-
ment actually ordered the immediate closure
of several of its own State mills notably
in Isis, Mackay, Bundaberg and Tully areas.
The outcry was dreadful, and rather than
that a few outer-circle cane farms should
relinquish sugar-growing on account of
the cost of carting to a distant mill, nearly
all the doomed mills were taken off the
Government’s hands by growers, the State
selling out at quittance rates and lending
the buyers the money for purchase. In the
meantime established big mills ran at a
little more than half-cock. Concentration
of milling is part of State sugar-policy; but
the State can’t afford to offend the sugar-
vote and nothing is pressed to a decision.
The industry not being governed by ordi-
nary commercial rules, there is no economic
pressure to overwhelm the vote.
When Sir Benjamin Morgan made his
earlier statement concerning Britain’s prob-
able readiness to contract with the Aus-
tralian sugar industry for many thousand
tons of sugar a year at a price, and to
concede quite £3 in duty-rebate to get it,
he said something more pungent—that
Queensland had no hope in the world of
creating an export trade for sugar produced
on the extravagant lines that were so
obvious to him as a sugar factor and in-
vestor. He «aw what Sir Arthur Duck-
ham saw later: that the industry was being
run well enough as a home-consumption
one, but more like a show-patch than a
great industry as far as world-competition
was concerned. Through quantity of pro-
duction, however, the sugar grower has
reached the point when world-competition
counts. His panacea is to produce less, and
thereby keep out of the embarrassing busi-
ness of world-competition. But the industry
has grown too big for that.
The Fagin Press.
The sensational press claims that the fierce
light it casts upon wrongdoers, or those it
chooses to consider wrongdoers, deters others
from going to the same extremes. The
exact contrary is probably the case. The
details of crimes published and the full
descriptions given of the means whereby
the guilty parties have been finally con-
victed are utilised by subsequent criminals
to their own advantage.
A striking case has been engaging atten-
tion in England. A man was found shot
from behind. The body was in a closed and
locked garage, but no trace of the bullet
which killed him could be found, though
it had evidently passed through his skull.
A few months previously the murderers of
a constable were convicted on the evidence
of the rifling marks on a bullet found in
the murdered man’s body, and the marks
made by the recoil of the shot on the brass
cartridge case, which was found near the
body. A pistol in the possession of the
suspected murderer produced similar marks
on bullet and cartridge case when a shot
was fired from it, and on that evidence
the murderer went to the gallows. For
years it has been known among those whose
business it is to deal with such things that
every firearm, and more especially every
rifled fiream, has its own idiosyncrasies as
plain to read by those w r ho know how to look
for them as the human thumb-print. The
trial referred to made it necessary that the
methods of ascertaining these idiosyncrasies
should be published in open court. They
were promptly broadcast by the sensational
journals, with the result that many a poten-
tial murderer was instructed how to avoid
hitherto unsuspected pitfalls.
The first-fruits of a new method of in-
struction in crime which bids fair to outdo
anything Fagin ever invented would seem to
have appeared in the garage murder just now
referred to. The bullet, usually present in
the body or close by, could not be traced.
A bloodstained hammer indicated that,
after he had shot his victim, the murderer
had shattered the skull in order to extract
the incriminating bullet. Similarly there
was no trace of the exploded cartridge case.
And there can be hardly a doubt that the
murderer’s covering of his tracks was due
to the instruction in such matters imparted
in the ill-judged press revelations.
The Menace of African Wool.
The Australian breeders and experts, so
called, who not long ago scoffed at the idea
of the South Africans competing with them
in their long-held market for merino wool are
beginning to wake to a sense of their
peril. There is even an idea penetrating
the political mentality that something
should really be done about preventing the
export of Australia’s prime stud sheep to
strengthen the S’African opposition, which
is already assuming such formidable dimen-
sions. Considering that this country would
be hopelessly bankrupt if it lost its hold
on the world’s wool markets it really is
about time something was done.
Thirty years ago the quantity, quality
and condition of the sheep from the Cape
to Pretoria was a jest to men accustomed
to the Australian flocks of those days. How
far matters have progressed since may
be judged by the estimate that for
the year ending June 30, 1929, South
Africa’s wool production will amount
to 285 million pounds, or 12 million
pounds more than for the same period
last year. Sheep in the Union at
the end of June last numbered just under
34 millions. Thirty years ago S’African wool
was rubbish, used for any odd purposes for
which inferior wools were required. To-
day some of the clips rank with the finest
Australian, and bring prices as good, while
they can be produced and marketed at a
cheaper rate.
In that cheapness lies the menace to the
Australian trade. The Kaffir, a herdsman
and flockmaster from time immemorial, is
plentiful, cheap and intelligent. From the
actual handling of the sheep to the baling
of its wool he is the chief operating factor.
And the presentment of the clip to
the market, once a subject for derision,
is now as perfect as careful supervision and
trained classing by white experts—mostly
educated in Australia—can make it.
♦
A Just Judge.
“Inner Temple”: In the many articles
which have been written about the Sal-
vation Army dispute a deed of splendid
altruism has passed unnoticed —that of
Justice Eve, who is doing his best to keep
the Army’s millions out of Chancery.
Chancery is much the same as it was
when Dickens dealt with the case of Jarn-
dyce v. Jarndyce. Litigants take a long
time to get out of it, and they leave a pro-
portionate amount of money there. A court
such as Justice Eve’s resembles that of a
minor royalty. He is its benevolent despot,
and his courtiers and close friends are those
who practise before him. No outside “silk”
can enter this rich little region, and juniors
have to fight their way across its well-
guarded frontiers. Once established, the
Chancery counsel trusts, and is trusted by,
his Judge, and each considers the other’s
interests in every way that honor allows.
By striving hard to keep the pickings from
30 millions sterling out of the fee-books of
W. A. Greene. K.C., and his little handful
of learned friends, Justice Eve would have
tried their loyalty as severely as the ruler
of a small principality who deprived its
business magnates of a supreme chance to
enrich themselves.
It is a remarkable example of what may
be called Bench statesmanship—an affirma-
tion of the principle that prestige may be
worth more than profit, and a lesson in the
way courts should be controlled. No suits
are deliberately spun out for profit before
judges of the Eve type. And, incidentally,
this pays counsel themselves in the long run
by diminishing the dread which most lay-
men have nowadays of going to law.
Maternity Hygiene.
Dear Bulletin, —“A to Z” (B. 30/l/’29)
gives expression to some pretty sentiment.
She contends, in short, that childbirth
should be Government-encouraged to occur
in the home. The chief argument in favor
of this is that “maternity is natural—it
is an instinct” which “functions best in
seclusion.” I have seen it function per-
fectly in a tramcar, but should be loath to
generalise from that fact. Unfortunately
death, too, is natural, and “left free Nature
and the woman” (and the infant) may quite
easily find a way out of this vale of suffer-
ing and sorrow.
Does “A to Z” realise that in too many
cases the only rest the mother gets from
kitchen chores and domestic drudgery is the
welcome fortnight or so she spends away
from the bosom of her clamoring family?
Does she realise that in many cases emer-
gency measures and apparatus are called for,
which are procurable only in a properly-
equipped institution? —Yours, S. N. R.
+
Dope.
“Si Anu” : Although Java has been stigma-
tised by the League of Nations as a transit
centre for the drug traffic, it has very little
problem of its own, the reason being that
opium is a Government monopoly and is
distributed to habitues under a system of
strict regulation and supervision. Even up
in the mountains one finds the little wayside
shops licensed to sell chandu ; and, although
there is some smuggling done over the
narrow straits from Bali, it is comparatively
slight because the accessibility of the drug
keeps the price down.
The Government tackles the hydra from
the other end. The school curriculum for
natives includes lectures on the dangers of
drug-taking, and textbooks are issued con-
taining luridly-illustrated stories of addicts
and how they brought physical and moral
ruin on themselves and social damnation
on their families. Considering how easy it
is to get all the known varieties of lingering
death in Australia despite restriction, the
Dutch method might be worth a trial.
»
Dost Labor Assets.
Labor, when it first became a political force
to be reckoned with in Australia, had several
assets which it has lost with the passing of
the years. It had able and far-sighted
leaders, a strong sense of patriotism, a clear
view of its aims, as much unity and discip-
line as is possible in a progressive party, a
high degree of self-respect and a reputation
for straightforwardness and honesty. It,
could face a crisis of any magnitude with
dignity and determination.
Things are different to-day. An industrial
upheaval such as the wharfies’ strike ex-
hibits in the ranks of what is supposed to
be an organised movement as much dissen-
sion, disunity, disobedience and scurrying
around at cross purposes as could happen if
all the leaders had dropped dead and all
the multifarious unions, federations and
councils had been abolished. Faced with the
prospect of a big strike at a most awkward
season, politically considered, the typical
Labor-leader of to-day invariably goes
through the same motions —all of them
wrong. First he yells “On with the strike!”
and does his best to make it as big as pos-
sible, threatening the community and the
Governments with dire reprisals if his “de-
mands” are not at once acceded to.
Scarcely a leader of Labor dare utter
a word of remonstrance when strikers make
violent attacks on workers. On the con-
trary, if any attempt is made to restrain the
zeal of unionist rioters there is an outpour-
ing of indignant protest. Not a single leader
of Labor in recent years has dared to express
the opinion that agreements should be
honored, that awards should be obeyed and
that a fair day’s work should be given for
a fair day’s wage.


Sot goad oil a I onr \
but
Not good spirit dloae
The Shell Pair-
This is the combination that gives maximum
power, and ensures a smooth-running engine.
SHELL MOTOR OILS are lubricating with com-
plete success every known type of motor engine.
SHELL MOTOR SPIRIT is the world’s standard
of quality.
OILS SHELL SPIRIT
The Quick Starting Pair
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
S567
POLITICAL
POINTS
The timber strike isn’t a very large affair
as strikes go, only a few thousand men being
involved, but the situation is typical. Saw-
milling has come down to being run at a
loss, or an almost invisible profit; neverthe-
less some small increases of pay were
awarded. That bit of the award was
accepted. Also it was ordered that the 44-
hours’ week should change to the old 48
hours. That was rejected following the usual
line that a judgment of the Court counts only
when the union bosses are pleased with it,
and that it is always possible for an indus-
try to meet any demands whether it is paying
or not. It is an evidence of faith in
the survival, after a mild form, of the age
of miracles, but it causes embarrassment.
Owen Dixon, K.C., has given up at
least £7OOO a year as a barrister to
Owen Dixon, K.C.
become a Jus-
tice of the High
Court at £3OOO a
year and he
should have at
least another quar-
ter of a century’s
work before him.
The salary is £5OO
a year less than
“Good old Piddo”
gets for spinning
words and blowing
bubbles in N. S.
Wales. The man
who has sacrificed
more than half his
income is probably
the greatest autho-
rity on Constitu-
tional law in Aus-
tralia. It is ex-
pected that he will
support Chief Jus-
tice Knox’s broad
interpretations of
our Constitution
Act.
. The U.S.A., which also went in for a
Government shipping line, is selling out by
degrees, the biggest liners going at about
£200,000 apiece. The price which Prime
Bruce got for some medium-sized
ships looks reasonable by comparison. Though
Uncle lost £25,000,000 in the last five years
he has little to regret compared with our-
selves. The ships were built in his own
yards, and were paid for with liis own money.
Ours were mostly built in British yards, and
the money was largely borrowed. So when
Uncle sells out he is done with the business.
We aren’t done with it, and our great-grand-
children probably will not be.
N.S.W. ex-Premier Lang, speaking at a
Labor conference at Orange, mentioned that
large interests in two Adelaide daily papers
had been bought by people who were also in-
terested in Melbourne Herald ; and how, he
asked, can you expect such people to be at
all concerned about the workng man! For
that matter, how can you expect it of the
Auburn house and land agent either? If a
man can be sympathetic towards Labor only
so long as he is getting a laborer’s pay, then
Lang’s special Parliamentary allowance as
leader of the Labor Opposition ought to be
stopped. And to make sure that a Labor
Premier is and remains the genuine article,
dyed in the wool and blown in the bottle, his
screw for the job should be fixed at no more
than the minimum wage.
Reports of the initial appearance of
George Durkin as leader of the Left Wing
in Queensland Labor brightened the A.W.U.
conference at Coolangatta. Durkin was an
A.W.U. branch secretary who fell out with
the machine. He appealed to the head
centre and was rebuffed ; he strove to stage
a breakaway but missed ; he had a shot at
a Parliamentary selection and slipped again.
Now he is trying the Left Wing as a for-
lorn hope.
John Huxham.
John Huxham’s
term as Queens-
land Agent-General
will expire in a
few months, and
people who don’t
like Premier Mc-
Cormack are say-
ing that he means
to confer the posi-
tion on himself. It
will be a pity if he
does, for he is only
50, and is capable
of serving Queens-
land more usefully
in Queensland, hav-
ing cleared a natu-
rally strong mind
of a lot of cant.
There is no return
ticket to politics
for Bananalanders
who take un their
quarters in the
Strand.
The Bright Red
section’s election
programme in Queensland includes a full basic
wage of £5 10s. per week for all toilers of
both sexes while unemployed or sick, the
cost to be shared by the employers and the
Government; a 40-hour week for all toilers
except miners, who are to work 30 hours
save when out of employment on full pay;
repeal of legislation against stop-work meet-
ings and the like; and the wiping out of
arbitration courts and all other interferences,
the settlement of industrial questions being
left to union secretaries. It would all be
quite feasible if the Bright Bed party could
get. control of both Federal Houses, and
begin an unlimited issue of paper money, as
Bussia and Germany did in their wildest
days. Any nominal wage can be paid in
paper money. The trouble is that it is
worth nothing.
Crusty John Allan, the Vic. Cocky chief,
told a gathering at Warragul that Premier
McPherson had thrown a spanner into the
machinery of non-Labor unity when he
formed an all-Nationalist Ministry instead
of a composite Cabinet, and that if McPher-
son’s legislation wasn’t satisfactory out it
would go and McPherson with it. The
reason why the Nat. leader did not ask
Allan’s group to come in was that a Nat-
Cocky Ministry wouldn’t have lasted a fort-
night ; Dunstan’s Country Progs, would have
seen to that. And then there would have
been no chance, as there is now—faint though
it may be —of the Cockies amalgamating
with the Progs. But McPherson refrained
from explaining the obvious through the
newspapers to the nettled Allan.
Opposition-leader Hogan (Vic.) is now
suggesting that McPherson misled Governor
Somers in saying (hat he had assurances of
support sufficient for him to carry on. Hogan
had four weeks in Parliament to demonstrate
that McPherson didn’t command a majority,
but every move he made to shift or discredit
the new Ministry (even the Moratorium Act
device on the last day) failed. However
much Allan may carp at McPherson, he
won’t shift the Hawthorn man to put back
Long Ned of Ballan.
A majority of the British Committee on
Trade and Industry has recommended a Pro-
tective tariff on iron and steel. In 1905
Britain had 345 blast furnaces at work
■while in 1925 the number was 141, so there
is room for a revival. Another big and
wholly unprotected British industry is the
manufacture of textiles. For some time the
manufacturers clamored for Protection while
the employees stuck to the old fiscal faith,
so nothing was done. Now the workers’
unions have put the old fiscal faith in the
fire, so something may be done.
In reply to criticisms, said to be
misguided and misdirected, by Westralia’s
Colebatch, Treasurer Page has explained that
the States can still get permission from the
Loan Cofincil to borrow separately in Lon-
don, and the Commonwealth will still guar-
antee principal and interest. It isn’t much
of a point. The really interesting question
is when will the interest guarantee come
home to roost? It is, first, a matter of a
State becoming sufficiently hard pressed, and,
second, of its growing accustomed to the
idea of throwing the responsibility on the
Commonwealth. The embarrassed State
might argue that it would be all in the family,
and if the example was taken up on the plea
that the relief should be general all the
family would be in it.
The output of coal on the Newcastle-
Maitland field last year is set down at
5,887,000 tons. That is a fall of 2,190,000
tons since 1924, and except for three of the
war years it is the worst since 1911. It is
explained that many of Newcastle’s foreign
customers were driven to the use of oil,
water-power and inferior local combustibles
when Fritz was interrupting business, but
as Newcastle’s output attained its maximum
five years after Fritz was out of the war-
god industry the explanation seems insuffi-
cient. The rise in average pit-mouth prices
from 11s. Sd. in 1918 to 18s. lOd. in 1920
is a likelier explanation, with irregularity
of supplies thrown in. The State Statis-
tician says that the increase of 11.10
per cent, in cost between 1911 and 1921 was
largely due to “awards of tribunals appointed
by the .Commonwealth Government during
the war period,” or, in other words, to well-
intentioned Welsh fuss.
Vic. Labor, failed to wrest the Castle-
maine-Kyneton seat from McPhairson’s
party, but polled very well. The National-
ists had a strong candidate in Langslow,
who is likely to go far, especially as the Vic.
Parliament is rather short of lawyers these
times.
In the Chinese tariff which has come into
force by arrangement with other countries,
Australia included, Ah Sin has followed
foreign precedent by trying to get as much
revenue as possible out of luxuries like
cigarettes and booze. There is a half-hearted
attempt to protect local industries, but low-
wage child and woman labor, being ineffi-
cient, needs a lot of protecting. High-
wage countries like Australia, provided they
work, have little to fear from the Celestial
tariff. It is other low-wage countries like
Japan that are likely to be affected. Signi-
ficantly, Nippon was the last to consent to
the new scales, and made a horribly wry
face when doing it.
Canberra was amused when it heard that
Percy Deane, now in
the Home Affairs De-
partment, was to be
secretary of the con-
ference about North
Australia, for all that
Percy knows about
North Australia could
be written on a visit-
ing-card and covered
with a strawberry
leaf. Still Minister
Abbott did not lack
for first-hand informa-
tion ; pastoralist-dele-
gates told him that
not a mile of tele-
graph line had been
built in the neglected
region for 40 years,
and that some of the
police-stations were
without telephones or
wireless, while the
dearth of doctors was
heart-rending. Yet the
Northern Terri-
tory has been under
Commonwealth con-
trol for 19 years, and
Percy Deane.
for 18 of those-years Pearce has been a Min-
ister. Abbott was all sympathy, but North
Australia needs action; it got barrels of
sympathy from Pearce.
The long-drawn-out argument as to
whether Garden Island, Sydney, belongs to
the Commonwealth or N. S. Wales has ended
in the Privy Council declaring it State pro-
perty. A good sheep-run could be taken up
and stocked for what the useless wrangle has
cost the people.
Napoleon 111. was so complicated in his
mental processes that, according to histor-
ians, nobody knew and nobody believed he
knew himself the exact reason of any impor-
tant act of his reign. He was the Apostle
of the Unexpected. Our S. M. Bruce resembles
him that lespect. Why, for instance,
did _S. M. Bruce send two powerless Com-
missioners to the Territory and at the same
time stop railway construction in North
Australia, or make a 3ft. 6in. line to Alice
Springs while preaching the uniform gauge,
or go in for house-building and road-making
schemes in the older States when money has
almost run dry? In short, why is he him-
self?
The R.S.L., one of
the few institutions
which no Government
seems able to nobble,
has fallen out with Gib-
son, the Postmaster-
General, over the dis-
missal of ex-Diggers
from his department.
About a hundred,
mos tly telephone
mechanics, have been
put off in Sydney alone,
and it is certainly
queer that so many
trained men should be
sacked from a service
which should be ex-
panding with th e
population when the
Government is spend-
ing money like water
o n road-construction
in the States, which is
not its job. It is ex-
pected that Gibson will
find it expedient to
appoint a board.
Postmaster-
General Gibson.
The trouble in Rabaul has led to Brig.-
Gen. Griffiths, who was Administrator a
few years ago, being commissioned to inquire
into the discontent with the regime of Ad-
ministrator Wisdom, also a Brig.-Gen. The
appointment was announced by Wisdom, and
the whole thing is-er-unusual; but Rabaul
is a place where unusual things are done.
The morning after the stop-work meeting of
natives an infuriated deputation of whites
going to interview the acting-Administrator
ran into the missionary whom they blamed
for the strike just as he was leaving the
Presence. Accounts of what happened vary.
The local press says the good man was
“intercepted” and forced to return. The
missionary says he “gladly” went back with
the deputation. It seems certain that the
deputation spoke of missionaries and jacks-
in-offiee in shocking terms, and pointedly
called attention to the fact that there was
a steamer about to leave for Australia. Then
it appears to have gone home and walloped
its repentant and returned coon with all
the ardor induced by years of compulsory
abstention.
Missionary influence is banged severely by
O’Kelly, P.M., and his associates on the
Commonwealth committee that inquired into
the shootings of blacks by police in Central
Australia. The committee found that the
blacks had grown truculent, and that un-
attached and inexperienced missionaries
“preaching the doctrine of equality” had
helped to make them so; and it emphati-
cally declared the shootings justified. As for
the yarn that the abos. were starving, it
satisfied itself by personal investigation that
there were ample supplies of native food and
water in. the alleged Dead Heart.
Westralia is coming in for attention from
eastern States politicians as well as eastern
States pastoralists and farm-seekers. Hogan,
when Vic. Premier, wanted to introduce the
tote on Westralian lines, with “straightout”
and “place” machines; and McPherson aspires
to give the State an Agricultural Bank
modelled on the useful institution that the
Forrest Government established. Dr. Arthur
discussing the financing of N.S.W. hospitals,
spoke admiringly of the Westralian Labor
plan for levying a special income-tax of IVI.
in the £ and making everybody pay. It
was pointed out to him with some asperity
that the N.S.W. income-tax had already been
raised, and that the endowment-tax would
have to be reimposed, claims being unex-
pectedly heavy; and he hurriedly explained
that he had not spoken for the Government.
Other members of the little doctor’s party
suggest as an alternative a tax on amuse-
ments costing from 9d. to 2s. s|d. That
is another Westralian device.
Two tiny girls were recently killed in the
Sydney suburb of Willoughby, a densely-
populated residential district. A two-year-
old toddler crossed the road, and her four-
year-old sister, seeing a motor-car bearing
down on the infant—it was daylight—rushed
to save her. Both were slain by a motor-car
the driver of which estimated his speed at
“20 to 25 miles an hour.” The verdict was
“accidental death.” There appears to be
no limitation on the speed at which cars
may be driven through thickly-populated resi-
dential districts, and no supervision of brak-
ing efficiency. If children get into the road-
way—well, they must be slaughtered. In
the case under discussion the mother of the
infants was lying sick, which, of course, was
very reprehensible.
TAKING NO CHANCES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At a meeting of the Country party district council
at Kyabram (Vic.), a motion was carried question-
ing the wisdom of endorsing the candidature of Mr.
Cook for Indi on any future occasion.”
He missed tlie ’bus, and raised thereby a
shindy,
Did in a good safe seat without excuse.
And earned thereby no end of wild and windy
Denunciation and deserved abuse.
What else could wait the Cook who cooked
at Indi
Effectively the Country party’s goose?
The gnawings of remorse ’twill scarce dispel
To feel his own is cooked for good as well.
His platform speeches were all writ’n and
waiting,
Packed with keen logic, partisanship hot
And, you may bet, some skilful perorating
About the struggling cocky’s toilsome lot.
Full armed lie seemed for combat. Nominat-
ing
Was the one thing material he forgot.
A circumstance that makes the future look
Not altogether promising for Cook.
Leal henchmen were in scores, and staunch
committees
Ready to roar approval while he banned
The greed and guile of those who herd in
cities
And glorified the chap upon the land.
He must have won hard-held. A thousand
pities
He dropped his bundle and boxed up his
hand
And set triumphant whooping Labor Czars
Invoking blessings on their lucky stars!
Scorn, condescending pity and derision
They poured upon his absent-mindedness
Who lost his side two votes on a division
For three long years, it may be. None the
less , '
It needs a somewhat pessimistic vision
To see a chap who would be apt to mess
A second time his Talk Shop chances thus
And twice incontinently miss the ’bus.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and its
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Windsor”: Litigation wouldn’t be so ex-
pensive if all court proceedings were as brief
as a maintenance case which was decided
in the Brunswick (Melb.) court the other
day. Hubby, a terse man with a sub-editor’s
outlook on word values, was the only party
to attend the court. Between the beak and
him ensued the following chatty dialogue:
“Well, what have you got to say for your-
self?” “Nothing.” “Where is your wife?”
“Not here.” “Did you see her at the court
this morning?” “Yes.” “Well, what did
she say to you?” “Nothing.” “What did
you say to her?” “I said, ‘Cut it out.”’
At this stage the beak observed that the
defendant “seemed to be a man of few
words” with a wife who “used even fewer.”
“And I,” he concluded pleasantly, “can be
shorter than either of you. Struck out.”
* * * *
“Waati”: How dangerous it is to
baulk or bilk a ship’s steward of his expected
tip was forcibly impressed on me when I
NEVER THE TWO TOGETHER.
“Why didn’t you get married, auntie?”
“I was looking for an ideal man.”
“And couldn’t you find one?”
“Yes, but he was looking for an ideal woman!"
made mv last trip from England to Aus-
tralia. The vessel made the usual call at
Colombo, where several passengers disem-
barked. Watching the process I suddenly
saw a steward carrying two heavy travelling
cases stumble and fall into the sea, haying
apparently collided with another steward on
the forward "ang-plank. The man was a
good swimmer and was soon rescued, but it
took a long time to salvage the soaked lug-
gage We were rounding the Leeuwin before
a whisper (or a warning) reached the smoke-
room that such an accident was liable to
happen at any time if a passenger neglected
to fittingly reward loving care. I suggested
the outrageousness of such a calumny to the
steward who had had the accident at
Colombo. He smiled in a non-committal
way and ventured the opinion that we should
make Port Adelaide at six o’clock on Thurs-
day morning.
!j! :> * *
“Narara” : Some couples reverse the pro-
verb about marrying in haste and repenting
at leisure. A young Sydney pair took each
other for better or worse at 2 and left
immediately for a honeymoon at Katoomba.
About 8 p.m. they entered a dance hall, and
there the wife met an old acquaintance.
When she had given him four dances in suc-
cession, hubby entered a protest, and a quiet
but determined row followed. The husband
left the dance hall, packed his clothes and
caught the first train to Sydney, going
straight to the home of his parents. Ihe
wife returned to her parents’ home the next
morning, and the estrangement, already a
matter of months, looks like being final.
* * * *
“Borom”: The Post Office didn’t always
disclaim all liability for mistakes in the
transmission of telegrams (B. 30/1/2J. In
1890 a well-known Sydney merchant, with
extensive timber interests on the North
Coast, sent to Sydney a wire which read,
or was intended to read: “Cannot leave.
Foreman drunk.” Unfortunately it arrived
reading; “Cannot leave forenoon. Drunk.
The sender happened to be one of the leading
lights of the temperance movement of the
day, and quite a furore was raised over the
message, which the recipient had shown to
dozens of people. The N.S.W. Post Office
made the amende honorable by solemnly de-
livering a fresh and corrected message and
paying the aggrieved merchant £25 for the
aspersion on his character.
* # * *
“Spare Corp.” ; One A.I.F. battalion had
a member who answered to the name ot
Aarons, though he looked much more like a
Kelly Having had previous army experi-
ence, he had altered his surname to make
sure of being at the top of the roll for pay-
calls and other routine events which usually
gave the Wilsons and Williamses cause to
fume. But even Aarons was not quite at the
top of the complete army roll. That position
was held by an Islander with the name ot
Aa.
* * # *
“Buna”: Something that every beach-
comber dreams of happened to a Maori-
lander, V. Subritzky, the other day, when
a lump of ambergris weighing nearly dOUoz.
appeared in his path awaiting ownership.
A few days later the same favorite of some
ocean god picked up a lump of 240 z. Ihe
Subritzky family are a well-known north
Maorilatid elan, and were at one time
owners of the small schooner Greyhound, a
beautiful little craft in much demand among
maritime artists and photographers. Llie
lucky member of the family first of all was
informed that his find was probably worth
£3OOO, but expert opinion, having regard to
the quality of the ambergris, puts the cash
value nearer £9OOO.
* * * *
“Sol Malaprop” : Great Britain lately had
an inclination to slap the ear of its one-time
ally the Portugoose, but unfortunately it fore-
bore. The matter concerned the arrest, con-
viction (it is said on wretched evidence, but
that is always liable to bo_ said) and im-
prisonment of a British ship’s officer at a
Portu-African seaport on a minor charge
of theft. The defendant spent 10 months
in a profoundly insanitary lock-up awaiting
trial, and then only got it with difficulty,
so there certainly is a grievance. It is a
way that kind of Greaser has. I was
once shown a face at the window in the
Portuguese settlement of Macao, and told
that it was a local postal official who had
been waiting trial for two years over a
matter of alleged shortage m the petty
cash. I hat was 16 ago, and so far
as I ortuguese law goes I suppose he may
be waiting yet.
Brilliant Deeps : The press announce-
ment that a 20-year-old American negro with
Byrd’s expedition is expected to be the first
negro at the South Pole reminds the writer
of an old Charters Towers identity who was
one of the lions of the big Queensland gold-
field in its heyday Six feet high and as
black as the Earl of Hell s riding boots, he
was a Jamaican, and fully impressed with
the fact that ho was a Briton, as all Jamai-
cans are. He was with Hugh Mosman’s
party which discovered the Towers, and
always claimed to have been the first of the
crowd to cross the big river from the banks
of which the curious “tors” which gave the
field its name were first spotted. "Yussuli,
was his invariable remark when a stranger
was introduced, “you see in me, suh. de firs
w’ite man to cross de Burdekin, suh.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: A cable printed last week
mentioned that Jerusalem was exploding in
peals of laughter over some story of
the discovery of the grave of King Solomon’s
favorite wife hav-
ing been taken
seriously by the
London press. To
anyone who, like
myself, absorbed
New Testament
atmosphere in his
receptive boyhood
there is something
utterly incongruous
in the association
of mirth of any
kind with the Holy
Land. Not that the
Jews as a race are
at all deficient in
humor, but I can
recall no instance
of anyone having
laughed at a joke
or even essayed one
in the Book from
which most of us
have formed our
ideas of Jerusalem,
and old iinnres-
sions die hard. I
only once met a
native of the
Sacred City. He
was an Armenian
and a miner on the
W.A. goldfields,
and I shall never
forget how he stag-
gered me when he
casually mentioned
that his narents
kept an oyster-shop,
much frequented by
the young bloods
of the district,
within coo-ee of the
Mount of Olives. It.
took me a long
time before I could
get used to the
notion of Jeru-
salemites eating
bivalves on the
half-shell, to the
accompaniment of
Irish stout; but I
suppose there is no
reason why they
shouldn’t, or even
laugh uproariously
at jokes. It may even be that an up-to-date
comic paper or a screaming revue would go
as well in Jerusalem nowadays as in tans
or Prague. But there seems something
almost akin to desecration in the idea. _
* * * *
“Avril”: If the “Tree of Knowledge” in
Hyde Park is the haunt of the controversial
(B 30/l/’29) the “Wishing Tree in Syd-
ney’s Botanic Gardens (alleged to be dying)
has for a century attracted the romantically
inclined. Three peregrinations around the
bole, runs the ancient tradition, and you
may wish with a good heart. Nearly all
the candidates for the favors of the old tree
are in the flapper category, and to save
time they often circle the trunk m batches
of half a dozen. But it was to a solitary
and obviously embarrassed damsel who
paused irresolutely as he appeared, that
the Cheerful Loafer gave some pertinent ad-
vice. “Don’t mind me, Missy, said he,
genially. “Git on with yer wishm . If yer
don’t ’e’ll ’ave another girl be the time
yer through. I was young meself once.
* * * *
“P.M.": A young larrikin farmhand ( once
explained to me the technique of the “king
hit” (B. 23/l/’29). He came home from the
township, and announced that
a bloke at the billiard-room had
called him a bad name, and he
king-hitted him. “Wliat’s that?”
I asked. “A sitting-shot,” he
replied. “And what is that?”
“A side-wallop.” “And what
the blazes is that?” “Well, Boss,
it’s this way. When a bloke
calls yer a blankard, yer pre-
tends ter look frightened and
walks’ past ’im. Just as yer
passin’ yer wangs ’im on ther
jaw. Then yer brings yer knee
quick as lightnin’ up inter ’is
bread-basket. Then yer grabs
yer 'at and ’op-’arries afore ’e comes round.”
* * * *
“Wang”: The other morning I told off
one of our Council’s outdoor hands to re-
move a dog that had been run over and
killed. It had been reported to me as lying
in a cul-de-sac off Blank-street, and half
jocularly I asked him if lie knew what a
cul-de-sac was. “Cripes, boss,” he said, in
hurt tones, “where d’yer think me brains
is?” About an hour later he came back
and reported the failure of his mission.
“I’ve been up an’ down th’ whole length of
Blank-street, boss,” he insisted, “and there
ain’t no dead dog lyin’ there, and there ain’t
no colored sack lying there either; all I
could find was this ’ere ole gunny-bag.’
When I had explained matters a little more
fully, he went off growling that th’ blanky
Council would soon be -wantin flamin
university perfessers t’ drive its blarsted
carts.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: A thriving industry and the
enterprise of ambitious youth were nipped
in the bud when an old lady shrieked and
pointed out to the police a small boy in an
apparently precarious position outside one
of the tallest buildings in Collins-street. He
was so small that the two constables who
went after him lost him several times before
they effected a compulsory rescue. Therp
was no more disgusted captain of industry
in Melbourne than the youngster when he
was brought back to earth. He was the
senior member of a firm which, specialises
in lifting live pigeons out of their nests for
the local Chinese market, which pays them
ninepence a bird. They operate when offices
are shut, and how they get to the tops of
some of the edifices is a mystery jealously
guarded by the brotherhood.
* * * *
“Ter”: Last term at Sydney University,
distinguished Scotsman was lecturing to a
crowded class on Shakspeare’s 'Henry
VIII.,” and had just begun to quote from
the scene in York Place, where Henry meets
CREATE NO NUISANCE.
RENA: “Yes, Agnes was there with her lot and Florrie with her
three—oh, what a nuisance babies are at a wedding!”
ROSA: “Yes, darling. When I send out the invitations for mine
I shall have printed in the corner ‘No babies.’”
Anne Boleyn for the first time. Suddenly
the doors of the lecture : room opened and a
charming co-ed. walked in. quite 10 minutes
late, and tripped to her place past the high
desk behind which the Professor stood. Ihe
latter, not noticing her entry, was just giving
full dramatic emphasis to Henry’s words.
“By Heavens! She is a dainty one. Sweet-
hear-r-rt” —came the fervent Scotch burr
from the dais. The roar of appreciation from
the class drowned the next words, but when
a lull came and the Professor was found to
have arrived at the passage:
I were unmannerly to take you out,
And not to kiss you,
it broke out again in a manner temporarily
fatal to all discipline.
* * * *
“Hamer” : A suicide who might have pro-
fitably given more attention to his sweep
tickets (B. 23/l/’29) passed out in Sydney
about five years ago. The explanation he
left for misusing his razor was that lie was
tired of poverty, and could not see a finan-
cial ray ahead of him. After the inquest
a relative went through his papers and
found a ticket which entitled the deceased
to second prize in a big sweep, drawn two
days previously. The result-slip of another
consultation, lying with the ticket, explained
the fatal mistake.
“Uramao”: While Perry’s Circus was
travelling across the Buller Gorge to the
West Coast the cage containing the lions
slipped off the lorry and rolled down the
cliff towards the river. Fortunately some
trees caught the cage and held it and still
more fortunately the cage remained intact.
Half a dozen lions seeking what they might
devour in the impenetrable bush country of
the West Coast would have kept Fernlanders
awake for many a night.
ALL YESTERDAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Yesterday, day-through,
By no breezes fanned,
Heaved a sluggish sea,
Gasped a stricken land.
In the hot, still air,
Since the morning broke,
All along the coast
Ilung a haze of smoke.
Over shoal and reef,
Seeking weedy caves,
Gleaming brassily,
Shoreward rolled tired waves.
Void of life was all,
Far as eye could view;
Ne’er a porpoise romped,
Ne’er a sea-bird flew.
Dim of rail and spar,
Wan of hull and mast,
Up and down the coast
Ghostly vessels passed.
Rippled by no wind,
Broken by no fin,
Sluggishly the tide
Wandered out and in.
Haunting shore-side trees,
Muted and unstirred,
Lurked shy sylvan folk,
Feathered folk and furred.
Voiceless was the thrush,
Voiceless finch and wren,
Pouring forth no more
Songs beloved of men.
Yesterday, day-long,
’Neath a burthen dire,
Lay a smoke-hazed sea,
Lay a land on fire.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
THE LATEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sir Gerald du Maurier, doyen of actor-managers,
sighs in the English press for the return of the Jane
Austen woman-type.
When burgled flats have ceased to be sen-
sations.
And stolen jewels fail to snare a par;
When pink and mauve-magenta suit
“creations”
No more are obvious hall-marks of a star:
When night-club queens, their record-dossiers
shady
With fines and gaolings, have the nerve
to snatch
The notoriety a leading lady
Once garnered from the stage-ct<m-
peerage match;
What is our Roscius, threatened with the
shelf.
To do to draw attention to himself?
Postcards are out; the movie and the wire-
less
Have stripped the grateful glamor from
the pro.;
In ingenuity however tireless
He’s fairly beat for puff-stuff that will
go!
When public taste is practically sated
With damsels’ knees exposed to public
view
And tresses into close-cropped heads trans-
lated
A manager must dig up something new,
Or obsolete enough to look that way,
Like crinolines from sainted grandma’s day.
N.s.w.
COPABELEA.


“P.M.”: I saw many R.C. and C.
of E. padres smoking during the war, but
even the military uniform did not break
Nonconformists into the habit. The only
Methodist parson I ever saw smoke was the
late Billy Richards, and that was after he
had been turned down as a padre and joined
the Flying Corps. He had a spell in hos-
pital in 1918, and, being unfit to go back to
France, they made him a chaplain. We
met him in London just after the Armistice,
and one of the boys held out a cigarette-
case. “No, thank you, brother,” said Billy.
“I have returned to the Fold.”
“C.”: There are no bars in gone-wet Can-
berra, but the carrying out of the beer-
garden idea has been rotten. One of the cafes
has been established at deserted Manuka,
where an arcade was. decorated with tables
and shrubs in pots and the announcement
made that strong waters were procurable.
There are four attendants, and the cus-
tomers are said to have totalled nine one
busy day. At Eastlake a roaring trade is
being done in a barn-like structure with a
long counter and a lot of tables spread
about. You buy a bottle and, collaring a
couple of glasses, sit down and absorb it.
Most of the drunks who have been
arrested have been picked up from
WITH NOTHING AT ALL TO DO.
SOULFUL OLD PARTY: “And where
was my darling in all the wasted
years of my life?”
HIS DARLING: “I don’t know—l sup-
pose I was just waiting about to
be born.”
amongst the shrubberies of the Garden City,
but the police don’t look too hard, for once
a man is arrested he has to be transported
three miles to the old German concentration
camp cells, and next morning the John lias
to take his charge nine miles into Quean-
beyan to face the beak. Weekly takings at
the cafes are said to run to over £1000: all
handled at Kingston and Civic Centre, for
Manuka does not return the cost of cork-
screws.
* -1: * *
“Light Horse”: The cables announce that
Colonel T. E. Lawrence, “the uncrowned
king of the Hedjaz,” as his publicity agents
were wont to term him. has been returned by
the British Government from the n.-w. front-,
ier of India, where he has been serving as a
mechanic in the R.A.F. It is added that the
ex-King-cim-Colonel “refused” to land at
Marseilles and went on with the boat to
London. As a member of the rank and file
he had doubtfully any choice in the matter.
There is probably no greater bluff in the
history of the war than the Lawrence myth.
The little Orientalist had two factors to
ensure his success—his knowledge of -Arabic
and unfailing supplies of British gold fur-
nished him for distribution among the Arabs.
A hundred men in the British regular ser-
vices knew Arabic as well as Lawrence, and,
given the funds, could have bribed as lavishly.
The Arab, especially the Bedouin, will do
anything for money. As a soldier he proved
beneath contempt. As an ally, beyond a
little rail-cutting and long-distance skir-
mishing, he was negligible. His “alliance”
with Britain was a fine gesture to the rest
of the world, and it must have been a
dashed expensive one.
* * * *
“Ilamer”: The 120-year-old church of St.
Enoch's at Ebenezer on the Ilawkesbury
(B. 30/l/2'-9) is probably the only place
of worship in Australia which regularly
witnesses boat-funerals. From the reaches,
bends and inlets of the river the old God’s
Acre is most handily reached by water. Four
rowers, with muffled oars, propel the craft
which tows the "hearse-boat” ; and the pro-
cession often stretches for hundreds of yards,
for the families which originally built the
church have spread themselves all along the
river. Even at the ordinary services the little
sandy beach below the church is full of the
parked boats of worshippers.
* * $
“Shep” : At Retaliation Farm, near Ypres,
a liop-over was planned to push the Ger-
mans off the ridge which overlooked our
positions. It was timed to take place at
dawn, and by a trick of fate the heads on
the other side of No Man’s Land had picked
the same time to attack our front line. The
coming of daylight found our infantry lay-
ing in the mud in front of our barbed-wire
ready to charge when our barrage lifted. At
the same time the Germans were taking up
similar positions, ready to follow up their
own curtain of shellfire. The two barrages
came practically together, and both worked
havoc with the entanglements. Weight of
numbers in men and artillery were in our
favor, and our objects were attained, but
the light fog lifted to a strange sight. The
preparations for attack were like an open
book. Just in front of the twisted remains
of the hastily-prepared wire-entanglements
that had protected the rival trenches were
the lines of khaki and grey, casualties of the
barrages, lying where they had awaited with-
out shelter their respective signals to
advance.
* * *
“Bloggs”: A youthful crook whose evi-
dence against Dick Uavill, the ex-champion
swimmer, was dismissed by a Sydney magis-
trate last week as “unworthy of credence,”
admitted in cross-examination that he “some-
times went under the name of Pitt-Rivers.”
Pressed for a reason, he registered the em-
barrassment of an aristocrat of delicate feel-
ings, and said that lie “preferred not to dis-
cuss what was a painful family matter.”
For some inexplicable reason Australia —the
one country in the world where rank matters
hardly at all —is the happiest hunting-ground
for impostors of this type. I knew one
who claimed, with quiet pride, to be the
illegitimate son of an aged earl whose char-
acter is blameless, and who does not seem
to have visited Australia. The reputed vic-
tim of the earl’s passion had admittedly
never left Melbourne, where he was born.
Another of these eccentrics, now dead, was
named Bolton, and he used to talk of “my
dear old uncle Lord Bolton” in apparent
ignorance of the fact that if this peer were
his uncle his own name would be Orde-
Powlett. I fancy that many of these frauds
get to believe their own stories in time; and
if they marry they persuade their wives to
believe them and thereby found “overseas
branches” of well-known British families
* * *
“M.G.S.”: According to the cables Field-
Marshall von Ludendorf is the leader of a
movement calling upon all good Germans to
renounce Christianity and revert to the old
pagan gods. If the idea should meet with
popular approval it will no doubt be carried
out with Teutonic thoroughness, and some
picturesque customs should be revived. The
pagan religion involved the worship of trees.
Anybody who dared to peel off tire bark of
a standing tree had his navel cut out and
nailed to the wound he had made. Then
he was driven round and round until—but
is it necessary to go on? Pagan Germanism
was as bloody in its tastes as the religion
of Deutschland liber Alles which received a
temporary setback in 1918. Still it might
be awkward if the worship of Odin was
really revived. Amongst his victims were
kings. Unsuccessful monarehs were not
allowed to escape into neutral territory and
ALL PREPARED.
MISTRESS (after engaging maid): “Pm sure you won’t find me an unreasonable mistress.
As regards evenings out, Pm quite prepared to meet you.”
MAID: “That’ll be all right, Mum. I got a boy friend who’ll see me ’ome.”
publish their memoirs. They could, how-
ever, buy themselves off by annually sacri-
ficing a Crown Prince. One king, named
Aun, was thus able to survive for nine
years.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The police in Horsham (Vic.)
recently had their legs pulled by a local
licensee. Happening to pass the hotel
after hours in a car, they caught sight of
Boniface in the very act of handing two
bottles of beer to a couple of men. A smart
capture of the men and the incriminating
evidence was made and things began to look
bad for the publican. They looked worse
when the case for the prosecution had been
concluded in court. At this point the
magistrate ordered the bottles to be uncorked
and upended. Distilled water ran out.
❖ ❖ *
“Mulgo” : Sydney never fails to make out-
cry when taps go dry for a few hours or
the use of sprinklers on lawns is forbidden.
I remember, a few years ago, when Bourke
went dry, with a shade temperature running
to 120. The nearest water was a big hole
in the Darling, about six miles away. Cart-
ing was impossible for most families; horses
were poor on account of the drought, or
away on agistment. So the residents set to
work and dug a channel, tffree feet wide,
along the dry bed to run the remnant of
their river towards the town for household
use. After the fluid reached its iournev’s
end it had to be carried up the bank. At
the present time. Tarrawingee, west of
Broken Hill, is having water carried to it
by tram. I was in that part during a pre-
vious dry-out, when the allowance for per-
sonal ablutions was a pint a day. A grimy
person had a dry-blow before applying the
moisture; others saved up the daily allow-
ance through the week for a limited bath
on Sundays. There was a time in Broken
Hill itself when drinking water was 325, Od.
a hundred gallons—and a good deal of it
sand and dust at that.
x * * *
“Frigid”: “Mullarula” (B. 12/12/’2B)
questions if there is any place in Australia
where rain has not fallen for 12 months.
There is a family of seven children spend-
ing a holiday at Redcliffe (Q.). They came
from beyond Julia Creek, in the Far West,
■where the crows fly backwards. Rain lias not
fallen at their home since the night the
eldest girl was born seven years ago ! This
family obtained its -water from bores. They
were much excited when, a few weeks ago,
it rained at Redcliffe. They were under
the impression that rain occurred only in
fairy tales. Often their mother had told the
kiddies what rain was like, but she had
almost forgotten the sound of it herself.
“P.X.”: I have never met even a three-
year-old youngster who didn’t know what
rain was; but in the West Darling I have
met ducklings who were so unused to water
that they all got cramp and unanimously
turned up their toes when enough rain fell
to make a few puddles. And several of
the old ducks followed suit.
He H* ❖ ❖
“Exon”: One of the best Irish bulls on
record, and perhaps as well authenticated as
any of Boyle Roche’s, was the result of a
judicial error. It was in the days' when
one Pennefather was C.J. of the distressful
isle —he left a descendant who almost
reached the Bench in W.A. —and with two
colleagues, the senior of them named Bali,
was hearing an intricate appeal case. After
days of wearisome argument, the C.J. at
last delivered his finding at considerable
length. Ball followed, differing from his
chief on almost every important point, and
giving abundant reasons for differing from
him. When Ball had finished it was obvious
that the decision would rest with the third
Judge, but that gentleman was found to have
been lulled to sleep by his colleagues’ dron-
ing voices. The C.J. nudged him into con-
sciousness a little ill-teuiperedly. The sleeper
awoke, grasped what was expected of him
and decided to take a chance, for it was the
rarest thing in the world for Ball to set his
opinion up against the chief’s. So “I agree
with my brother Pennefather,” he announced
solemnly and sonorously, “for the reasons
given by my brother Ball”!
* * * *
“Venturino”: The committee of school
management at Ecclefechan, the Scottish
village where Carlyle was born, recently
demurred to a village schoolmaster’s appli-
cation for the provision of a bath at his
residence, because it w’ould mean an increase
of “saxpenee” in the rates. Still, similar
things are liable to happen in countries
where water is even more of a necessity.
Not so long ago when I asked the South
Australian Education Department to supply
a bath for my school residence (where a
former teacher had built a bathroom) my
request was refused, it not being the policy
of the Department “to supply baths where
water was not laid on.” And, anyway, the
Ecclefechan people eventually granted the
Scottish dominie’s request, whereas the S.A.
Department never relented in my case,
though it required me to give regular lessons
on cleanliness.
* * * *
About a Royal health-resort:—
Bognor, where the King will recuperate, is the
most striking example I know of England’s genius
for making the seaside loathsome. An odd thing
about the town is that it is surrounded by ancient
loveliness. Go a few miles in one direction and
you reach Chichester, dreaming almost as unblemished
as Canterbury beneath its Cathedral spires ; or you
can travel a mile or so in another direction and
find Goodwood and the most exquisite stretch of
heavily-wooded park land in Britain.
Bognor might be inhabited by a different race
of people. From its outer semi-circle of jerry-built
cottages it looks past one of the most hideous
asphalt “fronts” on earth, over a usually grey and
muddy expanse of water. - A greyish beach, inter-
sected by dozens of wooden barriers, is frequented
during the summer by bored tourists and their
children. In the winter it and the town are
desolately empty. Bognor’s only industries are
hotel and boarding-house keeping and room-letting,
and the architecture is en suite. Margate, which,
like Bognor, has a salubrious climate, is equally
unpicturesque, but then its surroundings are also
abominable. The journey to Bognor, by road or
train—through Guildford, and past Arundel, Pet-
worth House and other show places—is like one of
those glittering careers which end in sudden disaster.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The most revealing confession of
class-distinction amongst motorists ever made
was written and signed at a Melbourne
suburban police court by an advertising man-
ager, arrested for hitting another car and
then refusing to stop when pursued. Refer-
ring to his failure to pull up, a failure which
involved a long chase and ended in a blind
street, he said: “A motorist approaching
from the rear was sounding his horn. I
looked round to see if it was an inferior make
of car, and so had no right to pass me. Then
I accelerated and left it.” The statement
reminds me of the remark of another motor-
ist, when a man who lived in the same street
became the possessor of a car. “Until Jones
did that,” he pronounced, “you couldn’t have
said where he stood in the social scale. But
now he’s bought a Ford.”
* * * *
“Si Anu” : Apropos the Colonel Light cele-
brations mentioned in a recent Bulletin,
there is a sentimental link between Adelaide
and the Malayan city of Penang. While Wil-
liam Light was still a boy, his father, Sir
Francis Light, was busily engaged in carv-
ing a new empire for the East India com-
pany out of the Malay Peninsula. The island
of Penang was then only the resort of pirates
and fishermen, but with the same sureness
of judgment which the son was to display
elsewhere later on, Light, sen., saw that
here was the site for a great port and market.
At considerable personal risk he got the con-
cession from the neighboring and somnolent
Sultan of Kedah, in return for helping him
in a lethal argument with the Siamese.
Under British protection, Penang’s prosperity
rose like a flood, and to-day its only rival
in those parts is Singapore. It has an
excellent port in which the Emden sank a
French and a Russian warship just before
attending her own funeral at Cocos. The
house where Colonel Light played as a boy
still stands. It has recently been turned
into an Anglo-Chinese school by the Metho-
• dists.
“I MUST CULTIVATE MY GARDEN.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was old, in years more stricken than I
thought a man could be,
But I got on well with Grandp&re, and he
took a like to me.
And I often have a fancy that I see him
once again,
See him Aveeding in his garden in the village
of Bohain.
He was frail and somewhat shaky as he
pottered round hjs plants,
And his legs were like two splinters running
through liis baggy pants.
But it was a short-lived triumph that the
strongest weed could gain
In the garden of old Grandpere, in the village
of Bohain.
I knew little of his language; he knew rather
less of mine,
But we understood each other—when we'd
had sufficient wine.
And the lesson of the ages he would ever
make more plain
As he labored in his garden in the village of
Bohain.
“II fant cultiver notre jardin,” and his hoe
would rise and fall.
“Yes, too right you must,” I’d tell him, “or
the weeds will cover all.”
Never more determined fighter till his foes
were deftly slain
Than old Grandpfere in his garden in the
village of Bohain.
There are times I wonder if the veteran’s
working days are done,
If the garden that he cherished has by weeds
been overrun.
But, among all war’s grim memories, still
his slogan I retain :
I must cultivate my garden—as he did in
far Bohain.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


trove I b
\
' m
9
*
m !
U
X
•MSS,
X
»* «
:/ /
"“H by fib//
\
\y
5 Mo
yce
Padujin
guv
> ru y x
"V
*. 3 %'
/ Sx
ih
*<
X
MSp&fe
41
vv ; X
\y w \
ssSE^
r «y
r~
■sswwiw*.
■V-.,.
SMITH &
JULIUS
STUDIOS
„
m
■
hO
&
*


HI
t\S**te to ZkM- &.
atnnuK
°X
BLUNTON
»
The Comfort
Collar.
A stiff collar —popular
peaked style—but with
points rounded to prevent
rubbing through your
shirts. Cool—lightweight
add curved in front to
stand out from the neck.
Perfect fit and easy pas-
sage of your tie are
guaranteed !
An “Arrow” Collar
1/9 each; 20/- d ox.
ENGAGEMENT RINGS
120
HHI
vs.
120
m&m
mm
€2O
VIKCI
Fine diamonds in pure platinum settings, in 18ct .
gold rings.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS L TD
25-25 HUNTER ST
fixe (Diciest JeweULe/vi/ House cn Sydney
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Osherotel, Sydney.’*
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Death came to Albert Bruntnell, the
N.S.W. Chief Secretary, while he was hav-
ing a few days’ spell from the office. He
had been off color and worried for weeks,
but there was nothing to suggest that his
condition would take a turn so tragic—lie
was the victim of a heart seizure. Born in.
Wales 62 years ago, Bruntnell was a Sal-
A. J. ROBERTS, president of the S. Aus.
Lawn Tennis Association, who has been
host to the competitors in the Aus-
tralian Lawn Tennis Championships in
Adelaide. Mr. Roberts, a sharebroker,
was himself a crack player once.
vation Army officer for many years, serving
in Victoria, Queensland and Maoriland as
well as N. S. Wales. Already he was a
“Brig.-General,” and had he stuck and lived
he must have been in the running for the
succession to Gen. Booth. Subsequently he
did well in business as a Sydney estate agent,
but when he took to politics he had to con-
tend with the prejudice against Salv’army
men which was broken down during the
war. In his own sphere he helped to break
it down himself by dint of a sterling char-
acter, a broad humanity and' a humor that
was effective on the platform, though sugges-
tive at times of outspread flags and flaring
lamps. Bruntnell just missed being named
successor to George Fuller as leader of the
State Nationalists; but Bavin, who got the
odd vote that was to make him Premier, had
no more loyal supporter. Neither has N. S.
\\ ales had a more devoted Minister of Edu-
cation.
Just-dead Bruntnell entered the N.S.W.
Parliament in 1906, succeeding Dr. Jimmy
Graham as member for Surry Hills; John
Norton, of Truth, was tlie defeated can-
didate, and tremendous was the shock to
John. It was bad enough to be licked; to
be licked by an cx-Brigadier of tlie Salv’army
was unbearable. Bruntnell went up against
J. R. Dacey in Alexandria at the next elec-
tion, but found Dacey too strong. He got
back in 1910 as member for Annandale.
transferred to Parramatta in 1916. and was
M. for that district—it was part of a
three-member electorate for seven years—till
the end.
Owen Dixon, appointed to succeed the late
Justice Higgins on the High Court bench, is
only 42. He has the typical forensic face,
and might pass for a brother of Attorney-
General Latham. He has had a brilliant
career at the Melbourne Bar, at which ho
has practised for just on 19 years, with an
interval of five or six months as Actine-
Justice of the Vic. Supreme Court, and he
has handled several cases before the Privy
Council. Born at Hawthorn, he went to
Hawthorn College and thence to Melbourne
Uni., of which lie is M.A. and LL.B.
Portion of Owen Dixon’s extensive prac-
tice will go to Bob Menzies, who lias not
been many paces behind Dixon at the Bar.
Fortune has been smiling on Menzies re-
cently; lie gained a seat in the Uppah Cham-
bah and a place in the McPherson Cabinet,
and lie is to take silk soon. Brother F. G.
Menzies is Vic. Crown Solicitor. Their dad
was a storekeeper at Jeparit, in the Malice,
and M.L.A. for Lowan for several years.
Wilfred Greene, K.C., who has been
briefed by General Booth’s lawyers in the
litigation with the High Council, is one of
the few leaders of the London Bar who did
brilliantly in the war. He left a growing
practice in 1914, and was in the line as
a very junior subaltern before the end of
the year. He finished up as a much-deco-
rated G. 5.0.2. At 45 he is the head of the
Chancery' Bar. and the most youthful-look-
ing “silk” in England.
A very interesting chapter of Westralian
history is recalled by the death of Brother
Benigno at New Norcia. He was the last
of the 43 Spanish brothers brought out by-
Bishop Salvado in 1569 to found the famous
monastery. Twenty-two years old then, he
spent the rest of his life in the West.
A link with Australia’s only naval battle
snapped when Captain Norman Leslie, re-
tired, died at Surrey Hills (Vic.) the other
day. His ship, the Clan Grant, was sunk
by the Emdcn shortly before the Sydney
sank her.
Hr. Watson, of “Historical Records” cele-
brity, is to be the elected member of the
Federal Capital Commission; and it is signi-
ficant that the historian is a keen critic of
Bruce. He owns Gungahleen, one of the
properties in the Capital area that were
not resumed by the Commonwealth. A
Sydneysider, he is a son of the James Wat-
son who was Treasurer of N. S. Wales for
five years, 1878-S3.
Castlemaine has provided three Vic. Pre-
miers. Service was its member when lie
headed the Great Coalition (1883-86) ; he
had previously represented Maldon,- now part
of the Castlemaine-Kyneton electorate. Then
came J. B. Patterson (1893-94) and Lawson
(1918-24), who holds the record for the
longest continuous term as first Minister.
H. N. Southwell, who has died at Malta
while seeking health, wound up a long, use-
ful, varied life as a sort of official host at
Australia House in London. For 20 years
he was a successful State-school teacher in
N. S. Wales, finishing at Paddington, and
during that time he taught shoals of young-
sters to swim and almost as many to r>lay a
good game of cricket. Then he was at Paling’s
as concert manager, and so drifted on to journ-
alism—for some time he was the Evening
News’s man in London. Born to help others
and never happy unless he was doing it,
during the war he added thousands to the
thousands of friends be had alreadv’.
“Fleet Street” : Harry Southwell—Norbert
to his old associates of the N.S.W. State
school service—was the best-known member
of the Australian colony in London for the
past 10 years. He sat at the desjj in the
so-called library of Australia House (a
gloomy mausoleum containing newspaper-
files which are a magnet for every lonely
Australian or Maorilander in the met-
ropolis) and radiated welcome and helpful-
ness. He had a wonderful memory for names,
faces and achievements, the soothing manner
of a successful doctor and a tall, smiling
grey-bearded and altogether pleasing appear-
ance. His closing years were clouded with
but one real regret—that Australian papers
Would keep on gibing at Australia House,
to which he gave the passionate loyalty that
be extended to every institution or individual
that he became associated with.
Like Isaacs. J., Cohen, K.C., Vic. Minister
for Education, writes shorthand. When
Isaacs was Vic. Attorney-General, depart-
mental scribes were often indebted to him for
notes of speeches on ceremonial occasions.
Cohen is also a former State Attorney-
General.
Dr. Riley, Archbishop of Perth, who may
have to resign owing to ill-health, was the
author of the most telling rebuke that has
been levelled at Australia’s prohibitionists
by a leader of the church. “The misfortune
is,” he told an Anglican Synod meeting at
ARCHBISHOP RILEY, of Perth.
Perth, “that these people began to think that
not excess but the tiling itself was the evil,
with the result that they invented new sins.”
The broad-minded and big-hearted old man is
just on 75. He was hard hit by the death
of his journalist-son Basil in China.
Australia is about to be visited by a man
who has written what is regarded in Europe
as one of the most important works on
Binghi without having seen a solitary living
specimen. He is Geza Rolieim, a young
Hungarian ethnologist with a perfect know-
ledge of English, who five years ago pub-
lished "Australian Totemism,” an attempt
to unravel the unconscious mind of the abo.
and explain his habits and customs accord-
ing to the theories of Freud. Roheim’s book
presented some surprising conclusions over
which European psychologists have been
arguing ever since. He is coming here partly
to meet the abo. in his native haunts and
partly to meet Dr. Basedow, M.L.A., of
Adelaide, whose native lore, obtained first-
hand in Central and North Australia, gave
Rolieim the raw material for his monumental
work.
Reggie Argyle, who used to be member for
Kyneton and then for Dalliousie in Vic.
Assembly, now hangs out at Bayswater, at
the foot of Mt. Dandenong, where he finds
intense culture less exacting than dairying
and helping to manage a butter factory, os
he did at Kyneton. Reggie was a success-
ful Whip, and was invited to become an
honorary Minister in 1914, but the job did
not appeal to him. He is about 10 years
older than liis brother Stanley, the present
Chief Sec. Both visited the old town the
other day, and were given a big welcome at
a Hospital Sunday demonstration. Their dad
was a settler when the hospital was founded
7o years ago; he got some of the masons who
put in the foundations of Parliament House,
Melbourne, to build liis home. That was in
’55.
h orty-odd years ago two steady-going
brothel's, Bill and Tom Longworth, were
working a coalmine at Singleton (N.S.W.),
and presently joined forces with a local
solicitor named Albert Gould, who owned
another little coalmine. The Eongwortlis
reckoned their coal would make fine coke:
but in those days the men who ran smelters
alleged that Australian coke wasn’t and
couldn’t possibly be any good, so the Single-
ton miners failed to find a market. They
decided that if nobody else would use their
coke they must use it themselves: so they
looked around for a mine, and got the Great
Cobar, first on tribute and then, with some
outside help, as their own. George Blake-
more managed it for them for years and
finally helped them to sell it. The last of
the Longworths, William, died a few months
ago, and his will was lodged for probate last
week. He left £363,363, most of it to re-
lations, but he remembered scores of old
friends of his hard-working days, and directed
that £5 a week be paid for 10 years to the
Little Sisters of the Poor at Randwiek and
“an annuity of £260 to Miss Pavel for her
care and attention as nurse.” Not many
Nightingales have the luck to strike that
sort of patient.
Justice Avory, who presided at the trial
of the “night club queen” last week, lias a
knack of getting into the limelight by way
of causes ceUbrcs. He tried the Gutteridge
murderers; Patrick Mahon, who slew his
sweetheart; Vaquier, the poisoner ; and many
other desperadoes. Hobbs, the blackmailer,
has reason to regret his presence on the
Bench, and so had Captain Peter Wright
in his suit against Lord Gladstone. Avory
used to be senior counsel to tin; Treasury,
and he is deadly in his own quiet, tight-
lipped way once lie forms an opinion on the
merits of a case. His sentences are invari-
ably severe. More than one English Judge
would have given Mrs. Meyrick imprison-
ment in the second division instead of the
dreaded hard labor.
A great barracker for Newcastle in the
N. S. Wales Leg. Council was Dr. 11. M.
Doyle, who died the other day, aged 70.
He was a native of Ballan (Vic.), son of
a Port Phillip pioneer, and as a young man
battled through his medical course in Lon-
don with money earned as a freelance press-
man, subsequently practising for seven years
in the East End. lie became superintendent
of the Newcastle Hospital 38 years ago; and
when, in 1912, the first N.S.W. Labor Gov-
ernment decided to strengthen its party re-
presentation in the Uppish House, he was
included in the batch of nominations. Dr.
Doyle was in nearly everything at: Newcastle,
and the local racing club will miss his advo-
cacy.
Besides being the most exciting of the
Australian serials which The Bulletin
secured for publication this year, “A Rogue
in Amber” will be the best illustrated. Percy
Lindsay was chosen for the job, and he has
produced a set of which even the versatile
Lindsay family ought to be very, proud. To
help readers visualise the story Mr. Lindsay
has produced, besides the ordinary illustra-
tions, a little gallery of principal characters
which will be unveiled as the plot thickens.
And in “A Rogue in Amber” you are prac-
tically in the thick of tire story within three
minutes of the opening. You won't get the
vivid writing of “Coonardoo” or the beau-
tiful word-pictures you will get presently in
“The Quarter-master”; but you will get a
well-worked-out plot and half a dozen very
interesting characters.
Justice Cussen (Vic.) has gone to Colombo
for a couple of months. His learned brother
Mann will then have a seven months’ lioli-
HARRY AT MO RE,
the new Minister of
Education in
Maoriland.
day. From Nov.
1 to Aug. 31,
1930. Cusse n
will be on leave
again—part of
the reward for
cons olidating
the Vic. stat-
utes for the
second time. It
is expected that
he will be voted
£2500 equiva-
lent to a year’s
salary—n e x t
P a rliamentary
session.
“Esau”; Sixteen years ago, according to
information laid before a Judge at Bris-
bane, there died in that city an archi-
tect named Wilson, who left nothing,
not even a will. His sons applied a few days
ago for probate of his non-existent estate,
and explained that their father had told them
that his father had told him that he was
Sir George Wilson, the only son of the 6th
Duke of Argyll, whose own name was Camp-
bell, and that at the age of 18, when not
legally old enough to do business, he signed
a document under pressure or compulsion
assigning his birthright to some party not
clearly specified. The Court refused the
application, there being no perceptible estate
save the right to the Scottish dukery. I have
myself a better claim than that if the law
would only consider it. An ancestor and
namesake of mine transferred his birthright
under pressure to a party named Jacob. I
am thus the rightful owner of the bag and
the book, the short odds, the three balls and
the shixty per shent. If a syndicate will
take the matter up I am prepared to offer
favorable terms.
STEP BY STEP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It is expected that Mr. Theodore will be
elected deputy leader of tlie Labor party in place
of Mr. Blakeley, who narrowly defeated him for the
job a year ago.”
High and higher you clamber, pursuant
No doubt to a laudable aim,
O Ted, with the tongue that is fluent.
The stocky and well-set-up frame.
All things, ’tis by proverb contended,
Arrive for the chap who can wait,
And at worst, Ted, you’ve never descended
To crashing the gate.
When Herbert denied you the bacon
You craved and by Nott you were beat,
Did your clamor the echoes awaken
For someone to cede you a seat?
Nay, you just gave a shrug of the shoulder
And took no precipitate step.
A year or two, younger or older—
What odds to a Rep.?
So you waited, for patience a spider,
A sleeker Mieawber for pose,
Till Mahony backed an outsider
And broke a round dozen of Mo’s—
Or hit the financial Aunt Sally
In some way that memory obscures
And courts seldom fathom—and Dailey,
Hey presto ! was yours.
How little they knew you, my Tlieo,
Who thought you would promptly efface
The Charltons and Scullins, like Leo
Puts weaklier beasts in their place.
Not roaring, but purring, old codger,
Your way to the tree-top you climb.
My oath ! You were always a snodger
For biding your time!
Sound sense! Men had carped at you shrilly
Had you gone at one bound to the head,
O tribune from calm Kirribilli,
O wily and opulent Ted.
Each rung of the ladder above you
You test before upwards you skip.
You know there’s no blunder, Lord love you!
Like rushing the kip.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


’IDE!
“The A.W.U. has refused to be represented at 'the Peace-in-Industry Conference, believing that concessions will be asked of Labor.”
BILL: Cripes, Bob, women have got a ’ide, ain’t they? Here’s my old woman wantin’ me to go down the street with her so’s to give her a hand with the kids.”
Poverty
Point
“Spokesliave” : The most unusual spruiker
in Melbourne is a man who plies his cus-
tomarily raucous trade in front of a cinema
in Bourke-street. He is known as the Con-
fidential Spruiker. He is an old actor who
has lost his voice and is absolutely inaudible
until you get within a couple of feet of
him. Apparently his uniqueness is regarded
as an asset by the management. One day
he was pacing to and fro, seemingly talking
to himself, when a drunken sailor arrived.
After vainly trying to catch what he was
saying, the puzzled tar went up close and
applying his lips to the spruiker’s ear,
bawled, “ ’Ere. who the do you think
you are, anyway, yer blinkin’ impostor?”
The aged histrion never altered his gait or
his voice, but in the same intimate whisper
went on, “You blue nose, if you don’t
get out quick. I’ll well knock your
head off your shoulders. Come on,
ladies and gentlemen, plenty of room. Tom
Mix in Two-Gun Pete, and the coolest
theatre in the city!”
“Nakhoda”: In connection with “Victory,”
the tropical drama now at Melbourne Royal,
and purely with a desire to be helpful, I
proffer producer Gregan McMahon the fol-
lowing suggestions. Books that have been
years in the tropics don’t look as fresh and
bright as if they had been ordered from the
theatrical props, store last week. They get
so mildewed that their covers drop off. By
one of the pleasing inconsistencies of Eng-
lish spelling, the Chinese name Wang isn’t
pronounced “Wang,” but “Wong.” “Mem
puteh” is nonsense. “Mem” means “white
lady,” so “Mem puteh” means “white, white
lady.” “Mem” alone is the correct form.
In the last act Lena is supposed to don a
Malay sarong for purposes of concealment.
A black European drape is not a sarong , nor
does it confer invisibility when the wearer
has Margaret Bannerman’s snow-white skin.
These details may appear of no importance,
but it is the attention to them which made
the productions of Leon Gordon (“White
Cargo”) and Dion Boucicault (“The
Letter”) a technical delight.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : J. C. Williamsons
have struck a rich patch here with “The
Patsy” ; the audiences at the Apollo Theatre
are growing in size and enthusiasm. Helen
Ford, the leading lady, leaped right into the
public’s heart, and the critics, after fitting
her with a radiant halo, have found time to
go into raptures over her beautiful hands.
George Tallis, as an explorer for youthful
talent to enrich the Australian stage, has
been much in the limelight. After the one-
time exclusive fashion of the American even-
ing press, the London papers have very
elaborately declared that the fresh-com-
plexioned Tallis is more than a millionaire
in pounds sterling.
“Spokesliave”: While poor old legitimate
drama in Melbourne is going round in a
borrowed shirt, the movie princes are spend-
ing money like mad. The Regent and the
State Theatre are racing each other towards
completion. There is a certain amount of
taste and refinement in the appearance of
the Regent, but the State looks like an
Oriental fantasy by an inebriated Oscar
Asche. The Regent, which is actually two
theatres, one having been hollowed out of the
solid rock, claimsj to have the largest seating
accommodation in Australia, while the State
claims to be the one on which most money
has been spent. On the State 600 to ffOO
men have been working night and day, Sun-
days included, for months, and some of the
laborers are making £23 a week. It is on
the site of the old Bulletin office. If
dramatic-critic Edmund Fisher could return
to the scene of his old activities he would
get the shock of his life.
“L.H.P.”: History repeats itself. Dion
Boucicault the younger’s tirade against Aus-
tralian stage conditions recalls that his
father Dion, after a very successful Aus-
tralian tour in 1885. could not blackguard
us enough. One of his complaints was that
he was indifferently supported, a silly im-
peachment, considering th e Triumvirate sup-
plied him with such fine artists as Geo.
Titheradge, H. H. Vincent, Herbert Flem-
ming. W. 11. Leake and Agnes Thomas. J.
C. Williamson, in a very dignified reply
through the press, pointed out that Bouci-
cault had tried to get many of his Austra-
lian supporting artists to accompany him
back to U.S.A.. so evidently they were not
such sticks, after all. J.C.W. wound up
by hoping the trip across the calm Pacific
would soothe Dion’s nerves, and bring hirn
back to a normal state of mind.
“C.R.”: Marie Bremner’s substitution for
Virginia Perry in the leading role of “The
Desert Song” is a tardy recognition by the
Firm of the rare qualities of an exceptional
local youngster. She is a product of the
Albert-street Con. in Melbourne, where she
won the Melba scholarship. The Dame’s
eagle ear soon picked her out, and Nellie
has since pursued her career with stimulating
interest. She got her first opening in grand
opera, but Melba considered hers was the
lighter but often more difficult sphere of
musicomedy. She graduated into “The
Maid of the Mountains” co., and later
appeared in “The Rady of the Rose,” “The
Street Singer” and “Rose Marie.” Then
she served the usual long apprenticeship to
imported stars, understudying Harriet Ben-
net for two years and Virginia Perry for
the present run of “The Desert Song.” Her
chance has come with the departure of that
inadequate lady for England, Home and
Beauty. It has been deserved for a long
time.
“Cine Ma”: After attending fii’st nights
at a leading Melbourne filmery for a while
I discovered that, as far as I could see, the
same seats were always occupied by the
same people. Desiring a change of human
scenery, I transferred to Monday, and the
result was no different. They were another
lot of people, but they always seemed to be
there on Mondays. Then I tried Tuesday
and Wednesday and so on up to Friday.
Making inquiries of the manager, I
learnt that fully half the house is booked
up every week by regular first-nighters,
second-nighters, third-nighters, etc., and that
the order was so consistent that lie could
tell the day of the week by glancing round
his audience. What governs their choice —•
industrial or social conditions or merely
habit?
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Nora McManus, who
was given a chance at the tail-end of “The
Girl Friend” season in Sydney when Annie
Croft was resting a hurt foot, is an Auck-
land girl who deserves a permanent lead
somewhere. She deputised for Marie Burke
in “Frasquita” and for Maggie Jarvis in
“Whirled into Happiness,” and she shaped
particularly well in her latest appearance.
“Goldilocks”: The sudden close-down at
Sydney Grand Opera House is another
example of the risks run in keeping a show
going in the dull weeks before Christmas.
It was then that the likeable Billy Russell
hit his bad patch ; there was a large dead
horse on the premises before the “Dick Whit-
tington” panto started.
“Hamfat” : Boucicault numbers among his
many foibles an aversion to having anybody
but those actually concerned present at a
rehearsal. “Oh, but I am Muriel Starr,”
said the only occupant of the auditorium of
the King’s Theatre, Melbourne, when one
day Boucicault had announced that he could
not proceed with rehearsal until “the people
in the stalls have been good enough to with-
draw.” “At any other time I would be
pleased to meet you, Miss—er—Starr,” said
Boucicault icily“but whilst that may be
fT u na “ e ’ thl * , 1S my relloal ' s “ L nd tho
lady had to withdraw—very indignantly.
“Hamfat” : Ashton Jarry, who goes back
to sketches on the Tivoli circuit after
years ’ travelling in drama with Thurston
, T u t> t. 7 , ~ . . ~ , .
Ball, G. B. Post and Moscovitcn is the only
niummer in Australia who can claim to have
appeared with Sarah Bernhardt. lie was
lel \ la London performance of
Cyrano de Bergerac.
“Cin e Ma”: “Cellor” says (B. 16/l/’29)
that “ ‘Cine Ala,’ like many another who has
. TJ r> • ~, • „
m Poverty Point on the talkies,
* °* a “
mol ' e disreputable ' When he set liisVeci-
P, itate I''' ll to P a P er he obviously had noticed
ot’talSJ whc'f’l remarked" on “the
SEff’inJT "wT.ich'^
sound is not photographed on the celluloid
along with the picture. Hence, if the speech
is tampered with, something will have to be
done with the visual part of a performance,
I wonder if “Cellor” knows as much about
the movietone as the depth of his scorn
implies. I saw the first try-outs of that
type of squawkie over four years ago and
had studied the electrical side of it for years,
“Krishna” : Tell “Cine Ma” (B. 16/l/’29)
Biat t j ie pi ous Hindu hopped into picture
production long ago, utilising the wealth of
na (-j V e legend lying ready to his hand. A
co p y 0 f Forward, one of the leading papers
pr j* ted for Hiud^s in EngUslli is before me,
the adver ti sil ig includes notices of half
a dozen films of the kind, some of them
run ning to eight reels. I have been getting
the p < a J er off ° and on for a couple of years
past, and the industry seems to have been
going strong prior to that. As to the pro-
posed screening of the Maliabharata which
“Qine Ma” announces, one can only hope
that the censor keeps his eyes peeled on the
Australian edition, if one ever comes this
way . There are a good many incidents in
that famous saga upon which even Holly-
wood wou i d abstain from rushing,
, ~ TT „ . ... . ,
“Lysander”: U.S.A. films appear to be
run by one big studio, with one great pool
0 f “props.” and in one great set of blinkers,
Someone invented or discovered a tribe of
Navajo Indians, and from Beery-Hatton to
“The Covered Waggon” we have had Navajos.
The same with a circus—a dozen films, from
(jbaplin to Jannings, have featured rings and
big-tops. Already the Jordan has been
crossed twice in quite different movies, and
next we may expect every crucifixion in his-
tory and legend to be filmed in order that
“The King of Kings” “sets’ shall not be.
wasted. “Lost World’" monsters have had a
second run; ape-men are almost a drug in
the market, and a. series of pictures with
the “Chang” motif is threatened.
THE AMACHORE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Yes, ’e ’as been upon the stage;
I saw ’im playing in The Door’;
And yet,” she said with aspect sage,
“I think Vs jest an amachore.”
My landlady here shook her head,
As one well-grounded in “idears.”
‘‘lt may be as you say,” she said,
“That ’e’s been playin’ many years;
“But that proves nothin’. As Old Jupp,
The press gave ’im a word or two;
The critics ’oo ’ave writ ’im up
Were amachores, most likely, too.
“’E’s jest an amachore.” “But why?”
I asked, of patience quite bereft.
“ ’E stayed with me,” she made reply.
“An’ paid ’is bill before ’e left.”
N.s.w.
HAMFAT.


A
E
«&S #
li#*?
S 3
U/o>-
f?v.
L
r
- -- .««•' «li L,—-r^-r-
a-Clr x:
«g. X\ .MMr
v 7! ( 'xPliL'
>\s?
$x
u
•-X '£*. XXLL& ETC
r«
X
if. 4 :,
7?
tv
‘
r
BP 1
W\> ‘ . >
\V"'"
KK
ss
Sslsss
m
5 *
x/
L
ir
s\
!%
XXX -X
s>
S
IS
SI
>S
I M
>Xx5
*\\ “’X!|lk \- -'S i
i X-' -XX. I . !
XX
X;
IW,
• i»
! i 'X «
CL
X
l y»,m.
ia L I L I Xlx i, .\
liK
7111
Mt*\
xxy\\
1 L XX
ii^ifrXr
• ntmrrr
«!;
a
IBS
3m
me
c^
r :
m
m :l .
4DE
I[;;jj
r
Ssf
a\
- '
A-
'- ': S .
: Xds
HAMPION RESERVE
PORT
*s»
BY THE makers :
Shomas HARDY &SONS LIMITED
i n MDE MELBOURNE & sv^._
5
. J) <*> * 9/
-"’'hi
_ f ,a|OE MELBOURNE & SYDm
'^ P !oUTH AUSTRALIAN W| N e
•'
Ey
Li
1 PINT 6 FLUID 02s
ft
s3E2
\
ssi:
N£~
Fortunate Tintara
GOLD-tinted by the rays of a happy sun,
the broad vinefields of Tintara smile
and gladden to a rich success. The repu-
tation of Hardy’s renowned Tintara wines
was, year after year, built here. The dominat-
ing factors of purity and excellence which have
placed Hardy’s Champion Reserve Wines
(Gold Label) on a plane of their own were
created on the glowing fields of Tintara. When
you call for Hardy’s Gold Label wines you
know that 80 years ago age was given to this
fine vintage—age which gives every advantage
to an organisation that to-day can supply the
very finest wines at a price within the reach
of all. At this season of the year every home
should possess Hardy’s wines, and no present
would be more appreciated than a bottle or
case of Hardy’s Champion Reserve Gold Label
Wines.
Procurable in all Hotels and Licensed
Stores where the proprietors are
proud to specialise in high-grade
wines.


THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Convenient
—L-
m
IS
2? IF
At " The Australia ” you are in the heart of
everything—time and travelling alike are saved
you.
This sketch from the promenade roof shows four
well-known Banking Houses, also the Tourist
Bureau offices and the clock tower of the G.P.O.
(chime silent during night hours).
Stay at "The Australia” and you will ap-
preciate its notable convenience.
Wireless, Cable and Telegraphic
Address : "Austraotel, Sydney”
Capital Paid-up, £422,100.
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH
SYDNEY.
The
Australia
sd
<33
cen/ne of o<-/f>ens/onc/<s
c//'shngu/sheet Soc/o/ Life.
twwm
Wotd
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Hit the Deck”
Criterion “The Patsy’’
Royal (com. Saturday) “The Wrecker”
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Desert Song”
Royal ; “Victory”
King’s “White Cargo”
New Comedy “Pigs”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt’S Moving Pictures
♦—
“Pigs” is “Pigs.” It is also “The Patsy,”
“The Family Upstairs” and a dozen of its
predecessors all shuffled together and then
dealt out again—the same cards in a different
combination. Its chief claim to originality
is that it has a male Cinderella. It also
has a female one. But this isn’t a play on
Lesbianism —they marry and no doubt
quarrel happily ever after.
If “Pigs,” now at Melbourne Comedy, had
to pass through the Customs, the declaration
would run something like this: “Comedy,
domestic, middle-class American ; containing
one white-haired father secretly oppressed
by the knowledge that he will not be able
to meet the interest on the mortgage; one
loving and understanding mother, who brings
suspicion on herself, but saves the situation
by pawning her engagement ring; one
superior elder brother, who gets the largest
serving of the family pie until the last act,
when the despised younger brother proves lo
have all the enterprise and brains and be-
comes the saviour of the household; one
heroine, whose apparent simplicity masks
the intellect of a superwoman; one low-
comedy uncle with booze habits; one shrew-
ish grandma; and sundries.”
“Pigs” may not inflict as much wear and
tear on Comedy’s carpet as “The Patsy” did
on the King’s, but it is an engaging enter-
tainment all the same. Alan Bunco, as ihe
young man who buys 250 swine, miraculously
cures them of an obscure disease and sells
them at a surprising profit, is one of the most
tolerable juvenile leads this page has seen
lately. His acting is so quiet and natural that
at times it hardly seems to be acting at all.
That it is acting, and superlative acting at
that, is borne in on the spectator when he
has to transfer his attention to the stilted
histrionics of Reginald Newsori or John
Fernside’s raging farce. The same may be
said of George Henry Trader as “pupper,”
though lie sometimes carries naturalism a
ELMA GIBBS, who lately carried on charmingly in Irene Homer's
place in “The Patsy” for over a week.
trifle too far—so far that at times the lis-
tener has to pinch himself to remember that
he is not eavesdropping on a real-life con-
versation. but waiting the development of
a stage plot.
Ruth Nugent is the feminine Patsy of the
piece. The type must now be as familiar to
students of theatricals as. Jock Garden’s
smile. Miss Nugent does it all very well,
from the arch gurgles of infantile astonish-
ment at the behavior of this wicked world
to the pathetically defenceless legs. Bertha
Riccardo and Gertrude Augarde give vigorous
impersonations of youth and age. The play
is unprecedented for the number of Austra-
lians in the cast —John Fernside and eight
pigs from Hutton’s.
¥
Marie Bremner, the Melbourne girl now
Margoting in “The Desert Song” at His
Majesty’s in place of Virginia Perry, the
English star, brings a fresh and light soprano,
pure in tone and accurately on the note, to
bear on the P. C. Wren story of the romantic
French girl who Avent slieiking in the Moroc-
can Never-Never. Any faults that may he
found in Marie’s acting may be debited to
an apprenticeship in Williamson’s choruses,
not exactly forcing-houses of talent. At any
rate, her innocent sincerity shines whitely
amidst the somewhat garish world, of Riffs,
Foreign Legionaries and harem ladies created
by those great musical (and financial)
geniuses, Lawrence Schwab. Sigmund Rom-
berg, Otto Harbach and Oscar llammer-
stein 11. Another innovation is Renee
Murphy, who has taken the part of the
quaintly angular, drily funny Lorna Helms,
that lady having gone to get married. Miss
Murphy possibly hasn’t as much individuality
as Miss Helms, but she is such an excellent
carbon copy, physically and otherwise, that
if there is a deficiency it isn’t noticeable.
There are several other changes, but The
Bulletin would sooner find room for the
names of the anonymous and magnificent
male chorus.
* * *
After to-morrow (Thursday) night the
honeyed story of Francois Villon called “The
Vagabond King” will vacate Sydney Her
Majesty’s. A day or so later the company
heads off for Maoriland, and if the Firm s
professed intention of sending it away at
full strength is adhered to, M.L. will see a
really first-class show, and there will be some
thundering transport bills to meet. The
chorus caps 100, there are at least a dozen
leading names in the cast of principals and
a dozen more that are fairly well known.
The show is the best musical and spectacular
piece seen around the Harbor in years; it
has been produced quite as effectively as
the best of the Williamson-Melba operas.
Its music, of course, is much more rough
and tumble than those entertainments held ;
but as musicomedy goes it is very good, and
it is well sung, chiefly by Strella Wilson
and James Liddy. Its closing week or so
has seen a young Sydney girl, Rene Linton,
making a name for herself in second lead;
the opportunity
was provided by
the illness of
Mabel Gibson.
This week-end
the “Hit the Deck”
players cross over
from Sydney Royal
to Her Majesty’s,
leaving the Castle-
reagh-street house
clear for the Gar-
roll thriller “The
Wrecker,” which
was penned by the
author of “The
Ghost Train.” The
piece introduces
Josephine Wilson
and Clayton
Greene. The Royal
will then be the
second Harborside
theatre in which
the Carrolls have
an interest. They
have done deserved-
ly well at the
Palace with the
excellent comedy
“The Family Up-
stairs,” which also
comes off at the
end of this week,
Leona Hogarth,
Wyrlie Birch and
other of its leading
people will try out
“New Brooms” at
the same address
on Saturday. “The
Patsy,” at the Cri-
terion, shows no
sign of quitting. It
has topped 150 per-
formances, and the
demand is still
sound and steady.
The talkies continue to crowd Sydney
Prince Edward, Regent and Lyceum. The
Lyceum, where the vitaphone is used, has
had quite the best of things in length of
run so far. “The Jazz Singer,” a good
picture apart from the novelty of self-
accompaniment, was first screened there six
weeks ago, beginning a talkie season which
seems to he still going as strong as ever.
The business is several times better than it
looks at a glance, too, for the Lyceum is
running no less than four performances a day.
Similar conditions prevail at the other
two theatres. The Prince Edward has
already had a few weeks’ run out of a good
programme which includes the interesting
“Street Angel” and the amusing Bernard
Shaw appearance. At the Regent you can
hear “the Royal Voice of his Majesty King
George V.,” as the advertisements have it.
and there, is also a well-balanced bill of
talkies. New offerings in the silent houses
include “Docks of New York” and “The
Cameraman,” a t
the Capitol; “Pay
as You Enter” and
“How to Manage
Women,” at the
Crystal Palace;
“I. os t in the
Arctic” and “The
Divine Sinner,” at
the Hyamarket;
“Pay as Yo u
Enter” and “The
Glorious Trail,” at
the Lyric.
* *
The van of the
1020 virtuosi pro-
cession is heralded
in the advance an-
nouncements fo r
the Erika Morini
concerts at Sydney
Town Ilall, “The
Chief Fairy of the
Violin,” the “great-
est living woman
violinist” and the
“feminine Heifetz.”
as she has been
variously call ed.
makes her first
appearance on
April 4. The State
Orchestra will esup-
port her in subse-
quent concerts.
* *
Th e A-g ra d e
band contest decid-
ed at Sydney
Sports Ground last
week was won by
Bondi Beach Con-
cert Band, only a
point better than
Hamilton Citizens’,
with Westmead
Old Boys’ third and Wontliaggi Union
fourth. The Beach brass-blowers were well
conducted by James Compton and the
Hamilton Citizens’ by J. J. Kelly.
Fullers last week saw the usual mixture
of sketch and vaudeville presented to an
accustomed audience by Mo and his fellow
wanderers in the wilderness of more or less
comical inconsequence. The most soul-
shaking event of Saturday’s performance
was the rendering of a vocal solo by Mo, the
first within the memory of living man,
though those who listened to it were not
surprised to hear that it was the first. New-
comers to the bill are Mayo Hunter and
Gladys, who, in an acceptable act, portray
that sort of South Sea Island paradise
which never was by sea or land.
* * *
After having been only middling for
several weeks, Sydney Tivoli livened a lot
last week. There is still nothing outstanding
in the show, but the even bill has plenty of
variety and interest in it. The Canadian
cowboy brass-blowers and rope-heavers still
led when this Showman last looked in.
Jane Dillon, who impersonates the male sex
with something between sympathy and malice
was still slightly the best of the others, with
Sammy Shields not far behind her as an
artist and a furlong or two ahead as a
laugh-maker. He has a free-flowing stream
of Scotch yarns with only a few chestnuts
among ’em. Another good laugh-merchant
is Jack Stocks, female-hater, who has had an
unusually long run. Clyde and Yvette were
the names under which a couple hopped
through some neat dances, a line of enter-
tainment also exploited by Garrett, a lad
well worth inspecting. As is usual with the
Tiv., the dance turns didn’t stop at the mere
two; there were several others, including a
clever pair of simultaneous workers, who
call themselves the Fallow Twins. Altogether
quite a passable bill.
Tlie new State Theatre in Melbourne is
nothing if not original. The old-fashioned
spruiker with the voice, like the ghost of
Hamlet’s father is no more as far as it is
concerned. In his place arrives the ideal
hostess. She is being offered £lO per week,
with a six months’ guarantee, to represent
it at dinners and other functions, and to re-
ceive its daily hordes of guests. Sim is to be
unmarried, exquisitely beautiful, the posses-
sor of a perfect voice, faultless deportment,
a flawless figure and never-failing tact.
Approximately 200,000 Victorian girls are
expected to apply.
Melbourne Tiv. is at present engaged with
Horam and Myrtill, as clean and dainty a
pair as have ever visited the local boards,
though what they say with their legs is
mainly platitude. Hector St. Clair is back
with his violin and some of the jokes with
which Noah whiled away the tedium of the
Flood ; also the Angelos, one of whom turns
three somersaults and then lands on the
shoulders of a pyramid composed of his three
friends. Vera Wooton, “the Irresistible
Comedienne,” makes a first appearance.
MAY RIGBY, one of the numerous party in “Hit the Deck.”
Whoever invented that title for her is an
invincible optimist.
* * *
Local managements made a liar of this
paper by announcing that “The Wrecker”
would be transferred from the Melbourne
Athenaeum to the Palace. The gory mystery
drama is now reported to be en route for
Sydney. The arrangement whereby “Beauty
and the Beast” vacates the Palace for the
Bijou still stands, apparently.
Of current amusement in Melbourne
“White Cargo” at the King's is best, although
one local critic described it as melodrama.
“Victory” at the Royal is just plain punk,
although the same critic hailed it as drama.
It is not only melodrama, but dull melo-
drama at that; and the production, attri-
buted to Gregan McMahon, is something to
be regretted, except for portion of the first
act. The advts.. of “Rio Rita” at the Prin-
cess still announce Gladys Moncrieff as. the
star, but a second inspection of the Mexican
imbroglio confirms this paper’s, original
apprehension that Gladys is a luminary that,
has got into the wrong constellation—the
“Great Bare.” Janette Gilmore continues
to look as fresh and delightful as if she
had come off the ice a minute before.
* * ¥
Guy Hastings as the silly ass and Dora
Mostyn as the really comic spinster get
most chances in “The Ghost Train” at
Adelaide Royal. The thrills go as well as
ever in this revival. Cold, damp evenings
liave tended to force Humphrey
jolly out-door show in-doors. The York is
very American, with Reginald Denny fight-
ing, and Chester Conklin as one of the
strange underpads of that land. Mabel
Poulton is good in a British film at Won-
dergraph, but the support mostly over-acts.
The Pav. has a battle of the sexes, which
always draws the picture “fan.” and the
Regent has a really good bill —-“Hangman’s
House” in Ireland,' Fairbanks in the Andes,
Cade’s violin, and clever performing dogs.
* V V
Nellie Bramley and co. are now in their
fortieth week at the Royal, Brisbane, and
they believe they’re going strong for another
40. A new show is put on every week; the
present offering is “The Poor Mutt.” with
Kyrle McAllister as the aforesaid Mutt, who
turns out to be an oil king, and then finds
that the oil is only salt-water. Nellie Bram-
ley is chiefly assisted by McAllister, Ethel
Bashford and Eric Scott. Altogether, it is
quite an able company; it has what few
shows in Australia can boast —a “house full”
sign hanging out more often than not.


The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company, Limited.
Founded 1886.
Assets at 31 st December, 192 7,
£18,567,527,
of which 85% was represented by
Public Securities.
The _ M.L.C. Charter is constituted to
admit of the issue of policies to meet
the necessities of every class, every age,
every purse. Its range of contracts is
unsurpassed for diversity and liberality,
and the fulfilment of every contract is
guaranteed by the Company’s capital
and its ever-increasing assurance Funds.
CASH SURPLUS in the Ordinary
Branch for the year 1927, £609,330.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
Head Office: Citizens’ Building, Castlereagh
Street and Martin Place, Sydney.
Who Will Manage Your Estate?
At all times when an individual is appointed as Executor or Trustee
the uncertainty of human life is present. Who is better qualified to
administer your Estate than the
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED.
It cannot die, travel or disappear; has had over 40 years* experience
in the management of all classes of Estates, and offers as security the
whole of its capital and assets —over £1,000,000.
Our Explanatory Booklet will be
sent to you Post Free on Request.
THOS. BUCKLAND
JAMES MOIR
DIRECTORS:
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman)
0. E. FRIEND
Lt.-Col. T. F. RUTLEDGE
J. W. Barnes, Manager.
E. V. T. Whittle, Asst. Manage
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic P.isk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Paterson, Laing & Bruce, Ltd.
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Profits. (6 p.c.) Ordinary. serves, serves.
July, £ £ £ £ £
1916.. 44,733 21,000 6 p.c. = 15,000 8,733 9,244
1917.. 45,714 21,000 6 „ „ 15,000 9,714 18,958
1918.. 69,804 21,000 8* „ „ 21,250 27,554 46,512
1919.. 70,499 21,000 10 „ „ 25,000 24,499 71,011
1920.. 94,105 29,750 121 ~ „ 31,250 33,105 104,116
Ross.
1921. . 13,746 30,000 7} „ ~ 18,750 41,620
Profits.
1922.. 51,961 30,000 7i „ „ 18,750 3,211 44,831
1923.. 84,545 30,000 10 „ „ 25,000 29,545 74,376
1924.. 67,014 33,000 10 „ „ 25,000 9,014 83,390
1925.. 61,377 36,000 74 „ „ 18,750 6,627 90,017
1926.. 58,321 36,000 7| „ „ 18,750 3,571 93,588
1927.. 61,756 36,000 10 „ „ 25,000 766 94,344
1928.. 63,550 36,000 10 „ „ 25,000 2,550 96,894
Has the tide turned in the wholesale soft-
goods trade? The recovery of P., L. and
B.’s profit figures would suggest that it has.
Of recent years conditions ill the trade have
become increasingly difficult. The policy of
a large turnover on small profit margins has
forced many retailers to deal direct with
the manufacturer, and to become their own
importers; and many do much of their own
manufacturing, too. Also the development
of the specialty house, which concentrates on
one or two lines only, and the growth of
chain stores must have cut into the field.
Thus a lot more business than formerly
passes by the wholesaler, who has to gather
a large number of small orders to make up
his volume of trade; also he has to finance
many of his customers. This necessity to
pursue a multitude of small orders has made
it difficult to keep costs in line with falling
values; also it has made the bad-debts ques-
tion more acute.'
Under the altered conditions there were
too many wholesalers competing for the
volume of trade available, and some have
been squeezed out of business. Also, there
have been some fair-sized casualties amongst
both wholesalers and retailers of recent
years, and that has not done cos. like P., L.
and B. any good either. An immediate re-
sult of the liquidation of warehouse and
other softgoods stocks was the flooding of
the market, and this made it impossible for
the survivors to show a profit on many lines.
Yet, despite last year’s difficulties, and not-
withstanding that trade turnovers generally
were reported well below the previous year’s
levels, this co., which is one of the oldest
and largest in the Australian softgoods trade,
was able to exhibit a net result £1794 better
than the 1927 figure. Given normal condi-
tions, the lowest level of earnings seems to
have been passed.
The 10 p,c. div. to the ords. was repeated,
making an average of p.c. over the last
decade; and that is an extraordinarily good
return, all things considered. After allow-
ing for the pref. requirements, the balance
of last year’s net earnings was 11 p.c. on
the ord. capital, compared with 10.3, 8.9,
10.1 and 13.6 p.c. back to 1924. Those
results are largely due to the substantial
amount of cheap money employed in the
business. Of the £1,080,000 of share and
debenture capital £830,000 is costing the co.
an average of 5.6 p.c. In addition there
were reserves amounting to £96,894 in excess
of goodwill (£161,192) at the close of last
accounts. Incidentally, there is a nice inner
reserve in _ the freeholds, which were valued
at approximately £600,000 four years ago;
their book value was then a few pounds
more than the figure at which they last
appeared (£364,858). The co. is, however,
well justified in keeping down the book value
of the premises on the ground that it is not
justified in occupying premises of any greater
capital value. The extravagance of their
premises has been one of the factors which
have operated seriously against wholesalers.
_ Balance-sheet movements reflect the year’s
difficult trading conditions:—
1921. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Ordinary . . £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Preference . . 500,000 600,000 600,000 600,000
Debentures . . 233,642 233,642 233,642 233,642
Liabilities .. 682,664 487,675 468,968 379,323
Freeholds, etc. 341,901 383,285 377,934 380,968
Stock.. .. 959,713 678,303 748,952 729,175
Book debts .. 305,085 509,457 418,023 373,754
Investments and
cash .. 125,542 121,233 135,670 109,587
The financial position, as usual, is very
strong. Compared with the previous balance,
book debts were £44,269 lighter, stocks were
down £19,777 and investments and cash
were drawn upon for £26,083. That enabled
the board to.clip £89,645 off the trade debt:
thus, the more or less liquid surplus
(£599,551) was only £484 lighter than at
the previous balance. Stocks, which are the
biggest and probably the most vulnerable
item in the sheet, are reported clean and
healthy, having been vigorously discounted to
ensure continued mobility, and being, it is
said, _ neither deficient nor excessive in
quantity. The co., therefore, is well equipped
to take immediate advantage of any improve-
ment in trading conditions. But a return
to former prosperity need not be looked for.
The 4f p.c. debentures, both lots of prefs.
—350,000 A’s and 250,000 B’s, the latter
free of income-tax up to 6s. in the £ —and
the ords. are all listed, but sales are seldom
recorded. The net tangible backing amounts
to 545. Id. and 475. 9d. for the A and B
shares ropectively, and to 275. 9d. for the
ords.
Metropolitan Gas Co. (Melbourne).
Works Written
Divi- Charged Off
deeds, to He- Stocks, Re-
Profits. (13 p.c.) venue. etc. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Dec., '19.. 49,143 65,000 18,883 3,870 662,827
June, ’20.. 63,760 65,000 22,084 798 638,705
Dec., ’20.. 39,363 65,000 Nil Nil 613,068
June, ’21.. 63,495 65.000 Nil Nil 611,563
Dec., ’21.. 109,160 65,000 21,276 Nil 634,447
June, ’22.. 138,202 65,000 49,293 Nil 668,356
Dec., ’22.. 139,520 65,000 28,800 Nil 704,07 C
Refund of income tax . . £23,545 727,621
June, '23.. 68,670 65,000 29,070 8264 683,966
Dec., ’23. . 103,000 65,000 13,789 4262 1 os-i
Cost of Govt, inquiry, £7662 (
June, ’24.. 125,385 65,000 46,871 5,633 704,234
Premiums on shares .. £43,628 747,762
15 p.c.
Dec., ’24.. 128,677 82,197 41,743 4,378 748,121
June, ’25.. 105,182 82,500 18,628 5,270 746,905
Dec., ’25.. 141,568 82,500 60,603 4,194 751,176
June, ’26.. 113,467 82,500 39,094 3,880 739,159
Dec., ’26.. 134,805 82,500 33,500 11,364 746,600
Premiums on shares, £68,040 .. 814,649
June, ’27.. 105,522 88,125 29,782 Nil 802,254
Premiums on shares, £123,423 .. 925,677
Dec., ’27.. 105,843 97,600 28,374 4,580 901,060
June, ’28.. 124,236 97,600 25,000* Nil 902,796
Dec., ’28.. 121,457 97,500 25,562* Nil 901,191
♦Old plant written off.
Following an increase of sd. in the price
charged by the co. for gas, bringing it up
to 7s. Id., the Vic. Government appointed
Mr. T. Forristal, a Treasury official, to
overhaul the co.’s figures. After suggesting
that amendments might be made in the
co.’s Act to provide for the control of prices
and dividends, he summed up in this way:—
I consider that, in view of the increased cost of
production, the additional revenue obtained from
the extra charge of 6d. per 1000 cubic feet in the
price of gas will not be sufficient to enable the co.
to set aside out of profits a sufficient sum to coyer
the full provision to reserve as permitted under its
Act of Incorporation, unless the directors are pre-
pared to reduce the dividend rate as suggested.
Under its Act the co. is entitled to set
aside annually out of profits a sum equal
to 3 p.c. of its total share and debenture
capital for the purpose of meeting contin-
gencies, equalising divs., extending works,
etc. It is the only source from which the
co. is allowed to provide for the deprecia-
tion of its very extensive plant and equip-
ment, which stood in the books at
£3,923,086 at Dec. 31 last.
The maximum amount permitted to be
transferred to the reserve fund last year
was £102,576. For the 12 months to Dec.
31 £245,693 was netted. After handing
shareholders the usual 15 p.c. div. (the rate
was lifted from 13 p.c. 4} years ago),
£50,693 of the year’s net receipts remained,
and £50,562 of that was taken to write off
old retorts which had become obsolete.
Apart from that no provision was made
for the depreciation of the fixed assets.
In the past large sums have been spent
on works, etc., and charged up to revenue,
which is equivalent to writing down fixed
assets by the amounts expended. The next
table shows what has been done in this
way since 1920: —
Charged
Works, etc., to Meters
Year ended Repairs and Paid for out Renewal
Dec., Maintenance, of Profits. Reserve.
1920 .. £164,062 £22,084 £797
1921 .. 242,821 21,276
1922 . . 222,589 52,093
1923 .. 239,469 42,859 12,526
1924 .. 275,933 88,614 9,911
1925 .. 258,505 69,231 9,464
1926 . . 250,830 72,593 15,244
1927 . . 229,459 68,156 4,585
1928 .. 244,911
Whether any of the outlay on repairs and
maintenance has been of a capital nature
is not ascertainable from the published
figures.
During the 10 years to Dec. 31, 1927,
the accounts show £548,416 to have been
spent on works and paid for out of profits.
The board claims that under the co.’s Act
this is the only way it has of making pro-
vision for depreciation. Unless this ex-
penditure, the amount of which is governed
by earnings and the maintenance of the
div., proves to be sufficient to cover actual
depreciation, then profits have been over-
stated and future results are likely to be
affected. The true rate of dividend, by
the way, has for many years past been
less than the declared rate owing to the
high premiums paid to the co. for the later
issues of shares.
Here is a comparison of revenue and
expenditure figures:—
1925. 1927. 1928.
Gas sales .. .. £1,281,311 £1,382,734 £1,466,706
Residual sales, etc. 291,503 321,136 273,350
Total income .. £1,572,814 £1,703,870 £1,740,056
Manufacturing and
distributing exes. 1,051,544 1,209,999 1,215,629
Other charges .. 274,521 288,613 278,734
Since Aug., 1924, the cost of coal (40s. lid.
during the Dec. half of last year) has
increased 15J p.c. Wages have been con-
tinually on the rise, and the 44 hours week
has been introduced. Thus the div. was placed
in immediate danger; so the price of gas,
which had remained steady at 6s. Bd. for
nearly 4£ years, was pushed up 6i p.c.
to help the co. bear the extra burdens. Last
year’s total income was equal to Bs. 4Jd. per
1000 c.f. sold, as against Bs. 3d. in the pre-
vious term —last year’s figure would have
been 2)jd. greater only for the unsatisfac-
tory sale of residuals. Manufacturing and
distribution costs were ss. 10()d., the same
as for 1927, and other charges were £d.
lighter at Is. 4id. Thus the net profit
was Is. 2d., or 2d. better than for the pre-
vious 12 months.
The most disappointing feature of the
accounts is a shrinkage of £47,786 in the
year’s returns from residuals (£273,350).
This is due partly to a change in manu-
facturing methods, whereby the co. uses
more of its own coke. The result has been
an improved make of gas. But in order
to compete with imported bitumen for road-
making the co. has had to cut the price of
tar; revenue from this source was £49,397
last year as against £108,920 two years
earlier. There is a point there for the
Government to recognise—that the gas-
consumer as well as the co. benefits by the
revenue from by-products.
During the year £392,000 5$ p.c. deben-
tures were issued in London at £96, mak-
ing the total debenture capital £2,119,200.
The position as balance-sheet figures dis-
close it is as follows:
1924. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital .. £1,100,000 £1,300,000 £1,300,000
Debentures . . 1,584,200 1,727,200 2,119,200
Creditors .. .. 250,637 272,651 274,142
Fixed assets .. 3,113,090 3,750,466 3,923,086
Stocks and stores. . 255,750 293,005 267,093
Book debts, invest-
ments and cash 406,214 254,940 511,853
Owing to the waterside workers’ strike
coal stocks, which were 63,000 tons in
Sept., were down to 49,481 at the close of
accounts.
It has been suggested that the under-
taking be placed on an 8 p.c. basis by
reducing the nominal div. to 13 p.c. The
present rate is equal to 9.2 p.c. on the share
and premium capital combined. If the co.
escapes being taken over by Government or
municipal authorities, legislative control of
the price and div. is an eventuality which
must always be allowed for. Meantime,
the market is paying £lO 3s. for the £5-paid
shares, which have a net tangible backing
of £8 9s. 4d. The return at the current
price is 7.4 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis. There
is a suggestion there that the market has
some doubts about the maintenance of the
15 p.c.
Victoria Nyanza Sugar Co., Ltd.
To Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
1923.. 1,699 Nil 1,699 4,486
Reserves.
1924.. 37,179 12* p.c. = 32,500 4,679 193
1925.. 10,408 Nil 10,408 10,601
1926.. 43,699 172 p.c. = 52,500 1,800
April,
1927*. 75,158 20 „ „ 60,000 15,158 16,958
1928.. 44,963 15 „ „ 45,000 16,921
*l3 months.
This co., which is in the sugar-planting,
milling and refining business at Miwani,
Kenya Colony, East Africa, was promoted
by George R. Mayers, now its managing
director, in 1921. He had been a successful
Queensland grower and went to Kenya in
1920, took a lease of 6719 acres, bought the
confiscated plant of the old German sugar-
factory at Pangani, Tanganyika, picked up
a lot of light railway material cheap, got
the lot into shape and then invited the
Australian public in. He backed his claims
with £40,000 in cash for shares, took
£lOO,OOO in paids for the assets, and the
public put up £160,000.
Manufacture commenced in the second
year, from which point the table takes up
the story. The shrinkage in the 1925 profits
was the result of a fire on the property of
outside growers. In the next year deliveries
equalled for the first time the capacity of the
mill, and the net result mounted to i 4.5 p.c.
on paid capital, followed by 25 p.c. and then
14.9 p.c. last year, when the figures were
affected by dry conditions.
Although the co. harvested an extra 311
acres of cane last year, making a total of
2587 acres, the crop (45,299 tons) was 10,414
tons lighter than in the previous term; also,
outside deliveries (30,238 tons) were down
10.499 tons. Mainly because of this the
output of white sugar (5700 tons) fell away
2318 tons, and the net profit dropped £30,195.
Notwithstanding this the slender reserves
were dipped into for a few pounds in order
to give shareholders a 15 p.c. div., making
an average of 13 p.c. over the last five years.
Still, provided the plant has been kept
thoroughly efficient, and adequate provision
made for depreciation, the probabilities are
that distributions have not been excessive:
though future earnings and divs. are likely
to fluctuate under seasonal and other in-
fluences. Under normal conditions the co.
has demonstrated that it can earn fine profits.
Last year £14,045 as against £21,420 in
the previous year was visibly set aside for
depreciation, making a total of £72,916 so
written off since the inception of the co. Also
the management charges up to manufacture
10s. per ton on all cane harvested from the
co.’s own plantations. This called for
£22,650 last year, but actual cultivation and
harvesting costs were only £15,713, the
balance (£6937) reducing the plantation
development account to £43,825. Since the
figure was £45,430 at the close of accounts
in 1927, evidently £5332 was spent under
that head during the year. If the value of
the property has been improved by the
amount spent on development to date, then
the sums written off (£26,636 to April 30
last) against this expenditure represent an
inner reserve.
A year ago it was stated that land for
which the co. paid £3 ss. per acre was
then worth £6 to £8 per acre. Incidentally,
the co. has the right to convert its holdings,
which total 9300 acres, into a 999-years'
lease after £50,000 has been spent on improve-
ments, and that point has long been passed.
Here is a comparison of balance-sheet
figures:—
1925. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital .. . . £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liability on land .. 3,401 1,706 855
Other liabilities . . 34,982 21,865 27,892
Mill 165,476 156,981 162,171
Land, buildings, etc. .. 45,902 46,049 47,337
Rolling stock, tramways,
plant, etc 63,347 75,292 82,100
Plantation development 52,434 45,430 43,825
Sugar stocks . . .. 5,975 37,605 21,307
Book debts .. . . 2,856 6,967 12,214
Cash, etc 12,997 9,806 9,214
The drop of £.16,719 in the more or less
liquid surplus (£13,988) is due mainly to
lighter sugar stocks. The mill is in at £4BlO
less than at the previous balance, notwith-
standing the substantial additions that were
made during the year. The increase of
£6BOB in the book value of plant, etc., sug-
gests that development is being pushed ahead
vigorously. During the current term four
miles of heavy rails are to be laid at a cost
of about £4OOO,
Crushings for the current term commenced
on July 24 last, but the crop was reported
backward owing to the previous season’s
drought. Good rains have since fallen. Pro-
duction to January 12, 1929, was 3408 tons
white compared with 4185 tons to January
28, 1928.
The market expresses its confidence in the
management by paying 435. for the pound
shares. The return at that price is 7 p.c.
on a 15 p.c. div. basis. The backing amounts
to 21s. Id. in net tangibles, nearly all of it
plant, worth what it can earn.
Aerated Bread Co., Ltd.
r Dividends
Prefs. Towards De-
Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinaries. Reserves, ficit.*
Sept., ’22.. 5631 105 Nil 5526 4,267
Alar., ’23.. 2345 304 Nil 2041 2,226
Reserves.
Sept., ’23.. 3023 323 Nil 2700 474
Mar., ’24.. 2405 323 Nil 2082 2,556
Sept., ’24.. 4943 323 Nil 4625 7,181
Alar., ’25.. 5215 323 10 p.c. =. 1225 3667 10,848
Sept., ’25.. 2169 323 10 „ „ 1225 621 11,469
Alar., ’26.. 2820 323 10 „ ~1225 1272 12,741
Sept., ’26.. 4894 323 10 „ ~1225 3345 16,087
Reserves capitalised (6s. per share)
£ 10,500 5,587
Alar., ’27.. 4324 323 10 p.c. = 1750 2251 7,838
Sept., ’27.. 4356 323 10 „ ~1750 2283 10,121
Alar., ’28.. 4009 323 10 „ „ 1750 1936 12,057
Sept., ’28.. 4013 323 121 „ „ 2188 1502 18,559
♦lncludes reserve for - depreciation, etc.
The first dozen Real’s of this Sydney cater-
ing co.’s life were full of ups and downs,
chiefly downs. The business was brought
up with a round turn in 1922, when £10.856
of the debt was funded and £6OOO-odd of
10 p.c. pref. capital got in. Since then the
co. has made steady progress.
Shortly before the close of last accounts
the outlook was further brightened by the
co. securing the A.J.C. catering contract for
Randwick. Other contracts held include those
for Rosehill and the Sydney Cricket Ground,
and one with the N. S. Wales Railways.
Not much .benefit could have been received
from the Randwick contract up to the close
of last accounts; still the board saw suffi-
cient promise in the outlook to add a 3d.
bonus to the ord. div., making the distri-
bution at the rate of 12£ p.c. p.a. After
attending to the handful of prefs. the balance
of the vear’s net earnings was 22.8 p.c. on
the ord. capital compared with 23.8 p.c.
in the previous year.
Whether these results are as good as they
look largely depends upon what replacements,


\
&
AJ
iii
ft
BN
.
\
Si
S2J o
mm®
SSKriBSSS
I IMp
h'srk&M
19m
;vv-»
i fta%,
* | # £ 'V
,_ •. •;, * v .v. ~
U'.
>i‘ ■'■ V j
i «
1 ii
ni s
<■
r : ■
"wra
lb
VliUu
y
(3
Belford Dome possesses what is most essential for the location
of Oil and Natural Gas in commercial quantities—oil-bearing
rock and a perfect Dome Structure with an impervious cover.
Thorough geological surveys of the Belford Dome area leave no
doubt in the minds of experts that there are excellent possibilities
of obtaining oil. Dr. Arthur Wade, the eminent British Petroleum
Technologist, in his report to the Commonwealth Government
stated that Belford Dome exhibited the most suitable structural
formations for the discovery of OIL and NATURAL GAS in
Australia.
Two Structural Bores recently put down at Belford conclusively
verified the mapping survey and revealed —
(1) Natural Gas.
(2) Petroleum residues in the sandstone.
(3) Coal seams of great value aggregating
371,000,000 tons.
To “bring in” a prolific well, nothing has been left to chance.
The finest Oil-drilling Plant obtainable has been secured, is in
course of erection on Belford Dome, and actual boring will com-
mence early in April. One of the world’s most experienced drillers,
Mr. L. McKillop, of Anglo-Persian fame, was selected by Dr.
Arthur Wade and Vickers-Armstrongs Ltd. (London) to control
drilling operations.
Important for every oil proposition is its accessibility to railroads
and shipping ports. Belford Dome, intersected by the Great
Northern railway line, is only 38 miles from the deep-sea port of
Newcastle.
BELFORD DOME
LIMITED
BROOK HOUSE,
17 O’CONNELL STREET,
SYDNEY. 85338.
TEMPLE COURT,
422-28 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE. F 5445.
The first issue of 30,000 shares was over-subscribed. The second issue
of 30,000 now being offered is being quickly taken up, and allotment will
close on the 15th April—2/6 on application, 2/6 on allotment, balance
of calls not exceeding 1/- per month per share, but no calls will be made
until 3 months after allotment.
Opportunity knocks but once—don’t delay—send for full particulars now.
yy
Bulletin 6/2/’29


Don’t Lose
Your Money!
MORE THAN HALF
OF ALL REGISTERED
COMPANIES FAIL.
<r
If you invest anything
at all you can’t afford
to be without
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
FEBRUARY NUMBER NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or “Bulletin” Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock + GF + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in eVery detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. — Advt.
* * * •
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
The specification of Pioneer Wood Pipe for any
water-supply scheme not only effects considerable
saving on expenditure, but ensures longer service,
less upkeep and purer supply. On account of its
suitability to any conditions, Pioneer Wood Pipe
has an ever increasing demand for water-supply
systems, irrigation, mining and dredging work. Let
us send you the latest illustrated book of informa-
tion. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.;
and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
W. Soren Jensen, late Mt. Morgan G. M. Co.,
Consulting Mining Engineer, 33 Boyle Street, Cre-
morne, Sydney. Box 220 D, G.P.0., Sydney. Tel.
Y 1557 Advt.
* * * *
Patents.— r Have you an idea worth patenting f
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.— Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lift*
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
MAY’S BROADCAST FERTILISER SPREADER
To Farmers and Graziers
The season is now approaching for
top-dressing your lands, and here
is the Ideal Machine for the job.
Spreads up to 40ft. 50-100 acres
per day.
SIMPLE—CHEAP—EFFECTIVE.
PRICE: £2l net f.o.r. Sydney.
For use with Spring Cart.
£2 extra for Motor-lorry attachments.
Call and Inspect. AGENTS WANTED.
AGENTS:
GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney.
M 3?
my.
• r /
INSURE WITH THE
H
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
16 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres
if any, have been paid for out of revenue and
charged up to working exes. Reserves in the
table, and therefore profits, include addi-
tions to the depreciation and taxation re-
serves. These were lumped at £12.500 at
Sept. 30—up £3500 during the year. A couple
of years earlier the board dipped into this
reserve to restore 6s. per share that went down
the sink eight years earlier, and no visible
withdrawals have been made to satisfy the
annual demands of the tax-gatherer. If replace-
ments have not been ample to cover all wast-
ages. then the £13,559 of reserves shown
above is not 100 p.c. genuine.
The latest grouping of balance-sheet
figures—plant is_lumped with stocks in one
entry —obscures the real financial position.
Here is as much as the sheet discloses:—
1925. 192 G. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital . . £30,905 £30,905 £41,405 £41,405
Liabilities .. 8,819 27,920 22,013 25,941
Freehold & leasehold 13,810 44,305 44,305 44,365
Plant .. .. 21,205 22,333 22,994 l
Stocks .. .. 4,233 4,207 3,514 J aA ’ i6 ‘
Book debts ... 5,416 5,176 4,965 5,436
Cash, etc. .. 7,754 115 110 115
Comparing the composite item (£33,237)
with the combined figures a year earlier, it
shows an increase of £6729, due, apparently,
to expanding business. The basis on which
plant is valued in the books is not disclosed,
but the figures increased only £3OBO over the
six years to March 31, 1928.
Following the announcement regarding the
Randwick contract there was a sharp rise
in the price of the ords., which were sell-
ing around par a year ago. Recent quotes
were 245. 6d., buyers; 265. Gd., sellers. At
the middle price the return is 9.8 p.c. as long
as the 121 p.c. div. continues. The backing
amounts to 275. 9d. in net tangibles, includ-
ing the depreciation, etc., reserve. The more
attractive prefs. are not quoted on ’Change.
Mercantile Bank of Australia.
This eo., concerning which Tiie Bulletin
receives almost daily inquiries from all over
Australia, registered in Sydney last year.
It issued its first prospectus in March, 1928.
Nominal capital was then £2,000,060, half
in prefs. and the other half in ords. Appa-
rently things did not work according to plan
at tlie outset, and, later, a second prospec-
tus was issued. The name of Edward Lucas,
cx-Agent-General of South Aus, and a sub-
stantial man of business, had disappeared
from the directorate, and the capital was
rearranged. The nominal amount was in-
creased to £3,000,000 in £5 shares, of which
200,000 were 8 p.c. (fixed) cum. prefs.,
200,000 8 p.c. cum. participating “A” prefs.
and 200,000 ords. Of this lot 50,000 “A”
shares were put on the market at a premium
of £1 each, and 100,000 ords. were offered
at par. The (fixed) 8 p.c. prefs. rank before
all other shares for dividend and capital.
Comparatively few of these shares have been
issued, and it is not proposed to offer any
more for subscription at present, the pros-
pectus says. Next come the “A” shares,
which have priority as to capital and the
right to advance with the ords. in any dis-
tribution beyond 8 p.c. The premiums on
these shares are to be used to meet estab-
lishment exes., including the cost of opening
branches in the various Australian States.
The object of the bank is to transact
general banking business, for which purpose
the board hopes that the co.’s doors will be
opened about June next.
At Dec. 10 last the co. had sold 6787
prefs. (mostly “A” shares) and 4825 ords.:
thus the issued capital was £58,060. The
amount paid up was £36,374. and there was
£5141 of calls unpaid and £16,545 uncalled.
Of the scrip issued 3000 prefs. and a like
number of ords. have been taken up by one
investor in Melbourne. The balance of the
scrip is lightly scattered oyer Australia and
Maoriland. The average holding of the other
70 persons on the pref. register is 54 shares;
and for the other 60 persons on the ord.
register the average is about 30 shares.
A director’s qualification is a Jiolding of
100 shares in the co.; it was £5OO in the
original prospectus. At Dec. 10, 1928, the
three Sydney directors, who were connected
with the promotion of the co., held 100 pref.
shares each. One of them had paid £l3O
on his issue, and the other two £5O (10s.
per share) each. In addition two of them
held an unsecured share interest in the busi-
ness of £5 (one ord.) each.
The prospectus implies that banking is a
highly profitable business, but says nothing
about the difficulties. The Primary. Pro-
ducers’ Bank, which set up here in 1923,
claimed a profit of £5637 as the result of its
last year’s trading. That was equal to 1.3
p.c. on its £426,514 of paid capital, but as
each £1 of capital was accompanied by £1
of premium money, the result was little more
than one-half of one per cent, on the money
put up by shareholders. Moreover, estab-
lishment expenditure had cost the bank
£420,579 for the five years to Feb. 28,_ 1928.
It then had 47 branches and 22 agencies.
Obviously the path of a new bank in these
days is a difficult one if it is not backed by
large financial interests. No such interests
are visible here.
Standard Portland Cement, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
Preliminary exes., £25,612 .. 25,612
1927.. 4,947 Nil 4,947 20,663
Reserves.
1928.. 35,866 Nil 35,866 15,203
Dec.,
1928* 21,718 8 p.c. = 16,967 4,751 19,954
*6 months.
At the annual meeting, about six months ago,
there was competition for a seat at >he
board-table, and suggestions of mismanage-
ment were heard. A big majority of the
shareholders, however, unhesitatingly ex-
pressed their confidence in those in control,
and results appear to have justified their
faith. Figures for the six months to Dec.
31 show all-round improvement; and share-
holders are to get their first div., winch is
at the rate of 8 p.c. p.a. for the period
covered by the accounts. Incidentally
£75,000 of the paid capital is deferred us to
divs. until distributions totalling 15 p.c.
have been made on all shares issued within
one year after Dec. 10, 1924. The £21,718
netted for the last half-year was at the ’ate
of 8.7 p.c. p.a. on the full £499,182 of paid
capital compared with 7.1 p.c. for the pre-
ceding 12 months, and profits will need to
further improve if an 8 p.c. div. is to be
safely maintained.
Thus far results have fallen short of pros-
pectus estimates, which figured on a net
return of over 16 p.c. p.a. on an output of
80,000 tons. The present capacity of the
plant is 100,000 tons p.a., but the output
for the 12 months to June 30, 1928, was
well below that. The co. holds a contract
with the N. S. Wales Government for the
supply of 50,000 tons a year—this contract
expires on June 30, 1930 —and, though the
co.’s production is on the increase, the aggre-
gate of other orders apparently is not very
large.
The latest result was written after making
provision for taxation and setting aside
£12.500 for depreciation, which, on a yearly
basis, is £lO,OOO more than was provided for
the same purpose in the previous term. Much
depends upon whether these provisions are
sufficient; for not only is competition very
keen, and likely to become keener, but rapid
changes, many of them affecting the cost of
production, are taking place in the industry.
The book value of freehold and plant is down
£10,449 during the half-year, so apparently
£2051 was spent on plant out of revenue and
charged to capital.
The unexpectedly heavy cost of equip-
ment, as a result of which the board had
gone outside for £169,248 at June 30, 1927,
has been a drag. There has, however, been
a marked improvement in the financial
position, as this comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows:
June, June, Dec.,
1927. 1928. 1928.
Paid capital .. .. £466,691 £499,172 £499,182
Creditors .. .. 169,248 118,014 90.714
Freeholds and plant.. 522,335 526,539 616,090
Shares in other cos. . . 35,009 35,009 35,009
Stores and stocks . . 35,774 39,296 43,553
Book debts and cash.. 22,160 31,546 32,166
During the six months to Dec. 31, £4877
was added to stocks, book debts and cash,
etc., and £27,300 was lopped off the amount
coming to creditors. Thus the excess of the
outside debt over the more or less liquids
was reduced £32,177, making it £14,995.
Shares in other cos. represent this co.’s
holding in the Kandos-Coomber Colliery.
An encouraging feature in the outlook for
cement cos. generally is the recent formation
of an Australian Cement Manufacturers'
Association. The idea behind this is to
create markets by educating the public in
the uses of cement and, if possible, find new
uses or create new needs for it. American
experience in this respect has been favor-
able.
In the vestibule 16s. 6d. was recently
offered for the fully-paid pound shares,
which have a net tangible backing of
20s. lid. each. The return at the price
stated is 9.6 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The
scrip is shortly to be listed.
Oil in Maoriland.
According to cables received in Australia
at the week-end the Paritutu Oil Co. (for-
merly the Blenheim Co.) has struck oil in
its deep bore at Moturoa, Taranaki —a
gush of 1200 to 1300 gallons of petroleum
an hour. The bore, it is stated, has been
capped pending the construction of reser-
voirs. Boring has been going on in this
field for several years, with results so en-
couraging that the various companies, though
none of them had attained commercial suc-
cess, were encouraged to continue prospect-
ing, some of them with Government sub-
sidies.
The result of the latest discovery was felt
on Sydney share-market last Saturday morn-
ing, when there were sales of Taranaki Oil,
an Australian co. prospecting in the same
field,, up to Bs. 6d. That was after a long
period in which buyers were offering not
more than 6s. 6d., and no business was pass-
ing. The Paritutu Co. is not listed.
A. H. P. Moline, manager of the Aus-
tralian co.’s Taranaki enterprise, is at pre-
sent visiting the other side of the world to
find out, if he can, how to get at the oil
which he is still satisfied is waiting for
them. Moline is an Australian mining en-
gineer of very high attainments. He had
his earlier training at Broken Hill, and
afterwards was general manager first of Y
Water and later of Cock’s Pioneer.
“Melilla”: That recent float in London
of some old tin-mines of North Queensland,
which were bought by the Whitworth
Finance and Mining Corporation, Ltd.,
counts the chickens before they are hatched.
Profits are to be £282.360, with tin at only
£2OO per ton. The Governor Norman, one
of the group, is to yield 100,000 tons of ore
worth 1.8 p.c. black tin a year. The show
was well worked under Moffat and Reid ;
it produced only a few thousand tons, and
its average was nearer one-half of one per
cent. The lode, which is now broken up with
rock, is small and poor, and the workings
have fallen in. The Vulcan is a prospecting
show only. New and payable ore bodies will
have to be found, if they are there, and a
lot of money will have to be spent to put
the mine in working order. Garrumbah is
dog-poor; it was worked by Moffat and Co.
years ago to bankruptcy point. Odd patches
of poor ore occur in greisen dykes, and the
place has had a quarter of a century’s trial.
Koorboora is another well-worked place;
what remains there is mullock and traces of
tin. Yet definite tonnages, yields and pro-
fits are given!
* * * *
Lake View and Star directors have tenta-
tively agreed to purchase the Golden Horse-
shoe; consideration, a block of Lake View
and Star shares, size not stated. Horseshoe
will retain its cash and the well-known moun-
tainous residue dump. During recent years
neither show has done more than make pro-
mises and incur liabilities. Sole ownership
should tend to cheapen mining of the ore
in Chaffers lease, adjoining the Horseshoe,
but owned by L. V. and Star. But the
prospect of dividends is not brilliant. Much
was promised as a result of the Lake View
and Star and Ivanhoe amalgamation, but
dividends are still missing. There is high-grade
ore in Chaffers, but it is at 2600 ft. and
deeper, and seems unlikely to repay the
high cost of mining, including main-shaft
sinking.
* * * *
Amalgamations, improved treatment pro-
cess and a new plant were the chief subjects
discussed at the Boulder Perseverance meet-
ing in London. Chairman Bell said that a
neighboring concern had offered to join forces
with the co. and give it a 40 p.c. interest
in a new venture, but the board refused to
consider the proposal. Flotation was de-
scribed by Dr. Edwards fdirector) as too
chancy. A modification of the old Brown-
hill bromo-cyanide wet-crushing process is
being tried out. If results prove successful
the board intended to ask the Federal and
State Governments for donations towards the
cost of installing a new plant.
* * * *
When the Golden Butterfly Co. took an
option over the New Mararoa at Norseman,
con. shares were worth 4d. Since then the
co. has done a great deal of development
work, but there has been no actual treat-
ment of ore. Shareholders are anxious to
know how it would respond to such a test.
Shares are now at 45.; thus the market capi-
talises the co. at £40,000, which is a big
figure compared with the proposed purchase
price of £4500.
* * * *
Malayan tin-dredging returns generally show
improvement for the first month of the new
year. In the Alluvial Tin group the figures
for Rawang dredge and sluicing plants are,
for the first time, lumped together. The
two plants turned over 220,000 yards for 70
tons oxide, an average of .711 b.; joint costs
were 4.96 d. The December averages were
.601 b. for the dredge and .781 b. for the sluic-
ing plant. Costs, 11.19 d. for the latter and
3.53 d. for the dredge. In 1928 Rawang re-
covered 646 tons of t. 0., the sluicing plant
contributing 358 of them. The dredge re-
covered an average of 24 tons per month,
and the sluicing plant 29.83 tons.
When Kundang was floated it was esti-
mated that 30 tons of t.o. per month would
furnish a satisfactory profit with tin at the
then figure of £250. During the past year
that tonnage has been once reached and
four times exceeded, the best performance
being 43 tons in November. The recovery
for the whole year was 348 tons, which works
out at 29 tons per month. The January dig
was also a good one, 36 tons coming from
121,000 yards, averaging .661b._t0 the yard.
January’s costs were 5.78 d. ivampar Tin-
fields swallowed Malim Nawar South, Kuala
Ivampar and Tanjong Tualong in April last.
In the first four months of the year M. N.
South produced 130 tons of t. 0., Kuala Kam-
par 80 tons and Tanjong 170 tons. The
total recovery for this group for 1928 was
1595 tons, a trifle under 133 tons per month.
January’s yield was 142 tons from 533,000
yards; average, .591 b., as against .571 b. for
December. Costs, 3.46 d.
Changkat lias proved a winner all the way
for Alluvial since digging began in March
last year. Ten months’ work has resulted
in the recovery of 562 tons of ore, monthly
recoveries ranging from the preliminary dig
of 17 tons to the peak recovery of 120
tons for August last. The average for that
period is over 1.301 b. Only once has it fallen
below a pound a yard; that was in Novem-
ber when the figure was .941 b. The average
recovery per month has been 56.20 tons.
The January return was 83 tons of t.o. from
138,000 yards, the second-best recovery to
date; the average was 1.341 b. Costs, 5.27 d.,
show a decline.


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
S. J. HALE LTD
REGISTERED UNDER THE COMPANIES ACTS N<S.W. 1899-WlB.
NOMINAL CAPITAL £50,000
DIVIDED INTO 50,000 SHARES OF £1 EACH.
10,000 Nine Per Cent. Cumulative Preference Shares
now offered for subscription, payable 2/0 per
share on application, 2/6 per share on allot-
ment.„and the balance in calls not exceeding 2/0
per share at intervals of not less than one
month. Such shares to participate in the profits
earned to a maximum dividend of 12$ per cent.
18,000 Ordinary Shares now offered for subscription,
payable on the same terms as the 0 per .cent.
Cumulative Preference Shares.
7,000 Ordinary Shares to be issued as fully-paid in
the terms of the agreement, and deferred ns to
dividends until all contributing shares have
received a dividend of 10 per cent, on the
capital paid up on them.
15,000 Shares to be held in reserve for future issue.
50,000
BROKER.
L. A. Minnett, Chatham House, 106 Pitt-street, Sydney (Mem-
ber of the Sydney Stock Exchange).
BOARD OF DIRECTOR'S.
Thomas A. Miller, M.I.S.A.C. (Lond.), Chairman and Managing
Director, Cremorne-road, Cremorne.
Thomas Carleton, ,I.P. (late Manager F. Lassetter and Co.,
Ltd., and Buyer Mark Foy’s, Ltd.), Muston-street, Mosman.
William Bolton, J.P., Company Manager, Violet-street, Enfield.
(Two other Directors may he appointed).
BANKERS.
Bank of New South Wales, George-street West, Sydney.
SOLICITORS.
Messrs. Deane, Haselhurst and Howard, 34 Martin Place,
Sydney.
, AUDITOR.
W. J. Tidex, F.1.1.A., Public Accountant and Auditor, 14
Martin Place, Sydney.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE.
E. Bell, 41-49 George-street West, Sydney.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
The Company is being formed for the purpose of, inter
a tin :—
1. Purchasing and carrying on the very old-established
business of S. J. Hale and Co., Ltd., Furniture and Fur-
nishing Drapery Merchants, at 41-49 George-street West,
Sydney. .
2. Creating a Cash Order Department which will enable the
business to materially increase its cash trade.
3. Developing a Time Payment and Cash Order trade on
modern lines under entirely new and enterprising manage-
ment.
4. Doing such other acts and conducting such other enter-
prises as shall be incidental to and in furtherance of the
main objects of the Company.
HISTORY OF S. J. HALE AND CO., LIMITED.
The name of S. J. Hale and Co., Ltd., is a household word.
The Company is and always has been a family concern. The
existing Company Wes' incorporated in 1905, but the business
was founded by the late Samuel J. Hale 50 years ago.
A great many of the present customers are children and
grandchildren of the original customers, and could not be
induced to trade elsewhere. The repute of the Company for
honest value and straight dealing has become a tradition that
has been handed down from the parents to their children.
The Company, therefore, has an excellent business connection,
and as a direct result of more expert and enterprising man-
apremont, together with the proposed introduction of the highly
profitable Cash Order System, a much greater volume of business
can be effected, which will be accompanied by consequential
gains in earning capacity. Indeed, there are definite prospects
of immediate and sustained improvement in both turnover and
profits.
Since the death of the late S. .1. Hale the Company has been
content to live on its past achievements. There has been no
efficient management, in control, practically no advertising, and
too little stock-in-trade has been carried to meet the business
offering.
It is a magnificent tribute to the soundness of the business
and to its good repute that, notwithstanding many serious dis-
abilities which it has suffered since the death of Mr. S. J. Hale,
it still retains its old and valuable connection.
By the proposed extension of the business the modernising of
the same, the employment of efficient travellers and judicious
advertising a much greater business can undoubtedly be secured. ,
The premises are large and modern, centrally situated in a
populous district in George-street West.
With a Board of live and capable Directors in control, an
efficient staff and a progressive policy the business will realise
to the fullest extent the value of the goodwill that has taken 50
years to create. Moreover, it is certain that the addition of an
up-to-date Cash Order Department will naturally assist in
enabling this old-established concern to realise its latent
possibilities.
ESTIMATE OF FUTURE EARNINGS.
That no branch of trade has shown greater romance in the
acquisition of wealth and power than a combined furniture and
furnishing drapery and the cash-order system is so well known
as to be a commonplace. During the past few years every
capital city in Australia has seen the successful development of
enormous businesses of this nature, and fortunate shareholders
have every reason to be satisfied with their holding.
The following figures, compiled on a conservative basis, repre-
sent the estimate of future earnings, on the basis of the capital
now offered for subscription, with the Vendor shares: (a) Cash
Order Department
Issue of Cash Orders per annum
Gross profit on £39,000, 18 per cent.
per annum
Salaries, Expenses, and 2 per cent,
provision for doubtful debts and
income taxes
Estimated Net Profit
(b) Hire-Purchase Department—
Sales
Gross Profit on £30,000, 45 per cent.
Salaries, Expenses, Rent, Income Taxes,
etc
£39,000
£7,020
£3,004
£4,016
£30,000
£13,500
£9,900
(c) Cash Order Department—
Estimated Net Profit ....
Hire-Purchase Department—
Estimated Net Profit ....
£3,600
£4,016
£3,600
£7,616
A NET PROFIT OF £7616 ON A SHARE CAPITAL OF
£31.000 SHOWS A RETURN OF APPROXIMATELY 25 PER
CENT.
SHARES HELD IN RESERVE.
The 15,000 Shares held in reserve will be offered to Share-
holders at par when the Company is in need of extra capital.
According to present indications, this will be required in the
not too distant future. As the Company’s shares should then
be at a premium on the Sydney Stock Exchange, this should
be an added attraction to investors.
CASH ORDER DEPARTMENT.
This department is destined to become a most important and
highly profitable section of the Company’s operations. Arrange-
ments are being made whereby “Hale’s Cash Orders” will be
accepted as cash at a great number of retnil stores in Sydney.
The Company’s Cash Orders will therefore represent an invest-
ment which cannot be questioned by the most discriminating
investigator.
Most of the original shareholders in the large Casli Order
companies have quadrupled their first holdings from accumulated
profits distributed in the form of bonus shares, and dividends
have ranged from 10 per cent, to 40 per cent, in such com-
panies, some of which do not enjoy the facilities possessed by
S. ,1. Hale Limited.
PAST EARNINGS.
As pointed out by the auditor in the prospectus, the return
on capital during the lifetime of the late S. J. Hale was about
25 per cent., and, making the necessary adjustment in the figures
for the past 12 years for
(a) Excessive drawings,
(b) Abnormal expenditure,
(c) Non-recurring expenditure,
(d) Excessive provision for bad debts,
the earning capacity of the business during the latter period was
APPROXIMATELY 17 PER CENT.
The present ratio of expenses can be reduced materially, and
with adequate stocks a largely increased turnover can be
secured. The business has been conducted on old-fashioned lines
and no efforts made to increase it nor to meet modern require-
ments, so that much profitable business has been allowed to go
elsewhere. The shareholders have been satisfied with the earnings
on their invested capital, and have not availed themselves of
the many opportunities for expansion offered by the fact that
Time-Payment has become a social necessity, allied to the
possession of unique facilities for this class of trading and a
goodwill extending over half a century.
In this long-established and going concern, where good profits
have been made year by year, the introduction of modern and
progressive methods and new capital cannot fail to produce
excellent returns from the outset.
THE SECURITY OF THE INVESTMENT
(£3/3/9 PER £1 SHARE).
The Cumulative Preference Shares will have a backing of
tangible assets of £3 3s. 9d. per £1 share, and as the shares
issued to the vendors are Ordinary Shares and deferred as to
dividends, the contributing shareholders must secure their
dividend before the vendor shares are entitled to any share of
the profits earned.
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES.
Applications for Shares should be accompanied by a remittance
representing 2s. 6d. per share, and forwarded to the Company’s
Broker, L. A. Minnett, Chatham House, 105 Pitt-street, Sydney
(member of the Sydney Stock Exchange).
FULL PROSPECTUS
Copies of the complete Prospectus may be
obtained from the Company’s Broker, L. A.
Minnett, Chatham House, 105 Pitt Street, Sydney
(member of the Sydney Stock Exchange); or from
E. BELL, Secretary S. J. Hale, Ltd.,
41 to 49 George Street WeSt, Sydney.
2
-■
kkklcfc
kttkk
tfcfcfck
t rr
t'S
ftjt
f f
a
: w
m
DO IT THE
i UNIVERSAL
WAY
Rarely does the woman of
to-day need to be reminded
that electricity can help in
her household tasks; but
to benefit from electricity
you must have the correct
appliances.
Universal Electric Appliances
assure true service. They last
long and are truly economical,
besides being so efficient and
good-looking that they are a
pleasure to work with.
Universal goods are moder-
ately priced, so you will be
doubly repaid by that name.
W. G. WATSON & CO. LTD.
279 Clarence Street, Sydney 28 Coromandel Place, Adelaide
29 Hunter Street, Newcastle 933 Hay Street, Perth
200 Queen Street, Melbourne 53 Charlotte Street, Brisbane
33 Argyle Street, Hobart.
15hQ
NATIONAL BANK
OP AUSTRALASIA LTD.
HEAD OFFICE, MELBOURNE
I
Capital Paid up
£5,000,000
Reserve Fund
£3,000,000
Total Assets
£45,622,056
480 Offices and Branches in
Australia.
LONDON OFFICES:
7 Lothbury and
Australia House, Strand.
Principal Office in New South Wales:
342 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bank provides a complete service covering the financial
side of Australian Industry—including farming, grazing,
manufacturing, transport, wholesale and retail trade, as well
as import and export transactions. It makes loans against
approved securities and allows interest on money lodged on
deposit for terms ranging up to two years. Full provision
is made to meet the banking needs of tourists and settlers.
Agents throughout the World.


An Opportunity
[for Mining' Investors 1
and Speculators |
THE CHALONG TIN MINES, N.L., has been formed under the provisions of Part II of the Companies Act 1915 of Victoria
with a capital of £1 65,000, divided into 1 65,000 shares of £1 each, for the purpose (inter alia) of acquiring from Commercial
General Investment Trust Proprietary, Limited, its rights under an agreement between it and the Asia Amalgamated
Tin Syndicate, No Liability, whereby the latter company agrees to sell all its right, title and interest in an area of 1 70 acres of
tin-bearing country situated at Chalong Sichon in the Kingdom of Siam, and also its right, title and interest in a free option
for six months from the first day of October, 1928, over 1200 acres adjoining the said property.
SITUATION AND DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY. The property is situate on the East Coast of Siam approximately 9
miles inland from Sichon, which is jsituated on a tidal river or klong within 1 4 miles of the sea front, and is a port of call
whenever inducement offers by the coastal steamers plying between Singapore in the south and Bangkok in the north.
The Chalong Company proposes to instal a bucket dredge capable of treating 100,000 cubic yards each month.
BORING OPERATIONS. An area of 140 acres was first bored by Mr. E. T. Anderson, Mining Engineer, of Kuala
Lumpur, F.M.S., who firstly put down scout bores at 12 chains by 6 chains in a selected area of 150 acres; 18 bores,
average depth feet and the average value o.93kts. 1 ,241 b. He then close-bored the selected area 6 chains by 3.
The key line then was bored at 3-chain intervals, 1 1 bores on this line averaging in depth 43 feet 8 inches; average value
per cubic yard, I.o9kts. 1.451b.—230z. This was check-bored by Mr. W. F. Mackenzie, the well-known Mining Engineer
of Opoh, F.M.S., who reported the following Yardage and Values:—
V alue
No. bores. Average depth. Average lets. Ib. oz. per c. yard*.
44 42 ft. .99 1.32 21
84 44.4 ft. .83 1.10 17.6
Since Mr. Mackenzie s check-boring an additional area has been bored, making the selected area 170 acres of proved
ground.
The total number of bores put down by Messrs. Anderson and Mackenzie is as follows:
Average value
Total bores. Average depth. kts. lb. oz.
99 42£ft. 0.768 1024 16.384
and gives a total of 1 1,656,220 cubic yards.
in addition to the above property the Vendor Company holds a free option over 1200 acres on which Mr. E. T.
Anderson has put 36 bores at an average depth of 44 feet and has proved average values of 1 3oz.
REPORT OF MINING ENGINEERS. Mr. W. F. Mackenzie has made a lengthy report on the property, which justifies and
deserves the confidence the Chalong Mines has in its undertaking. Extracts from his report contain the following information:
On arrival of my boring gangs on the property, the key line as shown on plan was selected for actual check-boring. My
bores were put down within a few feet of those put down originally, and the average results obtained, as you will note,
very closely coincide with the original, the difference being infinitesimal. This I may say is very satisfactory, for although
bores may be put down within a few feet of the original a totally different result is often obtained.” Referring to the
nature of the ground, Mr. Mackenzie continues: No boulders were encountered, and according to the boring done the
area is evidently free of sunken timber, and the whole area has an ideal soft, decomposed bottom, which is an important
factor, for it ensures a good recovery of values and facilitates working conditions.” In regard to the possibilities of
further yardage, he says: In my opinion an increase in yardage with payable results may safely be expected from a
portion of the upper section extending from the present selected area to the foothills.”
Mr. E. T. Anderson, Mining Engineer of Kuala Lumpur, Federated Malay States, bears out the opinion of Mr. Mackenzie,
and stresses the following points: The total area tested by boring is 190 acres, and from this I have selected an area
approximately 170 acres which I consider is payable and well suited for bucket dredging. On the south-east side of the
property of the Mining Lease of 47 rais is the best run of tin-bearing ground. From bore FtoG on the key line, in some
instances, exceptionally high values were obtained; 3 bores on this line showed an average of 2-Jib. to the cubic yard.
Also above the key line and below the key line show good values. This part of the area is rich in tin, as you will see
by the boring plan. On the north side of the property and towards the eastern boundary the ground is deep and good
values also obtained. Nature of ground here shows overburden Bft. to 10ft. deep; in portions there are some stiff layers
of clay, but of no great depth; from sft. to 6ft. thick and over is free drifty material which will be easily dealt with. Karang
*® met at variable depths, and is from 2ft. to Bft. thick, which carries the best tin. The ground is fairly easy, consisting
from 2ft. to Bft. of easily-washed karang overlain by clays varying in texture from smooth and heavy to light and sandy,
predominating, and as far as can be judged by boring the worst of these clays will be easily dealt with. THE
WHOLE AREA IS IDEAL FOR DREDGING.”
WATER SUPPLY. There arc several small streams on the property with ample supply for the greater part of the year. In the dry season
an old existing water-race, which can be put into commission at a relatively small cost, will ensure a supply over a distance of 2\ miles.
FUEL. Firewood is plentiful in the hilly country near the property.
TRANSPORT. All material could be carried by sea route, and obvious advantages would accrue from this cheap method of transport.
MANAGEMENT. The Company is negotiating for the services of one of the best-known Mining Managers in the East and a vigorous policy
or immediate development is contemplated.
THE DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY are: Henry Barnes, Ardoch, 18 Dandenong Road, East St. Kilda, Victoria, Investor. John Fergus
tone, 405-0 7 Collins Street, Melbourne, Investor. Frederick Charles Osborne, Engineer, 67 Kavanagh Street, South Melbourne.
THE MANAGER AND REGISTERED OFFICE are: F. L. Smyth, Chartered Accountant (Aust.), Commercial Union Buildings, 413 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
PL f ?T : The Property is suitable for bucket dredging, and it is proposed to instal an up-to-date dredge, which may be purchased in Australia
and delivery obtained as soon as possible to ensure the commencement of operations within 12 months from the placing of the order.
POTENTIAL VALUE OF THE PROPERTY. On a basis of 1 1,656,220 cubic yards yielding 16oz. per cubic yard (against Mackenzie’s average
estimate of 1 7.60 z.), and taking the proved assay value of 72%, it can be calculated that the potential value of the property is £824,260,
taking tin at a basic price of £220 per ton. This estimate is reckoned on the most conservative basis, and it is almost certain that the price
2, e 'will never fall below the basic price but should show greatly-enhanced values as the world's shortage grows more acute.
This, of course, will considerably appreciate the value of the Company’s property. On the basis of the treatment of 100,000 cubic yards
per month, the life of the property should be approximately 10 years and an average of £82,000 worth of tin per annum recovered. Working
C r OStS c. ar n e or tlmated at '’ d ' pCr cu^ic y ard - The total working expenses, therefore, will be approximately £25,000 per annum, leaving a profit
of £5 7,000 per annum. This represents more than 34% per annum on a capital of £165,000.
IN THE BASIC PRICE OF TIN WILL ADD TO THE INCOME OF THE COMPANY WITHOUT AFFECTING THE WORKING
EXPENSES, AND INCREASE THE PERCENTAGE OF NET PROFIT.
It should be noted that the value of the free option of the adjoining property of 1200 acres has not been taken into account in the above
estimates.
The Chalong Tin Mines, N.L., will apply for quotation on the Stock Exchanges of Melbourne and Sydney.
The Commercial and General Investment Trust Pty., Ltd., now offers for sale 95,000 of its shares in the Chalong Tin Mines, N.L., at a
premium of 2s. per share. The offer of these shares will ensure to investors desiring an interest in a tin-mining venture a very favorable
opportunity of obtaining a holding before paying the high premiums which should rule as soon as mining operations commence.
Applications for shares should be in the form following or to the like effect:
CHALONG TIN MINES, NO LIABILITY.
To the Directors,
COMMERCIAL AND GENERAL INVESTMENT TRUST PTY., LTD.,
1/05-07 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sirs, —I the undermentioned hereby apply to purchase of the shares of £1 each subscribed for by you in CHALONG TIN MINES, NO LIABILITY,
payable as follows: ss. per share deposit, 7s, per share upon notification that certificates for the shares purchased are available for issue to the purchasers, and
the balance in calls not exceeding Is. per share per month. I enclose herewith cheque for £ : ; being deposit of ss. per share, and request
you to direct the allotment or to transfer the said shares to me. DATED this day of 1929.
SIGNATURE
NAME IN FULL
ADDRESS
OCCUPATION


The Equitable Life Assurance
Company of Australasia, Ltd.
Authorised Capital, £2G0,000.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
BRANCHES:
N.S.W. • 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victoria: 360 Collins St., Melbourne.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
df
Jhe purest tobacco only ,
wrapped in snow-white
paper without any trimmings
has made ‘ <c Uhe Qreys” the
best 'Virginia Cigarette .
It's the Tobacco that matters
GREYS
io for Qd. CIGARETTES 2,0 for 1/6
MAJOR DRAPKIN & CO. Branch of the United Kingdom Tobacco Co. Ltd. [NSG9
w Depend On
Wunderlich Quality
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings
Wunderlich Roofing '|\les
Wunderlich “ Durabestos” Building
Sheets
Wunderlich Metal Shopfronts
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
For Forty Years, Manufacturers of Quality
Products for Ceilings, Walls,
and Roofs A
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
* I 6 T
“Dai R.”: A few mornings ago I put on
my shirt (as is my confirmed habit before
going to breakfast), and shortly afterwards
had a sensation as of fine red-hot wire being
plunged into various parts of my back. Hur-
ried removal of the garment disclosed a
five-inch football-jersey centipede, and exami-
nation by an intrigued crowd of fellow-
boarders, who had gathered to listen to my
recitation, revealed 11 distinct wounds.
The barmaid, who was among the crowd,
,raced: downstairs and brought me some
whisky, which she told me to rub on the per-
forations. I didn't, but I felt much better
afterwards, especially when I’d been down
to the bar and didn’t again. But what I
want to know is, how many times a ’pede
can strike effectively without renewing its
reservoir? I asked my fellow-boarders, but
they are an unscientific lot, and their col-
lective reply was, “Why didn’t you find out
when you had the chance?”
* * * *
“FY7”: A Brisbane newspaper has been
discussing an attack made by a herd of dairy
cows on a koala, which they encountered
crossing a paddock. The milky matrons
were using the Norman Lindsay model for
a football when some school children hopped
in and rescued him. When a kid on the
Barcoo, long ago, I had a similar experience
of how a bunch of respectable married cows
can do their block over the unusual. I was
bringing up the station milkers one evening,
when they all began to mill round some ob-
ject on the ground, making noises like a
saxophone sextette. Investigation showed
that the object of their abhorrence was a
plain turkey, which had its wing broken by
somq shooter, and was condemned to pedes-
trianism. In spite of its handicap the bird
battled vigorously, flapping at the charging
Strawberries with its one sound wing in the
gamest fashion. The broken wing had
healed, but not before the fowl had been
reduced to skin and bone, so a stick put an
end to its misery.
THEY ALL STARTED SMALL.
V ISITOR (from Connecticut): “Say, we’re mighty proud of some of our native Red
Indians, y’know. Has your race given birth to any big men?”
MARY: “No, boss —only little-fella baby likem this one.”
“Billy See”: Most people picture the “cat”
of the old convict days as being made of
leather, but any Comptroller who used such
a whip broke prison regulations. The offi-
cial “cat” was made of nine lengths of whip-
cord, which could be knotted if desired.
Applied to a man’s bare back, such a whip
was terrible enough, especially if it had been
used before and was hardened with blood.
But some Comptrollers exceeded the regula-
tions and invented crueller Thus
it is recorded that ovhen John Stephen
Hampton was Governor of Westralia, in the
’sixties, and his son was Comptroller-General,
special whips were made at the Water Police
Barracks, “the cords being plaited treble
and well laid back.” When Chief-Warder
McKenzie took delivery of the articles he
tried each whip on the wooden top of the
mess table, and “the wood was slightly
bruised.” A hundred lashes with such a
whip reduced the most stubborn convict to
penitence.
AMAZING GENEROSITY.
SCHOOLMASTER: “Now, then, what have you two brothers been quarrelling about this
time?”
JONES I.: “He had a napple an’ only give me the core.”
JONES II.: “I give it to him so he could plant the seeds and have a whole orchard to
’imself!”
“P.M.”: Bernard Cronin’s farmer in
“Bracken” who boasted he had not worn a
collar or a tie for 20 years is a true Gipps-
land character. I remember one such old
chap who w T as very . contemptuous of his
neighbors who kept up appearances on
credit. One night he turned up at a euchre
party in the local hall, half-seas over, and
with a discolored handkerchief round his
neck. One of his younger brothers went up
to him. “Look, Charlie,” he said disgustedly,
“you’re the only man here who isn’t respect-
able.” Charlie glared at the assemblage
for a few seconds. “What’s inside me blanky
neck’s paid for,” he growled, “and what’s
round the outside of it is paid for, and that’s
more than half you blankards can say!”
# * *
“Jacques”: Doing some home carpenter-
ing the other day, I was in need of a chisel,
and decided to ask a German carpenter
working a few doors away to lend me one.
“Mose cerdainly,” he replied, “undt I vill
dell you somedinks about dad dool: I vas in
dis coundry tvendy-five years before I could
say ‘yizzel’ properly; und id is zuch an easy
vordt, aind’t it?”
* * * *
“Up Top”: The inseparable companion of
Miss Binghi is the yam-stick. About four
feet long, of walking-stick thickness, it is of
hardwood, pointed at one end, chisel-shaped
at the other and fire-hardened. That stick
digs up tons of food before it is worn out.
A gin will dig four feet down in hard
ground for a deep-rooted yam, scooping out
the dirt with a clawed hand. She makes a
small round hole until her outstretched fin-
gers can reach no further; then, if the yams
still go* down, she must set to work and
widen the hole so as to allow her head
to go down with her arm, and if the hole is
not then deep enough she must widen out
again to allow her body to follow her head.
The yam-stick also comes in handy to thrust
into hollow logs where kangaroo-rat, dingo
pup, ’possum or bandicoot may lurk. It
is poked into burrows to see whether porcu-
pine, snake or rat is at home. It tears into
the rotted grass tree and palm and dislodges
the fat white grubs. On the seashore it
is plunged deep into the mud in search of
hidden crabs and prodded down to discover
shellfish. In the rocky pools it searches under
ledges for fish, and into coral burrows for
the big mangrove crabs.
* * * *
“E.S.”: Near the Mulligan River (Q.) are
several natural soda fountains, and in one
deep pool of highly impregnated water from
one of the springs a man can float upright
with his shoulders well above the surface.
A stranger plunging into it for the first time
wonders what has happened to him. He
bounces and bobs about like a cork, especially
if he be fat. The blacks used the pool to
prophesy the weather. An old wizard dived
in with a heavy stone in each hand and
another Binghi pushed him down by the
heels. Probably the temperature of the
water at the bottom gave the wise man his
clue, but the blacks reckoned he went down
to consult a spirit that dwelt in the depths.
The stones were left below as an offering to
the oracle.
# * * *
“Alastor”: The death-adder strikes with
great power when about to thrust its hollow
poison fang into its victim. A railway
porter at Chinchilla (S.-W. Q’land), on
arriving at the platform on a dark night,
put his hand lamp, unlighted, on the ground
and immediately he heard three loud taps
on the glass, as if a stone had been thrown
from somewhere. Striking a match, he
found a death-adder, 2ft. 6in. in length, still
furiously knocking its hollow tooth against
the glass. He was thankful for the warning.
By the way, how many times can or does a
•‘deatliie” strike?
* * * *
“Hairpin”: “Gustave” (B. 2/l/’29) is
right concerning Binghi’s inborn penchant for
tapping folk on the head. Years ago a
squatter took from the camp a two-year-old
orphaned abo. infant and reared him until
the boy was 20. Jacky never lacked money,
tobacco, good clothes and riding gear. Camped
one evening, after a horseback journey, the
squatter hung his pocket mirror on a sap-
ling and commenced to shave. While so
doing he glimpsed in the glass Jacky sneaking
on him with uplifted tomahawk. Swinging
round he demanded savagely. “What’s the
joke, Jacky?” “Oh, nothin’, Boss.” But Boss
thought otherwise, and jerking out his re-
volver shot the nigger dead.
(Continued on page 25.'*
MAKING HOME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the day was swiftly closing in a
scented evenglow,
And our horses turned upon the homeward
way,
Though we’d mustered, dogged and drafted
till the sun was sinking low
We forgot the things that irked us through
the day.
There was much to try our tempers—crazy
lambs and stubborn ewes,
Hasty words that put our mateship to the
test —
But the evening spell was on us, and our
bitterness we’d lose
As we cantered to a homestead in the
West.
Making home
While the box-tree shadows lengthened on
the loam.
Eagerly our horses bore us
To the meal and rest before us.
And as friends we rode and jested making
home.
When the droving trip was ended, and we’d
parted with the sheep
After many a week that seemed a month
and more,
Coaxing miserable laggards with their
stronger mates to keep
Where the thirsty miles and shadcless
stretched before,
We Jorgot the dust we swallowed on the
stock-route day by day
As the squatters kept us to the narrow
track,
Flies and heat and grassless stages when
afar the water lay,
All forgotten in. the joy of turning back!
Making home;
To a quiet old bush town our thoughts would
roam.
And light-hearted was each rover
As he droned the old songs over
On the track that seemed more friendly
making home.
Mow another day is closing, and the long-
drawn twilight hour
Folds a cool green south land in its waning
light.
Forest depths in gloom are shrouded, and
the snowy peaks that tow’r
Slowly vanish in the dusky pall of
night....
’Tis a land of peerless beauty, river, moun-
tain, lake and hill,
But the night is rife with, thoughts of
western ways;
And a sudden homesick longing comes to one
-—a bushman still —
For the tracks he rode in youthtime’s
saddle days.
Making home;
Far beyond the coast where snowy breakers
foam,
J.s the deeper shades are falling
Through his dreams a voice is calling, _
And an exile’s thoughts to-night are making
home.
MAORILAND.
RIVERINA.


SUMMER SKIN TROUBLES!
/
\
r,
“Last summer I had a frightful time
with prickly-heat,” says Miss K. Cook,
Kennedy-terrace, Ithica, Brisbane. “The
irritation was so persistent that I could
not keep my hands from the itchy sur-
faces ; and the more I scratched the worse
the places became. Weeping eczema broke
out and my torture was almost unbear-
able.
“On a friend’s advice I applied Zam-
Buk to my raw skin and its soothing
effect was surprising. Zam-Buk quickly
dried up all discharge and covered the
tender parts with new, healthy skin. I
kept on using Zam-Buk unti I was com-
pletely clear of the awful fiery eruptions.”
Sunburn, Rashes, Prickly Heat,
Eczema, Sore Feet, Insect Bites, etc.
JF your skin is chafed, rashy or irritated by wind or
sun, or poisoned by insect bites, you can always
rely upon Zam-Buk to quickly soothe and heal.
Being a highly-refined herbal balm, Zam-Buk
is able to soak through the tiny pores of the skin
and exert a purifying influence on the whole of the
underlying tissues.
With its germ-killing property Zam-Buk eradi-
cates disease like no other preparation, and is at the
same time most soothing. Zam-Buk is a real skin-
grower.
A handy box of this ever-ready healer is also
an excellent first-aid for cuts, bruises, burns, sprains,
etc.
Zam-Buk Balm, 1/6 a box or 3/6 family size; Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap, 1/- a tablet
or 2/10 box of three, of Chemists and Stores everywhere
YOU CAN HEAL THEM ALL WITH
sd
r s
HO
u
m
v - 4
Illustrates complete Stove
folded up, like a suitcase.
r
roi\gvc\a
N 0.2
Minim
PRICE:
Stove with high collaps-
ible stand .... 102/6
Stove without collaps-
ible stand 84/-
For Your Next Trip l
We’ve got just the stove you’ll want
for your next camping, touring, fishing or
hunting trip! It’s the Coleman—the Camp
Stove years ahead! Makes camp cooking a
real pleasure instead of a hard job.
(oleman Qm B Stove
The “Coleman” has many new features that
v/ill interest you.. Everything built-in—Hot-
Blast Generator that gives full cooking heat in
2 minutes; Swinging Fuel Tank; Built-in Pump,
Oven, Wind Baffles, and Warming Cabinet.
Cooks anything you want, any style. Fuel is
common motor gasoline. Folds up like a suit-
case. Come in and see it.
Lights and cooks in any wind. This Stove can be
lit anywhere—-on a ship, on a pier, in a tent, in a
home, in a gale, in the rain. Full cooking heat
can be obtained in one minute. Coleman Camp
Stove bakes, roasts, fries, boils, toasts and grills.
Easy to set up, easy to start, easy to cook when-
ever you want and whatever you want.
THE COLEMAN STOVE IS COMPLETE IN ITSELF.
Quick Hot-Blast Starter —Full cooking heat in one minute—any time, any
place. Uses common motor gasoline as fuel.
Built-In Pump —Right in end of tank; no chance to get lost or damaged.
Tank Always Connected —Swings on swivel hinge—outside for cooking,
inside when stove is packed for carrying.
Built-In Wind BafHe and Warming Cabinet —Makes cooking easy in any
weather. Keeps the scones warm while you fry the eggs and boil the
coffee. . '
Built-In Oven and Drum Heater —Just the thing for baking or broiling.
Built-In Funnel —Combined with fuel intake and hand-operated filler plug.
“LIGHT, HEAT AND COOK THE COLEMAN WAY”
COLEMAN QUICK-LITE
CO. OF AUSTRALIA
185 William Street, Mel-
bourne, Cl, Victoria.
718 Harris Street, Ultimo,
Sydney, N.S.W.
31 Bower Building, Charles
Street, Adelaide, S.A.
•..r.
Illustrating Stove with oven all
set up.


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ADFIELDS
AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS —DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadfields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and l Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Foundries i Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch l 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Office j T. & G. Building, Brisbane. Q_
A WONDERFUL BODY BUILDER
fsd
MY ADVICE
TO YOU!
TAKE
A.B.
TONIC WINE
RELIEVES
EXHAUSTION
AB
AB
TRADE MARK
REGISTERED
BUILDS UP
THE SYSTEM
AFTER ILLNESS.
fs
Obtainable everywhere throughout Australia—
CHEMISTS, LICENSED GROCERS, HOTELS, etc.
supplier. srr"^;' Sydner -
» ” West Australia i irvine & McEachem, Brisbane Street, Launceston.
„ „ Tasmania \ Fev<mson & Co., Murray Street, Hobart.
Sole Proprietors: ARNOLD BROS., A.B.°Building, 527-529 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
“Gouger” : The tiger and the hammer-headed
sharks are the species most feared by native
divers. The Torres Strait islanders call the
hammer-head the “mamoose of sharks.”
Against one species in particular, subterfuge
is useless, they say. He can get a man any
time and cut him in halves with a snap.
Should the skin diver when down below see a
shark cruising near, he glides to the bottom,
hangs on to the coral or a stone to keep him-
self down and prays for the shark to pass by,
which he will do if he has not seen the boy.
Otherwise Mr. Shark is likely to glide away
into the gloom preparatory to prowling back.
When the shark has vanished or is just on
the turn the boy makes a frantic break for
the surface. Everything then depends on
speed. But the shark, instead of gliding
away, may come and nose the boy, endea-
“THE OPEN ROAD.”
voring to secure a bite. The boy presses
his belly well into the sand, ana frantically
strives to thrust his thumb into the green,
glassy eyes. Should be succeed in scaring
the beast off he lights out for the surface
before his wind is finished and before the
inevitable return of the shark. A hammer-
head or tiger shark will rarely allow him-
self to be bluffed. When he is cruising down
below a tiger shark’s appearance would put
the wind up any man. In the water, every
detail of him is startlingly vivid. His gills
are working all the time. This movement
discloses ivory teeth in two rows gleaming
between thick, compressed lips. His stripes
are magnified and much more distinct than
when the beast is on the surface. His eyes
appear very big and flaming green. His
lithe body advertises a savage strength. I’ve
looked him in the eye, and I know.
“Myalla”: “The Rumpus” (B. 2/l/’29) is
right when he asserts that white ants will
worry through strange materia] to get at
choice timber, but they are not always satis-
fied with wood, unfortunately. A lady
friend of mine was staying in a weather-
board house in the country, the rooms of
which were nicely papered. On arrival she
hung up her best dress (a brown Jap silk)
in a corner of the room. Two days’ heavy
rain came on, and when the weather cleared
again and she took down the dress to wear,
she was horrified to find the part touching
the damp wall alive with vermin. Big holes
in the bodice and nearly all the back of the
skirt were eaten away by clinging masses of
white ants, which had travelled some dis-
tance along the foundation, then climbed the
wall to a crack in the board, and chewed
big holes in the paper to get through to the
delicacy.
* * * *
“Wrash”: For laborious and slow pro-
gression, the sheath caterpillar must hold
the insect record. Laden with a weighty
armor of sticks and stalks of grass, he can-
not discard his house when on trek. To
haul the load he is provided only with a
pair of nippers, and on each side three
tiny legs that extend backwards no farther
than an eighth of an inch from his head.
He advances by grasping in his jaws some
object ahead of him. After a round-about
survey lie seizes a blade of grass or a stone,
and painfully labors to its summit. Then
with great exertions lie levers his sheath
over tail-end foremost, and drops back to
earth, maybe not a quarter of an inch from
where he commenced the ascent. If a smooth
surface comes in his way he uses his horny
mandibles to cut steps for a foothold, and
from dust or sand he turns back to seek an
easier pathway. It takes him weeks to cross
a lawn and days to climb a paling fence.
But he is never in a hurry, and sometimes
will hang in one position on a fence or wall
for months. Where his sustenance comes
from in the meantime is a mystery.
* sjc * *
“Billy See”: In his secret rites and cere-
monies Binghi uses considerable quantities
of blood drawn from his own body. But
the old men know that such a loss of cor-
puscles during a long corroboree would con-
stitute a serious drain on their vitality, so
they used “wilgie” (red ochre), which, when
wetted with water, looks much like blood.
All over Australia deposits of ochre exist,
and most of them have been picked at from
time immemorial. One of the largest is
the Wilgie Mia, the mountain of iron-ore
which forms part of the Weld Range, Mur-
chison (W.A.). This deposit, which is almost
pure hematite, is roughly some 200 ft. in
width and forms a ridge three miles in
length, rising in many places to a height of
400 ft. above the surrounding country. An
estimate of the amount of iron-ore in sight
and above ground is 26,500,000 tons. Great
seams of pure ochre run through the main
mass, and for countless generations Binghi
has dug and carried away the treasure until
now the hills are riddled with big caves
and hollows. The old men declared the
Wilgie Mia to be taboo and guarded by
Mundong the devil. Only with much whirl-
ing of bull-roarers and muttering of incan-
tations could it be approached; and the
medicine-men had to be bribed with emu
meat and eggs before they would undertake
the job. Once Mundong was scared off the
wilgie could be dug for the rest of the day,
but woe to the man who left his footprint
behind! Mundong would follow him to the
camp and kill him as he slept. Returning
to camp the oldest medicine man brought up
the rear, carefully obliterating all tracks
until the safety zone of the surrounding
plain was reached.
"Gustave”: The secret caves referred to
by “Fingerpoiut” (B. 2/l/’29) must be
relics of one of the earliest types of abo.
which inhabited this continent. In West-
ralia abo. drawings and carvings are found in
caves, but the things depicted don’t deal with
sex, and until “Fingerpoint” mentioned it I
had never heard of sex being represented in
abo. art. Westralian drawings and carvings
symbolise figures of great warriors or extra-
ordinary events which have occurred amongst
the tribes. Amongst the subjects dealt with
is the “kajoorda,” or evil snake spirit, which
legend states exists for the destruction of
abos. In the Glenelg valley is a cave where
a huge figure peers down at the intruder.
It is painted red and white, whilst the roof
is painted black, serving to throw the lighter
colors into greater prominence. Innumerable
carvings and drawings of the sun, and of
heads, hands and figures are also found.
A SERIOUS PROBLEM.
CASEY: “Poor McCarthy! Sick he do be, and ye oughtn’t be givin’ ’im beer in the
back yard, ’tis my opinion, mind ye.”
DONOVAN: “But the doctor beyant told Mrs. McCarthy that he must take some outdoor
recreation, and what other recreation is there poor McCarthy can take?"
“Larrapinta”: For a man to say that lie
lias been killing insects by shooting them one
at a time with a shotgun is asking the Abo.
council to call him a liar, I know; but any-
one who visited my apiary last month could
have seen me doing it—and heard me using
enough curses to last me a year in normal
times, too. I had 30 young queen bees,
reared from my best stock, set out in nucleus
hives to mate, but just when they were due
to go out on their wedding flights a horde of
dragon-flies appeared and began to snap up
bees wholesale —ray young queens among
them—with the result that only two queens
returned safely and started to lay. I reared
another batch of queens, and, after trying
to catch the dragon-flies with a butterfly-net,
I hit upon the desperate expedient of buying
cartridges loaded with dust-shot and shoot-
ing the flies. I doubt if I averaged a hit
for every two cartridges, and I fired the gun
until my shoulder ached, but it was well
worth the expense, for 23 queens came home
safely. But I wish I knew of some easier
method of dragon-fly slaying.
* * * *
“Ller”: Does anyone know how to stop
parrots from taking fits? I have had three,
and each one died in a fit at three years
of age. I have two more young birds, and
I don’t want a repetition. Incidentally, one
of the deceased birds was a great talker,
and the day before he went to the feathered
heaven my wife almost smothered him with
a dish of water. He made a terrible fuss
and I went to soothe him! “Silly boy!” I
crooned. “Silly boy be damned!’’ he snapped.
“What price fhe cyclone?”
He * * *
“Country Ped.” : The anopheles—the little
grey niosquito that carries malarial pro-
tozoa in its body—is found further south
than Leeton (N.S.W.), where Dr. Harris, the
Brisbane entomologist, has discovered it.
Anopliclines were found before the Avar on
the Murray River by Dr. J. A. Leach, bird-
man and naturalist; and if a survey were
made it is more than probable that the same
devilish insect would be found in increasing
quantities in the irrigation districts of
Northern Victoria. Dr. Argyle, Victorian
Minister of Health, has admitted that the
climate there is suitable for the development
of malaria, and that at Kerang he had seen
a case of inertia similar to those inves-
tigated by Dr. Harris at Leeton.
* * * *
“Murkah”: I enter this as the Australian
record portage. Late one afternoon in the
golden days of the Palmer field (N.Q.) a
miner fell and sustained a broken thigh and
other injuries. The nearest doctor was at
Cooktown, 150 miles away, and the only
way to get the injured man there was to
carry him. There were, of course, plenty
of volunteers. A stretcher was hastily im-
provised and at evening six men set out
on the long and difficult journey. The coun-
try thereabouts is steep, but day and night,
with only short intervals for rest, the little
cavalcade moved steadily forward. Two men
shouldered the burden while three rested,
the sixth going ahead to boil the billy.
Cooktown was reached early on the fifth day
—a wonderful feat of endurance. Hie ln "
jured man was hack at his claim in four
months.
* * * *
“Uramao” : Two lucky motorists in Maori-
land dropped across a fortune floating in
the tide near Ivaipara Heads the other day
in the shape of a lump of ambergris weighing
2241 b. and estimated to run into four figures
in value. Stewart Island at the opposite end
of M.L. is the happy hunting-ground for
the ambergris fossicker. There lives the
Ambergris King, Adam Adamson. A recent
bag of his was 3499 ounces, valued at £B5O.
About seven years ago John Leask kicked up
a lump of ambergris in Mason’s Bay (Stew-
art Island) which turned the scale at 2000
ounces. Some fossickers train dogs to smit
out the stuff. Their sense of smell proves
invaluable, and they can he taught to go
into the surf and bring pieces to land.
* * * *
“Boron” : The outsize in ants with which
“Castleton” was unfortunate enough to
come into contact (B. 9/l/’29) was pro-
bably Myrmecid gulosa, or “red bulldog,
its average size is about two inches, but
specimens up to three and even 31 inches
in length have been recorded. The chief
feature of the species is its jaws, which are
very long and equipped with irregular and
serrated edges by means of which it can
get a grip on flesh that there is no breaking.
In addition, these ants are provided with a
stinging apparatus enabling them to inject
a dose of poison, the effects of which often
remain for several days. Some years ago
a timber-getter in the Killarney (Q.) dis-
trict had the bad luck to run foul of a nest
of these giants and received about 20 stings,
mostly on his legs and arms. He spent
nearly three weeks in hospital and suffered
acute agony all the time.
THE TEAMS OF YESTERYEAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where are the teams of yesteryear
The waggons of the western roads.
That strung the ways with leagues of gear
And piled on high their record loads/
The Pride of Bourke and Bonny Jean
That creaked in company
With gay Doreen and Eulo Queen
And' spacious Nancy Lee?
A thousand horses plodded through
The dust and mud to Faraway;
A thousand long-liorned bullocks, too,
Processioned slowly day by day;
With Black-eyed Susan hard in tow,
The Ladybird and Joan,
Ali in a row with Kitty Crow,
The Flirt and Belle Mahone.
The hills resounded with the crack
Of urging whips, the roar of tongues,
As Jingling Joe and Greenhide Jack
And other knights of leather lungs
Wound up a pinch by rock and tree,
Escorting Daisy Bell
With Fancy Free and Sweet Mane
Close-trailing Little Nell.
Old camps by creeks and billabongs
Were musical with tinkling bells,
While men commingled tales and songs
With rosy dreams of grassy dells;
Where Molly Riley and The Bride,
The gem of all her class,
Stood side by side with Bona Fide
And far-famed Blayney Lass.
What pride was theirs in Saucy Kate,
Her trusty team and towering load,
The Dancing Fairy and her mate
When they were mouarchs of the road !
Rut gone are now the toiling throng,
Mermaid and Pioneer,
That rolled along by right or wrong—
The teams of yesteryear.
N.S.W.
E. S. SOERENSON.


Our Service Department
Wants.
readers * S page * S Set apart for the ser vice of Bulletin
. entirel y ree - All you have to do is
last Button toTand. tlle iMide bact MTep ot
coupons?^ 18 oblig:ing with replies need not attach
Wanted to sell or to let” notices are not admissible.
Good shoveller will give reasonable divvy
for long job shovelling; anywhere.—8462.
Licensed mechanic, used to motors,
steam-, gas- and oil-engines, stationary or
travelling, abstainer, seeks position any-
where.—8545.
Young man, 22 (Vic.), three years’ ex-
perience sheep, cattle and all station work,
book-keeping, drive car, desires permanent
position on sheep or mixed station. —8419.
Lady, three years’ experience with country
doctors as dispenser and secretary, desires
similar position.—8465.
Person to finance business in Tas., about
£1000, quick returns, mainland market.
Financier can have personal supervision and
half profits.—8581.
Teacher with copyright of valuable courses
seeks publicity agent who can furnish £1000
and look after outside sales. (To P.O. Box
1142, Brisbane.)
Young man (22), English public-school
education, wishes position private secretary
or companion to gentleman travelline to
U.S.A.—8230.
Young professional man (B.A. Syd.) will
coach pupils, backward adults, English,
Latin, French or Law subjects.—S493.
Australian, University education, general
manager N.Z. co. from inception, desires
position in a manufacturing organisation. Go
anywhere.—8348.
Young woman seeks post as travelling
companion to lady. Nursing qualifications,
secretarial experience, cultured and com-
panionable.—8555.
Competent governess desires' position in
refined Q’land country home; excellent testi-
monials.—8617.
Gardener, Sydney, good credentials, dis-
engaged end of February, seeks position
town, country or Pacific Islands.—8622.
Young man (25), ex-ship’s apprentice,
wants work in the Islands or elsewhere,
strong, healthy.—8603.
Young lady (Melbourne) with plenty of
spare time, requires typing to do at home.
Work called for and delivered. Would take
part-time position.—8620.
English miner, recent arrival, wants work
N.S.W., any nature. Position desperate.
Urgent.—8626.
Middle-aged woman, capable, wanted for
light general duties; no children; Far West
(N.S.W.).—8290.
Ex-chief petty officer, R.A.N. (48), fore-
man rigger steel structural work, knowledge
concrete work, can handle labor, wants posi-
tion anywhere. Refs—8558.
Returned soldier (42), customs, shipping,
banking and general office experience, wants
position Java, Singapore or New Guinea
offering prospects of advancement.—S575.
Experienced horticulturist in Murray Val-
ley zone (S.A.) will exchange ideas and
information regarding drying, packing, can-
ning, wine-making, distilling and cultural
problems with any person interested in this
class of business. South African and foreign
inquiries welcome.—8579.
Young man wants position on station any-
where. Can ride, drive car and make run-
ning repairs; has held responsible positions.
—8572.
Qualified mechanical engineer, 14 years’
experience, India, Burma and South
America, wishes to re-enter trade; been
banana-farming in Q’land. —8513.
Boy (13) would like to correspond with
boy about same age in U.S.A. or France.
(To Ian Hamilton* Burleigh Heads, Q.).
To correspond with collectors of air-mail
stamps. (To “Stradbroke,” 57 Gurwood-
street, Wagga, N.S.W.)
To buy, small week-end cottage or camp,
close to good blackfish grounds, North or
South Coast, N.S.W. —8537.
To buy “The Emperor of Portugalia” and
“The Story of Gosta Berling,” by Selma
Lagerlof; "The Serving Woman’s Son,” by
August Strindberg; “Red Rust,” by Cornelia
Carmon. —8585.
To buy war medals and decorations, also
books, cigarette cards or anything describing
medals.—8595.
To exchange postage stamps with Bulle-
tin readers in the Islands or abroad. (To
Frank R. Treatt, Tredinnock, Young,
N.S.W.)
N.S.W. reader would like to correspond
with Bulletin readers, either sex, interested
in reading and travel. —8526.
To correspond with Bulletin readers in-
terested in short-wave telephony reception.
(To F. Ellis Robertson, Cobramunga, Ker-
ang, Vic.)
To correspond with young lady, Mel-
bourne, interested in travelling, foreign
countries, etc. —8559.
Words in Latin and English of “Ave
Maria, ’ sung by John McCormack. (To
II. A. Johnson, care W. A. Winton, private
bag, Port Lincoln, S.A.).
Words of “The Outlaw,” by Adam Lind-
say Gordon. (To C.N.S., Humbert River
Station, Katherine, N.T.)
Whereabouts of Capt. (Dr.) Shelley, 9th
Light Horse Regt., Sept.-Oct.,. 191S. (To
W. Furness, 10 Claire-street, Lower Mitcham,
S.A.)
Information Sought.
(1) The total mileage of privately-owned
railways in Australia? (2) How many
private railways cos. are there? (3) What
are the lines mainly used for? (4) Where
can information about each of the cos. be
procured? —8614.
(1) (a) For genera! traffic, 972 miles
-2 chains, (b) For special purposes, 2088
nines 3S chains. (2) Returns were received
from 30 companies last year. (3) Hauling
timber, firewood, sugar-cane, coal and so
forth. In many cases the lines are practi-
cally unballasted and easily removable. But
the Silvertou Tramway Cos. for many years
handled all the ore and other traffic of
Broken Hill, and still handles four-fifths of
it. (4) “Transport and Communication Bul-
letin, No. 18,” issued by the Commonwealth
Bureau of Census and Statistics. Melbourne.
How cun I learn to recognise the different
Queensland trees, with a view to selecting
those suitable for use in construction work?
—8358.
Get a copy of “The Timbers and Foi'est
Products of Queensland” (Os. Gd. paper
bound, 9s. Od. cloth bound) ; from this pub-
lication you should be able to recognise the
trees in your district and learn their value
for any particular work. Doubts as to the
identity of any tree may be dispelled by
sending specimens of leaves, with flowers
or fruits, and a wood sample to the Provi-
sional Forestry Board, George-street, Bris-
bane.
(1) What rate of exchange is charged on
Australian banknotes in London? (2) How
can I transfer money in Vic. State Savings
Bank to London so that it would be readily
accessible in small sums whenever I required
it? —8485.
(1) At present, 375. Gd. per cent.; mini-
mum of Gd. (2) At any branch of the Sav-
ings Bank you can arrange to transfer
money to the London agency of the bank,
Victoria House, Strand. The ruling rate
of exchange (at present 12s. Gd. per cent.)
would be charged; money bears interest at
four per cent, while in transit. Account in
London may be used as an ordinary savings
bank account.
Some hints on bacon-curing. Is wet or dry
curing advisable, and should saltpetre be
used? —B4ls.
The dry method is the most satisfactory
and the bacon it produces generally the
most palatable. Saltpetre is chiefly used
for its coloring qualities, but is not abso-
lutely necessary. A standard recipe: Allow
lib. common salt to every 201 b. bacon, and
add to it Hb. saltpetre and 11b. coarse brown
sugar.. Mix the salts and sugar, and rub
well into the bacon every day, turning it
daily, and drawing off the brine which forms.
Three weeks will be required for curing,
when the bacon may be finally drained and
hung up to dry. It may be smoked for an
hour over a clean wood-fire which has no
flame. The curing must be done on a wooden
bench, or in a wooden or enamel tub.
How many turns of wire-bank wound on a
2-inch former are required to tune in to 2 BL,
4QQ and 2 FC, when used in conjunction
with a 0.00015 MF tuning condenser? —Bs27.
As regards 2FC, 130 turns of No. 28 gauge
D.C.C. wire will tune in when shunted with
a capacity of 0.00015MF; but unless your
condenser capacity and the self capacity of
the inductance are very small, you will be
unable to tune in 2BL. The usual capacity
required to tune in the broadcast band is
0.00025MF. It will probably be necessary
to connect a . 0.0001 fixed condenser across
the variable in such a way that it can be
quickly removed when not required. If
this is done, reduce the number of turns to
about 85, using the same gauge wire.
Is tlie cut-out in a battery-charging circuit
in series or in parallel with the supply? —-
8410.
An automatic cut-out consists of two coils
wound on a common core. One coil consists
of a few turns of low-resistance wire and is
in series with the supply; the other coil
consists of a large number of turns of fine
wire and is shunted across the supply.
Does a battery eliminator affect the selec-
tivity of a broadcast receiver? —Bs2B.
The selectivity of any receiver depends
upon the efficiency of the aerial earth-system,
the number and efficiency of the tuned R.F.
circuits, the method of coupling the R.F.
stages, and also the means employed for re-
pressing oscillation. The receiver II.T. sup-
ply, whether dry-cells, accumulators or
rectified A.C., does not enter into the question
of selectivity.
(1) A recipe for staining and polishing
pine floors? (2) A recipe for making a
linoleum polish? (3) How to clean and
polish old silky-oak? —8411.
(1) Crystals of permanganate of potash
(Condy’s) dissolved in hot water. Try on
a piece of board for the desired tint, and
add crystals till the color is right. Apply
with an old brush or rag on a stick, as the
stuff destroys brushes. Polish with a mix-
ture of shredded beeswax dissolved in tur-
pentine to the consistency of paste, applying
very little at a time, and rubbing along the
grain of the boards. It takes some time to
get up a good surface on new wood. (2)
Two and half ounces beeswax, 1 cup turpen-
tine. 1 dessertspoon cloudy ammonia, 1 cup
boiling water. Shred wax and melt all to-
gether over heat, stirring occasionally. Keep
away from direct flame, as the mixture is
inflammable. Use sparingly, and polish
briskly. (3) Equal parts of linseed oil raw,
turpentine, vinegar and methylated spirit.
Mix and shake well.
(1) Can a bankrupt be held in gaol in
U.S.~W. until he has satisfied the claims of
his creditors? (2) What is a ca. sa. order?
SSOO.
(1) A bankrupt can be held in gaol inde-
finitely in N.S.W. for certain debts, such as
neglect to satisfy a maintenance order or
libel damages. (2) A writ of ca. sa.
(“Capias ad satisfaciendum” or “take to
satisfy”) is one directing that the defen-
dant be taken into custody, and it is issued
after judgment.
Would a lad who has received part of his
secondary education in N.S.W. and part in
Queensland be eligible for a Queensland
Rhodes scholarship f —8133.
Yes, provided he has completed at least
two years of a degree course at the Q’land
University.
Can you give me. an outline of what
Einstein’s theory of relativity really isf —
82(57.
The subject-matter of Einstein’s theory of
relativity belongs to mathematical physics
and is chiefly concerned with the phenomena
of the physical world—space, time, relative
motions of bodies and, in the later develop-
ment of the theory, gravitation. One of the
fundamental principles of the theory is that
it is .impossible to prove by mechanical
means that the world of material bodies
accessible to our senses has a common rec-
tilinear motion. Secondly, that if an
observer moving towards a source of light
measures the velocity of the light relative
to himself he will obtain the same result
no matter how rapidly he moves. These
principles lead to conclusions in conflict
with earlier-accepted theories only when the
relative velocities of the observer and his
surroundings approach that of light. For
velocities of objects ordinarily met with,
relativistic mechanics reduce to the classical
Newtonian mechanics.
What is the method of recording and re-
producing speech in “movietone" films? —
8405.
The sound is recorded photographically on
film in a narrow space adjacent to the pic-
tures. Perfect synchronisation is assured,
because picture and sound record are made
at the same time in the same camera. Tie-
sound vibrations are received in a high-
quality microphone. The varying currents
thereby produced in the microphone are in-
creased by amplification and passed through
a special glow discharge tube called an Aeo
light. The light from the Aeo tube shines
through a narrow slit, and is brought to
focus by lenses upon the film as a narrow
crosswise line. When the film is developed
the sound record appears as a series of
alternate light and dark lines of varied
space and density. In reproduction the
film is run through a standard moving-
picture projector fitted with a sound attach-
ment ; in this a beam of light shines through
the sound record and emerges varied in in-
tensity and frequency due to the sound lines.
The varying light falls upon a light, sensitive
device known as a photo-electric cell, and
causes electrical variations corresponding to
the original sound variations. These are
amplified and conducted to a powerful loud-
speaker directly behind the moving-picture
screen. The sound is thus in perfect syn-
chronisation with the picture appearing on
the screen.
Qualifications for position of assistant
in Melbourne Public Library? Age limit
and salary? —B4o6.
Candidates must be not less than 15 nor
more than 21 years of age. They must have
passed examinations qualifying them to enter
the University of Melbourne, or such exami-
nations as the Public Service Commissioner
may deem equivalent, and must have passed
in English and two other languages. Com-
mencing salary is £lO4 per annum with a
minimum of £2OS at the age of 21. The
maximum salary of Class “E” is £299,
further increases depending on promotion.
Within three years of appointment an assis-
tant is required to pass in at least six sub-
jects in the arts or science course for a
degree at the University, or such examina-
tion as the Commissioner may deem equiva-
lent. An assistant, Class “E,” is eligible
for promotion to Class “D” on attaining the
age of 23, provided he has graduated or can
satisfy the Commissioner that he has linguis-
tic or other special educational qualifications
that may be regarded as equivalent to the
possession of a degree, and has had experi-
ence as an assistant for at least two years.
Ingredients for making kerosene emulsion
and Bordeaux mixture suitable for spraying
eocoanut palms about 50 ft. high? —B36o.
Kerosene is rarely used, miscible oils, such
as Gargoyle (red spraying), having replaced
it. To use kerosene in the proportion of
1 in 20 (as the pest is not mentioned an
approximation only can be made), dissolve
by boiling shredded hard soap in lgal.
water. When soap is dissolved add lgal.
kerosene and churn rapidly for smin., or
work through spray pump until thoroughly
emulsified. Add water to bring up to 20
gallons. No cheap sprayer will force the
liquid 50ft. high ; a good power sprayer fitted
with pistol discharge is necessary. The pro-
portion for Bordeaux mixture is 4lb. stone
lime, 41b. bluestone and 40gal. water. Where
it is difficult to obtain fresh lime 541 b. of
washing soda will have similar effect, the
mixture being Burgundy instead of Bor-
deaux.
Would an Australian school-teacher have
much chance of getting a position in the
U.S. education service? —8288.
Not much. He would have to become per-
manently resident there and secure a
teacher’s certificate, and that would neces-
sitate his soaking himself in American
history, literature, geography, civics, and so
forth. Whether controlled by States, coun-
ties or cities, the American education system
is devised to teach the young American as
much about his own country as he can
absorb. School-teaching in the U.S.A. can
be followed only by persons who have been
previously lawfully admitted there for per-
manent residence. Persons of English or
Australian birth wishing to make application
at this_ time for possible inclusion in the
quota list have to wait from two to four
years; there is a long list of names already
on the waiting list.
(1) Is any part of Kerya Colony suitable
for dairy-farming, and has dairying been
carried on? (2) Where can I get “South and
East African Year Book"? —8507.
(1) Yes: Gilgil- Kijabe, Limuru, Londiani,
Lumbwa. Molo, Nanyuki and Rongai. There
are co-operative creameries and factories in
most of these districts. (2) Through any
representative Australian bookseller. “Eas-
tern Africa To-day,” by F. S. Joelson, is
another publication that throws light on the
subject.
I have an umbrella handle said to be
made of vegetable ivory. What is vegetable
ivory, and where docs it come from? — 8331.
Vegetable ivory is obtained from the
tagua-palm, which grows wild along the
west coast of South America. It is a palm
fern, 10 to 20 feet high, with a short trunk
crowned with large, bright-green feathery
leaves. The fruit is somewhat similar to the
cocoanut, growing in drupes about the size
of a man’s head. A woody fibrous wall
encloses the seeds proper, which are hard,
white and fine-grained, like real ivory.
Brief Answers.
W.P. (Christchurch) : No; it is a private
CO E.H.N.: (1) North. (2) Both dear. (3) The
smelters are mainly dependent upon these two mines.
....(4) But in the case of a mining co. don’t de-
pend too much on liquid surpluses. They have a
horrible habit of disappearing in the struggle to
keep things going.... Perk-up': See Bulletin
18/7/’2B. Last week’s Service Dept, also contained
some particulars of the merger with Castlemaine Cos.
Position should now improve quickly... .T.E.N.: You
won’t make much money by selling when everybody
wants to sell, and buying when everybody wants to
buy. Things may possibly go worse; but they will
come again... .P.W.D.: But you’ve got to complete
the payments if they ask for them ; you’ve contracted
to do it.... Walter C.: (1) Depends chiefly upon
the carrying through of a Greater Sydney scheme.
That done, absorption is likely. (2) Disinclined to
advise a man to buy any share he (uti't pay for in
these uncertain days.. ..A.W.T.: Don’t. Whatever
money you put in will be invested in second mort-
gages, largely on land bought for subdivision, and
not earning a bean meantime... .A.D.: The process
is delicate, and different types of print demand
different treatment; only an experienced cleaner can
hope to make a success of a job. Suggest you get
in touch with S. A. Parker, 210 George-street, Syd-
ney. .. .W.R.M.M.: Kenya Colony, perhaps; suggest
you obtain first-hand information by writing to
Charles Gaitskell, Box 630, Nairobi, or Dept, of
Agriculture, Nairobi... .W.M.0.: Wherever possible
the work on Wyangala dam will be done by machin-
ery. Horse teams can be obtained in the neighbor-
hood, and you would be ill-advised to travel down
with your team... .W.J.C.: The cartridges can be
got from Cowles and Dunn, 453 Kent-street, Sydney.
... .8.N.: Question too vague ; full facts wanted....
M.J.R.: Cherkassky can be communicated with through
E. J. Gravestock, 228 Pitt-street, Sydney.. . .L.S.L.:
(1) Sounds improbable. The paper you mention did
not lay it down as an axiom; it was given as a
contributor’s opinion. (2) Why not write to B. H.
Butchart himself? Firms that handle such goods do
not know the wheel... .M.J.R.: (l) Traffic Branch,
Police Department, 211 Kent-street, Sydney. (2)
Making a search... .D.P.: Don’t go on the off
chance; get first-hand information before going at
all. Dunn and Cos., Durban, or W. Anderson and
Cos., Ltd., Capetown, could supply it... .Plaskett:
Send to N.S.W. Dept, of Agriculture, Bridge-street,
Sydney, for leaflet on “Poisoning Green Timber with
Sodium Arsenite”.... J.H.M.: The only person in
Sydney known to understand the process requires to
be paid for imparting his knowledge. The body to
which you belong recognise Sylvester’s and Schaeffer’s
methods 0n1y... .M. 8.; Write Dept, of Agriculture,
Sydney, which issues excellent pamphlets on the sub-
ject. .. .J.N.; Must pass preliminary examination.
Apply Secretary, Barristers’ Admission Board,
Supreme Court, Sydney: for University fees see
University Calendar (2s. 6d.) or write to the Regis-
trar. LL.B., approx. £120....J.G. (1) Yes. (2)
Forward a written application, addressed Registrar,
University, Carlton, N 3, enclosing 55.; state sub-
jects and dates of the examinations at which they
were passed... .E.G.8.: Wireless receiving sets are
classified under Tariff item 180(E) ; the rates are
35 p.c. ad val. (British Preferential Tariff), 55 p.c.
(General Tariff) ... .K.S.; (l) Only girls who sat for
the Public Service examination concurrently with
their “Intermediate” and who secured a pass are
eligible for appointment as junior clerks, typists,
etc. (2) Insurance cos. and like institutions generally
insist on a standard of education up to the “Inter-
mediate” .... E. J.N.: In the absence of' specimens it
is impossible to advise you how to prevent your
French beans dying off; send fresh specimens (whole
pi; nts) to the Plant Pathologist, Science Branch,
Dept, of Agriculture, Flinders-street, Melbourne....
R. 8.; (1) See reply to 8564. (2) The tenures in
operation in the States are fully explained in the
“Commonwealth Year Book” under the heading “Land
Tenure and Settlement.” (3) Suggest you obtain
Fred Turner’s “Australian Grasses and Pasture
Plants”... .W.E.S.: S. F. Firth and Sons, 46-47 New-
gate-street, London, E.C D.K.: Invalid pensions
are payable to persons over the age of 16 years who
have.been residents continuously for at least five years
and have become incapacitated or blind in Australia:
also to persons permanently incapacitated or blind
by reason of congenital defect if they were brought
to Australia before the age of three years or have
resided in Australia continuously for 20 years. In-
valid pensions are not payable to persons whose re-
latives adequately maintain them... .L.N.P.: (1) If
available, yes; if unavailable, the Duke of York.
There is no precedent for an heir-apparent renouncing
the succession to the throne, and Parliament would
have to sanction the highly improbable contingency.
K.C.: The Duke of York E.G.8.: It is a
common practice; the remedy is to keep birds separ-
ate or to put cockerel with six to ten hens... .M.M.:
Yes, provided she is sufficiently identified in the will.
. ...D.R.: If by his conduct the husband intended to
put an end to the matrimonial state he commits
constructive desertion and the wife is entitled to a
divorce... .P.0.L.: On the facts as stated, your neigh-
bors would be presumed to have a right of way over
the short cut and you would not be entitled to refuse
them the use of it. But this does not apply to ,tbe
general public if habitual use has been confined to
neighbors.. . .R.D.P.: (1) Govt. Labor Exchange, 132
George-street, Sydney, may help... .W.J.M.: “This
will prevent my making sales” is more meticulously
correct, perhaps, than “This will prevent me mak-
ing sales,” but not more so than “This will prevent
me from making sales”... .N.M.: Ordinary white
bottle glass, because of some of the chemical
constituents, sometimes assumes a purplish tinge in
sunlight. The light passing through it is broken up
into the colors of the spectrum, the purplish rays
being most easily distinguishable.... T.W.: Too
vague; state terms of contract and give particulars
of accident C.W.8.: One of a group that had
far better be left alone. They are not within coo-ee
of profits... .33-Years Reader: Depends on how much
risk you are prepared to take. If safety is not over-
whelmingly the first consideration, prefer Morelieads.
Of course, there are plenty safer than either....
J. 8.: Afraid not. They will swear they did, and
you can’t swear they didn’t. (Presumably that was
your registered address.)... .C.U.A.: It can’t be
done with safety. Doubtless people have “got their
interest.” But it may have been paid out of other
deposits.... (Many others mailed.)


ANOTHER TRIUMPH for
ALL-BRITISH STERNOL MOTOR OIL
rn
MWR*
WjOw/635 10MXW 30 15TH 2 3 PM
<
'Viaßedm'
W.T ADAMS SYDNEY ..
QUH t.fTTEfI 24- OCTOBER 895 MISS OEHAVILAND CABLES HAS
CROSSED AMERICA SUCCEESIULIY CLIMBING MOUNTAINS AMD
PASSING THROUGH DESERT BABY AUSTIN BEHAVING PERfcCTIV
LUBRICATED EXCI.VSiVELY BY STFRWJL
CENTUMVIS..
MARK
YWB
BBPIY
"Vl*
b uaur
■■Ml.:.'-, 1 '" ■ n JL*r:.Z..
>»*■* 17BKMB
: *v.f if* yTT >V
**¥»
J
Hy
All British
Exact Grades
for every class
- of Engine
Stems Ltd.
Miss De Havilland, who
is touring the world in a
baby “AUSTIN” car, is
using STERNOL Motor
Oil exclusively throughout
the entire trip. This is
just another proof of the
consistency and reliability
of this ALL-BRITISH
Motor Oil.
You, too, can get sweeter
running, more power,
and increased liveliness
from your engine by using
STERNOL MOTOR OIL.
There is a grade to suit
every make of car.
I STERNOL has been used for the last nine years by
THE AUSTIN MOTOR CO., who recommend its use
in all models. It is also recommended by Messrs.
MORRIS MOTORS, LTD., for use in all MORRIS cars.
FREE
We will be pleased to forward ,
on request , a copy of any of the
following Booklets: —
(1) First Aid for the Car.
(2) Hints for Morris Owners.
(3) Notes on the Lubrication
of Austin Cars.
Which one may We send you?
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS
WILLIAM ADAMS <f COMPANY
LI M I T E P
SYDNEY: 175 Clarence Street.
NEWCASTLE: 17 Bolton Street.
MELBOURNE: 521-523 Collins Street.
BRISBANE: 93 Albert Street.
ADELAIDE: 157 Waymouth Street.
PERTH: 432-436 Murray Street.


PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
To choose an outfit at Peapes’
for the trip abroad is to be
assured of every essential but
nothing superfluous.
Peapes t from personal experi-
ence, know just what is required
for every stage of the voyage,
and are thus of great help in
selecting exactly what is re-
auired.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
Royal Agricultural Society of New South Wales.
Royal Easter Show
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY,
27th MARCH to 6th APRIL, 1929.
TEN DAYS SIX NIGHTS.
£14,000 PRIZES £14,000
ENTRIES CLOSE —
WINES 19th February
HORSES ’(including Trotting Events) 16th February
CATTLE 18th February
POULTRY, PIGEONS, CANARiES and CAGE BIRDS, 26th and 2 7th February
DOGS and CATS 28th Fe^ ua 7
AGRICULTURE (including Fruits and Apiculture) Ist March
DAIRY PRODUCE (except Export Classes) Ist March
WOODCHOPPING CONTESTS ~th March
SCHEDULES AND ENTRY FORMS ON APPLICATION.
G. C. SOMERVILLE, Secretary.
Endeavour House, 33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Stockmen!
/'luck 'tyQWlJafo
IfmcAjcxm/tCaAScm
Homebush Yards, or Enoggera Yards,
Sydney, Brisbane.
Auctions in both markets conducted by stock depart-
ment managers. Cattle, sheep, lambs, pigs and calves
all realise top values at the firm’s sales.
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
STOCK SALESMEN,
LTD.
Winchcombe House,
Bridge Street, Sydney,
and
99-101 Eagle Street,
Brisbane.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
WHEAT GERMINATION TESTS.
“Ra”: “Dardadoo” (B. 16/l/’29) ex-
plains how to find the germinating capacity
of seeds and, as this year’s wheat sample
is in most districts a rather pinched one,
some results of testing just completed in
the Wimmera (Vic.) district may be useful.
There are four chief things on which a
sample may be judged, i.c., age, purity,
germinating capacity and size of grains.
This year’s shrivelled sample was tested
against last year’s normal one. It was found
that 403 of last year’s seeds had an equal
weight to 500 of this year’s, showing that
if all the seed in a bushel germinates you
might expect to get one-quarter as many
plants again from this year’s sample as
from last year’s.
In germination, however, last year’s wheat
showed 98 p.c. in three days, while this
year’s reached 75 p.c. in 54 days and 88 p.c.
in 10 days, when it seemed no more seeds
would germinate. Probably the proportion
of failures in the field would be doubled in
the case of both samples. Allowing for this,
76 p.c. of this year’s germinates and 90 p.c.
of last year’s, the relative proportion of
plants from a bushel of seed would be: Last
year’s 96, this year’s (1£ x 76) 95; so that,
if you sow at the normal rate you will get
practically the same number of plants per
acre.
One point that is worth considering is
that the. small seed cannot feed the plant
for as long as the large one, and is more
likely to fail if dry conditions follow sowing.
Also, the large seed gets off the mark earlier.
DOES TOP-DRESSING PAY?
“Curlew”: It is commonly agreed that
top-dressing considerably improves pasture-
lands, giving an increased yield of fodder,
improving the feeding quality and encourag-
ing the growth of clovers. Usually it is
claimed that lewt. super, per acre will
double the quantity of pasture. But ob-
jectors say that if they can rent land at
6s. per acre it pays better to do so than
to apply lewt. super, to similar land at a
cost of about 65., as there is not the labor
of handling the super, and less risk of loss
it the season should prove dry.
Some experiments have been in progress
in the Benalla (Vic.) district for the last
three years under the supervision of the
Department of Agriculture. A plot of 14
acres received no manure (in 1926 or since).
Another similar plot received lewt. super,
in 1926 and none since. The third plot
received 2cwt. super, in 1926 and none since.
The soil is a good red loam. The plots were
harvested and the hay baled. Summarised
for the three years, the weight of cured
hay was: —
, Per Acre
i 926. 1927. 1928. Total,
cwt. cwt. cwt. cvvt.
Unmanured . . 19.9 7.1 16.1 43.1
lewt. super... 35.6 10.1 21.8 67.5
2cwt. super. . . 43.0 16.4 24.0 83.4
Assuming the grazing rental of this land
was Bs. per acre per annum, the rental cost
of the fodder produced during the three
years on the unmanured land would be 11s.
2d. per ton. With super, at 6s. per cwt. the
rental-cam-fertiliser cost per ton on the
land which had the lewt. dressing would be
Bs. lid., while with 2cwt. dressing the cost
over the three years would be Bs. Bd. per
ton. If the labor cost of handling the super, is
taken into account it would seem that there
is something in the contention that you can
grow grass cheaper by renting than by top-
dressing. But one ton of manured hay is
worth much more than that from unmanured
land. The Department of Agriculture is
investigating the food values of the three
samples, and in all probability this will show
that super, very decidedly increases the
economic feeding value of pasture.
ADVANTAGES OF DEEP PLANTING.
“R.X.8.”: I am convinced that all the
advantages are with deep planting so far as
peas, beans, melons, pumpkins and marrows
are concerned, and in the case of the culti-
vation of maize and oats where the rainfall
is not augmented by some form of irrigation.
Each year I have grown trial patches
under similar conditions as regards soil
and cultivation methods. In deep planting
a furrow from four to six inches deep was
thrown out with the plough, and the fer-
tiliser and the seeds of peas, beans, marrows,
pumpkins and melons were spread in the
furrows, which were then closed with
weighted harrows. Maize, oats and swedes
were planted at a depth of four inches by
a mechanical adjustment of the drills. In
shallow planting the seed was sown with the
drills in the usual way.
This dry season the difference in results
between the two methods has been amazing.
The shallow-planted oats are a sparse crop
that is only nine inches in height, and is
seeding before it withers. The deeply-
planted crop is the same height, but it is
thick and green and is still growing. The
shallow-planted maize is a collection of thin
stalks under the usual height, and they are
dying with the cobs still immature. The
deeply-planted stuff is a sti’ong growth with
no sign of cobs yet..
The peas and beans were harvested before
Christmas. The shallow-planted peas (Green-
feast) had a poor crop that averaged
G 2 bushels to the acre at Ss. Gd. per bushel.
After picking the crop died. The deeply-
planted peas averaged DO bushels to the
acre at £1 per bushel, and the growth con-
tinued to be green and healthy, and was fed
off. The shallow-planted Canadian Wonder
beans wore woody and unsaleable; the
deeply-planted ones were a good sample that
brought 9s. per bushel.
The shallow-planted melons, pumpkins and
marrows died out. The deeply-planted ones
did not die, but the plants were no good, in
the absence of rain, for fruiting purposes.
The shallow-planted swedes are 1 no thicker
than my finger, and are’ so hard that they
Thousands of men fail on the land because they don’t know how to
succeed; many thousands more succeed less than they should because
they lack proper guidance. . .
“The Bulletin” wants to encourage farmers and scientists who know
to help those who don t know. ,
With that object it offers two prizes of £20 and £10 for the most
useful contributions to the “Land pages during the six months
ending June 30 next. ... ,
All contributions submitted, whether published or not, will be con-
sidered in awarding points, and the prizes will go to the winners
of most points.
Points will be awarded for interest and practical usefulness.
The prizes are additional to the usual payment for published
contributions.
are valueless. The deeply-planted ones are
a good size, and are tender.
Deeply-planted seed has the advantages of
a feeding area of plant, foods, that have
gravitated downwards with rain soakage,
more moisture and a better grip of the earth.
Be prepared for a dry season, and plant
deeply.
IN PRAISE OF LUCERNE.
“Bad Australian”: I have seen lucerne
(alfalfa) growing at altitudes varying from
a few feet above sea-level to 12.000 ft. and
the growth of the plant was as vigorous at
the higher altitudes during the spring and
summer months as at the lower. From 7000
feet upwards the country was under snow
for three or four months in the year, but
within 10 or 12 days after the disappearance
of the snow, the new growth was sufficiently
advanced to afford grazing for a, broken-
mouthed animal.
Without the immense areas of alfalfa laid
down in the Central Provinces. Argentina
would never have attained its present posi-
tion as a beef-producing country. In addi-
tion to a tremendous increase in carrying
capacity, alfalfa has provided Argentine
stock-owners with a reserve of srreen feed
to supplement the dried-off natural grasses
during the summer months, as. once nrmlv
established, the deep-rooting habits of the
plant render it to a very considerable extent
independent of surface moisture. Through-
out South America horses and other trans-
port animals are fed entirely on alfalfa hay
except where required to do unusually heavy
work, when they are given a ration of maize
in addition.
Back in 1913 I told The Bulletin about
the existence of alfalfa on land more or less
saturated with mineral salts. Flourishing
crops, irrigated with water so brackish as
to be unfit for any other use, were raised
in an absolutely rainless region, while the
land in its natural state produced nothing
but scattered tufts of a wiry herbage known
as “salt grass” and a copious efflorescence ot
mineral salts. The production of these crops
was made possible by sowing on slightly im-
pregnated soil and using the seed from the
first crop on land with a higher percentage
of salt, and so on until a truly astonishing
result was obtained.
MIX FERTILISERS ON THE FARM.
“R.D.A.” • The man on the land who
knows what his particular crop requires in
the way of extra minerals is well advised to
compound the fertilisers himself. . He should
purchase each manurial ingredient . separ-
ately with a guarantee of its purity, in
which case he knows exactly what In: is
getting. By this means he saves money
through not having to pay for ingredients,
perhaps very costly, that his crop does not
require, but which may be included in the
commercially prepared fertiliser that most
nearly fits his requirements. There is the
further advantage that, when fertilisers are
mixed just before use, there is no loss ot
fertilising power, such as occurs during
storage. . . . ...
The process of hand-mixing is neither
laborious nor costly.
Here are a few tips that may help:—
Don’t mix super, with lime or Thomas’s
phosphate (basic slag). Lime destroys the
valuable water-soluble property of super.,
and basic slag contains free lime.
Don’t mix sulphate of ammonia (nitrogen
unit) with lime or Thomas’s phosphate, be-
cause tlie ammonia is set free and lost.
Don’t mix nitrate of soda with super,
unless it is absolutely dry.
Thomas’s phosphate mixes best with
nitrate of soda, and super, with sulphate
of ammonia. .
When requiring potash in the mixture
use potassium sulphate, not the chloride
(muriate). The chloride takes up water
and sets hard.
Don’t mix lime with farmyard manure.
In fact, after liming land don’t apply any
kind of manure or fertiliser for at least
four weeks. . T t
A thorough mixing is all important. Use
a hard and even floor or, for small quanti-
ties, the churn-like dry wheat pickier—that
is, if you don’t mind it being corroded and
spoilt in time.
Caking is the most frequent cause of
trouble with mixed manures*. It is easily
prevented by mixing the manures together in
small lots and using the mixture at once.
Mix not more than will suffice for half a
day’s use, and don’t leave any of the mix-
ture unused over night.
TRIAL PLOTS.
“Minthall”: Most farmers could save a lot
of time and cash by trying out new fodders
and seeds in small trial patches before going
to the expense of planting a big area. Wheat
and maize farmers often have to try variety
after variety before they. light on the sort
that best suits their location. The trial plot
is also useful for the testing of manures.
If an acre or two is set apart there is no-
thing the youngsters would like better than
to keep the records concerning time of plant-
ing, manuring details, growth, maturity and
yield. Don’t pick the best spot on the farm ;
just ordinary cultivation land where the bulk
of the fodder is grown. Seedsmen and the
Agricultural Departments in the various
States will assist with small samples of seeds,
the latter probably buckshee. You can help
not only yourself but other farmers in your
district. If you Care to do the thing pro-
perly one of the State’s agricultural inspec-
tors will give the plot an occasional look-
over, and maybe lecture on the various crops
under observation. Fertiliser companies will
lend a helping hand, too, if it means pushing
their business interests.
ABERDEEN-ANGUS CATTLE FOR
BABY BEEF.
“H.F.W.” : “Bad Australian” (B. 16/l/'29)
attributes to Polled Angus cattle heavier
weights than Shorthorn and Hereford cattle,
but beef of a coarser texture and of a
quality inferior to the latter breeds. Actually
the Aberdeen-Angus breeders aim at produc-
ing a medium-sized beast, with small bone
and carrying a wealth of meat of the finest
texture with the fat evenly distributed
through the meat and a total absence of
rough surface fat.
To show how well this is being achieved
I will quote tw r o authorities. Lt.-Col. T. L>.
Young. Chief Inspector, Smithfield Meat
Market, London, writes: “I have now had
over 30 years’ experience as a meat inspector,
16 of which have been spent as chief at
Smithfield market. I have visited many coun-
tries, especially Argentina, and have never
seen any breed of which I could say ‘This
is better than the Aberdeen-Angus as a
butcher’s bullock,’ their chief points being
smallness of bone in proportion to meat and
uniformity of distribution of fat all over
the body, especially intramuscularly, thus
producing the famous marbled roast beef.”
Andrew Haldane, president of the Scottish
Meat Federation says: “The public are de-
manding more than ever meat of very fine
quality, and it is to Aberdeen-Angus breeders
that we in the meat trade are looking to pro-
duce that meat. We know, when we get sup-
plies from the Argentine and elsewhere, if they
are bred from Aberdeen-Angus cattle by the
amount of waste. There is nothing so
economical in a butcher’s shop as a beast
bred from the Aberdeen-Angus. The greatest
loss in the meat trade is fat and bone.” At
the Sydney Royal Show in the competition
for export steers, established five years ago,
the Aberdeen-Angus pen has been awarded
top points for quality of meat on each
occasion.
This power to produce beef of the finest
quality, combined, as “Bad Australian” ad-
mits. with the ability to resist cold and hold
his own and even pul: on weight where the
Shorthorn and Hereford would lose condi-
tion, makes the Aberdeen-Angus the ideal
beast to produce baby beef.
THE HORSE COMES RACK.
“J.D.” : The shipment of 300 Walers of the
cavalry type to Java is a reminder that the
motor-car lias by no means killed horse trans-
port. In the big Australian cities, as in
London and Paris, the horse is coming back
fast for short journeys; he is cheaper for
any. haul up to seven miles. Australia has
always had plenty of heavy horses of the
right stamp, and there is no shortage now;
but during the war it was combed for every
kind of remount, from animals of the spring-
cart type, which were used for artillery
work, to the lightest of thoroughbreds, and
it is still suffering a recovery. Meanwhile
the world-demand for the very class of animal
which the Commonwealth has always had
a high reputation for producing—thorough-
breds or near-thoroughbreds, with sound legs
and feet and plenty of staying ability—has
greatly increased.
The vogue for cross-country hunting has
spread from Britain to the U.S.A., where
there are now more packs of hounds than
in England, and polo is booming in both
countries. Also, horse-racing is booming all
over the world. In the past Australian
breeders have made a habit of killing a
goose that might have laid golden eggs, by
breeding from inferior sires, by breeding from
unsaleable mares, and, above all, by selling
good mares for export.
So many mares were got rid of to Indian
and other buyers during the early years of
the World War that the Government pro-
claimed an embargo on the export of mares,
and only raised it to the extent of allowing
military buyers to include 40 per cent, of
mares in their drafts when it became evident
that, on the embargo basis, the A.I.F. was
likely to go short of suitable remounts. It
would be a calamity if the same folly were
repeated now that buyers from India and the
tropics are after the Waler again—a horse
which, as one of the buyers from Java above
mentioned said, “has no equal for army pur-
poses.” And it would be something more
than a calamity if, when Americans and,
possibly, Europeans come after Walers of the
hack and hunter type, as they are bound to
do in the next few years, we have to admit
to a shortage of the class of animal required.
OUR MEAT IN BRITAIN.
“Bourri” : Either the cables or the tran-
scriber erred with reference to the inspection
of Australian “chilled beef” recently by
leading Smithfield men, referred to by “Fleet
Street” (B. 9/l/’29). What they inspected
was a small parcel of frozen beef which was
defrosted by anew process. The consign-
ment was treated at the Gladstone meat-
works, and carried by the Port Caroline,
special facilities being provided. The experi-
menters were the Anglo-Australian Defreez-
ing Cos., Ltd., whose long continued efforts
to improve the quality of the thawed article
would appear to have been crowned with
success. Only 10 quarters had been treated
and marketed when the cable was dispatched;
but so impressed were the trade experts that
one big firm —Palmer’s Cold Stores, of Dept-
ford —arranged to have a plant installed at
its expense.


Built for extra-long
wear
A boot with double sole and an
upper reinforced by a lining of soft
leather that increases its comfort
as well.
Hard to beat for easy fit, this Abbey
boot has a broadly-welted sole. Its
lacing curves comfortably over the
instep arch eliminating all strain.
For wet-weather wear or over
rough going there’s no more
durable nor more healthful kind of
boot.
Order by Post.
In every size, three fittings—narrow,
medium and wide are available.
Simply specify width as well as
length when ordering. That en-
sures the best possible fit. Ask also
for the correct Abbey Polish (6d.
per tin).
TAN WILLOW CALF, 47/6
BLACK BOX CALF, 45/-
Enlarged catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 81 years,
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
LllO SYDNEY.
BIRKIYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade-mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop '.wine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
GOUROCK
HOPEWORK
EXPORT CO.
LTD.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Post Your Order
sdf
THE PRINCE
POLEY
Complete.
£l4/14/-
Scnd to-day for
my Hook of lEx-
periences, Post
free.
for the
WIENEKE
PRINCE POLEY
SADDLE.
The World’s Best.
This saddle has special
high grip kneepads,
but the stirrup bars
are free, allowing the
leathers to come away
easily.
Perfect Shape for
Comfort.
No other saddle will satisfy
you if you are a dinkuni
rider.
JOHN WIENEKE,
c/o JOHN BKUSH,
371 George St., Sydney,
and at
434 Queen St., Brisbane.
nc
r c
s' •/,.,
'/.1, U)
Cuticura Talcum
Fragrant And Refreshing
Is ideal for everyday use. Its purity,
combined with antiseptic properties
which help to allay excessive perspir-
ation, make it an essential toilet
requisite.
Soap Is., Talcum 15.3 d.. Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample. Soap and Ointment address:
“R. Tcvwn» & Co.. Sydney, N. S. W.”
j&BS'’" Cuticura Shuvinvr Stick Is. 6d.
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE
J
MADE
HtTISM
Perfection
RITSK RUBBER.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to tlie Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
DO YOU WANT TO ENTER A PROFESSION?
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life. A profession in
which competition is limited and which offers wonderful opportunities if you have any ability
and are persevering. Our tuition gives opportunities to students not to be found elsewhere.
Write for our booklet, telling of positions, salaries and fees, to-day. Start your new career NOW.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED
A.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £250,000
ALL CLASSES OF INSURANCE EFFECTED.
Probate Disability, Extended Insurance, Non-Forfeiture,
Hospital, Medical and Nurse’s Fees Combined.
Make the event which causes the tax create the cash to pay the tax.
HEAD OFFICE: Hunter House, 26 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
McLEAN, Managing Director. R. V. BOOTH, Secretary.
INQUIRIES INVITED.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND AND FINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY. Also at WAGGA & HENTY, LONDON, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE.
Auction Sales t WOOL, FAT STOCK, GRAIN, SHEEPSKINS,
Throughout the Year t HIDES, TALLOW, FURRED SKINS, etc.
Cash Advances on Pastoral Properties and Stock, Wool, Grain and Produce.
Offices: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney. .1 AMES KIDD, General Manager for Australia.
W&W26.
misx&mwU
mm
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAN*
/V-Z) BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
PTY,
LTD.,
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Hitherto the difficulty with frozen beef has
been its unappetising appearance after
thawing and the loss of the vital juices, lhe
first obstacle would appear, from the report,
to have been overcome. An interesting fea-
ture of the new process is the exceedingly
low temperature —14 to 15 degrees- at
which the meat is Carried. This is about
twice as cold as the usual run of shipments
both from here and South America.
It is a common fallacy to confuse chilled
and frozen beef. Chilled beef will thaw out
almost equal to fresh, while frozen never .re-
gains anything like its former palatability.
In its ability to land chilled beef in Britain
lies the secret of Argentina’s supremacy. n c
are precluded by distance, since the chilled
article must enter into consumption within
three weeks of shipment, whereas frozen
meat can be stored almost indefinitely. True,
the Rayson Perfect Pood Process Pty. de-
monstrated in 1927 that it was possible to
ship small parcels of chilled beef from here
by a special process; but the discontinuance
of the Federal subsidy, amongst other things,
before the commercial utility of the process
was clearly proved, resulted in no shipments
being made since September of that year.
THE BUFFALO NUISANCE.
“Wingella”: “W.M.8.” (B. 5/12/’2B)
takes me to task for saying there are thou-
sands of Brahmin cattle in the Far North.
I used the word “Brahmin" as it is used
up here, to distinguish the cattle that have
a mixture of the old zebu blood in them, in
contradistinction to the purely European or
British breeds in other parts of Australia.
The herds of Marraki and Koolpinyah stations
(N.T.) have an admixture of the zebu blood
inihem, as can be seen by the brindle color of
.the hides, etc.; and the owners of Koolpinyah
station are importing new Brahmin bulls
with the intention of improving the herd,
which has been suffering from inbreeding.
We in the North don’t share “W!.M.B.’s”
high opinion of the buffaloes. They do well
in the river districts of Arnhem Land, and
grow into much bigger animals than they do
in the country from whence they came. But
they are regarded more as a nuisance than
an asset by the settler, since a fence that is
an efficient barrier to ordinary cattle is as
a straw to the buffalo, who will walk through
it with ease. Also, the buffalo fouls the
drinking-places of the cattle, and many a
poor beast, has perished in a buffalo-wallow.
The buffalo, too, is blamed for the introduc-
tion of the buffalo-fly, which is proving such
a curse to the northern districts of Australia
to-day.
“W.M.8.” says that Vestey Bros, are ex-
porting young buffaloes to Manila, and raising
buffalo stock on commercial lines. The
facts are that the Northern Agency, as an
experiment, shipped to the Philippines five
buffalo calves, supplied by F. Hardy, of
Rochdale station, to see how the N.T. buf-
faloes would develop in their new home. But
nobody in the Territory, so far as I have
been able to discover, is raising or domesti-
cating buffaloes on commercial lines. The
Northern Agency certainly is not doing so.
The numbers quoted by “W.M.8.” are in-
correct. He states that the buffaloes have
increased from 12 cows and 2 bulls to
over 300,000. Those in a position to speak
with authority give the present-day number
as about 30,000 at the most. If the North
is ever to be fully developed as cattle country
(and enough of the zebu strain still remains
to prove that it is ideally suited for the
coastal districts), something will have to be
done to keep the buffaloes in check, since the
damage they do to cattle country cannot be
offset by the prices of their horns or their
hides.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
I am selling a farm, and am asked for
a statement of profits. I gave my total
income from the farm less my total out-
goings. I am told that I must also deduct
6 p.c. interest on the capital value. (1) Ts
that right? (2) What is the correct pro-
cess? —8362.
(1) No, it is not right. (2) Total income
less payments made or to be made in pro-
ducing that income, including cost of your
own maintenance, less an annual allowance
for replacement of implements and improve-
ments, less rates and taxes. If a sufficient
allowance is made for replacement of imple-
ments and improvements, then ' payments
made for new implements, etc., during the
year will of course not be charged against
income. “Profit” is, however, a very loose
term.
Water in our well is 25 ft. below the sur-
face and 100 yds. away from the tank to be
filled, which is 30 ft. above the surface. Will
a windmill raise the water and force it into
the tank? If so, what sized windmill ,. down-
piping, valving, etc., Would be required ?>—
8320.'
Provided the windmill can be erected over
the well so that the pump can be fixed, say,
half-way down the well, the mill will force
water through 100yds. of pipe, raising 30ft.
quite easily. Size of mill, pump, piping,
valves, etc., entirely depends upon the quan-
tity of water required. A 6ft. mill with
liin. pipe and fittings would deliver about
lOOgals. per working hour; an Bft. mill with
1 |in. pipe, etc., about 150 gals.; a 10ft. mill
with 2in. pipe, etc., about 250 gals.
A recipe for preserving tomatoes whole? —
8447.
Choose sound ripe tomatoes, and wipe
clean with a cloth wrung out of hot water.
Pack into wide glass jars, and fill to the
brim with warm, lightly salted water. Place
new rubbers in position, and set the lids in
place, but do not screw down. Stand jars
in a boiler with straw or paper beneath and
around them, and fill boiler with cold water
up to necks of jars. Bring to the boil, and
let water in jars boil for five minutes. Screw
down lids very tightly, lift out jars and
stand them upside down for a few hours. If
they leak, the process must be repeated, as
sterilisation and sealing must be complete
for keeping.
I wish to put some new blocks under the
foundation of a wooden house. What imple-
ments would I need and how would I go
about the job? —B2B9.
You would need a screw-jack (or bottle-
jack), a post-hole shovel, a spud-bar and a
saw. For the outer walls, first place the
screw-jack to the floor bearer adjacent to
the old block you want to shift and lift
sufficiently to remove that block. Then clean
the hole out, with space enough to slip a
new block, the same length as the old
block, into position; repeat the process until
all the outer-wall blocks are replaced. For
inner blocks, the floor boards would have to
be removed to give working space; the
method for replacing outer-wall blocks
should then be followed. But the job is one
for an expert tradesman, and an amateur
without any building knowledge would pro-
bably make a mess of it.
(1) What might be the average return
in a year from 500 good hens reared on
N.S.W. farm handy to railway, daily .service?
(2) When should birds be bought . and
approximate cost per bird? (3) Approximate
cost per annum of feed per bird? (4)
Most suitable time to commence hatching? —
8245.
(1) It is very hard to say; so much
depends upon knowledge, industry, seasons,
markets and other factors. For instance,
poultry-farmers have suffered serious losses
about Sydney this year owing to the long,
dry season and visitations of severe heat.
With everything right you might clear 10s.
per hen, and again you might not. (2)
Breeding stock should be bought by March ;
the cost varies from 21s. to £3 3s. apiece.
(3) It fluctuates; say 10s. (4) June,
finishing by the end of September; but
breeding stock should be settled down by
May.
(1) Is growing tomatoes under glass
profitable in N.8.W.? (2) Probable cost of
glasshouse 100 ft. by 15 ft. (3) Variety of
tomato suitable, for glasshouses? (4) Where
could / get plans of glasshouses? (5) And
glass? —B3B3.
(1) Growers have found it so; in practi-
cally every case those who tried glasshouses
last year are going in for bigger things the
coming season. (2) Approximately £6O,
if the glass is indented. (3) For low-type
standard houses, a dwarf variety is neces-
sary. Australian Large Red strains are
usually grown; for example, Adelaide
Dwarf Red, Chinese Dwarf Red and Bendigo
Large Red. (4) From the N.S.W. Dept,
of Agriculture. (5) Any glass merchants
will quote indent prices for glass. The grade
is usually thirds, or horticultural glass; the
size, 16in. by Min. and 16oz. or 18oz.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Ledraw”: When a cow has formed the
habit of holding her milk it is hard to break
her of it. Feeding her while she is being
milked will help in some cases.
“Minto”: Soot is a great germicide, and
should be scattered on. to garden plots as
fresh as possible, working it in later. It’s
sure death to slugs, cutworms and all the
other minor pests that play havoc with
flowers and vegetables.
“Uncle Noah”: Cockies desirous of adding
an extra bag to the acre at harvest time
might take a leaf out of the book of a
Numurkah (Vic.) farmer. He uses the
harrows or the spike-roller after seeding. No
hard-and-fast rule can be laid down; the
state of the weather and the condition of
the soil should decide the matter.
“Jacques” : The cure for cuts on the farm-
horse depends entirely on the nature of the
wound. If an incised wound, the oarts
should be drawn together and stitched, allow-
ing jin. on either side of the cut, and tying
each stitch separately. The bottom of the
wound should be left slightly open to allow
any foreign matter to drain out. Do not
attempt to stitch punctured or lacerated
wounds, but use bandages to bring the parts
together. Cleanliness is the main thing, and
the operator’s hands should be thoroughly
scrubbed. A good lotion is made by mixing
one part of carbolic acid or creolin to 40 parts
of rain-water, with which the wound should
be dressed twice a day. As the wound heals
the. lotion should he. gradually made weaker
until twice the original proportion of water
is used.
“Cheon”; In erecting fences liable to get
swept away by floods, put in short uncon-
nected sections. This is done by putting in
two- strainer posts almost touching each
other. ..In crossing a gully or creek the
same method can be used to good advantage.
By this means damage is restricted.
“The’ Invalid”: Many dairy-farmers get
rid of a tough cow without trying to remedy
the trouble. Much time and language will
often be saved if a tough ’un is treated in
the following manner: Draw the milk down
gently into the teat before commencing to
milk, and, taking the teat between the palms
of the hands, roll briskly, maintaining a
firm pressure. Continue for a minute or tw r o
and repeat before each milking. An improve-
ment is usually seen in a few days.
“Nitric”: Pecan nuts have proved a pay-
ing proposition so far, and would be even
more profitable if the importation of walnuts
was controlled. The raising of seedlings is
a simple matter if gone about correctly,
and it is practically the same for all kinds
of nuts. The main thing is to get the seeds
as soon as they are ripe and see that they
are not allowed to dry out and lose their
vitality. Nuts that have been stored for
a long time will not germinate unless they
have been kept in sand. If the satid is kept
moist the nuts wall keep for months and will
start growth in spring.
“Bosso”: Why shouldn’t our cow-cockies
adopt the finger-print system of identification
of criminals to the identification of their
stud Strawberries? A cow’s muzzle carries
a number of ridges similar to those of the
human hand, and from the pattern of these
it is possible to identify any particular
animal. The brand on a stolen cow may be
faked, but her nose-print would confound
the thief—or the exhibitor who tried a ring-
in at a show. A print could also be taken
of growing calves from valuable stud cows,
for, though the muzzle of the calf grows
larger, the design of the ridges on the nose
remains the same.
“Lowan”: J. Breet, of Lancaster (Vic.),
claims to have successfully crossed hard
Federation with Japanese wheat, and from
100 acres sown anticipates a yield of 20 bags
to the acre. The average number of grains
per head in the parent stock is 36 to 40,
whereas in this crossbred it varies between
80 and 100 grains.


.
\
==*- —If
' . &
,
if
lPt/ : p
gSfiftJ
mmM
W
ip wRHn&HMnE:. 1
VSfIKKVv I i •■ «■ .. ’ * ■■i 1 :.,,'... «.W i..9/:#.i'i.i; •.i ', ".i 1 '- jj!
jwntvEJ
, .■ *,«-!
u
Ne^N
SWEEPING into the market only
a few weeks ago, the Silver
Anniversary Buick has already
won countrywide recognition as
the new style—the new mode —in
motor cars!
Motorists have been quick to recog-
nise that this wonderful new Buick
with its magnificent body is not
only a supremely beautiful car but a
thrilling turning - point in body
design. And recognising this fact,
men and women on every street...
in every city and town are
eagerly acclaiming the new mode.
Here are dashing new lines, different
from any heretofore known —longer,
larger,
less in
gorgeo
richest
merits-
viding
passen
and It
equalle
—and, ii
lines-c:
new v
to lend
distinct:
The ne
that ha;
is causir
all prev:
to satisf
V
VA
Prices from &
The Silver Annivel
METROPOLITAN DISTRIBUTORS
MELBOURNE: Lane’s Motors Pty. Ltd., Exhibition Street.
BRISBANE : Metropolitan Motors Ltd., Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY : Boyd fit I
ADELAIDE: ViviaoJ
PERTH: E D. Toe Motors Ltd., Milligan Street.


sdf
sd
fsd
re luxurious body, match-
r grace and symmetry —
ew color harmonies —the
upholsteries and appoint-
1-width rear seats pro-
ty of room for three adult
—an ensemble of beauty
r that has never been
ition, new and deeper radiator
ted head-lamps and cowl-lamps
nd fender design—all combining
Sparable poise, fleetness, and
l lck is the new style—a style
instant popularity—a style that
great Buick factories to break
of production in an effort
•iversal demand.
arv
fillip Street.
Franklin Street.
BUICK
Warranted for One Year
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE SYDNEY BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH
Prove it yourself——?
like this/
Co
me in
arrange to take
the wheel of this
great new car—We
want all prospective
purchasers to make
this test.


i—.'V
rrs
N ™
SF 1
N/
;*£?, w, s « *
\ N —*^-
/a
V-
::;.> h c
* * B *—*--i—••' i —**-■'
“Its Quality Never Changes.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
Hotel International
’Phones;
FWim-S
Most Up-to-date
Seaside Hotel
in New South Wales.
Situated on highest
Point of Beach,
overlooking Pacific.
100 Bedrooms.
BONDI
BEACH
Writ
Telegrams;
Hotel International,
Bondi.
This Palatial Hotel
is now completed
and ready for
reception of guests.
Tariff:
From £4/4/- weekly
Hot Water in •
Rooms.
Spacious Dining-rooms accommodating 250. Lounge-rooms. Palm Court.
Special Suites. Rooms De Luxe. Bathrooms. Writing Bureau. Telephones.
Roof Garden. Cabaret De Luxe. Plunge and Shower Baths.
SMOKE-OH!
Cry at evening:—
Sink your refreshments without ruth,
Nor pause though you should reel and rock.
Grim Time is pressing home the truth
'That it ivill soon be six o’clock.
* *
TESTY TRIFLES.
Larwood continues to bowl with might and
maim.
Australia’s lack of bowlers is due to the
selectors’ reluctance to allow Youth to have
its fling.
Our batsmen are too dash-
ing—they dash-in and dash-
out.
Australia’s fast bowlers
are handicapped by a “wide”
experience.
Furthermore, too few of
them are prepared to go to
the right lengths.
Our chief hope of winning
future matches is by Brad-
management.
« «
New traffic law in Adelaide: “Keep to the
Riot.”
Cabled that a bankrupt English peer owes
£lO,OOO to night clubs. Gambolling debts
presumably.
* *
The trouble on the Adelaide waterfront
is that the unionists have locked themselves
out and lost the quay.
¥ *
COMFORT FOR BANKRUPTS.
There is a knock that opens swift the door
Of gilded care-free rich and burdened poor.
Of homeless tramp and mighty king or
queen —
The Death Collector's rat-tat-tat, 1 mean.
So, all you stiffs, who tearfully refuse
To pay your debts, on this reflection muse.
-However stonebroke you may be to-day
There is one creditor at least you’ll pay!
D. McM.
LIFE IN THE OPEN SPACES.
Dear Cousin, —We ain’t ’ad no rain yet on
ercount ov, the dry weather ther rabbits is
playin’ ’ell an ther shelias is gettin’ up a
darnce fer th’ blokes wot got burnt up on
Anniversary Day an’ Skinny Gilmore’s big
roan bull broke ’is neck an’ ’e ’ad ter shoot
it an’ ole Kennedy’s daughter drownded
’erself ’arvistin’ is goin’ ter be pretty pori‘
one ov them Hindian ’awkers cleared out
with jiin ogan’s wife an th wimmin is torkin
like ell I’m goin’ with the rest of ther mob
ter Sandy McKay’s funeral ter-morrer it
should be good-oh no more news only th’ ole
man dropped stone dead larst week tryin’
ter keep the fire orfer ther wheat patch an'
A TERRIBLE THREAT.
“May I kiss you?”
“If you do I’ll call for help, and, besides, no one's at
home!”
it was dead lucky fer us the wind changed
an’ th’ doctor said it was ’eart failyure.
Well, I must be closing toorooloo, Yours.
D. M.
THE VISION SPLENDID.
Upon a cool, cliff-shaded beach
[ sat. and far and near
Were oysters ( opened ) within reach,
And all the sea was beer.
Because the nectar in the cup
Was warm (as was the day),
A siren sailed an iceberg up
And moored it in the bay.
Thirsts might in other lands abound,
But I was free of fears;
From beer-waves lapping me around
I drank for years and years.
A gracious stupor settled on
My brain, till, with a cry,
1 woke to find the sea had gone —
Pd drunk the ocean dry!
I must 'have swooned, although there rang
A sound like “Noivgentsplease,”
And, noises as of doors that bang.
In my vague memories.
’Turns not till someone shouted “Fare!”
That back to earth I came
And found my gullet parched and bare,
And with hot thirst aflame.
Yet in some future heaven may
That vision reappear! —
An iceberg anchored in a, bay
To cool its waves of beer.
HAMER.
MY POLICIES.
I want a clean and disease-free city, but
don’t believe in being worried by health
inspectors when I leave my garbage-tin
uncovered; and I regard it as an unwar-
rantable interference with the liberty of
the subject that I should be prevented from
dropping rubbish in the street.
I am all for building up Australian indus-
tries, but consider it an infernal outrage
that I should be fiven the option between
paying more for an imported body on my car
and putting up with an Australian body.
I disapprove of the easy-going, rough-and-
ready manners of the local workers. On the
other hand I want them to have plenty of
self-confidence so that when the next war
comes, and my property has to be defended,
they may volunteer freely, and prove them-
selves resolute fighters with plenty of initia-
tive.
I believe in a White Australia, but claim
that the ban should be lifted to permit the
A NATURAL GIFT FOR IT.
HIS HONOR: “You look like a hard drinker to me!”
THE ACCUSED: “Well, I ain’t, your Worship. I’m the
easiest drinker I know.”
arrival of unlimited numbers of colored
domestics, who are well known to be cheaper,
as well as more respectful, than whites.
My wife is in the unfortunate position of not
being able to keep a white domestic, or I
would not want the law altered in this
respect.
I am a temperance enthusiast and approve
of six o’clock closing, except on the occasions
when I want a drink and am unable to. get
one. I then see the law for what it is—
the selfish and. short-sighted despotism of a
lot of miserable teetotal fanatics.
I think that Australian drama and litera-
ture should receive more encouragement than
they do, but have no intention of paying
to see an Australian play or of buying an
Australian book myself. My theory is that
such worthy objects should be encouraged
by others, and I regard any man or woman
as unpatriotic who fails in this respect.
I believe in a strong navy, an efficient
army, high wages and short hours for all
(except the domestics above mentioned),
generous pensions for those who want them,
reduced freights and fares on the State
railways, the immediate institution of penny
postage, and any other measure calculated
to make the lot of the toiling Fathers (aye,
and Mothers, God bless them !) of the race
easier; but I strongly object to increased
taxation, and, in fact, will both vote and
SIMMERED DOWN.
“Cripes, yer wouldn’t think the old bloke at the end wus born
with a silver spoon in ’is mouth, would yer?”
“No. Don’t look’s if he’d stirred hisself much with it.”
work against the Government, Federal or
State, which cannot satisfy me that the
existing burden of taxation will be largely
reduced.
H. SINGEMJOINE.
A LONDONER ON
AUSTRALIA.
Prominent Balham Com-
mercial Traveller says
Capital of Adelaide is but
a “Cr ud e, Rougii-and-
Ready Place.”
(Being a Pen-Picture con-
tributed to the South
Streatiiam Guardian by
Bmy th e Bniythe-Genteel,
Esq., of Balmoral, Tooting-
road, S.E. 21, who saw the
Commonwealth in six days three hours.)
It was the middle of August, and the
heat was too frightful for words on the
morning of my arrival in the capital of
Adelaide. The Walers (Anglice horses)
were dying right and left in the shafts of
the ’buses which tear up and down Collins-
street, and the pond in the front garden of
the Melbourne Club had completely dried
up. (I consented to become a, member of
this little place during my stay, but could
not help comparing it, and the bearded,
red-shirted miners who are its principal mem-
bers, with the bespatted quietude of my club
at Home —the E. Brixton Conservative.)
The editor of the local bi-weekly, the
Argus, was bringing out his little sheet by
himself, as his two compositors had given
him notice on learning of his decision not
to pay them the new printers’ award rate
of £5 per day for a week of eight hours. He
gave this as his reason for not accepting a
stinging article from my pen on the ungentle-
manly manners of his fellow-Australians.
Both the cook and the waiter went on
strike at my pub (hotel or caravanserai)
after breakfast, on the plea that they wanted
to go to the Test match, so I humped bluey
(moved) to the other one, where the cook-
general was providentially English, and con-
sequently opposed to strikes.
And now I proceeded to join the reckless
throng which was galloping across the pad-
docks (meadows) on brumbies (racehorses),
to the so-called Melbourne Cricket Ground.
It is a crude spot compared with our beau-
tiful oval at Balham, and look as I might I
could not see one gent's suit which bore the
hall-mark of the West End. No umbrellas
were carried, and there was not a monocle
or signet-ring m
evidence ! T h e
sliprails (gates)
had been lowered
(opened) at
10.30 a.m., and
an hour later the
rival teams took
the field. A howl
of rage from the
barrackers in the
members’ stand,
and the firing of
revolver shots
and violent crack-
ing of stock-
whips by the law-
less hillites on
the other side of
the ground, re-
vealed that Chap-
eliffe had won the
toss and elected
to bat. Uttering
foul curses the
baffled Aussies
(Australian XI)
disposed th e ni-
sei ves about the
field, and pre-
pared by hook or
by crook to defeat
the hated Eng-
lish. Ilow my
patriotic heart
surged with
pride as Blobbs
and Sutmore
walked fearlessly into the midst of these
savages! It would require the Imperial
touch of a Kipling, if not a Horatio Bottom-
ley, to describe what followed. Despite the
fact that the infamous hillites yelled, cursed,
threw bottles and bricks, waved razors, and
in defiance of every rule of British fair play
tried by other means to put
our gallant lads off, the
latter stuck to their guns.
At 1 p.m. the score stood:
Blobbs 127 n. 0., Sutmore
150 n.o.
Concealing my delight be-
hind a Guardsmanlike calm,
which has many a time
roused the admiration of our
Manchester Department, I
repaired to a rendezvous be-
neath the shade of a spread-
ing gunyah (gum-tree)
where certain members of
the Government House, or
Society, set had invited me
to join in boiling the billy
(having lunch). The meal,
consisting of fried goanna
(a bird corresponding to our
pheasant, but smelling more
like ripe cheese) and washed
down with copious draughts
of raw colonial whisky,
caused me to muse wistfully
on the delicious luncheons of
mutton, two vedges and
'small glass of ale served in
our warehouse restaurant
for a paltry 2s. per head.
But, in any event, my appe-
tite was ruined by the un-
refined accents of the females
—ladies I will not, and can-
not, call them. “Oh!” I
cried inwardly. “Oh! for
the cultured sound of Mrs.
Smythe-Genteel’s voice, or
that of one of her friends
murmuring ‘How naice!
‘Rahly, mai deah!’ and so
on.”
The day’s play ( !) ende'.
in uproar, the committee-
men joining the hillites in
stoning our splendid defend-
ers, who were still, to th j
fury of their enemies, noj
out. Utterly revolted by such un-English
conduct I mounted my brumby and re-
turned to my pub, only to find that
a general strike had been declared;
that the township was under fire from the
machine-guns of Queenscliff; and that the
Bavin Government was preparing to transfer
the -archives to the fortified town of Geelong.
Not wishing to be mixed up further in
their vulgar brawls, I rode on to the adjacent
township of Sydney, of which I hope to give
readers of the S. StkeathAm Guardian my
impressions at a future date.
10-2-4.
LAMENT.
“Ij. and N. Brown Coal, Ltd., is prepared to pav
6d. a gallon for each gallon of oil produced and
the current price of coal for the residual product."
They arc turning our coal
That they get from a hole
To undrinkable products like oil.
They change it to juice.
And what is the use?
It still must be dragged from the soil.
What’s the noon of the change,
I repeat. It seems strange
To an often well-shot individual
That these folks haven’t dared
(As they could if they eared)
To make whisky « product residual.
S.


"Hi
m
%
1111 l
mu
mi
mu
mi
mi
III!
1111
• •••
• •••
HU
HU
••••
IUI
mi
ml*
ittif^
m
>•1111
fffi
"in
I
♦
as
1
s
¥A
I
8
HU
5\
•••»
a
£
if
HU
g
&
m
THE
OLDEST HORSE
IN THE WORLD!
ESTABLISHED 1742
Matured from early days in wood
and blended with subtlety and
genius*
Real Old Scotch whisky with a rare
distinctive flavour* In growing
demand throughout the world*
A man’s drink—anytime, anywhere*
screw-cap bottles
NO CORKSCREW REQUIRED


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
uMiil
Address Manager-
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
20
INTEREST-BEARING FAITH
The person who is faithful to his Savings Acount, year after year,
permitting compound interest to add its cumulative power, has a
far better chance of acquiring something substantial than the
person who habitually speculates on “Sure Things.”
The race is rarely to the swift.
One thing is certain—there is no magic about accumulation, there
are few short cuts, and most of those are dangerous.
It is best after all to find out the surest way, the cumulative way,
and then stick doggedly to it—with interest added at 4% p.a.
Every Post Office is a Savings Bank Agency.
(famonwealti) Savings JBanfc of Australia
( Guaranteed, bv the Commonwealth Government).
Unexcelled for
Convenience
Main
Theatres
situated
nearby.
Right
opposite
Railway
Station.
r^\
'iX
' ll
Handy to
main
public
buildings.
Conveni-
ently near
Shopping
Centres.
No hotel in Adelaide is so conveniently
as The Grosvenor, and none
offers better service or greater comfort.
Tariff from £3 10/-.
Write for information booklet.
GROSVENOR
f' cJldekudes Finest Unlicensed Field
Opp. Railway Stn. North Terrace.
BRACKEN
By BERNARD CRONIN
Illustrations J>y Reason
Synopsis : Brought up l>y his aunt,
Ann Martin, at Musk Ridge, a Gipps-
land selection, where, while his uncle
lived, he drugged out a slaving exist-
ence, Jasper Leith has his eyes turned
citywards through a friendship with
Ronald Braid, a young artist. Lois
Beaument, the girl with whom he
shares a mutual, fondness, goes to Mel-
bourne, and Jasper, taking a little
too much drink at the Harrises, gets
into a compromising situation, and
tells Tod Harris that he is going to
marry his sister Cora, whom he had
previously disliked. They marry and
go to Melbourne, tellere Jasper's early
business and 'matrimonial life arc
failures. A child is born and dies;
Cora nags; and Tod, who has become
a racecourse hanger-on, hints that a
commercial traveller named Roughton,
with wliom Cora had been very inti-
mate just before marriage, is again
carrying-on until her. Meanwhile
Braid has proposed to Lois and been
lightly rejected. Speculation brings
Jasper a large sum of money, but
he is becoming very worried, about
Cora, and this reaches a climax when
one night she returns after midnight
smelling of drink. She had been out
u-ith Roughton, whose car had been
smashed and himself killed. Jasper
seeks comfort in Lois’s company.
CHAPTER XXIII.
Big Money.
THEY watched the swans a while; then
Lois turned to Jasper T “Tell me what
you’re doing,” she said. “Do you know
that your fame has even come to the ears
of Mrs. Pole-Bugle? She was talking about
you at lunch. She thinks you’re making
quite a hit in the city already.”
Jasper looked pleased. “I’ve had a lot
of luck. Real estate—that’s the thing. You
buy and sell. And that reminds me. I can
let Ronald and Allenby North and the rest
of them into a good thing, if they want it.
I must get around and see them. It’s too
big for me to handle by myself, and I’d
sooner share with friends than strangers.
I want to get a syndicate going to handle
a city deal. I’ve thought it all out. We’ll
convert into an arcade with shops, and
make a quick killing.”
“Won’t that take a dreadful lot of
money?”
“A few thousands or so,” Jasper said
carelessly. “We’ll put up so much each,
don’t you see, and pay a preliminary
deposit. It ought to return twenty per cent,
on capital expended. It’s the surest thing
I know.”
“How different from the old Guruwa
days!” Lois said dreamily. She sighed, then
smiled. “Now you talk in thousands of
pounds. Jasper, aren’t you frightened some-
times that you might reach too far one
day? So much money!”
“Well, I need quite a lot. I should say,
Cora does. She pesters from morning to
night. She’s found out, you see, just how
I’ve gone ahead. At least, she thinks she
has.”
Lois wondered at his suddenly secretive
eyes. The boyishness had gone from his
face. He plucked at the grass, frowning.
“I’ve made a sort of provision against
—well, against accident, you see.”
Lois did not inquire his meaning, although
the phrase recurred to her many times later
on. She said gently: “Cora can’t be very
happy, Jasper.”
“There you go again!” But he was more
amused than irritated. “If it comes to
that, I’m sorry for her myself.
She’s well provided for. Too
well.” He added ' curtly, as
though reading her thought: “You
knew she was drinking pretty hard
and regularly, didn’t you? Well, it’s
true.
“It’s dreadful to think of. Jasper, can’t
you—can’t we do anything to help her?”
“You don’t understand. She’d probably
curse you to your face, if you went near
her. I’ve had my share of that, I can tell
you. She used to come to my office when
she’d been drinking, and make no end of a
scene. I did my best with her, but it was
no gdod. I had to get my lawyers to
scare her, in the end. We won’t talk about
it any more.”
Lois roused from her growing depression
to look at her watch. “I think I must be
getting back to town,” she said. “I hardly
realised that it was so late.”
As they climbed the rise from the lake
she thought how constrained this must have
sounded. Suddenly she wanted to cry. She
had to bite her lips hard to conquer the
impulse. In desperation she began talking
at random, affecting a lightness that she was
far from feeling. Somehow the day which
had begun so well had lost all its promise.
Everything had become stilted and unreal.
She longed intensely for the comforting
solitude of her rooms, where her emotions
could relax freely and unashamed.
She stole a timid glance at Jasper, who
strode moodily at her side. She saw that he
was staring a little queerly at a man seated
at the side of the gravel walk. The man
rose unsteadily as they came near. He was
about middle age, shabbily clothed, rather
dishevelled, with thin, unshaven cheeks, and
a fair, straggling moustache. He was look-
ing at Jasper with a kind of ugly recog-
nition in his large, pale eyes. Lois was
unpleasantly impressed by his obvious
symptoms of unsoberness and she moved
closer to Jasper. She had the average
woman’s dislike and fear of drunken
company.
It came to her, with something of a
shock, that Jasper was also uneasy. His
mouth twitched slightly, and his breathing
was hurried. Lois was pondering this nerv-
ously when the man spoke. His voice
was keyed to a bitter malice.
“Well, Leith, been stealing anything
lately?”
Jasper’s face was rigid. Ho walked on
without replying. At their backs came a
raucous laughter, which turned to a volley
°f shouted insult and maudlin reviling.
Lois’s ears burned.
“Leith, you’re nothing but a dirty crook.
Does your lady friend know' that? If she
doesn’t, she can take Joe Harbord’s word
for it.”
She w'as suddenly terrified at Jasper’s
expression. He had halted, with an oath,
and was swinging on his heel, when she
caught at him appealingly.
“Jasper, you’re not to. ' He’s not himself.
Jasper, you mustn’t!”
She had almost to struggle with him.
“Jasper, it can do no good. And what
does it matter? You know it isn’t true.
How could it possibly be true?”
“True! That’s the way they all squeal
when you beat them at their own game. No
man can talk like that in front of you.”
“As if I believed it!” she cried. But her
heart seemed somehow to bleed. “Jasper,
let s go. As if I could believe anything
like that of you!”
. J&sper, staring down into her drowned,
imploring eyes, said hoarsely: “All right.
Im sorry, Lois. We’ll go on, of course.
Hes only a drunken hummer.”
“Yes, of course. Poor fellow!”
'You can’t mix business and sentiment.
Besides, I hardly know the man. Met him
only two or three times.”
“I know, I know. Let’s drive back the
other way, shall we?”
“But, look here, Lois, I want you to
understand about Harbord. Women get
queer notions about business. You see”——
“Is there anything to understand?” She
interrupted quietly. “Don’t let’s talk about
it any more. One can’t help these unfor-
tunate happenings.”
Jasper muttered: “Of course, I don’t care
a rap what anyone else chooses to think. So
long as you understand. Where shall I
let you down?”
“Could you run me home?”
“I’ll see Ronald and some of the others
right away, I think, about that arcade
scheme,” he said, as they parted. He
appeared to have forgotten all about Har-
bord. His eyes plotted. “By George, Lois;
this is going to be a big thing, if I can
pull it off. What about some of your own
savings? You couldn’t do better?”
“I’m afraid I haven’t any,” she disclaimed,
with a faint smile. “Yes, come on Friday,
as usual. I shall expect you.”
A letter waited her on the floor, under
her door. She opened it without interest.
It was from her old music professor; it
acquainted her, with grave eagerness, with
an offer made by a number of admirers of
her playing to send her abroad for three
years’ study.
At any other time Lois would have been
immensely thrilled by this unxpected kind-
ness, but now she was blankly unresponsive.
As she put the letter on one side, however,
the thought came to her: “Is this the way
out?” But she chided herself instantly. She
was too tired, she felt, to attempt a
decision. She thought: “If I could be sure
I -wasn't needed!”
But she was not left free to consider
even this phase of her weariness. She had
barely finished bathing her eyes and tidying
herself when her door-bell rang. She opened
it to be welcomed by Ivy Marsh and her
sister, Carlotta. Carlotta was now Mrs.
Robert Brandish, her husband being, Lois
understood, a manager of one or other of
the suburban banks.
She made them stay to tea; resting her
mind gladly on their chatter. Pa Marsh,
Lois learned, had retired from the grocery
business and now lived at Cheltenham,
with Ivy to keep house for him. Notwith-
standing this severance of active interests
he was still, she gathered, devoted to the
market performances of the foodstuffs
among which it had pleased Providence
to place him for the term of his business
life. Apparently he now occupied his time
in a close study of the commercial columns
of the daily press, in the consuming of vast
quantities of tea and dry toast, and in bed.
He was also declared by Ivy to be more
than a little trying at times, and to have
exhibited lately a passion for taking long
walks and losing himself.
Inquiry as to Clarrie—whom Lois remem-
bered chiefly on account of thS extreme
incipience of his incipient moustache—drew
sniffs from Carlotta and a frown from Ivy.
Clarrie, she was told, had quarrelled with
the grocery business and consequently with
his father, and was rather beyond the pale.
His means of livelihood, whilst apparently
sufficient, were utterly mysterious. Also he
had without warning married a widow with
two children and no money at all. All of
which—as Carlotta said, dabbing at her
eyes—undoubtedly proved that Clarrie was
not so considerate of the feelings of his
family as he ought to be.
Lois smoothed the suburban mind with
a pious hope for the future, and a promise
to call and make the acquaintance of Mr.
Robert Brandish, who turned out to be not
a bank manager but the proprietor of a
thriving ham and beef shop. She sent her
love to Pa Marsh, closed the door not un-
sympathetically upon her visitors, and went
straight to bed. She had not known until
that moment how wretchedly tired and ill
she felt. She fell asleep with her thought
resolutely turned from the events of the
day. But her dreaming could not deny
Jasper, even although it was only the sound
of his calling to her from the nightmare
depths of a jungle of twining, evil-smelling
bracken.
Jasper’s own thought was flowing like a
tide when he left Lois to seek Ronald
Braid at his studio. He explained his new
scheme briefly.
“There’s big money in this, if it’s handled
right.”
“Well, aren’t you the man to handle it?”
Ronald said admiringly. “You seem to have
a genius for that kind of thing. I say,
Jasper, I’m most awfully grateful to you
for letting me in on it with you. The
others will be, too. You know, they think
no end of your flair for business.”
“Pooh!” Jasper disclaimed carelessly.
“It’s nothing. I need more money than
I’ve got myself, that’s all. If you people
like to put up the balance, I’ll be only too
glad. You understand I’m not persuading
you?”
“A chap don’t need persuasion on a thing
like this,” Ronald said. He was a good
deal elated, and his eyes shone. “How much
do we have to put up? And when?”
Jasper wondered a little at his own calm-
ness as he said: “Call it £15,000 for the
preliminary deposit. I’ll want £SOOO from
the rest of you. Say £IOOO apiece from
North, Enderby, Jim Thor—if I can get
in touch with him; he’s out of town just
now—Ardrossan and yourself If you
haven’t got it, I daresay your bank will
meet you a little. I don’t want to run
you too short, although, as I see it, even
a temporary sacrifice is justified. And
there ought to be a fairly quick turnover.”
“A thousand pounds!” But Ronald cut
his caution short at sight of Jasper’s in-
different smile. “Well, I daresay I can
manage it. I’ll have to. How long can
you give us?”
“No longer than it takes you to get to-
gether and pool your money, the five of
you. You’ll handle that part and draw
cheques payable to me. I’ll give you an
acknowledgment.”
“It’s damned good of you,” Ronald re-
peated as Jasper took his leave.
“Rot! If I could have done without you
I would have. And, besides, I suppose
there’s a suspicion of risk, after all. You
have to stand for that.”
But Ronald would have none of it. He
wrung Jasper’s hand repeatedly.
“I don’t know any man besides yourself
that would do it. You haven’t any obli-
gation to make the rest of us rich, you
know. I don’t know how you think of these
schemes. I’m hanged if I ever could. I
suppose it’s because art and commerce so
rarely mix. If they were more generally
acquainted you business fellows would have
to sit up and take more notice of us.”
Jasper found Ronald’s effusiveness irk-
some. He was glad to get away into more
practical realms. But the suggestion as to
his own philanthropy stuck queerly in his
mind. It was a point of view which had
not occurred to him, and he viewed it with
a certain distrust. In the next few days
he was conscious of a growing reluctance
to share his brains gratuitously. But it was
not until the £SOOO was actualiy in his hands
that the cunning hidden in the thought
fully revealed itself. He sat then a long
moment, smiling grimly. After all, he told
himself plausibly, the incentive was
Ronald’s. Ronald had unwittingly empha-
sised a truth which was now plain to Jas-
per’s purpose. Undoubtedly it would be
ridiculous to expend himself needlessly to
enrich others, when by a simple and
unsuspected strategem he could turn the
entire reward into the channel of his own
advantage. He decided that the expedient
was worth attempting. There was nothing
actively dishonest about it: he was very
positive on this point. , Sharp, perhaps, if
one took an extreme view; but dishonest,
no. In fact, quite legitimate business en-
terprise of the kind transacted everywhere.
Only the weak were over-scrupulous.
To his annoyance, however, his succeed-
ing transactions introduced an unpleasant
sense of meanness. He did his best to dis-
pel this, but without much success. He
(Continued on page 58.)


!DdciousRBtlW
JL
/ V
JELLV
V,
\
H'
w&
ibs
V!//
?/,
Put quality before cheapness
Always say REX-PYE
A cool, tasty lunch
On hot days, when hot food repels, you will
thoroughly enjoy dainty slices of cool REX-
PYE with its firm, cold jelly.
Place a can of REX-PYE on the ice half-an-
hour before lunch —no cooking and swelter-
ing in the kitchen! Serve it with fresh, cool
salad or mint sauce.
REX-PYE is all choice meat of unquestion-
ably first-class quality. Note its delicate
aroma. Enjoy its delicious flavour.
Other REX Pure Foods
lib and %lb CANS
Baked Beans in Tomato Sauce
Lorraine Smoked Sausages
Pork Sausage
Pork and Beans in Tomato
Sauce
K-be-B (Kidneys, Beans and
Bacon)
Devilled Kidneys
Ox Tongue
Choice Soups (five kinds)
lib CANS ONLY
! Pork Brawn
Pig Feet
Fry and Bacon
Beef Sausages
Red-y-mele, choice
beef and vegetables
—a ready meal
REX-PYE
In I lb. and }2 lb. hygienic cans
FOGG ITT JONES PTV. LTD.
(Division of Unihed Provisions Ltd.)
CurerB of the Choice REX Hams anc 4 Bacon


&
;-V
illo
w
M
n
fe
I
lI'.'.ITC!
v >t~\* .X 5
v--
,-vF^Nl'
L—J '
* .• '
x s 3
AYREFIELD embodies all
the qualities a good hat
should. Easy fitting —
superb finish —incompar-
able style. The colours
remain fast even after long wear.
Your mercer has a wide range of
shapes and sizes.
t eae let
Share th eir lAeriis with Ac
one.
Obtainable at all the
leading Men’s Stores
A PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT HATS PTY.
LTD -
F10


The Finest Razor
that money can buy
A genuine KROPP Razor will give you quick, clean,
comfortable shaves for a life time. It is an all-British
Razor, hand-forged in Sheffield, England, by the World’s
most expert craftsmen.
KROPP
never
requires
grinding
ALL-BRITISH
fei--'.---
From the usual Dealers. Black Ivory or Xylonite Handles.
Wholesale onIy:—OSBORNE, GARRETT & CO., LTD., London, England.
Is baby thriving 1
1
Food
LJtn
Reg. Trade Mark.
In cases of difficult feed-
ing Benger’s gives valuable
help. A change to Benger’s
Food at three months has
proved the turning point to
many weakly infants.
Benger s Food always is prepared
for use with fresh cowsVmilk.
Send fot Benger’s Booklet, post free.
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.,
350, George Street, SYDNEY.
FOR ALL SPORT
BUY
THE SPORTING GLOBE
The Leading Australian Authority with -the largest
staff of Sporting Experts and Special Representatives
in all States. The staff includes: —
“MUSKET” The Turf
“BAIL” Cricket
W. S. SHARLAND Football
PAT O’HARA WOOD ... Tennis
J. ,T. MAHER Cycling
J. M. DILLON Golf
A.' L. DOBBIE Rowing
TOM MORLEY Coursing
MAURIE COLLTNS Bowls
H. C. BROOKE Yachting
New South Wales edition available
every Thursday, price 3d.
X
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CQNNfeLL STREET, SYDNEY;
Old Age Starts
with Backache
Backache is a sure sign that something
wrong has started. Often troubles like pain-
ful urination, dizziness, swollen joints, tired
limbs, lack of vital force soon follow.
Then you are old —before you need be! Nine
times out of ten the cause is simply uric
acid. This is easily got rid of at the start,
but with neglect it gets obstinate. The
quickest, surest remedy is Dr. Harrison’s
Pills, which get rid of uric acid as effectively
as hot water dissolves sugar. With the uric
acid thus banished, new vigor comes; you
feel brighter, younger, more alert. All sorts
of worrying symptoms disappear, and you
feel a new being. Every good chemist and
store carries Harrison’s Pills—a well-known,
established remedy, in which the sufferer
from aches, pains and genito-urinary weak-
nesses can place every reliance. Unlike
“patent” medicines, these pills cost very
little though “worth their weight in gold.”
df
Britain’s
Motor
Masterpiece
In Mayfair and the Shires, across the plains of
India and the desert tracks of Iraq, in the sun-
shine of Australia, or on the African veldt—
everywhere where cars are used you will find
the Sunbeam.
Not only in mechanical efficiency but also in
coachwork of fine appearance and luxurious
comfort, Sunbeam leads the way.
Its high road speed, ease of control, security
of braking and stability under all conditions
ensure a performance of exceptionally high
standard.
The coachwork combines unusual beauty of line
with roomy accommodation.
Sunbeam cars for the Australian market are
specially built with the necessary ground clear-
ance, springing and cooling to ensure perfect
performance on the roughest roads and tracks
and in the most tropical heat.
Complete catalogue will be sent on application
to our Australian agents, or direct to our Export
Department.
AUTHORISED DISTRIBUTORS.
THE ALL BRITISH MOTOR CO. PTY., LTD., 111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
MESSRS. WILLIAMS, HILL & CAMERON, LTD., 91-97 Flinders Street, Sydney.
MESSRS. ARTHUR BALES, LTD., 367-371 Murray Street, Perth.
RASCH MOTORS, LTD., 69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT:
12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, W.l, England.
Cables;
“Subeamoco,” London.
Agents for Egypt: MIDDLE EAST MOTOR AGENCY, 3 Kon-Elo Dick, Alexandria.
Head Office and Works:
Wolverhampton, England.
0.T.P.55
Pen and Picture
Shadow Shows
A news reel
over which the
Cockney - voiced
yellers of the
streets could
legit i m a t e 1 y
scream the head
off a city is the
Movietone offer-
ing fatuously called “The King’s Talkie.”
Recording the speech the King made at the
opening of the Tyne bridge at Newcastle
just before he became ill, the only speech of
his ever recorded for the benefit of movie-
house patrons, the film has exceptional news
value. The King and Queen are pictured
arriving at the bridge site in a carriage,
there is a blare of trumpets, some cheering,
and a cut-off. Then the King appears on. the
official platform and at. once begins his
speech. He reads it, with that deep, even-
flowing voice commonly associated with the
delivery of sermons. It is a smoothly poli-
tic speech, praising the people of Tyneside,
the builders, the workers. The film, despite
its news value, is defective in the
abruptness of its end ; it breaks off immedi-
ately after the King’s task is over, as if
something had happened to the camera.
Mill, it is an uncommonly interesting frag-
ment, leading to a speculative comparison
of itself and the pallid entertainment it
would be without the voice. The talkie
news-reel is already an established success.
His Private Life” (Paramount) is
mostly froth and bubble, and no things stand
alone. Its flavor is pseudo-Parisian, and to
anyone sufficiently pseudo-French it might
possibly be diverting; but, having cut his
teeth on the ancient tale about the hood-
winking of a violently-jealous husband, this
Showman
found it
rather boring.
The husband,
a pork-butclier
by the cut of
him, has
thrown under
his eyes a
score of proofs
that his wife
is enjoying a
flirtation, and,
though he is
looking
savagely for
just those
proofs, he
swallows ex-
phi nations
that wouldn’t
con vince a
jury of half-
wits. The
chap with
whom the lady
flirts transfers
his affections
KATHRYN CARVER, of
“His Private Life."
to another, who spurns him, leaves the
hotel where he is pressing his suit, and, in
ordering dinner at the next hotel, asks the
head waiter to serve what is usually served
to those suffering from broken hearts. Be-
fore one has time to suggest plaster of
Paris, the band is playing soft music, and
the man she ran away from is discovered at
the table where she is going to dine. So. it
runs on. It suggests a picture from which
the Censor has cut so much that what’s
left is pointless. If it is really complete
as produced it is not much of a testimonial
for its makers. Adolphe Menjou wastes some
good acting as the lieartbrcaker, and Kath-
ryn Carver moves about conventionally as
the much-wronged girl.
In spite of the over-acting of its most
outstanding character, “The Red Mark”
(I’.D.C.) is a tip-top picture. For basis it
has a strong story picturesquely set on a
French convict-settlement island, where the
ruling Governor, not content with seeing a
head drop into the guillotine’s basket at a
wave of his hand, takes to himself the job
of executioner. The island is ket)t going bv
paroled convicts, who, though given the free-
dom to work and build up little businesses
and otherwise make money, have to wear their
prison numerals on their backs. The Gover-
nor-executioner is a widower, whose baby son
disappeared at the time of the mother’s
death. He suspects that Mother Carron, a
blousy woman who has a lovely niece, Zelie,
knows what happened to the hoy. A love
affair is moving happily forward between
Zelie and Bibi-Ri, a young convict who has
been freed and is about to leave the island,
when the Governor declares Zelie his fiancee.
He sends a henchman to the Carron house
with a pre-wedding gift, and himself arrives
in time to see the henchman killed by Bibi-
Ri in an all-in fight. Meanwhile Mother
Carron has accidentally discovered a birth-
mark on the young lover’s neck. Bibi-Ri is
thrown into prison, and Zelie, assured by him
that he will follow her soon, leaves the island
under the protection of the Church. The
execution bell rings, Bibi-Ri marches up to
the guillotine and has the clothes stripped
from about his neck. The Governor sees the
birthmark and claims the boy as his son.
The boy refuses the compliment, the father
dies of the shock, and the end is as happy
as it is obvious. There are good dramatic
points in the picture and just enough humor
to balance. Gustav Von Seyffertitz severely
overdoes the part of the Governor. Gaston
Glass is excellently cast as Bibi-Ri and so
is Rose Dione as Mother Carron. Nena
Quartaro, who plajas Zelie, is a charming
addition to the screen —very nice to look
at and a fetching actress.
“Husbands for Rent” is a typical Warner
comedy, bright, smooth-running and as full
of modern gadgets as the new Ford. It is
a trite tale of a matrimonial mix-up, every-
thing coming right when the wife (Helene
Costello) and the husband (Owen Moore)
arrange to compromise themselves in order
to obtain grounds for a divorce and find that
the parties selected in each case are them-
selves. The film is full of lashings of cham-
pagne, and teems with smart women and
gay men. Unfortunately this column in-
spected it just after seeing a picture by a
joint British and Continental concern. The
contrast was startling. The Americans by
comparison were dummies. They lived, more
or less, and had their being, such as it was,
in a world of convention almost as rigid
and hidebound, if not of as great antiquity,
as that which reigns on the Chinese stage.
It was impossible for a sophisticated on-
looker to regard them as anything but pup
pets dangling from the end of a producer’s
megaphone.
The Inky Way
“Ilerodot”: A N.S.W. country paper
published the brightest version of the Sydney
City Council graft case. It announced tliai
Silas Maling had gone to gaol for six months
for “accepting a bride.”
“Berra”: Melbourne Herat.d’s complaint
is catching. Sydney Evening News lias
swallowed up the Vic. Provincial Press Ser-
vice,. and will now flimsy the Commonwealth
Parliament for metropolitan and country
papers in every State. Charlie Burr, until
he arrived at Canberra a year ago N.S.W.
roundsman for the News, is managing the
show; in the session lie will have live or
six men with him.
“Copabella”: Add to the young men on
the Melbourne Argus staff (B. 23/l/’29)
the deputy-chief, Keith G. Attiwell. A boy
when the war broke out, Keith enlisted as
soon as they would take him, but arrived in
Europe only in time for the Armistice. Not
to be done out of his war in that way, he
volunteered for the Archangel expedition, and
was one of the very few Aussies who saw that
show. He moved to the Argus as a junior
from the now-dead Geelong Times.
“Bouragi”: H. B. Lewin, who was forced
off the Inky Way by failing eyesight, and
has since walked from one end of Australia
to the other and back again, picking up odd
jobs as occasion offered, has settled down
at Toowoomba. On his way from Melbourne 1
to Cairns he looked upon the Darling Downs
capital and found it good. With the old-age
pension to sustain him, he will wait there
for the inevitable hour.
“La.o-dah”: If Melbourne gossip goes for
anything, a Tas. newspaper and one in
Brisbane will be added to the chain in
which the Adelaide Advertiser and Regis-
ter are the latest links. After that there
will be only Sydney and Darwin left to
conquer.
“P. Pi” (Darwin) : North Australia has
two newspapers, both published at Darwin:
the Times, which has been in existence for
over 50 years, and the Standard, a mere
infant, of eight or nine years. The editors
are mild and inoffensive, and the new ordin-
ance against unauthorised printing has driven
both nearly to distraction. The ordinance
is so far-reaching in its tomfoolery that a
boy 'with a shilling box of type may find
himself under the ban if he prints “Tom
Jones is a skite.” without adding his name
and address. Even visiting-cards must bear
such legends as “Authorised by Mrs.
Grubbe, of Ruo Emoh, Caterpillar-avenue,
and printed by the N. T. Times Proprietary,
Ltd., J. A. Porter, Printer and Publisher.”
“John B.” : Dick Northy retired the other
day after 35 years’ service with Lithgow's
sole newspaper, the Mercury. He started as
“devil” on the sister paper, the Bathurst
Times, nearly 50 years ago; his first boss
at Lithgow was Jimmy Ryan, M.L.C., since
retired from the paper and now an Honorary
Minister. Though latterly on the literary
side, Northey always remained in the ranks
of the Typo. Union. For 25 years he was
secretary of the Lithgow Eight-hour Day
celebration—it is a six-hour affair now—
and he recently laid the foundation-stone of
the building which will house the offices of
all the unions in the Lithgow valley.
“M.J.T.C.”: A. C. C. Holtz (B. 23/l/’29)
and I were boys together at Brighton (Vic.).
Together we produced a small magazine for a
church literary society ; we were joint editors,
principal contributors and comps. He was then
a shorthand clerk in the P. and O. Co. He
applied for a position on the Argus as
junior shorthand-writer for editor Howard
Willoughby, and got it. “There were about
200 applications,” Willoughby said to him;
“yours was the first I opened, and you seem
suitable, so you are engaged.” The for-
tunate youth rose to be secretary to the
Edward Wilson Trust, then secretary to the
Argus, and then g.-m.
“0.T.”: The passing of Woolcock, J. (Q.),
recalls an incident of 23 years ago that
nearly wrecked his career. As Parliamentary
draftsman he prepared the famous Land
Monopoly Tax Rill for the Morgan-Ividston
Government. Three copies only had been
printed, and the provisions were regarded as
a close official secret, when, to the consterna-
tion of Ministers, they appeared in full in
one of the Brisbane dailies. With blood in his
eye Kidston called for the three printed copies
■ —and Woolcock was unable to produce his.
Moreover, a relation was on the staff of
the offending paper. But before Kidston’s
thunderbolt fell Honest John Cameron, Oppo-
sition M.L.A. for Brisbane, gravely told the
Hrm.se that lie had picked up a copy of the
bill in the Under-Secretary’s room, and given
it to the newspaper on the advice of a
trusted friend. So Woolcock was absolved,
but his brows always beetled forbiddingly
at any attempt to recall the affair, even when
the allusion was jocular and entirely friendly.
“Gregor”: A queer custom of the ’eighties
which some newspaper proprietaries would
like to see revived was the expression by
citizens of their opinions on current topics in
the advertising .columns, generally under
the heading of ‘Public Announcements.”
The Echo, now extinct, was conspicuous for
these notices, the subject matter ranging
from the expected Russian invasion to the
blessings of Freetrade. One “Biarmoni”
was the A. G. Hui e of the period. He dis-
coursed on all manner of subjects besides
the abominations of a tariff, and his effu-
sions were never cut down or basketed
They cost him four bob an inch.


m
m
w
-<s)^
&
Yi
m
n
•>
c
\
mm
mm
■a
v
-
My
per large tube.
Managing Agents for Australia —*
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
"New Zealand Agents:—Van Staveren Bros., Ltd., Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch.
new
Shaving "
Cream
*
§1
Made by the Valet
rcQor people
m
With this new cream even the best
blade will shave still better. It is
copious in lather, pure in colour (as all
good creams should be) and leaves
the skin invigorated and refreshed.
Buy a tube now and learn the “clean
feeling of a perfect shave.”
Au^cySt^op
Shaving Cream
British made.
Of all dealers.
FOR CYCLISTS
The
(every roller revolves)
fitted in conjunction with
the® Hubs
makes cycling more and more
delightful.
B. W. Chains and Hubs are supported
by many years manufacturing experi-
ence. They are essentially the pro-
ducts of a specialised organisation,
and their perfect accuracy in design
and wonderful wearing qualities
insure a service without compare,and
a smooth and silky running which
no other combination can excel.
You should specify them on your
new mount and if any difficulty in
supply write our
factory Representative,
JOHN ARNOLD,
Degraves Street, Melbourne, Vic.
G.P.O. Box 71.
DISTRIBUTORS:
Melbourne: Acme Cycle Co.
Sydney: Williams, Dredge & Haydon, Ltd,
Brisbane: J. H. Cowley & Co., Ltd.
Perth: Atkins (W.A.), Ltd.
New Zealand: Adams, Ltd.
Hope Gibbons, Ltd.
E. Reynolds & Co., Ltd.
Bayliss Wiley & Co., Ltd., Birmingham, Eng.
WEED Tyre Chains
f \
V UuC.
f
Sr
£V
v r
h fr,
d
¥
h
rj
■
, i
i'
HVi
m
t
s*
,v
>S
\
9
&
4039
Will see you through as they
have millions of other motorists
during the past quarter of a
century.
They represent the greatest
value in Tyre Chains your money
can buy. They are built to give
you the best service possible.
When ordering look for the
name “WEED” stamped plainly
on every cross chain hook, as well
as side chain connecting hook.
Order from your dealer
AMERICAN CHAIN CO.
New York, N. Y., U.S. A.


ACCURATE SHOOTING AT 500 YARDS.
guss^
NEW IMPROVED CADET RIFLE.
Hundreds of satisfied Shooters have used
297/230 CALIBRE CADET RIFLES.
This is an ideal sporting rifle. Fires a central fire cartridge larger than a .22
calibre, and is accurate up to 500 yards. 24m barrel. Lnder-lever Martini
action, quick and certain in extraction of empty shells. Detachable lock. Flevatin
ladder rear sight and protected bead front sight. Fitted complete with cleanm
rod and brush 75/"
CARTRIDGES.—Long (actual size illustrated) 7/6 per 100
Short 5 / 6 » "
cr; a?
Va
PTY. LTU
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Don't wish for the Best get it.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTOi .
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
AN OLD “SPOT” MELLOWED BY AGE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney. U-
SPORTING
NOTIONS
For Canterbury Park on Saturday: —
Flying Handicap: Anambah; next, Bun-
kum,
Canterbury Handicap: Resource; next,
Ilinchinbrook.
High weight Handicap: Resorby; next,
Leisure Hour.
Campsie Handicap: Speechmaker; next,
The Grindstone.
* * * *
Realising that the public was tired of see-
ing a lot of moderates in six-furlong flutters,
the Epsom (Vic.) club put on a mile and
a half race for third-raters on Saturday,
and it proved the star attraction of the after-
noon. Twenty-four horses faced the barrier,
old Answer, who won an Australian Cup, but
has done nothing since, being topweight. The
public made Spearligkt a 7-to-2 favorite, and
its judgment was sound, for he won very
easily from Mahogany (25 to 1) and Mann-
lewa (33 to 1). He is a six-year-old bay
gelding by Spearhead—Fleet Maid, and may
go on to better things. Long-distance races
for third-raters, real or supposed, are a
feature in Westralia, and several good stayers
—notably Jemidar, winner of the Perth Cup
—have graduated from them.
H. Foster, by no means a fashionable
jockey, rode Spearlight an excellent race. He
was also successful on Jack Brewer’s chest-
nut Fairy House, an Elfacre gelding, in the
Epsom Plate, jumping his mount out smartly
and letting nothing get near him. Day
Dreamer (12 to 1) was second, and the
heavily-backed Myarin (3 to 1), who loitered
at the barrier, next. Fairy House was backed
from twenties down to tens by Brewer, Cecil
Godby and their friends. .
Though Adjong has been in line form this
season, the mile handicap, a £4OO affair,
Under the Whip
Borrowing a wrinkle from Williamstown
and Moonee Valley, the Rosehill (N.S.W.)
club put on a w.f.a. race at its February
meeting on Saturday, and the experiment
was abundantly justified. Though Winalot
and Amtounis were absentees, the. seven
starters were all good horses and betting was
so spirited that McShortodds offered 7 to
2 the field, Aorangi having a slight pre-
ference. Trautwein’s horse came late, accord-
ing to his habit, and though he finished
almost level with the second horse, Lady
Constance (4 to 1), he never looked like
catching Reonui (9 to 2), who won comfort-
ably, running the mile in lmin. 39sec. Be-
cause he had been left at the post at Moore-
field and had run last in the A.J.C. Anniver-
sary Handicap many backers would not have
Reonui, but the Villiers Stakes winner was
on his best behaviour for Munro and gave a
brilliant exhibition of galloping.
The bookmakers must have thought some-
thing was wrong with Boston, or they
wouldn’t have offered 9 to 4 about him in
the poor field he had to meet in the Three-
year-old Handicap. As it happened, the
Maoriland-bred gelding beat the weak oppo-
sition very easily—more easily than McCar-
ten made it appear. McShortodds took no
risks with Golden Voice (7 to 4) in the
Flying Handicap. That gelded son of Demos-
thenes —Golden Shoe easily disposed of Lord
Romeo (5 to 1), who tried to make a race
of it with him; but Black Douglas (7 to -w
might have bothered him if the locally-
trained three-year-old hadn’t been knocked
back last of 19 when Golden Voice and Lord
Romeo were lengths in front of the bunch.
Patadawn was a warm favorite for the
Rosehill Handicap, but he didn’t manage the
last two furlongs of ten as well as his pre-
vious races had suggested he would, and he
was beaten by the ancient Gleam Boy (12
to 1) and Bollinger (5 to 1). Too much use
was made of Lovebox and Lord Kenna-
quhair. Puff, another from Mainland,
avenged Patadawn’s defeat by taking the
Carlingford Mile, for which she was backed
at fives.
STICKING IT OUT.
ENRGED SECOND (to safety-first principal): “Stand up to ’im, blarst yer! Remember y'r
a pug, not a porous plurster."
was generally supposed to be too far for
her and she started at tens —outsider of the
party She hit the front at once, and
although Tullius (5 to 1) made a run. at
her in the straight, she had enough in hand
to win by half a neck, Bethanga (7 to 2)
being half a length behind Holt s gelding.
Ashley Reed rode the winner, who was
clocked at lmin. 40isec— smart for a mere
“sprinter.” Punters had marked down im-
partial, easy winner at the Valley and not
unduly penalised in the Welter, as the good
thing'of the day, and he was. Six to four
when they were lined up, the Quaestor
Fairwind gelding came away from his held
as soon as little Roberts called upon
him. He is a decidedly good welter horse.
* * * *
Gothic has been given lOst. 71b. in his
third Newmarket. The handicapper reckons
him 81b. better than Greenline and 91b.
better than Amounis; and probably he is.
Mollison is not out of it with Bst. 131 b., if try-
ing to make a Derby horse of him has not
interfered with his speed. fission- (7st.
71b ) is a likely lightweight, for the Aus-
tralian Cup Winalot has been given 9st.
71b., Maple 9st. 41b. and Statesman 9st. 31b.
—rather hard on the Westralian mare.
Kentle may be a possibility with 7st. olb.,
though he failed in the Hobart Cup.
“H.H.”: Honest old Trafalgar, Wallace’s
greatest son, has been destroyed ; the old
fellow broke a leg. Bred in 1905, he won 24
events and £24,111 in prize money before
Walter Mitchell decided to retire him to the
stud Like other stayers who did a great
deal’of racing in their time, lie lias been
somewhat a disappointment as a sire, borne
years ago he was pensioned off and retired
to paddocked ease at Toowong Hill on tne
Upper Murray.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Boxing and horse-racing are alike in the
respect that so-called good things veiy
often come a thud. Saturday night s
contest at Sydney Stadium was a case in
point. Jack Roberts ( 9st. 71b.). the
hard-hitting Newcastle boxer, met Filipino
“Kid” Johnson (9st.). Mainly owing to
the fact that the Manilaman had won his two
previous fights in short order, he was again
tipped as an easy winner, and the crowd
stayed away in large numbers. Roberts him-
self held different ideas and put them into
execution so forcefully that with 40 seconds
of the first round to go Joe W nins
crowned him victor. He nailed his oiTonen :
with a terrific right to the jaw and Homed
him three or four times before finishing Him
with another right that would have dropped
a bullock. The loser pluclaly tried to
weather the storm, which must have seemed
to him more like a typhoon. Ihe result di.
proved the idea that Australian boxers have
lost the ability to* punch. * _
Melbourne Stadium dug uf> Dick Congress
(9st. 341 b.) as an opponent for Mick
Knowles' (9st. 6*lb.) on Saturday night. The
well-worn Richard was no match for Mick.
In the second round Michael stood with his
right poised and a “walk-into-my-pwlor
expression on his face, and Dick obligingly
walked in. A trip to the canvas' followed,
and two annihilating swings in the fourth
round landed flush on Richards chin. Ihe
bell for corners beat the count, but the un-
happy veteran was so obviously dead to t.ie
world that Quirk saved him further annoy-
ance.
The Ins and Outs
England won the toss in the fourth Test
match at Adelaide on Friday, and alter
Hobbs (74) and Sutcliffe (64) had put up
143 for the first wicket, the home side did
well to dismiss the visitors for 334 by
three o’clock on Saturday afternoon. If a
had not been for Hammond, who again batted
faultlessly for 119 n.o. and carried the last
half-dozen batsmen by monopolising the
strike, the innings might have been a debacle.
Chapman’s 39 was the only other score wortn
chronicling. Grimmett’s bowling was the
cause of the trouble, among his victims being
Sutcliffe and Jardine. The South Australian
finished with 5 for 102, and gave by far his
best performance of the series. As usual,
the home team began disastrously, l>uck-
worth taking Woodfull magnificently on cbe
le<v side off Tate for 1. Next over he snapped
up Hendry (2) off Larwood, andKippaxwas
bowled bv White for 3, the third wicket fall-
ing at 19. Jackson, who had gone in first
with Woodfull, was now joined by the invalu-
able Ryder, and the pair set about the
bowling in such satisfactory fashion that
they had 131 up at stumps. Jackson having
compiled a most tradesmanlike 70 n.o.
Resuming on Monday, Ryder went l.b.w.
to White for G 3, and Bradman joined Jack-
son. At the lunch interval Jackson was
97 and Bradman 34, both not out, with
the score 4 for 201. Bradman was caught
by Larwood off Tate for 40. but Jackson
stayed till he made a splendid 164: then he
went l.b.w. to White. This made it 6 for
287.
* * * *
The Sheffield match between Victoria and
Queensland at Brisbane saw the Northerners
out in their first knock for the comfortable
total of 426. O’Connor, the reliable, took
76, but the honors of the day went to the cx-
Wavcrley (N.S.W.) all-rounder, R. Levy,
who gave a delightful exhibition of left-hand
batting for 129. Qtto Nothling. in his new
rOle as captain, laid the wood on for 56. Iron-
monger, for Victoria, troubled his native State
most among the bowlers, the ex-Ipswich
trundler taking 4 for 71. Victoria batted
stolidly, and, helped by the atrocious catching
which has been so marked a feature of
Queensland cricket this season, had scored
185 for the loss of Austin and Scaife when
stumps were drawn on Saturday. Onyons,
who is likely to become a permanent member
of the side, was not out 102, and the left-
hander Darling n.o. 37.
Onyons reached 105 before he was dis-
missed, and at the mid-day interval on
Monday the Victorians had five down tor
281.
)|c >|c >!‘ *
“Tenth Slip”: The N.S.W. eleven which
is to meet the Englishmen later in the month
contains a gratifying amount of new blood,
the selectors having fairly made up their
minds that the so-called “experience” fetich
has mud for its other name. 1 articular ly
interesting is the inclusion of the little lett-
hander Marks, who was playing State-school
cricket last season, and has figured with un
usual distinction in his games with the
N.S.W. State and second elevens this season.
Australia is looking for a left-hander, and
if this lad can train on the quest will be
ended. But all the new blood, alas! is m
the batting. Anyone remotely resembling a
bowler of promise has not yet been discovered
in town or country. Bettington, of whom
so much was expected, has failed to repro-
duce his English form in Australia, and has
been dropped from the State side. Its up
to the Federal Government to appoint a
Royal Commission to inquire what the deuce
has become of this country’s once flourishing
bowling industry.
* >[■ *
“Lansdowne”: For some reason, all the
critics seem to be convinced that Vic. Rich-
ardson, the brilliant if slightly uncertain
South Aus. skipper, oughtn’t to go in first,
though obviously Richardson docsn t share
their opinion. He stuck to his rule and role
in Adelaide the other day when his State
played England, and made close on half the
runs scored in the first innings besides seeing
seven wickets fall. And it isn’t only m
Sheffield Shield matches that he prefers to
lead off; when he captained an Australian
XI against England he did the same. A
captain who chooses to be an opening bats-
man when it rests with himself is pretty
safe to retain his place when someone else
is captaining, for it is seldom that there is
any keen competition for the position. And
why the assumption that, because a player
is a dashing and aggressive batsman, he
might be expected to acquit himself better
at fourth or fifth wicket '! Think of some
of the Australian openers of other days,
Percy McDonnell, Lyons and, later, Trumper.
Think of A. N. Hornby in his prime. One
stonewaller is all right if he is available, but
there are seldom two, and, if there were, they
might be too much of a good thing. If a
fast scorer and experienced cricketer has a
preference for Qpening the innings, I suggest
that he should be encouraged, not chidden.
* * * *
“W. G. Snort” : The Bendigo umpire who
impinged on the sacred majesty of cricket
by catching a batsman in a spirit of light-
hearted frivolity when tli e Englishmen were
playing has been expelled from the local
umpires’ union or whatever it is. He did
not go down without a fight, pointing out
that a dozen other departures from prece-
dent were made during the match. This is
always the case in games of this type, and
even in other minor engagements supposed
to be of importance. For instance, the Tas-
manian cricket authorities have called for a
report as to why the six-ball over was per-
mitted in the matches between the English
team and North and South Tassy. The
Englishmen came out here committed to
playing the Australian eight-ball over in
all save Test matches. They seem to have
wangled a change in the Apple Isle. How
or why is not clear.
(Continued on page Jjl■)
THE WORM TURNS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Whatever’s onkus in the grand old game,
Us books,” he growled, “have gotter take the
blame. .
No blinkin’ cert can ever miss the bus
lint what some smarty puts it on to us
Doped, was ’e doped—or pulled? Which-
ever’s done . .
They always know oo was behind tin; gun.
■Wot rogues they are,’ you'll ’ear, *wot
thieves and crooks,
Them books!’
“Scapegoats we gotter be for all the ramps
And cunning frame-ups worked on mugs by
scamps. , .
The artists draw us in lampoons that bruise.
Greasy, hook-nosed and swaggmg-bellied
About our prices ’orse-reporters bleat
As if our meanness ’ad ole Shylock beat.
They dub us artful Ikes and Tommy Rooks,
Us books!
“Yet without chaps like us can anyone
Vision a Randwick or a Flemington ?
Where’d be your Melbourne Cups, your
equine gods,
If there was nobody to ’owl the odds?
Totes, darn your totes; without, the, libelled
Ring
This turf of yours would be a poor old thing.
Wily eye us then with such cold, loathing
looks,
Us books?
“Us books,” he said, “we bring the clubs
their dough
And yet no obloquy’s too vile for ‘Mo.’
What myths our diamond rings and scream-
in’ rags!
What figments—all too oft —our bulgir
bags!
Cut out these jeers and gibes or, spare me
days!
You’ll kill the goose the golden eggs that
lays.
We’ve stood it long enough,” he swore,
“Gadzooks!
Us books!”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


Tungstone House-Lighting Plante Batteries 36-10,000 a h.
For Central Station-Works-Cinema-Yacht-Train.
For the First time in the World’s History of Plante Plate Casting, Tungstone’s Plante
Positive and Box Negative Plates are High-Pressure Machine Die-Cast in a Fixed Mould.
Up to the present, the Plante Plates or Car Pasted Type of all the World’s makers are Cast
by the uncertain method of Hand Pouring the Metal into movable moulds without Pressure.
t
Tungstone Deeper Cast Lammels and more Lateral Current-Distribution Ribs increase
the superficial area of the Positive Plante Plate by more than Ten Times.
The Lammels and Current-Distribution Ribs are guaranteed to be cast more accurately and solidly, in regular and
symmetrical line, free from broken, split or distorted Sections; thus permitting Peroxide to form deeply down; to
grow generously and hold tenaciously. Guaranteeing even and simultaneous discharge from full surfaces of all plates.
Tungstone House Lighting Batteries NO CORROSION AT INTER-CELL CONNECTIONS.
Fitted with Patented Tungstone Permanently Ebonized and Insulated Nuts and Bolts which the Acid cannot Attack or Corrode.
Tungstone’s Strengthened Plate. Longer Life.
NO WEAK METAL SPOTS IN TUNGSTONE POSITIVE PLATE.
More Metal Forced into any given Plate Area with an evenness
of Metal Distribution, Homogeneity and Reliability, producing a
Positive Plate that is entirely free from indiscernible blow-holes,
invisible cracks or splits, no burnt face surface areas or dross.
Increased rigidity of Positive Plate Structure absolutely secured
by the extra specially strong internal Conducting Bars. SeeI S ation
The increased stiffness of the Plates will withstand the stresses
of varying Peak Loads, Excessive Charges and Discharges
Certain preventative against early Plate Buckling.
THE POSITIVE PLATE WORKING LIFE CONSIDERABLY INCREASED.
INTERNAL
STRENGTHENING
Upkeep Costs
considerably reduced.
Exceptional High
Capacity Storage.
Very Low Internal
Plate stresses.
Uniformity of Charge
and Discharge on All
Surfaces. No Rapid
Voltage Drop at
End of Discharge.
Figures point to Increased
Metal Bars in Plate
Design and Construction
Securing Longer Life and
Higher Capacity.
FIG.l
FIG.2
m
FIG 2
I
FIG.4
FIG.6
i
FIG7
FIG.5
FIG.8 FIG.6
FIG.5
Only four continuous hours charge completes Works First Partial
Charge of any Tungstone Plante or Car Battery from 6 to 10,000 amps.
Plante can he immediately discharged for Light ONLY during First Charge.
WORLD’S REVOLUTION IN BATTERY PRACTICE. SAVING ALL OVERTIME AND NIGHT SHIFTS.
Tungstone's Works First Partial Charge Entirely Prevents Sulphation and Damage to Plate on First Charge
All other Makers 1 Box Negative Plates by the necessity of an exceptionally Long First Charge, always create Germs of Sulphation.
Excessive portions of Active Material become permanently sulphated, which cannot be regenerated by subsequent re-charges. Sulphation
is the cause of decreased capacity and amp. hour efficiency, and considerably shortens Working Life of Plate. All other Makers’ Box
Negatives at end of discharge are 1.85—a certain point that always stimulates Sulphation. Tungstone’s end of discharge is the Safe Point of 1.93.
Tungstone’s exclusive Works processes entirely prevent internal Sulphation to start or become a permanent part of the Active
Material. The Active Material is permanently converted into Pure Lead, no fixed patches of Sulphation germs are internally created.
A nominal amount is present, but it is not malignant and on a short re-charge is converted into Pure Lead.
Tungstone’s Partial First Charge o£ all Car and Plante Plates at Works fixes the Positive Plate with a thoroughly adherent and
homogeneous coating of lead peroxide which generously forms on whole Plate surfaces. With Security and Safety the Plate can be completely
charged and discharged at exceptionally high rates without shedding of active material, in the extremely short period of Four Continuous Hours.
Why other Makers’ Box Negative Plates Continually Lose Capacity making Shorter Working Life
Patented and Registered Trade Mark in the
Chief Countries of the World.
SB
V'-"
Tungstone Two Halves oS the Pure Lead Perforated Gauze Sheets, by High-Pressure Machine Die-Casting
are Riveted on both sides INTO the four edges of the Frame.
Simultaneously they are also permanently fixed UNDER the four main ribs
of the two Plate Faces.
By Tungstone’s original and exclusive system o£ construction the two Gauze Sheets are immovable and
an integral part of the completed Plate. This perfect unison ensures permanent metallic contact with the
Active Material, increasing the Capacity Efficiency, also securing Longer Plate Life.
Tungstone Box Negative Gauzes cannot Part from Frames
at the EDGES or SURFACES, therefore the Paste cannot fall out to create a destructive Short
Circuit or gradual Loss of Capacity. Prolonged laboratory research has produced a Negative
Paste free from sulphation with high porosity which does not harden or lose itsspongy properties and
harmoniously Tories throughout its active life in practical scientific balance with the Positive Plate.
All the World’s Makers (except Tungstone) Only Lay
the two Box Negative Gauzes on the Plate Faces.
They are not permanently fixed into the four edges on both sides of the frame.
This serious defect in all other makes of Box Negative Plates permits the Paste
to freely and continually drop out, creating Loss of Capacity, which demands
frequent Re-charging and earlier Re-plating.
The constant dropping out of the Paste is the main cause of frequent breakdowns of All other
Makers’ Batteries, also the basic source of reduced capacity and shorter Plate Life. Negative Paste
being Metallic, in falling out it invariably causes an immediate short by touching the Positive, which
always completely destroys a Plante Battery.
BRITISH EMPIRE LEAD USED IN ALL TUNGSTONE CAR AND HOUSE LIGHTING BATTERIES.
SYDNEY: A. J. Dawson, m.i.a.e., Sales and Service, 91 William Street (Tel., FL2084).
BRISBANE: Brisbane Cars and Tractors, Ltd., Wickham Street.
MELBOURNE: Hocking & Hadden Pty., Ltd., 208 Latrobe Street.


fin
III!
»gg ■ ■■ eg imrn
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station,
One Minute Wharves.
100 ROOMS.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
sd
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.Q.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of ail general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life. .
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
The Ins and Outs
Interest in the big cricket matches the
week before the fourth Test opened was very
feeble. In Adelaide, the Englishmen baited
a second time, though over 200 ahead, and
closed with 5 for 307, Hobbs making his
first century of the tour (101) and
Jardine 114. South Australia had lost
Richardson for 75 when rain drew the
match. The Victoria-N.S.W. Sheffield match
at Sydney was a long-drawn-out weariness
which few attended. Victoria, thanks to
Onyons (131), Scaife (91) and Darling
(96), lost 7 for 510 in the second knock,
N.S.W. winning on the first innings by
448. With 19 poinfs, and only the S.A.
match to go, N.S.W. must regain the Shield,
now in Victoria’s keeping.
* * * *
“Bowen Bridge”; An unusual happening
in cricket has been the request to the selec-
tors of L. O’Connor, the Queensland ’keeper,
to be relieved of his job of Aunt Sally.
O’Connor intends carrying on with the game,
but wants to figure in the outfield. His
reason is that he will have a better chance
of Test selection if he can satisfy the selec-
tors that he is a useful man away from
the sticks as well as behind them. There is
little doubt that O’Connor’s ability as
an opening batsman would have secured him
serious consideration for the third and fourth
Tests but for the fact that there was no
room for him as a ’keeper. A few years ago,
when J. Farquhar was the northern custo-
dian, O’Connor played in the outfield on more
than one occasion.
* * * *
“Gabba”: The cricket crowd in Brisbane
were taken aback last week when it was
announced that Otto Nothling had been
selected captain of the State eleven to
meet Victoria, vice L. O’Connor, who has led
the side for years. The new skipper is a
Queenslander who topped up his cricket at
Sydney Uni., and played for N.S.W. before
returning to his native State, lie has not
had much experience as a Number One in
cricket, but it is felt that he cannot do
worse than O’Connor, whose eccentric hand-
ling of his team has brought him a lot of
criticism in the last two or three years. His
sending in of the Victorians at Melbourne
on a perfect wicket last year, when they
made 793 and Ponsford put up the record
score of 437, will always be remembered
against him.
* * * *
“Stanley” : Queensland cricketers heard of
an old friend the other day when the English
correspondent of one of the dailies referred
to the “nurseries” for promising young cric-
keters which were flourishing at most of the
English county club headquarters. Particu-
lar reference was made to Leicestershire,
where the business of teaching the young
idea how to bat and bowl is under the eye of
Dr. Robbie MacDonald. As a polished
stonewaller who would make the stately
.Tardine look at Lyons by comparison, Robbie
figured prominently in Queensland elevens
in pre-Sheffield Shield days, with many good
scores to his credit. Queensland born, he
settled in Leicester years ago.
sfc sfc $c J|e
“Scorer”: When Don Bradman had done
with the Victorian bowlers in the recent
Sheffield match at Sydney his 340 n.o.
brought his total of runs for the first-class
season to 1207. Only eight others have done
the trick: Armstrong, Ponsford, Trumper,
Jim Mackay, Bardsley, Hill, Noble and Kip-
pax. The record for a season in Australia
is 1246, by Victor Trumper in 1910-11.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Touching E. A. McDonald
(B. 16/l/’29), it should be noted that
English cricket experts are giving the ex-
Tassy-Victorian trundler the credit for teach-
ing English batsmen since the war how to
play fast bowling. It is also claimed that
since he left Australia the local players
have lost the art of standing up to the fast
stuff, with the result that Larwood has
come as a horrid shock to them. It seems
rather far-fetched. England has had plenty
of decent speed merchants since the war,
and has always been able to produce three
of them to Australia’s one at any time.
Australian batsmen have had the benefit of
some seasons of play against Gregory and
other lesser lights of the same type since
McDonald departed. The run of the Tests
so far has gone to prove that Larwood’s
initial successes were of the nature of a
surprise attack. Few 7 , however, will cavil
at the contention, almost unanimous, that
McDonald is still the best bowler playing
cricket.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: There is a growing feeling
that figure records in cricket are worthless,
as they are in most sports and games which
are dependent on circumstances and condi-
tions. Bradman, who put uji the mammoth
score of 340 runs on Sydney Cricket Ground
recently, is a great batsman, and will go far
in cricket. His score wiped out a record
which has stood for 46 years—Billy Mur-
doch’s 321. But it was made against second-
rate bowling, backed by the most awful field-
ing ever seen on the Sydney Cricket Ground.
Yet the score will go down on the books as
a record, and will be quoted with approval
by a generation which has forgotten the
circumstances. It will be compared with
scores made by Trumper, Hill, Bardsley and
others against bowlers who were then among
the acknowledged world’s best. Einstein
himself would be hard put to it to discover
relativity between the cases quoted.
* * * *
“Spare Sub”: One would have thought
that the limit of ghastly fatuity had
been reached by Australian cricket writers
for the daily press, but it seems that there
are experts in England who can sink to even
deeper depths of balderdash. One individual,
by name Carson, who does that sort of thing
for London Evening News, stands alone
by reason of his suggestion that Chapman
should make sure of the remaining Tests by
dieting his men. He goes further, and sup-
plies the menu. This comprises “a well-
cooked steak with butter for Larwood, plus
a little seasoning with veal and chicken” for
variation. Also squares of potato and turnip
stowed in clear soup should be supplied “with
onions.” It is difficult to believe that a
reputable journal should permit the publi-
cation of such ghastly drivel, even by an
expert.
* * * *
“Harold Ilardupp”: Alan Fairfax has
come to light against S.A. and Vic-
toria. Anderson, headmaster of the
Ivogarah school where Fairfax finished his
school career, was sports master at Crown-
street school when Victor Trumper first
earned cricket fame ; and Anderson’s opinion
was that Fairfax was another Trumper, if
CRICKET ITEM.
“Blobbs was very subdued before lunch , but thereafter he brightened things up
considerably
not something better! Fairfax was given
a chance with the St. George first-graders
when only 16.
Racquet and Bawl
The Briton added yet another Australian
scalp to his belt when J. C. Gregory won
the singles tennis championship of Australia
at Adelaide from Victorian R. E. Schlesin-
ger by three sets to two. Gregory is the
fourth' Old Country player to lift the
title; the others were: J. C. Parke (1912),
Gordon Lowe (1915) and Colonel Kingscote
(1919). In those days the title was “Aus-
tralasian,” Maoriland and Australia com-
bining. Crawford and Hopman won the
doubles, and Daphne Akhurst the women’s
singles and the women’s doubles with Miss
Bickerton.
* * * *
“C.C.S.”: Like their cricket confreres, the
British tennis team in Australia have had
a bit of bad luck in the matter of casualties.
Higgs injured liis knee so badly at Ivooyong
that he will not be able to play for months.
He is leaving direct for England, while the
other three, Gregory, Austin and Collins, are
winding up their tour in Westralia.
* * * *
“Baseline” : There has been quite a heavy
mortality of recent months among famous
English tennis players of a past generation,
the latest being Wilfred Baddeley, who, with
his twin brother Herbert, lifted the doubles
at Wimbledon in 1891-94-95-96, the pair
earning the title of the “Terrible Twins.”
Wilfred was also singles champion on three
occasions, in 1891-92-95. Tennis twins
were quite common in those days, for in
addition to the Smiths, a first-class doubles
pair, there were the famous Dohertys, It. H.
and F. L.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Though Tasmanian tennis
players have a periodical tussle with Victoria,
they have been somewhat neglected by the
tennisocracy of the Ma State in the past.
By way of reparation, Tassy has been invited
to send a team to N.S.W. for the tourney be-
ginning on February 22, when Victoria and
the local side will clash in an inter-Stnte
fixture. It is also intended to pit the visitors
against some of the N.S.W. country associa-
tions, an excellent innovation.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: Now that the barge about
player-writers in cricket is supposed to have
been settled, what about turning attention
to the people who write about tennis in
which they are taking part? The British
and American authorities have made this
an offence. The same rule is supposed
to be in force in Australia, yet during the
championships in Adelaide competitors were
writing comment for the Sydney press, or
professing to do so, while the State and
Australian associations do not seem to have
blinked an eyelid.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Les McManus, one of the
most prominent of the younger generation
of N.S.W. professional golfers, has been
appointed professional to the Royal Hobart,
which ranks as Tasmania’s senior golfing-
organisation. For some years past McManus
has been assistant to Carnegie Clark at the
Royal Sydney, and owes most of his expert
knowledge of the game to the coaching and
supervision of that fine player and instructor.
* * * $
“Cowpasture”: A new golf course of a
semi-public nature will soon be open to the
public at Cunau’s Hill, between Camden and
Campbelltown (N.S.W.), some 40 miles from
Sydney. Under the style of the Smeaton
Grange Golf and Recreation Ground it will
cater for picnickers as well as golfers, with
tea kiosks, swimming pool, tennis courts, car
service station, etc. The golf course is GOOO
yards in length, well laid out, and over
ideal golfing country, with sand greens. It
should be ready for play by Easter.
* * * *
“The Mcllaggis” : Some recent litigation in
England is a reminder of how near the
world’s golfers were to enmeshment in a
world’s monopoly from which they would
have, had little hope of escaping. This was
the claim of Haskell’s, Ltd., that the wound-
core golf ball, which revolutionised the game,
was their sole invention, and that they were
entitled to exclusive patents thereon. It
meant that the firm would have had the
sole rights of making balls of this type, and
could fix their own prices. Their case was
defeated after a long and expensive action
on the ground that others had employed the
principle claimed by the plaintiffs as their
soh> invention. This was substantiated by
an old Scotswoman, who told the Court that
she had made balls on that principle for
years. She proved it too, by making some;
in court, winding the core, and coating the
ball to completion with a boiling solution
which smelt worse than a Sydney municipal
contract.
* * H« >lt
“Harold Hardupp”: My golf-mad friend
Spinks occasionally makes a golf-course of
King-street whilst he show's me stances and
the way lie played some particular shot; he
was illustrating how he got out of a bunker
■ —the gutter being the bunker —when a coin
rolled down the pavement. Spinks saw it
coming, and made his stroke with such
dexterity that the coin clinked through the
grating of the drain a few feet away. “Holed
in one!” exulted Spinks, and he was so elated
over it that he almost joyfully reimbursed
a wrathful lady for the florin she de-
clared she had dropped when opening her
purse. I am prepared to swear that the
coin Spinks chipped so expertly was only a
penny.
* i'fi $
“Carnoustie”: There are signs that the
hold of St. Andrews on the game of golf
is slipping. The Americans, of course,
years ago “made the long nose,” as the
French say, at the venerable club which is
the golfing equivalent of the M.C.C. in
cricket, but nowadays English and even
Scottish supporters have been showing signs
of restiveness under the barnacle-encrusted
sceptre. Matters came to a head in Scotland
recently, when the Scottish Golf Union, an
upstart body which is affiliated with English
and Irish confreres, raised the standard of
rebellion. The excuse seized upon for starting
the wliillaloo is that none of the unions have
been considered in the matter of the proposal
for altering the standard size and weight of
the ball. Roth America and Canada were
invited to express their opinions on the
matter. The home unions want to know why
they were left on the outer, and that’s why
the fur is flying.
* * * #
“Hoylake”: The golf epidemic, like that
of influenza, is invading every corner of the
earth, with this difference, that when it
arrives it stays for good or ill. Middle
Europe, though in fairly close proximity to
the chief centres of infection, England and
Scotland, has remained immune for years,
only to succumb at last. The Government
of Czeeho-Slovakia has granted £lO,OOO for
the development of the game in that coun-
try, and now Poland has implored J. H.
Taylor to come over and lay out a course
at Warsaw as soon as he has finished one
he is busy on in Sweden. The game should
go well among the Czechs and the Poles, for
the languages of both are said to be rich in
expletives. Sweden I’m not so sure about,
though if anything can stir the much-vaunted
Swedish phlegm, golf can be backed for the
job.
* * * *
“Brassey”: American golfing journals
have been discussing the case of Leo
Diegel, who, though he is one of the best
putters in America, employs the “pendulum”
stroke on the greens, usually considered a
heresy of the hottest. Leo has been ex-
plaining his success as due to the fact that
lie hurt a foot some years ago, and for some
time was compelled to putt standing on one
peg—indeed, he had to play his whole round
that way. However, he found that his golf
on the green was so improved because of
the disability that he has retained the one-
legged stance to this day, which means that
the club and not the body does all the put-
ting work. He is being imitated, of course,
by dozens of golf maniacs, and one may
expect to hear shortly of others who have
had their limbs amputated to get the neces-
sary result. Your golf addict will stop at
nothing.
(Continued on next page.)


0
o
W
Ensure efficient running by fitting B.E.S.
SPARK PLUGS. A type for every car, truck,
tractor, eycle, aeroplane and marine engine.
Fully guaranteed. All garages. Price 4/6.
Manufactured by
Australian Spark Plugs Pty., Ltd.
562 Spencer Street, Melbourne, C.l.
'Phones: F 4947, F 5961.
Chain s--Chains -- Chains -Chains
Conveyor
Chains.
Australian-made—better than Imported
Support Your Secondary Industries
Non-skid, hand-forged chains for a Ford to a
7-ton truck.
Chains for Collieries.
Chains for Brickyards.
Pit-cage chains.
Lashing chains.
Messenger and Steering-wheel chains.
Sling, Snigging, Plough and leading chains.
Roller and Conveyor chains of all descriptions.
Mooring and Ships’ Cable chains.
Made from best Staffordshire iron.
The only complete chain works in the Common-
wealth.
All chains tested to Lloyd’s standard and
certificates issued,
BLOOMERS CHAINS, LTD.,
BRISBANE.
fs
World’s Pigeon Championship.
Melbourne Gun Club, July 6, 1928.
Ist. W. BAULDERSTGNE (S.A.).
3rd. “CALROSSIE” (Vic.).
Both used
W. W. GREENER
GUNS.
There is no better
Shooting Gun made.
Procurable from all GUN DEALERS.
Catalogues on Application.
______
Wholesale Representatives;
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY, LTD.
405 Lonsdaie Street, MELBOURNE, C.l.
Car and Cycle
“Locomotor”: Centre of attraction at the
l aris Motor Salon of a few weeks ago was
a car that embodied about 19 new patents.
It had a cogless gear that allows of varia-
tions between 2£ to 1 and 1000 to 1 on
crankshaft speeds; rubber discs in place of
steel-leaf springs; a cooling system in which
the temperature is kept constant by a steam-
condensation, and a dash-board control of
the adjustments of clutch, front-wheel and
rear-wheel brakes. The chassis is a one-piece
aluminium casting, and more aluminium than
steel is used in the construction of the motor.
* * sjs *
“C. Bumpkin”: The Australian Grand
Prix for motor-cars (B. 9/l/’29), which was
organised in 1928 by the Victorian Light-
Car Club on Phillip Island (Vic.), will
this year be run over a course lengthened
from the 100 miles of last year to 200 round
a 61-mile circuit. Eight Hours Day (March
IS.) is marked for the event. Phillip Island
is gently undulating and sparsely settled.
Residents are so keen on the race that
they are subscribing a £lOO trophy and are
busy rounding off corners and improving the
roads. Cars have to be hoisted b.v crane
aboard the small excursion steamers for the
eight-mile trip from the mainland, though
there is a unique ferry available by a longer
route to the east. It is a punt with a
broken-down engine which is towed by sail.
* : i : * !|i
“A.W.”: Details of the Robertson auto-
matic gear forwarded from Loudon show
that it is remarkably simple, not only in
operation but in construction. A governor
on the driving shaft automatically adjusts
gear ratio to engine speed, and all the driver
need do is to control car speed by means
of the throttle pedal. This confers upon
the petrol-driven vehicle the cardinal virtue
of the steam automobile —an absolutely
smooth and even adjustment of engine speed
to load. Many manufacturers are at present
constructing experimental models of their
cars embodying the Robertson gear, but the
Armstrong-Siddeley people, mentioned in this
connection (B. 3/10/’2B), are not among
them. They have developed an epicyclic gear
of their own.
* * sjs Jjt
“Chev.”: Michael Terry’s eight months’
trip in the interior was a tribute to the
value of the six-wheeler for mastering road-
less country. His two Morris trucks
weighed, when loaded, over 31 tons each,
and they ploughed through deep sand and
mounted steep and rocky country for 2000
miles, with the loss of a couple of king-pins
and two spring leaves. It took the cars
only four days to cover a distance over
which the camel lollops for a month: and
they successfully tackled, dry stages in mid-
summer which, despite his celebrated
capacity for doing without a drink, are
beyond the hairy oont. To show what he
had been through Terry gave a demonstra-
tion the other day on a bit of waste land
at Port Melbourne, and local motorists were
quickly convinced.
* * ❖ :Jc
“Potztausend”: The weirdest thing in
small cars yet seen on the astonished market
is the new German “Hanomag,” a one-
cylinder affair, with a chain drive. The
engine is water-cooled, and a fan sucks air
through the radiator, which is within the
body and behind the engine. It is 2-h.p.
rating, developing 10-b.h.p., the single cylin-
der having overhead valves operated by push-
rods. Three speeds and a reverse are pro-
vided for, and a speed of 45 m.p.h. is claimed.
A self-starter is fitted, and steering is by
worm and wheel, while the foot controls are
in the usual position. The first specimen is
on view in Sydney and more are to follow.
Sixty to seventy m.p.g. are also claimed.
* H* jJj ;I:
“Whizz”: The annual list of motor cycle
records published by the Federation of Inter-
national motor-cycle clubs contains two new
records of over 120 m.p.h. by the British
rider O. M. Baldwin. These are a kilometre
spin at 124.62 m.p.h., and a mile at 124.48,
both with a flying start. In addition to
these outstanding performances there are 11
over 100 m.p.h., and three over 90. The great
majority of the successful cycles ar c Britisli-
made, and most of the records are held by
British drivers.
* * * *
“Contact” : An important change lias been
made in the method of staging the Schneider
Cup race for speed seaplanes. When the
race was first inaugurated speeds were less
than 200 m.p.h., and the triangular course
then laid down by the rules was compara-
tively safe. Pace has climbed up since then
to over 300 m.p.h. and this year’s objective
is a minimum of 360. The danger of making
the sharp turns required by the triangular
course has been greatly increased by the rise
in the speed ratio —in last year’s contest at
Venice even the daring Italian airmen
shirked the risk. The next race, over the
Solent in England, is to be flown over a
four-sided course. This will reduce the
danger of the turns, though, at the tremen-
dous pace to be expected, the reduction will
by no means spell safety to the pilots.
‘‘Make and Break”; Another of the Eng-
lish team which is to try to hold the
Schneider Cup for speed seaplanes (B.
-o/l/ 29) is Flying-Officer Stanilaud, who
is as handy with a motor-cycle as he is
with a plane. He has created a number of
records, the latest being 115.82 m.p.h. at
Brooklands with an international class F.
Excelsior.
Miscellaneous
. “Blade”: Mosman’s triple win at the An-
niversary regatta has put the club so far
ahead in the pennant competition that it
seems a certainty the Sydney club will regis-
its eighth consecutive championship of
N.S.W. rowing when the season closes in
May next. This will equal the Sydney
B. C.’s long-standing record from 1880 to
1888, while it is well on the cards that the
Ked and Whites will lift the King's Cup at
Perth.
* * * *
”Booligal”; Curiously enough, R. N.
McCulloch and 11. Morphett, both members
of the Oxford eight (B. 3/l/’2B), had
never met until rowing brought them to-
gether on the Isis, though both were born
on the ltiverina, the first at Corowa
and the second at Urana. Neither of them
had much opportunity for rowing, in early
youth at least. Although Corowa is handy
to the .Murray, there is a dearth of eight-oar
racing thereabout; while at Uruna, a little
further north, there is rarely water enough
to float a canoe.
* * * *
“M.G.S.”: The arrival in Melbourne of
14-footers from all over Australia reminds
me that one of the craft once reached Java.
It was sent for by an enthusiast from West-
ralia who was stationed on Bali Strait, lie
soon trained a crew, born seamen from the
Malay, kampong, and wheii he appeared one
day with spinnaker, balloon jib, topsail,, ring-
tail and watcrsail all set and waltzed through
the native fishing fleet of dukongs (no mean
speedsters themselves) the yells of “Adohai!”
and “Allah!”-could be heard for miles. His
ability to keep the boat from capsizing under
such a press of canvas was attributed to magic,
and when, on leaving the country, he pre-
sented the now decrepit remains to his crew,
nobody at first would touch them. However,
native ingenuity found a way out. Passing
through the place a year or so later, the
Westralian saw his former possession skid-
ding before the \<dnd with a solitary old
serang lolling in the sternslieets. It had
been fitted with two enormous outriggers.
s i* s l { s|c ;j;
“Hooker” : Some 30 years’ exposure to all
manner of professional sports and games
leaves me unmoved by Harry Sunderland’s
impassioned plea for any class which con-
verts a game into a money-making propo-
sition (B. 23/l/’29). Of course, there is
any number of reputable citizens among
professionals, but the bad ones leaven the
lump, just as one invidious oyster destroys
the pleasant flavor of its dozen predecessors.
In congratulating Malcolm 011 not returning
H. LARWOOD, once a Nottinghamshire pit
boy, whose fast bowling has been one
of Australia’s most formidable hurdles
in the Tests.
to the Rugby League I had the record of
that body in N.S.W. during the past two or
three seasons particularly in mind. It has
been one long string of brutal assaults by
players on each other, coupled with riots
between spectators and players. It bears
the stigma of that occurrence at Coota-
mundra last year, when an English player
kicked an opponent in the month, and was
merely cautioned for the brutal ruffianism.
With the Queensland League, the N.S.W.
body has incurred the reproach of condoning
similar acts of barbarism and rough play
by that particular gang of visitors. In no
case did the tourists receive anything worse
than a caution, and the means taken to deal
with local toughs were equally futile.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Brisbane Uni. has decided to go
over to the Rugby Union game from the
League, and Past Grammar, one of the lead-
ing grade clubs, has followed suit. It is an
outrageous anomaly that any university
should foster a professional game; the subse-
quent handicap upon university athletes who
have competed as professionals is only one
of many serious objections. Past Grammar,
LES McMANUS, the young Sydney golfer,
who has been appointed professional
to the Royal Hobart club.
formed of old boys from Brisbane Grammar
School, is a revival of one of the most
famous and successful of the old Queensland
Union Clubs. In Sydney the members, as
old G.P.S. boys, would naturally be playing
with the amateur code. In Brisbane they
had no choice until the reorganisation of the
Union code.
* / $ * *
“Gate”: As everyone expected, the leading
Sydney League footballers who played in a
forbidden but profitable electric-light match
have been let off with a caution by the
N.S.W. executive. As the offenders com-
prised the greater part of the State’s first
thirteen, what the doose could the poor old
professional body do? Killing the geese that
supply the golden eggs is a mug’s game.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: There is a breath of old
times in the story of Australian champion
sprinter Tom Miles, of Bundaberg, and his
action against the Bundaberg Poultry Club.
Thomas sought to recover 40 quid from
the chook-fanciers, being half the proceeds
of a meeting at which he was to have a
fly at the world’s record for 100yds. The
club claimed that Thomas was dilatory,
and did not make “a faithful attempt” on
the record. The beak agreed that Tom
loafed on the job, and found for defendants
with costs against him. There is no doubt
the boy is not being properly handled. After
his running in Victoria last year he should
have done a clean-up tour of Australia while
the going was good, and then might have
had a shy at the Old Country, where there
is still plenty of money for professional
sprinters of quality in the northern manufac-
turing towns, if they are prepared to listen
to reason. The failure at Bundaberg re-
flects on the rooster Rajahs as much as on
Tom’s managers. If I’d been managing that
show, Tom would have broken the record
(in the papers, anyway), and the watches
put on him would have borne out the story.
* * * *
“Mick Marr” : A billiard-saloon proprietor
who has kept tables for years assures me
that the game originated by the London
pawnbroker William Kew is not as popular
in. Australia as it was. “Too many other
things for the young felloes to do at night,”
he says. Night tennis and swimming, speed-
ways, picture-shows, etc., all take their bit
out of his pocket. The growing number of
schools of arts and private tables have also
put a kink in the saloons’ trade of late
years. Still, one does not notice many
starving saloon-keepers.
* 4= He *
“Backwoodsman”: South Africa, which
has been badly bitten by the bowls bug of
late years, has been suggesting a visit by an
Australian team. As Australia is sending a
side to England in 1930, it is proposed that
S9uth Africa be included in the homeward
itinerary, or even taken on the outward
journey if more convenient. A British
team toured the country in 1925, and another
is expected in 1930. If the Australian visit
could be made to coincide, a triangular tour-
ney might be arranged. South Africa, by
the way, pays the expenses of its own
touring teams and those of visitors.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Clievroford”: Henry Ford hopes to pro-
duce 1,800,000 copies of the new model in
1920. Already 400,000 have been made and
delivered in U.S.A. alone. The Geelong
works expect tli e Australian 1929 quota to
be 20,000: thus far 8000 of the new model
have been assembled and delivered.
* * * *
“Aileron”: Air services have proved a
godsend to New Guinea goldfielders. With
full loads, and making the round trip three
times daily, the two Junker ’planes in ordi-
nary use can carry 150 passengers and 60
tons of cargo a week. Under the old system
it would have taken 75 native carriers close
on three years to shift the same tonnage
from the beach to the goldfields in the clouds.
* * * *
“Lapin” : There has been a bit of a run
on permits for fur-rabbit breeding in N.S.W.
One firm just outside Sydney has a rabbit
run carrying 120 Angoras, and has applied
to the Minister for permission to import
high-class stud stock. It should not be long
before we hear of the A.W.U. applying to the
Arbitration Court for a rabbit-shearing log.
* * * *
“Hamer” : Although the Adelaide S. S.
Co.’s new motor-ship is being built in Scot-
land, the wireless installations will be Aus-
tralian-made. Amalgamated Wireless is well
ahead of competition in its line. During the
war thq Australian concern provided wire-
less operators for ships employed in Pacific
and Asian waters. One of its men found
himself on a vessel ferrying a coolie labor
battalion up the Tigris. To his radio mes-
sage giving the probable time of arrival at
Bagdad came the reply, “Wireless super-
fluous ; we can smell your crowd coming.”
* * *
“J. 8.” : U.S. oil companies have to send to
Britain for their tankers. U.S. railway-
men go to the same old reliable firm for the
type of vessel that carries trains over
stretches of sea. The biggest thing in train
conveyors yet seen is British-built; it is to
run across the Gulf of Mexico between
Havana and New Orleans for Overseas Inc.,
of New York, and will transport 92 freight
cars every trip.
* * # *
“Caunix”: One Harrison, of St. Helens,
Lancashire, claims that he has perfected a
device which will multiply electric current
from any source 20- or 30-fold. Current
from an ordinary lamp-socket was passed
into his machine and led thence to six 100-
watt lamps, which were kept burning bril-
liantly on about the same amount of current
as is used for a single 16-c.p. lamp. An
enterprising American professed to perform
similar marvels in the way of power-produc-
tion. It was found that his motor was joined
up to a secret reservoir of compressed air.
if * *
“London End”: Naturally, most of the
work on Britain’s super-airship RlOl has
been kept extremely hush-hush. But now
that the job is nearly finished, Bolton and
Paul,- of Norwich, who fashioned the whoi ;
of the huge framework and evolved, in con-
junction with the design staffs of the Royal
airship works, girders, cables, tubes and con-
necting links that made new world’s records
for lightness-CMw-strength, have lifted the lid
as far as is expedient for the benefit
of 12 discreetly-selected newspapers— The
Bulletin was one of the two oversea jour-
nals chosen. Each of the dozen reps, carried
away with him a memory of a vast factory
and an excellent luncheon, and under his
arm a bulky volume that enumerated the
company’s mechanical triumphs. The
assemblage of the parts which the Norwich
concern manufactured was done in the
Government works, and it didn’t have a
single piece rejected. It made immensely
strong tubing on a stainless steel recipe and
perfected a system of cutting and pressing
duralumin girder webs. A great deal of
the work necessitated the exploration of new
fields.
* 3|« ❖ *
“8.5.1.”: In an island group brought to
its knees, as the British Solomons are, by
Government ineptitude and neglect, it is not
to be wondered at that commercial interests
have had a bad spin. So much is this the
case that the staple industry—cocoanut
planting—is speculating whether it is to be
allowed to expire, or whether at the eleventh
hour something will be done to help it. Its
native labor costs are three times those of
New Guinea. The labor supply has dwindled
from 4253 recruited in 1916 to 2360 in 1927.
Needless to say, development has been quies-
cent for about a decade, planters consideHng
themselves fortunate to be able to hang on
and maintain areas previously planted. And
the profits? Well, there is scarcely a com-
pany in the Solomons paying a dividend,
and the dividends that are paid are around
5 per cent. Fancy taking the risks of the
tropics, and waiting from 10 to 15 years for
5 per cent.! Of course, it has long been
brought home to the blighters engaged in
planting that it is a crime to make a profit.


I
I
(iiittiimuni
For Bright Homes
Every Night
DELCO-LIGHT
In the darkness a Delco-light house stands out
like a beacon. The bright white shafts stream-
ing from the half-open door and through the
windows give you a sense of real happiness.
You seem to feel instinctively that people who
live in such a brightly-lighted place can only
be bright themselves —hearty, jolly folk—
waiting to give you a wonderful welcome.
With Delco-light your home can be as bright
as if it were lighted with city electricity. And,
of course, a Delco-light plant also enables you
to enjoy other electric labor-saving devices —
pumps, vacuum cleaner, washing machine,
electric iron and Frigidaire permanent
electric refrigeration.
No matter how high the thermometer rises,
Frigidaire keeps your perishable food cold all
the time —night and day without any attention.
Think what that means —crisp salads, firm
butter, icy fruits and oh! best of all —ice-cold
drinks whenever you want them!
No matter how far away you live, you can put
all this extra brightness and comfort and labor-
saving into your home this summer. Fill in
your name and address and post this advertise-
ment for full particulars.
df
DISTRIBUTORS:
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
307-15 Kent Street, Sydney
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
380-82 Bourke Street, Melbourne
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
172-74 Pulteney Street, Adelaide
STEWART & MACLEAN PTY.,
LTD.,
104 George Street, Launceston
Please send me Booklet “B,” giving full particulars
of Delco-Light.
NAME
ADDRESS
DELCO-LIGHT
Product of General Motors
“ACKNOWLEDGED LEADERS IN THE SPORT WORLD”
Mick Jimmcnj
The Ultra
in Clubs!
*ti
V
W
“WILL CORRY”
GOLF CLUBS
Products of the finest craftsmanship, scientifically
matched in weight, length, loft, lie and balance, they
have been unstintingly acclaimed by leading Golfers
everywhere. Let Will Corry match your old Set with
his new graded Clubs and you will get a new thrill
and jest out of the game.
MATCHED WOODS (Genuine Rustless) . . 25/-
GRADED IRONS 257-
SPECIAL GRADED IRONS 20/-
Professional Golf Tuition
By Mr. *Corry and Assistants on the Roof
Sports Ground.
Expert Tutorship—Moderate Fees.
A Leader in Its Own Class!
sd
THE
“COURT
CRAFT”
PRICE ,
241
For the Schoolboy or Schoolgirl player, or even an
adult tyro, there is no better or more suitable racket
to be had anywhere to-day. Its points of superiority
are its wonderful dependability and beautiful crafts-
manship. Made from selected English Ash, it has
bevelled frame, with shoulders doubly strengthened
by an inlay of raw hide, and extra strong gut binding.
Perfectly true in weight, shape and balance. Strung
with dependable gut. Capable of honest and lasting
service, it is amazing value at . . . . 24/-
Tennis and Golf Catalogues post free on request.
( Carriage paid on Golf and Tennis Material.)
. Tdick tSimhtonsfo,
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket, Sydney
AND AT BRISBANE,
“Australia’s Largest Sports Outfitters.


Under
Royal
Warrant
fs
ToH.NL
George V ,
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
CharfesTfeidsieck
mams
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company limited
SYDNEY.
-) •
\v
champache
'iarieslleidsieON
Reims
*»wnC!> \
PELLiSSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Averts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
15he WENTWORTH
A Hotel of T)istin6tion
To which men and women of Distinction the world over
return time after time. Built on historic Church Hill, it
has itself become of almost historic interest. Here, in the
heat of summer is the cool and restful comfort that results
from scientific ventilation, and in winter cold winds are
forgotten in its centrally heated atmosphere. Here, too,
are a perfect cuisine, a spacious lounge and efficient
service—service so graciously given that it has earned
for the Hotel in Australia and Overseas the title of
The friendly Wentworth
CABLE ADDRESS: MUM, SYDNEY. TELEPHONE: 8W1361.
B>2MacleaySt.
Limited
The Company will transfer its
business to the new Private Hotel
in Greenknowe Avenue, Potts
Point, in March, 1929, where it
will feature Central Heating,
Private Baths and Telephones to
each room.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views.
Inclusive Tariff from £5/5/-
per week, or £l/1/- per day.
Bed and Breakfast from
£4/4/- per week, or 16/-
per day.
For appointment to view ’phone
F 2161 (4 lines). Telegraphic
Address: Fifmac, Sydney.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
CHAMOISETTE
GLOVES
Sydney welcomed home their State Exes,
with a cool wind, and that surprised them
very much ; for while they had been among
the icy stretches of the Franz Josef glacier,
Lady de Chair and Elaine had nearly melted
with the reports of bush-fires and tempera-
tures of 106° lying in wait for them. This
Franz Josef and the Fox glacier further on
have captured the vice-reine’s imagination,
and she sees in it the future cooling-off place
for all rich, and perhaps not-so-ricli, Aus-
tralians. The approach to the icefields is
through rich sub-tropical trees and under-
growth and scenery of majestic beauty.
The soldier memorial in Auckland also
called forth a note of admiration. It is a
museum built of gleaming white stone in
the purest- Greek architecture. Its arches
and doorways are carved with a frieze —
vague, indefinite; in the style of those in
old Greek temples. It is only close scrutiny
shows the figures in the allegory are all
Anzacs. The surfing and the trees and gar-
dens of Honolulu are other memories to
be treasured. Of the tree-shaded roads
Lady de Chair speaks with enthusiasm—
everywhere noble and graceful trees combat
the glare of the sun.
But, after all, there’s no place like homo.
Certainly none of the other Government
Houses can come up to the one above the
Harbor, Lady de Chair says; and now, dug
in once more in their friendly home, the
family does not intend forsaking it for the
Sutton Forest establishment this summer.
Chief Justice Philip Street and his lady
were among the larger consumers of pekoe
last week. The two sailed off by the Orsova
on Saturday to be far from court and (this
Letter hopes) care for 11 months. Before
they went the St. John Ambulance passed
around a loving-cup heady with the brew of
young tea buds. The lady, who is just re-
covering from an illness, has poured her
usual enthusiasm into her job of president
of the St. John Auxiliary, while her knight
has made a dignified president of the N.S.W.
Centre. The guest of honor (the party was
really to the lady) looked as fresh in her
navy and beige outfit as the fragrant posy
of deep-red roses handed to her by the
hostess, Mrs. Violet Bennett. Speeches were
cut to vanishing-point—-the day was hot-
cross-wind and ash Wednesday of last week,
and would have taken the curl out of even.
Henry Braddon’s tongue if he had been
there. The only cool things were the green
and white damask tablecloths and the mauve
and white scabious. The friendly Kelso
Kings were at the party, with such keen St.
.Tohners as the Dr. Storie Dixsons, the
-T. W. Maunds, Dr. J. Adam Dick and
just-returned Doreen and Joan Higgins.
Your new winter top-coat must be a tweed.
It must be tailored, and must have a deep
collar and cuffs of fur. Broad-tail stone
marten, or, if pa (or whoever he is) has
had a good year, Persian lamb, is the skin
to demand when ordering the coat’s extremi-
ties. The collar must be cut high and snug
to the neck, and may hug the tops of the
shoulders. Tucks appear on the backs and
sleeves of these coats, but they are of the
inverted order. The linings are very impor-
tant, and are carried out in contrasting tones
of satin or crepe de Chine. The inside of one
leaf-brown mixture is of pale-buff crepe de
Chine outlined in cinnamon brown. These
tweed coats are at their best worn over
jumper suits in jersey cloth or a tweed skirt
with a jersey top.
For more formal wear there’s the new
transparent velvet. Light as a feather, this
is of the nature of chenille and has the
sheen and mobility of satin.
Many of the new models this Letter viewed
the other day were thickly sown with spots
—spots the size of a silver coin: spots like
colored confetti. One sleek black frock had
been caught in a carnival shower of red and
green madness. Its very flared skirt was
short in the front and gradually dipped
almost to the heels. But this dip was no
mere elongation of flare; it depended on
the long svelte back of the frock, which was
moulded to the figure. All the best frocks
follow the lines of the figure, breaking into
fulness in the circular sweep of the skirt.
One of these in sapphire-blue velvets with
beige chenille spots had a side-drape follow-
ing the lines, of the cross-over bodice that
finished off with a jabot as closely rucked as
though the material were crepe de Chine.
A smart touch was the bolero back. A frock
of distinction was one that started in a
black chiffon bodice and went on, after the
usual long bodice, to a flared velvet skirt of
tw T o flounces. These were splashed with
misty white spots—rather like hailstones
melting. The long sleeves were finished
with tiny ruffles, and over it was worn a
coat of alternate diagonal bands of the
chiffon and velvet.
From which it seems that the straight or
chemise frock is dead, that the only waist
indication is in the semi-Princess moulding
of the long bodice, and that jabots and the
picturesque in cuffs are the season’s fancy.
The remarkable thing is the lack of bulk,
in spitq of the fulness of these flares. Most
of the dresses have that slim-enough-to-pull-
through-a-ring look. A pleated black skirt
had its yellow chiffon top kept warm by a
liip-length coat of gosling-yellow cloth
worked stiff with gold thread. It suggested
the Balkans, and certainly threatens up-
heavals somewhere when the right sort of
brunette appears in it.
Tulle and applique designs are the out-
standing features of the evening’s glad rai-
ment. After six o’clock your hemline must
be erratic, and much material is in the
skirts. These billow and spread. They wear
bustle effects, and have old-time sashes, and
great bunchy bows, mostly in the hip region
—enough rich moire ribbon in one of the«e
bows to make the entire frock of two seasons
ago! One light-as-air souffle was in three
shades of pink tulle. It blushed a rose-red
foundation, and languished away to the
faintest tea rose in its old-world bodice.
Another of similar architecture combined
apple-green moires and spotted net flounces.
These flounces were appliquod in a rose and
gold design that might have glorified one of
great-grandmother’s valentines. Another froth
of tulle looked like a satisfying drink of pale
ale. It was of the new amber, and boasted
a long wing-sleeved coat of tulle opalescent
with paillettes. There was a petal frock of
Dryad-green chiffon. Thousands of petals
formed it, every one of them picot-edged.
This had narrow side panels of petals drift-
ing almost to the ground. Near it, looking
as shy and solemn as youth, was a simple
white grosgrain with a long flappy side-train.
A scarlet moire of Princess design was
bunched into a bustle effect below a girdle
of two bands of diamente. These bands,
which outlined the back of the waist only,
and a little glittering scroll at the neckline
were the sole ornamentation. Dignity and
charm were allied in navy blue tulle and
satin. This had its net flounces blazoned
with appliques in gold and sunset, and it
wore a perfectly amazing hip-bow—bunchy
and soft, like giant roses, in gold and sunset
moire ribbon —trailing away into silence, as
it were, in the folds of the tulle flounces.
This frock, too, had the, cross-over bodice.
Mrs. Stephen Herford is one of Sydney’s
busy women. There is scarcely a committee
that does not
try to snare
her energy and
ability for its
cause, and as
long as the
interests o f
her three best
loved move-
ments are not
threatened she
will always
lend a hand.
First with her
come the Free
Kindergartens,
an d pa rticu-
larly the Ellen
Desailly i n
North Sydney,
of which she
is a vice-pre-
sident. Next
comes the
Welsh Choir,
of which, besides being a singing member,
she is the librarian. The Queen Victoria
Club, which really exists for the advance-
ment of music, has had her for its treasurer
for more than four years. Mrs. Herford is
a Victorian, and before her marriage did a
good deal of oratorio and church work in
Melbourne. Browning Mummery, who sang
La Bohemo with Melba both here and in
Melbourne, is the lady's nephew. Holly-
wood made the picture.
Up to Sutton Forest went half of social
Sydney during the week-end, for Jean Kater
chose Saturday, in spite of the age-old rhyme,
for her marriage with Ranald Munro, of
Indooroopilly, Brisbane. For a week Sydney
had politely wrangled as to whether Jean
was the most beautiful bride of the season
or only one of the most beautiful. In the
conflict the dimensions, soundings, hair, teeth
and articulations of every well-known wearer
of orange-buds in the past six months have
been ticked off. However, the Norman Kater
offspring, if not always awarded first place,
has generally been a close runner-up. Cer-
tainly her sleek young head was very attrac-
tive under its plain-cut tulle veil, and her
slim length emerged from its layers of snowy
tulle like some graceful but sturdy spring
shoot. Dr. Kater armed his daughter up the
old church of All Saints’ in Sutton Forest,
where in the full glory of the Munro tartans
bridegroom Ranald awaited her.
The frock calls for an N. 8., for its satin
bodice was tight-fitting and of the IS3O
period, even to the tucker. The skirt was a
double affair. The underneath tulle skirt,
tucked from the waist down, was sur-
mounted by another, equally billowy, that
enveloped it and fell to the ground. One of
the old-new crushed hip-bows, with yard-long
ends and a bouquet of clematis and frangi-
panni knotted with yellow roses, were other
effects. ’Maids Mary Kater and Betty Lloyd
Jones, in their pale-pink laces, had something
to live up to, for their escorts, Gordon and
Douglas Munro, strode beside them in the
swinging Munro kilt. Later, Mt. Broughton,
the country home of Dr. and Mrs. Norman
Kater, echoed with the merry tattle of the
congratulates. The honeymoon will be
continued in America.
Say “Happy
journey!” to
Chief Justice
Street’s lady.
She and her
husband sailed
on Saturday
for Europe,
and fo r 11
months Syd-
ney commit-
tees will feel
li e r absence.
She has a
positive genius
for presidency,
and when she
is in the chair
meetings g o
with a de-
cisiveness as
refreshing as
a well in the
desert.
The only really busy people in Sydney last
week were the lire brigades and the swimming
girls. While the former were kept on the
jump (on one day they had to pay as many
as 180 calls on the god of flames), the mer-
maids from the various States squatted on
the breast of the Coogec Aquarium like sea-
gulls on the rocking wave. Perhaps a more
speedy word might describe tlieir race
through the churned-up waters when they
started reaching out for championships.
Jean Docks seemed to swallow the hundred
yards at one gulp, so to speak, and was
only one-fifth behind Fanny Durack’s record.
Edie Robertson’s fine performance keeps the
breast-stroke championship in this State.
On Saturday the quicksilver Jean smashed
Fanny Durack’s wonderful record over the
400 metres, unbeaten for 12 years. Jean did it
in smin. 55 3-ssec., while Fanny’s memor-
able exploit stands at 6min. 3 2-ssec.
Hector Macquarie and Harry Matthews,
who pushed through to Cape York in a
Baby Austin and made the three months’
jaunt the picnic of their lives, were enter-
taining the tall Miss de Haviland, who is
chaperoning another baby round the world,
last Saturday. The two amiable young men,
who, by the way, paid all their own expenses
from the time Sir Dudley de Chair waved
them good-bye from Government House steps,
brought piles of photographs and all the hints
they had gathered, and spread them before
the English girl to help her on her way.
From here to Perth she will face the roughest
part of her journey. Her great dread is
that her car may sink in the sand. Once
in India it did that, and, although she bad
a girl friend with her, the two simply
couldn’t budge the obstinate little beast. Then
came two men, and casually—almost negli-
gently, it seemed —the car was wafted on its
way. This disgusting exhibition of the
superiority of the male over the female
muscle still rankles behind the blue-grey
eyes of this fresh-cheeked traveller. Miss de
Haviland, who is a sister of the famous
aviator, intends to do her desert trip in
shorts and a pleated silk skirt.
Dr. Frederick Watson, who was elected
third member of the Federal Capital Com-
mission on Saturday, married a sister of
Wally Marks, M.P., and their big place near
Canberra is a social centre.
In a week of Mendelssohn and tulle and
confetti and young things vowingj good-
looking William Gordon, man-about-town for
untold years, father of two married daugh-
ters, snatched the limelight. He offered
himself in matrimony, and was accepted by
Mrs. Gray at the Elizabeth Bay home of
the latter’s daughter, Mrs. E. M. Milne.
Mrs. Gray, who is one of the Queensland
Munro clan, was handed over by brother
David Munro, while Mrs. Milne clothed her
attendant aqt in palest pink georgette. The
bride wore rose-du-Barry marocain and a
black hat. Bridegroom’s son-in-law, Lionel
Jaques, best-manned.
Artarmon staged its own pretty wedding
last week, when Claire Parkinson sought the
blessing of St. Basil’s on lier vows to Archi-
bald Hume Geikie. White chiffon and lace
with an old Brussels lace wedding veil
formed this bride’s swathings, nor must the
silver-lace train with its coral pink lining be
forgotten. Bride’s sister Mrs. Edgar Ilaes
and Sadie Budge fluffed in the procession in
pink spotted net. The cake was cut in the
Artarmon Hall, where Mrs. W. It. Parkin-
son did the honors, supported by black satin
and an armful of pink roses.
Edith Bamford, of Grantham, Potts Point,
had St. James’s run out the red carpet for
her one night last week when she became
Mrs. Lionel W. Coppleson, of Wee Waa.
White moire and Mechlin lace formed the
wedding garment, while the tulle veil cas-
caded from a Russian head-dress of latticed
silver tissue and orange blossom. Two
matrons of honor in spotted pink net and
pink tulle hats stepped after the bride, and
Gordon McKellar was the 'groom’s chief
support. Accessories after tin? fact were
Harry Maas and Dr. D. G. Carruthers.
Allesley, the Douglas Carruthers Rose Bay
home, spread the wedding meats; Padre
Thomas Paul, rector of Camden and a friend
of the ’groom, calling a special blessing on
the knot he had come to town to tie.
Dorothy D’Arcy-Irvine, youngest daughter
of the bishop, is marrying into the church,
too. Her word has just been given to
Charles Thomas Kenderdine, of St. Andrew’s,
Lane Cove, and formerly of St. Philip’s,
Church Hill. The wedding will be the first
big flutter in the family’s new home at
Double Bay.
One of the prettiest girls on Bradley's
Head is among the week’s ring-flashers. She
is Joyce Holden, who has starred on many
a dance committee for the Boy Scout and
other causes equally commendable. The
young man is Ray Snelling, of Cronulla, a
member of a well-known printing firm. En-
gagement celebrations made Cronulla ring
last Saturday.
Dolly Daniell, whose father is a director
of Perdriaus and who lives at Killara, is
another making out a trousseau list. John
Shirley, of Shirley-road, Wollstonecraft, is
the swain who has prompted her to this exer-
tion. Wedding early this year.
The ’phone at the Con. developed into an
irritation last week, and the poor secretary
became tired of explaining that the institu-
tion’s new registrar was not Frank Hutchens,
the pianist. The new man is Frederick
Hutchins, and he was an officer-in-charge
in the Education Department. Mr. N.
Salmon, lately registrar, has been appointed
chief clerk of the Education Department, of
which we nearly all forget the Con. is a
branch.
Back in Sydney and looking up old friends
before digging into his job at the Conser-
vatorium is Spencer Thomas. Fifteen years
ago he toured Australia as leading tenor
with the Quinlan Opera Company. Later
he served in France, and after the Armis-
tice he sang leads with the British National
Opera Company. Teaching and engagements
at the big English festivals or Sunday
promenades have filled the last two or three
years.
There was a great roll-up to the Country
Women’s Association tea-party in the Gar-
dens last week. These summer teas are
held in the kiosk and are growing in popu-
larity. Ex-president Mrs. A. J. Studdy,
who was hostess, with the president of the
Singleton C.W.A., Mrs. Percy Stacey, told
all about the new rest home at Gunnedah.
It is residential, and caters specially for pre-
maternity cases.
“Southie,” formerly Paling’s concert man-
ager and helpful friend of half the world,
never told a story in which he was the hero,
but plenty in which he played some other
part. One was about the days of the Sydney
’buses when he lived at Paddington, and
was an inveterate concert- and theatre-goer
after weary school hours. One night,
homing after a heavier day than usual, he
woke up in the ’bus to find the rain pour-
ing in on him. He pulled his coat-collar
tighter and rubbed his eyes wider open. Then
he discovered that he had been left in the
’bus, and that it was back in the yard and
being hosed down.
Sydney’s old artist friend Neville Smith
drops New Year greetings from Arizona
(U.S.A.), whose desert sunsets he is busy
transposing to canvas. He hopes to have
a show of these on his return. A town with
the triumphant name of Phcenix is Neville’s
headquarters, and he lias already exhibited
with its Fine Arts Society and at the Annual
Arizona Fair. At this his “Dee Why’’ was
awarded Honorable Mention; and as only
one prize and one H.M. are awarded, the
Sydney man feels bucked. Later he had a
show of mixed Tahitian, Noumea and Aus-
tralian scenery, with novelist Gouverneur
Morris among his buyers. When not paint-
ing the traveller is singing for his supper,
and, he assures this Letter, never fails to
include some good Bulletin stuff in his
programme.


TWO DAYS SHORTER
THE NEW
FAST SERVICE TO
AMERICA
17i DAYS
Via Fiji, Samoa, Hawaii
The fastest service between Australia and America is now
established—a record-breaking achievement.
With the addition of the swift express liner "Malolo” in
the Matson Honolulu-San Francisco Service, this through
voyage is now TWO ENTIRE DAYS SHORTER.
To take advantage of this arrangement, passengers for America
may transfer from the "Sierra,” "Sonoma” or "Ventura” to
the "Malolo” at Honolulu. It assures a great saving in time.
It costs no more to take advantage of this service.
The following sailings from Sydney connect with this express
service:
"Sonoma” - March 2nd
"Sierra” - - April 13 th
"Sierra” - - June 15 th
"Sonoma” - . July 6th
"Sierra” - August 17th
"Ventura” - Sept. 28th
"Sonoma” - - Nov. 9th
"Sierra” - - Dec. 21st
REGULAR SAILINGS EVERY THIRD SATURDAY.
Call or write for descriptive booklets.
Cheap excursion tickets to Honolulu issued all the year round.
m
m Line
12 Bridge Street, Sydney B 29
Local Agents: Mcllwraith McEacharn Ltd., 94-96 William St., Melbourne; 117-119 King
William St.. Adelaide; Fremantle, Perth, Albany; Howard Smith Ltd., Brisbane. Townsville
xy
<
MS
?of
u
it. SO
koS-
I $ i 3 1 s- fi i i » £ fc'i te"s
s°§ ■M• m ' fi’lfH'rr
•S°s • |°i • l°| •I C T jw£-|o£ - gig- |o
■ s°2 - H'K
• |of • foi. |o| 14 t"f t u f'
? 8 S. I! * SJ fc,B
S fg s°g , .?°g-
tU
Wall Papers
in £oea
New Season’s designs to hand from Britain and
America. Nothing like wallpaper backgrounds.
They add elegance and distinction. Suitable
wallpapers will also correct building defects—
add warmth to cold rooms—subdue over-
lighted ones, and add height or decrease it.
We are showing now, at particularly favor-
able prices:
utifuC u)esians
POLYCHROMES
TAPESTRIES
LEATHERS
OATMEALS
SATIN FINISHES
BURLAPS
STYLE BORDERS FOR PANELLING
Call and See Us, or Write ror Samples.
Mention rooms you need papers for.
John Danks 8S on Pty., Ltd.
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney.
391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
‘The GC/JACD LINE of BEAUTY
:• ■
Bp
•V> H ’ :
. ■ .
mb
m
& 4'
;: ■ 'mt#,: JLj
I
V;
*f.-S’j
K I
SLENDERIZING
LINE I
GE INTRIGUING
JMARTNEJX
Larger figures will find new
comfort and slenderizing lines
in the latest Gossard designs*
Note the new hip line on this
brassiere, which comes well
down over the top of the
corset, and terminates in a
hose supporter* It shows a
special diaphragm reinforce-
ment, and is made of lovely
striped satin tricot.
Both in regard to comfort and style,
this delightful model meets every re-
quirement of fastidious tastes. Con-
struction provides a slight uplift
effect. Other special features make
for added loveliness of detail and
charm of finish. We suggest your
early inspection at the leading stores.
There are also lovely step-ins, com-
binations, girdles and front-lacing
corsets.
the Canadian h. w. Gossard Co., Ltd .
114-120 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY, N.S. W.
IlAjI
GOSSARDS ARE MADE WITHIN THE EMPIRE


24,828 Charming
design, two fine
Diamonds, 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
Settings, £3O
24,855 —Dainty Six
Stone Ring, 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
Setting, set with
fine quality, double-
cut Brilliant Dia-
monds, £2O
24,856 Dainty
Rings, set with
Diamonds and
Emerald, Sapphire,
Pearl or Black
Opal, 18ct. Gold
and Platinum
Setting, £lO
24,840 Choice
Three Diamond
Cross-over, 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
Settings, £l5
24,847—A1l Plati-
num Octagonal
Cluster, close set
centre, set with
fine quality, double-
cut Brilliant Dia-
monds, £45
24,839 —■ Fashaonr
able Seven Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold
and Platinum
Settings, £2O
%
iSr Diamonds
Catanach’s recognised leadership in Designs,
Quality and Value suggests the wisdom of
choosing Diamonds here. A Written Guarantee
is given with every Catanach Ring.
Catalogue post free on request. Write for it.
Corner Royal Arcade and Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, Cl, Victoria.
W-McF.
24,827 —Ten Fine
Diamonds, Plati-
num Setting and
18ct. Gold, £3O
.'JHgSGS
24,854 Dainty
Eight Stone Ring,
18ct. Gold and
Platinum Setting,
set with fine
quality, double-cut
Brilliant Diamonds,
£3O
24,835 Dainty
Five Diamond Half
Hoop, 18ct. Gold
and Platinum Set-
tings, £l5
24,831 Fancy
Cluster, 13 Dia-
monds, 18ct. Gold
and Platinum Set-
tings, £l7
24,844 —l7 Fine
Diamonds, Plati-
num Setting and
18ct. Gold, £25
24,846—A1l Plati-
num Octagonal
Cluster, open set
centre, set with
first-quality double-
cut Brilliant Dia-
monds, £5O
Melbourne
Chatter
Overseas shoppers are sending us hints
of the secrets fashion is preparing to dis-
close next season. Quite the smartest fabric
will be aluminium crepe. We have got used
to the idea of rubberised fabrics, which are
pliable, but aluminium sounds a bit unbend-
ing. However, spun into threads, the metal
works into what looks like a clingsome water-
proof silk of wonderful tones, and it seems
likely the stuff will meet a strong demand.
As president of the Women Citizens’
Association, Mrs. Britomarte James, wear-
ing black with folded toque of blue and
silver brocade, gave a hand of greeting to
Mrs. Sidney Herring, of Sydney, who looked
in here on her way from Europe. Mrs.
Herring, who is a member of the Murray
Prior clan, of Marroon squattage, Banana-
land, is a former president of the Women
Citizens’ Association of the Harbor City,
and while abroad was delegate at a confer-
ence in London in connection with infant
and maternal mortality.
The Royal Victorian Institute for the
Blind is sending out an SOS for monetary
help. The institute has grown to be the
biggest organisation of its kind in the world,
but the annual State Government subsidy of
£lllOO has remained stationary for 47 years,
and the Federal Government, which gives
nothing, won’t even remit the license fees on
the radio sets with which the R.V.1.8.
brightens the lot of many sightless persons.
A picturesque wedding was that of Mar-
jorie, only daughter of the R. R. Wilsons,
of Manly (N.S.W.), and Dr. Theodore Eddie,
of Winchelsea, which took place at the Toorak
kirk one day last week. The bride and her
trio of ’maids were attired in georgette, each
frock being a different shade of pink. The
bridal gown showed a mere suggestion of the
tint, framed in a veil of beautiful lace. She
carried a posy of water-lilies. Her attendants
were in soft frilly frocks, that carried the
range of pinks in three steps to a deep rose.
Each wore blending crinoline millinery. The
feast was spread at Chastleton.
Peggy Chisholm’s career on England’s
vaudeville stage came to an end last month
at the Brompton Oratory, where she became
Mrs. H. F. Tilbrooke. Her husband is
attached to the firm of Woolworth. Some
years have elapsed since Miss Chisholm and
her young sister Lena sailed from Sydney,
each carrying a scholarship which opened
the doors of London’s Royal College of
Music. The sisters completed their course in
brilliant fashion, and their piano and violin
duets have since found much favor in the
halls. Now that her sister has retired, Lena
is giving up vaudeville work, and intends
trying her luck on the concert platform.
Anne, only daughter of the C. H. Wrays,
of St. Kilda, and Alfred, second son of
Major and Mrs. E. E. Hirst, Huddersfield,
England, said their vows at All Saints’, St.
Kilda, one evening last week. Two grown-
ups and three tiny ’maids, wearing chiffon
frocks patterned in autumn floral tones,
were effective foils to the bridal array of
white satin and Venetian lace. Mr. and
Mrs. M. M. Phillips lent their Malvern home
for the wedding feast, which was attended
by the bridegroom’s parents, who came from
England for the occasion.
Some charming apparel was seen at the
wedding of Isabel Gair and Gordon Thomas
Robinson, at the Grammar School Chapel.
The bride had a Mechlin-lace veil trailing
over a train of silver brocade attached to
a gown of white georgette and silver lace.
Her two ’maids wore picturesque covering of
blue with same toned felt hats.
Dr. D. A. Dowling, accompanied by fellow-
medicoes Smith and Gilfillan, came over from
Adelaide to claim his bride, Mollie, third
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. G. A. Rees, of
East Malvern, last week, the bonds being
forged at St. Joseph’s Church, Malvern.
White georgette with embroidery of silver
top-dressed with a veil of lace, was the bridal
array, the three ’maids’ attire forming a rain-
bow effect of subdued lemon, pink and green
respectively, with hats and posies of corres-
ponding shades. The after rejoicings took
place at the Windsor.
The commanding and handsome Mrs.
Otway Falkiner will be missing from our
society gatherings this year. The chatelaine
of Widgiewa’s acres boarded the Cathay last
week bound for London and a sightseeing
tour of Europe. Accompanying her are her
small youngest son and her daughter Laurie,
whose education will be continued in Paris.
Sybil Hull, who was lion. sec. of the British
Music Association and one or two kindred
societies, returned the other day with her
brother, N. Hull, after a year abroad.
The Albion Walkeleys and Dr. and Mrs.
11. Douglas Stephens are among the throng
who have booked passages for Europe.
Sir Arthlir Duckham, of the Economic
Delegation, and his daughter Phyllis, who
have had a flat at Mayfair. South Yarra,
will leave by the Niagara this week. But
lie will come back, having decided to estab-
lish branches of his business in Australia.
Napier Waller, whose talents as a mural
decorator and stained-glass window designer
have rapidly earned him distinction, is pack-
ing up for an early sailing to England, where
he and his wife will spend a year or so in
study. Mr. Waller will complete two or
three of his window commissions abroad, as
he is unable to secure here certain glass
required.
Flinders-street, from St. Paul’s Cathedral
to Russell-street, has been diversified but not
improved by that freakish-looking architec-
tural specimen, the State Theatre. This
section already includes examples of the
Gothic, Moorish, modern Australian and
various hybrid styles, and the yellow and
orange picture-house, with its Spanish bal-
conies, domes and minarets, adds a last fan-
tastic touch to a motley collection.
Welcomes home have been extended daily
for the last week and a bit to Mrs. Harry
Emmerton and her niece Mary Emmerton,
who have returned after a North and South
American tour. Mrs. F. W. Eggleston led
what was almost a surprise party one even-
ing, when the chatelaine of Raveloe re-
ceived her guests in a black chenille embossed
gown. Tenors Walter Kirby and James Hay
helped with the entertainment.
Flitting back to England in March are
the J. S. Danes and their trio of daughters
after a sojourn here of about six months.
Mrs. Dane, who was a Melbourne girl, had
not been in this city for many years and
her stay has been a continual reunion with
relatives and old friends.
Justice Cussen and his lady did not get be-
yond their first port of call on the voyage to
Colombo. The lady became so alarmingly
ill between Melbourne and Adelaide that
their journey had to be abandoned.
Society assembled at Charminster, the
Todrak residence of Geoffrey Gibbs and his
pretty blonde wife, on Thursday afternoon, to
partake of a farewell tea-brewing poured by
Mrs. Gibbs, who is departing for England
this month. .
Having developed the wanderlust during
her recent tour in the Canberra district, Mrs.
J. B. Bellair returned only to collect her
mother, Mrs. Mitchell, and eldest daughter
Betty, for an Oriental trip. The trio left for
Sydney to board the Taiping for China, in-
tending to hop off at Hongkong and call on
an aunt now settled there, afterwards going
further afield.
The jockey’s profession—as a profession
—is barred to women, but they can ride as
amateurs.
Mrs. W. Mur-
rell, wife of a
jockey, availed
herself of this
privilege, and
rode two win-
ners and two
thirds at Bur-
rumbeet lately
The hors e-
woman, who
is here pic-
tured, was a
well - known
follower of the
hounds in her
maiden days
- she was
Violet Farmer
and was
usually in at
the kill. She
has won many
prizes at point-
to-point meetings, and numerous trophies
and ribbons at agricultural shows.
Mrs. Dervyn Deland, who halted here on
her way home to Adelaide, found life in our
cities very bustling and bewildering after two
and a half years' at Vanikoro, one of the
Santa Cruz group of islets, where her hus-
band has been stationed as medical officer.
The Dclands, with their baby, were given
passages to Noumea in the missionary
steamer Southern Cross, and then had to
wait two weeks for a south-bound liner.
Pat, daughter of Gregan McMahon, who
went off to London seven months back, has
found a job in a publishing house trans-
lating German script.
Another of our medical men has sallied
forth to wrest a fellowship from London’s
lioyal College of Surgeons. He is Dr. Tom
King, of St. Kilda, who, with Mrs. King,
has booked for an early sailing. They expect
to be on the absentee list for about two
years.
A year has passed since Mrs. Charley Mit-
chell, of Akarana, Lilydale, lost her mother.
Now she has received news of the passing
of her father, Thomas Blaney. at Arrangong.
West Grenfell (N.S.W.). The scythe fell
at the 88th milestone.
Dr. Barry Thomson’s popular wife, arrayed
in fawn georgette and lace, presided over a
small luncheon party at Menzies’ on Thurs-
day, when greeting was given to an English
visitor, Miss Burrell, who is accompanying
her brother on a business trip to Australia
and Maoriland, and farewells were said to
Barbette, a Dane who specialises in feminine
impersonations, and who, in his 13 years
before the footlights, has travelled over most
of the globe.
Marietta pictures here Nan McClelland,
sister of painter Harry McClelland, and
everyone’s friend. She can manoeuvre brush
and palette,
knows how to
fashion both
prose an d
verse, and is
a dashed good
cook. She is
one of the
coterie of
scribblers for-
merly known
as “the Dere-
licts,” but now
the Society of
Aus t r a 1 i a n
Writers. Once
a yea r, on
Found a t i <> n
Day, all mem-
bers of the so-
ciety meet at
Studioette, the
seaside home
of the Mc-
Clellands. a t
Frankston, and Nan plays the role of hostess.
The gathering this year was a particularly
large and happy one.
Mrs. Paddy Osborne arrived at her
parents’ home at Ennismore Gardens, Lon-
don, to find her father, Granville Ryrie, on
the sick list. He had been ordered to winter
in Egypt. Mrs. Osborne, who has her
twin sons with her, has plenty of other rela-
tions to take an interest in her young family.
Her husband’s mother, Mrs. Harry Osborne,
and numerous aunts and cousins live in
Fogtown or near by.
Pianist Una Bourne, who has been out of
Australia most of the time during the last
six years, has returned for a lengthy holi-
day. She has had a very successful career
on the concert platforms of Britain, the
United States, Canada and the Continent,
and was one of Melba’s supporting artists
in a concert tour of Australia a few years
ago.
Phyllis Lett, the English contralto, now
Mrs. de Burgh Ker, probably feels like chant-
ing a' sonorous Te Deum these days, for her
husband’s Bananaland stations Tweedsmuir
and Wyaldra have received good rain after
four years’ drought.
Under the title “Famous Beauty from
Far-away Australia” the Boston Sunday
Post the other day published a picture of
Nina Feodoroff, who “has been proclaimed
one of the most beautiful women in the
world.” The paper adds that her admirers
in Australia say she is the most graceful
dancer in their country, the owner of the
most eloquent hands and the possessor of the
most piquant face. Who is the lady?
Sydney ’Varsity, which doesn’t go in for
woman lecturers as Melbourne does, is to
add one recruit to its small band when
the term opens. Melbourne and Oxford did
their best for Kathleen Elizabeth Pitt, B.A.
(with high honors) of both universities,
who comes to lecture in history. The young
lady, whose father, 11. A. Pitt, is Vic.
Under-Treasurer, took a first-class in his-
tory and English literature at Melbourne
when she was 20. Then she went to Somer-
ville College, Oxford, to specialise in modern
history. She returned from the fogs just
before Christmas. Elder-sister Lorna. who
married an engineer and is settled down in
London, can also wear the blue hood.
One of an enterprising bevy of Irish-
Australian sisters trekked to Sydney on
her honeymoon the other day—Katrine,
daughter of J. T. Noble Anderson, the Mel-
bourne engineer. With her new husband,
W. Macmahon Ball, sociology lecturer at
Melbourne ’Varsity, she drove up from Vic.
to see the sights of Sydney. Of Katrine’s
sisters, Claire began as an engineering
student at Janet Clarke Hall, switched over
to surveying and then took to journalism
on the late lamented Morning Post. She
married scientist A. S. Fitzpatrick in Lon-
don not long ago. Joan, another sister, is
a landscape-gardener, and doing well over-
seas at the moment. The eldest of the
family, who ran a motor-service with' great
success, w'as accidentally killed. Katrine
herself has been freelance penwoman, gover-
ness and. lately, one of the attractions of
General Motors.
Is this a new one? It comes in a letter
from a proud mother outside Winton, in
Western Queensland, where they have had
five inches of rain after four years of
drought. During the break-up performance
there was a hailstorm, the clatter of which
was pierced by the excited shouts of a four-
year-old infant: “Mummy, mummy, come
and see the rain-eggs!”
Ida Dawson, the tireless Australian tra-
veller, writes from a rubbcr-and-coffee plan-
tation in Java:—
It is a lovely place, very far out and very high
up. At night we use several blankets, and always
wear European clothes. From the last of a succes-
sion of hills, one looks down a long winding valley,
over the tops of other hills, some covered with
the neat rows of the plantation trees, others cleared
ready for planting, others jungly ; flat places are cut
out on the hills for the assistants’ houses, native
kampongs, etc. Everything comes up per coolie or
on the backs of tiny little mountain ponies; yet
we have running water in all the rooms, and electric
light from water power. It is marvellous the way
the Dutch manage the water, and on a place like
this they seem to conjure it from nowhere. The
carnations are wonderful and there are huge trees
of roses and gardenias, 20ft. high or so, and ever
so many shrubs and trees covered with colored
blossoms, till the air is heavy with their scent.
Hut how it can rain! The lightning splits the
sky, and the thunder reverberates up and down the
valley as if it were seeking escape.
“The Big Parade” met with approval in Java.
It is one of the few films that white men and women
can sit through without shame among a native
audience.
At the Sanatorium [the writer was previously
teaching English to the head doctor in one of
Java’s largest mental hospitals] pictures were shown
regularly to the patients. On the night previous,
the doctors and their ladies were given a private
screening. Shooting affrays were naturally thrown
out without question; and the doctors were almost
as severe on those with long-drawn love scenes, and
particularly so where there were “undressing” inci-
dents. I was very pleased when an Australian film,
a simple story, showing country life and scenes was
passed without question, and quite enjoyed by the
authorities.
Now and again we find ourselves in a scene
as stirring as any of the movies. Just a
few days ago I heard a terrible row in the mill yard,
and looking over the edge saw about 30 of the
work-people goiing for the first assistant wijth
billets of wood. One of the boys must have got to
the telephone, for within half an hour a manager
from another estate was here, and within an hour
the Assistant-Resident of Malang and three clerks,
together with four carloads of police, Dutch officers
and native men. Meantime I was here alone with
only the house servants, the Administrator and his
wife having gone for a week’s jaunt.
But, there, you’ve heard all • about these “docile
Javanese” from scores of tourists!
“A.G.M.’s” note from London :
Lady Milbanke has been making an effort to
popularise the colored wigs of gleaming silk which
made their first appearance in society just before
the war. At a dance club one recent night she
covered her own admirably turned-out coiffure with
a wig of golden silk in which she looked unusually
attractive. But there seems no disposition to follow
this fashion. If anyone could have helped the idea
along it would have been Lady Milbanke. She is
pretty, graceful, always exquisitely turned out, and
has attained a unique position in London’s world
of fashion. Other Australian girls have married
men of higher rank and greater fortune than either
of her husbands, but no earlier Australian has
been so truly accepted as a leader of the smart set
as this dainty and vivacious little lady.
Mention of Lady Milbanke, who as Lady Lough-
borough lately married the boxing baronet who is
10 years her junior, draws attention to the fact that
women from Australia are getting the habit of
choosing husbands younger than themselves. Rupert
Clarke’s widow also favored a young athlete, Lord
Bective, who has the advantage of her Ladyship by
half a dozen years. Fred Sargood’s daughter, who
for so long seemed undecided which of two gallant
officers to take, let youth decide, and gave her
hand to the stalwart lan MacKillop, R.E., whose
24 years are six on the sunny side of her own.
And there are others.
Many theatre-goers will remember Gladys Ure,
daughter of the late James Ure, the Melbourne con-
ductor. She took singing parts in some of George
Musgrove’s Shakspearean productions, and won con-
siderable favor through her fine voice and handsome
presence. Later, with her mother, she went to
America, and after various experiments, in which
she failed to realise the promise of her early years,
she married an Englishman with the French name
of Le Cateau. Several of her songs were taken up
in the U.S.A. ; also pieces for the piano which she
played with great intelligence. Evil days have come
her way of late, and in addition to hard times she
is fighting against a very grave physical ailment.
At one time she was considered one of the prettiest
and most gifted girls in Melbourne.
P. J. Nally, Queensland Government repre-
sentative in Sydney, was a proud man last
week. He had a letter from the N. S. Wales
Broadcasting Co. sent by Mr. George H.
Boardman, of Hollywood, who said that he
had just listened in to a programme broad-
casted by the co., and, although every item
was very clearly heard, it was the singing of
Jeannette Ethelston, the Queensland lyric
soprano, which thrilled him most. “An ex-
cellent soprano,” he declared, “with a very
fine voice.”


tHIS CAft
ss:>
m
t
It
i
§
m
v&:
i
M
*V
%
m.
NOTHING so bril-
liant and revolution-
ary has yet appeared in the
field of low-priced sixes. See
it—ride in it—drive it—and
you will recognise that, in the
De Soto Six, the genius of
Chrysler surmounts price
limitations to a degree that
upsets all existing standards.
New Style
New Performance
New Elegance
New Riding Luxury
AUSTRALIAN & NEW ZEALAND
DISTRIBUTORS.
New South Wales:
Grenville Motors Ltd., Carsell House,
205-213 William St., Sydney.
Victoria:
Automobiles Proprietary Ltd., 92 Flin-
ders St., Melbourne.
Queensland:
Stradbroke Motors Ltd., Adelaide St.,
Brisbane.
South Australia:
Dominion Motors Ltd., Flinders St.,
Adelaide.
Western Australia:
Wentworth Motors Ltd., Milligan St.,
Perth.
New Zealand:
New Zealand Motors Ltd., Wellington.
DE SOTO MOTOR CORPORATION (Division of Chrysler Corporation), DETROIT, MICHIGAN.
A
m
►a;
m
m
i


The Same Products
but a New Name!
YALE Flashlights and Batteries, Radio A, B and
C Batteries, Storage and Dry Batteries will here-
after be known under the trade name BOND* This
change is made to avoid confusion with other
products carrying the name Yale.
The owners of this company gave the world the
first flashlight and have pioneered every notable im-
provement and development in the industry. Only
in BOND Electric Products will you find ALL these
outstanding improvements in flashlight and battery
construction. This leadership has necessitated the
erection of a new million dollar plant with three
times our former manufacturing capacity. Insist
upon BOND Electric Products if you want the best.
Remember that
is now called
(11l
1111111111 l
illl
yr
~.11111117
c£ l
THIS MONO
BOND
k
.NO. 102
HLECTft^
„X Q '»‘H>HAT»ON
Bond Flashlights and Batteries
Radio A, B and C Batteries
Storage and Dry Batteries
Bond Electric Corporation ( Formerly Yale Electric Corp.) Jersey City, N.J., U. S. A.
General Australasian Agents
Atkins, M acle an, Ltd.,
119 York St., Sydney
SAFETY
RAZOR
Made of a special steel with extra
keen edges, being specially suited
for stiff beards.
' KIRBY. BEARD & C? Ltd.
p-rioO’s aavaa Aaaix
ni £
KIRBY-
B E A R! D
RAZORS
give full protection without ob-
structing the cutting'edges. Easy
to clean and require no adjustment.
Kirby, Beard & Co., Ltd., Ravenhurst Works, Birming-
ham, England. Also London, Redditch and Paris.
Australian Agent: H. E. UTTLEY.
Margaret House, 282 George Street, Sydney.
dfs
GUYATTS
CHEST EXPANDING
BRACES
STAND up straight—throw
out your chest —Broaden
your shoulders. Be the
man you were meant to be.
Guyatt's Braces will keep you
upright, develop the chest
and lungs. Ladies and Gents,
Posted to any address, 10/6
Write for free surgical appliance folder.
GUYATT & CO.
Dept. B • 257 a George Street, Sydney.
df
GRADES
THERE
MANY
ARE
CRAB
BUT
CAPTAIN CRAB
SPECIALLY SELECTED
TAKES COMMAND OVER ALL
ASK YOU* GROCE* EO* Wit* RECIPCBOOK
GRASP THE SHADOW ERE THE SUBSTANCE FADE
PIECE ME TOGETHER AND YOUR FORTUNE’S MADE.
TALE OF A LUCKY BLACK CAT—in Many Parts—Part One
Vi
u ' -
z
°E L
IS IS .
o
AID AL
Wpj- *
>0
TH
DM
Th
se
o
7 an
®2 X
'l3d
r?
The Nine Lives of a Cat in 23 Pieces 1
Behold me, King of the Buck Bringers! Mind
you, I’m not an ordinary Tom Cat that stays
out all night, so my scattered parts cannot be
attributed to the careful aim of an annoyed
citizen resenting a courtship with Tabby on
the Tiles. Among my family inheritance is
a trick of being able to pull myself to pieces
at a moment’s notice, without disturbing my
genius for luck-bringing. Indeed, the person
who can put me together again has all the
luck. I have specially offered my services to
the N.S.W. Fire Brigades Art Union to test the
skill of the good people to whom I have
brought fortune and good luck for several
years.
There is money in this. In fact, there is a
fortune. All you have to do is to piece me
together so as to form a complete picture.
First send an application and enclose 5/
for a book of 6 tickets. This book
of tickets will be sent to you, together
with a leaflet containing my scattered parts,
looking just like the parts that appear in
this advertisement. You can sell or keep the
book of tickets, making a shilling on the
transaction. Or you can sell five and keep
one. The tickets are for the N.S.W. Fire
Brigades Art Union for £lO,OOO in prizes, the
first prize being a Solid Gold Helmet valued
at £3OOO, the largest prize for a shilling ever
offered in Australia. You may win this.
Now comes your next piece of good fortune.
There will be a special distribution of £5O in
prizes among those who send back the lucky
black cat pieced together correctly. The
amount will be distributed among those who
give the correct solution—First Prize £25,
Second Prize £lO, Third Prize £2, three
consolation prizes of £l, ten consolation
prizes of 10/, and 20 consolation prizes of
5/. It is yours for the glad hand.
Register your name at once. In addition, if you retain the 6th ticket, you may win
the £3OOO prize, or any of the others. For six tickets you may win prizes valued at
over £5600, including a casket of diamonds, a 'diamond tiara, and seven motor cars.
The closing date for the Lucky Black Cat Competition is Saturday, March 30, 1929.
It is the easiest piece of luck I have ever offered, and I have been in the luck
business since Noah ler me and Tabitha out of the Ark.
Address all applications, with 5/ enclosed, to J. J. Neville, Hon. Secretary, Fire
Brigades Headquarters, 213 Castlereagh-'treet, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES FIRE BRIGADES’ ART UNION
FOR HOSPITALS, AMBULANCES, AND CHARITY,
(Sanctioned by the Attorney-General)
£lO,OOO in Prizes. The most stupendous Prize List ever drawn up. Tickets: One
Shilling.
Six Tickets, 5/; Twelve Tickets, 10/; Twenty-five Tickets, £l.
A Ticket a Day Keeps Misfortune Away!
Send at once. State whether Mr.. Mrs., or Miss. Enclosed stamped envelone
for result slip. Art Union Drawn on June 1, 1929.
,1. J. NEVILLE. Hon. Secretary.
Fire Brigades Headauarters. 213 <~!astlereagh-street. Sydney. N.S.W.
If any illustration in ‘THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
•who will quote you price for tHe original*
®he Old-World
Galleries. LTD.
65 Duke Street, Grosvenor Square,
Loudon, W.l, England
(i doors from Oxford Street, near Selfridge’s).
Cables: Olgallery, Westo, London.
BUY YOUR ENGLISH ANTIQUES FROM
ENGLAND.
We arrange for boxing, consular invoices and
declaration of antiquity, freight, insurance and
delivery to your door at the very lowest
rates. Antiques admitted duty free to Australia.
m
wm
A Dining Room all furnished in guaranteed
antiques (i.e., each piece actually made over
100 years ago), for the low cost of £3l. Full
illustrated particulars in our Catalogue.
Illustrated Catalogue and Guide, sent on
receipt of 6 d. Australian stamp, contains;
(1) Complete price list; 180 photos; 60 pages.
(2) Furnishing and color schemes by Mrs.
Barrett.
(3) “Useful Household Hints,” by H. Stanley
Barrett, architect; contains “How to stain
deal floors to look like oak, and to last
20 years” ; “Best polish for old furniture
and how to make it”; “Cleaning
furniture, etc.”
(4) Old Furniture as a good Investment.
(5) Hints on buying Antiques, on Fakes and
Historical notes.
(6) List of Dates and Periods of Old Furniture.
(7) How to furnish your home in Antiques
for £lOO, giving full description of each
piece.
COUI'ON. Sydney Bulletin
I enclose Gd. Australian stamp tor above
catalogue.
NAME
ADDRESS
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In tne Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
"The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
IS EAGERLY
WAITING FOR
Wat
NEWS PICTORIAL
Soon to be published daily in a
handy, convenient size.
ALL THE NEWS!
ALL THE PICTURES!
The State’s First Morning
Pictorial.
Largely increased Sales
already assured,
arrange Contracts at
present rates.
HEAD OFFICE: REGISTER NEWS-
PAPERS, LIMITED, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative: Eric N. Birks,
Sydney. Tel. X 5187.
Melbourne Representative: G. N.
Bednall, “Argus” Building, Mel-
bourne. Tel. F 4502.
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.


m
&
kit
At the
Children’s Table
UN for the Children is
Mabel Lucie AttwelPs
gift to the Shelley tableware.
Here a milk-jugthat pretends
to be an elf, there a sugar-
basin that might be one of
Peter Pan’s mushrooms—a
laugh in every plate and the
cunningest skill in fashion-
ing ware that little spoons
and forks may pick their
food up easily.
Ask
to SEE THE
SHELLEY
LATEST
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
- China
Nursery Ware
L/ Lucie Attwell
6 Hilda Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
11l
WRITS TO :
T.W. MK ATM C CO. LTD.
OBTAINING
sdf
.Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 TASMANIA.
' In Equity.
TO all persons claiming interest in the
Estate of ARABELLA BENNETT
who is believed to have gone to Sydney
from Tasmania about 43 years ago mar-
ried there (married name unknown) and
died there about 38 years ago.
WHEREAS an originating Summons
dated the 25th day of January 1929 has
issued out of this Court for the determina-
tion of the persons entitled to the Estate
of the said Arabella Bennett deceased.
TAKE NOTICE that unless you cause an
appearance to the said Summons to be en-
tered in the Registry of the Said Court Mac-
quarie Street, Hobart on or before the first
day of March 1929 the Court will proceed to
hear the said Summons your absence not-
withstanding.
DATED this 30th day of January, 1929.
R. O. BINGHAM,
Deputy Registrar.
Personal and Missing Friends.
CIMS-—Will DOROTHEA SIMS, daugh-
ter of Edith Sims, formerly in employ
of Dorothea Ziele at Christchurch, New
Zealand, or anyone knowing her where-
abouts, please communicate with PER-
MANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W., Ltd.,
25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
O’DWYER, or DWY ER~ R f( ’ll A iTDTixiniT-
erly of the Queensland Hotel, Bourke
Street, Melbourne, and a relative of the late
John O’Farrell, formerly of St. Kilda. Will
anyone knowing his whereabouts please com-
municate with NATIONAL TRUSTEES
COMPANY, 113 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Public Notice.
LJAVE you any old books or first editions?
If so communicate with WELDON
O’BRIEN, Box 27, Benalla, Victoria.
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, I.TD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: HIT THE DECK.
ROYAL: THE WRECKER.
(Commencing Saturday).
CRITERION: THE PATSY.
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
TH EATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
1 SHOWING NIGHTLY.
A NEW SHOW EVERY WEEK.
NELLIE BIIAMLEY
COMPANY present
The highest class of play obtainable, at popular
prices.
The Royale Sjrncopatora Chase Gloom
from Dull Intervals.
I c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
* MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT SONG.
ROYAL:
MARGARET BANNERMAN in
VICTORY.
NEW COMEDY T HEAT RE,
MELBOURNE.
RUTH NUGENT and ALLAN BUNCE in
PIGS.
K. 1 NG S THEATRE » MELBOURNE.
LEON GORDON in
WHITE CARGO.
HOYTS DE LUXE THEATRE,
171 MELBOURNE.
JETTA GOOGAL in'
THE FORBIDDEN WOMAN.
ALSO
JOBYNA RALSTON in
A RACING ROMEO.
Wanted.
WANTED,. a mate to make trip through
America for experience. Technical
graduate in engineering or mining preferred
June, 1929. Reply “25,” this office.
GROCERS.
yilE “EARL” bacon cutters, “made
in Australia,’’ are always at your service—made
in five models, prices £8 to £3B, cash or terms.
Write for illustrated catalogue.
HUMPHREY EARL, LTD.,
Manufacturers,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
i.
sd
Handsome Men Have
Well-groomed Hair
“Oh! I thought you were much older than that.
I suppose your hair gives that impression.” Not
very tactful, but that’s how women think of a man
whose hair is thin or grey. Keep your hair young
and you are young. Use “Vi-Glo” and watch results !
See it grow new hair in quick time; see the rich
color come back; the grey tinges go! Watch the
ladies! You’ll know by that how successful “Vi-
Glo” is. Don’t regard “Vi-Glo” as a hair wash; it’s
a scientific scalp-invigorator. Costs only 3/- for
the complete outfit at any chemist’s; or you can get
it by post for 3/4 from Vi-Glorient Company, Kembla
Building, Sydney. Money back if not surprised and
delighted with the quick and genuine results.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
. (Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.) v
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Restful, quiet and cool—open to the Summer Sea Breezes. Delightfully situated with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre Paths. Incomparable for comfort—Excellent Cuisine and Service.
Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Summer Tariff from 5 guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines). Management M. E. BURROWS,
fsd
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for two
years free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
.POST FREE ,
k A
THE P
m
The Little Sisters
Lennon's hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
For the second summer meeting of the
Q.T.C. at Ascot the grass was green, and so
were some of the frocks. Mrs. J. J. Buchanan
was one of those who had touches of green
with her black mariette. Mrs. J. T. Bell
had bird-of-paradise plumes in her brown
hat, worn with a cafe-cm-lait frock. Mrs.
Cecil Palmer was a study in mastic, witli
touches of amber and biscuit. Mrs. Cullen
had an Oriental figured marocain with a black
cloche and red rose; almond-green trimmed
Mrs. Isaac Moore’s hat, and her gown was
black with coin spots; Olga Barnes wore
green Shantung; Eileen Morgan, ivory and
rose; Elfrida Walsh, navy and rose, with a
blue hat; Sybil Lucas, lupin-blue; Mrs.
Errol Campbell, ivory and rose.
At St. Andrew’s Kirk Robert George
Taylor, of Auckland Downs (N.Q.), son of
the late Mr.
and Mrs. John
Taylor, of
Sydney, and
formerly o f
A u c k 1 a n d
(M.L.), was
marr i e d to
M o n a Bea-
trice, daughter
of the late H.
11. Barton and
of Mrs. Bar-
ton, Brisbane.
Daisies and
gerberas deco-
rated the
church. The
bride, pictured
here by a
Dateley cam-
era, was in
cream and
gold brocade,
a Limerick
lace veil and orange blossoms. Frangipanni,
white water-lilies, stephanotis and gladioli
made the bridal bouquet. Mona McDougall,
in a Kate Greenaway frock of gold mariette,
■with a gold poke bonnet, and Evelyn Mayne,
of Roma, in gold taffetas, with a droop hat
of ruffled tulle, ’maided. They carried
gladioli and yellow roses. The Bellevue,
dressed up in green bowls of tawny African
daisies, saw the feasting.
Overflow station at Beaudesert was the
scene of a pretty wedding, when Robert, son
of the Robert Harrisons, of Greenslopcs,
Brisbane, was married to the Edgar Joyces’
daughter Sheila. The bride was in white
ninon, with long tulle veil and orange blos-
soms. Shevaureen, Molly and Doreen Joyce,
in white organdie with short tulle veils, were
the maids. The wedding feast was set under
the jacaranda-tree on the lawn, where were
miniature pools of blue water-lilies.
Mrs. T. J. Ryan is off to Melbourne to live.
Daughter Jill and son Jack are being
educated in the city by the Yarra, Jill at
Mandeville, and Jack at Xavier’s.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
During the Canberra’s visit numerous
entertainments were arranged for her offi-
cers and men. The ship was opened to the
public for one afternoon, and Captain
Massey gave several little lunch teas and
a big afternoon party. For this last the
quarter-deck was swathed in bunting to keep
out the strong breeze. Tea was served on
deck, drinks at a buffet in the wardroom, and
the band syncopated beautifully for dancers
keen enough to drag themselves away from.
an inspection of the wonders of the ship.
Among the guests were Colonel and Mrs.
Wieck, Dr. and Mrs. White, Captain and
Mrs. Nicholas, Mr. and Mrs. Robertson-
Smith, Lieut. and Mrs. Hatton, Fremantle’s
Mayor Gibson, his wife and daughter, and
Major and Mrs. Kelly.
The Tropical Troubadours’ Band from the
Canberra was sufficient inducement to fill
Temple Court for a cabaret show to help the
Parkerville Home. Workers on the com-
mittee included Mrs. Victor Harwood, Mrs.
Daw, Miss Gloster, Mr. and Mrs. Sheffield
and Miss Clarke. Officers from the Can-
berra, headed by Captain Massey, were
among the dancers. Some other merry-
makers were Mrs. de Pledge and her daugh-
ter, Mrs. Frank Lefroy, Mary Craven, Joy
Lathlain, Mrs. George Taylor and Gwen
Bray.
The B. L. Clarksons, of Toodyay, passed
daughter Barbara into the safe keeping of
Norman Roe at Northam. A beautiful old
Limerick lace veil fell over the wedding gown
of platinum beads sprinkled upon white georg-
ette. Small Colin Drake-Brockman gave
a watchful eye to the train, and bride’s
sister Betty and cousin Judy Clarkson
’maided in white crepe romaine and hats of
delphinium-blue. There was a great crowd
of relatives and friends.
When Nell Anketell plighted her troth
with Alan Stubbs in the lofty quiet, of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, she chose tiers of soft
cream lace and a hat of Swiss straw. Olga
Ainslie was the only attendant, in pink
taffetas and a pink Baku hat. Intimate
friends and relatives toasted tin? couple after-
wards at Mrs. Anketell’s home in South
Perth.
The Harry de Castillas issued informal in-
vitations for the marriage of their daughter
Margot to Henry Moseley, and about 200
friends followed from St. Mary's to the home
of the bride’s sister, Mrs. King Atkins, for
the congratulatory banquet. The bridal rai-
ment was of ivory georgette ornamented with
rhinestone-centred flowers of white taffeta
and a mist-like veil of tulle. Maida Sharkey
and bride’s sister Catriona attended, in white
taffetas draped in panels of white georgette,
and wore gold lame bandeaux. A contrast
to the all-white effect were the cherry-colored
shoes and red rosebud posies of small train-
bearers Anne Jenkins and Susette Atkins.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
We have plunged from summer to winter,
and at tennis and cricket sunshades give
way to furs and the odor of mothballs
pervades the air. We’ve had an embarrass-
ment of entertainment: boats have raced
at Mannum; aeroplanes at Parafield, and
horses at Victoria Park, and there have been
tennis and cricket at the Oval. With the
promise of Test in the immediate future,
femininity mostly decided in favor of tennis.
Lady Hore-Ruthven was there to watch the
finals and present the trophies. The Gover-
nor watched the cricket for a time and
found most of the Supreme Court and Mel-
bourne’s Chief Justice had backed the Same
fancy. The A. J. Robertses gave a dance at
the courts (tennjs, not law) for players and
other enthusiasts, and there was a dinner
at the Grosvenor where Norman Brookes
(his wife was one of the smartest figures at
the Roberts dance) was chief speaker and
had the chair of honor. The younger set
plumped for Parafield, where two of their
number, Norman Birks and Captain Gros-
venor, upheld the honor of the Moth. At the
races trucking fixed the time of arrival —furs
on early-comers and silks and georgettes on the
tardy. Miss Hall, daughter of the chairman,
was hostess at lunch and afternoon tea, her
attire being one of the many smart ex-
positions of navy blue seen on the lawn.
The Mocatta-Gault wedding was at Belair
—she a daughter of the late Dr. A. 11.
and Mi’s. Gault and herself a medico (she
was for a time medical superintendent at the
Children’s Hospital), and he a son of G.
Mocatta, of Sydney, and a brother of one
of our most popular women doctors. Mrs.
Gault hostessed a tea at the Botanic Park
a few days before, where the guests included
some sisters from the Children’s Hospital.
Two doctors are bringing brides from Mel-
bourne —Gordon Wearing Smith, who mar-
ried Dorothea Harrison, of Heidelberg, and
Donald Dowling, whose bride is Molly,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. George Rees, of
Malvern. The weddings were on consecutive
days, and the bridegroom of the first, Dr.
Smith, was best man at the second.
We now have a new evening amusement
—running up into the hills close by “to see
the lights.” Five or six miles east or south
will take one to a look-out giving a view
of the plain, gleaming with electric points
for an area of perhaps 10 miles by 8. The
Tourist Bureau is running evening excur-
sions to the Belair hill.
Another home-comer is Daisy Curtis, of
the women-police, fresh from a world-tour
of investigation of social problems.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The Lyceum Club opened its portals in
welcome to three visitors last week—the
McCallum and Cresswell ladies and Mrs.
Forder. The last-named is an enthusiastic
leader of Girl Guides in Dorsetshire (Eng-
land) and a Victoria Leaguer. President
Mrs. Henry Dobson received the guests, and
Mrs. Stourton presented them with little
handpainted souvenirs of Tasmania. Mrs.
Blane sang and Margaret Fletcher recited.
The quiet little village of Campbell Town
buzzed with excitement on the occasion of
the wedding of Allan, the Eustace Camerons’
eldest son to Zeerust, the T. W. 11. Clarkes'
handsome daughter. Quaint old St. Luke’s had
been beautifully decorated by the bride’s
friends with pink and white gladioli and
dahlias. The bridal dress was of heavy ivory
satin, made with long sleeves and a broad
band of diamente, which formed a V and
hung from the waistline with heavily em-
broidered ends. The hem of the dress was
bordered with diamente, and the long train
of satin was lined with georgette and en-
crusted with diamente and pearl trimming.
The lace veil was lent by Mrs. Philip Rus-
sell, Carngham, Victoria, and was worn
under a wreath of orange blossom and white
heather. The four ’maids, Jean Lawrence,
Sybil Lyolis, Alison Taylor and Cynthia
Cameron, were each .in a different pastel
shade of chiffon, with summerweiglit felt
hats and shoes to match, the frocks ankle
length at the back and short in front, very
full, and with long waistlines defined by
pearl buckles in varying shades to tone with
the attire. Guests from the mainland and
all parts of the island were present.
Here is a Burgess Watt picture of Doreen
Bidencope, one of the most popular of
Hobart’s young singers. She was a pupil
of Madam
Lucy Atkins
in Hobart,
and of Mdme.
Go o s sens at
Sydney’s Uni.
0 o n. She
studied ha r-
mony under G.
A. Jackson for
her L.A.B.
ticket, and has
sung several
times with the
Choral Society
under his
baton. Inci-
dentally, the
Bide ncopes
were well
established in
this city when
folk called it
Hobart Town.
Artists Daryl Lindsay and George Bell
have been touring Tassy again in search of
material for their palettes and brushes. They
were much delighted with the old houses
which are. to be seen tucked away in some
of the older suburbs, where seme worthy
specimens of Georgian domestic architecture,
with the most graceful of fanlights, are to
be found. In the old faded days we had a
prettier taste in houses, and the scent of
lavender still lingers round the finest of
them.


Not mere opinion -
but the CONSIDERED
JUDGMENT of the
majority
XI
m
m-
mmm ,v
'A-wVi' ‘th 11 !:
1
sssii
m ii «• ■.'"
-.■■
SHF
.
ffSl^lllSMliiiiilllSil
J ■ y/'" ,
■ - ; i- ; *
,
mmm
WMmiiiim
mmmm
iliiiipiiiillli
111
i*iiiii!iii
■
-a
s asss
■■*■'■■
i ■.
m*
• -s
-■
***
arc;
9RE
- - —-.V-
-■
KS
::
mm
■
;^fe
&
Sgrssf-M
Mm?w~
ig
;
ja«
JAi*
uu
s*isSE
-
s
ia§*
li
sr;;
.:
.
$
-
;
n
K
P
iff
:: :
■ I
Republic Trucks are the finest, most efficient, most
dependable and most economical that it is possible for
engineering skill and vast financial resources to
produce. That is a bold statement which we are ready
to prove by demonstration, competitive or otherwise.
In design and manufacture they are absolutely
unmatched, simply because Republic’s experience in
the truck field has had greater scope than that of any
other truck manufacturer. There are more Republics
in. use to-day than those of any other exclusive truck
manufacturer. Republic is not just a one-year or two-
year truck.
Republic leadership will be stronger than ever as a
consequence of an even wider margin of superiority
unquestionably assured by scores of vital improve-
ments carefully developed. Republic performance
will be an enviable standard to strive for in the future
as it always has been in the past.
New South Wales:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney.
Queensland:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
Victoria:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne
South Australia:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
805 Hay Street, Perth.
Factory Distributors:
W. A. CROWLE, LTD., Crowle House, 105 York St., Sydney.
New Zealand:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets,
Wellington.


K44a
* a
M®ME
JVcSTKUBJZEO
BEEtfOKt)
AUSTRALIAN
■//.■■■■■/ W y v^/^feA/^
sdexjzGr&o /r 0« ouXZs rv- u
&* / £*CS£S/7~y~ ' .
<“»/sr C; 1 '&*&>&}
NO RIND—NO WASTE
ABSOLUTELY CLEAN
Sold in \lb. cartons, as illustrated, and by weight by all grocers.
r
L
s
\
Willyou be alive
five years from now/
The days pass on! How is your health? Have
you sufficient good red blood to keep the ever-
watchful destroyers —disease and sickness —at
bay? Directly the blood weakens in come the
germs, breeding in millions. To further harass
the system poisonous wastes that should be regu-
larly removed accumulate. Then comes the battle
of life and death and even if your blood finally
saves your life, you may never regain perfect
healthy and prepared! Keep your blood
stream adequate and normal with Kama Vita Liver
extract. Don’t wait for the attack; get your blood
right now, and keep it right. One jar of Kama
Vita will convince you, as it has convinced tore-
most Doctors and all leading hospitals.
SEND TO-DAY
FOR FREE
LITERATURE.
Liver Extract
On sale at all Chemists, 8/- per
4oz. jar, or direct from us at 8/9,
post free, if not obtainable locally.
KARNA VITA COMPANY
226 a George Street, Sydney
THE MASTER OF THE ATLAS.
By J.H.M. ABBOTT.
disease being contagious in its kind, the in-
fection extended, from the causes above
recited, and the malady became almost gen-
eral.
“. . . .On the upper deck the spars were
raised three or four feet high on each side
in the waist, and the longboat placed in the
centre; the main hatchway was stowed full
of casks, that not a breath of air could pass
down into the prisons, and the stantions of
the after hatchway were boarded up so close
that it was impossible that a breath of air
could pass that way.
“The afflictions of these ill-fated beings
(the convicts) did not cease here. The
water daily issued, and called three pints,
did not exceed a beer quart (infinitely too
little for men on a constant salt regimen),
and that the thirst and hunger they endured
might bear some proportion to each other,
they were defrauded of a great part of their
ration of provisions; all the sick were con-
fined to what they termed a vegetable diet,
which consisted of pease, barley, rice and
oatmeal: their animal food entirely withheld,
altho’ the full ration is charged to Govern-
ment.
“It was no uncommon spectacle to behold
these suffering people laboring under the
extraordinary incumbrance of two pairs of
heavy irons on their legs and one round the
neck, with a large padlock us an appendage
that weighed at least a pound and a half.
“To conclude, should the flagitious con-
duct of Mr. Brooks in the various instances
here mentioned, and that can be further
enumerated, incline his Majesty’s Ministers
to consider such a man deserving the censure
of the laws he has so basely violated, and,
further, should they deem my return to
Europe necessary on the occasion, I have
only to declare my readiness to obey their
intimation to such an effect, it being a cause
of humanity and justice. I should feel
ON the 7th of July, 1802, a very unhappy
ship dropped anchor in Sydney Cove.
She had sailed from Cork on the
28th of November previous with convicts
and passengers, and her seven months’
voyage is a long record of sickness, misery,
roguery, mutiny and private quarrels, such
as must have made it very memorable indeed
to all who shared in it.
There were seventy sick aboard when she
arrived at Rio on the 30th of January, and
fifteen prisoners and a soldier had died dur-
ing the passage from Ireland to Brazil. The
run across to the Cape of Good I lope—
which was reached on the 12th of April—was
marked by an abortive mutiny and the death
of six prisoners, another soldier and the
wife of the sergeant of the military guard.
The floating horror left the Cape a week
later, and during a very rough-weather pas-
sage to Sydney forty-three male prisoners and
one female died of scurvy and dysentery.
Upon her arrival twenty others were so ill
that they could not be landed for some time.
On the 3rd of August, 1802, Governor
King wrote from the Ilawkesbury a very
plain, and even rud,e, letter to the master
of the ship, Captain Richard Brooks, of
which the following is an extract:—
“You express your sorrow ‘that the per-
sonal errors imputed to you should prejudice
the interests of your owners, who, you say
(and I know), are merchants of the highest
respectability, and for whom you act merely
as an agent’....l am sure their humanity
would have recoiled with horror at the
dreadful mortality that prevailed on your
voyage, and the inhuman situation of a great
part of the dying remains of your cargo
when the Atlas arrived here, and I have
no hesitation in declaring my belief that
much of these miseries was owing to your
deviation from the charter party, which so
amply provided for the health and comfort
of the unfortunate creatures committed to
your charge. ... I still disbelieve that either
the Transport Board or your owners sanc-
tioned such a quantity of spirits and private
trade being put on hoard, to the manifest
injury of the prisoners and the public wel-
fare.”
But there is another letter extant—-from
Surgeon Thomas Jamison to Lord Hobart,
Secretary of State for the Colonies, which
throws a lurid light upon the voyage. Dr.
Jamison, who had been granted a passage
on the Atlas, had had frequent disputes with
Captain Brooks—in some of which the re-
doubtable Sir Henry Brown Hayes, later of
Vaucluse, was concerned —and might be_ sus-
pected of prejudice against that enterprising
mariner were it not for the fact that his
statements are pretty fully borne out by
other evidence. In consequence of these
disputes, and the general unpleasantness of
his position on the Atlas, he left the ship
at Rio and came on to Sydney by another
vessel, whence he posted his complaints to
Lord Hobart under date of November 8,
1802:
“. ... The principal matter of complaint I
have against Mr. Rich’d Brooks, master of
the Atlas, is that he shipped on board said
vessel under his command a far greater quan-
tity of goods and merchandise for his own
private trade than could be possibly war-
ranted by the usage of the service he was
engaged in. By such conduct the ship was
so deeply laden that it became necessary to
keep the air scuttles in general closed, and
the deadlights frequently shut in.
“From the above circumstances, and the
humidity created by the confined state of 'the
convicts, the air became noxious to such a
degree as to extinguish the candles burning
in the cabin. The just observation that foul
air and filth generate disease was verified
in the Atlas. A dangerous fever and dysen-
tery appeared, to which numbers fell vic-
tims ; nor were the necessary means adopted
to check the progress of this destroying
malady ; on the contrary, one-half the hospital
was occupied as a sailroonq and by this
arrangement the sick were some of them
obliged to sleep in the prison with other
nrisoners who were in health. The prevailing
“He leaned forward eagerly across the table and laid q horny hand on Brooks’s
arm. ‘l’ve got a hidea,’ he whispered hoarsely.’”
happy to bear an unerring testimony to
the truth of what is here asserted.”
After a brief study of these testimonials
to the character of Captain Richard Brooks,
we may proceed to make his persona!
acquaintance.
* * * *
The master of the Atlas sat in the kitchen
of Mr. Jimmy Brogan’s sly-grog establish-
ment in Sergeant-Major’s Row, and con-
versed upon affairs with that ornament of
early Sydney.
Mr. Brogan was not a gentleman of pre-
possessing appearance. His face was deeply
pitted with the marks of small-pox, and was
further disfigured by the loss of the tip of
his nose, which had been removed by a cut-
lass in the hand of a Preventive officer on
the occasion which resulted in his coming
as a guest of King George the Third to
New South Wales, during the first year of
Governor Hunter’s administration in 1795.
It was a little affair connected with the
clandestine importation of French brandy
into England, near St. Margaret’s Bay, in
Kent, and had earned for him a sentence
of seven years’ transportation over sea.
Previous to his adopting the smuggling
profession as a means of livelihood he had
been in the Guinea slave trade, and had made
two voyages out of Liverpool as boatswain
to Captain Brooks, in the altogether inaptly-
named brig Brotherly Love. The possession
of qualities after his own heart had much
endeared him to Captain Brooks, and when
that worthy mariner found himself in Syd-
ney at the end of the remarkable voyage
chronicled hy Dr. Jamison, he derived much
consolation, in face of the odium which
he seemed to have incurred with the autho-
rities, from the sympathetic conversation of
his late petty-offleer. By .1802 the latter
had become “free by servitude,” and had
settled down in Sydney with the intention
of earning a living in tliq best, or the worst,
way he might.
His establishment in Sergeant-Major’s Row
—which became part of George-street in
Macquarie’s time—was a brothel, a grog-
shanty, a depot for stolen goods, an agency
for tlu> escape of convicts from the colony,
and a house of call for the worst elements
of the Sydney society of the period. It was
a frowsy, foul and verminous little building
of four rooms under a thatched roof, and
beneath it had been excavated, secretly, dur-
ing Mr. Brogan’s ownership, a very' exten-
sive cellar, which was used as occasion
demanded for a variety of purposes, but
chiefly for the concealment of such goods
and chattels as from time to time the citi-
zens of Sydney, the Commissariat Stores and
ships visiting the port missed from their
rightful possession. For two years, during
his ticket-of-leave period, its proprietor had
made industrious use of it on the lines indi-
cated above, and now, in addition to being
a free citizen of the territory, he was be-
come a person of some substance and com-
parative wealth.
He was also the owner of a 10-ton cutter
which traded to the Hawkesbury under the
command of one Timber-toe Jack, a seaman
with a wooden leg, one eye, a steel hook in
place of his right hand, and qualities of mind
and heart that eminently fitted him for his
present occupation—mainly the conveyance
to Sydney of quantities of illicit and terrific
alcohol, distilled near Cattai Creek in a
branch establishment of his owner’s busi-
ness. This morning he was expressing to
Captain Brooks the indignation he felt him-
self possessed of at the treatment to which
the former had been subjected. He spoke
with a curiously disagreeable snuffle owing
to the nasal disfigurement with which he
had been afflicted eight years before.
“Well, now, Cap’n. th’ way I looks at
it’s like this. ’Ow in th’ name o’ Gawd
can Cap’n King bring ’isself to write like
’e does in thish yer letter ’c’s sent ye?
D —n ’is soul, ’e ought to know better!
’E's a sailorman, ain’t ’e? ’E ought to
know wot ’ard times pore sailormen’s got
to put up wiv—even if ’e’s. on’y bin to
sea in th’ King’s ships. If ’e’d bin a
sojer, like them dam’ swine Major Grose
an’ Colonel Paterson, a cove might ha’ looked
for summat like this. Read me out that
last bit again, .Cap’n. Rlind me, it seems
a’most too onnatral to be true! Ret’s ’ave
it again, sir—that about th’ grog not bein’
landed.”
With a bitter curse Captain Brooks picked
up a sheet of paper from the greasy table
on either side of which they were seated.
“Sink him in Hell, Jimmy, ’tis too bad,
as you say. Here it is again.”
He read aloud to his companion the con-
cluding paragraph of the Governor’s letter
of August 3, part of which has been
quoted :
“You say ‘that you look up to my protec-
tion in a concern of so much magnitude, and
request my permission to dispose of your
spirits and porter,’ in reply to which I must
remark that had you consulted your owners
or your own interest, you would not have
brought any, particularly after the receipt
of Captain Rains’s letter; but as you have
judged proper to bring such a quantity of
spirits, I do not feel myself justified, under
every circumstance, to grant any permit
whatever, except for the porter, nor shall a
drop of the spirits you have brought be
landed in this colony, to prevent the inhabi-
tants being beggared thereby; and I am the
more particular in this refusal, as permits
have just been given for landing what I deem
a sufficient quantity for the present use of the
inhabitants.”
“And he calls himself a English-
man!” commented Captain Brooks dis-
gustedly as he folded the letter up and put
it in his pocket.
Mr. Brogan expressed his sympathy with
the reflection upon the Governor by spitting
on the floor and banging the table with
his fist.
“ ’E ain’t no better nor a furrmer!
Tell me, Cap’n, d’ye know who he give leave
to for to land wot ’e calls a sufficient lot
for th’ present use o’ th’ in’abitants?”
“Why, damme, .Timmy, ye’d scarce credit
it! To that snufflebustin’ son of a gun
Ezekiel Smith, the skipper o’ that Yankee
brig the Fanny; 2700 gallons lie’s let him
land —mostly New England and West
Indian rum, and a couple o’ pipes of brandy
for the officers. Can ye beat that? Why,
’tis but a few years since them Amerikys was
nothing but blasted rebels —same as those
Irish gave mo so much trouble on th’ v’yage
out.” . „ , ,
“Cap’n King’s a traitor,” observed
the sympathetic Jimmy indignantly. “'E
ought to be court-martialled for ’igh treason.
That’s wot ’e ought. But wot are ye a-goin’
to do about it, Cap’n? Ye’re not th’ man,
if I knows ye, to suffer sich onjustice lyin’
down. Not for all th’ Gov’nors any-
w’eres!” He leaned forward eagerly across
the table and laid a horny hand on Brooks's
arm. “I’ve got a hidea,” he whispered
hoarsely.
“What th’ dpvil can I do? I’ll have to
take th’ bulk of it away, I suppose. He’s
let me supply 800 gallons to th’ Frenchman
Commodore Baudin —but I’ve got as much,
an’ more, aboard the Atlas. I suppose I’ll
have to carry it awmy.”
“No, damme, ye won’t,” whispered Mr.
Brogan. “Not a bit of it ye won’t!”
“How d’ye mean icon’t?” grunted Brooks
scowlingly.
“Listen ’ere, Cap’n. Ye can carry it out
o’ Port Jackson when ye sail —all c’rect an’
proper. But it needn’t leave Noo South
Wales —no. it needn’t. Wot about my cutter,
th’ Polly Brogan? I arsk ye that.”
“How? What d’ye mean, Jimmy?”
“Just this ’ere. W’on you sails, you
stands out to sea till dark. Then you stands
back again, an’—haccidental like —falls in
wi’ th’ cutter, say, off Cabbage Tree Bay, on
’er way to Sydney from th’ Oxberry. She
lands it in Manly Cove, a-comin’ through
th’ ’Eads artcr dark. I’ll ha’ some coveys
down there can shift it acrost to Middle
’Arbor, w’ere it can be ’id safely. I can
sell it gradual like—on commission, Cap’n.
I’ll engage I get rid of it all under a twel’-
month. What d’ye say to that now?”
Captain Brooks stared at his friend for a
little while before a grin of cunning enlighten-
ment came into his ugly face.
He lifted bis glass and drank to Mr.
Brogan.
“By God, Jimmy,” he said with appre-
ciation, “ye’re a wonder, a wonder!”
* * * *
All night long the nor’-easter had blown
gently down the coast, and when the horizon
seaward was a sharply-defined, grey-blue line
of darkness against the yellowing and red-
dening sky of a clear summer’s morning, his
Majesty’s colonial schooner Cumberland, 26
tons —afterwards to become famous as the
(Continued on page 53.)


BRITISH
s
ENGINES
Old Listers Never Die
they simply "keep on keeping on.”
What others think
of LISTER Engines
Mr. A. J. Holt, of Zara, via Murwillumbah,
writes:—“The Lister Engine I bought from
you 1 7 or 18 years ago has been working
every day, has had nothing done to her,
and has never stopped. I have now put
spare parts into her, and she seems to have
got a little more power.”
Mr. James F. Anderson, Central Tilba,
wrote on 21st July, 1928:—“My 4-h.p-
Lister Engine is still going strong, after
being in use 15 years, and the only part
to be renewed, up to the present, has been
the hose connection to the water tank.”
Mr. W. B. Crosbie, of Bucki, Henty,
writes:—“My Lister Engine is running
splendidly now. Have had it since 1915,
and this is the first replacement of any
kind except, of course, spark plugs. The
Lister is a grand engine for shearing
machines.”
Mr. G. D. Shipton, Bunberra, Belong,
wrote on 29th July, 1925:—“Just a line
in reference to Lister Engine I purchased
from you five years ago. I have run her
ever since without the slightest hitch. I
never even cleaned the sparking plug since
I got it until a few days ago, and I have
never had a bolt or a screw out of it, so
this will give you some idea how well thi3
engine has served me. I have chaffed
hundreds of tons of corn, planter and
hay without a break. I am quite sure this
must speak volumes for the Lister Engine.”
NO one ever yet saw a worn-out Lister engine. Not
in Australia, anyway, for the Lister has only
been here 20 years.
Once a Lister is installed on the job it runs smoothly
and efficiently for year after year without requiring
any attention except refilling fuel tanks, oiling, and
occasionally grinding in the valves. We have letters
from owners who have worked their Lister engines
every day for up to 1 8 years without repairs, replace-
ments, or any other mechanical attention. These
engines are still giving faithful service—running all
night if necessary without attention —and show no
sign of needing any assistance on the job. A few
spare parts would make them virtually new engines.
Is it any wonder that the British Lister Engines are
world-famous? Give us your address and we will
send you interesting particulars of a Lister engine that
will handle your power problems with efficiency and
economy.
isren
Saltish Bu\vs
ra
; i m
FARM ENGINES
4i, 62, 8, 10 and 14 B.H.P.
Also the Lister Junior in I£, 2£ f 3| B.H.P.
VICTORIA Mitchell & Co. Pty., Ltd., West Footscray
N.S.W Dangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd., Young Street, Sydney
QUEENSLAND. . Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd., Eagle St., Brisbane
SOUTH AUS. . . Horwood, Bagshaw, Ltd., Mile End, Adelaide
WEST AUSTRALIA .... Malloch Bros., William Street, Perth
PATON.


fsd
uhe hand that holds
the" VENUS”
■ plans the World
The first rough suggestion—the skilful
and accurate working out, the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive effort, call for the use of VENUS
PENCILS. Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the design of a simple household
article, the pencil is the first requirement: the
VENUS the first pencil.
17Blacklead Degrees 68-9 H sd. each -4/9 per dozen. Super Copying (Medium & Hard) 6d.
each - 5/9 per dozen. Venus Copying (Medium & Hard) 4d. each - 3/9 per dozen.
MAGNAVCX
DYNAMIC
/PE4KEE
For A. C. and Battery Sets
New degrees of beauty in music. As differ,
ent as the new phonographs are from the
old. Reproduces all notes as broadcast
including the low notes of the drums,
which makes dancing easier. A power
tube and a dynamic power speaker
combined will give you a faithful
reproduction of every sound,
with volume. A minute’s dem-
onstration proves it. ❖ ❖ ♦> $
Beverly Model
Finished in light mahogany
A.C £l3/15/-
A Battery .... £ll
Junior Model for
Battery or D.C.,
£lO.
Dynamic Unit
Pat it in your present cabinet
A.C £lO/10/-
A Battery . £7/15/-
BE SURE TO
SEE THEM
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL RADIO
DEALERS
Australian Patent No. 7226.
CPARKLING
° Health
jroyn Cream ojlfeast
See, when you take Cream of Yeast, a new interest
in'•life; real “pep” energy for the day’s work;
the liking for play and the zest for playing -in
short —Sparkling Health!
Cream of Yeast is a highly efficient compound of concen-
trated yeast and medicinal agents of known and accepted
value. It gives prompt benefit with an altogether unusual
degree of certainty.
Take Cream oj Yeast for Headaches, Dizziness, Sour
Stomach, “Nerves,” Depression, Tired Feeling, Sleep-
lessness, many forms of Aches and Pains, Skin
Troubles, After-effects of Alcohol or Tobacco.
A TYPICAL LETTER OF PRAISE.
Writing from Byron Bay, Mr. I. Ilalcrom says: “I had a
very bad attack of Blood Pressure about 18 months ago
and was very ill indeed. After I recovered someivhat,
my nerves were shattered and I could not sleep. Ihen
1 got Neuritis, and a friend advised me to try Cream
of Yeast. I can now sleep well and am improved
in every way.”
Famous people rely on Cream of
Yeast; all chemists and stores sell it:
24 Tablets, 1/11; 48 Tablets, 3/6;
125 Tablets, 5/9.
m
“Yeast W
is Life!” i
m
m
Pep
m.
up with
CREAMyYEAST
vessel that bore Captain Matthew Flinders
to "his long captivity in the Isle of France—
was abreast of Long Reef on a voyage from
the Hunter River to Sydney carrying his
Excellency the Governor back to headquarters
after a visit of inspection to the coalmines.
Mr Charles Robbins, master’s mate of
H M S Buffalo, acting as a lieutenant of his
Majesty’s armed Colonial Marine, was pacing
her small poop, smoking a pipe of tobacco
in the cool freshness of the morning, when
he was hailed by the lookout for’ard, who
conveyed to him the intimation that a ship
was anchored inside Cabbage Tree Head
with a smaller craft alongside of her.
(Not a very great number of those who
nowadays disport themselves in the surf on
the ocean beach at Manly are aware that
they are bathing in the waters of Cabbage
Tree Bay Cabbage Tree Head is the little
bluff that forms the northern extremity of
the Fairy Bower.) .
Mr. Robbins went into the bows to see
for himself. Then he climbed into the rig-
ging and through his telescope scanned the
vessel lying at this unusual anchorage.
Coming aft again, he took the wheel him-
self, and' sent the man lie relieved below to
awaken the Governor and request him to
come on deck. So one hour later we find
his Excellency Captain Philip Gidley King
standing on the quarter-deck of the trans-
port Atlas angrily demanding explanations
as to how the—what the—why the—from
her somewhat confused and evasive master,
Mr. Richard Brooks.
“These casks on deck,” demanded the
Governor —“what do they contain?”
.Captain Brooks shifted his gaze from his
Excellency’s red and choleric countenance
to the two rows of puncheons that stood in
the waist of the ship on the port side, over
which dangled hoisting tackle reeved through
a block at the end of the main-yard. Imme-
diately below the yard’s extremity the cutter
Polly Brogan was made fast alongside the
Atlas.
With a look that was intended to convey
an impression of injured innocence, but
which really registered duplicity and guilt,
he stammered a reply.
“Well, sir—well, y’r Excellency, I think
and believe there’s rum and brandy in ’em.”
“You think and believe— don’t you know
what they contain?”
“Well, sir—well, yes. There is rum and
brandy in ’em —mostly Jamaica rum, y’r
Excellency.”
“Whose is this craft alongside—to whom
does she belong?”
“To Mr. James Brogan, y’r Excellency.
“Where is he?”
“He’s alongside—in the cutter, sir.”
“Let him come aboard immediately. Have
him brought here at once, Mr. Robbins.”
In a brief space of time the hideous and
scarred countenance of the cutter’s owner
also ornamented the quarter-deck of the
Atlas. The Governor glared at him angrily
and distastefully.
“Ha, sir—ha ! I know you—and I know
no good of you. What the devil are you
doing here?”
Mr. Brogan was obviously embarrassed.
“Come, sir—what is your cutter doing
here? I insist upon an answer. At once,
sir—at once!”
“If y’r Hex’lenzy pleases —nothink, sir.
I was on me way to Sydney from th’ Oxberry
w’en I seed this ’ere ship a-lyin’ in Cabbage
Tree Bay last night, an’ I come alongside
of ’er for to send word o’ me ’ealth to friends
at ’ome by Cap’n Brooks. I knowed th’
cap’n afore, sir—used to sail wi’ ’im in th’
Guinea trade. Jest a friendly wisit like,
y’r Hex’lenzy.”
“Humph!” grunted King. “I don t be-
lieve either of you. ’Tis my belief you are
a pair of damned liars. What do you think,
Mr. Robbins?”
“I quite agree with your Excellency,
grinned the commander of the Cumberland.
“Now, sir,” raged the Governor, “I know
what you were at. I had refused you per-
mission to land the cargo of spirits which
you had so illegally brought to New South
Wales in your recent disastrous voyage—
and you were about to land it, contrary to
my orders. This man Brogan was to carry
out the work with his cutter. I know his
reputation well. That is it. Come now,
sir—have the grace to confess that this is
what you were about to do. The thing is
too obvious. What have you to say?”
Circumstances, Captain Brooks could not
but admit to himself, were greatly against
him. It would seem that he had been caught
red-handed by the very Autocrat of Aus-
tralia himself in flagrant defiance of his
autocracy. He knew that penalties, heavy
and severe, would be his portion if he had
no sufficient answer to the Governor’s accu-
sation. He was almost in despair, when a
sudden inspiration came to him.
“Y’r Excellency,” te said humbly, “ ’twas
far from my thoughts to disobey your com-
mands consarning the spirits. But they
were badly stowed in the ’tween decks, and
I put back here laest night in order to re-stow
them in the hold. In the middle watch this
man Brogan came alongside and requested
me to carry away a couple of convicts who
wished to escape from the colony. Of course,
I refused—l wouldn’t be a party to such a
transaction. But he wouldn’t take ‘no’ for
an answer, and remained here all night
a-seeking to persuade me. I had just ordered
him to be off when your Excellency boarded
me. That is the truth, y’r Excellency—so
help me God!”
The Governor glared at the amazed Mr.
Brogan, who visibly wilted under this accu-
sation. Guilt was stamped all over him.
He. was dumbfounded, flabbergasted, appalled
by the treachery of his old friend.
“Hey, sir—hey! What have you to say
to that? Damme—assisting prisoners to
escape ! I’ll teach you, sir—l’ll teach you!”
He turned to speak to Mr. Robbins, and
in that brief instant Captain Brooks hissed
to the unfortunate and unhappy owner of
the cutter:
“By God, Jimmy, if you don’t admit it
I’ll tell him enough to hang you!”
“Mr. Robbins,” said the Governor sternly,
“place the cutter under arrest. You will
take her into Port Jackson —I will look
after the Cumberland. Do you admit you
were assisting prisoners to escape, Brogan?”
Fearfully the Jimmy glanced at
his friend. He saw nothing of mercy in
that scowling and brutal countenance. He
was conscious that he had been ruthlessly
betrayed and sold by the man he had sought
to assist. Miserably he replied with tears
in his little pig's eyes :
“If y’r honor pleases, yes. y’r Hex’lenzy.”
“Very good, my man. Take two of the
boat’s crew and sail the cutter to Sydney
Cove, Mr. Robbins. Have this fellow and
liis crew lodged in the gaol. As for you,
sir,” he turned to Captain Brooks, "I will
wait here until you have re-stowed your
cargo. I have fully described your actions
to the Secretary of State and the Board -of
Transport. If you do not leave the coast
at once, sir, by God, I’ll make you a pri-
soner. Now, get to work and place those
casks under hatches.”
“Good-bye, Cap’n,” said Jimmy Brogan in |
a wistful confidence. “May Gawd forgive
ye!”
“Don’t speak to me, ye rascal!”
roared Captain Brooks.
The Spirit.
I could bow down and revere
Some of the songs I’ve got,
Since through me though they’ve come
Mine they seem not.
Rather the breathings they
Are of a spirit who
Within me stayed awhile
As pilgrims do, ,
And made his every breath
Into a dreamy rhyme,
As a sign that he had been
Here for a time;
Setting his seal upon
The music I had writ,
As if his heart, not mine,
Had beat in it.
So in a lover’s heart
Sudden a pulse will stir,
As if the -maiden’s breath,
The light of her,
Had in his body got
And made his blood to be
Itself a mystic thing,
A melody.
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.
The Moonlit Street.
Bordered by trim gardens
Is the way I tread,
Gardens rich with pansies,
Lilies, roses red.
There, too, soft and shapely,
Swaying to and fro
In the velvet night wind.
Street-side laurels grow.
Though a-nigh me housefolk
Dream away the hours,
Sleepless are the laurels,
Sleepless are their flowers.
While folk stretch in slumber
’Til] the night be flown,
Mine is all this splendor,
Mine and mine alone.
Sleep is good; but better,
Sweeter, ’tis to be
Under street-side laurels
Strolling towards the sea.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Bride of the Lightning.
The Thunder is coming! The Thunder is
coming!
I hear his hoofs echoing over the plain;
While high on his crest rides my lover, the
Lightning,
Mouth shining with laughter, hair shining
with rain!
I’m ready, I’m waiting, my bridal veil
folded —
Oh, weary the months since you bade me
good-bye!
Swing low your hands, lover, and lift me
behind you;
The stars are my bridesmaids, our temple
the sky.
Fly higher, fly faster! I shall not be
frightened;
, Close tighter the clouds on the sorrowful
world —
The world that is black with the blight of
its pity •
That looks on my life as a flag that is
furled ;
That prisoned me close when it heard you |
returning
In queer little rooms with the shutters
made fast.
Could it know of the vow that you made
when you kissed me,
To find me again when the summer was
past?
“It's poor little Maeve! She's in love toith
the Lightning !
So terribly strange since it struck her that
night!
She sits there all day with her lap full of
blossoms,
And never a tear for the loss of her sight.”
The loss of my sight! Oh my lover, my
master!
What saw these poor eyes till you -washed
them with gold?
But tiny cramped spaces, and flowers that
withered,
And strange little earth-people, timid and
cold.
They weep for me—me who watch seraphs,
that glisten
Like magical petals spread wide in the
light,
Sw*eep out from behind the tall pillars of
Heaven
To welcome the brother who rides home
to-night!
The black stallion Thunder rears up on his
haunches;
His master slips down with the reins
gathered fast;
And peace like great singing descends on the
Temple. . ..
The bride of the Lightning is safe home
at last.
VICTORIA.
GEORGIA RIVERS.


s*
m
i
&
m
i.ii’teiijL'JJ!
Mb
N
V-
mmm
iMI
UJ
it
mmmmk
A
mm
m
mmmmm
ys*
W's.l
«&«
VC
4\n>
■Hi
WMi
a
e*
>
i*
IOT only in the great cities, but in the more
remote districts as well, the popularity of
Sharwood Shoes for Men and Women grows
ever greater and greater. The reason is obvious—
they are good to look at, because in cut and style they
express the last word of fashion, and they are good to
wear, materials being of the finest, and workmanship
being exceptionally thorough. For comfort and
fitting, too, they are unexcelled.
When next you need boots or shoes, ask for
Sharwood’s —wear them once and you’ll wear them
always. All better-class stores throughout Aus-
tralia will be pleased to submit the newest models
for your inspection.
Remember—the name is on every pair—be sure to
look for it! It is NOT a Sharwood unless it bears
this name!
s*®
ft*
FAtiTLE//
footwear
40
%
si
B,
,„r~ A
/ -./
S
J
b-et
fi
I,
JP
'Hi iv
>f:«»
ri x .
>
f
&
1
Ya
'mmk&!k£'
v»*
-^W
Communicate with the Sharwood Service Bureau, Abbotsford,
Melbourne, if you have any difficulty in procuring both men’s
and women’s shoes.


tfeaduinamoment
" always hade
df
in the home
itissohandu
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
Monday to Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/6.
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’Hote Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 13/-, or
a la carte, minimum, 15/-
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Jack Woods’ Ambassadors Dance
Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
The Proof.
By ALYS BROWN.
WARUPI, village constable of Marua,
sat alone on the ravi platform in-
dustriously polishing his handcuffs.
Spitting copiously on a shaggy wad of russet
coir, he dipped it in the broken gourd of
sand and ashes at his side, rubbed vigorously
for a while, then, after a tiual polish on his
naked brown thigh, held up the bright steel
circlets in the hot, glowing sunshine, moving
them to reflect, mirror-like, spots of light
on the matted screen-front of the ravi.
The feel of the smooth, hard steel gave
the old man a sense of security, a feeling
he sorely needed that morning, for talk was
running high amongst the men inside.
Beginning with low murmurings and mut-
tered grumblings on the mourners’ return
from the buryiug-ground in the early dawn,
it hgd increased in fury, like a river in spate,
until at noontide it was breaking into loud
and angry waves of speech.
Through a chink in the screen Warupi
could see Biai, his naked body black and
shining with the grease and soot of mourn-
ing. At his side, propped against the
thatched wall in a litter of bush-pigs' skulls,
stood his kwoi —the richly-carved and paint-
bedizened shield, engraved with the chronicle
of his family history. To it he had newly
added the sorrowful record of his recent
bereavement —his youngest child had been
buried that day.
Pointing to it, knife in hand, he was pas-
sionately haranguing the mob of men who
were sitting cross-legged on their mats about
him, passing round the smoking bau-bau,
interjecting assent and growling loud and
angry comments.
“If he who weareth the Government
clothes,” Biai was shouting, jerking a scorn-
ful thumb towards Warupi, “will do naught,
are we to sit on the mat of patience, idle
hands on our knees, waiting for all our
children to die —bewitched by an old sorcerer
should have been hanged long ago? Who
hath cast this evil spell on Marua? Taina,
I ask thee? Keari, thee? Eni? Paru?
And in turn he called upon near-by men
whose greasy black skins showed that they,
too, had lost children in the wave of infant
sickness which had swept the village, taking-
toll of babes from many a hut. “I ask thee
all, who hath cast this spell, if it be not
Siko —Siko, the sorcerer?”
With fierce eyes, red with grief and rage;
rough, blackened fists clenched; blood-red
spittle dripping and foaming on lips smeared
with the morning’s debauch of betel-nut and
lime, Biai searched their dark, scowling
faces, and, bending towards them, hissed
again, “Siko, the sorcerer, the slayer of our
babes!” ending with a rising yell of “Let us
kill him!”
Seizing a club, he sprang through the door-
way of the ravi as his words found imme-
diate echo in the frenzied shout that rang to
the lofty, smoke-grimed rafters. His com-
panions, swept along with the tide of his
fury, leapt to their feet with a force that
shook the sago-bark, flooring, and, crowding
after him, took up his cry of “Kill the
sorcerer!”
Warupi, expecting and dreading this out-
burst, met them, waving his glittering hand-
cuffs in the savage faces of the foremost.
“What madness is this?” he demanded.
“Who talks of sorcery and of killing? Doth
not the Government say that sorcery is but
a maggot bred in men’s bellies by too much
betel-nut? Let this bad talk cease, Biai.
Wouldst thou hang? Show me a thief,” he
continued pompously, “and I will pounce
upon him like a dog on a magani. Point out
a murderer, and I will handcuff him and drag
him to gaol in the falling of a leaf. But
sorcery! ‘Whose eye hath seen Siko cast a
spell?’ the taubada wall ask. He will laugh
at thy foolish talk!”
“Then why are sorcerers gaoled if there
be no sorcery?” demanded Taina. “Is not
Koivi, the sorcerer of Kupiri, working even
now on the gaol plantation?”
“And what of Miri of Katatai? Did he
not die whilst in gaol for sorcery?” fiercely
questioned Paru.
“Bah!” snarled Biai, looking with blister-
ing contempt at Warupi. “Kupiri and
Katatai have men wearing the Government
clothes, but the clothes bought with our
taxes are worn by this doddering old woman
who spits on his handcuffs to polish them
instead of keeping them bright with use.
Never yet have I, nor any other man, seen
Warupi handcuff a man. We pay our taxes,
yet our children dje without being avenged.
Give the sorcerer a taste of his own medi-
cine, say I; or have ye all cramps in the
belly, and water for blood?” And excitedly
flourishing His club, he almost knocked the
handcuffs from Warupi’s hand.
“This is madness, born of thy sorrow.
Were it not thy day of mourning, Biai,”
warned the old policeman, “thou shouldst
answer for this. Be patient, I say, until
thou hast proof.”
“Words! Words! Nothing but wind and
words!” raved Biai. “Thy tongue is as long
as a trail of seeking ants, but worse, for it
leads to nowhere. If thou wilt not let us
kill Siko, go handcuff him and take him for
trial.”
“Aye!” roared the others. “Handcuff Siko
and take him for trial.”
“There is no proof,” warned Warupi, “yet
I will do as ye demand. Drop those clubs;
there must be no bloodshed. I will put on
my Government clothes; then ye shall come
with me to arrest Siko. I call upon all who
have lost children to bear witness against
him. So, if scorn there be, ye shall share
it, for the tnubada’s tongue is like a hornet's
sting thrust into those who make court need-
lessly.”
The fierce and sudden storm of passion
and hate aroused by Biai, which in earlier
days had sent spears to a hasty blooding,
received a sudden check at his words. Quick
blows from behind and red death to an
unwary sorcerer were more to their liking
than helping to arrest one who, in his wrath,
might blast a man with a look. They stood
about, nervously irresolute, as Warupi hur-
ried off to his hut. Only the presence of
Biai, his face a mask of scowling, red-eyed
hate, prevented a hurried retreat and a re-
cantation of their demand.
When Warupi returned, smoothing out
creases and patting the red “V.C.” on his
blue-serge jumper as though to reassure
himself, they were still wavering, but at
his summons followed in a disorderly crowd
to the shady grove where Siko’s hut stood
on the outskirts of the village.
Siko, a lean, knobbly old man with a
thatch of grizzled hair and a thin, wise face,
was seated before his hut, a crazy jungle
‘“When thy wife wanted a son,
Eni, old Siko was then a maker
of good spells and no sorcerer!’”
shelter of broad palm-leaves and banana-
fronds. From a black wooden bowl held
between his scraggy knees be was noisily
scooping sago soup to bis month with a
shell spoon, lie carefully scraped up the
last drop before deigning to notice the rabble
halted before him. Then, slowly raising his
head, he surveyed them from under bushy
grey eyebrows.
Silence fell as they shrank back uneasily
from the steady stare of those piercing black
eyes. Warupi alone, brave in his Govern-
ment uniform, stepped forward, flourishing
the well-polished handcuffs, but keeping his
eyes averted—for no man may look an angry
sorcerer in the eye and still live.
“I arrest thee, Siko, on a charge of sor-
cery,” he mumbled in apologetic tones.
“These,” waving his hand to the mob, “bear
witness against thee.”
The old man looked round, wagging his
grey head until the torn septum of his nose
and the ragged lobes of his ears shook like
brown, fleshy bell-clappers. He cackled and
chuckled sourly, then croaked harshly, “Eh !
Eli! Sorcery? Ye are brave men to arrest
a sorcerer!”
Suddenly darting a long talon at Eni,
who slunk behind Warupi, he snapped,
“When thy wife wanted a son, Eni, old Siko
was then a bal)ilaic tauna, a maker of good
spells and no sorcerer.” The skinny finger
singled out another cringing form. “I see
thee, Paru! When thy pig was sick, old
Siko was a wise doctor, and there was no
talk of black magic.” His shrivelled claw
waved over the crowd, pointing out this man
w T ho had sought a love philtre; that one who
had begged his aid in the ancient lore of
canoe magic; others who had prayed to have
stones removed from aching bellies or evil
spirits exorcised.
Shamefaced and silent under the spell of
that accusing finger, they shuffled uneasily,
heads bowed and eyes averted, as his tongue
reviled them, spitting scorn.
But before they could turn and flee,
Warupi, urged by Biai and Taina, snapped
the handcuffs on his thin, stringy wrists and
ordered the witnesses to prepare for the jour-
ney to the Government station.
It was well towards mid-afternoon before
the party reluctantly started, the passion for
revenge having died down in all save Biai,
who was still brooding over the loss of his
babe.
In the quiet of the forest path the air was
indolent with sun-wanned moisture and
heavy with the scent of flowering vines.
Fragrant, drooping orchids spilled heady
incense from aloft, where startled flocks of
painted pigeons flitted, as the rustle of bare
feet stirred the drifts of fallen leaves along
the track. The men of Mania walked in
sullen silence ; their prisoner, manacled hands
before him, in their midst.
But Siko was not silent. As he ambled
along his harsh and bitter tongue flayed them
in turn with burning, gibing words; every
word, a dart dipped in. poison, finding a
sore spot under some man's skin. He related
spicy details of I’aru’s ancestry; gave old
Taina the true paternity of his last-born,
jeering at Eni’s guilty face which belied a
strenuous denial; Kcari heard for the first
time of the true fate of his fat pig, lost
whilst he was away at the lverepi dance,
and the furtive looks of the others confirmed
Siko’s assertion that it was into their greedy
maws the pig had gone, and not into the
ravening jaws of an alligator, as they had
told Keari.
Warupi good-naturedly pounded a betel-
nut for him. wrapping it with a dab of lime
in a pepper leaf, and, slipping it in his
mouth, hoped to stop those scandalous reve-
lations. Hut it seemed only to stimulate his
brain and brought forth fresh home-truths.
There was enough fuel in the old man’s talk
on that afternoon’s journey to set all Marua
village ablaze.
The last red embers of day were smoulder-
ing in the sky and the cicadas were shrilling
their evensong as the party came to the broad
river; Siko, still garrulous, baring shameful
secrets with shameless candor; every man
smarting under the flail of the sorcerer’s
tongue ; each suspicious of his fellow ; Siko’s
taunts rankling in every mind.
As they debated, wrangling querulously
about the crossing, for the ferry canoe was
on the opposite bank, Siko chuckled with
malicious glee, his keen, black ayes agleam
with spite.
“Swim over, one of ye and bring the
canoe across,” he suggested; and. as none
volunteered, “Perchance ye are afraid that
old Siko will call an alligator from the
depths.” he jeered.
“Hold thy tongue! We will sleep here and
cross at dawn,” snapped Warupi crossly, his
easy temper frayed to shreds. “Make a fire
and let us eat.”
As the party sat morosely round the leap-
ing flames, silently munching their food and
avoiding each others’ eyes, Siko, with bitter
glee, renewed his flow of reminiscence, reveal-
ing hidden misdeeds and raking out many a
skeleton which Marua men had hoped was
buried for ever.
At last, turning to Warupi and holding
out liis fettered hands, he demanded imper-
iously, “Take off these handcuffs! This
foolery has gone far enough ! What if I am
a sorcerer?” And he looked at their averted
heads with a mocking smile. “The white
man can do nothing to a true sorcerer, a
servant of Kovave. Maybe, too, I will tell
the taubada such tales of Marua doings that
soon he will be amongst ye witfi his police.”
“That’s what I say!” Taina broke in
eagerly. “What can the Government do to
a true sorcerer? Nothing! Besides, if Siko
shews what is in his belly to the taubada,
much trouble will fall upon us, and all
because thou wert o\er-basty, Warupi, and
refused to listen to our counsel and get
proof before handcuffing our old friend. Thou
art too ready with thine handcuffs, ever
snapping them on without cause. What say
ye, brothers? Am I not right?”
“Truly thou art right, Taina! There is
no reason why Siko should be locked up!
Release him, Warupi. and let us get back
home! This is a fool’s errand! Tliou hast
no proof, so let him go!” came flying from
all sides.
At this unwarranted attack. Warupi was
so dumbfounded that he could only stare
at them open-mouthed, in paralysed silence.
But Biai, brooding silently at his side, fires
of_ hate flickering in his eyes, arose and
cried, “How can Warupi let him go? He
hath no key to the handcuffs; only at the
station can they be unlocked. Let there
be no talk of letting Siko go, brothers. But,
say I, let us get this proof which is lacking
and stop this old babbler’s foul tongue.”
“Ah, yes,” they chorused, “the proof!
Shew us how to get the proof. Speak what
is in thy belly, Biai!”
“Throw him in the river!” hp answered,
with malevolent ferocity. '
■‘That would be murder !•” hastily objected
Warupi, aghast at the suggestion.
“Nay, nay! I mean no murder,” Biai con-
tinued craftily. “Siko doth not deny that he is
a sorcerer, so nothing can harm him if that
be so. Let us test him. Throw him in the
river, and if Kovave looses his servant from
the handcuffs and he drowns not, then we
have sure proof. What say ye, brothers?”
“Aye, aye!” came the answer. “Let us do
as Biai says!”
With a troubled glance at the malignant-
tongued Siko ? on whose thyi lips a mocking
smile still lingered, Warupi scratched his
bald bead and thought deeply. "It seems
quite a fair test, and one that the taubada
cannot but believe,” ho announced at last.
Siko made no effort to escape as strong
hands grasped him, bore him to the river
bank, and with a heave shot his skinny body
far out into the placid, darkling water, shat-
tering the star-shine into a myriad frag-
ments.
The ripples died away; the river flowed
calmly on.
A minute elapsed, but no grey head broke
the glassy surface.
“Kovave is in no hurry to free ids ser-
vant,” hazarded Warupi, anxiously scanning
the smooth-flowing stream.
“Give him time!” answered Biai from the
darkness, full sure that at last his child
was avenged. “Any river is deep enough to
drown a fool, but a sorcerer cannot drown.
Did not Siko say so himself?”
The minutes dragged along and still no
Siko appeared. In the waiting silence, men
listened to the beating of their own hearts,
and shivered as a bat went whispering by.
“Methinks Kovave hath deserted his ser-
vant,” remarked Warupi dismally, “or else
Siko was no true sorcerer.”
“That is so,” said Taina. “This is a
terrible thing thou hast done, Warupi. In
search of that proof of thine, thou hast
drowned an innocent man.”
“Ai-ee! Ai-ee!” wailed Warupi. “But
he hath stolen my handcuffs. That lying
braggart hath taken them with him and
now they lie at the bottom of the river.
Ai-ee! What shall I do?”
“This trouble is all thine own fault,”
accused Taina. “It comes from thy mad
haste to handcuff the man and then thy
foolish search for a proof. _ The taubada
will be very wrath with thee.”
“With us all,” corrected Warupi.
“Not so,” was the retort. “We be but
witnesses coming at thy command. We
were satisfied with words ; thou alone didst
demand proof of the eye; therefore the fault
is thine. Now thou wouldst drag 11s all to
trouble with thee, bringing shame to thy
friends and neighbors.”
“But I must tell of the theft of my
handcuffs,” pleaded Warupi desperately,
looking round for sympathy and finding none.
"How can I tell aught but the truth to the
taubada, whose eyes look into a man's belly
and see a lie ere it leaves liis lips? Who
will come with me and bear witness to my
tale?”
“Not I!” came promptly from every man.
"Oh, Warupi,” protested Eni, “how can
we thy friends bear witness against thee,
telling of thy hasty temper and this evil
deed? Better far that we return home.”
So. despite Warupi’s protests, each man
seized a glowing firestick and hurried away
up the homeward track, leaving the old con-
stable staring disconsolately over the broad,
spangled ribbon of the river, now a fallen
sky of stars.
Around him, black and mysterious,
stretched the thick web of jungle. Through
the tree-tops the niglit-wind was soughing
faintly as the dark, glossy leaves of a bcndoro
tree parted above him, and a wet, wizened
face peered down at his bald head.
It was Siko the Sorcerer —he who in his
youth had been Siko the Fish.
Whilst his fellow-villagers were arguing,
round the fire, deciding his fate, Siko had
been quietly working one lean hand through
its slack fetter. So. when his limp body had
been tossed into the river, he struck out
under water for the heavily-shadowed bank.
Gaining this unperceived, he had swarmed
swiftly upwards, agile as a cuscus. On his
hidden perch in the bendoro he had waited,
screwing his still-encircled wrist from the
grasp of the slippery steel; silent, until the
last gleaming firestick disappeared from view
along the gloom-enshrouded path.
Then, with a mischievous grin, he dropped
the handcuffs at Warupi’s feet.
“Thy proof, Warupi! All that is hidden
is not lost,” lie chortled hoarsely, looking
down into the startled, upturned face. “But
remember, ‘No flies crawl into a shut
mouth!’ ” <
There was a rustle in the tree-tops, a hint
of mocking laughter floated in the luminous
darkness, and Warupi was once more alone,
his belly turned to water, his knees weak
with fright.
Snatching up the precious handcuffs, he
fingered the cold steel lovingly, then with a
grunt of relief spat upon them, and, polishipg
vigorously with a corner of his rami, hur-
riedly took the track to Mania.


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £8.309.065
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18,623,153
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. H. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER: C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH: G 2 Bisliopsgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 186 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock fol-’nnn
Preference Shares .. •• ••
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. ®
Ordinary Shares .. • • • •
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,0-o
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Fire lnsuranoes' ffl .ctcd on ail classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
Marine Risks
Accident and
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
ou Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting Loudon
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
oflices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
ean be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency. Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Keep hopping and hoping if yon wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL & Cuo.
if you have
Woo! & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
sdf
XLbe Bonumon
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion'' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
Shipping, etc.
V
w
ri»§
Svtm
JL
WjKrmiO
M<4
VW\ v
Pacific Isles are Calling!
HONOLULU EXCURSIONS
SPECIAL Excursions to Honolulu via Auck-
land and Suva will be run from Sydney
by the magnificent ocean liners Aorangi,
Niagara and Makura.
U XQUISITE Hawaii, evibowered in blos-
*-* som, offers fragrant welcome to her
Australian guests. A thousand sights
enchant, and fascinating contrasts. extend
from the surfing beach of Waikiki to the
great precipice of the Pali.
SPECIAL EXCURSIONS TO
HONOLULU
£75 First and £55 Second (return).
Niagara leaves Sydney May 30
Makura ~ .. June 2 7
Aorangi .. ~ July 25
ALTERNATIVE EXCURSIONS TO
TAHITI
£55 First and £4O Second (return).
Tahiti leaves Sydney May 16
Maunganui,, .. June 1 3
Tahiti .. •• July 1 I
Particulars and literature from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
- 247 George Street, Sydney.
29 William Street, Melbourne, Cl.
STEAMSHIP PASSAGES
Arranged by All Steamship Lines.
Choice of Any Route. Without Extra Charge.
ENGLAND
FRANCE
ITALY
GERMANY
From AUSTRALIA
AMERICA
CANADA
MEXICO
AFRICA
to
JAPAN
EGYPT
INDIA
CHINA
Also attractive tours to Honolulu, Java, Colombo, Fiji, etc.
BUSINESS TRIPS. PLEASURE CRUISES.
AUSTRALIA TO
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
VISIT JAVA (“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly sailings maintained by the popu-
lar steamers “MARELLA” and “MALA-
BAR” from Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane, via Queensland Ports. Torres
Strait, Darwin, etc.
For Reservations arid Information apply
JC
mmmm
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. And all Branch Offices.
A
sdf
FOLLOW THIS SIGN FOR PROFITS
TO THE
LEIPZIG SPRING FAIR. (Germany),
With GREAT ENGINEERING AND BUILDING FAIRS, Commencing March 3, 1929
Profitable to the Business Man on acconmt of the payable agencies offering.
Profitable bo the Pleasure Seeker, as the beauty of Springtime in Germany, and
the wonderment of the Fair is a sight worth seeing. Advice and Letters of Intro-
duction courteously given entirely free.
Authorised Representative: LARS G. BRUNDAIIL, 6 Dailey Street, Sydney. ’Phones: 84006, MW2201.
Splendid Cheap Service
Via Supz Canal
FAST OIL BURNERS
Excellent Menu. Late Dinner.
Fares to London from £3B.
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For particulars apply
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Box 513 AA, 5 O’Connell St., Sydney.
’Phone: 86701
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 181?.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .. .
RESERVE LIABILITY
a,
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; W. E. H. Southerden, Esq. General Manager: Alfred Charles Davidson.
llpad Oliiee —George Street. Sydney London Office—29 Threadneedle Street. E.C. 3.
536 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings,
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outports).
SOUTH SEAS CALLING!
SPEND YOUR NEXT HOLIDAY
HAWAII
HAWAII
HAWAII
Here is Nature’s grandest entertainment—the
islands of perpetual sunshine-;— blessed with a
climate which is as ideal as it is bracing.
Here is a semi-Oriental setting where almost
every nation on the earth seems to be repre-
sented, life is never humdrum —is exhilarating
—thrilling—full of incident. Inter-Island
Cruises. Visit Kilauea Volcano.
Getting there is easy—convenient and relatively
cheap. Steamer Fares: From £75 first-class
return, and £55 second-class, with hotel
accommodation at from 12/- to £3 per day*,
with meals —give an indication of really what
a cheap and yet wonderful holiday can be
spent in this “Paradise of the Pacific,’'
Fullest particulars from all Steamship Agents
or from this office direct.
HAWAII TOURIST BUREAU,
Dept. 26, Box 162788, G.P.0., Sydney
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Nestor. .... 15,000 tons, Mar. 15.
■i-Ceramic .. . 18,500 ~ March 26
f Demosthenes 11,500 »« April 12.
*Ulysses. .. t 15,000 May 13
fThemistocles 11,500 ~ June 10.
* First class only, t First and Third class.
s“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd.
I Joint
| Agents
BRISBANE,via BYKON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane Issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
SS WOLLONCBAR— Every Tuesday evenug,
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
fares.— , ,
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £".s_-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3 1=
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3, 8 •
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Bristar;
Huddart ParkerLi^'
Magnificent
Fast Passenge'
Steamship!
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sail::-?'
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice r era
Particulars to be obtained on. application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hpban
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDAtIT PARKER LIMITS!
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin take;
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.


sdf
Mr. MONTY HANKS, a popular Holly-
wood Movie Slur, writes: -‘Rexona is
more than a mein bar oj soap—it is
a concentrated bundle of refreshment '
1 prefer it nut only for its cleansing
and medicinal properties, but for its
mildness as well."
USE REXONA SOAP
AND ENJOY THE HOT SUMMER DAYS!
Rexona Soap is the soap for summer. When you are hot and tired and want to feel cool
and refreshed, then is the time you will fully appreciate a wash with Rexona Soap. Rexona
Soap will refresh you in a wonderful way after u strenuous game or hours spent in the
open under a hot summer’s sun, because it contains the same soothing, healing properties as
Rexona, the Rapid Healer, and is therefore specially qualified to stimulate and refresh your
buttling, tired skin. Under a cooling shower, its generous lather gives you that fresh,
invigorated feeling which puts the vim and pep of life into vou. Rexona Soap allays the
inflammation of sunburn, relieves the clogged pores, and is a valuable aid to those who
\\i' , h to keep their skin in perfect condition throughout the summer season. Rexona
Shaving Soap has the same cooling, refreshing powers, and leaves a man’s face free from
the smarting and burning sensation so often experienced after shaving.
Rexona
Soap
%or y/e a llh
/ and
3exmtij
*
as
CUtA»HSw
rttM-SAHO
C,*\g
puw\f'^ s
II-
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
IN CO-OPERATION WITH
sd
WAGONS -LITS CO.
The only Firm with permanent
offices all over the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
Ihe accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
ESCORTED TOURS TO EUROPE.
ALL CLASSES—Leaving February, March,
April. We are the pichieers of Escorted
Travel, and having our own offices through-
out Europe, are the only Tourist Firm
properly equipped to handle such business.
Sailing Lists , Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street,
ADELAIDE:
49 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND;
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
\'Next G.P.0.).
“Object, Matrimony.”
FERDINAND MCMAHON'S STORY OF A CAMELLIA AND SEVEN
JERSEY COWS.
SO little ever happened for Miss Blake
now that she came to consider herself
something of a rebel on Saturdays. This
had not always been so; in the far-off days
that she had almost forgotten, the first days
on the farm, life had seemed to be satisfying.
There were the weekly trips to the township,
the visits to the neighbors and the neigh-
bors dropping in ; dances and parties; pic-
nics—all sorts of things were happening all
the time. And if times did come in which
nothing very exciting happened, the farm
itself was an adventure, with the fowls and
the honey and the cream, the yellow butter,
and all the richness that filled the days.
But that was long ago and half forgotten
now. The Prudence Blake of those days
was nothing like the Prudence Blake of
to-day, turning the key of her door in the
(Hebe residential. She was 40 instead of 24,
fBr one thing; and she had found that life
set its own pace. Sometimes a garden
would reawaken that old time and shake her
heart with a fervor of longing for the quiet
sights and sounds and smells, the honor and
tranquillity; hut for the most part she took
pains to nip all such childishness in the bud.
She was a white-worker, who lived in one
small room in the Glebe and had a fair con-
nection among the shirt and underclothing
liduses, so that she didn’t starve; and that
was the pace life was setting now.
But on Saturdays this rule could and did
go to pot, At twelve o’clock Miss B’.ake and
the clock in the hall downstairs struck to-
gether. She might work into the small
hours of Tuesday morning or all night on
Thursday; but on Saturday at mid-day she
became a lady who was going to spend the
afternoon in the fresh air and let her mind
think and remember and regret as it would.
She ceased to be a seamstress with a good
connection in white-work, and was Prudence
Blake who sometimes went to a beach for the
afternoon, sometimes took a ferry trip and
went for a walk, sometimes even went out
on to some country road and renewed so
fhr as she could the old times that were
gone. For this half-day she and not life set
the pace. It was the only thing that ever
happened now; it had therefore its own
sanctity of adventuye. And it was so often
stolen at the cost of concentrated effort and
endurance that it assumed also the other
sanctity of rebellion against life’s arbitrary
ordering.
Going down the street to the tram she
felt at liberty to look at the few forlorn
gardens, to catch their breath, as it were,
as she passed. They were not good gardens;
but they were gardens, and they refreshed
her for the tram-run to the Quay.
On the wide pavement in front of the
Customs House she saw a red camellia
lying, its face upturned to the sun. Such a
beautiful bloom, unspotted and quite fresh ;
somebody must have dropped it only a
moment ago. Miss Blake hesitated, looking
uown at the flower. It was a shame to leave
the lovely thing there, to be scorched and
perhaps trampled on. Finally she stooped
and picked it up, pinning it in her frock.
She glanced round half defiantly, but: there
was no one near. She waited for a lull in
the traffic, and crossed over t'o the wharves.
A brown-faced, not young but not elderly
man smiled at her and raised his hat. Miss
Blake stiffened instinctively, called herself
a fool, and looked through him. He -would
realise his mistake in a moment.
But he didn't. He crossed the pavement
and spoke to her. “You're a bit before your
time,’ he said, “but I’m early myself, so
there’s no harm done.”
He was a likeable, clear-eyed man with
an attractive diffidence in his manner. Ob-
viously no thought of irregularity troubled
ms conscience. He saw the puzzled confu-
sion in her eyes and smiled again, taking a
~v ou *- °f, his pocket and showing it to her.
n see >” he said, “the red camellia was
all I had to go by.” He flushed faintly under
his tan. “You say you’ll be here at a
quarter to one and be wearing a red camellia.
And that's all you do say.”
On the front of the letter a newspaper
cutting was pinned. Miss Blake saw the
words “Middle-aged man....good home....
meet young woman... .Object, matrimony,”
before he folded the letter and put it back
in ( his pocket.
i ’ * iei " e we ale it ’B a ne day.”
A slight change in his manner seemed to be
doing its best to cope with an embarrassing
moment. “My name’s Hyde—Joe Hyde.”
Oe paused and looked at her.
‘Mine is Blake,” she heard herself saying
before she bit her horrified lip. What mad-
ness had seized her? “But you”
‘ Goodo. I say, let’s get out of this row.
"hat about Manly and a bit of lunch? We
unjust catch a boat if we step out”
•She found herself hurrying beside him to
the Manly wharf, running beside him down
the incline, laughing breathlessly at him
on the moving boat in a confusion of calls
u gates. The boat was out in
the harbor before she realised that she was
on it with this laughing man on false pretences.
The thought shocked and half terrified her
for a moment. She turned from him and
looked at the dancing water. After all, it was
Saturday, her half-day of rebellion. . . .so she
turned back to him.... Xo, it wasn’t fair.
She must tell him now. But his kindly eyes
would become confused and perhaps angry.
His quiet wholesomeness would vanish in
embarrassment and distress.... Prudence
Blake smiled weak-mindedly at Mr. Hyde.
“We only just managed it, didn’t we?” she said.
‘‘Near thing,” he - acknowledged. “But
we’re here and out of that racket.”
Now that the boat was caught and his
escape from the racket achieved, he seemed
to have more chance of looking undistracted
?t Miss Blake. A faint puzzlement flickered
into his eyes.
"You don't like Sydney?” she said.
“Hate it,” he told her bluntly. “I always
hated a crowd. That’s why I live in the
country.”
"The country—you live in the country?”
The puzzlement became more definite.
"I said so in my advertisement. Other side
Bowral—mixed farm. It’s comfortable.
And it’s the right way to live. We’re not
ready for cities yet in Australia. But we
don’t want to talk about things like that.
We’re on the way to Manly.”
Miss Blake cast all shame and discretion
upon the dancing waters. "“I should like you
to talk about your farm,” she told him.
lie laughed. “Would you? Well, there’s
bees and poultry and the dairying—seven
Jerseys as pretty as seven pictures. The
fruit’s a bit chancey—good season, bad sea-
son—but the rest of it’s solid. Seventeen
acres, all working.”
Glebe and the endless voice of her machine,
numberless shirts and pieces of undercloth-
ing, days and nights of sustained effort
marched past her spirit and vanished. Seven-
teen acres; the fruit and the dairying and
the bees. Early mornings at the other side
of Bowral
“Most of the house is new—l had three
rooms pulled down and re-built last year”
“Never mind the house. Tell me about the
farm, the Jerseys and the poultry.”
Thereafter Miss Blake was in the old
days on this half-day of rebellion. With
Joe Hyde she discussed the theories of
mashes and food generally, the laying quali-
ties of different strains, the table-bird quality
of all strains. Theories of butter, of honey,
of cream. Orchard theories —all the beloved
substance of the old days that were now gone.
The pompous dining-room of the Touraine
in Manly had no power over these sim-
plicities. The sixteen years of pain and
spiritual defeat fled, and in the aura of his
kind firm personality she could almost be-
lieve that they had never been.
“I was always one for hoeing my own
row,” lie told her, the half shy smile flick-
ering in his face again, “and living and
working alone I've learnt a lot about
farming on a small scale. 1 mean a lot
that you don't get in the books —the littl"
things that make it worth while to you for
its own sake and not for what you can
get out of it. But you get lonely in the
end. And the more you learn about fruit
and bees and poultry—even about flowers
—the more you get it into your head that
you can't shut yourself up.” lie glanced
at her with his queer half diffident, half
puzzled air. “Do you tlynk you can ?” he added.
“Sometimes it can’t be avoided.”
His clear gaze was still watching her face,
as if he were trying to discover, to track
down some elusive thought or faint dis-
appointment. Presently he appeared to
banish this dim confusion and to devote
himself to her entertainment. She knew
what that elusive disappointment was; but
shame and discretion being drowned in the
harbor she smiled hardily at him and accep-
ted the glory of the entertainment. No
Saturday had ever been like this; nor would
a Saturday ever like this come again.
“Well, I’m fifty, and I’m lonely. And
there’s the farm when I’m gone—l don’t
want strangers in the place I made, do I?"
This was a nice man. A man to trust
and yet a man to look after and help.
And it was all so rich and sweet, this
plunging headlong into the vanished tranquil
days. His eyes smiled at her across the table.
“Bet's get out of this and go for a stroll.
These places get on your nerves after a bit,
don’t they?”
“Thank you for a beautiful lunch. I have
never eaten such a meal.”
He laughed comfortably. “I’m not fussy
about my tucker. But I’m sick of being
on my ow T n. You see, I haven’t had much
time for women. And a man doesn’t like
to find himself alone when he's getting old.”
He seemed to have forgotten her and to
be talking to himself.
“Of course, it seems like a hide, asking
a young, good-looking gill to take on a man
of my age. And a place like mine—quiet,
with no pictures or anything. But I’d make
it up to her some way.”
His voice ceased. Now there was nothing
in the room, nothing in the world, but shame.
A horrifying picture of herself—forty and
plain and dull, trying to take the place of
the laughing girl this man wanted.... He
had taken a kind way of telling her instead
of just letting her go and laughing behind
her back....
Miss Blake stood up. “Let us go,” she
said. “I—l must be getting home.”
In the street she turned and faced him.
“Good-bye. Thank you for a lovely time.
And good luck! I hope you find her soon.”
This w T as one gift the barren years of life
gave you: the power to hide your pain until
you were alone.
He gave one startled exclamation; then
he sighed audibly, and his eyes were kind
and sorry as he shook hands.
A gifl with a very short skirt, a painted
face and a hardy eye was pointing an ac-
cusing finger at the red camellia flaring on
Miss Blake's black frock. “That's my
flow r er! Me red camellia! Where'd you
get it? An’ me walking up and down the
Quay till I hated meself —I'd been at it
half an hour before I noticed me eamellia’d
hopped it. Where’d you get it?”
“I—l picked it up.”
“Yes. and me gentleman friend too. by
the look o’ things. Aren’t you Joe Hyde?”
Now was her chance. While the kind
grave eyes were turned to the laughing girl
Prudence Blake vanished.
There being nearly half an hour to wait
for the Sydney ferry she sat down.
If those shirts for Mr. Isaacs could be
done by three o'clock on Monday afternoon,
that would leave a good four davs for the
princess slips that Madame Lavalle was so
particular about. She ought to pay more
for the finish she insisted on ; but all her
white-work would instantly go elsewhere if
such a thing was hinted at. So it wouldn't
be hinted at.
All these excitements had made her feel
tired and rather old and helpless. She
wasn’t used to things happening at all, let
alone at the pace they’d been happening
to-day. She must get quiet and calm, and
able to do a good evening's work.
A brown square hand came round and
plucked the red camellia from her frock.
Dismayed she looked up.
He was smiling his diffident smile and
handing her a knot of mignonette. “Here
this is more like you,” he said.
Be threw the camellia into the harbor
and sank into the Seatjbeside her.
“Lord, what a fool' a~ man can be for
years,” he said, “and find if out in a few
minutes!”


fsd
Confidence in each shot when you use Lyman Sights is
worth far more than their small cost. You’ll be sur-
prised at vou'r improvement when you equip your gun
with the correct Lyman front and rear sights. There’s
a sight chart to guide \'ou in the complete catalog, sent
for Cd. A line famous for 40 years.
-■ ,
urn
VSM.W.
mm
mi
No. 29} —Wind gauge Sight, for all Savage Lever-
action Rifles. Price 30/- each.
No. o—Folding:0—Folding: Leaf
Sight. Price 10.'8 each
V.v
X lA—Tang
'"-ght. Stays
“put” with thumb lock.
For all rifles. Price 21/-
eaeh. 22/6 each with disc.
No. oB
Hooded From
Sight for all
Riflas. Price
10/C each.
For prompt reply, send your inquiries for literature to our exclusive representatives:
ASHER SMITH, LTD., P.O. Box 966GG, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE LYMAN GUN SIGHT CORP. 60 West Street, Middlefield, Conn., U.S.A.
Whitest
Purest
Best
These are not idle words, they are
backed by the largest Gin Distillers in
the World and guaranteed by a repu-
tation enjoyed and jealously guarded
for over 150 years ! Gordon’s Gin
is produced in London, England, by
the original process of distillation from
the original recipe, the secrets of
which belong to the HOUSE qf
GORDON and have been handed
down through generations ! It is for
this reason Gordon’s Gin has the
largest sale at Home and throughout
the World, having no rival for Purity
or Quality.
G © ff* dl © in 5 s
GIN
Guaranteed distilled
in London, England
4*
r*v 1 v
r&vth'
//x»
Gordons
Safe
DRY GIN
.^KJI
t N (,IMO
SB*
t' 1 —bivruico ••* b«sw
. CQROQN tC? t J
The Heart of a
Good Cocktail
BY APPOINTMENT.
The Largest
Gin Distillers
in the World
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
found himself thinking a great deal about
Lois. At these times his mind invariably
centred about an imagined self-justification.
Yet he emerged always with the same sense
of defeat. He could never quite picture
her acceptance of his arguments. Almost
but not quite. And this added fuel to his
obstinacy. After all, she was absurdly
idealistic. And one had a right to one’s
own viewpoint.
The new attitude, while it did not allay
his unease, served to disarm it. He gave
his whole energies to a cautious conclusion.
The preliminary deposit had been paid
to the vendors, and a contract of sale had
been drawn up in his name, but was as
yet unsigned. Herein was the crux of his
opportunity, for he had scarcely paid over
the deposit than he received an offer to buy
at a increase. He was able to
arrange with the vendors to substitute as
purchaser the name of this new party, thus
removing his own interests from the record
of the transaction, while leaving him free
to retain the whole of the profit. Like
most proceedings of the kind, it was prac-
tically without clue to discovery. What he
had done was merely to utilise the £SOOO
subscribed by the syndicate of his friends
in order to put the deal through. There
remained now to return this money, with
suitable regrets.
Jasper deferred this consummation for
some days. He was somehow reluctant to
confront himself with Ronald’s disappoint-
ment.
He chose deliberately in the end to
acquaint his friends with the outcome upon
an evening when he knew he would encoun-
ter most of them at Lois’s flat. His appear-
ance received the casual but good-humored
greeting to which he was accustomed from
these quaint companions. His answering
sally was speedily drowned in the cross-fire
of words and laughter.
“We’re inventing epigrams, apothegms
and whatnots,” Lois said laughingly as he
drew a chair to her side.
“What’s the subject?”
“Death. We’re getting morbid, I’m afraid.”
She clapped her hands, demanding atten-
tion. “Listen, everybody! How does this
sound? ‘Death is the dust of life.’”
Miss Ophelia Jones, resplendent in a
gown of green silk, nodded her approval.
“I’ve thought of one, too. ‘Death is the
beginning of life.’ ”
For no apparent reason Jim Thor shouted
at this, “My oath!”
“It’s not original,” someone accused.
In the mild uproar Mrs. Pole-Bugle
appealed to Jasper. Her large, kindly face
wore an expression of bewilderment. She
said, cunningly disguising the fact of her
deafness: “I really think I must have been
dozing. Do. tell me what they’re all talk-
ing about, Mr. Leith?”
“Death,” Jasper said.
Mrs. Pole-Bugle shuddered.
“The idea! Death is so insanitary.”
“That is as good as anything the rest, of
3'ou said,” Ronald confided to Lois and
Jasper with amusement under cover of the
renewed chatter.
Jasper, strangely nervous, seized the
opportunity. “I say, Ronald, that arcade
stuff is all off. I’m awfully sorry, but, of
course, it might have been worse. Someone
got in aheacj- of us.”
“Honest?” Ronald exclaimed. His face
fell. “Well, that’s tough. By George, it
is! Who was it, Jasper?”
“Man named Turner. I understand,”
Jasper said. He was uncomfortably con-
scious of Lois’s concerned gaze. It angered
him to discover that he was afraid just
then to meet her eyes. He added, quite
sharply: “It’s no use crying over spilt milk.
We’re all in the same bbat. It didn’t come
off. and that’s all there is to it ”
“Dash it,” Ronald replied flushing, “I
haven’t complained. Of course it can’t be
helped. It was jolly good of you, anyway,
to give us the chance.”
Sudden contrition seized Jasper. He
forced himself to look calmly at Lois, but
the effort made him frown slightly. Her
gaze, he thought, was very direct, and he
imagined a little ironical droop at the cor-
ners of her mouth.
“I’m sorry,” he said, to Ronald’s hurt ex-
pression. “You see, my own disappoint-
ment has made me pretty sore. Look here,
I’ll be striking on something else, some-
thing big, any old time. I’m looking
around now. You chaps can come in, if
you like. I really want you to.”
“Why, of course,” Ronald said, but with-
out much enthusiasm.
“I’ve drawn a cheque for the £5000,”
Jasper said. “Payable to you. You’ll settle
with the rest.” .
He sat stiffly, watching Ronald’s con-
veyance of the news to Herbert Parasole
and North. Lois had sat down at the
piano. She began presently to play. Jasper
did not know the name of it, but the theme
was familiar. He began to search his
memory, but was interrupted by a hand on
his arm. He turned to see the large, placid
face of Mrs. Pole-Bugle rising moonlike
at his shoulder. She said, as Lois came
from the piano: “Did you hear that Lois
is to study abroad for three years? Or is
it four? I can never remember details.
We’re all so pleased.”
Bflt Jasper was not listening to her. He
was aware of a little tightening at his
temples, as he stared at Lois. She was
laughing and talking at the centre of a
little group, her hands moving about the
smoke-like tendrils of her escaping hair.
Her whole being seemed instinct with a
kind of gentle content.
Jasper began to reflect. Lois, all these
people, had a strange quality of com-
placency. In some mysterious way their
philosophy appeared proof against the
vexations of existence. He believed verily
that they could find laughter and a certain
happiness in no matter what circumstances.
No one of them had more than average
means, with the exception of Ronald Braid.
Old Edgethwait, the shabby, attenuated
bibliophile. Jasper had once met. him
accidentally - in the musty half-light of a
second-hand bookshop, muttering ecstati-
cally into the pages of a miraculous dis-
covery, while he fumbled in first one pocket
and then another. His relieved looks, when
Jasper made himself known, on an impulse,
suggested the arrest of a threatened tragedy.
His voice was full of furtive entreaty.
“Mr. Leith! How fortunate to meet you
like this! Could you—would you mind,
I wonder, lending me two shillings? If you
possibly could”....
Edgethwait and Miss Carmody. Lois
herself. They had some secret serenity—
an understanding, as it were, with life it-
self—that Jasper was only now becoming
aware of. A simplicity, a containing of
self, a resting upon what they w r ere rather
than upon what they had He could
imagine them even as being scornful of
things beyond, as though they were not to
bo deceived by the shadow facts of pos-
session or service. Children they were,
romping with naked minds in the fields of
a great enchant ment. He had a moment of
wistful hunger to join his mind with theirs
Lois was speaking to him.
“Jasper, can you give some of them a
lift home? Your car is outside, isn’t it?
It’s Miss Carmody I’m really thinking of.
She’s quite done up. They work her far
too hard in that beastly office.”
“I’ll run her home,” Jasper promised. He
caught at his fear. “Lois, is,it true that
you’re... .going to England to study
music?”
Her expression was a little odd.
“I don’t know. They’ve made me the
offer, but I haven’t made up my mind yet.
Why, Jasper?”
“Why? Good God, you can ask why?
No; I shouldn’t have said that. You’ll do
what is best, of course. Only....I shall
miss you.”
Lois said slowly: “You see, I’m not
frightfully keen to make a name for my-
self that way. Supposing I said that I had
decided not to go? Oh Jasper, I don’t
want to go.”
“Then why consider it?” Jasper wondered
dully.
“I don’t know. I .can’t explain. Don’t
look at me in that way—as though you
hated me.”
“Or you hated me!”
Lois crimsoned, then paled. She said
coldly: “I think we’re both being a little
absurd.”
She turned away, smiling unsteadily at
Mrs. Pole-Bugle, who had made majestic
inquiry for her handbag.
“You left it on my bed. No; I’ll get it
for you/’
Jasper intercepted her as she went. His
jaw was jutting dangerously. He said,
careless of who might overhear: “By God,
you shan’t go! You can’t go! It’s un-
believable !
“Jasper, remember there’s an audience!”
“Damn the audience!” His face whitened,
and he stood aside with a little gesture of
renunciation. “What’s the use? You’ll go,
if you want to.”
She said, ia a small voice: “Haven’t I
just said that I didn’t want to.”
“Lois!”
Little Miss Carmody was saying plain-
tively: “I’m quite ready to go, Mr. Leith.
It’s awfully good of you to givfe me a lift.”
Jasper said “Damn!” under his breath.
But there had been something sweetly re-
assuring in Lois’s parting look, and he hell
this thought tightly as he piloted Miss
Carmody down the stairs. His heart was
thumping painfully.
They found young Harry Flackstyles
already sprawled in the back seat of the
car. Mr. Herbert Parasole was attempting
to gain entry over the long, entangling legi
of the artist. He said in a depressed voice:
“I just thought of the most perfectly won-
derful metaphor about death that you ever
heard. And I’ve gone and forgotten it.”
From the other side of Mr. Parasole a
sleepy voice said: “My oath!”
“They’re all in,” Ronald told Jasper,
laughing.
Something impelled Jasper to say, as he
let in the clutch: “I won’t forget about the
new deal, Ronald. I’ll let you know as
#oon as it turns up.”
{To be Continued).
Spring Tides.
Palm-fronds give m.v shutter-sashes
The grace eyes get from long eyelashes;
And there I se., at break of day,
Green mangroves dabbling in a bay
Like wading girls who, when waves rise,
Puil their bunched skirts about their thighs.
What still is left of love in me
Is for the earth and sky and sea,
The shapes they have, their strife and play
And colors, even the flats of grey
Cadaverous ebb-drained mud—the bare
Dead body of noon, withjleath’s harsh glare.
A new moon drops Sown sunset-dazed,
Or an old moon comes up amazed;
The tide returns: to hear it stir
Brings happiness, as if it were
A child asleep w r here now I go
To listen at my door tiptoe.
NT.
FREDEERICK T. MACARTNEY.


wm
V ■
V W
y*» ~'
\#
v
\sEta
WESTING HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
FHE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—HOLllBS £ CHIHCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Olliee —1)3-107 I'eatherston Street, Wellington
Victorian Ollier—“Chancery House,” 485 liourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. BiBBR, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide. 8.A.
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue is eagerly read by men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 228
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Cordon & Gotch, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone, MA3161.
Loudon Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
THE DAILY MAIL
BRISBANE
Is logically the first big daily to select in Queensland for any advertising
campaign. It gets results!
It is always bright and is progressive to a degree.
And its net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to
be greater than that of any other daily in Queensland. Its companion
journal is
THE SUNDAY MAIL
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine. These two journals
give a “cover” in Queensland that is second to none. For rates and
other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE,
Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Keep your liver healthy,
Banish stomach ills,
Sick headache & biliousness,
By taking
fs
dfs
TWO AT NIGHT
PUT YOU RIGHT
More than half the ills of mankind
spring from a disordered liver. A
sluggish liver causes constipation,
ruins the digestion, weakens the nerves,
dulls the mind and deprives you of
bodily vigour. If you are tired and
depressed just try Cockle’s Pills and
see what an amazing improvement
k follows their wonderful tonic action
npon the liver. Get a box to-day
without fait
Small pill, easily taken. Of all chemists
and stores 1/6 a box.
JAMES COCKLE & CO., LTD., LONDON.
Jiatmh Mimnm,
dtipd indigestion,
iemm constipation
take
*0
<»
« .
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
QUEENSLAND'S BIG DAILY PAPER
THE BRISBANE COURIER
Easily the best and biggest Daily Paper
published in Queensland and carries more
ADVERTISING
than any other Queensland paper year in
and year out - - “Courier” advertising
INCREASES SALES
Rate Cards and specimen
copies from
Robt. D. Fisher,
Sydney Representative,
74 Pitt Street.
’Phone 85007.
Published by the
Brisbane Newspaper Co.,
“Courier” Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Also publishers of the
“Queenslander” and
“Sports Referee.”
'S PO
FOR 86 YEARS
“ The Examiner” has been the trusted Friend of the Family
in Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in
Tasmania, and is still the Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS
Pty. Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
LAUNCESTON.
MR. V. W. MARGETTS
123 Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE
MR. W. G. DOUGAN,
701 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
dfs
df
sdf
sdf
stf'
0°
jp* *v : :
i\6 v ’ .-••• ..."
>< ..•* .-•«*' ‘<v* vV
•••


standard;
SIX
T\
s
c 1 —
-52
W
-■a-—.
«njr
jhj/r " m
n
ij
X
/a
if
;4»
»\A
□»
a
*=\yr
Striking New Beauty
New features in body design, and new and richer interior
appointments make Dodge Brothers Standard Six an
unusually well equipped, and a more strikingly beautiful
motor car in every way.
Its staunchness and flexibility, its quick pick-up and its
roadability are typical of the integrity and skill of Dodge
Brothers construction.
The Standard Six is splendid value and true economy in
a fine, roomy, dependable low-priced motor car.
Dodge Brothers complete line of passenger vehicles includes
the Standard Six, the Victory Six and the Senior Six .
Canada Cycle & Motor Co., (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane — Townsville
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide
VVinterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Harden & Johnston, Ltd., Sydney
Northern Automobiles, Ltd., Auckland, N.Z.
Amuri Motors, Ltd. .. Christchurch, 2t.Z>
Gossens and Black, Ltd. .. Dunedin, N.Z.
: T . V ' ■ / ‘ . ' • ■ '' ' -
P. H. VicTiery, Ltd. .. Invercargill, WJh
Newton King, Ltd. .. New Plymouth, NJZ,
Magnus Motors, Ltd . .. Wellington, 2 7J5.
Dodge Brothers
STANDARD SIX
«/2/*2».
