

iia
mSHBm
■
V
i
n
r:
m, %
\ ss
v„ n r
Juan
J
T
aa
6
. ; .
$
tr i"
A
... . -
REGIS
Sts' •? ' 'CI
■ a.
m,
■'l':'-
■pt
Si iilii Isisip
'
'l,l
111*111 1
The Bulletin
d
Vol. 50.—N0. 2553.
Wednesday, January 16, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


\X/RITE eor the library cata-
w LOGUE AND LISTS on all subiects,
wl ich will be forwarded on application, noct
free, to
RYMOCTv’S BOOK ARCADE, LTJD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
I
TO STOTT’S,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send me free, and without obligation, your
New Illustrated Book (just published) entitled,
“BEAUTIFUL PENMANSHIP.”
NAME
ADDRESS
B/P
I-YSAGHT
o
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
Light food for the aged.
Food
Bee. TRADE Mark.
With advancing years, the
need for food which is suit-
ably light yet strength-
giving and sustaining is
imperative. No food com-
bines these qualities so
happily as Benger’s Food,
as medical men agree.
Send for Bengers Booklet, post free.
BENGER'S FOOD, Ltd.,
350, George Street, SYDNEY.
11
Ease
with
Elegance
loin*
; --iV-WW P
THE ELGIN fits your wrist so com-
fortably and naturally that you scarcely
know it is there. ” But the ELGIN is
not merely an adornment—it is the master
of exactness, the ever ready servant at your
service at all times.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS,
<§>lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND. EFFICIENCY
Jhi? Mark in the Watch Cape
101
Why have indigestion ?
Why have stomach ills ?
Why have bilious headache?
fd
fd
TWO AT NIGHT
PUT YOU RIGHT
You will not be harassed by these
distressing ailments if you take
Cockle’s Pills. Two at bedtime
occasionally will ensure regular action
of the bowels and liver, they will keep
the blood pure and the system free
from surplus bile and uric acid, which
cause that tired, depressed feeling. Get
a box of Cockle’s Pills to-day, take
two to night and see how bright and
energetic you feel to-morrow morning.
Small pill, easy to take. Of all chepaists
and stores 1/6 a box.
JAMES COCKLE & CO., LTD., LONDON.
KILL THE TYPHOID FLY.
“MUSTDIE”
THE NON-POISONOUS POW-
DER, is Infallible in Destroying
all Insect Pests, but is Abso-
lutely Harmless to Canaries,'
Dogs, Poultry; in fact, all
Animals and Man.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
Sold Everywhere. Price 1/-
Mmom
BOUSE
FLIES
ARE
POTENT
CARRIERS
OF
disease.
The Red Page
Progress
I dreamt I saw a thousand dead black pens
With wasted points and feathers worn
away
Held in. the bony hands that once were men s
Who wrote for men in a far younger day.
All came together on one vast, white scroll;
And as they moved I read tire legend thus:
“We gave ourselves to letters, heart and soul ;
We perished, and you have forgotten us.”
Slow pity moved me; for I saw with fear
All priceless writings of sweet human care
Hung on a cobweb thread above the sheer
Bleak windy cliffs of ultimate despair.
A breath might move them back to earthly
ground;
A breath might cast them in the utter
void
How much tbe swirling tides of change have
drowned!
How much lives on that soon shall be
destroyed!
Below the steep was nothing but the blue
Of infinite far distance, and a voice
Crying “It is the morning. Make the dew
Of a new- sweetness your eternal choice!”
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
George Russell (“A.E.”)
“In Ireland poets have discarded poems
for pullets. They are busy packing eggs
for England. Eggs, not odes, are their means
to an end, the enrichment of Ireland. A
distinguished essayist and playwright is
now devoting his soul to market-gardening
with fine results in onions and radishes.
Idealists are almost extinct. Ten years ago
the Irish were so abnormally excited that
their greatest poets and idealists wanted to
shoot all other Irishmen on sight to save
the country from the Black and Tans. To-
day all is different. After the crisis in
idealism we have all become materialists.
When an old-time idealist is now discovered
in Ireland all his compatriots feel an almost
irresistible impulse to pistol him.”
Thus spake “A.E.,” the conscience and
sage of the Free State, in an attic of Plun-
kett House, Dublin, as near the stars as
can be in Eblana. “A.E.” is the universal
man, the Michelangelo of the Irish renais-
sance, poet, mystic, philosopher, painter,
political economist and poultry farmer. His
attic walls ‘are decorated with the designs
of his own hands, the heroes and heroines
of Irish legend and folklore ; most of them
in the nude, or wearing the diaphanous
draperies of the age of muslin in art and
heroics.
“A.E.” is 60, but he doesn’t look it. He
has ~the face of Le Bon Dieu of some
Gothic cathedral, with the addition of spec-
tacles and sparkling eyes. His beard is still
curly and untrimmed.
“I suppose,” I remarked, “you were satis-
fied with your visit to the United States
this year?”
“And why not, indeed?” replied “A.E.”
“The first evening they gave me a banquet
in New York at which there were 800 guests.
Twelve successive orators spoke for three
hours, and all discoursed upon the same
subject: the nobility of my soul.” There
was a malicious sparkle in his eyes as he
blew into his beard.
“Ten years ago,” he said presently in his
silky voice, “our literature, with Yeats, Synge,
James Stephens and others, was the most
mystical and idealistic in the whole world.
To-day, by way of re-action—look at James
Joyce with his “Ulysses,” Sean O’Casey,
Liam O’Flaherty and their imitators—we
have the most grossly realistic literature in
Europe. It excels in realism. Russia has
nothing on us.”
“The true- Irishman,” —“A.E.’s” voice was
rustling again—“does not exist. He is a
fiction. Ireland is a land of individuals;
Bernard Shaw, George Moore, Yeats, Joyce,
each within himself is a whole nation. The
Government is doing its best, by teaching
Gaelic in the schools, to create an Irish
nation by creating an Irish type. Perhaps
when it succeeds there will be no Irish left.
For my own part I prefer 4.000,000 men,
each thinking differently, to the same
number all thinking the same.... But I have
forgotten to tell you about the censorship.
The Parliament has been thinking that a
little scrap over such a measure wouJd
appease our native hunger for blows. As
you know, Ireland is the most Puritan
country in the world. It is so moral that
the Irish cannot endure the sight of a
naked child. Quite recently a very respect-
able soap manufacturer placarded the walls
with an advertisement showing an Irish
mother washing a nude baby. This indecent
poster excited general indignation, and
under the pressure of public opinion the
soap manufacturer has had little trousers
put upon the limbs of the naked child.”
As “A.E.” concluded his long tirade
the attic door was thrust violently open.
A female from the U.S.A. burst into the
room without being announced.
“Say. Mr. Russell,” she began, “I’m visit-
ing Ireland with my son and daughter, who
are college students. Everybody tells me
that you’re the best man to point out- the
most interesting things in this little old
city of Dublin.”
“With pleasure, Madam,” replied “A.E.”;
and with all the professional urbanity of a
Cook’s guide he continued: “You should
go and see our municipal museum. Sir
Hugh Lane has there got together a very
fine collection of modern pictures: Monets,
Manets, Degas.”
“Oh,” said the lady with a little pout,
“I quite understand, of course, that you are
a painter and much interested in these
things, but I”
“Then,” said “A.E.” with saintly courtesy,
“you should undoubtedly go to our Zoo-
logical Gardens. We have a fine collection
of lions. We rear them better than they do
in Africa. The Sahara is a poor place where
there’s very little to put into your mouth;
here, on the other hand, we give them
regular meals. Our children go and stare
at them and stimulate their appetites. They
eat well and grow fat. That’s why we have
the finest lions in the world.”
“Really,” said the American lady, bridling
a little, and being vexed in her national
amour propre, “I always thought we had
the best lions in the U.S.A. We have
hundreds of them.”
“Yes,” said “A.E.” quite suavely, “but
we have so many that we are obliged to
export them. We sell them in London,
Antwerp and New York. Some of our best
have gone to America and even Australia.
We must find markets in the world, both
for our lions and our literature.”
The American lady turned tail. She
disappeared as unceremoniously as she had
entered. Her place was taken at once by
an old dame who came in with a curtsey.
“I’m going to start a poultry farm,” she
said. “They tell me you’re the best man
in all Ireland to advise me how to start.
May I ask you?”
“Why certainly, Madam,” said “A.E.”
in his calm angelic way.
I fled downstairs. But in the street I
remembered his lines:
Aye, and deep and deeper let me drink and draw
From the olden fountain more than light or peace
or dream.
So I adjourned alone to the nearest place
of refreshment. One has not to go any
further in Dublin than in Sydney.
FRANGIS JACKSON.
On Novels—and Cash
In a country where at present the prin-
cipal occupation of the inhabitants seems
to be the writing of novels, it should be
appropriate and timely to regard the pros-
pects and profits of literary genius. It is
a kind of axiom that genius is starved and
rebuffed, that to dine well and often is no
part of a Dostoevsky, that to call a man a
Milton is almost equivalent to calling him
a misery, and that the writing of trash is
a much more comfortable business than the
composition of major works.
Genius is occasionally overlooked; the
very brilliant novelist Mary Webb, to whom
Mr. Baldwin drew attention not long ago,
is a case in point, and most people can
think of others. Yet it seems reasonably
true that an author of the first or second or
third order is only neglected if his range is
narrow or his luck most abominably out.
In almost every instance of “neglect” of
genius; even where the neglect has really
persisted awhile, there is reason for the lack
of popular interest. If Keats was “undis-
covered” during his lifetime, it must be
remembered that his life was very short.
Shelley was shackled to a philosophy that
was unpopular and subversive, and to a
style and matter that are often tedious and
sometimes intolerable. The Dowdens and
the Lionel Johnsons are authentic singers,
but their voices are small, and it is easy
to understand that they may not always be
immediately listened to. The immortal
figure that was paid for Milton’s epic is
hardly more than an indication of a pre-
valent distaste for theology.
But, while remembering exceptions, one
may quite fairly suggest that a writer of
merit has always had, and still has, an
excellent chance of winning the public ear.
Contemporary auditors may not have found
all that modern scholarship finds in Shaks-
peare, but they applauded him on the stage,
read him in the study, and filled his coffers
to a comfortable depth; and down to Wells,
Shaw and Kipling that sort of thing has
prevailed.
I suppose there are neglected men of
genius at this moment (I can almost cer-
tainly vouch for one), but when I notice
the books and the writers that are prominent
in the public eye, I cannot believe that the
eye is wholly blind. There is no final indi-
cation, of course; but the books on demand
at the libraries, the books in the shop
windows, the books that are widely
reviewed, the books that are talked about,
and the books one finds on fireside tables
and in travellers’ hands may fairly be
(Continued on page 5.)


stTruth in Advertising” rigidly adhered to during the Sale as at all other times .
Anthony Horderns’
r
GENUINE
lire
ilii
PWf»M
iMwjp
?%***'?*£
Mill
aifei
m
101
SB 88
,HM
S!!'Sl!'»
NSfil&ljM
iuiT* »«*
;-&s
Commences Thursday, 17th January
Men! Here is an opportunity
to save on your 1
Suit to Measure
That such superior quality and distinctive style, as Anthony Horderns
always make an essential part of their tailoring, can be secured at
reduced prices, is indeed an opportunity.
When you order your suit from Anthony Horderns’ you can always
rest assured that the finished result will please you in every respect-
materials, cut, make and fit will all be faultless. You also have the
benefit of individual attention in selecting from the wide range of
newest materials provided for your choice.
Remember that during the Sale your suit receives the same
best attention as at all other times.
The materials available include Pure Wool Suitings in all the new
shades and patterns, guaranteed Indigo Dyed Serges, and the latest
Herringbones and plain or fancy Greys.
Our Prices are:
£6/6/- Reduced to £5/15/*
£6/15/- Reduced to “ £6/6/-
£7/17/6 Reduced to £7/2/6
Use our D.P.S.
Anthony Horderns’ Deposit-Purchase System is
available to you during the Sale as at all other
times. Simply select the goods you require, leave
a small deposit, and pay the balance in con-
venient instalments. Goods are delivered when
final payment has been made. No interest is
charged.
Country Customers
Make use of this
fountrv matrons may benefit to the full from this outstanding offer
by sending for our Self-measurement Form and Patterns—these will
be sent post free on request. Remember our Sale concludes on th
1 6th February.
OPEN UNTIL 9 P.M. EVERY FRIDAY.
Anthony Horderns’
Telephone M 24-01
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712c t G.P.O.


#
/
r
/
a?
S
% ’<
■SfffBJMS
Hi 1 !! 11111 l
5 ® °
»c > ?
-■v
»i uSv'
«,«»»»
f KiiinWr ll^
a
3w
Mr-?
j?
5 h'*-* :• 0 ■'
Pf
: s:‘
*£&
PRICE
3
BERRY
cMore and more e/lustralians are appre-
ciating, the fact that here in our own
country is distilled a whisky 0 finer than
any the world produces. Old Court sales
continue to increase—its mellowness, flavor
and a£e are winning all who try it. T)on’t he
led into the belief that whisky must be im-
ported to be g,ood —let a trial convince you of
the matchless qualities of OLD COURT.
IWiisfui
£/hc Vorlcfr Purcsb / I


/^T'.* x• x ft% %’tiss\
MbX%X«XftXft\»XftXftXftX«\A
A' - .ft\ftXftXftxftXftXftXftXfcXKA
y.ftXftNftHftXftxftXftxftNftxftxY
VftXftXftXftXftXftXOXftXftXftXt
ft NftXftxftxft x ft x «x ft x«x ft % ft %
XftXftXftXftXftXftXßXftXftXftXC
ftXftXftXftXftXftXftX&XftXftXft'..
Lxftxftxftxftxftxftxftxftxftxftx'j
X«XftXftXftX&XSKftXftX«xftXft/
\\ftxftxftxftx&xax«x»xftxft’.//
£\;ftNftx«xftXbNex&xsx«\;6o
X^ftXfcXftXftXftXftXftXftXt#/
iaSss^s^SNbXbMrtifiN^ii
iw:ssNsvftx»xsxftXftftftx<r>s?>is:s
s>XJ»XftXftX»v
m
Ifffe
f^v
In two popular qualities—the
original 931 and the lower-
priced 88 quality.
IN the AERTEX wonder weave lies the secret of
the unique properties possessed by every
AERTEX garment. Clad in AERTEX your skin
breathes naturally, through the myriad air cells of
the fabric and extremes of heat or cold cannot
affed your bodily comfort. The most comfortable
underwear for all climatic conditions AERTEX
is a necessity in tropical countries.
Obtainable from all Hosiers, Drapers and
Outfitters. In case of difficulty apply to
Mr. H. 0. S. DREW
313/315 FLINDERS LANE,
MELBOURNE, Australia.
Representative of the Cellular Clothing Co.
Ltd., who supplies Wholesale Trade only.
AERTEX
tONDO^
%"♦
m
•$T$ This Label on oil Garments
vt:
S« this label on all garments
a, 5
described as the books the public reads.
And what are they? A varied, but not
altogether indiscriminate mixture; Feucht-
wanger and Edgar Wallace, Dekobra and
Thornton Wilder, Byrne and Willa Cather
and Oppenheim and Dreiser and P. C. Wren
and Dennis Mackail and “Sapper” and
Montague. The public has a varied and
catholic taste, and because of that the man
of talent has a chance with the man of
low and frivolous dexterity. Dexterity
sometimes may make more money, but
talent is usually accommodated; both of
them depend upon the prevailing influence
that most affects the public. What is it
that really sells a book nowadays? Not
merely the critics and discriminate readers,
but very largely these. They made “Jew
Suss” and “The Bridge of San Luiz Rey,”
and they popularised Edgar Wallace and
boomed “Beau Geste.”
Advertisement, in the common sense, may
help a book; publicity, in the best sense,
makes it. For the desirable kind of pub-
licity is that which is given in the best
reviews and by the first readers, who are
less likely to come to a book accidentally
than because they are eager-minded and
intellectually able. There are enough good
reviewers and enough intelligent readers
nowadays to give writers of talent and
“genius” an excellent chance—unless, like
Mrs. Lewis, they are singularly out-of-luck,
and die a pace before their promulgation.
D. P. McGUIRE.
Cagliostro
“And so farewell, my fat and jolly friend
with the ‘front of brass,’ as Carlyle called
thee! To this great author, and to thine
own mighty shadow, which stood out in
wondrous contrast amid the soap-bubbles of
thine Age—to thee, thou brightest of the
myths of thy century, this book is indebted
for its being!”
Well, Johannes von Guenther, this critic
has read with delight your book Cagliostro,
lately from the press of Heinemann, clean
through its 615 large pages, and he thinks
you have been mighty kind to Carlyle.
True, Carlyle remarked that the history
of an Original Man is always worth know-
ing. True, he described the great Cag-
liostro definitely when he said he was not
so much a Liar as a Lie. “Unparalleled
Cagliostro,” he rightly called him, nor was
he over-writing when he commented;
Starting from the lowest point of Fortune’s wheel,
he rose to a height universally notable without
external furtherance, money, beauty, bravery, almost
without commonsense, or any discernible worth
whatever, he sumptuously supported, for a long course
of years, the wants and digestion of one of the
greediest bodies, and one of the greediest minds.
Descriptive, all of that—sparing, perhaps,
the want of commonsense—but, like all
Carlyles “Cagliostro,” it fails because it
deals with a historical figure and not with a
human , being. That is where this latest
writer of Cagliostro admirably succeeds. In
positive historical detail, fact, he may stray
considerably, but artistically his is a great
achievement. He takes care to step in
ahead of quibbling critics on this point by
calling his book “a romance based on a
free handling of the historical material,”
which “was not intended as anything more
than an attempt artistically to depict the
portrait of Cagliostro in accordance with
the spirit of his age and of his environ-
ment.”
Cagliostro (or Balsamo) was born at
Palermo, Sicily, on June 8, 1743. Quite
early he donned the novice-habit, but his
practice, in reading the Martyrology to
the friars while they ate, of substituting
for sacred names the names of Palermo’s
best-known “unfortunate females” did not
make him exactly popular. So he left at
night via the wall, and later married a
lovely woman named Lorenza Feliciani,
whom the “Encyclopaedia Britannica” calls
beautiful but unprincipled” , and whom
Carlyle treats with customary anti-feminism.
After making for himself a passable local
reputation in scoundrelism, he took his fat
person and his lovely wife to England
where he was elevated to a high post in the
curious Freemasonry of that time and
showed much profit thereby, not to mention
getting off with a valuable diamond neck-
lace, a kind of jewellery for which he had
a weakness. Followed a flit to St.
Petersburg and another fine rake-off, in
cash this time; then Strasburg, acquaint-
anceship with Cardinal Rohan, a little
turning of lead into gold, and more Free-
masonry; next, Paris, association with the
great Diamond Necklace theft, in which
Rohan was led to believe he was buying
the priceless bauble for the Queen, eleva-
tion to almost the highest place in Free-
masonry, seances in which he palmed him-
self off as a sort of Wandering Jew, impli-
cation in revolutionary plots, exposure, the
Bastille; next, England again, the Fleet
prison, ridicule; finally, Rome, an attempt
to start his own patent brand of Free-
masonry, the Inquisition, gaol for life, and
in 1795, a quiet death.
Such is the historical skeleton of the man
who is the hero of Johannes von Guenther’s
novel. But around that bare skeleton
Guenther has fashioned a living man who
seems to be an addition to the notable
humorous characters of fiction. The “can-
vas,” or literary breadth, of the novel is
extraordinarily large. It does not merely
include mention of Palermo, London St
Petersburg, Strasburg, Paris, Boulogne’ and
Rome; those places, stone for stone, street
for street, their mode of life, their politics,
seem as much alive as does the fat rogue
who hoaxed them all. Cagliostro, as°of
course he should, stands boldly out, bluster-
ing, roaring, snorting, swearing, guzzling,
but every being in the story is drawn with
artistic fidelity; they are but satellites to
his planet, but they are living satellites,
not a novelist’s puppets. There are dozens
of them, at least six of first-rate import-
ance, and it is one of the great merits of
the book that, though all live and breathe,
never for a moment does any one of them
ursurp the spiritual throne of Cagliostro.
One general artistic defect that might be
sheeted home to the German school to
which Guenther belongs is its wholesale
cynicism concerning the.virtue of women.
Guenther, however, though nearly all his
women are unvirtuous, evades the charge
with his portrait of the very woman whom
others have branded with that stigma—
Lorenza. Guenther images her as bringing
about the downfall of Cagliostro through a
desire to save his soul—a beautiful and,
artistically, a very convincing conception.
A fine gusto sweeps through the whole
book like a great blast of wind, from the
first glimpse of fat-boy Cagliostro clamber-
ing over the monastery walls to the
end when, half-realising, but scarcely be-
lieving that he has again been betrayed by
Lorenza in her pious and, to his way of
thinking, ridiculous efforts to save his soul,
he hears outside his door the heavy foot-
steps of the Swiss Guard coming to arrest
him, and, while from every tower the bells
are ringing for the festival of St. John,
the heavy blows thunder upon the door
demanding admittance.
A Satchel of Books
Gyfford of W care, by Jeffery Farnol
(Sampson Low). A typical Jeffery Farnol
gathering of Corinthians, entertaining even
though it does seem a pity that Mr. Farnol
is always so typical.
South Africa Calling, by Alys Lowth
(Cecil Palmer). The author ran through
a tour as chronicler for a party of magnates
who went to see the financial lie of the
land for themselves. Where her book is not
vulgar it is villainously inaccurate.
The Writers’ Own Magazine. A new
London-published bi-monthly literary journal,
original chiefly in that it has no book reviews.
Its headings rather eloquently describe it:
“The Writer and His Words; Putting Power
into Sentences,” “The Market for Light
Verse,” “Dont’s for the Young Writer.”
Price 6d.
Illustrated History, by Reginald Pound
(Bles). Brief racy biographies of leading
English historical figures, from Bede to
Lord Roberts, with line drawings by A. E
Horne illustrative of the characters and
periods. An excellent medium for guiding
the young idea into a liking for and an appre-
ciation of history.
The Golden Age, by Kenneth Grahame
(Bodley Head). If this is not yet a classic
among books written by adults about children
for adults it must be getting very close to
one. It is simply absurd to call it a child-
ren’s book; it is a book for those who have
the fine ear for beautiful prose and a friend-
ship with little things, including children
and dead yesterdays. Shepard’s drawings
are an added delight.
Dickens in London, by Arthur Moreland
(Palmer). A little honey to mix with the
recently-spilt gall. Forty-seven large atmo-
spheric drawings of existing architectural
Dickensonia, from the Staple, Holborn. to
the Poet’s Corner in the Abbey, with
graphic notes by the artist, and, to give the
book a sort of official status, an introduction
by F. S. Johnson, chairman of the council
of the Dickens Fellowship.
All About Books. The Melbourne pub-
lishers of this new magazine state that they
intend to give information rather than criti-
cism. So there are dozens of laudatory and
innocuous book reviews, original and other-
wise, and much bookish talk. It should
admirably serve those who would rather read
about books than read books.
Generally Speaking, by G. K. Chesterton
(Methuen). Humor was Mr. Chesterton’s
strongest staff, and he has thrown it away—
in these reprints from the Illustrated
London News, at any rate. Sure, there is
a little of the old humor here, but in general
Mr. Chesterton makes his controversial
points with a solemnity as profound and dig-
nified as an outraged father-in-law. The
publisher calls the collection “essays”—“good
journalism” might be nearer kitty.
The Story of the Tieenty-Nintli Euchar-
istic Congress (Green Press, Sydney). Told
by fine photos admirably reproduced, plus
extracts from metropolitan press reports of
the spectacular event. Both photos and
letterpress are excellently selected, and the
book, which is in the format of Art in Aus-
tralia, is altogether a dignified and com-
prehensive record of the Congress, including
the processions on the harbor and in Sydney
streets and the various impressive services.
The Amateur Dramatic Year Book, edited
by G. W. Bishop (A. and C. Black). The
British Drama League, Village Drama
Society and the Welsh Drama League have
among them founded nearly 2000 dramatic
societies in Great Britain, and have brought
about a theatrical renaissance rivalling that
of the little-theatre movement in America.
This excellent reference book is the record
of their activities and aspirations, and is in
itself an answer to the pessimistic assertion
that the theatre in England is going to the
dogs. The Dominions section is not yet as
representative as it might be.
Tantalego, by Georgia Rivers (Skeffing-
"“s, ay a young Victorian, is a
rather remarkable book. One thinks of
Michael Arlen without being quite fair to
Miss Rivers. None of her characters are
leal, but her belief in them makes you think
they are. The hero, a young Melbourne
journalist, had a mind which foamed with
metaphors.” Miss Rivers’s mind also foams
with metaphors, but the metaphors are
usually most apt. Marigold, the heroine
glows with the sheen of the very best arti-
ficial silk. The whole thing is very cleverly
done in a medium not usually regarded as
Australian.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Portia: Thanks, but afraid it might be
misunderstood... .C.N.H.: But it wasn’t your gag.
The artist supplied it himself... .Joseph C.: We’ll
see what the Commission has to say first... .W.F.C.:
Never heard anything worse since the dentist last
made buzzing noises in our head... .L.K.J.: Pro-
bably all true, but in that form contempt of court,
nevertheless.... Ernest C.: Rather dull in its present
dress... .Grit: You need something to 5ay....Q.T.:
Uninteresting... .G.H.: We thought you knew us
better than that... . R.A.8.: An empty “Haven”....
M. 8.: All fail... .8.F.: Fair of its rather windy kind.
. ...P.T.T.: Your most original observation is that
the sun sinks slowly... .A.AV.D.: Afar off... .E.H.T.:
Only length keeps it out of this column... .E.W.:
Destroyed. .. .M.G.0.: Good-bye, “Summer,” good-bye,
good-bye!... .A.L.A.: One is worse than the other,
but it’s hard to decide which... .J.L.W.: Don’t suit
u5....H.Q.: “Do you think I’m wasting my time
writing verse?” No; we think you’re wasting your
time without writing verse... .F.J.P.: Weak —in
fact, anaemic... .C.S.: Smart. We want more than
that... .W.D.E.: You seem to have all the essen-
tials for being a poet except the gift... .W.C.: Closer
than usual... .C.A.C.: Doesn’t quite measure up....
G.F.A.: Not our 50rt....D.P.: To hand, one zephyr
entitled “The Hurricane”... .R.L.: Your verse cer-
tainly made us think of the empty spaces.. . .Philo:
One of our New Year resolutions was not to take
anything like “Dope”. ...D.J.: What do you tune
your rhymes on —a circular saw? L.H.: Please
don’t writb any more “poetry”.... Sno: “Ode to
Christmas Pudding” arrived very late. Suspect
weight delayed it... .R. 8.8.: Content to let ’em
enjoy that joke among themselves... .H.M.McI.:
Room on that page only for matter purely Aus-
tralian, or with a clear Australian application....
T.H.C.: You don’t know the first letter of the “Mat-
rimonial ABC.” “A” does not stand for altar, but
for ’alter... .J.T.: Is it up to standard? It is:—
I’ve humped my swag for many miles,
I’ve been droving on the plains ;
I’ve roughed it in the cattle camps,
I’ve suffered aches and pains.
I’ve toiled among the roughest men,
I’ve gambled, cursed and swore ;
I’ve had my ups and downs,
I’ve been rich and I’ve been poor.
At last 1 went and bought a ring;
Oh! would that I had tarried;
The worst day’s work I’ve ever done,
Was the day that I got married.
. ...Jaswell: You take him much too seriously....
J.V.8.: Idea fair; treatment unfair... .B.B.: Await-
ing collection. ... G.j'.H.: Not bad, but too incidental.
... .Chloe: Loo Wong extradited... .F.E.: All apples
and no passion-fruit ip your orchard.... H. 8.: “Mis-
placed” wa5....1.F.: You take pages of obscurity
to express the opinion that modern English verse
lacks virility... .J.D.: Interesting but too discur-
sive... .8.R.F.: The red lines brighten up your
script, and that’s all that can be said of it... .A.E.R.;
No booty for your “conkering hero”... .0.M.T.:
Much too long—almost novelette length—and appa-
rently intended for youngsters... .C.A.G.G.: Not yet.
You require months of serious study of good litera-
ture J.K.E.: Sorry to have to reject hero who
“sat in his smoke-room with the sad, scared expres-
sion of a silkworm on his face”... .Twenty-two:
Don’t want it; well enough written, nevertheless.
....Ivomediak; Valueless. .. .L.J.D.: No space for
lengthy reminiscences.... W.H.P.: Too superficial....
A.V.C.: You can get copies from the Government
Printer, Sydney... .A.S.P.: The 1927 Queensland abo.
census showed a total, including half-castes, of
17,733, classified as 8553 in supervised camps, 3807
in regular employment, 3286 nomads and 2087
“status not ascertainable”.... Balgarrup: N. J.
Moore is Conservative M.P. for Richmond, Surrey.
He was Westralian Agent-General for the first three
war years and G.O.C. A.I.P. Depots in U.K. for a
time.... Sandstone: And still you come:—
One night old sea-cook Starlight boxed
A bloke at Ballarat.
He jabbed him lightly on the smeller
And the bloke fell flat.
The referee knelt down and hissed
“Get up, you cur! D’yer hear?”
“Why should I?” says the prostrate pug.
“I’m comfortable here.”
. ...A.E.R.: The fact that the minutes of the first
meeting were not read and confirmed at the second
meeting does not invalidate any resolution passed at
that meeting... .H.H.11.: No space for criticism of
pars. They go in if suitable, back if unsuitable
and stamps are sent, and out, per charlady, if un-
suitable and stampless.... L. Quex: Arrivals and
departures of Italians for the last five recorded years:
1922, 3358 and 666 ; 1923, 1794 and 455 ; 1924,
4492 and 575 ; 1925, 6102 and 1263 ; 1926, 3952
and 1241; 1927, 7884 and 1384. British arrivals
and departures: 1927, 93,382 and 54,805.... First
P.: A record is kept and everything printed is paid
for. Cut out and send to accountant, giving date,
page and column.... Inq.: The theory was widely
discussed in 1918 and thereabouts; the truth is that
there is a steady excess of male infants over females
in the Commonwealth. In each 100 of total births
it was 2.92 in 1917 and 2.53 in 1918; for subse-
quent years to 1927, inclusive, the figures were 2.92,
3.01, 2.85, 2.07, 2.59, 1.98, 2.42, 2.77 and 3.04.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.J.R.: Unsuitable here; may find a market else-
where.... T.H.: Soap-box preacher didn’t convert us.
. ...V.8.: With more practice you should find an
opening. Sharpen up your humor.... 11. C.: Draw-
ing poor and uneven... .S.W.D.: Two unshapely
flappers in an appalling setting... .Elfell: About as
bad as any sketch could be... .C.T.A.: It may be
original, but there’s no humor in it... .W.M.E.:
Where on earth did you dig up Myra and Gladys?
. ...F.L.: Dave was bowled first, ba11.... J.H.K.:
Your back-street sirens don’t please... .C.W.J.H.: A
punning dentist is the last straw... .F.E.: Absent-
minded Tottie is tottering home.... J.T.W.: If you
are as young as that you have plenty of time to
improve G. J.: No use for jokes about mental
defectives... .E.N.: Ghost won’t walk for your barn-
stormer... .R.G.: Which is the lion and which the
lion-hunter ?


jB/ue
Spif
r* j
,adL fc’i
Brandy
»• SEPPELT & SONS UMi'
SOUTH AUSTRAUA
3»-J
wm#
ď
'(


The Bulletin
Vol. 50.—N0. 2553.
January 16, 1029.
DROPPING THE PILOTS.
“Finding party government unworkable, Alexander of Jugo-Slavia has followed the Italian and Spanish examples, and jettisoned his Parliament.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
214 George Street, Sydney.
Victoria : 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London: 36 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4s. ; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, Is.
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: l)Oz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional 1,0 z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possess’ions and U.S.A.: l/oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT PAGE 7
EDITORIALS .. 8, 9
Economic Commission’s Report . .. 8
DOES THE EMPIRE WANT OPERA? .. S
THE FARMER AND lIJ.S FREIGHTS . . 8
DEAD-END RAILWAYS—BY CRAWFORD
VAUGHAN (ex-Premier S.A.) . . . . 8
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD .. . . ..9
POLITICS (with caricatures) .. .. .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. 11 19
PERSONAL ‘ ’ jg
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS . . V. ’ll 16
WESTERN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE ’ 14
GOODE, DURRANTS 14
PRODUCERS & CITIZENS’ CO-OP. INSURANCE 14
SPORTS MODELS—
A Cartoon by Percival .. .. 17
POVERTY POINT 17
SUNDRY SHOWS. (Theatres, etc.) .. .. is
MISS BANNERMAN’S NEW PLAY . . . . 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 19 20
PRIZES FOR FARMERS .. .. ’99
MAN ON THE LAND 'f 2 , 25
Free Service Department . .. .. 28
SMOKE-OH 28
“If I Had the Choice”
BY ARTHUR ADAMS 30
PEN AND PICTURE . . . . . . 33
NEW WORTH-WHILE MOVIES . . . . ’ ' 33
SPORTING (Illustrated) .. ~ .. 35, 37, 39
The Sydney Motor Show . 39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE .. . . .40
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER ... 42
NEXT WINTER’S HATS j 42
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP j 43
“Bracken” ..44, 47 50
COMPLETE STORY—
“THE BLESSEDNESS OF BEING WANTED,”
By A. P. Rogers .. . . . . . 49
VERSE—
“THE ICONOCLAST” (bv “Tford”) .. U
“COLONIAL FLEETS” (by E. J. Brady) .. 50
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16, 1929.
THE REPORT OF MATTHEW, MARK,
LUKE AND JOHN.
The Prime Minister’s foilr imported poli-
tical evangelists have presented their prin-
cipal report, and a supplementary one is
to arrive by post. Except for some hesitat-
ing remarks about the tariff, the document
to hand shows that the Four secured a
good hold on a very rotten situation in a
very short time; and though the essentials
could have been dug out of The Bulletin
and “Wild Cat” Monthly, it is to their
credit that they verified these statements
and found them correct. The principal
deviation from the narrow path of Truth
is the statement that the financial position
of Australia is sound; possibly neither
Mattheiv, Mark, Luke nor John wanted
either to be lynched or to start a panic
which might get out of hand.
Among their discoveries and recommen-
dations are these:—
That a . great deal of loan money has
been and is being spent on works the per-
manence and reproductiveness of which are
a myth. (Out of politeness they say that
these spendings have been done “without
adequate preliminary investigation” ; actually
in most, cases the matters had plenty of in-
vestigation, and the missing features were
industry, honesty and self-denial.)
That the Commonwealth’s big revenues
are largely due to borrowing. (Which is
true. Big external gold loans pay for im-
ports, and imports yield a big customs re-
venue in paper, in addition to destroying
employment.)
That duplicate Arbitration Courts (State
and Federal) are a blunder, and that the
superabundance of arbitration is one of the
elements which raise the cost of living. Also
the Navigation Act is a heavy burden on
industry.
That there is too much haste in building
railways to “open up” districts and insuffi-
use made of the districts afterwards.
(The N.S.W. Chief Inspector of Agriculture
says that “of 34,000,000 acres within about
1- miles of certain railways in the wheat
belt 18,900,000 are suitable for cultivation.”
As the area devoted to agriculture in every
shape and form all over the State is only
half of that, the rush to build new lines with
costly foreign gold loans looks like criminal
riot and boom-manufacture.)
That Australia should not be in a hurry
to collect and spend the £34,000,000 which
the British Government offers as a loan
with a temporary reduction of interest.
Taking the whole loan involves an obligation
to “satisfactorily settle” 450,000 new
British immigrants in ten years. It is re-
marked that this is a poor time for import-
ing population.
At December 31 the six States set to
work at producing their scrappy accounts,
some giving revenue and expenditure and
some revenue only. The figures indicate
the results of the superhuman loan and im-
porting riot which began about the close
of the war, and now approaches a climax:—
which never has much income,
±•>,000,000 being about the maximum, reports
that the half-year’s receipts are £87,771 less
than for the corresponding period of 1927.
Of this loss £SO,OOO is due to reduction of the
h ederal grant and £7771 is just misfortune
and general debility.
The Wcstralian announcement is that the
deficit is £98,388 larger than at December 31,
1927. So it is expected that the end of the
year will see another addition to the long list
ot annual shortages.
Queensland’s revenue for the second half
of 1928 is £1,074,422 short of expenditure,
whereas the deficit for the second half of
1927 was £781,199, so bad is becoming worse.
The most terrible of 14 consecutive railway
deficits is in preparation, and a previous one
passed £1,890,000.
Victoria says nothing about expenditure,
but the half-year’s revenue is £81,974 less
than for the corresponding period a year back.
The South Australian Treasurer laid nis
l?Hns in a hopeless spirit for a deficit of
£(>lS,5OB at June 30, 1929. As the half-
years revenue is £210,212 less than for the
second half of 1927 there is every prospect
of the shortage being fully realised.
In New South Wales revenue is £57,951
more and expenditure is £877,139 more than
for July-December, 1927, so the position is
worse by £819,188. The return from “Busi-
ness Undertakings” is £12,623,564, while
working expenses and interest absorb
£15,376,624. That would be a loss or dead
horse of some £5,500,000 per annum if the
interest bill would stay still, but it never
does. No cat mounts so actively.
The past year wasn’t a specially bad one ;
it was simply the year when the curse of
heavy borrowing and insufficient work be-
gan most definitely to come home to roost.
The borrowings for next financial year
(June, 1929, to June, 1930) are expected to
be £50,000,000, so the madness isn’t abating,
despite the advice of Matthew, Mark,
Luke and John. Nor will the situation
mend itself. What we have to consider is
whether we can trust the politicians to do
the mending. Where do their inclinations
lie? Unquestionably in doing what they
have been doing all along—that is to say,
in buying votes and popularity with loans
and loan works. It is not the politicians
who can be expected to have much regard
or respect for this report— Matthew
Mark, Luke and John were really called
in to audit their accounts. The people
who must be looked to are, first, the busi-
ness people of Australia, and, second, all
who have anything whatever to lose. These
are the people who will suffer—who are in-
deed beginning to suffer; the present
demands of the tax-gatherer in N. S. Wales
are but a foretaste of what is to come.
This suggests that the proper people to
see that the report of the Commission is
not disregarded are the Chambers of Com-
merce and of Manufactures and all the
various organisations of that character. But
they cannot do anything effective unless
they come together.
FLEECING THE FARMER.
Australia has no illusions about overseas
shipowners. It knows them for a breed that
leaves sentiment out of business and
charges as much for its services as it can
safely exact. All the same, there is truth
, • ~ ...
™ lxed Wlth hy P ocnsy in the contention of
these £ entr y, P ven as an excuse for a
threatened increase in inward freight rates,
that Australian ports are unconscionably
dear. To concentrate shipping in favored
harbors and levy excessive taxes for the
use thereof is part and parcel of the great
Australian congestion policy.
. Take the latest annual report of the Fre-
mantle Harbor Trust Commissioners for
example. The gross earnings for 1927-28,
it is complacently announced, were £535,502,
“which is easily a record, and £331,734 more
than the pre-war record of 1913-14.” After
providing for working expenses, additions to
asse ts (£19,081), interest payments to the
< Sta « TW «.2p.c= £97,536), sinking
* un d of 1 per cent. (£23,170) and an annual
contribution to the renewals and replacs-
ment fund of £2OOO, “there remained a
surplus of £133,894,” or nearly one-fourth
G f the gross earnings, “which was handed
over to the Treasurer for Consolidated
£ „® t reasuier loi uonsolidat _(1
Revenue - This is about twice as much as
State death duties yield in an average
twelvemonth.
The Trust derived most of its excessive
revenue from wharfage (£167,246), handling
charges (£134,322), port dues (£59,928), a
"*'?£, nS o*’ 0 *’ P j' 0 f taSe
(£18,365) and storage (£10,369), and from
a surtax on most of these imposts—the sur-
tax produced £55,324. In all 751 vessels
used the port, their aggregate being
3,448,535 net tons, but their owners con-
tributed only 29.4 per cent, of the revenue,
owners of cargo being billed with 69.8 per
cent - Inward cargo amounted to 840,319
lons and outward cargo to 839.281 tons,
Directly and indirectly the Westralian
farmer supplied most of the outward cargo,
wheat accounting for 472,378 tons and flour
for 79,710 tons; and this proportion, high
’ u , , , • ~ 7
as it is, may be expected to increase, thanks
In the splendid developments in the wheat
belt. So the Westralian farmer should
take a lively interest in the affairs of the
One Big Port. With the price of wheat
about 4s. per bushel at siding, he cannot
afford to pay through the nose for the ser-
vice he gets there. In fact, the conversion
of the port authority into a crude taxing
machine is against his best interests; and
it is a matter which his Country party
should take up.
What effect the congestion-cwm-extortion
policy has on the efficiency of port equip-
ment and labor is also worthy of investiga-
tion. A substantial revenue item last year
was “wharf labor, overtime, £26,772”; it is
explained that “Fremantle is the greatest
overtime port in Australia.” There is
also a reference to the assertion of
some unnamed critic or critics that “Fre-
mantle is the slowest working port in Aus-
tralia with the exception of Geraldton,”
and, though an indignant denial is given,
the evidence offered in rebuttal is not so
convincing as the statement that “simple
comparisons without full knowledge of the
varying circumstances and conditions must
be guarded against if it is truth that is
sought.”
AN EMPIRE OPERA HOUSE.
Melba arrived in London the other day to
find that Covent Garden Theatre is to be
pulled down. It has been a failure as an
Opera House for years, and it only paid
its way when Edward Yll.—a Teuton in
his love of music—was doing his best to
make opera-going fashionable. Melba now
proposes, in alliance with Sir Thomas
Beecham, “to build a vast Empire Opera
House, and stage a permanent opera which
will outclass anything in the world.” And
she puts the pertinent question: “What will
my dearest Australia contribute?”
At the present time opera is quite
dead in England. The reason is that the
people do not care two straws for good
music. At the Kroll Garden, Berlin, thou-
sands assemble all the year round to hear
masters who would not fill one of the
smaller London halls in the height of the
season. Sir Thomas Beecham has spent
several fortunes in fruitless attempts to
establish opera in his native land, and he
has received neither recognition nor sym-
pathy from any influential quarter. At
his last bankruptcy his counsel, Maugham,
K.C., mentioned that his client’s losses had
been incurred “in the attempt to promote
music.” The response of Chancery Judge
Eve was as English as Podsnap. “What is
the use of music?” he asked.
There is but one way in which opera
might be put on the map again in Britain,
and Melba, ever the business woman, has
had the eye to see it. Opera kept afloat,
even if it did not pay as musical comedy
paid, when it was “smart” to be seen at
Covent Garden. That is, when the Royal
box was always occupied, and when one of
the surest roads to Court favor was to be
a box- or stalls-subscriber for the opera
season. The present position was stated
not long ago in London: —
“The Royal family do not like opera. They
never go to opera. So widely is this known
that the British people, who love and revere
their royalties, have never had their atten-
tion called to opera of late years. Ordinary
citizens, therefore, do not go, except on occa-
sions when a certain reclame is brought
about by a singular engagement.”
Clearly the Melba-Beecham objective is
to dragoon the royalties back to classical
and near-classical music. It could be done,
no doubt, by making an Empire concern of
the new Covent Garden. The hand of
State, which is wielded by an intelligence
that regards the humoring of the Dominions
as a matter of the first importance, would
drag the Prince of Wales and his brothers
from the jazz shows for which they have
a natural affection, and deposit them in an
exasperated frame of mind at “Parsifal.”
And Society, and those who imitate
Society, would follow suit.
But is such a protective device fair to
the present-day royalties, who cannot help
their entirely-English dislike of good music?
And, without Podsnappery, is the opera in-
dustry worth saving for a country which
has shown repeatedly that it scorns opera?
A SUN-GOD TN OLUS-FOURS.
The culminating episode of the coronation
of the Emperor of Japan was a review of
35,000 troops at Yoyogi and of the Grand
Fleet off Yokohama. For hours infantry,
mechanised artillery, tanks and howitzers
filed past the slight figure of the Sun-god,
while flight after flight of aeroplanes poured
through the air, always, however, respecting
the area immediately above the sacred head.
The naval review drew over 207 vessels to
Yokohama. They ranged from the Nagato
and Mutsu, great 33,800-ton super-dread-
noughts, to 1000-ton submarines, while the
two new aircraft-carriers, Kaga and Akagi
(27,000 tons), shot forth their wasplike
progeny to swell the swarm of close on
150 seaplanes, attended by dirigibles.
This display of the thing on which the
Mikado’s ancient throne is ultimately
founded was a fitting ending to months of
national rejoicings, or, rather, worship.
Nevertheless, there were some accompany-
ing features which, to other than the cur-
sory observer, somewhat spoil the picture
of a semi-divine father receiving the homage
of his 70 million obedient children. Just
before the beginning of the ceremonies an
amnesty was granted to 70,000 prisoners,
but their places were almost immediately
filled by thousands of “radicals” who the
most autocratic police on earth feared might
jar the patriotic chorus with their dis-
cordant voices. Rumors of massacres of
“dangerous thinkers” by the armed police
were widespread, but the censorship spoke
and the newspapers came out with their
usual smiling morning faces.
Despite the censorship, however, 1928
was a bad year in Nippon for intellectual
rebels. There were university professors
who dared in class to raise the question of
the divine origin of the dynasty. They
were hurried off to prison, but their students
formed debating clubs to carry on the
discussion. To the horror of the authori-
ties, even the military academies, where
emperor-worship is the sole religion, were
found to be infected with the new rational-
ism.
Thoughtful Japanese are of the opinion
that Marxism, Bolshevism, radicalism and
over-population are steadily bringing their
country to the brink of revolution. To
solve the problem the Government keeps on
enlarging the franchise, and with every
extension of the franchise the proletarian
party, which in its frank moments is whole-
heartedly revolutionary, increases its power.
Revolutions rarely occur in depressed and
despairing communities; they occur instead
in societies where hope is rising. Every-
body in Nippon is intensely sanguine. The
rickshaw coolie, compulsorily educated by
the magnificent State-school system, hopes
to get into a boot factory. The boot fac-
tory employee, fed on the heady wine of
Moscow, hopes for collective ownership of
the factory. The tenant farmer, seeing his
industrial brother running around in Fords
and thronging the picture palaces, hopes to
seize the property of his landlord—in many
cases has seized it. The standard of living
is steadily rising, which engenders fresh
hopes.
A revolution may take the form of
Fascism or Bolshevism, or it may be tem-
porarily postponed by turning the attention
of the people to foreign matters. In any
case, if the Sun-god in plus-fours is well in-
formed as to the state of affairs, he must
have looked at the review of his naval
and military resources with mixed feelings.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Dead-end” Australia.
Dear Bulletin,— The “Plain English” re-
ference to the Bruce Government’s decision
to push the North-South line only as far
as Alice Springs calls attention to the
colossal stupidity of our dead-end railway
policy.
When in office as Premier of South Aus.
I proposed as part of the Government policy
to link up Morgan with Hay, and Farina
with the Charleville system. I urged this
latter line as an insurance against drought,
for I had seen flocks decimated in S. Aus.
when grass was waving like a wheatfiehl
in Western Queensland, and vice versa. We
relied at the same time upon the definite
agreement of the Federal Government to
push the North-South road through to the
sea.
Since crossing the United States on six
transcontinental systems, I am convinced
that a second north-south transcontinental
from Bourke to Camooweal is essential to
fill our empty North and to tap the enor-
mous market of Asia with its thousand-
million population. Australia remains iso-
lated and out of the track of the greater
part of the world’s tourist traffic because it
persists in its dead-end policy. The conti-
nent is gridironed with iron roads that
rust in the wilderness. Balranald, Hay, Hii-
ston, Bourke, Brewarrina, Walgett, Mun-
gindi are isolated termini of N.S.W. lines
leading nowhere. Queensland has fingered
her State with lines at Mt. Cuth-
bert, Dajarra, -Quilpi, etc. The line from
Bourke to extensions of these profitless
never-never Bananaland roads, and on to the
Northern Territory’s dead-ender at Daly
Waters, would open up a new chapter of
development internally and externally for
Australia. The Broken Hill line has shown
extraordinary returns since its completion,
although, owing to the break of gauge at
the Hill, it remains a semi-dead-ender.
Unification of railroads is more than ever
a pressing necessity, but Governments pre-
fer to spend British millions on profitless
new irrigation areas and on coastal systems
of railways that have to compete against
sea-borne traffic. America would never have
attained greatness in the days of her youth
if big-hearted men full of faith in their
country had not unified their gauges and
pushed out their western tracks until they
reached the Pacific seaboard. The same
applies to Canada. Always the slogan of
American railway pioneers was “Reach tide-
water!”
The Bulletin, if you will let me say so,
is doing a fine work for Australia in dinning
this big-Australia policy into ears that are
deaf to the call of a greater to-morrow. —
Yours, etc., Crawford Vaughan.
•
Juries in Civil Cases.
Every State exempts a large proportion of
potential jurors who, by reason of the posi-
tions they have achieved, might be expected
to bring a high measure of character and
intelligence to a trial. How effectively this
concession to wealth, privilege, and “pull”


THIS FREEDOM.
“During the last year a new record for divorce was established in N. S. Wales. Over 1800 cases were lifted and more than 1400 divorces were granted. The figures
would have exceeded 1600 had Mr. Justice Owen been available all the time.”
has operated to produce unsatisfactory
juries was lately revealed in a letter to the
S. M. Herald by a magistrate. Counsel
for the defence, in the usual assault case,
had asked the father of the girl “if he had
not, 20 years previously, lived with'a half-
caste gin.” The magistrate disallowed the
question, “whereupon the advocate turned
to me with pained amazement, and said:
‘But, your Worship, that is the sort of
thing that influences juries.’ ” And it is.
Another influence that helps at times is
bribery; a third, in these days of organised
criminal gangs, is fear.
Though, as a matter of practical politics,
nothing is likely to be done to improve the
quality of juries—the exempted sections be-
ing too well organised—yet one change for
the better might easily be made. Let
Criminal Courts continue to have juries, in
accordance with the legal maxim about the
propriety of letting 99 guilty escape rather
than that one innocent person should be
convicted. But why in a civil action should
either of the parties be allowed to opt for
a jury? It would make for shorter and
therefore less costly trials—in itself a boon
—if Judges sat in all such cases alone. At
present the weight is far too much on the
side of the man with a thin case and a
fat banking account, and the jury system
makes up a good part of it.
.
*
The ’l oice of Jacob.
The recent trouble with native laborers
and police recruits in and about Rabaul has
some interesting features. Stripped of the
sensational trappings in which a section of
the Australian press hastened to present it
—as a native rising only second to the
Indian Mutiny—it seems to have been no
more than the Territory’s first great stop-
work meeting. No violence was attempted,
and the great majority of the recalcitrants
at once returned to toil and the excellent
and plentiful kai which a beneficent Gov-
emment ordams shall be provided.
But it is sufficiently amazing to anyone
acquainted with the Papu-Melanesian and
his kind that such a number of natives
from many different districts, tribes and
even islands should have been capable of
sufficient co-ordmation to carry out the
plan as described. They appear to have
mobilised at two mission stations and there
listened to addresses from native ringleaders
on their grievances, though no one seems
to know who these ringleaders are. A sooty
Napoleon, capable of organisation on such
a scale, is something hitherto unheard of
among these peoples.
There can be no doubt whatever that
some alien feiment has been at work,
Neither the Chinese nor Japanese element
has anything to gain by stirring up trouble
of this kind. The British missions, though
the meetings were held at their head-
quarters, are equally out of the question.
The facts all combine to point the finger of
suspicion at the German element, still a
factor to be reckoned with in the Territory,
When, some months ago, a number of Ger-
man missionaries, after some years of exclu-
sion, were allowed to return to New Guinea,
The Bulletin, recalling the nature of the
activities which led to their deportation in
the first instance, commented on the possi-
bilities of the new situation. It must be
emphasised that anything likely to discredit
the Australian Mandatory in the eyes of the
world at large, and in those of the League of
Nations in particular, will be welcomed by
every German in the Territory and by very
many outside it. Thus inevitably suspicions
turn again in the old familiar direction.
' Nobody Knows the Law.
, , .
Justice Cussen has completed his great
work of bringing the consolidation of the
Victorian Statutes down to date. In JN. S.
Wales consolidation was entered on over 30
years ago. At. first it was handed to a
series of committees dealing with sections
of the law, a Judge of the Supreme Court
being in each case chairman. This system
was > however, found so slow and cumber-
some that the work was presently passed
over to Mr.. (afterwards Justice) Heydon,
who carried it through. Since then it has
been continued spasmodically. .
Consolidation of the Statutes is valuable,
but the value is more for the lawyer than
the layman. It is a good thing for every-
body to have a principal act and its amend-
ments, often numerous, embodied m one
measure, but this does not meet the demand
0 f th e av erage citizen that he shall be able
a £ any me inform himself of his duties
an d the penalties attached to the breach of
them. More than half of the irritation
which the Bavin Government has caused
am ong the taxpayers of N. S. Wales is due
to the fact that nobody knows what the law
relating to income-tax is, nor is anyone
a hle to buy a definite opinion about it.
Yet the assumption of the law that ignor-
ance of its requirements does not excuse an
offender suggests that every potential
offender should have access to an easy
me ans of acquainting himself with its pro-
visions. That it should be accessible to
and be comprehensible by the average
citizen without recourse to a professional
adviser has been in view as far back as the
days of the Roman Emperor Justinian.
Codification of the law is practically uni-
versal on the Continent, The original
German Code Frederic and the French Code
Napoleon are outstanding instances of this
system of reducing the law to a series of
clearly expressed principles and inhibitions
accessible to every citizen. In France a
few francs will buy a neat compendium of
the entire existing law.
No doubt difficulties would have to be
overcome, but the codification of a uni-
versally applicable criminal law, along with
laws relating to companies, bankruptcy and
divorce, would go far to knit Australia into
what it is not, a homogeneous body. One
has only to contemplate the position of
N. S. Wales had Prohibition been carried
at its recent referendum. It would have
stood in complete isolation, which would
have intensified the spirit of antagonism
between the States.
As a preliminary to the possible jettison-
ing of the State Parliaments as we now
know them—a contingency that gathers
probability with the passing of the years—
the codification of State laws would be at
least a judicious step, as it would simplify
the final codification of the laws of a uni-
fied people of the future. Apart from this
it would go far to advance the democratic
ideal, for the people who make the laws
should surely be able to easily ascertain
what those laws are. That they have at
best only the haziest notions about them is
another proof of the utter • breakdown of
so-called democracy.
4
Is Prison Labor Futile?
“J.H.M.A.”: “Manar’s” remarks (8.9/l/’29)
about what he calls “the two chief
weak points” of the N.S.W. prison system—
futility or lack of employment for con-
finees—hardly hold water. Prison methods
of instruction in the workshops possibly
entail a peculiar and identifiable tradesman-
ship that may speak for itself when a man
who has graduated as bootmaker, tailor,
tinsmith or carpenter, after a course of
prison teaching, comes to practise “outside”
the trade he has learned in gaol; but certain
restrictions and rules, whose long observance
may induce characteristic habits, where
dangerous criminals handle dangerous tools
that are potentially lethal weapons, are
inevitable.
It is possible that an ex-prisoner who
obtains work in a boot-factory, for instance,
may, absentmindedly, seek to replace the
implements of his craft on the blackboard
where thin silhouettes are outlined in white
paint, so that their absence may be readily
observed when he knocks off work, and
thereby indicate the source of his train-
ing; but no one would therefore suggest
that careful accounting for the tools in use
should be abandoned in the prison factories.
And an inspection of the output of the
workshops of'any of the gaols hardly justi-
fies its fine quality being termed “futile.”
The utilisation of prison labor in the domes-
tic services of the prisons, such as sweeping
and ration-carrying, is necessary—unless
waiters and stewards are to be supplied from
the unions—and a certain proportion of
prisoners must always be employed in these
jobs.
The long hours in the cells are regrettable,
but can hardly be helped (warders must
have time off); but, as in most gaols
electric light is available to read by up to
9 p.m., and a liberal supply of books is
always allowed to well-conducted inmates,
the prisoner of average intelligence is not
mentally starved for excessive periods.
The hideous and misshapen “garb” could
not be improved without adding greatly to
administrative expenses; and, although its
material is cheap and its cut an eyesore, it
is not, despite the comic artists, ornamented
with broad arrows.
4
Nobody’s Business.
Dr. Dick, N.S.W. Director-General of
Public Health, remarked recently:—
“There is no reason wdiy medical practi-
tioners should not be prosecuted for failing to
notify the Board of Public Health of cases
of v.d.”
But they never are. Compare the interest
shown by social reformers in v.d. and in
its allied disaster, drunkenness. The mere
act of imbibing alcohol is attacked tirelessly,
and from eveiy possible angle, in all the
States. And in every State of the Com-
monwealth the police aid the Government
and edify teetotallers by raids on sly-grog
traders.
A notable thing about these raids is
their freedom from class distinction. The
aristocrat amongst sly-grog shops is in peril
equally with the meanest “joint” in Lons-
dale-street or Surry Hills. A reason is that
energetic organisations make it their busi-
ness to see that wealthy sinners against
the drink laws are penalised equally with
indigent ones.
The v.d. menace occupies a different posi-
tion. No prominent organisation exists to
fight it. It is rarely mentioned by public
men or in the press. The v.d. specialist
is disposed to hide his light under some
such pseudonym as “dermatologist.” No
Chair of VJD. Medicine exists in any Aus-
tralian university. And, as Dr. Dick im-
plied in the remark quoted above, no
doctor is ever prosecuted for breaking the
v.d. laws as he would be if he broke the
liquor or any of the other laws which aim
at improving the health and morals of the
people. If there were a prosecution and
conviction, the medical profession, it is
safe to say, would suffer from a sense of
outrage.
Australia badly needs a voice to cry in
the political wilderness about v.d. as so
many voices are already crying about drink.
It also needs a v.d. Alliance in every
State, and a few v.d. members if not Mini-
sters. Not till then will v.d. cease to be a
protected, and hence ever-spreading, evil.
♦
Rural Schools.
“M.L.C.”: Neither “Country Ped’s” logic
nor his facts are very convincing on the
subject of rural schools (B. 19/12/’2B). He
objects to a comparison being drawn be-
tween Australia and insignificant little Den-
mark ; but the point is that Denmark is the
only country which has deliberately and suc-
cessfully organised a scheme of rural educa-
tion with the express purpose of keeping
country children interested in country pur-
suits; and neither the climate nor the size
of the farms has any bearing in this connec-
tion. “Country Ped” desires comparison with
America. According to the “Index” lately
published by the New York Trust Co.,
rural population in America, which showed
a steady increase up to 1910, has since that
year declined to the tune of 4,000,000. So
it is clear that America is in the same fix
as we are. Why, then, look to her for
light? *
In towns it is no doubt advisable to col-
lect the children into schools to prevent
them running the streets; but this does not
apply to the country, and school is not the
only place where they can acquire useful
knowledge. As a matter of fact, the results
gained there are not very wonderful for all
the time put in.


GPoELIq
SPECIAL • reserve
Hightatxa WKigky
NO'. IPiBT 6 Fto or-
RED, WHITE AND
WHISKY
BLUE
Gaelic Special Reserve
DEARER— BUT BETTER
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO., LTD.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN AGENTS: JAMES HENTY & CO., 499 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD., 444 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
©?U£l,J£>
RES
lap
KV
Wh
POLITICAL
POINT S
The States . in the aggregate have
shown deficiencies for 14 years. The last
trouble (at June, 1928) was £4,272,000,
made up of five separate State short-
ages, minus one alleged State surplus
of £10,500, and a Federal deficit which was
the worst of- them all. The father and pro-
tector of the crowd had thus joined the pro-
cession. By all the signs and evidences the
current year will be worse, even if £50,000,000
of loan money is spent to disguise the situa-
tion. The position isn’t irretrievable. Even
Egypt was retrieved when the bailiff was
about to seize the Pyramids and sell them as
a job line.
With the death of Justice Higgins and the
retirement of Justice Powers there will be
two vacancies on
the High Court
Bench; and it is
being whispered in
Attorney - General
Latham’s ear that
he should follow
precedent and col-
lar one of them. If
he does —though he
isn’t likely to
there ought to be a
row big enough to
deafen the prece-
dent. A. far better
plan would be to
go to the State
Courts for proved
men. That really
might benefit the
States —might in-
The late Justice
Higgins.
duce capable, men to take judgeships
when in their prime instead of hold-
ing off year after year in the hope
of stepping straight on to the High
Court bench. Higgins, J., was one of the
second batch of appointments—he went up
with Isaacs, and served for many years on
the Arbitration bench, where he' laid down
the principles of the “basic wage” and
thereby did great disservice to his country.
The N.S.W. Clerks’ Union has admitted
Theodore to membership. There was opposi-
tion from a section which objects to the
union being politician-ridden, but Theodore’s
friends were too strong. Under A.L.P. rules
Labor politicians “must hold membership in
the union to which they can most con-
veniently belong,” and the Clerks’ Union is
adjudged most convenient by property-
estate-agents, lawyers, company
directors and the like —there were 26 of
these bona fide clerical workers on the
books at one time.
After a wealth of argument the axe is to
be withheld from the 1800 acres of forest in
the Cumberland Valley (Vic.). To make the
reservation permanent it might be advisable
to declare it a Soldiers’ Memorial; and
what grander memorial could there be? The
valley is one of the few remaining homes of
the giant brush.
King Alexander, of Yugo-Slavia, has sent
his Legislature and his 25th Cabinet (in
ten years) back home. He never showed
any desire to be a despot; it is rather a
case of Daniel adjourning the Chamber of
Lions indefinitely and taking matters in his
own hands for the public safety and his
own. Alexander rules three or four different
races—not very different, but different enough
tc shoot one another in the House, and it is
advisable to keep them apart. If a diplomatic
king can talk to political leaders separately
and pass the drinks, they may get on better
than when they are all in a heated room and
accusing one another of every known crime
except suicide. Whether Alex, is diplomatic
or not is the problem.
The Prince of Monaco has also decided
to do without a Parliament, which he has
possessed for 11 years. He probably felt
that a Legislature for eight square miles of
kingdom is ridiculous, and, besides, his ances-
tors reigned without one for 943 years and
got on all right. He isn’t likely to oppress
any one, for if he did the shrieks of the
victim would be heard across the frontier,
which might lead to foreign interference.
When the Federal Government, which is
splashing up
£2,000,000 per annum
on State roads, de-
cided to economise by
taking 9d. per gallon
off the bounty on ex-
ported wine, it pooh-
poohed the idea that
there would be
trouble. With the
bounty at Is. 9d. (in-
cidentally, funds were
supplied by the excise
duty on fortifying
spirit), winemakers
paid up to £lO 10s.
per ton for grapes, the
prices being Govern-
ment-fixed, not only in
respect of wine to be
exported, but of the
75 p.c. destined for
Australian consump-
tion. Now the very
situation of which the
Government was
warned has come about
—a glut in Britain, an
Markets Minister
Paterson.
exceptionally heavy grape crop in Australia,
and a tumble in _ prices. True to Bruce-
Page practice, Minister Paterson is trying
to solve the problem by holding conferences.
Vic. Prohibitionists have begun to make
plans for the State-wide referendum next
year. Three months’ notice must be given,
and it is a moral certainty that the Parlia-
mentary recess will be chosen. In the ordi-
nary course Assemblymen would face the
electors in April or May, 1930, but the
chances are that the people will be asked
to judge them next September; in that
case there will be a clear run for the swipes
or no-swipes poll. It is 50 to 1 against
Prohibition being carried, especially as a
three-fifths majority is required. There is
no provision for compulsory voting, but that
may be rectified next session.
A vigorous manifesto published by the
“Congress, of the Communist International”
has got into circulation for the guidance
Of the Red. the faithful and the violent
It begins with the statement that “the
proletariat has no fatherland until it has
wrested the means of production from the
hands of the bourgeoisie.” Rubens’s means
of production was a brush, and the idea is
that any Communist who snatched the brush
could paint like Rubens.
In all the bitter complaints of union
secretaries about the possible increase of
overseas freight rates, allegedly through the
vanishment. of, the Commonwealth shipping
line, there is no mention that the lino was
a fine pasture for unionists. All the lamen-
tation is about the prospective sufferings of
the exporting and importing classes, which
lose big money through waterside strikes and
boycotts without any sympathy from union
secretaries. The Commonwealth line in its
last days totalled 53,420 tons net, and, allow-
ing for three voyages a year, it represented
less than 2 per cent, of the oversea shipping
of Australian ports. The loss latterly was
£70,000 per Government ship per annum.
Whatever influence the fleet once had in
cheapening freights was down to vanishing
point before the. day of its decease, but it
was a good pension fund for employees and
an exciting centre of agitation.
Premier McPherson, of Victoria, declares
the time has. come for what is described as
the unification of railway gauges. It is
really a matter of changing the sft. 3in.
measurement (about SSOO miles in Vic. and
S. Australia) to 4ft. B|in.; the 13,470
miles of 3ft. 6iu. line, mostly in Queensland,
Westralia, S. Aus. and the Federal provinces,
wall have to stand. To widen rails, roadbed,
cuttings, bridges and tunnels and to get new
rolling stock would cost as much as a small
war. In 1920 it was reckoned that the work
now proposed could be done for £5,000,000.
Now £8,000,000 is mentioned, and £12,000,000
is suspected. The Commonwealth offered to
help in 1920, and it is allegedly willing to
help now, though after an unexampled jag
neither it nor the States have money enough
of their own to buy a postage stamp.
A fine point has arisen in Queensland.
That State took to granting perpetual leases
of prickly-pear country, rent to be a pepper-
corn per annum for 30 years, and afterwards
14 per cent, of the unimproved capital value,
with revaluation every 30 years. The tenant
had the duty of destroying the pear. One
oversight was that the tenant sometimes
grew what he could on the clean patches of
ground, and then fled, leaving the pear; there
was lack of adequate provision against that.
Another was the absence of a clause saying
that the terms could be revised if Providence
or one of its agents removed the pear, and
the leaseholder got the benefit without doing
the work. Now an agent of Spanish extrac-
tion, the cactoblastus, or cochineal insect, is
doing the work. The Government has started
to revise the leases because the holders don’t
destroy the cactus and the holders say that
the Government has meanly stolen their
cactus and prevented them fulfilling the
terms of their bargain.
The South Aus. railways have again post-
poned the question of entering into definite
contracts for imported coal, and the Bavin-
shaw State Government and the Brage
Federal Government try, with eloquence and
perspiration, to arrange at Newcastle for
cheaper fuel and more regular supplies.
Among the customers who took less N.S.W.
coal in 1928 than in 1927 were South Aus.
and Maoriland (these two showed the
greatest falling off), Victoria, Tasmania,
Peru, the Sandwich Islands, U.S.A., Java,
New Guinea, Nauru, the Philippines, Ger-
many, Holland, Canada, Belgium, China,
Straits Settlements, India, Canary Islands,
Borneo, Russia and .Great Britain. In the
case of countries like Great Britain the ex-
ports used to be bunker coal for the steamers’
return trip, but now it has become a custom
to start from the other end with coal for
the round trip.
Owing to the easy-going habits of British
justice the Cuban half-caste stowaway who
made himself a nuisance on the s.s. Jervis
Bay is causing more trouble than he is worth.
He gave his birthplace as somewhere in
Great Britain and claimed the right to land
there as a British subject. When research
proved him a liar he proceeded to be born
at other British towns, with the same result,
and apparently he proposes to live at the
public expense till every register in the
United Kingdom has been explored. It may
become necessary to pass a law saying that,
after the date of the statute, a deportee shall
have one chance to prove his true birthplace.
Failing in that he shall be deemed to have
been born at sea, and be dropped there
accordingly.
Bruce’s Big Four have little use for
the £34,000,000 migration agreement in
its present
form, at least,
considering that
“the scope of the
projects likely to
be approved is com-
paratively narrow,”
and that States un-
dertaking to accept
specific quotas of
migrants are “like-
ly to be embarras-
s e d”; indeed,
“present circum-
stances in Aus-
tralia are not
favorable to migra-
ti o n.” A 1! of
which is true. At
the other end,
Bill Angwin, the
Westralian Agent-
General, has been
reminding the Eng-
lish that the
Agent-General
Angwin.
£34,000,000 is no
free gift, but a loan repayable in English
money, with interest. Australians need the
reminder more than the English.
The Wyangala (N.S.W.) dam, to be built
with money borrowed in England, _ has
already assumed some of the characteristics
of a relief job. Fully 500 more men than
can possibly be employed have flocked into
Cowra to be near the scene of action, and
plenty more are expected. Rations are being
issued, for a congregation of the workless,
in an atmosphere of heat and flies and dis-
gust, is neither good company nor easy to
handle. How many of them are. products of
“Good Old Piddo’s” quaint ideas of political
economy is a matter of conjecture. Few
farmers can pay the, open-hearted “Piddo’s”
-wage even if really in need of help, and
very few take the risk of offering less, hav-
ing the suspicion that the man who asks
to be taken on at less may be a “walking
delegate” or something of the sort, or that
a union official may be close behind keeping
him under observation.
South Africa’s general election has been
fixed for the third week in June. The
fight will rage chiefly round the trade agree-
ment with Germany, which gives Fritz im-
portant advantages. The Labor party, on
which the Hertzog Government’s majority
hangs, is sharply divided, and its loss of
J. Christie, who resigned his Transvaal seat
and, re-contesting it, was defeated by a sup-
porter of Smuts, is ominous. Christie
is (or was) chairman of the faction opposed
to Colonel Creswell, titular leader of the
party, who is Hertzog’s Minister of Defence.
The threatened amendments to the Navi-
gation Act are not disturbing the Aus-
t r a 1 i a n shipowners’
sleep. The Tariff
Board has been ord-
ered to advise the
Bruce - Page whether
overseas cos. engaging
in the coasting trade
should be taxed “on
cargo and/or passen-
gers,” or licensed “sub-
ject to the payment of
fees on a basis to be
prescribed,” or whe-
ther Australian ship-
ping should be subsi-
dised and/or bounty-
fed, or whether there
should be “a com-
bination of any of
the above means” or
“any other means.”
It is mentioned with
apparent relief that
some time will elapse
before the board can
even commence its in-
quiry, and the board
may be finished be-
fore the job is. Gov-
ernments used to
worry such things out
for themselves, and
H. McConaghy,
chairman of the
Tariff Board.
stand or fall by the policy arrived at; but
that isn’t the Bruce-Page way.
If a privately-owned factory had the rot-
ten record of the State-owned railways in
Vic- with regard to accidents to workmen,
due to the absence of protective devices on
machinery, what an uproar the politicians
would kick up! Since July 1, 1924. 28
persons have been killed and 161 injured in
shunting accidents, and two more deaths
were added the other day. The Commis-
sioners long ago pointed out that hand
coupling should give place to the automatic
variety, but the Parliamentary reply has
always been that the cost would be too
great.
After many years a Supreme Court Judge,
the Surveyor-General and a Commonwealth
electoral officer have been appointed to alter
the electoral boundaries in Westralia, where
population has shifted more during the last
two decades than in any other part of the
Commonwealth. As long ago as 1913 the
Scaddan Government decided that Cue and
other decaying goldfields boroughs would have
to go. Heitmann, the member for Cue, resigned
his seat, which didn’t seem worth 12 months’
purchase, to stand for Geraldton, where a
vacancy had arisen. Geraldton rejected him.
though it changed its mind at the general
election in 1914 ; and three years later Heit-
mann became M.H.R. for Ivalgoorlie. Another
turn of the wheel put him out, and nearly
ten years ago he disappeared from public
life. But “Silent Tom” Chesson, who slipped
into his place at Cue, has spent nearly 16
peaceful years as representative of the hand-
ful of voters there, being untroubled by
opponents. Threatened seats sometimes live
as long as threatened men.
New York’s “new and vigorous” police
chief states that enforcement of the ten-
years-old Prohibition law is beyond the power
of mortal cop, and he is concentrating on
places where the liquor slays at sight. A
newspaper investigated 500 drinkeries and
sooled the “new and vigorous” one on to 55
where the brew consisted of fantods boiled
in fusel oil and the like. It is a subject for
reflection that N. S. Wales might have bought
Prohibition, with a liability of £20,000,000
for compensation to be charged up to the
public debt, and got an uproar like this for
the money. Uncle Sam at least gets his
uproar for nothing. He paid no compensation.
“Sol M.”: I wish, for' one, that influen-
tial men here would cease from giving the
tip to distinguished visitors that they simply
must be staggered at our wonderful natural
resources. The latest is that the Duke
of York has acknowledged a Christmas pud-
ding made of Australian ingredients, not only
regarded as food, which is always handy, but
a? “a remarkable testimony” to the afore-
mentioned resources. A continent should be
sufficiently versatile to raise material for
edible duff without calling for special admira-
tion.
HOW LONG?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.
“The question cf the unification of Australian rail-
way gauges is once more being discussed by the
State Premiers at Canberra.”
“I’ve seen Australia grow,” the old man said,
“Since days when good old Parkes would
top the poll;
I’ve seen his dream come true, made
manifest,
The land from north to south and east to
west
Welded in one indissoluble whole;
Seen Canberra, that hamlet primitive,
Become a Capital, with all implied
Therein. I sometimes wonder if I’ll live
To see our railway gauges unified.
“This Harbor Bridge—l heard them talk of
it
For years before my manhood had begun.
The decades slipped away till in my heart
I doubted if I’d ever see it start,
Yet now it’s any odds I’ll see it done.
Wonders not few, before and since I passed
The Psalmist’s span, have these old eyes
descried.
Is it too much to hope that I may last
To see our railway gauges unified?
“From times when railway lines were
parlous few
And far between, I’ve lived to see the day
A citizen of Cairns may pack his grip
And book his carcase for a little trip
As far as Meekatharra, W.A.
But ever and anon they’ll hale him out
In carriages of altered width to ride.
Another twenty years or thereabout
May see —who knows? —the gauges unified.
“I’ve seen Australia move along the paths
Of progress”—thus he mused—“in lots of
ways ;
Seen snail-like bullock waggons yield to
trains,
And motor-cars arrive, and aeroplanes,
And lots of other marvels, spare me days!
Withal a few more years the gods may give
Before I go across the Great Divide.
Wonder how long a chap will have to live
To see our railway gauges unified!”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS
“Runa”: The dead whale which interfered
with the enjoyment of Christmas at a Vic-
torian seaside resort (B. 9/l/’29) recalls
that when camping parties on a Ivaipara
(M.L.) beach awoke One morning a few
years ago they saw ten whales churning the
shallow water inshore. The sight brought
visions of easy money and lots of it, and
as soon as the fast-receding tide left the
creatures stranded the holiday population
rushed seaward and began to peg out claims
in the monsters, prior to looking round for
means of acquiring oil and blubber. But the
hot weather beat them. From a strong odor
the beach ran the gamut of smells until the
population were using improvised masks as
HIS MISTAKE AGAIN.
HIM: "Oh, give it a rest! Why can’t you be a bit more contented with your lot?”
HER: “My little, you mean!”
they went about their self-impbsed task, and
the more fussy of the community moved
farther inland. In a few days streams of
campers, carrying their belongings, were trek-
king over the sandhills, their one object to
put as many miles as possible between them-
selves and the deceased invaders. When a
storm arose and removed all signs of the
humming nuisances there wasn’t a dissentient
voice.
* * H= *
“W.H.A.”: “Spiritual Specialist” wrongs
the late Lord Salisbury in ascribing to him
the sneering remark “Corybantie Christian"
ity” applied to the Salv’army (B. 2/l/’29).
It was the late Professor Thomas Huxley
who coined the expression about 1881. And
the growing approximation of the S.A. to
the Church of Rome w r as noted by a cartoon-
ist as far back as 1891. His skit appeared
in the Review op Reviews, showing the
features of the founder of the Army in ponti-
fical vestments, crowning a future King of
England. The caption ran: “Pope Booth
111. crowning King Ed. IX.”
* * * *
“M.G.S.”: He was a portly, pompous
fellow whom Nature had designed to be an
alderman and Fate had turned into the
driver of a motor-hearse. Rain had delayed
the burial ceremony and he was driving his
empty vehicle in haste to catch a pot before
the pubs closed. Fast driving was not his
forte, and as he approached the traffic jamb
he skidded, grazed a Checker, . bumped a
Yellow and only stopped just in time to
enable a jay-walker to skip out of reach.
The driver of the Yellow lowered his sash,
contemplated the flustered hearse attendant
for a half a minute and then cleared his
throat. “Say, Crepe,” he shouted, “don’tcher
know cruisin’ for custom ain’t allowed!”
* # * *
“Meridian” : Four Spanish sailors boarded
a Bronte tram with me. One of them prior
to boarding had put a small book under
my nose. It was a miniature dictionary,
English-Spanish. He pointed to the word
“beach.” I pointed to the tram. He
enunciated very deliberately “Thank you very
much.” I made dumb indication that it was
no trouble. The conductor presently came
along. A second son of Spain spoke up, say-
ing, “Not a penny!” With these two
phrases and the book 1 gather they thor-
oughly enjoyed themselves in Sydney.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The Adelaide rainfall for 192 S
was 19£ inches, which is two below the
average, and yet 2i above 1927. Records
have now been kept for 90 years, and the
past decade is the wettest of the lot, in spite
of its dry finish. Adelaide has just touched
30 inches twice, in 1851 and 1889. But
the city figures are no guide for the State.
Less than 10 miles away, in the hills,
the rainfall is about double; so it is _in
the south-east or Mount Gambier district,
but in the north there are places that would
be satisfied with 10 inches,
* =|: # *
“Lucerne Flea” : Yes, a wrong letter or so
in a telegram can cause a lot of bother (B.
26/12/’2B). A few years ago good autumn
rains enabled a cocky on the west coast of
Eyre Peninsula (S.A.) to get his. seeding
done early, and wishing’ to put in some
additional crop he sent an urgent wire to
Adelaide bespeaking two tons of super, by
the next boat. Unfortunately the “p” got
altered to “g,” and the cocky went down
to the jetty with his waggon to find two tons
of sugar awaiting him. It was a fortnight
before the steamer returned, and by that
time it was too late to put in more crop.
The telegraph heads refused to take any
blame whatever.
* 'A- * A-
“Uncle Dick”: He entered the Melbourne
cable-car jerkily, stared where he thought
the luggage-rack should have been, and then
flopped into a seat. Two flappers sitting
close by me inspected the newcomer, nudged
each other and smothered giggles. Presently
one whispered, “Dad Wayback, down in Mel-
bourne for the first time in his life.” Then
there was a diversion. All eyes, including
the pair belonging to the conductor, were
fixed on a girl sitting next to the cockie, who
was perturbedly going through her purse for
the third time. Presently the kindly con-
ductor walked away from her; clearly he
meant to allow her ample time to find her
money, or perhaps he thought it might be
in her stocking. Then it was that the chival-
rous old man from Outback rose to the occa-
sion. Handing the embarrassed one his
ticket, he said: “I’m gettin’ out ’ere, Missie;
you take my ticket.” Then he got off, with-
out waiting to be undeceived, and I am
confident he left the car before his journey’s
end.
* * * *
“Euroa”: Oxford must be kinder to public
executioners (B. 2/l/’29) than Melbourne.
Some years ago Vic.’s newly-appointed
assistant hangman came into the pub I
used to frequent in Hawthorn. Up to then
he hadn’t had a scaffold job, but had merely
officiated at a couple of floggings. After
he had finished his drink, the barlady dis-
gustedly smashed the glass on. the tiled floor.
Outside, the push grabbed the instrument of
justice and ducked him in the horse-trough,
while two _ adjacent police gazed absently in
the opposite direction. I have sometimes
wondered whether Ketch was ever able tp
level up scores in his professional capacity
with any member of that push.
“Tee Essbie”: Nobody who sees it now
would suspect it, nevertheless Liverpool
(N.S.W ) w r as once acclaimed as a “port,”
and in the thirties of the last century it had
its wharf and its Ship Inn. A contributor
to the Sydney Herald of 24th Nov., 1836,
speaks of Liverpool as being the key to the
southern country, and mentions that a
vessel of 60 tons can approach its wharf,
“whereby the produce of the interior may be
conveyed to Sydney.”
* * * *
“Mako”: All earthquakes are not char-
acterised-by sudden-
ness of attack (B.
26/12/’2B). In some
of the Maoriland
districts subject to
such disturbances,
particularly in grey,
still spring weather,
a series of faint
earth tremors will
herald worse to
come, and warn the
housewife that it is
time to clear the
pantry shelves of
jams and pickles
and stand the break-
ables on the floor.
Before the great
Tarawera upheaval
of the ’eighties it is
recorded there were
numerous portents
of approaching dis-
aster which were
unrecognised by the
few white settlers
in the danger zone,
although there was
a general uneasiness
among the Maoris.
Surveyors camping
near the afterwards
devasted village of
Wairoa had post-
eruption recollec-
tions of the uncanny
way the ground
used to heave under
them, as if some
subterranean mon-
ster turned in its
sleep, and recalled
the sudden opening
of huge fissured in
their working area.
The Maori was
apprehensive of dis-
aster, because the
famous guide Sophia
had announced that
she had seen the
dog-headed phantom
company rowing the
ghost canoe across
the lake, so the
tribe knew that dis-
aster was imminent.
* *
“S T.S.”: As to that joyous “half-a-
-dollar” ballade (B. 2/l/’29), just why
is the useful half-crown doomed in Aus-
tralia? I found England still abound-
ing in it last year. But, curiously,
the old threepenny-bit was of the utmost
rarity; coppers always took its place. By
the way, the “unserrated rim” of the van-
ished fourpenny-bit recalls a story that has
of necessity been lost to this generation. It
concerned the utterance of a Scotch minister,
thundering at the carefulness of his flock at
collection-time. “ ‘Were the whole realm ot
nature mine, That were an offering far too
small.’ Ay, that’s what ye sing! And the
while ye’re feeling the edge of the coin in
your pockets to make sure ye’ll no’ give a
fourpenny by mistake!”
* * * *
“Exon”: The author of a recent book
called “The Well of Loneliness” has had
the probably unique experience
for a woman of hearing a Lon-
don magistrate ukase that all
copies of her work should be
destroyed as obscene. In past
days the job would doubtless
have been assigned to the com-
mon hangman, but burning
books has ceased to be one of
the executioner’s duties. There
have been the usual protests,
including an hysterical one from
the lady herself in court and
another from no less a literary
figure than Conan Doyle,
against the system of censorship
which leaves with one man the
decision as to what constitutes
“obscenity” in print. But the
beak made out an uncommonly
cogent case for his judgment.
He said that characters indulg-
ing in certain unnatural vice
were presented in the book as
entirely attractive persons who
should be tolerated in'stead of
ostracised, while those who ob-
jected to the unnameable prac-
tice were sneered at as pre-
judiced, foolish and cruel. Paris is, however,
selling the book, and a few copies have
reached Australia via Marseilles.
* * * *
“Adelaide” : A genuine step in the south-to-
north transcontinental rail is reached with
the running of trains to the new rail-head,
Rumbalara. It is 170 miles north of Oodna-
datta. the former dead-end, and 860 from
Adelaide. The journey takes about 48 hours
at present, and costs £5 175., or half as
much again first-class. _ The next stage, under
construction, is to Alice Springs, over 1000
miles from Adelaide, and officially to be
known as Stuart, after John _ McDouall
Stuart, who first crossed the Continent —and
back —in 1861-62.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: After having kept her afloat
for a few months for sentimental reasons,
the Federal Ministry has decided to scrap
the Sydney. There is a certain irony in_ the
reflection that whereas her defeated rival,
the Emden, was got rid of for nothing per
medium of the heavy surf that breaks on
Horsborough Island, the estimated cost of
demolishing the victor will be £50,000.
* * * *
“Murkah”: Christmas figures in the Syd-
ney telegraph branch left all previous records
far behind. Sydney-Melbourne traffic was,
of course, heaviest; between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m.
on Christmas Eve 19,000 messages were
pushed across the counters. To dispose of
this flood two lines were allotted to Murray
Multiplex sets. Each wire is thereby
multiplied into four channels or “phan-
tom” lines. Thus two wires carried
16 streams of messages (eight each
way), and fin addition these far-tossed
copper threads were also each carrying five
Sydney-Melbourne ’phone conversations. The
Brisbane-Sydney biz totalled 16,000 mes-
sages squirted over two lines by a Murray-
GIVING HIM THE AIR.
SKITER: “I drew my shooter. And then do you know what I
founs?
FLAPPER: “That you had no peas?”
Creed alliance. From the clattering Creeds
which deal with the east-west traffic, tele-
grams poured all day. The hand-worked
duplexes, along which Sydney reaches out
into N.S.W., worked at capacity, and when-
ever biz showed signs of piling up a hurrying
Wheatstone was turned on to it. Altogether
the delays were insignificant.
* * * *
“P.M.”: The Salvation Army took definite
rank as a religion in the A.I.F. (B. 2/3,/’29).
One night our orderly-room sergeant was
called from a game of poker in the mess to
take the brands of a mob of reinforcements.
To the inquiry touching his denomination
one answered “S.A.” “I didn’t ask you if
you were a blanky Croweater,” said the
sarge, irritably; “what church do you belong
to?” “1 heard you, my friend,” returned
the rookie, in serious tones; “I am an officer
of the Salvation Army.”
S|S s[s
“Adelaide”: An optimist has found sym-
pathetic handling in a South Aus. court.
Hauled up on an unsatisfied judgment claim,
he made these statements: (1) Yes, he owed
the £80; (2) he had been out of work for
seven months; (3) he got married three
weeks ago; (4) he could not make any offer
of payment. Under pressure this ,last was
amended to an offer of four shillings a
month, and the Court solemnly made an
order on those lines, leaving the creditor to
ponder on the 33 years or so that he will
have to wait for final settlement.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: Cabled that a revolt against
Western reforms has broken out in two
provinces of Turkey. Religious objections
are particularly levelled at the adoption of
the Latin alphabet, and that for reasons easily
understandable to those with any knowledge
of Moslem feeling. The Cross as the symbol
of Christianity is abhorrent to the true
Moslem. His sword and dagger hilts have
never copied the European convention in this
regard save in isolated instances. The crossed
“t” in the Latin alphabet carries to him a
hateful significance. Similarly, no European
headstone in a Moslem country is ever per-
mitted to take the forbidden form, the ceme-
teries invariably displaying the flat stone
with the rounded or square top which is
familiar enough among Europeans.
* * * *
“Uramao” : The recent rescue from drown-
ing of a young woman in Raglan Harbor
(M.L.) by a 13-year-old Maori boy was a
notable bit of pluck and resourcefulness.
The girl and a young man were rowing in
the harbor when a strong cun-ent caught
the dinghy and was carrying it out towards
the bar. Being a good swimmer and seeing
the peril, the girl leaped into the water
and struck out for shore. The current, how-
ever, soon had her. From a sandhill where
he was mounted on a pony, the lad saw
the girl’s peril and promptly galloped down
the hill and into the boiling surf. When he
reached the swimmer she was utterly ex-
hausted, but he got her across the saddle,
and the pony fought its way back to the
beach with its double burden. The mother of
the Maori saw the whole proceedings and
by the time her son had returned with the
inert body of the girl she had prepared a
trench in the hot sand. In this the girl was
placed and a doctor summoned, who with
great difficulty brought her round. Mean-
while a launch rescued her companion.
THE ICONOCLAST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Dr. Arthur, N.S.W. Minister for Health, asked
for an opinion about a new fashion, said that women’s
legs without stockings were mostly ugly, and their
feet, distorted by the shoes they wear, anything but
pretty objects.”
Tell it not to the ripple and lap of the
waves on the shingle,
Tell it not by the strand
Where the surf-queens, the blondes and the
dark ones, the wed and the single,
A radiant band
In the lightest of garb and the gladdest of
smiles, intermingle
With the sheiks of the sand,
And the naiads dart hither and thither.
They’ll reckon it blither.
For the artists have limned ’em, good Doctor;
the ladies who meet us
For a dip at the beach,
DieolleUe darlings who dazzle and dimple
and greet us,
With legs, all aud each,
As dainty as those of the Venus dug up at
Miletus —
And she was a peach—
With a foot and an instep above it
A fairy might covet.
And the poets—our liltingly lyrical Roderic
among them —
As ev’ryone knows,
Have strayed to the foreshores, and gazed
on the ankles and sung them
Snow-white as the snows,
And the pink of the shapely and delicate
trilbies has swung them
To thoughts of the rose.
Why, Doc., this unseemly intrusion
To spoil an illusion?
In the breakers and out, lo! the life-savers
flitter and flutter,
And chaps of that ilk,
And the legs that they vision are firm and
alluring as butter,
Voluptuous as silk.
“Let the Minister stick,” one can hear them
resentfully mutter.
“To his apples and milk,
And preposterous strictures abandon
On what women stand on.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


Sephardim” : There is a society in Madrid
that exists for the sole purpose of proving
that Chi'istoiJher Columbus was a Spaniard;
the theory that lie was a Jew has now been
advanced by Dr. Gaster, a high authority on
Hebrew literature and history. His family
name, Colon, was a well-known Jewish name
of the time, while his expedition to America
was financed by a number of leading Jews.
Further proof is seen, Dr. Gaster thinks,
in his imprisonment and persecution on his
return to Spain, it being most probable that
this was done by the Inquisition on the
ground that he was a Christianised Jew.
One objection seems to lie in the fact that
the sea has never had much attraction for
the Jews and the race has not produced a
single outstanding navigator.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: One of the few historic
spots on the Prince’s Highway which really
look historic is Boyd town, a -few miles to
the south of Eden. There is a tribute to
Australian hardwoods in the remains of
Ben’s once palatial mansion. Blocks of
bricks are kept together by timber, accord-
ing to an old English method of construction,
and while the bricks have been eaten away
by close on a century of sou’-westers till
they look like gigantic honeycombs, the wood
is as good as ever. Grass kept cropped by
goats or sheep spreads lawnlike round the
beautiful old walls, as if the ghosts of
Ben’s convict gardeners kept it rolled and cut
under the fierce eye of a spectral martinet.
A dark, half-hidden creek creeps up under
the southern headland. Here apparently
Boyd towed his slaughtered whales, for half
a mile up are ruins of a hauling system that
might have been equal to the task. The big
chimney of the boiling-down works, the
underground furnaces, the great ovens and
THE OLD AND THE NEW.
PASTOE (giving report to stewards ) : “Our tennis club has again won the premiership,
our cricket club made the highest aggregate score, the gymnasium has increased
its membership, and the young people’s social club has held many happy
gatherings.”
BROTHER TERDIZZECK. “Uss! An’ ’ow many souls ’ave ’ee saaved from ’ternal fire
and brimst’n’?”
the wooden railway along which the dead
cetacean was trundled in handy sections are
still in place, but a big pittosporum has
lodged in and churned up the bricks at one
end of the furnace, and already the place
is acquiring the appearance of an ancient
shrine dedicated to religious sacrifice.
* H* #
“Magog”: The complexity of London’s
underground labyrinths (B. 2/l/’29) was
strikingly emphasised only a few years ago,
when it was resolved to lay down, an under-
ground electrical railway on a small scale
to carry parcels from the outlying post offices
to St. Martin’s-le-Grand. The excavators
came on a forgotten tube laid down to do
the same thing by pneumatic pressure in
the early 'sixties. It proved ineffective and
was abandoned, to be utterly forgotten till
its accidental discovery years later. The
London insurance co. mentioned by “Smada”
is not the only concern in the bloated city
to draw its water from its own artesian wells
sunk in the underlying gravel beds. More
than one of the great London breweries
established their fame with beer brewed from
London well water.
* * * *
“Tagula”: A recent survey of the island
of Makogai in the Fijian group, which is
used for a leper station, has dis-
closed a hitherto unsuspected mili-
tary guard posted on the island’s
highest peak. The post was a
stockade surrounded by six lines of
trenches. The garrison discovered
was composed of six skeletons, four
buried upright at each corner of the
rectangular stockade, and one on
the middle of each end line. Though
no trace was found of him, the
fort had evidently been used as the
burial-place of some big chief a
hundred years or so ago. According
to custom, the chosen warriors who
were to guard his resting-place and
escort him to a better world were
buried alive about his tomb, the
earth being filled in on them after
they had taken their places upright
in the vertical graves.
* # *
“Machete”: The latest reminis-
cences calculated to set the tongue
of controversy wagging are con-
tained in the third volume of
Viscount Gladstone’s “After Thirty
Years,” or that portion of it which
deals with the attitude of the old
Queen towards the biographer’s
father. The G.O.M.’s own diary
shows that he bitterly resented the
Queen’s treatment of him. His
account of his closing audience on
bis retirement in 1804 mentions
that she parted from him with “the
brevity that perhaps prevails in
settling a tradesman’s bill when it
reaches over many years.” And yet, perhaps,
the great statesman’s attitude towards the
Sovereign had much to do with her dislike
of him. “He talks to me as if I were a
public meeting,” she complained on a famous
occasion.
* * * *
“Sixenate”; Sydney police have just had
a sterner chase after a wanted man than the
two-mile hurry-scurry in Darlinghurst (B.
9/l/’29). They located him at a house
in Waverley, and the plain-clothes men were
soon in full cry after a hatless quarry who
had scaled a back fence and streaked through
a neighboring garden into the next street.
Several times the fugitive doubled on his
tracks; presently, hard pressed, he dashed
through the back door of a hotel and
emerged from the front to leap on a Bondi
tram. Commandeering a Car, the pursuers
followed, but on catching the tram learned
that the hatless man had descended when
a bend hid him from their view, and made
his way towards South Head-road. The
trail was picked up and followed to Padding-
ton, where the hops heard of a taxi-car
which had picked up a hatless man resem-
bling their quarry. Particulars were flashed
round the suburbs, and in Newtown the
energetic fugitive leaped from the car just
as it was being hailed, and once more left
the hounds at fault. Then came word that
a man, hatless and sweating, had been seen
boarding a ferry at the Quay, and the chase
was taken up by Manly police. But it was
at Hornsby that the elusive one was cap-
tured. On reaching Manly he had struck
across country with the idea of getting a
north-bound train at the Hornsby junction ;
and here he walked right into the arms
of the waiting police. He had led them
through Eastern, Western, Southern and
Northern suburbs, through the heart of the
city, and then by devious ways to a village
20 miles in a straight line from the starting
point.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The Australian police are keep-
ing an eye on incoming vessels for a certain
Dan Doyle, who is badly wanted in France-
After the war, in which he served with the
Liverpool Irish regiment after deserting from
the A.1.F., Dan made himself a Continental
reputation as a confidence trickster, and a
later exploit gave him a place of his own in
crookdom. After having served a sentence
in Melan Gaol, he returned and broke into
the prison just before the monthly pay was
due to be distributed. Getting away with
the lot. he left a note giving it as his opinion
that the staff was miserably underpaid if
what he had taken—about £2OOO- —repre-
THE WASTEFUL WOMAN!
CLARICE: “Why don’t you give him up right away if you don’t intend to marry him?”
CLARA: “Oh, darling — it’s my birthday next month!”
sented their month’s wages. The French
police got on his trail, and traced him to
Liverpool, where there was good reason to
believe he had shipped as a seaman on a
vessel bound for Australia. But, the name of
the ship being unknown, the local John Hops
have a difficult task ahead of them.
* * * *
“Erua”: It isn’t only on Chinese vegetable
carts that the painter is enabled to indulge
his sense of humor. On the Chinese laun-
dry at the end of our street the double glass
doors proudly announce the owner’s name,
part on each door, as “Wa-Shing.”
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: Since the earliest times of
Dutch occupation of the Indies, the recruit
to the small white colonial army—Swede,
Dane, Swiss, anything but Netherlander—
has been served with a native woman as a
regular part of his equipment.
Politely described as his house-
keeper, she washed his singlets,
darned his socks and usually
provided him with an extensive
line in olive-tinted branches.
Further, she made recruiting
easy and the soldier healthy
and contented. The big barracks
at Surabaya looked less like an
army institution than a cross
between a cr&che and a yoshi-
wara, and the quaintest military
spectacle I ever saw was the
landing of a detachment in Bali
to suppress an attempt at
widow-burning. There seemed
to be more skirts than puttees
in the crowd that landed on the
beach from hired sampans, like
the vanguard of a grocers’ pic-
nic. The offspring of these tem-
porary unions were taken by
the State, educated and drafted
into the Civil Service. But the
next time the army goes on a
campaign the softening in-
fluence of woman will be absent.
A new army order abolishes
concubinage. Although the most
moral people in Europe, in the
tropics the Dutch become the
most realistic. They admit
licensed women to the gaols o’
Saturday nights and make it
obligatory on new industries in
unsettled areas to maintain
tolerated houses for their
coolies. The motive for the
new law is the fear that the
flood of half-castes produced by military
concubinage will threaten white supremacy
in a land where the demand for self-determi-
nation becomes ever more insistent.
* * * *
“Venturino”: In 20 years of teaching
I have come across many cases of child-
slavery, especially in market-gardening and
dairying districts. But Strawberry claims her
victims even in Sydney. Last year I had in
my class a boy who wa§ always falling asleep
during the afternoons. One day, as I shook
him and asked him to dig into an algebra
problem, his mate explained his drowsiness
with “Please, sir, the poor beggar gets out
on the milk round at three in the mornin’.”
After that I hadn’t the heart to disturb him.
Similarly, in the evening school where I earn
an additional crust, I had a boy whose head
would go down on the desk at about eight
each night. “Come on, Bill,” I said to him at
last, “you’ll never get anywhere if you don’t
force your attention a bit. I’m tired, too, but
I battle against it.” “Huh!” he answered,
“you don’t have to be up at three to start on
a milk-round.” Both these boys had parents
who insisted on their sons trying to obtain
.a smattering of secondary education when
their weary little bodies were crying for
rest.
“Oxmead”: The notorious Ku Klux Elan
of the U.S., the institution with the tongue-
twisting name, the sinister record and the
grotesque ceremonials and rituals, is alleged
at latest to be a fading force in American
politics, if not on its last legs. The Klan has
had a long spin, ever since the close of the
Civil War, and few if any secret societies
would seem to have less justification for
continued existence in these enlightened days.
There has been much conjecture as to what
the three K’s originally stood for, but there
is a certain plausibility in the proposition
that they denote (on the three R’s analogy)
Catholics, Kikes and Coons, the three classes
against which the Klan’s lawless activities
have always been primarily directed. “Kikes,”
as a slang term for Jews, is hardly known
outside of Uncle Sam’s country. There it
may be found, among other authors, in O.
Henry, who makes a character in one of his
stories refer to Judas Iscariot’s betrayal of
his Master as “that kike’s squeal on his boss.”
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp” : The blind alley of the
past, which almost always developed into
a slum, has for decades been anathema to
town planners; but in America it is being
revived as a retreat for the moderately
affluent from the noise and rush of a motor-
car world. Doubtless the cul-de-sac street
will presently get a new lease of life; the
obvious. advantage is that it is only used
by vehicles which serve the purposes of
the inhabitants.
* * * *
“R. Volt” : There are other than climatic
reasons why Australia’s trunkline telegraphs
would be better placed underground. During
every springtime interruptions between the
capital cities are constantly traced to mag-
pies building nests of fencing-wire across
the conductors. One linesman recently re-
moved 17 of Maggie’s bungalows on a single
section. So serious does the department
regard the trouble that it has appealed to
farmers and shire councils to bury or remove
all loose wire in the vicinity of lines.
* * i'fi *
“Yarri”: Sarah Spinks, who had spent all
her life in central solitudes, glided timidly
into the newly-opened post office at Dead
Man’s Creek, and asked the official if he
had a letter for her husband. A search was
unproductive. “Bill said it ought to be here,”
she insisted. “It hasn’t come yet,” the official
informed her. She hesitated for a moment,
then she asked: “When do you think it’ll be
here?”
* * * *
“Jacques”: “Chevroford,” in his compari-
son of Melbourne’s and Sydney’s motor
traffic and organisations, says that Sydney’s
traffic cops “smile sweetly” when they
observe breaches of regulations. I have been
driving in Sydney since 1912, and have
never seen those smiles. Still there is no
doubt that Melbourne can teach Sydney how
to regulate motor traffic; I don’t know
whether the wide streets help, or the traffic
cops know more, or the motorists are better
disciplined, but I would rather drive in
Melbourne all day than in Sydney for an
hour.
* * * *
“Horologe”: . One of the irrational habits
that had to give way to the stress of the
Great War was the system of dividing time
into segments of 12 hours or half-days,
necessitating the use of a.m. and p.m. to
identify the period. The war day ran its
gamut from zero to 24, as every Digger
knows, all chances of misunderstanding being
thus obviated. In the very open-minded re-
public of Argentina the improved notation has
been permanently retained, possibly because
the daylight hours don’t count for very much
-—from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. everyone who can
indulges in a siesta, and the shops and cafes,
which shut between those hours, are open
from sunset to dawn. Argentina commences
to take a real interest in life at about 17
o’clock. What we would call matinee per-
formances commence at 17.30 (half-past five
in the evening) and the night performances
are billed for 21.30 (half-past nine). An
exception to the rule of the siesta is made
on Sundays, when theatrical performances are
occasionally given at 10 in the morning.
WILD BORONIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Only yesterday you blossomed in the silk of
swaying grasses
On the hills by lakes uprisen, rosy-petalled,
splashed with dew,
But to-day the life went from you as a
shadow falls and passes
In my dusty city office that was bright
because of you.
Could we hope to keep you living in the
grey of narrow places
With the high stone buildings round you
and the city noise that jars,
You who heard the fresh wind singing o’er
the sweep of open spaces,
Knew the days of gold unshadowed and
the splendor of the stars?
Did you miss the timid footsteps of the
wild things moving lightly
Through the light and shade a-fiicker
where the brown road winds and
turns,
Or the spirits of the roadways and the
hills that passed you nightly
To the blue lakes dim an’d shadowed by
the falling lace of ferns,
Till the tiny life within you faded out and
withered slowly
For the lack of sunlit spaces and the
gracious slopes of green,
And the starshine and the shadow, till you
died of longing wholly,
Little spray of wild boronia from the hills
of Narrabeen?
N.s.w.
NELLIE A. EVANS.


LATEST EXQUISITE DESIGNS IN
DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RINGS
Your selection of an engagment ring is afforded full scope at Fairfax
and Roberts. Illustated are examples of the dainty and comprehen-
sive stock on hand. The gems are of highest quality and prices very
reasonable.
£lB/18/-
£2O
£2O
: \<iW
i
£3O
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.
LTD.,
PLAIN FIGURES.
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
CASH ONLY.
df
df
Consult “Mangrovite” Engineers
Then Instal
MANGROVITE
LEATHER OR
RAW-HIDE BELTING
For Efficient and
Trouble-free Driving.
It is of the utmost importance to use the correct belt on your particular drive.
Mangrovite transmission engineers will assist you on this point and give
valuable advice for the efficient running of your plant.
Mangrovite Belting, backed by Mangrovite service, has won the confidence of
the largest and most experienced users.
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 YORK STREET (WYNYARD SQUARE), SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Brilliant “BOB” MENZIES, M.L.C., the
baby of McPherson’s new team in
Victoria.
Bramwell Booth, second absolute monarch
of the House of Booth to reign over the
Salvation Army, has been deposed. Barring
the chances of civil war or legal appeal his
career seems finished, and he can’t carry his
case to the League of Nations, not being a
recognised sovereign with a palace and a
territory. Booth I. established the throne
when he was 49, and died at the age of
83. Booth 11. was 56 when he 'succeeded,
and is now 73. In the present craze for
youth the Salv’ kings may seem too old, yet
there is evidence both ways. For instance,
Charles XII., aged 17. went to war with
three kings all under 30 and the four made
a hash of Europe. So did Charles IX., who
Saint Bartholomewed at 22.
Rear-Admiral Evans, who is to succeed
Rear-Admiral Hyde in command of the
R.A.N., knows Maoriland better than Aus-
tralia. As a youngster of 21 (he is rising
48 now) he called at Lyttelton in the steam
yacht Morning, relief ship to the Discovery
expedition; a few years later he was back
as second in command of the British Antarc-
tic expedition, and he returned as commander
after taking a sad farewell of Scott. He
married a Christchurch girl, daughter of
T. G. Russell, the barrister, but she died
young; his second wife is a Norwegian. As
commander of the destroyer Broke, Evans
took part in the most spectacular sea scrap
of the Great War. During a midnight
snowstorm in the Channel his craft and the
Swift bumped into a flotilla of six German
destroyers. One of the Germans fouled the
Broke and some of her crew actually
boarded the English vessel, a real, old-
fashioned hand-to-hand go ensuing. Two
German destroyers were sunk; the others
left hurriedly.
People have been unusually busy lately
selling other people’s papers (including The
Bulletin and the S. M. Herald), but there
seems to be real money in the business so
far as the Adelaide Advertiser is con-
cerned. If the apparently truthful reports
are confirmed the head of the house of Bony-
thon will have made a nice little fortune of
two millions out of the property in the 59
years since he joined the paper as a junior
with no better chances, outside himself,
than the next boy possessed. The sale price
is said to be over a million; and he had a
million or so in hand. The Baillieu group
is said to be behind the deal —if there is one.
Saul Solomon, of Nortliam (W.A.), was
93 on Jan. 15. His dad, a Londoner, lived to
over a hundred. More than 40 years ago
Saul was an Adelaide alderman, and he en-
tered the House of Assembly at the expense
of Tom Playford (afterwards State Premier
and Commonwealth Minister), whom he de-
feated for East Torrens. Solomon had a
photographer’s business at Adelaide, and
later a hotel at Mount Gambier.
The Rev. Charles Loste, of St. Helens,
Tasmania, scored his 100th anniversary last
week. Besides being Australia’s oldest par-
son, he is the oldest living student of Corpus
Christi College, Cambridge.
Howard Williams, son of the founder of
the Y.M.C.A., who died the other day, was
a friend to many A.I.F. officers. At the out-
set of the war, when there was a rush to
improvise accommodation for wounded
Britons, Williams was commissioned to con-
vert an orphanage into a hospital; he moved
with such celerity that the children were
shifted elsewhere and the place ready for
patients on August 5. As No. 4 Hospital it
became famous, and there were 800 A.I.F.
pip-owners there at one time. Williams ran
the place as if he were the host of a large
house party, and spent about £lO,OOO on
extras he would not charge up - against the
nation.
Lord Olivier, who has expressed satisfaction
that “the British Empire is being broken
up and internationalised,” is the only avowed
Socialist who has been a Governor. He was
appointed to Jamaica after he had helped
Morris, Shaw, Wells and the Webbs to
establish the Fabian Society. Olivier is one
of the little band of Labor peers who are not
afraid to stand up to the often intemperate
attacks of Lord Birkenhead. His father was
a parson, and he has a parson’s prim, calm
and slightly chiding manner in debate.
There is no age limit for the Common-
wealth judiciary, but Justice Powers, who
will be 76 in March, is not likely to sit again
when the High Court resumes after vacation.
Powers, bom in Brisbane, practised as a
solicitor at Maryborough and had a career in
State politics, being Postmaster-General in
1889-90 and leader of the Opposition in 1894-
95. He gave up legislating to become Crown
Solicitor of Queensland, and that led to his
appointment as Commonwealth Crown Solici-
tor. He reached the High Court Bench in
1913.
Fellow-members of Yic. Parliament are
talking of paying some compliment to Spea-
cock when he completes 40 years’ continuous
service in the Assembly in Mai’ch. He is the
father of the Parliament, having a seniority
in service of 5J years over Bowser, Down-
ward and Prehdergast, who were returned
first in 1894. Before becoming bewigged
Speacock was Premier thrice and was in
11 other Governments, led by Munro, Shields,
Turner (2), Bent, Watt (2), Lawson (3)
and Allan. If the man had done nothing
more than pass the wages-board and early-
closing legislation which squelched sweating,
he would be entitled to a niche in political
history.
Hyman Goldstein, the late M.L.A. for
Coogee (N.S.W.), left £34,249—n0t a bad
nest-egg for a man who was proud of saying
that he had landed in Australia with less
than a pound in his pocket. The amount
would have been larger but for some heavy
speculations that worried Goldstein during
his last days.
Athlete’s heart claimed another victim
when Archbishop Harrington Lees, cheeriest
of clerics, died at lunch in Melbourne the
other day. The energetic and good-natured
little man had a strenuous youth. He repre-
sented Cambridge Uni. at lacrosse and was
captain of its fives team. He was a keen
oarsman until his doctor told him his heart
was affected ; then he took to golf and Swiss
mountaineering. In Australia he transferred
his attention to the Dandenongs and the
more vertical scenery of the Speck. In
ecclesiastical affairs Dr. Lees was tolerance
itself; when proceedings at diocesan meetings
tended to become hectic he invariably told
the warring parsons that as local head of
the Church he stood above party politics.
He found time to publish 15 volumes on the-
ology, and his last enterprise was to inspire
the faithful of Melbourne to build a monu-
ment to him in the shape of the spires on
St. Paul’s.
ARCHBISHOP
LEES, of
Melbourne, who
died, widely regretted, last week.
Dr. Harrington Lees had the best of
apprenticeships for his job as Archbishop of
Melbourne. He was in charge of Christ
Church, Beckenham, for 12 years before the
war, and the Anglicanism of prosperous, con-
ventional Beckenham is as like the Angli-
canism of Melbourne as any two things could
be.
The Melbourne Crematorium dealt with its
most distinguished patron to date when the
ashes of Archbishop Lees were urncd for
transportation to his homeland. Although
the Archbishop had never expressed a de-
finite desire to be cremated he had always
proclaimed it a rational method of disposal,
and recently he composed a special prayer
for use at the ceremonials. The Sydney
crematorium, though much. younger, now
averages more than one incineration a day.
If George Herbert Wilkins ever goes back
to Cape York Peninsula he will have to get
another guide, for Johnny Wuroo, who was
Wilkins’s cobber when the explorer took his
walkabouts from the Olive River to the
Moreton overland telegraph station, has
speared his last turtle. Johnny was as fero-
cious-looking an ex-cannibal as any myall
could be. Six-feet-three in height, he sported
clay-daubed black ringlets and a big black
beard that probably furnished the model for
Wilkins’s own facial thatch, since discarded,
He confided to Wilkins that he had speared
and eaten fellow-bipeds, though he would not
admit having eaten a white man. And he
told a strange tale of a remote day when
a whaleboat full of castaways came ashore
with an enormous dog, probably a St. Ber-
nard. Who those unfortunate people were
nobody will ever know.
Some excitement was worked up by the
tabloid press when two Englishmen landed
in Sydney with a 100-h.p. car and an alleged
intention to travel to Melbourne in 10 hours.
Captain J. E. P. Howey, the leader of the
pair, has more important business in the
southern city, however, than giving its Safety
First council fits. He is a beneficiary in one
of the richest plums in Melbourne real estate;
a plum for which an ancestor paid £l2O with
some considerable awe at his own daring. It
comprises a patch of soil on the corner of
Swanston and Collins streets, where Stewart
Dawson’s now stands. The original Captain
Howey was an ex-Royal Navy man who
turned pastoralist in Victoria. He happened
to be in Melbourne when a land sale was on
and bought four lots at a time when land was
more expensive in Williamstown than it was
in the heart of the capital. Two other pur-
chasers, fearing they had made a bad bar-
gain, forfeited their blocks, but Howey hung
on. The estate, despite frequent nibblings at
it, is worth over £1,000,000 to-day. The pre-
sent incumbent was in the Flying Corps in the
war and was shot down behind the German
lines. After 18 months he escaped through
Switzerland and saw the rest of the argument
out in Mesopotamia.
When Sir Watson Cheyne, most celebrated
of Shetland Islanders, arrived in Wellington
(M.L.) the other day he was invited to
meet some fellow-Shetlanders, at the head
of whose society is Robert Stout, some time
C.J. Expecting a gathering of a dozen or
so, the visitor was astounded to receive a
vociferous welcome from over 300 of his
own people. The famous surgeon, now
76, retired seven years ago, but was called
upon to perform an appendicitis operation
during the Tamaroa’s voyage to M.L. Born
on a ship at Hobart, he has been assistant to
Lister (whose biography he wrote), presi-
dent of the Royal College of Surgeons, repre-
sentative of Scottish Universities in the
House of Commons, and sundry other impor-
tant things, but the title of which he is
proudest is Lord-Lieutenant of Orkney and
Shetland.
The new Earl Howe is best known as the
most frequently convicted motorist in
Britain. When the last newspaper census
of his speed-limit breakages was taken he
had been fined over 30 times. Withal, he
has never killed or even injured anyone, for
as a racing driver he is in the Malcolm
Campbell class. His contempt for the law
and his mysterious ability to prevent his
driving license from being suspended were
amongst the favorite gibes of Labor mem-
bers during most of his House of Commons
career. As Viscount Curzon he was Tory
member for S. Battersea for 10 years.
General Dunsterville, under whom many
hard-bitten Diggers served in the region
of the Caspian Sea, includes an old school
photo in his book of reminiscences to
show Kipling’s “Stalky and Co.” charac-
ters, of whom he was one. In the background
of boys is a young Macdonald, known later
in Sydney as caricaturist “Pasquin.”
P. R. Le Couteur, Victorian Rhodes
scholar for 1908 and cricketer of distinction
—he played three years against Cambridge—
returns to Perth from Melbourne to become
headmaster of the High School. After his
sojourn in England he was lecturer in philo-
sophy at the infant Westralian University.
This job he resigned for the headmastership
of the Methodist Ladies’ College, Kew, where
he has been for the last ten years. Both in
Perth and Melbourne Le Couteur has kept
up his cricket; last year he captained the
Hawthorn-East Melbourne, pennant team,
which won the premiership. He succeeds
Matthew Wilson at the Perth High.
“Sir Sol”: How soon they are forgotten!
A friend recently posted a letter to the Hon.
James George Drake, Brisbane, Queensland.
Southport, I believe, is the proper address;
anyway, the thing came back bearing the
Brisbane dead-letter stamp and the endorse-
ment “Unknown.” Yet Drake was Post-
master-General in the very first Common-
wealth Ministry. He was also Queensland’s
last Postmaster-General under the colonial
regime.
When Ward was handing out portfolios
a few weeks ago he selected Bill Veitch,
of Wanganui, as his Minister of Labor.
Veitch is a Scot who migrated to Maoriland
as a youngster, got a job on the railways
as a cleaner, and became a locomotive-driver.
He was for years one of the leading lights
of the Amalgamated Society of Railway Ser-
vants, and while president of that organisa-
tion, 17 years ago, entered Parliament. Wan-
ganui has kept
him there.
Labor folk re-
gard him as a
renegade be-
cause he doesn’t
believe in
strikes —so long
as he was pro-
minent in the
councils of the
A.S.R.S. there
was not a single
stoppage of
work but he
was instrumen-
tal in consider-
ably improving
the pay and
adding to the
privileges of the
lower-grade rail-
way workers.
W.A. VEITCH,
M.L. Minister
of Labor and
Mines.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : The death of Lord
Lincolnshire without direct heir to the mar-
quisate has led to the sale of treasures which
enriched Carington House, Whitehall, in
the days when, as Lord Carrington, the late
peer gave jolly parties there for Edward
VII. One silver dinner service of a hundred
and thirty pieces, dating from 1789, brought
£4577. Other articles included the second
Pitt’s inkstand by Joubert, which went up
to £495. It was Pitt who was sponsor for
the first barony, as was noted in the doggerel
which Canning scrawled on the home of the
recipient.
Little Bobby Smith lives here.
Billy Pitt made him a peer
And took the pen from behind his ear.
Robert Smith, who became Lord Carrington,
was then in a bank.
THE AXE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The High Council of the Salvation Army, after
passing a resolution of love and sympathy for General
Bramwell Booth (author of ‘Bible Battleaxes’), sent
a deputation to request him to lay down the leader-
ship.”
They gathered in solemn conclave, commis-
sioners, brigadiers,
And whetted an axe for Bramwell on a
grindstone wetted with tears.
Staff officers and colonels, from near and far
they came,
Wherever the banner flutters, wherever the
jerseys flame.
They sat in state as judges, affid, the fateful
warrant signed,
They sharpened the axe for Bramwell —but
was it the Bible kind?
They were sad but withal determined; they
tasted some of the woe
Of Brutus when he decided his good friend
Caesar must go,
Or of those who gave Richard Cromwell his
notice to quit because
He wasn’t the Man of Iron his father Oliver
was.
They were loving and sympathetic, but
sterner was duty’s call,
For the weal of the far-flung Army they
willed that the axe must fall.
With the pomp of a Court of Justice the
stage for the scene was set
When the Council sat in conclave, when the
high-ranked envoys met.
From the streets where the fervent preacher
the passing crowd harangues,
Wherever the boxes rattle, wherever the big
drum bangs,
Wherever the hymns are chanted or the
prayers of the lasses soothe
They came, and the axe descended—the axe
for General Booth.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Do You Keep Power Transmission Records?
S\ONCrt
n
$
22
Figures regarding the belts used on every - drive in
your factory will sometimes disclose power leaks that
should be stopped; drives on which the belts wear
out much more rapidly than they should; drives that
are a source of trouble through faulty Beltiug
Equipment.
The user of
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
is assured of the quality and serviceability of his belting equipment—of
efficiency, long life and low cost of upkeep.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
J. C. LUDOWICI (SL SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Tanners and Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell & Sons,
Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland.
Patterson & Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire <
Monobei
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HAVE YOU MADE YOUR WILL?
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (Limited) is specially qualified to act
as Executor and Trustee. Among its advantages are—SECURITY, CON-
TINUITY OF MANAGEMENT (it does not die), ACCESSIBILITY (it is
always available to its clients), EXPERIENCE (it has handled almost every
class of asset). Its CHARGES ARE MODERATE.
DIRECTORS:
T. H. KELLY (Chairman).
Dr. R. L. FAITH FULL.
Sir SAMUEL HORDERN.
Managing Director: R.
WALTER T. BRUNTON.
HERBERT R. LYSAGHT.
SHEPHEARD E. LAIDLEY.
COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Write For Booklet. Manager: H. V. DOUGLASS.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Western Australian Insurance.
Reserves
(including
Reserves for
Towards Unexpired
June, Surplus.* Dividends. Reserves. Risks).
£ £ £ £
1918. .377,787 10 p.c. =lO,OOO 367,787 587,882
1919. .142,781 15 „ ~15,000 127,781 715,663
Transferred to Life Dept., £20,000. . 695,663
1920.. 56.101 10p.c.=10,000 4G,101 741,764
Securities written down, £43,637. . 698,127
Loss.
1921.. 58.406 Nil 639,721
Taxation, £143,894 .. .. 495,827
Written off, £11,559 .. .. 484,268
1922 111,930 Nil 372,338
Written off, £33,341.. .. 338,997
1923.. 42,778 Nil 296,219
Written off, £58,543.. .. 237,676
Over-provision for taxation, £57,430 295,106
1924.. 21.164 Nil 1 97 „ q , 9
Transferred to Accident Fund, 1297 ) £ ’
Written off, £11,421.. .. 262,521
From Life Fund, £96 .. .. 262,617
1925.. 134 5 p.c. = 5,000 257,483
Surplus.
1926.. 46,145 5 p.c.= 5,000 41,145 298,628
1927.. 59,821 5 ~ „ 5,000 54,821 353,449
Loss.
1928.. 42,773 Nil 310,676
"Apart from Life Department.
It has been an interesting, story. The co.
set up in business in Perth 16 years ago to
compete with old-established concerns for
local risks. Almost immediately the war
arrived, and the venturesome chairman,
Samuel Copley, plunged the co. into
the whirlpool of international marine under-
writing. The results were astonishing;
within half a dozen years the premium in-
come had bounded from a few thousands to over
a million, and reserves approaching three-
quarters of a million had been accumulated.
But much of what looked like profits later
turned out to be losses, and these were swol-
len by the unfavorable experience after the
post-war boom. For the five years to 1925
ascertained net underwriting losses totalled
£234,412, which, together with the special
demands of the tax-gatherer and the neces-
sity for writing down securities, ate into
reserves for over half a million.
It took a long time to wind up the old
commitments; meanwhile, the co. altered the
character of its business from chiefly marine
to chiefly accident. For a while the figures
made an encouraging move in the right direc-
tion, but hopes were shattered last year when
a loss of £42,773 showed up, and share-
holders, who had received 5 p.c. in each of
the three preceding years, went hungry for
the fifth time since 1920. These figures show
where the trouble lay:—
Net.
Premiums. Claims. Exes. Balance.
Accident .. £202,1§7 £190,963 £86,677 £75,453*
Fire .. 46,133 18,655 21,933 5,545
Marine .. 44,536 30,207 11,115 3,214
Underwriting loss .. .. .. £66,694
Less interest, etc. .. .. .. 23,921
Net loss as per table .. .. £42,773
•Loss.
In the Accident department the co. has paid
out in claims and exes. £22,241 more than
it lias gathered in net premiums during the
five years to June 30, 1928. In 1924 the
net premium income was £44,305; it was
£240,130 for the year to June 30, 1927, but
was £37,943 short of that for the last term,
when the claims ratio mounted to 94.4 p.c.
as against 52.3 p.c. and 43.8 p.c. in the two
preceding years. The expense rates for the
corresponding periods were 42.8, 35.1 and
37.2 p.c. respectively.
This is what the board says about it:—•
Results in the Accident department have unfortu-
nately been overwhelmed by disastrous results in
N. S. Wales and Queensland. Practically the whole
of the loss shown arises on motor business written
in those two States, the experience at our Sydney
branch being particularly bad. As soon as your
directors became aware of the results which were
being experienced in this department, immediate
steps were taken to rectify the position. Revenue
was reduced in a drastic manner and other measures
were taken, the full benefits of which are not revealed
in this year’s accounts.
In the Marine department there has been an im-
provement, and we are able to record an increased
fund on a slightly increased revenue. Prospects in
the Marine department are distinctly more favorable
than they have been for some time.
Of recent years there has been an extra-
ordinary growth in Accident business gener-
ally, due mainly to motor-car insurance.
Offices have vied with one another in their
efforts to produce attractive prospectuses,
and this has led, in some cases, to the intro-
duction of novel features, such as compen-
sation for loss of use of car and elaborate
extensions of third-party risks, while the
premiums received have been barely sufficient
to cover the main features of the hazard —
damage to the car and property and injury
to the person. And competition is not going
to make it an easy matter to hold business
and at the same time get rid of these embel-
lishments. Moreover, risks must have in-
creased of late with the larger number of
cars on the road.
Here is a comparison of the amalgamated
underwriting figures for all departments
except Life: —
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1913.. £1,790 £22 £874 1.2 p.c. 48.8 p.c.
1918.. 1,142,001 739,044 48,132 64.7 „ 4.2 „
1920.. 568,347 438,830 97,342 77.2 ~ 17.1 ~
1921.. 450.434 451,634 116,972 94.0 „ 24.4 „
1922.. 229,537 259,678 95,783 113.2 „ 41.7 „
1923.. 212,701 181,079 84,065 85.1 „ 39.5 „
1924.. 162,577 136,485 64,772 83.9 „ 39.8 „
1925.. 178,664 122,073 72,103 68.3 „ 40.3 „
1926.. 215,812 115,091 78,653 53.3 „ 36.4 „
1927.. 326,481 186,809 112,228 57.2 „ 34.4 „
1928.. 292,856 239,825 119,725 81.9 „ 40.9 ~
In the Marine branch, which is one of long-
winded settlements, net premiums have come
down by halting steps from £351,4-18 in 1920
to £41,023 in 1927; last year’s figure was
£44,536, and for the first time for many
years this branch showed an underwriting
surplus. In the Fire department £156,657
of net premiums were gathered in 1920 as
against £46,133 last year, and only for the
last three out of the past half-dozen years
has there been an underwriting surplus there.
If the present policy is maintained future
results will largely depend upon how the
Accident business pans out; and, as shown
above, there is a lot of uncertainty about
that.
However, policy-holders are well protected.
At June 30 last they could see reserves, apart
from the Life fund, equal to 106 p.c. of the
year’s total net premium incomes. Paid
capital is £lOO,OOO in 400,000 10s. shares
paid to ss. each, so there is another £lOO,OOO
there if need be. How funds are placed is
seen in this comparison of balance-sheet
figures:—
1920. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Public securi-
ties .. .. £144,211 £160,115 £165,641 £171,186
Mortgages, de-
bentures, etc. 350,600 264,958 255,919 238,872
Properties .. 69,174 59,309 77,266
Book debts, etc. 230,564 59,270 65,684 50,527
Cash, etc. . . 295,808 65,662 82,240 34,991
Odds and ends 5,753 7,298 8,443 8,627
Total assets £1,026,936 £626,477 £637,236 £581,469
Liabilities* . . 141,715 170,814 109,440 84,604
£885,221 £475,663 £527.796 £496.865
•Including provision for taxation (1926, £BO,OOO ;
1927, £40,00*0 ; and 1928, £13,000).
Visibly the co. was £30.931 worse off than
it was at the close of accounts in 1927. Of
the £238,872 in mortgages, etc., £107,581
represents shares in other cos., but no hint
is given as to what the latter turn in. Last
year’s combined interest, rents, etc., was 5J
p.c. on the mean funds.
The co. is not pushing business in its Life
branch. The amount of new business writ-
ten last year was £101,531 as against
£226,365 in, 1924. Income was £28,305, of
which £4443 was new premiums and £19,742
renewals; annuities, interest, etc., accounted
for the balance. Claims took £4719 and
£6746 was swallowed in exes.
Producers and Citizens’ Co-op. Assurance.
Industrial
Ordinary Dept.
Income. Claims. Exes. Losses. Deficit.
£> £> £f £/ £,
1923.. 111,164 4,074 75,492 8,251 7,599
Funds.*
1924.. 127,788 10,083 73,728 12,886 23,492
1925.. 143,435 9,315 100,958 12,347 44,307
Freehold written up, £34,609 .. .. 78,916
1926.. 155,608 13,922 94,005 6,765 119,832
1927.. 167,993 20,139 101,284 8,144 158,258
1928.. 196,514 22,374 114,111 137 218,150
*Net funds apart from capital.
In the litter of life offices born of the post-
war boom this one is the most promising. It
began in 1920 with a deficit of £14,000 —the
amount paid (in shares) to the promoter—
and quickly linked up with strongly-estab-
lished farmers’ organisations throughout the
Commonwealth. Thus favored, it has been
able, during eight years of policy-writing, to
put on the books £15,643,727 of business, of
which over 85 p.c. was whole-of-life, and to
build up a net income of £221.762 for the
year to October 31 last. At that date it
had also accumulated £218.150 of funds in
excess of the £108,495 of paid capital. That,
however, does not mean that the whole of its
capital is intact, but it can show’ much more
than most young offices.
The table starts from the time the ordi-
nary and industrial, figures were separated,
and shows the position after making Various
adjustments outside the revenue account.
Of last year’s income, for instance, £11,500
was appropriated to establishment account—•
in the previous year £18,500 was similarly
treated—but since the lot was spent in
salaries, travelling, etc., the “Wild Cat” has
charged up this expenditure, together with
£1162 by which the depreciation reserve has
shrunk without explanation, to exes. Thus
the result of the year’s operations was a
surplus of £60,029 compared with a surplus
of £46,570 in the previous year; and after
taking into account a small loss (£137) on
industrial business, funds benefited by
£59,892 as against £38,426 in the preceding
term. Exes, took 63.1 p.c. of the year’s net
premium income and 63.6 p.c. in 1927.
Together with all that, these figures need
to be considered :
1924. 1927. 1928.
Ordinary:—
Policies issued.. 3,130 2.969 3,277
Assuring .. .. £1,679,669 £1,506,500 £1,650,380
Renewal premiums 80,673 122,270 139,217
First premiums.. 43,850 36,913 41,550
Interest and rent 3,265 8,809 15,747
The apparent shrinkage in new business
written since 1924 is due largely to a change
in the method of book-keeping. The average
amount per policy last year was £503 com-
pared with £507, £454 and £453 back to 1925.
The position in respect of lapses, usually a
fruitful source of waste in a young life office,
is heartening. To date the management has
been able to gather an average of over SO
p.c. of the premiums falling due for renewal ;
last year the proportion was S 2 p.c. A run
of satisfactory seasons and the board’s pro-
perty purchase assurance scheme have helped
greatly in writing these figures.
As for costs, assuming that it consumes
71 p.c. of the renewal premiums to handle
old business, and charging the balance of the
year’s exes, against first premiums, the ratio
was 249 p.c. last year as against 240 p.c.
in 1927. This means that nearly 2| years’
premiums have to be gathered before a penny
can be put aside against the inevitable day
when policies become claims. Better than
that needs to be done if bonus prospects are
to become attractive. Following the actuary’s
investigation in 1925, bonuses to policy-
holders of £2 p.c, on whole-of-life and £1 10s.
p.c. on endowments were handed out. But they
were not earned, so the distribution really
amounted to a gift from shareholders out
of capital, temporarily, at any rate.
At August 31, 1925, liabilities under poli-
cies were £143,233. To make the funds
cover that figure, £55,026 was added to the
establishment account, raising it to £72,925.
at which figure it still stands. Then, in
order to provide a margin against future
increases in policy liabilities, an extra
£34,609 was added to the funds by writing
up the book value of a recently-purchased
city freehold, making it £90,000. Until the
next valuation figures are available, in 1930,
it is not possible to say exactly what the
position of shareholders is; but, assuming
that net surpluses earned since last valua-
tion are sufficient to cover increases in policy
liabilities —and that is by no means certain
—then £34,609 of the £317,580 at which
the assurance funds stood at August 31 be-
longs to shareholders, who could thus see
net assets with a book value of over Bs. for
each £1 of paid capital.
Here is the position in detail:—
1925. 1927. 1928
Government securities.. £43,83.3 £51.590 £55,401
Mortgages .. .. 18,656 50,811 61,836
Loans on policies .. 4,905 11,057 19,919
Book debts, cash, etc. .. 84,488 75,644 100,411
Equipment .. .. 8,464 12.042 11,732
Freehold .. . . 2,000 90,000 103,994
Total tangible assets .. £162,346 £291.144 £353,293
Liabilities* .. .. 6,751 22,656 24,980
Net tangibles .. .. £155,595 £268,488 £328,313
Assurance fund . . 88,207 256,527 317,580
Paid capital .. .. 108,340 108,458 108,495
•Apart from premiums paid in advance.
The increase of £13,994 in the freehold item
represents the value of work done on the
co.’s new head-office premises in Elizabeth-
street, Sydney. How much this seven-
storeyed building is to cost haS not been
mentioned; the job is expected to be out of
the contractors’ hands next month.
Steady progress is reflected in the Indus-
trial figures:—
Income. Claims. Exes. Loss.
1923 .. £4,822 £3 £13,070 £8,251
1924 .. 9,884 104 22,666 12,886
1925 ~ 12,300 408 24,239 12,347
1926 .. 16,974 2688 21,061 6,765
1927 . . 18,759 1695 25,208 8,144
1928 . . 25,248 1329 24,056 137
Last year 6372 policies were issued, assuring
£714,443, and that is £285,043 more than was
written under 6149 policies two years earlier.
Claims were light, and exes, dropped to 95
p.c. of the year’s premium income compared
with 134 p.c. and 124 p.c. in 1927 and 1926
respectively. It should not be long before
the branch is self-supporting.
Goode, Durrant and Co.
, Dividends
Net Prefs. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ords. serves, serves.
1924.. 61.403 ll.ffiO 10 p.c. =25.125 7 79S 997 Rfil
To superannuation fund, £3OOO ) zz/,bbi
1925.. 51.378 11,550 10 p.c. =25,125 14,703 242,364
1926.-47,007 11,550 10 „ „ 25,125 10,332 252,696
1927.. 40.897 11,550 10 „ „ 25.125 4,222 256,918
1928.. 22.864 11,550 10 „ „ 25,125 243,107
The generaLtrend of profits in the table has
been the common experience of wholesale
softgoods houses in Australia. This one,
though its headquarters are in London, does
most of its turnover from Adelaide and Perth.
Last year, owing to financial stringency and
other causes, retailers adopted a hand-to-
mouth buying policy, keeping stocks low.
Largely because of this, stocks began to accu-
mulate on the wholesaler's shelves, and it is
there that capricious fashion and price fluc-
tuations have wrought havoc in the past.
Mindful of this che board has taken prompt
action to deal with stocks “in a drastic
manner by very heavy discounting.” At
July 20 last they stood in the books at
£620,990, or £74,373 less than at the previous
balance —over the last three years the reduc-
tion amounts to £196,656. One result was a fall
of £18,033 in last year’s declared net profit,
which was 3.4 p.c. on average funds (capital
and reserves combined) compared with 6.1,
7.1. 7.8 and 9.7 p.c. back to 1924. To
satisfy the prefs.’ requirements and hand
10 p.c. to the ords., capital and reserves as at
last balance have to earn 51 p.c. Thus the
board handed out £13,811 more than it said
was earned last year. The explanation the
directors make is that the outlook bright-
ened toward the close of accounts; and no
doubt also the board took into account the
co.’s sound position. Because the divs. have
never been over-liberal in the past, a hand-
some pile of reserves (£243,107) accumulated.
How handy these now are is illustrated bj
the foregoing remarks.
The current year’s results will to a great
extent depend upon whether the cut in stock-
values proves to be sufficient.
The co. publishes a bare sheet, so how
gross profits and exes, are moving it is not
possible to say. But much more business
than formerly passes by the wholesaler, who
has to get a. multitude of small orders to
make up his volume of trade. That, amongst
other things, has made it difficult to keep
costs in line with falling values; also it has
made the bad debts question more acute.
Nevertheless this co. has advantages. It owns
the Torrenside Woollen Mills, having thus
gone into the manufacturing side of the busi-
ness itself, and that should help. Actual
ownership and operation of Australian fac-
tories may not be necessary, but it becomes
more and more certain that the Australian
wholesaler’s hope for the future lies in sup-
porting Australian industries. The capital
required to finance foreign purchases is so
great that the available profit cannot show a
decent return.
During the year the rebuilding of the co.’s
Perth warehouse was completed, and £26,462
was added to the- book value of freeholds
(£158,106) ; also £14,783 more was spent
on leaseholds (£36,259) than was written
off. All that and other movements and the
co.’s comfortable position are reflected in
this comparison of balance-sheet figures:—
1925. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital ~ .. £116,250 £416,250 £416,250
p.c, notes .. .. 190,000 175,000 170,000
Mortgage .. .. 15,500
Sundry creditors .. 384,574 361,884 352,366
Property and plant ~ 156,408 177,329 225,683
Investments . . .. 20,582 25,904 26,541
Stocks 817,646 695,363 620,990
Book debts .. .. 265,252 307,836 327,927
Cash 15,805 31,522 8,968
Of the floating debt £202.900 is deposits.
The Qi p.c. notes, issued in 1922 at £95
witli a 20 years’ currency, wele reduced
£5OOO during the year. But mainly owing
to the heavy writing down of stocks the
more or less liquid surplus (£605,519), ex-
cluding notes and investments, was £67,318
lighter than at the close of accounts in 1927.
The prefs.—there arc 165,000 of them—are
entitled to a cumulative 7 p.c. and have
priority as to capital. Last year's net profit
was almost twice their annual requirements
and the cover amounted to approximately £4
per share.
The market, not impressed with develop-
ments in the trade, offers 19s. for them;
sellers ask 20s. The ords., held mostly in
London and by men in the trade, are not
quoted on ’Change.
Fourth Victoria Building.
Written To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
■ £ £,£,£,£,
1918.. 18,082 8 p.c. = 9,318 2318 6,446 106,744
1919.. 20,931 8 „ „ 9,513 11,418 118,102
1920.. 36,009 10 „ „ 14.660 21,349 139,511
1921.. 30,732 10 „ „ 16,935 1751 12,046 151,557
1922.. 40,536 10 „ „ 29,017 7 11,512 163,069
Premiums on new shares . . 34,521 197,590
1923.. 44,427 10 p.c.= 28,548 122 15,757 213,347
1924.. 49,128 12 „ „ 34,521 16 14,591 227,938
Premiums on new shares .. 5,604 233,542
1925.. 51,467 12 p.c.= 35,853 15,614 249,156
1926.. 56,883 12 „ „ 40,009 16,874 266,030
Premiums on new shares .. 1,155 267,185
1927.. 59,213 12 p.c.= 41,193 18,020 285,205
1928.. 67,533 12 p.c.= 44,620 22,913 308,118
This. Australia’s greatest building society,
survived the troubles of 35 years ago le3s
damaged than most, and, later, swept the
fragments that were left of seven other build-
ing societies into its basket. But, uncertain
of the future, the board moved cautiously
until after the war; since then the busi-
ness has expanded with remarkable vigor.
After a long run of 8 p.c. divs., the rate
climbed to 10 p.c. in 1920, and a steady
12 p.c., with comfortable margins, has been
paid for the last five years. Also reserves
were £20.443 in excess of the permanent capi-
tal (£287,675) at October 31. In addition
there was £77,480 of terminating capital,
which matured when the books were ruled


Coleman Camp Stove
The Coleman Quick llot-Blast
Starter is sure and speedy—
provides full cooking heat in
two minutes or less.
Pump is built right in the tank
—no chance of getting lost or
damaged.
Why Men
Leave Home
*') W' , % -toVt-'V ' l '■>
■fi i .« '
d
—two good reasons I
One is the rare sport of catching those wary
finny fighters. The other is cooking them, right
—on the Coleman Camp Stove!
Here's the Famous
Quick-Lite Lantern
handiest light for
campers and tourists.
Lights up the whole carnp.
Brighter than 20 old style
oil lanterns. Mica globe
makes it wind-proof, rain-
proof, bug-proof. Built of
brass and other heavy
metals to stand rough
and ready use. Makes and
burns its own gas from
common motor gasoline.
More than 40 hours bril"
liant service per gallon
of fuel
ODEL No. 2, the regular style Coleman (shown above) is acknowl-
edged by outdoor experts as the finest camp stove made. It is all
complete —ready to bake, fry, broil; toast, roast, boil. It’s a miniature gas range
de luxe, with everything built-in. Has the original Coleman Hot-Blast Starter
that provides full cooking heat in two minutes. The Built-in Oven and Drum.
Heater is fine for baking and roasting or for heating your tent or cabin in chilly
weather. Built-in Wind Baffles and Warming Cabinet, Built-in Air Pump
and Funnel, Swinging Fuel Tank, Big Flame-Spreading Burners and
other improved features make Coleman the leader among all camp stoves.
Fuel is common motor gas. Folds up like a suit case.
See Them at Yoar Dealet’s. Ask him to show you Coleman Camp Stoves and
the Quick-Lite Lantern. If he is not yet supplied, write us and we will see that
you receive descriptive literature and are taken care of promptly.
Coleman Comp Stove, complete with Oven
Coleman Camp Stove, complete with Oven and collapsible Stand
■ ■ 84/-
102/6
KJlE&ylnstant Lighting
Coleman Iron
n '■■■ i
The Iron with the
Cool Blue Handle
PATENTS PENDING
*ilH
Lights Instantly—No Preheating
Price,
45/-
J&
Does an average week’s
ironing for one penny —
guaranteed perfectly safe.
You’ll like the way this new
petrol iron lights ....
instantly. Just strike a
match, turn a valve. . . .and
it’s going! No more preheat-
ing. . . .no more generating
with methylated spirit .
Coleman Quick-Lite Co. of Australia
185 William Street, Melbourne, Cl, Victoria.
718 Harris Street, Ultimo, Sydney, N.S.W.
31 Bower Building, Charles Street, Adelaide, S.A.


Don’t Lose
Your Money!
MORE THAN HALF
OF ALL REGISTERED
COMPANIES FAIL.
<r
If you invest anything
at all you can’t afford
to be without
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
JANUARY NUMBER NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or “Bulletin” Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock 4- GF 4- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adarps & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. — Advt.
* * * •
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Comer Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
The modern medium of any fluid conveyance is
Pioneer Wood Pipe. Light, clean, durable and low
in cost, it is advocated by most experienced engineers.
Unaffected by rust, corrosion or fungus growth,
Pioneer delivers a continual maximum flow with
practically no maintenance cost. Send for illustrated
book. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Bums
Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.;
and at Footscray, Victoria.— Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hasssel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castiereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. ’Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
js the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree.— Advt.
m
® (■»* m
nim
« W> [ PREPAREDJj
Guaranteed by the manufacturers to
go further, last longer and uniformly
give better results than any other
paint made. —“8.P.”
"KEEPS ON KEEPING ON!”
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
mu
D
r
a o on
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
%
DT
• Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents, 26 SO Clarence St., Sydney
Recognise Your Duty and Appoint a Reliable Executor
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED
{The Pioneer Trustee Company oj Australia)
412 Collins Street, Melbourne,
is specially qualified to act as your Executor and Trustee.
Its experience of over 50 years is ample assurance that it will manage your affairs to the best
advantage. Unlike an individual the Company is permanent, and its Capital and Assets are
available for the protection of Clients’ interests.
DIRECTORS: Sir John Grice (Chairman), Sir J. H. MacFarland, M.A., LL.D. (Vice-Chairman),
R. 0. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, Alexander Stewart, J. Fordyce.
Empowered by Special Acts of Parliament to operate in the States
of New South Wales and Victoria.
CHAS. R. SAfTBKRT. General Manager V. G. AVATSON. Manager.
off. It was immediately replaced by a new
issue to the National Mutual Life of 4SOO
shares on which £95,260, including £9545
of share premiums, is to be paid. That will
make paid capital £373,090, and a 12 p.c.
div. will call for £22,762 less than was
netted last year.
The position of shareholders is becoming
steadily more attractive. After allowing for
12 p.c. on the temporary capital, the balance
of last year’s net earnings was 20 p.c. on
the permanent capital compared with 18.2,
17.2, 17.4, 17.1 and 15.6 p.c. back to 1923.
Much of the society’s splendid progress is
due to its association with the big mutual
life office which is the largest shareholder,
and also provides a fine volume of deposits.
The latter have grown £607,094 in the last
eight years, reaching £1,049,065 at October
31. Thus the society has a standing different
from most others, and policy-holders in the
life office gain something from the associa-
tion, too.
The comparison of balance-sheet figures
illustrates the remarkable expansion, and
discloses the co.’s sound position :
1920. 1927. 1928.
Permanent capital .. £115,070 £287,675 £287,670
Investing capital .. 31,567 77,480* 84 152*
Deposits, etc. .. 441,971 1,078,473 1,049,065
Advances, etc. . . 679,851 1,712,041 1,707,781
Freeholds . . .. 40,396 40,433 40,400
Cash, etc 17,925 292 8,187
*lneludin'g interest credited.
The amount out on mortgage, etc., was
slightly lower than at the previous balance,
but the mean amount thus employed during
the year was £1,725,556, spread over 3822
loans, giving an average of £447 each. A
widespread, sound and very satisfactory in-
vestment, the chairman says. At October
31 assets totalled £1,756,369, so, after allow-
ing for the final div. (£27,359), they would
have to realise less than 62 p.c. of their book
value before depositors’ money would be in
danger.
The visible backing for each fully-paid £5
permanent share is £lO 7s. Id. in net tan-
gibles; there is some hidden strength in the
freehold item, in at £40,000. The scrip is
tightly held; buyers at £7 10s., of course,
fail to attract sellers. At that price the re-
turn is 8 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis.
Possible Life Co. Mergers.
Anxious to discover a way out of the
difficult situation into which it has got, the
Commonwealth General Assurance Corp.,
Ltd., has been flirting with the .Common-
wealth Life (Amalgamated) Assurances,
Ltd., and the latter is very seriously con-
sidering the proposals. Just what these
are the “Wild Cat” does not know, but it
is anxious to see that both lots of policy-
holders and shareholders get a square deal.
Rumor is that the deal is to be put through
on a net asset basis plus one year’s premium
income for goodwill; payment to be made in
shares.
Presumably the idea, or part of the idea,
behind the present negotiations is salvation,
from the effects of the besetting sin of extra-
vagance—a sin which, of course, can lead to
only one end, and that a bad one. To that
extent the idea is good. But there are other
things to be considered; amongst them are
the risks and benefits (if any) of policy-
holders and shareholders in the cos. con-
cerned. In other w r ords, that neither too
much nor too little is paid for any block of
insurance that might be taken over.
Some queer things have been done in the
way of insurance purchases of recent years.
For instance, one young office paid a sum
running into five figures, or thereabouts, for
a block of industrial business which one of
the older offices had refused except at a
heavy discount because on the premiums
charged it would not be able to make a profit
out of the business. That raises the ques-
tion, Who compiled the premiums? The
“Wild Cat” does not know, but it has heard
of an instance where premium rates were
arrived at by taking the prospectuses of the
older offices and clipping 6d. or Is. off the
rate in some of their tables. With these
and other possible pitfalls in the path the
necessity for expert advice is obvious.
The first to endeavor in recent days to
lighten their burdens by amalgamation were
the Commonwealth Life and the Citizens
and Graziers. Their respective businesses
were taken over by a new co., Common-
wealth Life (Amalgamated) Assurances, on
a net asset basis plus one year’s premium
.income for goodwill. Thus the Amalgamated
Co. paid the two older cos., each of which
continues to function as a holding concern,
£129,192 (in shares), of which £96,422
went to the Commonwealth Co. and
£32,770 to the Citizens and Graziers. The
latter co. also received an extra £lB,OOO odd
(in shares) for the future profits of its
Queensland business. That made paid capi-
tal in the Amalgamated Co. £149.415 in
fully paids at Sept. 30, 1928. At Dec. 31,
1926, paid capital in the Commonwealth
Co_. was £141,159 in fully paids; it was
£155,504 in the Citizens and Graziers, whose
shareholders were then liable for a further
£121,779 of uncalled and £5905 of unpaid
capital. Hence their deep concern as to
the soundness or otherwise of any deal, or
prospective deal, by the Amalgamated Co.
Here is an interesting comparison of
balance-sheet figures, the last published, of
the two cos. now talking about welding
their businesses.
Common-
wealth Life Common-
(Amalga- wealth
mated) General
30/9/’2B. 31/12/’27.
Government securities .. £87,035 £55,410
Loans on mortgage . . 12,439 15,277
Cash and deposits .. . . 4,714 5,214
Loans on policies .. .. 700 1,371
Book debts.. .. .. 8,110 3,660
Shares in other cos. .. 30,991
Equipment .. . . . . 9,279 2,161
Total tangible assets . . £122,877 £114,048
Sundry creditors .. . . 6,204 3,999
Net tangible assets ..£116,673 £110,085
Life fund 89,130 137,188
£27,543 £27,103*
Paid capital .. .. 149,415 93,966
Net premiums:—
Ordinary .. . . 48,932 21,540
Industrial, etc. .. . . 71,990 54,936
•Deficiency.
In the eight years to Dec. 31, 1927, the
Commonwealth General had gone through
the whole of the £93,966 put up by share-
holders ; and £27,103 of policy-holders’ money
besides does not appear to be represented
by tangible assets. It. then had £59,877 of
uncalled capital. If the whole of that could
be got in, it is doubtful whether the net
tangible assets would then exceed the liabili-
ties under policies at Dec. 31 last. So far
as shareholders are concerned, the position
looks hopeless. For the five years to Dec.
31, 1927, its Ordinary life business was going
down hill at an alarming rate. In the Indus-
trial branch the figures are expanding, but
it is doubtful whether much, if any, real
progress has been made. Moreover, many of
the Industrial policies taken over from the
Life Insurance Co. of Australia, Co-op. and
Australian Workers’ Co-op. four or five
years ago will probably become claims within
a year or two, unless the co. has succeeded
in pushing maturities further into the future.
The position in the Amalgamated Co. is
better than in the Commonwealth General,
but that does not mean much. It requires
very careful nursing if policy-holders and
shareholders are to get any benefits out of
the business.
Castlemaine Brewery (Melb.).
To Re- Re-
Sept:., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 8,703 6 p.c. = 5,625 3078 70,305
1919.. 9,549 7 „ „ 6,562 2987 73,022
Recoveries 3075 76,097
1920.. 9,446 8 p.c. 7,500 1946 78,043
Recoveries 2562 80,605
1921.. 11,033 14 p.c. = 13,125 78,513
Additions to reserves ..£22,679 101,192
Reserves capitalised ..£13,791 87,401
1922.. 17,933 10 p.c. = 12,656 5277 92,678
Reserves capitalised ..£53,796 38,882
1923.. 21,971 12ip.c.= 17,031 4940 43,822
1924.. 23,326 10 „ „ 17,500 5826 49,648
1925.. 24,552 12.8„ „ 22,500 2052 51,700
1926.. 29,508 28.5„ „ 50,000 31,208
1927.. 24,609 14.3„ „ 25,000 30,817
1928.. 24,365 14.3„ „ 25,000 30,182
This is one of the cos. whose breweries
were included in the big Carlton and United
merger of 20 years ago, shares being issued
in payment for the assets taken over. For
a long time the Castlemaine, left with its
idle brewery premises and numerous hotel
and other properties, struggled on, paying
moderate divs. on its written-down capital
and carrying a heavy load of debt. It was
not until after the war, when the board
rapidly unloaded, wiped out the debt and
capitalised £67.587 of reserves, making paid
capital £175,000, that the position became
attractive. Over the last half-dozen years
shareholders have averaged 15.4 p.c., includ-
ing a special cash distribution of 2s. 6d.
per share from reserves in 1926, as against
an average of 8.3 p.c. for the preceding six
years.
For the last three years distributions have
been slightly in excess of the disclosed net
earnings. But too much importance need
not be attached to that. The factor which
most influences the position nowadays is
the co.’s holding in the C.U.B. This com-
prises 117,414 shares, of which 102,500 are
ords. and the balance prefs. Some of the
latter were bought at a small premium, hence,
the lot stand in the books at £119,861.
The next comparison shows what the co.’s
investments turn in :
C.U.B. Interest, C.U.B. Interest,
Div. etc. Div. etc.
1919.. £8,788 £8,045 I 1924.. £17,402 £8,354
1920.. 11,860 8,524 1925.. 18,895 8,081
1921.. 11,894 8,778 I 1926.. 20,388 7,613
1922.. 11,974 10,753 1 1927.. 21,809 5,605
1923.. 17,355 7,635 | 1928.. 21,788 5,210
Last year the C.U.B. netted £455,920,
handed out an all-round 171 P-c. on its
£1,950,000 of paid capital, and then sent
£104,670 to reserves, making the visible pile
£1,177,173 at June 30 last, subject to
£BOO,OOO originally paid for the goodwill,
etc., of the amalgamated businesses. What the
inner strength is can only be guessed at; it
is suspected of being substantial. Castle-
maine’s share of last year’s undistributed
profits in the operating co. was £5OOO odd,
so that actually the 14.3 p.c. div. was more
than earned.
The next comparison shows the co.’s snug
position and the bic changes that have
taken place since 1917:
1917. 1924. 1927. 1928.
Debentures ..£39,483
Mortgages. . ~ 10,622
Other debts .. 16,443 £7lO £2ll £2OB
Properties.. .. 118,506 10,995 13,225 13,184
Advances, etc. .. 3,402 47,913 26,531 24,316
Shares in combine 82,000 119,805 119,861 119,861
Cash, etc 443 55,393 58,912 60,529
Advances, etc., mostly represent balances
owing on the sale of old properties; the sole
survivor of these is the brewery premises,
etc., in at £13,184. Of the £60,529 of cash,
etc., £47,413 is in public securities and
£ll,OOO on fixed deposit. The co. is under
no necessity to maintain such a strong liquid
position, and, no doubt, the board will' later
use the money now in low interest-bearing
securities to better advantage.
For the operating co. the immediate out-
look is one of bigger figures, notwithstanding
that next year a poll will be taken on the
liquor question in Vic. It seems unlikely
that the trade will be interfered with if
recent decisions at the polls in other States
can be accepted as a guide, so the market
for brewery scrip is undisturbed.
This co.’s ,17s. 6d. paid shares are priced
at 38s. 6d.; the return at that figure being
6.5 p.c. on a 14.3 p.c. div. basis. The back-
ing exhibited in the sheet amounts to 3s. per
share. There is another 6s. lid. per share
in Castlemaine’s proportion of C.U.B.’s
visible lay-by.
.“Tuppence” : Other men besides “Up North”
(B. 14/11/’2B) hold the idea that diamonds
are to be found in Queensland. One of them,
Harry Brandon, used to work a show in the
Georgina River, below Urandangie and on
Roxborough station. He had tons of faith
and a few pinheads of things which he swore
were diamonds and which, at least, would cut
glass. They were got in a blue-clay shale-
formation.
* * * *
“A.” : A frequent subject of debate between
drillers on the Roma (Q.) oilfield is whether
the rotary or percussion drill is the better
plant. On the South American oilfields the
percussion method is preferred to the rotary.
Even in the Californian fields both rotary
and percussion plants are used; the per-
cussion plant is regarded as preferable in
very hard strata. It is the cheaper article
both to buy and work.
* * * *
The improvement at Freney’s has caused
promoters of oil ventures to re-appear in
the West. One small flotation has been
successful, and others are talked of. Specu-
lators should remember that some districts
have been pronounced quite hopeless.
* * * *
Westralia’s gold yield for 1928 was
15,0000 z. less than that for 1927 and about
44,0000 z. short of 1926’5. No new mine of
any importance was opened up during last
year, and as several of the principal pro-
ducers do not look as well as they did a
year ago the prospect for 1929 is not bright.
Returns from Wiluna may, however, break
the fall in 1930. Several old goldmines were
worked during the year with varying success.
One, the 0.K., at Norseman, recently yielded
a 2oz. crushing. This show was for some
years the property of the Gt. Boulder Co.,
which transported the ore to the Boulder
mill for treatment. The reef, however, was
considered too small and patchy to persevere
with. A local syndicate has since extracted
a few thousands from it.
* t- * *
Boulder Perseverance board is whooping
about the anticipated success of a modified
bromo-cyanide process, which, when a new
plant costing £20,000 to £25,000 is erected,
is to reduce costs to under 10s. a ton. But
other cos. on the Kalgoorlie field are already
treating stuff at about the figure mentioned.
The question arises, therefore, whether the
outlay on the new plant is warranted.
* * * ■*
Tears ago an old prospector spoke of a
beach in Nor’-Westralia where the sands
were worth ’weights to the dish, and among
his possessions was a rough plan of the
locality. Now the public is being asked to
come in and see if there is anything in the
rather vague yarn.
* * * *
Malayan tin returns for December gener-
ally show improvement on the previous
month’s output despite lost time for holidays.
Better recoveries were needed with the price
of tin down to the £220 mark at the close of
the year; it was at £224 last week.
The Austral Malay group seems to have
marked time, turnover and recoveries being
on the short side. Kamunting dropped fr,om
November’s 112,000 yards and 54 tons of
t.o. to 52.000 yards and 211 tons —this from
No. 2 dredge only. Average recoveries
dropped from i.oBlb. to .921 b., the quarter’s
figure being. .961 b. to the yard, as against
1.191 b. for the previous quarter. Costs
(8s sd. per yard) were higher than usual, as
might be expected with the small output.
Asam dug 78,000 for 17 tons, another drop
on the previous month’s output, which was
23} tons from 103,000 yards, but the average,
.491 b., remained the same. The quarter’s
average was ,491 b. compared with the .601 b.
of the previous three months. Costs for Dec.
were 6d., an advance on this co.’s usually
low average. Ulu Yam, with 101,000 yards
for 20} tons, had the biggest turnover of the
group, while the average, .451 b., was an
advance on November’s figures. The quar-
terly yardage dropped from .521 b. to .451 b.;
costs were normal at 4.7 d. Tliabawleik, which
had recovered high values for the first two
months of the quarter, dug 68,500 yards for
25} tons, the average being ,851 b., compared
with well over a pound for October and
November. The quarter’s average runs out
at 1.471 b., as against I.lBlb. for the third
quarter of the year. Costs, always high in
this company, were 11.3 d., a considerable
drop.


SPORTS MODELS.
“A feature of the Sydney Motor Show is the variety of sports models.”
The artist discovers a few of them of both sexes.
Poverty
point
Jean Armstrong (Shepheard’s, Cairo) :
Torn between ruthless determination and
curiosity to see for myself, I am in Egypt, the
melting-pot for all players, brilliant or other-
wise. Blundering along with our company
are Anna Pavlova, Carter the Great, Bob
Barlow, the Hartmans, Ford and Aldous,
Louie Fuller, Thos. Atkins, several French
opera companies and Handy’s Circus. A
complete reconstruction of the life of the
period is all that is necessary here. “Give
us war,” is _ the fervent prayer in Egypt.
The skill with which the Aussies rollick-
ingly jested with money here has left memo-
ries. _ Personally, I would not advise any
inquiries for Egypt; gloom has spread its
wings over every show I have seen here; it’s
squeeze from landing to leaving—in fact, its
“L” throughout. Cherpino’s Follies, the com-
pany of 12 Russians that I am “publicity”
for, have gone through China, Japan and
India, and if the audiences here are really
gluttons for thrills we won’t cheat ’em. I
met a Bedouin guide here, one “Moses,” who
is anxious to coo-ee to Australia. He says
that on account of his aptness in learning
‘Tipperary” his title was conferred on him
by a Major Langley at Tel-el-Kebir.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: The Lynch bellringers,
who toured the world with a lightsome enter-
tainment, are not the only chiming Lynches.
In the more serious business of making music
on church bells, Henry Lynch, now 75 years
old, established himself as bellringer of All
Saints’, Bathurst, 45 years ago. He taught
his whole family—three sons and four daugh-
tors —the art, and one of them, Horace, be-
came bellringer at St. John’s, Parramatta.
When Horace, who is in the railway service,
was transferred to Dubbo, he immediately
began to ring the peals there; while his son,
Max, although only a lad, took over the
Parramatta ringing. At .Christmas grand-
father, father and son, assisted by sundry
of their relations, pealed out the Christmas
hymns from the bells of their wide-scattered
churches.
Stuart Doyle (Union Theatres) : “O. Kay”
(B. 2/l/’29) is hopelessly out in stating that
the Steele Rudd film, “Romance of Runni-
bede,” saw only two States and was not
boosted. It was shown in Brisbane, Adel-
aide, Hobart, Perth and Sydney, as well as
all the smaller cities. The amount spent,
on publicity direct for the picture in the
press was £1511. The results of the seasons
were: Brisbane, a surplus; Adelaide, a heavy
loss ; Hobart, a small surplus; Perth, a loss;
Sydney, a loss; total loss on actually show-
ing the picture, £877. Australasian Films,
Ltd., handled the picture to the complete
satisfaction of the owner, but were pre-
vented from showing it in Melbourne by the
action of Electric Theatres (Hoyt’s), who
would not agree to it being presented there
owing to a dispute over terms. The other
picture mentioned by “O. Kay,” “Tall Tim-
bers,” is owned by Australasian Films. Ltd.,
and has been shown in five Australian States,
but not in Melbourne, where the same con-
ditions apply as far as Electric Theatres
(Hoyt’s) are concerned.
, “Hamfat”: The memories of a very old
pioneer living in Sydney include a Vic. gold-
fields performance at which Lola Montez was
the star. In the seat next to him sat a lithe
gentleman slightly elevated and noisy in his
appreciation ; in the orchestra was a musician
with a rather memorable face. The elevated
gentleman was Adam Lindsay Gordon; the
musician was Wallace, composer of “Mari-
tana.” That opera was first performed in
Sydney, by the bye, at the Royal Victoria,
April 19, 1849. It was not until Wallace
took it to England that the piece made
enough to keep him from scraping a fiddle
in the orchestra. “Maritana” way finished
in a room in a small house in Rowe-street,
Sydney. The Playbox is now upstairs in
the building next door.
“Cine Ma”: The spread of the doctrine
of_ self-determination in the film world pro-
mises to bear some interesting fruit. Japan
long ago sickened of the stereotyped goods
of Hollywood, and after some comic efforts
to produce the same article itself is now
turning to the unexploited and charming
held of its own history and myth. The
famous story of “The Forty-seven Ronin,”
m 20 reels, is projected, and should attract
even the Edgar Wallace type of film fan.
In the last scene the 47, after bloodily aveng-
ing their murdered master, commit hara-kiri
in order that he shall not lack efficient ser-
vice in the world beyond. In China also the
historical drama is being used, and,
it the effort at condensation doesn’t cause
lt -n° , a blood-vessel, a Hindu company
wil shortly put the 100.000 verses of the
Manabharata upon the screen.
“Cauboy” : Never since the days of Bland
Holt have I heard such hearty appreciation
of the mechanical side of the theatre as is
Sw *™ Ce ir mg , htl -y, at Melb - Athemeum.
where The Wrecker” lives. A houseful of
season-ticket holders listen with the ears of
expert critics to the various sounds descrip-
f a railway yard, and when some
special display of virtuosity occurs, such as
the grinding bump of a slowing goods train,
the enthusiasm is deafening. The human
performers, although their acting is by no
means to be despised, almost get the bird
by comparison.
“Cine Ma” : Besides the priceless “Proxi-
telian” statuary from “Hodrian’s” villa (vide
advts.), Melbourne’s flappers are to be pro-
vided with a sensation which they will find
easier to understand when the new State
Theatre opens in Flinders-street. It is one
of the three bull-fighter’s capes worn by the
sainted Rudolph Valentino when he posed
for “Blood and Sand.” The State shares the
privilege of providing a shrine for these pre-
cious relics with the Capitol Theatre, Chicago,
and the Riviera Theatre, Omaha.
“Cine Ma”: Julie Suedo, a British film
actress celebrated as a vampire of the screen,
has risen up in moral revolt and refused
to act in the nude for the £lOO per week
offered her by a German firm. Yet females
quite as chaste and modest as Julie have
overcome, for the sake of Art or even for
half a crown a sitting, the natural reluc-
tance of a woman to unveil her beauty to a
man. Contrary to popular opinion, artists’
models are not ipso facto prostitutes.
Recently I was shown over an art exhibition
in Melbourne by the wife of a painter who
had obviously been saving models’ fees by
posing his spouse. According to Miss Suedo’s
view, this woman was a shameless hussy.
Still, maybe the film actress in her way is
right. It is doubtful if the movies are Art.
“Cellor”: “Cine Ma” (B. 9/l/’29), like
many another who has written in Poverty
Point on the talkies, makes a par out of
an absence of knowledge. His remarks about
cutting out the dialogue and leaving the lips
is absurd as far as the movietones, at least,
are concerned. In these talkies the film also
holds the dialogue, music or other noise, and
it is impossible to remove the speakers with-
out removing dialogue, etc., and vice versa.
“Macann”: It is our business, of course, to
look to the correct upbringing of our young,
but “D.” (B. 9/l/’29) makes me think we can
overdo the job. The very things which upset
his sensitive stomach at the Sydney Grand
Opera House panto, are the things that every
healthy youngster most enjoys. The chap
taking newly-born pups from his shirt is just
what makes the sane small boy roar—and
rightly. It must be a very squeamish mind
that revolts. As for the monkeys baring
their fangs and hurtling a hundred feet
through the air, those also are of the things
the small boy loves. What is more, the apes
could be squashed in the hurtle or they could
bite hunks out of each other and the small
boy would still keep his stomach; for the
s.b. is a savage and nothing will ever make
him otherwise. Moreover, he does not feel
these things personally as adults like “D.”
evidently do, any more than he feels it per-
sonally when he puts a match on a frog. It’s
horrible, no doubt—but not to the s.b.
“ J.8.H.”: The death of Henry Arthur
Jones, part-author of that money-spinner
“The Silver King” and many another play
of fine quality and successful appeal, recalls
that the famous playwright was an unsur-
passed publicity expert in his own interests.
In his later days this publicity-making took
the form of newspaper controversies with
rival writers of various types, his antago-
nists at one time or another including Bernard
Shaw, Hilaire Belloc and H. G. Wells.
Wells, with his lofty reference to “a person
named Jones,” dealt him the most felon blow,
perhaps.
“D.”: The talkies are bound to prevail
in the end; they fulfil a great human need.
How tremendously dramatic and how useful
as a dispeller of historical illusions, if we
could see and hear, in their habits as they
lived, Pitt, Fox, Napoleon 1., Marlborough,
Cromwell, Washington and others! But I
question if they will ever take the place
of the theatre. At the Regent (Sydney) on
Saturday night, though deaf, I could hear
every syllable spoken by the speech-makers
from a far-back stall. (I can do the same
with an acousticon in Parliament whenever
the member faces the gallery.) But neither
I nor my friends could hear when, in one of
the short plays, a character spoke aside for
a second or two. Every word must be
beefed straight out, for, though the voice is
proportionate in imagination to the player’s
figure, the audience is listening to it, in a
manner of speaking, through an acousticon.
The talkies should turn the “Gazette” into
the most important part of every picture
show. Their education value should be
enormous; we would listen delightedly to a
Kipling or a Shaw where we might not read
him; and a Baldwin or a Ramsay Mac-
Donald could distribute Empire messages in
this way that would otherwise remain un-
spoken and unknown.
“E.C.”: A revival of “The Merry Widow”
is expected in Sydney about February. Vir-
ginia Perry is marked for the new Sonia;
her role in “The Desert Song” will fall then
to one or other of those clever vocal Aus-
tralians Marie Bremner and Romola Han-
stein. Of the Merry Widows I have seen
not one has touched Carrie Moore. Carrie,
who could even now fill the role well, was a
fascinating actress with a naturally fine
voice.
“Prog” : After listening and watching the
movie called “The Red Dance” at Sydney
Regent I felt rather sad for the future of the
picture-theatre orchestra. The picture accom-
panies itself; the music is supplied by a
New York orchestra. Strangely enough, with
the music coming from the screen or near it,
the fact that the dialogue had to be thrown
on with sub-titles did not seem unnatural.
The music rings obviously of the can, and
no doubt always will, but it is loud and
broad, and, having heard picture audiences
applauding the Wurlitzer and sundry bang-
crash orchestras, I am satisfied that is all
that is wanted. The ideal picture-theatre
music is noise slightly disguised.
“Caesar’s Ghost” : Australia welcomes back
an old friend in George Trades, who has
returned with the latest bunch of importa-
tions to play in “Pigs,” a pending J.C.W.
piece. It is 30 years since he was here
playing Zuzu in “Trilby” with Reuben Fax
and Edith Crane.
“St. John’s Wood”: Andre Skalski’s
friends in Sydney and elsewhere, who were
delighted by his fine musicianship and
intrigued by his uncommon personality, will
be interested in the achievement of his life’s
ambition —to be conductor of a great sym-
phony orchestra. Chicago, where he has
been for some time the head of a master
class at the Sherwood School of Music, has
given him his opportunity. Seventy of the
finest musicians in the city formed the
nucleus of the organisation, which is event-
ually to be raised to 120, and has the
Walter Straram orchestra of Paris for its
model. The masterpieces of all nations will
be given, with special attention to those
which make an instantaneous appeal to men
and women of average musical education.
THE UPROAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When drop the shutters of the day
And busy noises die,
And gradually fades away
The scent of roast and fry,
A newer clamor starts to stir
The after-dinner throng;
With rattle, bang, and screech and whir,
The suburbs burst in song.
Weird good-byes float upon the breeze,
And broken hearts are rife ;
Whilst chirpy tenors breast the seas
Of throbbing, pulsing life.
Old records pour out rasping notes
Such as to jazz belong;
With gramophones and screeching throats,
The suburbs burst in song.
“Ah, peaceful eve!” —but why should I
Let flagrant lies creep in?
The eves that on the suburbs lie
Bring dinners first, then din ;
Ev’n I, upon my saxophone,
Am blaring loud and strong.
Why should I silence keep, alone,
When suburbs burst in song?
N.S.W.
HAMFAT.


fd
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD.
Total Assets exceed £2,000,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1)
(2)
Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
Private hospitals varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from poncy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost evciy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity ,
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Vagabond King”
Criterion “The Patsy”
Royal “The Girl Friend”
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Desert Song”
Royal “Other Men’s Wives”
King’s (com. Saturday) “White Cargo”
Athenaeum “The Wrecker”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
«.
Judging by “Other Men’s Wives,” now
struggling at Melbourne Royal against the
hot weather and the reluctance of the public
to pay Bs. 6d. plus tax for the privilege of
listening to a gramophone overture and being
bored, Walter Hackett belongs to that con-
gested class of theatrical camp-followers
who hang about, the drama waiting for better
men to think of a new device, whereupon
they rush in and overwork the original idea
for more than it is worth. The device in
question—not blazingly original, since there
is already in town another play on the same
theme, which is eight years old —is the
double-bed.
Mr. Hackett apparently believes that there
is an insatiable curiosity about an article
of furniture which is so commonplace that
no dealer thinks of a bedroom suite in any
other terms. It is so commonplace, in fact,
that present writer saw a holiday camping
party returning the other day with the
mysterious object tied on the outside of their
car. If Mr. Hackett brought wit or dramatic
interest to the handling of his sleeping couch,
something might be said in favor of his play,
but he doesn’t. There isn’t a line in his piece
which sticks in the mind five minutes after
one has left the show.
The allegedly dramatic situation occurs
when the curtain goes up the morning after
the night before and discloses two pairs of
shoes reposing guiltily outside the door be-
hind which Mr. Hackett’s favorite piece of
furniture is supposed to be ensconced. Only
a Presbyterian elder who had never been to
a play before would be surprised when the
owner of the masculine pair of footcoverings
emerges from another door and explains that
he has spent an uncomfortable but virtuous
night on the floor of an adjoining room.
It is apparent even to a playwright of Mr.
Hackett’s calibre that the double-bed theme
is a trifle thin, so he throws in a pearl
necklace, .a murder and a private detective
of the sort whose behavior would earn him a
thick ear in actual life. But nowhere does (
he attempt characterisation or hold even a’
distorting mirror up to nature. His puppets
NOELLE SONNING, with “The Wrecker” at Melbourne
Athenaeum.
have the personality of a row of telegraph
posts.
After “Our Betters,” it is rather surpris-
ing to find Miss Bannerman making herself
up for the leading part in such a negligible
bit. Perhaps she thought that her physical
charms and her extensive repertoire of gowns
would blind a simple public to the deficiencies
of the play. But the public is not as simple
as it was; nor is her aeti-ng particularly
good. Miss B. has a vast collection of
studied gestures and correct expressions, but
her inability to give any sort of unity to her
conception of a role makes it hard at any
time to know what she is trying to be. Ellis
Irving does very well as the compromised
young man. After a long course of Shaks-
pearean drama he is fast modernising his
acting and shaking the stiffness out of his
limbs. The revival of Lily Titlieradge in
an important part is not a notable theatrical
event.
* * *
Whether or not the talkies fulfil their
promise, and, with development, become an
entertainment equal to or greater than the
silent screen in popularity, they are, in
Sydney at any rate, beginning by filling the
box-office coffers as nothing else has done
in years. At the Prince Edward, which
changed to an all-talkie bill last Wednesday,
they have established a state of affairs that
can only be described as feverish.
Speak to an attendant there and he snaps
at you like a starving codfish. Try to step
in ahead in any of the SO-yard long queues
and you’ll get wfcat you deserve, if not more.
Inside the theatre at any time throughout
the continuous programme, from 11 a.m. till
getting on to midnight, the stairways are
gratefully accepted as seats. It is a swel-
tering, rushing business, arising, of course,
primarily from the novelty, but not alto-
gether unjustified apart from that. The
talkies shown are of the same kind as those
at Sydney Regent—Movietones—which have
been given detailed criticism in the “Shadow
Shows” column. The best thing in about a
dozen is George Bernard Shaw’s impromptu,
which includes an imitation of Benito Mus-
solini —a typically witty Shaw episode.
G.B.S. puts a bulldog expression on his
face and then claims an advantage over
Benito because, whereas he, G. 8.5., can put
that expression on and take it off, Mussolini
can not take it off. It is a rich fragment
of ridicule. Did the world lose its greatest
clowns when ridiculer and ridiculed became
playwright and dictator?
This Showman’s opinion, confirmed by a
second visit, is that the Prince Edward’s
current show is one that should not be
missed.
* * #
With the lollypop musicomedy “Kissing
Time,” to the part-authorship of which
P. G. Wodehouse pleads guilty, the Manly
Amateur Theatricals fought a gallant battle
last week against the heat wave, plus prox-
imity of the freshening surf. The opposition
was beaten, but not by much, though any
victory was complimentary, since there were
other forces strongly dug in behind those
advance troops.
For one thing, the idea of staging a
crowded musi-
comedy into an
area scarcely cap-
able of accommo-
dating the cast of
an “On Approval”
is not one to be
lightly encouraged.
A carping critic,
too, might rate
“Kissing Time” as
one with winter or
spring; any time
but broiling mid-
summer. There’s
a n inappropriate
time even for the
congenial practice
of tasting the face
powder of a pretty
girl—or, at any
rate, for watching
somebody else taste
it. Again, in musi-
comedy a strong,
earnest chorus in
the background
and a few striking
personalities to the
fore is the ideal
picture. Here the
chorus is very
stiff; a French
cafe scene is a
polite gathering of
the last sort of
people who would
be seen in such a
place. An apache
hovering darkly
about the precincts
is a touch of real-
ism that merely
serves to prove, by
contrast, that the
cafe is a drawing-
room, the bever-
age cold tea, and
the heights of
the inmates’ potentialities for dissipation
and debauchery a bored expectation of the
arrival of the vicar. The ballet, though
limited, is much better. They are, of course,
girls. How much better in general the pretty
creatures are than males at any sort of act-
ing ! The explanation is in themselves;
life to them is acting, posing, prinking, so
they take to the stage with the natural
advantages all on their side. They have only
to be natural to pass as actresses. A
male here and there is born that way, but
most of them have to learn as a craft what
to the ladies is a gift handed down by a
kindly Providence, no doubt to compensate
them for their innumerable deficiencijes.
Happily, the males among the principals
include several who were either born that
way or have acquired the craft. John Hogan
numbers along with the physical lumpiness
of an embryo bullock-driver a good comedy
sense, and a quite passable idea of what a
stage - lover and
-producer ought
to be inspires
.T oh n Ryan,
Allie Halloran is
a slick little stage
personality who
acts a lot more
notably than she
sings. Gwyneth
Lascclles does the
same things in. the
opposite order.
* * ¥
The latest visi-
tor to Melbourne
Tivoli is Harry
Ivahne, an Ameri-
can youth who is
alleged to accom-
modate six brains
underneath his hat.
Ivahne’s mental
powers fail to im-
press. Unless this
Showman is woe-
fully mistaken, his
feats are nine-
tenths showman-
ship and the other
tenth may be a
genius for mathe-
matics, or, on the
other hand, it may
only be long prac-
tice at a familiar
set of figures. I-lis
ability to think of
several things at
once seems nothing
to one who has
seen an Australian
mother getting five
children away to
school.
As for the rest
of the bill, the Em-
bassy .Junior 12
are a dozen grace-
ful local girls; the
Fallow twins are trim little pieces, who,
however, do nothing new; Dunio and
Gegna, comedy instrumentalists, have come all
the way from Europe to perform a very dull
act; and Gil Dech, pianist, indulges in the
pernicious habit of playing highbrow stuff.
The amazing Barbette and Gautier and his
dogs are, however, strong enough to make
a Hercules of a programme even weaker
than this.
* * #
Being a staunch believer in the tragic
properties of the figure 3, chiefly through
having backed sundry mokes that bore it,
this Showman looks forward sadly to a third
mind-reader holding the Sydney Tivoli boards
within the next few weeks. He saw a very
sorry showman at it a week ago, and he has
seen the second of the trio, “Professor Aleko
and Princess Panthea,” now doing the old,
old act in the Harborside house. The prof,
does include some element of surprise in his
version of the turn, but it’s a dry brand of
entertainment at the best of times.
* * ¥
The usual mixed bill of vaudeville and
musical blither under the guise of revue
occupied the attention of Fullers’ patrons on
Saturday night, those eminent virtuosi
Monte and Mo being presented in “The
Police Force,” with Dan Weldon as an in-
spector and Sadie Gale in the role of a mur-
deress. The Hawaiian Kailis provided an
attractive turn ; the Brunette Girls and the
Charlestown Symphonists were prominent
among the “support.”
* * *
After advertising the “last weeks” of “The
Patsy” at Sydney Criterion, and the “last
four weeks” of “The Vagabond King” at
Ijer Majesty’s, the Firm has had to change
its mind about both shows. Business has
become so good that the bright comedy and
the spectacular musical piece have been set
off on a new and indefinite lease of life.
The mustard-plaster qualities of “The
Patsy” were strikingly revealed last Wednes-
day, Sydney’s hottest day of the year, when
at one o’clock, with the temperature about
106, a queue 50 yards long sweltered upon
the pavement waiting for the matinee doors
to open. The same night, when the tempera-
ture continued so high that the great un-
washed, from Broken Hill to Bradley’s Head,
so crowded the Sydney surf that anyone
over nine stone had to go in sideways,, there
were tip-top audiences at both the Cri. and
the Vanboucicault farewell at the Royal.
The Firm ought to be feeling uncommonly
happy just now; Saturday will see. the 150th
performance of “The Desert Song” in Mel-
bourne, and the 130th of ‘‘The Patsy” and
the 90th of “The Vagabond King” in Sydney.
To-night (Wednesday) the Annie Croft
party will occupy Sydney Royal with “The
Girl Friend,” which, after a nine-nights’ run,
will be replaced by “Hit the Deck” on Janu-
ary 26, and on this date also the new comedy
“Pigs” will get its first Australian airing
in Melbourne.
* * *
There will be some changes in Melbourne
on Saturday. Magician Nicola was able to
RUTH NUGENT, the auburn-haired, lead of “Pigs,” which starts
in Melbourne on January 26.
fill cabinets with pretty girls, but he was
unable to fill the stalls, circle and gods at
the King’s with paying guests; wherefore he
fades from the scene. Leon Gordon moves
over from the Comedy on Saturday with a
revival of “White Cargo.” “Scandal” went
badly at the Comedy, and that unfortunate
theatre has had another black mark regis-
tered against it, this time undeservedly. At
the Athenseum, where the noise of hammering
between whiles portends an outbreak of the
talkies, “The Wrecker,” after having been
surveyed by their Majesties the King and
Queen and most of the Royal family, is now
being inspected by satisfactory numbers of
the sovereign people of Australia.
* * *
An interesting item of information is that
Margaret Bannerman’s next production at
Melbourne Royal will be Basil MacDonald
blasting’s dramatisation of Joseph Conrad’s
“Victory,” that ornate melodrama of the
Java Sea. Miss Bannerman will be Lena,
the silent, mysterious, immobile and. loyal
creature who, under different names, is the
heroine of all of Conrad’s books. “Victory”
will occur on Saturday week.
H- H- *
Still the talkies continue to crowd Syd-
ney Regent and Lyceum, where they were
tentatively released three weeks ago. Another
Harborside picture house that is getting a
good run without change of bill is the Crystal
Palace, where the Australian-made movie
“The Adorable Outcast” has been running
briskly for weeks. Other current screenings
include “Outcast” and “Skirts,” at the Capi-
tol : “Loves of an Actress” and “Has Any-
body Here Seen Klelly?” at the Haymarket;
and “The Haunted House” and “Husbands
for Rent,” at the Lyric.
* * *
Adelaide’s first cabaret show has proved
that the city has no demand for that kind
of thing as yet. The season stopped quite
suddenly, and, unfortunately, the “floating
palais” on the Torrens Lake closed with the
other. A concert is being given to assist the
stranded artists. The light show given by
Humphrey Bishop’s co. at the open-air
Garden Theatre is, on the contrary, a strik-
ing success. The Regent scores with two
naval pictures, British serious and Ameri-
can farcical. Norma Talmadge turns to the
Right—a little late—at the York, and Emil
Jannings does the same (a fine performance)
under Salv’army pressure, at Wondergraph.
At the Pav. Harry Lauder scores well in a
second innings.


VICHY
m
=
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
STONEWALL
SHOES for MEN
STONEWALL RIDING
BOOT
Write Desk M for Catalogue
B. 1334—Black Leather,
light sewn soles, reinforced
elastic.
Heavy Box Calf, 21/-
Black or Tan Velour Calf,
welt soles, 35/-
18b
Postage,* 1/- ; Interstate, 1/8
JACKSON'S U?
STONEWALL’ STORES
Cnr Pill 6 Goulburn S ts Sydney
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
THOUGHT IT WAS PART OF THE JOB!
MISTRESS: “You’ve only been here two days, Marie, and I catch you entertaining
a man in the kitchen.”
MARIE: “Well, Mum, he told me he used to call on the last girl, so I thought he went
with the place.”
“Maunga” : “Wild-pig ’untin’ is orlright,”
said Pensive Brown, “but I met me Water-
100 one day when me dogs was workin’ down
a gully while I was up on a bit of a ridge
fillin’ me pipe. I’d moved a few steps away
from where I’d laid me gun down, when a
boar the size of a ’ippypottymus rushed me.
I dodged be’ind a big pine-tree with ’im after
me, and round and round we went till we
was goin’ so blanky fast I could see me own
back in front of me. When I came-to me
mate was dousin’ me with water an’ the boar
’ad gorn.”
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: I believe “Ledraw’s”
tale about the black snake in the 800-gallon
tank (B. 2/l/’29) to be as veracious as any
other snake yarn; but why in blithering
blazes was that snake dead in company with
several rats and a bushel or so of frogs? As
the black snake is particularly partial to
rats and spends much of his time in and
under water frog hunting, why didn’t he
live on the rats and frogs as long as the
supply held out? With such a bounteous
and readily-accessible supply of his favorite
grub, it is clear that he didn’t die of starva-
tion, and as he couldn’t drown if he didn’t
want to, the manner of his dissolution
appears to be shrouded in obscurity.
jj, jjj
“Pick”: Foxes, cats or ’possums when
caught in a steel rabbit-trap will sit sulkily
quiet until the trapper’s arrival. A bandi-
coot immediately proceeds to free himself,
and only his dismembered limb will be found
held in the serrated jaws of the trap. Spin-
ning around the imprisoned leg and chewing
fiercely above the clamped jaws, he ampu-
tates the mangled limb Avith apparently not
the least concern for the torture he must
endure. Meanwhile by pressing bunches of
his fur on to the raw flesh, he so readily and
effectually staunches the bleeding that
scarcely any blood will be found on the trap
or earth. Having completed the gruesome
operation lie limps away, at once endeavor-
ing to make use of the shortened stump, and
in an incredibly short time the wound heals.
* * # *
“Sea Nomad”: The floating islands in
Aussie waters are mere specks compared with
what comes down New Guinea’s old-man
rivers. The Sepik is a beautiful stream,
in places 15 fathoms deep, flowing gently
through tropical jungle after farewelling its
sombre mountains. Its water is tinged light
brown by the sago swamps, but is first-class
drinking. Islands often acres in extent
float calmly down this waterway. Mostly
they consist of about a five-foot depth of
soil held together by roots, creepers, tufted
grasses and a tropical species of hyacinth.
Such islands are slow as the hands of time
but quite as irresistible. Voyagers meeting
them know they must either get out or go
under. I know one recruiter who had Hob-
son’s choice. He ventured up a by-way and
found a channel completely blocked by an
island that was floating forward an inch at
a time. His craft was made up of two huge
canoes lashed together, with the usual grass
house over all to keep out rain. In despera-
tion he set his boys to chop a channel through
the islet. This was much easier than it seems,
for the boys 'had merely to tomahawk two
straight lines straight ahead. The sopping
earth in between was carried to the bottom by
its own weight, thus leaving a narrow channel
in which the canoes floated. But the islet,
like the river and the country which gives it
birth, was remorseless. Slowly the severed
ends began closing in behind the canoe. This
did not matter so much, but some attraction
kept forcing the debris quicker and quicker
against the vessel. The boys cut faster and
faster, the recruiter worked until he too
almost sweated blood, but in three hours they
were in the centre of an islet that was push-
ing against them faster than they could cut.
Behind, the channel had closed in as if it
had never been. When utterly exhausted the
crew watched the earth sog tightly against
the canoes. They fell aboard, too weary even
to stand, the recruiter bitterly conscious that
NO PLACE LIKE HOME.
FIRST A.B.: “Is your wife on the wharf?”
SECOND : A.B .: “’Struth, yes, both of them.”
he would be pushed back out on to the main
river and swept down goodness knows how
far until liberated. Suddenly a boy howled,
“The canoes are drowning!’’ They were,
The wet earth was irresistibly sucking them
under. There was plenty of time to get
stores and belongings out of the vessels. The
boys, ashen grey with fright, hurried the goods
ashore and waited there while the recruiter
stood and watched his craft slowly, very
slowly, sucked under until it disappeared, and
the islet, its surface intact, went on its way
as if nothing had happened.
* * * *
“Kaiapohia”: Tell “Maunga” (B.
5/12/’2B) that whitebait do change into
inanga. I have lived close by the Waima-
kariri (M.L.) all my life, and have done a
great deal of fishing. The whitebait start
running up from the sea in late August, but
the bulk of them come up about the middle
of October. In November the inanga start
coming down the river in large shoals. The
number of whitebait is greater than that of
the inanga, because such a large proportion
of whitebait is either caught by fishermen
or eaten by trout and herrings.
* * * *
T .. t , . ,
M.M.E. : Laughing Jack is commonly
acclaimed by students of bird life to b
the friendliest member of the feathered
family. Personally, I hand Jacky the palm
for his studied aloofness. In response to
my many overtures he has given me the
impression, not that be is in any way scared,
but simply that we haven t been intro uced
and that he resents my bad form. Barely
does he deign to perch lower than amongst
thc foliage of tall red gum-trees, whence
he laughs the sun up and down Oocas on-
ally I come across him on a shrub or fencing-
post, but at my approach he immediately
ascends to a higher plane. And how, and
where, if ever, does he die? In all my bush
rambles I have not found a kookaburra dead
or wounded, though they are plentiful
throughout the coastal belt from Perth to
Bunburv
j’* * *
, , .
‘Felix : Gats have a reputation for being
cold-hearted and self-seeking. It is true that
they are not quite so mdiscriminating m
their devotion to humans as dogs are, and
that they maintain an independent mind,
but to those who take the trouble to under-
stand them they can evince very deep affec-
tion. Most sensitive, most nervy and most
apt to go insane are the French greys—aris-
tocrats of the cat tribe, but constitutionally
impaired by in-breeding. When I lived in
Maoriland I made many attempts to rear
kittens of this breed, obtained from Akaroa,
which originally was occupied by Gallic
settlers. My first kitteu took to me as soon
as we set eyes on one another, and after I
got him home he was miserable whenever I
was away. He used to wait on the back gate
all day after he had had his breakfast, and
when I appeared he used to leap down on
to my shoulder. I would put him down on
going into the house, but as soon as I had
started my dinner he would be back on my
shoulder, having devised an intricate plan of
ascending to the mantelpiece in the dining-
room. Poor little chap ! He died in a fit.
My next French grey, like myself, was musi-
cal. His delight was to curl his wee body
up on the tops of my slippers as I played
the piano. The movement of the pedals
seemed to add to his enjoyment. But when
we bought a gramophone he was worried,
He could stand Galli-Curci or Caruso tear-
ing a sentiment to ribbons, but when we put
on jazz he uttered a dismal yowl, stuck a
sharp claw into my calf, and then with nose
and tail erect, stalked to my old Broadwood.
I soothed him with cradle-songs and noc-
turnes, but he died m delirium that night
after scrambling up every curtain in, the
house. #
* „ _.„ , . * . .
Pudden : ‘ Kooragai refers to the quick-
growing of the stinging-tree (B. 28/11/’2S).
pj e om j ts £ 0 mention the superstition in
re g ard to this tree. Fellers declare, and
gwear on oath and pints of hops, that a
s ti ng i n g-tree will always fall towards the
cutter it doesn’t matter what the lean of
the tree may be, and how the feller cuts into
that tree w ju always fall towards him and
catck him if it can. They attribute it to a
f orm 0 £ personal magnetism or something
0 £ t hat sort. Another peculiarity of any fall-
j tree • that the cussed thing will run a
§ to find a road or a fence on whic h to
-
p " * * * *
„ . ~ .. ~
“Tuppence”: Among the native divers on
Pearling luggers the color of the soles of
their feet.is of vital _ importance. Boys
object to diving companions who have light-
colored soles. There s no silly superstition
about it. Those white soles attract sharks.
Nearly all sharks take their prey on the up-
j ourne y ; and when the boy has left the
Vjottom and is going to the surface, white
so ] eg ] oo k to the shark like fish swimming,
er a shark has taken a boy or two he
gets j deas above his station in life, making
k j m dangerous to other divers,
(Continued on next page.)
SCRIVENGER’S COW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Scrivenger’s cow was an old dun brown with
a head both long and wise,
And a lip that sagged and two short horns—
she was broad between the eyes.
She roamed the streets in search of food
in wind-swept Windywoo,
And all things good for a cow’s inside were
down on her me-noo.
She knew that town as the p’liceman did,
and all of its greenest spots;
Her special wish was to browse and blow on
the townsfolk’s garden-plots.
She stumped around, a vagrant cow, with
an eye for a gate ajar;
Her tough old hide, with ribs on view, bore
many a liealed-up scar.
As poor as wood at the best of times, her
milk too thin to sell,
Around her neck was a raw-hide strap that
fastened a tongueless bell;
And some folk said the tongue was cut by
the crafty pong Ah Foo,
Who grew the greens down by the creek that
he hawked in Windywoo.
She mowed the grass on the doctor’s lawn,
and dined on his choicest flowers ;
She scoffed the spuds outside the store in
Spooner’s luncheon hours.
She was here and there, all night and day,
and her hunger seldom ceased;
She said no grace when she found good fare,
but just bogged in to feast.
While many of those in Windywoo had
dubbed her a damned old pest,
Her poor old frame was a handy peg for
a local standing jest.
When Chandler’s steak was extra tough, and
it oft was that, somehow,
The cynical Windywooites said “It must be
Scrivenger’s cow.”
Then one short week the beef was good, and
Chandler wore a grin
That faded away when next week’s beef was
killed and lumbered in.
And he tells his grumbling customers that
he cannot heed them now ;
They all boomed up the meat he cut from
Scrivenger’s scraggy cow.
QUEENSLAND.
L. A. SIGSWORTH.


Stockmen!
'tyowiJcUs
IfmcdjZjQhJ&CaAScrn
Homebush Yards,
Sydney,
or
Enoggera Yards,
Brisbane.
Auctions in both markets conducted by stock depart-
ment managers. Cattle, sheep, lambs, pigs and calves
all realise top values at the firm’s sales.
WINGHCOMBE, CARSON
STOCK SALESMEN, LTD.
Winchcombe House,
Bridge Street, Sydney,
and
99-101 Eagle Street,
Brisbane.
ďf
T he purest tobacco only ,
Wrapped in snow-white
paper without any trimmings
has made e<c Uhe Qreys” the
best 'Virginia Cigarette .
It's the Tobacco that matters
GREYS
io for 9cL CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
MAJOR DRAPKIN & CO. Branch of the United Kingdom Tobacco Co. Ltd. [NSG9
PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
More and more men are
realising the advisability of
buying at a House which
does not conduct “sales.”
Thus, at all seasons of the
year, they enjoy the advan-
tage of definitely low prices,
no provision having to be
made for a periodical “mark-
down” in prices. Hence
Peapes’ consistent Quality,
Value, Service.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
“The Rumpus”: It isn’t to be seen every
day. A small blue blurring movement on
the lawn caught my eye, and a closer exami-
nation proved the object to be a tiny violet,
nipped off just below the base of the bloom
and carried by a willowy black ant. Curi-
osity kept me gazing and I watched the flower
carried right across my green and up a fence
post. This, I thought, must be an offering
to a queen ant; but no. On the top of the
post crouched another ant with three legs
torn off one side. The mouth of the violet
was placed before the disabled ant and
gently pushed over its head until it formed
a complete receptacle. Then the ends were
drawn together and glued with a substance
that hardened immediately. The willowy
operator disappeared down a crack for a
BILLY KNEW .
MOTHER (giving her hoy some early hints about things): “You know what morals are,
don’t you, Billy?”
BILLY (whose father punts a bit) : “Yes, mum — certs.”
few minutes, then returned with two mates,
who carted the encased body downstairs out
of sight.
* * * *
“Bouragi’’: News is now coming to hand
from the Western Pacific of the brief annual
appearance of that mysterious coral worm,
the palolo. For one hour at dawn on one
day of the year the worm, which is a coral-
dweller, casts off that portion of its body
containing the spawn into the water, which
forthwith teems with uncountable millions of
the wriggling objects. A great delicacy with
native and white man alike, its coming is
eagerly awaited and the harvest as eagerly
reaped. The palolo is much like whitebait
in flavor and delicacy, though the worm is
larger than the fish. The rising occurs at
dawn on the day the moon is in its last
quarter in the months of October or Novem-
ber, and the palolo keeps its time-table to a
second. This season the coming took place
in November.
* * * *
“E.S.”: An old belief on the mid-eastern
rivers is that the pain from the sting of
the bullrout persists until the tide turns.
I have a scar on my index-finger that was
caused by one of the little beasts in the
Richmond River over 40 years ago. The tide
did not reach within 12 miles of the stinger’s
lurking-place, and a boy-mate, who knew no-
thing about tides, told me the pain would
continue until the sun went down. It did,
the sun taking two weary hours going down.
That may have been only a coincidence.
Evidence points to two hours being the com-
mon duration of the pain. The bullrout
(Notesthcs robusta) belongs to a family of
fishes that is particularly hideous. Its com-
mon length is Bin. to lOin.; its color brown
and black; and its armament two poisonous
spines which it can erect with a stabbing
effect at will.
* * He *
“Pigcat”: Tell “C. Coral” (B. 28/11/’2B)
that the rabbits liberated in the Far North
probably were not exterminated by man.
The chances are ten to one that they died
because the country did not suit them. North
of the 20th parallel rabbits are seldom more
than visitors. On the Georgina, right up
to Camooweal, they have been known for 40
years past. They can still be found if one
knows where to look. The same thing applies
all over the Tableland. The rabbit-proof
fences, so called, have not stayed the spread
of Bunny. On nearly all the Whitsunday
islands during the early ’nineties goats and
rabbits were liberated to feed shipwrecked
mariners who picked those islands to run
against. The goats have thrived and done
well even unto this day, but on not one isle
in the whole group is there even a track of
a rabbit to be found.
* * * •*
“Breed” : In the drought of 1912 we were
slowly pushing our way up the Diamantina
in S.A. with a mob of old and weak cows.
They’d been bought somewhere in the Terri-
tory, and trucked to Farina. What had not
died in the trucks we were taking up to good
feed and water, and a five-mile stage a day
was all the old shells could manage. At each
camp we left behind a few carcases for the
crows and dingoes, and as we faced a 20-
mile dry stage we were convinced that very
few would survive. But those old cows, ;
apparently milkless, saved themselves, for ’
at each dinner camp and at night they would
pair off and, standing head to tail, suck at
each other’s teats. They must have obtained
som,e moisture, for although the stage took
us three days, without a vestige of feed
and nary a sign of water, all the cows did
the trip.
* * * *
“Murkah”: “As slight as spider-web” (B.
Sundry Shows 26/12/’2B). Apt comparison.
The filmy stuff is as light as a lunatic’s
thoughts, and it has been calculated that a
half-pound of the filament would girdle the
world at ,the equator and leave enough over
to tie a knot.
* * * *
“Mundowie”: Several wayback squattage
homesteads occupy sites that were visited by
explorers, and consequently the adventures
of the latter come up for review whenever
a stranger drops in.
Depot Glen, near
Milparinka
(N.S.W), still
bears some impres-
sions of Captain
Sturt and party’s
summer camp.
Mount Poole home-
stead is not far
from the grave of
surveyor Poole. He
was the first white
man buried in that
corner of the State,
which, after Mount
Browne gold rush,
was called “Dead
Mail's Corner.”
Poole was given
plenty of company.
Across the border-
squattage horn e-
steads trail along
Burke and Wills’s
an d Leichhardt’s
tracks. Nappa-
merry, on Koopa
Creek, is nea r
Burke’s Depot,
and Oontoo over-
looks Burke’s Tree
from a gibber ridge.
Dalgonally, on the
Flinders is close
to Grave Hole,
where Duncan Mc-
Intyre left his
bones while search-
ing for lost Leich-
hardt. Tar o o m
township, on the
Dawson, was built
round Leichhardt’s
Tree, but what
occupies liis last
camp nobody
knows. The lone-
-lie s t explorer’s
grave is that of
Charlie Gray, one of Burke and Wills’s
party, which is seven miles from Inna-
mincka homestead. Long ago someone hung
a corked bottle in the tree that shelters
it. and in course of time it became filled with
slips of paper on which visitors to the grave,
most 7 * long-distance drovers, had written
their names.
* * * *
“Cooramin”: Birtles’s amphibian trailer
for crossing floods (B. 12/12/’2B) is not
the first that was used
on that route. Old west-
erners will remember Jack
Burgess and his horse
Tom Tit, which was
reckoned the best that
ever carried a saddle in
swimming cattle over
flooded streams. Often
it was left to work alone
in the water while Bur-
gess climbed over the
backs of swimming bul-
locks to straighten tangles
caused by beasts turning
round. During the heavy
floods of 1890 a long
stretch of deep and shal-
low water, with intervals
of land between Wil-
cannia and the 70-mile
Sandhills, formed a diffi-
cult barrier to the mail
coaches of Cobb and Co.,
and Burgess and his
horse were employed to
carry the mails across.
This he accomplished by
harnessing Tom Tit to a
canvas boat which was
fitted with wheels for run-
ning over shallows and
dry strips. Over the deep
places the horse swam and towed the boat.
* * * *
“Gad”: “Fingerpoint’s” observations (B.
28/11/’2B) on the recent shooting of natives
in the N.T. are both illogical and legally
unsound. It may be the duty of a police-
man to shoot a suspected murderer who is
attempting to escape, but his duty doesn’t
include the killing of the suspect’s friends
and relatives?. If there is such a thing
as a valid excuse for murder, the
black man has at least one every time. This
is his country, and the white man is a tres-
passer. That the abo.’s law is “an eye for
an eye” doesn’t alter our law. If we are
to adopt his law we must all go out hunting
game for the common pot with him (and a
sinfully bad band some of us would make
of it). If "Fingerpost” wants to know
how the abo. can respond to really just,
humane and commonsense treatment, let him
read the life of Robert Christison, of Lamrner-
moor, the very best type of Queensland
pioneer and one of the surprisingly few who
had a sense of justice in their dealings with
the blacks.
IT WASN’T ALL WALKING.
“My word, you quick-feller , Jacky—you bin walk all-a way?”
“No fear! My bin sittem down plenty times.”
“C. Coral”: Pearling is carried on now
in happier circumstances than those de-
scribed by “Dirk” (B. 28/10/’2B), but in the
early days methods adopted to promote acti-
vity on the part of the colored skin-divers
were to the point. According to official
documents, the mate of one vessel had to be
remonstrated with because of his playful
habit of firing revolver shots at the boys
in the water, to encourage them to get more
shell. Another incurred the displeasure of
thjj authorities for having killed a boy who
brought up too little. But it was a Gov-
ernment official a few years back who, when
an island boat came in and reported that
she had not much pearl-shell but had struck
a find of copper from an old wreck, ordered
the captain to put his swim-divers over the
side, head downwards, until they had given
up ideas of treasure-seeking! Fortunately
for himself, the official’s orders were not
carried out.
* * * *
“Boronia” : Until the other day I believed
that Laughing Jacky attacked only very
small snakes and invariably killed them by
dropping them from a height. A three-foot
tiger-snake was enjoying a sun bath, when a
kookaburra swiftly swooping down grabbed
the reptile just behind the head and at-
temped to fly off with it. Twice this was
repeated without success, as the crawler
was too heavy. Then the bird commenced a
series of low swift darts, his sharp beak
unerringly coming into contact with the
neck of the now furiously fighting snake. At
the end of the fifth round the reptile’s head
lay completely severed from its body, and
Johnny started a hearty meal.
* * * *
“Hayband”: The oddest raiment I’ve seen
was on a Cooktown abo. He’d got into a
bright green waistcoat by shoving his legs
through the armholes and buttoning it up
the back!
* * * *
“Bun”: For the greatest skill in the auto-
matic distribution of its seeds, I nominate
the ordinary black oat. Each seed is equipped
with long whiskers, which, when wet, acquire
powers of movement enabling the oat to pro-
pel itself along the ground from one paddock
to another. Put a handful of seeds into a
dish of water and presently the whiskers will
come alive and attempt to escape from the
dish. I once heard a harassed wheat-cocky
affirm in all seriousness that his deadly
enemy originated in the crossing of a wild
oat with a field spider. But that is a ques-
tion for the abos. who know all about
hybrids to wrangle over.
PHONOGRAPH JACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Across the plains and over the hills,
With a little box on his back,
Where there isn’t a town for miles and miles,
You will find old Phonograph Jack.
He carries a few of the old sweet tunes
In the folds of a sugar-bag,
And his battered old piping phonograph
Is packed on top of his swag.
He is known to the men of the unfenced land,
To the women who live out west,
Where the rivers spill in the big lagoons
And “the pelican builds her nest.”
And the news goes round by mulga wire
To homes that are far and near,
“We’re having a bit of a spread to-night,
Old Phonograph Jack is here.”
There’s ever a meal and a bed for him
At the end of a long day’s tramp,
If there’s not a house for a score of miles,
For lie knows where bullockies camp.
The teamsters listen with never a word
As the name of the tune he tells,
Then his music blends with the curlew’s cry,
And the low ding-dong of the bells.
They’ll listen sad-eyed to old “Home, Sweet
Home,”
For the years in the bush are long,
And memories waken and thoughts fly back
With the strains of that dear old song.
There’ll be hammocks swinging from wheel
to wheel,
But one hanging high at the back,
With a net well spread from foot to the
head,
Is ready for Phonograph Jack.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


cTi&buvz 'rjyjoucCz tfcsivi ~(oay-
'SytfU- -iotzy tfciyhii Trutdil.
m
«
.
♦
mm
m
7 W
m
ii
m
mm.
2
.V
m
Mi
m
-v
. 4
#
*<
r\\
o>
sT<
5
u
<b V§o^"'
y-
? •'1
mtm
V ' '*
ill
, ' ’ < •■
MARK.
TRADE
NAVY CUT
CIGARETTES


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney!
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
d
Why be satisfied with less?
SHARE in the benefits that P. & C. Assurance brings ! When times
are hazardous the company keeps policies in force ; a definite
sum is set aside each year for loan purposes. P. & C. policies
are planned to meet the special needs of the man on the land —these
are the things that have resulted from the co-operative basis of the
P. &C. The further fact that the company is linked with the most
influential co-operative bodies in the Commonwealth is yet another .
factor in the stability of the company. When such advantages can
be obtained at no extra cost, why be satisfied with less ?
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS V CITIZENS
==_ COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA
ll- -HO CASTLEREAQH ST. SYDNEY cj
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. l
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney."
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
ABOUT CLOVERS.
“Curlew”: Since the introduction of phos-
phatic manures and the practice of top-
dressing there has been a marked increase
in the quantities of clover found in pasture
or cultivation paddocks. Subterranean clover
has spread over cultivated land or lands that
carry wash. Useful stuff, but it has its
demerits. It smothers all other vegetation.
Also when it dies ( down it lies flat, and if
the soil is of a gritty nature stock take up
more grit than is good for them internally,
and their teeth speedily deteriorate.
Trifolium minus, a bushy pink-flowered
clover, is one of the best. Like subterranean,
it is an annual and very freely re-seeds itself,
but it does not choke out all other vege-
tation. Trifolium glomeratum, “clustered
clover,” is of a very similar habit, and is
even more valuable. These annual clovers
have root systems which ramify well through
the soil, making it pervious to moisture and
the action of the air, besides adding much
humus. Alsyke and white and red clovers
are highly recommended, but require better
conditions than subterranean or the tri-
foliums, particularly as to moisture and soil
quality.
“Birdsfoot trefoil” (Lotus corniculatus)
is a useful perennial clover that thrives
almost everywhere, and “greater birdsfoot
clover” (Lotus major) is particularly suited
for damp places. I have it growing lux-
uriantly amongst rushes, and it is slowly
strangling them and making the soil one
dense mat of splendid herbage. For places
liable to wash out it can hardly be excelled.
Soils poor in lime do not produce clovers
abundantly, though the deficiency may be
partly made up by top-dressing with super,
or, preferably, basic slag.
Clovers are rich in flesh-forming nutrients,
being in this respect comparable to lucerne,
and they grow well where lucerne would not
be a success. In the Werribee (Vic.) dis-
trict land formerly sown with lucerne lias,
been found to give much better results under
clovers.
WHEAT AS A LAND-IMPROVER.
“Molong”: If you want to improve the
sheep-carrying capacity of your land, sow
wheat. It may not pay as well as sheep, but
you will be able to fatten your lambs on the
stubble, and even should a forest of thistles
follow —as your neighbors will predict—the
pest will eat itself out in a year or two. If
clover, lucerne and rye-grass are sown with
the wheat, so much the better, but improved
grasses will result in any case. On the
majority of runs some paddocks are partially
cleared. By cultivating these and sowing
seed as suggested with the wheat, the carrying
capacity can be doubled in one year and
the wheat crop will make up for loss of the
use of the land while being farmed.
SEED-TESTING FOR THE NOVICE.
“Dardadoo”: If your knowledge of seeds
needs improving, get the opinion of an ex-
perienced man before you buy or swop, or use
seed you have conserved yourself. You will
notice that he first judges a handful by
weight—quality is influenced by weight.
Next he will smell it, and so detect musti-
ness, which is bad, and bunt in the case of
■wheat, which is worse. Then he will gaze
at it for a long time, and so judge it by
size, color, brightness and plumpness, and
will detect broken grains, weevils, weed seeds
and foreign matter.
You must learn to judge seed that way,
too, and you can get some practical experi-
ence by submitting the seed to a germination
test. It is very simply done. Cover a plate with
a square piece of wet blotting-paper cut so
that the corners just overlap the edge of the
plate and allow air to enter when you cover
with another plate. Take a handful of seed,
count out 100 grains and place them in rows
on the blotting-paper. Don’t pick the seeds,
but take them as they come, including broken
or eaten ones. Cover these with another
sheet of wet blotting-paper, place the second
plate on top, and place the whole at a win-
dow where the sun streams through, or in
any other suitable spot where the tempera-
ture is above 75deg. Keep the blotting-papers
wet, and all seeds that intend to germinate
will do so within from three to seven days.
Now count the seeds that have germinated,
and you will have an idea how far the bag
wall go. In the case of cereals do not expect
a higher result than 90 per cent., that is,
90 out of the 100; but if the test is below
75 per cent, you had better get more reliable
seed. If you can’t do that, remember that
only three-quarters of the bag is effective,
and make allowances for that in sowing. If
you intended to use four bags to the acre,
you should now use at least five. Don’t use
any cereal seed that is over two years old,
and remember that plants are like animals,
and that it is the pedigree that counts; so
strive to get seed that has given proved
results, and preferably that grown in ypur
own district.
HUMUS. •
“Hatter”: Humus consists of decayed ani-
mal or vegetable matter, and, unlike most
other constituents of the soil, can be readily
observed, since it imparts a dark color. The
degree of blackness is, roughly, the in-
dex to the amount of humus. Its most
important function is to improve the
holding capacity of the soil by absorb-
ing water and fixing manures, parti-
cularly nitrogen (ammonia) and, in a
lesser degree, potash, magnesia and others.
Humus acts like a sponge and tem-
porarily stores both rainfall and manures
which would otherwise be speedily lost. But
it has other uses also. It renders the soil,
especially in the case of clays, more friable
and therefore more easily capable of pene-
tration by the roots of plants, which are
thus enabled to enlarge their feeding area.
Also its dark color absorbs the heat essential
to enable bacteria to convert chemicals into
available plant food. A good supply of humus
is very necessary in wheat areas, as without
it the gluten contents of the grain will be
Thousands of men fail on the land because they don’t know how to
succeed; many thousands more succeed less than they should because
they lack proper guidance.
“The Bulletin’’ wants to encourage farmers and scientists who know
to help those who don’t know.
With that object it offers two prizes of £2O and £lO for the most
useful contributions to the “Land” pages during the six months
ending June 30 next.
All contributions submitted, whether published or not, will be con-
sidered in awarding points, and the prizes will go to the winners
of most points.
Points will be awarded for interest and practical usefulness.
The prizes are additional to the usual payment for published
contributions.
poor or soft. For this reason the stubbles
should be ploughed under rather than burnt.
Well rotted farmyard manure makes excel-
lent humus, but it is expensive to apply. A
catch crop of leguminous plants turned under
as green manure with a phosphatic manure
containing lime supplies both humus and
nitrogen, and is cheap and efficient.
All plants need humus, but some require
more than others—notably potatoes and
onions. Land that has become sick with these
crops should be green-manured and limed to
restore fertility. All waste vegetable matter
on a farm should be collected in a pit, with
layers of lime at intervals to promote decom-
position, to form humus. Sandy soils in
dry regions suffer severely when humus is
lacking, and become increasingly sterile.
This is very conspicuous in and around
Sydney.
SOME LIME FALLACIES.
“Agronom”: “Hatter” (B. 19/12/’2B)
theorises on orthodox lines concerning what
lime will do to the soil, but his claims are
not substantiated in the field. Lime will
not bind sandy soils, and its application will
not remedy thick skins or deficient flavor in
citrus fruit. It will, on the other hand, reduce
citrus yield considerably. “Hatter” accepts
the arbitrary figure of 17,0001 b. of lime per
acre as the minimum amount required to
render a soil fertile. If this is correct we
haven’t any fertile country in N.S.W. The
figure was determined by an English scien-
tist who tested English soils, and he would
probably be the last to say that the figure
also applied to Australian soils. Chemists,
however, have followed it, and in the past
invariably recommended dressings of one to
two tons of lime per acre for all acid soils
sent to them for analysis, but they didn’t
follow it up and see if the application
increased the yields. It remained for the
practical fieldmen to measure the results and
to recommend the use of super, and other
fertilisers because they gave better results
than lime.
Another aspect to this question is given
by the fact that certain crops are not only
acid-tolerant, but actually require the soil
to be acid in order to attain their best de-
velopment. Such crops as citrus, maize,
potatoes and cotton come under this cate-
gory. Only such crops as lucerne and some
of the clovers demand plenty of lime. Again,
most cultivated soils are acid and should be
so. Those that give an alkaline reaction,
although they may contain sufficient plant
food, are frequently most infertile because
the alkali is toxic in action.
Another mistaken belief is that sorrel will
grow only in very acid soils, and therefore
liming will eradicate it. In tests at different
centres in N.S.W. liming the sorrel has
invariably increased its growth.
Of course, there are soils that require
lime in addition to super., but the farmer
must be guided by the crop he wants to
grow. Only when he wishes to grow a
crop like lucerne or clover need he apply
lime. If grazing land lacks lime, use super,
on it and feed the lime to the cows as bone
meal. It will be more economical and give
much better results in every way than apply-
ing lime direct to the soil.
NATURAL MANURES.
“Noah Fraid”: The value of natural
manures does not depend entirely on their
content of plant food, for they supply large
quantities of organic matter in a form which
readily breaks down into humus, thereby
enriching the soil in this all-important con-
stituent. An American estimate of the
quantity of manure (solid and liquid) pro-
duced annually by farm animals is as fol-
lows : Cow, 13 tons; horse, B£' tons; sheep,
1 ton ; and pig, l ton.
The analysis and current chemical value
of these four natural manures is as follows:
Phosphoric Value
Nitrogen Potash Acid per ton.
p.c. p.c. p.c. s. d.
Cow 5 .3 .45 13 9
Horse .. .. .5 .9 .40 17 0
Sheep.. .. 1.0 1.20 .1 26 0
Pig .. .. .8 .6 .04 19 0
On this reckoning each cow produces £9
worth of manure per annum, each horse
about £7 worth, each sheep 265. worth, and
each pig 9s. 6d., and this is not taking into
account the value of the organic matter.
Where beasts are housed the manure
should be carefully preserved by a regular
system of collecting, and a liberal dusting
of super, to prevent the loss of nitrogen as
ammonia during the subsequent fermenta-
tion. In the paddocks a good plan is to
scatter the droppings with the harrows.
Never pass a lump when walking through the
field —always put the boot in. By so doing
you get more even distribution and greater
availability.
TAR FOR FLOORS.
“G.11.N.”: In chaff-sheds in damp locali-
ties the flooring is apt to rot or to be
destroyed by white ants. Cement floors have
been tried in such places, but without further
treatment they are totally unsuitable, as the
cement allows the upward seepage of moisture,
which penetrates the bottom layer of chaff.
An application of hot tar over the cement will
eliminate the trouble, but I’ve discovered a
simpler and equally effective method of floor-
ing. Last year I removed a board floor and
prepared a level, well-rammed surface of
earth. I liberally coated this with cold tar
(hot would have penetrated better) and
sprinkled some sand on it. Later I swept
off the superfluous sand. Since then we have
had about 45 inches of rain, but no chaff
has been damaged, and mice have no chance
to get under the floor, as was formerly the
case.
CURE FOR EYE BLIGHT.
“Westbrook”: “Paul C.” (B. 19/12/’2B)
no doubt has a good cure for cattle blight
in diluted zinc sulphate. The writer, how-
ever, has used methylated spirits as a remedy
for the last 30 years and has never known it
to fail with any kind of stock nor at any
stage of the disease. To treat sheep, tie a
cloth, preferably one with wool in it, over
the afflicted eyes and pour a little of the
spirit on to the rag so that it will soak
through into the eyes. Horses and cattle can
be treated by pouring the spirits directly on
to the eye. Two treatments a day are suf-
ficient, and it should be remembered that
animals suffering from any eye trouble should
be kept out of the sun as much as possible.
BURRY WOOL.
“Bindei : Bradford has been complaining
of late that many of the Q’land wools are
becoming increasingly burry, whereas a few
years ago they were comparatively free from
burrs, which greatly increase the difficul-
ties of carding and combing and therefore
detract from the market value of the wool.
For this reason the grower would be eager
to abolish or control the growth of burr on
his property, but this is quite impracticable
in view of its wide distribution in W.Q. and
its habit of growth. In addition, the plant
is capital feed for sheep while it is green,
and even after, and is often a valuable
stand-by in a dry spell. The solution of the
trouble will have to be left to Bradford.
There the so-called “carbonising” method has
been resorted to with success. This, which
is also employed in France, consists in
immersion of the wool in a sulphuric-acid
solution carefully adjusted to carbouise the
fine spicules of the burr with the least pos-
sible degree of injury to the fleece itself.
BABY BEEF PROBLEMS.
“Bad Australian” : The most valuable trait
in the Polled Angus (B. 26/12/’2B) is his
ability to resist cold and hold his own and
even put on weight where the Shorthorn and
Hereford would lose condition, and this pro-
bably accounts for the popularity of the
breed in Canada. The Polled Angus is a
fine broad-topped, short-legged, beefy animal,
running to somewhat heavier weights than
the Shorthorn and Hereford, but producing
beef of a coarser texture and of a quality
inferior to the latter breeds.
A cross between the Polled Angus and the
Hereford and Shorthorn of our southern
areas would probably produce a greater
weight of beef in a given time than either
the Hereford or Shorthorn, but I am inclined
to believe that it would be a better paying
proposition to stick to the pure strains, as the
increased weight of the cross-breed would
not be sufficient offset against the superior
quality of the pure-bred beef.
The Polled Angus had a certain vogue in
Vic. about 30 years ago, and pens of heavy
Angus-Shorthorn bullocks were often seen
at Flemington, but Vic. cattlemen did not
take kindly to the breed and it seems to have
been neglected since.
The selection of a type of animal best
suited to the production of baby beef is a
matter of the first importance, but no matter
how wise the selection may be the success
or failure of the experiment depends on the
conditions under which the animal is raised.
In order to ensure success the climatic con-
ditions and food supply should be such that
the animals never suffer a set-back. They
should put on weight continuously from the
day they are dropped until they are ready
for the abattoirs.
It is due to the existence of these con-
ditions in the provinces of Buenos Ayres,
Santa Fe and Cordoba, where the natural
grasses are supplemented by large areas of
alfalfa (lucerne), that Argentine breeders
have been so successful as producers of baby
beef as well as mature animals of the primest
quality. As the necessary conditions do not
at present exist in Australia, except in a
few restricted areas, it would appear that
our chances of establishing the baby-beef
industry on a scale of any magnitude are not
particularly encouraging. There are, of
course, very considerable areas in Australia
where the climatic conditions are favorable
to the establishment of the industry, but
until a supply of nutritive green feed, such
as alfalfa, is provided to carry the animals
over the period between the drying-off of the
native grasses and the following spring they
will not maintain the continued progress
essential to the profitable production of the
best-quality beef. Irrigation appears to be
the only solution of the difficulty.
FODDER RESERVES.
“Squaremile”: It is much easier to advise
graziers to reserve fodder than to do it. A
thousand sheep will eat a ton of hay in two
days, and the larger the number the bigger
the problem. Our droughts generally come
as a climax to a series of bad years during
which time two things have operated to han-
dicap the grazier who knows he ought to
conserve fodder. One is that the weather
has been too dry for some time to grow any
fodder crops, and the other is that during
the dry time a good deal of the stored crop
has already been fed out to lambing ewes
or young sheep to tide them over the dry
spells. “Mintfhall” (B. 12/12/’2B) says: “If
your selection is too poor to grow a crop,
buy baled lucerne, etc.” It would be better
to sell your selection if it is as poor as tliat.
Anyhow, don’t buy fodder to beat a drought ;
(Continued on page 25.)


T~ . £y
De Soto Six
PRODUCT of'CHRYSLER
<D e <Srto
mmim
m
v>m
2 2
wmm
Mull urn pro parvo
Nothing is so unmistakably the ultimate
among cars of its class. It is so obviously a
car of character and breeding—generously
endowed with every attribute that spells
greater value—a car that could come
only from a maker with the broad
experience and great resources of
Chrysler. If your interest is focused on
the field of low-priced sixes, be sure
to see and ride in the new De Soto Six.
Australian and New Zealand De Soto Distributors:
flew South Wales:
GRENVILLE MOTORS LTD.,
Carsell House, 205-213 William St.,
Sydney.
Victoria:
AUTOMOBILES PROPRIETARY LTD.
92 Flinders St., Melbourne.
Queensland:
STRADBROKE MOTORS LTD.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
South Australia:
DOMINION MOTORS LTD.,
Flinders St., Adelaide.
Western Australia:
WENTWORTH MOTORS LTD.,
Milligan St., Perth.
New Zealand:
NEW ZEALAND MOTORS LTD.,
Wellington.
DE SOTO MOTOR CORPORATION (Division of Chrysler Corporation), DETROIT, MICHIGAN


Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
IN CO-OPERATION WITH
WAGONS-UTS CO.
Ihe only Firm with permanent
offices all over the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
fd
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
J may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
ESCORTED TOURS TO EUROPE.
ALL CLASSES—Leaving February, March,
April. We are the pioneers of Escorted
Travel, and having our own offices through-
out Europe, are the only Tourist Firm
properly equipped to handle such business.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street,
ADELAIDE:
49 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building)
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
pet^ vl
,
« k a>i’ csS
m
c ■>.
7
m
7
\
mm;. /. \
; '. f/ ' S
\\ \ \. w%
mm.
I
'V//////J//M
V///A
-
t> leas
Xeal^ d ’ P ......
sk*
WHATEVER may be your holi-
day mood .. . fishing; game
hunting; alpine climbing;
sight seeing ... you will be enthralled
by a change amid New Zealand’s be-
witching surroundings, a memorable
holiday at unexpectedly low cost.
Let us send you free literature and
details of fares. Use the coupon!
NEW ZEALAND
GOV’T OFFICES
London Bank Chambers,
20 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
59 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
ATISM
WHY SUFFER
DAILY TORTURE?
WHEN IN 24 HOURS YOU CAN TELL
HOW GOOD IS THIS 40-YEAR-OLD REMEDY
Thousands of men and women are living, not
merely in daily pain, but in daily peril of heart
• trouble due to Rheumatism in some form or
another. The chronic pain which we call Rheumatism
is due to excess of Uric Acid poisons and harmful
bacteria in the blood. The Kidneys are not carrying out
their work properly, and these poisons, instead of passing
out of the body, accumulate. So, in addition to agonising
pains day and night, vital organs such as the heart are
weakened in their action. This is your chief danger—
a danger you should not neglect.
A REMEDY with a WORLD-WIDE REPUTATION
There is a remedy that will act quickly and surely. It
IS recommended the world over and tested in tens of
thousands of cases for over forty years. Your chemist
stocks De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, and sells
them to you under the guarantee of satisfaction or money
back.
Tens of Thousands Trust This Remedy.
From the first dose, within 24 hours, you will see
and know they are doing you good. Persevere with
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills and you will
banish your painful, dangerous symptoms. Many,
once bed-ridden, crippled by Rheumatism, in torture
day and night, have found real health again in this
40-year-old remedy. Ask your Chemist how good
it is. He knows the value of the prescription clearly
printed on every box, and can tell you why De
Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills can, will and
must do you good.
Almost every post brings written proof of the
value of this remedy, generally in cases where
everything else has failed. Here is just one of
thousands of such letters.
Mr. W. C. Everett, 150 Weston Road, Rozelle, Sydney,
N.S.W., writes: “For over two years I was troubled with
bad pains in the back, and sluggish feeling every morning.
I Suffered very badly and could not lay on my left side or
back, and I was in constant pain. I tried lots of well-
known preparations until a friend, who was a sufferer from
e
r
©
v
O
y*j
\V
AC
c
Lumbago, told me that De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills were the only things that °-ave relief I
■decided to try them, and after taking only half a battle of pills I felt better. I am now in nerfeot
health. I am very thankful and tell other sufferers all about De Witt’s.” y
Every box of “De Witt’s” bears the name clearly printed so that you cannot bs
mistaken, and it is to your own health interest to be sure that you ask for and see
you obtain the genuine De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills. They are sold in two sizes
—3/6 and the larger, more economical size 6/6. There is no substitute and nothing
just as good.
DeWUFS
KIDNEY &
BLADDER
PILLS
THE REMEDY WHICH PROVES RESULTS.


Make rough walking
easier!
With these resilient Abbey
Sports Shoes —so tough that
they outwear all ordinary
kinds—so light and pliant
that they allow fullest muscle
freedom and reduce fatigue.
They’re soled and heeled
with the strongest crepe
rubber—on a leather base
that holds the shoes in shape.
The feet are comfortably
cushioned over the most un-
even ground. Neatly
brogued, with low-cut ankles
and curved lacing to fit the
instep, the uppers are made
of brown willow calf—best
for active wear.
Order by Post.
Full and half-sizes available in
medium and wide fittings. Easy
from the first time on. Specify
width as well as length, and
order Abbey Dark Tan Polish,
6d. per tin.
Brown Willow Calf,
50/-
New, enlarged catalogue post free on
request.
ABBEY
Established over 81 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
LlO7 SYDNEY.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins ... 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
POST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
IX
"tSTV
Fresh Youthful Skin
And Lire Healthy Hair
Kept so by Cuticura. Regular
use of the Soap, assisted by the Oint-
ment as needed to soothe and heal
any irritations, will keep the complex-
ion fresh and clear and the hair
healthy. Cuticura Talcum, fragrant
and refreshing, is ideal for daily use.
Soap Is., Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
SP®-"' Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
if any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Saves 100 Shovels !
THE MARTIN DITCHER will do the
work of a hundred men at a fraction
of the cost. It is the most useful tool
on any Australian farm. Write us
for illustrated leaflet and particulars.
3mb
jaw^ >n,w i
,y
ft
27ie OM Way
-and-
The New.
df
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Exton House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
T. & G. B’l’g, Light Square, Adelaide.
PRICE
£35
B.K.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST COMMERCIAL FORESTRY CO.
SUBSCRIBED SHARE CAPITAL £235,586
SUBSCRIBED BOND CAPITAL £2,750,000
BANKERS—THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND AND THEIR AGENTS.
SOLE BROKERS—SMITH, WYLIE AND CO., LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN BRANCHES AT MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE,
PERTH, HOBART AND NEWCASTLE.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCHES—AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH AND DUNEDIN;
AND AT 36-38 NEW BROAD STREET, LONDON, E.C.2; JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA;
BOMBAY, INDIA; SINGAPORE; KUALA LUMPUR, FEDERATED MALAY STATES.
PAY AS YOU GO BY CHEQUE
1. It eliminates unwise spending.
2. It saves time and many steps in settling bills.
3. It gives prestige to your transactions.
4. It instils respect through your association with a reputable bank.
At this Bank you are allowed Interest on your
minimum quarterly balance.
manj'j'Voii urers £)an Lofjlusfralia %
HEAD OFFICE 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London
df
you don’t know how long you’ll have to keep
on doing it. Droughts last for years some-
times ; young sheep pass into old ones, and
it is possible to put more food down their
throats than they are worth. Keep your
money in the bank; and when the drought is
over you will have some money to buy in
again.
SECOND GROWTH IN POTATOES.
“Nemo”: Second growth probably causes
more losses to potato-farmers than all the
pests. After a dry spell, when the tubers
seem to be holding their own nicely, rain will
cause them to turn into seed, and, although
a very bad crop may be improved thereby
—made fit for home consumption at least —
a good one becomes a mass of “stag-ends.”
There is a means of preventing this, and
when potatoes are likely to be scarce it is
worth while taking the trouble. Second
growth is caused by moisture coming into dry
soil. Therefore the soil about the tuber roots
must be kept moist by hilling and mulching.
The more often the surface is disturbed the
less chance has moisture to escape. Hilling-
up the rows keeps moisture in by deepening
the earth upon the tubers as well as break-
ing it up. Bracken and suckers left lying
where cut to dry before firing can be collected
and placed between the rows, and any kind
of weeds, thistles, etc., can be used for
mulching; even garden and orchard clippings.
Should a crop of weeds result, they can be
ploughed in or eaten oft! by sheep.
RIVERBANK ONIONS.
“Noino”: A feature of experiments in
onion-growing undertaken by the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture in various parts
of the State last, season was the high yield
obtained on the banks of the Macquarie, at
Dubbo, on irrigated land, where crops of
from 16 to 30 tons per acre were obtained.
Market-gardening on river flats near cities
and towns is extensively practised in older
countries. The land used is subject to
periodical flooding, and therefore not suitable
for residential purposes, and can generally
be acquired at a very moderate price or rental.
The essentials for Success in such an under-
taking were well illustrated in the Dubbo
experiments. The seed used was carefully
selected from the plots of private growers in
various parts of the State; after propagation
in seed beds the young onions were trans-
ferred to carefully cultivated plots, which
were frequently irrigated and lightly culti-
vated, and, in the case of the best crops,
heavy dressings of fertiliser were used. As
in the case of other crops, it was found that
onions can be over-fertilised. Experiments
on this point were conducted with plots of
Hunter River Brown Spanish. Best results
were obtained with a dressing of 4201 b.
super, and bone dust (equal parts) and, on
another plot, a dressing of 5251 b. basic super.
In each case the yield was 22 tons 3icwt.
Increasing the allowance reduced the yield.
Unmanured plots gave an average yield of
18 tons 16Jcwt. With onions at £l5 per ton,
the amount actually realised, the value of
the increased yield due to the use of fer-
tiliser was £5O ss. per acre, which made the
investment of money and labor a very profit-
able one.
The most satisfactory varieties for the
Dubbo river-flats were found to be the
Hunter River strains —Early Improved,
Brown Spanish and White. Southport Globe
(White and Yellow) and Yellow Flat Dan-
vers were found commercially unsuitable, and
Odorless, though a big yield was obtained,
proved a poor keeper.
A DISTEMPER VACCINE.
“Fido”: According to a report submitted
to the Field Distemper Council in England
by Dr. Laidlaw and F. W. Dunkin, who
have for five years been investigating the
nature and cause of distemper in dogs, the
virus the presence of which is a symptom
of the disease has been isolated and is used,
after laboratory treatment which renders it
inactive, as a vaccine which, when sup-
plemented by an injection of the active virus,
is claimed to be an absolutely effectual pre-
ventive of distemper.
The virus is not a first cause. It is
merely a sign of the presence of an invisible
micro-organism.
The investigators, with characteristic Brit-
ish caution, delayed the announcement of
their discoveries until they had made prac-
tical tests with 1300 dogs and hounds,
including a wide variety of breeds and types.
The dogs are first inoculated with the
inoperative virus. Then, ten days later, they
are inoculated with a dose of the living
virus a hundred times as strong as would
be required to produce infection in an animal
that had not been inoculated. The second
inoculation produces very slight symptoms—
in some cases none at all —of distemper, and
is claimed to render the dogs “completely and
permanently immune.”
Inoculated dogs have been kept in close
contact with other dogs suffering from acute
distemper and suffered not the slightest ill-
effect.
Arrangements are being made for the pro-
duction of the vaccine on a scale such as
will make it generally available.
TO MAKE DAIRYING PAY.
“Pick”: To make dairying successful a
record of each cow on the farm should be
kept throughout the year. The booking
should show date of entry to the bails,
quantity of milk yield weekly, increase or
decrease under continuance of milking, vari-
ance on different pastures or fodder, the
inclination to fall off or increase in yield
under different conditions of weather and
season, and, above all, the increase or decline
of the butter-fat test taken regularly.
Suppliers to cheese and butter factories
get paid not for quantity alone, but accord-
ing to the quality of their milk. A per-
centage of 3.8 is the standard butter-fat
test, and the cow that gives it—provided her
quantity is satisfactory—is profitable,
because she earns a gallon price for a gallon
supplied. _ The cow that tests less than 3.8
has to yield more than a gallon of milk to
earn the ruling price of a gallon, and
unless her quantity is abnormal she is unpro-
fitable in the yard. On the other hand, the
cow that tests up to 7.6 —and some of them
do—brings the price of a gallon for every
half-gallon she pours into the bucket.
The rule-of-thumb dairyman who keeps
no records learns nothing of these essential
matters, and year after year he plods along
with the same old derelicts in his yard. The
expert sorts out his unprofitable cows and
passes them on to the butcher.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Estimated number of sheep in Q'land,
year ended June 30, 1921 f (2) Weight of clip
in pounds same year? (3) Estimated value.
(4) 'Number of sheep in the C’wealth for
same period? (5) Weight of clip? (6) Esti-
mated value of clip?— Bl3s.
(1) 16,642,385. (2) 129,435,5041 b. (3)
£9,702,292. (4) 99,055,547. (5) 924,410,5331 b.
(6) £74,080,000.
I wish to wire-net a boundary-fence. What
is the law in N. S. Wales regarding a
neighbor doing his half; and what notice
do I have to give? —B269.
The Act provides that the owner of ad-
joining property may call upon his neighbor
in writing to assist in equal proportions “to
erect or repair” the dividing fence. It is
open to question, however, whether the wire-
netting for your personal security comes
within the meaning of the law. Six months’
notice is required.
(1) Prospects in the N.T. for a man wislo-
ing to start a sheep- or cattle-station there?
(2) What capital ivould be required? (3)
The best method of scouring first-hand know-
ledge of conditions? (4) What opportunity
does Central Australia offer to the small
man? (5) Where to apply for particulars
as to leases, assistance, ctQ.f- —8231.
(1) In the northern section of the Terri-
tory, now known as North Australia, there
are practically no sheep, though there will
probably be a move this year to introduce
them on the Barkly Tableland by two groups
of Sydney and Queensland pastoralists.
Generally speaking, cattle-raising, owing to
the necessity of considerable improvements,
is no small man’s job, nor have big holders
found it profitable of late years, though with
the improved world outlook for beef, con-
ditions should grow better. (2) Impossible, to
say; there are sometimes chances of getting
in, perhaps in partnership, on favorable terms.
Some men have gone up with thousands aud
lost them; others, who started with little,
are well placed to do well if prices improve.
(3) Anybody who feels a call to the country
should first of all work there for two or
three years and judge things for himself.
Men with pastoral experience who are pre-
pared to work have good opportunities of
getting positions, between March and Sep-
tember at any rate. (4) There is probably
more opportunity for the smaller man iu
Central Australia, more particularly with the
opening of the railway there this year, but
anybody going there should be prepared to
face low rainfall conditions. There are both
sheep and cattle there. (5) Home and
Territories Department, Canberra.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Odd Job”: Old milkeans that are past
service in the dairy make handy containers
for special lots of seed required for next
season. A bit of sacking round the lid keeps
out weevils and damp.
“Old Timer”-: If at ploughing time mie of
your horses shows a rough coat and is not
a willing worker or feeder, the trouble is
intestinal worms. Give him a few drinks of
blued water of the same strength as is used
for bluing clothes in the laundry. A couple
of days treatment will cure him.
“Biro” : Before milking each cows’ udder
should be washed with a weak solution of
Condy’s and water, for tiny scales, sores
and warts are often present. For general use,
lime is a fine disinfectant and is easily
applied. Fill up holes in the floors with it
and spread it around the bails. Flies and
other pests dislike lime.
“Old Timer”: The directions given for
wiring a paling fence by “R.G.” (B.
26/12/’2B) are all right, but don’t try it for
a pig run unless heavy logs are placed along
the outside of fence, to which the palings,
after wiring, are securely nailed. The pigs
will lift the palings clear of the wire, unless
they are anchored, and will break through.
“Mulga”: A good cure for a horse that
has been cut is to bathe the wound with
molasses. First wash with a good disin-
fectant to remove dirt; then cover the wound
with lukewarm molasses smeared on a
clean rag. Renew the dressing every 24
hours until the wound has healed. I’ve cured
some very ugly-looking gashes by this method.
“Apiar”: Many beekeepers forget that
their bees need a lot of water in summer,
and the further they have to go for it the
more of them will have to give up honey-
gathering to haul the water. Dishes of
water placed near the apiary, if there is no
natural supply handy, w 7 ill increase the
honey flow and the average life of the bees.
Pieces of wood should be placed in the dishes
so that they run from the sides into the
water. This makes the liquid easy of access
and saves many lives. Supplying water,
too, will keep the bees away from the domes-
tic tanks and water-bags, where many a
sting has been received.
“Trevdee”: To bring the first load of
wheat of the season to the railside is,
among Vie. Mallee farmers, a performance
ranking higher than a century in Test cric-
ket. An entry for this season’s prize is G.
Hutchinson, of Wail, who brought in a load
of good Nizam variety in November.
“Sir Spen”: Let we add a couple of points
re conditions attaching to homestead farm
leases, mentioned in the Service Department
(B. 26/12/’2B), which are highly important
to both buyers and sellers of these tenures.
In the first place, the buyer should be aware
of the provision in the Crown Lands Act for
reappraisement of capital value consequent
on transfer during the first 15 years of the
farm, and, in the second place, the seller
should be aware that, although he is given
the option of effecting improvements in lieu
of rent for the first five years, he may be
liable, notwithstanding the fact that ample
improvements may have been effected, to pay
the whole or any part of such rent if the
farm is transferred during the first 10 years.
It is surprising how many country solicitors,
when drawing up contracts for sale of home-
stead farms, fail to make provision for the
application of either of these provisions in
the law. both of which are exercised entirely
at the discretion of the Minister.


Our Dervice Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved,
anted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Invalid, confined to bed indefinitely, would
like a little light reading matter. (To Miss
Mavis Walton, Commonwealth-street, Ka-
toomba, N.S.W.)
Motor-driver, Sydney, wants position, pri-
vate or commercial, mechanic by trade, first-
class refs,, go anywhere.—B2l7.
Partner with capital (£6OO to £1000)
wanted by practical farmer, wheat, sheep,
etc., Westralia.—B2l3.
Two returned soldiers (Vic.) want job
trapping, poisoning and digging-out rabbits.
Take skins as part wages ; go anywhere.—
0.210.
One of the “Old Contemptibles” wants
position as book-keeper or any position of
trust. . Excellent credentials, both military
and civil Strictly temperate. (To S. A.
Croll, M.M., 27 George-street North, Sydney.)
Victorian railway clerk wants position as
book-keeper or clerical post, N.S.W., Q’land,
I acific Islands or Malay States; total
abstainer, motor-driver.—B22B.
Woman, experienced and reliable, wants
position of trust in good class N.S.W, hotel.
\\ ould attend to office work and assist
generally with management.—B246.
Ex-seaman wants care of boats, N.S.W.;
cleaning, painting, overhauling; knowledge
of engines. Place with cottage preferred.—-
8250.
Queensland lady, experienced stenographer,
knowledge of book-keeping, desires position
anywhere in Australia.—B234.
Q'land State-school teacher, experienced as
governess, wants position as governess on
sheep-station, excellent refs. —8264.
Competent accountant (38), married, no
children,, knowledge storekeeping, own car,
desires position station, Queensland or N.T.
(To Erik Larsen, Millaa Millaa, N.Q.)
Refined, capable young lady, has travelled
as secretary and companion, wants position,
station life preferred.—Bl9l.
Two rabbit-trappers, 150 traps, good char-
acters, want trapping area, northern N.S.W.
or south-west Q’land, handy to rail.—BlB9.
Young man (27), educated, travelled, good
horseman, book-keeper, handy man, wants
position station, N.S.W., N.Q. or N.T. Do
anything.—BlB4.
Trained nurse would give services, any
capacity, for passage to England.—B2s6.
Young lady, recent arrival from England,
seeks position as nursery governess on
N.S.W. station, no music.—B279.
To buy works on political economy and
social problems, new condition.—B26l.
To buy copies Dickens’ works, “Household
Words,” "All the Year Round,” etc. (To L.
Jenkins, Box 32, North Sydney, N.S.W.)
To buy small week-end house or camp,
close to good blackfish grounds, near Sydney.
—8268.
To buy, Holtzaphffel’s “On the Lathe”
(vols. 4, 5 and 6) and Gray’s “Influence
Machines”; quote separate prices.—8195.
To buy, powerful telescope, Ross preferred,
suitable for rifle-range work; state price
wanted and original cost. (To J. Notley,
Stawell, Vie.)
Exchange" banjo-ukulele, with extra strings,
pitch-pipe, case and tutor, for camera.—B23s.
Words of verses entitled “Flying Kate.”—
8194.
Words of songs, “Blind Kitty Farrell” and
“When the Fields Are White with Daisies.”
(To J. G. Bowater, Box 147, Ayr, Q.)
To. correspond with readers who possess
Felicieh Rops prints or books illustrated
by him. —8251.
To correspond with persons interested in
prospecting for osmiridium.—BlB3.
Information Sought.
(1) Titles of books dealing entirely with
Australian parrots, other than Greene’s
“Parrots in Captivity .” (2) Have Neville
Cayley’s bird articles been published in book
form ? —SI42.
(1) There is no other work devoted exclu-
sively to Australian parrots. A book by
David Seth-Smith, “Parrakeets,” deals with
several Australian parrots; it was published
in 1903 by R. H. Porter, London. And
useful information regarding Australian par-
rots and other birds will be found in Dr.
J. A. Leach’s “Australian Bird Book.” (2)
No.
Re Cobb and Co., Ltd. (1) Number of
shares (a) pref., (6) ord. (2) Assets and
liabilities at last balances. (3) Any other
useful information? —B22s.
(1) There are 13,625 £1 prefs. and 20,959
ords. paid to 18s. At last balance (June 30)
liabilities were £14,819. Net assets were
supposed to be £661 in excess of capital;
that is to say, after allowing 20s. in the £
for prefs., there was 18s. 4d. for each 18s.
paid ordinary share. But as the profit
last year was only £1368 and in the previous
year £959, some doubt may be reasonably
entertained as to whether the assets would
all fetch their book value on realisation
—and the directors seem to look forward to
liquidation. There is a seller of ords., there-
fore, at 12s. 6d., and that is a substantial
discount. The co. is in business as a store-
keeper in Brisbane and country towns.
(1) What would be the award rate for
ringbarking on a sheep-station eight miles
from Moree (N.S.W.)? (2) Working hours
prescribed? —-8033.
Under the Pastoral Employees (State)
award, as varied October 15, 1926, 84s. per
week, without keep, for an adult station
hand. The rate for a station employee over
20 years of age—that is, an employee en-
gaged, among other things, as axeman —is
16s. per day without keep. Hours of duty
for a station hand are not. without payment
for overtime, to exceed 52 per week; for a
station employee the maximum is eight hours
per day, or 44 hours per week of six days.
The award does not apply to employees who
are not members of the Australian Workers’
Union, nor to employers who are respon-
dents to a Federal award.
(1) When is a sailing-vessel on the star-
board tack? (2) Two vessels approach, one
oti the starboard tack, the other on the port
tacJc; which has the right of way? —Bl49.
(1) When sailing on a wind with the
wind on the starboard side, the wind filling
the sails. (2) A vessel on the port tack
must always give way to a vessel on the star-
board tack. ' ,
I have a friend who arrived in N. S. Wales
from Norway in October, 1927; of course
he has not been naturalised. (1) Gan he
acquire real estate in N.S.W.? (2) Can he
acquire a. business for himself or with a
partner? —7932.
(1) The Naturalisation and Denization
Act 1898 (N.S.W.) provides that real pro-
perty of every description in this State may
bq taken, acquired, held or disposed of by
an alien in the same manner in all respects
as by a natural-born British subject. This
provision is, however, narrowed down by
special provisions with regard to the acquisi-
tion of Crown lands. For example, an alien
must reside a year in the State before being
qualified to apply for an original homestead
selection, an original purchase lease or a
settlement-lease, and must become natural-
ised within five years, otherwise any land so
acquired will become forfeited. Other hold-
ings, such as homestead farms, Crown leases,
leases within an irrigation area, etc., are also
subject to special legislation. (2) The pro-
vision in the Act quoted applies also to the
acquisition of personal property, such as a
pecuniary interest in a business.
(1) In what parts of Australia have
diamonds been found? (2) Total value of
the diamond yield? —BlBs.
(1) Copeton (Tingha division) and Red
Hill (Crookwell division), N. S. Wales;
Beechworth district, Kingbool (Western dis-
trict) and near Benalla, Vic.; Diamond Yale,
near Stanthorpe, Q.; Echunga district, S.A.;
Pilbara, W.A.; Donaldson district, Tas.
(2) Impossible to say exactly, but nothing
much. During the last year for which
figures are available, N.S.W. production was
valued at £240; no returns were published
in the other States.
I want to bring out an English friend —a
lady—as a nominated immigrant (N.S.W.);
what is the fare, and where would I have to
apply? —Bo79.
Approved domestics are granted free pas-
sages, provided they undertake to engage
in that class of work for 12 months; if the
lady does not come under that head the
passage-money (third-class) would be £l6
10s. Nomination forms may be obtained from
the Migration Branch, Department of Labor
and Industry, George and Argyle streets,
Sydney.
(1) What are the voting systems for the
Commonwealth Senate and House of Reps,
and the State Lower Houses? (2) Why was
proportional representation scrapped in N. S.
Wales? —8066.
(1) The Commonwealth, Victoria and
Westralia have preferential voting, the ex-
pression of preferences being obligatory;
i Queensland goes in for optional pre-
ferential voting, and so did N. S. Wales at
the last election, though the compulsory form
is to be introduced in N. S. Wales; Tas-
mania has had proportional voting since
1909; and the first-past-the-post system
obtains in S. Aus. (2) Because electorates
were too large and too expensive to repre-
sent and administer; because candidates in
the same interest fought bitterly among
themselves for the best places on the ticket;
because the difficulty of getting a party
majority placed a dangerous power in the
hands of independents; and, above all, be-
cause the method of filling casual vacancies
proved a very poor (and in one case a very
rotten) substitute for the wholesome check
of by-elections.
(1) What are dugong? Of what use are
they besides furnishing food for abos.f (2)
Is there any truth in the statement that the
female suckles her young? —8180.
(1) Dugong is the name commonly given
to a swimming mammal (Halicare australis.
the wise call it) inhabiting Malayan and
North Australian waters. <■ The mature ani-
mal weighs 10001 b. to 12001 b.. and is eight
to ten feet long. It is hunted by Europeans
for (a) the oil contained in the internal fat,
which has medicinal value, especially for
lung complaints; (b) the hide, which can
be tanned, into excellent leather; .and (c) the
bones, which are said to make the best char-
coal for sugar-refining. A well-grown dugong
yields four to five gallons of oil; its hide
when green, weighs nearly 2001 b. (2) Yes;
the baby—about three feet long when born
is suckled through a nipple two inches long
situated just beneath the flapper on each side.
(1) On what day and date was the Syd-
ney Exhibition burnt down? (2) What time
of day was the fire discovered? (3) Approxi-
mate position of the site? —Bo6s.
(1) Friday, September 22, 1882. (2) 5.45
a.m. (3) Botanic Gardens, Macquarie-street
end.
How to make black currant jubes at home?
■ —8074.
Use loz. gelatine and lib. sugar. Soak the
gelatine in $-cup of cold currant juice for 1
hour; put it in a pan with the sugar, and
add i pint of boiling currant juice. Boil for
10 to 20 minutes, and pour into flat dishes
dipped in cold water. Should be set in 12
hours, when it may be cut into cubes, rolled
in icing sugar and stored in screwtop jars.
How can I obtain tobacco leaf for the pur-
pose of making it into plugs for my own use?
—8127.
It is illegal to buy tobacco leaf without
being a registered dealer, nor could you
manufacture even the smallest quantity with-
out being licensed and supervised by the
Customs.
Particulars of golf games suitable for play-
ing on beaches and small areas, with prices
and where purchasable in- Sydney? —Bool.
There is a game called clock golf played
with numerals 1 to 12 and a putting-hole
cup. The numerals are set out in a circle,
to resemble the dial of a clock, on a lawn
or level ground, the minimum diameter being
12ft. The putting-hole cup is generally sunk
about 18in. in the centre near 6, and the
idea is to putt around the dial. Twelve and
six will buy an outfit, without a putter; that
costs from 10s. 6d. up. Mick Simmons, Ilay-
market, Sydney, can supply the thing.
Another game, called miniature golf, can be
played on a small course half the size of
a tennis court 39ft. by 18ft. Mick Simmons
can supply full particulars.
A reliable method of exterminating a
colony of meat-ants. —8209.
Presumably the ants are the common
mound or gravel-nest ants ( Iridomyrmex
dctectus). Measures recommended are either
fumigation with carbon bisulphide or poison-
ing with potassium cyanide. If carbon bisul-
phide is used, pour about 3oz. or 4oz. down
each opening to the nest, after which they
should be closed or covered over with moist
earth. The gas given off, being heavier than
air, penetrates downwards into the galleries
and kills out the colony. Dare should be
taken not to bring any lights or fire near this
gas, as it is very explosive. If potassium
cyanide is decided upon, about 3oz. or 4oz.
should be dissolved in each gallon of water
required. Pour the poisoned water down each
opening. The ants are killed off by the
deadly gas when walking over the poisoned
surfaces- it is also taken into their bodies
during their “cleaning” or “washing” opera-
tions. Care should be exercised in the hand-
ling of this deadly poison and the cleaning
of the container afterwards. Also the fumes
should not be inhaled.
How to project two negatives on the one
printing surface in photography? —B273.
Use only one projector and make two ex-
posures on the printing surface, one negative
after the other. Use an orange glass cap
for the lens, which will make the light rays
nonactinic; thus yo<u will be able to see and
move the printing surface to be in register
for the second exposure.
The best method of learning how (1) to
speak and (2) to write Chinese? —8197.
(1) With the aid of a tutor. There are as
many ways of speaking Chinese as there are
languages in Europe. Mandarin (divided
into northern, southern and western Man-
darin) is the lingua franca of officialdom
and educated people. As each word is modi-
fied by a tone and there are five to ten
tones according to the dialect, an ear for
music is practically essential. (2) The
written language is the same for all dialects,
like our Roman numerals. Mateer’s “Primary
Lessons” and Bullock’s “Progressive Exer-
cises in the Chinese Written Language”
(Kelly and Walsh, Shanghai) are standards.
But here again a teacher is probably indis-
pensable. The Chinese consuls can sometimes
supply addresses.
How do they allow for expansion in Syd-
ney train rails due to heat. Are the joints
welded ? —BlO9.
It is the practice to electrically weld
tramway track joints where the rails are
embedded in street pavement. Expansion
joints, to accommodate variations in tempera-
ture, are left at intervals of 320 feet.
I want to increase my weight, say lJflb.
I am 22 years of age and in good health. —
8161.
If you are not unduly “skinny,” don’t try.
Obvio-usly if your body manages to keep you
healthy with the weight you have, anything
you do would be superflous. However, if
you want to defy nature, oils, butter and
cream, etc., are fat-formers.
I want to procure publications dealing
with the exploration of N. S. Wales subse-
quent to the crossing of the Blue Mountains
and the establishment of the Bathurst settle-
ment. —8193.
The best is Favenc’s “Explorers of Aus-
tralia” (pub. 1908). If more information
is required it will be necessary to read the
journals of the explorers, such as A. Cun-
ningham and Sir T. Mitchell; they may be
consulted in the Mitchell Library, Sydney.
(1) Is Lock 15 at Huston (N.S.W.) still
under construction? (2) Who is in charge
there? —Blsl.
(1) No; construction work has been sus-
pended. (2) A caretaker.
(1) Average rate of loading iron ore into
steamers by the B. H. P. Co. at Whyalla,
S. Aus.? (2) What is the utmost the belts
are capable of carrying per hour? —8121.
(1) A thousand tons per hour. (2) From
1800 to 2000 tons.
The best way of preventing excessive
evaporation in a 32-volt bank of house-
lighting accumulators? I have been using
tank waterj is this injurious to the cells? —
8196.
Place a glass plate cut to the correct shape
over the top of each cell, and also avoid over-
charging the accumulators, as this causes the
electrolyte to pass off in the form of gas. In
no circumstances should tank or tap water
be used for topping accumulators. If distilled
water is not always available, use rain water
caught in glass or earthenware basins. Do not
employ rain water caught on a galvanised roof
or in a metal receptacle.
Information Supplied.
7959. —For timbering a well have slabs two
inches thick, regular in width, and of the
required lengths. On opposite sides of the
ends cut shoulders two inches deep through
half the width of the slab. With these shoul-
ders constantly locking, fit the slabs firmly in
place from the floor of the well to the top.
Ram earth behind them wherever they appear
loose. Surmount the top of the well with 10-
mch square-cut logs firmly halved at the
corners. In the centre of the long sides mor-
tise and strut upright slabs 2 feet 8 inches
high, and bored above to receive the windlass
shaft. —“Bill R,”
Does Anybody Know?
How to make a water blower used by
plumbers ? —8239.
Brief Answers.
M.S.: Its history is covered in “The
Greatest Company in the World,” by Herbert N.
Casson, obtainable from Angus and Robertson,
Sydney (6s. 6d.) ... .H.H.W.: If you have the facts
to support your contention, probably your best course
would be to seek an interview with the secretary
of the Law Institute, 282 Little Collins-street, Mel-
bourne. .. .L. 8.: The only satisfactory advice you could
receive would be from a solicitor who had inspected
the document. There is no necessity to register a
lease though often advisable. .. .L.H.: See Daniel 9-18,
and Psalms 143-1, 39-12, 17-6 and 54-2 P.P.W.:
It would not be treated as income if payment is
voluntary and not made under a settlement, deed
of gift or instrument of trust... .L. 0.: No objection
is raised to assisted migrants leaving Australia, pro-
vided they have resided here two years and have
repaid their passage-money loan shared by the
Imperial and Commonwealth Governments. Get in
touch with the Vic. Migration Branch, Itathdown-
street, Carlton, Melbourne, or the Salvation Army
Immigration Office, 123 Exhibition-street, Melbourne.
R.H.M.: The line is in W. E. Henley’s “To
W.A.”.... V.D.: Very hard to say without seeing it.
If it causes you no inconvenience don’t worry about
it. Bathe the eyes with diluted boracic-acid lotion
night and morning and see if it disappears. If it
doesn’t, let us know... .C.E.1.: (1) Without par-
ticulars of the bonds it is impossible to give an
opinion. (2) You could try the Consul for Switzer-
land in Sydney or the British Consul at Geneva.
(3) Presume you mean Melville Glyn and Co., of
Paris; if so, correspondence to them is not per-
mitted... .M. 0.: Cooper’s “Weedicide” should prove
effective. The ground should be well wetted before
applying the preparation, which is mixed with water
at the rate of 1 part to 100. Price, 4s. 6d. per quart
or 12s. 6d. per gallon... .A.A.: (1) W. Calnan,
Thomas-street; H. Chisholm and Co., 56 Hunter-
street ; and Wm. Inglis and Son, Ltd., 28 O’Connell-
street—all of Sydney. (2) Write to Department of
Lands, Pretoria, Transvaal, South Africa. (3) J. C.
Williamson, Ltd., Her Majesty’s Theatre, Pitt-street,
Sydney; or Fullers’ Theatres, Ltd., King and Castle-
reagh streets, Sydney, may be able to help y0u....
G.L.: Particulars can be obtained from the Chief
Inspector, Scaffolding and Lifts Branch, 132 George-
street North, Sydney... .N.D.; (1) Write to Parker
and Bird, 192 Burwood-road, Hawthorn, Vic. (2)
and (3) Making a search... .A.K.T.: Accent on the
first syllable... .N.M.: The Waverley (N.S.W.) Coun-
cil, as cemetery trustee, issues duplicate certificates
of right of burial on a statutory declaration being
furnished that the original certificate has been lost,
and payment of advertising and stamp duty—usually
about 15s. Fourteen days are generally allowed for
the reception of any adverse claim.... G.W.N.: Try
S. Hoffnung, 165 Pitt-street, and Robert Reid, 32-34
York-street, both of Sydney... .R.M.: Victoria was
first in the field with old-age pensions, which came
into force in that State on Jan. 1, 1901, the Turner
Ministry being in power. The Commonwealth took
over the payment of old-age pensions from July 1,
1909 ; the Deakin Ministry was in power when the Act
was passed... .M.H.N.; Soak skins in cold water for
a few hours, then hang to dry away from sun and
wind. When they are almost dry rub a little vege-
table oil into the flesh side and allow to dry off.
... .Prealena: (1) The only way to secure practical
experience is to get a job. (2) An award for such
workers is under consideration; pay runs at present
from £2 2s. to £2 15s. per week.with keep. (3)
Not sufficient; seeing that you are inexperienced you
would want at least ten times as much... .C. 8.:
(1) Suggest you communicate with proprietor De
Beer’s Hotel, Medan, Sumatra, D.E.'I. (2) Tropical.
(3) By K.P.M. or Burns, Philp steamer, first-class
only, single, £55; return, £99. (4) About 6000
people at Medan, mostly Dutch. Fine stores in main
street; side streets contain native stores. (5) At
best hotel, about 265. Bd. per day. Hates at board-
ing-houses vary. (6) Most motor mechanics are
natives; chances of employment poor. (7) An Aus-
tralian might make money there by importing fruit.
Apples, pears and oranges are in great demand, and
boats are well equipped for storage... .A.K.T.: There
is no signalling unit as such in , the permanent foices.
The personnel of the Ist Heavy Brigade, R.A.A.
(Permanent Garrison Artillery), are trained as sig-
nallers, and single men between the ages of l 8 and
35 are enlisted from time to time. Communicate
with headquarters, 2nd District Base, Victoria Bar-
racks, Sydney.... T.R.8.: For particulars as to out-
board motors, Anthony Horderns’ (“Penta”) ;
O’Donoghue Bros., School-street, Balmain East
(“Johnson”) ; Hall Bros., Willoughby-street, Milson’s
Point (“Caille” and “The Perfect”) ; Waugh and
Josephson, St. Peters (“Elio”) ; Duval Trading Co.,
Margaret-street (“Evinrude”) ; all of Sydney....
C.P.: Presumably you refer to “Concision," a farci-
cal comedy, by Joseph Derrick, first produced in
England in 1883; if so, the play is still protected,
and persons producing it are liable for payment of
royalty. Suggest you get in touch with Will
Andrade, Central Chambers, 173 Pitt-street, Sydney.
. ...G.A.; Apply to any of the large Island trading
companies, such as Burns, Philp and W. R. Carpen-
ter, Sydney. The Home and Territories Dept., Can-
berra, may be able to assist... .J.P.0.: (1) It should
be so constructed that it is flyproof, well ventilated
by four-inch vent and the contents deodorised. A
liberal sprinkling of ordinary unslaked lime or
chloride of lime at frequent intervals is found effec-
tive. (2) They are prohibited by law in Tasmania,
and information should be obtained from the local
Health Department before construction is under-
taken. .. .W.F.; You should see a chest specialist;
there are many varieties of miners’ complaints. If
coming to Sydney see superintendent, Prince Alfred
Hospital or Sydney Hospital H. McN.: In the
absence of detail it is assumed that the intestate,
whose wife had predeceased him, left children. In
such case his personalty or “movables” would under
Scottish law be divisible among them in equal shares,
any grandchildren by deceased children taking
amongst them their deceased parents’ share. Where
there was one child only then all to him. In the
event of heritage of realty legal assistance would
be needed to make full inquiry... .H.L.W.; So far
as Vic. is concerned, Bright, Whitfield, Mansfield,
Alexandra, Yackandandah, Coleraine, Hamilton, Cas-
terton, Cressy and Camperdown districts are worth
trying for winter skins. At the present time supplies
received by buyers are small owing to this being the
off-season, with relatively low prices (Many others
mailed.)


(/*
E
u
a
Ns
i
New Beauty—Greater Luxury
Striking improvements in the construction and
design of Dodge Brothers Improved Victory Six
reveal a larger body and an even more splendid
sweep of its unusually long, low, graceful lines.
Wider windows and wider seats add further
comfort to its luxurious interior, and give a
greater breadth of vision to its occupants.
Increased body length gives generous leg-room.
And the unique and exclusive principle of Victory
construction, resulting in a lowered center of
gravity, insures riding ease and roadability as ex-
ceptional as Victory pick-up, power and flexibility
Dodge Brothers complete line of passenger vehicles includes
the Standard Six, the Victory Six, and the Senior Six,
Canada Cycle 8C Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
Austral Motors Limited, Brisbane—Townsville
Waymouth Motor Co. Ltd., Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co. Ltd., Perth
Harden 8C Johnston Ltd., Sydney
Northern Automobiles, Ltd., Auckland, N.Z.
Amuri Motors, Ltd. .. Christchurch, N.Z.
Catena and Black, Ltd. .. Dunedin, N.Z.
P. H. Vickery, Ltd. .. Invercargill, N.Z.
Norton King, Ltd. .. New Plymouth, N£,
Magnus Motors, Ltd. .. Wellington, NJS t
DDDG& B R.OTH E R. 5
VI CTO R. Y 5I X
DOGE


4 theres ♦
NO THROAT HARM
IN A MILLION
s"
20 for llb
0
'tm
%
%
m
Snp(xpisss
IVORY TIP
ARDATH TOBACCO
CQ,LTO, LONDON.
SMPKE-OH!
The best motoring-feat of the holidays is
claimed by a hit-and-run champion—an
average of three pedestrians to the gallon.
* ¥
It would appear by the number of abscond-
ing solicitors in Sydney that they no sooner
put their hands on a trust fund than they
put their foot in it.
AN EXPERT SHOWS THE WAY.
The need for a school of leader-writing having
long been, apparent, a retired member of the craft
has decided to put his experience at the disposal
of the public. For a moderate fee he will initiate
the ambitious into the mysteries of his art. Some
samples of his work are appended, his theme being
in each case, a newspaper item: “Selina Glubb,
aged 35, was convicted on a drunk and disorderly
charge at the Brown-street Police Court and fined
£2.”
(1) The Tabloid-Emotional: —
Guard Our Girls.
In the midst of Noel’s holy gaiety, despair
stalked, hyaena-like, into the quivering soul
of one poor girl-child. For what is a
mother’s daughter of 35 these healthy, happy
THINGS HAVE CHANGED, MR. JONES!
CLERK: “Sorry to be late, sir, but my wife presented me with
twin sons this morning.”
EMPLOYER: “Most inexcusable, then, Mr. Jones. Mos’ inexcusable.
One wouldn’t matter so much. But two—you can’t afford
to set two of them such a bad example, Mr. Jones.”
cami-knicker days but an unsophisticated,
irresponsible child?
A miserable male —it were a mis-use of the
language "to call him Man —came into the life
of Selina (“Sello” to the bright Australian
maidens of the Bungville Brush Factory
where she works), and soon the innocent
youngster was pledging all and sundry in
beer. Aye, and in that foul concoction known
as “pinky,” too.
Shame, ah! shame on the Australian boy
who fails to respect the sex to which his
sisters —nay, more, his very MOTHER —owe
(or owed, as the case may be) allegiance!
Constable Rafferty found Miss Glubb alter-
nately singing and weeping in a gutter, and
had considerable difficulty in effecting ar.
apprehension.
The rest is silence.
(2) The Allusively-Cultured (particularly
suitable for Saturday issues ) :
Magister Alius Casus.
“If I had a mug as ugly as what yours is
I’d fry it.” Thus Selina Glubb to Constable
Rafferty as he escorted her to the watch-
house after an evening of wassail and high
celebration. In vino veritas? Not neces-
sarily, for though “wine whets the wit, im-
proves its native force,” we have it on
Browning’s authority that there may be
“falsehood in truth.” Constable Rafferty’s
withers will remain, we may hope, unwrung.
True—
Fate never wounds more deep the generous heart
Than when a blockhead’s insult points the dart.
But here the critic was a woman, and
“women,” as all know, “are most fools when
they think they’re wisest.” The penalty
imposed by an outraged magistracy was a
salutary one —a fine of £2. As stern old
Cicero hath it: “ Pcccare licet nemini.”
(3) The Militantly-Communistic :—
Another Capitalistic Crime.
Away in the foetid jungles of Suloolooland
ten million blacks swelter at their hated
tasks, starved, callously starved, of picture-
shows, race-meetings, Test matches, the
“dogs,” “ponies,” and every other simple
proletariat joy. In France (miscalled “La
Belle”) the toilers moan beneath the steel heel
of a military despotism beside which that of
Ivan the Horrible was benevolent. Over eternal
Rome looms the tail-coated figure of Mus-
solini, with class-consciousness either dead at
his bespatted feet, or prudently affecting to
be so. And here, forsooth, in sunny Australia
itself, we have the infamous business of Miss
Glubb. A Labor supporter of 20 years stand-
ing, she was fined mercilessly for an offence
which is committed by our capitalistic mas-
ters every day and every hour of their turkey-
guzzling, champagne-swilling lives. How long,
O Lord, how long before the workers, realis-
ing that they have nothing to lose but their
chains, will rise up against such travesties
on Justice?
(4) The Temperance-Statistical: —
Some Plain Figures on the Subject of
Drink’s Ravages.
A melancholy, but alas! all too common
story was that of Selina Glubb, an elderly
brush-worker, who
was found in a
state of bestial in-
toxication by Con-
st ab 1 e Rafferty,
and duly arrested.
The festive season
was disfigured by
no less than 1720
cases of the kind —
an increase of 492
on last year, and
876 more than
were recorded in
the entire Weald of
Kent over a corres-
ponding period in
1901. There were
736 burglaries, 522
assaults, 156 cases
of senile decay, and
91 murders (all
directly attribut-
able to alcohol) as
against 152 convic-
tions for arson and
204 embezzlements,
between Dec. 24,
1887, and Jan. 2,
1888. In the Ban-
ner State of Maine
(U.S.A.), which
has rejected liquor
for over half a
century, the con-
victions for child-
stealing had de-
creased by the end
of the last finan-
cial year to the
paltry figure of 16; and there were
but 27 deaths from exophthalmic goitre.
It is significant that Maine has 2
motor-cars and 4.7 gramophones per 3.5 of
the population, while Savings Bank deposits
amounted on Dec. 25 last (mark the date!)
to no less than 147 dollars 10 cents per
adult citizen. Let Australians wake up to
world-facts like these, and vote for nation-
wide prohibition WITHOUT COMPEN-
SATION ere it be too late.
10-2-4.
# *
One Edward Gayley shone as an instru-
mentalist at a recent Sydney concert. Gay-
ley the Troubadour?
* *
The Commonwealth Government has
sanctioned the establishment of beer-gardens
in Canberra. This has greatly heartened
local vendors of pot-plants.
A Melbourne authority says: “We will
have industrial peace just as soon as we
learn to put ourselves in the other fellow’s
place.” But when volunteers put themselves
in the unionists’ places, they were bombed.
* *
RESPITE.
Is ,Death that great adventure some men
crave?
Or is there nothingness beyond the grave?
I like to think of it as some calm sea
Where storm-tossed human craft seek sanc-
tuary ;
A place where weary souls their tasks relax
And where, thank God, there is no income-
tax! D. McM.
RESPITE.
WIFEY: “I can’t find words to express my contempt for
you.”
HUBBY: “Thank Heaven for that. Now perhaps I shall
have a little peace.”
TRUTH IN ART.
(Being a few stage notes compiled by a
dismissed publicity-man during his last week
of office.)
“The Prairie Oyster” continues on its
sparkling way at His Highness’s Theatre,
Melbourne. No small measure of its success
is due to the youth, beauty and virgin charm
of Miss Agate Cornelian, the leading girl.
Ever a publicity-hater, Miss Cornelian cele-
brated her sixtieth birthday very quietly
on Tuesday. The press was excluded from
a function at which only the artiste’s
daughters and three or four of her grand-
children were present.
The secret ambition of Miss Rosina Night-
dress is to play Ophelia in “The Merchant
of Venice.” “If only,” she says, with that
delicious moue of hers, “people would take
me for the serious actress that I am at
heart —if only they would
think of me away from my
clothes!” Misg Nightdress
created the usual furore at
the Sultanic on Saturday in
“The Constant Co-Respon-
dent.”
Enormous crowds continue
to throng the Town Hall to
listen to Herr Buffalolick,
the world-famous Polish
child-pianist. The story
goes that Signor Buffalolick
escaped from Siberia at the
age of three by playing his
Bolshevik guards into insen-
sibility with Beethoven’s
majestic Symphony in G.
Actually his career is much
more interesting. He was
born 45 years ago in Chapel-
street, Prahran. By the
time he had reached 30 he was seen
to be a case of arrested develop-
ment, physical and mental. His father,
a corporation laborer named Hogan, medi-
tated making him a jockey. At this
stage a friend pointed out the unhappy
creature’s aptitude for the family pianola.
After that his career was assured. Only
those at the electrical switchboard at the
Town Hall realise at its true value M. Buf-
falolick’s classic interpretations.
Jimmy Jabber, the popular comedian of
“The Prairie Oyster,” began his stage career
at a fifth-rate hall in the East End of
London. His real name is something like
Solomonovitch. but he was known usually by
the sobriquet of “the ' Gag-stealer.” The
astute directors of His Highness’s Theatre
engaged him for Australia because he was
cheap, and he accepted because he wanted to
escape from his wife and family. He is
carrying on at present with one of the show
girls who believes his story that he is a
bachelor. Chronic drunkenness and the habit
of pinching business are Jimmy’s only faults
as a pro. The Highness’s Theatre people
have imported nothing like Jimmy for years ;
it would be impossible to find anything worse.
M. S.
LESSONS THAT HELP.
“Courage is the lesson emphasised in the drama
of the slaying of Samson by David—‘an enemy con-
quered by one who would not be conquered by
despair.’ ” —S. M. Herald.
But what of the equally valuable lessons
of weakness? But for the frailty of Adam
in face of the importunities of Potiphar’s
wife, Abraham would never
have had cause to sell his
father for a mess of pot-
tage; Joseph’s wife would
not have been turned into a
pillar of salt; and, coming
to modern times, the Armis-
tice would not have been de-
layed by the belated arrival
of General Bramwell Booth
on the field of Mardi Gras.
* *
TESTY TRIFLES.
Will the Australians get
it in the necks?
It seems to be touch and
go with some of our bats-
men.
People who pay for a
day’s Test cricket nowadays
get a run for their money—
or just about a run.
The present-day batsman’s
idea is to stand pat—and
pat, and pat, and pat.
* *
THE ADJOURNMENT.
Every ball is being watch-
ed with tense interest; as
each run is made every eye
turns to 'the scoring board.
The sign “Tea” goes ,up,
and everybody rushes off to
have a beer.
* *
It is when a man hunts
for a decent pair of socks
that he wishes his wife
would do her darn-duty.
* *
Because he committed a faux pas,
Young Jack bought his sweetheart a maux
tas.
As they ran off the pier
She remarked with a sneer,
“You do make an excellent chaux fas!”
W.A. Drial.
# *
“Only Providence could have thought of Christ-
inas.” — Rev. T. E. Ruth.
Anyone who questions the value of em-
phasis in speech is hereby invited to intone
this sentence in the manner (1) of a toy-
shop owner taking stock after the holidays;
(2) of the father of a large family examining
his pass-book at about the same time.
AND PERHAPS SHE WAS RIGHT.
“No one could be more tired than I after
a day’s shopping.”
“Oh, I don’t know. I think my husband
can be.”
The meaner the employer, the harder his
clerk finds it to put up with the old screw.
“Evil shines from your very face!”
She said with disaffection.
“That’s,” grinned the husband in disgrace,
“A personal reflection!”
THE DRAWN SAMPSON.
Smirker, xohose Valentino smile
The fond suburban heart
Of Mrs. BUggs did once beguile,
Now plays a skulker’s part
Each time the doting dame appears.
Fits dentist said to me:
“His teeth had been amiss for years.
I’ve drawn them all,” said he.
That afternoon. I chanced to meet
The lady’s lawful lord.
Seeing his rival in the street,
Bliggs, of his own accord,
Cried gaily: “Gone arc all the fears
Of jane’s fidelity
I have been suffering for years.
His teeth are drawn,” said he.
D.


-in every direction
DUNLOP
durability
is winning more, and
more appreciation
m
W/a
W/A
m
ft
W/A
7
7A
7
/
&
fj
&
w
o
tiro,. _
■Jaea
58S
<«P»
>(?•
r-y1.31.1’-? 1 ■>• •* »
l^faL’llll—F^-i
m
m
<mt
OJu-dt®.
S*fe
[%&!=£
'<\
m-***<±
*&*
r
a
x'
M ‘ :?
A\
iC- •
m
->
a
m
m
0^
: ;■>
/
/r
n
m
%
m*
✓
«
KS
XX :*
//
a
5000 GARAGES
STOCK DUNLOP


w Depend On
Wunderlich Quality
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings
Wunderlich Roofing les
Wunderlich “ Durabestos ” Building
Sheets
Wunderlich Metal Shopfronts
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
pof Forty Years, Manufacturers of Quality
Products for Ceilings, Walls,
and Roofs
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Risk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
IF I HAD THE CHOICE
By Arthur Adams
Illustrated by Aria
“Hidden down a little crooked lane.”
YOU don’t talk of Paris as you talk of
Melbourne and Sydney, or even Lon-
don, without an exclamation-mark.
Paris is all exclamation-marks, one at every
corner after that magic name. If I had the
choice I would die in Paris —and I very
nearly did. I had not gone a hundred metres
in my taxi from the Gai’e St. Lazare when
there was a crash, but a couple of bent mud-
guards and the French language was all
the damage. Luckily, my taxi-man won the
battle, and we staggered on, pursued by
fierce French oaths. And what a beautiful
language French is for expletives!
The chief trouble in visiting Paris is that
the Parisians don’t know how to speak their
own tongue. They have been there so
long that they don’t bother. You’d think
that such a well-known monument as the
Arc de Triomphe would be comparatively
famous in this city of beauty; but if you ask
your direction to the Arc, familiarly known
as L’Etoile, the Parisian looks at you dubi-
ously, shrugs his shoulders and gives the
problem up. Apparently he has never heard
of the place. You say “L’Etoile” quite
clearly, but the tram-conductor is gravely
puzzled. Ultimately a passenger ventures
to assist you ; he says something quite un-
like the French language, and suddenly the
word is understood, and with felicitations
from all the passengers the difficult problem
is solved. The sympathetic crowd sigh with
relief. “L’Etoile” has an accent that spoils
the whole thing.
The traffic regulations in Paris are child-
ishly simple. The hang of the thing is quite
easy to grasp. The boulevardes and the
streets belong to the taxis and the lorries.
Foot-passengers venture upon the. streets at
their peril. There is a law that if any per-
son who happens to be a pedestrian is run
over he is fined. If one is crippled or killed,
that is his own fault—he should own a car
or hurry into a taxi. The streets are sacred
to wheels. Once you venture to step off the
broad boulevardes you are surrounded by
perils. If you desire to cross a boulevarde
you have to chance it. Now and then I
happened to catch a Parisian policeman
waving his baton at an intersection and direct-
ing the human spate, but I could never dis-
cover any reason why he should be on point
duty except as a decoration. Your only way,
as I learnt, is to rush helter-skelter into
the tail-end of a cross-current of Parisians,
and let the Devil take the hindmost. They
knew, and I didn’t. One has to look all
ways at once, and • especially over the left
corner. Once an enormous lorry shot out
from a street behind me that I hadn't
noticed, and I found myself within an inch
of a Gargantuan thing on wheels at full
speed. The casual driver ground all his
brakes just in time for me to leap back to
safety. I had narrowly escaped being fined.
The only safe spot in Paris is inside a
taxi. You find one by your side, though a
moment before not a taxi was in sight. You
mention your destination; the driver cor-
rects your pronunciation; and the next
moment you are flattened against the back
of the taxi as the mad thing starts at full
speed. The one i
idea in the taxi- >
man’s head is to i
get you there with i
torrential speed, i
taking corners with 1
a banshee wail, <
and chancing an- ’
other devilish thing
at the next inter- ;
section. There is i
apparently no rule :
of the road and no
speed limit. Utter
chaos rules always :
at two of the most -
important foci of
traffic, Place de la
Concord and the
Arc de Triomplie,
where there are
vast spaces to be
crossed. The best
way is to get
across by a taxi.
Every taxi seems
to converge upon
the lone, terrified
pedestrian. On my
return to comfort-
ab 1 e London I
found that I could
saunter across Pic-
cadilly Circus. By
comparison it was
merely restful.
Let me lead you
to the Hotel Mantel
Rue Roquipine, just off Boulevarde Malsher-
bes, a tiny French hotel where I stayed. It was
hidden down a little crooked lane, but the
concierges of the narrow buildings religiously
washed their own pavements every evening.
Hotel Mantel had only a few rooms, but
everything was spotlessly clean, and there
was French cooking and French politeness
and courtesy. My shuttered windows let
me lean out to the courtyard, where an old
woman was working, no matter how late I
retired. For breakfast there were, delicious
rolls and marvellous cafe. The dainty little
waitress had come straight out of a comic
opera, so chic and so gay, in bright colors
and ready smiles. But she wore more than
that. She confided in me that she was saving
up her centimes to become a lady’s maid in
the great city across the straits. What a
treasure she would be to milady in the West'
End!
But the cheapness of the hotel! My apart-
ment was only 30 francs a day. Breakfast
was six francs, lunch was 20 francs, dinner
20 francs —the whole, with minor extras,
just about five shillings a day. But one did
not ask for English food —one did not want
English food.
For the hurried tourist —Paris is a city to
linger long in—there is the famous Cook’s.
You cannot escape him, and generally you
don’t want to. The best way to find your
bearings is to climb into a vast belabelled
char-h-banc with a spruiker roaring the rudi-
ments of English and German at every
famous corner. It spoils a lot, but the job
has to be done once for each side. of the
city, if one does not want to waste time.
The beauty of the city is tarnished for the
determined tourist. What would I give to
“Cafes on the pavements.”
potter about the sparkling city, without a
train to catch! One gets tantalising glimpses
of beautiful churches and galleries, making a
futile memorandum to return secretly and
lave oneself in the beauty so hurriedly
seen. But one never does. And, after all,
Paris is not galleries and churches; Paris
is to be found in the cafes and oif the pave-
ments and the green chairs on the wide pave-
ments. Paris is a pageant by day and night,
especially by night. The passing show suf-
fices. It is like an endless ribbon of a
bright-colored film, unreeled every hour. The
Parisians are actors all, unconsciously play-
ing their parts in the gallant show. Right
across the wide pavements the green chairs
stray, with French waiters, always courteous,
bringing bright-colored cool drinks to the
patrons. The film never ends. I have been
coming home at 2 a.m. and I have recog-
nised dear old English grandmothers still
sitting up, determined to see the show out.
As long as there are customers there are
dowagers to see the end of the spectacle.
But the English and other tourists pay well
for their purchases. I noted the prices of
men’s clothing; they were much dearer than
in London.
The city is half deserted up to half-past
eleven in the forenoon; then the streets
swiftly fill, and the traffic grows thicker. How
little work the Englishman and the French-
man do in their business day! The English-
man must have his heavy lunch before he
really gets down to business; and it is about
three o’clock before he has satisfied his enor-
mous appetite. The Frenchman, too, lunches
late. The Australian regards his business
day as a business day. He is there to work,
not to lunch at mid-day.
The Englishman seldom knows the inner
side of the French city-dweller’s home, which
is usually a flat right at the top of an apart-
ment, the lower storeys being given up to
various trades, such as dressmaking. It is
difficult to reach those French homes, so
secluded from the busy city. The English
or Australian visitor has to submit to be
kept out of a most interesting side of French
life.
If you see a nice girl alone in the street
yeu know that she is not a nice girl. But
“Not a nice girl.”
how startlingly beautiful some of those not-
nice girls are, and how amazingly they dress!
One evening I tried the Latin Quarter. The
Boul. Mich, is the haunt of the artists. The
long boulevarde stretched out, deserted, and
dull. Where were the throngs of artists
and models? Too early, perhaps, for it was
only eleven. But tne cafbs were deserted, too.
Where were the Gallic temperaments, relax-
ing after their day’s work? Surely the chairs
would be filled? Surely a bunch of models
would come chattering gaily at midnight?
When would the fun commence?. The boule-
varde continued suspiciously quiet and dis-
mal. I looked eagerly for types; but nobody
looked like an artist. Ah! Here came a
real artist; but he was coal-black! A little
group of (perhaps) models chattered past,
intent on their decorous moods. The famous
Latin Quarter was as solemn as a funeral.
But I sensed that off the famous boulevarde
were the little cafes sacred to the artists,
where the fun was in full swing. I was
only a tourist, a thing to be scorned.
But there are the Moulin Rouge and the
other cafes of Heaven and Hell, meant only
for the foreigners. These can be “done” by
the übiquitous Cook’s. That engaging organi-
sation even arranges a drive through the
lighted streets at night, and that alone is
enough for the pleasure-seekers. How brightly
the Parisian streets are lit, and how delight-
ful it is to speed through those wonderful
boulevardes in the cool of the evening ! Elderly
ladies find a sedate delight in this night tour
of Paris; they even imagine they are seeing
the night-side of Paris. But Mister Cook is
discreet; he waves a hand at the exterior of
the famous cafes and hurries on. All you
are shown is the outside of the oyster-shell.
There is no time allowed to pick up pearls.
Yet he does his best. On the heights of
Montmartre the char-a-banc halts for a
glimpse of the gay students’ revels. Two
dear old ladies preferred on this trip to re-
main outside these dreadful haunts —maybe
they were actors, like the rest. The minute
the tourists entered there was a burst of
song from the little cafe, and the hard-wdrk-
ing girls and men went through their obvious
stunt. The cafe did not even, pretend to be
a cafe; it was a mere shed with only a few
rough drawings on the walls; but the com-
pany did its best to simulate frenzied
hilarity. So that was that.
But the sight of the never-sleeping city
from that high point is one that no other
city can show. Paris by night is a gorgeous
panorama of color.
What a pity that there are so few kings
about now! Paris is beautiful because an
absolute monarch could, create a thing of
beauty with a wave of his royal hand, lake
Versailles, a palace of splendor, a panorama
of lawns and formal trees and glorious foun-
tains ; a show-place clustered with memories
of Louis XIV. and his pomp and the Revolu-
tion. And, if you like, you can go to that
wonder of the world in a tram!. The ferry
trip up the Seine is another delight.. There
are factories on the banks of the river, but
how beautiful the French can make mere
factories! It seems, too, as if the Frencu
cannot make an ugly bridge, and there are so
many bridges. London puts up her historic
buildings just anywhere; you will come upon
some ancient monument, or church just
around the corner. It will burst upon you
with a thrill of surprise. The monuments
of Paris are sited with a glorious vista .ot
broad, straight boulevardes, bordered witd
trim-kept trees and lawns.
The Folies Bergbres is regarded by the
Parisians as a show for the English tourist.
Certainly the stalls on the night I wenl
were almost exclusively occupied by people
speaking English. It was difficult to follow
the meaning of the farces, but the Frenc
audience enjoyed themselves. I had come
expecting to see something artisticallj
naughty, but I found that the beauty of the
scenes almost made one overlook the nud ty.
Scene after scene was presented with com
plete artistry. The nude models gave no
impression of naughtiness: those perfect
figures so perfectly fitted into the artistic
design of the presentation that they became
mere lay figures, far removed from human
flesh, a mere graceful setting designed by an
artist’s brush. They were merely statues,
like figures skilfully sculptured, part of a
beautiful design. One of the acts was a
riot of scarlet and brown, with 28 beagles
on the stage —and this was but one of the
many changing scenes that thrilled by its
artistry. Another of them was a_ signet ring
of a mediaeval Italian king, within each gem
a naked human figure. The girls who posed
for this magnificent setting were like sculp-
ture —much more like figures of pearl than
human beings. Scenes of gorgeous color and
utter beauty were lavished upon the spec-
tator. The art of such a show! That, and
not the figurines that made up the human
design, was the memory I carried away, and
will always keep. •
But the most dramatically thrilling thing
I saw in Paris was a game of chess. That
game as we know it in English-speaking
countries is a slow and deliberate, exercise
almost without speech. Not so in Pans.
One night I happened to be waiting outside
a tiny cafd with ten minutes to spare; and
looking through the window I was a keen
spectator of an exciting drama. Madame was
cleaning up the little bar, decocting strange-
colored liquids for the night. It is always
Madame who does the work —what is a wife
for? The husband was engaged at a rable,
deeply engrossed in a game of chess. There
was an audience of one, but nobody noticed
me peering through the pane. Madame from
time time to time cast a pitying, contemp-
tuous glance at the lazy oaf and 'his anta-
gonist and a chance friend.
But it was not chess as I had known it.
The gesticulations told the story. The hands
hovered over a piece, hurriedly withdrew as
if the knight was poisonous, then fluttered
down like a bird alighting, just in time to
esecape a check.
“Ah!” said the hovering, fingers. Those
ever-moving hands laughed, exulted, mourned,
almost wept; then with a sudden gesticula-
tion the scene was changed, and the player
flung up his hands with ecstatic joy, and
leaned back with a satisfied sigh.
But, no! That move was a fatal one.
Ah! how the hands implored! And how
the other player’s fingers exulted! How the
fingers leaped to a pawn!
Madame’s sigh was grief stricken. There
he was losing again, night after night! Every
finger of his hands told the story.
How anxiously his hands fell in utter de-
jection ; but after his opponent’s equally
eloquent move he discovered an overlooked
check ; and the fingers fluttered madly with
delight. But it was too late; the hands
drooped—mate!
“Up the Seine.”
Then came the inquest; sadly mourning
his mistake, his hands were desolate and
sad; and an onlooker added his fingers to
the epilogue. Other old cronies came in
and added their hands to the desolated field.
Madame looked scornfully up from her
work of polishing the tiny bar, and gave her-
self a bright-colored drink; and the fingers
dropped upon the stricken field.
It was the most thrilling episode I had
seen in Paris.


Qs>Mcfttefh < &%flson'zMs2cl
SfteatticalJhi lues
efyamatfoa/i.
Miss STRELLA WILSON, Noted Theatrical Star,
now appearing in “The Vagabond King,” at Her
Majesty’s Theatre, Sydney, is a user of Rexona Soap
and writes as follows: When travelling, I have found
hard water and cold climates very hard on my skin
and complexion. Now I use only Rexona Soap, and I
find it not only cleanses but stops irritation, and has
improved my complexion beyond all recognition.”
vjM
m
mm
■ ! :’:
m>.
m
Ki\
ft
m
£*>
ft*
i«
p»*
II
111
*ll
*i
H
**
is
is
*y»
iW
«**
#*
4*
it#
0
ft#
S 7
.0
ft#
ft#
ft
A .
fsTV
ft
ft
ft
\3&
No
►A
»» >*n
2Sg£SS* s^
- *w
** m
fL
■ ■
(jM.fy&udi/M
TWO
BEAUTIFUL
STUDIES
OF MISS
STRELLA
WILSON .
All Rexona Girls are beautiful Girls.
To be beautiful, you must have a good complexion, and bright, fresh, clear skin. This is what
Rexona Soap does for its devotees.
No matter if your features are irregular, beauty is not denied you, for every woman can have a
good complexion if she but cares for her skin by using Rexona Soap.
Rexona Soap is the ready aid to those in search of skin health and beauty. Everything that is
necessary for overcoming complexion ills are combined in its generous creamy lather.
Rexona Soap refreshes and invigorates at the same time, removes the tendency to blotches,
sallowness, oiliness or roughness of the skin. No matter how particular you may be, Rexona Soap
is sure to satisfy you, for it is the aristocrat of soaps, pure and free from harmful dry chemicals.
It is a facial soap, specially suitable for the most delicate skin. Rexona Soap has
no heavy perfume, only the delightful Rexona fragrance.
It lathers freely, cleanses perfectly, and leaves the face and hair in the
pink of condition.
’RexcnaSotip
a
m
i,'i
nnilllllllln;:!'
Vi
IhilWfiTi
s
IlHi


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3.369.965
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18,623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. H. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E.;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER ; C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 1 86 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH;
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock
Preference Shares .. .. • • bSTS.OOO
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 616,210
Ordinary Shares .. ..
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,520
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji, ’ Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUiH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE; 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Authorised Capital .. . • . • £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. •. • • l»250Jj00
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. •• 970,000
£2,220,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,470,000
Also 115 Branches and Agencies in South Australia,
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HOJPMANN&COS
HAVANA CIGARS
IN THE FOLLOWING SIZES
Half Corona, £3/15/- per 100.
Samples 9d. each.
Threequarter Corona, £4/15/- per 100.
Samples 1/- each.
Full Corona, £7/10/- per 100.
Samples 1/6 each.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
ftAAiARKSL™
352 GEORGE S T SYDNEY
* ANO BRANCHES ♦
Shipping, etc.
From
Sydney to Vancouver
Via
Suva and Honolulu
LIKE the multi-c 010 r e d
streamers of farewell, days
aboard a Union Company
Steamer are gay and ever
varied.
Between Ports of many
Pleasures strung lightly across
the Pacific, travellers enjoy the
refreshment of adventure, peace
and comfort.
Visit Pacific Isles by the
CAN ADI AN-AUSTRAL ASIAN
LINE
Union Steam Ship Company,
247 George Street, Sydney.
William Street, Melbourne.
JfrtMk
1
■5,
’"mill
%
rm
7/m
m
m
/w.
mm
1«
msm
ymss
O —Papua, New Guinea, Solomon
* Islands, Lord Howe Island, Nor-
folk Island and New Hebrides.
Make a Selection Now for Your Next Holiday.
JAVA —“The Garden of the East.”
Monthly Sailings from Melbourne and Sydney by the
“MARELLA” (7500 tons) and “MALABAR” (5000
tons).
df
Burnis. Phiiilp &.€Qv Ltdu
SYDNEY ft. BRANQH OFFtIDES,,
BANK OF
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND ..
RESERVE LIABILITY
NEW
Established 181).
SOUTH
Directors:
WALES.
£7,500,000
6,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; W. E. H. Southerden, Esq. General Manager: A. C. Davidson.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
536 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Gable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,075,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,553,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN ( Chairman ) ; Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES,
M.L.C.; Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R- DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Bircliin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all otnei paits o
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outports).
GO NOW TO
HAWAII
HONOLULU
The Holiday land of the Pacific.
This Pacific Island Playland is yours—but 13
days away—beautiful islands set in assure seas
—offering you the holiday of your life this
Summer.
Will you take it?
First-class fare for the round-trip from £7s—
£ss—cheap indeed for such a
trip. Hotel Expenses (run on the very best
First-class American lines) are as low as 12/-
to £3 per day, with meals.
Fullest particulars from all travel and steam-
ship company offices —or from this office direct.
HAWAII TOURIST BUREAU,
Dept. 26. Box 162788, G.P.O. Sydney.
COME TO
Hawaii —Honolulu
and have the holiday of your ’ life.
BRISBANE,via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
SS WOLLONGBAR— Every Tuesday evening;
passeiio-ors due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
fares.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
tourist bureau, challis house,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
HuddartParkeiL'iH 1
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars appIyHUDDART PARKER LI MITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
d
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess Insurance, and effect »
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Qt GIIYATTS.
BROOKS
APPLIANCE
FOR RUPTURE
THE greatest dis-
covery and invent-
ion of the century--
Brooks appliance affords
ample comfort; is light,
cool, comfortable and
clean. Wearer is able
to work, play and rest
without trouble or inconvenience.
GUYATT & CO. Dept. B
257 a George Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.


LYMAN
fd
SIGHTS
for practically
every gun made
ACCURATE HAND-LOADED AMMUNITION.
Ideal Reloading Tools give excellent results and save you money.
Shooters —open the way to more hunting and target shooting. Reload
your favorite cartridges. You’ll find Ideal Reloading Tools turn out
the work easily and cleanly. Every reloader needs the Ideal Hand-
book giving complete information. Sent on
receipt of 2/6 or Free Folder.
G 5 GRS.
Complete line of bullet
moulds and gas checks
for all calibres. Price,
10/6 per 1000 up to
25 c.; 12/6 per 1000
over.
Ideal new improved single bullet
mould with interchangeable blocks.
Price, 2f>/- each.
■deal No. 3
WITH
DOUBLE ADJUSTABLE
CHAMBER
Ideal No. 3 Adjustable Reloading
Tool, for cartridges such as .22
0.P., .25-20, .22 Hi-Power, .303
British, etc. Price, 39/6 each.
For prompt reply, send your inquiries for literature to our exclusive representatives:
ASHER SMITH, LIMITED, P.O. Box 966 GG, Sydney, N.S W
THE LYMAN GUN SIGHT CORP., 60 West Street, Middlefield, Conn., U.S.A.
HEINZ
Peanut Paste
Serve dainty sandwiches
of Heinz Peanut Paste.
Easy to serve —easy to
enjoy—easy to eat more.
A treat for old and young.
1370
one of the
57
Varieties
WBF YOUR HOME
Wf Deserves Good Music
DYNAMIC
/DEADER
Sweeping the country
and for good reason. It’s
as different as the new
phonographs are from
the old. Cordova A. C.
model, below, with
power amplifier, wal-
nut cabinet,! £62,
unit only, £45.
m
ASK YOUR NEAREST RADIO
DEALER TO DEMONSTRATE.
Australian Patent
No. 7225.
FOR THE RELIEF OF FOOT-WEARINESS
CREPE-RUBBER-SOLED BOOTS
81380
81380, Lady’s Nigger
Strap Shoe, Med.
Fit, with Crepe Soles.
29/6, post 1/-
81441 , same shoe, in
black. 27/6, post
1 A
AND SHOES
For the man or woman obliged to be on the feet all
day or standing on hard cement floors, this Footwear
will give Wonderful Relief to Tired Feet.
WONDER WEARING & WATERPROOF.
88113, Gent.’s Black Boots, Wide
Fit, Leather-lined, Stout Crepe
Soles. 38/6 pair, post I/-
89120, Tan Working Boots, in
Strong Elk Leather. Same style
as 8113. Stout Crepe Soles,
Wide Fit. 36/6, post 1/-
89115, Black or Tan Riding
Boots, Elastic Sides, Light Crepe
Rubber Soles. 35/- pair, post 1/-
84823, Black or Tan Riding
Boots, with Ordinary Leather
Soles. 27/6, post 1/-
WRITE FOR FULL LIST.
Walther 8 Stevenson,
LIMITED,
395 George Street, Sydney.
88113
89115
Pen and Picture
Shadow Shows
Usually this
Shadow Show-
man takes for
granted the gen-
eral excellence of
the news-reels.
There is no form
of movie enter-
tainment that he
enjoys more, and, lie believes, none in
which the too-gradually improving in-
telligence of the picture-makers is revealed
to better advantage. Some news-reels that
he saw last week, however, call for special
comment. They are the new Australian
ones prepared by the Federal Government
and released through Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.
Branded “Australia Day by Day,” or some-
thing like that, they represent tiptop photo-
graphy and are most arresting in subject.
In one of these early experiments in clean
and effective propaganda the story of the
building of Sydney Harbor Bridge is impres-
sively told. The makers have not learned
all the fine points of making news value tell,
but they have definitely grasped at least one.
The first sub-title begins, “The Greatest
Bridge in the World, over the World’s Most
Beautiful Harbor.” Sheer boost, of course,
despite its basis of truth; but what adver-
tising isn’t boost, and what is worth a hang
that isn’t based upon truth? A point not yet
grasped touches upon human interest. There
are no glimpses which tell the world of
the risk taken bj? the workers, nor any which
reveal the humanity behind the building.
The Yanks are adepts at this sort of thing,
and the appeal is unquestionably great. Apart
from this, the pictures are among the very
best Australia has yet made.
Another Australian venture of Metro-
Goldwyn-Mayer, “The Bushranger,” has
Snowy Baker written crudely all over it,
though Snowy does not actually appear. The
picture is not bad in its way. and, consider-
ing that it was made in California, the
local color is excellent. But the bushranger,
immaculate as a lounge-lizard, is of the kind
MARION DOUGLAS, of
“The Bushranger.”
that never
was, and all
the horseback
stunting that
he does was
done just as
u n necessarily
by the afore-
said Baker in
pic t u res he
blotched long
years ago. The
stun ter here is
Tim McCoy,
and his stunts
are perhaps
not so much
untrue as
merely foolish.
He rides bril-
-lia n 11 y, he
throws a boom-
erang well, but
these things
are so palpably
mere Yankee
spectacles that
the Man Who
Rode to Talbragar will probably have a pink
fit in his sepulchre if ever he hears of them.
Moreover, they detract from McCoy’s moder-
ately good acting, in which he is passably
supported by the fine-looking Marion Douglas,
who used to be Ena Gregory, and who was
born within sound of the Manly (N.S.W.)
surf. The story concerns a young man who
was shipped to Tasmania for killing another
in a duel, into which gory interlude he was
dragged by the perfidy of his brother. He
escapes exactly at the moment his pardon
arrives, and for years is a bushranger until
his father ships out to take charge of the
goldfields police. Then he is captured, but
when the girl he loves is collared by his
unfriendly comrades he escapes, has a wild
fight with a brother bushranger in a cave,
rescues the girl and so on. Fair of its kind,
but not a kind to be encouraged.
“The Crimson City” (Warner Bros.) is
a story clearly stated in the subtitles to be
placed in Singapore. The hero (Gregory
Kent) is the usual white derelict, whom
Hollywood loves to depict being kicked and
spat on by the riffraff of the East. The
narrative hinges on the destruction or pre-
servation of an envelope containing a pardon
for the derelict, who is accused of a crime
he did not commit. The fact that the police
would doubtless be able to produce another
copy of the document doesn’t matter, of
course. Nan Toy, Queen of the House of
1000 Daggers (that is anew name for it),
saves the precious scrap of paper and hands
it over to the hero’s girl, although, as she
explains, she loves him too. The English
heroine (heavily furred against the cold that
is known to rage about the Equator) there-
upon embraces and prolongedly mugs her
Mongolian rival, which is just what no
woman would do in such circumstances even
to one of her own race. “The Crimson City”
is a yellow drama liable to give the spec-
tator who knows Singapore as it really is an
attack of the horrors. It contains some good
acting by Mathew Fitz as the villainous tea-
shop proprietor, Dagger Foo. He reminds
one of G. B. Post.
“The Red Dance” (Fox) is a crossbreed ;
it is itself silent, but supplies its own musi-
cal accompaniment. It was the principal
item in Sydney Regent’s inaugural talkie
programme, and a fine picture, too, quite
away from the novelty. This Shadow Show-
man admits to a bias -where its principal,
Dolores del Rio, is concerned ; he thinks her
the most sincere, the most vital, the most
“all-the-way-through” actress of current
screenings. She never lets up for a second.
Most of them flag a bit here and there: she
never does. And she does not use only her
face as most of them do; her body, her hands'
and feet are all employed in their turn. The
story, another Russian revolution affair and
pure melodrama, has plenty of life, color and
movement, and Dolores is strongly sup-
ported. There are at least a dozen fairly
important parts and each is satisfactorily
done. But it is the girl with the glorious eyes
and the strangely pinched cheeks and the
parting in the middle of her jet-black hair
who carries the dramatic burden.
The Palette
“Fourwalls”: At a recent sale in Mel-
bourne four paintings by Louis Buvelot went
for 25 guineas apiece. Buvelot was Victoria’s
first notable brushman; in 1875 he was
awarded first prize at the Melbourne Exhibi-
tion for his “View of Gisborne” and “A
Sea Piece.” At the same sale some paintings
by James Webb were offered, but the reserve
was not reached. Webb’s “View of Rotter-
dam” was one of the first pictures acquired
by the Vic. Gallery trustees.
“P.P.”: Max Meldrum has been picking
up substantial rewards as a lecturer in
Yankeeland. During his travels abroad he
revisited old haunts in Paris, where he
did well when he left Australia on the Vic.
National Gallery travelling scholarship in
1899. Meldrum, who is a musician as well
as a painter, has many admirers and loyal
friends, but stirs critical enmity by liis
inclination to argue, even in paint. “I went
to a Meldrum lecture last night,” anew
arrival in Melbourne’s Bohemia mentioned
to a friend. “Didn’t know he was announced
to lecture,” said the friend. “He wasn’t —
he asked me to call and see him,” remarked
the newcomer, sadly.
“5.F.1.”: Touching “the monotony of re-
current inventories of cows and gum-trees,”
the truth is that the laziness or lack of
enterprise or shortage of grey matter of
Australian artists outside the profession of
journalism is becoming notorious. “Subject
doesn’t matter,” it has been contended in
defence of this form of loafing. “There is
as much beauty to be found in a hen-house as
in a palace facade.” If subject really doesn’t
matter, a painter could go on portraying the
same brick all his life. Each fresh picture
would be a better-painted brick, and no
doubt an exhibition of the year’s bricks
would be of absorbing interest to brick-
makers. There are unpainted portions of
Australia’s countenance at least as self-
revealing as the Yarra and Sydney Harbor,
and there is no reason except born-tiredness
why they shouldn’t receive attention from
competent portraitists.
The Inky Way
“Adelaide”: The oldest S. Aus. daily, the
Register, whose first number was printed in
London before the province existed, becomes
a joint-stock concern (capital, half a million),
instead of having the Kyffin Thomas family
for sole proprietors. EVan Kyffin Thomas is
first chairman of directors, and his brother
Geoffry is also on the board; but Melbourne
capital is known to have a large say, as it
has in the West Australian, and may pre-
sently have also in the Brisbane Courier,
though so far that mainly English-owned
property has only been looked at. “Schemes
for substantial expansion and improvement”
of the Register are foreshadowed.
“C.”: William Moore, doyen of Australian
writers on art, aspires to discuss his specialty
in an Asiatic paper in 1929 ; his work will
have then appeared in the five continents.
“Lao-dah”: The scribe who dips extracts
from a dictionary of quotations without con-
sulting the context is apt to wish he hadn't.
In the Gazette published by Vic. Education
Department appears a reproduction of a
portrait by Mclnnes of former-director
Drank Tate.. Underneath it are the lines,
Deep on his front engraven Deliberation
sat, and public care.” They are from “Para-
dise Lost,” and refer to Beelzebub.
“Makarini”: The Wanganui Chronicle’s
Maori section (B. 5/12/’2B) follows Te To\
TAKinNi, a capital little periodical issued
in Maori, even to the publisher’s imprint,
m the interests of the Anglican Church.
Ihe publication was put on its feet by F. A.
Bennett, who has become the first Bishop of
Aotearoa. At first it was found very diffi-
cult to get the stuff accurately printed. Then
an unusually gifted lino, operator was found •
but he could never suppress a chuckle when
lie came across the name of Archdeacon Sim-
kin masquerading as “Himi-kini.”
COMPENSATIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The .editors are strangely blind,
Because they always fail to find
In manuscripts I send
The genius that’s clear to me.
The atmosphere, the wizardry,
Enthralling to the end.
Quite candidly, the stuff they print,
Between ourselves, has nothing in’t,
Most lamentable trash.
And yet my purse is lean and lank,
While chaps like Asterisk and Blank
Cull contracts, fame and cash.
Still, though the bookstalls and the shops
Eschew my sixty-bushel crops
For harvests thin and sere,
And, dog-eared with its wanderings,
Back to my door the postie brings
The novel of the year,
Some compensating gains I see.
No intimate biography
Will lift my coffin-lid;
No “flicks” adapt that priceless scene
Where Edwin finds Evangeline
Vamping the Tertium Quid;
No school-editions annotate
For hapless kids the roaring spate
Of deathless bardic strains;
No pupil parse and analyse
My gems; no tooled and gilt-edged prize
Contain my Prose Remains;
No lecturer, with “culchaw” stored,
Expatiate to highbrows (bored,
But looking wise) on Me.
So, on the whole, I rest content.
Although my name may not be blent
With Wells and Galsworthy.
VICTORIA.
WAWHERESII.


.... f
f /'-S A )
P
r-vsax
%*,
"■ /-V
( n-
»*0»Xi
%
%V
rood
or*
«-»r*
c>
Tories
8M
REX
Luncheon Cheese
FOCCITT JONES PTV. LTD,
(Division of United Provisions Lhd.) ,
Hiifers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon
Delicious for sandwiches
and savouries.
Produce of Sunny Pastures
Delicious full-cream cheese REX
Luncheon Cheese —its flavour delight-
fully piquant,its food value great; for
it is never new and green or old and
strong, but at the exactly correct stage
of perfect maturity.
In handsome opal jars and 2oz. and 4oz. decorated tins
Other REX Sandwich Delicacies
REX Ham Pate, 2oz. and
3£oz tins.
REX Salmonelle, in glass jars
REX Veal and Tongue Pate
REX Devilled Ham.
REX Ham and Tongu e
REX Veal and Bacon
REX Anchovy Paste
REX Bloater Paste
Always say REX


vs
a
BU
f #
MARTELLS
BRAN
shipped soinr from the coomac oismtcr
will appreciate
tke, delicate
Bouquet and.
mellow flavour of
For They are Jolly Good Fellows.
RESOTS
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S
SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
A nd so say all of us.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILF & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
ti
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
A very rough race for the Moorefield Gold
Cup resulted in Cave Dweller (14 to 1)
scraping home first, a neck in front of
Hustler (10 to 1), Bravado (15 to 1), who
was going faster than either of them when it
was a shade too late, being the same dis-
tance away. The Hustler party vainly pro-
tested on the ground of interference. Cave
Dweller is owned by P. F. and C. J. Moore,
sons of the founder of the Kogarah course,
and has won seven races at Moorefield,
where he is trained by R. W. Mackinnon,
including two Gold Cups and a Thousand —
a remarkable exemplification of the horses-
for-courses maxim. But at least nine of the
17 runners were badly served at the start,
and the second favorite, Genuine, pulled up
lame, while other horses were the victims of
dirty work at the cross roads.
Inasmuch as Cave Dweller’s time, lmin.
40:}sec., was a course record for a mile, Black
Douglas (3 to 1) did well to win a six-
furlongs handicap for three-year-olds in
lmin. 15sec., with Toohey looking round.
Second into the short straight, Black Doug-
las came right away from a field of 17, and
won by six lengths. The rather good-looking
Rossendale-Tinkling gelding has improved
rapidly the last fortnight.
The Moorefield Handicap, like the Gold
Cup, was very much in favor of the book-
makers, victory going to Bavacre, a 10-to-l
shot, second (Tressilian) and third (Fault-
less) being also outsiders. Bavacre had run
poorly over the same distance at Warwick
Farm the previous Saturday, hut here she
was never off the bit. She is a lean brown
mare by Wakeful’s son Baverstock. sire of
so many useful horses, out of Lileacre.
Form points to Whitta (Bst. 121 b.) win-
ning the A.J.C. Challenge Stakes at Rand-
wick on Saturday, but this Page was im-
pressed with Black Douglas’s brilliant finish
at Moorefield, and, with a good run, he may
beat the mare. It is noticeable that Black
Douglas (7st. 21b.) gets a stone from Mar-
garethal in the Challenge Stakes, for which
the filly is fancied, whereas there is only
81b. between them in the Three-year-old
Handicap, for which the weights were issued
after Moorefield. Fancies :—•
Three-year-old Handicap: Loquacious;
next, Casque d’Or.
Challenge Stakes: Black Douglas; next,
Whitta.
January Handicap: Leadight; next,
Honan.
Welter Handicap: Nut Cup; next, Pata-
dawn.
Every favorite was beaten at Epsom
(Yic.) on Saturday, and there were two pro-
tests, one successful, and two falls, one
fatal to a horse—Salutaris.. So punters
had plenty of food for gloomy thought on
their journey home. Their worst blow was
suffered in the Epsom Handicap, for which
the club had provided a £5OO prize. Fins-
bury (5 to 2), Horoscope (9 to 2) and Red
Sea (5 to 1) shared their attention, but
King Tumut (33 to 1) struck the front
early, and was never afterwards headed,
though Horoscope made a fairly close thing
of it, Sacedon bein» third. King Tumut is
a 6-year-old son of King Offa, winner of the
Caulfield Cup, being owned and trained by
C. V. Smith. His record has hitherto been
poor.
Class was fairly well represented among the
18 starters for the Epsom Plate. The smart
Adjong (10 to 1), prominent throughout,
finished too well for Coogee Bay (10 to 1)
and Tullius (8 to 1). Ashley Reed rode her.
Flying Craze (20 to 1) survived a protest
by Belawan’s crowd after the judge had
hoisted the platings for the Purse, but an
appeal has been lodged. Vamparite (7 to 2),
first past the post in the Apprentices’ Handi-
cap, ran wide and blocked Groupa (3 to 1),
whose owner was awarded the race. This
time there was no appeal.
Dave McNamara, the former St. Kilda
footballer, has got hold of a good one in
Berneil (6 to 1), who cleared out with the
youngsters’ race. He is by imported Cis-
tercian-Cenina, and is related on the dam’s
side to Cetigne.
* * * *
“AdoL.” : Onkaparinga (S.A.) R. C., which
races on Easter Monday only, has given a sort
of hint or challenge to the bigger clubs in
that State, announcing that it made a profit
last year, that it will not reduce stakes,
and that its Great Eastern Steeplechase,
which draws all Adelaide and a good bit of
THE ACTUARY.
SECOND: "Keep at ’im, Stonker; ’e’ll be takin’ th’ count soon.”
STONKER: “Yeh; takin’ th’ count uv ’ees winnin’s.”
Melbourne, will still be worth £3OOO. 11. D.
Young, of S.A. Leg. Council, _is re-elected
chairman of the O.R.C. committee.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Armed with a sheaf of overseas creden-
tials and a fairly good boxing equipment,
South African Willie Smith (Bst. 101 b.) met
Archie Cowan (Bst. 41b.) at Sydney Stadium
on Saturday night. The affair was not bril-
liant, though vigorous enough at times. Smith
was superior at in-fighting, but proved no
marvel at long-range scrapping. At this
branch of warfare Cowan held his own, and
often had the visitor guessing. Honors were
even until the sixth round, when Smith’s
extra poundage began to tell. Early in the
eighth a hefty left hook to the jaw dropped
Cowan. Another wallop nine seconds later
sent him down again, and, deciding that the
Australian had been punished enough, the
referee awarded the fight to Smith.
* * *
Melbourne Stadium’s reopening bout be-
tween Filipino Kid Johnson (9st. 41b.) and
Charlie Glasson (Bst. 111 b.) lasted less than
21min. During that time Charles was down
four times from rights to the jaw; then
referee Quirk called it a night. Charles
made the mistake of mixing it with a much
heavier opponent.
The Ins and Outs
Though Don Bradman failed as an open-
ing batsman against South Australia, a good
steady knock by Jackson for 162. was fol-
lowed by 107 from Kippax, who has a ten-
derness for the Adelaide ground. Fairfax
(36), Andrews (32) and Oldfield (26)
helped to bring the N.S.W. total to 402.
Carlton, a left-hander, had the best South
Australian figures, with 4 for 95, Grimmett’s
three victims costing 128, South Aus. made
303. Vic. Richardson (27) again failed to
get going, and bowlers Grimmett (71 n. 0.)
and Wall (43) did best. Fast-bowler Nicholls
took 3 for 67 and Fairfax 4 for 54.
* * * *
A notable feature of England’s first game
against Tasmania at Launceston was a
sparkling 92 by G. Martin, who made 124
in a similar match against Gilligan’s side.
Tassy batted first for 229, England employ-
ing the team’s full bowling strength, save
Geary. Freeman (4-56) and White (3-58)
did most of the attack, while Larwood came
on late to get 2 for 6. At stumps England
had lost 2 for 76, Hammond and Jardine
holding the fort.
$ :i: if: *
“The Invalid”: Not without reason did the
authorities post a picquet on the M.C.G.
pitch (B. 9/l/’29). Some years ago a
member of a Melbourne pennant team was
caught red-handed watering the pitch. And a
South Melbourne barracker thought to help his
friends by getting busy on the wicket with a
pick. George Giffen mentions in his book that
the wicket was watered during the night at
Adelaide When Vernon’s team was playing
a return match against S.A. in 1888. The
visitors scored 382, and the home team, out
for 143, had to follow on; so it was not
clear why the mischief was done. Anyhow
Giff. and Godfrey held the fort until the
wicket recovered, and made a draw of the
game.
“Spare Sub”: By the mercy of Allah, the
Board of Control last week stiffened its
backbone and issued a ukase to the effect
that cricketers who write for the press in
future will not be considered for selection in
representative teams. Ever since Fender
and Rockley Wilson loosed the wrath of a
nation with their cables to England after the
first Test in Sydney in 1920-21, the player-
writer has become an increasing pestilence.
The present cricket season has seen some of
these half-fledged litterateurs carping at and
belittling friend and foe alike, and a feeling
has been generated between players that is
right out of place in a game like cricket.
* # * *
“Tenth Slip”: With the Test rubber
decided, the selectors will now have a chance
of experimenting with an eye to the next tour
of England. One man who should certainly
be given a trial gallop is O’Connor, the
Queensland captain. One of the finest
’keepers in the country, he is an opening
batsman inferior only to Woodfull and Pons-
ford, as his Sheffield Shield record in that
capacity shows. As second ’keeper for the
next Australian Eleven for England he has
far greater claims for consideration than
any of his contemporaries, it being taken for
granted that Oldfield will fill first place.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: There is grim humor in the dis-
covery by some of the cricket experts of the
daily press that Hornibrook, of Queensland,
is an ideal bowler to go to England with the
next team. Seven years ago the left-hander
was one of the best half-dozen bowlers in
Australia, and easily the best left-hander.
After visiting Brisbane, the English cricket
team of 1921 were emphatic in their good
opinion of him, and confidently expected to
meet him in England the following season.
He was ignored by the selectors, and even
when Kelleway’s secession gave them a
chance to repair their mistake they selected
Hendry, then a second-class bat and bowler.
The Queenslander dropped big cricket for a
season or two and has not taken it seriously
for some time, while much of his old skill
with the ball has departed. He would pro-
bably have been a success even with the last
side to visit England, but liei’e again the
selectors deliberately passed him over. As
he is bowling to-day no one with any real
understanding of the game would advocate
his inclusion, even as a forlorn hope.
s|s s|s *
“Listinsect”: The behavior of the crowds
at the M.C.C. during the third Test should
allay for ever the doubts of officials as to
the wisdom of broadcasting descriptions.
When the match started there was by no
means a full house, but shortly after Aus-
tralia went in to bat the stands began to
fill. When the home wickets began to tumble,
however, the crowd dwindled; but when
Kippax and Ryder suddenly changed despair
to radiant hope the biggest attendance ever
assembled was soon suffering the unique dis-
comforts of the ground. So it went on. The
crowd waxed and waned according to
whether some dull couple were tediously
stonewalling or a pair were threatening to
turn the tables on one. side or the other.
The cause of the sudden fluctuations was
the fact that a hundred loud-speakers were
informing the near-by city exactly what it
might expect to get for its bobs.
=H * *
“Colchester”: The deposition of Johnny
Douglas from the captaincy of the Essex
County C. C., which he has held for many
years (B. 12/12/’2B), has been attended by
circumstances which should interest those
who recognised the strong personality under-
lying the rather ungracious manner of the
man who played in 17 Test matches for Eng-
land, and captained one English team in
Australia. The committee of the Essex
Club alleges that it invited Douglas to resign,
He says that he refused to do so, and was
then notified that another man had been
appointed skipper in his place. The com-
mittee, while saying nice things about his
services for the county, asked him to play
with them as often as he could. To that
John has returned what is usually known
as a “qualified answer,” indicating that he
will see them grill in Gehenna first. No
one can blame him. It hardly seems to have
been the way to treat a distinguished
cricketer who for 25 years has been the
mainstay of Essex. The incident takes on
an aspect all the more unpleasant, since
the committee admits Douglas’s charge that
of late years a section of the county team
has been “deliberately disloyal” to its
captain.
* * * *
“Everton”: Lancashire is to give the Aus-
tralian E. A. Macdonald a benefit. The
game selected is not, as might have been
expected, the time-honored clash between
Lancashire and Yorkshire, which always
draws a capacity crowd to Old Trafford,
but the meeting with Middlesex. Not much
note is taken i’ Lancashire of they South-
erners, so Mac hasn’t been'given the pick of
the fixture basket. He deserves it and a bit
more, for it is mainly his bowling that has
made the Red Rose champion county for
three years in succession.
(Continued on page 37.)
“Aileron”: An endurance air flight which
knocked all previous figures galley-west
ended in California last week when the
American Army monoplane Question Mark
came down, owing to one of the engines stalk
ing, after 150 hr. 46min. in the air. The
’plane was fuelled at intervals by a mother-
’plqne, which fed its offspring with petrol
through a tube from above. The figures com-
pletely obliterate former attempts at en-
durance flights by heavier-than-air machines,
while they also beat the previous best for
“all-types” aircraft, the 118 hours put up
by the French dirigible Dixmude.
* " sj« ❖
“Balbus”: Further evidence of the decay
of the tin-hare industry in Britain is seen
in the cabled news that the huge Carntyne
track near Glasgow is being converted for
chariot-racing, an alleged sport occasionally
seen at Australian agricultural shows, and
one much in vogue at American county fairs.
The drivers are to be paid a retainer and
winning and losing fees, as in the case of
jockeys. Betting, it is stated, will be legal,
so, presumably, the customary ramps will
flourish as freely at “the chariots” as they
did at the dogs.
* * * *
Arne Borg won the 440 yd. free-style cham-
pionship of N.S.W. in the Domain Baths
on Saturday in smin. 5 1-Ssec.- —6sec. out-
side Charlton’s best. Noel Ryan, the Syd-
ney schoolboy swimmer, was second, break-
ing his own previous best with smin. 20
3-ssec.
BLINKERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.
“The blinkin’ ’orse,” he said. “I tell you fair
’E could ’ave won if they’d been on the
square.
’Ow in the blazes was a bloke to know
That ’e was only out to take the air?
I thought I ’ad the goods and planked
me dough
Upon the blighter. But the jock.. I’ll swear
’E got ’is little bit for ridin’ dead,
For migiity soon ’e ’ad ’im by the ’ead.
W’ere could ’e finish except down the course,
The blinkin’ ’orse?
“The blinkin’ ’ound,” he said, “ ’e looked a
rare
Good thing to beat 'is rivals to the ’are;
I ’ad the tip ’e’d make an ’oly show
Of all the other mongs assembled there.
I thought ’e ’ad an easy row to ’oe,
Fair ’ome an’ dried with ’alf a length to
spare.
I’d like to know on wot ’e breakfasted
That turned ’is legs so suddenly to lead,
An’ left me poorer for an ’ard-earned pound,
The blinkin’ ’ound!
“The blinkin’ books,” he said, “wot do they
care
About the crosses that we punters bear?
Small wonder di’monds in their breastpins
glow
An’ fifteen-guinea suits are theirs to wear.
With such a soft and easy pitch below _
Tlicir troubles about ’Eaven’s golden stair!
On porter’ouse with oyster sorce they’re fed
While we must ’ustle for a crust o’ bread.
They never see their pot upset by crooks,
The blinkin’ books!”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


ACKNOWLEDGED LEADERS IN THE SPORT WORLD
Mick Jimmcnj
O'
SPORTING RIFLES
that bring down
the big fellows
Model 92, Lever Action Repeating rifle
No. 21.—WINCHESTER REPEATING CAR-
BINE, 1892 MODEL-
-25 /20, 32, 38, or 44 calibre, central fire, full or half maga-
ines, 20 - inch round barrel ; weight, about ,
sfib £6/12/6
No. 22.-*-WINCHESTER REPEATING RIFLE.
1892 MODEL—
-25/20, 32, 38, 44 calibre, central fire, full or \ magazine, 24-
inch barrel; length over all, inches; weight, about _. .
71b. Octagon barrel £7 /”/"
No. 23.—WINCHESTER REPEATING RIFLE,
MODEL 53
25/20 or 32 W.C.F., 22in round nickel steel barrel, lever
action similar to 1892 model, handles the ordinary cartridge;
also the special Hi-speed ; weight, about ,
61b . £7/12/6
No. 24.—WINCHESTER REPEATING RIFLE.
1894 MODEL-
-32/40 or 38/55 calibre, 26-inch octagon barrels;
weight, about 81b *B/3/“
No. 29.— REMINGTON REPEATING HAM-
MERLESS RIFLE, MODEL 25A—
-25/20 and 32 W.C.F. calibres, 24in round barrel, slide action,
side ejector, ladder rear and bea'd front sight; handles the
ordinary cartridge, also the special Hi-Speed; weight, _ . .
about 511 b £o/“/“
No. 38. SAVAGE SPOR T E R RIFLE.
MODEL 23C—-
25/20 or 32 W.C.F. calibre, 25 - inch . .
barrel £5/5/-
Carriage Paid on Above Rifles.
High-Grade
Hunting Knives
No. S.—THE “BOWIE” ENGLISH
HUNTING KNIFE.
Made of finest quality steel; this is a genuine Bowie
pattern knife, having stag handle and double metal guard
with sheath.
sin blade 6/6 . . 6in. blade 7/6
(Postage on any Knife 6d.)
The Shooting Catalogue and Guide is post free
on request.
ric
immons
Ttd
LLu
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket, Sydney
AND AT BRISBANE.
“Australia’s Largest Sports Outfitters.”
SUNSHINE
CULTIVATING
AND SEEDING
MACHINERY
U
\
THE “SUNDERCUT” STUMP JUMP
DISC CULTIVATING PLOUGH
1 0-disc
1 4-disc
cuts
cuts
feet.
feet.
Unequalled for cultivating hard set fallow,
or fallow covered by heavy weed growth,
paddy-melon, stinkwort, thistles, etc.
Does splendid work in virgin Mallee soils.
Levers fitted for team or tractor pull.
U
X
m
THE “SUNTYNE” COMBINED GRAIN
AND FERTILIZER DRILL AND
SPRING TYNE CULTIVATOR.
17 tyne, sows 8 rows, covering 5 ft.
25 tyne, sows 12 rows, covering 7 ft.
29 tyne, sows 14 rows, covering B^ft.
3 3 tyne, sows 16 rows, covering 9? ft.
41 tyne, sows 20 rows, covering 12ft.
49 tyne, sows 24 rows, covering 14ft.
Cultivates and sows to any desired depth.
Forms a compact seed bed with thoroughly
pulverised mulch. Tractor Hitch and
Lever can be fitted when ordered.
Write for descriptive literature, prices
and particulars of extended terms.
H. V. McKAY PTY..LTD
Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine.
Branches and Agencies:
664 BOURKE STREET WEST, MELBOURNE.
95-97 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
Corner MURRAY AND KING STREETS, PERTH.
H. V. McKAY (QUEENSLAND), LTD., STANLEY STREET, SOUTH
BRISBANE.


w
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O. Proprietor:
One Minute Railway Station, f jyj_ AHERN.
One Minute Wharves.
I
i
as
IlfiS" 1 !!!^:
'ion-
aann
-Ajilro/njj
Wlml
06^
jhHhIU
Huge stocks must be cleared
500 Boys’ Suits
—at a sacrifice!
NEVER was the need for clearance so urgent—never were
prices Cut so ruthlessly. Boys' Australian Woollen Tweed
Cotswold Suits, unsurpassed for wearing qualities, dark
Grey shades. Coat has 2 side and one breast pocket. Knickers
one breast pocket. Knickers
have plain knees. Sizes to fit
boys 6to 14 years. QA /
Usually %J\J I ~
SALE PRICE „
23/8
Boys’
Cots-
wold
Suit
»\
m.
*2*
I*4 »
! '
ii
«L
! S
Youths’ Suits
All Wool Australian Tweed Sac Suits
for youths. Dark grey shades. S.B. style.
Coat, Vest and Trousers ready to wear.
Fit youths 14 to 18 years.
Usually
59/6
SALE
PRICE
49/9
Pyjamas
Boys’ and Youths’Flannel-
ette Pyjamas, neat stripe
effects. Comfortable
roomy cut. Usually
6/11
SALE
PRICE
4/11
ALSO: —5/11 Boys’ Zephyr Golf
Shirts, 4/6; 4/6 Boys’ Broadway
Ties, 1/11 ; 3/11 Boys’Golf Hose
2/8; 17/11 Youths' Felt Hats,
14/11 etc., etc.
Postage paid to your door.
Thousands of others, write for big
Sale Book—Free. Kindly address
your letter to Desk R.
ST. LTD. SYDNEY
IN P
“ The World’* Largest Men’* and Boy*’ Wear Stor*
FULL OF
VIM AND
VIGOUR
Good-Bye
Rheumatism
No More Backache, Swollen Joints, or 'Weak, Tired Feeling!
The cause of backache and rheumatic aches and
pains is uric acid. Drive the uric poisons from
the system and you are fit and well at once. To
do this the one sure, safe way is to take Harri-
son’s Pills, the signed remedy of a London doctor.
No matter how many things have failed you, a
few doses of Harrison’s Pills will make a marked
improvement, clearly showing their wonderful
Power of restoring youth to ageing men and
women. One user says: “Never known such
quick relief. They soothe all the pain away and
leave you entirely rejuvenated. Since taking
them I have felt years younger.” Remember:
there’s nothing to equal this remedy tor rheu-
matism, lumbago, sciatica, aches and pains,
swollen joints, or bladder and urinary disorders.
If YOU want to feel 10 to 20 years younger
quickly, just get a package of Harrison’s Pills
from your chemist—three sizes, at 2/-, 8/- and
5/-. Money back if not pleased with the very
first bottle. Amalgamated Laboratories, Sydney.
Harrison's
Backache
& Bladder
Pills
Remove the
CAUSE
The Ins and Outs
‘‘Hamer”: Don Bradman’s cricketing
ability has landed him into a cushy contract
with Mick Simmons. From February 1 lie
takes charge of the cricket section of the
firm’s activities, with a right to all the time
off he wants for matches. In addition, the
G.P.S. sportsmasters are being asked to
accept his free services as a coach.
* * * *
The English cricketers, now in Tasmania,
filled in the interval after the first Test with
a couple of holiday matches at Geelong and
Bendigo. The first was a one-day affair, but
in the two-days’ match at Bendigo, the home
side came near to being the only Australian
team to get the visitors out twice in a match
since they arrived in Australia. England
made 305 and 255 for 0, and Jardine should
have been out just on time. He hit a ball to
leg, but the umpire, getting in front of the
waiting fieldsman, took the catch. Quaint
things happen in country cricket —especially
after lunch.
* * * *
To the end of the third Test Hammond
heads the batting averages for England with
111 for 5 completed innings, an aggregate of
555 and a highest score of 251. Woodfull
tops the Australian list with 04.0 for 5
completed innings and an aggregate of 323.
His best score is 111. Among the English
bowlers, Geary’s 12 wickets have cost 22.25
runs each, while Larwood has the biggest bag,
IG, averaging 25.5. Far and away the best
of the Australian trundlers is Blackie with
11 wickets costing 28.50 each. Grimmett
has taken 15, but his average is 40. Com-
parisons of the two sets of bowling figures
discover the story of the Tests to date.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Instead of the hoped-for cur-
tailment of Kathleen Mavourneen cricket we
are to see it drawn out still longer. The
Marylebone O. 0., which has manfully adhered
to three-day Tests for years, has weakened
at the jingle of the guinea, and in future the
games in England will last four days. If
no decision has been arrived at after the
fourth match, the last will be played out.
The first four matches will begin on a Friday,
and the fifth on a Saturday.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The Englishmen are making
no secret of the fact that they are out to
win all five Tests. If they do, England will
have drawn level with Australia, with 47
C. H. BRIEN, part-owner of Kingsfield
(N.S.W.) Stud, who died in Sydney the
other day.
wins, and established an English record
for the series since the five-game rubber was
first adopted in 1894-95. The grand slam has
been done only once before, -when Arm-
strong’s side downed J. W, H. T. Douglas’s
men in 1920-21.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Bradman’s performance in the
second innings of the Test in Melbourne was
the severest criticism of the Australian selec-
tors’ penchant for old age. His 112 was
notched by the youngest man to make a century
in Tests. Clem Hill was two months short
of 21 when he made 188 on the same ground
in 1898, the previous record. The Coota-
mundra-Bowral boy is six months younger.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The decision of the Board of
Control to publish the teams for future Tests
at least seven days before the start of the
match will be welcomed by prospective
players as well as the public. It is upset-
ting to a player to be uncertain as to
whether he may not have to abandon his pri-
vate affairs at a moment’s notice to scoot
hotfoot across Australia, as happened in a
couple of recent instances. For those prac-
tically living on the game it does not matter
so much; but there are still a few top-
notchers with other interests than cricket
to attend to.
Racquet and Bawl
“Kooyong”: The outstanding feature of
Gerald Patterson’s official report of the
Davis Cup tour is the disclosure of the fact,
hitherto unknown to the general public, that
Jack Crawford is a sufferer from bronchial
asthma, a distressing affliction. Patterson’s
account of the attack Crawford experienced
just before the first Davis Cup match with
Italy at Genoa makes it plain that the N.S W.
hope went on the courts for his singles game
a very sick man; so much so that after his
entirely understandable failure, under the
conditions, Patterson had to take his place
in the doubles alongside Hopman. Everyone
will sympathise with Crawford in liis bad
luck, but an explanation is certainly due to
the public from the Australian tennis autho-
rities. To send a player liable to this ever-
recurring affliction of the breathing on such
an important expedition was a piece of folly
that seems to have met with the reward it
asked for. Much of the criticism levelled at
the young man would have been silenced at
once if the authorities had published the
facts, which must have been known to them.
$ $ * $
“Top Spin”: Australia scored a minor
triumph in tennis last week, when Esna
Boyd won the women’s final at the Cannes
tournament. Her opponent was Mrs. Sat-
terthwaite, one of the leading Englishwomen
in the game, while the quality of the entry
generally is shown by the fact that the final
of the men’s singles was fought out by the
Italian Davis Cup cracks, De Morpugo and
Stefani.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: Though Australia has decided
to stand down, Canada lias entered for the
next Davis Cup. But the Canucks are on a
much easier court than this country. Their
“zone” is right on the front doorstep, so to
speak, and the travelling and expense in-
curred in the preliminaries are trivial com-
pared with that Australia has to face with
a long journey to America or Europe before
setting in.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: , The New South
Wales tennis heads have just completed
one of the most ticklish jobs that fall to
their lot annually—the grading of the women
tennis players. Every year after the list
has been issued those responsible, like Dick
Swiveller, have to go two miles round to get
over the way, lest they should fall into the
clutches of some lurking Amazonoitte wanting
to know why she was ranked lower than the
other cat. Generally speaking this year’s tip
off is a good one, with Daphne Akhurst top-
ping the list.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Deejay”: On the subject of crows steal-
ing golf balls (B. 2/l/’29), it seems as if
Australians are behind the times in not
training the birds to collect them for re-sale.
If it can be done in France at St. Germains,
at a profit, well, Australians are just as good
leg-pullers. In the crowded walks of present-
day life here seems a lucrative business
opening.
* * * *
“Claypan”: Some freak golf was seen in
Queensland recently, when W. F. 11. Boyce
played 108 holes on eight different courses
between daylight and dark. A start was made
at Sandy Gallop, near Ipswich, at early dawn,
and the itinerary was Ipswich, Goodna,
Indooroopilly, Sandgate, Hamilton, Wynnum
and Yeerongpilly, four of the courses being
9 holes and the others the full 18. The
round was covered in 492 strokes, or a
trifle over 4J strokes per hole —dashed good
going; in any circumstances. The player,
who is 60 up on Father Time, finished as
fresh as a one-pip lieutenant.
* * * *
“Baffy”: J. Y. East, well remembered in
Sydney and Melbourne as professional to
several of the leading golf clubs, returned to
Australia the other day on a visit. He left
these shores some years ago in company with
Joe Kirkwood, and since then has been em-
ployed by several of the leading American
clubs, including the Longmeadow in Massa-
chusetts, where he plays and coaches.
Most of his golfing activities nowadays lie in
the direction of designing golf clubs, and he is
one of the world’s acknowledged experts on
the subject.
* * * *
“Grafton”: An old sports book of my
grand-dad’s, written by a professional gambler,
gives a quaint picture of golf in 1817 : “This
game of Goff is the favorite amusement in
Scotland. It is played with clubs and balls.
Of clubs there are five sorts used by profi-
cients, viz.,- the common club, when the ball
lies on the ground; the scraper and half-
scraper, when in long grass; the spoon, when
in a hollow; the heavy iron club, when on
the surface of shingle or sandy ground. The
balls are made of horse leather, stuffed with
feathers, and boiled. Light balls are used
when playing with the wind, and heavy ones
against it. The balls which are played off at
the beginning of the game must not be
changed until the next hole is won, even if
they should happen to burst.”
* * * *
“Mid Iron”: The camaraderie of golfers
has lately been illustrated in the aid given
by his brother-professionals to T. Daniels,
sometime professional of the Killara (N.S.W.)
Golf Club, and nowadays a notable club
maker. Stricken by a severe illness the
Digger golfer had to go into Randwick Hos-
pital over the Christmas season, and is still
there. His friends in the professional ranks
got to work and provided a sum which gave
his family a welcome lift. The Professional
Golfers’ Association is still doing its best
for the very sick man, but it will welcome
any assistance from all professors of the
Royal and Generous game.
* * * *
“H.J.K.”: As an example of the old
Yorkshire saying “It’s dogged as does it,”
G. C. Meader, of the Riversdale (Vic.) Golf
Club, may be put in a class by himself.
Meader took to golf in earnest about 30
years ago, after building a house abutting on
the old Surrey Hills course,. There early
dawn often found him playing a few holes to
keep his hand in. Now, well on to his 73rd
year, this old subaltern of the Colonel is
threatened with a serious curtailment of his
minus 24 handicap, a winning 66, for a
monthly medal, having been a-bit too hot
for the handicappers. Meader claims that
he should have been on scratch 25 years ago,
when he partnered A. E. Gill, whose net 72
is immortalised by a card that hangs in a
gilt frame in the Victoria Golf Club’s
pavilion.
* * * *
“St. Andra”; Though it may seem to be
stating a paradox, there is no autocracrv
so omnipotent as the democracy of golf. The
other day I was submitted to the attention
of a caddy who has the habit —to me a hateful
on,e —of hanging a half-smoked cigarette from
the outer edge of his nether lip. How the
deuce he manages to do it. and why the
cigarette is always half smoked, naturally
give rise to those disconcerting imaginings
which put a man right off his game. Mad-
dened at last, after a run of calamity due to
inability to concentrate, I demanded that he
throw the beastly thing away. ‘‘Not on yer
life,” said he. “I’m ’ere as a - caddie ; not on e
ot yer shycolergist experts.”
(Continued on page 39.)


A
m
%
m
m
&
i
r
-'in
r>'*'* , »(«p""S"“T > "™1
|--~ \\> ;;A 's 5
hats have
an indefinable air of
style, and their smart
appearance cannot fail
to appeal to the well-
Pressed man. Their
colors are fast and their shapes
permanent.
avxefcelcL
are ih eir Merits ivi ik K
one
Obtainable at all the
leading Men’s Stores
A PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT HATS PTY. LTD.
F 4


BRITISH
BRITISH
BALL & ROLLER
BEARINGS
RANSOME & MARLES BEARING CO., LTD. (ENG-
LAND), has always produced only one quality
bearing—the best.
These British Bearings are used by more than 80%
of British Motor-Car Manufacturers.
R. & M. Ball and Roller Bearings are made of the
finest materials obtainable, with the same care and
precision -as the works of a fine watch, and are guar-
anteed against defects in material and workmanship.
Made in 300 types and over 3000 sizes to fit British,
American and Continental Cars.
Exclusive ,Commonwealth Agents and
Distributors ;
GARDNER, WAERN 8 CO. PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE: 481 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
NEWCASTLE: Hunter Street West.
South Australian Agents: ADELAIDE HARD-
WARE CO., LTD., Flinders St., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: W. & G. GENDERS PTY.,
LTD., Ilobart and Launceston.
Queensland Agents: EVANS, DEAKIN Sc 00.
LTD., Brisbane and Townsville.
West Australian Agents: ( Automotive )
COVENTRY MOTOR CO., LTD., Perth
£
Jfll
m
dm,* dk
'HE showcard reproduced above gives an
1 excellent idea of the smart lines on which
Battersby soft felts are built. Spring usually means
a new hat, and we suggest that the large assortment
of new Spring models—bowlers and soft felts—will
meet your every requirement.
Battersby Hats are known in all parts of the world
for their style, finish and value.
FOR MEN
Sold by the Best Hatters
Actual Makers: Battersby & Co., Ltd., Stockport.
For further particulars, write —
SYDNEY: Box 1655JJ, G.P.O.
MELBOURNE: Box 364, G.P.O.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Box 763.
THE SYDNEY MOTOR SHOW.
Sydney’s Motor Show, now an annual
affair, gets bigger, brighter and busier
every year. Even on the opening afternoon
scores signed on the dotted line and sales-
men wore the aspect of pussy-cats that know
where the canary has gone.
There’s nothing very revolutionary or sen-
sational in the show. More and more atten-
tion is being paid to beauty of finish and
refinement of detail by both Britisli and
American manufacturers, and the Australian
body-makers, who have been set the task
of worthily clothing magnificently appointed
chassis, have done it. The finest examples
of body-work are Australian-made. A
notable example is a huge 25-80 h.p. Sun-
beam saloon, all black, priced at £1595,
probably the most expensive car in the show.
Vauxhalls, which, like the Sunbeams, asso-
ciate with princes and the aristocracy, are
now to be had in quite moderate-priced
models. A sporty-looking 20-60 h.p. road-
ster is ticketed £635.
American makers present a dazzling array
of new models. In the G.M.C. group pride
of place is taken by a Cadillac sedan, a huge
black monster that doesn’t leave much
change out of £1500. A particularly hand-
some La Salle coupe at £1020 and a fleet
of roomy-looking Buicks, completely new in
appearance and priced around about £430,
have had many admirers. The new Pontiac
Six is a big, powerful car that looks remark-
ably good value for the money, and is
equipped with every new gadget the G.M.C.
people could think of. The new Oaklands
and Chevrolets are prettier than their pre-
decessors; the Chev. at £205 is about the
lqwest-priced car on view.
Also in the moderate-price class are the
new Oldsmobiles, of remarkably artistic
finish, and improved Hudsons and their
smaller brother,_ the Essex. Very rakish are
the Willys-Knight sports roadsters and
tourers, in daring color-schemes—the only
example of sleeve-valve engined motors pre-
sent. The new line of Whippets at £212
pack a tremendous lot of comfort and good
engineering into small compass.
In the Chrysler group, in addition to the
latest editions of the Chrysler, exceptionally
handsome and powerful, are two newcomers
—the De Soto, a distinctive Six superfinely
finished in every detail, and possessing a
motor for which wonderful things aye
claimed by those who have driven it; and
the Plymouth, a sort of young 4-cylinder
cousin of the Chrysler line that sells at well
under £300. Dodge Brothers are represented
by the Senior, Victory and Standard Sixes,
all quiet-looking, dignified cars. Studebaker’s
line, including various models of the Presi-
dent Eight, the Director, the Commander and
the Erskine, range in price from £315 (the
ticket on the Erskine tourer) to round about
the £1000 mark. They include some excep-
tionally handsome bodies. Packard cars,
unaltered in outward appearance save for
small details, are in 6-cylinder and two 8-
cylinder styles. A Custom Eight sedan at
£1410 holds pride of place.
A lot of interest pins to the new Nash
model, the “400,” priced at £620. A motor
of remarkable flexibility is a feature, and
the solid engineering work commands respect.
In the truck section, Leylands, the noted
British makers, show some of their sturdy
vehicles, and proudly display, dismembered,
sections of their internal economy. The
G.M.C. line is represented by four styles
of truck, the latest of which, the “Big
Brute,” looks exactly like its name. Graham
Bros.. products in the truck and commercial-
van line are notable for refinement of finish
and a lot of consideration for the driver’s
comfort and convenience.
Speaking generally, an almost universal
feature of the new American and Canadian
cars is the installation of exceptionally
large and massive radiator caps, and the
great amount of artistic skill devoted to
radiator and dashboard design. In many
instances the array of instruments before
the driver, instead of being in circular frames,
peer through rectangles, and look very smart.
There’s a big and representative motor-
cycle section, the two-wheelers ranging from
midgets of scarce 1 h.p. to monsters of 9 to
10 h.p. English and American makers appear
to have been adopting each other’s best
ideas, to mutual benefit.
From the sporting standpoint the most
interesting exhibit in the show is a tiny 9-
h.p. Riley. This torpedo-shaped pygmy has
done close on 100 m.p.h. on Brooklands track,
and is guaranteed to do 80 m.p.h. on the
road. Its color is a vicious green, so pedes-
trians know what to keep an eye open for.
Used-cars have been so beautifully painted
and polished that many mistake them for
new. They include what look like wonderful
bargains. And probably are. But you never
really know a cow till you have milked her.
Exceptionally interesting is the astonish-
ingly wide array of accessories and parts
made by Australian manufacturers. Every-
thing for the car except motors can be, and
is made in this country ; the workmanship is
of an exceptionally high order.
N.S.W. Premier Bavin, who opened the
show on Friday afternoon, was counted out
by a crowd that had been waiting for close
on an hour after the advertised time for the
show to open, but before that happened he
had made a good speech on the subject of
rail and road rivalry, and explained that
most of the highways his Government is
spending money on act as railway-feeders
and don’t parallel the roads the iron horse
runs on.
In this year’s show the proportion of
exhibits that come from other than English-
speaking countries is smaller than usual. In
past years German and Belgian manufac-
turers have been represented, and at least
three Italian makes of car have been staged,
but in the latest aggregation the Fiat seems
to be the only Continental example.
Australian tyres are well to the fore.
Dunlop, Perdriau, Rapson, Goodyear and
Barnet Glass are names that glisten in
white or gold letters on the shoes of almost
every car on the stands.
\
Miscellaneous Sporting
Spencer Crackanthorp, who has again won
the Australian chess championship, learned
play almost as soon as he could talk, his
father being an enthusiast. Crackanthorp,
one of the N.S.W. representatives at the
Perth tourney, finished with a score of Si
games, and Younkman (W.A.) was second
with 8 games; this is the first time since
the days of Viner that a Westralian has
occupied such a high position. Cecil Purdy,
son of Sydney’s Health Officer, came third.
# ❖ *
“Ula” : Victoria is acclaiming a potential
Weissmuller in young Dudley Trood, a Gipps-
land giant. He got over 90yds. in three laps
at the Sale baths the other day in 52sec. dead
—excellent time for a comparatively raw
novice. Just on six feet high, he turns the
scale at 13 stone. It is expected that he will
win the State sprint title.
* ■* * *
“Amateur Pro”: A Sydney writer took
it upon himself to insinuate the other day
that Charlton refused to meet Arne Borg
because lie was afraid. The cases are
widely dissimilar. Charlton is a lad who has
yet to learn how to make a living. He has
already wasted too much time on amateur
swimming, which, as everyone knows, carries
no remuneration. Borg, on the other hand,
can afford to continue swimming in every
quarter of the globe, since he is evidently a
man of considerable means. How else could
he have the opportunity to put up records
all over Europe, and tour America, .Japan,
Australia, aud anywhere else that takes his
fancy? He is permitted by the International
Federation of Amateur Sport to accept tra-
velling and accommodation expenses from
those he visits .on swimming tours, plus a
maximum cash allowance of ss. per day.
Amateur swimming under those regulations Is
obviously no game for a poor man.
* * * *
“Tinker’s Curse” : Curious how one fatal
flaw in swimming records has been over-
looked even by officials. Record-holders
claim to swim, say, the 100 yards under 50
seconds. The trouble is they don’t swim
100 yards. Jumping off a board with
the impetus of a dive reduces the actual dis-
tance swum by at least two or three yards.
Cyclists, runners and scullers have to nego-
tiate the full distance without the advantage
of a flying start. Until swimmers fall into
line with these athletes and swim the full
course all the so-called are just
foolishness.
* * * *
“Turn”: Johnny Weissmuller must be
added to the list of Olympic champions who
have turned professional. Certainly John
differed from many of his lilywhite confreres
in that he remained an amateur long after
he had achieved fame, instead of diving
hurriedly into the cash while the publicity
was good. Still, it is probable that he found
his popularity as an amateur, with its con-
sequent demand for his services in “exhibi-
tions,” quite as satisfying as does the top-
notch tennis amateur. Weissmuller is to
coach for a Japanese university, and Marie
Norelius and Helen Meaney, the diver, both
Olympic, champions, are to follow him into
the professional ranks. One doubts whether
it is worth while to spend a lot of money on
coddling athletes for the amateur Olympic
Games in order that they may acquire enough
limelight to embark upon lucrative profes-
sionalism immediately the Games are over.
* * * #
“Blade”: As predicted (B. 2/l/’29), the
Mosman Club crew has been chosen to repre-
sent N.S.W. in the inter-State eight-oar
race for the King’s Cup at Perth. There
was no other choice. For some years past
Mosman has been unbeatable in N.S.W., and
has for the last two seasons gone down to
Melbourne and lifted the Grand Challenge
Cup from all-comers at the Henley-on-Yarra
regatta. Whether Mosman’s ascendancy has
been good for, N.S.W. rowing is another
matter. Nevertheless, the choice of this
crew will inspire the hope that N.S.W. will
lift the Cup. It is 18 years since the State
held it, the last victory being gained in
Sydney in 1911.
* * * *
“Minto”: “Them Sydney spielers is ’ard
ter beat,” said Bluey, reaching for the whisky
■bottle. “Back in ’9B 'me and Shakspeare
Joe come down ter Sydney ’n set in at er
pub. First night we lands Joe gets full and
starts flashin’ ’is money. ‘Don’t do that,’
says someone; ‘ther shrewdies might get
yer.’ Joe flies off the ’andle. Takin’ er ,
golden goblin from ’is pocket ’e puts it in
’is mouth. ‘l’ve ’eard all erbout these Syd-
ney spielers,’ ’e growls; ‘l’m goin’ ter try
’em out. If any cow can get that quid in-
side er ’arf-’our I’ll make ’im a present of
it.’ With that Joe walks out. Cornin’ back
in er quarter of an hour ’e sees a crowd
outside the pub round er newsboy lookin’
for somethin’. Just as Joe pulls up er
copper comes to light and asks the news-
boy what’s the lurk. ‘I lost er sovereign
me boss give me to buy papers with,’ whines
the kid. Then lookin’ up he points to Joe.
‘An’ that bloke there, ’e’s got it in ’is
mouth.’ Now, wouldn’t that Ned Kelly
yer?”
* * * #
“Visa”: The refusal of the German ath-
letic authorities to permit Dr. Peltzer to
visit Australia (B. 9/l/’29) is due to the
rule of the International Athletic Federation
which forbids amateurs undertaking athletic
tours outside their own country for more
than. 21 days at a time without special per-
mission. Rebels against the rule are re-
fused a clearance, and any organisation
affiliated with the Federation which permits
them to compete is due for a “please ex-
plain.” That permission is granted occa-
sionally is seen in the case of the Swedish
amateur swimmer Borg, who, after a world
tour, is now in Australia. The fact that he
is competing in this country is in itself a
proof that his papers as an amateur are in
order, otherwise, the N.S.W. and Australian
swimming authorities would be asking for
trouble.
* * * *
“ J.C.” : Apropos of the methods of Ameri-
can universities in securing good athletic
talent (B. 26/9/’2B), it would seem that the
game is not unknown at the older English
universities. An Australian who arrived in
Cambridge without any college to which to
go, owing to a loss of letters in the mails,
was admitted into the chief athletic college
at about five minutes’ notice when it be-
came known that he had played football for
his university and State. Before this he
had been referred from one college to an-
other until he was heartily sick of it.


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
jlfttitaitiltf
r Jr v
SMART
BAR
BROAD
SHOE.
Diamond punched waist
and strap. Sewn soles.
In Black Patent, Black
Box Calf or Tan Calf.
SPECIAL JANUARY
PRICES;
7 to 10
9/11
2 to 3
12/11
11 to 1
10/11
4 to 5
13/11
Wribe Pot Catalog X
FOR LADIES * CHILDREN
189 PITT ST. 22 STRAND. 105 KING ST
Monday to Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/6.
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’Hote Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 15/-, or
a la carte, minimum, 15/-
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Jack Woods’ Ambassadors Dance
Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.ro. ’Phone: M 4131.
Melbourns
Chatter
The social dullness of the week was broken
by the polo tournament for the Somers Cup.
Strangely enough, though Melbourne idolises
horses, the general run of race-goers do not
attend polo matches, and at Moonee Valley
the gallery is made up mostly of relatives
and friends of the players. Lord Somers
has done his best to stimulate interest in
the game by giving the challenge bauble,
and by taking an active part as a member
of the Moonee Valley A team. The ground
was good, and afternoon-tea was laid in a
cool closed-in shed. The tournament began
in cool weather, but the second day’s play
was hampered by a high wind and much dust.
Lady Somers was an onlooker, wearing an
apple-green hat with a sports suit of rose
beige hue. Mrs. E. H. Davidson, a symphony
in Chanel red, accompanied her. Colonel
Davidson, the Governor’s secretary, played
for Moonee Valley C instead of in the v.r.
team on this occasion. In the semi-circle of
lined-up motor-cars were Mrs. Russell Grim-
wade, arrayed in willow green, and her sister-
in-law, Mrs. Charlie Kelly of Caramut. There
was strong representation of the Winter
Irving clan, whose name has long been asso-
ciated with the expensive pastime. Mrs.
John Winter Irving came with her daughters,
Mrs. Bruce Mead and Mrs. Geoffrey Heath,
and Mrs. Stanhope W. Irving of Nagambi
and Janet and Mary of another branch of
the family were there. The Jim Fairbairns
of Mt. Elephant, the S. F. Manns from
Caramut, Mrs. Kenneth Syme from her
N.S.W. squattage, the Norman Armytages
from Deriiliquin, Mrs. Douglas Boyd and
her sister Mrs. Jennings were others who
took an interest in the. play.
The final round of the Somers Junior Cup
on Thursday was a close go, the Governor’s
team, Moonee Valley A, beating Caramut,
the first holders, by one goal. The game
was willing and interest was keen, barrackers
for both teams honking motor-horns by way
of encouragement. Lady Somers was not
present, so the handing over of the trophy
and the miniature silver cups that form
permanent souvenirs of a win was deputed
to Mrs. John Winter Irving, who had as
bodyguard Chairman Alister Clark and« sec-
retary A. V. Ivewney, of the Moonee Valley
Racing Club. Someone produced a bottle of
fizz, and his Ex. passed his brimming cup
to J. A. Affleck, captain of the defeated
Caramuts. Lord Stonehaven was a spec-
tator, also Lady Hillingdon, who was in
ensemble of mushroom pink. Mrs. J. Winter
Irving’s green and white spotted gown
appeared beneath a natural kasha coat,
topped by a fawn felt hat. Other spectators
were Colonel and Mrs. Davidson, Mrs. W.
R. Napier, the George Chirnsides; Mrs.
Harry Creswick, wearing a black hat and
coat and skirt with a glimpse of pink;
daughter Sheila ; the Robert Landales; Mr.
and Mrs. J. Hele (Adelaide) and the Harry
Whitings. lan Currie, of Seven Creeks, who
met with an accident during the first day’s
play, was there with Mrs. Currie to see the
finish. The Governor’s team included Major
R. H. Nimmo. Captain D. W. D. Nicholl
and G. A. (“Beau”) Fairbairn.
The final match between beaten teams was
a left-over item for Friday morning,- when
Moonee Valley C and Camperdown tried
conclusions and Camperdown won. Lady
Somers passed over the trophies to Captain
J. Manifold and the other members of his
team. A small private dance at State Govern-
ment House was about the only social event
linked to the polo.
The three days’ tennis tournament at
Ivooyong courts, in which British and Vic-
torian cracks competed, could not have been
very profitable to the Tennis Association.
Attendances were relatively small, though
some fine play was witnessed, especially in
the last match of the doubles on Saturday.
The weather for the final day was delightful,
and the big arena was cheered by a scat-
tering of variegated parasols and frocks and
millinery in which yellow and red tones
predominated. Outstanding sunshades in-
cluded one of maroon velvet splashed with
oranges and green leaves *and another that
was rainbow tinted. In the special reserve
was Mrs. Norman Brookes, arrayed in white
silk and a white hat with a black band.
Gerald Patterson’s wife wore a faint pink
frock topped by a berry red shady hat, and
Mrs. T. A. Patterson chose magpie effects
in satin with a small black hat. Mrs. Arthur
Sprague accompanied Mrs. Bob and Mrs.
Frank Schlesinger. Champion Mrs. R. R.
Harper looked on in attire of navy blue with
a touch of bois-de-rose. Mrs. W. J. Ryan,
from the Malay States, revisiting her honie
town, was another spectator. Mrs. Clive
Miller; the L. Bakers; Vera de Bavay, with
a leaf green hat above a white sleeveless
frock; and Joan Hill, lately back from Eng-
land, who wore yellow shades that ranged
from lemon to tan, were other enthusiasts.
Mrs. John Richmond and daughter Joan,
Sybil Irving and the Arthur Prices were
tea-drinkers in the club house at the in-
terval.
A series of small social gatherings has
been revolving around Mrs. Claude Palmer
and Mrs. Tom McKellar, who are on the
eve of a European tour. A bridge tea,
arranged by Mrs. Law Smith, Mrs. Aitken
and Mrs. Leland Greene, met with an
eleventh-hour interruption by the sudden ill-
ness of Mrs. Law Smith, at whose house,
Chocolyn, the tables were prepared, but Mrs.
A. J. Black came to the rescue and lent
her home, Mount Noorat, for the occasion.
Some Western District neighbors, including
Edmund Tliornley’s smart wife, a Staughton
relative, Mrs. Ilenty, and one of the Cum-
mings mingled their farewells with the
chatter.
There was a great gathering of ex-pupils
of Firbank at St. Andrew’s, Middle Brighton,
to see Mary, daughter of the James Bell
Jamiesons, of Brighton, exchange vows with
Marsden Padman, formerly of Adelaide. The
bride, white frilled from neck to heel,
twinkled with rhinestones, and tulle flowed
from each side of a skull-cap finished with
eardrops of stones and blossom. Two apple-
green clad ’maids, Lila Cox and Maisie Mar-
chan, carried diamente-studded bags, the gift
of the bridegroom. No. 9, where the re-
ception was held, was a bower of pink.
It took three clergymen to tie the McLennan-
Langley knot at St. Mary’s, Caulfield, the
other evening. Canon Langley, the bride-
groom’s father, had at his elbow Padre A.
J. Collocott, the bride’s uncle, and Bishop
Langley gave his benediction to his grand-
nephew and the bride. Jean Munro, a
daughter of the D. M. McLennans of Moo-
roopna. The bridal gown was a graceful
cloud of white mousseline witli glimpses of
yellow, and the veil was of tulle. A trio of
’maids carried sheaves of delphiniums and
their frocks were of shaded golden georgette,
topped by blue felt hats.
Betty Brewis, who made many friends
here during Captain Brewis’s term of ser-
vice, has chosen a naval man as her life
partner. He is Cyril Banford, R.N., and his
ship, the Herald, is stationed in Northern
waters. After a Evlropean honeymoon the
pair will set up a home in Hongkong.
Ida Ethel Rees Jones, whose parents were
old residents of Rockhampton (Q.), has re-
ceived an engagement token from George
Romaine, eldest son of the late C. Barbour
and Mrs. Barbour, of Belle Vale, Yass. Miss
Jones is the last unattached member of her
family. One sister is settled in London, and
another, Mrs. Maxwell Carroll, lives in this
city.
The lady pictured here by Lafayette is
well in the running for the presidency of
the Hous o-
wives’ Associa-
tion when the
position next
falls vacant.
She is Mrs.
Percy J. Rus-
sell, of Clive-
den Mansions,
wife of a well-
known legal
light. At a
recent gather-
ing of the
11. A., the re-
tiring presi-
dent, Mrs.
Gleneross, in-
troduced the
lady as “our
greatest house-
wife,” a tri-
bute to the
efficiency with
which Mrs.
Russell ran the Red Gross kitchen during
the war period. On a recent overseas jaunt
she and her husband undertook some private
research regarding sales and advertising of
Australian-made goods, and came back with
some very helpful tips to Australian pro-
ducers and packers. Mrs. Russell reckons
that Australian modistes are quite as clever
as the Parisians, and she is doing her best
to overcome the prejudice against local pro-
ducts in this as in other directions.
The sudden death on Thursday of Arch-
bishop Harrington Lees came as a shock to
the community in general. He was a genial,
likeable man, and his passing is very sin-
cerely regretted. Though his second wife has
had less than a year in which to take up
the numerous duties that attach to her posi-
tion, she has made many friends, and the
nice-looking young widow will find Austra-
lia’s sympathy a v.ery real thing. The
funeral service at St. Paul’s on Saturday
afternoon, prior to cremation at Fawkner
cemetery, was a very impressive ceremony.
The Archbishop’s recently-composed prayer
for those cremated was recited over his
remains.
Just dead liarrington Lees combined the
piety proper to an archbishop with an irre-
sistible love of a joke. At one of the in-
numerable school break-ups he attended just
before his demise a play was performed at
the conclusion of which a peasant was made
to say “I’m sorry I didn’t bring the old
woman with me.” The Archbishop then got
up and by way of introducing his youthful-
looking second matrimonial partner, re-
marked, “Well, I'm glad to say I have
brought the old woman with me!”
The seaside resort of Portsea is paying the
penalty of popularity this season, and is
crowded and noisy. The naice folk who
established holiday homes there in the early
days to dodge the madding crowd are wor-
ried, for motor-cars and ’buses arrive in
hordes at week-ends and on holidays, and
peace and privacy arc gone. The visitors
make merry boisterously all round the clock.
Aquaplaning behind speedy launches is a
popular sea pastime and adds considerably
to the din.
The alert, capable-looking lady pictured
here by Rembrandt is Florrie Green, who
was responsible for the recent Princess of
Music pageant in aid of the permanent
orchestra fund. The graceful and artistically-
dressed dances which formed interludes in
that entertain-
ment paid
their own tes-
timony to her
knowledge and
wide experi-
ence. Miss
Green is the
youngest
daughter o f
the late Mrs.
William
Green, who
for so many
years taught
classic and
ballroom
dances here.
Miss Green
has followed in
her mother’s
footstep s.
Some time ago
she decided to
give up teach-
ing, but requests to take just, a few pupils
have so often been made that she still has
some classes.
At a meeting held at State Government
House the other day a beginning was made
with the formation of a Country Women’s
Association in this State. A committee was
elected, with the Chauvel lady as president,
Mrs. Russell Grimwade and Mrs. E. Rich-
ardson as joint lion, secs., and Colonel E. H.
Davidson’s wife as hon. ticket sec. for a ball
to be held on March 1. Mrs. Harold Clapp
has undertaken to put on a cabaret turn at
the dance, which will be held at the Embassy.
In Bananaland’s capital Mrs. Clapp, then
Yivian Noel, staged many excellent amateur
shows.
Notwithstanding the holiday season the
Little Green Shop of St. Vincent’s Hospital
has been able to command its three daily
shifts of voluntary help. Business has been
brisk, and the salesladies are wondering if
the sign designed by D. H. Souter has
brought luck, though the artist left his cele-
brated black cat out of the picture. A
framed photograph of the shop airing its
new tag was sent to Mr. Souter as a Christ-
mas greeting from the South Yarra Auxiliary.
For six months from April 23 Lord and
Lady Somers will be absent from the State,
private business necessitating a sojourn in
England. Irvine, C.J., and his lady will
officiate till their Exes.’ return.
Mrs. George Armstrong and her small
daughter had a narrow escape from death
the other day. Their car stalled across a
tram-line, and a tram dashed into it. Pamela
received some facial cuts which surgical skill
has repaired, so Melba’s grand-daughter will
bear no permanent marks of the encounter.
The A. E. Whitelaws are turning their
thoughts homeward after revisiting Aus-
tralia for a few months. A short stay in
Sydney will conclude their visit, and the
Mooltan will carry them back next month
to their flat in Mayfair. One of their sons
has gone on the land in Bananaland.
Mrs. Bruche and her daughter Olga, who
are expected back in Melbourne shortly, will
arrive merely to say good-bye. They will
leave almost at once for London, where
Major-General Bruche will be stationed in
future.
Mrs. Norman Menzies and her son Archie,
who have been here a few weeks staying
at Lister House, intend returning to London
about the middle of next month.
Geelong residents rose to the occasion
when word came for E. W. Parsons and his
wife to move to Townsville, where he has
been appointed manager of the _ Common-
wealth Bank. A Masonic festivity was
arranged for the departing brother, and
officers of the bank, Rotarians and the local
Yacht Club gave a farewell party.
Julia Flynn is not yet secure in the job
of chief inspector of Vic. secondary schools.
Her probationary term, fixed first at three
months, has been extended for another three
months. She had to fight hard to get the
nomination, and as she is drawing the pay
attached to the job (£720 a year for a
woman) she is not losing anything.
Mrs. Sep Miller has decided to take her
small son abroad and they sail at the end of
this month for England, where they will be
joined by her sister Madge Henderson, who
has been living there for two years and
knows the run of the ropes. Under Mrs.
Henderson’s guidance the Millers will see
Italy, France and other foreign countries.
With Mrs. Miller goes Eily Madden, whose
sister, Mrs. L. Gavan Duffy, has already left
with a party for an extended tour.
Basil Hall’s wife is an English girl who
came here as a bride just after the Armis-
tice. Now they have decided to spend a
year in her native island and will leave
their Greendale squattage, La Cote, in March.
A little touring in Southern Europe is a
tentative part of the programme.
The Council of Jewish Women has started
the year well by equipping a bed in an
adult ward of the Queen Victoria Hospital
for women. Mrs. Maurice Patkin, presi-
dent of the C.J.W., accompanied by other
members, went to the hospital one day last
week and handed the necessary cheque to
Mrs. Norman Brookes, president of the
hospital.
Elsy Treweek (Mrs. Fred Collier) has
changed her mind about returning to Lon-
don. She has decided, at Fritz Hart’s request,
to take a hand with the training of singers
at the Albert-street Con.
The Athenaeum will be the first theatre
to give Melbourne the boon of the talkies.
E. J. Carroll shrewdly calculates that
whether they prove popular or not, public
curiosity will make the installation well
worth while. Incidentally, press reports of
the enormous cost of these outfits are all
gu ff.
The Oscar Lemprieres and their daughters
Joan and Margot are booked for a voyage to
Europe by way of the East next month.
Frank Clarke and his lady, with Marnie and
Patricia, are likely to set out for London in
the same liner.
Bargains these days are not limited to rag
shops. Four well-known young men of the
social set had a motor-tour during the Christ-
mas-New Year holidays in a Chev. car
picked up for £l7 10s. The ’bus behaved
itself as well as if it had just come out of
the factory.
Nellie Veitch, who has been holidaying in
England for a year, announces her intention
of returning next month. The popular
teacher of verse-speaking, who had a very
successful career in Melbourne, has retired
from teaching, and will reside with her sister
in Sydney.
From “A.G.M.” in London:—
The chance detection of Lady Doria Pelham Clin-
ton Hope serving as a shopgirl in a New York store
has brought that enterprising young lady enough
publicity to establish her as a film star if she has
any leanings towards the movies: Lady Doria, who
is 20 and pretty, went to New York with a school
friend, Leonora Highet, and has been living at Green-
wich Village within her salary of £5 a week.
Although both girls have got a good deal of fun
out of their venture, they may yet turn the experi-
ence to practical account, as before leaving England
they had discussed the probability of opening a shop
in the West End. Lady Doria has several relations
in New York, including handsome Clive O’Hara, often
described as the best-looking man in the theatre-
world of that city. Her mother was the daughter
of Dr. O’Hara’s beautiful sister, Mrs. G. H. Thomp-
son, one of the most noticeable figures ever seen on
the Melbourne Block.
Ernest Hutcheson heralded his return to American
musical activity by a recital at Carnegie Hall, New
York, on November 7. There was a large, but not
overflowing, audience. One of the best things on
a programme noted for classical excellence was his
own Prelude and Caprice. More and more of late
he has given his time to composition, although as
Dean of the Juilliard Graduate School of Music, much
of it is occupied in teaching young America,
Eleanora de Cisneros, whose statuesque figure, Titian
locks and often fine singing—especially as Dalila —
delighted Australia a few years ago, has been break-
ing a lance on behalf of the Australian galleryites
who were harshly criticised the other day by
Governor Graham in a letter to a New York weekly.
“Cis” has so many nice things to say of the Aus-
tralian audiences in general and her memories are
so charged with affection and gratitude that she
makes the daring debractor look like five cents.
Wilma Berkeley, upon whom Melba shed the light
of her patronage when she heard her sing in Mel-
bourne six years ago, is singing Mimi in “La
Bohfeme” and such roles as Maritana, Violetta, Gilda
and the Countess in “The Marriage of Figaro” at
the Old Vic., London, where she has a three months’
engagement; and the London critics have sugared
their notices of her Mimi. The Melburnian has
struck success in other lines. She played in Jose
Collins’s part in “The Greek Slave” on tour of the
English provinces, and she was selected as one of
the soloists at the Schubert Centenary Concert in
London.


FINE
UALITY
J
<Mir
D
m
eja
No. 306—£25
No. 302 —£25
No. 301 —£31/10/-
' No. 308—£55
No. 309—£30
No. 300—£20
No. 307—£65
m
No. 305—£40
No. 304—£25
No. 303—£45
The Diamond Rings illustrated above
represent the finest value offered in
Australia. All the diamonds are set in
pure platinum by Drummond’s ring
experts. Money will be refunded if
not approved of. Illustrated Ring Cata-
logue sent post free to any address.
WM.DRUMMOND 6 CO
DIAMOND AND-PEARL SPECIALISTS-
-344-346 COLLINS STREET
MELBOURNE • ___l
A Good Recovery
READ ARTHUR WRIGHT’S LATEST SPORTING STORY.
One of the Bookstall Series. PRICE, 1/-. POSTED, 1/1J
From All Booksellers.
STEELE RUDD’S STORIES.
BACK AT OUR SELECTION
DAD IN POLITICS
DUNCAN McCLURE
FOR LIFE
FROM SELECTION TO CITY
GRANDPA’S SELECTION
MEMOIRS OF CORPORAL
KEELEY
ON AN AUSTRALIAN FARM
ON EMU CREEK
OUR NEW SELECTION
ON OUR SELECTION
SANDY’S SELECTION
STOCKING OUR SELECTION
THE BOOK OF DAN
THE DASIIWOODS
THE OLD HOMESTEAD
THE POOR PARSON
Ensign Calder J. H. M. Abbott
The Knight of the Motor Launch
Arthur H. Adams
Eros! Eros Wins F. Agar
The Mare with the Silver Hoof .... Hob Allen
Equality Road Vera Baker
Mystery Outlaw Vera Baker
In Racing Silk Gerald R. Baldwin
Lydia’s Lovers Gerald R. Baldwin
Steve Brown’s Bunyip J. A. Barry
Romany Mark C. Bear
Bully Hayes, Buccaneer Louis Becke
Aladdin and the Boss Cockie, Randolph Bedford
Billy Pagan, Mining Engineer, Randolph Bedford
Silver Star Randolph Bedford
The Double Abduction 11. K. Bloxhain
On the Fringe of the Never Never,
H. K. Bloxham
Tom, Pagdin, Pirate E. J. Brady
The Lady of the Cavern Hilda Bridges
By Mountain Tracks H. M. Bridges
The Squatter’s Daughter H. M. Bridges
Cards of Fortune Jtoy Bridges
On His Majesty’s Service Boy Bridges
The Fenceless Ranges Roy Bridges
The “Bulletin” Book of Humorous Verse and
Recitations “Bulletin”
The “Bulletin” Reciter “Bulletin”
The Spell of the Bush John X. Cameron
The Calling Voice E. F. Christie
Stolen or Strayed Dale Collins
South Sea Sinners Arthur Crocker
Great Turon Mystery Arthur Crocker
For Turon Gold Don Delaney
A Rebel of the Bush Don Delaney
Gentleman Jack Don Delaney
The White Champion Don Delaney
The Doings of Dave Con Drew
Rogues and Ruses Con Drew
ARTHUR WRIGHT’S SPORTING NOVELS.
In the Last Stride ....
Over the Odds
Rung In
The Breed Holds Good .
The Outlaw’s Daughter
The Sport from Hollow Log Flat,
Under a Cloud
Arthur Wright
Arthur Wright
Arthur Wright
Arthur Wright
Arthur Wright
Arthur Wright
Arthur Wright
A Colt from the Country Arthur Wright
A Game of Chance Arthur Wright
A Rogue’s Luck Arthur Wright
A Rough Passage Arthur Wright
Boss o’ Yedden Arthur Wright
Fettered by Fate Arthur Wright
Gambler’s Gold Arthur Wright
Red Star A. R. Falk
Children of the Sunlight, John D. Fitzgerald
Queen Vaiti Beatrice Grimshaw
The Coral Queen Beatrice Grimshaw
The Loser Pays Bert James
Double-bed Dialogues .... James Henry James
Dawson’s Uncle George Sumner Locke
Mum Dawson —Boss Sumner Locke
Books and Crooks Harry R. McDuffie
Fagaloa’s Daughter Jack McLaren
Oil Seekers Jack McLaren
Red Mountain Jack McLaren
Savagery of Margaret Nestor . . Jack McLaren
The Skipper of the “Roaring Meg,’’ J. McLaren
Hack’s Brat A. lan McLeod
At Holland’s Tank Edward Meryon
Yellow Silver Edward Meryon
Harry Dale’s Grand National Jack North
Son of the Bush Jack North
Black Opal .... Jack North
Bodger and the Boarders E. O’Ferrall
The Mount Marunga Mystery .. Harrison Owen
The Plantation Manager .... Ernest Osborne
The Copra Trader Ernest Osborne
Shanty Keeper’s Daughter .... Vance Palmer
The Boss of Killara Vance Palmer
Mystery of Wall’s Hill,
Sydney Partrige and Cecil Raworth
A Maker of Pearls S. W. Powell
Great Jade Seal S. W. Powell
Hermit Island S. W. Powell
The Pearls of Cheong Tah .... S. W. Powell
Trader of Kameko S. W. Powell
THOMAS SPENCER’S HUMOROUS BOOKS, VERSES AND SKETCHES.
How McDougall Topped the Score and Other
Verses and Sketches Thomas Spencer
That Droll Lady Thomas Spencer
The Spring Cleaning Thomas Spencer
The Surprising Adventures of Bridget Mc-
Sweeney Thomas Spencer
Why Doherty Died Thomas Spencer
The Recipe for Rubber Ralph Stock
Tap Tap Island J. M. Walsh
CHARLES WHITE’S AUSTRALIAN BUSHRANGING NOVELS.
Ben Hall Charles White
Captain Moonlite . Charles White
Gardiner, “King of the Road,” Charles White
John Vane, Bushranger Charles White
Martin Cash Charles White
The Kelly Gang Charles White
Great Western Road H. F. Wickham
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
BOOKSTALL CORNER,
Corner CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
xi
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Oua
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office?: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
South Australia’s Brightest Daily.
%
ďf
Register
Since 1836
Young in Thought.
Ouick in Action.
Delivered by Aeroplane to Various
Country Centres.
Broadcast Your Advertising
Message throughout the
Great Central State
THE REGISTER,
which is read by all classes,
Proprietors:
W. K. THOMAS & C 0. f Adelaide.
EBIC N. BIRKS, N.S. W. Representative.
Telephone X.0'187.
G. N. BEDNALL, Argus Building, Melbourne.
TWO DAYS SHORTER
THE NEW
FAST SERVICE TO
AMERICA
I7i DAYS
Via Fiji, Samoa, Hawaii
The fastest service between Australia and America is now
established—a record-breaking achievement.
With the addition of the swift express liner "Malolo” in
the Matson Honolulu-San Francisco Service, this through
voyage is now TWO ENTIRE DAYS SHORTER.
To take advantage of this arrangement, passengers for America
may transfer from the "Sierra,” "Sonoma” or "Ventura” to
the "Malolo” at Honolulu. It assures a great saving in time.
It costs no more to take advantage of this service.
The following sailings from Sydney connect with this express
service:
"Ventura” - January 19th
"Sonoma” - March 2nd
"Sierra” - - April 13 th
"Sierra” - - June 15 th
"Sonoma” - - July 6th
"Sierra” - August 17th
"Ventura” - Sept. 28th
"Sonoma” - - Nov. 9th
"Sierra” - - Dec. 21st
REGULAR SAILINGS EVERY THIRD SATURDAY.
Call or write for descriptive booklets.
Cheap excursion tickets to Honolulu issued all the year round.
lie STEAMSHIP ©Q
MMMU Lin
12 Bridge Street, Sydney B 29
Local Agents: Mcllwraith McEacharn Ltd., 94-96 William St., Melbourne; 117-119 King
William St., Adelaide ; Fremantle, Perth, Albany; Howard Smith Ltd., Brisbane, Townsville
u U J
A high-grade pencil which
never needs sharpening.
Prices, 7/6 upwards.
SOLD BY , STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
PITS IS RUBBER
“THE AGE”
Established 185Jf.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“THE AGE” is a publication of quality and
character, and has earned an enviable reputa-
tion by seventy-four years of steadfast labor
in the production of a clean family newspaper.
A Victorian production of National import-
ance, “THE AGE” occupies a place in journal-
ism unsurpassed anywhere. Original, of un-
doubted prestige, a leader in everything and
a political force recognised by all.
If you desire to keep fully informed of the
news of the day read
“THE AGE.”
It provides a daily interpretation of current
topics and enables its subscribers to keep in
touch with the world’s progress.
“THE AGE” publisher over
1,000,000 advertisements
annually.
Price ljd. per copy at all Newsagents and
Bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter, post free
within the Commonwealth.
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.


Under
Royal
Warrant'
Vintage 1920
ToH.NL
George V
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
.CHAMPAGNE
M»arlesllcidsie<>
Heims
'*’*♦«, ET J "***
WasS2S
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrerits—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
d
'THE exotic decora-
tions make the Ball-
room and Palm Court
ideal for the formal or
the intimately informal
gathering.
Luncheon a la carte
daily.
Afternoon Tea .. 3/6
Saturday 4/-
Monday Afternoon
reserved for Bridge.
if
'pilE Egyptian Ballet
showing every
afternoon and evening.
Come and hear Tutank-
hamen’s favorite hand.
Sat u r day Evenings:
Dinner 15/-
Supper 10/6
Other Evenings the
Ballroom may be
privately engaged.
RING
BW 13 6 1.
FOR RESERVATIONS
7hp cen/ne of Queen s /onc/s
Soc/o/ Ljfe.
I temorn
l?ofel
BRISBANE
fd
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Cou’-t
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, wiib
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
kayscr
SILK
CLOVES
On the very hottest day of last week,
when the streets were a blinding glare, when
every rag you had on was oozing and a
glove was an agony, this Letter turned into
its favorite hat shop—a crystal and gold and
onyx hole in the wall in the heart of the
city. Within its discreet doors four ladies
were being fitted with hats, while two elegant
mannequins, one a blonde and the other a
gypsyisli beauty, posed. And what do you
think they were wearing? Wide-brimmed
hats, suggesting cooltli and shade? Not at
all! They were cooing and chiming over the
new winter models! Felt, camel’s hair and
satin-smooth velour. These hats are all skull
as to crown, and most of them are embellished
with designs in darning. For instance, a
daffodil yellow that this Letter earmarked
had white poppies all over its crown and
tiny brim. The flowers were formed of the
finest darning stitch, and when you thought
of the hours of patient work that had gone
to this design, the price seemed not so stag-
gering. Our winter hats will wear kid
linings to the brim, inlets of kid and kid
swathes, but never a ribbon; brims will be
upturned, with a downward sweep to one
side; and the smartest of them are once
again small.
In spite of tropic sun and raging wind
the opening day of the Tirranna festivities
was not quite as trying as it was last year.
The sun, striking through a smoky haze from
the bush-fires in the Braidwood district, was
tempered by a cool breeze; still it was quite
warm enough to put some of the menfolk
into rational dress. Jock Dalgleish, owner of
First Note, defied convention by discarding
coat and vest, and the blatant coolness of
his white silk shirt, crowned with a solar
topee, aroused the envy of many of his tweed-
suited friends. Bush-fires were largely re-
sponsible for the smaller attendance at this
74th birthday of the ancient club, for many
of the usual visitors sent SOS (Saving Our
Sheep) signals, among them the Jim Gordons
of Werriwa. But the popular president,
Mr. Lucian Faithful, who was born in the
same year as his beloved club, was at his old
job of saying a few pleasant words to the
winners.
Mrs. Lucian Faithful handed out the
prizes and smiled sweetly in black cashmere
de soie with appliqued black velour trim-
ming. Mrs. Elwyn Blomfield, wife of Tir-
ranna’s new and Bong Bong’s long-popular
secretary, wore her favorite beige brightened
by a striking scarf of emerald green. Mrs.
A. P. F. Chapman, wife of the gentleman
who renewed his lease of the “ashes” re-
cently, draped her leopardy frock with a
scarf of patriotic hue. Her Maoriland
sister bore her company. The ever-smiling
Mrs. Max Chisholm gladdened the proceed-
ings in a cream silk frock with lettuce-green
trimmings, protected by a green sunshade of
generous proportions. Pretty Mary Doberer,
protected by the C. E. Prells, paced the
drought-stricken lawn without the long
auburn plaits that figured in her portrait
exhibited at the Royal Art Society’s Show.
Mrs. Leo Watson was accompanied by two
of her tall sisters, Mrs. Lightfoot and Daphne
Armstrong; sister Mildred is still abroad.
Mrs. C. E. Prell, the president of the Goul-
burn C.W.A., wore a beige gown covered
by a beautiful lace coat. Dr. and Mrs.
Roger Cope were present with their niece,
Mrs. Jack Coleman, a recent bride. Mrs.
H. H. Budden entertained a large party of
her friends, among whom the pretty trio of
Baird girls from Gunning and Moss Vale
and a tall juvenile of the Kelso clan with
long plaits of golden hair were conspicuous.
The ladies were fairly successful with
their nominations. Mrs. Allan Binnie and
Enid Falkiner carried off eight prizes be-
tween them. Miss Rosemary Osborne had a
streak of ill-luck; her horse Two Diamonds,
that last year won the Bachelors’ Bag and
ran third in the Cup, fell in the first race
on the second day, and broke a fetlock. At
the prize-giving the usual entreaties for “just
a few words” were disregarded by blushing
owners. But when Harry Osborne, the
owner of the Cup winner, sought 'to escape,
he was tackled by Colonel Rutledge and
brought back to make the speech of his life.
Then a fleet of cars fled through the dust
for home, recalling the fact that 20-odd years
ago a venturesome pastoralist navigated a
fearsome-looking car to Tirranna and was re-
quested to remove the contraption from the
paddock for fear it might stampede every
moke on the course!
The Picnic Race Ball was held in the old
Arcadia Skating Rink, one of the largest and
most barn-like halls in this State, 240 feet
long, 60 feet wide, 50 feet high. The whole
of' the interior of this great cavern was
lined with a canvas-like material that passed
for a soft grey wash. From this background
the decorations were brilliant and bizarre.
They were in chrome yellow, vivid orange,
scarlet and emerald-green and gold. The
side walls were hung with long panels of
russet-brown crepe on which were gold bars
massed with gladioli, tied with bows of
emerald green. Golden garlands falling in
loops connected these bars around the whole
room. In case some Samson might drop
in and lean against a pillar, the hall has been
provided with 13 others. All were draped
with reseda-green. Clumps of hydrangea
appeared to be growing at the base of each,
and overhead hung garlands in a bright shade
of apple-green. The lights were enclosed in
huge shades of gold silk and were hung and
draped with garlands of pure white. “TIR-
RANNA 1929’? was blazoned across one end
of the hall in gold leters. and in front of this
legend a sitting-out lounge was arranged;
but as sitting-out is translated literally by
moderns who have cars parked within coo-ee,
the carpet had scarcely a foot-print on its
ruby breast. The cool refreshment annex
was decked out as 1 a Chinese pagoda, with
banners set about on which Chinese charac-
ters sprawled. One hung at the entrance; you
read from the bottom up—RAB.
Carnations and gladioli were used on the
supper table for the first night’s dance, and
roses on the second night, when the Tirranna
Ball was held. On the second night,
from a monster golden horseshoe nailed to
one of the pillars flowed the green, brown
and red which H. C. Osborne’s Bronze
Furze carried to victory in the Tirranna Cup.
The frocking at the two balls was expen-
sive and attractive. Georgettes and chiffons,
spreading and draped as to skirt, seemed
first favorites. Shoes were gay in color, be-
ribboned, jewelled and generally frivolous.
Everybody who had been at the races by day
turned up at night. Pauline Dangar, in
thistledown laces, and Hope Ryrie, in rose-
leaf chiffons, bloomed into grown-ups at the
dance on Thursday. Slim Ann Jamieson, in
bunchy tulles of chrysanthemum browns,
caught the imagination; so did Mrs. Pat
Levy, whose Venetian-glass type was suited
to perfection by her first night’s wear of
amethystine georgettes and her Friday night’s
raiment of water-green. Helen Blomfield
was pictorial in rose and silver. Marion
Lowry took the floor with betrothed Dr.
R. H. Bettington. Mrs. J. C. Dalgleish
alternated in rose and black satin. Other
belles were Ena Edwards, Shirley Dent and
sleek-headed Audrey Maple Broun.
Wagga people need no introduction to
Mrs. I. Rudd, one of the best workers
of the Country Women’s Association and
this year’s president of the Wagga branch.
Her great
achieve m e n t
is the tea-
room run in
connect ion
with the
C.W.A. rest-
house. At first
she had charge
of it in con-
junction with
Mrs. J. F.
Byrne; now,
since Mrs.
By r n e’s de-
parture from
the district,
she carries it
on alone. It
is a very good
business pro-
position, and
p r o> V, e s a
steady source
of revenue to
the association. The proceeds are paid into
the ’fund for the proposed maternity hospital,
which has been the objective of the branch
for some time, and for which it already has
£1172 in hand.
It was bad luck that after being padlocked
to the Quay for so long the Juan Sebastian
de Elcano should make her first big gesture
of hospitality on a day when the very figure-
head seemed to perspire. Even the colors of
his Most Holy Majesty of Spain seemed
too hot to flaunt his glory to the southern
land that might so easily have been a jewel
in his crown. However, Consul for Spain
Campbell Macfie refused, like the Spanish
grandee of old, to bow his crested head, and
instead wore it very erect in a top hat.
Captain Manuel de Mendivil Y Elio, in
white ducks as impeccable as his manners,
stood beside him and smiled the guests to
the freedom of the boat.
Everybody had heard of the captain’s
suite, papered where it isn’t walnut-panelled
with photographs of Spanish Royalties (the
Girl in the Flat opposite calls them Spanish
Influentials). and all the afternoon a
stream of visitors gazed at the royal blue
upholsteries, across which gold birds and
dragonflies wing their way. One of the new
liqueur cabinets which look like a set of
leather-bound books was a toy in the com-
mander’s stateroom that attracted attention.
Dancing and cool drinks were the main
attractions, and really the merry-eyed
sailors juggling with the glasses proved as
great a magnet as the smooth-stepping gran-
dees of the quarter-deck.
While your New Year resolutions are still
springing green within you, this Better
wants you to
greet Janet
Mitchell, the
lady in charge
of the Thrift
Department of
the N. S. W.
Gove r nment
Savings Bank.
Her long suit
is expounding
to women the
doctrine of how
to get the most
value for their
money. Flap-
per, housewife,
spinster,
mother all
lean consult
the oracle free
of charge. If
you are tangled
in debts, then
Miss Mitchell
will show you how to gradually untie the
knots. This artist in the spending of money
sat to May Moore for the photograph.
The school teachers gathered together from
all the States, except apparently Westralia,
know now how it feels to be talked at for
hours and hours on a hot day when you
have much more important things to do down
at the bogey-liole. N.S.W. Minister for Edu-
cation Drummond and Director of Education
H. S. Smith unloosed their flights and theories
on such subjects as “The School as a Mem-
ber of the Social Order,” while Brunsdon
Fletcher complained at great length that the
Norwegians are stealing our whales—though
what the teachers are to do about it this
Letter doesn’t know, unless it is to train
whale-dogs. After which the teachers settled
down to discuss their own job. And warmer
even than the atmosphere the conference got
at times. On the subject of external examina-
tions, for instance —a system which one
Victorian delegate declared has “no more
friends than a tiger.” Dinner and theatre
parties and harbor trips provided social in-
terludes. L. T. Latter was president, and
Miss Flynn and Miss Thomas, from Victoria,
and Miss Swann and Miss Symons, of
N.S.W., were the only women delegates.
Some mild parties have been the entertain-
ment so far offered to swimmer Arne Borg
and liis pretty wife, who arrived by the
Nieuw Zeeland. She is a Stockholm girl
and is of the small and dark variety. She
made her first public appearance in Sydney
without stockings, but she isn’t the only
girl to appear bare-legged in Sydney; one
minor actress startled a society tennis club
last year by airing her brown legs before a
mixed company. After the dailies had given
Mrs. Borg’s stockingless condition almost
cable prominence, the wife of the swimmer
either rushed out and bought a pair or
unearthed some from her boxes, for on her
second appearance her legs were meshed
in the glossy silk of the moment. She
wasn’t going to let Sydney think her Arne
couldn’t buy her just as many as she wanted.
The discussion of bare legs versus stockings
was still under debate when a temperature
that carolled gaily up to 106 and the second
day of the Country Tennis coincided. Then
half a dozen or so of the girl-players decided
to do it bare-legged, thus emulating Mrs. Boyd
of Newcastle, who had pioneered the fashion
on the Rushcutter’s Bay courts. Half a
dozen girls from one of the city theatres, too,
walked the city streets for half an hour with-
out a stocking among them. But there’s not
a leg in the world that is not improved by a
stocking. Most women’s knees are knobbly
affairs; for one dimpled pair you find
thousands that look like hat racks. They
weren’t long in finding this out in Europe.
Three seasons ago in Nice bare legs were
as frequent as quarrelling gulls along the
water-front; this season an early visitor
tells this Letter they were as hard to find
as whales.
If you have only three weeks’ vacation,
don’t go to Noumea. Two Sydney girls who
left gaily by the Laperouse on Nov. 23, ex-
pecting to be back in Sydney on Dec. 21,
had not been returned by January 11. This
to two girls who have a limited holiday as
well as purse is a serious matter. The
scheduled three days’ stop in Noumea
stretched into a week; and although passen-
gers were supposed to live in the boat during
its stay, the Laperouse was berthed up so
close to the Ville de Verdun that a band
stretched from a porthole could reach it.
Added to this hindrance to fresh air in that
tropic atmosphere were other horrors such
as no fans, the cutting off of the ship’s
sanitation and a strong list to the Verdun.
One day and night of this sent the two girls
looking for hotel accommodation, which they
found and had to keep at their own expense
—an outlay neither had expected and only
one was financial enough to face without
tears.
Norma Drew came from Manly to St.
Mark’s, at Darling Point, for her marriage
with Philip Andreas, of Kirribilli. Up an
avenue of pews flowering with gladioli and
hydrangea N. M. Drew handed his slim, dark
daughter, who wore a Carmen-like head-
dress of Spanish lace which flowed into the
snowy ripples of a tulle train. Chantilly and
white satin were allied in the bride’s frock,
and frangipanni spilled in sweetness from
the sheaf on her arm. Sister .Toan, in pink
taffetas, was attendant ’maid. Canon Howard
Lea having closed the book, the Australia
became the port of call. Here, amid pink
tiger-lilies, roses and silver wedding-bells,
congratulations tinkled.
St. Philip’s became a grove of palms for
the marriage of Phyllis Abel, of Ilaberfield,
and John Ilenery, of Kirribilli. Trails of
smilax and white roses were other horti-
culture creating the proper atmosphere for
the frock of white Chantilly lace and froth-
ing tulle veil and train. Two matrons of
honor, Mrs. T. K. Wilson and Mrs. T. T.
Ilenery, gave the bride the benefit of their
experience, wafted along on rosy clouds of
spotted net, the two-tiered scalloped skirts
being several inches longer at the back.
Bride’s mother hostessed the reception at the
Ambassadors in black laces topped by a soft
black hat.
A new bride for the Solomon Islands is
Mrs. B. A. Timms. Before her wedding she
was Marjorie Hudson, and the bridegroom’s
address before he made Makambo his bead-
quarters was Casino (N.S-W.). Padre
.1. P. S. Russell blessed the vows, and tin-
bride’s wedding raiment, although she had
only three days to acquire it, was complete
to the last orange bud, the frock being
an impressive affair of ivory satin and Brus-
sels lace. Sister Joyce ’maided in palest
pink. Toasts at the Wentworth under the
direction of Mr. and Mrs. E. T. Hudson.
Jolmny Wallace, the redoubtable captain of
the Waratalis, is among the newly wed. He
was married last week to Betty Simpson, a
daughter of the W. D. Simpsons, of Wando-
bah, near Curlewis (N.S.W.). Following the
fashion set by Adam and Eve the two were
married in the garden, and the voice that
breathed was Padre McDonald’s, of Gunne-
dah. The bride was veiled and frocked in
lace, and her two ’maids wore georgettes as
blue as the sky. The bridegroom, who comes
from the North Coast, was best-manned by
I). Mclntyre, and Venn Wesche was another
support.
The name being a well-known one in the
district, nearly all Bowral turned into the
Church of St. Simon and St. Jude for the
wedding of Mary Cordeaux. R. T. (Top) Has-
sall, son and heir of the R. T. Hassalls, of
Braidwood, was the young man waiting for
Archdeacon Davies to slip on the gyves. Up
the church decked in blue and gold, and on
a full burst of choral triumph, the bride
drew her white satins and tulle. Father
guided her, while a great complement of
’maids, trainbearer and page brought up the
rear. These two last wore pale blue satin
and lace of the Gainsborough style. Norah
Cordeaux and Isabelle Campbell ’maided in
pale gold frocks, bright gold hats and gold
shoes. Cecil Macdonald, of Walcha, best-
manned ; and R. Osborne, of Bungendore,
was groomsman. A large marquee pitched
in the grounds of the Bowral Golf Club
housed the subsequent reception, Mrs. Cor-
deaux doing the honors in smart black and
white.
Mylie Bayes-Davy, a pretty Shanghai girl
who, with her sister Gwyneth, spent two
recent holidays in Sydney, has just sent
news of her marriage in New York. Her
husband is John L. Robinson, of Surrey and
Rangoon.
Gwen Nelson has written home announc-
ing her .engagement to William Loftus, of
the San Francisco law firm of Townsend
and Loftus. Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Nelson
are off to Honolulu, partly for his health
and partly for a chance to say “Bless you,
my daughter,” to Gwen, who will meet them
there.
Things are on the up-grade with tenor
Alfred O’Shea. When he travels to America
by the Tahiti on the 24th he takes with him
a personal manager. T. B. McManus. There
will be concerts in Wellington, Auckland and
■Honolulu on the way; and before he leaves
Sydney he will be farewelled at the Aus-
tralia with food and song. The committee
has Henry Braddon as chairman.
The Premier’s wife in her spare moments
is addicted to writing verse for children.
Her “Baby Ballads,” a pleasant collection of
songs for children, have been published by
Nicholson’s. Set to music by Mrs. Cyril
Monk, they should be a welcome addition tc
the Kindergarten.


CAIRO
Passengers by Orient Line
steamers are afforded an
opportunity of visiting
Cairo and the Pyramids
during the passage
through the Suez Canal.
s
jMpij
(Nv
_l
5^
■as?
=JS3
j£- <* * tfa
JV
ft?’la
K 93
<KW*****«
- •"
weih
m
Nh
v\
F=t
its*
Ml o*l
$.yJ
CAIRO The Mosque of kaif Bey
ORIENT LINE
f
FOLLOW THIS SIGN FOR PROFITS
TO THE
LEIPZIG SPRING FAIR (GERMANY),
With GREAT ENGINEERING AND BUILDING FAIRS, Commencing March 3, 1929
Profitable to the Business Man on account of £he payable agencies offering.
Profitable to the Pleasure Seeker, as the beauty of Springtime in Germany, and
the wonderment of the Fair is a sight worth seeing. Advice and Letters of Intro-
duction courteously given entirely free.
Authorised Representative: LARS G. BRUNDAHL, 6 Dailey Street, Sydney. ’Phones: 84006, M.W2201.
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE VAGABOND KING.
ROYAL: THE GIRL FRIEND.
CRITERION: THE PATSY.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli .Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
TH EATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
SHOWING NIGHTLY.
A NEW SHOW’ EVERY WEEK.
NELLIE BRAMLEY
COMPANY present
The highest class of play obtainable, at popular
prices.
The Royale Syncopators Chase Gloom
from Dull Intervals.
J # C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT SONG.
ROYAL:
MARGARET BANNERMAN in
OTHER MEN’S WIVES.
ATHENAEUM theatre,
MELBOURNE.
Proprietor, Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee, E. J. Carroll.
EVENINGS, 8.15.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, 2.30.
E. J. CARROLL’S NEW ENGLISH DRAMATIC CO.
in
THE WRECKER.
A Thrilling Railway Mystery Play
By ARNOLD RIDLEY, author of
THE GHOST TRAIN.
Sole Direction E. J. Carroll.
KIN G ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
LEON GORDON in
WHITE CARGO.
Amusements.
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
THE CROWD.
With ELEANOR BOARDiIAN.
ALSO
A WOMAN REDEEMED.
With BRIAN AHERNE and JOAN LOCKTON.
Position Wanted.
TO STATION OWNERS.
ITNERGETIC married man, 42, with wife
and two children (9 and 11), wants
position to take charge or management of
up-to-date sheep property in N.S.W. or
Queensland ; used to all kinds of machinery
and windmills. Lifelong experience in Vic-
toria and Riverina—services guaranteed.
Good character, genuine references. In-
quiries to this office.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 George Street, Sydney.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISDANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Sociel Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Sir John I-lewett, of the Red Cross dele-
gation, went to see how the Ambulance Bri-
gade does, things at headquarters. Mrs. St.
John Atkinson, D.G. President Grimes, Miss
Grimes and Captain and Mrs. E. R. B. Pike
travelled as far as Toowoomba to meet the
party, and Colonel Campbell, representing
Sir John Goodwin, met them at Central
Station on their arrival in Brisbane. Sir
John Hewett and Mrs. Atkinson are staying
at Government House. The combined ambu-
lances took them to Mount Cootha for after-
noon tea with the Governor and Lady Good-
win. Despite the blue mist of bush-fire
smoke, the view was admired, and then the
company watched an exhibition of bush-
ambulance work by a team of men and
women. There was a conference on ambu-
lance matters at Government House in the
afternoon, and next day a trip to Palinwoods
and Nambour. On the following day Sir
John Hewett left for Sydney and Maoriland.
During the visit of the delegation the Good-
wins gave a dinner party at Government
House. Medical-knight David Hardie and
his lady, W. D. Grimes and Miss Grimes,
the Peter Macgregors, P. A. Blundells and
E-spie Dods were among the guests.
The Administrator of the Mandated Ter-
ritory, Brigadier-General E. A. Wisdom, and
Mrs. Wisdom were guests of honor at dinner
at Lennon’s, the table being decked with
bowls of pink roses. Amongst the throng
were. Colonel and Mrs. D. E. Evans, the
Austin Lennons, Mr. and Mrs. Keith Willis,
the C. Byrnes and Miss Elwyn Morgan. Mrs.
Wisdom was born in Scotland, but has taken
very kindly to life in Rabaul.
Maurice Baldwin’s collection of birds is to
be installed as a memorial to him in the
Botanic Gardens Zoo. The Gardens have
now a wading pool for kiddies, which is
much enjoyed during the hot weather.
Southport and Toowoomba are the live-
liest places just now, as so many Brisban-
ltes go to these spots for the summer. Joan
Taylor gave a dance at Labrador, gum
boughs and gay streamers decorating the
verandahs. Amongst the guests were Leila
Langberg, Jill Ryan, Joan Perry and Peggy
Menzies.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Our summer slumber continues and has
deepened to a stupor from which there is
little to rouse us. The weather, in a timely
mood of repentance, arranged a perfect day
of mild sun and cool breezes for the
S.A.J.C.’s racing at Morphettville, but the
attendance was small and the lawns were
empty, of many feminine racegoers. Beige
and biscuit held their own in dress hues,
with Mrs. Lloyd Tolley in beige and blue
and a hint of primrose, her sister-in-law
in biscuit crgpe de Chine, and Mrs. Lance
Lewis in flowered biscuit marocain, to prove
it. For contrast there was Mrs. Andrew
Tennant’s black georgette with its scattering
of red and blue flowers, topped by a wide-
brimmed black hat.
Dancers are bewailing the closing of the
North-terrace rendezvous and the Floating
Palais. The former added a cabaret show
to its attractions in the holidays, but the
business and social slump has been too much
for both resorts, and they shut their doors
at only an hour or two’s notice. Hence a
hastily-convened meeting, in which the
Moulden lady, Mrs. Napier. Birks and Mrs.
Angas Johnson were prime movers, to
arrange a benefit concert.
This is Mrs. Carlile McDonnell, who
acquitted her-
self admirably
as Australia’s
feminine re-
p r e sentative
at Geneva and
has had little
respite from
explaining it
all since she
came back.
She is an ex-
cellent ,speak-
er, clear and
definite, and
she unites
c o mmonsense
with idealism
in a measure
that gives
special value
to her opin-
ion s. Ham-
mer made the
portrait.
There is a fine flutter over the City Coun-
cil’s determination to get rid of the North-
terrace elms. Their intention was first
announced over a year ago and raised a
storm of protest that temporarily saved the
trees. Now the Council is brandishing the
municipal axe again. Result, a Town Hall
meeting, well attended and unmistakably de-
finite in disapproval, at the end of which
Mayor Bonython blandly announced that
he didn’t think the views of the meeting
would make much difference to the Council’s
decision. The fact that the municipal elec-
tions are just over may or may not have
something to do with so fine a gesture of
independence.
If enthusiasm and example go for any-
thing, Captain Grosvenor should make aero-
planing as popular here as it is in Sydney.
He slips to Goolwa for the day, dines at
Victor Harbor, comes home by moonlight
and has his machine stabled before ten
o’clock. He goes to the Allan MacFarlanes,
at the Murray mouth, in less time than it
takes train-travellers to get to Mount Lofty,
and a Wednesday-to-Saturday trip showed
him something of Test cricket in Melbourne
and gave him a day in Sydney.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
A gentle sea breeze tempered the hot sun-
shine of Cup Day, and French-embroidered
voiles and dainty smocked and hemstitched
Manila-made frocks were among the coolest
raiment. His Ex. watched most of the races
from the judge’s lookout. Mrs. Kerr-Pearse’s
flowered design of silk and coral-pink bands
looked cool among the pot-plants of the v.-r.
cubbyhole. Mrs. Marillier wore a gown of
black lace and a floppy hat to match. A
spotty design was favored by Mrs. Robin
McMillan to tone with navy millinery; Mrs.
Webster wore rose-dust pink and a Baku
straw; Mrs. Fothergill was in lilac; Mrs.
Bird in black, and Nell Stewart in ivory
pin-tucked crSpe de Chine and a mastic hat.
Grace Grant wore pink, Mrs. Bob Dickson
blue and Mrs. Harper a white Manila
frock embroidered in pastel tints. Mrs. Guy
McLeod carried an unusual sunshade of
chenille georgette with her bcigy-pink turn-
out. One of the most exciting gowns was
Mrs. Doy Forrest’s mesh of steel-grey and
platinum beads, worn with a hat of the same
shade.
/The Imperial Handicap finished up our
big racing carnival. The grass under the
shady plane-tree looked worse for wear, but
flower-beds bloomed as joyously as ever. Mrs.
Hocking, who seldom misses a meeting, wore
black lace over shell-pink; Guida Weir was
in almond georgette, Mrs. Ron Oldam in
embroidered lemon-tinted voile and black
millinery, and Doris Good in lobelia-blue.
Russet-toned poppies basked among the em-
broideries on Mavis Holmes’s white French
crepe, and her sister’s gown was fashioned
in fawn georgette. Mildred Gwynne chose
mist-grey over palest pink, and Maud Mitchell
another soft grey and a hat of moorlands
blue. Turquoise and milk-white beads
elaborated Mrs. Monteath’s French crfipe,
and penny spots of red and white enlivened
Mrs. Jock Morrison's navy crepe de Chine.
A Bardwcll Clarke camera recently regis-
tered this forceful impression of the feature*
of Charles
Nathan, who
lias taken a
leading part
in Australian
d e velopment.
He has served
as vice-chair-
man of the
M i g r a tion
Com mission
and as one of
the Commis-
sioners of the
Empire Exhi-
bition at
Wembley, and
was • the first
chairman o f
the W. A,
Council of In-
dustrial De-
velopment. He
is also active-
ly associated
with the Council of Scientific and Industrial
Research. Victorian-born, he spent most of
his boyhood in Maoriland, and is a West-
ralian by adoption. A knighthood came his
way last year. With his lady he recently
toured Europe and Egypt.
Dr. and Mrs. Theo Ambrose engaged the
whole of Temple Court cabaret on a recent
evening. Guests were of two generations
and ran well into the hundreds. Supper
was served on small tables in the restaurant
and a buffet catered for thirsty dancers. The
hostess wore a black satin model with widen-
ing bands of bead embroidery on the skirt;
daughter Helen was a swirl of crimson
chiffon, and second daughter Gwen a vision
in blush-pink, whose skirt boasted tiny frills
edged with rhinesljonefe. Mrs. iLanglois
Lefroy wore a marvellous gown of gold mesh
over a froth of sea-green, and Topsy Ilyem
white satin and silver bead fringes. Motor-
cyclist Fay Taylor danced in a medley of
Oriental chiffon and beige lace.
Sir William Campion has boarded the
Comorin for England and four months’ leave,
and her Ex. will spend the rest of the
summer at the v.-r. cottage at Albany.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Brown’s River fancied itself the hub of
the universe during the golf tournament
recently held on the links. Hotels and
boarding-houses were full, and every week-
end cottage had its tenants. The links were
in perfect order, and when the president,
Dr. Scott, presented the trophies at the finish,
he was complimented by several mainland
players on the condition of the course and
the arrangements generally. The little sea-
side village takes some beating for a holiday
resort now that there’s golf as well as
bathing, boating and fishing.
The Tas. Lawn Tennis Association sped
its parting guests at a very smart little
dance, held at the Continental, and engi-
neered chiefly by Eric Johnston. Members of
the Muriel Starr company were among the
dancers, and during the evening Seeley Sam-
son and Charity Wynne performed several
new dances.
For the Urquhart-Murphy wedding only
relatives and a few intimate friends were
invited. The bride was Marjorie, daughter
or Mrs. and the late Rev. G. B. Murphy; the
groom, Donald McDonald, eldest son of the
Murdo Urquharts. The wedding frock was
of peach-pink satin, with flared skirt droop-
ing at each side, and large hat with wreath
of small pink flowers. The bride wore a
crystal necklace, and her bouquet was of blue
delphiniums.. Her sister Jean, the one ’maid,
was arrayed in blue crepe de Chine and large
cream straw hat.
Among mainland folk who are revelling in
the tresh air and cool breezes of the SDeck
are ! B* W. Bean, seeking rest from Se
ardors of his historical literary labors, and
Tom Dunbabm, from Sydney Sun, who with
his wife and family has 'gone into camp
ar , Du nally. He was one of our earliest
Rhodes Scholars.


The Equitable Life Assurance
Company of Australasia, Ltd.
Authorised Capital, £200,000.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
BRANCHES:
N.S.W.: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victoria: 360 Collins St., Melbourne.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
1
' I :
—'v.
A--.
5s
; ...S
(\ 1 !: a^*
r,a |i; |
\£v /ia#**'* Moui+u-i} '\aai«irtfa : MW.J :•■ i,-, : , : ,
: m i
5& is,-,.
“Its Quality Never Changes.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
ďf
® he “Stanley
Unbreakable
Vacuum Flask
Made entirely of steel
and lined with blue
amalite. Guaranteed to
keep liquids boiling Kot
for ]8 hours, and icy
cold for 36 hours. Ab-
solutely unbreakable.
Ideal for travelling.
Q siz? T
57/6
2 Quart S'Ze - 75/-
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen S tTeet > ‘Brisbane;
BRACKEN
By BERNARD CRONIN
Illustrations Jry ly S<2.SOli
Synopsis : Orphaned on the day of
his hirth, and taken by his mother's
sister, Ann Martin, to Music Ridge, a
Qippsland selection owned by Aim’s
husband, Hector, Jasper Leith slaves
through boyhood among the cows. His
uncle, a heavy drinker, dies suddenly
when Jasper is 16, and Jasper, taking
charge, makes the place comparatively
prosperous. Jasper’s neighbor, Lois
Bcaument, for whom he has a deep
liking and who has gone to Melbourne
for schooling, has hinted that she
thinks he is risking better things
through his growing obsession to make
money. However, he stays on the hold-
ing, continuing to make it pay, until he
is past 20, though his eyes have been
turned cityward through a friendship
with Ronald Braid, a boy ivho is try-
ing to become an artist, and whom he
met at Lois’s home. He has £3OO in
the bank when he at last determines
to go to the city and begin in busi-
ness. About this time he takes morje
than a share of drink at the Harrises,
another neighboring family, and to get
out of a compromising situation tells
Tod Harris that he and Cora (Tod's
sister) are to be married, though
hitherto he had been disgusted at
Cora’s blousy ways. Jasper, though
he suspects he has been trapped into
the marriage, goes through with it.
CHAPTER XVII.
City Days.
RONALD BRAID was moving restlessly
about the sitting-room of Lois Beau-
ment’s East Melbourne flat. At in-
tervals he made little nervous gestures with
his smooth, white, long-fingered hands, paus-
ing to discover what effect his words brought
to her expression, or turning aside to make
impatient examination of the vista of public
garden seen beyond the open window. At
close on thirty Ronald retained the delicate
featuring and fresh-complexioned charm of
his adolescence. His face was clean-shaven,
and his fair hair was carefully disposed in
a series of shining ripples. His mouth was
kindly, if a thought discontented. He spoke
in precise, well-modulated tones, that now
and then had a timbre almost womanish.
“Every time I think of it I get more
exasperated. You don’t seem to realise that
you’ve deliberately defrauded yourself. I
think precious little of Albert and his wife
for allowing you to make such a sacrifice.”
“My dear Ron, don’t you think I’m the
best judge of all that? If you’d seen the
utter dismay—you could almost call it
panic—on Albert’s face when they read
out daddy’s will, you’d have understood how
terribly hurt he was. I don’t know how my
father brought himself to such injustice.
I think that perhaps he was much more ill
than any of us suspected. Sick men ought
not to be judged hardly. Everything’s all
right now, so it doesn’t matter.”
“All right? With Grasslands in Albert’s
hands and you getting a miserly three
pounds a week?”
“Ron, please! I couldn’t possibly want
more than that. Besides, I prefer to earn
my own living, as far as possible.”
“But why have you signed away every-
thing like that? If you’d only have come
to me for advice!”
Lois reiterated with a touch of asperity:
“Ron, if you please!” Then, seeing his
swift dejection, she added, smiling: “Can’t
you see that there was nothing else to be
done? Albert deserves to have every inch
of Grasslands. Think of all those years
of his toiling, without any reward at all
except the belief that eventually the' place
*1 just had to come to him and
me. And then to find that
everything had been willed to me
—everything, Ron! I could have
cried when I heard it. And those
two poor things—Albert and Amy—
waiting for each other! I don’t know
now how they kept their courage up.”
“I’ll admit it must have been pretty
rough.”
“What is it, Ron?—‘Hope deferred
maketh the heart sick.’ Engaged for nearly
sixteen years! Of course, I went and bullied
them until they got married. You ought to
see them now! They’re transfigured, some-
how. You have to see it to understand
what I mean. Amy looks like a girl. And
dear old Albert walks about like a god.
They’re tasting real happiness for the first
time.”
Ronald looked at her in silence as though
suddenly abashed by the tremor in her
voice.
“Sometimes I just starkly hate money.
I’d like to do without money at all; but,
of course, that’s impossible. And yet see
what it does to people—money, and the lack
of money. The pursuit of money—that’s
the most hurtful thing of all, Ron.”
“Oh, come!” Ronald smiled gently. “I
can’t altogether follow you there, Lois.
Look at the good money can do. Look at
what you’ve just been telling me about
Albert, for example.”
“After all the years of its spiting him!”
she flashed.
“Well,” Ronald said seriously, “I think
it was jolly fine of you to do what you did.”
“Don’t! What do you think of my new
flat? I just had to live closer to my work,
you know. The Marsh cousins were awfully
kind to me—but so stodgy and virtuous!
And they simply couldn’t understand why I
loathed hearing about cheese and tinned
foods and overdrafts and all that kind of
thing. I dragged them all out once to hear
Percy Grainger play, and afterwards Pa
Marsh said he thought it very pretty, but
he preferred something lively on the flute.
He used to play it himself years ago, the
girls say. I found life there getting on my
nerves. It was like drinking champagne
out of a cracked teacup.”
Ronald was obediently observing the
room in detail. What he saw pleased him.
It was, he thought, exactly the fur-
nishings he would have looked for from
Lois. There were window curtains of bor-
dered Swiss muslin, Wedgwood blue. The
carpet was grey and blue, and the walls
were newly done to a dim, soft shade, with
a narrow dado of eccentric flowers. A
piano stood at one corner, and at the side
of the fireplace was a pouffe. Scattered
about were a couple of roomy armchairs, a
small table and a bookcase. Books and
papers were, in fact, untidily in evidence.
And there was a litter of music on the
mantel, to the manifest danger of a
Madonna-blue vase, and a small brass
Buddha, mostly stomach, who brooded upon
the extreme edge.
“How do you like my Anders Zorn?” Lois
demanded.
Ronald gave the few pictures upon the
wall a closer scrutiny. He decided that her
taste here was a' trifle bizarre. Against the
charm and placidity of a Hans Andersen
illustration was ranged the violence of an
etched book-plate by Franz Bayros.
“I always liked Zorn’s conception of
Sappho. Where did you get it?”
“Carl Ludowitz gave it to me. It was
an odd one in his exhibition of book-plates
at the Athena last year. I think it’s won-
derful.”
“Ludowitz?” Ronald exclaimed, flushing.
“I know you don’t like him, Ron. For
that matter, I don’t myself. But his manner
is charming, and his opinions in art count.
If I’m to eschew every man whose morals
are unsuspected, since their absence is more
or less taken for granted, I might as well
fold up my artistic wings and depart. I’m
sadly afraid I find the company and con-
versation of the morally departed most in-
triguing. It gives a flip to existence.”
“Is it necessary to accept presents? - ’
Ronald said stiffly.
“Politic rather than necessary,” Lois
laughed. “Why hurt Carl’s feelings? Ronald,
your mood to-day is disgusting. You do
nothing but rail.”
He went to take her hand, but she with-
drew it composedly. A hint of sadness
joined the mischief in her eyes.
“Please, Ron!”
“How long am I to go on like this—
without you? Lois, haven’t you a heart
at all? Everything, all my real life, is
held up. Nothing is fulfilled, nothing can
be fulfilled for me, for either of us—like
this.”
“I’m sorry, Ron, but that’s a single view-
point. I told you that I could never marry
where I did not love.”
“That will come,” he said passionately.
“Lois, won’t you believe me? Love will
come.”
“Be kind. It will be impossible for us
both if you persist. Do you think I shall
not recognise love when it does come to
me? I’ve known you for fifteen years.
They’ve taught me to respect you, to be
fond of you, but not to love you. I want
to go on respecting you.”
“I see. You’ve reduced me to a formula.”
Lois bit her lip. “Now, Ron, I’ve a
temper as well as yourself. Dear old boy,
do be sensible.”
“If that isn’t like a woman! You love
her, and say so; and she tells you to be
sensible. Great stuff!”
She ignored this. “Tell me about your
work. You’re to have an exhibition, aren’t
you? I do hope you sell well.”
“Tabor and I, between us. But not just
yet. At least, I’m not ready for it myself.
I’ve got a whole lot of roughed-out stuff to
work up when I can find the time.”
“But you said that last year. Ron, I’m
afraid you haven’t been working.”
He found her direct gaze a little dis-
concerting. It was all very well, he thought,
to criticise. People never realised how diffi-
cult it was to paint. One wasn’t always in
the right mood either. There v/ere all sorts
of things that handicapped serious art.
“Of course I’ve been working. Hang it,
Lois, you know I have. But I'm not going
to be rushed into mediocrity, even by you.
It’ll be my first exhibition, and I have to
watch my step. With all these damned
critics!”
Lois smiled at his injured tone. But in-
wardly she sighed. It was just this lack of
determination in his character that had
always saddened her. He went so far, but
no farther. He played. Achievement was
somehow just a catchword. It ran ahead
of him the whole time, as a shadow runs
when the sun is at one’s back. He went
on, weakly excusing himself.
Without meaning to, she pursued the
thought.
“There’s no need for hurry,” he insisted.
“I’ve plenty to live on. There’s that about
it. I don’t have to paint against time. I
can let myself mature in a normal way.”
“Yes, Ron,” Lois conceded. But she did
not add her belief that ease was almost
invariably inimical to progress. It came
to her that this tinkering with ambition
was but one more illustration of the bubble
reputation of worldly worth.
Ronald moodily watched her abstraction.
Her sweetness and desirableness had never
so stirred him as now. Her head was
slightly drooped, and a cluster of black curls
fell like blossoms over her cheek. There
was something delicious in the very quiet-
ness with which she sat, as though tran-
quillity had taken human shape before his
eyes. He looked hungrily at the gleam of
white forehead behind the smoking veil
of her hair, at the quick, warm lines of
her cheek and throat, the sensitive yet firm
mouth, and the rounded, alert chin.
He said presently: “Dreaming, Lois?”
Lois gave him a sweet, consoling smile.
“It’s a rotten habit, but it isn’t really
personal. I just seem to float off.”
“I ran into Jasper yesterday.”
“Jasper, Ron? How did he look? Was
he happier, do you think? Did you
speak to him?”
“I thought that would get your atten-
tion,” Ronald said. But the little, half-hurt
emphasis was robbed of seriousness by his
suddenly softened eyes. “Ye 3, we talked
for a bit. I’m afraid things are much the
same. Cora, you see, expected him to—
well, it’s hard to say what she did expect.
At any rate, it wasn’t failure.”
“You mean his business isn’t prospering?”
“It never did prosper. I don’t understand
much about that sort of thing, but from
what I can make out it’s the position that’s
killing it. The shopping centre, or what-
ever you call it, moved away a couple of
streets a month after they signed their lease.
Practically all the trade has gone to the new
shops.”
“What a shame I” Lois exclaimed.
Ronald shrugged his shoulders.
“I. suppose it’s the luck of the game. But
you can guess how hardly Jasper is taking
it. He can’t get rid of his lease, and he
hasn’t enough capital to take on a second
shop in the meantime.”
“It wouldn’t matter—l mean, it would
be bearable, if....if Cora held up his
hands,” Lois said slowly. “It’s no use blink-
ing the fact that she doesn’t. It’s easy, hor-
ribly easy, to read between the lines. But
Jasper hasn’t ever said anything.”
“He wouldn’t. I expect it goes rather
too deep for words. Haven’t j r ou seen him,
Lois?”
“Not since their baby died. Oh, Ron,
it does seem hard. He had such high hopes.
And now, in little more than a year, all
this to happen! But, then, as I said, they
should still have themselves. Perhaps it’s
only a phase with Cora. She’ll get over
her disappointment and impatience, and help
to hold up his hands against the world.
There’s plenty of good in her.”
“I hope so,” said Ronald, but there was
an uneasy doubt in his eyes. “She’s the
nagging type. And she’s been damned ex-
travagant with the little they had. I know
that much. I can’t understand how Jasper
came to marry her.”
Lois said reprovingly: “It’s no use dis-
cussing that.”
“I suppose not. The point is, Cora seems
to have broken his luck. Look here, why
don’t you talk to her?”
“I might' if I thought it would do any
good. But you know that it would not.
I’d probably be told to mind my own busi-
ness.”
“If that’s meant for me,” Ronald said
good humoredly, “I don’t quite deserve it.
You’ve known Cora long enough to be able
to tell her the truth. She’s fouling her own
nest, if you know what I mean. She’s
mad for Jasper to make big money, and yet
she’s doing the very things that will hinder
him most.
He looked at his watch, and rose reluc-
tantly.
Lois’s smile faded with the closing of the
door. It was not for some time that she
roused from her abstraction to take up her
work.
CHAPTER XVIII.
Millstones.
Cora’s child had died within an hour of
birth. Perhaps if it had lived for eerne
days at least, or if Cora had not been so
desperately ill herself, Jasper’s hurt
would have been deeper. His anxiety for
Cora mercifully held his thought from
brooding. She was in a high fever for
nearly a week, and her convalescence was
slow, and was marked by great depressions
and irritabilities.
(Continued on page Ift.)


G<xd>
Ybxx-
Tkix Mends
and-
Jf! f t
FINE
HU&
g|JA6Ur®^;
%
9
&
> ,vc-. tfl
r,
V ».V /<
AS EXCLUSIVELY SUPPLIED TO THE
IttPSRMLINSTItfIT&
m
fi msrSND Clubs
John'DewaroSons li
Dishllers PERTmScoHandU LONDON
PRODUCE OF SCOTLAND^
Brn, “ u«0(* mt supervision or me cohmonwul v
W
■*>
m
■x\<£
fcv/
HJ
rs=J
fa
iSs
n
%
m
s'
m
A
$
t
/?
0
D E WAR’S
SCOTCH WHISKY
Qhe Best qf CjoocL Spirits


mi
m
... '
ABOVE is Charles Farrell, famous Fox Star—
“ a very remarkable fellow 1 ” He is here seen
precariously perched on a high bicycle in a
“ race ” with a Ford tractor ! Become “ a
remarkable fellow ” yourself, by following the
film-stars’ example and taking Cream of Yeast.
ON THE RIGHT is Nancy Carroll, a com-
parative newcomer to the ranks of famous Fox
players. We predict great success for her with
that winning “ Cream of Yeast smile 1 ”
Famous People-
II
and a Famous Medicine
Cream of Yeast is a genuine way to better
Health—the remedy chosen by famous
people who dare not let headaches, “bad
nerves” and dull complexions take their toll.
Cream of Yeast is a produdt of chemical skill and
great resources; it is improbable that, for average
needs, a more beneficial medicinal tablet could be
made ; it is certain that this remedy gives satisfaction
to the public; it is a positive fact that it is safe.
Take Cream of Yeast when tired and depressed. Take
it for aches and pains, “ nervy spells,” sour stomach,
listlessness and dull complexion. Do not suppose
plain brewers’ yeast can give the same benefits. Re-
member: this remedy is a medicinal yeast-compound,
costing more to make than plain yeast tablets, yet
costing you no more. Your money back if the very first
bottle of Cream of YeaSl doesn't do you a 'world of good s
What Famous Medical Men Say
In an interview in one of the greatest newspapers in the
world, Dr. Victor Pauchet, a leading French Physician,
Commander of the Legion of Honour, recipient of the
Croix de Guerre , recommends Yeast as a remedy foi
intestinal stagnation. He says : —“ Yeast ... is a food
rich in Vitamin B and increases vitality. It is thus a boon
to the health of humanity.”
In a London interview reported in another great news-
paper, Dr. Leonard Williams, Fellow of the Royal Society
of Medicine, educated in England, Scotland, France and
Germany, and well-known author of several books on
Health, said : —“ 1 frequently see people who , though they
claim to be well , are nevertheless much below concert pitch.
«'S6A »;
YEASTS’ VALUE
<9t
l
PAHIS, July 24.—-Dr. Victor Pt.
i stffcet. French ‘
1 (mUntUt. announces today t>» / “fe? ** ot *3ro
T ' mrrW.LT *u>Z?°M„ r °' a '
: act/. *
** or F*r? t * , a* <Jl *r>* o/ £****& OJ»e/
ih". &>Ai+v3*» /> «*7> fo v ,fo./ r
;t£i’ L th <i r ■•Vo'J'ot"' ®4'.7
pK' *v* '• v,t * >*-/
t v «*. -W
* “//•- . r J// # .To * / C«/ /
1
v*i,, of i~v „„,Tar.-J"f'wST***,
iitnX?
biiuh. II irtaw. ux> kui'UKr
>s*£r
They are not ill , but they ail. For such people 1 should recom-
mend less feasting and more yeasting ! Yeast is more than a
medicament —it rouses the system to full physiological efficiency
of assimilation.**
d
AT THE LEFT George O’Brien, talented Fox Star,
casts an expert eye at the golf clubs. See him in
“ Speakeasy,” a night-life drama. Follow the film-stars’
example —Exercise and Cream of Yeast !
AT THE RIGHT we introduce you to Rex Bell, a real
Fox hero of the “ wild and woolly West.” Does he
take Cream of Yeast ? . . . Well, look at that smile !
Take Cream
Yeast yourself for
Thrilling Health!
Take it for Head-
aches, Indigestion,
Sleeplessness, Bad
Nerves, Poor Complexion. Any Chemist can
•upply you. 24 Tablets, 1/11, 48, S/6,
125 for 5/9,
AT THE RIGHT Is
pretty June Marlowe,
“Universal” featured
player. She says Cream
of Yeast is wonderful
when feeling “ below
par ”
X-x
r
m
A
Thrilling Health ! "
Cream
of Yeast
CREAM
YEAST
c*
If not near a Chemist, order Cream of Yeast by Post
from Amalgamated Laboratories, Kernbla Building, Sydney.
N.Z. Agents: Ashford & Batten,
22 Victoria Street, Wellington.


D
■
Shapt
As beauty shouM
go beautifully —
<C?o Beauty should be
t-G/served in beauty. It is
unthinkable that Milady’s
guests should take tea in cups
less than perfect in elegance
of form and substance. The
name of Shelley (hidden under
every piece) promises no less.
English Bone China, fashion-
ed by hereditary craftsmen in
Shelley’s service, can yield
no more—and this is the envy
of potters the world over!
Ask to see the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
/ y Lucie Attweu
&Hilda Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
IM CASE OF ANY DIFFICULTY IN OBTAININC
white to
LAR.INCE ST*
SMIPHV‘I |
ďf
For the Home
iLii&M
“PRIMA”
PAINT
SPRAYER
CELLULOSE
PAINT
OUTFIT.
For the Car-owner and Garage.
PRIMA CO., LTD., Birmingham
Details from Factory Representative,
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne.
iboXciri
ktkeri* face!
Notice his smile when he
sees what’s for breakfast-
Anchovette on toast. It tickles
the palates of all the family, and
it’s so easily prepared. Get ajar
from your grocer to-day.
Try also Peck’s Salmon and
Shrimp Paste, or the new line,
Kippavette.
Peck's
£
&
The
delicious
Fish Paste
S 3
In Days of Old
White hair was
all the vogue.
In modern days
grey or white
hair is consid-
ered a sign of
appr o a c h i n g
age.
It is NOT “THE
THING.”
All traces of Grey can readily be removed
by an application of
Dr. Allen’s (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Sold at all Chemists and Stores.
Harmless, easy
to apply, can-
not be detected
Australian Agents:
DUERDIN AND
SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street,
Melbourne.
d
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. j
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
11-' 1 nk offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
The Cigar of generous size and weight.
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
6d.
Box prices:—
10 Cigars, 5/6 (posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/- (posted 12/6)
50 „ 23/- (posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/- (posted 46/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars,
1/- Post Free.
a
i
a
II
a
l
m
CRAIG AND AITKEN
SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR
CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY
He was intensely relieved to find that the
loss of her little son seemed scarcely to
affect her, even though he could not under-
stand how this might be. Indeed, there
were moments when he chided himself for
an inexplicable feeling that she was actu-
ally indifferent. Her sickness would, no
doubt, account for that. Jasper was grate-
ful that realisation was thus clouded for
her, so that the agony of bereavement was
soothed by the very slowness of its per-
ceptions.
There were four rooms at the back of
the shop, divided by a narrow passage which
opened into an asphalted yard. They had
been comfortable enough when they first
moved in, about the middle of the autumn.
Cora, indeed, had been delighted with
everything. It was all so new and so dif-
ferent from Guruwa, with the electric lights
on the streets and the neat houses all around
and the ebb and flow of life and events, that
they both felt as if interest could go no
further. v
The shop itself, with its plate-glass win-
dow and brightly-varnished door, gave them
a sense of importance. It was a symbol, all
this, of the potentialities of the new life;
it was like peeping through a slot into a
future all bright and burnished with success.
The utterly-unexpected announcement
that a new electric-tram route had been
decided upon came like a thunderbolt into
their midst. Almost immediately the centre
of trade-gravity began to move away from
Jasper’s area. He was powerless to join
the business tide, and could only watch with
sinking heart the mushroom-like progress
of the new shops that sprang upon the bor-
ders of the tram-line operations. At the
end of the third month his custom had
fallen by one-third. The week of Cora’s
lying-in his takings failed to meet the rent.
He would have withheld this news from
her, but her suspicions were aroused, and
she demanded irritably their usual weekly
accounting. Cora’s temper had been short
for some days past, and now it flared sud-
denly. She began to twit him with an over-
estimation of his cleverness, and bitterly
reproached him for mistaken judgment.
Jasper, although resentful, sought to excuse
the injustice of this upon the score of her
health. But the incident rankled.
It was not for some time after Cora was
recovered sufficiently to take her place once
more in the shop, when his anxiety had sent
him abroad in search of odd commissions to
eke out their business takings, that Jasper
realised that her attitude towards him was
increasingly accusing. There v/ere endless
arguments, recriminations. He came to the
point of desperation.
“I’ve done and I’m doing my best. Can’t
you see that we were not to know of this
handicap? It might have happened to any-
one. I can’t foresee everything.”
Cora said sullenly: “You can’t expect any
woman to settle to this sort of thing—
damned school-kids coming in with their
greasy pennies; it makes me sick. Never
a minute to myself, not a single pleasure
in life.”
“Well, if it comes to that, I’m not so
gay myself. I wish you’d realise that all
these things will come later.”
It was curious, he thought dully, to see
her white face glimmering through the little
haze of his anger. Her eyes seemed as
though crouching to spring, and she was
for ever wetting her lips with her tongue.
The habit brought him a growing irritation.
While he fought with this she remained
silent, staring at him.
He said presently, making an effort to
smile: “Don’t let’s quarrel, Cora. Look
here, it’s just a case of bucking down to
things for a little while, and they’ll come
right. I’ve been thinking pretty hard
lately. I’m beginning to get a line on to
quite a lot.”
“So am I,” she sneered.
Jasper winced.
“What I mean is that there are ways
of turning opportunity to account. It’s
done every day. I don’t know just how;
not yet. But I shall. The thought will come.”
“Will it?” She shrugged, indifferently,
ignoring his sudden eagerness. “Well, it
can’t come too soon. I didn’t slave any
worse at Fernhill than I do here.”
“I’m sorry,” Jasper said.
He sat a little while watching her turn-
ing the leaves of a magazine. She seemed
to his weary gaze to have coarsened greatly
in the past few weeks. Her dress was slov-
enly, her blouse .half-buttoned and soiled
at the neck and wrists, skirts crumpled and
stockings askew. There was a smear of car-
mine on her full lips, and powder clung
lumpishly about her eyes and the depres-
sions on either side of her nose.
In the first few months of their marriage,
when he had known a desperate need to
excuse the folly which had betrayed them,
he persuaded himself that they loved each
other. Later he was bitterly amused when
he thought of this. But he was sure that
he had liked Cora, could still like her, per-
haps grow in time to a real affection for
her, if she would let him. He wanted that
this might be. He felt that the burden of
their ill-assortment rested most heavily, and
rightly so, upon himself; that he owed it
to her to make the best of things as they
were.
Only Cora somehow would not subscribe
to this. All the insolence and ugliness in
her nature had sprung up in condemnation
of his business failure. Her attitude said
frankly that without material reward the
pretence was no longer worth while. Even
Tod’s well-meant interventions were un-
availing to stem the widening breach.
Tod had a habit of looking in on them
unexpectedly of an evening or a Sunday
afternoon. He described himself mysteri-
ously now as “following the game.” On
hot nights he would sit with Jasper in the
back yard, a cigarette smoking on his lip
and his hands clasped behind his head. He
would break in upon Jasper’s abstraction
with remarkable statements, illustrative of
his own acumen, delivered in a hoarse, con-
fiding whisper.
“Cripes, Jasper, a man wants to keep his
eye on that Noo South Wales filly Flea-
bite. I watched her over five hurdles this
morning, and she’s hot stuff.”
Or: “The tan was fast to-day all right.
Cripes, I saw Benzine do a mile and three
furlongs in 2.29. There’s something doing
there. You wait and see.”
Or: “Listen. I was talking to Morrie
Smirt this morning. They’re saving Wire-
weed for the Caulfield. But not a word.
You wait till I say go, and then put your
shirt on.”
Jasper would listen to these whisperings
without interest. He would turn the talk
to the channels of his own thought, but to
no mirnose. Tod’s obsession returned
to the barrier.
.“I had a quid'on Turkscap last Saturday
at four to one, and all up Best Wish.
Cripes, if I didn’t blow the lot on Dearie
in the second last. Talk about stiff luck!
It was the oil, too. Dirty doings some-
where. Worst day I’ve had.”
His winnings, upon the whole, were enor-
mous. Jasper, brooding upon his own strug-
gles, at first knew a jealous belief of Tod’s
boastings. Chance interrogation, however,
revealed that this success was more often
imaginary than real. Thereafter he was
but moderately impressed.
But even small winnings on Tod’s part
appeared as a satire on Jasper’s own profit-
less toiling. It galled him to think that
Tod should so easily and unarduously solve
the problem of money-making, however
modestly. Yet only once was he tempted
to employ a like means. He had overheard
mention of a horse as a sure winner in a
big forthcoming meeting. He made a note
of the name, and when Tod next appeared
Jasper submitted it cautiously.
“Know a horse called Sweet Pea, Tod?’"
“Do I?” Tod was distinctly amused at
this innocent query. But his rather deri-
sive grin vanished at sight of Jasper’s seri-
ous face. Cunning wrinkled the corners of
his eyes. “What’s the office?” he demanded.
Jasper explained what he had overheard.
“A big man with a brown beard. Wore
glasses. Looked a horsey customer, too.”
“I should say he was!” Tod recognised
the description without hesitation. His
expression became compounded of import-
ance and artifice. “Why, damn it, that was
Jim Pugsnod, the big trainer.”
“The point is,” Jasper said anxiously, “is
there anything in what he said? Will
Sweet Pea win?”
“Listen,” Tod implored. He shook a
grimy, eloquent hand at Jasper. “Sweet
Pea can’t lose. Cripes, your fortune’s made.
It can’t lose.”
“You’ve said that before about other
horses.” But Jasper was excited, none the
less. After all, it was curious that his ears
should have picked up the titbit just when
his luck was at lowest ebb. It might very
well be, he told himself, that this was the
turning-point. “You said that last week—
I’ve forgotten the name of the horse. But
I know that it lost.”
Tod’s disclaimer was magnificent. “Don’t
you understand? This is the oil from Pugs-
nod himself. Those fellows know. I tell
you they know. It’s picking up money.”
His enthusiasm infected Jasper, whose
caution for once yielded. He lowered his
voice.
“Don’t tell Cora, but I’ve got ten pounds
put aside. I didn’t mean ever to touch it
except in some sort of emergency. Look
here, Tod, you take and put it on Sweet
Pea on Saturday.”
“A tenner!” Tod exclaimed, awe-stricken.
“Cripes, isn’t that pretty hot?”
Jasper said, between excitement and im-
patience: “Never you mind that. A chance
like this—wait here and I’ll get the money.”
Sweet Pea ran last in a field of nine.
Curiously Tod absented himself for nearly
three weeks following the fiasco. He ex-
plained on appearance that he had been
looking over a job at Cheltenham. Until
Jasper spoke of Sweet Pea Tod seemed to
have forgotten all about the incident of the
ten pounds. He became loud in condolence.
“Cripes, yes. Cut I didn’t want to rub
it in. Sweet P<( >nly runs with two legs.
He’s a washout.”
“Serves me right,” Jasper said.
He would have thrust the whole unhappy
business from his mind there and then, but
for Tod’s insecure memory.
Tod said patronisingly: “Remember how
I warned you not to touch it? Cripes, I
know ’em. Sweet Pea wasn’t ever a horse.
He’s what they call a book’s blessing.”
“Why”—Jasper took fire—“you told me
he couldn’t lose!”
“I did!” Tod exclaimed. He went a dull,
confused purple. “Well, suppose I did. A
man must make a mistake now and again.”
“But you say now that you always knew
Sweet Pea was no good. Look here, Tod,
the horse lost, so that’s all about it. But
I want to know if you ever laid the money
at all.”
Tod began to splutter, but Jasper checked
him coldly.
“I’ve told you I don’t care. I just want
to know who took the bet.”
“I did,”/Tod admitted. He eyed Jasper’s
rather crooked smile with deepening color.
But his voice took on a new defiance.
(Continued on page 50.)


in Curope
i
fd
S.S. “Duchess of Bedford”
S.S. “Duchess of Atholl”
These two magnificent liners are
the latest addition to the mighty
Canadian Pacific fleet of steam-
ships. They show the greatest
advance in modern ocean travel.
Lavish luxury abounds and the
saloon accommodation is the last
word in ease and comfort.
These speedy 20,000 tonners have
introduced exclusiveness into cabin
classification between Canada and
England.
Passengers have the use of practic-
ally the whole promenade deck—
for walks, sports and in-the-open
dancing.
Australian travellers can make cabin reservations in Sydney. Write for the
beautifully illustrated literature to any office of the Union S.S. Co. of N.Z.,
any Tourist Booking Agency, or J. Sclater, Traffic Manager for Australia
and New Zealand, Canadian Pacific Railway Company, Union House,
247 George Street, Sydney.
CANADIAN PACIFIC
Ken-L-Ratioiv
T Dog food
Supreme
m
A perfectly balanced meat ration; keeps
all breeds of dogs in perfect condition.
Composed of clean, wholesome red meat,
oatmeal, fresh onions and cod liver
oil in exactly the right proportions.
FREE —Sample Tin sent on request
without charge.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB
P. O. Box 1821, Melbourne
Ken-T rßation
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
FOR SALE
“ Coonardoo " Illustrations
The original drawings, by C. H. Percival, are
now for sale.
The Manager,
THE BULLETIN OFFICE, SYDNEY.
THE BIG FOUR!
PROVISION FOR YOUR OLD AGE
PROTECTION FOR YOUR DEPENDENTS
A PROFITABLE INVESTMENT
CREATION OF AN IMMEDIATE ESTATE
Are ensured under Life policies with the
A.M.P. SOCIETY.
Participating policies effected by 31st December will share in the
Cash Bonus for 1928.
Cash Bonus allotted on 30th June last represented an average
return to participating members of 11/7 in EACH POUND OF
PREMIUMS PAID IN 1927.
Head Office,
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
H. W. APPERLY,
General Manager.
Tennis Balls
ďf
12|- Doz.
These balls were
used for two sets at
Pratten Park Turf
Championships.
In Perfect Condition.
100 Dozen Available.
Postage, l/~ doz., or free
on 2-dozen lots.
N.S.W. SPORTS
STORE, LTD.,
11-13 MARTIN PLACE,
SYDNEY.
ALAN KIPPAX, Director.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CLUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISLAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAL ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Leading
Advertising Agencies.


A Message to
Kidney Sufferers
DR. SHELDON’S GIN PILLS are the remedy you require for Back-
ache, Kidney, Bladder, and Urinary Trouble. If they don’t benefit you
we will refund the purchase price. SHELDON DRUG CO., LTD.
That’s a plain, straightforward statement, and the words mean exactly
what they say.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are the remedy you need if you suffer from
Backache, Kidney, Bladder or Urinary Trouble.
They must benefit you, or your money will be cheerfully refunded.
You are to be the judge and jury.
Your word will be accepted as final.
Your money will be returned without quibble or argument of any kind
if Gin Pills do not benefit you.
Consider what this method of doing business means.
It means that Gin Pills will benefit 99 cases of Backache, Kidney, Blad-
der or Urinary Troubles out of every 100.
• We have substantial proof of these from practically every centre in
Australia.
' It also means that we have a large faith in the honesty of men and
women.
We do not believe that a single man or woman out of 100 who have
suffered the torments of Backache, Kidney, Bladder or Urinary troubles
would deny the benefit they would receive from treatment with Gin Pills.
We are sure 99 out of 100 would joyously admit it.
GIN
PILLS
WILL
HELP YOU
This extraordinary offer is made because of these facts:—
The known medicinal properties of Gin Pills and the honesty of human
nature.
Each Gin Pill contains all the constituents, with the exception of al-
cohol, of a pint of the finest gin, combined with other known diuretics, and
forms a remedy which benefits almost every case. Gin Pills are put up in
glass bottles, hermetically sealed, and we sell them to you with the abso-
lute assurance that if they do not benefit you we will refund your money.
They are sold in two size bottles—at 1/9, or in large bottles, holding
more than double the quantity, at 2/9.
Buy a large bottle at 2/9 and give them a fair test, use two-thirds of
the bottle, and if you feel they are not benefiting you, return your bottle
to the chemist or storekeeper from whom you purchased it, and he will
refund the money; or communicate direct with the Sheldon Drug Co., Limi-
ted, 131-35 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Under these conditions is it not worth while for any sufferer from
Backache, Kidney, Bladder or Urinary Trouble to at once test this won-
derful remedy?
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
For Backache and Kidney Troubles
m
m
mssum
The Wonderful Spectacular Sprinkler
The Watering Device that out-distances all others. For the thorough
watering of Golf Courses, Fairways and Putting Greens, Large Lawns
and Bowling Greens, Orchards, Lucerne Fields, etc. The Spectacular
is easily King of all Sprinklers it is the Brainiest Idea yet for thorough
watering, void of the many troubles belonging to other Sprinklers.
There s no flooding in parts, nor puddling with the Spectacular, and
it carries on without excessive watching. The Travelling Spectacular
may be left working all through the night without the least fear ot
trouble.
J
Spectacular Stationary Type
Price of Stationary Type, com-
plete with Stand and Hose Con-
nection,
£5/15/-
Price of Travelling Type complete
with Hose Connection,
£6/15/-
Descriptive Folder Post Free on
Request.
Spectacular Travelling Type.
ax' 7 :
piiimnininniiii
I NOS'?
Diiniiiiimiuii
Miimtminmma
NHOP I
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
324-330 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
The Blessedness of Being Wanted.
.4 RODSING TALE OF THE WILD GULF COUNTRY, BY A. P. ROGERS.
DROVER Hilty had not slept for five
nights. He was escorting 1000 fat
bullocks on their 400-mile walk from
Vandema station in the Gulf country to
Townsville, and their nightly rushes had got
him down. His count was twenty short, his
nerves were frayed, and swearing no longer
gave him relief. On the sixth day out he
saw a rare sight, a traveller, and he smiled
for the first time that week. For it was
Crombie, who had a magic way of sub-
duing wild cattle in those hours when church-
yards yawn.
“No,” said Crombie, “I won’t go south.
I’m going across towards the Territory. I
know the Vandemas of old, and I like sleep-
ing at night. And I don’t want to get drunk,
or buy new pack-saddles.”
But Hilty was an Irishman, and tactful.
He did not argue with Crombie, but begged
him to ride along with the mob for a day or
so —just for company.
“The divil a tap will you do ; just let me
talk to ye. I have only, two white men, and
they’re stupid blaggards wid no conversa-
tion. I’ve got so full of talk that it’s oozing
out of me.”
Crombie felt lonely also. He let himself
be beguiled. and handed over his outfit to
the horse-tailer. That night, at twelve o’clock,
despite Hilty’s show of protest, Crombie
caught one of his horses and took the mid-
night watch.
Between. Crombie and wild cattle there
was certainly some hidden understanding.
As he rode round the recumbent Herefords,
he crooned a kind of song or barbaric melody.
The restless ones, the rush leaders, as they
woke from bovine nightmares and rose ner-
vously,. peering into the darkness, scented
Crombie and heard his crooning, and after
edging about for awhile, lay down again re-
assured. There was no rush that night, nor
for a week, save a mild stampede during one
of Hilty’s watches.
Crombie again strove to go on his way,
pointing out that the cattle were quieting
down; but eventually he again gave way to
Hilty’s blandishments. He agreed to go as
far as Dick the Dog’s, where the route left
the forest for the plains, but no farther.
Invitations to go right on to Cloneurry,
where Hilty knew some “fine gur-rls,” left
him cold.
The two men were seated by the camp
fire., and the gleam of coals at night tends
to induce confidences.
“I suppose, Hilty, you have heard my
secret —that I’m wanted by the police. A
little job of killing a man, so they say. It’s
nice to feel that somebody wants you, isn’t
it? But the joke is they don’t want me very
much.”
“That’s no good, is it?” said Hilty, who
felt that some kind of condolence was called
for.
“Mankind loves being wanted, Hilty. But
is it any good? I doubt it. For myself I
like the forest back there—it leaves me alone.
“There’s plenty of men out here whom
the police want more or less,” he continued
presently. “The police are not bad coves.
They tipped me off years ago to keep away
from inside. If I go where they fence in
cattle—and human beings—l’ll be sticking
my head into the lion’s jaws.
“After that,” he went on, “you’ll be dis-
appointed to hear that I am innocent. The
man messed my life up. At last I said
I’d kill him. We had a fight, and he fell
down and cracked his neck. I was sick of
everything, and I made for the timber—to
forget, more than from fear of gaol. I think
people reckoned he needed killing, and the
police have never bothered me much; but,
of course, I should have stayed and seen the
thing out. I would have gene back long ago
and seen it through, only that I’ve got to like
all this. The forest gives what it has, and
asks nothing back. Now what do you think
of it all, Hilty?”
But Mr. Hilty had fallen asleep.
So Crombie went on southward, and the
Vandemas grew tamer every day, and
munched peacefully at the melon vines and
lush grasses that were drying and crackling
in the warm autumn sun. Autumn in Gulf-
land is a cloudless, windless season of in-
effable peace. But after three weeks’ jour-
neying, as they approached Dick the Dog’s,
Crombie grew restless. It was as though he
could hear the hum of a far-off civilisation.
In one day two travellers had passed them.
Fences were growing frequent;, and the
forest was thinning out. The outlaw looked
regretfully at the Vandemas.
“To-morrow,” he said, “I go back ; but you
go on—to be knocked on the head and eaten.
You’re wanted worse than I am.”
That night an astonishing visitor ap-
proached the camp-fire—a girl dressed in
fashionable riding clothes. She was in
obvious distress. Scanning the men’s faces
in the flickering light, she appeared to select
Crombie instinctively. She explained to
him that she was living near by with her
father, who had suddenly taken ill; that she
felt helpless by, herself, and seeing the camp-
fire across the plain had come for help.
The other men looked at Crombie, and
clearly indicated that this was his job. So,
somewhat rebelliously, he went with the girl.
“We are newchums, name of Gordon.”
she said. “Father thought the dry air here
would suit him and bought this selection.
Our overseer got thirsty and went, and we
are stranded. Then poor Dad gets this
attack.”
On arriving at the homestead Crombie
found that the invalid was in no danger.
His chief need seemed to be masculine
company. and after a few hours’ talk he
begged Crombie not to go.
“As you’re leaving the drovers, stay with
us—stay a month if you like. I can see you’re
a man of our world, and I want to talk of
something besides cattle. The place is up-
side down, but I don’t want you to bother
about it—blast it!”
Crombie reflected that he had heard this
story before, but was not going to be caught
again. He did not want to be a target for
conversation. However, he felt secretly re-
joiced at the sight of things long denied him —
pictures, rugs and books; supper served on
dainty silver ; the young woman whose speech
and manner woke up a past that lay forgotten
behind a wall of ten years. She was very
attractive.
Next morning he said good-bye to the
Vandemas and to Hilty and his men, and
explained that he was staying for a day with
the Gordons ; whereat Hilty grinned inwardly.
Crombie found it even harder to leave
Gordon than it had been to escape Hilty. The
man was helpless, and the place shamefully
neglected, and he could not well disregard
the appeals of the invalid —and of his
daughter. So he lingered on, attending to
urgent tasks, and Gordon joyfully devoted
himself to his books and to talking to Crombie
at night.
Miss Gordon studied cookery-books
furiously, and spent much time in composing
dainty dishes for the visitor; though, sad to
relate, he had to initiate her into the secrets
of bush cooking—how to bake bread, boil
rice and roast meat.
This went on for a fortnight. Crombie felt
that he was courting danger, but was deter-
mined to snatch a little bit of paradise before
returning again, to exile. The girl rode out
with him every day, and he taught her much
bushcraft, and explained to her the ways of
wild cattle and the mysteries of the forest
that stretched away northward. She charmed
him with her honesty and her ever-ready
laughter. He felt the love madness creeping
upon him.
The homestead was built at the fringe of
the forest. Northward, a dense wall of tim-
ber stretched away, untouched by the axe, to
the very shores of the Gulf. Here tongues of
greenery crept out into the downs that rolled
away to southward almost treeless. About
dusk each day Crombie would look over the
plains to the far-distant smokes on the
southern horizon, as if they were signals of
danger, seeing in them tokens of men’s ruth-
lessness and cruelty one to the other.
One day Crombie heard from the mailman,
who passed them weekly, that a police-
man was going the rounds on some official
duties. This brought him to his senses, and
that evening he announced his intention of
leaving next morning.
“Quite impossible!” said Gordon. “I will
pay you double salary to manage the place,
for I’ll never be able to get another man for
the job that I can talk to. If money won’t
tempt you, remember this wandering life
leads nowhere. You should settle down where
you are contented and are wanted.”
“Being wanted is not always agreeable,”
replied Crombie. “Being wanted by the police,
for example ! You know nothing about me.
I may be an escaped criminal.”
“I don’t care if you are. Real criminals
do not live in the bush, anyway. I rely on
my own judgment.”
Miss Gordon agreed; upon which Crombie
noted that she looked more attractive than
ever in her well-tailored riding kit, and that
she was more of a brunette than that other
one who, years ago, had prejudiced him
against all women, blondes in particular.
But what right had he to be thinking of
her in this way?
The discussion, resumed next morning, was
interrupted by a solitary rider coming across
the plain towards the homestead. He wore
the semi-military uniform of the Queensland
police.
Crombie’s self-respect forbade flight; he
resolved to see it out. But he looked regret-
fully northward to the forest.
The trooper was young and was anxious
to be thought a terror to miscreants. He said
he was collecting statistics, but hinted at
sinister problems which he meant to unravel.
At the first opportunity he whispered to
Crombie that he wished to see him alone.
A dull sense of loneliness smote the outlaw,
like a bayonet thrust. This boy could not
take him; he would stand him off somehow.
But it meant flight, and then exile across the
border in the Territory.
The policeman enjoyed being entertained,
and a trying time passed for Crombie in
dining and discussing cattle, poddy dodgers
and the political situation. At length the
constable admitted that he was a busy man,
and asked Crombie if he wohld come for a
ride with him. Crombie smiled grimly; he
had often pictured this scene to himself.
But he had to await certainty before act-
ing, and his face was drawn and sombre as
he sat on his horse waiting while the trooper
bade his good-byes.
He found presently that Fate had been
jesting with him. The constable had not
recognised him, and merely wanted his opin-
ion about the brand on one of the Vandemas
that Hilty had dropped, lame, from the mob.
On this point Crombie quickly satisfied him;
and for the first time that day he felt un-
concerned enough to listen to the young
man’s chatter.
“We have to deal with a tough lot,” he
boasted; “but we can handle them. There's
scores of men ’way up the Gulf wanted for
things down south in other States. Not real
criminals, you know. We don’t bother ’em
much if they behave and keep away. Often,
though, they just fade out. There was a
chap like that whose photo used to be in our
gallery. A while ago word came through
withdrawing his description. Something had
come to light showing he was innocent. But
wouldn’t it be a joke if he was still sticking
to the timber, not knowing? Dam’ funny,
wouldn’t it be? Mervin was his name—if
you should ever drop across him.”
“Are you really telling the truth, that—
that Mervin is proved innocent, and no
longer wanted?”
“Yes; damn it, of course! But don’t
wrench my arm off. What’s up with you?”
“Oh,” said Crombie, calm again, “Mervin
is a friend of mine.”
From all this it might reasonably be ex-
pected that a pleasant scene would have
(Continued on next page.)


Buy your Leave Car
with fixed re-purchase Price
The beautifully illustrated and helpful Brochure
entitled “Seeing Engltnd by Car” describes the
most comprehensive Car Service ever evolved—en-
abling you to have your own Car while in England
with re-purchase price fixed before you buy it*
W rite for free copy of
this brochure to-day
HENLYS
England’s Leading
Motor Agent*,
Devonshire House,
l'i cadi'ly, W. 1 ,
and 9 other branches r*-
in London and C
Manchester. J
A Free Copy of “Seeing England by
sent free on application from the
paper, 214 George Street North,
Car” will be
offices of this
, Sydney.
INDIGESTION
IS DANGEROUS
Many people trifle with indigestion as a “minor
ailment.” Never was a worse mistake! “Indigestion”
can mean ulcerated stomach —and may affect the
heart. Anti-acids and magnesia are unsatisfactory;
their brief relief lulls to a false sense of security.
You must not only get rid of the acid but the cause
of the acid, and the one sure way to do that is to
get some six-grain tablets of Para-Pepsin and take
three with each meal. Para-Pepsin not only stops
stomach distress; it maintains correct digestion,
sweetens the breath, and helps Nature in a positive
way to real stomach health. The cost is very small,
and chemists everywhere not only supply Para-Pepsin,
but recommend it for digestive disorders.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE ... .. .. 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
K’fl
th£ d f!nU
+"Zt. home
The name “ GORDON ” guarantees the very
highest standard of quality and absolute
purity; a reputation enjoyed and jealously
guarded for over 150 years.
Gordon’s Gin is produced in London,
England, by the original process of distillation
from the original recipe, the secrets of which
belong to the HOUSE of GORDON and
have been handed down through generations.
It is for this reason Gordon’s Gin has the
largest sale at Home and throughout the
World; having no rival for Purity or
Quality.
G @ v d® fin’s
GIN
Guaranteed distilled
in London, England ♦
1
■#i3
Gordons
iigpj
DRYCIN
V) 1 tv!
t H OlA«o
"oiITIILIO ••• IOHDOH , 1
TA N 0 li E n »^COBOON»C?_I^_J
WHITEST, PUREST
AND BEST
The Heart
of a Good
Cocktail
BY APPOINTMENT.
The Largest Gin Distillers
in the World
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
“There’s nothing against that, is there? If
Sweet Pea had won I’d Lave paid.”
“All right, all right,” Jasper said wearily.
Yet it was Tod who gave him the first
inkling about Cora. Jasper did not link up
the significance of it for many long days
afterwards.
Cora said upon one occasion with a vulgar
scorn: “I suppose this is what you call mak-
ing a home for me!”
Jasper replied curtly: “I’m doing my
best. We’ve got to save. You ought to
know that.”
He was so sick of their everlasting bicker-
ing that he felt a kind of mental suffo-
cation.
“I want new clothes. Look at me—l’m
ashamed to be seen outside. I was better
dressed at Guruwa.”
“It’s a pity,” Jasper was galled into say-
ing, “that you didn’t stay in Guruwa then.
But you’re talking rubbish. There’s a big
difference between being decently clothed
and spending money on frills and flounces
that you don’t need and I can’t afford. I
wish you’d try to understand.”
She was furious.
Afterwards Jasper was morbidly sorry
that he had spoken so sharply. He tried to
find excuse in the weather, which was try-
ing enough to jar the best of tempers. The
sun beat the whole day long upon the tiny
building, turning it into an oven. Flies
droned ceaselessly through the tepid air
within; the new-laid asphalt in the yard
boiled and stank; dust from the roadway
was settled everywhere.
That night Cora obstinately refused to
speak at all. When the shop closed she
went straight to her bed. Some hours later,
when Jasper crept in, candle in hand, he
found her staring, wide-eyed, at the oblong
of open window, where the curtains stirred
to a sluggish, sickly wind. On an impulse
he bent and kissed her damp forehead.
“Cora, I hate for us to quarrel like we
do. Look here, I’ve been thinking it over.
Maybe we can spare to get you a new
dress. I’ll go to the bank to-morrow.”
“You needn’t bother.”
“I’m sorry if I’ve seemed mean. It’s only
that I need all the capital I can get to—
to put into a scheme I’ve thought of. But
ten pounds either way won’t make much
difference, I expect.”
She thrust his hand aside.
“I tell you I don’t want it. Let me alone.
I hate this heat. I hate being alive”
Jasper shrugged and turned to his un-
dressing. There was no reasoning with her
at all nowadays, it seemed. He didn’t know
that he cared particularly, one way or the
other. The fine edge of his feeling was
blunted. Her nearness, as he lay despon-
dent in the hot darkness, brought him a
sensation of quiet disgust. Even her breath-
ing sounded sullen.
He went to the city early next day, re-
maining until almost dusk. He expected
the usual indifferent greeting from Cora, but
to his relief she was more friendly than he
had known her to be for months. Her
cheeks were slightly flushed, and her manner
was strange. She had her best dress on and
the new shoes and stockings which Rosanna
had sent her for her birthday. Her face
was heavily powdered, and an odor of cheap
scent came to Jasper as he kissed her.
For a second he had a queer impression
that she had done all this to please him.
He exclaimed with a new hope lighting his
tiredness: “Cora, you do look nice!”
She said with a half-smile: “I’m going out.
I got word that Alice isn’t well. I thought
I’d go over and sit with her for a bit.”
“That’s right. And the trip will do you
good,” Jasper said. But the disappoint-
ment stung. Still Alice was Cora’s cousin,
and it was right that Cora should go to her
when she was sick.
As he was locking up the shop Tod came
unexpectedly. Jasper took him into the
kitchen, where it was cooler.
Cora’s not home yet,” he explained. “She
went over to see Alice Pardy.”
“Cora did?” Tod said. He looked in-
credulous for a moment. “Alice Pardy?”
“Alice is sick. Cora went to sit with
her. Well, what’s all the good news, Tod?”
Tod seemed to shake off some thought.
He said, grinning: “There ain’t any. Listen.
Have you heard the one about the commer-
cial who had to sleep in the back bar?”
Jasper listened abstractedly to the vul-
garly funny conclusion. Tod’s stories were
mostly on the same lines. He related them
with immense relish, concluding with a burst
of hoarse laughter.
On this occasion he cut his mirth abruptly
short. He lit a fresh cigarette, staring at
Jasper with a sort of speculation.
“I say,” he asked presently, “who d’you
think travels for the Climax Chocolate
crowd? I struck him here in the shop this
morning, booking an order for Cora.”
“Damned if I know.”
“Bill Roughton.”
For a' moment Jasper failed to place the
name. Then he said shortly: “I thought
he was in West Australia.”
“So he was, but he’s back again.”
He dragged his cap over his eyes and
rose awkwardly.
“I’ll have to get.”
Jasper nodded sleepily.
“I say,” Tod said jerkily, as he turned
to go, “if I were you, I wouldn’t let that
bird hang about here. He’s no class.”
“There’s nothing worth stealing,” said
Jasper. He yawned and laughed. “Not a
damn thing.”
“I shouldn’t wonder if you were right,”
said Tod with unusual gentleness.
(To he continued.)
taken place that evening at the homestead,
when Crombie accepted the managership,
and with it, possibly, Miss Gordon. But
the ways of men are beyond understanding,
too. That night he was silent and distrait.
Realisation of wrongs done to him, of past
treacheries and of mis-spent years churned
within him. What to do now? Would lie
drop into this soft job, and give rein to his
love for a girl who would bring him affluence?
And deafen his ears to the call of the forest?
And shirk his chance of stepping forth a free
man to win success by his own unaided
efforts ?
Old dreams dreamt back in the drowsy
Gulf-land paraded before him, clamoring to
come true. So far into the night he. lay
pondering, yet knowing what his decision
would be. , ,
Next morning, by the time the Gordons got
up, Crombie had gone. All he left was a
letter of explanation. As he rode north into
the gidya forest lie overtook the lame bul-
lock hobbling back bravely towards Van-
dema, the beloved.
“Brother,” called Crombie, “we are free
again !” .
Colonial Fleets.
Beating up by Otway,
Rolling round the Prom.,
Swinging in from Gabo,
See the old ships come!
Trim colonial traders,
Half a score of rigs,
Barques and brave three-masters,
Barquentines and brigs.
Traders mean and humble,
Liners proud and sleek;
Hulls of native hardwood,
Hulls of oak or teak.
Clippers out of Plymouth,
Bringing cargoes full,
Racing back to Europe
With Australian wool.
Ancient tubs from Boston
Owned by Sven and Co,,
Taking coal with curses
Down to Callao.
Timid island schooners,
By Kanakas manned,
Beating, copra-laden,
On and off the land.
Tea ships from Colombo,
Jute tubs from Bombay,
Ships from Valparaiso,
Ships from Mandalay.
Rising o’er the sealine,
Sinking slowly down,
Canvas white and dainty,
Canvas patched and brown.
Come and go the vessels
On their seaward ways:
Go and come the cargoes
Of Colonial days.
* * *
As I watch the waters
Curving round Cape Howe,
Seldom o’er the picture
Glides a white sail now!
Smoke of haughty liners,
Smoke of humble tramps,
And at night the glitter
Of electric lamps
Fill me with a longing
Like remembered rhyme,
Sad with recollection
Of a younger time.
Ne’er a slender clipper
From the days of yore,
Waltzing like a lady
Down her ballroom floor;
Ne’er a famous flier,
House flag fine unfurled,
Waits the careful pilot—
Come across the world.
Nevermore a chanty
Echoes from the lips
Of the singing sailors
Bringing in their ships.
They’d Run No More to Rio
Seeking Sally Brown;
Or, on Shenandoah,
Roll the Cotton Down.
“Heave away, my bullies”—
With your songs ye be
Sunk indeed for ever
In the Lowland Sea.
Rolling up from Otway,
Beating round the Prom.,
To the Ports of Silence,
Messmates, ye have come.
Swinging round by Gabo,
Not again will ye
Make your tarry shorelines
Fast at Sydney Quay.
Ne’er again the Blackbird
Anchors in the ’Loo,
With her crazy captain
And her colored crew.
Waiting fairer weather,
Waiting for the tide,
In a quiet harbor,
Messmates now, ye bide.
As I watch the waters
Curving round Cape Howe,
Dreams of days departed
Haunt my fancy now.
Pictures, mem’ry-painted,
Hung in frames of gold,
Please my inward vision
As the years grow old.
To my ears an echo
Of some sailor’s song
By the winds of Gabo
Oft is borne along.
And across the sea-line,
Night-tide, now and then,
Drifts a ghostly vessel
Manned by ghosts of men.
VICTORIA.
E. J, BRADY.


*
■' <■
tMmmm
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—-wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE SHAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Ajeats—HOLMßS as CHIRCH, Brisbane,
N.Z. Office—AS-101 Featherston Street, Wellington.
f Aurnnn ivrri> u c
bUIXIiUIIU WWI, B. 4
. WALES
T'ctorian Office—" Chancery House/’ 485 Ilonrhe Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER. SMITH ft CO., LTD., Adelaide. !
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and eaoh
issue is eagerly read by men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays, Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F, L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 223
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
The Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South Australia,
and is Read by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation in
Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny of Net Sales
invited.
ALL THE NEWS AND ALL THE
ADVERTISEMENTS.
In 1927 average size of “THE ADVERTISER,”
26 pages of 8 columns (each 24J inch deep).
Space occupied by advertisements averaged
16J pages daily, or a Total of
988,712 INCHES IN THE YEAR.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-state agances of
Messrs, Gordon and Gotch, price lid.
Head Offices:
J. L. Bonython & Co.,
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. Li. WILSON, 22S Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone MA 3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
Is logically the first big daily to select in Queensland for any advertising
campaign. It gets results!
It is always bright and is progressive to a degree.
And its net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to
be greater than that of any other daily in Queensland. Its companion
journal is
THE SUNDAY MAIL
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine. These two journals
give a “cover” in Queensland that is second to none. For rates and
other particulars, please apply to:—
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE,
Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Restful, quiet and cot>l —open to the Summer Sea Breezes. Delightfully situated with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service.
Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Summer Tariff from 5 guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS—DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from Citv bv Ferry or Motor.
RESERVATIONS: T 3012 (4 lines).
QUEENSLAND’S BIG DAILY PAPER
THE BRISBANE COURIER
Easily the best and biggest Daily Paper
published in Queensland and carries more
ADVERTISING
than any other Queensland paper year in
and year out - - “Courier” advertising - •
INCREASES SALES
Rate Cards and specimen
copies from
Robt. D. Fisher,
Sydney Representative,
74 Pitt Street.
•Phone 85007.
Published by the
Brisbane Newspaper Co.,
“Courier” Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Also publishers of the
“Queenslander” and
“Sports Referee.”
What's the matter with you ?
You know there's something wrong
with you ? What is it ? Your liver
and stomach upset ? Then you re
More often than not the faulty
functioning of the digestive
organs, brought on by Constipa-
tion, is the cause of Biliousness.
Failure of the bowels to act
properly, results in poison acc-
umulating in the system which
upsets the stomach, giving rise to
biliousness, headaches, loss of
energy and appetite.
These are signals. Take action!
Take Beecham’s Pills.! They
assist nature and keep the system
regular and healthy.
u
V
H
&
AJ
i
'£„f > <4V U .f y.
‘ 'tl'V t-'fc ~ ■»
Lvxti'SiH
MARINE ENGINES
EXTRA durability and longer
service are as traditionally
Kermath features as its depend-
able and economical operation.
Install a Kermath Marine En-
gine. It will successfully over-
come the most trying conditions
with effortless ease-“A Kermath
always runs.”
All parts Standard and Inter-
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse coupling.
C 3 to 150 H. P.
1 to 6 cylinder s
4-cycle Engines
1
HALL BROS., Ltd.
Careening Cove
(Foot of Willoughby St.)
Milson’s Point
North Sidney, N.S. W
Kermath Manufacturing Co.
Detroit, Mich., U. S. A.
Cable Address— Kermath
24
ďf
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
“THE EXAMINER” is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Laun-eston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricul-
tural, Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” has been published in Launceston
for 86 years, and is still the family newspaper of
Northern Tasmania.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from;
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. V. W. Margetts,
122 Flinders Street,
Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
701 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
0
&
0°
e
6)
v'v°
%
&
f
s®
at'
9
&V
.■■■" A
.•* Vl* s*<
.•■ <c Vi?*
c*VHS^


m
i
#//# %w\
miimiunnfij
\W
/
X'
X-
itn
h
%
: :
««*3§
;Bg^-s>>
9S%S*
m
OritfT
M
i
Tljr
JL XI Hr
OLDEST HORSE
§?:s
£N THE WORLD! 1
ESTABLISHED 1742
s:.*s
J;.*s
Matured from early days in wood
and blended with subtlety and
genius.
Real Old Scotch whisky with a rare
distinctive flavour. In growing
demand throughout the world,
A man’s drink—any time, anywhere.
s**>
sj‘.s
ffl
«iOE
SE
5*.;4
SCREW-CAP BOTTLES
WHISKY
MO CORKSCREW REQUIRED
1
