

rl
u
&
m
9
v
*1?
■
m
S
V
A
1
w.
/■.
%
i
/
n
\\
v
r
%
u
DEWA
D EWA
DEWA®
DEWAR*
DEWAR'S
DEWAR"
DEWAR’SDEWi
ii
V
AR’S DEWA R'S DEWA R’S
AR ‘ S DEWA R ’ S I> EWA R' S
AR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
feWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
tIEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
SDE W A R’S DE WA R’S DEWA R’ S
WAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
DEWAR'S.DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWj
DEWAR’S
DEW#R’
DEWAR’
DEWA
DEWA
DEW
DEW
DEW
D
A
Air
s
I)
A
AR
I)
R
R
DEWAR'S'DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S
DEWAR'SDEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S
DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWA£j£DE WAR’SDftWAS’SDEWA R'S
AITS DEWAR’S
i'AR'S DEWAR’S
S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S
S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
€ WAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S
WAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
AR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
DEWAR’SDEWAR’SDEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
DEWAWdEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S
DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DE WAR’S DEWAR’BJ?S WM*S DjJl ? Al|tS &Si|AR'S DE WAR’S
DEWA R* S DEWA R' S 1) EW A lf/A R’ SDEWA K' S
DEWAR/S DEWAR’S DEVVAR’#i:#W|.lij|p:'Vf«#^€\ : VArS DEWAR'S DEWAR'S
DE WAR’S D£ WAR’S DE WAR* MWK%DEWAR*S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWA R'S
DEWA R'S DEWA R’ S DEWA BBpiwA R ’ S dCwAR” S DEWA R’ S DEWA R’S DEW AR 'S
DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DE WAIfpDEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
DEWAR’SDEWAR'S DEWARS DEWAR’S DEWAR’SDE WAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S
DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S
DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S
DEV
DEW
DEW
DEW
DEW
DE.. ........... __
DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S
I) EW A R’S DE WAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DE WAR‘S DEWAR’S DE WAR*S
EWAR'S DEWAR'S
DEWA R’S DEWA R’S
DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
DEWAR’S IDE WAR
DEWAR* SpE-WA
DEWAR’SKWARW™ ................. —.............—......... „
DEWAR'S PE WAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S
DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
Airs
s
s
A
W
AR’S
E
S D
S
E
W
VH
D
AR’S
D
W
E
D
A
R’S
EW
S
R
D
A
AR’S
SD
K
W
D
S
R
W
VA
A
D
AR’S
A
SD
A
A
A
A
S
’S
A
The Bulletin
oOf Onryy^yL^ui’uLs<\a£ S^bxjyfcCatCorua
Vol. 50.-No. 2577.
Wednesday, July 3, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the Genera] Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE 1929 LIBRARY CATALOGUE is
>w ready, and will be forwarded post
yith full terms and particulars, on
ition to
►IOCIv’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
>6 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
)iiey! Pleasure! Power! and Fame!”
h desire our hearts inflame,
from want and squalid things,
Is may rise to vie with kings;
to win to fame and wealth
li must treasure perfect, health.
1 bronchial ills such health assure—
lember Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt,
Learn
Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bo, listin'.
My Name
My Address
S.B.
ILYSAGHT
o
a
Fl
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
1 ..'My
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HOLBROOK
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
w
\
r
e
leurway to
Efita
The importance of vitamines is no new discovery ; nor
is the use of Yeast. What is new is the method of
combining vitamiue-active yeast with other constitu-
ents prescribed by leading medical authorities the
world over, in the form 0 f Cream of Yeast. This is
the best way to Better Health, readily available
through chemists and storekeeper.* everywhere. Ovain
of 'east is a safe, reliable way Of relieving nerve
paii s, ■ headaches, sleeplessness, upset -•oi.iuch
and skin troubles. It must give benefit; if cannot
hur Try it yourself and see the good it does you—
-24 .ablets cost 1/11, 48 for 3/0, or 123 for 5/9.
'Truly “ Cream of yeosfjfe Life!’'
Cream of Yeast for Ra
Amalgamated Laboratories , Kembla Building,
and a
e Results
■elms Chemists.
HAIR
V
need
N°
HIRES
im) -
ŗ
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
&CLlltms CMCXICAN]
Walnut SioJUn.
’-REMOVES THE GREY" 4 '
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (i/S), 6d. being postage.
ř
a
:: :
\
After A Tiring Day
With its contacts and exposure to dust
aftdwind that dry your hair and skin,
to say nothing of the risk of infection
caused by the Carelessness of others,
Cbticura Soap, with the healing min-
istrations of Cuticura Ointment, comes
as a welcome boon to refresh you
physically and mentally. Add the fra-
grant touch of Cuticura Talcum and
the world takes on new joy.
Soap Is., Ointment Is. and 2s.
a , ,Talcum Is. 3d. Sample each free.
Address: R.Towns & Co., Sydney N.S.W.”
PWT' Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d. I
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER®
who will quote you price for the original.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germicide
and Antiseptic known, being destructive to all forms
of bacterial life. They keep the mouth in a sweet,
healthy condition.
Suited for Old and Young.
For the cure of Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bron-
chitis, Influenza.
Unlike cough medicines, HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES do not interfere with the digestion; on the
contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as their Anti-
septic Properties prevent abnormal fermentation of
the food, and thus they prove helpful to sufferers
from Indigestion and Dyspepsia if taken after food.
Sold Everywhere in Tins, Price 1/6.
m
A. The Larynx
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea
Windpipe,
C. The
Tubes of
Lung.
D. The Lobe
tha Lu
''onchial
ted
one
The Red Page
The Armchair
Here from this cosy armchair by the fire
Each thing seems rare, and warm, and
beautiful!
I can believe the crowded world all good;
Can think of happy people and the flowers,
Slender and sweet, from rich old garden-beds;
Of pictures and the smell of fresh-brewed tea
Swimming in hollowed Wedgwood, and the
sound
Of clinking spoons in saucers; and the drip
Of glowing ashes falling silverly.
Here God is very real, benignant, good,
A placid Presence hovering around
The teacups with a large contented smile!
But I —but I am sick to death of washed
Hypocrisies! This is not all, I know!
This is not all —the shameful armchair lies!
I know that there are things unspeakable-
Dark, stinking streets with slimy gutters
where.
The children feed on filth, pale-eyed and
wan;
And tottering houses where the drunken man,
Lustful and loud, kicks at his cowering wife *,
And there arc girls with weary feet who
climb
Innumerable stairs —pale girls who bend
Above long tables in a whir of .vliooß,
And pack unending tins day after day,
Day after day, where nothing ever eoines;
And crowded wards of hospitals marked out
In beds—white beds with faces o’er the
sheets
Ravaged and torn beneath the of pain*
Frightful and hungry and malevolent!
And yet this curshd chair all softly sprung
Would have me think that it is otherwise!
( Myra Morris, in “ White Magic,” just pub-
lished by Vidler.)
The Old Bench
Lately the spirit of progress has taken
a hand in the office fittings of The Bulle-
tin. The old den where Tom McMahon
for 40-odd years paid out cheques (mostly
cashed in the pub almost next door) to
eager poets and other contributors has
gone. The counter has been thrust forward
to make more office-room, and the bench
upon which generations of Australian
writers, all of the best of them, have sat
at one time or another has moved from its
old place.
It was past this bench that a gawky youth
stole nervously to fling over the counter
his rolled manuscript before he turned to
flee, as rapidly as he could, lest someone
in authority should demand of him his
nefarious business. The MS. was “The
Faces in the Street.” “I used to run for
my life directly I had dropped my copy,”
Lawson would say, chuckling; “and I
remember one morning feeling relieved be-
cause I met the charwoman on the door-
step, and could hand my parcel to her,
without facing the terrors of the interior.”
Archibald sent for Lawson, but it was some
time before he could be lured into the
Presence.
The bench for decades was the Bohemian
trysting-place of Sydney. Here the Bohe-
mian, would wait for a crony, or a cheque,
or both—the last an amiable conjunction of
circumstances that usually meant discussion
of the literary and political matters of the
day, not to mention liquid refreshment.
Even when no money was expected the
bench had its use—upon it the impecunious
could linger with an assurance that, sooner
or later, someone would arrive with the
necessary, and an invitation. Women, too,
might wait here for someone to arrive who
could supply information about the truant
husband.
It was on this bench that Harold Gray
(“The Pilgrim”) sat weeping well-simulated
tears into his handkerchief as he told of
the death of Victor Daley, and moaned
about the need of money for the funeral.
The trick worked well; a cheque was forth-
coming, and Daley was mourned, too, until,
missing the Pilgrim and forgetting who it
was that was supposed to be dead, he
arrived in person and ctimmenced to be-
wail the death of Gray.
How transient is human greatness! Great
men of their day who sat on that bench
are long forgotten. Who can remember
Von Kotze now, or P. J. Holdsworth? Yet
it was Holdsworth who, discussing the
death of Kendall, remarked to Daley: “Ah,
well, Victor, there are only two of us now!”
Before my time, all that. My own first
memory of the bench was of sitting there,
a youth of eighteen, waiting whilst account-
ant Tom McMahon (may he long enjoy
the retirement into which he, too, has
gone!) took a. slip of my handwriting away
to verify whether the published story had
really been written by me, and left me
waiting nervously, in spite of the fact that
for two years I had been paid for smaller
things. And then the famous Bulletin
cheque! That absurd bit of paper was
obviously only a silly practical joke ! It j
was three days before I took it to the |
bank, and it was with something like |
amazement that I received the money
promptly .from the teller.
Albert Dorrington talked on this bench i
of story plots; the author of “The Silver
Waterfall” talked of the opportunities of
America, and subsequently found them;
Steve O’Brien (“Jack Shay”—now dead
several years) bubbled with the politics
which were his life interest; Hen-
slow talked about the magazine he was
running, or the one that had just died, or
one he had in prospect; Jim Ryan
(“Narranghi Boori”—he is now in America)
read out the masterpieces over which he
expended one day in writing and three
days in reading to his friends before starting
to re-write in accordance with suggestions
received; poor, inarticulate P. T. Freeman,
who wrote conscientiously but with difficulty
in a large schoolboy hand, but in spite of
his painfully patched clothes could always
say “It’s my turn to shout” (otherwise he
was merely a listener, the only really good
listener of the crowd); David McKee
Wright, keenly explaining how Ireland was
the originating centre of all the world’s cul-
Dture, or listening to the tale of woe of
someone who knew who was the easiest
victim in Sydney; Henry Lawson, with his
grievances and his chuckle; “Milky White”
Emerson; Bernard Ingleby, with his
rhetorical outbursts always accompanied by
whirling arms; Pat O’Sullivan (who has
made a fortune in America with “Felix the
Cat”), giving a tally of the sporting cari-
catures he had sold to hairdressers’ saloons
—this is only a casual roll-call of those to
whom the old bench was a meeting-place
in my own days.
HAROLD MERCER.
Writers’ Readings
As a special pleader, trying for the mere
sake of argument to turn the tables upon
one whom he chooses to regard as an
opponent, Cecil Mann (R.P. 12/6/’29) is
not to be taken seriously. He says that
to prefer a writer’s reading of his own
work to the reading of the same work by
another “is as logical as to prefer listening
to a song-composer sing his own songs,” and
he quotes Ruskin to the effect that, in sing-
ing, the notes must be true. I’d prefer
not to bring into the discussion any refer-
ence to an art of which I know nothing,
but I suppose Ruskin means that there are
two ways of singing—a right way and a
wrong way. Then Mr. Mann’s analogy is
false. No two actors speak a great speech
of Shakspeare’s in quite the same way; yet
perhaps none of them may be wrong. One
may reasonably like to hear them all—but
I’d rather hear Shakspeare.
“How poetry comes to the poet has no-
thing whatever to do with how it comes
to the reader,” says Mr. Mann. I should
think it had a good deal to do with it.
He says also that I know “well enough that
poetry does not come in this free fashion
at all.” That is to say he misinterprets
my words and accuses me of insincerity. I
said nothing of a “free fashion.” A poet
has a great deal of trouble in composition,
just because he is trying to do full justice
to the harmonies of his poem as they pre-
sent themselves to him. He may not know
or care how we prefer to render his verse,
but he must have a very clear notion—after
all his labor—of the music as it was ideally
present in his mind, and his own reading
of the verse will necessarily be illuminating
for a humble student of his art.
Shoo!
J. LE GAY BRERETON.
Wisely says Cecil Maiyj: “What Aus-
tralia needs at the moment is literary work,
not literary talk.” There is no room for
“literary talk” at any moment. The author,
Australian or otherwise, has only one job,
and it is pretty strenuous.
The novelist lives in his work. Indeed,
he exists only in his story or play. For
the time being he is merely a pen attached
to a brain. He drives himself—or is driven
by an insistent urge, so that the author
wonders how on earth he has had the luck
and felicity to discover such a treasure.
Next morning, however, he begins to wonder
whether his miraculously found plot is of
use at all. Yet from those lovely ruins he
is usually able to reconstruct his heavenly
dream. Then, of course, his inspiration
kisses him good-bye; and it may be weeks
or months before he recaptures his dream.
The point I am trying to make is that
all these exaltations and poignant despairs
owe nothing to any advice or teaching. No
help can be given from outside. There
are no courses at the university for poetry
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“Truth in Advertising"—expressing the Policy which has built
Anthony Horderns'.
Anthony Horderns'
Great “Pyrex” Display.
Bake and Serve in the Same Dish!
Delicious Pies, Stews, Casseroles, Cakes, Tarts—in short, everything you cook
in an oven can be made in Pyrex Transparent Ovenware, and served direct
from the oven in the same dish! The foods bake better—the crusts brown
more beautifully—the inside retains its richness, is more tender when Pyrex
is used.
Send for our Complete Catalogue of Pyrex Ware. Pont Free.
Cake Dish, 4-
Layer Cake Dish, round. Ideal for baking
sponge or other Hat cakes. They are sure to
rise! 9-jin. diameter. Price 4/-
Custard Cups, 1/4
Custard Cups, French Shape a delightful way
of serving custard that gives an individual touch
to your table. Price, each ...» 1/4
Cake Pan, 8/6
Cake or Bread Pan. Beautiful Brown Crusts and
perfect rising if you use a “Pyrex” pan for your
baking; 9£in. long, Price, each 8/6
Stewpot, 9/6
Stewpot. A good Family Stewpot that retains
all the delicious rich flavorings that go to make
up every stew to the full. If pint, Price,
each 9/6
OUR “D.P.S ”
Our Deposit-
Purchase System
involves no ext r a
cost whatever. It
allows you to secure
the goods you wish
to purchase by pay-
ing a deposit when
you order them, and
on the completion of
the payments the
goods are forwarded
to you in the usual
way.
Tart Dish, 5/6
Hexagonal Tart Dish, adds a touch
of novelty to your tarts, and bakes
them so that each one is a master-
piece in itself. Diameter, 9£in.
Price, each 5/6
Casserole, 8/6
Casserole. A round, shallow Casse-
role for all small-quantity cooking.
Makes a useful Entree Dish with
cover. 1 \ pint, Price, each . . 8/6
2 pint, Price, each 9/6
Entree Dish, 10/6
Entree Dish, with a reversible cover which can
also be used as a second baking dish. Price, 10/6
Ramekins, lOd.
Ramekins, or Individual Bakers handy for
small cakes or tarts. Price, each lOd.
Utility Dish, 5/6
Utility Dish, for Roasting or Baking flat cakes,
etc. An excellent general-purposes utensil.
10£in. long. Price 5/6
l2*fin. long, Price 9/»
Bakers, 1/4
Individual Bakers of various useful sizes, for
mixing or baking puddings. Size, 60z., Price,
each • 1/4
Boz., Price, 1/8; 120 z., Price, 2/3 each.
“Pyrex” is a thick, hard-wearing, oven-proof material of clear glasslike
appearance. Silver or Aluminium cases can be purchased from Anthony
Horderns* to fit almost any size of dish. Write for full details to the Crockery
Dept., third floor.
Anthony Horderns
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night


4^4
NASH LEADS THE WORLD IN
MOTOR CAR VALUE
NASH
y
Va
m
6
/. 1
&
\
ft
vw
t-
A
s*
«K
&
r
or
*
istinguished
in <tt»3f Company
THROUGH many years of sustained vol-
ume production, occasioned by popular
demand, the Nash has evolved to a point of
such perfection and refinement that it ranks
as a favorite among the
world’s choicest cars.
This is particularly true
of the Nash “400” mod-
els— cars of such rare
beauty and ease of op-
THE MCW
NAS HI
'4oo*
eration that their great success in North
America is fast being repeated in this country.
Yet this perfection has been achieved with-
out the customary penalty of higher price.
A “400” is a joy to
possess as much for
its modest cost as for
the style which distin-
guishes it as a quality
car in any company.
(18-9777)
TOURERS.
Standard Six from . . . .
Special Six from
Advanced Six from..
SEDANS.
•• £375 £4so* (2 door) £47o* (4 door)
.. £4BO £565* (2 door) £sBo* (4 door)
.. £63o* £62o* (2 door) £635* (4 door)
*lmported Body.
Distributors for New South Wales:
WILLSFORD, LTD.,
132-134 Phillip Street,
SYDNEY.
Phones: 8W2291 (5 lines).
Distributors for Victoria and Tasmania
RICKARDS BROS. PTY., LTD.,
567-573 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
’Phone: F 3114.
Distributors for Queensland and Northern Rivers
PEELS, LTD.,
407-431 Stanley Street,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
'Phone: J 1561.
Distributors for South Australia and Broken Hill
AUTOCARS, LTD.,
58-72 Flinders Street,
ADELAIDE.
'Phone: Central 5500.
Distributors for West Australia:
ERIC MADDREN MOTORS, LTD.,
996 Hay Street,
PERTH.
’Phones: 85610, 87634.
TASMANIAN DEALERS:
THE SERVICE CO. OF TASMANIA, 56 Paterson Street, Launceston.
E. MEERMANN, 135 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
BENNETT & GILBERT, Best Street, Devonport.


For Any Travel
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
ŕ
The accredited Agents of all Steam
Ship Lines. Their expert guidance and
special facilities cost you nothing.
TO EUROPE 1930
Apply now for accommodation, as'
berthing plans for all steamers are open.
WINTER TOURS
To Queensland, Bali, Java, Siam,
Japan, Hawaii, Malaya, Sumatra, Indo-
China (Saigon, Pnom-Penh, Angkor).
STEAMER EXCURSIONS
Cairns, South Sea Islands, Fiji, Tahiti,
Honolulu, Ceylon, Java, Japan and
Manila, etc.
COOKS’ TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
Are the safest and most convenient
means of carrying funds.
Sailing Lists , Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street,
ADELAIDE:
49 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
or authorship. The writer is a solitary
unit, in touch only with impalpable things.
The divine idea must spring from the poet
himself, from his subconscious being. The
writer’s urge belongs only to him. He
looks only within. He cannot be helped
by any other being. He is the loneliest
person on earth. He gathers his provender
from the outside world, but the author must
get inside himself, and produce from him-
self like a spider, turning a beaded cobweb
into a tiny constellation.
Any genuine writer not only needs no
advice; he rightly resents it. Any literary
talk, private or public, is an impertinence.
Poets are never gregarious. It should, then,
be obvious that any sensible being should
avoid any meetings that would distract the
woulcl-be author’s dream.
At intervals in Sydney a Fellowship of
Writers shyly emerges into the public glare.
Its object and its function is to band
together the scattered authors of Sydney,
and generally to boost the author’s craft
in the ears of the less intelligent members
of the community. At each meeting some
genuine specimens of the genus author are
on view, ready to let the audience of . flap-
pers into the secrets of the craft. Specimens
of unpublished work are read aloud, though
authors are not usually good elocutionists,
and the reading of poems to a mixed audi-
ence is no longer regarded as exciting. Judg-
ing by my one furtive look in on the
Fellowship in full blast, the flapper vote
would submerge the meeting. And I was
awed by the thought that this crowded
audience had been gathered together under
semi-vice-regal patronage.
Amid the murmur of congratulations on
having been permitted to gaze upon the
features of the exhibits on view, my
thoughts winged back to the author, the
real author, usually a quaint and homely
person who is waiting to finish his
chapter or end his sestette. He is shy and
retiring; he would faint if he were asked
to carry a banner, and the last thing he
wants is to push himself into prominence.
All he wants is to get back to his garret
and in happy solitude turn determinedly to
his next chapter.
A. H. A.
The Kelly Komplex
The G'"l Who Helped Ned Kelly, by C.
E. Tjiviol*, published by United Press—an
offshoot of Melbourne Herald— is a well-
told tale that had a successful run as a
serial in Table Talk. In it are mingled
most of the facts about the Kellys and some
of the fiction that has attached to their
career. That it is often blind to their
faults and more than a little kind to their
virtues is only one more illustration of the
hero worship which has enhaloed every
predatory ruffian from Hereward the Wake
and Robin Hood to Claude Duval and Dick
Turpin. But the author has liberal opinions.
If the Kellys and their friends are perse-
cuted heroes, the remaining figures, historical
and otherwise, are not entirely vile. Even
the police have saving graces, and a fictitious,
baronet who appears late on the scene is
actually good— an infraction of the canons
relating to the baronets of melodrama cal-
culated to make the late Dan Barry, also
a Victorian author, turn in his grave. The
sub-hero of the story—Ned, of course, is the
principal lead—is one Jack Briant, a youth
of high degree who, for no apparent pur-
pose, is humping his bluey in the Kelly
country. There he works as a selection
hand, befriends the Kellys, defies the police,
and falls in love with the beauteous heroine,
also a warm admirer of the Gang. In
company with the lady he has many excit-
ing adventures by flood and field until,
with the approval of his uncle, the good
baronet before mentioned, he is about to
take her to church as the story closes at
historic Glenrowan. This leit motif is
interwoven with the familiar story of the
last, of the Australian bushrangers, a story
with all its picturesque, if sometimes rather
sordid and homicidal, details duly set out in
their proper order. The illustrations by
R. Wenban are excellent.
In quite a different category is The Inner
History of the Kelly Gang, by J. J. Ken-
neally (Reviews Pty., Melb.). This is
practically an epitome of those paper-bound
volumes purporting to chronicle the history
of the bushranger heroes which were the
delight of the youth of Australia in the
years from 1878 to 1880. The series began
almost as soon as the gang took to the
bush, and the writer of this review was
just beginning the fourth volume, dealing
with Glenrowan and the execution of Ned,
when parental authority armed with a
doubled stirrup leather, intervened. Like
its predecessors, the book is intensely biased
in tone. The Kellys are driven to horse
stealing, cattle duffing, murder and robbery
m just protest against intolerable perse-
cution by the police. The latter are all
knaves or fools, and most of them cowards
into the bargain. Aaron Sherritt, suspected
as a spy and murdered unarmed and in
cold blood before his young wife, is, accord-
ing to this book, “executed.” The police
ambushed and shot down in the Wombat
Ranges brought their fate on themselves by
refusing to surrender, with much of the same
sort. An adventure into sheer sensational-
ism, the book seems to have no particular
reason for existence, though the author’s
constant reference to the terror inspired in
the outlaws by the black trackers brought
from Queensland is of interest.
Books Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a com-
mittee nominated by the Associated Book-
sellers of Australia and Maoriland. It is
printed as a guide to new books of merit.
General lAteraturc. —Raiders of the Deep,
by Lowell Thomas; Falmouth for Orders,
by A. J. Villiers; Twenty-five Years with
Earl Haig, by Sergeant T. Secret!; The
Savage Solomons, by S. G. C. Knibbs; Off
the Deep End, by Christopher Morley; lne
Magic Island, by W. B. Seabrook; From the
Ivory Coast to the iCameroous, by A. J-
Reynolds.
Novels of Literary Merit. —The Portrait
iu a Mirror, by Chas. Morgan; Farthing
Hall, by Hugh Walpole and J. B. Priestley;
Penelope’s Man, by John Erskine; Tlie Line
of Love, by J. B. Cabell; Dodsworth, by Sin-
clair Lewis; All Quiet on the Western Front,
by E. M. Remarque.
Novels for Popular Reading. —Storm
House, by Kathleen Norris; Pastell, by
Georgette Heyer; Seven Dials Mystery, by
Agatha Christie; The Dark Mile, by D. K.
Broster; The King Who Was a King, by
H. G. Wells; Six Mrs. Greenes, by Lorna
Rea: Enter Sir John, by Clemence Dane and
Helen Simpson; One of Those Ways, by
Mrs. Belloc Lowndes; Indiana Jane, by Cecil
Roberts ; Maiden Stakes, by Dornford Yates ;
Paying Guests, by E. F. Benson.
A Satchel of Books
Car and Country, by John Prisleau
(Dent). With the aid of illustrations and
51 maps the author takes you on a motoring
inspection of country England. Admirable
for the motoring enthusiast who has designs
on English roadside poultry.
Foreign Diplomacy in China, by Philip
Joseph (Allen and Unwin). In a searching
study of political and economic relations with
China from the Sino-Japanese War to the
Boxer Rebellion, Dr. Joseph, among numer-
ous findings, reveals from the most recent
documentary material the actions of the
Powers most closely concerned in doing in-
justice to the Chinese in that period. A book
that holds the springs of existing strife and
rumors of strife in China.
Point and Counterpoint, by Aldous Huxley
(Chatto and Windus; Robertson and Mul-
lens). The book’s 600 pages are too
many, and too many of the cast are mere
megaphones for the Huxleian philosophic
realism, but most of the work is immensely
interesting, witty and uncompromising. A
reading tends to leave the feeling of having
had a dozen rounds with Jove at the Olympic
stadium.
Guarded Heights, by Elizabeth Carfrae
I .Mills and Boon). An acute study of a form
of religious mania. The parson whom worldly
little Carol Stirling marries in a moment
of passion is one of those difficult souls who
live ’‘self-exiled front gross delights.” A
domestic smash inevitably follows. The char-
acterisation is sound, but the story subsides
disappointingly into crude melodrama to-
wards the end.
White Witches, by M. Forrest (Hutchinson),
provides another proof that Australian novel-
ists —and particularly Australian women-
novelists —are beginning definitely to impress
overseas publishers. The plot is slight, but
the book has observation and feminine charm.
Synfe Jackson, a mystic, comes under the
influence of the “White Witches,” a group
of gums near her Queensland home. The
trees symbolise her mysterious and romantic
temperament. She lias a tragic love affair
with a Sydney waster, but in the end goes
back to her beloved trees and the Irish boy
who is her true mate. The story is wild with
passionate feeling, and some of the descrip-
tive passages—particularly those which deal
with Sydney—are admirable. Mrs. Forrest
has the advantage, as a prolific poetess, of
being able to head her chapters with verses
of her own.
Fixation of Wages in Australia, by George
Anderson (Macmillan and Melbourne Uni-
versity Press). The author, barrister and
solicitor of the Victorian Supreme Court
and formerly a scholar of distinction of Mel-
bourne University, has dedicated his compre-
hensive work to the memory of the late
.Justice Higgins, who had deplored the non-
existence of a treatise containing essential
information as to the performances and
methods of the Commonwealth Court and
the State industrial tribunals. This work,
which supplies just such a treatise, and is
the first of its kind in Australia, deals in
the first part with the constitution and powers
of these tribunals and in the second part
with wage fixation. Expertly written, care-
fully indexed, the book is a handy reference
volume, and a worthy memorial to the Judge
who referred to its topic as “the greatest dis-
tinctive Australian effort.”
The Cradle of the Deep, by Joan Lowell
(Simon and Schuster; Robertson and Mul-
lens). Joan's father was born in a clipper
ship off Geelong, and lie was abandoned by
his mother in a Victorian convent. He mar-
ried the daughter of Dr. Butler Lowell, of
San Francisco, and, as she hated the sea,
he took his daughter with him to and fro
across the Pacific from the age of 11 months.
According to her own story, she was un-
conscious of her sex, and had never seen
her face in a mirror till her adolescence. She
chewed, spat, pulled on a rope and swore
like any able seaman. Some of her experi-
ences were terrific. She scamps nothing. Her
father was a Bully Hayes, who knocked his
seamen down or flogged her indiscriminately
when discipline demanded it. The ship was
finally burned between Wilson’s Promon-
tory and Melbourne, and she and her fathor
swam to a lightship. Whether Joan draws
the long bow here and there present critic
is too much of a gentleman to hazard a con-
jecture ; but it has all the air of authenticity
—the first frank statement of the sea’s out-
rageousness to come from a woman.
Where It All Comes True, by Clara E.
Laughlin (Methuen). A travel book to take
children on a conversational tour of Italy
and Switzerland, with spurs to keep on tra-
velling in such titbits of information as the
fact that at Lucerne the strawberries are
literally as big as eggs, four or five bites to
each berry, and half a dozen of them a meal
for even a hungry youngster.
Answers to Correspondents.
r
,T.A.H.: That syringe has been worn out.
Pity, because the yam is very well constructed.
....Apple Blossom: Will bear no fruit... .P.M.N,:
It gets to nothing, and its progress isn’t very
interesting, either.... Tiptree ; Moves too ponderously.
A. 8.5.: You’re misinformed. The first meetings of
the Federal Convention were held in Adelaide, and
C. C. Kingston presided, except in committee, when
R. C. Baker was chairman. Holder was a very active
member of the Convention, but he wasn’t in the
chair. And he wasn’t a lawyer, either; he was a
country (S.A.) journalist... .Roamer: No demand
for humor of the Tit-Bits brand. .. .B.IL: Your
inebriated clown gives us a tired feeling.... J.F.N.:
Don’t fancy the Longfellowish metre... .LI.L.G.:
Would advise a course of wing exercises for your
muse.... W. J.L.C.: Study us a bit more and try
again... .E.H.M.: They don’t exhilarate... .8.R.:
Bovine lyric seems to have the rickets.. . .T.S.: That’s
not a sonnet —it’s a sandstorm... .M.L.A.: Marred
by meaningless phrases like “a virgin day from
troubles shorn”... .L.E.S.: Beaten at the first
encounter Blackbird: Advice to verse-writers who
want to know what to do when their muse goes
astray is—let her... .R.L.W.: Nothing in that lot.
. ...P.Y.: Now we know why wastepaper-baskets
leave home... .N.C.: A thought too fragile.... Old
Boy: Christmas-card verse... . T.M.G.: Lowered, with
weight attached. .. .C.H.E.: Rather weak lot of
“Links” 0.R.W.: Like our fare a little more
solid than that.... Maoriland: Yours too faint, also.
T.L.C.; Fails to arrest R.M.: Rhymes rocky;
verse vacant... .E.E.M.: A bit stiff, but above the
average... .M.A.R.: Doesn’t suit.. ..M.D.: “The
Ship” founders, with all feet... .M.F.: Thin as
watered milk. .. .Fat Bertha: You overlook that they
were put forward as “colonial”.... Malcha: Singers
who start by doubting whether they have the ability
to sing usually end by proving they are without it.
.. . . J.1.E.: That metre takes playing... .W.L.: “An
attempt at a sonnet.” As you say—an attempt....
C.G.: Returned, “via enclosed envelope”.... Brolga:
For even death seems easier
When the camp-fire’s burning bright.
And even life seems breezier when that thought is
put to flight. .. .Westwood: We return the question,
“Why?” W.M.: Failed to survive a second read-
ing Euckatoo: “The Song of the Forward” kicked
0ut.... Clover: Y r ou have something to say, but you
don’t quite say it P.J.1.: Would advise a little
expenditure in the way of rose-colored specs....
G.S.: Into the basket. . . .Graveyard: The ghost refuses
to walk to that tune.... Rabbi Rah: Belongs to the
class of the merely frail. .. -T.R.: Wears the marks
of immaturity, but has thought... .R.J.: No
“Change” to-day... .Ninette: “Waiting” gets mono-
tonous. ... W.D.: They wander loosely without direc-
tion L.M.: Can’t agree with you that “girls is
like cats.” Cats is sometimes clever. ... T.W.N.:
They don't come- up to promise. ... J.D.C.1.: Beaten,
but it was a fair tight. .. .L.P.W.: Sorry ; they fail.
. ...H.D.: “What would you do?” Refuse it....
L.C.: No room. . . .P.G.H.F.: There’s a flicker of
originality in the ghost of the dead Chinaman. . . .
W.P. : Doesn’t quite convince... .0.E.W.: Little story
value. .. .J. 11.: Not badly written, but idea weak
and somewhat strained... .K.F.: Even fiction lias to
be plausible... .Pejar: Dramatic situation, but sug-
gestion repulsive..A.J.H.: Story of the mysterious
East has gone west.... J.H.S.: Your amusing rascals
do not make a story... .M.M.C.: Avery juvenhe
affair.... J.L.: The only use we can make of it is
ab-use... .1.0.: Too fragmentary... .Nancy L.: No
dug-out for your caveman and cavcwoman... .1.T.:
Can’t sound the loud timbrel for “Miriam”....
T..f.H.: Your “South Wind” blew itself out.. . .Roma:
It isn’t a gusher... .P.J.T.: The topics are dated. ...
J.M.: None of ’em suit. . . .Victor; Good as to morals,
anyway... ,8.A.H.: A muse that flops about like that
ought to have corsets... .P.E.: Given a tonic and
returned. . . .M.W.T.: Is that an aftermath of the
earthquake, or what started it?... .P.S.L.: Interest-
ing, but handled crudely... .J.N.: Illustrates the
slight distinction between twiddling and twaddling.
. ...A.S.; What a nightmare you must have had!
Eltrym: It curdles the blood: —
He plunged the knife into the flesh,
But still no cry of pain.
He drew it out with smart flourish
And plunged it in again.
He slashed and hacked the knife around
And with a smile of glee
He turned to me
“Excuse me, sir, did yoji say half a pound?”
For he was a butcher, you see!
. ...V.K.T.: Has quality, but needs concentration.
. ...8.R.; You might place it, but not here....
Murat: The Canadian Senate is a nominee chamber,
like the N.S.W. Leg. Council; the House of Commons
is elected by adult suffrage for five years. State of
parties: Liberals,- 132; Conservatives, 90; Progres-
sives (allied with Libs.), 17 ; Labor, 4 ; Independent,
4. .. .Anti-Imp.: But according to Churchill (“The
World Crisis: The Aftermath”), the offer of Aus-
tralian and Maoriland troops in 1922 was made
known to Mustapha Kemal and had the most salutary
effect. Extract: “There could be no greater deterrent
upon violent Turkish action than the possibility of
again facing the formidable volunteers of the Antip-
odes. This knowledge, w'hich we took good care
to convey, was a definite factor in the eventual
avoidance of war.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
S.H.: You'll need to burn a lot more midnight
oil. .. . H.C.P.: Study, and strive for a more
individual style... .N.J.: Polar explorers frozen out.
. ...R.C.: You might as well have sent a blank
sheet. . . .F.T.: No wonder the actor forgot his lines ;
the artist forgot hi5....L.D.: Thanks for telling u-
what the chorus lady said to the stage-door johnnie;
we'll keep the secret. .. .G.A.P.: “Plurry” doesn’t
make an abo. joke. . . .H.W.: You have everything to
learn about perspective... .C.D.: Stale smoking-
compartment gags. .. .L.R.T.: Signs of improvement.
. ...E.T.: If that’s Jack he’s altered a lot since
we saw him a month ago... .J.H.: The week’s worst.
. ...H.M.0.: Your style is new if not striking....
R.R.: Would rather reproduce the art-school certi-
ficate. .. .G.H.F.H.: Jazz orchestra clubbed into
silence. .. . J.A.8.: That air-liner crashed... .F.C.H.:
Try some other pastime.


9
a-.
r
ŕ


The Bulletin
Vol. 50. —No. 2577.
July 3, 1939.
HONOR WHERE HONOR IS DUE.
“Sir Ronald Ross, whose discovery of the mosquito as the carrier of malaria has made the tropics habitable for white men, is ending his days in poverty in England.”
ONE MAGNATE TO ANOTHER: “Ah, friend, if it were not for the self-sacrificing labors of noble fellows such as he there would be fewer people in the world to
buy our goods. Could not we show our gratitude by naming an insect powder or something after him?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 1
214 George Street, Sydney; Box 252188.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westrai.ia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4 s -<* months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. Gd.; 3 months, Ss.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 4oz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional 4°z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., 14d %
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4 0Z - or V art thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PACE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 6
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. . . 5
A FRONT-PAGE CARTOON BY LEASON .. 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
Growth of Crime 8
LAW AND THE LAWLESS 8
CONQUEROR OF THE TROPICS, by “Si Arm” 8
THE BRUCE-PAGES RETRENCH .. ..8
Who Killed Keith Anderson ? • 8
SHOULD ARBITRATION GO ALTOGETHER?—
By Peter Airey, ex-Treasurer of Queensland 9
JURIES IN CIVIL CASES—
By Hon. D. Levy, Speaker of N.S.W.
Assembly . . .. . . . . 9
SOUTH AFRICAN SHEEP—
By an ex-Australian sheepman in Africa . . 9
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 9
POLITICS (with caricatures) .. . . . . 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) 11, 12
PERSONAL (with three drawings) .. . . 14
POVERTY POINT 15
“MARY’S LITTLE LAMB,” a Cartoon by Scorfield 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) . . 17
GIANNINI (in Sydney) 17
HARRY LAUDER (in Melbourne) . . . . 17
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18. 20
Mark Foy’s .. .. 18
ROBERT HARPER 18
FAIRYMEAD SUGAR 18
ELDER’S TRUSTEES 18, 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 23, 25
Free Service Department .. 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 31
HOW TO TEST THE SOIL 28
PASTURE MANAGEMENT & TOP DRESSING 28
SMOKE-OH 32
PEN AND PICTURE 35
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 36
SPORTING (Illustrated) 39, 41, 42
MOONEE VALLEY AND CANTERBURY PARK 39
RUGBY UNION—ALL BLACKS v. N.S.W. . . 39
RUGBY LEAGUE—N.S.W. v. Q’LAND . . 41
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 44
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 46
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 49
“The Quartermaster” • .. 50, 51, 52, 58
NORMAN LINDSAY ILLUSTRATION .. .. 51
STORY—
“THE MURDER OF MONTAGUE DARBY”—
By C. G. LEAROYD .. .. 55, 57
VERSE.—By Quentin Pope, Myra Morris, R.
Crawford, Robert Dale and Dulcie Deamer.. 57, 58
“William Macleod”—
By AndrSe Hayward . . .. .. .. 14
Next Week.
“THE GUNS.” —A Graphic Account of the Big-
Gun Firing on H.M.A.S. Australia.
“LIFE AT FAULT.”—A Vivid Story of Life in
Modern Russia, by S. Stedman (See p. 52).
HELPFUL HINTS TO FARMERS—The Half-year’s
Prize Winners.
Tluf&ullelM
WEDNESDAY, JUDY 3 3 1929.
THE GROWTH OF CRIME.
In the United States 12,000 murders are
now committed annually, according to the
report of the American Bar Association’s
Commission; they have nearly quadrupled
since 1900. And the annual cost of crime with-
in the Republic runs into dizzying millions.
Almost simultaneously with the issue of
this document comes the report of the N. S.
Wales Police Department, showing an in-
crease of cases brought before police courts
of 13.049 in 1928 compared with 1927. Motor-
car cases were responsible for a little over
half the increase, but there were 388 more
crimes against property with violence, and
668 more crimes against property without
violence. There were 251 mere “serious
crimes”—rapes, criminal assaults on females,
burglaries, etc. The official figures for the
first half of this year are not yet available,
but they are believed to constitute a State
record. Murderous assaults, for gain, for
revenge, by “basher gangs” on free workers,
and by hooligans on one another, were
never so common.
To an extent the tendency shown in these
two sets of figures is world-wide. It is one
of the penalties civilisation is paying for
universal education. The criminal is pro-
bably not much more numerous than ever
he was, in proportion to population; but the
modern practitioner is skilled in the use of
modern weapons, and he is organised, which
the blunderers of the Bill Sikes era were
not. No better proof can be afforded of
the solidarity of unionised crime than the
fact that members do not, as a rule, “squeak”
on their fellows, even when the latter have
cut them to pieces- with razors or riddled
them with bullets.
Detectives the world over rely for most
of their results on fizgigs, and on the ten-
dency of criminals to boast and make mis-
takes. The “rationalised criminal,” as the
Germans call him, is afraid to turn fizgig;
he is taught how to avoid mistakes, as far
as possible; and he is constantly warned
against boasting, which is the bane of every
true criminal.
In France any foreigner who is distaste-
ful to the Government can be expelled by
the police at a few hours’ notice. The Paris
correspondent of a New York paper was
sent home last year for no other reasbn.
In England undesirable aliens may be de-
ported or the police may order them to
report at a specified police-station every
week, and may forbid them to move from
town to town. The second course is
adopted with Russian agitators who have
refused to take the Soviet oath of allegiance,
and so are ineligible for return to Russia.
It is not suggested that deportation with-
out trial should be introduced to Australia,
but the Australian policeman’s lot would
be happier if deportation after trial were
fifty times more common.
Above all, the police, no less in the U.S.A.
1 than in N. S. Wales, are handicapped by a
type of newspaper which provokes crime by
advertising it. Imitativeness is so strongly
marked in the mental and moral weaklings
who commit most of the world’s crime that
an unusually horrible offence only needs to
be picturesquely reported, and it will at
once be experimented with by others. In
England homo-sexual and allied crimes get
little attention in the newspapers. In
the U.S.A. and N. S. Wales practically any-
thing will get attention if it will get cir-
culation. And until the Government inter-
venes, which it is not likely to do; these
incentives to crime will be printed and pub-
lished so long as their printing and publica-
tion are encouraged by purchase.
For the rest, The Bulletin is not much
concerned with what Uncle Sam should do
about it. But as a beginning in N. S. Wales
the police force should be augmented and
all A 1 men relieved from such work as that
of the Inspector-General’s office, which last
year handled 329,211 papers. The strength
of the force was only 1.41 per 1000 of the
population last year, when 56 per thousand
were proceeded against: it was 1.64 per
thousand in 1905, when only 45 per thou-
sand were proceeded against. Two-thirds
verdicts should be introduced in all but
capital cases. As things are, professional
jury-squarers, in collaboration with defend-
ers who take Chicago’s “shyster” lawyers
as their models, are able to defeat justice
in very many cases. And more Judges
should be appointed at higher salaries. The
Southern Cross fliers left last week because,
as they informed the press, “their libel cases,
though the writs were issued in May, can-
not come before the courts till December”;
and similar delays are common in the crimi-
nal jurisdiction. Slow and uncertain justice
is despised justice, and it is only when jus-
tice is despised that industrial, as well as
social, law-breakers summon up the cour-
age to urge that it should be flouted. It
has never been slower or more uncertain in
N. S. Wales .than it is to-day.
LAW AND THE LAWLESS.
An interesting observation, and one that
casts a flood of light on the recent tactics
of Australian trades unions in dispute with
their employers, was made by an ex-miner
named Hoare, who was charged with assault
and the use of threatening words. Hoare,
according to the evidence, was a member of
a band of pickets—probably its leader, since
he is a person of prominence in mine union
circles—and it was alleged that he forcibly
prevented a man from going to his work in
a colliery, by laying hands upon him and
using threatening words. Hoare, who pleaded
“not guilty” and appealed against his con-
viction, admitted in his evidence that his
object in picketing was to “tabulate the
names of those men who would not come
out, so that they could not work with decent
men again. We regarded them as scabs
and outside the law.” Asked by the prose-
cuting counsel if he believed in law-breaking
in the interests of his class, he replied: “Yes,
every time, and get the law amended. That
is what has made history—breaking laws.”
What he meant, apparently, was that the
road to progress and reform is paved with
broken laws; and there is just enough of a
half-truth in the notion to make it sound
valorous and not merely wicked. The
barons who bailed up King John on Runny-
mede and made him sign Magna Charta
fractured most of the Laws of the Realm
in order to get new ones made; and English
political history, right down to the time of
Mrs. Pankhurst and the suffragettes, has
its periodical instances of very upright and
well-intentioned people who defied certain
laws and took the consequences because
their cause, whatever it was, seemed to them
worth the personal sacrifices involved. But
it should be noted that wherever such
causes have succeeded, they have enlarged
the foundation upon which English law is
based; have made it more and more diffi-
cult for any minority, however militant,
unscrupulous, wealthy or well armed, to
impose its will upon the rest of the com-
munity.
The great names with which the history
of Democracy in England are studded be-
longed to men and women who had the
courage of their convictions and who would
have scorned to take shelter behind the
law. They did not, with a cunning smirk,
break the law with one hand and hold out
a fistful of silver to a lawyer with the other,
so that in a maze of legal subtleties they
might escape unscathed. Nor did they bend
their efforts to securing that their par-
ticular sect or craft or class should be
exempt from the laws applying to the rest
of the community and placed above the
authority of government.
A mid-Victorian philosopher advised:
“Take what thou wantest, thou discontented
man”; but he added, “and pay the price.”
If he had not been a philosopher of unim-
peachable morals he might have been sus-
pected of advising criminality; as it was,
everybody understood what he meant —If
you must run counter to the conventions
of society, you mustn’t squeal if society
retaliates.
What Hoare and his associates are “fight-
ing” for, as they humorously call it, is the
right to make trade unions, the officers of
trade unions, or even those nebulous non-
elected groups of anarchists who pursue the
profession of strike-mongering, the sole
arbiters as to what working men shall be
allowed to earn a living peacefully under
the law and as to what working men shall
be outlawed and driven from their occupa-
tions and their country. It is a right that
cannot be conceded by any democratic com-
munity, and those who seek to impose it
by illegal violence and intimidation should
not whimper if they are sternly dealt with.
Unfortunately for Australia the serious-
ness of such offences does not any longer
seem to be adequately appreciated by the
magistracy; and when they are appreciated
by the Judge of a higher court, Ministers
do not apparently move a finger to protect
him from outrageous threats.
THE CONQUEROR OF THE TROPICS.
“The triennial gold medal jor distin-
guished medical services was presented
to Sir Ronald Ross. Sir Ronald, who is
72, was too ill to speak. Dr. Sanduin-
etti, who made the presentation, said
that, although Sir Ronald had worked
out a tremendous medical discovery, he
would have done infinitely better jor
himself had he patented a new boot
polish.” —Cable.
Some years ago I was benighted on a
Malayan beach because the monsoon was
blowing inshore and the miserable pakaran-
gan I had come in would not sail closer
than 12 points to the wind. There was a
village half a mile inland, a wretched affair.
At one time it had tottered on its shaky
legs over the water, and the action of the
tides and a hole in the middle of the floor
were all the sanitary installation required to
keep an Arcadian family in a reasonable
state of health. The tides had retreated
years ago, but the village still shuffled its
domestic residue through the holes on to the
ground beneath, where it lay in a heap,
which, not to put too fine an edge on it,
stank. I pitched my mosquito-net in a
corner of the headman’s living-room and
spent the night trying to keep the mangy
dogs away.
Seeing my discomfort, my host went out
and set fire to the rubbish under the house,
and soon the room was full of stifling smoke.
Gradually the body-slappings ceased and
silence reigned, only broken by the shrill
treble of the mosquito’s warning note and
the murmurs of two of the headman’s family
slightly delirious with malaria.
In the morning I could see my friends
more clearly. The pot bellies of the child-
ren, the lack-lustre eyes of the women and
the languid movements of the men told
their own story. The white man’s jurisdic-
tion had extended to this district only
120 years, but the malarial mosquito had
ruled it for centuries. Everything here had
been the same for a thousand years—the
same primitive ploughs, the same simple
fishing-traps—and, left to themselves, they
would remain the same for as many more.
There was one white man in the vicinity.
Some company in London, with more opti-
mism than precise information, had tried
to establish a rubber estate, and he was the
overseer. In fact, he was one of a long
dynasty of overseers who had left their
bones or their health in that spot. He and
his bungalow were dropping to bits in uni-
son. The co. had gone into liquidation,
and the jungle had claimed the plantation
as its part of the assets; but the.overseer
hung on, held by pride or cussedness or
fascination of a sort.
Nobody could have wished for a better
argument to prove that civilisation could
not grow in such a place. Yet the miracle
was worked, as I found when some years
later I happened to return. The village had
disappeared and so had the white man—
underground. An admirably-planned town
with neat cottages surrounded by fruit trees
stood in their place. Concrete drains had
dealt with the mosquito-breeding pools.
A great waterworks and electric plant
to supply a city 50 miles away was in pro-
cess of construction in the near hills. One
of the engineers showed me statistics of
the concern. Whereas at one time it would
have been impossible to carry out such a
job except at the price of hundreds of lives,
conditions now were good enough for the
European staff to have their wives and
children with them, and the health of the
laborers was actually better than that of
workers on jobs'he had done in temperate
climes. On the financial side the firm con-
sidered that under the old conditions the
work would have cost half as much again
as at present, if it could have been carried
out at all.
It can fairly be claimed that the meta-
morphosis of that Malayan beach was
directly due to Sir Ronald Ross. It is
nearly half a century since he went to
India determined to drag out of the maze
of myth and conjecture the truth about
the cause of malaria. He was hampered
by ill-health and lack of funds, and his
envious superiors, who had a vested inter-
est in the old delusions, deliberately shifted
him, when on the verge of the discovery,
to a district which was free from the mos-
quitoes he suspected of being the carriers
of the disease. As a result of that transfer
he spent years in an acrimonious dispute
regarding priority of discovery with some
Italians who had filched his ideas.
After finding the cause of malaria Ross
devoted the rest of his career to trying to
force the simple measures for prevention on
lethargic authorities in all parts of the
world. It took a generation; but to-day no
public or private body dreams of starting a
tropical enterprise without carrying out
at least some of them.
Many authorities believe that the
malarial mosquito destroyed the reign of
imperial Rome, and overturned the Hindoo
empires in Java and Cambodia. It cer-
tainly brought to naught the first attempt
to build the Panama Canal, and, finally,
fastened on the vast tropical regions of
the world the stigma of being a graveyard
for the white man and a living death for the
brown. Ross changed that, and, inciden-
tally, paved the way for the conquest by
the white man of one-third of the Aus-
tralian continent. The fact that he is
ending his days in poverty in England is a
striking commentary on the levity of this
civilisation of ours, which loads its less.
worthy members with riches and rewards its
best servants with ignorant neglect.
St. ANU.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Bruce-Pages Reirench.
The Bruce-Page Government, having
fooled away vast sums on State roads, Com-
monwealth steamers, loan works and royal
commissions, is about to try its hand at
retrenchment. And, as might be expected of
a Government with its record, it is going
to retrench in the wrong direction.
National defence is to suffer again. In
1922-23 the Fleet personnel was reduced
from 4843 to 3500. Men who really could
not be spared were offered inducements to
quit the service; before long many of them
were offered inducements to return. During
the same period Citizen Force training was
reduced from seven quotas to three.
With the building of the two 10,000-ton
cruisers and the two submarines, the R.A.N.
has recovered to some extent from the
shock of the scrapping policy, but the
effects are still painfully evident in the
C.M;F. That force, splendid as the human
material is, has been systematically starved
of funds. Inspector-General Chauvel has
repeatedly pointed out that it is impossible
to properly staff, equip and train even three
quotas numbering about 45,000 young men
on an expenditure of less than a million and
a half per annum. Including £1,000,000 for
the final instalment of the developmental
programme begun in 1924, the Defence Ex-
penditure will amount this year to a little
less than £5,600,000. It is a dangerously
small total, considering .hat Australia is
an exposed continent with outlying pos-
sessions, especially as it includes £301,000
for interest on loans and transferred proper-
ties and other items which are not really
Defence expenditure at all.
Yet we are to have another edition of
the false economy of 1922-23. The first
blow was struck at what is left of the Lith-
gow (N.S.W.) small-arms factory; 340 hands
were given a week’s notice, and it is ex-
pected that 130 or 140 will be dismissed.
Then it was announced that there would
be “drastic retrenchment” in the Air Force,
though the Government is committed to
substantial increases in the personnel and
equipment of that arm, as recommended
by Sir John Salmon. A further mutilation
of the C.M.F. was also planned; and the
unhappy Chauvel rushed away to Canberra
in the despairing hope that he might be
able to avert it. As for the R.A.N., it was
given out that “one or both of the new
submarines might be placed in reserve,
together with the 12 other ships (two of
them .cruisers and nine destroyers) now
idle in Sydney Harbor; and one or two of
the three destroyers now in service might
be added to their number.”
And all the time the Commonwealth
Government is spending money like water
on State speedways. It is contributing at the
rate of £2,000,000 a year to such fantastic
expenditures as £424,000 for 14f miles of
road from Hornsby (N.S.W.) to the Haw-
kesbury River, £210,000 for 12 miles
in the Bowenfels-Rvdal (N.S.W.) district,
and £129,000 for eight miles south of the
Swan River (W.A.).
*
Who Killed Keith Anderson?
The Bulletin was never much concerned
about the alleged hardships suffered by
Kingsford Smith and his associates; they
could recover. But it was concerned about
Keith Anderson and his associate: they
were irrecoverable. The chief purpose of
the Commission, therefore, as this paper ,


saw it, was to find out who killed Keith
Anderson —not deliberately, of course, but
by neglect or otherwise.-
The Southern Cross had been mysteri-
ously lost, and it was suggested that the
crew of four had lost themselves, though
why they should do it was never
explained. There was also a further sug-
gestion, mistier even than the other, that,
according to plan, Anderson was to find
them. A very competent, well-informed
and absolutely trustworthy tribunal has in-
quired into the circumstances of the whole
business, and completely exonerates all the
fliers from any charge of dishonest inten-
tion. Both crews were careless in their
preparations for, and reckless in the per-
formance of, their project, neglecting at
almost every stage of their adventure pre-
cautions which would have been taken by
more prudent people. But, though that
may be disastrous—and in this case was
disastrous —it is in keeping with the tem-
perament of men who stake their lives
in gambles with the elements.
Through the warp and woof of the whole
fabric of the inquiry ran threads of
personal and commercial animus which
showed that stunt flying has its seamy side
and its monetary side. But that was known
before; and there is very little doubt we
shall meet it again. In this connection a
point that the inquiry has not cleared up
is the reason for the conduct of the publi-
can. who financed the Kookaburra’s flight,
and whose f&tuous assumption of secret
knowledge delayed considerably, according
to the evidence, the commencement of a
search for Anderson.
The recommendations of the Commis-
sion, which are expected to form the basis
of Federal legislation, are moderate and
reasonable, and their application to future
air ventures should do much towards cur-
tailing risks and saving this country from
the loss of life, expenditure of public money
and disorganisation of flying services which
were entailed in this instance.
♦:
Pardon Us a Moment—
Part of this issue has come from a new
Hoe magazine press; the third installed
since 1924. The first was designed to help
print The Bulletin; the next to take care
of the Woman’s Mirror. It looked as
though that would complete the machinery
programme for a good many years; but
there was such a strong forward movement
in all three of the office’s publications last
year that an order had to be placed with
Hoe’s for a third magazine press to carry
part of the issue of both Bulletin and
Mirror. The installation promises to be,
like its predecessors, completely satisfac-
tory.
Without sweeping into the count innum-
erable incidental expenses, these installa-
tions have cost £60,000; and they are
capable of artistically producing weekly up-
wards of 120,000 copies of The Bulletin
and 250,000 copies of the Woman’s Mirror,
when the demand for those numbers is
made. For some months past it has not
been possible to supply all the demands
for the Mirror; they will now be
attended to.
The response of the Australian public to
efforts made to increase the value of The
Bulletin has been inspiring: this is no
place to say more than that the circulation
is now between 40 and 50 per cent greater
than it ever was before the war.
p
Australia in a Strait-jacket.
Dear Bulletin, —Much discussion is taking
place as to whether the withdrawal of the
Federal authority from Arbitration is going
to be beneficial or otherwise. Can any-
thing less than a complete overhaul of
Australian government be of any substan-
tial advantage?
State control resumed will restore pros-
perity. It is imperative that a recast of
the whole of the creations of the Federal
authorities be made, with a small Federal
council of about 18 members to manage
loans and interest: almost every other
function of government should be handed
back to the State Parliaments. Canberra
should be scrapped and forgotten.
It is quite patent to anyone who has in-
terested himself in Commonwealth results
that Australia has reached an impasse. Yet
the country is sound; only the management
is at fault—-too much government, too many
restrictive laws and regulations, and not
sufficient work done to produce those things
which are in reality the money to pay for
Australia’s needs.
Tasmania has long since realised the
strait-jacket she was buttoned up in as
a result of her desire to be associated with
Australia as a Commonwealth; and the
time has now been reached when even the
affluent and consequential mainland States
are feeling just the same jacket-effect of
Federation.
Handing back Arbitration to the States is
a fragile suggestion when Australia is im-
perilled by almost the whole of the Federal
ordinances. To be allowed to do just honest
work is the only remedy for Australia’s
troubles, financial or otherwise.—Yours
faithfully, T. Murdoch (Hobart).
*
Trial by Jury in Civil Cases.
Dear Bulletin, —That trial by jury—I
speak for the present of civil cases—is not
a sine qua non of our legal system is proved
by the fact that it is employed only in a
very small proportion of cases in N. S.
Wales Law Courts; in fact, only in the
Common Law Courts, generally known as
Nisi Prius Courts. In all other jurisdic-
tions of the Supreme Court of N. S. Wales
trial by jury has well-nigh vanished, and may
be resorted to only in exceptional circumstan-
ces, for specific purposes, and on the appli-
cation of one or both parties to a cause, or
sometimes, though very rarely, at the instance
of the Judge. Speaking generally, it has
no place in all these jurisdictions—Bank-
ruptcy, Probate, Divorce, Admiralty, Equity.
It is almost unnecessary to add that in our
District Courts, too, it has no place, except
on the application of one or other of the
parties to a case.
So, too, in the High Court of Aus-
tralia—in its original civil jurisdiction—
trial by Judge is the rule; only in very
exceptional cases may certain issues of
fact be remitted to a jury.
And yet there are many who will fight,
with a tenacity worthy of a better cause,
for the retention of the jury system in
ordinary nisi prius causes in this State!
We are sometimes glibly told that all
questions that arise in Law Courts are
either questions of law or questions of fact,
and that the former are for the Judge and
the latter for a jury. There is no such
dichotomy. There are many mixed ques-
tions of fact and law; and what lawyer does
not know that costly and unsatisfactory
litigation has been waged and is being
waged over such supposed distinctions?
But I do not wish to trench on technical
matters. If you take an ordinary action
for libel or for malicious prosecution, you
see how impossible it is to apply what is
ostensibly a simple rule.
As to questions of fact, why should not
a Judge be . the judge of the facts, as well
as the law? Is not a Judge quite as able
to come to a sound conclusion on the facts
as the ordinary juryman? Four men (as a
rule it is four, sometimes it is twelve),
indiscriminately chosen and without any
regard to their intelligence, their capacity
for weighing evidence or their impartiality,
are entrusted with the responsible task of
returning a verdict for the plaintiff or the
defendant, and, if for the former, of assess-
ing the damages or compensation. Clever
advocates appeal to the prejudices of these
four men, and make speeches and use
arguments which they would not dare to
address to a Judge sitting alone to try a
case. Appeals are lodged over and over
again on the ground that the verd’ct of
the jury is against evidence and the weight
of evidence, or that the verdict was such
as no reasonable men could have given.
And then we have a Bench of Judges who
are, it must be remembered, supposed to
decide the law and not the facts, sitting to
determine whether the verdict of the jury
should be reversed or set aside! This is all
hopelessly illogical.
I do not shut my eyes to the possible
arguments in favor of the retention of the
present system; but, looking at the matter
as a whole, and from the point of view of
the best interests of the public, I would
say that the abolition of the jury system
in civil cases is overdue. It would con-
siderably diminish the number of appeals;
it would cut away a substantial amount of
the chicanery now incidental to forensic
proceedings; it would reduce the gambling
element which is, under any system, in-
herent in all litigation. In England and in
other parts of the British Dominions trial
by jury in civil cases has been virtually
discontinued. Why not in New South
Wales?—Yours, etc., Daniel Levy.
♦
Should Arbitration Go Altogether?
Peter Atrey, a former Treasurer of Queens-
land, says Yes:—
The Bulletin declares that “Federal
arbitration at its best is costly, complicated,
provocative and ineffective.” But State arbi-
tration is open to charges equally grievous.
In Queensland we have seen a railway ser-
vice demoralised and dry-rotted largely owing
to awards not justified by the economic
position of the department. The charge that
when the Federal Court’s awards were satis-
factory to the unions they were accepted, and
when not satisfactory defied, is equally true
of the State courts. The State employees
were placed under the Arbitration Court by
Premier Theodore in order to relieve his
Government of the responsibility of granting
or refusing increases, and the result is evi-
dent in the parlous condition of our finances
to-day. When Senator Ogden says, “We may
take legal proceedings against those who
disobey the law, but the unions laugh at
these efforts. Fines cannot be collected or
punishment inflicted,” he should have made
it clear that he was indicting all arbitration,
not Federal only. Here in Queensland on
one notable occasion we heard the represen-
tative of the Railway Commissioner tell the
Court that his department had just shown
an enormous deficit, and could not therefore
afford the demanded increases. The Judge
came down on him like a thunderclap. “I
have nothing to do with the finances of the
department,” he said, and granted the con-
cessions. Result —bigger deficits than ever.
My prime indictment against arbitration,
outside the glaring fact of its calamitous
failure to effect its original purpose of pre-
venting strikes, is that it takes out of the
hands of a Government the control of its
finances, for the power that settles the wages
of the State servant must of necessity largely
determine the State’s taxation. With regard
to private employment, Professor Elton Mayo
(Q.) summed it up thus: “Arbitration must
be held to have widened the social chasm
separating masters and men, and to have
countenanced the. notion of the ‘class war.’
In effect arbitration recognises and legalises
social disintegration.... The Arbitration
Judge is set the hopeless task of producing
by regulation that which can only be spon-
taneous —growth.” This looked absurd at
one time, but
events have fully
justified it.
Every one of
The Bulletin's
strictures on Fed-
e r a 1 arbitration
apply with equal
force to the State
method.
And in reply:—
The Bulletin
has no longer any
enthusiasm for in-
dustrial arbitration.
But in theory arbi-
tration is so much better than strikes
and lockouts that this paper is not prepared
to kick it out without giving it a further
trial. It has not had a fair trial of recent
years. Federal “disputes” have been faked
to get the fixation of wages and conditions
before the Federal Court; and there has been
absurd competition between the two sets of
tribunals. Whether things will be satisfac-
tory with State tribunals as the only arbi-
trators is, this paper confesses, uncertain.
Everything depends upon the composition
of the courts —if they must be called courts
■ —the leadership of the unions and the
courage of Ministers. In any case, the tri-
bunals should have nothing to do with the
public services. Parliament alone should be
responsible for them.
Two related fundamental changes are also
necessary: (1) Preference to unionists can
be conceded only in return for implicit
obedience to arbitration-court awards and
rulings; (2) picketing must be abandoned.
If we erect machinery for settling industrial
disputes we cannot give any quarter to pre-
arbitration methods of physical force. Either
Mb. Piddington or the Basher gang must
go.
»
South African Wool.
From an ex-Australian sheepman in South
Africa:—
I notice you are still warning Australian
sheepmen against exporting to Africa.
Good; though I am not sure that it is not
now too late. At Sir Abe Bailey’s sale
recently a s : x-year ram brought £2OOO, a,
lamb ram £1750 and a ewe £350. All were
bred from Zara (Vic.) stud sheep. This
helps to show the demand for Australian-
bred stuff, and also the soundness of the
sheep industry here.
There is no doubt in my mind that Africa
is actually producing a better fine wool than
Australia to-day, and I can see the African
breeder also exporting his sheep in the near
future. Some studs have already started
exporting.
At present, sheep-farming is the only
sound investment here, and since the intro-
duction of Australian sheep grazing ground
has risen in price from £1 per morgen (about
two acres) to an average of £lO. It is
considered that the return from each sheep is
over 20s. per annum.
*
The Safer Use of Electricity.
Dear Bulletin, —Writing of the dangers of
electricity, “Nitric” (B. 5/6/’29) recently
suggested that the reduction of voltage
would minimise the number of accidents.
Passing by the fact that 230, the standard
Australian voltage, is standard also
in Maoriland and Europe, with the ex-
ception of the countries mentioned by
“Nitric,” the safeguarding of life lies not
in the reduction of pressure, but in (1)
educating the public in the safe use of
electricity, and (2) tightening up legislation
relating to the installation and inspection
of equipment, the sale and operation of
appliances, and the licensing of persons to
do wiring, etc.
To reduce the voltage would involve
Victoria alone in the expenditure of mil-
lions; and, even so, authorities do not con-
sider that reduction of pressure would solve
the problem. Where unqualified persons are
permitted to meddle with installation and
equipment even 110 volts are a menace to life.
The Vic. Electricity Commission has in
hand regulations designed to enforce the test-
ing and approval of all domestic apparatus
and fittings before they are put on the
market, enforce the licensing of electrical
contractors as well as of electrical wire-
men, and extend the scope of supervision
and inspection of wiring installations. The
law in Victoria will have to be amended
before these regulations may be en-
forced.
Statistics for Victoria show that during
1926 —the latest year for which figures are
available—electricity was responsible for
only eight deaths, not one of which was
that of a woman, out of a total of 884.
caused through accidental violence—less
than one per cent. Nevertheless, it is to be
hoped that by legalisation and regulation
even this low percentage may be reduced.—
Yours, etc., Query.
DOWN!
"Trade unionists are concerned at the proposed abolition of the Commonwealth Arbitration Court and the exclusion of rural workers from the State Industrial Courts in
N.S.W. and Queensland."
THE UNIONIST: "Cripes, the poor bruts's dead all right! I wonder if it's because I everloaded him?"


:iAL> RESERVE
WKi&ky
RED, WHITE and BLUE
WHISKY 1
Gaelic Special Reserve
DEARER BUT BETTER
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO., LTD.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN AGENTS: JAMES HENTY & CO., 499 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD., 444 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Sp.EL iq
?.rs
ar\ft v
POLITICAL
POINTS
In Canberra, Treasurer Page is expected
to announce a cut in the baby bonus, which
will cost just on £700,000 this year, when
he presents his woeful budget in August.
The idea is he will limit the payment to
people with less than £4OO p.a. The Act
was passed just before the 1913 general
election, “to assist the birth-rate,” as was
explained. The birth-rate was 28.65 in 1912
and 21.67 in 1927.
It is impossible to believe that Tom Glas-
gow, who commanded
the First Division in
France, is in favor of
wholesale retrench-
ment in the R.A.N.,
the C.M.F., the Air
Force and the Muni-
tions branch. But if
this crazy programme
is really contemplated,
and Glasgow i s
opposed to it, his duty
is clear —he should tell
Bruce and Page that
unless they are pre-
pared to maintain the
forces on an adequate
footing they will have
to get another De-
fence Minister. Resig-
nations for principle’s
sake have gone out of
fashion since politics
became professional-
ised, but this is a case
in which the safety of
the nation is in ques-
tion. And Glasgow is
believed to be a cut
above trimmers like
Pearce.
Tom Glasgow,
worried.
Before a shilling is taken off the Defence
estimates the Post Office ought to get an
overhaul. In every other English-speaking
country the Post Office makes steady and
substantial contributions in relief of taxes.
In Maoriland receipts exceeded payments
by £690,000 in 1926. £974,000 in ’27 and
£1,030,000 in ’2B; and Maoriland has penny
postage. In Australia* the Postmaster-
General complacently reported a loss of
£230,000 last year, bringing the deficit for
four years to £930,000. It points to grossly
incapable administration.
Vic. Nationalists expect T. K. Maltby, of
Geelong, to retain the Barwon Assembly seat
for the party. The Nat Fed. and the
A.W.N.L. are behind him, the pre-selection
oracle having been worked in his favor. But
there are two other candidates with Minis-
terial leanings, Belcher and Black, both local
residents; and Belcher is giving the pre-
selection crowd some nasty knocks. The elec-
tors will do their own selecting on Saturday.
There are 11,000 of them.
Perth racing clubs, hard hit by the start-
ing-price bookie, are making heroic, but
hitherto ineffectual, attempts to settle that
parasite’s hash. The Post Office ought to
be helping them, if only because s.-p. bookies
are robbing the country of a vast amount of
revenue from amusement-taxes, bookmakers’
licenses and betting tickets, tote-commission
and income-taxes; instead, the Post Office is
helping the robbers. One of its high officials
airily explains that “the department is not
a censor of public morals.” But in the
matter of Tatt.’s sweeps it has posed as a
censor of public morals for 25 years.
Robert Gibson,
peacernaher.
One hopeful sign in
the welter of indus-
trial wrangles is that
men who command
confidence by their fine
character, capacity
and human feeling are
coming forward in the
cause of peace. The
settlement of the Vic.
timber-workers' strike
was largely due to the
sweet reasonableness
of Robert Gibson, as
chairman of the con-
ference, and when it
was all over both sides
gave him such a re-
ception that the kindly
old manufacturer
broke down. Gibson
was Deputy Chairman
of the Repatriation
Commissioners when
it was an honorary
job; he has since been
Chairman of Directors
of the Commonwealth
Bank.
People walking by the Seamen’s Union
offices in Sydney lately have been in constant
danger of being struck by the hurtling bodies
of ejected officials. There have been three
changes of officials in as many weeks. The
latest occupants of the rather dirty nest got
there on the undertaking that they will
accept reduced salaries—a policy not to be
tolerated for a moment if suggested by the
loathsome capitalist.
History is only repeating itself. Canberra
having started to retrench, there has been
rationing of pens. In South Australia, after
the great smash, Homburg, arriving fresh
from an election, went through his part of
the Government offices and found clerks
using “Magnum Bonum” pens. An order
followed abolishing this expensive brand of
nib. and the Opposition made great sport
of it. But it was nothing to laugh at —as
politicians soon discovered. Before many
years the hard-up State found it couldn’t
afford to pay more than four Ministers.
Ex-Premier Lang, of N.S.W., has declared
in his intense way that harmless timber-
strike pickets and Christian “bashers” have
been brutally maltreated at police head-
quarters, and he wants something done
about it. The statement may be true even
though Lang says it is, but people would
be much more likely to believe what he said
if he had said nothing. It should be made clear
to the Auburn estate-agent that no more
commissions will be appointed to inquire
into his yarns unless he first deposits £2OO,
to be forfeited if he doesn’t come into court
to give evidence, or if he comes in and is
bowled out.
A great sigh of relief went up from
Queensland civil servants when Premier
Moore announced that they would no longer
be obliged to belong to trade-unions. For
years the boss of the local A.L.P.
branch has held the whip-hand over the
Government employees in his district. ' High
or low, they were expected to be present
when Comrade Wardboss held forth. Any-
one missing on such occasions was marked
for an adverse report to Brisbane. The
Moore ordinance will liberate thousands of
Queenslanders from petty tyranny carried to
the most arrogant lengths.
In 1927 Australia gained 48.924 new popu-
lation by excess of arrivals over departures.
In 1928 the gain was only 27,232. In the
first three months of 1929 it was 1178, or
at the rate of 4712 per annum: in the fourth
month departures exceeded arrivals by 1810.
It is the inevitable result of big loans, big
strikes, big loafing and tolerance of imported
revolutionaries.
Vic. Cremation Society recently asked
Chief Sec. Argyle to tax earth burials so
heavily as to make cremation practically
compulsory. Religion is too tightly tied up
in the question to make such a proposal pos-
sible, but Argyle promised to do his best
to provide funeral ghats more extensively.
Incidents like that at Stratford are likely
to do more to popularise cremation than legis-
lation. After a recent flood residents learned
that water from the cemetery was seeping
into the town supply.
Within 15 months N.S.W. has acquired for
subdivision, or persuaded the owners to sub-
divide, 45 estates with a total area of 451,679
acres. These were divided into 356 mixed
farms, the average being rather over two
square miles per settler and family. That
is about the regulation closer-settlement
space nowadays. Mixed farming seems the
only thing which pays when local markets
are absurdly scanty and foreign markets are
so far off. The position would be different
if the inland towns had an industrial popu-
lation to supply customers, but they haven’t.
Maoriland has no use for the sentimental
pacifism so popular in Australia, particularly
in the quarter from which “basher gangs”
come. Two young gentlemen who had per-
sistently refused to do their military-training
cohrse, even with a non-combatant unit, have
been fined and deprived of all civic rights for
10 years. The proceeding is sternly logical.
No able-bodied fellow who takes up the posi-
tion that the preservation of his country is
no concern of his has any moral right to a
share in its government.
W. J. Farrer, who put millions into the
pockets of Australian farmers by his won-
derful research and experimental work, is
to be honored by the erection of a Common-
wealth memorial. It was on his farm, Lam-
brigg, a few miles from Canberra, that he
began his experiments in wheat-breeding, and
here he evolved the Federation and Florence
varieties. Lambrigg, where the memorial is
to be raised, is now up for selection on a
seven-years’ lease. The historic little farm
(it is only 240 acres) ought to be retained
by the nation and used for experimental pur-
poses—that would be a fitter memorial than
an obelisk.
Kavanagh, the imported combustible who
runs the Sydney timber-workers’ strike and
treats the Bavin-Buttonhole Ministry with
the scorn it invites, still promises victory.
And if he refuses to declare the strike off
it may apparently remain on for years after
there has ceased to be any material bone
of contention left. It may be a very long
time before the well-drilled unionist refuses
to support this old ghost. So why should
Kavanagh lose?
The Australians
McCann (S. A.) and
Turnbull (Vic.) seem
to have made an excel-
lent impression at the
Ex-Servicemen’s Con-
ference in London;
anyway, they con-
vinced the necessary
majority that the next
conference should be
held at Sydney in
1931. It is hoped that
the American Legion
will be represented on
that occasion. Turn-
bull suggested that
the Legion should be
invited to support the
cancellation of inter-
Allied war debts, but
the conference
wouldn’t take a
motion on that deli-
cate subject, being
about to meet General
Dawes.
Digger Turnbull.
When the new British Parliament met.
the position was mixed. Lloyd George says
he will support the Labor Ministry pro-
vided it tackles unemployment “promptly,
boldly, energetically and wisely.” MacDonald
says he wall have nothing to do with George’s
idea of big loans and relief works, and
George will have nothing to do with the
policy of “nationalising” everything which
is on the MacDonald programme. The
Welshman warns his followers that they
will often have to abstain from voting be-
cause they (or he) can’t stand the Govern-
ment’s proposals. But that method would
lead nowhere and it would be a very well-dis-
ciplined crowd that would suffer it. The
frequent swallowing of opinions leads to
indigestion.
One of the larger troubles of the agricul-
turist in Australia is the very high price of
farming land, all things considered; it has
been responsible not only . for so many re-
turned Diggers failing to make good on the
land, but also for the country making such
prodigious losses out of this attempted
settlement business. We shall have to seri-
ously consider whether extravagant prices
haven’t been largely produced by excessive
facilities for borrowing money on land —that
is, to buy land. A large proportion of the
loans of some Australian banks has been on
farms and the like, whereas in many coun-
tries commercial or trading banks are ex-
pressly forbidden to lend on land; that is
the very rigid law in the U.S.A., for ex-
ample.
The South Aus. Government is appealing
to the full High Court against the order of
Starke, J., for production of the minute-books
of the State Dried Fruits Board, which led to
a board official being imprisoned for con-
tempt of court. The appeal will be heard in
Sydney in July, and will (or perhaps won’t)
dispose of the question whether Judge or
Minister has the last word in deciding
whether or not a document is privileged
from production on the ground of public
policy. Wolfe Tone’s case is the best-known
example of the disallowance by the Courts
of a claim of privilege made by the Govern-
ment. Wolfe Tone, who took part in the
French invasion of Ireland in 1798, was
tried by court-martial ami sentenced to
death. The Court of King’s Bench in Ire-
land granted a writ of habeas corpus for his
release, holding that the military officers
who tried him were illegally attempting to
enforce martial law.
J. A. Robb, the Canadian Minister of
Finance, who was in Australia a few years
ago, suggests that
British countries hit
by the new TT.S. tariff
should retaliate by
going in for preferen-
tial trade on the grand
scale. Australia will
be willing to consider
concrete proposals:
but, as Gullett has been
saying in the Com-
monwealth and Ben-
nett., the Conservative
leader, in Canada, you
can’t give tariff con-
cessions to overseas
industries at the ex-
pense of corresponding
local industries. And
the results of the
agreement that Robb
helped to bring about
are not exactly glow-
ing. Certainly, Aus-
tralian exports to
Canada increased in
value from £235,000 in
1923-24 to £1,171,000
in 1926-27, but there
was a fall to £856,000
last year; and Cana-
James Robb.
"p[?]tint
Im[?]ialist."
dian exports to Aus-
tralia slumped from £5,040,000 in ’2.3-24 to
£3,278,000 in ’27-28.
A minor Government official stationed
some 90 miles south from Sydney gives it as
his experience that, next to the time-payment
motor-car, about the most frequent passer
on the road is the wanderer in search of
work. To a remarkable extent he is quite
an amateur at the game, and his chance is
pitiably small. Even if the farmer wants
to give him a job, it is impossible these times
to pay an amateur the basic wage (£4 4s.
per week), and to pay less is too dangerous.
Every applicant is a potential informer.
Between him and a billet which might pro-
vide meank to carry him another stage is a
wall like the ramparts of perdition—the wall
that Piddington built.
The Proportional Representation people in
England have issued another annual report
in which the breakdown of the two-party sys-
tem in Australia is stressed; it will be able
now to include Britain, too. But what about
it? The society’s aim is “to secure that the
majority of electors shall rule and all con-
siderable minorities shall be heard." But
what good is it having all these elaborate
devices for use outside Parliament if you
don’t make them for use also inside Parlia-
ment? And since that means the overthrow
of party government, none of these societies
dare advocate it. The only effect of P.R.
in Tasmania has been to bring the two
parties back almost level in every new Par-
liament ; and a Government without a decent
working majority is nearly always a time-
serving, vote-catching, spineless misfit.
It is time traffic rules were put wholly in
the hands of the Police Departments, and it
is equally time the Police Departments
agreed on rules to apply throughout the
Commonwealth. At present in the matter
of passing stationary trams, for instance, no
Melbourne driver knows where he is, and
when he crosses to Sydney or Adelaide he
knows less. This isn’t a matter of the
safety of the motorist; it is chiefly a matter
of the safety of the pedestrian. In Sydney
this neglected person is supposed to be better
looked after than in Melbourne, w T here in
many places the tram passenger has to
scuttle for safety as best he can. Yet even
in Sydney there are scored of places—Circu-
lar Quay, for instance —where not even the
traffic police seem to know whether the rule
about not passing stationary trams applies,
and these places—the Quay especially—have
become death-traps in consequence, simply
because one queue of vehicles will obey the
rule and the next will not.
A MIX-UP
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“According to the London correspondent of a
Berlin newspaper, the temperaments of the three
party leaders in British politics oppose their political
views. The Socialist leader is a Conservative, the
Conservative a Liberal, and the Liberal a typical
Socialist.”
Some men are born to greatness, more
achieve it,
Hitching their waggons to a guiding star;
And some lead parties, though you mayn’t
believe it,
Temperamentally dissimilar
To all they stand for, failing to perceive it
Till someone tells them what they really
are.
But such a mad, bad, glad mix-up as this
Must surely rank as sui generis.
Ramsay, who led to victory and glory
The Labor hosts with panaceas glib
For times disjointed, is a crusted Tory
At heart, and Baldwin a progressive Lib
Compared with Palmerston so famed in
story,
Or Gladstone, Rosebery and Asquith sib
(An ancient Saxon word that many a time
I’ve found invaluable for a rhyme).
And D. Lloyd George, that fiery Cambrian
wizard,
Who claims the Gladstone flag aloft to
hold,
I wonder if it’s sticking in his gizzard
Without circumlocution to be told
That such a devastating human blizzard
As he has strayed from out his rightful
fold,
Marked, as he was, to be the pet and pride
Of lusty dockers from the Thames and Clyde.
Ah, well! Perhaps it doesn’t greatly matter,
Still it might straighten tangles if you
three—
Each toying with another’s cup and platter—
Should apprehend what you were meant
to be
And move around —like Alice and the Hatter
And eke the Hare at Lewis Carroll’s tea.
Three crowds you lead. So much at least is
fixed.
But dash it, chaps, you’ve got your labels
mixed!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Il.R.B.”: Our oldest inhabitant assures
me that the latest ’quake in the Shivery
Isles introduced some distinctly new features
Almost without exception, people who were
on their feet at the time felt as if over-
come by giddiness or sickness. So-called
detonations were also heard, quite unlike
the usual rumble that causes the good house-
wife to seize the best china and place it on
the floor. During the slighter shocks that
followed the big shake, however, it soon
became apparent that the louder the noise
the smaller the shake.
# * * *
“Te Pana” : The ravages by earthquake in
the Buller gorge (M.L.) are likely to per-
manently settle the chances of a railway line
between Nelson and Inaugahua Junction,
which is the rail link to AA r estport and Grey-
mouth. Maoriland lias some awful examples
of railway engineering, but the Buller rail-
way remains the most futile effort. Glenhope
is the present terminus from Nelson. From
there on, construction gangs have been at
work on the permanent way in spasms for
years past. Between hills hundreds of feet
in height lie little river flats, and the finan-
cial fate of at least a dozen contractors
has been settled in wild efforts at bridging,
damming and tunnelling. If the ’quake pre-
vents any further expenditure, it will be
something to set against the havoc wrought.
* * it: it*
“Toasy” : “Nakhoda,” referring to a Mel-
bourne judicial decision that a man who
died before his on-the-way child was born
left no issue, mentions that in parts of
Asia a Judge would be obliged to give a
contrary ruling (B. 19/6/’29). In 1895
the Court of Chancery in England had to
interpret a will containing a clause: “I
give, devise and bequeath [certain property]
to my daughter, Kate Cleghorn, for her
absolute use and benefit in case . she has
issue living at the, death of my wife.” At
the time of the widow’s death Kate Cleg-
horn was not a mother; a day later she
was delivered of a living child. The Court
held that “the child was en ventre sa
mere at the time of the grandmother's
death and was therefore then living,” and
hence that Kate Cleghorn was absolutely
entitled to the moiety given her by the
will. There is an ecclesiastical ruling on
the point which goes a step further —a
SOMETHING NEW AHEAD!
“I’m not feeling like myself this evening, old girl.”
“Oooh! I wonder who you’ll feel like!”
decision by the learned doctors of the Sor-
bonne that an unborn child may be validly
baptised.
* :!: * *
“Exdig'’: The French Government has
gone to the pains of issuing a White Paper
to disprove the oft-repeated charge that
ground for cemeteries where Allied soldiers
are buried had to be purchased and that
rent was paid for the trenches manned by
Allied troops. Nevertheless, the latter
denial is a shuffle with the truth. So much
trouble arose in the early part of the war
owing to the presence of spies amongst the
civil population which hung on near the,
front line that it was resolved to clear the
civilians out of a broad strip behind the
line. As compensation for the. disturbance,
a French or Belgian mission in each area
made an assessment of the troops billeted
on the land, and “rent” was charged against
the armies at so much a head. Still, it
was a cheap price to pay for immunity from
betrayal; prior to this spies cropped up
in the most unexpected places. There was
a Belgian ploughman with a white horse
who directed the German gunfire by the way
he guided his charge. There was another
spy who served the enemy similarly by
signalling with the hands on a clock-face
in Albert until an observant A.I.F. cor-
poral, noticing the erratic movements of
the hands and the curious way in which the
falling shells changed direction, caught the
culprit in the act.
* * * *
“Flagwagger”: A Melbourne pedagogue
recently showed me a note reading: “Dear
teacher, —Please excuse Jim for being away
from school, for he won’t be. able to go till
his father gets paid on Friday night. I
had to cut up his trousers to mend his
father’s trousers so that my husband could
go to work. —Yours truly, Mrs. Blank.” Jim s
younger brother delivered the document, and,
in response to a question or two, disclosed
a mild deception on the part of the writer.
The father, it transpired, wild because his
wife had long neglected to patch h s working
trousers, had one evening decided to do
the job himself. The lady was at the pic-
tures, and, unable to find any patches
handy, he had laid tribute on son Jim’s only
pair of “strides,” the wearer then being in
bed. The following Monday Jim furnished
his quota of substantiation by arriving at
school in a brand-new pair of pants.
* s|: * *
“Oxmead” : It looks as if Labor’s newest
peer, Sydney Webb that was, Lord Passfield
Corner that is, chose his title with a view
to ridiculing the imposing or picturesque
place-names with which ennobled commoners
love to deck themselves. Often, indeed, the
more utilitarian the nobleman’s calling the
greater his urge for something that smacks
of seigniory; take the case of Lever, the
Soap King, who selected for his second
title the high-sounding “Lord of the West-
ern Isles.” AVebb, I gather from “Who’s
Who,” resides at Passfield Corner, Liphook
(wherever that may be), so presumably lie
takes the mere intersection of two suburban
thoroughfares to the peerage with him in-
stead of some old-world village . nestling
among historic elms. Obviously, if Labor
stays in office, we may presently be treated
to a Lord Hyde Park Corner or a Lord
Covent Garden or even a Lord Clapham
Junction. The prospect might make some
of Lord John Manners’s “old nobility” turn
in their graves.
*** ’ *
“Nakhoda”: The story of Tasmanian
Binglii’s decline and disappearance is better
known than the disastrous condition of
his half-and-half descendants. Some years
ago the State Government relegated the
numerous half-castes to Cape Barren Island,
where each abo. over 18 was given 50 acres
on condition that he fenced it and erected
a suitable house. Alcohol was prohibited,
and it was hoped that this remnant of a
unique race would work out its own sal-
vation, untroubled by the temptations of
towns. Unfortunately, it has done nothing
of the sort. The settlement to-day is a
deplorable spectacle. The. shanties are of
the flimsiest, fences are non-existent, most
of the land is overrun by boxthorn, and not
a single patch has been cultivated. Many
of the children are said to be mentally
deficient. The settlers have never shown
the slightest initiative. In the winter the
men go mutton-birding, but for the rest
of the year they sit around waiting patiently
to join their black forefathers. There have
been numerous instances, such as the case
of the Kissarese in the Dutch East Indies,
where the mixing of white blood with
colored has raised the native above his
average: but stone-age heredity is appar-
ently winning in Tasmania.
*i* $
“Selma” : Quite a number of Diggers be-
fore they sailed away patched up old quarrels,
but one man who wrote a repentant letter
to his deserted wife in N.S.W. “just in
case,” stirred up a lot of trouble for him-
self. The lady didn’t bother to answer the
letter, but. she did send in her claim for
her share of his pay. The authorities re-
plied reproachfully that they couldn’t let
her have any, as it was all going to a wife
end two children in Victoria, whereupon the
N S.W- lady wrote tersely to the effect that
she was the only wife. The Victorian claim-
ant argued the point, and the harassed
officials asked both ladies to forward their
marriage certificates. The document duly
arrived from N.S.W., but the other consort
merely wrote tearfully that, berefit of the
allowance, she and her two infants would
be reduced to starvation. The Department
finally compromised by allotting two-thirds
of the money to the Victorian “wife,” while
the legal missus had to be content with one-
third. This was the last she heard of the
case except a note from her husband in
A JOINT AFFAIR.
“Congratulations on marrying the widow, dear boy! I suppose you've got a joint
banking account?”
“Oh, yes. She puts in and I take out.”
which he mentioned his intention of shoot-
ing her on his return. -As she is still unshot
and has since divorced him, she concludes
the matter is now absolutely finalised.
“Almora”: Heard a heated discussion re-
cently as to who was the last Australian
to leave Gallipoli. Many names were men-
tioned, without any agreement being arrived
at. General Lamrock awards the distinction
to General J. O. Paton, C. 8., prior to the
war a well-known merchant at Newcastle
(N.S.W.). Lamrock, who is now secretary
of the Moorefield Racing Club,, commanded
the 20th Battalion on the Peninsula. He
was a passenger by the last barge to leave
the shore, and is positive that. Paton was
the last to step on board. Paton was one of
the first men in Australia to enlist, and was
attached to the force that took Rabaul. lie
was at the landing at Gallipoli, and was
wounded in Prance.
“Iverys” : Quite a novel way
of making a home for a pros-
pective bride was adopted by a
foreigner resident in a Maori-
land township. His choice was
the daughter of a local farmer,
and the lady refused to marry
him until he could provide a
habitation for her. In a few 7
weeks he invited her to come
along and see the nest, and after
she had been shown a cosily-
furnished cottage in a somewdiat
lonely situation the marriage
took place. Simultaneously re-
ports of thefts of furniture,
books, pictures, bedding and
other goods wmre reported to the
local police. The discovery that
the missing things, and many
others, were in the lonely cot-
tage was accidental, a passing
rabbiter having recognised a
family rug airing on the line.
It broke up the happy home,
almost every family in the dis-
trict claiming some of the house-
hold goods. While awaiting trial
the home-maker managed to
escape, and has not been heard
of since.
“C.Q.”: Recent dismissals and resignations
from the staff of a Melbourne weekly, after
a visit by the managing director, had one
lighter moment. The departing victims were
being farewelled by the rest when one of
them shouted from the window. “Here comes
the managing-director’s carriage!” The
crowd rushed to look, some in hope of a
reprieve; but the carriage was only a
van driven by a collector of old bags and
labelled “Sack Merchant.”
“Der Jong”: The x'ecovery of one of the
Ypres bells, souvenired by a Canadian
soldier and long forgotten in an English
cellar, evokes memories of one of the after-
maths of the South African War, the return
of thousands of Bibles to their Boer owners.
These tomes, usually imposing in size and
get-up, almost always contained the entire
family pedigree as far back as. it was trace-
able, most of them having special tabulated
flyleaves for the purpose. When the Boers
came into the Empire fold a general appeal
was sent out for the return of these "curios,
and there was a gratifying response trom
Australia as well as other parts of the
Empire. I had a beauty myself, souvenired
from a farmhouse near Ermelo, with wontler-
ful steel plates—one of them depicting
Susannah and the Elders still lingers m the
memory. Some _ thieving hound pinched it
from my kitbag in Capetown, however, so 1
never got a chance to make the amende
honorable.
“Kyn" : When visiting Rhodesia, Frank
Tate, Vic.’s newly-returned Director of Edu-
cation, told the yarn of the Bishop of
Carpentaria who went swimming after hav-
ing been assured by his abo. boy that there
were no sharks about. Jacky, however, on
being invited to join liis boss in the water,
declined, giving as his reason that there was
“too much plurfy crocodile.” Tate’s yarn
was rather neatly capped by a S’African —
about a visitor to a mission station who,
accompanied by a local native, reached a
flooded stream. With a promise of the
equivalent of five bob, the traveller induced
the native to carry his clothes across on his
head while he himself waded across in
nature’s garb. On recounting his experience
at the mission station he was informed
quietly that 200 yards away from where ho
had crossed was a light footbridge well
known to the guide. The latter, not having
been asked about it specifically any more
than Jacky had been interrogated about the
crocs., let "the white man have his own way.
ONE DEAD CERT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I do not know why I was made, or why
the earth is round,
Or why of spiders I’m afraid, or the chemis-
try of sound.
I do not know how Einstein got his complex
theories;
Why iron’s hard and butter’s not, or what’s
the cause of fleas.
I don't know why I see and smell; wffiy men
and women kiss;
Why Shakspeare wrote so blooming well,
' and I such things as this;
But, getting down to copper tacks and the
burden of this lay,
I’m darned well sure my income-tax is more
than I can pay.
N.S.W.
HYRAM.
SOME PLACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A firm of implement makers in the U.S. wrote
to the Australian Trade Commissioner requesting
literature explaining ‘What place is Australia?’ The
letter added, ‘We would prefer the literature in
English; but if that is impossible, then send it
in your own language.’ ”
What place is Australia?
Why, nice and flossy,
Some place, believe me—
We call it “Aussie.”
Here dinkum blokes
(Wise guys, translated)
From Adam’s curse
Emancipated
Hold stop-work meetings
And do their block
(That’s “go all curdled”)
When urged by Jock.
We’ve timber and coal
For donkeys’ years:
But strikes and hold-ups
And frequent beers,'
And roaring Beds
On the Yarra’s banks
Conceal such facts
From inquiring Yanks.
We send you the skins
Of a million rabbits ;
Then buy them as furs
For our female Babbitts.
Our fauna? The dingbat,
The fierce goanna.
Our flora? The pear
And the puce lantana.
But pity the fate
Of the hapless blighter
Lured to his doom
By the lean earbiter.
His eye’s hypnotic,
His bite is fatal....
And this completes
Indigenes natal.
VICTORIA.
WAWHERESH.


“Cine Ma” : Recently the Commonwealth
Bank sent £1,000,000 in sovereigns to king-
land from its Melbourne branch. If the
movies are a criterion, such an operation
would have been attended with a vast deal
of ceremony had it been performed in any
American city. An armored car, a machine-
gun corps and a squad with gas equipment
would have been regarded as the bare mini-
mum. The Australian concern merely packed
the things in 200 commonplace boxes, loaded
them in two motor-vans and sent them to the
wharf without escort. They remained on the
wharf for one hour while some perishable
cargo was being loaded and were then hoisted
on board the Largs' Bay, the purser signing
a receipt in the usual manner. One volunteer
wharfie who helped handle the packages was
heard to remark that they seemed flaming
heavy, otherwise nobody had any suspicions.
* * * *
“Elsie Ghee” : She was a smartly-turned-
out and up-to-the-minute young flapper
walking down a Sydney street with a girl
companion. She was knee-skirted, cloche-
hatted, lip-salved and powder-tinted, and
sheer silk as to hose. But she wore only
one flesh-hued stocking and one high-heeled
black court shoe ; in place of the other limb
she had a peg-leg. No, not a lightweight
modern artificial leg clothed in silk and
kid to imitate the other, but a plain old-
fashioned peg brought right out of W. W.
Jacobs or Dickens! Evidently the victim
of an accident, she was not letting her
disability mar her cheery outlook on life
and fashion, and I couldn’t help admiring
her pluck.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: A woman who never knew
her husband’s address has turned up in the
N.S.W. Divorce Court. One afternoon she
casually married a man who she believed was
a horse-trainer; but he failed to keep an
appointment in the evening, and she nevfer
saw or heard of him again. Which recalls
that not long ago a Sydney police station
received a visit from a brand-new bride with
an amazing hard-luck story. She had mar-
ried that morning a man whom she knew
only as “Fred,” she declared, and had entirely
lost track of him. He had mentioned his
surname at the registry office but she had
forgotten it, and he had put the marriage
certificate in his pocket. The police were
a trifle sceptical, but a resourceful sergeant
decided that it would be only a fair thing
HE’D HOPED FOR THE WORST.
“Herbert has had such a disappointing life.”
“Has he? How?”
“Oh, he prayed that he wouldn’t be led into temptation, and his prayer was granted.”
to let the lady run her eye over the after-
noon’s drunks, and among these the missing
Fred w 7 as discovered, with the certificate
in his pocket-book. It transpired that, after
the ceremony and a few drinks in honor of
the occasion, the couple had gone to the
Botanical Gardens and dozed under a shady
tree. Waking up first, the ’groom had
decided to leave his sleeping beauty whilst he
slipped down to the First and' Last for
another drink; and thereafter he remembered
nothing.
* * * *
“Nakboda”: A Moslem female named
Kimal has provided an interesting parallel
to the career of the English man-woman
whose escapades in male attire recently
warmed the Cold Country. Miss Kimal
stole a peasant-boy’s clothes and ran away
from home in Baluchistan when she was
vetL She _workgd at various masculine
jobs and finally espoused the divorced wife
of a contractor on the Indian frontier. Like
the English example, her married life was
far from happy, and the ‘‘wife” eventually
ran away with a genuine male, Nothing
dafinted, Kimal sued for a divorce, but got
compensation instead. She was working as
a postman on an Indian train when bandits
attacked it and wounded the lady, so that the
doctors discovered her sex. Here the parallel
ends. She got a pension for her bravery
from the Government, and is now the heroine
of her native village. There is nothing in
the Koran under which she could be indicted.
Mohammed was more liberal to women than
is usually supposed. He merely directed
them not to rattle their ornaments unduly,
or show their unclothed bodies to persons
who were not their near relations.
* # * *
“C.Q.”: After considering various in-
genious suggestions, Vic. Ministry has de-
cided to call Melbourne’s new bridge at
Spencer-street Batman’s. It is 94 years since
the first settler on the Yarra landed on the
north bank just above the site of the struc-
ture which it has taken so long for Govern-
ments to build. It was actually John Pascoe
Fawkner who founded the city, however.
* * * *
“Shop” : With the gradual influx of Ger-
mans we may get both sides of the question
in some of the arguments on big stunts.
I was in a bar the other day where an
ex-Digger and a German merchant were
wetting a business deal. “Where did you
get that scar'/” the Digger asked the Ger-
man, who wore a jagged reminder of war
on one cheek. “At Pozieres, in front of
the Australians,” replied Fritz. “Well, I’m
damned,” came from the Digger. “I’d hate
to think I gave it to you, but, ’struth!
for all I know you might have fired the
squirt that skittled me when out on patrol
there.” I noticed the whiskies were tossed
down in silence, both men evidently re-
constructing the occasion when they had
collected their respective Blighty and Ber-
liner.
* # # :jc
“Sol M.”: The persistent Australian in-
dustry of being heir to immense and long-
mislaid fortunes has been rather slack of
late, though a man left here not long ago
to claim an earldom and another in search
of a baronetcy. Neither seems to have had
any luck, and one is said to have been sur-
prised and hurt at the cold reception he
received from the holder of the title. But
business has brisked up, for a number of
persons on the N.S.W. Northern Rivers are
in pursuit of £11,000,000, alleged to be loaf-
ing in Chancery with many other fortunes.
The rights of the present claimants are said
to come to them through Matthew James
Everingham, and of this person a daily paper
states that he reached Sydney in 1788 ; was
married by the Rev. Samuel Marsden in
1791, being then presumably grown up ; and
was district constable thereabouts, according
to the same or another authority, till 1877.
Furthermore, he was drowned in the Ilawkes-
bury in the 86th year of his married life
(unless there is something wrong in the
dates), while about to start for England to
claim his father’s property, which is now the
£11,000,000 in question. The deceased’s
family apparently remained torpid for 51
years, but it will be a poor family which
can’t explain that.
* * * if
“Spare Skeats” : At the risk of being cited
for contempt, I venture to disagree with
the N.S.W Judge who has been condemning
the word “cobber” as gutter slang. When
I was a boy the term was widely used in
western Queensland as a superlative, though
it was then generally pronounced as “cob-
bon” or “cobbawn,” a common abo. expres-
sion for anything extra-special. A “cobbawn
budgeree pfeller that one” was Jacky-Jacky’s
tribute when be got an extra stick of
tobacco or even a nip of rum from one of
his white overlords. It was freely adopted by
his white-fellow Australians, and “cobber”
Avas a colloquialism years before the A.1.F.,
who made it world famous, were thought
of. I never heard of the word being used
in the slum argot of thei big cities.
*** . *
“Morita”: Promotions were easily earned
by some (B. 26/6/’29). I remember one
Digger being raised to two-bar status chiefly
for extolling the virtues of a section C.O.
whom most of us regarded as slightly
“windy.” Invariably the loud-speaker was
selected to pilot his C.O. around the nightly
inspection of posts at Flers, wffiich enabled
him to relate hair-raising escapes to us on
his return, for the benefit of the chief, who
with brother-officers occupied the other end
of the dug-out separated from our boudoir
by an army blanket. After the fugleman
had been made a corporal in return for his
services, his nightly rambles ceased, and the
next night his duties were taken over by a
hard-head who did not aspire to rapid pro-
motion. He burst into the dug-out on his
return as though to continue the old ritual.
“He’s a game ’un, his nibs is ; he’ll do me,”
he roared for the benefit of all. “A few of
our shells went over, and ’e flops on his guts
in a muddy shellhole.” The candid one
didn’t get promotion. Next day he relieved
one of the crowd in the coldest and muddiest
post we occupied.
OTHERS BESIDES PA.
MRS. NORTH-KEW (doing the Cairns trip ): “That’s young Haw-
thorn with that girl! My word, if ever a boy owed every-
thing to his father, he does.”
MR ESSENDON (who is something in the city) : “Owes every-
thing to his father! Not a bit of it! Why, he’s borrowed
a tenner from me, for one!”
“Oran”: The enterprise of the man who
gold Primus stoves during the gas shortage
(B. 26/6/’29) had a dishonest parallel last
summer, when the bush-fires were raging
in Sydney’s outer suburbs. Two young
thieves commandeered a lorry loaded with
small ice-chests while the driver was cooling
himself with a pint in a city hotel, and,
driving full speed to the Bankstown district,
offered hot and smoke-dried householders ice-
chests at staggering reductions. Out of their
stock of 60 only 11 remained when the police
took up the trail, and, after an exciting
chase, managed to secure the waggon and
the unsold goods. The youths, sprinting
with the cash through the dense scrub of
the locality, got clear away.
$ $ $ $
“P.M.”: Re army doctors’ rank (B.
19/6/29), the title of Surgeon-General,
which was equivalent to Major-General, was
altered to the latter during the closing stages
of the war. Neville Howse, V.C., was the
only member of the A.I.F. affected by the
change.
* * * *
“C.A.8.”: Not only in Queensland are
stones from old-world cathedrals to be found.
In St. Christopher’s Convent, Canberra, may
be seen the beautiful brick which was the
keystone in the Holy Door at St. Peter’s.
Rome. This stone was placed in the Holy
Door at the close of the Jubilee Year, 1900,
by Leo XIII., and was removed therefrom
by Pius XI. at the opening of the Holy
Year, 1925. It was brought to Australia by
Dr. Cattaneo, the Apostolic Delegate, as a
gift from the Pope to the first Catholic build-
ing at Canberra.
¥ H* »f» «J*
“The Listening-Insect” : Melbourne Herald
wasted no time after the Government’s deci-
sion re the new broadeasting contract was
made known. It bought BDB, a station
hitherto inconspicuously running on the re-
venues of small advertisers. The Herald
policy is on the lines recently remarked on
in The Bulletin as having been successful
in America. A big concern will lease the
station for a night, and beyond the bare an-
nouncement of the fact will not intrude itself
into the entertainment further. Much of
the galaxy of talent which inhabited 3LO
lias moved over to the studio, and the new
proprietors promise a first-class programme,
including the engagement of distinguished
artists, who were so rarely in evidence at
the old address. A refreshing feature is that
seasoned Williamsonian comedian Arthur
Stigant as an announcer with a sense of
humor.
$
“Sea Nomad”: Thursday Island didn’t
overwhelm the German visitors on the Emden
with gush; the little island lost too much
sleep over the war to be more than polite.
Perhaps no part of Australia had better
reason to remember the war years. It was
the centre of the naval activity that guarded
our north-eastern and northern coasts and
the straits and passageways. At different
times, every T.I. civilian was under arms,
quite apart from the big percentage of men
who went overseas. The lads who are
generally in the Naval Reserve were soon
aboard craft of all descriptions, chasing
after reported raiders, sneaking up jungle-
clad New Guinea rivers in search of sus-
pected submarine bases, and spying the
steamer passageways through the reefs for
mines. And T.I. was kept at it right to
the very last. There was quite a lot of
work that obtained no publicity done ih
those reef-strewn waters, and quite a num-
ber of Australian-loaded ships were saved
from a wet grave by the unceasing vigilance
of T.I. men, who saw too much of enemy
methods to forget them readily.
“Meteren”: We marched out of the
Strazeele area on the day Divisional Staff
had decided to make one of their unadver-
tised inspections—not the usual parade-
ground march past, but a once-over by a few 7
brass-hats from behind haystacks and hedges,
their actual whereabouts being kept un-
known until the
C.O. should receive
a report that his
command passing
such - and - such a
paddock, specified
in Army Map, was
a disgrace to the
A.I.F. Every clique
o f Diggers had
adopted some starv-
ing canine mascot,
from poodles to
meat-hounds, and
the unit resembled a
hunting-pack, with
the C.O. astride his
charger cursing the
yelping mongrels
that formed our
advance guard. On
this occasion the
boss brass - hat
didn’t w r ait to sub-
mit a report; he
emerged from cover
to demand an ex-
planation. When
the mascots refused
to be separated
from their new
masters by a bar-
rage of stones, we
moved off again
amid mutterings
from the staff that
we’d hear more of
it. Within a few
minutes we were
halted again; the
tail of the proces-
sion had disclosed
to irate officialdom
a cow and two
goats contentedly
plodding along tied
to the water-carts.
These could be
separated from the
unit, and Brass-
hat made a present
of them to a Frog-
gie farmer. When
we hit our next
billets we did a week’s route-marching, with
full pack aboard, on the strength of H.Q.’s
report.
* * * *
“Nawatai”: Touching these war decora-
tions. In May, 1919, we were at Littlemoor
Camp, Weymouth, awaiting transport home,
when word came that Senator I’earce was
to inspect us and present a D.C.M. and two
M.M.’s which had been awarded to mem-
bers of our battalion. The Australian Min-
ister, it was added, would require the records
of the awards to recite at the ceremony. The
C. 0., who had recommended the distinctions,
had forgotten all the circumstances, and the
R.S.M. couldn’t remember anything to help
him out. The orderly-room sergeant was
called in to supply any information lie could,
but all that he knew was that I had done
the typing of the recommendations just after
the Armistice. Thereupon I was summoned
to the confab. “You did ’em, eh 7” said the
C.O. “Well, you type out three more of the
d —d things!” I did so, drawing on my
imagination for the details. The romances
were duly recited by the Senator, and every-
body was happy except the recipients. They
called me all the hard names in the A.I.F.
vocabulary.
❖ ❖ * ❖
“FY7”Unquestionably there is a dis-
tinction between the broccoli and its close
relation the cauliflower (B. 12/6/’29). As
a youngster in Western Queensland I had
plenty of chances of comparing the two, the
broccoli head being much darker than that
of the cauli., while it was inferior in flavor
and texture, though excellent eating. A
hardy plant, it was a favorite in station gar-
dens in those days, though it is many years
since I have seen it.
* * $ *
“Midford”: In Memoriam verse of the
sort one reads in the death columns is
seldom impressive and sometimes borders on
the ludicrous. Yet there are exceptions;
for simple pathos and compressed appeal
it would be hard to beat the single sentence
in which a Sydney suicide left his last
message the other day: “Good-bye, and God
forgive me for my sins.” Yet probably lie
didn’t mean it for an obituary notice and
didn’t know it was verse, and a genuine line
at that. Somehow, it had a familiar echo
and presently I remembered a fine passage
in Taylor’s “Philip Van Artevelde”:
Aye, Gilbert, God forgive thee for thy sins!
Thou steppest statelily the only path
Thou hast to take on earth. Full many a man
That lives a godlier life less bravely dies.
There is nothing to suggest wilful plagiar-
ism ; even an iambic pentameter just happens
sometimes.
# * * *
“Fusee”: General Hobbs told a meeting
of ex-service men in Perth on Waterloo Day
that two of the old howitzers guarding
Queen Victoria’s statue in King’s Park
were used at Waterloo. They are old
pot-shaped throwers of round bombs, which
were copied for trench fighting in the Great
War. But Hobbs would have been more con-
vincing if he had given chapter and verse
for his statement. In the old days that
type was used for firing from fixed positions
in siege and fortress work only, and
though there are plenty of references
to the horse gunners and the field artillery
in the series of actions which culminated
on June 18, 1815, I can find no mention of
the howitzer.
ST. KILDA ROAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where Autumn went like some tall, brown-
browed maid
Bearing a blossomy load,
Some goddess from enchanted ages strayed
Along St. Ivilda Road,
Beneath the tapestries, tall woven and high,
Of friendly, sun-flecked trees
That watch the restless streams of life go by
In tranquil companies.
The loose leaves fallen, yellow, red and
brown,
Sport of the keen wind’s scorn,
Beside the way go eddying, drifting down
Like withered dreams forlorn.
The dusk has twined a glittering chain of
light
Where late the sunlight glowed,
And surely Beauty walks with me to-night
Along St. Ivilda Road.
Yet even now my heart goes chill with pain
That late was lightly gay,'
Thinking of one who comes not home again
Along the wide highway;
But, with the night and starshine, keeps
wdth these
The secret, I suppose,
That summer missed among the new-
tressed trees,
And only winter knows.
VICTORIA.
a
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


.v '
.
Mi
ffl H
' « :
m
yy
mM
y s
m
A.- :;
■ I
-
ftlS
; •■'
' '
sgagflii
I
a'%
m
m
mm
rararai
mm
H
:
if!
a
H
nt
■ - KHH
m
■ . ■;
n
m
H
' :
'
H
&
IBllSilsliSSSi?
H
. n
1
H
nv
:
' - ; ■•••■
"v \, >«*..■ , 111 1i H?
.
GUARANTEED MADE BY
EASTMAN NODAR C°.Y
Important Announcement!
FREE TO SMOKERS
of
“ Vice Regal” Cigarettes,
“Three Castles” Cigarettes,
“Capstan ’’(Oval) Cigarettes,
“Player’s” Cigarettes,
“Country Life” Cigarettes,
15’s Packets and 50’s and 100’s Flat Tins
15’s Packets and 50’s and 100’s Flat Tins
25’s, 50’s and 100’s Flat Tins
18’s Packets
15’s and 50’s Tins
A No. 2 Cartridge Hawk-Eye Model “C ”
CAMERA
(Guaranteed made by the Kodak Company)
This Camera is finished in handsome black leatherette, fitted with view finder, is daylight loading, and
takes excellent pictures inches. TO OBTAIN THE CAMERA colled the Coupons now
enclosed in any of the above well-known brands of Cigarettes, and when you have colleded 100, write
your na m e and address plainly on a piece of paper and enclose with Coupons and bring or forward to
W. D. & H. O. WILLS (Australia) LTD.
KENT & BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
411-423 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Or Cnr. MURRAY & MILLIGAN STS., PERTH.
who in' return will present' you with the Camera as advertised.
COUPONS NOT REDEEMABLE AFTER 30th JUNE, 1930.
START COLLECTING NOW!
and forward as soon as you have the requisite number.


SPECIAL VALUE IN DIAMOND RINGS
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd., offer outsdnding value in diamond rings—-perfect-
quality gems, in hand-fashioned settings at bedrock prices.
Quality is assured because diamonds are carefully chosen and purchased
direct from the Cutters, and mounted in 18ct. gold and platinum rings in
Fairfax & Roberts own workrooms. Prices are bedrock because, by buying
gems direct, wholesalers’ profits are eliminated.
Illustrated Catalogue post free on request.
£3O
im*
£lO/10/-
£lO/10/-
£l5/15/-
£3O
£22/10/-
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD
•I
The Oldest Jewellery 23-25 HUNTER STREET.
Plain Figures.
SPECIFIED BY ENGINEERS FOR ITS
UNFAILING RELIABILITY
“MANGROVITE” LEATHER
or RAW-HIDE BELTING
Specially selected Australian Ox-
hides, scientifically tanned by an
exclusive process that preserves
the natural grain and character of
the leather, ensure a wonderful
life of service for Mangrovite
Belting.
Consult our engineers without obligation on any matter relating
to power transmission.
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.,
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director,
aq YORK STREET fWYNYARD SQUARE), SYDNEY.
*y~
m
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Provided the new Senate agrees, John
Newlands’s jovial face will peep out from
the President’s wig for another three years.
Not in the best of health, Newlands let it
be known a few months ago that he would
retire at the end of June. H'is health has
improved, and if he is wanted he will carry
on. The difficulty in the way is an under-
standing that Senator Walter Kingsmill,
who was President of the Westralian Leg.
Council, would get the job.
C. M. McDONALD, who is fighting the
case for the Northern coalmine-owners
before the Commission. He is the
most outstanding man at present in
the service of any organisation of either
employers or employees in Australia.
Kingsford Smith and his companions have
made a dazzling reply to their detractors.
In one hop of 22 hours they flew their South-
ern Cross from Sydney to Derby, North
Westralia, 2070 miles; on another of 20
hours —flying blind, for the most part, the
weather being bad —they reached Singapore,
2020 miles. They rested for about 33 hours
in between. A brilliant achievement, beyond
all question; and the non-stop flight from
Australia to the Asiatic continent is with-
out precedent. It is a very apposite warning
to Bruce that this is no time for gravely
weakening the fighting forces.
Inspector-General Harry Chauvel hurried
to Canberra to. tell Defence Minister Glas-
gow what he thought of the proposed cutting
down of the Defence estimates. Both are
Queenslanders and old regimental mates.
When the First Q.M.L. left for the Boer War,
Chauvel, then a captain, was adjutant, and
Glasgow a subaltern in command of a troop.
Chauvel remained in the permanent forces,
and Glasgow returned to civil life, to follow
the drum again when the Great War broke
out. Chauvel rose to command the greatest
cavalry force in history. Glasgow jumped
from the leadership of a Light Horse regi-
ment on Gallipoli to leadership of the First
Division in France.
A memory kept by a pressman of Father
Dunne, who has celebrated his jubilee as a
priest, is of the padre exchanging badinage
with an equally jovial parson at an agri-
cultural show luncheon. Their quips enter
tained the whole table, and Dunne rounded
off the proceedings by giving a recitation
(“by request”) in a fine brogue. H'e has
been an identity at Campbelltown (N.S.W.)
for 43 years, and nearly everybody in the
place was at his jubilee banquet.
Macfarlan, Attorney-General for Vic.,
smiled on a unique deputation the other day.
It came from the Heidelberg Shire Council
and appealed for protection from one of its
ratepayers, R. F. Mil Jane. Millane has the
reputation of being the State’s most per-
sistent litigant. Some years ago he got per-
mission to build a house in the swell suburb
of Ivanhoe. He started to build it of kero-
sene-tins, and continued until the exasper-
ated Council pulled it down. Since then he
has served the Council with 258 documents,
and caused it to pay £340 in costs.
Master-mariner Milford McArthur, harbor-
master at Hobart, is retiring after 42 years’
service, tie made an early start as a shell-
back, as he was born aboard his father’s
ship off Milford Sound (M L.). He had no
experience of steam till the big overseas hulls
made Hobart a port of call; all the same, he
earned a reputation for his skilful handling
of these ships, and closed his career without
any mishaps in steam or sail. Politician-
knight Jack Evans was a schoolfellow.
Commonwealth Solicitor-General Bob Gar-
ran is one of the few highly-placed civil ser-
vants who have settled into the life of Can-
berra. He is president of the Arts and Litera-
ture Society, which (with Dr. Nott, ex-M.P.,
as producer) has put on several plays ; is pre-
s dent also of the Public Service Tennis
Association, chairman of the tribunal which
deals with erring players of the Australian
game of football, apd is mixed up in all
sorts of local movements except those with
a political tinge. In his spare time his tall
form can be seen striding round the golf
links, and sometimes he lectures —it may be
on Heine’s poems. He is due for retirement
under the age limit in about four years, and
swears he won’t leave ’Berra.
Hubert Carter, for years Consul for
France in Queensland, can now sign him-
self Chevalier of the Legion of Honor. Bris-
bane born, and educated at Brisbane Gram-
mar School, he smelt cordite in South Africa
as a captain in the sth Q. 1.8., and was
severely wounded. Thirteen years later, he
was wounded again on Gallipoli, and in-
valided home with the rank of major. An
insurance man in civilian life, he has done
a lot for the R.5.5.1.L..
Vic. Uppish House has a pair of the
Chosen again. Since the death of Joe
Sternberg, 19 months ago, it has had to
get on with one—Henry Cohen, K.C., who
has been Minister for Education since
November. Now it has acquired Harold
Cohen. The Assembly has no Jewish mem-
ber. It could do well with an Isaac Isaacs.
Archbishop Riley, of Westralia, went to
his grave with the mystery of his son Basil’s
disappearance in China, which clouded his
last years, still unsolved. Young Riley was
killed while doing newspaper work in one
of the regions of the Civil War. It was
never settled whether he was killed by
peasants for his money or by soldiers. The
local military owed allegiance to the allegedly
Christian General Feng; but shortly after
the Westralian Rhodes Scholar had been
reported missing Feng moved out and an-
other generalissimo of bandits moved in,
so the matter was allowed to drop.
N S.W. Rhodes Scholar lan Edwards is
a young man of many interests. He has
edited ll'ermes, the Sydney Uni. mag.;
shone as an inter-Varsity debater, served
on a host of committees and won an honors
B.A. in Philosophy. In sport, he is a first-
grade footballer and cricketer and a Dunn
Shield athlete. He goes to Oxford shortly;
meanwhile he is a teacher at the Clevcland-
street school. "
Major Cohen, who is described in the
cables as “a conspicuous participant in the
procession of peace enthusiasts to West-
minster Abbey” last week, is a Sydneyite
on both sides. One grandfather was Sam
Cohen, M.L.C., and the other L. W. Levy,
M.L.C. Cohen is M.P. for a Liverpool
division in which his father has a business.
He lost both legs in the war, but has never
let it interfere with either business or
pleasure. Patrons of West End restaurants
and theatres are accustomed to the spectacle
of the cheerful ex-soldier being carried by
a herculean servant; to his seat at table
or to a theatre-stall.
Alfred Howard, who goes with the Maw-
son expedition as chemist, graduated from
MelbQurne Uni. only last year. He has
crammed a lot of brilliant scholarships into
his 21 years, and is a State-school product,
having learnt pothooks at Camberwell.
Harold Cohen, who won the late Norman
Faikiner’s Melbourne South Province seat in
the Leg. Council, went to Egypt in 1916 in
joint command (with Lieut.-Colonel Warren)
of a sh : pload of reinforcements. He returned
as C.Q. the 6th (Mobile) A.F.A. Brigade,
and he has made a
hobby of peace
soldiery since.
Cohen did well at
the war, where he
collected a C.M.G.
and D.S.O. He is
a solicitor, and
with his father,
Montague Cohen,
controls as much
Melbourne money
as any man.
Perth knows him
affectionately as
“OLD TOM”
MOLLOY, one of
Us oldest and
richest men. He
was twice Mayor
of the city, and
the artist has
found him engaged
at his favorite
pastime of crack-
ing peanuts.
Mat Charlton has improved greatly in
health and spirits since he retired last year,
leaving the Hunter seat to the burly James
and the leadership of the Labor party to
worried little Scullin. Bowls, gardening,
the home life lie so much missed throughout
his political career, and yarns with old-
timers have made a new man of him. Charl-
ton was a prominent Miners’ Federation
official before he entered Parliament, and
steady-going coalies would rejoice if he be-
came a power in the organisation once more.
Certainly his vote would be for peace.
Arthur Joseph Goodwin, who died lately
at Launceston, was the last original director
of the Lefroy mine (Tas.). Gold was first
discovered on the surface by J. T. Stubs
(still hale and living at Launceston) and
the late William Porter. The Lefroy, other-
wise New Pinafore, paid £Bl,OOO in divi-
dends, and there is still about £5OO to the
co.’s credit somewhere in a bank. The
gold petered out —little was got below 300 ft.
—and Lefroy is now a poor skeleton.
Presented his last balance-sheet for Final
Audit, David Barclay, the Speck’s best-
known banker. David Barclay followed his
equally famous elder brother, Charles, as
managing director of the Commercial of Tas.
when Charles died in 1904, and continued
to announce the annual dividend until 1924;
then the solid little show was sold to the
E., S. and A. “King” David used his free-
dom to frolic with his numerous grand-
children and amble cheerfully about the
streets of his native city; but recently one
of his free legs suddenly snapped, and a
few days of confinement closed the discussion.
A fine son (also David) was killed with the
Light Horse in Egypt; another son died
in India; the only remaining son lives in
Melbourne. There are seven daughters.
T. J. McConnell, assistant accountant of
Vic. Lands Department, who passed out the
other day after a brief illness, was one of
the State Government’s most brilliant men
in his particular field. He seemed to be cut
out for Auditor-General. He was only 44,
and a widow and three young children mourn
him.
The Hon. George Peel, who is coming to
Australia to try to solve the deadlock be-
tween the Commonwealth and the wireless-
cable crowd, knows this country already.
In 1904, together with a co-director of his
company, he made a grand tour of all the
cable-stations in Australasia to see if
economies could be effected. The interesting
pair thought it would be nice to drop in
on the boys at La Perouse (N.S.W.) for
tea, but tlie message announcing their com-
ing went astray. A sleep-sozzled youth in
singlet and drawers answered the door;
having had it explained to him that the
visitors were not commercial travellers,' he
volunteered the information that the rest of
the staff had gone to Sydney for the day.
After that, Sydney leave was cut down to
once a week. Peel’s tour resulted in a book
on Imperial politics, which had a great in-
fluence on the Conservative opinion of his
day.
The case of L. H. Botten, who spent
a day or so in Coburg gaol for refusing
to produce the minute-books of the S.
Aus. Dried Fruits Board to Justice Starke,
has set old-timers recalling previous Mel-
bourne occurrences of the kind. Thirty-five
years ago the Evening Standard published
the proceedings of a grand jury summoned
to decide whether or not the heads of a
financial institution should have a true bill
filed against them; the manager was held
guilty of contempt and imprisoned for three
days. Five years afterwards the publishers
of the Age ' and the Australasian were
summoned to the bar of the Leg. Assembly
for having printed and commented upon
the findings of a select committee before
the report was presented to the House. They
were ordered to be committed to Melbourne
Gaol, but the House relented and made the
penalty £lOO each. Under an ancient rule,
the cash went into the pockets of the
Sergeant-at-Arms, now dead.
A fine old ecclesiastic is Dr. W. F. Tucker,
Dean of Ballarat. His first field on arriving
from England 47 years ago was in Queens-
land. Very tall and athletic, he was a
noted amateur with the gloves in his college
days, and his oratory is fluent and polished.
He it was who turned James Scullin's
thoughts to politics. There were frequent
debates in Ballarat between the men’s
societies of the R.C. and Anglican churches,
and the Archdeacon (as he was then) noted
Scullin’s talent. Walking homewards one
night he gave the youth some sage advice
about - the value of study and the oppor-
tunities available in political life for young
men of ability. Since then the tall dean,
though at the opposite pole in political
thought, has watched his diminutive friend’s
upward career with a sympathetic interest.
W. A. Callaway, who used to be an Under-
secretary in Victoria, found himself on
familiar ground when he accompanied a
deputation to Chief Secretary Argyle to
urge that cremation should receive Govern-
ment support—he is secretary of the Cre-
mation Society. Argyle’s greeting of Calla-
way was very cordial. Another speaker
having had a long innings, the Minister
asked his old friend to “have a heart.” With
a touch of the cynicism for which he used to
be noted, the former permanent head com-
plied. He was as brief as if he were dic-
tating a cablegram.
The scythe-bearer has been busy among
more prominent Vic. teachers, present and
past. Surrey Hills has lost Harry Brown,
a first-class man; he died suddenly in har-
ness, as also did James Weddell, ex-president
of the Teachers’ Union, at Geelong. And
Edward Box, lately a leading master at
South Melbourne, has said a final good-bye
to his host of teacher-friends. His son was
private secretary to Andrew Fisher in Lon-
don.
“Old Warden” : There was a grin among
old Papuan hands in Sydney the other day
when it was announced that Bill Parke had
pegged out a coal area in the Newcastle
(N.S.W.') district, and was holding it against
all comers. He is one of the best known of
the old-time Papuan prospectors, and came
into his kingdom when he got on to good
gold on the Bulolo and succeeded in keeping
his find dark until he had cleaned up a for-
tune. What started him on his coal stunt
Heaven only knows.
H. E. SIZER, Queensland’s new Minister
for Labor and Industry.
“Sucker”: Early this century some of
the boys at the Rockhampton (Q.) Grammar
School gave a picnic, to which they invited
some of the girls from the sister school.
The boys were brought by a master, T. J.
Ryan, afterwards Premier of the State and
leader of the Federal Labor party. The
girls were under the care of a mistress,
Miss Irene Bayley, now Mrs. Longman,
M.L.A. I was among the boys, and one of
the girls became my wife. Our eldest son
is now old enough to begin training for a
profession. We must make him a politician.
WILLIAM MACLEOD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
His was the heart that would not faint or
fail.
Steadfast, serene, he climbed the steep
ascent,
Conquered the peaks; then down into the
vale
Of the full years toward the long, last trail
Serene he went.
Not greatness, but an honored name to leave
Was his, who passes with the lingering
glow
That sunset prints upon a winter eve,
One none who ever knew but needs must
grieve
No more to know.
Goodwill—a rarer gift than all the rest
The gods allot —was his. As friend to
friend,
Helper and counsellor, or host to guest,
From his unfailing store he gave his best
Unto the end.
His was the heart that never, failed respond
To human call. And here a line I grave
In memory of many a binding bond
Beyond the severance of the Great Beyond:
Gifted he gave.
N.S.W.
ANDREE HAYWARD.


MARy HAD A LITTLE LAMB,
Its fleece was white as snow,
She made her stockings with the wool.
And under-things,you know.
When MARy went one dav to school
with SKIP AND MERRY LAUGH,
The Boys all looked with shining EyES
To SEE SHE HAD A CALF.
And soon she wrapped it up in silk;
So SLIM IT MADE HER LOOK
That all the woolies she had worn
For "arto" she forsook.
FfeONT HEAD TO Toe ITS ALL. SHE WEARS,
And tvlAPys Little lamb
STill grows a fleece ) But soon, My dear.,
It wont be worth a damn.
SAD CASE OF AN UNDERVALUED SHEEP.
"Largely because of the change of fashion in women's clothes, Australia will receive this year probably £15.000,000 loss for it's wool than it got last year, and next
year's cheque can easily be £30,000,000 smaller."
Poverty
Point
“Listinsect”: The other evening our radio
announcer said, in that thrilling voice of his,
“To-night’s great thought: ‘Out of the muck
and mud of things, something beautiful
always sings.’ ” Then he added, “Our next
item will be the Radio Roysterers, who will
render ‘Take a Dunk of a Hunk of Sponge
Cake.’ ”
“T.P.”: A recent Poverty Pointer takes
very mildly the insults heaved at Australia
by some of our showmen. In one ex-
pensive Melbourne picture-house the made-
in-Australia portion of the films the night I
was present was rattled through after the
advertisements, lights all up, no music and
the audience in disorder. In another the
end of the show was announced on the
screen, and patrons were informed that if
they wished to see the Australian stuff they
could remain. The land of the Almighty
Dahlar very rightly jumps on this sort of
thing with both feet. Pity Australians have
not sufficient backbone to put the boot m,
too !
“Lamia”: During Pavlova’s recent tour of
this part of the world (Malaya) a Cine-
Ivodak amateur held up one of the per-
formances for about 20 minutes. Without
any kind of permission he stood in the wings
and began to make a movie. When Pav.
spotted him she left the stage, and the audi-
ence had to wait while she denounced the
enthusiast. She was annoyed enough at his
photographing her without her sanction, but
the greatest objection was that lie was photo-
graphing her from the side. An audience,
of course, never sees her from that angle
unless she wishes it.
“C.”: Dion Boucicault, who has had his
last curtain at a shade over 70, was still
acting better than most during his final sea-
son in Australia, which closed early this
year. He had had just half a century on
the boards, which he first trod in New
York, 1879. A year later he was at the
London Gaiety, and at 26 he visited this
part of the world with the elder Dion. He
liked Australia well enough in the following
vear to enter into a partnership with Robert
Brough which lasted 10 years. He next
saw Australia in 1923, with his wife, Irene
Vanbrugh, and then again last year.
“Peter Pan” : There are remarkable simi-
larities in “Dracula” (Sydney Palace) and
“The Power of the Cross” (Newtown Majes-
tic). In “Dracula” the vampire is a Hun-
garian count (Ashton Jarry) ; in the other
a Dalmatian count (Victor Fitzherbert).
The actors are the tallest pair in Sydney.
The same religious theme runs through each
play; there is the same talk of taking the
forms of animals. A doctor appears in each
trying to solve the mystery and wondering
at the marks on the heroine’s neck, and why
she is becoming so pale. And there are also
sacred emblems which thwart the vampire’s
power, and other resemblances. <
“Hamfat”: As a producer, just-dead Dion
Boucicault carried artistry to the limits of
pernicketiness; his exactions almost drove
his property-men mad. On one occasion,
after Props had spent a whole day searching
for a tea-service of the exact specifications
given by Boucicault, the actor manager in-
sisted upon the search being started again
because the cups were not of the precise
shade of blue that he required. He permitted
no skimping of production either. When
producing “What Every Woman Knows” he
insisted upon sufficient supers, being engaged
to entirely fill the scene for the election
gathering.
"“Cine Ma”: Although this is claimed to
be Pavlova’s farewell visit, she may be back
again anon, in shadow shape at any rate.
Yielding to arguments that have been fired
at her for years, she permitted an Austra-
lian cinematographer to film a few move-
ments at His Majesty’s recently. If she is
satisfied with the result a whole ballet will
be photographed.
“Smod”: The Chang-Eng Siamese twins
were not the only ones in the show business
(B. 12/6/’29). Violet and Daisy Hilton, who
were born at Brighton in England in 1909,
are at present on exhibition in America.
They are united by tissue at the. lower end
of the back. They are pretty girls and
accomplished musicians, and, their bond being
flexible, are able to face each other.
“Fauteil” : It is stipulated in the £53,000
will left by the father of Ray Whiting,
enthusiastic amateur actor-author-producer-
artist-musician, that no legatee shall engage
in any occupation involving appearances on
any stage or at any theatre. Ray was a
leading member of the old Melbourne Reper-
tory crowd, and later produced and acted in
“The High Road” for charity. He was also
one of the authors of “The Patchwork
Revue,” which was presented for a week at
His Majesty’s. ..
“Jaykay”: Though, as “Crank On” says
(B. 12/b/’29), movie stars have always
spoken their lines even in silent pictures,
they have not as a rule directly faced the
high-powered studio lamps while doing so.
The much greater percentage of “close up”
work necessary in talkies would make the
effect of the destructive rays more apparent,
and might easily account for the tonsil com-
plaint mentioned earlier by “Cine Ma.”
“Craiser” : Ben Fuller’s high ideals obvi-
ously needed the outlet which the new broad-
casting contract will give them. Ihexorable
necessity has compelled him, no doubt with
the most intense sorrow, to forget them as
far as his own theatres are concerned. The
forthcoming attractions for those academies
of art include “Billie” and “The Merry
Malones,” two George M. Cohan successes
from N’Yoik.; and “Funny Face,” for which
George Gershwin wrote the music.
“L. de R.”: Undaunted by their Tas-
manian experiences, Beresford Fowler and
his new professional repertory co. shortly
propose to embark on a rural offensive, cul-
minating in seasons in Adelaide and Sydney.
If Fowler takes a good male lead with him
and confines himself to producing, at which
he is apt enough, the enterprise may pay its
way; his acting is his worst enemy. Fowler
provided something unique in theatrical pub-
licity when he returned from the Speck. H'e
set up a poster in Collins-street appealing
for assistance for flood relief victims, the
victims being Beresford Fowler and company.
There were some grounds for the manoeuvre,
as much of the country was under water
when he visited it, and, in addition, philan-
thropists were offered an evening with Ibsen
in return for their donations.
“Hayband”: I am not worried by my
failure to impress “F.S.” (B. 12/6/’29) with
my par. about the Melbourne critics who
criticised the programme instead of the per-
formance. Even though, as he says, a critic
is a cathedral organist, he may make a
mistake. Sullivan, of the immortal part-
nership, heard Melba, and suggested a place
in the chorus. He played an organ!
“Hamfat”: Sydney Playbox’s next bill will
be “The Good Hope” of Herman H'eijerman.
The thing has not yet been seen in Aus-
tralia, but was played in England and
America by Ellen Terry with such support
as Matheson Lang, Harcourt Williams,
Beatrice Forbes Robertson, Godfrey Tearle
and Nigel Playfair. There is an intensely
dramatic third act in which a group of fish-
ing-village women, all of whom have lost
menfolk in gales and now have sons and
sweethearts out on the seas, talk together
whilst a storm rages.
“C.W.”: Caesar’s Ghost” says .(B.
19/6/’29) that Louis Bennison was particu-
larly bitter when Leon Gordon was selected
as the lead in “Tea for Three” after Benni-
son had played lead with Margaret Lawrence
at the beginning of the season. Gordon did
not play in “Tea for Three” with Margaret
Lawrence, nor did Margaret Lawrence play
in it while in Australia. Gordon, however,
was lead to Judith Anderson during a pro-
duction of that comedy. As a matter of
fact, Gordon was abroad while Margaret and
Louis were here.
“Stellsby”: The failure of virtuosi who
have visited Australia in recent years to
win out financially, exposed by “Cine Ma
(B. 12/G/’29), arises from the fact that
music is no longer part of the education of
youth. Nowadays youngsters are taught to
play only the gramophone, so it cannot be
expected that persons other than old-
fashioned folk like myself, who all had some
sort of musical training, will sit and listen
to a Willie Murdoch strumming on a piano
or an Erica Morini scraping a fiddle for
nearly three hours. Concertgoers are like
lovers of the drama’ —a dwindling race.
“Macann”: They believe in giving plenty
for your money in Sydney Empire musi-
comedy shows. The present one, “Whoopee,”
has one scene which, opening in a setting of
Bar M Ranch, becomes at once a lavish
dress parade, which turns into a dance of
swirling tambourines. Then femininity van-
ishes, and along the river at the back comes an
Indian in native rig and a canoe. On the
heels of this dramatic entry steps broad
comedy, then the action goes by turn into
melodrama, farce and pantomime, after
which it apparently sees the joke and turns
into a burlesque of itself. The color of
dress stuffs and lights, the music and the
musicomedy itself are all merely incidentals.
All that multiplied by six makes only half
the bill.
“Barney”: At the Melbourne State
Theatre the other night the National Anthem
was played before the show began and hon-
ored by all standing. After the show the
audience had to stand and listen to the same
tune once more. In these days of canned
music the orchestras must play something.
“Colanne”: Pleas for more reverence for
the National Anthem arise with spasmodic
regularity, but it remains in general
the signal to grab wraps and make a dash
for the exit. Nevertheless, one whole Queens-
land city, Bundaberg, subscribed to reform
and did its King-saving at the beginning of
programmes instead of the end. It arose
from a plea by the State R.5.5.1.L.A.,
backed strongly by the local press. For
strangers it was one of the sights of the
place to see a packed picture audience rise
and stand for the anthem before the first
film was screened. In its way it was mag-
nificent, for it made the anthem what it
seldom is—impressive.
“Maski”: Has anyone ever had the enter-
prise to start an all-comedy picture-show V
Every week I see good comedies chopped
off after a couple of reels, just when the
players are getting into their stride. The
idea apparently is that the only thing worth
spending money on the serious story
with heart-throbs in ft. That might be the
United States taste, but is it the Australian?
SEE AND HEAR!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have heard the talkies chatter
Of a hundred different things,
And they mostly didn’t matter
So there’s little of it clings ;
But you’ll find me still returning
With a strained, attentive ear,
Till they satisfy my yearning
With one thing I want to hear.
And it’s not a lover's sighing
Nor a tenor’s golden note,
And it’s not defiance flying
From a Mussolini’s throat;
Fancy fairly fails me, expectation baulks;
But i badly want to be there when the Wild
West talks!
I have heard with grim appraisal
A comedian once mute,
And the lisping rather nasal
Of a “baby doll” so “cute” ;
But —I’ve watched the lips a-moving
Of a “bad-man” talking free,
And I want a chance of proving
If they’re saying what I see.
So it’s not the lover’s spooning,
And it’s not the singing rare,
And it’s not the cultured crooning
Of a savant here and there;
All I’ve seen has thrilled me, all I guess
dismays—
Oh, I surely want to hear just what the
Wild West says.
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


Mr. JIM
GERALD
before he
cured his
cold with
Heenzo.
lilllilßlil
■
Hi
Mi
:■•
m
............... ......i
: : 1
HI
1
11118
■
JHHI
iliiii#
Bums
m
M
: • '8
BBS
Vi
HH
.- . ~; : : :
•V- ■•
Mi
:
HEENZO costs 21-
Makes a family supply
of the best Cough and
9 Flu remedy, and
SAVES £V


e
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directora: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD.
Total Assets exceed . . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2. In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
i Association and no deduction maue num ui - , . , , , . ,
(4i In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
tt E mTWW . t Applications for Agencies invited from men o/ integrity. f.ruce SMITH, General Manager,
n. H*. BIDEN, Secretary.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
flrcii Majesty’s . “The Desert Song
Criterion (com. -Saturday) .. “The Perfect Alibi’’
Royal “The Flying Squad
Palace “Dracula’
Tivoli Vaudeville
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
His Majesty’s “The Five-o’clock Girl
Royal Sir Harry Lauder
Kino’s “The Wrecker”
Tivoli Vaudeville
jj oyt i 8 Movies and Talkies
State ...' Movies and Talkies
Dusolina Giannini won her first Austra-
lian audience almost the moment she stepped
on to the Sydney Town Hall stage on Satur-
day night. It reouired only her singing of
the few lines of Handel’s “Sommi Dei” to
complete the triumph forecast _ by the
attractiveness of her nervously-smiling per-
sonality. After that first burst of song she
was completely at home; sang w r ith assur-
ance through a programme which tested and
revealed the great power and- beauty of her
voice, her gifts of dramatic and lyric expres-
sion, her phrasing, her judgment and alto-
gether her claims to be classed as one of the
finest singers heard on the concert platform
in Sydney for many years. She was given
a fitting reception by the crowd which, in
spite of wholly unpleasant weather, filled
the comfortless hall.
The singer’s most important and impres-
sive offering was the “Vissi d’Arte” aria
from “Tosca,” in which she gave a thrilling
display of control in emotional crises. No-
thing to be quite compared with it has been
heard during the present concert season, and
the hope that she might manage a like flight
of glorious singing would be ample excuse for
anyone’s attending all the rest of her reason-
ably long list of engagements. Exquisite, too,
was her rendering of lighter pieces, Don-
audy’s “O del Mio Amato Ben,” “In Mezzo
al Mar” and “Fa La Nanna Bambin,” and
also her still lesser English group, which in-
cluded Forge’s “The Crucifix,” Cole’s “When
I Love You” and Homer’s “Sing to Me,
Sing.” The very popular “O Sole Mio” and
“Annie Laurie” were two of the highly
successful encore numbers.
Giannini is admirably assisted by Molly
Bernstein, who, in addition to accompanying
intelligently, is a perfect foil in her rather
fragile appearance to the singer’s striking
dark-Italian type. The other assistant,
violinist Sol Deutch, is a pleasant player
who adds an acceptable blend of variety to
MARY McGREGOR, with “The Flying Squad” at Sydney Royal.
the entertainment. The three artists com-
bined in giving the National Anthem at the
end, and miraculously made of it a reverent
and beautiful item.
To-morrow (Thursday) night Giannini
gives her third concert, with the fourth on
Saturday and the next on Tuesday. There
will be a special matinee on July 11.
* * *
The umpteenth edition of Sir Harry
Lauder in his world-famous act. “Absalootely
Ma Final Farewell,” was published at Mel-
bourne Royal on Saturday night and
attracted a small (wee) but thoroughly
appreciative house (ho.pse).
S’Harry has this paper’s commiserations.
Thousands of dull dogs have been busy
during the last 25 years filching his ideas, so
that the great Scottish realist comes on the
stage largely to do battle against the ex-
traordinary suspicion of plagiarising himself.
Lauder’s comedy is as definitely true art as
the comedy of Frith, George Gee and such-
like brothers of the slapstick is not. That
it does not receive much attention nowadays
is the fault neither of Lauder nor of the age.
When a new Lauder arises he will be received
with spontaneous regard, and will no doubt
retire with a fortune, a castle and a handle
to his name.
V V
The musical renaissance in Melbourne con-
tinues in full blast. On Saturday night,
at the Town Hall, Bernard Heinze, for his
third “celebrity concert,” threw Brailowsky
and Madam McArden to a vast sea of audi-
ence, which, unable to fully accommodate
itself on the seats supplied, sent a spray or
upturned faces against the walls. When
Brailowsky played the solo role in the
Tschaikowsky Concerto in B flat minor the
sea became one huge attentive ear, and
when he finished it resolved itself into a
vast collective pair of hands that insis-
tently clapped for more.
Madame McArden, the tawny-haired,
attractive Dutch prima donna whom the
Professor recently imported for the Umver-
sity school, released in Wagnerian numbers
a clear bell-1 ke soprano slightly deficient,
in the conventional frowns and daggers of
operatic drama but bright and colorful. She
sang in French, German and Hungarian,
and got double encores for all.
The orchestra’s chief part in the pro-
ceedings was a rendering of Dtmrak’s “New
World” symphony, a work whose length is
considerably greater than its depth. A cap-
able sub-editor might have condensed it down
to the enchanting slow second movement
without doing much harm, for Dvorak wrote
Me <yv>p(i"”v in' 1898. and the America of
that time does not seem to have filled him
with anything much deeper than a vague
Rotarian optimism and a desire to blow
off steam. But the second movement, being
merely a bit of generalised scenery, is as
lovely as a landscape by Hilder, and can
be enjoyed in the same passive way. The
orchestra’s rendering was delightful except
on the occasions when it was out of tune.
* * *
The Melbourne Office Flapper on Organs:
I went to the first official playing of the
new Town Hall organ the other morning.
Of course, The
Bulletin’s regu-
lar musical critic
ought to have gone,
but he asked me to
go for him. He
doesn’t like organs.
1 mean, he doesn’t
mind them musi-
cally so much, but
they have unplea-
sant associations
for some people. I
mean, he is a mar-
ri e d man with
seven children. So
I said I would go
and hear it, and I
had no difficulty in
hearing it either.
I mean, a new
organ seems to be
like a new car—it
needs running in or
something. Well,
dear cdd Dr. Price
played it. Mr.
Banterman, at the
State, does his hair
better, and appears
and disappears
down a tube after
each irem, and has
other advantages,
but a gentleman at
the Town Hall told
me Dr. Price is a
better musician.
Well, when the
doctor sat down at
the little console
and pulled out the
stops and pressed
some keys, I won-
dered whether
Wellington oughtn’t
to have been warn-
ed, because the
people over there have only just re-
covered from one earthquake. Well, Dr.
Price played the “Ave Maria” and Schubert s
“Serenade” and the “William Tell” over-
ture and a Toccata and Fugue by Bark,,
and I began to understand why the moving-
picture palaces all go iu for mighty Wur-
litzers. I mean, the remarks some people
make about the pictures need drowning.
Well the gentleman who had spoken to
me before told me to listen carefully to the
echo organ, because he said it was meant to
give the effect of celestial harmony coming
from beyond this mundane sphere and make
us think of Heaven. Well, it is located in
the place usually held sacred to the cine-
matograph operator, but I think it ought to
be in the basement or on the roof or some-
where. It reminded me of the wonderful echo
that used to be the pride of Warburton and
could only be heard from a certain boarding-
house verandah and only then when the
boarding-house-keeper’s son was home from
school. I mean, an echo oughtn’t to grab
you by the arm and shout right in your ear.
Still, as the gentleman explained, a town-
ball organ isn’t
meant for accom-
panying Dusolina
Giannini or any-
thing of that sort.
It is meant for
grand and solemn
occasions when the
people desire to
show their respect
for great and dis-
tinguished strang-
ers who honor the
city with their pres-
ence. I mean, Gene
Tunney or Greta
Garbo might drop
in on us at any
moment.
* *
Australians Mur-
doch and Williams
continued to fill
Sydney Town Hall
with music, song
and people at their
several concerts last
week. In a wild
burst of generosity,
whoever is respon-
sib 1 e for such
things made a con-
tribution to the
comfort of patrons
by hanging radia-
tors head-high at
intervals about the
auditorium walls,
but women wrap-
ping their legs in
scarves and blan-
kets was still a
common sight. Re-
gular concert-goers
in Sydney in win-
ter are neither
fanatics nor mar-
tyrs—-they’re Eski-
mos.
Murdoch plays competently, but he lacks
the power to make the audience want to
rattle the roof off. In Schumann’s “Car-
naval,” with which he opened one perform-
ance, he manages the suggestion of a senes
of different pictures admirably, but they are
quite solid pictures. There is something of
that solidity about all his playing; you
admire it for qualities other than subtlety.
Williams, on the other hand, can range freely
from the quick delicacy of a “Tambourin’’
to the ernDhat’c statement of a “Credo.’
You lightly enjoy his gentle treatment ot
the Prologue from “Pagliacci,” and are car-
ried boisterously away by his rendering of
Newbolt’s “Songs of the Fleet.” According
to arrangements at time of writing, his
chief offering to-night (Wednesday) will be
“Hiawatha’s Vision.” Murdoch will play
the Beethoven overture “Fidelio,” Suite for
Orchestra arranged by Sir Henry Wood, and
“The Emperor” Concerto. Another concert
Will be given to-morrow night, when the pro-
gramme will be made up from the most
popular selections.
¥ ¥ ¥
“The Flying Squad,” Edgar Wallace’s
pleasing fancy about cocaine running, was
unloaded upon Sydney Royal on Saturday
night- in much the same condition that it
was in when reviewed for this page from
Melbourne six months ago. Leon Gordon
gave a characteristic performance as Inspec-
tor Bradley, and was excellently supported
by Frank Bradley as the drink-soaked Sede-
man, a piece of character-acting that wmuld
make the show worth seeing even if the play
were without the customary Wallacian
excitements and amusing situations. Mary
McGregor. Henrietta Cavendish, Mayne Lyri-
ton and B. N. Lewin all do their bit in
carrying along the absurd but engaging tale.
* * *
David Poole, ventriloquist, accompanied
by his papier mfichd and platitudinous
friend Johnny Greene, blew into Melbourne
Tiv. last week without making more than
an average tornado in the programme.
David differs from h ; s innumerable pre-
decessors by exchanging the customary in-
sults with his dummy in a doctor’s consult-
ing-room. Frank Fisher and Fldie Gilmour
are two moderate comedians, and there are
eight more items, which the advt. describes
as celebrity turns.
* * if
“The Wrecker” commenced filling the
Kin-’c A'T'Ub 'o. with Kteam and cross-
word-puzzle addicts on Saturday. Pretty
well the same old cast interpreted the thing
in pretty well the same old way, and theatre-
goers for whom uproar and drama, muddle
and mystery are synonymous terms are
being well served.
Sydney Pullers’ still harbors Jim Gerald,
whose latest essay in irrelevancy is labelled
“The Honeymoon Girl.” James himself is
boots at the Hotel des Palmes, and certainly
bears away the latter vegetable in fatuous
irresponsibility; no batman ever portrayed
by Bairnsfather has equalled him. His japes,
with those of his confreres, while not actu-
ally broad, are not so attenuated that opera
NANCY WEIR, child pianist, who will take a big part in the
Melbourne Town Hall Symphony Concert on Saturday.
glasses are needed to see their point. Reg
Hawthorne and Linda Foy play up to him
heartily, and dances by Joan Graham and
Ron. Shand are other good additions.
# * *
“Applesauce,” which was to have left
Sydney Criterion last Friday, has been given
the benefit of an extra week; A. A. Milne’s
“The Perfect Alibi” will replace it on Satur-
day. “The Baby Cyclone” will finish its
career at the St. James about the same time,
getting out to permit “New Brooms” to get
busy at the week-end matin6e. That night,
too, the Savoy will see a new bill —Muriel
Starr in “Sweeney Todd,” of which the ad.
remarks: “The Sinister Shop. The String
of Pearls. The Fatal Oven. Newgate Prison.
The Dreadful Chair. The Madhouse. The
Infamous Pies. Murder-de-Luxe.” .
* * *
Marlow and Rolls are due to finish with
Sydney Empire to-night (Wednesday) after
about 15 weeks’ valiant effort to get ahead
of current expenses. Fifty thousand pounds
is mentioned as the sum lost in the venture.
The shows the pair have staged—“ Clowns
in Clover” and “Whoopee”—have been extra-
ordinarily lavish; each made The Bulletin
fear that Empire audiences were getting too
much for their money.
¥ * #
Nancy Weir, Melbourne child pianist,
will make her first big appearance at the
Town Hall on Saturday, when Fritz Hart s
orchestra will also be in attendance. Nancy
will play the solo part in Beethoven’s C
minor Concerto, no mean ambition even for
a Brailowsky.
The latter part of Leon Gordon’s season
at Adelaide Royal was notable for his own
fine work in a revival of “White Cargo” and
Mary McGregor’s admirable playing in the
same piece. Character parts in this and in
“The Flying Squad” were strikingly filled
by Leslie Victor and Frank Bradley. Pav-
lova, at the Royal, is also well served by her
supporters. Wirths’ Circus, always popu-
lar in Adelaide, is at the old stand, strength-
ened and improved, raking in the public in
the old way.
* ¥ #
Nellie Bramley, Kyrle McAllister and co.,
continuing their quick-change season (or
permanency) at Brisbane Royal, have just per-
mitted the Bananaland capital to see “The
Last of Mrs. Cheyney.” The next offering
is to be “When Wives Walked Out.”


“Pioneer” Means Dependable Power Transmission.
r/w^
$
c>
ISHIU
Wlmt are your most difficult belting problems? Are
they heavy, gruelling main drives where the belt must
withstand the constant strain of transmitting hundreds
of horse-power day in and day,out, or light, high-
speed drives where extreme accuracy is essential to
minimise vibration and slippage?
Whatever your problems may be you will find
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
absolutely dependable under all conditions of service. Our 70 years of belting
experience are at your disposal in helping to solve your particular problems.
We know working conditions.
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Tanners and Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Mclvell & Sons,
Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland.
Patterson & Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
If You Appoint a Friend Your Executor and
Trustee
He may die soon after you, with the resultant heavy expense
to your estate of appointing a new Trustee. If you appoint
PERPETOAt TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
the question of a new Trustee will never arise.
Write or call for Free Explanatory Booklet.
Nos. 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director: R. COPLAND-LETHBRIDGE.
Manager: H. V. DOUGLASS. 8.43.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mark Foy’s, Ltd. (Sydney).
r Dividends v
Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1918.. 87,804 16,374 13 p.c. = 52,000 19,430 317554
Taxation reserve taken in . . 41,000 72,554
1919.. 117.359 16,374 13 p.c. = 52,000 48,985 121,539
£50,000 of Reserves capitalised .. 71,539
1920.. 117.912 16,374 13 p.c. - 58,500 43,038 114,577
1921.. 16,374 13 „ „ 58,500 51,437 166,014
1922.. 90,818 16,374 13 „ „ 58,500 15,944 181,958
Profit from sale of assets . . 29,338 211,296
1923.. 119.497 16,374 15 p.c. = 67,500 35,623 246,919
1924.. 16,37-4 15 „ ~ 67,500 32,447 279,360
1925.. 122.396 16,374 15 „ „ 67,500 38.521 317,887
1926.. 107.690 16,374 15 ~ „ 67,500 23,816 341,703
1927.. 133.021 16,374 15 „ „ 71,250 45,397 387,100
Assets written down, £112,500 .. 274,600
1928.. 100.901 16,374 15 p.c. = 75,000 9,527 284,127
Reserve adjustment, £5500 .. 278,627
1929.. 76,273 16,374 10 p.c. = 50,000 9,899 288,526
Under ordinary circumstances two successive
slips, totalling £56,748, in net earnings would
be a serious matter. But Mark Foy’s have
been rebuilding their main premises, and the
inevitable disturbance and dislocation of
business, and the substantial amount of in-
terest-bearing money represented by pre-
mises that have not been bringing in any
return have bitten deeply into profits. Con-
sidering the disadvantages, business has been
very well maintained. After an unspecified
amount had been struck off for depreciation,
last year’s gross profit was £393,557, or only
£11,490 less than the 1928 figure, which was
£5767 below its immediate predecessor.
Ordinary trading exes. (£306,284) were
£2138 heavier compared with an increase of
£19,854 in the year before last, and that is
not surprising. In addition, bank interest
on the new building loan (£290,871 at March
15) called for £11,000; thus the year’s net
result fell away £24,628.
After handing the prefs. their £16,374 the
balance of the year’s profit was 11.9 p.c. on
the half-million of ordinary capital compared
with 16.9, 24.6, 20.3, 23.6 and 22.2 p.c. back
to 1924. So the 5 p.c. bonus which had been
handed out in each of the preceding six years
was lopped off the last distribution, reducing
it to 10 p.c. That makes the average return
over the last five years 14 p.c., and to many
that is better than it looks, owing to the
capitalisation of £150,000 of reserves since
1916. So shareholders haven’t much to com-
plain about.
Interest now centres chiefly in the pro-
spects of a recovery in earnings and an in-
crease in the rate of distribution to share-
holders. For the last two years rebuilding
operations, which included the demolition of
the old premises, have meant the constant
shifting of the various departments as well
as crowding them into much less than hall
the space that _will ultimately be available.
Indeed, operations were so cramped last
year that the co. had to reduce its stocks
(£565,668, down £87,586). Owing to the dis-
abilities, total funds (capital and reserves
combined) turned in 7.1 p.c. net as against
11.4 p.c. in 1927. With the extra five floors
which the new building will make available,
earnings should certainly brighten. Of
course there will be a heavy overdraft calling
for reduction, but the money so raised should
be able to earn more than its keep. Further,
the co., which trades largely on a cash basis,
aims at a lively turnover on small margins.
It manufactures much of its own require-
ments, has an extensive goodwill—of which
no account is taken in the books—and its
experience in 1922 suggests that stocks, .the
most vulnerable of the assets,, are in at a
conservative figure.
The building activity and other things are
reflected in this compai'ison of balance-sheet
figures:—
_ 1920. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital. . £722,902 £722,902 £772,902 £772,902 -
Liabilities . . 27,181 35,572 191,935 316,955
Property . . 306,000 371,641 502,089 665,634
Plant, etc. .. 20,805 76,420 133,610 150,810
Stocks . . 494,611 630,482 653,254 565,668
Book debts . . 17,114 62,195 31,236 41,132
Cash, etc. . . 92,818 35,126 11,963 13,326
During the year the net increase in the
debt, which consists of the overdraft
(£290,871, up £135,536) and trade creditors
(£26,054, down £10,516). was £125,020. The
more or less liquids (£620,126) were drawn
upon for £76.327. The money that thus
became available, and more, went into the
new building and plant. How much the new
structure has cost to date liafe not been dis-
closed, but taking into account the apparent
writing down in 1927 —£90,000 of tlie
£112,500 that disappeared, was a reserve
built up to cover loss, by demolition, nn the
old “Piazza” building—about £381,000 in
excess of the ordinary allowance for depre-
ciation appears to have been spent on fixed
assets during the last two years. Notwith-
standing all this, the finances were still com-
fortable. When the last balance was struck
the more or less liquid surplus amounted to
£303,171, including stocks; it was £201,347
less than at the previous balance.
The new space will call for additional
outlay on stocks, but no hint is given that
any further share capital will be required.
Anticipating anew issue, the market pushed
the price of the ords. up to 60s. a little
over two years ago; recent sales were at
495. After allowing for the final div., the
immediate return at the current price is
only 4.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The
investor who looks for a shade over 6 p.c.
on his outlay thus anticipates a return to
a 15 p.c. distribution. At March 15 the
backing amounted to 31s. 6d. per share in
net tangibles. The prefs., which carry a
cumulative 6 p.c. and have priority as to
capital, can be had at par, or a trifle over.
Their cover figures out at £3 17s. lid. in
net tangibles; and last year’s reduced profit
Avas over 4i times their annual requirements.
Robert Harper and Cos., Ltd.
Reserves
(Assets
Dividends. include
r- A s £BO.OOO
“A” “B” of
Pref. Ord. Ord. To Re- Good-
Mar., Profits. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. serves, will).
£ £ £ £ £ £
1919.. 39,105 10,500 19,200 490 8,909 39.952
1920.. 45,808 10,500 19.200 496 15,612 55.564
1921.. 38,125 10,500 19,200 600 7,825 63,389
1922.. 41,020 10,500 19,200 600 10,720 74,109
Inner reserves disclosed . . 80,000 154.109
1923.. 46,016 10,500 19.200 600 15,716 169.825
1924.. 50,469 10,500 19,200 1050 19,719 189,544
1925.. 51,488 10,500 19,200 1425 20,363 209,907
1926.. 50/453 10.500 19,200 1500 19,253 229,160
1927.. 49,443 10,500 19,200 1800 17,943 247,103
1928.. 49,617 10,500 19,200 1800 18,117 265,220
10 p.c.
1929.. 49,887 10,500 24,000 1800 13,587 278,807
For the past 10 years the board of this old-
established dry-goods house, whose ramifica-
tions extend throughout the Commonwealth,
has been steadily building up cash resources.
At the close of last accounts Government
securities alone had a book value of £324,025.
The declared aim is to provide for extension
of the business when opportunity offers.
Until the money can be utilised in such
directions it is proper, the chairman says,
to distribute to the ordinary shareholders
part of the income derived from these in-
vestments. So a bouus of 2 p.c. was sent
out with the final div., making a total of
10 p.c. for the year. That called for an
extra £4BOO, and even then less than three-
quarters of the declared net earnings was
distributed.
After paying exes', and setting aside an
unspecified amount for depreciation and con-
tingencies, the board wrote the year’s net
profit at £49,887, just a trifle better than
for the previous term. The prefs. called for
£30,500 of that, and after attending to the
“B” (employees’) shares, which carry a
maximum 6 p.c., the £37,587 that was left
was 15.6 p.c. on the ordinary capital com-
pared with 15.5, 15.2, 16, 16.4 and 16.2 p.c.
back to 1924. Though there is a suggestion
in those figures that trading has not been
any easier of late, they all give the 10 p.c.
distribution a very comfortable look, and
when employment is found in the business
for the funds now invested in low interest-
bearing securities, prospects for the ords.
should , further brighten. The co. came
through the post-war price slump without
visible falter; and this and other features
indicate pretty clearly that assets have not
hitherto been over-valued.
The effect of the moderate dividend policy
shows up in the £108,982 (equal to 9s. Id.
per ordinary share) of surplus profits that
have been added to reserves since 1923.
making them £278,807 at the close of last
accounts. That figure is subject to £BO,OOO
which the present co. paid for a very wide
goodwill in 1913, when the public was in-
vited in and put up £120,000 (since increased
to £150,000) of pref. capital. The results
achieved are all the more remarkable because
as much as ss. lid. of every pound of tan-
gible assets was in Government securities and
cash at March 31. It all looks uncommonly
like extra-good buying, great economy in
expenditure and very careful finance. While
(lie figures satisfy all requirements usually
looked for in a sound investment, evidence
is wanting of enterprise and progress. Not
only have profits remained practically sta-
tionary for the last half-dozen years, but
the actual earning power of funds is on the
down-grade. In 1918 the net profit was
9.3 p.c. on average funds (capital and re-
serves combined), whereas it was only 7.2
for the last term. While many trading cos.
have of recent years gained results by liven-
ing up the market for existing lines and
creating demand for new ones, Harpers are
still waiting.
The extraordinary improvement in the co.’s
finances over the last 10 years is made plain
by this comparison
1919. 1929.
Fixed assets .. .. £217,851 £202,066 £15,785
Liquid assets . . .. 402,933 485,383-4- 82,460
Total assets .. .. £620,784 £687,449+£66,665
Liabilities .. 233,168 48,092- 185,076
The improvement there is £251,741, but
£21,732 of new capital was got in during that
time, so shareholders are visibly £230,000
better of than they were at the close of ac-
counts in 1919. Over the same period the im-
provement in the more or less liquid surplus
(£437,291) was £207,526. Moreover, the dis-
closure of £BO,OOO of inner reserves in 1922
suggests that things are very comfortable
inside.
Last year the co. sold portion of its pro-
perties at Port Melbourne, and the profit,
undisclosed, was used to further write down
the book value of other freeholds. The net
result was that £7229 more was written off
than was spent on the property item, which
represents the co.’s factory and other pre-
mises in five States. The book value of
plant, down £2509 during the year, is actu-
ally £26,701 less than it was 10 years ago,
notwithstanding substantial additions mean-
while. These and other things are visible
in this comparison of balance-sheet figures:
1919. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital .. 398,268 415,000 420,000 420,000
Mortgages.. .. 35,733
Deposits . . . . 31,318
Overdraft . . . . 72,103 ’ —
Sundry creditors.. 94,014 67,636 50,934 48,092
Freeholds .. .. 135,682 145,413 154,227 146,998
Plant, etc. .. 81,769 65,291 67,577 55,068
Leaseholds . . 400
Stock .. .. 234,710 175,092 144,324 144,867
Sundry debtors . . 145,856 139,378 141,916 136,712
Government securi-
ties, cash, etc... 22,367 112,221 173,859 203,804
The low figure at which trade creditors, in-
cluding amounts in suspense, appear reflects
the management’s policy of cash purchases,
thereby gaining the advantage of maximum
discounts. The drop of £5204 in book debts
might mean that the co. is trading on closer
cash terms.
It is not surprising that the market places
the co.’s scrip high amongst industrial stocks.
When a few of the ords. were released
half a dozen years or so ago—prior to that
the family and other “inside” interests held
the lot tight—there was a tussle to get the
scrip. Amongst other things this helped to
drive prices up. A year ago 335. 9d. was
paid for the ords.; recently the figure
advanced to 38s. The return at the latter
price, after allowing for the final div. and
bonus, is only 5.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The backing amounts to 365. 7d. per share
in net tangibles. The well-protected prefs.—
150,000 of them —which carry a cumulative
7 p.c. and have priority as to capital, are
priced at 225.; at which figure they return
6.3 p.c. Last year’s profit was 4£ times
their annual requirements, and the net tan-
gible cover figures out at £4 2s. 6d. per share.
Fairymead Sugar Cos. (Q.).
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
££ £ £
1918 .. 11,783 8 p.c. = 21,200 65,858
Loss.
1919 .. 14,677 Nil 41,181
1920 . . 17,073 Nil 24,108
Profit.
1921 . . 43,842 12 p.c. = 31,800 12,042 36,150
1922 . . 97,299 20 ~ 53,000 44,299 80,449
1923 . . 28,431 8 „ „ 21.200 7,231 87,680
1924 . . 31,240 8 „ „ 21,200 10.040 97,720
1925 .. 28,793 8 ~ „ 21.200 7,593 105,313
1926 .. 30,484 8 „ „ 21,200 9,284 114,597
1927 . . 61,698 10 „ „ 26,500 35,198 149,795
1928 .. 39,225 8 „ ~ 21,200 18,025 167,820
The board said last year’s net profit was
£27,025 as against £42,498 for the previous
term. That was after £12,200 net had been
added to the replacement reserve, making it
£100,750 at Dec. 31 last If this fund, which
has been built up as profits have permitted
since 1912 and from which nothing has been
visibly withdrawn, is not all accumulated
earnings in excess of depreciation, then the
£167,820 of reserves shown above is not 100
p.c. genuine profit.
Although, under the agreement between
the .Commonwealth and Queensland Govern-
ments, the price of raws for the years 1925
to 1931 is estimated at £26 10s. per ton,
the actual price received by the grower and
miller is up and down according to the
excess of production over local consumption,
and the level of prices in the world’s sugar
market. Last year over one-third of Queens-
land’s record sugar output of 515,134 tons
was exported and given a net value of £lO
10s. per ton, subject to adjustment on real-
isation. The export reduced the local aver-
age price for raws to £l9 Bs.; but the above-
mentioned adjustment may raise this to £2O
15s. Even that is more than 255. below the
previous year’s figure. That, of course,
directly affected the earnings of this Bunda-
berg growing and milling co., which took over
the sugar interests of A. H. and E. Young
17 years ago. Also an increase in the award
price paid for cane bought from farmers cut
into the co.’s gross earnings. Further, and
notwithstanding the State’s bigger produc-
tion, the co.’s crushings were lighter, due
to weather causes, but the board is mute as
to actual tonnages.
One result of all this was a slip of £22,473
in the year’s profits; another was that the
2 p.c. bonus which went out with the pre-
vious year’s S p.c. div. was not repeated.
Since the public became interested in 1911
shareholders have averaged just, a whisper
over 8 p.c., though they have sometimes had
to wait for it. Last year’s £39,225 of profit
shown above was 14.8 p.c. on paid capital
compared with 23.3, 11.5, 10.9 and 11.8 p.c.
back to 1924. The accounts are free of in-
tangibles : and there is nothing to suggest
that the co. has done much better than the
figures indicate.
_ A lot of money has .been spent on planta-
tions, mills and other equipment of recent
years, as this comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows:—
1923. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital.. £266,000 £266,000 £265,000 £265,000
Liabilities .. 58,793 140,481 88,827 92,862
Estates .. 176,063 222,637 223,409 225,394
Factories, etc. 112,585 163,341 162,961 170,277
Railways, etc. 41,084 53,434 52,381 53,268
Plant .. 40,627 64,503 43,116 42,696
Stores .. 6,643 11,076 16,852 23,975
Sugar stocks,
book debts, etc. 46,070 37,287 31,404 31,272
To meet the outlay on estates and plant,
debts totalling more than half the paid capi-
tal had piled up at the close of accounts in
1926. But the nice profits won in the follow-
ing term enabled' the board to make a sub-
stantial cut in the amount coming to credi-
tors, which also includes provision for taxa-
tion. At the close of last accounts liabilities
were £37,615 in excess of the more or less
liquids, including stores, and that was £2956
less than the excess at the previous balance.
During the year £9768 more w r as spent on
fixed assets than was written off, due mainly
to the installation of anew sugar pan.
Manufacturing results, by the way, show im-
provement, the chairman says.
Notwithstanding the 2 p.c. bonus of a
year ago the market then paid only 235. 9d.
for the pound shares, thereby indicating that
it looked upon the co. as an average 8 p.c.
proposition—which, in fact, it has been to
date. Then rumors of the possibility of
something better sent quotes steadily up,
until they reached 295. 6d. two months ago.
Of course there was a sharp drop following
the publication of accounts, and buyers now
offer 245. At that figure the return is 6.8 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The net tangible back-
ing amounts to 325. Bd. per share, more than
half of it in plant of one kind and another,
worth what it can earn. And what it can
earn depends upon the maintenance of an
Australian selling price for sugar greatly in
excess of the world price.
Elder's Trustee and Executor Cos.
* To Re-
Mai - ., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 3,541 10 p.c. = 2000 1541 9,281
1920.. 5,059 10 „ „ 2000 3059 12,340
1921.. 5,411 10 „ ~ 4000 1411 13,751
1922.. 6,376 10 ~ „ 4000 2376 16,127
1923.. 7,696 10 ~ ~ 4000 3696 19,823
1924.. 7,969 10 ~ „ 4000 3969 23 792
Provident fund, £IOOO .. .. 22 799
1925.. 7,749 10 p.c. = 5000 2749 25’.541
1926.. 8,663 10 „ „ 6000 2663 28^204
1927. . 10,366 10 ~ 6000 4366 32 570
1928. . 10,514 10 „ ~ 6000 ) '
Provident fund, £IOOO j 36,084
1929.. 11,182 10 p.c. = 6000 5182 41,266
This prosperous little Adelaide trustee co.
was hatched 19 years ago by Elder, Smith
and Uo., Ltd., and much of its success has
been due to the business which the big
parent has been able to transfer or influence.
Over the decade covered by the table, share-
holders have had a steady 10 p.c., paid capi-
tal lias been trebled by two new 7 share issues
at par, making it £60,000 in £1 shares paid
to n e ?. ch > and surplus profits amounting
to 2s. 9d. a share had accumulated at
March 31.
During the same period both income and
the volume of trusts have more than trebled.
That and the cost of handling the growing
volume of business are visible in the follow*
ing comparisons:—
Gross Exes. p.c. of
Trusts. Profits. Exes. Gross.
1919.. £3,217,760 £11,212 £7,671 68 4u c
1925.. 6,213,625 29,203 20,454 70 0
1926.. 7,281,377 31,772 23,109 72 - 7 ”
1927.. 8,027,324 34,486 24 120 69’9 ”
1928.. 8,685,889 36,744 26,230 71 3 ”
1929.. 9,845,192 38,433 27,251 70’.9 ”
Another pleasing feature of the figures 'is
that last year’s record volume of business-
trusts £1,159,303 in excess of those wound
up were put on the books—was handled at
proportionately less cost. The spring in
gross profits, liow 7 ever, was only £1689 as
against £2258 in the previous term w’hen
the net expansion in trust funds w - as but
£658,565. Maybe some big business came
into the office late in the term. Whatever
the explanation, the rapidly-mounting volume
gives the future for the scrip a rosy look
Last year interest and rents alone brought
in £7593, or enough to pay 12.6 p c “on


2N
I
m#»
■
V
K*
m
m
‘♦*-
m
.
? *
V
. -' ■■'
“Then with a wave of her wand....
9
the fairy-godmother suddenly changed the dim little house into a bright glittering
palace where Cinderella and the Prince lived happily ever after.
And as father closes the story-book, he thinks how his own home has been trans-
formed by tbe magic of Delco-Ligbt.
Gone are the days of oil lamps with their heat, smell and drudgery, and the bother
of cleaning and filling. Gone, too, is the incessant toil of carrying water from the
tank or the well, for Delco-Light provides both electric power and light. Each room
of the house can now be flooded with soft, white light at the touch of a switch.
There is the electric iron to save mother work; there is a vacuum cleaner, a Delco-
Light water system provides water at good pressure with
the turn of a tap—and there is Frigidaire, permanent
Electric Refrigeration.
Delco-Light is self-contained, easy to instal, dependable
and economical. Let yours be one of the thousands of
homes where Delco-Light is saving labor every day and
shedding brightness every night. There are 20 different
models —one of them is well suited to your needs.
Write immediately for Booklet B.
DISTRIBUTORS:
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 307-15 Kent Street, Sydney.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 380-82 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 172-74 Pulteney Street, Adelaide.
STEWART & MACLEAN PTY., LTD., 104 George Street, Launceston.
muse?
f
m
DELCO - LIGHT


é
3 O ON
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
DT
Swift & Coinimn.v l,td.. AustraluMiui Agent*. 26 30 Clarence St., Sydney
Recognise Your Duty and Appoint a Reliable Executor
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED
(The Pioneer Trustee Company of Australia)
412 Collins Street, Melbourne,
is specially qualified to act as your Executor and Trustee.
Its experience of over 50 years is ample assurance that it will manage your affairs to the best
advantage. Unlike an individual the Company is permanent, and its Capital and Assets are
available for the protection of Clients’ interests.
DIRECTORS: Sir John Grice (Chairman), Sir J. H. MacFarland, M.A., LL.D (Vice-Chairman),
R. 0. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, Alexander Stewart, J. Fordyce.
Empowered by Special Acts of Parliament to operate in the States
of New South Wales and Victoria.
CHAR. R. RMTBERT. General Manager v. O. WATSON. Manager.^
Don’t Lose What
You’ve Got
The future is uncertain.
Numerous companies are
showing greatly-reduced
profits.
Prices of many invest-
ments have fallen.
The wise man will watch
his little lot.
You may have everything
in insurance policies.
All the more reason to
see the offices are sound.
There are offices that are
not sound.
The leading Australian
authority on all these
matters is
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY/*
JULY NUMBER READY ON FRIDAY
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/6. Prom Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
ê
1
<§>
m
m
g
[prepared,!
Guaranteed by the manufacturers to
go further, last longer and uniformly
give better results than any other
paint made. —“8.P.”
"KEEPS ON KEEPING ON/”
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
V.
Si
ms
capital as it stands. The £11,182 netted
from all sources mounted to an attractive
18 p.c. on paid capital, compared with 17.5,
17.2 and 14.4 in the three preceding years.
The investment market, which considers
that benefits cannot be long delayed, very
heavily discounts the future by paying 14s.
for the shares. At that price the return
is only 2.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis, or
.‘1.5 p.c. if the rate is lifted to 121 p.c. The
investor who looks for only a shade under
44 ,p.c. on his outlay counts on a 50 p.c. capi-
talisation or on another 4s. per share being
called.
Assets, of course, are a solid lot. Out of a
balance-sheet total of £106,266 at March
31 no less than £97,700 was represented by
Government securities, etc.
The future of these cos. looks as assured
as any future can be. Unless, of course,
Government decides some day to take over
the whole trustee business the turnover seems
certain of steady increase; and so does the
profit unless the Government imposes heavy
restrictions. The latter is a possibility
which the investor cannot safely forget. As
to earnings, we are probably in for a period
of lower property values ; and this will affect
commission receipts, and may affect interest
earnings on the co.’s own funds. But more
trusts are likely to come in to more or less
set off the fall in capital value and interest
earnings of estates.
Singapore Hume Pipe Cos., Ltd.
To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
if if if .if
1923.. 959 Nil 959 18,209
1924.. 9,595 121 p.c. = 5000 4595 13,614
1925.. 1,482 Nil 1482 12,132
1926.. 8,033 10 p.c. = 4000 4033 8,099
1927.. . 7,800 8 „ „ 3200 4600 3,499
Reserves.
1928.. 11,301 10 „ „ 4000 7301 3,802
1929.. 11,699 15 „ „ 6000 5699 9,501
This little one of the Hume cos. has made
splendid progress. It was launched in 1922
as a subsidiary of the Hume Pipe Cos. (Aus-
tralia), Ltd., and set up a factory outside
Singapore. At the beginning nearly half its
paid capital of £40,000 was represented by
goodwill (£15,000) and preliminary exes.
(£4168). But sufficient orders were got to
keep the plant busy, and, except for a set-
back in 1925, due to a cancellation of
orders for which the management blamed a
faulty shipment of cement, some nice profits
have been won. Last year’s £11,699 was
tlie best yet, being 29.2 p.c. on paid capital
compared with 28.2, 19.5, 20, 3.7 and 23.9
p.c. back to 1924. And since divs. averaged
only 6.7 p.c. p.a. for the half-dozen years
to when the books were ruled off in March,
3928, the board was able to prune £19,168 of
deadwood out of the accounts. That freed the
sheet of intangibles, and now an extra 5 p.c.,
which the board labels bonus, is to go out
with the final div., making 15 p.c. for the
year to March 31 last. And then little
more than half the year’s net earnings
will have been distributed. Thus shareholders
can now see the whole of their capital intact
and £9501 besides.
For the most part profits depend upon
Government contracts; but in each of the
last two years there has been an encouraging
increase in the number of small orders.
Although earnings for the 12 months to
the close of last accounts got less benefit
from contract Work than formerly, and com-
petition was keener, turnover was 10 p.c.
better than in the previous term. Also, to
provide for bigger business, the co. has put
up an additional factory at Singapore. A
further development was the erection of new
works there for the manufacture of concrete-
lined steel pipes. But owing to the Gov-
ernment postponing its works programme
the steel-pipe factory, which is being operated
as a joint venture with Hume Steel, Ltd.,
did not contribute to the year’s earnings.
Prospects for the new venture are said to
be bright enough, and the intention is to
extend operations to adjoining territories
as opportunity offers. Hume Steel, Ltd., has
demonstrated its ability to manufacture steel
pipes at a profit.
At March 31 the joint account figured in
the books at £20,000, cash (£3884) having
been drawn upon for £15.200 net during the
year. Nevertheless the finances were quite
comfortable. Stocks (£9282), book debts, etc.
(£6321), and cash were £17,126 greater than
the amount coming to trade creditors
(£2564). Fixed assets (£20,261), apart from
the joint account, were only £ISBO heavier
than at the previous balance, notwithstand-
ing the year’s additions. No hint is given
as to what has been struck off for depre-
ciation.
There were no uncompleted contracts on
hand when the books last closed, but pre-
sent indications, says the chairman, are that
the past year’s business will be maintained.
The market, after considering the risks,
sums up the position by paying 18s. Id. for
the pound shares paid to 15s. each. At that
price the return is 13.3 p.c. as long as the
15 p.c. div. continues. The net tangible
backing per £1 of paid capital amounts to
245. 9d., mostly in plant, etc., worth what it
can earn.
Oil Search, Ltd., is a Sydney float to be
incorporated in Papua. Nominal capital is
£500,000 in ss. shares. The object is to
acquire from Oriomo Oil prospecting rights
over several areas, which it is proposed to
investigate and develop. Oriomo takes
400,000 paids as part consideration for assets
and rights. The other 1,600,000 shares are
offered to the public. On the board are A. J.
Gibson, W. D. Wharton, John Mackay, H. G.
Foxall, W. A. Freeman, Capt. S. N. McLean
and E. J. Pascoe. In R. H. L.
Peterson, H. Frazer East and F. W. DeLettle
constitute a committee of management.
Oriomo will continue with the investigation
of its holdings in Western Papua.
* * * *
One of this Column’s London contributor’s
shows how little notice ought to be taken of
sudden metal-market movements :
The recent sensational jump in lead and zinc was
due wholly or almost wholly to speculation. The
price of copper had been manipulated from New
York to nearly £IOO per ton, and a number of
Continental newspapers suggested that lead and zinc
would also be taken in hand and pushed up to
high prices by American operators.
The tale was to the effect that the share market
had reached such a high level, and speculative loans
in New York' were at so high a figure, that the
Federal Reserve Bank authorities had taken steps
to curtail any further expansion in that direction;
and that, instead of “bulling” the share market any
further, the financial syndicates and manipulators
were going to take the various metals and other
commodities in hand and do with these what they
had accomplished with stocks and shares.
These suggestions were cleverly disseminated
throughout the various Continental centres, with the
result that a flood of buying orders from Continental
speculators reached the London metal market on
one day. This concentrated buying caused a jump
of £G per ton in lead and a rise of about £4 per
ton in spelter. And this again was followed by a
rush of buying orders for mining shares at prices
entirely unjustified by the facts.
* $ * *
Queensland’s Royal Commission on min-
ing has been touring and collecting evi-
dence, and very varied evidence it has
been. Local grievances have been aired
and local log-rolling indulged in, and
there has been some stinging criticism
of the way the mining industry is taxed and
red-taped. The promotion of wild cats and
the poor qualifications of alleged experts
whose names appear on prospectuses have
come in for very pointed remarks; it has
been suggested .that the “experts” should
be required to make declarations that they
have been on the ground and carefully over-
hauled the show, and that they certify to
such and such.
All this won’t do any harm. But it is
not going to save the public from losing its
money. You can’t change human tempera-
ment by such means; and there are men
with high qualifications whose geese are all
swans and always will be.
* * * *
Chillagoe is to come again into the lime-
light. The new Government has appointed a
manager and metallurgist and proposes to
restart one furnace. The new boss, Rutledge,
a good man, is appointed for three years,
and that seems overdoing it, in view of the
sick markets. The new Minister has been
touring the district to discover what ore is
available or likely to be available. It is all
a matter over which the Government is ad-
vised by its friends to go cautiously. Chilla-
goe has helped to dig too many graves already.
jjt * * *
Leslie Urquhart, chief figure in the Ellyou
co., which has options over most of the New
Guinea goldfields, is due in Sydney shortly.
With him is Arthur Dickinson, the co.’s con-
sulting engineer, and both are to visit the
island field. Dickinson inspected the optioned
areas some months ago. In view of the
impending registration in Australia of a
five-million-pound co. to develop the New
Guinea field, special significance is attached
to the visit of the pair.
Ellyou has decided to exercise its options
over Guinea Gold’s alluvial leases on Kaili
and Koranga Creeks on the Upper Bulolo,
the lower portion of the New Guinea field.
The consideration, originally £50,000 in
paids, was increased to £90,000 in paids
when additional options were taken.
$ $ & $
“Kokopo”: There is now a mule track
between Edie Creek and the Wau; this cuts
out one of the worst bits of climbing on this
New Guinea goldfield. The Wau promises to
be the chief centre of the area; here it is pro-
posed to establish the batteries, smelter and
hydro-electric works which are to be a
feature of future developments by the big
working co. now hatching under the wing
of Ellyou. A township is to be laid out by
the Administration,
The airplane services, which also have their
termini at the Wau, are being augmented,
and anew co. is to carry pasengers and
cargo between the field and Port Moresby,
thus reducing the time of the journey from
Sydney to the field by a fortnight.
Many claims are already worked out, but
holders are finding new occupations as re-
cruiters, prospectors, etc. Some men are
only waiting for the opening of the town site
at the Wau to make homes for their wives
and children, and there is bound to be a big
increase in population when the projected
railway breaks through and the large-scale
mining scheme gets into operation.
♦ * * *
New Oswald G. M., Maldon (Vic.), has
gone into liquidation and the plant has
been sold for £3560. A final dividend of
Is. 6d. a share is expected. The mine, which
was opened 75 years ago, has produced some
465.0000 z. gold, worth £1,860,000. The main
reef outcropped on the surface, and was
worked down to 1600 ft. Most of the gold
came from spur bodies.
* * * *
Geologist C. G. Gibson recently inspected
the Golden Butterfly at Norseman (W.A.),
and, notwithstanding all the developmental
work done, advised further shaft-sinking,
winzing and driving. He added that lack of
time prevented his sampling. The idea of
expressing an opinion on an ore deposit
without sampling is not one to be encouraged.
Meanwhile the co., which has shut up shop,
is in no hurry to enlighten shareholders as
to the value of the ore stacked at surface
by treating a parcel from it.
* * * *
McCahons, Westonia, is applying for six
months’ exemption, notwithstanding that as
lately as April the directors said that “with
development we hope to make provision to
keep at least 100 head of stamps going.” The
local director, Rose Grant, says he is going to
England to raise £IOO,OOO required for pump-
ing equipment. Why not treat, with the ten
available stampers, a big parcel of that 80s.
ore mentioned in the last progress report? In
sympathy with McCahons, two other West-
onia shows, Les Trois and Princess Royal,
have suspended operations.
* * * *
Lake View and Star Cos. and Wiluna Cos.
(W.A.) are spending £12,000 apiece monthly
on development and equipment, and the
amount will increase until the new plants
are ready about June, 1931. In both cases
the margin of profit will be small; but
Wiluna is planning to deal with 40,000 tons
monthly and Lake View and Star 30,000.
* * * *
The old story ! Recently interested persons
whooped about the glorious resurrection that
Westonia (W.A.) was going to have, and
good finds were reported wholesale. Visiting
“experts” were said to be favorably impressed
with developments, and many shares were
unloaded. Now, following an adverse report
by an independent mining man, scrip-holders
are downcast.
* * * *
Bright Hope, an Adelaide concern with
more forfeited scrip than cash, continues
optimistic despite disappointments. Since
the abandonment of the Mistletoe (W.A.) no
active operations have been carried on. Funds
are low and prospects a bit slippery to build
castles on.
* * * *
Most Kalgoorlie cos. with interests in
Wiluna realised, but Great Boulder is re-
ported to be considering a venture on its
own account outside the Wiluna pegs. As
operations at Wiluna are costly, and
Boulder’s cash reserves slender, the proposal
needs extra-careful consideration.
* * * *
Satisfactory developments are occurring at
Nos. 3, 6 and 8 levels of North Kalgurli
(W.A.). At each level drives are being
extended on ore of an average width of sft.
and worth 455.
* * * *
Australian shareholders—they own most
of the scrip—in New Phin Soon met in
Sydney lately and decided that the present
directors had not their confidence, and
resignation would be welcome. It was also
resolved that. Messrs. Pedley, Mehan and
Laurie form themselves into a committee to
protect the interests of Australian share-
holders and take whatever action they con-
sidered necessary.
This meeting was convened by A. D. Pedley
and J. K. Mehan, two former Sydney direc-
tors who had been summarily deposed from
the board by a statutory meeting held at
Penang, F.M.S. Mr. Pedley says only 16,750
of the 123,000 issued shares were represented
at the Penang meeting; that trouble had
arisen from the fact that the shares actually
taken upon reconstruction in Dec. last were
52,000 less than the 175,000 supposed to
have been subscribed; and that, contrary to
the Sydney directors’ instructions, the mine
had been let on tribute for £2BOO p.a., which
would leave no margin for profit.
Mr. Laurie, who represented Adelaide
shareholders, has undertaken, in conjunction
with Messrs. Pedley and Mehan, to guaran-
tee the £17,000 or £IB,OOO needed to place
the co. on a sound working basis: assuming,
of course, that they are assured of satis-
factory management. One of the two areas
which are the pick of the co’s leases is
believed to contain 2,600,000 c.y. of 1.661 b.
dirt, and the other 64!).000 c.y. worth 3.281 b.
Costs are not expected to exceed 43 cents —
say lid. —a yard.
è


Whitest
Purest
Best
These are not idle words, they are
backed by the largest Gin Distillers in
the World and guaranteed by a repu-
tation enjoyed and jealously guarded
for over 150 years ! Gordon’s Gin
is produced in London, England, by
the original process of distillation from
the original, recipe, the secrets of
which belong to the HOUSE of
GORDON and have been handed
down through generations ! It is for
this reason Gordon’s Gin has the
largest sale at Home and throughout
the World, having no rival for Purity
or Quality.
9
Guaranteed distilled
in London, England
GIN
n
Gordons
N
DRY GIN
Wltv 1
t N OLA* 0
I-—— biST.tcco IN Lomdok ' \
I TANQUERAY . GORDON l J
The Heart of a
Good Cocktail
BY APPOINTMENT.
The Largest
Gin Distillers
in the World
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
dominion forests ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: 26 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH.
NOMINAL CAPITAL ---- £lOO,OOO
SPECIAL AFFORESTATION-ASSURANCE ROND ISSUE.
OUR BOND, BOUGHT FOR £3O on very easy terms, provides:—
ONE FREEHOLD ACRE planted with 650 Pinus insignis trees, planted
m N.Z., and a
FREE INSURANCE POLICY FOR £250 FOR 10 YEARS.
NO BETTER PROPOSITION OFFERED.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR PROSPECTUS. COVER THAT DEATH RISK.
EC
■>
If
Growing
Gold
Just two years ago QUEENSLAND FORESTS LTD alive to the
impending timber shortage, acquired immensely valuable timber
holdings in the rain-belt of North Queensland.
Expert silviculturists and foresters were set to work to develop the
natural and potential wealth of the properties, while the public were
invited to participate in a
Great Co-operative Industrial
Enterprise
designed to capitalise the possibilities which the properties possessed.
It was then that the “A Series” of £5 Bonds was issued. Some
critics openly scoffed; others secretly doubted; but the prudent
bought bonds worth over £400,000 in two years.
It was estimated that the marketing of timber would be commenced
in five or six years from the date of Bond Purchase while it was
expressly understood that the “A” Series Bonds would be redeemed
out of the progressive sales of timber from 3000 acres of forest lan
Since then an additional 6000 acres of well-stocked timber-lands
have been voluntarily placed behind the A Series Bonds o
accelerate their redemption. This, with the systematic develop-
ment of the property and the intensified world-shortage of luxury
woods, has greatly enhanced the value of the A Series Bon s.
From this date there will be no more
Queensland Forests, Ltd., Bonds
Sold at £5.
A strictly limited number of First Section Bonds will now be offered
at £1 0 and there is no possible doubt but that a further advance
in values will be registered, as the date of marketing draws nearer.
The causes which have already operated to enhance the values ot
Queensland Forests, Ltd., Bonds
will assuredly advance them again. Therefore, be wise and profit
by an early purchase.
Queensland Forests, Ltd., £lO Bonds, each returning £lOO to the
investor, are not “too good to be true,” as some of the sceptics said.
They are both good and true, and the thrifty will profit by the
experience of the past two years and buy while the conditions are
so favorable.
The Terms are Easy and the Returns
are Certain,
.rotected as the Bonds are by an adequate Trust Fund, and the
,hole of the capital of the Company (£lOO,OOO fully subscribed).
We do not ask you to visualise what your forest wealth
should be like in 20 or 30 years’ time; we show you
what it is TO-DAY.
Write ■ to any of the undermentioned addresses
and all particulars will be promptly sent.
QUEENSLAND FORESTS, LIMITED,
E. S. 8 R. C. MOULTON LTD.
Financial Managers.
Head Office: Union Building, Bond Street, Sydney.
Melbourne: National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins Street.
Brisbane: Rowe’s Central Buildings, Edward Street.
And at
Adelaide, Perth, Newcastle, Rockhampton, Townsville,
Singapore.


ë
SIP
<
o
iViP
< Jhemonth of July
2 ushers in j
Events of /
National Importance /
1. —N ational Broadcasting
Service comes on the air....
bringing to listeners-in the best
brains and talent of Australia.
2. —Magna vox announces sensa-
tional drop in prices . . . bringing
the world’s finest speaker within
the reach of every set owner.
HAGNAVCX
DYNAMIC
POWER SPEAKERS
World-Wide Demand Results
in NEW LOW PRICES
England, America, Aus-
tralia .... ..Magnavox
Dynamic is hailed as the
reproducer supreme. The
fact of this phenomenal
and increased demand
alone brings about the
new low prices.
The Magnavox record is
one of sustained leadership
in the loud speaker field.
In 1911 Magnavox made
the original loud speaker
. . . and gave audible voice
to radio. In 1 926 Magna-
vox created the original
modern dynamic speaker
.... which revolutionised
speaker reproduction. And
to-day Magnavox stands
a10ne.... a leader.... the
only speaker capable of
flawlessly re-creating
music or voice as it is heard
in the broadcasting studio.
Fit a Magn av o x
Speaker Unit into Your
Present Set Cabinet!
0
DYNAMIC UNIT 6
£5/15/-
6 volts D.C. field current,
consumption .65 amperes.
Operates from A battery,
or dry-type battery-
charger.
The New
DYNAMIC UNIT 9
£6 5/-
For use with Electric Sets
employing a 280 Rectifying
Tube.
Cabinet Models from £8
■wKwss3g33BBBBBB^
BEVERLEY JUNIOR
Fitted with Unit to work from Accu
mulator or Trickle Charger
£8
NOTE:
The above prices also apply to the MAG-
NAVOX ADVERTISEMENT on Page 35.
Wholesale and Retail Distributors:
JIG
immons
hi
HEADQUARTERS: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY


52 MacleaySt
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT'
(Located within the City Boundary] seven
minutes from G.P.0 .)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 150 Rooms, is now open and
features' Two-, Three- and Four
room Suites, each with Bath; also
Single and Double Rooms. Centra)
Heating, Running Water and
’Phones installed in each room.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views.
Weekly inclusive tariff,
from £5/5/-
Daily, from £1
Telephone; F 2 16 1 (8 lines) ; Tele-
graphic address: “Fifmac,” Syd-
ney.
r'
• tJ
nunyiui
II
111
liii
11l
Sho es
Scientific Lasts for Girls
Rhoda Mary Model B. Designed to
give perfect freedom to growing feet.
f.lack or Tan Calf; Black Glace Kid.
• zes * 10 to 7. Prices, 19/11 to 27/6
Postage 9dlnter-State 1/2.
Write to Desk B for-Catalogue.
Jackson's L td
"Stonewall" Stores.
Cur Pitt 6 Goulbura S* flidnen
Depend On
Wunderlich Quality
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings
Wunderlich Roofing JMes
Wunderlich “Durabestos” Building
Sheets
Wunderlich Metal Shopfronts
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
Fof Fort}) Years, Manufacturers of Qualify
Products for Ceilings, IValls,
and Roofs
A BORIGIN
ALITIE'S
ADDITION AND SUBTRACTION.
HIS NEWLY-ARRIVED REVERENCE (to parishioner)-. “Well,' Terence, they tell me you’ve
got better than a dozen in family.”
MURPHY : “No, indade, and plaze yer Rivirince, only ilivin.”
HIS REVERENCE : Well, sure, and isn’t eleven better than a dozen?”
“Dux”: Uncle Jim and I were never good
pals, and I couldn’t stand his third wife.
But when she passed out I felt I ought to
go across and tender my sympathy. Approach-
ing the house I saw uncle sitting on the
verandah, a picture of misery, and as I drew
nearer his sobs and wailing were painful to
listen to. He was taking it badly, that was
certain. Like a dutiful nephew, I placed
my arm on his shoulder and said, “Don’t go
on -like that, uncle. I know it is hard, but we
all have to go where she’s gone.” “But she cost
me twenty quid,” sobbed uncle. “Cost you
what?” I gasped. “Yes,” said uncle, with
a fresh paroxysm of grief, “that heifer I
bought from Tom Miller last week —she got
in the drain last night and drowned herself!”
* * * *
“Atherton”: A sheep-dog . story comes
from Maoriland, where the truth is re-
spected. The tyke was yarding three Sheep
in a “pull, head and yard” event, when a
rebellious jumbuck charged him. ■ The dog
neither barked nor bit. He simply gave
the sheep a straight right on the nose with
his paw. The sheep came again and
stopped a left cross to the muzzle. It
“baa-ed” ferociously, lowered its head and
charged again. The dog reared up and
delivered a left and right straight to the
point. The dazed sheep took the count
and rolled backward into the pen.
* * * *
“Wingella” : Sickly piccaninnies don’t live
long. One I knew got fever, and did not
recover from it as the others did. He
was always grizzling and whining about the
camp, and, though the blacks did what they
could for him, he simply lay about and sulked
when the others came to play with him.
His father came to me for goats’ milk and
rice puddings and other dainties, but the
kiddie would, as often as not, throw the food
in the dirt instead of eating it., or else pass-
ing it on ,to other .children. Then the tribe
went bush for their usual ‘‘walk-about,”
returning months later minus this sick boy,
whom his father had carefully carried off on
his,shoulders, “What way Peter?” I asked.
“Him die, longa bush,” I was told. “What
name him die?” I queried. Peter’s father
came and leaned on the fence. “You bin
long time longa this one country, boss; my
bin think it you savvy plenty. Him bin
die, longa bush; no good talk-talk too
much—him bin die —him no good, that one
piccaninny; all time sick feller, too much
cross feller. Him bin die —that’s all!”
“Hamer”: Amongst Australia’s extinct
fauna, as far as the cities are concerned,
may be reckoned the eccentric remittance
man; if any survive they are lost in the
crowd. At one time Sydney held half a
AT THE PHOTOGRAPHER’S.
What Uncle Bob at once 'proceeded to do when requested to moisten his lips.
dozen who were notorious. One, who wore
suits of a small black-and-white draught-
board check,_ signalised the arrival of his
monthly remittance by passing from pub to
pub, in each of which he would
fling himself on his knees, de-
claring that he worshipped at
the shrine of Bacchus. After
each of these theatric entrances,
he deposited a bunch of flowers
on the bar as a votive offering.
A flower-seller, who knew his
man, followed him round to
supply his requirements, and in
his train also was a procession
of small boys, who peered in
at the pub doors and jeered.
Another queer cuss celebrated
the arrival of his remittance by
hiring three cabs, which went
from pub to pub in procession.
The surplus vehicles carried his
hat, stick and coat when he be-
came too proud to travel in
their company. Then there was
the chap who eschewed alcohol and changed
[us clothes every time he went round the
block—which was once every half-hour. But
that’s another and an oft-told story.
* * * «
“Yarri”: A mate of mine in Tongowoko
County (the huge north-western corner of
N.S.W. hasn’t got any other' handle) was a
bush carpenter named Jim Hynes. One day,
while working in gaping boots at Pindara,
he was bitten on the middle' toe by a salt-
bush snake —a wriggler that, attains only
about two feat in length, but is reckoned
out back to be particularly deadly. 1 On a
sandhill near the hut was the grave of a
man who, according to local reports, had
«»ed 20 minutes after being punctured by
Salty s fangs. The remembrance of that
impelled James to speedy action. While
lie pulled his boot off he asked me to get
him a ligature. It took me only a few
seconds to find a bit of twine in the hut, but
hen I ™ s , hed ou t with it Jim’s toe was
off. He had placed the doomed member on
a block of wood and struck it off neatly
at the joint with a mallet and chisel. The
ligature was to stop the bleeding.
* Hi $ £
Up North”: Insects and animals have
done their share of mineral prospecting in
Australia. Termites have located fields by
building into their nests grains of gold and
tin dug from down below, and the keen eye
of the prospector has done the rest. Up
north there are fossickers who regularly
pan off a dish of termite mound if it is
built upon likely country. At Ebagoolah
(Cape York Peninsula) an exceptionally
rich leader was located in this way. The
termites had built right over the cap, and
the tiny particles of ironstone, pin-pricked
with gold, showed up well in the prospector’s
dish. The West Arm (N.T.) fossickers con-
tinually examine termite mounds for the
little grains of tin that betray riches below.
By such a method rich ground has twice
been opened up. The Chinese on the Palmer
opened up a bonanza gully by noticing a
golden speck just visible on the cap of an
antbed. There was no gold below the bed,
and the gully was 50 yards away, so the
ant that salvaged the grain must have
thought it highly valuable. A slug of green
ore rooted at the mouth of a wombat burrow-
led to the discovery of the rich Wallaroo
copper-mines. There are men who make a
practice of panning the debris from rabbit
burrows in gold-bearing country.
* * * ft
“Tarantula”: Bill and Harry had humped
the bluey together for many years, but the
day came when Harry had to take the long
trek into the west alone. Bill came into
the township about two weeks after he had
left all that remained of his mate lying at
the foot of a mountain where the mists
wreathed down, and in the springtime the
wattle would bloom over that spot.
Sitting on the pub verandah that night we
talked of Harry. “So poor Harry’s gone,”
I said. “Yes,” said Bill dully. “He was
a good mate,” I continued. “Yes,” said Bill
more dully than before. “You’d been together
a good many years?” No answer this time.
But I was determined not to let the subject
drop. “He was a good bloke,” I said; “he
was always so willing and obliging.” For the
first time a gleam lighted Bill’s tired old face.
“Obligin’?” he, said, his voice risin’ in enthu-
siasm. “My oath he was obligin’. Why, if I
said ‘Sit down’ he’d lie down.” His voice
sank again and his eyes turned to the west.
“Yes,” he said Wistfully; “he was obligin’
right enough, Harry was.”
* * * ft
“Mebra”: There’s more ways of killing
a Too than choking it with butter. A
boundary-rider on a n.-w. station improvised
a method which was both original and effec-
tive. His dogs bailed up an old-man Too
but couldn’t get him down. Calling the
dogs off. their owner backed bis horse to-
wards the Too, which stood rocking back-
wards and forwards, holding his little sharp
claws ready to attack. Unfortunately for
the Too, the target he selected was the hind-
quarters of the horse. The result was a
kick from both hooves that caved in the
’roo’s breastbone.
(Continued on page 25.)
THE TUCKER PATCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thirty years ago I met him on a dusty gold-
fields track,
All his worldly goods and chattels obviously
on his back.
Corks depended from his liat-brim; there
were patches on his shins ;
And he told me he was heading for “the
tucker patch at Quinn’s.”
There he’d won his first alluvial in the West,
r and he’d be bound
That he still could wring a living from that
well-remembered ground.
As the needle to the northward back inex-
orably spins
After forcible deflections, so his face was
turned to Quinn’s.
Up and down the fields he’d wandered, so I
gathered, near and far,
Raking flats in fifty places from the Cross
to Marble Bar.
Buck, he said, had been against him on the
heather and the Peak,
But the patch should still be good for half
a dozen ’weights a week.
He was done with chasing rainbows, old for
following rushes new;
Food and clothing would content him now,
and just a bob or two.
And determinedly he left me, on his far
from vigorous pins.
For there still were miles between him and
the tucker patch at Quinn’s.
And I like to think he got there, and I
trust that he was not
Disillusioned of his pittance on that pocked
and pitted plot.
Did he find a mate to give him welcome?
That I’ll never know.
Yet his memory’s never left me, though ’tis
thirty years ago.
Homing—for he deemed it homing—like
some bird with tired w-ings,
Still I sec that lonely figure, symbolising
larger things.
Fabled El Dorados lure us hither and thither
for our sins,
Mythical Golcondas cheat us till, when life’s
last stage begins,
Like as not we’re found returning to “the
tucker patch at Quinn’s.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


vlB ilglsrai ! '' : ' Sl# I
/ 1 :
\
\
.;
' r%*
L
■
\
*7s -V ■- im—■
S'
<
■
SHHIiWIM
/
iM*-
mmm
■
V
' : mmm> \
I
** I
&££
■ ■ ■'
■
■
l
I
■HP
-- • • ■
i.
mmm
Ml ..
-■ ■
H
1
•■■■ : - '
1
"^m
mMw
mm
Wm
f
w
w s»*
AcA L»ne
v
M_£
BUILT in a factory that has at its disposal all the
huge resources of General Motors, of world-wide
fame. Built in Britain of 97 per cent. British
materials by all-British labour. Built specifically for
motoring conditions as you find them to-day. And
how utterly pleasant those conditions are you will
know when you drive the Improved Vauxhall.
An engine that pours forth its eager power to
take you humming along the open r0ad....0r doles it
out economically to edge you through traffic in top
gear....THE VAUXHALL ENGINE!
Brakes that relentlessly check a 70-m.p.h. speed-
burst and smooth it out to a standstill in a few seconds
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR
....or masterfully Hold the car on a down gradient when
you just rest your foot on the pedaI....VAUXHALL
BRAKES!
Springs that damp out every jolt and tremor of
the wheels....or hug the car tight down on the road
at a bend....VAUXHALL SPRINGS !
Briefly, a car that gives you a high average
speed on the roads of to-day....a car that moves
serenely among its fellows like the aristocrat it is....the
Vauxhall the NEW-IMPROVED VAUXHALL!
There’s only one way to appreciate Vauxhall
performance....drive the car!
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER
GENERAL MOTORS (Australia) PTY. LTD.
METROPOLITAN DISTRIBUTORS:
Sydney; Boyd Edkins Limited, Phillip Street ' tro^° li Jfi Mo ! ors Limited, Adelaide Street
Mm, mister motors Lm "“ d ‘ Frank,in s ‘"“


We Unload Stock
promptly on arrival, day or night, handle them
carefully, class them skilfully, value them accurately
and sell them at top market figures,
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Homebush Yards,
Sydney,
Enoggera Yards,
Brisbane.
Truck sheep, lambs, cattle, calves, pigs, to
Winchcombe, Carson.
Offices: Winchcombe House, Bridge Street, Sydney;
and 99-101 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
m
m
m*
JHE GREYS
SIZEoTWO
SILKCUT VIRGINIA.
DRAP
LONDON
EYS
I® for fdL CIGARETTES £® for £/<&
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys”
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a “GREYS.”
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights”
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
One can always be confident
of receiving the utmost
VALUE at PEAPES, because
PEAPES mark all their goods
at a definitely low all-the-year-
round price, which has not
to provide for ‘‘marking
down’’—for PEAPES do not
conduct “sales.”
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney,
“Copabella”: Landmarks about the old
diggings of midland Victoria that are
puzzling to strangers are tall chimney-stacks
behind bank or ex-bank premises. These
are relics of the roaring days when the bulk
of bank trade on remote fields was the buy-
ing of raw gold direct from diggers. ' It
came in all forms and in all sorts of con-
tainers, the most popular of the latter being
a tiny pouch of moleskin cut from superan-
nuated pants. This virgin gold was retorted
by the bank, and the chimney-stack was
necessary,, to carry the retort fumes over
other buildings in the towns.
* * * *
“Boomslang” : The Commonwealth Serum
Lab. has announced that it shortly proposes
to make available to the public anti-venoms
for use against the poisons of the death-
adder and the tiger-snake, the two most
dangerous Australian snakes. The trouble
THE INHUMAN MONSTER.
"But on what grounds, my dear Madam, do you claim a divorce?”
"Why, cruelty, of course. He agreed to a secret marriage, and
now he won’t let me tell anybody!”
in preparing these and similar antidotes has
lain in the fact, which it has taken some
time to discover, that the poison of each
species varies in its toxic constitu-
ents and effects. This makes it prac-
tically imperative that a separate serum
should be prepared for each snake. In time
to come, every variety of poison snake will
have its poison offset by a particular
specific. Much, therefore, depends on in-
stant identification of the snake after a
bite, and printed propaganda to this end is
to be relied on. Pending serum treatment,
the old remedy of instant ligaturing and in-
cision to insure free bleeding is recommended.
“Mundowie”: The bushman has dis-
covered many uses for his old grey hat
besides wearing it on his head. After
throwing a sheep on its side he places, the
hat over its eyes, and it lies there quietly
while lie is getting something with which
to tie its legs. When he comes upon a
snake he puts the hat down in front of it,
and goes off for a stick; and when he
returns the snake is still there, watching
the hat. If his dog wants a drink on a
dry road or run, lie puts the hat on
the ground, dumps in the crown
and fills tin; cavity from his water-
bag. lie also makes a dipper with
it for himself by cupping the rim.
It is a carry-all for eggs, fruit
and the bit of dirt he wants to
wash to see if it lias a color in it;
and, lastly, when he reaches camp,
he fans the fire with it.
* * * *
“Veronal” : Emu meat saved the
lives of the survivors of the wreck
of the brig Woodlark, which came
to grief on an outlying part of the
Barrier Reef, N.Q., in 1828. Oiw
of the crew, after the party had
landed in the long boat, chased a
native dog away from an emu it
had just killed. The bird was
skinned and some of the flesh
cooked and eaten immediately,
while the sound leg—the warrigal
had chewed up the other —was re-
served for future meals. The leg
“weighed equal to a good-sized leg
of mutton,” and when roasted gave
the party of 18 persons, including
two women and a young child, four
meals. Thanks to the emu meat,
, eked out with wild lettuce, beans
and rock oysters, the derelicts man-
aged to reach the settlement at
Moreton Bay.
* * * *
“His'toricus”: Marco Polo, the
Venetian explorer, who, as com-
mentators explain, probably heard
about it during his sojourn in
China, refers in his writings to a
land called Locac, which by some
antiquarians has been identified
with Australia. A reference to
elephants has hitherto been re-
garded as sufficient to discredit the
evidence. But he sailed very far
south, as is amply established, and his know-
ledge may not have been all hearsay. I
have one bit of evidence to offer on the sub-
ject. My great-aunt Tabitha once showed
me an ancient parchment in Batin, which
she declared was the work of Polo, and in-
vited me to translate it. I was then in my
twelfth year and my Latinity was a bit defec-
tive. P.ut I remember that it was addressed
to a Doge, whose name
I forget, and described
a landing on a rock-
bound shore where the
cliffs were red. Black
men with spears be-
haved in a threaten-
ing manner and the
explorers beat a re-
treat, but not before
they had seen a great
hopping beast with a
head like a deer,
dwarfed forelegs, big
powerful hind legs
and an enormous tail.
This creature in tran-
sit held itself in an.
upright posture. Polo
and his contemporary
adventurers had fairly
vivid imaginations,
and told highly-flav-
ored stories on occa-
sion. But could any-
body who hadn’t seen
it imagine the kan-
garoo?
* *
“Pila”: A feature
of the bracken-lands
of Gippsland (Vic.)
are the little settle-
ments of Southern
Europeans. Working
from dawn till dusk,
they are converting
waste land into farms,
the womenfolk, garbed
in their, national
attire, assisting in the
work. Their food is supplemented by
rabbit and fox. The men are pic-
turesque in their brown velvet clothes,
and some wear earrings, whilst the women
adopt long, ornate skirts, handkerchiefs
capping their heads. At times gala
reunions are arranged, and at night bonfires
are lit, stringed instruments are brought
to light and national dances performed. Most
of the families are Italian, and some of the
menfolk are ex-members of different national
societies, but there is no friction between
them. The colony, somewhat isolated in the
hills, is not popular with the farmers there-
abouts, but they have to recognise Toni’s
untiring endeavor to make the bracken
country productive, a job given up by the
Australians who tackled it.
* * * *
“Billy See”: A nor’-west W.A. squatter
was having a residence built, and decided
on an alteration to his plans. _ The brick-
layers were nearly finished and it was neces-
sary to get another window-box frame in
before they left. Brought by boat this would
have taken a fortnight, with brickies wait-
NEW GUINEA FASHION.
MISTRESS (newly arrived ): “What has that woman got all the grass hanging about her
for?”
HEAD HOUSEBOY: “Fashion belong New Guinea, Sinabada, becos her husban’ he dead.”
SINBADA: “Ah, her widow’s weeds, so to speak.”
ing at £9 a week. Telegraphing to Perth
the squatter ordered the box frame and in-
structed that it be'despatched by aeroplane.
The frame was made in a few hours, taken
to pieces, packed in canvas and handed to
the Airway Go. Its total weight was 1251 b.;
value, about 505.; freight charge, £l5 10s.
Leaving Perth at 6 a.nt., it was delivered
at Carnarvon at 2 p.m. This is the first
time in Australia that building material has
been carried through the air—rpossibly the
first time in the world it has been carried
by aeroplane.
* * * *
“Fourwalls”: Here’s a quaint addition to
back-yard potterers’ hobbies. A Melbourne
resident is now devoting his Saturday after-
noons to constructing a lagoon, wherein fish
for the table are to be raised. It isn’t so
silly as it sounds. Eels, trout, bream and
even Murray cod (which are very expen-
sive) will thrive in a well-made and well-
managed pond. The little home industry is
recommended by the British Agricultural
Department, and promises to flourish in the
Cold Land.
* * * *
“Claude W.”: The flying-fish is really
more of a torpedo than a flier. The tail
has a long lower half and when it is whirled
about in the water it propels the fish into
the air. Then he firmly sets his four fins
and sailing away he goes. Fie does not flap
his fins during the flight. When the force
with which he has launched himself in the
air is exhausted he flops back into the water
and gets busy with his tail again.
# # *
“Mango”: The Malays teach quail to
wrestle, and in the market-places you may see
these strange conflicts. The birds seize each
other by the beak, and strain and tug until
one is thrown off his feet. It’s more amus-
ing than cock-fighting and more humane.
* * * *
“Pick”: Under the precipitous cliffs of
Mystery Bay (N.S.W. South Coast) detona-
tions sounding like distant artillery long
mystified fishermen and other passers-by. In-
vestigation by boat showed that several round
bores, extending 10ft. to 15ft. into the rocks
and a foot in diameter, had been worn by
erosion. Billows rolling into these com-
pressed the air, and when the waves receded
each hole, with a muffled roar, belched out a
long spinning column of spray that sprinkled
the sea for a distance of 40 yards.
* * * *
“Sea Nomad”: Recently I visited a most
desolate spot on the Great Barrier Reef —
Raine Islet, a half-mile strip of coral and
sand hardly 15 feet above water in its most
mountainous part. Fossicking for guano, we
dug down some six feet in the coral-sand-
shell rock, and unearthed a nest of 85 petri-
fled turtle-eggs. They looked like shrivelled
ping-pong balls badly in need of a wash.
Some were merely a thick hollow shell,
turned to solid limestone. Apparently the
islet has been growing for centuries, for
when those eggs were laid the spot was pure
beach sand. Now there is six feet of rock
above it.
* * * *
“Warri”: There is nothing better for
keeping leather soft than kangaroo fat,
rendered into oil, but very few shooters
take the trouble to collect it. The kan-
garoo is worth a lot more than the value
of its pelt, for which it is mostly shot.
The hindquarters, salted ami smoked, make
good tucker; the tongues are excellent, and
the tails (from does and half-grown bucks)
make a delicious soup that is thick with
jelly. An expert bush cook can make a
palatable dish with any part <of a young
Too. Those who disparage Too meat have
probably sampled only the big fellows.
sjs * * *
“Sea Nomad”: A bread relished by Ton-
gan islanders is made out of the fermented
paste of the breadfruit, which, along with
other fruits, is buried in pits and kept for
months. The paste is then rolled into balls
and cooked. It is tasty, but smellful. There
is a legend that once upon a time there
lived on Eua a young man named Vainuku,
most marvellously handsome. The princess
Tui, of Tonga, canoed across with her maids
to have a peep at this prodigy. On landing
on the islet beach the princess packed the
maids off to gather firewood for the billy. One
of the girls strayed, and found her way into
Vainuku’s palm-thatched house. A man
knelt there making bread. The curious one
snatched off the baker’s headgear, and out
rolled the ravishing hair of Vainuku.
Although he was a warrior, he secretly de-
lighted in the woman’s work of making
bread. That night, under the sighing palms,
the sheik sneaked out to do a little courting.
First of all he glided to where the princess
lay on her couch of fronds. But she rose
on her elbow, covered her body with her
hair and held her nose. “Pooh!” she lisped.
“Get!” Vainuku was treated with similar
disdain by all the girls until he bent over
the one who had seen his hair that morning.
THE JOB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They put me in the flyin’ gang just for to
try me out,
And when I heard the hammers clang and
bustle al] about
My heart within me leapt and sang, I felt
I’d like to shout.
And the trade comes back to me hand
again,
Like the hiss of steam on the gland again,
For I know that I’m in demand again,
And a tradesman beyond a doubt.
The foreman eyes me on a shell, a-whippiu’
round a seam.
Says he: “You work your hammer well and
drifter and the ream.”
I says to him: “I served a spell, and served
it unto steam.”
Back to the racket and clamor again,
Spanner and chisel and hammer again,
Life has a bit of a glamor again,
And the past is only a dream.
I take the pride, the pride of trade, in
workin’ neat and fine*,
From sett-in’ of a turbine blade to bondin’
of a spline,
And when a foreman next is made, I’ll bet
I’m right in line.
It’s compass and scriber and rule again,
And the cuttin’ edge to the tool again ;
And I ain’t so much of a fool again,
For I’m holdin’ the job that’s mine.
N.s.w.
E. W. O’BRIEN.


Our Service Department
This page is- set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
By married couple, husband (26), experienced wheat
farming, blacksmithing and truck driving; wife,
experience station cooking, job on N.S.W. station
or farm. Two children (three years and 18 months).
—905.
Young man (21), G.P.S. education, two years’ ex.
sheep (Q.), knowledge all classes farm work, wants
position jackeroo or hand, station or mixed farm,
anywhere with chance advancement. Refs.—963.
Young man (21), Brisbane, wants to join experi-
enced woolclasser as learner. —958.
Educated man (Q’land), ex-teacher languages,
London and Hamburg, interpreter during war, wishes
to get in touch with country newspaper proprietor
needing services of journalistic rouseabout. Tee-
totaller.—96o.
Englishman (20) wants job on wheat farm. I.H.C.
tractor-driver, and all farm work; refs.; go any-
where. —998.
Educated, musical girl, Q’land, seeks position as
governess or companion, country preferred.—lol4.
Man (25), Sydney, requires position as station
book-keeper, Experienced ; well educated ; no objec-
tion to acting as tutor.—933.
Working directions for construction of water-
wheel suitable for turning grindstone, small grit mill
and grinder for chick-feed. —988.
Man (24), well educated, with business experience,
also among sheep and general farm work, fencing,
etc., wants job on sheep station, any class work, with
ultimate possibility of book-keeping. Strong and
able to ride. —982.
Man (28) wants job as manager of store (country
preferred), or station book- or store-keeper. Thorough
knowledge general store work.—979.
. North Q’landcr (21), good physique and education,
wants job in the Malay States, connected with mining,
forestry or planting.—B9o.
Young man (21), two years’ experience on large
dairy farm, small capital, wants share-farming in
Vic. or N.S.W—9O4.
Man (30), returning from New Guinea in August,
wants two or three months in country (N.S.W.),
with plenty of riding.—B93.
To get into touch with free-lance black-and-white
artists who want gags or jokes for their sketches. —-
984.
Lady (28), N.S.W., pianist, like to correspond
with educated gentleman, violinist. —884.
Young man (Q’land) would like to correspond
with readers interested in photography.—9l2.
Man (25), S.A., would like to correspond with
Bulletin readers, either sex, residing in New Guinea
or Pacific Islands.- —964.
To correspond with readers interested in gladiolus
growing.-—938.
Words of song entitled “Revenge.”—9oB.
Name of person who wrote from Manangatong
(Vic.), and forgot to sign letter. (To J. S. Litch-
field, Darwin, N.T.)
Words of song entitled “Paddy McGinty’s Goat.”
—lOl6. *
To buy books by J. M. Curie, “The Shadow Show,”
“This World of Ours” and “To-day and To-morrow,”
second-hand, in fair condition.—lol3.
To buy (Vic.), second-hand bellows, in good order,
24in. or 30in. —997.
To buy Wanian’s “Engine Driver’s Guide” (31st
edition). —978.
To buy Webster’s “International English Diction-
ary.” State date of publication and price.—913.
To buy books, “Structural Engineering,” by
Brightmore, and “Water Supply Engineering,” by
Fanning, new or second-hand. —992.
Whereabouts of family of James Hoare, 19 children.
(To E. S. Chisnall, 514. First-avenue, Verdun, Quebec,
Canada.)
Information Sought.
(1) Is there a correspondence school
attached to the N.S.W. Education Depart-
ment? (2) To whom has a candidate to
apply for appointment as a teacher? —s73.
(1) Yes, for the instruction of country
children living in districts remote from a
public school. (2) There- are no vacancies.
The school is staffed by departmental teach-
ers whose health has temporarily failed.
(1) What opportunities to engage in re-
search work are open to a hoy of 16 with d
leaning towards chemistry? (2) Does he
need to matriculate? —748.
(1) None for an unqualified lad. Many
in later life after a University course and
graduation. (2) Yes.
(1) When is the most favorable time
for a small-boat cruise of the Q’land
c ast, Barrier Reef and Gulf of Papua? (2)
i '/here arc charts procurable, and the Admi-
ralty Book of Sailing Instructions? —6s2.
(1) From May to September. (2) You
can buy them from Turner and Henderson,
16 Hunter-street, Sydney. The Q’land Sail-
ing Directions (3s. 6d.), procurable from the
Q’land Marine Department, will also be
found useful.
Is a simple home-made barometer possible,
and hoiv does it work? —631.
The barometer in its simple form consists
of a glass tube about 30in. long, sealed
at one end and open at the other, which
stands inverted in a shallow cistern contain-
ing mercury. The glass tube, from which all
air has been extracted, is filled with mercury
and then inverted in the cistern. The varying
pressure of the air causes the mercury to
rise and fall. In a home-made barometer
a smaller bottle takes the place of the glass
tube and is inverted in a larger bottle. In
this case, water is used instead of mercury.
In all precision instruments of this type,
mercury is used owing to its greater density
and to the fact that it is scarcely affected
by evaporation.
I bought a house exactly two years ago
for £675; £5O deposit and remainder on
terms, 30s. per week, quarterly rests, 8 per
cent. (1) How much principal have I paid
off? (2) How long' will it take to pay off
the balance? —823.
(1) £6O Is. 9d. (2) Ten years and 49
weeks.
If I borrow £5OO at 7 per cent, what
weekly instalment, covering principal and
interest, will repay it in 10 years?-— 856.
With interest calculated at quarterly rests,
the usual practice, £1 6s. lOd.
Would a Tangye boiler working at max.
50 lb. steam pressure be strong enough to
■work a Worthington steam pump with (jin.
suction and a ~jin. delivery pipe, lifting
water to a height of 20 ft.? —773.
If it is big enough to drive an engine of 6
to S h.p. it will drive a duplex steam pump
with Sin. diameter steam cylinders, 7in.
diameter water cylinder, lOin. stroke,
approximate list capacity 14,900 gallons per
hour, which could lift water to a height of
20 feet.
(1) Who should preside and who should
speak at a public welcome to the State Gov-
ernor tvhen he visits a country town? (2)
Who should preside when he has been in-
vited to open, an agricultural show? (3)
Should a printed address of welcome be pre-
sented on such occasions? —692.
(1) The chairman of the district council
should preside. Those attending would be
selected by the chairman, and speakers
limited to representatives of special interests
of the district. The members of Parliament
for the district should be invited. (2) The
president of the society which has invited the
Governor. (3) Optional. They are not now
usually presented, except -to Royalty or in
special circumstances.
(1) Would it pay to hawk fruit in the
outlying portions of the Gunnamulla ( Q. )
district? (2) Would it pay to purchase
direct from growers? (3) Average Brisbane
market price per case of oranges, lemons,
apples and pears? (4) Would it pay to buy
fruit from N.S.W. growers? —642.
(1) Can’t say; much depends upon the
hawker and the season. (2) Your best plan
would be to make arrangements with a whole-
sale fruit merchant. (3) Current average
prices are: Oranges, Bs. 6d.; lemons, 10s.;
apples, 145.; and pears, 15s. per case. These
are subject Jto seasonal fluctuations. (4)
No.
What steps must be taken to add a codicil to
a will? —898.
A codicil must executed with the same
formalities as the principal will. See that
the attestation clause, declaring that the
codicil has been properly signed and wit-
nessed, is in correct form. No one receiving
a benefit under the codicil should be a wit-
ness to it. There must be two witnesses and
they must sign in the presence of one
another. It may be written on a blank
space following the will.
Aboriginal names for a house on a hill over-
looking the sea or a fixed abode in a quiet
place?'—SOl.
Coolamatong (“water near a hill”), Elan-
ara (“home by the sea”), Iluka (“near the
sea”), Toongabbie (“place near the water”),
Yallambee (“to dwell or stay”), Woonah (“a
resting-place”), Illalangi (“camp on a hill”),
Allambie (“a quiet place”).
My employer has two businesses, one under
his own name and one styled A B and Go.,
Ltd. Each month my salary is transferred
to my credit in the books of A B and Go., on
whom I have been drawing for goods but not
for cash, letting the surplus stand. Where
do I stand in law if A B and Co. go bank-
rupt? Do I have to fall in line with ordi-
nary creditors, or have I a preferential claim
for wages? —B99.
It is a very unusual case, and it looks as
if you would have to come in as an ordinary
creditor. If you can conveniently exhaust
your credit on the books of the co. by draw-
ing supplies to its full amount do so at once,
and if you want to be safe in future insist
on direct periodical payment of wages.
(1) How long would it take a running
stream to drive sap from boards cut out of
a green log r ( spotted gum)? (2) Would it
make any difference if boards were submerged
top of tree up-stream as against butt of tree
up-stream? —739.
(1) No research has been done in this
direction, _ so far as we can ascertain,
but • it is probable that some months
would be required to leach the natural sap
from lin. boards. (2) As the sap would be
dissolved chiefly through the sides of the
boards, the point is of no importance.
What height must a recruit be for the
N.S.W. police force (foot) ? Also weight,
chest measurement and age when admitted?
Must an applicant apply personally? —662.
Not less than sft. 9in. in height in bare
feet, and list. 71b. in weight naked, with a
chest measurement of 39£in. at inspiration.
The minimum age is 20; maximum 27, save
in the case of returned soldier, for whom
the maximum is 30. Personal application
is compulsory.
(1) Where can I obtain information or
assistance with regard to making a start
as a musical-comedy actor? (2) Could Ibe
trained in eccentric and novelty dancing?
(3) Fees for tuition by representative teach-
ers? (4) As a member of a J.G.W. chorus,
ivbuld I be afforded opportunities and encour-
agement for more individual work if I showed
ability? —B9s.
(1) There is a voice trial held at Her
Majesty’s Theatre, Sydney, at 1 p.m. every
Tuesday. (2) Try the Minnie Hooper School
of Stage Dancing, Macquarie-street, Sydney.
(3) Depends on your requirements. Apply
to the school. (4) Yes.
Is the cradle that was used by the early
alluvial miners considered an efficient gold-
saving machine, apart from its slowness, and,
ivould it be an efficient tin-saving machine?
—B4l.
A cradle requires more water than a pan,
and the latter stands first as an efficient
apparatus. Cradling is neither expeditious
nor economical. It loses fine gold and tin,
and its working capacity is not more than
one-fifth of that of the “tom” and less than
one-tenth of that of an ordinary sluice.
(1) What salary is paid to a Glass 111
teacher in N.S.W.? (2) Is a living allow-
ance paid to teachers in remote districts?
(3) What subjects would a teacher of Glass
111 grade in Q’land be credited with by the
N.S.W. Department? (4) Would an accoun-
tancy certificate (Federal Institute) be an
advantage to d N.B.W. teacher? —610.
(1) Teachers in charge: 3A (men), £358
17s. 4d. p.a.; (women), £289 13s. 7d. p.a.
3B (men), £332 17s. 4d. p.a.; (women),
£263 13s. 7d. Assistants: 3 A (men), £307
17s. 4d.; (women), £250 13s. 7d.; 3B (men),
£2SO 17s. 4d.; (women), £224 13s. 7d. (2)
Varying amounts up to £5O per annum. (3)
Credit is given for five subjects, English
being essential. . (4) No.
(1) In American political life, what is
“Tammany”? (2) How docs the system
work ? —9lB.
(B) A Democratic organisation operating
in Now York and aiming chiefly at municipal
control of that city. (2) In theory it is based
on humanist principles, and believes in giving
the bottom dog a lielping baud; in pract.ce
it became, under such leaders as Tweed and
Croker, an organisation which sedulously
cultivated the art of robbing the public.
Despite its bad record it still functions as a
powerful factor in New York civic and State
politics.
In playing the game of euchre, must a
player hold at least one card of a suit to
make it trumps? —B94.
No, though it is impossible to see what
advantage he could hope to gain hy making,
say, hearts trumps without having a heart
in his hand. Even in four-handed euchre it
would be a desperate chance to take.
(1) How can the various kinds of mahog-
any ( Honduras , African, Brazilian and Phil-
ippine, especially the first) be distinguished
from each other and from other woods? (2)
Name of textbook giving qualities, charac-
teristics, etc., and especially the distinguish-
ing features of various woods used for
cabinet-making? (3) Which is the better
color to stain mahogany, brown or dark-redf
—729.
(1) Can’t say in space available; so many
different varieties are sold under each of the
trade names mentioned. (2) “Timbers of
Commerce and their Identification,” by H.
Stone, and “Wood,” by G. S. Boulger. (3)
Brown. Helpful advice will be found in
A. A. Kelly’s “The Expert Wood Finisher.”
Hoiv is green-ginger preserve made? —7B7.
Scald the rhizomes for half an hour; scrape
the outside skin or scrub with a stiff-bristled
brush. Simmer for two hours in water, and
afterwards gradually add sugar and boil for
one hour. Continue this treatment for 10
days, adding a little sugar to the original
syrup until the required density is obtained.
Be careful that it does not burn.
Are bullets from machine-guns mounted on
aeroplanes fired through the blades of the
propeller? —962.
Yes; in some cases a synchronising gear
safeguards the propeller blades against
injury.
Recipe for chilli beer? —568.
Two gallons water, 20 chillies, 31b. sugar,
2oz. cream of tartar, juice of 2 or 3 lemons,
2 tablespoons yeast. Boil the chillies in
3 quarts water, 20 minutes. Add sugar and
cream of tartar, strain, add remainder of
water, the strained lemon juice and the
yeast. Bottle, cork, and tie down at once.
Recipe for orange wine? —334.
Wash the oranges, cut into rough pieces,
place in a wooden or enamel tub, and break
them up by pounding with wooden masher.
Cover with boiling water, let stand from one
to three weeks, excluding dust with a muslin
cloth. Strain eff liquor, and for every gallon
allow 31b. sugar. Stir well, and let ferment
in a tub for 10 days. When fermentation
is finished, add loz. isinglass and raisins
to every 9gal. Bottle in about six months;
improves with keeping. A little whisky or
brandy may be added with the isinglass and
raisins.
Simple method of treating and preparing
tripe so as to keep a few days in doubtful
weather? —704.
Scrape and clean thoroughly, wash finally
in coldest water procurable, pat it dry in
a tea towel, and hang in an airy place in
the shade. Turn twice a day so that no
folds remain airless. Or clean well, par-
tially boil in lightly salted water, and stand
aside in a china basin without a lid. Tim
liquid should be retained and should just
cover the tripe. Bring to the boil every day
for a few minutes.
Information Supplied.
524.—T0 prevent condensation on the
underside of an iron roof at night, coat it
with granulated cork. Apply a coat of paint,
and while it is still wet spray the cork on.
Another and more satisfactory method is to
equip the roof space with ventilators, so that
heated air may escape.—P.D.R.
210.—1 n making coke breeze bricks, a
mould must be made if a block-making
machine is not available. The standard size,
16in. x Bin. x Bin., allows for a core to be
inserted for hollow walls if required. A “face
down” machine, which enables a waterproof
face to be put on a block of any quality,
should be selected. If a side-face machine
is used, the material must be of better quality
or cemented afterwards. The coke should be
broken to the gauge required for the block.
With a solid block 2in. gauge may be used,
but for hollow blocks lin. is better. Six
parts of coke, 3 of sand and 1 of cement
make a good mixture for “face-down” blocks
with a face of 1 part cement and 2 sand.
For a block that cannot be faced use 2 parts
sand. The sand should be sharp and clean
(free from clay). Mix the materials on a
clean floor, turning them over three times
dry and again three times while water is
being added with a water-can. Use the
material as wet as you can handle it, and
as soon as it sets hard enough not to wash
water again ; keep watered freely for three
weeks. The more water you can get in while
the blocks are setting the stronger they will
be.—H.J.R.
Brief Answers.
P.P. No; she can marry only on the
production to the minister or registrar of a written
consent by parent, guardian or guardian of minors.
. ...R.S.: (1) to (6) Will answer later. (7) and
(8) Apparently all you parted with was the pos-
session of the land and not its ownership ; ownership
would have passed only on completion of the pur-
chase. You are therefore liable for the rates....
S.F.L.: They are oUno use... .A.A.R.: The supply
there exceeds the demand... .T. 1.: (1) Duties con-
sist of keeping books and usually the receipt and
issue of station supplies, etc. (2) There’s no award.
. ...J.H.: You should seek treatment at the ortho-
paedic department of Sydney General, Prince Alfred,
North Shore or South Sydney Hospital... .J.H.T.:
It is not contagious. No certain cure is known,
but Unguentum Lassar will give partial relief applied
twice a day. Exposure to sunshine of the affected
parts is recommended... .J.K.: There’s no known
cure for baldness in cases where disease of the scalp
is not responsible... .N.M.: Presume you refer to
Ivedumba Valley (N.S.W.), which is situated at the
head of Burragorang Valley. It is reached by way
of the King’s Tableland, the nearest railway station
being Wentworth Falls... .E.C.: (1) Eeliah, with
the accent on the “i” as in “ice.” (2) Vayleema,
the final “a” as in “coma”... .G.J.L.: (1) Value of
frozen rabbits and hares exported from Australia for
1924-25 was £310,683 ; for 1925-26, £399,039;
and for 1926-27, £303,752. N.S.W. figures for the
three periods were £299,991, £340,171 and
£257,641. (2) Value of rabbit and hare skins
exported for 1924-25 was £2,482,933 ; for 1925-26,
£2,874,582; and for 1926-27, £2,832,128. N.S.W.
figures for the three periods were £2,112,674,
£2,231,637 and £2,437,010. (3) Not available.
(4) It is estimated for instance that N.S.W. con-
sumes about four million pairs of rabbits annually.
(5) It takes an important place, but, of course, is
in no way comparable to the products mentioned. ...
F.C.A.: The Royal Economic Society is’ not repre-
sented in Australia. Write to the secretary, J. M.
Keynes, at 9 Adelphi-terrace, London, W.C.2. There
is a somewhat similar body here called the Economic
Society of Australia and N.Z. G. L. Wood, Melb.
Uni., is the secretary... .R.A.L.: Correspondence
instruction can be secured in electrical, steam,
mechanical, motor, hydraulic, civil and structural
engineering and many other subjects in which the
use of machinery enters. Write to any of the older
business colleges for a copy of their prospectus....
A.H.: We know of no book that would exactly suit
your requirements... .H.W.J.: (1) Answer later. (2)
Ice and Cold Storage (monthly, Is.), Gordon and
Gotch.... V.S.V.: (1) and (2) The “u” sound in
absolutely, suit, lute and lunatic is the same
A.D.: (1) When there is just cause on the production
of evidence, the Court may on application to it
modify or discharge its order for alimony. (2) Grass-
mere-road, Cremorne, Sydney A.R.: The rent
received is assessable as income from property and
you are not entitled to a deduction for the rent paid.
. ...A.8.: W.A. Works Department experiences no
difficulty in securing bridge carpenters whenever they
are required. It would be unwise to go there without
a job to go t0....M.G.T.: Every person who holds
any interest in land in Victoria, the value of which
exceeds £250, is liable for State land-tax. The
existence of improvements does not exempt the
land from taxation L.C.E.: Send the plate to a
dentist, who should be able to remove the stain and
polish the denture... .H.C.M.K.: (1) Bom May 19,
1865. (2) Born Jan. 31, 1885. (3) Can’t say. Her
age is not divulged in reference books W.W..-
Australians travelling to N.Z. do not require a
passport, but must have a clearance from the income-
tax authorities. Fares range from £6 10s. to £l4
10s R.M.: (1) Question too vague. (2) Kramat
is an Arabic -word for a hallowed spot; it is in use
in India. (3) A Christian marrying one of a
different religion in India would either contract a
civil marriage or be married in a church belonging
to his denomination W.L.H.: Cashmere blue are
the most saleable. We can’t give a valuation without
inspection. Send samples to a Sydney gem merchant.
H.N.: From F. T. Wimble and Co., 35 Clarence-
street ; or Edwards, Dunlop and Co., 123 Clarence-
street —both of Sydney D.H.P.: Communicate
with the District Stock Inspector at Merriwa
(N.S.W.). Wombats are protected in your district,
but if they are doing substantial damage you should
write to the Chief Secretary and ask him to cancel
the protection.... S.M.: Apply to Somerset House,
London. A certified copy can be obtained for 9d.
per folio (60 words), plus Is. stamp duty and
postage F.W.K.: You should notify the Regis-
trar A.A.; A deed of separation does not affect
a husband’s rights with regard to the property of
his deceased wife... .G.D.S.: Duncan Macdougall,
The Playbox, 11 Bowe-street; Miss Carrie Tennant,
Burdekin House, Macquarie-street; D. J. Finlay,
Turret Theatre Club, Somerset House, Martin-place;
and Miss Alice Gould, 67 Middle Harbor-road, Lind-
field —all of Sydney G.M.: Write Dept, of Agri-
culture, Melbourne, for pamphlet... .H.C.H.: Gov-
ernment Insurance Office of N.S.W., Mint Building,
Macquarie-street, Sydney T.R.D.: Receipts for
wages in N.S.W. are exempt from stamp duty....
F.L.C.: Apply Secretary, Air Board, Dept, of Defence,
Melbourne... .N.F.W.: (1) Try Mick Simmons, Ltd.,
George-street; or Craig and Aitken, 654 George-street
—both Sydney. (2) It would be wise to take out
a provisional patent.... M.N.: Notable 100yds. runs
by women are: Mme. Radideau (Paris, 1926), 11
l-ssec.; Miss R. Grose (Toronto, 1926), 11 l-10sec. ;
Bessie Grandemange (Mudgee, N.S.W., 1916),
11 2-ssec.; and Norma Wilson (Wellington, M.L.
1928), 11 2-ssec C.S.D.: See “Mining Year Book,
1929,” edited by Walter. E. Skinner.... J.S.: (1)
Of course it’s a gamble, and always was ; even now
it may be a winner, though the chances are small.
(2) Yes. (3) Yes, but you’ll have to wait—all
those things are slow to mature. (4) No open
market; but the secretary may have a buyer....
Buzz: Gloomy. See reply to No. 4, previous question.
P.R.T.: If you mean “Are they solvent?”
yes; but you are not likely to get much in the
way of bonuses for a long while... .W.P.J.: They
are still a very good gamble. But we don’t recom-
mend a purchase unless you are a gambler....
Georgiana Street: That’s really like asking whether
it’s better to buy bread or boots. Each is best for
its own purpose... .Alpha Beta: Depends. If y ou
are prepared to take considerable risks to possibly
win a big prize, yes. If safety is the first con-
sideration, no.. .0.A.5.: Quite true. But that doesn’t
make them safe, because the debenture-holder comes
in first C.M.C.: (1) Yes, if you are prepared to
take a very substantial risk. (2) Certainly not.
(3) No, that isn’t a serious factor... .P.B. ■ It is
not in our 1907 list. Ask T. P. Husband, 70
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, if he can trace it. That
office is of high repute.... (Many others mailed.)


who travels on
DUNLOP
*’ . • ' • '■ .
travels well!
-
- y *U~%
=—s-5-
V4t <1
IffgZ
■ '#
Ml -.^3
H
SSSSSS
? V/
-Oi
3
mV % 'as
MM;, >s
n
•*%
;
ti-ifn
r.„ v
C
tE>f •
J^li^,7. r -^"
4*T3
<«llii
'(Hu.;,.
HAb_r
00/f Sft
u
n
»
*
K»
O Ni -OA
M 9
W *
Y7**z
n
*34
■nWWt
JsJflli
miiiii
fL
h;
4
0
•4
*
p
p
m
fAm
m
fPS
1
l«
° u P'ay
DCti-^
m
E
2£w 00/f /
r<?E7 ooq
Oca a n
fcSi
«/
on
□ 3
04Q
oo
i»/
3 D a ao
O a a pi>
mi
wh
Fr
I Si® '7
m Huoti. i
m n 3/ l
./* e acJi /
- oni f> r , -■».
** ■%><> °* 2 b »«*
U «POtM
Dunlop not only ensures
care-free mileage above
the ordinary—but strength
...traction...reliability and
comfort which will help
you to get the best out
of motoring.
* * *
8000 GARAGES STOCK DUNLOP


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney!
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
è
Why be satisfied with less?
SHARE in the benefits that P. & C. Assurance brings ! When times
are hazardous the company keeps policies in force ; a definite
sum is set aside each year for loan purposes. P. & C. policies
are planned to meet the special needs of the man on the land—these
are the things that have resulted from the co-operative basis of the
P. &C. The further fact that the company is linked with the most
influential co-operative bodies in the Commonwealth is yet another
factor in the stability of the company. When such advantages can
be obtained at no extra cost, why be satisfied with less ?
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS f/CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD._
lib 114- IXO CASTLE REAQH ST. SYDNEY J
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic P.isk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers' Compensation,
etc., etc.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
MORE PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
The winners of the prizes offered for
the most helpful contributions to ‘'The
Bulletin’s” Land pages during the past six
months will be announced on July 10.
In order to encourage farmers to pass
oiy to others the fruits of their observa-
tion and experience, “The - Bulletin” will
give three prizes for the most helpful
contributions during the six months to
Dec. 31 next. I
Points will be awarded for every con-
tribution submitted, if thought worthy and
whether printed or not, and two prizes—
the first of £25 and the second of £lo—
be given to the winners of most
points.
A special prize of £5 will be given for
the best individual contribution.
Only contributions that are of practical
value to men on the land are asked for;
literary merit is not taken into account, so
long as the meaning is expressed plainly.
The prizes are in addition to the ordi-
nary payments made for all “Bulletin”
contributions.
“The Bulletin” is to be the judge of
merit, and reserves the right to call in
practical outsiders as assessors.
PASTURE MANAGEMENT AND TOP-
DRESSING.
“Vernon”: Many graziers are top-dressing
pastures which are made up of grasses that
are of very little value for grazing purposes
all the year round. In New England
(N.S.W.), for example, most grazing land
contains a very large proportion of red kan-
garoo-grass. This grass, while very good in
the spring (and also in the summer if the
season is wet and not too hot), is no good
whatever in a dry spell or in the winter.
It will kill stock (from impaction) in a dry
time quicker than starvation. Therefore, to
top-dress a pasture of this nature is only a
waste of money.
The best way to treat this grass is to eat
it well into the ground in the spring and keep
the pasture well stocked till the winter, thus
not giving it a chance to seed. Then in the
latter part of the winter top-dress with
super., and in the spring it will be found
that the better types of grasses, such as
wallaby and clovers, will make a much
more prolific growth than they have done
before. However, it cannot be expected that
the best types of grasses will appear after
top-dressing if the seeds or roots were not
present in the soil before top-dressing.
If there is only a little of an undesirable
grass there is no need to trouble about eat-
ing it out. Just top-dress with Ito cwt.
super, to the acre. The greater quantity
gives a more lasting effect.
It has been found useful to mix about 21b.
of clover seed for every acre to be put down
with the super., as with the super, the
clover will germinate and grow without any
cultivating or harrowing. Don’t mix seed
with super, more than 24 hours before it is
to be used. If mixed for long without being-
sown the seed Gradually loses its germinating
powers, and after 10 days or a fortnight is
practically useless.
The N.S.W. Department of Agriculture,
after a great deal of experimenting, has proved
top-dressing to be an absolute success wher-
ever the average rainfall is more than 17in.
per year. Besides materially increasing the
nutritive value of the grass, top-dressing
makes two blades grow where one did before
and more than doubles the carrying capacity
of the land.
If only a part of a paddock has been top-
dressed, often no difference can be seen
between the top-dressed and the ordinary
pasture, but the stock will soon discover a
marked difference, and it will be noticed that
they graze almost continually on the top-
dressed portion.
Although top-dressing will not give such
good results as the laying-down of pastures
of phalaris or cocksfoot, it has the advantage
that parts that cannot be ploughed because
of their stony nature or other such causes
usually can be attended to and will respond
well.
LINSEED NUTS FOR EWES IN LAMB.
“Yeoman”: I have had two recent ex-
periences of hand-feeding lambing ewes that
emphasise the value of a supplementary
ration of concentrates rich in albuminoids
when pastures are dry and getting scarce nr
stubble is the main source of feed. Stubble
and most dry pastures are deficient in protein
and incapable of producing a milk flow. In
1926 I pastured 1100 breeding ewes, taking
the lambs in payment. These ewes were the
last of a station flock that drought had dis-
persed, and the owner wished to retain them
to breed from when the seasons changed. They
were shifted to my property during the third
week in February, and were due to commence
lambing three weeks later. They were put
on good stubble, but, anticipating that the
feed was inadequate, I ordered a supply of
linseed nuts. Owing to a strike the nuts
were not delivered until early in April. By
that time 75 per cent, of the ewes had lambed
and very few lambs had been saved, because
the milk flow was lacking. But immediately
the nuts were available the mortality ceased.
The remainder of the ewes showed a full
udder as their lambs were dropped, and the
latter thrived from the start. The contrast
with those that had lambed prior to the
arrival of the nuts was most striking. Had
the nuts been available a month earlier a
90 per cent, lambing would have been assured,
instead of 24 per cent.
This year conditions were again dry and
feed scarce owing to the absence of autumn
and early winter rains. I commenced feed-
ing 800 ewes in April with linseed nuts
and continued until rains early this month
assured green feed. The result is that a
good percentage of lambs will be marked.
Neighbors who let their ewes take a chance
will not mark 25 per cent. In my experience
every fl expended in linseed nuts on ewes
lambing on dry feed will return at least £lO
in lambs saved.
LAMBS FOR EXPORT.
“L.A.F.”: “A.J.8.” (B. 12/6/’29) is
grinding the axe the wrong way when he
criticises the Suffolk as a fat-lamb getter.
The lamb that gives the biggest return is the
one that is got off youngest, yet weighs the
heaviest. ~ A lot of theorising goes on about
export weights, etc., but after some years’
experience I find the heavy early-maturing
lamb is the money-earner every time. To
get such a lamb Dorset Horn or Suffolk
rams mated with crossbred eyres, and Border
Leice'sters for the finer types, are in a class
by themselves. Lambs bred like that, if
properly fattened, should kill at an average
of over 401 b. at 16 weeks.
The Suffolk ram is hardy and active, and
extremely prepotent. This year I joined two
Suffolk, two Dorset and four B.L. rams
with 4SO fine-cross ewes in the same paddock,
and the Suffolks got over 200 lambs between
them. Over a series of years I do not claim
any advantage for the Suffolk over the other
two, but I hold that if it wasn’t for the pre-
judice against black faces he would be just
as popular among experienced graziers.
WORLD SHORTAGE OF BEEF.
“Curlew”: Considerable attention is being
given, to the serious shortage of beef cattle
practically throughout the world. Last year
Argentine slaughtered 400,000' fewer than its
recent average. There they are turning over
to sheep or increasing their tillage. In five
years no fewer than 2,846,957 hectares of
lucerne have been uprooted, practically one-
third of the area laid down. In the U.S.A.
cattle in 1920 totalled 68v000,000; last year
only 55,000,000. There had been a great
increase in the numbers of pigs, but as
U.S.A. has been consuming more pork than
all other meat, supplies are inadequate and
prices going up. Since 1922 cattle in Aus-
tralia have decreased 20 per cent. Last
year Great Britain’s beef imports showed a
decrease of 8 per cent, compared with 1927,
and prices increased 16 per cent. Brazil
has about 85,000,000 cattle, but they are
a rough lot, not quite to the Britisher’s
liking. Better prices thus seem assured
for beef on the British market.
Breeding up supplies of cattle is a slow
process, but Australia, despite past discour-
agement, is already setting to work to
meet the oversea demand for beef by grading
up herds and improving and increasing beef
production. The change is being made with
all the more energy, because of the unfav-
orable outlook for wool.
CLASSIFICATION OF SOIL.
“P. Aitch”: Generally speaking, soil is
made up of two layers, surface soil and sub-
soil. The former is darker in color and
lighter in texture than the subsoil, but
in a good soil the line of demarcation
between the two is not pronounced. The
surface soil is usually richer in nitrogen
and phosphoric acid than the subsoil,
which in turn is richer in potash (and very
often lime) than the surface soil. The
darker the color of the surface soil, the more
humus and nitrogen will it contain. The
nearer a soil approaches pure sand, silt, clay
or humus (peat), the poorer it is in both
physical condition and plant food. Loams
which are evenly balanced as regards sand,
silt, clay and humus give the best results.
Look for depth in the surface soil and clay
in the subsoil, for the former gives the feed-
ing area and the latter the water holding-
capacity. When inspecting with the object
of buying a property, have a good look at
the banks of ditches on the environing roads
or any creek which may happen to run
through the property or an adjacent area.
This will give a good general idea of the
character and depth of the soil and subsoil.
Beware of bad drainage and silt or gravel
bands, which often occur between soil and
subsoil (too deep for subsoiling), for these
soils are the most unsatisfactory.
Silt loam surface soils (be.* those contain-
ing an excess of silt) which when dried and
rubbed between the hands feel even and vel-
vety are to be avoided, as they form a
cementlike crust in summer, and are
“spewy” in winter. Sandy soils have a low
water holding capacity, retaining about 12
per cent, of water when mellow, whilst the
heavy clay soils retain approximately 30 per
cent, and the peaty soils up to 50 per cent, of
water. Pure peat will hold more than twice
its own weight of water, and this is ■ one of
the reasons why peaty soils are so suitable
for the growth of root crops. Light soils, in
which sand predominates, are the earliest,
whereas heavy clay soils are late.
You may classify the soil as to whether
it is a sand, silt clay, clay loam, etc., by the
following simple method ; and not only will
the result be interesting, but very often
useful, especially where water is available
for irrigation, as a soil to be suitable for
irrigation should be permeable, and the per-
meability will depend upon the amount of
coarse particles (be., sand and fine gravel)
it contains. Puddle half a cup of soil in a
breakfast cup, using a blunt rod (a four-inch
bolt will do), taking care to break up all
the lumps excepting stones. Pill the cup
with rain water, and quickly pour the mass
into a pickle bottle. Add rain water until
the pickle bottle is three parts full, then
shake the contents vigorously for a couple
of minutes. Allow to stand two minutes,
and then pour the muddy liquid off into an-
other pickle bottle. Add water again to the
remainder of the soil in the first pickle bottle,
and repeat the operation, but this time allow
to stand only half a minute before pouring
off. Repeat the operation a third time, and
pour off at once into pickle bottle No. 3.
The original bottle will now contain the sand
and gravel, bottle No. 3 will contain mainly
fine sand, and the other two bottles the clay
and silt. Add a little lime, say, as much as
will stay on a threepenny piece, to the bottles
containing the clay and silt —be., the first
and second decantations—shake well and
allow to stand for half an hour. The clear
liquid can now be poured from each bottle,
and you obtain a fair idea, on viewing the
contents of the bottles, of the mechanical
condition of the soil.
All depressions and low-lying ground
should be carefully tested, because this is
where salt trouble will show if it exists. Dig
a hole down to the subsoil—at least ISin.
deep—in the suspected part, and take out
a handful of the soil. Place this in a pickle
bottle three parts full of rain water, and
shake vigorously for three or four minutes.
Now place the bottle and its contents on a
post and allow it to remain undisturbed for
half an hour. If by this time the subsoil
has settled and the water remains clear on
top, the soil is salty. Should the water
remain muddy, salt cannot be present in
excessive quantity.
When this test gives an affirmative result,
it is advisable to submit a pound sample
to the agricultural chemist of your State,
whose analysis will give the exact amount
of salt which is present.
Another evidence of salt is the presence of
bare patches on high and low lands. These
generally take the form of circles in pasture
land, and usually in the area left by a burnt-
off stump or a crab hole.
If you find salt on your property you must
drain the soil. If you detect it on a pro-
perty which you are thinking of purchasing,
refuse to buy.
WINTER FALLOW. .
“Silentio”: The man, who ploughs his cul-
tivation land now will reap a better crop
than the fellow who leaves the turning-over
till the spring. On winter-fallowed land,
frosts kill the many insects and pests that
lurk underground. The winter fallow also
helps to keep weed growth down, and the ac-
tion of the frosts will tend to sweeten the soil,
but the greatest advantage is the conserva-
tion of moisture. A well-opened field will
get all the benefits of rain and dew, and the
sun’s rays, not being powerful now, won’t
rob the soil of much of it.
If you strike a dry spring, ploughing will
be a pretty hard job and the ground hard
and cold. Winter-fallowed soil will be friable
and crumbly, and the moisture below will be
sufficient to get the crop almost to maturity,
even if there is no further rainfall.
The same rule applies to vegetable and
flower gardens. Beds not under present
cultivation should be manured and turned
, over in the rough, so that when spring comes
you can plant at the earliest possible oppor-
tunity—it’s the early crops that pay, especi-
ally if you live in a place where the sum-
mers are severe.
A CATCII HAY CROP.
“Ilortus”: Sometimes it happens that an
oat-for-liay crop does not look promising, or
perhaps a farmer has, owing to a dry spell,
left his sowing rather too late to meet with
success. If he is in a climate that does not
go to extremes of heat or cold, he can always
fall back on soya beans as an emergency hay
crop. No special soil is required; in fact,
a fairly poor soil serves the purpose best.
This question of soil is a great advantage,
for the beans will thrive on soils too poor
or too sour for clover or lucerne. The quan-
tity of seed per acre varies with the size
of the seed, but a fair average would be
about 81b. Work the ground well before
sowing by harrowing and cross-harrowing
until the soil is brought to a fine tilth to a
depth of about four inches. Rows should be
three feet apart. Use a wheat-drill, and
block up all but a few of the tubes.
Sow a little later than for maize, so that
early growth may not be checked. The beans
take only about four months to reach the
hay or fodder stage. Not only does the
farmer obtain a quick and fairly heavy (1£
to 2 tons) return in normal circumstances,
but he gets a hay which is about equal in
feeding value to lucerne hay and superior
to clover hay. The best time to cut is when
the seeds are about half-developed.
The beans, being leguminous, enrich the
soil through bacterial activity, and they are
to all appearances disease-resistant. They
are also fairly drought-resistant, and can
stand a fair amount of frost without notice-
able injury.
CALCULATING HAYSTACK TONNAGE.
"Yeoman” : While the weight of hay varies
with its quality, a fairly accurate estimate
can be made of the weight of a stack if the
size of stack, age of same and its quality
and condition are taken into consideration.
The following schedule of the allowance of
cubic feet per ton of hay is reliable for
estimating the weight of a stack when the
cubic contents are known :
Cubic Feet peu Ton op Siieap Hay.
Oaten. Wheaten.
On completion .. .. 350 375
One week after. . .. 325 350
One month after .. 300 325
Twelve months after .. 275 300
A reliable method for determining the
cubic contents of a stack is to multiply (in
feet) the length by the breadth. Then add
together the height from the ground to the
eaves and one-third of the height from the
eaves to the peak, and multiply the first pro-
duct by this.
LEMON CURING.
“Sam Phire” : Success or otherwise in the
lemon-curing business is determined early in
the piece; it depends on the handling of the
fruit. Lemons must be handled more care-
fully than eggs. In California a picker or
packing-houseman must on no account handle
lemons without gloves. This eliminates nail
scratches. The fruit are picked into a canvas
bag and rolled out of that carefully on to
trays. They must be cut off the tree with
the “button” left on, and cut short so that
no stub ends are left which would puncture
other fruit in contact. Bruised, punctured
or imperfect fruit are no good for keeping,
and will only spread disease amongst perfect
fruit with which they come in contact.
They can be picked as soon as of market-
able size. Fruit that colors as it comes
to size must be graded out for more or less
immediate disposal, but for long keeping only
perfect fruit which is about 90 per cent,
green should be used. After being graded
the fruit should be washed in a very light
bluestone solution, which can be warm (about
90deg, F.), should there be much dirt or
honeydew to remove, the latter being promi-
nent where scale is bad. They are then
placed on trays of a suitable size (one layer
only) and placed in the curing-room wet.
The trays have a cleat on each end, so that
when stacked a free circulation is permitted
all round each tray.
Curing lemons is a matter of the regu-v
lation of temperature and humidity, depen-
dent on the time it is desired to keep the
fruit. Should a man have fruit, say, 80 per
cent, to 90 per cent, green and he wishes to
market at once, he follows the usual pro-
cedure but raises the temperature to about
95deg. F„ when he can get 100 per cent
color in about 40 hours. This harsh treat-
ment will incline to shrivel the skin a little
but in no way hurt the fruit. It is known
as sweating. Curing is the same thing
(Continued on page 31.)


A Garden Lover’s Friend
•V
''■rsce
A,. W'
><! '
; r *
1/
&f>e
Kerotin
Spray Pump
is a splendid little spray pump
for use in small Orchards and
the Flower Garden. It is made
of brass throughout and fitted
with a strong iron foot.
Supplied as illustrated with
Graduating or Ordinary Spray
Nozzle. Also with Extension
pipe for spraying taller trees.
USEFUL for many purposes
The Kerotin has also proved to be an ideal
pump for applying Lime Wash and Disin-
fectants in Fowlhouses, Cattle Sheds, etc.,
and for Washing Windows, the Buggy or
the Car. Fitted with a special nozzle it
becomes a most efficient Veterinary Pump
invaluable to Breeders of Cattle, etc.
We make a Wide range of Useful Sprink-
lers, Sprinkler Stands and other Spraying
Devices, Hose Nozzles and other Hose
Fittings. Our Illustrated Catalogue of Garden
Requisites will help you to decide on the
best means to make thorough watering a
certainty. It is Post Free on Request.
frtn
L
■AJ-d
aJ-' 7 '
gtmimimiimriu
I NOS*
amimiiiiiiiiii
NHOP 1
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
324-330 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
i I
mm
E.
I
YV
&
fHF SuNSH ,tN JE OF r HE NIGHT
Ben /fur
%
Big Ben
%
11
JO
Q
5
10
%
4
5
6
Baby Ben
Mighty Good Values!
BIG BEN, Baby Ben and Ben Hur are
typical of Westclox workmanship and
reliability. You can depend on them for
the correct time and a sure alarm. They
combine good looks with practical, every-
day usefulness.
There is a Westclox watch and a range
of Westclox alarms in nickel and in colour —
all dependable timekeepers. Prices range
from 8/6 to 28/6.
Built by the makers of Big Ben and other Westclox
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
BROWN & DUREAU LTD., Distributors for Australia
MELBOURNE SYDNEY PERTH BRISBANE
Have This Better Light
in Your Home, too
NIGHT after night throughout the year the
COLEMAN QUICK-LITE Lamp brings
300-Candlepower brilliance and helpful
comfort and happiness in more than a million
homes. It’s the cleanest, most economical
lamp you can buy; a cheerful, dependable
helper for every housewife.
MORE LIGHT THAN 20 OLD-STYLE OIL-LAMPS
—and none of the greasy wicks to trim or smoky
chimneys to wash. Gives 12 to 15 hours’ brilliant
service per quart of fuel used. It’s a safe lamp—
can’t spill fuel. Inspected, tested and guaranteed.
SAFE—DURABLE—CLEAN,
751-
COLEMAN QUICK-LITE CO.
of Australia,
185 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
718 HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO, SYDNEY.
31 BOWER BUILDINGS, CHARLES STREET, ADELAIDE.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL SUPPLIES, LTD., BOWEN STREET,
BRISBANE.
é
Quick-Lite
Lamps and
Lanterns
“The Sunshine of the Night"


m
I
I
1
///
S,
,//f'
'Hk
"*l/
I
4H
m
m
W
"A
m
ex XO
m
mm
mmmmm
HE originality of design,
smart curve of brim,
natural set on the head,
instantly mark the
Fayrefield as different
from other hats.
Not only because it is
Australian-made, but because of
its hard-wearing and shape-retain-
ing qualities, let your choice be a
Fayrefield
Select to-day from a wide variety
of shapes, sizes and shades.
ame
Sk
Merits with Nona
Obtainable at all the
leading Mercers
A PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT HATS PTY-
LTD


m
ET
Arched to fit perfectly
Over the instep, this Abbey Shoe
is shaped to follow the foot’s- natu-
ral curve. So it laces evenly and
closely without the least strain. All
the foot muscles are allowed full
play.
It is flexibly soled, and has the low-
cut sides which make for still
greater comfort and neatness of fit.
The upper is of pliant black calf
that glosses brilliantly.
ORDER BY POST
There are both full and half sizes—
each in three fittings—narrow,
medium and wide. Specify width
when ordering, and ask, also, for
a supply of the correct Abbey polish
(6d. per tin).
per
pair
421-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street, and 224 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
Telegraphic Address:
"ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
FPL 131
X
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess Insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of. a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
uut in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins .. . 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
POST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
A Llj AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing-mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit v the British Australian
and'New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
Loiidon, W.C.2, where they can see the hoim>
papers, meet their friends, use the telephon"
and , obtain information without charge.
Copies of the: paper and: general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or .434 Collins. Street, Melbourne.
Martin Ditcher
Hundreds of . Australian
pastoralists and farmers are
using the Martin Ditcher for
a score of purposes. It is
the most useful farm imple-
ment ever devised, quickly
saving the cost, £35, in
speed, efficiency and wages.
A
H* “*«& ''''
HC.
m
J. B. WALLIS, LTD.,
Challis House, Martin Place,
Sydney
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
168 Edward Street, Brisbane
T. T. B’ld’g, Light Square, Adelaide
Royal Arcade, Barrack Street, Perth
B.K.
D
A
DO
NEW MODEL.
DONALDS
WIRE STRAINER
BEST IN THE WORLD.
Requires no skill —takes an unlimited length of loose
wire—quick and efficient —does not damage the wire
—stretches plain, netted or barb—light, and folds
into small compass—stretches at any part of fence
or at post—works automatically. A vastly-improved
model now available. Classed b_v experienced fencers as Perfection.
PRICE. 22/6. POSTAGE: N.S.W., 1/6; INTERSTATE, 2/8. SEND FOR FREE CATALOGUE.
DONALD PATENTS LTD.
Obtainable All Stores. GLENMORE ROAD, PADDINGTON, SYDNEY.
Makers of the famous Donalds Woolpresses, Lifting Jacks, etc.
“KANGAROO”
WATER-COOLED SPRAY OUTFIT
ê
Four-wheeled trans-
port; oiled throughout
from the crankcase.
The magneto is the
very latest English
waterproof pattern.
The pump is very com-
pact ; the valves can
be got at by loosening
one nut. All parts
likely to be affected or
corroded by spray mix-
tures are of gunmetal.
All parts are standard-
ised. and replacements
can be forwarded with-
out delay. The Spray
vat holds 100 gallons.
When not in use for
spraying, the engine
can be disconnected
and used for numerous
small jobs (such as
pumping water, etc.),
around the house.
MANUFACTURED BY
D. & W. CHANDLER LTD.
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY, VICTORIA.
spread over two to four months or even
more. The most important factor in keeping
lemons a long period is a relative humidity.
At one time a low humidity was considered
ideal, but it was found that the fruit was
inclined to. lose its juice, the “meat” was
inclined to go “raggy” and the skin shriv-
elled outwardly. With a humidity relative
to that of the temperature these troubles
disappeared, so that to keep lemons,_ say,
four months, a temperature of about 60deg.
F. with similar degree of humidity is
ideal.
A word about “sweatrooms.” The ideal for
inland districts is a concrete room built two-
thirds in the ground and one-third out-
say 6ft. below and 3ft. above. The roof
should be such that outside temperature
has no effect on the inside of the room. In
California sweatrooms are built under the
packing-sheds. Windows are fitted above
the ground level, and there is no floor other
than strips of 3 x 2 laid on the earth (or
blocks) abqut 3in. apart. The thermometers
should be hung'so they can be read through
the windows. For a single room a kerosene
heater can be used to-keep the dry thermo-
meter at the desired level, and as soon as
the humidity inclines to drop this can be
raised by sprinkling the floor with water.
The windows are usually opened at. night
and closed-in the day.
I have mentioned certain temperatures for
sweating and curing, but it must-be remem-
bered they apply to another country. In
the inland .citrus belts here it will be neces-
sary to experiment to find the best condi-
tions ; but I feel certain, should anyone
go to the expense of building a room and do
a little experimenting, that the result will
return the- grower many times his outlay—
probably in the first season he has lemons
available in midsummer.
DEAD IN THE SHELL.
“Hatter”: Poultry-farmers will now be
getting things in trim for the hatching sea-
son. Bad hatches and mortality amongst the
baby chicks are the two chief- trials of the
rearer, but these can be reduced, to a mini- •
mum. Although the temperature and mois- ,
ture conditions of the incubator, or ithe
feeding of the chicks, may be at fault in
some cases, yet nature allows a fairly , gen-
erous margin, and, given ordinary care, bad
results are probably due to an entirely dif-
ferent cause.
One of the main factors in successful incu-
bation and rearing is the use of healthy
eggs. Many hens carry the germ of bacillary
white diarrhoea, which is transmitted to
their eggs. The presence of the disease
weakens the germ, and the egg frequently
fails to hatch. Should it hatch, it produces
a sickly chick, which is apt to infect any
others in the incubator or brooder.
By meaiis of a simple blood test it is pos-
sible to detect the infected hens, and by
passing them out of the breeding-pen the
disease is Controlled. A bulletin recently
issued by the Essex Institute of Agriculture
(England) states that on 15 farms the aver-
age chick mortality in 1927, before testing,
was 50 per cent. In 1928, after testing and
removing the reacting hens, the mortality
on the same farms dropped to 6 per cent.
The charge for testing is 6d. per head, and
the fact that last year over 20,000 birds were
sent up for testing shows that the Essex
poultry-keepers are fully Convinced of the
benefit derived from this practice. Poultry-
men here should confer to find some means
of providing the same facilities.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Why is it that tobacco is not mare
extensively grown in Australia? (2) What
class of soil suits it best, and what amount
of rainfall is required? (3) Could it be
grown profitably under existing conditions of
labor in Australia, and would there be a
ready sale here? —594.
(1) The two main difficulties have been
blue-mould disease and the difficulty of pro-
ducing leaf of sufficiently high quality to com-
pete with the imported tobacco used in manu-
facture. (2) For the flue-cured type of
tobacco, which is mainly grown in Australia,
a sandy or light sandy-loam soil is required.
Rainfall,- in the neighborhood of 4in. per
month, preferably evenly distributed through-
out the growing season. (3) Tobacco is
being grown fairly profitably in those dis-
tricts at present devoted to its commercial
culture. Provided a suitable quality of
tobacco could be produced there would be a
ready sale, and the existing conditions of
labor would not be prohibitive.
What are the symptoms of liver-flulce
disease in sheep? —72l.
Affected sheep, if driven, will be noticed
to be languid and easily fatigued. If exam-
ined, the membranes of eyes and mouth will
be seen to be anaemic. Later their gait may
become stiff; they will lose condition rather
rapidly, and dropsical swellings may develop
under jaws, chest and along the abdomen.
(1 )Name a reliable firm of land and estate
agents in Sydney? (2) Suitable district
within 20 miles of Sydney for poultry farm-
ing and the cultivation of cut flowers for
market (Northern line preferred) ? (3) Where
‘to obtain day-old chicks, Padman white Leg-
horn and Judson black Orpington? (4)
Price of day-old chicks per 100, and time of
year they are available? (5) What effect
has the recently-formed egg pool on the
market price of eggs, and how does it func-
tion? (6) Is there any direct export trade
in eggs? (7) What is the present price of
mill offal and wheat, f.o.r. Sydney? (8)
Eggs should be a standard weight for market-
ing; what is the minimum? (9) Is the
poultry-farming industry overcrowded at the
present time? (10) Where can I obtain the
Government poultry expert's book? —B24.
(1) There is no lack of reliable firms,
but you must make your own choice. (2)
Almost any district beyond 15 miles from
Sydney. There are suitable areas on the
Northern line between Ryde and Hornsby.
(3) Judson black Orpington chickens could
be obtained direct from Mr. 0. Judson, Dart-
ford-road, Thornleigh. Padman white Leg-
horns are practically non-existent. (4)
Between £5 and £7 per 100 for heavy breeds,
and £4 to £6 for Leghorns, but some breeders
charge more for chicks from selected pens.
They are usually available from June to
September. (5) The Egg Marketing Board
controls all the eggs produced in the coun-
ties of Cumberland and Northumberland, and
the shires of Wollondilly and Nattai.
It is rather early to pronounce judg-
ment on the operations of the board,
but they should benefit the producers.
(0) Most of the , eggs exported from
this State are forwarded direct to .London
by several of the largest egg-handling firms
in Sydney. . (7). Pollard, £7 per ton ; bran.
£7 per ton; wheat, 4s. 9d. per bushel. (Si
For the local market, first-grade, an average
of 2oz. —no egg to be less than l£oz.; second-
grade, between 'lfoz. and lloz.; third-grade,
or pullet eggs, below l|oz. . (9) No. (10)
The book “Poultry Farming in New South
Wales,” by James Hadlington, ; is available
from the Gov. Printer, Sydney, price 4s. 3d.,
including postage.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Silentio”: It’s not too soon to order your
seed-potatoes and get them spread out in a
clean, dry. shed. The man who “greens” his
spuds gets a better spin than one who sows
straight from the bag. The greened seed
develops stronger shoots, which are less
likely to knock off during planting season,
and from personal experience they seem to
do better all round, both in growth and crop
yield.
“Welruck”: In potato-manuring experi-
ments in Vic. it has been discovered that
sulphate of ammonia, lcwt. used as a dress-
ing previous to flowering, usually gives good
results. Being a nitrogenous manure, it
forces leaf growth. That, in reason, is good,
but if leaf growth is unduly forced the results
are bad. , By applying the ammonia reason-
ably early strong plants are constituted
capable of producing a satisfactory crop of
potatoes. A noteworthy instance was re-
corded at Portland this year, where lcwt.
of the sulphate, costing less than £l, gave
an increase of 1 ton 17cwt., worth about £22.
“K.N.”: When pruning, make sure the
secateurs are clean and sharp. Dip them
in kerosene before and after the day’s work
to kill off aphis, etc., which might otherwise
be carried from one tree to another. Don’t
leave “tails” on the' limbs. Always cut to
an .outgrowing bud, .and rub off most of the
ingrowing buds, which only keep out the
sunshine. After pruning give . the trees a
spray with Ilarbas or red oil. Burn the
residue of the pruning as soon as possible
to get rid of pests waiting there to breed
next season.
“T.A.W.” : Couch grass can he best eradi-
cated by acting on the knowledge that the
wiry curse hates frost and requires plenty
of sunlight to grow vigorously. Plough the
infested orchard in the beginning of winter
to a depth of three inches. In early spring,
before the young shoots start to sprout,
broadcast a crop off any thick-foliaged plant,
suitable to the soil and locality (golden tares,
dun peas or oats sown thickly will do).
When this cover crop matures and wilts,
burn it. Don’t attempt to plough it under.
Plough shallow again, and run the scarifier
through the orchard at least once a fort-
night. This regular working keeps the grass
in check till the following winter, when it
will be comparatively easy to plough up and
let the frost get its deadly work in.
“Math” : Coops where ducklings or chick-
ens are kept overnight should be raised
from the ground. This enables dogs and cats
to get beneath and hunt rats and mice. Also
it is warmer and more hygienic. There is
nothing worse for young poultry than a
mouldy, musty floor, which may cause diar-
rhoea. Pens built off the ground can be
easily washed out and the board floor dries
very quickly.
“Esau”: Affecting the feet of the birds in
many of the poultry runs of to-day are
two diseases —foot-itch and scale. The best
treatment in both cases is to use sulphur
ointment and a sand bath. Rub the sulphur
ointment into the feet with a soft tooth-
brush, and repeat as often as necessary.
Provide a sand bath in a small shed where
the birds can indulge themselves in rolling
and scratching, the bath being composed off
equal parts of sand, fine charcoal, ashes and
flowers of sulphur sifted together. As foot-
itch and scale are highly contagious scrub
down the roosts with hot water and soda.
Sulphur ointment may be cheaply made by
mixing one part flowers of sulphur and nine
parts of hogs’ lard, unsalted, using a table
knife and a clean, hard flat surface.
“Wilson J.”: Cutting warts off cows’ teats
with scissors, as is the practice with some
dairymen, is cruel, dangerous and unneces-
sary. From years of experience with Jersey
cows I have found the application of castor
oil after morning milking, and vinegar or
acetic acid after night milking, to be a sure
core. The warts come away leaving scarcely
any soreness, and a suitable ointment or
embrocation soon heals. With very obstinate
warts, a silk thread tied around the base
is better than cutting; but very seldom is
this necessary.
“R.X.8.” : Keep the brood sow on a light
diet to prevent her from becoming too fat.
She should receive only a limited quantity
of skim milk, but can be given unlimited
quantities of green feed. Maize cobs in the
evening are good. Limewater should be added
to the skim-milk. The addition of meat to
the diet has been found to produce remark-
able qualities in the born suckers, and in
recent experiments none of the sows on a
meat diet produced a single still-born sucker
or a runt. When lib. of meat was fed to
every 301 b. of maize, as against maize alone,
the increase in the weight of the sucker at
birth was from 1.741 b. to 2.011 b., and when
proportionally four times as much meat was
fed the increase of weight was from 1.741 b.
to 2.231 b. If you can’t get meat use meat
meals, best given in the form of soup or
mixed with skim milk.
“Wrafeh”: Bluestone ground to powder
mixed with sand Jn the proportion of one
to four and broadcast over marshy areas will
destroy the snails that cause liver fluke in
sheep.
“Karara”: The best antidote for a dog
that has eaten a strychnine bait is a tea-
spoonful of iodine. I . have known iodine to
cure after the dog had the second fit —in
that case .two - teaspoonfuls were given.


EXTRA HIGH GRADE
SMO&INQ TOBfleeO
/ its N
ualit
is x
Unequalled
IS per 2oz Tin
PAY AS YOU GO BY CHEQUE -
1 I 2
wJf-
1. It eliminates unwise spending,
2. It saves time and many steps in settling bills.
3. It gives prestige to your transactions.
4. It instils respect through your association with a reputable bank.
At this Bank you are allowed Interest on your
■ minimum quarterly balance.
HEAD OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London
Tie centre of Queens tonc/s
'at/ 's //ngu /street Soc/crt Life.
Wolel
RDTCI3
BRISBANE
Magnificent Ball-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
ě
SMOKE-OH!
Gas is the burning question of the hour
in Sydney.
* *
More cricket and less picket is what we
want from, the timber-strikers.
ONE UP ON MOTHER.
“Daddy, isn’t a bigamist a man who has a wife too many?”
“Not necessarily, dear. F’r instance, your daddy’s not a bigamist.”
Our future lies in the soil.” —Sir William Irvine.
. “Dust to dust” is the way the burial ser-
vice puts it.
* #
“The man’s disappearance was reported
by John Love, a rabbiter, who occupied a
tent near by.” This was a case of Love’s
neighbor lost.
The doctor is paid for his kill.
“Mr. R. D. Meagher appeared for the
petitioning husband.” Another case in
which a young man married is a young man
Meaghered.
* *
“Young Smith, who fought a six-round
contest with Arthur Ruck, was popular with
the crowd.” In' fact, all wished him the
best of Ruck.
“‘I must go now,’ said Daphne, rising. ‘I am
goin to write to Aldo.” Then whßk. . ?Sa7s(7q‘‘-“”””
she added out of politeness.”
—Sunday News.
It is a comfort to know that she didn’t
mean to be rude.
V #
SYDNEY CAPITALISM GOES
MILITANT.
“Certain Employers’ Assoc, members have broken
away, and there is intense indignation amongst those
who are adhering to the ‘gentlemen’s agreement’
entered into by the capitalists.” —Sydney paper.
ē
The president of the Sydney Housewives’
Assoc, says that every egg must he dated.
Most of us would be satisfied if there was
merely some mark to distinguish between
b.c. and a.d.
* *
COMMUNICATION FROM A
MONARCH*.
Editor,
Flurry Bulletin,
Dear Boss, —
Just a few plurry lines ter dror yer atten-
shun to der way us owners of dis ere white
Orstrylyer is bein’ treated and ter ask yer
ter send us up a few of der plurry Darling-
hurst razor-gang ter clean der place up.
What with orl dese plurry Dagoes, Maltese,
Sheiks and Chows, soon der white Orstrylyer
policy will be a plurry piece of paper—
yaller paper.
My Mary’s gone lookin’ fer der plurry
blackfeller what calls himself Hon. Sec.,
Condpbolin Football Club, ter ask him
what’s der plurry meanin’ of sayin’ ’is team
won’t play abos., an’, by cripes, if she
catchem—look out.
Mine tinket best plurry way is ter gib
der country back ter der abos. and ’poler-
gise fer der nice plurry state you’ve got it
into. We never had strikes, booze, snow
parties, an Orstrylyan accent, jazz, basher
gangs or plurry spruikers till yous blokes
come erlong. By the way, Mr. Editor, you
tell your artist cove that if he drors me
again in one of der boss’s shirts lie’s a
plurry liar, ’cause der boss tinks der plurry
Pommy pinched it.
King Jaoky.
THE TRUTH WILL COME OUT.
MAY: “Marriage, pooh!—I’d like to see the
man that could persuade me to marry
him!”
JUNE: “Yes, I’m sure you would, darling."
“Even while he still held the bottle in
his hand he resolved never to taste another
drop of liquor.” Under the same circum-
stances, many another would decide to take
a pull.
“Sir Robert H'orne, ex-M.P., is a very
rich man.” One of the Hornes of plenty.
PLANNING THE PLEASURE JAUNT.
“One problem continually facing the owner of a
motor-car in Sydney is, where to take the family on
the week-end run.” —Sydney Evening News.
Dad :
Shall we take the good old Western-road
Where Bill got killed last week;
Where the pubs provide a joyous load
For those who pleasure seek,
And the medicine ads., that artists goad
To blasphemy, gleam blue as woad
On field and hill and creek?
Mum ( lugubriously ) :
I’d rather go eastward, far rather,
To where poor Bill rests by the sea,
An’ sit there a-sorrowin’, father,
An’ thinking how happy I’d be
If Bill hadn’t made his new tourer a wreck
And half-killed his grannie and broken his
neck.
Young Alf:—
The Manly road is bosker, Mum.
They say you can still see the blood
Where that lorry hit the tramguard
And left him for dead in the mud.
Olga :
Why not visit the hill on the way to St.-Ives,
Where the boy on the bike and his girl lost
their lives?
Dad :
All this talk about death makes me feel
quite unsteady;
Besides, it’s upsetting your mum.
We’ll go south. Olga, you get your first-aid
things ready.
Then all say your prayers and come.
SINGE.
EPITAPH.
“In America an artist was found hanging in his
studio.”
Across the world the news is flung:
The artist had no pelf;
He could not get his pictures hung
And so he hung himself.
H. H.
THE STUDENT FROM MOSCOW.
“M. Trotsky, interviewed in Constantinople, said
that he only wanted to visit England to see Harley-
street specialists.” —London cable,
“You have no intention of interfering in
our politics, then?” said the interviewer.
The organiser of the Ekaterinburg mas-
sacres smiled.
"Wligt can your politicians teach me of
dismembering the human body?” he asked
scornfully. “Nothing. What experience
have they had of deaths—violent or other-
wise? Very little. What opportunities have
they, had to acquire the correct manner for
use in the presence of a prospective corpse?
Practically none.
“But it is not merely the physical work
of your great surgeons that I wish to study.
I am even more interested in what I may
term their financial technique. I want to sit,
a humble neophyte, at the feet of one of
the Masters who asks 300 guineas for an
operation—and gets away with it. I yearn
to inspect a Mayfair nursing home, where
the patient cheerfully pays 50 guineas a
week, and is given food worth 10s. a week.
And X hope, later, to study the development
of this great system which has grown up
in Australia with the object of instilling its
bold, uncompromising spirit into our Russian
Taxation Department.”
10-2-4.
BANK PICKETS AT WORK.
REGRETTABLE SCENE AT CLUB.
r There were some tense moments in the
Y., A. and B. Bank this morning when 12
carefully chosen employers marched from
their rooms in Bligh-street, singing the
National Anthem and carrying their banners,
and started to mass picket the cashier’s
counter. Tlie men wore
their top-hats as
usual, and bore gold-
mounted umbrellas,
but were otherwise un-
armed. They examined
all cheques as present-
ed, only dishonoring
those drawn by mem-
bers of free firms. Cus-
tomers adjusted them-
selves to the novel con-
ditions good-humoredly
after a while, as did
the manager and his
capable staff. The
police, who were
strongly in evidence,
were consequently not
called upon to ’ take
action.
Only one untoward
incident occurred to
mar the day’s har-
mony. A free employer
-rashly attempted to
cash a cheque at his
club. The hall-porter
was hustled while
handing over the
money, and the reci-
pient was chased down the "steps of the club
and into his waiting- two-seater. Several
vicious kicks were aimed at him, but the
militants being portly men for the most
part, and well stricken in years, failed to
do any serious damage.
SABOTAGE.
A Millionaire Victim.
The first clear case of sabotage since the
beginning of the cleavage in the employers’
ranks occurred on Wednesday. Sir Henry
Bibb’s chauffeur, while driving his master
into town at 10.45 a.m., noticed some sus-
picious-looking characters clad in plus-fours
and carrying golf clubs loitering near St.
James’s Church. The Rolls was promptly
stopped, whereupon the supposititious golfers
(identified later as members of a notorious
Bellevue Hill “basher gang”) made off in
their limousines. It transpired that the road-
way had been strewn with tacks, and the
fact that all four tyres of Sir Henry’s car
were flat ere his place of business was
reached indicated that the foul plot of the
association leaders had succeeded all too well.
In a subsequent interview Sir Henry pro-
fessed unconcern. “My troubles!” he
observed lightly. “All my cars are fully
insured.”
INTIMIDATION BY MILITANTS.
Poignant Scene at Fashionable Race
Meeting.
The cruel lengths to which the militants
are prepared to go in their efforts to coerce
the breakaway section back to the associa-
tion fold were distressingly emphasised on
the Members’ Lawn shortly before the big
race yesterday afternoon. Mr. and Mrs.
Fitzroy-Bunkke (erstwhile society leaders)'
and their charming daughters the Misses
Joan and Phillis (formerly prominent in one
EASILY.
“I wouldn’t be seen in a costume like that
one!”
“Oh yes, you would.”
of the city’s innumerable younger sets) left
their seats in the stand and walked towards
the railings, at the same time bowing amiably
to right and left. One and all were cut dead.
Mr. Gus (“Pop-eye”) Briggs, the popular
young pastoralist whose engagement to Miss
Joan was announced recently, attempted to
raise his hat, but received an agonising
blow in the midriff from a heavy pair of
race-glasses swung by his uncle, owner of
the favorite and a notorious agitator of the
extremists’ committee of action.
Mrs. Fitzroy-Bunkke was led from the
scene in tears. “The callous brutes are now
making war on defenceless women and girls !”
she sobbed.
Later. —lt is officially announced that Mrs.
Fitzroy-Bunkke’s projected monster bridge
party in aid of the Idiots’ Home, Woolloo-
mooloo, has been cancelled.
ALLEGATIONS BY EMPLOYERS’
ORGAN.
Has Vice-regality Been Dragged into
the Fray?
Perusal of the capitalists’ disputes paper,
Picket and Win, suggests that the fight is
being waged within the - very portals of Gov-
ernment House. An inflammatory leading
article in yesterday’s issue reads:—
“Stand fast, men! The A.D.C.’s are with
you! Influential lady members of your
General Disputes iCommittee are taking steps
to insure that no invitations for his Ex.’s
coming garden party shall reach disloyalists
or members of their families. This is a
signal victory for our methods, and will
strike terror into the hearts of our enemies,
who are already cracking. You and yours
have put up a battle that will resound glori-
ously a-down the glittering halls of high
finance —a battle that your descendants will
compare with pride to our forefathers’ heroic
struggle to save the Combination Laws, aye,
to the epic fight against the infamous Reform
Bill itself.
“ Meanwhile , lads, trust your leaders, and,
above all, continue to pay up.”
Captain de Vere Ponsonby, A.D.C., on
being shown the above last night in
the hall of the Colossus Club, made the
following important official pronouncement
for the information of this journal’s enor-
mous body of readers :
“Strikes me the cove’s dam’ well balmy!
See you later if I don’t have the luck to see
you first. I’m off to make up a bridge four
now.”
The Prime Minister, questioned on the 9th
tee of his golf club, said : “The publication
ė
J. B. D.
THE IMMORTAL.
Twinkle, twinkle little star,
What a staggerer you are!
On the stage you’re just as gay
As you were in grandpa’s day!
D. McM.
THE TEST.
The motor sheik observes a hint
And clives his horn a hoot•
The slower maidens spurn the hint,
The fast come at the toot.
P.P.


S' v. ‘ •
m
*<44*vV.,
m
SK
\
?0>
NnW
ij Ui
P?
s*ttx
-. r££&'Afci
x'.-a' iflcw*-
/x
■t
ALL WISE MEN
OME TO THIS CONCLUSION
Born 1820-
Still going Strong
MO
M
5?3i
AO**™*
& A CO***
OMf
§oi
m
Ba
mm
mm
i
wS'Y
,^ty:X
$
***&** * J
«: <•)
ASjjg^i
■<#&&?
if 5 ?
Across the top of the new Johnnie
Walker stopper there’s a piece of
red tape. At its conclusion, a seal.
This is the end of every man’s search
for the supreme Scotch whisky....this
is the conclusion to which every wise
man eventually comes, for there is
r»o better whisky comes out of
Scotland than Johnnie Walker.
Lift the tag —remove the capsule —and a
twist of the finger and thumb will give
access to the spirit which has made and
kept more friends than any other whisky
in the 'world.
JOHNNIE WAWK.ER
WHISKY
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, LONDON and KILMARNOCK.


is
f
■
$3
m
m
.
\ . *!
&
* • Jh \
Jv
4!
¥
1H
&
\ ,
%
%¥ x
m
me i
m&.cu
V,
Si
vij
*\ ' '
■
flXii
,\ \\Vfc
e
i
e '
E**
* - ir
’ rr
.
V.
r —_
«:
im\'r
I 3mmm .- '7
hi#
@* ® »
i *
■
I
«
■ i
v \ ;
•-■
fvWr* •
OJ 10
IRON noo
t*Z amt xsmnr p Aif( x r» %
ill
—your factory, home, sheds
outbuildings or any structure
of steel, iron or wood.
pERRODOR” Elastic Paint will protect them as it has protected the
I Naval Bases of the British Admiralty, Australian Government buildings
and the factories of representative firms for over a quarter of a century.
Rain, hail, salt air, extremes of heat and cold, and the oxygen and other gases
of the atmosphere will not affect your buildings adversely, because “Ferrodor”
Paint is composed of indestructible peroxide of iron, which successfully resists
all corrosive action.
The elastic properties of Ferrodor give greater covering power and insure
that it will not crack or chip under any conditions.
Let Ferrodor shield your buildings, improve their appearance and save you
money. Make next year a prosperous one—at least, a saving one, by painting
with “Ferrodor” now.
Sole Agents jor Australia:
WILLIAM ADAMS <f COMPANY
■ LIMITED —_</
175 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at
MELBOURNE: 521-23 Collins Street
PERTH: 432-36 Murray Street.
BRISBANE: 93 Albert Street.
ADELAIDE: 157 Waymouth Street.
NEWCASTLE: 17 Bolton Street.
Entirely British
Nan-Poisonous
e


W.
J|
DYNAMIC LOUD SPEAKERS
AFTER an evening’s listening to a
MAGNA VOX Dynamic Speaker
one’s standard of radio entertainment
is so raised that the shortcomings of
other type speakers are very notice-
able.
Highly trained musicians, sensitive to
delicate tone shadings, and who wince
at even slight distortions, find these
speakers or reproducers a. real joy.
UNITS ONLY FROM . . £7/15/-
CABINET MODELS FROM . . £lO
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL RADIO DEALERS
WHOLESALE & RETAIL DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL STATES.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
An Ideal Winter Home —The Most Sheltered Spot on the Harbor, with Private Beach and
Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort—Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds
and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4i| guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines).
Is baby thriving ?
V
Food
*-279
Kesr. Trade Mark.
Incases of difficult feed-
ing Benger’s gives valuable
help. A change to Benger’s
Food at three months has
proved the turning point to
many weakly infants. .
Benger's Food always is prepared
for use with fresh cows’ milk.
Send for Benger’s Booklet, post free.
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.,
350, George Street, SYDNEY.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
If' m
m
| BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
RUSK RUBBER.
• THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth, It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST COMMERCIAL FORESTRY CO.
SUBSCRIBED SHARE CAPITAL £235, 586
SUBSCRIBED BOND CAPITAL £2,750,000
BANKERS—THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND AND THEIR AGENTS.
SOLE BROKERS—SMITH, WYLIE AND CO., LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN BRANCHES AT MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE,
PERTH, HOBART AND NEWCASTLE.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCHES—AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH AND DUNEDIN ;
AND AT 36-38 NEW BROAD STREET, LONDON, E.C.2; JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA;
BOMBAY, INDIA; SINGAPORE; KUALA LUMPUR, FEDERATED MALAY STATES.
Pen and Picture
Shadow Shows
In “Coorab in the Island of Ghosts,” that
indefatigable traveller Francis Birtles has
endeavored to produce an Australian
“Chang.” The story of Coorab’s breaking
of the tribal law and his exile to the island
of spooks because he aspired to a mate
already pigeonholed for an elder of the tribe
lacks the simple strength and continuity of
“Chang,” but the photography is wonderfully
good, and the pageant of stone-age life on
the plains, mountains, rivers and seas of
the Far North is every bit as impressive as
that of the jungle life of the Siamese film.
Also Rudolph Valentino Binghi turns out to
be just as eminent an actor for the screen
as his brown brother of “Chang.” He does
not seem to be in the least camera-shy, and
goes on with his corroborees and his ingur-
gitating of live mangrove worms 12 inches
long as if the operator were in another
planet. The film suggests that the North is
an epicure’s heaven. Binghi lives on the fat
of a land teeming with emu, kangaroo, turtle,
buffalo and several edible varieties of iguana.
Obviously a producer assisted by a strong
dramatic sense and a Birtles could make a
picture out of such material that would have
a world-wide sale.
A fast-moving story of the hunting-field
and the turf, ip which many horses, one
motor-car and one train come fearful crop-
pers, is “The Whip” (First National). For
once in a way a really competent and pains-
taking producer has been at work, and he
has given a
Nat Gouldish
plot an Eng-
lish setting
that looks
more English
than Eng-
land ; hunting
scenes that,
however far
they stray
from the
rather dreary
reality, look as
they should
look, and some
racing pic-
tures that
would excite
the lady presi-
dent of the
Anti- Gamb-
ling League.
Dorothy Mac-
kaill, Anna Q.
Nillson and
Marc McDer-
DOROTHY MACKAILL.
mott chiefly carry the yarn along. The
clever craftsman who welded the backcloths
to the animated foregrounds deserves the
Faked Photography Medal for 1929.
The heroine of “Tide of Empire”
(M.-G.-M.) is daughter of a rich old senor
of early California, and they and the girl’s
wastrel brother head society in the vicinity
of their ranch until, with the gold rush, they
are impoverished by raiding miners. The
newcomers include a young man who lends
his horse to a rejected lover of the girl to
race against the old rancher’s horse for
stakes which include the ranch. The horse
wins, and, revenged, the ex-lover gives the
ranch to the newcomer. He in turn is re-
jected by the girl; returns the ranch and
goes off to his gold-hunting. The shock,
however, has killed the old boy, and the
wastrel son has cleared out and joined a
large bushranging gang. The girl goes to
the mining township ostensibly to return the
ranch to the chap who won it, and about
this time the gang raids. The outcast is
shot, captured and about to be hanged when
the young miner helps him to escape, and
turns to take in his arms the girl who has
learnt to love him. It is all very obvious,
and the acting of George Duryea doesn’t
help it to any subtlety. Renee Adoree is a
little better, but she is far from the Spanish
type.
“Close Harmony” (Paramount-Cinesound)
begins with Charles Buddy Rogers and his
jazz-band companions being evicted from
their apartment because they cannot pay
their rent. Nancy Carroll, the fair queen
of a neighboring cinema hall, happens along,
and, recognising in Charles a future great
conductor, decides that the dispersal of the
virtuosi of the saxophone and the drum
would be an irreparable loss to Art; so she
pays the bill. Then she gets the talented
Charles a contract at her theatre. His
genius receives immediate recognition, and
he asks for a 1000-dollars-a-week contract, a
none too modest request considering the
quality of the melody he purveys. However,
he gets the boot in favor of a brace of low
comedians about whose patter this paper
has the same opinion as it has about the
price of beer. With the cunning of the
female serpent, Nancy contrives to break up
the combination, but in doing so incurs the
suspicions of her lover. Charles; whereupon
she tells him to go to Hades.. Inspired, like
so many great geniuses before him, by hate,
love, jealousy and pride, Charles rushes on
to the stage and conducts as no Sousa of the
ukulele has ever conducted before. Natu-
rally, when he comes off it is to fall into
Nancy’s palpitating arms. The picture,
which is good entertainment on the whole,
is talkie throughout, and the voices are badly
differentiated, Nancy Carroll’s being persis-
tently the loudest of the lot. An actor well
known on the Australian stage, Harry
Greene, is present aS a Hebrew entrepreneur
with all his engaging characteristics unim-
paired. His remarks were frequently unin-
telligible to The Bulletin, but as the audi-
ence laughed every time, it is presumed that
the consistent talkie-goer is acquiring a sixth
sense or an inner ear or something of the
sort.
The Palette
Ernest Buckmaster (Melb. Athenaeum) is
one of the few products of the Vic. National
Gallery* school who have really done some-
thing to restore the waning prestige
academy since the secession of Meldrum and
his disciples. Every landscape of young
Buckmaster is a “La Tosca” of exciting
drama—sometimes of melodrama. There is
a touch of coarseness here and there. The
approach to the subject is usually almost
brutally direct. But there is so much skill
in the selection of the effective point of
view and so much cleverness in the manipu-
lation of the brush that even grave faults of
observation like the black line to the cloud
in the fat, opulent “Landscape, Kyneton,”
are easily overlooked. No. 6 shows the
quarry whence men have hewn the stone
to make the city which is glimpsed in the
distance. Here is a picture that, without
going beyond the limits of straightforward
representation, tells an interesting story.
“The Lady in Blue” is handled almost con-
temptuously to produce that rare quality in
painting—humor.
If so much of Margaret Baskerville’s
sculpture (Arts and Crafts, Melbourne)
were not so overlaid with sentimentality,
the sterling quality of the rest would be
more easily perceived. Her rugged head
of Thomas Bent is a vital portrait of a
determined-looking politician, whose growing
of a beard suggests a device for concealing
the irresolution about the mouth. Another
clever thing is the study of a third-
generation Australian flapper, whose Grecian
profile would not be Out of place in a
Minerva. Miss Baskerville (who is Mrs.
C. Douglas Richardson in private) has pep-
pered Victoria with examples of her art
during the last generation or so, but none
of her public performances are as good as
the comic little head of a genuine kid, which
is also the best item in this show.
Norman Lloyd, returned from Paris, has
giving Melbourne a small dose of
futurism or primitivism at the Pine Arts.
Mr. Lloyd appears to be feeling, artis-
tically speaking, in several pockets at once.
Some of his Australian landscapes look like
inferior Streetons, while his European pic-
tures are fairly evenly divided between a
posterish realism and flat decoration. In
No. 11, “Morning, Venice,” he has got him-
self into a muddle by mixing realism and
decoration inside the one frame, though the
method has been successful in “The Seine
near Paris,” with its bridge and its bright
boats looking like a flock of toothpicks mak-
ing an offensive on an open mouth. He has
a strong plastic sense, and this makes him
at home amidst Italian architecture, with
its broad effects of light and shade.
The Macquarie Galleries have given Syd-
ney a few weeks’ opportunity of viewing 55
prints fairly representative of the etchings
of Rembrandt, and, apart from buyers and
a string of art students, Sydney has stayed
away almost to a man. That is the Harbor
City’s loss, for it has been a rare pictorial
entertainment. The exhibits are very far
from even, but the most minor of them hold
interest.
The Inky Way
“D.”: Lloyd Dumas, who is returning to
Australia as managing editor of Adelaide
Advertiser, has gone up the press ladder
almost as quickly as Keith Murdoch, who
chose him for the job. Dumas started on
the Advertiser, after leaving Adelaide
Teachers’ Training College, at 17; went on
to Melbourne Argus, where he was chief-of-
staff at 31; made a big success of the
Herald’s Sun-Pictorial acquisition, and
in 1927 went to London, where he has been
doing brilliant work, with Guy Innes, for
Aust. Newspapers Cable Service. Dumas is
a broad, imperturbable, smiling customer,
who looks a lot younger than his 39 years!
He is a born organiser, knows how to handle
men, and has ink in his blood. He is a
son of that Dumas who for so long owned
and edited the Mt. Barker (S.A.) Courier.
Mick Keane, editor of the Christchurch
(M.L.) Press, has gone where proofs and
leaders are not. He was a charming writer,
and his “Obiter Dicta” in Saturday issues
had more than a local reputation. He was
only 49 when the call came.
“W.P.D.”: George Woolnough, dead in
Brisbane, aged 94, was a preacher before he
became a pressman. He took his B.A. and
M.A. degrees at Sydney Uni., worked for the
Methodies, and in 1880 became leader-writer
on the S. M. Herald. Five years later he
went to the Brisbane Telegraph as editor,
and remained in that position for 31 years.
Woolnough was a sound scholar, and had a
bent for metaphysics, as his book, “Kosmos,”
attests. He was a foundation member of
the Queensland Press Institute, the first
president of which was Dr. Ward (himself
a Methodist minister and then a journalist),
who succeeded Woolnough as Telegraph
editor.
“Lao-dah”: G. C. Dixon, sometime of Mel-
bourne Herald and now literary editor of
London Daily News, has sold the talkie
rights of a play based on a novel by Jack
McLaren. A more extraordinary feat of
Dixon’s was to dramatise Aldous Huxley’s
latest novel, “Point Counterpoint.” Having
waded through its 600-odd pages, I am won-
dering which sub-sub-section of it Dixon has
utilised.


a spare part
"shortage"
British |
Thoroughness I
in Leyland I
Service
No. 1
Jevjand,
ttYUUIB. tAHCS
Between £50,000 and
£ 6 0,0 00 is represented in Ley-
land Headquarters spare parts stock.
From spring-clips to complete chassis,
not a single Leyland Lorry requirement
is overlooked. And, no matter how far
away you are, just order by part num-
ber and receive the goods by express
delivery.
Such service guarantees you against loss
by hold-ups; an important economic
feature to remember when you consider
the purchase of transport units.
Demonstrations gladly arranged. Write
for descriptive Leyland booklets, gladly
sent on request .
evlandMoiors
rrtfd—
ENGLAND.
Head Office for Australia:
24 Grosvenor Street,
Sydney.
’Phones: 87951 (3 lines),
L 2869.
Telegrams: "Leymotors,
Sydney.
Service Station: Australia Street, Camperdown.
Melbourne Depot: Corner Villiers & Courtney Streets, North Melbourne*
Brisbane Depot: Grey Street, South Brisbane.
è
Business, Robbery, etc.
Lao-dali”: By no means the smallest item
in the expenditure on the new Spencer-street
bridge in Melbourne was for the removal of
® re d-gum stump estimated by experts to be
100,000 years old. It delayed the job three
weeks and cost £157 to shift out of the
65ft. of mud in which the centuries had
interred it.
* * * *
“Groper”: “Clerk” (B. 12/6/’29) is re-
sponsible for the statement that after Mel-
bourne’s Flinders-street (2238 ft.) Albury
has the longest railway platform in Australia
(1370 ft.). He is wrong. Kalgoorlie comes
second with 1685 ft., exclusive of ramps.
* * * *
“Pabellco”: Maoriland’s Postal Depart-
ment sells advertising space on stamp-
edging. A small string of penny stamps
which came in a letter from M.L. invited
me repeatedly to “Always say Brown’s when
you buy a tie.” As stamps are,issued by
the million the innovation must be profitable.
Incidentally, Maoriland makes the Post
Office pay. Revenue in 1927-28 amounted to
£3,323,000; working expenses to £2,297,000.
Australia’s remarkable concern, I gather
from The Bulletin (19/6/’29), considers
an annual loss of £230,000 “satisfactory.”
* * * *
“Elsie Ghee”: You can live pretty cheaply
in Sydney if you have a taste for pastry
and cookshop fare. White and bran scones
may be bought for a ha’penny each, crumpets
for three-farthings each, jam- and custard-
tarts for a penny, apple-tarts for two-
pence and plum-puddings for threepence. A
pickled onion or gherkin costs a penny, a
corm of cooked beet twopence, a cooked
rabbit (hot) Is. 3d., and cooked corned
breast of mutton from lOd. up. No doubt,
the housewife can produce the same article
for less, but hardly when th'e cost in gas,
time, temper, soiled hands and depreciated
ego is considered.
* * # *
“Centurion” : The new Queensland Govern-
ment has made an important departure from
precedent in classing ringbarking of useless
timber as an improvement to pastoral pro-
perty, and therefore to be allowed for on
taxation-sheets. Greatly as it increases
carrying capacity, ringbarking is an expensive
job. So country that might have carried many
more sheep has not been stocked up to a
tithe of its value. The new scheme will not
only tend to increase the head of stock per
square mile but give a lot of employment.
* * * *
“Tin Opener”: Now that Australia has
abandoned the whaling industry to the Nor-
wegians,, it may be as well to strike back
and begin the tinning of sardines. Untold
quantities of the genuine article annually
skirt the coast from Port Stephens to Thurs-
day Island. The Norwegians send Australia
a tremendous lot of little fish which are de-
scribed as sardines, whereas they are only
sprats—quite a different proposition for
flavor and delicacy. Similarly, South Africa
ships tinned crayfish to this country. It is
not nearly so palatable as our own fresh-
caught crayfish, but it is cheaper, and the
fact that it is handled by black labor is
conveniently overlooked by white Australians.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: Australian Customs officials
have their problems, but it is doubtful if
they have ever been confronted with one as
fantastic as is agitating the authorities at
Nancy, in France. The Nancy electric-light
co. some years ago decided to supplement
the local supply by running a cable across
the frontier into Switzerland and tapping the
much cheaper hydro power supplied by the
Swiss rivers. This worked satisfactorily
until some ingenious person decided that,
inasmuch as the concern was importing
something without making the usual statu-
tory declaration, it was guilty of smuggling.
The fine involved amounts to £600,000, and
the case is proceeding through the various
courts while the lawyers argue as to
whether a substance which can neither be
seen, weighed nor smelt should be classed as
dutiable goods.
* * * *
“Wealsman” : Though the Speck’s friendly
societies manage to keep the benefit mem-
bership well up to the 25,000 mark (a little
over 11 p.c. of the population), their financial
position can hardly be regarded as shock-
proof. Accumulated funds amount to
£377,000; about £350,000 is invested. Mem-
bers’ contributions, with interest, etc.
(16s. 5d.), give receipts of £4 6s. i)er head,
against expenditure of £4 2s. 6d. Expenses
of administration are increasing. They now
stand at 15s. 6d., a jump of about Is. 3d.
per member on the previous five-years’ aver-
age. There is also an increasing bill for
sick pay—24s. as against the preceding five-
years’ average of 225. sd. And the average
age of members has increased from 37 to 40
in the last five or six years. This last is due
to the emigration of young people from Tas.
* * * *
“Coaldust”: The Yallourn (Vic.) brown-
coal field covers 30 square miles, and there
are 6000 million tons of coal within six
miles of the Electricity Commission’s power
house. The mineral can be delivered
to the boiler bunkers and the briquette plant
for 2s. 6d. per ton —in time, it is estimated
to cost only Is. 9d. A ton of lignite has about
one-third of the heat value of a ton of black
coal. So at a cost of 7s. 6d. the Electricity
Commission gets from brown coal the same
heat as from black coal at a cost of 355.
When the scheme is in full operation it will
enable Victoria to talk industrially to the
whole world.
* * * *
From Peter Ferrier, Brisbane: —
“P.K.8.” (B. 19/6/’29) is wrong in one or two
respects about the Australian-invented twine-binder.
I happen to know, because the late James Ferrier—
a fanner and grazier, by the way—was my uncle.
His machine underwent successful trials, but while
arrangements were being made to patent it the
invention was stolen. My uncle also invented the
device for compressing fodder used during the
Great War by Britain and Australia, and the
presses for baling it. He died in London about
1904. My father, the late David Ferrier,
invented the Ferrier woolpress and the wheeled
scoop employed in France by the Canadian
army to excavate sunken roads. The brothers were
born in Perthshire, Scotland, and came to Australia
as very young boys with their parents, who took
up land near Hamilton (Vic.).


|V S
H
V
SSt
fOOKTOWH
\ 11
|V
WYN
DALY WATERS
i
TENNANTSCK
H.TE
/x
'•
NBA
3BAW
N
PERTH
X
ADELAIDE
f JI
It must be good
ELBOURN
to be so popular
o
s - •
iOBAftT
1,314 miles of REX-PYE
You could walk on REX-PYE tins
from Brisbane to Tennant’s Creek,
from Sydney to Cooktown, from
Melbourne to Ingham, from Adelaide
to Daly Waters, from Perth nearly
to Wyndham, or from Hobart to
Bundaberg; for in the comparatively
short time since we first invented the
recipe for REX-PYE and placed this
choice delicacy before the people of
Australia, 15,974,345 lib tins and
3,031,614 /41b tins have been eaten.
Place these REX-PYE tins touching,
side by side, and they stretch 1,314
miles.
REX-PYE certainly is good to be so
popular. It is the finest meat in the
the world.
Put Quality before Cheapness .
Always say REX-PYE.
e
REX-PYE
In lib. and hygienic cans
ITT JCDNJELS PTV. LTD.
(Division of United Provisions Ltd.)
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon


|i| IlllljH
wi
I
ESP""
<3
l
/
z^a
HARDYS
WINES
2r
.w.\
tf.'.VMV
T INTAR A
~.v.v<v
»
v;.'.ViV/
P
‘vKvv
sxxs®
-.’.v.r
wsft
®s
JuV.ViV/A
, ,
•XL\w?.v
*sss
SSSKS
■
ait'.
'srasas
30?
vv/XvXvav
v..v«
S^SsHjSsKwAytv:-/:
Svxil^v/w^v?p; : :’: : x
isiiii
wm
&&VAv£
K^vX-x^sv:
XX'XX-XXXvX-Mft!
a
ir/.v.'.v.vai
€
: : : :( : x?^; : : : x^tSv: ;
iTiVSttBS®
VW
?.V^\%l4v»>«!apsgjji
v.v,w.w l ?.v , .>sv , i'.a^«s
r.M
H M*W&>
.‘AV/iAV
SK-3K
S^n&V
Vt-V/.v
.•.•.•XyXytv.\v.\y»£s.
tS?
XXX'XvXXvXvXyXv?
XXyX’XvXX-XvX.vXy;
W\ T
Ityyv.y.y.y,;
•Xv&XyyXXX
s
V.VA
©
XvsK?XiXir
»
■
WAv/jSi
_O-C/
ite
Cv>
vOi
3g
Lr
*?>
SS^'
ii w<mi\
rfr amtHZ
T TARDY’S TINTARA WINES (Gold Label) are 70 years of age. of fine bouquet and maturity. Ex 'X act ' d J™ th *
M rich g * apes of , the choBen lands of SoUth Australia ’ there . is no !? etter a‘*e price'isYithin thTreach of all and not more
Hardy’s Champion Reserve Port you are sure of age, maturity, quality, and t p
than that of other wines.


The Mercantile and General
Insurance Co. Ltd.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL, £250,000
Sydney Branch: YORKSHIRE HOUSE, 14 SPRING STREET
W. H. JOHNSON, Manager for New South Wales.
Notice is given that the above-mentioned company has purchased 96% of the
shares of the AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
The Australian National Assurance Company has its headquarters in Mel-
bourne, with Branches in Adelaide and Sydney. The Sydney Branch is now
located at the above address.
For They are Jolly Good Fellows.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S
SYDNEY BITTER BEER.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
A nd so say all of us.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PER?'*! AND GERALDTON. fi
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Melbourne racing last week had a disturb-
ing effect on the market for the Grand
National Hurdle, which is to be contested
on Saturday. Kentle, newly-purchased by
L. K. S. Mackinnon, the V.R.C. chairman,
was beaten out of a place over the battens
at Sandown Park on the Wednesday; he
finished disappointingly and immediately
eased in the G.N. market. He was allowed
to go out at 10 to 1 for the Jumpers’ Flat
at Moonee Valley on Saturday, and won
brilliantly, to the displeasure of spectators
who apparently had lost their money at
Sandown. The truth is that the owner put
£l5O on the ex-Queenslander at Sandown,
and the fact of 10 to 1 being available at
the Valley was proof that no coup was
attempted. Kentle, of course, has been re-
installed in National favor. He has un-
doubted pace and stamina, but may fail in
the jumping department.
• • • • • *
Valbee was backed from 9 to 2 to 3 to 1
for the race which Kentle captured. As
usual, the son of Valais dropped to the
tail of the field. He finished fifth, but made
up ground too tardily to have any chance of
success. However, Kentle lowered the
course record for a mile and seven furlongs,
and it would be dangerous to condemn Val-
ee for not rising to the occasion. Wallace
Armstrong, who landed the Sandown Hurdle,
ran a creditable fourth in _ Kentle’s race.
He is roguish, but, being in perfect con-
dition, may be troublesome in the National.
Adit (20 to 1) annexed the Windarra
Hurdle in gritty style, and has risen con-
siderably in favor. He has had a peculiar
preparation, embracing an outing over
fences at Williamstown, which resulted in a
fall; and he had another tumble at Caulfield
when hurdling, being brought down by Bal-
dini, who was killed. South Australian
horses have played a prominent part in the
Grand National Hurdle; Sarasati, York,
Arquebuse and Fiscom won it. The Central
State is represented this year by Adit,
Hesley and Heckler, and the first-named pair
ought to be in the picture. Adit equalled
the Australasian record for two miles, and
Hesley was third to him.
T. M. Burke started three jumpers at
Moonee Valley. The Indian broke a blood
vessel, Selbourne fell in the steeplechase, and
Conjurer shaped ingloriously in the Jumpers’
Flat. There is a report that Conjurer was
a rod in pickle for the National; it is signi-
ficant that T. ,T. Hayes did not produce the
brother to Poitrel for recent races.
Mosstrooper, owned by former Indian
horse-trader Gus Powell, is seemingly invin-
cible over Moonee Valley fences. He regis-
tered his third success there last Saturday.
Cramped odds (2 to 1) were willingly
accepted by admirers of the chestnut, and he
led the field a merry dance. As on a prev-
ious occasion, Micronesia struck heavily
when showing promise of overhauling Moss-
trooper, who now is very seriously regarded
as a G. N. Steeple candidate. Powell is
satisfied that he will see out the three miles
and a furlong, but Flemington _ fences may
be too formidable for a dashing jumper.
Grosvenor looks to be a hopeless cross-coun-
try proposition. Maoriland jockey Camp-
bell used the whip freely on him at Moonee
Valley, but P. H. Osborne’s noddy sulked
throughout.
Brockwood (The Welkin-Wilga), gifted to
James Scobie in the will of the late Rupert
Clarke, was backed from extreme odds to
8 to 1 in the Chandos Handicap, and came
from behind to defeat Stage Saint by an eye-
brow. He is raced on lease by George
Chandler. The victory of Love Story in the
Greenvale Welter was aided by a lucky run
on the rails nearing home. Love Story hit
the ring heavily, her price shortening from
6 to 1 to 3 to 1.
* * * *
For Elemington on Saturday:—
Maiden Hurdle : Not Infallible ; next, Horo-
scope. . *
Myrous Handicap: Limber TTp ; next, Last
Rain. _ . , .
Grand National Hurdle Race: Epical, 1;
Tiki, 2 ; Adit, 3.
Kensington Steeple: Chaumont; next,
Mosstrooper.
Iramoo Welter: Master Ijiinette; next,
New Hope.
Winter Handicap: Dark Dawn; next Ring
Boy.
MADE TO ORDER.
FAIR ENTHUSIAST : “Mr. McNab is simply wonderful. Funny that he hasn’t played
before this.”
ESCORT: “Oh he’s just learnt that players get in free.”
The Canterbury Park Club expanded its
programme to 11 races on Saturday and
had a very disagreeable day for it The
Cup race was run in divisions, and the
first division looked so open that the book-
makers called 6 to 1 the field —only 11.
Jeypore (8 to 1) made another gallant
effort to lead all the way, but Octember
(eights and sevens) had his measure a fur-
long from home, and Don Moon (6 to 1)
cut Jeypore out of second place over the last
bit. Octember was ridden by L. Davidson,
who is making a reputation for getting the
best out of sluggish horses. _ “Up” since
before Christmas, the big gelding thrives on
his work, and if he is taken to Brisbane
for the King’s Cup the Queensland horses
will find him an awkward customer to beat.
Valparaiso was a warm favorite for the
second division, but McCarten made too
much use of him, and Stormy (10 to 1)
just pipped him. It took them 2mm. o4 2 sec.
to plough through the 11 furlongs, btormy
had been beaten out of a place in Jeypore s
handicap at Moorcfield the previous Satur-
day, and the crowd was bitter about the
reversal of form, but the stewards took no
action. Stormy comes from Maoriland, and
Sydney punters have found him a most un-
certain beast.
Golden Grist, a winner a< Moorefield,
was too good for the lot he met in the
Flying Handicap; he and Greencorn, the
second horse, shared favoritism at threes.
Garrula (7 to 2) captured the Ashbury
Handicap after a close finish with Gay
Monk (8 to 1) ; and the Trial Stakes—
divided into three races —brought two smart
horses to light—Adrian’s March (9 to 4), a
colt of John “Baron’s.” and Certificate (5
to 2), a gelding in Cook’s stable. 1 liey
settled their fields in most impressive style.
* * * *
For Rosehill on Saturday:—
Flying Handicap: Killarney: next, Per-
ception.
Rosehill Handicap: Octember; next,
Blather. _
Carlingford Mile: Sharp Son; next, Ener-
giqUe-*
This Page’s early fancies for the big spring
handicaps are Poitiers (7st. 91b.) for the
Epsom, Inducement (Bst.) for the Metropoli-
tan, Octember (7st. 41b.) for the Caulfield
Cup and Some Quality (Bst. lib.) for the
Melbourne Cup.
jj. jjj sfs He
“Lao-dah”: Frank H. Hart, one of Mel-
bourne’s leading sporting writers, will shortly
publish the story of James Scobie’s 50 years
on the Australian turf. One of the most
famous trainers in Australia and a great
cross-country rider in his. day, Scobie still
lias phenomenal success with his prads, and
won the Melbourne Cup with Trivalve two
years ago. He was a friend of Tommy Cor-
rigan, great steeplechase jockey of 40 years
ago, and his career is apparently of sufficient
interest to Englishmen to prompt one of the
Northcliffe family to suggest to Hart the
printing of the memoir in a London sporting
sheet.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Archie Cowan, a N.S.W. South Coast boxer,
had little difficulty in disposing of American
Johnny Green at Sydney Stadium on Satur-
day night, gaining a points decision by a
wide margin at the end of 15 rounds. Using
a clever left hand, Cowan was much too
speedy for the visitor. Green, although a
hard trier and well accredited, was never in
the picture. Like most of his fellow-country-
men, he seems to be armor-plated, unless it
is our boys have lost the art o p punching.
There was a very meagre attendance. Green
scaled Bst. silb., Cowan Bst. 31b.
Ludicrous was the “wrestling” match be-
tween Clarence Eklund (12st. 101 b.), “world s
light-heavyweight champion,” and Lilly
Mieske (13st. 51b.) at Melbourne on Satur-
day night. All the old gallery stunts of last
season, such as gouging, biting and punch-
ing, were reproduced, but one of the smallest
crowds ever seen at the Dudley-strect arena
only jeered at the performers. Bill was m
poor condition, and Clarrie had to loaf a
lot. His one fall came in the sixth round,
and at the close of the infliction the spec-
tators got some relief by counting them out.
Footbrawl
In spite of the beastly weather, just under
28,000 people witnessed the All Blacks
match against N.S.W. at Sydney Cricket
Ground on Saturday. They were rewarded
with a game so thrilling (though the ground
was a quagmire and the ball a pudding) that
hardly any of them departed before full-
time went with the result a scoreless draw.
The N.S.W. forwards were the equals ot
their famous opponents in all departments
save the finesse of dribbling. Both sides
missed scoring by the narrowest of margins
on several occasions, and matters may be
called even in that respect. The All Blacks
early adapted their game to the conditions,
the backs rarely attempting a combined
advance; they were content to kick and
follow through with their forwards, keeping
the ball down. When they lost the ball,
they stood right up on the opposing backs
and. rarely gave them time to get going.
They were helped by the weakness of
N.S.W. at five-eighth and inside-centre,
Bartley being off color with his passes and
all-round play. King suffered accordingly,
but was uncertain on his own account on
more than one occasion. At times the visit-
ing backs showed rare dash and cleverness,
the twin five-eighths, Oliver and Lilburne.
getting their men away very smartly, and
being finely helped by scrum-half Dailey,
who played a great half-back game. Lam-
port, however, was his equal at the N.S.W.
scrum, while Towers and Eric Ford, the
latter especially, lived up to reputation.
Alec Ross, at full-back, was never better;
Nepia was little behind him except in pace,
the Maori’s lack of this nearly costing his
side a try when Eric Ford beat him in a
sprint for the touchdown. Rika and the giant
Sontag were the best of a typical M.L.
vanguard, though it was hard to sort out
any individual. The same must be said of
the N.S.W. pack; Palfreyman, Brecken-
ridge and Finlay, however, deserve to be
mentioned. Wing-forward Porter could not
take the field and Oundy filled his place. S.
Carleton, the All Black centre had to retire,
and was replaced by Stringfellow.
The team to represent Australia on
Saturday—the first against M.L. since fate-
ful 1914 —consists of Ross, Eric Ford.
Towers, King, Gordon, Lawton and Mal-
colm or Lamport (backs) ; Breckenridge, J.
Ford, Palfreyman. Finlay, Hamalainen.
Cerutti. Bonis, Judd, Thompson (forwards)
—one back and one forward to be omitted.
Lawton. Hamalainen, Bonis and Thompson
are Queenslanders, a great tribute to the
State in which the Union game has just
been revived.
He * * *
Gorgeous weather and the prospect of a
close contest brought 35,000 to the Carlton
Oval on Saturday, but the St. Kilda lads,
who had put up a great fight against Colling-
wood the week before, could on this occasion
do nothing right. They could neither mark
nor kick nor combine. The Blues’ kicking
was also pretty rotten, but otherwise the
goods called for were delivered; 94 points
to St. K.’s 57. Melbourne’s position is pre-
carious, and it went out to Essen don in a
do-or-die spirit. It was a strenuous game,
and only a fiercely-rushed goal in the clos-
ing minutes saved the day for Melbourne;
82 points to ’Don’s 76. Hawthorn achieved
its second win, this time at Fitzroy’s expense',
by 93 to 58; Richmond pounded North re-
lentlessly, 129 to 76; and ’Wood showed little
regard for Footscray's feelings by compiling
139 to 94 —Gordon Coventry. 8 goals. The
closest finish of the day, and the poorest foot-
ball, happened at South Melbourne, where
the local team and Geelong bumped each
other with much abandon for two hours.
When the collision ceased Geelong hhd col-
lected 75 points and South 73.
* * * *
“Gate”: The Rugby League team from
Queensland and N.S.W. which is to tour the
North of England during the coming season
will leave Sydney for Vancouver on July 25.
The League authorities will appoint the
captain and vice-captain before the side
sails. Players will be under a bond not to
sign on with English clubs.
(Continued on page S/1.)
The polo tussle for the Australasian Gold
Cup at Kensington (N.S.W.) resulted in
Harden easily retaining the trophy in the
final against Inverell, 10 to 2. A fine all-
round showing was given by the Harden No.
2. Maple Brown; his hard and accurate hit-
ting equalled anything seen at Kensington.
NOT THE COLOR LINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Condobolin, one of the N.S.W. country League
clubs, is being criticised as unsportsmanlike and
undemocratic for drawing the color line against
aborigines in the football field.”
He shook his head and reckoned it a sin,
A slander, too. Good old Condobolin,
It seemed to him, should get a fairer spin.
“They’ve got it wrong,” he said, “those
asinine
Newspaper blokes. Eh? Yes, a beer for
mine.
We never drew no blinking color line.
“Our township’s ’bailers wouldn't care a hoot
Whether a chap were white or black as soot
If that were all.” He lighted a cheroot
And sniffed its fragrance for a moment brief
As if from memories it brought relief
(He’d scent, I noticed, on his handkerchief).
“We wouldn’t care if coves were black as ink,
Or white as snow, or green, or blue, or pink
So long as” —here he took a lengthy drink.
“These cricketers,” he growled, “may think
it strange,
Our barring nigs. I’ll lay their views would
change
If” —and I caught some words like “closer
range.”
“These tennis fans our attitude condemn,
Bad sports they reckon us, and haw and hem.
All mighty fine, take it from me, for them.
“To play their games they bid the abo. come
And give him welcome.” Here his voice grew
grum.
“You see,” he said, “they never have a
scrum.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


ft"
n
I
!W)
ill
r
/
vO
H<r.
I
1
I
%
BADGE
SERVICE
You see it everywhere
Republic has more trucks in service than any other individual truck
manufacturer. A simple statement with a wealth of meaning. No
human being buys the same thing twice unless the first was 100 p.c.
right. Among Republic’s characteristics are large numbers of Republic
fleet operators. These men have found Republic gave them proper
service at the right cost. It is not difficult to buy service, but to buy
it at the right cost is another thing. That’s why it will pay you to
investigate Republic. Republic will give you correctly-balanced power,
not too much and not too little for the job you want done.
Thousands of other owners have known that to be true for years.
That is why you see the Republic Badge everywhere; that is why it
is truly the Badge of Service.
è
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency,
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Raseh Motors, Ltd.,
69 Weymouth Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Republic Truck Sales Co., L
905 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets,
Wellington.
Factory Representatives: W. A. GROWL E, LT D., Crowle House, York Street, Sydney.


We bid you Welcome —
Uc\^ ve
Tett& s
whether your stay in Syd-
ney be a few hours, a few
days or a few months—
you will enjoy the
friendly hospitality, the
excellent cuisine, the
comfort and service of
Usher’s modern hotel.
Meals Table d’hote
and a la carte.
Book accommodation
early.
Opp. Theatre Royal, Sydney.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address: “Usherotel,” Sydney,
autti&ttgM
ft ft, 51u>£ SiortsCtH. U
BROAD BAR SHOE.
Diamond punched waist
and strap. Sewn soles.
In Black Patent, Black
Box Calf or. Tan Calf.
7 to 10 11 to 1
9/11 10/11
2 to 3 4 to 5
12/11 13/11
Less Sale Discount of
TEN PER CENT.
(2/- in the £).
r
e
Cll9
lOribe for Ca.talcgX
FOR LADIES 8* CHILDREN
189 PITT ST. 22 STRAND. 105 KING ST
Monday to Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/-
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 12/6; or
I la carte, minimum, 12/6
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 6.30, 5/-
The Ambassadors New Delightful
Dance Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Winea before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
Bert: I dont quite follow the
•> j
QERT*. "OH, BUT ITS PERFECTLY
SIMPLE?
Gert*. Vou see.one side TRIES to
SHOOT, THE BAU- INTO THE
OTHERS &O/AU"
Bert ; v ' \ SEE '!
&ert’'Wad if you hit the giru
in the , you <*er
/\ e>o* of ckocov.ates"t.
Footbrawl
The fifth match of the season between
the N.S.W. and Queensland Rugby Leagues
at Brisbane on Saturday, saw the N.S.W.
side scoop the rubber with an 11-8 win. The
Welshmen scored 3 tries and a goal to 2 tries
and a goal, so there was little in it. The
weather conditions were bad, but play was
much more attractive than on the previous
Saturday, though almost as rough, Bishop,
the'N.S.W. hooker, being sent off. Sliank-
land was very successful on the N.S.W.
wing, as was Holmes at five-eighth. The
Queensland forwards carried the game, with
Edwards the best of the backs.
After the match, the selectors announced
the team to tour the North of England. Of
the 28 players, 17 are N.S.W. men and the
balance from Queensland. The backs are:
McMillan, Shankland, Finch, Ridley, Maher,
Holmes, Weissell, Busch, Fifield and Kadwell
(N.S.W.) ; with Spencer, Gorman, Upton,
Edwards and F. Laws from Queensland. The
N.S.W. forwards are: Justice, Root, Brogan,
Treweeke, Prigg, Bishop and Kingston. The
Queenslanders chosen are: Henderson,
Madsen, Armbruster, Dempsey, Steinohrt
and Sellars. The side is about as good as
could be gathered, the only surprise being
the omission of the veteran Craig.
* * * *
The Rugby League grade fixtures in Syd-
ney on Saturday provided a surprise in the
defeat of the premiers, South Sydney, by
Newtown. The wet conditions suited the
rugged Newtowners, who won a hardly
contested match by 5 to 2—a try and a
penalty goal to a penalty goal. Other results
were: Balmain 9, St. George 2; North
Sydney 12, Glebe 10; Western Suburbs 18,
Eastern Suburbs 8. This is South Sydney’s
first defeat.
* * * *
“Valley”; War correspondents are a
notoriously jealousi lot, and those comprising
the band attending the campaign between the
Queensland and N.S.W. Leagues on the Bris-
bane front are no exception. One of them
wrote an account of the opening game be-
tween the States with a pen dipped in gore
and a style attuned to assault and battery.
One of his rivals thereupon assured the
public that the reptile contemporary’s story
was a mass of terminological inexactitudes.
Which scribe is right is impossible to guess
at this distance, although the people who
buy the journals and make this sort of thing
possible are surely entitled to know.
* * * *
“Poneke”; The M.L. Rugby Union has
published the itinerary for the British team
which will tour the Dominion next season,
then coming on to Australia. The 21 matches
include four Tests, and the opening game
will be against Wanganui on May 21, with
the first Test at Christchurch exactly a
month later. The tourists will leave for Aus-
tralia on August 15, playing seven matches
on this side. Why the All Blacks should
have again decided on four Test games, as
they did on the tour of South Africa, it is
difficult to see. Five or three is the logical
number, enabling, as it does, arrival at a
definite decision. There is always the pos-
sibility of a draw with an even number of
games, as was the case in South Africa last
year.
* # S|i Jjc
“Maroon” ; _ The great vogue of the Rugby
Union game in Maoriland was evidenced in
recent speech by G. A. Maddison, the
Union president, at the annual meeting.
There are 32,000 players taking part in
organised club football alone, representing
1919 affiliated clubs. The figures show an
increase of 43 teams on last season. There
were 686,000 males in the Dominion at the
last census. Taking the moderate estimate
of 20 spectators for every player, it would
appear that 640,000 of them, including in-
fants in arms, take their pleasure in bar-
racking for their favorites.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: South Australia, undismayed
by its defeat at the boots of Victoria in the
first of the season’s inter-State football
matches, is busy preparing for revenge in
the return 'game at Adelaide on July 13,
when the Victorians will drop in on their
way back from Westralia. So far, the two
States have met 50 times, Victoria winning
on 32 occasions, while only one match, that
in 1928, at Adelaide, has been drawn. Twice
Victoria has won five consecutive matches,
South Australia’s best being three in suc-
cession in 1901-02.
* # # ale
“Hotham”: There has been widespread
dissatisfaction in Melbourne this season with
the ..quality of the umpiring in the big
League matches. The authorities are now
considering the advisability of a board of
experts selected from members, coaches and
captains of clubs to review the rules of the
game, and lay down definite interpretations
of them. This it is urged, will force umpires
to conform to a common interpretation, and
will avoid the present tendency for each
individual to practise his own theories with
more or less disastrous effect on the game
and the players.
* * sfc *
“Everton” : The split between the N.S.W.
Football Association and the breakaway
League, which openly declared for profes-
sionalism last year, has been patched after
a fashion. The League will become an
“associate member” of the Australian Asso-
ciation without representation at meet-
ings, and will be allowed to play inter-State
matches. There is little real difference be-
tween the two bodies. Though posing as
an amateur organisation, the association
has long permitted allowances to its tour-
ing players which exceed the rate laid down
by the Amateur Federation, as the manager
of the English team here some years ago
took pains to point out.
Racquet and Bawl
The fourth round of the men’s singles at
Wimbledon on Saturday saw one English-
man, Austin, left in the last eight, after
beating Hunter and Brugnon in the earlier
rounds. America has Lott and Tilden in;
France, Cochet, Borotra and Landry; Hol-
land, Timmer; and Germany, Von Kehrling.
The surprise of the women’s singles was the
elimination of the flapper champion, Eileen
Bennett, by Mrs. Bundy, whose boasts a
family of five children. As May ,Sutton, she
won the championship as long ago as 1905
and 1907, and her comeback is rather a stag-
gerer for the “Youth must be served” school.
* Hi * *
“Splosh” : Speculation in tickets for great
athletic events has long been a feature of
sport in America, where the idea was born,
and in Britain. The English Rugby Union
has recently taken special precautions to pre-
vent profiteering in the reservations for the
big international fixtures at Twickenham, and
it looks as if the English tennis heads will
have to follow suit. There are 3500 reserved
seats at Wimbledon. Some 18,000 appli-
cations were received for them. Advertisers
asked £4O for two tickets for the centre court
during the meeting. The cost of a season
ticket for this court is £4 4s. It is difficult
for non-addicts to imagine anyone paying
£4O for two tickets to watch tennis. Still,
a goat is born every tick of the clock.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: That in-and-out player E. F.
Moon —to be sure, as a farmer, he cannot
get the practice he would like —put up a good
performance in Brisbane during the metro-
politan tennis championships. He took the
singles, the doubles (with R. O. Cummings)
and the mixed doubles with Miss S. Moon,
a sister. The Queenslander lias frequently
shown form entitling him to rank with Aus-
tralia’s best. Pity he has never had a chance
to develop his game by constant play in
first-class company.
The Watermen
“Blade”: AVhen an amiable gentleman
from Philadelphia turned up at the last
Olympiad with a gold cup and the announce-
ment that he intended to present it. to the
winner of the sculling championship, a lot
of people were surprised that the Olympic
Council should consent to accept it. The
donor was the patron of Wally Myers, whom
American opinion considered as unbeatable.
What Australian Bobby Pearce did to Myers
and other opponents is now history, and the
cup came to Australia. Pearce recently re-
ceived an invitation to visit Philadelphia and
again contest the cup with Myers. Just as
lie was getting set for the trip, another cable
came along to say Myers wasn’t taking any
more Pearce in his, thank you, the Olympic
race having convinced him on this subject.
The N.S.W. rowing heads declined to stage a
race for the trophy, so Pearce has fallen back
on a general defiance to all amateur scullers
to have a shy at it. It is probable that Jack
Goulding, of N.S.W., will challenge. As he
is. a famous sprinter in the shells, and the
cup conditions call for only a mile race, some
local optimists are giving him a chance
* * * *
“Slide”: The complaint of a correspondent
in a recent issue of The Bulletin that scul-
ling was being neglected by the younger
generation of oarsmen has been answered by
a perfect boom in the game. Reg Daly,
who coxed the Mosman crew in the King’s
Cup at Perth, is one of the latest recruits
to the shells, and it is estimated that there
will be at least 20 candidates, including
Bobby Pearce, for the Walker and Hall Cup
and the mile championship of the State, both
of which are due for decision shortly. The
hurdle to be crossed is the initial outlay
for a shell and sculls, which runs into some
£4O. That passed, there is no cheaper or
more engrossing form of athletics.
The Nineteenth Hole
The Lakes Golf Club has secured one
of the best areas for a course in N. S. Wales.
Scotsmen compare it to North Berwick and
Englishmen to Sandwich and Westward Ho.
Half a century ago Sydney drew its water
from the chain of lakes between Botany
and what is now Mascot, and the 40-odd
acres of clear water, scrub-covered hillocks,
and grassy flats are as they were then.
Two championship-lengths courses (one pri-
vate and one public) are being laid out by
an expert, who helped to construct Glen-
eagles., and what with their sandy soil and
unlimited, water for fairways, as well as
greens, they should be masterpieces. The
late Denison Miller first got the idea of
persuading the Water and Sewerage Board
to lease this territory for golfing purposes,
but it was George Solomon, the president
of the new club, w T ho brought the scheme
to fruition.
* * * *
“Miss Ogynist”: Glenna Collett, the
American golferine, has been telling the
world that she plays golf for two-thirds of
the year and thinks golf for the other third.
That would give her no time to talk golf,
which is an undiluted blessing. She has
also advised her sisters to waste less time
in beauty parlors and more on the links,
“Golf and grow beautiful” being her motto.
It may work out all right, but some associ-
ates of my acquaintance are evidently not
playing the right brand of golf.
“Hoylakef”: The American invasion of
English golf has had some horrifying results.
Scotland was shaken to its immemorial
foundations a couple of years ago by an en-
trant for the amateur championship who had
his clubs painted in all sorts of variegated
colors. This year worse has happened, and
Jenny n-street and Sackville-row have
mingled their tears with Muirfield and Sand-
wich. A number of the visitors have intro-
duced new sartorial fashion in plus-fours.
With a cold restraint that says much for the
traditional phlegm of the' English the
Tailor and Gutter describes the array of
one individual as consisting of white flannel
plus-fours “with a bright blue overcheck.”
As another item in his get-up was a magenta-
colored pullover, one cannot be but asto-
nished at the moderation of the great Brit-
ish journal.
* * *
“Cash Amateur”: Not content with the
limelight accruing from liis conquest of Bri-
tain, Walter Hagen is seeking new publicity
in the intervals of picking up the five-
dollar pieces which seem to be rained on
him wherever he goes. He has been com-
plaining to an American interviewer that
the clubs are getting chary of paying big
retaining fees for professionals who refused
to remain retained. He added that though
his income from coaching wealthy addicts,
whose aim in life it was to be able to
say they were his pupils, was considerable,
he was much worse paid than a second-
class prizefighter. His interviewer rather
blew the gaff with a subsequent sketch of
Walter’s habits. He has a suite of rooms
at the Biltmore, New York’s swishest hotel,
which costs him £7 per day. He is also
a well-known habitue of the night clubs,
which are such a feature of N.Y. life, and
a gourmet of the first water; and all for
being able to hit a ridiculous little ball about
better than most of his contemporaries.
* H* % ❖
“Brassey”: A well-known Sydney golfer.
T. V. Healy, just returned from England,
has announced that he took motion-pictures
of Walter Hagen in action in the champion-
ship at Muirfield, and intends exhibiting them
for the benefit of his golfer friends. Well
meant as it is, his offer promises to be
a Greek gift. Most of the spectators will
endeavor to remodel their style on that of
the unorthodox Walter, and their last end
will be worse than the first. Imitation may
be the sincerest flattery, but in golf it in-
variably leads to an increased minus handi-
cap.
$ H* $ *
“Divot Digger” : Six N.S.W. golfers have
been selected to represent the State in the
Kirk-Windeyer Cup contest to be held in
Melbourne during the second week in
August. They are Eric Apperley, G. 11.
Fawcett, I. K. Harrison, S. A. Keane, 11.
Morrison and W. R. Smith, four to be finally
selected. Keane’s inclusion will be particu-
larly welcomed. Not yet of age, jhei promises
exceptionally well. Last year lie was run-
ner-up in the State amateur championship
to Fawcett, and he played fine golf through-
out the recent meeting, only to succumb in
the semi-finals to Ivo Whitton, the ultimate
winner of the State title. In Queensland last
year he defeated the Victorian crack.
* * * #
“Old Q.”: Queensland golf associates had
their glorious hour at the recent women’s
championships in Brisbane, which attracted
entries from all over the State. The blue
ribbon of the meeting, the singles champion-
ship, was retained by Miss Dot Hood, with
a total stroke score of 178 —90 and SS. This
is the fifth time the winner has collected
the title. A match between this young
lady and the equally consistent Mona Mac-
leod, of Victoria, should be worth watching.
(Continued on next page.)


For a husky voice.
Delightfully soothing
and refreshing. The
flavour is delicious.
Your Chemist stocks
them —1/* and 1/9
per box.
tAllenbunys’
<sS."cLt, PASTILLE-SI
rrrrf&i
TIT"—
rfIVfLSrYOU €WBUY
de v
a
Vtv c ,A\tv'
ntee s
e==
Ct^>
c sH«-f'
4 THE X
RENRUT
QUADRUPLE
HAND PUMP
Price, 45/
(With Gauge,
extra.)
If unable to obtain,
write to our Factory
Representative?
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Mel-
bourne, Australia.
Kept N
Beautiful with %
SIMONIZ are
Always Beautiful
Everywhere you go you see thousands of
beautiful cars —kept so by Simonizing—and
many of them are two and three years old.
Simoniz solves the problem of keeping cars
new and beautiful, as well as making the
finish last longer and keeping the colors
from fading.
In fact, Simoniz and Simoniz Kleener are
regarded as almost indispensable in the care
of Duco and lacquers, for they mate it
possible to retain the lustre and beauty of
these motor-car finishes for years.
There is no excuse for anyone driving a
cloudy and dull-looking car, for it is so easy
to get wonderful, lasting results with Simoniz
and Simoniz Kleener. Simoniz Kleener
quickly restores the lustre and color by
removing all grime, discolorations and blem-
ishes. Then Simoniz gives lasting beauty
and weatherproof protection.
The sooner you Simoniz your car, the better.
NEW CARS should always be Simonized.
I Insist on Simoniz and Simoniz Kleener —
I they make the finish last longer.
MOTORISTS WISE SIMONIZ.
Sold by all Good Motor Houses, Service Stations and
Hardware Stores at 2/6 Small Cans; 5/- Large Cans,
'n case you cannot obtain locally, see note below.
M
A
D
E
I
N
A
U
S
T
R
A
L
I
A
Z&asrjxitn'
jtfif srZAfjQSpfi
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
SIMONIZ PRODUCT—
SIMONIZ
PENETRATING
GRAPHITE
OIL
"LOOSENS THE TIGHTEST
NUT”
Simoniz Penetrating
Graphite Oil instantly
DISSOLVES RUST,
LUBRICATES CAR
SPRINGS,
STOPS CHASSIS
AND
BODY SQUEAKS,
FREES GUMMED
.MOTOR VALVES,
LOOSENS ALL
TIGHT NUTS AND
BOLTS.
Sold in handy Boz. can
with long spout. Price.
2/6. IF YOU CANNOT
OBTAIN SIMONIZ PRO-
DUCTS FROM YOUR
USUAL DEALER. SEND
POSTAL-NOTE TO
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS,
MOTORITE EQUIPMENTS PTY., LTD.,
Carlton, Melbourne.
FREE SAMPLES
OF SIMONIZ AND
KLEENER ON REQUEST.
SIM
ro«
AY!
Apply with a cloth
Car and Cycle
“C.Q.”: Phillip Island (Vic.) has lately
been agitated at the discovery that the
road races which make the place a Mecca
for motorists every March are illegal.
Much money has been spent by the resi-
dents in improving the tracks and round-
ing off the corners, and an improved ferry
for transporting cars has been put on the
route, so the prospect of losing the Grand
Prix looks like financial massacre to the dis-
trict. However, the McPhairson Govern-
ment has promised to bring in a bill next
session granting the island 12 days’ exemption
annually. The race last year attracted thou-
sands of people, and it proved to be far safer
for contestants and general public than a
similar event held in any area on the
ciainland.
* * # #
“Avocatus Diaboli” : I’m willing to admit
that attempts to break city to city motoring
records are dangerous and dreary enterprises,
and ought to be discouraged; but there’s one
thing to be said about nine out of ten of the
men who undertake them —they are com-
petent drivers, and they very seldom have
accidents. The speed at which a man can
safely drive is entirely a matter of sobriety,
judgment, experience and road-knowledge.
The alert record-breaker hurtling over a
bumpy country road at 60 miles an hour isn’t
nearly as much a menace to human life as the
beer-stupefied truck charioteer who ambles
along a city street at a fourth of the speed,
or the woman driver who, in an emergency,
is as likely to step hard on the accelerator
pedal as to apply the brakes.
* * * *
“E H.C.L.” ,(S. Africa) : Nobody but Capt.
Malcolm Campbell and the men, white and
black, who were associated with him in his
Verneuk Pan record know how much work
was put into preparing the surface. The pan
is an old lake-bed, piedisli-shaped, 30 miles
long and 10 miles wide, 400 miles north of
Capetown. It is as nearly level as any such
patch of earth could be, but before it was fit
for the Blue Bird’s flight a 12 miles streak,
dead level for a width of 50ft. and almost
nearly dead level for a width of 210 ft., had to
be prepared. Ironstone outcrops and other
mounds were removed, cracks were filled up,
and the whole surface was scraped and then
swept by hand and top-dressed with a paint
of wet clay. The Government subsidised the
w T ork, and Campbell had the aid of a couple
of volunteer engineering students. Now there
is a project afoot to convert the whole area
of the pan into the world’s greatest and
smoothest speedway.
* * * #
“Bats”: The latest aspirant for the speed
record is an English engineer named Villiers,
who has designed a six-wheeled car with
which he will try to put up new figures at
Daytona in 1931. The jigger will have eight
wheels, all directly driven, the whole appa-
ratus weighing tons. The motor, develop-
ing 3000 h.p., will give a guaranteed speed
of 300 m.p.h. and a possible maximum of
400. Under the circumstances, it is not sur-
TOM GORMAN, the Queensland Rugby
League centre threequarter, who, though-
he is nearing the veteran stage, is still
one of the best in the game.
prising to hear that the inventor will not
occupy the driver’s seat himself, but will
steer his bantling with an invisible beam
from a radio transmitter.
* * 'A-
“Clutch”: Segrave has been at it again.
He celebrated his retirement from motor
racing with a ’busman’s holiday in which
he drove 500 miles from Orleans in France
to Barcelona in Spain, at an average rate
of nr.p.h. Considering that the route
ran through the lofty and intricate passes
of the Pyrenees, there must have been
moments when he was really moving.
* * * *
“Kick Starter”: Another 10,000 miles
ride round Australia commenced last week,
when two Sydney motor-cyclists left the Har-
bor City for Darwin and back via Brisbane,
Camooweal, Kalgoorlie, Adelaide and Mel-
bourne. A single machine with a special
sidecar is being used, and the gear carried
ran into 3cwt. The pair are after the record
for the trip and are to run a daily schedule.
Special fuelling stations have been laid
down, so that the longest run between
stations will be only 300 miles. Stunts of
this kind are becoming monotonous, and there
is little value in them beyond a certain
amount of advertisement.
Miscellaneous
“Tenth Slip”: A good deal of interest has
been aroused among cricketers by the expiry
of the agreement between the N.S.W.
Cricket Association and the trustees of
the Sydney Cricket Ground. The ground
was primarily dedicated to cricket, but
the trustees have the power to adjust the
percentages due to them, and it is feared in
some quarters that the charges to the asso-
ciation will be raised, as membership fees
FRANK UNDERWOOD, secretary of the
N.S.W. Sports Club, and a famous
athlete of other days.
have lately been. The agonised howls of the
Rugby League when it was asked to disgorge
a larger proportion of its huge profits, fol-
lowed by its departure from the ground, are
fresh in memory, and the public is wondering
whether the C.A. will also depart, yelping
bitterly, to seek fresh fields and pastures
new. There is little danger of that.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip” : The latest exponent of lost
causes is Monty Noble, who has made yet
another attack on the Board of Cricket Con-
trol in his book on Test cricket. It is sur-
prising to note the interest accorded the
attack by the English press. Australians
familiar with the story of the attempt made
by Noble and his confreres in 1912 to defy
the board are paying hardly any attention
to it. The Australian cricket world long ago
endorsed the board’s determination to take
the control of international cricket out of
private hands. That control has since been
attended with marked success, though there
has always been a disgruntled coterie, usually
backed by a section of the N.S.W. press,
which has been ready to belittle it. Great
cricketer as he is, Monty would have done
well to let the old feud drop.
* * # *
“Amateur Pro.”: Our leading lights of
cricket have a proper regard for their rights,
as they visualise them. Recently the Board
of Control, through the State organisations,
resolved to present, the players in the last
Test matches with an additional bonus of
£lO each. Also it asked that each State
should request its Sheffield Shield players to
start play an hour or so earlier each day so
as to avoid the necessity for the unprofitable
half-day’s play on the fifth day. N.S.W.
players have graciously consented to accept
the bonus, but are adamant on the question
of adhering to the original hours. Somehow,
their attitude recalls the famous slogan of
the English coa] strikers : “Not a minute on ;
not a penny off.”
* ❖ * *
“The Gaffer”: The Maorilanders having
resolved to invite a team of Canadian
athletes to tour the Dominion next season,
the Victorians are asking for a share of the
visitors. They can have it, they have been
informed, provided they pay a third of the 1
preliminary expenses, a third of the return
fares between M.L. and Canada, full fares
and expenses from the Dominion to Aus-
tralia and back, and any additional costs
•that may be incurred. It is a stiff proposi-
tion, but if the team is a high-class one a
profit should be forthcoming. In Victoria
track and road athletics get splendid sup-
port from the public.
❖ * its its
“Blue Chequer” : Pigeon-racing, once con-
fined to the North of England pitmen, has
fairljr taken the Cold Country by the wool.
A railway authority states that the number
of homers carried on the lines for release
last season was near 15 millions. The rail-
way cos. provide special carriages for the
birds, with attendants, electric light and
heating.
# i'fi
“C.Q.” : The marker in the match between
English billiardist Willie Smith and Fred
Lindrum in Melbourne was called upon to
give a decision on a situation that in his
lifelong experience of the game had never
cropped up before. Lindrum had played a
shot which left the white hanging over the
edge of the pocket. While.he was excogitat-
ing his next manoeuvre the .ball tumbled in.
It had to be replaced.
sis sis :1s *
“Blue Chalk” : Willie Smith is an unusual
sort of champion. Most professional holders
of a title guard it jealously, usually stalling
off dangerous challengers as long as possible,
since the glamor attaching is good for the
bank account. After Smith scored his first
win in 1919-20 from Falkiner, he let the
title slide for a couple of seasons, and then
came out to down Tom Newman in 1923.
That was his last appearance in a champion-
ship match, though there is little doubt that
the Yorkshire linotype-operator is easily the
best player in English billiards to-day.
❖ H* sjs
“Bamboo”: Captain Pearson, one of the
Australian party of polo players who figured
in Hawaii and America last season, has re-
turned to Sydney much impressed with
American polo methods. As with everything
else American, the game is organised to the
limit, and the clubhouses and grounds are
superb, the latter being kept exclusively for
polo. The game is played all the year round,
young men following the seasons from north
to south and back again. Hard riders and
hitters, they play the game for all it is
worth, and take all sorts of chances. The
all-the-year-round feature is interesting.
Most golfers following this practice are open
professionals, and tennis “ampteurs” are pro-
vided for by liberal “expenses.” Unless these
last are forthcoming in polo, it would seem
the game is confined to retired millionaires
in the States.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Swan” : A contingent of Victorian bowlers
have left for Fiji to defend their title of
champions of the Pacific. An event which is
attracting even greater interest is the cen-
tenary tournament which begins in Perth on
October 31. First-class trophies are offered
for fours, rinks and singles, and State secre-
taries have been authorised to accept entries..
As the climate of Perth in October induces
a magnificent type of thirst, it is expected
that every bowler in Australia able to make
the trip will be there.
*■* * *
“Shinty”: Something new in deputations
was seen in Sydney when the Women's
Hockey Association invaded the Acting Pre-
mier’s room to ask the Government to provide
more playing areas for women’s sports.
They told the wondering Buttonhole that
there were 10,000 young females engaged in
sport in Sydney, whereas grounds available
for them were scarcer than prospective mil-
lionaire husbands. The Hockey Association
alone numbered a thousand players and had
to pay £6OO for the use of grounds only 18
days in the year. The ladies received the
usual promises and left looking well satis-
fied. They have yet to learn that Minis-
terial promises are rarely fulfilled. Still
they achieved something concrete; each on
leaving was presented with an apple, in
addition to the apple sauce.
“Feng-Shui” : The cosmopolitan population
of Shanghai has gone to the dogs with a whole-
lieartedness unequalled by any other commu-
nity. There are nightly tin-hare meetings
during the six months’ season, and the amount
of money which changes hands is variously
estimated at from one million to two million
pounds, largely made up of the earnings of
coolies. Local newspapers give pages to the
subject, and Chinese journals come out with
colored supplements, while sandwich men
daily parade the streets carrying announce-
ments of forthcoming meetings. The usual
reaction has begun, missionaries objecting
because of the moral consequences and mer-
chants because of the falling off in their busi-
ness and the increase in bad debts, always
an enormous item in “the East.” An amus-
ingly familiar touch is the donations made
to charity by Celestial magnates,. who are
making fortunes out of the game, though
nobody has got a title out of it up to date.


You pay no more
for Goodyear
Tyres and Tubes,
made in Australia,
than for any other
make.
r~~
r
v
55
A Supertwist cord-
testing machine
can be obtained
by any Goodyear
dealer at very
small cost.
Supertwist
Gives Greater
Endurance
' *
E
Press down on the
Goodyear Tyre Tread.
The deep-cut diamond
blocks grip your hand.
That is how they grip
the road safe and
slipless.
THE two cord-testing machines
* pictured above demonstrate the
superiority of Goodyear Supertwist
cord over ordinary cord.
These two machines show the
greater stretch of Supertwist—-up
to 60 per cent -—giving the body
of Goodyear tyres, made in
Australia, vitality and ability to
withstand all road shocks without
premature failure.
EAR
28-10 0.


è
A “De Luxe” Watch
Is the Ideal Gift
For All Occasions
There are designs and prices in Catanach’s famous “De Luxe
Watches to suit all buyers for all occasions. Every Watch is
fully guaranteed and represents the best Watch Value in the
Commonwealth.
Call and see the magnificent range of new designs now showing,
or write for your requirements. “De Luxe”. Watches are
guaranteed by and obtainable only from Catanach’s.
Cr. Royal Arcade and Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE, C.l.
£6/15/-
24 D L 53 —Distinctive “De Luxe” Wrist M atch, 9ct.
Gold, 15 jewels.
m
a
50/-
94 D L. 70 —Gent.’s "tie tuxe ’ Wrist Watch, Lumi-
nous Dial, 15 jewels, Lever Movement, Nickel.
Sterling Silver, 60/-
W-McF.
Melbourne
Chatter
After the fog and frost of the early hours
Saturday was a perfect day, and a goodly
crowd flocked to Moonce Valley racecourse,
but it was an unfortunate meeting
for punters, and also for two horses
which were killed. Fur formed a big
part in the dressing, and those women
who didn’t wear coats of some pelt
attached fur necklets or collars to tweed suits
and cloth wraps. Mayor and Mayoress
Luxton were guests at the official luncheon,
she topping a mink coat with a nigger-brown
felt hat Mrs. Russell Clarke, well -tailored
in grey and black heather tweed; Mrs. Joseph
Fell and Mr. and Mrs. E. Gorman, who
accompanied the Rogers Thomsons, weie
also at the board. Chairman Maclunnon, of
the V.R.C., was there to see his new pur-
chase, Kentle, have a win. Mrs. Mackin-
non wore mink.
Since the company controlling the Vic-
toria Coffee Palace sold its Collms-street
frontage to the City Council, the manage-
ment has inaugurated what looks like a con-
tinuous building scheme in Little Collins-
strcet. The many entrances are quite be-
wildering. Business goes on as usual, anu
the 400 women who went to play bridge there
the other day for the cause of the Q.\ .14.
were delighted with the Tudor lounge,
approached by a marble staircase from the
street vestibule. The fine room, with its
striking windows and handsome furnishings,
was lent for the afternoon. All the refresh-
ments and a cheque for 25 guineas went
along with it, the staff giving their services
free for the cause. Mrs. W. M. Robins, who
was largely responsible for the success of the
affair, flitted about in a black velvet coat
with collar of grey fur and a black hat. fehe
was aided by workers who vended flowers,
sweets and home-made cakes, bringing the
receipts up to £lBO. Mrs. Norman Brookes,
as president of the Q.V.H., returned thanks
for generous assistance, and was echoed
by Councillor Kane. j
' When Thomas Fitzgerald was this city’s
most celebrated surgeon, his hospital,
situated in the vicinity of Menzies’, was m
a fashionable area. After his passing it
remained a nursing home till Mrs. Burnell
came into possession, changed its name, to
Academy House and let it out as studios.
There were no trams running in those
days to West or North Melbourne, but, lured
by its spacious quietness, tenants came and
remained, till it gained a modest degree ot
fame from their presence. Now, after many
years, it is to regain something of its old
atmosphere. The Queen Victoria Hospital,
just behind, having overgrown its accom-
modation, has acquired it as a home for its
nurses.
The Emily McPherson College of Domestic
Economy has made another forward stride
with the official opening by Education
Minister Cohen of its training hostel. 11ns
addition to the school will turn out students
fully equipped to take charge of any house-
hold, large or small. The course covers
three years, and every student must take a
turn at managing the hostel. The fine blue
stone building which served as the residence
of the Govenor of Melbourne’s oldest prison
has been converted into an up-to-date dwell-
ing, the bed-sitting rooms of which are made
comfortable and cheery with Jacobean fur-
niture and pretty cretonnes. There is an
airy dining-room and a kitchen equipped
with the very latest electrical and other
appliances. There is accommodation for 24
students, with a garden—the old exercise
yard, now a place of flower-plots and
flower-boxes trim the window-sills that over-
look it. The principal of the college handed
the Minister a silver match-box, and asked
him to kindle the fire in the living-room
according to the old traditions of liouse-
wmrming. Received that day was a letter
from the Duchess of York, who opened the
college, expressing regret at the death ot
the Premier’s lady, whose generous mone-
tary help made the institution possible. The
Duchess is an honorary holder of the col-
lege’s diploma.
A bevy of maidens robed in white and
holding pink posies hostessed a cheery hop at
No. 9 one evening last week. Among the
dancers were the numerous debutantes of
the Newman Society Ball of a few weeks
ago; and H. Shelton, president of the News-
man Society, and his wufe were guests of
honor. Mrs. Barry and Mrs. Coffey, who
w r ere responsible for the arranging of the.
debs.’ set at their first .ball, were given gifts
of crystal as mementoes of the occasion.
The management of the Botanical Hotel,
opposite the Gardens, gave house-room and
cheer one evening last week for a bridge
party in the interests of St. Vincent’s Hos-
pital, the proceeds of the affair, which was
organised by the Melbourne and East Mel-
bourne branches, going to replace, breakages
in the crockery cupboard of the institution.
Leading rdles were played by Mrs. Merson
Cooper, general president of the auxiliary;
Mrs. Guy Bowchcr, sec., and Mrs. T. V.
Milica, ticket sec.
Leg. Councillor Kiernan and his wife pre-
sided over a coffee-brewing at Parliament
House at which some members of Pavlova’s
company were entertained. Walford Hyden,
the conductor of the orchestra, and his wife,
known on the boards as Madame Nordi,
Avere among the guests.
Students of Queen’s College jazzed at
Ormond Hall last week, and their , head,
the Rev. Walwyn Kernick, and his wife did
the honors.
The Signals Officers gave a dance at
Ormond Hall on Thursday night. The presi-
dent, Colonel C. H. Simpson, with Mrs. Simp-
son, she in blue georgette with an uneven
hemline, received the guests. General Ohauvel
and his youthful-looking lady, whose green
draperies were sprinkled with gold, were
among the guests.
Though he shouldn’t have arrived so early
the cuckoo was heard twittering around Mai-
vern Town Hall the other night. Quite a
melodious bird it was, as imitated in the
music of Frederic Delius and interpreted by
the Malvern Symphony Orchestra under the
guidance of William Mallinson. The com-
position, “On Hearing the First Cuckoo in
Spring,” had its first performance in Aus-
tralia, and was warmly welcomed. The
“Jupiter” Symphony of Mozart, and works
by Beethoven, Berlioz, Brahms and others
supplemented the Delius number. Gertrude
Ilealy, with her fiddle, and Victor Wilson,
in song, were soloists.
The new city organ, which has 7000 pipes
and 400 stops, reverberated through the
Town Hall on Thursday for the first time
at an invitation midday recital, when Mayor
Buxton and other city fathers listened to
their £38,000 musical investment. There
was quite a flutter when Dr. W. G. Price
stepped forth with a pile of scores to mount
to his throne before the tiered keyboard, but
before the anthem rolled out in floods of
jubilant tone the Mayor introduced the audi-
ence to the instrument. The volume of sound
was enormous, and nervous folk feared the
vibrations would cause disaster to the chan-
deliers, but nothing of the sort happened.
Dr. Price’s offerings included the D minor
Toccata and Fugue of Bach, the overture to
“William Tell” and other numbers that
enabled the organist to put a variety of stops
through their paces. The Mayoress, the
Morell lady and daughter Sheila, many musi-
cians, medical-knight James Barrett and
Prof. A. Gunn and his wife were among the
first hearers of the grand instrument.
This is Alice Smith, the only woman
selected from the teaching staff of the Uni.
to contribute to the just-concluded fort-
night of popu-
1a r lectures.
She give£ in-
struction at
the Training
College in the
art of speak-
in g English,
which is a
much more
complex busi-
ness than it
sounds, for it
includes stage-
craft. She has
youth, good
looks and a
soft, fascinat-
ing voice, and
her six lec-
tures attracted
overflow audi-
e n c e s. She
hails from
Kent, and did
a three-years’ course at the Central School
of Speech Training and Dramatic Study
in London. Before coming to these parts
she had six years’ experience in teaching at
private schools and colleges, and gave recitals
in London.
Mrs. Monty Grover, in a mole coat over
a black and pink patterned velvet frock and
a geranium-red felt hat, was one of the
afternoon-tea givers of last week. The
Quamby Club was the rendezvous, and a
string orchestra gave a pleasant cloak to
chatter. Bowls of pink carnations and Ice-
land poppies decorated the dining-room.
Among the guests were the Quick lady ; Mrs.
James Purves and her sister Florrie Green ;
Mrs. C. B. Pitt, returned from Sydney to
take up permanent abode here again; Mrs.
Harold Clapp; Helen Rennie and her sister
Gertrude, the founder of this woman’s social
club.
At No. 9 one evening last week the Old
Ruytonians held their hop and brought
school pennants and colors to deck the
favored dance resort. Margaret Vance and
Paddy Love were debs, in white array, and
Mrs. L. E. Vance, president of the 0.R.,
headed ' the controlling committee. Hilda
Daniell, principal of Ruyton, wearing black
with a sparkle of jet sequins, beamed upon
the gathering.
Brailowsky played the Tschaikowsky Con-
certo with the Uni. Symphony Orchestra at
the Town Hall on Saturday night, and was
enthusiastically applauded by a house full
to overflowing. The recent addition to the
staff, Mrs. de Marquette (Madame Joy
McArden) sang, and had to respond to two
encores after her Wagnerian operatic num-
bers. She is young and handsome, and wore
a shortish pale-gold gown that was draped
about the hip-line in Egyptian mode with
a rope of pearls. All smiles, she gathered
in a harvest of posies of early wattle, violet
and other blooms. Mayor and Mayoress
Luxton, Uni. Chancellor MacFarland, the
handled James Barrett, Robert Best and his
lady, the Hennessy and Allen ladies, Mrs.
James Purves and Valerie, whose pink velvet
evening coat was a spot of color in the front
chairs; Mrs. Harry Emmerton and her niece
Mary Emmerton, and Mrs. H. PI. Smith were
in the audience. Bernard Heinze conducted
the orchestra.
The Queen Victoria Hospital, of which
she is president, being her particular charity
interest. Mrs. Norman Brookes, pictured
here by La-
fa ye 11 e, is
handing over
her home,
Kurneh, South
Y a r r a, on
July 8 for
bridge, a caf6-
chantant and
sales of sweets
and flowers in
the afternoon,
and bridge and
dancing at
night, in aid
of the hospi-
tal’s funds.
Mrs. Brookes,
who is the
wife of the
tennis star, has
undertaken to
pr ovi d e re-
f reshm ents,
and will
raffle a chest of linen. The Best lady is
chairwoman of the organising committee,
which hopes to make hundreds and hun-
dreds of pounds in a few hours.
Mrs. Norman Brookes asks people who
have unsold tickets for the fete at Kurneh
on the Bth to return them as soon as possible.
The skirl of the pipes escorted Sir Harry
Lauder through the toon on his arrival here
on Friday. The comedian was so pleased
with the reception that he ordered drinks all
round for the pipers, and yet another one
(I’m no’ joking), and gave them passes for
the show. At the Theatre Royal the famous
Scot found lots of old friends to greet him.
Judging from the opening night he’s going
to have a good season. The Charles Taits,
Mrs. H. S. K. Ward, Dr. and Mrs. Ebbs-
worth and Aileen Castles were first-nighters.
Y.A.L. boys, just back from their visit to
the U.S.A.,' were greeted friendlil.y during
the week, when, with flags flying, they paid
their respects to Mayor Luxton. The band,
with bright blue capes lined with gold, made
a splendid show, and the diminutive drum-
major, in his white and gold uniform, was a
most important person. The lads bound for
Tassie, Adelaide and Perth participated m
the welcomes extended at lunch and dance a
gorgeous finish to a bonzer holiday.
Melbourne gave Pavlova a royal send-off.
His Majesty’s was crowded from floor to
roof, and even the boxes had an overflow
of patrons. Lots of flowers and small gifts
were the reward of all the artists. The star
paced a gavotte gracefully in a buttercup-
satin directoire gown, fluttered in the white
plumage of the succumbing swan, and gave
other favorite numbers. She flitted between
the red and gold curtains many times to
make her bow, laden with posies and a
mammoth laurel wreath, but no word did
she utter. The last peep at the dancer was
in a carnival number, when the powder-
blue beribboned frocks of the ballet maidens
and orange velvet jerkins of their partners
filled in the background for the pink tulle
flounces spread with gold leaves yvom by
Pavlova.
During the week Helen Patterson, fa®
blonde leading lady of “The Five-o clock
Girl,” scattered a libation over the new made-
in-Australia passenger aeroplane, and cadea
it the Lascoter. Comedian Alfred Fnth
stood in the limelight also as sponsor. Cap-
tain F. Neale piloted the ’plane on
flight, taking Miss Patterson and Mr. h nth
as passengers. The machine was designed
and built by the Larkin Aircraft Co., Coode
Island.
Two old Western District families were
united by the marriage of Arthur Brough-
ton’s only daughter Nancy to Mrs. A. C.
Desailly’s only son Jock. The ceremony
was performed in the widow’s drawing-
room at Oakdene, Hamilton, before a
miniature altar (lent by Canon Jessop, who
officiated) which had seen service at the
front during the Great W ar. The bride was
in shimmering satin with a beautiful old
lace veil, lent by Mrs. Dale. A cousin,
Mrs. Cecil Botterell, and the bridegroom s
sister Linda were attendants.
The hat is being passed round for
Australia’s heroines, now a woman of 71,
living in very straitened circumstances at
Horsham. She is Mrs. Turnbull, a widow,
who, at the age of 7, as Jane Duff, was lose
in the Malice for nine days with her two
younger brothers. They endured awful pri-
vations before they were discovered, and the
girl sacrificed herself to keep the other child-
ren alive, stripping off her clothes to cover
the youngest boy, aged 4, and carrying him
in her arms over countless miles. The rail-
way siding at Nourcoung, in the district
where the episode occurred, has been renamed
Duffton in her honor, and the school children
of the State made her a presentation just
after her exploit, but she now stands in
need of more substantial recognition.
David Sisserman, a ’cellist in the Pavlova
orchestra, has decided to take up his resi-
dence with us for a time. H'e has linked
up with Albert-street Con., and the Mel-
bourne Symphony Orchestra will have the
benefit of his talent. Peter Bornstein, the
first violinist of the co., has also succumbed
to the lure of Australia, and has joined the
staff of Adelaide Uni. Con.
Efforts of the Housewives’ Association
of Victoria to reduce the H.C.L. have gone
on from fishes to loaves. Having caused
the fishmonger pangs by cutting his prices,
the association has decided that the baker
must be the next to toe the line. The lady
at the helm is the lately-elected president,
Mrs. Percy Russell, and she has made
arrangements for the sale, at certain shops,
of 41b. loaves at Bd., instead of the lOd. to
Is. charged by most of our breadmakers.
The price of meat and vegetables will be
tackled next.
Avenel, daughter of the Darcy Grays, of
Coleraine, well known as a horsewoman at
Western District shows and gymkhanas,
and a winner of many prizes, has joined the
Alfred’s nursing staff. She. is one of many
society girls whose services _ have been
accepted by the institution during the last
two years, and, despite prophecies to the
contrary, all are sticking to the job.
Though the Arthur Bloomfields have a South
Yarra house, which they inhabit during the
winter months, their week-ends are spent
at their Gisborne home, once the property
of the late Jane Staughton. In her time
it was only an occasional. resting-place, but
Mr. Bloomfield has farming instincts and
finds the raising of record crops more in-
spiring than city achievements. The
panelled interior of the house forms a hue
setting for Mrs. Bloomfield’s collection ot
Georgian silver.
The industrial trouble just ended in Mel-
bourne held up, amongst other works, the
building of the new wing of Parliament
House. Consequently members won t have
the comfortable dining-room they hoped for
this session. The building has been re-wired
for electric lighting and the lamps have been
modernised. Ashamed of the moss that grew
between the chinks of the stones forming tin 1
front steps the Government has had the gaps
fiat-pointed with slate-colored cement. Since
State Parliament has returned to the Spring-
street establishment two Governments have
found out that its upkeep is pretty expen-
sive.
The feminist cause here is losing a staunch
advocate in Mrs. John Jones, who is off to
make a home in England, her husband having
been appointed rector at Marlborough. In
addition to her never-ending duties as a
clergyman’s wife, Mrs. Jones was long con-
nected with the Women’s Citizens’ movement,
of which she was president for a number ot
years, and was one of our first women Jus-
tices of the Peace. She has proved herself
an excellent public speaker.
A fine old-fashioned gentleman was Samuel
Winter Cooke, one of the Western District
squattocracy, who banded in his tally in
the Cold Land the other day while on a
visit. After graduating at Cambridge and
settling down to sheep-raising, he got the
urge for politics at 41, and entered the
Uppish House. From January, 1893, to
September, 1894, he was Hon. Minister under
J B Patterson, and helped in the adminis-
tration of the Chief Sec.’s and other depart-
ments. Leaving the Plush Chamber in 1991
he served three years in the Reps, as member
for the district now embodied in Wannon.
His style of speaking and manner were
faintly reminiscent of that model Parliamen-
tarian, Murray Smith. He outlived the gieac
majority of his Parliamentary contem-
poraries. Married twice, he left no family.
Melbourne Club mourns one of its oldest
members.


DISTINCTIVE RINGS
DOUBLE LILY
SHAMROCK
ROSE
wm
FORGET-ME-NOT
WATTLE
The latest Hand-chased
Wedding Rings, in 1 Bct.
White Gold . . £l/1/-
Platinum, from . . £5
Diamond Ring, with
Diamond - set
Shoulders, £27/10/-
Calibre-cut Diamond-
se t in Platinum,
£lOO.
Others from . . £4O
Diamond Ring, with
Diamond-set "Step”
Shoulders . . . £lOO
\
Two-diamond Ring,
with Diamond-set
Shoulders .... £5O
Diamond Ring, with
Diamond - set
Shoulders, £26/5/*
Th ree-diamond Ring,
with Diamond-set
Shoulders .... £45
Three-diamond Ring,
with Diamond-set
Shoulders .. . £l4O
Diamond-set Circle
Ring, fine White Bril-
liant-cut Diamonds,
from .. . £l6/16/-
DISTINCTIVE RINGS.
The superb quality of the gems selected for use in Drummond’s
Rings contributes in no small degree to their distinctive appear-
ance, but it requires the masterly skill of the firm’s experts to
impart that added exclusiveness that has always been associated
with their Diamond and Gem Rings. Both the quality and the
distinctiveness of the rings illustrated can best be appreciated
by a personal inspection.
m. Brummonti & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
More Boob for All Trades
Price. Postage.
Stainless Iron and Steel. Manufacture, etc. By J. Monypenny 26/- 1/4
American Soap Makers’ Guide. Up-to-date Treatise on Manu-
facture of Soaps, Candles and Allied Toilet Preparations.
Stanislaus 60/- 1/8
Alternating Current Rectification and Allied Problems. Mathe-
matical and Practical Treatment. By T. Jolley 36/- 1/3
Electric Rectifiers and Valves. By Guntherschulze 19/- 1/-
Electric Switch and Controlling Gear. Handbook on Design,
Manufacture and Use of Switch Gear and Switchboards,
etc. Garrard 75/6 1/6
Household Refrigeration. Complete Treatise on Principles,
Types, Construction, Operation of Ice- and Mechanically-
cooled Domestic Refrigerators. Hall 21/- 1/-
Marine Boiler Management and Construction. Treatise on
Boiler Troubles and Repairs. Stromeyer 26/- Bd.
Internal Combustion Engine. Textbook on Gas, Oil and Petrol
Engines. Wimperis . 16/- Sd,
Thread-cutting Methods. Jones 15/- 1/-
Drilling Practice. Hammond 10/- 1/-
Automatic Screw Machines. Treatise on Construction, Design
and Operation. Hamilton 10/- 1/-
Foundations of Bridges, and Buildings. By Jacoby 36/- lOd.
Concrete Year Book, 1929. Handbook. By Faber 6/6 6d.
Processes of Flour Manufacture. Amos 12/- 4d.
Galvanising. Theoretical and Practical Treatise. Bablik .. . 16/- 6d.
Wood-carving. Woodworker Series 4/6 4d.
Sawmill and Wood-converting Machinery. With Notes on
Construction, Speeds, etc. Bale 6/6 4d.
Sketching in Lead Pencil. For Architects and others. Salwey 10/- Bd..
Die-making. Practical Work. Colvin 12/- 6d.
Machine Tools and Workshop Practice. By Parr 20/- 1/4
Ford Electrical Equipment. Starting, Lighting, Ignition .... 12/6 4d-
Electrica! Equipment of the Motor-car. By Moretcn 21/- 1/-
Motor-cycling Manual. Ali about Motor-cycles 3/6 4d.
Boys’ Book of Wireless. How to Make Crystal Set. Two-,
Three- and Four-valve Sets 5/6 6d.
Motor-car Upholstery. Plainly-written book on Motor-car
Trimming and Upholstery 12/6 6d.
Art of Decorating Show Windows and Displaying Merchan-
dise. A Complete and Authentic Manual. Rogers .. . 24/- 1/6
Manual of Show Window Backgrounds for Mercantile Dis-
plays. Burdg 21/- 1/-
Practical Electric Welding. Swift 6/6 4d.
Lathe Work for Beginners. Practical Treatise, by Rafates ... 10/- 6d.
Modern Painters’ Cyclopedia. F. Maire 10/- Bd.
Engineering Workshop Manual for Turners, Fitters and
General Machinists. Pull 3/6 4d.
More About How to Draw in Pen and Ink. By Furniss 6/- 6d.
Concrete Products and Cast Stone. Manufacture and uses.
Childe .. . 6/6 Bd.
Write for Lists on all Technical Subjects to
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
TECHNICAL BOOK SHOP,
CASTLEREAGH & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Fine in the Beginning
c Wow
&AAAAM
PAI&t
Model 6x5 Five'Passenger Sedan
Although the first Graham'Paige car ever
built early in 1928 —was a fine car
which the public immediately accepted
on the reputation of its builders today’s
Graham'Paige is a better car for this
organization is always striving unceasingly
to improve its product and thus insure the
confidence of the public.
w


Under
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1920.
To H.M.
Kin^
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
CMAMPACKS
'■hariesllcidsie»>
REIMS
hk —,
6 1 *)
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrersts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
9
narantee of Wentworth Service,
Smart people—the leaders —always congregate at the Went-
worth —the most efficiently-managed hotel in Australia.
They know, from their personal experience, the real mean-
ing of service which is personally guaranteed by Mrs. xi.
Maclurcan, the Governing Director.
Wentworth comfort and cuisine is a byword among
seasoned hotel guests.
Wire or write for reservations.
9 fie Wentworth
fry
Church Hill,
Sydney.
fce2»
r-r 2
FOR MARKING LINEN
. Saves a
“mix up ,J
in the
wash
ê
Any name
woven
in fast
colors
ShaMEs!
“A Few Stitches and they’re on”
K.S.Talbot
Actual Size Style No. 2
Sold by all leading Drapers.
Write for Pattern Sheet to
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond,
Melbourne.
PRICES
12 dot, 7'6
6 dot, S'
3dog 3 7 6
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
If you were web-footed you went out to
Watson’s or across to Bradley’s to see tne
Fleet come in on Friday ; if you were merely
lucky enough to be travelling on the ferries
between 10 and 11 you got a nying-fish a view
of the pageant. It was one of the dirtiest
June days Sydney has known. Glum and
glowering, it looked like a typical morning
off Newfoundland. Bain, slapping, flapping
sheets of it, fell into the harbor, which was
roofed with lead. The G.-G. on the little
Marguerite off Bradley s took the salute, first
of the majestic Australia and Canberra, then,
in turn, of the smaller nine vessels ot tlie
fleet of Australia and Maoriland. Later, three
seaplanes from the Albatross piped them to
their moorings, the Australians in harm Cove
and off Garden Island, the Diomede and
Dunedin in Sydney Cove, where they tied
up rather ignobly at the Quay—this for the
convenience of those citizens of Sydney who
desire to walk the decks and peer into the
secrets of the dark-grey visitors. In all
Sydney has now II defence ships rocking
oil her harbor waves. There s almost as
much navy blue and gold braid seen op>. the
streets, if not so many smiles full of dazzling
teeth, as when the American 1 leet was m
port.
And it’s known that Admiral Evans thinks
very well of our home-grown Navy, and
Britannia Rules the Waves!
The march through the streets on Monday
brought home again how sturdy and whole-
some and clean the Australian Jack Tar is—
quite the finest of his profession. Tne nr.es
of navy blue starting at the Quay, with
bands playing “Home, Sweet Home an
“Auld Lang Syne” stepped out bnskly,
bayonets flashing, swords erect. The blue
of the seaplane men glinted sapphire in a
sulky ray or two of sunshine. Up through
the city streets to Hyde Park they swung;
and here the Governor-General took the
salute in a setting of cocked-hats and lea:.-
brown khaki blazing with decorations After-
wards along College-street and down the wide
stretch of Macquarie-street the nations sea-
strength flowed. But, as there was no public
holiday, the pavements were but thnny
fringed with the glad legs of Sydney s wel-
coming girlhood.
Sydney spent the week-end shivering in
typical Dudley Cup weather. Rain m sheets,
driven on a pitiless wind, swept the city, and
nearly washed away the polo grounds at
Kensington. Yet over 2000 went out
to watch the play of Harden and In-
verell on Saturday. Rugs were flung over
fur coats, or were wrapped over the service-
able but not too warm raincoat, by women
who steadfastly braved the wind and the rain
all the afternoon. The people who stayed
perched in their cars chose the better part,
but the ardent leaned over the fence's or sat
on benches close up and, looking out oyer a
field all chopped up and flayed to Pieces,
exhorted the red of Harden or the blue ot
Inverell according to their inclination. Per-
versely enough, woman had decided to dis-
card the gaiter and woollen stocking. Silk
hose and strapped shoes without a rubber
were the order, even though the top of the
lady looked equal to an Antarctic blizzard.
Country women were, of course, present
by the hundred, and the G.-G.’s lady, witn
Ava and Ariel, was an interested looker on.
Sir Dudley brought Elaine after the football,
and with them came Commodore Swabey
(M.L.). Mrs. Ken Austin came musquashed
to the chin, and sensibly gaitered; Mrs. Jim
Gordon proved the smartness of stone greys;
Cecile Waley wore a fur lining to her fawn
top-coat; and this Letter was heartened by
the glimpse of its favorite yellows m the
leather coat and hat worn by Mrs. Wallace
of Leura. A tweed like an Enzed rug lent
its checks to the building of Mrs. W. H.
Mackay’s tailor-made. Valerie Moule and
Janet ‘ Winter-Irving were notable Mel-
bourne visitors. Grey was the choice of
Mrs. Din Garvan and Cecile Belbndge,
Shirley Dent wore her tweeds in the right
spirit/and the Gordon Cliirnsides, Mrs. Hugh
Munro and Mrs. James Ashton were among
the enthusiasts.
The first of the three big parties
with which the State Exes, will close their
last winter season in Sydney was held on
Friday. The Fleet was the predominating
note—navy and blue everywhere; polo
scarcely anywhere. Art and music were
solidly represented by such.establislied giants
as George Lambert and such beginning ones
as Trixie Tange. Of course, a few diamonds
and pearls had been invited, to make the
party glitter: Brig.-General George Mac-
arthur Onslow squired his wife, the
Kelso King lady came in black chiffons, and
Mrs. George Vivers arrived in buoyant black
tulles.
Lady de Chair stood beside her viking in
a pictorial frock of taffetas in the most deli-
cate sky-after-rain blue. The skirt was long
and spreading and splashed with diamente
raindrops. The neck of the bodice was cut
round, lower behind than before, and was
outlined with a fichu of blue tulle that was
knotted at the back. Elaine was a cascade
of vellum tulle frills.
Commander Hine, of Maoriland, brought
Mrs. Hine; and America’s Consul-General
Lawton and Mrs. Lawton, the Dean of Syd-
ney and his greenly-wrapped wife, Commo-
dore Swabey and Captain Wells (M.L.),
the Harry Budges, Bertie Kelly and Town-
clerk Layton were among those who sat out
a musical programme which lasted until 10.
Elise Steele’s violin sang with great charm
and power. Tenor McKinlay, from Maori-
land, painted passion into a night that was
sodden and cold.
There’s not a polo player in this State
who doesn’t know the lady in this Falk
photo. She is Mrs. Colin Venn, president
of the Cum-
berland branch
of the Country
Women’s As-
soc. and presi-
dent of the
outsize co m-
mittee which
is running the
Extra Chukka
dinner - dance.
This will fill
the Ambassa-
dors to over-
flowing on
Thursday
evening. Polo
players and
country visi-
tors have
booked in
phalanxes, and
the dance pro-
mises to be
even a greater
success than last year’s. Roast beef and
Yorkshire pudding arc to be the special
feature on the bill of fare; hot dogs at
midnight.
The world-weary lass in “This Year of
Grace” found no duplicate at the Golden
Helmet Ball: if Noel Coward wants to write
a revue that will conquer Australia he d
better put in some jolly, healthy girls like
those who danced at the Fire Queen s Ball
last week. This was the soaring of the
final rocket in the philanthropic fireworks
which have netted for city and country hos-
pitals close on £250,000. Of this amount
Mrs. A. B. Sutherland (St. Vincents
nominee) raised £15,707 and thereby won the
distinction of being Queen for a night.
Myrine Collins (Hospice for the Dying)
represented £15,090 in hard cash, and was
therefore chief maid of honor, and sat on
the right hand of royalty. On the left was
Mrs. Szarka, Lewisham’s candidate, whose
supporters showed their loyalty to the tune
of over twelve and a half thousand. Draped
about these on the dais were lesser duchesses,
representing in all 22 metropolitan and lo
country hospitals.
The grand moment was the entry of the
Queen and her court. The floor of the
Town Hall was a forest of dancers, feud-
denly, through the middle of the forest,
blazed an avenue of burnished helmets.
These were the head-pieces of the guard of
honor, every one a fireman, every one a
returned soldier. Down the gleaming aisle
came flower maidens lavishly scattering
petals The trumpets sounded, and in stepped
his Grace of Canterbury (District officer
Bcare). Just-beginning princesses and
pages and heralds advanced bravely, h our
Beefeaters in scarlet and gold walked directly
before the Queen, who glittered in cloth ot
silver shot with blue. An ivory velvet train
edged with ermine tails and blazoned with
a red and gold coronet, was carried by two
small sons, Sandy and Donald. So, Queen
and mother, she stepped to her reward.
Sir Dudley de Chair and son Graham had
a night out with the Queens, and while
father danced with her of the Crown and
Sceptre, Graham took the floor with feather-
weight Myrine Collins. How Josephine
Marks, who had stage-managed the pageant,
was specially presented to His Ex., and how
all the Civic Commissioners and their wives
bestowed approval and presence, and how
the Acting-Premier brought his lady, and how
the Fire Commissioners and their fireside
(or radiator) Queens took the floor is all
no doubt recorded in the Brigade’s annals;
but this Letter has room only to hint at the
splendor.
Of all Sydney’s fancy-dress affairs, the
Movie Ball is the real Mackay. Other flutters
wear an apologetic air: everybody seems
to be saying, “Of course, I know I look an
awful fool, but the wife made me,” or “I
did it, my dear, to save my best evening
frock —it’s always such a rabble at these
things.” But at the Movie Ball they wear
fancy costumes as though they meant it.
The Palais itself suggested Cleopatra re-
incarnated as Maisie Gay’s amorous old
flower-girl. There’s a sort of ample in-
souciance about the Palais —but an in-
souciance, mark you, that is always kept
within the bounds of respectability, as the
young man found who tried to display too
much jazz garter. This gentleman had gone
as a lady, but was fined the morning after
for not being a perfect one. And that
shows you what a careful eye the police keep
on these things. But they tell me that
“Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star” is prohibited
as a public recitation in California because
it is considered too suggestive of brandy. Of
the stars who flashed across the horizon the
other night, Dolores del Itio (May Simpson)
found special favor in the eyes of the judges.
The Governor and Lady de Chair arrived
at the tenth hour, with son Graham as
gent-help and that attractive young thing,
Betty Willsallen, as lady-in-waiting. Her
Ex. wore orange chiffons over silver, and
the Willsallen chick sprouted pale pink
plumage of an expensive smoothness. The
Victor Wilsons, Stuart Doyle and other
motion-picture heads received tlieir hjxcel-
lencies. Clarence Moss, secretary of the
Children’s Hospital at Cainperdown, was
there in a beatific smile, for it’s his in-
stitution that takes the night s profits.
The dance at the Rose Bay Golf Club out-
rivalled the Journalists’ Ball in numbers.
Neary 1000 dancers strove for foothold in
the reception-rooms, and the G.-G. and Lady
Stonehaven were the social fireworks. Mrs.
Colin Stephen, who was at the helm of the
arrangements, had to vacate her post on the
great night through an insistent appoint-
ment with the ’flu. However, there were
60 hostesses left to carry on Rose-trees
heavy with yellow blooms and yellow lanterns
a-sw T ing were features of the decorations,
and the wide verandah, with its clever
arrangement of lights and rose-bushes, seemed
washed in gold.
Another ball of the past week on the honor-
able-mention list was that of the 2nd Division
A.M.F. at the Wentworth. The G.-G. and
Lady Stonehaven were the guests of honor,
and the ball, complete with three little debs.,
was bound in military scarlet and gold.
Herewith a picture of Bethia Anderson,
daughter of the Brig.-General who is private
secretary to the State Governor. Bethia
inherits a talent for writing and an affection
for the arts in general from both her parents.
Mrs. Anderson is keenly interested in modern
art and literature and writes many thought-
ful articles on
both subjects.
Bethia is doing
her bit to re-
store the art
of fresco
painting. She
leads a band
of young en-
t h usiasts
known as the
Xurra murra
Wall Painters.
These girls
have painted
one room from
floor to ceil-
ing with pic-
tures of the
Harbor
Bridge; and
two of them,
Gwen and
Jean Ramsey,
are responsible
for a painted bedroom —all waves and
trees and flowers. This year’s venture is to
be a painted dining-room decorated with de-
signs based on the expedition of H.M.b.
Adelaide to the Solomons. Roy de Mestre
has been of great assistance to the amateurs.
You remember, of course, Pirandellos
play, “Six Characters in Search of an
Author.” Now here’s a perfectly good story
with more than six characters in search
of a title. Among the highly commended
entries in The Bulletin’s first novel com-
petition was an extraordinarily vivid Sydney-
New Guinea tale called “Disenchantment,
and just as Townshend was fitting some fine
drawings to G. M. Turnbull’s narrative, in
came a new novel from Europe with the
very title the New Guinea specialist had
chosen. So “Disenchantment” went over-
board, and the story set out in search of
a new title. And it must find one pretty
soon, because Mr. Turnbull will begin to
unfold his tale 2s soon as ever “The Quarter-
master” has left the stage. And that will
be a month from now —on July 31. .
There is one serial story in the distance
that surely won’t want a new title “The
Waggon of Birds.” It’s a story, the judges
say. unlike any other ever written in or
about Australia; and if the Australian
nature student never read a novel before, lie
(or she) ought to look for this one—it is
just what you’d expect it to be from its
title. Florence Irby, who lias lived all her
life among her bush treasures, is the author.
Pink chiffons starry with rhinestones
swirled around May Matchett, a pretty
Strathfield girl, when she made the necessary
vows within St. Stephen s on Saturday night,
thereby becoming Mrs. William E. Hopkins,
of Lindfield. Mrs. G. Sutherland and Meda
Lippman in hydrangea blue chiffons attended
the bride. Toasts at the Ambassadors.
The Norman Katers’ eldest daughter
Mary has declared in favor of Douglas, son
of the late Arthur Tooth.
Barbara Littlejohn, the just 21-year-old
daughter of the Albert Littlejohns, is one of
the lasses whose left hand blossomed with
diamonds last week in spite of the low price
of wool and the high cost of polo ponies. Her
young man on the land, William llartland
Cullen, a son of the ex-Chief Justice, canae
down for the sheep sales and the polo. Now
the party planned for Barbara’s coming of
age will do for an engagement celebration
as well.
Historic old St. John’s, in Parramatta, felt
a stirring around its heart the other day
when the descendants of two of its very
early friends asked its blessing. The bride,
Ruth Miller, is the daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. N. Miller, of Cootamundra, and a great-
great-granddaughter of that Samuel Mars-
den who made his cure of I arramatta
famous. The bridegroom, H. James Hassali,
is the son of the Frank Hassalls, of Redbiaes,
Ungarie, and the great-great-grandson of
Thomas Hassali, who, when curate of St.
John’s, married Miss Marsden. Last weeks
bride and ’groom fluttered over to the Wara-
tali Cafe, in Parramatta, for the congratu-
lations.
Dorothy Enid Gidley, of Arncliffe, became
Mrs. George S. Brearley, of Queenschfr
(Vic ) in frilled white tulle fashioned in
the amplitude of the eighteen-thirties. The
bodice featured a truelove’s knot in rhine-
stones and a Brussels lace veil over palest
pink tulle formed the cloud-like train. This
was followed by Dorothy Stephens and Edna
Cornwell in glowing yellow and pink chif-
fons. The knot was tied by Padre Micklem
within St. James’s. Later the bride’s mother
hostessed at the Ambassadors.
They call them the Yallers now because
two of their number arrived home with the
smallpox. At first the medical men thought
it was chicken-pox; and after everybody had
spread far and wide from the Aorangi, which
brought the Y.A.L. contingent home, the
authorities at the Coast Hospital said ‘ small-
pox.” Then passengers and crew had to be
rounded up for vaccination. The outbreak
punctured the welcome Sydney was prepared
to give the kids who, under the leadership
of J. J. Simon, have been the most success-
ful ambassadors Australia has ever sent to
the United States.
Naomi Waters and little Gwen Coombe
staged a clever show at the Maccabean Hall
last week to help the Journalists’ Ball. The
“Puppets’ Play” was an appetiser on the
varied bill; Gwen and Naomi danced very
well, the one a whirl of black and the other
in something that looked like a tattered grey
cloud topped by a clutter of falling leaves;
and Yeats’s “Maker of Dreams” and Milne s
“Man in the Bowler Hat” were other items.
Later one-half of the audience took itself to
the Red Mill, Darlinghurst’s latest dropping-
in place, wdiere this Letter’s youngest friend
got a thrill with the automatic toaster which,
on digesting some specified coin of the realm,
disgorges a neat slice.
Still another fresh from Europe tells of
a cafe where every table has its telephone,
and every table a telephone number. When
you see somebody you’d particularly like
to know at table 10, you dial the number
of table 10 and “give it a fly.” A perfect
gentleman, for instance, might murmur in
a fair one’s ear: “You are looking charm-
ing. Will you have coffee with me? I am
at table ” The lady can give the caller
a once-over, and then murmur “Delighted,
or “I am expecting my pugilist husband m
three minutes,” just as the survey strikes
her.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite went to
the Journalists’ Ball in a costume that was
all red and white squares. When the
announcer in the parade asked her what her
title was, she drawled: “Oh, I’m an audi-
ence in the Town Hall.” The announcer
is still blushing.
This Letter wants to add a line of sym-
pathy to the widow of its old chief. Before
her marriage (she was William Macleods
second wife) she was the brilliant writer
for a number of years of this Page, and her
name, Agnes Conor O’Brien, signed to many
a short story was certain of a wide audience.
From the first moment of her husband’s ill-
ness, last November, till his death, this
devoted wife and chum was never absent
from her sick husband, save for one brief
enforced four-days’ rest.


ffeE
\
ste
'au.-—•**»
!u**
Pi
wyi'»i:* «w
<fe*: ;*?.
382
Mi
S
5 £3
&
liWi
1
•vint
I
•ifi
IV.r
SHffiSS
WRPfIKh
BIS
r-r,
if?
O.VA'
g^lrir^^-WW^Jtvt-vv*
3ssWfc
fetS
Mi
‘itfT
si
?:*PKI
Bg
rtTTi
%
X
f*• Tm£ss r Ti r!.»it y &*£%. *2rt y
; or
..n^.;s
•»:*;• jvi;:?. r.*tfa?
f t-vjfXn?!*.-:* v;
«
THE BIGGEST WAGGON
and the Largest Fleet of Waggons ...
are employed to meet the ever-grow-
ing demand for SHELL Motor Spirit.
You see these imposing “Scarlet
Runners ” every day .... There are
400 of them constantly traversing the
highways of Australia, maintaining
supplies of SHELL throughout
the Commonwealth.
The Self-contained Resources of the SHELL Organisation,
world-wide in their scope—Oilfields, Refineries, Transport,
Storage and Expert Scientific knowledge are unequalled*
They secure for you that unbroken quality and unique service
which has made SHELL the standby of the transport world.
k
w
sri»
Qo where you will, Shell Service awaits you.
$BO5


Tormenting
ECZEMA
A Newcastle Man’s Rescue
After Hospital Failed.
Mr. Thomas D. Kyle of Belmont
Road, Charlestown, nr. Newcastle,
says:—‘‘For 30 years I suffered from
an acute form of eczema. Nasty
patches of irritating disease broke out
on my left leg. I spent a small for-
tune on ointments and medicines and
was in hospital three months. But,
until I used Zam-Buk nothing could
check the eczema.
“I washed the limb with Zam-Buk
Medicinal Soap and then applied the
Zam-Buk balm. This continued
treatment soon removed the itching
irritation and drew out all trace of
impurity. Zam-Buk covered the
affected parts wilh new healthy skin. ’ ’
All chemists sell Zam-Buk at 1/6 & 3/6box.
Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap 1/- a tablet.
Epicurean taste finds perfect
gratification in these famous
Havana Cigars. See full name
on every band.
“la corona
HALF-a- C O FIONA
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
n
DORIS BLUNDELL
Her mother writes :
“ I have used Rexona
Soap on my three child-
ren since birth and find
it keeps the skin and
hair in beautiful con-
dition.”
Shampoo with Rexona Soap
What a difference there is in the heads of hair
you see every day—some are wonderfully at-
tractive and becoming, while others are —just
ordinary.
Try Shampooing with Rexona Soap —you will
be surprised how lovely your hair .will become,
how it will reflect all the tiny dancing lights
that give life and beauty to the hair.
You will find that in less than ten minutes you
have doubled the beauty and attractiveness of
your hair by a single shampoo with Rexona
Soap.
Price 1/- per tablet.
*
KV
11
l
1
REXONA
SOAP
for Health and Beaulv
J RS9R
THE ARTISTIC “APEX” STOCKWHIP
ŵ
NO OTHER COUNTRY CAN
PRODUCE SUCH A BEAUTIFUL
AND YET SERVICEABLE WHIP
AS THIS AUSTRALIAN
PRODUCTION,
THE “APEX” WHIP
MADE OF THE FINEST KANGAROO LEATHER,
PLAITED IN TWO COLORS, WITH A PLEASING
SWASTIKA PATTERN. THE THONG IS BFT. LONG
AND PLAITED TO MATCH THE HANDLE.
Price 78/6
Post free for cash. For
2/6 extra up to four initials
can be plaited into handle.
“K’burra” Stockwhips
These are not fancy plaited, as the “Apex,
and are kangaroo right through with inside
plaited belly.
THONG: 12-plait, Bft., 23/6; 16-plait, Bft., 27/6.
HANDLE: 16-plait, 17/-; 24-plait, 19/-. Posted for Cash.
WAITHER 8 STEVENSON LTD,
SADDLERS,
395 George St., Sydney.
(jaintboroutjh S/lctpi
As beauty should
go beautifully—
<t£o Beauty should be
(SC9served in beauty. It is
unthinkable that Milady s
guests should take tea in cups
less than perfect in elegance
of form and substance. The
nameof Shelley (hidden under
every piece) promises no less.
English Bone China, fashion-
ed by hereditary craftsmen in
Shelley’s service, can yield
no more —and this is the envy
of potters the world over!
p| Ask to see the latest
M SHELLEY
lit Tea Sets - Nursery Ware
111 Coffee Sets- iy Lucie Attweu
111 Morning Sets gHilda Cowham
ill Dainty White DomksticWare
|p| • China • Jeu.y Moulds
WAIT & TO
TtV.MiATH e co.tr®
7&M V.
by using a
SAFETY RAZOR BLADE
Made of a special steel with extra keen edges
that last and give more shaves per blade.
For all Gillette and Auto-Strop holders.
Agent for Australia: H. E. UTTLEY,
Margaret House, 282 George Street, Sydney.
Manufactured by Kirby, Beard & Co., Ltd.,
Needle and Pin Manufacturers,
Ravenhurst Works,
Birmingham,
England.
Use q BEARD to shove a 6earo/
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
New Scalp I
Treatment!
Grows
Hair
Stops
Dandruff
Prolongs Youthful Smartness; Imparts that
Well-bred, Well-Groomed Look!
Vi-Glo, the amazing new
scalp treatment, is the best
way to grow hair, banish
dandruff and overcome pre-
mature greyness ever devised.
Vi-Glo keeps the hair youth-
ful and healthy. If your
hair is falling out, splitting,
or is dull and lifeless —
restore it to perfect con-
dition by using Vi-Glo. Price
3/- at all Chemists, com-
plete with special free
shampoo; or by post, 3/4,
from Vi-Glorient Co., Kembla
Building, Sydney.
ẁ
For Sale. _
T ISTER-BRIJSTON 6-h.p. Electric Plant,
with 30 Colls, for sale, owing to installa-
tion of State Electricity Scheme.
Has run for some years without a failure.
Engine and Dynamo in perfect order.
Prepared accept lowest price.
Can be seen at work, “Drusilla,” Macedon.
Inquiries: GRIMWADE, Yarra House,
South Yarra.
Missing Friends.
A NY person claiming to be or having any
knowledge of the next of kin of JOHN
HASSETT, who was a General Dealer,
living in Geelong in 1889, and who it is
believed left a son named Michael Matthew
Hassett, are requested to communicate with
the undersigned.
DOYLE & KERR,
Solicitors,
“The Exchange,” Market Square,


m
\r*L.
sr
V*.
Ml
SM
31
ft
wer
L \
fc?
~-U
m
kt
W
mitii
&
VTi
l i*4
3K
JKKDIHCTS
or
V
•3
CEYLON/
BY Orient Line Mail Steamer
a first saloon return passage
to Ceylon costs only sixty-five
pounds and the days at sea are
an enjoyable part of a delight-
ful holiday. In Ceylon itself,
prices are reasonable and every
facility is offered for sport, for
tours to Nuwara Eliya, Kandy
and the ancient buried cities,
for close study of the quaint
and primitive ways of the
natives. This island has that
peculiar charm of the East
which never fails in its appeal
to Australians.
ORIENT
LINE
w
LEIPZIG TRADE FAIR (Twice Yearly), GERMANY
Great International-Leipzig Industries Fair, AUTUMN, 1929.
Samples Fair and Engineering Fair and Building Fair.... August 25 to 31
Textile Fair August 25 to 28
Shoe and Leather Fair August 25 to 28
Subsequently another big Leipzig International Industries Fair will be held
in Spring, 1930, beginning on March 2, 1930. Letters of introduction and all
particulars gladly given.
LARS G. BRUNDAHL,
’Phones: 84006, MW2201. 6 DALLEY STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
U’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT
SONG.
ROYAL: THE FLYING SQUAD.
CRITERION: THE PERFECT ALIBI.
(Commencing Saturday.)
PALACE: DRACULA.
OICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
#, • HIS MAJESTY’S:
>rHE FIVE-O’CLOCK GIRL.
ROYAL:
SIR HARRY LAUDER.
ING 'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE WRECKER.
U OYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
“ MELBOURNE.
PATSY RUTH MILLER in
MARRIAGE BY CONTRACT.
ALSO
OUTLAWED.
With TOM MIX and SALLY BLANE.
Missing Friends.
RE EDWIN CLARKE, Deceased.—Will
any person knowing the whereabouts
of HARRIETT CLARKE, formerly of Oat-
lands in Tasmania, half-sister of Edwin
Clarke (also known as Edwin Thomas Scallan
and Edwin Scallan Powell), please com-
municate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Ilobart.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Public Notice.
I_J AND-PAINTED Shawls, Scarves,
Kimonos, etc. Write or call MADAM
GREY, 81 Avenue Road, Mosman.
Legal Notice.
pREDERICK WILLIAM PREECE Tate
A of Adelaide in the State of South Aus-
tralia Bookseller Deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given that the Deputy
Master of the Supreme Court of South Aus-
tralia has pursuant to the Trustee Act
1893 directed that all creditors and other
persons having claims against the estate of
the deceased who died on the 15th day of
December 192 S and probate of whose will
was granted to Elder’s Trustee and Executor
Company Limited of Currie Street Adelaide
and Gilbert Walter Graham Ponder of Adel-
aide are to send full particulars in writing
of their claims to the said Company on or
before the Ist day of November 1929 other-
wise they will be excluded from the distribu-
tion of the estate.
DATED this 20th day of June, 1929.
MAGAREY FINLAYSON MAYO AND
ASTLEY,
16 Pirie Street, Adelaide,
Solicitors for the said Executors.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without "it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 George Street, Sydney.
The Little Sisters
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The Lyceum Club thrilled to its very
marrow at entertaining Lady Stonehaven.
Mrs. Charles Todd, as president, received
the vice-regal guest; Lady Stonehaven
was accompanied by Miss M. Gillette. The
club was beautifully decorated with bright
autumnal foliage. Morning tea was en-
joyed and members were all introduced to
the guest of honor.
Tattersall’s Club meeting at Morphett-
ville saw a good attendance in spite of the
weather, which was wild and stormy. Acting-
chairman J. Carlyle Marshall and his wife
entertained at luncheon and tea. Mrs. Mar-
shall wore a brown tailored coat, trimmed
with skunk, and an art-red felt hat. The
Governor was there; and blue noses and fur
coats were outstanding features.
There was a generous response to the
appeal of the Hospitality Committee of the
Victoria League for money, books and news-
papers to circulate among out-back settlers.
Miss Murray and Mrs. Tom Barr Smith re-
ceived the guests upstairs, where there was
music in the lecture-room and afternoon-
tea in the Society of Arts room opposite.
Mayoress Bonython and Mrs. Kenneth Milne
supervised, assisted by a corps of girls. Mrs.
Francis J. Fisher spoke briefly about the
demand there was for literature to distribute.
A pleasant surprise came when the cheques
handed in were found to total £156.
Ada, second daughter of Mayor Bonython
—she is now in England—recently became
engaged to Denis Heath, of Birmingham. The
popular girl was a deb. at the Mayoral Ball
given in honor of the Duke and Duchess of
York when they visited Adelaide.
Died recently, Vincent de Paul Gillen,
lawyer, sportsman and son of a former Crown
Lands Minister of this State. His health had
broken down lately, but he still wrote bright
Press articles on racing; the appropriate
and, if possible, witty naming of racehorses
was his special hobby.
N. G. Bell, retiring Railways Commis-
sioner of the Commonwealth, got an unusual
sort of memorial in a tablet at the station
in Port Augusta, the great junction where the
East-West branches away westerly from the
South Aus. lines, and where also the lonely
starts to feel its way northward to an ulti-
mate destination of Darwin. Paterson,
Federal Minister of Transpoi’t, did the unveil-
ing and said nice things about Bell’s railway
work, for Queensland first and the Common-
wealth later.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Mrs. Wilford Mitchell had four debs, on
the slips until His Ex. appeared at the
Castledare Ball, when they were duly
launched. Miss P. Kinnane set sail in flared
ivory satin with butterfly bow; N. Kinnane
in white tulle frills, Beth Hatch in petalled
cream georgette and M. Dunphy in ivory lace.
Scarlet hibiscus and wattle alternated on
the supper tables, with shaded roses for the
officials. Mrs. Mitchell presided in soft black
lace, daughter Maude assisting in atmosphere
blue aglow with crystals. White-haired Mrs.
McCarthy took the floor with black lace over
blue satin, jet ornaments and black bow at
back. Elsie Paxton chose midnight blue
beaded georgette, and Beryl Seward showed
touches of gold on her black silk spotted net.
Of all her numerous activities, social and
artistic, Mrs. R. T. Robinson takes the keen-
est interest in
the Girl Guide
movement.
Soon after her
initiation into
the ranks two
and a half
years ago she
was appointed
District Com-
missioner for
Mt. L a w ley,
and has since
been promoted
to the position
of Divisional
C o mmissioner
for the metro-
politan area.
Recently she
lent her beau-
tiful home,
Killowen, for a
camp week, at-
tended by some
60 Guides. Bardwell Clarke made the por-
trait.
A shower of synthetic snowballs caused a
diversion among the dancers at the reunion of
Christ Church Old Boys and their comforters.
The Karrakatta Club was roseate with pink
lights. Mrs. Jim Battye, wife of the com-
mittee chairman, was clad in parchment lace
tiered with sunset taffetas; Mrs. Geoff Lynn’s
duckling yellow was flared and beaded in tur-
qouise; Lena Woodhouse latticed her pink
confection with silver, and Guida Weir
basqued her sage-green taffetas. Jean Had-
ley’s lissom lines were swathed in pome-
granate georgettes.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The O’Grady opened Parliament with as
much pomp and circumstance as that cere-
mony requires nowadays, motoring from
Government House with an escort of mounted
troops. After the official ceremony, a tea
was given by Speaker Evans and his lady,
who received a big crowd of guests in the
dining-room and on the Terrace at Parlia-
ment House. The hostess was all in black.
Most of -the women were swathed in furs
up to the eyes, as the cold was intense.
Margaret O’Grady . wore a heavy fur coat,
and a small hat in two shades of brown
velour. Premier McPhee and his better half,
the Cox Taylors, Bishop Hay and Mrs. Hay
and a big assemblage of Parliamentarians
and their womenfolk, as well as many private
citizens, swelled the throng.
One has to be a bookie or a racing enthu-
siast to enjoy a meeting in Tassy in the
very depth of winter! However, a very fair
crowd seemed to get some fun out of the
Hobart T. C.’s day at Elwick, when Mt.
Wellington looked like an iced cake and the
sun sneaked behind grey clouds all day.
All the women called upon their furs and
tweeds and gaiters to defend them from blue
noses and the unbecoming effects of nippy
winds, and succeeded admirably. Mrs Sam
Cox (Adelaide) greeted many old friends.
Iris Shone, Stone House, Risdon, and
Marcus Gibson, son of the Clyde Gibsons,
Oatlands, were tied up for better or worse
at the Cathedral. The bride’s dress, with
the Paris hallmark of style and cut about it
was made with a close-fitting bodice, of cloth
of silver over a tiered skirt of white tulle,
with floating peacock back. The tulle veil
was caught closely to the head with smal
orange blossoms, with little knots or orange
buds and pink rosebuds on each ear. The
'’maids were her sisters Stella and Joyce
in pink taffeta frocks with. long, tightly-
fitting bodices and frilled skirts. Hats of
pink felt and silver embroidery topped the
frocks, and bouquets of pipk roses, sweet-
peas and heath were carried.
Mrs. Atcheson, J.P. (Melbourne), has paid
us a visit, and has been gingering up the
Women’s National League, etc. She stayed
with the Spencer Brownells.
This is Molly Davern, who, besides .wield-
ing an active journalistic pert—she is the
social writer
of the Tas-
manian Mail
—h a s lately
proved herself
possessed o f
other talents.
At the Reper-
tory Society's
performance of
“Mary Stuart”
her portrayal
of the name-
part was ex-
t r a ordinarily
good. She had
evidently made
a close study
of the charac-
ter of Mary
with its con
tradictions and
inconsistencies,
and managed
to convey that
foreboding of tragedy which runs like an
undercurrent through the play.
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The Governor and Lady Goodwin gave
two garden parties last week in bright sun-
shine, that on the second day being attended
by officers of the Maoriland unit of the
Navy. On the first day her Ex. wore a
draped frock of rose satin marella with a
deep tucked girdle, a fitch fur stole and
a broad-brimmed rose straw hat swathed
in amber velvet ; and she carried a bunch
of Toowoomba violets. Miss H. Power, Mel-
bourne, who is staying at Government House,
was in black plisse crepe maroqain with a
figured jumper, worn with brown furs and
a black petal hat. Dr. Hardie’s lady was in
cornflower blue with black fox furs and
black hat. Mrs. W. H. Barnes wore blue
ring velvet; Mrs. William Lennon, black
satin with black furs; Mrs. W. B. Jour-
neaux, old gold with toque en suite ; Mrs.
A. H. Wliittingham, flame red with fur
collar and red hat; Mrs. Ray Stanley, nut
brown. Poinsettia blazed about the grounds,
and tea was served in a large marquee on
the lower lawn.
On the second day Lady Goodwin wore
Lido blue wool repp, which matched her
eyes, a full-length satin marocain coat
trimmed with grey Arctic fox and a blue
baku hat. Mrs. Power was in black
marocain with a collar of ash rose and a
black hat; Mrs. Cadell Garrick was in nigger
brown satin coat, with collar and cuffs of
skunk worn over a biscuit-tone lace and
mariette gown, with fawn felt hat. Mrs.
de Witt Batty wore navy with Arctic fox
furs; Mrs. Lorenzo wore ash rose mariette;
Mrs. J. J. St-able, black ring velvet with
grey fox fur collar and cuffs; Mrs. P. J.
Symes, black satin with touches of almond
green; Mrs. Gilbert Wilson, black mariette
with black fox collar; Mrs. M. Forrest,
ivory silk jersey with brown fur.coat and
pale pink felt hat.
The United Service Club had the gold braid
of the Fernland cruisers to lunch. In the
morning officers and men, 300 strong, marched
through Queen-street and round by Albert-
square, where in front of the new Town Hall
Sir John Goodwin took the salute from a
platform, also inhabited by Premier Moore,
the Mayor, Commodore Swabey and others.
The warships were thrown open for a visit
of school children, and crowds of adults also
went aboard. The Governor gave a dinner
party, at which the principal officers were
guests, also the Donald Camerons, the
Duckett Whites, the E. T. Bells, the Max
Ways (from Melbourne), Mrs. Power, Mrs.
Leonard Turner, Mrs. Wliittingham, Mrs.
E. T. Nesbit, Jean Darvall and Dorothy
Hawthorn.
In the School of Arts, Wynnum South,
there was a Cinderella dance for the funds
of the Carmelites. Gay balloons, baskets of
peach bloom and trails of greenery decorated,
and the Sisters of Mercy looked after the
commissariat.
The Nellie Bramley League arranged a
kitchen gift afternoon at the Theatre Royal,
where an excellent musical programme was
given. Miss Bramley has bought a house
wdiere the river lips the green banks at New
Farm. She is having the house remodelled,
and will soon move in.


THIS IS THE £500 FIRST-PRIZE NOVEL "A HOUSE IS BUILT," BY FLORA ELDERSHAW AND MARJORIE BARNARD,
ABRIDGED BY "THE BULLETIN" FOR SERIAL PUBLICATION.
'THERE'S NO SPORT
Hi
LIKE SNOVW> SPORT
• **
AT
7
6H
CALL, WRITE .
soWIRE X,
con roumsr bureau
Qaeerts t&lk, Uetbayrne
A WONDERFUL BODY BUILDER
ŵ
MY ADVICE
TO YOU 1
AS
TONIC WINE
RELIEVES
EXHAUSTION
AB
AB
TRADE MARK
REGISTERED
BUILDS UP
THE SYSTEM
AFTER ILLNESS.
ULmX
Obtainable everywhere throughout Australia—
CHEMISTS, LICENSED GROCERS, HOTELS, etc.
Suppliers for N.S.W. and Q’land: McLaughlin & Co., Ltd., Corner Sussex and Hay Streets, Sydney.
„ „ West Australia Distillers Agency, Ltd., Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
J Irvine & McEachern, Brisbane Street, Launceston.
» ” -*- asrnal ia i Ferguson & Co., Murray Street, Hobart.
Sole Proprietors: ARNOLD BROS., A.B. Building, 527-529 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
MAN NEWS
“WILD WEST”
A Qreat Big Wide Leaf Hat
to Wear between Sunrise
and Sunset.
Pure Fur Felt; leaf
314 ins. wide will
not sag ; High Crown,
will stand all weathers.
OA/
J\J j
Mail to Desk “5.8.” State Size.
PIKE BROTHERS
LTD.
In Sween Street, Brisbane.
THE QUARTERMASTER.
Norman Lindsa/.
Synopsis: Quartermaster James
Hyde leaves the service in 1889 and
buys a combined store and dwelling
in Windmill-street, Sydney, near the
harbor. His son, William, resents the
whaling skipper Captain ■Hildebrand
being, treated as a family guest and
meeting his sisters, Fanny and Maud,
on terms of friendship. Fanny is
secretly deeply attracted to Hildebrand,
and is seriously shocked when, offering
to elope with him, she is mocked
and rejected. Soon after Maud roman-
tically marries Humphrey Gillum, and
in the following years rears him
a large family. William had thought
the raw state of the young city
and the shopkeeping too degrading
for him to bring his fiancee, Adela, to
live there. She, however, voyages out
from England, and, in the new home in
City-road is, by 18J/.7, the mother of
two boys, James and Lionel. The
Quartermaster, William and Fanny
(who is virtually feminine head of the
City-road house) appropriate James
but rather ignore the younger boy, and
Adela secretly prays that she may be
allowed to have Lionel as her own.
Walter Moore, a widower, who has
established a foundry and thriven,
begins circumspectly to woo Fanny,
but she eventually rejects his advances.
Business has reached, a fairly low ebb
when Edward Hargreaves discovers
gold in the Bathurst district. The
Quartermaster, now 6.j. sets out for
the fields, leaving William in charge of
the store and household.
CHAPTER XIII.
Adventurers.
THE problem at the store was not easy.
George would have to go with one
waggon and another man hired to go
with the second. Benjamin could be trusted
to keep the mill working, if any man could.
But there was no one in the office. It was
impossible for William to attend to the
clerical work as well, and it seemed equally
impossible to secure some trustworthy man.
Two nights before the Quartermaster was
to leave, Fanny said to him as they rose
from dinner: “Papa, I want to talk to you.
Can you spare a few moments now?”
“My dear, I’ve a ton of work waiting.”
“I know, papa, it’s a shame to trouble
you when you’re busy, but I shan’t have
another chance.”
“What is it, Fan? You’re not in any
trouble again, are you?”
Fanny winced at that “again” but came
to the point briskly.
“Papa, I asked you once before to find
a place for me in the store. You wouldn’t
then, but things have changed now. You
can’t get people to work for you. Domestic
accounts are trifles, I know; but did
you ever find a mistake in mine? You
can’t say I ought to look after the house-
hold. It’s Adela’s and has no need of
me. Papa, you’re a good business man.
Is it good business to be short of labor
on one side and have idle hands on the
other?”
Fanny paused and looked at her father.
It was perhaps the longest speech she had
made for years. It was the fruit of many
hours and nights of thought. It was her
last bid for release. She had little hope
of success, for she knew the strength of
her father’s prejudices, but it had seemed to
be a last chance. What she did not know
was that few men’s prejudices can stand out
for ever against real need.
The Quartermaster was genuinely relieved.
“You’re a good girl, Fan, to think of it.
Come down to-morrow and we’ll introduce
you to the books. It’ll be a real relief to
have you there. God bless my soul, but
women get queerer eveiy day!”
William did not take it quite so easily,
but as time went on Fanny slipped more
and more securely into the work of the
firm.
Early on the morning of Saturday, June
7, the Quartermaster set out for Bathurst.
The whole family walked from the Labur-
nums to where the City-road ran into the
Parramatta-road to see him ride away to
the west. His last word as he mounted was
for James.
A lump rose in Adela’s throat. It seemed
terrifying to her and somehow pathetic,
that he should be going forth alone on a
quest that was surely for the young and
strong. His own children seldom saw any-
thing but their father’s strength. Adela
often surprised herself in an unaccountable
pity and tenderness for him. Sometimes, as
she watched him talking or romping boister-
ously with James, she would feel it well
up within her, and she could realise some-
thing of what the boy meant to him, an
heir to the heritage he was building. Since
Lionel’s birth Adela had gained a new in-
sight, a new sympathy. Sometimes, too, she
wondered, though she repelled it as dis-
loyalty, if the Quartermaster were dis-
appointed ever so slightly in his son that
he should set such store upon his grandson.
Had his enthusiasms beat as vainly against
William’s imperviousness as Adela’s own
early aspirations had done? Something of
all this was in her mind as, with Lionel
clinging to her skirts, she watched the
Quartermaster’s upright figure, sitting awk-
wardly to his horse, recede into the distance.
Fanny watched him too, but her thoughts
were very different. She envied him pas-
sionately his chance of adventure, of life;
she despised William more vehemently than
he really deserved for his refusal to go, but
above all she exulted that all this had
brought her her chance. She glorified the
office routine into a magnificent adventure.
She called James and they walked slowly
back to the house.
Some time had to pass before they could
hope to get definite news from the Quarter-
master. Only a few days had elapsed when
news came of another character. The rush
of gold-seekers to the west continued, but
it met an almost equal stream of dis-
appointed diggers returning to the city. In
the first flush of enthusiasm many had gone
to Summer Hill Creek ill-prepared for even
a fortnight’s work. They had imagined that
the gold was there, on the surface, simply
waiting to be shovelled into their bags.
When they arrived, hundreds, thousands
were already at work, digging, washing their
dirt in the tiny stream, eagerly seizing upon
the minute grains. The day of the nugget
had not yet come. Disappointed, many
had lounged away a week or two on the
fields and then returned to spread the report
that the gold to be found was not worth the
work of digging. Many of these men, angry
and disillusioned, had met Mr. Hargreaves
as he returned to the fields, and he had
narrowly escaped being lynched.
William found it difficult to refrain from
the ignoble triumph of one who has been
justified in his caution. He would have
stopped the despatch of the waggons had
not the first already set out only, a day
later than the Quartermaster. Fanny was
frankly terrified; she had not yet established
herself, and her emancipation might be
again withheld.
The whole city was disorganised with
alternate hope and disappointment. Con-
flicting rumors of fabulous wealth and of
ruined hopes came hand in hand, and the
workers at Windmill-street and the house-
hold at City-road reacted to them accord-
ing to the temperament of each.
At last, after what seemed an eternity of
suspense but was in reality thirteen days,
news came of the Quartermaster.
As Fanny sat in the office at Windmill-
street, checking and rechecking bills for
merchandise which had just arrived from
England and listening to the disconsolate
sound of drizzling rain dripping down the
walls, she looked up to find the familiar
figure of Jem before her. So natural did
his presence seem that it was some moments
before she realised that she had last seen
Jem on the evening before his abrupt
departure for Ophir.
“Why, Jem,” she cried; then saw the
letter he was holding out to her, addressed
in her father’s sprawling hand.
They read the letter eagerly. The Quarter-
master had made an unwonted effort with
his pen.
The Diggings, June 16th.
Dear William and Girls, —I hope this finds
you all well. 1 am in good trim, though
fear the rheumatics will have a go at me
before long. The ground is very wet.. Got
here on Thursday — a, slow trip pip, but.it’s
a steep pull over the Mountains, though
the road is pretty good. Waggons got to
Bathurst Saturday night, a good trip, and
we got some of the stuff out here by
Monday. I’ve got my store fixed up ship-
shape; it’s made of bark and canvas and
it’s near Yorkey’s Corner, just where the
first pick was struck. No shortage of labor.
Could get more than I want just for their
rations. All our first lot of stuff went in
two hours at tip-top prices, and, diggers are
waiting with open mouths for more. George
and his mate are bringing it out as fast
as they can. We struck just the right stuff.
1 sold the bacon at 3s. the lb. and flour
at Is. Seems a wicked price. Canvas and
blankets all gone, as it’s wet all the time
and bitter cold. Most of these poor fools
had nothing to shelter with. My one mis-
take was the gun. Everybody brought them ,
but ive’re all a bit ashamed of them now,
as everything is quite peaceable and, quiet.
Keep the supplies going, William. I’ll put
a list in this of what I want. I’m going on
to the Turon as soon as 1 get this going.
I’ve my eye on a good man to take charge
here. There’s a Government notice up here-
about the Turon, but some miners are shy
of going, remembering the starvation here.
1 want ’em to feel that no matter where
they go, Hyde’s stores’ll follow them.
Jem is taking this, you’ll be surprised to
see. Poor lad! he was nearly starving when
I met him trying to get back. Lots of them
have had enough of gold digging already,
but there’s plenty of gold here, for those who
come prepared. I’ve got nearly 2500 z. gold
already, and it’s worth £3 4s- 6d. the oz.
Well no more news now, William. Give
the little chaps a hug from their grandpapa.
—Love to the girls from your affec. father,
James Hyde.
The Quartermaster was not a ready
writer, but he had been wholly absorbed in
the drama of life in those early days of
gold. Every moment of his journey had
been full of interest. His night at the little
inn, his ascent of Mount York and his first
view of the magnificent Bathurst Plains
from Mount York were all stages in the
glorious adventure. As he first rode into
Bathurst he saw crowds of destitute men
tramping into the town; even his optimism
might have been checked, had not an even
greater number been pouring out of the
town towards Ophir. He rode out to Ophir;
in two hours he had counted 70 men re-
turning on foot, and had received a genuine


Maud and her family bore down upon the store:
thrill on encountering a party of horsemen
all armed and carrying gold.
The Quartermaster was now right in the
Gold Country. It was very rough going,
as the .country seemed to consist of masses
of rock-crested hills, thrown together in
complete confusion, cut up by narrow preci-
pitous gullies through which small creeks
twisted down to join the Summer Hill.
From the top of a high bluff, overlooking
the Summer Hill, the Quartermaster had
his first glimpse of the gold diggings. The
point immediately below him was occupied
by upwards of a dozen different parties
digging into- the hill. Some were digging
with picks and forks, others carrying earth
in every conceivable kind of container —
buckets, dishes, barrows, shovels; others
again were rocking the cradles or shaking
tin pans in the stream, washing away the
dirt from the golden grains. The morning
air, crisp and clean after the rain, was
filled wdth noises—the washing of the water
in the iron boxes of the cradles, the trund-
ling of barrows, the clink of the picks, the
sounds of men’s voices. Opposite, the banks
were dotted with tents and shelters of
bark or branches built against the box-'
or gum-trees.
The Quartermaster had not yet found his
way back to the main road from Bathurst.
He pushed on and found it where it inter-
sected the creek a mile further up. The
spot was congested with every form of
traffic. The Quartermaster with difficulty
got through and pushed up the bed of the
creek. He presented himself to the Assist-
ant Commissioner, who welcomed him
warmly when he learned that his inten-
tion was to organise a system of supplies,
and especially that the first waggons were
due to arrive almost at once. By the time
Jem and his four' assistants had arrived,
the site for his tent and store was fixed.
In the very heart of the busy scene, under
some great swamp oaks near the water’s
edge, two tents were pitched, and a rough
shed built of logs and bark, and made as
secure as possible against rain and other
intruders. When George arrived from
Bathurst with the first instalment of pro-
visions everything was ready, and the
Quartermaster hung out his crude sign,
“Hyde’s Stores,” with a satisfied heart.
During the afternoon the Quartermaster
pushed on. He attempted to take a short
cut through the open box forest, and lost
his way as evening approached. It had
been raining all day and for many days, and
the ground was sodden; it came on now in
heavy driving gusts, against which canvas
could offer little protection. The Quarter-
master, thinking ruefully of his rheumatism,
rode on slowly through the deepening dusk,
hallooing and calling, but the sound seemed
to fall track from the heavy sheets of rain.
At last a light twinkled in the distance,
and with relief he and his weary horse
stumbled up to a tiny shepherd’s hut,
strongly made of slabs and plastered with
mud. A man came to the door and bade
him welcome. The horses were fed and
tethered in a sheltered place, and soon the
Quartermaster was drying his-soaked clothes
and warming his numbed limbs before a
blazing fire.
There were two men there, one old
with a patriarchal beard and eyes of a
surprising blue, the other a middle-aged
man with a weary haggard face and a
haunted expression. They made the
Quartermaster very welcome and put their
one bare room at his disposal. It was a
meagre place, but its dryness and warmth
were very comforting.
The floor was hard earth, the walls were
bare slabs; a roughly-hewn table, two stools,
a rude shelf running along one side, on
which stood a few simple cooking utensils,
plates and mugs, in one corner a folded pile
of coarse blankets, constituted the furnish-
ings. On the wall over the fire was a
crudely-colored picture of the coronation
of Queen Victoria and below it a rough
drawing, old and dirty, of a little girl.
Light was supplied by the leaping flames
of the fire and a wick burning in a tin of
oil on the table.
They were shepherds, the old man ex-
plained, on Mr. Edgar’s station and had
been for many years. He had first come
to the district nearly nineteen years ago.
“There were flocks of kangaroos here
then. The cattle drove them away. David
wasn’t with me then, sir. It’s only ten
years since he came.”
“Ten years,” repeated David slowly—
“ten years since I came.”
The Quartermaster asked them hastily
if they intended to join the gold-diggers.
“Later, perhaps, sir,” said the old man—
his name, he said, was Swedish Ole —“but
not yet. We are bound to our work, you
see.”
“It’s splendid,” said the Quartermaster
heartily, “but I don’t know how you resist
the gold, lying at your very doorstep, so
to speak.”
“We’ve known for years it was there.
We’ve got a little, year by year,
whenever we had time. It’s easy enough
to find. “Look”—Swedish Ole went
to the shelf and taking down an old,
discolored tin, opened it and showed it to
the Quartermaster. A little pile of golden
grains, between thirty and forty ounces, the
Quartermaster judged, lay there. It excited
him, it was the first raw gold he had handled.
As he fingered the tiny glittering grains he
marvelled afresh at the sobriety of these
men’s views.
“Did you never speak of your find?” he
asked.
“No. You see, Dave and I like the quiet.'
That’ll be gone now.”
The rain had ceased and the watery moon
was struggling through the clouds. There
was no sound but the crackling of wood
and the drip, drip of water from the trees
outside.
* * * *
When the Quartermaster had left Sydney
in the midwinter of the year 1851 no one,
not even himself, had dreamed that he
would not be home again, except for a
few brief visits, for rather more than six
years. But the early rush to the gold-
diggings which had inspired his first venture
in these fields was only a foretaste of what
was to come. In July, shortly after he
(Continued on next page.)


PSSlmlfiS
Dog food
Supreme
ẁ
A perfectly balanced meat ration; keeps
all breeds of dogs in perfect condition.
Composed of clean, wholesome red meat,
oatmeal, fresh onions and cod liver
oil in exactly the right proportions.
FREE Sample Tin sent on request
without charge.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB
P. O. Box 1821, Melbourne
Ken-T-Ration
VICHY
n
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
"Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
had established his store at Ophir and was
very busy organising another at the Turon,
a field even richer, news came which electri-
fied not Australia alone but the whole
world. An aboriginal shepherd had acci-
dentally found a nugget of solid gold on
the station occupied by Dr. Kerr, near
Bathurst, protruding almost naked from
the grass. It weighed 108Jlb. The Quarter-
master had seen it himself.
“Kerr’s Hundredweight” became a name
to conjure with. The news spread like a
fire fanned by high winds. Where hundreds
had come hitherto, now came thousands.
The newly-formed Victorian Government,
alarmed at the exodus of people to the
mother colony, offered rewards to the dis-
>overer of gold in payable quantities within
Victoria, and a few weeks later rival claim-
ants were clamoring for the reward. The
great goldfields of Victoria were opened up,
and people from every quarter of the globe
poured into the country. The imagination
of the world was taken by storm by the
huge masses in which the gold was found.
Single nuggets were sold for over ten
thousand pounds. The great fields Bunin-
yong, Ballarat and Mount Alexander sprang
into activity almost overnight. The con-
tinent seemed to be sown with gold.
The profits of Hyde’s Stores, big enough
on the scattered New South Wales fields,
were more than trebled on the richer Vic-
torian mines, though the difficulties of
organisation were greater for the Quarter-
master, as they were so far from his base
of supplies. He had, however, organised
the local supplies as far as possible, and
had established a buying and distributing
centre in Melbourne, with a capable man
in charge, and there was no limit to the
prices a lucky miner would pay after he
had struck it rich. He had nearly as pos-
sible accomplished his desire that Hyde’s
Stores should follow wherever the miners
might go.
It was impossible for him to retain control
of such a vast complex organisation, and
as conditions settled down to regularity in
each district local supplies had increased,
and his elaborate transport scheme became
unnecessary. The Quartermaster had there-
fore followed the practice of selling his store
and its goodwill as soon as he could get a
price. Now at the end of six years he
could boast that he had amassed a fortune,
and in addition still held most profitable
shares in three or four stores on some of
the principal fields, though his active
interest was given up.
He came back in the spring of 1857 to
take up life in a changed city. The golden
years had altered the face of Sydney.
Himself nearly seventy years old now, he
felt almost lost. The very streets seemed un-
familiar. George-street was extending
westward; it would soon be at their very
doors. Opposite the Laburnums the Great
Hall of the University was rising stone by
stone, to be a beautiful and enduring monu-
ment to the courage and wisdom of its
founders. The old landmarks that had
stood like friendly figures along the road
to Windmill-street seemed to have dis-
appeared or to have suffered a sea change.
The Cathedral Church of St. Andrew was
complete; now that the scaffolding and
workmen were gone, it looked as if it had
stood there for years. Further down the
street, workmen were busy on the new
post office, which was to be a splendid build-
ing. Further down still, George-street
•North was almost entirely handed over to
the Chinese. Thousands of Chinese had
poured into the country in the early years
of the gold rush. Now, after the manner of
their race, they had congregated together
and made a distinctive Chinese quarter in
the heart of the city. But the change he
noticed most in George-street was the
number of banks that had arisen since he
had left. Nothing else marked so clearly
the growth of Sydney’s wealth and com-
merce during the six years of his absence.
. The old quagmire in which Pitt-street
had terminated was filled in and a respect-
able thoroughfare to the Quay substituted.
The railway from Sydney to Parramatta,
an apparently hopeless scheme when he left,
languishing for funds and men to carry on
the work, was now r an accomplished fact.
The very atmosphere seemed different,
the problems that had aroused storms of
hatred, indignation or enthusiasm, were old
history now. The transportation question
even in its milder ticket-of-leave form was
dead. Gold had killed it.
No less changed were the store at
Windmill-street and the household in City-
road.
CHAPTER XIV.
The Heir of the House.
When during the six years of his exile
the Quartermaster thought of his home, it
was as a haven of idyllic tranquillity, a place
where life was quiet, even and unchanging,
in sharp contrast to the vortex of the gold-
field on which he found himself. Lying on
his hard and narrow bed' in some bark hut
he would see little bright pictures of the
household at City-road.
These pictures were very distinct and
motionless—Fanny cutting bread and butter
and smiling; William with James on his
shoulder; James pulling up plants in the
garden; Adela sewing, with Lionel in his
starched petticoats sitting on the floor be-
side her. He always saw Adela very
clearly. He saw her brown hair parted in
the middle and drawn smooth and shining
over her ears, her wide brow that even he
recognised as beautiful, her hazel eyes that
were both courageous and timid, her mouth
too soft for the line of concentration in
which it was set, her swift delicate hands
at work upon a little garment. For six
years Adela sat sewing and Fanny cut thin
bread and butter. The pictures would not
move or come to life. When he came to
Sydney on his flying visits he was always
astonished to find the boys grown taller
and his pretty abstractions filled out with
life. He rarely had time to think of any-
thing but business. All his energies of mind
and body were in play and he asked no-
thing better of life.
Life at the City-road was by no means
as static as the Quartermaster imagined it.
Leaning over the front gate of the Labur-
nums you could catch an intriguing glimpse
of the Parramatta-road and the procession
that now wound along it. It was a sight
that might have interested anyone. In those
days the Parramatta-road was the most
interesting thing in New South Wales. It
showed a nation in the making. Along it
passed men on horseback and on foot,
covered waggons with children peeping out
at the back, sundowners tramping soberly
and evenly, contemptuous of the amateurs
who thought they could get to the fields
in a hop, step and a jump; smart young
men with bright new billycans in their
hands and blankets across their backs,
travelling light and fast; pedantic fellows
with queer implements hung all over them,
pedlars hurrying to the first halting-place,
scholars reading as they tramped.
As James watched with large eyes, two
men passed him, one wheeling a truck piled
with his worldly goods, the other driving
a sheep which he meant to eat by the way.
Then a man and woman approached. The
woman was buxom and her skirt was
kilted up to her knees. The man led a
little shaggy donkey loaded with his goods.
He wore a cabbage-tree hat and under it a
wide, impudent, friendly smile. James heard
him say to the woman as he drew near:
“He has a lucky face.” Then, “Wish us
luck, young master.”
James was anxious to be polite because
he liked the donkey very much, but he did
not know what to say.
“Wish us as much gold as we can carry
away and the strength of ten to carry it,”
prompted the woman in her soft broad
speech.
“Yes,” said James and repeated the wish.
“Now give us something that is yours”
—and the 'man tweaked the fine cambric
handkerchief out of James’s pocket. “Look,
young master, we will fasten it-to Neddy’s
headband. It is for luck, see. And when
we come back we’ll bring you a nugget as
big as my hat.”
“When will you come back?” asked
James.
“Well, say, in a month from to-day. Can
you count up to a month?”
A man urged his tired horse past James.
“Come up, Jenny, thou’lt have golden shoes
coming back.”
* * * *
Adela found James difficult. He had
inherited the Quartermaster’s exceptional
vitality, William’s reserve and Fanny’s
pride. The combination required more tact
and sympathy than Adela was ever able to
give her elder son. The Quartermaster could
always manage James, simply because he
never realised that he was a problem. He
was content to treat the little boy as an
individual from the first, to leave his child-
ish reserves untouched, and, when he needed
correction, to be firm, definite and brief.
Adela made the mistake of being too
gentle and too inquisitive. She was always
seeking for some secret passage to the child’s
mind, trying to screw from him avowals
of weakness and affection that would deliver
him into her hand. She put him at a dis-
advantage and tried to keep him there. To
shake off this faint, unpleasant feeling he
tried to assert himself, and the only way
that he knew of asserting himself was to
make a noise and behave violently. This
put him further in the wrong and reinforced
the legend that he was a naughty boy. In
the last resort he could always reimburse
his self-respect by comparing himself, either
forcibly or verbally, with his little brother,
and this carried him further out of favor
still.
He never had any of these feelings with
his papa. William took him seriously. They
went out for solemn walks, William point-
ing opt objects of interest or telling James
about the ships in port, or even striding
along in silence plunged in his own thoughts
while the little boy panted manfully at his
side, ready to die rather than ask him to
walk slowly. William scarcely treated James
as a child at all, never tried to improve his
mind or talked down to him or tried to find
out what he was thinking. James wor-
shipped him, which Adela thought strange,
for William did not seem at all the colorful
kind of character one would expect to appeal
to a child.
James was very happy playing alone in
the garden; but then he had generally to
share his games with Lionel and that was
not the same thing, for Lionel never seemed
old enough or strong enough to do the
things he wanted to do. And it was no
good showing off to Lionel, because he was
never impressed.
Day by day, pebble by pebble, a barrier
rose up between the brothers. James was
nearly always the aggressor. Lionel was not
a quarrelsome child, although he was some-
times peevish. He had a tantalising way of
ignoring James’s superiority; the more
James boasted the less impressed was
Lionel. He had the air of having the
winning trick up his sleeve. He was con-
tent with what he had; he did not covet
his father’s friendship, nor his aunt’s good
opinion. But the proud child wanted every-
thing.
No irreparable harm was done yet; and
as the boys grew older they bickered no
more than is natural to children. There were
truces and alliances that lasted sometimes
for weeks; and they formed a more or less
permanent combination against their tutor,
an earnest, cadaverous, delicate young
Englishman named Monk.
The rector had presented and William
seized Bertram Monk with almost equal
ardor. He had studied for the Church, but at
the last moment had been seized with doubts.
These doubts had been the romance of his
life. He related his spiritual struggles with
terrible earnestness to anyone who would
listen. But his doubts were of such a
technical nature that neither the rector nor
William felt they could menace the salva-
tion of two little boys, though Mr. Monk
conscientiously expounded his heresies before
he accepted the appointment. He was lank
and unprepossessing. James especially, who
was easily disgusted by any sort of physical
imperfection, found his perpetual snuffling
cold hateful. Adela did not like him, be-
cause he always seemed to want to sympa-
thise with her, and it was some time before
she realised that this had no personal appli-
cation, but was merely his manner for
ladies.
Together the boys perpetrated very crude
practical jokes on him, but he never lost
his temper. Even while he was wiping
water from his collar, or winding up the
string that they had too optimistically
expected to trip him, he would say with
a faded laugh: “Oh, very ingenious, but
not quite kind, do you think? I know it’s
just your sense of fun, but still I think
James had better write ‘esse’ out twice be-
fore he goes to play. And what can Lionel
do?” He would beam waterly as if about
to announce a treat. “I think he had better
write a page in his copy-book, because his
writing is so deplorable.”
As they grew older the brothers grew
further apart; something hard and bitter
entered even into their games. Their dis-
agreements were strung on a thread of per-
manent resentment. Adela did not see it.
They were good, they were naughty, the
days passed. She was too close to them to
see the pattern that their lives were weaving.
William did not see it, because he was a
domestic idealist. He clung desperately to
the belief that his wife and sons were
models. James could do no wrong, being
his son, and Lionel was a good little thing,
a mere baby. Besides, William was very
busy making money and impressing himself
on the industrial life of the city by the
sheer dead load of his integrity.
Fanny, who had the sharpest eyes in the
house, saw nothing until it was too late.
She was absorbed in her work at the store
and rarely came home before the boys were
in bed. She worked very hard and it suited
her. The store and its clients came to
take her for granted, and William had to
admit that feminine influence had not
destroyed the discipline of his establish-
ment. She had many a long and secret
tussle with the books, wrinkling her brow
and biting her lip in a frantic effort of
concentration. She appealed to Benjamin
in her difficulties, turning back the books
till she found his frail exquisite figures, and
copying his methods. To William she never
appealed, and only the old ledgers and
the ink-stained table beheld her perplexities.
Soon she ceased to be a wonder, and the
slim, neat figure in grey alpaca or brown
merino became as much a part of the office
furniture as the swivel chair or the calf-
bound ledgers., At first, confident and
masculine footsteps would approach the
office, check suddenly and retreat in disorder
to a muttered “Beg pardon, Miss,” and
tyrants of the fo’c’s’le had to be driven
into the office, where they sat nervously on
the edges of their chairs. But they soon
found out that Fanny was neither formid-
able nor soft. She had the rare power of
sinking her sex in her individuality.
At first she had been frightened by the
multiplicity of her duties and by the jungle
of figures into which she was so suddenly
plunged. The business vocabulary was
almost like a foreign language. Then she
would think, “Well, after all, it can’t be
anything but commonsense,” and clear-
ing away the entangling undergrowth of
jargon, she found that it was only common-
sense. In three months she had thoroughly
mastered the routine of her work. The
jargon of trade no longer obscured it, but
seemed rather a sacred hieroglyphic that she
was proud to use. Now the dry bones of
her clerical work began to take on flesh.
She learned to see the business as a com-
pact and intricate whole. Day by day she
pieced it together from the books, from
William, and from the conversation of cus-
tomers.
She had thought of work at the store as
providing her with occupation and indepen-
dence, but she found in it romance as well.
She did not know it, but the Quartermaster’s
feelings towards his lifework were being re-
produced in her. She saw their business
as a plastic, living thing, and she admired
(Continued on page 58.)
LIFE IN RUSSIA.
During the past two years “The Bulletin” has published half a dozen
fascinating stories of life in Mongolia and Siberia by S. Stedman, a
Russian, born in the latter territory. Next week’s “Bulletin’ will
include another vivid story of Russian peasant life. You will get a
better idea of modern Russia from this than from a hundred dry
articles.


w
“Ol'IC „ ,
GUAKANTEE .
This garment i*
guaranteed perfect
manufacture. Examine
thoroughly »» 'e f °
washing and If Uefet-
tivo return to stoic
from which It was
nun .fused within
7 clays.
Geo. A. Ifoml &
Vo. Mil.
And now comes
Super Rayon
with a full
(guarantee
The Quality Lingers On*
After all is said and done, the
quality in “Charm” lingers on.
Delicate shadings and exquisite
beauty are indeed synonymous
with this enticing Lingerie.
After “Charm” has been worn
for months the quality
lingers on! And then comes
the irresistible desire to buy
again “Still more of these deli-
cate, dainty garments.”
RAYON UNDERWEAR.
r nv S'lfl
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY THE EMPLOYEES OF
GEO. A. BOND & CO., LTD. (In Liq.).


The only Car Battery
in the World with
Four Years’ Guarantee
TUNGSTONE
The only Car Battery in the
World tested and certified
at the British Government's
Testing Station.
TUNGSTONE HOLDS TitE “ WORLD’S RECORD»» FOR HIGHEST AMP. AND WATT HOUR
ELECTRICAL EFFICIENCIES CERTIFIED BY NATIONAL PHYSICAL LABORATORY.
After 50 years* Stagnation of the World’s Battery Practices
Tungstone has Revolutionized Battery Design Construction giving Longer Life.
Only “ All Metal ” Battery in the World with a “ Pure Lead ” Machine-Pasted Plate. Paste cannot be forced out of Plate. Plate cannot be
Buckled, Distorted, Short-Circuited or Overheated by Excessively High Charging Rates in any Climate
STANDARDIZATION INTERCHANGEABILITY ACCESSIBILITY
IS PERFECTLY APPLIED TO THE COMPLETE BATTERY, 2-VOLT CELLS OR PLATE SECTIONS AND ALL OTHER COMPONENT PARTS.
Perfect Accessibility to the Standardised and Interchangeable Parts absolutely guarantees that anyone in a few minutes with only two spanners
(supplied free) can Inspect or Re-place Set of Negative or Positive Rates, also can change over or take out any individual 2-Volt Cell.
No Bitumen to melt in Hot Climates. No Celluloid Cells that Sweat and Short-circuit
V*.!
>4
1
“ v '
FOUR YEARS*
Free Replacement
GUARANTEE
TUNGSTONE ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.
Guarantees at any time during the aforesaid period
dating from the Works Delivery date of each new
Battery to Replace Free of all Charges the
following Interchangeable and Standardised
Component Parts should they fail to work reliably
through faulty workmanship, defective material or
other mechanical defects—accidents and misuse
excepted.
This Guarantee directly applies only to the 1- Volt
Metal Cell; Metal Cell Lid with castun Ebonite
Bush ; Patent Metal Vent Plug ; Flexible or Rigid
Intercell and Main Connectors; Ebonite End Plate
Holders ; Ebonite Side Sheets; Rubber Washers for
Terminal Post: Lead Coated Nuts ; Vislok Triple
Lock Nut.
The Original 2'Volt Cell number must I e quoted
from which has been taken any aforementioned Part
for free, replacement and the Disused Part to be
replaced must at the same time be returned carriage
paid.
FOUR YEARS*
GUARANTEED
SPECIAL PRICES
for New Sets of Plates to
Reflate any Cell in use
TUNGSTONE ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.
Guarantees at any time during the aforesaid period,
dating from the Works Delivery date of each new
Battery, to supply to order in such numbers as
required for the Replating of any 2Wolt Cell in their
List, a complete New Set of Positive or Negative
Machine Pasted Plates of Standardised and
Interchangeable Design Guaranteed to fit any
2*Volt Metal Cell already in use.
Each New Set of Positive or Negative Plates fixed on
Bridge will for our years be supplied at prices not
higher in cost than the prices as stated in their List.
New Sets of Plates on Bridge will include the Works
First Partial Dry Charge at 85% of their rated
capacity.
The Original 2-Volt Cell Number must be quoted
from which the Disused Set of Positive or Negative
Plates are taken, and the Disused Plates must at the
same time be returned, carriage paid.
London Double-Decker Omnibus using Tungstone 12-Volt 180 a.h. Batteries
TUNGSTONE CONTINUOUSLY CHARGED by CONSTANT POTENTIAL DYNAMO FOR 15 hrs. DAILY
• all \/f UN ?” R ™/^ E r AR ; NTEES ALL BATTERY running costs can be reliably calculated to a few pence
, A j;, N cta T t r> eE an - c ? m ß ( ? l } en ,t, Gell parts under Free Replacement Guarantee, makes Tungstone to
be the Longest Life Battery in the World. Your Electrician becomes independent of Battery Service Stations,
chus avoiding the many costly Vexatious Delays. NO OMNIBUS TIME LOST FOR BATTERY REPAIRS
Without Removing the complete Battery off the Vehicle anyone can Replate any Cell
DrACT r "TT\ 7r? A xm \T-nn a mTT m a _
POSITIVE AND NEGATIVE PLATE SECTIONS WILL NOT REQUIRE TO BE REFLATED AT THE SAME TIME.
FOUR CONTINUOUS HOURS CHARGING COMPLETES WORKS PARTIAL CHARGE, THUS SAVING CONSIDERABLE TIME AND EXPENSE.
nIurNJAT 6 STANDAifn PL a A ™?, A n 9 EEE ° R COMPLETE BAT TERY RELIABLY RENEWS THE CAPACITY AND HIGH EFFICIENCY TO THE
COMBINATION *S/rrrP t5£J2? R £- t xJS^ E P UR YEARS ’ GUARANTEE TO REPLACE FREE, THE 'COMPONENT CELL PARTS, IN
COMBINATION WITH RE-PLATiNG, MAKES TUNGSTONE THE CHEAPEST, WITH THE LONGEST LIFE, OF ANY BATTERY IN THE WORLD
Tungstone’s Robust Machine-Pasted “Pure Lead” Plates
are Stronger, Thicker and Heavier than any Hand-Pasted Plate in the World.
Tungstone NOT using Wood or Ebonite Separators is free from Internal Resistance and Acid Impurity which is proved by the Exceptional Discharges giving the Strongest
Starter ic' o any Battery in the World. Wood Separators, as used by all the Worlds Makers, create continuous Internal Obstruction in each Cell, preventing the free
circu a ion o e cid, which creates permanent Internal Resistance. The Acid being Overheated quickly reduces the Wood Separators to a “Pulp’ and aided by the
dissolving Uamphor in the Cells produces permanent Impurity of Acid solution, which creates Frothing and Foaming in all other Makers’ Cells.
Permanent Internal Resistance
with Overheated and Impure Acid are Two Basic Defects in Present-day Cells of all other Makers
Th t | m f e ?f ro C cid Filling Only Exception Tungstone there is continuous rapid loss of Amp and Watt hour efficiencies proved by the need for frequent re-charging
rMi p“!!fi der^ t° rte T d kytEe paste being continuously forced into the bottqm of all Cells, for which all Makers make very ample provision. Paste lying at the
° * and ElgEt irretnevaß ly lost, and the cause of many Short-circuits that entirely destroy the complete Battery, a risk always present with all other make
The Plate is the “Nerve Centre” of any Battery.
Short-circiiitecl Distorted or Ovei heated by High Charging r ates. Tungstone’s Patented Plate Improvements are centred and practically
T nnnocf- t -fp Tnnacinnp t-K ? nS Aiv?! 1 T U.APressure Die-Cast and Machine Pasted Plate that is Guaranteed to give Reliable, Dependable, Generous Storage Capacity with
f \ ■ 1 '? p r , LT/ ( ? at U y ?nd 1! ? the World guaranteed to contain the largest quantity of Pure Lead and using only the smallest quantity of Antimony (a metal
L L rci c e Band to strengthen the Pure Lead Grids, thereby making Tungstone the Thickest Strongest and Most Robust Battery Plate in the World.
Tungstone Plate Guaranteed free from Permanent Deepseated Sulphation—the deadly disease that kills all other Makers’ Plates.
TungstQne starter Kicks as stated and guaranteed are the Highest Records in the Battery World, proving that “ Pure Lead ” is the Only Metal that will .Reliably, Efficiently and
Generously Generate and Store Electricity for Light and Power.
TUNGSTONE ACCUMULATOR CO., Ltd., 3, St. Bride’s House, Salisbury Square, Fleet Street, London, E.C. 4.
Telephone: CENTRAL 8156 (4 lines). Telegrams : “Typify, Fleet, London.” Cablegrams : “Dilutum, London.”
Patented and Trademark Registered in the Chief Countries of the World.
Immediate delivery from Stocks can be given by: —
SYDNEY: A. J. Dawson, M.1.A.E., 91 William Street, Sydney. Tel. FL2084
MELBOURNE: Hocking & Hadden Pty., Ltd., 208 Latrobe Street.
BRISBANE: Brisbane Cars and Tractors, Ltd., 324-28 Wickham Street,
- ’
PERTH: R. Little & Co., 33 Pier Street.
ADELAIDE: Mechanical Supplies, Ltd., Grenfell Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Aldridge Ltd., Hearne’s Buildings,
i no n?Yfm


■WINCHESTER
TRADE MARK
r
yVJNC/fi:ST£k
SjjCTPPER ICLfID BULLET
24JKJM
f *°*
gfawi^S
Imtc/fiJrm
KOPPERKLAP BULLETJ
£
STAYN LESS
SB
,Z 2 CAUBER
Fast, Accurate,
. . AD Eit»*e B »®«
ty\ factorY,^*®
1V are bv thesa T
sam lo b"' d the
men * ho game
\Vinches« E 6 d
apP nd
aMe3SV «*T^ a '
° f S^.ZlCal-
Target Wfc* ar f
ibet l aT & « world'
Inthemakingof^V
records Q a \,
Winchester •
tber {qt
r P SU-ltS-
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A.
Always use Winchester Ammunition fn Winchester Rifles—they
are made for each other. TKcxe’s a Winchester Rifle and there’s
Winchester Ammunition for every .22 caliber shooting purpose.
>
srJ
FJ
S'
W i
The pen for
ready writers
BUSINESS and professional
men and women everywhere
constantly realise the need of
a pen that will write under all con-
ditions and maintain that easy flow which
prevents fatigue in writing.
. is why Pens find their way
into the hands of busy people all the world over
1 he carefully graduated nibs of “Swan’’Pens, each
pointed with osmi-iridium, enables you to select
the light point for your style of handwriting.
Select your “ Swan ” to-day—it will give you a lifetime
Choose it now —use it a lifetime
Swan Self-Filling Pens from 17/6.
MABIE TODD & CO., LTD., London, W.i
factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing A gents & Repair Service Depot ■
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
‘■Swan ” Pens, “Blackbird” Pens, "Swan"
Ink and Fyne-Poynt” Pencils.
Of stationers and jewellers.
Vse ‘Swan ’ Inkjor 'Swan ’ Pens & all Pens.
>s#
If any Illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
The Murder of Montague Darby.
A VIVID STONY OF ANOTHER DOCTOR’S DILEMMA,
BY C. G. DEAROYD.
MONTAGUE DARBY lies dead ill his
coffin upstairs, safely nailed down. I
murdered him.
In about two hours' time my sister Joyce
and I shall follow the body to the cemetery,
the only mourners, and in that short time
I want to write down, clearly and without
bias, how this wretched tragedy became in-
evitable.
But before I begin I should like to say
I his emphatically, that I was always proud
of Darby's- friendship, and that he was a
man of the strictest integrity and a clean
liver.
To begin at the beginning is to go back
eight years, when Darby and I were fellow-
students at the University in the preliminary
science course. I remember him as a tall,
gaunt lad, high cheekbones, with a vivid
splash of color over them; bright brown eyes
and short, black hair; a jolly smile until
the huge eye-teeth came into view, when he
looked distinctly wolfish.
The first incident 1 remember concerning
him, and in which he figured dramatically,
occurred about half-way through our first
term. A lecture in zoology had just been
given, and a series of slides under micro-
scopes had been left 011 a side bench to illus-
trate the lecture. Students would look at
the slides and then hurry away to lunch.
Darby was looking down a microscope when
a fellow called Larson, coming up behind
him, put a biological specimen—a bit of
pickled dogfish or a dissected frog, something
of that sort—into the other's coat pocket.
This type of humor is not uncommon in the
first year, when the students are little more
than boys. Unfortunately. Darby felt his
pocket being touched, put his hand in and
felt the clammy thing. He wheeled round,
saw Larson’s grinning face, and without a
second’s pause knocked him to the ground.
In a flash he was kneeling astride ,of him
and hammering his head as hard and as
fiercely as he could. Several fellows pulled
him off, and then went to attend to Larson,
who was covered with blood, but not really
very much hurt. Darby, with his nosti-ils
dilated, like a frightened horse, and looking
very pale, turned away, and without a word
to anyone left the room. He didn't come
back to classes for a week; but that night,
when I was ivorkiug in my rooms, there
was a knock on the street door below, and
shortly afterwards my . housekeeper ushered
him in.
“Hullo, working?” he said in an ill-con-
cealed attempt to appear natural. He still
looked pale and frightened, and as soon as
the door was closed he turned ou me eagerly.
“Is Larson all right?” he said.
1 1 reassured him with a laugh. “His face
is a hit damaged, but he was well enough
to attend the afternoon lecture. I must say
I think he deserved some of what he got.
It was a dirty trick.”
For several minutes he sat on my sofa
with his head between his hands and never
said a word. Then I made some remark
about our work, with tin 1 result that we sat
talking to a late hour. That really was the
start of my friendship with him.
The next vacation he and I went camping
together out in the bush. We took a couple
of horses and passed the time very agree-
ably shooting and riding and reading, for
the first examinations were already looming
up ahead. Darby was as jolly a companion
as any man could desire, doing far more thau
his fair share of the work, and always cheer-
ful. Yet two incident of that holiday re-
main in ray mind as links in the chain of
evidence which finally led me to commit
murder.
Over the camp-fire one night we were hav-
ing a political discussion. Neither of us
cared a scrap about it really, but, in the
usual way, we were exercising our debating
powers. Towards the end of the argument
I happened to say, “Well, I don't think
yours is the sane view, anyhow.”
“Sane? Why not sane?" His voice had
changed, and it sounded almost angry.
“The right view, then, if you like that
better,’ I said, and thought no more about
it.
In the middle of the night I was awak-
ened by a sort of snuffling noise. I sat up
and listened. It was Darby crying. I spoke
to him. but he was asleep. I was wondering
whether it was worth waking him. when I
was astonished to hear my own words sobbed
out as by a child. “It’s not the sane view.
It s not the sane view.” The true signi-
ficance of it didn’t dawn on me then; I
thought he was going over our argument in
a nightmare, so I threw a boot in his direc-
tion and woke him up. Drowsily he wanted
to know what was the matter. In student
language I told him he was disturbing mo,
afffl we both went to sleep.
(Then, coming home, we were pretty heavily
laden, and Darby s horse was a restive boast
with a curious sort of sideways shy which
often displaced the pack. I stopped three
or four times to help him, and then at his
request I went on. After about half an
hour I looked back, and could only just
see him, so I got out my binoculars to find
out what he was doing. He had apparently
tied the horse up and was thrashing it; the
hqrso was lashing out. and there was a lot
of dust. After a long while lie mounted and
came along. He looked just as he had done
after the Larson affair —nostrils dilated, very
pale and a sort of fixed stare. The horse
whs m a terrific sweat, and had a number
of bleeding wounds on the flank. He never
spoke until we got to the railhead, and
the man from whom we had hired the horses
wanted two pounds for damage to the animal
He was paid without a word.
At the time I thought Darby had lost
nis temper in a very childish way. but some
months later another aspect of‘it was re-
vealed to me.
Four or five of us students were talking
rcftind the fire in the club room. Darbv's
name cropped up. and someone gave it as
jl t °Pi»ion that he was a “weird bird.” and
promptly apologised to me. knowing that
lie was a friend of mine. Then a fellow
named Wilson chipped in: “The wonder is
he is not weirder still. His people used to
live close to my home. His father, to say
the least of it, was queer; his mother died
in an asylum, and two sisters have gone
the same way.”
In a flash the awfulness of Darby's skele-
ton in the cupboard was revealed to me.
I turned on Wilson and said, “I think you
are the damnedest cad I have ever met to
disclose those facts. Can’t you see that
Darby is carrying a far bigger load than any
of us here—even than young Steele with his
t.b. hip? God, man, the knowledge—why, it
must be like one long nightmare! If you
chaps have a spark of decency in you you
will never let another soul know these things,
and be as friendly to him as possible.” I
turned away half-crying; emotion always
has that effect on me.
Wilson followed me up and apologised, and
later told me that the others had agreed to
treat his disclosure as unsaid.
I am glad to lie able to record this, that
I defended my friend, and possibly pre-
vented his story from becoming public pro-
perty. I certainly created a more friendly
atmosphere for him among the students, for
my friends round the fireside —good chaps
all—took my hint and made themselves very
agreeable to him.
And so the first year finished. Darby and
1 both got first-class, and I think we de-
served it; we had worked very hard.
Then we parted; he went over to the
Engineering, while I went to the Me'dical
School.
For five years I hardly saw him once in
six months. Occasionally we would meet in
town and have a meal together or chat for a
few moments in the street. Neither of us
played games or did anything, in fact, except
work, so there was no common meeting-
ground.
Once I met him just as he was going into
liis lodgings ; I didn’t know where he lived
till then. He asked me in ; he could hardly
have done otherwise. His rooms were as
bare as could be—not a photo, not a picture;
just two big technical books lying on the
table. It was a cheerless and friendless
atmosphere. I realised then something of
the utter loneliness of his position.
I asked him to come round and see me,
but he didn’t come—at least not until nearly
a year afterwards. Then he came only be-
cause he wanted a paper signed, and it had
to be done by a qualified medical man. I
had graduated then, and was living with my
sister in this little house of ours. My father
had died about six months before, and we
had come to live here, as it is so close to St.
Benjamin’s Hospital, where I am the bac-
teriologist. Legally, I will add, I am my
sister’s guardian.
Well, Darby and. I had been chatting for
about ten minutes when Joy came in. I
introduced him as “my old friend Darby,”
and Joy asked him to our evening meal,
which was nearly ready. Rather to my sur-
prise lie accepted, and we had quite a merry
time. Apparently he had finished his engi-
neering course, having done very well at it.
in the matter of examinations, and was now
working for a big firm and living not far
from us.
That was the precursor of many another
meal, and during the next six months he
must have come round to us twice a week
on the average. Joy said she rather liked
him, and that she thought it was jolly good
for me to have a man to talk to, and “kept
me away from my old books.”
We used to have the most amusing dis-
cussions, while Joy would sit on the sofa and
knit, or sometimes act as referee. The
arguments were nearly always of the same
type: the materialistic engineer’s point of
view, not admitting anything that was not
fully proved, against the medical idea, which
will accept the weight of evidence, and be-
lieves in putting forward theories to try
to meet known facts.
I often used to think that he loved his
engines because they acted as a sort of cor-
rective to his hereditary tendency. After all,
engines are the sanest things on earth; they
go for a reason, stop for a reason, and there
is a reason in every nut. That is the sort
of strain he used to talk in, dominating me
and nearly always beating me. although, of
course, I knew I was right the whole time.
I did not realise then that he was not
talking only to me, nor even chiefly to me:
1 was blind in those days, criminally blind.
I spent my days peering down a microscope
which magnified a thousand times, yet when
I came home in the evening I couldn’t see
what was going on beneath my nose.
One evening I came into this room
and found Joy and Darby on the sofa with
their arms round each other. They smiled
at me in a happy, fatuous sort of way.
“We’re engaged, George dear,” said my
sister.
“He doesn’t look very pleased about it,”
laughed Darby.
I stood like an idiot, gazing at. them
through my spectacles; the possibility of
such a tiling had never occurred to me.
Then I 'stammered out my congratulations,
and we went in to supper.
Darby was in great form, pulling my leg
chiefly, but T was thankful when the meal
was over. I left them shortly afterwards
and went up to my study to think the matter
over.
In the first place I reviewed ail the in-
formation I had concerning Darby and his
family history. It was quite clear that lie
came from terribly tainted stock, and was
not far from the borderland himself. If he
came across times of stress and strain, as
he inevitably must, he would probably break
down himself, and in any case he would run
a grave risk of transmitting the taint to his
children.
I walked up and down in great agitation.
What a prospect for Joy—the. sanest, the
best-natured girl on earth, the only being I
really loved, and whom our mother and father
had left in my charge!
(Continued on page 57.)


Banking, Public Companies, etc,
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £8.869.905
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18.623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. H. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E.;
GEORGE J. SLY. LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE ; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER: C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 186 Brandies
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,009
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS °*l
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament 1865,
and Registered under the Companies Act 1892,
of South Australia.)
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 985,000
£2,235,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,485,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
y'
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL & Clio.
If you have
Woo! & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CLUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISLAND SHEEF DOG
TRIAL ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. FOLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World's Leading
Advertising Agencies.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE . --- - 3d.
j ’
It deals r ith every subject of
interest to women.
Shipping, etc.
From
Sydney to Vancouver
Via
Suva and Honolulu
LIKE the multi-c olored
streamers of farewell, days
aboard a Union Company #
Steamer are gay and ever
varied.
Between Ports of many
Pleasures strung lightly across
the Pacific, travellers enjoy the
refreshment of adventure, peace
and comfort.
Visit Pacific ts/es by the
CAN ADI AN-AUSTRALASIAN
LINE
Union Steam Ship Company,
247 George Street, Sydney.
William Street, Melbourne.
'/"''Mffc
1
o
A VISIT TO JAVA (the Garden of the East).
Native Bazaars, Famous Temples, Tea Gardens.
SPECIALLY CONDUCTED TOUR.
Leaving Sydney 7th August, 1929, S.S. MARELLA (7500 tons).
Seven weeks’ inclusive tour, £129 (All Expenses).
Fare includes First-class Return Steamer Passage and about 14 days
Motor Tour through JAVA. All Hotels, Sightseeing & Motor Guides, etc.
Book Early. Party Limited.
PACIFIC ISLAND EXCURSIONS
To — Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island, Norfolk Island and New Hebrides ,
TRIPS OF 2 TO 5 WEEKS’ DURATION.
Apply to
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE.
•m
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811
With which is amalgn mated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund. .
Reserve Liability
w
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20.900,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30. 1928, £88,982,585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
554 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - - - - 4,075,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,553,025 0 0
D'vrectors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN ( Chairman) ;
Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C. ; Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.;
OWEN ESMOND FRIEND: Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHZJRST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings,
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
FOR BRISBANE. MAOKAY. TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outports).
YOU’LL WANT TO STAY LONGER
at
HAWAII
HAWAII
HAWAII
Less than two weeks away from Sydney, in
sunny Hawaii, you can be as lazy as you like.
A few days’ loafing and you’ll feel a new zest
for golf—new vim in the morning plunge on
a lovely beach where the water never gets
cold —new appetite at the numerous hotels or
restaurants made for your holiday entertain-
ment. Inter-Island 'Cruises. Visit Ivilauea
Volcano. Come then, wile away happy holiday
hours at
HAWAII, HAWAII, HAWAII
The round steamer trip from Sydney costs but
£75 up, first-class; or £55 up, second-class —
and first-class Hotel Expenses range from 12/-
to £3 per day with .meals.
Fullest particulars from all Travel or Steam-
ship Offices or from this Office direct.
HAWAII TOURIST BUREAU,
Dept. 26, Box 162788, G.F.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening ; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES. —
Steamer and Motor throughout. Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/I,'-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU. CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart Pa rk e r L !££ r
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice vena.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA- —-From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART P ARK ER LI MITER
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S
ONLY PICTORIAL DAILY
Wap Jlegfeter
NEWS PICTORIAL
ALL THE NEWS!
ALL THE PICTURES!
Must be included in any advertising
campaign seeking to cover the great
Central State.
SALES INCREASING RAPIDLY.
HEAD OFFICE: REGISTER NEWS-
PAPERS, LIMITED, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative: F. Thompson,
133 a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Melbourne Representative: G. N.
Bednall, The Herald Office, Flin-
ders Street. Telephone: C 4643.


Garages equipped with
TecalemiY
LUBRICATING APPARATUS
render the best service to Car Owners by
keeping cars “youthful” and' eliminating
the cause of 80 per cent, of repairs.
Particulars from
TECALEMIT SERVICE STATIONS:
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD. Hay Street, PERTH
CORNELL, LTD. 122 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD. - Bateman Street, MELBOURNE
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD. - - Pitt Street, SYDNEY
MARTIN WILSON BROS., LTD., 299 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE
Factory Representative .... Mr. James Thornell, 312 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
TECALEMIT, LTD. Mitre House, Scrubbs Lane, LONDON, N.W.10
WEED
—4.—-
In. mud, sand or slippery clay,
Weed Tyre Chains grip and hold.
They provide safe, sure traction
that drives the car or truck steadily
onward. Every turn of the motor
is transmitted into actual mileage.
Fuel is economized-safety assured.
Look for the name “Weed” on
every hook .
ŵ
WEED TYRE CHAINS
4037
mr
& y \\ -
&
P
A
5
THM A
B
□WDE*
For the relief of
ASTHMA, CATARRH,
WHOOPING COUGH,
BRONCHITIS and
COLD IN THE HEAD
For outdoors, use Potter's
Smoking Mixture and Cigarettes
2/6 per Tin from all Medicine
Vendors.
POTTER & CL A’ KE, Ltd.
. Artillery Lane,
V London, End A
“THE AGE”
Established 185 J.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of care
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
KNOW. Appeal to them through “THE AGE,”
which others have found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 75 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 123,533 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings.
“THE AGE”
circulation is in reality a body of
rteaders which, has been organised
into a body of Purchasers.
Kates on application fo the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office;: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
mu
mnm-* C
ẁ
Select Club Reil Cigars, because they are
made of rich Havana leaf, fragrant and
flavorsome. . . .and delightfully mild. Club
Reil Cigars are obtainable at hotels and
tobacconists’ or at address below.
ORDER BY POST.
10 cigars 5/6 (posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/- ( „ 12/6)
50 „ 23/- ( „ 23/9)
100 „ 45/- ( „ 46/-)
Ptublfegg
CRAIG &AITKEN - 654 GEORGE ST, SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY.
You can be sure I did not spare myself,
and cursed nay utter folly in encouraging
Darby to come to the house.
Joy knocked at my door. “Montie’s just
going,” she said.
I went downstairs and wished him good-
bye, and hoped he would be very happy.
My words were so obviously forced that lie
laughed.
‘‘He's worrying as to how lie’s going to
get on .alone,” he laughed; “but you must
come and live with us, old chap.”
We watched him tip the street and turned
back into this room.
“You’re not pleased,” said my sister.
"Oh, Joy,” I blurted out, ‘‘lie's got the
most awful family history!”
"But, George, he can’t help what his
parents did. It was probably their own
fault—they drank too much or got sun-
stroke or something of that, sort.”
"Then he’s very unstable himself,” I said.
"What nonsense, George ! I think Mon-
tie’s about the sanest man I have ever come
across. I am awfully sorry you don't like
it, George dear, but whatever you say will
make no difference—Montie and I are going
to get married.”
I went to bed in despair.
Next day I didn’t go to the hospital. I
spent the morning investigating the history
of the Darbys. I knew several people who
came from the same little town on the west-
ern plains. The result was even worse than
1 had thought—and I had gone back three
generations.
In the afternoon I consulted Professor
Ashcroft, the lecturer in mental diseases at
the University. I told the tale in terms of
A and B, and he listened patiently. His
judgment was concise.
“You know as well as I do, my boy, that
a person with that family history and with
those tendencies should not marry on any
account. Of course, he can't be legally pre-
vented, but, if he does so, he is committing
a crime against society. You know
what. the children of such a marriage
are liable to be. And it doesn't stop there;
it will go on for generations. It is the most
terrible curse in the world. No, my bov, you
know all this as well as I do, so it is" quite
obvious that you are either A or 13, or closely
connected to one of them Stop that mar-
riage, at all costs.”
Then I went round to Darby’s rooms. They
weren’t the same ones as 1 had been in be-
fore, but they wore almost as bare. There
was one photograph, however; it was of my
sister. She' must have given it to him the
night before. I had to wait a long time for
him, and when he came at last he greeted
me rather suspiciously.
“I want to have a very serious talk to
you,” I said.
“About my engagement?”
“Yes. I must tell you 1 know your family
history, and that I have the very best autho-
rity for saying that you have absolutely no
light to marry. It’s frightfully bad luck,
but still”—-
His face had gone ghastly white, he was
breathing heavily through widely-dilated nos-
hiH and his eyes fixed me in a mad stare.
‘Prying into my affairs, you swine!” he
gasped.
I own I was frightened. In another ten
seconds he would have been past control.
I left the room hurriedly.
He didn’t come round that night, and I
spent a most uncomfortable evening with
Joy, who sensed that something unpleasant
had occurred between Darby and me.
But next night he was round again, as
jolly as ever and pulling my leg for all
he was worth in quite the old way. I .left
them alone at the first opportunity and went
to my study to review the situation. After
the most careful consideration I came to the
conclusion that Darby must die. I could
see no alternative. I can see none now.
Once I had made up my mind I felt
much happier. I went down to them, and
was as pleasant as I could be. They obvi-
ously thought that I w r as reconciled to the
idea, and were very relieved.
Now, as I have mentioned before, I am a
bacteriologist. All day long I am looking
at or searching for germs that have caused
death or disease. And when I find them,
for various reasons, I often have to keep
them alive in test-tubes which are put in
an incubator. So that I have a stock of
deadly germs capable of causing death in
various forms constantly at hand.
Now that murder was in my mind, these
test-tubes, instead of being prisons which
had to be most carefully guarded, became
the homes of assassins who would do my will.
I spent several days deliberating which
one should be chosen—tetanus or anthrax
or perhaps a virulent streptococcus. Then
Darby himself gave me the cue. There had
been a lot of typhoid about, and at supper
one night I announced that I proposed to
inoculate myself, and advised Joy and Darby
to be done too. Joy consented, but Darby
refused. It was one of the things he “didn’t
tmheve in.” He even gave it as his opinion
that most people who got typhoid did so be-
cause they were frightened of it.
In the next fortnight I inoculated Joy and
myself, most thoroughly, three times. Ten
days after the last inoculation I came back
with a culture of living typhoid bacilli in
my pocket.
For three nights there was no opportunity
of introducing it into our food. Then on
the fourth night there was a salad for supper.
.As was my custom I took it to a side-table
to mix a dressing. Into that dressing I
poured my culture.
I brought the salad back to the table, and
Darby at once handed it to Joy. She helped
herself, then he helped himself, and finally
I took some.
. Th f n . fear overcame me. Supposing the
inoculation was not strong enough to pro-
tect Joy against so large a dose of bacilli
and she got the disease and died! I pre-
tended to find a slug in my salad, and, walk-
ing over to the fire. I made as though to
throw it in. Joy refused to touch hers after
that; but Darby said “Slugs, slugs * What
care I for slugs?” and finished the lot.
That night I agreed with him in every-
thing that lie said. One feels so apologetic
to a man in whom one has just planted
the seeds of death.
For _ a week nothing happened; then for
two nights running he didn’t come round,
•phoning through to say lie had got a touch
of the ’flu. The next day he came, looking
pale and haggard.
“Tell me what’s the matter with me,
George,’’ he said, throwing himself into this
armchair. I took his temperature; it was
105°.
“This is a hospital job,” I said, but as
I looked at him his eyes turned up and he
had convulsions. Joy came in, and between
us we got him quiet. He was only just con-
scious, but we managed to carry him up to
bod—my bed. I telephoned for a doctor and
nurses.
The doctor was suspicious of typhoid from
the start. I did the bacteriological tests,
and actually saw the descendants of the
bacilli which I had put in the salad.
That night I was watching by his bed-
side, and he opened his eyes and spoke in
quite a normal voice.
“George, am I going to die?” he asked.
I paused for a moment —I cannot lie
readily—and then said, “No, you have a very
good chance.”
There was a pause of a minute or two,
then he beckoned me closer. “That marriage
would have been damned unfair on Joy,
George,” he said.
My. heart sank within me. Why hadn’t
he said that before? I felt like falling on
my knees at his bedside and saying, “Oh,
Montie, why didn’t you say that before? I
gave you this illness. Forgive me, forgive
me!” But I didn’t; I knew he had gone
too far. 1 just watched the eyes close again,
and when the nurse came in I went to bed.
He died on the seventh day, of typhoid
fever —and morphia poisoning, a merciful
act on my part, which I owed iiim.
Poor, dear old Joy has been through a
terrible time. My only consolation is it is
the lesser of two evils.
She has come into the room, wet-eyed from
her last vigil.
The whole thing is a sordid, ghastly tra-
gedy, but 1 don't see what else I could have
done.
Do you ?
Street Scene, Sydney.
jVo flash of color f burst of scent ,
But the mind’s sloic impoverishment.
Line of level road and street,
Beat of motors, throb of feet,
Winking stream of bobbing beads
Down the pavement. Round me spreads
All the clamor, hurry, grime,
<)f the city’s luncheon-time—
-I‘laint of sirens, bleat of bells,
And most sudden, startling smells
As a frequent girl goes by
1 trenched in femininity.
\\ e walk silent. Roar and screech
■Shatter our attempted speech,
And the sharp and volleyed dust
Stings our skin. The purring lust
Of swirling traffic grips us then ;
We are prisoners of men
Sprawled embracing little wheels,
Drumming with impatient heels.
Ramming clutches with their feet,
.Miserably intent to beat
Some borne body close at hand,
Sounding horns in quick command.
("Roads arc made for wheels,” they shout,
"Stand aside, tioo-legged lout!”)
In this avenue of stone
Tree and flower are never sown,
And the sole high-colored sight •
Comes where, garlanded with light,
Windows glint and fabric gleams.
(I’axton’s. Soft Drinks and Ice-Creams,)
Two o’clock! The quarters fall
Lightly over yard and wall.
Now a sudden dart begins.
Each man rushing, for his sins.
Each man anxious, fixed of face,
Biting off a final phrase,
Each man speeding, at this knell,
To his individual hell.
MAORILAND.
QUENTIN POPE.
Autumn Morning—Frankston.
Brambles beside the way are touched with
gold.
Bed leaves flare out in patches toward the
sea.
Rain-sodden moss shows thick above the
mould
That heaps its richness under every tree,
And little paths among the tussocks winding
Gleam pale and silvery.
The sombre banksias stand all bowed and
blown,
Leaning away from the wind's rough
embrace,
Making of pointed leaf and pitted cone
Against the sky a fretted, ebon lace;
And everywhere the skimpy tea-tree fashions
Dim aisles, with tortured grace.
Scarlet and pink, the wild geranium leaves
Flame in the grass, as bright as parrots’
wings.
The climbing dock with rosy bunches weaves
Tangles of stems among the bushy things,
Where in the perfumed gloom of leafy
places
The flitting blue-w 7 ren sings.
Down on the beach the sands stretch bare
and white,
With every spoiling footmark w'ashed
away—
Wide reaches for the winds’ unleashed
delight,
Laced only with the flying threads of
spray,
When autumn seas are mountainous and
heaving,
Not slumb’rous as to-day!
So grey the sea, so grey and still and clear!
The weeds along the bottom moveless lie.
Between the sandbanks, coming near and
near,
A fishing-boat drifts indolently by,
Within the bows a tall man, stirless, standing
Limned dark against the sky.
High in the stern, his nets, heaped vaguely,
seem
To take large shape upon the leaden air,
That laps the sullen morning in a dream.
Grey boat. grey water! Strangeness
everywhere!
And some strange meaning, past all time,
enfolding
That strange man-figure there.
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


TISM
WHY SUFFER
DAILY TORTURE?
WHEN IN 24 HOURS YOU CAN TELL
HOW GOOD IS THIS 40-YEAR-OLD REMEDY
THOUSANDS of men and women are living, not
merely in daily pain, but in daily peril of heart
trouble due to Rheumatism in some form or
another. The chronic pain which we call Rheumatism
is due to excess of Uric Acid poisons and harmful
bacteria in the blood. The Kidneys are not carrying out
their work properly, and these poisons, instead of passing
out of the body, accumulate. So, in addition to agonising
pains day and night, vital organs such as the heart are
weakened in their action. This is your chief danger—
a danger you should not neglect.
A REMEDY with a WORLD-WIDE REPUTATION
There is a remedy that will act quickly and surely. It
is recommended the world over and tested in tens of
thousands of cases for over forty years. Your chemist
stocks De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, and sells
them to you under the guarantee of satisfaction or money
back.
Tens of Thousands Trust This Remedy.
From the first dose, within 24 hours, you will see
and know they are doing you good. Persevere with
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills and you will
banish your painful, dangerous symptoms. Many,
once bed-ridden, crippled by Rheumatism, in torture
day and night, have found real health again in this
40-year-old remedy. Ask your Chemist how good
it is. He knows the value of the prescription clearly
printed on every box, and can tell you why De
Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills can, will and
must do you good.
Almost every post brings written proof of the
value of this remedy, generally in cases where
everything else has failed. Here is just one of
thousands of such letters.
Mr. W. C. Everett, 150 Weston Road, Rozelle, Sydney,
N.S.W., writes: “For over two years 1 was troubled with
bad pains in the back, and sluggish feeling every morning.
I suffered very badly and could not lay on my left side or
back, and I was in constant pain. I tried lots of well-
known preparations until a friend, who was a sufferer from
Lumbago, told me that De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills were the only things that gave relief. I
decided to try them, and after taking only half a 4>ottle of pills I felt better. I am now in perfect
health. I am very thankful and tell other sufferers all about De Witt’s.”
Every box of “De Witt’s” bears the name clearly printed so that you cannot be
mistaken, and it is to your own health interest to be sure that you ask for and see
you obtain the genuine De Witt's Kidney and Bladder Pills. They are sold in two sizes
—3/tf and the larger, more economical size 6/6. There is no substitute and nothing
just as good.
(P
r
©
at
Si
w
G 7
AC
C
DeWITT'S
KIDNEY &
BLADDER
PILLS
THE REMEDY WHICH PROVES RESULTS.
it as she could never have admired any
work of art. When she once mastered their
contents she could read much between the
lines of the ledgers, the fluctuations of trade
and her father’s reactions to them. She
told herself again and again that papa was
always right. Fanny yielded to something
in her blood that she had held off in her
youth, she reverted to the type of her
family and found her own peculiar fruit-
fulness. She came in time to admire
William, she admired him as a good work-
man may admire a fine machine. William’s
work had the precision, accuracy and clean-
liness of the finest machine. He would
never have built up the business as the
Quartermaster had done; he lacked his
father’s width of vision and broad-chested
optimism; but he maintained and expanded
it. He had the money sense.
William had performed a fine feat of
organisation, nearly as difficult and far more
thankless than his father’s, at his end of
the goldfields victualling business. When
goods were scarce and labor almost unpro-
curable, he kept up supplies to the Quarter-
master somehow. He had astounding energy
for such an apparently dry and-prim young
man. Wherever advantage showed a
whisker he seized it. Foreseeing the short-
age of wheat, he pre-bought enough to
keep the mill in full work for months
to come, at a price that first amazed and
then disgusted the farmers. He did not
spare himself or anyone else. Even in
those difficult and erratic times, he always
kept his word and fulfilled his obligations.
On the waterfront, Fanny found herself
in the van of progress. The port grew,
almost, like one of those Japanese paper
plants that unfold in water, growing up
and blooming in a minute. In 1852 William
took his family in solemn procession to see
the Chusan, the first steamship to cross the
world to Australia ; a few years later steam-
ships were so common in the harbor that
even the urchins playing by the quays
hardly stopped their games to look at
them. In the ’fifties the famous wool-
clippers began to come out, and were an-
other nine-days’ wonder; then they, too,
became an everyday affair. Fanny learned
to take the ever-increasing business that
came to Hyde and Son’s as phlegmatically
as William did, and to look back on the
girl who had first come to the office in
1851 as a very crude, enthusiastic person,
hardly recognisable as herself.
Maud was in town again. The lease of
the house at Balmain was up in September,
1857, and Maud and the children had gone
into residence there for a few months.
Humphrey divided his time between Bal-
main and Camden. Maud burst into dinner
parties and balls, and soon showed Sydney
that her years in the country had damped
neither her taste in, nor her ardor for, dress.
Humphrey had made a fortune from his
wool and wheat in the gold rush, after
nearly losing one in the ’forties, and Maud
was not loath to spend it.
Maud came full sail down Windmill-street,
a veritable pyramid of apricot flounces
over the largest crinoline, and I ightest
bodice in Sydney. She was flanked by two
stout little boys in light check pantaloons
and peaked caps, her sons Jan s and
Charles, who flatly refused to rose ; ole the
grandparents after whom they b. 1 been
mimed. In the second row of the ca . alcade
were Francie, Fanny’s god-daughter now
thirteen years old and already elegant in
long frilled pantalets, tartan skirts and a
leghorn hat with streamers, and Maud the
younger, who exactly reproduced her sister’s
toilet, for those were the days when children
went in, sets. The nursemaid Louisa
brought up the rear with little Albert in
her arms. Only the infant Eugenia was
absent—for Maud by this time had amassed
six children find thought it was enough.
Windmill-street did not see a sight like
this every day. The passers-by stopped to
stare, and a sailor who had been espaliered
upon a sunny wall all the morning spat,
with the deepest appreciation.
Maud and her family bore down upon the
store. It offered the same blank rectangular
face to the street, the same lamp hung from
its wrought-iron gibbet.
“Here we are, my loves,” she cried. She
stood again in the cavernous doorway of
the store, before her the bright, remote
enamelled pictures of the sun-steeped
courtyard and blue water, and rising up
from the vast, dusky store the old, familiar
potpourri of tar and brine and a hundred
mellow mustinesses. The children clustered
around her. This store had loomed large
in their lives, and no reality could come up
to the pictures Maud’s tales had conjured
up in their minds.
Maud was embracing Fanny, as if this
was a reunion after long absence with her
as well as with the store.
“Oh, my love, I’ve brought the babies
to see the store. I simply had to come. La,
don’t you miss the whale oil? Is there a
boat in? I promised the boys a boat.
There, boys, what did I say? There’s a
boat at. the wharf. And there’s Jackie. I
do declare he has whiskers.
The old store heard Maud’s laugh again.
It. was as gay as when she flirted with
Benjamin there more than a dozen years
ago. It, made Fanny feel just a little like
a ghost.
William appeared.
“Uncle William will take you down and
show you the ships, now,” she said per-
suasively, “and we’ll go upstairs.”
“You’ll be disappointed in upstairs,” said
f ann>'; its quite changed.
j 6 parlor looked like an old junk-shop,
and Geoige had to clear a way lor Mauds
crinoline to get to the window in the
room that, used to be hers and Fanny’s.
Is this where you used to sleep,
mamma .
l° ve - ...
Did you look out of this window and
see Captain Hildebrand coming in with the
big tub?
“Why, yes, Francie, this very window.”
"Gh!
“I think, alter all, it was a mistake to
bring them,” her mother whispered. “But
Fanny, it was so romantic, wasn’t it?”
“I never think it’s romantic now.”
Ttie sisters were alone in the dismantled
loom that, had once been theirs. In the
moment, while the clatter of the children’s
feet gtil , sounded on the bare stairs, thev
meaßured the years that had passed, as
one might, measure the height of a child by
a mark on the wall. Fanny saw that for her
the years had been like a dead and leafless
branch that had suddenly blossomed again,
she, to whom nothing had happened, was
changed, and Maud, who had borne six
children, was essentially the same. They
smiled at one another, a little helplessly,
and turned to go.
(To be continued next week.)
Seeds.
The seeds of the weeds and flowers
Mingle in the warm air,
Hither and thither, together,
Blown anywhere.
Some with their beauty laden,
Others so poor indeed:
The wind itself it recks not
What’s in a seed.
To a rich man’s garden carried,
Or to a poor man’s plot.
A flower seed or a weed will
Find its life’s lot.
To bo uprooted sudden,
Or cared for to the last,
As a man in his life here
Where’er ’tis cast.
A life that’s rich in beauty,
Or that of a barren weed,
It is but whatever
Was in the seed.
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.
Moods.
(I)
Oh wherefore should we go from hence
And leave the pleasant day’s enthral?
Breathe no more, and our ev’ry sense
Down cast into the night’s dark pall?
And fall upon oblivion’s floor
Away from love arid flowers —a sky
That never knows the warm sun more?
Alas, I was not made to die!
(II)
There is wisdom in the hand
That wafts a shroud
Of night and calm, and lays the fragrant
cloud
On a sun-woven land.
There is pity in the thought
That we should reap
The cool and shade of an undreaming sleep,
Afar from the flames we have wrought.
TASMANIA.
ROBERT DALE.
Helen.
Love is a sword made sharp for pain;
It severs, though it does riot slay.
Oh, hear! shall I be loved again,
God of the Darkness and the Day,
Whose golden feet are shod with clay?
The lover strides across the world
(Or so it seems), bronze-girt and armed;
And then the singing shaft is hurled,
God-graven, pitilessly charmed,
And all the graceful hours are harmed.
Hours dear as children at the breast
That press for milk with small, clenched
hands;
Hours tender as beds spread for rest
When eastward, o'er the violet lands,
The marriage-moon, white-veiled, stands.
The quivering shock goes through the veins;
The little household gods, cast down,
Shatter like toys; across the plains
The tempest shakes its tresses brown—
I lot lightnings are one’s belt and crown.
Battle on battle! Kill on kill !
'Am I a quarry or a prize?
It is no madness of my will
That sets the deep light in their eyes.
Gan I rule tides that fall and rise?
Can I check arrows in their flight?
Can I hold stallions each from each
When in the spring they' rear and light?
Can I forbid the virgin beach
tlnto the sea-horse? Or beseech
Death, livid-greenish as decay,
To let the funeral meats invite
Vainly; the body, sad and grey,
Left quiet in its cloth of white
Through an unfestering, timeless night?
Oh. hear, shall I be loved again, _
Strong god who knows not pity's name?
Shall all the courts be paved with pain,
My tired breasts made hot and tame
As when the first armed lover came?
Hold passion from me. as men hold
A hunting leopard from the prey!
Like dead flowers in a box of gold,
Sealed from the Darkness and the Day,
I'd live, nor hear the chariot-way
Where Love’s wheels crush but do not slay.
N.S.W.
DULQIE DEAMER.


58
m
■
WESTING HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
r«E WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES X CHLKCM, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington
N. $.
Victorina Olllce—“Chnncery House,” 485 Boisrke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELRBH, SMITH & CO., LTI>., Adelaide, S.A.
THE DAILY MAIL
BRISBANE
Is logically the first big daily to select in Queensland for any advertising
campaign. It gets results!
It is always bright and is progressive to a degree.
And its net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to
be greater than that of any other daily in Queensland. Its companion
journal is
THE SUNDAY MAIL
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine. These two journals
give a “cover” in Queensland that is second to none. For rates and
other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE,
Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue is eagerly read by men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYLNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 223
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: ‘Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
CTe Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “ THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs . Gordon & Gotch, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone, MA3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
u
Advertise in e
Queenslander”
QUEENSLAND’S BRIGHT NATIONAL WEEKLY
PICTORIAL.
The “Queenslander” covers the whole of Queensland and
Northern Rivers of New South Wales. All Agricultural,
Farming, Grazing, Fruit and Sugar-growing areas are reached,
as well as Mining and Oilfields and Timber Districts.
HAS A SOLID “RIGHT - INTO - THE - HOME” CIRCULATION.
Published by The Brisbane Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
Courier Buidings, Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Rep.: Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 85007.
if any illustration in “THE BULLETIN’*
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
What's the matter with you ?
*
&3T
V\
*
i
suffer constipation unknowingly. Their
diminution is regular, but always a day or two late.
A DOSE AT NIGHT
WILL KEEP YOU RIGHT.
You don't quite know what
is the matter with you.
You're just simply
©EEfe'
You should watch carefully for this
condition. It tells of constipation*
and liver trouble. Headaches, dull
eyes, indigestion and biliousness are
further symptoms.
Act at once ! Take Beecham’s Pills,
the most effective method of conquer-
ing constipation. Purely vegetable,
they keep the bowels,
liver and kidneys
healthy and regular.
wmm
%\<L
CCC HAMS r*»4_» ,
iei.gouw.rHe. vm.c.
“WOMAN’S
*
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
TUESDAY—Price 3d
<r
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
ẃ
the Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. V. W. Margetts,
I 22 Flinders Street,
Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
701 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
w
0
o
0°
6
6 V
s®
?
5 e
9
?, rf,C®>
>2
AV
\,& s
.•’ , ft ,<l^ c6 o^,lV®’
.•* tl^tA'oo^


De Soto Six
CHRYSLER MOTORS PRODUCT.
e (Soto
mm
m
''/ v V)>
m
i mm
£\ V
L_i iFI
E
~pi n
I
So/o Six—4-Door Sedan.
Deserving of its record-
breaking success
Value speaks more plainly and unmistakably in to-day’s
motor-car market than it has ever spoken in the past.
There you can lay your finger directly on the mam reason for
the unprecedented, swift advance of the Chrysler-built De Soto
Six to its present heights of popularity.
Entirely aside from the fact of its Chrysler origin, and on its
own individual merits, the De Soto Six deserves all the wide-
spread preference which an eager public is conferring upon it.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
■
New South IVales . . Grenville Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Automobiles PtyLid., Melbourne
Queensland Stradbroke Motors, Ltd., Brisbane
South Australia .... Dominion Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Western Australia . . . Wentworth Motors, Ltd., Perth
New Zealand . New Zealand Motors, Ltd., Wellington
Tasmania Metro Motors Pty., Lid., Hobart
