

IP
■
,:3VS
m '
w.
hs»
*
HP
HIGH QUALITY
37 16
..
mmmm
BMHMiK "i
. ■ . '■■■'■■■'■■■
H
SUPER QUALITY
Hdxte Genuine> 'Without the Brand
The Bulletin
Sixty Pages of Good Stuff.
Vol. 50.—N0. 2562
Wednesday, March 20, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


\Y/RITE FOR THE LIBRARY CATA-
V LOGtJE AND LISTS on all subjects,
wl'ich will be forwarded on application, post
free, to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
ertrety
STAMMERING AND STUTTERING
CAN BE CURED IN YOUR OWN HOME
Send TO-DAY for particulars of "Perfect Sj >eech'** and copies of letters fioin
those who have been cured. Philip O’Brven Hoare, M.8.1.M.5c. (Londdn) (The
Stammerers’ Friend), Specialist in Public Speaking- and the Core of Stamn/ering
and SI uttering.
ADDRESS:
56 BRISBANE ARCADE, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
P.O.Bcx 1142 P.
/>
ahe hand that holds
■ the" VENUS"
u plans the World
The first rough suggestion—the skilful
and accurate working out. the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive effort, call for the use of VENUIS
PENCILS, Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the design of a simple household
article, the pencil is the first requirement: the
VENUS the first pencil.
17 Blacklead 1 egrees 6J3-9H sd. each -4/9 per dozen, Super Copying (Medium & Hard) 6d.
each -oh per dozen. Venus Copying (Meoium 4. Hard) 4d. each - 3/9 per dozen.
GRASP THE SHADOW ERE THE SUBSTANCE FADE
PIECE ME TOGETHER AND YOUR FORTUNE’S MADE.
TALE OF A LUCKY BLACK CAT—In Many Parts—Part One
o
u
o
0
Of
QO
LU
OrtG A
Of
CL
X 3
ru*«;v.
i I?
H
e/*j:
m
*7
e?
Behold me, King of the Luck Bringers! Mind
you, I’m not an ' ordinary Tom Cat that stays
out all night, so my scattered parts cannot be
attributed to the careful aim of an annoyed
citizen resenting a courtship with Tabby on
the Tiles. Among my family inheritance is
a trick of being able to pull myself to pieces
at a moment’s notice, without disturbing my
genius for luck-bringing. Indeed, the person
who can put me together again has all the
luck. I have specially offered my services to
the N.S.W. Fire Brigades Art Union to test the
skill of the good people to whom I have
brought fortune and good luck for several
years. , .
There is money in this. In fact, there is a
fortune. All you have to do is to piece me
together so as to form a complete picture.
First send an application and enclose 5/
for a book of 6 tickets. This book
of tickets will be sent to you, together
with a leaflet containing my scattered parts,
looking just like the parts that appear in
this advertisement. You can sell or keep the
book of tickets, making a shilling on the
transaction. Or you can sell five and keep
one. The tickets are for the N.S.W. Fire
Brigades Art Union for £lO,OOO in prizes, the
first prize being a Solid Gold Helmet valued
at £3OOO, the largest prize for a shilling ever
offered in Australia. You may win this.
Now comes your next piece of good fortune.
There will be a special distribution of £5O in
prizes among those who send back the lucky
black cat pieced together correctly. The
amount, will be distributed among those who
give the correct solution—First Prize £25.
Second Prize £lO. Third Prize £2, three
consolation prizes of £l, ten consolation
The Nine Lives of a Cat in 23 Pieces Pj} ze ‘ 10/ - and 2 »> consolation prizes of
5/. It is yours for the glad hand.
Register your name at once. In addition, if you retain the 6th ticket, you may win
the £3OOO prize, or any of the others. For six tickets you may win prizes valued at
over £5OOO, including a casket of diamonds, a diamond tiara, and seven motor cars
The closing date for the Lucky Black Cat Competition is Saturday, March 30, 1029.
It is the easiest piece of luck I have ever offered, and I have been in the luck
business since Noah let me and Tabitha out of the Ark.
Address all applications, with 5/ enclosed, to J. J. Neville. Hon. Secretary, Fire
Brigades Headquarters, 213 Castlereagh-’treet, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES~FIRE BRIGADES’ ART UNION
FOR HOSPITALS, AMBULANCES, AND CHARITY.
(Sanctioned by the Attorney-General)
£lO.OOO in Prizes. The most stupendous Prize List ever drawn up. Tickets: One
Shilling.
Six Tickets, 5/; Twelve Tickets. 10/; Twenty-five Tickets, £l.
A Ticket a Day Keeps Misfortune Away!
Send at once. State whether Mr.. Mrs., or Miss. Enclosed stamped envelope
for result slip. Art Union Drawn on June 1. 1929.
J. .1. NEVILLE. Hon. Secretary.
Fire Brigades Headquarters. 213 Oastlereaeh-strept. Svdnev. N.S.W.
u
Safe Food
ertrety
Food
ftesa. TBADB MASK.
Owing to constant re-
commendation and use by
medical men, and because
it is so easily digested,
Benger’s has become known
as “ the safe Food ’’ for In-
fants, Invalids and the Aged.
Send jar Benger's Booklet, poyt free.
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.,
350, Georse Street, SYDNEY,
i:
any illustration in ‘ IHE BULLETIN ’ takes your fancy, write
the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE
a
SOLD AT CHEMISTS, GROCERS
and STORES* Price If
The Great Insect Destroyer—
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY,
Melbourne, Agents.
V {«
The Red Page
Lala Fisher
Author of three slender sheafs of verse—
"A Twilight Teaching and Other Poems”
(1898), “Grass Flowering” (1915) and
“Earth Spiritual” (1918) Lala Fisher has
gone the way of Henry Lawson and many
another light of one of the most, interesting
phases in Australian literature; a phase
which, in spite of a few survivors, can now
bo \ dewed in a detached way as something
that has - past,, something that is part of
Australia’s steadily evolving literary tradi-
tion. An extremely critical judgment might
suggest, that, apart, from the pros© of Henry
Lawson and the poetry of Kendall, there
i* liitlo of that period which a generation
or so hence will be read for its literary
qualities alone. That as ii may be; there
are many others in the group whose work
has merit ol one kind and another, or who.
may linger through interest in their person-
alities and associations.
Lala Fisher, who is of the number, was
a. minor poet. Her verses are fugitive;
fragments' ol thought, expressed as they
occurred to her, There is no great com-
pelling force, no unity, no power. Occa-
sionally there is the beauty that is in
“Sanctuary”
Perchance the Might is but the magic closing
Of some vast flower in sleep,
Beneath whose mighty dome the earth’s reposing
Is infinitely, deep.
And maybe Dawn is but the blossom waking,
tVitli petals upward curled,
Xeatli which the outer glory, inward breaking,
To Day transforms the world.
1 here are slightly longer pieces in which
that, touch ol beauty haunts down -the lines;
but, at (lie most the literary qualities are
very slight, and frail. At her best she is
charming to read, but the poetic content
of all her work together is quickly absorbed.
Her muse walked very delicately:—
TTow light she is—
A fountain playing.
Shot through with sun
In simligHt spraying.
As light as this,
So light site is !
In this tripping mood her song is charming:
when she attempted to express more force-
ful thought she revealed her weakness:—
Murder of the unfortunate, down-hurled
trom every step to riches and success;
If smug souls were their secrets to confess
What stalking spectres would appal the world !
Which is what has been called exalted state-
ment of the commonplace.
It, is, however, in her associations and
m the personality that accounted for them
that Lala fisher stands away from many
others of the period. Henry Lawson, Louis
Becke, Rod Quinn and Hugh McCrae were
her personal friends. In Charters Towers she
was associated with one of the first Labor
newspapers in Australia, the Eagle. In
Brisbane she was associated with Steele
Rudds Magazine. In Sydney, with Mr.
Frank Hill, at present dramatic critic of
the Guardian, she bought the Theatre
Magazine for a fiver, and a few vears later
sold a part interest in it for £l5OO. She
was a teacher of swimming in Mount Mor-
gan and Rockhampton, and accounts of
her swimming feats when she was in Eng-
land were cabled to Australia. In England
she lived in luxurious circumstances, but
she returned to make her way unaided in
Australia because her Labor ideals revolted
against the conditions of England’s favored
few and their opposites. She was for a
time reader for a London publishing house,
cook at a Sydney hotel arM hostess at a
hotel at Medlow Bath. A volume of her
verse was published by Fisher Unwin, Lon-
don, and the London Observer said of it:
“Mrs. Fisher bids fair to become the poet
of Australia.” and also remarked that there
were passages that “far surpass anything
written Gordon.”
Mrs. Fislier’s associations and friendships
with Lawson and others gave her some in-
triguing and revealing letters, of which the
frill owing incomplete few Ur e fairly typical:
Dear Mrs. Fisher, —
•I' hear that my friend Rod Qninn is ill I don’t
want Rod to die. yet (for a, week or two) because ■
I’ve got my black suit in pop,—Yours,
lIKNRY LAWSON.
Rod is equally anxious about Henry
D’ear Mrs. Fisher, —
How is Henry Law-on? Well, I hope. Some day
Australia will have to answer a big impeachment
for the Way it has treated that gehius. I hope you
are well and happy—as you deserve to be. Kindly
remember me to deff and McKee Wright, and any
other of the gold-hearted fellowship who mav happen
to stray across your path,—Your sincere friend,
ROD QUINN.
In another letter Rod places his three best
-poems, “The Fisher,” “The Camp Within
the West” and “The Seeker,” the second
of which was “inspired by a visit to Henry
Lawson on the Blue Mountains.” In the
same letter Rod expresses the opinion that
'“considering the killing conditions under
which poety in Australia is produced, I
think that, the output up to date is little
less than heroic.”
Louis Becke borrows 10s. in one letter;
in another he states that, his best story was
“Hino, the Apostate,” and his best-paid
story “Qrea Gladiator”—lsoo words. £5O.
Arthur Albert Bayldon states that if Aus-
traKa had encouraged him he could have
done really good work; also that his sonnet
on. Marlowe earned him half a grown. Vic-
tor Daley describes one of his verses as
not "poetry, of course,” but. the “kind of
doggerel that, fetches the base crowd." So
they go on. The mine is not a big one.
but. it is full of interesting glitters.
Apart from these literary friends, Mrs.
Fisher had an even wider range of friend-
ships with theatrical people. The theatre,
perhaps, hold the strongest of her interests,
to the detriment, of her literary output.
The Australian Story
It has been considered worth while to
publish one Australiun-story anthology in
London and one in Sydney, both within the
last few months: so . the stories have
reached a presumably permanent and inter-
national interest and can be, perhaps use-
fully, if necessarily cursorily, examined in
their substance and general form.
In Australia wo have had a good run at
this game. Certain economic conditions
have compelled us to devote, until com-
paratively recently, all our fictional energy
to the development of the short, piece
acceptable to the papers providing our
living. I think that, so far as imaginative
letters is concerned, only the short piece
shows the half-century’s work. We have no
big novelist yet, ami no big poet, though
we have a great many inspired singers of
short songs. Posterity may decide that
Christopher Brennan is an exception to this
latter statement; but outside Australian
scholarship the exception is not made yet.
The jingoism that insists that we are artistic-
ally unique and wonderful defeats its own
purpose. In the time at. our disposal wo
have done a good deal; but I don’t think
the most defiant pro-Australian, if he settles
down to think about it, will discover that
we have done any more.
Except in the short story. In that, certain
circumstances have forced ns to bang
away at one form until wc have become
almost inadvertently more than ordinarily
good at it. Taking it in the round for a
moment, the quality that most storywriters
make their ultimate ideal is reality. One
passes through certain stages—of, attempted
technical perfection, of attempted dramatic
significance, of over-emphasis of charm, and
even of the writing of prose; but in the
end one reaches the sole desire to put the
hearts and minds of the people on the
paper. If that can be achieved, experience
shows that the other essential story-qualities
will be found in the pattern.
Henry Lawson, who is the Australian
leader in the story, wrote only what lu
knew and had generally experienced. His
spare austerity of diction made a throbbing
dramatic reality of a nothing, like the mere
arrival of Mitchell and his dog at the
metropolitan railway station. Lawson knew
no other way to write, could think in no
other way; but he was a genius who began
where a good many talented writers are
content, to cease. And we, subconsciously
or otherwise, learned and learn from him.
receiving the benefit of the short cuts his
genius imposed on him. This, I think,
added a very special circumstance to the
rough-and-tumble of the journalism which
■ forced such a volume of short-story work
upon Australian writers.
So in these anthologies we do not fine 1
shining examples of Arnold Bennett skill,
nor the robustious vigor of Kipling, the
grace of Galsworthy, the merciless biftemes.-
of Belloc, the intricate patterns and the
semitones of a score of English and Ameri-
can writers. But we do find a quality gener-
ally achieved only through the blood and
tears of work and sincerity: reality. Often
the plots are shoddy and sentimental, the
themes inflated arid portentous, the figures
shopworn; but the Lawson-influenced reality
is there, making the poorest of the stories
worth while. YV o are so accustomed by
now 1o this flavor in current. Australian
work that the fact was not specially men
tioned in the reviews of the books; but ii
is there, differentiating these an thn logic
from, in my experience, all others. Tin
people are there, alive; and the authors'
thoughts are there, clear and unobscured by
tradition of mannered diffuseness or form-
ality. If is a great, deal to be able to sav
of any two collections of stories in any
tongue.
But other thoughts spring from the ability
to say this much about two Australian
books. The Australian story has conquered
the unreality imposed elsewhere on a
traditionally artificial form. A few steps
farther might bring us within 000-ee of
conquering the form’s artificiality itself—
a few steps forward and an occasional look-
backward for reference. The patterri of life
is continuous.i It doesn’t cease and settle
itself permanently because of a significant
and dramatic sequence of events, as these
and all other short, stories seenvto establish.
It goes on and on. Drama and emphasis
seem to be our greatest structural help;
but sometimes I believe they tie our hands
before we begin. Looking backward, I
am reminded agriin that Mitchell arrived
at Redfern station without-drama and cer-
tainly without, emphasis; that Previous
Convictions most tmemphatically faded in
and out of the hut .on the river bank. Yet
I know these men and the influences that
governed their lives far better and more
permanently than the most real character
in these dramatic anthologies.
HILARY LOFTING.
(Cmtinucd on page 5.)


‘Truth in Advertising”—the foundation stone of honest
trading, laid by Anthony Horderns’.
Pumps, Com Mills and Shelters at
Anthony Horderns
Providing the Reliability
and Economy you rightly demand
Myers’ Power Pump, £2O.
The Myers Self-oiling “Bulldozer”
Power Pump. Ideal for general ser-
vice; is fully enclosed and back-
geared 5 to I.
No. 612 has brass-lined cylinder,
x 3 inches, with vacuum cham-
ber; I Jin. suction and discharge,
12x2 inch fast and loose pulleys,
brass piston rod. Capacity,
500 gallons per hour. Price, £2O
No. 613 has 3x4 inch cylinder.
Capacity, 1000 gals, per hour. £3l
No. 614 has 4x5 inch cylinder,
2000 gallons per hour. Price £43
No. 615 has 5x5 inch
cylinder. 3000 gallons
per hour. Price, £49
Centrifugal Pumps, £6 10s.
Centrifugal Single-stage Pumps;
standard belt driven. Casing
branches and impeller are of high-
grade cast iron.
Size.
14- x 1 inch.
1 \ x 1 5 inch.
2 x 1 f inch.
x 2 inch.
3 x 3 inch.
Type A.
£6/10/-
£7/10/-
£B/2/6
Type B.
£lO/15/-
£l2/5/-
£ 9/12/6 £l4/5/-
£l3/5/- £lB/10/-
E
mm
wm
im
am
m.
is®
(St
psffljp
No. 1 Kelly Duplex
Grinding Mill, £25/7/6
This is the ideal mill for the smaller user of crushed
grain. Has the famous Kelly Duplex Burrs,
shear cutters, and all latest improvements. It is the
only mill made with double or duplex grinders; these
have double the usual grinding surface, therefore it
does double the work in the same time. Pulley is 6in.
in diameter. The machine weighs only 3751 b., and
only 3 to 6 horse power is required to drive it. Capacity
for ear corn is 1 0 to 18 bushels per hour; oats 8 to 20
bushels per hour; shelled corn 8 to 25 bushels per hour.
Will grind cob and husks in one operation.
Price £25/7/6
Myers* Jack, £5 2 6
Myers’ Triumph Junior Jack, made
with machine-cut gear; back-geared
5 to I ; has 4 and 6 inch stroke and
12 x 2J inch pulley. Supplied with
wood rod to connect low-down
pumps, etc. Price £5/2/6
asztf&rjsa
Corn Sheller, £l3/10/-
John Deere’s Two-hole Corn
Sheller. Heavy angle steel frame,
suitable for operation by hand or
engine power. Capacity, 25 to 35
bushels per hour. Price, £l3/10 -
(Agricultural Department—Fourth
Floor. Freight extra on these goods.)
Use our “D.P.S.”
You can buy on our “D.P.S.” (De-
posit-Purchase System) if more
convenient. The cash price only is
charged, and there is no interest.
At the Royal Show
No visit to the Royal Agricultural Society’s Show will be complete
without an inspection of Anthony Horderns’ great Pavilion and
Agricultural Exhibit. There you will find displayed all the latest and
most effective productions to meet every need of modern life; and
you will see the pumps advertised here, actually working. Secure
a copy of our big free Show Catalogue.
rnorw MOMOCRnS* PAVtUIOCi
Anthony Horderns’
Pavilion, R.A,S. Show
Ground.
nun
Double-acting Pump, £4/15/6
Double-acting Force and Lift Pumps. Will
lift 2000 gallons per hour. Made to take
either 2in. iron pipe or 2in. hose. Has
connection to attach 1 in. hose in case
of fire, or for spraying. Will force water
about 50ft. from point of nozzle.
Price
£4/15/6
Force Pump, £4/18 6
Myers’ Cog New Gear Force Pump. Fitted
with brass-lined cylinder, brass-covered piston
rod and air dome held by four bolts. Can
be operated against 7 5-pounds pressure if
desired. This is thoroughly reliable. See it
in operation at the Show. Price, £4/18/6
*
ertrety
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AP'D SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.


• i
a
m
mu
n
A
A
New Chrysler “75” %oyal Seda »
The Scramble to Match
Chrysler Style,Performance and 141ue
The Chrysler owner
takes pride in the way
Chrysler constantly
provides wholly new,
distinctive and original
engineering develop-
ments.
He surveys with
quiet satisfaction the
scramble of competi-
tion to catch up with
Chrysler style, perfor-
mance and value.
An ever-growing
public, appreciative of
the greater values in
Chrysler, bestows its
marked approval upon
Chrysler’s originality—
upon the new Chrysler
style which re-styles all
motor cars—and the
new performance
which out-Chryslers
even Chrysler.
And because people
everywhere realise
that all these features
in Chrysler cannot be
had in other cars that
sell for a great deal more,
it is easy to understand
why Chrysler’s great-
est production is taxed
to the utmost.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales Larke, Neave & Carter Ltd., William Street, Sydney
Victoria Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Collins Street, Melbourne
Queensland Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane
South Australia O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide
West Australia William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth
Tasmania Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart
New Zealana Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington
New Guinea w. R. Carpenter & Co. Ltd., Rabant
Chrysler
c 101


ertrety
Our
style
observer
reports
“Best
dressed
Londoners
favor
2 Button
Sac Suits
of
light
Worsteds’’
David Jones’ have Men’s Sac Suits made
from high-grade English Worsteds, silk
lined and modelled on English lines. Two-
button styles with step or “D. 8.” lapels.
Fancy fawn, grey and brown tones.
Prices .. £9/9/-, 19/ I S/-> £lO/10/-.
DAVID JONES’
Castlereagh, Market, Elizabeth Streets
Branch Men’s Shop, opposite G.P.O.
War Stories
On looking through the Christmas
numbers of some of the leading Australian
weeklies that have reached me in Berlin,
I have been struck by the fact that in the
majority of them the war or war hero
was brought in, either as the main theme
Or as a sub-theme. It was especially inter-
esting to me because of the different attitude
towards the war of both people and writers
here.
We want to remember it; Germany wants
to forget it. For us it is and always was
an adventure, a Viking foray. For them
it was disillusionment, disappointment and
the death of an empire. It was our pro-
motion and their retrogradation. Thus it
Cannot be wondered at that it is not a
subject for light literature for the German,
and that we glorify it and still treat it
as one of the ancient wars, where there
was chivalry and gallantry, and not whole-
sale slaughter, while they look on it as
brutal and obsolete. Partly for these rea-
sons the war failed to produce in Germany
any outstanding work of literary importance,
and even in England the result hardly made
the war worth while.
There is, however, another reason for our
divergent views. The Great War for Ger-
many was only the latest of many wars,
many of which had been fought on her
territory; Germany had been united, in
fact, by wars fought in the last 50 years.
For us the Great War was our first time
under fire, excepting the Boer skirmish; it
was our transformation from a careless boy
into manhood. Now we are like the little
boy who has had his first fight and victory
and has a feeling of warmth towards his
conquered enemy for having given him the
opportunity of showing his prowess, and
cannot stop talking about it.
The disillusionment and distress which
immediately preceded and followed the
Armistice and Revolution, finding a climax
in the inflation period, made the military
uniform in Germany almost as disrespected
as it was respected before the war, which-
resulted in a continual stream of books
and plays ridiculing soldiers, and treating
war as something not glorious and heroic,
but horribly vicious and futile. The
General appeared on the revue stages as a
comic figure, while believers in the old
regime watched with bated breath and
waited vainly for the roof to fall.
Sometimes the hero of a play or book is
a soldier, but if so he is only a mouthpiece
to rail against war. The Communists and
Socialists, especially strong in Berlin, give
great support to these plays. In fact, there
are theatres which have only such plays,
theatres which produce the works of the
“Young School” of dramatists, notorious
for its antipathy to red tape and authority.
Nothing is sacred to these dramatists. They
pull down the gods of their fathers unmerci-
fully.
There have been whole libraries written
as to why Germany lost the war—books
of accusation and excuses, of disillusion-
ment and pessimism—but in all there
is lacking that element of bards singing of
ancient heroes and wars of chivalry. This
element is found in much contemporary
Australian literature, especially in the short
story, perhaps because it is such an easy
way out of character delineation to say
that the man is -a, war hero with the
V.C. It is, however, totally lacking in
German literature. The different attitudes
are quite comprehensible. The Germans
suffered much more than we did in Aus-
tralia, and more personally. And so while
our idea of war—especially that of the post-
war generation—is the picture of Anzacs
scaling cliffs against odds, like heroes of old,
the German idea is that of a soldier moan-
ing on the ground, with half his body
blown away.
R. S. PANTON.
Authors v. Reviewers
In the case of Dale Collins, J. B. Dailey
and another v. Reviewers, heard ex parte
in the Red Page, the plaintiffs—or is it the
defendants?—have won hands down, appa-
rently. On the strength of their evidence,
they certainly deserved to win. They showed
that those furtive creatures the reviewers
were fickle and vacillating; that they not
only contradicted each other but them-
selves. Where one would find in a parti-
cular book the 89 virtues of the cocoanut,
others found none; and both sides quoted
the same passages to prove it. From these
facts Mr. Collins deduced that the re-
viewers who were unfavorable to him were
prejudiced, and suffered from that inferi-
ority complex which generates the ignoble
vice of envy.
As one of the loathly breed, I am in-
clined to think that the explanation is
much simpler. The chances are that some,
if not most, of the flagrant discrepancies
in the critical verdicts on the books were
due to the probable circumstance that half
the reviewers didn’t read them. Or if they
did, they read them as a transcontinental
tourist studies the countiy—by occasional
glances out of the window. Like authors,
reviewers are human—all too human, some-
times. They are also busy men, and their
editors may expect them to express informed
opinions on anything from a dozen to twenty
volumes weekly. If they find the trans-
continental tourist method of getting across
this expanse of literature, three-quarters
of which probably consists of mental salt-
bush, while the remaining quarter may or
may not contain a forest giant, it is hard to
blame them. And the publishers, who
understand their reviewers perfectly, do
everything to make their mercenary jobs
easy.
Now, I have just read Mr. Dailey’s latest
book, Max Flambard (John Long;
Dymock’s). I may say straightway that
I read every word of it; but if I had not
known something of Mr. Dailey as a writ-
ing man I possibly wouldn’t have. To begin
with, the publisher has equipped it with a
misleading jacket. It is well enough drawn,
but all it suggests to me is that here is
another writer who has driven the limousine
of his fancy along the well-graded Minx’s
Highway already travelled by a thousand
Goulds and a million or so Garvices.
One of the most telling sections of the
book is the description of life in one of
those appalling suburbs which lie between
Botany and Balmain, in Sydney. It is done
with great sureness. Mr. Dailey moves in
this environment with perfect freedom—
with quite as much ease as he turns the
pages of Debrctt or opens the doors of
aristocratic English drawing-rooms. Nothing
is scamped— not even the blowflies. It is
a fine piece of realism. But it wouldn’t
look well as the subject for a jacket illus-
tration.
In addition, there is a publisher’s syn-
opsis. Any reviewer who couldn’t concoct
a plausible critique from that should take
to police-court reporting. Yet it is as mis-
leading as the jacket. It gives the impres-
sion that this is a thoroughly conventional
novel. Actually what Mr. Dailey has en-
gendered is a quite penetrating study, with
Australia as the subject, of a universal
human failing—snobbery. Everybody in
the book is a snob or is engaged in exploit-
ing the weakness—including the hero. Some-
times the picture appears to be a trifle
overdrawn—one threatens to tire of these
ignoble people, dukes, countesses and
butchers, all engaged on the absorbing prob-
lem as to whether white ties should go
with dinner jackets or the class equivalents
of those momentous questions. But gradu-
ally and skilfully Mr. Dailey lifts his theme
out of the easy rut of simple satire and
turns snobbishness into a valuable principle
—almost a vital virtue. At any rate it
saves his hero from going the mucker which
a malign destiny evidently intended for him.
Having made it quite clear to Mr. Collins
and Mr. Dailey why their works are liable
to critical misconstruction, I should like to
say a word about the technique of “Max
Flambard.” It is not only a clever study,
but a very interesting bit of drama. It
would be made more interesting if it weren’t
for a little trick of the narrator’s. He gets
you excited about the thoughts and fates of
his characters—at the end of chapter IV,
for instance. Then chapter V opens like a
special article for a daily newspaper on life
on a transoceanic liner. Sutely it would
be more effective if one saw these sub-
sidiary characters through the eyes of one
principal or another. This trick is dropped
towards the end because Mr. Dailey, in
spite of himself, has become his own delight-
ful feminine creation, Pamela, as well as ’
his hero, Flambard. He has forgotten Mr.
Dailey and his opinions, and the result is
a notable gain in the depth of his picture.
M.G.S.
A Satchel of Books
An Anthology of School , edited by C. S.
Holder (Bodley Head). This well-filled book
holds the principal English public school songs,
verse touching upon “schools big and little,”
upon visitors, holidays, “coming and going,”
old boys, “retrospect,” schoolmasters, lessons,
education, prayer, “the-lighter side,” and
indeed all facets of the jewel that glitters
in the memory when anyone thinks of
' school.” Nearly all the great poets are
represented, and there are others present—
obscure ones or little known—who are even
more interesting in this setting.
The Joys of Forgetting, by Odell Shepard
(Allen and Unwin). One essential of the
great essayist not mentioned by Walter de
la Mare in his introductory eulogy is
that he must not only be able to put
forward his personality engagingly, but
have an engaging personality to put for-
ward. Mr. Shepard’s is engaging enough;
in fact, it is delightful, but it has not the
stamp of greatness. That, however, is
judging his work on the very highest
standards, and perhaps that is unfair. Ilis
essays are beautifully : written entertainments.
Daisy, Princess of Pless (Murray). As
feminine as a scented crepe-de-Chine hand-
kerchief, this autobiography of the Mary
Theresa Olivia Cornwallis-West, who, when
little more than a schoolgirl, married Prince
Henry of Pless. and saw one of her sons go
out to fight against her native country in
the war. Her most intimate picture, of King
Edward is of him calling, in a cab, at the
wrong address, and being told by an old girl,
“Go away—you’re drunk.” She has no
illusion about her marriage. “I was just
bought,” she says.
Wilson's Sydney and Suburban Street
Directory, 1929. Sydney is a large, ramb-
bling and inconsequential sort of city, so
cluttered up with gullies it would cost a
lot more than it seems worth to road or
bi idge that there s a paucity of cross streets
to link up the radials. A chart is needed if
one is to get, say, from Manly to Fig-tree
Bridge, or from Paddington to Balmain, by
the shortest and cheapest route. The Wil-
son Directory has for years been filling this
want, and each year, as suburbs expand and
new streets spring into being, its maps and
street-lists are revised. This year’s edition
is, by all the checks that can be applied to
it by one who for some years has made the.
exploration of Sydney a hobby—aided by
Wilson’s—as accurate and as up-to-date
as its predecessors.
Answers to Correspondents.
So notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken 0/ communications insufficiently stamped,
erne and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volnn •
tartly submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
\\ .S.A.; “Just a little week.” Spelling
of last word deplorable. .. .T.St.L.: Not quite our
meat... .A.K.: We’re surprised at you—and you a
Maorilander, t 00!... .Lena: Your touch is not sure.
. ...H.P.: “The taste of green fruit, the pain of
it after,” is your one really moving line... .E. 8.:
No evidence that you have felt any of the things
expressed 1.A.K.: Little there P.R.: We don’t
think much of it... .M.R.L.: One more crash for
the “Birdmen”.... Jaques L.: Ah, that reminds us
—we forgot to empty the garbage-tin this week....
E.E.: It. doesn’t ring* true... .G.C.R.: “The Still
Lagoon” is another of those great empty spaces. . ..
E.V.: Both hopeless.... H^J.: So far, no g00d....
E.G.M.: Both weaklings....L.: We’d express it with
the aspirate.... P.C.: An unvCelcome “Memory”....
S.H.C.: “Clear—freer.” You are ambitious !....
H.E.F.: We don’t like your “Sheila”... .Q.T.: Idea
looks tarnished. .. .G.McL.: Competent enough, but
that’s all. .. .E.8.A.: “Four Hundred and Sixty Miles
Through Gippsland” merits half an inch:—
We greatly enjoyed unpacking our load,
And staying there by the side of the road.
So peaceful it was ’neath the gum-tree grove,
As we cooked our food on the primus stove.
... . E.P.: Neither will do. .. .P.L.H.: We have lived,
we have loved, and we have read your verse.. . .
M. : The poet is right; it is true subjunctive
mood. “Shalt” must be understood as an omitted
word immediately before “have.” “Ti 11.... thou
[shalt] have paid thy utmost blessing”... .P.M.:
“Hymn Before Battle” reads more like a lament
after bottle... .Wareta: You're not the only one
who has made a drought of “Drought”... .G.C.8.:
Please, do not forward the remainder... .C.J.: Shows
promise.... M.V.S.: A depressing morsel.... Dugan :
Amateurish.... M.C.T.: Not quite.... Spanner: No
gold in it... .W.J.H.: A case for specialists in psy-
chiatry. ... K.R.: Gone to rest in the basket....
N. : Home it r 0115.... W.S.: Nicely written and
pretty sentiment—it would have pleased gran’ma.
. ...R.L.P.: Idea seems familiar T.R.: Rejected
not because we doubted j our facts, but because the
subject wasn't worth all that space.... Pills: Too
long and too technical.. . .S.E.: Those chaps occupy
too much space as it is. .. .Taratia: Doesn’t suit....
F.A.: You might place it. elsewhere. ... E.R.A.:
Miles 0ff....L.L.: About as solid as an air pocket.
. ...C.H. (Idaho, U.S.A.) : True, but not interesting
enough here. ... V.G.W.: Close. .. . D.J.R.: “Words
that hover in space,” as you neatly put it....
C.V.T.: Crockery ware.... Wols: Verse poor, but
congratulations on handwriting 1. MacT.: Words,
words, words.... T.T.H.: Your bone is poor picking.
.... L.S.: Detective novelette ; style prolix. .. . E.E.C.:
Only a neck away... ..J.M. M.: Sorry, can't find a
place... .S.C.: Local color too primary.... F. 0.:
Condensation overdone... .E.S.: A tearful sort of
humor.... H.P.: We admired that “sweating blood-
filled frame”.... D.P.: “I sweep the plain-
land 'with the eye.” Admittedly it some-
times needs sweeping.... Pendragon: Gently
slaughtered... .Margaret A.: The basket groaned
in its resigned manner... .D.B. : Oh, so
slight!... .A. R.G.: Sepd it to “Thee”... .N.K.:
Most immature A.M.: Gone west Russet:
Duly rejected... .L.A.: Makes us feel like changing
the heading of this column to “And swears to Cor-
respondents”. .. .N.F.: Try a Children’s Section
somewhere. ... R.S.: “The Sea” had its customary
effect upon u 5.... A.S.D.: “Sunset”—moonshine,
- rather....L.V.H.: On those samples we can’t
encourage you... . J.P.J.: “When the Drought King
Holds Ilis Sway” the country is barren —and not only
the country.... E.F.: Hearty congratulations on
attempt to rhyme “hush” with “dusk”... .Wade:
\ou begin a par.: “Those who would belittle the
talkie and its potentialities fail to take into con-
sideration that nebulous uncertainty, the future, with
its awe-inspiring evolution,” etc. How would you
begin an epic? J.M.: “The T.onely Tramp” hereby
joins the world’s greatest multitude... . E.J.H.: Un-
fortunately it says nothing... .Carnac : H0110w....
L.: 1 our married man who forgets he has a wife
is a supreme effort of Action. .. . A.P.: “Clad in a
long pink wrapper and a pair of mules,” was she?
It’s wonderful what they wear (and don’t wear)
nowadays. ... E.N. and H.M.: You litter your stage
with corpses.... E.M.: One extract:—
In sterner paths of duty, quite bereft of love and
beauty,
My faltering, erring footsteps must daily, hourly
tread,
Walking slowly, often blindly, whilst I bow my
lowly head.
He should really make that kitchen doorway a bit
higher. .. .V.C.R.: Your idea that Australians cannot
write literature because they are too Anglo-Saxon
duly noted... .R.R.: Grow what you like, wheat,
wattle or whiskers, but don’t get excited. .. .C.G.:
Your line of study is unusual. Try “Historical
Studies in Philosophy,” by E. E. lioutrou; “In
Jacob Boehme’s School,” by H. B. Shepheard; or
“Studies in Jacob Boehme,” by A. J. Penny. Boehme’s
writings were translated into English by John
Sparrow and John Ellistone in tin: seventeenth
century.... Dig: There were approximately 360,000
Australian war gratuities; the total amount paid was
£27,424,317... .Hillman: Cry of a soul in agony:—
A grand old game it used to be when Bonnor and
Lyons played,
And Graham and old Joe Darling were chaps that
never delayed.
But now! Good Lord! They ought to he pinched
for loitering, every one,
These loafers who take five minutes or more to
make a measly run!
G.0.A.: The w.p.b. won E.M.E.: Your witch
doctor casts no spell. .. .Joan : Fell with a thud. ...
A.S.: Not even the lady with the buttermilk com-
plexion can persuade us.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.P.: If they are meant to be bags of cement, they
are not bad....J.5.: A cactus bush has evidently
inspired you E.A.W.: Crude libel on a Salvationist
—and this paper has a kindness for the S.A
G.M.: We like neither the flappers nor their language
C.A.M.: Poor stuff F.G.8.: Feeble jest;
feebler drawing G.H.: Lifeless M.S.: Ingenious
idea; can’t you dress it up better?... .A.S.: Wait
until you have learned to draw J.J.: Useless.


f
■>
• \
m- '
IP ♦ 3 4
w
€-■ mm
■j '
x • .
# til 1
--i
w
y , l
x
m
m
vi
n
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


ertrety
Vol. 50.—N0. 2562.
March 20, 1929.
’POSSUMING.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
8H George Street, Sydney.
Victoria: Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 21/9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 1,5.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To ANY ADDRESS OVERSEAS: 12 months, t, 1 10s. i
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies.—Commonwealth, New Zealand and
mji: l()oz., Id. United Kingdom: l/oz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additionalJoz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
w itis/i I ossessions and U.S.A.: Jhoz. or part thereof.
hlsewhere, 2ozld.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED page literary ARTICLES . . 2, 5
Lala Fisher .. .. 2
THE AUSTRALIAN STORY .. .. ~2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. .. 5
A LEASON DRAWING . . . . - 7
EDITORIALS 8i 9
Debts and Taxes .. .. 8
THE WASTE LANDS OF BRITAIN . . . . 8
HOSPITALS AND SWINDLES 0
A PERCIVAL CARTOON
POLITICS (with caricatures) .. .. .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. ~ u
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. .. 14
POVERTY POINT " u
“WIIAT PRICE CHARITY?” by Scorfield !! 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. i 7
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS . . . . . i 8 ‘ 2 0
Greater J. D. Williams Co. .. 18
QUEENSLAND NATIONAL PASTORAL CO. 18
CARLTON BREWERY ]8
D. & W. CHANDLER, LTD 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 23, 25
Free Service Department 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 29
PRIZES FOR FARMERS 28
SMOKE-OH 32
“A Rogue in Amber” .. ..34, 51, 53
PEN AND PICTURE 37
NEW MOVIES AND TALKIES .. ..37
SPORTING (Illustrated) .. .. ..39, 41, 42
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 44
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 40
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP .. .. 49
VERSE 53, 58
Two Complete Stories
“JETTISONED,” by Vance Palmer . . 55, 57
“ONE IN A MILLION,” by R. Vansittart 57, 58
ffie'fyuHeiz/ri
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 20, 1929.
DEBTS AND TAXES.
Some rather belated figures for the year
which closed on June 30, 1928, show that
the loan expenditure of the six States on
public works and public frauds and delu-
sions was £44,645,082. This is noteworthy
as being the worst on record; the next
worst was £37,178,131 in 1921. Queensland’s
loan outgoings for the year were £9,297,885,
which was so much its greatest effort that
it beat the next greatest, that of 1920, by
about £4,500,000. W estralia blewed
£4,680,260, also its wildest proceeding to
date; the previous worst was a good
£550,000 short of this worst. South Aus-
tralia’s total was £6,762,100. It has ex-
ceeded that amount once, in the year to
June, 1927, when it dissipated £8,942,018.
N. S. Wales charged £14,407,619. to pos-
terity, which was only a trifle below the
record—£l4,7ol,o2B in 1921. About Vic-
toria’s expenditure of £9,119,441, this nega-
tive praise may be uttered, that the position
was worse in three previous years—l92l,
1922 and 1927.
Tasmania presents the one fairly bright
spot in the dismal category, as will be
shown in the following table:—
Loan Expenditure Per Inhabitant in 1927-28.
Westralia ..£ll 18 7 | N. S. Wales ..£6 0 1
South Australia 11 14 11 | Victoria . . 5 4 9
Queensland .. 10 610 1 Tasmania .. 115 0
If the island State can get through with
that modest expenditure (modest for Aus-
tralia) there should be possibilities for its
neighbors if they cared to. try. Certainly
Tasmania is a small place, but the same
may be said in a modified degree about the
south-west corner of Westralia, where the
population is located and where the loan
money is spent. It contains roughly one-
ninth of the State by area and eighteen-
nineteenths by population, and the ne-
glected Beyond costs so little for works
as to be hardly worth a mention. Yet Wesi-
ralia is at one end of the loan-expenditure
list and Tasmania at the other.
The latest Federal “Quarterly Summary”
gives this condensed account of the situa-
tion :
Loan Expenditure of the States.
Year Total
to June, 1928 to June, 1928
Railways and Tramways .. £14,939,587 £326,737.742
Telegraphs and Telephones Nil 3,233,385
Water Supply, etc. .. 5,073,382 105,402,241
Harbors, Rivers, Roads,
Bridges, etc. .. .. 5,783,805 69,258,705
Land Purchased and Loans
to Settlers . . . . 10,482,679 85,435,936
Public Buildings . . . . 1,902,423 24,463,728
Defence Nil 2,098,168
All Other (possibly too
vague to be specified) . 6,463,206 88,038,485
£44,645,082 £704,668,390
Of last year’s railway expenditure more
than half is in N. S. Wales, and recent
additions to the N.S.W. railway system have
a bad habit of paying no interest and
only about half working expenses. Three-
fifths of the purchase of land and loans to
settlers is Queensland expenditure, which is
a new and sudden departure for the State.
This has never been a lucky item, and
neither have public buildings or “All Other.”
The rise of the States’ interest bill and the
more or less corresponding rise in the
amount levied in direct State taxation to
pay the bill may be illustrated as follows:
Interest
and Charges Direct Taxation
on State Debts. by States.
1916-17 .. £14,310,934 £8,998,077
1922-23 . . 23,024,293 18,739,558
1927-28 .. 31,070,847 27,402,118
The interest bill grew by nearly 17 millions
and the taxation by over 18 millions, and
there were additions to railway charges
besides. So there is cause for every sort
of suspicion that the £350,000,000 borrowed
at a heavy price in the 11 years was mostly
put into very ill-paying investments, one
reason being that good investments for such
a preposterous sum were unfindable. Still,
it provided highly-paid and not very active
work for many people, who need to be pro-
vided with another disastrous job when the
old one is finished. As regards the indirect
benefits, 1928-29 was reckoned a fairly good
year, yet the wheat harvest, which is re-
garded as a sort of test, was smaller than
in 1915-16, or 1924-25, or 1926-27. Some
preliminary returns dealing with N. S. Wales
indicate that the manufactures of the Ma
State have taken a quite unusual turn for
the worse, two possible explanations being
the constant increase of taxes and of wages.
Also there was a slump in immigration dur-
ing 1928.
The situation would be radically im-
proved if the Commonwealth Parliament
were to enact a very drastic prohibition of
non-essential imports. One that reduced
the influx of foreign goods by £45,000,000
below the figure of 1927-28 would
obviate an immensity of oversea bor-
rowing and supply a vast amount of local
employment, unless the latter good work
was spoiled by Arbitration Courts and strike-
makers. Under the old regime it would
have been possible for an individual State
to burst financially, and for the Central
Authority to express polite regret but dis-
claim all responsibility, after the United
States fashion before the Civil War. But
under the pew financial agreement the
Central Authority has taken the responsi-
bility in a general and casual way, and it
seems unable to prevent the same swelling
to grotesque dimensions. As the putting
of paper-'money savings into a sinking
fund won’t help the overseas liability in
the least, it is up to the Bruce-Pagh to
review the situation.
THE WASTE LANDS OF BRITAIN.
JOHN DALLEY.
Mr. Lloyd George may not be able to
command success for his “Back to the
Land” policy at the coming British elec-
tions, but, like another famous character,
he will deserve it. Nothing strikes a visi-
tor who tours the British countryside so
forcibly these days as the huge areas which
would be farmed in most of the Continental
countries, but which, in the United King-
dom, are used as pleasances of one sort
or another.
Take any of the great roads out of Lon-
don—the one, say, which is most in Aus-
tralia’s mind at the moment; that which the
King traversed recently on his way to Bog-
nor. From the time the motorist leaves
Esher (whose chief industries are Sandown
racecourse and the many golf courses that
are to be found within a radius of five or
six miles) he begins to pass private parks,
great and small (all, of course, unculti-
vated) ; lovely stretches of heath land
(also entirely uncultivated); more race-
courses and more golf courses. The wall
which encloses the park of Lord
Leconfield’s vast place, Petworth House,
begins many miles on the London
side of Petworth village, and the southern
boundaries of this estate are hardly reached
when the black and white gates of Laving-
ton Park (the home of Lord Woolavington,
the whisky nobleman) appear. On the other
side of the river, as far as the eye can reach,
are woods in which pheasants and other
game birds are preserved, and then comes
Goodwood Park. This is the property of the
Duke of Richmond and Gordon. It
stretches practically to Chichester, and com-
prises Goodwood racecourse (one of the
best and most beautiful in the world, but
only used once a year); a famous golf
course; and many thousands of acres of
woods (in which game is preserved), park
land and down country. Farming as it is
understood in the northern European coun-
tries only begins on this route south of
Chichester, which is to say half a dozen
miles from Bognor and the sea.
That this kind of thing constitutes the
rule in England and Wales (the waste con-
dition of Scotland, which, apart from its
cities and towns, is practically one large
grouse moor, is too notorious for discussion)
is disclosed by official statistics. There are
37 million acres in the two countries. Four
million consist of cities and towns contain-
ing inhabitants who are only too anxious to
become consumers of home-grown farm
produce. There are two million acres of
woods, plantations, copses, spinneys, etc.,
most of which are used for sporting pur-
poses. Five million acres of mountain and
heath are described as “rough grazing land.”
The rest is open country, and it contributes
the 10 million acres from which all crops,
other than grass, are raised in England and
Wales.
I spoke about the waste areas of the U.K.
to dozens of Britons of every shade of
political opinion in England last year, and
all who had any views on the subject agreed
that two factors were responsible. In the
first place, sport. Golf, cricket, shooting,
racing and hunting cause millions of acres
of good country to be immobilised, not for
a few weeks, or even months, in the year, but
in perpetuity. There are more golf courses in
any one of the counties that surround
London than there are in the whole cf
France. The other factor is plain careless-
ness and incompetence. A century ago
foreigners came to England to learn high
farming. Now, to quote from a speech
made recently by Lord Bledisloe, Parlia-
mentary Secretary to the Ministry of Agri-
culture :
Grassland, apart from rough grazing, con-
stitutes two-thirds of the whole of the culti-
vable area of Great Britain. Much of this is
unfarmed, unmanaged, unfertilised and un-
drained. At least seven per cent, of the whole
of our laud is in a water-logged coudtiion. It
is growing steadily worse, and both as regards
farmers’ surface drainage and more exten-
sive arterial drainage a good deal will have
to be done if we want the whole benefit which
can be derived from scientific research.
A bored claim is sometimes made that
Britain’s millions of unused acres are use-
less anyhow; that nothing can be done with
them. The case of Denmark supplies the
answer. Its soil is notoriously poor, and it
has a seven months’ winter of great severity.
The population is barely 3,500,000.
Yet Denmark has 46 cows per 100 inhabi-
tants against England’s 10; 88 pigs against
England’s 8. The export of butter, bacon
and eggs is larger than that of any other
country, and 30 per cent, of the people live
solely on agriculture. Denmark is able to
show these results because it has no sport
craze to speak of and no big estates; be-
cause it has over 200,000 small holdings,
and because the papers do not say “The
Earl of Blank has gone to his country
seat,” but “Count Blank has gone to his
farm.”
There is plenty of land to be farmed in
the United Kingdom, by consent both of
those who oppose and those who support
Mr. Lloyd George. What seems to be lack-
ing is the will to get on to the splendid
soil which is lying idle, and the knowledge,
which the Briton once practically monopo-
lised, of what to do when he does get on it.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Lawless Law-makers.
The Legislative Assembly of New South
Wales stands upon a bad eminence. It is
the one Parliament in the Empire that
demonstrably lacks self-respect and the
ability to preserve a semblance of dignity.
To parallel scenes recently enacted in the
Macquarie-street chamber one must go back
to Mark Twain’s account of proceedings
in the Austrian Diet—and that account was
doubtless grossly exaggerated. The Chair
has been persistently and contemptuously
flouted; uproar and disorder have broken
out at frequent intervals; scurrilous per-
sonalities have disfigured almost every
debate.
All that has been done about it is to
suspend three obscure Labor members for
a week. Two had, under the instructions
of their bad-tempered leader, Mr. Lang,
refused to act as tellers when called upon
to do so by the Deputy Speaker; the third
had defied the Speaker in a similar manner.
To show their contempt for the Speaker and
the rules of the House the Laborites, immedi-
ately following the suspension of their
comrades, systematically refused to act as
tellers. Fifteen members refused this duty,
and Mr. Lang challenged the Premier to
move for their expulsion.
The challenge was not accepted, but it
should have been. Mr. Bavin, as leader
of the House, has set an example of courtesy
and restraint, even when assailed with the
most bitter and venomous personalities,
but he cannot shed all responsibility for
the deplorable condition into which the
Parliament of his State has fallen. It is
the duty of every member, and especially
that of the head of the Government, to
uohold the authority of the Speaker and of
the rules which the Speaker administers.
If that duty is not recognised, Parliamentary
government becomes impossible. A stronger
and less forbearing man than Mr. Bavin
would have moved for the suspension of
every offending member for the remainder
of the session, and taken steps to ensure
that they forfeited their salary during the
period of suspension. There would have
been a pitiful howl of martyrdom, but the
effect would have been salutary.
In present circumstances the Parliament of
N. S. Wales provides a congenial setting
only for men with very thick skins and a
capacity for brutal invective. Persons not
so equipped, no matter how great their
ability to render public service, are like
fish out of water, and that is perhaps the
reason why the average standard of intelli-
gence amongst N.S.W. Parliamentarians
grows lower in each successive Parliament.
Gresham’s Law, that bad money drives out
good, operates also in the political sphere.
The irruption of the hoodlum and the
bully means the disappearance of the thinker
and the statesman.
Flogging Sambo.
The Soviet Government at Moscow has
resolved that the country needs cheaper
production and more of it, and it has in-
structed the bosses of factories and mines
to enforce the utmost rigors of the law
against workers who stay away without leave
through drink or other causes, who loaf on
the job or take any other measures for the
reduction of output. Evidently there is
abundance of law to deal with these mis-
creants, and it is merely a matter of its
enforcement.
Things are not bright in Soviet Land,
largely because such a great proportion of
industrial and scientific experts have been
scragged or hunted out of the country for
being “bourgeois,” or “reactionary,” and
“comrades” of the Ryan or Jock Garden
type are inferior substitutes. The case
resembles that of the old Southern U.S.
nigger, who was a wretchedly unsatisfactory
worker because he didn’t know any better.
His owner couldn’t teach him much, for he
knew very little himself except how to
maintain his family dignity, but he could
always flog Samho as a substitute for in-
struction.
The Sovietecrs have floated 15 compulsory
local loans in four years, and multiplied
the public debt sixfold. That is one way
of flogging Sambo.
4
Taking Care of the Talkies.
“M.S.”: “Let’s take care of the talkies,”
says “Ezra" (B. 27/2/’29). A close
acquaintance with the trade moves me to
retort that the talkies will take care of
themselves—or, rather, their audiences will
take care of them.
“Ezra" shows the influence of a common
delusion of reformers, that somewhere or
other there is a small but sinister group
of persons bent on debauching the public
taste. The facts are the other way about.
The public taste debauches the producers.
In every Australian capital every week
bored men gather in little private projec-
tion theatres conning the forthcoming “re-
leases.” They sit in silence chewing cigar-
ettes and occasionally relieving their feel-
ings with a cynical jest as some particularly
blatant passage of mother-love flits across
the screen. “Good stuff, but it won’t go,”
or “Tripe, but it will fetch ’em,” are their
characteristic comments. They are not in
the business for their health or the spiritual
uplift of the nation, or even for the “better-
ment of the humblest,” to quote “Ezra."
They are there to fill their theatres.
If “Ezra" wants to elevate the movies he
had better agitate for the repeal of the
industrial legislation which enables their
patrons, mainly boys and girls, to gratify
their tastes in entertainment. I don’t think
it would be a good way, but I know no
other.
4
No Excuse for Inaction.
The Federal Minister for Health mentioned
a few days ago that he “had been informed
by cable that in England and Northern
Europe there had been a widespread out-
break of influenza, with many thousands
more cases than in the last few years.”
There was no need to go to the cable
service. British papers which have been
coming to hand for the past month are full
of items about influenza. Take this from
the London Sunday Express (20/l/’29): —
“There has been an average of 15 deaths
a day from influenza in Belfast this w r eek,
and a flying squad of British Red Cross
nurses is now touring the infected areas.
In some cases doctors have the keys of
houses where whole families are stricken.
Dispensing staffs have had to be doubled, and
there are over 300 influenza patients in one
hospital alone.”
Minister Howse’s excuse for inaction is
that the British epidemic resembles the
erring housemaid’s baby:—
“The outbreak is not comparable with that
of 1918, either in the number of cases
occurring or their severity.”
However, the danger centre so far as Aus-
tralia is concerned is not Britain or Europe
but the U.S.A., where, according to the
American papers, there have been 26,000
deaths in seven weeks.
Even if the British epidemic was neglig-
ible—and all the newspaper evidence is to
the contrary—and even if the American one
did not threaten us—an absurd proposition
in the geographical circumstances—it would
still be the duty of the Federal Health De-
partment to bestir itself. Pneumonia, bron-
chitis and other complaints may follow 1 with
fatal suddenness in the mildest of influenza
cases. Knowledge of what preventive mea-
sures should be taken is the best of prophy-
lactics, and the Health Department is the
body that should impart it. An objection
is that panic can be as dangerous as an
epidemic, once an epidemic has made its
appearance. But this is only an additional
reason why the public should be familiar-
ised with the methods of influenza pre-
vention before the coming winter.
♦
Where It Pays to be Suspicious.
The decision of the Queensland Govern-
ment to close the W.Q. border against cattle
from the N.T. because of the increasing in-
roads of the buffalo fly has been followed by
Federal instructions to the Council for
Scientific and Industrial Research to carry
out active investigations into methods of
dealing with this latest of many imported
pests.
Because the buffalo fly has been known
to exist in parts of North Australia for
years, and because until lately it has been


comparatively innocuous there, as it is in
its native habitat of Java, the possibility
of its becoming a danger has hitherto been
pooh-poohed. How dangerous it can be
to cattle and dairy herds was shown by the
experience of Texas, where it
was introduced by Brahmin cattle. For
some years it proved a costly proposition
for the Texan cattle-breeders to tackle, in
spite of the severe winters, and even to-
day it remains something of a problem.
Australia ought to be eternally vigilant
in these matters, and suspicious withal. It
has paid dearly for the carelessness shown
in the story of prickly-pear and of the
cattle tick. The pear, planted in a Darling
Downs garden in the 1850’s, made little
headway for many years. Gradually it
spread until a few with a knowledge of its
possibilities began to suggest that property-
owners should be compelled to keep their
acres clear, only to be ridiculed as alarmists.
In the last 10 years of last century the pear
took hold of millions of acres. Since then
tons of money have been spent in the unend-
ing war against the curse, and vast areas
of grazing and farming land capable of
adding greatly to the productive wealth of
the nation have been locked up.
The tick was known, and supposed to be
harmless, in North Queensland for years.
Signs of an increase began to show, and
again the alarmists raised their unheeded
voices. Then, almost in a season, the tick
armies, bringing with them the fatal red-
water, began the march southward that was
stopped only by a colder winter climate and
the expenditure of hundreds of thousands
in preventive measures. In the meantime,
a large proportion of Queensland’s beef and
dairy cattle had been wiped out.
»
Subsidising Sensationalism.
Dear Bulletin, —An interesting bit of evi-
dence slipped out during the Senate Select
Committee’s inquiry into the cost of cabling.
The P.M.G.’s chief inspector of finance
stated that the handling of telegraphed press
messages within Australia failed to pay to
the extent of £200,000 yearly. Another way
of putting the matter would have been to
say that the Federal taxpayer subsidises
the owners of newspapers to this extent
annually; and I, as a Federal taxpayer,
object.
It, is a curious position. The cable com-
panies handle the bulk of the overseas press
messages, the beam for some reason not be-
ing favored. They charge a tariff which prob-
ably earns them a fair profit. This tariff,
however, is very much lower than that for
private telegrams, yet press messages are
rushed over the cables as if the nation’s
life depended on it. If the bulk of the
lucubrations of the correspondents in
London and elsewhere were of transcendent
importance this would not matter; but I
have seen business wires, on which the, full
rate has been paid, put on one side while a
stream of piffle about cricketers, divorcees
or film stars monopolises the- circuit. When
the cable companies advertise a piece of
quick transmission it is always the result
of a Derby or a Test match.
Turning over recent files of an Australian
paper I find amongst the cabled news such
burning items as that a Frenchman has
arrived in Shanghai with a scheme for teach-
ing Chinese in eight hours; that his bat
and ball have been buried in the same
grave with a cricketer; that an English
parson doesn’t believe in evolution and that
a Hollywood film star has had her latest
husband’s name engraved on her anatomy.
No doubt these things are interesting. They
add color to life and help the digestion of
the nation’s breakfast. But they can hardly
be called matters of urgency.
It is the same as far as the Australian
inland telegraphs are concerned. Extra-
ordinary privileges are granted to the
nabobs of the press. Messages of the most
trivial nature are reneated in multiple all
over the country and the charge for the
service hardly pays the wages of the copyist.
Wires are delivered by express, or tele-
phoned, at any time of the day or night.
Although a private person finds the greatest
difficulty in getting any sort of credit from
the Telegraph Department, anybody car.
walk into an office and send a wire to a
newspaper without paying a cent.
Considering that a newspaper is a private
business conducted for profit, and in view
of the anti-social nature of some of the
journals which are big imbibers of the
department’s privileges, I see no reason
why the press class of telegram should not
be made to pay its way, along with the
others. —Yours, etc., R. Volt..
+ — :
Hospitals and Swindles.
One notable cause of the overcrowded, im-
pecunious and sometimes insanitary muss
into which the majority of N.S.W. hospitals
have fallen appears to be simply the fading
of the old idea that the acceptance of
charity is a thing to be avoided whenever
possible. A secondary cause is that so much
hospital subscription money is looted by
adventurers and adventuresses of a par-
ticularly loathsome order.
During three years the supine N.S.W.
department which connives at these things
authorised 178 schemes of the “art union”
class. The takings were £344,063, of which
£216,147 admittedly went in expenses, mostly
the salaries and pickings of the union artists.
In addition there are large possibilities of
embezzlement between the lines. The Bavin
Government has a measure on hand for
giving the charity-monger and -mongeress
a little wholesome restraint.
As for the gratis hospital inmate, a
simple device is to be adopted. He or she
will become from the moment of arrival
the institution’s debtor for the value of the
institution’s services. In the case of the
impecunious sufferer the claim won’t be
worth pursuing, but as to the affluent person
who takes a mean advantage of his or her
bleeding country, it will be a blessed cir-
cumstance to have the legal claim on hand,
and there will be satisfaction in enforcing
it. Then the financial shirker will show a
tendency to drop out, and more room will
be available for the class which really
needs cheap hospitality, and expenses will
diminish, and less toil will fall to the lot
of Florence Nightingale junior, who under
present conditions is overworked, ill-paid
and often badly housed.
*
The Strike Committee Takes Control.
“R. G. N. Cliffwell”: In Queensland
there may be both legal and illegal strikes,
but the procedure of snapping fingers in
the nose of the arbitration system is the
same in each case. During a sojourn in
that State I had experience of a strike period
of special intensity, and learned how very
thoroughly the community passes under a
sort of sovietism the minute a really big
strike is on.
I lived in one of the smaller a
shipping and canegrowing centre. The
moment Brisbane sent out the tocsin that
the strike had begun there arose as it were
from nowhere a self-elected body called
the strike committee. It was composed of
obscure citizens—union officials—of wliom
the general populace had not before heard,
but who forthwith became endowed with a
mysterious power that overrode all other
communal functions.
The committee notified that it had a
headquarters, and began to issue orders
concerning what would be allowed and what
would not; and the local newspapers
solemnly published its commands. Men in
business meekly applied for permits to move
merchandise from wharves and from the
rail. Thjs junta ordered a daily muster of
•‘industrialists” to sing a morning hymn of
hate—“creating a feeling of solidarity,” this
was called—and to march in procession
through the city streets in contempt of the
civic by-laws. The police helped to marshal
the processions, and a paralysed public saw
that its cars, carts and children were kept
off the fairway.
At its daily session the junta reviewed
the conduct of its followers and those others
over whom it was temporarily ruler, and
approval or commination was recorded as
the case might be. Anyone not showing
proper respect was threatened with the
dread word “black,” and all that it
meant. A daily-paper editor who denounced
the committee’s pretensions as impudence
escaped being declared “black” by a single
vote. Big employers of labor actually
sought rulings from the junta on industrial
problems and .commercial procedure. The
leader of the local anti-Labor organisation
humbly asked for a direction whether or not
a sugarmill railway line became “black” at
the crossover where it traversed the “black”
Government line. No one attempted to
resist or sidestep the committee’s rulings;
all knew the reprisals that would follow.
The strike declared off, the junta men
sank again into their former obscurity, thi
hymn of hate was put into cold storage,
the strike president resumed fraternity with
the editor-critic, and there was an ex
cathedra announcement that bygones were
bygones and all local blacks white. But
while functioning the soviet meant every
word it said, and meant it furiously.
O
The Opium Trade in Malaya.
“Si Anu”: So many wild statements have
been flying around at Geneva and else-
where about callous trafficking in opium
by the British Government in Malaya that
the actual facts ought to be known. Chandu
(prepared opium) is sold only to persons
registered somewhere in British Malaya.
Any adult Chinese can register; other
nationalities must have the written autho-
rity of the superintendent. Production of
a card enables chandu to be purchased at
any chandu shop. Cards are not trans-
ferable except by authority.
These provisions were introduced to fulfil
the Government’s obligations under Article
10 passed at the first Opium Conference at
Geneva. The Government’s aim is to main-
tain a monopoly of the traffic in order to
regulate it and minimise abuses. The vast
majority of card-owners are moderate par-
takers. They smoke quietly in private.
Many are coolies who take a pinch before
they start on an arduous day of toil. They
don’t make raving nuisances of themselves
in public as does a gin-crazed white man.
The British authorities believe that a
habit so deeply ingrained in the Asiatic is
ineradicable by any system of absolute
restriction. Viewing the results of Prohibi-
tion in America, who shall say that the
British authorities are mistaken?
— : — «
Cable Trains, Electrics or ’Buses?
“Chevrofobd” : Detached observers have
derived cynical amusement from the con-
troversy which has been raging in Mel-
bourne over the proposed electrification of
the trams in Collins-street.
Cameron of the Tramways Board, being
a shrewd Scotsman, has only one aim in
view, to increase the receipts of his depart-
ment. To replace the loitering cable car
with electric juggernauts would undoubtedly
do this. The Herald took up the cudgels
on behalf of the peace and quietness of
upper Collins-street. It has printed hun-
dreds of columns on the subject, embellished
with charming photographs which made
thousands of Melburnians realise that the
city had a section which for civic beauty
was more or less comparable with European
cities.
The Herald painted a pitiable picture
of the distress which would be occa-
sioned to the physicians and surgeons who
cluster in that corner of the city. It even
took a vote amongst residents and property
owners, and lately it has chronicled with glee
that owners are determined to refuse
permission to the board to attach wires to
their buildings to support the electric cables.
It being necessary for the Argus to have
the opposite policy to the Herald, that
bulwark of freedom supported Mr. Cameron.
It suddenly discovered in its conservative
old heart a passionate solicitude for the
People. How were the People to get to
work save in a contraption which thunders
down the middle of the road manacled to
a steel ribbon and sets of rails that mono-
polise one-third of the area available for
traffic?
While the controversy has been raging,
Cameron, knowing full well that no autho-
rity can stop him, has gone quietly ahead
with his preparations, and it is pretty certain
that within a few months Collins-street
will have its electric trams, willy nilly. It
is a wide thoroughfare and motors skid
along it at any speed up to 35 m.p.h. The
speedy electric tram is a harder proposition
to catch than the slow cable, and the toll
taken by the motors of the pedestrians who
have to cross No Man’s Land to reach the
safety zones is likely to be higher. Here,
if anywhere, is a case for an impartial body
to go into the pros and cons of the situation
and come to a rational decision. For in
stance, it might come to the conclusion
that the type of ’bus now used in U.S.A
and England, which carries 70 passengers,
and which draws up alongside the pavement.,
might transport Cameron’s clients more
safely and expeditiously than electric trams
would.
♦ There are technical considerations which
only experts can adjudicate on, yet every
citizen has a cut-and-dried opinion on the
subject according to the newspaper he
patronises. The newspapers are conduct-
ing the discussion as if it were about a
general election.
THE COMFORTER.
MANN FROM PERTH: “Don’t take it to heart, Billy. We Freetraders must be prepared to suffer in the grand old cause.”
OUTCAST SPIRIT: “Blithering blazes!”


I
ill
5 >4
0
On the highways of the
world satisfied motorists
are daily proving the
superiority of
MOTOR
OIL
SHELL
MOTOR
SPIRIT
POLITICAL
POINTS
Little Billy Hughes is now in open mutiny
and shouting to the crew to arise and make
him captain right off. “This Government has
done, more to create industrial unrest than
to bridge the gulf between Capital and
Labor,” he shouted the other day. The
sometime president of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation and the Transport
Workers’ Federation and the Carters’ Union
was Prime Minister during the great strikes
of 1917 (wage loss, £2,594,808), 1919 (loss,
£3,951,936) and 1920 (loss, £1,223,716). As
a bridger he was a dire failure, though he
showed points as a hedger.
The S. Aus. Gov-
ernment has gone out
of the business of
finding relief jobs for
the un employed at a
minimum of £4 ss. a
week, and borrowing
the money. It pro-
vides instead relief
rations, the recipients
being obliged to give
local authorities the
equivalent in work.
There is so much un-
employment, largely as
a result of the water-
side workers’ strike,
that the relief rations,
according to Chief
Sec. Tassie’s estimate,
will cost the Govern-
ment £lOO,OOO this
financial year.
It is vaguely under-
stood that the amended
N.S.W. Upper House
will consist of 60
elected members instead
of the present mon-
Chief-Sec. Tassie
(S.A.).
strosity of 95, of whom 49 are Labor nomi-
nees. As a preliminary the Government in-
troduced a bill providing that the .Council
shall not be altered or abolished until the
people have approved by referendum. (In
Queensland they strongly disapproved by
referendum, but the Theodore Ministry went
on with the abolition just the same.) The
Langites showed a minimum of enthusiasm
about the referendum proposal; in fact, their
attitude resembled plain disgust.
If the first seven months of the financial
year are a fair indication, Australia’s im-
ports for the whole year will exceed its
exports by £6,600,000, which sum will be
borrowed in London or New York after the
usual fashion, along with about £37,000,000
to cover interest on old foreign debts. This
£43,600,000 should be covered by the pro-
ducts of our own industry. As it isn't the
country is short of industry, but has plenty
of unemployed crying out for loan jobs and
rations.
The behavior of the rowdy section of the
N. S. Wales Leg. Assembly, which every day
and in every way
has been getting
worse and worse
during the last fort-
night, has severely
taxed the forbear-
ance of Speaker
Levy. On one day-
last week 16 Labor
members refused to
act as tellers, and
beyond suspending
one of them for a
week the House
took no steps to
support the Speak-
er’s authority. The
wearer of the full-
bottomed wig, how-
ever, has powers of
his own, as a noisy
fellow named Peter
Connolly discovered
on Friday. This
Daniel Levy, N.S.W.
Speaker.
gentleman persist-
ently interrupted Premier Bavin with what
the Speaker described as “exceedingly offen-
sive” remarks, and as the political larrikin
persisted lie was escorted from the House
by the Scrgeant-at-Arms.
Reform newspapers in Maoriland have
taken the defeat of their side very philoso-
phically. The leading journals supporting
the Coates party have nothing but mild
approbation for the Wardites and their
doings. If it wasn't for the Labor party
the F'ernlanders might imagine they were
entering upon a political millennium. Labor
regards the truce as a justification of the
assertion that there are really only two
parties in M.L. —Labor and Anti-Labor —
and refuses to join in the cooing of doves and
the flourishing of olive branches.
In its last financial year Canada had a
revenue surplus of about £14,000,000, and its
exports exceeded imports by something like
£35,000,000. Amid the bustla and confusion
thus created the big bleak Dominion paid off
£70,000,000 of debt and knocked £25,000,000
off taxes. Great Britain managed to have
a surplus of exports over imports, including
profits of foreign investments and services, of
about £150,000,000. So it wasn’t reduced
to cadging for loans, and it liquidated some
more of its war debt. Australia, with its
roar about the illimitable natural resources,
is the absolute reverse of all this.
Vic. Premier McPherson has sounded a
note of warning to the A.W.N.L. that a
general election for the Leg. Assembly may
be forced at any time after Parliament
assembles in July. He advised preparations,
including the picking of candidates. Labor
is already preparing. Despite unpopular
strikes and fear of taxation raids, Hogan
and co. profess to think that the people are
panting for a chance to send them back to
rule the State.
Rear-Admiral Napier put the case for pre-
servation of the cables in a nutshell when
he told a Select Committee of Senators that,
whereas wireless could be picked up by any-
one equipped with the necessary apparatus,
the cable would have to be tapped. He might
have added that a cable cannot be tapped
without the stations at each end of it imme-
diately knowing that something is amiss and
stopping transmission. He did add that the
beam can also be jammed, whereas cables
must be cut; and that a nation possessing
command of the sea could guarantee cable
services, whereas no nation can command
the ether.
One of the Federal Royal Commissions,
the Child Endowment one, has come to a
decision and a conclusion. The decision is
that it can’t decide, and the conclusion is
that it will take its 18 months’ pay and go
home. The majority reported that to give
ss. per week, as proposed, for every child
under 15, when the family income was £3OO
or less, would cost the Commonwealth
£22,000,000 a year, and that aspect of the
case closed right there. Since the wander-
ing Commission was appointed troubles have
been pouring in, and news about how to
spend money on good works has become a
dreary bore.
The Labor petition against the election of
Harry Lawson and Robert Elliott as Sena-
tors for Victoria was dismissed by
Starke, J„ sitting as a Court of Disputed
Returns. The decision is final, so Lawson
and Elliott will take their seats as from
July 1. The claim was that the electoral
officers had improperly rejected 11,259 ballot-
papers because they were marked Barnes 1,
Blakey 2, Findley 3, Elliott 4, Lawson 6.
The Judge held that the Electoral Act laid
down a definite and imperative rule regard-
ing consecutive preferences. It would have
been rough on Lawson and Elliott had they
been unseated, for the eleventh-hour death of
their team-mate, Forsyth, cost them more
than 11,289 votes. Indeed, if the Nat.-
Cockies hadn’t been obliged to vote for a
Labor man it is highly improbable that Jack
Barnes would have been returned.
Commissioner Griffiths reports that the
recent unpleasantness at Rabaul was what
militants call a stopwork meeting, and that
the missions were in no way implicated. The
trouble-makers were negro seamen on the
copra ships. The incident points the moral
that there is danger in permitting the un-
restricted propaganda of imported undesir-
ables, whether coons or “comrades.”
Queensland’s Labor Ministry is proud of
being the sole survivor among the English-
speaking Governments in office during the
war. It also claims to be the only Austra-
lian Administration which has fought two
general elections without losing a seat. It
has other records of which it doesn’t boast
—railway deficits, for instance. They are
being well advertised by the Opposition.
The A.L.P, executive in N.S.W. is de-
manding a contribution of £22 17s. Gd. per
annum from Labor members and £2 ss. from
union secretaries. If the idea is that the
member who doesn’t pay will lose his nomi-
nation this presumably comes under the
head of demanding money with threats.
The Bavin Government’s Transport Bill pro-
poses to take the N.S.W. tramways out of the
hands of the Railway Commissioners and
put them under the control of trusts, which
will also have authority to issue or refuse
licenses for motor-’bus services, and to pay
compensation in respect of all such enter-
prises which it is thought advisable to dis-
continue. The measure bristles with debat-
able points, but it is at least an effort to
solve a problem which the Slangwhang Gov-
ernment dodged.
The trans-Australian railway from Adel-
aide northward got successfully into the
desert a long while ago, and stayed there
for over a generation because S. Australia
was financially stumped and the Common-
wealth, which inherited the work, took little
interest in a place with so few votes to dis-
pose of. But another stretch of about 290
miles (Oodnadatta to Alice Springs) is to
be completed in June, so that the terminus
will be out of the persistent old hole, and
will have moved into a region of brighter
prospects. People are already beginning to
arrive in Central Australia, and in view of
cheap transit prospecting has started with
sonie vigor. One of the local resources is
mica, said. to be better than the average
and the biggest deposit in the world. In
1926 the Commonwealth produced lli tons
of this mineral, and the value was officially
quoted as £10,460, at which rate there should
be a crust in the business.
There is no specific provision for compul-
sory voting at the liquor prohibition or no-
prohibition poll to be
taken in Vic. next
year, but a nice point
has arisen as to whe-
ther the passage of
the consolidated Stat-
utes in December last
will not oblige people
to vote. Compulsory
voting for the Leg.
Assembly came in
years after the enact-
ment authorising the
referendum was pass-
ed, and the arrange-
ments for the referen-
dum have to be on all
fours with those for
an Assembly election.
The consolidated Acts
will come into opera-
tion about August or
September next, after
Parliament gets a
chance to point out
any errors or omis-
sions. The prohibi-
tionists, who are
headed by Greenwood,
M.L.A., have a notion
E. W. Greenwood.
that compulsion would help them in Vic.,
with its proportionately large female popu-
lation, but it didn’t in N. S. Wales last year.
Hughes had another blow-up last Friday.
The Government, he said,- was divided into
two parties, one of which wanted to encour-
age primary and the other secondary indus-
try. It would, apparently, have been better
if it had been divided into one party which
was mildly indifferent to both. He demanded
fiercely to know what the Country party had
ever done to reduce duties, and said he be-
lieved in Protection. He announced that
during the Bruce-Page term of office the
number of people employed on the land had
dropped, and foretold that the man on the
land would soon be as extinct as the dodo
or the cockadoodledoo or something. He
further wailed that the Ministry had /‘in-
quired into everything and done nothing. ’
Yet the Bruce-Page Ministry, with all its
defects, will be able next June to report that
it has carried the South-to-North railway
298 miles further north, and broken the spell
which Hughes didn’t shift in nine consecu-
tive years of job-holding, though he certainly
sent Birtles, the bikist, up to inquire.
A conference of Labor women sitting in
Melbourne passed 25 political resolutions in
one strenuous day. Some of them were
financial, such as the following:—
The baby bonus to be raised to £lO.
Old age and invalid pensions to be increased to
£2 weekly.
Immediate establishment of a child-endowment
scheme and State allowance for children to be not
less than 15s. per week.
Widows’ pensions to be established in all the
States.
Men and women to be paid alike.
Women to begin receiving full adult wages at the
age of 18.
The enthusiasts demanded an expenditure
of some £50,000,(XX) or more per year, and
didn’t offer a single suggestion, even of the
poorest sort, about finding the nioney. They
left more man to find it. Mere, man replies
that he doesn’t know how and would like.
to be told.
Ted Corboy, who
spent a year in the
House of Reps, as
Labor member for
Swan, succeeding the
late John Forrest, has
been M.L.A. for Yil-
garn since 1921. In
those days his consti-
tuents were mostly
miners. Now they are
mostly farmers, and
the Yilgarn farmers
have had a poor sea-
son, though the dis-
trict averaged over IS
bushels in 1927-28.
So Corboy is busy on
their behalf. Some
people want to settle
crowds of “migrants”
in the Yilgarn coun-
try. Given a fair
share of forest land,
good farmers with a
bit of money behind
them would in all pro-
bability succeed there,
but it is no place for
tyros without capital.
Corboy, M.L A.
A conference of railway-men has sat at
Wagga (N.S.W.) and passed resolutions of
a familiar type. One was that railway-
workers “should join hands to make common
resistance to any inroads on existing con-
ditions,” and another that they “protested
most emphatically against the protracted
delay in hearing claims for improved con-
ditions.” They viewed “with the utmost con-
cern” some alleged threat of the Railway
Commissioners to bash the innards out of
wages and damage conditions, and they
noticed a dark scheme on the Commissioners’
part to line up with other employers in
putting the hoof of oppression into the entire
working class. In addition, they expressed
profound sympathy for coalminers and strik-
ing timber-workers, demanded that the doors
of the Bastille should be thrown open and all
political prisoners set free, and insisted, on
an inquiry into the black conspiracy against
Jacob Johnson, the existence of the con-
spiracy being self-evident. But they didn’t
demand, like another recent conference, that
the baby bonus and old-age and invalid-
pensions should.be doubled and a universal
child-pension established of at least 15s. per
child per week, which showed a certain
moderation.
“Bildad”: When I read the outbursts of
anguished persons who reckon that the
future of Australia depends on the construc-
tion of a long curly railway from Bourke
(N.S.W.) through West Queensland into the
dim North, instead of finishing the straight
line across Middle Australia, I am reminded
of an equally bitter roar of a few years ago.
The Constitution said that the capital should
be established in N.S.W., but it didn’t say
when. The N.S.W. GoA’ernment demanded
the right to veto every site except one of
its own selection, and the clamor in Sydney
about the “wrongs” of N.S.W. became most
insistent. After about ten years Canberra
was chosen. Now the little Canberra terri-
tory has a less dense population than Tas-
mania, Victoria or N.S.W., and civil ser-
vants get special pay, which they say is in-
sufficient, for living there, and the blessings
which were to accrue to N.S.W. don’t even-
tuate. The general feeling in the Ma State
is that of the man who spent years in pur-
suit of a plain girl, and has now got her for
life, but finds she has no money.
FOR CHARITY’S SAKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Attorney-General Boyce said that his department
had a list of people in Sydney who had done no
work since 1914 except organising charity carni-
vals and pocketing their share of the profits.”
When you weary of dull, uncongenial toil
That gives you scant share of the corn and
the oil
Of. life and makes whisky a rarity,
Don’t grumble at Fortune and call her a
jade.
Consider the hustlers who make it their
trade
To spring off their tails to philanthropy’s
aid
And organise functions for charity.
It’s not what we’re told that it covers in sins
So much as the place where (we know) it
begins
That doubtless provides the solution
Of why you can always rely on a hand
From experts who that sort of thing under-
stand
W hen a fete is devised or a beano is planned
For some highly-esteemed institution.
There are lotteries, houp-las and merry-go-
rounds,
And similar gadgets to brighten, the grounds
And supply the contented hilarity,
The urge from benevolent pockets that draws
The coin that’s ostensibly meant for the
Cause.
And, if much of it sticks to the go-betweens’
paws.
Bethink that they’re working for charity.
’Twixt the sum that arrives at the object
assigned
And the carnival takings ’tis true you will
find
Too oft an alarming disparity.
But there’s Scriptural warrant, much-quoted,
well-worn,
Against muzzling the oxen that tread out
corn,
And in special remembrance the text must
be borne
When the qxen are working for charity.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Euroa”: It wasn’t a serious smash, but
we were both emptied out of the car, and
I was desperately afraid that she was hurt.
Her first words, as I assisted her to her
feet, almost reassured me. “See if you can
find my shoe,” she said, “before any women
come about. I’ve got such a big hole in
the heel of my stocking.” It wasn’t till I
had found and put on the shoe that she
fainted.
* * # #
“Chicot”: In the course of bankruptcy
proceedings in Brisbane, a debtor admitted
that he had once been Consul for Bolivia,
A MATTER OF FIGURES.
FEDWELL: “Before we part, gentlemen, we mustn’t forget the chairman. Health of Mr.
Isaacstein, one of the best! Not born among us, but now so nearly Australian
that, as you know, he’s generally known as ‘Old Eighty Per Shent.'" (Loud
cheers.)
but added that the post was a purely
honorary one. The Registrar expressed
surprise; lie had thought that all Consuls
received some allowance; seeing that they
were expected to help distressed sailors and
others from the countries which they repre-
sented. The sometime figurehead for the
South American republic replied that such
applications were very infrequent; during
his term of office only one alleged Bolivian
had made a request for assistance, and he
was not sufficiently satisfied about the man’s
bona fides to relieve his wants. The appli-
cant’s name, it transpired, was Murphy.
* * * *
_ strict Veg. : The reappearance of Leslie
Williams, the Goulburn motorist who van-
ished into rumor two months ago in Vic-
toria, has caused more discomfiture in clair-
voyant circles in Melbourne than at Russell-
street. After dredging dams and ponds all
over the State, and even sending a diver to
investigate the bottom of a river, the police
had begun to incline to the correct solution,
that Williams was alive with a lost memory.
Right up to the end, the clairvoyants, how-
ever, continued to see his dead body, with
great clearness and a wealth of remark-
able detail. Only one of them succeeded in
making a graceful exit. He admitted that
he claimed to have seen the body, but added
that if the police had had the enterprise to
consult him he would have told them that
it was moving.
* * * *
“P.M.”: I know one man who got a war
decoration because he wasn’t there to refuse
it. Just after the Armistice the Roumanian
Government presented the Royal Air Force
with a batch of medals of some polysyllabic
order, and one was allotted to our Australian
Flying Corps Squadron for an officer or
warrant officer. The officers regarded it as
a joke, and wouldn’t take it, and the sergeant-
major turned it down for the same reason.
The chief mechanic (a first-class w. 0.) was
on Blighty leave, and when he got back it
had gone through in his name, there being
nobody else to give it to. The funny part
of it was that the ribbon was almost the
same as the D. 5.0., and the Jacks used to
salute him.
* * * *
“Queros”: When I came out from San
Francisco some years ago in the old Sierra,
we had at our table the Baroness von
Schnapper and her two daughters, travel-
ling second to avoid the sartorial require-
ments of the first saloon. One of the stew-
ards constituted himself the titled dame’s
special retainer and almost ignored the rest
of us. We credited him basely with hope of
an outsize in gratuities at Auckland. On
the last morning most of the passengers
placed their modest tips under their plates,
but the Baroness stooped to nothing so
plebeian and sailed majestically upstairs
with her retinue. The übiquitous humor-
ist rose to the occasion by dexterously
slipping a threepenny bit under the
Baroness’s plate, and the same coin under
those on her left and right. Then we all
adjourned to the deck and gazed down on
the table to await developments. When the
steward removed the plate and saw the first
thruppence he absolutely reeled: a glance
under the daughters’ plates left him almost
stupefied. Recovering himself, he hurled the
Baroness’s plate to fragments against the
table and swore bitterly. It was the lady
herself who supnlied the sequel. “Veil,” we
overheard her s;. y to the daughters as she
waddled off the ship, “I vos going to give
him tumting kood, but he vos so insulting
ven I vent down I vill not tink of it.”
* * * *
“Hamer”: If the subject of considerate
suicides has been exhausted I nominate a
Toowoomba (Q.) Chinaman for top place
among inconsiderate ones. He had been a
mysterious disappearance for over a week
before he was found floating in the town
reservoir; when I arrived the inhabitants
were sticking firmly to beer and trying to
forget the evil taste left in their mouths.
For months afterwards Toowoomba preferred
its water boiled.
* s!: * *
“Oxmead”: England’s latest sex puzzle is
a quaint creature who developed from a
Mrs. Smith into a Captain Barker and might
have remained the latter had not an offence
against the bankruptcy laws sent her to
prison. From the mass of somewhat confus-
ing details projected over the cables it is
gathered that the lady began her whirling
career bv marrying an A.I.F. lieutenant.
Him she left after a brief period of wedded
bliss, transferring her affections to an AI F.
corporal, to whom she bore two children A
f ew years later she became a man, to out-
ward seeming, at all events, and with exceed-
ing thoroughness. The he who had been a
she successfully courted a girl and married
her, and the trouble that sent the bride back
to her parents is alleged to have arisen
merely because the “husband” was too atten-
tive to other women. These appear to be the
least disputable facts, though there are some
amazing discrepancies about minor details
one account represents the central figure of
the piece as having “a flat, boyish figure”
and another as weighing 16 stone. Also the
lieutenant and the corporal, both of whom
are said to be back in Australia, have still
to be heard from. If a sex problem like this
were in a play or a book, the Lord Chamber-
lain would ban it as improper or the Law
order it to be destroyed, but the Smith-
Barker person, being from real life, is writ-
ing remunerative reminiscences.
* * * *
“Caractacus”: I know whither some of
the articles of household use souvenired from
battleships, Ritz-Carltons and the like, find
their way. I occupied for a short period a
room-and-cooker flat in a cheap residential.
Included in the fittings were some glasses
bearing the brands of two city hotels, cups
from a railway refreshment-rcom, plates
stamped with the names of tw r o well-known
caterers and some spoons from a liner, h ur-
nished residentials have a rule about replac-
ing breakages—no doubt these were the re-
placements.
* * * *
“C.”: From documents in the Water
Board archives it seems most likely
that Sydney’s old Tank Stream started
in what is now Bathurst-street (B.
13/3/’29) and was once the ridge of
a watershed. From there it trickled north,
spreading over the marshland which is to-
day the region of the shopping centre from
Market-street to King-street. The main stream
continued under the present G.1’.0. A
wooden bridge crossed it in what is now
Bridge-street, and a ha’penny toll was
charged until the cost of this structure had
been defrayed.
>it * * *
“Nettle” : A Melbourne paper is publishing
as a serial another of those absurd stones
in which Ned Kelly is shown as something of
a hero, as much sinned against as sinning.
Why is the whitewash brush so often applied
to one of the blackest records in our criminal
calendar? The story of the insult offered by
a constable to
Kelly’s sister is a
li cti o n invented
long after the out-
1a w li a d been
hanged. Thirty
years ago I made
the acquaintance of
an old farmer who
had had the Kellys
as near neighbors.
He was a kindly,
broad-minded soul,
but he had no good
word to say of
Ned, who, starting
as a boy with petty
thefts from adja-
cent farms, went
on to cattle-duffing
and thence to rob-
beries and brutal,
cowardly murders,
his victims in some
cases being taken
unawares. There
may have been bushrangers with some of the
finer qualities that Boldrewood gave Star-
light and the Marstons, but Ned Kelly was
assuredly not one of them.
:!: * * *
“Morita” : Touching reasons for enlisting
(B. 13/3/’29), I knew two inseparables in
France who divided the blame between a
game of poker and a horse. Down from the
bush together in early war days, they woke
up one morning with vague ideas of having
played cards the night before, and with only
three or four pounds between them. Neither
was keen on helping to win the war, but
it was decided to put the whole of their assets
on a good thing somebody had given them.
If it won they’d have a few more quiet days
and then drift homewards; if it lost they’d
get into khaki. When things were blackest
in France it was a constant argument with
them as to whether it was the horse, the
jockey or the owner that had let them down.
* * * =s
“Locritus”: Not only mutilated telegrams
cause trouble. A few days ago a youth was
fined £5 for sending an obscene letter through
the post. Had the addressee got it everything
would have been in order, but a postal official
carelessly stamped over the Christian name.
It went to the wrong man, and his action
led to the prosecution.
* :!: * lie
“Tamata” : Mention of a black boy named
Jupiter who accompanied Clark and Mosman
when they first sighted Charters Tow-
ers from the Burdekin River (B.
13/3/’29) recalls that years after-
wards Clark had two Australian black
boys with him when In'? party was
attacked on the Mamba River, north-
east Papua, and Clark was killed. In
the confusion that followed, the abos.
disappeared and left no trace. As the
country was gradually civilised, many
of the natives who took part in the
attack on Clark and the subsequent
massacre of Green and his police were
quite ready to talk of their exploits to
white men. But nobody, including the
writer, could ever get a word out of
them about the missing abos.
“ICY.”: Despite the cabled cheers, the
inauguration of telcphone-cM/u-telcgraph
communication on the one beam between
Canada and the Cold Land brings a similar
service between England and this country no
nearer. The Canadian achievement was only
partially successful. Lawless disturbances
in the ether made conversation inaudible
for two days, although the telegraphing
went on as usual. The aerial transference of
speech is very much more difficult than that
of Morse signalling. Whereas speech only
makes a whispering pulsation in the ether,
Morse can be made to thunder through
space, relatively speaking. Hence a mild
amount of static will upset a conversation
while leaving keyed signals absolutely un-
affected.
* * * *
“F.S.”: An aboriginal art exhibition is
shortly to be held in Melbourne. In order
to get material for it Charles Barrett, of
the Herald staff, A. S. Kenyon, a leading
authority on Binghi, and artist Percy Leason
recently" investigated a cave in the Gram-
pians, about 220 miles from Melbourne.
The walls are covered with decorations of
the usual obscene nature, but so highly con-
ventionalised that a spinster could look on
them without suspicion. Red hands are a
prominent feature, of the art gallery. They
are. hundreds of years old and were obviously
made by the traditional method of planting
the hand against the rock, filling the mouth
with red ochre and spraying it around the
model. They are the only examples in Vic-
toria, though the Northern Territory is
covered with them. Basedow believes that
they were a sort of visiting-card and that
natives could recognise one another’s. Leason
joined the expedition in the hope of being
able to make rubbings of pictures compar-
able wfith those of the famous Aurignacian
artists of palaeolithic Europe, but he came
away disappointed. As an artist. Binghi was
not a realist. He was a rather footling
futurist.
* * * *
“Ex. 3055”: If “Digger’s Batman” (B
13/3/’29) will take another look at the
Digger on the Sydney Cenotaph he should
SLIPPED A GENERATION.
Mr. GIDDYFOOT : “I used to dance with your mother when she
was your age.”
THE GIRL: “Oh, no, old pet—that was granny.”
be able to discover the water-bottle which
he says has been “quite legitimately omitted
—probably left in the dug-out.” My experi-
ence taught me that the water-bottle was
the Digger’s best friend, and I never knew
a man to separate it from his equipment,
especially in the front-line or supports.
As for the shortage of cartridge pouches,
the two allegedly missing ones will also
be found in their proper places—just pro-
truding from underneath the armpits.
Touching the omission of the gas helmet, of
which other fault-finders have been com-
plaining, this was not necessarily a part
of “battle order.” The Standing Orders
merely directed that gas helmets must be
worn while in the forward area, which was
anything up to five miles? behind the line.
Perhaps exception might be more justly
taken to the absence of an eutrenching-tool
and handle.
* * * *
“Fangaloli”: Touching that marble bath
on an old-established N.S.W. sheep station
(B. 6/3/’29). Many old hands will identify
the place; personally, I have seen the bath.
It is quite true that it was filled with milk
for the lady of the house to disport in, but
that the milk was afterwards consumed by
the convicts is something I never heard be-
fore. When I was a boy, over 80 years
ago, an old man named Evans told
me that he had been an assigned ser-
vant on the station, and that he was regu-
larly required to milk sufficient cows to
supply a bath for the lady. She was never
a convict woman. The station-owner was
a Scot, and he later returned to Scotland
to live, taking his wife with him.
* * * *
“Spare Corp” : Of the last utterances of
dying men which I heard on the other side,
at least two were unforgettable. A newly-
made sergeant, ripped in the groin by
machine-gun bullets, managed to say: “When
you get back you’ll find some rum in my
water-bottle —the boys’ll need it.” He never
spoke again. Another man had been horribly
mutilated by a shell. There was an effort to
cheer him. “You’ll get all right again,”
someone suggested. Bluey’s teeth (Bluey is
all the name I knew) flashed in a painful
smile. “What, and come back to this? A
man would be a mug!” he gasped.
* * :1: *
“Fairplay” : I can see no sense in “Singe-
moine’s” diatribe against the somewhat be-
lated progressiveness of the Orient Company,
as shown in the equipment of the recently-
launched Orontes (B. 6/3/’29). To have
comfort in ocean travel such as he appar-
ently detests is not even to be Americanised
—it has been provided on the Atlantic for
over 30 years by the Cunard and White Star
companies, both British. America, the war,
and the post-war movements of the world's
gold supply can have very little to do with
the progress in seafaring passenger accom-
modation which started in the early ’nineties,
since when the better liners in other parts
of the world have all provided private suites
and rooms with baths. Until very recently
the passenger accommodation on steamers
running to this country and around its coast
has been crude and comfortless, and in no
way to be compared with that found on
British. French, Dutch, American, Canadian,
German and even Japanese steamers —to
name only those on which I have travelled
during the last 20 years. No great Bol-
shevik or Socialist upheavals in any country
have followed the launchings of numerous
liners more luxurious than any we are likely
to see in the near future. Would “Singe-
moine” like to see a return to the comfort
standards of Charles Dickens’s day?
SCAT!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Discussing the birth of a freak kitten at
Mount Eden, the Auckland Star mentions that ‘the
mother was a Persian, and the father was unknown.’ ”
Along the garden path she came in conscious
royal worth,
A haughty princess who behaved as though
she owned the earth;
On dainty mincing feet she poised, a para-
gon in fur.
Whose air of high disdain assumed the world
was made for her.
Her life was spent in cushioned ease; with
wilfulness supreme
She claimed her rightful homage of a daily
dish of cream;
Patrician to her whisker tips, she occupied
a throne
Where ladies put their Persians in a king-
dom of their own.
Along the garden wall he crept with wary,
stealthy feet,
An Ishmael of the feline world, a raider fierce
and fleet,
A prowler and an outlaw who despised the
rule of man,
And battled for his daily meat in every
garbage can;
Marauder of the alleyways, freebooter of
the night,
A warrior lie who proudly bore the scars of
deadly fight:
A champion of Liberty, he’d rather gnaw a
bone
Than suffer the aspersion that he ‘wasn’t
• “on his own.”
They looked. They met. ’Twas Fate ! They
loved. For all her haughty mien
She “fell for” that plebeian tom, the spoiled
and dainty queen.
Together on the garden wall they basked
from morn till noon,
Night after night they gave to serenades
beneath the moon.
Convention? Caste? She spurned them all.
Ah! better stolen milk
Than loveless hours of slumber on a prison
bed of silk.
The sequel? List, ye movie fans! ’Twould
melt a heurt of stone —
“The mother was a Persian, and the father
was unknown.”
MAOBILAND.
BUBASTES.


m.mi ~ , «,
tbi> fa mmi a T4iV ,n v\h fa' 6 . * A i tera th a t
i .it, i• US }Vheel at Blackpool, the
Lancashn-e watering-place’ was being dis-
aear]y years of hoisting
PPG s i to the air reminds me. One
August bank holiday long ago the wheel was
doing the last turn of the day when the
machinery broke down, with the result that
the people in the two top carriages couldn’t
be got out, and had to stay there all night.
Ihe maximum load of the two cars was 30
cw!a but there is a robust tradition that
8000 husbands wired from Blackpool to
their wives next morning blaming the Wheel
for their enforced detention.
* * * *
“Detonator”: General Monash said at the
unveiling of Sydney’s Cenotaph that the
A.I.F. was the only purely volunteer body
to enter the war. Nevertheless the distinc-
tion is also claimed by the West Indies,
Newfoundland, Ceylon and all the French
African colonies, except Algeria. Even in
Britain, although the Conscription Act was
applicable to Scotland it was never enforced,
there being practically no eligiblcs left there
when it came into being.
* * * *
“Pylon”: Sydney has so long been accus-
tomed to regard Dr. Bradfield as the parent
as well as guardian of the Harbor Bridge
that its hero-worshipping instincts were
rudely shocked by recent articles in the
S. M. Herald wherein Ralph Freeman,
MORE OR LESS.
“So you’ve had a month’s holiday?”
“Well—three weeks and a week with my husband’s people.”
consulting engineer to Dorman, Long and
Co., virtually claimed the main authorship
of the huge structure. R. T. Ball, Minister
for Works, perhaps gets nearer the truth-
in describing the bridge plans as “a
Bradfield-Dorman, Long design.” The
man in the street insists on having his hero,
but the man on the job knows that the
Napoleonic figure is little more than his
own chief-of-staff or the most picturesque
member of a committee of technical experts
whose acquirements have been pooled. The
bridge is too vast a burden for one pair of
human shoulders.
* . - * * *
“Gouger”: In Egypt, the concentration of
our war dead into suitable cemeteries was
a vast task. There were no fewer than 55
graveyards that had formed temporary rest-
ing-places; in addition there were thousands
of scattered graves in the Libyan, Sinai
? nd Hedjaz deserts, with thousands more
bi Palestine. The graves dotted along
tl , le Suez canal were easily found, for wo
always he,d the canal; their occupants now
slec P in Ismailia. But along that great un-
marked highway across the Sinai desert to-
wards Palestine we fought for two blazing
S ’ and m ,an y men lay where they fell,
Others were buried by their cobbers in shal-
low hol * s in the bullet-swept ground Yet,
years after, most of the dead were collected
and now sleep at Ivantara by the canal.
Th °se who fell in Palestine are mostly now
ll 1 C(, meteries at Jerusalem, Ramleh, Gaza,
Beersheba, Din-el-Belah and Haifa The
Jerusalem cemetery on Mt. Scorpus, hard by
!^ le Olives, is one of the most
beautiful m the world.
«-v-1m * , , - .. ,
“X.D.”: The usual plea for time to pay
re ,ceived short shrift from MacNamara, P.M
when it was put forward by a man charged
keei ' iu *L a common gaming-house in
Melbourm*. “I see a large swelling m your
i,lsidc Collt l )oc ket,” said MacNamara to the
poverty-pleader, and out came £5O m notes.
UTT „ ((TT . « . , , ,
Hamer : Hands off the peoples plny-
grounds!” was once something more than a
slogan—it was a doctrine or religion—but
there is hardly a Sydney city park that has
not boon nibbled at of recent years. Went-
worth Park is mainly a wilderness, and the
alienation for factory buildings of a still
unused portion in order to provide money
for the improvement of the rest may have
some justification, but the cutting of a road-
way through the University (or Victoria)
Park to join Cleveland-street and Parra-
matta-road is something that would never
have been tolerated in pre-war days. Con-
sidered as a lung, Victoria Park is perhaps
the most important of all Sydney’s open
spaces; it is surrounded by densely-popu-
lated suburbs, and is the only playground fot
a multitude of children.
*
: It began to rain heavily just as
we had made the launch trip over Lake
Tarawera (M.L.), and we were filling in
tj me t j,e visitors’ book at our Wairoa
shelter. There were the usual inanities such
aS “Rosker,” “Kapai” (the Maori equiva-
lent), “Verv pretty” and “Out on its own,”
interspersed with some less complimentary
verdicts and a few snatches of doggerel. But
two of the comments were extraordinarily
revealing. One was “Socialism Spoils
Sport,” which raised a picture of an iras-
cible British aristocrat who had found him-
self casting flies alongside the local butcher.
The other had evidently come straight from
the heart of some old lady who had struggled
pantingly over the hot, rough and altogether
exhausting cinder-bed of Tarawera. “Nice
cup of tea,” she had written.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: There are many early
Christian manuscripts far outdating York
Minster’s cherished Gospels (B. 13/3/’29),
but you would have to go beyond Spain and
Italy for them. Possibly the Syriac manu-
scripts of the Church of Alexandria, which
dates back almost to the Crucifixion itself, are
the oldest, though the Greek monasteries at
Mt. Athos and Mt. Sinai might contest the
distinction. Most of the Syriac treasures not
in the British and Egyptian museums and
in one or two private collections are housed
in the strange desert monasteries of the
Coptic faith which are known as “deirs.”
Many Australians who served with the Com-
posite Light Horse regiment in the Senussi
campaign will recall the four great deirs
in the Libyan desert, with their 40ft. high
unpierced walls and central wells. In such
as these are housed most of the treasured
Syriac manuscripts. These monasteries are
only accessible under very special circum-
stances, and to enter them one has to be
hoisted up the wall in a basket. The abbots
as a rule scout the idea of selling their
treasures, but, nevertheless, such deals have
occurred. Just before the war, a buyer for
Pierpont Morgan picked up a few bargains
in this way, but his prizes never went to
America. They were grabbed by the Egyptian
Government and he was warned not to return
to the country.
* * *
“G.S.M.”: Lawrence’s “Revolt in the
Desert,” stigmatised by “Light Horse” (B.
6/3/’29) as an “amazing piece of egoism,”
was actually only published to liquidate a
debt. Lawrence, at the request of friends,
liad published about 100 copies of “Seven
Pillars of Wisdom” for subscribers only at
30 guineas apiece, but the cost of this edition
dc luxe was so staggering that it involved
a loss of thousands of pounds. Having no
private income, the author sold the abridg-
rnent, “Revolt in the Desert,” to Jonathan
Cape to reimburse his backers. In this, his
only book, his “habit of posing for photo-
graphs” is represented by one small portrait,
A BED-TIME STORY.
“Oh, Peach, didja sew that button on the ol’ pyjamas?”
“No, Plum , I couldn’t find a button, so I sewed up the hole.”
by Augustus John. The emancipation of the
Arabs from their Turkish oppressors was an
old dream of Lawrence’s. His sympathies
were first enlisted during a walking tour
through Syria, long before, his “four years’
job as assistant archaeologist on the Euph-
rates.”
* * * *
“lan C.”: The palm for an explanation
for not voting at a Vic. State election has
been awarded by poll officials to the out-
back elector who said that he had only one
shirt. Desiring to cut a passable figure
when he went to the booth he washed the
garment, but the provoking rain prevented
it from drying. How could a chap, he asked
pathetically, exercise the franchise in a wet
shirt or, in the alternative, shirtless? And
how was it possible to reject such an excuse ?
**■ * *
“Exdig”: The French Army-of-Occupation
on the Rhine had a death-roll of 200 during
the recent cold snap in Europe, a reminder
of the dangers of soldiering even when no
bullets are flying. During the severe winter
of 1916-17, when there was snow on the
ground in England as late as May, there
was heavy mortality among Diggers on the
bleak Salisbury Plain, and the daily funeral
parades in the intense cold helped to pile up
the list of casualties. Yet morning parades
were continued, however bitter the weather,
until two men actually dropped dead in the
ranks. It was because of the experiences
of that winter that the A.I.F. camps were
shifted to Sutton Veny and thereabouts,
where there was some natural shelter from
the cutting winds.
* * * *
“Morris”: Winnipeg was “dry,” so a
Toronto doctor on the Canadian-Pacific in-
formed us. “Bone-dry! Say, if yew boys
stop off there yew’ll sure want a prescrip-
tion.” And, taking out his tablets, he booked
us up with influenza and a few other mala-
dies, and gave us each a chit for eight fluid
ounces of whisky. But the chief of staff
in the Winnipeg drug store eyed us askance.
“Wee dew not dispense Toronto pree-scrip-
tions,” he drawled, “but wee have a doctor
right here —third door on your left.” The
second medico proved as amenable as the
first, the only difference being that he charged
us a dollar each for the prescriptions, which
the drug-store autocrat dispensed with
alacrity. There was nothing wrong with the
medicine either, except that it worked out
at nearly thirty bob a bottle.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Following the doctor’s orders
to take a long sea trip is not always prac-
ticable, but an Auckland (M.L.) man claims
to have voyaged 12,000 miles and been com-
pletely restored to health thereby at an ex-
penditure of £4 12s. 6d. Purchasing a yearly
ticket on the Devonport-Auckland ferry ser-
vice, he got six months’ holiday, daily joined
the ferry on her initial trip, and voyaged
back and forth over the tranquil waters of
the harbor 42 times a day, covering about
500 miles a week. In six months this gave
him the equivalent of a passage to England,
minus the discomforts of sea-sickness.
* * * *
“Gumblegubbin”: Peter was one of the
veterans who clung to the horse-cab, despite
taxi competition. His stand urns near his
favorite pub, and as long as he was fairly
sober he would maintain his elevated post,
but a skinful would cause him to creep in-
side the cab and slumber. Sometimes a J?b. n
Hop would look in, and. if Peter was oblm-
ous, mount the seat and drive to the lockup.
The old straw-hatted moke liked being run
in ; he was unharnessed and fed at Ueter a
expense. Sometimes a friend, with a thought
for Peter’s license, would drive him home ;
the aiicient Jehu was used to going to s |Gep
on the rank and waking up elsewhere. One
night he awoke in a little grassy paddock
in an outlying suburb. The vehicle had
been left just inside the fence, and the un-
harnessed horse was feeding contentedly on
good grass. Someone who lived near by had
evidently driven himself home. “He was
good to the horse,” said Peter, recounting the
incident on the rank, “but he was a mean
cow, all the same. Instead o’ leavin’ his
fare in the cab he emptied my flask o’
whisky.”
* * * *
“South Oss”: Years ago the Jervbis swing
bridge used to carry trains over the Port
Adelaide River at short intervals. We were
repairing the hydraulic rams which operate
the swinging gear. One scorching day the
bridge was opened at 2 o’clock to let some
ketches through, a matter of a few minutes
usually; something went wrong, and the
bridge was open half an hour. Exposure to
the blazing sun did the rest. The massive
steel girders, 100 ft. long, expanded and there
was 14 feet too much of them when w T e tried
to close it. It took three hours with hoses
to shrink the bridge back to duty. A
wharfie brought a boat into use as a ferry for
foot passengers, and offered us part of the
“gate” not to get it shut too soon, but as
half of the heads rushed down from Adelaide
we had no chance of profiting by the offer.
* * * *
“G.F.”: How many of those who cross
Sydney Harbor could tell how Neutral Bay
got its name? It is simple enough. In 1791
there was a war between England and Spain,
wherefore Governor Phillip issued an order
that all vessels from neutral countries enter-
ing Port Jackson were to anchor in this
particular inlet.
* * ' * *
From J. Maclellan, who is comprehensive-
ness itself:—
Touching “Percy Pawnticket’s” paragraph (B.
21/2/’29), in which reference is made to me. I
did not come from the Shetland Islands. The
country round San Remo (Vic.) did not remind me
of my birthplace. I did not build a country resi-
dence there. I did not import any Shetland ponies.
Ido not own any Shetland ponies. I therefore have
not gb — ->« ■• s, va ,r
F
1 1 art
playe the
matt of
Birk< er.
in £ . of
Socie [.-j'
to o ket
pros. of
big : f ner
be r
is gi
Tt 'cts
man.’ f or
adve >to-
grap iief
Lone ake
of cl„,- r
Towards the end of last century Jj\ u „ uiu ,.tid,
who was then editor of Pi nch, got himself into
bad odor by putting in a good word, where possible,
for the London, Chatham and Dover railway. (Bur-
nand had a place at Ramsgate, and the L., C. and D.
people were said to allow him and his large family
concessions in return for the® write-ups.) Lord
Birkenhead, though a former Lord Chancellor, is
not seriously criticised for the devious methods by
which he and his earn a crust The modern rule
is that, short of criminality, any means of raising
that most desperate of all necessities, the wind, are
excusable.
THISTLEDOWN DAYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Over the reeds where the creek waters
quarrel,
Up on the hills where the cloud shadows
pass,
Out where the russet-red fires of the sorrel
Flicker along the green reach of the grass
Thistledown floating away on a crazy ’
Voyage enchanted through summer’s still
haze
Surely you’ waft back my dreams to the lazy
Long-ago wonder of thistledown days.
Days when the thistledown, laggard or early
Light as a laugh is and airy as foam, ’
Spun down a firmament placid and pearly,
Little lost stars that forgot to go home •
Row where the wren trills her wavering
ditty,
Hidden in green dappled frondage and
t ree . b
High o’er the streets and the spires of the
c ] ty 1
Out to‘ the salty wide waste of the sea.
j >v ui im, ova.
Thistledown days at a lifetime’s beginning
(Time but a shadow and care but a name),
Dreams light as they are all ottrs for the
winning
Easy the finding of honor and fame
Cuniberless days when the airs were wine-
heady,
Nights when the crickets sang songs to the
moon;
Surely the winter is with us already
Surely the witchery over too soon.
Day-dreaming here ’midst the clover and
sorrel,
What was the end of it? When was the
close?
Never a tiniest leaf of the laurel,
Only the dust of a withered dry rose.
Here in the haze of a doubt growing stronger,
Chill as the fog-wreath of winter’s dark
ways,
Leave me my dr«aming a little while longer,
Carry me back to the thistledown days!
victoria.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


Gose Australia's Gate
Vb
v
,
\ I fO
9
V^=
v :'■!
ui*»r
Iif8?
I V
Ki'j'
ni
! ,1
m
! A
<-
•a
m iwy*
&
r
mi
/i
it
1
IWMfIDRTe
wwm^Kv
7
Jl;-
K«
■%
* V in
2%
T^V\
W r fr i.,
A
11)
/
D
E—?
> IB:U
l
no Sun
O’Sr.Mio * bofTt-r-p e-
'R*l I
■ii’rnriL-tC r"
against unnecessary
whisky importations
PREJUDICE
and unthinking purchase lose Australian
whisky users nearly £2,000,000 per annum.
It’s a high price for a comparatively small community to pay
for one of life’s incidental pleasures. Yet, if legislation closed
the national gate against this waste, the individual’s pleasure
would not be lessened.
Australia produces whisky superior to any in the World —-
OLD COURT WHISKY.
If hundreds of thousands of good Australians did not realise
this already, the loss quoted above could be at least doubled.
Those responsible for the loss —and it’s out of their own
pockets—are those who have not tried Old Court; they are
those who heed the voice of Prejudice or who order their
whisky unthinkingly.
To them, we suggest the “test of taste.’’ A trial of Old Court
usually results in the conviction that it is second to none. And
—every convert protects both his pocket and an industry
employing an army of Australians.
♦
PRICE
BERRY
tfkc Vpricfc Purcsb


A ROTHWELL £6/6/-
Suit to Measure
Fulfils the desire of the
clothes-conscious man
to dress well with due
regard to economy.
There’s a host of pat*
terns to choose from,
including guaranteed-
dye serges. Tailored in
true Rothwell style for
£6/6/-
Write for patterns and self
measurement forms to Desk B
ertrety
ROTHWELLS OUTFITTING
EDWARD STREET
BUIS BAM E
Follow the
Chart
TEXACO keeps your engine clean.
BUY FROM THE TEXACO VISIBLE OIL
SERVER BOTTLE, AND ENSURE:
Freedom from carbon
Clean Valves and Spark Plugs
Protection against heat and wear
Economy in consumption
High compression and more
power
TEXACO
CLEAN-CLEAR-GOLDEN
MOTOR OIL
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Gable and Telegraphic Address:
“Dsherotel, Sydney.**
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
PERSONAL
ITEMS
A. G. Byrne, the new chief president of
the A.N.A. in Victoria, was formerly a news-
agent. He lives at suburban Armadale, and
represented the South Yarra branch at the
conference. He takes an interest in school
affairs —he is chairman of the advisory council
of Melb. High School committee —and is a
stalwart of the Made-in-Australia movement.
The sceptre has passed again from the
country to the city in selecting a chief, and
it looks as if elocutionist Ilowlett Ross
will get a show next year.
An interesting visitor to N. S. Wales is
D. J. Hertzog, a nephew of the redoubtable
Prime Minister of the South African Union.
The Prime Minister used to be a sheepfarmer
HARRY
HOLLAND, leader
of the M.L. Labor
party.
in the Orange Free State, and his nephew
carries on the tradition. Young Hertzog has
brought with him a couple of young Afrikan-
ders to reinforce the contingent which is
learning the mysteries of wool-classing at
the fountain-head, so to speak.
H. J. Diddams. who died in Sydney last
week, was an alderman of Brisbane for
years, and was Mayor in 1920 during the
visit of the Prince of Wales. He was a
Maorilander by birth and a printer by
trade.
Westralia hopes to entertain at its Cen-
tenary celebrations a grandnephew of the
Captain Stirling who planted the British
flag beside the Swan River in 1829. This is
Grote Stirling, a Canadian M.P., who has
promised to attend if his legislative duties
will allow.
Father O’Rielly, of Oberon (N.S.W.), is
negotiating for the purchase of a ’plane as
part of his parochial equipment. The parish
is spread over 7000 square miles; there are
12 churches from 20 to 25 miles apart.
Father O’Rielly learned to fly in Maoriland.
J. J. Virgo is returning to Australia for
the jubilee of the Y.M.C.A. in Adelaide, his
birthplace. One of the junior foundation
members of the S.A. Y.M.C.A., Virgo be-
came its general secretary, and passed on to
the national secretaryship; then, 18 years
ago, he went to the Young Men’s central
headquarters in London, with the title of
general secretary. An exponent of muscular
Christianity, Virgo did much in Britain and
Australia to dissipate the impression that
there was something namby-pamby about
the organisation, and his war work was
immense.
Frank Forde, M.H.R., whose loquacity
stirs Canberra commentators to wearied pro-
test, does not mind what these young men
write about him. Proof slips of Hansard’s
reports of his copious speeches go to every
paper in Capricornia (Q.) for reprinting;
the rest of Australia does not matter. One
editor who knew not (or scorned) local
practice told the pushing young man that
he. wouldn’t republish stale Hansard speeches
for Father Peter. He offered, instead, space
for a weekly letter of political gossip from
headquarters. Forde, who knows his business
from A to Z, jumped at the offer—and sent
the letter to every paper in his vast elec-
torate.
John Robert Barnwell, the lltli baronet
of his line, who has a farm at Crickstown,
Thornton Upper (Vic.), was in Melbourne a
few days ago visiting his niece, Mrs. J. C.
Gloster, at Richmond. Baronets are a rarity
in the city by the Yarra now, and the retir-
ing old man —he is just on 79—was pursued
by cameramen and paragraphists. The title
was created in 1622.
Adam McLellan, who was Minister for
Works in the first Vic. Labor Government
(Elmslie’s) in December, 1913, passed out
at Hawthorn the other day. Like Elmslie
he was on the moderate side, and - carried
some weight in the Uppah Chambah, of which
he was a member. Before ho entered poli-
tics he built up a good butchering business
and earned local celebrity as a maker of
sausages under hygienic conditions. Of the
12 members of the Elmslie Ministry. Prender-
gast and Lemmon, M.Y/L.A., and Jones,
M.L.C., are the only three still in the
State- Parliament.
Frank Coffee, one of Sydney’s best-known
men-about-town, died on Sunday. He took
with him a world’s record; he had crossed
the Pacific more times than any living man,
members of the sailoring profession not ex-
cepted. He settled in Sydney nearly half a
century ago as an insurance man, and, later,
went in for book-selling. The tall, handsome,
snowy-haired man never ceased to be a
patriotic American (he was born near New
York), but he was intensely proud of his
Australian family. Two sons served in the
A.1.F., and one was killed in Gallipoli.
The late Justice Higgins left estate worth
£69,186, of which £20,000 goes to the Royal
Irish Academy for the encouragement of
research into ancient Irish literature. Hig-
gins made a hobby of this subject, and even
learnt Erse. Like David McKee Wright,
whose enthusiasm for the Gaelic movement
went to the length of endeavoring to prove
that Robert Burns was an Irishman, he
was the son of a Protestant minister, and
was more Saxon than Celt.
Nettie Palmer, wife of Vance Palmer, who
has a story in the current Bulletin, was
a niece of Higgins, J. He left her £2OOO.
Thousands of invalided Diggers will have
kindly memories of Dr. Bernard Newmarch,
who died in Sydney on Friday. As Lieut.-
Colonel Newmarch, his small, bent figure,
smiling face and much-decorated chest were
regular features of the morning inspections
at “No. 1 General,” the Sporting Club. Abas-
sia, and other Cairo hospitals in 1915-16.
He was too old for service in the field —he
was well over 60 when the war began—and
when the A.I.F. went to France he went to
Ilorseferry-road, where he served till 1919.
The Rev. Warren, head of the Groote
Island mission, who has rescued a bevy of
lubras captured from peaceful blacks by the
treacherous Caledon Bay tribe, is a six-
footer, and utterly fearless. Every few
months or so he cruises across the Gulf in
the mission ketch Holly, bound to Thurs-
day Island for stores. Sometimes the tiny
craft is out of sight of land for 10 days.
During the nor’-west season the missionary,
his assistant, Perriman, and their women-
folk and youngsters are quite cut off at
Groote Island.
Still sure of himself at 85, J. A. Levey,
formerly chief inspector of Vic. factories
and chief clerk of the Police Department, is
off on a trip to the Cold Land. He re-
tired from the civil service on pension 35
years ago when J. B. Patterson was Pre-
mier, and has done a heap of honorary work
for the Charity Organisation Society in Mel-
bourne. He is one of two Vic. public offi-
cers who have managed to gain entry to
Melbourne Club; Daniel J. Maliony, of the
Mines Department, is the other.
The Veterans’ Home at Mount Albert,
Auckland, has a new superintendent in
Major J. A. Wallingford. Wallingford
won the British Army rifle-shooting cham-
pionship six times in nine years. In 1911
he transferred to the Maoriland forces, and
he went to Gallipoli as brigade machine-gun
officer, adding a M.C. to his collection of
medals.
J. C. Mackay, proprietor of an Albury
garage, can fairly claim to be a pioneer
of Lizzie in the backblocks. In 1904. when a
station-owner in the Riverina, he bought a
two-cylinder Darracq, and for many years
it served to carry him about the district
and to Sydney and Melbourne. The ancient
boneshaker is now in honorable retirement,
but it is still capable of coughing along
the main street, to the astonishment of the
traffic.
President Hoover’s mention of Victoria to
the Y.A.L. boys who met him at the White
House surprised many Victorians who read
about it in the cables, but he knew the Cab-
bage Garden pretty
well. He was asso-
ciated for a while
with the alluvial
mine at Moolort
that was worked by
English capital. A.
11. Merrill, now
Sec. for Mines and
Public Works, who
was then earning a
crust as a mining
engineer, chummed
up with him; Mer-
rill has vivid mem-
ories of an even-
ing with Hoover at
t h e Cumberland
Hotel, Castlemainc.
That was just on
33 years ago. Vic.’s
annual gold yield
was then about 24
times greater than
it is now.
G. V. OLDHAM,
manager of the
Union Bank,
Sydney.
A specialist whose work in thermodyna-
mics, acoustics and gravitation was known
abroad was lost to Melbourne University
when Dr. E. F. J. Love passed over. He
had been with the institution for 40 years
and had seen the physics laboratory grow
from a single room to the fine building it
is to-day.
Ted Findley, who will retire from the,
Senate on June 30, has had a fairly good poli-
tical innings since he first got into Vic.
Assembly in November, 1900. The Asserii-
bly show’ed him the door in 1901 because
the Labor Tocsin, of which he was pub-
lisher, had reprinted an article on Edward
VII. described in the Argus of the period
as “a foul libel on the King” ; and a sym-
pathy vote helped him to win a Senate seat
in 1903. His service in the Federal Upper
House has not been continuous, but mone-
tarily it has been better than a steady job
in Vic. Assembly would have been, even with
a Ministership in one of the short-lived
Labor Governments thrown in. Blakey,
who joined with Findley in the unsuccess-
ful appeal against the election of Lawson
and Elliott, had also a couple of terms in
the Senate. He is employed in the railway
bookstall branch at Flinders-street, Mel-
bourne.
“Tassy”: In a reference to the Speck’s
V.C.’s (B. 20/2/’29), the name of Hubert
Brettingham Moore was omitted. As a very
young captain in a Tommy regiment, he was
the first winner of the V.C. in the Great War.
Moore returned from the war blinded, but
later regained his sight. He had been a
pupil of St. Mary’s College, Hobart. An-
other ex-student of the same seminary,
Trevor Hedberg, collected the D.S.O. at Zee-
brugge—surely a unique distinction for a
ladies’ college!
Death has robbed Pakenham (Vic.) of
the picturesque J. It. Henty. He spent most
of his 58 years in the old town, but left
it to fight in the Boer War, and again to
hunt big game in the region of the Zam-
bezi River. After the hunting trip he de-
scended on Pakenham in shorts, and stuck
to the fashion until the end of his days. He
was a son of Thomas Henty, sometime Leg.
Councillor, and a grandson of James Henty,
one of the founders of Portland.
Downward, the G.O.M. of Vic. Assembly—
he is just on 82 —and Bowser ex-Premier and
ex-Speaker, will disappear from politics
when Parliament is dissolved. They were
elected on the same day in 1894 and have
held their Assembly seats for 34 years.
George Prendergast, formerly Vic. Pre-
mier and Chief Sec., who will be 75 in a
few weeks, looks all the better for the three
months’ spell he has had since the Hogans
were pushed out of office. The .veteran man-
ages to hit it with members of all parties.
It is getting on for 35 years since lie was
first returned to Vic. Assembly; he had one
break of three years while Watt sat in the
North Melbourne seat. He holds the long-
distance record for leadership of the Oppo-
sition; his term was just on 20 yea rs . ID '
two instalments. Three terms in office, in-
cluding four months as Premier, aggregated
only 22| months. .
Sam Mauger, formerly P.M.G. under
Deakin, has been chairman or member of the
Vic. Indeterminate Sentences Board for 14
years, and has come out with a statement
that the causes of youthful delinquency are
dead-end occupations, materialism, exagger-
ated love of pleasure and parental slackness
While having no use for the tyrannical
father and the nagging mother, Mauger says
that the family up-bringing job is too often
slummed. Middle-aged and elderly ictorians
have had a tremendous respect for Sam
Mauger since the days when lie was secretary
of the Protectionist Association and the Anti-
Sweating Board. Three decades ago it re-
quired courage and pertinacity to attack the
dragon of sweating, and Mauger—now il •
had just that sort of equipment.
“P.S.”: James Fletcher, who poisoned
himself in Sydney last week, was an English-
man who had been “Hospitality Officer”
in the N. S. Wales Premier’s Department
for many years. He was a brother of the
author of “Isles of Illusion,” and had wit
and a literary gift himself. His tastes were
expensive, and lie was struggling to prop up
his tottering finances by doing work outside
the Public Service when a newspaper came
out witli an exposure of the fact. It settled
any faint hopes he might have had of
righting himself. Ernest Watt, a local busi-
ness man, is the biggest loser by his failure.
A little over a decade ago two young Aus-
tralians seemed to have most of life’s prizes
in their grasp. They were Arthur and
Charles Verge, of the N.S.W. German Verge
family. Arthur —rich, popular, a brilliant
doctor and a champion footballer —was
amongst the first 100 Australians to enlist
in the World War. He went to Egypt with
the first of our expedition aries, and died
almost at once of enteric. Charles, his
brother, was in London when the war began,
and he also enlisted immediately. He was
at Kut with the It.A.M.C., joined the
A.A.M.C. later, got through without mishap,
and had built up a big Sydney practice as
an ear, nose and throat specialise when last
month he contracted an infection of the arm
in the course of his work. He was a man of
splendid health and physique (like his
brother he had been a first-class athlete) ;
the dangerous nature of his illness was soon
recognised, and no efforts that the highest
skill could suggest were spared to save him,
yet he died. He was as beloved in the Union
Club as his brother had been in the Austra-
lian Club; he was a tireless worker for the
poor, and his domestic life was ideal.
Heber Longman, director of the Queensland
Museum, and his assistant, Tom Marshall,
achieve creditable results with inadequate
funds. Longman specialises in palaeontology
and is never hap-
pier than when re-
constructing from a
few scattered fossils
some of our pre-
historic creatures.
His most spectacu-
lar result in this
field has been the
assemblage of the
stony remains of a
giant dinosaur
found on Durham
Downs. The crea-
ture was over 40ft.
in length; its right
thigh bone, fortu-
nately almost in-
tact, measures sft.
Marshall makes all
the plaster casts
and is an authority
on marine life. His
latest contribution,
a unique case of'
corals in natural
tints, is regarded
as the most scien-
tifically valuable
little collection of
its kind in the
world.
Dr. CRICK,
Anglican Bishop
of Ballarat.
Sir Alfred Young, K.C., who is retiring
from the Chief Justiceship of Fiji, is an
Oxford man who has seen a lot of Colonial
Office service, from the Seychelles to the
Windward Islands. He was Attorney-
General of Fiji before he became C.J. A
useful cricketer, he figured fairly frequently
in the Kent eleven before taking up with
the C-O. He is succeeded by K. W. Horne,
an English barrister, who has been C.J.
of Tonga for some years.
THE AGE MARK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He rose and proffered his seat to me in a
somewhat crowded tram;
And my lips said “Thanks” for his courtesy,
but mighty sure I am
That somewhere down in the heai’t o’ me
* another voice said “Damn!”
For clear it was that he held me past the
mere “old buffer” stage—
Though never was there a more elastic period,
I’ll engage—
Past mark of mouth, as it were, and fast
in the ruthless grip of age-
Snow-white and whiter may grow your head,
as Tempus edax flies,
And tin 1 hateful crow may heavier tread
round corners of your eyes,
£ut it’s mostly the things unheralded that
give you the worst surprise.
Our sires had many a warning sign to tell
beyond a doubt
Th’ “unhoped serene” of the poet’s line was
there or thereabout,
And a sharper one mayhap than mine was a
red-hot twinge of gout.
But ’twill come to you some day, my lad,
like a blow in the diaphragm ;
However jaunty your mien and glad, ’twill
make it seem a sham,
That courteous “Take my seat, dad” from
some kindly soul in-a tram.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


Poverty
Point
WHAT PRICE CHARITY?
“Extraordinary figures were quoted by N.S.W. Attorney-General Boyce in support of a measure aimed at ‘charity-mongers who live on the game.’ In many cases
institutions got nothing out of ‘carnivals’ allegedly run in their interest, although the receipts were large. In others, five hospitals got a net return of £274 out of receipts
totalling £7611.”
THE PROFESSIONAL: “Roll up, roll up, an’ empty your pockets! Charity’ll get a cut—if Charity has any luck.”
“Euroa”: I met the maddest man in Mel-
bourne at the Town Hall recently. He had
paid his sixpence to see the “Ghosts of
Menin Gate” thinking it was a movie.
“Ezra”: Commander H. G. Stoker, who
has been leading in the successful war play
“Journey’s End” in London, is a sailorman
turned actor who began his play-acting while
a prisoner of war in Turkey. Australia's
submarine AE2, commanded by Stoker, was
the first to negotiate the Dardanelles; it
accomplished the feat coincidently with the
Landing, an historical fact little known even
in Australia. Damaged through grounding
during its passage, it was afterwards sunk
by a Turkish torpedo-boat while doing good
work in the Sea of Marmora. In his book
“Guests of the Unspeakable,” Colonel Tom
White, of Melbourne, a fellow-prisoner of
war with Stoker, says of him : “He had some-
how acquired a guitar which he played de-
lightfully to songs of his own composing. A
cheerful and lovable Irishman, and an opti-
mist always, he early showed signs of that
histrionic ability that caused him to forsake
a brilliant career in the Navy for the stage
when he wrote, sang and played for the
‘shows’ that did so much to lighten inter-
minable hours.”
“Third Usher”: It is folly to permit a
vested right to be established (as it is obvi-
ously being established) by a movie co. in
the word “State.” There is probably no-
thing ulterior in the choice of the name, but
it is inevitable that in. many minds the
attachment of State to a business enterprise
will be associated with official blessing in
■some form. As with Federal, Anzac and
Royal, it is too valuable a word to be given
away.
“Spokeshave”: One of these days a club
known as the Melba Discoveries, will be
formed, with branches in every European and
extra-European capital. It is hard to track
some of Nellie’s innumerable proteges, and
if one did follow many of them up the jour-
ney would probably end in the humble cot-
tage at Brighton or Footscray whence
they started on their career at the instiga-
tion of the ebullient Dame. Melba has a
sanguine and impetuous soul, and when she
hears some girl or boy warble for the first
time she is apt to rap out a picturesque re-
mark. which is immediately seized on by the
friends and relatives of the accused, and
repeated by hundreds of industrious scribes
indifferent to the consequences. The result
is that a suburban singer, with no previous
ambition beyond a husband and babies, finds
herself a potential prima donna overnight.
The fact that some of Melba’s tips, such as
Brownlee and Danielli, have run into a place
only helps to encourage the hopes of the rest.
But the truth is that most of Melba’s suc-
cessful “discoveries” weren’t discoveries at
all. Melba merely came in with her sensa-
tional applause after hundreds of less im-
portant people had been barracking for the
talented one for years.
“L.H.P.”: One of the most remarkable
things in the London theatrical world is that
the Surrey should year after year be not
only tenantless and silent, but bolted and
barred. The Old Vie. and the Elephant and
Castle stand almost within a stone’s-throw
of it, and they are prospering, while this far
more famous house stands desolate. Its
handsome front—next to that of Covent
Garden the most elegant theatre facade in
London —is adorned with beautiful lonic and
Corinthian columns and graceful statues that
still look down on the teeming traffic. I
remember one night there when George Con-
quest played in melodrama a centenarian
sailor whose right hand was conspicuously
dirty. “Why don’t you wash that hand?”
asked the beautiful heroine. “What!”
screamed George; “wash the hand that
Nelson shook? Never!” I am told that
the chap who owns the famous house lives
in the country, keeps the keys in his pocket,
and will let the house only as a theatre and
not as a picture show.
“Dr. Nil”: At the first performance of
“Young Woodley” at Adelaide Royal I was
impressed by the brilliant emotional acting
of Lewis Shaw, aged eighteen. He never
overdid it, nor did he underdo it. One won-
dered where and when a lad of his years got
the technique, and how he used it without
taking from the ingenuous youthfulness of
the character. Yet the bulk of the mostly-
flapper audience screamed with a sudden
united scream of laughter at the most acute
incident. And they did the same at every
pathetic touch in the play—almost as loudly
as they cackled whenever there was an un-
veiled reference to “the facts of life” by
some of the schoolboys, and that was every
few minutes. Shouldn’t producers of such
plays give performances “for flappers only,”
so that they could exhibit their views on
promiscuity in relation to “the facts of
life” without making their elders feel sick?
It was no fault of the play; entirely the
fault of the sophisticated flappers. I was
very sorry for “Young Woodley.”
“Craiser”: “Applesauce,” the new piece
at Melbourne Comedy, precedes “The Patsy”
in the bibliography of Barry Conners. Before
he wrote it Conners was an impecunious
actor with a belief in his own future as
a playwright. He confided his faith to a
fellow-actor, w r ho said he had sufficient con-
fidence in it to pay Connei’s a year’s wages
while he forsook the stage and took to writ-
ing. “Applesauce” was the result; “The
Patsy” followed, and both were enormous
successes. Conners is now T said to be a million-
aire and so is his trusting friend. He stipu-
lated as a return for the year's wrnges that
he should receive a half of Conners’s takings
for the remainder of his life.
“Hamfat”: Fear of the talkies nearly lost
Union Theatres the lease of Sydney Lyceum;
the Methodist Conference decided by a mar-
gin of only two votes to extend the lease
for 10 years. When it was built the Lyceum
had the largest stage in Australia, and it
saw many spectacular productions. It had
fallen on slack times, however, when million-
aire Ebenezer Vickery bought it. as a gift
for the Methodist Church. The Methodists
still reserve a right of censorship over the
movies shown there —they vetoed “The King
of Kings.” The idea of many at the recent
conference was that the talkies would add
difficulties to the censorship.
“Cauboy”: I loathe stage censorships, but
I hereby move for . an msthetie censor. Since
a leading actress chased a cake of soap in
a bed sheet, there has been no more de-
grading spectacle in Melbourne than one
presented in “Ladies’ Night in a Turkish
Bath,” at the Palace. Two women
(who shall here be nameless), one obviously
selected for her bulk and the other for her
lack of it, appear in bathing dresses. The
fat one is in a skintight costume. Their
physical condition is no doubt not their
fault, but there is no reason why Frank
Neil should be allowed to exploit it for the
lucre of the lowest type of amusement-
seekers outside the stadia. It is a curious
commentary on our alleged civilisation that
Neil is permitted to display the deficiencies
of these ladies without protest even from
the dailies; whereas if he exhibited a nude
female of the most glorious proportions, such
as are to be seen in Parisian ballets, the
gong of the police patrol would be heard
outside the theatre within five minutes.
“Arradni”: On present indications Nellie
Stewart is definitely back in harness. She
will begin a season at Adelaide Royal on
Easter Saturday with “Zaza.” “Trilby” and
“Sweet Nell of Old Drury” are included in
the repertoire, and a tour of Maoriland
will probably follow.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Leila Pirani, who
toured Australia as Leila Doubleday and
did not gather all the bouquets that were
expected to come her way, got the lion’s
share of eulogy in the criticisms of the
Pi rani Trio’s concert the other day. Also,
Dorothy Helmrich, when she returns to Aus-
tralia in the near future, will be able to
show a collection of London criticisms as
rich in praise as any ever given to any
Australian singer.
“Cauboy” : What is badly needed to save
the legitimate stage in Australia from com-
plete extinction except for the flimsy purposes
of musicomedy is a committee of intelligent
playgoers to advise the Firm on the selection
of plays. Of late years Williamson’s theatres
have never been able to go right in drama.
The stony highway is milestoncd with leaden
failures—Muriel Starr in that dreadful
display of ansemie snobbery “Declassee”;
Margaret Bannerman in the impossible
“Victory,” a triumph of ineptitude; revivals
like “Diplomacy” and “The Notorious Mrs.
Ebbsmith” ; rehashes of such out-of-date stuff
as “Within the Law.” It is in the repertory
circles, where the Clewlows and the Beres-
ford Fowlers lead an obscure existence, that
good, witty, entertaining and competent
drama is to be seen to-day. It is indif-
ferently acted, badly put on and cramped
for elbow room; but, even so, it shows its
vast superiority over the piffle which the
wiseheads of the commercial stage regard
as box-office attractions. Coward’s “The
Rat Trap” and “The Vortex,” O’Neill’s
“Anna Christie” and even Ibsen’s “H'edda
Gabler,” if backed by all the Firm’s-resources,
would not lose as much money for their
promoters as the stuff which is keeping
several theatres empty at the moment.
“Shep”: The film recording Scott’s ex-
pedition to the South Pole, which was pur-
chased by the British Government to be a
permanent record of heroism for the nation,
will shortly start on a new tour of Britain,
the Dominions and the United States. With
it will be included “stills” from negatives
exposed by Scott himself on his dash for
the Pole: the undeveloped film roll was
found beside his body eight months after
the party were wiped out in a blizzard.
“Hamfat”: Although Bert Bailey has
spent a lifetime on the stage in Australia,
he has his first attachment with the J. C.
Williamson firm in the No. 2 company which
is going to take “The Patsy” on tour. Bert
and the Firm have a partnership in the
venture.
THE PEANUTTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the light has grown dim, and the music
And crisis have quickened the pulse,
And the seeming success of the villain
All right-minded folks should convulse,
I am called back to earthy surroundings
From the fanciful paths which I tread
By the blighter who sits up above me
A-showering shells on my head.
There’s the pagan who bubbles and burbles,
And purls like the Tennyson brook,
In a constant wiseacre assurance
He “knows all the play from the book” ;
But the chief of afflictions that curse you,
The outrage that makes you see red,
Is the peanut-devourer above you
A-showering shells on your head.
There’s the flapper who munches her sweeties
With noise like a suction-pump wheeze,
And emotional girlies who giggle,
Or blubber, and others than these;
But there’s none that so truly enrages
A chap to romance who is wed
As the friend who’s located above him
A-showering shells on his head.
N.s.w.
HOMPHREY REALE.


m
sA.
,
J
I
'A
m
%
m
'•>
%
m
'Mi
V/Jtr
w
?
\v> -N > ~-•- 5
hats have
irtw-T. an indefinable air of
style,- and their smart
appearance cannot fail
to appeal to the well-
Pressed man. Their
colors are fast and their shapes
permanent.
ayie
Sk
Meriis lOiili None
Obtainable at all the
leading Men’s Stores
A PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT HATS PTY- LTD-


ONE GLANCE WILL CONVINCE YOU!
ertrety
FIELD GLASSES
EXCEL FOR
ALL-ROUND USE
The quality of Ross Binoculars is plain to see—whether you look at them or through
them. Their good design and perfect finish are but' indications of their many
superiorities. Extra wide field of vision, clear cut magnification, and wonderful
luminosity are “Ross” features that will win your instant enthusiasm.
Special attention is drawn to the Ross -j-7 (illustrated) —a popular model for
all-round use. We sell Ross Binoculars at London Catalogue Prices, from £lO
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
23-25 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
PLAIN FIGURES.
CASH ONLY.
21.
EARN ALL YOU CAN—
SAVE ALL YOU CAN—GIVE ALL YOU CAN
Such was the good advice of John Wesley. You are, of course, entitled
to earn all you can, and no doubt are bending all your energies in that
direction.
Nevertheless, what you save will, in the long run, probably count for
more than what you earn.
Use the easy saving plan. Open a Commonwealth Savings Account,
and be faithful to it, for the sake of your future needs and that you
may be able to give when it is your duty to give-
(Cbmmonwcaltl) Savinas Bank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government ).
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Hit the Deck”
Criterion “Young Woodley”
Royal “The Wrecker”
Palace “White Collars”
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “The Desert Song”
Royal “The Marionettes”
King’s “The Flying Squad”
New Comedy “Applesauce”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
“Young Woodley,” by John van Druten,
produced at Sydney Criterion on Saturday
night, is a play which insists upon being
coupled with one of two adjectives—whole-
some or unwholesome. Set in a large Eng-
lish public school, it tells a simple story
of the love of a lad of about 18 for his house-
master’s wife. It was at tiitst banned by
the English censor, but the ban was lifted
and the play lasted out 400 performances.
The element to which some minds might
object is chiefly concentrated into the first
act, though it appears slightly at different
. points throughout the play. Schoolboys
are revealed groping after a knowledge of
life, knowledge which youths of their age
inevitably seek, and which cannot be taught
in any school but that of experience—and
it is taught there, more often than not,
with savagery, irony, anything but gentle-
ness. There is mention of women, in the
unhappy meaning of that fine word ; infer-
ence to going out with shopgirls, and
some laughter about a small boy’s ignbrance
concerning a big boy’s expulsion for having
been caught with a maid.
No doubt the mind which—for reasons that
need not be explored here—-sees in any
reference to sex a shuddersome piece of beast-
liness. or an excuse for coarse laughter will
find plenty of material in such a theme to
make it undo the safety valve of expression
and express itself according to species—by
shrieking for the censor or beautifying the
air with bar-room hilarity. Painters, sculp-
tors and some others have managed by in-
sistence to make their work immune from
such sweet-minded appreeiatibh, but writers,
and especially dramatists, have; a long way
to go yet. This might seem incongruous in
view of the fact that a vulgarity like “Hit
the Deck” can run along merrily without
making anyone’s conscience feel uncomfort-
able, but it is only when a tabooed therqe is
expressed in terms of art that it hits home
hard enough to provoke protest.
YOLANDE NOBLEY, one of ‘‘.The Marionettes’’ at Melbourne
Royal.
“Young Woodley” is art, and, being art. it
is as wholesome as mountain water. Actually,
the conversation of the boys in the first act
is fairly innocuous and quite pale compax-ed
with reality. But it gives the illusion of
truth, and it is necessary in the portrayal
of character and in showing a motive for
subsequent actions. The play opens in a
room occupied by four prefects, all old
enough to be aware of the biological details
of sex. One, Woodley, is clean, still inex-
perienced and romantic. Another, Ainger, is
normal, happily balanced. A third, Vining,
is disillusioned and vicious. The other,
Milner, has no color. The current topic is
the expulsion of the boy who was gauglit
with the maid, and this, chiefly exploited by
Vining. leads to other talk about the feminine
sex. Vining’s insinuations the others with
varying degrees of intensity loathe and re-
ject : except Vining, they talk with restraint
and from wholesome minds.
The housemaster has married a young
woman, who feels the disparity of ages.
A verse by Woodley in the school magazine
helps to attract her to him. She invites him
and Ainger to afternoon tea, but Ainger
gets involved in a cricket match and Wood-
ley goes alone. Diffidently he declares his
love, expecting her to resent it. She doesn’t,
and the husband catches them kissing.
Woodley goes, and she- gives her husband
the choice of not having Woodley expelled
or losing her, and fear of a greater hurt
to his pride makes him swallow the injustice.
Soon after, however, Vining, become sus-
picious, provokes Woodley by ragging into
going for him with a knife. On this count
Woodley is expelled, and the curtain falls
on him being led away by his father, leaving
his first love affair completely behind him.
It is not a great play, but it is a good
one. It is thoroughly moral; the drama-
tist attacks nothing but the system of cutting
boys off from all feminine influence at a
time of life when they most need what that,
influence, properly used, might give them.
With a minor exception or two, the play
is superbly acted. Lewis Shaw as young
Woodley is brilliant. He leaves the impres-
sion that he is young Woodley. There is
nothing on any Sydney stage at the moment
to compare with his emotional acceptance
of defeat in the last act. George Preston,
as Vining, overacts, but his performance is
also convincing. Frank Royle’s Stalky-
arnl-co. housemaster is excellent, and one
Trevor Brogan, said to be only 12, puts
one of the best flesh-and-blood small boys
on to the stage that this Showman has ever
seen. The part of the housemaster’s wife
looks difficult. In places it calls for the ex-
pression of subdued but" deep-felt emotion,
and Natalie Moya does not manage that.
The play has an outstanding fault in failing
to give the illusion that the happenings are
in a large school, that tnere is any living
background. Otherwise it has polish, beauty
and fine dramatic quality, and is altogether
a rare and satisfying entertainment.
* *£■ *
If the people who streamed into Melbourne
King’s to laugh
and blow their
noses over “The
Patsy” don’t
stream in equal
numbers into the
Comedy to do the
same thing by
“Applesauce,” i t
will jxrobably be be-
cau s e the last-
named handsome
emporium of the
arts hasn’t the
same accommoda-
tion. Barry Con-
ners, the now un-
believably opulent
author of both
appeals to the emo-
tions, has a delight-
fully simple recipe
—a nice girl whose
sweet confusion of
manner hides the
cunning of the
astutest of Eve’s
daughters; a lover
whose Bohemian
attitude to life, the
scandal of his
family, is the mask
to commercial am-
bitions which earn
their eventual re-
ward in a commo-
dious det. res.,
equipped with cen-
tr a 1 heating, a
vacuum-cleaner, a
double garage, a
tessellated bat h-
room, membership
of the Elks and a
partnership in a
rising coal busi-
ness. Then there
are the parents
who cloak their
affection by bark-
ing at each other like a pair of terriers; and
the rival for the affections of the girl who
hasn’t a hope in the contest because the
playwright has saddled him with all the
most unprepossessing human failings, such
as avarice, obtuseness and vanity, while the
producer ha£ aided and abetted the con-
spiracy by handing the part to Reginald
Newson.
The theme is as old as “Self Plelp,” by
Samuel Smiles. Where Conners scores is
in the carefully realistic and beautifully inti-
mate method of narration. In the hands
of the orthodox school of barnstormers, the
thing would be a tragedy. But these Ameri-
cans do know how to interpret their national
psyche. Alan Bunee is a most agreeable
juvenile. His performance hardly comes
under the definition of acting. Even to the
critical observer it appears to be merely an
easy flow of personal idiosyncrasies. The
same may be said of George Henry Trader
in his assigned role of a father the natural
nobility of whose
sentiments is com-
plicated by dyspep-
sia. Ruth Nugent
was thoughtfully
designed by Nature
for the part of
Hazel Robinson,
the girl whose irra-
tional faith in a
husband appa-
rently congenitally
incapable of hold-
ing down a job
makes the third
act a worth-while
finale, despite the
obviousness of what
is coming. Viola
Fortescue, Gertrud
Auga r d e an d
George Blunt are
all good after their
kind, Blunt’s kind
being of the afore-
mentioned ortho-
dox school of act-
ing.
* *
The Regent was
the second “largest
theati-e in Austra-
lia” to open in Mcl-
bounxe in a fort-
nig h t. It cost
£500,000, seats
3500, and 20 full-
grown adults can
stand upright in-
side the chandelier
if they want to. It
is stated to have
£50,000 worth of
art treasures dis-
tributed inside its
maw, and there are
600 miles of silver
wire inside the
£30,000 Wurlitzer.
As a theatre the
Regent deserves all that has been said
about it by its owners. It is im-
mense, and looks it. It is also beau-
tiful. Its architecture is an arrange-
ment of circles and semicircles, and
the rhythm of the curves appears to be
%well-nigh perfect. The auditorium, lighted
by 4500 lamps, gives an effect of grandeur
and splendor. It is grander and more splen-
did than all the rest of the auditoriums in
Melbourne lumped together. The proscenium
arch is titanic, and at the same time light
and airy, because of the delicate lacework
with which it is covei*ed. There are £7500
worth of carpets on the floors, and the chairs
and lounge seats cost £7OOO. Not only does
the organ rise out of the basement, but the
orchestra moves in a body to and fro as
well as up and down. The stage- could
accommodate a couple of grand operas simul-
taneously. The Australian architects and
builders, the decorators and. fresco-painters
are to be congratulated.
Still, after watching the “16 Pony Pav-
lovas” dance an average ballet and a pair of
acrobats turn handsprings; after hearing the
45 eminent musicians, led by their celebrated
conductor, through the intricate harmonies
of “I Can’t Give Yew Anathing but Love,
Baby” ; after listening to the talented virtuosi
at the Wurlitzer with its 2,500.000 electi'ical
contacts imitate fire-bells, a galloping horse
and “the arrival of a train at Spencer-
street” ; and after witnessing a couple of fair
to middling American pictures, The Bulle-
tin went home wondering what a cultured
visitor from Mars' would think about us.
* * *
At Melb. Auditorium, where world-famous
virtuosi were wont to appear in the flesh
to packed houses that hung on their every
note, world-famous virtuosi who have never
visited Australia, and possibly never wall,
continue to be heal'd. This incongruous
miracle continues to astound an Unsophisti-
cated critic who has been left a little breath-
less by the swift march of science into the
realms of art. In the latest change of pro-
gramme, Richard Bonelli, with the assist-
ance of the Fox-Case apparatus, sings the
“Pagliacci” prologue. The reproduction of
the sounds his photographed lips frame them-
selves to make is the best heard at this
theatre to date. A quaint feature of the per-
formance is his coming out and bowing re-
peatedly in acknowledgment to applause
whose echoes died aw T ay some two vears ago
in New York.
“Ladies’ Night in a Turkish Bath," the
vehicle for Frank Neil’s genius at Melbourne
Palace, displays an obsession with the phy-
siological phenomena which form the sub-
ject-matter of some artists of the intellec-
tual underworld. The efforts of such artists,
however, are occasionally relieved by a flash
of wit or a grain of ingenuity. The Bulle-
tin put its stopwatch on “Ladies’ Night,”
and the first gleam of fancy arrived at 0.5 —
55 minutes after the show started.
The Bulletin is inclined to be partial
towards Australian companies, but it does
EVELYN SCOTNEY, the Melbourne soprano, who is billed for
an Australian concert tour.
not feel obliged to wax enthusiastic over
this display—one of the dullest stage crudi-
ties it has ever seen.
There were two candidates for sudden
death on roller-skates as well as other good
acts at Melbourne Tiv. last week, but The
Bulletin dropped in to see how Nat Madi-
son would shape when removed from the
shadow of his portentous pa. The sketch
was a slight thing and no fair test of
Madison’s talent. Still, it was better than
anything Moscovitch pere allowed his son to
show in.
* ¥ *
Jack Barty, giving his first crop of jokes
a rest and trying out a new lot, was rocking
Sydney Tiv. with his robust humor when
this Showman looked in last week. Davey,
another Britisher and a good ’un, was also
getting the hand his excellent turn merits;
ditto the band of four grand-opera singers,
and the Katz party that manage the saxo-
phone so well that it sounds almost like a
musical instrument.
* * *
The Nellie Bramleys gave “Daddy Long
Legs” an airing at Bi-isbane Royal last week,
with the customary house-full sign hung
out. A batch of the Bananaland capital’s
small fry were roped in to do the first-act
orphans, and- they and the co. wrung out a
fine measure of applause.
Adelaide shows are waking up. The Con-
servatorium opera class has moved into the
Royal to play “Loehinvar,” with Mostyn
Skinner in the lead, Winsloe Hall, the com-
poser, conducting, and Frank Johnston pro-
ducing. Nicola follows immediately at the
Royal. An Andersonian “Whittington,”
with Joseph Brennan, Ida Newton and much
good Australian leg on view, crowds the P.
of Wales. Regent and Wondergraph com-
pete warmly in the “talkie” novelty.
* * *
On March 23, Fritz Hart will renew his
symphony concerts at the Melbourne Town
Hall. Local music-lovers never look a gift
horse in the mouth and at Is. and 2s. Fritz’s
concerts ai - e a gift. Last year they attracted
enthusiastic multitudes and left the com-
mittee with a large deficit, which anoixymous
benefactors met. It is said that the same
patriotic citizens are ready with their cheque
books on the present occasion. An item of
the first performance will be the local Louis
Hattenbach’s symphonic poem “Dawn.”


INSURE WITH THE
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Company—
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
“ LJOW can busy and successful men find time to read
* * the course?” you may ask.
The answer is that the Alexander Hamilton Institute
does not offer a course in the ordinary sense, but a Service.
Often a single idea gathered from a fifteen-minute session
with one sedtion of the Course, or from a personal inquiry
to the Institute staff, will repay the cost of the Modern
Business Course and Service many times
An illustrated book, “Forging Ahead in Business,” tells all
about the Institute Course and Service. It answers every ques-
tion. It tells exactly what the Institute can do for busy men.
It is yours for the asking.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
II CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W. B 5
INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
The WILD CAT
COUMN
Carlton Brewery, Ltd. (Melb.).
To Re- Nominal
Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1920.. 60,602 3 p.c. = 1,233 59,369 706,076
Unexplained additions, £32,458 .. .. 739,134
1921.. 62,195 3 p.c. = 1,234 60,961 800,095
Unexplained additions, £33,718 .. .. 833,813
1922.. 64,638 2$ p.c. = 1,196 63,442 897,255
Cash distribution, 2s. per share, £41,127 856,128
1923.. 94,002 5 p.c. = 2,392 92,210 948,338
Cash distribution, 4s. per share, £79,906 868,432
Unexplained additions, £10,780 .. 879,218
Reserves capitalised, £770,017 .. .. 109,201
1924.. 97,485 * = 80,083 11,402 120,003
Unexplained additions, £20,786 .. 141,389
1925.. 112,060 12 p.c. = 98,038 14,022 155,411
1926.. 121,010 14 „ ~ 114,379 6,631 162,042
1927.. 130,610 14 „ ~ 114,379 16,237 178,279
1928.. 131,188 14 „ ~114,379 10,809 195,088
*Div. at rate of 5 p.c. p.a. with 2s. bonus paid in
first half; 11 p.c. p.a. paid on increased capital
in second half.
This is the co. which led the way in the
big Carlton and United merger 21 years ago,
when half a dozen Melbourne breweries sold
their plants and goodwills to the new operat-
ing co. for scrip. The Carlton got 400,000
£1 shares, the bulk of them for goodwill.
Eleven years previously it had inherited from
the old Carlton and West End Breweries,
Ltd., a colossal debt (£893,502) and a huge
deficit (£411,302, including goodwill). Its
chief asset, apart from plant (£21,755), was
real estate with a written-down book value
of £316,225 —it had figured in the old co.’s
accounts at £671,354. In 1902, under
arrangement with the creditors, divs. were
limited to 3 p.c. until the co.’s slate was
cleaned. Later the holdings in other cos.,
etc., including the subsidiary, Victoria Brew-
ery Pty., Ltd., were written up £386,371.
That extinguished the deficit and created
nominal reserves of £262,983 at Dec. 31,
1909; meanwhile, the debt had been worked
down to £762,087.
Gradually the old properties were sold at
a profit on their written-down book values.
This and the undistributed profits by way
of divs. from the C.U.8., etc., enabled the
board to wipe out the last of the old debts
in 1923; in the meantime nominal reserves
had mounted to £948,338. With the obstacles
that had hitherto littered the co.’s path thus
removed the way was open for reconstruc-
tion. The old capital (£46,975 at Dec. 31,
1923) was increased to £816,992 at the close
of accounts in 1924 by the capitalisation of
£770,017 of reserves. Also the steadily-
mounting returns from the C.U.B. holdings
and other income, after deducting exes., be-
came available for distribution amongst
shareholders. For each of the last three
years a 14 p.c. div. has been paid with com-
fort —with more comfort, indeed, than the
figures in the table suggest, as will be shown
presently.
The real position, and, therefore, the
future of the scrip as an investment, is
mainly governed by the co.’s share interests
in the big operating co. Carltdn’s own hold-
ings and those of its subsidiary, in which
it owns all the shares, are as follows:
C.U.B. Shares. Book Value.
Carlton .. .. 400,000 Ords. £400,000
36,203 Prefs. 45,254
Victoria ~ .. 167,500 Ords. 167,500
15,160 Prefs. 18,950
£631,704
What these and the co.’s other interests turn
in is seen in the next coqiparison of revenue
figures:—
C.U.B. Vic. Co.’s
and Vic. Rients, -Surplus
Co.’s Divs. Interest, etc. Profits.
1923.. £84,000 £21,561 £1997
1924.. 84,000 24,211 4194
1925.. 89,430 26,004 6755
1926.. 100,883 27,821 2366
1927.. 106,336 26,985 5446
1928.. 106,336 28,638 5493
The board wrote the year’s net result at
£125,695. The difference between that and
the profit shown in the introductory table
represents the undistributed balance of the
Victoria Co.’s net earnings—£5493 last year.
The £131,188 thus qetted was 16 p.c. on paid
capital. The ratio would advance to a shade
over 20 p.c. if the £33,900, which was the
proportion of last year’s undistributed profits
in the operating co. belonging to Carlton and
its pup, was taken into account.
For the 12 months to June 30 last the
C.U.B. netted 23.4 p.c. on its £1,950,000 of
paid capital compared with 23.1, 21.6 and
22.5 p.c. in the. three preceding terms. And
the div., which had climbed from 7 p.c. in
1920 to 15 p.c. in 1923. has been at 174
p.c. for the 24 years to June 30 last, when
visible reserves of £1,177,173 had been accu-
mulated, subject to £BOO,OOO originally paid
for the goodwill of the amalgamated busi-
nesses. The immediate outlook for the
operating co. is one of bigger figures. Next
year a referendum is to be taken on the
liquor question in Vic., but if recent deci-
sions at the polls in other States can be
accepted as a guide, it seems unlikely that
the trade will be interfered with.
The next comparison of balance-sheet
figures show how snug the Carlton’s posi-
tion now is;—
1920. 1923. 1927. 1928.
Paid Capital* £41,987 £47,847 £816,992 £816,992
Debentures .. 284,160
Mortgages .. 4,908
Sundry creditors 1,166 1,060 6,874 3,282
Brewery freehold 90,000 90,000 90,000 90,000
Other freehold 147,554 56,508 57,461 58,189
Contracts of sale 120,746 96,147 33,496 21,187
Mortgages, etc. 13,112 73,660 182,269 206,749
Shares in other
cos. . . 678,698 649,115 706,398 706,691
•Includes calls paid in advance.
The amounts owing to the co. under contracts
of sale mostly represent the outstanding
balances on the sale of old properties. As
the money has come in it has been put out
again on mortgage, etc. The fluctuations in
the book value of shares in other cos. are
due to the Victoria Co.’s scrip being taken
in on a net asset basis—£46o,B94, less
£199,457 owing by the parent at Dec'. 31
The market, confident of the future, pays
495. 6d. for the pound shares. The net asset
backing, including the co.’s proportion (9s.
4d.) of C.U.B.’s visible lay-by, which is sub-
ject to goodwill (6s. Bd.), amounts to 345. Id.
The return at the current price is 5.6 p.c. on
a 14 p.c. div. basis.
Queensland National Pastoral Co.
t Dividends- Writ- Re-
Profit. Pref. 7 p.c. Ordinaries, ten Off. serves.
Dec., £ £ £ £
1918. .124,335 17,500 8 p.c. = 48,000 21,859 93,446
1919.. 94,176 17,500 8 „ „ 48,000 23,861 98,261
192 J.. 64,001 17,500 8 „ „ 48,000 24,833 71,929
Loss.
1921.. 6.096 17,600 Nil 26,606 22,727
Profit.
1922.. 10.550 17,500 Nil 14,272 1,605
1923.. 37,867 17,500 Nil 16,328 5,544
1924.. 37,072 17,500 Nil 11,293 13,823
1925.. 41,864 17.5P0 Nil 22,413 15,774
Loss. Deficit.
1926.-205,435 Nil Nil 23,404 213,125
1927.. 27,679 Nil Nil 29,180 269,990
1928.. 79,628 Nil Nil 33,155 382,773
Again—it is the third year in succession—
drought has withered up part of the assets
and thus deepened its bite into capital. The
worst experience was in 1926, when, apart
from allowances for depreciation which are
are shown as written off in the table, it
cost the co. nearly double its ordinary ex-
penditure in the fight to save as many of the
livestock as could be saved. And since sales
brought in less than one-third of the pre-
vious year’s income a loss of £225,899
showed up. In the next year (1927) the
struggle was less costly, nevertheless £56,865
had to be written on the wrong side of the
ledger in order to balance the accounts. Here
are revenue and expenditure figures:—
1925. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Sales, etc. ..£187,938 £60,323 £97,065 £75,317
Expenses .. 146,073 265,758 124,744 154,945
Depreciation.. 22,413 23,464 29.186 33,155
Last year more than three-quarters of
Queensland’s pastoral areas had a satisfac-
tory season, but no relief worth mentioning
was got in the Central Far West of the
State, where the co.’s properties are.
Moreover, the dryness extended further
toward the Gulf country, and the cattle
on the co.’s runs suffered severely.
After striking off £33,155 for depreciation,
or £9691 more than was so struck off in
1926, last year’s loss totalled £112,783.
Over the last three years the co.’s
losses, including £85,805 written off for
depreciation, total no less than £398.547,
leaving it with a deficit of £382,773 at Dec.
31, equal to 12s. 9d. per ordinary share. That
on top of the five thin years which fol-
lowed the collapse of the Australian meat-
export trade, and during which it was a
Struggle to keep payments up to the prefs.,
means a substantial cut in the 600,000 £1
ord. shares. Exactly how much is to be
decided when the position clears sufficiently.
Nor is that all. There is the growing pile
of outside debt calling for reduction. Mainly
owing to the fight to protect its chief earn-
ing assets, the livestock, the co. has added
£73,934 to the heap during the last four
years, making the total £202.551 at the
close of last accounts —£168,784 of it was
owing to the bank. When the drought
arrived the position was improving, chiefly
because of the attention being given to sheep.
Something like £BO,OOO w r as spent in convert-
ing Lucknow and Cork. To represent the
outlay there is about 300 miles of dog-proof
fencing and other improvements, which still
stand. But what of the sheep and cattle?
Since 1925, mainly as the result of losses,
their book value has been practically cut
in half: —
1920. 1925. 1927. 1928.
Cattle. . . ■ £492,228 £319,741 £223.053 £166,275
Sheep.. .. 100,215 150,134 59,676 41,580
Horses .. 35,002 25,638 11,724 8,996
The losses on livestock last year were on
account of cattle and horses; they were
on sheep and horses in the previous term,
and on all three in the year before that.
For the 12 months to Dec. 31 the shrinkage
of £59,506 in the hook value of cattle and
horses was only £15,811 less than the pro-
ceeds from the sale of livestock and wool
combined.
The co.’s unenviable position is further
reflected in this comparison of balance-sheet
figures:—
1924. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid Capital £850,000 £850,000 £850,000 £850,000
Liabilities . . 128,617 184,603 192,464 202,551
Leases, etc . . 296,821 322,855 303,332 286,065
Freeholds . .. 68,605 68,605 68,606 68,606
Plant, etc. .. 88,002 86,387 83,453 80 874
Livestock .. 503,147 324,412 294,453 216’,852
Stocks, wool.. 44,953 10,348 21,238 16,232
Cash, book
debts, etc... 8,412 8,871 1,391 1,150
The more or less liquid surplus, including
stocks, was only £31,683 at Dec. 31, the
shrinkage during the 12 months being
£92,935. Much depends upon the figure at
which livestock has been taken into the
accounts. Incidentally, the problem of re-
stocking will crop up as soon as conditions on
the properties permit. At present the all-
important factor is the weather. Since the
close of accounts the parched far-western
areas have had only light rains, and the hot
weather which followed wilted much of the
young growth. Heavy downpours are needed
to give substantial relief. Last month only
12 points of rain fell at Boulia. on the
Diamantina, and none at all at Windorah.
The co., by the way, is an offshoot of the
Q. N. Bank, having taken over in 1915 the
pastoral properties that were left on the
bank’s hands over 20 years earlier.
The prefs.—2so,ooo of them —are entitled
to a cumulative 7 p.c. p.a., and have prior-
ity as to capital. At the end of the current
year there, will be £70,000 ( 6s. 4d. per share)
accruing to them in divs., and the backing
at the close of last accounts amounted to
375. 4d. in net tangibles, mostly leasehold.
For the pound ords. 7s. 6d. is asked.
Greater J. D. Williams Co. (Sydney).
To Re- Nomina]
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves
£ £ £ £
1918.. 7,450 2i p.c. = 4,513 2,937 61,813
1919.. 877 3i „ „ 6,769 55,921
1920.. 18,764 10 „ „ 18,051 713 56,034
1921.. 22,394 5 „ „ 9,025 13,369 70,003
1922. . 7,101 61 „ „ 11,282 65,822
1923.. 7,142 61 „ „ 11,282 61,682
1924.. 20,369 10 „ „ 18,051 2,318 64,000
1925.. 17,712 10 „ „ 18,051 63,661
1926.. 17,426 10 ~ „ 18,051 63,036
Profit on sale shares, £l5OO .. 64,536
1927.. 18,382 10 p.c. = 18,051 331 64,867
1928.. 21,211 10 „ „ 21,332 64,746
The 10 p.c. looks liberal, but the position
cannot be judged entirely on the figures in
the table. Greater J. D. Williams is mainly
a holding concern, having displaced £63,700
of goodwill with shares in Union Theatres,
Ltd., and Australasian Films, Ltd. —£97,500
iq each —in 1913. In the same year Wests,
Spencers and Amalgamated all sold their
showing interests to the General Film Co.
of Australasia for scrip. The General Film
co. then formed Australasian Films, mainly
to do the hiring, and Union Theatres, to do
the showing. Thus all the scrip in the latter
two (operating) cos. is held by the General
Film and Greater J. D. Williams cos.
This co., during the latter half of the
last term, issued 131,005 new £1 shares,
making subscribed capital £311,511 at Dec.
31; there was then £22,764 of the money
still to come in. The new capital was
wanted to enable the co. to take up its
proportion—approximately 130,000 £1 shares
—of a new issue by Union Theatres, Ltd.,
making the total holding in that co. 227,500
shares, on which £204,105 had been paid up
when the books were last ruled off. The
holding in Australasian Films still stands
at £97,500 (par). In addition there was
£39,408 bearing interest with the two operat-
ing cos.
What these and the co.’s other invest-
ments have turned in is seen in this com-
parison of revenue figures :
1924. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Rents .. .. £11,045 £11,332 £8,802 £8 468
Dividends . . .. 14,338 10,725 13,975 17,388
Interest . . . . 2,143 2,673 3,066 3,243
Total .. .. £27,526 £24,730 £25,843 £29,099
For its last term Union Theatres is reported
to have paid £35,000 in divs., equal to
approximately p.c. on its capital. So
apparently Australasian Films paid 6 p.c.
or thereabouts. After making all allowances
considered necessary, including provision for
taxation, Union Theatres netted £97,639 for
the 13 months to June 30, 1928, which was
at the rate of 30 p.c. p.a. on its £300,000 of
paid capita] as against 30.1 p.c. and 23.7
p.c. in the two preceding years. That, of
course, gives this co.’s 10 p.c. div. a different
complexion.
Since Hoyts and J. C. Williamsons amal-
gamated their picture interests in 1926,
there has been keen competition between
the two big groups—Hoyts and Union —
which now control all the most important
picture-theatres throughout Australia. This
competition has made itself obvious by each
group building costly new T theatres in most
of the capital cities of the States and in
the wholesale buying up of individual pic-
ture interests throughout the Commonwealth.
It was mainly to finance the completion of
new theatres in Sydney, Melbourne and
Perth that the Union co. issued £400,000
of fresh capital last year. Also, it recently
bought part of E. J. and Dan Carroll's
interest in the Prince Edward Theatre
(Sydney). That followed the merging of
Carroll and Union picture interests through-
out Australia, thus greatly strengthening
the co.’s position in Queensland. Later still,
the Greater Wondergrapli co., Adelaide, was
taken over; also, a number of country and
suburban picture businesses were bought.
All this, of course, can be expected to
swell future earnings, but to what extent
profits will benefit is difficult to say. One
danger lies in the competition becoming
excessive. Incidentally, Union Theatres has
guaranteed the div. and capital on £600,000
of 8 p.c. pref. money in two subsidiaries,
one of which recently commenced earning
and the other is expected to be revenue-
producing this year.
Here is the position of the Greater J.
D. Williams co. as balance-sheet figures
show it:—
1925. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital .. .. £180,506 £180,506 £288,747
Liabilities .. .. 24,200 23,433 23,429
Freeholds, leaseholds .. 34,442 34,759 34,423
Shares in other cos. .. 199,500 195,500 301,604
Advances to combine
cos 32,551 38,540 39,408
Furniture, etc. .. 2,700 725 756
Cash, book debts, etc... 11,838 12,448 15,379
The debt is made up of a mortgage of
£lB,OOO on the Melba Theatre freehold (in
at £33,215), £4BOO of debentures and £629
owing on open account.
The value of the scrip as an investment
depends upon the earnings of the combine.
No information has been recently made
public concerning the financial position and
earnings' of Australasian Films, but, on the
basis of figures at Dec, 31, and assuming
that Union Theatres pays 11 p.c. in the
future, the balance of this co.’s investments
will have to earn a shade over 4 p.c. net
in order to pay a 10 p.c. div. on £311,511
of paid capital. The market’s opinion is that
the fully-paid pound shares are worth 275.;
at which figure the return is a shade over
7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div'. basis.
D. and W. Chandler, Ltd. (Vic.).
Towards
Net , Dividends Re-
Jan., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
12,083
1923.. 9,913 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 6,133 3780 8,303
1924.. 14,734 8 ~ 10 „ 11,600 3134 5,169
1925.. 13,749 8 „ 10 „ 11,600 2149 3,020
1926.. 9,714 8 „ 6 „ 8,400 1314 1,706
Reserves.
1927.. 10,583 8 „ 6 „ 8,400 2183 477
1928.. 10,654 8 „ 6 „ 8,542 2112 2,589
Added goodwill, £300.. .. .. 2,289
1929.. 11,261 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 9,245 2016 4,305
This co., with headquarters at Fitzroy
(Vic.), is in the hardware and general-
storekeeping business, which means that
many of its lines are not easy ones to handle.
Despite this and last year’s difficult trading
conditions, including the strike on the water-
front, which held up delivery of the co.’s
shipments from overseas, the business con-
tinued to expand. That was partly because
the management had built up a strong coun-
try connection, which now accounts for a
very substantial part of the co.’s turnover.
The board’s policy of expansion has been
developed largely along mail-order lines, fol-
lowed, when sufficient business was assured,
by the opening of branches. In this way the
co. set up at Warrnambool in 1927 and at
Bendigo shortly before tjie close of last
accounts. Also, during the last term its
Tasmanian connections were greatly strength-
ened by the purchase of all but 300 of the
16.300 issued £1 shares in W. Hart and Sons
Pty., Ltd. —the Harts had been in the whole-
sale and retail hardware business in Launces-
ton for close on 90 years. The scrip has been
taken into the books at face value (£16,000).
A few years after the present co. took
over the 48-year-old business of D. and W.
Chandler in 1922, there was a severe slump
in hardware values, which was followed by
keen competition and price-cutting. This
ate into net earnings, and the ord. div. was
cut hack from 10 p.c. in 1925 to_6 p.c. in
the following year, and lias remained steady
since. After attention to the prefs. the
balance of last year’s net profit was 8.3 p.c.
on average ordinary capital compared with
8.5, 8.7, 7.6, 12.6 and 13.9 p.c. back to 1924.
The business, however, has continued to
grow; gross profits, which were £57,156 in
1925, mounted by annual steps to £77.829
last year, when the improvement was £5232.
The chief difficulty has been to offset rising
costs and diminished profit margins by
adequate cuts in exes. These took £66,568,


:
WWi
4
‘ V: V V-
i'\H
•Vi
V':
sa
S.H'
y.*t
m
ti-
M 3
m
m
1
. r
-
±i£i i
.
1,.
>ss~
»jVI
yj
rum
m
sai
i>r .
m
WAV
aSS"
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
main
(To be Registered.)
CAPITAL: £160,000. Divided into 1,280,000 Shares of 2/6 each.
1,000,000 Ordinary shares of 2/6 each are now being offered
for public subscription, payable in full on applica-
cation.
136,000 Ordinary Shares of 2/6 each fully paid up are to
be issued to the vendors as payment for valuable
petroleum permit.
144,000 Shares of 2/6 are to be held in reserve for future
issues.
1,280,000
DIRECTORS:
ALFRED W. FORD, A.C.C.S.(Eng.), etc., Public Accountant and Secretary, Daking House, Pitt
street, Sydney.
CAPTAIN RICHARD PURDY, Master Mariner, Violet Street, Chatswood.
REGINALD A. McQUEEN, Accountant, Oxford Road, Homebush.
WILLIAM DAISH, M.D., J.P., Medical Practitioner, 15 1 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
(The other to be appointed at first meeting of Directors.)
SOLICITORS:
Messrs. TURNER, NOLAN & BENDER, Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CONSULTING ENGINEER:
W. F. ROBERTS, A.5.M.8., M.A.1.M.E., Terranora Building, Reiby Place, Sydney.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
A. DAVID SHAW, F.A.8.1. Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
AUDITOR:
(To be appointed.)
BANKERS*
ENGLISH, SCOTTISH AND AUSTRALIAN BANK, LIMITED, Corner Martin
Place and Pitt Street, Sydney.
REPORTS on the Company’s property by Mr. W. F. Roberts, A.5.M.8.,
M.A.1.M.E., Consulting Engineer, are set out in full in the prospectus.
Invest a few pounds now; it .may mean independence for you. Some-
thing may happen soon, oil may be discovered, then it will be too late.
Cut out and post this
coupon without delay
or obligations.
OVT,
frd
*
- df M/ *
/'°,Z e„ V +*' **
aV’ ’
-^jV 0
• a
■
.*>
•*o
rA
TO INVESTORS
With Large or Small Amounts
The Merron Estate Ltd.
FINANCIERS
Established - - - 1917
Authorised Capital £50,000
The Merron Estate, Ltd., will Accept Moneys for Deposit from £5 upwards
at the following rates of interest, payable quarterly.
3 to 6 Months 7 per cent.
12 Months 10 per cent.
24 Months 12£ per cent.
APPLY THE SECRETARY
THE MERRON ESTATE LTD.
LONDON BANK CHAMBERS, 18 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.


Are Your Invest-
ments ROCKY?
MORE THAN HALF
OF ALL REGISTERED
COMPANIES FAIL.
fir
ONLY THE EXPERT
CAN READ THE SIGNS
Australia’s leading ex-
pert is
“THE ‘WILD CAT
MONTHLY.”
MARCH NUMBER NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY. 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or "Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock + GF + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
The remarkable efficiency of Pioneer Wood Pipe
as a conduit for all liquid conveying jobs is beins
demonstrated on an increasing number of important
installations all over Australia. Low initial cost,
ease of handling, simplicity of installing, absolute
freedom from corrosion, and a life of useful service
exceeding by far any other conduit are points that
engineers cannot overlook. Write for book of useful
information. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove,
N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
W Soren Jensen, Mining Engineer, Assoc. I.M.M..
London, M.A.I.M.E., A.C.T.S.M., etc., 33 Boyle
Street, Cremoane, Sydney. Box 220D., G.P.O.,
Sydney. ’Phone, BW1106.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting!
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.uison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pea:
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament.
1888), hydraulic, electric and general Engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
MAY’S BROADCAST FERTILISER SPREADER
htt
mi
n»>
ran /
To Farmers and Graziers
The season is now approaching for
top-dressing your lands, and here
is the Ideal Machine for the job.
Spreads up to 40ft. 50-100 acres
per day.
SIMPLE—CHEAP—EFFECTIVE.
PRICE: £2l net f.o.r. Sydney.
For use with Spring Cart.
£2 extra for Motor-lorry attachments.
Call and Inspect. AGENTS WANTED.
AGENTS:
GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire ,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelati
Dy namite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS —DISC CRUSHERS —GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY" PLANTS.
Hadlields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and l
Foundries 1
Alexandria, Svdney, N.S.W.
Bassendean. Berth. W.A.
Branch
Office
[ 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
J T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
or 85.5 p.c. of last year's gross profits, as
against 85.4, 84, S3.T and 76.1 p.c. in the
four preceding years. Thus it has come
about that there is not much fat in the trade.
However, the co. has a capable management
which has been able to win fair returns
despite the difficulties in the path, and pro-
spects are improving. Still, capital would
be none the worse for a good deal more
support; the visible lay-by was only £4305
in excess of the £8237 of intangibles at
Jan. 12. „ ,
In oi'der to finance the purchase ot the
Tasmanian business and lighten the outside
debt, which was reduced £7707 during the
year, shareholders took up an extra £22.500
of pref. and £5OOO of ord. capital, making
the total on the share register at Jan. 12
£157,500, of which only £1650 was then to
come in. These and other things are visible
in this comparison of balance-sheet figures:
1924. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital. . £125,000 £125,000 £130,000 £155,850
Liabilities .. 15,741 30,806 46,557 38,850
Freeholds . . 25,933 27,516 30,625 35,927
Plant, etc/.. 13,313 17,604 24,483 22,280
Stocks . . 73,628 86,741 89,162 100,486
Book debts . . 24,302 26,901 40,144 29,201
Cash, etc. .. 8,324 2,594 1,256 2,112
Shares other cos. 16,000
Mainly owing to the opening of the Ben-
digo branch, stocks, at. the close of last
accounts, were £11,324 heavier than at the
previous balance. They are the most con-
spicuous item in the sheet; nothing is said
as to the basis upon which they have been
valued, and the current year's profit partly
depends upon that. However, taking the
past as a guide, it is unlikely that they are
overvalued. Book debts were £10,943
lighter; nevertheless the more or less liquid
surplus (£92,949), including stocks, im-
proved £8944. As to plant, some of which
appears to have been disposed ol during the
year, 36.5 p.c. of its cost has been written
off during the last six years.
The board anticipates a slightly better
showing for the current year, but the market,
which is not attracted by conditions in the
trade, pays only 17s. 2d. for the pound ords.
The return at that figure is 7 p.c. on a 6
p.c. div. basis; the backing amounts to
approximately 21s. in net tangibles. The
prefs.—there are 67,500 of them—which carry
a cumulative 8 p.c. and have priority as to
capital, are priced around 225. At that
figure the return is 7.2 p.c. Last year’s net
profit was more than twice their annual
requirements, and the cover figures out at
475. sd. in net tangibles.
Vale of Clwydd Coal (N.S.W.).
To Re- Re-
Profit, Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
June, 1920.. 12,923 10 p.c.= 3750 9,173 9,466
Dec., 1920.. 17,559 10 „ „ 3750 13,809 23.275
Reserves capitalised, £15,000 .. 8,275
June, 1921.. 11,100 20 p.c.= 9000 2,100 10,375
Dee., 1921.. 7,426 10 „ „ 4500 2,926 13,301
Dropped out of reserves, £llO9 net 1 0 0 5
June, 1922.. 4,393 10 p.c.= 4500 S ’
Dec., 1922.. 6,437 10 „ „ 4500 1,937 14,022
Dropped out of reserves, £lB2O 12,202
June, 1923.. 9,086 20 p.c.= 9000 86 12,288
Dec., 1923.. 7,928 15 „ „ 6750 1,178 13,466
£30,000 of capital returned.
Written off tax reserve, £3OOO 10.46 C
June, 1924.. 6,324 22J p.c.= 6760 10,040
Dec., 1924.. 6,265 15 „ „ 4600 1,765 11,805
Written off tax reserve, £lOOO. . 10,805
June, 1925.. 4,627 15 p.c. = 4500 127 10,932
Dec., 1925.. 6,199 15 „ „ 4500 1,699 12.631
June, 1926.. 4,491 15 „,, 4500 12,622
Dec., 1926.. 8,127 15 „ ~ 4500 3,627 16,249
June, 1927.. 7,773 15 „ „ 4500 3,273 19,522
Dee., 1927.. 6,990 15 „ „ 4500 2,490 22,012
Loss.
June, 1928.. 452 10 „ „ 3793 17,767
Profit.
Dec., 1928.. 381 - Nil 381 18,148
The figure's for the last 12 months reflect
the acute depression which marks the present
crisis in the trade. The co., which has been
one of the most prosperous of N. S. Wales
collieries, returned £30,000 (6s. Bd. per share)
of its capital in 1923, and then half the
remaining £60,000 was represented by bonus
scrip, and shareholders averaged approxi-
mately 16 p.c. p.a. for the four years to
Dec. 31, 1927. It works some of the best
coal in the Lithgow seam, and though less
dependent on inter-State and oversea orders
than pits operating on the northern field,
it has suffered along with the rest, partly
through the loss of this trade, following
which there has been keen competition and,
in some cases, price-cutting for whatever
business has been available. One result has
been a consistent falling away in the co.’s
coal sales over the last two years. For the
six months to Dec. 31. 1926, sales brought
in £47.379. Since then p. and 1. figures have
moved in this way:—
1927. 1928.
r ■ A ~— \ t A ~ '
Income June. Dec. June. Dec.
Coal .. £45,208 £38,771 £20,382 £12,904
Rents, etc. 591 1,033 1,428 1,153
Bricks .. 1,178 922 1 89 1 3
Total .. £46,977 £40,726 £22,599 £14,130
Exes. .. 42,204 36,736 21,751 13,749
Compared with the preceding half, the shrink-
age in income was thus 36.7 p.c. for the six
months to Dec. 31 last, as against drops of
47.4 p.c., 14.2 p.c. and 4.5 p.c. in each of
the three halves before that. After allowing
an unspecified amount for depreciation and
taking into account movements in
the year's net result was a loss of £7l com-
pared with a profit of 24. G, 21. IS and 20.0
p.c. on average capital back to 1924. Although
a loss of £452 was registered for the first
half of 1928. only five points were clipped
off the div. rate, reducing it to 10 p.c. p.a.,
but since conditions failed to show any worth-
while improvement during the last half, the
div. for that period was passed by. Thus,
for the first time for over 30 years, share-
holders failed to receive a half-yearly dis-
tribution. .
With the end of the old colliery in sight
the board decided, a couple of years ago, to
open up a new pit at Wallerawang. The work
was pushed ahead with vigor, and production
there commenced during the last half of
1927. Capital expenditure on account the
new colliery is now practically ended. M hen
the books were last ruled off it totalled
£113,450, up £23,865 during the year. To meet
the outlay and lighten the debt by £10,779,
reducing it to £45,352, of which £38,522
was owing to the bank at Dec. 31. the board
issued 45,000 new shares of 13s. 4d. each in
January, 1928; another 45.000 were offered
in August, but only 30,580 of them had been
taken up at Dec. 31, making paid capital
£102.040 —there was then another £7745 still
to come in. Thus, the excess of liabilities
over the more or less liquids, including stocks,
was reduced £11,075 over the 12 months:—
Dec., Dec., Dec., Dec.,
1924. 192 G. 1927. 1928.
Liquid Assets .. £40,804 £30,177 £28,300 £23,202
Liabilities.. .. 1,160 12,618 02,161 46,382
Surplus.. .. £39,038 £17,559
Excess Liabilities £33,855 £22,180
Apart from the new colliery, the old pit and
other fixed assets had a book value of only
£29,492 at Dec. 31, as against 145,709 seven
years earlier. The figures suggest that depre-
ciation has not been neglected, and that is
an important matter, especially as the old
workings have many years’ life ahead of them
yet. The call for wear and tear on the new
equipment is not likely to have been very
heavy thus far. However, it is well to remem-
ber that a coalmine is a wasting asset, and
that the capital expended thereon has to be
recovered out of the profits won during the
life of the mine.
H'ow soon the trade will be able to re-
organise itself and get costs into line with
falling values is difficult to say. Owing to the
marked increase of recent years in the
efficiency of combustion, and continued expan-
sion in the number of oil-burning ships, some
of the old trade is no longer there to be. re-
covered. While there are too many coalmines
and too many coalminers, only those cos. with
secured markets, ensuring the sale .of an
adequate output, are likely to be able to win
reasonable returns on their capital. And until
the present waste in the industry is elimi-
nated by a reduction in the number of un-
economical pits, by merger or otherwise, the
outlook for colliery scrip as an investment is
uncertain.
Given a market for its products there
appears to be little, doubt about this co.’s
ability to earn profits. Only a year ago the
scrip, fully paid to 13s. 4d., was in demand
at 235. 9d. Now buyers are difficult to
attract; sellers recently asked 205.. but there
have been no bids for some weeks. At the
close of accounts at Dec. 31, the net asset
backing amounted to 14s. 7d. per share, most
of it represented by the new colliery, worth
what it can earn.
Blenheim Extended (N.Z.) Oil.
This is a Sydney float to take over about
30 acres at New Plymouth, Maoriland, and
prospect for oil there. Nominal capital is
£lOO.OOO in 10s. shares, of which 100,000
are offered; 40,000 paids go to the vendor
and the balance (60,000 shares) is in pickle.
The co.’s property adjoins that of the Blen-
heim Oil Well Reclamation Co., which re-
cently struck flow oil and whose bore was
temporarily put out of action by a blow-out
at the beginning of this month; the oil is
being sold at the bore-head for 50s. per barrffl
of about 40 gallons. The Taranaki district,
lias been well prospected and several small
flows have been' struck there, but, thus far,
none have been large enough to be worth
much to investors. Dr. Bell, Dr. Clapp and
half a dozen other experts have reported
favorably on oil prospects in the district.
The co.’s geologists, G. S. Morgan and W.
Gibson, say that the petroliferous strata at
Moturoa lie at about 1000 ft., 2000 ft. and
3000 ft. below sea-level. To date the most pro-
ductive horizon has been the deepest. The
prospectus figures the cost of putting down
the first bore to about 2500 ft. at £15,000. Of
course the drill alone can decide the ultimate
fate of the property as au oil-bearing area.
Fom 1910 to 1917 about two million gallons
of oil were produced around New Ply-
mouth.
The steady rise in copper prices has been
the outstanding feature of the base metals
market, and with spot at £9O 7s. 6d. per ton.
as it was last week —the figure was around
£6O per ton at the close of 1927 —the pros-
pects for those who are now T engaged in re-
opening the big Queensland and other Aus-
tralian shows seem rosier than they have
been for many a day. The world’s produc-
tion of blister in 1928 (1,910,000 tons) was
about 235,000 tons above the previous year’s
figure, most of the increase being on account
of American output. During the current
year both total sales and prices have con-
tinued on the up-grade. Recent official
figures published by the Copper Trust indi-
cate that, though America is producing GO
p.c. of the world’s copper, she is using most
of that herself, only 10 per cent, of her out-
put remaining for export. The present high
price of the metal is largely due to the con-
tinued industrial activity in America and a
stronger demand from European sources. The
copper mining activity which has recently
taken place in Australia has been repeated
elsewhere, where large deposits have been
lying unworked owing to low prices. Some
of the big low-grade Rhodesian properties
have recently come in for attention. There
is, of course, the danger of over-production.
Much depends upon continued industrial acti-
vity. One of the stabilising influences last
year was the formation of the big American
Copper Exporters, Incorporated, with power
to fix prices and distribution ratios outside
the U.SiA. for American producers.
Jfc * * *
The next month will be an anxious one
for Roma Oil Corp. In its No. 2 bore
there has been a fine gas flow without
commercial oil, so far. But the test
is proceeding and can be carried down to
3900 ft. from where the hole is being cemehted
off to the bottom, which is in the vicinity of
4000 ft. If nothing is got above 3900 ft. pros-
pects look blue for this particular bore, for
the unconformable non-petroliferous series
lies below in the shape of inclinated rocks at
less than 4000 ft. Since no one looks for oil
in that sort of rocks the decision of the
co.’s geologist to recommend that boring cease
and to test the sands above must be con-
sidered the only one possible. In the mean-
time the Minister for Mines is kept busy in
the front line of defence repelling the sharp
attacks of critics on oil prospecting in *hc
district.
* * * *
The B. H. Prop, is not saying too much
about it outside, but it has found the new Hen-
derson process to be successful in re-treating
its old dump material and is getting even
better results than anticipated. Mechanical
faults in the slime plant, due to the long
stoppage, hindered the men on the job at first,
but now they are putting through 2000 tons
a week, which means two years’ work at
that rate. The concentrates give a return
of about 45 p.c., which is 3 p.c. more than
was expected.
* * * *
Though the old main workings of the Mt.
Bischoff Tin 00. (Tas.) have been closed
owing to poor returns and increased costs,
the initial difficulties in opening up the allu-
vial deposits of its North Valley section have
been overcome, and sluicing has been going
on there for the last three months, pix men
are employed stoping at the mine, and at the
mill 10 heads of stamps dropped for 174
hours, crushing 510 tons of ore from the
bins, mine stopes, hnd North Valley seconds
for the fortnight to March 8. For the same
period the calciners treated 332 tons of
pyrites for an output of eight tons of tin
oxide. For the clean-up in the North Valley
the plant was running for 918 hours, and put
through 21,800 cubic yards of wash for a
yield of 20 tons 4cwt. of tin oxide, being
slightly over 21b. of oxide to the yard.
No mention is made of costs per cubic yard.
* * * *
Encouraged by advancing prices in the
copper market, a W.A. syndicate has been
formed to develop the Ilgararrie copper lodes,
180 miles north of Meekatharra. The de-
posits have been worked previously, but
activities ceased during the period of low
prices for the metal. The copper percentage
of the ore is high, and so is the cost of
transport. It is intended to send a shipment
of ore to Port Kembla. When the account
sales is received syndicate members should
have a good idea of the prospects of the
show.
* * * *
The demand, principally from America,
that has set in for antimony should further
stimulate mining activities at ' Wiluna
(W.A.), where the metal is present in high
percentages in a number of leases close to
the big mine. As the antimony occurs in
gold-bearing lodes its presence has been
hitherto an obstacle in mining them. Anti-
mony ore is a smelting proposition, and
smelting under present conditions cannot be
considered at Wiluna. The improved price of
the metal, however, makes transport of the
ore, or a concentrate, to smelting works
feasible and this aspect is being considered.
Antimony is largely used as an alloy in mak-
ing metal bearings.
jjs jjj J?C *
The job of finding new mines on the
Westralian goldfields is getting harder. Up-
wards of a score of “new finds” were reported
last year, hut not one was worth making a
fuss about. Twin Hills, on the North Cool-
gardie field, was hailed for a while as a real
good thing, blit one by one options taken
there have been abandoned, Mutooroo Co.
being the latest to give up. At present a
few small Adelaide cos. are nosing round the
Westonia field in search of something to have
a flutter on, but, with the exception of
McCahons, they have been thus far unsuc-
cessful in their quest.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia easily leads in the race
for low working costs amongst Westralia’s
gold cos. During February it treated 13,294
tons at a cost of £10,307; the gold yield
was worth £10,509. A great deal lias been
heard in W.A. about treating ore for £1
per ton, but this co. is the only one that
has managed to do it so far. The co. would
do better with its gold output were it able
to extract the higher grade ore in the lower
levels, but labor difficulties preclude this.
* & *


BLENHEIM EXTENDED (N.Z.) OIL LTD
Room 25, 3rd Floor, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS (To be Registered under the Companies Act of New South Wales)
OBJECTS:
This Company is being formed, inter alia, for
the purpose of boring and mining for Petroleum
and Natural Gas and, by other suitable means,
of commencing and developing the commercial
production of these commodities in and upon
certain lands situated at New Plymouth, Parish
of Paritutu, Dominion of New Zealand, and
to adopt and carry into effect the agreement
hereinafter mentioned.
BLENHEIM OIL WELL RECLAMATION
COMPANY, LIMITED,
is within about half a mile of this Company’s
area, being situated between Paritutu and
Egmont. The Blenheim bore flowed on several
occasions, viz., on Feb. I, 2,4, 19, 21, 23
and 28, culminating in an extraordinary blow-
out, as reported. (Vide Chairman of Com-
pany’s report).
The most encouraging strike ever made on the
New Plymouth Fields has been made in close
proximity to our property.
BLENHEIM EXTENDED (N.Z.) OIL LTD.
AN INVESTMENT—NOT A SPECULATION.
Blenheim Extended is by far the best oil pro-
position in Australasia to-day. Vfliat stronger
evidence can be shown than the actual flowing
of oil at the Blenheim Bore, about 800 yards
away from our property?
Samples of this oil can be seen at the office of
the Company under seal by Bank of New
Zealand, New Plymouth, certified to by the
Chairman of the Stock Exchange, New Ply-
mouth, N.Z.
Blenheim Extended (N.Z.) Oil, Ltd., shares
are good buying. Geological history em-
phasises New Plymouth’s possibilities.
New Plymouth (N.Z.) shows considerable
promise.
The agreement affecting this Company is as
follows:
(1) Agreement between Allan M. Neilley, as
Vendor of the first part, Charles A. Sturman,
of the second part, and A. D. Benjamin, as
Trustee for and on behalf of the Company, of
the third part, in which is set out the con-
siderations payable by the Company, and
refers to the rent, etc., payable for the pro-
perty to be acquired by the Company.
SHARE ISSUE.
The Memorandum and Articles of Association will be
in accordance with the requirements of the Sydney
Stock Exchange. Application will be made in due
course for the listing of the Company’s Shares on the
Stock Exchanges throughout Australia and Dominion
of New Zealand.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
Application for shares should be made in Australia
on form attached and forwarded, with cheque made
payable to Blenheim Extended (N.Z.) Oil, Limited,
and crossed “Not Negotiable” for application money
of 2/6 per share to the Secretary, John C. Neilley,
Room 25, 3rd Floor, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney. (’Phone:
84464.)
Enquiries for
Prospectus.
Fill In and Return to the
SECRETARY, BLENHEIM
EXTENDED ( N.Z .) OIL, LTD.,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
Telephone, 84464.
BLENHEIM
BORE
• REMARKABLE
BLOW-OUT!
(March 1, S.M.H.).
WELLINGTON (N.Z.), Friday.
A terrific blowout occurred at
the Blenheim oil bore this afternoon,
mud being forced to a great height
by a strong pressure of gas. The
derrick was flooded by oil and mud
and the locality leeward was
drenched for several chains. Resi-
dents were startled by the roar of
gas accompanying the blow-out.
Mud and small stones fell on the
roofs of houses several chains
distant.
The Blenheim Company states
that oil has been flowing from the
bore while the bailing plunger is
being worked, the oil sometimes
spurting 20ft. high.
This
Investment
MAY MEAN
Your Financial
Independence
INVEST IN
BLENHEIM
EXTENDED
(N.Z.) OIL LTD.
A “Gusher” Considered to
Be Certain.
FILL IN YOUR
APPLICATION
FOR NOW
IS YOUR
OPPORTUNITY.
Capital - - £lOO,OOO
In 200,000 Shares of 10/- Each.
100,000 shares are now offered for Public
Subscription, payable as follows:
2/6 per share on application,
2/6 per share on allotment,
and in calls, not to exceed 6d. per
month . per share, as and when
required.
40,000 shares credited as fully paid up will
be issued to the Vendor and/or his
nominees in part payment under the
agreement hereinafter mentioned.
60,000 shares will be held in reserve for issue
at the discretion of the Directors.
DIRECTORS:
FRED C. EMANUEL, Esq., Solicitor, 115 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
ALLAN M. NEILLEY, Esq., Broker, Medusa Street,
Mosman.
EDMUND J. H. WILSON, Esq., Theatre Proprietor,
177 Doncaster Avenue, Kensington.
W. SOREN JENSEN, Mining Engineer, Assoc. I.M.M.
London, M.A.1.M.E., A.C.T.S.M., etc., 33 Boyle
Street, Cremorne.
E. P. TRESIDDER, M.L.A., 1 7 Wansey Street, Ken-
sington.
SOLICITORS:
FRED. C. EMANUEL & PEARCE, 115 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
NICHOLSON, BENNETT & KIRKBY, New Plymouth,
New Zealand.
BANKERS:
ENGLISH, SCOTTISH & AUSTRALIAN BANK,
Martin Place, Sydney.
BROKERS TO THE COMPANY:
ALBAN GEE & CO., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney (Members
of Sydney Stock Exchange).
E. R. C. GILMOUR, Esq., New Plymouth, New Zealand
(Member Taranaki Stock Exchange).
AUDITORS:
(To be appointed.)
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
JOHN C. NEILLEY, Accountant, 82 Pitt Street,
Sydney. ’Phone, 84464.
THE SHARES OF THIS COMPANY ARE 10/-
EACH, AND MAY BE PURCHASED EITHER BY
PAYMENT IN FULL UPON APPLICATION OR ON
THE FOLLOWING TERMS:—
2/6 per Share with application, and a further 2/6
per Share on allotment, and the balance at the rate
of 6d. per Share per month. Therefore, if you are
applying for—
-20 Shares on terms, send £2/10/- with your application
Apply for Shares on the accompanying Application
Form.
Make all cheques payable to the Company—“ Blenheim
Extended (N.Z.) Oil, Ltd.”—striking out “Bearer”
and crossing your cheque “Not Negotiable.” The
Company will not be responsible for cheques not so
marked.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES:
TO the Directors,
BLENHEIM EXTENDED (N.Z .) OIL, LTD.,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
GENTLEMEN,—
l beg to enclose herewith the sum of £
being a deposit of 2J6 per share
payable on application for
shares of 10/- each in the capital of the abovementioned
Limited Company. I hereby request you to allot me
that number of shares upon the terms of the Prospectus
of date the ‘7th day of March, 1929, and subject to
the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the
Company. I agree to accept such shares, or any lesser
number that may be allotted to me, upon the said
terms, and agree to pay the further sum of 2/6 per share,
on allotment, and the balance by calls, not to exceed
6d. per share, at intervals of not less than one month,
and I authorise you to place my name upon the Register
of Shareholders in respect of any shares so allotted to me.
NAME (IN FULL )
(Mr., Mrs. or Miss.)
ADDRESS ...;
OCCUPATION AND DESCRIPTION
ORDINARY SIGNATURE
DATE 1929.


By appointment to H.M. the King.
Invest in the best
LIGHT and POWER PLANTS
are unequalled on
the world’s markets,
and their installa-
tions in Australia
form an unique and
faultless record of
efficiency.
“Electolite” plants,
made by Boulton
and Paul, world-
famous engineers,
have been selling in
Australia for the
past seven years, yet
there are
H
TSk
m
1
No dissatisfied “Electolite” users;
No “Electolite” plants out of action; and
No “Electolite” plants have been re-
placed by plants of another make.
"Electolite’s” record of achievement
is exceedingly important informa-
tion to every man and woman in
the country who is contemplat-
ing the advisability of install-
ing the incomparable com-
fort and convenience of
electric light and power.
o'-
TV vS -'s S V 6V^ A 'V^t-
vV° rts °^ C S A tC c ° \\»
v \s ;. ♦'v. ® ,i»* i#.i , « »vve V A <
s °» 'S s 'f S<S«'V V,
**« \ „ K » x»v* c »\v« VA .„ ®
\> e
V'.-aV"’ V'' s-C" c > \\ct'- ,vc '-69 <j9 s \,&e\ V9 e
V,
•>>\ *■* \>» xVS *® c S f
* V*
„■>& :>io
:ao x >;
V^ 1
n^ L „pf9 . c tv v tCr « e c i N>„(> v
Jo* Scv °V- c-s.^ 0
GO"'t
rf&o
r** v°\
v.,vf^rri
«fv* c
* v *§**’
vV\ 6 s.
At the left is a
cutting from This
Bulletin of the 6th
February last, giving
an interesting
account of an invita-
tion visit made by
their representative
to Boulton and
Paul’s great -work-
shops. where, as well
as “Electolite” and
many other products
are manufactured,
the structure of the
great Airship RlOl
was built.
When in town this Easter do not miss seeing the
fine “Electolite” exhibit at the
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SHOW
Stand 41, Park Road/
THE PRICES FOR “ELECTOLITE”
are no higher than those charged for inferior and much
less reliable plants.
EASY TERMS MAY BE ARRANGED.
Edmunds Bros. (SL Co.
OFFICES:
31a Clarence Street, SYDNEY. 187 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
3a Gilbert Place, ADELAIDE.
City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
Resident Factory Representative:
R. R. FOULSER, 154 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
SUNSHINE
CULTIVATING
AND SEEDING
MACHINERY
THE “SUNDERCUT” STUMP JUMP
DISC CULTIVATING PLOUGH
10-disc ; cuts 5 feet.
14-disc cuts 7 feet.
Unequalled for cultivating hard set fallow,
or fallow covered by heavy weed growth,
paddy-melon, stinkwort, thistles, etc.
Does splendid work in virgin Mallee soils.
Levers fitted for team or tractor pull.
n
si
$2
Bi
i
fi%
W
m
THE “SUNTYNE” COMBINED GRAIN
AND FERTILIZER DRILL AND
SPRING TYNE CULTIVATOR.
17 tyne, sows 8 rows, covering 5 ft.
25 tyne, sows 12 rows, covering ft.
29 tyne, sows 14 rows, covering B^ft.
33 tyne, sows 16 rows, covering 9|ft.
41 tyne, sows 20 rows, covering 12ft.
49 tyne, sows 24 rows, covering 14ft.
Cultivates and sows to any desired depth.
Forms a compact seed bed with thoroughly
pulverised mulch. Tractor Hitch and
Lever can be fitted when ordered.
Write for descriptive literature, prices
and particulars of extended terms.
H. V. McKAY PTY.,LTD.
Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine.
Branches and Agencies:
664 BOURKE STREET WEST, MELBOURNE.
95-97 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
Corner MURRAY AND KING STREETS, PERTH.
H. V. McKAY (QUEENSLAND), LTD., STANLEY STREET. SOUTH
BRISBANE.


PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
Peapes extend a cordial invita-
tion to all Show visitors to
make a tour of the Peapes
Building, to leave measurements
for reference in future mail
orders if desired, and to utilise
the Pepys Room for reading,
smoking, resting and conducting
interviews or correspondence.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
■p;
Site
m
THE GREYS
SIZEnTWO
SILKCUT VIRGINIA
DRAP
LONDON
EYS
£® for fid. CIGARETTES for 1/&
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys”
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a “GREYS.”
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights”
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
Monday to Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/6.
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 16/-, or
6 la carte, minimum, 15/-
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 6, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 6.30, 5/-
Jack Woods’ Ambassadors Dance
Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“A. Bet”: A swaggie was drowned crossing
a creek near the pub, and the body was
stored in the lock-up by the local John Hop.
Late that night a very . drunken shearer
was shot into the temporary morgue. Find-
the only stretcher occupied he unceremoni-
ously hauled the other chap off and turned in.
AVakened in the morning he found himself
facing the cold accusing glares of the corpse
and the cop. “S’welp me Moses, Sergeant,”
he spluttered, “he hit me first!”
* * # *
“Eureka”: “Now, Jacky,” said the boss
as they alighted from the train at Bombala,
SAFETY FIRST.
“What’s he keep stopping for?”
“He’s afraid I’ll say ‘Whoa’ and. he won’t hear it.’’
“we will get a couple of horses and ride
down the mountain to see the ruins of the
famous settlement called Boydtown, estab-
lished on the shores of Twofold Bay by
Benjamin Boyd.” “Great pity, boss,” re-
marked Jacky half an hour later, “that he
put the ruins so far away from the railway
station.”
“Hamer”: A Frenchman with an idea of
settling in Australia has put forward a pro-
posal which sounds rather like the famous
prospectus of the cat-and-rat farm. He pro-
poses to breed foxes for their fur and feed
them on rabbits.* Apparently the notion is
that the fox farm will be a perambulating
concern which will eat an area out of rab-
bits and pass on to a new one. So if a
foreign-looking gentleman driving a herd of
foxes along the highways is seen, it will be
known that the enterprising Gaul has started
operations, and has succeeded in converting
Reynard into a gregarious animal.
* * * *
“The Rumpus” : Here’s a theory of waves
I got from a Kanaka. Every third wave is
larger than its fellows, and every ninth
weightier than the other thirds. The* twenty-
seventh sea has more punch than any pre-
ceding that number, and the eighty-first will
over-rise the others, and so on, until a real
boomer is launched. The Kanaka told me
that his father, who had been a great prophet
chief, had mastered the art of calculation
and predicted the actual date of a devastat-
ing tidal wave to such a nicety that an
armada from a neighboring island* cleverly
goaded into chase at the right moment, was
swamped and smashed to smithereens.
* * * *
“Homfrey Beale”: The Digger has been
credited with a full-sized thirst, hut in T 8
I met an Imperial It.S.M. whose capacity
beat anything I ever saw in khaki. He blew
into the upstairs parlor of a Weymouth
(Eng.) pub one night, and from the Hebe
demanded “A pint, please.” “Only half-
pints up here —pints down in the bar,” said
the girl haughtily. “Half-pint, please.” The
girl brought it, but before she could change
a two-bob piece it was emptied and replaced
on the tray with the remark, “Half-pint,
please.” This was repeated 12 times, a coin
necessitating change being tendered each
time. The girl, despite an heroic struggle
(and she was really smart), was unable to
get away, and other customers were waiting.
The thirteenth order was her Waterloo.
“Half-pint, please,” said the R.S.M. “Would
you like a pint?” asked the damsel sweetly.
“Thank you!” After that he called only
once every 15 minutes for the next two hours.
Then he ordered three pints at once, polished
them off in quick succession, said, “Well
good evening, gentlemen,” and departed as
straight and steady as if he were on parade.
* >!» *
“Harold Hardupp”: A man who used to
live in Armidale (N.S.AV.) was grey-headed
and drawn-faced in the early thirties as the
result of an appalling adventure. His hut
was a little way out of Hillgrove where, one
dark and stormy night, he had been one of a
festive party. His way home lay along a
road which at places skirted the sheer depth
of the Baker’s Creek canyon. He took no
heed of the dangers until his feet slipped on
some miry ground and he shot over the
edge.. He grabbed desperately at a bush
against which he brushed in falling, and got
a grip. Hanging there, with the frenzied
clutch of a man who knew that the alter-
native was a swift and horrible death, he
called for help, knowing all the time that
none could be expected until the morning.
He tried gingerly to raise himself upwards,
using the shrub as a rope, but a cracking
of roots and a shower of clods dislodged
by the strain made him panic. His arms
grew numb and desperately weary, and un-
consciousness threatened to swoop upon him
time after time. Each time, terrified, he
forced himself back to wakefulness, fearful
that his grip would loosen if he let his senses
sleep. Finally, he fainted. When he came
to his senses he found himself lying on a
broad and perfectly safe ledge wdiich during
the time of his agony must have been a mere
three or four inches beneath his dangling
feet.
TROUBLE AHEAD.
CONSTABLE : “Here, here, sir, why don’t you get home? Haven’t lost your latch-key,
have you?”
SUFFERER : “No, consh’ble, not my latch-key—my (hie) nerve.”
“Pippin”: Harold Clapp’s favorite slogan,
“An apple a day keeps the doctor away,”
which adorned the front of Melbourne’s
Flinders-street station for a long time, got a
testimonial from the animal world the other
day. A female giraffe developed serious
symptoms, and after three vets, had examined
her it was decided she was suffering from
malnutrition, causing parasites to multiply
in the intestines. A daily dose of Jonathans
effected an immediate improvement.
x * * *
" “Larrapinta” : About 10 years ago I was
fishing at American River, Kangaroo Island
(S.A.), when an octopus
with its tentacles wrap-
ped around a shag sud-
denly popped up along-
side the cutter. The bird
tried frantically to get
free, but the 18in. ten-
tacles held tight, some-
times • keeping the bird’s
head under water for
fully a minute. At last
the shag freed its neck
and began to peck sav-
agely at the tough, leath-
ery body. This proved
too much for the octopus,
which let go and sank out
of sight. The shag, too
exhausted even to raise
its head, drifted past the
cutter within arm’s
length, but we spared the
stinking glutton. He de-
served to live after put-
ting up such a gallant
fight.
“Max” : The debaters on whitebait are
talking at cross purposes. “Whitebait” is a
term loosely applied to young fish of many
sorts —in the Thames Estuary, England, to
the fry of herrings and sprats, mixed with a
few small flounders, shrimps, etc.; in Ger-
many to the young of various sorts of Cyp-
rinoids, and in Italy and Japan to the young
of nearly every fish capable of being caught
in large numbers. In Maoriland whitebait are
the Oalaziidac , a family of fishes limited to
the Southern Hemisphere, and found in M.L.,
the south-eastern point of Australia, Pata-
gonia and Terra del Fuego.
Si! * * *
“Hilltop”: I can fully endorse all that
has been said of the wind-resisting qualities
of the Norfolk Island pine. Growing in a very
exposed position in front of
my home in Brisbane are
three magnificent specimens,
one fully 70ft. high. In 1927
we experienced a terrific
cyclone which, although fol-
lowing a very narrow path,
did a tremendous amount of
damage, uprooting trees, un-
roofing houses and demolish-
ing parts of school buildings.
When the blow began my
chief thought was for those
tall pines so near my house,
and I expected every minute
to hear them crash down on
the roof. When the storm
passed, scenes of devastation
were everywhere, but those
three heroes still stood as straight and
graceful as ever, their only loss being a few
small boughs.
* * * *
“Chicot”: In the Botanical Gardens in
Brisbane a monkey named Rupert shares a
cage with a pygmy marmoset scarcely bigger
than a caterpillar. The money takes quite
a paternal interest in his little companion,
and their existence is an idyllic one. How-
ever, a keeper recently introduced a large
female monkey named Bertha into Rupert’s
bachelor and care-free life. Bertha imme-
diately made a ferocious attack on the mar-
moset, and would have killed it had not Rupert
sprung to the defence. Rupert was much
battered, and blood was running copiously
down his face when the keepers at last came
on the scene. He is now, however, non© the
worse for his experience, and it is a touching-
sight to see the marmoset regarding its
champion with grateful and admiring eyes.
Their friendship seems to have become
stronger than ever.
* :!: * X
“Salambo”: Maori rules of war were
complex. In the case of single combat,
the challenged warrior had the choice of
weapons, and in general warfare it was the
correct thing to give the other side notice of
an intended attack; for instance, Ivaihao
shouted to his enemies, “When the
moon is full expect me.” Duting a blockade
it was no uncommon thing for members of
the attacking force to visit the besieged on
friendly terms. Food and water in small
quantities were often sent in. When the
Makatote pa was besieged the people inside
were in such straits that they were handing
over their children to the enemy so as to
have more food to spare for the fighters.
Peliei Turoa let down his son Apanui by a
rope, crying out, “Have a name for mercy
and spare my son.” Twelve sticks of dried
kumara were instantly sent up, the besiegers
calling out, “Pull up the rope; here is new
courage for you.” That was all according
to the code, and Maori history teems with
such instances of chivalry. Unfortunately
it also abounds in deeds of the blackest
deceit and treachery.
(Continued on page 25.)
THE SYBARITE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The hippo at Taronga Park
Must find his life an endless lark.
Though you and I may pant and snort,
No heat perturbs that good old sport.
A pachyderm devoid of woe,
He wallows in the 1120.
The jumbo finds his life no catch,
For lie must leave his shady patch
To carry tons of kids—l’d hate
To have to tot© his wriggling freight.
A\ r hile he must tread the toilsome path,
The hippo has his hippo bath.
The lion, overrated beast,
I do not envy in the least.
He has to earn each day at four
His tucker with a stagey roar,
Raw meat (such steak as Duckworth loves
To wear, they say ; within his gloves)
Ungrilled, by sizzling chips ungraced:
No fragrant bulb to whet his taste.
At his perfunctory blare I smile.
The hippo has him licked a mile.
For, since the Primal Dawn began
A virtual vegetarian,
lie bans the raw, red joints, I wis,
Though toothsome fish are not amiss.
Again, while zebra, gnu or yak
(Bos grunniens), with twitching back
Sent mad by flies, will stamp and squirm,
Our hedonistic pachyderm
Absorbs his bale of hay or greens
Secure within a hide that screens
His bulk from insectile. attack.
The skeet or fly that bit his back
AVould dislocate its neck or beak.
So, as I gaze, I say, “Old freak!
If transmigration’s booked for us
I’ll be a hippopotamus.”
VICTORIA.
WAWHERESH.


THE CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in the Empire.
The following is the text of the City Mutual Life Assurance Society s
50th Annual Report, which was reviewed in a recent “Bulletin.
NEW BUSINESS.
The new business for the year slightly exceeded Three Millions Pounds, a record.
But the new premiums received are actually less than for the previous year. This
is solely due to the fact that a large number of younger Australians are effecting Whole
Life Policies with the City Mutual.
The Whole Life Policy is the cream of the life assurance business. The premiums
are lower but the duration is greater.
RENEWALS.
Renewal, premiums show an increase over the previous year of £58,000.
A little consideration will show exactly what this means, and will indicate the
class of business which the City Mutual writes.
The renewal premiums for the previous year amounted to £488,000. The new
premiums for 1927 amounted to £90,000. The renewal premiums for 1928 exceed
£546,000.
During the year under review no less than over a quarter of a million sterling
was disbursed in death and endowment claims, annuities, and surrendered policies.
Consequently the premiums on these policies ceased.
RECORD BONUSES.
The Society has been paying for many years past the largest bonuses in the
world of life assurance, and has been carrying over as well a surplus which m itself was
sufficient to almost double these record bonuses.
When it is realised that the Actuary, Mr. G. F. Diamond, A.1.A., in his calculations,
is instructed to assume that the highest amount which the Society can earn on its
invested funds of over Five Millions of money is 3£ per cent., and that, further, his
instructions are to value on what is known as the “nett premium basis of valuation,
which means that no account whatever is taken of the high initial cost of the
new business, the results must be gratifying to the policyholders.
EXPENSE RATE LOW.
The expense rate of the City Mutual is low.
The Directors are not seeking for business at any price. As a matter of fact, for
many years past the new business has been restricted, an action unprecedented in the
history of Australian life assurance, or, in fact, so far as the Directors are aware, Empire
life assurance.
Each year the Society is invited to open agencies in New Zealand, in South
Africa, in Great Britain and in Canada, amongst other places. But the Board confines
its operations to the Commonwealth of Australia. The saving of overhead charges
incidental to promiscuous extensions all over the world is a factor in the wonderful
returns which the Society is able to pay its members. And will continue to pay its
members for all time.
RESERVE FOR EQUALISATION OF BONUSES.
It will be noticed that among other appropriations £lOO,OOO has been set aside
out of this year’s funds to reserve for equalisation of bonuses. This is mainly due
to the fact that both State and Federal Authorities have decided to impose increased
taxation on life assurance institutions.
The City Mutual makes no complaint about that, in view of the regrettable fact
that both State and Federal requirements necessitate a higher income.
But both State and Federal Governments have been indulging for years past in
needless extravagance. They are not only living far beyond their means, but they
are also taking on commitments of a very dubious nature and carrying out many
ill-advised schemes.
Unfortunately, experience teaches that an imposition of these taxes is like the
fixing of the basic wage. There is no hope of a reduction. There is ever the pros-
pect of a yearly increase. The City Mutual is merely “furling sail.”
The contingency fund has also been increased by £30.000. It now stands at
£lOO,OOO.
The Directors have also added an extra reserve of £20,000 to provide for a
superannuation scheme for employees, both field and office staff. This latter appro-
priation is of course subject to the approval of the policyholders at a special
meeting.
GENERALLY.
Comparison of the figures for the year 1928 with the previous year calls for no
special comment. Claims have naturally increased, but are still much less than
the expectation.
Deposits with Banks and cash in hand show a considerable increase, mainly
due to the fact that the average class of investment now offering is of a somewhat
dubious nature, and that the policy of the Directors has always been to make the
safety of the funds of the policyholders their first and last concern.
The constituency of the Society as at the 31st December, 1928, was 54,661
members, with policies amounting to £17,595,000.
To this amount will have been added bonuses of no less than £2,750,000, a
remarkable accretion to the face value of the policies.
The Society’s annual income is now well over a million pounds.
A RETROSPECT.
A period of fifty years has now elapsed since the City Mutual—the last mutual
life office in Australia —was established. It will probably be twice fifty years before
another one is brought into existence.
It is not saying too much to chronicle the fact that the five Mutual Life Offices
in the Commonwealth have, on the whole, always adhered closely to the best traditions
of the best British Institutions.
There have been occasional undignified local bickerings and unworthy jealousies.
But that aspect need not be stressed. It were better forgotten.
In addition to paying many hundreds of millions of pounds to widows and orphans,
they have in the strenuous times of war, and in the present even more strenuous times
of peace, endeavored to the utmost of their power to assist in the advancement of
Australia.
20th February, 1929.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Chairman.
m
Quicker Cooking for Modern Housewives
FLORENCE
WICK L E S S
OIL STOVES
You have always wanted a stove like the
Florence; one that gives intensest heat
yet is safe and economical. Now you can
have it.
Actually the flame is hotter than gas, just
an easy to control. Fuel is kerosene, per-
fectly safe to handle and use, and about
the cheapest fuel known.
Without odor, without smoke and with
perfect safety, you get intense heat centred
right on the bottom of the cooking vessel.
This is the famous focussed heat of the
Florence, made possible hr the absence of
wick. Not only amazingly efficient, but
most economical.
One giant burner heats the oven, which
has “the baker’s arch” and patented heat-
spreader. Food does not burn on the
bottom, but is baked evenly all over. Many
women say they can bake better with a
Florence than when they use coal or gas.
Let us send you free descriptive booklets
if you cannot call to see the Florence Oil
Stove.
Let us give you details also of the
COMFORT BENZINE IRON—
Indispensable in every country home.
Free leaflets on request.
We Stock all Electrical Accessories.
BRANDTS L—•
“Everything for Light and Heat.”
236 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Queensland Agents: J. T. Greenlees <£■ Co., Ann Street, Brisbane;
Michelmore & Co., Mad:ay; Armstrong, Ledlic & Stillman, Cairns;
Samuel Allen & Sons, Ltd., Townsville.
Agencies open in other States.
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
f§§32§
MEiigen
IN CO-OPERATION WITH
WAGONS-UTS CO.
The only Firm with permanent
offices all over the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
ESCORTED TOURS TO EUROPE.
ALL CLASSES. —Leaving March and April.
We are the pioneers of Escorted Travel, and,
having our own offices throughout Europe,
are the only Tourist Firm properly equipped
to handle such business.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street,
ADELAIDE:
49 Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).


ft
You’ve never worn a Truss like
Denyers’. All feeling of irri-
tation and restriction is re-
moved by this light, sanitary
and neatly fitting appliance.
The patent water pad affords
the ideal Rupture treatment.
Write now for free
pamphlet.
Single, 30/-; Double,
DENYER BROS.,
Dept. 1, 267 George St., SYDNEY
Mans
olce
is Scott’s, because it is the most centrally situated
hotel in Melbourne (near Railway Stations, Wharves,
Warehouses and Offices), because the service is unim-
peachable, and the hotel is equipped with every
convenience—direct and inter-communicating telephones,
and hot and cold water, electric fans and fires in
every bedroom. „
Inclusive Tariff by Day or Bed and Breakfast Rate
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD
Telegrams: “Scottsotel, Melbourne’
’Phone: Central 9011 (10 lines).
0
□
5.36
Collins St. Melbourne
ertrety
'mm.
i
J
Limited
The Company will transfer its
business to the new Private Hotel
in Greenknowe Avenue, Potts
Point, in March, 1929, where it
will feature Central Heating,
Private Baths and Telephones to
each room.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views.
Inclusive Tariff from £5/5/-
per week, or £l/1/- per day.
Bed and Breakfast from
£4/4/- per week, or 16/-
per day.
For appointment to view ’phone
F 2161 (4 lines). Telegraphic
Address: Fifmac, Sydney.
“Red Jacket”: No need to go to the
South Atlantic for sea-serpents. The crew
of a coaster reported the presence of a
giant marine wriggler off Port Stephens
(N.S.W.) just on four years ago. Accord-
ing to the ship’s log it was about GOft.
long, and was snoozing on the surface of
the water. A Victorian farmer made a
study of a 30-foot sea-snake on the
Sorrento beach (Vic.) in 1925. Golden in
color, its body was as thick as a young
tree-trunk. It slithered back to Neptune.
According to Australian marine naturalists,
the serpents resident in Australian waters
—not water-snakes —are most likely ribbon
fish —long, sinuous, flat creatures with fins
extending from head to tail down their
MERELY A MATTER OF THRIFT.
“Never mind kiddin’ to me, Mary—tell me just how you and
Jacky got that bottle of rum.”
“No kiddin’, boss—Jacky and me bin savin’ up rum all our life.”
backs. As a hood forms on the head of
these silvery fish, it is easy to understand
their being taken for sea-serpents. They
are to be found in the Tasman Sea, and
there are dozens of small ones in jars in the
Christchurch (M.L.) Museum.
* * *
“Ledraw” : The most intelligent cat I ever
had was a big Manx tom called Stumpy. He
used to follow me like a dog and do every-
thing but talk. At mealtimes he would sit
and wait until I handed him his issue on an
old plate. I never knew him to thieve or
jump on the table. One day a couple of
the lads came to dinner. I told them they
would have to take pot-luck as I was short
of meat. When dinner started Stumpy was
absent. A few minutes later he came in
with two half-grown rabbits, jumped on the
table and put one on each of the visitors’
plates.
* * * *
“Mustard”: The death of Crooked Mick
has been greatly exaggerated. I met him
and Big Bill going to the
Towers the other day. They
had a scheme for cutting up
old shafts into post holes,
and expected to make a pot
of money. They were just in
from Coccadotta Downs, the
biggest shed in the world.
There the boss rides the
shearing board in a Rolls-
Royce. The cook boils the
duff in 10,000-gallon tanks
and employs two men to mix
the mustard with long-
handled shovels. He rips
the brownie down with cir-
cular saws. Big Bill, Mick’s
mate, is the man who
whistled to his dog and blew
th» pub down.
* * *
“Pfella” : Some two dozen
gins and their bucks attended
a nigger christening at a
mission station in the nor’-
west of Groperland, and in
between giggles and pipe-
smoking and tobacco-chew-
ing they were deeply inter-
ested in the ceremony. When
the piccaninny was well and
truly named one black girl
whose husband was away
shepherding demanded to be
christened. To humor her
she was sprayed with heady
ginger-beer and renamed
“Saint Agnes” amid much
applause. Most proud of the
new title and prouder still
of the smell of ginger-beer
dregs on her person, she
later stood before her lord
and master. He sniffed sus-
piciously at the flies cluster-
ing around the evidence of
the late rite. “Mine bin
called ’nother pfella name
now,” she announced; “mine
bin eliistened Chaint Brek-
fus.” “By cripes, you
right,” agreed the abo.;
“even plies know it.”
NATURALLY.
GUSTAVE : “Now I’m broke, I suppose you’ll lose interest
in me.”
FLEURETTE: “Why, certainly. The smaller the principal
the smaller the interest.”
“Wang”: I can support what “R.X.8.”
(B. 13/2/’29) says about the hermit-crab
and its methods of selecting a home. The
life-saving club to which I belong has had
to attend to several casualties caused
by the little bcastie’s playfulness. Several
children have been
badly bruised by
the flying peri-
winkle shells, and
two prominent
members recently
lost the use of an
eye each through
the same cause.
“R.X.8.” didn’t
mention that these
crabs have also a
great liking for
music. Our club
has a fine gramo-
phone. and we have
been in the habit
of holding weekly
dances in the club-
house ; but these
have been stopped
because of the my-
riads of crabs the
music brought
ashore. They
would gambol just
a few yards off,
hurling winkles in
all directions.
Many would lob on
the iron roof of the
club-house, creat-
ing an awful din,
and several panes
of glass have also
been broken by the
flying shells. Inci-
dentally, I wish to
apologise for the state of this handwriting.
My right forefinger is bandaged, having
been cut to the bone by a periwinkle hurled
at me by a fierce-eyed crab.
* * * *
“Onehunga”: The pedestrian’s path is
set with many snares in these days, but it
has remained for the seagulls of Devon-
port (M.L.) to add a new spice to his
existence. There is a concrete promenade
along the water-front, and the big. black-
back gulls have discovered its possibilities.
They pick up pipis and similar shellfish
from the mudflats below, and then, flying
high above the concrete, drop their prey on
it. The result is most satisfactory to the
gull in most cases, but those humans on
whose heads shellfish have splintered after
a 100 ft. drop are not so keen. An added
unpleasantness is the necessity for walking
over shattered and slimy fragments of shell
which strew the footpath. There is some talk
of bringing shotguns into the argument.
“Up North”: Cranky Solomon was a South
Sea dumb man, the butt of the Thursday
Island colored folk. At one paying-off of
the pearling fleet a crowd of “boys” got
him drunk, and then indulged in horse-
play, pushing Cranky over the street gut-
ters. It was great sport—to the tormentors.
Cranky’s eyes rolled like bloodshot signal-
lamps in his dumb fury. Finally, he was
knocked into a six-foot drain to a chorus
of delighted howls. He sprang to the bank
chewing a mouthful of grass as he clawed
his |irms skywards, and speech came to him
in a torrent of maniacal curses. Three of
the boys ran in superstitious terror and
the others trembled and turned a dirty grey.
Cranky’s overcharged emotions and the last
sudden shock must have snapped something
that brought back the use of his tongue.
* * * *
“Pick”: “Yam” (B. 6/3/’29) had his leg-
pulled by the Yarrabah mission station abo.
who attributed a crippled knee
to a shot from Ned Kelly. The
Q'land trackers employed to
hunt the Kelly gang never came
within coo-ee of the outlaws
and after a few months of
futile service were returned
home. They were expert track-
ers, but used their skill in evad-
ing the bushrangers. “Yam”
slips, too, in dating the Jeril-
derie bank robbery; the raid on
that township took place in
1881, and the Kellys had then
been out about three years.
“Pila”: The fossilised prehistoric animal
discovered in the bed of the Woorabool River,
Batesford (Vic.), has turned out to be a
whale skeleton, which is nothing uncommon.
Vic. naturalists at first thought that the
remains of a diprotodon, a water wombat
of giant size, had been stumbled upon. Years
ago bones of one of these fellows werp un-
earthed in Footscray, but the skeleton wasn’t
complete.
* * * 9
“Bad Australian”: The opal-gougers were
not the first white men to inhabit cave-
dwellings in Australia. Cornishmen who
worked in the Burra Burra (S.A.) copper-
mine used to' live with their families in sub-
terranean tenements scooped out of the steep
sides of the creeks. They had fireplaces and
sported good furniture, pictures on the walls
and malachite and china dogs on the mantel-
pieces. The arrival of a stray drunk or
unwary goat through the hole that served
for a chimney sometimes scattered a family
prayer-meeting or flattened out a dish of
chickweed pasties, but apart from such un-
avoidable accidents Willum ’Enery and
“Mawther” and the young ’uns did them-
selves very well.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Not long ago I was putting in
a few days with a friend who has a week-
end cottage north of Hornsby (N.S.W.), and
I became a party to a honey hunt. A wild-
bees’ nest was on the top of a tall gum, and
my friend chopped down the tree to get at
the sweet stuff. Shortly afterwards we
noticed what looked like a cloud hanging in
the air. High up, just where the hive had
been when the tree was standing, the bees
were hovering, almost as if they were swarm-
ing. Their homing instinct hud led them
unerringly to the exact spot where their lofty
residence had been, and they were evidently
very angry to find it missing.
* Hf * ♦
“Sea Nomad”: A thrilling sport vanished
from the Coral Sea with the passing of the
clipper-schooners that mothered the pearling
fleets. At the laying-up period throughout
the cyclone season a representative vessel
of each fleet would be chosen to carry its
colors in a race down Endeavor Strait,
around Woody Wallace Island and back to
T.I. Intense rivalry existed between the
fleets, which had a personnel of 1500 meu
all told. All Thursday Island, including its
seething mass of colored humanity, lined the
shoi’cs as the racing craft came in sight head-
ing up the strait. The colored blood, always
hot, was apt to become uncontrollable even
before the finish of such a race. At times
knives were drawn by keen partisans, toma-
hawks flashed, and there was battle, murder
and sudden death while the result of the
race was still in doubt.
* * * *
“Eureka” : Speaking of places where rain
has not fallen for years reminds me
that out near Wilcannia (N.S.W.) there
are frogs seven .years old that have
not yet learnt to swim, and if it
rains very hard those poor creatures
will surely be drowned. The people out there
are so dry that they cannot gather enough
moisture in their mouths to lick the stamps
to put on their letters; they just pin them
on the envelopes. On the other hand, there
is a place near Innisfail (N.Q.) where
men, cows, horses, rabbits and lizards
are all web-footed —every living thing
but the snakes, and they have fins. And
talk about mushrooms! They are so big that
cows shelter under them; but they are
proving a great pest to the farmers.
For months men have been employed ring-
barking them and grubbing them out. Once
there was no rain there for seven full days,
and everyone went to church and prayed for
the breaking of the drought. Of course,
droughts like that are serious affairs up at
Innisfail, and it’s a good thing they only
come once every few years.
* * * *
“De P.”: In a severe drought I have seen
a large waterhole in N. Queensland gradually
dry up until the bottom consisted of a small
pool of liquid mud, which was simply a
squirming mass of large eels. Eventually
this mud became as hard as brick, and in
that state it remained for months, until rain
TABLES OF STONE.
MASTER : “Yes. Ten is quite correct. And
suppose you were to break one of the
commandments, what then ?”
JINKS (fresh from, mathematics): “Why,
th-th-then there would be rune, sir!”
again filled the hole. Though not connected
with any other lagoon or watercourse, this
after being refilled, contains eeis jew-
hsn, peren, stupies ana otnei sorts oi nsn.
As the water recedes the fish bury themselves
as deep as they are able in the soft mud.
The larger fish, being unable to burrow deep
perish, but the smallei ones suivive.
rain again softens the mud and fills
JIRRI JIRRI.
(WILLY WAGTAIL.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Around their burning firesticks
The gins sat cheek by cheek,
With pipes aglow, and chatted
Amid the smoke and reck
Before a village gunyali,
The gunyali by the creek.
They looked around and whispered,
As if in sudden fear
That prying Jirri Jirri
Was lurking somewhere near;
For they were telling stories
That stern men mustn’t hear.
Anon when Jirri Jirri,
With quick and saucy glance,
Alighted near the circle
To gaily chirp and dance,
The gossips ceased their chatter
And looked at him askance.
Then up they sprang and chased him,
Nor would they let him stay
Where he could hear their voices,
Or they his roundelay,
Though none would dare to hurt him,
Lest evil come their way.
For little Jirri Jirri
They called a stickybeak
Who told about the secrets
He heard the women speak,
And trouble racked the gunyali,
The gunyah by the creek.
All other birds were welcome,
And many did they love:
The black swan calling softly
On whistling wings above,
The jolly kookaburra,
The mopoke and the dove.
But cheeky Jirri Jirri,
The pesky stickybeak,
Must do his merry dancing,
His food and pleasure seek,
Far from the lowly gunyah,
The gunyah by the creek.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
By hide and skin man, Brisbane, 30
years’ experience, change of position. Good
knowledge values, counts, yields, also good
judge green weights.—926o.
Housekeeper, first-class cook, would like to
hear from two or three business men, view
to sharing cottage.—9l77.
By young man, experienced, good refs.,
opportunity to engage in share wheat-farm-
ing Vic. Will find part price of seed, manures
and bags, or part plant if necessary.—9lBl.
By young man, Brisbane, good education,
has written short stories, journalistic posi-
tion. —9157.
By lonely, elderly English lady, Tas., cor-
respondents.—924s.
Young Englishman, Sydney, wishes to
meet intelligent person, either sex, any
nationality, interested in psychology, social-
ism, modern art, theatre-craft, open-air life.
—9201.
By single man, position in agricultural
machinery depot; 12 years with one firm.
First-class refs.—92o4.
By lad (IS), able to milk and ride, position
on Q’land sheep station. Willing to learn
anything and go anywhere.—92o6.
Young lady (23) would like to correspond
with Bulletin readers in Pacific Islands.—
9213.
By young woman (Tas.), cultured, domes-
tic, position as companion to lady on station.
Can drive car.—9223.
I»y engineer, middle aged (Q’land), em-
ployment. First-class man in wood or iron
work. Useful in self-contained establish-
ment, station, etc., or working out ideas.
Govt. refs.; 19 years’ exp.—9229.
Limited company manufacturing storage
batteries in Sydney, up-to-date plant, patent
process, present capital £14,000, requires
additional capital in any amounts up to
£5OOO. Excellent prospects; good dividends.
—9217.
By educated, reliable woman, 'Sydney,
several years’ experience reception-room,’
four years in a library, good organiser, suit-
able position.—9226.
To buy, second-hand postage-stamp album,
good usable condition, 5s. —9205.
To buy book, “Opal Fire,” by Mrs. Camp-
bell Praed.—9246.
To buy, building block, good area and soil,
anywhere N.S.W. seaside or lakeside pre-
ferred. Might consider cottage. Full parti-
culars. Must be cheap.—92ll.
Words of poem containing the line “We
were travelling down the Bogan, where the
scrubs are dark and dense.” (To M. "J.
Mason, c/o W. Wells, Jumble Springs,
Alberts, N.S.W.)
Information Sought.
(1) Is a thick brown iridescent scum on
a salt-water spring an indication of oil in
the vicinity? There is plenty of light-colored
shale and red clay nearabouts. (2) Arc
there any known surface indications of oil?
—8990.
(1) Iridescent scum is not necessarily an
indication of oil. The description given
indicates a scum formed by iron hydroxide,
and if so it will break up into separate angu-
lar pieces when disturbed with a stick. If
you can’t break up the scum it may be oil,
and collection of a sample for testing would
then be warranted. (2) Yes; (a) oil seep-
ages in rocks and springs, etc.; (b) impreg-
nations in rocks of natural hydrocarbons,
such as bitumen, ozokerite, etc.; (c) mud
springs and brine waters may indicate possi-
bilities.
In answering Bulletin correspondents
does merit guarantee a reply or utter stu-
pidity? What system is followed? —9074.
First, that Column has to be readable like
every other. Without losing sight of this an
effort is made to stop the quite hopeless and
encourage the possible; primarily the Column
is a capillary, not a pillory. In encouraging
the possibles we also point out their faults.
As a rule, no reference is made to pars (there
isn’t room) or to matter which may possibly
be offered to other papers (a hostile reply
might prejudice a sale). That is the main
reason why mediocrity often does go un-
noticed.
(1) Do newspapers give out books to free-
lances to review? (2) Does the free-lance
keep the book? (3) Hoiv does a free-lance
ego about getting books to review? (4) Are
papers similar to The Bulletin published
in Africa, Canada and other British
Dominions? —9214.
(1) Very rarely, and then only when the
free-lance is a recognised authority. (2)
There is no set rule. Some offices allow the
reviewer to retain the book, others demand
that it be returned. (3) By making applica-
tion to the editor, but it is unlikely that the
request would be even considered unless the
free-lance was very well known to the paper.
(4) Not so far as we know.
Can you give me a few aboriginal names
beginning with W suitable for the name of
a house? —9147.
Wahroonga (“our home”), Warrawee
(“come here”), Weabra (“camp”), Wee-
roona (“resting place”), Wybara or Walai
(“camp”), Wool way (“a sheltered place”),
Woonah (“a resting place”), Willawa (“stop
here”).
Where can I obtain asphalt varnish or
black asphaltum paint? I require it for
painting a design on brass and etching the
uncovered part. —9l97. <
Paint with bitumen powder (any chemist)
mixed with turps to consistency desired.
Shellac the back of the plate and immerse
in perchloride of iron to etch away exposed
parts.
I have lost some of my life-insurance
bonus certificates. Must 1 replace them aiul
how ? —9068.
Not necessarily. The certificate is proof;
but if it is a respectable office you’re in,
you or your executors won’t be called on to
supply proof. Quite likely, for your peace
of mind, the office would write, in answer
to a request, and tell you just how your
policy stands.
Is there any food value in powdered skim-
milk? If sq, what is its ratio of food value
to ordinary cow’s milk? —S99s.
Skimmed cow’s milk has definite nutri-
tional value, since it possesses both protein
(casein) and carbohydrate (lactose). It will
furnish about 11 calories (heat units) per
ounce, compared with 20 calories per ounce
of normal milk. Skimmed milk alone is not
a balanced ration, but it is a valuable food-
stuff for supplementing other food. Any pro-
cess of drying is liable to injure the vita-
mines present in the fresh article.
(1) What are the prospects of employ-
ment in Australia for a lithographer with
some years’ English experience? (2) What
loagcs? —9l3l.
(1) Extremely limited, except for an
expert offset operator. (2) The award rate
is £5 12s. per week, but an experienced
tradesman can earn anything up to £7.
(1) I am driving a one-ton motor-truck
for a N. 8. Wales country contractor.
What is the award wage? (2) Where can I
get a copy of the award? —9097.
(1) £5 3s. per week where the carrying
capacity of the waggon does not exceed one
ton. (2) Government Printer, Phillip-street,
Sydney. Ask for Carters’, etc. (Country),
Awards, Nos. 176 and 579.
Can persons ivho secure a pilot’s license
through an aviation club obtain commissions
in the Air Force Reserve without further
training? Is there such a reserve in Aus-
tralia f—9059.
The Air Force Reserve has not yet been
properly formed. At the present time the
only officers on the Reserve are officers who
have served in the. R.A.A.F. and resigned
their commissions. A person who obtains a
pilot’s license through an aero club is not
sufficiently qualified to be given a commission
on the Reserve because the duties of an
Air Force officer do not end with the ability
to fly. In the future arrangements may be
made for the training of persons who have
learnt to fly in aero clubs, but no such
arrangements exist at present.
llow can I clean out the pipe that leads
from my kitchen sink, which is frequently
blocked with soap, grease, etc.? —9046.
If the pipe has a U loop underneath the
sink, unscrew the cap at the bottom of the
U and poke a wire up each side of the U.
If it hasn’t a U, take out the grid and rake
down with a, piece of flexible hooked wire.
If that doesn’t remove the obstruction, flush
repeatedly with boiling water containing
plenty of caustic soda.
I bought a house, price £935, and paid
£l5O deposit, balance at £2 per week, includ-
ing interest at 8 p.c. How much is owing
after three years? —B927.
If interest is computed at quarterly rests,
£645 ; if at yearly rests, £651 ss. (approx.).
(1) Name and address of organisations
that issue regular bulletins giving extracts
from different periodicals relative to scien-
tific progress, etc. f—-8954.
Science Service, 21st and B streets, Wash-
ington, D.C., U.S.A., publishes a weekly
Science News-Letter that would probably
suit. Science Progress, 50a Albemarle-
street, London, W.l, is a quarterly publica-
tion which supplies a resume of scientific
achievement throughout the world, and re-
views and gives abstracts from any recent
books of importance. There arc also many
good indices and abstracting publications on
special subjects, such as Chemical
Abstracts, Industrial Arts Index, En-
gineering Index, etc. All those can be seen
in the library of the Council for Scientific
and Industrial Research, 314 Albert-street,
E. Melbourne.
Can any information be got about the
Kwaipan Bay Plantation C0.? —8463.
It is in New Britain and an excessively
wet area: it seems likely that it is too wet.
Shares issued, 16,649 of £1 now paid to
14s. 6d.; 1851 fully paid. Calls are made
pretty regularly and the full £1 is likely to
be called. It has never paid a dividend, and
thus far seems not to have begun to show
a profit.
How long does it take for a pinus insignis
to grow to the stage when it is fit for news-
print or milling? —9l4l.
Under average conditions in N. S. Wales
not less than 15 years' would be . necessary
to obtain the best return 'for wood pulp,
and 25 years and over for small mill logs.
7 bought some 10s. shares in a coall
but Is. has now been called. Can they come
on me for any more after I’ve paid up the
final Is. ?— 8432.
Not if the full nominal value of the shares
was 108. But there are lots of ways in
which they can give you the alternative
either of paying more or of losing what you
have paid. Thus preference shares —one or
more lots—may be issued ; or debentures ; or
capital may be written off as lost or un-
represented by assets, and new shares may
be offered for sale.
What public holidays are station-hands in
N.S.W. entitled to u]ider Federal and State
awards? —9l73.
Under the Federal award Christmas
Day, Boxing Day, New Year’s Day,
Anniversary Day, Good Friday, Easter
Monday, Eight Hours’ Day, King’s Birth-
day, and any day fixed for Federal or State
elections, or such other week-day as the
employer and employee may mutually
arrange beforehand in lieu of any of the
days mentioned. If called on to work on any
day which he is entitled to enjoy as a holiday
the employee is entitled to payment for the
whole day at the rate of time and a half.
The N.S.W. Pastoral Employees (State)
Award does not differ from the Federal
award in this respect.
Who was Maltlms and ichat was the doc-
trine he expounded? —B2ls.
Thomas Robert Maltlms was an English
clergyman whose “Essay on the Principle
of Population” attracted great attention
near the end of the 18th century. He held
that population tends to multiply faster than
the means of subsistence, and that when this
occurs the lower or weaker classes must
suffer from lack of food. Therefore, unless
the increase of population is checked by
prudential restraint, poverty is inevitable;
and the multiplying of the population will
be checked by poverty, vice, or some other
cause of suffering.
(1) Is there an award in force in N.S.W.
covering the conditions of employment of a
traveller employed by a country retail
draper? (2) Is such a traveller, who is paid
a retainer and commission, a worker wider
the N.S.W. Workers’ Compensation Act? —
9026.
(1) No. (2) In extension of the ordi-
nary definition of “worker” contained in
Section (i N.S.W. Workers’ Compensation
Act it is provided by Subsection 6 that
“A salesman, canvasser, collector or person
paid wholly or partly by commission shall,
for the purposes of this Act, be deemed to
be a wprker in the employment of the person
by whom such commission is payable, unless
such commission is received by the salesman,
canvasser, collector or person for or in con-
nection with work incidental to a trade or
business regularly carried on by him or by a
firm whereof he is a member.”
(l)What pay do N.S.W. police receive?
(2) llow long is the training course, and
what is its nature? (3) What is the nature
of the educational and medical examinations?
(4) Would a touch of itching piles go
against an applicant otherwise suitable?
(5) Can one join at any time, without as ig
waiting ? —5965.
(1) During the first year of service,
£6 6s. 7d. per week. (2) Candidates must
undergo at least three months’ training at the
Police Depot, and are classed as trainees.
They receive physical and educational in-
struction to fit them for their subsequent
duties, and also are given instruction in
first aid and life saving. Whilst in training
recruits receive pay at the rate of 16s. 7d.
per day. (3) The educational test given to
candidates consists of writing from dictation
and working out a few questions in elemen-
tary arithmetic. The medical examination
is necessarily strict. (4) This is a ques-
tion that must necessarily be left entirely
to the judgment of the police doctor. (5)
When the applicant has satisfied the tests
he is appointed as early as possible.
Some years ago a man in England made
a bet with a bookmaker. The horse ran no-
where, and later the man sued the bookmaker
for a return of his bet. The Court upheld
his claim and the money was refw <ded. Is
Australian law similar to English law in this
respect? —9l7B.
The position in law is that a person wager-
ing in the circumstances described can
recover his stake provided he can prove he
has deposited it with the bookmaker. He can
do no more if the horse wins. In the latter
case the bookmaker could plead the Gaming
Act to avoid his liability beyond the amount
of the stake deposited with him. The English
precedent should hold good in Australia,
though there is always an element of un-
certainty in such cases.
Can you tell me how to take writing ink
out of paper? —B6l2.
Use cold aqueous acetic acid or solution
of calcium hypochlorite bleaching powder
(eau de Javelle). Apply first much diluted
with water, using a stronger solution if
necessary.
What is the tannic acid method of remov-
ing tattoo marks? —8659.
A solution of 50 per cent, tannic acid is
tattooed into the design. After sloughing
occurs, silver nitrate is rubbed into the
treated area. This forms a heavy black
deposit of tannate in the skin and with this
the tattooing material can be removed. The
tattooed area gradually becomes hard and
dry and eventually lifts off. The operation
takes some weeks and it is impossible to
prevent scarring.
Can you give me a brief list of books deal-
ing with fur-farming and rabbit-raising? —
9190.
“Practical Rabbit-Keeping,” by E. I.
Farrington (Robt. M. Mcßride) ; “Rabbit-
Keeping on Money-making Lines,” by W.
Powell Owen (George Newnes) ; “Rabbits
for Fur and Flesh,” by O. .T. Davies
(Country Life, Lond.). The College of
Agriculture, Uni. of California, has also pub-
lished a series of pamphlets on the subject.
(1) Can you name some books dealing
with irrigation engineering and construction
of irrigation works published outside Aus-
tralia? (2) Books, other than Govt, publica-
tions. dealing with irrigation in Australia?
—8439.
(1) “The Principles of Irrigation Prac-
tice,” by John A. Widstoe (Macmillan) ;
“Irrigation Practice and Engineering” (three
vols.), by B. A. Etcheverry (McGraw-Hill) ;
“The Principles of Irrigation Engineering,”
by F. E. Ivonthack; “The Thirsty Earth,”
by E. H. Carrier (Christopher). (2)
“American and Australian Irrigation,” by
G. Gordon ; “Fruitgrowing Under Irriga-
tion,” by F. R. Arndt; “Irrigation, or the
New Australia,” by F. Myers.
(1) Was Oliver Cromwell ever defeated by
the Royalists; if so, where and when? (2)
Was he killed in battle? —9247.
(1) He met with a few unimportant re-
pulses and on a couple of occasions made
strategic retreats, but he almost always had
the upper hand. Every important .battle
between the “Ironsides” and the Royalists
resulted in a victory for his forces. (2)
No. He died in his bed after a fortnight’s
illness.
Recipe for yeast for use in hot climate? —
9198.
Boil two ounces of the best hops in four
quarts of water for half-hour; strain it and
let the liquor cool down to new-milk warmth ;
then put in a small handful of salt and half-
pound brown sugar; beat up one pound best
flour with some of the liquor and mix all
well together. The third day add three
pounds potatoes, boiled and mashed, and let
it stand until the next day. Then strain and
it is ready for use. Stir frequently while
making and keen near a fire. Before using
stir well; it wi/l keep two or three months
in a cool place. This j'east is very strong:
half the usual quantity necessary for baking
is sufficient. It may be kept in a temperature
as high as 10-kleg. Fahr.
Does Anybody Know ?
Recipe for making what is known as
“tyre dough” for plugging stone cuts in
tyres?—9l66.
A satisfactory method of attaching by an
adhesive a rubber band to the painted metal-
work of a motor-car? —9167.
now to white metal the boxes of wheels?
—9184.
Brief Answers.
A.F.: Apply to the Deputy Superintendent,
Shipping Office, Dawes Point, Sydney J.R.A.:
Gypsum is crystallised calcium sulphate. The fertiliser
referred to apparently contains 75 p.c. calcium
sulphate, the balance being inert matter. Good
gypsum contains 98 p.c. calcium sulphate. Gypsum
contains no phosphoric acid and could not be used
as a substitute for superphosphate. Superphosphate
is used to a very large extent as a fertiliser in
wheat-growing and pasture top-dressing as a result
of experience. .. .D.M.S.: (1) Its meaning is not
given in any of the dictionaries of Christian names.
(2) Lorna Doone was the heroine of Blaekmore’s
romance of that name. Daughter of a noble Scottish
house, she was stolen in childhood by the outlaw
Doones, and brought up by them as their princess.
She is rescued by John Ridd, a stalwart and
chivalrous farmer, who is eventually knighted by
the king, and marries Lorna J.W.8.: On
he facts stated, her chance appears to be
remote. Consult the Legal Aid Department, Queen’s-
square, Sydney G.S.: Information unobtainable in
Sydney. Write the Paymaster Director-General,
Board of Admiralty, Whitehall, London, S.W.I
H.K.: (1) The only way is by making application
direct to the various shipping cos. (2) Depends
upon the nature of the work you wish to follow;
write to Burns, Philp or W. R. Carpenter and Co.,
Ltd.—both of Sydney J.C.K.: Try White and
Hallingh, Ltd., 30 Cato-street, Durban, S. Africa
M. :Comniunicate with Family Endowment Depart-
ment, Mint Building, Macquarie-street, Sydney
L.N.D.: See “Wild Cat” Monthly for October, 1928.
.. . ,G.B. (N.Q.) : Not saleable in the open market.
See answer to 8432 J.N.G.: The process is too
complicated to explain in this page. See Verfasser’s
“The Half-tone Process,” and W. Gamble’s “Line
Photo-engraving”... .P.S.: Apply to the Registrar-
General’s Department, Queen’s-square, Sydney. A
list of shareholders can be inspected upon pay-
ment of 2s. 6d C.H.M.: Trainees for the Navy
are selected only from those youths who reside
within a radius of 3£ miles of a Naval drill-hall
M.J.M.: Orchard and vineyard employees in
N. are covered by a State award. Write to
Government Printer, Phillip-street, Sydney, and ask
for Award No. 59,4. Price 4d G.M.G.: Ford
Motor Co., of Australia, Ltd., Granville (N.5.W.)....
T. : “Bell’s Standard Elocutionist” (65.), Patry’s
“Handbook on Elocution” (6s. 6d.), Seymour’s
“Speaking in Public” (ss. 6d.), Burrill’s - Olear
Speaking and Good English” (4s. 6d.). Angus and
Robertson, Sydney... .A.R.M.M.: The Writer’s
■Own Magazine is published by Arthur H. Stock-
well, Ltd., 29 Ludgate Hill, London, E.C.4
8.D.: Shorten the longer diagonal and lengthen the
shorter until they are equal H.M.J.: The tidal
differences at Queenscliff (Vic.) are: Spring tides
4ft., neap tides 3 ft. At Sorrento back beach
(Cheviot Bay, Vic.), spring tides sft., neap tides
4ft T.L.: Apply to your State Agricultural
Department'... .F.J.P.W.: (1) No special qualifica-
tions are required. (2) No, so far as it is known.
(3) In regard to Govt, service, ask the Inspector-
General of Mental Hospitals. In regard to “private
services,” no such are known G.H.S.: Bookplate
Booklet (quarterly, 50 cents) and Bookplate
Chronicle (monthly, 10 cents), both published by
Alfred Fowler, 17 Board of Trade Building, Kansas
City, Mo., U.S.A J.T.: Write to the Registrar
of Copyrights, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C.,
U. , and ask for Bulletins, Nos. 14, 15 and 16:
and Information Circulars, Nos. 4,4 a and 52. They
will be supplied gratis. .. .P.D.: A shovelful of
ordinary stone lime, sprinkled daily over the surface
of the contents of the pit has been found effective
as a deodorant. Improvement is also effected by
making the pit flyproof, banking up the sides with
earth so as to exclude surface water, and fitting a
4in. vent pipe from under the seat, extending above
roof W.N.: The house flag of the P. and 0. Line
is a square divided diagonally into red, white, blue
and yellow quarters; the Orient Line, a blue cross
on white, crown ih centre; and the Aberdeen and
Commonwealth Line, red and blue horizontal stripes,
white star in centre... .N. 8.: “Artificial Silk,” by
E. C. Warden; article, “Artificial Silk,” by W. P.
Dreaper in Scientific American Supplement, March,
1910; and “The Rayon Industry,” by Mois H.
Auram. The last-named deals with the processes
whereby wood fibre is converted into artificial silk,
and contains a bibliography and a list of producers
and of the patents governing the industry
D.A.D.: The address is 350 George-street, Sydney.
A.N.: “How to Swim,” by Annette Kellerman
(Wm. Heinemann) ; “Swimming Scientifically
Taught,” by F. E. Dalton (Funk and W’agnall)
V. : Write to Dept, of Agriculture, Sydney, for
leaflet “Disease of Animals, No. 26 (Footrot in
Sheep).” It is gratis... .K.A.A.: Write to the
Secretary, Fur Farming Commission, Stock and
Brands Branch, Dept, of Agriculture, Sydney
Giru: The landholder through whose property the
watercourse runs has the right to have it kept free
from interruption or pollution by others, and from
trespass on its banks... .H.P.J.: (1) The money
passes to the survivor, despite anything in the will.
(2) Some doubt in absence of facts... .J.T.F.C.:
(1) The law of Vic. relating to patent medicines
will be found in sections 215 to 218 of the Vic.
Health Act 1919, and in the Food and Drug Standards
Regulations, both obtainable from the Government
Printer, Melbourne. (2) White to Col. C. \.
Watson, 581 Bourke-street, Melbourne, in regard to
patent rights R.A.: If you are not short-winded
and are perfectly healthy, why worry about the
size of your chest? Bad nerves have no influence
on the lungs or their development. Take a little
strenuous exercise every day and see that your
bowels are always kept well open.... J.W.W.: No
matter how far you carry the sequence 36, 18, 9,
44, 2f, If, etc., you’ll never get to a total of 72.
.... (Many others mailed.)


BLACK & WHITE
.......,.
m - t J —
p **
\ '' V * '
v', . ■
■ , , >' « < , w; ■ ,
'* - ,
' *5 ' * vi*' it &W' ,* y e v
• ..I ; " '
JMfiS
■
.
: X --- ■■
i
■
&
. .
m
■ . •..
■ m
'.'r!
■y
lifi
• ••'
W
Wii
■
. m
set#
'
i
‘ vi
Ilf
m
m
'tiiamMfc
REAL SCOTCH
SCOTCH WHISKY
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., 1 to 5 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY,


Despair
in the ranks of the rabbit
results in
Delight
among the men who get the
skins if the consignment is
sent to Winchcombe Carson
for sale. They are specialists
V
{ . i
a f ■ : mm
fi.l
UM
in the sale ct all classes of skins.
They sell them on commission only, never buying nor
dealing. Top market prices for skins are their
constant aim.
Consign Rabbit, Fox and all other Skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Winchcombe House, or 99-101 Eagle St.,
Bridge St., Sydney, Brisbane.
WEED TYRE CHAINS
Grip and hold under all
road conditions, eliminat-
ing costly delays and insur-
ing safe, positive traction.
Every motorist needs them.
Made in Regular and De
Luxe Patterns. In sizes to
fit all tyres—pneumatic or
solid.
Order from your dealer .
ertrety
WEED TYRE CHAINS
Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CS PARK & CASTLEREACH.
SIS SYDNEY
PRIZES FOR FARM HINTS.
Thousands of men fail on the land be-
cause they don’t know how to succeed;
many thousands more succeed less than
they should because they lack proper
guidance.
“The Bulletin” wants to encourage
farmers and scientists who know to help
those who don’t know.
With that object it offers two prizes of
£2O and £lO for the most useful contri-
butions to the “Land” pages during the
six months ending June 30 next.
All contributions submitted, whether
published or not, will be considered in
awarding points, and the prizes will go
to the winners of most points.
Points will be awarded for interest and
practical usefulness.
The prizes are additional to the usual
payment for published contributions.
4
TREATMENT OF CLAY SOILS.
“Cano”: Australia possesses large areas of
clay land which is unsuitable for the grow-
ing of any deep-rooted crops. Generally such
land consists of a dense clay subsoil under-
lying a sandy or gravelly surface a few inches
deep. The roots of a crop, having pushed
their way down through the surface soil,
encounter the clay, which checks their pro-
gress and forces the plant to send
its roots out laterally instead of searching
deeper down into the soil. The result is that
when heavy rain comes the surplus water
cannot soak into the subsoil but saturates
the thin upper layer, expelling from the
roots the air which is indispensable to plant
life and waterlogging the soil. The plant,
thus deprived of air, is unable to utilise
the water as it would under normal con-
ditions. The next stage is arrived at when
a dry spell succeeds. The superficial water
is rapidly dried out and no reserve supplies
from the subsoil are forthcoming. The effects
of this water starvation are seen in a
stunted, prematurely yellow crop with with-
ered seed which can be used only as a green
feed for sheep or stock.
The only way in which such a soil may
be made to yield is by breaking it up and
rendering its texture more friable. This
is done by deep ploughing. As it is easy by
this operation to ruin the soil for many years
to come the breaking up and loosening of
the subsoil must be done gradually, say to a
depth of three inches at each ploughing.
The next step is to introduce some agent
by which the clay may be kept in a crumbled
and broken condition. Lime at the rate of
501 b. per acre should be broadcast or drilled
in. This, when the clay becomes moist,
makes it friable and loose in texture.
Drainage is advocated by many as a means
of improving clay lands, but that deals with
only one of the difficulties. The conserva-
tion of the water in the soil, especially where
the rainfall is small, is of the first import-
ance, and this can be effected only by increas-
ing the depth to which the water can soak
into the soil.
DRAINING SWAMP LAND.
“E.H.S.”: Much damage has been caused
through carelessness or want of experience in
draining many of the rich, swampy flats in
the foothills of coastal ranges. For a year
or two after draining in specially rich dis-
tricts they have been known to carry four or
five head of cattle to the acre, but the
action of the water soon cut through
into the sand and gravel underlying
the vegetable mould, and in a remarkably
short time the drains were converted into
channels in some cases 15 or 20 feet deep
and a chain or more wide. The conse-
quent fall in water level left the adjoining
land high and dry, thus reducing the carry-
ing capacity by about four-fifths.
In draining a swampy flat care should be
taken not to break through the vegetable
mould or peaty soil. A wide and shallow
drain will obviate this and afford a more
convenient passage for stock than the com-
paratively deep, narrow channel usually
adopted. As soon as a section is completed
willow or poplar cuttings should be planted
in the drain at intervals of three or four
feet on each side. These will strike almost
immediately, and in a very short time the
sides of the drain will be protected by a net-
work of filmy roots which gradually form
a tough, fibrous layer impervious to erosion
even under the heaviest floods.
I have seen hundreds of miles of channels
constructed in light sandy loam and protected
in this way even where the water was car-
ried over depressions in the country on banks
of the same sandy loam.
SUBSOILING.
“Will Seer” : Perfect tillage is founded on
varying the depth of ploughing. When the
soil is ploughed to the same depth annually,
a consolidation takes place which, with the
downward percolation of the soil colloids,
ultimately produces a bottom or hard pan.
In many cases the depth of the top soil
precludes deep ploughing, and very often it is
so shallow that a variation in the depth of
ploughing is inadvisable.
Turning the subsoil to the surface is a
very bad practice, but the system of subsoil-
ing which stirs the subsoil without altering
its position has much to commend it. Affix
a tine to the plough so that the subsoil is
broken to a depth of three inches below the
ploughshare. The effect is threefold. The
water reservoir is increased, root develop-
ment is promoted and last, but not least,
aeration is enhanced, which means a greater
supply of available plant food and a direct
benefit from the gradual increase in the
depth of soil.
The experience of a farmer at Bacchus
Marsh (Vic.) is instructive. A 12-acre pad-
dock on the slope of a small foothill persis-
tently refused to produce an even crop. A
poor growth always occurred on the lower
levels, which, during a dry spell, would
always peter out. Spade and crowbar were
finally requisitioned, and disclosed a 3-inch
silt cement bar at a depth of 9| inches. The
layer was broken up with a tine on an old
road plough, and the response was immediate.
The cost, was infinitesimal, the extra horses
required being borrowed from a neighbor.
THE CASE AGAINST LIME.
“Agronom” : “Hatter” (B. 20/2/’29) talks
of what should happen but shuts his eyes
to what actually does happen when lime is
applied to the soil. The farmer is concerned
only with practical field results. “Hatter”
empirically assumes that, because the ash. of
citrus-fruit contains from 23 to 30 p.c. of
lime, lime should be applied to orange-
trees. Nothing could be further from the
mark. It is a typical laboratory recom-
mendation and it was made by chemists in
U.S.A. and N.S.W. A few farmers, unfor-
tunately for their pockets, tried it, and the
result was that, in both countries, the yields
were reduced every year for six or seven
years until the effects of the lime wore off
a little. What business man would put on
a ton of lime to the acre (the usual recom-
mendation), costing £3 to £4 landed on the
farm, if it was going to reduce his yields?
The intelligent and practical way to
approach the problem is by actual field trial,
not by chemical analysis, which has been
abandoned, as a guide to crop requirements,
by agricultural leaders all over the world.
The ash of citrus does not contain any
nitrogen (it having been lost during the
process of combustion), yet the trees in both
inland and coastal groves alike respond more
to the application of nitrogen than to that
of any other element.
“Hatter” says “the soil organisms do not
work or thrive well in an acid soil.” I must
contradict him. It is now definitely known
that soil organisms are more active in a
slightly acid soil than in one giving an
alkaline reaction. Further, virgin soils are
naturally acid, yet it is from them that the
heaviest yields are obtained with practically
all farm crops. Humus is one of the most
essential soil ingredients and the fertility of
soils can be more accurately measured by
ascertaining their humus content than by
any other method, yet a soil well supplied
with organic matter will always give an
acid reaction.
There is a tendency among theorists to
assume that, because a soil is acid or lacking
in lime, there is no lime present. This
is not the case. Even acid soils contain
appraciable amounts of lime, and as long as
the crops can obtain sufficient for their
requirements it is only wasting money to
apply lime. When field results show that
you need lime to make your crops grow, then
it is time enough to go to the expense of
applying it.
Don’t take “Hatter’s” advice, nor mine,
on trust. Make a small trial on your own
farm if you are thinking of using lime,
and be guided by the actual results.
“Curlew”: Whatever may be its value in
other countries and under other conditions,
in Australia, lime, speaking broadly, has not
a value commensurate with its cost, although
many Australian soils are supposed to be
deficient in lime. Years ago I experi-
mented •with lime on oats and potatoes and
found I would be throwing away good
money by using it. That has been the ex-
perience in very many Australian tests.
A. E. V. Richardson, B.Sc., says: “Lime
is always present in quantities sufficient for
the needs of crops, and is required in isolated
instances only because of its effect on the
soil texture and on soil acidity.” Mullet
and Scott say: “As a soil ameliorant lime
cannot be said to have been exhaustively
tested over the whole of Victoria. However,
where substantial dressings have been applied
to soils of the clay loam type, as at Werri-
bec, Rutherglen and the western district,
little, if any, benefit in texture has been
noted, nor are there any very marked in-
creases in production. In a large number
of instances, on soils with fairly stiff clay
subsoils, there has been no increase what-
ever.” At Werribee five tons of lime were
applied to one piece of land during 11
years without any increase having been ob-
tained in the yield of wheat. Experiments
with potatoes ’ in swamp land where lime
might reasonably have been considered neces-
sary gave negative results. In the face of
numerous experiments in Vic. experts have
been forced to the conclusion that the use of
lime is an expensive luxury.
OATS.
“Minthall”: March to early July is the
best season for planting oats, according to
locality. Late crops come. into head too
soon and do not stool. This is one of the
crops that will make a do on any soil at
all, and given fair treatment and an average
rainfall it is one of the best lines for fodder
a farmer can grow. It’s one of the few crops
too that are not over-bothered with diseases,
and if the seed is good and thrashing facili-
ties are available the grain will command a
payable price. Prepare the ground as finely
as possible—a little super, is beneficial —and
drill the seed in at the rate of one to four
bushels, according to the nature of the soil.
Heavy and wet districts need more than drier
parts where soils are light. V atch the seed-
box when drilling to ensure that the seed
flows freely. Hand-sowing, broadcast, is easy
enough on a small area.
In selecting the seed choose a variety that
has proved itself suited to your particular
district, and see that the grain is plump,
heavy, clean and free from all other seeds.
Early crops that run up rather rahkly can
with safety be fed off. Make sure that the
paddock is not too wet, and give a light
harrowing just before the growth comes on.
Another dodge to induce stooling is to roll
it in the early stages.
In harvesting, watch the crop and get co
work without delay when it is fit. A heavy
wind or storm will often bring a paddock
down, or patches of it, and make harvesting
hard. The seed should be thoroughly ripe,
but it won’t hold in the ear long, and quickly
falls. A paddock in which the seed has
fallen will give a good selLsown crop for
the following year if it is lightly ploughed
or cultivated.
The seed should never be planted deeply.
Much grain is lost by burying it.
If the crop is intended for grain the straw
is also valuable, but most farmers aim for
the oaten-chaff market, which pays well.
Take care in the harvesting and keep the
color in the crop, avoiding heating or sweat-
ing. Clean, sweet chaff with a fair percent-
age of grain is a sure seller at payable prices.
It can be stored in sheds or stacks, but guard
against rats and mice getting at the heads.
They will foul the straw.
The recent autumn rains will have made
the ground in its best condition for early
sowings this year. Even if selling is not
aimed at, a stack is a good stand-by for
farm use in dry times.
A fence round the stack of galvanised-
iron, nailed to stakes, will beat the rats
and mice.
WHEAT OR LINSEED.
“Dardadoo”: Comparative returns for
wheat and linseed are usually in favor of
wheat under present conditions iu Australia,
though the return the Cowra (N.S.W.)
grower received (B. 27/2/’29) was much
lower than usual for this product. But lin-
seed has advahtages outside its crop value. It
is valuable as a rotation crop on wheat or oat
land, as it makes such a very small demand
on the resources of the soil, and for this
reason can be grown as a cover crop to
replace fallowing. Until recently different
methods have been adopted for the produc-
tion of seed and flax respectively from lin-
seed, but now the two are being combined
so profitably that this crop is displacing
wheat for monetary value in the Argentine.
Machinery is usually required for process-
ing the flax, but a Vic. farmer started with-
out, and found linseed-growing so profitable
that he was able to instal machinery in his
third year and take a trip to Japan to shake
hands with his buyers.
For the preparation of flax the plant is
cut when the stems turn yellow from about
one-third to half their height from the
ground. The cut crop is left on the ground
until it is dry, and is then carted to a barn
to await rippling. A ripple is a simple piece
of mechanism like a comb, through which the
sheaves are drawn to release the seed- That
supplies the linseed. The straw is then
retted, and that requires a supply of water
to make the best flax, though flax that has
been “dew retted” on the grass is just as
acceptable. Bleaching is an easy matter in
Australia, as the sun will do that in a day.
Scutching, or rolling, is the next process
to separate the woody part of the stems from
the fibre, and it can be done by hand if a
small quantity is being dealt with. The flax
is then packed in bales, and is always a
readily marketable commodity. An acre of
well-cultivated linseed should yield 7cwt. of
flax and 2cwt. of tow, apart from the seed.
Linseed-growing will be more popular in
Australia when modern methods of cultiva-
tion and treatment are more widely known.
The Maoriland Government is collecting and
distributing information and encouraging lin-
seed-growing. Meggitts, Ltd., of Sydney,
have experts who will readily give advice,
and prospective Australian growers should
get in touch witli them.
RAPE AND SULPHUR.
“R.X.8.”: For many years in different
countries attempts have been made to im-
prove tlie sulphur content of certain plants,
but German and Russian scientists will not
agree with “Hatter” (B. 27/2/’29) that
this can be effectively done by the addition
of sulphur to the soil. Yankees recently dis-
covered that top-dressing pasture grasses with
soil and sulphur was harmful, and confessed
themselves baffled when plants possessing a
high sulphur content produced a higher one
still when grown in a prepared soil that
was especially deficient in sulphur. In the
production of fine wool “vegetable sulphur”
is essential, and it is remarkable that Aus-
tralia produces the quality of wool she does
when research, as far as it goes, reVeals
that our native grasses have a comparatively
small sulphur content.
Since the wool we grow must be the pro-
duct of the feed, it is surprising that sheep-
breeders generally have treated rape with
such scant courtesy. Consider its analysis.
In 10001 b. of rape there are 3.61 b. sulphur,
13.21 b. sulphuric acid, 61b. chlorine, 7.21 b.
phosphoric acid, 18.61 b. lime, 31b. soda, 26.41 b.
potash, 2001 b. protein, 4751 b. carbonaceous
matter and 201 b. fat. Compare this with a
sheep and its products, and it will be found
that all the components of the sheep are also
in rape, the sulphur content of the wool or
cystine being specially provided for.
The best food chemists could not prepare
a ration that provides such a happy combina-
tion of elements for feeding sheep, and the
piquant flavor of rape provides additional
value, since it increases the appetite and
stimulates digestion, so that all the nutriment
the plant offers is absorbed by the system.
This nutriment includes the proteins desired
for the growth of the flesh and vital organs,
the carbonaceous matter to support animal
heat, the fat for the body and fleece, the
phosphoric acid and lime for the bony
structures, the sulphur and potash for the
wool, and chlorine and soda to supply the
digestive fluids. If more sulphur is wanted
to supply more and better wool, then feed
more rape.
LOSSES ON STACK ENSILAGE.
“W.D.8.”; Those advocates of stack silage
who say there is only slight waste when this
method of conserving fodder is adopted are
too optimistic. Experiments conducted by
the N. S. Wales Dept, of Agriculture show
the loss from the top, sides and bottom of
a stack silo to be approximately 50 p.c. Maize
weighing 141 tons was ensiled in March,
and when taken out in January only 71
tons remained. It's a mistake, too, to go
in for small stacks. A stack silo of 40 tons
capacity has been recommended by a con-
tributor to this page, but I have never yet
seen a stack silo under 100 tons a success.
Smaller than that they become a mass of
decayed matter after a few months.
DOES DAIRY-FARMING PAY?
“L’Fou”: Is dairying unpaid slavery?
Well, here are a few figures, officially vouched
for, relating to a farm of 130 acres in the
Gippsland (Vic.) hill country. Much of it
is too steep for cultivation, and it is in the
heart of a bracken- and rabbit-infested dis-
trict. Cows and pigs are the leading lines.
The gross average income is £1253; £250
is deducted for stock feed bought. Since
1921 the carrying capacity, mainly as a
result of top-dressing, has increased 25 p.c.
—4O cows are now milked as against 30
formerly. An increase of £3O per year in
expenditure on fertiliser has increased the
return by £2OO per year.


Laced to perfect fit
Without strain—because the upper
actually curves to follow the arch of
the instep. So, this pliant Abbey
Shoe fastens closely and neatly while
yet allowing fullest play of the foot
muscles. It is low-cut at sides to
increase comfort and eliminate bulg-
ing. Made of black velour calf that
glosses brilliantly.
ORDER BY POST
Choice of three fittings—narrow,
medium or wide—assures exact fit
in either full or half-sizes. Specify
width when ordering. Ask also foi
the correct Abbey Black Polish (6d.
per tin).
per 42/- pair
.Enlarged catalogue of men’s, women’s and
children’s footwear, post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street, and 224 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
Lll6
Shampoo Yourself
With Cuticura Soap
Anoint the scalp, especially
spots of dandruff and itching,
if any, with Cuticura Oint-
ment. Then shampoo with a
suds of Cuticura Soap and
warm water. Rinse thorough-
ly. A healthy scalp usually
means good hair.
Soap Is., Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick li. 6d.
'<uur
<n\
ASTHMA
For the relief of
ASTHMA, CATARRH,
WHOOPING COUGH,
BRONCHITIS and
COLD IN THE HEAD
bor outdoors, use Potter s
Smoking Mixture and Cigarettes
2/6 per Tin from all Medicine
Vendors.
POTTER & CLARKE, Ltd.
Artillery Lane,
i London, Eng A
ms:
DO YOU WANT TO ENTER A PROFESSION?
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life. A profession in
which competition is limited and which offers wonderful opportunities if you have any ability
and are persevering. Our tuition gives opportunities to students not to be found elsewhere.
Write for our booklet, telling of positions, salaries and fees, to-day. Start your new career NOW.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION. LIMITED
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £250,000
ALL CLASSES OF INSURANCE EFFECTED.
Probate Disability, Extended Insurance, Non-Forfeiture,
Hospital, Medical and Nurse’s Fees Combined.
Make the event which causes the tax create the cash to pay the tax.
HEAD OFFICE: Hunter House, 26 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
A. McLEAN, Managing Director. R. V. BOOTH, Secretary.
INQUIRIES INVITED.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND AND FINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY. Also at AVAGGA & HENTY, LONDON, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE.
Auction Sales t WOOL, FAT STOCK, GRAIN, SHEEPSKINS,
Throughout the Year l HIDES, TALLOW, FURRED SKINS, etc.
Cash Advances on Pastoral Properties and Stock, Wool, Grain and Produce.
Offices: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney. JAMES KIDD, General Manager for Australia.
Are You Satisfied?
That your debts will be discharged,
That your probate duties will be paid,
That your family will be provided for.
When You Die.
353 people met untimely deaths in New South
Wales during 1928 as a result of street accidents.
EFFECT that LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY NOW!
RING OR WRITE TO
A.M.P. SOCIETY
F. T. Bridges, Acting General Manager.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Breeding and testing have also improved
the yield per cow to the extent of _ 4t).;jlb.
of butter-fat per annum. This equals £3oo
per year or £6 14s. 7d. a week. *
Top-dressing has speeded up spring growth
of pasture so that the dairy season is now
commenced two months earlier than formerly.
Among sidelines, a flock of 100 working hens
pays for the running of a fine six-cyl. motor-
car, which overcomes isolation. Increased
income is reflected in increased capital value
of the land. The average local value of land
is £l5 an acre, but this farm would bring
£3O.
The family does all the toil. But the
balance-sheet shows that, as part of annual
expenditure, the owner draws £7 a week as
wages, his two lads £2 each, with keep, and
a daughter £l. Also the family lives rent
free, and the cost of living is greatly lessened
by home-grown produce. There are no strikes,
trade depressions or periods of unemployment
from similar causes. As to hours, the essen-
tial chores are got through between 6 and
10 a.m. and 4 and 7 p.m. There are jobs
to do between, but they are jobs that can be
postponed at least occasionally. The practice
is to dry off the herd so that every cow
has a rest of from one to three months in
the year, so that there are slack periods
when the members of the family can get a
few weeks’ vacation.
SCRUB BULLS AND PURE-BREDS.
“Ruffy” : Now that a pure-bred cow is not
judged merely on the shape of her horns, but
has to prove her value (in the dairy breeds)
by the produce of her udder, there is every
incentive to use a pure-bred bull even with
common cows. But it is advisable to decide
on a breed and stick to that breed. 1 know
one dairyman who has as fine a Scotch mix-
ture of a dairy herd as might be wished.
Many years ago he handled Jersey bulls. He
had some pure Jersey cows as well. Then
there was a run on beef cattle, so lie used
a Shorthorn. That craze died after a time,
so he got a Guernsey. Later the Jersey
came back into the herd. Now he uses a
Friesian. Mongrels—my faith, yes !
But not every pure-bred bull is desirable.
Taking the last herd-testing report on pure-
breds in Vic. you will find the following
results:—
Certificated
Breed. No. Entered. per cent.
Red Poll 48 56
Milking Shorthorns .. 33 81
Friesian .. .. .. 107 71
Ayrshires 351 38
Jerseys .. .. .. 781 75
Ayrshires in general failed badly, yet one
cow gave 4881 b. butter-fat in nine months,
others 4811 b. and 4061 b.; heifers, 3951 b.,
3561 b., 3571 b. and 3421 b. The other breeds
had scrubbers at the tail of the lifet, and
a careful perusal shows that some bulls
figure time after time as the sire of inferior
cows. Some bulls appear as the sire of
both duds and high-producing cows, in which
cases probably the dud cows get their in-
feriority from the sire of their dam.
One thing seems very necessary to protect
would-be improvers of their dairy herds —
all cows in the pure-bred herd tests that
fail to gain their certificate in two consecu-
tive years should be given a distinctive
mark, and any bull calves among their pro-
geny should be compulsorily emasculated.
That would prevent breeders working off
pure-bred rubbish. That is the “scrub bull”
most to be avoided. The common mongrel
we know as such ; the fattened, sleek, well-
groomed mongrel, who may be a prize-
winner on his appearance, is the brute that
should get no quarter.
ARTICHOKES FOR TIGS.
“Reminder”: Artichokes make a cheap
and valuable pig-food. The tubers are very
nutritious, and have a stimulating effect on
both the liver and kidneys of the animals.
The plant is resistant to drought and frost,
and will produce a good crop on practically
any sort of soil, though a well-drained, sandy
loam is best. One acre of artichokes will
povide food for 15 pigs for four months.
The land should be deeply ploughed in
May or June, harrowed occasionally, lightly
reploughed in September, and well manured
with 2cwt. super, and lewt. sulphate of
potash. The tubers are planted the same as
potatoes, about 4cwt. being required per
acre. The crop will reach maturity, in
normal seasons, in five months.
The pigs should be turned in on the
matured crop and allowed to root for the
tubers. Care should be taken, however, that
the animals do not denude the patch, as a
quantity will be required for seed the fol-
lowing year.
After the pigs have gone, cultivate and
harrow the plot to a fine seed bed before
the spring. The crop need be planted only
every six or seven years.
AUSTRALIAN APPLES IN
ARGENTINA.
“Bad Australian”: “Exile” (B. 27/2/’29)
does not appear to be aware that Australian
apples have been exported to Argentina in
greater or less quantities for the last 12 or
14 years. Some exporters did fairly well at
the business, but they were people who under-
stood the requirements of Argentine dealers
and their peculiar methods of doing business.
Those who were not conversant with these
matters didn’t send a second consignment.
Since the Maoriland boats abandoned the
Cape Horn route to Great Britain, the ab-
sence of adequate means of transport has
prevented the successful continuation of the
trade. During the last seven or eight years
very considerable areas in the Rio Negro
Territory and the Province of Mendoza have
been planted with apple-trees, and, as addi-
tional orchards are being established every
year, the time is not far distant when Argen-
tina will be looking for a market for her
surplus fruit. Argentine grapes are already
on the London market.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Tansferred from Service Department-)
How should a grape-vine (trellis grape)
be pruned, and when? —9077.
The time to prune is in the winter, when
the vines are dormant. The method of prun-
ing depends upon the sort of trellis the vine
is trained on. If you supply the N.S.W.
Dept, of Agriculture with full particulars
it will be able to assist you.
How can i correctly measure a paddock
in very hilly country, very broken, with
steep gullies, without surveying? —9oB7.
It can’t be done correctly without a sur-
vey. For purposes of costing ringbarking or
clearing an approximate survey could be
carried out with compass and clinometer
only, the result being correct to about 24
p.c., or 1 acre in 40 acres.
What is the rate for ringbarking in
N.B. W. ? —9125.
A person employed ringbarking, who is
not a general farm- or station-hand, and
who is not employed by the Government or
a quasi-Government department, is entitled to
be paid at the rate of 2s. 5 l-22d. per hour.
The rate for permanent farm-hands (adults)
is £2 15s. per week with keep. This rate
does not extend, however, to employees en-
gaged on dairy farms.
Can the bush variety of eowpca be cut
with a reaper and binderf If so, what is
the best way of using if f —0227.
The reaper and binder would not be suit-
able. Cowpeas should be sown in drills for
the best results. Choose ‘‘Poona” for your
district (Berriwillock, N.S.W.) ; use 21b.
seed to the acre, dropping seed every Gin.
in drills 3ft. apart. Cut with the mowing
machine when the first pods begin to ripen.
Leave the cut hay exposed to the sun for
about four hours, then follow with the rake
and put into cocks for at least 36 hours.
Protect the haystack from rain, and don’t
stack the hay if it is too moist, as it is
liable to heat and become mouldy.
HINTS FOR TI-IE FARM.
“L.M.”: If saws, secateurs and imple-
ments used in pruning fruit-trees affected
with disease are dipped in kerosene after
use, the risk of spreading disease will be
greatly curtailed.
“E.T.”: Don’t waste soap-suds. As a
spray they are efficacious for removing scale
on citrus fruits, and when mixed with Black
Leaf 40 and other sprays makes them more
effective. The soda is good for light soils,
too. Vegetables should be irrigated between
the rows. When the -soapy water has thor-
oughly soaked in, turn the soil and mix
rotted stable manure into it. Into this can
be placed the next crop. For this culture
the rows should be at least 3ft. apart to
permit of the use of the spade or hoe.
“M.H.”: Tubs and tins used for water-
ing stock and poultry should be washed out
regularly once a week. Be sure to remove
traces of green scum (especially in copper
receptacles), which has a poisonous effect.
Fresh water should never be mixed with old
and dirty fluid in the receptacles, because
it stirs up the fluid. When it is not pos-
sible to spare fresh water, add a few grains
of Condy’s crystals to the receptacles, once
a week.
“Spade”: When'fruit has been removed
from the trees it is a good plan to have a
thorough cleaning-up. Benzol emulsion (lib.
to sgal. of water) or nicotine sulphate (lib.
to GOgal. of water) sprayed in the early
morning or at dusk will kill the Rutherglen
bug and also get rid of aphis. The trunk
of the tree should have attention, especi-
ally if it is broken and rough ; it is here
that the pests make a home through the
winter. In the autumn it is also wise to
burn off grass near the fruit-trees, where
myriads of insects shelter.
“H.8.D.”: The spray known as Black
Leaf 40 used by orchardists and garden-
ers can be made with little trouble or
expense. Take 21b. waste tobacco (dust),
3 gallons cold water and 7oz. quicklime. The
quicklime is slaked with a small quantity of
the water in a kerosene-tin. The 21b. to-
bacco is then added, the whole well stirred
and the substance allowed to react for 36
hours, the mixture being well stirred from
time to time. At the end of this time the
product is strained through a piece of coarse
sacking (chaff-bag). The residue retained
on the sacking is washed with water, and the
washings added to the liquor which had ori-
ginally passed through until the total volume
of washings measures 3gal. This 3gal. of
liquor is transferred to a glass vessel, if
possible, to allow sediment to settle, leaving
a clear light-colored product, very much the
color of beer. Before using dilute with an
equal quantity of water. Tobacco dust costs
10s. per cwt., and can be bought in half- to
five-ton lots at 6s. to Bs. per cwt. Lime
costs 4s. to ss. per cwt. The cost of pre-
paring 100 gallons of spray is 2s. to 2s. 3d.
“Agra”: Bran is one of the most palatable
and highly-esteemed concentrates for feed-
ing cattle, horses and poultry. Its bulkiness
renders it of value in giving volume to heavy
concentrates such as pollard, gluten, oaten
pollard, etc. It is fairly rich in digestible
protein, carbohydrate and fat; and it has
a highly beneficial laxative effect. It is
not, however, economical to try and balance
the ration by using bran alone; for that
purpose concentrates such as linseed meal,
brewers’ grains, cottonseed and cocoanut
meal and cake for cattle and horses, and
for pigs and poultry meat meal, should be
used. Bran is of special value in the diet
of cows just before and after calving, and,
because of-tjie lai’ge amount of phosphorus
it contains, is of great value in the ration
of growing animals.
“Bill R.”: When the eyes of a sheep run
with water and he stumbles blindly, the
probability is that he has barlev grass seeds
in his eyes. With the thumbs pressed lightly
on the eyelids roll the eyeball about. The
spines of the seed will then appear. Rake
them out with a fuzzied wax match-stalk,
and continue to investigate. There may be
more seeds to be extracted. Finally, pour
a couple of drops of castor oil in each
affected eye.
“Deejay”: Pipes from tanks, wells and
windmills are liable to crack in winter if
frosts are heavy. Generally the crack is
along the pipe and not bad enough to warrant
installing a new length of piping. A handy
makeshift is to coat the cracked area with
hot tar and then bind strong hessian or
bagging, soldiers’ puttee _ fashion, over the
lot, finishing off with twine and re-tarring.
Cut the hessian from two to four inches
wide, and have as long lengths as possible.
Start well away from the crack and don’t
end off too soon. This repair will last for
years.
“Bufforp”: For topping off cockerels or
ducks for market bring them in from free
range for a week or so before consignment,
and let them have a small shady run. Give
them all the wet mash—fresh, not sour—
and as much milk as you can, with only a
little grain. Boiled wheat is another good
fattening agent, and don’t forget cool drink-
ing water and shell-grit.


J
fr^x
!
r
*<•
r u
If t
/ ■
H
'MM
n
W 0
r ! f
f. i
Km
f
»■ *
f
• M
@HB
-
f.y
r*
*
P$
fjlt!
St i
•at- /_» . -i
9
wmtm
Wsm.
> 9
THE COSMOI
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
Metropolitan Distributors:
Melbourne: Tarrant Motors Pty., Ltd. Sydney: J. McGrath, Ltd. Brisbane: Moreton Motors, Ltd.
Adelaide: H. C. Richards, Ltd. Perth: Skipper Bailey Motors Co., Ltd.


Ver you mau travel
. -
i mmgm
—~— •mmmmml
Authorised
"■rwmnwlWMiwmi
f
"T
GENERAL
MOTORS
Genuine Parts
Sold Here
i * .. . *
l
: ■ •
:
j
>//
-.*.**■
t
iH
n
A
>LITAN SIX
4
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY., LTD.
Melbourne—Sydney—Brisbane—Adelaide—Perth
The experience of owners the world over
indicates that the greatest motor-car
manufacturer in the world—General
Motors—is secure in warranting Oakland for
a period four times as long as that generally
considered. And it must be a source of
great satisfaction to know that a Company
of such high repute is ready with its bond
to insure for Oakland owners care-free and
trouble-free travel.
General Motors warrants Oakland —The
Cosmopolitan Six—for a full year. Its
engineers have already seen Oakland overcome
the most rigid tests in all the world—swiftly,
easily, quietly, mile after mile.
The ease with which Oakland vanquishes the
steepest hills of Central America proves that
Oakland will perform admirably in less hilly
countries. Owners all over the world know that
the Oakland which is free from trouble after a
year of traversing the rutted roads of South
Africa will perform for long life over the
roads of Australia. They know that, with this
experience, Oakland will satisfy not only them-
selves, but the most critical owners in all the'
world.
Owners who have covered hundreds of
thousands of miles in all parts of the world
have found Oakland always dependable.
And, on those occasions when attention to
the car is necessary, skilled service and spare
parts are always at hand.
The Australian owner, whether his car is
used within the limits of the big city or awav
out in the never never, has the assurance
of such service whenever and wherever he
may need it.
Prices from £4 JO A
, i


: J
A*-
<r><2sN’i» V i
: SB ;)
IkSfil
"Vv.J #**
■s -» > •**''*
>
O
i s&
IJ -vC
“Its Quality Never Changes.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
ACCURATE SHOOTING AT 500 YARDS.
3^3
NEW IMPROVED CADET RIFLE.
Hundreds of satisfied Shooters have used
297/230 CALIBRE CADET RIFLES.
This is an ideal sporting rifle. Fires a central fire cartridge larger than a .22
calibre, and is accurate up to 500 yards. 4in. barrel. Lnder-leyer Martini
action, quick and certain in extraction of empty shells. Detachable lock. Elevatin
ladder rear sight and protected bead front,sight. Fitted complete with eleanm
rod and brush /5/ -
CARTRIDGES.—Long (actual size illustrated) 7/6 per 100
Short 5 / 6 »
<N cr?
Vi
LTD
PTY
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
SMOKE-OH!
One way to bowl out the razor-gangster
would be to knock off his bail.
* *
“Askerl why, if her husband had knocked her
about every day, she had stayed with him for four
years, plaintiff said that she always hoped he would
improve.” — : Police Court report.
And every day in every way she got bat-
tered and battered.
* *
The winner of a women’s walking race;
at Sydney travelled at the rate of 8 m.p.h.
Enough to secure any girl the best remnant
on the bargain table.
* *
Although the recent strike at the Broken
Hill municipal electricity station plunged
the town into darkness members of the
council continued to maintain an unlimited
output of gas.
SHE TOOK HIS WARNINGS TO HEART.
“It must be lovely to have a big brother like yours to warn you
of the men who’re not nice to know.”
“Yes, if it wasn’t for Bill I’d miss a lot of fun!”
“I would describe Enkelstein,” said the
Official Receiver, “as the type of business
man who always fails to succeed.”
* #
CATCH AS CATCH CAN.
“ ‘Then,’ said the petitioner, ‘I turned to the
man and said, “Well, catch this,” at the same time
hitting him in the left eye.’ ” —Sydney Divorce report.
The fact that the man did catch it proved
that he took a sporting interest in the game.
One who was without the good old British
spirit that won the battle of Waterloo might
have dodged and made some such miserable
excuse ns that he was out of practice or
was a right-eyed catcher. In this case the
game seems to have ended rather soon.
According to the rules, the first catcher
(sometimes known as "sheik” or "co-re’)
should have responded briskly with "And you
catch that!” After his ris-ti-vix had skilfully
taken the return with his nose there should
have been a 'smart rally, with plenty of
clever catching on jaw, stomach, etc., until
someone in the crowd called in a police-
man to act as referee. At this stage mem-
bers of the Force often display marked
catching ability themselves. It is not un-
usual for a policeman to catch a full toss
on the base of the skull from a supporter
of one side or the other —both bricks and
bottles being collected by veteran players
with equal skill. t
A baby was found on the doorstep of the
Melbourne Hospital last week. He is under-
stood to have been on the look-out for a door-
stepfather.
WHAT THEY ARE READING.
(Going a step further than the newspapers which
merely ask our prominent citizens what they are
reading, we have also interrogated their wives.)
J. R. Howl, K.C.: —The Collected Writ-
ings of Publius Syrus. Plays of Euripides.
Cicero’s description of the Flight of Catiline.
(All in the original.)
Mrs. Howl :—Mr. Howl is a regular
student of the S. M. Herald law reports
and the Sun cricket notes. He started one
of Edgar Wallace’s novels last month, but
put it aside as “a bit too higli-brow.”
Ephraim Blister (the eminent wine and
spirit merchant) : —Works of Shakspcare.
Milton’s Poems. My Bible.
Mrs. Blister: —Ephraim doesn’t get
much time for read-
ing, though he was
a great one for
adventure - stories
as a boy, 1 believe,
and stili loves to
dig into “Jack
Harkaway” when
on our holidays.
His chief literary
amusement after
the day’s work is
to go through our
advertisements and
see if he can catch
one of the papers
out in a mistake.
He started to read
a serial once--
“Brimming Vats”
was the name —but
dropped it when he
found it wasn’t
about the liquor
trade.
Ja s . Smugge,
M.L.A.: Shak-
speare’s Plays
(not the Poems).
Smile s’s “Self-
Help.” The Good
Book—l never tire
of it.
Mrs. Smugge :
—Anything about
Parliament in the
papers. His
speeches in Han-
sard.
Sir Jonas Jum-
buck, M.L.C.: —•
Plato’s work s.
Foundations of the
Republic (Cool-
idge). Morley’s Life of Gladstone.
Lady Jtjmbuck :—Anything he can find
in the papers about horses or sheep.
Bloggs.
¥ *
“ ‘I say nothing,’ said Mr. W. M. Hughes.”
The first medical bulletin is anxiously
awaited.
Even Melbourne’s reputa-
tion for lawlessness had not
prepared Australia for the hold-up of. an
“express” by barrackers at the M.C.G.
* *
THE INGRATE.
Oh, I’ve been to all the beauty spots—
wherever a car can go,
And I’ve hunted round while the others
bathed in the lake ere the sun got low.
il ly aunt having said, “Get some mushrooms,
Ann, and a nice fresh hunch of tips;
You know you should be most thankful, dear,
for these lovely little trips.
We’ll wait for you at the top of the hill,
in the shade of the service station.”
I can’t say “No, I don’t want to go,” for I'm
merely the poor relation.
There arc days when we take the Mountains
road, which is rough and dusty and hot.
And then I’m afraid that I’m even less
contented with, my lot.
At wayside stalls we get our week’s supply
of garden truck,
And eggs and butter at bedrock cost if my
aunt has any luck.
It’s all piled in on each side of me, and
over and round my feet
Where I sit in the hole at the back of the
car—the poor relation’s scat.
O. H. G.
NO SHIRKERS.
The, bell in fhe tower rang loudly out
It.s message to one and all,
And even those who were not devout
Were glad, to answer its call.
I didn't delay a second to hark
To it, or to sing its praises,
For the man on the tower had seen a shark,
And I swam to the shore like blazes!
DORIC.
THE TASTEFUL TOILERS.
“A witness at the N.'S.W. Rural Wage inquiry
put down amongst necessary clothing two shirts at
255. each. When a shirt of the type usually worn
by Cabinet Ministers was shown to him, he said
that he would not like to wear it for best. Another
witness said ‘I might stand that for a working shirt,
but I don’t like the color.’ ’’
The swaggie stopped ironing his dress tie
and looked up at the crunch of footsteps
on the dry leaves. There was hostility on his
carefully-massaged face until he noticed the
matching of the newcomer’s tie and socks.
“Hallo, mate!” he said. “If you’re think-
ing of camping, make yourself at home.
You’ll find an extra coat-hanger in the tent.”
In a few minutes they were sitting by
the fire exchanging manicure-sets and eye-
brow-pencils like old cobbers.
“My name,” said the owner of the camp,
AN INCONSIDERATE HUSBAND.
“No bottles, Mary. My hubby doesn’t drink.”
“Py cripe, that bad ’fella! How you getten picture-
show money?”
“is Cecil Cholmondeley de Brown, You
are” „ . , „
“Maurice Montmorency le Smith, was the
reply. “I say, would you mind my congratu-
lating you on that shirt? I simply love the
color.”
Cecil flushed with pleasure.
“It caught my eye at Anthony .Toners,
and I had to have it. Don’t you think it
was cheap at 375. ll id.?”
“Amazingly so,” said Maurice. I got.
one for the shearing last year, and it cost
me 455. But, then, it was silk, with large
pink and green spots.”
“You saw that old bloke who was mooch-
ing down the road when you came along; 1
said Cecil. “He had the cheek to want to
camp here. No collar, no tie, and his trous-
ers! My God! They hadn’t been pressed,
I’ll swear, since he bought them ! And ready-
mades at that!”
Maurice shivered,
A shadow suddenly crossed Cecil s face.
“That reminds me of my
loss,’’ he said ruefully. “I
left :ny trouser-press behind
in Sydney.”
“Use mine, old chap,’
cried Maurice. “Have you
just left Sydney?”
“Yes. A man has to go
down once every three
months to keep in touch with
the fashions.”
“I haven’t been able to
have a look at them for six
months,” said Maurice
gloomily. .
“You’ll like to see David
Horners’ autumn catalogue,
then,” suggested Cecil, rising
and fumbling in his swag.
“My oath !” cried Maurice.
In another moment the
hardy bush workers were
poring, with thrilled interest,
oVer the illustrations, and
giving occasional gurgles of
joy as something particu-
larly fascinating in chic
men’s wear caught their
eyes.
H. M.
YAIRS!
(A daring treatment of a hitherto unex-
ploited theme.)
Book the First. Revolt.
Maisie Morocain, her Titian hair tossing
in the breeze, stamped angrily She had
always hated school. She had always loathed
discipline. She had always detested house-
work or any other kind of work. A passion-
ate rebel, she scorned the accepted tradition
of the domestic slavery of Woman. And
t h en —this! John Claypole, dismissed an
hour ago, rose persistently before her con-
sciousness. She recalled every moment of
the scene as if it were etched upon her
brain “I thought as ’ow yous could eip
me with the ceows” "And be a slave,
chattel!” she had stormed. “Yairs,
had said. And then, ox-like bewilderment in
his large agricultural eyes, he had wa
slowly to the gate, his head bowed,
shoulders sagging, to go back to the
where men were men.
Book the Second. The Jolt. .
Maisie petulantly tossed aside the P m( -n
.of cocaine which she had been about to app y
to her delicate nose. She was torn by gloom
doubts and fears. And yet she had arrive' .
Her first novel, “Satan’s Wedding, ua
sold 13,000 in three weeks. Her
second, “Sometimes They Don t,
lmd been translated into Jap-
anese, Goanese and now Man-
ganese. She had before her a
contract for her third—“l ink
Undies.” Yet was she happy.
Certainly not. Hector Sprowle,
the ex-alderman.... how she
loathed his pink, bald head, his
•thick acquisitive lips, his P l '®"
datory leer! He had called
that afternoon, appraising her
with narrowed eyes .... as
though she had been a commis-
sion for services rendered at
tlie Town llall. Then he had
asked her to marry him—the
last insult! Ever temperamen-
tal, she had snatched the ormolu
clock from the mantelpiece and
dashed it at his pink head....
Fotunately he was a practised
dodger, or she, Maisie Morocain,
might even now have been in a
cell awaiting the attentions of
a hangman.... “You are
answered,” she had panted, and
the Sprowle creature had taken
his unclean presence out of her
life She had flung the win-
dows wide, as though to rid the
room of a pollution ; then, hat-
less, she had walked and walked
Now she had returned. She
took up the typescript of
“Pink Undies.” It was enough that Sprowle
had praised the work. She burnt it. Then
she burnt the contract —lie had said gloat-
ingly that it was a good one. That night
Mrs. McTaggart, her housekeeper, heard the
sound of dry sobs —the worst kind of sobs
there are. What is Fame? Well, what is it?
Book the Third. The Holt.
With bowed back and prematurely white
hair, John Claypole was digging potatoes.
He looked up, and she stood before him —or
was it a dream? “Oh, John, John,” she
breathed, “I have learned my lesson.”
“Yairs?” said John. “Yes,” she crooned
softly. “I have tired of the artificiality of
it all lolin, I was blind. Not blind drunk
—the other sort of blindness. Now, John,
I am well again. Take me—l am yours.”
John Claypole straightened himself. The
sweat was pouring from his furrowed brow\
His jaw sagged. His bucolic eyes were heavy
with emotion. It was his Mome.nt. “Yairs?”
SHE KNEW WHAT CHURCHES ARE FOR.
COUNTRY AUNT: “Aren’t you coming to church with
me, my pet?”
CITY NIECE: “Church? What, somebody getting
married?”
he said hoarsely. “Good-oh, Mais. Wait a
shake till I get cleaned and we’ll see Rev-
erend Barnes.”
Epilogue.
The wedding was over. The tin-kettling,
to which half the population of the shire had
gathered in sulkies. Fords, pushbikes and on
foot, had ended. Maisie and John stood hand
in hand at the door. The setting sun cast
a last gleam on the ordered piles of spud 3,
the green things growing, the hens, the
cows.... She drew down his head. Her
eyes were starry.
“My man!” she whispered.
“Yairs,” said John.
The End.
WAWHERESH.


M
ent alone .
o o
can win such popularity
JR* J3L,
The instant success of the new De
Soto Six is renewed proof that the
Australian public appreciates and
rewards true distinction and quality
in a car of moderate price.
The unmistakable enthusiasm which
greeted the introduction of this new
Chrysler-built Six a few weeks ago
has swelled into a great chorus of
approval—backed by a record-
breaking avalanche of orders.
You are invited to confirm this
popular judgment for yourself. See
and drive the new De Soto Six —and
you will applaud the verdict of a
host of owners who rate it supreme
in value.
>< t'i-ie \2s
i
2 2 2
t
MS®
V
A MuUum pro parvo
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DE SOTO DISTRIBUTORS
New South Wales: GRENVILLE MOTORS LTD.,
205-213 William Street, Sydney.
Victoria: AUTOMOBILES PROPRIETARY LTD.,
92 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: STRADBROKE MOTORS LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: DOMINION MOTORS LTD.,
Flinders Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: WENTWORTH MOTORS LTD.,
Milligan Street, Perth.
New Zealand: NEW ZEALAND MOTORS LTD.,
Wellington.
DE SOTO MOTOR CORPORATION (Division of Chrysler Corporation), DETROIT, MICHIGAN
DeSoto Six
PRODUCT of CHRYSLER
D 503


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
*5
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
VISITORS TO THE CONTINENT OF EUROPE
Do not fail to visit
THE PARIS
INTERNATIONAL FAIR
MAY II lo 26
Further particulars obtainable from
THE FRENCH TRADE COMMISSIONER,
Kembla Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
Babies
thrive on
ertrety
„ IS so
nourishinq and
easy to digest
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
A ROGUE IN AMBER
By- J. B. COOPER
Illustrations by^Percy Liixdsoy-
Synopsis : Antonio Saccaco, a Nea-
politan and a merry fellow, gets into
trouble and flees to Baris, where he
marries Jeannette Mortier. Soon
afterwards he and a friend, Fran-
cois Neigrc, murder and rob the
Baroness Bellarosa; but Saccaco,
holding the booty, allows his partner
to be taken by the police. To Jeannette
he is indebted for his escape from
Baris. Twenty years later, under the
name of Carducci, he is a hawker
on the river Murray, with Jean-
nette and their handsome daughter
Marie, living on board the launch.
Marie, whom Carducci designs to use,
in his own money-making schemes, has
secret meetings with Gerald Dea-
con. They are discovered by Carducci,
who draws a knife but is knocked out
by Gerald, and next day Gerald’s
father, who wants his son to marry
Betty Calcroft, pays £25 compensation
on condition that Carducci will go to
Bourke to collect it or go to gaol a.s-
a blackmailer. Carducci decides in
favor of Bourke, but before his boat,
the Witch, reaches the Darling Marie
and Gerald contrive to exchange im-
passioned letters.
THE harvest of fruits was over. The
pickers, picturesque wanderers from
various States and nomads of the
bush, had folded up their tents, and for a
year they were gone. Red and yellow
autumn tints were stealing tip-toe into the
vineyards. The river was beginning to
faintly croon, anticipating the coming waters
from the Snowy Ranges and Mount Kos-
ciusko. Soon it would burst into joyous
song, rushing over sun-baked flats of white
sand.
The last loads of the harvest fruits were
leaving the packing sheds, in white, clean,
aromatic pine boxes, tons upon tons of
golden-colored lexias and sultanas and
raisins starting on their journey along the
world’s roads, taking with them some of
the health and sunshine of the irrigation
settlements.
Floating on waters that had come down
unexpectedly from Queensland, the Witch
had reached Bourke, and Carducci had col-
lected Mr. Deacon’s draft for £25. He had
then assigned his interest in the boat for
the benefit of his creditors. Within twenty-
four hours the assignee had arranged for
her to be taken to Wentworth. He
offered Carducci and his family a passage
down-river, but Carducci declined, declaring
that, since he no longer owned the family’s
old home, he could not bear to remain in
it. He said he would remove their per-
sonal belongings in the morning. This
intention he carried out.
Twelve hours afterwards, when the Witch
was well down the river, she burst into
flames, the fire starting in the petrol locker.
Those on board had no alternative but to
run her inshore and abandon her. She was
consumed to the water’s edge, and then sank.
Attempts by the creditors of Carducci to
arrive at the true source of the fire failed.
The outbreak was regarded with the gravest
suspicion; but as the fire took place twelve
hours after the Italian had left the boat, it
was extremely difficult to connect him with
it. Besides, the men in charge of the
Witch declared that they were positive the
boat and the petrol locker were free from
any sign of fire before the sudden and
mysterious outbreak. In their opinion the
fire was caused by petrol fumes becoming
ignited, how they could not say, but cer-
tainly they believed that the fire hffd not
its origin in any act of Carducci. Even that
rogue, they said, could not have set fire to
a boat while it was in their possession and
twelve hours after he had left it. That
opinion seemed to be conclusive, and
the burning of the Witch in such peculiar
circumstances remained a river mystery,
destined to be unsolved so far as the
creditors were concerned.
Carducci had been in touch with his
lawyer, Pinch, who had drafted a letter for
him to forward to the trade assignee. Marie
copied the letter for him; in it Carducci
was made to say he was very sad to think
that the Witch, which had been-his floating
home for so long, had been burnt. He had
assigned, in good faith, to his creditors all
the interest he possessed in her, and he re-
gretted that that interest was so small a
one, amounting to only a few pounds. The
balance of the interest, as they might easily
ascertain, belonged to his wife.
Strange to say, every statement Carducci
made in his letter was true in fact, if not
in substance. The law could not touch
him. The boat was insured in the name of
Jeannette Carducci, the owner, for the sum
of £550. After the usual inquiries the
insurance company, not without reluctance
—for its managers sensed a fraud somewhere
—paid the £550. They had been advised
that the position of the Carduccis was un-
assailable.
Carducci professed to his wife that he
was as mystified as anyone over the origin
“He circled his arm around Betty and kissed her gently on her lips raised to meet his.”
of the fire. He possibly had forgotten that
he had left certain sticks of phosphorus in
a ball of damped clay, concealed beneath
the floor of the locker in which the boat’s
petrol was kept.
After collecting the insurance money in
Adelaide the Carduccis crossed over to Mel-
bourne, where the Italian peddler, thinking
it just as well to lie low for a while, bought
a fruit-shop, and was soon lost among the
crowd of his countrymen who carry on that
business in the larger cities and towns of
Australia.
Chapter VI.
The Clintons lived at St. Hilda, not far
from the Esplanade. Their house was of the
gable-fronted type, and often on hot even-
ings the door
stood open wide
to. allow sea
oreezes to enter.
Passers along
the street, look-
ing into the hall, saw a red carpet
and a stand with four or five hats hanging
on its pegs, hats of various kinds, from a
pith helmet to a crush peak-cap. The hats
proclaimed the personality of their owner,
James Clinton, stockbroker, who carried his
fifty-eight years with a verve approaching
the sprightliness of youth. Leonine masses
of iron-grey hair joined his sharply trimmed
brown beard that was having a late autumn.
His brows were high and shaggy, and
shaded quick-glancing humorous eyes. He
stood five (feet ten in his socks, and had broad
shoulders, with limbs fining to the points.
He played golf, was a member of the local
yacht club, paid his church dues, and feared
no man. His proof of success in life was
the man as he stood in his home, a loved
husband and the father of two girls, Madge
and Milly, who adored him. Men on the
Stock Exchange, when in a tight corner,
went to him for advice. He found happi-
ness in helping others, and his right
hand did not know what his left gave.
Jimmie Clinton was the most popular man
on ’Change, and Jimmie’s birthday was
never forgotten.
When Victoria Dawson married Robert
Calcroft her sister Milly was engaged to
James Clinton. Clinton said it was time the
partnership of Dawson and Clinton started.
Milly spoke of waiting a little longer. The
dalliance with anticipated happiness seemed
to intrigue her, but Clinton insisted that
they must get married at once, because the
members of the Stock Exchange were
already making arrangements to present
her with silver tea and coffee service and
a salver. That ended the argument.
Milly missed Vic very much when she
left her home in Melbourne to start life
as a settler’s wife on a fruit orchard and
vineyard at one of the Murray settlements.
Though the paths of their lives were now
apart, the two sisters corresponded regu-
larly. They found a hundred things to
write concerning their wonderful babies.
These interests were kept alive not only by
their letters, but by several visits every
year—Mrs. Calcroft and her two girls went
to St, Hilda to stay with Auntie Milly for
a few weeks, and then the Clinton girls
made the journey to Mildura to stay with
Auntie Vic.
When the children grew up to be young
women their mothers’ interests still ran
in the same grooves. They both had the
problem of their daughters’ future before
them. This was made the subject of very
close confidences. They regarded the
arrangement of the marriage of their daugh-
ters as a duty that devolved upon them.
It was for them to see that marriages took
place, in due course, with the right men,
selected preferably by their mothers’ far-
seeing eyes. In such affairs of heart, posi-
tion and worldly goods, both sisters
persuaded themselves that a mother’s
advice was beyond value. In the mean-
while their daughters went mostly on their
own ways. They were unconscious of their
mothers’ heart-to-heart discussions on their
prospects; they did not even realise what
an important chattel a man is to a woman
when he becomes her husband.
The two sisters, though keen to act the
part of matchmakers, were far above playing
their parts in any but a legitimate manner.
They were both of them fine, capable
women and worthy matrons.
The co-ordination of family interests
made the way easy for Betty Calcroft to
leave Mildura and live with the Clintons
while she did a co.urse in art at the
Melbourne Gallery. Betty’s departure
created a little stir in the social
world of the river town. She
was greatly farewelled —it was
all very pleasani, and she
would have been more than
human if she did not like it.
In the midst of it her mind
ran very often out back. She
visualised a brown Australian,
in shirt sleeves, upon a roan
horse, two dogs following, with
sheep ahead of man, horse and
dogs. The man lived tvventy
miles away. Twenty miles—
but the roan horse was a good
one!
Jack Carew, strong Jack
Carew, was tall, lithe, with
clear-cut fea-
tures, tanned,
and a bushman
every inch of
him. He had a
smile that came
easily to his
lips. Hair cov-
ered his freckled
forearms, that
terminated in
big wrist-bones
and a pair of
hands furnished
with fingers
tough almost as fencing-wire.
He had the dust of the plains
on him. His grey-blue eyes
were the mirrors of long dis-
tances. He was as simple as a
child, and quite innocent of
any knowledge of what a good
fellow he was. He admired
Betty Calcroft with his whole being. When
her small, shapely hand was covered up in
his brown paw he gripped harder than he
knew. Yet, while he could not help letting
his heart slip into his handshake with Betty,
he was too shy to put his love into spoken
words.
Jack’s life was in his tanned face for
those who could read the leaves of the
Australian bush. That bush writes lines on
men’s faces, and often they are lines of
greatness.
The Carews were farmers across the river.
They had no long records of a family-tree
with roots in bygone ages, but they were
men, as Gerald, who had an eye to the
heart of things, had told his father. JaeK
had in his still brief life ridden beneath
(Continued on page 51.)


Prettu!
lc)e ©ainty!
lac a- Ixexom
S'wC l
f(je ty 3 ettu!
lc)e,
I/)e a- Rexona,
S'Vpt!
: i
7
S'
m
V
*
.
MRS. MOLLY PURVIS , an attractive Rexona Girl
and winner of the Launceston Weekly CouniEn
Bob and Shingle Competition, writes —“I have
always used Rexona Soap as a shampoo for the hair
■ —l think there is nothing like it.”
MISS VI. PITT, a charming Rexona Girl, writes—
“l have been using Rexoya Soap for a number of
years, and I find nothing to equal it for keeping
the skin and hair in perfect condition.”
MISS KATHLEEN PICKETT, a beautiful Rexona
Girl, writes —'7 use only Rexona Soap for my skin
and hair, which gives the best results.”
Girls!
Beautify
Your
Hair.
Do you know that in less than ten minutes
you can double the beauty of your hair?
It becomes light, wavy, fluffy, abundant,
and appears as soft, lustrous and charm-
ing as anyone could desire after a simple
wash with Rexona Soap.
A delightful surprise awaits those whose
hair has been neglected, or is scraggy,
dry, brittle or thin.
Rexona Soap cleanses the hair of all dust,
dirt or excess oil, and in a few moments
you have doubled the beauty of your
hair.
Rexona Soap removes every particle of
dandruff, cleanses, purifies and invigor-
ates the scalp, forever stopping itching
and falling hair.
If you care to have pretty hair and lots
of it, get a tablet of Rexona Soap to-day.
ti
m
w'/fi,
’M
U
i
■a*"
I
S't
Cxi
1*“
Hiii.
HIT,
1
wm
It’s
Medicated !
Mist LILY BRAITLING, a beautiful Rexona Girl,
writes: “1 have always used Rexona Soap, and I
find that for shampooing the hair, it is absolutely
par-excellence, and I would use no other.”
MISS SWAN IE McCARTHY, a dainty Rexona Girl,
writes. —“I use only Rexona Soap, and find it
superior to all others for the skin and hair.”
Jvexena
c%r Health
j^eauty
ertrety
Soap
Why Not
Enjoy a
Good
Complexion?
You cannot if you do not care for the
delicate skin of the face. When you wash
your face do you realise that it is not
enough to simply remove the dirt, but
that your skin needs a soothing, healing
influence to keep your complexion fresh
and free from blemish? Scented toilet
soaps are often very pleasant, but do not
assert this influence, as you are well aware.
Many of them contain free alkali, which
tends to dry up the skin and destroy its
delicate texture.
Even the better class of such soaps do
not in any way help to improve the skin,
but Rexona Skin and Facial Soap is not
only an absolutely pure soap, but is medi-
cated on the same principle as the famous
Rexona Ointment, which is known
throughout Australasia as the Rapid
Healer.
That is why Rexona Soap really does for
the skin and face what cosmetics are sup-
posed to do, by ensuring not only a clean
face, but a pure and healthy skin, and
thus gives you a clear complexion.
mm.
rrrrtTTS,',
m
V/,
V.P?*
\Q»*'
ad*** 1
K',
mm
w:',
dfit •
O-^
S*
Q\jW\
It’s
Medicated !


s
A BOY’S FESTERED KNEE.
“My little boy tell and cut his knee terribly.
Although I tried almost everything, the sore
remained in fearful condition. A friend advised
Zam-Buk. This balm caused the healing to pro-
gress rapidly and soon put the child right again."
Mrs. E. Bean, 68 Halifax Street, Adelaide.
BURNS AND SCALDS.
“Through upsetting the
kettle, my hand and wrist
were badly scalded. Big
blisters formed and broke,
leaving a mass of painful, raw
flesh. Zam-Buli look out all
‘heat’ and pain; it caused
inflammation to subside and
new tissue to grow. Zam-Buk
healed without leaving a trace
of the injuries.”—Mrs. F.
Phillips, Cecil Cottage,
Logan Road, S.E. Brisbane.
POISONED WOUNDS,
“I knocked my ankle against
an iron fender. Dye from my
stocking got into the sore
place, causing serious inflam-
mation and ulceration. I was
laid up for weeks in awful
pain. However, Zam-Buk
proved most soothing. It
drew out all corruption,
allayed inflammation and
soon healed the wound.”—
Mrs. R. Palmer, 139 Crown
Street, Darlinghurst, Sydney.
cjsty first
T Prompt Use Of ZAM-BUK If
Averts Blood-Poison jj
•‘MINETY-NINE per cent, of cases of
septic poisoning arise through neglect
of trifling cuts and scratches,” says a big
works manager.
Whether for accidents at home or at work Zam-Buk
is the ideal safety-first healer. Prompt application of a
little Zam-Buk to any cut, scratch, burn or abrasion, pre-
vents poisonous germs from infecting broken tissues.
Zam-Buk is the safety-first healer because it acts on the skin
in three ways. It at once soothes and allays inflammation and
swelling. It relieves pain and checks bleeding almost immediately.
Secondly, Zam-Buk is a splendid antiseptic; it kills and excludes
disease germs and averts or checks blood-poison. Finally, Zam-Buk
heals swiftly and naturally by promoting growth of new, healthy
skin.
If the sore place be blistered and inflamed (as in a burn Of
scald), spread Zam-Buk on a piece of lint or clean rag.
Zam-Buk owes it 3 exceptional healing virtues to its rare
herbal character, its refinement and its absolute freedom from the
animal fats and mineral drugs found in ordinary ointments and
salves.
Be sure and keep a box of this safety-first healer alway*
handy.
-Bilk.
Obtainable of chemists everywhere, 1/6 box or 3/6
family size. Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap, 1/- a tablet.
“A SURGERY IN A TWO-INCH BOX.
»»
UGHT AND HEAT THE COLEMAN WAY
J Have This Better Light in
Your Home, Too
You’ll find the QUICK-LITE Lamp ideal
for every light need throughout the house.
Always ready with 300 candle-power of
pure white, cheerful brilliance. Brighter
than 20 old-style kerosene lamps. Clean,
convenient, safe. More than a million
fn use.
Coleman Quick-Lite
“The Sunshine of the Night.”
No wicks to clean ; no chimneys to
wash ; no daily filling. This beauti-
ful lamp and gasoline for a year cost
much less than just the kerosene
needed for an oil lamp. Just the
light for reading and sewing.
li asWiy'
v\r
PRICE 75/-
COLEMAN QUICK-LITE CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
185 William Street, Melbourne, Cl, Victoria.
718 Harris Street, Ultimo, Sydney, N.S.W.
31 Bower Building, Charles Street, Adelaide, S.A,
The Small-Cost Heater
with a Big Lot of Heat .
Heats like Sunshine—a penetrat-
ing heat that warms and cheers.
A
1
£
You Can Cook Price
on It, Too! £5/10/-
Use it upstairs, downstairs —all
around the house—for quick heat-
ing and quick cooking.
1
96
V
Coleman Quiek-Lite Lantern is
the “Light of a Thousand Uses”
for out-of-doors night work. It
is just the thing for night plough-
ing, harvesting, feeding, repair-
ing, choring or any sort of after-
sundown work about the farm.
It is used by liverymen, night watch-
men, garage men, and to light up filling
stations, tent-shows, street stands, pub-
lic meetings, etc. The Quick-Lite Lan-
tern is a necessary item for camping,
touring, night fishing, night picnics,
hunting or any sort of pleasure trip
where light is needed.
The light is protected by a mica chim-
ney which makes it wind proof, storm
proof and bug proof. It won’t blow out.
Gives a steady bright 300-candlepower
light in any kind of weather. Can be
used in a thousand places where the
common kerosene lantern is useless.
Price -
and - -
- - 65/-
- - 75/-


By K.P.M. de Luxe Liners to
JAVA and SUMATRA
T.S.S. NIEUW HOLLAND T.S.S. NIEUW ZEELAND
11,000 Tons
First - class
Return Fares
to Java from
Sydney and
Brisbane:
£Bl
From Melbourne
£B7
■
ww
WA
■as&< m
jsgcr; ;•:
I
■ ■ - --
Return Fares
to Penang and
Bela wan (Sum-
atra) from
Sydney:
£99
From Melbourne
£lO5
Largest, fastest and most luxurious Mail Liners, via the Great
Barrier to Macassar (Celebes), Java, Singapore, Penang and
Belawan Deli (Sumatra) direct.
Head Office for Australasia:
ROYAL. PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY
(K.P.M. Line),
255 George Street, Sydney.
The Finest Razor
that money can buy
A genuine KROPP Razor will give you quick, clean,
comfortable shaves for a life time* It is an all-British
Razor, hand-forged in Sheffield, England, by the World's
most expert craftsmen.
KROPP
never
requites
grinding
ALL-BRITISH
From the usual Dealers. Black Ivory or Xylonite Handles.
Wholesale onIy:—OSBORNE, GARRETT & CO., LTD., London, England.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
w'
RITISH
MADE
Perfection
RUBBER
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
Dependable /
Mo>wg£H
XCRAIG & Aitken
Dishibutorj
S tjdnetj N.5.W.
ff I 1 * 1 ® ENGLAND
Kg*
J
a'-/
%
" c~
- ,-r*
■ <A
St- ■*
fc,
JAt'/l
•
<¥
e
y
IT IS EASIER AND BETTER BY CAR.
Speed away into the open countryside
of rural England, in a Car of your own.
HENLYS will sell you a Car and Guarantee
to repurchase it at a definite price fixed at the
time of buying. This will enable you to
r approximate your expenditure of running a
Car, which is cheaper than hiring ; does
away with irritating formalities, and
your car is always at hand to go
wherever you like. You can use
it till the last day of your holiday,
with no worries of trying to find
a purch iser.
HENLYS LEAVE CAR SERVICE is
the n ost comprehensive ever evolved.
Send for a Brochure “Seeing England
by Car ” giving full particulars, and
when in England call and inspect
our huge and varied selection of
up-to-date models.
HENLYS
England’s Leading Motor Agents.
Devonshire House, Piccadilly, W. 1
and 9 Branches in London & Manchester.
» - ■ *- r * Free Copy of “Seeing England by Car will
be sent free on application from the offices of this paper, 214 George Street North, Sydney.
Pen and Picture
Shadow Shows
“In Old Ari-
zona,” the Fox
production that
has been given
a n airing a t
Sydney Regent,
is the most am-
bitious talkie to
date, and is
in some respects a good entertainer, but it
insistently reveals an important weakness in
the noisy film. The story concerns a greaser
bandit and the efforts to get him of the
breed of half-wits and gorillas who, accord-
ing to Hollywood, represent and uphold law
and order in U.S.A. A typically fatuous
sergeant is put on the track, becomes
acquainted with his man and also with his
man’s inamorata, with whom the t.f.s. falls
in love. The girl, preferring the sergeant’s
promises of New York to the bandit’s pro-
mises of Portugal, sends a message with
intent to have the bandit killed. The bandit
intercepts it and substitutes a note assert-
ing—without apologising to O. Henry—that
he is to leave the house during the night dis-
guised as a girl and wearing a white man-
tilla. Il'e then arranges that the girl should
leave in this guise, and, of course, the girl
is shot by her new lover. Rushed through
in half an hour, as it would be without the
talkie accompaniment, the picture would be
accepted as a passable “Western” film. The
talking slows it down and drags its action
out to more than twice the necessary length.
As a story, it is starred with overheard
conversations and other lights of the in-
competent yarn-spinner. Quite half of it
exists only because the Fox people were
bent on mak-
in g a long
talkie, and so
there is a pro-
cession of in-
cid en t s in
which people
talk for the
mere sake of
be in g heard.
There is
plenty of very
enter taining
novelty, in -
eluding the
voice of bacon
and eggs fry-
ing in a pan;
hut the pic-
tu r e as a
whole is melo-
drama plus the
W e stinghouse
brake of in-
essential and,
in fact, redun-
dant gabble.
DOROTHY BURGESS, of
“In Old Arizona.”
The Main Event” (P.D.C.) is a good pug
story with an excellent punch. Vera
Reynolds provides all the realism that the
story needs as the sweetheart of a profes-
sional stousher who is challenged by a
university lad (Charles Delaney). Fearing
the outcome, the pro. induces the girl to
tak'' his challenger in tow when he comes up
to New York to train for the great event.
Lured by the charms of what is undoubtedly
an attractive bit of skirt, Charles transfers
his footwork to the ballroom floor and his
famous right to the girl’s back. On the eve
of the fight he finds himself in love but out
of form. Then he learns that the girl has
been kidding him on behalf of his opponent.
V oundcd pride makes up for loss of condition
(if Stadium connoisseurs have any complaints
about the above they are invited to address
them to the Sporting Editor) and, after
terrible punishment, he knocks his enemy
out in the fourth round and gains the girl
after the necessary explanations have been
made. A well-told story, and the fight scenes
are very tidily done.
The Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer movie “White
Shadows of the South Seas” fully explains
the good crowds it is drawing to Sydney
Prince Edward at the moment. It is easily
the best picture that house has had since
“Chang.” It has a theme in addition to a
plot, which is more than the average novel
has, and it preaches that theme in a
reasonably quiet manner. It is, of course,
news to nobody—the pollution of fine South
Sea Island races by contact with pearl-
chasing whites. The rebel, too, is familiar
enough-—an outcast white doctor, brought
down by drink. The villains get him off the
scene by turning him adrift in a plague-
infested sailing craft. He is wrecked in a
typhoon, cast ashore on an unknown island,
accepted (of course) as a god, and, aided
by his medical knowledge, has won a girl
for himself when his cupidity is improbably
stirred by pearls. He signals a passing ship
and then thinks better of it; but the signal
has been seen, his old enemies arrive and he
is shot. It is, however, neither theme nor
plot that makes the picture one in several
hundred. Its greatest merit is in the in-
cidental scenes depicting many phases of
native life. These, recorded with splendid
photography, are uncommonly convincing.
The typhoon scene in which the plague
craft is wrecked is about the least of them.
It adds excitement, but that is all. Monte
Blue, as the doctor, gives a faithful portrayal
of a conventional outcast.
It is seldom that anything that happens on
the screen can be compared to the outpourings
of a love-drunk poet in the throes of a
genuine inspiration, but “Someone to Love”
(Paramount), in its initial scenes, at any
rate, does rise _to those lyrical altitudes.
Charles “Buddy” Rogers is an assistant in
a music shop and Mary Brian is the daughter
of a millionaire, and they fall in love
at first sight, as people should do both
in real life and drama. They make their
feelings known to each other by the obvious
device of indicating the titles of popular song
hits. She conceals the fact of her parents’
deplorable wealth and they go into the woods,
where he builds her an imaginary time-pay-
ment bungalow. There is a passage here
which, mere photograph as it is, would
serve as an illustration to Meredith’s famous
chapter in “The Ordeal of Richard Feverill.”
To spin the story out, there is the usual
misunderstanding; then the film strays into
the realm of farce, where motor accidents and
things happen; but on the whole it supplies
a refreshing draught of comedy as well as
some charming acting. Mary Brian is a
delightful little person and her face is as
full of relevant expressions as the average
film star’s is of stereotyped grimaces.
The Palette
Since no politician can make a trumpery
speech and no foundation stone be laid any-
where without the event being called “memor-
able,” to use that word as descriptive of
such an etching as “The Black Silk Dress,”
by G. L. Brockluirst, now at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, is to be almost unfair
to the picture But it is memorable. A bust
of a woman with a Mona Lisa face —the hat
is large and the dress has full sleeves gathered
with lace at the wrists —it is a thing that
seems to fix itself indelibly in the memory.
There is nothing else equal to it, but if it
and the four or five next best were removed
the show would still hold plenty of high-
class work. Brockhurst’s style is curious—a
steel-engraving effect with wonderful freedom.
The least of his etchings lias decorative
quality; his design is masterly; his execution
is particular to the tiniest light on a finger-
nail, the finest pattern of lace, lie keeps
steadfastly above the commonplace; even his
sitters arc superior beings.
“0”: Herbert Cole, illustrator of Omar
and Suckling, and one of the late John
Lane’s band of artists, has made his home at
Manly. Cole’s delicate pen-line attracts
lovers of ex libris, some of whom recentb
had the joy of inspecting choice specimens
of his plates. Bulletin readers will re-
member his decoration of a Rod Quinn poem
in the 1924 Christmas number.
There is some warrant for the complaints
about omissions of uniform accessories from
the Mackennal fighting figures that have
been superimposed upon the Cenotaph in
Martin-place, Sydney. One indignant Digger,
with an acute memory and an eye for good
form in such matters that was not one of the
most noticeable virtues of members of the
A.I.F., found something like a dozen defects
of detail in the big soldier on the southern
end. But, after all, this sort of criticism is
unimportant. The Cenotaph, with these
figures, is much more a gift to to-morrow
than it is to to-day ; and to-morrow will not
care a bang how many microscopic mis-
statements of fact there rnay be. The figures
are really very well done. Both the soldier and
the sailor arc quite convincing, and that’s all
they need to be. The Cenotaph as it stood
before they arrived was also quite good.
Its lines were straight, clean and austere. But
the figures have been placed to jut up half
their own length above the top of the stone,
and the effect is very ragged. As they stand,
the figures do not seem to belong. The eye
wonders what on earth they are doing up
there. They are supposed to be on guard, and
as separate figures they are on guard; but
away up there they give the impression that
they have been sacrificed to give Sydney some
size for its money. With their heads about
level with the top of the masonry they would
not have been distinctive from a distance.
The Inky Way
John Dailey, of The Bulletin, has made
a hit in Britain with his latest novel. “Max
Flambard.” In a list of best sellers published
in John o’ London’s Weekly of Jan. 26,
“Max Flambard” is mentioned first.
“Copabella”: J. B. Dailey attached the
name Kingsville to the scene of small-town
snobocracy in “Max Flambard.” There is
a real Kingsville, a suburb of Footscray,
which is a suburb of Greater Melbourne witli
a population of nearly 50,000. The genuine
Kingsville boasts a notable public school
and a brass band in the A class. It has,
however, no snobs worth writing about; like
its parent Footscray and its sister Yarra-
ville, it is wholly “working.”
Baldy”; The Melbourne Hekald man-
agement delights in having specialists on
its staff. Irom Ponsford to a Rhodes
scholar, and from a V.C. to an ex-parson,
you will find them all over the office which
employs 1300 "V ictorians. The Answers-to-
Queries man was trying to dig up some
information about that one-time darling of
the gods Kyrle Bellew. “Surely someone
m the place knows something about him ”
he said after a search. Someone did. Kyrie
Bellew s son works on the premises.
« . No,” said the news-agent,
Adelaide people won t buy two papers as
people do m Melbourne and Sydney. One is
enough When the husband goes to work, he
takes the cable pages with him and leaves
the rest for his wife. He reads the news on
the car and brings the section back for the
missus to read in the evening. And does he
throw; the paper away then? Not he' He
puts it into the heater and has a warm* bath
and next morning he rakes the ashes out and
digs them into his garden. Adelaide people
don’t squander money.” 1 *
A COMPULSORY RHYME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dear reader, this is not a rhyme
Anent some faded flower
That resurrects some vanished time
With mem’ries sweet or sour.
’Tis just compulsion, grim and dour,
That puts me on the grid,
The grim insistence of the hour—
The need for half a quid.
And what to rhyme about I’m dashed
If I have an “idear,”
Somehow my fancy's works have crashed,
Or fallen out of gear;
And deep within me is a fear,
Slow-rising, that I’ll not
Be able to evolve a clear
Solution of my lot.
All subjects I have conned in vain
That custom doth allow,
From searing drought to pouring rain,
From shapely calf to cow.
To Muse on Muse I make my bow,
But inspiration's spurned.
It doesn’t matter, anyhow— ,
I guess the money’s earned!
N.S.W.
HOMFREY BEALE


• * 5
-C ' ' 5
fc\
Mg
/
S$
iVv
c
"A-v
per large tube
Managing Agents for Australia-—*
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
New Zealand Agents:—Van Staveren Bros., Ltd-, Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch.
A
new
m
Shaving"
Cream .
Made, by the Valet
nyppr people
With this new cream even the best
blade will shave still better. It is
copious in lather, pure in colour (as all
good creams should be) and leaves
the skin invigorated and refreshed.
Buy a tube now and learn the “clean
feeling of a perfect shave.”
Au&ottvop
Shaving Cneam
Of all dealers.
British made.
ONLY at Eton do we still behold the
full glories of the once übiquitous topper.
Times change—but not so human nature.
To-day, as of yore, men take trouble in buying a
new hat —be it a bowler, soft felt or the jaunty
snap-brim. For no man can look well dressed
in a shabby hat.
Buy a Battersby. It is a hat known all over the
world as standing for the best British make.
BRITISH
HATS
FOR MEN
Sold by the Best Hatters.
£?
Actual Makers: Battersby & Co., Ltd., Stockport
For further particulars, write —
SYDNEY: Box 1655JJ, G.P.O.
MELBOURNE: Box 364, G.P.O.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Box 763.
r>.
iSS
£
ic-0c
XX
P,
tv
X(s»
kX
f
c
«1
n
ii
Yr'
a
3%
3
Distinctive Decoration in the Home
There’s no need to have drab, dull walls now. The evolution in Wall-
papers during recent years makes it possible for the interiors of every
class of home to be cheerful, pleasing and inviting.
Artistic Wallpapers
are now a reality—and our Showrooms, both at Melbourne and Sydney,
contain wide ranges of designs more pleasing than ever. Every one
an Artistic Masterpiece—and all new and distinctive.
Rough Plasters, Rough Casts, Opalchromes, Polychromes with
Matched Borders, Backgrounds and Figured Effects.
Berger’s B.P. Paint
The Ideal Paint for all-round use on Inside or Outside Work—Easy
Working—Uniform in Color —Economical.
BERGER’S MATONE FLAT OIL PAINT
for Interior Walls and Ceilings. In pleasing Pastel Shades as well as
neutral and warmer tones. Matone may be washed with Soap and
Water, and combines to the greatest degree Beauty and Utility. Send
for Color Card and Prices.
White Lead, Zinc Oxide, Oils, Turps, Driers, Dry Colors,
Brushes and all Painters’ Requisites.
Q,
i~ri>
p*ll
JOHN
&SON
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
324-330 PITT ST REET, SYDNEY.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic P.isk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA'S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
MELLOWED BY AGE ALONE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney.
[2
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
ARE SURE KILLERS
Wholesale Representatives :
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY, LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE, Cl.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
In appearance there seemed nothing
wrong with Limerick when he was led round
before the Rawson Stakes at Itosehill on
Saturday, and he had been galloping well
enough for anything; but he failed again. He
has now been defeated in the three races he
has had since the A.J.C. Spring Stakes, in
which he dead-heated with Winalot; and
perhaps his strenuous struggle with the
Rossendale chestnut, following upon his ex-
hausting efforts in the Sydney Cup the
Metropolitan and the King’s Cup, gave him a
distaste for racing or affected him internally
in some way. Racehorses travei faster to-
day than the champions of a generation ago,
and probably they are not so tough a breed.
We have seen one race, the Melbourne Cup,
knock out Trivalve and Statesman. At all
events, Limerick was fairly and squarely
beaten at w.f.a. over a mile and a furlong,
not only by Winalot, but by Windbag’s
sister Loquacious. His price was 7 to 2 on ;
Winalot’s was 5 to 1. The other four
starters were at long odds.
Winalot has filled out since the spring and
now looks capable of handling the 9st. 81b.
he will have to carry in the Sydney Cup,
for which (Strephon having been withdrawn)
he has become a pronounced favorite. He
was ridden by Bartle, and the change of
jockeys apparently agreed with him. Loqua-
cious came home nicely only a length behind
the winner, who got in the last run (Limerick
was three parts of a length away and Gala-
deer, who had a 211 b. allowance, a close
fourth), and she will meet Winalot on 111 b.
better terms in the Sydney Cup, for which
she and Galadeer are also among the fancies.
The bookmakers, looking for a favorite for
the Doncaster Handicap after Mollison was
scratched, installed Sion in that position at
the customary false price. He was likewise
favorite for the Railway Handicap at Rose-
hill, but Cleave (8 to l),who is not in the Don-
caster, and who was of no use to Loquacious
in the Adrian Knox Stakes, ran right away
from him in the straight. Others the Wedge
filly beat were Habashon (5 to 1), John
Buchan, Wedding Eve, Aorangi, Rionscup
and Raasay, and this Page would not care
to back any of them for the Doncaster, unless
it were Aorangi in heavy going. Cleave is
not in the famous mile handicap—a rather
sad omission for the stable. On a track that
was pretty dead after nearly two inches of
rain, though it dried rapidly, she ran the
seven furlongs in lmin. 27see.
The A’ic. three-year-old Crowdel (he is by
Crowdennis —Delysia) came strongly into the
Doncaster market on the score of a striking
performance in the second division of the
Three- and Four-year-old Handicap, in
which, getting away badly, he ran from third
last to first in half a mile. However, the
runner-up Coercion (a 6-to-4 favorite,
Crowdel being at 9 to 4) is just ordinary,
nor are the others of much account. To this
scribe it seemed that Valley (8 to 1) did just
as good a Doncaster trial in the first divi-
sion, in which she put up the same time —
lmin. 27soc. —and cleared right away from
a field which included rather smart horses
like Margarethal, Lady Canberra and Radi-
ant Orb. And Valley is aristocratically bred,
being by Valais —Beanbri. Yet this four-
year-old mare of L. C. and 11. White’s is
one of the outsiders for the Doncaster, where-
as the three-year-old gelding from Melbourne
is one of the favorites.
Lord Kennaquhair did not please his party
in the Autumn Handicap, for which he was
BOTH WAYS.
“Want to bach him both ways, Missus?”
“Both ways? Oh. dear! I didn’t know they had to race there and back"
backed down to 5 to 2, though he by no
means disgraced himself. When he ran
past the pace-making Crucis (5 to 1) at
the entrance to the straight he looked like
coming on; but he didn’t, and Amusement
(4 to 1) ran past him. Then, when Amuse-
ment seemed to have the race won, Lovebox
(8 to 1) finished with the short sharp run
for which she is noted (Bartle kept her for
it on this occasion), and got up in time to
dead-heat with Amusement, who had figured
in a dead-heat with Baverwrack at Rosehili
the previous Saturday. Amusement, on
whom McCarten perhaps took things rather
easily, looks like being very hard to beat .in
the Sydney Cup, but this Page won’t dis-
card Lord Kennaquhair, who finished third,
until it sees how he shapes at Warwick
Farm. As Bartle rode Valley in addition
to Winalot and Lovebox, he had a very good
day.
Weather fine and going good, the A.J.C.
will serve up some very attractive racing
at Warwick Farm on Saturday, Gothic,
Winalot, Limerick, Jocelyn, Strephon, Mol-
lison, Loquacious and others are in the Chip-
ping Norton Stakes. They won’t all stare,
but there ought to be enough of them to
furnish a thrilling contest. Then the Liver-
pool Handicap and the Autumn Cup should
be valuable as guides to the Doncaster Han-
dicap and the Sydney Cup. Fancies: —
Farm Stakes: Sir Tarsia; next, Lord
Romeo.
Liverpool Handicap: Karuma; next,
Galley or Margarethal.
Fairfield Handicap: Pentheus.
Chipping Norton Stakes: Mollison, 1;
Gothic, 2; Winalot, 3.
Autumn Cup: Lord Kennaquhair; next,
Amusement.
Parramatta Handicap : Baverwrack; next,
Valley or Rosso.
* * * *
Those backers for whom form is the all-
in-all crashed at Caulfield on Saturday, for
every favorite was beaten and three of the
winners were outsiders. North Star’s defeat
in the two-year-old race was a severe blow,
for the Great Star filly went out at odds on,
but the public suffered its worst facer in
the St. Ivilda Handicap, for which the Syd-
ney gelding Octember, so unlucky at Fieming-
ton, Was a solid favorite at fours, Balmerino,
Finsbury and Allecret being quoted at sixes.
This race provided a thrilling finish. Cim-
brian and Finsbury made most of the pace,
and Heroic’s half-brother led into the
straight. Octember took charge near the dis-
tance, but Glcamlight (15 to 1) tackled him
and snatched victory by half a head. Lalique,
who ran a good race, was third, but Bal-
merino did not shape like a prospective Syd-
ney Cup winner. One of Scobie’s string,
Gleamlight is a four-year-old brown gelding
by Comedy King—After Glow, and thus a
brother to Epilogue. His form at Fleming-
ton the previous Saturday was not impres-
sive, but he finished really well on this
occasion, and, like many of his breed, is
evidently improving with age. The time was
2mm. 00 2 sec.
Punters went for a recovery on St. Ardent
(5 to 4) in the South Yarra Handicap, but
he is evidently no weight-carrier. Not so
quick off the mark as usual, the Newmarket
winner was rushed through the field and led
for a time; but he stopped suddenly and
failed to get a place. Greensborough (5 to
1) brilliantly drew away from the field and
won by lengths from Attraction (9 to 2)
and.,. in . 12fsec.
Tich Wilson rode the slick Greenstead—
Cygnea gelding,
The Übique Welter proved a good thing
for imported Parsee (6 to 1), who gave no
trouble at the barrier on this occasion. It
was a spirited betting race, and a good one
for McShortodds.
“Bouncer” : The extent to whfeh the broad-
casting of race results has affected course
attendances has been engaging the attention
of racing clubs for some time past. One and
all are now convinced that while the system
is a godsend to the s.p. bookmaker it is no
good to the racing club. As an, experiment
broadcasting was prohibited in Brisbane at
both the Ascot and Albion Park courses.
The increase in attendances was marked,
while the tote investments at Ascot jumped
to more than £4OOO over the takings on the
corresponding day last year. As far as
Brisbane is concerned there will be no more
broadcasting from the course, and the example
is likely to be followed in other States.
The trouble, will always be the individual
with a good private pitch outside the course,
such as Randwick affords, who can watch
the racing and transmit the news to the out-
side world.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
A crowd of 12,000 or so packed Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night to see the spcond
clash between Fidel la Barba and S’African
Willie Smith. Much diversity of opinion
existed concerning the result of their first
fight, and many thought Smith would reverse
the verdict on this occasion. The little
Yankee fighting machine, however, won in
most convincing fashion, outing Smith in
the twelfth round; the deciding punch was
a lightning left hook to the stomach, follow-
ing a right smash to the jaw. There was not
a great deal between them up to the end
of the sixth round, although Smith’s left eye
was opened in the; second. From then on
La Barba belted his man all over the ring,
and it spoke volumes for Smith’s pluck and
coolness that the end did not come sooner,
lie was saved by the bell in the seventh
round, and again in the eleventh. La Barba
relied chiefly on his famous left double to
body and face, and while Smith occasionally
halted him with a still’ straight left to the
face and made him miss badly at times by
clever ducking, the Afrikander’s punches, as
a rule, lacked sting. La Barba is essentially
a left-hand puncher, and some of his right
swings to the body looked very amateurish.
Smith scaled Bst. lOflb.; La Barba, Bst.
9Jlb.
* * * *
. Welshman Jacky Jones (9st. 71b.), who
fought with moderate success in this coun-
try a few years back, and Billy Negus (9st.
91b.) headed a poor programme at Melbourne
Stadium on Saturday night. Billy boxed on
safety-first lines, but they availed him little.
A consistent body attack wore him down,
and, to the relief of the small crowd, Quirk
stopped it in the eighth round, declaring for
the Leeklander.
The Ins and Outs
The final Test of the 1928-29 series ended
in a five-wickets win for Australia at Mel-
bourne Cricket Ground on the eighth day, and
it is not too much to say that the whole coun-
try sighed with relief to think that the ob-
session was ended at last. The victory
blocked the long-standing ambition of the
visitors to win all the Test matches, a
thing no English team has yet succeeded
in doing. * Set 519 to get, thanks to atro-
cious catching, Australia batted doggedly
until the innings closed at 491. Woodfull
opened with a characteristic 102, and the
total was helped along by Bradman, who
again came to light with a three-figure score,
his 123'being made in more leisurely fashion
than usual. Fairfax helped him with a quiet
65, while Jackson (run out at 30) Kippax
(38) and Kyder (30) ’ assisted to raise the
total. A last-wicket stand by Grimmett (38
n. 0.) and Hornibrook (26) gave the English-
men a lot of trouble. Geary bowled finely,
to take 5 for 105. The wicket, in spite of
some rain, was not appreciably affected. The
South Australian, Wall, who had bowled
so well in the first knock, was the hero of
the Englishmen’s second innings, taking 5
for 66. Jardine left early, caught by
Oldfield, and the side went to -pieces
for 257. But for a rare bit of plucky
hitting by Tate (54) and a lucky stand
for 53 n.o. by Leyland, Hobbs’s opening
tally of 65, compiled in faultless fashion,
would have been the only score worth noting.
Hammond failed, as in the first innings. Aus-
tralia’s second essay was remarkable for the
determined stand of Oldfield (48) and Horni-
brook (18), who were sent in late the pre-
vious evening. They batted like tradesmen
until the lunch interval, when the regular
batsmen of the side took up the task and,
going carefully, knocked off the required runs.
Ryder (52) and Bradman (37) were the not-
out men. Hammond was the most success-
ful bowler, his 3 wickets costing 53 runs.
Larwood was innocuous throughout the
match, as was White. Tate bowled finely,
but had little luck.
* * * *
“In Swing” : A Queensland country bowler
named Hankinson recently covered himself
with glory by taking six wickets with six
consecutive balls in a match which yielded
him 14 wickets. The only similar feat re-
corded was done by John Wisden in 1859.
(Continued on page \l.)
THE MUG PUNTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“He was what is known as a ‘mug punter’—-a
man who backs a horse because he likes the name.”
Witness in the Goddard case ( London ).
Brother punter, can you place him?
In a mirror do you face him
Whensoe’er the razor traverses your chin;
Him whose mission, all unknowing,
Is to keep the race clubs going
And the money rolling regularly in?
Some there are make form their study
When they’re picking out a cuddy,
Or rely on tipsters practised at the game;
But disdaining all and any
Methods such as these, how many
Back a gee-gee just because they like the
name!
Bookie, do you often view him?
Ever feel indebted to him
For the more substantial portion of the wads
Wherewithal your bags are bulging,
When in dinner you’re indulging
After glorious crowded hours of laying odds?
When you’re through with your undressing
Do you ask a special blessing,
As your usual nightly orisons you frame,
On your estimable clients
Who observe no punting science
Save to back a horse of which they like the
name?
It’s a curious obsession
Finding regular expression
Among those who take no stock in age or
weight.
And I sometimes thinlr the sequel
Might be slightly less unequal
If the Ring were willing to reciprocate.
But you hear no odds grow longer
Or hoarse voices rising stronger
As readiness to lay them they proclaim,
Even though their bags they jeopard—
Never see a prad being peppered
Because Ikey Moses doesn’t like the name.
O you anti-gambling wowsers,
Girt with skirts or tubed with trousers,
Would you hit the turf a wallop? Here’s a
means.
How if ev’ry racehorse stabled
Were no longer named but labelled
In the fashion that applies to submarines,
Christened simply with a letter
And a number, so the bettor
Wouldn’t have nomenclatural tastes to
blame ?
Could McShortodds earn his tucker
And his tiddleys sans the sucker
Who backs a horse because he likes the
name?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Drive on PI ume
the appoteni
and enjoij th
‘Motor Spirit
benefits of
COMPRESSION
conibuS’
*°rre‘ lhe us‘
"of.i Z.r Spin'
f l-T labile.
acktnS* c l>e»ncal
fcf 0, ‘ ‘occurs in'be
»• rrursint' ie
,nge °£ irlfW"
urge sfl ° n f i£nf
•*"%£ rif
K^Hl’SSw
ahtheUW. „
OHS' 11 / rausMS
,/»< kno c b' ng
3 pTume°.V>e
° thish ternper .
P lume ' d ?«l n h>e* co */ s r teaJ-
;ls“rsSs»
jiss-k
£">•■3. 2"bS
bu ? u ud%»‘ r
fTsed.
’"fTo'r n <‘« dib,e ?of bi “
fiSSjtf? »"■“
ear j nf njw^*
**From the Latin: ad (ap), meaning
added to; and potens, meaning powerful,
appotenic possessing increased power;
said of a gas that, being stable to heat and
high compression, will therefore neither
audibly nor silently “knock" in a high
compression engine.
HIGH compression means greater propulsive
power provided only that ignition and com*
bustion of the charge take place correctly.
The efficiency of some motor spirits is reduced
through their inability to resist the disruptive
influences of the terrilic heat developed by high
compression.
These influences cause motor spirits unstable to
heat to spontaneously ignite in uncontrolled
combustion: (See the smaller illustration.)
Violent expansion follows, springing the cyl-
inder walls, and causing that high-pitched
“ping” known to motorists as fuel knock,
with consequent loss of power.
Both you and your car will get the full bene-
fit ofhigh compression if you drive on Plume
the appotenic Motor Spirit. The appotenic
quality powerfully resists the action of heat,
and works in perfect power-partnership
with high compression engines. (See cor-
rect combustion illustration.)
High compression and appotenic Plume
mean more power, greater flexibility , less
gear-changing , fasteracceleration, and less-
ened depreciation because of a gratifying
absence of knocking.
Here’s the surge of power that you
should have for motoring
conditions. A tank full will prove,
every claim.
HIGH
\
COMPRESSIONS \
POWER-i I
appoteiic
PARTNER /'
A
&
*
5?S*
ptUM|
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
4L
y
w/
vt*.


&
AC/
4**
c^
0°
<V
&
Telegraphic, Cable and Wireless A'ddress
“Austraotel, Sydney.”
Never take it for granted
that “The Australia” is
full, or listen to* people
who say “it’s no use apply-
ing—they’re sure to be
booked-up.”
On the contrary, our accommodation
is equal to practically all demands
placed upon it. Should we be fully
booked when you apply, we will
gladly arrange the next best avail-
able accommodation.
The Ins and Outs
The last Test at Melbourne was memorable
for many things, but for none more so than
the dramatic exit of J. B. Hobbs from the
field of Test cricket which he has adorned
so long and ably. The Surrey veteran —he
is now 47 —may still figure in the big games
in England, though he doubts this himself,
but Australia will see him no more, save,
perhaps, as a visitor. Characteristically, lie
made his exit in a blaze of glory, his double
of 142 and 65 being a fitting finish to an
extraordinary record of performance in the
Tests. The Melbourne century was his
twelfth in the big stuff, double the tally
of his nearest rival, Sutcliffe. He had 63
innings in which to compile them, more than
any other English batsman save Wilfrid
Rhodes.
* * * *
“C. Bump”: Is 13 an unlucky number?
Leyland, the English team’s 13th man, had
his first chance in the last Test. He went
in when the score was five wickets for 260,
which is 20 times 13. He was missed when
he had made 13 and he survived to be the
13th man to make a century in his first
Test. Even the fact that he had been robbed
of £6O and a gold watch just before he
started his innings does not spoil the record.
As soon as local Yorksbiremen heard of his
misfortune they started a subscription to
repair the damage. It didn’t stop at £l3,
however.
* * * *
“Magpie”: When he knocked up 30 in
the first innings of the last Test, Jack Ryder,
skipper of Australia and King of Colling-
wood, became the 13th Australian to score
1000 runs in Tests. The biggest total of
the lot is Clem Hill’s 2660, but Clem had
76 innings to do the trick in, as against
Ryder’s 26. In the same innings Don Brad-
man sent the Australian record for a first-
class season flying when he notched 123.
This brought his total to 1639, or 105 better
than Afrikander Faulkner’s record, which
lias stood since 1912. On top of that, the
score was his seventh century, a feat no other
Australian has equalled in his homeland.
* * * *
“Lansdowne”: Natural enough that Taun-
ton should have determined on a civic re-
ception to J. C. White. Apart from his
individual successes in Australia, White is
the first Somerset man who has ever led
England in the cricket field. In fact, I don’t
recall any other player from the cider county
who ever came to Australia except Len
Braund —who was really a Surrey man—
and O. G. Radcliffe, in the early ’nineties,
after “W.G.” had induced him to qualify
to. Gloucestershire. The famous Lionel Pal-
airei. of caurse. played for England at
Manchester in ’O2, and Somerset secured in
S. M. J. Woods an Australian whose ser-
vices had been requisitioned against Eng-
land in ’BB. But White is entirely and abso-
lutely Somerset’s. Il'e comes from Stogumber.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Already there are indi-
cations that the huge gates during the Eng-
lish tour have set the local players licking
their lips. An inspired statement plaintively
pointed out that the unfortunate wage plugs
upholding Australia’s honor were paid a
wretched £3O per match, plus 30s. per day
and travelling exes. Taking the average
duration of the Testsi at five days
this works out at £7 10s. a day, or £45 a
working week of six days—the travelling item
is left out. This is stiff, and no wonder a
sympathising press is calling on the board to
have a heart and supplement the dole with
a bonus.
* * * *
“Lancaster Park” : It was stated in Maori-
land the other day that both Maurice Tate
and H’endren had been asked to accept coach-
ing engagements in the Shivery Isles and
had accepted. The engagement would be for
the English winter only, the players returning
for the Old Country cricket season, as
Bowley and several other English profes-
sionals have been doing for some years. Tire
Hendren part of the story doesn’t ring true.
Patsy was under engagement to South Aus-
tralia to return after this tour, but it was
announced that he made arrangements with
Middlesex which would in future obviate his
taking any oversea coaching billets at all. It
is doubtful, too, if Sussex would regard with
complacency the prospect of its star bowler
playing all the year round.
Racquet and Bawl
“Glenelg”: South Australian tennis
players, who do not get much of a chance
to cut a dash in the uppah circles of the
game, gave a strong Victorian side a hand-
some drubbing in Adelaide the other day,
wanning the men’s matches by 14 rubbers
to 7 and the women’s by 8 to 4 G. M.
Hone and D. P. Turnbull went through
unbeaten, while Miss le Mesurier did great
work among the girls.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: According to a recent decision
of the N.S.W. tennis heads, professional
players may become members of clubs, and
may play w’itli members save in matches
and tournaments. In supporting the resolu-
tion, J. Wilkie made a significant remark.
He said there were a number of mep in Syd-
ney who should be declared professionals,
and that the new ruling would not encourage
professionalism, but encourage the clubs to
control the professionals. One doubts it.
If a club has a good gate-drawing pseudo-
amateur as a member, it is not likely to do
anything to hurt his feelings and send him
snorting to a rival organisation.
♦ * * £
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Whatever its capa-
city for drawing crowds, the N.S.W. Tennis
Association can always stage an argument
at a moment’s notice. Last week’s was
started by a resolution passed by the Coun-
cil requesting one of its members, who does
a bit of writing for newspapers, to
show cause why lie shouldn’t be asked to
resign, because of some of his literary effu-
sions. After some vitriolic persiflage, the
individual most concerned remarked that the
Council was wasting time, since be had no
intention of resigning and they couldn’t
make him. There the matter stands for the
present. The tomahawks are being sharpened
for the next round.
Footbrawl
“Hotham”: Melbourne will soon be in the
thick of the football season, which opens
officially in April. This year the League pro-
mises to dominate the situation more than
ever, since the bites it has taken out of its
dear enemy, the Association, during last
season and since have reduced the latter to
minor importance. Several Victorian teams
are to visit Sydney in an effort to buck up
the game in the Ma State, while visits are to
be paid to Adelaide and Westralia. Nothing
final lias been done in regard to the League’s
demand for a larger cut of the end-of-the-
season takings from the Melbourne C.G., but
the probability is the ground trustees will
yield to the pressure—there’s a pot of profit
in the semi-finals and finals.
THE RULING PASSION.
UMPIRE (a retired pugilist) : “If y’re not up when I count ten y’re out.”
“Old Q.” : The feud between the Brisbane
Rugby League and the body which controls
the game throughout the State as well as it
can has ended in the resolve of the State
organisation to abolish the metropolitan
push. The threatened ones have retaliated
that the move is unconstitutional, so
the High Court may yet have to adjudi-
cate. The proposed change would benefit the
Queensland body, which is not a wealthy
one, as such shows go. The Brisbaneites,
however, with the metropolitan grounds and
the big crowds, command some very pretty
pickings.
* * * *
“Gate”: The N.S.W. Rugby League’s pro-
fits for last season were a trifle over £4OOO,
and this in spite of the visit of the English
professionals and the consequent huge gates.
Only a few seasons ago the annual figure was
rated round about £7OOO, and in the boom
years just after the war, when the League
had things all its own way, it was even
higher than that. However, assets are stated
to exceed liabilities by nearly £17,000, which
is pretty good for an organisation which pro-
fesses to pay out most of its funds to the
deserving players who earn it. There does
not seem to be any indication of the game
spreading either in Queensland or N.S.W.,
while the attempt to gain a foothold in Vic-
toria ended in ignominious retreat. In
Queensland, the Brisbane Rugby League,
which has the advantage of games with other
leading centres on the metropolitan grounds,
reports a falling off in revenue of nearly
£9OO for the last season.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: A feature of the football
situation is the rapid spread of the amateur
Rugby Union game throughout Australia
during the past two years. In N.S.W., where
the code has been firmly re-established against
the professional League for some years, the
spread is very noticeable, the increase in
country and city organisations being 50 p.c.
on last season. Six country players gained
State representation, a record which even
the widespread League could not surpass.
In Queensland the Rugby Union, reformed
last season after the lapse of 11 years, will
this year begin its grade competitions, six
first- and reserve-grade clubs having been
formed, while the G.l’.S. have returned in
a body. Nothing marks the success of the
Union more than the ferocity of the attacks
launched by an inspired section of the N.S.W.
press, following on the practice of a few
years ago. On that occasion the propaganda
turned many away from the League in dis-
gust, and the drift has been steadily aug-
mented ever since.
The Nineteenth Hole
“The McMugg” : Josiah Crane, the. emin-
ent authority on golf-courses, has laid it
down in a recent publication that “the
ideal hole is one combining controlled shots
with fairness and presenting a problem at
every shot, with delight in natural sur-
roundings.” I differ from my learned brother.
The ideal hole to the writer, and countless
thousands of others like him, is one that,
when he is trying a 15ft. putt, will crawl
out of itself, so to speak, and, reaching out
a prehensile neck, seize the ball in its mouth
and crawl back again with it. Alas! it is
an ideal that will never be realised, even
by the ingenious American.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: If the local press is to be
believed, Queensland golfers, well accustomed
to being left out in the cold in the past,
are standing on their dignity and sitting on
their cheque-books in the matter of con-
tributing towards the expenses of the British
golf team which is to visit Australia dur-
ing the coming season. They have been
invited to throw in to the general hat and
have replied that, unless Queensland is guar-
anteed a visit from the tourists, there will not
be a darned bean forthcoming from north
of the Tweed. I am afraid my old cobbers
are still in the ingenue stage. They ought
to know by now that, where golf, cricket,
tennis or any other sport of like calibre is
concerned, the interests of N.S.W. and Vic-
toria are paramount. Cinderellas like Queens-
land and South Australia may proffer their
share of costs —these are always graciously
accepted. When it comes to getting a whack
of what they have helped to pay for —why,
dear me, that is in a different category
altogether.
* * * *
“The McHaggis”: The dangers that lie in
wait in the rules of golf for the unwitting
were vividly depicted in a minor tragedy at
Moore Park (N.S.W.) the other day. An
unfortunate fellow picked up a “loose im-
pediment,” and in doing so allowed his finger
to touch the ground. Probably more pre-
cedents have been laid dow : n in connection
with the rule governing the case (28) than
were ever quoted by Shirley, and the list
of definitions of “loose impediment” alone
would fill a copy of The Bulletin. There,
are many exceptions also. The trouble in
the case in question was that the criminal
“scraped” the loose impediment away, a
thing forbidden under penalty of boiling oil
unless the impediment is a wormcast, ice,
snow or dung. Even then the club must
not press more than its own weight on the
ground. Only recently an English offender
was sent to bis doom for flicking away with
his finger some sheep droppings. It was held
that “flicking” was not “lifting” as by law
demanded, and judgment was cast accord-
ingly.
* * * *
“Admiral Blowmetight” : Coming home from
a bad round the other day I discovered, after
kicking the cat out of the road on my way
to the tantalus, that the evening paper had
been specially folded into a column entitled
“Can a Golfer Be a Gentleman?” The wife,
of course, had escaped somewhere, so there
was nothing to do but read what was in-
tended for a veiled insult. Considering the
matter, I am forced to the conclusion that
a good deal depends- on the definition of the
word gentleman. Surtees has given us one
which sums up the nebulous personality as
one who “keeps a bottle of port and a box
of cigars on the chest of drawers in his bed-
room.” Others have claimed that he should
personify Abe Lincoln’s famous phrase,
“With charity for all and with malice to-
ward none.” My own conclusion, as a life-
long golfer, is that it is quite possible for
a golfer to be one of those persons who are
understood to prefer blondes—if he refrains
from playing golf.
* * * *
“Iverys”: On a Sydney golf-course the
other morning, just as a citizen of great
social and physical tonnage was about to
play, there appeared a damsel of about 12,
carrying an infant and escorting two toddlers
across the fairway. Their pace was easy and
unhurried. At the citizen’s request to
speed up the damsel stopped. “If you ’ad
any sense,” she said witheringly, “you’d
know these kids can’t hurry more’n they
are. ’Oo are yer, anyway? One o’ them as
thinks they ’ave a right ter ’it balls all
over the world, I s’pose.” The local mag-
nate became engrossed in the scenery, but
the young woman had not done. “Yer great
fat lump,” she concluded, “why don't yer go
’ome an’ do somethink useful!”
* * * *
“Bumble”: The row between the Sydney
Civic Commission and the golfers and near-
golfers who use the. municipal links at
Moore Park has been squelched in a sort
of compromise. The Commissioners claim
to have justified their raising of the fee
for a round from Is. to Is. 6d. by a 25 p.c.
increase in revenue, while the players have
had control of the course shifted from the
Town Clerk’s department to that of the City
Surveyor, a change they have been seeking
for some time. The course is a very expen-
sive one to maintain —the wages bill alone
comes to nearly £3500 p.a.—for the fearful
congestion that is its most marked feature
plays the dickens with greens and fairways.
That trouble will increase as long as Syd-
ney remains about the only one of the
world’s principal cities that provides a
solitary public course for its thousands of
unattached golfers.
* * * *
“Hotham”: When the very swish Royal
Melbourne G.C. resolved to put up a
new club-house at a cost of £60,000,
there was no opposition. There are
many of Caledonian extraction, however,
among Melbourne’s elite, and after thinking
it over a number of members resolved to
have the matter discussed before a general
meeting. It was pointed out that the sum
mentioned was really a generous estimate,
including as it did the cost of professionals,
shops, garages, etc., but there was strong
opposition, and finally it was resolved to
cut down the expenditure to a beggarly
£40,000. That being done, the victorious
section of the meeting, remarking “Hmphm”
to itself in the Scottish language, went home
rejoicing.
{Continued, on next page.) .


Winchester Rifle, Model 56.
22-Cal. Long Rifle only
Handles well
and
Shoots well.
ertrety
Write for Catalogue B.
The Rifle
for Small Game
Price, £5. Post free to all parts of
Australia.
The Gun House,
COWLES (SL DUNN,
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Chains--Chains--Chains- Chains
ertrety
Australian-made —better than Imported
Support Your Secondary Industries
Non-skid, hand-forged chains for a Ford to a
7-ton truck.
Chains for Collieries.
Chains for Brickyards.
Pit-cage chains.
Lashing chains.
Messenger and Steering-wheel chains.
Sling, Snigging, Plough and leading chains.
Roller and Conveyor chains of all descriptions.
Mooring and Ships’ Cable chains.
Made from best Staffordshire iron.
The only complete chain works in the Common
wealth.
All chains tested to Lloyd’s standard and
certificates issued,
BLOOMERS CHAINS, LTD.,
BRISBANE.
ertrety
Car and Cycle
“0.H.Y.”: That Major Segrave should beat
Ray Iveech’s motor speed record was not
unexpected, but few anticipated that it would
be broken so decisively. Segrave lias added
23.81 m.p.h. to the tally, and has reduced
Iveecli’s time for the mile (17g.sec.) to 15 J
sec., a very substantial lop. The progress
made up to the time of the American’s suc-
cess suggested that the limits of mechanical
possibility had very nearly been reached —
Segrave, 203.84 m.p.h.; Campbell, 206.95
m.p.h.; Keech, 207.55 m.p.h. But now
Segrave takes command again with 231.36
m.p.h. and talks of bettering 240. The latest
record was made under difficulties, as a
water-tap broke and clouds of steam obscured
the driver’s vision during the first run, and
on the second (the mean time of two runs
is taken) the cooling system had to be
augmented by an emergency ice-box. Segrave
has a lot to thank Providence for, as the
slightest tremor of the steering wheel while
the steam blinded him would have sent him
flying either into the crowd that lined the
beach or into the sea, with certain death
on either hand.
4: 4= 4: 4"
“Streamline”: In an attempt to improve
on Segrave’s achievement, Lee Bible crashed
in the “Triplex Special,” driver and a
cameraman being killed outright. The car
was wrecked. It was the heaviest racing-car
ever built, weighing 3 tons 11J cwt. When
it broke Campbell’s record by attaining a
speed of 207 J miles per hour, driven by Ray
Keech, its body was a mere half-shell,
covering only the front motor and the
driver. The two rear motors and the petrol-
tank had -no covering. The car was a
weird-looking affair with six wheels, the
chassis being hinged between the two rear
pairs of wheels so that the petrol tank,
carried on the hindmost axle, was free to
waggle up and down on its own. The wheels
were gigantic, 47in. in diameter, shod with
Bin. tyres, and each of the three 12-cyl.
Liberty aero-motors was designed to develop
500 hip. at top speed. A streamline body
was fitted, completely enclosing the chassis.
4: 4= 4: 4=
“Velox” : The success of Major Segrave’s
attack on the world’s motor speed record has
set a good many interested folk asking what
the best Australasian figures stand at. The
first of these was put up in 1925 by O. J.
Harkness on Gerringong Beach (N.S.W.).
Driving a Minerva chassis fitted with a
Ilispano Suiza aeroplane engine rated at
250 h.p., he covered the straight mile in 33
3-ssec., or a rate of 107.14 m.p.h. This stood
until a year ago, when C. W. Hamilton,
driving a Sunbeam at Invercargill (M.L.),
was timed over the mile at 32 4-ssec., or
109.8 m.p.h. Neither of these cars can be
rated as a special speedster like the elaborate
and costly machines designed solely for the
single occasion at Daytona Beach.
4= 4= 4= 4:
“Formula”: The series of inter-State re-
liability trials arranged by the Vic. and
N.S.W. Automobile Clubs ended last week
with the 24 hours’ trial of the N.S.W. body
over the run from Melbourne to Sydney.
Competitors drove to a schedule giving them
21 hours’ driving time for the 565 miles,
allowances being made for stops for replenish-
ments and meals. All the eight starters
reached the final control within the time
allotted. The cars ranged from a little 832
c.c. Triumph to a 4493 c.c. Buick.
4= * 4= 4=
“Thames” : Maoriland’s big annual motor-
racing event, the Australasian beach ,cham-
pionship at Muriwai, was won for the fourth
year in succession by R. B. Wilson, of
Auckland, who drove the same Stutz car
on each occasion. The race was this time
cut down from 50 to 25 miles and was run
over a shorter course, which meant an in-
creased number of turns. A. Roycroft,
another Aucklander, was second in a Bugatti,
and C. East, of Sydney, a familiar figure at
this meeting, was third, also with a Bugatti.
The winner’s time was 25min. 25sec. —not so
dusty, considering it wasn’t a straight run.
Hope Bartlett, another Australian competi-
tor, could not get his Bugatti into a place,
and East was similarly unsuccessful in the
N.Z. Handicap, which followed and was won
by G. Smith, also an Aucklander, who had
two minutes’ start in his Buick car.
4: 4: 4= *
“Chevroford”: There is a pathetic story
behind the death in poverty, at 74, of David
Buick, in Detroit (U.S.A.). Buick was a
prosperous manufacturer of push-bikes and
other primitive forms of conveyance when,
in 1900, his brain was fired with the idea
of motor traction. He backed his belief for
£20,000 and eventually evolved a horseless
carriage which grunted its way from Detroit
to Flint, some 70 miles. Within a few years
he was making several hundred p.a., but,
like most innovators, he had been born be-
fore his time, and the company was nearly
on the rocks when William Durant stepped
in. The Buick company grew into General
Motors and Durant became a millionaire.
Almost the only thing Buick left was his
name attached to a popular make of car.
“Whizz”: For some time the International
Sporting Commission, which controls motor
racing in Europe and America, has been im-
posing restrictions making for the safety of
competitors. The Grand Prix races were
limited to cars with « piston displacement of
not more than 1500 c.c., and a minimum
weight without the • driver was fixed. This
year the Commission has decided that
the cars are still too fast for safety, and
has limited the amount of fuel and lubri-
cant allowable for every 100 kilometres. This
will be 301 b. of petrol and oil, with petrol
density fixed at .72 at 15 deg. centigrade.
Car weight is not to be less than 17cwt.
801 b. empty, with a spare wheel aud a two-
seater streamlined body. No mechanic is to
be carried. The Americans have been
exempted for this year and their big Indian-
apolis 500 miles event for 1500 c.c. cars will
be run under last season’s rules.
Miscellaneous
“Blade”: Mosman R.C., chosen to repre-
sent N.S.W. in the King’s Cup at Perth,
lias been playing up again, as it did last
year when its entire crew was not chosen
for the event. This time it wanted a decision
given against it at a recent regatta, by
which it lost points, to be cancelled. Also
it demanded to be allowed to compete at
the Riverview (N.S.W.) regatta on March
23, though the Association rules forbid a
King’s Cup crew to race in open events within
six weeks of the big affair. After a meeting
in which the language sometimes rose to
Macquarie-street heights, the Association
made it 50-50, saying that the decision would
not be reviewed, but that the club might
row at Riverview, a hare six weeks inter-
vening between that and the Perth event.
Mosman might now consider the matter of
concentrating on winning the Cup, and cease
trailing its blazer.
4< * 4= 4"
“Shrewsbury”: The crews for the Oxford-
Cambridge boatrace on the Thames on March
23 have been finally chosen, and the ex-
clusion of the ex-Sydney Uni. blue, Mc-
Culloch, will come as a disappointment to
N.S.W. oarsmen. Tlio Australians in the
Dark Blue bo£* t ' are the Tasmanian, Ingles,
who will row 0, and Morphett, of Geelong,
shifted from bow to 5. Oxford averages P 2.4,
and Cambridge 12.10. Though this is the
centenary year of the big event, only 80
races have been rowed; the score to date is
40 wins for Oxford and 39 by the Cantabs.
Ht 4= 4t 4=
Captain W. N. Masefield, of Blenheim,
winner of the M.L. King’s prize at Welling-
ton the other day, is one of the world’s lead-
ing rifle shots, with a reputation established
in Britain, Canada and Australia. This is
his second win. He tied with F H. James,
of Napier, and 11. Balliger, of Petone, with
46 each at the 900 yards. A five-round shoot-
off was necessary, and Masefield got home by
a point, with 23 for his five shots.
4! 4! 4! 4*
“Third Base”: The Australian Baseball
Council has announced that not only will
there be no doubt about a visit from an
American team next season, but there will
J. B. HOBBS, one of the greatest batsmen
in cricket history, who made what was
probably his final Test match appear-
ance in Melbourne last week.
be some difficulty in picking the right pea
from the numerous candidates for the trip.
Stanford University players gave Australia
such a good advertisement on their return
last year that half a dozen other Univer-
sity clubs are on the job, one of them being
so keen as to offer to pay “preliminary ex-
penses,” which presumably include trans-
port to Australia. Nothing more seems to
have been done about the American coach
whom the Council has been proposing to
import. Such a visitor would be an expensive
proposition, since only a high-class man
would be worth engaging, and Australian
baseball is not overburdened with funds.
4= * 4: 4=
“Backwoodsman”: Bowls is supposed by
the vulgar to be only a short head in front
of croquet for general innocuousness. In
reality it conceals a remarkable tendency
to ferocity beneath its smooth and appar-
ently harmless exterior. The savage dissen-
sion over the standard bowl has been a
notable instance, and now another has
cropped up over some questions of dignity
and precedence when the recent Australian
team was in Maoriland. The trouble arose
over a high official dispensing with the ser-
FIDEL LA BARBA, the American boxer,
whose recent appearances in Australia
have done much to revive the waning
interest in pugilism.
vices of a selection committee, and insisting
on picking the teams himself. Discipline in
the face of the enemy prevented those in
disagreement from poisoning his grog or
taking the other relief measures customary
in such cases, but on the team’s return to
Australia another high potentate of bowls
at once resigned in protest. Bolshevism is in
the air, and no man knows what is coming
next.
4: 4: 4= 4=
“Ride Off”: The combined Australia-
Hawaii polo team, mounted on Australian
ponies, lias made a very good showing on
its tour of California, where very fine polo
is played. Skene and Pearson, the Australian
members of the contingent, have come in
for a lot of adulation, both as horsemen and
shotmakers, while the big contingent iof
ponies, most of which were shipped from
Sydney last year, have advanced even the
reputation of the Australian pony, which
is as well known and esteemed in America
as in India.
* . * * 4>
“Hamer”: The last time I went fishing
there was nearly a tragedy. We were well
out on Botany Bay, when Blank, who had
been sorting out the parcels in the stern,
exclaimed, “By Jove, I’ve forgotten to bring
it!” Dash half-leapt from the seat, and I
thought he was going to unship his oar and
brain Blank; also, I wondered rapidly, as
the boat rocked, whether I could swim to the
shore and whether there were sharks about.
“What the blazes do you mean?” Dash
roared savagely. “I’ve forgotten the bait,”
said Blank. Dash recomposed himself placidly
at the oar. “Oh, the bait!” he said; “I
thought it was the beer.”
4: 4: 4= *
“John B.”: Greyhound racing is a close
preserve of a ring in Shanghai. There are
two racing clubs, and both companies lease
the dogs to owners. A shipment of 73 long-
tails left Sydney recently for Shanghai.
The European-Chinese managements con-
duct the sport well, and are not afraid to
spend money, on grandstands and other im-
provements. The tote operates, and to
Australian visitors the absence of MeShort-
odds is a matter for deep regret.
4t 4= * 4!
“Aileron”: The Schneider Cup race for
seaplanes over the Solent in August will be
flown over a 70-kilometre quadrangle, which
will be covered five times. This will mean a
flight of 217 miles, and local towns and cities
are specially organising means of dealing
with the expected crowds. The Aero Club,
which is running the show, will instal ocean
liners in the Solent to act as grandstands
for spectators who desire a de luxe view of
the flight.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Upland”: Rice-growing on the Murrum-
bidgee furnishes an inspiriting chapter in
our latter-day industrial history, but the
trouble of finding a market is looming up.
There are still 4000 tons of last year's crop
in the Sydney silos, with 20,000 tons expected
to come in next harvest. An “Mat more rice”
campaign has been suggested. A more sen-
sible plan would be to exploit the South Sea
Island markets. These draw their rice at
present from China and Japan, with a frac-
tion from Singapore. Their imports are big
and are increasing.
* * * *
“Greta”: I asked my storekeeper for Tas-
manian carbide, and he said he could not
get it sized as required. In the naked-light
collieries of N.S.W. and Queensland cap-
type lamps, with containers for carbide, are
used. On account of the smallness of these
containers carbide has to be sized to “through
gin. retained on Jin. mesh.” A jaw crusher
a set of crushing rolls and a shaking screen
would do the job. Meanwhile, Canada is
getting this particular trade.
* * * *
“Pabellco” : Among the strangest commodi-
ties imported into this great continent of
cattle-rearing and market-gardeninp are
tinned soups, pyramids of cans of which are
sold in flat-affecting cities like Sydney. Out of
tins pour such homely products as diced
carrots, parsnips and tripe! Green peas,
pearl barley and celery float in the savory
mixture. Just imagine the irony of hauling
turnips and tripe from U.S.A. to Australia!
* 4‘ * *
“Solent”: Fritz scored on at least one
occasion over that “Made in Germany”
label (B. 13/3/’29). Not long after it was
instituted, the Deutschland broke the trans-
Atlantic speed record that had so long been
a monopoly of British liners. There was a
big crowd to welcome her at Southampton,
and as she came up to her berth her sides
displayed in 30ft. white letters the taunting
legend, “Made in Germany.”
!]t * * *
“Bush-cat” : Visiting Mildura, the leading
irrigation settlement in Australia, I was im-
pressed with the beautiful sight presented
by the orchards and vineyards in a good
season. Fruit-trees of nearly every descrip-
tion flourish there, and citrus fruits do
exceptionally well. But I was told there
was distress among the families who flock
to Mildura for the picking, and that for the
first time in the history of the place it had
become necessary to open a free soup-
kitchen. I bought a dozen lemons in a Mil-
dura fruitshop. They cost me 25., and at
home I found they had been, pficked by “F.
Fusco and Co., Messina”!
# * * *
“0.P.11.” : Tenpence was the net result of
a charity “carnival” held in a Vic. up-
country town recently to relieve local dis-
tress. There was a nominal profit of £9
Gs. 4d., but £9 ss. 6d. was voted to the sec.
The programme consisted of two dances and
15 open-air events (five of them horse races),
with betting, a bar and a'braiss band. Chief
Sec. Argyle has asked for an explanation.
* 4c 4* *
“Binandele”: Papua has gone a step
further in educating the natives in ways of
making a living. Local authority in the
Port Moresby district distributed seeds of
European vegetables among the brown gentry
and ordered them to plant certain lands
reserved for them.- The idea has been so
successful that the coons have far more
than they can eat, and are selling the sur-
plus in Port Moresby. This has raised a
squeal from local European interests, but
it is explained that the sales have been per-
mitted to enable the darkies to pay a tax.
* * 4= 4=
“Gouger”: Captain Alf Gale, retired mari-
ner, hates to have his memory revived by
newspaper reports of rich ambergris finds.
When a boy he used to play bushrangers
with other choice spirits on Sydney’s Bondi
Beach. One day the gang stacked a heap
of driftwood for a signal fire, and, finding a
big lump of dried fat, added it to the blaze.
Much to their disappointment it did no';
burn, well, though it spluttered a lot. Alf
regaled a chemist friend with an account
of the experience, mentioning that there
were “little black wicks” in the melting fat.
Next day the chemist accompanied him to
the beach. They raked out of the ashes one
little lump of unburnt fat. It was first-
class ambergris, and had apparently been
a corner of a piece six pounds in weight.
“You’ve burned a thousand pounds,” said
the chemist.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Whether Melbourne City
Council has helped the traffic problem by
putting large concrete pillars at safety zones
in the middle of wide streets is a moot ques-
tion. Owing to poor visibility several motor-
ists have crashed into the pillars, and if
any pedestrians had been sheltering behind
them under the belief that they conferred
protection there would have been more dam-
age done than busted radiators and shattered
cement.


Qhe Choicest Creations in —
TTlen’s Knitted Sports Wear
tf 24.
Professional R. HORNSBY
driving in a “Merino-Knit”
Cardigan.
Merino-Knit Cardigans
and Sweaters are worn
by those particular
men whose sports attire
is “absolutely right”!
You, too, can confidently
play a “winning” game
just because you realise
in “Merino-Knit” the
smartness, choice color-
ings and perfect finish
that assure comfort and
good play.
HAMENOf Brand
'MERINO
KNIT
Men’s Sweaters
and Cardigans
"Merino-Knit” Sports Garments fit snugly to the body, and at the same
time give freely to all movements of the limbs in play.
Made Exclusively by the MERINO WOOLLEN MILLS Pty., Ltd.,
Specialists in Men’s High-Grade Sweaters and Cardigans, Half
Hose and Golf Hose.
ASK IJOUR MERCER FOR “MERINO-KNIT" AND QET ITI
Backache
GONE/
ertrety
No More Rheumatism or Stiffness
ertrety
"Only a backache!” “Only a pain!” “It will go,”
you say! Yet it doesn’t go and, because you treat
the matter lightly, you enter the danger zone—you
take the risk of cutting years from your life. It is
not by ignoring aches and pains, nor even by dulling
them, that you safeguard your health. A backache,
a toueh of rheumatismj stiff, swollen joints or limbs
—these may be very serious signs. Act quickly.
Act right !
FIND THE CAUSE.
Locate the cause of your trouble, and remove it
promptly. A sound, safe and reliable method of
doing this is by the use of Harrison’s Pills. This
remedy is composed of ingredients a qualified
physician would prescribe, and every package of
Harrison’s Pills bears the signature of a London
doctor. Harrison’s Pills not only soothe away the
aches and pains, but they definitely remove the
CAUSE, thus helping you to real health, not merely
the appearance of it. Harrison’s Pills reduce the
possibility of further attacks and are absolutely safe
under all circumstances.
TESTIMONY OF A NURSE.
Writing from St. Andrew’s Private Hospital, New
Lambton, Sister B. Piper says: “The success of
Harrison’s Pills in treating Kidney and Bladder
Troubles, Backache, etc., has been such that 1 have
recommended this remedy to scores of patients, and I
can testify definitely to their unusual efficacy and
great value for use in these painful troubles.”
Act now. Remember—rheumatic infection causes
more deaths from heart disease than any other
trouble. Get rid of your dangerous complaint at
once by taking Harrison’s Pills. Failing prompt
relief by this unusually successful remedy, see a
qualified medical man forthwith. All chemists and
stores sell Harrison’s Pills, at 2/-, 3/- and 6
For Uric Acid, Backache, Rheumatism, Neuritis, Stiff Joints,
Swollen Limbs, Kidney, Bladder and Urinary Troubles
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwuila Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
BY APPOINTMENX
GMfor
Gdsupddsuffi’s
©IN
The Ingredients used in the production of
GORDON'S GIN are of the finest quality procur-
able, and contain the greatest percentage of those
important properties which are considered by the
Medical Profession to be most beneficial to the
human system. It is very highly rectified and contains
no impurities of any kind; it is therefore very easily
digested and also aids the digestion of other beverages
with which it is mixed.
The name “GORDON” guarantees the very high-
est standard of quality and absolute purity: a
reputation enjoyed and jealously guarded ior over
150 years.
The Largest Gin Distillers in the World ♦
WHITEST
PUREST
& BEST
The Heart
of a good
Cocktail
VJa '
Gordons
dry Gin
Obtainable
Everywhere
* £
bakew. Wool
l ! p!| |; i i !::l | i i!i l l'l I I OH
m
mmm
msam*
sa ? :
W. JNO.
BAKER
3 HUNTER
STREET,
SYDNEY.
150—W. Jno.
Baker Station
or Farmer’s
Knife. The
standard
favorite
of the Aus-
tralian Bush.
4in. Stag
H-ft.
Price,
13/6 each.
Post Free for
Cash with Order .


tinder
Royal
Warrant
ertrety
ToH.R
Kind*
George V
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
QiarlesTleiid
atsiira
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limitad
SYDNEY.
CHAMPACSi l r/j
J \<£
E
«!HB
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Averts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
EVERY BLEMISH
REMOVED IN A FEW DAYS.
I will tell every reader of this paper how
FREE.
TOUR COMPLEXION MAKES.
OR MARS YOUR APPEARANCE.
Miss Grace Duncan, former actress, now offers to tell men
and women who are interested in the matter of the most
remarkable complexion treatment ever known. Stubborn
cases have been cured that baffled beauty-specialists for -
years. You have never in all your life used or heard of anything like it. Makes
muddy complexions, red spots, pimples, blackheads, freckles, eruptions vanish. No
cream lotion, enamel, salve, plaster, bandage, mask, massage, diet or apparatus,
nothin 0- to swallow. It doesn’t matter whether or not your complexion is a fright,
whether vou face is full of muddy spots, peppery blackheads, embarrassing
and eruptions, or whether your skin is rough and “porey, and youve tried almost
everything under the sun to get rid of the blemishes. This treatment in just a few days
removes blemishes and beautifies your skin in a marvellous way. ou
younger. It gives the skin the bloom and tint of purity of a freshly-blown rose In a
short while vou can be the subject of admiration by all your friends, no matter \v hat
vour a°-e or condition of health. There is nothing to wear, nothing to take internally.
Your face even arms hands, shoulders, are beautiful beyond your fondest
All this Miss Duncan will absolutely prove to you within a few days. This treatment
£'? K. M w 1 “io G » rac fo?s n »S4: e &T S'ffpyttVa"™
i£i* Ml ™DuSSn, who will give you toll details by return maib
MISS GRACE DUNCAN (Suit B 7), 195 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
ertrety
7hp cenfee of Queens/onc/s
' c//s/tnputshec/ Soc/o/ Life.
ffenncnw
Wotel
BRISBANE
ertrety
_ Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal t>*
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans m
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort o
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
SHEER
CHIFFON
SILK
SIOCKINGS
The Arts Club furnished an animated scene
one afternoon last week when Lady de Chair,
in leaf-brown frocking topped off with jade
earrings and a lasso of pearls, was the
guest of honor. Susie Williams, principal of
the Women’s College, came with her Ex.;
Mrs. John Garlick, the Civic Commissioner’s
lady, wrapped herself in honey georgettes and
lace. Lady de Chair’s principal job during
the afternoon was the selection of a painting
by a woman artist to adorn the blue and gold
walls of the' club. Out of six pictures sub-
mitted she chose Mrs. Iledley Parsons’s
“Bush Orchard.” Virginia Bassetti, Gladys
Verona, Mrs. Talbot and Charles Nicis were
responsible for star turns on the programme.
Pianist Jascha Spivakovsky’s little wife
has made quite a hit witli social Sydney.
Last week Lady de Chair spread a tea-party
for her at Government House, where the
Chines*' red and black outfit of the guest
drew son Somerset’s eye, and he sought to
capture her for his gallery of color photo-
graphs. It was a pity the afternoon was
too grey for a good recording of the glitter-
ing lint-white locks above the vivid frock-
ing. There was a different type of blonde
beauty at the party in Mrs. George Vivers.
dressed in slinky black. An armful of
freshly-picked roses was the garden offering
which the Spivakovskys took back to their
flat.
During the sixth months’ course of “The
Patsy” in Sydney Warde Morgan presided
behind the scenes at the Criterion as stage
manager, and he goes on with the company
to Maoriland. There is hardly a limp left
from the injuries sustained in the train
smash of a few years ago, although it was
at first feared that the popular actor
would be a lifelong cripple.
Belgian Consul’s daughter Henrictte is
busy preparing for her wedding in May. It
is to be a very quiet affair, with no party to
follow. As she very wisely says, the bride
and bridegroom never enjoy the wedding
party, and she wants to enjoy hers; so her
reception will be staged after the honeymoon.
A house above Balmoral Beach is already
being furnished for the future home. The
wedding dress, one for afternoon wear (and
not white), is on its way from Brussels.
As often as a member of the Sydney Hos-
pital Women’s Auxiliary lifts her head from
hemming a sheet or cutting out pyjamas,
she catches the gleam of beauty’s wing flash-
ing in at the windows. The new rooms in
Catton Buildings, 199 Liverpool-street, have
one of the finest views in the city, and when
the committee welcomed new secretary Edith
Rowsell the other morning, Nature was
radiant in greens and blues. Mrs. Arthur
Winn, president of the Auxiliary, arranged
the function, and a discussion followed on
the avenues to be explored for funds during
the coming season. A bridge evening will
be the first. Dr. Richard Arthur’s lady is
president of the committee formed to make
the arrangements, and Civic Commissioner
John Garlick’s wife is among the long list
of vice-presidents.
Everybody came to Jack Griffiths’s 1 party
at the Waldorf last week-end. George
Portus did the organising well, mixing with
a lavish hand the learned professions, poli-
ticians, beauty, musicians and songsters.
Mrs. Carrick, the departing one’s handsome
sister, helped do the honors in scintillating
white georgettes, and ex-Mayoress Cecilia
Walsh, cousin Fanny Donnelly and Mrs. P.
F. Baulman all lent a willing hand. The
witty and cultured Monsignor King was
called upon* to present Jack with a pearl
and diamond tiepin sent by Dan Green, who
regretted his inability to be at the party and
in Canberra simultaneously. An enormous
horseshoe of lilies and roses was florist Fred
Searl’s contribution. Gerald Marr Thomp-
son, just back from oversea, whispered com-
parisons of the musical London of 39 years
ago with the broadcasting London of to-
day ; Mrs. Trefle, Mrs. Hugh Ward, May
Moore, Mrs. J. C. Williamson and the
Morgan O’Neils were others who dropped in
for a last-minute good-bye to the popular
concert manager.
Enid Hopkins and Cyril Hilling were among
last week’s linked-for-life, according to St.
James’s in King-street. Enid, the only
daughter of the R. A. Hopkinses, of Rabaul,
was given away by brother Thorold, and
wore chiffons that gleamed mist-like over a
roseate lining. A voluminous veil of tulle
ended in a snowdrift of train. Mary Kirk,
the one ’maid, was a swirl of daffodil georg-
ette. Reception at the Cavalier, where Mrs.
,T. E. Savage, of Rabaul, did the honors.
Arthur Benjamin, a home-grown pianist
and composer, came back to Sydney last
week by the Orford. Arthur studied his in-
strument in Vienna in early youth, and even
then was noted for his music parties and
recitals in which his own compositions figured
largely. They will form an interesting part
of his programme during his season, which
begins at the Town Ilall in April. The tour,
under the Carroll management, >vas to have
started in Melbourne in Easter week, but in
December the musician had his left hand
badly smashed in a taxi accident in London,
which necessitated a change of plans. A
Concertino (mind the last step!) from his
own pen which a Berlin audience received
with marked approval will la? tried out on
the Australian ear. It is. the composer ex-
plains, an attempt to bring jazz from the
dance-hall to the concert platform. He has
welded four’ short movements into one, in-
corporating a “Blues” motive, and intro-
ducing a comic double fugue “to satisfy the
academic element.” Arthur has a good word
for Germany, where, when they learned he
was a composer, they deducted 20 per cent,
from his hotel bill.
The Musical Association is beginning to
get that Easter-cgg feeling, so, instead of
the asparagus soup of welcome, tea will be
brewed and crumpets buttered for an after-
noon reception to Erica Morini and Arthur
Benjamin on March 21 at Farmer’s. Erica
is reported beautiful.
Grace Elizabeth Galbraith was one of last
week’s brides who sought the blessing of
St. Stephen’s on her adventure into matri-
mony with George V. Johnson, of Nambucca
River. A tight little bodice of white moire,
sparkling with rhinestones that rippled into
an ankle-length skirt of narrow, rose-spat-
tered frills, formed the wedding garment.
Through the veil of rare Honiton lace a
rosy tulle lining blushed, and a trail of pink
orange blossom moored it to the bride’s head.
Three bridesmaids, in pale-blue taffeta
bodices and spreading ankle-length skirts of
tulle, swished after the bride, a small
cousin of whom, masquerading as a pink
rose, scattered fragrant petals in the path-
way of the newly-weds. Stuart Macgregor
best-manned, and leading pai’ts were taken
by groomsmen John Galbraith and Charles
Johnson. Bride’s mother, Mrs. John Gal-
braith, of Tullyrush, Double Bay, welcomed
the guests to the festive board at the Ambas-
sadors.
Here is Hollywood’s picture of Joan
Raynor. the girl who is responsible with
sister Betty
for the city’s
newest theatre
-•-the Theatre
of Tout h,
known as the
T.O.Y. The
idea of having
a little theatre
for the presen-
tation of plays
and poems
suitable for
the very young
has proved a
great success
in Lond o n,
where Joan
Luxto n, a
clever West-
ralian, runs a
bandbox of a
playhouse for
kiddies only.
But the two
Maoriland girls (they hail from South-
land) are not restricting their stock of plays
to the young in years. In fact, the audience
booked for the first night is solidly middle-
aged, but in heart they are all round about
12. The opening entertainment, will be made
up of songs from many lands, sea chanties
and two plays—an old English pastoral, done
in the mock grand heroic, and a very old
Russian play, “The Bear.” The tiny theatre has
for its very suitable address 8 Young-street,
once a shipping agency. Its original color-
ing of orange and brown has been freshened
up on recommendations of Government archi-
tect Norman Weekes; the proscenium and
curtains are to be of grey hemp scrolled in
orange and brown. At the side of the main
hall is a little buttery from which coffee
will be served. As the theatre holds only
150 this won’t be such a loaves-and-fishes
task as might appear. Lady de Chair will
give the first performance a social kick-off
by bringing a Government House party, and
daughter Elaine, who will make the opening
speech, hopes to become one of the players
in an early programme.
The Society of Women Writers dragged
in a netful of celebrities for its first after-
Christmas lunch. One was the sparkling
little wife of pianist Jascha Spivakovsky,
who arrived in a Chinese-red outfit on which
the presentation posy of frangipanni smiled
happily’. Then came Nettie Palmer and
novelist-husband Vance, the ready word on
her lips and the dream in his eyes, blue as
the shirt in which he faced the battery of
feminine eyes. At the foot of the table sar.
Mr. Robert Wright, a Maoriland M.P. and
former Minister for Education. He’s a
cousin of Mrs. Theodosia Wallace, one of
Sydney’s best-known women journalists, and
his speech was suave as a magnolia petal
and humorous enough to put everybody in
good humor. Nettie Palmer said something
to the effect of “Down with the advertising
and up with the general news,” ignoring
the fact that the more news and readable
comment he publishes, the more the shrink-
ing newspaper proprietor is pelted with
advertisements. President Mrs. Baverstock,
a dyed-in-the-wool journalist of the third
generation, made a spirited defence of the
advertiser in our midst. Then every woman
went about her affairs, ranging from tem-
perance meetings to the pursuit of the winter
hat.
When Alfred Hill’s new Maori opera
“Teora” floats in melody over the footlights
of the Turret
Theatre a t
Milson’s Point
next Saturday
evening, the
young man in
this May
Moore picture
will have quite
a lot to do with
th e success.
He is Joseph
Post, and for
months he lias
labored for
love with the
orchestra h e
will conduct
on Saturday.
Every member
has been speci-
ally picked by
Mr. Post, and
he is confident
that, from
leader Lloyd Davies down, Ids musicians are
the right group to present the Maori legend
set in Mr. Hill’s fresh-as-the-morning music.
The opera is named “Teora,” or “The
Enchanted Flute.” ' It is in one act, and
concerns a victorious warrior who, to demean
a slain (and once feared) foe, makes a
flute out of his arm-bone. But when he goes
down among the kowhai and the tree-ferns
and the manuka of his damp and evergreen
native glade to play on the flute, the spirit
of the dead comes hack to taunt him. He
asks the local prophet for an explanation.
The witch doctor can’t or won’t explain.
Then the Maori chief’s son enters with the
dead enemy’s daughter, whom he has taken
captive by his father’s orders, only to have
fallen captive in his turn to her liquid eyes
and voice. The father accuses the girl of be-
witching the flute and his son of disloyalty. A
magic spear (with qualities something akin to
those of the Holy Grail) is the means of de-
ciding the girl’s innocence while she is pour-
ing out her heart in an aria such as Puccini
or Mascagni might have penned. There are
love-duets and warrior-choruses, and a true-
to-life Maori background by clever Don.
Finlay, who has also designed the costumes.
Members of the Country Women’s Asso-
ciation are preparing for their seventh gen-
eral conference, which opens on Tuesday,
April 9, in the auditorium of David Jones’.
The big talk will, last four days, and dele-
gates will have to rise with the lark, for
they are asked to be in their places each day
at 9.30 for roll-call. They will discuss ways
and means of taking city children to the
country for a change, as suggested by Lady
de Chair at the last conference. More play-
grounds for children, the decentralisation of
the homes for the aged, tree-planting and
the preservation of native timbers are move-
ments that will not lack advocacy, and there
is a motion that the “manufacturers of
blankets be approached through the Chamber
of Commerce requesting that single and
three-quarter blankets be made the same
length as double blankets.” Now, how many
people knew they weren’t? •
Sydney is already well-equipped with
women’s clubs iu the Macquarie, the
Queen’s, the Women’s, the Country Women's,
the Feminists’, the Queen Victoria, the Arts
and the Lyceum. Still another is promised
in the Forum, with capable Ruth Beale
among its founders. There are other groups,
such as the Women Writers, but they merely
gather for lunch once a week at the Dun-
gowan. In most of the clubs man and the
cocktail are almost minus qualities—in some,
such as the Feminists, the latter is entirely
repudiated and the former kept in his place,
which, it would appear, is the home. The
Queen Victorians encourage music; Mrs.
Arthur Scrivener, one of their ardent office-
bearers, mentioned the other day that hence-
forth the invitations to artists to play at their
parties would be accompanied by cheques.
Hitherto, in this club, as in others, the
budding singer and musician have regarded
the introduction of their talent to the mem-
bers as a fee in kind. Sydney, for all its
reputed culture, lias few hostesses willing
to pay for classical music at their parties.
A man who interprets Bach and Brahms
is expected to play for his supper, while the
jazz-band that renders “Yes, We Have Iso
Bananas” and “Sonny Boy’’ draws union
rates.
The American colony in Sydney lost one
of its most striking looking members when
Prank Coffee died last week. Ilis 77 years
had not robbed him of his pink-and-white
complexion ; crowning this was a mop of silky
white hair; and these, with liis erect, slim-
ness, always focussed attention on him at
big American functions. As far back as
1881 Mr. Coffee was associated with artistic
and writing Sydney. He was one of the
originators of the "Picturesque .Atlas, ’ into
which The Bulletin’s old chief, William
Macleod (then a black and white artist), put
much good work. Mr. Coffee’s one book.
“Forty Years on the Pacific,” had quite a
success. During his illness the spacious
billiard-room of daughter Mrs. Dan Kelly s
home at Kirribilli was turned into a minia-
ture hospital with a staff of four nurses. Mrs.
Coffee and Frank’s devoted sister, three
daughters (Mrs. Dan Kelly, Mrs. James
Hughes and Dorothy Coffee) and two sons
are sorrowing.
Viola Smith, the world’s only woman
trade-commissioner she represents the
U.S.A. in Shanghai—will speak at the
Feminists’ Club to-morrow (Thursday) at
3 p.m. The members of all women’s organi-
sations are invited to King-street to hear
Miss Smith’s address.
N.S.W. got: its fourth woman solicitor
when Miss Muriel Hamilton Hudson, LL.B.,
was admitted to practice. The lady
served her articles with Pigott, Stinson, Mac-
gregor and Palmer, with which firm she re-
mains. She wears a full crop of hair, and
otherwise shows no bent for “advanced
ideas.
Vellum lace frocking, whose long clinging
sleeves suggested mediaeval Italy, was worn
by Arline Peryman when she and Frederick
Wyndham cheerfully acquiesced in the life
sentence inflicted by padre W. J. Macdonald
at the Scotchbyterian Kirk in Mosman last
week. A veil of Brussels net and point lace
and a bouquet of deep-blue delphiniums and
frangipanni were other commendable items
in this bride’s outfit. Dorothy Benbow
’maided in anemone-pink chiffons, which
made a fine color harmony with her armful
of delphiniums and delphinium-blue hat.
Toasts at the Mosman home of the bride s
parents, Mr. and Mrs. S. T. Peryman.
That Professor Tonks who was lately
mentioned in this Letter as having charge
of the studies of Josephine Paxton at the
Slade Schools in London is an unusual
sort of artist: he is the only one of
high rank in the world who is also an
F.R.C.S. He was a great surgeon, but his
study of anatomy had merely whetted an
earlier appetite for drawing and painting, and
he threw up a brilliant medical career to pur-
sue art. A brother who lived in Sydney for a
few years was equally ill-placed. He wanted
to be a chef! Isabel, one of the two daugh-
ters of this Tonks household —they all re-
turned to England a few years back—‘-was
married there recently. After training at
St. Thomas’s in London and getting a special
course of instruction from her uncle, she pre-
sently went to the Soudan as matron of a
military hospital. Now she is Mrs. Corby-
Lyon.
“A.G.M.” (London) writes:—
Amy Xherwin, who has been married to Hugo
GUrli.tz for 50 years, is just back in London from
Pomerania, where her widowed sister-in-law has an
ancestral estate, with a fourteenth-century church
within the grounds. As usual, the lady’s clothes
represent the last word in fashion and her complexion
is as radiant as the model for a soap advertisement.
Mrs. Gamburgh, an Australian with a young and
devoted husband, was to have left for Spain this
week, but the unsettled situation in De Rivera’s
country made her abandon the project. Melbourne
will have vivid memories of Mrs, Gamburgh, daughter
of David Henry, the financier, and first wife of Dr.
Douglas Stewart, of Brunswick. She is an excep-
tionally fine amateur pianist.
The girl in the flat opposite drops a line
from Yass: —
The races opened with slight sprinkles of the rain
which the parched country sorely needs, but there
was a sneaking wish for one fine day. There were
an extraordinary number of brown dresses in all
shades. Black,'too, was popular. The color note
came from the flags fluttering above the grand-
stand, from brilliant red, blue, green and yellow
parasols, and from the scarves which are the
complement of every woman’s attire. Immediately
after the last race came a great dash for cars and
avoidance of the clouds of dust which smother the
later starters. The dresses at the ball were abso-
lutely the last work in richness and beauty. Arthur
Johnson and Charles D’Arcy Irvine had made the ball
radiant with clematis trees of red and yellow, about
10ft. high, with blue lanterns hanging from the
branches. In the early hours the party became
hectic. A couple of goats were brought in and
let loose, and a gallant drove his new car around
the hall with 30 dancers at a time. The women
didn’t seem to mind the damage to the fragile
beauty of their clothes.


a
Z hucuis
v|M'<‘.iinen
§a pp tu-r*e
Nisitoi«s
to London
Mappin & Webb have the distinction of
being one of the oldest Firms of Gold
and Silversmiths, Jewellers, and Dress-
ing Bag Makers in the World, and they
extend a cordial invitation to visitors
from the Commonwealth to call when
.in London.
The Oxford Street and Regent Street
Showrooms are within 5 minutes by
taxi from the leading Hotels; the City
Showrooms are quite near St. Paul’s
Cathedral, The Tower of London, Guild-
hall, and opposite The Mansion Hous<
MAPPINLWEBB
JEWELLEKY WATCHE S • CLOCKS • SILVERWARE
PRINCE S PLATE • FANCY € LEATHER GOODS.
—: LONDON SHOWROOMS :
158162.0XF0RD STw.i.I72.REGENT STe.c.l
Love Me and the Luck is Yours!
As I was saying to Tabithai Men are fools; why should they work for
a living when they can pick up wealth like this ? Listen! All you have to
do is to look at me, love me, and the shilling’s mine, so to speak, but
the fortune’s yours—£lo,ooo of it. Nobody ever failed who trusted
Peter.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES FIRE BRIGADES’ ART UNION
FOR HOSPITALS, AMBULANCES, AND CHARITY.
(Sanctioned by the Attorney’General)
©
©
I AM PETER
THE LUCK BRINGrER.
TAIS IS YOUR LUCKY DAY-
SEND ALONG AT ONCE
ILL
'Don hit)
£lO,OOO in Prizes. First Prize a solid Gold Helmet, valued
at £3000; Second Prize a Golden Casket of Diamonds valued
at £1000; Third Prize a Diamond Tiara valued at £750.
TICKETS: ONE SHILLING.
Six Tickets, 5/; Twelve Tickets, 10/; Twenty-five Tickets, £l.
A Ticket a Day Keeps Misfortune Away!
Send at once. State whether Mr., Mrs., or Miss. Enclose stamped envelope
for result slip. Art Union Drawn on June 1, 1929.
Address: J. J. NEVILLE, Hon. Secretary.
Fire Brigades Headquarters, 213 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
TAKE THE ADVICE OF A WISE OLD TOMCAT AND 808 IN
I’LL BE HAPPY WHEN THE BOBS COME BOBBING ALONG!
Test
/VIEW
the pen
Bessre L. a. Sloan Ltd
The Pen Corner
Kingoway. W.C. t.
SBPTZMBER2S iqZB
Oentlemen
—. , v ““•* et “» , “T e f® r *«*« Alighted In the uae of a Waterman • Pen,
We take with “* to Australia thle time not only our old pone which hare
oerYed us oo well in the past but the brand new Waterman'a In Ripple Blue
Green, Ripple OllYe, and Ripple Rose. mppie Blue
What beautiful pene theoe are, and already we hare found that they
WTlte aa readily and 40 efficientlyaa our old favourites.
And what beautiful pencilo, too*
wfth tv. '!! J 0" J'i 1 •‘•“tPPed not only for the Cricket field but to cope
/H
jr} MM, j l
0*
4
I
pp
>hW<
t
/3~
Did you get their auto-
graphs ? If not. cut out this
letter, as the next best
thing, and keep it. It is a
letter ol appreciation writ-
ten by the M.C.C. team
while on their way to
Australia, and it is signed by
every man in the team. It
is a remarkable tribute to
a remarkable pen, and you
cannot do better than follow
the example of Chapman's
men and do all your writing
with a Waterman's —by
every test the best.
ASK ANY STATIONER
to show you his range of Waterman’s Pens including
the new Two-Tone Ripple Colours —Ripple Blue
Green, Ripple Rose and Ripple Olive, in stainless
hard rubber, the most satisfactory material for
fountain pens.
Watermans
ertrety
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE ..... BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
THE WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price 3d.


TO EUROPE-
Via UNITED STATES & CANADA
See Honolulu, San Francisco, Lor Angeles, Chicago,
Niagara Falls, New York, Vancouver, Montreal, Que-
bec, and travel across the Atlantic on one of the
luxurious
CUNARD LINERS,
including the
R.M.S. AQUITANIA,
46,000 Tons.
R.M.S. BERENGARIA,
54,000 Tons.
R.M.S. MAURETANIA,
30,000 Tons.
Return Tickets issued by the Suez Canal and Cape
Lines are available for this route.
Apply for particulars of reduced through rates to
CUNARD LINE
(C. and D. Line),
1 BENT STREET, SYDNEY.
&he WENTWORTH
Easter Carnival
Commencing SATURDAY, MARCH 30. with a Dinner de
Luxe A REPLICA OF NEW YEAR'S EVE —at which Each
Guest will receive a Beautiful Gift.
DINNER FROM 7.30 p.m 21/-
SUPPER FROM 9 p.m. .. .. .. • 2/6
MONDAY, SYDNEY CUP NIGHT —-Carnival Night at the
Wentworth, Novelties and Gifts.
DINNER 21/-; SUPPER 12/6
THURSDAY and FRIDAY . . Popular Prices
A Brilliant New Orchestra in Intriguing
New and Favorite Old Jazz Numbers.
Order Wines Before 6p.m.
For Reservations, Telephone B\\ 1361.
Tried & Proved
For more than 136 years public
opinion has endorsed the value of
Rowland’s Macassar Oil as a means
of keeping the hair in perfect con-
dition and preventing thin or grey
hair.
In bottles, of
0 h e m i sts,
Stores and
H a i r dressers.
Red for dark
hair; golden
for fair or
grey hair.
Macassar Oil
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.1.,
ENGLAND. c.t.p.67.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Flizabethan
Tea Rooms
[?] Cnta [?]
Buakley[?]
[?]
Melbourne took the last two days of the
Test match very seriously. When Ivippax
was run out the wail of agony that went up
was infinitely more poignant than that which
arose at Caulfield when the favorite fell in
the steeplechase. Onlookers were quite pre-
pared to wait for hours on Saturday so long
as there was a chance of victory, but before
a quarter to three it was all over, and Ryder
and Bradman were endeavoring to dodge the
attentions' of a delighted mob. Among the
onlookers at the finish were cricketer Greg-
ory and his pretty wife, who was a study in
black velvet, apd Mrs. A. I’. F. Chapman, who
sat with Mrs. Ilobbs. Dr. and Mrs. J. Mer-
rillees, who had deserted the gee-gees, were
also there.
With the passing last week of Mrs. A.
Landale in London, and of Mrs. Herbert
Power and Mrs. Sumner here, branches of
almost every one of Victoria’s best-known
landed families have been plunged into
mourning. In the circumstances, many of the
usual patrons were missing from the
V.A.T.C. meeting at Caulfield on Saturday,
and the counter-attractions of the Test
match, the St. Patrick's Day sports and
some charity happenings contributed to cdt
down the attendance. A cold wind brought
out an array of feminine furs, including
examples of the new winter coats which,
like last season’s, follow wrapover lines and
are collared and culled to great depth. Blue
is the favorite shade. There was a great
variety of color about the millinery, which
vied for brightness with the flower-decked
grounds. Mrs. Richard Linton, the Rogers
Thomsons, Mrs. Ben Chaffey and the Fred
Scarlett's were lawn patrollers and Mrs. T.
A. Tabart, Mrs. B. Traill and Valerie
Purves were on the members’ stand.
If the "State o'f Victoria ever comes up for
judgment, it will have at least one fine
humanitarian achievement on the credit side
of the Book of Doom—the old Colonists’
Home at nushall Crescent, North Fitzroy.
It ought; to be given the plural, for there are
103 comfortable bungalows, mostly red and
white brick, inside the galvanised iron fence,
topped by a well-trimmed hedge, that sur-
rounds the little colony. Not only are the
homes surrounded by flowers, but the Fitzroy
Council, abetted by a couple of prominent
citizens, has nordered the footpaths around
the central square with garden plots, now gay
with dahlias, asters and Easter daisies. There
is nothing sordid or sad about the settle-
ment, and a minimum of red tape. Beyond
giving the grant of land 60 years ago, the
Government has played no part in the
matter. A council of citizens of high stand-
ing administers the finances and safeguards
the welfare of the old folk. All save three
of the homes bear the names of generous
people who have paid for their erection, and
other Victorians have endowed them. Room
remains on the 10-acre plot for another 80
cottages. The beneficiaries must be over 60
and must have lived in the State for at
least 25 years. They include married couples
and unattached women and men. They liv;
rent free, receive free medical attendance and
medicine, enjoy the old age pension and
receive also a small monthly grant from the
Old Colonists’ Association. All are expected
to furnish their homes, but in case jf neces-
sity a helping hand is given. There is a hos-
pital with two wards, and a hall, with a
library, is attached to the Superintendent’s
residence.
It was actor-manager George Coppin, be-
loved by playgoers in days of long ago, who
founded the Old Colonists’ Association in
1869 and built the first cottage in the grounds
in 1870. Two other cottages, the G. V.
Brooke, a memorial to the famous actor, and
another, were put up by the Australian
Dramatic and Musical Association about the
same time for the . use of mummers when
their stage days were over. These were
apart from other homes until 1907, but then
were acquired by the O.C.A. There are
still some former theatricals among the
residents. The latest-built home is quite
an ornamental structure. It has a small
central tower, stands on a, rise and is dedi-
cated to Coppin. It was opened by Lucy M.
Coppin last year and Mr. and Mrs. Bland
Holt were present. They are both keenly
interested in the old people, and annually
give a party for them.
Mrs. Sarah Jones Sumner, widow of the
late T. J. Sumner, of Stony Park, Fitzroy,
who died last week, was, one of the most
open-handed supporters of the O.C.A. The
Sumner Hall and Lodge, the Sumner Hos-
pital and a cottage are memorials to the
generosity of Mrs. Sumner and her husband.
Mrs. James Grice, wife of the chairman of
the V.A.T.C., is a daughter.
The superintendent, Mr. Wijnbladh, took
over liis duties 30 years ago, when the
colony consisted of but 24 residences. A
native of Sweden, lie has, outside his interest
in his job, the hobbies of stamp-collecting
and the gathering of antiques. His office is
a museum containing many rare bits of china,
earJy-Victorian articles of fashion and other
rare bric-h-brac. He is on the best of terms
with the residents.
Our latest movie palace, the Regent, was a
bower of flowers on the occasion of tne
opening on Friday night. The blooms were
fitted into niches of the foyer and about the
balcony, with its crimson-velvet curtained
boxes that look down upon the vestibule.
There were a couple of immense geographi-
cal globes, made of hydrangeas, with the
continents picked out in crimson carnations;
a golden crown rested upon an entire cushion
of red blossoms, and baskets of roses and
gladioli were legion. As the crowds swept
up the marble steps with cameras recording
their coming, gasps of wonder and delight,
were heard all round. The carpets, the
gilded period furniture, the fine pictures
(which include one by H. S. Power), the
statuary and the bird-baths set in alcoves
hung with ferns —all are in harmony. The male
theatre staff 'in uniforms of blue and red,
and the usherettes in costumes of viviandier •
mode, came in for their meed of admiration, as
did au important functionary who seemed
to be impersonating a field-marshal —his
job, apparently, was to round up later-comers
and inform them in modulated tones that, the
show was about to commence. A very fine
orchestra gave the first taste of its quality
in the piece that one stands up to hear.
Hugh Steyne announced the extra turns,
which included a ballet of girls whose apparel
of Spanish extraction appeared to be made
of black patent leather and red satin. A
magpie effect of black tights and white tulle
frills clothed what was clothed in a second
number. Ivy Towe, in moonlight blue and
gold flounces, with Freddie Hodges, contri-
buted special dances. Proceeds went to the
Mayor’s Fund, and the audience included
Mayor and Mayoress Luxton, Mr. and Mrs.
Herbert Brookes, Dr. and Mrs. Stanley
Argyle, Dr. and Mrs. A. Robertson, Mrs.
Clarence Marriott and many others interested
in the charities that were being aided.
“Applesauce,” the new Yankee play that
opened at the Comedy on Saturday, includes
among its stage settings a kitchen with a
stove that really cooks, a sink with water
laid on and a well-stocked ice-chest. Ruth
Nugent wears some dainty flapper attire—
a frilled frock of Lido-blue crepe de Chine
and a pretty sleeveless almond-green gown
worn with a bridge coat of the same colored
ring velvet —but otherwise the dressing
doesn’t call for comment. The usual first-
night speeches were made after heaps of
hoiticulture had been, handed up. Some
Taits were in the managerial box, and the
George Russells, Dr. and Mrs. Bob Strong,
the W. E. Bates and Eileen O’Keefe were
also in the audience.
This is Dr. Lily Jorgensen, wife of painter
Justus Jorgensen, whose work recently lined
the walls of
the Athenaeum
Hall. She has
a claim to dis
tinction her-
self. A native
of Brisbane,
she began a
medical course
at the northern
Uni., putting
in the. last four
years at the
Melbourne
medieal school.
She polished
off her train-
ing with a
post - graduate
course in
London. Paint-
ing with her is
a side-line —it
was as his
pupil that she
first made the acquaintance of her husband.
Lafayette made the portrait.
A perfume soft, beautiful and hypnotic
filled the air at. the Royal Horticultural
Show at the Town Hall the other day. It
emanated from a group of magnificent
orchids. Two exhibitors were responsible
for the fine collection, perhaps the best and
most expensive yet seen in Melbourne. A. M.
Nicholas, of Auburn, sent from his hot-
houses immense blooms, white-tipped with
yellow, mauve and white, and others of pinky-
mauve and petunia hues. In the other
grower's section was a rare copper-colored
bloom that shaded to a cosmos tone. This
was the first of a series of free monthly
shows given by the R.H.S. Though on a
somewhat small scale, the exhibits were of a
high standard, dahlias and gladioli, after
the orchids, forming the chief attraction.
Mayor Luxton, who is president of the
society, took a few minutes off to introduce
the show to the public.
There was wandering beneath the moon—
what there was of it—on the Yarra’s Hen-
ley lawns on Thursday night, when there was
a dance at The Palms, engineered by Mrs.
H. J. Robertson, to reduce the debt on the
women’s hostel of the Association of Adult
Blind at Windsor. Everyone had a good
time, and the monetary harvest was satis-
factory.
Parliament will assemble for a special
unofficial session on April 9 to honor Alec
Peacock, the Speaker, who will complete 40
years as a member of the Assembly on March
28. The Government is providing the ban-
quet, and is not afraid of setting up a pre-
cedent, as very few members have or yvill
complete four decades of continuous service.
Souvenirs will be presented to Alec for him-
self and for his wife, who helps him to
represent Allandale.
The felt-hatted young lady depicted here
by Ruskin is Mrs. Cecil McKay, who holds
a local air re-
cord for a solo
Hight lasting
well over an
hou r. The
aviatress ad-
mits that only
the knowledge
that oth e r
women h a d,
gone through'
with it in-
duced her to
go cloud-riding
in the first
instance. Now
she has a
Gypsy Moth in
her hangar at
Sunshine, and
thinks it safer
than a car and
in uc h more
e x h i larating.
Mrs. McKay,
who shares her hobby with her husband, is
a member of the Willie Shaw family, whose
squattage is near Bendigo.
The Rev. Dr. W. Borland, at Scots’ kirk,
gave his daughter Catherine in marriage to
Malcolm, youngest .son of the Wilson
Camerons, of High Park, Ivilmore. The bride,
who had four ’maids in apparel that re-
sembled in hue early autumn foliage, had
a white tulle veil floating over white
georgette.
Hair, unlike Rome, can be built in a day.
Shingled coiffures are giving way to the bang
(or bun) of the ’Bo’s and ’9o’s, and a sur-
prising number of these nape-o’-the-neek
adornments have been seen'at dances lately.
Explanation’s simple—many of the knobs
were of the removable type.
The Firm stepped in the other night and
forbade the Playlovers’ Club to give a read-
ing of “Young Woodley,” and secretary Crisp
had only a few hours in which to arrange
another bill for the evening. Bernard Shaw,
Barrie and other playwrights whose works
don’t often leaven the flood of unadulterated
dramatic tripe discharged upon this unfor-
tunate continent were drawn into the breach,
and Ruby May, Hettie Feuerman, Lucy
Ahon, W. H. Cnandler, Terence Crisp and
Eric Donald put on a very enjoyable even-
ing's entertainment.
The minds of Fritz Hart and Bernard
Heinze were in accord one afternoon last
week. Our leading conductor, in opening
painter Justus Jorgensen’s show, spoke of the
value of environment as an aid to art. The
Director of the Uni. Con., responding to a
welcome after his tour of Europe, told his
students that no Australian could be a great
musician unless he or she went abroad. It
was not a matter of teaching only, but of
contact with those to whom music and art
were not mere luxuries but necessi-
ties. The Chancellor and medical knight
James Barrett, on behalf of the Coun-
cil ; Weston Pett, for the staff; and Marie
Mhgan, representing the Students’ Club, gave
greeting to the popular young head of the
Uni. Con. Mrs. Herbert Brookes, wearing
mushroom-pink georgette and lace with nut-
brown straw millinery, represented the music-
lovers of the community,
Madame Evelyn Scotney, the singer, who
has been spending the summer months by the
sea, at Parkdale, came to town to welcome
her old friend Maisie Guy at a reception
held at the home of her cousin Mrs. J. R.
Dunlcin, Miller Grove, Kew. The hostess,
who meditates a return to London at the
conclusion of her recitals in this city, wore
an effective flame-toned gown glistening with
gold embroideries. Amongst the company
Maisie Guy spotted a familiar face, that of
Mrs. Willie James, who as Saffo Arnar was
associated with Miss Guy in the London
run of “High Jinks.” Among the guests
were the Sutton Crows and the Donald
Mcßeaths. Madame Muriel Cheek contri-
buted to the musical programme.
Mrs. Otway Falkiner will shortly be
coming into the limelight in a new role. She
is responsible for the scenario of an Aus-
tralian movie soon to be released, dealing
with station life from a social aspect. Wid-
gewa, her husband’s station home in the
Riverina, is the scene of action. Incidents
include a kangaroo hunt, a polo match and
a midnight swimming party in the bathing
pool.
Passed over lately a well-known Western
District lady, Mrs. John Phillips. She was
a daughter of the late Richard Swan, and
was born 73 years ago at Nangeela station,
Casterton; her husband was Captain John
Phillips. The young couple made their first
home at Ascot Ileath. Dartmoor. Mrs. Phil-
lips leaves two daughters and six sons to con-
tinue the family history.
Mrs. Herbert Pow’er, who died last week,
was for many years one. of Toorak’s leading
hostesses. She was the widow of the late Her-
bert Power, of Bungowannali squattage,
Albury, well known in the sporting world,
whose name is perpetuated in the Herbert
Power Stakes. At Moonga, in Power-avenue,
Toorak, the Powers dispensed hospitality on
a liberal scale. On the deatli of the head of
the house the property was sold to Mrs.
Albert Miller. Of late Mrs. Power made her
home in Tintern-avenue in the same locality.
She leaves a quartette of daughters and a
son, Reginald, who is married to a daughter
of baronet Rupert Clarke. Two. sons pre-
deceased their mother, one being killed in the
Great War.
As a preliminary canter to the appeal
launched bv Mayor Buxton for the Women’s
Hospital. Mrs. Herbert Brookes, president
of tlie institution, spoke of its needs over
a tea-brewing at the Lyceum Club. The hos-
pital first: opened its doors in a very small
way in 1856. Now it. has grown to 270 beds
ami many cots, and last year 3300 brandmew
Australians saw the light of day there. For
six years there has been no call upon the
public for funds. Now £lOO,OOO is wanted
for rebuilding the 60-year-old service block
and th»‘ acquisition of additional land. A
new laundry is the largest' item; with fur-
nishings it will eat up £21,000. Another
part to be rebuilt is the pathological depart-
ment;. As all medical students at the Uni
must put in a part of their course in this
hospital, it is essential that this section
should be kept up-to-date.
Travelling about: a month ahead of hii
Ex., Lady Somers and her small daughtei
set out in the Maloja for a holiday in Eng-
land. Limousines lined the wharf when
the liner cast off the painter at Prince’s
Pier, and the v.-r. lady took a whole bower
of posies to sea,
Mrs. H. Gill (Esther Paterson) is off
with her husband to seek local color abroad,
sailing early next month. The. husband has
earned a reputation as a writer of short
stories and sketches.
We may see women as Methodist pastors
soon. The Vic. Methodist Conference last
week declared in favor of the innovation,
subject to the stipulation that the ladies
must resign on taking husbands. In the
Salvarmy women have proved themselves
capable preachers and administrators, and
perhaps that consideration influenced the
Vic. Methodies.
Canon and Mrs. Hughes have presented
the Australian Board of Missions with a
new cinema van and the vehicle was blessed
by Dean Aickin outside the Melbourne
Cathedral amidst the roar of the world's
busiest intersection. It is replete with cinema
and films depicting the business of saving
souls amongst the Torres Islanders and other
heathen of the wild and woolly north, and
is the fourth of its kind to set out on its
travels. The other three ’buses have become
decrepit in the course of 20,000 miles of
journeying about Victoria.
The dictators of fashion, being stumped
for new ideas, are searching the past and
have resurrected the wide fur stole. Early
birds are wearing them in London —half a
yard wide and two and a half yards long
cosily snuggled around their shoulders. To
many of us this will be sad news, for furs are
never cheap.
Nancy and Nell Webb stepped ashore last
week looking very fit after a prolonged
tour of Europe. In Paris they saw the con-
test for the Davis Cup.
Miss M. E. Wilkinson, editress of “Glean-
ings of Australian Verse,” and writer of the
play “Whither,” which Gregan . McMahon
put on in the Repertory Theatre, is creeping
back to health after a serious illness.
From “A.G.M.” in London: —
Douglas Loch, whom Melbourne Government House
habitues will remember as a very tall, shy, fair lad,
would not be recognised in the imposing figure which
he now presents as Lord Loch, the confident holder
of many important offices. These include Lord-in-
Waiting to the King and captain of the King’s
bodyguard. In succession to Sir William Gentle, he
has now been elected chairman of the Greyhound
Racing Association, which controls the White City
and various other important courses at Manchester,
Birmingham, Edinburgh and elsewhere. For years
and years, he frankly admits, he had hopes of one day
being able to afford to be Governor of Victoria, as
his father was; but he is getting too many ties
now to allow him to roam.


Murdoch s cd
Easter Wear
for Men
-5
mart , CAuthentic
and (Ready-
for-Service
Sac Suits
MURDOCH’S “MILL TO WEARER” SPECIAL.
Fashioned from splendid-quality Australian Tweeds in an
excellent range of serviceable Mid or Dark Grey shades.
These Men’s Ready - for - Service
Suits are unequalled for fit and appearance.
Graded sizes include Regular, Stout, Short-
stout, and Slender. Single - breasted Style.
Price
59'6
Superior Quality Tweeds, 70/- ; Cheviot Serges, 70/-.
S.B. Sac Suits for Men
Fashionably cut in smart, Grey Pinhead Worsteds. Roll
lapels, 2-button front. Coat, Vest, and Trousers ready for
immediate wear ;
Others at 00/- and 105/-
84'-
1
ix
m
'* * £<s
■Pi
*
Sports Suits
Murdoch s All-Wool Australian Tweed Two-
piece Sports Suits for Men. Coat pleated at
back.
effects,
wear
Made in up-tordate fancy
Ready for immediate
55'-
Sports Coats
Newest shades and patterns in
Men’s Tweed Sports Coats. Half-
belt at back. Three patch pockets
30'-
Others at 35/-, 37/6, and 50/-,
Cream Trousers
Men’s Cream Gabardine Washing Trousers.
Side, hip, and fob
pockets, belt loops, and side
straps
13'11
Superior Quality, 27/6 and 30/-.
Sports Shirts
lurdoch’s Renowned “Fugeen” (Regd.) and
Fugiluxe” Sports Shirts. Comfortably cut
and look just like Silk. “Fugeen,” 9/6 (3 for
28/-); “Fugiluxe,” 12/6 (3 for 36/6).
When you are in Sydney—
be sure to call in at Murdoch’s and leave
your measurements.
Golf Shirts
Excellent-quality Striped Zephyr Golf
Shirts. Neat blue, black, or helio
stripes on white ground. Collar to match
S'6
“Fugeen” (Regd.), 11/6: “Fugiluxe” (Regd.), 14/6
Felt Hats
Murdoch’s Famous “Kookaburra”
Hats in “Snap Brim,” “Prince,” and
“Nail Curl” shapes. All latest shades
.
O 7
-W.X
“Glencoe” Quality, 27/6 ; “Star” and “Al” Qualities, 37/6
“J. A. Murdoch,” 50/'
FREE!
Write to Desk R.
for a free copy of
our new Autumn
and Winter Cata-
logue for 1929.
«
Kindly address all letters to
Desk ‘ B.
Pay a visit to our well-
ippointed and hygienic Hair-
dressing Saloon charges
moderate.
pTt?
s
park & GEORGE SI SYDN EY
TUp , World's & Bous’ W&av Stove,
POSTAGE PAID
TO ...
YOUR DOOR


5*
KJ
0
$
GARTH
JONES
¥
3
i
*
>
Quality and beauty
are always fashionable
eauty belongs to all time. Quality endures
through the ages. The deep influence of
the two combined stands superior to the
whims of fickle fashion.
One buys an Omega Watch for a lifetime of
faithful service. One buys it also for its beauty.
And though fashion may change, the beauty and
quality of an Omega will be admired by coming
generations.
Never has there been such charm in a watch as
to-day. Never has beauty been so perpetuated. It
may well be imagined that so delightful a setting
has not lightly been disposed. Every Omega
Watch is the precise, accurate timepiece that its
fine appearance proclaims,
I
” Exact time for life
m
Everybody
needs a Light
The Great
Match
Substitute
POST FR6B
(Special Trade
terms)
2s.
MOD’S AGENCY, BRISBANE
Estab 1915 (Dept 3)
Get the News of
All Australia'
FOR
Your Week-end Beading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
X
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess Insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
ertrety
In Days of Old
White hair was
all the vogue.
In modern days
grey or white
hair is consid-
ered a sign of
approaching
age.
It is NOT “THE
THING."
All traces of Grey can readily be removed
by an application of
Dr. Allen’s (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Sold at all Chemists and Stores.
Harmless, easy
to apply, can-
not be detected
Australian Agents:
DUERDIN AND
SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street,
Melbourne.
k
FOR THAT UNEXPECTED:. VISITOR
CRAB
CAPTAIN
SPECIALLY SELECTED
CLAW MEAT
FREE
COLOURED RECIPEBOOK FROM VOUR GROCER
“THE AGE ”
Established 185 If.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their atten-
tion that which is required in their home or
business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial newspaper,
with an atmosphere of individual and personal
appeal.
Price lid.- per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes Over 1,000,000 Advertise-
ments Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
advertising Service Agents in all States or —
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
The GCXSAEE
LINE o/BEAUiy
This combination of striped batiste, gives the
fashionable, unbroken line to the silhouette.
When opened it reveals a supporting inner
belt, which clasps in front, and shows elastic
adjustments at the sides. The outer part of
this foundation features light,fulllengthbones
at the back.
NEW CHARM
ECE TEE
MODERNS
In the new groups of Gossards, fash-
ionable moderns are finding a new
charm. Quick to put on, astonishingly
light in weight, these new foundation
designs support the figure with such
ease that you are unconscious of their
presence. Girdles, hookarounds, sol-
itaires, combinations and brassieres
by Gossard all follow with precision
the fashion edicts of Paris.
NEW
/LENDER
LINES
Larger figures will find new comfort
and slenderizing lines in the latest
Gossard designs. Note the new hip
line on this brassiere, which comes
well down over the top of the corset,
and terminates in a hose supporter.
It shows a special diaphragm rein-
forcement, and is made of lovely
striped satin tricot.
From fashion port to fashion port
Gossard artist-designers travel, study-
ing the needs of certain kinds of sup-
porting garments for certain kinds of
wear —the need of a guiding support
in youth, the necessity of a more defi-
nite figure aid as the figure matures.
No other garments compare with
Gossards —their superb individual
designing, their perfect ability to
blend figure and frock, their remark-
able supporting, caressing qualities.
The
Canadian H. W. Gossard
Co., Ltd.
114-120 Castlereagh Street
SYDNEY, N. S. W.
GOSSARDSARE MADE WITHIN
THE EMPIRE


■
m
■rags
5K2i
Modest Pride
the poorest gen-
will not take
tea from heavy, unbeautiful
cups. Her tea service stands
for caste not cost —light, deli-
cate, comely. Shelley Tea
Services arq of varied prices
but of one quality: English
Bone China and Shelley
craftsmanship unite to ensure
this. The name of Shelley is
on every piece. There is a pat-
tern to please every lady’s taste
Ask
TO SEE THE
SHELLEY
LATEST
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
* China
Nursery Ware
Ly Lucie Attweu
oHilda Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
OBTAINING
i
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: HIT THE DECK.
ROYAL: THE WRECKER,
CRITERION: YOUNG WOODLEY.
PALACE: WHITE COLLARS.
WORLD’S GRE ATE ST WOMAN
VIOLINIST,
ERICA MORINI
ERICA MORINI
ERICA MORINI
The wonderful Viennese genius.
“It is no idle claim that she is the greatest
living woman violinist.” —London Daily Sketch.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Direction E. J. CARROLL.
SATURDAY, MARCH 30; also APRIL 4, 6 and 9.
Preliminary Rooking at Nicholsons’ Box Office.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT SONG.
ROYAL:
MARGARET BANNERMAN in
THE MARIONETTES.
MEW COMEDY THEATRE,
MELBOURNE. #
RUTH NUGENT and ALLAN BUNCE in
APPLESAUCE.
ING ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LEON GORDON in
THE FLYING SQUAD.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
* 1 MELBOURNE.
WILLIAM BOYD and JACQUELINE LOGAN in
THE COP.
ALSO
WARNER BAXTER in
THE DANGER STREET.
Eat Anything
Without Upset
We Mean You Really Can !
Eat what you like—provided you take three tablets
of Para-Pepsin with it! Result: No pain! Just
stomach peace, and unaccustomed energy. Para-
Pepsin stops only the excess acid, and thus stops
pain without stopping digestion as an anti-acid may.
Try Para-Pepsin and know this genuine relief!
Costa 2/-; never disappoints. Chemists sell it.
Personal.
A LEXANDER McNEIL PROCTOR, late
of Number 3 Marathon Avenue, Darling
Point, Sydney, in the year 1923, will hear
of something to his advantage if he com-
municates with JAMES W. ABIGAIjL AND
CO. JAMES YOUNG. Solicitors, Lyndhurst
Chambers, 84 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
ANY knowing the whereabouts of WIL-
LIAM BASSETT, late of Maryborough,
Victoria, please ask him. to communicate
with his sister Mary, 38 Fawkner Street,
South Yarra, Victoria. -Matter urgent.
Legal Notices.
Tn the supr e m e court of
1 NEW ZEALAND.
TARANAKI IHSTRICT.
In Divorce No. 333.
TO RICHARD JAMES MATTHEWS
formerly of Western port Victoria but
whose whereabouts are now unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand at New Plymouth citing you to
appear and answer the Petition of Rose
Matthews of Kaponga Taranaki Married
Woman wherein she prays for a dissolution
of her marriage with you on the ground of
desertion and such citation intimates /that
in default of your so doing the Court will
proceed to hear the said Petition and to
pronounce sentence therein notwithstanding
your absence NOW THEREFORE TAKE
NOTICE THAT for the purpose aforesaid
you are within forty days after the date
of this publication to attend in person or by
your Solicitor at the Supreme Court Office
at New Plymouth and there to enter an
appearance without which you will not be
allowed to address the Court at any stage
of the proceedings.
A copy of the said Citation and Petition
will be supplied to you on your applying
for the same at the Supreme Court Office
at New Plymouth.
DATED this seventh day of March, 1929.
H. GILMORE SMITH,
Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particu-
larly requested to forward to him the fore-
going advertisement.
Patrick O’Dea, of Hawera, is the Solicitor
for the Petitioner, whose address for service.-
is at the office of Messrs. Wilson, Freeman
and Sheat, Solicitors, Egmont Street, New
Plymouth.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 TASMANIA.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO SAMUEL EDWARD SEELEY formerly
of Launceston in Tasmania Seaman
WHEREAS a citation has issued out of
this Honor-able Court citing you to appear
and answer the Petition of Gordon Roy
Joseph Turner praying for a dissolution of
liis marriage with Daisy Josephine Turner
on the ground of her adultery with you
TAKE NOTICE that unless on or before the
thirteenth day of April next you cause an
appearance to be entered in the Registry of
the said Court at Hobart to answer the
said Petition the Court will proceed to hear
and determine the said charge your absence
notwithstanding.
DATED this seventh day of March, one
thousand nine hundred and twenty nine.
R. G. BINGHAM,
Deputy Registrar of the Supreme Court
of Tasmania.
FOR ALL SPORT
BUY
THE SPORTING GLOBE
The Leading Australian Authority with the largesl
staff of Sporting Experts and Special Representatives
in all States. The staff includes: —
“MUSKET” The Turf
“BAIL” Cricket
W. S. SHARLAND Football
PAT O’HARA WOOD ... Tennis
J. J. MAHER , .... Cycling
J. M. DILLON Golf
A. L. DOBBIE ... Rowing
TOM MORLEY Coursing
MAURIE COLLINS Bowls
11. C. BROOKE Yachting
New South Wales edition available
every Thursday, price 3d.
GUYATT'S
RESPIRATORS
Dust, fumes,
acids, paint and
flying embers,
are a menace to your
health. Protect the
throat and lungs with
a Guyatt Respirator.
The type illustrated
13/6 post free any-
where.
Others 4/6, 10/6,17/6.
w*
Dept. B. GUYATT & CO.
257 a George Street, Sydney.
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern Is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The foundation-stone of the Mt. Yokine
golf club house was laid the other day.
Virgin bush of 18 months ago has been
transformed into half-grown greens and fair-
ways laid out by expert Alec Russell. A. C.
Kendall, the club’s president, announced that
the links would be ready for play by July.
Robert McMillan, who performed the masonic
duties, was handed a silver trowel as a
memento and his lady received a bouquet at
the hands of Mrs. Kendall.
The William Tiveys handed their youngest
chick Moyra into the keeping of John Marco
in the lofty quiet of St. George’s Cathedral.
The bride smiled above a bouquet of deep
red roses and maidenliair-fern in a gown
of navy romaine, stitched about the waist in
embroideries of russet, gold and black. Simi-
lar tonings adorned one side of her small
red felt hat. Phyllis Robertson attended in
an ensemble of pigeon-grey. The cake was
cut at the Esplanade, and the bridal couple,
who will live abroad, caught the Otranto,
en route for Paris and London, later in the
afternoon.
Padre Caton lately spoke a blessing at
South Perth over the heads of Dr. Hilda
Kershaw, of Brookton, and Charlie Snook.
The bride chose a three-piece model of
fawn charmeuse shot with gold, footwear to
match and a hat of sisal straw. Dr. Wini-
fred Windmill ‘maided in white georgette.
The ’groom is a son of Mrs. AValter Mar-
shall. Toasts were honored at Dr. Wind-
mill’s home.
Joan Hodge kept a tryst with Rex Norrie
one recent evening at Christ Church, Clare-
mont. The bridal gown was of white chiffon,
tucked and flared, and cut with a lengthy
pointed skirt. The train was of exquisitely
fine lace lined with white georgette and the
veil a white mesh of tulle. Joan Good
’maided in shell-pink georgete, dipping at
one side and agleam with platinum beads.
Bride’s sister Mrs. Stevenson was matron
of honor in delphinium-blue with a
beaded corsage and Anted skirt. Felt hats
of the exact color of their frocks were worn
by both attendants. Small Joan Stevenson
and Hilary Kearney resembled blossoms
blown from a peach tree in fluffy pink or-
gandies and wreaths of flowers in their hair.
A marquee on the lawn of Mrs. Hodge’s
home in Claremont saw the feasting.
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Sir John Goodwin went to Enoggera and
took the salute after church parade from
the citizen soldiery. During the week a
concert was given at the camp and jokes,
new and old, especially those reflecting on
the ways of sergeant-majors, received raptur-
ous applause. His Ex. handed out medals for
long and meritorious service, and Archbishop
Sharp made some improving remarks to the
lads in khaki.
This dark-
haired maiden
is Alice Marie,
elder daughtei
of the A. G.
C. Hawthorns,
o f Brisbane,
whose engage-
ment to Don-
ald Hill Smith,
of Eden
Downs, Dart-
mouth, Queens-
-land, second
son of the
Walter Smiths,
of Yarlumba,
Angas ton,
South Austra-
lia, has been
recently an-
nounced. Her
sister, Dorothy
Hawthorn, i s
one of the pil-
lars of the Girl Guides’ organisation.
Lieut. Galfrey Gataker, of the Canberra,
and his wife gave a party at Clovelly, North-
gate, the hostess wearing floral taffetas. The
verandahs were enclosed with flags for
dancing and hung with foliage. Roses and
African daisies decked the supper tables.
Amongst the dancers were Royale Journeaux,
Elwyn Morgan, Esme Sliand and Jacqueline
Carter.
Mrs. T. W. Crawford, w r ife of the Senator,
was guest of honor at a farewell party at
the Women’s Club prior to leaving with her
daughter for a holiday in England and Paris.
Roses and African daisies decked the rooms
and there was a big roll-up of guests, in-
cluding Mrs. Highfield. Mrs. McGowan, Mrs.
Jarrold. Mrs. Jones. Mrs. M. Forrest. Mrs.
Brett, Miss Ogg, Miss Crawford and Miss
Patterson. Mrs. Crawford left in the Stras-
bourg.
The first wedding in St. Peter’s Hall,
Bribie Island, was a Campbell clan affair.
Cecil Robert Campbell married Rose Mar-
garet Campbell, and Minor Canon Campbell,
of St. John’s Cathedral, forged the links.
For 50 years the families of bride and bride-
groom have lived in the Moreton Bay dis-
trict. White crepe de Chine frocked the bride
and orange-blossoms fastened the veil.
Amelia Campbell, in pink, ’maided. The
wedding breakfast was at the home of the
bride’s parents and. in the evening, there was
a dance in the hall. The building committee
of St. Peter’s gave the bride an ivory-bound
prayer-book.
Beth, only daughter of the C. J. Dobbies.
of Balmoral, met Eric Bruce Richmond, of
the Rockhampton clan, at the Ann-street
kirk the other day. and emerged as Mrs.
Richmond. The feasting was at the Jenolan
Cafe, which was decorated with roses and
African daisies.
Aboard the Ormonde on the way to Leipzig
to put a professional finish on unusual pian-
istic ability is Audrey, daughter of the A. B.
Andersons, of New Farm. She is acting on
the advice of that youthful genius Shura
Cherkassky, and is only just out of her teens,
a pretty brunette with hosts of friends. Dr
and Mrs. Eustace Russell and Freda, only
daughter of the late Dr. and Mrs. C. Stewart,
are other Queensland folk aboard the liner,
bound for Europe.
There is talk of moving the Brisbane Art
Gallery (yes, we have one) to the Exhibition
Concert Hall. That doesn’t excite anyone, but
we would like to hear of the purchase of
some new pictures.
TASMANIA.
H'obart.
The T.A.J.C. autumn meeting at Elwick
was blessed by glorious weather, but the
attendance was not up to expectations. His
Ex. and a party were there, and were enter-
tained at tea by the committee. Mrs. G. F.
Hyde was all in honey-beige tints, with a
blue velour liat.®Mrs. Tom Lyons wore black
supple satin and big black hat, and Mrs.
Cox-Taylor sported dull blues and pinks in
ciApe de Chine. Mrs. Kay (Melbourne) was
a smart figure in a face-cloth wrap-coat of
black with pale fox collar and cuffs. A good
many naval folk rolled up with wives and
friends. The country was very thinly repre-
sented.
By way of a send-off to the fleet, there
was a military tattoo at the North Hobart
oval. In spite of a chilly wind and threaten-
ing showers about 5000 people were there.
His Ex.’s party included Rear-Admiral Hyde
and his bride. Commandant and Mrs. Cox-
Taylor and Mayor and Mayoress Wignall.
Massed bands made music, and the “Last
Post’’ was the signal for home and bed.
His Ex. opened the Art Society’s show in
the new rooms at the Continental. Hans
Heysen and S. Ure Smith were among the
private viewei's. Artist H'era Roberts, who
has been visiting Port Arthur and Fern-
tree, was another mainland visitor.
Here is an addition to the brood of Tassy
nightingales, Ruby Higgins, who has been
selected by the
committee of
the Artists’
Appeal Fund
to continue the
training of her
soprano voice
at Mclb. Uni.
Con. She has
sung to Mary
Campbell and
Fritz Hart,
who strongly
advised her to
cultivate her
talent. Percy
Grainger was
also enthusias-
tic over the
quality of her
voice" when she
sang before
him. Launces-
ton music-
lovers turned
up in force at the National Theatre to give
her a good send-off at her concert.
Joyce, only chick of Mrs. and the late
H. K. Oldmeadow, clad her tall slimness in
beige lace and georgette and topped it with
a big picture hat on the occasion of her wed-
ding with William Bede Reynolds, of Pier-
son’s Point, at Claremont Winifred Crans-
wick ’maided in beige lace over blue and a
small beige hat. Mrs. Oldmeadow enter-
tained at Rosoneath, Austin’s Ferry, after
the knot was tied.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Mrs. Lavington Bonython’s good-bye party
for her mother and Ada Bonython fell on as
vile a day as could be imagined—a sudden
upward leap of the thermometer, north wind,
dust, and the town full of sifiokc from the
worst buslifires the hills have seen for ages.
The Mount Lofty-road from Glen Osmond
up was ablaze both sides, and more than
one would-be guest from the hills telephoned
that it was impassable. While his wife was
entertaining, the Mayor was fire-fighting, for
both his own and Langdon Bonython’s pro-
perties were threatened. The hills were swept
bare, from Glen Osmond to Mount Lofty
summit, where Staw'ell school pupils lent a
hand, carrying drinks to the beaters and
doing some beating themselves. At night the
whole length of the ranges was aglow, the
flames leaping high as trees caught and fell,
and the smoke drifted far enough to send
even beach-dwellers sniffing in search of fire
in their back-yards.
That, howeyer, is not the party, which
was all cool rooms, early autumn flowers and
smart frocking. The hostess w r as in draped
black georgette with a touch of steel to hint
at the waist-line; her sister-in-law, Mrs.
Angas Parsons, chose vellum-tinted marocain ;
and Ada Bonython, who sails in the Orford,
sported bois-de-rose georgette.
The revival of “Lochinvar” showed it to
far better advantage than the initial per-
formance. The honors of the cast fell to
Stella Sobels, Helene Graeme, Mostyn Skin-
ner and Harold Denton. Mrs. Lavington
Bonython, who headed the committee that ran
the business side of the show for charities,
was in the vice-regal box with the Hore-
Ruthvens. Mrs. _R. K. Wood and Mrs.
Stanley Verco headed the sub-committee.
Richard Hawker and his son (also a Dick
and well over six feet) are here for a week
or so after two years’ oversea travel. Hawker
pere, who is a keen and noted shot, leased
various shootings in Scotland, and his son
has been trying his luck with tigers in
Assam.
The departure of Mrs. Charles Hayward
oversea robs Girl Guides of their State pre-
sident. She was the guest of the executive
committee at lunch a day or two before she
left. Mrs. Ernest Tolley and her daughter
Mrs. de Bavay, are also sailing north.
The Hunt Club has had its annual meet-
ing, at which it voted E. A. Brooks into the
presidential chair vacated by Frank Whyte
who is off to England. There is a member-
ship of 490 and a deficiency for the year of
over £3OO.


s
K
to
CJ
<o>
=4=
■L
r
V.
HSUN
3
»i
UJ
ym
OS'
'‘Si
I
&
Convincing’ Thousands that Tuxury is
not Necessarily High Priced
SINCE tlie introduction of the new
Nash “400”, thousands have discov-
ered that they would rather own this
motor car than others more expensive.
They find in it all the best features of
the costliest cars centralized chassis
lubrication, hydraulic shock absorbers,
and the like.
They find it the easiest steering motor
car they ever have handled.
They like its trim, modern, low-swung
lines—and particularly its Twin-Ignition
performance.
Luxury and luxurious performance are not
necessarily high priced—Nashhas achieved
them in the new and finer Nash “400.'*
•
Standard Six from .
Special Six from
Advanced Six from.
Tourers.
£375
£4Bo
. £63o*
body.
Sedans.
£4so*
£565*
£62o*
Distributors for New South Wales:
WILLSFORD, LTD.,
132-134 Phillip Street,
SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W2291 (5 lines).
Distributors for Victoria and Tasmania
RICKARDS BROS. PTY., LTD.,
567-573 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
’Phone: F 3 1 14.
Distributors for Queensland:
PEELS, LTD.,
407-431 Stanley Street,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
’Phone: J 1561.
Distributors for South Australia:
AUTOCARS, LTD.,
58-72 Flinders Street,
ADELAIDE.
'Phone: Central 5500*
Distributors for West Australia:
ERIC MADDREN MOTORS, LTD.,
996 Hay Street,
PERTH.
'Phones: 85610, B 7634.


COMMONWEALTH LOAN
INTEREST 5£ PER CENT. FOR 10 YEARS.
Persons having either small or large sums available for investment should remember that—
Idle money means waste; the money should be immediately invested.
There is no safer investment than Commonwealth Loans.
Either Stock or Bonds can be purchased, and the purchaser can sell them at any time on the Stock Exchange, if he so desires.
The full amount of the subscription can be paid at the time of application; or a deposit of only 10 per cent, need be made
and the balance paid at any time up to June 4, 1 929.
Interest is free of STATE INCOME TAX, and runs from the date of lodgment of money.
Full particulars from—
BANKS, SAVINGS BANKS, MONEY ORDER POST OFFICES and MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES.
Commonwealth Treasury,
Canberra.
EARLE PAGE,
Treasurer.
the skies when nature was in her fiercest
mood, when drought sat upon the Riverina
plains, when the country lay scorched. Day
after day he had seen a blue sky above
him, and a red floor beneath his horse’s
hoofs, and he had turned in thought to
pictures of the luscious vineyards, the green-
leaved orange and lemon trees, the soft,
watered earth of the irrigation settlements
—and so invariably and inevitably to
thoughts of the incomparable Betty.
Such was the man to whom the going
of Betty mattered most. She and he had
known one another from their first school-
daj r s. In his mind they had belonged
to one another. It had just happened
so. and that was all. But since they
had both grown up it seemed to Jack that
the position between them was not quite
the same. No one troubled much about
Betty when she was a schoolgirl, but quite
a number of young fellows were seeking
now to win her smiles. He was not un-
reasonable about it—he did not wonder
that he had rivals. But this going to
Melbourne was different and more than he
could suffer in silence. He had adored
Betty without words, but now sho must
know that he expected to marry her. What,
was he buying an orchard for, and a good
house, if he did not want to “come in”
from the Backblocks,- and settle down?
And who could there be in his house, as
its mistress, except Betty? Jack’s mind was
made up when he swung himself into the
saddle and touched the roan horse lightly
with his heels.
Betty felt that Jack would come into
town to say g6od-bye to her. After their
greeting he said:
“I suppose when you get among your
fine friends in Melbourne”
“Now, Jack!” she cut in, “none of that.
You will not flatter me if you suggest
that I’ll forget you!”
“Betty, you mustn’t forget me. I
couldn’t stand it. Sweetheart, I have loved
you since you were so high. You have
been always my Betty; and now you are
a woman. I love you—well, I cannot say
how much, but it’s a man’s big love. I
had to tell you that before you went. I
don’t know those folks down there, but—
but I know my Betty, and she won’t forget
her bushman waiting for her. If she does,
my , Betty’s dead, and then other things
won’t matter much. I’m not much at saying
things, Betty, and it may seem funny my
having a lump in my throat, but—but”
He circled his arm around Betty, and
kissed her gently on her lips, raised to meet
his. Her eyes were misty with happiness.
And so, without words, Betty pledged
herself.
* * * *
The Clintons had a large circle of friends;
they were eminently sociable-people if their
visitors were content to take them as they
were. Friends were always dropping in—
for a chat, to hear Madge Clinton play,
for a song—and so pleasant impromptu
evenings were spent.
The family was excited at the prospect
of Betty taking up her abode with them.
Betty would, of course, have her visits
home, but she was, the Clinton girls
decided, to become one of themselves, and
they were delighted to have her. *
Residence in the Clinton family, rich in
character and personality, could not help
having an effect upon Betty’s outlook, while
she in her turn, fresh from the open coun-
try, was bringing to the suburban home
some of her broader vision.
Among the Clintons’ visitors was Edward
Felspar, an artist. When Felspar felt in
need of a mental stimulant he dropped in
to have a chat and a smoke with Clinton,
who was always pleased to see the young
man because he was the rare bird who took
his work seriously, and liked to talk about
it.
Naturally, later, Mrs. Clinton’s frequent
letters to her sister concerning Edward
Felspar and his evident admiration for
Betty were of moment to Mrs. Calcroft,
who had a perfect trust in her sister’s
judgment. The reports Mrs. Clinton sent
to Mildura concerning the young artist
were cautious but favorable. She pointed
out that, while Felspar’s attentions to Betty
did not appear to be distasteful, Betty was
far too sensible a girl to do anything' rash.
“In fact,” Mrs. Clinton added, “Betty takes
more after me than you, her mother, in
that respect. You remember, Vic., that
James did not find it so easy to marry
me as he would have liked.”
When Mrs. Calcroft read those words she
gave a good-natured sniff, though she would
not for worlds have let her younger sister
know that she had done it. She agreed
that it would be well for her to make a
flying visit to Melbourne, and also with
Mrs. Clinton’s proposal that she should con-
trive, in an unobtrusive way, a meeting
with Felspar.
Calcroft himself knew something of the
inquisitorial capacities of his wife. The
decision as to Felspar’s eligibility as a lover
and as a prospective husband of Betty he
was content to leave with his wife and
Betty—especially Betty. He smiled to him-
self when he thought of Betty allowing her
love affairs to be arranged by a pair of
match-making mothers. Betty was a bush
girl, and the river home-sickness was in her
blood. Sooner or later the river would call
to her; of that he was sure—as sure as he
was that Jack Carew had made a good
bargain when he bought that vineyard and
orchard of the Stevensons! He liked Jack
Carew, and had privately noted Betty's
eyes brighten when he said that she would
be a lucky girl whom Jack asked to marry.
Edward Felspar’s people had what Subur-
bia vaguely referred to as “money.” He
had a refined personality, and was always
well groomed. Evidently his beard was
of strong growth, for, though he was scru-
pulous in keeping himself closely shaved,
his chin and jaws showed always a dark
smudge. Tall of stature, he carried him-
self with an air of distinction. He spoke
with a rich, cultured voice. The impres-
sion he left was that of a man who was
more at home in a room of pictures, Per-
sian rugs and bric-a-brac than of an Austra-
lian who could rough it in the bush and find
an appetite for damper and a billy of tea.
Felspar’s face reflected his impulsive
nature. He had spent two years in Paris
engaged in art studies. During that time
he had made a good many mistakes, but
the most serious one was to marry Lisette
Delas, an artist’s model. He was intro-
duced to her while idling an hour away,
turning over books exposed on the stalls
that line the banks of the Seine. It
was not until he had fallen in love with
Betty Calcroft that his doings in Paris
accused him. Up to that time he had
avoided looking backward. But now
thoughts of his past life were continually
in his mind. Reproachful memories, came
from a house situated almost within the
shadows of the Sacre Coeur Church. Spec-
tres stalked from the Latin Quarter, and
from a dozen cabarets, where every woman
was friendly and wanted a drink.
Felspar assured himself many times that
Lisette Delas Felspar was buried in a
French pauper’s grave in Pere Lachaise.
The story of that disastrous episode of his
life in Paris had not, he thanked Heaven,
found its way to Melbourne. Since he had
met Betty Calcroft the thought that he
would sooner or later have to make a con-
fession to her, if his love-making succeeded,
was disturbing.
Lisette Delas, an artists’ model and some-
time girl of the boulevards, had helped Fel-
spar to spend inside twelve months the
money he had put by for his two years’
art studies. She was more than surprised,
she was distressed, when she had then
found out that he was not the rich man she
had supposed him to be. “I thought you
were rich, or else, la! la! there was no need
to marry. Non! Non! You deceived me,”
she kept saying.
One afternoon when he went to their
apartments after being away during the
morning he found a note pinned to a bed
pillow:
Dear boy, —7 leave you. Do riot grieve.
There are others. I leave the room tidy.
We loved well. We part jriends, oui!
Marriage is a droll adventure! Merci!
Lisette.
Felspar bit his lip, but he stood up to
it without whining. He made no effort to
recall his wife. The night following the
day she left him she was twirling in gauzy
draperies in a mad dance at a cabaret. In
a month she was in the vortex of the old
life, and a striking figure in some scan-
dalous eccentricities of an artists’ ball.
Lisette was coquette enough to take what
money there was in the studio and leave
Felspar stranded. In his distress an unex-
pected friend came, in the husband of the
concierge of the house where he had his
studio and rooms. Jules Dejazet was an
old man with a shock of white hair, gruff
and grizzled; but from the day Felspar
came to the house Jules had a liking for
the young, tall, dark Australian, who, after
the manner of his countrymen, knew how
to bestow a princefy gratuity with the air
of giving a trifle. Tips were the quickest
way to one side of Jules’s nature; but he
had another side.
A shoemaker by trade, he had a cobbler’s
stall in the courtyard of the house, and so
he earned some money apart from what
his wife, the concierge, was paid. When
he proposed to lend a trifle to Felspar until
a remittance should arrive, Madame
Dejazet objected, and made such a clatter
that Jules said the good woman must have
her way; nevertheless the money was lent
—very wonderfully he eluded his wife’s
vigilance. A dear old fellow Jules, who had
not, in his seventy years or more, been
thirty miles from Paris. But Paris he knew,
and the sights therein. His favorite visit
on Sundays was to the Morgue, which lies
almost within the shadow of the Cathedral
of Notre Dame. He knew most of what
there was to know, too, about Felspar’s
marriage—how it afforded a day’s laughter
in Montmartre, and then made way for
other “droll” marriage adventures.
When Felspar returned to Australia his
link with Paris was formed by his corres-
pondence with Jules, and he was indebted
to the old cobbler for what he knew of the
subsequent doings of his wife. Her admirer
tired of her. She went into residence in
the vicinity of Notre Dame de Lorette.
Later, Jules wrote to Felspar that Lisette
was missing from her haunts, and, later still,
that an unknown body had been fished out
of the Seine, and that he, Jules, moved by
curiosity, had gone to the Morgue and
seen the remains. In the water-sodden
purse that had been found in the pocket
of a dress on the corpse was a cameo brooch
Francois Neigre.
with a carving of dancing fauns. Thai
brooch Jules remembered as one he had
seen Lisette wearing. To the authorities
he had then identified the body as that
of Lisette Delas, wife of an Austra-
lian art student whom he named Edward
Felspar; he also identified the brooch with
the dancing fauns carved upon it, which he
had reason to think was given to Lisette by
her husband. The authorities were satis-
fied with the old man’s identification. The
police asked Jules what his age was, and
complimented him on having such a clear
memory at the age of seventy-five.
The corpse, Jules wrote to Felspar, had
been officially entered in the dismal records
of the Paris morgue as that of Lisette Delas
Felspar, and he had paid twenty-five francs
to a notary to have an official copy made
of that record, which he had “the great
pleasure” of sending.
Felspar read the official copy of the regis-
tration of the death of Lisette Delas Fel-
spar, found in the Seine, with a feeling of
unaccountable sadness. Old Jules’s “plea-
sure,” so expressed, jarred on Felspar’s feel-
ings. After all, the woman had been for a
hectic season his wife. His name was linked
with hers on the death certificate. No, he
could not rejoice. Poor Lisette, the Butter-
fly!
“Marriage,” she had written (how well
he remembered the words!), “is a droll
adventure.” What was'she finding death?
Yet he was free, thank God! With inex-
pressible relief he put the death certificate
away, and in doing so believed that he had
heard the last of his marriage k>lly in Paris.
He Avrote thanking Jules, and enclosing a
douceur; but he never heard from the old
man that he had received either the money
or the letter.
Chapter VII.
Felspar, on his return to Australia, set
up a studio not far from a fruitshop kept
by one Antonio Carducci; his daughter
Marie attended to the shop, at times
assisted by her mother. Carducci himself
was somewhat elusive. For some weeks in
succession he would be in the shop, and
then suddenly he would be missing.
Felspar, whose metier was the figure and
figure composition, felt the subtle magnet-
ism of Marie. His fruit-buying was some-
times made an excuse for having a merry
chat with the fascinating Italian girl. He
came to know the Carduccis, and was some-
what of a favorite with madame, since
he wag always pleased to talk to her of
beautiful Paris, and to tell her how Paris
remained a charming memory to him, ever
coaxing him to return to her to lay his
homage at her feet.
“Ah oui!” Mrs. Carducci would reply.
And mentally, as she said so, she looked
beyond the fruitshop in Melbourne, across
the wide, grey seas, to the market stalls in
the Rue de la Roquette.
Felspar often heard the strains of Car-
ducci’s thread-Avorn tune of “Funiculi,
Funicula!” coming from a room at the back
of the shop. As an artist he Avas not long
in recognising that the father as well as
the daughter would serve as an excellent
model if he could arrange for them to pose
for him. The idea germinated, and soon
he persuaded both to do as he Avished. So
Antonio Carducci and his daughter became
frequent A r isitors to Felspar’s studio, where
they posed for the figures in the picture
Avhich Felspar called “Marketing in Paris.”
Predatory by instinct, Carducci sensed
that Felspar had money as surely as a
hungry rat smells out a fat cheese; and
having smelt it, he lost no time in schem-
ing to get some of it. The fees paid to
him and his daughter were only valued for
the association they promoted betAveen him
and the artist. His thoughts turned first
to Marie; surely she might compromise
Felspar. If she could be induced to do so,
he knew how to use his advantage. But
he knew that Marie would not do anything
Avithout her mother’s approval; and that
made things difficult. He had spoken to
Marie, and she had told him that Felspar
always treated her Avith respect. But—wait.
He knew the way of artists Avith beautiful
models. Felspar would make love to her;
and then there would be a reckoning.
Among Australian artists there is a bond
of friendship that opens up the way to
occasional inter-State visits. They share
a hundred congenial interests, for the gossip
of studios is a color tube that is never
squeezed dry. In Melbourne they preserve
their sense of unity by frequenting Danoli’s
eating-house. There everybody knows
everybody else. There, also, literary men,
and others who hang on the skirts of art,
foregather and eat smoked sardines on toast.
The ladies of the circle are quite distinctive.
If you are not knoAvn at Danoli’s, it is quite
plain that you do not belong to the artistic
and literary life of Melbourne.
Betty Avent there once or twice, but the
croAvded rooms, the constant chatter and the
clouds of smoke did not appeal to her. One
hour on the Murray, to inhale the frag-
rance of the gum-trees, to enjoy the sight
of the grape-laden vines and the citrus
trees gemmed Avith fruit, was worth to her
nights of such an artificial existence.
Carducci sometimes went to Danoli’s to
have a talk, in patois, with the proprietor.
It Ayas Avhile there he heard it whispered
that Felspar’s picture, “Marketing in Paris,”
Avas likely to be the most-admired picture
at the forthcoming Victorian Artists’ Show.
Some Sydney painters were the guests of
Felspar at Danoli’s, a fact Carducci learnt
from one of the waiters. After the
artists had dined and wined and listened to
the music of Danoli’s orchestra while
(Continued on page 53.)


•t
l
jL-Hl"' »«t».
id
Jim i
Sydney’s Mighty Bridge
—and “Macson Rivets
A great undertaking; worthy of the great City
and a great Nation.
Interwoven in the enthralling stpry of this
gigantic structure are the interesting facts
about its Australian-made “Macson” Rivets.
Five million are required, totalling about
3200 tons. Some are nearly 15 inches long.
Hydraulic Riveters exerting pressures up to
80 tons are used.
Because of the tremendous strains to be
withstood, every single rivet in that enormous
quantity must be of the highest quality. No
suspicion of “weak links” can be allowed in
the huge edifice.
Each consignment of rivets is subjected to
severe tests before being accepted from us.
These tests only serve to emphasise again and again
the remarkable strength of “Macson” Rivets. High
quality rivets, of various types and sizes, are supplied
to dockyards, building contractors, railways and other
important public works, and are manufactured at our
Bolt and Nut Factory at Richmond.
“A BOOKLET FREE!”
We have a limited number of copies of a very handy
booklet, which give? interesting information about the
Bridge. It contains illustrations on art paper and
much useful data.
A copy will be sent post free on request. Call or write
now.
Also available is our 1929 General Catalogue.
Proprietary Limited
ESTABLISHED 1860.
51-65 Bathurst Street, Sydney
582-592 Collins Street, Melbourne
116-130 Waymouth Street, Adelaide
Learn to
DRAW!
IT GIVES PLEASURE
AND BRINGS PROFIT.
You can learn to make effective
original drawings in a short period
under the
ertrety
WESTON POSTAL COURSE OF DRAWING
Mr. HARRY J. WESTON, the well-known Commercial Artist, conducts this School
personally, and every Student receives personal tuition.
Big salaries await successful students in the field of Art! Why not learn all about
this profitable hobby ?
Take the first step to-day. Send your name and address for Mr. Weston’s booklet
entitled “THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN,’’which tells all about the course, fees, etc.,
and gives examples of the lessons.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING
77 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond Street, Sydney.
A FINE PIECE OF ARTISTIC PLAITING
ertrety
THE “APEX” WHIP
This beautiful example of Australian
craftsmanship is carried out in two colors,
with a neat swastika design on both handle
and thong. The thong is Bft. long, 20-
plait, with lifelike fall.
PRICE, 78(6 COMPLETE.
For 2/6 extra we will plait up to four
initials in the handle.
K’BURRA STOCKWHIPS
FOR EVERYDAY HARD WEAR
Kangaroo
Thongs.
12-plait
16-plait
20-plait
HANDLES TO MATCH.
19/-; 32-plait, 22/-.
right through with inside
plaited belly.
9ft.
27/6
31/6
38/6
16-plait, 17/-; 24-plait.
Loaded for 9ft. thongs, 1/6
more.
FREIGHT FREE FOR CASH.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, LTD 395 George St., Sydney.


i
The CORDOVA £65
Th e enjoyment of any
radio set depends on the
speaker, and the finest set
is better with a Magnavox
Dynamic. Full, rich tones,
great volume, undistorted.
ASK YOUR DEALER TO
DEMONSTRATE THE
MAGNAVOX
nvNAMIC SPEAKER
Australian Patent
No. 7225.
aniiiiifllllll
NOW NEATLY CASED at same price!
A strongly-made grained-leather case is now provided with every Plum
Razor, at no increase in cost. With its blade set to perfection—guaran-
teed and kept in order for two years free—the Plum Razor shaves cleanly,
easily, quickly—leaves the most delicate skin smooth and comfortable.
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 ~
Real Ivory Handle 21/- „
Satin-lined double case tree with pair.
7-day Sets—7 Razors in Case.
Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
Post free to any address.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
F.P.L.-l •
Royal Easter Show,
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY,
PROGRAMME.
TUESDAY, 26th MARCH —JUDGING OF CATTLE (all
breeds).
WEDNESDAY, 27th MARCH —Judging of Horses, Poultry,
Pigeons, Agriculture and
Dairy Produce.
THURSDAY, 28th MARCH (Day and Night)—Attractive Ring Events, Grand
Parade of Cattle. Official
Opening of Show by His Ex-
cellency the State Governor
at 3.30 p.m.
FRIDAY, 29th MARCH
SATURDAY, 30th MARCH (Day and Night)
MONDAY, Ist APRIL (Day and Night)
TUESDAY, 2nd APRIL
WEDNESDAY, 3rd APRIL (Day and Night)
THURSDAY, 4th APRIL
FRIDAY, sth APRIL (Day and Night)
SATURDAY, 6th APRIL (Day and Night)
Grand Holiday
Programme of
Ring Events and
Woodchopping
Contests.
HORTICULTURE SHOW IN THE LECTURE HALL,
THURSDAY, 2-Bth March; FRIDAY, 29th March; SATURDAY, 30th March.
DOG SHOWS: —Thursday and Friday—All terrier breeds.
28th and 29th March
Monday and Tuesday—Bull dogs, spaniels, collies, sheep-
-Ist and 2nd April and cattle-dogs, and sporting dogs.
Friday and Saturday—All toy breeds.
sth and 6th April
CAT S H O W: —Wednesday, 3rd April—All breeds.
GRAND MUSICAL PROGRAMME BY THE BONDI BEACH CONCERT BAND
EVERY AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
EVERY CONVENIENCE PROVIDED FOR THE PUBLIC.
Up-to-date Luncheon and Tea Rooms throughout the Ground.
PARKING AREAS FOR MOTOR CARS WITHIN THE GROUND
ADMISSION: Outer Gates: Day, Adults, 2/-; Children, 6d.
Night, Adults, 2/-; Children, 6d.
GRANDSTANDS EXTRA.
Endeavour House,
33 Macquarie Place,
Sydney.
G. C. SOMERVILLE,
Secretary.
Felspar’s guests smoked, nine o’clock came.
At that hour they left and strolled to their
host’s flat and studio.
Interested in the animated conversation
that cross-fired between them, they did not
notice that Carducci stealthily followed
them. He grew more cautious as
the party approached the bidding where
Felspar had his studio on the top floor.
Allowing Felspar and his friends a few
minutes to reach the studio and settle down,
the Italian crept up the stairs and
approached the door.
Carducci’s thoughts now, as always, were
filled with his own affairs and schemes.
What did they think of the picture? What
was it worth? Was Felspar likely to sell
it, and when? Had not Marie’s figure and
her beauty, as well as the attractions of his
own appearance, made the success of the
picture? From whom in Melbourne could
Felspar have obtained such lips to paint as
his own, such pursy lips, such a swarthy
complexion, such dark eyes, such tangled
knots of black hair, such a red silk sash
and such a gold chain and cross visible in
the opening of his shirt about his strong
throat? Had not Mistere Loci., a Sydney
artist, been to see him, to ask that Marie
might go to Sydney and sit for him?
“Ah, Mistere Lock!” Carducci laughed
to himself. “Mistere Lock? No money!
No! And when Marie smile pain must
come to someone’s purse!”
Standing on the mat outside Felspar’s
studio, with his ear to the door, the
Italian listened. He heard those in the
studio move to the far end of the room
where the “Marketing” picture, in size 1.6
by 8, had been placed, but he could not
bear clearly what was said. The artists
remained talking for some time, evidently
in front of the picture. Afterwards the}'
moved in the direction of a table upon
which Felspar kept glasses and a bottle of
whisky.
Someone said; “To the new model, and
may all models be as good!”
Carducci heard the clink of glasses. Then
a voice which he knew was Lock’s said:
‘You should have brought Marie round
here.”
Said a third voice: “Oh, he will later,
when we are gone.”
In the laughter that followed the remark
he heard Felspar’s voice: “Let’s drop that
talk—l don’t like it. Come out on the
roof and have a look at Melbourne by
night.”
He led the way to the flat roof, eighty
feet above the street. Before them Mel-
bourne was lying beneath a clear night
sky, the heavens pied with stars that clus-
tered around the jewel of the Southern
Cross. The lights of street lamps and of
cars stretched away for miles. No sound
came to them from the city. The beauty
of it hushed Felspar and ‘them all into
silence. It was so different from the city
they knew by garish day, when the war
of city noises ragged men’s nerves.
After they had drunk deeply of the
beauty, they talked and talked into the
night.
The post-office clock chimed eleven,
and the visitors said their good-
byes. Carducci went down the stairs be-
fore them, almost as quietly as an old
city rat would do.
Felspar accompanied his guests to the
street. He remounted the stairs, entered
his studio, and, locking the door, set up a
camp-bed he kept for nights when he was
detained in town. He threw a pair of
blankets on it; then he lit a cigar, carried
an easy chair out on to the fiat roof and
sat down to consider the problem, lately
much present in his mind, “With or with-
out Betty?”
She was, he felt, an inspiration to him.
Should he tell her it was so? Would he
say to her that his love for her had filled
his brain with ideals that he had never
known before? Yes, surely, he should
speak and tell her of the wretched mistake
he made when he was a student in Paris.
Thanks to good old Jules Dejazet, the fate
of the woman who had obsessed him was
not shrouded in mystery. Lisette Delas
was dead, and he was free to win Betty if
he was able! There could be no sailing
under false colors with Betty. He would
tell her of his marriage in Paris. “A man,”
he said, “couldn’t be anything but above-
board with Betty.”
The post-office clock struck one.
(To be continued.)
Song.
Ah, have I ever sung? Can sparrows sing?
I sometimes think that when one hears a
thrush
He goes alone into a hiding-place
And tries his beak out for some loveliness
That never comes—unless perhaps one night
In firry sleep he gives a great pure call,
And has the ghost of glory for his pain.
Ihat is the only way that I have sung.
After some great Atlantic madrigal,
I have made throats of thoughts and dreamed
they sang.
bo the Court fool might leave his little stool,
lo creep into the empty, raised throne,
iJreaming his motley into cloth of gold,
Ihe twilight walls into a listening world —
And wake to find the air afleer with lights,
.Himself still fool in jerkin, cap and bells,
And courtiers mocking him with mirthful
knee.
maobiland.
EILEEN DUGGAN.
Like a Breeze.
Oft, full oft, when night-time’s riot,
Worn out, tired out, sinks to quiet,
And the moon with gleams and shadows
Limns upon my wall a pattern
Of a swaying streetside laurel,
Back I go to Maldon’s Meadows.
Back I go on pinions airy
To those meadows, where a fairy
Greets me among ferns and grasses,
Silver ferns and barley grasses,
O’er which moves a wind of morning,-
Or a wind of twilight passes.
There at dawn, or when day closes,
Rich with tints of wine and roses,
For a while of sweet beguiling,
Time forgotten, space forgotten,
Now, as oft of old she met me,
Mary Maldon meets me smiling.
Fairyland had ne’er a fairy
With the charm of Maldon’s Mary,
Sweetest, fairest of men’s daughters.
Years and years ago she perished
Like a breeze that stirs the ripples
For a moment on lit waters.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
Newport (N.S.W.).
Black swans dreaming in sunlit waters;
Tan-pale headlands and turquoise tides;
Tossing thickets of glistening gum boughs
Where the wind as a conqueror rides.
High on a cliff a tawny castle
Looking over a topaz sea
To watch the keel of Adventure lifting
From the billows of mystery.
The road is ribboning out before us,
Plume of shadow and pool of sun ;
A red roof flashing, a green pond glimmering:
Crisp white rollers that shoreward run.
Strawberries sweet in a virent guarding
Of crinkled leaf, or a flower’s glow;
Dance of roses in dainty gardens,
Hollyhocks in a tattered row.
The road once more, and the flick of
branches;
A canna, gold in .a nest of green ;
Beauty swelling like song to meet us,
Bringing ache for what might have been.
Grassy glades with the drowsy murmur
Of creeping water; the sunset’s fire
Flaming out on a scented silence
Like the warmth of some funeral pyre
That burned a day we had consecrated
To jewelled blues of the sea and sky.
To gold of light and to silver headland
That tore our hearts when we said good-
bye.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Filching.
A little moon with pointed silver horns
Is shining in an amethystine sky.
Mcthinks that I could filch it furtively—
I see no mortal near. I think I’ll try.
I know a man who purchases such things
Like little moons with pointed silver horns.
He has a freakish shop in a quiet street,
And o’er its portals shine two unicorns.
One day I sold him for a burnished crown
A little dream I wove of lovely things,
I wove it of wood violets drenched in dew
And the red glory of a robin’s wings.
Upon another day for several crowns
I sold him one bewitching chestnut curl.
I filched it stealthily one saffron noon
From the bright head of a brown gypsv
girl.
I found her sleeping in a sunlit wood,
And wind-enchanted was this fragrant
spot;
A small stream rippled by her musically
Crooning a broken song and woke her not.
Perchance he’d give me three times seven
crowns
For a small moon with pointed silver
horns,
For moons are rarer than a girl’s bright
curls
And lovelier far than grotesque unicorns.
MAORILAND.
Ivy GIBBS.
The Icy Wind.
I build myself a house
Of frailer stuff than cards—
Of painted rice-paper
And autumn leaves; and shards
The careless tempest strews,
Seaweed and broken shells ;
The rainbow-crystal wings
Of dragon-flies ; of moths
The moonbeamMown. Such things
Fragile and fine I use.
I build remembered scents
Into my walls as well,
And lovely ringing words.
Delightedly I dwell
With laughter and content
Therein, and draw about
My shoulders like a shawl,
A broidered golden shawl,
Warm love and friendship. All
The heart’s foes prowl, without.
Who fears to dwell within
A wilderness alone
If he may build the least
Frail shelter of his own?
Friends visit me, some days.
Thus far my walls protect.
The snarling winds are sped
Sharp-fanged, and do not scathe,
Till one, unheralded,
Breathes, and my house is wrecked.
Against that airt what shield?
Though I should build my wali
Of granite ten feet thick,
Or tempered steel withal,
For the Beloved. I fear.
Not till I die shall cease
(Can I then make it stone
Or steel, my heart of flesh?)
The wind that blows alone
To wreck my hard-won' peace.
N.S.W.
DOROTHEA MACKELLAB.


Unique
In Its Class
ESSEX
- £270
- 270
- 330
t 350
Coupe „ ~ (Rumble Seat) 365
Sedan, Australian Body - 345
Sedan, Imported Body - - - 370
Prices at some points slightly higher.
Tourer, Australian Body
Roadster „ ~
Coach ~ ~
Coach, Imported Body
Here is value that stands at the
very pinnacle of the world s most
efficient industry. Here are per-
formance, beauty, comfort and
quality workmanship.
As you regard its handsome
ensemble and go over it detail by
detail, you get the same compel-
ling conviction of completeness
and finish, of costly car quality
and construction.
To see, to examine, to ride in the
Essex Super-Six can bring only
one conclusion that it is a car
unique in its class and the
world’s greatest value, altogether
or part by part.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Delro!., Michi s ... U.S.A.
DISTRIBUTORS:
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS. LTD., Melbourne. ’
Adelaide Street, Brisbane. ATTrrf>s . TTD
DALGETY & CO LTD., Hay Street, JertL.
Phillip Street, Sydney. way
MOTORS, LIMITED, H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide. Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE —BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
0m *
•?A


SERVICE
,t-1
' ti c A
V e ;
, c .„vVW.Jt °
a''
fi
V*
It*
A > otv*
o*t* a*
ay
iV e
9 o>
f' c
at*
N A*
\ e ®.
fta e
lot
\»'
t£ c
lot
\jo°
VJt^f
i\ otv
Tariff from £3 10/- weekly
/* Finest Unlicensed JioteL
Opp Railway Shi.North Terrace.
m
m
mm
is. SUB
u>*r.
6C5
ZRH
*92!
trC>f*
r4<S
PO^L
NO RIND—NO WASTE
ABSOLUTELY CLEAN.
CUTS INTO THIN,
GOLDEN SLICES.
A MELLOW AND DELECTABLE FLAVOR.
Sold in %lb. Cartons, as illustrated, and by weight by all Grocers.
K44b.
Depend On
Wunderlich Quality
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings
Wunderlich Roofing Tiles
Wunderlich “ Durabescos” Buildinf
Sheets
Wunderlich Metal Shopfronts
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
For Forty Years, Manujacturers of Quality
Products for Ceilings, Walls,
and Roojs
JETTISONED
By-VANCE PALMER.
CORKERY was the first man to see the
timber coming in on the making tide,
lie had risen with the birds, and had
trudged up the beach with a piece of old
shark in his bag to get sandworms for the
summer visitors when, just beyond the second
point, an astonishing sight met his eyes. For
more than a mile the wet sand was strewn
with lengths of Oregon pine, gleaming like
amber in the dim light, and piled up in places
as if it had been tipped from a dray. Every
green comber that broke in foam spewed up
more of it. Corkery, standing with open
mouth and round eyes, pricked wide on a
cliff above the beach, saw dark streaks in
the water wherever he looked.
“Musta bin a wreck,” was his first thought.
And his second was that there would be
a profit in it for someone. The sight of all
that timber without nail-mark or knot in it
went to his head like hot rum. Not a soul
upon the beach but himself: not a sound
except the silky swish of the combers on the
sand and the harsh cries of sea-birds float-
ing like feathers above the drifting wood!
If a man could only keep his find to him-
self till lie got the timber away!
Almost before he knew it he was padding
home breathlessly, the seaworms and the
summer visitors forgotten. No definite plan
for salvaging his find had broken upon him,
but at least he could stack a fair amount
of it in the tea-tree scrub above the beach
and wait for his chance. It was the first
time he had struck anything really good in
the year he had been at the bay, and he
meant to make the most of it. He would
have the timber picked over while the other
fishermen were sleeping after their night
with the nets—Scotty Farland, Joyce and
the whole greedy crowd of them. They hud
never let him in on anything; they had
always edged him outside the ring'; and
now they would be left. “Left helpless and
sick inside as an old punt on a mudbank,”
he told himself.
But it would be a hard day's
work, and he had gone out with-
out as much as a drink of tea
even. The need of a good break-
fast was making itself felt in
Corkery as lie hurried along
the beach, his rolled-up pants
sagging at the calves and his
flannel singlet open to the
waist. Figures and calculations were
streaming through his mind like sheep
through a broken fence. A dozen loads of
timber at thirty-five shillings a hundred 1
Or, say, a couple of quid a hundred when
jou allowed for the freight. With a bor-
rowed truck a man might make enough by
a night’s work to keep him for six months.
His sense of triumph over the other fisher-
men was making him chuckle deep down in
his stomach; but as he rounded the point
near the bay, the sight of two figures drift-
ing up the beach, with eyes fixed on the
skyline, sent a chill down his Spine. Old
Scotty and Matty Boylan! What had
brought them out so early? They ought
to have been asleep if they had been with
the nets.
“See any timber up the beach, Slug?”
they called out, as they neared him.
He affected not to hear them, watching
their advancing figures with shifty eyes.
Could a man make a deal with them and
keep out the rest of the crowd?
“See any timber drifting in?” they asked
again.
“Why?” fended Corkery. “What are yous
blokes expecting?”
“Well, what d’you think? Not opium.
You knew there was a Yankee timber-boat
aground on the Malabar shoals three days
ago?”
“No.” said Corkery, “never heard a word
about it. Yous fellows are close as oysters.”
“She had to jettison most of her deck-
cargo to get off,” said Scotty. “With the
way the currents run some of it ought to
have come ashore by now.”
They were running their shrewd, wind-
wrinkled eyes over him, reading the tale of
his empty worm-can, and Corkery knew it
was no use trying to play an empty hand
any longer. At once he became ingratiating,
bubbling over with his news.
“Well, it’s come all right,” he said. “Any
God’s quantity of it. There’s twenty or
thirty truck-loads up the beach there, just
about tide-level, and the combers is full of
it. Finest lot of Oregon I ever laid blinkers
on. Look here, yous blokes! What about
working in together and salvaging some of
it before the crowd comes?”
Their eyes were guarded and sea-cold. No
one was enthusiastic about working in with
Slug Corkery.
"What crowd?” said Boylan. “There ain't
any outsiders comes up this beach. And
we're not likely to do our own lot out of
what pickings there is.”
It was no good. Corkery knew he might
as well try to open a clam with his fingers
as make a secret deal with the crowd at
the bay. They stood together in everything,
had done for years, tiding one another over
bad times and sharing boats and tackle
almost as if they were common property.
And they had never taken to him. lie
opened his mouth too wide and kept his
fists too tightly closed, they said; smelt of
bar-room sawdust rather than salt water
and mullet-weed. They were tolerant of
him, but contemptuous at the core.
Corkery’s humpy was on the edge of the
settlement, a ragged lean-to made of slabs
and bid iron that he had built in his spare
time otil of such scraps as his neighbors
discarded. There was an outhouse of hessian
and brushwood where lie kept a battered
car; a little strip of garden where the fowls
rooted among the hot dust; heaps of drift-
wood, netting and rotting tyres everywhere.
His wife had gone out washing when he
arrived home, but the kettle was simmering
on the stove and he made his breakfast hur-
riedly, padding about in his bare feet and
slapping bread and meat together for lunch.
Those old crabs had known about the jet-
‘'They were running their shrewd, wind-wrinkled eyes over him, and Corkery knew
it was no use trying to Play an empty hand any longer.”
tisoned timber, he was thinking, and hadn’t
let him in on it! He would have given his
skin, almost, to have got in ahead of them.
Hut when he made his way up the beach
again they received him with shouts and
good-natured chaff, as if he were one of the
crowd:
“Hello, Slug! Slug’s the early bird that
caught the worm this time.”
“l T p all night watching for it, weren’t
you. Slug?”
“No more stopping up the chinks in your
hut with paper, eh, Slug? You’ll get a
new house out of this.”
Combo Hall and Joyce had come up while
he was away; the whole four of them were
working like beavers, gathering the timber
into little heaps, stacking it, sorting out the
planks that were warped or splintered.
Now that he was late on the scene, Corkery
affected to be sardonic about their efforts.
“It’s all right gathering it together,” he
said, "but liow're you going to get it away?
You've got Buckley's chance of running a
truck onter this beach.”
“Don’t worry,” they told him, “we're not
going to try. We’re going to carry it to
the lagoon and raft it up about a mile.
Then we’re coming across country with a
truck.”
The brilliance of the idea put a sudden
energy into Corkery. He hadn't thought
of that, but how easy it made everything!
Stripped to the waist lie began operations
on his own account, carrying half a dozen
pieces of timber on his shoulder at a time
and dumping them on the edge- of the tidal
creek that was shut out from the sea by
a heavy bar of sand. Never in all his days
had lie worked so hard or so joyously. The
sun swung up to the zenith and found him
still staggering over the loose spmd, the
sweat running into his eyes, the skin
peeling from his shoulders, a tremendous
thirst drying up his throat.
Leaden tints in the water, a chill breath
coming over the sea, clouds the hue of dark
grapes bunching up in the south-east!
“You'd better call it a day, Slug,” the
other men told him. “You’ll have your
work cut out to pole that lot up to the
head of the creek.”
Corkery eyed them suspiciously.
“And what about yous blokes?”
“Oil, we’ve got nearly all we want. We’ll
help yon make a raft of this, and give you a
start-off.”
They lashed the timber together for him
and piloted him to the first bend of the
creek, cracking dry jokes about the water-
man’s skill with which he plied the heavy
pole. Corkery was very satisfied with
himself and with the world as he steered
his unwieldy craft into the eye of the
setting sun. A vague goodwill was swelling-
in his heart. They weren’t such a bad lot
—old Scotty and his crowd! And now
that he had worked in with them once
they might give him free entry into other
things—a share of the fishing when the
mullet came in, jobs of carting and mending
nets, a boat now and then when he wanted
to go crabbing.
He plugged on up the creek, poling,
pushing, wading ahead and dragging his
burden with a rope, fighting yard by yard
against the slow current.
"Tiler's a crooked gum on the left bank
about a mile up,” they had told him. “The
track from the bay comes in there. Plant
it under the gum and you’ll be right.”
lie found the gum and unloaded the
timber beneath it, covering it with green
branches to screen it from prying eyes.
Then he beat home across country in tin
dropping dusk, his heart light in spite of
the way the sharp stubble and prickly
thorn-bush stubbed at liis bare feet.
"Enough for a house,” he told his wife
—"a coupla houses. 1 dropped on it first,
but I had to let the other blokes in.
Worth stretching a point, ain’t it, to keep
sweet with the crowd V They’ve never had
no time for me since 1 put Sandy Vines
away for crabbing without a license; but
from now on I'll be on velvet.”
lie would bo on velvet from now on;
they couldn’t treat him as an outsider after
this! That was the thought in his mind all
next day as he lounged about the pub, buy-
ing u solitary drink now and then, talking
about catches to the summer visitors, join-
ing in any general movement to the bar.
He would build a little house and live out
his life at the bay. It suited him, the
casual coming and going, the summer
drowsy air, the little bit of snapper-fishing
off the rocks at night. If only a man could
get enough easy jobs to keep his wife's
mouth shut and a few shillings in his own
pocket!
But when, a little muzzy and woolly-
minded, Corkery went out that night Avith
a borrowed truck lie could not find the
timber he had planted. There, sure enough,
Avas the crooked gum, with Avheel-marks
leading up to it and the tracks of bare feet
in the soft, black mud ; but Avliere was his
hard-Avon pine? He beat about Avith a
lantern in the dark, stumbling over tuan-
grove-roots, and refusing to admit the brutal
truth. Then it broke over him with the
force of a cyclonic storm.
“The dirty sooners—they’ve done me
down ! They'd made up their minds to beat
me for that timber from the start ; that avus
why they kidded friendly. The rotten .Shy-
locks ! But I’ll show ’em I ain't a pigeon.”
He Avas almost hysterical, mingling tears
and curses, but one part of his mind re-
mained cold and clear. He kneAv the law
about jettisoned cargo. And tbou o .i there
was no chance of getting the timber back,
he could stop the other men from making
any profit out of it.
A couple of days later a mounted trooper
rode out to the bay and pulled up at the
fishermen's huts that lined the bank of the.
salt-water creek. Corkery, standing at tile
door of his oavh shanty, soav him speak to
old Scotty, avlio was bending over his net,
and then begin poking about the yards
where the timber was stacked. There were
arguments as the other fishermen wandered
up from the creek. Then there was a
pulling-away of old tarpaulins that hid
further stacks of timber. Corkery could
hardly contain his delight as he watched
the trooper take out a notebook and begin
figuring iu it.
“Got ’em !” he almost shouted. “Got ’em
like mullet in a net. They won’t have ,a
chance to hide even a skerrick of it.” ■
He was almost happier than if he had
recovered his oavu timber and sold it at top
prices. The pariah in him Avas nourished,
fully satisfied. Did they think they could
stroke one hand and steal the bone
from his mouth Avith the other? Well, he
had snapped back, and sunk his teeth in
deep.
But as the days Avent on, his revenge,
so SAvcet in the mouth, began to be bitter
in the belly. The timber Avas not taken
away, but Avas auctioned on the ground, and
there Avas no one but the fishermen to bid.
The whole lot was knocked down to them
at a price that only covered the duty ! After
that builders from the townships inland
came over to buy, and for weeks there was
a rattle of trucks" past Gorkery’s door, cart-
ing away timber.
No one accused Corkery of giving the
show away, but: if a group Avas talking Avhen
he came near every mouth shut like a trap.
Even the storekeeper and the barman at'
the pub looked at him as if lie were some
loathsome thing washed up by the sea. He
found it harder than ever to get odd jobs
at carting, or cutting Avood. Nothing to do
all day but sit at the door of his hut.
Avatching the I'jiavls rooting in the dust of
the garden! Even the snapper didn’t seem
to bite as before when he fished from the
rocks at night.
“We’ll have to get out of here,” his wife
said. “I never liked the place. We could
(Continued on page 57.)


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3.369.965
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18,623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. It. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER: C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 62 Bishoi>sgntc, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 1 86 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 616,210
Ordinary Shares .. .. . . 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,525
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia,
Zealand, Fiji,
New
Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
a t interest for
fixed periods
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, (3d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Beading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
fix.
S'
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office): 44 Bridge Street, Sydney,
'SEbe Bomtnion.
New Zealand's
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion" is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
xi&d on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
Shipping, etc.
ENJOY WINTER IN PACIFIC ISLES
T 3 APIDLY growing in popularity, the Winter Excur-
sions from Sydney to Rarotonga and Papeete
(Tahiti) may yet rival the old-established holiday trips
to Honolulu. The swift trans-Pacific steamers of the
Union Royal Mail Line afford a superb ocean holiday,
as well as a glimpse of New Zealand’s Capital.
Forward booking is advisable to ensure picked accom-
modation on these island excursions.
Raratonga and Tahiti
via Wellington
£55 First and ££o Second (return)
Tahiti leaves Sydney May 16
Maunganui „ .. June 13
Tahiti „ „ July 11
Honolulu via Auckland
and Suva
£75 First and £55 Second (return)
Niagara leaves Sydney May 30
Makura „ „ June 27
Aorangi „ „ July 25
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY, 247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne, Cl.
STEAMSHIP PASSAGES
Arranged by All Steamship Lines.
Choice of Any Route. Without Extra Charge*
ENGLAND
FRANCE
ITALY
GERMANY
From AUSTRALIA
AMERICA
CANADA
MEXICO
AFRICA
to
JAPAN
EGYPT
INDIA
CHINA
Also attractive tours to Honolulu, Java, Colombo, Fiji, etc,
BUSINESS TRIPS.
PLEASURE CRUISES.
AUSTRALIA TO
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
VISIT JAVA (“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly sailings maintained by the popu-
lar Steamers “MARELLA” and “MALA-
BAR from Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane, via Queensland Ports, Torres
Strait, Darwin, etc.
Vor Reservations a d Information apply
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. A„d .11 8r...k Offic.
3C
wmmk
(-9.
TAKE YOUR HOLIDAYS NOW
in
HAWAII!
HAWAII!
HAWAII!
Come to the paradise of the Pacific and enjoy
a holiday such as you’ve never had before. Bask
in the warm health-giving climate of Hawaii ;
build up both body and mind in the romantic
surroundings of this Island Utopia.
Surf, Golf, Summer Sports galore await you,
plus the contagious cheerfulness of this happiest-
of-all peoples—the Hawaiians. Inter-Island
cruises. Visit Kilauea Volcano.
The steamer fare for such a holiday will cost
as low as £55 second-class or £75 first-class.
Good American Hotels with all meals, 12/- to
£3 daily. Fullest particulars from steamship
and travel agents, or write for booklet.
HAWAII TOURIST BUREAU,
Dept. 26, Box 162788, G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Take your Holidays now—Go to
HAWAII - HAWAII - HAWAII
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Nestor ....
ICeramic . . .
f Demosthenes
*Ulysses . . .
fThemistocles
JRunic ....
*Ascanius . .
15,000 tons, March 15.
18.500 March 25.
11.500 „ April 12.
15,000 „ May 10.
11.500 ~ June 10.
12.500 „ July 9.
10,000 ~ July 22.
:: First class only, tFirst and Third class.
t“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd.)
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. j
Joint
Agents
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .
RESERVE LIABILITY
Established 1817.
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: .H. Palmer, Esq.; W. E. H. Southerden, Esq. General Manager : Alfred Charles Davidson.
Head Office—George Street. Sydney London Office—39 ThreadDeedle Street. EC. 2.
536 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings,
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
ertrety
FOR BRISBANE. MACKAY, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outports).
ertrety
Splendid Cheap Service
Via Suez Canal
FAST OIL BURNERS
lil conjunction with Sailings via South Africa,
Excellent Menu. Late Dinner.
Fares to London from £3B.
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For particulars apply
! Gilchrist, watt & Sanderson, Ltd.
Bolt 513 AA, 5 O’Connsll St., Sydnjy.
‘Phone i 86701
BRISBANE,via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORAltA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAU —Every Tuesday evening;
passeng“i's dbe Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted vvitli Wireless Receiving Sets,
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/6/•
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CIIALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart Parkei'L'i^ 1
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamship)
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
HAS ACCEPTED
%
ertrety
ertrety
NEWS PICTORIAL
with the utmost enthusiasm.
ALL THE NEWS!
ALL THE PICTURES!
The State’s First Morning
Pictorial.
Largely increased Sales
already assured.
Arrange Contracts at
present rates.
HEAD OFFICE: REGISTER NEWS-
PAPERS, LIMITED, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative: Eric N. Birks,
Sydney. Tel. X 5187.
Melbourne Representative: G. N.
Bednall, “Argus" Building, Mel-
bourne. Tel. F 4502.


Miss SHIRLEY MILTON, of 18-',
William Street, Darlinghurst, N.S. IV..
writes: “I would highly recommend
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills to anyone
suffering from backache. I think they
are wonderful.”
Gin Pills Will Help You!
If you feel that your Kidneys are the cause of your sickness, your
run-down feeling, begin taking Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for Backache and
Kidney Trouble, because as soon as your Kidneys improve they will help
the other organs to health.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for Backache and Kidney Trouble relieve the
worst cases, because they remove the cause of
such troubles; they get to the root of the matter,
clean out the Kidneys and make them filter out
all the poisonous waste matters and uric acid
that lodge in the joints and muscles, causing
Rheumatism. They soothe and heal the bladder,
and quickly relieve you. They are a unique
remedy, entirely different from anything you
have ever used. There is nothing else to compare
with them. No matter how old you are, or how
long you have suffered, the very principle of Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills is such that it is practically
impossible to take them into the human system
without obtaining results. Dr. Sheldon’s Gin
Pills, 1/9 and 2/9.
m
SSS.
m
a
Q
Q
1h e
(AM
Britain’s
Motor
Masterpiece
In Mayfair and the Shires, across the plains of
India and the desert tracks of Iraq, in the sun-
shine of Australia, or on the African veldt—•
everywhere where cars are used you will find
the Sunbeam.
Not only in mechanical efficiency but also in
coachwork of fine appearance and luxurious
comfort, Sunbeam leads the way.
Its high road speed, ease of control, security
of braking and stability under all conditions
ensure a performance of exceptionally high
standard.
The coachwoik combines unusual beauty of line
with roomy accommodation.
Sunbeam cars for the Australian market are
specially built with the necessary ground clear-
ance, springing and cooling to ensure perfect
performance on the roughest roads and tracks
and in the most tropical heat.
Complete catalogue will be sent on application
to our Australian agents, or direct to our Export
Department.
AUTHORISED DISTRIBUTORS.
THE ALL BRITISH MOTOR CO. PTY., LTD., 111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
MESSRS. WILLIAMS, HILL & CAMERON, LTD., 91-97 Flinders Street, Sydney.
MESSRS. ARTHUR BALES, LTD., 367-371 Murray Street, Perth.
RASCH MOTORS, LTD., 69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT:
12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, W.l, England.
Cables;
“Subeamoco,” London.
Head Office and Works:
Wolverhampton, England,
Agents for Egypt: MIDDLE EAST MOTOR AGENCY, 3 Kon-Elo Dick, Alexandria.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Restful, quiet and cool —open to the Summer Sea Breezes. Delightfully situated with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service.
Spacious Grounds and Garage" Accommodation.
Summer Tariff from 5 guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines). Management M. E. BURROWS.
stay here till Kingdom Come and never
do no good for ourselves.”
She had a pain in the hack now that
always caught her when she was in the
middle of a day’s washing. It was time,
she hinted, for Slug to make inland and
get some real work at the timber-mills.
One day before they left Corkery w r ent
across country to the lagoon in search of
crabs, and poking along the side among the
inanarove-roots he looked up to see some
dry branches on the bank, and a heap of
warped timber underneath them. For a
few moments he stood still, the blood pound-
ing at his heart. Yes. there was the crooked
gum and the place where he had landed
with his load ! And there were the frayed
lashings of his raft lying just where he had
thrown them!
He staggered over to the bank and sat
down on the heap of timber, a mist before
his bloodshot eyes and an emptiness in his
stomach. Two hundred yards further down
he could see another leaning gum that he
must have missed when lie came up with
the raft. It was there In* had gone that
night, following the other men's wheel-
marks. What devil of booze or bad humor
had put him wrong in all he had done!
The situation was too much for Corkery.
A damn lot of good the timber was to him
now—he would never be able to use it!
Rut that was not the main thing that
darkened his mind as he sat looking at the
sucking water; he was oppressed by a
deeper sense of loss. It seemed to him now
that the day he had found the timber and
worked with the other men in rafting it
up the lagoon was the happiest in his life.
Opal waves breaking on the sands, jokes
and chiacking as the men passed and re-
passed one another with their loads, a sense
of mateship as they sat down at mid-day
round the brewed tea. Yet how could he
even look back on all that with pleasure
now?
There w r as a long period of heavy brood-
ing ; then a flash of light as the rat in him
came to the surface again, sodden and
shrivelled, but maliciously alive.
“\\ ell, anyway, no one else is going to
get the good of it,” he told himself; "I'll
make dead sure of that."
And raking some dry brushwood together
with one hand, he felt with the other for
his tin box of matches.
One in a Million.
R. VANSITTART
TELLS A FINE AUSTRALIAN DETECTIVE STORY.
THE grey-clad and shifty-cycd congrega-
tion which shuffled up to its feet as
the clergyman gave out the hymn was
not exactly what might have been described
as a collection of ardent churchgoers,
although it followed every word and move-
ment of the parson with more or less close
attention. Its members attended the Sun-
day services with regularity, partly because
they had to and partly because any break
in the monotony of the prison routine was a
welcome one.
They had just commenced to bellow and
roar and screech their way through the
hymn when “Big Chiller” Breen, in a seat
near the back of the chapel, suddenly became
aware that words directed to him under cover
of the noise were floating around his ears.
Without looking he knew that they came
from the man next to him, one Tommy the
Squib, and by a practically unnoticeable in-
clination of his head signified that he had
heard and understood.
“Easiest thing yer ever struck, Chiller.”
said the apparently-disembodied voice, while
its owner gazed straight ahead with what
was^intended to represent a rapt and devout
expression on his greasy, rodent-like
features. “Pearls they is an’ there’s a ’ole
string of them worth thousands. They come
from that big bust at Bellevue 'lll a bit ago,
but ol’ Levy wot fenced them ’s afraid ter
put them orf ’ere an' Vs ’olding them ter
send them ter London. Yer can’t go wrong.
They’re in ther clock.” The voice suddenly
faded like a wireless set in difficulties as a
warder looked across at the speaker and then
resumed again as the look was turned away.
“I’d ’ave ’ad it on meself, only I went orf
too sudden over them cheques. So I thought
I’d tell yer as yer goin’ ter be sprung ter-
morrer. An’ if yer do it yer wmn’t fergit
it was me what put yer on ter it. Chiller!”
“Let yer know later,” said Big Chiller,
while his eyes followed the printed words
of the hymn with what was a very fair
imitation of absorbing interest.
So far as Big Chiller could see there was
only one thing wrong about the prospective
job on the pearls over which Mr. Emmanuel
Levy was then exercising entirely illegal
proprietary rights and that was that as soon
as it had been done he would be auto-
matically arrested on general principles. A
recognised specialist in robbery with violence,
a much more technical department of crime
than the law-abiding might imagine, there
were not so many of his professional col-
leagues about just then. Three were in gaol,
three were in other States and three more
were in what is known as “smoke” under
such circumstances that they were not likely
to emerge even temporarily. This left only
a mere half-dozen, with Chiller amongst
them, who might be then in active practice,
and the first thing to happen if the police
got to hear about the job would bo that he
and others would be dragged in by large and
incredulous detectives who had no time what-
ever for any theories about the reformative
effects of gaol on professional crooks. He
reflected bitterly that the fact that he had
only just come out and was known to be
stone motherless broke would also go against
him in the congenitally-suspicious minds of
the police, who seemed constitutionally in-
capable of giving anybody a fair go.
There are some schools of criminology
which hold that the habitual crook is always
sub-normal and deficient in mentality, but
this is not always true. Big Chiller Breen,
for instance, could often think as clearly and
as rapidly as any schoolboy of twelve, especi-
ally if he were not hurried or distracted by
something else and had had a moderate
amount of alcohol to help him. The pre-
sent occasion being one upon which he had
brought to bear the whole of his massed
mental faculties, it was not long before it
dawned upon him that the one thing neces-
sary was some unshakable evidence which
would not only hold enough water to con-
vince a jury, if need be. that he was innocent
of the raping of Mr. Levy's pearls and »f
any other circumstances arising from that
act, but which would even persuade the
police—against their better judgments, of
course—of the same thing.
Just in case some discerning reader is
beginning to ask why Big Chiller should
have had anything at all to fear from the
police, seeing that the pearls had been stolen
in the first place and that consequently Mr.
Levy would be in no position to complain
of his loss, it may be as well to refer back
to the statement that Chiller’s speciality was
robbery with violence, a rather different
thing from plain robbery. The ordinary
housebreaker invariably shrinks from any
display of force, unless, of course, the object
of it is a woman, but his more violent pro-
totype generally prefers to use an anaesthetic
when operating. This has the advantages
of reducing opposition and lessening the
chances of subsequent identification, since the
victim seldom catches more than a fleeting
glimpse of the operator before waking up in
the casualty ward. Such was the technique
indicated in the case of Mr. Levy, who
already knew Big Chiller quite well and not
at all favorably. And there was always the
possibility that the latter might hit just a
trifle too hard, for Mr. Levy was not as
young as he had been, and with such subjects
it was often rather difficult to estimate the
exact amount of strength required. More-
oxer, things had a knack of leaking out some-
how, and the police might hear all about
the divorcing of Mr. Levy from his pearls.
Chiller’s motto was: “You never know.”
Still thinking deeply, Chiller turned out of
the street in which he had been walking as
he pondered upon these things, and kept on
going until he came to another, which seemed
to be dedicated to mixed commerce. He
paused at length in front of a small cart-
dock at the side of an unprepossessing-
looking building, and stood there until he
had succeeded in catching the eye of a
bowler-hatted man who wore garters upon
his shirt sleeves and sat in a tiny glassed-in
office at the end of the lane. Then he
strolled unhurriedly away towards a near-by
hotel and entered the parlor at its rear.
1 fere, presently, he was joined by the man in
the bowler hat. They exchanged salutations,
and, after ordering some beer, engaged in
deep converse for a period.
“It don't sound too good,” said the shirt-
sleeved person, who seemed to be sceptical
by nature.
“All you gotter do, Alf,” said Chiller,
speaking slowly and as one makes things
clear to a child, “is ter tell ther demons 1
was there talkin’ ter yer in ther office. See?”
“Yes,” was the answer, “an’ then they’re
liable ter git askin’ ’oo I am.” Plainly the
bowler-liatted man was no stranger to the
methods of police investigation, “An’ if
they do they’re liable ter fin’ out about me
over in ther West, an’ also about ther
scheme me an’ ther bloke upstairs is workin’
with double orders, see. .Test because I ain't
known ter them ’ere ain’t ter say they won’t
look me up. You know what them Johns
are, Chiller.” t
Chiller did know and the knowledge caused
him to gaze moodily into his beer. His com-
panion ordered a refill and thought heavily
while drinking.
“Yer on a chop if it comes orf,” said
Chiller.
“Tell yer what.” The man with the
garters on his sleeves spoke weightily, as
one who at last sees a way out oft diffi-
culties. “What you wanter do is come in
an’ buy some stuff in ther mornin’. Any-
thing will do, an’ yer can say yer want it to
go ’awlcin’ with an’ yer’ll be back fer it
later. They sends ther parcel down ter me
an’ w’en yer comes back yer signs fer it in
ther book, only yer don’t, see? Instead, yer
writes yer name on a piece of paper and
gives it ter me an’ w'en I goes ’ome I takes
ther book with me an’ traces yer name in it.
Then w’en ther demons is in there’s yer
signachnre all right on ther larst page for
that day, provin’ yer was in jest as we were
closin’ ther joint at six, see? It’s a perfec’
aliby. No need ter say we know each other,
but, of course, I can be sure that you was
ther bloke what come fer ther parcel.”
Admiringly Big Chiller looked at his in-
genious friend with an expression which
said that here was one who would yet go
far. “Jonnick,” ho said, meaning thereby
that the suggestion, had his unqualified
approval.
They had some more beer and then parted,
the hard-hatted person going out first that
they might not be observed together Big
Chiller finished the last of his mug with a
rosily optimistic feeling that fortune was
now within his grasp. So strong was this
feeling that for the moment he even con-
sidered putting away a cut of the proceeds
for Tommy the Squib against the day when
the latter s current debt to society would be
paid. But only for the moment, and then
he dismissed the idea as an unmannerly
weakness and one not worthy of himself. ‘
It wanted only twenty minutes to "six
the next afternoon when Chiller left the bar
where he had been since dinner-time and
where he had been careful t 0 attract as much
attention to himself as possible, and made his
way through mean- streets and dirty lanes to
the back gate of a yard that was thoroughly
in keeping with its surroundings
wmter-time it was then practically dark and
m another half-hour or less would be com-
pletely so. The back door of the house
opening on to the yard was locked, but
with something that looked like the butt
(Continued on necet vage, )


HUSBANDS —Gilt-Edged and Otherwise
Mortimer is nourishing a mammoth
of a brain,
Light and soppj? Literature can
make him wince with pain,
Vast pendantic treatises as flavour-
less as bran
Are the fitting mental food for
every Thinking Man.
V £M
njpmwgp:
<M m
Sr sfv),
ABOULL"
u
<Jh*+ .
THE BRAINY HUSBAND
Cynthia calmly contemplates his
bleak balloon-like skull,
“Dear old Morty,” run her thoughts,
“so earnest and so dull l
With each tome he reads aloud he
grows a trifle duller,
Still—he has one bright idea—he
* uplifts’ on ABDULLA!”
—R, HoLKUi
SUPERB CIGARETTES
TURKISH EGYPTIAN VIRGINIA
end of a chisel he broke one of the lead-
lights, inserted his hand and turned the key
on the other side. Inside the house he put
away the instrument and dfew froni his coat
pocket a peculiarly-shaped device of lead
covered with soft leather. This lie slipped
over the fingers of his right hand so that it
looked like a series of thick rings connected
by short bars.
There was a light burning in the room
behind the second-hand shop, and at the
soft sounds of Chiller’s entrance somebody
in this room got up and started to shuttle
towards the door. Chiller stepped back,
and as the figure of the elderly Mr. Levy
appeared he hit straight and hard. Prac-
tically the only sound as the lead and leather
struck the other just below his right ear
was a sort of gurgled gasp. Then Big Chiller
stepped nonchalantly over the unconscious
body on the floor and entering the room,
looked around for the clock. It stood upon
the mantelpiece, and, exactly as Tommy the
Scjuib had said, the pearls were inside,
wrapped up in a dirty piece of old news-
paper and poked away in one corner behind
the works. Hi' dropped them into his pocket
with hardly a second glance, and. after a
swift look around to see if there was any-
thing else of value in sight, turned to go.
As he passed his victim something in the
latter's appearance caused him to bend over
and examine him more closely. He saw
with feelings not untinctured with annoy-
ance that what lie had anticipated had come
to pass. The old fence had ceased to be
Mr. Levy and had now become the late Mr.
Levy. Chiller reflected with not a great
deal of interest that, you never could tell
about these old blokes. • ■
lb' was in the very act of opening the
back door in such a manner as to leave
no fingerprints, when somebody suddenly
came into the yard and lie just had time to
shut the door again and turn the key in its
lock. Peering out from behind one of the
fly-sp'ecked curtains he saw that the new-
comer was an elderly woman carrying a
milk jug _ and recognised her as the late
Mr. Levy’s housekeeper.
She stood for a moment turning the handle
and then her eyes lighted upon the broken
lendlight. She accurately interpreted its
significance and let out a howl which could
have been heard hundreds of yards away.
Simultaneously there broke out an uproar
in the shop.
Without warning Chiller suddenly found
himself in the inconvenient position of hav-
ing to do some thinking and do it quickly
without much mental equipment to do it
with. The hubbub in front seemed to signify
that the body of Mr. Levy had been found
by somebody who was intent on telling the
whole street about it, and the lady at tin:
back was being inspired to further efforts by
the row from the other side of the door.
Big Chiller came rapidly to the decision
that the best way out was the front way.
The woman in the yard knew him neariy
as well as Mr. Levy had and would cer-
tainly recognise him. There was a chance
that whoever was making all the fuss in the
shop was not anybody amongst Chiller’s
acquaintances, and that in the brief instant
it would take him to pass through they
would not get a very good look at him. He
pulled his felt hat down over his eyes, jerked
liis muffler up as high as it would go and
dashed out.
There were two men in the little room
.behind the shop and both were so busily
engaged in lifting the shell of what had been
Mr. Levy on to a couch .that Big Chiller
had come and gone again before they had
caught anything more than a flash of him
as he went past. He negotiated the shop
itself with equal ease and did not even slow
up as he reached the street outside, although
it was fairly well filled with hurrying people,
Only seventy yards away was the entrance
to an inviting lane, and once he gained it
he knew that lie would be able to find at
least temporary sanctuary in the tortuous
and tangled Alsatia to which it led. So
lie ran faster than lie had ever run before
in liis life, and did not even slacken when
lie bumped violently into somebody on the
street corner and cannoned off in the general
direction of his haven. There were no sounds
of pursuit behind and lie slowed down to
a quick walk in the lane just in case any
plainclothes men were hanging about, for
such, seeing Big Chiller in a breathless
hurry, would not have to wait for the papers
to learn that something had happened to
somebody not far away,
He felt in tlie. best of spirits when a
quarter of an hour later, having attended
to the putting away of the pearls in a much
safer place than the late Mr. Levy had
been able to think of, lie sat down and
ordered food in a greasy little restaurant
whose proprietor knew him. It was then
just fifteen minutes past six. His whole
afternoon would hi* accounted for by the
people at the hotel where he had started
a light and promoted an argument over the
paying for some drinks. Ilis faked hut irre-
firoiblo signature in the warehouse hook
would show that at six o’clock In* had been
miles away from the shop of Mr. Levy;
and here lie was at six fifteen, just sufficient
time to allow him to got from tlie warehouse
to the restaurant. The- mores. Chiller turned
over flu* alibi in his mind the more satisfied
lie became with it, until at last lie began
to have serious doubts as to whether it really
had been In* who had stolen the pearls and
slugged Mr. Levy. Concerning tlie latter
lie did not feel even passing regrets. Mr.
Levy in lift* had been a fence, and so out-
side the respect of every decent, police-fearing
crook.
It Was not quite ten o'clock that night
when Big Chiller, warmed by food, intoxi-
cated by ideas and stimulated by liquor,
came out of the sly-grog shop where he
had been spending a pleasant evening, and
walked in carefree manner down tlie street,
Tie had not gone far when four men, all
of them big and determined-looking, emerged
from the shadows of a small liam and beef
shop and surrounded him. Three had each
one hand in a pocket, and on their faces
was an expression which seemed to indicate
that they intended no good at all to Chiller
if lie were not very careful. The fourth
had both hands free, hut in one lie held
something which almost casually lie affixed
to Chiller’s right wrist with a sharp, cold
snap.
“Been lookin’ for you, Chiller,” said this
one. “The boss wants to see you.”
“Oh, 'e does, does ’e?” snarled the captive.
“An’ what do yous big think yer got
on me?” The happening was no surprise
to Chiller naturally, but the question was
the customary formula under such circum-
stances.
The quartette from headquarters, quite
unresentful of the names which, with many
others, they had heard applied to them a
thousand times before, merely grinned and
led the way around the corner to where
there awaited a large car with a man
placidly smoking a cigarette at its wheel.
They pushed Chiller in and got in after
him. “ 'Ome, James,” said the humorist
of the party.
The room in which Big Chiller shortly
found himself was one which he knew very
well, having been in it many, many times
before. Its furniture consisted of hardly
anything more than some shelves, several
chairs and a table behind which there sat
another large and red-faced man who looked
exactly as though he had come out of the
same mould as the others. This one was
writing, but at the entry of Chiller and his
escort, now slightly augmented, he put down
his pim.
“Know what it’s for this time, Chiller,
don’t you?” he inquired in ordinary con-
versational tones. But Chiller was too ex-
perienced in such procedure to be caught in
that way. In richly-colored words and
phrases whose warm overtones throbbed with
liot and vivid life, lie intimated that he had
not the slightest idea, and added a few
general observations concerning detectives—•
whom Ik> called by another term —and their
ways. Neither the man at the table nor
any of the others was at all offended.
“You did old Manny Levy’s place to-
night,” said the former. “Now don’t tell
any lies about it." he interposed as Chiller,
with an expression of blank astonishment
at the incredible injustice of the accusation,
opened his mouth to deny it heatedly. “What
were you after? Or were you getting even
for something? You might just as well own
up, because we’ve got three people who saw
you go in and come out and they can all
identify yon.”
Big Chiller smiled scornfully and gazed
wonderingly at those around him in a way
which sought to convey that, although he
marvelled that anybody could make so cruel
and senseless a charge against him, lie still
did not anticipate any difficulty in refuting
it and proving his innocence. Privately he
was hoping that Alf had his name all ready
in the book by now. He cleared his throat
and began huskily.
“I bin aroun’ different places all day, Mr.
Reilly,” he said with a touch of pathos
that only made him sound as though he
were developing a bad cold. “They can
tell yer w’ere I live that I never got up
till twelve an' right up ter ’arf parst five
I was at Sandy's pub. There’s dozens there
what seen me.” lie paused slightly to
observe how the story was going.
“And where did you go after that?" asked
the man at the table, who appeared to be
both inquisitive and persistent. Some of the
men in the room grinned, it being obvious
that they were expecting something a bit
better than this from Big Ghiller.
“Down ter a ware'ouse in Clarenee-street
—ther Direc’ Novelty Company they calls
it —an' got there jest as they was closin
at six. I 'ad ter sign fer some stuff ter
go ’awkin’ with, an' me signacliure's there
in ther book. Must be erbout ther larst in
it fer ther day. Ther bloke in ther little
orfiss downstairs 'll know me all right.
The man called Mr. Reilly fumbled about
in a drawer for a moment and then brought
forth a small book of the sort in which
receipts for goods are signed. “You're stiff.
Chiller,” he remarked affably, “we’ve got
the book here and your name's not in it any-
where.” He. paused while he fixed the
suddenly-scared Chiller with a keen eye.
“By the way, what’s this pi«ce of paper
with your name on it?”
The power of coherent and co-ordinated
speech seemed to have departed from Big
Chiller, who sat and stared at the book
while he made strange noises in bis larynx.
Then, dimly, he heard the other speaking
again.
“When you ran out of old Levy’s shop a
bit ago,” he said, “you bumped into a man
and knocked him down. He hit hi-f head on
the kerb and died in the hospital about an
hour ago. On him was found this book and
tin* paper with your name written on it,
and he has since been identified as Alfred
Morgan, employed by the Direct Novelty
Company. Just at present, Chiller, we can’t
make it all fit together, but I have no doubt
that by to-morrow we will be able to do
so. Was this other chap in the joke with
you or was he going to help in some way
with an alibi?”
From amidst a tangled vision of pearls,
the dead body of Mr. Levy, hangman’s ropes
and other unpleasant things, Chiller sorted
out one clear idea, which projected from all
the rest of the jumble. Utterly oblivious
to what he was saying or its consequences
lie translated this idea into words.
“Blime,” he said despairingly, “outer
more'n a million I 'ad ter go and pick on
that bloke. It ain’t fair.”
Dew Dripping.
The cows standing quietly under the
trees....
The grass growing quietly under the cows. ...
The' birds soaring quietly under Heaven. ...
And ihe dead lying soundlessly under the
hill.
Seed breaking silently out of a shell....
The man pleading quietly unto the maid. ...
Night with its heavy, soft burden of sleep. . .,
Truth like a far, untouched quick'silvei
star!
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN LUCAS.


t r4m ,v;
'4'
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in vitock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES « CHI/RCH, Brisbane.
Street, Wellington.
*
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House/’ 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agent*: Messrs. EIDER, SMITH Jt CO., LTD*] Adelaida, B.A.
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLOSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Every over the State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue i 3 eagerly read by men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 228
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: "Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Cordon & Gotch, price 1 Id.
ADVERTISER newspapers ltd.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone, MA3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
THE DAILY MAIL
BRISBANE
Is logically the first big daily to select in Queensland for any advertising
campaign. It gets results!
It is always bright and is progressive to a degree.
And its net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to
be greater than that of any other daily in Queensland. Its companion
journal is
THE SUNDAY MAIL
Queensland’s big. weekly newspaper and magazine. These two journals
give a “cover” in Queensland that is second to none. For rates and
other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE,
Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any Illustration in "THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Always "First" in Queensland Advertising .
The BRISBANE COURIER
HAS AGAIN PROVED ITS SUPERIORITY AS
QUEENSLAND’S LEADING ADVERTISING
MEDIUM.
In 1927 the “Courier” carried 9,070 columns more than its
morning contemporary. In 1928 the “Courier” increased its
lead by 386 columns, making a grand total of 9,456 columns
over its morning contemporary.
It’s simply because the “COURIER” is first in Queensland in
CIRCULATION, ADVERTISING AND INFLUENCE.
Rate Cards and specimen copies from ROBT. D, FISHER,
74 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone B 5007.
Published by the Brisbane 'Newspaper Co ,, “ Courier ” Building, Queen
Street, Brisbane; also publishers of the “Queenslander” and “Sports Referee' 1
fianMMmm,
dtipd induptm,
tunove constipation
iak
i
*.r
«*>
SsS
Worth a
i Guinea
a Box.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
contains everything that women
should know—from kitchen to
drawing-room, from cradle to
old age. It is the most remark-
able threepenny - worth ever
printed.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
THE
3d.
s?
$
&
V
the Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily e£pctively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner “Weekly Cow
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from;
Her”- and
w.
R, Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. V. W. Margetts,
122 Flinders Street,
Melbourne.
Mr* W. G. Dougara,
701 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ertrety
r
o
0°
rV \o®. **
i
s e* V* .
_ <S® ,•-• ...; V
W \>'V *


AM
m
Quality In Three Price Fields
. , , , • t . ' .■ "■ ■ • ,1 "..
Dodge Brothers three great Sixes provide everything
you want in an automobile and at exceptionally low
prices for fine car quality.
The New Senior is one of the distinguished Sixes of the
day, aristocratic in appearance, outranking many
costly cars in performance and luxury.
The famous Victory is still the outstanding engineering
triumph of the industry.
The Standard offers a degree of comfort, economy,
quality and style most unusual at the price,
Dodge Brothers complete line of passenger vehicles includes
the Standard Six, the Victory Six and the Senior Six •
Canada Cycle 8C Motor Co., (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Austral Motors, Limited. Brisbane—Townsville
Harden and Johnston, Ltd., Sydney
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Northern Automobiles, Ltd., Auckland, N.Z. P. E. Vickery, Ltd. Invercargill, N.Z,
Amuri Motors, Ltd. .. Christchurch, N.Z. Newton King, Ltd. .. New Plymouth, N.Z.
Oossens and Black, Ltd. .. Dunedin, N.Z. Magnus Motors, Ltd. .. Wellington, N 3,
Dodge Brothers Corporation
DETROIT, MICHIGAN
20/3/’29
