

i
Ml
fm
mf?
Is
mm
SSVA K
IGMED^P^^
li
. ft
//
x*X\v;
7/
///:>
wmJEe^/msSk
m
z
is
wS
2®i
ills
:S:>;?:
•£? —Hi
Perth
: ,*Wi>ii.i<ii » w'y
fSESSSSr/
&
37m
I
' r^rS/a
ft
Sff?
SI! 1 1
fil uMferrnrsr:i~r
+**&
:■■*■^
M
vx:
it
>< H~r* ifo/ —~
pfeggg-S
f&&**&&
mm
W//A
I
i®
M»ii* » .?;i«»»""W»»Mii<»»
jaiVuilSß
//M?
I ffc~,—
m
gyg
pr
k|)iT-^
ftliwir-
i
kHH
flips!
~iu;
■
sS£s3g
*•££
tX)MIS WAJISfr f
A, ,f *c
, ? OOlT«tl*T
&
ill
!!§!
2SS&
rSSSSSv^^,
. I(
<vL j
-^sms
~4;: j
rsJ.iKj
!|P !
FINE
■Vi*
u^-‘
%
near
t
S*?S
$
1
1
!j|||||||S
•sSEEE^
** :■
:££sg
ii
y«y
3\N
nawaataiiiiMiß
tlfi||l|l INSTITtITt
/>£/ & WsstSnD Clubs
*\fs SOPPiJ^D^TO^TtIiJSfc r^'
2*
M
*«
g§§^.
ww»/*
s
111
J John Dewars eons 1
pp Distillers PERTHIScotIawfI*WNDOH ;
PRODUCE OP SCOVtAND
4gSfc «^» # U.. 8.6 *, - ...,, lM r.u^
'"unois T„r r.i>pe«¥«sio* of t»if cc»*z i, ” ,t '
f
2Sg@
•si
fxlsa
r.upeavit
i
■ /•
ua
rsJ
ill
**•> jyijfyjii wXK
577
Good Spirits
await Good Company
DEWAR’S
the whisky
0
ss
.•'■■■•
■ • v
The Bulletin
(soy-idjQ shz4ft~ /^toYiAA
Vol. 50. — No* 2566*
e
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


WRITE for the library cata-
W LOGUE AND LISTS on all subjects,
wlich will be forwarded on application, no3t
RYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Learn
at HOME
Send this S.B. Advt. for this Book:
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.” It is Free!
STOTT’S, 100 Russell St., Melbourne.
ê
S.V
HW 3
ë
STAMMERING AND STUTTERING
CAN BE CURED IN YOUR OWN HOME
Send TO-DAY for pa
those who have been <
Stammerers’ Friend),
iticulars of “Perfect Speech” and copies of letters from
lived. Philip O’Bryen Hoare, M.8.1.M.5c. (London) (The
Specialist in Public Speaking and the Cure of Stammering
and Stuttering.
ADDRESS:
56 BRISBANE ARCADE, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
P.O. Bex 1142 P.
Love Me and the Luck is Yours!
As I was saying to Tabitha: Men are fools; why should they work for
a living when they can pick up wealth like this ? Listen! All you have to
do is to look at me, love me, and the shilling’s mine, so to speak, but
the fortune’s yours* —£10,000 of it. Nobody ever failed who trusted
Peter.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES FIRE BRIGADES’ ART UNION
FOR HOSPITALS, AMBULANCES, AND CHARITY.
(Sanctioned by the Attorney-General)
©
©
I AM PETER .
THE LUCK BRINOER.
TAIS IS YOUR LUCKY OAl'i
SEND ALONG AT ONCE
SUL
■Donald
£lO,OOO in Prizes. First Prize a solid Gold Helmet, valued
at £3000; Second Prize a Golden Casket of Diamonds valued
at £1000; Third Prize a Diamond Tiara valued at £750.
TICKETS: ONE SHILLING.
Six Tickets, 5/; Twelve Tickets, 10/; Twenty-five Tickets, £l.
A Ticket a Day Keeps Misfortune Away!
Send at once. State whether Mr., Mrs., or Miss. Enclose stamped envelope
for result slip. Art Union Drawn on June 1, 1929.
Address: J. J. NEVILLE, Hon. Secretary.
Fire Brigades Headquarters, 213 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
TAKE THE ADVICE OF A WISE OLD TOMCAT AND 808 IN.
I’LL BE HAPPY WHEN THE BOBS COME BOBBING ALONG!
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE.
POISONOUS PDVOtJI
!THE6ROTWS£OOeimm
ē
ĕ
MUSTDIE’
POWDER must not be mistaken for insecti-
cide or common insect powders, some of
which are sold under fancy names, for
“MUSTDIE” contains an ingredient par-
ticularly fatal to that Cummoa house pest
aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.”
“MUSTDIE” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers,
or forward 1/- in stamps to Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney.
u
The Red Page
Novel Competition Inquiries
Though the published conditions of The
Bulletin's 1929 Novel Competition seem
simple and complete enough, almost every
mail brings an inquiry for further informa-
tion.
One writer wishes to know if drawings
accompanying the MS. would give the entry
a better chance. They would not. Illus-
trations are not required at all. The com-
petition is for novels, and only novels will
be considered. This statement touches upon
another inquiry—whether biography written
as a novel would be allowed. Provided the
result is a novel, the material can be
whatever the author chooses. This inquirer
also wishes to know whether twelve months'
residence in Australia makes him eligible
t® compete. It. does, provided he is
definitely settled in this country.
Another asks if the setting must be
Australian. No restriction has been
placed upon the location or style of novels.
Another, who is under contract to submit
two .more option novels to a publisher,
wonders if this reservation of volume rights
would debar him from the competition. It
would not. The Bulletin, however, would
require the publication of any prize story
as a serial, either in its own columns or in
the Woman s Mirror, before the story was
issued in volume form. Apart from that the
copyright of every story will be reserved
to the writer, to whom all profits on the
publication of the story in book form will
belong.
Another inquirer wants to know if he
should divide his entry into serial instal-
ments. He should not. Entries will be
considered from the point of view of
suitability for serial publication, but the
length of the novel is left, to the discretion
of the writer. A novel which goes beyond
100,000 words, however, is not suitable for
serial publication, and something around
80,000 words has been found most suitable.
This inquirer also wishes to know whether
the entry must be in typewriting. Typed
MS. would be preferred, but no objection
will be taken to MSS. written in a clear and
legible handwriting.
The prizes are: First, £400; second, £250;
third, £lOO. The competition will close
on December 31, 1929. at The Bulletin
office, 214 George-street, Sydney.
Every story for competition must be sub-
mitted under a norh dc plume; and the
name and aid dress of the writer, with the
nom dc plume, must accompany.it in a
sealed envelope, which will not be opened
until after the stories have been judged.
Stories submitted for competition must not
have been previously published.
A Kendall Memory
On his twenty-first birthday or there-
abouts Henry Kendall presented to his
sister a little manuscript book which by a
curious chance has come into my possession.
It is tattered and torn. It lacks the cover;
some few leaves are missing, but it con-
tains a good many entries in Kendall’s
characteristic neat script writing. The title
page is inscribed: “Mary Josephine Kendall,
jrom her Brother Henry. April, 1862.”
Eighteen-hundred and sixty-two! This
was the year he sent his first parcel of verses
to the Athenaeum in London, and the same
in which he published in Sydney his first
small book of “Poems and Songs,”
The manuscript book contains nothing
but verse. Some is in the handwriting of
Henry’s mother; much in that of his sister;
a few extracts are by friends and relatives
His own entries fall into two classes—
excerpts from favorite poets, and early ver-
sions of certain of his own poems. Though
hope, like a fiery column, was then brighten-
ing his literary- horizon, it is curious to
note the type of verse that was appealing to
his young manhood. 'He transcribes, for
example, Tennyson’s “The Sailor Boy,” and
adds a note: “His last poem, never pub-
lished in his book. Eighteen-hundred and
sixty-two.” These were the only verses
printed by Tennyson in 1861, hnd had
appeared at Christmas in the “Victoria
Regia,” a volume of miscellanies edited by
Emily Faithful. That they should have
reached the hands of Kendall within four
months of publication is strong evidence of
the influence the older poet was exercising
over the younger. Perhaps it was Kendall’s
memories of those two years before the
mast while whale-fishing' with his uncle
amongst the Pacific islands that caused him
to copy out this poem.
A page or two later he transcribes Keats’s
lines on “The Four Seasons,” from which he
may have gained a suggestion for his own
“Austral Months.” Then he gives us Eben-
ezer Elliott’s “The Plaint”; D. F. Mc-
Arthy’s “Waiting for the Mav” and “Lines
on the Death of an Italian at Sea”; Gerald
Massey’s “Christabel”; Byron’s “O Weep
for Those”; Coleridge’s “The Complaint of
Ninathoma.” whose metre must have been
the attracting force; Mrs. E. B. Brown-
ing’s "Go from Me”; Edgar Allan Poe’s
“Bridal Ballad” and the stanza beginning
“Thou wouldst be loved.” There are also
many isolated stanzas. One of these seems
to be hiss own translation of some lines from
.Goethe, while there are two from “In
Memoriam.”
In his own handwriting there is but one
Australian poem other than his own. It
is Charles Harpur’s “The Voice of the
Native Oak.” His own “The Voice of the
Wild Oak” was written, as he says, “in
the shadow of 1872.” It is not meet here to
discuss in detail Kendall’s borrowings. Many
of his poems are tranquil recollections of
his own early poetical loves, but here he
obviously borrows from Harpur. Compare
Harpur’s stanza
Some lonely spirit that hath dwelt
For ages in one lonely tree—
Some weary spirit that hath felt
The burthen of eternity,
with this from Kendall:
No dazzling dryad, but a dark
Dream-haunted spirit doomed to be
Imprisoned, crarnpt in bands of bark,
For all eternity.
Of Kendall’s own poems, some have been
copied down by his sister, as for example
“By the Sea,”' "Mountain Moss,” “The
Songs of Child? Harold” and “Ruth of the
Dark Eyes.” Others like “The Sunset’s
Fall.” “The River and the Hill” and “A
Mother’s Lament for Ella” are in his own
hand. None is identically the same as the
later published "version. They are nil his
early and unpolished attempts. To his
stanzas which begin “The sunset’s fall”
there is here added an additional unpub-
lished one’: —
And it’s here a gloomy mountain towers,
With walls of elift and cavern? hoar;
But. I listen in vain, through the wind and the rain,
For a voice that will find me no more.
There arc two poems which do not appear
in any of the collected editions of Ken-
dall’s work, and may never have been pub-
lished. One is “Ruth of the Dark Eyes,”
the other “A Mother’s Lament for Ella,”
the melody of which is typically Kcndall-
esque:-
There are at least two other interesting
entries. One is entitled “A Reverie. Im-
promptu,” and is signed by Basil E. Kendall,
the poet’s twin brother. The other, written
in a tiny copper-plate hand, is headed
“Memento” and Bears the name of James
L. Michael. April 11, 1862. There are
but four short stanzas. As Michael was
Kendall’s first mentor and inspirer, it is
most fitting that these, his words of affec-
tion, should not be allowed to die:—
Within the compass of this' little page,
What noble thoughts, what holy things might lie!
Thoughts that should live and burn from age to age
Eternal hopes and truths that cannot die.
My lighter Muse a lower flight essays;
A passing smile, a passing tear, her meed;
Well pleased to gather less unfading bavs,
Pipe simpler ditties-on her simple reed.
So take this trifle. When the time shall come,
In which my little song-life shall be o’er,
The lips that sing this feeble lay be dumb;
When I shall be a memory—and no more,
Then round this page, for thee, that charm shall rise,
The vision of the days that used to be;
And tears, not wholly sad, shall dim thine eyes,
Memorials, not unkind, of them and me.
Three years later his body was found in
the Clarence River, and it was Henry Ken-
dall who wrote his elegy:
Life that flieth like a tune
G. MACKANESS
A MOTHER’S LAMENT FOR ELLA.
The loud river mils to thO' foam-beaten bay,
And the night-gusts are sudden and shrill ;
Rut I stare at the dark, and my thoughts are away
In a desolate grave on the hill.
On the side of a ridge they have heaped the first
mound
For iny child who was taken from me,
And it maddens me, thinking that none are around,
And how lonely the darling must be.
I shuddered last night at the peace on her face —
Oh! if she should start from it there;
And open her eyes in that smothering place
And gasp for a mouthful of air!
“My God! What a thought”—in my terror I spoke—
While the rain drippeth over the stone;
And the . wind sltteth crouched in the dark Native
Oak,
And sobs, like a mourner alone.
“dome back, oh my child,” and 1 flung from the
, bed,
An agony clenched in my hands,
But 1511 a came back, and her bright little head
"Was freed from the funeral bands.
And she wondered and whispered to me of the dream
Which had darkened my soul like a pall:
Then gladness welled up, like a summery stream,
And 1 thanked the good Lord for it all.
Oh! while I was pressing my darling to me,
And the silence was falling in balms,
I awoke in the roar of the storm and the sea
And the tears were all wet on mine arms.
HENRY KENDALL.
The Kick of the Kiwi
Contrasting the slams which Hector
Bolitho has suffered from his follow country-
men with the easy ecstasies of the British
press, Stan East (R.P. 13/3. '29) reaches
the damning conclusion that it is so much
the worse lor the Maorilanders who bite
their thumbs at Hector.
The case, of course, is quite the other way.
When the Times Literary Supplement says
that Bolitho s book “The New Zealanders”
is a model for the series to which it belongs,
it merely establishes the incapacity of th 6
reviewer to whom the book was dished out.
W hen Alan Mulgan, of the Auckland Star,
says that there is not a great deal of
(Continued on page 5.)


“Truth in Advertising" means telling the public
the truth, and Anthony Horderns do this.
Anthony Horderns'
are Sole Agents for
Samson Kerosene Engines
and Direct Coupled Pumping Outfits
These engines conform fully to
Anthony Horderns ’ high standard of value.
Samson—2 Horse-power Engine
Extensively used for driving small concrete mixers,
pumps, drag saws, and for all purposes which require
dependable power up to its capacity. It is designed
to use petrol only, and is furnished with hit-and-miss
type governor. The engine is simple in design and
economical in fuel consumption. Before being released
it is subjected to a rigorous test. Ignition by High
Tension Magneto. Price, each £34
8
*
0
Samson Kerosene Engine—4 Horse-power
The Samson Throttling Governor Engine has been
designed to provide a good, reliable and capable
engine which will deliver steady, even power, using
cheap kerosene. Their high efficiency is due to their
superiority of design and workmanship. Price,
each £59
Agricultural Department—Fourth Floor.
Delivery FREE in City and Suburbs only.
Samson —8 Horse-power Engine
Extremely simple in design and construction.
Throttling governor provides uniform speed and auto-
matic fuel regulation in proportion to the load. Ihe
power impulses are uniform and evenly timed—no
jerking, no racking of driven machines. The Vaporiser
is a special feature. It is remarkably economical, fitted
with auxiliary valve which automatically admits cold
air to heavy loads. No adjustment required to this
part. Engines equipped with British High Tension
Magneto, of rotary type, driven by gearing. This
system eliminates springs, catches and other mechanical
parts liable to cause trouble. Price, each .... £123
□a
Direct-coupled Pumping Outfit
A complete self-contained Pumping Plant, for
pumping from a river, dam or well, where water is
within suction limit. Engine is direct-connected to
Low-down Power Pumps, and mounted on steel base,
forming a complete pumping unit, light, compact and
strong. The engine will run for 1 2 hours on 1 gallon
of petrol, which is an assurance of its economy. Pumps
have bronze valves on bronze seats, solid bronze piston
rods and brass-lined cylinders. Price, each, £49/10/-
USE OUR DEPOSIT-PURCHASE SYSTEM.
This convenient method of buying was introduced to help you. Just leave a small
deposit, pay the balance later as it suits you, and when final payment has been made
the goods will be delivered in the usual way. There is no interest or extra charge.
Anthony Horderns
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIFTED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.


==*
a* v v'j
at 3
5
T‘>.
Wr
fc>U-‘ v
vV^
&
a\
S\W
5^
3^
NS
hipa oiamT?
Cl! a O "I > vj,
JS-
\
V
v m;
r-
•vXK^
VVv,
r V(
V/
V\ ■ ,
. I,
\l
‘N
X \
iii.'i' l
tn mi
fttiiiii l
Tl'tlt)
rs
p>
S',
■t i
m.
iv.
m
i
U VERY Holden Body is checked
for quality, from raw material
to road, in 1213 details. Trained
inspectors permit no departure from
Holden’s World Standard of Quality.
The result:—A model of engineering skill that
will enhance the value of the car you buy.
1213 inspections ensure Holden World
Quality. Insist upon this insurance in
the car you buy.
The emblem of to oriel
quality in motor bodies
HOLDENS
MOTOR BODY BUILDERS
L- I /V\ ITED
ADELAI DE, MELBOURNE, SY DNEY & BRISB A N E


ė
é
A Great Publisher
Hugh 11. Dent, who scouted about Aus-
tralia a year or so ago, has lately supervised
tlio publication of his father’s autobio-
graphy, 'The Memoirs of J. M. I)enl, pro-
duced, of course, at “Everyman’s” own
house. That house has much closer associa-
tion with this part of the world than is
represented in that fleeting visit; another
son of the founder emigrated to Maoriland
years ago in an urgent search of health,
found it, and has been a good churchman
there for years; and, besides that, Dent in
the last year or two has published more
books either by Australians or about Aus-
tralia than perhaps any other British firm.
Another soil was close to the A.I.F. in Galli-
poli. and stayed there, while still another
stayed back in France.
Those tragedies came late in a life which
to anyone interested in the making of
literature is full of color. J. M. Dent,
sprung from more than merely conservative
Church stock, was born in 1549. He was
a dullard at school, and left it for work
“Everyman”
at 13. In his early
youth there are
occasional stolen
visits to the the-
atre, but his rigid
upbringing still in-
fluenced his actions
then, and, indeed,
throughout his life
the shadow stayed
with him. This
and his poor edu-
cation, however,
did not prevent
him from appreci-
ating and publish-
ing good literature,
even of the sort
that upsets the
pallid-brained and
squeamish, when
lie at last came into his own. That was
not until after a fine fight in London, in
which his first wife played a part that even
his praises of her do not fully reveal. Still,
it is possible to read between his simple
lines, and there that woman, toiling to keep
the two of them going while he was strug-
gling to get a footing as a lone-hand worker,
can be seen as the splendid mate she was.
She was the foundation-stone of the House
of Dent.
From those early struggles, taking work
home with him at night, and so on, he
managed before she died to get his feet
firm on the lower rungs. At 25 he was
uoing fairly well, and perhaps was revealing
a little of the solid personality that drew
big names about him later on, for he was
elected a member of a vestry by, he says,
a “gathering of publicans and sinners.”
Considering he stood in the interests of
the Temperance party that was not a bad
personal victory; but, he adds, “so the
interests of the great parish were served.”
Gradually we begin to move up among the
big names, of authors and book series, with
Augustine Rirrcll editing the Temple library,
Austin Dobson looking after the poems and
plays in it, and Edmund Gosse minding a
quarter, too. Then the familiar pocket
Shakspeare in 40 volumes, and the dis-
covery of Boardslej-, about whom he had to
say later that “a taint of evil” had crept
into his fine work.
We come then to Maurice Hewlett, and
there is a charming story, too, about. Pro-
fessor Saintsbury, with a picture of the old
critic protesting as Dent is about to light a
cigar with a match, finally preventing the
sacrilege and taking a burning piece of wood
from the fire with a remark to the effect that
that was the only way to treat a good cigar.
So we move on through the first trans-
lation of the complete Balzac into English,
the publishing of H. CL Wells's first novel,
meeting Andrew Lang and many another
familiar one, to “Everyman,” the great
achievement of Dent’s life. It is an engross-
ing piece of bookish history this stoiy
of “Everyman”: how it was planned and
commenced, and the tremendous demand for
it, so hoped for, and when it came, because
of a hundred things with which only one
intimate with publishing can appreciate, a
sore trial and embarrassment. “Every-
man” was born in 190(5; to-day it, holds
more than 800 different works that have
been tested by time, and the number is
steadily growing.
J. M. Dent died in 192(5. Ho had done
literature a great, service and lmd estab-
lished a tradition for a great publishing
house that, is not losing sight of the ideals
upon which it was built.
A Satchel of Books
,1 World Oulook, by \V. Watkin Davies
(Methuen). Lectures delivered for Bir-
mingham University and the W.K.A. They
broadly cover existing international relation-
ships, and examine causes of war, color
problems, IT.S.A. and Mexico, and the League
of Nations and other attempts at arbitra-
tion.
The (icoryian Xorcl and Mr. Robinson, by
Storm Jameson (lleinemann). "Mr. Robin-
son” is a reasonably intelligent average
reader whom Storm Jameson makes accom-
pany him on an exploration of present (lay
novel-writing. An engaging piece of writing,
shrewdly critical and, considering its brevity,
remarkably comprehensive.
The Importance of -/ora Seen from the Air,
by 11. AL d<- Aries (KollT. Batavia). This
handsome volume, printed entirely in Java,
is an example of the, seriousness with which
our energelie neighbors in the North are de-
veloping aviation. It is illustrated with
hundreds of photographs taken from the air.
It, reveals the, world's loveliest and most
populous tropical island as an amazing hive,
of modern industry, as unlike some recent
idiotic stage presentations of the, tropics as
anything could be.
The Banana Skin, by Edward Jacomh
(Braybrook and Dobson). Interesting quite
apart from its being a very readable humor-
ous yarn. It is published in paper covers
and offered at 2s. (id. (London price) ,in
pursuance of the publishers’ belief that,
“there are many who cannot afford to pay
the ordinary price of Ts. lid.” The story is
good in a racy way; the author gives a new
twist to the old syntlietic-gbld idea by mak-
ing a British scientist use tlic discovery to
pay off the American debt.
Falmouth for Orders, by A. ,T. Villiers
(Bles). The story of last year's great race
between the, sailers Herzogin Cecilie and
Beatrice from Australia to Falmouth. The
author, a journalist of the Hobart Mercury
staff, shipped as an A.B. with the winner,
llerzogin Cecilie. He has set down a care-
ful narrative of the progress of that ship
and of the life aboard, which was complicated,
by the presence of a young woman school-
teacher, of Adelaide, who stowed away from
Port Lincoln. Her presence was not accep-
ted as a blessing, but; as far as this narrative
goes that is what it amounted to —it turned
what might have been a rather dry tale into
a colorful romance of the sea. The story is
well written and profusely illustrated.
Modern Problems in Biology, by William
J. Dakin (Benn; Roycroft). Rather more
technical in phraseology than arc most of
the booklets in Bonn’s splendid “Sixpenny”
Library, this essay holds special interest. The
author was Professor of Biology in the Utii.
of W.A. until 1921, when he went to a
.similar post at Liverpool Uni., and he has
now returned as Professor of Biftlogy at Syd-
ney Uni. In his booklet he touches upon Aus-
tralia’s prickly-pear problem, and mentions
that, though a speaker a few years ago was
able to say that while he had been talking
100 more acres had been covered by the pest,
this rate of increase had been arrested, and
15,000,000 insects had been released to carry
on the good work. They have about
00,000,000 acres on which to amuse them-
selves. Professor Dakin is also author of a
fine book on pearling, in the Home University
Library.
Gallantry and The Line of Love, by James
Branch Cabell (Bodley Head). The first
of these two welcome additions to the now
long list of Cabell is another “Chivalry”—
semi-connected stories set in Jacobean Eng-
land and France, a little slight as to plot
and with characters that are sometimes only
puppets, but written with the gusto, the
humor and that mastery of archaic but mag-
nificent prose that go to make Cabell one
of the very greatest Americans. It may
be simply because America is geographi-
cally closer to Europe that Americans are
accepting Europe as a setting or background
as natural to their prose writings as is their
own country, whereas if an Australian sets
a novel abroad nobody here thinks of the
work as Australian. America’s creative
writers —that is, her intellectual leaders and
prophets—are cutting away from parochial-
ism. Here, nearly all our writers cling tena-
ciously to the national and ignore the uni-
versal. “The Line of Love” is a fellow with
“Chivalry” and “Gallantry.” Like them, it
represents the earlier Cabell, though in his
introduction 11. L. Mencken implies that it
is considerably revised. “Once,” says
Mencken, “a flavor of the rococo hung about
it: now it breathes and moves. For Cabell
knows a good deal more than he knew iu
1905.” - - - •
Answers to Correspondents.
•Vo notice (except of a hostile character) trill be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MS. So liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; ana no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
E.M.L.: Its the first tiling every New
Guinea official writes. So, that got rid of, we
encourage you to go ahead... .Namoi: Can’t get it
down... . Z.V.: Saw it coming as soon as it showed
its first grey whisker.... Emily G.: Sent back with
more than ordinary regret. It is the end that seems
hurried and weak... .D.T.H.: Yes, many a time
after we’ve read it in print we have wondered why
some poor thing was accepted. Still the standard
of the short story has been raised tremendously
during the past couple of years... .G.It.S.: Well
done; but we’re on strike at the moment against
such gloomy endings... .0.L.M.: Sorry... .Crofter:
Hut Dailey’s article dealt chiefly with the fertile
south of England, not the rugged north of Scotland.
I.E.G.: Gracefully enough written, but leads to
inexplicable conclusion... .Betty B.: With tiie final
rhyme altered you might market it elsewhere. . . .
E.K.L.: Neither impresses... .A. 8.: “Troops in
Egypt” ordered to report immediately to W.P.B
Flo: Add a p T.W.: Harrowed by idea of dying
sun leaving \ou the “shadows on the silvery stream ’
in his will R.C.M-K.: Very crude.... Badilta :No
luck A.A.G.: Only one interesting line in story
of caveman wlio “had taught himself by pursuing
newspapers’*.. . .F. 0.: Interesting character sketch,
but can’t fit it in E.M.H.: A too-oft-told tale....
C. Hass: “Chuinpy” disrated T.S.: Buried deep.
. ...M.M.: “The good ship Phantom, her very frame
did gurgle.” Well, we won’t stop it....
W.li.C.: Neither king nor whisker tempts
us. ... Wader: Ingenious, but out of place
here. ... W.E.F.: Too obvious. ... M. A. L.: “I am
16 and am enclosing my first valiant efforts in
literature. And, please, what does ‘w.p.b.’ mean?”
In your case it means Wc Pass H.v.
. ...0.R.: That “Road” doesn’t cull for an ode; it
needs a steam-roller. .. .M. 8.: The spade now a scry
worn hoc. ...N.8.: Not enough meat on the bone.
....C.H. (Idaho): “All eminent American doctor
says” is far too vague. We like to know what, why,
where and when, including wh0.... L.U.L-W.: Rook
titles as topic for Red Page article worn out
Q.P. : ’Ad enough of ’Ector. .. .W.K.: Could do with
a sound article on Maori land writers. Yours is a
very loose sketch.... L. S.B. : Fair in their way, but
not. our-. .. . N.t’.M.: You may have “aptitude for
the art," but evidence to hand is not convincing.
... Motiiku: "The Samisen" smashed with the office
saxophone. . . .F.A.L.: All rather pointless. . . .Dig:
Sincere, but that’s all E..T.K.: Not our sort
H.M.: Prophecy probably sound; verse mostly ditto.
. ...If.W.: "Hell" was so good that it burnt the
bottom out of the basket. ...D.H.S.: Notice that we
“won't, be rid o£ me until my works bare made a
showing” received with yelps. ... W.T.0.: Not. Ibis
time T.H.: Vague, introspective and lost in a
maze of psychology... .W. 8.: Unconvincing.. ■ .Wade
U.: You say Horace “bit the ear of a Scotchman
for live shillings.” Then you are hot, without imagi-
nation .... W.P.: But anything may happen on a
Queensland railway line. .. .M. 8.: Distorted senti-
ment C.D.: Is it ever too late for a woman to
spend ?.... D. T.S.: Philosopher sent to the tub....
J.S.G.: P00r... .P.L.: As weak as , no, even
water's stronger... .Screw: “The Eel King” kicked
out of the palate 1.K.5.: Fair—but scores can
Jo that. ... E.K.l’.: An idea or two, but a rough
]>UN.-ago to ’em.... I-’. M. 0.: Look our pages over
again. .. .Swastika : Exit tiie cook:—
The cod, now cleaned and ready, hung in the
butcher’s shop,
He dreamt of fish for breakfast, instead of mutton
chop.
Awakening next morning', to the babbling brook he
took it.
Hut to his indignation the blighter wouldn’t cook it.
’.Mid the shouts of disapproval, which arose upon
tiie scene,
We demanded his removal in a manner unforeseen.
The boss, he gratified us, for he granted our rei|iiest ;
The now cook satisfied us; and lie’ll cook fish with
the best.
. ...O.O.: Whatever it may be, “On a long drawn-
out afternoon of gold” is not verse. .. .N.N.: Interest
in each too restricted.... Cygnet: Lock-out declared
against “The Mariners”.... N.K.C.: No strength in
that lot. .. . W.M.: Frail idea. .. .0.11. M.: Could find
only one MS. enclosed. Perhaps it suffocated the
other en route. .. .Emuh: Jt must be a great roll-up
the night you aspiring poets gather to inspect
Nocturne.... H.G.: Not a thing in it... .W.H.M.:
Firmly refuse to “wire a couple of good horses every
Friday to have a bet on of a Saturday,” even if you
are “willing to return something for the trouble”. ...
.T.V.F.: Not bad for a student, though unsuitable
here. Try contributing to your district papers....
0.15. V. (Coonia) : Holding 0ne.... Streph : It’s a
matter of opinion. Our sporting man considers
Aurum the best horse be ever saw—but he never
saw’ Carbine... .E.M.H.: Rather much of “Hie in-
scrutability of the East,” though written with some
strength... .1’.0.A.: Amounts paid by the Common-
wealth in pensions last year: War, £7,485,000 ; old
age, .CO,019,000; invalid, .£2,821,000; maternity
allowances cost £678,900. .. .N.Q.: Cairns bad an
enrolment of 7808 last time. McCormack got I .11
of 6840 effective votes polled. .. .(EM. : Dismal slorj ;
even copper can be brightened Max: Look bn-
something better from Fort-street A.. 1.11.: Too
slight.... A. K.8.R.: Have read something of the kind
before. .. .A.T.: You have a lot to learn. .. .C.K.T.:
Makes too heavy a draft, on credulity 1.W.T.:
Graphic, if gruesome, but not a story... .W.S.P.:
Tale of the Lady Cynthia, the vicar and the baronet
should just suit your parish magazine.... E.S.: Your
earthquake too upsetting. ... P.W.: Pretty near.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
K.E.M. : Grim jest suitable for an undertakers’
smocial.. .. H.T.: All scratches and blots. . . .G.F.:
So friendly was your covering letter that we should
like to praise your work but, honestly, we can’t. .. .
F.S.: An eyesore. . ■ .F.L.H.: Was it because you
were ashamed of the thing that you tried to bid-
the signature in the middle '!.... R.P.: Visiting-card
drawing and an old music-hall gag. . . .T.E.L.: Im-
possible to laugh at that A.C.G.: Lumpy figures
cavorting in a sea of wash.


ę
ě
j-vm.
Sp ir A l
B. SEPPEtT » SONS UMf
SOOTH AUSTRAUA
w.
e
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD*


The Bulletin
Vol. 50.—N0. 2560.
April 17, 1929.
WELL, LET HIM TAKE IT!
“The U.S.A. Government lays claim to Antarctica on the grounds of alleged discoveries by Capt. Wilkes in 1840. Subsequent explorers have come to the conclusion that
Wilkes discovered no land, but mistook ice and clouds for the Polar continent.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
£li George Street, Sydney.
Victoria : lli-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: £45 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London: 36 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: l£ months, £1 45. : 6 months, l£s. 6d. ;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: IS months, £1 lUs.;
6 months, 15s. 6d. ; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: JOoz., Id. United Kingdom: 4oz. to Woe., lid.;
each additional ioz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possess-ions and U.S.A.: ioz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, £oz., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
bed page LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 6
KENDALL—-HIS SCRAPBOOK 2
PUBLISHER “EVERYMAN” DENT .. ..5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. .. 5
A LEASON CARTOON 7
EDITORIALS 8> e
The Queensland Election .. 8
Australia or Canada? •• -.8
DISADVANTAGE OF BEING A WOMAN .. 8
The Moral of the Mudbank 8
“BACK TO THE JOB',” a Percival Cartoon .. 9
POLITICS (with caricatures) . . .. .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. .. 11, 12
PERSONAL (with caricatures) . . .. .. 14
POVERTY POINT 15
“THE DOG IN THE MANGER,” by Scorfleld .. 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..17
PAVLOVA’S RETURN 17
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
WUNDERLICH’S 18
Perkins’ Brewery 18
AMALGAMATED PICTURES 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 23,25
Free Service Department .. 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 29
LIME REQUIREMENTS OF STOCK .. ..28
SMOKE-OH 32
“A Rogue in Amber” ..33, 55, 58
PEN AND PICTURE 37
NEW MOVIES AND TALKIES .. ..37
SPORTING (Illustrated) 39, 41, 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 44
The Country Women in Town •• 44
Norman Lindsay’s Latest Pictures .. 44
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE .. .-. -.46
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 49
VERSE 53, 65
Two Complete Stories—
“TEN THOUSAND YEN,” by Erie A. Wilson 51, 53
“THE BIG TREE,” by J. H. M. Abbott 57, 58
fyullzix/fl
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 17, 1929.
THE QUEENSLAND ELECTION.
Queensland has an election at hand, and
the Labor Ministry, which has held office
since June, 1915, is making another bid for
office, and blowing its time-payment
trumpet with vigor. It has held on for so
many years because the electoral rolls are
stuffed with the names of the dead and
otherwise departed, the unborn and the
imaginary, and the State electorates are
gerrymandered in addition. So the
dominant party had no difficulty last time
in returning 43 members out of 72 in
the solitary State House, though Queens-
land’s contribution to the Federal House of
Reps, is two Laborites out of 10, and to
the Senate none out of six; total two
Federal Laborites out of 16. The honesty
of the Federal electoral system explains the
difference.
The programme of Premier McCormack
is the habitual review of what his Govern-
ment says it has done in promoting industry,
progress, happiness and the graces and
amenities of life. His claims are worth in-
vestigation.
Something particularly remarkable has
been accomplished, he says, in the promo-
tion of agriculture. Y’et Queensland has
still the smallest acreage under crop among
the six States in regard to both size and
population, the latest figures being as
follows: —
Acres under Crop,
Per 100,000
Per 1000 Acres
Inhabitants. • of Area.
Westralia .. .. .. 8777 533
S. Australia . . 6857 1597
Victoria .. • • 2766 8419
N. S. Wales .. .. 1957 2319 v
Tasmania .. .. 1347 1725
Queensland .. .. 1068 219
Queensland was at the bottom when the
Labor Ministry took office 14 years ago,
and it remains there, or gets further down;
and in the interval the State’s area under
sugar-cane increased by 113,493 acres, which
prevented the downwardness being so
marked as it nr>ht be. The State has a
practical monopoly of Australia’s sugar
industry. This brings in £6,000,000 a year,
which is half the total agricultural in-
come, and it does this because the
Federal tariff absolutely shuts out foreign
competition. No sane person grudges this;
but if McCormack claims the sugar indus-
try as a triumph of local Labor control, his
inaccuracy runs Ananias a dead heat.
It is further claimed that something re-
markable and meritorious has been done
by the Ryan-Theodore-Gillies-McCormack
dynasty—the Rydorgilmack dynasty for
short—in promoting the pastoral industry,
which includes sheep, beef-beasts, horses and
pigs. But when 1915, the year Labor took
office, is compared with 1926, the last year
covered by the Federal “Year Book,” the
progress is hard to find. The case may be
put in this way:—
Beasts per 100 Square Miles.
1915. 1920. Increase.
Victoria . . . . 13,906 19,444 5478
N. S. Wales . . 11,601 19,221 7620
Tasmania . . .. 7,146 7,996 850
Queensland.. .. 3,212 3,442 230
S. Australia .. 1,111 2,088 977
Westralia .. .. 599 873 -74
By comparison this, as well as the agricul-
tural situation, is a pathetic showing, especi-
ally after so much insufferable boasting
about how the men in power were saving
their State, to say nothing of Australia in
general and the universe at large.
In other respects the Queensland Labor
leader, who asks for a renewal of public
confidence in his party’s 14th year of power
and salary, finds himself very short of
material. His crowd inherited a railway
system which had a fixed habit of making
a profit over working expenses and interest.
It had done that on a handsome scale for
seven years before the new Saviours of the
Country took charge, and one year’s profits
reached £553,998. Labor has produced
13 railway deficits, the largest being
£1,890,362. In doing this it has created
a set of decayed and disorderly rail-
ways which run themselves much as they
please. The State taxation in 1926-27 was
the heaviest per inhabitant among the
mainland States. In the rate of factory wages
Queensland comes fourth, being behind
N. S. Wales, S. Australia and Westralia,
and also behind the six States’ average. It
has only 546 out of, every 10,000 inhabitants
employed in factory industries, whereas the
average of the six States is 765 per 10,000.
The last year when Queensland previously
showed as poor a proportion of factory
workers was 1909, and in the interval the
figure has been as high as 649. No other
State shows a slump at all resembling this,
and it is to be hoped that none ever will.
These few remarks cover some of the pre-
liminary features of the McCormack elec-
tion campaign, but plenty more will arise
as the shindy progresses.
CANADA IS BEATING US.
The Canadian Treasurer announced in his
Budget speech that there would be a sur-
plus of just on 70,000,000 dollars for the
financial year closing on March 31, and that
another 70,000,000 dollars had been taken
off the national debt, while figures for 10
months showed a favorable trade balance
of 154,000,000 dollars. He added that there
would be a further reduction of taxes
amounting to 25,000,000 dollars. The
Queensland Treasurer, while claiming credit
for a “surplus” of £10,506 last year (he
admits a loan expenditure of over
£4,000,000), says that the Commonwealth
and the other five States had deficits
exceeding £7,000,000, and the Common-
wealth Statistician records that £30,000,000
has been added to the Commonvvealth-and-
States debts, while exports were worth
£5,000,000 less than imports. And the
Treasurer of the State with nearly two-
fifths of the Australian population has just
increased his income-tax substantially,
besides commanding employers to find £2
in the £lOO of wages and salaries to finance
a child-endowment scheme which has be-
come an unemployed-relief measure to a
large extent.
In all this there is nothing unusual. For
year after year Canada has had a healthy
trade balance and a large revenue sur-
plus, with systematic reduction of the
national debt and direct taxes, while debts,
deficits and taxes have mounted in Aus-
tralia and Australian exports have regu-
larly failed to overtake Australian imports.
Canadians have little faith in Govern-
ment loan works “to increase the produc-
tion of wealth and absorb the unemployed.”
Their national debt at March 31, 1928,
amounted to, roughly, £460.000,000, having
been reduced by £10,250,000 in a twelve-
month; the Commonwealth debt at June,
30, 1927, was reckoned at £461,087,000 and
that of the States, at £679,223,000 —■
£1,043,700,000 altogether, after deduction of
debts counted twice. Quebec, with about
the same population as N. S. Wales
(2,450,000), owed at June 30, 1927, a little
under £12,000,000; N. S. Wales owed
£240,781,000. The Nova Scotian debt in
1926 (population, about 600,000) was just
over £7,000,000; that of South Australia
(population, 560,000) was £81,473,000. Not
being an incessant and unwelcome borrower
in foreign markets, Canada’s credit stands
high, and the taxpayers reap the benefit.
When a war loan fell due last year, the
Minister of Finance got the money at 4 p.c.
Australia is paying 5i p.c. on its latest local
flotation and the interest is free of State
income-tax.
Canadian ideas about direct taxation also
differ from those dominant in Australia.
The Liberals now in office have no great
opinion of the income-tax, and aspire to
wipe it out. There was a 10 p.c. cut in
1927 and another last year; there is an
exemption of 10,000 dollars for married
persons, with an additional 500 dollars for
each child under 21, and companies pay
8 p.c. of their profits—in Australia they
pay Is. in the £1 Federal tax, from 2s. to
3s. 3d. in the £ additional in N. S. Wales,
and up to 4s. in the £ ordinary State tax
plus a 20 p.c. super tax in Queensland.
Income-tax revenue in Canada for the latest
recorded year was a mere £11,310,000. In
Australia,with 34 millions.fewer people.it was
over £26,648.000—£11,126,278 Federal and
£15,521,962 State. Our State income-tax
collections were greater than the revenue
from all sources of all the Canadian Pro-
vinces except Ontario and Quebec. The
Canadians derive a considerable part of
their national revenue from a sales tax
and taxes on steamer and railway tickets,
sleeping berths and the like. This group
of imposts brought in nearly 83 million
dollars last year. The sales tax is regarded,
not only as an important source of revenue,
but as a useful adjunct to the Protective
tariff, for Canadian articles are, generally
speaking, exempt. It has been as high as
6 p.c., but, as the general situation has
grown more and more favorable, has been
gradually reduced to 2 p.c.
Canada doesn’t go in for compulsory
trade-unionism, or basic-wage commissions,
or arbitration courts, or anything like that.
It believes that the less Government
meddles in industry the better for both em-
ployers and employees; and as warrant for
its belief it can point to prosperous in-
dustries, recent wage-increases in many
trades, low unemployment returns and com-
parative freedom from strikes. In 1927
the number of disputes was 79, the number of
workmen involved 22,683, the number of
working days lost 165,288. Australia, with
its expensive apparatus of industrial tri-
bunals, had 441 strikes, 200,757 involved
employees and 1,731,581 lost working days
in that same year.
In short, Canada is beating us badly, and
we ought to be too proud to let Canada
beat us badly, though not too proud to
learn from its example.
THE DISADVANTAGE OF BEING A
WOMAN.
It is being contended by a passionate
combination of women, politicians and a
daily paper that the prejudice against Julia
Flynn is one of sex. But the opposition
goes deeper than that. The whole ques-
tion of women’s place in Victorian educa-
tion has been keenly canvassed for years,
and the Flynn affair is really (to use the
forensic terms of the Federal Treasurer) an
abscess that has at last broken.
The problem is deeply psychological, with
ordinary departmental discipline entering
as a side-line. Almost from the beginning
of the Victorian State-school system, but
strongly since women adopted, and men
more and more disdained, the profession of
school-teacher, women have enjoyed the
grievance that they could not reach the
topmost positions, the Class I billets, more
executive than teaching in character. They
were encouraged to attain Class 11, and
were welcomed and honored when there, but
there they had to stop, whatever
their qualifications of knowledge and ex-
perience. This rankled, especially in the
case of women who had almost reached the
forbidden rank. They held that the inhibi-
tions levelled against young women teach-
ers—in brief, that girls undertook teach-
ing only as a temporary vocation pending
adoption of the permanent one of married
woman, and thereby did not deserve the
status and pay of men in the vocation for
life—did not apply to women of their age.
Such women must be at least middle- ged
to have gained senior qualification; their
inclination to retire into matrimony was
slight, and they might be reasonably pre-
sumed to be as permanent as men teachers
of their age. This argument was answered
officially, and by male teachers, with the
counter that sweetness of working in big
schools was likely to be prejudiced if a
woman was set in supreme command where
there were on a staff men of Class II stand-
ing. This rule held so firmly that, despite
the years of agitation, only one woman-
teacher rose to the headship of a Class I
school, and her claims were very excep-
tional.
The general attitude of men in the ser-
vice was that generous one accorded by
men to all women’s strivings for emanci-
pation: approval-with reservations. They
applauded the upward march of the sex—
to a certain stage. Thus far and no farther.
The limit they set was that cf second-in-
command of a first-class school. It gave
the woman tremendous kudos, and it did
not impose on the sex that for ages long
has been dominant the humiliation of being
rated second to one to whom they were
equal in qualifications. It was not the equal
pay for equal work that jarred, nor the
equality of status between high-class woman
and high-class man, but the hint of inferi-
ority implied in a woman being chief over
men—perhaps a score of men.
Officialdom realised this and feared the
effect, sub-conscious rather than outward,
on discipline in premier-grade schools.
Women were encouraged and honored
throughout the service, and the number vho
hold second-in-command positions and
headship of sections in primary and
higher schools is many. This applied right
up to the office of first-assistant inspec-
tor of schools, held so successfully by Miss
Flynn. When it became necessary to fill
the position of chief inspector, however, all
the old inhibitions against a woman arose.
It was not against the woman in the case,
but against the idea of any woman at the
top. The qualifications of the particular
woman were not faulted; indeed, she had
been an excellent first-assistant, and had
all the paper-qualities a chief inspector
needed. The results are well known: Miss
Flynn's own past chief was against her;
so were her men-equals. So, no doubt, was
the service generally; for even a woman is
by no means in love with being inspected
and “told off” by a woman.
The deposition of Miss Flynn at the
end of her two periods of probation sug-
gests that the man-conceived fears for the
success of the experiment of a woman-chief
were fulfilled; that the effect on discipline
was as anticipated. To protest that action
was taken on the grounds of sex alone is
an insult to the intelligence of a highly
efficient and thoroughly sane State service.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Naval Delusion.
“Ezra”: “J.H.M.A.,” in his “The Great
Aircraft Illusion” (B. 3/4/’29), brands him-
self as great a fanatic for his line of war-
fare as the aviation enthusiast he so caus-
tically criticises. The Navy can no more
win a war than an air force can. It is
still the work of the P. 8.1. [short title
for Poor Blanky Infantry], as it was in
the days of the Romans, and will be as
far ahead as we can see at present. The
Navy and air forces are auxiliary to the
land forces, and cannot defeat an enemy
and occupy his territory any more than
the artillery of the land forces could win
a battle by themselves. Though the French
sea-power was destroyed at Trafalgar in
1805, the following year saw the French
in Berlin and Europe under the feet of
Napoleon for the next seven years. And
this in spite of the British blockade.
It is the want of appreciation of the
Navy’s true role (the keeping open of the
sea-routes for trade, and the transport of
troops, which necessitates fighting) that has
caused some of Britain’s greatest disasters.
The attempted forcing of the Dardanelles
before the landing of troops, though it
almost succeeded, was a lamentable stra-
tegic blunder, for without troops ashore,
though the ships might have shelled Con-
stantinople to small pieces, they could not
have held the city, nor have returned. Then,
in spite of the blockade, Turkey carried on
for three years, and was only subdued by
decisive defeats of her principal land forces
in Mesopotamia and Palestine by our land
forces. Historical instances could be mul-
tiplied, but it should suffice that the Central
Powers almost won the war even though
we had command of the seas.
To assert that the position of Britain and
Australia is analogous and that an effec-
tive blockade would strangle Australia is
ridiculous. Britain is dependent for her
food from overseas, and must dominate
the seas in time of war. With Australia
the situation is different. Our small popu-
lation can easily maintain itself without im-
portation of food, and a war crisis would
stimulate us to be self-supporting also in
munitions and manufactures. It is gener-
ally recognised that raids and landings favor
the raider, and not all the navies and air
forces in the world could prevent troops
landing somewhere on our coast. But it is
another matter to maintain the invading
forces, and it would be the ships carrying
reinforcements and supplies that would be
discovered and attacked by both ships and
aeroplanes.
In this regard the aeroplanes are best for
reconnaissance, and as they are quite useful
at torpedo-dropping or -bombing, it would
be an unhappy time for the transport or
cruiser discovered within 200 miles of our
coast, and with great probability of being
sunk or crippled by opponents who, if shot
down, represented only two men each. That
is the economy which aviation enthusiasts
speak of. For an aeroplane, economic in
both price and personnel, is a striking force
with a radius of action of about 400 miles,
yet capable of sending a £1,000,000 ship and
its vast human complement to the bottom.
Even though tactics in the next war will
have to be modified to some extent because
aeroplanes can now carry a platoon of men
(and 16 of them could land a battalion on
an enemy’s communications), aircraft are
not, and no sensible being would claim that
they are, a means of defence in themselves.
But in Iraq they are doing much, and have
allowed the land forces to be reduced to
skeleton dimensions. At sea they can do
more, in reconnaissance, attack and
defence. The brilliant example of the
evacuation of the 500 civilians from Kabul
recently shows their increasing usefulness,
range and carrying power; but, though they
may bomb, gas, torpedo and reconnoitre,
and though the ships of the Navy may raid
or fight, battles will still be fought and
won by the foot-sloggers—with the nave
and air forces as useful assistants.
The Moral of the Mudbank.
Few events in the post-war history of the
Commonwealth have stirred the Australian
people so profoundly as the casting-awnv
and rescue of the quartette of aviators in the
Southern Cross. Great daring deserves great
good luck, though it doesn’t always get
it, and Smith and his colleagues have no
reason to quarrel with the Fates.
Australia gets something more out ot
the incident than a thrill. It has learned
something of the extent of its aerial re-
sources. and is in a better position than ever
before to gauge the comparative value, from
the standpoint of national defence, of the


BACK TO THE JOB.
“All traces of the Sydney Show have now been removed.”— News item.
CHORUS OF DEPENDANTS: “Good-bye, and remember your country needs you—to make more money for us.”
Government-controlled R.A.A.F. and the
Government-subsidised privately-owned air
services.
We have been told by various brass-
hatted birdmen that the civilian flier, while
he may make a promising recruit, isn’t
much good in active service till he has a
thorough training in one or some of the
highly-specialised duties that a defence air
force must undertake. It seemed a reason-
able argument. Running over an estab-
lished route equipped with fuel depots,
aerodromes and landing-grounds is one
thing. Responding to the emergency call
of invasion in a continent with so vast a
coastline as ours is quite another.
But when emergency did arise—mercifully
not a matter of invasion—what happened?
Australia spent, up to June of last year,
£1,845,801 on the equipment of the R.A.A.F.
In addition there has been considerable
expenditure on the air branch of the R.A.N.
—over £1,000,000 for an aircraft carrier, the
Albatross, is one item. It might be thought
that the primary business of defensive air
forces in a country as large and as sparsely
populated as this would be scouting; but
Australia, it would appear, has no defence
’planes capable of long-distance scouting,
arid lacks landing-grounds on vast stretches
of its coast—the best roosting-place the
Southern Cross could find was a mudbank.
When the call for aid came, all that the
R.A.A.F. could do was to set about recon-
ditioning a seaplane that hadn't been fit to
fly for months, and which, when the
mechanics had done with it, wasn’t able to
undertake a trans-continental flight. On
the twelfth day after the Southern Cross
vanished from human ken the Albatross was
despatched from Sydney on a week’s jour-
ney to the Westralian coast, and she car-
ried six seaplanes of an antiquated pattern
—very expensive, very heavy, and of so
limited a cruising range that their useful-
ness in the search they were intended to
make was extremely problematical. For-
tunately for the missing men, civil aviators
from the Westralian commercial service,
aided later by a big up-to-date passenger
’plane from Sydney, were on the job with a
minimum of delay, and located the cast-
aways an hour or two after the Albatross
left Sydney Heads.
The moral is fairly plain. The Common-
wealth Government’s policy of encouraging
civil aviation has abundantly justified itself
from a defence standpoint. The official air
defence forces have proved inadequate to
perform the most elementary of their duties.
❖
Medicine, Law and the Press.
About a more or less domestic-matter:—
Early last year The Bulletin’s young
sister, the Woman’s Mirror, printed the
opinion of a medical contributor that the
practice of Twilight Sleep, used sometimes in
childbirth, was dangerous; he added in a very
general way that “it had been practically
abandoned, except by a few quacks.” Dr.
G. S. Thompson, of Coogee, who uses this
method, thought he was indicated, and
though, as a matter of fact, the Mirror did
not even know that Dr. Thompson used Twi-
light Sleep, a jury, after listening to a charge
by Mr. Justice James, awarded the plain-
tiff £250 damages.
His Honor seemed to be most influenced
by the fact that the defendant paper called
no evidence in support of this medical contri-
butor’s hostile opinion. Obviously, however,
to have done so would have committed the
paper to a position of hostility towards Twi-
light Sleep, whereas its position is that
of an inquirer—it says that not sufficient
evidence is thus far available, and that the
whole matter ought to be inquired into.
Which was why this doctor’s opinion was
printed in the first place: Dr. Thompson’s
opposite opinion would have been printed
just as gladly.
Of course, a stay of proceedings was
granted with a view to an appeal. The plain-
tiff has, however, intimated that, while he
still approves of the verdict, he does not im-
pugn the Mirror’s impartiality, and does
not impute to it the smallest trace of malice;
and, a compromise having been reached on
the question of damages—“as a gesture of
friendliness,” on Dr. Thompson’s part —the
defendants abandoned the appeal.
Although it is no part of the terms of
settlement, The Bulletin and the Mirror
are glad to add that the idea of suggesting
that Dr. Thompson was a quack never occur-
red to anybody concerned in the publication.
Whether Twilight Sleep is a good practice
or not, Dr. Thompson is a highly-qualified
practitioner, and his sincerity is beyond
question.
Beam and Cable.
The Senate inquiry into beam-wireless
charges provides the usual spectacle of a
collection of amateurs asking another col-
lection of amateurs questions which are
mainly irrelevant. One such witness told
the committee that “if it were possible to
adopt a wireless charge of one penny a word
the system would be revolutionised.” Of
course it would! The first thing that would
happen would be that the cables, including
those owned by the people of Australia,
would lose all their traffic. Their owners
would then abandon them, and Australia
would be left open to the risk of being
completely isolated if, and when, another
war came along.
No doubt existing rates could be reduced
a bit, but they cannot be reduced below
a figure at which the combined cable and
wireless services can be economically
worked. At the present stage of telegraphic
science, it probably costs more than a penny
in wages merely for an operator to translate
a word into Morse signals, and for an opera-
tor at the other end to translate it back
again and get it sent out by a slow-footed
boy on a bicycle to the addressee.
♦
The Soviet Is Willing.
The Old Man in London has lost control
of his own market to a disastrous extent,
and lost employment to a disastrous extent
likewise, in his morbid terror of being
called a Protectionist, like the prosperous
Yankee. So strange things are liable to
happen to him. Last year, for instance, the
United States sold to him 188 million
pounds’ worth of goods, and bought from
him 40 millions’ worth, and held out a
clutching hand for the difference in cash.
Some of this adverse balance was unavoid-
able, but a good deal represented work
which the Briton could have done for him-
self, but which he preferred to give away
as a proof that he still hangs on to a frag-
ment of his old superstition as a drowning
angel might hang to a cloud.
A more interesting case is that of another
bad customer, Soviet Russia. The Bol-
shevik certainly can’t complain that the
Old Man has treated him badly, for Britain
bought from him last year to the value of
£21,548,000 and sold to him only £2,715,000
worth. The difference went into the stone-
broke Soviet Treasury, foreign commerce
being a Government monopoly. Naturally,
then, it is anxious to do business on a much
larger scale. Hundreds of millions are
mentioned in a casual way.
With tßis and much other information
for its guidance a party of British business
men has gone to Moscow to survey the
ground. It might have done better to staj'
where it was, and survey the wasted and
neglected possibilities of the home market.
But if the Freetraders come to power the
home matket will become more wasted and
neglected, and the inclination of the Brit-
ish manufacturer to take a chance with the
promissory notes of foreign objectionables
will correspondingly increase. He is in-
formed in advance that the orders are ready
and the p.n. is waiting.
♦
Monkeying with International Rights.
Officialdom notoriously runs mad in
America. The sinking of the Canadian
vessel I’m Alone far outside Treaty waters
by an American coastguard vessel, and the
incarceration of her commander and crew
in irons in a New Orleans calaboose, is a
striking case in point. The Americans
alleged the ship was a notorious rum-
runner, and she possibly was. But by sink-
ing her in blue water the Americans
destroyed their evidence, and placed them-
selves at once in the position of defendants
with a bad case to answer. The result has
been an abject climb-down on the part of
the U.S. officials, whose knuckles must
be smarting under the impact of the Wash-
ington ruler. The commander and crew of
the I’m Alone, isolated and guarded like
dangerous felons a couple of weeks ago,
have been unconditionally released; there
will be a heavy indemnity to be paid to the
maltreated men, as well as damages for
the loss of the ship; and Canada’s out-
raged dignity will also be a matter for
negotiation.
The incident may have some value if
it teaches not only the lower strata of
American officialdom, but also some voci-
ferous people in Australia, that international
rights—the rights of Italians, for example
—are dangerous things to monkey with.
O
Mr. Piddington’s Vaudeville Court.
Last week, after an A.W.U. witness before
the N. S. Wales Industrial Commission had
testified that a basic-wage worker and his
wife required a joint clothing allowance of
£59 7s. l(Bd. p.a., counsel for the Employers’
Federation intimated that he would not call
evidence in rebuttal. It is doubtful if one
domestic unit in 50 on the basic wage spends
anything like this sum; but for obvious
reasons it is difficult to get workers to come
and say so, which is probably at least one
explanation of a line of action by the
employers’ counsel which shocked the
Court.
The Bulletin does not doubt that those
who support the A.VV.U. submissions are
witnesses of truth; but it is clear that most
of them are exceptions, not to say freaks.
The road-laborers and odd-jobbers to whom
life would be a blank without silk shirts
at 375. 6d. and panama hats at 5 guineas
belong, rightly, not to witness boxes, but to
vaudeville stages. Before the clothing
inquiry was begun a worker’s wife gave evi-
dence regarding the food requirements of
herself, husband and child. Amongst the
items on her list were 211 b. of meat per
week. She mentioned that her husband ate
a pound of steak or chops every morning,
and could not work on less. A man here
and there may accomplish this feat,
“digging his grave with his teeth” in
the process. But to represent it as the
gastronomic form of normal workers is pre-
posterous.
Evidence of this kind, which is practically
all that is given before the Industrial Com-
mission, provides the chief reason why
Justice Piddington’s Court is regarded far
and wide as an expensive joke.
4
Sausage-Machine News.
One of the ideas that came from the annual
Country Press conference at Canberra is
the running by the association of a country-
news service to metropolitan dailies. Two
sections will be hit thereby; the poor coun-
try reporter who, by his metropolitan cor-
respondence, puts a bit of extra butter on
the bread for which he often works 80
hours a week, and 'the general public.
None but a professional reader of news-
papers knows how strait-jacketed is the
alleged news that comes to Australia from
overseas. Only the merest skimming reaches
this country, and a lot of it is tinted to suit
the papers distributing it. We are thus
in the same position as U.S.A. and other
places which hear only of Australian
droughts, strikes and razor-slashings.
With its own interior news sieved and
skimmed in the same way, Australia will
become more than ever pap-fed. There
is now a little competition between country
correspondents whose pay depends on the
quantity and zip of the news they furnish;
they do roughly sub-edit it from the stand-
point of local values, and they do rush it
in hot upon its happening. But when all
news has to be sent to a Country Press
Association clearing-house, it is liable to be
days old before the public gets it—and in
general days-old news is anathema to big
dailies. That means that half the time the
cities will get no country news not of the
sorrow, sin and sandflies order. It will be
rough on metropolitan readers who want to
know something of their country.


25,000 MILES
AND NO CARBON
\
A team of six British motor cyclists recently completed an endurance test on a 350 c.c. Dunelt motor
cycle, at Monthlery track, Paris. A distance of 25,000 miles was covered in 554 hours. During the
test the engine was not decarbonised once —a forceful demonstration of the unique anti-carbon
properties of SHELL Motor Oil and Spirit which were used throughout this gruelling test.
è
MOTOR OIL
AND SPIRIT
5772
POLITICAL
POINTS
Johnny Mullan is Ministerial head of
Queensland’s amazing Electoral Department
and member for the smallest of the Labor
pocket boroughs. Flinders. In 1926 there
were alleged to be 2741 electors in Flinders,
but only 2052 (74.56 p.c.) voted, though
JOHNNY MULLAN.
voting is compulsory and the proportion
for the State was 89.94 p.c. Now, with
Enoggera (Opposition) shoAving an enrol-
ment of 11,739 and Logan (Opp.) one of
13.583, Flinders is alleged to contain 2652
electors. Queensland is merrily incredulous.
An increase of freight rates between Aus-
tralia and the United Kingdom has become
practically certain, and it is difficult to see
why this bright young nation should Avorry.
The rise, which is expected to be 7 per cent.,
is on goods coming here, not on our own
produce leaving here. If less comes here
as a result less money Avill go out in pay-
ment, and the man who objects to that is
hard to please.
For the eight months to the end of Feb-
ruary Australia did better commercially
than it does sometimes. If the situation
holds out to the end of June the year s
exports will exceed imports by nearly
£2,400,000, and it will only be necessary to
borroAv another £34,000.0U0 or so abroad
with which to pay interest, sinking fund,
etc. Provided the money is forthcoming, the
Federal ship will have dodged the reef once
more. But as there must be an end of
dodging some day, it is highly advisable to
keep the craft further off the shore, instead
of getting closer most of the time.
Walter Leitch, who goes to Victoria's
London office, will be more of a general agent
than Agent-General. It is the first time that
an ex-Minister or ex-member of Parliament
has not been appointed; Verdon, Murray
Smith. Berrv, Gillies,. Taverner, Mcßride,
McWhae and Fairbairn were all Parliamen-
tarians. The pay is to be £1750 a year and
exes.—the same as Fairbairn drew.
Ex-Premier Lee will have most of the
administrative respon-
sibility for Avresting
order from the chaos
caused by the Tas-
manian floods. The
greater part of the
damage Avas done in
fields of energy under
hi s control —h e i s
Minister of Lands and
Works, to which the
Hydro-electricity De-
partment is added.
Th e Commonwealth
Government, whi c h
has so much money to
burn on royal com-
missions whose reports
are never read, has
given the stricken
State £5OOO. More
than twice as much
has been raised in
Melbourne by private
subscription. Even
the desperately hard-
up S. Aus. Govern-
ment has come to light
Walter Lee.
with a vote which is larger in proportion.
A stern protest has been made by cer-
tain timber-union officials against Judge
Lukin’s statement that masses of the papers
used in the strike ballot bore so many signs
of being pawed, mauled and passed from
hand to hand that the big pro-strike majority
can’t be taken seriously. They regard the
aspersion with rage and scorn. Still union-
ists were ordered to bring their voting papers
to headquarters, mark them under official
supervision, and expect consequences if they
didn’t mark as directed. Then there was a
procession in Sydney, and a burning of ballot-
papers and combustion of the Judge’s effigy,
and a street riot for supper, and court pro-
ceedings for breakfast next day. But officials
may not regard these trifles as interference.
Events in what Sydney’s Labor Daily
refers to diurnally as a “war,” a “fight” and
a “battle” —meaning the timber-workers’
strike —have been moving on military lines.
Scout patrols track workers to their homes,
and shock troops of bashers conveyed in
motor-cars later waylay these men and kick
their heads in. A motor-cycle division has
been added to the forces, its duties being to
follow loads of timber from Sydney yards,
discover the building job for which the tim-
ber was intended and get the toilers on the
building called out. Every detail of this
organisation is illegal and fraught with pos-
sibilities of violence, but it is carried out as
openly as a review of citizen soldiery. The
only police intervention to date of any sig-
nificance has been the provision of a large
force of constabulary to keep back the crowd
while the strikers burnt their ballot-papers
and the effigy of a Judge.
It is by no means certain that anything
will be done in the near future to provide
new saleyards for Melbourne, much as it
needs them. By a bare majority the City
Council decided for the South Kensington
site —in other words, to shift the saleyards
half a mile or so from Newmarket at a cost
of £700,000, apart from half a million or
thereabouts required for railway alterations.
The Town-planning Commission is going
bald-headed for the Derrimut site. This,
critics say, will cost five millions, including
new abattoirs, a noxious-trades layout, water
supply and railway connections. But what’s
five millions?
The British I.L.P. Conference decided to
oppose war-credits. The move Avas strictly
logical, the I.L.P. being theoretically paci-
fists. But no Parliamentary party which is com-
mitted to anything resembling real pacifism
has the slightest hope of winning an elec-
tion in the U.K. The spectacle was there-
fore offered of Shinwell, of the Marine Work-
ers’ Union, objecting heatedly to the confer-
ence’s policy, and Maxton, the chairman,
exhibiting a painful lack of enthusiasm for
it. Both gentlemen are accustomed to charm
crowds by demanding the impossible, and
threatening the rich with horrible things
unless the impossible is performed; but they
are only charmers. As often as it comes to
a show-down they fade out.
High Commissioner Ryrie, speaking at a
dinner in London, announced that
Australia’s national income and sources of revenue
are much more than sufficient to pay for her govern-
ment and provide for repayment of public debts.
He added that he hoped this glowing re-
mark would put an end to “carping criti-
cism.” If Ryrie, Bruce and all the similar
prophets mean that “the national income and
sources of revenue,” as they are managed
now and as they, exist now, are amply suf-
ficient for the purposes mentioned, then they
must have meant that the Commonwealth
had no need to add £37,842,947 to its foreign
liabilities in 1927-28, but did it for some
insane purpose of amusement.
Material for a bright little disturbance
was provided when the A.L.P. Conference
which recently performed in Sydney resolved
that Labor members should pay a percent-
age of their Parliamentary wages to the
party’s “fighting fund.” The amount de-
manded to begin with is only £4 7s. 6d. per
annum for each N.S.W. State legislator, but
if the principle is once admitted strike levies
and other imposts may follow. One recent
strike levy was 12£ per cent, on wages, and
that opens up a large vista of extortion. On
the other hand, refusal to pay is likely to
mean no more party nominations, and that
is also some vista. Report has it that
N.S.W. members have refused to pay, and
also that some, after refusing, have been pay-
ing with a minimum of fuss and publicity;
but report, after all, is only the noise made
when a tyre blows out.
The Bruce-Page Ministry made a silly
mess of its dealings with coal-baron Brown.
There was no urgent reason to prosecute
him for perpetrating a lockout merely because
his mines ceased work, after giving full
legal notice, when the offers of the owners
and the State and Federal Ministries to help
in a reduction of price were rejected. In
fact, few people really thought there was
any case against Brown till the prosecution
started, and no one was sure of it till the
prosecution was dropped with a clumsy thud.
Then there arose a chorus that Bruce was
interfering with the course of justice to save
a pal. Even Maxwell, one of the Yic.
Nationalist M’s.H.R., pitched into the Min-
istry. Still, the incident has put another nail
in the coffin of the useless and dangerous
Federal arbitration system ; so good will come
of a piece of folly.
The French Chamber of Deputies has voted
by 331 to 238 to l-e-admit religious orders
banished nearly a quarter of a century ago.
The logical French have discovered that anti-
clericalism, like anti-nationalism, is not
practical politics. At the general election
last May the only out-and-out anti-God can-
didates were the Communists under Cachin.
They held 27 seats (won when the issue
was Poincare’s occupation of the Ruhr), and
they lost 13 of them. One of the truisms of
statecraft is that in a nation’s time of stress
its only reliable defenders, taken in the mass,
are the simple folk who believe in such old-
fashioned things as national honor and reli-
gion and home life.
W. J. George, member for Murray-Welling-
ton, Was away ill when the redistribution-of-
seats measure had its
close shave in the
W e s t ra li a n Leg.
Assembly, and his
political career is
closing. Seventy-six
in January, he is the
oldest man in the
House, and has beeu
there longer than any-
one else except
“Mulga” Taylor. And
he arrived in 1894,
seven years before
“Mulga,” but resigned
in 1902 to become
Commissioner of Rail-
ways for six stormy
years—he was quick-
tempered and stub-
born, and the news-
papers gave him no
peace—after which he
soon found his way
back. George was
Minister of Works for
W. J. George.
nearly eight years
under Wilson, Lefroy, Colebatch and Mit-
chell. and was never beaten for Murray-
Wellington. though Kingsley Fairbr.dge,
Rhodes Scholar, founder of the farm school
that bears his name and author of a charm-
ing autobiography, nearly unseated him once.
One group of beneficiaiues under Vic.’s
State Employees’ Superannuation Act con-
sists of a railwayman’s widow of 34 and nine
kiddies, the eldest about 12. She draws £1
a week for herself and ss. for each child. Three
pounds five shillings a week is not much for the
sustenance of such a family, but it is a lot
better than a charity dole, and in course of
time some of the children should be able to
help—the £l3 a year does not cease until a
child is 16. The superannuation system is
contributory, and the fund has more than a
million invested, though the legislation was
not passed until 1925.
It was an unfortunate day for Joseph
Carruthers, ex-Premier of N. S. Wales, when
General
Richardson.
he butted in with his
un neighborly attacks
on Maoriland’s admin-
istration of the man-
date over/ Western
Samoa. His most
fo-olish proceeding
came to light only re-
cently—he asserted in
a letter to a friend,
who published it, that
the unrest among the
Samoans dated from
the outbreak of influ-
enza in 3919, when
General Richardson,
as Administrator, re-
laxed the quarantine
regulations in favor oi
n Government steamer
with ’flu patients on
board. At that time
Richardson hadn’t re-
turned from France.
Ca r r utlic r s was
apprised of this fact
by letter —he could
have easily ascertained
it for himself in the
first place—and he
was given an opportunity of withdrawing
and apologising. He withdrew and apolo-
gised. It is just as well for the ill-informed
old gentleman that the much-badgered
Richardson is not vindictive.
Members of the Sydney Water and Sewerage
Board have asked the Justice Department to
excuse them from attendance on juries. They
will probably succeed; organised bodies that
are suspected of having a majority of edu-
cated and intelligent citizens on their
strength always do. No barristers, solicitors,
doctors, dentists, clerics, schoolmasters, bank
managers or other possessors of highly-
trained intelligences are required to do jury
service in N. S. Wales, and the list of
exemptions is always being extended. On the
other hand, the muddled failures of the com-
munity who can least afford to leave their
wilting little businesses, and are most easily
humbugged by counsel who are “good with
juries,” get called up repeatedly.
Lloyd George, bidding vigorously, like his
fellow-countryman Hughes, for a new lease
of power, has declared that “the expenditure
of large sums on armaments in peace time
is a swindle.” It certainly costs money to
build armaments in peace time, but if the
unprovoked aggression happens on July 2->
and the actual fighting begins on July 28
there is a poor chance to build them at any
other time. Five days isn’t long enough to
organise an army and navy.
One thing the Celestial Nationalists at
Nanking are up against is lack of railway
communication. Dictator Chiang recently
crushed a revolt at Ilankow, 600 miles up
the Yangtse, because the river was available
for the transportation of troops. But there
are parts of the sprawling Republic to which
it would take months to send an army—
Szechuan, for instance, with a population
said to exceed 70 millions; in these region-;
independent generals breed like rabbits. In
Manchu days a British syndicate ofEered to
cover China with a network of iron roads,
but the time was considered not yet ripe,
wherefore the dynasty lost the number of its
mess. It was actually on British-built rail-
ways that the present crowd rode to what
success they have gained.
The N. S. Wales Laborites and National-
ists have held their party conferences, and
between the policies to which they gave their
sanction there is not a penn’orth of differ-
ence. Both crowds stand for pre-selection,
the mainstay of crooks and crawlers; for
utterly reckless borrowing ; for wicked over-
taxation of incomes, which threatens th<-
existence of the middle-class; for a muddled
revival of the British poor-law system dis-
guised as child endowment; for a “child-
endowment” tax which exempts rich bar-
risters and bookmakers and “Good Ole
Piddo” (he gets £3500 p.a.) and takes £2
in the £lOO of wages from struggling manu-
facturers; and for a regulation of industry
so excessive that an employer spends a third
of hi 3 time filling in forms, arguing with
Government inspectors, walking delegates
and tax-gatherers, defending arbitration
cases, and trying to satisfy basic-wage pun-
dits’ thirst for information as to how many
bathing-gowns a working-man’s wife needs
in a twelvemonth, and how many calories
there should be in little Willy’s breakfast
porridge. In their hearts the Nationalists
don’t believe in this ruinous programme, but
they are afraid to drop it lest they lose 1 votes.
They call their concern the Great National
party. It is really the Small Cocktail party.
PRE-ELECTION PLEDGES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Thousands of meetings are being held nightly in
Britain in preparation for next month’s general
elections; wireless, moving pictures and talkies are
all being utilised by the three parties. It is under-
stood that Mr. Baldwin will make no attempt to
outbid tlie other leaders in his programme.”
Around the land they tear in quest of votes;
From throbbing street to lonely countryside
In rumbling, roaring vans each party totes
The last designs of science, all applied
To advertise its nostrums far and wide,
To shrill a slogan or to bang a drum.
Yet by no pledge will Stanley B. be tied
To hand his country the Millennium.
Lloyd George’s voice rings out its clarion
notes
Forecasting, with his hand once more to
guide,
Congenial toil for all who’ll doff their coats,
Aye, and remunerative pay beside.
Dour Ramsay Mac. and wilder men from
Clyde
Predict, should Labor score, how things will
hum.
Baldwin, for all that some may chafe and
chide,
Declines to dangle the Millennium.
From Lynn to Milford, Ryde to John o’
Groats,
They plead, cajole, commend, condemn,
deride;
Each fervent tongue sets loose a thousand
throats
In lusty cheers, nor any can decide
For sure how sits the wind or flows the
tide,
Or lioav will flappers vote that erst were
dumb.
Withal one chief has precedent defied:
He hasn’t promised the Millennium.
’Tis hard to separate the sheep from goats,
Say which will Ins and which will Outs
become.
Still, one. distinction about Baldwin floats:
He scorns to bribe Avith the Millennium.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Tristram R.”: In 1921 we went, ashore
from the Geranium at the Drysdale mission
station, so often mentioned during the search
for Kingsford Smith, in order to place a cross
over the remains of one of the ship’s company.
I was in charge of the party and found the
natives eager to help. Their obvious delight
at the arrival of strangers was ,in direct
contrast to the attitude of the priests, who
showed no excitement and hardly paused in
their work unless addressed directly. The
reception they gave us, though not hostile,
was certainly the reverse of enthusiastic.
Their station is absolutely self-contained;
they make their own flour and sugar, using
a donkey for power, and wrest their entire
living from the soil. The actual dwelling
is built on high piles so arranged that the
ladders may be raised at a moment’s notice;
it was evidently constructed with an eye on
the possibilities of a native attack. We
brought the isolated community its first news
that the war was over. My offer to post any
mail was refused. The monks had left
Spain 17 years before and had voluntarily
severed themselves from the world.
* sjc * *
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : The Prince of Wales
is as full of vagaries as a spoiled prima
donna. His rather petulant breaking-up of
his hunting stable was apparently done on
the impulse of the moment. Then just as it
was suggested that he ought to move to
Marlborough House, the recognised residence
of the heir to the throne, he had his old
HE KNEW WHAT MUMMY USED THEM FOR.
GRANDPA ( giving the kid a little talk about religion and brotherly love): “And now
tell me, Phil, what is it that binds us together and makes us better than we
are by nature?”
PHIL: “Corsets, Grandpa.”
quarters at York House renovated to suit
liis personal taste and announced that he
meant to stay there. On top of that came
the incident of the levee. It was announced
that H.R.H. would drive in state from
Buckingham Palace to St. James’s, and a
good many people assembled to see the
show. But at the appointed hour the way-
ward David just walked from his home to
St. James’s, and the dailies were left with
no better excuse for the abandonment of the
usual procession than that there was snow
on the ground. Again, yesterday (6/3/’29t
it was announced that at the approaching
Courts to be held during the King’s illness
the Prince would be the chief figure and that
the Queen, though present, would take a
secondary place. To-day it is stated officially
that the Queen will hold the Courts. All
those presented are to curtsey to her Majesty
and to no one else. It is also men-
tioned, with an appearance of casualness,
that “there is no constitutional reason to
prevent any of the princes from taking the
place of the Prince of Wales and accom-
panying their mother should the Prince be
unable to fulfil the duty.” This is taken to
mean that the Prince will not attend the
Courts unless great pressure is brought to
bear on him.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: A mysterious incident in the
search for the Southern Cross was the recep-
tion by Vernon George, an amateur of
Heidelberg, about eight miles from Mel-
bourne, of a message which may or may not
have come from the aeroplane after she
reached terra firma. The message read,
“Smith... .peller turn....men are eating
wild fowl.. . .will try again in the morning.”
George, who is an cx-telegraphist with an
expert ear for Morse, was listening on the
Southern Cross’s wave-length. It is true
that there were probably dozens of others
doing the same, but that does not altogether
discount the evidence. The ether plays queer
tricks sometimes, and George’s set is of
unorthodox design—a two-valve arrange-
ment of his own which has put him in
touch with Europe and America.
* * * *
“Card": The young botanist had tnken a
long cross-country walk and stopped at a
lonely dwelling to ask for a drink of water.
A dishevelled and nonc-too-clean female
responded to his knock and affably brought
out a cracked cup. “It’s the best I have,”
she explained ; “it’s the one I keep for me
own use.” Moved by some impulse that lie
would hardly have liked to explain, the
young man turned the cup and drank above
the handle. “Well, now, ain’t that funny!”
ejaculated the old dame. “You’re the only
other person I’ve ever seen drink like that.
I always do it mcself.”
# * * *
“Listeninsect”: Wireless amateurs in the
Speck returned good for evil when the Tas-
manian floods completely disorganised de-
partmental telegraphs. They rallied to the
call, and for some days the only communi-
cation between north and south was via
private sets in quiet suburban streets in
Launceston and Hobart. In fact, Trevor
Watkins’s home in Hobart became ipso facto
the city’s telegraph station, and was operated
continuously by the P.M.G.’s department
until the land-lines were restored. In addi-
tion, Watkins, who is regarded as the Speck’s
most advanced experimenter, kept .in touch
with Melbourne, a Victorian amateur pro-
viding the local terminal. As the P.M.G.
spends most of his leisure time thinking out
ways of putting fresh fetters on the activi-
ties of amateurs, it was a case of the biter
bit.
>!«**>*
“Oxmead”: The contemplation of the
erudite Piddington, of the N.S.W. Industrial
Commission, and two other Judges listening
solemnly to the evidence of voluble house-
wives on how much sugar a worker’s house-
hold consumes in a week and what amount
of steak is required for a sturdy toiler’s
breakfast reminds me of a step taken by
Burnside, the W.A. Judge, when he was
president of the Arbitration Court. Burn-
side was occupied in fixing a wages award
for some calling or ether, and after taking
down reams of this sort of testimony he
suddenly staggered both sides_ by arriving
one morning with a dossier of his own house-
hold expenses for two months, the quantity
and cost of the food required for himself,
his wife and his wife’s sister being set down
to the minutest detail. The dailies published
the document in full, thereby giving the
public a chance of contrasting its own daily
commissariat with that of a Supreme Court
Judge. Burnside’s cuisine was generally held
to be on the frugal side, and there were
some scoffs from the workers’, representa-
tives because the Judge’s favorite vegetable
appeared to be haricot beans—which were
derided as an inadequate prop for manual
work—but at least he was doing something
to gain a knowledge essential to his job
and one which can’t be acquired from law-
books. The precedent is hereby commended
to “Good ole Piddo,” who remarked artlessly
in court the other day that a leading Aus-
tralian butcher had told him fillet steak was
really the cheapest of all meat for the house-
wife, because not a bit need be wasted. If
the learned Judge had ever bought fillet—
or what is weighed out as such in butchers’
shops—or cooked it himself, he might have
doubted the proposition.
FASHIONS IN HIS FAVOR.
COUSIN SOPIIY: “Marriage is a lottery!”
COUSIN REGGY : “Oh, I don’t know. A man ought to have a fair idea what he’s getting
these days.”
“Leatherneck” : The British Navy is being
shaken to its socks bv a rumor that, on the
suggestion of the Prince of Wales, the
Admiralty is about to order that the Royal
toast should be drunk standing in officers’
messes, instead of sitting. Apart from the
fact that it is not easy to stand up in
a seaway after a good wardroom dinner’,
there is a tradition threatened. The Duke
of Clarence, who later became William IV.,
once nearly fractured his skull against an
overhead beam while rising to drain a
bumper to his brother’s health, on one of
the old wooden vessels of 100 years ago.
When he recovered his Royal wits he
gave emphatic orders that in future the
toast should be honored from a sedentary
position.
1 * * * *
“TJramao” : The motor bug lias effectually
bitten the Maoris, and alongside the whares
in many settlements are quaintly-designed
garages to house the astlimatical flivvers to
which Hori is addicted.
One family in the Bay of
Plenty recently became
possessed of a queer box
of tricks. It was com-
paratively easy to start
the car, but bow to stop
it was quite another ques-
tion. Various improvisa-
tions, such as old boots
rigged up to press on all
four tyres, were tried
without success. But the
Maori is nothing if not
original, so the heavy-
weight member of the
family was told off to
occupy the back seat,
along with an old anchor
and a length of rope
attached thereto. At the
signal to stop the big
Maori endeavors to lasso
something substantial —a
telegraph-pole, a gate-
post or a tree-trunk.
Sometimes the anchor
man is almost yanked out
of his seat, occasionally
his judgment is at fault
and he misses, or else he
catches a tree of insuffi-
cient girth, which comes
out by the roots and
trails along in the wake of the car. But
on the whole the method seems to operate
to the satisfaction of the car-owners.
* * * *
“Kewpie”: Westmere is only five*
miles from Wanganui by rail, but a letter
that arrived there the other day had taken
17 years to cover the distance. It had been
posted in the mailbox of a railway van and
slipped into a crack, where it lay for half
the lifetime of a generation before it was
noticed. The firm of solicitors to which it
was addressed had changed its name twice
while the missive was cn route.
* * * *
“Shep”: In the mixup around Hazebrouk,
after the civilian retreat, we salvaged from
ruined homes three pianos—they made things
lively on pay-nights in the barn that served
us for a home—and some excellent sewing-
machines. Finally somebody towed home
after dark a touring-car, presumably left
behind in Borre by one of the village’s
upper crusters. It was badly out of order,
but mechanics put in their spare time on it
for a fortnight, with a joy-ride to Paris
as the objective as soon as the thing should
mote properly. A dailv visitor to the repair-
shed was an elderly Belgian, to whom the
inside of an engine seemed a novelty. Every
part of the outfit was explained to him on
his visits, and he seemed keenly interested.
Just as final preparations were being made,
the affable Belgian arrived on the scene
with the village gendarme, the A.P.M. and
enough napers in his hand to prove he was
the legal owner of the car. He didn’t even
shout the toilers a drink for the hard graft
they’d put in, and as he insisted on driving
the A.PAI. back home himself, they couldn’t
put in tho nips for the tank full of benzine,
the result of a raid on a Tommy dump.
* a * *
“Bemon”: It was at the Easter Monday
sports in our township. A young blood from
the Condamine had brought three horses
and entered them for every possible event,
but they proved to be not the stuff that
winners are made of. However, their owner
had still a card in his sleeve. He button-
holed the judge and members of the commit-
tee, setting forth that he had brought three
horses a long way, and had paid over a
pound in entry fees. Surely he deserved a
ribbon of some kind (here one discovers a
sweetheart in the background). The judge
and committee were only human. They gave
him the length of red ribbon that had been
left over, and the young man from the Gonda-
mine proudly tied it round the neck of one
of his nags and contentedly lit out for home.
*:» * * *
“Copabella”: State schools are encouraged
to cultivate as side-lines anything from
orchards to fowlyards, pine-forests to pig-
farms ; but for a quick and rich return from
a school farm-plot sugar-cane is easily first.
Woongarra school, near Bundaberg (Q.).
has such a plot, plants for which are given
by district farmers, and annual proceeds
enable the school to provide all sorts of use-
ful extras outside the departmental allocation.
A novel side-line at Palmwood school, in the
same State, is a fruit-packing class, which
enters the annual competition in fruit-pack-
ing held in connection with Brisbane Royal
Show.
* * *
“D.”: Cables which arrived about the same
time mentioned that France had had 2000
deaths from road-accidents in 1928, and Eng-
land and Wales 5489. The French are notor-
ious for fast driving, their roads are not in the
same class as Britain’s, and France has about
3,000,000 more people than England and
Wales. The discrepancy is largely explained
by the fact that 1593 of the deaths in Eng-
land and Wales were caused by motor-cycles,
which are more fatal to the old than
pneumonia and to the young than diarrhoea.
Few motor-bikes are seen in France. In
Britain, they teem, and there, as here, they
are used chiefly hy flash and irresponsible
young men. An additional tragedy from the
standpoint of victims is that the motor-bikist
is rarely insured, and practically never has
enough money to pay adequate damages.
“R. Volt”: It now appears that the dis-
aster to the Southern Cross might have been
averted had some of those concerned been
properly alive to the difference in statutory
time between Westralia and N. S. Wales.
The telegram advising Kingsford Smith of
the bad weather at Wyndham was des-
patched round about 9 a.m., Westralian
time; but by then it was after eleven in
N. S. Wales and the birds had flown. It
is remarkable how many Australians go
through life blissfully unaware of this dis-
crepancy. Bookmakers accept wagers in Perth
after the race has been run in Melbourne, and
business men in Adelaide send urgent wires
to eastern States when their correspondents
have already gone home to tea. The
queerest example I know of concerned a
Melbourne man who claimed to be able to
project his healing powers through the ether.
His patients were supposed to put them-
selves into a receptive state by retiring to
a darkened room and relaxing into a condi-
tion of self-hypnosis. As neither patients
nor “professor” were aware of the difference
in time, the “receptor” was as often as not
relaxing at the moment when the “trans-
mitter” was playing bridge.
* * * ■■
“Tee Essbie”: One evening last week at
Leichhardt (Sydney) I paused alongside
a Salv’army open-air meeting. The comrade
who w r as testifying was telling how he had
once been a champion pug of some sort in
Victoria; and he looked it. As a matter of
fact, the Army could put a pretty good team
in the field. McDevitt, who got himself into
the world’s-championship class as a sculler,
fought for many years under the “blood-and-
fire” banner as a soldier of the Congress
Hall (Sydney) Corps. Colonel Suttor, chief
sec of the Army in Eastern Australia, which
means N.S.W. and Queensland, was in his
young days a Rugby Union footballer w'ho
represented N.S.W. and Australia during two
seasons. And they are not all old crocks
either. One of the most promising of the
N.S.W. “colts” who, during the cricket sea-
son just ended, went to Victoria and Tas-
mania, is a member of the splendid Congress
Hall S.A. band.
TO APRIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The countryside has changed in one swift
day.
The winding roads, the landmarks are the
same,
But there drifts faintly in from far away
A tender radiance I cannot name.
An almost soundless rustling, soft yet deep,
Stirs the white sunlight with caresses
mild,
As though a mother kissed and kissed to sleep
A very weary, very lovely child!
As though the year of pageantry grown
tired
Had pressed hot hands against a brow of
pain,
And willed that all the yellow fields be fired
With purple flowers to clamber in the
grain !
And purple mists upon the hills, and grey,
Misting the slopes that had grown scarred
and sere!
So Summer’s scarlet pomp has died away,
And you, my cool, my happy one, arc here!
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


THE KERB PHILOSOPHER.
[For The Bulletin.]
He held a pub verandah-post, this sturdy
loiterer,
As though he thought the earth might end
if he should chance to stir.
“I dunno ’ow it is,” he said, “that people
fuss an’ fuss
W’en coves like us jist stand an’ wait for
wot may come to us.
“A pipe, a bed, a meal or two, your fre-
quent fill o’ beer —
Wot more could anybody ask, wot more be
wanted ’ere?
The world goes tumblin’ round an’ round an’
turnin’ inside out
To try to find wot I ’ave found while
moochin round about.
“Just like a flamin’ lot of ants, without them
inseeks’ brains,
The crowd goes runnin’ on an’ on in ’igh-
ways, streets an’ lanes.
An’ most o’ them, for all their rush, are
w v ere they were before,
Kicked, tired, down an’ nearly done, an’
feelin’ mighty sore.”
He hiccoughed solemnly and drained a
bottle to the dregs,
And tacked towards the open bar distrustful
of his legs.
“This flamin’ world goes round an’ round—
I sit beside the track,
An’ if I miss it goin’ out I catch it cornin’
back.”
N.S.W. P. T. F.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: One of the strangest cases of
death in the wire occurred recently in a
Melbourne suburb. A boy was climbing over
a house-roof by means of a waterspout,
when a section of the spout came away in
his hand. ITe fell, dragging the thing with
him between the two electric-light wires.
It caught in one of the wires, and he hung
suspended 'while the current went through
him. If the piping had fallen across both
wires it would have blown the nearest fuse,
the power would have been automatically
cut off and he might have suffered from
nothing but a tumble.
:!■• * * #
“S. Trita”: Not all teachers play up to
the fads of school inspectors. I am not
saying that I didn’t —in my teaching
days I used all the cheap window-dressing
devices I knew of —but I had a friend
who preferred to rely for promotion on her
undoubted teaching ability and its results.
One dyspeptic officer sent his sharp eyes on
a critical tour of her room and remarked,
“A spider-web up there, Miss .” “Yes,”
snapped the lady, “and I have no doubt if
you were to climb up you’d find some
spiders.” The d.i. accepted the rebuff like
the good sport he was.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Until a few years ago
Lome, one of the most beautiful of Victoria’s
seaside resorts, had no connection along
the coast, though there was a poor road
linking up with the Prince’s Highway. The
Government refused to make a road along
the lovely but precipitous cliffs which lie
between Lome and Anglesea, about 20 miles
away, so local residents and interested
parties in Geelong and Melbourne decided to
make one for themselves. They raised
debentures, called the enterprise a sailors’
and soldiers’ memorial and put Diggers to
work on it. Further to raise the wind they
announced that anyone donating £5O would
have a pass called after him. The number
PROOF OF IT.
MAY : “Were the girls on your side during the row with the managers”
FAY: “I don’t know—but they all offered to take my part.”
of real passes available was limited and
there were numerous applicants; so in
places name boards occur at 20ft. intervals,
which is gratifying to the road trust, if
bewildering to drivers. However, the track
was completed and two toll-gates erected on
it to help pay off the debenture-holders. It
is a narrow road, and in many places two
cars cannot pass each other, unless one
climbs up the cliff-face, yet last year the
two gates collected £l4OO.
„„ *.„ . * ~ *, . * ,
Vulagi : A cargo of bricks is one of the
most dangerous a ship can carry owing to
its capacity to absorb wet and heavy ocean
before the usual evidence of a leak is mani-
fest. The swelling power of bulk grain if
water gets at it is also perilous. I once saw
an ice-covered ship make port with maize
bulging through a split in the deck, a blob
of yellow in a dead-white setting that looked
extraordinarily like a huge fried egg with
a broken yolk. But the queerest thing of the
sort in my experience arose from a tanker
filling up with cocoanut oil and blissfully set-
tang out for Liverpool. She arrived in
December with the oil congealed into a solid
block, and it took a mixture of steam pipes,
blubber spades and profanity a long time to
discharge her.
* * * *
“Keg”: From off the footboard I showed
an old, retired doctor, who is a frequent
passenger of mine, two recent paragraphs in
The Bulletin about seats in Sydney trams.
He differed from them. The best seat in a
tramcar, he pronounced, is the one in the
nrst compartment, far side from conductor,
with the back to driver. The sitter is safe
from wind and rain, whichever way they
beat. As this is the side least used, there is
little risk of anyone treading on your toes or
flopping into your lap, and there is always
the chance of the conductor missing the fare,
particularly If the compartment is crowded.
* * * *
“P.X.”: We were talking in the Adelaide-
Broken Hill express as it passed through
the semi-desert near Mannahill. and one of
us wondered how an English visitor who saw
it for the first time would describe it. “Oh,
I can tell you that,” said the conductor —
not the one who became President of the
Senate; the other one. “This gentleman had
just come off an English steamer. He woke
up before we reached the border and looked
out. After about three minutes he put the
whole volume he might have written into one
word : ‘Hell!’ ” Yet neither that nor the
“dead forest” in South Gippsland nor
Queensland’s priekly-pcar country is the
most pathetic bit of landscape in Australia.
I found that in the Adelaide Hills after bush-
fires hnd swept them at the end of this long,
dry summer. As a rule the fires had been
beaten back from habitation and gardens;
but here in an elbow of a valley was a frizzled
orchard over which the flames had swept.
The sight of a blackened orchard from which
the burned leaves had fallen, with thousands
of half-cooked apples still on their stalks,
was unique.
* * * *
“Mulyan”: I met Dad mooching rather
disconsolately round the fringe of the Sydney
Show crowds. “There’s too much of a mob
in this place,” he said. “When we have a
show at Bungabinjic you can see it, every
danged bit of it. But where there’s anything
worth seein’ here, there’s so many packed
around it you can’t see anything. I squeezed
in yesterday to get a look at the punkins,
an’ when I come out I hadn’t a feather to
fly with. Some cow had pinched me purse.
That never happens at our show, I’ll say
that for Bungabinjic.”
* * * *
“Morita”: Ports on the way to the war
could tell tales of varied schemes to break
leave by the A.I.F. going overseas. Coal-
hulks were a favorite means of transit, and
even the craft of shore officials calling to
make their inspections were collared now
and then. At Colombo we got hold of a
ship’s tender which the health officer came
on board in, and steered it, densly packed
with troops, to the nearest wharf, where it
was tied up awaiting its owners. At Suez
we found it easy to get ashore, but hard to
get on board again. The boat was along-
side the wharf when we started for. town,
but well out in the stream when we decided
to return. Gyppos weren’t allowed out in
the bay after sunset, so their boats were
requisitioned for the trip, and left tied end
to end to the ship’s rudder, where th« owners
picked them up after daylight. At Port Said
practically the whole or the troops on b.,ard
went ashore, clad in dungarees, down ropes
over the stern into native craft beneath,
whilst unsuspecting officers were at mess,
The citizens were dumbfounded at the
hundreds of troops in dishevelled dungarees
invading their promenades and leading
pubs. Gibraltar was our Waterloo. The
Spanish town just outside the walls looked
inviting, and when we pulled alongrid ■ for
stores the usual trek started over the side,
Like magic a cordon of marines with fmd
bayonets hemmed us in on the wharf whilst
their officer gave us a few minutes to g«'t
back up the gangway before the Navy took
over disciplinary measures from the ship’s
police.
* * * *
“Murkah” : The fortune-teller’s account
with society isn’t all on the debit side. I know
a case in which a young married woman was
becoming over-fond of a former admirer,
Another woman tried to convince her of her
foolishness, but without result. She then
“oiled” a fortune-teller as to the facts, and
had no trouble in getting the erring lady along
to peer behind the veih The oracle gave the
interloper a character that would have hanged
a saint. Also, she impressed it on her client
that she had a “loving, hardworking husband
who adored her.” A day or two later the
tertium quid received the shock of his life;
and a slightly mystified husband decided
that married life wasn’t so bad after all.
* * * *=
“Murkah” : All that can be said in defence
or extenuation of the Kellys (B. 3/4/’29)
isn’t much, but you may still hear it in the
so-called “Kelly country” whenever the topic
AT THE CHINESE RESTAURANT.
MRS. NEWRICH (who has heard ’em all say how jascinating it is): “Two bowls of mah
jongg, waiter, to start with.”
is started, I had it pumped into me in
Glenrowan not long ago when I was having
my hair cut, and it boiled down to this.
Stock-stealing was general. The whole dis-
trict couldn’t be arrested, but someone had
to be. Thenceforth, though the Kellys cer-
tainly didn’t steal the stock, they collected
all the blame and were forced thereby into
further evil courses. Anyway, put this to
the' credit of what is left of the family:
every eligible joined up in war-time. They
didn’t all return, either.
* * * *
“Huffin Guffin” : Sympathy for the Kelly
gang wasn’t confined to the “Kelly country.
In June, 1880, I was working on a farm at
the other end of Victoria, when the lady of
the house returned from her Sunday visit to
the nearest village. As soon as the horses
stopped, and before she got down, she wrung
her hands and asked pitifully, “D’ye know
the news?” We conjectured all kinds of
family tragedies for fully five minutes before
she enlightened us. Then it came in five
words: “The poor Kellys are caught!” It
was a doleful Sunday afternoon.
* * * *
“Memo”: Beyond doubt there are lin-
guistic throwbacks (B. 27/3/’29). In my
bush academy, back of Gilgandra (N.S.W.),
I have a genuine product of Tipperary.
He might be an importation of yesterday.
Yet his parents, like Steele Rudd’s Joe,
speak “pure unadulterated Australian,” his
grandparents on both sides are Australian-
born, and the lad during his ■ seven years
of existence has never come in contact witn
anyone hailing from the land of his fore-
fathers.
* * * *
“A.A.G.”: From time to time I read para-
graphs about the small boy’s pluck and
endurance. Here is something that happened
the other day in Maoriland. A nine-year-
old was riding his bike along a country road,
as he had done daily for over a year, when
a motor-truck, coming out of a lane with a
ton of apples on board struck him.
The front wheel pushed him over, and,
as he fell, passed over his stomach,
just missing his ribs. One of the men
on the truck pulled him nut and asked
if he was hurt. He said “No, only
winded.” He was carried home, and
on the way said, “I didn’t do it. Dad.
The lorry ran over me.” He was abl
to explain to the five doctors what had
happened to him, which made their
task easier,, so one of them told me. His
spleen was crushed, and he died next day.
I was the Coroner.
* * * *
“Hayband”: Being in gaol doesn’t always
prevent a voter from having a voice in the
selection of a Parliamentary member. I
know a case where a Via policeman
(an ardent politician) allowed two of
his casual boarders a few minutes’ liberty
to record their votes. No one knew whence
they came or whither they returned; it
was sufficient that their names were on the
roll.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: As I passed down
the street somebody who looked like a hus-
band was kicking viciously at a door, while
a woman from an upper -window stigmatised
him as a loafer whom she was “done with.’”
“What about the money I gave you this
mornin’? If you’re shuttin’ the door on
me, gimme hack me money,” came from the
pavement. The only response was something
that splashed about his shoulders. The dis-
turber of the peace shook himself like a
dog. “I don’t want ter _ stay; gimme
what’s mine an’ I'll go.” He continued to
kick the door. Some old clothes descended
on him, and he picked them up bit by bit,
till they made quite a pile in his arms; t
he resumed his kicking and his demands io
his money. Of course, a crowd had gathere
and it struck me that public sympathy
beginning to turn in the outcast s tax or.
“If his wife did turn him out.’ somebo
muttered, “she had no right to keep a
his caslf.” Possibly the garrison sensed tms.
or she may have merely become tired ot tn_
yelling and the assault on the door.
“Orright!” she said, “I’ll give you your
money!” There was a clink on the pave-
ment ; then the man’s reedy voice was lifted
again in bitter remonstrance. “You thieving
cow! This is only two bob. It was ’arf a
crown I gave you” !
* * * *
“Stylites”: Some remarkable revelations
about godly Adelaide were made at a recent
meeting of Sydney’s Council of Social and
Moral Reform. In the southern city, it was
solemnly averred, it is a criminal offence
for a man to sit within three feet of a
woman on a beach or take a bottle of beer
into a park, and the abominably immoral
habit of pillion-riding on motor-cycles is
banned. Everyone was agreed that these
were wise and salutary dispensations, but
when it came to doing something about Mag-
dalen the meeting started running round in
circles. One reformer said immorality had
vastly increased in Melbourne since the High
Court decided that solicitation was not an
offence; another remarked that the most im-
moral city in Australia was Brisbane, where
there was no solicitation, the brothels being
licensed ; a third declared it did not do any
good to drive vice off the streets; and a
fourth described the mental agonies of an
elderly churchwarden who waited outside
Sydney G.P.O. one evening and was accosted
three times in five minutes. Almost every
delegate had terrible stories to tell about the
awful depravity she had witnessed. I went
away wondering how it is that I miss these
things.
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: Jacob Dumcker, the mate
of the windjammer, pointed to the boys and
girls swimming around the shore end of the
jetty. “Never see dot vhere I comes from,”
he remarked. “Don’t you go in for mixed
bathing?” I asked. “Yes,” replied the Finn;
“I means dot dey don’t vear dose Yersey
t’ings. Dey goes in mit not’ings on. Der
girls goes into der bushes in vun place, der
boys at onoder, dey undresses und runs
down and yoomps in. Den dey meets und
schvims about. Der girls alvays squeals
vhen dey runs down to der vater.” I asked
why, and Jacob grinned like a shark. “To
let der boys know dot dey mustn’t look.
Der girls in Arland undt Schveden is ver
modest.” I asked the skipper afterwards if
tne mate had put the case correctly, and,
after hearing his officer’s statements, he cor-
roborated them with “Dot iss so.”
* * * *
“Nitchevo”: This is surely about high-
water mark in motor-car stealing. A man
claiming to be a constable stopped a Mr.
Mclntosh, of Mysia, on the road from Ben-
digo to Inglewood and asked him for a lift
to Inglewood. Halts were made a couple of
times for refreshment, and when Mclntosh
arrived at Inglewood he was dopey and
dazed. Announcing that his companion was
“pretty far gone,” and that he would call
for him later, the man left Mclntosh at the
Royal Hotel and drove away in the car.
When its owner woke up the wires soon
buzzed and the car was spotted travelling
towards Ecliuca. It was recovered, but the
“constable” had faded out.
* * * *
“Imogen”: Though the word “florin”
appears on every Australian two-shilling
piece, the coin seldom gets any other title
than the rather inadequate “two-bob.” It is,
however, given a semi-social run in Queens-
land under its official name, the coin being
the accepted admission fee to most social
events, which receive as a result the general
title of “florin” afternoon-teas, evenings,
soirees, dances and the like. The florin
is as much the tea-fight coin as its
little brother the “thrum” is that of hoi/
church.


M
I *
THE C
}
H A
INI C E IT
V *\
\ \
V*
//
£
/
S 3
4
6
&
r
m
:s
A fine, fast Super-Six
Made in the same factory
as the famous Greater
Hudson, Essex the Chal-
lenger offers costly-car
motoring pleasure at
moderate price.
See this fine, fast Super-
Six at your Hudson-Essex
dealer’s. Pit it against
any car you choose. You
will agree that it leads
them all in value.
ê
ë
ESSEX PRICES AT SYDNEY.
5 Balloon Tyres Standard Equipment.
Tourer (Australian Body) . . • • • • • • • * £290
Standard Sedan (Australian Body) . . • • • • • • • • • • 363
Standard Sedan (Imported Body) . . . . • • • • • • • • 399
Coupe (Imported Body) .. •• •• •• • • •• ' " 385
Town Sedan (Imported Body, with bumper bars) . . - - - - • • 420
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
MOTORS LIMITED.,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
AUTOS LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


*
“The
Umbro”
Fur Felt
Hat.
Just the hat for (he man who lives in the
great outdoors. It’s shady and serviceable.
Has 3£in. unbound, curl brim. Crown 64in.
high, has leather plaited band.
Fawn shade, medium weight—and is
“Sovereign” quality.
Price 39/6
Send, your size or head measurement to
Rothwells Outfitting
EDWARD street o, — BRISBAME
Follow the
Chart
TEXACO keeps your engine clean.
BUY FROM THE TEXACO VISIBLE OIL
SERVER BOTTLE, AND ENSURE:
Freedom from carbon
Clean Valves and Spark Plugs
Protection against heat and wear
Economy in consumption
High compression and more
power
TEXACO
CLEAN-CLEAR-GOLDEN
MOTOR OIL
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Comrjonweahh.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel. Sydney.’*
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Walter Leitch, who has been appointed
Vic. Agent-General, is a Scot, 61 years of
age, who came to Australia 38 years ago as
representative of an engineering and mach-
11\ei'y firni; During the war he was Director
of Munitions in the Commonwealth, and
more recently was on the Tariff Board. Ills
wife (she was Dr. Bertha Main) is a daugh-
ter of a former permanent head of the Vic.
Education Department who retired in 1891
and died in 1905.
JIM THORN, the new president of the
M.L. Labor party.
, ?^;® - W - St'ts its first native-born police
chief with the appointment of W. H. Childs
Metropolitan Superintendent as acting-Com-
missioner—the full appointment will come
in March next year, when Mitchell’s long
leave expires. A Bega boy, Childs entered
the force in 1892 and was thrown imme-
diately into the rough and tumble of push
lights in the Rocks. His rise was rapid.
One of his. accomplishments was the estab-
lishment with ex-inspector Fowler and In-
spector Linegan, of the present finger-nrint
system.
It was suggested in Wcstralia that the
Babor Government might appoint J. C Will-
cock, the Minister of Railways, to the
vacant Commissionership, but E. A. Evans
has got the job He is familiar with the
duties, having discharged them when Pone
was away ill and since the Gallipoli man
retired. Westralia acquired Evans from N
8. v\ ales, where he was one of Commis-
sioner Eddy s young men.
Earnest Adelaide Anglicans are moaning
again over their Bishop Thomas, a dear old
gentleman whom nearly everybody likes
and that is about all. For years now he and
Canon Wise, the High Church specialist of
the local sheep-run, have been at loggerheads •
at least, Wise has been at loggerheads, whil ’
the Bishop has remained sound asleep.
However while he won’t try the Canon at
a Church court, he also won’t let him have
an assistant shepherd, apparently on the
ground that the Canon might corrupt the
young man; and at last the yells to the
tiishop to do something get deafening.
r^^ie N. S. Wales last week lost
very suddenly one of its brilliant young senior
men. Roy McDougal, for some years man-
ager at Brisbane, later inspector for Vic-
toria and at the time of his death engaged
in reorganising the British and Foreign busi-
ness, felt unwell one morning, and was dead
the same evening, of a clot of blood on the
brain, aged 49. A brother is a Sydney S.M.;
they were Bathurst boys.
Myra Morris is the next Australian verse-
writer to get between covers. Vidler pub-
lishes the volume in Melbourne next month.
Stephen Henry Roberts, appointed Challis
I rofessor of History at Sydney University,
is a product of ex-journalist Prof. Ernest
Scott’s history school at Melbourne Uni.
Jhe young man—he still has some of his
twenties in hand—is in Paris with his wife
at the moment. She was Thelma Asehe,
niece of Oscar, and is a Melbourne graduate
too Stephen Henry first burst into print
with his “History of Australian Land Settle-
ment. At the ’Varsity he bagged every
prize and exhibition in sight, after school-
boy exploits on the same scale at Kyneton
and wa s for a time lecturer and tutor at
Melbourne. Then he took his Pli.D in
London.
, W; \ Carr has been banqueted
by the Stock Exchange of Adelaide on com-
pleting 25 years as its presid nt. In his
younger days Carr was sporting editor of
Adelaide Register. As a sharebroker he be-
came a member and then chairman of Adel-
aide Racing Club committee, gave up the
chair to go on S.A. Jockey Club committee,
and is now president of that.
Why fellow-members of the Vic. Parlia-
ment should have selected a grandfather-
clock as a souvenir for Speacock at the State
dinner to celebrate his 4Uth political birthday
is puzzling since he is nobody’s dad or grand-
uacl. As lie has more than once explained,
lie has to be content with being father of
the Factories Act and of the Leg. Assembly,
llie company numbered 110, and included
some former members who were Cabineteers
with Alec; but lack of imagination was
shown by oflicialdom in leaving out Tom
Hunt, Jack Gardiner. Joe Ivirton, H. R
nillmms and Agar Wynne, other survivors
of the 1889-92 Parliament. Bob Best, who
was with Speacock in the first Turner Min-
istry (1894 99). was the only eighty niner
to keep his old pal company.
Sir Leslie Scott, one of Liverpool’s Con-
servative M 5.1., who has decided not to
stand at the coming election, holds the
woild s record for the highest fee ever paid
to a K.C. He asked and got £53,000 down
and a refresher of £2OO a day for tlirle
months, last year, when he went to India
to advise the princes as to their legal and
constitutional positions with regard to the
(statutory Commission. This means that in
three months he earned more than either of
his rivals, Sir John Simon and Sir Douglas
Hogg, ever made in a year. At their best
they were only £60,000 p.a. men. The
largest amount previously paid for a single
case went to Barrington Ward. K.C. who
*2* a millionaire Parsee off in Bagdad in
£lO 50o” 3 murder chai 'S e - Ward made
m r 5LF' i n S0 ?.’ president of the Melbourne
J-lades Han Council, will represent Aus-
tralian unionists at the International Labor
Conference at Geneva. A shrewd, if talka-
tive, Geordie, Gibson was one of the few
union leaders who had the courage to oppose
the idiotic affiliation of the A.C.T.U. with
the Pan-Pacific empire-busters. Harry Knee-
bonb, of Adelaide, was nominated for the
Geneva job, but Harry has had no luck
since he resigned from the S. Aus. Parlia-
ment to contest a Federal seat and missed
He and Gibson were on the Westralian gold-
fields when the century was young—Knee-
bone as editor of the Coolgardie Miner and
Gibson as Westralian secretary of the
Engine-drivers and Firemen. “Gibby” is
Commonwealth secretary now.
The grandfather of airman Ulm was a
Frenchman who reached Australia by way
of Bolivia, for which country he was Con-
sul in Victoria for some time; his full-time
job was as artist-photographer for a leading
Melbourne firm. He decided in his old age
to return to France. Travelling in the train
one day he was accused by a fellow-passen-
ger, a woman, of having pinched her jewel-
lery, and arrested on a • railway station.
While lie was in custody the lady discovered
that she hadn’t lost her trinkets after all;
but the shock was too much for the old
chap, who collapsed and died.
One of the best-known and best-liked of
Costs-chasers in Maor land is Paddy O'Regan
a fine, large, commanding sort of* man who
specialises in industrial arbitration law.
iheres hardly a union secretary in the
Land of Ferns who hasn’t paid O'Regan a
guinea for advice that was worth a dozen
times as much. The O’Regan is a radical.
At a recent conference of legal folk in
Maoriland he spoke his mind very freely
about statements obtained from accused or
suspected persons by policemen. He had the
meeting with him, too, and still more so
when he urged that Judges and magistrates
should be elected by the legal fraternity and
paid a lot better than they are.
W. J. Bartlett, retired brewer and active
philanthropist of Goulburn (N.S.W.), is
such an inveterate giver that even in his 87th
year he cannot shake off the habit. The
massive war memorial on the hill above the
W. J. BARTLETT, Goulburn’s Grand Old
Man.
highland city stands on a broad expanse
which he purchased and handed over free
of debt; the road to it was built mainly with
his money; the memorial fund was swollen
by his donations. Last month he was pre-
sent at the opening of Goulburn’s new
Masonic temple, towards the creation of
which he contributed a huge sum, as well
as paying for the £lOOO pipe-organ installed
in the building. He landed in Goulburn
with a few shillings in his pocket, and took
his first barrel of beer around the town in
a wheelbarrow.
Brigadier” E. C. Slattery, who was sus-
pended for some outspoken criticism of the
High .Council of the Salvation Army, has
been reinstated. He has been appointed to
the command of the Army division in Peter-
borough (S.A.) —possibly for the same rea-
son that a turbulent Chinese general is “pro-
moted” to the Tibetan marches.
Colonel L. Haydon, now in Sydney, re-
cently retired from the Public Health ser-
vice of South Africa. A fine Rugby player
in his day, lie represented Aberdeen Univer-
sity and the North of Scotland before taking
his medical degree. Later he served in
West Africa and in the South African War,
and collected a D.S.O. in the Great War.
With Victorian connections, he intends to
settle in that State and may stand for Par-
liament.
Melbourne University Council has offered
the Chair of Anatomy to Wood Jones, at
present professoring at Hawaii University.
If he accepts it will be because Victoria
offers some opportunity for original research
like measuring the skulls of aldermen. For
a scientist, Jones has had a varied career.
He joined a cable ship in Australian and
North Asian waters in order to study the
marine growths that came up when a cable
was fished out of the depths; he went to
Cocos Island as the station medico in order
to study coral atolls; and his jobs as anthro-
pologist to the Egyptian Government and
professor in Adelaide Uni. were doors to
the study of arboreal man id Africa and
primitive man and animals in Central Aus-
tralia. Besides works on anthropology he
pleads guilty to the authorship of some
entertaining literary musings reviewed some
time ago on the Red Page.
Rhodes Scholar J. A. Seitz, who lias been
appointed Vic. chief inspector of secondary
schools for a probationary period of three
months, will draw at the rate of £OOO a y ar
or £lBO p.a. more than Miss Flynn, who
has gone back to her assistant chief inspec-
torship at £650 p.a.* If Director Hansen
gnts his way, Seitz will secure the job per-
manently, but there will be a tussle, pro-
bably on the first Supply Bill, when Parlia-
ment meets, in July, on the “sex prejudice”
issue.
Dr. Braudes, a U.S. Government patholo-
r-1 "’ ,T lth R - K - Peck for Pilot and Father
Ivirchbaum, of the Marienberg Mission, for
companion, recently (lew up the Sepik River
Mandated Territory, in a seaplane. From
Marienberg the adventurers travelled to
Ambunti, doing in 59 minutes a trip that
takes eight days by canoe; next day they
went on to the Dutch border and back. Only
ISew Guinea men can properly realise the
significance of such lightning travel. The
exped tion was sent out expressly to search
for disease-resisting varieties of the sugar-
cane, which grows wild along the swampy
oepik; it discovered a new red cane, of which
high hopes are held. Such ventures snow that
America will, spare neither men nor money
to get the things it wants.
Arthur Donnelly, who is the youngest
Crown Prosecutor in Maoriland, echoed a
recent Bulletin editorial when he argued
before the conference of the M.L. Daw
Society that Judges granted far too many
exemptions from jury service. He advanced
also the opinion, heretical from a legal
standpoint, that the man in the street is
very often a much better judge in equity
than the gent, in the wig who sits up aloft,
because the ordinary citizen is in closer
touch with everyday affairs and modes of
thought. The coping-stone of a plain-speak-
ing address was put on when he declared
that it was as impertinent for a Judge to
criticise the verdict of a jury as it would be
for a defeated party to criticise the decision
of a Judge.
John Douglas, sometime Premier of
Queensland and father of two of its Judges,
was Resident at Thursday Island when
the last great faction fight occurred
there. The whole pearling fleet was in, and
the Malays, Rotomah melt, Mauilamen and
what-not who manned it, swarmed about
Zarcle’s shop, many mad with drink.
Stones were thrown, knives were whipped
out, tomahawks were swung, a revol-
ver barked, and soon a big Rotomah
man wa s groaning his life out in front of
the Imperial Hotel, while a dozen lay help-
less with knife-wounds. John Douglas came
running down from the Residence with the
police at his heels. lie ran straight
in among those hundreds of maniacs,
his arms held above his head. “Stop it,
boys!” he shotted. “No more fight. Why
you no fight like men, not like butchers!
Stop it fight now; stop it!” Sullenly
the crowd collected into groups, murmur-
ings “All right, Father, we stop.” Douglas
held them until the military came doubling
down from the hill, their bayonets gleaming
and a rumbling nine-pounder behind them.
Presently there was not a colored man to
be seen, except the corpses.
“30-2-4” : From Sydney News :
Mr. William Minto, a resident of Nevertire for
40 years, has died, aged 83. He was a bachelor, and
a brother of Lord Minto, who died last year. He
had no relatives in this country.
An interesting par., in its way. However
(1) If deceased had been a brother of th-;
late (fourth) Lord Minto, his name would
have been Elliot. (2) If he had been a
H. W. HARRISON, secretary of the
Automobile Chamber of Industries in
Melbourne, who is organising the
International Motor Show to be held
next month.
brother and S 3, he would have been Lord
Minto himself; the present peer’s father
was only 67 when he died 15 years ago. (3)
No Lord Minto has died since 1914. (4)
No brother of any Lord Minto has settled in
Australia, or failed to marry, in the last
half-century. (5) If a member of this
family had lived in N. S. Wales he would
have found plenty of relations. The pre-
sent heir to the earldom (a cousin of the
fifth Lord Minto) married a daughter of Jus-
tice Langer Owen, of the Supreme Court
Bench. Otherwise, the par. is accurate.
HERB’S TO THEM!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Here’s to the girls that I’ve never met!
To Susan and Phoebe and sweet Nanette !
The girls I’ve read of in tales and novels—■
Who reigned in palaces, halls and hovels;
I’ve loved them all, and I love them yet—
Madeline, Maudie, Angelette!
Here’s to the girl with the melting eye,
The smiling lip and the conscious sigh ;
The braids of gold and the nimble tongue,
The heart that’s warm and the lip that’s
young!
She was a queen that I can’t forget—
Dainty, adorable Margaret!
Here’s to the dark-browed fiery jade
Who was half a mistress and half a maid;
\\ hose hand was as cool as a mountain
spring,
W hose hair was black as a raven’s wing!
For weeks she caused my heart to fret—
But not for so many as sweet Nanette!
And here’s to petulant, changeful Phoebe,
Good luck to her husband, whoever he be!
Burning to-day and freezing to-morrow,
Now all joy, and anon all sorrow!
Heartless young baggage, perhaps—and yet
lhe best of the‘girls that I never have met!
B.A.
C. H. SOUTER.


MAYBE THE DOG CAN’T READ.
“Commenting upon the inaction of the Federal Government, he said a great deal of the industrial trouble in Australia was caused by foreign-born agitators.”—
S. M. HERALD.
THE STABLE BOY (to owner): “What more can I do? 'I posted up the notice, didn’t I?”
Poverty
Point
Shep”: “Judas,” Germany’s latest in
heavy drama, is not made on the Biblical
episode, but is an attempt to perpetuate
memories of Sacco and Vanzetti. Audiences
are dragged through seven years of hunger
strikes and new trials, from the pair’s arrest
to their electrocution. Fifteen scenes,
mostly of courtroom and gaol incidents, give
realism to the story. All that seems to be
missing is a record of the street-wide sym-
pathy march at funeral pace through the
busiest streets by Sydney sympathisers, with
the still more impressive jumble of blocked
traffic following in the wake of the proces-
sion.
“Hugh Stone”: Without a mourner,
Frank Williams, early friend of Alfred Dam-
pier and J. F. Archibald, left Newcastle Hos-
pital for the Sandgate Cemetery, where, by
train or speeding motor-hearse, they bury
S? r ®,.? oa l city’s dead. Nearly 50 years ago
Williams arrived in Australia on the boat
that brought Dampier, and both put up at
Bowden’s, a pub that then rivalled the
Oxford, of King-street, where other theatri-
cals quartered. To Bowden’s came the man
who guided the destinies of The Bulletin
in earlier days. Often have I sat beside Wil-
liams in a Newcastle wine saloon talking of
the times when Archibald and his big black
dog Satan were familiar figures about Bow-
den’s. In his declining years Williams fell
on evil days. Two daughters and a son dis-
appeared “somewhere in France,” and he
had to accept the old-age pension. I did
not hear of his death until after tin last
sod had fallen over him—and then it was
a bit late to give him a send-off.
“Peter Pan”: “No. 17,” the Nat Madison
offering at Sydney Palace, has had a curi-
ous history in Australia. Madison secured
it when last in England, but the Firm ddn’t
feel disposed to use it, and there was nothing
in it for the elder Moscovitch. It drifted to
the Fullers, who staged it last year at Mel-
bourne Palace, with Walter Cornock in the
comedy lead. When Moscovitch returned to
England and it was decided to retain Nat,
a vehicle for his low-comedy was sought,
and “No. 17” was brought back into the
fold once more.
“Adsum”: Perth’s most magnificent
theatre, the Capitol, long despairing of pro-
grammes, has negotiated the trust hurdle
and opens its doors in May. Theatre, caba-
ret, offices and immense garage make an im-
posing house where the late Spencer’s Out-
door Pictures were wont to mix films and
mosquitoes for the humble bob, and where
later pugs knocked knobs and excrescences
off each other.
“Theseus”: When Romola Ilanstein re-
lieved Marie Bremner at Sydney Majesty’s—•
Marie’s voice having failed half-way through
the “Desert Song”—she was announced
as a new Australian singer. Romola, how-
ever, has been a good singer for years and
has done well as a No. 2 Williamson company
lead in the provinces; her “Wildflower” was
excellent. Had she been given tbe boost
accorded in Australia to quite ordinary Eng-
lish and United States musicomedians she
would have been a star long ago. Her father
taught music in Melbourne for a generation
and conducted the Victorian Opera Co. dur-
ing its prime. Ma also is a singer.
“C.R.”: Allan Priora has been brought
back from America by Hoyt’s. A good singer,
he had plenty of private recognition before
he left Australia, but none from the theatre
proprietaries. The Shuberts engaged him for
New York productions the moment they
heard him. Now the Australian entrepreneurs,
who could have had him in the first place
have to pay the high price always asked for
an imported commodity. It seems poor busi-
ness somehow.
„ : D ead on Long Island, New
York, Walter Howe, who 35 years ago was
the hero of many a Bland Holt drama Il'e
handed over the job to Walter Baker and
went into management with Hilda Spong
playing Orlando to her Rosalind, while pa
Spong supplied beautiful scenery. Other
pieces were “The Money Spinner,” in which
Charlie Westmacott made a hit as Lord
Ivengussie, “A Ring of Iron” and “Harbor
Lights.” They toured M.L. in 1594, and
Howe then left for U.S.A., where he acted
up to 1926. English, he first bowed to an
Australian audience under Holt’s regime in
Melbourne in 18S7. Like all pros, who leave
Australia, he was to come back some day
with a show of his own. But he never did.
“Hamfat”: The banalities of literature in-
clude film stories —novelettes made out of
the film plots, such as they are—which have
an amazing vogue among feminine film fans.
They are done in the vilest journalese; but
they are included in the mass of “literature”
which a brilliant Government allows to enter
the country duty free on the score that it
has an educative value.
“Cauboy”: Leo Darnton will be the Red
Shadow of the second “Desert Song” com-
pany now being formed by J.G.W. Leo’s
tenorish baritone figured brilliantly in the
recent Gilbert and Sullivan combination.
“C. 8.”: Australian pianist William Mur-
doch will open under the Tait management
on May 18 in Melbourne. Harold Williams,
the Sydney baritone, will assist him. Their
joint effort was to have fallen last year,
but the gr’opera season blocked it.
“S.T.S.”: Just come on an interesting par.
in an old Bulletin about the folly of
producers in “insisting on stage characters
shutting the door after them, which would
not be done in real life.” The answer is that
the plays, particularly those produced by
Boucicault (named as the horrible example),
are mostly English. Try, in any British
home, not shutting the door after you, and
you’ll see your shares crash quickly.
“Cauboy”: It is gratifying to note the
interest taken by the cinema parlors in the
higher branches of music and the rapid pro-
motion which comes the way of any musi-
cian who joins the great motion-picture
industry. Recently a Melbourne theatre
announced the engagement of a great violinist-
composer-virtuoso. He was “well known”
when he left America; when he landed in
Sydney he was “renowned”; and when 10
motor-cars met him at Spencer-street he was
already “world famous.” A local newspaper
devoted a page to advertisements of his taste
in clothes, hats and footwear, which, I am
glad to say, were all Australian. In the
circumstances, it is inexcusable that such
eminent authorities as Pratt’s Dictionary of
Musicians (1924) and Black’s work on the
same subject should be so silent about the
gentleman.
“F.S.”: It is refreshing to note that
while one imported artist treads on the
heels of another, and each cautiously adheres
to a repertoire that one has heard over and
over again, local organisations like Ber-
nard Heinze’s Melbourne Ilni. Symphony
Orchestra are planning for the winter
months concerts designed not only to please
the popular _ taste, but also to expand the
musical horizon for earnest concertgoers.
Heinze’s forthcoming programme includes that
glorious analysis of laughter, Beethoven’s
Eighth Symphony, which present writer
cannot remember having been done in Mel-
bourne at lea'st since 1914. Rimsky-Korsa-
koff’s “La Grande Paque Russe” will be
heard for the first time, and at each con-
cert an Australian artist with an overseas
reputation will take a leading part.
“Cine Ma”: A sad blow to the aspira-
tions of Edgar Wallace to be regarded as
an artist has been dealt by an English Judge.
Sydney Olcott, an American producer, w T as
engaged to make a “super-film” out of “The
Ringer,” the crook drama which helped to
make a fortune for Moscovitch in Australia.
Olcott was offered £4500 in 10 weekly in-
stalments and £450 a week thereafter if the
production was not finished. After studying
Edgar’s masterpiece for five weeks, he an-
nounced that it would not make a super-
film. In the subsequent law-suit the Judge
upheld the producer on the ground that, while
themes like the Great War or the French
Revolution might conceivably form the basis
of such a picture, a detective story, mainly
concerned with policemen, hopping through
trapdoors, would not.
“Zabut”: Here, at any rate, everyone is
not always anxious to appear as an actor for
a film. At the end of the first Test an Aus-
tralian firm was producing portion of a
gazette to be sent to England. The sub-
title was to be “Australia Mourns,” and the
producer wanted to show some Australians
looking dolefully at a score-board revealing
the debacle. The crowd was needed. Near
the spot selected for the shot a building was
being erected. The operator thought that he
had only to put it to the brickies on the job
and they would rush it. Their reply was:
“Go to blazes—we’re on piece-work here.”
“Fauteil”: Yet another Australian has
joined the stars who shine on Eroadway—
Estelle Fratus, of St. Kilda (Vic.), who four
years ago was waiting for her salary from a
beach show which did not pay. Later she
danced in a marionette act oil the Tivoli,
and the manager of Santrey’s band, here at
the time, induced her to go to America.
“L.H’.P.”: Orlando Daly, once well known
on the Australian stage, died recently in
U.S.A. He was last seen here with the
Broughs at Sydney Royal in 1902. lie was
in the English army before lie went on the
boards and rose to the post of A.D.C. Here
he played with Bentley, the Firm and Rig-
nold.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : G. IT. Clutsam, whose
musical romance “The Damask Rose” is at
time of writing being hurried on to the
boards, has had some high compliments paid
to him lately. Philip Page, the very learned
critic of the Evening Standard. has re-
minded the public that “the melody in ‘Lilac
Time’ acclaimed by so many as ‘Schubert
at his best’ was every note of it Clutsam’s
own composition.” Only a few weeks ago
the still more hypercritical Ernest Newman
wrote that Schubert’s music suffered nothing
by Clutsam’s arrangement of “Lilac Time,”
but that, on the contrary, its beauty was
often intensified and made more effective at
the hands of the Australian musician.
FOR ART’S SAKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Charlie Chaplin has astonished the cinema world
by a declaration that he will never appear in talking
films, which he asserts are ruining the motion-picture
art.”
Farewell, a long farewell, my Art!
I will not tarry—God forfend !
To see my dainty Custard Tart
With vulgar Talkies mix and blend.
I’ll have no truck with hucksters base,
The knaves who make their venal choice,
And in the picture-market chase
The dollars with the human voice.
No act of mine the tragedy
Of this declension shall assist;
No “glugging” sound will come from me
As I my classic features twist
Upbn the screen ; no crowds shall hear
A “swosh!” as lands a custard pie
On someone’s cliiv. Though others bear
Their part in this descent —not I!
Believe me, it would break my heart
To have to stoop to tricks like these!
I take my stand for Art, high Art,
And scorn one downward step to please
The groundlings vile. Serene above
The money-hunt I’ll stand, and fly
Above my head the standard of
The great (but silent) Custard Pie!
N.s.w.
HAMFAT.


£
4
<4
A
W
\\
m
s*
r:
?X
™£Z&p.
/x I r—%
i <
' v -*3.
«1L
; i'lr-
'
Va
©
No. 628 "4711”
Powders, perfumed
with "4711” Eau
de Cologne, 2/6 &
3/6 per box.
No. 642 Compact
Powder, perfumed
with "4711” Tosca,
4/6 each.
The Summer Qirl’s
Preference!
The universal popularity
of the Blue and Gold
labelled Eau de
Cologne is due to the fact
that, for nearly 150 years,
it has been made from the
finest ingredients, according,
to the original recipe. It never
varies in quality, and its pur-
ity, fragrance and strength
m
1 1 ** (Mtfw • j|
mc«l»6*S3C "••»'• /a
EAU DE COLOGNE
No. 43
Watch Shape
2/3
No. ' 5
Original Shape
6, 6
No. 50
The new site
which holds as
much as 20 of
the 2/3 size,
30/-; and sizes
from 1/6 to
75/* P er bottle.
WL
GAU DC COLOGNE
mil Ml congeal
An imefjualled
Shampoo hr the has
No. 951 "4711”
Eau de Cologne
Liquid Shampoo,
3/- per bottle. Rose
and Eau dc Cologne
perfume.
I 1
m
SafiSiS
E 26:
No. 475 "4711”
Bath Sails, per-
fumed with "4711”
Eau de Cologne.
3/6. 4/6 & 5/6
per bottle.
No. 859 "4711”
Eau de Cologne
Soap, 1/3 per cake.
Eau de Cologne and
Lavender Perfume.
LX .
have never been
surpassed.
When buying Eau de
Cologne insist upon the
Blue and Gold labelled
~mr
Obtainable from all leadin
chemists and departmental
stores.
St
AM
SoJman*
No. no "4711”
"Frozoclone”
Solid Eau de
Cologne, 3/6 ft
4/6.
re
rDJfulkC
/
No. 463 "4711”
Cold Cream
1/9, 3/- & 3/9
No. 453 "4711”
Vanishing
Cream,
1/3, 2/3 « 3/.
mi
O
Eaude
Cologne


RIN-TIN-TIN
ē
the
famous
Screen
Actor
is fed
exclusively
on
Ken-I Ration
THE DOG FOOD SUPREME
FREE—Sample Tin sent to any address
in the Commonwealth.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB, P. 0. Box 1821, Melbourne
n
nulls
m
Reliability is the Main
Feature of this Watch
It’s a genuine *‘Fx & R” silver Wristlet Watch,
cushion shape, beautifully finished, and with
luminous dial and unbreakable glass. It is an
accurate and reliable timekeeper and will give
years of useful service.
Complete with strap and silver
buckle. Excellent value at .. . .
£6/6/-
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
PLAIN FIGURES.
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
CASH ONLY.
INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
branches in various states.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Desert Song”
Criterion “Young Woodley”
Royal Pavlova
Paiace “ho. 17”
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Vagabond King”
Royal “This Year of Grace”
King’s “Sweet Nell of Old Drury”
New Comedy “Kempy”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
♦
Anna Pavlova, taller sister of the Little
People, rather thinly disguised as a human,
proved at Sydney Royal on Saturday night
that she is Pavlova still —a possibility that
some pessimistic souls had ventured in
advance to doubt. When that is said it is
scarcely necessary to add that her personal
performance was superbly graceful. It was
a charming entertainment merely to watch
her go off and come on stage, responding to
repeated salvos of roof-lifting applause that
was applause! This Showman has heard
nothing quite like it for years. It rolled out
thunderously, as spontaneous as the art that
woke it.
Pav. is supported by a strong cast and
ballet, yet beside her the best of them seemed
to lack something—the ethereal quality called
personality. During her absences the enter-
tainment never wanted for vitality or beauty,
but when she was present it became a differ-
ent thing altogether, soared To a plane diffi-
cult to indicate without seeming to gush.
In the principal offering, the two-act ballet
“Giselle,” she sustained the Ophelia-like
name-part imaginatively through long
stretches of exacting art-work. In a compara-
tively minor piece like the gavotte in the last
phase of the triptych bill her performance
was an epitome of feminine charm —a retort
as crushing as its presentation was exquisite
to the coarse nigger sexualities, the crude
floppings and waggings of jazz.
Giselle, of the Henri de Saint Georges and
Theophile Gautier ballet, is a pretty Rhine-
side maid who wins the love of a count,
already betrothed for purposes of State.
The wooing goes on about the vineyard cot-
tage, a rather plain setting that is flooded
with color by the brilliant raiment of the
peasant girls, who weave through rustic
dance to buoyant and heart-free music. It
is a jolly setting, with another lover of
Giselle’s the only discord. Pavlova’s inter-
pretation of the pretty peasant girl ecstatic
with love is exquisite dumb acting; then,
ADA REEVE, back once more on the Tivoli circuit.
after the girl has discovered the identity of
her lover, and, realising that the affair is
hopeless, becomes insane, the dancer expresses
the tragedy with a completeness that is
rarely achieved by Ophelias, for whom, of
course. Bill Shakspeare’s words do most of
the job that here has to be managed with shut
mouth. The bewildered dance leads up to
climax in Giselle’s death, and the second
scene is placed in the realm of the super-
natural. The grave is laid in a wood ideally
planned for haunting. Here the spirits dance
eerily about, conjure Giselle up from the
sod and invite her to join them. The bro d-
ing rival of the first act wanders in, and the
spirits, having made short work of him, turn
their attentions to the lover, who has also
happened along. Giselle saves him by mak-
ing him hold to the cross, and with the
approach of daylight the wraiths clear off.
Then the lover and the ghost of his love fight
vainly against her inevitable return to the
ghost-world. Day breaks; he lays her on
a bed of flowers; she sinks through it, and
he collapses.
The ballet is carried through its operatic
movements on the reedy music of Adolphe
Adam, admirably transmuted from the score
by the conducting of the youthful Efrem
Kurtz. Supporting Pavlova were Pierre
Vladimiroff, Ruth French and about a score
others. After the ballet all the principals
appeared in short numbers, including the
gavotte and Russian, Spanish, eighteenth
century, pastoral and French. In these, pre-
sent Showman took most enjoyment from
Pianowski, chiefly because that gentleman
possesses a fine sense of humor and expresses
it in movements almost as airy as Pavlova’s
own. The Spanish dance of Nina Kirsanova
was another extra-choice morsel. Pavlova
wound up the triumphant procession with
Ponchielli’s “Dance of the Hours.”
The Governor-General, State Ex. and
parties occupied the boxes.
If present arrangements hold “The Magic
Flute” and “Snowflakes” will be presented
this afternoon (Wednesday), with “La F ile
Mai Garden” and “Chopiniana” to night an I
on Friday night. To-morrow night “G selle”
is to be repeated, and at a matinee on Satur-
day “Visions” and “La Fille Mai Garden”
will be the bill. Saturday night’s offering
is to be “Amarilla” and “Oriental Impres-
sions.” In the meantime it might not be a
bad idea if somebody drove a nine-inch nail
through the loose board in the centre of the
stage. It did not affect Pavlova, because she
could dance silently on a bag of tins, but
one or two other mgde it rattle industriously.
* * *
The most important show in Melbourne
last week occurred on the site of the old
Melbourne Gaol. The production was staged
by the Government—at any rate, Ministers
connived at it by their indifference. Admis-
sion was free, so there was a large if not
higlily-culturcd audience. Small boys were
in the majority. It was an open air per-
formance. The Bulletin sent a represen-
tative in the interests of veracity.
If playbills had been printed they would
probably have announced “The La3t Appear-
ance of Ned Kelly—Australia’s National
Hero, etc.” How-
ever, there was no
need for playbills.
The news of the
event spread like
wildfire. The site
is being cleared for
an extension of the
neighboring Work-
ingmen’s College.
Presumably the
authorities knew
that the bodies of
upwards of 20
malefactors lie
buried between the
walls that have to
be demolished. It
did not occur to
them, apparently,
that even a mur-
derer’s bones are
entitled to be
treated with com-
mon decency. On
a previous day a
stone bearing the
initials “E.K.” and
an arrow pointing
downwards h a d
been dislodged, and
there was an im-
mediate rush for it.
The contractor
secured the preci-
ous relic just be-
fore two men tore
up in a motor-car
and flourished £2O
in notes under the
disappointed noses
of the workmen.
On Friday the
steam shovel began
to scoop into what
was once intended
to be Ned Kelly’s
final resting place.
When the machine
neatly shaved off the lid of a red-
gum coffin and disclosed a skeleton
imbedded in quicklime but in a re-
markably good state of preservation, there
was a wild scramble for the fragments. A
small boy made off with a fibula protruding
from his inside pocket, hotly pursued by a
showman offering a small fortune for the
sacred emblem. Another small boy offered
Tiie Bulletin a handful of teeth whose
condition indicated that whatever pricks
conscience may have given him, the bush-
ranger never suffered from a toothache. A
well-known publican ploughed amongst the
clay anxiously asking after the skull.
That one-time domicile for Ned Kelly’s
hopes, hates and perverted ambitions eventu-
ally reached the contractor’s office minus the
lower jaw and most of the molars, and ,an
official there informed this paper that it was
available to the highest bidder. Now that
the Kellys have gone, like an Old Master, into
private circulation, it will not be long before
there are more people going about_ with
genuine Kelly clavicles in their waistcoat
pockets than there
are footprints of
the Buddha; and
n o bookmaker’s
dinner-table will be
complete without a
salt-cellar fashioned
out of a joint of
the murderer’s ver-
tebra; obtained
from the nearest
abattoirs.
It was a fine
show, from the
standpoint of a
student of the
assault-and-murder
weeklies, though
others might regard
it as revolting. If
the responsible
authorities are sat-
isfied with their
Kell y premiere
they still have mat-
erial for a long
season. Colin
Ross, Angus Mur-
ray, Mrs. Needle
and Deeming,
among others, lie
adjacent. The last-
named was in his
day a star of inter-
national magnitude.
* *
There is just a
chance that the for-
ward-looking gen-
tlemen who have
been prophesying
the complete de-
struction of the
legitimate theatre
in all its branches
owing to the advent
of the noisies may
be unduly optimis-
tic. At any rate,
the present diehard felt some slight acces-
sions of doubt the other evening when he at-
tended Australian singer Evelyn Seotney’s
initial concert at Melbourne Auditorium.
It was only a few. weeks since he had
lent the light of his criticism to the inaugu-
ration of the talkies in the very same
building. He was duly impressed at the un-
canny wonder of the achievement. But the
impression he carried away on that occasion
was of having been seated for a couple of
hours in an insufficiently-lighted cavern sur-
rounded by an audience of corpses listening
to sundry world-renowned persons, who, for
some inexplicable reason, preferred to sing
or talk with their heads inside culverts. The
trouble about singing in a culvert is that
the two ends of the vocal scale are apt to
be obliterated and the middle unduly magni-
fied. It is like setting out to paint an
infinitely varied landscape equipped with
nothing but a tarbrush. It may not have been
quite like that, but the tendency was in
that direction.
From Scotney’s concert one carried home
a somewhat different impression. In the
first place, the lady’s exquisitely-wavy
soprano demolished the walls of the Audi-
torium, as the trumpets did those of Jericho.
Then those mounting notes of hers, which
never get out of control however wildly they
seem to be rushing upwards, lifted the roof
off. One was no longer squatting, some-
what lumpified in spirit, in a cavern. One
was sitting, miraculously protected from the
weather, under the blue sky and amidst a
varied and smiling landscape. Artists as
great as Scotney have sung from the screen
in Melbourne without performing this
miracle. Why, present writer, not being a
professor of acoustics, doesn’t presume to
explain. He merely puts the fact on record.
At her first appearance Scotney, clad in
Jenny Lind costume, warbled deliciously
through a panel said to have been Jenny’s
favorites. The Australian singer has no
need to lean on the reputation of any other
singer, dead or living. She has an individu-
ality of her own, and her voice and artistry,
mellowed since the occasion—six years ago
to a day—when she last sang in Melbourne,
are the unobtrusive vehicles for her natural
fervor for the simple things of life. She
likes to sing of bucolic love (Purcell’s
“There’s Not a Swain on the Plain”) : and
of domestic incidents (Haydn’s “My Mother
Bids Me Bind My Hair”) ; and she sings
them supremely well, with an arch and capti-
vating sincerity. There is something ven-
triloquial in her voice—the extraordinary
refrain of “The Echo Song” seemed to
approach one from all directions. The Ger-
man numbers were poorly enunciated, but
very subtly rendered. The Blue Danube
Waltz —what a gorgeous bit of decoration
that is!—-was sung with pomp and ardor.
Pianist William James, looking as sur-
prised at himself as a Digger parading in
pyjamas, added to the gaiety of the evening
by appearing in Early-Victorian costume to
play a Beethoven sonata; and Donald Mc-
Beath, another Australian, provided general
support by drawing his bow crisply over a
RUBY MAY, clever Melbourne amateur, who led in “Juno and
the Paycock” at the Repertory performance on April 5.
violin, though he was out of tune in the
“Ave Maria” of Schubert.
V
Erica Morini continued to attract the sort
of houses her fiddling merits to Sydney Town
Ilall last week. She gave three concerts,
on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, wind-
ing up with a concert of pieces that are and
deserve to be popular. She began on Satur-
day with the Goldmark “Air” and went on
to Bach’s profound Adagio and Fugue in G
minor, a majestic thing for violin alone.
Another well-known piece in the bill, or at
least one that includes well-known items, was
the difficult Wieniawski Concerto in I) minor.
Sarasate’s “Carmen Fantasie,” the “Melodie”
of Gluck, the Beethoven-Kreisler “Rondino,”
and for encores Kreisler’s “Caprice Vien-
nois” and Schubert’s “Ave Maria” ended a
performance in which Morini, her dark hail"
hanging forward over her eyes, seemed to
lose herself in the delight of her playing as
completely as the audience did. The season
closes to-morrow (Thursday) night, and The
Bulletin commends the performance to any-
one who enjoys fiddling that is done with
grand warmth of feeling and control of the
sensuous instrument.
* * *
Wondergraph is taking the lead in Adel-
aide with talkies. Whether they are worth
while is another question; public opinion
seems fairly divided, for and against. But
the novelty has kept A 1 Jolson and “The
Jazz Singer” at this house for an unprece-
dented six weeks. Nellie Stewart has
had a great fortnight at the Royal
as that other Nell who vanquished
all rivals for the favor of Charles
II. —and then (as alleged here) said Good-
night and went home. This house is just
switching to music, “The Girl Friend” ; but
the Prince of Wales sticks to the straight
drama, Williamson, Bellairs and Popular
Prices. Spivakovsky holds the Town Hall.
* * *
Nellie Bramley’s effort at Brisbane Royal
this week is “Relations,” a comedy-drama of
Jewish American family life. Quite good,
though a fair way off being a “Potash and
Perlinutter.” That emotional talkie “The
Jazz Singer” introduces the noisy flicks to
the city at the Wintergarden on Saturday.
* * *
Charged with having committed entertain-
ments on Saturday at Sydney Royal and
Melbourne Comedy respectively, Nat Madi-
son and others and Ruth Nugent and others
have been found guilty. Reserved judgment
next week.


INSURE WITH THE
STb
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Company—
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
ii CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, n.s.w.
£
The most famous little book
on Business ever written.
We will gladly send you a
complimentary copy.
Name
Business Address
Position B 3
Modern
Roma Dome,
Limited,
The Directors desire to
announce that the
Subscription List has
been closed.
Total subscribed
capital 200,000 shares
of Ten Shillings ( I 0/-)
each.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Wunderlich, Ltd.
, Dividends N
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profits. 7 p.c. Ordinary, serves, server,.
i, £ £» £» £>
1918.. 22,931 5600 9 p.c. = 12,834 4,497 33,175
1919.. 25,901 5600 10 „ „ 15,739 4,622 37,794
1920.. 27,870 5600 10 „ „ 21.784 486 38.280
1921.. 45,837 5600 12* „ „ 37.500 2,737 41.017
1922.. 36,139 5000 10 „ „ 30,000 539 41,556
1923.. 36,800 5600 10 „ „ 30,000 1,200 42,756
1924.. 43,540 5600 12* „ „ 37.500 440 43,190
1925.. 36,209 5600 10 „ „ 30,000 609 43,805
1920.. 45.330 5600 12* „ ~ 37,500 2,230 4(5,041
Added to goodwill, £3OOO .. .. 43,041
Premiums on new shares, £45,000 . . 88,041
1927.. 04,143 5600 14 p.c. = 43,400 15,143 103.184
1928.. 69,553 5000 14 „ „ 56,925 7,028 110,212
Added to goodwill, £5186 . . . . 105,026
1929.. 71,358 5600 14 p.c. = 60,350 5,408 110,434
Profits in the table are arrived at after
allowing for transfers to the staff-partners’
and superannuation fund and dividends on
staff-partners’ certificates. These alloca-
tions arc part of the management’s scheme
to provide for retiring employees and for
dependants of deceased employees, in the
meantime giving the office and workshop
stfdl's a direct incentive to promote the eo.’s
interests. Contributions to the staff fund
and dividends paid on employees’ certificates
since 1022 have been as follows: —
Certi- Divs., Certi- Divs.,
fleates. etc. fleates. etc.
1922 .. £1572 1926 .. £15,000 £3905
1923 .. £1,935 1585 1927 .. 15,000 5010
1924 .. 16,175 2525 1928 .. 15,009 5680
1925 ~ 9,075 2470 1929 . . 15,000 6657
Last year’s net profit as shown by the
accounts was £93,015, equal to 20.5 p.c. on
average ord. capital, after allowing for pref.
requirements, compared with 20.8, 25.3, 19.5
and 14.2 p.c. back to 1925. They are
attractive results; in winning them paid
capital (£520,000) has the help of the staff-
partners’ and superannuation fund (£116,368
at Feb. 28) and £110,434 of reserves. The
latter figure excludes £73,888 of goodwill,
up £5186 during the year and no doubt
worth a good deal more; but in accordance
with its usual custom, the “Wild Cat” sticks
to tangibles. The falling-off of 4.8 p.c. in
the earning power of capital over the past
two years has followed on the heels of the
issue of 140,000 new ords.—l2o,ooo of them
shortly before the close of the 1927 accounts
at a 7s. 6d. premium and 20,000 during the
’ past term. Naturally it will take time for
so much new capital to earn at the same
rate as the old.
The board takes the view generally that
present shareholders arc entitled to current
net profits; hence distributions have been
close up to earnings. Obviously, however,
if the shareholder gets the profit as it is
made he can’t get it afterwards in the shape
of shares or other bonus distributions.
During the past term two terra-cotta roof-
ing-tile works —one at Perth and another at
Brisbane—were purchased as going concerns,
which accounts for the addition of £5186 to
the goodwill item. Also a property adjoin-
ing the co.’s workshops at Rcdfern was
bought to allow for expansion. Part of the
consideration was the issue of 20,000 fully-
paid ords. amongst the respective vendors.
The Perth and Brisbane purchases com-
plete the co.’s chain of factories in the capi-
tal cities of the Commonwealth, and the
connections also extend to Maoriland. Under
an alert and enterprising management the
process of expansion continues. Plant for
manufacturing architectural terra-cotta,
which was installed in the co.’s Sydney
works in 1924, has since been annually
enlarged, and a similar factory has been
built at Sunshine (Vic.). The mauve-colored
glaze on the bricks which form the external
surface of the N.S.W. Government Savings
Bank building in Sydney is the work of the
Sydney plant. A contract for the supply of
similarly glazed bricks for another large
Sydney building is at present in hand. Inci-
dentally, it is the first time this class of
work has been done in Australia.
The absorption of the Perth and Brisbane
businesses and the purchase of the Sydney
freehold are reflected in balance-sheet
figures:—
1920. 1928. 1929.
Shareholders’ rnpital .. £379,066 £500,000 £520,000
Employees’ capital .. 14,040 102,100 116,368
Liabilities .. .. 38,244 86,789 124,031
Freeholds ... .. 151,559 290,734 329,678
Leaseholds .. .. 9,659 1,642 1,792
Plant, etc 108,926 204,843 247,045
Stocks 136,390 205,060 198,842
Book debts ~ .. 64,342 126,035 128,271
Cash, etc 16,598 9,248 5,743
Freeholds (£329,678) are up £35,944, and
plant, etc. (£247,045) is £42,202 greater.
In addition to the increase of £20,000 in
capital account, the outside debt (£116.368)
grew £14.26S as a result of these additions
to fixed assets, and the more-or-less liquid
surplus, including stocks (£198.842. down
£6218), was £44,729 fighter at £208.825,
but the position was still very comfortable.
Plant is shown less depreciation, but no
hint is given as to what has been written
off. Indications are that sufficient has been
allowed in the past. Prospects largely
depend upon activities in the building trade,
which is still fairly well occupied in some
of the capital cities, but the signs are that
it will ease rather than accelerate.
The scrip ranks high amongst industrial
stocks. The ords. are priced at 455. (as
against 38s. a year ago), at which figure
the return is 6.2 p.c. on a 14 p.c. div. basis.
The backing amounts to 245. 3d. in net tan-
gibles. The first prefs. are similarly backed
by £l7 15s. 2d., the second prefs. by £1
loss. The former are priced at 225. 9d.,
thereby allowing a return of 6.2 p.c., while
the latter are priced at 225., at which figure
the return is 6.4 p.c.
Perkins and Co., Ltd. (Brisbane).
Dividend and Writ- Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividend Tax. ten off. serves.
£ £ £ £
1917.. 22,630 6 p.c. = 16,797 5833 5,669
1918.. 25,118 7 „ „ 19.599 4519 6,669
1919.. 25,066 7 „ ~ 19,599 4467 7,669
1920.. 26,235 74 „ ~ 19,698 5537 8,669
Reserves diselosed, £80.220 .. 88,889
Reserves capitalised, £88,889 ..
1921.. 26.941 74 p.c. = 24,138 2803
1922.. 23,054 6 „ „ 22,666 388 -
Reserves diselosed, £29,289 .. 29.289
1923.. 24,676 64 p.c. = 24,565 29,409
1924.. 28,353 7 „ „ 26,4 44 31.318
1925.. 30,427 8 „ „ 29,332 32,413
1926.. 23.550 8 „ „ 28,443 27,520
1927.. 23.858 64 ~ „ 23,492 27,880
Assets written up, £lB,OOO .. .. 45,886
Loss.
1928.. 10,501 Nil 29,325
1929.. 26,955 Nil 2,370
The accounts just presented are the first
available since circumstances decided this
one-time prosperous Brisbane brewing co. to
shut down its plant and sell its trade and
some of its other assets to the Castlemaine,
Quinlan Gray Co. That was in July. 11)28,
when the Castlemaine Co. acquired the Perkins
Co.’s Toowoomba brewery, part of the Bris-
bane plant, the trade-marks, etc., and the
trade (only) of the 10 freehold hotels for
25 years, and that of 50 leasehold hotels for
the terms of their leases, paying for the lot
£120.000 in 160,000 12s. Gd. shares valued
at 15s. each. Under the agreement the
Perkins Co. must keep out of the trade for
12 years.
Following the merger the Castlemaine Co.
changed its name to Castlemaine, Perkins,
Ltd., and shortly afterwards made an issue
of 190,000 12s. Gd. shares, of which Perk ns’s
whack was 40,000, apparently paid for in cash.
The 160.000 shares allotted for assets rank
for dividend as from July 31, 1928, and as
Castlemaine divs. are paid in March and
September and are applicable to the half-
years ending July and January, nothing has
yet been received on the holding.
During the year Perkins’s assets, were
written up apparently by £111,5G0, but the
directors say that the loss on realisation of
plant and the amount written off book debts
have offset the appreciation. The accounts
themselves are badly presented, and are
most uninformative. Appreciation of assets,
rents of hotels, sale of leases, altogether
amounting to £76,238, are shown as income
in p. and 1. account, and whether the appre-
ciation is less losses on realisation is uncer-
tain. Trading from March to July, 1928,
was unprofitable, the report further states,
and the heavy charge for exes, and taxation
(£85,194, up £38,269) supports this state-
ment.
Shares in other cos. are not shown sepa-
rately in the accounts. They are lumped
with freehold hotels, etc., at £571,128 in the
balance-sheet, but are said to be valued at
cost price (£145,000). Thus the balance
(£426,128) of the omnibus item may be
assumed to represent hotels, etc., and that is
only £42,680 less than the figure at which
breweries, plant and hotels appeared in the
last accounts. It is an indication of the
large-scale nature of the writing up. It is
possible, of course, that the co. owns shares
in other cos. beside the Castlemaine concern,
but no inkling that such was the case was
given in the 1928 accounts.
The next table is illuminating, and sug-
gests heavy losses on the liquidation of stocks
and book debts :
1922. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Stocks .. £94,048 £101,984 £97,545
Loans, b o ok
debts, etc. 137,369 209,465 223,390 £139,448
Cash, etc. . . 22,825 2,135 4,490 4,447
£254,242 £313,584 £325,425 £143.895
Liabilities .. 78,950 306,848 390,198 337,945
Liquid surplus £175,292 £6,736
Excess liabilities £64,773 £194,050
Although stocks (£97.545 at Feb.. 1928)
have been eliminated from the accounts, and
book debts (£139,448) reduced by £83,942,
cnsli. etc. (£4447). is slightly Iras and the
outside debt has been worked down by only
£52,253. In other words, after allowing for
the cash purchase of 40.000 shares in the
Castlemaine Co. at 12s. 6d.. of the £181,487
by which stocks and book debts were reduced
during the year about £104,277 represents
losses and writings-down. That is, of course,
subject to any purchase of fixed assets, and
very few are likely to have been made.
Apart from hotel rentals the co.’s chief
source of income should now be its holding
in the Castlemaine Co. The latter concern
has a paid capital of £593,750, of which
£218.750 came in since July, 1928. including
shares issued to the Perkins Co. In its last
term to July, 1928, the Castlemaine Co.
netted £48.742, out of which an 8 p.c. div.
and a 2 p.c. bonus was paid. A similar dis-
tribution on the present capital would call
for £10,633 more than was netted last year.
The Perkins Co. is now trying to dispose
of its brewery premises in Mary-street, Bris-
bane, and until that is done the position will
remain clouded. Out of whatever proceeds
accrue from the sale of fixed assets must first
of all he paid the £194 050 excess of liabili-
ties over liquids; after that, if the process of
realisation continues, there might be prospects
of a return of capital, but it is possible that
the co. will retain its freehold hotels for the
sab" of the rentals.
The net tangible backing of the scrip de-
pends upon whether all bad assets have been
pruned out of the co.’s accounts. On paper
the £1 shares are backed by slightly over
205., mostly in freeholds and shares. That
is without taking into account an internal
reserve of £45,000 in the .Castlemaine hold-
ing at present market valuation. For the
Perkins Co.’s scrip the market pays 155.,
thereby heavily discounting the book value of
fixed assets and book debts.
Amalgamated Pictures, Ltd.
, Dividends N Nominal
Profits. Pref. Ord. Reserves.
Feb., £ £ £ £
1919. . 6,022 10 p.c. = 1200 5 p.c. = 3035 70,210
1920.. 5,219 10 „ ~1200 5 „ ~3035 71,194
1921.. 10,076 10 „ „ 1200 10 „ „ 6071 78,999
1922.. 7,214 10 „ „ 1200 10 „ ~6071 73,942
1923.. 6,243 10 „ ~ 1200 5 „ ~3035 75,950
1924.. 6,224 10 „ ~1200 10 „ ~6071 74,903
1925.. 6,136 10 „ ~ 1200 10 „ ~6071 73,768
1926.. 9,779 10 „ ~1200 10 „ ~6071 76,276
1927.. 8,332 10 „ ~ 1200 10 „ ~6071 77,336
1928.. 10,069 10 ~ ~1200 10 „ ~6071 80,134
1929.. 10,531 10 „ ~1200 10 „ ~8550 80,915
The 10 p.c. distribution last year left only
£7Bl to be carried to reserves; the surplus
was £2798 in the year before. However,
the lower earning power of funds (the
£10,531 netted last year was equal to 10.8
p.c. on average capital compared with 13.8,
11.5, 13.4 and 8.4 p.c. back to 1924) is not
a matter for immediate concern ; it is mainly
due to the additional capital issued during
the term not having yet got properly to
work.
In August last year Union Theatres,
Ltd., increased its subscribed capital from
£300,000 to £700,000 by the issue of 400,000
new ord. shares. Union Theatres is con-
trolled by the General Film Co. and the
Greater J. D. Williams Co., which between
them own all the shares. Australasian Films,
Ltd., is similarly controlled. The Amal-
gamated Co. owns shares in the General
Film Co.—at the 1928 balance its holding of
48,286 shares was valued at £87,616 in the
books, representing 43,808 shares each in
Union Theatres and Australasian Films. In
order to take up its quota of 270,000 shares
in Union Theatres, the General Film Co.
issued a similar number of its own shares
to its respective holding cos., Amalgamated’s
quota being 58,428. The co. financed the
purchase by issuing 60,710 of its shares to
shareholders in a one-for-one par issue.
At February 28 Amalgamated’s holding
of 106,714 shares in the General Film Co.
appeared in its books at £138,429, and there
was then £7615 still unpaid on the shares.
The co.’s own capital account (£129,281)
shows an increase of £56,571, and there
was £4139 still to come in when the books
closed. Whether Union Theatres has been
able to make immediate use of all the
capital raised is not known, as that co.
does not publish its accounts, but even if
it had been able to, with all the ramifica-
tions in which the combine is involved it
is quite possible that Amalgamated Pictures
has not yet received a div. on its increased
holding, although the 10 p.c. div. on its
own enlarged capital has been maintained.
In addition to its shareholdings, the co.
owns the Melbourne Majestic Theatre, a
leasehold on which it has spent over £34.000.
Union Theatres runs the Majestic, Amal-
gamated collecting the rent. Another in-
terest is the St. Rilda Theatre, in at
£8426. Earnings from properties jumped
£282 last year, but divs., etc., remained
practically unchanged:—
Properties. Divs., etc. Expenses.
1920 .. .. £4468 £2452 £1306
1922 .. .. 4752 4465 1570
1923 .. .. 4820 3533 1675
1924 .. .. 4888 3038 1267
1925 .. .. 4963 3679 2072
1926 .. .. 4949 7501 2238
1927 .. .. 4831 5932 1996
1928 .. .. 4724 8012 2234
1929 .. .. 5006 8020 2061
For the 12 months to June 30 last Union
Theatres netted £07.680. equal to 32.0 p.c.
on its then paid capital of £300.000. The
result was equal to more than the combined
profits of Union Theatres and Australasian
Films for 1925, so that a good deal of pro-
gress has been made. In 1926 (the only
year’s figures available) Australasian rums
netted £32.442, as against Union T heatre s
£71.150, so that hiring is not nearly so
profitable as showing. The most recent de-
velopment affecting the operating cos. was
the opening of the new “State” Theatre, m
Melbourne, in February. The is
leased from a subsidiary. Union Theatres
(Vic.), Ltd., for. 25 years. The “State
Theatre in Sydney is scheduled to open
this month. It is in connection with these
theatres that some of the capital raised re-
cently has been used. One of the possible
dangers on the showing side of the picture
business seems to be the over-capitalisation
of the industry as a whole: in other words,
the building of too many theatres.
Here is a picture of the business as
shown in balance-sheet figures: —
1925. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Mortgages . . . . £2,500 £2,500 £2,500 £2,500
Creditors .. . . 1,080 1,898 2,143 2,106
Freeholds . . . . 6,505 5,926 8,642 8,426
Leaseholds (at cost) 34,288 34,288 34,288 34,288
Shares and deben-
tures .. .. 103,316 103,316 103,316 154,129
Book dehtH . . 4,810 10,983 11,226 20,167
Cash, etc. .. 11,462 11,889 12,824 13,972
In addition to its share-holding, the co.
owns £11,700 of debentures in the General
Film Co. —£11,000 of these and the 48,286
shares originally held represent the price
paid for Amalgamated’s interests when the
combine cos. were formed in 1915. Nearly
£60,000 of the purchase consideration was
for goodwill, which surplus was added to
reserves to provide against fluctuations in
the value of the shares.
The tangible backing of this co.’s scrip is
unknown, owing to the hidden intangibles
in Australasian Films. The prospectus of
Union Theatres (Vic.) disclosed that the
backing for each Union Theati’es share at
June 30 last was £1 os. lid., after deduct-
ing leases and goodwill (£299,533).
The market, impressed by the co.’s pro-
spects, pays 28s. for the ord. shares, at
whicli figure the return is 7.1 p.c. on a 10
p.c. div. basis. Buyers recently offered 295.
for the 10 p.c. cum. par. prefs. without
attracting sellers.
Paul and Gray, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Dee., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1919 .. 30,071 10 p.c. = 15,000 15,071 31,112
Trail.'l erred to capital . . 26.000 6,112
Co. reconstructed. Assets written up, goodwill
included at £66,000 and seven £1 fully-paids in
new eo. issued for every four in old.
Net To Reduce
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
1920 32,279 10 p.c. = 17,575)
(Chios.) Reserved for taxes, 6,000 J- 5,704 59,296
Employees’ bonus, 3,000 )
1921 .. 26,588 6i p.c. = 21,966 4,619 54,677
Loss. Added.
1922 .. 39,425 2J „ „ 8,787 48,212 102,889
Capital written off, £52,725 .. 50,164
Reserved for bad debts, 8,830 .. 59,000
1923 .. 2,966 Nil 2,966 61,966
1924 .. 4,674 Nil 4,674 66.640
Reserves.
Capital written off, £79,087.. .. 12,447
Reserved for bad debts, contingencies,
etc., £12,447 .. .. ..
Profit.
1925 .. 11,830 Nil 11,830 11,830
Profit on sale of asset, £783.. .. 12,613
1926 .. 12,144 6 p.c. = 13,181 11,576
1927 .. 4,409 2 „ „ 4,394 15 11,591
Former years’ taxation, £2054 . . 9,537
1928 .. 5229 4 p.c. = 8,787 5,979
Even that small distribution to shareholders
seems scarcely justified. The 4 p.c. handed
out was £3558 in excess of declared earn-
ings, and as a bill amounting to £2054 for
1025-26 taxation previously disputed had
to be paid, reserves were altogether drawn
on for £5612 during the term, reducing the
already slender support to a mere £5979.
The board’s generosity was prompted by
signs of improvement in the co.’s trade in
the principal centres.
This improvement, though by no means
general in the hardware trade, seems to have
been definite enough. Balance-sheet figures
show these movements :
1924. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Liabilities .. £153,765 £135,437 £138,426 £137,038
Premises,
Plant, etc. . . 143,797 125.994 126,140 127,254
Stock .. 193,601 209,552 209,392 198,037
Book debts.. 45,959 44,377 38,907 50,809
Cash, etc. .. 2,931 3,561 J,611 1,341
Stocks (£198,037) show a welcome reduc-
tion of £11,355, and book debts at £50.509
are £11,902 greater than the previous year's
figure and are higher than at any time since
1921. The reduction in stocks is particu-
larly gratifying in view of the opening of a
new branch at Fremantle in August last.
This step was taken owing to the movement
of a good deal of shipping to the West. No
returns could be looked for up to December,
but the branch is expected to assist future
earnings. Prospects are brighter than they
have been for some time, the report says,
and further progress is anticipated during
the current year.
The co.’s troubles were greatly added to
by the last and ill-judged bonus issue in


Tungstone the Only Car Battery in the World with Four Years Guarantee
WORLDS RECORDS
(.r Exceptional Plate Storage «Long Life
e
TESTS MADE at the BRITISH GOVERNMENT’S TESTING STATION
Only Four Hours on Car or Bench to Complete Works First Partial Charge
è
Only “ Pure Lead ” Plate Portable Car or Wireless Battery in the World
• EXCEPTIONAL STORAGE CAPACITY IN SMALL SPACE BECAUSE PURE LEAD IS THE ONLY METAL
THAT WILL PERFECTLY, RELIABLY AND EFFICIENTLY GENERATE AND STORE ELECTRICITY
CHEMICALLY CONVERTED—THE BASIC WORKING PRINCIPLE OF ANY MAKE OF ACCUMULATOR
TUNGSTONE Slogan The PLATENERVE CENTRE <* ANY BATTERY
TUNGSTONE The Only Battery in the World that reveals to the User. “ THE NERVE CENTRE." Invitation to the " Doubting Thomases?
ONLY PURE LEAD PLATES in the World High-Pressure Machine Die-Cast and Pasted by Automatic Machinery
Tungstone’s Unequivocal Statement and Challenge
TUNGSTONE’S Extraordinary and Revolutionary Claims for Plate Endurance, Paste Adhesion, Mechanical Strength, Reliability, Durability,
Storage Capacity are daily conclusively proved by Working Demonstrations on a 54 Plate Portable Car Battery fitted with measuring and
recording instruments. The Battery up-to-date has been dead Short-circuited 123 times across main terminals was also daily used for
Light and Self-Starting a 23-30 H.P. Engine. This Car demonstrated daily in London.
WAT*
•3>Ny.wdtf
unlock
first
r.emCfiC
then
thW ******
stm
vfa
w
■ '■■ ■■' ■•'■■
it
Uit
lid
ce
from
ittal
term
jy''■'■■■ A
m i m
mm
,v-
-mSSmWy
j^ra^fr„ £
Lift out
bodily F
9 platen ' .
with n
-' ;>
Spacer*
«
Tungstone Pure Lead Plates,— World’s Highest
Record for Amp. and Watt Hour Efficiency. (British
Government's Official Test Certificate on Application).
Tungstone Machine Pasted Plates. —Exceptionally
Thick, Strong, Unique Construction. Machine Pasted.
No Treeing of Negatives.
Tungstone High-Pressure Machine Die-Cast
Plates. —Cannot in Service be Buckled, Short-cicuited
or Distorted.
Tungstone’s Thicker and Stronger Plates. —Paste
does not drop out of Plate. No Space provided in
Cells. No Wood Separators required or used to hold
in the Paste.
Tungstone’s Pure Lead Interchangeable Plates. —
No Permanent Sulphation—The deadly disease that
permanently attacks and eventually destroys all
Batteries except Tungstone.
Tungstone’s Standardised Plates. Negligible
Internal Resistance. World’s Records for Big Starter
Kicks, Quicker Charges and Discharges.
Tungstone’s Accessible and Removable Plates. —
Only Maker in the World to test the Pasting by twice
passing Plates through Vertical and Horizontal
Jogging Machines.
Tungstone Machine Pasted Plates. Cannot be
Damaged or Broken Down in Tropical Climates by
Continuous High Charging.
Tungstone Pure Lead Plates. —Exceptionally Low
Air and Acid Temperatures in Cell certified by
British Government Tests.
Tungstone Kigh-Pressure Machine Die-Cast
Plates. —Strongly recommended to be Charged by
Car Dynamo at Continuous High Rates.
Tungstone’s Thicker and Stronger Plates. —Ideal
for Constant Potential Dynamo Charging. No
Overheating of Plates or Electrolyte.
Tungstone’s Interchangeable Plates. —At Works
Without Extra Cost to the Purchaser are Fully
Formed and First Partially Charged.
Tungstone’s Standardised Plates. —Works First
Partial Charge Completed in only FOUR
CONTINUOUS HOURS on Car or Bench.
Tungstone’s Accessible and Removable Plates.—
On First Charge cannot be damaged. Life Not
Shortened or Capacity Lost.
Tungstone New Plate Sections.— Readyfor Immediate
Use. Spare Plate Sections Dry Charged can be
Stored for unlimited Period in any Climate.
Tungstone New Plate Sections.— lnterchangeable
for Re-plating any Cell without removing Battery from
Vehicle. Can be First Charged on Car. Can be
Re-plated in a few minutes.
Lift off
ridlft*
*, left
Spacers::
t Plates
t separated
by an
outward am
lifting
motion.
iSF WM
6
m
Tungstone the Only Car Battery in the World with “Independent Triple” Insulation Of each Plate and 2 Volt Metal Cell is separately fixed and Insulated.
Above SIX movements conclusively prove that TUNGSTONE Car Battery is NOT a “ Seal d up Mystery ” to be solved only by the Maker at tae Owners
expense. TUNGSTONE’S Accessibility “Opens the Door” for anyone to learn how and why TUNGSTONE gives to the owi er-user absolute Security and
Reliable Service with Freedom from Excessive Repair costs, and Vexatious delays.
Re-plating by New Plate Sections reliably renews the Storage Capacity to the Original Standard of a New Battery. Time and Money Saved.
Either Section can be Independently Re-plated at different periods, as and when each Plate Section completes its Fuller Life.
THE FIXED PRICE FOR NEW PLATE SECTIONS IS THE ONLY REPAIR COST. RE-PLATED BY ANYONE WITH THE TWO SPANNERS SUPPLIED FREE.
Tungstone is the Only Car Battery in the World with Positive Plates completely separated from the Negative. Each Plate Section has a separate
existence and Distinct Working Life. The Longer Life of the Tungstone Negative will NOT Earlier terminate the Life of the Positive.
All other Makers Plates are in Monoblock Sections , therefore, must simultaneously and always Earlier destroy each other.
Tungstone Re-plating of one or more Cells, as required, compares with the economical usual practice of Re-plating a House Lighting Battery*
WHEN RE-PLATING YOUR HOUSE-LIGHTING BATTERY SPECIFY TUNGSTONE HIGH-PRESSURE MACHINE DIE-CAST PLATES
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET FROM LOCAL GARAGES AND ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR OR SENT POST FREE.
SYDNEY: A. J. Dawson, M.1.A.E., Sales and Service, 91 William Street (Tel., FL2084).
BRISBANE: Brisbane Cars and Tractors, Ltd., Wickham Street.
MELBOURNE: Hocking & Hadden Pty., Ltd., 208 Latrobe Street.
C.T.P. 43.


MAY’S BROADCAST FERTILISER SPREADER
<tWfi
To Farmers and Graziers
The season is now approaching for
top-dressing your lands, and here
is the Ideal Machine for the job.
Spreads up to 40ft. 50-100 acres
per day.
SIMPLE—CHEAP—EFFECTIVE.
PRICE: £2l net f.o.r. Sydney.
For use with Spring Cart.
£2 extra for Motor-lorry attachments.
Call and Inspect. AGENTS WANTED.
AGENTS:
GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney.
Are Your Invest-
ments ROCKY?
MORE THAN HALF
OF ALL REGISTERED
COMPANIES FAIL.
<r
ONLY THE EXPERT
CAN READ THE SIGNS
Australia’s leading ex-
pert is
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
APRIL NUMBER NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or ' Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
“Pioneer” Wood Pipe may be specified and used on
practically any fluid-conveying scheme, with absolute
confidence in its ability to give far greater trouble-
free service than metal pipe. Many important instal-
lations in Australia prove the permanency and
great efficiency of Pioneer Wood Pipe. It is abso-
lutely non-corrosive, costs less to buy, freight and
lay, and is practically everlasting. Write for
illustrated book to The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane
Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footserav, Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
W. Soren Jensen, Mining Engineer, Assoc. 1.M.M.,
London, M.A.1.M.E., A.C.T.S.M., etc., 33 Boyle
Street, Cremarne, Sydney. Box 220 D., G.P.0.,
Sydney. ’Phone, BWIIO6.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting!
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Com.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
Tho Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Celatine Dvnamlte
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
ADFIELDS
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS —DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadfields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and
Foundries
( Alexandria, Svdney, K.S.W.
i Bassendean. Perth. W.A.
Branch (
Office J
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
T. 4: G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
19w0, when seven £1 shares were handed
out for every four held. It was a period of
hectic conditions, and prospects looked so
r « S x< - ia \A goo<^ wa ? &* ven a book value
of ibo.OOO, and practically everythin? else
was written up. That the whole thing had
been overdone soon became obvious when
hardware prices began to plunge downward,
and in 1923 3s. per share was struck off.
It T as n °t enou »h, and in 1925 another cut
of 4s. 6d. per share was made, £12,000 was
reserved for bad debts and contingencies and
goodwill was written out of the accounts.
The market looks at the heavy outside debt
and the high figure at which stocks appear
in the sheet, and pays only ss. 9d. for the
12s. 6d. shares. A year ago 4s. 9d. was
paid. The return at the current figure is
9.4 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis, while the
backing amounts to 12s. lOd. per share,
mostly in mei’chandise stocks.
Emu Bay Railway Co.
Deben- Deficit
Ordinary ture Capi- (Goodwill
and Pre- tal and Items not
ferential Accrued Loss on Divi- Reckoned
Dec., Capital. Interest. Business, dends. Assets).
1918.. 295,000 2,718 Nil)
Renewals written off, £10,750.. f 1Z0.415
1919.. 295 000 244,212 7,785 Nil l
Renewals written off, £10,000.. j loo.zuo
Profit.
1920.. 295,000 200,203 887 Nil)
Renewals written off, £8900..)
Loss.
1921.. 295,000 271,357 12,781 Nil 158,994
1922.. 295,000 282.815 10,703 Nil 109.097
1923.. 295,000 293.093 10,849 Nil 180,540
Asset reinstatement £2540 .. 178,000
Capital written down, £78,000 .. 100,000
Profit.
1924.. 300,571 397,904 11,310 Nil 99.921
1925.. 300.571 397,574 11,150 Nil 99,990
1920.. 300,571 397.574 13,508 Nil 99,985
1927.. 300,571 397,574 12,885 Nil 99.990
1928.. 300,571 397,574 12,883 Nil 99,997
The investor’s eye is not likely to linger long
on the figures in that table. The last three
years are the best since the co. took a 99-
years’ lease of the Emu Bay and Mt. Bis-
choff Co.’s Burnic-Waratah line and con-
nected it with the Tas. west coast just as
the Nineteenth Century was dying. They were
the days of the mining boom at Zeehan ; but
very soon refractory ores came in and the
tide ran out. Thus deprived of its chief
source of income, the haulage of metals, the
co. has limped along struggling to pay work-
ing exes, and interest on its debenture debt.
What a sick business it has been may be
judged from the fact that last year’s £12,883
of profit was only 1.8 p.c. on the total share
and debenture capital now on the books —
£698,145. The latter figure, by the way, still
includes a loading of £lOO,OOO taken hy the
promoters for rights and concessions.
For many depressing years prior to
1924 insufficient was earned to pay interest
and rent. The position was then tidied up,
in a way, by the issue of irredeemable de-
bentures; £266,674 5 p.c. stock replaced the
co.’s own debentures and interest arrears,
and £130,900 4$ p.c. stock was handed to
debenture holders in the Emu Bay-Mt. Bis-
ehoff Co. in place of the lease, which car-
ried a rental of £lO,OOO p.a. To balance the
accounts 6s. per share was lopped off the
ords., reducing them to 9s. each.
The position at the close of last accounts
compared with what it was five years earlier
is seen in these figures:—
1923. 1928.
Debentures £ 172,00 0£ 3 9 7,5 74
Pref. capital 100,000 183,571
Ordinary capital .. .. .. 195,000 117,000
Deferred rent and interest .. 41,100
Deferred debenture interest . . 55,964
Interest and unpresented coupons 2,487 10,052
Funded div. certificates and
interest .. .. .. .. 22;1t2
Arrears of pref. divs. .. .. 40,000
Sundry creditors .. .. .. 2,571 6,734
Accumulated losses .. .. 80,545
After attending to the 44 p.c. debentures
only enough of last year’s profit remained
to give the 5 p.c. debs. 2§ p.c. compared with
2§, 2J, 2 and 2 p.c. back to 1924: Thus has
the struggle continued since the last funding
and writing down. The prefs.—-there are
61,500 7 per cents, and 122,071 6 per cents.
—are non cumulative, and have not had a
dividend since before the war. As for the
ords. something very extraordinary will have
to happen before they are likely to get any-
thing worth mentioning in the way of divi-
dends. Still, the market recently valued
them at 2s. each, and paid 4s. for the 6 p.c.
prefs.
Rumors of the possibility of the Electro-
lytic Zinc Co. becoming interested in the rail-
way have been mainly responsible for the
purchases. Having overcome the difficulties
of profitably treating the complex ores of
the Reid-Rosebery field, Electrolytic is now
busy opening up deposits there for produc-
tion on a large scale. But since the ores
are to be treated on the spot—erection of
the concentrating mill at Rosebery is well
on the way—there will be much less traffic
to Zeehan than was, perhaps, originally
hoped for. When the mill begins work the
railway co.’s earnings can be expected to
benefit, but to w r hat extent, if at all, the ords.
would be likely to get into the picture re-
mains to be seen. Thus far nothing definite
has been made public concerning the
despatch of concentrates from Rosebery.
Apart from the debentures current liabili-
ties at Dec. 31 amounted to £16,756, and
there was £28,0G4 in cash and book debts
to meet them. The railway, including the
goodwill item, figured at £672,721; stores,
etc., £17,252; odds and ends, £384. The
fixed assets are reported in good condition.
Roto-Color Gravure Corp.
This is a Sydney float to take over the
plant of the Natural Color Printing Co., and
the sole agency for Australia of the Koenig
and Bauer Roto-Gravure five-color intaglio
printing presses, and to set up in the multi-
color printing business here. Nominal capi-
tal is £250,000 in £1 shares, of which 35.000
ords. and 15,000 prefs. are offered. The
latter carry a cumulative 7$ p.c., advance
with the ords. to 10 p.c. and have priority
as to capital.
The vendors take £lOOO in cash for the
Natural Color Co.’s plant, no details or
valuation of which are given; £lO,OOO in
paids for the agency, etc., which has a cur-
rency of 21 years, subject to minimum pur-
chases, particulars of which are not set out
in the prospectus; and 25 p.c. of the con-
sideration, in either cash or shares, for the
sale of agency rights to subsidiaries. The
cost of installing one of these five-color print-
ing machines, together with the necessary
etching plant, etc., is put at £25,000; thus
the promoters aim at £24.000 for working
capital and to cover preliminary exes.,
brokerage, etc.
On an estimated revenue of £O5 000 the
prospectus figures a net profit of £15,000 for
the first year, equal to 25 p.c. on a paid
capital of £60.000. Later it is proposed to
establish subsidiaries in other States. In
addition to job printing, etc., the co. will
carry on the business of advertising agents
and newspaper proprietors, though nr eisfly
what class of publication it is proposed to
turn out is not specified. Although compe-
tition in the printing business is very keen,
multi-color work is as yet only in its infancy
in Australia; also the new machine is ex-
pected to reduce costs.
On the board are J. F. Rofe, solicitor
(“the control of the co. will be in the hands
of Mr. J. F. Rofe”), Percy Merchant (who
is to “supervise the detailed management”)
and W. W. McLellan.
Photomaton, Ltd.
Photomaton, Ltd., is the co. which recently
bought from Photomaton Parent Corpora-
tion, Ltd., of London, the Australian rights
in an automatic photographic device which
takes six photos on a strip in 15 seconds
and develops them in six minutes for Is. 6d.
What was paid for the rights has not been
announced; but this Australian co. has an
issued capital of £lOO,OOO in ss. shares,
wlrch are shortly to be listed.
Based on the experience of the parent co.,
whose ss. shares recently sold at 15s. 6d ,
the promoters figure a net profit of £77,000
p.a. from 40 machines, averaging 200 strips
each per day. It is estimated that about
107 machines can be profitably placed in
the Commonwealth. In addition to operating
machines of its own, the co. will sell others
on a royalty basis, and reserves the right
to supply all materials and to execute en-
largements. Already one big Sydney retailer
has installed one of these machines for
advertising purposes.
Although the co. produces cheap photos,
which, for a while at any rate, will almost
for certain catch the public fancy, what the
investor needs to consider is whether the
public fancy will stay caught.
A premium of 2s. 6d. has already been
paid for the ss. shares.
Nobody knows for certain what started
almost a stampede in Queensland oil shares
one day last week; but soon a rumor was
whizzing around that bedrock granite had
been met in Roma Corporation’s No. 2 bore,
and nothing said about it. What is known
to have happened is that water poured in,
and a second cement plug had to be used
to shut off these bottom waters; and mean-
time the gas and oil strata were flooded.
To some extent they still are. Ball, Gov-
ernment Geologist,, is on the field, and may
have something to say about these opera-
tions. Anyway, bedrock granite in No. 2
wouldn’t by any means end the hunt. There
is deeper ground than that.
* # * *
Johnny Mullan, Queensland Attorney-
General, officially opened the railway to Isa
last week. Which is interesting, but not so
important as that the first shipments of
machinery have been unloaded at the Isa
siding.
* * * *
Russo-Asiatic, which is financing Mt. Isa,
has received proposals from several groups
to purchase part of the reserve capital. No-
thing definite has been arrived at yet, and
meantime the directors of Russo-Asiatic are
increasing their own capital. It is also said
that an arrangement has been made with
the Russian Government- for the return of
the co.’s confiscated properties, on which it
some time ago set a value of £3,000,000.
* * * *
Broken H'ill still refuses to take Isa (Q.)
official figures as to production and costs
seriously. Isa figures on winning its car-
bonates for 2s. and its sulphides for 55.; it
thinks 100 tons can be broken per miner per
shift. On the average figures for the North
and the South the mining cost, including
development, at Broken Hill is about 265.
per ton; and the average quantity broken
per man per shift is under 20 tons.
* * * *
Broken Hill got more out of the light
rains it had than it expected. The water-
shed of the creeks feeding the two reser-
voirs were better favored than most of the
district, and between them Stephens Creek
and Umberumberka can keep the field going
until the end of the winter, at any rate.
And it will be shockingly bad luck if falls
are not registered before then.
* * * *
Vic. Mines Department has announced
that it expects bedrock at 700 ft. in No. 4
bore 10 miles from Lakes Entrance. People
interested in oil cannot understand why the
department has gone to the expense of drill-
ing a hole alongside the granite and por-
phyries which are exposed on the surface.
The information given can only confirm the
logs of the three holes already drilled; it
would have been better if the department
had gone 12 to 15 miles west, where It is
probable that the marine tertiaries will go
down to greater depths than at Lakes
Entrance.
* * * *
Westralian Chamber of Mines hail its
annual roll-up the other day, and proceed-
ings were more cheerful than they have
been of recent years. Dick Hamilton, who
has been president as long as The Bulletin
can remember, and who was again re-elected,
declared there was good reason to believe
that the decline of the Westralian gold yield
would be arrested during the current year,
and that next would probably snow an
increase in total treatment of ore and pro-
duction. These hopeful anticipations are
based mainly on the report of Dr. Stilwell
and the prospect of extensive development at
Kalgoorlie, and on the Wiluna field reaching
the producing stage.
* * * >?
A. H. Collier, chairman of the amalga-
mated Lake View and Golden Horseshoe, pre-
dicts a big output from those mines within
the next two years. Heavy expenditure on
development and on increasing the capacity
of the Lake View treatment plant must first
be incurred ; after that 30,000 tons are ex-
pected to be handled monthly. Should good
developments in the Chaffers block continue
and further exploration in the Horseshoe
come up to expectations, the future should
be right. Meanwhile Chaffers’ new shaft is
being rushed down. This will enable the
co. to develop its amalgamated holding from
two points—the Chaffers and the Ivanhoe.
* * * *
On behalf of Wiluna, H. E. Vail bitterly
complains of the unsympathetic attitude of
the Federal Government towards the West-
ralian mining industry in general and his
show in particular. He says they are im-
porting £200,000 worth of plant “which can-
not be made in Australia,” and are anxious
to have it admitted duty free or be given a
substantial rebate on the present tariff.
Despite the recommendation of the Develop-
ment and Migration Commission that new
machinery for mines which could not be
manufactured in the Commonwealth should
be admitted free, the Bruce Government has
so far declined to make any concession.
* * * *
Golden Horseshoe Co., in view of its aged
plant and the condition of its mine, is reck-
oned to have made a satisfactory deal by
amalgamating with Lake View. Horseshoe
receives 900,000 paid 4s. shares in Lake
View (now quoted at over, 11s.), over
£lOO,OOO in cash (when all the preferred ordi-
nary shares are issued), and will retain its
tailings dumps, which are estimated to con-
tain over two million tons of residues of
an average assay value of 7s. lOd. a ton. A
plant with a capacity of 40,000 tons a month
is to be erected to treat the residues.
* * * *
Greenbushes tinfield (W.A.) is in a bad
way. Realising that its condition was serious,
the State Government put down about a
dozen bores, but the State Mining Engineer
says there is little encouragement to con-
tinue. Greenbushes’ production spread over
a number of years was worth about a mil-
lion.
* * * *
Wiluna, known as Gwalia Consolidated in
the days when the difficulty of treating the
huge ore-body caused the closing-down of
the mine, owes its resurrection to S’African
money. Endeavors to finance the new pro-
position failed until the Transvaal Agency,
whose senior partner, F. H. Hamilton,
now chairman of Wiluna, came in. The
Agency was joined by Consolidated Gold
Fields of S’Africa. and the Wiluna Gold
Corporation was floated with a million
pounds capital. It was seen that the only
way to make the proposition pay was to
work the ore deposits on the grand scale on
the lines employed with such success on the
Rand. The old co. sent GOO,OOO tons of ore
over the plates for an average return ot
half an ounce. The new co. will treat the
ore by flotation, and manager Prior, who
has been in charge since the. of last
year, is confident of great results. So is the
W.A. Government, which is building a line
from Meekatliarra to the mine and deepen-
ing and improving the co.’s port at Gerald-
ton.
* * * *
Ratrut Basin, which has got its £70,000
debenture issue safely off its chest, has re-
ported that dredge No. 2, a new plant, has
completed a satisfactory trial run, and will
shortly be producing. The old dredge, trans-
ferred to Sichon from the original Renong
property, still seems to be in difficulties with
unexpectedly heavy ground, and the turn-
over continues on the small side, while
the average, well over a pound to the yard
hitherto, dropped to .BGlb. for the 15,000
yards dealt with last month.


PHOTOMATON LIMITED
(.REGISTERED IN THE STATE OF VICTORIA.)
The following statement is issued (in view of the early listing of the
shares on the Stock Exchanges throughout Australia) for public
information, and is not a prospectus, an abridged prospectus, or state-
ment in lieu of prospectus, all shares having been privately subscribed.
CAPITAL.
£lOO,OOO in 400,000 Shares of five shillings each, all
of which are issued.
The Company was registered in the State of Victoria on December 6,
1928, to acquire from Photomaton Parent Corporation, Limited, of
London, the sole rights to Photomaton throughout the Commonwealth
of Australia.
DESCRIPTION.
Photomaton is a new method of photography through the medium of an automatic machine. Upon
the sitter taking up his or her position in the cabinet and inserting a token in the slot, the machine
in 15 seconds automatically takes six portraits in six different positions, and automatically develops
and delivers them in six minutes. The photographs are permanent and perfect in quality and are
delivered in strips of six.
ENLARGEMENTS.
The clear definition of the original strip of photographs due to the fineness of the camera lens
makes it possible to obtnin perfect enlargements. These are sold at low nnd popular prices, and
experience in Great Britain and Europe shows that the profits made in this way are equal to, and in
some cases greater than, the profits made on the original photograph strips.
THE PHOTOMATON ELSEWHERE.
Although the Photomaton machine as at present perfected is little more than a year old, the
extremely rapid developments in 'its exploitation are indicated by the following figures.
Photomaton Parent Corporation, Limited, was incorporated in London in April, 1928, with a
nominal capital of £1,800,000 in 7,200,000 shares of 5/- each. A recent quotation on the London
Stock Exchange for these shares was 15/6. A subsidiary to the Parent Corporation, known as the
Far Eastern Photomaton Corporation, Limited, has since been incorporated, an issue of £400,000 —
6 per cent, debentures being guaranteed by Parent Company. So popular has the new method of
Photography proved with the general public that all the principal retail stores throughout the Kingdom
have installed one or more machines for the purpose of attracting customers. The firm of Selfridges
alone has installed over 20 machines in its various provincial branches. The Drapery Trust, Ltd., Iras
also installed machines throughout its brandies. The Anns operating the machines make a considerable
profit from the sale of strips and enlargements in addition to securing an advertising medium of
great value.
GENERAL PROGRAMME.
The policy of Photoinaton, Ltd., is to operate and, under certain conditions, to dispose of the machines
throughout the Commonwealth of Australia, The machines will be sold subject to a royalty to be paid
to the Company on each strip turned out by the machine. The Company will also reserve the right
to supply all materials and to execute all enlargements.
The Company will have four main sources of revenue:—-
(1) The capital profit on the sale of machines.
(2) The revenue derived from machines sold subject to a royalty on each strip turned out.
(3) The earnings of machines operated by the Company.
(4) The sale of enlargements.
There are other minor sources of revenue that can be exploited, such as the sale of small folders to
hold the original photos, vanity cases, etc., all of which have proved popular and profitable in London.
Leading London Newspapers have conducted competitions, offering prizes for the best set of
Photomaton photos submitted by readers. These competitions afforded an outstanding advertisement
for the machines and attracted an immense amount of custom. The London Daily Mirror distributed
over £4OOO in this manner in its campaigns for increased circulation. Leading Sydney newspapers are
already arranging competitions on similar lines.
Photoinaton, Limited, will derive considerable profits and revenue from the sale of its rights, which
extend throughout all the States.
PROFITS FROM STRIPS.
From investigations made in London and from the evidence of the takings of machines which have
been in operation for some time, it is calculated that the average output per machine will be 75,000
strips per annum or 250 strips per day over 300 days. Costs are calculated from the working costs
demonstrated in England, making ample allowance for the higher cost in Australia of materials and
wages and on a basis which allows for the capital cost of the machine being written off within two
years. The cost per strip for a machine operated by the Company is estimated as follows:
Cost of Sensitised Strips and Developing Solutions .. .. .. 2d.
Salaries of Attendants .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 2d.
Royalty to London .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. Jd
Depreciation .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 3d.
Rent, Power and Sundries .. .. .. .... .. .. 3d.
Advertising, Management and Overhead Expenses .. .. .. .. 2d.
12Ju
The selling price of the strips is 1/6 —leaving a net profit of s}d. per strip, or £1640/12/3 per
machine from 75,000 strips per annum if operated by the Company.
Twenty machines have already been purchased and the first six machines—three of which have
been sold outright—have arrived and been installed in Sydney, on a basis which shows a net average
return of sd. per strip. Taking this figure gs a conservative average, the net profit per machine from
strips alone is £1562/10/- per annum.
The cost of advertising and overhead expenses, given above at 2d. per strip, will be reduced to
below Id. as the number of machines in operation increases.
That the above estimate of sales of strips is most conservative is conclusively demonstrated by
the fact that the results from machines already installed in Sydney show an average of approximately
500 strips per day.
ENLARGEMENTS.
The enlargements of the original strips are produced in two sizes, namely. Cabinet and Boudoir, and
are sold at 24/- and 45/- per dozen respectively. These have proved immensely popular both on the
Continent of Europe and in Great Britain, where the net profit from this source is equal to that
made from the strips. Taking a conservative figure of only 5 per cent, of customers placing enlargement
orders to the average value of 12/-, the sales would be
3750 x 12/- = £2250 per machine.
On machines operated by the Company the profit would be 47} per cent, of this amount, or £lO6B/15/-
per annum. On machines sold outright the Company’s profit is 27} per cent, or £6lB/15/- per machine
per annum. Assuming that 50 per cent, of machines are sold outright and the remainder operated by
the Company, the average profits from enlargements would be £843/15/- per machine.
The profit from the two sources described above is £2406/5/- per machine per annum. A
complete 12 months’ operation of one machine in New York was found to be 89000 ( £1800) profit
from strips alone. In England the average weekly receipts from strips taken by 29 machines was £9O
per machine per week, or £4680 per machine per annum, of which approximately 50 per cent, represented
profit. In both these cases the selling price of the strips is 1/- instead of 1/6. The Australian estimate
of £2406/15/- per machine per annum from both sources thus appears conservative.
The Parent Company in London estimates that 750 machines can be profitably operated throughout
Great Britain. With a population of approximately one-seventh of that total, the Commonwealth of
Australia, the people of which have a relatively higher spending power, should absorb 107 machines.
On more conservative estimates of machines operating throughout Australia, the comparative annual
profits should thus be as follows, assuming varying numbers of machines from 40 to 80 and an output
of 200, 250, 300 strips per day per machine:—
Machines.
40 .
50 .
60 .
70 .
80 .
200 Strips per Day.
£77,000
96,250
115,500
134,750
154,000
250 Strips per Day.
£96,250
120,312
144,375
168,437/10/-
192,500
300 Strips per Day.
£115,500
144,375
173,250
202,125
231,000
in addition to which the capital cost of the machines is wholly redeemed within two years.
As this Company holds the sole rights to Photomaton machines throughout all the States in t
Commonwealth it is possible that subsidiary companies may be formed to handle the business outsi
New South Wales. In this event the Company will receive a cash consideration for its rights to°-etl
with a share interest in the subsidiary companies and a royalty on strips and enlargements soli”
Arrangements have already been completed for the installation of machines "in Melbourne a
Adelaide, and these machines would be taken over by any subsidiary companies formed in Victo
and/or bouth Australia.
DIRECTORS:
The Directors of the Company are:
OTTO CAMPHIN (Chairman), 16A Imperial Arcade, Sydney.
ARTHUR VICKERY, 4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
WILLIAM ALOYSIUS ANDERSON, 323 New South Head Road, Edgecliff, Sydney.
CLARENCE EDWARDS, Managing Director David Jones, Ltd., Sydney.
SECRETARIES:
ROBERTSON, CRANE & GIBBONS, Chartered Accountants (Aust.), 117 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
BROKERS:
G. MACDOUGALL & CO., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney
m
m
*
kP
*
&
N
k 3
-v
3*
r
*m.
%
«*.
* -
*
ill I*! 1
Il»
For those who
seek a better
Vacation
THE Hotel Ranelagh,
Robertson 2300
feet altitude —is the
premier Country Hotel of
the Commonwealth.
Golf is a delight on the
sporting links.
You’ll remember every
set of Tennis on the
Ranelagh Courts —which
overlook the blue Pacific.
Sportsmen find in the
duck on the Wingecarribee,
in the rabbits, hares, quail
and plover, and in the
perch or bass of the
mountain streams —plenty
to occupy gun and rod.
Hacks await the orders
of those who would canter
through the bracing air to
the many points of scenic
interest.
And when the long day
out of doors is over, the
beautiful ballroom, with
its strains of lovely melody,
awaits y0u.... the billiard
tables in clubby atmo-
sphere. . . .the card tables
in the luxurious lounges
.. . .huge old-world log
fires, call you.
Wonderful bedrooms,
spacious dining-rooms, and
perfect cuisine are the most
alluring features of The
Ranelagh, which is under
the management of Mr.
Gaston M. Lievain, late of
Paris House.
t 5 Mile s Bast of Moss Vais.
HOTEL RANELAGH
ROBERTSON, N.S.W.
Winter Tariff as from, Ist May to
30tli August inclusive, from £l/1/-
per day; from £5/10/- weekly.
Illustrated Brochure from Sydney
Booking Office, 8 .4 Pitt Street .
’Phone: 81022.


MATCHLESS AI^OMA
m
m
m.
w
*-a
Ss V
:(IM
n>
yjrtonihs of research abroad; working
and invefligating wherever difliding
was done ; rejecting commonplace prac-
tice; accepting only the bell frSm all
known methods; improving on old
formula by the use of modern apparatus
. . . . thus our chcmifl produced in
Crystal Court not only
first, but the World’s finest dry gin.
AN aroma apart .. . individual, enticing, aristocratic. Ihe outcome
of a distilling method won from world-wide research, the aroma
of Crystal Court Dry Gin is allied with its matchless purity and
clarity —an alliance which has won for it the title of ' Australia’s First
and the World’s Finest Dry Gin.”
As a medicinal spirit Crystal Court is pre-eminent . . . because it’s pure.
As a bracing tonic it is the favorite of all men . . . because it's pure.
As the basis of any mixed drink it is hailed by connoisseurs . * became
it's pure.
(Crystal Court Dry Gin is obtainable at all Hotel Bars,
Bottle Departments and Licensed Stores.
Many valuable recipes for cocktails and other pleasing drinks are contained in our little
booklet, "Here’s How." Ask for a free copy when next you order Crystal Court Gin,
or write direct to Federal Distilleries Pty. Ltd., Port Melbourne.
DRY GIN
QUADRUPLE DISTILLED FOR PURITY'S SAKE


PEAPES
i
clothe men AND their sons. |
i;
Write for a copy of Peapes’ i!
new Winter catalogue, a guide ij
to all that is newest and best in j
exclusive styles for cold weather. : :
QUALITY, VALUE and i!
SERVICE. j!
■j
George Street, |i
Opp. Hunter Street, j
Sydney.
3^
THE GREYS
SIZEnTWO
vi
SILK CUT VIRGINIA
DRAP
LONDON
EYS
10) for <j)dU CIGARETTES for !/(&>
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. "Greys”
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
"Greys" protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a GREYS.
•Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights”
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
52MacleaySt
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT
(Located within the City Boundary, seven
minutes from G.P.0 .)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 150 Rooms, is now open and
features Two-, Three- and Four-
room Suites, each with Bath; also
Single and Double Rooms. Central
Heating, Running Water and
’Phones installed in each room.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views.
Weekly inclusive tariff,
from £5/5/-
Daily, from £1
Telephone: F 2 161 (8 lines) ; Tele-
graphic address: "Fifmac, * Syd-
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
ê
COULDN’T ESCAPE ’EM.
YOUNG MATRO N (and very proud of it, to Billy Longwood just back from Europe):
“And how did you find the hotels in London?”
BILLY : “Easy But, sh-sh-sh! Not a word to dad—the darned things seemed just
to follow me round.”
“Thomas Pepper”: Seeing that he went
to the trouble of herring-boning his way up
th snow . covered B i opes 0 f Koscuisko on
... , , * . . .. . , .
S his in order to get information for las
enthral ling brochure on the toby-bug. it’s a
b'ty that Top Oft didn t have a better
sca n title equipment for his task. As one
' vho r « ars aad loves little toby-bugs, and
has wild tulips growing 111 las bug-house, I
n ,ay bc allowed to supply a few corrections.
ALL DOUBT'S REMOVED.
THE BOSS: “Smoke cigars, Tompkins?”
TOMPKINS: “Yes, sir. I'm very partial to a good cigar."
THE BOSS: “Umph—then I’ll lock ’em up.”
To commence with, the toby-bug ( Tobias
ft/yradora) docs not eat the wild tulip
(Bulbil dementia) ; the tulip eats the bug.
Further, the toby-bug is not a vegetarian;
it lives upon the mountain flea ( llopii
seratchemoffia) and snow ants ( Injamii per-
veiuum). Exactitude in these minor points
of theology and entomology are necessary in
c page eagerly scanned by the world’s
dentists.
* * * *
“Isaak”: Anyone seen a porpoise surfing?
Not long ago while on
the Ninety-Mile Beach
(Vic.) I- was treated
to a rare exhibition.
Two porp s. came
shorewards on roller
after roller. The fore-
part of their bodies
cut through on the
forward slope of the
waves, exactly in the
position that the surf-
board expert main-
tains ; and they turned
under and disappeared
just before the
waves broke. But
they reserved their
best turn for the
finish. Right in the
surf they both leapt
clear of the water,
turning in towards
each other, so that
their curving, black
bodies made a glisten-
ing arch. This was
evidently regarded by
them as the climax, for they immediately
headed for blue water and were not seen
again.
* * * *
“Nemo”: About 35 years ago on
Yorke’s Peninsula (S.A.) eaglehavvks, which
stretched their wings to Oft. or more, built
their huge nests in large trees. Hanging
around the base of these nests you would
find as many as four or five little ball-
shaped nests belonging to a very small bird
w r e called the tin-tack. The little nests were
completely enclosed but for a very small
round opening at the side. The eaglehawk
had only to reach over and help himself to
a very delicate meal, but preferred to live in
harmony with his colony of home-builders.
I can't say if their children continued to
live as amicably together.
* * * *
“Copabella”: One of the queerest dishes
ever set down even on the table of a Bush
mess was one in the presentation of which I
must plead partly guilty. The mess-cook
was eager to procure a change of menu that
would prove both tas.ty and economical. I,
as camp-butcher, recommended an ox-head,
on which (to those who know how to dis-
sect it) there is much tasty meat and extras.
The cook, who had graduated among the
flesh pots of the city, ordered the joint and
roasted it just as it arrived from me! The
effect of that colossal head, complete w r ith a
33-inch spread of horns, grinning from the
carver’s end of the long mess-table was
indescribable! And Cookie never lived it
down after the miners’ mess caught a glimpse
of it.
# * * *
“Frigid”: The Chinese in Cairns (N.Q.)
hold cricket fights. The crickets are fed on
rice, lettuce, beans and chopped fish, and
before a battle they are allowed to gorge
themselves with mosquitoes and human blood
to make them more ferocious. Before battle
the insects are weighed on delicate scales,
and matches are arranged between heavies,
light- and middle-weights. The arena is a
glass bowl or jar. The spectators get very
much excited as the fight progresses. The
owner of the victor receives a prize, and the
defeated insect, if dead, is solemnly buried
by his sorrowing owner.
* * * *
“Hayband”: I lately witnessed a dog-
fight that ended by one tyke shooting the
other dead. We were out rabbiting, and had
sat down on a log for a spell. A shotgun
leaned across it. A grown dog turned on
a mere puppy, which in a few seconds turned
tail and fled. As he leaped the log, with
the other close astern, he fouled the trigger
of the gun, and his pursuer got the full charge
and died without a kick. -The pup kept his
tail up for the best part of a week.
* * * *
“McA.”: Bunny was quite an early inhabi-
tant of N.S.W. A return of livestock made
about six months after the first settlement
had been formed on the shores of Port Jack-
son contains the following entries : 1 stal-
lion, 3 mares, 3 colts, 2 bulls, 5 cows, 29
sheep, 19 goats, 49 hogs, 25 pigs. 18 turkeys,
29 geese, 35 ducks, 142 fowls, 87 chickens
and 5 rabbits. Another of our pests also
receives very early mention. The First
Fleet halted at Rio de Janeiro for four weeks
to allow the scurvy cases to recover on a
diet of fresh meat and oranges. While at
this port Mr. Mason, the fleet botanist, took
on board many seeds and plants which he
thought likely to be of use in the new colony.
Included in the collection was prickly-pear.
(Continued on page 25.)
THE WOOLLYBUTT-TREE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A tryst for a year was the woollybutt-tree,
Where you have had many a spell;
To-night she may hear, as you feed by the
Bree,
And remember the sound of your bell;
Perhaps she’ll recall the love-vows that she
made
Five long years ago where we stand,
When I kissed her warm lips the last time
in its shade,
And you felt the soft pat of her hand.
Old horse, we have wandered and battled
since then,
Far north where the Gulf waters swirl,
And eastward and westward, by forest and
glen,
For the sake of a false little girl.
You needed no bridle o’er Billabong Bridge,
Nor a star through the timber to see,
O’er the Coolabah Flat and the Ironbark
Ridge,
On the way to the woollybutt-tree;
And you whinnied to her where its shadows
were cast,
On her shoulder you nestled your head
While we dreamed of a love that for ever
would last —
And that love is now faded and dead!
1 wonder, old horse, if you think of her still
And miss the caress of her hand?
If you feel that the camp is now lonely and
chill —
Yet I wot she’s forgotten your brand.
The magnet has gone from the woollybutt-
tree,
Though the grass to your taste is as sweet
As any greensward that you cropped by the
Bree
That was brushed by her light-tripping
feet.
But our way is afar where the cattlemen
go
To the place that’s called Never-come-
back;
And your night quarters hence will be
simply the glow
Of the camp-fire that burns by the track:
For the wild runs are calling where perils
are rife
Where never a woman was bred,
Ynd adventure-CMHi-danger’s the acme of
lff e
Since our woollybutt fairy is wed.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.
“Bill Bowyang”:
Old Cluney told Moo-
ë


r&i' .
m
(S
F.E.MYERS&3RC.
m m
mm
The Famous
MYERS
Self-oiling
BULL-DOZER
m
SS&’WSSiBSBi
PUMP-JACKS.
V*
m
mm
£
fri'iszi?
WORKING
HEADS.
SIPHON
PUMPS.
e
è
COG
GEAR
r'&zi
m,c
ELF OILING
tSIDENCE
Water system
PRESSURE SYSTEMS
Myers Pumps are
known all over the
world for their
thoroughness of design
and construction, and
for their outstanding
performance and long
life.
We are in a unique
position to supply any
Myers equipment at
the shortest notice, as
we have added to our
own extensive range
the complete stock of
Myers Pumps, Pump
Jacks, Working Heads,
etc., previously held by
Messrs. Keep, Mac-
pherson, Ltd.
WE HAVE ITT
V.*-
: V
-
,£ & 6*?o *«•
CAR WASHERS.
BARREL
SPRAYS.
é
SPRAY PUMPS.
ê
DANGAR.
GEDYE
& CO. LTD.
YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY
POST OFFICE BOX 509 AA


OeNYER
If so, follow the example of hundreds—
wear this light, sanitary and comfortable
Truss. Denvers’ Elastic Truss is the last
word in Rupture support—always com-
fortable, always effective. Helpful Rupture
pamphlet free on request.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
DENYER BROS.,
Dept. 1,
267 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Chains-Chains-Chains- Chains
Australian-made—better than Imported
Support Your Secondary Industries
Conveyor
Chains.
Non-skid, hand-forged chains for a Ford to a
7-ton truck.
Chains for Collieries.
Chains for Brickyards.
Pit-cage chains.
Lashing chains.
Messenger and Steering-wheel chains.
Sling, Snigging, Plough and leading chains.
Roller and Conveyor chains of all descriptions.
Mooring and Ships’ Cable chains.
Made from best Staffordshire iron.
The only complete chain works in the Common
wealth.
All chains tested to Lloyd’s standard and
certificates issued,
BLOOMERS CHAINS, LTD.,
BRISBANE.
ë
Build With
WUNDERLICH
Materials
Guard against faulty work
•obtain the highest value by in-
sisting on Wunderlich Building
Materials, which include:—
Art Metal Ceilings, Terra Cotta
Roofing Tiles, Asbestos Cement
Building Sheets.
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
“Trion”: The cartoon in the Easter Bul-
letin showing a perplexed Noah wondering
where he put “those two ladybirds” started
the religious boarder at our place looking
up authorities. He
declared there were
more ►. th a n two
ladybirds in the
Ark, quoting as his
authority Genesis
vii, 2: “Of every
clean beast thou
sha 11 take t o
thee by sevens,
the male and his
DIFFERENT ALTOGETHER!
“Has Sydney changed much since you went down last time?”
“Struth, yes! They’ve got all new cowbails at th’ Showground.”
female; and of beasts that are not clean
by two, the male and his female.” There
was argument, of course, whether the lady-
bird is clean or otherwise. Bill settled it.
“O’ course, she’s clean,” he said. "Ain’t
she a lady?”
* * * *
“Up North”: The Sepik River district
(Mandated Territory) is a gloomy country
of “sac-cac” swamps, extending for many
miles along both banks of the great river.
Recently, floods made the river 50 miles wide.
For centuries the people have been swamp-
dwellers as a protection against head-hunting
enemies. To get to their villages from the
river and gardens, each tribe hewed down
• trees, cut them into logs and placed them
in line, under water, across the swamp.
These lines of logs were their roads. No
handrail or guiding posts were provided.
The line of logs was from two feet to armpit
depth under water { and any attacking force
had to come in single tile and at a great
disadvantage. The transportation of light
canoes from swamp to swamp was some-
times indulged in by attackers, but this
method was slow and cumbersome, and if
such a raiding party was caught out of its
, own swamp the members lost their heads
quick and lively. Patrol officers wading
through the Sepik have many a time cursed
the defence measures of the natives when
trying to keep their footing on those
invisible, mud-covered log roads.
* * * *
“The Rumpus”: If anyone wants to get
a real shock from contact with a denizen of
the deep, let him take a small dolphin in
his arms like he would a nice girl. Of course
the fish must be just out of the water. In
mv old windjamming days, our skipper once
allowed us to trail a rope hooked and baited
with a lump of rotten barrel pork to catch
an enormous shark that was following our
vessel. We missed with the inancater, but
hooked a dolphin in its stead. We had' a
block rigged to haul our capture in, and in a
few minutes the fish was swinging shoulder-
high over our decks—about 601 b. of mag-
nificent energy. “Take him in your arms,”
ordered the mate. As luck had it I was
nearest. I merely touched the creature with
one finger and was flung into the scuppers
in a dazed condition. Two others tried
and suffered similarly before the dolphin was
lowered to the deck^—something the mate
was trying to avoid on the score of cleanli-
ness. My two scamates and self underwent
a curious sense of drunkenness for over two
hours—much to the envy of the balance
of the crew.
* * * *
“Krag-Jorgensen”: A well-known identity
in North Queensland in the very early days
was Svendson the Swede, a giant of a man,
standing 7ft. 3in. in his socks and weighing,
in his prime, all of 20 stone. He was a
horse-dealer by occupation, but as a side-
line used to take a tent at agricultural
shows and challenge all and sundry to box,
wrestle, tug a rope, or indulge in an elbow-
bending competition with him (not with
beverages) for a £lO stake. He made a
rich harvest out of the shillings paid for
admittance —that was the only entrance fee
—and only once did he have to stump up
his tenner. It happened at Kiddistake in
’Of), when a Jap pearl-diver named Ivuraklava
—a little weed of a chap—took him on at
wrestling. Svendson laughed, picked the
little fellow up with his hairy paws, and
held him aloft at arm’s length for all the
AFTER THE RAINS.
NEWCHUM ( to his Aussie girl): “But in England, don’tyerknow, the — aw—fields are
always as green as that!”
HIS AUSSIE GIRL : “Yes, dear, but so they ought to be when you can stand in the middle
of the country and water it all with a can.”
crowd to see. That’s where the big Swede
erred. While he was still laughing a naked
brown foot was thrust into his mouth,
another brown foot locked under his chin
and a pair of brown hands grabbed his
whiskers. Svendson’s face grew purple, and
great veins swelled on his forehead. He
attempted to dash the Jap to the ground,
but the man from Nippon only consolidated
his octopus grip. Svendson stood the torture
for three solid minutes and then crashed
to the ground backwards, the Jap on top.
The Swede paid up like a brick and offered
his conqueror a partnership, but the slant-
eyed gent preferred to go back to his pearls.
* * * *
“Cucbulain”: Our black kitten Desouter
appeared to be off his food one day lately,
and as he finally refused to come when
qalled lie was grabbed. He
was dopy, an,d looked as though
suffering from mumps or swol-
len glands round his neck and
under the chin. A review of a
week’? diet disclosed that he
could not possibly have had
either fish- or chicken-bones
which might have pierced
through his throat. After
attention the lump, about
as big as a golf-ball, finally de-
creased to the size of a marble,
just behind the ear, and from
there it refused to budge. The
hair was cut away preparatory
to opening the lump, when of
its own accord a fine spear-like
object popped out. A pair of
tweezers dragged an inch and
I a half of this out —putrid to a degree. It
was a stalk of grass with seed attached —
apparently Johnston grass. The general
symptoms of the case pointed to blood
poisoning.
* * * *
“Getem”: Two cane-cutters put one over
an argumentative butcher in a N.Q. town
recently. Both stonybroke, they were won-
dering how to raise the wind when one of
them saw the butcher, remembered his re-
putation for disputation, and got a brain-
wave. Entering the shop, presumably to
purchase, he soon had the butcher arguing
as to whether one of the carcases was mutton
or goat. He said it was goat. The butcher,
! who was sure of his ground, insisted it was
l mutton. “Bet you a quid it’s gOat,” said
! the cutter. “Right-oh,” replied the butcher,
“but how will we settle itV” “Ask the first
man that comes in.” “Right.” This was the
cue for the other cutter, who strolled in and
was asked to adjudicate. After a lengthy and
apparently expert examination he voted in
favor of' goat, and the pair were taken
to the local lock-up, speechless, a good two
hours before the pubs closed.
H*
“N’lmporte”: The folk of Mossman
(N.Q.) point out to visitors, high up on the
loftiest point of the heavily-bushed westward
range, a bare patch shaped like the conven-
tional representations of the Good Shepherd
with a lamb under His arm and another at
His feet. The white image is clear to the
vision on a fine day, and the surrounding
scrub and vegetation have never been known
to encroach upon its outline. It is probably
a rock outcrop.
jJj iji iJC
“Warrego Bill”: Beer-drinking records?
My nomination is a coal-heaver whom I
first met in the Geelong train. During the
48 miles trip he polished off nine bottles
of ale without the aid of a glass. I was
moved to admiration, but he pooh-poohed the
idea that he had done anything out of the
ordinary, “pome up to the Apollo Inn next
Friday,” he said, “and I’ll show you what
beer-drinking is.” He added that he had
a bet on with a cobber. Each was to have
a dozen of ale placed in front of him and
the man who drank his dozen first was to
win, but —and this was a curious but —my
friend was to open his bottles with his teeth,
whilst the other chap used an opener. 1
was at the ringside at the appointed time
and saw the combatants lined up for the
fray. My coal-heaver won easily. At the
word “Go” he seized a bottle, put the
capsule between his teeth and with a swift
wrench tore it off. Then he leaned back
negligently and let the stuff pour down into
a seemingly unfillable tank. His time was
17min. 35sec., his opponent taking 35min.
3sec. to do the distance.
* * * %
“Up North”: If Zane Grey wants some
really thrilling fishing he should go to Thurs-
day Island and tackle the diamond fish,
which weighs half a ton as a baby and two
tons as a full-grown fish. None has been
hooked yet. These huge creatures have been
known to snap the coir anchor rope of a
lugger. Warship’s tackle is necessary to
catch them.
FORTY-THREE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I grab the “wanted” column and I read it
to the end,
But there’s not a single job that’s want-
ing me.
At times I drop on something, and my
flagging spirits mend,
Till I reach the wording “Under thirty-
three.”
Boys wanted by the hundred, and the pay
seems fair enough,
Aud for younger workers jobs in stacks
there are;
But ’tis no use my applying, and I feel it
more than tough
Being outed by the “over forty” bar.
For carpenters they’re calling, and brick-
layers by the score,
And for hoddies at a pound and more per day.
I’d be worth a hundred hoddies where the
stamps fall on the ore,
And I’d like to collar half a hoddie’s pay.
But there’s not a stamp-mill running, end
to end of New South Wales ;
Though mining news incessantly I con,
I only find their funerals announced in
Auction Sales,
And my occupation, like Othello’s, gone.
There are salesmen, it’s apparent, in con-
tinuous demand.
It’s a game I tried my hand at for a spell,
But for me to trade allotments is like
weaving ropes of sand,
And I couldn’t vend a lemon-squash in
Hell.
But put me by the boilers when the steam
is falling low.
The mill and winders running at their top,
I’ll feed and rake and slice them, and I’ll
steam the whole darned show.
And keep the outfit going till I drop.
There’s tons and tons of billets for the flap-
pers and the lads,
Pantrymen and carcase butchers and their
sorts,
But nothing for a bushman who is handy
with the adze,
And who’ll tune a team of stariipcrs on
the quartz.
But still I dream that some day, where it's
printed clear and fair,
“A first-class millhand wanted” I shall see
At the highest rate of wages (Oh, the joy
of quids to spare!),
“And he must be on or over forty-three”!
N.s.w.
E. W. O’BRIEN.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover ot
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons. . ,
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, literary, Sydney, would like
to make acquaintance of other writers, view
clucking each other’s work and discussion of
same.—osl)4.
Young man, Q’land, would like to corre-
spond with readers of The Bulletin. —1)593.
By young man (N.S.W.), honest, sober
and reliable, position on station during shear-
ing, with wool-classer, with view to gaining
experience.—9017.
Man, bridge enthusiast (36), out of touch
with good bridge through isolation in Never-
Never, invites correspondence—96oB.
By woolclasser, going to N.S.W. and Q.
sheds, youth of good appearance and address,
prepared to work and glean knowledge with
the object of carrying on in cases of emer-
gency—96l6.
By prospector, two mates to help work
copper-mine, N.S.W.; any amount of ore
and good ore to start on. Very little money
needed, as advertiser has nearly all tools.
Three miles from railway.—962o.
Young man (27), N.S.W., fairly well read,
would like to correspond with lady interested
in philosophy or science, view to friendship.
—9625.
By youth (19), job as assistant to
shearers’ cook, N.S.W. station, with view to
learning. Wages secondary consideration. —
9632.
By married man (Vic.), position as farm
manager or overseer. Thorough knowledge
of all classes of stock and crops. Ex. ref.
—9639.
By married Englishman (28), well edu-
cated, can speak several languages, good
musician, position as secretary, Vic. pre-
ferred. —9619.
Printed account of the voyage of sailing-
ship Mistress of the Seas from Liverpool to
Melbourne in 1862. (To J. Pyett, 187 Hay-
street, Subiaco, W.A.)
To buy “Australian Encyclopaedia,” 2 vols.
(1926). Must be in first-class condition.—
9643.
To buy copy of “Lady Chatterley’s Lover,”
by D. 11. Lawrence. —9571,
To exchange good violin for steel guitar
or banjo-mandolin.—9642.
To exchange new Browning automatic
rifle in very good order for good camera. —
9631.
To exchange, Society of Artists, Sydney
Exhibition Book (1922), limited .edition of
1000 copies, for latest novel by Joseph
Lincoln. —9572.
To borrow or purchase pamphlet pub-
lished years ago at Mossman (Q.) re the
Lizard Island Tragedy.—96ls.
Words of poem entitled “Up and Down
the Duckboards,” by George Crerar. (To W.
A. Carne, e/o Mr. George Batchelor, 12 Mc-
Killop-street, Melbourne.
Information Sought.
(1) Was W. 8. Luster’s grand opera
co. n' Sydney at any time ? (2) Arc the
opera librettos used by that company of any
value? (3) Where was the Prince of Wales
Opera House ( Sydney ) situated? (4) When
was it demolished? —9429.
(1) It first appeared in Sydney on August
5, 1861, in “Maritana,” at the Prince of
Wales Opera House, and a company under
Lyster, with many changes in the per-
sonnel, played seasons in Sydney nearly
every year up to 1881. (2) No value. (3)
On the site of the present Theatre Royal.
(4) It was destroyed by fire in 1860.
Can you give me a recipe for making
honey mead? —9317.
For every 3£lb. honey, allow one gallon
water. Boil together for one hour, skimming
carefully. The skimmings should be strained
and returned to the pan. When almost cold,
to every nine gallons stir in a teacup of
yeast. Set away in a cool place with a
muslin cover for at least a month before
bottling. English recipes give up to one
year for storing before bottling.
What is the easiest way to polish stag-
horns? —9401.
Scrub clean in hot soapy water. When
dry rub in a mixture of neatsfoot oil and
emery powder (or knife polish), which should
be applied with a flannel or small brush.
Wipe clean and polish with a silk duster.
What is the law in N.S.W. regarding the
carrying of firearms on Sundays? —9so9.
Any person found carrying firearms on
Sunday is liable to a penalty of £5. This
does not apply to firearms carried lona fide
by travellers for the protection of life and
property, or by constables.
What chemicals are required for making
fire with sulphuric acid and sugar? —94o7.
Grind crystallised potassium chlorate to a
fine powder and then mix with sugar; then
pour one or two drops of sulphuric acid over
same by means of a fountain-pen filleV.
(1) What class of marine engineer’s cer-
tificate is the holder of a second-class eng%\e-
d river’s certificate (Q’land) entitled to?
(2) What experience must a candidate have
to enable him to sit for a second-class marine
engineer’s certificate? (3) Is there any way
in which this certificate can be obtained in
the Navy? (4) What changes has a lands-
man otf netting a berth in the Navy? —923o.
(1) The certificates are in no way inter-
changeable. (2) He must have served five
years’ apprenticeship at the engineering trade
in a shon where engines and boilers are
manufactured or repaired, and must have
had 18 months’ seagoing experience in charge
of ii watch. (3) Time served in the Navy
does not count for the certificate. (4) The
chance of getting to sea at the present time
is very*limited. A number of engineers with
certificates are looking for positions. To go
into the Navy it will be necessary to join
as a cadet or an engine-room artificer, after
having served time at the engineering trade.
Is galvaniscd-iron wire suitable for use as
a lightning-conductorf How can I prevent
sparks jumping between my aerial and earth
during heavy storms ?—9s4s.
Galvanised-iron wire may be used but
copper-wire is recommended, as it offers a
much lower resistance to the passage of elec-
tricity. A lightning-arrester and earthing-
switch should be connected between the base
of your aerial and the earth lead.
What textbooks do you recommend for a
person wishing to learn short-story writing?
—9610.
It is doubtful if the art of story-writing
can be learned from textbooks; best authori-
ties say it cannot. However, there are
many books on the subject, a representative
selection being: “The Short Story,” by E. M.
Albright (13s. 6d.) ; “Art of Story Writing,”
by N. C. Fowler (65.) ; “Short Story Writ-
ing for Profit,” by M. Joseph (Bs.) ; and
“Handbook of Story Writing,” by B. C.
Williams (13s. 6d.).
I have a lemon-tree on a suburban plot
bearing well, but the fruit is so covered with
a brown-red scale that the lemons are wither-
ing before maturity, in some cases falling off
and in others splitting open, What is the
disease, and how can I combat it? —9slB.
Sounds like red scale. Spray with
miscible oil, of which there are several
brands on the market. This is usually mixed
at the rate of one of oil to 40 of water. It
is important that the oil should be properly
emulsified, otherwise damage to the tree will
result. Drops of free oil of a clear, brownish-
red variety floating on the surface indicates
that a thorough emulsion has not been
obtained. Soft water should be used for
mixing. Spraying should be carried out in
a very thorough manner, employing an
adequate quantity of the spray so that no
portion of the tree is missed. Don T t spray
in bright sunlight.
Can you give me a recipe for curing
trumpeter fish? —9479.
The most convenient method of curing
trumpeter is by salting in boxes. The fish
should be carefully cleaned and bled, sliced
along the middle and opened out. The fish
are placed in the box flesh side up and coarse
salt sprinkled uniformly over the top. This
process is repeated layer after layer. The
uppermost layer is placed flesh side down
and a liberal amount of salt placed over it.
About three weeks will probably be found
necessary to complete the salting process.
Does a shark have to turn on its back
while attacking onyone in the water? —
9493.
Careful observation has failed to substan-
tiate this. T. C. Roughley, Economic Zoolo-
gist, Technological Museum, Sydney, says
he has seen sharks attacking prey on the
surface of the water, and that they in-
variably assumed their normal position, with
backs uppermost.
(11 What chance is there of getting a
position as timber-getter on the Bunya
Mountains ( Q'land ) or thereabouts? (2)
What are the wages? (3) How does the work
compare with canc-outting in North Queens-
land?—9294. .
(1) Very remote. (2) The award rate is
2s. 3Ad. per hour. Piece-workers are not
covered by an award and make their own
arrangements on a contract basis for felling
and hauling. (3) Cane-cutting returns
bigger earnings to an experienced worker.
(1) Is the bonus of ss. per share paid by
Automatic Totalisators, Limited, on ordinary
shares, out of the sale of their British rights
liable for income-tax in Australia? (2)
Should dividends paid by Morris, Hedstrom,
Ltd., be shown on income-tax returns? —
9416.
(1) No. (2) Yes.
(1) In protecting an invention what patent
rights are necessary, and what is the cost
of securing these? (2) Where can I inspect
previous records and ascertain if the inden-
tion is original? —9s6o.
(1) Can’t advise you as to cost of patent
protection. That depends entirely on
whether your invention is of local or world-
wide value. Better consult a patent-attor-
ney. (2) Commonwealth records may be
inspected at the Commonwealth Patent
Office, Melbourne, or the Trade-marks sub-
office, Commonwealth Bank Buildings,
Sydney.
How can I eradicate slaters? —96s3.
The best control for slaters is to dust
their haunts and hiding-places with sodium
fluoride (poison). A useful method is to
set out flat boards in damp situations, and
to dust beneath them with sodium fluorite
when the slaters have commenced to congre-
gate there. Do not apply the dust directly
to plants, except weeds. Also, lightly-boiled
potatoes cut into' slices, which are then
sprinkled with Paris green, calcium arsen-
ate, or arsenate of lead powder, is recom-
mended. Place these potato baits under
boards, stones, or in damp situations where
the slaters accumulate.
I hade a crystal receiver which I intend
converting into a valve receiver for use with
a laud speaker. Would you advise adding
two valves to this receiver, or would better
results be obtained by employing two valves
(det. and audio.) without the crystal? —9637.
You will obtain better results without the
crystal by employing the first valve as a de-
tector and the second as a low-frequency
amplifier. This combination will give good
speaker volume around Sydney when used
with an ordinary out-door aerial. Most
crystal detectors require adjusting whilst in
use, and any increase in volume which would
be otherwise obtained with the crystal valve
combination is amply compensated by the
use of regeneration possible on the valve
detector circuit. A suitable circuit will be
found on page 159 of the Radio Guide, pub-
lished by Amalgamated Wireless, Ltd., 4 1
York-street, Sydney. The variable conden-
ser at present in your crystal receiver will
be suitable for use as a tuning condenser
in the two-valve receiver.
If I import from an English manufac-
turer the unassembled parts of a dynamic-
type loud speaker, costing £4 4s. in England,
ichat duty would I have to pay? —o426.
If parts do not include cabinet they are
admitted free of duty under tariff item 404.
Cabinets are dutiable under tariff item
305 (a) — 35 p.c. (British Preferential
Tariff).
What is alunite used for? What is its
unrefined value, and who are likely pur-
chasers ? —9507.
Chiefly for the production of alum, potash
salts, aluminium sulphate, alumina and sul-
phuric acid. When roasted, it is used as a
fertiliser. It is worth possibly from £4
to £5 per ton at the mine. Inquiries should
be addressed to Saddington and Dixon, 109
Pitt-street; and Frank Hambridge, 32
Bridge-street—both of Sydney.
Would a violin in fair condition, aiul hear-
ing the label of Andreas Am-ati, and dated
1640, have value cither as an antique or as
a musical instrument? —9s63.
If genuine, it’s worth anything from £lOO
to £lOOO. But there are hundreds of fac-
tory-made instruments, bearing an exact fac-
simile label of an original Amati, distributed
throughout Australia. The value of these
varies from a few shillings to about £lO.
Submit your violin to A. E. Smith and Co.,
68 Hunter-street, Sydney, for an expert
opinion.
Can you give me any information concern-
ing the Stuart's Range ( S.A .) opal field that
would be helpful to a prospector intending
to go there? —949B.
The postal centre is Coober Pedy. The
field was found in 1916 and has produced
opal valued at £112,522 since that date.
The estimated value of the opal won during
1928 is £11,540; but stones may have been
found and not reported. The workings extend
over a broad belt of country about 40 miles
long. At present the market for opal is
steady, and there is no difficulty in disposing
of the stone if the quality is satisfactory to
the buyers on the field. There is a regular
weekly mail service to the field by motor-cars
which leave Kingoouya (210 miles from Port
Augusta on the Transcontinental Railway)
every Saturday. The fare from the
railway to the field is £5. The rail
fare from Port Augusta to Ivingoonya
is £1 6s. 9d. second-class, and £2 os.
Id. first-class. The Government has in-
stalled a tank on the field, which at present
contains enough water to last several months.
Water can be bought at Bs. 4d. per 1000
gallons at the tank by those who have then-
own conveyance, or it may be obtained de-
livered to the camps at ss. per 100 gallons.
Wood is relatively scarce and costs about
255. per load delivered. Stores may be
purchased on the field, and fresh meat is
obtainable every week.
(1) How should I set about taking out
a patent and (2) getting an invention on
the market? —9549.
(1) Apply to a patent-attorney. (2)
After an application for a patent has been
lodged, the invention may be submitted to
any manufacturer making that sort of
machinery.
(1) Can a boy of 17 be apprenticed as
an improver to the plumbing trade in Q’land?
(2) Is there any age limit? (3) Where can
full information on the subject be secured? —
9536.
(1) He can be apprenticed but not as an
“improver.” An “improver” is “a young
worker not apprenticed.” (2) No. (3)
From the Apprenticeship Committee, Trea-
sury Buildings, Brisbane.
What is the value of mica, and is there
any fixed price for scrap mica? —9568.
The price of mica depends upon the size of
the sheet and its quality for electrical pur-
poses. According to quality the price varies
from 6d. to over 40s. per lb. for approved
sheet. There is no fixed price for scrap mica.
To be of any value at all it must come from
good-quality sheet.
(1) Does malaria exist to a serious extent
in Australia? (2) Was it introduced by new-
comers from tropical regions, or has it always
existed here? (3) What precautionary steps
are being taken against its spread by the
authorities ? —9512.
(1) No. (2) Probably introduced in the
early days of colonisation. References in
historical and medical literature do not indi-
cate that, at the earliest period of its his-
tory, there was any evidence of malaria in
Australia. (3) Precautionary measures
mainly aim at the destruction of anopheles
(malaria-carrying) mosquitoes. Entomolo-
gical surveys are periodically carried out
by the health authorities to determine the
distribution and habits of these mosquitoes.
Actual control measures in most States are
duties of the local government authorities.
Cases of malaria are notified by medical
practitioners to the health authorities (ex-
cept in New South Wales). These measures,
combined with intensive methods of treating
cases, prevented any spread of infection
from the thousands of returned soldiers in-
fected oversea during the war.
Is a permanent Light Horse force in exist-
ence? If so, how could I join, same? What
are the physical and educational qualifica-
tions and conditions of service? —9457.
No such force is in existence as portion of
the Australian military forces. There are,
however, a number of light-horse regiments
which are organised as part of the Citizen
Forces and to which are attached a limited
number of members of the Permanent Staff
for instructional and administrative pur-
poses. Tt is permissible for suitable persons
to be voluntarily enlisted in the light-horse
regiments referred to, the training in which
amounts to 12 days per annum. Further
particulars can be secured from the District
Base Commandant, Victoria Barracks, Syd-
ney.
(1) Are there any vacancies in the A J
and Central Australia police forces, and ‘
are members recruitedf . (-) What sal y f*
paid, and what special allowances e •
(3) What leave of absence is grantea.
9434.
(1) Not at present. When there are vacan-
cies the authorities advertise i° r r^ c '
(2) Salary: Ist year, £312 p.a. ; - D “ J, ;
£324; 3rd year, £336 ; 4th year, £348. ou
year, £360 ; 6th and 7th years, £373 , »tn
and 9tli years, £384; 10th and 11th J •
£396; 12th year and onwards, £4OB. Brea
quarters are provided, also a uniform
ance at the rate of £l5 p.a. is paid. -
stationed in a country district, £5 p.a. m j
be allowed for shoeing. Freight allowances
are also granted. (3) One month * or .
year of service, suen leave not to >
for more than five years. After 1» J
service a constable may be granted lea
absence (furlough) for six months on
pay or 12 months on half-pay.
Brief Answers.
D.E.M.Iv.: “Practical Bookbinding,” by W.
I). Pearce, and “Bookbinding,” by P. N. Hasluck,
2*. each; Dymock’s, Sydney... . K.H.M.: “The German
Mark from 1914 to 1924” (published by E. Schurter,
Gabelsberger-strasse, 62, Nuremberg, Germany),
describes all German bank and treasury notes issued
prior to the war, and during the war and the in-
flation period J.D.: The estimated population of
Sydney at the end of 1927 was 1,101,190. There are
at least 20 cities with a larger population than
Sydney in the w0r1d.... R.T.: If the article offered
for sale is publicly exposed before auction, the pui-
chaser should have satisfied himself that it is fit for
the purpose to which he proposes to put it. It has
been held that, as a rule, a general warranty does
not extend to obvious defects. Your claim would
depend largely on what warranty was given, and
upon this there would be, probably, a conflict of
evidence F.J.: ‘‘Australian Gardener,” by F. H.
Brunning (7s. Od.), Angus and Robertson, Sydney.
M.U.J.: Sheep usually have a recognised camping
place in each paddock; where the country is un-
dulating to level, they seem to prefer the higher
ground. By bringing the sheep to the desired camping
place and holding them there loosely until they
settle down each night for several weeks they might
be induced to make it the regular camp. In the
West it is a simple matter to grow pepper or wilga
trees in sheep yards... .J.C.: “My System for
Children,” by Muller (4s. 6d.), and “The Australian
Gardener,” by Brunning (7s. 6d.). Both are obtain-
able from Angus and Robertson, Sydney... .W.T.:
Dugong oil should be obtainable from any chemist
in business in N.S.W. Your local chemist can pro-
cure it wholesale from Elliott Bros., Ltd., 20-22
O’Connell-strect, Sydney... .W.H.: Subject to all
the provisions of the N.S.W. Family Endowment
Act being complied with, a widower is eligible to
receive endowment. The general claim forms should
be altered by a widower in order to meet his par-
ticular circumstances... .H.P.J.: Probate duty is
payable in the estate of the testator as it stands at
the time of his death. The question of his then
interest in any property rests with the Commissioner
for Stamp Duties... .F.P.: W. C. Penfold and Co.,
Ltd., 88 Pitt-street, Sydney.... Mrs. A.: Make
application to the Registrar of Probates and Admini-
stration, Law Department, Melbourne, who will
supply full particulars... .S.M.: As yet, no text-
books on the “talkies” have made their appearance
on the Australian book market. A brief explanation
of the “Movie-tone” system was published on the
Service Page (B. 6/2/’29) ... .C.N.S.: Write to the
Secretary, Fur Farming Commission, Stock and
Biands Branch, Department of Agriculture, Sydney.
....J.C.: (1) A recipe for home-brewed ale was
published Service Page, B. 27/2/’29. (2) Will
answer later. .. .C. 8.: N.S.W'. law prevents us from
disclosing information concerning sweeps and lotteries
conducted outside the State. ... M.A.: (1) Have in-
serted in “Wants” column. (2) Question too vague.
Let us know exactly what you want. .. . A.H.M.: No,
we don’t recommend it.. . .A.L.C.: Depends on what
chances you are prepared to take. You can’t get
returns like that without taking big risks... .E.R.G.:
Ditto to you. .. .H.A.C.; Not the thing for one of
your age and in your position—you’ve got no chance
of a recovery if you 105 e... .0.E.: The usual pro-
cedure is for the inventor to obtain provisional pro-
tection for his invention and under cover of that
to submit it to persons doing business in the par-
ticular line. Any patent-attorney will advise you
whether your ideas are sufficiently advanced to
enable you to obtain provisional protection. It is
not necessary to give full details but only a general
outline. .. .E.A.D.: Rev. W. E. Dorin, Australian
Inland Mission, Carnarvon, W.A., was asking for
back numbers of The Bulletin for distribution
among out-back settlers. You could send your col-
lection to him.... J.P.F.: (1) The best way to learn
is to attend a reputable art school —there are several
in Sydney. (2) Yes, but it would be unwise to
throw up your present vocation until you had firmly
established yourself... .C.R.E.: Their values are
(1) 2d.; (2) 7s. 6d.; (3) 3s. 6d R.F.: Write to
A. W. Freeman, Challis House, Martin-place, Sydney.
. ...A.G.: “Testing Milk and Cream” (Is. 2d.,
posted), “Hides, Skins and Sundries” (9d.), both
obtainable from Department of Agriculture, Sydney.
. ...P.M.: Meggitt, Ltd., 26 King-street, Sydney....
W .T.: You can make the springs at home. Purchase
a coil of 31-gauge piano wire and wind to desired
length on a l-16in. mandrel, holding mandrel and
one end of wire in vyce... .A.M.: Try the Button-
hole Fancy Costume Co., 119 Liverpool-street; or
Mrs. Woolf, 112 Bathurst-street—both of Sydney....
0.W.: Write to the local Government Examination
Committee, Local Government Department, Bligh-
street, Sydney’... .H.J.8.: Cannot trace the meaning
of “Mulwaree” in any of the aboriginal vocabularies
. ...V.D.: Both tea and coffee contain a stimulant
called caffeine. Cocoa contains another called theo-
bromine. A glass of hot milk is your best nightcap.
. ...R.J.D.: It is essential to bandage the cuts twice
a day. Obtain unguentum lassar (30z.) and apply
it after bathing the cuts with warm water night
and morning. Then bandage immediately... .N. 8.:
Consult “List of N.S.W. Aboriginal Plaeenames and
Their Meanings,” compiled by W. W. Thorpe (price
6d.), obtainable from The Australian Museum,
College-street, Sydney... .J.C.: Write to the Com-
monwealth Public Service Inspector, 3 Alfred-place,
Melbourne... .T.J.: The question of making annual
awards for the best local scenarios for moving
pictures is under consideration by the Federal Gov-
ernment. The terms and conditions have not yet
been arrived at... .R.M.D.: Oratrix was scratched
for the Sydney Cup (1924) with the Wellington
(M.L.) agent for the A.J.C. at 5 p.m. on March
13, 1929. .. . J.S.: (1) Send it to Frank Hambridge,
22 Bridge-street, Sydney, by registered post, and
he will realise it for you. (2) N0....R.J.: (1)
There are 22.41 b. of tin in a unit. (2) At 40s. per
unit a ton of 70 per cent, tin concentrate is worth
£140... .James B.: You can’t get 124 p.c. and
perfect safety except by a fluke. Yet it’s probably
quite a good risk at the price.... (Many others
mailed.)


99
It
fT/ie Puling ‘Preference
A*
3!
//
m£*>
IP*'.
WC
m
rn
F
5^
f C I*
sc°
of
i
X
till* 1
W
c£
1#
feO
0*
&orcr>
<sIV
(gold label)


The
Clip
ĕ
may be small or large in size, attractive or otherwise
ITI quality and condition. That’s not the point. Every
grade of wool and every bale or even bag of it has
its correct market value. And if this action is taken
that full value will be secured.
Send the Wool to
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
Selling Brokers, LTD.
SYDNEY or BRISBANE,
Who secnre growers highest possible figures for every
bale or bag they cell.
21.
EARN ALL YOU CAN—
SAVE ALL YOU CAN—GIVE ALL YOU CAN
Such was the good advice of John Wesley. You are, of course, entitled
to earn all yoii can, and no doubt are bending all your energies in that
direction.
Nevertheless, what you save will, in the long run, probably count for
more than what you earn.
Use the easy saving plan. Open a Commonwealth Savings Account,
and be faithful to' it, for the sake of your future needs and that you
may be able to give when it is your duty to give.
(flbmmonwcaltb Savings Bank of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter S Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
THE MAM
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CBPARK & CASNEREAGH STS SYDNEY
PRIZES FOR FARM HINTS.
Thousands of men fail on the land be-
cause they don’t know how to succeed;
many thousands more succeed less than
they should because they lack proper
guidance.
“The Bulletin’’ wants to encourage
farmers and scientists who know to help
those who don’t know.
With that object it offers two prizes of
£2O and £lO for the most useful contri-
butions to the “Land” pages during the
six months ending June 30 next.
All contributions submitted, whether
published or not, will be considered in
awarding points, and the prizes will go
to the winners of most points.
Points will be awarded for interest and
practical usefulness.
The prizes are additional to the usual
payment for published contributions.
LIME REQUIREMENTS OF DAIRY
STOCK.
“Irad” : Native grasses and cereals are de-
ficient in lime as measured by milk require-
ments. Heavy milking cows on grass alone
will give off much more lime in their milk
than they receive in their food. They draw
on their bones for the balance, but a time
comes when the body is in a state of lime
starvation, and the milk flow is suddenly
reduced, reproduction becomes difficult, and
the general health of the animal is seriously
impaired. To make up for this deficiency
many dairy herds in N. S. Wales are fed
a mixture of iron and sterilised bonemeal,
and in other cases use is made of clovers,
lucerne and other leguminous plants, which
eontaih seven or eight times as much lime
as do the native grasses that form approxi-
mately 75 p.c. of the fodder for the dairy
herds of the State.
The native grasses have one redeeming
feature in that they are rich in vitamines
the whole year round, whereas in Great
Britain it has been found that the spring
pastures contain approximately 10 times
more fat soluble vitamine than is necessary
for growth, and that in the winter pastures
it falls to a minimum. This should give
Australian butter an added value on the
London markets on account of its consis-
tency throughout the year.
Taking the analysis of a gallon of milk,
it will be found that most of it is water, the
balance consisting of Boz. of sugar, 6oz. of
fat, approximately soz. of casein and 1.250 z.
of lime. It will thus be seen that the milking
cow requires a very large quantity of lime
(twice as much as a mare), and she must
obtain her requirements from the food she
eats.
Superphosphates contain approximately 20
p.c. phosphoric acid, of which about 17 p.c.
is water soluble, and can be assimilated by
the growing plant. This has the effect of
producing a greater root growth, which gives
the plant a greatly-increased feeding area,
which in turn allows more lime to be assimi-
lated by the plant.
Although some authorities say that super-
phosphates supply a limited quantity of lime
to both the land and the plants thereon, it
is none the less certain that by the continued
use of super, the lime in the ground becomes
steadily reduced, so that the soil at last may
become not only deficient in lime as a plant
food, but may acquire an acidity or sourness
unfavorable to growth. Lime corrects
acidity, and should be applied in such cases.
The quantity depends on circumstances.
Clayey soil will require probably twice as
much as light volcanic or sandy soil. In
all cases two or three years should elapse
between each dressing.
Rickets in calves and osteomalacia in the
mother are both directly traceable to a lime
deficiency in diet. An amazingly large num-
ber of dairy cows and their calves in N.S.W.
are more or less suffering from these com-
plaints, but the nature of their ailments is
not recognised by their owners.
Where these diseases are diagnosed, the
accepted treatment is to supply the animals
with a mixture of sterilised bone-meal, sul-
phate of iron and salt, but prevention is
simpler and more profitable than cure, for
■where osteomalacia is present, whether appa-
rent or not, the milk supply is deficient, and
the affected cow is more of a liability than
an asset.
The moral is that the dairy-farmer should
make judicious use of superphosphates and
top-dressings of lime. The cost is repaid a
hundredfold, not only through the cream
cheques, but in the development of healthier
and faster-growing calves, and, last but not
least, in the increased carrying capacity of
the land.
PROFITABLE TOPDRESSING.
“Curlew”; R. A. Wilson, of Marton, Wel-
lington Province (M.L.), bus detailed the
results of topdressing on 490 acres of heavy
clay lands. In 1921 100 acres were under
crop. Last year the cultivated area had
dwindled to 40 acres under wheat and oats
and 20 under swedes. Over 100 per cent, of
lambs are reared and fattened annually.
Before topdressing was inaugurated (in
1921) 630 ewes were pastured. Last year,
almost wholly owing fo topdressing, the num-
*ber had risen to 1532. Here are the figures:
’2l. ’22. ’23. ’24. ’26. ’26. ’27. ’2B.
Ewes .. 630 653 960 1000 1050 1200 1300 1532
Manure—
(tons) 12 Hi 194 22 J 24J 294 37.1
(coat, £) 115 85 141 164 156 132 196
The steady continuous increase in the num-
ber of sheep carried has been due, not so
much to the manure applied in one particular
year, but largely to residual effects from
previous years.
POTASSIC FERTILISERS.
“R.D.A.” ; Let me butt into the muriate
v. sulphate fertiliser controversy. I main-
tain emphatically that sulphate at ±l4 IDs.
per ton is cheaper, is safer to add to any
soil and gives more profitable results than
the lower-priced muriate at £l2 10s. per ton.
Muriate quickly depletes the soil of its
lime by forming calcium chloride, a highly
soluble and easily leached salt. This is a
most serious matter in view of the low lime
content of our Australian soils. Calcium
chloride is also injurious to plants. Sulphate
of potash, on the other hand, forms calcium
sulphate, which is relatively insoluble (1
part in 400 parts water) and is non-injurious
to plant growth.
The muriate, in a complicated way, breaks
down or hinders the proper formation of
starch and sugars, to the detriment of the
resultant fruit or other product. For in-
stance, it is well known that, although a
muriate-fertilised potato crop will generally
give a bigger yield than that fertilised with
the sulphate, the former are smaller and in-
ferior potatoes—watery, bad keepers, and
poor cookers. They lack quality and are hard
of sale. The same applies to sugar-beet
and other root crops.
So bad is the effect of the muriate on wine
grapes—in which the sugar content plays an
all-important part in fermentation, and in
which the chemical compounds absorbed from
the soil whilst the grape is maturing make
or mar the resultant wine—that, I am told,
the S. Australian vignerons have cut out the
muriate form as a source of potashl
The muriate is useless for tobacco-grow-
ing, because it is absorbed by the plant and
prevents proper burning of the leaf. Pot-
assium sulphate, as an ash content in
tobacco, is non-fusible and without any
“dampening” effect on the resultant tobacco
—hence the exclusive use of the sulphate
form for tobacco growing.
The muriate always contains more im-
purities than the sulphate—particularly
common salt and magnesium chloride in the
lower-grade stuff. These substances are best
kept right out of Australian soils for obvious
reasons.
The “stickiness” and consequent “caking”
in the muriate is due to magnesium chloride,
and that is why Australian fertiliser manu-
facturers use practically all sulphate when
compounding their fertiliser mixtures. How-
ever, I am given to understand that there
has been a decrease in the magnesium
chloride content of the muriate in the latest
importations.
The only advantage over the sulphate pos-
sessed by the muriate is that when added
to the soil it diffuses more rapidly, i.e., be-
comes more quickly available to the plant.
It has been said that the muriate is
“potassically richer” than the sulphate. 1
fail to see it, as my local quotes for the
sulphate and muriate credit them both with
a potassium content of 50 p.c., whilst an
English table of the concentrated salts of
the chloride and sulphate (as manufactured
products) gives the range of purity in the
sulphate as from 90 p.c. to 90 p.c., with a
total potash content of from 49.9 p.c. to
52 pc. For the chloride, the puritv ranges
from 70 p.c. to 95 p.c., and total potash
content from 37.9 p.c. to 52.7 p.c.
As to the question of imports into Aus-
tralia of potassic manures, ’“The Common-
wealth Year Book, 1925-26,” shows imported
potassium under the head of "all other fer-
tilisers” with a weight of 8649 tons and a
value of £80,900. So there are not as many
thousands of tons of the muriate imported
as some would have us believe. Further,
muriate imports have declined considerably
in the last few years.
American imports of potash have been
quoted as if all the potash imported there
was used in agriculture, which isn’t the
case. But even so, I herewith quote the
“Statistical Abstract of the U. States for
1928,” showing total imports of potash in
tons: —
Chloride, crude .. .. .. 163,817 tons
Sulphate, crude 69,873 „
Kainite 102,987 „
Manure salts 277,998 ~
Other potash-bearing substances 9,403 ~
Total 624,078 tons
Much the greater part is low-grade
(20 p.c. to 30 p.c. potash) manure salts,
full of impurities, particularly the chloride
of magnesium—there is no pure chloride.
In Germany. 98 p.c. of the muriate pro-
duced for local use is used for the manu-
facture of other potash salts, whilst only
2 p.c. is used for agricultural purposes as
chloride. As to England (not a potash-
producing country), her preference in potash
for agriculture is in the form of potassium
sulphate and potassium nitrate.
I have used both sulphate and muriate,
and have found that the lowest-priced stuff
is not always the safest, cheapest and best.
THE FUNCTION OF LIME.
“Hortus”: There have been many referen-
ces to this subject in recent “Man on the
Land” pages, but very little explanation as
to what lime really does when applied to
the soil. First and foremost must come the
fact, misunderstood by many, that lime is
not a direct plant food. Calcium is a neces-
sary constituent of plants, but it is very
seldom that there is not enough of this ele-
ment in the soil in one form or another for
that purpose. When lime is applied, there-
fore, it is for a different reason than that
for which ordinary manures are applied.
The most important function of lime is
that of acting as a base to satisfy the re-
quirements of artificial fertilisers. Farmers
should realise that the addition of super-
phosphate or sulphate of ammonia is practi-
cally useless without the presence of carbon-
ate of lime, in just the same way that the
addition of lime is useless when applied
to soil lacking in phospbatic or nitrogenous
manures. Lime in a poor soil might tend to
reduce rather than to increase'the crop yield.
The retention of phosphatic manures is
dependent on the presence of calcium car-
bonate in the soil, and in this connection
A. D. Hall says: “Only carbonate of lime,
or quicklime and slaked lime, which promptly
become carbonate of lime when incorporated
with the soil, are capable of acting as the
required base.” What happens when super,
is applied to the land? The next rain washes
it down in solution, and on its passage down
the diffused phosphate comes in contact with
lime particles (carbonate of lime), on which
it is promptly “precipitated” or rendered in-
soluble (in water). This water-insoluble phos-
phate, however, is easily dissolved by the
plant acids, secreted in the roofs’ and root-
liairs, Thus if it were not for the presence
of lime there would be a great danger of
soluble (in water) phosphate being washed
out of the soil, and so being rendered abso-
lutely useless to the crop. The retention of
ammonium salts or nitrogenous manures is
in exactly the same way dependent on the
presence of a base, such as carbonate of lime.
Another most important function of lime
is that of correcting the acidity of soils.
Whenever there is a considerable amount of
organic matter or humus in a wet soil acids
are formed, and the presence of an available,
easily-attacked base is necessary for their
fixation as a preliminary to the oxidation
work of the soil bacteria. Micro-organisms
create the acid condition, and the soil in
such a condition would be no longer con-
genial to their existence were it not for
the presence of carbonate of lime, which
affords the necessary base and leads to the
more rapid decay of organic matter and the
consequent release of plant food. The bac-
teria may be present in a slightly-acid soil,
but it is a known fact that root nodules do
not form well under such conditions.
THE GOAT-SHEEP CROSS.
“Bad Australian”: The goat has been the
battler’s friend from the days of the first
settlement of Australia, providing the early
pioneers, the men of ’52 and the dwellers in
the barren lands with milk, “mutton” and
bedding on an absolute minimum of feed.
As far as I am aware the people most con-
cerned have been quite satisfied to regard
the animal as plain goat quite devoid of
possibilities of improvement, and no attempt
appears to have been made to convert him
into anything more useful.
The mating of a male goat with a ewe
will produce an animal resembling the dam
in all respects except in the wool, which is
much coarser and stiffer than that of the
sheep, and, strange as it may appear, the
offspring of the union will breed as readily
as the parents. The goat-sheep cross is
common in the mountainous parts of South
America, where they are known as “cab-
ranos,” and I have seen them in greater or
less numbers on both sides of the Cordillera
from Magallanes to Titicaca. The breeding
of cabranos appears to be confined to the
rough, barren regions where their chief
food consists of low, stunted scrub and a
thin, coarse grass, on which they seem to
thrive as well as the pure-bred goats. The
natives weave the wool into ponchos, rugs,
caps, saddle- and pack-bags and a coarse
cloth. The milk makes an excellent cheese,
and the carcase, although rather small, is
quite as good eating as ordinary mutton.
SALTBUSH IN THE OLD WORLD.
Dear Bulletin, — 1 got back from a long
wandering last week. After we left the
Houtman at Singapore we went through
the F.M.S., Siam and French Indo-China;
then to France, where we spent most of our
time.
For some years I have had doubts about
saltbush being a purely Australian plant.
I had seen it, I felt sure, in Brittany grow-
ing near the sea; in the south of France,
along the coast, rrom Marseilles to Monte
Carlo; and inland in Morocco, around Mar-
rakech. But whenever I mentioned my
doubts to Australians I became at once less
popular.
However, from St. Raphael, in the south
of France, I this time sent a sample ot the
saltbush to a London friend, a member of
the Linnean Society. His answer was:
“Your sample belongs to the Atriplew hali-
mus. It is a native of the Mediterranean
region. Some of it has been found also in
Christchurch, Hants, and in the Isle of
Wight, England. Refer to Lloyd’s ‘Flora of
the West of France,’ p. 294.” The Atriphx
halimoidcs is, of course, our Australian salt-
bush—or, rather, one of our saltbushes. —
Yours, Paul Wenz.
THE “SANDED” HORSE.
“Bunyip”: Most farmers know that run-
ning horses on sparsely-grassed sand plain
for any length of time is a risky pro-
cedure, but 1 doubt whether it is generally
known that horses bred on sandy country
seldom, if ever, pick up sand to an in-
jurious extent. When a horse loses con-
dition rapidly and commences to mope away
from its fellows it is a pretty sure indica-
tion that he is sanded.
A good system of treatment is to first
give the affected animal a small bottle of
castor oil, and after this has taken effect
a bran-and-treaele mash, this latter effect-
ively carrying away all remaining sand.
It is advisable to keep the animal from water
till it shows signs of improvement, and even
then water must be given sparingly.
To prevent a repetition of the complaint
the animal must be transferred to well-
grassed country, or must be stable-fed until
natural feed improves.
MEAT OR WOOL?
Ever since the days of John Macarthur
and Samuel Marsden we have bad rivalry
between the growers of wool and the growers
of meat. Marsden claimed that the most
profitable sheep would be found to be the
one that combined wool and meat in the
best balance. Macarthur went bald-headed
for wool, arguing that you cannot get the
best of either when you go for both. Aus-
tralia has room for both class of breeders.
The agriculturist will usually find that he
should follow Marsden; the grazier that he
should believe Macarthur. On farming areas
and with good fences crossbreds are best.
The man with a large area of land that is
not suitable for the plough will generally
do best with merinos, and those of a class
in which wool-growing has not been sacri-
ficed for carcase. For the breeders of
merinos to endeavor to compete with the
mutton breeds, as some are inclined to do,
is disastrous to Australia’s greatest asset
—her wool clip. All that should be done
by any merino breeder is to get the frame
and constitution that will carry the greatest
amount of good wool in average seasons, with
some capacity to stand a dry spell.
BIG HEAD IN RAMS.
“J.L.H.”: An old disease in sheep has
lately cropped up again, especially in South
Australia —there has also been a case in
Queensland. This is “big head.” There is
no mistaking the symptoms. The head swells
to an enormous size and general emaciation
follows. Pathologists have proved that the
disease is caused by a germ, and that it is
infectious. All animals so attacked should
be isolated and the foreheads treated with
a hypodermic injection of 1 part percbloride
of mercury to 1000 parts water —three


Broad welt.. dark
tan upper.
A stout sole running in even
thickness right from toe to heel
greatly increases the durability
of this Abbey shoe—made of the
best-grade calf. The toe is flat
and roomy, the sides low-cut. At
the lacing, the upper curves to
lie easily over the instep arch.
POSTAL ORDERS: Specify both
width and size—narrow, medium
and wide fittings are available in
all full and half-sizes. Ask also
for a supply of the correct Abbey
Tan Polish (6d. per tin).
Dark Tan Calf . . 50/-
F.nlarged Catalogue of Men’s, Women’s
and Children’s Footwear post Free on
request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St..
ppl 120 SYDNEY
&
-a
X
Youthful Charms
Enhanced By Cuticura
Soap and Ointment. Regular use
of the Soap, assisted by the Ointment
as needed, will keep the complexion
fresh, clear and youthful and the hair
live and healthy. Cuticura Talcum
is fragrant, cooling and refreshing, an
ideal toilet powder.
ls.. Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
Zs. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint t«ns ... 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
POST FREE O.V FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
THE
SHAVE
PLOUGH
Shave s Patent Stump-jump
Reversible Disc Plough.
For full particulars apply to the
manufacturers or any agent.
(New Booklet just issued.)
Interstate and Overseas Agents:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd.,
Miller’s Point, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
W. Y. Scrutton,
34 North Terrace West, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND:
Clark & Fauset,
Eagle Street, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
H. J. Wigmore, Ltd.,
Wellington Street, Perth.
TASMANIA:
W. Hart & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
Charles Street, Launceston.
J. H. Stutterd,
Wynyard.
H. G. Buchanan,
10 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND:
M. Steinberg,
Box 893, Wellington.
SOUTH AFRICA:
Mangold Bros., Ltd.,
Port Elizabeth.
Manufactured by
CHANDLERS iIL-
Flinders Lane, Melbourne;
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy;
Lava Street, Warrnambool;
Hargreaves Street, Bendigo,
Victoria.
CAPTAIN
CRAB
SELECTED
SPECIALLY
PLEASES HOSTESS AND VISITORS
ALIKE
lOOK AT ALU
RECIFE-BOOK
GROCERS
FREE
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED
A.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £250,000
ALL CLASSES OF INSURANCE EFFECTED.
Probate Disability, Extended Insurance, Non-Forfeiture,
Hospital, Medical and Nurse’s Fees Combined.
Make the event which causes the tax create the cash to pay the tax.
HEAD OFFICE: Hunter House, 26 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
McLEAN, Managing Director. R. V. BOOTH, Secretary.
INQUIRIES INVITED.
DO YOU WANT TO EARN MORE MONEY?
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life. A profession in
which competition is limited and which offers wonderful opportunities if you have any ability
and are persevering. Our tuition gives opportunities to students not to be found elsewhere.
Write for our booklet, telling of positions, salaries and fees, to-day. Start your new career NOW.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND AND FINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY. Also at WAGGA & HENTY, LONDON, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE.
Auction Sales j WOOL, FAT STOCK, GRAIN, SHEEPSKINS,
Throughout the Year 1 HIDES, TALLOW, FURRED SKINS, etc.
Cash Advances on Pastoral Properties and Stock, Wool, Grain and Produce.
Offices: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney. JAMES KIDD, General Manager for Australia.
injections at intervals of a month. The
Department of Agriculture in South Aus-
tralia is now at work on the preparation of
a vaccine.
WHY MAKE MILK THE TEST?
“E. 11.5.”: Wherever the dairying indus-
try has assumed dimensions of any import-
ance in Australia there has been a corres-
ponding falling off in beef production, due
to crossing our original heavyweight cattle
with the Jersey and similar lightweight
strains. Whatever benefits may have accrued
to the dairying industry from the intro-
duction of these animals, it has had the
disastrous effect of converting our once fine
herds of cattle into mobs of undersized, non-
descript mongrels. The baneful influence of
the so-called “milking-strain” bulls was
immediately apparent in their progeny,
which were regarded as of so little value as
potential beef-producers that it was cus-
tomary to destroy the males immediately
after birth, and many thousands have been
sacrificed during the last 20 years. But
it required many years’ careful selection and
much culling before herds showing a good
average production of milk of a fairly high
butter content were established, and even
now there are many herds that could be
vastly improved by further culling. As the
ability to produce large quantities of high-
grade milk is not peculiar to any breed, but
belongs to the individual, it would appear
that if the original heavyweight breeds had
been retained and an intelligent system of
selection and breeding adopted and persisted
in, our herds would now be composed of
animals which could be regarded with satis-
faction by dairyman and butcher alike.
WATER FOR DRY AREAS.
“Curlew”: In the lighter rainfall areas
and in parts where good rainfalls are ex-
perienced but where lengthened dry spells
occur, it is not unusual for farmers to be
in dire straits for want of water. In the
older settled districts, particularly where the
rainfall is normally good, there is absolutely
no excuse for this. In the lighter rainfall
areas, especially in soils of a loose nature,
water conservation is a harder matter. The
Victorian Water Supply Commission has
channels thousands of miles in length con-
veying water for irrigation and water supply
purl>o,sos. But there are parts where, owing
» the sandy nature of the soil or higher
levels, it is impracticable to take channel
water. Experience shows that open storage
of such water as can be stored is barely
sufficient for 12 months’ supply of a farm,
•though a covered tank of a quarter the capa-
city is sufficient owing to lessened loss by
evaporation.
The Victorian Water Supply Depart-
ment's tanks, recently erected, are an object-
lesson in water conservation in the drier
areas. _ Sloping ground is graded and plain
galvanised-iron laid down. Chief-Engineer
Kenyon recommends a catchment area and
storage tank sufficient for a three-years’ sup-
ply for, say, six persons at five gallons daily ;
10 horses at 25 gallons; 2 cows at 8 gallons;
and 150 sheep at 14 gallons. The catch-
ment area covers 20,000 square feet, and
with the covering of the storage tank (2100
sq. ft.), and house- and shed-roofs (2500 sq.
ft.), eight tons of galvanised-iron, costing
about £240, are required. Concrete lining
for the tank and the necessary labor costs
about £100; roof-framing, £2O; roof iron, 1
ton, £80; pump, labor for roofing etc.,
about £9O; or a total cost of £4BO. This
provides an iron catchment area of 26,000
sq. ft. and a tank, concreted and then faced
with bitumen, 84ft. x 24ft. at surface, 9ft.
deep and 66ft. x 6ft. at the bottom. The
tank roof is supported on 4in. x lfin. steel
joists spanning the tank. The whole is
securely fenced, allowing a chain margin
for tree planting to prevent drift sand and
to give protection from winds. Experience
has proved that it pays.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
What is the best method of computing the
cubic contents of a dam? —9644.
(1) Multiply together top length and
breadth; multiply together bottom length
and breadth. Add these two products to-
gether. (2) Add top length to bottom length.
Add top breadth to bottom breadth and mul-
tiply these two products together. (3) Add
together the totals obtained in (1) and (2),
multiply result by height and divide product
by six.
Will white ants attach and destroy pota-
toes when growing, and, if so, what is the
remedy? —9s9s. 1
On rare occasions white ants have been
recorded attacking potatoes in the field. It
is not their normal habit, however, and there
are no records of them causing any exten-
sive damage to potato crops. If control mea-
sures are necessary we suggest frequent
cultivation as deep as possible and the use
of paradichlorobenzine as a soil fumigant.
To apply the latter, make a narrow furrow
three to four inches deep about 9 to 12
inches out from the plants on both sides of
the row, and scatter the material along this
at the rate of loz. per four feet and fill in
the trench again. It would be advisable to
try this on a limited area, say, 10 plants,
as the exact dosage for use on potatoes has
riot been determined. When the potato crop
has been removed, a careful search should
be made for any timber buried in the soil,
or any hidden stumps or roots, as these may
be sources of infestation. Any white-ant
nests in the vicinity should be destroyed.
How should I plant pawpaw? —963o.
Seeds are planted in boxes or seed-beds
under partial shade in early spring, and the
young plants are put out when from Bin. to
12in. high, the foliage, except the young
undeveloped crowns, being removed, allowing
part of the petiole or leaf stalk to remain.
Where plants are grown subject to the in-
fluences of shade, this should be removed
several days prior to transplanting, and
water should be withheld, but applied liber-
ally just prior to removing, so that the roots
may be mutilated as little as possible. In
addition to fertility and good drainage, a
soil containing a liberal proportion of humus
favors development. No applications of fer-
tilisers to light soils can maintain equal
results. Liability or otherwise to frost
should be considered in respect to location,
for there are few cultivated plants more sus-
ceptible to frost. In planting the possibility
of numerous male plants is present. The
effect to a great extent may be minimised
by including in place of one plant two in
close proximity, and subsequently removing
one when the sex is determinable. If both
are males they should be discarded, male
trees being entirely superfluous. Six feet
apart is a reasonable distance for planting,
but an additional two feet can be added.
From nine to ten feet should be allowed be-
tween rows.
What are the symptoms of brown spot in
passion-fruit, and what control measures
should be adopted? —964s.
The symptoms are first evident on the
leaves and shoots. Small circular brown
spots appear on the leaves; these spots
gradually enlarge and may become more or
less irregular in outline. A dark green
border, which later turns dark brown, de-
velops around the spots, and this band
surrounds a central area of light brown
dead tissue, while in the centre of the area
there is usually a small white or greyish
spot. More or less elongated discolored
spots whjch may open up and form cankers,
in which the underlying woody tissue is ex-
posed, appear on the stem. In some cases
the laterals are completely girdled, result-
ing in the death of the parts above the
girdle. Shoots when affected wither and
die back. Small, somewhat brown spots with
eccentric markings appear on the fruit. (2j
Although attempts have been made to con-
trol the disease by spraying, no measure
has ever been satisfactory because it is prac-
tically impossible to apply the spray to all
parts of a vine in luxuriant growth. Vines
should not be planted too closely, and
although the distances will depend largely
on local conditions, tliey should be such as
to permit as much open growth as possible.
Diseased fruit and primings should be imme-
diately removed and destroyed.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Bufforp”: Don’t use sawdust for hens’
nests if there is any chance of it getting
wet. It contains acid which is harmful to
the egg and stains the shell. Bacteria pene-
trate damp shells quickly and soon affect
the condition of the contents. The safest
and most hygienic nesting materials are pure
sand or fine shell-grit.
“E.IT.”: Before putting cabbage, onion,
cauliflower or beetroot-seed in heavy soils,
dig in a few shovelfuls of sand. It will
make the soil free and also help to break it
up. The sand works its way down to the
subsoil, and, if the latter is clay, aids
drainage.
“Will Seer”: A very efficacious poultry
spice is made by intimately mixing 141 b.
each blood meal and linseed meal, and then
adding Boz. each salt, flowers of sulphur,
and finely-ground charcoal, 2oz. of cayenne
pepper, loz. each sulphate of iron, saltpetre
and Epsom salts, and 4oz. ground ginger.
A second-hand coffee-mill is used to grind
the mixture fine, and one ounce is used
weekly in the mash of each 100 birds through
the winter, the dose being toned down to
one ounce fortnightly in the spring and
autumn, and to one ounce monthly during
the summer months.
“Trepex”: A reasonable and justifiable
request has been made by the Victorian and
South Australian Woolbuyers’ Associations.
They have asked that the station-mark on
bales of wool be kept as simple as possible,
and especially that complex figures be
avoided. The matter is not vastly important,
but a distinctive mark has to be written or
printed a good many times after it leaves the
owner’s care, and a good deal of time and
labor is lost by having to make copies in
multiple of complex brands. Thus letters
reversed, conjoined, upside down or on their
side, so frequently met with, are a great
nuisance. Worse still are peculiar geomet-
rical figures enclosing initials, squares,
oblongs, circles, diamonds and the like. The
name of the property from which the wool
comes and the owner’s initials above it is
all that is necessary.
“Pick” : To lighten the labor and expedite
the job when burning off big logs in forest
clearings, leave off slaving with the axe and
make fire do the length-cutting. At inter-
vals cross the logs with smaller and easily
handled sticks, and against these light your
fires. Keep the fires going and have cross-
burners doing duty on every fallen log in
the area to be cleared. Simultaneously all
the logs will be burned into easily shiftable
lengths, and they then may be piled together
with the cant-hook and lever, and consumed
in a heap.
“W.M.F.”: Before placing a new gal-
vanised-iron tank on its stand wash it out
with a strong solution of common washing-
soda. This will not only improve the quality
of the drinking water but also considerably
lengthen the life of the tank. Also, having
put up a new roof or galvanised-iron shed,
let it weather for at least six months before
applying paint. The object in both cases is
to neutralise the effect of the acids used in
galvanising.
“Silen”: In a district in which late frosts
occur a good dodge in planting vegetable
seeds is to collect all the jam-tins you can,
put them in the fire to melt the solder from
the joints and remove the bottoms. Tie the
tins together again with string, fill them with
good soil and place them in a shallow box
with a few inches of gravelly soil for drain-
age. Plant your seeds one in each tin. When
the danger of frost is past, take the tins
to the beds, untie the strings and trans-
plant into the beds. Vegetables handled in
this way come on in record time.
“Two Seas”: The continual spread of
noxious weeds is getting so serious that
unless the P. P. boards take hold of the job
of suppressing them hundreds of thousands
of acres of N.S.W. grazing country will soon
he useless. The shire councils are supposed to
attend to the job, but their officials seldom
go off the main roads where their work lies.
The best men for reporting upon noxious
weeds are the rabbit inspectors, w-ho are
always poking about the paddocks. They
would detect the “odd one or two” tobacco
bush, khaki weed, etc., that, when neglected
by careless owners, soon infest the whole
district —in some cases to such an extent
that to eradicate the curse would cost
more than the land is worth. It is the odd
one that must be suppressed, and the shire
councils are not in a position to track it to
its laip.


+; '
to*
\
v
w-
m a
-
i
■
. ■
i ■>:-
* -;.-,%sj*
;•>' • .•
'
TOBI,
J
mmm?*
nS>, i l ‘
■■■
%
' •• :
wm*
.
-
3K
/•
s
,
E&i
A FEW OUTSTANDING
FEATURES OF THE
OUTSTANDING
CHEVROLET.
New Six-cylinder, Fully-
enclosed Valve-in-head
Engine.
New Petrol Pump and
Filter.
New Accelerating Pump
on Carburettor .
New Improved Four-wheel
Brakes.
New Twin-beam Head-
lamps.
New Radiator of Pleasing
Design.
New Instrument Panel.
Four Hydraulic Shock-
absorbers.
Warranted for
One Year.
Buy from Your
Local Dealer.
A SIX IN THE- PRICE-


ė
ę
BECAUSE sixteen years of steady progress have culminated in world leadership)
because over three million owners testify to Chevrolet dependability, the world
will accept the statement that Chevrolet has now built what was never before
achieved —a six in the price range of the four.
But only on the road can you realise the features of the Outstanding Chevrolet.
Come in and take the wheel. Thrill to its power; its flashing acceleration; its speed.
Study the smoothness of its silent engine. See how safe, how positive, how quiet are its
four-wheel brakes.
Enjoy its light, sure steering; its smoothness. Observe how scientific springing and
hydraulic shock absorbers make travel smooth on the potholed patches.
Take it out—try it out. You will drive back convinced that here is the motor-car
sensation of the year.
Qtfie
Outstanding Chevrolet
of Chevrolet History
Metropolitan Distributors:
MELBOURNE: Lane’s Motors Pty., Ltd., Exhibition Street. SYDNEY: J. McGrath, Ltd., Elizabeth Street. BRISBANE: Metropolitan Motors, Ltd..
Adelaide Street. ADELAIDE: Mann’s Motors, Ltd., Franklin Street. PERTH: Skipper Bailey Motors Co., Ltd., Hay Street.
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY., LTD,
Melbourne Sydney Brisbane Adelaide Perth
.ANGE-
OF THE FOUR


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets.
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Risk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
I J
/V
/x.„
-*\/
it
J '-.
v--. k .V-**'- - -- ••
e?/a
”1
t SB. V,—
i xS
‘7/5 Quality Never Changes.
1/9 per 2oz. Tin.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
M&—
worn.
ARE SURE KILLERS
Wholesale Representatives :
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY, LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE, Cl.
SMOKE-OH!
Overcoming aviation difficulties in Aus-
tralia is not all ’plane sailing.
* *
Charlie Chaplin has announced that he
will never appear in a talking picture. It
is where he differs from our Mr. Hughes,
who refuses to figure in anything else.
ON THE SEA OF MATRIMONY.
“I wonder why she married him. He’s so painfully
thin.”
“He looked to her like the last straw, I suppose.”
Certain Sydney people seem to have gone
cuckoo over the kookooburra.
•Y *
“In the intensity of his hate he was prepared
to wait 40 years for his vengeance.”—Storyteller.
A case of “the more hate, the less speed.”
* *
"" “He’ll go fur, all right,” said Mrs. Carpet-
Snake proudly as she saw her young hopeful
swallow a kangaroo-rat.
An Australian religious organisation has
appointed a committee to consider means of
preventing the increase in divorces. For-
getting, apparently, that even a king once
failed to stem the rush of the tied.
* *
Sydneyites who refrain from throwing
tram-tickets on the streets are not the only
people who have tickets on themselves.
* *
“I saw that Australians could help them-
selves,” said Rear-Admiral Kerr during a
press interview. And, if it were not for the
police, some would do a lot more of it.
* ¥
IKEYATANCHOR.
.The boy stood on the burning deck
(Old Ikcy was his sire);
Striving to stop those fool sea-waves
From putting out the fire.
* *
It was announced before the Italian elec-
tions : “Votes will only be allowed to those
who produce.” And the candidates had to
be pro-Duce.
* *
STRATEGY.
I drove a golf-ball into the air;
It fell to earth I know not where.
So I deftly dropped one on the green,
And was down in four —to Brown’s fourteen.
D.
* *
“Canoeists have taken three weeks to cover 3f>
miles of rapids on the Wollondilly River.”
It shows you the difference between miles
Sf rapids and rapid miles.
* *
In Melbourne a naval man was convicted
of stealing a carpet-sweeper. No doubt had
Van Tromp lived in our day he would have
been puzzled whether to tie a Eureka or an
Electrolux to the mast.
Douglas Mawson is having alterations
made to the Discovery which will render
her more fitted for her job. There is a rumor
that Melba has cabled Douglas asking if
alterations of a like nature could be made to
some of hers.
Advice given to young parsons by a speaker
at the recent Methodist Conference in Mel-
bourne: “If you want to keep your heads
above water, don’t let the grass grow under
your feet.” But it is rash to dogmatise on
such matters. An equally clear-headed guide
in spiritual matters has said, and found none
to challenge him: “The road to ruin is paved
with lost souls who, in hitching their wag-
gons to stars, have got out of their depths.”
* *
WAITING FOR NEW ONES .TO GROW.
When some girls smile you’re apt to say
'Glow vci'y nice for kissing!”
When my. girl smiles I turn away —
Her four front teeth are missing.
O’ Beau.
¥ *
HOW IT REALLY HAPPENED.
Potiphar v. Potiphar, Joseph co-re., was
the cause cdldbrc of its day in Egypt. The
Heliopolis Divorce Court was besieged by
fashionable people, some of whom had come
in luxurious chariots from their country
houses ns far up the river as Khartoum.
Society women—many of them members of
PRO TEM.
CLAIRE: “Well, I’m engaged to Jack.”
MARIE: “You don’t mean it, do you?”
CLAIRE: “Of course I don’t, but it’s such fun while it
lasts.”
the rather raffish Potipliar set —predomi-
nated, and, despite the shocked appeals of
his Honor Mr. Justice Tutankahmen, braz-
enly retained their seats in the public gal-
lery during the worst of the evidence.
The interest in their deplorable affair
was not confined to Egypt’s Smart Set. The
National Film Corporation of Los Babylon,
where wireless reports were received daily,
cabled an offer to the fair respondent to
appear in a talkie at a fee of 1,000,000
talents, and there were some tempting vaude-
ville offers from rising colonial townships
such as Londonium-on-Thames.
A cross-charge of drunkenness brought by
the wife inspired Sheik Osiris Berlin to
write a comic song which became a great
favorite in night-club circles. “Oh, Mr.
‘Potty’ Phar !” was the name, and the tune
resembled that of the “Red Sea Blues.”
The vast wealth of the elderly petitioner
(acquired by selling paper saddles and spav-
ined horses to his fellow-countrymen during
the war with the H'yksos) rendered the case
a harvest for the lawyers. Ptolemy, K.C.,
whose brief was marked at 5000 talents, led
for the petitioner, while the respondent
relied on Ammon-el-Ra, K.C. —knotvji affec-
tionately in the Cairo Wazzir as “the Mud-
slinger.”
Potiphar stated in evidence that his sus-
picions had been first awakened by the
discovery of the co-respondent (a handsome
young servant of foreign extraction) in Mrs.
Potiphar’s boudoir minus most of his clothes.
The lady’s explanation was that Joseph—
the only really satisfactory charioteer they
had ever had—had given her notice, and
that, in an effort to detain and reason with
him, she had grasped his clothing and torn
some of it off. There was loud laughter in
court (instantly suppressed by the Judge)
at this story, and the hilarity was resumed
when it reached the bazaars. It supplied
matter for the comic papers for months.
The co-re.’s past life was quoted against
him. It was shown that he had been
notorious in Israel for the flashness of his
apparel, and there was a suggestion from
Ptolemy, K.C., that he was the originator
of multi-colored sweaters. “What about the
color of plaintiff’s nose?” snarled Ammon-
el-Ra, K.C. But all such forensic wit was
of no avail. Potiphar got his decree, with
costs against Joseph, who went to gaol for
non-payment.
The cell of Joseph’s prison overlooked the
Nile Racing Club’s course, and Joseph, ever
a sportsman, made a study of the morning
gallops. He passed his tips on to the gover-
nor of the gaol, thus winning the latter’s
favor, and his fame eventually reached
Pharaoh. Pharaoh’s win in the Port Said
Cup. whereby Ike Moses, the leading Suez
penciller, was practically bankrupted, is old
book-making history. Joseph was freed and
given a high position in Pharaoh's stable.
He was in charge on the historic occasion
when Lean Kine won the Nile Doncaster and
the stable “cleaned up” in something over
six figures. After this coup Joseph never
looked back.
Potiphar, caught for the full costs that
Joseph had failed to pay, was obliged to
sequestrate his estate, and died eventually in
a sordid East Memphis lodging-house from
over-indulgence in methylated spirits. His
wife went into vaudeville, was billed as
“The Woman Who Loved Joseph,” married
a young squatter who had a place on one ot
the up-river irrigation blocks, earned a
D.B.E. for rescue work amongst Girl Guides,
and was given a column-long obituary notice
in the Luxor Guardian.
THE JOHN BALLIOL MUSEUM.
“Barnard Castle is famed for the ruins of a
stately castle built by Barnard, the grandfather of
.lohn Balliol, king of Scotland and a valuable fine
ait museum.” —Sunday Sun.
For those who have not seen the valuables
stored within John Balliol, it
might be mentioned that his
liver—a priceless example of
the. hob-nailed variety and
accused by tradition of caus-
ing many executions —was an
inheritance from a remote an-
cestor. His famous Homicidal
mind is also well worth exami-
nation ; it is said to date back
to the cave-man period.
Agony ads. that somehow never appear:—
Dad. —Home is Heaven without you.
Hooray! Ede.
Mother. —Don’t come back. Baby not fret-
ting. All managing well. Miss your nagging.
Bill.
Minnie. —No use your writing—won't
reply. Nothing forgiven. Have put a lodger
in your room. Mum.
Anyone finding miniature Pekinese
(“Beauty” on collar) may keep or. better
still, poison same. He is hated by all who
know him. Dog-loather.
Gent wishes meet lady, senile, wealthy,
must guarantee die within year. View mat.
Desperate.
* ¥
No answer was received when England was
called on the radio telephone from Australia.
The line appears to be functioning normally
at last.
RELEASING THE CLUTCH.
“Shocking! Their father hadn’t been dead
two days before those girls bought a
motor-car!”
“Hum! Joyrides, eh?”
Alleged about a Sydney divorce respondent
that he was carrying on with eight women.
A regular woman eighter.
# *
AMENDED VERSION.
Oh, don’t you remember sweet Alice, Ben
Bolt—
The girl that you walked with on Sun-
days?
The hanky whose wave gave your heart such
a jolt
Now maketh the whole of her undies.
Euroclydox.
THEN AND NOW.
Here's a book of engravings of lingerie
Depicting the fashions of ’73.
A matron who looks like a rose fall-blown
Is here in these yellowing pages shown.
She'd sail down a ballroom, in sailor's phrase,
‘"Hard to steer as a ship in stays!”
Hustle behind and corsage swelling —
These were the points she'd think most
telling!
For lacing was tight and waists were wee
'Mongst the opulent dames of ’73.
But, oh, for the joys of a thrilling whirl
With a corsctted hundredweight of girl.
She was armed for adventure cap-d-pie,
This mail-clad charmer of ’73;
jls you took the floor you’d shyly feel
A waist that was ramparted round with steel.
Ah, the days of the flounce and the furbelow
And the fortified maids of long ago!
The lissom lassie of ’29
Is built with the classical Grecian line,
Straight as a dart from top to toe —
You only guess where the waist should go!
Her breathing's deep and her lungs arc sound
And devil a bit of tier’s muscle-bound!
Yes, the girl of to-day we all agree
Knocks spots off the maiden of ’73
For she’s more like the girl God meant her
to be
Than the one we worshipped in ’73!
J. A. P.
FEEDING WILLIAM J—.
I am not an envious character. God
forbid! Jealousy, “the burning snarl,” as
someone has called it, is an affliction I have
always dreaded. But it is
difficult for a physical weak-
ling, who is no particular
prophet in his own flat, to
view with composure the
case of one whom I shall
call William J—, of Wool-
loomooloo.
There is the man’s superb
health and appetite. My
authority is his wife. If I
were to consume, in any one
week, as much as four
pounds of meat I would be
regarded by my household
as a monster; William’s
allowance, year in year out,
is 211 b. a week! And he
will have nothing but the
best. In Mrs. J.’s words:
“lie tried rump steak, but
it was too tough for his
taste. He now lias fillet, of
which he eats lib. every
morning for breakfast.
Nor is his fastidiousness
confined to food. Take the
matter of quilts. She got
him a honeycomb. He
spurned it. “And so,” iu
her simple phrase, “I got
him a marcella.” My wife
bought me an art quilt at a
bargain sale for 12s. 6d. If
William’s wife so far forgot
herself as to put such a
thing on his bed, she would,
no doubt, get a sound thrash-
ing. But, of course, he is in
no danger. It might put him
off his food, and that would
be the supreme tragedy. “I
would as soon send him out
on a breakfast of marmite as
on one of porridge and eggs,”
“Save in food and spend on
doctors,” “Eat well, sleep
well” are examples of her
bright sayings.
You can hear her scintil-
lating any day between ten
and four in the Sydney In-
dustrial Court, where Justice
Piddington is inquiring into the N.S.W.
basic wage.
10-2-4.
THE CHARITY WORKER.
Every street-derelict gets a
donation from her, and every
starving mongrel a feed. She
organises soup kitchens and
welfare leagues by the dozen,
and much of her time is taken
up succoring slum children
and assisting their parents.
I called to see her husband
the other night, lie had just
finished darning his socks, and
was about to patch his child
Willie’s pants preparatory to
getting the dinner ready. “The
wife’s late to-night,” lie said
lugubriously. “She has had a
big day helping the neglected
families of Surry nills!”
DORIC.


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service* a la Carte
STRICTLY FTRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive FoLler
SlMllLligp
lIuJjl!!
[j
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
E. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager- 1 -!!. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Fedeial Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Backing Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Monday to
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
Prom 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/*
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’HSte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 12/6; or
a la carte, minimum, 12/6
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 6.30, 5/-
The Ambassadors New Delightful
Dance Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
A ROGUE IN AMBER
By- J.B. COOPER.
Illustrations by-Percy LiKcJsoy.
Synopsis : Implicated in Paris in
the murder of the Baroness Bellarosa,
Saccaco, a ’Neapolitan, escapes,
leaving his co-criminal, Francois
Neigre, in gaol. Twenty years later
he is in Australia with his wife Jean
nette and their daughter Marie,
who exchanges impassioned letters with
Gerald Deacon. Gerald’s father, be-
fore his death, wished his son to marry
Betty Calcroft, a Mildura girl, who,
however, is loved by Jack Carew, a
farmer. Saccaco is now under the
name of Carducci, making money by
any means; and in Melbourne Marie
sits as model to Edward Felspar, an
artist, who had married in Paris, but
whose girl-wife had left him. Felspar
had received a certificate of her death,
but this Carducci steals. Shifting to
Sydney, Carducci becomes partner in
a shop, and is recognised by Neigre,
who had been a convict at Noumea.
Felspar, in proposing to Betty, who
is in Melbourne with her relations, the
Clintons, misses the certificate. Betty
rejects him, but he mentions the loss
to Clinton, who communicates with
the Parisian police. Gerald, who has
been in England, returns, and has a
horse entered for Melbourne races. In
Sydney Neigre makes Carducci sup-
port him from fear of exposure, and
there Marie recognises a woman who
is with Neigre from a painting Felspar
revered in his studio. The woman
admits that she had married Felspar,
and Neigre insists that Carducci must
give him the certificate.
THE death certificate was in a notebook
that was in an inside pocket of Car-
ducci’s waistcoat. Both waistcoat and
pocket were buttoned. Neigre made a
gesture with his right hand that suggested
tearing open the bulging garment.
Carducci seized the hand, and what
started in half-play ended in a struggle.
Carducci tried to draw his knife, but
Neigre held his hands. Swaying and
scrambling, they upset the table, and
bottles, glasses and lighted lamp crashed
together upon the floor.
Every tenant in the lodging-house heard
the banging of their bodies on the floor,
and the smashing of the glass. Lisette, one
storey up, undressed and in bed, realised
there was a fight, in progress between her
man and Carducci. In a flash she knew
that Francois had been taken at a dis-
advantage, or the Italian would have been
doubled up at once by “La Savate.” Hastily
rising and still in her chemise de nuit, she
hurried down the main staircase. Reaching
the room wherein the men still struggled,
she screamed for help. Already the tenants
were crowding into the narrow hall with
lighted candles and lamps in their hands.
Every one of them believed that Carducci
was murdering his wife and daughter, and
that Lisette’s screams came from one or
the other of those two women.
Lisette continued to scream.
“Make that woman shut up,” cried the
porter. “She’ll bring the police here.”
Lisette got such a sharp and sudden
smack on the cheek from someone that she
stopped screaming, too astonished to con-
tinue.
The lights revealed that the two men
had arrived at a pass when neither could
let go of the other without danger from a
knife thrust or strangulation by a garrotte.
Neigre said he would release his strangle-
hold on the half-choked Carducci if some-
one secured the Italian’s knife. The porter
took the knife from the sheath in Car-
ducci’s belt, and warned him not to make
any trouble. The two men stood on their
feet. Neigre stepped back and remained
alert, watching every movement of the
Italian, who did not appear to have much
fight left in him.
An angry tenant kept suggesting to the
porter that the one and only sensible course
to follow when two foreigners were strangling
and knifing each other was to call in the
police.
“Not on your life!” said the porter.
“These two foreign gentlemen ain’t been
really fighting They had too much ‘pinky’
and got arguing, and that’s all there’s in it.
Now git!”
Lisette, more composed now that she
knew Carducci’s weight had not crushed
Francois to death, took her husband’s arm
and together they went upstairs. When
the door of their room was shut she asked:
“What caused the fight?”
“Your death certificate,” her husband re-
plied, “and the black swine still has it!”
Chapter XII.
In the mental anxieties that disturbed
Felspar, the sympathetic attitude of Betty
towards him was very helpful. Her sane
and cheerful outlook ameliorated the de-
sponding view he took of his past and his
future. His admiration and rapidly-increas-
ing love for Betty led him into the mis-
take of translating her womanly sympathy
into a very deep regard for him, which he
thought was on the border-line of love.
“Carducci seized the hand, and what started in half-play ended in a struggle.”
He had not known her long enough to
discern that she had a genius for friend-
ship. What Felspar felt was the magnetism
of her personality, but he did not under-
stand the extent of it. Dozens of others
had experienced the same attraction. Even
women had been jealous of each other in
their desire to occupy the first place in
her esteem. The thought never filtered
through to the artist’s troubled brain that
the sterling qualities of Betty were known
to dozens of her friends. Really he thought
he had “discovered” her, whereas he had
only discovered
w h a t was
known to many
people in Mil-
dura among
them Jack
Carew.
Betty’s brain was keener than Felspar’s.
She was not at any time to be stampeded
into a hasty decision. Her father estimated
her capacities more correctly than her
mother did. Had her mother understood
Betty’s mentality, and how it guided and
curbed her daughter’s impulses, she might
have abandoned her dearly-loved role of
matchmaker. Calcroft saw the true posi-
tion, and felt sure that Betty would make
her own choice of a husband.
His brother-in-law Clinton thought so,
too. He was inclined to think her choice
had fallen on Felspar. He himself be-
lieved that such a marriage would turn out
happily. At the time he formed that
opinion he, of course, thought Felspar was
a bachelor. Since he knew Felspar was a
married man, or widower, Clinton certainly
had made Felspar feel the doubtful position
he was in. He caused Felspar to conjure
up the spectre of his wife, and suggested
to him that she might come forth some day
clothed in living flesh and claim him as
her husband.
The cablegram that was to tell so much
was a long time in arriving. Every even-
ing when Betty’s uncle came home she
asked him if he had any news from Paris,
only to receive the disquieting answer
“No.” At last, however, the cable did
arrive. Clinton opened it and read:
Woman found drowned in Seine, taken
to morgue, was not Lisette Delas Felspar
but her cousin Lisette Delas, known as
“Piquante.” Mistake discovered twelve
months afterwards. Inquiring whereabouts
Lisette Delas Felspar. Will cable further.
Clinton felt now that the one hope that
remained for Felspar was that the next
cable from Paris would bring the news that
Lisette Delas Felspar Was dead. At any
rate, it would bring some finality. He
would know whether the woman was alive
or not. How the mistake had been made
it was idle to surmise. ,It was evident,
however, that Felspar had acted in good
faith, and that he had told a story which
he believed.
Having considered the position from
every point of view that presented itself
to him, Mr. Clinton came to the conclu-
sion that no purpose would be served by
divulging to anybody the contents of the
cablegram before he knew what was in the
one following it. He would take a night
to think over his action, anyhow. The
cable, as it read, would disturb Betty’s
mind, if she had any serious thoughts of
Felspar. He did not want her to be alarmed
unnecessarily. The second cable must
clarify the position. He took the sheet
and placed it in his safe. Then he put on
his hat, went home and commenced garden-
ing to take his mind off the “damned sticky
affair.”
* * * *
When Gerald Deacon went from Mil-
dura to Melbourne, the first of his friends
that he called upon was Betty Calcroft. He
did so with the half-formed intention of
seeing how she was disposed towards him.
He had always felt the charm of Betty’s
winsomeness, but she was not the girl he
was looking for when he was so busy sow-
ing his wild oats. He recalled his father
saying to him on one memorable occasion
that he was “missing his opportunity,” and
he knew when his father said so that he
was referring to the chance he had of win-
ning the “adorable Betty.” Well, Betty
and Marie were
both women, but
they were women
with a difference,
and that was why
at the time he pre-
fer r e and Marie,
though now it
seemed almost
absurd, almost an
insult to Betty, to
link her name with
Marie’s.
When Gerald
saw Betty he real-
ised what a gulf
was set between
them. Friends, pals
they had been in
Mildura, but his
friendship, the pal-
ship, seemed to
have wilted since
they had last seen
each other. In the
presence of Betty
his conquests of
lights o’ love did
not seem to him to
amount to any-
thing. She was
cordial, but Gerald
felt that he did
not make that im-
pression he had
hoped for.
To cover his
chagrin, he told
Betty of the dry
conditions he had
found in the River-
ina, and how stock-
men estimated that
100,000 sheep were travelling on the roads
southward-bound, seeking water and grass.
Jack Carew, he added, was very busy
moving stock, and he did not see him as he,
Gerald, passed through Mildura.
Gerald asked after the Carduccis, and
learnt that they were in Sydney, and that
Marie was finding plenty of work there
as an artist’s model.
But the telling of the latest story of the
horse Gerald had in training occupied most
of the visit. He spoke of weights, trials
and performances of various horses that
had been “asked questions.” It was all
Sanskrit to Betty. She did not trouble to
(Continued on page 55.)


1
I
0
0m
FOURS & SIXES
WILLYS
OVERLAND
Whippet
FOURS AND SIXES
[IP r
_'| HIM --T ~ "■■'-■!■ I
rrA I
r . v* t
»v»v
mm.
m
S
S<ES
A«V
am
ill
IB
i
mm
• •••XV • V
iKB
s»*>***?
y*»o.:.;;
essa
s«
U
K
H
li
*S*»*W.
Vi
1
o
a
BEAUTIFUL.LUXURIOUS, i/ftf LOWPRICED
FINGER-TIP
CONTROL.
A single button starts
the engine, operates the
lights and sounds the
With all its many improvements, with its greater beauty, longer
wheelbase, larger body, new “Finger-tip Control” and higher com-
pression engine, the Superior Whippet is still the world s greatest light
car value.
And the new Superior Whippet Six is the world s lowest-priced
six-cylinder car to offer the important advantages of seven-bearing
crankshaft, “Finger-tip Control,” silent timing chain, full force-feed
lubrication and Nelson type aluminium alloy mvarstrut pistons.
Never have Fours and light Sixes been distinguished by such beauty
and style as are now winning nation-wide praise for the new Superior
Whippet. Its grace of line, its harmony of color, its longer body, its
higher radiator, its sweeping one-piece full-crown mudguards, make
the new Superior Whippet the style triumph of master designers.
LOWER COST OF OPERATION
1


irnm
m
mrnm
a
wmm
M
> % II
m
H
**“ “ ■>.,. ,■ ■• i~i •"voVoAuiVL ui'/ii
■■V■'■■.■ l ■!V.V’■''■■l^
v $
%\v-.v\
%
wmmm.
1
jyPryT'». ■ i ■.'. ■■■"■ •'
- im&g?
K-.'-Xv
v-.-.-.-'.ys'
Mi
( 1
:
«
J
Hi
■w.yw*yt
L
POWERFUL, SPEEDY yet ECONOMICAL
The larger body gives a more spacious interior,
with broader seats and extra leg room. Other
important factors in riding comfort are the over-
size balloon tyres, snubbers, and longer springs
both front and rear.
In performance the new Superior Whippet is
speedier, livelier and more powerful. Long
service will prove its dependability and economi-
cal operation —thirty miles or more to the gallon
is a figure regularly obtained by owners.
See the new Superior Whippet at your nearest
Willys-Overland dealer’s. Order now for early
delivery.
OVERLAND SOUTH
AUSTRALIA, LIMITED,
Franklin Street, Adelaide.
OVERLAND SYDNEY,
LIMITED,
173 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
OVERLAND (VIC.)
PTY., LIMITED,
117-21 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne.
E. G. EAGER & SON,
LIMITED,
Breakfast Creek Road,
Newstead, Brisbane.
ADAMS’ MOTORS,
LIMITED,
442 Murray Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO.,
LIMITED,
53-56 Bathurst Street, Hobart
tPATON) N 2
1
I
iPII


é
m
/
☆
ir*"*.
*+.
i®*-*
* «% J
Mm .-•
■r
> ij 'py ,yj|
- '., v '/ i,; >K
X_
V V
Pi
Hill
-■fp
<s><s■
'ii:'
'i ij
toSffi
!!!!!Hiii!!!!!!!i!i
!i
*
#*««**
Every day the fame of Rexona grows, until it is now
world-wide. Most of all our noted theatrical artistes
are Rexona Girls, for they know how much personal
attractiveness adds to charm, and have learned by
experience that the use of Rexona and Rexona Soap
is the shortest road to health and beauty.
Note what these famous Stars say of Rexona and
Rexona Soap, and if you are not already a user of
the Rexona Products start their use to-day. Rexona
will keep your skin in perfect
condition and free from all
blemishes. Rexona Soap gives
natural beauty to the skin and hair.
“Since arriving
in Australia, 1
have used your
famous Rexona
Soap, and I find
it par excel-
lence, the very
best, for the skin
and hair.”
—Miss
ANNIE CROFT
“Rexona Soap is the lest
soap I have ever come across
for keeping the complexion
and hair in perfect condi-
tion in all climates.”
—Miss ELLEN POLLOCK
“I have been using Rexona
Soap, and, I think it is
simply lovely for the skin
and hair."
KATHRYN REECE
ije iDainty!
©e y[ttmctwe!
Rexona.
0 &kt
“J always use Rexona
Soap. It is undoubtedly
the best for the skin and
hair.”
■—Miss
BERTHA RICCARDO
“J have found Rexona
Soap delightfully re-
freshing, stimulating
and emollient, and
having discovered a
toilet requisite so pre-
cious, I do not intend
ever to he without it
again.”
iLf tss
JUDITH ANDURSON
m
’
A
s
ê
'Rexona Soap
andjjeauiij.


By K.P.M. de Luxe Liners to
JAVA and SUMATRA
T.S.S. NIEUW HOLLAND T.S.S. NIEUW ZEELAND
11,000 Tons
First - class
Return Fares
to Java from
Sydney and
Brisbane:
£Bl
From Melbourne:
£B7
mM
m *
'M*-
H
Li '
HSBpm P*' aw ,-a^.j^i,. •• 4Au
First-class
Return Fares
to Penang and
Belawan (Sum-
atra) from
Sydney:
£99
From Melbourne
£lO5
Largest, fastest and most luxurious Mail Liners, via the Great
Barrier to Macassar (Celebes), Java, Singapore, Penang and
Belawan Deli (Sumatra) direct.
Head Office for Australasia:
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY
(K.P.M. Line),
255 George Street, Sydney.
Buy and wear
WOLSEY
PURE _ WOOL UNDERWEAR
Buy and wear
WOLSEY
LUSTRAL
Art. Silk Under-
wear and Hosiery.
WOLSEY
SPORTSMAN
Knitted Outer-
wear for Women,
Pullovers.
Pure Wool Stocking*
for Women, Half
Hose for Men and
i Hose an * Socks for
Children.
THERE is nothing to
beat it! Made in
Leicester, England,
from tbe finest Australian
long staple wool, Wolsey
comes to you as perfect as
wool underwear can possibly
be. Guaranteed unshrink-
able, it cannot lose its shape,
and months of service will
find it as good and comfort-
able as ever! Buy Wolsey
to-day and look for the
Wolsey Head Trade Mark
on each garment.
Made in England by
WOLSEY LTD., LEICESTER.
WOLSEY LTD.,
316, Flinders Lane
MELBOURNE.
/he first rough suggestion—the skilful
and accurate working out, the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive effort, call for the use of VENUS
PENCILS Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the design of a simple household
article, the pencil is the first requirement: the
VENUS the first pencil.
the" VENUS
ikns the ulorld.
17 Blacklead Degrees bb-bH sd. each - 4/9 per dozen. Super Copying (Medium & Hard) 6a.
each • 5/y per dozen. Venus Copying (Medium & Hard) 4d. each - 3/9 per dozen.
If any illustration in ‘‘THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Pen and Picture
Shadow Shows
P.D.C. have
made better
pictures than
“Let ’Er Go.
Ga 11 eg h e r,”
wherein Junior
Coglan is a
newsboy who
gets on to the
track of a murderer, and helps his reporter
friend to leap up the ladder of journalistic
fame. A love affair between the reporter and
a lady ditto helps to keep interest partly
alive, and the newspaper office which plays a
large part in the proceedings is convincing
enough ; hut it is all very serious, and it is
in being just the opposite that the next, and
somewhat identical, offering in this week’s
list considerably gains as an entertainment.
The experienced hand notices the name
of Kobe Daniels in the cast of “What a
Night” (Paramount), and watches full of
confidence. He notices that the picture is
dedicated to the newspaper workers of the
globe, and early sees indications that here
is yet another rendering of the whiskery tale
of a noble editor who wants to lay his town’s
crook-citizen by the heels. There is a start-
ling story to be had, and it is had, but the
proof lies in a cheque which, after a reporter
has nabbed it, is taken out of the editor’s
hands by the two-sided citizen, who is sup-
ported by a nasty dog from the underworld.
BEBE DANIELS.
The reporter
chases by
motor-car to
recove r the
heque; he
,';ets on to a
cal s e scent
and other such
things happen.
Hut the experi-
e need film-
taster waits
wit h confi-
dence. And
then, enter
licbe. The
story at once
changes color.
From common-
place melo-
drama it be-
comes uproar i-
ou s comedy.
Hebe is en-
gaged by the
paper as a
lady reporter.
She is put
into the hands of the lad wild has been
handling the crook-citizen matter, gets hold
of a few threads herself, and a weird and won-
derful thing she makes of it. It is absurd,
every half-inch of it, but it is so absurd
that no one with a taste for the ridiculous
can help laughing at it. At the private
screening there were only four present, all
reporters, two women, two men. All loosed
loud laughter, and left feeling better.
Pretty well all the ingredients that go to
make a satisfactory movie will be found in
West of Zanzibar” (Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer).
It lias a good story, in which suspense is
admirably contrived, so that the onlooker,
though he (or does weight of numbers make
it she.’') may have a fair idea of the nature
of the ending, he (or she) will not be quite
certain about it. Also, it is picturesquely
set-on the stage and in darkest Africa —
and it is principally carried through by Lon
Chaney and Mary Nolan. Lon Chaney lays
it on thick and heavy always, but he is a
creditable actor all the same, and especially
so for the movies. Mary Nolan proves her-
self an_ infinitely better player than previous
exhibitions had led this observer to suspect,
ohe is a most attractive blonde, a coloring
which, whatever influence it may have upon
gentlemen, contrasts effectively with the
shade affected by tho negro. Chaney in the
first reel is a stage magician, whose lady
leaves him to go off with another player, a
chap who is also feloniously responsible for
Chaney’s falling out of a window and becom-
ing a cripple. About a year later the lady
returns, dies and leaves in Chaney’s hands
a baby daughter. The scene shifts 18
years or so to west of Zanzibar, where
Chaney, having convinced the natives that
he is a real magician, is waiting his chance
to get even with the other chap, now a
trader in tusks and other jungle goods. He
has had the girl reared in a Zanzibar dive,
and things begin to move when simul-
taneously he sends for the girl and the other
chap. lie plans that the natives shall kill
both, and works the scheme out with devilish
detail. What does happen it would not be
fair to the picture to disclose. A touch of
the sordid in it all, but well-planned, well-
made and well-acted.
That prolific source of income for the
capitalists of Los Angeles, the Russian Revo-
lution, is once more up for inspection in
“Adoration” (First National). The basis of
the yarn is stereotyped. Prince Antonio
Moreni suspects the fidelity of his wife, the
Princess Billie Dove. The Crimson Terror
cuts across their quarrel, which is com-
pelled to transfer itself to Paris for clearing-
up purposes. Here he becomes a taxi-
driver and she a waitress in the Cafe Russe.
The spectacle of an aristocracy obliged to
accept tips from and fill the stomachs of
the proletariat is one that might gratify
the innocent soul of a Jock Garden, but
fails to interest a hardened critic, to whom
Billie Dove’s performance is a long monoto-
nous procession of sad painted lips and
large melancholy eyes.
“After the Storm” (Columbia) takes us
to a Singapore that never was on sea or
land. There we are introduced to the Golden
Crescent Tavern “where drinks are expen-
sive and lives are cheap” ; to Molly O’Doon,
“a piece of human driftwood bleaching her
soul on the Malay coast” ; to Captain Martin
Dane, a shipmaster who goes out in the
worst gale that ever visited those parts
with all sail set; and sundry other things
as remarkable as anything Marco Polo
reported of the place. The long arm of
coincidence is stretched until its joints
crack in bringing the flying ends of a
complicated story to one and the same
spot, and pathos, bathos and comic relief
are so intermixed that it is hard at any
time to tell whether it is one’s duty to
laugh or cry ; the sophisticated onlooker may
split the difference by going to sleep. The
picture is likely to be remembered, if it is
remembered at all, for the quaint Chow cook
of the ship, who produces a new joss every
time the skipper, who objects to super-
stitious practices amongst his crew, throws
the last one overboard. From a nautical
point of view, the storm from which the
story gets its name is a mixture of one-
tenth realism and nine-tenths absurdity. The
hurricane that the ship sails through looks
genuine enough, but the seas that engulf
the boat it goes to rescue look as if they
had been made in a bath-tub.
The Palette
A painting by A. Marriott Woodliouse
stands so completely out of the Australian
Art Society’s annual showing at the Edu-
cation Building, Sydney, that little else
seems to matter very much. It is called “The
Copper Gallon,” and is a vivid collection
of zinnias, large green apples and a
straw-bound flagon. The arrangement is
beautifully natural and balanced, and the
painting of metal, glass, flower and fruit is
charming. The picture is the centre in a
line of about half a dozen fine pieces, mostly
by the same artist and including a subdued
color effort of his called “A Window in Edge-
cliff”—a slender woman standing near a
closed window with sunlight coming through
the edges of her dress. “Supper Under the
Trees,” also by Woodliouse, has a more
modern note, and is also a competent piece
of painting. Another good piece of work
in this row is “Amethyst,” by A. E. Mac-
donald —a careful portrait of an ageing
woman. William Oates exhibits some bright
and pleasing landscapes in oil, and W. ,T.
Dowman breaks out of the rut with some
daring water-colors that also satisfy. One
or two good pencil heads by John Mills and
some zinnias by Lilian Lenthall are
other remembered items.
If the rate of purchase prevailing when
The Bulletin looked in continued after-
wards, there could now be nothing left to buy
in the exhibition of recent Arthur Streetons
at the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney. The ex-
hibits, however, are so fine that that might
be an advantage—there would be no temp-
tation to the artistic-hearted wage-plug to
rush out and mortgage his salary in order
to buy a magnificent piece of living flowers
like “Rhododendron” (100 guineas) or
“Hydrangea” (200 guineas) or any of the
Australian landscapes (ranging from 50 to
250 guineas) in which the artist has put the
soul, or the undertone, or whatever it may
be called, of the painted place. They are as
alive, these bits of Australia, as if they
were seen through the frame of a window.
In the 16 paintings exhibited there is a wide
variety of topic, and in only one instance is
the thing painted unworthy of the brush.
The exception is a group of three giant
sunflowers, excellent as paint but as ugly
as a butcher's shop. In the large landscapes
Strceton has painted together light and
shade, tree and rock, hills and great valleys
with the care and completeness that the
average dauber would give to any one of
those things. A picture called “Slie-oak” is
in a minor vein, though it is a beautiful
thing, but most of the rest are on a grand
scale in choice and in execution. The section
of the gallery walls that holds the “Rhodo-
dendron” piece flanked by two large land-
scapes is alone a rare exhibition —something
to see and not easy to forget.
“F.S.”: Preparations for the aboriginal
art exhibition to be held in Melbourne in
July are well under way. It will include
enlarged photos of the rock carvings recently
investigated by Vic. ethnologists in the caves
in the Grampians and on the extraordinary
cliff-face at Mootwingee, western N. S. Wales,
where the very Old Masters fill every inch
of an art gallery three miles long. Percy
Leason has made tracings of the most impor-
tant of these.
The Inky Way
“Coot”: Victoria’s oldest editor is Father
Watson, who, at 85, still edits the
Maponna. For 56 years he was on the
teaching staff of St. Patrick’s College, East
Melbourne. Father Watson has written
much verse; a volume. “Songs of Innocence,”
was published a couple of years ago.
“Hamer”: Mervyn O’Hara, dead in Syd-
ney after a long illness, will be remembered
for his clever Bulletin verses, mainly about
boarding-houses and Darlinghurst. He also
did sparkling work in “We Hooks the Dook,”
a publication that had a hilarious existence
during the visit of the Yorks. Bohemia is
making an effort to bridge the financial gap
which the pass : ng of a free-lance always
leaves in the domestic circle.
“Kay”: Iris Wilkinson is to have a book
of her verses (some of them have appeared
in The Bulletin) published in Maoriland.
The gifted young presswoman is now doing
special work for the Christchurch Sun.
“Fleet-street”: The Daily Express is
hitting the once-predominant Daily Mail
harder and harder. Potts and Slurk could
show these sheets little in the way of re-
crimination. Last year a High Court judg-
ment declared the Daily Mail’s football
coupon competitions illegal, and the Express
exulted for weeks. Now the Mail has
turned desperately to crossword competi-
tions, and the comments of the Express are
along such amiable lines as these:—
The Waste Paper Press is strangely reminiscent of
the night clubs. When one was closed down another
opened elsewhere under the same ownership, with
the same methods. As the night clubs made their
money by selling intoxicants out of hours, so the
Waste Paper Press tries to make money by selling
numerous copies to one reader.
The Express is said to be winning this fight
on its staff. From the editor. Blumenfeld
downwards, all know their jobs. And the
outside contributors of the Rothermere press
are not to be compared with the stars whom
Beaverbrook holds in the hollow of his hand
His circulation manager. Doidge, came from
a back-country N.S.W. town, and did his
first city newspaper job for The Bulletin


THIS
INEXPENSIVE
LUCPICATING
ECIJIPMENT PAYS
ENCPMCGS PPG FITS
1
*
4
Alemite offers you an opportunity to elim-
inate wear and tear in the operation of your
farm machinery and equipment. In only a few hours you
can remove all old style grease cups and replace them
with the proper fittings. They are made in all sizes and
angles—even drive fittings to plug the old oil holes.
Every bearing on every machine may be equipped and
lubricated in the same efficient Alemite manner.
The cost of Alemite is small, indeed, indi-
vidual fittings being but a few pence each. And lubri-
cating is simple once you have made the change. Each
bearing receives its proper amount of fresh, clean lubri-
cant. No waste —no unnecessary friction and wear!
Alemite is now standard equipment in 80%
of all farm implements manufactured in the United
States today. Why not let this improved modern lubri-
cation system earn for you these added profits?
The Alemite (Push Type)
“Barrel-to-Bearing” System
How it works: Alemite provides a method
for positively and easily lubricating all your farm imple-
ments. It is simple, yet insures proper lubrication. No
grit nor dirt can possibly work into Alemite Lubricant.
At no time is it even exposed to the air.
1. The lubricant is first pumped from its original
drum into
2. The handy, portable Alemite Filler Tank, which
holds 20 lbs. of lubricant. From this container, which
can be easily carried about the farm, lubricant is
pumped directly into
3. The Alemite Push Type Compressor. By means
of this gun you can easily develop tremendous pressure
which forces clean lubricant through
4. The Alemite Push Type fitting, into the bearing
—cleaning it as it is lubricated.
See your nearest dealer or write for particulars.
ALEMITE MANUFACTURING
CORPORATION
Division of Stewart-Warner
Chicago, U.S.A.
Full particulars from
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH
Resident Manager,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives:
Bennett & Wood, Ltd 284 Pitt St., Sydney
Motor Supplies, Ltd Brisbane
Atkins (W. A.), Ltd 894 Hay St., Perth
E. A, Machin & Co. Pty., Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
Cornell Limited, 122Pirie St., Box G.P.O. 496 E., Adelaide
For the Dominion of New Zealand;
Jas. J. Niven & Co.. 152 Wakefield St., Wellington, N.Z.
alemite
High Pressure Lubrication
ë


S;*Sf3P*
SILVER
i CAPi
o
%
%
tottON)
sn
W
In the
Square
Glass
Bottle with
GREEN LABEL
E<?uaJlu famous ai'e BOLS Vei'y Old
HOLLAND GIN in. kke Stone Bottle,
and BOLS Superfine LIQUEURS • •
AUSTRALIA’S BEST.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” whisky
MELLOWED BY AGE ALONE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney. [a
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
There was no horse-racing in Sydney on
Saturday ; the City Tattersall’s club, which
had the date, decided upon postponement,
owing to rain. The A.J.C. raced in worse
conditions, overhead and underfoot, on the
third day of its Easter meeting, but nobody
wanted a repetition of that experience. The
City Tatt.’s people got a good crowd on
Monday in spite of the raw, early-winter
weather; it is wonderful the number of
people who find time to go to the races in
Sydney, whatever the weather and the day.
After the drearily familiar butchery mis-
called a Hurdle Race, the Denman Stakes
was brought on for the puzzlement of punters.
R. L. Cashman has two pretty fair sprinters,
Sir Christopher and King’s Arms, in his
Newcastle stable, and doesn’t mind running
them one against the other. Honors went to
King’s Arms at the A.J.C. meeting, but on
this occasion Sir Christopher (8 to 1) proved
the better, Casque d’Or separating the pair
in the last few strides. It was a sterling-
finish that enabled Inducement (8 to 1) to
cut down the leader, Mr. Whiz, in the Novice
Handicap, and this Magpie four-year-old pro-
mises to turn out pretty good. He is in
William Kelso’s stable and was ridden by
Coutts.
Colored was scratched for the City Tatt.’s
Cup; the chestnut has been sold to West-
ralian Paddy Connolly, a rattling good judge
of a horse. In Colored’s absence, this Page’s
tote ticket went on Octember (20 to 1),
the unluckiest horse of the season. Last
early, the big October gelding finished very
fast, but was just too late to overhaul
New Sweet (10 to 1), who had a good run
all the way. The Banker (5 to 1) also
finished fast in third place; Wedding Eve
and Honan petered out over the last furlong.
By Newmarket —Sweet Alison, New Sweet
is owned and trained by G. H. Moody, whose
success was popular with his brother trainers.
* # * *
For Moorefield on Saturday :
Kogarah Stakes: Roley; next, Jeypore.
Flying Handicap: Bacagi; next, Promara.
Moorefield Handicap: Gwillian G.; next,
Waipori.
Carlton Mile: Bravado; next, The Grind-
stone.
* * * *
Ben Chaffey has had few wins since Man-
fred retired to the stud, where Whittier had
already been installed, and he fell out with
trainer Harry McCalman. He experienced
a crumb of comfort at Epsom (Vic.) last
Saturday, a division of the Trial Welter
being appropriated by Murthong, four-year-
old (gelded) brother to Manfred. Murthong
in no way resembles his distinguished rela-
tive, being on the leg and somewhat awkward-
looking. He seemed hopelessly out of it
at the distance, but finished well to score
by nearly a length. The race was for horses
that never previously had earned £5O in
stake-money.
Jack Holt appropriated the juvenile event
with Limber Up, bred and owmed by Gerald
Buckley, w’ho conducts a stud at Kyneton—
the lords of the harem are Woorak and The
Night Patrol. P. T. Heywood, now enjoy-
ing ease as the possessor of broad acres at
Albury, used to train for him. Strongly-
built and very shapely, Limber Up promises
well; he scored unextended. By Woorak—
Queen’s Battery, he is a gelded brother to
Woorgun, with whom Holt was success-
ful last season; their dam is a sister to
Artilleryman.
Twelve months ago Holt raked in a sub-
stantial sum over the successes of Chariot
in tlie Albury Gold Cup and the Wagga
Gold Cup. The Eudorus gelding was raced
by Billy Foulsham, but belonged to Holt,
who figured as lessor in nominations. Holt
is similarly joined in the turf essays of Rail-
ing (Sarchedon —Flay). This chestnut has
been leased to Tom Lambert, brother to
George (“Sugar”) Lambert, one-time jockey
of note. Backed from 3 to 1 to 7 to 4,
Railing landed the first division of the Trial
Welter. He had only a neck to spare from
Councillor (by Valais), whose rider —former
pony-jockey R. Comber —incurred criticism
for lack of energy at the finish.
Flemington trainer Dick Bradfield was
jubilant over Lalique winning the Albury
Cup, and sent a Marconigram to the
owner, who had taken his departure for an
overseas trip. Bradfield saddled up All
Chatter for the middle-distance April Ilandi-
THEY SNAP AT IT.
VISITOR : “What’s the best bait for fish down here?”
LOCAL: “Silver, sir, silver!”
cap at Epsom, and the Magpie filly went out
a hot favorite; but she gave an execrable
display, being almost in the extreme rear
throughout. The winner was old Bethauga,
who thus registered two successive week-end
victories. The rise in weight and the sup-
posed extra strength of the opposition caused
him to go out at 6 to 1. Tiki (6 to 1)
credited H. E. Connolly with a remunera-
tive win in the Epsom Purse, run over a
1$ mile course. Glylynn (favorite) had to
be content with third; like All Chatter, he
is trained by Bradfield. The flat victory of
Tiki speaks well for his chance in the jump-
ing season, now imminent. He is a hurdler.
Three of the seven events had been an-
nexed by hot favorites and other winners
had met with solid support. Greener (5
to 1) came to the rescue of the leather-
lunged by keeping a straight course in the
Epsom Plate and winning from end to end.
This is the prad that ran third to Figure
and Day Dreamer (Oakleigh Plate winner)
at Williamstowm in February. He belongs
to Denny Canny, the popular secretary of
the Werribee Club.
* * * *
Automatic Totalisators recently showed in
Sydney a working model of an addition to
their familiar machines, which should be
appreciated to the full by all racecourse fre-
quenters. The new device consists of a disc
carrying numbers placed over the name of
every horse on the tote. As each bet goes on,
a revolving pointer shows the amount payable
on any horse at any time during the betting.
When operations cease, the dividends are
instantaneously recorded, the device auto-
matically deducting (lie Government tax and
club percentage, and allotting the balance
in the proper proportions to first, second,
and third horses. If only a “talkie” attach-
ment to beef out the dinkum oil for the
race can be added the machine should be
absolutely perfect.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: Not the least attractive
feature of English sporting journals of lesser
degree is their display of eloquent advertise-
ments from gentlemen burning to give the
public the benefit of their ripe, not to say
rotten, experience of the Turf, as reduced
to certainties for to-day’s meeting. I am
familiar with the individual whose wife ran
away with a leading trainer, and with the
retired military officer whose nephew io
leading jockey for a famous stable, and many
others like them. A new one to me is
Grace Harwood, who, describing herself as
“Queen of the Turf,” offers the British public
the winners of the Lincoln and National —
no mere prognostication, but the actual
winners, mind. In addition, Grace promises
“a Grand Saturday Cert” gratis. Her
Majesty evidently makes a good thing out of
her philanthropy, for she takes a whole page
to advertise it.
* * * *
“Maidan”: It is probable that marked
changes will take place in the allotment of
prizes in this year’s Calcutta Sweep on the
Derby. One change forecast is the cutting
up of the huge pool into three separate lots,
with smaller prizes, but many more of them
than heretofore. For some years past the
system of issuing tickets direct to outside
subscribers has been discontinued, owing to
the trouble experienced by the Calcutta Turf
Club in settling claims * where tickets had
been subdivided among numbers of share-
holders. The reversion to the old system
of paying out only to members, the original
purchasers of all tickets, has not been satis-
factory. There has been at least one instance
where a member claimed the winning ticket
as his own and pocketed the huge prize,
leaving the real subscriber lamenting. He
was, of course, expelled from the club, but
there was no possibility of making him dis-
gorge.
M. (and Rafferty) Rules
Jack Roberts, the Newcastle (N.S.W.)
lightweight, evidently believes that points
decisions are unsatisfactory as well as a
waste of time. At Sydney Stadium, on Sat-
urday night, before a fair attendance, he
scored his best win to date by knocking
S’Afriean Willie Smith cold for the full
count in the fifth round. He attacked from
the bell, and his deadly right badly shook
Smith in the first round. Smith was moving
away, but all his evasion could not keep
him clear of the battery of punches. The
third was a very torrid round for Smith,
and in the next a terrific right-smash badly
split his left eye. The end came early in
the fifth with a pile-driving right to the
body followed by another to tin* jaw. The
winner is not. yet clever, but is a hard, deter-
mined fighter with a venomous right. With
proper handling he should help to put Aus-
tralian boxing back on its pedestal. Smith
weighed in at 9st. 141 b., Roberts at_9st. 31b.
Ooz. Roberts was under £l<K) forfeit not to
exceed 9st. 31b.
Footbrawl
“W.R.K.”: Maoriland Rugby representa-
tives are preparing for the tour of N.S.W.
with hurried trips to Victoria and Queens-
land. Should the best players be available,
and there seems no reason why they should
not be, the team will measure up just a
shade better than that which toured South
Africa last year. Maurice and Cyril Brown-
lie, Neil McGregor and Frank Kilby will
not don jerseys this season in big football.
N. S. Wales showed brilliant form in. Maori-
land last year, and the forthcoming tour is
being viewed by M.L. quite as seriously as
was the invasion of South Africa.
* * * *
“Barbarian”: The British Rugbv Union
team to play in Australasia will reach Maori-
land via the Panama Canal on June G. 1930.
The tourists will play 19 matches, including
four Tests and a match against a Maori team.
By the time they commence their programme
of eight matches in Australia, the side should
be properly tuned up. There is to be a
conference in Maoriland to settle
the differences in rules and in-
terpretations now prevailing,
together with other matters
appertaining to the game.
* *- *
“Gate”: The Rugby League
team for England will leave
Sydney by the Aorangi on July
25, and reach England by the
Atlantic route. Players are to
receive £4 10s. a week, but this
time will share only two-thirds
of the profits, instead of the lot
as heretofore. There will be
two managers, each receiving a bonus
in addition to a weekly allowance.
The contract which players must sign
will contain much more stringent pro-
visions than before, past experience suggest-
ing that the management should be given
more definite powers of disciplining mal-
contents.
* * * *
“Flagwagger”: Alec Eason, successor to
Paddy Scanlon as Footscray’s football coach,
has had a varied football career. Before the
war he and brother Bill were a pair of cham-
pions for Geelong. On discharge Alec
rejoined Geelong. But in 1922 Footscray,
then an Association club, held out rich plums
to prominent League footbrawlers; and Alec
grabbed one. Nicknamed “The Shag,” Eason
greatly helped to bring two pennants to
Footscray. Then the League persuaded
Footscray, Hawthorn and North Melbourne
to desert the Association. But Eason had
to hand in his guernsey ; the League had
disqualified him for leaving Geelong without
a clearance. Last year the League lifted his
disqualification, and now we find “The Shag”
back with Footscray as coach.
* * * *
“Everton”: The market for Soccer foot-
ballers in England this, year has been brisk,
class players being very scarce. During the
transfer period in January andl February,
many of the clubs found it almost impossible
to purchase fresh stock. The top price, said
to be £lO,OOO, was given for Storer, a fine
upstanding half-back from Derby County,
who was acquired by Burnley. Tottenham
Hotspur took, a risk and went right outside
to the third division for a Brentwood player
named Herod, paying £4OOO. However, it
was rumoured that Everton, last year’s win-
ners of the League premiership, were over-
stocked and might cull out some of their
high-priced stable, and at last advices every-
one interested was waiting eagerly for the
sale notices.
(Continued on page Jfi.)
EXPLANATION ACCEPTED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The gelding’s form the previous Saturday was
not impressive, but he finished really well on this
occasion, and, like many of his breed, is evidently
improving with age.”
Hold your devastating grumble
In the trains that homeward rumble;
It is time you took a tumble
To your folly!
Hush, I say, your peevish mutter,
Sad disciple of a flutter,
And recover from your utter
Melancholy.
Though your soul be discontented
And your shallow brain tormented,
While the doubts it has invented
’Round you hover,
Hurl no dreadful allegation
At a simple situation,
That a ready explanation
Soon will cover.
End this blather of low cunning
And of inconsistent running,
And for ‘stipes’ refrain from gunning
So unduly;
Cease your sour and senseless braying,
All your ignorance displaying
Of the game for which you’re paying
Well and truly.
Here’s a prad, sir, true to breeding,
That like liquor’s only needing
Age to mellow ; though misleading
The beholder
When defeat it chanced to suffer
In a field in no way tougher—
That’s a week ago, you duffer,
Now it’s older!
VICTOBIA.
HASEN.


STROPS
JXSUJL-
cs
r
:w:
a>
S33fe?p
”JOf
IN c*u'H^r
B^lTaik
©
43
No. 99 SET. Contains the essentials for a
perfect “Valet” shave the razor,
strop and three blades in leather-
ette-covered case
3/-
Managing Agents for Australia ' —
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
New Zealand Agents:
VAN STAVEREN BROS., Ltd., Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch.
“What does that mean —‘Strops
itself’?”
“There’s a stropping device built into
the head of the razor —strop just slips
through the razor head!’’
“Yes —and then?”
“Then all you do is run the Valet Auto-
Strop razor to and fro. Click, click —
and the blade is instantly sharpened
without taking it out of the frame.”
“Surely that sharpens only one side
of the edge?”
“No, no both sides are stropped
alternately.”
“Should be pretty sharp when
you’ve finished.”
“Sharp! It’s the keenest razor edge
there is—and it lasts for months.”
“Stropping take long?”
“Ten seconds each morning, and you
get the same principle right through
the Valet range: 3/-, 8 7 6 or 21/-
All dealers sell them.”
“Good. I’ll get one to-day.”
For Any Travel
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
è
The accredited Agents of all Steam
Ship Lines. Their expert guidance and
special facilities cost you nothing.
TO EUROPE 1930
Apply now for accommodation, as
berthing plans for all steamers are open.
WINTER TOURS
To Queensland, Bali, Java, Siam,
Japan, Hawaii, Malaya, Sumatra, Indo-
China (Saigon, Pnom-Penh, Angkor).
STEAMER EXCURSIONS
Cairns, South Sea Islands, Fiji, Tahiti,
Honolulu, Ceylon, Java, Japan and
Manila, etc.
COOKS’ TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
Are the safest and most convenient
means of carrying funds.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street,
ADELAIDE:
49 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street*
WELLINGTONs
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
Decidedly Distinctive —
and JTlosl Comfortable
“Merino-Knit”
Sweaters and
Cardigans al-
waysmeetyour
critical taste in
Knitted Sports
Wear. The de-
signs are strik-
ingly attractive
and the quality
superb! Just
what you wish
for wear in the
home or the
office, at golf
or tennis.
Flawlessly
Knitted for
Ulen of Tasle
JJB
ft*
--
5
RAMENO
ERINO-KNIT
"RAMENO" Brand
Sweaters & Cardigans
nla'Je Exclusively by the MERINO WOOLLEN MILLS
PTV., LTD., Specialists in Men’s High-Grade Sweaters
and Cardigans, Half Hose and Golf Hose.
ALL QOOD MERCERS STOCK MERINO-KNITWEAR
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.


é
(*
&
.Jjrtlo’'
o°
<£
Telegraphic, Cable and Wireless Address
“Austraotel, Sydney
Never take it for granted
that “The Australia” is
full, or listen to people
who say “it’s no use apply-
ing—they’re sure to be
booked-up.”
On the contrary, our accommodation
is equal to practically all demands
placed upon it. Should we be fully
booked when you apply, we will
gladly arrange the next best avail-
able accommodation.
Footbrawl
“Hotham”: E. G. Greeves, Geelong’s star
centre-forward, who has been coaching in
football-kicking for some months at the Uni-
versity of Southern California, has cast up
again in Melbourne, and will probably turn
out again for the club this season. He had
nothing to do with the weird game of Ameri-
can football itself, liis job being to teach the
students how to kick as well as the Austra-
lian-rules players. There were 11 others
coaches to attend to other aspects of the
game. He found that the players kicked the
drop entirely from the toe, and he had a
hard task trying to persuade them that the
Australian trick of kicking from the instep
was superior. When he began coaching, a
goal from a 20 or 30 yards’ kick was con-
sidered a great performance. When he left
they were kicking them from 50 to 60 yards,
out, and the percentage of scoring shots was
higher than it had ever been.
* * * *
“Port”: With the opening of the football
season imminent, South Australia is looking
forward to a record year. Port Adelaide, on
top last season, promises to be stronger than
ever, but has yet a long way to go before
it rivals the achievement of famous old Nor-
wood—l7 premicrships since 1577 and run-
ner-up 10 times. Port has won 10 times and
run second on 17 occasions.
* * * »
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W. Itugby Union
changed its mind last week and admitted the
Police club to the grade competitions. The
new recruits will have teams in all three
grades, and though the form displayed by
them in their games last season, when
they played the first-grade club with
the bye each week and were out
of the competition, was not up to first-
class standard, there was plenty of pro-
mising talent available. Now, with an incen-
tive before them, the newcomers should soon
settle down into a good side. In any case
their advent is a good advertisement for the
Union, and will help to extend its already
growing appeal.
* * * *
“Easy C.”: A journalist attached to a
daily paper knows no hours, and because of
that Y.M.C.A.’s dashing skipper, Gregor
George, will be unable to turn out for his
club and State this season. He is now
attached to the sporting staff of the
Telegraph Pictorial, and one of his duties
is to keep an eye on the ponies. That means
Saturday-afternoon work. Gregor’s absence
will be a big loss to the Union code, and his
place at stand-off half will be hard to fill.
He retires with a good record however, as
he is the only player in Australia that has
represented his State for six years in suc-
cession.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: The latest round in the all-in
scrap between the rebellious Brisbane Rugby
League and the State organisation seems
to have ended in favor of Brisbane. In
the opening games of the season the B.R.L.
fielded six teams and drew a crowd of 4000.
The Queensland League, which has tried
to set up new clubs in opposition to the
rebels, could only muster four, including an
Ipswich club already in existence. The
solitary match played in Brisbane dfew 600
spectators. However, the Q.R.L. has hopes
that its appeal to the N.S.W. body to come
over to Macedon and help it will bear good
fruit. It is difficult to see what the outlanders
can do. The B.R.L. includes most of Queens-
land’s good players, and the threat of leaving
the insurgents out of the team for the North
of England is already recognised as an
empty one. They simply can’t be left out
unless the tour is going to turn out a
farce.
* * * *
“Ticket o’ Leave”: There has been a big
rush of country League footballers to Syd-
ney clubs this season, the attraction of a
possible trip to England being the bait. In
consequence the League has found that there
is difficulty in keeping track of these people,
there being evidence that some of them have
been dodging the six-weeks’ residential
qualification, with the .connivance of the
clubs employing them. The League execu-
tive has, therefore, come to the extraordinary
resolution that all country players in pro-
cess of qualification must report at the
League offices every Monday night until their
term of probation is completed. Whether
the League will take the word of the pro-
bationers that they are what they claim, or
whether each one is to be branded with an
identifying number, has not been stated, but
it would round off the situation nicely if
that course were taken.
* * * *
“Outside Right”: Newcastle (N.S.W.)
football, has always had its, original features.
Ihe writer can recall being pelted with coal
by some of the female barrackers while en-
gaged in a Rugby match there in the long
a S°- Quite the brightest idea evolved up
that way to date is that of shooting a Soccer
goalkeeper as he was about to stop a goal.
It is true that the weapon used was only an
airgun, but it served its purpose. The pellet
distracted his attention so completely that
the ball went into the net without interrup-
tion.
The Ins and Outs
The N.S.W. first-grade premiership was
taken on Saturday by Western Suburbs,
Warren Bardsley contributing a sterling 109,
which won the match for his side. In addi-
tion to the grade premiership, Wests, with
fifth place in the second-grade and first in
the third, also won the club championship.
Wests scored 57 points as against Mosman’s
55. The latter’s match with Gordon, which
might have landed it a winner, could not
be played owing to the rain.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: Port Adelaide won the South
Aus. cricket premiership from Adelaide. Wil-
liams, the inter-State slow bowler, was chiefly
responsible for Port’s win, taking 6 for 111
in Adelaide’s last innings of 197, which left
the city 32 behind.
# * * *
Frank Collins, the 18-year-old Port Adel-
aide lad who heads the A-grade cricket
bowling averages in South Aus., did not
enter the senior ranks until the latter half
of the season, and finished up with a total
of 18 wickets for 228 runs, giving him an
average of 12.66. Ten of his victims were
clean bowled, six l.b.w. and only two caught.
Collins is the nearest approach to Tate wo
have, bowling a medium in-swinger that
makes great pace off the pitch. He keeps a
good length, and also has a deceptive flight.
He is a brilliant field, and his 79 in the pre-
miership match against Adelaide in as many
minutes shows that he can handle the bat
like a veteran.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury” : Discussion on the l.b.w.
rule still occupies the English experts, and
suggestions as to how to abolish the irritating
practice of “covering up” by safety-first
batsmen are unending. One of the most
sensible, proposes that the batsmen’s pads be
standardised, as the bat, ball and wickets are.
MAKING IT A WELTER.
INDIGNANT FOOTBALLER (to belated batsman): “’Ere, wot’s yer game? Trying ter beat
Don Bradman’s aggrigit?”
It is argued that a standard light pad to
supersede the huge monstrosities affedted by
latter-day batsmen would make the latter
think twice before playing the bowling with
their legs. These pads would protect the shin
from accidental injury, but not from an
incessant hammering throughout a long
innings, like the mattresses which now do
more defensive work than the bat in the case
of many players.
*l*
“Spare Archdeacon”: When our new Eng-
lish bishop came to Nimitypoo, which might
be considered the capital of his far-flung
diocese, he announced that he was devoted
to cricket, so the boys got up a match to try
his mettle. It was a hot day, and when his
lordship went in to bat after lunch our
fast bowler, “Corky” Jones, was well down
to summer Plimsoll mark. ' His first ball
passed some ten feet off the wicket, and the
Bishop, who was a good sort of a cove, but a
bit “superior,” said in a pained voice, “Keep
them on the miat, my man.” The square-
leg umpire just managed to duck the second
delivery, and this time the episcopal comment
Avas “Deah, deah; keep them in the parish,
what?” The third was a hummer which landed
well in the middle of where the episcopal
apron would have been if his Nibs had
been in regimentals. As we all rushed to
the holy man’s assistance, “Corky” hitched
up his trousers. “There,” he said, “that's
well in ther diercess, anyway.”
* ♦ * *
“Hotham”: The Victorian cricket heads
have just released some details of the cash
handled in the two Tests played on Yarra-
side, which should make poor robbed Syd-
ney, with its solitary game, jump upon its
collective hat. The net profit for the two
games was £86,106, or £7OOO better than
for the two matches against Gilligan’s team.
The visitors took £17,095 of this, as against
£14,018 in 1924-25, and the Board of Con-
trol will pouch £4OOO. The Victorian asso-
ciation’s finances are also in excellent nick.
As a result of the two games against
England and the Sheffield matches, the credit
balance has swollen to £6OOO. Some of this
might well he spent on improving the State’s
standard of bowling—the batting can safely
be left to itself.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: A beginning has been made
by the N.S.W. tennis authorities with their
crusade against players or officials who
write for the press. Not long ago
one of the vice-presidents, for years a
leading light in tennis administration, was
censured by the association for an article
criticising the selection of a woman’s team,
and was asked to resign. He refused to do
so, and was subsequently defeated for office
at the annual meeting. Evidently the
players, through their delegates, are in
accord with the action taken by the execu-
tive.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Some painful dis-
closures were made at the annual meeting
of the N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Association as
regards cheating by players in competitions
for which there were no umpires available.
It appears that the practice is so widespread
in these circumstances that there is a general
acceptance of the fact that the race is not
so much to the swift and to the unscru-
pulous. If a young man finds his opponent
is a more inveterate tarradiddler than him-
self, he just throws up the sponge, one
instance being quoted in which a player,
recognising his handicap, walked off the
courts. The association has resolved on
drastic action ; but what form this will take
has not yet been revealed.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: The loss of eyesight which
threatened to retire the German woman ten-
nis champion, Fraulein Aussem, from the
game (B. 27/3/29) has apparently been
less serious that was at first supposed. As
the result of specialist treatment she has
announced that she will be able to play at
Wimbledon during the coming summer.
Helen Wills, Mdlle. Vlasto, Senorita
D’Alvarez and Betty Nuthall will be among
her most formidable opponents, Betty
it is said, having now largely recovered her
early form as the result of mastering the
change of service she undertook last year.
The Australian champion, Daphne Akhurst,
is not a likely starter, but it is possible that
the Victorian champion. Esna Boyd, now
married and living in Europe, may repre-
sent this country.
The Nineteenth Hole
“St. Andrew”: The retirement of Earl
Balfour from public life is a reminder that
the great statesman did more to popularise
golf than any other man before or after
him. In the ’eighties, golf was confined
to a class of its own. Balfour brought
to the game the interest and attention which
his own outstanding personality had already
earned for him, and, having once tasted, the
herd came to drink in increasing numbers.
Of the thousand golf stories anent the ex-
Premier, the best-known describes the appre-
ciation of him given by “Auld. Wully,” king
of St. Andrews caddies, before whose awful
frown even American millionaires wilted. “If
I had his tongue, an' he had ma brains, we’d
gae far, the pair o’ us,” was the summing
up.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: The old saying that when
the North Pole was located there would
be discovered there a Norway rat, a New-
castle grindstone and a Scotsman might
nowadays be amended to include an Aus-
tralian. One turned up the other day in the
Bermudas, of all places, when Cecily Las-
celles, of the Royal Melbourne club, beat
Mrs. Saeger, of America, by 6 and 5 in the
36-hole final of the local women's champion-
ship. The Victorienne is a notable golfer
and has figured in the British women's cham-
pionships.
* * * *
“Iconoclast'’: In these days much
emphasis is being laid on the importance of
various “grips.” The old natural grip of
the shaft which the Scots who invented the
game learned from their two-handed sword-
wielding ancestors was good enough for Tom
Morris and Willie Auchterlony, but has been
abandoned by the latter-day addicts. We
have had the “overlapping” and half a dozen
obsessions, and lots of people who might be
better employed sit up at nights thinking
out fresh devices. The latest school dwells
on the importance of the part played by
the different fingers in making the shot. One
expert has recently rushed into print with
a meticulous tabulation of the share each
of the fingers of both hands must take in
the swing. That way lies madness, and the
bad golf which is its concomitant. In golf,
as in all other games where a ball is to
be hit, there are only two rules that matter.
One is to keep your eye on the ball and
the other is to hit it.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: The Ryder Cup, an annual
match between teams' of British and Ameri-
can professionals, is due to start in England
this week and will be played at Leeds. As
in the case of the Walker Cup for amateurs,
the Yankees have established a solid lead,
winning very easily in America last year.
This time, the Britons, led by George Dun-
can, are very confident, and talk about
wresting the open championship as well
from its American holder, Walter Hagen.
It is about time, for of late British golfers
have been cutting a poor figure in the big
amateur and professional events when
opposed to their American brethren.
* * -M A-
“Brassey”: .Tose Jurado, the Argentine lad
who scared the wits out of all the other
competitors in the British Open last year,
when he led 1 the field well into the straight,
so to speak, suffers from temperament. It
was this which caused him to drop his
bundle at Sandwich when he looked a winner
all the way, but his friends say that he
has acquired more poise wdth his 20th year.
The Argentinos are very cock-a-hoop over
his chances at Muirfield in May, and the
young champion has been sent over a month
in advance to get his eye in properly. If he
wins, a lot of British and American money
will go to the Plate, for there is heavy
wagering on the big golfing event, and the
Argentinos come at a gamble like flies to
a honeypot.
* s|: % * *
“Kay”: Sloan Morpeth, Maoriland’s open
golf champion, will be at the top of his
form when the Kirk-Windeyer cup team
goes across to Melbourne this year. Sloan
played one of the finest rounds of his career
when he tramped the-new Titirangi (Auck-
land) course in, 68 in the Easter tourney—
five up on bogey. Golf is not Sloan’s only
accomplishment. Four years ago the cham-
pion was farming. Unable to give the neces-
sary time to golf, he took up Rugby foot-
ball. Morpeth was a fine wing-forward, and
he captained both the Maniapoto and King
Country representatives before he returned
to the vociferative game.
* * * *
“The Mcllaggis”: America has carried the
national passion for standardisation into
golf. The making of clubs was once the
prerogative of the professional golfer, and
wonderful craftsmen many of them were.
America now manufactures on the mass pro-
duction system, each workman doing his
own particular bit to a club. A recent
enquiry showed that in one of America’s
largest factories there were only two men
out of several hundred who could make a
club from beginning to end. and both were
Scots who had learned the trade in boyhood.
(Continued on next page.)


o
B-E-f
tlrißMfi
w
Ensure efficient running by fitting B.E.S.
SPARK PLUGS. A type for every car, truck,
tractor, cycle, aeroplane and marine engine.
Fully guaranteed. All garages. Price 4/6.
Manufactured by
Australian Spark Plugs Pty., Ltd.
562 Spencer Street, Melbourne, C.i.
’Phones: F 4947, F 5961.
r
pOORD&SON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
11-Swlft & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents, 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney'3“
&
DT
A
ê
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
cTSbob^"
FOR MORE
MILES
TO THE
GALLON
■Wholesale Agents and Stockists:
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: Once more a Sydney-Melbourne
motor record has been established, miracu-
lously without IO3S of life to other individuals
using the public highway on which it was
put up. The good luck cannot be expected
to last for ever, though. The. driver was E.
J. Buckley and the car a standard Buick
44 model. Ills time for the run was lOhr.
24min., an average of 55 m.p.h. for the dis-
tance of 570 miles, while at the
speedometer registered over 90 m.p.h. Some
time ago it was announced that the auto-
mobile clubs concerned were frowning on
such attempts, and that the traffic authori-
ties of Victoria were taking steps to abate
the dangerous nuisance. Both good inten-
tions seem to have been relegated to the pro-
verbial bourne for such.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Melbourne was the scene of
an unusual prosecution a a result of
visit of City Council officials and traffic
police to the Exhibition speedway. Four of
the motor-cyclists competing in the various
events on the Exhibition track were charged
under a city by-law with failing “to tukc
reasonable precautions to prevent the emis-
sion of offensive noises.” The prose-
cution failed; all the same, Melbourne
residents are hoping that the officials
will extend their zeal to those highway
motor-cyclists who make night hideous to
dwellers in the long, straight streets of sub-
urban Melbourne. The noises these gentle-
men emit are not only offensive but internal.
* # * *
“Sprocket”: The defection of Jack Stan-
den, the ex-amateur cyclist (B. 10/4/’29),
has had one good effect. If: lias awakened
some of the slumbering ancients who com-
pose the Olympic Council to the fact that a
minor’s signature to a contract is as valu-
able as the estate of the rich uncle in Fiji.
The council resolved the other day, with
even more than necessary emphasis, that
where Olympic representatives of the future
are concerned the bond will have to he signed
by the young person’s legal guardian, as well
ns by tiie intending tourist. A clause entail-
ing forfeit in case of misbehavior or negli-
gence was also hinted nt.
# * * *
“W.R.K.”: Frank Grose, who missed the
last Olympic Games as track-cycling repre-
sentative for Maoriland when he was seri-
ously injured in training with Jack Standon,
is cock-o’-the-walk this year. He was unable
to defend his national championships,
but since then he lias taken on Tommy Oak-
ley, holder of two of the three titles, and has
beaten him easily. To-day Grose stands
alone as the most brilliant track cyclist
Maoriland has produced in a decade.
Maorilanders hope he will meet Duncan Gray
or the next amateur champion of Australia
soon.
* * * *
“Gear”: It is a long time since Hubert
Opporman showed up in Sydney, hut he is
to race at the Velodrome on April 20 against
a selected opponent. Opperman has been
touring the other States, and recently beat
that great Dutch rider Blekemolen in
Adelaide. He has made it a condition of
his appearance that his own motor pacer,
Alec Finlay, should also be brought over;
so followers of track cycling will see two
experts at work, for Finlay stands by him-
self as a leader as far as Australia is con-
cerned. Nothing has been heard lately of
Opperman’s return to Europe. When he
landed back in Australia last year he was
supposed to he contracted to one of the big
French cycle firms to appear in their Prix
de France team and in other European
events. It may be he has found there is
more money and less work in staying in
Australia.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer”: Out of America, whence
these things almost invariably come, it is
announced that one Dallas Claude Bracey
has put up a new world’s record of 9 2-ssec.
for the 100 yards dash. Australian Jack
Donaldson’s figures of 9|sec. have stood
since 1910. The cabled fact that Bracey
ran with a following wind will inevitably
debar his performance from supplanting that
of the “Blue Streak” on the books.
if * # *
“Long Dog”: After much froth and bubble
a Sydney magistrate has decided in a test
case brought against a dog bookmaker that
chasing meat hares round an enclosed track
is not coursing, and that betting on the joke
is therefore illegal. It lias already been
proved at great waste of time and money
that the pursuit of the tin variety of puss is
also not coursing, so it may be presumed
that the days of the alleged sport are num-
bered. However, an appeal is to be made to
the Full Court, and in the meantime the
Tommies will be allowed to operate at the
hare races.
*'* * *
“Daft”: The statement that greyhound
racing is petering out in the Old Country is
not borne out by the figures published by
the National Greyhound Racing Club for the
seftson from January 1 to November 30 last
year. Attendances totalled 13,095,275 as
against 5,557,67 S for 1927. The Govern-
ment collected £159,950 in amusement-tax, so
it has apparently no complaints to make.
* * * *
“Tamar”: As a result of the widespread
flood disasters iu Tasmania, the State row-
ing authorities have resolved to withdraw
their eight-oar crew from the inter-State
race for the King’s Cup at Perth next month,
and have cancelled the test race which was
to have determined the selection of the crew.
The Australian Council is to be asked to
grant Tassy exemption from the rule which
lays down that a State not competing shall
forfeit the right to have the big race held
on its own waters when its turn next comes
round. Tassy first took part in the race in
1885, but did not appear again until 20
years later, when the islanders won. Since
then they have had three wins.
4s * * *
Australian rowing lost its most notable
figure when Q. L. Deloitte died in Sydney
with 85 years to his credit. He was born in
the Parramatta River neighborhood in 1843,
so it was fitting that most of his leisure was
devoted to the sport which is especially
associated with the famous river. Himself a
fine oarsman in his youth, he was one of the
founders of the Sydney Rowing Club, which
in its turn was the beginnings of the N.S.W.
Rowing Association. Q.L.D. carried his
interest and influence in rowing far beyond
the boundaries of his own State, and it is
not too much to say that the sport through-
out Australia to-day is founded on the prin-
ciples he helped to establish, li'is name was
a household word among rowing men in
Britain as well as Australia, and perhaps
the proudest moment of his life was when
he saw a N.S.W. crew win the Grand Chal-
lenge Cup at Henley in 1912. Sailing also
engaged much of his interest, and for many
years up to his death he was one of the
leading spirits in the historic Anniversary
Regatta on Sydney Harbor.
* >i-. * *
“Blue Chalk”: Billiard players who are
looking forward to the visit of Willie
Smith are interested in the fact that he
Ims brought his own cloth from England
with him, and that the terms of his contract
permit him to have it put on the tables for
all his games. According to the experts
there is no difference between the type of
cloth used in England and that which
decorates most Australian first-class tables,
for the simple reason thnt the stuff is only
made in one corney of the world —the west
of England. Anyway, I don’t see why Willie
should worry. I once fitted up a moth-eaten
French billiard-table in Egypt with camel-
lmir blankets, pinched by the hoys from an
adjacent Bedouin encampment, and found it
play quite well enough for me.
# * * *
“Third Base”: Though little heard of in
Brisbane, baseball is making headway in
some of the Queensland country towns. The
latest recruit is Rockhampton, where an
association has been formed, chiefly among
cricketers, to play the game during the
winter. Rocky is also strong on football,
HARRY FLEGG, the new president of the
N.S.W. Rugby League.
and to avoid offending the susceptibilities
of the Rugby League addicts it has been
resolved to play on Saturdays. As the
footballers indulge in their recreation on
the Sabbath, there will be no clashing of
interests.
# * * *
“Old Q.”: It is not often that a man who
has experienced the comparatively innocuous
delights of inter-State football has the
temerity to take on the rough and tumble
of bowls, but Charley O’Rourke, one of the
leading lights of the Queensland team in
Sydney last week, is an exception. In the
palmy days of the Union game in the nor-
them State he was a first-class scrum half,
donning the maroon jersey against N.S.W .
and Maoriland. He was a member of the
’92 side which won both its matches against
the Ma State in Sydney—the only time the
double has been brought off on the Sydney
Cricket Ground.
* * * *
“Ride Off": Though the bidding is de-
scribed as “not spirited,” the Australian
polo ponies auctioned in California the other
day brought what we would consider very
satisfactory prices, ranging from £lOO to
£640, paid "for Collingwood. Several brought
over £5OO. and those left after the prime
lots had been culled out averaged about
£240.
W. BRECKENRIDGE, the Waratah
forward, who was recently elected lion,
treasurer of the N.S.W. Rugby Union.
“Splash”: The devotees of flapper swim-
ming were mightily uplifted last week when
the cables announced that the Americo-
Swedish swimmerette Martha Norelius had
swum the hundred in 59 2-ssec., and become
the first female to break the even minute.
The feat was carried out in a 42yds. pool,
which makes it the more meritorious, since
most of these stunt swims are done in a
25yds. bath, where the swimmer has the
advantage of three turns. In this race the
damsel defeated the Olympic champion at
the distance, who owns to the fine old Anglo-
Saxon label of Osipowitch. She herself is
the 400 metres Olympic champion.
# * * *
“Spike”: The long-drawn-out wrangle
over the report of the manager of the Olympic
team, Les Duff, has been obliterated with
a generous whitewash brush, the manager’s
charges as to neglect of training and giddi-
ness being found unwarranted for the most
part, though the council adds there were
“regrettable instances of undignified con-
duct.” One Victorian member has been
reported to his State authorities for neglect-
ing his training, and the late manager cen-
sured for alleged “inadequate control.” It
does not a’ppear that he was given powers
of enforcing control, for it is admitted that
when he threatened to send an offender
home an official outsider touring with the
team vetoed the decision. The affair should
once and for all end the present method of
Olympic control in Australia. It has been
a rank failure from the beginning.
* * # *
“Crosse”: It is a curious fact that
lacrosse, an admirable game in all respects,
gets very little public recognition in N.S.W.
This though an all-Australia carnival is to be
held in Perth in connection with the West-
ralian centenary, and the N.S.W. Association
has resolved to send a team over. Like some
other sports in Sydney, lacrosse suffers by
reason of the fact that the association does
not control any enclosed ground of im-
portance, which means that funds are hard
to come by.
* $ 4t *
_ “Bumpkin”: Melbourne speed-boat fan-
ciers have discovered the advantages of the
Albert Park Lake as a racing- and testing-
ground. The lake is a picturesque but
shallow basin completely hidden from
the ordinary passer-by in the midst of
the suburbia which lies between St.
Kilda-road and Port Phillip Bay. It
has the advantage that if a collision or a
capsize occurs the victims can usually walk
ashore. It is a common thing on Saturday
afternoons for au outboard-motor-boat
owner to lift his craft out of the Yarra and
transport it to the lake, where he can tear
about at 30 miles an hour followed by a
stern wave big enough to swamp a liner.
Residents get as hot when you mention motor-
boats as the rest of the community does
when you mention motor-cycles without
silencers.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Claude W.”: Why isn’t the manufacture
of isinglass undertaken in North Queensland ?
It is the home of the tassel-fisli, the air-
bladder of which is exceptionally large ; from
this organ is extracted the best isinglass of
commerce. In all other countries where
fish of this variety abound the air-bladders
are carefully collected and utilised; in N.Q.
they are thrown away as worthless. _ Yet
we import isinglass to the value of £15,000
or £1(1,000 p.a., and an export trade could
assuredly be worked up.
* * * *
“Clerk"; Clapp is building 11 183-ton
locomotives of the X class at Newport (Vic.)
for goods traffic, formerly performed by the
128-ton C-class loco. The X class is a
modification of the C type, and has been de-
signed to permit of easy conversion to the
4ft. 81 in. gauge when unification comes. By
alteriug the wheel arrangement and widening
the firebox, that modification has provided
an opportunity to. put an additional 50 tons
on the giant’s weight, and to increase its
tractive force from 36,0001 b. to 46,0001 b.
Patented equipment like the booster and the
injectors are practically the cnly imported
parts of the new engines.
* * « *
“Esters*’: In a circular to the trade,
Southards, the wine importers, point out that
large quantities of Australian wine are
being offered in Britain at prices which
spell heavy losses to the growers. The
Commonwealth Government is blamed for
encouraging the over-production of wine
grapes and barging in with ill-judged legisla-
tion ; the Government, Southards say, would
do far more for the industry if it attempted
to increase home consumption and left over-
seas marketing to those expert in it. 1
think Southards are right.
* * * *
“Bill Bowyang”: The Queensland royalty
on sandalwood has been reduced from £4 to
£1 per ton, and cutters are again starting out
to seek the fragrant timber, the present price
of which is £32 per ton, f.o.b. at Townsville.
Most of the sandalwood within easy distance
of the coast on Cape York Peninsula has been
collected, but there is close on 1000 tons
growing in the Hughenden district, and
lesser quantities in other parts. Another
variety, known as rosewood, is very plenti-
ful, but the best price offered for it is £7 10s.
per ton.
* * * *
“Dump": Glucose is extensively made in
Australia from maize; the industry is there-
fore of interest to farmers as well as manu-
facturers. The Customs duty is £3 a ton.
Lately the price of imported glucose has
dropped below that of the Australian pro-
duct ; in fact, the stuff is selling here at
30 cents per cwt. less than the rates ruling
in America, the country of origin, in spite
of duty, freight rates and other charges.
Clear evidence of dumping, if any were
needed.
* * * *
“Olor Delpus": The N.S.W. Government
railways are calling tenders for 50,000 super-
feet of teak. Why? For toughness and
durability no country in the world can put
six timbers alongside our ironbark, grey gum.
white and red mahogany, tallow-wood and
spotted gum, to name hut a few. If the
teak is to be used for ornamental pur-
poses, what’s wrong with Tasmanian black-
wood, Queensland maple, red cedar, coach-
wood, myrtle, myall, rosewood or black
walnut? Orders such as this explain why
Queensland settlers are forced when clearing
to burn forests of silky-oak because there
is no demand for it. Meanwhile Chinese fur-
niture-makers are filling half the homes iu
Sydney with Japanese oak and American
oregon. v
* * * *
“Bargara” : A branch of industry in which
machinery has not superseded hand labor is
the filling of tins with treacle and golden
syrup. The viscous fluid, which has a gate,
not a tap, as a mode of control, is fed
into cans which stand on a scale-plate,
the boy filler cutting off the supply when
the correct 21b. or 71b. weight has run.
Boys also drop by hand the tiny blobs
of solder which hold the air-tight recessed
lids fast on the tins. The syrup-filling
room is a useful training ground for lads,
who graduate thence to adult positions in a
refinery.
* * * *
“Two Seas”: “Allowance” post offices in
the bush are run by men and women who,
in addition to making up the mails, have
to attend to a telephone and a branch of the
Government Savings Bank. The “salary"
runs from ss. per week, and not far up-
wards. My postmaster recently apologised
for the many scraps of string that had to
be knotted together to enclose my mail. He
explained that orders had been issued that
departmental string was not to be used for
tying together letters and papers delivered
by the roadside mailmen ; the five-bob p.m.’s
must provide all extras. And the Govern-
ment that practises this economy has spent
nearly half a million on royal commissions.


iiitiiiill!
i
m
m
fa
%
mm
>
w
1
ass
TV'-
VSy.,
m
.......
BSS
(Sfi
■yr&?
i
. , ■
rks??#*
V’Ki;
y;
;
,
m
m
m
m
Vy;
M
Clip out this
Coupon —
Simply fill in your name
and address and full
range of patterns wili
be mailed to you
immediately
free 1
Desk R. *
Murdoch’s, Ltd.,
Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —Kindly send
me, jree of cost, a complete
range of Patterns of your
£5/13/9 and other Special Suiting
offers. It is understood that /
am under no obligation whatevei
to purchase.
Name
Address
17/4/ ’29.
—to supply Murdoch
Suits for Men only
in one year!
D to this the wool from tens of thousands of sheep for other
Men’s, Youths’, and Boys’ Suits and Overcoats, marshal unnum-
bered thousands more for the Pullovers, Coat Sweaters, Under-
wear, and other woollen garments, and the total will soar well
over the million mark.
There is no egotism in this statement. It is put forth purely as irrefutable
evidence of the overwhelming preference of the Men of Australia for
MURDOCH CLOTHES.
From “Woolpack
to Wearer” brings
to you this astonishing
Suit value
Besides the quality of the Suiting, the style in the make,
the accuracy in fitting, you have here also unrivalled
value. A choice selection of the new Autumn . and
Winter Suitings for Men. All-wool Worsteds in
attractive patterns and tones of Light or Mid Grey,
Fawns, Lavender Greys, new shades of Blues, Browns,
also an assortment of fancy mixtures, plain and Herring-
bone weaves, stripes, and checks. Faultlessly tailored
to your exact instructions for—
Vm
Guarantee
Absolute proof of supreme worth,
a guarantee, as follow, is sent
with eaeh Suit.
We guarantee this Suit to Mr.
against flaws in
the material or making, or against
any imperfections in the fit, and
If it is not satisfactory we will
make another Suit Free of Charge
or refund the full purchase price.
MURDOCH’S. DTD., Sydney.
SUPERB QUALITY WORSTEDS in Browns, Plmns,
Grey, Fawn, Powder Blue shades featuring Checks, Herring-
bones, Basket Weaves, etc.; also Serges,
in plain twills, Herringbone or Dice
Checks. Murdoch - tailored, and
HAND - FINISHED
Highest-grade English and Australian All-Wool Pure Worsted
Suitings, in smart tones of Greys, Fawns, new Blues, Plum, Blue-
Grey, and Slate. Also high-grade Serges to your measure and
Hand-finished Qt_ £s/JQL £9' lo'-
£6' lff-
W' 1
jiSOCtO
rr rr
prr|
EET
E 3
3
ra
t
Turk
& George Sts., Sydney
Z
‘‘THE WORLD’S LARGEST MEN’S AND BOVS’ WEAR STORE*'
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR
When writing, kindly address all letters to Desk B,


ijnder
Royal
//arrant
ē
) A,??-“»D
pui>i
"W'H °1
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
McsMicdi
uniß ■
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
SWI3H
<9isprans»pßtQ
3 SOVdWVMa
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Averts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
8
■WA
Y-6
m
m
mi
K5O
NO RIND—NO WASTE.
Sold ly weipht ,
or in half-pound
Cartons ly all
Grdcers and
Storekeepers.
Good to the
Last Morsel
AND MADE IN
AUSTRALIA.
KRAFT
CHEESE
Wcnnotß
Wahl
RDTCR
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
7hp centre of Queens/onc/s
distinpu/stec/ Spc/o/ Life.
ĕ
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
SLIPPER
HEEL
SILK HOSIERY
Lady de Chair opened the annual talk of
the C.W.A. in David Jones’s auditorium, and
every inch of the space was needed. Prime
Minister Bruce added eulogy and advice to
the words of wisdom uttered by her Lady-
ship. The whole week afterwards was occu-
pied with deliberations for the betterment of
the women out back. Still there were occa-
sions of enjoyable social amenities. The
evening before the business commenced there
was a reception, at which nearly 500 joined
in such bush chanties as “Way Down Upon
the Swannee River.”
The great event was the garden party at
Government House in the middle of the
week. Lady de Chair, wearing handsome
ring velvet, made peacock fashion with the
long graduated back, with a p'eture hat of
grey, was assisted by Elaine, in a soft pink
girlish turnout, and each of them shook
hands with more than 300 guests, and man-
aged to look as if they enjoy'd it even to
the last digit. The guests were shown around
the grounds, entertained at tea on the 1 iwus
and afterwards enlivened with music. Violin-
ist Erica Morini was an interested guest.
President Mrs. Matt Sawyer received con-
gratulations on her re-election in smart
black trappings lightened with flesh-pink.
Mrs. Hugh Munro’s amiable smile played
above a faultless toilette of navy romanette.
Mrs. James Ashton chose the dignity of black
and white.
The C.W.A. devoted nearly a day to the
problem of domestic help outback. One
bright soul advocated the employment of
middle-aged women, young girls being
“gregarious animals.” The nearest the con-
ference seemed to get to the solution was to
decide that the C.W.A. must establish a
registry office in town. One has nothing but
sympathy for the over-worked busli-wife, but
a word might be said, too, for the stark loneli-
ness of the girl who is isolated from all her
kin. Girls who have longed for the free open
life of the big spaces have told this Letter
some of their experiences as nursery governess,
companion, housemaid and general. Most of
them complained that the mistress took no
more interest in them than if they were
machines.
The Bulletin office is housing a new trea-
sure. Of all the people who cheered the
paper when it set out to do something for
the Australian novel none was more enthusi-
astic than Norman Lindsay; and presently
he decided that he would like to himself do
something to draw attention to an Austra-
lian novel when a worthy one was dis-
covered. In due time “The Quartermaster,”
The Bulletin’s abridgment cf “A House
Is Built,” the £5OO prize winner in the first
competition was introduced to him. Norman
is not an easy critic to please, but he was so
enthusiastic over the descriptions of early
Sydney and its life that he set to work, and
within the ensuing couple of months pro-
duced a dozen of the most exquisite drawings
ever made. Bulletin heads confess that
they wouldn’t have dreamed of asking Nor-
man Lindsay to produce such superb things
for the purpose of illustrating a story; but
when the interest of the world’s greatest
artist in black-and-white is excited, he can’t
do things by halves.
So when “The Quartermaster” reaches
The Bulletin it will be backed by what
can quite safely be said to be the most mag-
nificent set of full-page drawings ever
attached in any country to a serial story.
And the story that so aroused the artist is
as certain to intrigue Australian readers gen-
erally—and especially those at all interested
in old Sydney.
Lady Stonehaven attended the annual fes-
tival of the Mothers’ Union at St. Andrew’s
Cathedral last week. Her Ex. was the guest
of honor at the afternoon-tea party in the
Chapter House, and sat next to Archb sV'p
Wright’s lady. The roll-up was nearly 300.
Who’d expect to see Premier Bavin and
assistant-Treasurer Stevens on a dance com-
mittee? Well, they figured on one last week
when the staff of the Treasury made a bid
for funds for Sydney Hospital. Mrs. Bavin
came in a drape of lido blue gleaming with
diamente, and Mrs. Stevens wore luscious
apricot tones. Justice and Mrs. liaise Rogers
and Commander Garcia -were among the
others who smiled approval on the charity
hop.
Journalist Freda Sternberg gave her
friends a big surprise when she cancelled her
passage on the Oronsay to embark on a mat-
rimonial voyage with Edmund Barrymore,
the associate-editor of the Townsville Bulle-
tin. It was a registry wedding, with the
tall, good-looking bride smartly tailored in
navy and clutching a posy of red roses.
Jill Jeffreys, of Collaroy, who attained
a measure of fame through successfully sell-
ing Dodge motor-cars, was married last
Thursday night, after a short, romantic
wooing, to Noel Middlemas from Borneo.
The vows were taken at St. John’s, Darling-
hurst, from the shelter of a pale pink tulle
veil covering pink lace frocking. The brides-
maids, Olive Angelinetta and Doreen Payne,
reversed the orthodox order of wedding dress
by wearing white frocks, but green hats
and green shoes subdued the bridal sugges-
tion. There will be a trip to Maoriland be-
fore setting off for Sarawak. Mr. and Mrs.
Stanley Jeffreys did the honors at the Hotel
Australia after the ceremony.
At Our Lady of the Sacred Heart Church,
Randwick, there was a Nuptial Mass when
.Tosie Dwyer was married to Dr. Alan F.
Oxenham, youngest son of the late Humphrey
and of Mrs. Oxenham, of Neutral Bay. The
’groom’s mother lent the beautiful Limerick
lace veil which enveloped the bride’s frock
of ivory chiffon, through which the founda-
tion of palest pink georgette glowed. The
tiered skirt wore the peacock back, and the
bodice had a deep yoke of lace, the whole
finished with a crystal girdle. Pink and
silver ribbon tied up the shower bouquet of
frangipanni and carnations, and trails of
lily-of-the-valley fell to the hem of the frock.
The bride’s sister Emilie ’maided in rock-
melon pink georgette, and her felt hat of
the same shade had touches of velvet. Dr.
Arthur Sullivan was bst man. The recep-
tion was held in the Wentworth.
Elizabeth Clarice Blackwood made a
charming picture as she walked up the flower-
decked aisle of St. Stephen’s to meet A. I.
Busby, of Cassilis, son of the late C. W.
Busby and of Mrs. Busby, of Westbury
(Tas.). The bride, who is the only daughter
of the Blackwoods of Narromine, wore a
graceful ankle-length gown of white Chan-
tilly lace. This had a scalloped hem, and
carried a huge bow of tulle and diamente
on one *hip. The train, which hung from
the shoulders, was a gorgeous affair of ivory
ring velvet lined with rucked rosy tulle, and
over this billowed the veil of hand-worked net
which had been worn by her mother. A
shower bouquet of cream roses, lilies-of-the-
valley and stephanotis was carried. Mrs.
A. Thomson, matron of honor, wore a jade-
green felt hat with her jade-green laces and
georgettes, which were draped at one side, and
she carried yellow roses and autumn leaves.
Later in the blue room of the Wentworth the
bride’s mother received the guests in black
lace carrying fuchsia-toned flowers. Red
roses were carried by the bridegroom’s
mother, whose frock was of black satin.
Sylvia, youngest daughter of the late H. D.
Edwards, of Leeton, has just become en-
gaged to Charles E. Mac Duffie, who hails
from Jefferson, lowa, U.S.A.
A proud woman at the C.W.A. Conference
was Mrs. W. Mackay, of Tingaroo station,
Scone; she
and Mrs. Matt
Sawyer, the
State pres i-
den t of the
association, are
responsible for
the new crop
o f branches
along the
lower North
Coast. At first
it looked as if
their organis-
ing tour would
be a washout,
for no sooner
had the Dun-
gog and Wau-
eliope branches
been formed
than down
came the
rains; and
the ladies man-
aged to catch the last train away from the
district before the flood. While the waters
were subsiding the two dashed off, even as
Noah’s dove, to Maitland and Newcastle,
and when the rains were over they carried
on the good work at Port Macquarie, Stroud,
Gloucester, Kcmpsey, Taree and Wingham,
Mrs. Mackay is a daughter of General Mere-
dith, of Raymond Terrace, and a sister-in-law
of Genera] Ivan Mackay, of Sydney Uni.
Dayne made the picture.
Lady de Chair showed herself conversant
with many things that pen-pushers thought
were family secrets on Thursday when she
set the machinery going for the second
Journalists’ Ball. She mentioned that she
had been instrumental in getting the Gov-
ernment to grant a pension to one indigent
woman journalist and loudly applauded
the help the A.J.A. benevolent fund was
giving to current cases of distress. The
Hotel Australia supper-room was filled with
sympathisers, who made the ball such a
record success last year. Lady de Chair
was accompanied by Elaine. The Went-
worth is again to be the location and masks
will be the order of the evening.
The girl with the Barrie face in this pic-
ture is Violet Popplewell, daughter of the late
Mrs. Arthur
Popp lewell,
whom a for-
mer generation
r e m e m bers
as Rosa Bird,
lyric soprano.
But Violet has
a claim to re-
membrance m
her own mer-
its, being a
portrait-
painter wh o
caught the eye
o f Royalty.
Among the
many w e 11-
known people
she has limn-
ed are Prin-
cess Alice,
who sat for
her twice, and
who still re-
tains the portraits; find Princess Eulalia,
aunt of the King of Spain. Two or three
months ago Violet came from London to visit
her aunt, Mrs. W. T. Palmer, and instead
of going back to art and London con-
sented to marry Frank Richmond in Blaekall
on April 11. The young man is a local sta-
tion manager, and although the lady has
known him since she was seven they had
not seen each other for nearly 20 years, lo
celebrate this journey’s end, pianist Carl
Budden Morris composed a wedding march.
St. Vincent’s College ex-students had a
delightful reunion at the Ambassadors, and
the committee claimed to have launched the
most delightful bevy of debs, this season.
There were 10 of them, mostly just from
school, and the daughters of such young,
fresh-looking matrons that it was hard to
believe Mamma had left school long enough
to have a grown family. Most of the tables
were trimmed with flowers or streamers of
the College colors, blue and white. Miss
Elsie McKelvey was hostess at the official
table, and entertained representatives from
the principal Catholic old girls’ unions. Vice-
president Mrs. Fred Hatfield, draped in
black lace, was proud to introduce her tall,
fair deb. daughter Mollie in white-spotted
tulle, and niece Marie Ward, a brown-eyed
girleen in white ring velvet. Bebe Stevens
was an uncommonly clad deb. in frilled pink
satin.
Dr. Fanny Reading is beginning to see
her dream of a Jewish “Council House”
materialise, and the ball at the Ambassadors
last week added something worth while to
the fund. Dr. Fanny clothed her energy in
crystal-beaded ivory georgette, with a mam-
moth frangipanni spray adorning her shoulder.
Queenie Kersh allied a frilled skirt of golden
net to a closely-fitting bodice of gold taffetas;
hon. sec. Mrs. Claude Zucker was in leaf-
green georgette gleaming with silver beads;
and hon. treasurer Mrs. Lionel Levy’s blush-
pink draperies had weightings of diamente.
Mrs. C. J. Handley is in Sydney from
Rabaul. Few women can have seen more of
Island life. Her husband was C.P.S. at
Thursday Island, but resigned to join in a
pearl-shelling venture. His interesting career
ended tragically; he was killed in a motor-
car accident near Rabaul. Mrs. Handley
has brought with her some of her striking
pictures of natives in full regalia, particu-
larly the Duk-duk dancers from the wild
Sepik country.
St. Paul’s College launched an appeal for
funds to extend the beautiful old stone
building. The Warden and Fellows gave a
garden party; in a setting of green lawns and
flowers there was every inducement to
loosen the purse-strings or charge the
fountain-pen. Our State Governor drank tea
on the verandah with the Warden of St.
Paul’s and Mrs. Garnsey, Mungo Mac-'
Callum and his lady, Archbishop and Mrs.
Wright, and Vice-Chancellor Professor Wal-
lace. Civic-Chief Garlick brought along
his brown-eyed little wife, with a golden
georgette vest to her black georgette gown,
and a neat little black, up-turned hat appli-
qued with golden flowers. Mrs. Walter
Swinson shaded her ivory skin with a black
picture hat, worn above black lace draperies
as she paced the lawns with her tall husband.
Principal Susie Williams wore a real garden-
party frock of flowered chiffon. Frank
Albert, a consistent benefactor of St. Paul’s,
brought a very smartly-attired wife in white
and green.
Mrs. W. A. Holman will have plenty to
tell daughter Portia when she meets her in
England, for the series of farewell parties
still takes all the time she can spare from
packing. The Society of Women Writers
began last week’s round, and a shivoo at the
Royal Empire Society’s rooms was a con-
eluding chapter. At this Mrs. W illiam
Francis was hostess.
There were the most charming and frag-
rant of goods sold at the Ambassadors at
the Carnival Cabaret for the funds of the
Narellan Orphanage. The little girls who
live there made them, and the lovely hand-
stitclierv labelled the work a convent pro-
duct. Mrs. E. W. Robinson, president of the
committee, was handed an outsize in bouquets
and adorned her table with it. Popular ex-
Mayoress Cecilia Walsh was a vice-presi-
dent.
Charming girls in charming frocks danced
at the Wentworth at the annual reunion of
the Abbotsleigh Old Girls. A posy of pink
and gold rosebuds tied with the school s
colors, black and gold, was presented to
principal Miss D. Poole, who wore a frock
of apricot georgette. President of the union
Mrs. Maynard Pain, in thickly sequinned
black georgettes; Mrs. 11. England, in black
ring velvet; and Mrs. Austin, in black ana
white lace, were also at this table. Miss
Joyce Loder, who shared the secretarial
duties with Joyce Godsell, wore shell-pink
chiffons which carried rows of baby roses,
and Joyce girdled with brilliants her frock
of ivory lace over pink georgette.
A feature of the cabaret at the Wentworth
in aid of the Limbless Soldiers was the char-
acter delineations and mystery-solving done
by Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Buckley. Jeanette
Ethelstone’s singing, too, is remembered, and
the old-time waltz competition proved attrac-
tive, the prize being eventually divided be-
tween Mrs. Bertie Lloyd, Mrs. O’Keefe,
Mrs. Clouston and Mrs. Christie. Mrs. John
Garlick, president of the cabaret, was handed
a posy of rosebuds by the lion, organiser,
Mrs. Harry Burrell; Mrs. Malcolm Ross was
hon. secretary. Another noticed in the big
crush was Myrine Collins, the candidate put
forward by the Hospice for the Dying for
the title of Queen of Benevolence in the
Firemen’s competition.
Agnes Murphy tolls us Europe’s bitter Feb-
ruary has frozen out many singers and play-
ers. Ada Crossley was one who sought a
warmer clime; she made for Colombo, find-
ing a travelling companion in Nellie Vcitch,
who is returning to Melbourne on a P. and
O. liner after nearly a year in England.
Nellie put in some time at the Manse, Lis-
maliago, where the Rev. James and Mrs.
Gillies gave her cead mile faille. The Rev.
James is as entertaining as when he was
assistant at the Scots’ Church in Collius-
street, and Mrs. Gillies is always enthusi-
astic over her native wattle land. The
widow of one of the “Karri” Davies brothers,
who now lives at Oxford, was another of Miss
Veitch’s hostesses.
Pat Busby, youngest daughter of a busi-
ness-like Bathurst medico, is engaged to ColiD
Rogerson, son of the A. F. C. Rogersons, of
Pykedale (Q.).
Mrs. Cecil Purser and Mrs. G. Lane Mul-
lins spread the teacloth at the Queen’s Club
last week to wish bon voyage to surgeon
Maitland's widow and her sister, Miss Cook;
also to Mrs. W. R. Glasson, of Gamboola,
Molong, and daughter Janet. Toung Cecil
Purser has booked Miss Glasson for a matri-
monial engagement when she returns with
a Paris trousseau.
Mrs. W. F. Forster is another intending
voyager who is being feted. Mrs. Samuels,
Mayoress of Vaucluse, staged a theatre party
last week, and Mrs. Charles Rayner gave a
tea at her Bellevue home. Daughter-in-law
Mrs. Fred Forster Was at both receptions.
This trek is to be a family affair; the M.L.A.
and his sons having undertaken to relieve
the ladies of all luggage worries.
Gladys Brake, one of Sydney Sun’s
staff, made up her mind to try her luck in
London a fortnight ago. and will leave by
the Alstcr next week. Over 20 of her sister
scribes gathered at the H’orseshoe Cafe the
other afternoon to say good-bye and wish
her luck, and give her a gold pencil where-
with to write home occasionally, Mary Lid-
dell and Fanny Marlay voiced sentiments of
farewell that showed what a warm friendship
may exist between the feminine staffs of
rival rags.
A fine record is that of Mrs. George Cohen,
who formed the Sydney Jewish Help-In-
Need Society 31 years ago, and is now life
president. At 78, Mrs. Cohen has never missed
a meeting of her society, and she still can-
vasses subscribers for their contributions,
warning them that gifts will still be
required after she is gone. The society has
no paid officers, and does all its its adminis-
tration work on something less than a pound
a year.
From “A.G.M.,” London :
There has been a further sale of Lord Carrington’s
effects—even London friends often speak of the late
Marquess of Lincolnshire by his older and more
familiar title. The household goods at Daws Hill,
High Wycombe, have found other owners. One of
the quaintest things in the mansion was the part of
the Carrington State coach which was used at
tile Coronation of Edward VII. and which was
subsequently turned into a settee. The death of
the Marquess’s only son in the war was a great
blow to him, but no one ever better concealed his
sorrow under an invariably cheerful demeanor.


TRY THIS FOR
RHEUMATIC PAINS.
Nothing like Harrison’s Pills for rheumatism, back-
ache, groin pains, painful urination, depleted vitality
due to uric-acid disorders, genito urinary and bladde'r
troubles. No matter how many things have failed
you, Harrison’s Pills will do you good, for they
remove the cause of the trouble. A Hospital Nurse
says: “You might be interested to know that the
success of Harrison’s Pills in treating Kidney and
Bladder Troubles . Backache , etc., has been such that
I have recommended this remedy to scores of patients,
and I can testify definitely to their unusual efficacy,
and great value for use in these painful troubles
If you want to get rid of your ageing aches and
pains quickly— get a package of Harrison’s Pills from
the nearest chemist to-day, 2/- Trial Size, 3/- Stand-
ard Size, and 5/- Large Size. If not delighted with
results —money back !
X
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess Insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CO.NMCU, STREET, SYDNEY.
as
In Days of Old
White hair was
all the vogue.
In modern days
grey or white
hair is consid-
ered a sign of
approaching
age.
It is NOT “THE
THING."
All traces of Grey can readily be removed
by an application of
Dr. Allen’s (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Sold at all Chemists and Stores.
Harmless, easy
to apply, can-
not be detected
Australian Agents:
DUERDIN AND
SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street,
Melbourne.
ė
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
“THE AGE”
Established 185Jf.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
If your sales in Victoria have' not reached
the high level which the quality and price of
your products demand, include
“THE AGE”
in future allocations for the State. By this
means your sales message will enter the homes
and offices of
123,533
daily subscribers
who have confidence in the publication which
for 74 years has been the BUSINESS BUILDER
that discriminate advertisers have long esteemed
and valued.
“THE AGE” PUBLISHES OVER
1,000,000 ADVERTISEMENTS
ANNUALLY.
Advertising Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO..
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
“Suburban ”
Afforestation
A.N.Z.I.L.
Every person who has read or has been told
about afforestation—whether he has invested
or not —should send for particulars now of
PERPETUAL INCOME
THRIFT BONDS.
AND
investment and an entirely new conception of afforestation offering
IMMEDIATE, INTERMEDIATE and FUTURE RETURNS, with the soundest principles of
scientific and properly : conducted planting for profit yet offered.
Afforestation and Flax—Plus Interest and Insurance.
Investigate!—To do so is to INVEST.
AUSTRALIAN & NEW ZEALAND INVESTMENTS, LTD.,
17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
/
Polished Oak Cabinets, com •
pletely fitted with Prince’s
Plate Spoons and Forks and
“Trustworthy” Cutlery, are
available from £7/10/- to
£lOO. A catalogue will be
sent upon request.
m
Visitors
to London
idappin & Webb have the distinction of
being one of the oldest Firms of Gold
and Silversmiths, Jewellers, and Dress-
ing Bag Makers in the World, and they
extend a cordial invitation to visitors
from the Commonwealth to call when
in London. i
The Oxford Street and Regent Street
Showrooms are within 5 minutes by
taxi from the leading Hotels; the City
Showrooms are quite near St. Paul’s
Cathedral, The Tower of London, Guild-
hall, and opposite The Mansion House.
MAPPIMTWEBB
JEWELLERY-WATCHES • CLOCKS • SILVERWARE
PRINCE S PLATE • FANCY C LEATHER GOODS.
: LONDON SHOWROOMS ;
158162,0XF0RD STw.i.I72.REGENT S?w.i.2.QUEEXYICTORIA STe.c .4.
A WONDERFUL INCLUSIVE TOUR
Battlefields and War Graves of
GALLIPOLI, FRANCE
and BRITAIN
Leaving Sydney June 4, 1929
S.S. “BARADINE” (13,000 tons)
via Australian Ports, Colombo, Suez Canal, to Port Said, thence first-class
steamer to Palestine, Gallipoli, Constantinople, Athens, Naples and Marseilles,
then by rail to Paris, Amiens, Battlefields, Brussels, The Mole to London.
Tour includes visit to England and Scotland
Leave London for Scotland and the English Lakes District by the World-famous
h lying Scotsman, of the London and North-Eastern Railway Co., Ltd.
4 to 5 MONTHS’ TOUR, £230
Party Limited. Book Now'. Illustrated literature free, on application.
Apply BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, FREMANTLE, etc.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Sold by All Good Motor Houses, Service
Stations and Hardware Stores at 2/6 Small .
Cans; 5/- Large Cans. In case you cannot /
Simonizing is so easy,
and costs so little. Yet is so
necessary because it makes the
finish more durable and beau-
tiful—and keeps colors
from fading.
Simoniz
and Simoniz
Kleener, wonderful
paste compounds, are applied
with a cloth. A container of each
will keep a car looking
new for a long
time.
Simoniz Kleener quickly
removes all dirt, scum and
tarnish —and restores lustre and
color. Simoniz gives lasting
protection to the
finish.
zinohis
APPLY WITH
A CLOTH.
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
M
A
D
E
I
N
A
U
S
T
R
A
L
I
A
ę
SIMONIZ
PRODUCT—
SIMONIZ
PENETRATING
GRAPHITE
OIL
•‘LOOSENS TILE TIGHTEST NUT.”
Simoniz Penetrating: Graphite Oil
instantly
DISSOLVES RUST,
LUBRICATES CAR SPRINGS,
STOPS CHASSIS AND BODY
SQUEAKS,
FREES GUMMED MOTOR VALVES,
LOOSENS ALL TIGHT NUTS
AND BOLTS.
Sold in nandv Boz. can with long spout. Price, 2/6.
IF YOU CANNOT OBTAIN SIMONIZ PRODUCTS
FROM YOUR USUAL DEALER, SEND POSTAL
NOTE TO
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS,
MOTORITE EQUIPMENTS PTY., LTD.,
Carlton, Melbourne,
and goods will be sent POST FREE.
CDITC CAMPI FQ 0F SIMONIZ AND
rKEL oHIKIrLtO KLEENER ON REQUEST.


A Perfect aloss
FIRST
SOLD
1792
JRowland's
Oil
A. ROYv jl/ tv -/i.o, i.A-..,
H 2 Guilford Street. London, W.C.I, England.
A GLOSSY, healthy-
looking head of hair
can be yours—it’s _no
secret; just comb a little
Rowland’s Macassar Oil
thoroughly into the hair
twice a day. It feeds your
hair and prevents weak-
ness and falling out.
Of all Chemists,
Stores and Hair-
dressers. Red for
dark hair; golden
for fair or grey
'air.
©fie WENTWORTH
Unanimously voted the Coolest Place in Sydney, it is the
choice of the discriminating hostess for the entertaining of her
guests, afternoon or evening.
On Mondays the whole of the Ballroom and Palm Court is
reserved for Bridge Players. Other afternoons, “Lyn” Christie
and his rhythmic symphonists make fly the hours between
3 and 5.30.
A perfect cuisine, exhilarating music, a satin-smooth floor—
what more could you have to make your Dinner or Supper
Party an unqualified success?
Order Wines before 6 p.m. For Tables, Ring BsVI 361
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 Georae Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Ten Rooms
[?] Comtral 800[?]
Buckeley e-Nunn, Limited
[?]
Though she has be.u on the sick-list for
the last three months, Mrs. Leslie Stuart
permitted her home, Logan House, to be
invaded on Friday afternoon by bridge-
players and in the evening by dancers to help
St. Martin’s Home for Boys. The South Yarra
and St. KiTda committee engineered the par-
ties. Ninety tables were occupied by the bridge-
players, much to the delight of the lion, secs.,
Mrs. .1- H. Hewison and Mrs. Alfred Couch-
man. The gathering was purely a feminine
one that didn’t mind paying extra for every-
thing—tea, raffles, sweets and cigarettes. The
Raws lady, whose navy blue suit was
simtnehed with black braid and topped by a
bright blue velvet hat, conducted a stall with
Mrs. Richard Linton and Mrs. Richard Fit-
clier. and Mrs. O’Hara Wood checked the
receipts.
A couple of hours after the card-
tables had been folded away a smaller con-
tingent arrived, mostly of the unattached set,
and flitted over the ballroom with its splendid
floor and magnificent crystal chandeliers, re-
flected in long mirrors. The adjoining room,
cosy with radiators and easy chairs, had
decoration of dahlias and autumn foliage.
An indulgent nurse permitted Mrs. Stuart
to make a short appearance, and the welcome
she received appeared to do her good. Wear-
ing black satin with a dash of fawn, Mrs.
Stuart held quite a court with her pretty
daughter Lavender, who is on the casualty-
list, having met with an accident while
playing tennis, and likely to be on crutches
for some time. Her frock was of georgette
of lapis-lazuli hue. Mrs. Loxton Dougliarty,
in black spotted net, and Cora Spowers,
whose draperies were of rust color, secre-
taried the hop. Mrs. Ernest Poolman, with
touches of green upon her black gown, and
Miss L. Nyulasy, in a bunchy frock of shot
blue and mauve taffeta, assisted Mrs. Stuart
to supervise the commissariat for both par-
ties. The lion. sec. of the general committee,
Mrs. Beecliam Kiddle, whose burnishpd-
sequin coat was worn over a pale pink
gown, presided over a stall of carnival caps
and novelties.
Mrs. Roy McLennan struck a happy
combination with a flowered georgette frock
and a matching short coat in brocaded
lame. Mrs. Hewison’s mauve gown had
a sparkle of amethyst and crystal embroid-
ery. and Mrs. Couchman cheered a black
gown with a vivid shawl. IVlrs. W. M.
Robins came in filmy black lace, and Mrs.
Fitclier’s silver-and-crystal coiffure cap topped
a gown that was pale pink and black in
sections. Mrs. Cordia displayed jewellery
that matched her wine-colored raiment.
Valerie Moule, who was in the party of the
president, Mrs. J. F. W. Payne, wore cherry-
red satin that dipped gracefully at the back,
and Alyson Fenner was enveloped _ to the
ankles in powder-blue tulle with a pink rose
or two straying amid the folds.
Commem. celebrations developed on Satur-
day morning into a mere wandering about
the city of Uni. students in fancy dress.
Large young men attired as small boys
trundled hoops up and down Collins-street
and dodged the traffic on scooters. Foot-
paths were blocked by admiring crowds de-
lighting in the spectacle of a very masculine
Mother Grundy belaboring with her umbrella
a youth in scanty flapper attire. These frolics
are not what they used to be.
The afternoon, according to custom, was
given up to the conferring of degrees and
a garden party, the hosts being the Chancel-
lor, Vice-Chancellor and council of the Uni.
There was the usual colorful procession of
dons through Wilson Hall, and a feature of
the ceremony was the cloud of sweet girl
graduates whose skirts just brushed their
knees as they descended from the platform
invested in the rank and privileges of learned
faculties. They looked much younger than
their co-workers of the opposite sex. Deco-
rum reigned, with an occasional flutter of
levity when a Christian name was rather
startling. Among those admitted as bachelors
of arts were a Sister of Charity and a totally
blind student. In a short after-address
Chancellor MacFarland welcomed the new-
comers to the professorial staff —Professor
Giblin, of the Chair of Economics, and Dr.
T. M. Cherry, whose long suit is Maths.
The sun shone only in spasms and the wind
blew icily about the lawn, where the Chan-
cellor shook hands with some of the 1400
garden-party guests. There was very little
loitering on the sward, though a band
played, inspection of the new geology and
botany buildings and the four o’clock
refreshment being more favored. A post-
script was the handing-over of a por-
trait of the late Prof. .Marshall Halt to
the Con., the gift of a number of admirers.
Among the guests were the Minister of
Education and Mrs. H. I. Cohen, she in
brown-flecked tweed suit with felt millinery;
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Brookes, the Harrison
Moore lady, wearing chenille-embossed vel-
vet in a blurred design of pink and brown
roses; the Spencer lady, Dr. and Mrs.
Springthorpe, the William Merrys, medical-
knight Syme and his lady, and Mr. and Mrs.
Edward Stevens.
No Commem. week being complete without
its ball, the Uni. students jazzed at St.
lvilda Town Hall, which featured in its
decorations two shades of gold and the coat-
of-arms of the Uni. Hon.-secs. _ Marjorie
Lamble and Balcombe Griffiths,_ aided by a
small committee, were responsible for the
roping-in of 700 dancers. Guests of honor
included medical-knight James Barrett and
Profs. Scott, Agar and Gunn, with their re-
spective life-partners. Miss Lamble floated
about in clouds of deep blue chiffon; Helen
Speeding, one of her lieutenants, was also
in blue, and Mavis Jones chose blue taffeta
with an addition of silver lace.
Wirths’ pavilion glowed with color during
the live days of the Garden Week show.
Dahlias and gladioli were piled tier on tier
in baskets and bowls, and carnations, roses
and other blooms covered the* site of the
circus ring. One end wall of the building was
covered with a bit of the bush, a water-
fall slipping over rocks and through banks of
maiden-hair fern. In the surrounding grounds
potted plants were grouped in mass forma-
tion, and seats shaded by striped umbrellas
tempted the weary to linger. Edna Walling
was responsible for a plot behind a palisade
of ti-ti'ees with gates of saplings, where a
fountain splashed over miniature orange-
trees. A wandering flagged path bordered
with foliage plants, with a bird-bath at the
end, served as setting for Michael Connell’s
garden pottery. Several new varieties of
dahlia were catalogued, two attractive pink
shades being labelled respectively Mrs. A.
Cobb and Dr. IT. Spath. Lady Stonehaven
was immortalised in a large yellow bloom of
close centre with petals curved in a nice
permanent wave. Lady Somers has had a
chrysanthemum named for her—a loose
Turk’s head goldeny-brown affair. Also there
was a veritable purple dahlia, the Purple
King. One of the founders of the six-years-old
show was the late John Cronin, formerly
director of the Melbourne Botanic Gardens ;
and the Cronin Memorial Scholarship, which
entitles the holder to a two-years’ course at
the Burnley School of Horticulture, was one
of the firstfruits of the combined show.
Other offshoots are the Tree Planters’ Associ-
ation and the Flower Day for charity. An
early visitor to the show was her Ex. of S.A.,
Lady Horc-Rutliven, who was on her way
home from Sydney. Mayor Luxton, who was
accompanied by his wife, said the opening
words.
Here is George Faulkner, one of our Reper-
tory Society players, who appeared as Charlie
B e n t h a m,
the school-
teacher in the
society’s recent
nroduction of
Sean O'Casey’s
“Juno and the
Paycock.” He
has done good
work in other
plays under
Frank Clew-
low’s gui d-
ance, and is
assistant - pro-
ducer for the
State Savings
Bank Drama-
tic Club. The
O’Casey play
fllled the Kel-
in Hall to
overdo wing
very night of
its season.
The rose may be the queen of flowers, but
she doesn’t last long after cutting, so the
entries at the National Rose Society’s show
at the Town H'all wei-e auctioned in the
evening, after a one-day showing, for the
cause of charity. Recent heavy rains handi-
capped the rose-fanciers, but they put for-
ward a brave array. Alister Clark sent
along great non-competitive supplies of seed-
lings from Glenara, crowned by a whole tree
of Sunny South. Artist Blamire Young’s
blooms, though they m’ssed the judge’s eye,
were very br-autiful. Lieut.-Commandor
Prideaux was mo T> e fortunate, and his bunch
bore a ticket. Championship honors were
gained by the president of the society, T.
A. Stewart, with a lovely specimen of
Maman Cechot that bad just a suggestion
of pink about its white petals. A grouping
of hot-house plants from the Fitzroy Gar-
dens and autumn-tipped fo’iago from an
exhibitor at Macedon made a background for
the show, whieh was opened by Mrs. Norman
Brookes. snnplomrnt''d by a friendly word or
two from Mayor Buxton.
The doors of Greenknoxve, the home of
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Knox, were thrown
open during the week for a bridge party to
replenish the coffers of the Toorak branch
of the Alfred Hospital. Takings were sup-
plemented by sales of flowers, sweets and
so forth. Among the helpers were Mrs.
Robert Knox, Mrs. Stanley Argyle (pre-
sident of this auxiliary), Mrs. Russell Grim-
wade, Mrs Rupert Downes, Mrs. Hubert
Parker, a few other matrons and a bunch
of bonny girls.
Norris G. Bell, the benign head of the
Commonwealth railways, is due to retire
II .• X l iUOULU.
.{oil holds the
record for
Austral ian
railways com-
mjssion ers,
having ruled
the scattered
sections of
the Federal
system for 15
years. He
built th> e
Trans, line, as
well as one-
seventh of all
the lines in
the country,
as either en-
gineer or com-
missioner. A
sturdy critic
o f political
side steppers,
he lias always
advocated the Federal spirit, which cuts
across the vested interests of the States, in
the matter of muddled gauges and barriers
against through fares and freights. One of
his proudest boasts is that he has not used
an imported rail since Australian rolling-
mills were established.
The bunch of English schoolboys now look-
ing over Australia put in here the other day
from Sydney, and at once christened this city
the Paris of the continent. They came when
things were looking their best —the world
well washed after a week’s rain, with warm
sunlight gleaming upon trees arrested in their
1< af-shedding, and flowers everywhere. The
E.-S.U., through its young people’s commit-
tee, called the lads to a dance at No. 9 and
invited plenty of flappers. The vice-president
of the union, D, G. Lumsden, welcomed the
boys and their guides, J. It. Darling, Smith
Dorian, M. Scott and F. Portal. Mrs. Lums-
den, with gold and tourmaline-pink bead
embroidery upon an apricot-hued gown, and
Dr. Ethel Osborne, clad in black georgette,
seconded the greeting. Lynette Young, who
was lion, sec., wore a frock reminiscent of
a harvest sunset, and her lieutenant, Muriel
Clarke, was a contrast in black georgette
and lace. A few matrons mingled with the
young folk, amongst them being Mrs. Harold
Clapp, in sulphur-yellow with a zig-zag hem-
line ; Mrs. R. R. Stawell, in black lace; Mrs.
C. W. Watson and Mrs. H'. J. Robertson.
Elizabeth Stawell danced in delphinium-blue
and Gwen Plcasance in almond-green. The
captains of our big pubic schools —
Grammar. Scotch College, Xavier and Wesley
—were invited to the jollo.
There was a strong theatrical flavor about
the party staged at Mcnzies’ to say good-bye
to Kerry Kelly, now aboard the Moreton
Bay bound for Blighty. Miss Kelly, who
made her final bow here in “Marionettes”
with the Margaret Bannerman co., is a native
of Wales who came to Vic. at the age of
three. Her father is the manager of a fash-
ionable Collins-street store. Hostesses
of the farewell were Mrs. Jim Angus, Mrs.
Edgar Dye, Mrs. H. J. Robertson and Mrs.
J. B. Mills, all well tailored in cloth with
felt hats; Mrs. N"il Lawranc'v in « *t p'"k
with black embroidery and blending mil-
linery; Mrs. T. Crisp, wearing mgg . orowu
crepe de Chine; and Maisie Bennett, in
ensemble of black over a frock of fawn silk.
The guest of honor, who was given a hand-
bag, was a study in grey and reseda green.
About 100 members of the E.-S.U., almost
all women, explored, at the invitation of the
management, the Kraft-Walker cheese fac-
tory on the south bank of the Yarra the
other day. It is only about six months since
this company, which was launched in 1926,
took possession of the new building, where
cheese collected from every State in the
Commonwealth undergoes the processes that
provide the various Kraft flavors. The
industry, which is daily consuming the out-
put of a herd of about 10,000 cows, employs
about 160 workers, including about 60 girls.
The girls, in collaboration, invented their
uniform, which consists of butcher-blue linen
trousers, white jumpers bordered with blue,
and blue Dutch caps. The men mostly
affect all white, with little pork-pie caps
b'k"' those of Uncle Sam’s “gobs,” but an
all-khaki turnout is permissible and used by
some. Two girl chemists are employed in
the laboratory; and Audrey Osborne, daugh-
ter of Prof. Osborne of the Uni., is bac-
teriologist. Piecework is much in vogue in
this establishment, and the results seem tc
satisfy those on both sides of the bargain.
The Yarra Yarra Golf Club engineered
a Day” for its women
members, and there were foursomes,
splendid prizop and tea. Mrs. G. Brooke
Hutchings, chief lady of the club, pro-
vided a feast of Gargantuan dimensions
-—the basketfuls left over gave the kiddies
in a certain hospital an unexpected treat.
The prizes went to Mrs. It. Spooner and
Miss It. Fenton. The hostess, who was not
a player, wore an ensemble of black-striped
satin topped by a simple black straw hat.
In “Ivempy,” which opened on Saturday
night at the Comedy Theatre, only Muriel
Starr, who takes the role of Kate, the
superior young woman who yearned for a
career, wears anything out of the ordinary
in clothes. A peach-pink evening frock that
spreads a peacock’s-tail effect and is slightly
applyjued in flower-like bits in mauve, pink
and green is one confection, and there’s also
an apple-green tea-gown with some pink
feather trimming and gold lace. A floral
decoration handed to the leading lady was a
large star perched on a base of gladioli.
Mrs. T. Quirk, the George Bussells, Dr.
Barry Thomson (now quite recovered from
his accident), Mrs. Thomson and the Charlie
Taits were first-nighters.
Dr. Ethel Osborne, wife of Prof. Osborne,
stepped oil an ocean-liner last week after a
nine months’ tour which included attendance
at the Pan-Pacific Conference at Honolulu
and a visit to Geneva, where she conferred
with Sir Eric Drummond, secretary-general
of the League of Nations, and others in
reference to tin; Pan-Pacific Women’s Con-
ference of 1030. Journeying to Budapest,
she attended a conference upon industrial
accidents and diseases, and saw something
of Britain, the U.S.A., Fiji and Maoriland
before coming home.
Australian visitors to London will miss
the kindly services of J. B. Whiting, one
of the many victims of Fogtown’s cold
winter. Many years ago the S.A. Government
appointed him secretary to its Agent-
General’s oflice. Since then chiefs have
come and gone, but J. B. Whiting has re-
mained at his job, and, though he avoided
social life, was always willing to show
lonely folk from his homeland the run of the
ropes, i He died a bachelor.
In addition to spending the £50,000 pro-
vided by the Commonwealth, and a few thou-
sands over, in building a new dining-room
at Parliament House, the State Government
is overhauling the electric-light installation
at the cost of several thousand pounds more.
An extra lift is being put in at an outlay
of £lBOO for the convenience of Assembly
members, and £3OO-odd is being spent on a
cyclone fence to replace the unsightly gal-
vanised-iron one skirting Gisborne-street on
the south-east side. Now that they are back
in their old home, State legislators are be-
ginning to understand how expensive is the
upkeep of the place.
Honoring a promise given by Lawson when
he was Premier six or seven years ago,
McPherson, head of the present Government,
has arranged to give £50,000 towards the
erection of the war memorial on the Grange
end of the Domain, St Kilda-road. The
money will be paid at the rate of £5OOO a
year for 10 years. The City Council has sup-
plied £50,000, and the public close on
£150,000. It looks as if all the trimmings
of the original design will now be included.
Some of the public subscriptions have come
from municipal councils, 'which, like the
State, will pay by instalments. The influence
of General John Monash, and, it might be
added, his tact- have had quite a lot to do
with, the realisation of the memorial project.
It seemed to be almost a hopeless scheme
five years ago when Premier Prendergast
refused to help and said he preferred a hos-
pital. Premier Hogan took much the same
stand, but made the site available for the
shrine.
After an absence of two years in Europe
Mrs. W. G. Sharp is settling down in her
old home in Queen’s-road. In London she
found shelter with her daughter, Mrs. Guy
Watts, but a great part of her time was
spent in the south of France, and, still fol-
lowing the sun, she had a trip through the
West Indies which proved a most enjoyable
experience. Why sun-lovers leave Australia
is one of those things that would puzzle
Lord Dundreary.
Mrs. G. T. Langridge and Mrs. T. A.
Tabart are going into business for a while
in the interests of the Women’s Hospital
Appeal. These two philanthropic workers
will deal in second-hand bric-a-brac, silver,
pictures, furniture and antiques. The sign
of their old curiosity shop will dangle
in front of one of the just-completed
shops at the side of the Regent Theatre, in
the arcade leading from Collins-street to
Flinders-lane. Hoyt’s contribution is to let
the shop rent-free. Now all that remains is
to collect the stock, and an appeal for dona-
tions has been sent out.
The Barry Thomsons’ son John, who had
an offer of a Hollywood try-out, decided to
first test the box-office value of his linea-
ments on the dog—which means the Aus-
tralian populace—so he is doing a junior-
lead part with Gerald Hayles’s company of
cinema-players. Hayles lias had bad luck
with previous attempts, but his latest enter-
prise, “Rushing Tide,” promises better things.


On aristocracy
STANDING alone on a
of excellence,
owing much to inheritance,
English Bone China is the very
aristocracy of table ware. The
world looks to Staffordshire
for the china of gentlefolk. In
what connoisseurs call colour—
rather the very absence of
colour Shelley’s “ Dainty
White ” cups, saucers, plates,
which look white in a snow-
drift, are English Bone China
at its best.
Ask to see the
SHELLEY
LATEST
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
* China
Nursery Ware
by Lucie Attweu
fc Hilda Cowham
Dome stic Ware
Jelly Moulds
• MTUM MAPI
IN CASK OP AMY DIFFICULTY IN OBTAINING
WRITS TO
T*V. MtATI-
“Benger’s Food
has saved my
baby’s life ”
—so says an Australian
mother, whose baby is now
thriving splendidly.
Bab es thrive upon Benger’s,
because it is ahvavs preptred
with new milk. Benger’s
emichesthe milk a d adapts
it to ihe delicate digestion of
a child.
N/ Regd. Traub Mark.
Send for Benper'e Booklet, poet fret.
BENGER'S FOOD, Ltd.,
350, George Street. SYDNEY.
Handsome Men Have
Well-groomed Hair.
“Oh, I thought you were much older than that,
I suppose your hair gives that impression.” Not
very tactful, but that’s how women think of a man
whose hair is thin or grey. Keep your hair young
and you are young. Use “Vi-Glo,” and watch
results! See it grow new hair in quick time; see
the rich color come back; the grey tinged go!
Watch the Ladies! You’ll know by that how success-
ful “Vi-Glo” is. Don’t regard “Vi-Glo” as a hair
wash ; it’s a scientific scalp-invigorator. C'OBts only
3/- for the complete outfit at any chemist's, or you
can get it by post for 3/4 from Vi-Glorient Company,
Ivembla Building, Sydney. Money back if not sur-
prised and delighted with the quick results.
Winchester Rifle, Model 56
22-Cal. Long Rifle only
Handles well
and
Shoots well.
ě
The Rifle
for Small Game
Price, £5. Post free to all parts of
Australia.
The Gun House,
COWLES DUNN,
Write for Catalogue B.
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
PROGRESS!
The 80th ANNUAL REPORT of the
A.M.P. SOCIETY
for the year 1928 discloses:—
NEW BUSINESS completed £21,352,160
CASH SURPLUS to be distributed amongst
participating members 3,270,000
PAID TO MEMBERS or their dependents. . . . 4,072,305
ASSETS at 31st December, 1928 73,776,235
PAID TO MEMBERS or their dependents since establishment the immense
sum of NINETY-ONE MILLION POUNDS.
Provide for your dependents—make provision for your old age—secure
a profitable investment by effecting a policy with
AUSTRALIA’S FOREMOST LIFE OFFICE.
Write or ’phone for prospectus.
F . T. BRIDGES, Acting General Manager.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 8W2354.
Branch and District Offices throughout Australia and New Zealand.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
America
%
Sleep
Meter
%
0
2
O
4
10
2
5
9
3
"Wl*|
4
7
5
Pocket Ben
%
Bobu Ben
%
Famous Quality Timepieces
YOU’RE sure of a thoroughly reliable
timepiece when you buy a Westclox,
for only the finest quality of workmanship
and materials goes into alarm clocks and
watches wearing that name.
Select a Westclox with confidence. Any
one of them will give you long satisfactory
timekeeping service.
Prices from 8/6 to 28/6.
Built by the makers of Big Ben and other Westclox
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
BROWN & DUREAU LTD., Distributors for Australia
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - PERTH • BRISBANE
COME NORTH
Where the Sun is Always Shining and the SJ^y
is Clear
WORLD TRAVELLERS Say: North Queensland is Fairyland. Scenery
Rivals the Best Anywhere. Whitsunday Passage and Hinchinbrook
Channel Surpass in intrinsic Beauty the most-famed Waterways of
the World.
CALM, CORAL SEAS, ISLAND-GEMMED, REEF-SHELTERED.
Vast Pastoral Plains, Wonderful Artesian Bore Waters.
I : 0 ;
.
% ■#•
BARRON GO RGB, CAIRNS RAILWAY, NORTH QUEENSLAND.
QUEENSLAND
QUEENSLAND
For FINEST RAILWAY SCENIC TRIP,
Brisbane to Cairns-Barron Falls, through
vast Sugar Plantations and Tropical
Fruit Farms.
GREAT WATERFALLS, CRATER
LAKES, CAVES, Tropical Blooms and
Colored Foliage.
Inquire regarding Bookings for Railways “RESO” Winter Tours.
Booklets and all Particulars Free from; —
Government Intelligence and Tourist Bureau
Ann-Edward Streets, BRISBANE.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
56 Margaret Street.
T. C. TROEDSON,
Director


WHITWOfIfy
t*
a?
o' -
c°
r
/a
n
\
i.
*
, i
<
J
w.
ONE OF FIFTY LOCOMOimS
SUPPLIED TO THE G.W.R.
SIR W. G. ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH & CO., LTD.
Sales organisation: KINNAIRD HOUSE, PALL MALL EAST, LONDON, SAV.I. Works and Shipyards: NEWCASTLE-UPON-TYNE.
AGENTS: Messrs. GILBERT-LODGE & CO., Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide.
M.C.729.
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
HAS ACCEPTED
®fp Register
NEWS PICTORIAL
with the utmost enthusiasm.
ALL THE NEWS!
ALL THE PICTURES!
The State’s First Morning
Pictorial.
Largely increased Sales
already assured.
Arrange Contracts at
present rates.
HEAD OFFICE: REGISTER NEWS-
PAPERS, LIMITED, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative: Eric N. Birks,
Sydney. Tel. X 5187.
Melbourne Representative: G. N.
Bednall, “Argus” Building, Mel-
bourne. Tel. F 4502.
e
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
Accurate Hand-loaded Ammunition.
Ideal Reloading Tools Give Excellent Results and
,250
390
Complete line of bullet
moulds and gas checks
for all calibres. Price,
10/6 per 1000 up to
25 C.; 12/6 per 1000
over.
Save You Money.
Shooters —open the way to more hunting and target shooting.
Reload your favorite cartridges. You’ll find Ideal Reloading
Tools turn out the work easily and cleanly. Every reloader
needs the Ideal Handbook com-
plete information. Sent on receipt of
2/G or Free Folder.
è
Ideal new improved single bullet
mould with interchangeable blocks.
Price, 25/- each.
IDEAL No. 3
_ W,TH
double adjustable
fcw CHAMBER
Ideal No. 3 Adjustable Reloading
Tool, for cartridges such as .22
C.F., .25-20, .22 Hi-Power, .303
British, etc. Price, 39/6 each.
For prompt reply, send your inquiries for literature to our exclusive representatives:
ASHER SMITH, LIMITED, P.O. Box 966 GG, Sydney N S.W.
THE LYMAN GUN SIGHT CORP., 60 West Street, Middlefield, Conn., U.S.A.
The GC/XALI)
LIN Co/BEAUTY
Typically French In its slender, grace-
achieving lines, this hookaround by
Gossard is a favourite among average
figures. Made of brocade, with panels
of woven elastic, it shows an elastic
top that extends around the back and
sides. The slightly raised waistline at
the center front controls the dia-
phragm. The bandeau is of flower-
patterned material and narrows at
the back to an elastic insert.
THE
XILHCUETTE
IT CHANGING
Natural contours, says Paris, to re-
place the long-popular straight lines.
And new Gossard designs bring the
smartest silhouette effects to women
of discrimination.
Here you see a hook-around by
Gossard, developed in elastic and
brocade. It is lightly reinforced and
boned at the back and over the abdo-
men. Worn with a narrow bandeau
of double net, which hooks both in
the front and back.
“Like custom-made,” says one woman
to another, describing the appearance
and feeling of being Gossard cor-
seted. No other garments compare
with Gossards —they are truly in-
imitably smart.
The
Canadian H. W. Gossard
Co., Ltd.
114-120 Castlereagh Street
SYDNEY, N. S. W.
GOSSARDS ARE MADE WITHIN
THE EMPIRE


Accommodation
160.
Central,
Gomfortable,
Convenient,
5 Mts. G.P.O.
Excellent
Cuisine,
Billiards,
Dancing.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TARIFF:
Weekly,
£3/3/- to
£4/4/-
Daily,
11/6 to 13/6.
Room & B'fast,
8/6 to 9/6
FL2034
F 3575
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT SONG
ROYAL: PAVLOVA
CRITERION: YOUNG WOODLEY
PALACE: NO. 17
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd,
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
THE VAGABOND KING.
ROYAL:
THIS YEAR OF GRACE.
£IN G ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT,
NELLIE STEWART as
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY.
MEW COMEDY THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
RUTH NUGENT and ALLAN BUNCE in
KEMPY.
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
MILES MANDER in
THE PHYSICIAN.
(Brit. Dominion Film)
AND
JAMIESON THOMAS and LILLIAN HALL DAVIS in
THE WHITE SHEIK.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 QUEENSLAND—ROCKHAMPTON.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
No. 8 of 1929.
Mr. Justice Brennan.
BETWEEN MARTHA HARKNESS
STURMFELS Plaintiff and GEORUE
EMILE STURMFELS Defendant.
To GEORGE EMILE STURMFELS.
TAKE NOTICE that MARTHA HARK-
NESS STURMFELS of Blackall in the
State of Queensland has commenced an
action against you iq the Supreme Court of
Queensland at Rockhampton by Writ dated
the nineteenth day of February 1929 claim-
ing a dissolution of marriage on the ground
of your desertion AND that if you wish to
defend the said action vou should cause an
appearance to be entered for you in the
Supreme Court Rockhampton within thirty
days of the date of this publication AND
that in default of your so doing the said
Martha Harkness Sturmfels may by leave
of the Court or a Judge proceed therein
and Judgment may be given in your absence.
DATED the Twenty-eighth day of March.
1929.
(L.S.) J. R. GAIR,
Registrar.
A. E. SYMES.
Solicitor for the Plaintiff,
Blackall.
Rockhampton Agents: GRANT & STUMM,
Quay Street. Rockhampton.
Personal and Missing Friends.
CILLS.—HENRY GEORGE SILLS, last
heard of Sydney. Occupation carnenter.
Mother died. Please write, giving address, to
B. D. SILLS, Box 254, Port Elizabeth,
South Africa.
Wanted.
YV7 ANTED, position on a station in Queens-
w land or N. S. Wales, by a young man
well educated.
Good references. Apply
JOHN MALONEY,
Cowwtirr,
Gippsland.
FOR ALL SPORT
BUY
THE SPORTING GLOBE
The Leading Australian Authority with the largest
staff of Sporting Experts and Special Representatives
in all States. The staff includes:—
“MUSKET” The Turf
“BAIL” Cricket
W. S. SHARLAND Football
PAT O’HARA WOOD Tennis
J. J. MAHER Cycling
J. M. DILLON Golf
A. L. DOBIUE Rowing
TOM MORLEY Coursing
MAURIE COLLINS Bowls
H. C. BROOKE Yachting
New South Wales edition available' —
every Thursday, price 3d.
RENOWN BRAND
ROPES & CORDAGE
Manufactured at Mascot by
J. SCOTT, LIMITED
Head Office and Stores:
163 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY
’Phone: 82861. Box 251 DD, G.P.O.
Sisal Fibre for Plaster Sheets.
B££P££FPOM^
ASTHMA
No matter how severe your
ASTHMA, CATARRH, COLD
IN THE HEAD. BRONCHITIS,
etc. Potter’s Asthma Powder
brings immediate and soothing
relief.
Of a'l Medicine Vendors 2/6 per Tin.
POTTER & CLARKE. LTD..
Art liery Lane. London. England
For outdoors use Hotter $ Smoking
Mixture and Cigarettes
fyne
fimt-
A high-grade pencil which
never needs sharpening.
Prices, 7/6 upwards.
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS.
Eat Anything Without Upset.
We Meai Yon Really Can!
Eat what you like—provided you take three tablet*
of Para-Pepsin with it! Result: No pain! Just
stomach peace, and unaccustomed energy. Para-
Pepsin stops only the excess acid, and thus stops
pain without stopping digestion as an anti-acid may.
Try Para-Pepsin and know this genuine relief!
Costs 2/- ; never disappoints. Chemists sell it.
If any illustration in The Bulletin tabes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
contains everything that women
should know—from kitchen to
drawing-room, from cradle to
old age. It is the most remark-
able threepenny - worth ever
printed.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR’
3d.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISDANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Sociel Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Their Exes, went to the Ascot race meet-
ing, Lady Goodwin wearing rose beige mari-
ette with a ciApe de Chine coat and rose-
colored hat and feather. Mabel Weaver, of
Sydney, was in cafe au lait with a fawn
hat, Mrs. Milner Forbes wore pink and blue,
and Mollie Brenan was in black with a
wine-red hat.
A recent event has been the opening of
the new His Majesty’s Theatre, a very
handsome structure, the interior decorations
being in Spanish mission style. There are
nice comfy blue leather-covered chairs, bal-
cony boxes decked out in gold and silver,
amber lighting, and the happy blue of Egypt
faintly indicated through a fretwork along
the rim of the ceiling to make believe it
is always spring and always fine weather.
With Pavlova to open the show a packed
house greeted the appearance of Premier
McCormack, ushered by manager George
Matlieson betwixt the blue folds of the plush
curtain to declare the theatre open. Sir
John Goodwin and all his decorations,
accompanied by Lady Goodwin and a party,
occupied a box near the stage, and the
dress-circle was outlined in red and pink
roses and broad lily leaves.
Neil O’Sullivan’s wedding to Jessie
McEncroe, daughter of the late Dr. J. M.
McEncroe and of Mps. T. R. McKenna,
attracted a crowd of spectators to St.
Stephen’s Cathedral. Archbishop Duhig and
three assisting priests tied the knot. The
High Altar was decked with white roses and
cosmea and the guests’ pews were looped with
golden ribbons. The Sisters of Mercy were
responsible for the decorations. The bride
wore ivory-white satin and a long veil of
unhemmed tulle. H'er string of pearls was
given her by her grandmother, Mrs. J. J.
Buchanan. Roses, eucharist lilies and gladi-
oli formed the bouquet. Blair Ferguson,
Maud McKenna, Morna Beirs and Nancy
Dunlop were bridesmaids in daffodil mari-
ette with green Lucy Locket pockets and
calyx-green hats.
On the same evening, at St. John’s Cathe-
dral, Raymond* son of the late C. B. Keene,
Gurley station, Moree, and of Mrs. C. B.
Keene, Neutral Bay, Sydney, married Mar-
jorie Olive Baker, daughter of the P. N.
Bakers, Gowanbrae, New Farm, Brisbane.
The bride wore ivory mariette with a liand-
’broidered Brussels lace veil, and carried a
posy of eucharist lilies and Japanese anemo-
nes. Dorothy Gray, Gay Keene (Sydney)
and Marion Hancock ’maided in powder-blue
with hats to match. Pink decorated Gowan-
brae for the reception.
Pavlova looks better than when she was
last here, and is well supported by her
company. Forty Russians entertained her
at their club while she was in Brisbane with
the songs, cakes and tarts of their country,
and kiddies in Russian national costume —
as it was before the deluge—took part.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Herewith David J. Lyle, the tenor, well
known not
only in Perth,
but throughout
the States and
M.L. Mr. Lyle
was born in
Bendigo and
received his
musical educa-
tion at the
Marshall Hall
Con. under
Ernst Har-
tung. He was
connected with
costume com-
edy companies
for 20 years,
and settled in
Perth as a
teacher of
singing and
voice produc-
tion some three
years ago.
Though a number of furs came out of stor-
age for the opening day of Polo Week, their
owners were thankful to discard them dur-
ing the afternoon, when a hot sun burst
through banks of black clouds. Fortunately
a sprinkle of rain early in the day settled
most of the dust in the paddock. President
Nelson Pearse and his wife entertained the
v.-r. party at tea, which was served in two
tents of generous proportions decorated with
palms and bamboo foliage. Mrs. Pelloe had
a splendid vantage point from the back of
her hack, Guess Again. Mrs. Oakley wore
a brown tailor-made and a sumptuous fur,
and black ensembles were favored by Mrs.
James Brennan and Mrs. Charlie North.
Mrs. Edgar Meares, very smart in navy, with
a dash of white in her hat, brought Mrs.
Stubbs, who chose her favorite green. Mrs.
McKenzie (better known here as Lois Drum-
mond), whose home is now in Southern India,
was in floral foulard and brought her tail
Scotch husband. A handkerchief scarf
brightened Mavis Holmes’s navy crepe de
Chine; Mrs. Pat Maxwell sported a scarlet
jumper; Miss Paisley was in a rose beige
coat over a frock of the same shade; and
Mildred le Souef was all in jade-green.
The organisers of the Charity Carnival
took out an insurance policy against rain,
but the gods of the weather, after sending
some light misty showers in the morning,
cheered up and smiled through the afternoon.
There were short matches under different
rules of football, trotting, including ladies’
events, motor-cycle races, a high jump, and
wrestling. A fancy-dress football match was a
huge success. Reckoning in tli > harvest of
button sales on the previous day, over £lOOO
was made to help our hospitals.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Tattersall’s Club held its postponed meet-
ing at Victoria Park under dusty conditions.
The P. J. Flannagans being among the over-
sea trippers, Carlyle Marshall and his wife
entertained the official host at luncheon and
afternoon tea. She wore a felt hat, and
the tailors seem to be coming into their own
again judging by the amount of tweed
sported by feminine wearers. The predomi-
nating beige worn went well with the dust.
The E.-S.U. has acquired a very large list
of members. People are beginning to see
that the blood-is-thicker-than-water sentiment
has its practical advantages now so many trip
to Britain and the U.S.A. The union’s first
social gathering of the season was held at
the Wentworth caf6, where Judge Parsons
received the guests, getting support from his
pretty wife, who wore a smart black-fringed
frock. J. Wallace Sandford, recently re-
turned from abroad, gave an address, and
I*. R. Newling sang negro spirituals.
Mayoress Bonython convened a meeting
of women at the Town Hall to see what
could be done to assist the unemployed and
starving in the city. Committees were
formed and a depot arranged for, where
clothing, blankets and food can be sent for
distribution by the different city missions.
When newspaper knight William Sowden
and his bride arrived from Sydney the
Wattle League met them at the station and
presented the lady with a bouquet. The pair
were afterwards entertained at morning tea
at the South Australia by Mrs. P. A. Moss
and Mrs. Phillip Burden prior to their de-
parture by motor for their home at Victor
Harbor.
The United Arts Club gave a social to
welcome Mr. and Mrs. Goodchild, who have
just returned after three years’ travelling in
Europe. They spent much of their time
in Holland.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Lila Harvey, whose bright smile is pictured
here, is the
holder of the
Welsh delega-
tion’s Austra-
lian vocal
championship,
Dr. Floyd
(Melbourne),
adjudicator at
the competi-
tions, award-
ing her 87 out
of a possible
100 marks in
the soprano
sacred - solo
class. At the
recent Laun-
ceston compe-
titions she was
a winner in
the sacred-song
section. Miss
H’arvey is a
Cygnet girl,
but studied singing in Hobart under Lucy
Atkins.
The Brighton Jockey Club held its meet-
ing at Elwick in perfect weather, and there
was a very fair attendance considering how
many folk were out of town for the holi-
days. Summer frocks had a final flutter,
and the lawns were ablaze with autumn
blooms. In the throng were Mr. and Mrs.
Tom Lyons, the W. B. Propstings, Mrs.
Duncan Brown (Ceylon), the Lindsay Millers,
Mrs. E. M. Chapman, the Rex O’Kellys,
Mrs. Pluon Walker, Dr. and Mrs. Frank
Fay, Mrs. Wolfhagen, tall and handsome
Sybil Lyons, Naomi Kennedy and Jean
Swan.
The R.A.N.R. sped parting and welcomed
arriving guests at a dance at the drill-hall,
the farewelled ones being the MacFarlanes,
and the newcomers Lieut.-Commander Sym-
onds, the new naval commandant, and his
wife. His Ex. was present with a party
that included the MacFarlanes, Nicholls,
C.J., and his lady, Capt. and Mrs. Boddam,
Lieut.-Col. and Mrs. A. P. Crisp, Mr. and
Mrs. George Evans, the J. B. Rycrofts and
Lieut.-Col. Thomas. Mrs. MacFarlane
sported black lace with large bow on the
hip, and Mrs. Symonds was in black georg-
ettes with jet and crystal embroideries. The
Chief Justice’s lady, in lime-green and silver,
was an attractive figure.
The 45 English public-school boys who
are making a world tour and who called in
at the Speck on the Moreton Bay will take
away a hazy idea of Tassy, since the rain
never lifted during their visit, harbor, city
and mountains being enveloped in cloud and
wetness. Mayor and Mayoress Wignall
entertained the lads at the Town Hall and
invited 50 girls and boys from our schools
to meet them. Premier McPhee improved
the occasion, and then there was music and
dancing.
The wedding of Kathleen, daughter of
Mrs. and the late J. K. Reid, to J. Clen-
nett was entirely private and quiet owing to
the recent death of her grandmother. Mrs.
E. 11. Scott, a well-known figure in Ilobart.
Mrs. Scott, who was over 90 years of age,
was the widow of the Rev. R. Scott, minis-
ter of St. Andrew’s, and not many years
ago published a slim volume of semi-religious
verse.
The at-home given by the managers of
the Orient S. N. Co. on board the Orford
was well attended, and the management did
its guests remarkably well. Tea was served
in the huge dining-room after the hosts,
among whom, of course, was Commander A.
L. Owens, had received those coming on
board.
NORTHERN TERRITORY.
Darwin.
A travelling showman, with circus and
sideshows, is at present delighting the heart
of every small boy and abo. in Darwin. It
is 10 years since the last circus came to
town.
“Billie” Reade. grand-daughter of the
C. C. Playfords, has had a wedding. Her
husband is G. Freeman, of the Customs.


One of the most dramatic
scenes ever recorded on
the Screen. From a
“Fox” thriller , featuring
George O’Brien.
SSSSSSSKSiK
&
mm
iv.-iv
L-
Sit,
r
i §Pyt
SAWS
fs
m
m
Famous people every -
where rely on Cream of
Yeast for rapid relief
from pain and as a
lightning “pick-me-up,”
Never let “Down” mean
you’re feeling down and off color,
take care! resistance invites real
illness that may, for a time, put you out of the
game.
Take Cream of Yeast and note the lightning
benefit! Headachey feeling gone; step brighter;
a happy smile; a pep that makes you feel like
whistling the latest tune! Just take a couple of
Cream of Yeast tablets now and know the thrill of
having the fight all your own way. Any chemist
or storekeeper sells Cream of Yeast at 1/11, 3/6
and 3/9. Be quite sure you get genuine Cream
of Yeast, the constituents of which are prescribed
by leading medical authorities all over the world.
Famous film-stars and athletes say Cream of
Yeast gives Iron Nerves.” Just try it!
Cream of Yeast results are Unique:
Cream of Yeast gives safe and rapid relief from Stomach troubles, Headache, Nerve Pams, Colds,
Rheumatism, Depression, Tired, “Worn” Feeling, Sleeplessness, etc. It is excellent for Skm troubles.
Cream of Yeast is guaranteed to contain the best yeast procurable (with undestroyed vitamine-
content), scientifically combined with other valuable medicinal constituents prescribed by the highest
medical authorities, in such proportion that benefit is certain, and harm impossible. Cream of Yeast
is made in specially-constructed rooms, by one of the greatest chemical organisations in the whole
world. More Cream of Yeast is sold in Australia than all other brands combined.
CAUTION
If you Want the most effective medicinal yeast compound sold in Australia , you positively MUST
get Cream of Yeast Beware of distorted claims . Avoid unscientific yeast concoctions , the
vitamine-content of which may be destroyed. Cream of Yeast definitely has a real vitamine-content which CANNOT be destroyed .


Closing Date Announced Commonwealth Loan
A gilt-edged: investment for 10 years. - - Get the best out of your investments.
Whether you have £lO or £lO,OOO, take advantage of this new Commonwealth Loan.
Issued at par, and bearing interest at 5| p.c.
No STATE INCOME-TAX is payable on your interest, and you can sell your investment at any time on the Stock Exchange.
Only 10% deposit need be paid at the time of application, and the balance may be paid at any tim? up to 4th June.
THE SAFEST OF ALL SECURITIES.
Full particulars from
BANKS, SAVINGS BANKS, MONEY-ORDER POST OFFICES AND MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES.
THIS LOAN WILL DEFINITELY CLOSE ON FRIDAY, APRIL 19.
Commonwealth Treasury,
Canberra.
«(B)
EARLE
PAGE,
Treasurer.
TEN THOUSAND YEN
By -ERLE A. WILSON
WAKURI-SAN, wheezy, fat and pon-
derous, with pudgy hands crossed
above his silk-swathed middle and
thrust into the wide sleeves of liis costly
kimono, beamed placidly on the handsome
young man seated respectfully before him,
and, in honeyed, velvet tones, endeavored
to quench the light in the bright eyes fixed
steadily on his own.
“No, O-Yosliida-San,” he was saying,
“Q-Ume, my little plum blossom, shall not
wed a moneyless ronyin, even of the august
Samurai. Prove to me that you can do
something of more utility than wander
abroad through the land, swinging a sword
and writing elegant verse. Show me before
the day of Setsubun that you have ten
thousand yen. and I will sanction the union
of my unworthy family with yours. O-Umc,
who is but a child, thinks she loves you,
therefore I give you this opportunity to
prove yourself. These are my last words on
this subject. O-Yosliida-San. And now I
must regretfully deprive myself of your hon-
orably pleasant company. Ivoda-San awaits
me—no Samurai he, no poet, but prosper-
ous ; and he, too. has seen the beauty of
my little plum blossom.”
Reading the finality that lay behind the
smooth delivery of Wakuri’s words, and
writhing inwardly at the last shaft, the
young man, Yoshida Masaki, rose quietly
to his feet, smiling as only a Japanese can
in the face of adversity, bowed deeply thrice
and. with a murmured “Sayonara! O-Wak-
uri-San,” stepped from the incense-laden
atmosphere of Wakuri’s private room, gave
a cheerful greeting to the merchant Ivoda,
who passed him on the threshold, and
threaded his way through the rice and boan-
ating throng of diners in the big tofuya
adjoining.
Ten thousand yen before Setsubun! Ten
days to find ten thousand yen! Kishibojin,
mother of demons —an impossibility! And
Wakuri, the fat old hypocrite, knew it w r as
an impossibility.
So Yoshida’s thoughts ran as he passed
into the bright sunlight that flooded the
Tenimachi the strect-of-rich-merchants,
chief thoroughfare of Matsue —and headed in
the direction of Wakuri’s luxurious resi-
dence on the wooded slope of O-Shiroyama,
whei'e Ume, the desire of his heart, waited
hopefully to hear her corpulent parent’s
answer.
Yes, Wakuri’s object was plain. Koda
owned the only other tofuya .restaurant
worthy of consideration in the town. Koda
was of the chonyin class, a merchant, rich
and of pliable disposition. With careful
handling, to gain the hand of Ume, Koda
would be content to play second fiddle to the
sleek old Wakuri. Ume’s feelings in the
matter—in spite of Wakuri’s professed con-
cern—would receive scant consideration.
Yoshida laughed bitterly to himself as he
strode along the dusty white road beyond
the town.
A homeless ronyin, an outlaw from his
own people and province, where could he
hope to find ten thousand yen within ten
days? Or ten times ten for that matter?
His whole resources would not exceed one
hundred yen, the clothes he stood up in and
his Samurai swords. Truly, unless a miracle
happened, he was about to pay dearly for
his life of wandering freedom. Well, he
would enjoy at least one hour with Ume
before he set out on his quest, though he
knew not in what direction that quest would
lie.
Squaring his shoulders, liis gaze wandered
upwards past the tiny Shinto temple—the
Miya of Inari-San, the Fox-God—that stood
deep in the shade of ancient cedars, half-
way up the hillside, searching the verdant
boskage beyond for the blue-grey tiled roof
that was his goal.
His naturally buoyant spirits reacted
under the tonic effect of the glorious limpid
air, his lagging step quickened and he
raised his voice in impromptu song:
Suite yuke toya, ano ya wo suite;
Yuke l>a chikayoru nushi no soba.
(Go forward, to the house thou secst before
thee ;
The nearer thou goest thereto the nearer to
her thou’lt be.l
Above, in a tranquil, blossom-laden gar-
den, shut off by high stone walls from the
outer world, Ume, a dainty poem of color,
sat on a carpet of fallen petals under a
flowering cherry-tree, gazing pensively across
the wide valley to where distant Dai-sen
loomed, a phantom cone wreathed in dia-
phanous mists, a dream of perpetual snow.
Yoshida’s voice, sonorous and sweet, floating
upwards through the still afternoon, brought
her, flitting like, clio-clio the butterfly, to the
heavily barred gate, where she eagerly
watched his youthful figure ascending the
narrow road.
Her quick “yes caught the momentary
look of despair that passed across the young
man’s face when he saw her waiting by the
gate; but, like a true daughter of Japan,
she made no sign, as they sought the privacy
of the quiet garden, that she had divined
the hopelessness lying behind the air of
cheerful optimism with which he told her
the result of his interview.
Swiftly for the lovers the golden after-
noon sped by, until, with the setting, of the
sun in a glory of ineffably delicate, chang-
ing hues, Yoshida bade Ume a reluctant
adieu, and set out on his return to the
mist-shrouded town below.
Half-way down the slope, close to the
cedar-sliaded temple of Inari-San, the ronyin
seated himself on a moss-covered bank to
wrestle with the problem facing him.
Where could lie look for the solution of
his difficulty? A curse on all soulless, greedy
merchants who put money before true love!
Why, in all Nirvana, had the gods given
“Yoshida’s gift was the white-lipped tail of a fox.”
lime such a bloated bulk of animated ava-
rice for a father? Would Unie consent to
flee with him? He thought not; but
His strong, slender hands strayed to the
razor-edged sword in his sash, fingering the
silver Lions of Shinto that swarmed over
the crimson lacquer of the sheath, and clos-
ing caressingly on the exquisite hilt, while
liis high-bred, slightly aquiline features set
grimly in a determined frown.
Suddenly he saw the fat Wakuri puffing
heavily up the slope, and, being in no mood
for a further encounter with the suave old
merchant, he quickly took shelter behind a
huge cedar bole; wondering, meanwhile, why
a wealthy man should make such an obvi-
ously toilsome journey on foot when a jin-
rikisha could be hired for a trifling sum.
With a stout staff in one hand and a
small, paper-wrapped parcel in the other, the
old man slowly climbed the hill, pausing
frequently to draw breath and gaze sunset-
ward over Lake Shinji, a sheet of shimmer-
ing bronze below.
As he drew abreast of the Shinto shrine
the watching Yoshida saw him cautiously
scan the road, above and below, then waddle
furtively to the rear of the temple, where,
kneeling awkwardly, he unwrapped the par-
cel. disclosing a faintly steaming platter of
tofu, which he placed, with a devout obeis-
ance, before the round fox-liole.
A slow grin stole over the face ol the
watcher as light broke on him. So this was
the secret of the foot pilgrimage —Wakuri,
the shrewd, hard-headed man of the mar-
kets ; Wakuri, with a reputation for clear-
sightedness and wisdom —a secret devotee of
the Fox-God of the ignorant, superstitious
peasants! By all the Kami wouldn’t his fel-
low-merchants chuckle if they knew of it!
With eyes sparkling in a spirit of mis-
chief, the young ronyin moved farther back
amongst the trees; and presently, as the
kneeling bulk by the temple showed signs of
rising, the sharp “kon-kon!” of a barking
fox prostrated it afresh, quivering with
delight and pouring forth protestations of
fervent devotion to Inari. Thereafter, each
time Wakuri essayed to rise the staccato
“kon-kon !” drove him to his knees with re-
newed outpourings of devotion; until
Yoshida, weak with suppressed laughter,
desisted from his vulpine vocal efforts and
allowed the old man to regain his feet and
continue on liis homeward way, his round
face beaming happily at wliat he took to be
a manifestation of Inari’s pleasure in his
piety.
When Wakuri had passed from sight
Yoshida, a speculative look in his laughing
eyes, recommenced his journey townward,
where he sought out one Uriuaki Manji, a
close friend, on whose discretion and co-
operation he knew he could rely; into. whose
house the figure of the young ronyin dis-
appeared, and whence he was not seen to
emerge for the space of nine days.
Business was booming in the big tofuya.
Silent-footed serving boys flitted swiftly to
and fro bearing heaped plates of fragrant,
steaming tofu to the merchants, artisans
and jicasants squatting in groups on the
matting floor.
Old Wakuri-San, smoking a tiny brass
pipe, sat like a bland Buddha in the doorway
of his inner sanctum, listening to the cease-
less hum of conversation, and mentally con-
gratulating himself for having been astute
enough to adopt the Fox-God for his par-
ticular deity, in the face of certain ridicule
from his fellows should they hear of his
credulity. %
What better god could the keeper of an
eating-house serve than one whose name sig-
nified “load-of-rice”? Had not Inari raised
him from being an impecunious, wandering
tofu-vendor to the position he now occupied
as the owner of Matsue’s largest tofuya and
the proud possessor of a house that had once
belonged to the'rulers of the land, the power-
ful Samurai? li’ad he not, only four days
since, been permitted to hear the very voice
of the god—undoubtedly a portent of some
unusually felicitous occurrence? He bowed
his head to repeat his oft-expressed thanks
to Inari; then his mouth fell open, and his
thanks remained unuttered as, from the
corners of his half-closed eyes, he saw an
amazing thing.
Close by, avidly devouring a heap of
steaming tofu, with his back half-turned to
Wakuri, there crouched a hunched-up, rag-
ged figure, whose face was completely hidden
by the deep brim of the conical straw hat
of a pilgrim. It was not the voracity, the
rags or the. hat of this person that put a
period to Wakuri’s thanksgiving and caused
liis almond eyes to bulge from his head, but
a bushy brown object with a white tip that
protruded from under tile stranger’s rags
end rested on the matting behind liis squat-
ting form.
A tail! By the ancient god of Izumo! A
man with the tail of a fox! Would marvels
never cease? First the voice of the god by
the temple on the hillside; now a Hito-Kit-
suue—a man-fox—in the tofuya itself. Truly
some great good was about to befall. One
must see that such a visitant received re-
spectful treatment.
Wakuri clapped his hands softly twice,
and in low tones questioned the boy who
came in answer to the summons concerning
the visitor. Had he been to the tofuya
before? Yes; each day for the last three
days, or four. The boy could not say with
certainty the number of the days, but
he had noticed that the ragged man had
squatted in the same place each time, and
bolted his food in the same hurried way;
also he spoke indistinctly and was hard to
understand. Wakuri gave orders that he was
to be called immediately should the man come
again, and that no money was to be charged
for the food he ate.
Presently the owner of the fox-tail rose
to go, and Wakuri, waving aside the prof-
fered payment for the meal, obsequiously
escorted him to the door, tentatively hinting
on the way that he understood his guest’s
real condition. The guest, however, spoke
no word, but, with face slightly averted and
obscured by the wide hat from the mer-
chant’s sight, moved off in a shambling gait
along the Tenimachi towards O-Shiroyam.l.
Glowing inwardly, Wakuri resumed his
former position, going over in his thoughts
all the legends lie had ever heard of Inari’s
generosity to liis deserving followers.
Patiently, with confidence born of deep
conviction, he awaited developments.
Next morning he was seated in the inner
room deep in speculative thought, when the
ragged man silently appeared in the door-
way, standing with bowed head and folded
arms.
Sensing that the moment he had been
awaiting had arrived, that lie was about to
behold a miracle, Wakuri’s presence of mind
deserted him, and the eloquent words he had
prepared to meet such an occasion fled. He
rolled his fat body into an inelegant attitude
of prostration, and, murmuring the honorific
title “O-Kitsune-San,” waited his visitor’s
pleasure.
Still holding his pose, the figure in the
doorway spoke in high-pitched, broken words,
after the manner of all fox-men.
“O-Wakuri-San, as thou hast guessed,”
he said, “I am no real man, but a fox-man,
a Hito-Ivitsune, sent hither by the Heaven-
Shining-One, Inari-San, to reward thee for
thy piety and devotion. I come to give thee
the key to wealth unlimited, exceeding all
thy dreams. Know that whatever money
thou leavest in the fox-hole of O-Shiroyama
temple at night shall be doubled by morn-
ing.”
The voice ceased, and after a breathless
instant the worshipper on the floor ventured
to raise his eyes—and found that lie was
alone! Had lie ever been otherwise? The
whole occurrence had been so brief that
Wakuri half doubted its reality.
“Thy piety and devotion”.... “the key
to wealth unlimited”.... “whatever sum
thou leavest at night shall be doubled by
morning”.... And he, Wakuri, the only
mortal possessed of the secret! The thing
was incredible! But, yes, he would test
it! That very night lie would leave a
small sum—ten yen only—to prove whether
or not he had been the victim of a delusion.
All the rest of that long day Wakuri moved
as one in a dream. Never before had he
been so impatient for the coming of dark-
ness. Never had he mounted the long road
leading to the temple with more eager steps.
And never, as he placed the ten clinking
coins within the fox-hole, 3*ad he prayed
more earnestly for the favor of the gods.
That night he lay sleepless—a prey to
alternate hopes and fears; and the first
ghostly love-colors of the dawn had scarcely
appeared over far Dai-sen when he cautiously
(Continued on page 53.)


> ■ '
■
v-
»**»**
* vv» I jf 4 •' J \w Jr
■'. ; *■«'■ •**■■'(Jtjtita*
■ **ci\*£
'. \ * **' >’'" ■ ' y A - •*>
*** f'V% V • V W*V .' %vi ••" *< » **'* "' . ..V-
-1
J
tt
•v ■*
• • !ty&S|pb) 1
I
*
o
Where there is
Rco! Work
you will find
REPUBLIC
TRUCKS
To stand up to hard work, the big jobs of industry, as
Republic has done for years, is still doing and is even
better able to do than ever, is one of many obvious argu-
ments for the choice of this truck. Republic designers
build their trucks with their minds concentrated upon the
work the trucks will have to do. The Republic factory is
constantly alert to find and apply any possible method of
adding to Republic’s widely-known efficiency. There are
more Republic trucks in use than those of any other
individual truck manufacturer. That statement speaks
for itself; when you decide on a Republic you are casting
your vote with the majority of truck operators; you are
buying a truck that has been tested and proved to be as
efficient as human skill can make it.
è
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney.
Queensland:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency.
(Q’iand), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
Western Australia:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
Victoria:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne-
South Australia:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Weymouth Street, Adelaide-
New Zealand:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets,
Wellington.
Distributors: W. A. CROWLE, LTD., Crowle House, 105 York Street, Sydney.
Factory


MAGNAVCX
DYNAMIC
A* C*
J D CADE K
£13(15/
As necessary as a power
tube. It gives not only
volume [without distor-
tion but full and faithful
reproductions over tho
full tonal range.
BEVERLY MODEL
For A.C £l3/15/-
For D.C. or Battery . . £ll
HEAR IT. ASK YOUR NEAREST,
RADIO DEALER.
Australian Model No. 7225.
without liainful “drag-,” if you use the Plum Razor, ideal for wiry beards and tender skins.
Guaranteed and kept in order for' two years free. Strongly-made grained-leather case with every razor.
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each Satin-lined double
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „ case free with
Real Ivory Handle 21/- ~ every pair.
7-day sets —7 razors in case:
Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
. i>ost Free to Any Address.
Jke HUM Ra^or
FPL4 . CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“IXL” Carbide
When forwarding your next order for Carbide
insist on being supplied with
“IXL” Brand.
It is manufactured in Australia
and is guaranteed by the manufacturers to be
at least equal to the British Acetylene
Association standard quality.
When using “IXL” Brand you are helping an
all-Australian industry to flourish.
If unable to obtain from your supplier
write direct to the undersigned:
H. Jones & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
HOBART, TASMANIA, Sole Distributing Agents
For
The Australian Commonwealth Carbide Co., Ltd.,
Electrona, Tasmania.
DISTRIBUTORS FOR N.S.W.:
ALLEN-LIVERSIDGE, LTD., Hutchison Street, Annandale.
BRANDTS, LTD., 236 Pitt Street, Sydney.
GARDNER-WAERN & CO. PTY., LTD., 225 Clarence Street, Sydney.
NOYES BROS, LTD., Clarence Street, Sydney.
stole forth from his sleeping household, and
again made his way to the cedar-grove.
Kneeling in the* chill morning air, he
groped with eager hands in the black open-
ing of the fox-hole. By the ashes of his
forefathers, the Hito-Kitsune had been real!
He had not imagined it! There in his
grasp lay twenty shining yen !
Over and over he counted the coinsi,
scarcely crediting the evidence of touch and
sight. What stupendous wealth was his in
prospect! But he must guard the secret
well. How much more carefully must he
hide his visits to the temple notv than
formerly, when lie but feared the ridicule
of his fellow-merchants.
Thinking thus he retraced his steps, and,
when his people at last awoke, no one
guessed the soaring, ambitious thoughts that
were passing behind his inscrutable eyes
as he made ready as usual for the day’s
work.
That day Wakuri paid a visit to his
banker, who, while expostulating that he
could not find so large a sum on such short
notice, nevertheless contrived —for Wakuri
was an important client —to deliver to the
merchant’s house on the hill by mid-afternoon
certain heavy bags that chinked slightly as
they were deposited on the floor.
Leaving the tofuya in capable hands,
Wakuri spent the rest of the day in a
private room at home, counting shining piles
of coins, and placing them in two large
bags that remained but half filled when
the last of the money had been placed within.
Twice that night, at a late hour, Wakuri
struggled along the short stretch of moon-
lit road between his house and the temple
in the cedar-grove, each time laden with one
of the heavy bags of money. Confidently
ho left them by the fcx-hole and retired to
wait the dawn that would witness the re-
warding of his faith and devotion.
Towards morning his previous night’s Jack
of sleep, combined with his recent mental
excitement, caused him to fall into a light
slumber, from which he was awakened by
the “ho-ke-kyo!” of a wild ugisu bird, hail-
ing the new day from a dew-drenched thicket
nearby.
Silently and quickly Wakuri left the house
and broke into a waddling run towards the
temple. He would have to move swiftly
to transport his doubled treasure to safety
before the peasants began passing market-
wards along the road.
With heart pounding suffocatingly under
the stress of his emotion and unwonted phy-
sical efforts, he hurried through the trees,
and stopped short, with a soul-stricken Avail,
within ten feet of his object. The bags were
gone!
Feverishly he searched the fox-hole, mut-
tering incoherently to himself as lie groped
here and there in the obscurity, his trembling
hands meeting with nothing but the bare
walls and a few rice grains scattered on
the floor.
Fifteen thousand yen! By the black god
of Poverty, fifteen thousand yen vanished
into thin air!
His fat legs Aveakened at the thought,
and he collapsed on the temple steps.
Slowly the realisation that he had been
duped broke on him, and he began to see
his actions in their proper perspective. What
a credulous, self-satisfied fool he had been
to alloAv himself to bo tricked so easily!
Great beads of perspiration stood out on
his brow! Woefully his features sagged; and
his body seemed to shrink visibly as he
berated himself and cursed his unknown
SAvindlers. How they must be laughing!
Only one comforting thought came to him
—fear of being called to account would
prevent the tricksters from publishing the
success of their ruse; and, though the loss
of fifteen thousand yen was a grievous blovv,
it did not spell complete ruin.
It was a thoroughly woebegone merchant
who presently lumbered to his feet and
shambled sloAvly homeward in the dawn.
On the evening of Setsubun, Yoshida,
with the jaunty, slightly swaggering step of
carefree youth, threaded his way through
the traffic in the street of rich merchants,
towards the tofuya of Wakuri-San. His
eyes were bright, and a song was in his
heart. In one hand he carried a parcel,
and in the other a letter; and it was the
thought of Avhat that letter contained that
caused him to smile happily as he walked.
Arrived at the tofuya he made his way
unannounced into the inner room, Avhere
he found the old man busily casting up
accounts.
With a respectful “Komban! Good even-
ing, O-Wakuri-San!” he bowed, seated him-
self, and added, “Once more I have coma
to request the hand of O-Ume-San, and”
“And,” interrupted Wakuri, in anything
but his usual bland tones, “once more it
gives me great pleasure to refuse. Unless
you can comply with the conditions I im-
posed during our last intervieAv.”
The young ronyin visibly wilted ; then he
faltered:
“And—and if I can?”
“If you can” Wakuri’s voice ex-
pressed utter disbelief in - the possibility of
any such contingency “if you can, by
the ashes of my forefathers, I shall, of course,
keep my bargain.”
Smiling, Yoshida rose and passed the
letter he held to the astonished old merchant.
“In that case, O-Wakuri-Sau, I go to
break the glad tidings to O-Ume. This letter,
as you will see, is from the banker Taiso-
Torajiro-San, and it certifies that I, Yosliida-
Masaki, have to-day deposited Avith him the
sum of—fifteen thousand yen!’’
At the significant pause and the naming
of the sum old Wakuri started as if he
had been stung, and stared incredulously at
the handsome, mocking face of the young
ronyin. who continued :
“Before I leave you to reflect upon your
good fortune in acquiring such an eminently
desirable son-in-law, I wish to make you a
small gift in token of my future dutiful
reA T erence and respect. Sayonara!”
Yoshida placed the parcel in the unresist-
ing hands of the dumbfounded Wakuri, and,
bowing gra\-ely once more, departed swiftly
through the tofuya and out along the white
road Teading to O-Shiroyama and his heart’s
desire.
Back in the little ante-room, a fat old
man sat in a state of semi-stupor, gaping
hlanklv at the contents of the parcel.
Yosliida’s gift. It Avas the white-tipped tail
of a fox.
The Road to Flinders.
We took the road to Flinders
One magic morn in May—
We took the road to Flinders
That winds around the bay.
Now, you’ll be dead,
And I’ll be dead,
We’ll all be dead some day,
But still the road to Flinders
Will curve and wind away
When you are dead
And I am dead
And turned to common clay.
The road that runs to Flinders,
Aye, evermore it seems
Of all the tracks I’ve travelled
’Twill haunt my daily dreams.
The road, the road to Flinders,
One magic morn in May,
Seemed like the road to Heaven !
Alack! and well-a-day.
The road that runs to Heaven
Is far and far away!
But down the road to Flinders,
My last sands in the glass,
To find that road to Heaven
I know my soul will pass.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.
Cry.
I am so sick
Of towns
And of streets
And of people gaping;
I want to be out
Where the farmers’ hands are shaping
The earth, and the corn and barley and oats
arc growing;
Where there is rain and hope
And the wind is hard in its blowing.
Never a hang do I care
For the shops
And the silly fashions.
I want to be out there
With my limbs declaiming the plastic
strength
Of the harder, clearer passions.
I shall go flying by
When my body is stifled under
The earth that I love—
And why
Should I not have it now:
The Avild and the wind and the rain,
And the ridge-backed mountain thunder?
I am so sick
Of towns
And of streets
And of people striving.
Some day I shall go right out
Where the magpies swerve and shout
And the black wild bees are hiving.
I shall take heart and song,
Broken maybe and ailing,
To the places where they belong,
And I’ll keen with the wind wailing.
But Heaven! I want to go now,
And use my hands for shaping
The earth with the spade and plough,
And see the crop-tides flowing—
Fit battle, and worthy death,
And the wind hard in its blowing!
QUEENSLAND.
LLUWELYN LUCAS.
The Earth-bound Child.
If I could forget
That I had a mother,
I would not come when the tall trees lean
And twitter and talk to one another,
Back from the place where the graves are
green
And the grass is wet
By the gravel-pits.
If I could forget
That I had a mother,
I would not steal to where she sits
Winding the wool for a baby-brother.
There she sits,
With her hair of jet,
And her lap spread wide,
Under the boughs where the apples hide,
Tapping her foot as she knits and knits,
Watching the grass by the wall a-flutter,
And the dead leaves blow in the shallow
gutter,
And tlie kittens play in the mignonette.
“Mother, my mother !’’ I moan and cry.
She does not hear,
Only inclines one small, pale ear
To the darkening sky
And says “How the branches rustle and
shiver!”
I pull at her skirts with hands that quiver.
She does not feel and I pull again.
“The breeze,” she says, “blows up for rain!”
And she goes within, and draws the blind
to hide
The dark trees weaving,
And I am left alone, outside,
A little lost figure, grieving, grieving!
She does not see
The child that nestled at her knee.
Only she remembers me
(When the day is done, and the wind is
wild
In the tangled harps of the willow),
As a little dead, untroubling child,
Asleep on a coffined pillow!
But I, so soon forgot,
Perhaps I find no rest,
For little sins of hers still unconfess’d,
Because she loved me not!
All, if I could forget
That I had a mother,
When the tall trees lean as they talk to
each other,
And the kittens play in the mignonette—
If I could forget
That I had a mother,
Perhaps I could sleep in the graveyard yet!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


harry J
WIiSTOSI
ST is a far cry from the peddling
methods of the East to the
scientific principles of present-
day merchandising.
A solid merchandising policy
coupled with effective advertising
spells success in any enterprise.
In the choice of an advertising
agency, you naturally give especial
consideration to those firms whose
experience in the publicity world is
of long standing and whose repu-
tation for efficiency is undoubted.
The O’Brien Publicity Company, after
twenty years’ experience in handling large
National accounts, both overseas and local,
is in an unique position to advise upon
any question of marketing or advertising.
Inquiries are invited from firms desirous of
opening or extending markets in Australia.
We have prepared a booklet describ-
ing briefly the O’Brien Organisa-
tion. A copy of this will be sent free
upon request.
THE O’BRIEN PUBLICITY CO.
UNION HOUSE, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BW 1501.
TEMPLE COURT, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Central 5939.
Cable Address: '"GOFER,” Sydney


Unexcelled for
Convenience
Main
Theatres
situated
nearby.
Right
opposite
Railway
Station.
\r\
Handy to
main
public
buildings.
Conveni-
ently near
Shopping
Centres.
No hotel in Adelaide is so conveniently
located as The Grosvenor, and none
offers better service or erreater comfort.
Tariff from £3 10/-.
Write for information booklet.
GROSVENOR
r Finest Unlicetu'ed Fluid
Opp. Railway Sfn. North Terrace.
THROW OFF THE MASK
FRECKLES, PIMPLES, BLACKHEADS,
Are Ugly Features.
Refined Folks Avoid Your Acquaintance.
1 will tell every reader of this journal Free how every
blemish can be removed in Ten Days
Stubborn cases have been cured that baffled physicians and
beauty-specialists for years. You have never in all your life
used or heard of anything like it. Makes muddy complexions,
red spots, pimples, blackheads, freckles, eruptions, vanish
almost like magic. No cream, lotion, enamel, salve, plaster,
bandage, mask, massage, diet or apparatus, nothing to swallow It doesn’t matter
whether or not your complexion is a “fright,” whether your face is full of muddy spots
peppery blackheads, embarrassing pimples and eruptions, or whether voar skin is rnnib
and .“porey, and you’ve tried almost everything under the sSn to get rid of S
blemishes. This wonderful treatment in just ten days removes blemishes and beautifies
your skin in a marvellous way. You look years younger. It gives the skin the bloom
and .tint of purity of a freshly-blown rose, m ten days you can bl the subject
admiration by all your friends, no matter what your age or condition of health
All Other Methods Aon: Known Are Cast Aside
There is nothing to wear, nothing to take internally. Your face.'even arms hands
shoulders, are beautified beyond your fondest dreams. All this I will absolutely Drove
to you before your owu eyes in your mirror in ten days. This treatment is absolutely
harmless to the most delicate skin and very pleasant to use. No change in your mode
of living necessary. A few minutes daily does it. i
To every reader of this journal I will give full details of this really astounding
treatment. Let me show you. You risk nothing. Send me three penny stamps your
name and address, and I will give you full details by return mail. 1 J
MISS GRACE DUNCAN (Suite W 6) 195 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
é
Children
enjoy
•i:
it makes them
u)ell and strona
In 4 sizes
of ell Chemists & Stores
ask him how a horse could “answer a ques-
tion.” To her thinking Gerald was head-
ing for ruin. It was with feelings of dis-
appointment that she bade him good-bj'e
at the Clintons’ gate.
Gerald waited until he reached the Espla-
nade, and then went into a hotel for a
large drink. After swallowing it he stepped
on to a tram going to the city. There he
got his bag anil hurriedly caught the express
to Sydney, with the full determination of
finding Marie Carducci, even if the search
consumed a month. In his mood he was
prepared to travej over Australia to locate
her.
Arriving in Sydney inquiries in the artis-
tic world soon provided Gerald with the
address of Marie. He received a shock
when he saw the house. Planning a sm-
prise meeting, lie waited until Marie came
down the street. The development tlut
had taken place in her womanhood filled
him with admiration. To possess her what,
would he not do? He recalled their first
meeting. The hunt was half the fun; the
adventure was just what he wanted to
bring a snap into his life.
Sidling tip alongside Marie, he said, as
he had said on the palm-fringed road at
Mildura:
“May I come a little of the way?”
Marie turned a startled face towards him.
“Gerald!” she exclaimed. “You here!
Wherever did you come from? You startled
me!”
“I’ve come from Melbourne to see you.
1 only landed a week or two back from
England. My father is dead. I found out
you were in Sydney, and I have come to
you. What else could I do, loving you as
I do?”
Gerald took Marie away to a tea-room,
and there he unfolded his plan of elope*
ment. They could be married, he said,
when they arrived in Melbourne. He was
now, lie explained, a man of money, and
she would want for nothing that her heart
desired. He would give her a car, she
would have a round of theatres, of racing,
of dancing, expensive frocks she would have
and she would be his wife. Every detail
of an attractive existence, as Gerald judged,
likely to appeal to Marie he painted with
alluring skill.
Marie’s face glowed with pleasure. If
Gerald had been a fairy prince who had
dropped at her feet and she the Cinderella,
she could not have been more enchanted.
Her meeting with Gerald seemed too good
to be true; a golden dream from which
she feared she would awaken to find her-
self in the lodging-house to which her father
had condemned her.
Gerald warned Marie that they would not
steal away from Sydney to Melbourne if
she gave an inkling to anyone of their con-
templated flight. While she felt the magic
of his smile and heard the music of his
voice’s pleadings, she vowed that no tell-
tale words of hers would betray them.
Gerald’s winning tongue and his natural
masterfulness wafted Marie’s mind on rose-
ate clouds.
Away from him, Marie was not so sure
of herself. This proposed flight from her
mpther without a word or a sign was not
quite such a simple thing as she, under the
spell of Gerald’s charm, thought it would
be. Filled with the intoxication of love,
the urge of passion, Marie only thought of
her mother in an abstract way. It was
when she was away from Gerald that the
task looked difficult. Her filial instincts
then pleaded her mother’s cause more
powerfully than any words could have done.
She could not silence her conscience nor
break the bond of love that held her to
her mother.
To disappear, to leave no sign of the way
she had gone, to let her mother imagine
dreadful things had befallen her, seemed
to her to be something more cruel than
anything else she could do. She pic-
tured the tears coursing down her mother’s
cheeks, the mother who had done so much
for her!
In her imagination Marie constructed the
mise-en-scene of what she would leave be-
hind her. She could feel the sharp pang
at the first shock of her disappearance that
her mother would feel. She could see her
mother anxious, weary, losing hope, night
coming with its loneliness, and her mother
questioning where her Marie was. She
could visualise her mother sitting before
the empty fireplace waiting for dawn, her
father snoring in his bed, so indifferent that
he would not lose an hour’s sleep over her.
She pictured the first timid lights of dawn
creeping through the nailed-up windows
into her musty room, and her mother, red-
eyed with weeping and for want of sleep,
creeping into the room, to see if by any
chance she had returned, only to find her
answer in an empty bed!
Marie felt the force of two impulses—
the intensity of her passion for Gerald and
the call of the child-soul to the mother.
While she could not silence these appeals
she had not the will to self-sacrifice. She
was clay, of the earth earthy. Though she
felt for her mother the Eve in her was
so potent that, while she shrank from giv-
ing her mother pain, she only did so as
fat- as such remissions did not interfere
with her own plans.
Nearer to the surface of her being Marie
was excited, flattered and almost mad with
joy. She burned with impatience to tell
someone the tale of the return of her lover.
Try as she might to keep the secret she
could not. It overflowed its confines. In
sheer desperation she decided to tell her
mother, so that at least she would not
suffer the pain of being in doubt as to what
had happened to her daughter. Marie,
therefore, mentioned that she had met
Gerald Deacon by accident in George-street.
Mrs. Carducci, instantly sensing danger,
expressed her alarm that if Marie’s father
knew of the meeting there would be great
trouble. She urged upon her daughter the
danger she ran in having anything to do
with Gerald.
Marie hastened to modify her mother’s
objections by telling her that Gerald had
become possessed of much money. He had
come over to Sydney to see her, and she
feared he would do something desperate
if he could not win her.
“Nonsense!” exclaimed Mrs. Carducci.
Marie did not tell her mother of the
seductive words Gerald had whispered to
her, nor did she tell of the beautiful
castles he had built, nor of how he was
yearning to show her what life in Mel-
bourne could be. Nor did she hint of the
great lady he had promised she would be,
riding in her motor-car and promenading
on the lawn at Flemington.
“He tells you he has money that his
father left him?” said Mrs. Carducci with
a note of doubt in her voice.
“No, not his father, a rich relation in
England,” corrected Marie.
“What’s it matter? He says he has
money. I will tell your father. He will
be pleased to hear that!”
“Not for anything—at least not now\ It
would spoil everything,” said Marie in alarm
for her plans, Gerald’s plans. “He has not
asked me to marry him yet,” she added.
“That doesn’t matter. I will speak to
your father, even if he has not yet asked
you to marry him. If your father says ‘Yes’
—why, you say ‘Oui!’ and there is no time
lost, and so you marry him.”
Her mother noticed that Marie was tap-
ping the floor with her foot. The girl’s
agitation was a warning to her. Was her
daughter trying to deceive her? Mrs. Car-
ducci’s brains may not have had the agility
of Marie’s, but what they lacked in that
respect was made up to her by the acute-
ness w’hich experience gives.
To young people life is such a delightful
adventure and love so full of pleasant sur-
prises that Youth is inclined to imagine
that no one ever before experienced such
thrills, such hopes, such joys. Perhaps that
is why the days of Youth are golden
days; why the old world seems so young
to the j'oung. and the unknown future, which
old age has learnt to treat with caution, is
so full of happy dreams for young maids
and men. Marie was in one of those
dreams, and she feared to have it destroyed.
“No, no! You must not tell him. You
would spoil my chances!” exclaimed Marie
decisively.
The danger that such an exposure would
have on the success of her elopement re-
acted on Marie’s passion for Gerald. Her
anger mounted at the idea that her mother
proposed to tell her father anything about
her love.
Mrs. Carducci saw there was something
more in the situation than Marie had con-
fessed to her. Why did she object to her
father knowing that she had met Gerald
Deacon? Was there not a sugar-plum
in the way of the legacy to make the news
welcome to him?
Exercising patience, her mother was con-
tent to try to guess at her daughter’s
thoughts. Marie grew restive. Impulsively
she burst through the restrictions her
mother would place upon her.
“If you tell him,” Marie said decisively,
“I will leave you.”
“Ingrate to say that to your mother!
She who has suffered so much for you!
Ah, ma petite, I tell you love is folly! Think
of your father how he treated me, and this
Ger-ald will he not do the same to you?”
“Father is a beast!” said Marie.
“Do I not know that better than you?
Tint he is your father, and it is right he
should know and for you to obey him.”
“I’ll do as I like!” replied Marie defiantly.
“Ah, Marie! Marie! What fools smil-
ing men make of women! But I will not
have you made one more fool. No! You
have patience until your father goes to
Melbourne. He has a letter from Mr. Theo-
polos, who wants to sell the fruit-shop
Your father when in Melbourne will find
out if the young man has this money. Be
led by your mother, and do not make a
fool of yourself.”
“If father told you that about Theo-
polos he lies,” replied Marie angrily. “You
believe anything he tells you, but I know
him better than you do—you are not sharp
enough for him. He is going to get money
from Mr. Felspar. I know the picture is
sold for five hundred pounds. I suppose
he's burrowed out that fact at last.”
“La, la! lam pleased for Monsieur Fel-
spar’s sake,” exclaimed Mrs. Carducci in
genuine astonishment. Then she added:
“Your father does not know. He could not
keep that from me. Non, non! It is to see
Theopolos that he goes to Melbourne,”
asserted her mother confident^.
“Do not believe him, Maman! He thinks
that Lisette Neigre’s story is a true one,
and that she is Felspar’s wife. Do you not
see it that is so he would have Felspar
marry the good Betty”
"Oui! Old!” interrupted her mother ex-
citedly. “A good match!”
“Once Felspar marries, father will tell him
that he must buy his silence. The picture
has brought £500! Ah, I know my father
too well for the peace of my mind.”
“Non, non, ma petite! Do not say that;
your father is not so great a rogue. He
shall not do so. Monsieur Felspar is a
gentleman. Do I not like him and talk
much with him of Paris? Ah, non! He
shall not be blackmailed by your father.”
“And was not Betty kind to me the days
I worked in the vineyard?”
“Oh, oui!”
“Then we’ll stop him by sending the
death certificate back to Mr. Felspar.”
“I do not know—your father will make
so much noise. Ah, truly he is a fool. 1
have told him he will find himself in gaol,
but all he says is ‘Chut, chut, chut, woman!”
Mrs. Carducci was much closer to her
husband than one hearing her talk about
him when she was annoyed would have
supposed. She had a sense of loyalty
towards him, the loyalty of a captain who
sticks to a sinking ship. Bad bargain he
was, but lie was her husband.
With Marie it was different. She dis-
liked and feared her father; she shrank from
his coarse ways, his hectoring manner, his
bad temper, and she dreaded the day that
she felt must come when his doings would
bring shame upon them. She was glad of
any chance to escape from the environ-
ment of her sordid home, and Gerald, the
man her passion craved for, was holding
out both his hands crying “Come to me!”
Could she hesitate to leave what was be-
hind her and to greet all that lay ahead of
her? Yet her mother must be won
oyer; she must not disclose her plans o'-
give any hint to her father, who was such
a clever rogue that a hint would enable him
to discover everything.
“Do not tell him, Hainan, that 1 saw
Gerald,” pleaded Marie, nestling her hand
in her mother’s hand.
“Ah, well, ma petite,” replied her mother,
“I will not.”
Mrs. Carducci's face was filled with the
yearning and sadness of some poor woman
who looks across grey seas for the distant
white sail of a long-overdue ship that is
to bring her peace arid happiness.
Marie embraced her mother again and
again. Her kisses stirred soft emotions, in
the mother, whose eyes were suffused with
tears. Such tender passages were unusual
between her and Marie.
Mrs. Carducci was aware, as only such
a mother could be aware, of Marie's
passionate temperament, of the fire which
ran in her daughter’s blood. Marie was a
true daughter of hers. Ah, she herself had
mocked at love and said “Peuh!” But she
knew what love was. To love as she her -
self had once loved, before she married Car-
ducci, was to suffer—suffer as only a pas-
sionate woman can when she is abandoned
by the man for whom she has jeopardised
her soul.
Marie was satisfied to think that she and
her mother had mingled their emotional
heartbeats—was sure her mother realised
that she, Marie, being a woman, had a
woman’s yearning for love, even as she,
her mother, had loved, and that the time
must come when she would leave her
mother for some man. She was of age
What her father thought did not influence
her. If he stormed it would be only be-
cause of the loss of a daughter he had mis-
led himself into thinking of as an asset, a
decoy, something to further his schemes
of roguery.
Her protective instinct overruled all
other considerations when Mrs. Carducci
discovered the following day that Marie
had taken her father’s portmanteau, her
clothes and her father’s papers, among which
was the certificate of the death of Lisette
Delas Felspar, and that she was gone. The
discoveries set her heart palpitating. She
had to rest in order that she might regain
some composure.
Yet it was too much for her mercurial
French nature to sit still and wait. The
apparent fact that Gerald had eloped with
Marie was overwhelming. By no effort
could she contain herself. She looked tc
her husband for help—looked to him to
stop them, if possible, from going to Mel-
bourne. She hurried in a nervous flutter
to the restaurant of Carducci and Donzetti.
Unconscious of the mental troubles of
his wife, Carducci stood at the door smok-
ing the inevitable cigar. There was a platt
of steak in the window. He eyed it com-
placently. His customers hoped that such
a steak might arrive on their plates. Iri
vain. It was a mystery to them where the
good fish and the fine steak lost their way.
Carducci smiled at their simplicity. He
was anticipating now the personal enjoy-
ment of the prime cut, with onions, when
Mrs. Carducci came within his vision.
(Continued on page 58.)
Porte Unknown.
Though round about earth's oceans
All ports seem named and known,
Yet there are some that children
And poets know alone;
Ao mariner has seen them,
Though he, grown old and worn,
Has sailed and sailed the round world
By night and noon and morn.
Who seeks them, westward questing,
Bliall never light upon
Their wonder and their beauty
Though on he sail and on;
Who seeks them, eastward heading,
All vain shall be his lot:
They lie not ’neath the north stars,
The south stars know them not.
Yet known are they to children,
And known to poet-folk,
Who visit them in tall ships
Aol built of tealc or oak —
N.s.w.
Toll ships that, dancing, venture
From realm to fabled realm,
]\’ith magic winds to speed them
And Fancy at the helm.
In foil,-song and in fable
Such ports arc sung and told;
And yet, though, they arc stately
And rich in stores of gold,
Wealth-makers and town-planners,
Blind builders, know not this:
That one is IJldorado
And one lly-Brasil is.
Who would set forth to find them
Must quest o'er vision's sea,
Must be as dreaming poets,
.4« little children be;
Must board a ship of wonder
With magic sails unfurled,
And for an idle moment
Forget the charted ivorld.
RODERIC QUINN.


Hanking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN”
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £5.000.000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. £3.369.965
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18.623,153
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, KILE., Chairman.
CRANK X. YARWOOD; H. It. I.YSAGHT, 0.11. E.;
GEORGE J. SLY. 1.L.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MAN AG EH: C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: \Y. O. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : (52 liishup.vgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 186 Blanches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, -.vith Agents and Correspondents
at al! Chief Cities throughout the Vtorld.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY HKANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELHOI RNK BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Slock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Lons' Term Mortgage Shares .. 010,210
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,525
GRANTS DRAFTS
Ureal Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
GUYATTS
ê
ARTIfWIAI
ARMS'™I N,S
[V/TADF ; , on most modern
lyl principles to suit in-
dividual requirements.
Direct agents for the world’s
foremost makers of the new
light metal Duralumin
Limbs.
Write giving some details.
Expert advice free. Visits to
your home can be arranged.
Dept Tf
GUYATT & CO. u "
257 a George St., Sydney
KTIk
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, (id. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing maii and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians iu
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
ollices. 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
Loudon, W.C.2, where they can sec the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 250 (Jeorge Street, Sydney:
or 424 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
ë
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
tTbe dominion.
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent.
' effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion'' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
AH Leading Advertising-Agents
the World Over.
Shipping, etc.
mL
m
.vLfs
Sip
m
VL
%(V
m
At the Cost
of a
City Holiday
Hawaii
Hawaii in winter is the Riviera
of the Pacific. Its gay capital.
Honolulu, is a city of flowers and
fascination from its famous surf to
its summit. The giant Canadian-
Australasian liners, the finest fleet
on the Pacific run, assure a refresh-
ing holiday voyage.
Tahiti
An alternative excursion is
offered by the visit paid to
Raratonga and Papeete by
the Union Company’s
steamers. The coral-girt
islands of Tahiti are en-
joyed by an ever-increasing
number of tourists, especi-
ally when winter tempers
the tropical sunshine.
WINTER EXCURSIONS
To Honolulu
£75 First <ind £55 Second (return)
Niagara leaves Sydney May 80
Makurn ~ ~ June 27
Aorangi ~ „ July 25
To Tahiti
£55 First and £lO Second
Tahiti leaves Sydney
Maungnnui ~ ~
Tahiti ~ „
(returii)
May 16
June 13
July 11
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., 247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne, Cl-
STEAMSHIP PASSAGES
Arranged by AH Steamship Lines,
Choice of Any Route. Without Extra Charge.
ENGLAND
FRANCE
ITALY
GERMANY
From AUSTRALIA
AMERICA
CANADA
MEXICO
AFRICA
to
JAPAN
EGYPT
INDIA
CHINA
Also attractive, tours to Honolulu, Java, Colombo, Fiji, etc.
BUSINESS TRIPS. PLEASURE CRUISES.
AUSTRALIA TO
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
VISIT JAVA (“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly sailings maintained by the popu-
lar steamers “MARELLA” and “MALA-
BAR" from Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane, via Queensland Ports Torres
Strait, Darwin, etc.
For Rcvcrralions <<■ d Information apply
at
1
m
WM
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. And all Branch Offices.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Ulysses .. . 15,000 tons, May 10.
fThemistocles 11,500 ~ June 10.
|Runic .... 12,500 ~ July 9.
*Ascanius . . 10,000 „ July 22.
:;: First class only. fFirst and Third class.
£“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
AWAY TO
HAWAII
HAWAII
HAWAII
“With the morning sun o'er mountains old,
Earth turns from its green to purple and gold.”
So the poet describes Hawaii —the playground
of the Pacific. Come then, spend a few happy
weeks, daydreaming, surfing, golfing, playing,
forgetting time, here in Sunny Hawaii. Inter-
Island Cruises. Visit lvilauea Volcano.
Steamer Fares, Round Trip: First Class, £75
up; Second Class, £55 up. First-class Hotel
Accommodation from 12/- to £3 per day, with
meals. It costs no extra money for through
passengers to break this journey at
HAWAII—HAWAII—HAWAII
Inquire at any Travel or Steamship Company
for fullest particulars, or write
HAWAII TOURIST BUREAU,
Dept. 26, Box 162788, G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
ē
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND
RESERVE LIABILITY
BANK.
£7,.>00,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20.900,000
MS To
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER SO. 1928, £88,982,585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
549 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand. Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Dills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout. the world.
Shippin
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
TO EUROPE—
Via UNITED STATES & CANADA
See Honolulu, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Chicago,
Niagara Falls, New York, Vancouver, Montreal, Que-
bec, and travel across the Atlantic on one of the
luxurious
CUNARD LINERS,
including the
ff.M.S. AQUITAMA,
46,000 Tons.
R.M.S. BERENGARIA,
54,000 Tons.
R.M'.S. MAURETANIA,
30,000 Tuns.
Bel urn Tickets issued b.v the Suez Canal and Cape
Lines are available for this route.
Applv for particulars of reduced through rates to
CUNARD LINE
(C. and D. Line),
1 BENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Splendid Cheap Service
Via Suez Canal
FAST OIL BURNERS
In conjunction with Sailings via South Africa.
Excellent Menu. Late Dinner.
Fares to London from £3B.
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For particulars apply
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Box 513 AA, 5 O’Connall St., Sydney.
’Phone: 86701
BRISBANE,via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passcngeis
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOIXONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/6/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU. CIIALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd..
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart Parker LiM'
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
sv *
ĕ
If any illustration in The Bulletin tok-'
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price fox the original.


Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
are Bound to Help You.
•(0101/ll
V 111 0.11)
VIVI.tXIS
now
“T have much pleasure in send-
ii'R you a testimonial for the
benefit of others who may suffer as
I did with Stone in the Bladder
and Kidney Trouble. L was ad-
vised to use I)r. Shehkn’s Gin
Pills, which L did with great. suc-
cess, and have the stone • passed.
It gave me a shock at the time, but
{treat relief, and l am only too
pleased to show that stone to any-
one or toll of the good I derived
from the use of Gin Pills. L had
to give up my trade as a baker
through my suffering, and take on
cooking, which was lighter work.
I wish you to use this testimonial
to your best advantage, also I wish
to state that I took Gin Pills
strictly by direction; I drank
plenty of water, knocked off tea
and coffee, and ate very little meat.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are really
a valuable medicine; I cannot
speak too highly of them.
“Wishing you every success,
“Yours very truly,
“(Sgd.) .TACK SINCLAIR,
“Baker, Balranald, N.S.W.”
Men! Look Well and Feel Well
Don t sillier (lie agonies of Backache, Lumbago, Run-down feeling, or Kidney
1 roubles ol any kind; but remember (hut Dr. Sheldon’s (Jin Pills were specially
designed In banish all these ailments. No matter how long yon have suffered, how
old you are, or wlidt you have used before, you should try Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills;
they are sure to help you, as it is practically impossible to take them into the
human system without benefiting. They help you from the veiiy first dose, banish
Backache and make your Kidneys strong and healthy once again.
t&O
• SNOG 77//£ ti(3
BANISH
BACKACHE.KIDNEY. BLADDER
AND URINARYTROUBLES
1h«
eAM
Britain’s
Motor
Masterpiece
In Mayfair and the Shires, across the plains of
India and the desert tracks of Iraq, in the sun-
shine of Australia, or on the- African veldt—
everywhere where cars are used you will find
the Sunbeam.
Not only in mechanical efficiency but also in
coachwork of fine appearance and luxurious
comfort, Sunbeam leads the way.
Its high road speed, ease of control, security
of braking and stability under all conditions
ensure a performance of exceptionally high
standard.
The coachwo.k combines unusual beauty of line
with roomy accommodation.
Sunbeam cars for the Australian market are
specially built with the necessary ground clear-
ance, springing and cooling to ensure perfect
performance on the roughest roads and tracks
and in the most tropical heat.
Complete catalogue will be sent on application
to our Australian agents, or direct to our Export
Department.
AUTHORISED DISTRIBUTORS.
THE ALL BRITISH MOTOR CO. PTY., LTD., 111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
MESSRS. WILLIAMS, HILL & CAMERON, LTD., 91-97 Flinders Street, Sydney.
MESSRS. ARTHUR BALES, LTD., 367-371 Murray Street, Perth.
RASCH MOTORS, LTD., 69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT:
12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, W.l, England.
Cables: Head Office and Works:
“Suheamoco,” London. Wolverhampton, England.
Agents for Egypt: MIDDLE EAST MOTOR AGENCY, 3 Ivon-Elo Dick, Alexandria.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Restful, quiet and- cool—open to the Summer Sea Breezes. Delightfully situated with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort—Excellent Cuisine and Service.
Spacious Grounds 'and Garage Accommodation.
Summer Tariff from 5 guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’ 'trip from City by Ferry or. Motor.
: Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines). Management; M. E. BURROWS.:
The Big Tree.
J.H.M. ABBOTT'S
ę
ě
UP on a hill overlooking Wallis Plains—
that wide and fertile tract of country
along the right bank of the Hunter
River of which West Maitland has for
many years been the commercial centre —a
group of soldiers, civil orticials, prisoners and
settlers stood, on a summer afternoon in 1826.
beneath the wide-spreading branches of a
great eucalyptus that was almost the prin-
cipal feature of its immediate surroundings.
It was at the south-western end of the long
ridge upon whose extremities lie the towns
of Morpeth and East Maitland, from which
point a magnificent view of the wide and
fertile valley of the Hunter may be obtained,
rolling green and cultivated plains, stretch-
ing to distant blue ranges north and west
and south, that always seem suggestive of
a peace and plenty whose existence they do
not belie.
A red-headed man of powerful physique—
immensely broad across the shoulders —stood
beneath a limb with his hands tied behind
him. . About his neck was noosed a rope
running over the branch above, the other
end of it grasped by a couple of soldiers
in their shirt-sleeves. Their red jackets lay
on the grass behind them.
In front of the pinioned man, raging arid
angry, stood the autocrat of the Lower
Hunter, Major Morissett. Commandant at
Newcastle, lie was speaking with a deadly
earnestness that seemed to give small com-
lurt. to the man addressed, whose freckled
face was a little pale in its setting of gingir
whisker, and whose blue eyes were startled
and apprehensive. He looked a strong man
who might face death with a fair share of
manly courage and fortitude, but it was
plain enough he had no relish for his present
situation, and was altogether apprehensive
that it was about to be changed into an
even worse one.
“-Now, you mark my words, Tom Hollo-
way, bellowed the Major, “you’ve just about
come to the end of your tether, you dam’
rascal. The whole countryside’s tired of
you. You think you can carry on just as
you please, do you? Well, I’ll show you—
and others who may think like you—that
you can t. Not whilst I’m in command at
the Coal River, at any rate. You’re the
worst man on the three rivers. You're a
robber and a bully, and an infernal nuis-
anee. Cattle-stealing, horse-thieving, assault-
ing the constables, appropriating cedar logs
that don't belong to you—-any kind of dis-
honesty and ill-conduct conies natural to
you. You may have served your sentence
and be now a.free man. but I'll see you up
in the air, a-dandng upon nothing, before I
permit you to steal my barge. The infernal
impudence! Why, ’tis a thing no other man
in the colony would attempt to do—an
Utterly unheard of thing. Now. what have
you got to say why I shouldn't put an end
to your villainies and rogueries, here and
now. by having you hauled up and hanged?
The man cleared his throat and replied
huskily. “I’ve this to say. y'r Honor. I'm
a free man, an’ ye’ve not the power for to
scrag me wi'ont a fair an’ proper trial. Ye
dassent do no such a thing.”
The Commandant’s burly frame stiffened
with deeper wrath. “Oh, daren’t I!” he
cried. "I'll show you that I dare. The
Governor would do nothing but approve of
such a measure. Don’t you make any mis-
take about it ! I can quite easily explain
a trifle like that.”
''Y’r Honor knows ye dassent!”
The Major fairly roared his command.
“Damn your impudent, soul! Up with him,
men!”
The two soldiers, startled, hesitated to obey.
"Pull on the rope,- there!” thundered the
Commandant.
With great effort they hauled Holloway a
few inches off the ground, where he choked
and struggled convulsively. For ten seconds
he was suspended clear of the ground.
'Now let him down!” cried tin* Major
holding up his hand. “And loosen the noose,
one of you. That will be a lesson to tin*
fellow!”
In a moment the burly victim of this
illegal and rough justice lay collapsed upon
the grass, gaspingly struggling for breath,
a livid ring encircling his bull neck.
“Here, give him some of this,” said the
Commandant, taking a small flask of brandy
from the pocket of his shooting-jacket anil
passing it to the man who had undone the
rope. “That will teach the scoundrel whom
he has to ileal with. For two pins I’d have
let him swing. But I suppose it would have
been a little irregular.”
“What will your Honor have done with
him now, if your Honor pleases?” The Head
Constable of the Green Hills stepped for-
ward and saluted. They used to call that
locality the Green Hills long ago.
Major Morissett turned and glared at the
man. “Do with him ! Why, God bless my
soul, Walter's, I should have thought you
knew your duty sufficiently well to realise
what should be done with him.”
"If your Honor pleases, I” •
“Charge him, of course. Charge him with
the attempted piracy of my barge. I will
commit him for trial myself. Lock him up
and I’ll attend to him in the morning. We’ll
take him down in the barge to Newcastle
to-morrow and he’ll stand bis trial there.
It’ll be at least seven years at Norfolk Island
if I know anything of Mr. Justice Wylde.
In the meantime, lie won’t be up to any
mischief if we have him in the gaol at New-
castle. And let me tell you, Mr. Chief Con-
-table, ’tis a very good thing for yourself
that your men caught him so quickly, else
your position might have been in danger.
You had better let the doctor see the fellow,
I suppose, when you. put him in the cells.
He may have injured his neck a little when
he was hoisted up.”
-Still snorting with righteous indignation,
the Commandant strode across to where his
horse was tied to a sapling and rode down on
to the flat in the direction of Wallis Plains.
On a breezy afternoon in 1833 Tom Hol-
loway sat upon the decaying bole of a fallen
I Hue on the hillside above Sydney Bay at
Norfolk Island enjoying a chew of tobacco,
the sunshine, the balsamic atmosphere de-
rived from the great, forests of tall Araucaria
c-rcriiYf .that .covered the island, and the con-
versation of his friend Mr. Peter Mason, of
tlio Stores. Also, lie enjoyed the refreshing
sight of the white sails of a brig beating up
against the nor’-easier, past the red mass of
l’hillip Island to the southward. She was
to bear him back to the freedom which he
had forfeited seven years before when he
attempted to get away with the Comman-
dant’s barge at the Green Hills, on the
Hunter River, a thousand miles away in New
South Wales. Ilis sentence in the island had
expired, and he was already a free man as
lie sat there talking with Peter .Mason.
But, besides bring a free man. Tom Hol-
loway was a regenerate man. a person of
exemplary character, one who had earned
the good opinion and goodwill of all tie
many masters whom lie had served under
during his long residence in that most dilli-
cult place in the world for the earning of
favorable opinion, lie had established him-
self as a man of character in a community
where there were few of such, save exceed-
ingly bad, weak and degenerate ones. Actu-
ally, the authorities were sorry to be about
to lose him. Mr. Mason voiced this sentiment
quite sentimentally.
‘‘Well, Tom,” hi l said as they gazed down
across the settlement on the flat below —the
two gaols, tin' hospital, barracks, stores and
officers' dwellings— to the. blue waters out
across the reef, “there she is, an’ ‘tis the
first time I’ve been sorry to see her arrive.
And d’ye know why, old friend? I'll tell
,ve. 'Tis because she's a-goin' to take awav
a man I’ve got to like as well as I ever liked
any man. A good man, a true man —one
as'll be a real loss to this God-forsaken
island. That’s how 1 feel about your going.
Tom, an' I know there’s others feels th’
same. That I do. I know how I’ll miss
you in the Stores, too. I’ye never had a
better assistant from amongst the prisoners.’
For a little time ’Pom Holloway made no
reply to this valedictory eulogy on the part
of his friend. Ill's strong jaws champed the
quid of tobacco, and his blue eyes gnz .1
over the lovely scene—lovely only at a dis-
tance —that spread itself before them. Peter
Mason could see that the burly ex-convict,
hard and rough-looking, was touched and
moved by his words. Both sat in silence for
a little while—Mason smoking, his com-
panion ruminating his cud after the manner
of a thoughtful cow—and at hist Holloway
spoke.
" Tis kind of ye to say all that, Peter.
All I've got to say is that ye've been a good
boss to a man who was a rani had 'un bad
as they make 'em. Afore lie come here, l
mean.”
“I find it hard to believe, Tom.”
" 'Tis God's own truth. . Ye know they
sent me out from home when I was a laii
over a mat ter of set tin' snares in the Rec-
tor's glebe at Great Bingham, in Kent -
seven year for ponohin’! Well, I done me
seven year—mostly in th' road gangs an I
a hell of a time l had a-doin’ of ’em. I'p
ards o’ live hundred lashes I've suffered.
Peter, an’ one time I come very close to
being hung. But that was after, when 1
was free, an' th' System had turned
me into th' pebble f was. There warn't no-
thing 1 and stick at doin’. Devilment an’
anger 'tvvas over th’ way I’d been treated
as a prjs'ner. Flogged, an’ starved, an'
worked in chains that was heavier than the
ord'nary, because they reckoned I was extra
strong an’ more dang’rous than th’ hav'rage.
I tell ye. it turned me from a decent boy
into something more like a devil than a man.”
"What did they come nigh bangin’ ye for,
Tom V”
Holloway spal out his quid and trans-
ferred another fragment of black tobacco
from his trouser pocket to his mouth.
"I was eedar-gettin’ on th' Williams River,
up above Noocastle, for wages, an’ carryin’
on every devil mint I could think of —to*get
even like. Th’ Commandant, Major Moris-
sett —you know him—was a holy terror, an’
he had a .big boat he used for to travel up
an' down th’ rivers in. wi’ th’ triangles
rigged in th’ bows, an' a cabin in th' stain
for himself. Well, he come to th' Green
Hills one time, an’ I reckoned ’twould be a
tine flash tiling for to get a-hoit of this ’civ
barge an’ drift her down th’ stream an’
burn her. lie was that proud of her. an’
such a—— tyrant, it seemed a first-rate
way o' givin' him one for his nob. I tried
to do it while the crew an’ th’ sojers was
ashore a-cookin’ of their dinners, hut I was
seen an’ chased an’ caught be th’ Major
hisself, a-horseback. He was mad wi’ rage,
an' took a rope an’ hanged me to th' limb
of a big tree, there on th’ hill overlookin’
Wallis Plains.”
"Good God, man! He’d no right to do
such a thing as that!”
"O’ course he hadn’t, an’ he knew it, so
he let me down afore I was proper choked
to death, an’ brought me to wi' brandv-wine
an committed me for trial at tlr Sessions
in Noocastle, wore the Jedge give me seven
y;»*tr transportation to this place.”
"Lord ! I’d never forgive him for that—
for th’ hangin’, I mean. He’d ought to have
been tried himself for doing such a thing
He’d no power for to do that. God how
you must hate him, Tom !”
Holloway turned to look at his friend, and
smilingly shook his head.
“No—-contrariwise. I’m more glad h«
done it than for anything what’s ever hap-
pened me.” 1
“Glad!”
‘‘Aye, Peter—glad an’ thankful.”
J)amme. Tom. ye must be simple !”
® f it; leastways for a man
wantm eddieation. Look ye, Peter w’en I
wa s a-hangin’ up to that there big tree,
through all th pain an chokin’ there come
a queer dream a-runnin’ through me head
I was a great voice bellerin’ in me ’ears:
lorn Holloicay, I'm, God. an' you’re a
—— tool. Gimme y' r promise ye’ll no on
1h square an- 111 spare y'r life an’
one day I’ll, give ye this ’ere tree an’ tld land
it, stands on for yr oxen!’
"Ale throat was burnin’ an’ me neck a-
crackin an me lights a-burstin’ for air so
i bach—in this ’ere dream o’ course •
‘Oh, God, I promise!’
“Then it got all dark, an’ when I com'
to proper in th’ cells I knew I was a changed
man. So I bless th’ Major, an’ I bless God
A mighty, an I bless that there great tro. '
(Continued on next page,)


Hidden Dangers
In 'four Skin.
DON’T neglect any skin trouble! The
slightest eruption holds serious possibili-
ties of disfigurement and even pain.
At the first unpleasant symptom, anoint the
place with Zam-Buk, purest and rarest of
healing balms. This great skin soother and
purifier is proved most efficacious.
Again, when the skin is stricken with eczema,
or is poisoned or inflamed, Zam-Buk is the one
external medicine that gets at the root cause
of the trouble. Being a refined substance of
herbal origin, Zam-Buk is able to soak through
the pores into the underlying tissues.
Zam-Buk stops pain and itching, subdues
inflammation, kills disease germs, expels
poisonous impurities and grows new healthy
skin. No lardy ointment or mineral salve can
possibly do the same good. Zam-Buk is
Nature’s great skin purifier.
yam-Buk
For cuts, bruises, burns, scalds, wounds,
eruptions, septic sores, piles, bad legs and
scalp troubles, Zam-Buk is acknowledged
indispensable. Price, 1/6 box, and 3 6
family size. All Chemists.
è
i swung to. Ever since then I’ve bin wot
they calls ‘a model pris’ner’ —an’ ye know
’tis no easy thing, Peter, for to be that in
Norfolk Island.”
“No, indeed, that it ain’t. But you’ve been
all of it, and more, Tom. What are ye
thinkin’ of a-doin’ when ye get back yon-
der?” He pointed to the south-west. “Have
ye any plan? Have ye thought about itr
I’m a-goin’ for to give ye a letter to me
brother in New England—the country to the
north of Hunter’s lliver, and behind lort
Macquarie, that’s newly opened up. l ie s
got a cattle station there, and'll be glad to
have a man I can recommend as I can you
■—even if he has but just done seven year at
Norfolk Island!”
“I thank ye hearty, Peter. I’d no plan
but for to get work somewhere up-country,
and to work an’ save, and then”
He hesitated and looked a little shyly at
the other man on the log.
' “Yes —and then, Tom ?” asked 1 eter
Mason.
“Why, I’ll buy that tree, o’ course, and the
land it; grows on,” said Tom Holloway
simply.
Just at dusk on a winter evening in 1849
the mail coach from the north drove into
the yard of the Northumberland Hotel in
the high street of West. Maitland and de-
posited its load of various kinds of male and
female passengers, well wrapped up against
the bleakness of the cohl und sleety weather
through which they had driven all day from
the stopping-place of the night before at the
township of Singleton, up the river on 1 at-
rick's Plains. Gladly the driver flung his
reins to the grooms who came running out
of the stables to attend the four steaming
horses, and betook himself to the bar for
“something hot.” The guard unstrapped lus
musket from the boot where it had been use-
lessly and inaccessibly stowed throughout the
journey down, and saw to the, transference
of her Majesty’s mailbags to the light gig
i hut was to take them on to Morpeth, where
they would be transferred to the steam packet
that was to carry them down the river and
by sea to Sydney. After claiming their lug-
gage from the boot of the coach, the travel-
lers also betook themselves gladly into the
warmth and cheer of the famous old Hunter
River inn. There was no better-known or
more justly-esteemed tavern in New South
Wales than the Northumberland seventy-odd
years ago. It compared altogether favor-
ably with the Royal Hotel itself in Sydney.
And that was to say a good deal.
One of the passengers—a burly man who,
from the whiteness of the hair that showed
beneath the flat brim of his chimney-pot hat,
might have been sixty-five or so, but from
i he souareness of his immensely broad shoul-
ders and the air of active strength that
was his was more likely fifteen years youn-
ger (as a matter of fact, lie was only forty-
eight)—made his way immediately to the
commercial room instead of booking his
apartment at the office as the other pas-
sengers were doing, and pulled the bell-cord
for the waiter. He st<n>d with his back to
the fire—and there you may behold Mr.
Thomas Holloway, of Black Creek station,
on the Mooki River, whom last you met as a
recently-liberated prisoner on the hillside
above Kingston in Norfolk Island !
lli.s strong, red face was clean shaven
save for a fringe of white whisker below
the jaw v , and when he took his hat off and
laid it upon the mantelshelf beside the glass
case of stuffed parakeets, his thick crop
of hair was white also. It is true that In'
was still on the lower side of fifty years ot
age, but seven years in the iron gangs and
seven years at Norfolk Island, and upwards
of 500 lashes of the cat-o’-nine-tails —to say
nothing of once having been hanged by the
neck until he was a quarter dead —were quite
enough to account for premature greyness in
a strong man of forty-eight. Plenty of people
of that age are grey or bald without nearly
such sufficient reason.
“Good even to ye, .Timmy,” he greeted the
waiter. “Has Mr. Peter Mason been a-askin’
for me yet?”
“He’s in th’ bar this minit, Mr. Holloway.
Shall I be askin’ him to step this way, sir?”
From the man’s tone it was evident; that
Tom Holloway had become a person of some
importance in the community.
“No. I’ll go find him me.self. I could
do with a nobbier. Here’s a half-a-crown
for ye, Jimmy. Get me a room, will ye, like
a good fellie, and ha’ this valise here sent
up to it. An’ me an’ Peter Mason’ll take a
bit o’ supper together. In a private room.
We’ve some business to talk over. Ye can
(ix that up?”
“Aye, sir, easy. No trouble at all. 111 see
to it, Mr. Holloway, sir.”
“Well, Peter,” said Tom Holloway as he
and his friend of the Stores at Norfolk
Island —now one of the principal merchants
and shipowners of Newcastle —sat at supper
together in a firelit, cosy room—“and what
have ye done about the matter I wrote ye
in my letter last month? Was there any-
thing could be done about buying this Mil-
ler’s Grant at East Maitland?”
“I’ve done all you asked, Tom. and a bit
more on my own account, which I’m sure
you'll approve. I’ve purchased the land and
the house that stands on it —a brick cottage
that’s in pretty good order, and the ten acres
of land on which it stands. You may con-
sider that it’s yours—and, all things con-
sidered, that you’ve got it at a bargain. Its
price comes to a good deal less than the
amount of the draft you forwarded me upon
your Sydney agents.”
“Good lad! And the tree?”
Peter Mason shook his head. “As to the
tree, I don’t know whether it’s standing.
There are five trees near the house, any one
of which may be the one you mean —the one
you attach so much importance to possess-
ing. Of course, I could not tell. But if you
recognised it when you visited the place ten
years ago, most likely it's there yet. How-
ever, I’ve got my gig in the stables here and
will drive over there to-morrow. You can
make certain then. If it’s not standing, the
sale is not yet concluded, and you need not
finish the deal unless you wish to. Will
you take the land without the tree?”
Tom Holloway thought seriously for a few
moments. “Oh, yes, I think so. ’Tis the
place is the thing, after all—the place where
I was converted; where I made God the
promise that I’ve surely kept. ’
“Aye, Tom,” smiled Peter Mason across
the table, nodding to his friend. "You've
surely kept your word. As to the tree, we’ll
make certain in the morning.”
But in the morning a hurricane was rag-
ing, and it was not for two days that this
strange pilgrimage to a stranger shrine could
be undertaken. On the third morning after
his arrival at the Northumberland, Tom Hol-
loway and Peter Mason drove across Wallis
Creek to East Maitland, and walked on foot
up the hill to where the cottage on Miller’s
Orant stood near the summit of the ridge.
As they came close up to the red brick,
shingled house, Peter Mason stopped sud-
denly, and laid a hand upon his companion's
arm.
“By the Lord, Tom,” he exclaimed, “one
of 'em’s been blown over by the gale!”
Silently they continued towards the cot-
tage. A great gum-tree, evidently very aged,
lay prostrate on the ground, some twenty
yards in front of the stone-flagged verandah,
snapped off close to the butt, its great
branches and dense foliage a jumbled mass
of fractured wreckage. Tom Holloway stood
and contemplated its ruin in silence for a
good five minutes. At length he spoke.
“Peter,” he said, "the Lord gave and ilia
Lord hath taken away!"
You may find that spot to-day in an old
garden near the gaol. There is a tombstone
there—a Hat one, half-hidden in long grass,
and on it is inscribed:
Here Lies,
In the Hope of a Glorious Resurrection,
Mb. Thomas Holloway.
Died June 2nd, 1871,
Aged 70 Teaks.
Ox Tins Spot, Nove.mbeb ith, lß2fi,
He Nearly Met His Death, But
Found Grace Instead.
R.I.P.


-
•v;--
.
Bm
MS
■:■■;■
!il
f ?*.4
US
m
*alß^ss‘
»s®fSs
WESTIN G HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD
Agents—H O.L IVIES * CHIKCH, Brisbane L ' U *»
T, C J® D WEST - N - s - WUES
are err;?:- Ad „. u .. BA .
Always “Firs/” m Queensland Advertising.
The BRISBANE COURIER
MEDIUM.
In 192? the “Courier” carried 9,070 columns more thn
Kd n b/ 4T err | Porary - 1? 1928 t,lp “Courier” increased its
over S 8 "" a ,ot "' ot »•«»
Its simply because the “COURIER” is first in Queensland .in
CIRCULATION, ADVERTISING AND INFLUENCE.
Rate Cards and speoim n copies from ROBT. D, FISHER,
74 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone B 5007.
Published by the Brisbane 'Newspaper Co, “ Courier ” 1
afreet, Brisbane; also publishers of the “Queenslander ” and “
Building, Queen
Sports Referee."
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
Tasmanian
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue is eagerly read by men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFIC E; F . L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 228
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: "Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
tbe Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements .
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may he
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Cordon & Gfotch, price 1 id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone, MA3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
For Any Advertising Campaign in
Queensland Let Your First Choice Be
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE.
and its companion journal, “The Sunday Mail,”
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine.
“The Daily Mail” is the big morning paper with a
greater nett circulation than any other daily in the
State.
“The Sunday Mail” covers in one day the entire
metropolitan circulation of Brisbane’s four dailies.
For advertising rates and other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE, Ciyne Home, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Sifid light! Headlight!
Siomdtijk'CM tight!
with time who taka
gt/duutid
im
5«
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
TUESDAY—Price 3d
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
9
<%>
FOR 86 YEARS
“ The Examiner” has been the trusted Friend of the Family
in Northern Tasmania. It is' the Oldest Newspaper in
Tasmania, and is still the Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS
Pty. Ltd.,
73*75 Patterson Street,
LAUNCESTON.
MR. V. W. MARGETTS.
122 Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE
MR. W. G. DOUGAN,
701 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
X
W K
o* 1
i)r
0°
* 6 ’'
? <& ....
0
ae v
' <|V AV ** ~.-• -.*■•’>£s&
4
•<y*


53
■
i
m
h)
New Chrysler "75” Tow.t Sedan,^
1? "D
XZ/ iv
New Grace, New Style, New Beauty
Greater Wue
Chrysler’s new style is so original
that imitation even in the least detail
must plainly indicate the source of
inspiration.
Its pleasing grace more than ever
obsoletes the bulky and cumbersome .
The new Chryslers differ from all
other motor-cars in their utterly new
treatment of slender-profile radiator,
air-wing fenders, arched windows
—to mention only a few of a host
of style features- --added to a per-
formance which out-Chryslers even
Chrysler.
The simple fact that thousands of
people now realise that not even
another hundred pounds will buy
style, performance, comfort, safety,
dependability and long life equal
to the new Chrysler, is arousing a
demand that Chrysler’s largest pro-
duction is taxed to the limit to satisfy.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Larhe, Weave & Carter Ltd., William St., Sydney
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Collins Street, Melbourne
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust : O. T, Rodda
Ltd., Flinders St.,
West. Aust.: William Attwood. 299-301 Murray St., Perth,
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
H.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington.
Hew Guinea: W. R. Carpenter Sr Co. Ltd., Rabaul.
è
