

V
<v
\
Sr
*
5?
m
fo
Si
*
s
0
<7
O
o
ss
o-
AM. YOU
TO
NEED
SAY FOR
GOOD
The Bulletin
dC&o /dttFru : otov'k, JL^vdju
Vol. 50.—N0. 2554.
Wednesday, January 23, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


\WRITE FORfcTHE LIBRARY CATA-
” Afe) LISTS on all subjects
wlichwiU be fcrwardsd on application?®
BOOK ARCADE LTD
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SIDNEY.
ManccJoiffnaUsm
TKts Booß FREE to YOU l
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
lt)0 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney BclletiSi.
tyy Name
My Address
é
STAMMERING AND STUTTERING
CAN BE CURED IN YOUR OWN HOME
Sen’ll TO-DAI for particulars of “Perfect Speech” and copies of letters from
those who have been cured. Philip O’Bryen Hoare, M.8.1.M.5c. (London) (The
Stammerers Friend), Specialist in Phblie Speaking and the Cure of Stammering
and Stuttering.
ADDRESS:
56 BRISBANE ARCADE, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
P.O. Bex 1142 P.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
TJke prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller .
Wanderings in Wild Australia
By Sir BALDWIN SPENCER.
K.C.M.G., F.R.S., author of “The
Arunta,” “Across Australia,” etc.
Two vols. Illustrated. 425. net.
Letters of the Empress Frederick
Edited' by the Right Hon. SIR
FREDERICK PONSONB Y,
G.C.8., G.C.V.O. Illustrated. 255.
net.
Early Life of Thomas Hardy,
1840-1891
By FLORENCE EMILY HARDY.
With portraits and illustrations.
18s. net.
.
After Thirty Years
By the Right Hon. THE VIS-
COUNT GLADSTONE, P.C ,
G.C.M.G. With portraits and other
illustrations. 21s. net.
The Tagore Birthday Book
(Selected from the English Wotks
of Rabindranath Tagore.) Edited
by C. F. ANDREWS.
7s. 6d. net.
Worlds Within Worlds
A Book of Travel Sketches. Bv
STELLA BENSON. With illustra-
tions by the Author, Bs. 6d. net.
The Outline: “It is certain that no more
amusing book about the East has ever been
written than this one."
Tq bo Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
C.T.P. 57
If any illustration in The Buixetin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian'’
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
South Australia’s Brightest Daily.
Since 1836.
Young in Thought.
Quick in Action.
Delivered by Aeroplane to Various
Country Centres.
Broadcast Your Advertising
Message throughout the
Great Central State
in
THE REGISTER,
which is read by ali classes,
Proprletorss
W. K. THOMAS & CO., Adelaide.
ERIC N. BIRKS, H.S.W. Representative.
Telephone XSIB7.
G. N. BEDNALL, Argus Building, Melbourne.
FOR SALE
“ Coonardoo ” Illustrations
The original drawings, by C. H. Percival, are
now for sale.
The Manager,
THE BULLETIN OFFICE, SYDNEY.
I
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE
The Great Insect Destroyer—
KILLS ALL
nvei
SOLD AT CHEMISTS, GROCERS
ud STORES, Price If
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY,
Melbourne, Agents.
is
The Red Page
A Red Page Series
e
Ten Years
David Wright began at the very beginning
with the verse I had submitted—taught me
the simplest and most obvious metrification
rules, and stood beside me in the pit of
disappointment and self-mistrust. At last
one “poem” got through, about 10 years
ago, and I was made free of the city of
light.
That was only personally happy and
interesting for me, of course; but it hap-
pens that that particular decade has been
in a way a turning-point in Australian
letters, a witnessing of the change from
long-established old ways to the new ones
that are coming into being now.
The city of light was a little narrower
then—all the more fervent and sublimated
for that, but suffering the honorable defects
of its qualities. We were told to be brief;
to adhere to the bare bones; to put, so far
as possible, truth on our paper. Truth-
with-ginger naturally had a better chance,
but “plaCin truth” was often mentioned as
a manuscript-asset. Henry Lawson was
the chief inhabitant then, and he never
ROD QUINN, from a recent etching by
Mick Paul.
wrote anything but the living truth. What
he did in a way established what we were
all to try to do.
This cramped the general style for that
moment, though it made a good working
foundation. David did manage to get grace
or laughter round his rendering of the
truth; and Randolph Bedford occasionally
punched a little more enthusiastic ginger
into it than the truth would hold. “Kodak”
systematically mocked, and Rod Quinn
came smiling round the corner of the “ould
track” with a few brief and romantic lyrics
in his pocket. But truth and brevity were
the bosses. There was a feeling of personal
adventure, of actual happening in most of
the copy; even Hugh McCrae’s vivid
piquant music of that time seemed to imply
the memory of some moment of Hugh’s
rather than an imagining.
This really healthy state of affairs had
obtained for a good many years befdre I
entered the gates of the city. As I have
implied, it had its heroic duality 0 f
and vivid life. I think it gave our joumal-
ism taken as a whole an artistic as well as
a popular value; at its lowest level, the
Attic salt was not absent from gossip para-
graphs; and, at its highest, it achieved the
bracketing of Henry Lawson’s stories with
those of De Maupassant and Edgar Allen
Poe as the world’s best.
But, like the figures and types in Harry’s
yarns, the Australia demanding only the
bare truth was passing away. An Australia
of wider imagination, an Australia with
more time to consider imaginings built out
of the nation’s spirit instead of leaning oil
its pioneer job, was supervening and asking
for entertainment.
We wrote longer stories. As the years
passed we were allowed to put more and
more of ourselves into the matter. Less
and less were we cautioned as to the bare
bones of Australian truths. We found in
time 'hat if the copy was written sincerely .
and au a good level of personal conviction
it went in, if it was as far from Australian
truth as Buenos Ayres or New York or Paris.
Our elbow-room was enlarged, overlapping
into the good province of sympathy which
has' little or nothing to do with the bare
bones of any country’s truth. In a word,
we were gradually promoted from Australian
journalists to men of letters who happened
to be writing for an Australian paper.
“What do they know of England, who
only England know?” Vance Palmer, an
artist to his pen-nib, got a good many stories
published in American and English papers.
So did Randolph Bedford. David got a
sonnet into the London Mercury. A score
or so of other inhabitants achieved the
London publication of novels, nearly all
with workable success. Ties began to be
formed with this or that overseas organi-
sation, the benefit of the interacting in-
fluences all being felt in the new Australian
letters. Certain English publishers took a
very definite and productive interest in
anything Australian, going so far as to ask
for the first “reading” of any matter in-
tended for book publication. Important
editors and agents wrote suggesting the sub-
mission of copy. E)uring this decade we
have edged as a body gradually but firmly
into an international status.
To take the keystone of the present struc-
ture, we have reached the point where The
Bulletin (whose watchwords were brevity
and truth) organises a great competition
for a fiction serial, not arbitrarily Australian
in content, of some 80,000 words. Ten years
ago such an event was unimaginable; but
every passing year of the ten has made
it more certainly inevitable. To me it is
the most significant event in the half-
century of Australia’s literary life. It is
our documented achievement of the inter-
national focus, our dramatic testifying that
our foundations of Australian brevity and
truth are now well and truly laid at last.
Now come the arches of Australian dream.
HILARY LOFTING.
The Devil and All His Works
In all lands and in all ages mankind,
while outwardly professing a regard for
the children of light only, has kept a wary
eye cocked on the powers of darkness. The
old Scottish lady who reproved a grandson
for professing disbelief in the Deuce with
“Laddie, dinna blaspheme,” was not alone
in her generation, nor would she have been
in many another before and since. The
daily round of our ultra-modern civilisa-
tion is full of semi-unconscious observances
which link us with the primeval savage.
Like him, we may be all for the angels,
but still able to admit, in' an emergency
when all else has seemed to fail, that “the
de’il is no’ that bad.”
So, when Montagu Summers, in his His-
tory of Demonology and Witchcraft
(Kegan Kaul), leads us down many strange
and devious paths, which Cabell might fear
to tread, into the obscene arcana that
underlie the placation or the propitiatory
worship of evil and terror, the most doubt-
ful might follow with instinctive interest.
For Summers is none of your half-way folk
who would gloss over the story of Satan’s
reign on earth as set out in detail by the
chroniclers of the Middle Ages and their
followers. He makes no pretence of ex-
plaining away strange happenings and cir-
cumstantial accounts by eye-witnesses and
participants as being due to mystic cults,
agricultural-sexual rites and other matters
having their foundations in the tribal
policy, as is the wont of the anthropologist
so popular and so confident to-day. And
the fact that Summers is a scholar and a
churchman of high repute, and a notable
writer on this and kindred subjects, makes
it difficult to deride his opinion that the
Devil so m:*ny of us had supposed was
dead is still going up and down on the
earth seeking whom he may devour; that
he still holds his Sabbats and encompasses
(Continued on page 5.)


"•Truth in Advertising," the basis of honest trading.
Anthony Horderns'
Use our D.P.S.
Anthony Horderns’ offer many
remarkable bargains during their
Genuine Sale, and if you do not wish
to pay cash, why not make use of our
Deposit-Purchase System? In this
way you may participate in these
great savings without inconvenience to
yourself. Just leave a small deposit
on the goods you require, pay the
balance to suit yourself, and when
payments are completed the goods
are delivered in the usual way.
Remember you pay the cash Sale
Price. No interest charged.
ê
m
11 ■'
M
I
a m
vm
w
nv-
iill
»»»«£
I!;? ? ! i
iliiiißslJWii
•- '.cTiyr^nm
iISI
mm
88 88
m
Iw
&?■■&■;
h *
Such Saving's on Furniture
are onlp offered bp Anthonp Horderns’
's*k
<T
c==>
C_-
Offer of
Low Boys
These are made in our own Factory,
which enables us to offer them at the
lowest Sale Price possible. The wood
is specially selected Pacific Oak and
Maple. Finely finished and strongly
constructed, and will give utmost
service. The illustration shows—on
the left the extending rod for Coat
Hangers and Sliding Mirrors in doors.
On the right the Hat Recess, three
Sliding Trays and extending Trouser
and Tie Holder. Anthony Horderns’
Price, each £ll/10/-
Sale price, each £7/17/6
ë
13/- Saved on Beautifully Finished
TRAYMOBILE
These are made in our own Factory and are stoutly and
thoroughly constructed as well as artistic in appearance, and
can be depended upon to give long service. The size is
33x17 inches, and there are two trays loosely fitted to
the stand, which is run on cutter type castor. Price, 42/6.
Sale Price 29/6
Furniture Department—Ground Floor.
Free delivery in City and Suburbs only.
29fe
!^3
OPEN UNTIL 9 P.M. EVERY FRIDAY.
Anthony Horderns 1
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G,P,o,


mt
JS8
■w
s.
22
3%
««
V'A'.Vv
%
as
III*
&
,V>
■ i?
-:<w
H
%
%
t
Wkmmm
m
&
'ImWSk
m
Sjlh
%
. <>1)1)111
i. ii M **
WHM"
--i'll -int in initl'.i"
•'“» J IU1I» •
cx
§8
1
1
1
HERE is no need
to ponder the
merits of this or
that brand of
hat. With entire confi-
dence you may select a
Q
Obtainable at all the
leading Men's Stores
1 ersona lity
M4 A PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT HATS PTY. LTD


A Worsted Suit
TAILORED TO'MEASURE
Sale price
8
Less 10 per cent.
Suits that would ordinarily cost 9, 10 or 11 guineas ! A specially selected
range of the newest fancy Worsteds embodying David Jones’ excellent
workmanship and finish. Forty different patterns for choice. Usually
9, 10 and 11 guineas. One Sale Price .. .. .. .. Bgns.
Less 2/- in the £ for Cash
Lower Ground Floor, New Store, & George Street Shop opp. G.P.O.
DAVID JONES’ SALE
us with his familiars; that his incubi and
succubi still tempt and betray frail
humanity.
The Big and very much in earnest tome
is as remarkable for the author’s erudi-
tion as for his unshakable faith in his
thesis. It is no less notable for the copious
notes which follow each chapter. These
are mostly in Monk Latin or Middle
French, and even to the scoffer convey a
sense of the vast importance the subject
matter held for the chroniclers and law-
makers of the Middle Ages and later, in
these notes are unfolded, in quotations from
Papal Bulls, encyclical letters and episcopal
injunctions, a startling revelation of what
the so-called practice of witchcraft really
stood for in its heyday. This was not so
much the calling-up of tempests or the lay-
ing of charm or blight as the sexual ex-
cesses of the pagan Dionysian festival, of
which it was a lineal descendant. It is
to this phase of the question that the
author particularly addresses himself. He
has made out a plausible, if rather unplea-
sant, case—that, though instigated by the
Evil One in person, the Sabbats were meet-
ings of human beings with a presiding offi-
cial impersonating the Fiend and usually
draped in skins of beasts with horns and
other appropriate regalia. A great number
of clerical fulminations against the donning
of such disguises are quoted, and are strong
evidence that the forbidden practice was
a common one and that its real purport
was well understood. These “covens” or
gatherings were frequently seen in France
and Germany and even in Scotland in the
Middle Ages, when war and pestilence had
reduced the lower strata of the populace
to almost unbelievable degradation. The
secret meetings were the only relief from
the misery of everyday existence. At them
there was relaxation into revelry and license
in lands that recognised neither for the
poor and wretched, and, as was natural,
this exceeded all bounds of decency and
restraint. A recognised feature of the ritual
was the orgiastic part played by the pre-
siding genius. There is a great mass of
evidence in support from participants in
the Sabbats, particularly the feminine ele-
ment.
Those endeavoring to explain away the
accounts of these Sabbats as the imagin-
ings of hysteria have made much of the
fact that the ritual as described could not
possibly be conducted by mere mortals,
while the existence of a corporeal Satan is
scorned by them as too monstrous for be-
lief. Putting aside the question of the
Evil One’s actual existence, the author
claims that the first objection is easily
explained away, and advances a convincing
array of evidence. His authorities range
from Aristophanes, who treats of the matter
in his “Lysystrata” and in other works,
and from Petronius and other lay writers
to the fulminations of Buchard of Worms,
and the “Penetentials” of the Fathers, while
even the Papacy is quoted as showing that
practices of -the kind alleged were general
in classical and mediaeval society. The
theory goes far to upset the contentions of
the modern anthropologist and ethnologist
that the whole basis of the vast cult of
witchcraft and demonology was based on
delusion. However, anyone desiring to
pursue this phase of a curious subject
further may refer to the notes before men-
tioned, which in their wealth of detail and
quoted authority are hardly excelled by
those of Richard Burton to his edition of
the “Thousand and One Nights.”
In addition to the long section dealing
with the Sabbat, which is the keystone of
his thesis, the author deals profoundly with
diabolic possession, witch worship, the witch
in Holy Writ, the witch in dramatic litera-
ture, and with demons and familiars. His
is a strange and interesting book, with an
entirely new viewpoint for a modern work
of its kind, and all the more interestin' - ; for
that, even if it is not virginibus puerisque,
it probes from a new angle a question
which human imagination is never content
to let entirely alone.
J. B. H.
Drinking Songs
I was reading Drinking Songs and Other
Songs, by W. R. Titterton (Palmer), in the
tram on December 29 when a firm finger
poked me in the knee. Over the top of the
slender book I saw a great hearty face,
two jungles of eyebrow, laughing grey eyes,
a big nose and a wide mouth breaking into
a vast grin. “Learnin’ ’em for New Year’s
eve?” he said. “Great stuff, aren’t they?”
I had met a good critic.
In a characteristic introduction, G. K.
Chesterton speaks of these songs as “songs
that can really be sung, because I have sung
them myself; and a more complete proof
of lyrical adaptability and powerful con-
tagion of melody could not be found.” Mr.
Chesterton, of course, speaks of the audible
sort of singing. It is a variation of the old,
old fallacy that poetry to be thoroughly
appreciated must be intoned aloud. It over-
looks the ruination a poor voice brings to
any word melody, and nearly every voice is
poor. I, at any rate, have never heard pure
poetry satisfactorily enunciated. I have
never heard even prose enunciated as
satisfactorily as my silent, inner voice can
manage. Surely it is all a fallacy. Surely
the inner voice in us all i» more perfect,
the inner ear more fastidious and exquisite,
than the other. Surely it is not necessary
to sing aloud these singing lines of Titter-
ton’s to soar with them; to know their
"powerful contagion”:—
The beer they brew in Burton
Is brown as autumn bowers ;
It holds the glint of autumn skies,
The seent of autumn flowers.
The beer they brew in Burton
Is strong as heart’s desire;
The man that drains a pot or two
Shall leap the highest spire;
Shall fly on wings of amber light
Beyond the morning star,
And find the choiring cherubim
Beside him in the bar.
(Chorus, gentlemen, please 1)
How the inner voice rollicks through it, the
inner ear tingles with a secret delight. Is
that not all of poetic appreciation—secret
delight? Do we gain a fraction of the finer
joy through gathering together in a herd
and beefing such lines to the ceiling? I
don’t think so. We get an enjoyment, and a
robust and manly one enough; but we lose
the fine joy on our bargain. I do not, of
course, include in “we” those gentry and
ladies who have* a passion for uplifting
their voices in choir and chorus at every
opportunity! the enjoyment they get breeds
from vanity, from the hearing of themselves,
not from a hearing of the poet’s voice.
The oak-tree meets the sunrise, lads,
Half-tempest and half gold.
When I .was young, when I was young
This English oak was old.
The oak-tree braves the noontide, lads,
Like granite rock abud;
But the roots of him, the roots of him
Are quick with English blood.
Is it necessary to raise the voice to hear?
‘Heard melodies are sweet, but those un-
heard are sweeter”: Keats, poet through and
through, knew it better than most. But
surely there is a little of the quality in ail
of us. For those who have it not the music
is included with these drinking songs. The
book can be opened out on the rickety
piano in the country pub parlor after the
cricket match (they do not sing like that
in the city, not in Sydney, anyway; if you
laugh aloud it is an offence). That after the
cricket will be a rare old night; but I fancy
the chap who takes the book along will
have had his finest joy of it first—a joy
that noise will not help him to recapture.
CECIL MANN.
A Satchel of Books.
Ihe Mayor of Troy and Major Vigoureus.
i n Dent’s handsome
J)ntcliy edition of the tales and romances
of Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch. There ar e to
be 30 vols. in the edition, which is given
added value by “Q’s” snappy prefaces. The
price is 3s. 6d. net.
Opera Synopses, by J. Walker McSpadden
(Harrap). A new edition of the handy and
interesting guide to the plots and characters
of the standard operas, enlarged by 23
additions, which brings the total of operas
summarised up to 86. Informative and also
entertaining reading even for those who
never see an opera—perhaps more so for
them than lor the others,
Mumbudget, by Helen Simpson (Heine-
mann). No authentic fairies having yet
been located in her own country, this young
Australian has fared abroad after them. She
has met the small people of Ireland, and
about them and the boy William she has
iashioned half a dozen haunting stories for
children. All of Molly McArthur’s eight
illustrations in color are pleasing; two of
them are uncommonly so.
Venn’s Library. Erudite, close-packed with
useful information and yet so engagingly
simple in treatment that anyone with
enough intelligence to pass a Q.C. exam,
would not be troubled by even its most
difficult subjects, this series goes on broad-
casting general knowledge at 9d. per broad-
cast. Additions include “The English Lan-
guage,” Ernest Weekley; “Insects,” F. Bal-
four Browne; “A History of Japan,” J
Ingram Bryan; “Astrophysics,” W. M
Smart; “The Islamic Faith,” Sir Thomas
Arnold; ‘ A History of Western Europe,
1—455,” M. Cary.
From, Major to Minor, Some Keys for
Anglers, by Major Kenneth Dawson, and
Hunting Lore, by “Crsscredo” (Country
Life). The bold, always well done and
nearly always humorous drawings of the
very fine illustrator who calls himself “The
Wag” greatly help the first of these books
and really make the other. Major Dawson,
in a series of thoroughly unele-ish letters,
instructs his nephew in the art of rod fishing
and does it so delightfully that even one who
agrees with Dr. Johnson that a fishing rod
is a thing with a hook at one end and a fool
at the other will read the book at great per-
sonal risk of being converted to the
sport of Izaak. ‘The Wag’s” drawings help
out the instruction in an inimitably amusing
way and complete one of the best books on
the art that has been made in years. In the
hunting book “The Wag’s” drawings are just
as good, if not a bit better, and the volume
is worth while for their sake, but the flip-
pancies of “Crascredo” are very sad experi-
ments in humorous writing.
.. The Life of Space, by Maurice Maeter-
linck (George Allen and Unwin). M. Maeter-
linck, say the publishers, “avoids mathe-
matics ; his book is for the general reader.”
So the general reader turns to, say, the
thud chapter on the Fourth Dimension and
is stunned by the sparkling simplicity:
In order to suggest an idea of this space, Pro-
fessor Oumoff has estimated that in our universe as
we know it. the volume occupied by matter
compared with the void that surrounds it
is comparable to a second in a million years •
in other words, if all the matter contained
b> all the stars that are visible through our most
powerful telescopes were rolled into a single sphere
on which was inscribed all that we know about
matter for all that we know relates only to matter
—this single sphere would float amidst as many mil-
liards of other spheres, which would contain (if
we mgy speak thus) only the vacuum of the inter-
sidereal gulfs, as there are seconds in ten thousand
centuries.
The general reader who can stand that sort
of unspeakably horrible jargon will be over-
joyed to find reviewed for him in equally
simple Jerms the theories of Hinton, Scho-
field, Ouspensky, Einstein and others with
some original ideas of M. Maeterlinck.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be tal:en of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and aairess must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Allan B.: Don’t come to Sydney. They’ll
have you up for loitering. Yet there’s good stuff
in it.... I.M.McC.: Good idea weakly handled....
S.H.C.: Better than most we have to read, but not
good enough... .H.J.T.: That Scotch yarn is older
than Scotland... .L.H.G.: Beaten in the second round.
. ...C.A.T.: Stodge.... M.S.: Jt’s simply wonderful
how the moon affects some people... .A.E.R.: A
masterly effort: —
Crikey! What’s this thing 'ere, Heeler'
What’s this dashed pink letter here?
Crikey! Have you got a sheila?
Come and have a Deer.
I thort you had the shakes
When you opened this thing ’ere.
But I always o’rects mistakes,
So come and have a beer.
.M.E.AV.: Doesn’t excite... .S.A.M.: Lady, send
it to him direct.... P.K.: They are “victims in the
holocaust of rejects’’. .. .Bardi: Value of Westralian
imports from other States, 1927-28, £9,230,600;
of exports to other States, £1,311,200. It is cer-
tainly one-sided; still, why docs Westralia persist
in sending to “the other side” for vast quantities of
confectionery, jams and jellies, wine, oatmeal, soap,
boots and shoes and apparel—to mention only a
few articles —when it produces these things itself?. . ..
E.M.M.: Can’t say what the lady did; probably she
submitted a copy to each of the four. When a
serial is to appear between covers at no great
interval, the author generally arranges to get advance
proofs passed on to the book publisher... .Boyd P.:
Mark Twain did it heaps better... .A.W.D.: Not
for this family paper... .Jindabyne: Gone where the
bad stories go. .. .W.H.R.: The feeble climax spoilt
it.. . .P.A.M.: Interesting as a cameo of character,
but not a story.... J.D.: Travel notes travelling back.
... . Mowerblade: “The Irrigator” flooded out, and
his parable with him... .A.G.A.: “I got fairly near
to being a millionaire once.” You’ll go broke if
you try to live by your pen... .T.T.T.: Not the
ghost of a chance... .8.5.: Your “Half an Orange”
is worse than no fruit... .A.G.: “I hardly expect it
will pass.” Quite g good guess. .. .D.C.L.: Admitted,
for the sake of brevity, that “crows” are “cows.”
G.H.M.: Too thin wen for fiction J.H.H.:
Interesting sketch of old times but not suitable as
a story... .AV.lt.: Too morbid, though there are
graphic bits... .C.A.G.G.: No, we don’t see a gee-
gee, nor yet a poet... .W. J.W.: Don’t care for either.
. ...P.E.S.: “Night of Waiting” earns no tip....
C'.P.: “Outback” returned to your coastal address.
.. . .Derelict: Long way off.. . .R..A.8.: Whiskers on
that idea... .D.A.S.: Both weaklings E.L.L.: The
basket has it. .. . J.J.1.: The basket wouldn’t have it.
. ...E.S.L.: Well off our track. .. .G.K.: Same to
y0u.... Toongooroo: Interest too restricted. ... P.L.:
Lines from “The Dying Striker”:—
I’m goin’, boys, the end is drawrin nearer,
There’s ’orrid sounds of drummin’ in me ears.
Don’t worry boys, for death is just like strikin’,
No work. Aar, Bill, now just you quench them
tears.
Remember, boys, no fightin* at the funeral,
But lay me calm and quiet like to rest,
And reverently, yes, take a pocket penknife
AY <arve “No Bleedin’ Scab” upon me chest.
. ...A.T.L.: Passed out, one sonnet on stilts....
I. : We like ’em alive... .M.R.: You sacrifice
too much in making your rhymes... .J.A.P.P.: Too
many j01t5.... E.L.D.: “Highway Jewel’’ tested and
declared paste. .. .C.P.: Try it elsewhere... .Trambo:
Very p00r....M.C.: Extremely frail... .S.L.R.:
“Song of the Surf’’ arrived just in time for our
annual burning-off... .E.J.: Your friends are possibly
good friends, but they’re poor judges of verse....
J. : “Fanatics” unpopular here.... W.8.P.: Fair
schoolgirl verse... .F.C.H P.: Washy effort. .. .11.11.:
Their “weak omnipotence” is g00d... .E.H.: Fair
lines, but it falls down. .. .D.G.McS.: Verse, like one
of its people, is “well on the downward side”....
A.E.C.: “Enclosed poem or perhaps apology for one”
is excused ... .L.R.B. : Misses pretty badly... .Dusty
R.: Somebody is on that camp already.... 8.J.J.:
Don’t ask us this week to print stories of Wilkins's
intrepidity. He probably knew the sort of weather
wo were going to have, and wasn’t game to stay
and face it J.G.J.: Well written, with power of
characterisation; but incidental only. Persevere and
study construction... .8.J.: No color in it, apart
from the red ink.. . .5.0.: Well done in its way, but
too depressing... .8.W.: Interesting to philologists
0n1y.... H.P.: K.C. with knife through his heart
makes an arresting opening; but that’s all there is
in it... .M.0.D.: Not far off... .T.V.R.: Descriptive
0n1y.... Deemus: More nerves than marrow....
R.M.W.: Afraid your script will never “stir the
drowsing jackass and warm him into an effulgence
of joy.” Stick to your present j0b....0’D.: Too
bluggy.... J.M.M.: English publications include
Shooting Times (weekly), £2 3s. p.a., Sydney
price; and Rifleman (monthly), Bs. 6d. p.a. Among
U.S. periodicals are Outdoor Life (monthly), 225.
6d. p.a. ; Field and Stream (monthly), 225. 6d. ;
American Rifleman (fortnightly), 305.; Punting
and Fishing (monthly), 10s.; Forest and Stream
(monthly), £l. As regards the other question, no
book has been published on the subject recently....
Electra: His full name is George Gilbert Aime
Murray; he was born at. Sydney January 2, 1866,
being the third son of Terence Aubrey Murray,
president of the Leg. Council. He married the
eldest daughter of the Earl of Carlisle, and has
been Regius Professor of Greek at Oxford since 1908.
His fame will rest on his verse translations from
the Greek dramatists, particularly Euripides; but
he has written many books on other subjects, notably
British foreign policy. A letter addressed to the
Athenaeum Club should reach him.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.E.P.: How long have you had that joke in
cold storage ?.... R.A.: A topical enough subject,
but you handle it dreadfully M.P.: Sozzled sailor
sobering up in the w.p.b R.L.P.: Your “sym-
bolical drawing” is diabolical... .W.F.G.: Not
interested in mere optical illusions.. . .D.S.: Keeping
well away from “The Bushranger’s Haunt”....
L. 5.8.: Tuition may improve you, but don’t be too
optimistic W.S.N.: Mouldy joke about prima
donna’s corsets... .P.K.: You’re a timid jester and
a crude artist... .L.W.: Dismal.


f
ippsjte
o
m
A
u
/.
&
t
a
/
% JRJI
/
-W,
:
wM
1
«
JHHi
a
~
I
ifi
I
Mil
:
ri
**
111
: ;i®*t#
m
m
fX
m
wm
"
«


The Bulletin
Vol. 50.—N0. 2554.
January 23, 1929.
WAITING FOR THE HARVEST.
"Hopes of cheap water for irrigated farms as the result of the Murray River damming project are fading. Owing to the tremendous cost of the works, settlers will
be loaded with interest on four times the sum originally mentioned.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE;
ZU George Street, Sydney.
Victoria: lV r 2O Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 2)S Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London: 56 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
xoeekly: 12 months, £1 l/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.j
3 months, Is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 1/oz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional Ijoz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: ioz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . .. 5
THE FRONT PAGE—By Leason 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
Democracy Diddled .. 8
The Law and the Motor-car .. 8
KINGS IN KABUL 8
Trams or ’Buses? 9
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 9
POLITICS (with caricatures) 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) 11, 12
PERSONAL —with three caricatures .. .. 14
“Tactics”
—Drawn by Scorfield .. .. .. .. 15
POVERTY POINT 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) . . . • 17
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
N.Z. LOAN & MERCANTILE . . , . • • 18
QUEENSLAND PROBATE INSURANCE . . . . 18
WARBURTON FRANKI .. 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 23, 25
“THE CONVERT”—A drawing by Alf Vincent.. 25
Free Service Department • .. 26
PRIZES FOR FARMERS . . . . . . • ■ 28
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 29
SMOKE-OH 32
PEN AND PICTURE 37
NEW WORTH-WHILE MOVIES 37
SPORTING (Illustrated) 39, 41, 42
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 44
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 46
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 49
“Bracken” 34, 55, 58
COMPLETE STORIES—
“The Loo”
By Margaret Fane & Hilary Lofting .. 51, 58
“The Sunny Side of Suicide”
By Edouard A. Aujard .. .. .. .. 57
VERSE 53, 58
Tne'^nlleixm,
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 1929.
THE FRAUD ON DEMOCRACY.
It is a quaint anomaly that no sooner does
a modem nation possess the fullest measure
of democratic government than it either
acquires or is threatened with a Govern-
ment which is no more than camouflaged
autocracy.
England, which has had newspaper gov-
ernment for several years, is a case in point.
Lord Northcliffe started it with the Daily
Mail. A decade ago the Northcliffe
papers, ranging in importance from the
Times down to Comic Cuts, were enter-
ing at least five million British homes.
Then Lord Beaverbrook’s Daily Express,
under the ablest “tabloid” editor in the
world, started catching up with the Daily
Mail, and, as a result of last month’s
scathing High Court judgment which ended
the Mail’s football competitions, the
Express may pass its rival. The Lord Chief
Justice called these competitions “patent
infringements of the Lotteries Act,” and
London Truth expressed the view of many
when it said; “This method of inflating so-
called ‘net sales’ is a prostitution of
journalism.” However, so far as the public
are concerned, Amurath to Amurath will
succeed. There is no difference, ethically
or intellectually, between a Rothermere
(late Northcliffe) and a Beaverbrook
press. Two other groups, it is true, are
in the fight. Allied Newspapers, Ltd.,
really the Berry brothers, control most of
the great provincial dailies, and William
Harrison, of Yorkshire, has bought the
London Chronicle, several great Liberal
papers in the provinces and the leading
illustrated weeklies. Harrison began as a
paper-manufacturer, and only decided on
the other business when the price of his
goods began to slump—an interesting
example of the lines on which the people
acquire their guides these days.
The effect on the status of journalism
can be seen already. The newspapers of
England, which were respected a generation
ago, now stand in much the same category
as those of Paris; they are eagerly read,
but are distrusted if not despised. The few
that continue to hold their heads high (the
Times since its escape from Harmsworth
control; the Manchester Guardian; Sun-
day papers like the Observer, and literary
and political weeklies like the Spectator)
belong to no cash-hungry trust. But it is
the multiple papers that wield the powers.
Their roaring stunts impress the semi-
educated, who, being in a vast majority, are
their chief concern; and the knowledge
that this is so impresses Party politicians.
They are able to influence foreign policies;
get bills brought before Parliament or
dropped; push their friends into soft jobs
and keep their enemies in obscurity; even
defy Governments and the Law when the
nation’s life is at stake —vide the case of
the Northcliffe papers during the World
War. The proprietors who are responsible
for such activities may be wise and un-
selfish in some cases. But, even when they
possess genius and patriotism, they remain
irresponsible. Money and effrontery elect
them to the control of thoir country’s
destinies, and nothing but death or bank-
ruptcy can unseat them.
The tragic feature of the business is its
inevitability. Modern democracies are
made to be tyrannised over by astute men
who are sometimes honest and altruistic, but,
as a rule, are neither. It is no hardship
on the rank and file of British Labor, for
example, that their party programme should
be advocated by only 1 per cent, of the
national press. The worker does about as
well or as badly under one Government as
under another. Similarly, if Australia pre-
sently gets newspaper government on
British lines, as seems likely, the visible
changes should not be great. Democracy
seems to have reached an intermediate
stage, culturally, where it simply has to
have its leg pulled by some variety of
adventurer or mountebank. A Tory boss
giving orders from a multiple newspaper
office is probably no more undesirable than
a Bolshevik one giving orders from a Trades
Hall. Both correspond to the sorcerers of
another age; and the only cure for them,
the only means by which the people can
win back their souls, is by fighting for the
clearer vision which comes of intensive edu-
cation.
THE LAW AND THE MOTOR-CAR.
The motor-car has been going stronger
and stronger in Australia, as elsewhere, for
over a quarter of a century, until now in the
big cities every fifth adult owns one. Also,
on an average, five cars are reported
stolen each day, and 40 persons are killed
or badly injured each week. The speed-
capacity of almost every type of car is in-
creasing, and inevitably with the increase in
cars there is an increase in the number of
incompetent and “flash” drivers—the latter
the greatest peril of all. Yet the laws govern-
ing the safety of pedestrians and other
travellers and the ownership of cars do not
differ much from those which existed when
motorists first stopped driving behind men
with red flags, and. the average citizen was
as likely to steal a tiger as a car.
Such changes in the law as the State Par-
liaments have made have been of a nig-
gling order suggesting a reluctance either to
strike or to wound. Recent examples were
the proposal for compulsory third-party in-
surance in Victoria’s new Motor-car Bill,
a scheme that had to be suspended as un-
workable in the U.S.A., and has merely had
the effect, wherever it has been tried, of
making reckless drivers more so. Another
clause in the same bill sought to fix a speed
maximum of 25 m.p.h. The absurdity of
fixing speed limits is that whereas 50 m.p.h.
may be safe in the case of a good car, well
handled on a straight, level and unfre-
quented road, 15 m.p.h. may be dangerous
in other circumstances. The accidents which
cause the damage happen usually to the
incompetents—often to beginners who have
not troubled to learn to drive and should
never have been granted licenses.
De Rivera, the Spanish dictator, has the
right idea. His penalty of as much as 12
years’ imprisonment for the killing of a
pedestrian may be extravagant, but it will
at any rate make the roads a great deal
safer for motorists as well as pedestrians.
The maximum fine for dangerous driving in
N. S. Wales is £2O. In other States it is
£5O, but either sum is likely to be a fleabite
to the owner of a high-powered car. A
recent typical newspaper report ran:—
“A ‘hit-run’ driver, travelling at a high
speed, who knocked over and injured a boy
on a push-bike, was fined £lO for dangerous
driving and £5 for failing to stop.”
Sometimes, of course, the full punishment
is inflicted: —
“Two occupants of a motor-car were killed
as the result of an accident to a motor-car
driven along City-road by Hamilton V.
McLerie. McLerie was fined £2O for driv-
ing the car while he was under the influence
of intoxicating liquor. His driver’s license
was suspended, and he was disqualified for
a further 12 months.”
Motorists will continue to take innocent
lives while under the influence of drink, or
while exhibiting their flashness, and they
will continue to discredit motoring and im-
peril the lives of reputable motorists till the
law confronts them with penalties which will
make them stop and think hard.
And the same as to car-thieves. Never since
the “kinchin lay” flourished has there been a
form of theft so simple. The impossibility
of defeating a skilled street-thief is so well
recognised that many owners no longer
worry about protection devices. The profits
made from stripping cars and abandoning
them are great. Yet the limit for this
offence in most of the States is round about
nine months.
A YANKEE HAS WRITTEN A BOOK.
A United States author, by name Denny,
has written a book in which he foretells
an Anglo-American war as one of the cer-
tainties of the future. He describes it as
no shindy over principles, but a grab for
the oil supplies of the world, and thus for
the globe’s industrial and commercial
supremacy. Before the Great War the U.S.,
he holds, was still a debtor nation, owing
1000 million pounds to people abroad. Now
it is estimated that people abroad owe the
U-S. 5000 million pounds. A change for
the better of 6000 million pounds in the
national balance-sheet is certainly a case
of making a profit out of war. It suggests
that there may be advantage in making war
again, and that there is the loose cash to
make it with.
The motive behind all the big new naval
programmes and the proposed armament
conventions is said to be expansion pure
and simple. There has been a great deal
of expansion in recent years, which may pos-
sibly be a reason for more. The big repub-
lic has a political and financial lien on all
the Spanish-American States, save perhaps
the strongest ones, which are also the most
remote. The securing of a vigorous hold
on all the Spanish-American States should
be only a matter of time. The U.S. has a
powerful financial pull in Canada, and
Canada is an annoying place which keeps
the two biggest sections of the republic
apart. The grievance against it is akin to
that which Britain once had against the
Boer States. And as the U.S. has a Monroe
doctrine against the establishment of new
European settlements in the two Americas,
the local Jingo asks what objection there
can be to a Monroe doctrine against the
continuance of old ones. It is mainly a
question of power to enforce the idea.
The new prophet admits that the capture
of the financial, commercial, industrial and
oil supremacy of the globe will cost the
U.S. a great deal of money, but is of opinion
that it will cost Britain its empire, to all
intents and purposes.
U.S. Jingo literature recalls Hun Jingo
literature previous to the Great War. The
Hun went into that adventure to
make his country the real World Power;
and he made the United States instead. It
would be grotesque if Uncle went into a
great adventure for a similar purpose and
also made someone else instead. And it
is not at all impossible. The only time
the Washington Government fought _ a
monumental scrap wholly on its own initi-
ative was in the great Civil Disturbance,
and it was far from being a well-managed
business. Abraham Lincoln was an honest
and patriotic blunderer, who in the early
days of the conflict assiduously read up the
campaigns of leaders, from Julius Caesar
onward, to fit himself for strategy. He
planned out some of the earlier battles, and
Bull Run, the first one of note, was lost
because the enemy didn’t follow the course
which was laid down for them. That
event might have meant the loss of the
Federal capital and possibly the collapse
of the war had the Confederate President
been a seizer of Opportunity by the fore-
lock, but he wasn’t. In the second melan-
choly year of the war the supply of North-
ern volunteers almost ran dry; compulsion
caused something which threatened to be
insurrection, and the President hinted to his
most dependable generals that he must
have a victory or two, else all was finished
—the coming elections would furnish a Con-
gress which would -agree to Secession and
almost anything else for the sake of peace.
Meade responded with Gettysburg, and next
day Grant captured Vicksburg,_ thereby
gaining command of the Mississippi and cut-
ting the Confederacy in halves.
In short, the stronger side just dodged
failure as the Hun just dodged success, and
both sets of circumstances go to show that
war on a grand scale is full of unexpected
chances. Maybe Uncle Sam will keep that
in mind and so make a liar of his latest
prophet.
KINGS IN KABUL.
My forecast of December 26, 1928, regard-
ing the abdication of the throne of Afghan-
istan by Amanullah, in favor of his elder
brother Inayatullah, has been verified by
the occurrence. To save himself from the
dagger of the assassin “the Chosen of
Allah” has disappeared—travelling from
Kabul to Kandahar by ’plane, according to
one report.
Before making his dramatic exit, Aman-
ullah offered many compromises. Early
in the trouble the demands of the Shinwari
tribesmen, backed by Inayatullah and the
myriads of mullahs, forced him to yield to
the appointment of a Senate of 50 members,
the majority being mullahs. He agreed to
rigidly observe the caste practices of the
Moslem faith, with strict purdah regulations
and a “back-to-Afghan” costume for all
women, including Queen Souriya, to the
total exclusion of European fashions. Com-
pulsory military service was withdrawn and
the sale of strong liquors forbidden. Child
marriage was to be continued, and the
teachings of the mullahs were not to be
interfered with. Having thus reduced his
status to that of puppet, it was inevitable
that he would soon have to quit the capital
in order to save his life. Kings must be
kings in Kabul. When they cease to be
real kings they become corpses.
But “the Chosen of Allah” has, it is
reported, gone only as far as Kandahar.
“Hope springs eternal,” and Amanullah
evidently imagines that a rally may yet be
made in his favor. For Inayatullah is a
bloated sloth, entirely in the hands of the
mullahs; and the Afghans hate a spineless
do-nothing. So at any moment we may
hear of the assassination of Inayatullah,
or of his abdication. Things move quickly
in those parts. Amanullah is only 39, and
came to the throne in 1919 in a dramatic
manner. His father, Habibullah, was struck
down by an unknown assassin at Jellalabad;
simultaneously Amanullah proclaimed
himself Amir of Afghanistan and clapped
his elder brother Inayatullah into prison.
The great mystery is why he was only
clapped into prison.
Now if Amanullah cannot win back his
power, his next move must be to quit not
only Afghanistan but Asia. Amongst true
Moslems vendetta is strong. He will not
be safe even in British India. Bj' breaking
the ordinances of the Koran he is outcast,
and his slayer will find Paradise.
Yet these same mullahs who now sit in
Senate are profligate, cunning and cruel
despots. They wax fat with the fees, pre-
sents and bribes they receive. They play
on the ignorant masses, particularly the
womenfolk. They “arrange” marriages with
children of tender years who have no say
in the matter. Parents are compelled to
pay heavy fees for these “matches,” often
putting themselves in lifelong debt through
borrowing from usurers. They direct pil-
grimages to Mecca and Medina, often
volunteering to undertake the pilgrimage
themselves on behalf of several of their fold
—for a goodly consideration. They cat and
drink, indulging in forbidden meats and
wines, and more often than not their
mistresses are many.
It is difficult for anyone who has not lived
and worked in those parts to realise the
undercurrent that saps at everything pro-
gressive. Afghanistan will not be modern-
ised while the mullah’s word is law. His
first idea is to keep woman ignorant of the
outside world, and to use her as a child-
bearing chattel. This much can be said of
Amanullah. Though he was only half-
civilised, he was progressive. He wanted his
country to advance. So he had in him
almost the first of Afghanistan’s glimmer-
ings of the larger patriotism.
H. D. PETTERS.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Delay of Justice.
“Handicapped by a shortage of Judges, the work
of the N.S.W. Supreme Court fell slightly in arrears
during 1928.” — Front the Prothonotary’s annual report.
It is all a matter of the point of view.
This year there are three times as many
remanets —or cases set down for trial dur-
ing the previous year and never reached—
as there were in 1928. That is, 199 as against
64. Officialdom has got used to delayed
justice—to the spectacle of scores, if not
hundreds, of cases being stood over for
month after month—and comments on the
scandal are rarely heard in the courts, and
practically never in Parliament. There was
an exception to this rule in Melbourne the
other day, when sympathy was expressed
for a woman who, committed on a theft
charge six months ago, was found to be
still awaiting trial at the end of the year.
But no public character ever troubles to
voice the grievances of the less spectacular
victims of a thoroughly rotten system.
Take the case of Brown, a struggling
storekeeper who has gone to law, or been
taken there. His case has been set down
for a given month, and he has arranged his
finances on the assumption that it will be
reached then. It is put back, and his credit
is at once affected; he has to raise more
money while remaining under the shadow of
financial suspicion which broods over every
citizen of slender means who is known to be
involved in a lawsuit. His solicitor has
probably briefed a rising junior—a sound
man, though not one of those leviathan
“silks” who have sufficient influence to get
their cases taken more or less to suit their
convenience. By the time Brown’s case is
reached his counsel is likely to be com-
mended to some other litigant. This is an
injustice both to the barrister and to
Brown; the former has to hand the matter
over to a colleague, and Brown, in defiance
of all his commercial instincts and training,
has to pay for a legal article which he did
not order and does not want.
The system, which is generations—not
to say centuries—out of date, is to blame.
There are not enough Judges; and the law
vacations, which were instituted in the leis-
urely era of stage coaches and sedan chairs,
are months too long. There is illumination
for those with the capacity to read the
signs of the times aright in a single phe-
nomenon —the huge proportion of cases on
most of the Judges’ lists which arise from
motor-car accidents. The cold truth is we
are trying to adapt a 10-m.p.h organisation
to a 40-m.p.h. age:
♦
“Made in Germany.”
Circulating in this country at present is
a trade journal published in Germany which
sets forth very cleverly and attractively the
advantages which are likely, to accrue to
importers in other countries from the
distribution of German-made goods. Especi-
ally in the section devoted to the engineer-
ing and small-hardware trades are alluring
baits held forth. It is in these departments
of trade more than in any others that the
term “Made in Germany” formerly became
a hallmark of ill-fame.
There are, of course, many reputable and
even world-famous German manufacturers.
But these are not the sort of people who
are touting in this fashion for the foreign
trade. The Teutonic manufacturer of the


STORMING A NEW CITADEL.
“The dispute concerning the supreme control of the Salvation Army continues. The parties to it are being advised at every step by eminent counsel. It is expected
that the final decision will be made by the Courts.”
baser sort has always had one very simple
recipe for endearing himself to not-too-
scrupulous importers in other countries. He
has obtained samples of machines or
articles of good repute made by British or
American firms, and has produced colorable
imitations which could be sold almost any-
where at about a third the price of the real
Mackay. The manufacture of spare parts
for British and American machinery has
been another profitable business—for the
Germans engaged in it, but not so profitable
to the users of the imitations.
Prices, of course, are very tempting—a
motor delivery-van for £B2 10s.;
an outboard launch-motor complete for
£10; an ornate loud-speaker for 305.! How
irresistible is the charm of the German
manufacturer in metals, even in the face of
the discouragements which the Australian
tariff offers, is illustrated by the following
excerpts from the Trade Statistics which
show the progress made by certain lines of
German imports in four years:—
1922-23. 1926-27.
Iron and steel bars, rods, plates,
etc £1,300 £55,000
Cutlery and plated ware.. .. 10,000 100,000
Electrical machinery and
apparatus .. .. .. 12,000 105.000
Tools (hand) of trade .. .. 8,000 116,000
The most effective thing that can be done
about it is to abstain from buying imported
hardware of any sort that hasn’t got a good
name on it.
The Luck of R. W. Read.
“D.P.”: An article (“In No Man’s Land,”
B. 9/1/’29) dealt with the case of R. W.
Read, who, brought before the New Guinea
Central Court at Rabaul, was acquitted of
piracy, under sec. 80 of the Q. Criminal
Code, the Court finding that New Guinea
was not a British possession, that the Nama-
nullah—the ship concerned—was not a
British ship, and that Read was not a
British subject. The decision, if correctly
reported, was quite wrong.
All nations have the right to seize a
pirate, bring him to trial, and punish him
through the courts of their own country
irrespective of his nationality. This phase
of the “jurisdiction of a State in places not
within the territory of any State” was
apparently ignored in the Read case.
As regards the status of New Guinea, it
is in the “C” class of mandates, and the
mandatory is “His Britannic Majesty”—the
mandate was issued to Australia on behalf
of his Majesty (New Guinea Act of 1920).
Rex versus Christian (1925), in South-
West Africa, led to at least one point in
favor of the mandatory; it decided that the
King was sovereign in South-West Africa
to the extent that treason might not be
committed against him. And then there
was the Lotus case, which conferred on the
Court the right to take criminal proceedings
against a foreigner in respect even of offen-
ces committed outside territorial waters.
In view of it the Rabaul Court had no
need to refer to section 80 of the Queensland
Criminal Code at all.
♦ .
Trams or Motor-’buses?
“M.T.8.”: There is a pretty common idea
that motor-’buses are pushing trams off the
face of the earth; and it is not true —does
not even begin to be true. On the con-
trary, reports published recently of such
large undertakings as those of Glasgow,
Manchester, Liverpool, Birmingham and
Berlin record extensions during the year.
Manchester, for example, is engaged on a
big re-routing scheme with the object of
running the trams through the centre of the
city on direct lines from east to west and
north to south, and Glasgow has just given
its vast housing scheme in the south direct
access to the centre of the city by means
of trams.
A few small towns —Lincoln may be cited
—are putting in trolly ’buseS as an alter-
native to the heavy capital cost involved in
the reconstruction of the track and the pro-
vision of modern equipment; but outside
such cases, none of which in point of popu-
lation equal a smaller Sydney suburb, I
know of no city with a population of more
than 100,000 which is rejecting trams. And
that for the very good reason that so far
no vehicle yet invented can compete with
the modern tramcar in mass transportation.
That is not a general statement. It is the
deliberately-expressed opinion, formed after
years of experience of transport in all its
forms, of such world-wide authorities as
Lord Asiifield, the chairman of the Under-
ground Group of London, and of the presi-
dent of the Electric Railways of the United
States.
An equally cogent reason is that no city
could face the huge loss which would be
involved in scrapping the trams. Apart
from the effect on the general finances of
a city by the carrying of a heavy capital
debt yielding no return, there would be a
further large burden in the shape of in-
creased charges for electricity to the general
consumer, and a serious annual bill for
maintaining that portion of the street now
attended to by the tramways.
Every day in the year the Melbourne
trams perform the feat of transporting 600,000
passengers safely, cheaply and quickly.
“Safely” should be emphasised. In Vic-
toria, out of the 5516 street accidents re-
corded in the last year for which figures
have been finalised, only 70, or 1.27 per
cent., were set down by the police as due
to negligence by tramway men. In 3576
cases, or 65 per cent., negligence or drink,
or both, were given as the predominating
cause, and 40 per cent, of the accidents
were caused by drunken and negligent
motorists. In none of the 70 accidents in
which trams were concerned was drink a
factor.
♦
A Plea for Wood.
Stacked in and around the sawmills of
Australia are at least 400,000.000 super, feet
of building material for which there is
practically no sale because, the sawmillers
say, it has cost so much money to make and
stack that they cannot sell it in competition
with building scantlings entering Australia
in unceasing quantities from overseas.
Further, architects are more and more dis-
posed to exclude wood from buildings on
the ground of expense for upkeep and
repair.
But have we not reached a position where
other considerations should weigh with
us? If this immense stock were moving
in a normal stream from mills to cottages,
mansions and public buildings it would go
a long way to shift the depression long
associated with the sawmilling industry.
First, there is need for standardisation.
When a large order is sent to a sawmiller
for mixed material, it cannot all be obtained
from stocks in the yards. Unusual sizes and
lengths are asked for. It would never pay
to put men on to go through the thousand
pieces in a stack and pick out just what was
ordered. It is cheaper to cut—and waste.
That is largely because there is no standardi-
sation in the output of Australian saw-
mills or in the building specifications, no
disposition of the architect or contractor
to work to common dimensions.
Most material of all to the detriment
of the sawmiller is the habit among munici-
palities of declaring “brick areas” to the
total exclusion of the wooden or “frame”
house. Wooden buildings ought to be
excluded from closely-packed areas; but
there is no justification for excluding them
elsewhere. They cost much less to build;
and if their upkeep is heavy, the man of
small means who lives in one of them can
easily do most of the work of maintenance
himself. They can be made to give as
much comfort as a building of any other
material; and, though they can be made
as ugly as brick or stone, they can be
made as beautiful as either.
In America the timber building has
proved thad it can withstand the tornado
and cyclone even better than brick or
stone, if wisdom is used in the plan and
honesty in the work. In the recent Florida
cyclone the well-braced wooden cottage and
hotel sheltered their inhabitants better than
any other type of building, so much so' that
there is a decided swing over to it in popular
fancy.
♦
To Make Our Own Films.
The Federal Government is meditating
quota legislation for the assistance of the
Australian film. If the framers of the Act
follow the Victorian example they will only
be wasting their time.
The Vic. quota has been running now for
a couple of years, and the amount of
assistance it has given to the local industry
is almost negligible. It provides for the
exhibition in every programme of at least
2000 feet of Empire film, 1000 feet of it
Australian. No provision was made as to
where, when and how the Empire film was
to be shown. The result has been that
theatres which had already been fully
booked up with imported Hollywood simply
run off their 1000 feet either when their
patrons are scrambling for their seats or
when they are making for the door. Some
crank the Australian stuff off at twice the
rate at which Adolphe Menjou and Betty
Balfour are unwound.
And, in fairness to the producers, most
of the Australian pictures supplied because
of the quota deserve the summary treat-
ment they receive. They are mainly so-
called “scenics” provided by propaganda
agencies. The average movie fan accepts
them with bored resignation.
Numerous companies shot up when the
quota started, and a few pictures were made.
One ambitious attempt ran to emp.ty
houses at a metropolitan theatre specially
hired for the purpose, and was never shown
anywhere else. Its promoters lost their
cash. The picture was a frightful effort,
which is not surprising, considering that the
man who made it had never handled a pic-
ture in his life before. But even if the story
had been reasonably good it could never
have been a commercial success, seeing
that none of the other States have quotas,
and the Victorian circuit alone would barely
pay expenses.
The most direct way to put the Australian
film on its feet is to make the American
film pay the cost of the process. A quota
system for the Commonwealth should go
hand in hand with a tax on the imported
stuff. Out of the funds thus obtained
annual prizes for the best Australian films
and bonuses to assist production could be
paid. At present nothing results but a
sad waste of time and effort.
♦
The Devil You Know.
As a result of the disaffection of native
police recruits, some 200 white residents of
Rabaul and district held a meeting and
called on the Federal Government to sack
the Native Constabulary and replace them
with “Sikh or other trained Eastern police.”
Curious how people rush from the devil
they know to the devil they don’t. The
Native Constabulary of New Guinea have
done good service for their white masters,
German and British. The Sikh, though a
good fellow and a better soldier in the
main, has drifted a long way from the man
who stood true to his salt in the days of
the Indian Mutiny. As a policeman in
Malaya and other parts of the world he has
not proved an unqualified success, and as a
citizen after retirement he is apt to develop
info a usurer of a particularly flinty-hearted
brand. East African colonies which once
employed the Sikh as a John Hop have
replaced him as soon as possible with
native levies; but they have found that
though the job has gone the man remains,
and mostly they wish he didn’t.
♦
The new “civic centre” at Canberra has
been tried and is definitely seen to be a
pale pink elephant with Moorish arches.
Most of the shopping is done at Eastlake,
which was where the first shops were put
up, not in accordance with a plan, but in
response to a need. There are four cafes
at the “civic centre” where at times you
may see as many as six people dining, while
the proprietors play the pianola to keep
their spirits up. The cost of spreading a
city of 6000 over an area large enough to
carry 100,000 is reflected in the wages. It
costs one grocery store £5O to £6O a week
to deliver to the scattered suburbs. These
charges are all passed on, of course, but
nobody cares. The slogan at Canberra is,
Australia Pays.
*
“Blanda”: The war operated to improve
the status of the'half-caste in the Empire.
The Eurasians of India, Singapore, Hong
Kong and elsewhere enlisted in large num-
bers, and there is nothing in the records to
show that they did worse than the full-
bloods. Having helped to make the world
safe for Democracy, they are now demand-
ing the same treatment as the whites—
and, what is more upsetting, the same
wages. Whatever its biological validity—
and experts differ on the subject—it is hard
to perceive any ethical flaw in their claim.


■
K
&
9
m
§
m
1
Sss#
MZ
1
■
1
l
n
ft
i
#
5^
w
sssss
e
THEWffIrBAUNCED
MOTOR SPIRIT>
S7£3
POLITICAL
POINTS
The U.S. Senate, which broke Woodrow
Wilson’s heart by heaving out the Treaty
of Versailles, has ratified the Kellogg Pact
by 85 votes to 1. During the debate there
was some fierce twisting of the Lion’s tail,
but at division-time all the twisters joined
the ayes except John Blaine, of Wisconsin
—presumably a son of the Blaine who would
have been President but for the “Rum,
Romanism and Rebellion” business. Kellogg
and Coolidge will go into retirement together,
and the world will give both credit for an
honest attempt to provide a safeguard against
war.
The Australian Loan Council ceased some
little time ago to be a loose voluntary organ-
isation, whose members borrowed and went
as they pleased, and became the Organised
and United Cadge of this great country.
After its first meeting it got to work, and
let no grass grow under its feet. Before any
report of its proceedings was even published
news arrived that another £8,000,000 loan
had been deposited on the London market,
where, of course, the money will stay and
do the usual good service in paying interest
on old debts.
The N.S.W. Railway Commissioners, who
object to a city railway station being planted
Dr. Bradfield.
at Circular Quay, as
proposed by J. J.
C. Bradfield, the
Harbor Bridge en-
gineer, and suggest
a Harrington-street
station as cheaper
and more con-
v e n i e n t, have
raised up a cham-
pion in Ashton,
M.L.C., who was a
Minister under
Carruthers long
ago, and has claims
to be considered an
Elder Statesman
these days. Rush-
ing into the lists
with his fountain-
pen pointed at the
little engineer,
Ashton declared
that N. S. Wales
could not afford to
stud Sydney with “Bradfield memorials”—
that the bridge would cost at least a million
more than it should owing to Bradfield's
demand for pylons, weakly conceded, and that
there would be a waste of half a million or
more if the Quay scheme were accepted.
Ex-Minister Arthur Griffith, who is a sort of
Disinherited Knight, sprang to the defence
pf Bradfield, and other people are joining
in briskly, it being no private fight.
If Melbourne gets the six new bridges
over the Yarra which the McPherson
Government proposes to build, it will have
to thank the motorists for them. The esti-
mated cost of the half-dozen is £2,000,090,
and the McPhersons propose to pay the in-
terest bill out of increased motor registration
fees. The scheme may work out all right if
the Railway Commissioners, the City Council
and the taxationeers don’t drive petrol
vehicles off the roads.
The Sydney Uni. is still shouting to the
world that it hasn’t got much confidence in
its teachers. Recently when it wanted
an associate professor of geography at £9OO
a year, it certainly advertised in Sydney
papers; but the applications are to be for-
warded, not to the Registrar, but to the
Agent-General in London.
Vic. employers regard W. J. Duggan, pre-
sident of the A.C.T.U., as one of the braini-
est of the union leaders with whom they
W. J. Duggan.
have to argue, and
Bruce’s Big Four
formed an equally
high opinion of him.
But Duggan doesn’t
consider it necessary
to behave like an ill-
conditioned lout in his
dealings with wage-
payers or to vamp up
any enthusiasm for the
Red fools who go from
Australia to inflame
Chinese and Hindu
coolies against “Brit-
ish [and Australian]
imperialism”; so Dug-
ga n is suspected.
Hysterical women de-
nounced him as a
traitor for speaking
courteously of the Big
Four at a Melbourne
Town Hall meeting
last week, and when
he defended the
Peace-in-Industry Con-
ference there were
shrieks of rage. Unless decent unionists,
who are in the majority, overcome their fatal
inertia, another good man will be lost to
“the movement”—crucified by the mob.
Queensland Premier McCormack’s refusal
to bless any proposal for unification of rail-
way gauges that goes further than a linking
of the State capitals is typical of the change
that has come over him since he had a trip
to Britain and learned the truth about the
financial situation. “The jazz is over!” said
McCormack, in announcing that financial
and legislative experiments were off, and he
is now cannier than Victoria’s McPhairson.
He has even shut down on vote-catching
railways inside his State.
A most unpleasant episode befell lately at
Sydney Trades Hall when, in the course of
an argument about communism or something
of the sort, an old unionist had one eye
kicked out and sustained other injuries. The
disputants were heard to address each other
as “comrade.” Every Australian city would
be a pleasanter place to live in if it were
not for “comrades. 1 '
Something was wrong with the calcula-
tions of Jock Garden’s firm of Goryflag and
Co. re the shipping position. The tale was
that the Commonwealth Steamship Line,
which was capable of carrying 2 per cent,
of Australia’s oversea trade at a loss of
£500,000 per annum, was the one beneficent
influence which stood between us and ruin
at the paws of the “combine.” Therefore
when the line was sold by conspirators here
to the dukes and billionaires of Britain all
was up, and a threatened increase of freights
was held to prove this. The Red Flaggers
even knew where the body was hidden, and
pointed out the bloodstain. Now it appears
that the extra charges were to be on some
classes of goods coming here, probably articles
which we don’t manufacture much, and that
freights on wheat and flour going from here
are to be substantially reduced. Wheat
jumped Id. a bushel at the news, and as it
had been down at 4s. 6id., the little brown
coin was welcome.
Too solitary to vindicate State enterprise as
a general principle, nevertheless in itself an
example that jhines, the Speck’s Hydro-
Electric Department, after meeting working
expenses, depreciation and interest last year,
returned a surplus of £15,000. Though the
Speck is only 200 miles by 150, and a
quarter of it is uninhabited, there are
already 778 miles of high-voltage overland
transmission routes, to say nothing of
divisional and district reticulations.
“Comrade” Ryan, who goes about the world
getting photographed with Bolsheviks and
the like, has returned from a flying visit to
India, where he attended a trade-union con-
ference. He reports that that land of
1,800,000 square miles, with 30 languages
and many religions, is seething with discon-
tent; but probably it was only Ryan and
his fellow-conferencers who seethed. The life
of the professional hater and hereditary
false prophet is a dismal-looking one. He
gets nowhere while he is alive, and he gener-
ally has a belief that he will go nowhere
when he is dead.
The British textile workers have joined
with the manufacturers in demanding Pro-
tection for the woollen industry, a change of
front which fills theorists like Snowden with
boiling rage. Snowden fears a breakage of
the Labor party on the fiscal issue; be has
written too much of the old fiscal tripe in
his comfortable home, Eden Lodge, Tilford,
Surrey, to be very adaptable. But the
people at the looms know that imports of
woollens and worsteds were 10 million square
yards in 1920, 29 millions in 1927 and 33
millions for the first nine months of 1928,
and that 50 mills have shut down inside a
year. So they are almost ready to damn
the “incontrovertible truths of Freetrade,” so
dear to Sydney University professors.
Though S. Australia, the State with no
coal of its own, hasn’t yet entered into defi-
nite contracts for the supply of foreign fuel
for its railways, a procession of cargoes is
afloat. N.S.W. Premier Bavin still appeals
in a hoarse fragment of a voice (he appealed
again the other day), but unlike Sisyphus
he doesn’t even get his brick started from
the bottom of the hill. His idea is that the
miners and the owners both do with Is.
per ton less, and the State pays a bounty
of 2s. per ton and the Commonwealth Is.
per ton, and when the export price is thus
reduced by ss. per ton, a lot of lost business
may be recovered. The miners refuse flatly,
however, and if the “bob” is a religion they
may be right to say they will starve first.
The Commissioners who manage the affairs
of Sydney have discovered that it is cheap
and easy to bury the city garbage in the sea,
provided it isn’t taken very far out (in
which case it wouldn’t be so cheap), and
that the process gets rid 6f it effectively
except that so much of it washes back and
becomes an abomination on the beaches. It
is , reckoned that dropping the stuff over-
board fairly close inshore costs Is. 9d. per
ton, and that burning, which is the cleanest
method of all, runs to 9s. lOd. per ton,
which spems absurdly high. On present
quantities it would cost about £40,000 a
year to burn all the debris of Sydney (not
Greater Sydney)'. The lot could be thrown
overboard and washed up again for about
£7OOO, and it could be left in the owner’s
garden or yard for almost nothing.
Major-Gen. Bruche, adjutant-general of
the C.M-F., isi about to be transferred to
Australia House, London, for two years.
Though never exactly popular, he is brainy
and active, but
brainy and active
soldiers are not
wanted in Australia
nowadays, Com-
mouwealth Minis-
ters being too in-
tent on finding dirt
jobs for the unem-
ployed to bother
about the Army.
Meanwhile the re-
signation of Wing-
Com mander Mc-
Bain from the
R.A.A.F. brings
the total gift of
air officers to civil
enterprise in the
last two years to
11 highly-experien-
ced men. Air-Mar-
shal S a 1 m o n d
pointed out that
the drift consti-
tuted a severe
drain on the small
Major-Gen. Bruche.
personnel, but nothing has been done to make
the service more attractive to the most valu-
able members) of it.
The news that the British Shipping Con-
ference proposed to increase freights on sun-
dry manufactured goods coming to Australia,
while reducing them on Australian wheat
and flour leaving here, has produced a stag-
gering result. > Prime Mystery Bruce opposed
the increase “in the strongest terms” because
“preserving cheap sea transport to Australia
is a matter of vital importance to tne Com-
monwealth” ; and the old rates are to be
charged pending reference to a Royal Com-
mission or something. Increased freights on
imports might help our industries a little;
but perhaps the . Government doesn’t want
that. And every reduction of imports would
ease that adverse balance of trade by reason
of which the Government wears out its boots
on the road to London in search of big new
leans. But perhaps it likes the road to
London. It should know every bush on it
by now.
Strong bodies of police are kept .busy at
Port Adelaide frustrating efforts to “chuck
the ‘scabs’ off the wharves,” as the mob calls
it. There can be no surrender to mob
violence, but the position of the many decent
unionist wharfies who are taking no part
in these outbreaks deserves to be considered
at Port Adelaide and elsewhere. These men
were, in many cases, reluctant victims of
the imbecile leadership which, as an A.W.U.
president has said with uncommon candor,
has wrecked the Waterside Workers’ Fed-
eration. They were called out, and they
came out; had they kept on working they
would have lost all their friends in the
branch and been savagely persecuted by “the
executive,” they and their families. Em-
ployers of waterside labor should not deprive
the poor devils of their living for doing what,
placed in the same situation, they would
have done themselves.
Americans operating in Westralian waters
have offered a fixed price of £l7O per ton for
pearl-shell, and £l5O for Torres Strait shell,
which is not so clean, as a rule. There is
talk of a pool, though the politicians will
be kept out of it if possible. Pearling
comes expensive nowadays. A new lugger
turned out at the Thursday Island yards
costs £l2OO bare of motor-pump, air-com-
pressor and diving gear ; then come provision-
ing for a three-months’ cruise, signing on of
a dozen natives and four Jap divers, equip-
ment of diving dresses, anchors, chains and
a hundred other items. Westralia, which
publishes fairly complete returns, reports
that £186,000 worth of shell and pearls went
overseas last financial year, as against
£255,000 worth in ’26-’27 and £337,000
worth in ’23-’24. So there seems a call to
do something.
Tons of money are to be spent in and
about Perth this centenary year. The Collier
Government, in addition to starting opera-
tions on a huge re-
servoir, proposes to
lay out between three
and four millions on
extending the sewer-
age works and pump-
ing the sewage into
the sea. This is a
tardy admission that
it was a costly mis-
take to treat the sew-
age in East Perth and
discharge the effluent
into the Swan, as
many people have con-
tended all along. And
the .City Council is
putting £360,000 into
roads and footpaths
and improvements to
the municipal endow-
ment land, which
fronts the Indian
Ocean. The West-
ralian capital has a
noble asset in this en-
dowment land, to
which neighboring pro-
perty has been added
W. E. Bold.
by purchase, and Town-clerk Bold, who has
watched Perth mayors come and go for nearly
29 years, aspires to see it a great and abid-
ing source of revenue before he hands over
his job to a younger man.
Randolph Bedford writes :
Re “Federal Aid for Gerrymander” (B. 19/12/’2B)
you say: “Friends attribute Dr. Nott’s defeat to the
State Government’s zeal for sending roadworkers,
all Labor-unionists, into his electorate, to continue
man’s conquests over nature; and they may be
right.” Well, these “friends” lie. The number of
men employed in the Herbert Federal electorate on
main roads work at Ist July, 1928, was 330; at
Ist December it was 195, or 135 less at the time of
the election, due to slackening in local road construe
tion. Dr. Nott’s alleged “friends” must find some
other explanation of his defeat.
Still, the “friends” are entitled to point out
(1) that Herbert got far more than the
average per Federal electorate of main-roads
toilers, (2) that the whole 330 registered
on July 1 could have voted as Herbert elec-
tors on Nov. 17 (that was the date, not
Dec. 1), and (3) that even the reduced
number triumphantly quoted by Bedford,
M.L.A., exceeded his man’s majority.
A Dane named Hansen has told the S. M.
Herald that he came to Australia to find
out whether it was good enough for emigrat-
ing Danes; and he doesn’t think it is. He
found two of his countrymen who had gone
on to the fringe of the Mallee, and got no-
thing in two years and only nine bushels the
third. There are very few places in Aus-
tralia where a decent farmer would wholly
miss a crop two years running; and nine
bushels might be a mighty good harvest.
Comparison of bushels-per-acre yields is
nearly always ridiculous and often dis-
honest. Whether a nine-bushel harvest is
very good or a disastrous one depends upon
(1) the rent of the land, (2) whether
the seed was just' scratched in or the land
was cultivated, and (3) the cost of harvest-
ing. Generally speaking, there is no other
country in the whole world where harvesting
is so cheap as in Australia.
SOOLING ’EM ON.
[FOR THE BULLETN.]
“Mr. Hughes said the Labor party would be much
stronger in. the new Federal Parliament than in the
last one, and should they decide to attack the
Government when the House met there was plenty
oi ammunition lying about the battlefield.”
And you wouldn’t see them stuck, William,
if the stuff escaped their view,
For a pocketful of cartridges or a jamtin
bomb or two.
Though the furrow you plough is a lone one
now, and yourself an Ishmael—what?
You’d be sorry to see them crippled, William,
for lack of powder and shot.
’Tis many a year agone, William, since you
bade them tart adieus
And shook the dust of the caucus-room with
flashing scorn from your shoes;
You left them with withering words, Wil-
liam, but the other crowd left you,
And placed as you are to-flay, William, what
the deuce is a man to do?
One party you split in twain, William, your
way to power to smooth;
The other elbowed you out of your job like
the Salvos elbowed Booth.
They hustled you off the throne. William,
and stuck you up pn the shelf;
And which of the two you most eschew is
only known to yourself.
But which you can harm the more, William
—there’s no such puzzle there.
For as long as a chap’s in Parliament he’s
got to sit somewhere.
Stan Bruce may parry a blow for his face
or his solar plex. designed,
But ’tis hard to dodge with easy grace a
vicious kick from behind.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“P.X.”: What would have happened if a
Grand Council of the Salv’army had ever,
waited on William I. and invited him to
resign? My last sight of the old warrior—
in a street of East Melbourne —gives me an
idea. The General, who grew more and
more like a Hebrew prophet the older he
got, was on his famous visit to Australia,
and had been taken to lodgings nea,r the
Archbishop’s pleasant home. It was in the
days of the waggonette cab, and Booth and
his luggage had been carried behind one
staggering horse. I suppose “kebbie” was
stupid—they all seemed to be. Anyhow, the
General couldn’t make a satisfactory count
of his belongings, and the Jehu couldn’t
help him, and his staff, seeing that the
HIS LAST GOOD DEED.
ESTHER: "Did you hear Horace’s dad has gone? Such an old darling—everybody
spoke well of him.”
BETTY: “That’s true. Still, Horace’s pal Billy says he left much to be desired.”
old man was in a bad temper, kept a great
distance off. Finally the General’s dam
broke; he tossed his beard and he shook his
fist, and no Old Testament curser ever did
the thing more magnificently. How William
ever begat Bramwell I don’t know.
4c sH ❖
“Avril”: Emily, aged nine and the hope-
less outsider at a small Melbourne suburban
school, arrived on Monday morning in a
state of dilapidation unusual even for her.
The teacher felt called upon to make some
caustic remarks on the girl’s neglect of her
personal appearance. Emily listened coldly.
“Per’aps,” she said at last, “if your father
an’ mother ’ad been drunk an’ took-up over
the week-end y’ mightn’t be too tidy y’self!”
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Port Adelaide police court
has been discussing the exact meaning of a
“king hit.” A witness called it just a cowardly
blow; the P.M, thought it was one .on the
point of the chin ; but a police inspector set
them both straight, defining it as “getting
the first one in, to knock the other chap
senseless before he is in a position to de-
fend himself. Round on the jaw is the
best spot.” “Or in the pit of the stomach,”
supplemented a lawyer who doesn’t depend
on textbooks for all his knowledge.
# * * *
“Quiz”; Apropos the wonders of wireless,
have they been manifest anywhere in the
world as remarkably as at Tristan d’Acunha?
Up till recently the only music that the
islanders had ever heard was that produced
by an ailing fiddle and a bronchial accor-
dion. Now, per medium of a radio receiver,
the loneliest inhabited speck in the seven
seas can listen to grand opera and the
masterpieces of the greatest composers as
well as the latest thing in jazz.
* * * *
“Let Go” : Fantan joints are raided regu-
larly in North Queensland, and the cosmo-
politan players are handcuffed in pairs and
taken to the peter. The runner of the joint
and liis offsider are generally asked to find
£5O bail; their patrons are let out on £3,
and mostly forfeit rather than appear. One
of the players, recently landed, told me
gloomily: “I didn’t mind forkin’ up the
three quid, but what hurt was me sheila
secin’ me marched through the street hand-
cuffed to a cross-eyed Malay.”
* * * *
“Wraith”: There are few places where
alcohol of sorts can’t be manufactured by
anyone with an elementary knowledge of
distilling. In the Kawiaki Gulf (M.L.)
are two islands, Pakatoa and Roto Roa.
run by the Salvation Army as iuebriates’
homes for women and men respectively.
About 1911 most of the men on, Roto
Roa were noticed to be exhibiting symp-
toms of drunkenness. It took the authori-
ties some time to find out the cause, but at
last they located in it the kitchen garden.
Here, among other vegetables, quantities of
parsnips were grown, and an enterprising
gardener had managed to compound a drink
therefrom that might have made Job forget
his troubles.
He * * *
“Windsor”: One of those mutilated tele-
grams nearly cost a man his life in
Melbourne the other day. A suburban
housewife sent word to her husband, working
in the country, that their -two children had
gone into hospital. She worded the wire
rather clumsily: “Will and Mary gone to
hospital to-day. Both in same.” The hus-
band, had been expecting the news, but he
was quite unprepared for the amendment of
the telegraphist, who made the last three
words, “Both insane.” Coming up to Mel-
bourne by the first train, he made straight
for the hospital and was knocked down by
a motor-car just before he reached it. His
skull was fractured. The postal people
point ont that the victim has no legal claim
for compensation against them, but
guardedly suggest that an application for
payment of medical expenses might receive
favorable consideration.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: South Australia will have a
centenary in 1936, and Premier Butler sug-
gested casually the other day, in connection
with the celebrations, a statue to John Hind-
marsh, first Governor, who “proclaimed” the
province on the beach at what is now
Glenelg. Grenfell Price.. Master _of St.
Mark’s College and chief local historian,
objects that Hindmarsh, though he may have
been an excellent captain in the R.N., showed
“neither ability nor success” in his adminis-
trative work in this part of the world. In
fact, he fell so far short of expectation
that at the end of 18 months he was recalled
after having quarrelled with nearly all of
his officers, while the colony had made so
little progress that it was face to face with
ruin. Price’s idea is a memorial to E. G.
Wakefield, with room for mention of Gouger,
Torrens, Angas, Light and other real
founders.
* * * *
“Morimoto”: The Japs as well as the
Fijians were once addicted to burying live
persons under buildings (B. 16/l/’29), but
in the former case the idea was that it
would strengthen the foundations. Two
years ago workmen engaged in restoring the
300-year-old walls of the Imperial Palace
found under the base of a watch-tower a
number of human skeletons. They had been
buried upright, arms above their heads, palms
outwards, like living caryatides. It was quite
evident that they had voluntarily offered
themselves. The whole press of Nippon
hailed this as a proof of the antiquity of
the spirit of bushido, and a patriotic ratepayer
of Osaka was so moved that he wrote to a
local journal suggesting that his living body
should be built into a breakwater then in
course of construction, to ensure it coming
up to specifications.
* * * *
“Hamer”: A suicide as considerate and
thoughtful about small details as any of
those mentioned in recent paragraphs turned
THE TIN-OPENER CHEF.
OLD MRS. JOBKINS: “Mrs. de Tomkins’s dinner was a great success, I'm told.”
YOUNG MRS. DOBSON: “Yes, she’s a wonderful cook—I don’t know how she manages,
do you?”
OLD MRS. JOBKINS: “No, dear, I don’t. She must have had to open quite thirty tins,
I suppose?”
up in Sydney only last week. She wrote a
letter to her husband explaining why she was
tired of life and concluded: —
P.S. —Dick, do not use the clothes in the dining-
room—the sox, sheets or shirts —as they are not dry
yet. You will find a clean nightdress in the top
drawer. There is a lay-by for flannel at Anthony
Horderns’ in the box in the dressing-table.
Having thus rounded off her duties as a good
housewife she took the plunge.
# # * *
“Chevroford” : The luckiest motoring escape
on record fell to the lot of a Melbourne
party which was racing a bush-fire along
the narrow track between Orbost and Eden
on the Prince’s Highway. A blazing tree
fell across the car, smashing the engine and
demolishing the wheel while it was in the
driver’s hands. The occupants escaped with
a few cuts.
* * * #
“Bouragi’’: Sydney has just been the scene
of a happening amazing to naturalists, if to
no one else. The collector of a number of
birds of paradise for an American zoo
housed his treasures in Balmain
while awaiting the steamer for
America. One of the birds, the
rarest and most valued of the
lot, escaped. Frantic search in
every direction revealed no trace
of it; 48 hours later it was
fourld outside the aviary, at-
tempting to join its mates. In
a wild state these birds live in
the heart of the tropical jungle
and on the tops of the highest
trees. This particular variety
never comes below 6000 ft. or so
above sea-level, while all are
special feeders. How the un-
sophisticated fowl managed to
keep well and hearty in Bal-
main, which is not in the least
like a tropical jungle, is no less
a mystery than how his magnificent coloring
escaped the eye of the small boy now hot on
the trail of the “locust” in every park.
* * * *
“T.F.M.”: Will anything ever kill these
fictions about the ancient tub Success as
long as the craft which has given Australia
such a bad advertisement remains in being?
The Melbourne Herald (15/l/’29) prints
a picture of the vessel. Above it one reads
“To return to Botany Bay after 140 years,”
and below: “The convict ship Success, which
will make her last trip to Botany Bay, there
to find her last resting-place as an historic
relic. She made her first trip to Sydney
with convicts 140 years ago.” Actually the
Success wasn't built until 1840 and made
her first appearance in these waters in 1852,
when, after discharging a general cargo . at
Geelong, she was bought by the Victorian
Government for use as a prison hulk in
Hobson’s Bay. If she is really going to
have a last resting-place anywhere, it should
be there.
* * * *
“Shep” : Quite a heavy bill of costs must
have come to the A.I.F. heads from the
Gyppo Telegraph Department for unofficial
wires sent by Diggers during the war years.
At Suez I had a bundle of telegrams to send
from the post office near the wharves, some
official and others private ones from the
mob on board the ship. Proceedings at the
counter were interrupted when two slightly
sozzled Diggers strolled in with wires and
demanded that the undersized Gyppo be-
hind the counter send them free of charge.
The clerk without comment stamped them
as being “On Military Service.” As I
couldn’t help noticing that one wire was
to another Digger putting the acid on him
for a loan, I asked the Gyppo how he
picked out which messages were for the
Military Department and which were private.
In broken English he informed me. that if
Australians offered to pay for their wires
they were private, but if they flatly refused
to do so then the wires were certainly “On
Military Service.” I profited by the tip.
“Mick Marr”: There are State schools
around Paddington and the ’Loo (Sydney)
where dozens of the older boys are “on the
milkcart” (B. 16/l/’29). I know one ten-
year-old who dispenses milk from four till
eight each morning, and carries an ice-
cream tray at a local picture-show in the
evening. The poor kid holds his own well
in examinations, but his sunken eyes tell
their tale.
« * * #
“Ex-Englishman” : I don’t remember King
George bringing a lawsuit (B. 26/12/’2B) to
dispose of “the lying report that he was a
heavy drinker.” But he had to bring one
to kill a maliciously persistent rumor
that, as a young sailor on the Mediterranean,
station, he had got married before the death
of his elder brother made him heir to the
throne. The action was brought against a
journalist who had repeated the canard in
print, and, under the highest legal advice, the
libelled one did not appear in person, but
made a deposition “on his honor” that there
had been no such marriage. The traducer
was sentenced to a term of imprisonment.
* H= * *
“R.H.”: The R.C. authorities in Mel-
bourne are about to launch an appeal for
funds for the spires needed to complete St.
Patrick’s Cathedral. Dr. Mannix, who will
be 65 in March, wants to see the spires built
during his lifetime; he is the third arch-
bishop to assist in the erection of the
massive and graceful edifice. The first
building on the site, granted by the Govern-
i*ment to the Catholic body in 1849, was begun
in 1850 and finished in 1858, and was with-
out tower or spires. Such were the changes
in outlook made by the gold-rushes that even
before this “old” church was completed plans
for a cathedral were in architect Wardell’s
hands, and the same year the rebuilding was
beginning. Nothing is wanted now except
the spires, and these will cost £150,000. The
estimated cost of the original “Church of St.
Patrick” was £6OOO.
* * * *
“Lex”: Our papers often publish cables
like this from London:—
The Bar Council has upheld a barrister who at a
murder trial exhorted the jury to remember that a
human life depended on the verdict, which might be
irrevocable. The Court had deprecated the words.
In such cases the barrister appeals to the
Council from a Judge. J. P. Valetta
appealed some months ago from the Lord
Chief Justice, who had said that his con-
duct in repeatedly stressing to a jury that
the punishment for murder is death “was
most improper.” The Bar Council said it
•wasn’t improper, and Lord Hewart had no
further remarks to make. Yet the Bar Coun-
cil is an upstart as legal institutions go (it
only came into existence in 1894) and it is
no more than an advisory body. It has made
hundreds of rules, some of which are com-
monly obeyed (such as that counsel may not
take a smaller fee than £1 3s. 6d. —a guinea
for counsel and 2s. 6d. for his clerk). while
others are openly flouted. Thus, the Council
forbids barristers to “advertise themselves by
furnishing their photographs to the press,”
but every barrister who can get his picture
into a paper leaps at the chance. The
Council in England has 48 elected members,
plus six co-opted members, and its head is
i Thomas Hughes, K.C.
A QUALIFIED PREFERENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETN.]
“Woman, with comf. home, wishes to meet honor-
able seaman, 40 to 60 years.”— Aue view mat. ad.
They all love Jack. So much is axiomatic.
At winning smiles from girls behind the
bars
They keep their end up, Neptune’s sons
aquatic,
And p’r’aps a trifle more, with those of
Mars.
Eut why the limitation so emphatic
Wherewith the lady cramps the field in
tars ?
What the experience that makes her give
An extra penny for the adjective?
From her “comf. home” did, she in hesitancy
Recall some bold and honey-tongued A.B.
Who wooed and won a too confiding Nancy
(As blithe as her whose second name was
Lee)
And, sudden, turned elsewhere his fickle fancy
Or just vamoosed, as sailors will, to sea?
Was it the memory of some such spin
That made her put the “honorable” in?
They all love Jack. But still he faces bias
Where changeless constancy in love’s con-
cerned,
Since -ZEneas (whom Vergil labelled “pius”)
From amorous dalliance at Carthage turned
And mizzled, blackly false as Ananias,
And poor deserted Dido mourned —and
burned.
How oft he puts the comether on and skips,
The chap who hustles for his crust in ships!
Time was the general belief found favor
That Jack would wed in ev’ry port a bride.
But men were wickeder, as well as braver
Then—and the world was fifty times as
wide.
Yet still a certain gay Lothario flavor
Hangs round the calling. Hence the quali-
fied
But still a trifle jarring view mat. ad.:
Wanted, an honorable sailor lad.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“C.Q.”: The trees in Collins-street are
Melbourne’s near approach to vegetable
magic. Although the ground is concreted,
tarred or paved right up to their trunks,
they contrive to grow so rapidly that they
are seriously affecting the light in offices
two and three storeys above the road. The
perfect drainage of the soil for a square
mile around them would suggest, that they
get their moisture from subterranean
streams; but they are as quickly affected by
drought as those in the Alexandra Gardens
across the river. Incidentally, those nearest
the powerful lamps at the intersections
usually announce that spring is coming
several weeks before their mates. Are there
ultra-violet rays in ordinary electric light?
* * si: *
“Nikko”: Mention of the cable ship that
just managed to scrape her way through the
gap in a swing bridge at Port Adelaide (B.
2/l/’£9) recalls that a certain apprehensive-
ness was felt at Auckland some years ago
when it was announced that the port was to
have the honor of docking the Niagara.
When the Calliope dock was built at Auck-
land it remained an expensive luxury for
decades, nothing worthy of its dimensions
ever coming to occupy it. The docking of
the Niagara was a delicate piece of work,
despite the fact that on paper the measure-
ments worked out all right, and sundry
officials breathed more easily when it was
discovered that the dock gates could just
about close on the big mailboat. Three feet
at each end was all the space there was to
spare.
* * * *
“Pantagruel”: British Judges and the
British Medical Association seem, between
them, to have hit at last on a definition of
drunkenness (as an offence against the law)
that is an improvement on anything pre-
viously laid down or suggested. The pro-
position is that a man should be regarded as
drunk if, as the result of drinking an alco-
holic beverage, he is unable to do with safety
that which he is attempting to do at the
moment of his arrest. Of course, this makes
his inebriety depend upon what he is en-
gaged at as well as what he has taken —he
might be trying to drive a motor, he might
be attempting to walk or he might be merely
endeavoring to stand—but it lias points to
recommend it. Granted that it is impossible
to lay down a hard-and-fast definition of
drunkenness, something has been gained if it
STALLED.
“This is a nice time to come home!”
“Shorry! Took a coupla fellas home in their car. An’ then there wazhn’t nob’dy (hic)
bring me home — shee, m’dear?”
is well and truly established at what point a
man is drunk enough to warrant his being the
subject of police attention.
* * * *
“D. Empson”: C. H. Wickens, most pains-
taking of realists, reports that there were
20 cases of triplets among Australian births
in 1927. Queensland led, in proportion to
population, with seven cases; in one the
father was 58 and the mother 36, and in
another dad was 53 and mum 38. Of twins
there were 1453 pairs, N. S. Wales furnish-
ing the greatest number, relatively as well
as absolutely—s Bo. Twenty-nine seems the
dangerous age for the double event; as re-
gards fathers and mothers alike, it was well
ahead of the procession in 1927. But 60
is not too old for some uxorious gentlemen.
Among the cases recorded by the learned
author were a New South Welshman of 65
married to a lady of 27, a Victorian of 62
whose wife was 37, another Cabbage Gar-
dener of 60 with a 37-year-old spouse, and
a Westralian of 58, the missus being 34.
Respecting single births, there were six
mothers aged 13, 24 aged 14 and 134 aged
15, while at the other end of the scale there
were 11 who owned to 49, 5 to 50 and 1 to
51. And a lady of 44, married for 24 years,
proudly presented the old man with her
20th pledge of affection.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket” : Most women who go
into business on their own account aim either
to make money or to escape the humdrum
of housekeeping, or both. But I know one
well-to-do woman to whom it is merely a
pleasing, if expensive, hobby. She runs a
matrimonial agency, and it is no secret
that the business has never even paid
expenses; but the boss, full of the curious
enthusiasm that makes a match-maker, finds
an interest in life in her “cases” —some queer
cases, too, including moneyed people, who
should be able to find matrimonial mates
without employing the services of a go-
between. The lady with this queer passion
for uniting others has herself divorced two
unsatisfactory husbands.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: The fashion in women’s names,
like that in men’s whiskers, depends on the
taste and fancy of the country. Prince
Olav, of Sweden, according to the cable, is
affianced to the prettiest princess in Europe,
a Swedish royalty, whose name is Martha.
It would be nearly as hard to find a Martha
as a Hannah or a Jemima among Britain’s
aristocracy nowadays, though time was
when the names were popular enough. Pos-
sibly, however, Martha runs more trippingly
off the tongue in Swedish. Haakon, the
name of Olav’s father, sounds imposing
enough for any king, but none the less it
is simply the Swedish equivalent for the
good old English Hawkins. Somehow it is
hard to imagine a King Hawkins, since a
certain ’Enry of that ilk became an aspirate-
less figure in a Cockney music-hall ballad.
* * * *
“J.G.P.”: In a recent Bulletin “M.G.S.”
contrasts Esperanto disparagingly with Eng
lish as a medium of communication, and
claims to have spoken to members of 40
different nationalities in his mother tongue.
But Esperanto has done more than that for
me; it enabled me to enjoy social life with
representatives of 40 nationalities at Danzic
in 1927. They included a thousand persons
from all parts of the world. Also I enjoyed
social life in a leisurely journey from Danzic
to Constantinople, thanks to Esperanto, being
welcomed in Warsaw, Bucharest, Sofia and
various other cities in the international
tongue. With the aid of Esperanto I could
not only talk to people but see how they
lived.
* * * *
“Exon”: I heard the first General Booth
speak at Exeter Hall, London, in 1890.
Perhaps he couldn’t have been called an
orator, but he had the earnestness and the
vehement sincerity that one associates with
an old-time Hebrew prophet—and something
of the appearance of a Bible patriarch, too.
If there was ever a dominating personality
his was one; so marked was his ascendancy
over the organisation he had created that
many people doubted in those days if the
“Army” could possibly survive the death of
its founder. Like as. not, the same doubts
were expressed about the future of the
Wesleyan sect by those who fell under John
Wesley’s spell, and wondered who could be
a fit successor to such a preacher. The
trouble in Booth’s case was that during his
lifetime nobody was counted near the throne
except his own children, and talent or genius
of the sort he showed can hardly be ex-
peeted to be hereditary. Bramwell proved
to be a very pale replica of William.
* * * *
“Admiral Blowmetight”: Not many Aus-
tralians are aware that room has been found
in the Australian navy for the original
owner of the country. The survey ship
Geranium, which has been plotting areas in
North Queensland waters, carries six “deck
boys.” natives of Melville and Bathurst
Islands, on the ship’s books. Recently the
craft crawled up the Fitzroy River to Rock-
hampton to “show the flag,” and the sex-
tette, immaculate in white ducks, with cap
and ribbon en suite, attracted even more
popular attention than their paler brethren
of the R.A.N. For a very long time it has
been the custom on the West African Station
for the R.N. ships to carry a certain com-
plement of Kroomen, a tribe skilled in surf-
boat work and similar duties on that diffi-
cult coast, as the N.Q. natives are in the in-
tricacies of the coral reefs of their own
waters.
* * * *
“Bert the Carpenter” : The cable-ship which
scraped through the Port Adelaide swing-
bridge with eight
inches to spare (B.
2/l/'29) reminds
me that a few
years ago the Adel-
aide Tramways had
a huge new turbo-
alternator sent out
from England for
their Port Adelaid'
power-house. A few
days before it
arrived someon
discovered that the
S.A. Railways
hadn’t a single
truck big enough
or strong enough
to bear the weight
—some 60 tons.
The Defence De
partment, h o w-
ever, had a 40-ton
truck, and this was
hired. While wait
ing for the turbine
to be unloaded a
fresh problem pre-
sented itself —an
engineer, on exam-
ining the blueprints,
estimated that the
truck and turbine
would be four
inches too high to
pass under the two
bridges between the
wharf and the
power-station. The
only hope was that
the chassis of the
latter would bend
sufficiently under
the weight to en-
able its load to
clear the bridges.
And, fortunately,
the truck did bend.
With one engine
pushing and an-
other pulling, the
weighty mass of
steel passed safely
under the bridges
with nearly an
inch to spare.
Nowadays, of
course, S.A. Railway Commissioner Webb’s
modern rolling-stock would laugh at a job
like that.
* * * *
“Narara”: Optimistic suicides? I knew a
young man who after some months of ill-
health decided to shuffle off this mortal coil.
Prior to doing so he wrote a letter to a
friend enclosing two Golden Casket tickets.
He added that he had an idea one of them
was going to win a big prize, and he asked
his friend, in that event, to collect the money
and distribute it as he specified. Neither of
the tickets drew anything.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Monaco has found its way
into the cables again, the prince of that
pocket-handkerchief realm having
staged a dictatorship similar in
kind, if not in degree, to that of
King Alexander of Jugoslavia.
Monaco’s population is less than
that of Manly, but the steady re-
venue from the gaming tables at
the Casino keeps it in a prosperous
condition. My experience of that
rococo hall of vice was probably the
briefest and most inglorious on re-
cord. It was just after the war,
and there had been many com-
pla'ints of soldiers losing their sub-
stance there. A horde of function-
aries demanded my passport before
allowing me to enter the portals.
I placed 50 francs on a number on
the other side of the table, and I
suppose I must have looked a
greenhorn, for when the number
came up, a perfect stranger oppo-
site calmly raked in my winnings.
I rose to protest, but had hardly
opened my mouth when the horde
of functionaries aforesaid seized
and hustled me outside the building.
It appeared that they had just dis-
covered that my passport described
me as an “employee,” and under a
new law employees were not
allowed to gamble. If Louis's de-
struction of the Monaco constitu-
tion entails a bloody revolution I shall take
the news quite calmly.
1 Hi Hi Hi *
“Listinsect” : The Australian Universities
and the Listeners’ League have combined to
ask Priminister Bruce that a separate wire-
less station with its own wave-length should
be established for the broadcasting exclusively
of educational talks and lectures. At present
these Cinderellas of radio are sandwiched in
anywhere. Half the time they hit the wrong
ears, while those who want the stuff can’t
bd bothered wading through the oceans of
jazz and the like to find it. Every year Aus-
tralian universities provide valuable extension
lectures, but they reach only a handful. A
radio station would enlarge the audiences by
thousands. Several American universities do
their own broadcasting, and eminent visiting
scientists don’t despise the new medium.
H; *
“C.Q.”: The teaching that cigarettes are
synonymous with sin (B. 9/l/’29) is not
confined to foreign parts by any means. Not
long since, a Diggers’ conference was ejected
from a denominational hall in Melbourne be-
cause its members burned tobacco.
* * H= *
“Amicus Curiae”: In part, at least, the
decision of the Salv’army High Council to
depose Bramwell Booth is due to the neces-
sity for cutting a legal knot. Under the S.A.
foundation deeds the General alone had
sole power over the property of the organi-
sation —its funds, its lands, its buildings,
its loans and its borrowings. William Booth
shed himself of this burden by granting a
power of attorney to his son Bramwell, but
the British Trustee Act of 1925 makes it
impossible for any trustee to give a power
of attorney so long as he remains in the
country or is absent from the country for
not more than nine days. Hence it has been
necessary for Bramwell Booth throughout
his sickness to affix his signature to many
documents, and to make many decisions,
THE ONLY TIME THEY’RE NOT CONSPICUOUS.
“Doris looks well when she’s bathing, doesn’t she?”
“Yes, it’s such a relief to lose sight of her legs.”
an irksome task for an invalid. The
deposition of Bramwell Booth opens up new
legal questions. Under the second founda-
tion deed the General is given power to
appoint his successor and must make in
writing, soon after his appointment, a state-
ment as to his successor or as to the means
which are to be taken for the appointment
of a successor “upon his own decease, or
upon his ceasing to perform the duties of
his office.’’ In the event of litigation a lot
may depend upon the interpretation placed
on that last phrase.
* * * *
“X2X”: The branding of criminals by in-
jecting paraffin under the skin (B. 2/l/’29)
is a German and not a French invention.
But the Berlin police abandoned it years
ago when it was discovered that the wax
could be removed by injecting with a hypo-
dermic syringe some simple solvent sub-
stance into the lump, allowing it to remain
there for a few minutes and then inserting
the needle again and drawing out the dis-
solved wax. When this process had been
repeated a few times all the paraffin. was
removed and the lump disappeared entirely.
❖ # * H«
“Oran”: A suicide horrified onlookers at
Rotorua (M.L.) recently by leaping into a
boiling pool. He achieved his object unham-
pered in front of quite a number of people,
having chosen one of the few methods where
the chance of interference by bystanders is
reduced to a minimum.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Six new bridges are mooted in
Melbourne as well as reconstructions of the
Victoria and Hawthorn structures, and one
can only hope that some consideration will
be given to the question of design. The
Anglo-Saxon used to be a builder of beauti-
ful bridges, as anyone who has travelled in
the English counties well knows. One may
see these gracious structures in the paint-
ings of old Chrome, Stark, Cotman and
others of the Norwich school. The tradition
they helped to create was brought to Aus-
tralia, and some notable bridges resulted,
especially in the Speck. Since then the idea
that a bridge should be anything more than
a means of crossing something or other has
almost entirely vanished. Melbourne’s dis-
tinguished exception is the Church-Street
bridge, which combines utility with elegance
so nicely that the suburbs it joins aim at
preserving its approaches, that its charm
may not be smothered in factory buildings.
THE RED ROAD.
[For Tub Bulletin.]
Out of the dust of the dreaming city
The red road winds to the distant sea,
By gardens fragrant with frangipanni
Where pink hibiscus blooms drowsily.
Swift storms have covered the hills with
verdure,
Banana palms crown a distant rise,
Through tasselled glory of corn-sown patches,
A restless spirit, the low wind sighs.
The road curves down past a stretch of
water
Where tea-trees mirror their trunks of
white;
Wild duck are astir in the rippled shallows
And mullet flash in the sheer sunlight.
Heart of my heart, how the road is calling—
Athwart its ribbon the shadows play—
Out of <he dust of the dreaming city
To the sea, its songs and holiday.
QUEENSLAND.
A. GORE-JONES.
ABSENT.
[FOR THE BULLETN.]
Sometimes in meadows at the end of day.
Or on an upland where the great winds
are,
Or looking through the tree-tops at a star,
I do not think that you have gone away.
Sometimes I hear your footsteps by the wall,
And see a shadow flitting past the gate;
Sometimes at the old house I sit and wait
And hear along the hill your nearing call.
And at this noonday, while your dear sun
shone,
And in your garden flowers were
blossoming,
Above the birds you loved I heard you sing,
But when I went to meet you, you were gone.
To-night I sit alone and watch the grey
And misty fields of evening fade and pass.
The woods are lost in darkness; through
the grass
The wind sighs as it falls and drifts away.
S.A.
D. P. McGUIRE.


Everything
(with the exception
of a few proprietary
lines) throughout
the store is reduced
at least
w
3m
Immense
Stocks
have been gathered
together and are
being swept out at
reductions as low as
Half Price!
r
%
Outfit him now
#
■at a Big Saving!
Genuine
Reductions
in Boys’
Cotswold Suits
MADE from Selected Australian Woollen
Tweeds of excellent wearing qualities, in
dark and mid Grey shades. Coat smartly
cut with two side pockets, one breast pocket. Plain knee
Knickers (as illustrated). With strong Silesia lining. Sizes
4 to 12, fit boys 6 to 14 years.
Usually 30/- Sale Price
23'8
Boys’
u Canberra”
Tweed Suits
Excellent-quality hard-wearing fancy Worsteds
in mid and dark Grey. Coat has no belt or vent
at back. Plain Knee Knickers. Sizes fit boys 6 to 10
years.
Usually 40/- Sale Price
34'3
Youths*
Smart Tweed
Suits
Youths’ S.B. Sac Suits (as illustrated)
cut high-grade All-wool Australian
dark Grey. Sizes 12 to 2|, fit youths 14
. Perfectly-
Tweeds in
to 18. Coat,
Vest, and Trousers ready to wear.
Usually 59/6 Sale Price
49'9
Youths’ Double-Breasted Sac Suits
Trousers cut with wide legs. Cut from superior Worsteds of
mid or dark Grey shades. Usually 84/- Sale Price,
72'6
Bargains in Boys’ Mercery
SMARTLY • CUT RANGER KNICKERS FOR
BOYS, flne-quality Tweed or Cheviot Serge.
Excellent wearing. Sizes 1 to 6 only, fit boys
3 to 8. USUALLY 8/6-
Sale Price «• - SAII5 A 11
BOYS’ ZEPHYR GOLF SHIRTS. Strong-
wearing. Neatly-woven stripes. Soft collar to
match. USUALLY 5/11-
Sale Price - - 4^6
BOYS’ WHITE MERCERISED TENNIS SHIRTS,
of excellent wearing ability. With pocket and
collar. USUALLY 4/«.
Sale Price * *• ' 3 , 7
BOYS’ AND YOUTHS’ FLANNELETTE
PYJAMAS, comfortably cut. Neat stripes. Un-
excelled wearing quality. USUALLY 6/11-
Sale Price - * 4 / H
BOYS’ NATURAL UNDERSHIRTS, merino
finish. Excellent quality. Made to resist hard
wear. sizes .. 22-24 in 26-28 in 30-32 in
USUALLY 3/3 R/ll 4/6
Sale Price 2'9 3'3 3'9
BOYS’ ALL-WOOL GOLF HOSE of renowned
wearing qualities, strongly woven. Black and
Grey. Sizes to fit 13 to 8 boot. USUALLY 3/11
Sale Price - - 2'B
BOYS’ FELT HATS, in latest shades of Slate,
Steel, Fawn, Navy, or Brown. Ideal for school
or better wear. USUALLY 7/11-
Sale Price - - 6 r 9
BOYS’ AND YOUTHS’ TIES. A wide range of
neat stripes and designs. Buy now before the
stocks are sold out. USUALLY 4/6-
Sale Price * - 1/11
ŕ
I
■I
W rite for Our Big Sate Catalogue
FREE!
When ordering please address all
letters to Desk &•* Dox 3875 T.T. ,
C.P.O.
MURDOCHS £ SYDNEY
“The Worlds Largest Mens and Boys Wear Store,


t&izt# © z&z &
fP
2S? st.
“BLUNTON”
The Comfort
Collar.
A stiff collar—-popular
peaked style—but with
points rounded to prevent
rubbing through your
shirts. Cool—-lightweight
and curved in front to
stand out from the neck.
Perfect fit and easy pas-
sage of your tie are
guaranteed!
An “Arrow” Collar
1/9 each; 20/- doz.
EXCEPTIONAL VALUE-
AUSTRALIAN-MADE ENTREE DISH,
r
£2/2/-
Of fine design and finish, these dishes are heavily plated on best
hard white-metal. The cover is so fashioned that it may be used
as a separate utensil. This considerably increases the usefulness
of the piece. .
There are years of service in these dishes, which are wonderful
value at £2/2/-.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.
PLAIN FIGURES.
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
CASH ON^Y.
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed (or the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Gable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
PERSONAL ITEMS
“BIG BILL” McCORMACK, Premier of
Queensland, who has just expressed the
opinion that Australia is so heavily in
debt that it must be content at present
to unify the gauges of only those rail-
ways which connect the capitals.
Three Australians were in the running for
the International Aeronautical Federation’s
1928 gold medal —Hinkler, Wilkins and
Kingsford Smith. Hinkler won, his feat in
flying single-handed from England to Aus-
tralia in record time and in a small-powered
’plane being regarded by the judges as the
outstanding achievement of a year that
added many notable chapters to the history
of aviation ; hut the voting was as close as
it possibly could be. Hinkler was one vote
ahead of Wilkins and Smith, who were on
an equality in the polling with De Laviera,
the Spaniard, who justified Jules Verne by
his invention of a heavier-than-air craft that
could screw itself up into the air; with the
French aviator Costes, who girdled the globe,
and with the Italian airman Ferrarin, who
flew from Italy to Brazil. The unobtrusive
little chap from Bundaberg (Q.) can tell
his grandchildren that he won a classic event
in superlatively good company.
The passing of Justice Higgins leaves only
nine. survivors of the 50 Federal Conven-
tionists of 1897-9 S, who first met in Adelaide
to frame the Commonwealth Constitution.
The nine are Justice Isaacs, Dr. Quick and
Speaker Peacock (Vic.) ; Joseph Carruthers
(N.S.W.) ; Elliott Lewis (Tas.) ; Josiah
Symon, K.C., Dr. Cockburn and Paddy
Glynn, K.C. (S. A us.) ; and Walter James,
K.C. (Westralia). James is the youngest
of them; he was only 34 when Forrest
carried him oft' to the Convention.
The late Justice Higgins, when a Vic.
politician, made a bid for the Premiership
in February, 1900, but, finding that the
Opposition, led by George Turner, had de-
cided to walk out in a body, he withdrew
the no-confidence motion of which he had
given notice. The previous day Turner had
said that personally he approved of the word-
ing of Higgins’s motion. The Age also left
Higgins in the lurch after allowing him to
understand that it would countenance his
little adventure. Oddly enough, McLean,
against whom these manoeuvres were directed,
would have included Higgins in the Cabinet
in 1899 if three of his supporters had not
objected. ,
Douglas Mawson is not the only geologist
at Adelaide Uni. who is getting restless again.
C. T. Madigan, who went south under Maw-
son, was a Rhodes Scholar afterwards, and
is now again under Mawson at the Univer-
sity, wants to take a small expedition into
Central Australia, where, he says, there is
an area quite as large as Tasmania with
nothing known about it. But, very sensibly,
he proposes first to cruise over it in the
air, to see if it looks worth while.
The Tahiti brought a Mexican Consul to
Sydney at the week-end —Don Carlos Zalapa.
When the Yankees were trying to grab Villa
in 1916, and sent an army over the border
under General Pershing, Don Carlos was one
of the Mexicans who objected with rifles.
After the dispute had been settled he went
to Paris and did war work for the Allies.
Thomas Donovan, dead in Sydney, aged
85. was almost the last “old boy” of Cape’s
school, where many of N.S.W.’s leading citi-
zens began their education three-quarters of
a century ago. He was a barrister of the
Middle Temple, a Shakspearean student and
a critic of merit. Some of his big fortune
went to the completion of St. Mary’s Cath-
edral, and he gave £30,000 to Newman Col-
lege, Melbourne, mainly to help descendants
of ex-Diggers along the educational road;
he has left an additional £20.000 and his
library, which is one of the best in N. S.
Wales, “for university education in Sydney
of descendants of our glorious A.1.F.”
J. L. (“Johnny”) Woolcock, Judge of the
Queensland Supreme Court, who is dead
at 67, was a Cousin Jack, but arrived in
Australia young enough to be educated at
Brisbane Grammar School and Sydney
Uni. He was called to the Queensland Bar
in 1887. Always a better man in his
chambers than in the courts, Woolcock a as
Parliamentary draftsman for 28 years, and
edited the 1890 and 1910 editions of “Queens-
land Statutes.” Hundreds of Gents. One in
Queensland bear him in kindly remembrance
as a not too exacting examiner for the Law
Institute. He did not live to long enjoy
the honors of the Bench; his elevation dated
from February, 1927. /
Queensland, as well as the Commonwealth,
will have two judgeships vacant presently;
its Allan Wight Macnaughton, J., is due to
retire in March—he will be 70 on the 21 st.
Born in Edinburgh, he came to Australia
at 21, was admitted to the N.S.W. Bar in
1882, and assumed a Queensland wig in 1884.
Proceeding to Townsville, he built up a
flourishing practice in the intervals of in-
troducing golf to the local nobility and
gentry. He dispensed justice in the Queens-
land District Court for nearly four years
and was an Arbitration Judge for nine years
before being raised to the Supreme Court
Bench on March 31, 1922.
The death, at St. Kilda, of Graham Berry
who, after serving as a Vic. Treasury clerk
for 47 years, retired two years ago, has
served to remind the present generation that
his dad was, half a century ago, a tribune
and idol of the people. After three terms
as Premier, during which he made history,
the elder Graham Berry became joint head
with James Service of the Great Coalition;
then he was Agent-General. Treasurer (under
Shiels), Speaker and member of the Federal
Convention. (1897-98). An extract from one
of his speeches on defence appears in the
collected works of Tennyson; it inspired a
stirring poem. Son Graham was unambi-
tious and retiring. He was content with his
comparatively minor position, having enough
for his simple wants as a bachelor.
Rev. Young Wai, who has shepherded his
flock of Sydney Chinese Presbyterians for
42 years, is on his way back to China with
his wife, but intends returning to Australia.
The Wais have three sons —one a doctor w 7 ho
graduated at Sydney Uni., another an archi-
tect and the third in business —and three
married daughters; and there are grand-
children. They are hold in great reverence
by the congregation.
South Aus. is chuckling merrily over a
G.P.O. incident concerning its ex-Premier
John Gunn, now a member of the Migration
and Development Commission. Berri, a fruit-
growing settlement on the Murray, lately
sent to him at Canberra an invitation to
come over and open its new packing-shed.
The letter was returned with the endorse-
ment “Not known.” v
The Danish Professor Schmidt, who
landed in Sydney from Maoriland last week,
is one of the most distinguished of the world’s
marine zoologists. He it was who discovered
a secret which had puzzled mankind for cen-
turies, the reason for the annual migration
of adult eels to the sea, and the arrival
of the elvers, countless millions of them, in
fresh-water streams from the sea. There
is no more fascinating story in natural his-
tory than that of the rendezvous of the
American and European eels in the North
Atlantic and the return of the young eels
after spawning, each contingent to its own
continent. The Professor has come to Aus-
tralia to do for the Pacific eel what he has
done for its Atlantic relative.
Robert Furse McMillan, doyen of the seven
Chief Justices in Australia, will be 71 to-
morrow (Jan. 24). He has been Westralian
C.J. since Dec., 1913. McMillan was born
in London, whence Westralia got him for
the Supreme Court Bench 26 years ago. It
was so pleased with the result that when
the next vacancy occurred it sent to England
again, hoping to pick another McMillan. In
this it failed; and the experiment has not
been repeated.
Ernest James Hume, who died in Adelaide
the other day, was the inventor of the Hume
concrete-pipe. From that apparently simple
discovery developed an Australian industry
which is now world wide. In the East
the drainage and rescue from the malarial
mosquito of the naval base at Singapore is
largely done through Hume productions.
Ernest James and his brother, Walter R.,
started business in Melbourne 19 years ago.
E. J. retired some years ago, but got back
into, the collar again to found several com-
panies, including a wireless station.
JOHN LANGDON
BONYTHON, who
has made much
over a million out
of the Adelaide
Advertiser. He
is the chairman
of a co. with
a capital of
£1,500,000 which
has bought it
from him.
Adelaide will
miss Julian
Ayers, who has
told his last
good story at 55.
Grandson of a
former president
of the Leg.
Council, Julian
found a huge
frame no ob-
stacle to success
in sports, and
he shone at
most of them, but especially, 30 years ago,
as goalkeeper for S.A. in lacrosse. Latterly he
was a martyr to rheumatism, but his genial
disposition and really witty tongue kept him
going socially.
Dr. Harrington Lees was the first mitred
head of the Vic. Anglicans to die in harness;
his predecessors, Perry, Moorhouse, Goe and
Clarke, all resigned. So the archbishopric
electoral board has to meet a new situation.
It consists of six clerics—Dean Aickin,
Archdeacons Hancock and Lamble, Canon
Langley and Revs. Hewett and Roscoe Wil-
son—and six laymen—Merritt, ex-M.L.C.,
Dr. Deeper, L. A. Adamson, H. Turner, W.
M. Buntine and F. L. D. Homan. The
Bishops of Gippsland, Bendigo, Ballarat,
Wangaratta and St. Arnaud have a sort of
veto on the electoral board, if they like to
exercise it, as the Archbishop will also be
metropolitan of the province. If an Aus-
tralian is to be chosen— and it is time an
Australian was chosen—George Merrick
Long, of Newcastle, who used to be head-
master of Trinity School, Kew, has strong
claims, but the former Dean of Melbourne,
now Bishop of Wangaratta, may have quite
as good a chance.
George Forbes, Maoriland’s uew Minister
of Lands and Agriculture, has well earned
bis job. Born and brought up in Lyttelton,
where his dad was in the ship-chandleriug
line, he was a Canterbury rep. in Rugby
Union football and an oarsman of renown.
YY hen John McKenzie shooed the shepherd
kings out of Cheviot, Forbee got a section
in the ballot and prospered—it was golden
land. But, unlike other poor men who got
rich on Cheviot and bit the political hand
that fed them, he held fast to Liberalism.
After Ward’s defeat Forbes became Tom
Wilford’s first lieutenant, and then his suc-
cessor, Wilford’s health having given way;
and the man's prompt resignation in favor
G. W. FORBES , M.L. Minister of Lands
and Agriculture.
of Ward now that the wandering in the
wilderness is over is exactly what hi 3 friends
—he has no enemies—expected of him. Men
on the land, particularly the hard-working
strugglers, are rejoicing over Forbes’s accept-
ance of the agrarian portfolios.
F. J. T. Perceval, the Canadian rancher
who has become the tenth Earl of Egmont, is
a cousin of the Alec Matheson who was one
of Westralia’s original Senators —he is now
Sir Alexander Matheson of Lochalsh. Both
are grandsons of Spencer Perceval, Prime
Minister of England, who was murdered by
a man with a grievance in the lobby of the
House of Commons in 1812.
One of the most gracious things Tommy
Bent did as Pi-emier of Vic. was to stage
a demonstrative welcome to just-dead Major -
Gencral Talbot when his Ex. returned from
' a trip to the Cold Land with his dame,.
The gentlemanly old soldier’s heart was
gladdened, and Melbourne folk never knew
till then how sweetly his wife could smile.
The Talbots had had a suspicion when they
were going away that people might have been
only polite in wishing them a safe return.
In point of fact, Victorians regarded Talbot
as a fine specimen of imported Governor,
and Bent interpreted this feeling correctly
when he prompted the welcome at Spencer-
street.
McPhairson’s Vic. Ministry is not discon-
certed at having 13 at Cabinet meetings, in-
cluding Kent Hughes, the sec. The Allan-
cocks, with the same number, managed to
last for 2| years without anything dreadful
happening. Groves, who is now Minister
for Railways, was then Cabinet sec. and
generally-useful man to the team.
Ex-Lud Mayor Morell has been appointed
to the Metropolitan Tram Board (Vic.) in
place of the late Aid. Cabena. It will be a
novelty for Morell to have a public job, to
which there is some pay (about £250 p.a.)
attached. The board’s term will expire at
the end of the year; the future control of the
tramway system will have to be decided be-
fore then by the Ministry and Parliament.
“John Drayman” and his neighbors:—
Tasmania’s prize centenarian is the Rev. Charles
L’Oste, who had a 100th birthday on January 9.
He first came to Australia in 1861, later tripped to
Tasmania (1881) to see his younger brother, and
stayed on. He keeps abreast of the times, reads
everything, writes a little, walks back and forth
between the township and his home, two miles away,
almost daily, and smokes and jokes and philosophises
pretty much as he has been doing since about the
time Princess Betty’s great-great-grandma ascended
the throne of Britain. His brother, J, H. W. L’Oste,
was long my next-door and well-beloved neighbor
in Hobart. He was then a careless youth of eighty-
odd, and possessed a fine library and an adopted
daughter. When a returned soldier from Queensland
swooped down on Tasmania and proposed to carry
off the daughter to the Atherton Tableland, my
reverend crony agreed that he ought to have a look
at Queensland while he was still young. So he
packed his cargo of books, said good-bye to a host
of astonished friends, tucked his patriarchal beard
into his waistbelt, and set sail northward with the
newlv-wedded pair. He was nearly 90 ere the Reaper
found him a couple of years ago.
THE TRAVELLED REFORMER.
[FOR THE BULLETN.]
ř
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


"LOOK'ARE, GIGGER"
"SPARE A MOMEN T, MAJOR"
” I SATY, SERGEANT.”
ITS THIS WAY, COLONEL."-
TACTICS.
" EXCUSE ME, CADTN"
”A COPPER! YAH!
I DON'T BELIEVE YOU THE WAR!"
poverty
Point
“Hamfat” : Salaries were long overdue and
the company finally held an indignation meet-
ing to demand at least something on account.
The management graciously announced that
the next day it would pay out some money for
urgent requirements. Most of the mummers
were satisfied, but a knock-back came to Or-
lando Blather. “What’s this?” thundered the
manager as he read Blather’s requisition.
“Five pounds for false teeth? What the hell
does an actor want teeth for?”
“Country Ped”: How far behind the times
Australian broadcasting has been permitted
to lag by the supine Federal Government
is indicated by the fact that the seven 8.8. C.
stations in England broadcast at least one
plav weekly from each main provincial
station. These plays are not snippets from
some popular success running on the boards,
but specially written radio dramas lasting
from 15 to 30 minutes. Australian writers,
who are now missing golden opportunities
of plying this new development of their
trade under the present regime, should be
the first in the arena, along with our singers
and musicians, when the present _ broad-
casting people put up their fight against the
mooted changes proposed by the Wireless
Control Board.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : The best play seen in
London for many a day is “Jealousy,” by
Eugene Waters, from the French of Louis
Yerneuil, and it is likely to have a great
run at the Fortune Theatre. It has only
two characters. When originally produced
it had ten. Yerneuil then planned to recon-
struct it in its present form, restricting him-
self to two characters, one set of scenery and
a few telephone calls. Yet with these limited
means he has provided a great play, and
throughout the three acts the attention of
the audience is splendidly held by the tense
development of the story. It tells of a man
who marries his former mistress. On their
wedding day he gives way to jealousy, which
ends in the murder of her former guardian,
a millionaire banker, who is found strangled
in his apartments. The part of the husband
is played by Crane Wilbur, who lias been
in London before. That of his wife is in the
hands of Mary Newcomb, fresh from
America. They are both artistes of the first
rank; indeed, every encomium in the dic-
tionary has been handed out to the brilliant
lady, and the audience rose to them both
in a white-heat of approval.
“City Imp”: I am beginning to think that
the stock jokes about actors and landladies
have a lot of truth in them. My residential
goddess, at least, complains bitterly of actor
people. If one of either sex inquires for a
room she immediately puts the rent up a
dollar, and demands a fortnight in advance
before she allows the suitcase to go under
the bed. “It’s the Devil’s job getting
rid of ’em,” she wails. “They hide
the key of the door, an’ come back
at all hours, sneaking about when they
think I’m asleep. And when they’re
flush —the parties they have! They turn
the place into a night-life picture-show. They
pay for one room and bring their stony-
broke friends to sleep in it. They’re the
cheekiest things in the world when they’re
in money, an’ when they’re not their tongue
is so well oiled it will turn the rustiest lock
without making a squeak.”
“Nakhoda”: I heartily agree with “D.’s”
objections (B. 9/l/’29) to animal acts of the
sort he describes, but his sympathy for the
monkey which leaps 100 feet into its trainer’s
hand is probably misplaced. The species hails
from Java, and I have seen dozens of them
doing the same sort of thing across a jungle
road and evidently enjoying it. The greatest
cruelty lies in making animals do things
nature never intended them to do. A dog
turning a somersault is a worse spectacle
than a monkey leaping at an object through
the air.
“D.”: Covent Garden, which, in Melba’s
cabled words, “is being torn down in two
years’ time,” has seen many changes since
its site was a convent garden five centuries
ago. Until the end of Ed. Vll.’s reign it
was as fashionable as Ascot. When not in
use as an opera house the famous (or notori-
ous) Covent Garden balls were staged there.
They were drunken affairs, patronised chiefly
by wealthy men-about-town and the ladies
of the half-world. With the arrival on the
throne of George V. opera became unfashion-
able. Sir Thomas Beecham, who lost about
£lOO,OOO at the house, was so annoyed
at the persistent indifference of the King,
Queen and their offspring to his ventures
that he had the Royal arms taken off the
famous box which had been reserved for
royalties for over 200 years. The Georgian
era also saw the last of the Covent Garden
balls; they were killed by changes in the
liquor laws and by the advent of “respec-
table” night clubs. Latterly, the historic
theatre has fallen so low as to be used in
the winter as a cheap jazz hall.
“C.R.”: Feminine admirers of Novikoff,
whose sensational * legs raised blushes on
many cheeks during Pavlova’s last Austra-
lian season, will be grieved to hear' that he
will not dance opposite the star on this
occasion. Her new partner will be Pierre
Vladimiroff. The second ballerina will be
Ruth French, regarded as one of the leading
English dancers of the day. A German,
Efrem Kurtz, and an Englishman, Walford
Hyden. will be the two conductors, and there
will be the usual mob of supernumeraries
with Russian names and—judging by the
previous company—mainly English parents.
“Hamfat”: Frantic apologies from the
Williamson management have followed Bouci-
cault’s Auckland outburst against labor con-
ditions in Australia. The usual “misre-
ported” excuse is given, but the views as
cabled are very much like those known to
be in the mind of Boueicault, who advised
the people he brought with him to Aus-
tralia for the Barrie circle of plays that it
would do them no good to associate with
Australian mummers, who were a restless
lot, vitiated with the radical opinions of the
country.
“C. 8.”: The revival by J.C.W. of “The
Merry Widow,” with Virginia Perry in the
lead, mentioned by “E.C.” (B. 16/F/29),
was certainly mooted, but it is now off. Even
an organisation as devoted to imported stars
as the Firm could hardly see the English
girl as a successor to the Widows Australia
has seen. Nevertheless, those two Melbourne
products, Marie Bremner and Romola Han-
stein, will get their chance in “The Desert
Song” all the same. Miss Perry will pro-
bably cease her connection with J.C.W. very
soon.
“Amity” : Two Sydney girls who have re-
turned from a three years’ tour promise to
give this city something that may actually be
described as a long-felt want. This is a
theatre for children, and Joan and Betty
Rayner are the capable and ambitious young
women who propose to undertake the job. The
Theatre of Youth will present plays suitable
for juveniles, though the players will be
grown-ups, and in a search embracing Europe
and America the T.O.Y. players have gath-
ered a fund of good material for their under-
taking. The girls, who are the daughters of
artist and cartoonist Fred Rayner, are Maori-
land born, but have made Sydney their home
for some years. A third sister, Molly, has
had success on the Australian stage.
“Lever”: Henry Arthur Jones, whose
passing was chronicled in Poverty Point
lately, was another of those playwrights for
whom the theatre was the sweeter because
it was stolen fruits. His parents were
Buckinghamshire farmers, who regarded the
entrance to the theatre, stage-door or front,
as the gateway to Hades. Henry began as
a commercial traveller and was in the twen-
ties before he ever even saw the inside of
a playhouse. His first production was “Only
Round the Corner,” and lie subsequently
tried everything, from social comedy to
bellowdrama. “The Silver King” ran on its
first appearance in 1882 for a year, and has
been revived at intervals since, the last Nellie
Denver Australia saw being Muriel Starr.
Henry Arthur’s characters smelt more of
the sawdust than of life; but he was a past-
master of stagecraft, and, though he was
never very illuminating, he was seldom
merely dull.
“Hamfat”: The luck of the Carrolls may
change the fortune of efforts to bring Austra-
lia’s own stars back to their native country;
except with Melba, such efforts have had dis-
appointing and, in the case of Madame Alda,
disastrous results. The Carrolls are venturing
with Florence Austral, for whom they have
fixed 40 concerts in Australia and M.L. —
with the extras unmentioned, of course.
“Bill O’Costs” : Not only novelists, as men-
tioned on the Red Page recently, venture
upon criminal trial scenes in spite of the
tremendous difficulties involved in giving
them verisimilitude; dramatists are quite as
game. One obstacle is the need of recon-
ciling detail of procedure with dramatic ten-
sion. Another is the time involved; trial
proceedings on the stage being necessarily
crowded into about 40 minutes from charge
to conviction. This apparently struck Mar-
garet Kennedy, the brilliant author of “The
Constant Nymph,” or her collaborator. They
recently put on in London a drama called
“Come with Me,” one act of which was
devoted to a criminal trial, dull and dragging
in spite of its actual absurd brevity. The
authors put a note on the programme thus :
“During this scene it will be apparent that
the proceedings occupy more than one day.”
Of which one satirical rogue recorded: “This
was quite true; it seemed more like a week.”
“Brilliant Deeps”: How long ago did the
talkies originate? Can’t say, but in 1910, at
Hoyt’s open-air picture show on Charters
Towers (Q.), I saw a series of talkie films
which included a whole variety turn by
Harry Lauder, a bibulous ballad entitled
“ ’Ave Er Glarss Er Gin, Ole Dear,” and a
waltz scene with singing by the dancers en
titled “Waltz Me Round Again, Willie.”
Voices and action, especially in the Lauder
turns, seemed to synchronise satisfactorily,
and, as far as I can recall, the apparatus was
not over-elaborate. It was at this same show
that I first heard Gladys Moncrieff, then a
tender nursling from Townsville, singing
sloppy sentimental stuff between the “flicks.”
Those talkies, Tom Burrows the club-swinger,
and Gladys were the star turns' of that
season, if I remember aright, and in about
the order named.
UNFORGIVABLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A man was sentenced to six months’ imprison-
ment for breaking into a music-shop and stealing a
saxophone.”
He had his pick of lots of things
That lay that shop within,
From harps with their melodious strings
To flute or violin.
A ’cello might have been his haul
With deep vibrating tone;
A banjoline. He passed them all,
And pinched a saxophone!
He saw a double bass—and swerved;
For playing that is labor.
A jazz drum would at least have served
To irritate a neighbor.
A sax. was all that he withdrew.
Ah, me ! his taste was odd.
And now he’s half a year to rue—•
I reckon he deserves it, too —
His black misdeed in quod.
N.s.w.
DORIC.


«*
made tfieiry, uray dy-
tAe uray ifceyie made"
■
f m
i wJf
<>r
w
m
:l:'. '
m
r
1
WSSBB
i %
I v :.-i
h
mm
m
t :-«
jf
shmT\
m
m
\
w
2
\
X.
1
■
M
>
■
There’s never The
slightest cbnige in
the jqoality that
created and keeps
theKvo>nderful
relation of -
Capstan
NAVY COT
CIGARETTES
r


I -V Cj^
&
4^
x?sSr
iA c°
Si-
C«^>
&
&>
.0
<V
#
c?
Telegraphic, Cable and Wireless Address:
“Austraotel, (Sydney
Delightful phases of the art
of living—unexpected comforts
and surprising features —atmo-
sphere and resources that are
rightfully world-famous. . . .
A magnificently - illustrated
booklet, tells of the manifold
attractions that await you at
“The Australia” write for
your copy if you are coming to
Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Vagabond King”
Criterion “The Patsy ’
Royal “The Girl Friend
Palace “The Family Upstairs”
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “The Desert Song
Royal (com. Saturday) Victory
King's “White Cargo”
Athen,eum “The Wrecker
New Comedy (com. Saturday)
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
♦
One of Sydney’s most important and in-
teresting shows of the year happened last
week —the one that is staged at the Art
Gallery in a glow of gilt props, and is called
the Archibald Prize Portraits. It’s a queer
mixing of virtuosity, not unlike comic opera,
with friend Sol’s spotlight upon the distin-
guished stars, and the obscure supernumer-
ariesmassed about singing their light lyrics and
their dark dirges with harmony and discord
down the hall. Very human it is, in its
abundance of humor —or tragedy, according
to the state of the liver.
Sixty-six portraits or, at least, canvases
are hung, which beats last year’s offering
bv ten. Some of them are incredibly bad,
and most of them are not good, but there is
enough excellent work about to sober the
laughter or dry the tears provoked by the
two or three dozen funny or dismal spec-
tacles. These last tempt a dissertation upon
the Critical and the Artistic faculty. Even
the most shocking aesthetic nightmares among
them were not made without a certain mea-
sure of the second faculty. The untalented
who laughs most at them has but to attempt
a portrait, and, if he is allowed to live, he
will appreciate that truth. Overlooking
these nightmares altogether, _ there is in the
show very bad work bearing well-known
names, and it is in regard to this that an
absence of the critical faculty is most appa-
rent. It is hard to understand why the
intelligence which went to the making did
not go also to pointing out the glaring de-
fects. But perhaps it is only laziness or. a
hunger for publicity that is at the back of
it all.
The job of the judges must have been one
of the easiest on record. John Longstaff’s
portrait of Dr. Alexander Deeper, formerly
warden of Trinity College, Melbourne Uni-
versity, is both a fine piece of work and the
JEAN FORBES ROBERTSON, who was a charming Peter Pan
in the London Christmas revival of the Barrie fantasy.
best. The doctor sits back in an armchair,
perfectly at ease, with his scarlet robes faced
in amber draped naturally and comfortably
about him. It is as much a brilliant piece
of posing as of painting. A good subject,
too, the doctor; a. noble head, without any
exaggeration of feature; grey hair, bushy
eyebrows, grey moustache; moving on _in
years, but still a quietly alert personality.
A finished work, worthy of its subject and
its prize.
To the sitter’s left is hung the W. B.
Melnnes portrait of Frank Tate, for years
Director of Education in Victoria. This
also is excellent. Its pose is not nearly so
happy as the other; standing with a hand
lightly gripping the front of a black gown.
There is effective color relief in the white
shirt front and tie and colored decorations,
and even the four white buttons on the white
vest are admirably painted. It is, how-
ever, the head upon which the artist has
spent himself. It is a bulging head of highly
pronounced features, contrasting remarkably
with the quiet, scholarly dignity of the other.
Here is a vigorous, dynamic force, with a
powerful forehead, hard eyes under bushy
brows, a big and strong nose, trim grey
moustache and a mouth curled up into some-
thing close to a sneer. It is a splendid
portrayal of character; but it is a portrait,
whereas the Longstaff entry is also a paint-
ing, and there’s a difference.
George Lambert’s still-life studies with
Julian Ashton perched among them is the
picture hung on the other side of the winner
—why, the judges possibly know. Lambert,
apparently, determined to reveal the artistic
tastes of his sitter so that those who ran
might see. He perched Mr. Ashton on a
chair, painted his head well, presented him
with various deformities, and so left him,
falling forward out of the picture, while lie
pursued his amiable theme. He put down in
front of the leaner a strip of table about
a foot wide and three feet or so long and
on it two decanters of different wine, some-
thing that is probably another decanter, one
glass (which suggests anything you like),
two or three books in a stack and one lying
open (no doubt at the sitter’s favorite pas-
sage), an oblong box (identity undecided),
a basket of beautifully-polished apples
and aesthetically curved bananas, and a
vase of perfectly-appointed flowers. In
the background, behold heavy curtains
draped over a massive gold picture-
frame. Then a cigar (a good one, too, by
the look of it) between the sitter’s fingers.
Surely Lambert has done his sitter a gross
injustice with all this ostentatious display.
There is good, even excellent, painting in
the thing, particularly in the still-life, but
does that condone the crude overstatement
and foolishness of it all? The figure, in
spite of its tilt to port and its deformities,
is striking. Take it away from its overdone
theme and it would do; wliat is more, it
would leave a fine and a not in any way com-
mon painting behind it. It is the figure and
the theme juxta-
posed that make the
work objectionable.
The thing seems
vulgar.
The test of bow
long one should
like to live with a
picture is not a
sound one to apply
to general portraits,
though well' enough
in pretty well all
other expression of
art. Applying it for
once - if you like,
merely by way of
proving a rule
there is one paint-
ing here that would
go home under this
Showman’s arm. It
is the Norman
Carter study of a
Miss Soord, a
cheery, full-lipped
girl, with a small
hat, dark marocain
dress, with triangle
of red pointing
down from the
throat and realistic
touches of fur. This
is not a large pic-
ture on the scale
of the others men-
tioned, but it is a
charming combina-
tion of happy treat-
ment and subject.
Of the others a few
that can be re-
called without
shuddering (or
smiling) are Long-
staff’s second entry,
a portrait of Theo-
dore Fink; Howard
Hinton, by Lam-
bert ; “Mother,” by
E. Ruckmaster; Mrs. Macdonald, by A. E.
Macdonald, and a self-portrait by Colin Cola-
ban. Mary Gilmore has been faithfully
painted by Adelaide Perry; N.S.W. Premier
Bavin very awkwardly by R. H. Jerrold-
Nathan; and Allan Wilkie very glaringly by
William Rowell. Wilkie, who, of course,
matters above the rest on this page, wears
the scarlet robes of Wolsey, and these, unre-
lieved by any other coloring in the picture,
give the joyous impression of the scarlet-
crowned head of Mr. Wilkie reposing
riotously , upon a near prospect of boiled
crayfish.
* * *
“The Girl Friend” returned to Sydney
last Wednesday and added to the Royal’s
varied memories a wavy melody and the
winsome, lissom
spray of femininity
that is Miss Annie
Croft. How light
and swaying she is
—like ripe corn in
the wind! She
gives an impression
of willowy frailty,
flitting about there.
And not only her
airy movement;
her voice, too, has
a faintness, a lilt-
in g nothingness
about it that is one
with her gossamer
personality. But
is she so fragile?
For his part, this
Showman is will-
ing to bet she can
do her daily dozen
with the best of
them. They are
like that, these
dance-sing-act play-
ers ; the eye sees a
wheatstraw, and
the heart, if it has
any experience, be-
lieves the vigor to
swing a dirty left.
Miss Croft, at
any rate, gives the
lie to appearance.
All the time you
feel that it is only
an electric fan
secreted in the
wings that is keep-
ing her going, and
yet when the play
is just about over
there she is, still
as fresh as a spray
of wattle, and as
lovely. And in this
cast she does
not soar alone.
There is Gus Bluett, with the mannerisms
his dad was kind enough not to patent, plus
some of his own. There is Leo Franklyn (a
funny one, Leo!), and Reg Sharland, and
Billie Lockwood, and Leslie Donaghey, and
Katie Towers, and Ivy Parker (taking the
place of May Beatty, who is, or was, ill),
and there are a dozen others. It is a twink-
ling galaxy, and with it there is a whole
stageful of a chorus so individually and
collectively charming that this Showman
would invite all of them to take coffee at
Mockbell’s if he thought they would come,
and if he thought they would drink coffee,
and if he thought they could pay for it (4d.
a cup avec biscuit).
Then there are the “sets,” things which
critics in these days never seem to see, but
over which another age used to wax lyrical.
This stern of a train that really moves off
the stage! This hotel booking-office! This
lift that goes up l This bridal suite! This
aspect of the Blue Mountains, or wherever
it is! How they all back up and support the
players! There you are, you forked masses
of animated greed who call yourselves critics
—exquisite and charming players, lovely sets,
fine producing! Now, what more do you
want?
The answer, ladies and gentlemen, is not a
lemon, but a play. This is no greed; it is
hunger. We want something that we can
get our teeth into. We are sick to death’s
door of claptrap, and pinchbeck, and balder-
dash, and pap. We do not want the dramatic
body of a “Hamlet” in our musicomedy, but we
should like more than the shadow of a plot, or,
if there is nothing doing outside the shadow
line, then we should like a new shadow.
Again, when a play begins, we want it to get
to its end by the shortest possible route con-
sistent with dramatic unity. We do not want
to go to within one minute of the obvious end
of our play and then be held up for half
an hour, suspended as it were between a
stage cuddling and the last tram, while you,
Miss Croft, dance, dance again and dance
once more, delightfully though you may do it;
or you, Mr. Bluett, crack 91 more jokes about
that bedroom ; or you, Mr., Mrs. or Miss Any-
one, do anything whatever. No, no. This we
do not want. It makes us suspect that your
play was not made on the piece-work system.
It makes us suggest that, charming as you all
are, happy as we are to be with you, your
play is spawn of that odd fish that hiber-
nates in Macquarie-street, and is called Par-
liament House, and is bred from Wind by
Vacuum.
# * #
Leon Gordon revived “White Cargo” for
the benefit of a packed King's (Melbourne)
on Saturday. If Gordon really wrote the
play, he wrote it out of a blank and beau-
tiful ignorance of the life of the white-man
in the tropics, though that isn’t to say that
he never studied it on the spot; only that
he misread it. Nevertheless, traveller’s fable
though it be, dramatically “White Cargo” is
first-class; and Witzel is Gordon’s very best
impersonation.
BILLIE LOCKWOOD, with the Annie Croft party at Sydney
Royal.
Granted the hypothesis (entirely false)
that climate invariably donkey-licks the white
man, all Gordon’s characters are plausible.
(Apropos the truth or otherwise of the above
hypothesis, Mr. Gordon might explain why
the Federated Malay States lias one of the
finest railway systems and the best roads
in the world, and why it is safer for a white
woman to have a baby in Manila than in
Melbourne.) Still, in this case the plays
the thing, and this play is good—infernally
good. The humor in it springs not out of
tedious wisecracking, but from the spectacle
of Fate playing the grim goat with feeble
and flatulent humanity. C. M. Hallard pre-
sents a new doctor, and it is a beautiful bit
of realism by a stage portrait-painter sen-
sitive to the very finest shades of tpnal
relationship. Frank Bradley’s Ashley is a
sound study in advanced alcoholics. John
D’Arcy has the difficult task of reducing
Langford by the quick degrees required in
stage portrayals from a sanitary, right-
thinking mother’s darling into an unwashed
degenerate lusting after native womanflesh ;
he does it admirably. Tondeleyo, “the Lure
Eternal” (not to put it too biologically),
is the least convincing character. May Col-
lins has this critic’s sympathy. B. N. Lewin’s
Missionai’y deserves Christian burial.
# # *
From a patriotic standpoint the most
meritorious show in Melbourne is that pro-
vided at the Bijou by the refined Stiffy and
his band of cultured wits. Crude as it is,
it has this advantage over “The Desert
Song,” “Rio Rita” and suchlike expensive
importations, that it is at least an attempt
—and sometimes a very shrewd attempt—of
a native-born to cast an eye on the Aus-
tralian scene and then fetch wliat has been
seen on to the stage. There is a rich low
humor about the sketch of the man who has
come about his pension and he hasn’t re-
ceived anything for three years and the
wife is expecting another. It gets an imme-
diate response from all those in the audience
who have had dealings with Government
departments —and that includes the lot.
* * #
This week Sydney Tivoli is relying chiefly
upon a bunch of artists who are alleged to
have cut their teeth on six-shooters and
maple saplings in the Canadian backblocks.
They’re a pretty versatile crew considering
their upbringing; they play sundry musical
instruments, dance, twirl ropes and crack
whips as if they had been on the stage all
their lives —a sort of triumph of mind over
environment.


INSURE WITH THE
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co:, Ltd.,
An Australian Company—
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
16 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Manager.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
ABBOT FILTERS
PRESSURE AND DRIP.
THE
AUSTRALIAN
XOflflV
filter
Cylinder
i
Uii
F I
Obtainable at All Stores.
T TNFILTERED WATER
kJ contains innumerable
noxious germs, besides being
discolored and unpleasant to
drink.
To ensure purity see that
all cylinders (the filtering
medium) are branded
“Abbot.” The “Abbot” is
approved by all Boards of
Health.
Manufactured only by
GOTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney.
INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency.
Dividends.
5 u.c. Written
Profit. Prefs. Ordinary. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1918. .184,177 49,460 8 p.c. =66,745 30,000 674,106
1919. .163,228 49,730 8 „ ~ 75,858 10,000 701,746
1920. .185,338 50,000 6i „ ~ 65,000 48,593 723,491
Loss.
1921.. 16,186 50,000 4 „ ~ 40,000 617,305
1922.. 28,857 50,000 2 ~,, 20,000 518,448
Profit.
1923.. 92,583 50,000 4 „ ~40,000 521,031
1924. .126,725 50,000 6 „ ~ 60,000 10,000 527,756
1925.. 141.890.50,000 7 „ ~ 70,000 10,000 539,646
1926. .135,640 50,000 7 „ ~70,000 10,000 545,286
, —Prefs.— v Ords.
p.c. p.c. p.c.
1927. .148,992 5 6* 7$ = 136,681 10,000 547,697
1928. .176,099 6 61 8 ~162,600 10,000 551,196
The recent progress of this mostly British
co., which is in the pastoral-finance and
agency business in Australia and Maoriland,
is beginning to attract attention. After
allowing for the pref. requirements (£82,500)
the balance of last year’s net profit was
9.3 p.c. on the ordinary capital compared
with 8.7. 8.5, 9.1, 7.6 and 4.2 p.c. back to
1923. Over the same period the div. has
climbed from 4 p.c. to 8 p.c., and £32,748
has been added to visible reserves, making
them £551,196 at June 30 last.
Thus far nothing attractive has been
shown in the way of profits. But to get
the business into proper perspective it is
necessary to remember that the co., which
carried on a big far-back squatting business
in its early days, looked like a hopeless
wreck after the cyclone of the ’nineties.
This left it with an inherent weakness from
which recovery has been a long and gradual
process. As values recovered the old proper-
ties, including foreclosures, were marketed
at handsome profits on their written-down
book values. Thus reserves began to pile
np, though mostly the co. got out a bit too
soon.
As the position improved more share capi-
tal was got in. In 1912 the pahl-up total
on the register was a mere £135.395; at
June 30 last it had grown to £2,500,000, of
which £1,500,000 was in prefs.: two-thirds
of them carry 5 p.c. and the other third
p.c. This latter half-million was got in
during 1927, mostly to finance expansion of
the business in Australia. In addition there
is £1,700,000 of 4 p.c. mortgage debenture
stock. Thus of £4,200,000 of share and
debenture money £3.200.000 is costing the
co. only 4.7 p.c. Provided asset values, of
which over 67 p.c. are advances, are not
weak, the co. now appears to be well equipped
to make further progress.
The co., which is the third biggest seller
of the Australasian wool clip, has been giv-
ing a lot of attention to dairy produce of
late. Partly because of that, and largely
because of an all-round increase, in prices,
especially in Maoriland, earnings have
stepped along nicely, as the next comparison
shows:—
1923 1927 1928.
Gross profit .. .. £611,879 £603,617 £660,454
Management exes. .. 305,363 326,104 334,098
Taxation 45,493 50,421 72,257
Debenture interest .. 68,000 68,000 68,000
Gross profits are written into the sheet after
provision has been made for bad and doubt-
ful debts and contingencies; obviously much
depends upon whether the allowances prove
to be adequate. The slump in values fol-
lowing the post-war boom resulted in a heavy
writing-down of the co.’s Maoriland securi-
ties —partly out of inner reserves—and
losses showed up in 1921 and 1922. An
encouraging feature of recent figures is the
tight hold the management is keeping on
exes.
Balance-sheet figures continue to show im-
provement :
1922. 1927. 1928.
Liabilities other than
debentures.. .. £690,688 £1,054,138 £1,218,916
Advances .. .. 3,000,361 4,055,204 4,283,645
Property .. .. 4,617 859 645
Premises .. .. 280,290 369,679 342,319
Merchandise.. .. 144,255 225,607 224,195
Shares in other cos. 36,873 193,882 180,239
Cash and public secu-
rities .. .. 1,487,740 1,038,286 1,014,170
The financial position is very solid. The
more-or-less liquid surplus (£4,303,094) im-
proved £38,235 last year. The increase of
£164,778 in the debt was principally balances
due to clients on account of consignments.
During the term some of the low interest-
bearing securities were sold and the money
lent to clients —advances moved up £228,441.
The drop of £27,360 in the book value of
premises is partly the result of a small pro-
perty sale and partly the result of writing-
down, including £lO,OOO .visibly struck off.
Although the current term opened well,
Australian prospects lost some of their
brightness as the season advanced. Wool
prices are below the previous year’s levels,
and rain is badly wanted in the dairying and
some of the pastoral districts, especially in
N. S. Wales. In Maoriland another good
season is more than half-way through.
The co.’s stocks are listed on Australian
’Changes, but business is mostly confined to
Maoriland. A year ago £94 10s. was paid
for the ord. stock, now £llB is offered;
sellers ask £l2O. At the middle price tho
return is 6.7 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
The cover amounts to £255 p.c. in net tan-
gibles. For the 5 p.c. prefs.. which have a
net tangible backing of £305 p.c., £S2 10s.
is paid, giving a return of approximately
6 p.c.. The 6i per cents, are held chiefly in
London.
Queensland Probate Insurance Co.
Ordinary Life Department.
Excess
Sept., Income. Claims. Exes. Income. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Promoters’ shares, preliminary exes., etc. 26,385
1923.. 7,319 Nil 12,888 31,954
Added establishment account, £10,149.. 42,103
1924.. 8,434 600 8,530 42,799
Added establishment account, £9892.. 62,691
1925.. 15,036 19 13,924 1093 51,593
Added establishment account, £14,386.. 65,984
1926.. 22,027 3909 15,211 2007 63,077
Added establishment account, £3452.. 66,529
1927.. 27,333 1394 19,807 6132 60,397
Added establishment account, £lBO.. 60,577
Transfer from Accident Dept., £3000.. 57,577
1928.. 38,536 2461 28,872 7213 50,864
Things did not move right at the beginning.
The board blamed the management and there
was a change in the control. That was in
1924. Meanwhile £42,799 of the £57,645 of
capital had been eaten up by the promoter’s
consideration (£15,000 in shares) and estab-
lishment charges of one kind and another, in-
cluding the cost of establishing branches at
Sydney and Perth. Scarcely had the co.’s
office at the latter centre been opened than it
was closed, and the few policies that had been
written there were sold. Since then the busi-
ness has stepped along briskly. During its
six years of policy writing the co. has put
£1,769,546 of business on the books and built
up an income of £38,536, of which £5007 was
from interest, etc., and the balance premiums,
for the 12 months to Sept. Jast. That is
apart from Accident business. Also the mar-
gin between income and outgo, though still
far too slender to be profitable, is slowly
widening. Of last year’s income exes, took
74.9 p.c. compared with 72.4, 69, 92.6 and
101 p.c. back to 1924. The increase in the
ratios for 1927 and 1928 is due mainly to the
bigger volume of new business written.
The expansion visible in the first table
needs to be considered in relation to these
figures:—
1924. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Policies .. 325 608 658 894
Assuring .. £105,045 £266,015 £322,900 £501,073
First premiums 4,121 8,352 8,638 13,488
Renewal
premiums .. 3,560 10,522 13,885 20,041
Tho average amount per policy last year was
£560 compared with £490, £437 and £406 in
the three preceding years. The average pre-
mium per cent, was £3 15s. Id. as against
£3 14s. 6d. and £3 10s. lOd. in 1927 and
1926 respectively—a suggestion that a trifle
more endowment business is being written
these days. Of the business in force at the
close of accounts in 1927 whole-of-life poli-
cies accounted for 77 p.c.; and that is satis-
factory. The position in respect of lapses,
usually a fruitful source of waste, has hither-
to been unsatisfactory. Last year’s figures
show a marked improvement; but that was
partly due to renewals on policies taken over
from the Empire life and General, whose
small life and accident business in Queens-
land and Victoria was bought during the
year. Excluding the premiums thus received
renewals last year are said to have been 80
p.c.; the figure was 75 p.c. two years earlier.
The co., as its name indicates, specialises
in probate insurance, a form of policy-writing
in which a high percentage of renewals can
usually be looked for. But competition is
keen, and probate premium rates in most
cases are much lower than those on ordinary
whole-of-life-with-profits policies. That, of
course, makes it expensive business to write.
Assuming that new business is 10 times more
costly than renewals, then last year’s first
premiums were gathered at a cost of 186 p.c.
compared with 197, 161, 146 and 193 p.c.
back to 1924. The drop of 11 p.c. in last
year’s cost ratio was, no doubt, largely due
to the purchase of the Empire co.’s business.
The biggest item in the bill, commissions, etc.,
was £13.542 as against £8434 in 1927. Obvi-
ously deep cuts need to be made in exes, be-
fore anything worth while in the way of pro-
fits is likely to show up.
At the close of accounts in 1927 actuary
E. S. Wolfenden made a valuation of the
liabilities under policies. Ilis figures were
not sent out with the last sheet, but appa-
rently the life fund was £6727 short of the
mark, so that amount was added to it and
also to the establishment account. Thus,
after taking into account the year’s excess
of income over outgo (£7213), the fund
had grown to £24,072 at Sept. 30. At the
same date the establishment account figured
at £74.436; that was after it had been
written down £3OOO, for which sum reserves
in the accident branch were drawn upon.
To represent the liability to policy-holders
and £153,007 of shareholders money there
were net tangible assets, mostly in good
quality securities, amounting to £107,036
when the books were last ruled off. Here is
the position in detail:—
1923. 1927. 1928.
Government securities.. £13,681 £54,711 £71,803
Mortgages, etc. .. 21,120 14,334
Loans on policies .. 306 788
Book debts .. .. 6,751 9,488 12,683
Cash .. 1,746 6,590 2,551
Equipment, etc. .. 3,181 6,536 6,213
Total tangible assets .. £25,359 £97,751 £108,372
Liabilities . . . . 2,932 1,644 1,336
Net tangible assets .. £22,427 £96,107 £107,036
Life fund .. .. Nil 10,132 24,072
Paid capital .. .. 54,326 152,375 153,007
Thus after deducting the life fund share-
holders could see, for every £1 of capital,
10s. lOd. in tangible form.v
Here is a view of the progress in the
accident department:—
Accident Department.
Re-
Sept., Income. Claims. Exes. Surplud. serves.
1923.. 163 10 98 55 55
1924.. 119 33 64 22 77
1925.. 96 15 63 28 105
1926.. 1,236 111 306 819 924
1927.. 5,853 1027 1621 3205 4129
Written off establishment account, £3000.. 1129
1928.. 11,528 4371 3894 3263 4392
The leap in the figures during the last three
yenrs is mainly the result of workers’ com-
pensation business in N. S. Wales. The
branch promises to be a handy feeder.
The co. is struggling hard to establish
itself upon a solid basis, and its prospects
are far from discouraging. Much depends
upon the extent to which the management
succeeds in cutting costs.
Warburton, Franki, Ltd. (Sydney).
Net Dividends To Re-
Profit. All Shares. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 3,857 8 p.c. = 2880. 977 717
Reserves.
1925.. 4,312 8 „ „ 2880 1,432 715
Assets revalued; goodwill (£12,677)
written off and general reserve added
to by £3646 17,038
1926.. 6,513 10 p.c. = 3600 2,913 19,951
Unexplained reduction in reserves, £1707.. 18,244
1927.. 15,338 10 p.c. = 3600 11,738 29,982
Reserves capitalised, £9OOO .. .. 20,982
1928.. 15,496 12J p.c. = 6390 9,106 30,088
This co. set up in the electrical and mechani-
cal engineering line in Sydney about 18
years ago. At first attention was given
almost exclusively to the electrical part of
the business—the manufacturing side. Later
activities were extended to Melnnurne, whore
a subsidiary, Warburton, Franki (Mel-
bourne), Ltd., was formed. But there was
not a great deal in the business; after 10
years of trading only £3025 of reserves had
been accumulated to offset £OOOO of goodwill.
In 1919 the ords. were passed over, and for
the next five or six years the business moved
along quietly, paying 7 p.c. and then 8 p.c.
As a way out of the difficulties which beset
the trade after the war the co. changed the
character of its business from a manufactur-
ing to mainly a merchandising concern.
Meanwhile the management set to work to
develop specialty lines, and to weed out
others that were not paying their way. The
co. secured the agency for Philip’s electric
lamps and for an electric-refrigerator and
country-house lighting system, two of Gen-
eral Motors’ products. Helped by good sea-
sons and a sudden demand for electric refri-
gerators, due partly to competition in the
flat business, profits, which were improving
nicely, took a leap in 1927, reaching a juicy
42. G p.c. on the £36.000 of paid capital, com-
pared with 15.3, 11.9, 10.7 and 7.4 p.c. in
the four preceding years. The 10 pc. div.
wag sweetened with £9OOO of bonus scrip, one
for four, and half-way through the last term
15,000 ords. were issued at par. .
This made paid capital £59,914 in 20.000
prefs. and 40.000 ords. at September 30,
1928. The £15,49G netted for the 12 months
to that date was 30.3 p.c. on average capital,
and after paying an all-round 12£ p.c. the
balance of the year’s declared profit advanced
the lay-by to £30,088, approximately 10s.
per share. Goodwill (£12,677) was struck
out of the accounts in 1925. To do this the
freehold, previously in at £15.926, was writ-
ten up £14,874, and £l4OO-ndd was similarly
added to the book value of investments. The
£3646 that thus remained was added to the
general reserve.
The recent rapid growth of the business
has been financed for the most part on bor-
rowed money. This comparison of balance-
sheet figures shows the position:
1924. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital .. £36,000 £36,000 £36,000 £59,914
Liabilities .. 42,712 49,608 89,837 76,824
Freeholds, etc. .. 15,926 1„„ „
Plant, etc. . . 3,250 ) **2,571 33,003 35,147
Stocks, etc. .. 32,906 34,171 66,795 50,216
Book debts . . 16,881 28,182 39,024 57,260
Investments, cash,
etc 11,212 12,796 28,296 28,296
Stocks and. works in progress (£50,216)
were reduced £6579 last year. This and the
new capital that came in and the year’s
surplus earnings enabled the board to clip
£13,013 off the debt, which is still very
heavy, and carry an extra £18,235 of book
debts. Thus the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£30,652), excluding investments, was
£24,670 stronger than at the previous
balance.
Of the £28,296 of investments £10,500 is
on mortgage with Warburton, Franki (Bris-
bane), Ltd., which was formed in 1926, and
in which this co. holds 5000 fully-paid £1
shares; the other £12,796, or all but a trifle
of it, represents the holding in the Melbourne
subsidiary, which pays a steady 10 p.c.
Assets are said to be conservatively valued,
and much depends upon that and upon the
terms of the agency agreements, concerning
which nothing has been made public. Given
normal conditions, the business might be
expected to further expand and to win good
returns. But how long the present high
rate of earnings is likely to continue will
depend partly upon the sustained popularity
of the chief profit-earning lines, and the
absence of keen competition and consequent
price-cutting.
At the moment chief interest in the scrip
centres in a prospective new share issue,
details of which are expected next month.
The ords., for which the market paid 31s.
a month ago, are now priced at 345. At
that figure a par issue in the proportion of
one for two would make the return 8.5 p.c.
on a p.c. div. basis. The prefs. seldom
appear on the market. They carry a cumu-
lative 7 p.c., and advance with the ords. in
any distribution beyond that rate. Also they
have priority as to capital and share in sur-
plus assets.
Warrnambool Woollen Mill Co. (Vic.).
To Be- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 9,198 12 p.c.= 6,078 8,125 18,456
1919.. 6,174 12 „ „ 7,114 17,516
Premiums on new shares 9,163 26,679
1920.. 14,531 12 p.c.= 8,669 5,862 32,541
Premiums on new shares 2,504 35,046
1921.. 33,521 18 p.c.= 15,389 18,132 53,177
Premiums on new shares 8,333 61,510
1922.. 18,716 15 p.c.= 14,696 2,299 65,531
Written off, £lO,OOO .. .. 56,531
1823.. 15,213 12 p.c.= 16,417 64,327
Premiums on new shares 2,144 66,471
Pref. Ord.
1924.. 6,867 5 p.c. 4 p.c. = 6,206 661 67,182
Loss.
1925.. 20,308 6 „ Nil 1,032 86,792
Profit.
1926.. 9,414 5 „21 p.c. = 4,266 5,148 40,940
1927.. 16,368 7 „ 7 „ „ 10,500 5,868 46,808
1928.. 666 6 „ Nil 1,032 46,442
Four years ago stocks were the hurdle at
which profits fell; but after some heavy
writing down, involving a loss of £20,308,
the business began to look healthy again.
Then last year there was a sudden relapse.
Gross profits fell away £17,225; exes.
(£24,461), including £2761 written off plant,
etc., were only £1523 lighter. Thus the
backslide in the net result was £15,702, and
the ords., which have averaged only 2.7 p.c.
during the last five years, were passed
over and reserves were dipped into for a
few hundred pounds to give the prefs. their
minimum 5 p.c. The board blames chiefly
the rise in the price of wool; this resulted
in a heavy loss on a large contract which
was secured on a small profit margin in
1927. Also earnings! were . affected by the
general trade depression, which slowed down
most of Australia’s' textile plants last year.
Then the new general manager, who
took over half-way through the term, declined
to accept the values placed on stocks at the
previous balance, so a cut had to be made
there.
The current year’s results will largely
depend upon whether stock values have Been
cut back sufficiently to provide cover for
any fluctuations in the price of the staple
and manufactured goods. Compared with
the previous balance raw materials (£24,137)
were down £4478, and manufactured S°£,ds,
etc. (£37,027), were £7055 lighter. The
unsold portion of the manufactured stocks
is claimed to be small and safely valued.
Another factor affecting the co.’s profits is
heavy transport and handling charges. These,
the chairman says, run the co. into £15,000
p.a. more than if the mills were situated
at Geelong or Melbourne.
The co. made a sound and promising start
nearly 20 years ago, and, under the protec-
tion the war gave, the business bounded
ahead. Good divs. were paid, the average
being 10.6 p.c. for the 10 years to 1923.
During the same period over £120,000 was
added to paid capital, making it £150.000.
at which figure it still stands. At Sept. 30


Glorious Garie BeacH!
SYDNEY’S COMING PLEASURE GROUND!
Where Prosperity, Peace and
Pleasure await the Man of Vision!
THE PROVISIONAL BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir A. J. GOULD, K. 8., V.D.,
Solicitor,
Biekard House, 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Dr. R. C. WITHINGTON, M. 8., Ch.B.,
12 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
E. 11. WADDY, Esquire,
Company Director,
Orange, N.S.W.
H. D. VAUTIN, Esquire, F.C.I.S. (Eng.), F.0.A.A.,
Chartered Secretary,
89 Cowper Street, Randwick, N.S.W.
W. D. CRIDLAND, Esquire, L.S.,
Surveyor,
10 Barrack Street, Sydney.
B. W. REUSCH, Esquire, F. 1.1.5.,
Incorporated Secretary,
Ocean House, Martin Place, Sydney.
BANKERS:
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
SOLICITORS:
Messrs. GOULD & SHAW,
Rickard House, 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
AUDITORS:
Messrs. lIUNGERFORD, SPOONER & CO.,
Public Accountants,
Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BROKERS:
Messrs. ALBAN GEE & CO.,
(Members Sydney Stock Exchange),
Vickery Chambers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SECRETARY (pro tem.) AND OFFICE:
E. G. HENDERSON, Esq., A.C.I.S. (Eng.),
Chartered Secretary,
34 Mar-tin Place, Sydney,
SEND THIS COUPON FOR COPY
OF PROSPECTUS
The Promoters,
Garie Estate (National Park)
Development Company, Limited,
Box 3107 P, G.P.0., Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —Please forward to me a copy
of the Prospectus of the company.
Name
Address • •
DO YOU KNOW NATIONAL PARK? IT IS THE MOST GLORIOUS AND PICTURESQUE
HOLIDAY RESORT IN THE COMMONWEALTH.
GARIE BEACH ADJOINS THE NORTHERN SIDE OF THE WONDERFUL SUB-DIVISIONAL
PROPOSITION REFERRED TO IN THE PROSPECTUS HEREINAFTER MENTIONED.
READ THE OPINIONS OF PROMINENT MEN, and then act quickly!
Yours for the asking! A copy of the complete illustrated Prospectus of “GARIE (NATIONAL PARK) DEVELOP-
MENT COMPANY LIMITED.” (To be incorporated in New South Wales under Companies Act 1899.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £75,000
of which 55,000 contributing shares are now available for public subscription, payable 5/- per share on application and 3/-
per share on allotment. The balance may be called up, if required, as more particularly set out in the prospectus, in
instalments not exceeding 2/- per share, at intervals of not less than one calendar month.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY
It is (inter alia) the object of the proposed company to make available to the discriminating Public this Surfers and Golfers
Paradise, situated amidst delightful scenery, the Real Estate portion of which contains approximately 38,100 selling feet
of land. It offers, unquestionably, one of the finest gilt-edged investments of recent years—an investment from which the
speculative factor is practically eliminated.
Just imagine a potentially great residential golfing, surfing and tourist resort only 90 minutes’ car run from Sydney. Also
bear in mind that this resort is immediately adjacent to New South Wales’ great National Park, and you will realise the
wonderful possibilities of development which are ahead of this company, whose assets must constantly appreciate m va ue
to the definite benefit of its shareholders.
EXTRACTS FROM EXPERTS’ OPINIONS CONTAINED IN THE PROSPECTUS
“It seems a marvel that so beautiful a spot has hitherto remained in absolutely its natural state.”
WRIGHT & APPERLEY, Architects,
3 Spring Street, Sydney.
“I know of no other place in Australia which compares with this wonderful spot for natural' beauty and accessibility. It is
the onlv place where one can enjoy the surf in conjunction with golf.” A ™ atm/
CAKJN hjVjrliii OIjAKIV,
Royal Sydney Golf Club.
“There is at present ample scope for the development of a new seaside resort such as GARIE, for which we would expect
a strong demand when made available to the public. The land is ADMIRABLY SITUATED FOR A-HIGH-GLASS
SEASIDE SUBDIVISION, being within easy driving distance of SYDNEY, SUTHERLAND and HEATHCOIE.
BLOOMFIELDS, LIMITED
(Real Estate Specialists),
T~lalfrm TTmisp Pitt Street,. Svdnev.
(
rA
a
M
/
l ' f
part
h J ]///)/ 11
MWlfl
Easier! Quicker!!
The old methods of post-hole digging
are laborious—and costly.
The SEYMOUR POST-HOLE
DIGGER is made solely for the pur-
pose of speeding up the digging of
post-holes.
Owing to its peculiar construction it
is only necessary to lean on the handles
and turn the Digger.
The SEYMOUR bores its way into any
soil quickly and easily.
This is one of the tools that every man
on the land should have.
It pays for itself on the first few holes.
In the following sizes:—
Size .3 4 5 6 7 in.
Price: 9/6 9/6 9/6 9/6 10/3
Size 8 9 10 in.
Price 11/3 12/6 13/-
c
Proprietaru limited
51-65 Bathurst Street, Sydney. 582-592 Collins Street, Melbourne.
116-130 Weymouth Street, Adelaide.
ROMA AND LONGREACH OIL WELLS LTD.
(To be registered under the Companies Acts 1863-1918 .)
CAPITAL £200,000.
(Divided into 400,006 shares of 10/- each.)
100,000 Ordinary Contributing Shares offered for public sub-
scription, payable 1/- on application, 1/- on allotment,
and the balance to be paid in calls as and when required,
not to exceed 1 /- per share per month.
This Company has secured petroleum prospecting
permits both at Roma and Longreach, and the develop-
ments in both these fields are such that it is well worth
the investor’s while to secure shares in such a company.
Mr. E. C. Saint Smith, F.S.T.C., ex-Queensland Govt.
Geologist, wired from Longreach, on November 12, as
follows: —
“Your permit number 282 is situated on southern
limb of Longreach regional anticline, and therefore favor-
able, but recommend preliminary pitting along northern
section to enable selection being made for most suitable
bore site.”
SEND FOR PROSPECTUS.
To T. H. Ludgate, F.I.A., F.I.I.S.,
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
Please forward me a Prospectus to
Name
Address


Don’t Lose
Your Money!
MORE THAN HALF
OF ALL REGISTERED
COMPANIES FAIL.
<r
If you invest anything
at all you can’t afford
to be without
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
JANUARY NUMBER NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or “Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock 4- GF 4- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. — Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
Important points in the medium to be employed
in any water-supply system are maintenance of full
capacity flow, cleanliness and economy in installa-
tion and upkeep. Pioneer Wood Pipe, being un-
affected by corrosion, rust or fungus growth, gives
continual maximum delivery with consistent purity
of its contents. Its low cost and absence of heavy
maintenance charges are features of Pioneer economy.
Write for illustrated book. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree
Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; and at Footscray,
Victoria. — Advt.
-.1: * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.i.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Risk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Bafety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
aauiAin (vnvsisnv w w
saiauavH
rrhp^^^yp^^^j^p^^p(||jini^e^Crushing^t ac hiner3 Woiks in Austial' _
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS— GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLAN .
Hadlields’ Manganese Steel Wearins Parts for all makes o rus ers.
Works and \
Foundries j
Alexandria, Svdney, N.S.W.
Bassendean, Berth, W.A.
Branch [
. Office J
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
i T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
Make the Grosvenor
youy Adelaide Home
\rV '\
ft.
Over 300 taste-
fully furnished
rooms, spacious
writing room,
cheerful lounge,
beautiful dining
hall, perfect
cuisine; every
attention. Ade-
laide’s largest,
most modern
hotel. Tariff
from £3 10/-
weekly.
Write for infor-
mation booklet.
S‘GROSVENOR
p Finest Unlicensed UtoteL
OjJjxßailway^NvNorfhTTerrace^^^^^^^^^^
last capital had the assistance of £46.442
of reserves, but since these are all invested
in the business results depend upon the ex-
tent to which plant can be kept profitably
employed. At the close of last accounts
plant stood in the books at £124,627; the
only visible allowance made for depreciation
during the year was the £2761 mentioned
above, as against £4500 in the previous term,
and most of the worsted section —it repre-
sents about one-half of the total —was bought
when textile machinery was bringing high
prices. Much depends upon whether the
allowances made are sufficient.
Here is a comparison of balance-sheet
figures:—
1924. 1927. 1928.
Capital £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. .. 91,140 49,705 32,423
Freehold and buildings 34,408 36,652 36,727
Plant and machinery .. 126,938 123,750 124,627
Stock 127,678 72,696 61,163
Sundry debtors .. 10,654 22,962 11,417
Other assets . . .. 4,901 4,889 4,466
During the year £14,759 was clipped oft
the overdraft. (£.29,305) and £2493 off the
amount coming to sundry creditors (£3118).
Book debts, down £11,545, reflect the year’s
difficult trading. The more or less liquid
surplus (£44,623), including stocks, was
£6219 lighter than at the previous balance.
The outlook for the current year is not
promising. Competition is very keen and
the market, especially on the Avoollen side, is
well supplied. Hence forward contracts are
hard to get, buyers preferring to let the
mills build up stocks and take the risk.
The market, unattracted by the position
and the co.’s recent performances, values
the ords. at 13s. The prefs.—there are
20,646 of them—seldom appear on ’Change.
They carry a cumulative 5 p.c., advance with
the ords. in any distribution beyond that
rate, have priority as to capital and share
in surplus assets. The backing for all shares
was 265. 2d. in net tangibles at September 30.
Australian Mont de Piete (Melb.).
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£/ £ £ &
1918.. 4005 124 p.c. = 1614 2391 12,487
1919.. 4380 15 ~ „ 1937 2443 14,930
1920.. 6319 15 „ „ 1937 4382 19,312
Transferred to capital, £18,324.. 988
1921.. 4995 7i p.c. 2341 2654 3,642
1922.. 3477 10 „ „ 3121 856 3,998
1923.. 3348 10 „ „ 3296 52 4,050
Ket Depreciation Fund, £719 .. 4,769
1924.. 4346 10 p.c. = 3934 412 5,181
Property reserve, £9907 .. 15,088
1925.. 4580 10 p.c.= 3996 584 15,672
1926.. 5808 12£ ~ „ 4995 813 16,485
1927.. 5504 12! „ „ 4995 609 16,994
1928.. 5626 12* „ „ 4995 631 17,625
The table opens at the most prosperous
period in the co.’s 47-year history. In 1920,
at the peak of the post-war extravagance and
high-money rates, 49 p.c. was netted on the
£12,886 of paid capital. Then £18,324 of
laid-by profit was capitalised; another £8750
has since been paid in cash, making paid
capital £39,960 at Oct. 31 last. There was
then another £14,903 at call. Incidentally,
the capitalisation was in part a restoration
of a writing-off, due to the peculation of
employees nearly 20 years earlier.
During the slump which followed the post-
war boom the co.’s lending connections, and
therefore profits, shrank. But there has been
a steady growth in the business over the
last five years, due mainly to the purchase
of several well-established money-lending
concerns. And during the last three years
shareholders have had 12| p.c., though there
has been very little to spare. Indeed, too
little to make the present div. look secure.
But things are improving. Last year’s £5626
of profit was 14 p.c. on paid capital com-
pared with 13.7, 14.5, 11.4, 11 and 10.1 p.c.
back to 1923.
One of the features of the co.’s activities
has been the board’s policy of property pur-
chase. What has been done in this and other
ways is visible in the next comparison of
balance-sheet figures:—
1915. 1925. 1927. 1928.
Deposits .. .. £18,949 £14,420 £17,070 £19,170
Mortgages.. .. 25,950 34,150 32,150
Other liabilities .. 3,007 8,698 7,633 4,597
Total liabilities £21,956 £49,068 £58,853 £55,917
Advances, stocks, etc. 37,307 39,828 57,021 55,723
Freeholds, etc. .. 4,521 45,229 45,745 45,764
Liquid assets .. 1,397 21,642 15,539 15,022
Of recent years the expansion of the co.’s
lending connections has been financed mostly
out of funds attracted on fixed deposit. Alto-
gether there was 19s. sd. of outside money
at risk in. the business for every £1 owned
by shareholders when the books were last
ruled off. That might be good policy while
money is easy and property values on the
increase, as illustrated by the nice profit on
the 1924 property sale; but when mortgages
and deposits are not so easily got, it may
mean a struggle to keep the dividend steady.
Another factor likely to affect earnings is
the future course of rental values.
The market sums up the risks by offering
245. 3d. for the pound, shares paid to 17s.
6d. At that price the return is 9 p.c. on a
12| p.c. div. basis. The backing amounts
to 28s. lOd. in net tangibles for each £1 of
paid capital at October 31.
Oil from Coal.
Within the past four years processes have
been evolved which may put an entirely dif-
ferent value on our bituminous coals. The
waste attached to the older methods of utilis-
ing these is gradually giving place to more
modern and scientific treatment, thanks
largely to German chemists. It is not too
much to say that with hydrogenation and
high- and low-temperature carbonisation of
our bituminous coals, and possibly of our
brown coals also, we shall get in practice
what four years ago was said to be impos-
sible. One hydrogenation process has got
the amazing result of 140 gallons of oil per
ton of bituminous coal, with the coke and tar
of some additional value.
It can now be said definitely that one
great Continental group, known as the 1.G.,
with a capital equivalent to over £50,000,000
and with half a million employees, has eyes
on Australian coal deposits. It has indeed
become so attracted that one of its most
trusted engineers has visited Australia in
recent months and examined carefully what
is probably the largest single area of bitu-
minous coals in the world. This engineer
is now on his return journey to Europe with
more than a favorable impression of our de-
posits.
One of the dangers attending the opera-
tions of these new processes is the risk
of incompetent men being sent to undertake
the management. One of the outstanding
disasters in this respect was the Common-
monwealth Oil Corporation, which tried the
impossible job of extracting profits from a
seam of shale 18 inches to 20 inches thick,
yielding about 80 gallons to the ton, to get
which not less than a quarter of a million
was wasted in building an impracticable
railway and other works.
Already one of the low-temperature car-
bonisation processes has made an average
profit for the past four years of about
£400,000, and, showing the progressive char-
acter of the business, the profit from last
year’s trading is expected to exceed £600,000.
A bonus of about threepence per gallon is
payable by the Federal Government on the
production of oil from shale, so it is fair
to assume the same, bonus or bounty will be
paid on oil from coal.
If the pioneers in the new industry are
capable and careful a large and profitable
industry seems fairly certain. The world s
demand for motor spirit is increasing at a
rapid rate, and it is urgent to tap all possible
sources of supply. Moreover, oil from coal
will be one of the factors to save our de-
pressed coal industry.
Chief-pilot Mustard, of New Guinea Air-
ways, is retiring for health reasons. A. S.
Cross, his chief assistant, succeeds him.
Guinea Gold’s operations will not be affected :
it has always had a qualified engineer in
charge of its mining work.
* * * *
The Whitworth Finance and Mining Cor-
poration, Ltd., recently bought the Koor-
boora and Gurrumba groups, and the Gover-
nor Norman and Vulcan mines—the pick of
North Queensland’s established tin-shows.
With tin at £2OO it is estimated that pro-
duction will be worth £135,000 p.a. at an
early date, the figure increasing to 1282,UU0
p.a. within 4 years. The Whitworth Cor-
poration is a large holder of mining proper-
ties of various types in Alaska, South Africa
and elsewhere. It registered as a private
co. in London in 1927, with a capital of
£lOO,OOO, later increased to £350,000.
* * * *
The sustained improvement in the copper
market has turned Adelaide eyes again to-
wards the old Moonta and Wallaroo, which
has been closed down for four years. The
optimists draw hope from the knowledge that
nearly three-quarters of the world’s supply
comes from ore averaging below li p.c.
copper. The Miami Copper Co. of the U.S.A.
is an example of what modern methods on
a large scale can do. This co. works stuff
that last year yielded only .7s. 2d. per ton.
Nevertheless, operating profits of Is. 3-£d. per
ton were made on the 4,116,300 short tons
treated, and £230,600 was paid in dividenus.
The average yield was only 12.881 b. of copper
per ton treated.
* * * *
Golden Horseshoe (W.A.) intends to
bring its accounts up to the end of 1928.
and hold the adjourned general meeting as
soon as possible. A report by C. Gibson
confirms manager Sutherland’s opinion that
the 481,887 tons of 7.69 dwt. developed ore
reserves are not payable under existing con-
ditions, and that the future depends upon
further development. Accumulated tailings
worth retreatment are estimated at over
1 900 000 tons of an average assay value of
8s 3d The situation of these dumps lends
itself to large-scale and economical treat-
ment and on the basis of a plant treating
35 000 or 40,000 tons a month it is esti-
mated that a 50 per cent recovery should
be made at a cost of approximately 2s. 6d.
The cost of plant to do this is estimated at
not more than £40,000. Something is said
about good values being met with prior to
the cessation of operations in 1927 in work-
ings on No. 3 lode at the 2(330ft. level. In-
terest attaches to the results of the proposed
drive upon the same lode at the 3380 ft. level,
which, if payable, would give approximately
1000 ft. of backs.
* * * *
Star Exploration announces a 15 p.c. div.
and offers shareholders share for share at
par. The directors state that 95 p.c. of
the co.’s holdings are marketable, and that
at the date of last accounts their market
value was considerably in excess of their
book value. Co. was formed in 1910 to ac-
quire from the Hannan’s Star Consolidated
options over Ivalgoorlie mining properties,
together with about 300,000 tons of residues,
with retreatment plant, and £19,000 cash.
Retreatment of tailings was carried on till
about the middle of 1911, when, owing to poor
results, operations ceased. A financial busi-
ness chiefly in connection _ with the mining
industry is now being carried on.
* * * *
Phillips River copper field (W.A.) is re-
ceiving a little attention as a result of tin
improved price of the metal. Three old
mines, Mt. Cattlin, Elverdton and Marion
Martin, have been pegged, and the taking up
of others is talked of. Phillips River, backed
by London and German capital, once pro-
duced a fair tonnage of copper and a little
gold, but was never profitable to overseas
investors. A few local gougerfc, however, did
well at shallow depths.
* * * *
Hampton Properties (W.A.) was recently
approached in London by a couple of mining-
finance cos. with a view to exploiting its
hitherto improfitable goldmine on Hampton
Plains. Yail, of the Lake View and Star,
reckoned that the co. w r ould be fully justified
in further expenditure on development.
* * * *
After allowing for depreciation, Kamun-
ting netted £110.441 for the year to June
30 last. With £28,602 brought forward
£145,043 was available, of which £120,000
was absorbed in four dividends of 10 p.c.
each. The four working dredges cleaned up
5*5 acres during the year, recovering 1336.5
tons tin oxide, valued at £199,194, an aver-
age of £149 per ton. Dredging costs averaged
4.60 d. The area still to be treated is 2104
acres. Since the close of accounts two
dividends of 10 p.c. each have been paid.
The ss. fully-paid shares are at 16s. 6d. on
the market.
* * * *
Burma Malay’s first pup, Katu, has got
its dredge going. It has been fast work, for
the co. was formed ouly at the end of 1926.
The property is at Puket, adjacent to Tong-
kah Harbor, in Western Siam, and consists
of about 550 acres, of which 400 have been
bored by E. N. Mulligan and H. P. Buckley
to average ,871 b. of 72 p.c. tin oxide. Thus
far the dredge has been digging through
barren overburden to the ore-carrying wash,
and nothing much need be expected until a
working face has been opened out. It is a
modern Diesel-electric plant, and if recov-
eries come anything near estimates Katu
looks like a profit-earner with tin over
£2OO. Paid capital is £120,000; and the
market prices the pound shares at 28s.
* * *
Nawng Pet, the big sluicing show floated
under the wing of Malay Siamese, reports
that the new dams and storm wash-channels
worked splendidly during recent seasonal
downpours. Nevertheless, a subsidence has
put the southern portion of the plant out of
commission for a fortnight. This, of course,
will affect the January returns. It was only
in November last that the mine was recon-
ditioned after the disastrous floods of two
years earlier. The work was paid for out
of profits. Turnover stepped up from 22,000
yards in October to 59,500yd5. last month ; re-
coveries were 10.2 tons and 30.2 tons respec-
tively. Costs, 14.77 d. in October, dropped
to 5.64 d. for last month. The last div. (10
p.c.) was paid in April, 1925. On the
market the 2s. 4d. fully-paid shares are
priced at 2s. Bd.
* * * *
Huey Yot’s dredge lost time last month
on the boulder patches in abandoned Chinese
workings on the property. Nevertheless
103,000 c.y. were turned over for 36.4 tons
t.o. compared with 108,000 c.y. for 38.4 tons
in November; averages were .791 b. and
,891 b. respectively. An interim report
figures that 30,000,000 c.y. will go fib.
to the yard, a considerable drop on the
original estimates. Recently-acquired leases
will probably add 10,000,000 c.y. to that
total. The new areas are to be close-bored.
With tin at £2OO the recovery value of the
bored area is put at £1,115,000; and the life,
at the present rate of digging, 30 years.
Matters have evidently been gingered up on
this property, and the outlook seems dis-
tinctly brighter since recent changes in
method have been undertaken. Paid capital
is £140,000 in £1 shares, half in 12 p.c. cum.
par. prefs. and tho other half in ords. The
prefs. are priced around par, and the ords.
at 14s. 3d.
SJ: * *
When Tinsongkhla’s dredge set in on the
co.’s Siamese property a few months ago it
bottomed without finding any tin oxide worth
mentioning; so the board called in N. H.
White to do some check boring. He lias now
tested 50 acres on the lower leases. The 60
bores put down averaged 48ft. in depth and
.841 b. t.o. to the yard. The original boring
estimates showed values, over 172 acres, of
from 17oz. to 14£oz. per yard. In Whites
opinion the low-value clayey ground which
caused the recent trouble is confined to the
immediate vicinity of the dredge, and better
days are in sight. Heavy rain has solved the
water problem for the time being, but the
installation of a pipe line to obviate future
water shortage is imperative.
He * * *
At Stawell (Vic.) 50 tons of ore from a
mine at the northern end of the old gold-
field was recently crushed for 9230 z. of gold.
The shaft is 160 ft. deep, and the reef, which
is easily worked, is 3ft. to 7ft. wide.


A
Sggggj&Cia 3' $1 [fg£3£§§g&gg§gg^g|
; ;^:
Iff
;. ■:
/'!' ■ v, -
s**
■
.
m m
jjS 1 1- &j|i|t I
I *’- ’'•* '»M'-\ j<* ''.,' |gy
■ v
- . >/fit
| ' S " MMjM
-A - -xdyA-,>,»y^v
rfcfei*, '%**-
ll Stacks of Pigeon-holes and Ladders
in the Records Department.
r "” : - -*%k * \
J }w x v < •> • < • > .• *<"i
./
%
&>n:i
a
L....
-.
WS
S|| Steel Pigeon-holes fitted with Sliding
511 Doors in the Chief Accounts ! «
Steel Cabinets with Roller
Shutters.
Branch
■
w%
V.
■
k
I
m
i —^
m
Sfc
&■»
?»
iiii
■
'
I *
' s>il
»■
;:-a : a
m
'M
.
5,: • ..:
... >.:
»
o::
*x
\ jf
p
Ledger Trucks Fitted with Roller Shelves for
Conveyance of Ledgers to and from Strong Room.
All designed and erected by us for the Head Office of the new Government Savings Bank) Martin Place,
Sydney, opened for business on Monday, 17th December, 1928.
MARY ANN STREET, ULTIMO, SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 4247 (3 line.).


W' dr
mm
*£&’
#
Ai9
W,;# V |
7*
,<s■>
:&r
**
**r
f A ViTy
4 hj
am
•jnW .-;j*-j
iKi«/x /«I*3*4
- ***&
lA*
ft
irtc
t.Si*
•«88®»**
■"4
' * j%4
g$P»
- rffly Jwj
SW
58$$^
K
<-■*
■«7*®
:>v>
A>
»• wf
Sr
>'4
w
a*
■'*<
*
.;t
Wj&*
K
*•*
£
7+
?a 'ter 'S.I
<^r _v 3 «.-
-r
A
mV»r
v^V.
*4r'vvfiijf
**
- -a
S
- ')®Pk
F_ **/• iN?'
MOST PROFITABLE OF ALL SHEEP
FOODS—THE REASONS.
High feeding value
Supplies correct nourishment. .
Counteracts impaction
Keeps digestive system right. .
Improves condition in wool. .
Cheap to transport
Easy to feed
No waste
Extremely palatable
Keeps indefinitely
Residual fertilising value in the
droppings
Economical to feed
Increases wool-growth
Increases lambings
Increases percentage reared. .
Keeps young stock growing. .
Cheap to feed
Increases profits
Three times greater than oats.
Mainly protein.
Due to its Linseed Oil.
By its laxative action.
Through its Oil content.
Being highly concentrated.
By broadcasting.
Every scrap picked up.
Sheep will chase you for it.
Immune from attacks of weevil,
rats or mice.
Approximately £4 per ton.
From 2oz. to 3oz. daily is
ample ration.
By supplying the material
which forms wool fibre.
By building up the ewe.
By stimulating the milk flow.
By giving them the necessary
protein.
By reason of its concentrated
nature and the efficiency of
small rations.
By saving stock and improving
production.
[4p
C l/PtejfjSitt JZimited)
OFFICE, 26 KING ST., SYDNEY
Port Adelaides A I !?'
HEAD
VDorlts- Parramatta. NSAD. ’Melbourne. Victoria
Otic boy on. the 6m/
ffoduuntoas quality"
°/Ae Ixjy on
guarantees
COMMONWEALTH DISTRIBUTION:
A
rr%
&
4
i O
XS
V
re*
«=
<<i
K
? v
/>:
a
avjgsssqj
*• *f<tl -1
NEW SOUTH WALES: Meggitt
Limited, 26 King Street,
Sydney; and all Pastoral
Houses or Agents.
VICTORIA: New Zealand Loan
and Mercantile Agency Co.,
Ltd., Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Branches.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder,
Smith and Co., Ltd., Currie
Street, Adelaide, and Branches.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder,
Smith and Co., Ltd., St.
George’s Terrace, Perth, and
Branches. Sub-distributors,
Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd.,
Perth.
TASMANIA: F. W. Heritage ana
Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart and
Launceston.
QUEENSLAND: All Pastoral
Houses and Agents; also Den-
hams, Ltd., Brisbane; Denham
Bros., Ltd., Rockhaihpton;
Cummins and Campbell, Ltd.,
t Townsville and Cairns;
Corser and Co., Maryborough-


PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
The QUALITY, VALUE and
SERVICE which have distin-
guished Peapes’ goods for men
since 1866, are to-day recognised
as just as evident in their goods
for youths and boys.
Since Peapes do not conduct
“sales,” it is possible to procure
school outfits there at bedrock
prices uninfluenced by the need
for periodical “reductions.” Hence
the economy of buying at Peapes’.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
ŕ
r T > he purest tobacco only,
wrapped in snow-white
paper without any trimmings
has made t(C Che Qreys” the
best Virginia Cigarette.
It's the Tobacco that matters
GREYS
io for 9cL CIGARETTES 2® for 1/6
MAJOR DRAPKIN & CO. Branch of the United Kingdom Tobacco Co. Ltd. [NSG9
Monday to Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/0.
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 15/-, or
A la carte, minimum, 15/-
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Jack Woods* Ambassadors Dance
Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Harvie”: Tommy, the abo., gazed ear-
nestly at the tally-board after the first day’s
shearing at Ulumbie. “Cross,” he spelt out,
“85; Evans, 80; Bishop, 89; Total, 254.”
“By cripes,” he exclaimed, “that plurry
Total, him the one to slather ’em up.”
EXPLAINED.
“’Ow does this ’ere minimum wage work, Hegbert?"
“Well, yer see that’s wot a bloke gets fer goin’ to work. Then if ’e wants a bit more ’e
’as to work for it.”
“Gelt”: I saw an initiation ceremony
recently in one of the Buka (New Guinea)
islands when the boys of the village were col-
lected for presentation to the “ndook,” the
night of which marks one of their steps
towards manhood. Gaily-painted, the young-
sters marched around ceremoniously in a
circle, each attended by an older man who
acted as a guard and was armed with spear
or tomahawk. The mothers, sisters and
other female relatives surrounded the group
in a paroxysm of grief, wailing, stretching
forth their arms and pleading for the re-
covery of the children
that had been taken
from them. But the
guards kept them at
spear’s length, and
the boys marched oil
in their circle appa-
rently unimpressed by
the entreaties of their
kin. Many of the
mothers flung them-
selves full length
under the feet of the
marching crowd, vain-
ly grabbing at the
legs of their sons, but
it availed naught.
Th e n fo r a few
moments the guards
withdrew and the
womenfolk were al-
lowed to approach the
initiates. It was a
pitiful scene, this fare-
we 11 between the
mothers and their
sons, who were about
to pass from child-
hood to early man-
hood. The guards re-
turned and escorted
the youths into the
bush from whence the cries of the devil —
or “ndook” —sounded. r JThe wailing grew
more intense and the howls of grief un-
earthly. They are wonderful waiters, these
island women, but it doesn’t mean much.
For a few sticks of tobacco they will cry
their hearts out, with tears streaming down
their cheeks.
* * * *
“Walby Trackman”: Out on a holiday
tramp I got on a wrong track and finally
stumbled on the camp of an old miner in
the Dolomite Ranges (N.Q.), after passing
through bleak, barren, stony country for
many hours. To my surprise the old chap
had quite a decent little tomato patch. I
remarked that there didn’t seem to be soil
enough for miles around to grow even a
weed, to which the old man responded that
the loam in the patch had all been carried
on pack horse. “You see,” he explained, I
go to town for supplies every three months
and I always bring back a half-hundred of
taters. That garden’s made from the soil I
wash off the spuds.”
“Eureka”: “Mullarula” (B. 12/12/’2S)
doubts if there is any place in Australia
where rain has not fallen for 12 months.
I lived beyond the Darling River for two
years in 1900-01, and didn’t see one drop of
rain fall, though, strange to say, there was
frequently a heavy dew on the grass late
at night. Sitting in a shed made from ben-
NO CHANCE .
BILL (just home from marrying a town girl): “Did you bring up the mail, darling?
—’member that’s part of your job!”
JILL: “I went down the paddock, dear, but the brute simply wouldn’t leave the cows."
zine-tins on a roasting hot day I heard a
heavy thud, thud, thud about me. I jumped
for joy, thinking that the noise was the
falling of large raindrops, but I was soon
disillusioned. It was the solder on the tins
melting and dropping to the floor.
* * * *
“Diptin” : Fishing at Tuncurry (N.S.W.)
recently, I had a bite that anglers dream of.
Without a fight, my catch came heavily to
the surface, while I reckoned the weight
from two to five pounds. Sacre bleu, donner
und blitzen, also bother it! It was a large
conch-shaped shell and in it was a big crab,
hopelessly imprisoned, with only its claws
showing. On breaking open the shell, I
found the tenant had no armor on its back.
Evidently it had, in its callow youth, crept
into the conch and, being unable to extricate
itself, had perforce grown to the shape of the
shell. Nature had declined the job of manu-
facturing armor in an environment which
provided all necessary protection.
* * * *
“Kildary”: “Roberto” (B. 2/l/’2O) is tell-
ing a fish yarn when he says a snake was
picked up by the header comb and landed in
the grain-box none the worse for wear. As
the drum is set down to less than a quarter
of an inch, I fail to see how anything but
a head of wheat or oats could go through
without being smashed up. Has “Roberto”
ever stripped a crop with wild lettuce through
it? A stalk of that, even half an inch thick,
is flattened and broken up.
* * * *
“S’African Exile”: “Wingella” says (B.
5/9/’2B) that the weals made by the
Portuguese man-o’-war remain for life and
are horribly disfiguring. I remember in 1890
seeing Ooogee beach crowded with toddlers
who were crying because they had been
stung; but-we bigger boys were busy throw-
ing Portuguese men-o’-war at each other,
trying who could produce the most weals.
We had a rough passage while the pain
lasted, but the marks soon disappeared. It
looks as if the potency of the virus may vary
a great deal. Is there any rule governing
that?
* * =t *
“Rexella”: I think I can tell “Cog” (B.
2/l/’29) what became of the silage that he
asked the “Land” Page about. It sank.
I investigated a similar occurrence, in a pad-
dock near Bundanoon (N.S.W.) in Decem-
ber, 1921. A number of us were staying
there, and we were very interested in about
an acre of maize, as laboratory tests had
promised that each stalk would grow to
the height of a telephone pole, with cobs
bursting from every inch. It was our habit
to inspect it daily to see if this desirable
result was being achieved, but a few days
before Christmas torrential rains arrived and
our activities were then confined to billiards.
During the afternoon of Christmas Day
there was a temporary break in the weather
with a burst of glorious sunshine, and re-
membering the maize we marched off to
inspect it. We found that a lot of the crop
had disappeared, and a lot was in the process
of disappearing, only the tops showing above
the ground. The next day we were almost
reduced to tears when we learned that what
was left of the maize had been eaten by a
mob of cows, the beasts having entered the
paddock through a gap caused by the mys-
terious subsidence of six panels of fencing.
One of our number, a very capable geolo-
gist, got to work and solved the mystery.
A complete explanation in terms of geology
would consume too much space, but, in brief,
it is this. Here and there in these volcanic
formations there are “chimneys” that were
dface baby craters, and through them rain
and moisture find their way to subterranean
lakes and rivers. That is why red, black,
chocolate, or other local volcanic soils simply
won’t hold their moisture, and dry out
within a week or so after the heaviest rains.
These “chimneys” are, full of earth, but with
the action of the rain that earth is caused
to assume the properties of quicksand, ana
when such a crop as this gets on top of one
of these chimneys it has no option but to obey
the law of gravity and go where the silage
went.
# # * *
“Black Tracker”: When our prospecting
party camped for the night on the road to
Mount Leonora (W.A.) we found ourselves
close to Doolette’s party, who had claims in
the Niagara district. We had just turned
out our camels when a big savage black bull
that had been running wild rushed the camp.
We managed to dodge him and he made for
Doolette’s cows. One of the party, Pearce
by name, was taken unawares, and turned
to find the brute almost on top of him. With
great presence of mind he dodged the out-
stretched open mouth and brought his
immense fist down fairly between the bull’s
ears, causing it to stagger on to its fore-
knees and then roll over, fairly knocked out.
It was the neatest bit of boxing I have ever
seen.
* * * *
“Colub” : The blue-tongued lizard is mak-
ing his annual appearance in Sydney subur-
ban gardens just now. He’s a repulsive-look-
ing beast, and many people believe him to
be venomous. Australia harbors no poison-
ous lizards, and the blue-tongue befriends
man and other sensitive creatures in his capa-
city as a fly-destroyer, catching insects on an
adhesive substance with which his tongue is
thickly coated, and consuming them in great
quantities. Last summer I saw a Sydney
house cleared of flies within a few days
after a couple of the lizards had taken up
their abode in the garden.
(Continued on page 25A
THE MALLEE FARMER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If yofi can only roll the scrub au’ get the
stumps away,
An’ stop the shoots from cornin’ up an’ keep
the sand at bay,
An’ get the flamin’ fallow done an’ stand
the flies an’ heat,
You’ll have a chance, a slender chance, of
harvestin’ some wheat.
When you can see your crop come up an’
wither on the plain.
An’ bend your back an’ bare your arms an
tilt at luck again ;
When you can watch the hot winds whip the
blessed heart from
An’ not go throwin’ in the sponge, you
oughter see it through.
If you can watch a year’s hard toil go west
in half a day,
An’ laugh to see a duststorm whirl a hundred
quid away,
An’ make the tradesmen see the joke while
bills keep pilin’ up,
You’ll jist about be game enough to dram
the bloomin’ cup.
When you can sit upon your fence while
Hope goes ridin’ by,
An’ not start cursin’ Cod’s bright sun or His
“blue, smilin’ sky,”
When you can take all Fate can send as
steady as a rock,
You have a chance—a real good chance —
upon a Mallee block.
VICTORIA.
P. T. FINDLAY.


minimi ummummmuimmmimmmm
flb-
K
pH
m
m
ft
%
m
Thanks to
DUNLOP
GARDEN
HOSE
LOOK FOR THE "DUNLOP” BRAND
The outstanding quality
and durability of Dunlop
Hose ensure years of
satisfactory service.
STOCKED BY ALL LEADING STORES
minimum m n mmmmii mm iimmmimmmmmnii m mmmiimuimimnmmi mu mm mini m iimmimi
7 he
m
m
.
dfor
%
r en
£OO-
-
oHT
WP
t gf£CT
1
s/cov^
oU€H^ eS
' V. .«•
B
AM
ŗ
DUNLOP
is the “quality” tyre
ř
m
m
%
i
&


ROMANO’S
York Street, near Market Street,
(behind Civil Service Stores), Sydney
High-Class Continental
Restaurant.
Luxuriously fitted up—Beautiful
lighting effects —A wonderful band
(under the direction of Merv Lyons)
and - the last word in culinary.
Mon Pierre Chef, from the Cafe de Paris, Paris,
is master of his art, and Romano’s hope to
please the palate of the most fastidious. Visitors
from the country will find an ideal place
where they can entertain friends.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS,
DINNERS AND SUPPERS.
A Private Room for Weddings or
Special Parties.
Pot Reservations Ring M 6727 (3 lines').
(Also under the personal supervision of Romano ,)
ORDER WINES BEFORE 6 P.M.
mm
s
m
Xmw tS
Scott’s Hotel is equipped with every modern y 7
convenience, every room is well lighted, is fitted with electric
fans and fires, whilst hot and cold water service and direct
and intercommunicating telephones are part of the bedroom
service.
Inclusive Tariff by ‘Day, or Bed and (Breakfast Rate
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD
Telegrams: “Scottsotel, Melbourne”
’Phone: Central 9011 (10 lines)
COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE
5.35
r
1
You’ve never worn a Truss like this be-
fore. You’ve never known such comfort,
such freedom. Denyer’s Elastic Truss is
the last word in Rupture support—always
comfortable, always effective. Helpful
Rupture pamphlet free on request.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
DENYER BROS.,
Dept. 1,
267 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
A
“Phalanger”: Q’land nature lovers have
been stirred to the ends of their whiskers
by the announcement of a zoological autho-
rity that the possums on the shores of
Moreton Bay have taken to eating crabs.
He spends much of his time boating in
the bay, and asserts he has frequently
seen the possums come out at low tide and
feed heartily on the countless little blue
soldier-crabs which perambulate the exposed
sandflats at such a time. Most bushmen
know that the allegedly vegetarian possum
has a keen appetite for meat, as well as
flour, sugar and bread, while he has been
accused of robbing birds’ nests into the bar-
gain. The opossum, an American, is
recognised as an omnivorous eater of any-
thing that comes his way. from corncobs to
nestlings, but he is no relation to the little
Australian.
* * * *
“Old Timer”: “Penn’s” pitiful yarn about
child slavery (B. 2/l/’29) set me thinking
of a kid I used to know on the N.S.W. North
Coast. He was a pastmaster at dodging jobs
on the farm. One day he told me that his
teacher had been questioning him about the
work he had to do. So he had told the
usual story about getting up before day-
light, having the cows in yard at cockcrow
and milking 15 of them (it always is 151
night and morning. “But, Charlie,” I said,
“you always have morning tea before you go
for the cows, and I don’t make it in the dark,
and you only bail-up; so what’s the idea ?”
“Well,” said he, “if I told him the truth
he wouldn’t let me off so much lessons. As
a matter of fact, no kid of 9, or 12 either,
could milk 15 cows night and morning.
* * * *
“The Rumpus”: Our old donkey had a
habit of doing the job “Ess’s” publican used
to do when selling liorse-feed to a traveller
(B. 12/12/’2B). When a traveller arrived,
Dad, who kept a pub out in the salt-
bush, would portion out a liberal gee-
gee’s dinner into the stall-box, put up
the rails, and conduct the owner to the
bar. Tiger, our noddy, would then step up
and so annoy his hungry brother that the
poor beast had little opportunity of feeding.
When Tiger heard footsteps approaching he’d
move off a few paces and anybody not
knowing his little ways would consider butter
unmeltable in his mouth. Often a traveller
would reckon his crock was sickening when
the quantity left in the feed-box was seen,
and stay a day or so for the prad to recuper-
ate —which was good business.
* He sf:
“Bouragi”: Those folk who visualise tropic
seas as teeming with succulent fish waiting
to be yanked out of the water into the frying
pan are usually disillusioned by reality. This
has been the experience of the British scien-
tific expedition which has been on Low
Island, Barrier Reef, for some time. In that
period the party have only been able to catch
two kingfish, which are about as palatable as
cotton wool mixed with pins. When they
wanted fresh fish it had to be brought from
the mainland, and if that wasn’t available
they had recourse to the tinned salmon
from America which is the chief sustenance
of the Darlinghurst flat-dweller. The writer
has tried all tackles and wiles for catching
fish in the tropics, and save for the so-called
kingfish, which are Spanish mackerel, has
never had any luck. That is why when one
experienced in the Islands goes fishing he
does so with a plug of dynamite, and so
makes sure of a good haul.
* si? * *
“Pickax”: There’s a good reason why
Binghi walks along carrying next to noth-
ing and uses his gin for a packhorse (“Ess,”
B. 26/12/’2S). That is the custom of all
races who live in perpetual fear of their
lives, and it takes more than a few genera-
tions to wipe out native customs existent
since time immemorial. The Papuans do
exactly the same, and the explanation ol'
the apparent laziness of the man is that he
is doing what his grandfathers did, though
necessity no longer exists: the man was the
protector and had to be ready for a possible
ambush, and were he to carry half the load,
or even one of the piccaninnies, he would be
THE CONVERT.
HIS HONOR (to Slugger, up for stoushing a constable ): “When you come out I hope
your relations with the police will be better.”
SLUGGER (of the liver push): “Trust me, yeronner. I’ll leave no stone unturned to
serve ’em, yeronner.”
hampered. Papuan women object to their
menfolk carrying gear. That •is women’s
work, and, above all, they want their men
to be men. Old men more or less past
fighting will,* when accompanied by younger
men and women, carry a medium load.
* * ■ * *
“Up North”: The recent trouble in the
Rabaul district is not without precedent. A
row broke out all over the Mambare years
ago. Elliott and Clark’s party, of Towers
gold-and-copper fame, were the first to taste
Black Brother's club. Then John Green, in
charge of the police post above Tamata
Creek, who had absolute confidence in the
natives, was treacherously clubbed to death
with some of his police boys. Thousands of
savages then rushed the scattered camps
along the Mambare. The diggers left in a
great hurry, making off in canoes. A num-
ber were caught, clubbed and roasted. What
saved many more was the time taken
by the savages in looting the stores. Around
Whitelow’s, in particular, howling hordes
quarrelled and fought for hours over the dis-
tribution of the liquor and other goods. The
whites made their escape, hurried on by the
flames of Tamata behind them and the cer-
tain knowledge that the cooking-stones
awaited those who were caught. At Duvira
a poor devil sought refuge in a cocoanut-
tree. He was stoned to death. The Ori-
kieva and Opie crowd clubbed two parties,
and the Upper Kumusi natives captured King
and Campion and all their carriers, diove
stakes through their stomachs and roasted
them over slow fires. The massacres were
stopped only when miners and Government
forces united and fought the headhunters.
* * * *
“Copabella”: Probably because the Aus-
tralian Museum encourages the idea with its
“reconstructed” specimens and its house
magazine, and the S. M. Herald broadcasts
it in its nature-study page, there is abroad
a view of the unique ceratodus, or lung-fish,
that is quite at variance with that of students
of the fish in its only habitat —the Burnett
River in Central Q’land. The Australian
Museum uses the term “ceratodus or Burnett
salmon,” but to Burnett people the two are
distinct. Discovery of a ceratodus in the
river would be an event, but Burnett salmon,
fresh and smoked, is a common article in
local fish-shops. It is identical with the
bnrramundi. I lived three years on the
Burnett River, and it was impressed on me
there that the ceratodus was worth its weight
in gold, but the salmon was anybody’s Friday
dinner. The thought of eating a lung-fish
was sacrilege when London and New York
aquariums were offering fabulous sums for
the rare creatures.
“Fingerpoint”: The Cape York Peninsula
abo. has evolved a sign language with which
he can talk all day without opening his
mouth. Every animal in the bush is repre-
sented, even to those introduced by the white
man: every bird, all fish, snakes, lizards and
edible insects and plants. The talk is done
by the hands and arms ; one hand and one
se t fingers can fashion signs for many
things. The long nose of the bandicoot is an
easy finger sign, and the crest of the cockatoo
0 r the jaws of an alligator are easily indi-
cated. There is a finger or hand sign for
each phase of an animal’s most striking
activity. Snake signs are a matter of
wriggling the arm, and each species is iden-
tified by its distinctive movement. The antics
of lizards are portrayed, and a bird of any
sort is signalled by the hands imitating its
style of flight. The silent talk is useful in
many ways. Hunters at a distance from one
another, or close to game, make use of it. To
a raiding party it means a lot to be able to
converse silently, and lovers find the silen*
language a great boon,
* * * *
“Tuppence”: What has happened to
Crooked Mick? Is he dead? If so, when did
he die, and what killed him? It’s years
since I heard of him. He was knocking
about Big Burrawang at the time when the
shed overseer used a bicycle to ride the board.
Mick had a five-inile paddock for a catching-
pen at that shed. According to legend, at
one time, when cooking, he curried 0000
wether weaners, and boiled two tons of rice
for breakfast. On another occasion he
cooked for 80 shearers and an equal number
of rouseabouts, and the only utensils he had
were a 400-gallon tank and a quartpot.
Crooked Mick used to use anvils for jumping
weights, and drank his beer out of a bucket.
He cut 100 fence-posts, and walked half a
mile between each post one morning before
dinner, and as horseman, cattleman, shearer
and all-round bushman he was reckoned to
be pretty good.
* * * *
“Mulgo”: “I’ve seen some tremendous eels
in these lagoons, where they’d been shut in
for years an’ years, waitin’ for an old-man
flood to help ’em to emigrate,” said Lanky,
a long-limbed person whose recreation was
wandering about the waterways with a bush
rod on his shoulder. “I’ve caught ’em that
long, he added, throwing out his gorilla
arms, “and that beats you fellows!” “Yairs,”
said Stumpy. “You can always beat us
ordinary blokes; you’ve got such dam’ long
arms.”
* * * *
“E.S.”: Some years ago a reckless well-
borer at Muttaburra (Q.) rode his horse
through a passage that was only 22in. wide
between the Landsborough Hotel and the
music-hall. The publican made a noise about
it, as lie didn't want a disaster on his pre-
mises, with the result that the well-borer
bet him £2O that he could drive a vehicle
through the same place. Money was staked
and an agreement signed and for days after-
wards the passage was inspected and
measured by residents, and other bets were
made. On the day fixed for the event the
well-borer drove up in a vehicle that had
been specially and secretly made at
Clemeslia’s smithy with mowing-machine
wheels, a spindle and light piping. It was
,15in. wide, and in the presence of all Mutta-
burra the well-bloke drove it through the
passage and lifted the stake.
* * * *
“A.H.”: Australia’s largest bird of prey,
next to the wedge-tailed eagle, is the giant
owl, which lias a wing spread of four to
five feet. It is more often heard than seen,
and once heard its human-like scream is
never forgotten. Even old bushmen are
deceived and declare that someone is being
murdered away up the gully. Horses will
bolt, and dogs fly in terror when they hear
the terrible cry. Sometimes known as the
powerful owl, this bird can carry away a
full-grown rabbit with ease.
* * * *
“Lillal” : The driver of a motor-truck on
road from Meeka station to
(W.A.) noticed a very large bungarra
(Groperland ’goanna) on the track. As it
attempted to waddle out of the way, two
of the truck wheels caught it amidships. The
truck-driver stopped and saw the dying rep-
tile vomiting a number of very young foxes.
The bungarra will be more in favor with
sheepmen after this, even though he does
occasionally pay visits to the chicken-coop.
* * * *
“Castleton”; Somewhere on the road from
Jerry’s Plains to Putty (N.S.W.) is a shallow
cave, on the rocky wall of which are the
deep impressions of two human hands.
I think the rock is basalt, but I am not
geologist enough to know whether the for-
mation is volcanic or sedimentary. Any-
way, it seems certain that in the days
before Adam’s great-grandfather saw light,
some chap tested the consistency of either
cooling igneous matter or mud. The impres-
sions are large enough to indicate that the
prehistoric Binghi weighed about 40 stone.
* * He *
“John B.”: Have ’roos, like wildfowl, an
instinct that leads them to localities where
rain has fallen? Motorists from out back
reported recently having met large mobs of
them on the track making for country which
had been blessed with rain. These favored
spots are positively overrun with the animals,
whereas drier areas don’t carry one to the
square mile.
* * * *
“Up Top” : In the Far North there is an
agile bush rat that can climb tall trees at
the run. He is very inquisitive, and at night
slithers along the branches and peers down
at the camp-fire with ruby eyes. He hardly
waits for the humans to snore before he is
hopping over their blankets, pinching crusts,
rattling the camp-oven lid and getting him-
self entangled in the jam-tin. As the night
wears on he becomes bolder, and nibbles the
sleepers’ hair. The resultant roar scatters
him and his cobbers into the bushes, where
they peer around, with little furry bodies
ready for a pattering scamper up the nearest
trees. They live on berries and flower-pods
and the tender shoots of the wild palms.
Occasionally a colony of them take a liking
to the cocoanut-trees, compelling the planters
to fence the butts of the palms with slippery
sheets of tin. There is none of the furtive-
ness of the house rat about them, and they
are often pretty. Owls love them.
KY-NINIE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Back of the hills, Ky-Ninie,
Back of the far-flung plain,
Over the edge of the skyline
My thoughts take flight again.
And I go by the ways forgotten,
Like a grieving daylight ghost.
To the home of my heart, Ky-Ninie,
Out on the far South Coast.
Place of the isles, Ky-Ninie,
Wonderful, lone and wide,
I hear the crash of the breakers
In the van of the bright springtide,.
The back-blown manes of the combers
Are curving and green and tall;
With the clouds at one with the surges
And the sea-mist over it all.
I remember the cliffs, Ky-Ninie,
And the rock pools shadowed and dim,
The song of the surf on the headland
Like a mighty, marching hymn.
The summer haze on the sea-line,
Like lovely, forgotten skies,
Buried so long and deeply
In the blue tide’s fall and rise.
By cliff and by crag. Ky-Ninie,
The seas are ever the same;
The white foam breaks at the foreland
As it broke ere ever we came.
But down by the homestead haven,
Where the brown roads beckon and turn,
Only the whipbird whistles
And the blue wrens flit in the fern.
Only the magpies’ matins
Ring to the morning skies,
xVnd the dark scrub runs to the shore-line,
And the wee blue butterflies
Rise from the ribbed sea-grasses
When a passing footstep falls
Under the sapling’s banner
High on the leaf-hung walls.
The little sea-daisies glimmer”
And the evening winds are astir
Through the dunes and the dun sea-grasses
And the long sea-lavender.
And I hear the white terns calling
And the breaking waves’ refrain
By the curve of that sea, Ky-Ninie,
Where I never shall walk again.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Reporter-compositor, 20 years’ experience,
good references, will accept position any
provincial newspaper. (To 10!) Tennyson-
street, IOlwood, S3, Vic.)
Young man, experience editing, proof-read-
ing, indexing, seeks position as secretary to
busy literary worker or • anyone else who
could utilise his service; has own typewriter.
—S395.
Englishman, Uni. graduate, war-pensioner,
seeks translation work, expert knowledge
French, German and Italian; also prepared
to undertake light office duties, few days
weekly, Melbourne.—8372.
Young lady, Sydney, living at home, plenty
of spare time willing to type manuscripts,
letters, legal documents.—8399.
Young man, journalistic and advertising
experience, wants job on N.S.W. or Vic.
country newspaper; willing to learn job-
printing side of business. Mild climate essen-
tial.—8389.
Good sportsman wanted as motor-cycle
side-car passenger, March or April, two to
four weeks’ tour, N.S.W. 50-50 basis.—
8364.
Young man (28), long experience sea,
knowledge of engines, island trading, wants
to join syndicate contemplating trading
cruise Solomon Islands or elsewhere.—8381.
Handy young man (28) wants work in
the Islands.—8370.
Lady would like position with Sydney
commercial studio or otherwise, catalogue
work, designs (including figure work). Ex-
perience as art-teacher in Melbourne.—8330.
Married man, 11 years Q’land experience
as jackcroo, overseer and manager, sheep and
cattle, wants position as station manager.—
8336.
Energetic and well-educated man (28),
good credentials, desires position overseer on
sheep station ; 10 years’ experience N.Z. and
Australia. —8292.
Doctor’s widow, certificated nurse (R.P.A.
Hosp., Sydney), member A.T.N.A. (Q.
branch), wants position as housekeeper
(school), care of invalid or any position of
trust. —8350.
Tailor (24), Rockhampton, wants position
in Q’land as coat-maker or press and sew.—
8377.
Energetic man (42), wife, two children,
wants management of up-to-date sheep pro-
perty, N.S.W. or Q. Used to all kinds
machinery; lifelong experience Vic. and
Riverina. —SOSO.
To buy up to 30 unused sixpenny Kooka-
burra stamps, old issue.—8338.
To buy copy of Hugo’s “French” (elemen-
tary textbook used largely by Diggers in
France). —8342.
To buy copy of The Bulletin’s “History
of Botany feay” (18S8).—8333.
To exchange modern novels, good condi-
tion, for anything written by Australian
authors, any period or 'subject, book-for-book
basis. —8371.
To exchange quantity of mining books,
all intact, for telescope or pair of binoculars.
(To S. Newbury, Kent-street,- Coolangatta,
Q’land.)
To correspond with stamp collectors. (To
E. Stephens, Herrier-street, Toowoomba, Q.)
Words of verses entitled “When Richard
III. Sat on the Throne.” —8355.
Whereabouts of John Moore, formerly of
Kalgoorlie and Lands Department, Perth. —
8322.
Copy of “The Laws of Lawn Tennis.”
(To P. F. Thompson, Coolabah, N.S.W.)
Information Sought.
(1) Is there a market for asbestos in
Australia? Price per ton? (2) Any market
for magnesite? (3) To ivhotn could samples
of both be sent? —8262.
(1) There is quite a good demand for
asbestos of approved quality. Present mar-
ket price varies from £2 per ton up to £130
per ton according to quality. Good quality
is soft and long fibred —not stony. (2)
There is only a small market for magnesite,
and the price is low. Ore assaying 95 per
cent, can be purchased in Sydney at about
55s. per ton, so that to get some of the
trade you would have to beat that price.
The same grade of magnesite is selling in
the oversea markets at about £2 per ton, so
that it is not a payable proposition for the
Australian producer to ship oversea. (3)
Frank Hambridge, 22 Bridge-street, Sydney.
(1) Is a will made on a uyill form sold at
a stationer's legal? (2) Is it necessary that
it should be witnessed by tico J's.P.f —8291.
(1) Yes, if the instructions given are strictly
followed. Such forms should, however, be
used only where a simple disposition is
given as : “All my real and personal estate
to ” Where more is needed better have
the will drawn up by a solicitor. (2) Any
two adult persons of normal intelligence may
be witnesses, not necessarily J’s.P.
(1) What is the cost of a seat on the
Brisbane Stock Exchange? (2) Qualifica-
tions? (3) Do any members make a living
solely by their efforts on the Exchange? (4)
What chance would a stranger to Brisbane
have of establishing a connection, assuming
he had sufficient capital to buy a seat? —
8284.
(1) About £550. (2) He must satisfy
the committee of his good character and
solvency. (3) Probably not by their actual
operations on ’Change, but certainly by the
business their membership brings them. (4)
Would depend entirely on his capacity, not
only for the actual business of buying and
soiling shares, but also for advising clients
and impressing potential clients. It would
be very difficult, if not impossible, to carry
on without some capital apart from that in-
vested in the seat.
Arc preference shares quite safe? Does it
mean that whatever happens they yet their
money back? —8321.
No, it does not. It means only that they
come in ahead of other shareholders; and in
some cases other shareholders may be ad-
mitted and put in ahead of them. Always
the outside creditors have to be paid first;
and these outside creditors include debenture-
holders.
(1) Definition of “ pistol ” in the N.B.W.
Pistol Licenses Act, and cost of license? (2)
Are toy and antique pistols subject to license,
and would a captured German automatic
pistol come under the Act? (3) Would an
officer on the reserve list have to yet a license
for his equipment revolver? (4) Can any
license be obtained without payment of feet
—8243.
(1) A lethal weapon from which a shot,
bullet or other missile can be discharged, and •
of which the length of barrel does not exceed
Din. The Act prescribes that a person, shall
not purchase, carry or have in his possession
any pistol unless he holds a license in respect
of it. The fee is 10s. per annum. (2) A toy
or antique jiistol which is kept as a curio-
sity or ornament need not be licensed. A
German automatic pistol, which is capable
of being discharged, would require to be
licensed. (3) The decision would depend on
whether the officer is “a person in the naval,
military or air service of his Majesty.” (4)
No.
I wish to enter the N.B.W. Education
Department through the small schools' exam.
(1) What is aye-limit? (2) When and.
where are exams, held. (3) The commen-
cing salary? —B2s7.
(1) Sixteen to thirty-five years. Candidate
must be unmarried. (2) At Sydney and
headquarters of country inspectors about the
end of March and early in June in each year.
(3) The minimum commencing salary for an
adult is £228 p.a.; £SO is allowed while in
college.
(1) Title and price of a book which will
enable one to follow the correct modern
method of teaching very young children?
(2) What should be done to obviate left-
handedness. (3) Where can easy readers
and apparatus for simple teaching of arith-
metic be g0t? —8247.
(1) “Individual Work in the School,” bv
Miss Mackinder (4s. 6d.). (2) If the child
is naturally left-handed, let him alone. (8)
“Live Readers,” with teacher’s book, are
recommended; they are obtainable from
Dymock’s, 428 George-street, Sydney, which
firm also stocks apparatus for teaching arith-
metic.
How to take mildew stains out of natural
and colored fugi silk? —8232.
Boil fib. soft soap in 1 pint water ; soak
mildewed articles in this solution, lay them
on grass and sprinkle with salt. Leave
in the sun 12 hours, and keep damping them
as they dry by sprinkling with rain water.
Rinse in cold water with some ammonia.
Mildew is very obstinate on silk, and clean-
ing processes may remove color from the
fabric.
(1) Present head-office of the British
Tobacco Cos. of Australia? (2) What are
its subsidiaries? (3) Their separate capi-
tals?—SoS3.
(1) Registered office, 26-28 a’Beckett-
street, Melbourne. Head office: Raleigh
Park, Kensington, Sydney. (2) W. D. and
11. O. Wills (Aus.) ; British Australian
Tobacco Cos. Pty. ; States Tobacco Cos.; S. T.
Leigh and Cos. (3) Book value of holdings
(in parent’s books, 31/10/’2S) £7,722,192.
Individual capitals of subsidiaries unknown.
The Bulletin spells in a conservatively
I-\ glisli fashion except for omitting the “ u"
from honor, etc. How did the dropping of
the “u” originate? —B34o.
There is no rule, and no discoverable
principle governs the division between -our
and -or words. As Fowler says in “Modern
English Usage” we have “favour” and “hor-
ror,” “ardour” and “pallor,” “odour” and
“tremor,” “saviour” and “governor.” To say,
therefore, that the “our” is English and the
“or” American is carrying the thing too
far. The American disposition undoubtedly
is to knock out the u ; but there is a pro-
nounced English disposition the same way.
(1) Is there any market for manganese?
(2) Price per ton? (3) Whom could I get
in touch with EE supplying unlimited quan-
tities with no land transport? —B2B3.
(1) Yes. (2) The present price for 48
per cent, to 50 per cent, (metallic) is approx-
imately Is. 3d. per unit, equal to £3 per
ton for 48 per cent, delivered Europe. This
is for steelworks quality. For chemical
grade manganese— i.e. ore assaying 75 per
cent, or over of manganese dioxide —higher
prices are obtainable if the remaining con-
tents are not deleterious. (3) Frank Ham-
bridge, 22 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Names of (1) books dealing with the life
and habits of Australian opossums, (2)
persons who can supply first-hand ififorma-
tion about opossums. —B3oo.
(1) There is no book dealing with opos-
sums alone, but they are referred to at
some length in “The Wild Animals of Aus-
tralasia.” by A. S. le Souef, Burrell and
Troughton (Harrap, London, 1926). The
“Australian Encylopedia” also contains some
good information about them. They are not
true opossums, but phalangers. (2) Mr.
A. S. le Souef, Director, Taronga Park
Zoo, Mosman. Sydney; and Mr. E. le G.
Troughton. Australian Museum, College-
street, Sydney.
(1) How can one get Crown land in
N.S.W.t (2) How old must one be? (o)
What is Torrens titlef (4) What is free-
hold*—B244. „ „ „„
(1) Apply to the Information Bureau,
Lands Department, Sydney, where particu-
lars of vacant Crown lands may be obtained.
(2) Minimum ages: male, 10 years; female,
IS years. (3) A system of registration ot
titles to land introduced into South Aus-
tralia by the Real Property (or Torrens)
Act, 1557-58, drafted by Sir Robert Richard
Torrens. Its essential feature is the guar-
antee by the Government of properly regis-
tered titles. (4) Land that has been pur-
chased from or granted by the Crown, r
which a deed of grant has been issued under
the old system of registration or under
Torrens title.
Is the Mandated Territory as unhealthy
as people say? Is it possible for an average
person to keep fit theref —8334.
Quite possible, especially on the lotty
Bulolo goldfields. The north-east and parts
of the Bismarck Archipelago are certainly
enervating for whites, and Rabaul is in the
malarial region; at Rabaul, however, the
hent is tempered by constant breezes, and
with careful attention to diet,, exercise and
sanitation, healthy white residents should
remain healthy. When the measures taken
ngainst malaria and the like have produced
their full effect, and sanitoria have been
established at bracing places in the moun-
tains, New Guinea will be no more in-
salubrious than Ceylon is.
(1) What is the usual procedure when
the author of a book published in Australia
wants to place it on the Continental market?
(2) What terms might he reasonably expect
for the sale of a translated copy to a foreign
publisher? —Boßß.
(1) There is no recognised procedure, but
assuming that the author has retained the
foreign rights, he might arrange with a liter-
ary man in the particular country to trans-
late the work and sell it to a publisher. Or,
better still, he could send copies to a London
literary agent, such as Curtis Brown, Ltd.,
who would communicate with publishers
likely to be interested with a view to selling
translation rights for cash. Foreign rights
are rarely sold on a royalty basis, especially
in the case of unknown authors. If pub-
lishers will not buy the literary agent might
deal with a trusted translator, arranging for
a division of profits with the author in the
event of acceptance. (2) If he arranges
with a translator direct, half the proceeds;
if lie chooses the alternative described, 80 p.c.
of the proceeds, 10 per cent, going to the
literary agent and 10 per cent, to hts agent.
A recipe for making camphorated oil in
small quantities. -‘-8286.
Dissolve, say, one ounce of finely divided
camphor in 4 ounces of olive oil. The cam-
phor may be divided the more easily by
sprinkling a few drops of methylated spirit
on it and then pounding it up in a dish. It
is dissolved in the oil by a low temperature;
as it is excessively volatile the process must
be carried out in a closed vessel, otherwise
most of it will be lost.
Are bullets from machine-guns mounted on
aeroplanes fired through the blades of the
propeller? —8201.
Generally the fixed forward machine-guns
on an aeroplane do fire through the circle
swept by the propeller. The firing of the
gun is synchronised with the propeller by
means of the Constantinesco gun synchronis-
ing gear (or C.C. gear) so that the bullets
do not hit the blades. A cam operated from
the engine crankshaft or propeller shaft
operates a plunger, which sends impulses
through an oil pipe-line to another plunger,
which at every impulse releases the trigger
of the machine-gun. Oil is supplied to the
pipe-line from a reservoir under, pressure.
The timing of the cam and plunger with
relation to the blades of the propeller is
arranged so that the bullets will not hit the
blades. Machine-guns which are capable of
firing in any direction and do not fire
through the propeller circle are not syn-
chronised in any way.
(1) Is marriage with a deceased wife’s
sister legal in N.S.W.? (2) Is it legal in
the other Australian States? —8338.
(1 and 2) Yes. The Marriage Act, N.S.W.,
provides that every marriage otherwise law-
ful, “heretofore or hereafter,” celebrated in
that State between any person and the sis-
ter of his deceased wife shall be deemed to
be valid and of full force and effect; and
similar legislation exists in other States.
(1) Must persons or firms who receive
money on interest for investment purposes
be licensed by the Government in N.S.W.?
(2) Have such persons or firms to submit
annual returns of all “trust” or “invest-
ment” moneys? (3) What security have I
if I invest with such companies? —8376.
(1) No. (2) No. (3) That’s not easy to
say. The wise investor will see, first, that
the co.’s own capital is great compared
with the amount of deposits. Second, he
will see that a reasonable amount of funds
is held liquid; if everything is sunk in,
say, properties bought for subdivision, and
the subdivision market is slack, the co. can
get rid of one IOU only by borrowing
money from someone else. Asa matter of
fact, that is what is being done all the
time; and it is all right so long as the re-
borrowing is possible. But it will be all
wrong for the lenders when it isn’t possible.
My boy, a Queenslander, is 144 years old;
is he eligible to join the R.A.N. so as to
qualify for non-commissioned rank? —S396.
No, he is too young; the minimum age
is 17. Officers are entered through the
R.A.N. College, Jervis Bay, and are selected
from boys who attained the age of 13 years
during the calendar year in which the
entrance exam, is held. There is an R.A.N.
Reserve, composed of Citizen Naval trainees;
tliis affords an excellent opportunity for
lads to secure training until they are of
age to enlist in the navy. For further par-
ticulars apply to District Naval Officer,
Naval Staff Office, Edward-street. Brisbane.
How to go about securing a Diploma in
Education in Sydney? —B2Bß.
Before entering upon the course, candi-
dates for the diploma are. required by the
university authorities to produce . evidence
of having graduated in arts, science, econo-
mics or agriculture: agriculture graduates
must have passed the matriculation exam.
It is incumbent on candidates to take the
post-graduate course in the following sub-
jects and to pass the prescribed exams.: —
(1) Educational psychology; (2) principles
and methods of teaching; (3) school
administration; (4) school hygiene; (5)
observation and practice of class teaching.
The course can be taken in one year if
necessary; the fee is £3.
Does Anybody Know?
How to treat a beer cask so that it may
be used in pickling meat?—B392.
llow to stop a doe ferret,from eating her
young at birth?—B326.
Brief Answers.
S.C.T.: Future (including the 8 p.c.) is
doubtful; if you want a large degree of safety you’ll
have to look for it elsewhere. But you’ll not often get a
large degree of safety and 8 p.c H.0.F.: No, there
is not good enough backing. .. .John I).: We don’t
recommend either. But if, being a young man, you
are prepared to take chances for the sake of possibly
big prizes, buy the bonds. You will at least know
what your liabilities are then. . . .Miller: If a soldier-
settler failed for the reasons given, ids business
relations with the department being otherwise satis-
factory, the debt would most probably be written
off. He would, of course, have to supply a state-
ment showing his financial position before a decision
would be given. .. . R.F.H.: (1) See reply to No.
8356 this issue. (2) Not unless you could get first-
hand instruction.... Mrs. G.: It would be silly to
consult a phrenologist to ascertain what trade you
should put your lad to; take him to the Director
of Vocational Guidance, Department of Education,
Sydney....J.H.: The first electric tramway in Sydney
ran along Military-road, N.S. ; it was opened on
September 20, 1893. Electric tramways did not
arrive in Melbourne untii May, 1910. .. .Emerald
Sea: (1) Making a search. (2) Besides “Such Is
Life,” Joseph Furphy (“Tom Collins”) wrote an-
other novel, “Rigby’s Romance.” His verse was
published in 1916 by the Lothian Cos., Melbourne, the
title being “The l’oems of Joseph Furphy”....
F.C.:' It can only be cured. Mix bran with warm
water to make a thin, sloppy paste ; fill and completely
cover the bag and keep in a cool place. The bran
will ferment in 24 houi's. Leave the bag for another
48 hours, wash and dry away from sun and wind.
Use a wooden container (box or bucket) for the
bran... .H.M.M.: Liver extract is used in the treat-
ment of pernicious anaemia; have no knowledge as
to whether it is any good for blood pressure....
J.H.H.: As far as we know it is practised only by
qualified medical men, and they would instruct only
qualified men. . . .E.G.: Agree entirely with your local
doctor; rest without excitement is vital.... H.F.:
A copy of the Commonwealth Invalid and Old-age
Pensions Act can be obtained from the Sub-Treasury,
Commonwealth Offices, Martin-place, Sydney... .B.D. •
(1) Dr. C. W. B. Littlejohn, 14 Collins-street;
and W. D. Upjohn, 12 Collins-street—both of Mel-
bourne. (2) Angus Mac Donnell, 144 Flinders-street,
Melbourne. . . .J.M.W. : W. E. Doran, Australian In-
land Mission, Carnarvon, W.A H.K.: “Cane
Sugar,” by N. Deerr (505.) ; “Sugar,” by G. Fairrie
(18s.) ; “Cane Sugar and Its Manufacture,” by H.
C. P. Geerligs (255.) ; “Economic Aspects of Cane
Sugar Production,” by F. Maxwell (16s.) —all from
Angus and Robertson, Sydney. .. .K.C.8.: Try
“Mace’s Australian Builders and Contractors’ Price
Book” ; leading booksellers sell it. .. .A.D.T. : Method
too long to print; article on “Stiff Starching” in
the Woman’s Mirror (17/5/’27) will give you all
you require. .. .W.D.: Hemingway and Robertson, 16
Barrack-street; and 1.C.5., 140 Elizabeth-street —
both of Sydney. .. .J.L.: As the use of birdlime is
prohibited in N.S.W., we cannot supply a recipe
W.L.C.: Name of book and page on which state-
ment appears wanted. It is hard to see how' a
Stretched exhaust pipe could account for an im-
perfectly running engine. A partially choked pipe
would, of course, affect the running; that may be
what the writer intended to convey... .H.T.: “Bun-
garribee” means “the burial place of a king”....
P.J.W.: England lost seven wickets for 332 in the
second innings of the third Test match; Chapman
scored five, and there were 29 sundries... .8.G.J.:
Vehicles such as the runabout you mention are
treated as motor-cars; not as cycles, for tariff classi-
fication. Duties payable under tariff item 359(D)
(4) : Chassis, (o) unassembled, free (British Pref.
Tariff), and 174 per cent. (General Tariff) ; ( b )
assembled, 5 per cent. (British) and 25 per cent.
(General). Item 359 (D), Body: (1) single-seated,
each, £3O (British) and £4O (General) ; (2)
double-seated, each, £SO (British) and £6O
(General). Item 333 (A) (1) tyres or (2) covers,
tubes:, 1.6 and. per lb. (British) and 2s. 6d. per lb.
(General) ; or 25 per cent. (British) and 40 per cent.
(General), whichever is the higher. .. .M. 0.: A
owes B 15, B coming to scratch.... J.C.: The
calculations are correct, except the third mixture
which gives the formula 5.2 —12.5 —8.7 instead of
6—14—10. Therefore this high mixture cannot be
made from the given materials; a much richer
superphosphate would have to be used. Sulphate
of potash is guaranteed to contain only 48 per cent,
of potash, but generally contains about 48.5 per
cent H.M.L.: In 1925, according to estimates,
Australia expended £7,775,072 on charities
R.A.R.: The coin “Abrahams” is an Australian token
worth 6d.; the other is a Georgian Id., of no
value... .E.H.: The income referred to need not be
included in the husband’s return, and returns are
unnecessary in the lady’s case if the amount in
question represents her sole income... .W.T.: Don’t
know of any way in which cement could be used.
Washes of neat cement and water mixed to a thin
paste might do, but again they might crack. Try
whitewashing several times, or, if you prefer, appli-
cations of tar or bitumen... .C.M.: The co. was
registered in Sydney on August 31, 1928 ; the address
can be got from the N.S.W. Registrar-General s
Department... .W. 1.: You are too old to learn the
trade in the ordinary way. Carmichaels, 525 Kent-
street, Sydney, conduct a school in which the sub-
ject is taught; it is, however, restricted to those
connected with the printing industry or persons who
own or have a share in a machine. The cost is £2O
for about a two-months’ course... .J.C.: Registrar,
Supreme Court, Brisbane, may be able to help you.
. ...W.R.C.: You can proceed against him in the
District Court by way of default summons. If the
order is in your favor and he fails to comply with
it, his goods will be liable to seizure....S.R.: In
1901 there was one N.S.W. policeman to 634 inhabit-
ants ; in 1911, one to 684 ; in 1921 one to 779
in 1926, one to 792 B.G. J.: Question too general
for specific answer. Among consulting actuaries in
Sydney are: W. R. Day and E. S. AVolfenden, 56
Hunter-street; T. W. Bremner, Martin-place; and
A. T. Traversi, Esplanade, Double Bay; their fees
depend on the particular work they are called upon
to perform... .L.S.: (1) (2) and (3) will take a
little time to collect the data. (4) A patent obtained
in Holland holds good throughout the Dutch East
Indies; cost, about £35. (5) A patent can be
secured in Fiji in the usual way; cost, about £SO.
Suggest you get in touch with Griffith and Hassel,
77 Castlereagh-street, Sydney... .T.L.H.: (1) (3)
and (4) Information not available. (2) Cannot be
ascertained; although on occasions trains conveying
wheat only are run, the majority carry various com-
modities. ... (Many others mailed).


< 3udoVSatteVi Q.S are installed i«Wc
<Rel kbflitoawlTTficieiiev? a^Esggntial
l:
i§§y
n
■
lUt
.
El
3S)
m
m
m
.
TO
■ m
'rh'z ®
-
sfr
■« • ‘ T: ';. -V ■*' ,
&£
5 ' VP
riU*
The Largest Battery in the Commonwealth.
Installed at Castlereagh Street Sub-Station of
the Sudney Municipal Council.
SmS
0
w
mm
%
m
L--» V
■:a
'1
K 3
I >1
x m
Mm
\
Main Battery Room Beam Station, Ballam >
Vic. {Photo, by Barge.')
4
\„ If,
i
m
i
gy
,<Cgjws?fta
s'
*>s
isi
m
a
m
mm
This is a further instance where
Tudor Batteries are selected
by engineers in every part of
the world where absolute reli-
ability is essential.
Tudor Batteries are made in
England.
Tudor Batteries for Country Home
and Farm Lighting Plants are de-
signed and built upon exactly the
same engineering principles as the
largest and most important batteries
for services of public utility and de-
fence. In addition to this, Tudor
Country House Batteries embody all
the latest improvements that have
been specially designed for the con-
venience of country users, including
complete sealing of cells, individual
plate, support, etc.
Australasian Office:
The Tudor Accumulator Co-
Ltd. (London),
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
TUDOR BATTERIES are supplied
exclusively with
DELCO-LIGHT
plants by
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd.,
Sydney.
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd.,
Brisbane.
Messrs. Parsons & Robertson, Ltd.,
Adelaide.
And with
plants by
Messrs. Dangar, Gedye, Ltd., Sydney.
Messrs. Malloch Bros., Perth.
For each of the above plants a special exclu-
sive type of TUDOR BATTERY is sup-
plied, specially designed to meet the individual
requirements of the plants.
TUDOR BATTERIES ARE
MADE IN ENGLAND.
Sitter Accijmuiators


Despair
in the ranks of the rabbit
results in
Delight
among the men who get the
skins if the consignment is
sent to Wincheombe Carson
for sale. They • are specialists
r
in the sale of all classes of skins.
They sell them on commission only, never buying nor
dealing. Top market prices for skins are their
constant aim.
Consign Rabbit, Fox and all other Skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Winchcombe House, or 99-101 Eagle St.,
Bridge St., Sydney, Brisbane.
Royal Agricultural Society of New South Wales.
Royal Easter Show
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY,
27th MARCH to 6th APRIL, 1929.
TEN DAYS SIX NIGHTS.
£l4*ooo PRIZES £14,000
ENTRIES CLOSE-
WINES 19th Februarj'
HORSES (including Trotting Events) 16th February
CATTLE | Bth February
POULTRY, PIGEONS, CANARIES and CAGE BIRDS, 26th and 2 7th February
DOGS and CATS 28th February
AGRICULTURE (including Fruits and Apiculture) Ist March
DAIRY PRODUCE (except Export Classes) Ist March
WOODCHOPPING CONTESTS 1 Ith March
SCHEDULES AND ENTRY FORMS ON APPLICATION.
G. C. SOMERVILLE, Secretary.
Endeavour House, 33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
®T
he Sign oi
QUALITY
The Wunderlich Trademark is
a sign of quality it is your
guarantee of sterling value in
the following materials:—
Art Metal Ceilings, Terra Cotta
Roofing Tiles, Asbestos Cement
(Durabestos) Building Sheets.
Look for the trademark on these
products, when you purchase.
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
THE MAN
ON THE LAND
PAGE
WHAT LIME DOES TO THE SOIL.
“R.D.A.”; “Hatter” (B. 19/12/’2B),
though he writes very sagely on this sub-
|f ct : ™ lls to emphasise the important fact
tnat lime, although a corrective and soil
amendment, acts chiefly as a stimulant and,
as such, easily becomes a soil exhaustant
unless its use is governed by the principles
ot manuring. The application of lime to a
normal soil adds nothing to its fertility,
out adds to productiveness by its stimulative
action in increasing the availability, as plant
foods, of the components of the soil’s fer-
tility and the feeding area of the plant
roots. The result is better fed and larger
root systems with consequent higher pro-
duction per acre, provided that the inherent
fertility is maintained by heavy stocking
and the ploughing-in of crop residues. If
hming i s continued indefinitely without the
addition ot organic matter and mineral fer-
tilisers the result will be decreased pro-
duction, ending in exhaustion, though the
soil be full of lime. Lime and super, applied
in separate operations about one month
apart will prove more efficient, in most
cases, than basic slag.
THE ABUSE OF SUPER.
Hatter”; I should have been disappointed
bad no one challenged my views on the in-
jurious effects of using super, as an entire
manure, because the practice is common and
the more discussion on this point the better
I agree with a good deal that “Malice Stump”
says (B. 26/12/’2B), but to state that “the
only way to supply the deficiency of phos-
phates is to put it into the soil in the form
of super, implies that super, is the only
phosphatic manure, which is, of course,
absurd “Mallee Stump’s” argument briefly
is that lie has used super, alone and in fairly
large quantities for eight years and has
greatly improved the carrying capacity of his
farm. It would have been extraordinary
had he not done so; but the point is that,
unless the soil is calcareous, or he uses some
form of lime other than the gypsum present
in the super., lie is working out his' land and
cannot go on indefinitely with good results.
I lie nature of uis soil will determine how
long he can prosper on these lines. The
presence of lime causes the super, to revert
to a less soluble form, but basic slag 1 is only
slightly less soluble than reverted super. A
dressing of of basic slag on the fallow
and +cwt. of super, with the seed would give
as good or better results, cost less, supply
a useful amount of lime free, and avoid the
wastage due to the excessive use of super.
Manures may actually supply plant food
or they may act chemically on plant food
already present and render it soluble and
therefore available. Super, has a secondary
action in this respect which is exhausting to
the land, and it is therefore of the nature of
a stimulant. It has a strong solvent action
on the soil itself which greatly increases
the amount of matter soluble in dilute acid,
and the net result is to leave the ground
poorer than before. This flood of nourish-
ment can be used only to a limited extent by
the young plants before it is carried away
by the rainfall; the loss according to some
experts is estimated at 75 per cent, in the
case of wheat.
On pastures there is less waste, as the
grass, being already rooted, can utilise more
nourishment, As a top-dressing to a grow-
ing crop it is also less wasteful. But let it
again be emphasised that the presence of
carbonate of lime acts as a corrective to
this waste of soil fertility. The import-
ance of lime in conjunction with super, is
well recognised all over the world. At the
recent International Conference held at
Stockholm, Dr. Ivrugel said: “Conditions,
however, are different if superphosphate is
dressed on soils poor in or devoid of lime;
that is, on soils of acid character. Such
soils, by means of liming, should of course
be converted into a soil with normal re-
action conditions, in order to render the
principal plant food effective and to insure
a good plant development.” It is true that
one fertiliser may neutralise another, for
instance, ammonia must not be mixed with
lime, but surely this is the ABC of farming
and not a point for chemical experts. No
harm will result from mixing phosphatic
manures, though it is preferable to dress the
fallow with basic slag.
WOOD ASHES AS FERTILISER.
“Nisluop”: “Nella’s” observations about
the value of wood ashes and the fertilising
effect of fire in general (B. 2/l/’29) are
at variance with chemical principles. The
burning of vegetable or animal remains
drives off nearly all the phosphoric acid in
the form of phosphorus acid, which is a
gas. This does not imply that wood ashes
are valueless, but simply that burning is a
wasteful way of turning refuse into fertiliser.
Probably the general poverty of Aus-
tralian soils iu phosphates is due to
the aboriginals hunting for small game
with the aid of the firestick and the
readiness of the white settler to burn sur-
plus grass for the sake of the temporary
impetus a portion of the ashes may give to
new growth. I say a portion of the ashes
deliberately because, here in Q’land, at
least, a large portion is blown away by
high winds, leached or carried away by
stormwater. When stormwater is running
old dead grass impedes the flow of water
and enables a larger amount to soak into the
ground than on burnt country. The dis-
advantage of burning does not end here. If
the rains are not sufficient to sustain a con-
tinuous growth, the unprotected new shoots
are wilted by the sun and the ground in
general is dried up much quicker than oil
unburnt country. Grass fires in general are
a national calamity. A good plan would be
to experiment with grasses that do not
readily carry fire to act as firebreaks. What
about Paspalum compressum?
FOWL MANURE.
“Noah Fraid”: Not all poultry farmers
are aware of the high value of fowl manure,
Thousands of men fail on the land because they don t know how to
succeed; many thousands more succeed less than they should because
they lack proper guidance.
“The Bulletin” wants to encourage farmers and scientists who know
to help those who don’t know.
With that object it offers two prizes of £2O and £lO for the most
useful contributions to the “Land” pages during the six months
ending June 30 next.
All contributions submitted, whether published or not, will be con-
sidered in awarding points, and the prizes will go to the winners
of most points.
Points will be awarded for interest and practical usefulness.
The prizes are additional to the usual payment for published
contributions.
and some are careless in the preservation of
this useful adjunct to the business. The
annual production of manure per bird is
about 121 b„ so that 1000 birds produce about
5i tons of manure yearly. When dry this
amounts to approximately 3 tons. It is a
good plan to dust super 1 , or gypsum (floury)
—but not wood ashes —on the floors of the
pens daily, at the rate of lib. to every 41b.
of manure. This will hasten drying and
prevent the less of nitrogen (the most valu-
able constituent) by volatilisation as
ammonia.
The composition of the manure varies
with the food, but a fair average analysis of
the air-dry manure is: nitrogen, 3.5 per cent.;
phosphoric acid, 3.5 per cent.; potash, 1.5
per cent. The market value is £5 a ton.
The admixture of super, does not depre-
ciate this value, but as gypsum does not
contain any of the more expensive plant
foods the use of this material decreases the
value by £1 per ton. If the poultry-farmer
does not use the manure on the farm, he
should have little difficulty in selling it.
LAMBING OFF SHEARS.
“Codon”: In districts where lambing takes
place in the spring it will be found a great
advantage to have the ewes shorn before
lambing commences. This gives the ewes a
much better time during the lambing and
saves big losses which might otherwise take
place among lambs at shearing time.
For a ewe to carry 71b. or 81b. of wool
when she is about to lamb imposes an extra
strain on her strength. In dry weather the
ewe will run about more to get her nourish,-
ment, and if it is warm with it the more
trouble for the ewe. But it is worse if a
lot of rain falls, especially if the lambing-
paddock is composed of rich soil which gets
muddy and spongy. Not only has a ewe
to carry a couple of pounds of moisture in
addition to her fleece, but very often a pound
or two of mud besides. Then, wet soil makes
heavy travelling for the ewe, pulling her feet
out of the mud every step. Unless there is
a very dry camp she lies down in the mud
and carries away a certain amount of the
soil on her belly and points. She is liable
to get cold, too, unless the nights are very
warm, and if it is wet on the night of par-
turition the fact adds to her difficulties.
Sheep in a weak condition need the best at
all times; and this is especially true in re-
gard to lambing ewes.
GRINDING COMBS AND CUTTERS.
“Rob P.”: A deterrent to the more general
use of portable shearing plants is the diffi-
culty experienced by many flock owners in
sharpening the combs and cutters. The job
is full of pitfalls for the inexperienced, but
if the following instructions are observed
good results should be obtained.
For combs use No. 1, and for cutters No.
0 emery cloth, which must be. of the best
quality and undamaged by oil or water.
Thoroughly clean combs and cutters before
attempting to grind them. In glueing the
emery to the discs spread the glue evenly on
both discs and cloths with a brush, after
which place the discs in the clamps provided
and leave until quite dry. In grinding both
combs and cutters, apply the heels, never
the points, to the grinding surface ; then press
the whole surface lightly but firmly on to
the spinning disc. Hold for a moment, then
move across the face of the disc with an easy,
sweeping motion from side to side, inspect-
ing frequently until entirely new surface and
cutting edges are given to the comb or
cutter.
Do not dab or press heavily, and don’t
tense the arm and wrist muscles unneces-
sarily. Blueing is a sign of too much pres-
sure.’ and the result will be uneven grinding,
poor cutting edges and distempered steel.
Dabbing and a tense wrist and arm will also
result in unevenness. Applying the points
first will ruin both combs and cutters. Worn
or dirty emery cloths cannot possibly grind
an even surface, so discard cloths as soon as
they show the least imperfection.
SHEEP-FARMING ECONOMICS.
“Rington”: In my comment on above (B.
9/l/’29) I referred specially to running
wethers on one-sheep-to-the-acre property.
To estimate what ewes and lambs might
bring in is much more difficult. It is a
perennial subject of debate among graziers
as to which pays the best over an average
of years. Probably more could be made
from ewes in good years, and certainly more
could be lost over them in bad ones. This
does not refer to breeding cross-bred lambs
on cultivation paddocks, but to the grazier’s
practice of breeding merino lambs on natural
pastures. A bad season for two or three
months at a critical time might mean big
losses among ewes and lambs, whereas adult
wethers would not be affected at all. A
few months of dry weather just before lamb-
ing means tlmt scores of ewes will be dying
from impaction caused by lack of green
feed. A few months dry’ just at lambing
time means scores of dead lambs. A few
months dry just after lambing means scores
of lambs pinched and undersized, and if
there is indigo-pea or any other evil thing
that they can get at, so much the worse.
Taking all things into consideration, it is
safe to assume that over a ten-year average
ewes will do no better than wethers.
OLD OR YOUNG EWES.
“Gaco” : He was a wise old squatter who,
upon his son £oing out into the world,
warned him against three evils —slow horses,
fast women and old ewes. But with the
high prices which have ruled for sheep
latterly there is something to be said for the
old ladies, if they ar e not too old. If their
mouths are still sound they should be good
for a couple more lambings, and, provided
the season is good, in two years there will
be at least one young sheep for each old
one. and both lots will have paid their way
with their wool and the value of what is
left of them at the end of the period. What
is left of the old ewes should be fattened
off, if possible, or sold to some one who
can fatten them, at the best price obtainable.
In a good year an old ewe will breed a
lamb just as well as a young one will and
she will mother it better. In a bad year
one will be as bad as the other.
The respective prices to be paid for the
purchase of the ewes must be considered.
On a recent occasion two neighbors each
bought a mob of 1000 ewes. One bought 7-
year-olds at 10s. per head; the other bought
3-year-olds at 30s. per head. In two years
they both had 1000 young sheep, the old
ewes had shrunk to 700 and the young
ones to !)00. The old ewes had brought
in *s. worth of wool each year; the young
ones had brought in 12s. worth each year.
The old ewes were then worth 55., and the
young ones, which were getting old. too,
were worth 15s. How did the respective
finances stand? Something like this:—
Old ewes: wool for two years, say .. .. £r,25
Now worth .. 175
, . . £7OO
Ueduct original cost 500
T £2OO
Interest on £5OO, two years 6 p.c. ~ 60
Net profit
Young ewes: wool for two years, say .. £ll4O
Now worth 670
, £lBlO
Deduct original cost 1500
r , £3lO
interest on £l5OO, two years C p.c. .. 180
Net profit
CONTRACT DROVING.
“Drover”: “FY7” (B. 26/12/'2B). in dis-
cussing droving contracts, mentions what he
calls a new method, under which drovers
take cattle at a higher rate than ordinary
and bear all losses. This is really a revival
of an old system. It was never satisfactory to
the owner, for if any cattle were lost or
maimed the drovers generally were not able
to settle, and in cases of quarantine through
red-water or pleuro where cattle were held
up for long periods, drovers were not able
to meet their obligations to their hands, and
the onus of settlement fell on the owner.
The most successful method for both owner
and drover is the weekly contract system, the
drover being paid so much per 100 per week,
with a margin of time for delivery. The
owner has to bear expenses incurred through
disease breaking out, of through losses on
the trip, but most drovers look for another
mob from the same station and take adequate
care.
WOOLPACKS.
“Fibre”: The day of the freak woolpack
seems to be over, for though Bradford has
been shown several new types recently, they
do not seemto have aroused much enthusi-
asm. Papere’d, all-wool and rubberised packs
have gone into the discard in the face of
the growing vogue of carbonisation, which
not only burns out burrs without injuring
the wool, but also destroys the once-dreaded
jute fibres. This has made the old style wool-
packs quite satisfactory, which will be good
news to the owners of the vast plants de-
signed and operated for turning them out in
India and elsewhere.
WOOL AND TOP-DRESSING.
“Nitrates”: The question as to whether
top-dressing pastures will affect wool quality
has been debated, and to settle the argument
the N.S.W. Government carried out some
experiments in various districts in N.S.W.
The only property on wdiich the experiment
has been m progress for a year, from one
shearing to another, is that of, C. E. Prell,
near Crookwell. Forty young Corriedale
wethers carrying a comeback type of wool of
GO's quality were selected. After shear-
ing in November, 1927, 20 were put
on natural pasture and 20 on top-dressed
for the 12 months until the next shearing.
The sheep on the natural pasture were
moved into several paddocks during the year,
the stocking averaging about three sheep to
the acre. The top-dressed paddock w T as 50
acres in extent, and, in addition to the 20
wethers, carried 200 rams for the greater
part of the year, this amounting to about
five sheep per acre. The paddock had been
top-dressed with lOOcwt. superphosphate in
1926. and planted with subterranean clover
and introduced grasses. The wethers on the
natural pasture averaged 1171 b. body wmight,
12Jlb. fleece, of GO’s quality valued at 24d.
per lb., and a value per sheep of 245. 3d.
On the top-dressing, body weight was 1371 b.,
fleece weight 141 b., and quality of latter
sS's, while the value per pound was 22d.
and the value per sheep 255. Bd. Though the
wool from the natural pasture was more
attractive than the other, the heavier fleece
from the top-dressed pasture sheep more
than made up for its lack of quality.
TIIE EMBARGO ON MUTTON.
“Almanac”: I accept “A. J.B.’s” correc-
tion (B. 19/12/’2B) as to the cause of what
I termed a ban on Australian mutton, but


U -
A
r<>
The boot for
extra comfort
With shapely upper curved to rest
easily over the instep. . . .dropped
at back of ankle to eliminate "catch-
ing” and to fit closely. . . .and with
a non-chafing heel that comfortably
grips the foot.
The toe is squared and roomy, and
the flexible sole of the toughest
leather that can be obtained.
Order by post
Three fittings for each full and half-
size. . . .narrow, medium and wide.
No “breaking-in” needed. Specify
width when ordering and ask also
for a supply of the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin).
TAN CALF 45/-
BLACK CALF 45/-
PATENT LEATHER . . 55/-
New, enlarged catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 81 years
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
LlOB.
Send To Sydney
e
If you "'ant
your money’s
worth, buy
from the firm
which sells over
two thousand a
year with satisfaction to all.
Here’s the Wonder
Saddle of Australia.
THE BONSER
STATION POLEY.
A high-dlaiss saddle made on
a steel barplated tree, of
kip leather. Narrow waist,
long flaps, leather panel
points; Perfect fit and style.
Complete with 4 bar-stirrups,
leathers, ring surcingle, folded girth.
Only £7/10/-
Freight Free in
Q. or N.S.W.
What a Bargain! January only.
JOHN BRUSH,
THE SADDLE SPECIALIST,
371 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
434 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Have you tried
a Shampoo
with
Cuticura
•
You will be delighted.
Cuticura Ointment applied
directly to the scalp softens the
scales of dirt and dandruff and
cleanses the pores. The re-
markably soft and creamy lath-
er of Cuticura Soap quickly
cleanses the hair and restores
its natural lustre.
There is no other treatment
so effectual as this simple and
satisfying method of promoting
the health of the scalp and as-
suring a luxuriant growth of
live, glossy hair.
Cuticura Soap and Cuticura Oint-
ment Is. each. Acknowledged by
millions for 50 years as the most re-
liable and efficient toilet preparations
for the care of the Skin and Hair.
Send for trial treatment and direc-
tions for shampooing your hair the
Cuticura way. Address: R.Towns
& Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
If any illustration in Tiie Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
DO YOU WANT TO EARN MORE MONEY?
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life. A profession in
which competition is limited and which offers wonderful opportunities if you have any ability
and are persevering. Our tuition gives opportunities to students not to be found elsewhere.
Write for our booklet, telling of positions, salaries and fees, to-day. Start your new career NOW.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED
A.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £250,000
ALL CLASSES OF INSURANCE EFFECTED.
Probate Disability, Extended Insurance, Non-Forfeiture,
Hospital, Medical and Nurse’s Fees Combined.
Make the event which causes the tax create the cash to pay the tax.
HEAD OFFICE: Hunter House, 26 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
McLEAN, Managing Director. R. V. BOOTH, Secretary.
INQUIRIES INVITED.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND AND FINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY. Also at WAGGA & HENTY, LONDON, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE.
Auction Sales
Throughout the Year
5 WOOL, FAT STOCK, GRAIN, SHEEPSKINS,
l HIDES, TALLOW, FURRED SKINS, etc.
Cash Advances on Pastoral Properties and Stock, Wool, Grain and Produce.
Offices: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney. JAMES KIDD, General Manager for Australia.
j'Sm
//lA.i
~ ! r.,7
"/ '■“kutmu ,
(( Ui.
■MUSS’
WMm
MM
n«nl
OII<U‘
ueil
««y
'v)n!W!
Top-dress over 200 Acres per Day with
The
16FT. SPEED
TOP-DRESSER
Attachable to tail of motor-truck. Chain-feed action spreads
fertiliser (or seed) with remarkable evenness. Easily regulated.
CRUMP
Direct-drop Chain-feed Machines,
also Fan-type.
Free Booklet.
CRUMP MACHINERY CO.
12 Carlisle Street, St. Kilda, 5.2.
Name
Address
T.D.B.
I maintain that there is a ban. Inspection
of the glands is done by running the fingers
over the parts where the glands are located.
Where the slightest suspicion exists in the
inspector's mind these glands are incised,
and if the official thinks fit he may reject
the carcase. For this reason we have
always exported a proportion of our mutton
with some or all three glands incised. The
prescapular lymphatic gland being in the
shoulder, the precrural in the flank and the
scrotal in the cob, the incisions heal in the
freezing without detracting much from the
appearance of the carcase. These facts have
always been known to oversea inspectors, so
that when the edict of compulsory incision
went forth under penalty of refusal of
admission of mutton, it was assumed that
this applied also to the gland in the leg,
about which there had been some former
question, and as the incising of the latter
meant disfiguring the carcase, there was
some concern until definite particulars
became available.
This order was issued without any warn-
ing and as a consequence unincised ship-
ments were held up for weeks. “A.J.B”
says that the Argentine was included in
this regulation, but at first Australia was
the only country affected. As lymphadenitis
is not confined to our country, Australian
officials wanted to know why we were
singled out for special attention. It was
then, and only then, that Argentina, Para-
guay and other countries were included.
“A.J.8.” is wrong in saying that no re-
search into the cause of these gland diseases
has been attempted here. Dr. Bull, of Adel-
aide, has been investigating for some time,
and the School of Veterinary Science at
Glenfield (N.S.W.) is also engaged in
research on the subject. The work is based,
I understand, on the hypothesis that the
root of the trouble is a germ in the soil, and
search is being made for a counteracting
vaccine. The trouble is not hereditary and
it lias been proved that it is not infectious.
At least one flock in the Camperdowm (Vic.)
district is not affected by the trouble, and it
is believed that the soil on which these
sheep are bred and reared is free of the sus-
pected germ. Maorilanders who claim they
have never seen this trouble in their sheep
may not have inspected an aged carcase, for
the older the beast the more pronounced
are the symptoms.
STOMACH PARASITES.
“Codon”: Stomach parasites in sheep,
especially worms, are spreading into dis-
tricts in N.S.W. where they have never
been known up till quite recently. Old
hands in some of the drier districts are hard
to convince that their sheep could ever
have worms, because their district has always
been free of them. But younger and more
enterprising men in those districts occasion-
ally drench. Wisely, too; for it is very pro-
bable that as the sheep population moves
about from one district to another they carry
worms and other parasites with them. If
conditions are favorable at any time in a new
district for the worms to thrive, if only for
a few months, there is no doubt they will,
and do a lot of damage.
. A HOME-MADE STOCK LICK.
“Noah Fraid”: A farmer in South Gipps-
land (Vic.) with a holding in cripple coun-
try has had no trouble since he took the
advice of a vet. and made a stock lick on
the following formula: 3 bags coarse salt
(1871 b. each) ; 1 bag finely ground rock
phosphate (1871 b.) previously sprinkled
with 3 quarts of water, in which was dis-
solved 12oz. potassium iodide; 281 b. sulphate
of iron; 281 b. flowers of sulphur; 281 b.
Epsom salts, and 501 b. molasses (about 5
gallons) to increase palatability. The whole
is well mixed and finally sieved twice through
a quarter-inch sieve.
The dearest ingredient is the potassium
iodide. The formula makes approximately
Bcwt., and the materials cost about 60s.
The farmer places the powdered lick on
the top of stumps—a foot high for sheep
and up to 3ft. high for horses and cattle—the
top of the stump being hollowed out to
serve as a receptacle. On the south and
west sides a piece of tin is nailed to protect
the lick from the weathqr.
Prior to using the lick every animal on
the place, including rabbits, made a habit of
stripping or barking all the trees—appa-
rently seeking the minerals in the sap—but
the practice has stopped with the advent of
the lick.
USEFUL SORGHUMS.
“Zick”: I am with “Taffy” (B. 2/l/’29)
all the way when he champions sorghum for
fodder. I go further and say that many of
the grain sorghums are among the most
valuable crops the mixed farmer in a dry
area can plant. During the eighties of last
century the Western States of U.S.A. went
through a gruelling drought, and, following
this period, grain sorghums came into their
own in that country. In 1893 there were
47,000 acres of grain sorghums (mostly
Kaffir) planted in Kansas; nine years later
there were 750,000 acres under the crop.
There are hundreds of varieties of sorghum,
but the best known grain sorghums are
Milos, White Kaffir, Black Hull Kaffir,
Kaoliangs (of Chinese origin) and Feterita.
On a farm in the dry belt in Southern
Q’land where Feterita was grown, the stalks
and flag were used as cow feed, the grain
fed pigs and poultry, and on being put
through a grist mill the coarser meal was
used as calf food and porridge for the
family. The finer meal, mixed with varying
proportions of wheat flour, made excellent
muffins, brown bread, corn cakes and pan-
cakes. This farmer is never without a crop
of Feterita in the season, and attributes
much of his success to the help given by
this drought resister.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Has tropical agriculture made any pro-
gress in North Australia? —5335.
Not much, although it has been proved
that rice, tobacco, cocoanuts, mangoes,
bananas, cotton, various fodder plants and
peanuts can be grown. A few small cocoa-
nut plantations are doing well, but thus far
planting has not been attempted on a large
scale. Cotton plots have also yielded well,
but difficulty in obtaining labor is a draw-
back. Abo. labor is very uncertain; the
time for cotton-picking coincides with an
abundance of native food. In 1926 40 acres
were under cotton compared with 125 acres
in 1925. About 180 acres were planted with
peanuts and about 35 tons were harvested,
compared with 70 acres and 24 tons in the
previous year. When the South-North rail-
way arrives tropical agriculture will have
a far greater chance.
(1) The best method of destroying wattle,
and (2) the best time for burning without
the seed germinating? —797l.
(1) If the wattle is of a variety that does
not sucker, cut the seedlings when they are
quite young with a broad chipping hoe. In
dealing with varieties that are liable to
sucker it is necessary to mattock or plough
them out after rain. (2) No time can be
definitely stated when the burn can be car-
ried out without the seed germinating.
What would be a fair share-farm agree-
ment to work a 1200-acre block in the Vic.
Malice? The farm is equipped with every-
thing necessary? —B23l.
A frequent arrangement, and one that would
possibly suit here, is for the owner to supply
machinery, horses, seed, manure and his
own bags, taking two-thirds of the produce.
In return the share-farmer would supply all
labor entailed in growing and harvesting the
crop, and also his proportion of the bags.
Each man would be responsible for carting
and marketing his own share of the wheat.
flow old are (1) turkeys, (2) ducks and
(3) fowls when they begin to lay? What
age is the best selling (4) turkeys, (5)
fowls and (6) ducks? (7) Can turkeys be
hatched in an incubator? (8) What is the
best hatching season for all three? —8821.
(1) 10 to 12 months; (2) 6 to 7 months;
(3) 5 to 6 months; (4) 8 to 10 months;
(5) 5 to 7 months; (6) 14 to 16 weeks;
(71 Yes; (8) June till end of September.
Much will depend upon the season in which
the birds are hatched, methods adopted in
feeding and raising and also the breed of
fowl in many of the questions.
I have a plum-tree in its third year which
has only about a dozen plums. Shall I cut
away all those long “streamers” now or
leave till the leaves fall off? —8215.
Many plums do not crop heavily the third
year after planting. Unless the long leaders
are gagging the tree badly out of shape, it
is generally better to wait till the tree is
dormant before shortening them back. Short-
ening the lateral growth during the latter
part of the growing period sometimes hastens
a tree into cropping. Japanese plums mostly
crop well in the N.S.W. coastal districts,
but many of the European plums are slow
croppers on the coast. Suggest you procure
pamphlet on “Pruning Deciduous Fruit-
trees,” issued by N.S.W. Agriculture De-
partment.
(1) What are the best table fowls, and
would it be advisable to raise them for com-
mercial purposes on the Murrumbidgee Irri-
gation Area, (N.S.W.)? (2) What is the
market price for table fowls? —8214.
(1) The best table fowls are Australian
and Indian game, or a cross with game and
some of the heavier dual purpose breeds,
such as Buff Orpingtons and Plymouth
Rocks. Would not recommend you to
specialise in table poultry, as some of the
commercial breeds, such as Black Orpingtons
and Langshans, will give greater returns.
(2) The market price of table poultry
varies considerably during the year, but
prime colored roosters usually bring up to
17s. per pair if put on the Sydney market in
good condition.
How can I get assistance from the N.S.W.
Rural Bank to improve a homested selection
upon which I have resided for two years? —
8176.
Advances are granted on the security of
certificated homestead selections up to two-
thirds of the official sale value. If the
holding is not certificated, a loan may be
made up to the full value, of improvements,
provided such advance does not exceed two-
thirds of the sale value. Application may be
made at the nearest branch of the bank or
to, the secretary, Government Savings Bank,
Martin-place, Sydney.
(1) Name of school in Sydney where
instruction on sheep-shearing machinery can
be obtained? (2) Titles of books dealing with
sheep and wool? —8356.
Dalgety’s conduct a school at Miller’s
Point; the fee is £lO for a period limited
to three months. There are no classes be-
tween the end of June and the end of
January. (2) “Australian Sheep and Wool,”
by A. Hawkesworth (255.) ; “Sheep, Farm
and Station Management,” by E. H. Pearse
(215.) : “The Sheep and Wool Industry of
Australasia,” by 11. B. Smith (95.) ; “Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Sheep Farming,”
by J. R. MacDonald (155.) ; “Classing the
Clip,” by C. E. Cowley.
“Eureka”: A kerosene- or petrol-tin will
hold 18 pounds of pollard, 12 pounds of
bran, 12 pounds of lucerne meal, 30 pounds
of wheat (whole), 28 pounds of maize
(whole), 25 pounds of maize, (cracked), 4
gallons of water, milk. etc.
“Rington”; Notwithstanding the many
new wheats which have been introduced in
recent years, one of the old ones still stands
high in favor. Yandilla King was a popular
wheat 30 years ago, and is still grown exten-
sively. holding a very creditable place among
the winning crops in the Riverina competi-
tions. Another old favorite which still holds
its own is Marshall’s No. 3, though we never
hear of Marshall’s No. 1 or No. 2. and most
people have forgotten who Marshall was.
“Waipaoa”: Re that gland disease, Lym-
phoadenitis, which is bringing Australian and
Maoriland mutton into disfavor in Britain.
The only theory on the subject I have heard
stated is that the disease is due to old, con-
taminated pastures, and that when these
pastures are ploughed the disease disappears.
Possibly top-dressing would eliminate the
disease.
“Silentio”: On the big stations in N.
Q’land are thousands of petrol-tins, lying in
heaps. In the Longreach district a settler
has made quite a decent shanty by filling the
tins with soil and placing them one on top
of the other. The sides are held in place by
a light framework of saplings and wire. The
shanty is one of the coolest spots you could
wish for in hot weather. A verandah all
round and a few pots of paint keep the rust
from eating the tins away.


m
mmm
'4mM
wm f *'v;. •* -v'-sy
, -
. .-. .••
,?■
\\ v&
4.1
Hite
'rntmLiSM,
:-l‘
■
},;■:. :■
■ ■•v:;w
/
faf 7\
■m
■ j
cIC
r -
i
SWEEPING into the market only
a few weeks ago, the Silver
Anniversary Buick has already
won countrywide recognition as
the new style—the new mode —in
motor cars!
Motorists have been quick to recog-
nise that this wonderful new Buick
with its magnificent body is not
only a supremely beautiful car but a
thrilling turning - point in body
design. And recognising this fact,
men and women on every street...
in every city and town are
eagerly acclaiming the new mode.
Here are dashing new lines, different
from any heretofore known—longer,
larger
less ir
gorge
riches
ments
vidine
passei
and 1
equal!
—and,
lines
new'
to lent
distinc
The n
that h
is caus
all pre’
to satis
m
Hie Silver Annive
Prices from
METROPOLITAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MELBOURNE: Lane’s Motors Pty. Ltd., Exhibition Street.
BRISBANE : Metropolitan Motors Ltd., Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY : Boyd E
ADELAIDE: Vivia-
PERTH: E. D. Toe Motors Ltd., Milligan Street.


-
re luxurious body, match*
r grace and symmetry —
lew color harmonies —the
upholsteries and appoint-
-11-width rear seats pro-
ity of room for three adult
>—an ensemble of beauty
y that has never been
dition, new and deeper radiator
3-ted head-lamps and cowl-lamps
and fender design—all combining
mparable poise, fleetness, and
aick is the new style—a style
instant popularity—a style that
- great Buick factories to break
of production in an effort
aiversal demand.
*
Prove it yourself——?
like this/
Co
me in
—arrange to take
the wheel of this
great new car—We
want all prospective
purchasers to make
this test.
fary
to
► Phillip Street,
td., Franklin Street.
BUICK
Warranted for One Year
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE SYDNEY BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH


(xpress
333
• ••• pggf fggg H |§ggggggpe
-.
i£\
o'
saaf^jfpM
- 4
-
20 for 1/6
ARDATH TOBACCO
C&tI& L LdNDCt&
IVORV
•TIP*
SMOKE-OH!
Rumored that Melbourne barrackers will
be restricted in future to six bawls to the
over.
* *
The race for wealth is usually won by a
nose.
*
In choosing a wife many gentlemen prefer
bonds.
Sydney Evening News: “She decided
that ‘true hearts are more than cornets.’ ”
And leading authorities are with her. “Less
than cornets, more than saxophones” is the
appraisement of the scientific world.
V *
SHERLOCKED !
I passed her in the busy street.
And. said “Hello!” Her twinkling feet
Sped on apace. I roared “ Hello!”
And when cold silence like a blow
Smote me a second time, I knew
She earned a ’phone-girl's modest screw.
H. B.
* *
IN 1.908.
“I doubt if she’s a good woman. The story
goes that she powders her face and smokes.”
“Let one of my girls expose her legs in
the surf. Never!”
“She can’t be quite nice. She divorced her
husband, you know!”
“A disgustingly, immodest hussy ! Shows
FLIGHTS OF FANCY.
STUDENT (inspecting Chalk’s latest drawings ): “Your husband
seems to have wonderful imagination.”
MRS. CHALK: “Yes, indeed, he often gets the idea that he’s head
of the house.”
her ankles freely, and is known to have left
her stays off more than once.”
“Innocent? Why, she knows no more about
such things than a scliool-girl!”
“No, we don’t go in for these vulgar Ameri-
can dances. The waltz, polka and Lancers
are good enough for us.”
“Mind you, it may be all right, but it’s
surely rather funny for the two of them
to go driving in his motor-car without a
chaperone!”
“Do they golf? Certainly not! It’s far
too strenuous for girls!”
“How absurd to talk of a European war.
You forget that we’re civilised nowadays!”
Doric.
There is talk of including a couple of Mel-
bourne bomb-tlirowers in the next Test. They
get bail so easily.
*
“S.V.D.”: Here is my answer to the asses
who argue that private enterprise is prefer-
able to State control:—
Melbourne Board of Works charges me Is.
per 1000 gallons for water.
The local milkman’s price is Bd. a pint.
¥ *
THE WAY OF THE TRANSGRESSOR.
(A suburban drama in V Acts.)
I. Jones secretly poisons and buries his
wife’s cat.
11. Her uproarious grief upsets him.
111. Hoping to assuage it he:
(a) Buys her a new hut.
(b) Buys her a new dress.
(c) Takes her to a theatre.
(d) Says she can have her detested young
nephew to stay.
(e) Buys nephew a meccano set.
(f) Offers £5 reward for cat.
IV. Strangers begin to arrive with cats.
V. Mrs. Jones identifies one as hers.
Les. R.
* *
TEACHING AMERICA.
“American knowledge of Australia is still lament-
ably poor, but efforts are now being made by several
of the more enlightened journals to dispel the general
ignorance.” —Returned Australian traveller.
A few extracts from an informative article
in the Oshkosh (Neb.) Screaming Eagle
will give some idea
of the strength of
this movement: —
“The Common-
wealth is wonder-
fully prosperous. It
crops a bigger acre-
age of national
debts than any
country of its
population in the
world. Great
national industries
are horse-racing,
two-up, strikes,
Test matches, and
selling cathedrals
and other public
buildings at bar-
gain rates to sim-
ple-hearted visitors.
“The capital city
is Canberra, built
on a waste of
money, slightly s.-e.
of the world-
renowned Country
Club. Callan Park.
Its industries are
party politics and
gas-producing. Re-
cently liquor
licenses were
granted. The popu-
lation immediately
bought ten beers and
then arrested itself
on a charge of
drunkenness.
“The President is
Mr. Jock Garden,
0.8. E. His official
residence, corres-
ponding to our
White House, is in
Brisbane, Mel-
bourne, on the
Yarra, a river
notable for its
famous bend. Everybody goes on the Bend in
this part of Australia —hence the enormous
value of brewery shares. The Yarra Bank is
one of the great financial institutions of the
Commonwealth, and Mr. Garden is a direc-
tor. Politically he is a strong conservative,
believing that all privileges should be re-
served for a little group of aristocrats known
as the ‘Reds.’
“The animals of the Commonwealth are
many and fierce. The Barracker, which
lives mostly in bars and has been described
by a local poet as ‘raucous and grim,' the
Jimmy Woodser, the voracious Earbiter, the
Hog-motorist and the Wowser all afford
exciting sport to those who can afford swift
horses and reliable long-distance rifles. Every
year thousands are stung by the savage
Gogetter.
“One of the most popular sports is known
as ‘shouting.’ The players gather in a
HIS HANDICAP.
FIRST STRAPHANGER: “It’s rotten having to
wait so long for a seat, isn’t it?”
SECOND DITTO: “You’re dead lucky. I gotta
wait for two!”
public place and take turns to shout. When
each has had his turn, the first player starts
again. The game often lasts”for hours, and
the winner is the player who remains stand-
ing at the conclusion. Gurgling sounds fol-
low each shout, and it is a noteworthy fact
that the throats of leading performers are
not nearly so badly affected as their stom-
achs, pockets and heads. Shouting is one
of the few world-championships which are
still claimed by Australia.”
¥ ¥
The moon is known to sway the tide
On our romantic coast;
But this will hardly he denied —
It sways the untied most!
* *
PEOPLE I LOATHE.
The man who insists upon returning the
compliment. Entertained at lunch, he re-
sponds with a counter-lunch.
The man who says “I told you so,” and
whose conversation is ns if he tolled us.
The good listener who never shouts.
The man who borrows money and says he
will be for ever in your debt —and is.
P. P.
* *
Most disqualifications run true to stipe.
* *
British feminists are demanding the
appointment of women to diplomatic posts.
They are supported by every sincere oppo-
nent of secret diplomacy.
TOO GOOD TO BE TRUE.
“This is Australian-made. We sell noth-
ing else.”
“Yes, you can write on both sides of the
paper; and we don’t object to red type.”
“There wull be nae collection ta-day.” ‘
“I won’t want a new dress this year, dear.
Buy yourself cigars with the money.”
“Yes, this wire will be delivered in 12
minutes.”
“You vant a loan? Right. Vill 2 per cent,
suit?”
“Seats for the Test? Certainly. You can
have a couple in the middle of the pavilion.”
“He took me everywhere while you were
away, darling, but I never so much as let
him squeeze my hand.”
W. H.
A POOR SELECTION.
Upon the lady in the dock,
With dark judicial frown,
Seeking her nonchalance to shock,
The magistrate peered down.
“Guilty or not?” he sternly asked.
She smiled a weary smile,
As though she by a counter basked,
Her boredom to beguile;
As one fed up with sellers’ pranks,
She made her answer suave:
“/ do not care for cither, thanks.
Are those all that you have?”
H. B.
THE SPECIALIST.
/.Esthetic souls! No malice do I bear
Against your “period pieces” old and rare;
I smile politely when, with manner sage,
You shite about your treasures and their age.
But for myself / hold no higher vision
That that which spurs you to unkind deri-
sion.
Only one ancient product wins my cheers,
Scotch whisky mellowed by the weight of
years!
D. McM.
TRIED AND TREW.
Roy Riteone stood at the mane marst of
the Prowd Ship Jane which was filling
rappidly. She had struck an Unchartered
Rock.
“Wimmin and Childern first!” was the
Dispairing Cry, as the crew Prepared to un-
hook the Life Boats. Strong men trembled,
and severall Wept. Not so our Hero, how-
ever. The Our of Peril found him as Im-
piturrbabul as a Lion.
Roy had Run away to Sea because he was
misunderstood on Land. His Stern Male
Pa riant had Refused to let him go to the
Pitchers, and his Employer, who was Manag-
ing Director of the good ship Jane, had
threttened him with the Sack for Droring
Plans of Steemers on Blotting Pads. Little
did the bersotted Cappitalist No of what
use that innercent divershun was to be.
Roy next makes his apperiance in the
roll of Stowaway aboard the Jane, and
Crule indeed had been the Captin’s Conduck
on discuvvering the hiroik lad crouching in
a Barril of Treekle. But now the time had
come for Roy to show himself in the Rite
Lite. Some Unseen Powwer might have
put that Rock there on purpose. “Avarst!’’
lie cried nortically. “Leave orl to me and
feer Nort.”
So saying he dove ovorbord.
His noledge of Ships had given him the
Rite Ideer. Swimming under watter by the
ship’s side, he discovered the Whole 'made
by the Rock, and sat in it. From his posi-
shun between, as the saying goes, wind and
water, he barked out Rnppid Orders, and
the Ship’s Company rushed to Obey them.
“Orl hands to the Pumps,” cried the Brave
Boy, and, as an after thort, “ including the
Captain.” None thort of queschuning his
Will —not even the Cursing Captain.
But, oh, Horror! A shark is seen! A
Thrill of Dismay runs threw orl as they see
it’s Hungry Eye fixed on its Pray. Roy
heard the Yewnited Screem of Horror from
above as the Shark, with Gapping Jaws,
rushed at him. They flung a rope down.
Imploring him to Save Himself. But, no!
With Karm Kurridge He Faced the End.
That is how it seemed to the Anckshus
Spectators. But Our Hero Knew better.
The Shark was Only three feet off when
Roy herled himself vilently backwards. Then
rushing to his Bunk, he kort up a Football
Bladder and a Pump and dashed back again.
“We are Saved!” the passengers cried
joyfully as they Reerlised His Purpose.
The Shark, a creeehure without the Capa-
city to Think Quickly, had in its Eegerness
to partake of Our Hero, jambed itself
through the whole. Nashing its Jaws in
Omnipotent Furry, it seized the Bladder
which Roy flung into its Dredful More and
swallered it. Immedjetly Roy began to
Pump, and continewed until the Distended
body of the Monster of the Dope was like
to Bust.
s|: * * , *
Little more need be Tolled. The Manag-
ing Dirrektor came to Meet the Ship, so
Mirackulusly Saved, when it returned to
THE BEST OF US MUST PART.
Port. Judge his Amazement when he dis-
covered that the Idol of the Our was none
other than his Whilom Office Boy. The fack
that he had Omited to Insure the Jane for
that Trip added to his Joy.
“You are no Longer a Meer Office Boy,”
he cried. Corjally I will Pay You Salvage
on the Jane and let you keep the Shark
for exibishun purposes. Ferther, as Assistant
Managing Dirrektor, which I hereby make
you, you will have nothing to do but go to
Cricket Matches and the Pitchers and Dror
ships in Office Ours to your Hart’s Con-
temt.”
HAMER JUNIOR.


...this week we keep the birthday of a nation
'w/r,
I ':
op*}, m
> \
*:c-
'SsA~~
w
gzr...
•u—rrrz.ofitj!~\ Sin
On 0 ‘Pedestal in Macquarie Place,
Sydney, rests this ancient anchor a
link with the fleet which brought
Australia’s first citizens from England.
It is the anchor which moored
H.M.S. "Sirius”, convoy of the First Fleet,
in Port Jackson, 141 years ago.
ON 26th January—a flourishing nation celebrates its birthday.
A nation which ranks among the greatest, richest, and most
virile of the earth’s peoples. And however, or wherever,
you spend this national holiday, include a bottle or two of
“K. 8.,” a product of Australia that is without peer even in
countries of the old world. For in the pure, sparkling draught
of “K.B.” —mellow and rich with the flavor of the malt—low in
alcoholic content, but high in food value—there lies an enjoyment
and a relish that mark it as a beverage which is a credit to Aus-
tralia and a source of satisfaction to all Australians. “K. 8.” is
a TRUE Lager.
TOOTH’S
KB
true LAGER
Brewed and Bottled by TOOTH & CO
LIMITED, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
/,
t
r-\
fcY..
>1
ms®.
m
\\
i? l ssri
*fcA /
rr//
CSIU- Mfcfe
di
St< Si.
o'
£> f
=Ji
#>\v
3*
I I
«f*vi r«
l-• «*
SS
il
BAR#
\
W^3
H
41*'
ilf'fSil
■r
S<7 ///
n
ft
A, w
''■''h«
m
/j
<*
Cj*««Uratv * ' < <'
KL«ac?l« ‘
-^ Jv - Ausmxu*
c.--
w
i
%
%


A wonderful
bodu builder
é
is always^
fresh & pure
❖
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
INTEREST-BEARING FAITH
The person who is faithful to his Savings Acount, year after year,
permitting compound interest to add its cumulative power, has a
far better chance of acquiring something substantial than the
person who habitually speculates on “Sure Things.”
The race is rarely to the swift.
One thing is certain—there is no magic about accumulation, there
are few short cuts, and most of those are dangerous.
It is best after all to find out the surest way, the cumulative way,
and then stick doggedly to it —with interest added at 4% p.a.
Every Post Office is a Savings Bank Agency.
(flbmmonwcaltl) Savings Janli of Hustralia
( Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government).
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
lUSt] :
A-
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
BRACKEN
By BERNARD CRONIN
Illustrations Jyy I/G&SOH
Synopsis : Orphaned on the day of
his birth, .Jasper Leith is brought up
by his uncle and aunt, Hector and
Ann Martin, at Music Ridge, their
Cippsland selection. A heavy drinker,
Martin dies suddenly, and .Jasper, now
in his ’teens, takes charge and makes
the selection comparatively prosper-
ous. His eyes have been turned city-
wards through a friendship with
Ronald Braid, a young artist. He has
saved a fete hundred pounds, and,
ambitious to make more, has decided
to go to Melbourne, whither Lois
Beaument, a fine girl with whom he
shares mutual fondness, has been sent
for schooling. Just before going he
takes a little too much drink at the
Harrises, and to gel out of a compro-
mising situation tells Tod Harris that
he is going to marry his sister Cora.
They marry and go to Melbourne,
where .Jasper's early business venture
is a failure. Their married life is
most unhappy. A child is born and.
dies, Cora nags, and Tod, who has be-
come a racecourse hanger-on, hints to
Jasper that a commercial traveller
named Roughton, with whom Cora had
been very intimate just before her
marriage, and who went hurriedly to
Western Australia, is carrying-on
again with Cora. Jasper, however,
merely says that there’s nothing about
his house worth taking. Meanwhile,
Braid has proposed to Lois and been
lightly rejected.
CHAPTER XIX.
Panacea.
THERE were times when Jasper’s
wretchedness morbidly contemplated
some tragic reply to Cora’s persecu-
tion of his courage and patience. He
trembled lest his restraint should suddenly
desert him ■ and he become a creature of
unbalance crudely punishing, bloody-
minded and bestial. Such horrors he knew'
to be possible. His mind traced them with
a terrible intentness as he lay stark-eyed
in the night, the sweat of fear pricking his
forehead and scalp. It would have been so
appallingly easy to reach out his hand to
Cora’s throat. He felt on such occasions
that his. mind had but to agree to this and
his fingers would spring of their own voli-
tion, would go berserk over the soft
indolence of her slumbering body.
He went for long walks over dark, de-
serted roads, flogging his thoughts into
healthy channels. Without astonishment
he found his, courage taking shape around
the clear, calm sincerity of Lois Beaument.
Thought of Lois was like a cool stream glid-
ing serenely between the tortured banks
of his mind. He was at first vaguely con-
tent to lave in memory alone. Then it
seemed a natural impulse towards reality,
and he found his feet inclining more and
more often, on free evenings, towards her
flat in East Melbourne. Sometimes she
was alone. More frequently others of her
friends would be there, Ronald Braid among
them. Jasper rediscovered his liking for
Ronald. Once, too, he was confronted with
an immaculately contented Albert, who was
all smiles and sheepish laughter, as he
paraded an eight-pound replica of himself,
but lately christened Albert Jasper Beau-
ment. Amy—Jasper persisted in address-
ing her as Miss Sprott in the first moments
of his awkward pleasure—was changed
almost beyond conception. Her manner
was gay, and her voice was lovelier than
ever, with some indefinable melody of
motherhood. Jasper’s thought was queerly
stilled by the happiness of these two.
There was news of Ann Martin. She
IjJ l i wrote so seldom, having
rooted objection to pen and
paper, that Jasper was mostly
left to guess how she fared. The
farm, Albert told him, was looking
first-rate. Everything was growing well.
“Even the ferns, I’ll bet,” Jasper said,
half jokingly.
“Well, they do seem to be coming back
a bit,” Albert drawled. “Your aunt isn’t
doing much cultivating, you see. The
bracken’s still around under the pasture.”
Jasper dismissed the subject lightly.
“It can grow Heaven-high for all I care.
I’m done with the damned thing. Well,
look here, Albert. I’m awfully glad about
the baby. You deserve your luck, you and
Amy. Seems funny me calling Miss Sprott.
—I mean your wife—Amy.”
Lois called them to supper then. After-
wards for a little while she played the piano
to them. It was the Appassionata Sonata
of Beethoven. Jasper listened with closed
eyes.
Music was a fruitful subject of his talks
with Lois. Jasper’s attitude towards good
music was rather unusual. He responded
with exquisite pleasure, but without either
understanding or emotion. His hearing was
susceptible to the genius of sound, but his
mind was incurious and unevocable.
He was roused by her ardent performance,
however, to a more stable appreciation of
what music meant to others, and to Lois
in particular. It was, as she plainly re-
vealed, almost a requisite of her existence.
It gave rich blood to her mind, it opened
the pores of her thought, it cleaned the
channels of her senses. Music was to Lois
an actual vital food, often of ambrosial
flavor, yet containing the lees of acute
mental suffering. It was this anomaly which
puzzled Jasper most seriously. Certain
kinds of music—as, for example, the Rain-
drop Prelude of Chopin—hurt Lois as
might the fall of a rod. He would see her
eyes wince to slow tears, and her face gather
itself to a refinement of sensibility. After-
wards—until he understood—he would wait
for her expression of relief, as though she
had been released from an intolerable and
unwelcome imposition, and was amazed by
the tenderness of her acclaim.
“It makes me seem to float with wings.
No, that isn’t it. It leaves me no body
at all. I’m part of the rain and mist and
moonbeam.”
“But you were crying—almost.”
“Silly, haven’t you ever cried from hap-
piness! But you’re a man.”
“I believe you like to be hurt—like that.”
“I do. Who wouldn’t be? Don’t you
suppose God’s smile will hurt—scorch you?”
Jasper said, frowning: “It sounds like
sadism.”
“Beauty always hurts. It must. So must
self-sacrifice and truth. Every saint is a
sadist in self.”
Jasper said doubtfully: “I’m not clever
enough to follow that. The kind of music
I like best is the sort that thins my blood.
It has to be happy or I don’t want it.”
“I know'. I wish I could say that for my-
self, but I can’t. We’re not allowed the
choice in these things. It’s like being born
with a Roman nose or a taste for pickles.”
“I expect it is.”
“After all,” Lois said dreamily, “music
can’t be interpreted. You see, Jasper, it
isn’t a language, as so many seem to think;
it’s a vehicle of thought. That’s why a
theme brings entirely different emotions to
different people. The Raindrop Prelude
hurts me, but Ronald says that it soothes
him tremendously. And it generally sends
you to sleep or thereabouts.”
Jasper was silently content to watch the
play of her face. When intensely interested
her expression was as gently mutable as
sunshine and shadow. Color came and went
upon her cheek, her fine mouth faltered and
firmed, her eyes subtly reflected each facet
of turning thought.
But the panacea of these meetings was
not for some time after Jasper made a regu-
lar habit of looking in at Lois’s flat. At
the commencement he was too ill in mind
to do more than rest his courage on the
sincerity of her quiet greeting. He would
sit for an hour or two, stupid with his
trouble, dully grateful if alone with her,
that she seemed not to expect him to talk
to her. With perfect understanding of his
mood she would often refrain from talking
herself, and would spend the evening softly
at the piano, while he dozed his exhausted
thought. It was only after many weeks
of this silent havening that his slowly-
refreshed consciousness awoke to doubts
whether he was intruding.
He said abruptly one evening: “I’m afraid
I’ve been making a good deal of a nuisance
of myself. I didn’t realise just how ill and
dull I was.”
“Don’t be silly, Jasper. Of course, I knew
that you were ill. I’ve been glad to—to
help you in any way I could.”
“If you knew what all this has meant
to me,” he said huskily. “It’s been the
difference between sanity and insanity. I
just felt that I couldn’t go on without....
without”....
Lois said, with a faint smile: “Without
your friends. Why, of course not. That’s
what friends are for, isn’t it? You’ve been
worried and upset, but you’re ever so much
better.”
“You’ve been wonderfully kind. If you
won’t mind me still coming”....
She shook her head at him.
“Jasper Leith, what are you talking
about! We’re too old friends to let cere-
mony stand in the way of service, I hope.
And, besides, I like you to come.”
Weeks later again, when he was still more
improved, it occurred to Jasper to wonder
at the refinement of her character. Not
once had she invited his confidence. He
instinctively knew that this was a deliberate
delicacy on her part. She would not add
to his unbalance by even a question, how-
ever suspecting she might be of the cause.
Normally he would have accepted this reti-
cence whilst respecting it. Being obsessed
with self, he was actually a little irked as
time went on that he must unburden him-
self unasked.
He said, being as yet ill enough to be
sometimes irritable: “You know, you
haven’t once wanted to know what was
the matter at the back of all this.”
“I thought that if you wanted me to
know you would tell me.”
“Of course I want you to know.”
Lois raised clear eyes from the silk shade
in her lap.
“Because the cause doesn’t really matter.
It was only your illness that mattered.
And, besides, it isn’t hard to guess.”
“Cora” he began.
“Is this wise, Jasper?”
He made a little defiant gesture. “Why
not? I gave up pretending long ago.
There isn’t any question of loyalty to me
where she’s concerned. I just wanted you
to know the truth. It relieves me to talk.”
“Very well.”
“Life has been hell,” Jasper said simply.
He was silent a moment, struggling with a
resentment too deep for words. “I can’t
help it if you think I’m just squealing. I
just want you to understand.”
His rankling sense of Cora’s unjustness,
her blatant devotion to self, the criminal
folly and blindness which allowed her to
misconstrue and pervert all his efforts on
her behalf, made him a little incoherent.
He left his chair presently, and began to
pace the floor, wrapt in a bitter recital.
“Good God, Lois, what more can I do?
She’s one of those women, don’t you see,
that think all they have to do, once they’re
married, is to sit down and take it easy.
She doesn’t seem to think that she owes
me anything at all, not even ordinary affec-
tion. She just flings our failure in my
face.”
“She’s very young, Jasper.”
“Young! She’s two years older than 1
am.”
“I mean young in mind. Cora was always
that. And it’s the mind that counts. She.
wanted warmth and color and change, I
expect, and the disappointment has warped
her patience.”
“Why,” Jasper exclaimed, “you’re not
defending her, are you?”
Lois colored faintly at the reproach in
his voice.
“I think she has been stupid, incredibly
stupid. But perhaps circumstances are as
much to blame as she is. She may change.”
Something impelled Jasper to say: “I
daresay I’m to blame myself in some ways,
though I can’t honestly see where. I’ve
tried to meet her in every possible way.
I’ve argued and implored, but nothing
seems to touch her. The queer part of it
is that I can’t really bring myself to —to
dislike her. I’ve tried to, in the hope that
it would make things easier. But I can’t
shake off a sort of pity.”
“Of course not,” said Lois briskly. Sud-
denly she smiled. “Jasper, it’s not half so
tragic as you think. I’m sure it can’t be.
You must just keep on. We’ve been talk-
ing much too seriously. Tell me about your
business. Ronald says that the bad luck
has turned at last, it’s true, isn’t it? I’m
so glad.”
“Things are a bit better,” Jasper admitted,
relieved to escape the hurtful circle of his
grievance. His face brightened at the new
thought. “Look here, if it’s only money
that Cora wants, she’ll be happy enough,
whatever I may be. I’m’ beginning to get
a grip on things, you see, Lois. I’ve been
trying to find out just how it’s done, this
money-making-. It goes on all around us.
No more brains than I’ve got—it’s a trick,
that’s all it is. And if they can turn it
so can I. You’ll see, before we’re much
older.”
Lois nodded. She continued to look at
him, her eyes gravely vigilant. But she
said nothing.
“Last week I was tipped off to some
rubber shares. I took a chance at it.”
Jasper paused boyishly for effect. “And it
came off. I made—quite a little. A hun-
dred or two.”
“Jasper, *l’m awfully glad. It will be
such a help to you in the business.”
H'e laughed excitedly. .
“In the business? Not a chance! I’m
saving up for something big—a 'real killing,’
as the Americans say. I haven’t told Cora,
and I don’t mean to. It’s to be my work-
ing capital. As I told you, I’m getting a
line on to the way it’s done. Money—
that’s the only real thing there is. The
trouble was to get a start. The rest ought
to be easy.”
“You mean you’ll speculate?”
“In a way, I suppose. But ‘invest’ is the
better word.”
Lois said slowly: “You always were am-
bitious to make a lot of money. I wonder
w T hy?”
“I’ve told you. Look at the time I had
as a boy. D’you think I’d go back to
that damned life at Guruwa? I want to
rule, not be ruled.”
She felt her powerlessness to stem that
dark, disastrous strain in his blood.
“Well, good luck. But be sure that you
really do rule.”
Jasper met the doubt in her dark eyes,
and was suddenly enlightened. He smiled
with a kindly disdain.
“You’re still thinking about that old tin-
foil stuff. As if it was wicked to want
money!”
That night Jasper took a tenderness back
to Cora. But her attitude was such that
the old indifference reasserted itself almost
without a struggle.
He said in reply to the question she flung
at him: “I’ve been to see Lois Beaument.
You know that perfectly well.”
(Continued on page 55.)


m
Ji
ik
1
■
y#tialh(irS'to 1 <s r P
&feiljE'fflz©r^ : / ->r STRO
S/P*
xx
mops
!TSU/„
rs
USB
Hi
nil
Sm
i wi
mm
(j
S 3
P;
S§
. .. /
S 3)
V.
ADS w^Z„? »r
Mitaih
r^<s>
No. 99 SET. Contains the essentials for a
perfect "Valet” shave—the razor,
strop and three blades in leather-
ette-covered case
ê
Managing Agents for Australia ' —
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
New Zealand Agents:
VAN STAVEREN BROS., Ltd., Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch.
“What does that mean—‘Strops
itself’?”
“There’s a stropping device # built into
the head of the razor —strop just slips
through the razor head!’’
“Yes —and then? ”
“Then all you do is run the Valet Auto-
Strop razor to and fro. Click, click —
and the blade is instantly sharpened
without taking it out of the frame.
“ Surely that sharpens only one side
of the edge?”
“No, no both sides are stropped
alternately.’’
“Should be pretty sharp when
you’ve finished.”
“Sharp! It’s the keenest razor edge
there is—and it lasts for months.”
“Stropping take long?”
“Ten seconds each morning, and you
get the same principle right through
the Valet range: 3/-, 8/6 or 21/-
All dealers sell them.”
“Good. I’ll get one to-day.”
ë
m
» w
kVkkV.
'"''■'-'"'■mw///?/.
mm.
mm
mmm *■
'mm.
m-
WHATEVER may be your holi«;
day mood ... fishing; gamej
hunting; alpine climbing
sight seeing ... you will be enthralled
'by a change amid New Zealand’s be-
i witching surroundings, a memorable
holiday at unexpectedly low cost.
Let us send you free literature and
details of fares. Use the coupon!
pU ase '
pet^'
,ls
o.b° ut
Ze<*
-1
t3o’ , ' e v ...-
eS "
NEW ZEALAND
GOV’T OFFICES
London Bank Chambers,
20 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
59 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
m
The Wonderful Spectacular Sprinkler
The Watering Device that out-distances all others. For the thorough
watering of Golf Courses, Fairways and Putting Greens, Large Lawns
and Bowling Greens, Orchards, Lucerne Fields, etc. The Spectacular
is easily King of all Sprinklers—it is the Brainiest Idea yet for thorough
watering, void of the many troubles belonging to other Sprinklers.
There’s no flooding in parts, nor puddling with the Spectacular, and
it carries on without excessive watching. The Travelling Spectacular
may be left working all through the night without the least fear of
trouble.
c
Spectacular Stationary Type
Price of Stationary Type, com-
plete with Stand and Hose Con-
nection,
£5/15/-
Price of Travelling Type complete
with Hose Connection,
£6/15/-
Descriptive Folder Post Free on
Request.
Spectacular Travelling Type.
aJ-' l '
imuimiiimniiiii'’
I NOS’?/
NHOf
mu
uinuiiiiiimmui;
gmfmi
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
324-330 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.


(/*
tit
&
»
'>*
«s
iM-
i
New Beauty—Greater Luxury
Striking improvements in the construction and
design of Dodge Brothers Improved Victory Six
reveal a larger body and an even more splendid
sweep of its unusually long, low, graceful lines.
Wider windows and wider seats add further
comfort to its luxurious interior, and give a
greater breadth of vision to its occupants.
Increased body length gives generous leg-room.
And the unique and exclusive principle of Victory
construction, resulting in a lowered center of
gravity, insures riding ease and rbadability as ex-
ceptional as Victory pick-up, power and flexibility.
Dodge Brothers complete line of passenger vehicles includes
the Standard Six , the Victory Six, and the Senior Six.
Canada Cycle 8C Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
Austral Motors Limited, Brisbane —Townsville
Waymouth Motor Co. Ltd., Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co. Ltd., Perth
Harden 8C Johnston Ltd., Sydney
northern Automobiles , Ltd., Auckland, ~N.Z.
Amuri Motors, Ltd. .. Christchurch, N.Z.
Oossens and Black, Ltd. .. Dunedin, U.Z.
P. H. Vickery, Ltd. Invercargill, N.Z,
Newton King, Ltd. .. New Plymouth , NJZ.
Magnus Motors, Ltd. ~ Wellington, N£.
Dddge- Brothers
VI CTDRY SIX
DODGE
l/’29.


The Ultimate Choice 11
THE
KROPP
It never requires grinding ,
MADE THROUGHOUT IN SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Time is proving that
after many experi-
ments the man who
will not be satisfied
with anything but the
best comes back to
the Kropp.
ALL - BRITISH
i
From the usual Dealers. BL f Ivory or Xylonite Handles.
Wholesale only OSBORNE, GARRET l & CO., LTD.. London, England.
GROCERS
JHE “EARL” BACON CUTTERS, "made
in Australia,” are always at your service—made
in five models, prices £8 to £3B, cash or terms.
Write for illustrated catalogue.
HUMPHREY EARL, LTD.,
Manufacturers,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
X
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess Insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
S 3
In Days of Old
White hair was
all the vogue.
In modern days
grey or white
hair is consid-
ered a sign of
appr o a c h i n g
age.
It is NOT “THE
THING.”
All traces of Grey can readily be removed
by an application of
Dr. Allen’s (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Sold at all Chemists and Stores.
Harmless, easy
to apply, can-
not be detected
Australian Agents:
DUERDIN AND
SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street,
Melbourne.
A
“Your Food has
been the turning
point to my baby”—
so says a Victorian mother.
Another mother says:—
“Baby weighed only 3§ lbs.
when a fortnight old. We tried
several foods then we dis-
covered ‘Benger’s.' Baby took
Benger’s without trouble. She
gained 12 ozs. the first week.
She is now 8 months old, and
weighs 16 lbs. a happy, plump,
and healthy little girl,”
ē
Food
Keg. TItA.DE MARK.
ĕ
iiM
m
m
mm
Beauty
and
Fidelity
THE rich, exclusive appearance of ELGIN
watches is but an indication of the internal
beauty of workmanship. The world’s finest
craftsmen are engaged upon the production of
these masters of time. ELGIN watches fulfil
their allotted task with a fidelity and exactness
that leave nothing to be desired.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
&lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
jli? Jrade Mark
ė
in the Watch Cape
102
Pen and Picture
Shadow Shows
As Oscar
Wilde remarked,
dramatic art,
more than any
other, is objec-
tive ; and when
it is stated that
“Zero'’ (First
National) is
subjective, the picture—which aspires to
tlie dramatic —is fairly indicated. Another
nice angle on it can be had from an
ingenuous statement of the lady who made
it from a novel of the same name. “When
I was writing the scenario for ‘Zero,’ ” she
states, “I found that it was necessary to
bring the character of Julia into the story
earlier, as the part is played in the film
by Miss Fay Compton, and, as is natural,
the cinema-going public wish to see as much
of her as possible.’’ What a confession,
implying as it does that movies must still
be made to suit the feeble-minded oafs who
get some sort of thrill out of watching the
shadow of a favorite cavorting about, irre-
spective of the story! With that for build-
ing basis, “Zero” is exactly what a normal
intelligence might expect it to be. If you
can be thrilled by watching Stewart Rome
or Fay Compton posing through six or seven
reels, you’ll enjoy it. If, on the other hand,
you insist that a screen story should have
movement other than the opening and shut-
ting of innumerable doors, it is probable that
you will be rather bored. The beauty
of it is that the story is good. First and
last, however, it is a character study, so
subjective that it might almost be called
sedentary. The makers try .to reach a plane
above the average, and that attempt deserves
admiration. The achievement does not.
“Michigan Kid” (Universal) is a typical
Rex Beach story. Alaska, a gambling drink-
ery, a mine-manager gambler, the Kid (owner
of the drinkery), the girl these two loved as !
youngsters in Michigan. The Kid leaves
home as a
boy to make a
fortune and
then go back
for the girl.
He has made
it, and is
about to go
back when the
mine manager,
after losing
heavily, trades
in a watch
which con-
tains her
photo. T h e
K id learns
who he is,
that he has
lost the mine-
workers’ cash,
and that the
girl is due to
arrive next
day. He packs
the manager
back to the
RENE ADOREE,
of “Michigan Kid.”
mines, with . _ . ,
the promise that he will deliver both gin
and money. The girl arrives; she and the
Kid get as far as a half-way log hut in
the pine wastes and are held there by a wind-
storm, which, moviely enough, does not pre-
vent the manager, grown suspicious, from
turning up. At night, a great bush-fire; the
manager stuns the Kid with a lump of wood,
locks him in a room, and tells the girl he
went back. The girl finds him ; a wild fight;
the Kid wins; then a wild escape down
rapids in a canoe with pine forest blazing
to the water’s edge and burning trees fall-
ing into the stream. It is all dreadfully im-
probable, and the strain tliat_ is put upon
coincidence would snap the wishbone of an
emu. But there is good acting by Conrad
Nagel and moderate acting by Kene Adoree,
and the story is brisk, picturesque and spec-
tacular.
If “The Siren” (Columbia Pictures) is
intended as an indictment of Uncle Sam s
judicial methods it fails because the story
is too wildly improbable. The daughter of a
millionaire catches a crook cheating at cards
in her father’s house. A struggle ensues be-
tween the crook and the lady’s lover, during
which the mansion catches fire. She shoots
the crook to save the hero, and though nobody
is found she is charged with the murder. The
trial takes the usual course of American
stage law, with the Judge deaf and blind to
a barrister behaving like a blackguard. One
learns, with what should be a shock, that
the lady is to be hanged. One’s feelings
should further be harrowed by the subsequent
realistic preparations for the execution.
Actually, one doesn’t care twopence because
the man who is supposed to have been mur-
dered is standing looking at the proceedings,
and it is only a matter of another 100 feet
41 inches before the hero will unmask him.
Good drama can be founded on almost any
absurdity—all Sliakspeare’s plots are ridi-
culous leg-pullings, but. there one forgets
the pain of the operation in the artistic
sincerity of the performance. Neither
Dorothy Itevier, the heroine, Tom Moore,
the hero, nor the villain, whose name has
slipped the memory, carry conviction.
The Shadow Showman is in the parlous
position of having to say something about
“Heart Trouble” (First National) without
being able to remember a thing about the
film. It is one of those pictures in which
farce treads on the heels of unmitigated
farce. On second thoughts, however, one
feature does obtrude. It is the moonlike
visage of Harry Langdon, a pantomimist
who may yet step into the misshapen foot-
gear of Chaplin, king of celluloid buffoons.
What Langdon needs is the restraint which
makes Chaplin an artist.
The Palette
“Spare Herring”: Martin Stainforth,
painter of Australian racehorses, has been
holding a show in London. The Field gave
him a column notice, and the aristocracy,
V
new and old, flocked to see the heroes of
the Australian turf, from Carbine to Man-
fred, not a few bringing their cheque-books.
Stainfortli does this sort of thing very well,
but, like all painters of racehorses, he con-
ventionalises his subjects. Even in such
portraits as Linacre —one of Stainfortli s
best —one sees the tendency to exaggeration
of shoulder, ribbing and loin, together with
the delicate spindling of cannon bone and
pastern that one finds in pictures of Stock-
well, Voltigeur and a hundred other four-
legged celebrities flattered by their portrait-
ists before the Melbourne Cup was thought
of.
“Ga. II.”: Another Romney has arrived
in Australia to the order of a Western dis-
trict (Vic.) squatter, Lionel J. Weatherley,
of Mortlake, whose father held original
Broken Hill Prop, shares; it cost him 3200
guineas at Christie’s. It is a portrait of
Richard Griffith. In my judgment the
gentleman’s legs are too long and his coat
is badly cut; but the face is in as good order
as when Romney charged 40 guineas for
painting it in 1786. The thing has been
lent to the National Gallery, Melbourne. It
has historical interest, because Griffith’s son,
Charles James, was a non-official member
of the first Vic. Leg. Council and the first
member for Dundas in the Leg. Assembly,
llis daughter married the Rev. Francis
Chomley in England, and came to Victoria
with her six sous, one of whom, A.W., be-
came a County Court Judge* and another, |
11. M., Chief Commissioner of Police.
The Inky Way
Bob Ross’s services to Australian letters
have been recognised in a fashion; The
Bulletin’s old contributor is now a trustee
of Melbourne Public Library, Art Gallery and
Museum. For part of the late session Ross
had a seat in Victoria’s Parliamentary press
gallery as representative of the Labor Call
and the Worker.
“Lao-dah”: A Melbourne newspaper was
called upon to make an unusual retraction
recently—an apology for maligning a bridge
a photograph of which had been published
together with an assertion that the
approaches were unsafe. The real culprit
was a bridge a mile away in the territory
of a different urban council.
“P.X.”: If the Advertiser (Adelaide) is
worth a million or more, nineteen-twentieths
of it has been added in Langdon Bonython’s
day: it was worth no more than about
£40,000 when he took it in hand. Previously
a syndicate (mostly drapers), J. H. Barrow,
Thomas King and. Burden, in various per-
mutations, had tried their hands at it.
Thomas King might have succeeded if he
hadn’t attempted to mix newspaper building
with politics—he was Minister of Education
for a time.
“Rounds”: The secrecy that was main-
tained for several hours regarding the pas-
sing of Archbishop Lees made things very
difficult for the Melbourne dailies. Death
came to the Archbishop at lunch-time, but
there was no reference to the event in the
evening paper; in fact, no official statement
was available for nearly eight hours. Mrs.
Lees, in the shock of her sudden bereave-
ment, desired that the news should not
be published until her aged parents had been
advised by cable.
“Rob-Roy” : Re the drawing “Dead Loss,”
by the late Alf Vincent (B. 2/l/’29) . Some-
thing about it struck me as familiar, and
searching through a bundle of early war-
time Bulletins which “Mrs. R.-R.” has
allowed me to keep, I found it (B. 31/12/T4).
The drawing is of the same two gentlemen,
somewhat more prosperous-looking this time,
only here it is Cohen who makes the in-
quiry and Moses who wishes he had “Some
insurance on dis cigar.” Also the back-
ground is different. Vincent, believing his
drawing destroyed in the Bulletin fire,
re-drew it. with slight variations, five years
later.
“942”: Of recent years the big men of
the Melbourne Argus have achieved their
positions in a remarkably short time. C.
P. Smith, who started as lino-operator, was
chief of the reporting staff at 37, after two
years’ war service, and assistant-general-
manager at 41. He is now managing-editor
of the West Australian. E. C. Doyle, in
pre-war days a news gatherer for the Coun-
try Press agency, fell in for Smith’s job as
chief on his return from Europe. Herb.
Davies, chief sub., was a motor-cycling con-
tributor before the war. E. G. Bonney, now
of Melbourne Sun, was jumped to the posi-
tion of Argus leader-writer from the re-
porting staff. And it doesn’t seem long
since general-manager Holtz was just a
clerk, with no thoughts of Rotary Clubs.
Now comes R. L. Curthoys as editor at 36.
“Quoin”: Northern Territory newspaper
proprietors will have to be doubly careful
about their p’s and q’s from now on. A
new Ordinance requires the registration of
every printing plant, wfith particulars of
ownership, and the putting-up of guarantees
against damages for libel. The .clause relat-
ing to guarantees deserves to be more widely
known:—
Prior to the publication of any newspaper, or
within one month after the commencement of this
Ordinance, the printer and publisher thereof respec-
tively, together with two sufficient sureties, shall
enter, before and to the satisfaction of the Govern-
ment Resident, into a recognizance himself in a
sum of five hundred pounds and his sureties in a
like sum in the whole, conditioned that the printer
or publisher shall pay not only every fine or penalty
that may at any time after the date of the recog-
nizance be inflicted upon him by reason of any
conviction for printing or publishing anv blas-
phemous or seditious libel, but also such damages
and costs as may at any time thereafter be recovered
against him in any action for the printing or
publishing of any other libel in the and
the Government Resident shall forthwith transmit
it to the Registrar.
How much the “printer and publisher thereof
respectively,” who subsequently become
“himself,” have to guarantee, and how many
sureties they need between them, and for
what total amount, are securely wrapped in
mystery,. as is also the reason for requiring
the Resident to transmit the libel to the
Registrar.


De Soto Six
PRODUCT of CHRYSLER
ifullum pro paruo
Nothing is so unmistakably the ultimate
among cars of its class. It is so obviously a
car of character and breeding—generously
endowed with every attribute that spells
greater value—a car that could come
only from a maker with the broad
experience and great resources of
Chrysler. If your interest is focused on
the field of low-priced sixes, be sure
to see and ride in the new De Soto Six.
Australian and New Zealand De Soto Distributors:
New South Wales:
GRENVILLE MOTORS LTD.,
Carsell House, 205-213 William St.
Sydney.
Victoria:
AUTOMOBILES PROPRIETARY LTD..
92 Flinders St., Melbourne.
Queensland:
STRADBROKE MOTORS LTD.,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
South Australia:
DOMINION MOTORS LTD.,
Flinders St., Adelaide.
Western Australia:
WENTWORTH MOTORS LTD.,
Milligan St., Perth.
New Zealand:
NEW ZEALAND MOTORS LTD.
Wellington.
DE SOTO MOTOR CORPORATION (Division of Chrysler Corporation), DETROIT, MICHIGAN


ACCURATE SHOOTING AT 500 YARDS.
sBUy^
NEW IMPROVED CADET RIFLE.
Hundreds of satisfied Shooters have used
297/230 CALIBRE CADET RIFLES.
This is an ideal sporting rifle. Fires a central fire cartridge larger than a .22
calibre, and is accurate up to 500 yards. 24in. barrel. Under-lever Martini
action, quick and certain in extraction of empty shells. Detachable lock. Elevating
ladder rear sight and protected bead front sight. Fitted complete with cleaning
rod and brush 75/-
CARTRIDGES.—Long (actual size illustrated) 7/6 per 100
Short 5/6 „ „
Va
LTD
PTY
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTET AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
MELLOWED BY AGE ALONE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney. fg
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Reckoned a bit unlucky in the Carrington
Stakes, wherein she started from an outside
position, Whitta went one better on Satur-
day in the A.J.C. Challenge Stakes, for which
she was equal favorite, at fours, with Violian
and Margarethal, In front before they had
galloped a furlong, H. A. Taylor’s bonny
little bay mare had the race won at the
two-furlongs post, so far was she ahead. Beck-
with (25. to 1) emerged from the ruck with
a fine run, but did not get near enough to
cause McCarten any uneasiness; Black
Douglas (15 to 1) also finished well in
third place after having a rough passage;
but Violian and Margarethal ran badly.
Whitta ran the six furlongs in lmin. llsec.
—the best time yet registered for the race,
though slower than her own record for
Randwick.
Loquacious (5 to 1) also put up a sterling
performance in the Three-year-old Handicap.
Unlike Whitta, she did not get away well,
and she was so far back at the half-mile
that her backers would, have sold out cheap.
But Munro brought her along with a won-
derful run on the outside, and she shot-past
Signify (25 to 1) and Jeypore (5 to 1)
to win comfortably in lmin. 25!see, for
the seven furlongs. She is a worthy sister
to Windbag, this filly.
The First Nursery Handicap brought out
two smart youngsters in Rebate (8 to 1) and
Retrospect (2 to 1). Handier at the start
and making the home turn, Rebate beat the
other fellow, and ran the five furlongs in
lmin.; but Retrospect may turn out the
better colt over a distance. Rebate is by
Redfern—Emita, and is a half-brother to
Valiant, second in Valicare’s Doncaster;
Retrospect is by Rossendale —Tregony.
The handicapper was rather hard on the
good-class horses nominated for the Holiday
Handicap (Fondant, for example, was given
9st. 101 b. and Don Moon 9st. 91b.), and
lightweights had the finish to themselves.
Lucy Thrice (10 to 1), w 7 ho carried 7st. 21b.,
including 51b. overweight, just beat Lovebox
(8 to 1), after an exciting finish; Miss Aus-
tralia (7 to 1) was a fair third. Leadight,
the favorite, did not run generously for
Toohey, but should not be discarded for the
Anniversary Handicap on that account. The
weight anchored Fondant and Don Moon,
but Octember was going well when it was
too late.
Backed from sixes to threes, Nut Cup won
the Welter Handicap in the style off a good
horse. He misbehaved at the barrier, but
Cracknell got him away pretty well, and the
run which took him to the head of the field
was very impressive. Patadawn (7 to 1)
was a fast-finishing second; Bacagi (12 to 1)
was third.
* * * *
For the second day on Saturday:—
Flying Handicap: Greensil; next, Lesboo
or Margarethal.
Adrian Knox Stakes: Loquacious; next,
Black Dina.
Novice Handicap : Illuminate or Lord Ken-
naquhair; next, Faultless.
Anniversary Handicap: Fondant 1, Lea-
dight 2, Vallino or Illuminate 3.
Second Nursery Handicap: Retrospect.
Higkweight Handicap: Black Douglas;
next. Quince or Lesboo.
* * * *
Until Saturday arrived Fred Mitchell
had had no luck with his Maoriland-
bred gelding King Mart. The big
punter’s animal ran off the course in
the Ilopetoun Handicap when he looked
to have the race won, and was a close second
to Madom in the Bagot Handicap, wherein
the slow pace did not suit him. But, backed to
2 to 1 for the Anniversary Handicap at
Caulfield on Saturday, the noble steed made
amends. He dwelt a little when the barrier
lifted, and he was last leaving the
straight. Riding a confident race, however,
little Hoysted made up his ground very
quickly, and with five furlongs to go his
mount was in the lead. There ho was joined
by Finsbury (6 to 1), who galloped much
AT THE MOTOR SHOW.
SHE: “What do you think my baby did yesterday?”
HE: “I—er don’t know.”
SHE: “Fifty miles an hour.”
more generously than usual, but after a great
race all the way up the straight King Mart
won by a neck. Sacedon (8 to 1) was a
poor third. The distance was 11 furlongs;
the time, 2min. 20-|sec.
“S. A. Rawdon’s” bay filly Toussaint had
been, beaten into second place at Epsom the
previous Saturday, but the stylish youngster
made no mistake in the Holiday Stakes, going
right away from the opposition in the
straight. Lady Deneb (6 to 1) and Hasta
(25 to 1) were placed. Toussaint is by
“Rawdon’s” successful stallion Drake out
of Sanctity; she started at the nice price
of 8 to 1. A sprinter of decided class came
to light in the Tooronga Handicap—the bay
filly Fission (6 to 1). Despite some inter-
ference, she beat a good field pointless, Lucie
Manette (10 to 1) and Bonny (.12 to 1)
filling the places. The winner has an un-
certain pedigree, being by Valais or Chry-
solaus out of Hyppolyte, but the doubt as
to the sire is immaterial. .What is im-
portant is that she ran six furlongs in lmin.
12-fsec. and won pulling up.
* jj: * =3=
The ruffians who infest the Turf can’t ewen
keep their dirty hands off picnic racing,
hitherto the pleasantest and cleanest form
of the sport. This year’s Bong Bong
Cup was reckoned a moral for Bronze
Fuze, who had captured the Tirranna
Cup and beaten horses far above picnic
standard at Warwick Farm. At first a hot
favorite, he drifted in the betting, and was
easily beaten by Anvil, a nag not in his
class, whose price hardened just, before the
start. Bronze Fuze pulled up in a bad tvay,
and a vet. summoned by the owner reported
that the animal was suffering from the effects
of a drug of the atropine type, which would
cause temporary blindness and paralysis in
the abdominal muscles. So far the perpe-
trator has not been discovered.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: Melbourne books have long
lamented over the fact that motor racing on
Aspendale course, about 15 miles from the
metropolis, attracts from 10,000 to 15,000
spectators, despite Ikey’s absence. Now it
has been discovered that the anti-betting
law only applies to boroughs or shires if the
promoters by advertisement prohibit bet-
ting. The promoters in this case are the
Aspendale Speedways Pty. They have a five
years’ lease, and nothing in it apparently
to stop them, so the books are whooping.
But there is a fly in the amber. V.R.C. offi-
cials have hinted that if McShortodds takes
advantage of the legal flaw to introduce
gambling on petrol contests, he may find his
license for horse operations refused renewal.
And, in any case, legislation to plug the leak
in the Act is pretty certain to arrive this
session.
“Don Crew”: Primed with racecourse
whisky, Big Dan was holding forth at the
Leger bar when a natty little chap approached
and ordered a shandy. “Where’d you come
from?” queried Dan, eyeing him with criti-
cal disfavor; “this ain’t no place for
dudes.” “Sorry,” said the little man; “I
was only ordering a shandy.” “A swell like
you ought to be soakin’ his booze in the
paddick,” growled Dan, “and not come
buttin’ in when people’s speakin’.” “I’m
sorry if I interrupted,” said the little
chap politely. “Sorry!” snorted Dan. “A
man ought to dong you one.” He let go a
punch that would have strained the rivets
of a boiler, but he was a trifle too late. The
little chap’s fist shot out, and Dan’s head
hit the floor. “Doing anything to-morrow?”
asked the little man when Dan had been
assisted to his feet. “Not that I know- of,”
returned Dan dazedly. “Why?” “Oh. no-
thing.” said the little chap, “only I thought
that if you’d be disengaged to-morrow w-e’d
go into Centennial Park and I’d play you
mumble-peg!”
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Sydney Stadium’s American importation,
.Tack Sparr, opened his boxing account in
Australia by outpointing Tommy Fairhall on
Saturday night. Sparr had a pull in the
weights (he scaled lOst. to Fairhall’s
9st. 12J1b.), and took advantage, of it when
in the clinches. After 15 unexciting rounds
the referee awarded the honors to Sparr. He
had earned them, although a section of the
crowd thought otherwise.
* * * *
Had Carlos Galbusera (lOst. 71b.) given
an exhibition of skipping instead of sparring
at Melbourne Stadium on Wednesday night,
there would have been more spectators at
his Saturday-night contest with Jack Car-
roll (lOst. Bilb.). Carroll hit him with every
punch known to the fancy, and the Italian
probably absorbed more punishment in six
rounds than Billy Grime has suffered during
his whole career. He took his dreadful hiding
gamely, grinning most of the time, but dur-
ing one particularly torrid bombardment he
suddenly held his arm aloft, signifying that
he’d had enough.
The Ins and Outs
“Bumpk”: Is this a result of the gush
press’s blather over the Tests? A boy of
13, charged with the murder by shooting of
his brother, aged 10, at Moorabbin (Vic.),
is stated to have replied to the detective’s
inquiry, “Why did you kill Jackie?” with
“He was always ski ting he could play cricket
better than I.”
* * * *
“H.M.”: An assertion in the S. M. lleralu
that Oldfield, when with the A.I.F. team,
showed as constant a tendency to appeal ns
Duckworth, drew a warm denial from one
who signed himself “E.J.L.” —the E. ,1. Long
of the Digger cricketers. Now that Gregory
is gone and Taylor is fading out, Oldfield and
Pellew are the only members of the victori-
ous A.I.F. side who remain in big cricket,
unless Kelleway can be counted. The others
were K. Docker, W. L. Trennery, E. Bull,
J T. Murray, H. A. Collins, W. 8. Sterling,
C. S. Winning, E. J. Long, Lampard and
Willis.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Your Test cricketer is be-
coming as sensitive as a second-rate prima
donna, and as prone to scent insult in every
happening. The latest manifestation is the
muffled fury of some of the Australian players
in the Melbourne match because they were
presented with only one free ticket each, and
that for a mere male acquaintance. One
would have thought that a thirty-quid bonus
and a solid daily allowance would have satis-
fied them, but evidently there still remained
the irresistible urge to be a deadhead. At
last advices the Board of Control was to
be approached, the players being of the
opinion that the Melbourne C. G.’s tight-
fistedness exceeded even the Sydney C. G.
atrocity, when a prominent player was pre-
vented from taking his little boy into the
members’ pavilion.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: Those misguided enthusi-
asts who recently celebrated some cricket
anniversary on Broad Halfpenny Down, in
Hampshire, said to be the birthplace of
cricket, must have had a blue-nosed time.
In addition to snow a roaring nor’-east gale
raged, and thoroughly justified the fore-
thought which provided for quantities of pot
punch on the ground. The Hambledon club,
which played on the Down, was rather dif-
ferent from its descendants of to-day. The
local nobility and gentry who composed it
rarely played themselves, but put up stakes
for which teams composed of their tenants
and retainers battled, while members betted
vigorously on the play. A man who was a
good batsman or bowler had little difficulty
in finding a comfortable job in some capacity
on one or other of the neighboring estates.
Something of that sort is still seen, but the
old-time stakes of 1000 guineas a side and
so on have gone, while betting has dwindled
to an infinitesimal fraction of its former
self.
(Continued on page 41.)
“Backwoodsman” : The Australian bowlers
who had the temerity to invade Maoriland
with a scratch team from N.S.W. and Vic-
toria got what they were looking for in the
shape of a horrible hiding, the Maorilanders
winning all three games of the champion-
ship rubber. In Melbourne last year the
boot was on the other foot, the All-Blacks
flopping in all three matches by 119 points.
This time they were 88 points to the good.
The tourists were handicapped in several
ways, the M.L. system of playing, with its
allowance of two lives to each competitor in
an event, making a very long job of the tour-
ney compared with the Aussie system of
sudden death. Possibly the ban recently
placed by the M.L. authorities on swearing
had its effect also.
* * * *
Arne Borg put up a remarkable perform-
ance in Sydney Domain Baths last week
by winning the N.S.W. free style half-mile
championship in lOmin. 27sec., beating
Charlton’s best figures of lOmin. 32sec. Noel
Ryan of Manly, who finished second, but
takes’the State title, covered the distance
in llmin. 2sec., remarkable time for a school-
boy.
NOT THE PICNIC SPIRIT.
[FOR THE BULLETN.]
“This is the first time on record that a horse has
been doped at a picnic meeting.” —Sydney Evening
News.
’E would ’ave won 'ard ’eld, they all allow,
Made ’acks of all the other eight or nine,
Only some blighter gev the poor ole cow
A shot of wot the quacks call atropine.
’Is drifting in the market was a sign
Things ’ad been readied up for ’is defeating.
Common enough, you say? All mighty line.
It ain’t fair dinkum at a picnic meeting.
Yes, sports ’ave gotter live, I know, some’ow,
And wet their w’istles now an’ then with
wine;
To make a song or raise a ruddy row
In ordinary circs. I should decline
When crooks cash in upon some cute
design
Suckers for taking down and mugs for
beating.
Still, there are times for ramps in ev’ry
line—
They shouldn’t work ’em at a picnic meeting.
They cooked ’is goose. Scarce ’ad ’e made ’is
bow
Before the starter (Thanks, a beer for
mine!)
The turf to ’im seemed turned to ’eavy
plough,
’Is ’oofs looked like as they might inter-
twine.
Lord! but the poor ole cuddy cut a shine,
An ’undred voices for the stipes was bleating:
’Is trouble anybody could define—
Even although ’twas just a picnic meeting.
Ptads must be doped, o’ course, that tugs
may dine,
An’ ’istory’s incessantly repeating
Itself in this respeck. Still only swine
Would stiffen fav’rites at a picnic meeting.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


1
o;
m
9
WA
<v
1
»
!*■«
y*
vvv
4*
{s§§
kv
y
.11/
m
V\"
w
THE m
OLDEST HORSE
ft?
If IN THE WORLD! M
ESTABLISHED <742
Matured from early days in wood
and blended with subtlety and
genius.
Real Old Scotch whisky with a rare
distinctive flavour. In growing
demand throughout the world.
A man’s drink —anytime, anywhere.
121
«:5
5:;5
t
SE
Whisky
S*.*s
SCREW-CAP BOTTLES
NO CORKSCREW REQUIRED!


SsßMn
888
■a Q
iMor
■ 1 IB El |H
! n
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O. Proprietor:
One Minute Railway Station. T. M. AHERN.
One Minute Wharves.
è
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Rifle that will help you
enjoy your holidays
_____
Winchester Model 53.
In 25/20, 32/20 and 44 Calibre.
Price, £7/12/6. Post free to all parts of Australia.
The Gun House,
COWLES & DUNN
Write for Catalogue “B.” 453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Ins and Outs
N.S.W. tightened its grip on the Sheffield
Shield by bearing South Australia in Adel-
aide by GO runs. Jackson followed up his
three-figure knock in the first N.S.W. innings
with 90 in the second, while the country
colt, C. Andrews, batted in attractive style
for 87. Fast-bowler Wall took four for 78,
getting rid of Bradman, T. Andrews and
Kippax in short order. The South Australians
fought hard, but in spite of a fine stand by
Grimmett (71 n.e.) and scores of 79 and 74
from W. C. Alexander and D. G. McKay,
could not stay the course. The outright
win now gives N.S.W. top place on the
table, with 16 points, Victoria lying second
with 12 and South Australia and Queens-
land also running.
* * 4> *
The Englishmen had little trouble in win-
ning their two Tasmanian matches. The
first at Launceston saw England close with
8 down for 482 (Jardine 214). Tasmania’s
second try realised only 137, Tate taking 5
for 35, and England won by an innings and
116. At Hobart, the home side was sent
in on a rain-damaged wicket, and collapsed
for 66, Geary taking 3 for 6 and White 3
for 12. England could do no better than
223, Ames making LOO n.o. Hooper, with
3 for 54, was Tassy’s most successful
trundler. Tate (3 for 37) and Larwood (2
for 1) routed the local men in their second
innings, England winning by an innings and
64 runs.
* * * *
“S.M.”: A curious sporting episode hap-
pened in a cricket match, the English XI
v. Bendigo, when the Bendigo umpire took
a hand in the game and caught one of the
last English batsmen out. His lame ex-
planation was that he thought the game was
being played in a picnic spirit. Considering
how often a picnic includes a free fight
with bottles, a lost infant (who sometimes
remains lost), the disappearance of portable
property, and a girl falling 500 ft. over a
cliff, the excuse couldn’t have been worse.
* * >|! *
“Old Q” : It lias been stated in the Sydney
press that Austin Punch is to go to Queens-
land, where he is expected to play cricket for
the State. With all respect to Punch, this, if
correct, indicates a return to a bad old
precedent which set Queensland cricket back
for 25 years. In the early ’nineties a mis-
guided cricket enthusiast with a large busi-
ness proceeded to import slightly-worn crick-
eters of note from the southern States,
finding them billets to play with his
private club—there were no districts then.
For some years these men monopolised the
inter-State teams so entirely that dozens
of the young locals of promise chucked up
the game in disgust and drifted to other
sports like lacrosse, which then had a great
vogue in the northern State. Of late years
the tendency has been to rely on local talent
for the most part, and the advance in the
quality of the State’s cricket has in conse-
quence been marked.
sfc * Ns *
“H.H.”: Roy Kippax, brother of Alan
Kippax, used to play with the N.S.W. blind
cricketers, who recently tried conclusions
with a team representing the blind of Vic-
toria ; but, in the last engagement, Kippax
was in the joyful position of being able to
look on—after 16 years of blindness. A
remarkable operation started its good results
two years ago, but only quite recently has
the full strength of the sight been restored.
Now Kippax has married, his bride being
the nurse whose face he saw first when he
came out of the blackness.
* * * *
“R.J.R.”: Sir David Serjeant, just dead
in London, played in the two first inter-
colonial matches between N.S.W. and Vic.
Opening batsmen for Vic. in the first match,
March, 1856, he made seven; then N.S.W.’s
first demon, J. McKone, skittled his wicket.
He was the last survivor of the two elevens.
* * * *
“Seam”: Searchers for young bowling
talent might do worse than cock an eye at
the performance of 16-year-old Waller Mercer
for Waverley (N.S.W.) Colts against Drum-
moyne Juniors last week. He bowled 12
overs for 3 wickets and no runs in Drum-
moyne’s first innings, and 10 overs in the
second, when he took 3 for 3 —6 wickets
for 3 runs off 22 overs. A previous per-
formance was 7 for 11 in a score of 113.
He bowls a fastish ball for his age, and
flights them well.
* * * *
“Aigburth” : How these cricket soothsayers
of the daily press delight to drape their
lucubrations in mystery! An instance was
the rushed account by one of them in the
Sydney press of how the almost supernatural
cunning of Hobbs saved England in the
Melbourne Test, unperceived by all save the
writer of the article. According to him,
Hobbs signalled for a new bat, and this
was brought out by Jardine. Hobbs, after
handling it, retained his first bat, “con-
versing apart,” as the old stage directions
had it, with the Oxonian. Then the latter
departed, to come in when the next wicket
fell, out of the usual order. It is as clear
as a summer lightning flash, according to
the discoverer of the plot, that Hobbs wished
to inform Chapman that the wicket was
tricky, and that the safe Jardine had better
be the next batsman in. He could have
done that quite as well by going over to
the pavilion between the overs and speaking
to the skipper himself. In the days of W.
G. Grace, Harry Trott and other notable
captains, the skipper was supposed to be
able to see for himself from the pavilion
whether the pitch was playing up. To make
sure he could ask the man who had just come
out and alter his batting order as required.
* * * *
The Australian selectors once more in-
curred the curses of the community when
they published their team for the fourth
Test at Adelaide. With the rubber lost,
they had a rare chance to bring some of
the young entry forward, especially among
the bowlers, but they ignored the opportunity
and stood pat on the side which lost the
third Test in Melbourne, with A. Jackson
of N.S.W. substituted for Victor Richardson.
All will endorse the youngster’s selection,
but that it was made at Richardson’s expense
is one of those blunders which are worse
than crimes. Apart from his magnificent
fielding, Richardson would have been playing
on his home' ground, and by the so-called
law of averages was due for a big score,
especially if he had been given a chance in
his proper position on the card —No. 5 or
6. Fast-bowler Wall, who did so well
against N.S.W., should have been given a
go on his own midden, and Oldfield, who
has shown very indifferent form, for him,
could have been put down temporarily to
let O’Connor, of Queensland, shape in top-
notch company.
Racquet and Bawl
The annual N.S.W. tourney for the coun-
try championships came to an end at Rush
cutter Bay on Saturday. Kalms practically
swept the board. He won the singles from
DIRTY WORK.
FRESH LAD (to the Major, who has just taken his fourth divot): "' Lo, Digger.”
Guy Williams, of Barraba (who, to do him
justice, was suffering from a sprained ankle),
and the victory makes him permanent pos-
sessor of the Dunlop Cup. With .T. CVRyan,
Kalms captured the doubles from Williams
and R. Spencer, and also took the mixed
doubles in company with Miss O’Donnell. The
women’s singles went to Miss Wilson, while
Mrs. Semmler and Miss O’Donnell took the
women’s doubles for the third year in suc-
cession, thus lifting the challenge cups pre-
sented ten years ago by L. C. Terry.
In the teams’ competition Barraba, vic-
torious last year, was left in the final with
Tamworth. Outstanding volleying by Pryor
and Swain, well supported by Halliday and
A. Emblen, saw Tamworth down the pre-
miers by 5 sets 39 games,- to 3 sets 36 games.
* * * *
“St. Cloud” : France has developed another
tennis champion in Robert Ramillion, a 19-
year-old lad, who recently won the world s
professional championship. The event took
place at the Queen’s Club, London, and though
both Ivozeluh and Vincent Richards were
missing from the list of contestants, general
opinion among those who had seen the Czech
and the Yankee in action this season was
that they would have had little chance with
the brilliant young Frenchman.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: The French Lawn Tennis
Federation has resolved that amateurs who
have turned professional may be re-admitted
to the lilywhite ranks on application, pro-
vided they give an undertaking not to repeat
the offence for which they were disqualified.
This will leave the door open for the once-
mighty Suzanne, if that haughty and
temperamental person condescends to avail
herself of it. Paul Feret, who was thrown
into outer darkness at the same time as
the Lenglen, is said to have applied for
re-instatement.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: The trend to profes-
sionalism, which is such a feature of amateur
games in Australia —and elsewhere for
that matter —was hinted at in a letter dis-
cussed at a recent meeting of the Victorian
tennis authorities. It was from a N.S.W.
player and touched on the matter of expenses.
There is only one rule on the subject. Apart
from travelling and housing expenses an
amateur player may not be paid more than
ss. per day in cash. Further, he must himself
supply the clothing and implements necessary
for the game lie may be engaged in, save, of
course, such accessories as tennis or cricket
balls. It is notorious that a very different
condition of things prevails in first-class tennis.
* * * *
“Avril”: Who says tennis isn’t dangerous?
A Maorilander who owned a pet ostrich has
lost his bird through it. The ostrich was put
into an orchard and told to help himself to
fallen fruit. Mistaking a stray tennis ball for
a new breed of peach, he swallowed his find
and paid the extreme penalty.
* * * *
“D.J.H.”: Recommended to tennis players
is the old-new game of “kum-bak.” The ball
is suspended on goal-like posts, and is hit
with rackets from opposite sides. Novices
can get a decent smack in the face, as it
beats a bruiser for swift returns. The
salesman who demonstrated to me broke the
electric-light shade and globe in proving its
simpleness. However, it’s a good game, pro-
vides plenty of exercise, and can fit into
an average back yard without cramping.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Nitric”: The oiling of golf sand “greens”
to prevent them being blown away is no new
experiment (B. 24/10/’2B). Most country
clubs in Queensland and New South Wales
sport this type of green, and the putting
surface is excellent—in dry weather. But
after a good rainfall the green becomes a
sticky, oily mass. I could name half a dozen
country clubs which would change the oiling
system if something better offered.
* * * *
“Minus Fifty”: Some of these golf-club
committees are bunker mad. Take the case
of the extraordinary persons who mismanage
my club. The links lie in the mountains near
Adelaide. A willow-fringed creek twists like
a snake with a bellyache through the course,
and. ball cemeteries in the form of huge
plasters of blackberry vines lie right along-
side some greens. To reach others it is
necessary to skyrocket the ball clean over
a forest of towering stringybarks. The creek
crosses nearly every fairway on the _pl a ce.
Yesterday, after I had done 9 holes in So,
the secretary told me that the committee
was going to bunker the course. It would
be gilding the bookmaker an/1 painting the
nose of “Colonel Damurizc” to do‘anything
of the sort. There are golf courses where
nature cannot be improved on in the matter
of bunkering—ours leads the lot.
* :{c * *
“Old Q.”: Indooroopilly (Q.) has acquired
a new pro.—T. H. Southcombe, who has
been in charge of Cairns for some time. He
is a West of England man, and has served a
long apprenticeship at the game. He has a
great reputation as a coach, both for be-
ginners and “mugs,” between whom, as every
golfer knows, there is a distinction with a
lot of difference. He will find plenty to
occupy him at Indooroopilly, which is one
of Brisbane’s new clubs.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: Cricket enthusiasm has served
to obscure the fact that Dr. R. 11. Betting-
ton, whom many would like to see given a
place in a Test match, isi a golfer of the
first water; he is the holder of a golf blue
at Oxford, as well as one each for cricket
and Rugger. The big fellow is accounted
one of the longest drivers in Britain, and
that is saying something, with Cyril Tolley
and Abe Mitchell in the offing. Ho is
credited with having hit a ball 290 yards on-
level ground in England, with no following
wind to help him.
5}C ;J; S’S $
“Claypan”: It is an unusual experience
to play an iron shot and find that the ball
has not moved a fraction of an inch from
the club head. Yet such a case is reported
from Queensland. The green-keeper had
taken advantage of the dry weather to burn
off the long grass flanking the fairways, and
a player lobbed his drive on to a spot over
which the fire had just passed. , The pill
looked O.K. when he got up to it, apart from
a little darkening of the complexion, which
he ascribed to smoke, so he took a swipe at
it with a midiron. He felt the smack which
means correct contact, but could see no ball
careering down the course. Then he looked
at the club head, and found the ball, now
resembling a trodden-on bun, adhering to the
steel head, the fire having softened it.
* * * *
“Glissade”: Anyone know which is the
highest golf course in the world? British
golf-writers have lately been making a fuss
about a new course opened at Pont Romeu,
in the Pyrenees, which is 6000 ft. above sea
level and far above the ordinary cloud level.
Even there the iron rules of golf may not
be broken, though they may be bent into a
“local.” One of these is that if your ball
goes over a precipice, you may drop another
—not necessarily down the precipice—and
incur a penalty of one stroke only. What
happens if you fall over yourself is not
stated, but it would certainly seem that your
opponent could claim the hole.
* * * *
“The McHaggis”: The most typical illus-
tration of the democracy of golf I can re-
call (B. 16/l/’29) is the advice tendered
by “Old Tom” Morris to the Prince Consort
when the latter, in pursuance of the Royal
family’s policy of doing in Scotland as the
Scots were supposed to do, tried his hand at
a round of St. Andrews under the patriarch’s
eye. “Deil rax me,” said the old autocrat
at last; “ye may be the daddy o’ the Queen’s
bairns an’ a’ that, but ye maun tak heed o’
what A’m tellin’ ye, if ye’d baud y’r lieid up
here.”
:H sis * *
“Centurion”: An interesting position has
arisen in connection "with the N.S.W. golf
tourney for the A.I.F. Service Cup which is
listed for February 27 on the Australian
golf links at Kensington. Hitherto, the
tournament has been confined to amateur
players. Members of the N.S.W. Profes-
sional Golfers’ Association who served at
the Front—Walter Clarke, last year’s profes-
sional champion, is only one of many—in-
tend to apply for admission, to the contest on
the grounds that there were no amateurs or
professionals “over there.” The conditions
for the Cup state that it is open for com-
petition to all who served at the Front with
the A.I.F. or to members of the British
Imperial forces who are members of an
Australian golf club. In some of the other
States, the annual A.I.F. fixtures are open
to pros, and amateurs alike. There is no
earthly reason why that should not be the
case in N.S.W.
* * * *
“Brassey”: You can’t beat these Scots
when it comes to golf or cash, and when
both are combined it is the very devil. Mac-
Donald Smith, of New York, is a case in
point, he having just gathered in one of
America’s richest golf prizes, the 10,060
dahler Los Angeles tourney, for the second
year in succession. Mac, like many of the
leading pros, in America, is a Scot, hav-
ing been born at Carnoustie, where they give
the bairns a midiron to cut their teeth on.
(Continued on next page.)


Ensure efficient running by fitting B.E.S.
SPARK PLUGS. A type for every car, truck,
tractor, cycle, aeroplane and marine engine.
Fully guaranteed. All garages. Price 4/6.
Manufactured by
Australian Spark Plugs Pty., Ltd.
562 Spencer Street, Melbourne, C.l.
’Phones: F 4947, F 5961.
Chains-Chains -- Chains -Chains
Australian-made—better than Imported
Support Your Secondary Industries
é
Conveyor
Chains.
Non-skid, hand-forged chains for a Ford to a
7-ton truck.
Chains for Collieries.
Chains for Brickyards.
Pit-cage chains.
Lashing chains.
Messenger and Steering-wheel chains.
Sling, Snigging, Plough and leading chains.
Roller and Conveyor chains of all descriptions.
Mooring and Ships’ Cable chains.
Made from best Staffordshire iron.
The only complete chain works in the Common-
wealth.
All chains tested to Lloyd’s standard and
certificates issued,
BLOOMERS CHAINS, LTD.,
BRISBANE.
ê
World's Pigeon Championship.
Melbourne Gun Club, July 6, 1928.
Ist. W. BAULDERSTONE (S.A.).
3rd. “CALROSSIE” (Vic.).
Both used
W. W. GREENER
GUNS.
There is no better
Shooting Gun made.
Procurable from all GUN DEALERS.
Catalogues on Application.
Wholesale Representatives;
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.
405 Lonsdaie Street, MELBOURNE. C.l.
Car and Cycle
“Hotham”: A fine cycling performance
was put up at Melbourne motordrome when
the Belgian rider Cor Blekemolen, paced by
R. Finlay, reduced the world’s record for
five miles, motor-paced and with a flying
start. He covered the distance in 4min.
39sec., cutting 1 2-ssec. off the time put
up in France by Rene Marronier last year.
At the same meeting a motor-paced match
between Hubert Opperman and the Franco-
African rider Ali Nefetti, over miles,
was won by the latter in lOmin. 50sec., the
fastest time for the distance yet recorded at
the motordrome under the new conditions
governing rollers.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: The attention of the
cycling community in N.S.W. is focussed on
the case of ex-amateur Jack Standen, who
recently turned professional in defiance of
the contract he signed before proceeding to
the Amsterdam Olympiad. This bound Stan-
den, as it did his fellow-members of the team,
to remain an amateur for two years after
returning, under a considerable cash penalty.
Standen repudiated the agreement on the
plea that he was under age when he signed
it. There seems to be an unsuspected lion
in his path, in the shape of the international
body governing cycling. This takes cogni-
sance of amateur and professional derelictions
alike, and should it be appealed to by the
Australian Olympic body it will probably
take steps to see that Standen honors his
undertaking to the amateurs, failing which
he may have to face the prospect of disquali-
fication as a professional as well as an ama-
teur rider. As regards other athletes who
may take the same step, it would appear that
they have nothing more to fear than a writ
for the sum mentioned in the undertaking.
As few of those who signed the egregious
bonds have sufficient worldly goods to satisfy
an execution for the rent of a peanut-stand
the prospect is not alarming.
* * * *
“Gustave”: Hitherto motor-cycle racing
has been regarded as a man’s sport, but now
an intruder in the field has appeared in the
person of a Miss Fay Taylour, who recently
arrived in Westralia from the Old Dart. She
was immediately booked to appear at the
iClaremont Speedway, and was supposed to
ride in three races. One of these was a
match race against a young man, whom she
defeated. After this she decided that, she
would not ride again that evening. Then
many of the 18,000 spectators became an-
noyed. The management compelled her to
ride again, and the noble sports hooted her
as she went round. Speedway crowds don’t
like being cheated of their prey—l mean
Play.
* * * *
“Contact”: The date for the Schneider
Cup seaplane race has been fixed for Sep-
tember 6 or 7, round the triangular course
over the Solent, between the Isle of Wight
and the English mainland. Britain won the
Cup at Venice last year with a Napier mono-
plane piloted by Flight-Lieutenant Webster.
His time has since been bettered by the
Italian Major Bernhardi and by the Brit-
ish airman Lieutenant D’Arcy Greig, both
of whom will be turning out in the coming
race.
* * * *
“Whizz”: A triangular road circuit at Le
Mans, 120 miles from Paris, has been selected
for the French Grand Prix limited-fuel race,
which will be held next June. This race
is run under the recently-adopted inter-
national rule providing for an allowance of
301 b. of petrol and oil per 62 miles. Com-
petitors can select their own proportions of
lubricant and fuel out of the total allowance,
it being understood that both engine and
transmission must be provided for. Mini-
mum weight of the cars is 19801 b. empty,
this including one spare wheel, which must
be carried during the race. The petrol tank
must be independent of the body and exter-
nal, no stream-lining being allowed. The
distance is 420 miles.
* * # *
“Trembler”: The British Junior Car Club
is staging an interesting and unusual com-
bination of speed and reliability trials at
Brooklands track in May. It is described as
a double 12-hour event, the cars racing in
two periods of 12 hours each and being
locked up for a 12-hour interval. Artificial
barriers and bends are to be introduced in
order to make the test a more searching one.
The idea of the 12-hour interval is a new one.
It will ensure that the highly-tuned cars,
after a run at top speed for the first section
of the race, will have to be restarted in cold
for another lengthy run —a very severe test
of reliability.
* * # *
“Garry”: In France it is an offence
punishable by fine for a pedestrian to get in
the way of a motor-car. In Spain, under an
ordinance recently issued by Primo de Rivera,
the motorist who hurts a pedestrian, how-
ever slightly, goes to gaol for six months, and
if he kills anyone on foot he inhabits the
jug for not less than 12 years. There are
darned few good drivers who will put the
harsh word on Primo. The first job of any-
body who steers a. hard and heavy vehicle
capable of tremendous speeds is to avoid
collisions. I know at least a hundred hard-
bitten old drivers —some of them date their
experience back to 1900 —whose boast it is
that though they have had their share of mis-
haps they never inflicted the slightest injury
on man, woman, child, dog or chook. In
the old days, when brakes and clutches were
apt to be uncertain and erratic, there was
some excuse for manslaughter. Still, there’s
an old one-lunger De Dion still chugging
about in Maoriland that simply would not
declutch, and tore brake linings into shreds,
which has not yet tasted blood.
Miscellaneous
“M.T.”; S. M. Dempster is a Sydney
yachtsman with a long list of yachting achieve-
ments to his credit. Besides being the foun-
der of the present 18-footer association in
Port Jackson, he owned and sailed the 30-
foot yacht Stormy Petrel in some big events,
and in that handy little craft at one time
made a five-months’ cruise from Sydney
along the Barrier Reef and round Cape York
to the Gulf, and back.
* * * *
“Swan”: Queensland, which has had a
mortgage on the 16-footer sailing champion-
ship of Australia for years, has had to strike
her colors to the Westralians. On the Swan
River the other day, Verona, sailed by Jack
Norris, won the third of three races i'or the
title from the Queensland flier Victor 11.
Each boat had won one race, and a great
battle saw the Westralian draw away to win
comfortably. Lily, another local craft, was
third.
* * * *
“Salambo”: Peru is the home of cockfight-
ing. A pair of birds costs anything up to
£25 or £3O; they are beautiful birds and
magnificent fighters. At the Gamecock Car-
nival at lea, on Independence Day, the
premier prize is never less than £2OO ( 2000
sols.), and sometimes this is doubled. Other
prizes reach £3O and £5O. In Lima every
alternate Thursday, mains are fought from
2 to 5 p.m.
* * * *
“York and Ainsty”: Fox-hunting, to which
Peter Beckwith first applied the title “the
sport of kings,” which has since been per-
verted to. baser uses, is in a bad way in Eng-
land, owing to the motor craze. This year
hunting with all the famous packs has been
ruined by the incursion of hordes of non-
descripts in motor-cars who chase up and
down the roads, thereby not only seriously
incommoding the old and careful who pre-
fer to do their hunting between hedges
rather than over them, but turning foxes
and committing all the other sins of the
hunting man’s decalogue. Worse than all,
the petrol and oil odors have frequently
ruined the scent to a far worse degree than
even “them stinkin’ wiolets” to which the
old-time huntsman referred on a famous
occasion.
* i[: * *
“Murder”; “Strangler” Lewis, the second
of the name, has lost his world’s heavy-
weight wrestling title in America. The un-
fortunate fellow was so ill-advised as to pit
G. DUCKWORTH, the little Lancashire
wicketkeeper, whose artistry with the
gloves has been one of the features of
the Englishmen’s tour. (Photo by May
Moored.)
himself against Gus Sonnenburg, a leading
exponent of that form of lethal assault and
battery which is known as American foot-
ball. Used to the conventional ferocities
of the wrestling mat, to which the exploits
of Kilonis and others accustomed us in Aus-
tralia, he seems to have approached his task
in the usual spirit of unheeding gaiety.
Sonnenburg dropped him for a fall with
what is described as a “typical flying
tackle” (American style), and the chronicle
goes on to say that after he had been “butted
out of the ring seven times” “Strangler”
was disqualified for refusing to face any
more of that music.
* * * *
“Blade”: Sculler Bob Pearce seems to
have a difficulty in making up his mind
as to whether lie will turn professional or
not. In any case he apparently proposes
to defend his Australian title as champion
amateur sculler at Perth in May next, for
he has refused an invitation to row in
Maoriland in March as an amateur, and
gives his Westralian engagement as a reason
for refusing.
* * * *
“Third Base”: The Australian Baseball
Council has been trying to get a good Ameri-
can coach to tune up the local form, and
S. M. DEMPSTER, ex-Commodore of the
Royal Prince Alfred Yacht Club of
Sydney, for years one of the -pro-
minent personalities of Australian
yachting.
has received an offer from Harry Wolter,
■sHio was over here as coach of Stanford Uni.
team last yedr. Wolter has undertaken to
coach for one season if terms can be
arranged, Stanford granting him the neces-
sary leave. An old professional player from
the New York American League club, he is
recognised as one of America’s leading
coaches. As the average high-class American
coach is unobtainable save at great expense,
Welter’s offer has come in the light of a god-
send to the Australian authorities, and it
will probably be accepted.
+ * * *
Harry Sunderland: “Hooker” is talking
through his hat when he says (B. 9/l/’29)
that ex-Waratah half Malcolm is too good
a type to see drift into the ranks of pro-
fessional sport. Malcolm has already been
in the much-maligned professional ranks. He
played as a Rugby League half-back in an
Ipswich (Q.) Rugby League club, and in
1925 also played for the Queensland Rugby
League thirteen against N.S.W. It was
after that that Malcoln “drifted’’ —I use
“Hooker’s” own expression—back into the
Union ranks, and he has since been to both
England and Maoriland with Union rep.
teams, notwithstanding the fact that he had
never been set down for any period to be
cleansed of his professional iniquities. Men
can be good types and good sports, whether
pros, or amateurs. No breed, brand or type
of sport has a monopoly of sportmanship.
Isn’t Pat Ilendren a professional? And
weren’t the much-discussed Olympic reps,
who would not train perfectly proper lily-
white amateurs?
* * * *
“Ride Off” ; Australians invaded the United
States last week with the biggest team of
polo ponies which has ever broken into the
secluded fastnesses of San Francisco. There
were 48 of them, all but 10 being the ponies
taken to Honolulu for training and accli-
matisation by 0. J. Skene, of Goulburn
(N.S.W.), and his partners in the venture.
The ponies will be used by the adventurers
in a series of matches against Californian
teams, after which they will be disposed of
in the States. The balance of the 48 are
also Australian-bred, but have been American-
owned in Hawaii for some time.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: Bunyip (Vic.) put up some-
thing of a record in dead heats at a recent
Caledonian sports meeting. J. Purvis and V.
Top. starting from different marks in a
Sheffield handicap, finished level in no less
than three attempts to decide the issue. Then
they divided.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Hayband”: A Sydney firm marked
“Please” at the foot of an overdue account
It came back without a cheque; but under
the “Please” was written “Sorry.”
* * * *
“Rigalt”: Bung sometimes shows glimmer-
ings of originality in his bar-room notices.
Recently I came on one which ran: “By
arrangement with the banking institutions
in the Commonwealth, it has been agreed
(1) that no publican shall cash cheques,
and (2) that no bank shall sell beer.”
* * * *
“Emgee”: The English taste for fresh as
distinguished from salt butter (B. 2/l/’29)
is most noticeable in London and the
southern comities. In the north of England
and Scotland salt butter still has the pre-
ference. In Glasgow I was rather stumped .
when asked would I have “poodered” or
fresh butter. My amazement must have
been apparent, for it was explained that
“poodered” butter was the salted article.
* * * *
“Hamer”: British papers are marvelling
at the introduction of match-making
machines which render the whole process,
from log to finished and packed matches,
automatic and continuous. Australia has
had similar machines for years. Those first
used by Bryant and May, Australia, came
from Sweden; to-day every bit of machinery
in the factory has been made by the co.’s
Australian engineers. The process starts
with the elevation of the timber to the top
floor; from that point every operation is
automatic until the packages drop into the
boxes, which then have merely to be nailed
up for transport.
* * * *
“Juice”; The manufacture of power
alcohol for internal combustion engines from
North Queensland molasses is approaching
the marketing stage. The product will be
blended with petrol, and the Shell Co. is
to handle the output. The first plant, at
Plane Creek, near Mackay, can turn out up
tc 600,000 gallons a year, and additional
plants at Cairns and Townsville will raise
these figures to 2,000,000 gallons. The suc-
cess of the new fuel will not only benefit
the sugar industry by the profitable utilisa-
tion of a waste product, but will be of
inestimable value to Australia, hitherto de-
pendent on outsiders for motor fuels.
* * * *
“Hamba Gachle”: Cuba has furnished an
encouraging precedent for the use of megasse
—the refuse of the sugar-cane after crush-
ing—in Queensland. The megasse produced
in Cuba is about 15 million tons annually,
and a company has patented a process for
converting it into paper pulp and into a
fibre claimed to be superior to jute. Manu-
facture on a commercial scale has been begun
in one of a chain of factories it is proposed
to erect. The mill is capable of producing
120 tons of pulp daily, and the U.S.A. has
undertaken to absorb the output.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Thousands of Melbourne workers’
families are finally revolting against the
smellful rows of tenements copied from Eng-
land, the 20-foot frontages and the shocking
lack of parks and playing-grounds in such
areas as Richmond and Fitzroy. One muni-
cipality recently reported a loss of nearly
2000 ratepayers, and hundreds of empty
shacks are advertising the fact. On the
other side of the picture is the extraordinary
growth of suburbs north and east as much
as 15 miles from the centre of the city’s
murk.
* * *
“P.M.”: Not all Victoria sings hosannas
to Yallourn. I know a butter-factory which
went to a great expense installing electric
motors and switched on Yallourn. Their
power costs went up, so they installed a
crude-oil engine and dynamo and gave the
motors a trial on their own current. They
soon switched Yallourn off altogether. One
country town ran its own electric-light plant
for years ; it employed two men, a manager
who did the meter-reading, collecting, etc.,
and an assistant who drove the suction-gas
engine and did general electrical work. When
the Commission took over, it delivered power
from Yallourn, and kept two men on. the
assistant pottering about with street lights,
meters, etc., and the manager’s pay was
raised on account of his increased status as
a Government official! For 24 units for
the next quarter I was charged 275.; it
would have cost me 18s. before. I had the
light cut off, and so did many others. It
is this sort of thing that has started a de-
mand for a flat rate. Anything else will
only help centralisation, and, Heaven knows,
Victoria has enough of that already.
* * -jp *
“Chevroford”: The queerest use to which
rubber has yet been put is at Monte Carlo.
The coast of the Cote D’Or is painfully
rocky, so the municipality lias devoted
£850,000 of the Casino earnings to the con-
struction of a rubber beach. On this sand
has been piled, the whole is fenced and 8
smalj admission fee is charged.


ALFRED J. BRITON.
A NEW BODY—
FOR YOU!
IN JUST THIRTY DAYS! !
Is this a miracle, that changes men almost overnight
into wonderful specimens of virile manhood? Read
this message — it’s written especially for you: —
YOU are going to get the surprise of your life when
A you look in your mirror this time next month!
You’ll see a DIFFERENT MAN! Not the chap
you’ve known all your life as YOU, but another man
entirely! A big, strapping, handsome fellow who looks
as if he is fit for anything!—ready to' go out and
conquer the World! Yes, you’ll see a man who’s
fairly ALIVE with health, vitality, strength ! There’ll
be a flash in his eye and a glow in his cheeks. Thoso big, broad shoulders —that deep,
powerful chest —that slim, athletic waist. And those MUSCLES! They’ll stand out in
huge masses on his arms—he’ll be a mass of rippling strength from tip to toes. Yes,
sir, that man you see will be YOU!
NOW IT’S YOUR TURN!
Let me do for you all I have done for thousands of ethers. Let me give you the pleasantest surprise
you ever had in your life! Let me build you a set of muscles that will add INCHES to your amis,
your shoulders, your chest. Let me put that body of yours RIGHT, put new life and strength into
your vital organa—your lungs, your stomach, your heart. I’ll do all this for you. I don’t just say
it—l’ll GUARANTEE it!
LETTERS! LETTERS! LETTERS!
Positive proof arriving from all over Australia!
“My chest, arms and shoulders have increased tvonderfully, and my waist is getting slimmer. Your
course would make the weakest stripling strong.”—R. Gordon, Queensland.
“I am more than satisfied with the results.” —A. H. Early, Queensland.
“I have gained three inches around the chest.” —G. Lewis, N.S.W.
“Before I took your system up the doctors told me I had a very weak heart. They have examined me
now and said I was in the best of health, thanks to your wonderful system.”—M. W. Carter, Vic,
“I have nothing but praise for the results, and I am surprised that I could develop as I have done in
only fifteen (15) days. Muscles are showing everywhere.”—G. A. Standen, N.S.W.
“Your excellent system is wonderful.” —V. A. Payne, Fed. Territory.
“My chest has developed wonderfully, and I continue to make all-round improvement."—R. Burrow 7 ,
N.S.W.
These Letters, and hundreds more, may be seen at my offices at any time.
“SECRETS OF MUSCULAR STRENGTH.”
Is the greatest book ever published on the subject. Crammed full of amazing photos. It will show you
the short-cut to great strength and development. You don’t want to remain in the ORDINARY class
now. Get this book and be a super-man. It’s FREE!
RUSH THIS COUPON ALONG—NOW!
GET THIS AMAZING BOOK NOW!
ë
ē
ĕ
ė
Get every word with
MAGNAVOXI
M agnavox Dynamic Radio
Speaker gives clear articula- '
tion of the spoken as well as
singing voice, life-like real-
ism that is startling in its
fidelity to life itself *
i m
ft
The Aristocrat
A.C., £lB/10/-
D.C., £l6/10/-
A.C. Unit fits in any
cabinet, £lO/10/-
Come in and hear Magnavox today.
Let us show you the many beautiful
cabinet and table speakers in the lir»r
YOUR NEAREST RADIO DEALER
CAN DEMONSTRATE.
H4CNAVCX
dynamic speaker
Australian Patent No. 7226.
300 SATISFYING SHAVES RAZOR
and share with thousands of others the
BHBHHcomtort that shave aftershave of satin smooth !
brings to users of THE PLUM RAZOR.
ę
ě
e
Cmrdoked x '£>! i
in order for two
CRAIG&AITKEN.6S4 GEORGE ST.SYDNEYJ
ATISM
WHY SUFFER
DAILY TORTURE?
WHEN IN 24 HOURS YOU CAN TELL
HOW GOOD IS THIS 40-YEAR-OLD REMEDY
THOUSANDS of men and women are living, not
merely in daily pain, but in daily peril of heart
trouble due to Rheumatism in some form or
another. The chronic pain which we call Rheumatism
is due to excess of Uric Acid poisons and harmful
bacteria in the blood. The Kidneys are not carrying out
their work properly, and these poisons, instead of passing
out of the body, accumulate. So, in addition to agonising
pains day and night, vital organs such as the heart are
weakened in their action. This is your chief danger—
a danger you should not neglect.
A REMEDY with a WORLD-WIDE REPUTATION
There is a remedy that will act quickly and surely. It
is recommended the world over and tested in tens of
thousands of cases for over forty years. Your chemist
stocks De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, and sells
them to you under the guarantee of satisfaction or money
back.
Tern of Thousands Trust This Remedy.
From the first dose, within 24 hours, you will see
and know they are doing you good. Persevere with
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills and you will
banish your painful, dangerous symptoms. Many,
once bed-ridden, crippled by Rheumatism, in torture
day and night, have found real health again in this
40-year-old remedy. Ask your Chemist how good
it is. He knows the value of the prescription clearly
printed on every box, and can tell you why l)e
Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills can, will and
must do you good.
Almost every post brings written proof of the
value of this remedy, generally in cases where
everything else has failed. Here is just one of
thousands of such letters.
Mr. W. C. Everett, 150 Weston Road, Rozelle, Sydney,
N.S.W., writes: “For over two years I was troubled with
bad pains in the back, and sluggish feeling every morning.
I suffered very badly and could not lay on my left side or
back, and I was in constant pain. 1 tried lots of well-
known preparations until a friend, who was a sufferer from __
Lumbago, told me that De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills were the only things that gave relief I
decided to try them, and after taking only half a -bottle of pills I felt better. I am now in perfect
health. 1 am very thankful and tell other sufferers all about De Witt’s.”
Every box of “De Witt’s” bears the name clearly printed so that you cannot be
mistaken, and it is to your own health interest to be sure that you ask for and see
you obtain the genuine De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills. They are sold in two sizes
—3/6 and the larger, more economical size 6/6. There is no substitute and nothing
just as good.
e
r
©
<0
<7
E
KIDNEY &
BLADDER
I
THE REMEDY WHICH PROVES RESULTS.


Under
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1920.
To H.NL
George V
CHAMPAGNE
mail
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGHC
'iarleslleidsiecK
Reims
wsmsnSP
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Averts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
vtADy
&
&6(LO
IUISINS
Cakes and puddings are appre-
ciably improved by the inclu-
sion of these choicest of all
raisins. Ask friend Grocerl
&
7hp centre of Queens/onc/s
disfingu/shec/ Soc/o/ Life*
Wote\
onT CD
BRISBANE
e
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane .
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
SLIPPER
HEEL
SILK HOSIERY
Bong Bong, little sister to Tirranna, cele-
brated her 39th birthday last week, and
never in her history, nor the history of any
other picnic meeting in this State, has there
been such a turf sensation as when Bronze
Fuze, owned by H. 0, Osborne, with John
Gaxieu up, in the coveted Bong Bong Cup,
airived at the winning-post blinded by dope.
Gay city folk, who look upon Bong Bong
as one of their yearly dress parades, arriv-
ing in their masses just about this time',
helped to carry on the enthusiasm, which
otherwise would have petered out; for you
can’t throw deeper gloom over your true
bushman than by ill-treating his horse.
There was only a film of smoke from the
bush-fires over the course for the opening
day; so everybody was pleased and said
what fun picnic-meetings were, and a girl
who said it loudest wore a green chiffon
frock, chiffon stockings, high-heeled shoes
and a five-guinea hat and a gun-shade with
a carved handle bought in some Arcadian
retreat off the Rue de la. Paix. Perhaps the
sun was a bit hot, but that’s where the sun-
shades in their peony pinks, their del-
phinium blues, their garden and futuristic
designs came out in full flower. They
bloomed on the hill and on the flat, and
gave cheerfulness and .color to a countryside
browned by too ardent a sun.
The big gun of this year’s meeting was
Dr. Norman Kater, who, while Tony jHorderu
is away, is acting president. He. looked like
an Anglo-Indian nabob in his solar topee;
and Mrs. Norman, in her brown spotted
crepe de Chine and shady hat, combined a
warm smile and a cool appearance. The
hospitable pair brought a great house-party
over from their Moss Vale home, Mount
Broughton, and had a canvas roof-tree to
welcome them under at lunchtime. Secretary
Elwyn Blomfield was among others who put
up a wigwam to keep the bottled beer reason-
ably cool. But the great proletariat lunched
in the neighborhood of their Rolls Royces
under the ancestral willows or gums. A
thing to be noted in the dressing was that
blue in all its skyey tints was popular with
the matrons, while green was almost the
universal wear of the young. Jean Kater
sported it in the deep handkerchief collar
of her sand-georgette frock, and Barbara
Littlejohn wore a frock of it. Marjorie
Osborne did likewise, adding a primrose
hat that flopped and was flower-decked.
Thelma McMaster and Ann Jamieson were
two more green young things; and Audrey
Hordern, in beige crepe de Chines, was one
of the meeting’s attractions. Commodious
and serviceable was Mrs. Leslie Willsallen’s
sunshade of what was apparently grand-
mother’s Paisley shawl built on the ribs of
grandfather’s wet-weather brolly. Mrs. Alan
Binnie was the only tweed-suited woman on
the horizon. Mrs. Sep Levy arrived in
the afternoon very collected in lavender and
silver. Mrs. Harry Dransfield motored her-
self and a woman friend up from town.
Helen and Norah Cordeaux were among
Bowral’s young flutterers, as were a group
of girls in riding-kit. Valerie Purves kept
up Melbourne’s reputation for looks, Betty
Willsallen fluttered like a pink-and-black
butterfly, tall Mary Lee was a graceful
wearer of powder-blue, and secretary Elwyn
Blomfield’s wife wore navy and white with
distinction.
There were dances on the three nights,
the Country Women bagging the gate-money
on the first night and the golf club on the
second; the Club’s own Race Ball filled the
third. This was held in the Agricultural
Pavilion, beautifully decorated by sons and
daughters of members of the race club and
the C.W.A.
After the last race of all Dr. Norman
Kater’s wife, dressed in beige ensemble with
a hat to match her nut-brown eyes, handed
out the trophies to bashful winners, whilst
the crowd heckled them for the speeches
to which they turn the yearly deaf ear,
Harry Osborne being the only exception.
The Stan O’Keefes found a pair of draught
horses useful for the return journey, so
heavy was the load of cut-glass, china,
plate and leather goods they had to take
home, not forgetting the coveted Bong Bong
Cup. Tom Rutledge topped off his armful
of trophies with a jade pendant—to the
chorus of “That’s No Trinket for a Bachelor.’’
Amateur riders excelled themselves by dead-
heating twice in onfe afternoon.
Cheers were given for Elwyn Blomfield and
his wife for the way they had shepherded
the flock at both Tirranna and Bong Bong.
The Moss Vale Golf Club’s ball was the
general meeting-place on the Thursday night.
The weather was hot and still, but it seemed
a point of honor to foot it gaily till almost
daybreak in the new Agricultural Hall in
the Showground. Supper was in the old barn
behind the new building. Altogether the
dance was such a success that it was a
pity the president, Mrs. T. McCarthy, was
not able to be present. Molly McLeish and
Ethel Campbell, who had shared the secre-
tarial duties, were on deck, the one in tur-
quoise, the other in flame chiffons. Green
with a lilac arabesque enwrapped Mrs.
Henry Ivater, and Valerie Purves looked like
a very ornate doll in layers of mauve and
blue. Pretty Gwen Brown wore white, and
a pink frock deepened the roses in Betty
Robinson’s cheeks. Moth-like grey chiffons
were flown by Mary O’Keefe, whose father’s
horse Anvil had won the Cup.
Now that Campbell Gibson, the present
owner of Tirranna, has built his hew bachelor
home on the flat adjoining the racecourse,
the old Tirranna homestead on the hill is
deserted. It seems a pity to let it become one
of those houses inhabited only by the ghosts
of former laughter and tears; but the new
place is one of those ultra-modern examples
of convenience, with study and dining-room
and bathroom within stretch of a foot, so
to speak.
Incidentally, not all the real Tirranna
people want to cityfy their meeting. Though
visitors may wear Randwick frocks, the
people from the surrounding homesteads
stick to their picnic clothes. And still the
fences are of sapling rails; still the gunyahs
have bagging roofs weighted and shaded with
branches of gam-trees. Perhaps it was re-
gret at the tendency towards making Tir-
ranna a fashion parade which was respon-
sible for the Chisholm boys starting a tiny
club at Kippelaw.
There’s a stab that’s going deeper than
the serpent’s tooth in the breast of some
Darling Pointers and the leaders of women’s
movements in this big city. Maude Royden,
the woman preacher with the arresting way
of dishing up platitudes, has declared in
London that Australians are “rough and
ready.” Months before the preacher arrived
a Maude Royden Reception Committee was
formed. On this were women representative
of most of the arts and professions. They
were formed into a sort of guard of angels
for the visitor, so that her path among us
might be magnolia-smooth. She was feted
and petted and lapped about with civic
receptions. Yet she has told the world ,we
are rough and ready! Her Australian
hostesses are running over all the doings
of the lady’s visit and wondering in what
respects they fell short of an English-
woman’s expectations.
Claire Scott, the fair-haired, subject of
this May Moore picture, was widely known
in Melbourne’s
art circles, her
father being
Charles Ed-
ward Scott,
who studied at
the Melbourne
gallery with
Coates, Street-
on, Withers
and Tom
lioberts. Pri-
vately the
lady is Mrs.
John Dailey,
and her home
is now in
Sydney. But
the clever jac-
ket and maga-
zine covers
she designs
are still
signed Claire
Scott, and so
are the portraits of the children which are
born of her brush and pencil.
The Adams-Flynn wedding at St. Mary’s
was the big matrimonial flutter of the week,
and the Cathedral was crowded with women
keen to see the passing of the expensive
frocks and cloaks. The bride was Ranee
Adams, and as her misty whiteness melted
into the lily-leaf greenness of her four ’maids
at the top of the Cathedral steps, one thought
of water-lilies glimmering in the dusk. The
wedding frock was of ivory satin, and had
a transparent yoke and hem on which a
deep leaf design was worked in silver thread
on dull silver. A foamy wash of tulle and
a sheaf of miniature white calla-lilies were
other details in the picture. Then came the
’maids—Jean Adams, Flo Flynn, Marjorie
Bridge and Margot Meagher, in lily-leaf
green tulle, the irregular skirts very bouffant
and fashioned with gathered tucks. Shoulder
capelets of tulle swayed in . each breath of
air that strayed up the palm- and lily-decked
aisle. These little capes were caught on
the shoulder with bows and held with leaf-
shaped rhinestone ornaments. Hats of the
same green as the frocks drooped on each
head, and the four carried golden sheaves.
Father Iverwick, with the help of Dean
Crowley, administered the oath, which Dr.
James Flynn took with eagerness, not to say
pride. Best man was Dr. Richard Flynn,
while Dr. Bill .Chenall, Dr. Kevin Collins
and Dr. Ross Nott were others who part-
nered the bridesmaids. Later the guests
assembled at the Ambassadors, where it was
flowers all the way from the entrance; and
pink and white tiger lilies and frangipanni
knotted with silver bells trailed across the
table where the bride smiled. A frock
beaded entirely in white chalk that provided
background for an unusual design in lines
of gold beads hung with empire wreaths of
pale pink roses was worn by Mrs. W. J.
Adams, the bride’s mother. When the new
Mrs. Flynn left for her honeymoon she
slipped on one of those new transparent
velvet coats in apricot pink patterned in
white. The frock it covered was of apricot-
pink chiffon, its skirt fashioned like a shell
outlined in dull gold bugles. Mrs. Ferdi-
nand Playoust, Ranee’s elder sister, was a
notable dresser at the feast. Her frock
combined chiffons like a pale La France rose,
and her coat was a beauteous affair of rose
du Barry velvet and sable. Three hundred
and fifty guests cheered the pair as they
departed, among them Andy Watt, K.C.,
whose speech had been the hit of the even-
ing. The bride, by the way, is one of the
Tattersall Adamses, and Dr. Jim is a son
of the late well-known Dr. John Flynn, and
one of four brilliant brothers, all selling
health to Sydney.
The lady with this finely-drawn face is
Mrs. A. G. Thomas, president of the Lyceum
Club in Syd-
ney. Under
her presidency
the Lyceum is
forging stead-
ily ahead,
helping to
mould th e
writers and
artists of to-
day and to-
morrow. The
Lyceum,
founded by
Mrs. Rose
Soley, was the
first torch lit
to the glory of
literature and
the arts gen-
erally by the
women of Aus-
tralia. It is
affiliated with
the London
Lyceum, and it demands that its members
shall have done some work in the field of
creative art. Before her marriage Mrs.
Thomas was a noted musician. May Moore
made the photo for us.
The North Shore suburbs are in mourning.
Up there a man is hardly respectable if lie
can’t flaunt a prize bloom in the face of his
neighbors; and now the Water Board has
put its heavy, clumsy hand upon the
sprinkler and the “unattended” hose, though
after six months’ drought the earth is thirsty
as a police-court crowd on Monday morning.
The housewife. who digs her vegetables out
of the corner of a Dariinghurst kitchenette
isn’t allowed to forget that drought either:
potatoes are the size of diamonds, and'nearly
as dear, and the salad vegetable is almost
extinct. There is nearly as bad to come
even if Mr. Mares does soon relent. One
poor battler in an orchard at St. Ives un-
burdened his soul to this Letter a day or
two ago. Next season’s crop of oranges
should j'ust be “setting,” but on 300 trees
he hadn’t been able to find half a dozen fruit.
And that’s a greater tragedy, after all, than
a wilting rose by the front doorstep.
The Bulletin’s old friend John Longstaft
has again carried off the Archibald Prize.
This time it is for his portrait of Dr. Alex-
ander Deeper, a former Warden of Trinity
College, University of Melbourne. The scarlet
and mauve of the doctor’s gown make a
striking pool of color, from which the head
and the hands emerge a little faded and
worn, but both proudly and purposefully
held, George Lambert’s portrait of Julian
Ashton gets attention, too. Those who
know the veteran artist will see an uncanny
likeness about the sideways slant of the
pose, the tired droop of the sensitive hand
from the thin wrist, the shrewd amusement
in the mouth and eyes.
Though The Bulletin’s old chief might
have liked to see a younger man win the
prize—worth now well over £5O0 —he would
still rejoice in Longstaff’s success. None
sooner saw the great promise of the young
Victorian, who 30-odd years ago won Aus-
tralia’s then most important Travelling
Scholarship with his “Breaking the News.”
Archibald liked it so much that he and his
partner William Macleod bought it; and it
still hangs in Mr. Macleod’s private gallery,
at Dunvegan, Mosman.
This is the fly season in Sydney. Through
the holidays and at every week-end since,
taxi-’planes have been doing a roaring trade
at Narrabeen, where the sands give an ideal
landing-ground. Last week-end four of them
were skimming over that glorious water-
front. The queue of waiting joy-riders has
been so great that in the afternoons there
hasn’t been time even to stop the engines.
This last week-end a monoplane went further
afield, and made a landing-ground of the
Brooklands speedway near Penrith, and
motor tourists crowded in for an extra thrill.
Another matter of give and take blessed
by Father Whelan at St. Mary’s had
Dorothea Burg, of Sydney, and James Ham-
mond, of Cowra, as principals. This bride's
white georgettes and Limerick lace were
ankle-length, and the train of georgette
which fell from the shoulders blushed' with
a rosy lining. Three ’maids, in harmonising
tones of daffodil, primrose and lilac, stepped
after the bride. David Jones’s housed the
reception. There are not many things that
David Jones’s can’t house in their new
quarters.
A pretty bride who passed last week under
the eye of Cardinal Moran on' her 1 way to
the holy estate in St. Mary’s was Helen
(Micky) Post Mason, of Potts Point. White
georgette and a mist of tulle.with a full com-
plement of orange blossom went to the
bride’s make up, while sister Sylvia’s array
of lilac organdie and pale pink satin was
unusual and attractive. The bridegroom in
the case was Philip Spence, of Port Mac-
quarie.
Pink-spotted net ruffled and frilled from
ankle to waist was worn by Lowla Pain, of
Cremorne, when she became Mrs. John 11. C.
Read. St. Philip’s, on Church Hill, blessed
the vows; and the Wentworth saw to the
other part of the ritual under the direction
of Mr. and Mrs. G. T. M. Pain. The ’groom
is the son of Dr. and Mrs. Clarence Bead,
of Chatswood.
A wedding that will mean aotlier society
exodus to Moss Yale is that of Jean Ivater
to Randal Munro, a son of the Boss Munros,
of Queensland. It is timed for early in
February, and will be continued at the Nor-
man ICaters’ home, Mount Broughton, after
the ceremony in All Saints’, Sutton Forest.
Pipers and the Munro tartan will animate
the scene.
Another early-February bride will be
Glory Bohrsmann, the pretty and only daugh-
ter of Dr. Hall Bohrsmann, of Newtown.
She will become Mrs. John Wallis at St.
Mark’s on the 12th.
The Sydney Repertory Society is strug-
gling to rise out of the cold ashes of its
dead self and wing its way to higher things.
This time .T. and N. Tait will be neither the
ark nor the Ararat on which the Phoenix
bird will seek to rest. The new venture has
A E. Jobson for its president and Mrs.
Hilda Martyn for its secretary, and seeks a
minimum of 350 members. The subscription
will be three guineas, and during the year
the society’s programme would contain four
piays acted by members, a series of play-
readings and a series of lectures on matters
affecting the theatre. Gregan McMahon is
allowing the members the use of his very
well-equipped theatrical library. Meantime
Don Finley is shepherding his Turret
Theatre (and the title shows imagination)
to a successful opening.
Bethia, only child of the Brigadier-General
Andersons, of Turramurra, is marrying into
the military, too. She’s j us t e ßgaged herself
to Thomas H. B. Foott, Staff Corps R.A.E.,
only son of Brig.-General C. H. Foott, State
Commandant at Brisbane. There are strong
leanings to literature in both families.
Soon after the Woman’s Mirror was born
a group of interested people got talking about
prospects. Said one, “I’ll shout you all a
dinner when you reach 50,000. Thatset
them'going; another would do it at 75JXXT;
another —scornfully this one —at 100,0011.
Bert Toy, the editor, said lie could be called
on at 125,000; and the hardiest of them
would pay for the re-union at the 150,001)
mark. The 50,000, 75,000 and 100,000 din-
ners were eaten (and drunk) months ag°>
the 125,000 mark was reached, and Bert
Toy looked round for his guests. They were
scattered, but not beyond _ hope; and last
week, being practically all in Sydney again,
the delayed celebration occurred at Paris
House. In the midst of it the accusing voice
of general manager H. K. Prior was heard
reminding somebody or other of a dinner to
be paid for at 150,000, and announcing that
that week’s circulation was 149,700, with
the barometer still rising.
Old P.L.C. girls who remember Josephine
(Phinie) Paxton will be interested to hear
that she is still studying painting with Pro-
fessor Tonks at the well-known Slade Art
School in London, using her vacations for
landscape and figure work in Cornwall and
Somerset and in the south of France. She
had two oils hung at the annual exhibition
of the Toynbee Art Club last year, and
another picture —of an Exmoor shepherd
was shown at the last exhibition of the New
English Art Club, an important show ol
modern art that is held twice a year.


m
&BsS£SiSS£<
*1
mm
SB*
■ fill®
o
H
W:«
-■
.
■>»
E
■
■ SS ■
.
m
m
The joyfully anticipated
holiday arrives your
wardrobe is crowded
with a host of lovely
gowns for all occasions
—your hosiery, so much
in evidence, is created
by Prestige to lend dis-
tinction to your perfect
toilette.
c An
cAustraiian
Creation
c Hosiery
FULLY FASHIONED
r Pttb


Sfie WENTWORTH
A Hotel of ‘Distinction
To which men and women of Distinction the world over
return time after time. Built on historic Church Hill, it
has itself become of almost historic interest. Here, in the
heat of summer is the cool and restful comfort that results
from scientific ventilation, and in winter cold winds are
forgotten in its centrally heated atmosphere. Here, too,
are a perfect cuisine, a spacious lounge and efficient
service—service so graciously given that it has earned
for the Hotel in Australia and Overseas the title of
The friendly Wentworth
CABLE ADDRESS: MUM, SYDNEY. TELEPHONE: BWI3 61.
BELLEVUE HILL*
“CAERLEON ESTATE
ON THE HEIGHTS, WITH UNPARALLELED PANORAMIC
VIEWS OF THE HARBOR FROM PORTIONS OF THE ESTATE.
13 LIBERAL-SIZED ALLOTMENTS
13 LIBERAL-SIZED ALLOTMENTS
IN SYDNEY’S EXCLUSIVE HOME CENTRE.
Formerly the Grounds to the Mansion of the late Sir Rupert Clarke Bart.
Tn the vicinity of the Magnificent Homes of Walter Brunton, Esq., Colin Stephen,
Esq E W. Knox, Esq.; adjoins the residences of the late Sir James Fairfax
and Dr.' Stuart McKay, and opposite that of Sir Mark Sheldon.
With frontages to Kambala Road and Rupertswood Avenue.
TERMS: 10 per cent, deposit, balance in 12 equal quarterly
payments. Interest: 6 per cent.
TORRENS TITLE. LITHOGRAPHS NOW AVAILABLE.
SOLICITORS: Messrs. WHITING & BYRNE, 101 William Street,
Melbourne. Represented by their Sydney Agents, Messrs.
MINTER, SIMPSON & CO., 33 Hunter Street, Sydney.
SURVEYOR: NORMAN K. BENNETT, Esq., 28 Martin Place, Syd.
AUCTION SALE ON THE GROUND,
SATURDAY, 16th FEBRUARY, 1929, AT 3 P.M.
RICHARDSON & WRENCH, LIMITED,
AUCTIONEERS 92 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
9 9
Melbourne
Chattel
While the rest of the Commonwealth
swelters we have little to growl about re-
garding weather. True, we have had some
dust, but the coolth at the end of the week
has made full amends. At Caulfield on Satur-
day the trees cast purple shadows on the
green sward of the bird-cage, and a spring
freshness in the breeze brought the sunny
lawns into favor. The weather was too
bright for coats and skirts, though mild
enough, so crepe de Chine, georgette and
even patterned filmy chiffons were fluttered
by fair racegoers. The attendance was as
large as could be expected at this time of the
year. The Ben Lemprieres were there, also
Mrs. T. A. Tabart with daughter Edna,
whose navy frock was brightened with lemon-
colored additions and a felt hat. Mrs. Tom
Grantham, lately returned from an oversea
tom - , was accompanied by Mrs. O’Dell Crow-
ther; Mrs. E. A. Spowers had touches of
yellow upon a black and grey-lined frock
topped by a ballibuntal straw; Mrs. Jack
Graham wore beige chiffon and lace; Mrs.
A. Gunn was a study in grey, and Mrs.
Murray Morton, who was with her medico
husband, wore black satin. The Dan Taylors
—he is a part-owner of Garonuy—were also
among the onlookers.
People who upset their domestic arrange-
ments to give evangelist Maud Royden free
bed and board during her recent tour of
Australia and Maoriland nrast feel a little
hurt at their guest’s cabled commentaries
on the “rough and ready” sort of life that
is led in this part of the globe. She was
entertained in luxurious private homes, and
given the sole use of a motor-car in almost
every instance, her advance representative
having requested that private hospitality
should be extended on account of the
preacher’s delicate health and her handicap
of lameness. Probably that’s where we
erred; we forgot that nearly 2000 years ago
the Roydens were adjured to trudge forth
afoot with staff and scrip, taking no money
in their purse.
Time was when the leeches recommended
an ocean trip to patients in need of rest
and quiet, but passengers by a modern
liner don’t get much of either. A lately re-
turned traveller said she appeared to be
among the very few on the passenger list
who did not teke a portable gramophone
aboard. The dozens of gramophones on
deck mingled with the gobbles and squawks
of the loud-speaker radio by day, and at night
canned music was turned on in many of
the cabins.
Girl Guides from other States and Maori-
land to the number of 120 have pitched
their tents for a 10-day camp outside
Frankston, on Mrs. G. Masterton’s property.
Miss M, E. Bush, of the Victorian branch,
and Else Smith, of the N.S.W. section, are
in charge.
Lady Somers, as State Commissioner,
looked in on the camp on Wednesday, samp-
ling the commissariat at luncheon. Later
Lady Stonehaven arrived to preside at a
meeting of the Federal Council of Girl
Guides, which was held at the near-by
Toorak College. One of the visitors here
for this girl guide rally was Miss Kelso
King, of Sydney, who is the Federal Sec.
Lady Somers again journeyed to Franks-
ton on Friday and attended a meeting of the
Federal Council, taking her share of camp
duties and recreations during her stay. When
the moon came out and camp-fires were lit,
the Governor, as Chief Scout, joined the
circle and gave an address that admirably
suited the environment. Lord Somers is
running a boys’ camp this week at Anglesea,
were 80 lads drawn from various stratas
of society are associating happily.
Thanks to the generosity of F. G.
Connibere, of this city, the Bush Nursing
Association has an additional country hos-
pital under its ministration. The lucky
district is the hills township of Yarra Junc-
tion, whither Lord Somers journeyed re-
cently to open the well-equipped, building.
The B.N.A. provided the furnishings at a
cost of about £5OO, and a resident doctor
will be in charge. The Mitchell lady, who
is president of the 8.N.A., and Medical-
Knight James Barrett, the hon. sec., were
present at the opening ceremony.
The flowering gum is putting forth its
feathery blossoms, red, pink and yellow, a
glory to the public gardens and an ornament
to many of our tree-shaded roads. St. Kilda-
road towards the turn to the beach boasts
a few well-covered crimson bushes amid the
centre rockeries, but it is along the Memorial-
avenue from Sandringham to Black Rock
that the display is finest and the variety of
colors greatest.
The latest card club for women is the
Auction Bridge, organised by Mrs. E. Johns
at Iversdale Flats, St. Kilda.
Mrs. Johns, who is the widow of a one-
time Vic. Government Astronomer, has given
the game considerable study, and is much
sought after for instruction. While in
London lately she was a member of some of
the bridge clubs, and had lessons from several
of the Big Smoke’s leading authorities on
the game. The Auction Bridge Club will be
run according to oversea rules. Roses and
gladioli made an effective setting at an open-
ing party last Thursday, when the hostess
wore a French model of grey crepe de Chine.
“White Cargo” started on yet another
season at the King’s on Saturday night,
and, as Leon Gordon remarked at the fall of
the final curtain, there seems to be a gallop
left in the old horse still. May Collins
wears the pink and blue bits of batik drapery,
bead necklaces, anklets and bracelets of
Tondeleyo, and looks the part, though she
lacks the lure with which Helen Stransky
invested it. Ben Lewin made his first
appearance on the boards since his serious
motor accident of many months ago, which
has left him somewhat lame. In the audience
were Mr. and Mrs. Ivan Gutmann, her
green frock and permanent wave lending
distinction to the front row r.s. Near by
were the Beacham Kiddles. Mrs. Charles
Wenman, who had a party of guests in a
box, featured the new coiffure which reveals
the ears. The Mackey lady had Mrs. O’Con-
nor, a sister of Mrs. Henry Rosenthal, as
companion in the d.c.
The wedding of Sheila Margaret, younger
daughter of Dr. Henry Irwin, of Coolgardie
(W.A.), to Ivan, only son of the Charles
Taits, of East Melbourne, took place at
Christ Church, South Yarra. The bride, who
has been here with her mother for some time,
wore white ninon fashioned with a cape
effect. Pink and white leaves trailed round
her white hat, and she carried a sheaf of
pink roses. Her cousin, Joan Connelly, and
Gwen Tait bridesmaided in chiffon pat-
terned in hydrangea tones, with velvet
banded mole hats and armfuls of hydrangea,
all blending. Afterwards Dr. Mrs.
Irwin gave greeting to guests at the Kallara
Bridge Club.
For the next three months outgoing over-
sea liners will be crowded with Australians.
Amongst the intending travellers are the
H. F. Creswicks, of Toorak, who are taking
their young family to England for a year.
The faraway retrospective expression
caught here by a Lafayette camera helps to-
wards an un-
derstanding of
the subject of
the portrait.
He is William
Robert Oys-
ton, of this
city. A pian-
ist by profes-
sion and a
mechanical in-
ventor by pre-
dilection, h e
gazed into the
future as soon
as radio sets
became popu-
lar, and fore-
saw that un-
less something
was done
about it wire-
less would
oust the
g r a mophone.
Musically, the gramophone at its best is very
near perfection. Mechanically it is—or was
—at about the same stage of development as
the motor-cars of 1905. Every three or four
minutes it requires manual attention, so
that records may be changed, the motor re-
wound and needles replaced. Oyston s Elec-
tromatic Gramophone, for the English rights
of which £60,000 was paid recently, does the
whole job automatically. You arrange the
programme and the machine does the rest,
playing 18 two-sided records of any size
or make without stopping. Disc-turning and
changing and the renewal of needles are
done automatically, and all power required
is supplied by an electro-motor which draws
its current from the same plug as the radia-
tor and the toaster. This is a lazy world,
and there are rich rewards for those who can
make it lazier.
Marjorie, only daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
Tate Sutherland, of St. Kilda-road, is to
wed Eric, son of the Reginald Purbricks,
also of this city. The marriage will take
place in London in March. The prospective
bridegroom, who is studying law abroad, had
a thrilling experience last year when ski-ing
in Switzerland with Miss Sutherland and
Desiree Brook, who were holidaying there
also. • Missing his step, he dropped into a
crevasse, and his fair companions gathered
up a rescuing party. The new fiancde re-
ceived congratulations and farewells at the
same time, for the announcement was made
on the eve of her departure by a London-
bound liner this week.
Ruth Westerton, daughter of the Charles
Westertons, has given her promise to Dr.
Hilton W. Chenhall, only son of the late
Dr. Chenhall, of Darling Point, Sydney.
The wedding will take place in June.
Spending the end of their honeymoon in
Melbourne are Dr. and Mrs. Reginald
Richards, who are on their way to Launces-
ton. where he has been appointed to a
Government job, associated with laboratory
work and serums. Dr. Richards, who is a
brother of Prof. Richards, of Brisbane Uni.,
held a somewhat similar job in Rockhamp-
ton, Bananaland. lie was one of those
called to inquire into the Bundaberg serum
tragedy. His wife, also from the cRy of
sin, sweat and sorrow, was Lexa Kenna,
a sister of Francis Kenna, and herself a
writer, too.
Here you have a Vandyck camera impres-
sion of Mrs. A. Rapke, for the last two
years lion. sec.
of the Vic-
torian Women
Citizens’ move-
ment, an office
she fills most
efficiently. Her
report on the
work of the
pust year was
a most busi-
ness-like docu-
me n t whicli
well deserved
the praise be-
stowed upon
it by members.
It is only
within the last
few years that
she has taken
a part in
social welfare
work, the care
of her home
and family previously occupying all her time.
She is a vice-president of the Social Science
Students’ Society and a delegate to the
National Council of Women, and she was
lion. sec. for some considerable time of the
Maternity Patients’ Convalescent Home.
Mrs. Rapke is by birth a Maorilander, and
is an ex-student of Wellington Girls’ High
School.
Mrs. C. H. Richardson, of North Fitzroy,
has been appointed president of the Fitzroy
Children’s Court, and is the first woman
magistrate to occupy the chair. Twenty-five
years ago she was one of the founders of
the North Fitzroy branch of the A.L.P., and
has in turn occupied all offices. At pre-
sent she is secretary. Mrs. Richardson was
appointed a J.P. by the Hogan Government,
and later was made a special magistrate of
the Children’s Court. In war time she and
her husband were active Red Cross sup-
porters, and she is a notable worker for
charitable causes.
If the grave of Justice Higgins becomes
the Mecca of industrialists, they will have
to journey 46 miles out of Melbourne to
Dromana, on the shores of Port Phillip. The
cemetery is a little bush affair on the top
of a sandhill and surrounded by stunted
gums and tea-tree. Near by the late Judge
made one of the finest gardens in Victoria.
Lieutenant Geoffery Miller, now attached
to the 11th Hussars, is coming to spend his
furlough with his grandmamma, Mrs. Albert
Miller, and other of his many relatives
settled here. He will probably pass his
parents, the Clive Millers, on the ocean, as
they have decided to return to their London
home early next month. Socially, we haven’t
seen much of them. Returning after a long
absence, visits to old friends at their station
homes have taken up the greater part of
their six months’ stay in Victoria.
Mrs. Arthur Maxwell intends to come this
way in May. This will be her first visit
since she married and settled in the Malay
States. With her two little daughters she
is going to Hobart to stay with her hus-
band’s family.
Mr. and Mrs. Evan Rees are due back
this week after a six months’ oversea tour.
Mrs. Rees, who is secretary of the C.T.U.,
was a delegate to the Union’s congress in
Switzerland last year.
Archie Menzies, son of Mrs. Norman Men-
zies—Dorothy Vane in her stage days—is
making a name for himself as a playwright
The young man has been fortunate in plac-
ing two efforts—“ That Charming Cad,” a
satirical comedy of the Lonsdale school, and
“A Matter of Habit,” modelled on French
lines— w ith a theatrical firm in Germany.
“The Audacious Mrs. Swanson,” a comedy,
and a comic opera based on the life of Czar
Peter 111. are his latest achievements. During
his short stay here he is seeking likely
material for production.
G. L. Wood, who is senior lecturer in
Commerce at the Uni., is a beneficiary of the
Rockefeller Foundation. With his wife and
their daughters he set out by the Narkunda
to spend a year in trade research. Mr.
Wood, who came here from South Australia,
is author of a volume on Tasmania, and was
one of the compilers of “The Peopling of
Australia.”
H. I. Cohen, Minister of Education, swam
with and sang for the schoolmasters and
ma’ams at the Queenscliff summer school.
So if motorists passing bush school-houses
hear the strains of “Bonnie Doon” or “Loch
Lomond” during the community-singing half-
hour. they will recognise it as a favorite
number with the political head. Naturally
Cohen, as an old Scotch College boy, has a
Caledonian leaning in ditties. He was pre-
sident of the college Old Boys for a term
or two.
Mrs. Sinclair Wadham. a Sydney visitor,
after sampling this city’s holiday attractions,
has gone to spend the summer in Maoriland,
touring both islands.
Captain and Mrs. H. D. T. Morris boarded
the Narkunda for Colombo cm route for
Quetta, where he will join his regiment, the
Welsh Fusiliers. His wife was Dr. Elvie
Carnegie, of this city.
Word has come that Dr. and Mrs. Walker
Sinclair have arrived at Nice, which appeals
to them so much that they intend staying
on until spring.
Black-and-white artist Dick Wcnban is
packing his gear preparatory to sailing off
to try liis luck in London town. If success
attends his venture, the girl of his heart
will follow him, and the pair will commence
their married life over there.
Marion Montgomery hurriedly put her
frills and fal-de-lals into a suitcase the
other day, and is now on her way Eng-
land to join her sister, Mrs. Lort Smith,
who, with her husband, went ahead for a
Continental tour.
Mrs. T. a’Beckett. is holiday-making in
the Apple Isle at present. The lady, who
is well known for her interest in the free
kindergartens and other welfare work, has
had some limelight reflected from another
source lately—the Test-match exploits of
her son Ted.
The Percy Buckleys are receiving con-
gratulations on the engagement of their only
daughter Rosemary to Lieutenant It. St.
V. Sherbrooke, whose dad, a retired naval
captain, lives at Oxton, Nottingham. The
Buckleys, though frequent visitors to their
own land, have made a home in London.
One day last week Sister Eleanor Hogan
doffed her nursing uniform for a wedding
dress and hied her to St. Joseph’s, Malvern,
where James Ryan, of Tabilk, awaited.
Clouds of tulle fell over the bride s shim-
mering white satin gown, and two maids
attended in petal pink frocks and shady
hats. There were after-rejoicings at
Chastleton.
The Lauchlan Mackinnons, who have been
touring G.B. and the Continent for about a
twelve-month, are due to return early in
February.
Harriet Bennet, who took the name part
in the Australian production of ' Rose
Marie,” has realised her dream of a musical
show of her own. She has secured the rights
of “Riverstream,” and will make her first
essay in management at ’Frisco. Reginald
Dandy, who has just terminated his engage-
ment with the Firm,. sails to America to
join his former associate’s company, which
will be composed entirely of English artists.
It is typical of the limitations of the
Australian aesthetic sense that, although a
St. Kilda resident has obtained an injunc-
tion restraining the proprietor of an open-
air theatre from supplying what is alleged
to be music at his evening performances,
nobody has even suggested that a certain
moving-picture proprietary should be pro-
hibited from erecting in the heart of Mel-
bourne an architectural monstrosity which
is destined to assault the eyeballs of the
sensitive for generations to come.
Australian singer and pianist George
Brooke and Teddy Cahill are lucky in their
friends. For their final recital of the season
in London Lady Stradbroke lent her home
and later entertained at supper. In the audi-
ence were the Princesses Helena Victoria and
Marie Louise, and they were so delighted
with the performance of the two Australians
that they, asked them to sing and play pri-
vately at their house in Pall Mall. The
Stradbrokes are very delighted at their eldest
son’s (Lord Dunwieh’s) engagement. The girl
is Barbara Grosvenor, Lord Arthur Gros-
venor’s daughter, and London considers her
very attractive in every way.
Ada Crossley, good friend of all Australian
artists, was at the Brooke-Caliill concert m
the Stradbroke home. George Brooke writes,
“The years seem only to make her younger
and more charming.”
“A.G.M.’s” note from London: —
Dorothy Seacomfce, originally cast for principal boy
in the Lyceum pantomime of “Beauty and the Beast,
was later surprisingly announced for the “Beast” in
that production. Possibly it’s going to be an entirely
new sort of a beast; either that, or dainty Dorothy s
comedy gifts have outweighed her personal attrac-
tions.


m
St '
m;
m
m
L
W\ •••••"'
, >
am
ABOVE is Charles Farrell, famous Fox Star—
“ a very remarkable fellow ! ” He is here seen
precariously perched on a high bicycle in a
“ race ” with a Ford tractor ! Become “ a
remarkable fellow ” yourself, by following the
film-stars’ example and taking Cream of Yeast.
ON THE RIGHT is Nancy Carroll, a com-
parative newcomer to the ranks of famous Fox
players. Vv's predict great success for her with
that winning “ Cream of Yeast smile I ”
Famous Peopl
and a Famous Medicine
Cream of Yeast is a genuine way to better
Health—the remedy chosen by famous
people who dare not let headaches, “bad
nerves” and dull complexions take their toll.
Cream of Yeast is a produdt of chemical skill and
great resources; it is improbable that, for average
needs, a more beneficial medicinal tablet could be
made ; it is certain that this remedy gives satisfaction
to the public; it is a positive fad that it is safe.
Take Cream of Yeast when tired and depressed. Take
it for aches and pains, “ nervy spells,” sour stomach,
listlessness and dull complexion. Do not suppose
plain brewers’ yeast can give the same benefits. Re-
member: this remedy is a medicinal yeast-compound,
costing more to make than plain yeast tablets, yet
costing you no more. Your money back if the very first
bottle of Cream of YeaSl doesn’t do you a •world of good :
hat Famous Medical Men Say:
In an interview in one of the greatest newspapers in the
world, Dr. Victor Pauchet, a leading French Physician
Commander of the Legion of Honour, recipient of the
Croix de Guerre , recommends Yeast as a remedy foi
intestinal stagnation. He says : —“ Yeast ... is a food
rich in Vitamin B and increases vitality. It is thus a boon
to the health of humanity.”
In a London interview reported in another great news-
paper, Dr. Leonard Williams, Fellow of the Royal Society
of Medicine, educated in England, Scotland, France and
Germany, and well-known author of several books on'
Health, said : —“ I frequently see people who , though they
claim to be well, are nevertheless much below concert pitch.
They are not ill , but they ail. For sucn people I should recom-
mend less feasting and more yeasting ! Yeast is more than a
medicament —it rouses the system to full physiological efficiency
•)f assimilation.”
t:
m
PARIS, Inly M —Dr. Victor Pi
*»c c . _‘o w .
,/^OA’Oo
1 sAet. dliUOftwhed French Voi^‘ v * V L
i tfcloniilt'. annouDcu today tt>* / £>y
MB***—i ' >*srr)*:fr ° 'or;
• sir £S>j7 4 8
‘""I' /&•?£«£,><
*'■>,* 00
>ll ‘ ** 'or 1 )* /, , •«■. **»a-
- ?A^si£Ss
/ **c 0n r t *'" h’ bu t i** 3 °er?
.::*?■}&'
n*. ncm n>.'**'>« f
*" V “” ■' *—■ Kall’oSf V>'
oauoA II lrn*.u» lot. Vlltil'«aJ > -v*** IVfl
f«too«fli Yca*f«Bt **
è
AT THE LEFT George O’Brien, talented Fox Star,
casts an expert eye at the golf clubs. See him in
“ Speakeasy,” a night-life drama. Follow the film-stars’
example —Exercise and Cream of Yeast !
AT THE RIGHT we introduce you to Rex Bell, a real
Fox hero of the “ wild and woolly West.” Does he
take Cream of Yeast ? . . . Well, look at that smile !
Take Cream
Yeast yourself for
Thrilling Health!
Take it for Head-
aches, Indigestion,
Sleeplessness, Bad
Nerves, Poor Complexion. Any Chemist can
•upply you. 24 Tablets, 1/11, 48, 3/6,
125 for 5/9.
of Yeast
AT THE RIGHT is
pretty June Marlowe,
“ Universal” featured
player. She says Cream
of Yeast is wonderful
when feeling “ below
par ”
m
r
Thrilling Health l "
CREAM
YEAST
Wl
c*
S&3
If not near a Chemist, order Cream of Yeast by Post
from Amalgamated Laboratories, Kernbla Building, Sydney.
N.Z. Agents:-Ashford & Batten,
22 Victoria Street, Wellington.


Public Notices,
Wonderful Stock Figures.
The Pastoral Industry of Victoria and
Iliverina has always been a matter of vital
concern to this State, and towards its
growth and development men of ability and
enterprise in the Stock and Station Business
have contributed their full share.
There is perhaps no more remarkable
example of solid progress in this field of
endeavor than is revealed by the published
results of the activities of JOHN
McNAMARA & CO. PTY., LTD., at New-
market Sale Yards during recent years.
The City Council Official Records show
that the Company sold in 1921, 127,600 sheep
and 973 S cattle at Newmarket, while in
1928 the figures reached the enormous totals
of 783,774 sheep and 29.74 S cattle. The
achievement is the more remarkable, as it
represents the realisation of the Firm’s
announced determination at the beginning of
1928 to sell three-quarters of a million sheep
at Newmarket during the year. The sheep
figures, which constitute a world’s record for
one firm at one selling centre, are nearly
100 p.c., or 371,554 more than any other
firm for the year, While the cattle numbers
are 6584 above the next highest total.
Each year since 1921, when the present
Proprietors took over the McNamara Selling
Service, the stock figures have continued to
soar rapidly, and the Company found it
necessary in January, 1926, in order to cope
with the tremendous increase in business, to
move into the modern and beautifully-
equipped suite of offices which they now
occupy at Temple Court: since that date pro-
gress has been more rapid still.
The liberal financial assistance extended
to Farmers and Graziers throughout Vic-
toria and Riverina, by means of this Firm’s
Monthly Special Terms Store Sheep Sales at
Newmarket, during one of the most strin-
gent monetary periods in Australian history,
was everywhere recognised as a great boon
to the man on the land and a remarkable
achievement for the Company in such diffi-
cult circumstances.
I_JAVE you any old books or first editions?
. 1 If so communicate with WELDON
O’BRIEN, Box 27, Benalla, Victoria.
Information Wanted.
£~}F tlie whereabouts of JOHN PATRICK
and ELLEN LACY (or Lacey), natives
of Tralee, Co. Kerry, Ireland. Last heard
from about 34 years ago in Sydney, N.S.W.
Patrick had one son—John Lacy. Michael
had three daughters and one son, named
respectively Ellen, Catherine, Mary and
John. Any information will be thankfully
received by
JOHN SULLIVAN,
c/o D. F. O’CONNOR,
4512 Lowe Avenue,
Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
papers please copy.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
é
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cud.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
■limn*
%
ONARCH
Ciqai's
CRAIGfcAITKEN
Wholesale Distributors
Sydney N SW.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
The Age is a publication whose policy has
always been a consistent advocacy tor the
development of Australian Industries —both
primary and secondary.
If you desire to keep closely in touch with
the news of the day, read
“THE AGE.”
It is timely, practical, wholesome and help-
ful, and its columns contain all the latest
happenings in the world having a genuine
news value.
Price lid. per copy at all Newsagents and
Bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free with-
in the Commonwealth.
THE AGE FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes Over 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates obtainable at principal
advertising agencies throughout the Common-
wealth, or from —
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
V?
V
Thousands of men and
women have been
astonished with the un-
usual success of this new treat-
ment for such uric acid dis-
orders' as backache and rheu-
matism. Men who were losing
their strength, activity and
power—who were being
termed “old-timers”—h av e
“come back” with such fresh-
ness and vigor as to amaze
their friends*; women who were
fast losing their capability and
charm have found a new way to
health! Hundreds have
recorded their experiences of
this remedy, most of the letters
stating that successful results were promptly obtained
where every other form of treatment had failed.
STOP
Backache
and
Rheumatism
This Eas
svWay
0]
MADE
HIM A NEW MAN.
Dear Sirs, —Due to uric acid and
severe rheumatism, I was practically
dead at 77. In spite of the severity
of my trouble, Harrison’s Pills have
made a new man of me, and I feel
not a day older than fifty. I have
never known any remedy act in so
remarkably beneficial a manner.
(Signed) B. Jacobson, Blackman's
Point, N.S.W.
FIND THE CAUSE!
How useless to soothe a symptom and leave the cause
untouched! Yet thousands are doing that—taking old-fashioned
kidney pills and salts —things which merely treat symptoms!
But with the new remedy— Harrison’s Pills —all this is changed-
Harrison’s Pills have shown people they can easily get rid of
uric acid aches and pains, gaining such energy and freshness as
they have not known for years. By getting rid of the deadly
uric deposits—as well as uric acid itself—Harrison’s Pills give
HEALTH —real health— positively and without fail
s% 1 f\ will be P aid t 0 an y on e proving this is not a safe
dC iUU and effective remedy bearing a genuine London
Doctor’s signature.
YOU TAKE NO RISK WITH
HARRISON’S PILLS.
Either you throw off your ageing pains and weakness, gaining quick, un-
mistakable benefit, or the trial costs you nothing! Simply get a package
of Harrison’s Pills from the nearest chemist or store. Three sizes, at 2/-,
3/- and 5/-. Take as directed, and if not freed from your aches and pains—
if not more than pleased with the improvements in your health, strength and
general bearing—your money will be returned. This guarantee clearly
protects you in making a trial, but, if preferred, a. Free Sample will be
sen, on receipt of name and address, with stamp for postage.
Adc. : Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building , Sydney.
GET BACK YOUR YOUTH.
It is a demonstrated fact that of all the remedies offered
for uric acid and rheumatic disorders not one equals
Harrison’s Pills for giving quick, safe, sure relief and a
definite return to healthy activity. There is nothing like
this remedy for those who feel too old before their time....
Nothing like them for bringing back the elastic step of
youth! Harrison’s Pills bear the signature of a London
Physician, and are sold under a straightforward guarantee.
V*
TAKE
HARRISON’S
Backache and Bladder PILLS
For Backache, Rheumatism, Neuritis, Constipation, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Stiff, Swollen Joints, Urinary and Bladder Troubles.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
GRASP THE SHADOW ERE THE SUBSTANCE FADE
PIECE ME TOGETHER AND YOUR FORTUNE’S MADE.
TALE OF A LUCKY BLACK CAT — In Many Parts —Part One
9S
W 1
JAIG
KL
*3
IV OK
o
SI SI
£P 1
o
2:
n
&
W
>
The Nine Lives of a Cat in 23 Pieces
Behold me. King of the Luck Bringers! Mind
you, I’m not an ordinary Tom Cat that stays
out all night, so my scattered parts cannot be
attributed to the careful' aim of an annoyed
citizen resenting a courtship with Tabby on
the Tiles. Among my family inheritance is
a trick of being able to pull myself to pieces
at a moment’s notice, without disturbing my
genius for luck-bringing. Indeed, the person
who can put me together again has all the
luck. I have specially offered my services to
the N.S.W. Fire Brigades Art Union to test the
skill of the good people to whom I have
brought fortune and good luck for several
years.
There is money In this. In fact, there is a
fortune. All you have to do is to piece me
together so as to form a complete picture.
First send an application and enclose 5/
for a book of 6 tickets. This book
of tickets will be sent to you, together
with a leaflet containing my scattered parts,
looking just like the parts that appear in
this advertisement. You can sell or keep the
book of tickets, making a shilling on tbe
transaction. Or you can sell five and keep
one. The tickets are for the N.S.W. Fire
Brigades Art Union for £lO,OOO in prizes, the
first prize being a Solid Gold Helmet valued
at £3OOO, the largest prize for a shilling ever
offered in Australia. You may win this.
Now comes your next piece of good fortune.
There will be a special distribution of £5O in
prizes among those who send back the lucky
black cat pieced together correctly. The
amount will be distributed among those who
give the correct solution—First Prize £25.
Second Prize £lO, Third Prize £2, three
consolation prizes of £l, ten consolation
prizes of 10/, and 20 consolation prizes of
5/. It is yours for the glad hand.
Register your name at once. In addition, if you retain the 6th ticket, you may win
the £3OOO prize, or any of the others. For six tickets you may win prizes valued at
over £5OOO, including a casket of diamonds, a diamond tiara, and seven motor cars
The ciosine date for the Lucky Black Cat Competition is Saturday, March 30. 1929.
It is the easiest piece of luck I have ever offered, and I have been in the luck
business since Noah 1c: me and Tabitha out of the Ark.
Address all applications, with 5/ enclosed, to J. J. Neville. Hon. Secretary, Fire
Brigades Headquarters, 213 Castlereagh-.treet, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES FIRE BRIGADES’ ART UNION
FOR HOSPITALS, AMBULANCES, AND CHARITY,
(Sanctioned by the Attorney-General)
£lO,OOO in Prizes. The most stupendo’is Prize List ever drawn up. Tickets: One
Shilling.
Six Tickets. 5/; Twelve Tickets, 10/; Twenty-five Tickets, £l.
A Ticket a Day Keeps Misfortune Away!
Send at once. State whether Mr.. Mrs., or Miss. Enclosed stamped envelope
for result slip. Art Union Drawn on June 1. 1929.
J. J. NEVILLE. Hon. Secretary.
Fire Brigades Headnuarters, 213 Castlereagh-street. Svdney. N.S.W.
Buy your Leave Car
with fixed re-purchase Price
The beautifully illustrated and helpful Brochure
entitled “Seeing Englmd by Car” describes the
most comprehensive Car Service ever evolved —en-
abling you to have your own Car while in England
with re-purchase price fixed before you buy it-
W rite for free copy of
this brochure to-day
HENLYS
England’s Leading
Motor Ag ents,
Devonshire House,
Piccadilly, W. 1,
and 9 other branches
in Loudon and |
Manchester. J
✓
'V
MF
\
&
A Free Copy of "Seeing England by Car” will 1*
sent free on application from the offices of this
paper, 214 George Street North, Sydney.
Health
Vigour!
Bounding enthusiasm; clear eyes and skin:
Thrilling Energy and Sparkling Health ! What
brings these benefits? —Cream of Yeast! See.
when you take this modern tonic remedy, how
depression and lethargy go; how headaches and
skin troubles become things of the past; how
people exclaim: “My word, you do look well'
Try Cream of Yeast yourself. All chemists sell it
24 Tablets, 1/11; 48 Tablets, 3/6; 125 Tablets, 519-
Note the name —
CREAM
OF
YEAST


On aristocracy
STANDING alone on a
pinnacle of excellence,
owing much to inheritance,
English Bone China is the very
aristocracy of table ware. The
world looks to Staffordshire
for the china of gentlefolk. In
what connoisseurs call colour—
rather the very absence of
colour Shelley’s “ Dainty
White” cups, saucers, plates,-
which look white in a snow-
drift, are English Bone China
at its best.
Ask
TO sec THC LATEST
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morninc Sets
Dainty White
* China
Nursery Ware
Ay Lucie Attwell
o Hilda Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
ê
T.W. HIATH C. CO.LTD.
a3a.CLAO.BNCE IT.
ë
wm
ē
Public Notice.
■"THE TONGKAH HARBOR TIN
1 DREDGING CO., NO LIABILITY.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a
General Meeting of Shareholders •in the
above-named Company will be held at the
Office of the Company, A.M.P. Chambers,
Hobart, on FRIDAY, 25th January, 1929,
at 12 noon, for the purposes following,
namely:—
1. To receive the Directors’ Twenty-second
Annual Report and Balance Sheet, which
will be presented for adoption.
2. To elect Two Directors; Messrs. H. G.
Gray and Malcolm Kennedy retire, but
are eligible and offer themselves for re-
election.
3. To appoint Auditors.
4. To transact any other ordinary business
of the Company.
By order of the Directors,
H. J. WISE, Manager.
Hobart, 10th January, 1929.
Wanted.
YY/'ANTED, a mate to make trip through
” America for experience. Technical
graduate in engineering or mining preferred.
June, 1929. Reply “25,” this office.
Amusements.
SYDNEY'S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE VAGABOND KING.
ROYAL: THE GIRL FRIEND.
CRITERION: THE PATSY.
PALACE: THE FAMILY UPSTAIRS.
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
TH EATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
1 SHOWING NIGHTLY.
A NEW SHOW EVERY WEEK.
NELLIE BRAMLEY
COMPANY present
The highest class of play obtainable, at popular
prices.
The Royale Syncopators Chase Gloom
from Dull Intervals.
J c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
# MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
lIIS MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT SONG.
ROYAL:
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT,
MARGARET BANNERMAN in
VICTORY.
ATHENAEUM THEATRE,
** MELBOURNE.
Proprietor, Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee, E. J. Carroll.
EVENINGS, 8.15.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, 2.30.
E. .T. CARROLL’S NEW ENGLISH DRAMATIC CO.
in
THE WRECKER.
A Thrilling Railway Mystery Play
By ARNOLD RIDLEY, author of
THE GHOST TRAIN.
Sole Direction E. J. Carroll.
ING 'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LEON GORDON in
WHITE CARGO.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
14 MELBOURNE.
SYDNEY CHAPLIN in
SKIRTS.
ALSO
ESTELLE BRODY and OWEN NARES in
THIS MARRIAGE BUSINESS.
MEW COMEDY THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
PIGS.
Legal Notice,
IN THE/ESTATE OF WAFTER EUGENE
A LYONS, late of Hobart, in Tasmania,
Deceased, Intestate.
If FRANCIS CECIL LYONS (last heard
of in Charters Towers) and ERNEST
HENRY LYONS (last heard of in West
Australia), brothers of the above-named de-
ceased, or their next-of-kin will communi-
cate with VICTOR SAUL LYONS of No.
136 Bathurst Street, Hobart, they will hear
of something to their advantage.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB
ANNIVERSARY MEETING
SECOND DAY, SATURDAY, JANUARY 26, 1929
Special Trams Direct to the Racecourse.
FIRST RACE, 12.30 p.m.
6 Bligh Street,
Sydney.
C. W. CROPPER,
Secretary.
“THE WOMAN'S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price ------- 3d.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Sir John Goodwin has been to Pittsworth,
where he made complimentary remarks about
Queensland. He lived through a civic recep-
tion and banquet, and after the banquet atten-
ded a ball given by the War Memorial Com-
mittee. Mrs. Hodgson, in black and silver,
acted as hostess and introduced eight debs.;
they were presented to his Ex. by the Groom
lady, who wore black georgette with bands of
green, red and blue. Peggy Hodgson, one of
the buds, was in white satin with frills of
silk net; Greta Frood, white taffetas; Lily
liocke, white georgette; and Leta Linden-
berg, white eiApe de Chine with a beaded
bodice. Lorna Worley’s white georgette
was made over pink; Gladys Scotney’s white
charmeuse had little frills; the Zimmerle
maiden was in white crepe and silver: and
Miss Abernethy’s white georgette had frills
of pale pink net, caught with silver rosebuds.
Jessie Porter, winner of the Memorial
“Queen” competition, was presented to Sir
John in Nile-green beaded in pink, with silver
lace hem. Mrs. George Porter was in black;
Mrs. de Bracey’s black panne had touches
of pink; Dorothy Caton wore Alice-blue,
Mary Doyle rose-pink, Sylvia Keating
claret and gold, Nellie Cloake blue taffetas,
and Phyllis Holmes Honiton lace.
Jill and Jack Ryan gave a dance at the
Grand Hotel. • The decorations were in
scarlet and yellow and yellow blooms ; scarlet
caps and bon-bons were on the supper tables
in the lounge. Peggy Menzies, Sheila Molle,
Mary Luya and Drury Clarke were amongst
the dancers.
The mosquitoes about Brisbane must have
heard that our mosquito expert was busy
reporting on the Cornstalk stingers, for this
week-end the pests arrived in battalions, and
visitors to Tambourine Mountain, Redcliffe
and Woody Point scampered wildly back to
the city. Many sacrificed a week’s board,
paid in advance, rather than remain.
There have been weddings a-many in the
New Year. Jack Turner (his real name is
Geoffrey Hazelwood Turner, but he was
always known as Captain Jack when A.D.C.
to Sir Matthew Nathan) married pretty
Leila Baynes at St. John’s Cathedral, Lilian
Cannan ’maiding. The bridegroom’s mother,
Mrs. Leonard Turner, was one of Brisbane’s
prettiest women. She now lives at Oxford,
England.
Brisbane’s town hall, pivot of the biggest
municipality in Australia, is to cost a
round million, and doesn’t look worth the
money. No fault can be found with the
quality of material —the roof is copper-
sheathed, the exterior is stone-faced and the
inside is beautiful with native woods and
marble. The general shape, however, sug-
gests a magnificent conception blighted by
a second-thought. The front is fine, but
where a towering dome should be is a squat
pumpkin-shaped body that looks as though
someone had sat on it before it was dry.
Perhaps someone did, financially speaking.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
In honor of our centenary year Boy
Scouts representing all the States gathered
on the banks of the Murray for a corroboree.
A camp-fire concert drew visitors from places
as. distant as Harvey, and it was worth
going miles to see the big blaze of logs and
to listen to the boys’ singing. The wind-
up was at Claremont, where Deputy-
Governor McMillan and a crowd of spec-
tators witnessed a sports meeting and
pageant. At the cheery farewell tea in the
evening Scout Commissioner Donaldson
awmrded the totem for the best State to
South Aus.
The Swan was plentifully sprinkled with
white sails, ferry-boats and launches, and
Mounts Bay-road was a wriggly snake of
cars on the final day of the sailing-skiff
championship. The W.A. boat Verona won
the title, with Bananaland’s Victor 11. a
close second. In the evening the visitors
were given a farewell dinner.
The charm of ter native Ireland is retained
by Fay Taylour even under a fibre helmet,
leather uniform and steel-toed boots. She's
one of the
most daring
m o tor-cyclists
in the U.K.
and the only
woman to take
dirt-track rid-,
ing seriously.
Though she’s
an all - round
sport—she can
wield a tennis
racquet or
hockey stick
with anyone—
the course she
chose at col-
lege was do-
mestic science,
and she bagged
a scholarship
in it. Miss
Taylour, with
her two
mounts, a
Douglas and a Rudge, is spending a season
m Australia. She’s already a favorite in
Perth, where she’s done well on our Speed-
way. The Eastern States will see her at
the end of the month.
Frankie Trouchet and Ridgway Lowe
planned to have no lookers-on at their mutual
exchange of vows in St. Mary’s, but some
40 or 50 boy and girl friends discovered
the time chosen and came armed to the
teeth with confetti. The bride, who favors
the unusual in frocking, looked charming in
a three-tiered gown of beige georgette and
a straw hat to tone. Pink gladioli nestled
in the bridal sheaf. A luncheon for six sped
the couple on their motoring honeymoon.
There was rejoicing in the R. O. Laws’
home in Colin-street one evening recently,
when a lavishly decorated cake was cut
under a huge marquee on the lawn in honor
of daughter Muriel and her bridegroom, Mal-
colm Plaistowe. The long skirt of the wed-
ding garment was of frills of Brussels lace,
and the lovely veil, of the same material,
fell in a train cairied by small Mary Law.
Dot Male ’maided in handkerchief points of
delphinium-blue and a hat to tone, and Mar-
got Law and Janie Banning assisted in
similar frocks of almond-green. St. Mary's
was a bower of blue and white agapanthus
lilies and blue hydrangeas for the occasion.
High School has a new head, P. R. le
Couteur, who for the last 10 years has been
headmaster of Methodist Ladies’ College in
Melbourne. Mr. le Couteur i* Victorian-
born, and was that State’s Rhodes Scholar
for 1908. He distinguished himself at Oxford
and at Bonn in Germany. He’s a good all-
round sport and a first-class cricketer, and
knows W.A. well, as he spent five years here
in charge of the philosophy department of
our Uni.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The Longford race meeting was held in
dubious weather, but the attendance was
not seriously affected. Frocking was more
or less hidden under coats and wraps. A big
crowd went out from Launceston, and the
Midlands were well represented, with a fair
sprinkling from Hobart. Even in a dry
season the district about Longford is beauti-
ful, and the roads are a delight to motorists.
This earnest-looking young person, depicted
by Jos. Eccles,
is Arthur
Smithies, the
Speck’s Rhodes
Scholar for the
year. He was
born in 1907
and was edu-
cated at Hut-
chins, where,
after a fine
record both in
study and
sport, he won
a scholarship
for maths. He
hag just com-
pleted his
LL.B. course
at Tas. Uni.,
with brilliant
success. He is
a member of
the Uni. eight
and a keen
footballer. He expects to leave for Oxford in
August.
The Brighton race meeting is always popu-
lar, both with the sporting community and
the country folk who make a picnic of it,
and this year, though, the weather was
capricious, crowds of cars mustered from
all points.
St. Mary’s Cathedral was the scene of the
marriage of Sheila, third daughter of the
11. R. Hutchisons, with Raymond Bret-
tingham Moore. The bride’s dress of ivory
lace mounted over georgette was fairly long,
with severely plain bodice and long tightly-
fitting lace sleeves. The veil, also of lace,
fell from under a cap-like head-dress caught
at each side with orange blossoms, and a
sheaf of madonna lilies completed the pic-
ture. The only ’maid, sister Nancy, followed
in pink crepe satin and picture hat. and
carried a bouquet of blue delphiniums. Three
wee mites in attendance —the two little
Wolthagen girls, Naomi and Diana, nieces
of the bride, and Patricia Brettingham
Moore, niece of the bridegroom—wore, apple-
blossom pink organfjie frocks frilled very
fully and little frilled bonnets. The newly-
wedded pair are leading members of the
Ski-ing Club, which was well represented
at the after-rejoicings.
Rosalie, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Gollan,
Ulverstone, has given her promise to Dr.
Graham Cumpston, of Perth. The young
lady is herself a medical graduate.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
We’re still socially somnolent, but the com-
ing tennis championships have roused us to
the extent of opening a sleepy eyelid.
Daphne Akhurst and Marjory Cox, here to
uphold New South Wales, are staying with
Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Roberts at Glenelg.
The May Club has changed hands, and
there was a tea to speed the parting and
welcome the incoming manager. It was the
first women’s club here, founded by the
Misses Boothby over 20 years ago, and has
been a centre of innumerable feminine acti-
vities.
Home-coming South Australians include
the H. H. Duttons, the Cedric Haywards and
the Geoffrey Moreys. The Duttons leave
behind their younger son, Dick, who is at
University College,- Oxford. Which recalls
that the president of the Oxford Boat
Club is a South Australian —Hurtle Mor-
phett, son of the George Morphetts, of Cmfi--
mius, near Glenelg. His grand-uncle, also
Hurtle, has booked his passage for England,
and will get there in time to see the Oxford-
Cambridge boatrace.
Feminine members of the Cambrian
Society’s Choral Club have been farewelling
Irene Stancliffe, Australia’s representative at
Liverpool’s Eisteddfod in August.
Life at Victor Harbor still moves gaily—■
a round of surfing, picnics and dances, with
Senator Newland’s lady, Mrs. W. .A. Verco,
Mrs. Douglas and Mrs. Cudmore among the
hostesses. A church fete opened by the New-
land lady netted nearly £lOO.
The Governor opened the latest addition
to the Protestant Children’s Home at Mori-
alta, the old Baker home at Norton’s Sum-
mit. What is now wanted is a home for the
children of well-to-do people w 7 ho can’t or
won’t discipline their own offspring. Uenfant
terrible has been making such a nuisance
of himself at cricket matches that the Oval
authorities threaten to refuse the admission
of children on ladies’ tickets.


*1
si
B
W
i' v
al
1
■ u
I
m
n
h
h
u
• - i
m
mi
&/S
m
\?-
MM
gSS
Ep!
.fIEMK?
«
&S&?
r^ssk*
y
Mpi
hhnshs
g#
!. - >1
If
•y/ VN w:v
//
OT only in the great cities, but in the more
remote districts as well, the popularity of
Sharwood Shoes for Men and Women grows
ever greater and greater. The reason is obvious —
they are good to look at, because in cut and style they
express the last word of fashion, and they are good to
wear, materials being of the finest, and workmanship
being exceptionally thorough. For comfort and
fitting, too, they are unexcelled.
When next you need boots or shoes, ask for
Sharwood’s —wear them once and you 11 wear them
always. All better-class stores throughout Aus-
tralia will be pleased to submit the newest models
for your inspection.
Remember —the name is on every pair—be sure to
look for it! It is NOT a Sharwood unless it bears
this name!
ĕ
ė
FAULT LEX/ 1
FCCT>VEAR
m
-si
53k
(%f
**=
E-T
K .-_ ;
/// /A
C!
?«.
Vj
\L*
fell
wmwMm'*
Communicate with the Sharwood Service Bureau, Abbotsford,
Melbourne, if you have any difficulty in procuring both men a
and women's shoes.


7/ofe? InfernaUonal
ę
ě
BONDI
e
BEACH
Telegrams ;
Hotel International,
Bondi.
This Palatial Hotel
is now completed
and ready for
reception of guests.
Tariff:
From £4/4/- weekly
Hot Water in
Rooms.
Spacious Dining-rooms accommodating 250. Lounge-rooms. Palm Court.
Special Suites. Rooms De Luxe. Bathrooms. Writing Bureau. Telephones.
Roof Garden. Cabaret De Luxe. Plunge and Shower Baths.
IF YOU SUFFER FROM
ANAEMIA
then you have not used
mia
afZ&
****» d *
BECAUSE KARNA VITA DEFINITELY CONQUERS ANAEMIA.
Prescribed by foremost Doctors; used by all
leading Hospitals for all forms of anaemia.
Send to-day for free literature.
From all chemists, 8/- per 4 oz. jar (2-4 weeks’ supply), or
direct from tis at 8/9 post free if not obtainable locally.
KARNA VITA COMPANY, 226 a George Street, Sydney.
The'Loo.
BY-MARGARET FANE & HILARY LOFTING.
THE sun being behind the boy’s head, and
the boy being a little boy, a sudden
stillness fell on Marty. But in the twi-
light of the shop the boy revealed himself
as aii ordinary grinning boy. Ilis face was
very freckled, it was true, but the faces
of nearly all the 'Loo boys were freckled.
“Well, Son?” Marty said gently, subcon-
sciously aware of Mary at the other end of
the counter and her apathetic watching eyes.
“A liquorice chew,” the boy said.
From the corner of his eye Marty saw
Mary’s hand lift abruptly, as if to ward off
some blow, before she turned and went up the
two steps into the back room. The boy
waited in silent patience.
Presently part of the liquorice chew was
in his mouth, and he had gone. For a moment
Marty stared at the empty doorway before he
went back to his careful dusting of the cereal
boxe3.
Little Feller! Even now it was hard to
believe; even now, after the desolation of the
funeral, the weeks of bleak silence in the
house. Him and his liquorice chews, his
dirty hands. And his freckled face.
Watching the empty doorway Marty lifted
his duster and let it fall softly on the counter,
his one hand groping aimlessly in its folds.
That was the way of it, it seemed. Out there
the ’Loo went on, happy-go-lucky, God-send-
pay-day. His home for 50 years, it was the
only place he knew in the world, rich with
his youth, his troubles, all the good things
that had come his way, and all the bad. Rich
with Mary and this shop, with the long years
of odd-jobs and errands after the accident
that had cost him his arm, with all his hopes
and fears. Still going on out there, come-day-
go-day, lazy and plucky. But barren now.
As empty as that doorway.
You couldn’t trust it now, not the way
things had worked out. Life seemed to be
going right at last; you’d had your bad
spell, the time when a shadow would scare
you as you went about your bits of jobs,
and you got through it. And Mary came
along with her wholesome smile and that
chuckle she used to have and lifted it all off
your shoulders. You were a whole man
again, with nothing to be scared of and
nothing to be sorry for. You bogged in and
made a do of it, so that Mary shouldn’t
think she’d picked a dud. The business came
on—you keeping it all to rights and thinking
of nothing but Mary and it —until soon
you knew yourself that she hadn’t picked a
dud. And that made it all O.K. When old
Porky Lycett came nosing round to buy the
business you knew that it was as right as
it could be.
But that wasn’t everything. There was
Mary. , A good business, a business that
had doubled its turnover since you took on
the job of Mary’s husband, was one thing;
and Mary knitting or tatting in the back
room of an evening was another. She
laughed at you, and chuckled, and made
game of everything; laughed at you getting
up in the dark to make her early-morning
tea, at the way you fussed over her, at the
way you fussed over everything. But there
it was. And there she was, tatting or knit-
ting, seven evenings a week.
That was where Little Feller had come in.
Eighteen months old he was when Marty had
adopted him, near five years ago. And Little
Feller was dead. Gone. There’d never be
any more Little Feller for ever.
A larger shadow darkened the doorway,
and Marty’s weary eyes smiled faintly at
Mrs. Kavanagh. To his astonishment she
put three, pound-notes on the counter.
“Two-eighteen I make it, Marty,” she
said, “for ticks goin’ back six weeks in odd
bits every now and then.”
Marty’s manner couldn’t quite conceal his
surprise. Her baffled, too-old eyes flashed
a half-smile at him.
“Bit of a shock, is it? Well, yer never
know, Marty. ’E ’ad a win Sat’d’y—time ’e
did, too. Outsider. An’ brought ’ome every
bean. ’Alf o’ butter, please, Marty, an’
the change in mixed biscuits.”
Dazed, Marty brought the butter and
weighed out the biscuits.
“How’s the missus?” Mrs. Kavanagh
asked.
<( The faint smile vanished from his eyes.
Just the same.”
“No better?”
“No better.”
Mrs. Kavanagh picked up her parcel.
‘Lord, I can remember ’er, not three months
ago, laughin’ about the place, not ’alf ’er
age—full of life, as the sayin’ is.”
“There’s no life in her now.”
“No.” She stared out of the doorway into
the ’Loo for a moment. “Look, Marty,” she
said, turning to him, “the kids are all goin’ to
their aunty’s, Sunday. What about the four
of us, you and your missus an’ me an’ Denis,
goin’ on a bit of a jollo. To the beach or
somewhere.”
He shook his head. “No. Thank you for
thinking of us, Mrs. Kavanagh; but I
couldn’t get her to go.”
“Take ’cr out of ’erself for a bit,” she
persisted.
He shook his head again. “There’s nothing
’ll do that, I don’t believe. Thank you all
the same.”
Still Mrs. Kavanagh lingered. , “A nice
quiet day at the sen, an’ no kids to remind
’er, might do a lot, Marty.”
“There’s nothing that she wants to do.”
His low voice seemed to be speaking to the
shop’s empty twilight rather than to Mrs.
Kavanagh. “And I know what that means.
I’ve been there meself. She’s younger than
me, but she isn’t what you’d call young. And
you want to be young to stand up to it
right. It isn’t as if there was others to keep
you busy”.. .. Presently he remembered Mrs.
“‘You couldn’t have those marks on the wall and strangers living in the room,’ he
went on. ‘lt’s — it’s all on our hearts, as you might say.’”
Kavanagh’s presence and smiled at her
almost in the old way he had. “Thank yon
again. But I’m sure it can’t be done.”
Sometimes there seemed to be a menace
out there in the ’Loo, something that mocked
their silly trust in life. All that lazy laugh-
ing, that indifference; Mrs. Shelf going
quietly about, with her husband doing four
years in Bathurst Gaol; the man-hunt that
swept down Brazier-street that Thursday
night; the beating footfalls without a word
spoken, rushing past the windows; Bradley
knocking his wife about and she half-murder-
ing him; young Kelly doing his stretch every
now and again and dressed like a lord in
between, making eyes at all the girls. All
that. And nobody caring. There was a
terror under that, when you came to think of
it, if nobody cared. Why, half the customers
had had someone
belonging to them
behind the bars,
one way and an-
other. It wasn't
much wonder that
Mary closed up.
In the old days,
with Little Feller
kicking about the
shop and getting
into trouble half
his time, it had
been differ e n t.
Little Feller had made it all right. But
with him gone and Mary like a ghost, a
ghost that never smiled or cried or hardly
spoke, it had all suddenly gone wrong. And
the old ’Loo had joined in it, growling and
laughing out there as if it was glad of it.
Mary did nothing. One storm of tears, at
the funeral, a tempest of weeping that he
thought must surely kill her, and that was
the last of it. Nothing but silence and
a white-faced, dreary woman after that. By
degrees, as the weeks and months went
dragging on, she lost her grip of the busi-
ness ; only came into the shop when she had
to. only spoke when she had to, left all the
ordering to Marty, slipped out of everything.
She just sat in. the back room, her hands in
her lap and her eyes staring forlornly at
nothing.
Marty did his best. If that was what
she wanted, a quiet place and no one to
bother her, he’d see that she got it. He
carried on, did all the ordering, all the
serving, all the cleaning-up himself. He got a
lad for the deliveries, and put in all his
own time, early and late, at the shop, keep-
ing everything away from her. In the
, . , , ... , , „ ,
)e„inning lie referred things to her for her
approval, the business being hers; but she
said “Yes” to everything, her forlorn eyes
praying him not to trouble her with it. So
Marty took everything into his own hands
in the end. She was daily becoming more
and more a shadow; it was like having a
dead woman in the place where Little Feller
had been. Little Feller begging for his
favorite liquorice chews, rubbing his grubby
hands on Marty’s clean apron, sitting on the
doorstep talking to himself....
~,. . , , .
The end of his anxious endurance being
reached, Marty rang up old Porky Lycett
one afternoon ; after the shop was closed he
and Porky met and talked for half an hour.
Coming back, he stood for a moment in
silence looking at Mary. At last her dead
face looked up.
“Mary my dear,” he began gently, “a
friend of mine’ll give a good fair price for
the stock and the business, walk in, walk
cut.”
He waited. But her listless eyes only
watched him. He sighed and went on:
“It’s no use talking or thinking about
what the business has been to you and me.
We—we’ve suffered too much for that to
mean anything now. The only thing to do
is to get out, to give ourselves a chance. As
far away as we can from the ’Loo and the
shop and—and all the places we’ve known
and that can remind us.”
He waited again; but her white face only
looked at him.
“I was thinking—if we took my friend’s
offer and went on a trip, say, to Ireland,
to your own village in Kildare.” He glanced
hopefully at her. “There’s plenty of money,
and we could settle down there and start
again. You’d be among your own people,
and I’d be with you. And we—p'r'aps we
could forget.”
At last her lips opened. But “Just as yoq
like” was all that she said.
Marty turned away. Nothing could rouse
her; nothing could bring her to life. He
must do all the thinking, the planning, the
living for both of them. “Shall I fix it all
up. Mary my dear?” he asked.
“Yes,” she said.
Marty was sure he was right. If anything
in the world could do it, this would. With
a clear conscience he saw Porky again. Saw
the shipping agents and the passport office.
In the end. with his one hand he did all the
packing while Mary listlessly watched him.
He hardened his heart against all memories,
put no broken toys or picture-books in the
trunks; they were the trunks of an oldish,
childless couple going on a trip to Europe,
probably for good. He looked round the
place for tin; last time, his eyes as cold and
indifferent as Mary’s, and sent the boy up
;o Porky’s place with the keys. Through the
sullen mockery of the ’Loo the taxi slipped
down to the docks.
That was over, over for good
and all. From the deck he
could see the ’Loo stretching up
to Darlinghurst in the haze.
When the winch and the chains
were silent for a moment he
fancied lie could hear the cries,
the lazy laughter, the screech of
the trams. The trams that used
to frighten Little Feller in the
night, that time he had the
measles
The thought seemed to shut
down all the noises. lie was
standing on this deck in silence,
Mary sitting like a ghost by the
rail, and Little Feller’s terrified
face staring at him out of a
warm darkness. Watching the
little pleading face, he heard the
cries, the laughter, the scream-
ing trams come softly into be-
ing again. All the old ways, the
old terrors that he had suffered,
the inspiration of Mary’s love
for him, the shop and himself
cleaning it out on dark, early
mornings, offered themselves as
part of this thought. Never
again would the ’Loo tell him
its troubles ; never again would
Mrs. Kavanagh ask for another
week to pay. .. . Through the
warm darkness Little Feller
was watching him, his baby
eyes puzzled and unhappy....
For a space Marty looked back into the
watching eyes, the scream of the trams
sounding dimly in his ears.
Abruptly a fervent energy seized him. He
glanced at Mary’s white face and seemed
to hesitate, but continued to stride swiftly
along the deck. He slipped down the corn-
panionway, found the baggage master, ran
from him to their cabin, picking up a steward
on the way. To this steward he gave a
pound-note and some terse and forcible
directions. That done, he ran up the com-
panionway again and confronted the apa-
thetic Mary.
“Come on, Mary my dear,” he cried. “We
can do it if we’re quick and lively about it.”
“Do what?” she said, staring at this fer-
vent Marty.
But he laughed—laughed ! —and cried
“Come on!” again, seizing her bag.
Dazed and breathless, she found herself
in another taxi tearing through the ’Loo and
up to Darlinghurst, a silent Marty sitting
beside her with glowing eyes. At the door
of a small but prosperous-looking house the
taxi stopped and Marty got out and ran up
the steps. In five minutes he was back in
the taxi beside the bewildered Mary, and the
taxi turned and sped down into the ’Loo
again. It stopped at the door of the closed
and shuttered shop. Presently she was sit-
ting in her chair in the back room, her
stilled, half-terrified eyes watching Marty.
She saw the fervent energy slip from him
and the old look come over his face. He
too became suddenly stilled.
(Continued on page 53.)


xi vs iinax
S.ON3
'At ’<? 'Kf ‘fauplc ‘VC 93x091) rrr
“pn ‘ °D <9 3 WI!X d Pl°**>H H S W3 3 Hd
•S(JtUVJS Ut P£ Jioj 99xJ JSo4 3/tVtj SJtqvtf
pup SX9UUPUX Moq tCpM 9/itJDPXfJP pUP SuiStlUlP UP Ut
S/ttoiys ij 'IZ6I °i 8981 mox J q3t>2 -ioj auo —suoppxjs
-njjt Bjqpjtuitut sppunfi Jo /Cfxts qooq p ojut p9jo9jjoo
3A.pq ‘'pij oug -J -f ‘39]tqnf puotuptQ xptf] ajpxqapo 0£
nuajsAs 3|oijM aqj uodn jddjjd [EpyauDq sji
qaiA\ a 3|B§ jinj spug jo jqSnsjp Suiujoui 3qj
jo ODEjd aqj d>jbj übd Suiqjou ajßuiip siqj uj
•papojdxa U33q Suoj ssq noA joj pooS aq übd
S3JES JEJ3UIUI 3AUE§and JUESED|dun A|UO JBqi
eapi aqjL *ApußSß3|d os >jjom sji saop oug
/ •SuiA\Op-33JJ pUB JOOD
uiEDJjs-poojq 3qi sd33>| jj *3uiu oj puß Ajjnj
'pnp >jjoav oj suoijDunj Appoq aqj jo jußjaod
-uii jsouu aqj sjdtuojd oug ‘Suiujoui Ajsad
Suiijj jsjg „‘j|bs jiiuj,, s,ou 3 jo „i]SEp„ b
qjiA\ §ui|>|Xßds ‘J3JBAV jo ssbjS b jsn[ *Aqj|B3q
d335| oj si }i Djduiis Avoq puy ‘qqEDq jddj
'J3d qjIAV DUIOD A|UO übd ‘SuiAßjd jo 3ui>jjoa\
‘jUDUJOUI AJDAD JO JU3UIAofUD U3D}| £ JS3Z
qjiA\ >jsej AjiEp aqj oj pjßAvaoj >joo| noA oq
ciNaraa xsaa
vrnrn


3
il
X '•
UK
Ease
with
Elegance
SO
il
THE ELGIN fits your wrist so com-
fortably and naturally that you scarcely
know it is there. But the ELGIN is
not merely an adornment—it is the master
of exactness, the ever ready servant at your
service at all times.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
&lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
/hip ’frade Mark
è
é
FOR THAT UNEXPECTED VISITOR
CAPTAIN CRAB
SPECIALLY SELECTED
CLAW MEAT
FREE
.
COLOURED «ECl>« »OOK FROM YOUR GROCER
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
ê
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay .
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day-
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
Ih*
CAM
Britain’s
Motor
Masterpiece
In Mayfair and the Shires, across the plains of
India and the desert tracks of Iraq, in the sun-
shine of Australia, or on the African veldt
everywhere where cars are used you will find
the Sunbeam.
Not only in mechanical efficiency but also in
coachwork of fine appearance and luxurious
comfort, Sunbeam leads the way.
Its high road speed, ease of control, security
of braking and stability under all conditions
ensure a performance of exceptionally high
standard.
The coachwork combines unusual beauty of line
with roomy accommodation.
Sunbeam cars for the Australian market are
specially built with the necessary ground clear-
ance, springing and cooling to ensure perfect
performance on the roughest roads and tracks
and in the most tropical heat.
Complete catalogue will be sent on application
to our Australian agents, or direct to our Export
Department.
AUTHORISED DISTRIBUTORS.
THE ALL BRITISH MOTOR CO. PTY., LTD., 111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
MESSRS. WILLIAMS, HILL & CAMERON, LTD., 91-97 Flinders Street, Sydney.
MESSRS. ARTHUR BALES, LTD., 367-371 Murray Street, Perth.
RASCH MOTORS, LTD., 69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT:
12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, W.l, England.
Cables ;
“Subeamoco,” London.
Head Office and Works:
Wolverhampton, England,
Agents for Egypt: MIDDLE EAST MOTOR AGENCY, 3 Kon-Elo Dick, Alexandria.
C.T.P.66
“It’s no good, Mary my dear.” he said
gently. “We can never run away from Little
Feller.”
She stirred a little at the name he had
spared her all these months, but she didn’t
speak.
“It was walk in, walk out, and I bought
the business back just uow. My friend let
me off and gave me back the keys. So”
He ceased and stood silent before her for a
moment, the old look of quiet serenity more
evident in his face now. Finally he turned
and went to the door leading to the shop.
Rousing herself from the abyss of liar
amazement Mary stood up and followed him.
From the top of the two steps she saw him
opening wide the shop doors, saw the dusty
sunlight pouring eagerly into the twilight.
“That lets the ’Loo in again,” he said,
turning his head to smile at her. “The old
’Loo.” Some tenderness in his voice made
her look again at him and open her lips;
but she closed them without speaking.
The doors wide open and the dusty sun-
shine seeking out all the corners in its oath,
he went outside and slipped the shutters out
of their brackets. The shop was full of
light. Marty stood the shutters up behind
the small-goods cage, and came across the
shop to Mary.
“That lets all the ’Loo in,” he mid again,
“the ’Loo that needs us, that needs all it
can get, needs it so much.”
He came up the two steps, his face grave
and purposeful. His one hand took Mary’s
hand and “Now come with me, Mary, my
dear,” he said. He let go of her hand and
pointed to some marks on the blank space
of wall beside the fireplace—pencilled lines
with dates jotted beside them.
“That was when he was three,” lie said,
his voice full of pride, “and that was on
his fourth birthday, and that on his fifth.
And look how tall he was getting on his
sixth.”
Mary’s stony, haggard eyes looked at the
marks. He thought he heard her catch at
her breath, but he Avasn’t sure.
“You couldn’t have those marks on the
wall and strangers living in the room,” he
went on. “It’s —it’s all on our hearts, as
you might say.”
He pointed to a break in the corner of the
plaster. “Remember when he stumbled and
kicked that bit of the corner away as he
fell? That’s ours, too. We couldn’t be
wandering about the world and know that
that belonged to anyone else.”
Her hand seemed to flutter up towards his
as lie took it again and led her out to tin
little verandah beyond the kitchen.
“That gate”—he pointed to a small gate
at tlm top of the steps into the yard—“l
made it and put it there to keep him from
tumbling off the verandah. That gate’s
mine and yours—l’d be a useless old man
if I let a stranger have that gate. And
listen”
Marty stopped and held up his hand.
Faint cries, the screech of a tram, children’s
voices laughing in some near yard, the call
of a hawker—all the old sounds came softly
to their ears. “That’s the ’Loo. And for
us the ’Loo is Little Feller. Here we’ve got
him still; but out there”
She put her hand on his arm and he
turned and saw that her eyes had filled. Sud-
denly they overflowed and she caught his
hand and held it to her face. He could feel
her tears on his fingers, could feel the deep
relief in her weeping. The first tears she
had shed since the funeral.... The storm
subsided to a faint sobbing, and presently
she lifted her face.
“0 Marty, Marty,” she whispered with
quivering lips, “it’s the wise, wise old man
ye are!”
A sharp knocking seemed to sound from
the shop. “What’ll that be?” she said,
wiping her eyes.
Marty knew the sound well. It was made
with a coin, generally a penny, on his
counter-top. “It’s a customer, Mary my
dear,” he said mildly, as he turned to go
through to the shop.
At the head of the back-room steps he
paused, a sudden stillness descending on him.
It was the little freckled boy, the boy who
always bought liquorice chews. A fugitive
panic touched him and he half turned to
hide the boy from Mary.
But she pushed him gently aside and
walked down into the shop, her head up and
a fine wholesome smile on her face. “Well,
sonny,” she said to the boy, “is it a liquorice
chew again?”
A Tragedy of Glow-worms.
A lull upon the midnight rang,
A chill wind passed along the hill.
I know not what the song it sang,
But o’er the dark it seemed to spill
A subtle scent of worms and mould
And marble damps far underground.
Its voice was very thin and old,
And all things trembled at the sound.
I fancy that the ghost was young;
I know his mouth was full of teeth
As on the gate he sat and swung
His grave-clothes and the bones beneath.
“Good night,” he said with friendly grin ;
“Good night,” I answered with reserve.
I thought of many an ancient sin
And punishments I might deserve.
But he was no avenging sprite.
“Don’t worry,” that was his remark.
“I merely ventured out to-night
To get a little breath of dark.
Down there” —he moved a bony thumb —-
“The glow-worms keep it bright as day;
And as the things are deaf and dumb
It’s useless sending them away.”
I sympathised, tie grinned again:
“No doubt you fancy that is strange,
But if you knew how I was slain
Perhaps your views of things would
change.”
He settled down upon the rail.
“I’m glad,” he said, “that we have met.
Before I start to tell my tale
Please offer me a cigarette.”
I gave him one and struck a light.
He placed it in his lipless jaw ;
And through his eyes in spirals white
The rising streams of smoke I saw.
“That’s better.” Then he raised his hand.
“The girl was sweet,” he softly said;
“I found her on the Bondi sand ;
Our days of love we’ll take as read.”
I liked his telling of the tale;
He had a fine news-sense, this ghost.
The cigarette had made him pale;
He leaned a bone against the post.
“We loved. We went in countless ways.
We dreamt a thousand happy dreams.
We fed our souls on picture plays,
Diversified with frosted creams.
“But most we loved to wander far
By paths of green ’neath happy trees,
Returning when the evening star
Looked like a crumb of Cheddar cheese.
One quarrel had we, only one;
It lasted till the hour was late,
For Mabel sat till set of sun *
Chanting her maiden Hymn of Hate.
“The stars got up, the shadows fell
While I apologised and kissed;
But ere the breach was mended well
The homing track in gloom we missed.
The day was gone beyond repair,
The trees of all the world were near;
They stuck their leaves in Mabel’s hair
And poked their branches in her ear.
“The small scrubs like a milking goat
Seemed full of horns to tear and rend;
They butted at her petticoat
And clawed her ankles without end.
If fifty matches fill a box
I must have lighted thirty-eight
To prove that there were trees and rocks
And hidden dangers black as fate.
“Still we went on. Our love wore thin.
She cried salt tears in her despair ;
And every time I barked my shin
I poised my soul a Avhile to swear.
Then we went on and on and on;
The night wind crept around us chill;
When suddenly a bright light shone
Some way below us on the hill.
“ ‘Saved, we are saved!’ my Mabel cried.
We rushed to greet that happy glow. ...
And with a bump and wallop died!
Yes, fifty fatal feet below
We lay upon the cold, hard ground.
It was a worm that made that light;
And so in slumber deep and sound
We were compelled to pass the night.
“A poultry-farmer found the place
Next morning just at nine o’clock,
And when he saw my Mabel’s face
They tell me that he got a shock;
But I had simply smashed my spine—
That’s why I cannot walk too far—
Yet I could rest if worms that shine
Would cease to mimic lamp and star.”
He heaved a sigh. “My Mabel’s grave
Is over there beside the tree.
I fancy that I saw her wave
A lily bone just now to me.
I’ve talked too long. It must be late.
If I should keep her in the cold
She might repeat the Hymn of Hate
That I remember well of old.”
A cold wind passed along the hill.
He seemed to vanish as he came.
I felt a sort of numbing chill
To which I could not give a name.
His Mabel 1 Mabel once was mine!
She might have been my happy bride.
Oh, glow-worm lamps that falsely shine !
I pondered on insecticide.
Are glow-worms insects? Scarce I knew
The poison that they hated most.
Palo, phosphorescent, vivid blue,
They moved at night, a shining host; ■
But I would get them. Chemists know
And gardeners learn the mode to slay
All creeping things that softly go
To steal young cabbages away.
That night in dreams I seemed to see
A lovely girl who could not sleep
Deep in a grave beneath a tree
Because the flaming worms would creep
Her darkened chamber round and round.
I mourned “Sleep well, O Love, for years”;
Then solemnly I drenched her mound
With tins of kerosene —and tears.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Sunrise at Cairns.
This morning early, ere the town awoke,
I watched the clouds bank on the dusky
heights
Across the slatey bay. Like wreathed smoke
They rolled and puffed and battled.
Changing lights
From the veiled east in beaten silver shone
Against their gloom, and dropped pale beams
among
The drowsy waves, just waking out of sleep,
Edging their sombre grey: then, stronger
grown,
Ran up the hills, leaving the gullies deep
In sepia shadow mournful and alone,
While on the peaks a steady radiance grew,
Silvery sword-thrusts piercing through and
through.
So all the curtain of the clouds was rolled
With the menacing mantle of the night
And put away. Out of the sea in gold
Up rose the sun; shadows were turned to
light,
And doubt and gloom to laughter; grey to
blue,
Color and beauty painting earth anew.
A turquoise sky, an opal crinkling sea,
Emerald shores, and hilltops flaring bright;
Ruby and amber splashed on rock and tree
Tinting the sea-birds winging flight on
flight.
In all the world there is no fairer place
Than this dear North with sunshine on her
face.
QUEENSLAND.
BLACK BONNET.


e
cMore and more cvdustralians are appre- _
dating, the fact that here in our own -
country is distilled a whisky 0 finer than
any the world produces. Old Court sales
continue to increase—its mellowness, flavor
and age are winning all who try it. c Don’t he
led into the belief that whisky must be im-
ported to be good —let a trial convince you of
the matchless qualities of OLD COURT.
OhC Vofld£ Puresb


■ M
O
\ X
‘lts Quality Never Changes.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
è
Sold by weight or in
b-U). Cartons by at
Grocers and Store-
keepers.
[ggSSJ-
Made in Australia by
Kraft Walker Cheese
Co. Pty., Ltd., at
Riverside Aienue, Mel-
bourne, Victoria.
“Do I?” Cora said with languid insolence.
She stared at him from her propped pil-
lows, her eyes secretive and ugly. “Doesn’t
it strike you as curious that she never in-
vites me? I suppose I’m not good enough.”
Jasper shrugged hopelessly.
“I don’t know what you’re talking about.
You’re as free to see her, I suppose, as
anyone else.” . , TT
“But hardly as welcome, Cora said. Her
full lips grew rigid and heavy, and her
voice knew a sudden spite. “She gets along
more comfortably with married men, doesn’t
she?” ,
“That’s enough!” Jasper snapped. His
face had gone a little white. He was wrung
dry with disgust and anger. He found it
incredible that her malice could go so far.
“Cora, for God’s sake, think what you’re
saying. It’s impossible for us to continue
like this. Look here”—he sat on the side
of the bed, his eyes full of moody appeal—
“tell me what it is you want. What can I
do that I haven’t done to set things right
between us?”
“It’s easy for you to talk,” she said,
watching him sullenly. “I suppose I’m here
to listen.”
Jasper’s lip quivered. He said heavily
as he rose: “Go as far as you iike. I some-
times think either you’re mad or I am. It
doesn’t seem possible that we can both be
sane.”
He slept that night on the sofa in the
sitting-room. Then and always thereafter.
But he was not afraid now tlv.it he might
do her violence.
That phase had
passed leaving in
its stead only a
dull repugnance.
He was healthier,
saner altogether.
He gave his mind
almost wholly to
the problem of
material success.
He would start
suddenly from his
sleep to a wake-
fulness permeated
with an uneasy-
triumph; a sort of
premonition of ful-
filled ambitions,
yet having always
the same vague
emptiness at its
core. With the
daylight this
emptiness was
filled magically by
the wand of his
courage, which
gathered into one
compact whole of
seeming solidity
every illusion of
his hardening
thought.
The night alone
could claim the
subtle perplexities
which invariably
recalled Lois to
his mind. Jasper
would frown a
little at the dark-
ness then, as if
something eluded
him. But in a
little while he
would remember
only the lovely elfin face, the warm, black
eyes beneath the level brows, the smoke of
shadowing hair, the quick beautiful mouth.
And he would smile half painfully. ;
Jasper liked the people he met at Lois s.
They had their foibles and unconventionali-
ties, all the little absurd egotisms and man-
nerisms of the jobbers of art; but, upon the
whole, they revealed a kindliness and a
real sincerity. Their very thought was in-
formal, if occasionally bizarre. Life was
to them an immense, rainbow-liued bubble,
into which they thrust fingers of lively ex-
pectation, and were half-amused that it
resisted the most ardent proddmgs. They
were like children, Jasper often thought, m
their pretendings and their revelations ot
self. Their minds were continually clapping
hands and applauding.
Most of them had a more or less serious
interest in the business of existence which
made these abstract enthusiasms all the
more difficult to Jasper’s understanding. It
was, for example, bewildering to discover
an ordinarily staid, intensely stodgy and
respectable wholesale merchant in dyed
stuffs, such as Mr. Herbert Parasole, recit-
ing out loud, with every symptom of crea-
tive frenzy, a composition of his own
entitled “Thoughts on Sappho.” Or to over-
hear Miss Aquila Carmody confiding to
Lois that in a former existence she had been
somebody or other on the shores of the
/Egean Sea, Miss Carmody being then and
there, as Jasper very well knew, quite no-
body at all but a little old maid who rattled
a typewriter in a Government office from
nine to four-thirty each week day.
As Jasper became more at ease among
these new acquaintances he was able to per-
ceive that art was somehow related to most
of the isms and not a few of the osopjiies
and ologies. There was no mental excur-
sioning, it seemed, too fanciful or too re-
mote to escape the attention of these lively
imaginations. In spite of himself Jasper’s
interest grew. The conversation he encoun-
tered at Lois’s flat, or at Ronald Braid’s
studio entertainings, tapped his own imagi-
nation. He began to discover opinions and
to express them. He was delighted to find
that he was listened to with respect, con-
sidering that he was, relatively to the pre-
vailing interests, an outsider of the rankest
kind. To do him justice, he pretended no-
thing less, and this, he felt, was appreciated.
But he came to venture into the discussions
from the outsider’s viewpoint, and found a
stimulant in the contest of opinions.
The discussions, he noted, roamed gener-
ously throughout the enclycopiedia of pro-
“Jasper would sit,lor an hour or two, stupid with his trouble, dully grateful that Lois seemed not to expect him to talk."
babilities. They talked of everything under
the sun, and of a few things that were of
nearer kinship to the moon. There were,
on a full tally, some fifteen or sixteen of
these friendly disputants. In addition to
Mr. Parasole and Miss Carmody, there were
Mrs. Pole-Bugle and her daughters, Betty
and Jane; Harry Flackstyles, a young black-
and-white artist, just feeling his feet on
the ladder of the daily press; Bob Enderby,
who had published a first novel in London;
Jim Thor, an athletic grazier, whose devo-
tion to the weekly meetings was suspected
of matrimonial rather than literary intent :
Cari Ludowitz, middle-aged and suave;
Mfss Ophelia Jones, subscriber to society
columns; and Allenby North, artist by day
and musical critic by night. There were
also Ronald Braid and some others, whose
interest was frankly dictated by a thirst
for amusement.
Jasper became familiar in time with cer-
tain personal peculiarities and mannerisms
which at first occasioned him a slightly
nightmarish confusion. Mrs. Pole-Bugle
was an ardent disciple of hygiene, handi-
capped conversationally with a deafness
which she indignantly denied. Allenby
North delighted ip large ornate phrases, fine
sounding but of doubtful intelligence. Thor,
burly and sun-browned, had a habit of shout-
ing “My oath!” at unexpected moments.
Young Harry Flackstyles would decorate
the circumference of Lois’s table with a
design from the labels of beer bottles, of
which his pockets appeared to contain an
inexhaustible supply; and Miss Carmody
thought nothing of discovering a spirit form
presiding forensically at the feast of
material wit.
All these people, Jasper concluded, were
deserving of affection for their very in-
genuousness. They were finely uncommer-
cial and idealistic, under the veneer of their
make-believe. They were as innocent and
as honestly acceptable as children.
CHAPTER XX.
Jasper Makes a “IviLLiNa."
Jasper made his “killing” a month later.
The affair was so ridiculously simple in
contrivance that he was afterwards con-
cerned for quite a time lest it prove no
more than the flimsy triumph of a dream.
He was amazed at the luck of the thing.
He fell into conversation one day with
an acquaintance named Harbord in the
lobby of’ a hotel, where he was fuming
over an unkept appointment. Harbord was
not quite sober, a fact for which Jasper was
shortly to discover sufficient
excuse for a man of Harhord’s
unbalance. Harbord, crimson
with excitement, gave him owl-
ish greeting.
“ ’Lo, Leith. C’mon have
one with me. You know me
—smartest estate agent in
Melbourne, though I do say so
myself.”
Jasper freed his elbow from
the fumbling hand. “Sorry. I never drink
in working hours.”
Harbord swayed in genial dismissal of
this heresy. He fanned Jasper’s cheek with
a hot, mysterious whisper.
“Listen. You’re fren’ of mine. All frqn’s,
eh? Ver’ well. Mus’ drink success li’le
deal. Biggest deal I’ll ever pu11”....
“Look here!” Jasper said patiently.
He didn’t in the least want the man’s
maudlin confidences. He was more con-
cerned with the lobby clock. He was think-
ing with annoyance: “Confound Tegg!
Why doesn’t he come? I can’t wait here
all day.”
But Harbord was beyond discouragement.
He had lost, for an incautious moment,
both Jasper’s identity and his own. He
was obsessed with the need to confide to
someone, anyone, his extraordinary know-
ledge. His hands went out to Jasper’s
shoulders endearingly.
' “Leith, oF man, know what I know?
Crown and Rice ’re goin’ expand business.
Goin’ expand wbple bloomin’ concern. Just
gotter man put m lot more capital.”
Jasper pushed him gently into a chair,
where he settled like a sack of flour, with
straddling limbs and glazing, foolish eyes.
It was plain that he was unaware of where
he was or what he had said. He would
sober towards evening or the following
morning, with only a headache for memory.
Probably he would not retain even the re-
collection of having met Jasper.
Jasper did "'not immediately grasp the
significance of Harbord’s utterance. En-
lightenment came like a thief, stealing
through the tender fibres of his conscience.
Of a sudden the sweat pricked his scalp, and
his mouth went dry with excitement. If
Harbord spoke truly, he thought rapidly, a
small fortune was within the grasp of the
man who owned, or held an option on, the
premises adjoining Crown and Rice. Jasper
knew the firm. On the one side was a
theatre. No expansion in that direction.
At the rear was a right-of-way. The thing
to do was to secure an option on the re-
maining premises, a ramshackle survival of
early Melbourne.
It was the chance that Jasper had dreamed
of ever since coming to the city: the chance
to bring off a deal in real estate. He felt,
for his cheque-book as he walked rapidly
into the street. He was dizzy with fear
lest the owner was not to bo found or
would refuse business. He formulated a
plan as he went. He would represent him-
self as the agent of an overseas firm about
to establish a branch in Melbourne. He
wag empowered to purchase an option for
thirty day’s, while he communicated with
his principals. It was a likely story enough.
Two hours later Jasper was treading on
air with the option in his pocket. For a
week he scarcely slept. If his calculations
were wrong, h,e had practically ruined him-
self. But he had no regrets. Towards the
end of the second week he called upon Crown
and Rice. He went up the stairs feeling
like a man sud-
denly confronted
with the delivery
of a doctor’s ver-
dict of life or
death.
But, after all
the affair was com
paratively straight-
forward. There
was somei prelimi-
nary haggling, but
with the odds on
Jasper’s side. The
firm" 1 was by now
committed to the
new policy, and
the option was in-
dubitably in evi-
dence. In the end
Crown and Rice
capitulated, and
Jasper turned the
deal over with a
profit of just short
of £SOOO.
He left the city
that night consid-
erably later than
usual. In the re-
action his nerves
went a little to
pieces, and he sat
for hours in a
cafe, the food un-
touched on his plate. He was too
excited to eat. He was, in fact, several
times within an ace of actual physical
sickness. One of the waitresses, remark-
ing his paleness, suggested some brandy;
but Jasper smiled and shook his head. He
left half a crown under his plate for her,
and later grinned to find it was the last
coin in his pocket. In the train he took
out his bank passbook several times and
studied the figures in it. They ran up
and down the page.
“Good God—£sooo! I’ve done it at last.)”
When he reached home the shop was in
darkness. No light showed from the win-
dows of the living rooms at the rear. Jasper
was not surprised at this evidence of Cora’s
absence. For some- time past, he reflected a
little sadly as he let himself in at the
shqp door, they had taken their own
each without regard or even consideration
for the other. Cora no longer consulted
him as to her comings and goings. Except
(Continued on page 58.)


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3.360.965
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18,623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YAR\yOOD; H. It. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER: C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 62 BishopSgate, E.p.2.
The BANK is represented by l 86 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, w-ith Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 616,210
Ordinary Shares .. .. •• 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,525
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, F-iji, ’ Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS Side's:
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping.
BRISBANE,via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/6/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Looking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agen,cy, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne.
GUVATTS
SAFETY TRUSS
e
FOR
COMFORT
DURABILITY STRENGTH
WE stock and make to order, trusses
for all occupations. Light, comfort-
able, washable, and easily adjust-
able. showing considerable advantage over
all other makes. Single Truss as illustrated,
30/-; double 40/-.
Write or call for free Truss Pamphlet.
„ GUYATT & CO.
Dept. *»• 257 a George Street, Sydney.
XLbe Dominion.
New Zealand ’’a
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. HOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
Shipping, et*.
An Unexcelled Chain of Ports
PICTURESQUE Auckland, favorite sea-
port of Northern New Zealand; spark-
ling Suva , glowing like a jewel in its setting
of tropical beauty; far-famed Honolulu,
where travellers bask in an endless summer
and a thousand novel sights; such is the
route from Sydney to Vancouver of Can-
adian-Australasian Liners.
m -
SP
tri:-
Comfort at Sea
Broad white decks, comfort-
able lounges, well-equipped
cabins, and an ever-appetis-
ing menu combine to make
sea travel by the palatial
Niagara or Aorangi a de-
lightful holiday trip.
Particulars from
UNION STEAM SHIP
COMPANY,
247 George Street, Sydney.
39 William Street, Melbourne, Cl.
S.S. NIAGARA & AORANGI
STEAMSHIP PASSAGES
Arranged by All Steamship Lines.
Choice of Any Route. Without Extra Charge.
From AUSTRALIA to
ENGLAND
FRANCE
ITALY
GERMANY
AMERICA
CANADA
MEXICO
AFRICA
JAPAN
EGYPT
INDIA
CHINA
Also attractive tours to Honolulu, Java, Colombo, Fiji
BUSINESS TRIPS. PLEASURE CRUISES.
AUSTRALIA TO
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
VISIT JAVA (“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly sailings maintained by the popu-
lar steamers “MARELLA” and “MALA-
BAR” from Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane, via Queensland Ports. Torres
Strait, Darwin, etc.
For Reservations and Information apply
iC
S3S
__
x
5/^s
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. And all Branch Offices,
A
è
FOLLOW THIS SIGN FOR PROFITS
LEIPZIG SPRING FAIR (GERMANY),
With GREAT ENGINEERING AND BUILDING FAIRS, Commencing March 3, 1929
Profitable to the Business Man on account of the payable agencies offering.
Profitable to the Pleasure Seeker, as the beauty of Springtime in Germany, and
the wonderment of the Fair is a sight worth seeing. Advice and Letters of Intro-
duction courteously given entirely free.
Authorised Representative: LARS G. BRUNDAHL, 6 Dailey Street, Sydney. ’Phones: 84006, MW2201.
BANK OF
PAID-UP CAPITAL
ItESERVE FUND .. ..
RESERVE LIABILITY
NEW SOUTH
Established 1811.
A,
WALES.
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq. ; W. E. H. Southerden, Esq. General Manager: A. C. Davidson.
Head Office —George Street. Sydney London Office—29 Threadneedle Street. E C, 3
536 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on -Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Cuiwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
Sydney Agent*.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd
7 Bridge Street.
Mcllwraith,
McF.acharn, Ltd.
19 Bridge Street.
Melbourne S.S. Co.
Ltd., Clarence
6 Barrack Sts.
Howard Smith Ltd
58 Margaret St.
Mcllwraith,
McEaeharn, Ltd.,
19 Bridge Street.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith Ltd
58 Margaret St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRN t>
(Transhipping for outports).
é
GO NOW TO
HAWAII
HONOLULU
The Holiday land of the Pacific.
This Pacific Island Playland is youvs—but 13
days away—beautiful islands set in azure seas
—offering you the holiday of your life this
Summer.
Will you take it?
First-class fare for the round-trip from £75 —
Second-class, £55 —-cheap indeed for such a
trip. Hotel Expenses (run on the very best
First-class American lines) are as low as 12/-
to £3 per day, with meals.
Fullest particulars from all travel and steam-
ship company offices—or from this office direct.
HAWAII TOURIST BUREAU,
Dept. 26. Box 162788, G.P.O. Sydney.
COME TO
Hawaii —Honolulu
and have the holiday of your life.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
SRunic 12,500 tons, Jan. 25.
tEuripides . . 15,000 ~ Feb. 5
15 Nestor 15,000 „ Mar. 15.
$ Ceramic .. . 18,500 „ March 26
1 Demosthenes 11,500 „ April 16
’’’Ulysses. .. . 15,000 ~ May 13
Themistocles 11,500 „ June 11
’"First class only. t First and Third class.
:j:“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd.
Joint
Agents
Splendid Cheap Service
Via Suez Canal
FAST OIL BURNERS
Excellent Menu. Late Dinner.
Fares to London from £3B.
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For particulars apply
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Box 513 AA, 5 O’Conns’.l St., Sydney-
’Phone : 86701
Huddart ParkerL'Ji
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamslii|)3
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND— Regular sailing*
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers Between Mel
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDAIIT PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin take*
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.


Catarrh
Sufferers!
DO you know that immediate relief can be
obtained by the use of Rexona —The Rapid
Healer? It is just the Remedy for Catarrh,
and, used in the following manner, it acts in a
wonderful w T ay. Place a globule of Rexona*
Ointment on the finger and insert it wbll into
the nostrils; gently massage the outside of the
nose to enable the Rexona to penetrate as far up
as possible.
The healing essences of Rexona Ointment
strengthen the tissues, and the antiseptic properties
destroy the noxious germs which collect. The
head becomes clear, and the breath wholesome,
for Rexona dislodges the congealed and stubborn
mucous and completely cleanses the nostril
passages.
Use Rexona, the Rapid Healer, night and morn-
ing. You will be delighted with the results.
Sold only in triangular pots, at 1/6 and 3/-
R&x&na
Jfhe. Rap id
flealer
A
MEDICINE
CHEST
IN ITSELF
f/f A
/ f. Cooling
w Soothing
f Healing >
Antiseptic Ointment
t/6
3/-
Dijrihcs o Absolutely
»£ Heals Reliable
r A Reliable Healer for all Erupfions
dud Irritations of the ,5k in. Eczema. Sores Gils.
Bums Bruises. Sores. Sciatica. Piles. Stings of InsecJs.
and all kinds of lnflamrn*aiion
REXONA DEP T SHELDON DRUG C° L TO SVDNfy
THE TRIANGULAR BOX
ê
ë
IN CO-OPERATION WITH
WAGONS-UTS CO
The only Firm with permanent
offices all over the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, are able to give unbiassed
information dnd guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are ©n h?e fojr
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own atcommoda L tjon.
By booking through Gooks, whether
travelling firsts second or third class,
no extra charge is xnade, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other tmyefl
organisation.
ESCORTED TOURS TO EUROPE.
ALL CLASSES—-Ljpaving Febtruary, March,
April. We are txVe pioneers® of Escorted
Travel, and having crur own oSices through-
out Europe, are the only Tourist Firm
properly equipped to handle such business.
Sailing Lists 9 Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street,
ADELAIDE:
49 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building.
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY*
Martin Place#
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
•WELLINGTON;
Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
The Sunny Side of Suicide.
EDOUARD A. AUJARD’S GRAPHIC STORY OF AN EXPERIENCE
IN A SUBMARINE.
ALL the 35 members of the crew of
Submarine DTI had made their wills
at the last port. Some had been
scribbled on pieces of cigarette-paper, others
on the backs of photographs, a few on pieces
of brown paper, and one pencilled on a
matchbox possessed only three words beyond
the date and signatures, “All to Kate.”
And now the crew looked at each other.
Some were a little doubtful and wondered
whether the making of the wills had brought
a hoodoo on their craft.
Submarine DTI was thirty fathoms below
the surface of the sea. Half an hour ago
she had ceased to move. By all the laws of
submarines she should have started to rise
to the surface as soon as she stopped, for
the water ballast in the tanks always leaves
sufficient buoyancy to bring a sub. to the
surface.
But Submarine DTI did not move. The
depth indicator registered thirty fathoms, and
stopped there.
"Blow out the tanks,” came tin; crisp
order of Lieut.-Commander Edmund Roche.
The crew stared at the indicator. Some
of them dived into their pockets for a cigar-
ette, and then, remembering that they could
not smoke, withdrew their hands again.
Engine-room Artificer Joe began to potter
around the valves of the compressed-air cyl-
inders with a spanner. The oil-smeared elec-
tric lights revealed him as the slowest and
most deliberate man in the world. He had
a bald patch like a small white dome in the
middle of his crown, and it was smudged
with oil. His face was dark and long, and
it seemed to grow longer as he pondered over
the valves. 11 is attitude was expressed in
three movements, each slow, deliberate and
distinct. He would turn a valve one way
and then back again, after which he would
stand up and think over what he had done,
lie appeared to be making a problem in
higher maths, out of it.
The crew began to look at their watches
and sniff the oil-laden air.
“Can I give you a hand?” asked a big
stoker petty-officer.
“You?” Artificer Joe demanded in amaze-
ment.
“Yes, me,” retorted the stoker.
“No,” said .Toe. “It’s skilled work.” He
had been a fitter and turner before he joined
the R.A.N., and he was proud of the trade
that had made him a chief petty-officer.
“What’s the matter?” snapped the Com-
mander.
“Valves jambed, sir, and automatic drill
to repair them out of action.”
“Fix it.”
“Yes, sir.”
Joe began to rake around among some
spare gear. From time to time he would
look up at the watching crew with an inquir-
ing eye. The eye told them a lot. In
effect it said to them : “I’m the king of you
all. If it wasn’t for me you’d die like
rats in a trap. And what do I get?
Nothing.”
They had heard it all before. It was
merely an expression of the rivalry existing
between the engine-room and the upper deck
off all ships.
“I believe you’d keep us down here if
you didn’t have to stay yourself, you long-
faced human string,” fumed the bos’n.
“If we die, you’ll die first,” growled the
gunner, lifting a wheel-spanner. “One crack
ought to do.”
“I’ll report you for that,” stammered Joe,
excitedly raising his hammer.
“Listen to him,” said another.
“Oh, don’t stop him working,” sneered
the gunner. “He’s nearly all stop as it is.”
They moved away from Joe and the bos’n
produced a pack of cards. “How much?”
he asked, shuffling.
“Sixpenny rises.”
“Make it a bob.”
“Oh, all right. It doesn’t matter.”
“No. He’ll uever get us out o’ this.”
Joe glared round at them. The rasp of
his file was the dominant note fingering the
silence of the prison, with its gleaming pipes
and sweating steel plates peppered with
little beads of water glistening under the
electric light.
Young Midshipman Wicks strolled over to
the Lieut.-Commander. Wicks had been
reading a book since the trouble started. At
least he had pretended to be reading. In
reality he had been writing a letter to his
mother. He was 15, and had pink cheeks,
fair hair and blue eyes. His lips were
pressed tight, and his hands shook slightly.
He leoked rather fine, learning to steady his
lip.
There was a tremor in his voice as he said
to the Coifimauder, “I suppose we’ll go on
topsides soon, sir?”
“I think we’ll pull through all right,” re-
plied Roche jauntily.
“Thank you, sir. I was on the point of
writing a note.”
Perhaps Roche felt the significance of that
boyish questioning look, for he added in the
most casual way, “Oh yes, Wicks, she’s all
right.”
“Thank you, sir,” he said. “I’ll get back
to my book.”
The Commander told the engine-room arti-
ficer to “step on it.” Joe explained that
he had to fit a new spare rod to a drill. He
was hurrying as fast as he could. Engi-
neering was always slow.
Roche made an impotent gesture, and
started to walk up and down. The gunner
strolled along to gaze at the toiler.
“What a life fer a crust 6’ bread!”.mum-
bled Joe. He was still mumbling as he held
a micrometer up to the light.
Suddenly his voice ran down like a clock.
His mouth sagged open as he gazed at the
micrometer.
“Come an’ have a look at Joe!” cried the
gunner.
They left their cards and crept along and
wedged themselves in a circle to peep at
him. He didn’t take any notice of them
until the gunner observed, “He’s seeing
visions. Leave him alone.”
Joe turned on them slowly, like a long,
thin bear. “Seeing visionsV row’ll see ’em
directly.”
There was an ominous whimper in his
voice. Their heads craned a little closer.
“Look at that there spare rod,” said Joe.
Everyone looked at it. The gunner picked
it up, and the rest touched it to see if there
was anything special about it. *
“Seems all right,” grinned the gunner.
“To you it might,” sneered Joe. “But it’s
all wrong.”
"Wrong?”
“It's a thousandth part of an inch too
big.” replied Joe, and he poked his head out
at them as if he had got even with them
at last.
"A thousandth part, of an inch?” They
looked at each other.
“That’s what I said.” He described their
ignorance in blasphemous and crimson terms.
He was an engineer and knew what he was
talking about. The spare rod was too big
for the machine drill. If he couldn’t fix the
drill, that was the end of it. He sat down
in an attitude of complete dejection.
The bos’n peered at him and said, “I
believe he’s going to cry.”
The Commander reached through the circle
of faces and jerked him to his feet. Joe
saw two eyes glitter fiercely, and began to
stammer explanations'. He wanted some of
them to wear down the rod with emery paper.
He was too tired. He was done. He couldn’t
work any longer.
The Commander set them to the job. They
worked in shifts of two, rubbing with the
vigor of desperation until their oil-smeared
faces showed runnels of sweat.
Crouched up on a box. Midshipman Wicks
began surreptitiously to pencil a note to his
mother. All the color had drained out of his
checks.
From time to time Joe measured the rod
with his micrometer. And always it Was the
same: “Is that all you’ve got off? If you
value your lives you’d best shake a leg.”
One minute they didn’t care, the next
they wore wondering whether their names
would appear in the papers.
“Nobody’ll ever find her,” said one.
“Oh, shut up.” said another.
“Anyone’d think you were dead already,”
added a third.
As they toiled the rod changed from a
black piece of spare gear to a gleaming piece
of metal. After ages of toil Joe grunted
an acceptance. He fitted the rod into the
automatic drill and scorned further help.
“The rest is skilled work,” he said.
They watched him boring holes round one
of the valves. The drill whirled from hole
to hole. At the end of another hour he
reported all clear.
The Commander stood by the depth indi-
cator. Midshipman Wicks crept up and
gazed at the little white-faced dial too. The
big fist of the man gripped the hand of the
boy. “All jake, Wicks, old son,” he said 1 .
“Thank you t sir,” said Wicks, scarcely
above a whisper.
Joe swung one of the valves with a jerk
to blow the water out of the tanks.
Submarine DTI began to lurch over to
port. Shouts and yells rose as she reeled.
Men clung desperately to anything handy,
and those who were caught in the open were
spilt on the iron plates of their prison. At
the first lurch all the lights had gone out,
and now they cursed and blasphemed in the
darkness’. Joe was the butt of every bellow-
ing voice. He had tapped the tanks on one
side only, and as that side became buoyant
the sub. turned from an even keel.
“Joe, Joe, Joe!” they yelled.
“Oh, my arm!”
“Keep your boots off my head.”
“Joe, Joe, Joe! Get onter them valves.
Trim her, you cow, trim her!”
No answer came from Joe. Something
had started the electric drill. It swirled
about in the darkness, fiercely ominous, as if
it were seeking to destroy.
Then came a crunching noise from above.
“Over again !”
The crunching noise ceased and the sub.
leaped upwards, and found an even keel.
Acrid fumes bit into the lungs. Men began
to gasp and cough.
The lights came on again. The depth indi-
cator showed zero. Someone was toiling at
the iron clamps holding the door to the
conning tower. Midshipman Wicks was
staring at the indicator. His collar was
undone, and a handkerchief was stuffed in
his mouth.
The door swung open. A whiff of air,
fresh and sweet and cool, came from the
very face of the waters. Dawn was paling
the sky to grey—a glorious, wondrous dawn !
Every man climbed up to drink in the glory
and wonder of it all. The ashen waters
turned to pale pink, from pale orange to
lighter hues, as the sun threw its jewels
over the sea, and a faint breeze stirred the
mirror of the waters.
A startled cry arose on the port bow. A
lone native paddler had seen the strange
iron fish emerge from the depths, and was
racing for dear life to escape. He didn’t
know that he had seen the first submarine
to enter the Pacific.
The smell of bacon and eggs drifted up
from the galley. The crew began to laugh
and joke again. They forgot about Joe and
talked of four-poster beds and shore leave,
and girls. Some who still coughed from the
effects of the gag from the overturned bat-
teries talked of beer and rum. They ■won-
dered why the R.A.N. was a teetotal navy.
They recalled how various brands of beer
tasfed at different ports.
Midshipman Wicks was standing astern
tearing up the letter he had written to his
mother. He threw the pieces into the sea
and they drifted away. His eyes turned to
a bank of clouds in the eye of the wind, and
he began to arrange his collar and tie.
The Commander grinned approvingly- as
they met on the iron deck,. “And yrhat do you
think of it now?” he asked with a scarcely
concealed admiration, for the boy.
Midshipman Wicks’s hand went up in
that heat habitual salute as his eyes wan-
dered to the dark patch of cloud in the eye
of the wind. “I think we shall have rain,
sir,” he said.


%
c ou
'Al*
m*.
'o'im
a
on
GKM
f AT
P'«
r-4
Herbal Balm
m
xJ
K
(«
m
©n
on
<n
K 1
Ct is^ p LE S Sc ? L f>s C l! T
‘'As
m s
u»
%
?"»Gw
5 o«
m
Als s
m
P 'U
. *Ap
%■,
l tC
>.i2"
p to
w*/
c Os
l (0
CQi
°*Sa
s o p
o#r
S/ t(\
'r
m
'N
%
c ATION
%
m
e
QIRECTLY Zam-Buk is applied to a cut,
burn or other injury, all smarting pain
and irritation disappear. Ihe great relief
this treatment affords is due to the fact
that Zam-Buk is a refined balm of natural
herbal origin and not a compound of animal
fats and zinc, mercury and other coarse
drugs. Next, Zam-Buk
m
- •« I •’ .*::::: •• • •::: :•• • ; • •';::.
the tissues. Its germicidal and antiseptic
properties are to-day regarded as indispens-
able whenever a wound has had exposure
to germ infection.
Zam-Buk is the relentless foe of the
germs of festering, blood-poison, eczema,
etc. It “medically” cleanses the tissues,
drives out all pus and poison,
• ‘ *U:V. : : • • *::
{S'WiKm
m
with new, healthy skin. This tissue is
created cell by cell, so that soon all trace of
injury is removed. Whether it be a super-
ficial injury or a deep-seated skin disease,
Zam-Buk will give results superior to any
mere ointment,
Chemists and Stores everywhere sell Zam-Buk at 1/6 a boz
or 3/6 family size. Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap, 1/- a tablet
THE PERFECTLY BALANCED FIRST-AID
upon a Friday evening, when the shop re-
mained open until nine o’clock, there was
no tie, beyond personal inclination, to the
surroundings. Cora did as she pleased,
which was mostly to absent herself until
fairly late at night.
Jasper scarcely bothered now to imagine
where she went or what she did. To his
viewpoint it was far better that she should
seek some innocent distraction than that
she should remain to brood upon real or
fancied unhappiness. If he thought at all
ab'out her absences it was to suppose her on
a visit to the sick girl, Alice Tardy, or to
some one or other of their acquaintances.
He never questioned her, nor did she volun-
teer information in this regard. However
strained their relations there was, on Jas-
per’s part, no suggestion that she could
ever forget respect for herself or for him.
His mind here, at least, was always per-
fectly at ease.
He was far too exhilarated to attempt to
sleep. Dog-tired as his body was, his
brain was stupendously alert. lie stretched
himself upon the couch in the living-room,
and gave himself up to exultant visioning.
He.saw himself at last upon the high road
to the moneyed Mecca of his early ambi-
tions. Yet he gave thought to the more
human side of his achievement also. He
told himself rather pitifully that Cora could
no longer maintain her indifference, her
self-commiseration. He pictured the glad-
ness' with which she would hear his news.
After all, he told himself, stretching his
tiredness deliciously, there were all sorts
of requisites to human happiness. His own,
as he saw it, was immersion in the wofld
of work. Work was quite the finest gift in
life provided it was congenial and safe.
One’s chosen work never let one down. It
brought a fullness, a richness into exist-
ence; it was dependable and satisfying; it
never, as it were, answered back.
Love not excepted. Jasper was cynically
sure of this. He conceived that in certain
rare instances love could even approximate
to the stability of work; but the hazard
would remain while life remained. Work
was self-sufficient; love was almost invari-
ably a charge upon the bounty of circum-
stances. In Cora’s case her affections were
too obviously in need of the tonic of pros-
perity. Jasper found no resentment now in
the thought. He believed that this attitude
of Cora’s was impersonal, that it had no
grudge other than would have been evident
against any other man in his shoes and
as equally devoid of material success. It
was something to do with abstract prin-
ciples of selfishness which were inherent in
her. . Now that he was free to feed those
principles, her rancor Avon Id abate. At least
they might win to a mutual toleration,
making the burden of tfieir ill-assortment
less harsh.
Jasper’s thought was knowing a rare tran-
quillity. He closed his eyes against the glare
of the electric bulb, sighing his satisfaction.
He had, he discovered placidly, exactly the
same sweetly-savored sense of mental reple-
tion as he had experienced upon the day
when he had definitely decided to cut free
from Guruwa and Musk Ridge; the same
enormous relief which had accompanied the
knowledge of his remission from the bond-
age of frozen mud and gaunt, distempered
hillside, the ruck of ploughed brown earth,
the crowding trees, the scabrous sweat of
the creeping bracken. Particularly the
bracken.
He recollected, half-dozing, having seen
a-picnic party bundling itself from a coun-
try train as he returned home that evening.
One of the women had a big bundle of
fern in her arms immensely proud....
handling it ever so tenderly, as though it
were something infinitely beautiful and rare
. . . .damned bracken fern! Jasper’s eyelids
quivered. Even in town one couldn’t get
away from the poisonous muck, it would
seem. If the woman had known! And
people actually fetched it into their homes
loving the smooth, green evil of stem
and frond... .bracken!
Jasper contemplated the indecency dream-
ily. He came from a haze of thought pre-
sently to rouse himself with a start. He
look'ed at the clock on, the mantel, and
sat up abruptly, rubbing his eyes. He was
not quite certain that he had not slept.
How else, his mind demanded querulously
and a little alarmed, could the hour be so
late! The hands pointed after midnight.
And Cora was not j r et returned. At least. X
(To be continued.)
The Amethyst.
This gem that might have bought me five
, stout slaves
To Wear my bronze on ankle and on wrist
When Carthage was a glory and the mist
Lay heavy on the dream-lit northern waves
Is but a violet beauty. Scarce it braves
A silver setting, though the lamps have
kist
No stone of tenderer light. An amethyst—
The temperate sweetness kin to quiet graves.
Made common by the touch of many hands,
- The lovely tiling has lost its ancient place
•And grows unfit for palace and for crown.
Faintly I ask of time’s fast-running sands
How much of present richness and renown
'The future shall account a means of grace.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Sydney-town.
You have gold to burn, O Sydney-town.
You have topaz jewels, a glittering store,
On your blue-bound bays and your long
green shore,
And the yellow rocks and brown.
You have secret beauties men cannot find!
Ghostly lips that are never kist.
That gleam through an amethystine mist,
Or trail their crimsons against the wind.
Though you give so much there is much
withheld .
As you spin a thread for an artist s
theme,
Or you sow the seed of a poet s dream
Or match a tint for a rainbow’s weld.
For, Sydney-town, you are far too wise
With your changing skies and your fickle
sea
To cloud the cup with satiety.
La dame nans merei —who still denies.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Home-coming.
Trelawncy has come home again
The men he used to know
Have watched him passing from the train
With stately pace and slow r .
went away two mornings since.
None asked him how he fared,
But met him like some mighty prince,
with foreheads bardd.
They bared their heads, they bowed their
heads
To see him passing by,
Then went their ways uncomforted,
For he was young to die.
He used to run on blithesome feet;
Not thus he used to go
In stately progress through the street,
Majestical and slow.
The bells rang out to welcome him ;
For him the flags were flown ;
But many friendly eyes were dim
To see him pass alone.
He did not speak. He did not hear
The muffled sounds, but went
His silent way, with pall and bier
And wreathed flowers content.
VICTORIA.
ETHEL MARTYR.
A Wwstern Window.
.Why do I come? The day is sere and old.
Her beauty spent, her youth and rapture
o’er;
The purpling gullies’ breath is thin and cold
And glad birds flute no more.
Even this opal splendor breathes vague
dreads,
Droops like the folds of some imperial pall.
The trees, like tall, shamed women, hang
their heads.
Weeping, the dusk-dews fall.
Tall towers rise from out the golden haze,
Turreted and terrible and wan,
Fraught with the tragedies of other days,
And love and laughter gone.
You soaring trunks! You hoary boughs,
limned in
With silver pencilling against the sky!
Your talk is all of grandeur and of dreams
Peopling the days gone by!
Someone is calling! Surely pallid hands
Beckon from windows darkened long ago 1
- Like incense stealing from forgotten lands —
Across the dome the red clouds rise and go.
The red clouds rise and go. Soon, soon, the
night
Will fold the smallest thing in his soft
dark,
And the horizon be a giant crown,
Lit by a bush-fire’s spark.
O quiet embrasure on this sea of light!
Part of me steals at this still, burning
hour
To greet Romance upon the stairs of Night
When all of Heaven opens like a flower!
QUEENSLAND,
E. M. ENGLAND.
Yesterweek.
Ob, winsome was our faring
When yesterweek we strode
With packs upon our shoulders
Along a coastal road;
A leisured way w T e followed,
Not minding tide or time,
A pair of blithe sifn-lovers
Born in a radiant clime.
With feet that swung together
We mounted slope and height,
Green trees upon our left hand,
Green sens upon our right;
Songs singing, laughing, jesting
We covefed mile and mile,
A pair of happy fellows
Made free of care awhile.
To ns, as on we
Came nfitsic w’ild and brave.
Sea-voices strangely chanting
From beach and cleft and cave;
Rare beauty all around us —
Oh, light of heart were we,
A pair of strolling singers
Beside a singing sea.
By salt lagoons, breeze-rippled,
And stirred by sea-sent tides
By cliffs with massive faces,
And dunes with silken sides,
Day after day we wandered.
With town and toil behind,
A pair of roving fellows
Kissed by the roving wind.
Thus yesterweek together
¥pon a coastal road*
All else but joy forgotten,
With hearts in tune we strode
By leagues of tossing leafage
Arid ihiles of golden sand,
A pair of gay sun-lovers
Born in a sun-loved land.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


i
«225 j
sf
' .
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in utock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTO.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agent
N.Z. Olllee—93-107
Victorian Olllce—'
South Australian
.-HOLMISS * CHLKCH, Brisbane.
Featherston Street, Wellington,
“Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne
Agents: Messrs. EI.DEU, SMITH X CO., LTD., Adelaide. S.A
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue is eagerly read by men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictui’cs of
topical interest, with bright and chai >
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 228
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
The Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South Australia,
and is Read by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation in
Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny of Net Sales
invited.
ALL THE NEWS AND ALL THE
ADVERTISEMENTS.
In 1927 average size of “THE ADVERTISER,”
26 pages of 8 columns (each 24J inch deep).
Space occupied by advertisements averaged
16J pages daily, or a Total of
988,712 INCHES IN THE YEAR.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER’’ may be
obtained at all inter-State agances of
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch,- price lid.
Head Offices:
J. L. Bonython & Co.,
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative*:
WILSON, 22S Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone MA 3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
For Any Advertising Campaign in
Queensland Let Your First Choice Be
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
and its companion journal, “The Sunday Mail,”
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine.
‘The Daily Mail” is the big morning pflaper with a
greater nett circulation than any other .daily in the
State.
“The Sunday Mail” covers in one day the entire
metropolitan circulation of Brisbane’s four dailies.
For advertising rates and other particulurs, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,.
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE, Clyne House, 72 iPitt Street, Sydney.
Clifton Gardens
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, 7 Ltd.")
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR
Restful, quiet and cool—open to the Summer Sea Breezes. Del tehtfullj
tseach and Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort- *-Excellei
Spacious Grounds and Garage Aeeomn *odation.
Summer Tariff from 5 gui fleas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS—DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’ trip from City by Perry or
rese) Ovations
Hotel
HOTEL
■ situated with Private
at Cuisine and Service.
Motor.
: Y 45012 (4 lines).
Rouse your sluggish liver,
Relieve your stomach ills,
Revive your drooping spirits
By taking
è
é
TWO AT NIGHT
PUT YOU RIGHT
Whether yo«t*are an energetic optimist
or a languid’oessinrist depends upon
the stateof vcfcr liver. An occasional
dose of CojckJle’s Pills is sft splendid
liver; tonic, ensuiting healthy, regular
action with.'efficient cleansingvaway of
all surplus Jbile atad uric which
sour the dig;estk>nL. wreck the .nerves
and cause thjftt tired, depressed fueling.
Get a box to-day, ttake two Pin's to-
night and see how fit and sprightly
you feel in t#ne morning.
Small pill, ei isy to takfe.
■an/d stores Jf6
Of all chemtists
a box.
JAMES CACKLE & UK, LTD. LONDON#'
tyd light! Head tight!
timed tiq/tt!(M tight!
with time who taka
/faduffld
T.
U.V&
MW?
Vim
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
QUEENSLAND’S BIG DAILY PAPER
THE BRISBANE COURIER
Easily the best and biggest Daily Paper
published in Queensland and carries more
ADVERTISING
than any other Queensland paper year in
and year out - - “Courier” advertising
INCREASES SALES
Rate Cards and specimen
copies from
Robt. D. Fisher,
Sydney Representative,
74 Pitt Street.
’Phone 85007.
Published by the
Brisbane Newspaper Co.,
■“Courier” Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Also publishers of the
“Queenslander” and
"Sports Referee.*’
5?
&
$
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day of pv/blication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information; copies, advertising , rates of “The Examinerf* “Weekly Courierand
“Saturday Ever.fng Express” obtainable from;
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd., Mr., V. W. Margetts, Mr. W. G. Dougan,
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
122* Flinders Street,
Melbourne.
701 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
o
0°
<4*l
’ o<&
S®
c*v
e
6)
A> 11,
viO <S e
."' ....-
.•'* .-•'
<fi .«* .•' AO***
,4 ' ...-• .-;'^> V J
>• .


SURPASSING ALL PREVIOUS CHRYSLER
ACHIEVEMENTS IN THE LOW PRICED
FIELD
V
m
Plymouth Coupe.
c
RYSLER
mm.
a
aaiil
THE new Chrysler-
built Plymouth is
utterly unlike
any other automobile
at anywhere near its
low price and far
beyond anything that has gone
before in appearance, perform-
ance and value.
For the Plymouth, Chrysler engi-
neers have developed entirely new
and distinctive body lines. The
Plymouth is long, low, swagger in
appearance. It contains generous
seating accommodations. It is
luxuriously upholstered and finely
finished.
Chrysler’s justly-famed engineer-
ing skill has designed an engine
and chassis giving performance so
far superior that comparison is
futile.
Sixty miles and more an hour with
smoothness that is the very essence
of velvety action from the new
“ Silver - Dome ” high-compression
engine, with which you can use any
gasoline.
You ride the roughest roads at 25
and 30 miles an hour without the
least jar or discomfort.
The Plymouth is the only car at
or near its price equipped with
light action internal expanding
hydraulic four-wheel brakes with
moulded brake linings. Weather
cannot affect their efficiency.
All these things are given at such
an extremely low price that this
car must justly be considered the
most unusual value ever placed
upon the market.
See it and test it. We are sure
that in the Plymouth you will dis-
cover an entirely new kind of per-
formance, appearance and value
surpassing any ever previously
known in the low price field.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales Larke, Neave Sr Carter Ltd., Willia,m Street, Sydney
Victoria .. Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Collins Street, Melbourne
Queensland .. . * Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane
South Australia . Q. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide
West Australia William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth
Tasmania Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street Hobart
New Zealand ... Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington
New Guinea *,. v . W. R. Carpenter & Co. Ltd., Rabaul
