

. y.<
L?
V
V
m
»***»«**
4,
&
/'■'C
%
*
O
sor/i 1820 -
/St/77 going Strong
\Aft the tag —remove the capsu’e —<i«<i
r turn of the finger and thumb will
five you the one whisky which never
varies in quality Jrc m one generation
o another .
If
..j
A TWISTER
In the matter of whisky it’s the wise
man who knows his own mind. And
the great majority say "Johnnie
Walker, please” without doubt or
hesitation.
The foolish man tries first one
whisky, then another, betraying his
mental twist and his pathetic in-
decision.
But once acquire the Johnnie Walker
habit, and you won’t need to twist...
no corkscrew is needed. The stop-
per’s a "corker.”
JOHNNIE WALKER
WHISKY
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, LONDON and KILMARNOCK
The Bulletin
'Untold 1M {Qtdlbj jIcMjQA JM&wd JbrVuntjtdn.
Vol. 50.—N0. 2592.
Wednesday, October 16, 1929.
Price 6d.
Kegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


r ’THE 1929 LIBRARY CATALOGUE is
* now ready, and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, oil
application to
DYMOCIv’S IBOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE TIMES LITERARY SUPPLEMENT
posted weekly for one year, 17/4.
THE TIMES WEEKLY EDITION, weekly
25/- per annum.
Address Subscriptions to THE TIMES
(Australian Office),
255 a George Street, Sydney.
UmJj
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining ho\o td Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bui.lktix.
... ;'v.w v f.
My Name
My Address
SB
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
W
HW 3
.
THE FIRST NUMBER OF
VERSE,
A little journal for lovers of Poetry, edited by L.
Lavater, has just been published.
It will appear six times a year, and the subscription
is 3 IH per annum posted.
Postal notes, payable at Melbourne, should be sent
to the Hon. Treasurer, Mr. PERCIVAL BERLE,
70 Church Street, Hawthorn, Victoria, E 2.
Bulletin Prize Hovel
Competitors! Give your work its best
chance. Take expert opinion beforehand.
Consult A. G. STEPHENS, editor of
“Steele Rudd’s” first three successful books:
collaborator with Dorriugtou as novelist;
thanked by Ethel Turner for advice in
shaping a story: for many years critic of
fiction in The Rookfeleow, and occasional
“reader” for U'odder and Stoughton ( Syd-
ney) and T. Fisher Unwin (London), etc.
Fee for perusal and advice, full-length
novel, including plot, construction and
characters (but not re-writing). £8 3s. Refer
Evening News Year Book; Notable Aus-
tralians; Who’s Who (London).
Address: C/o Moore’s Book Shop, 00
King-street, Sydney.
STAMMERING AND STUTTERING
CAN BE CURED IN YOUR OWN HOME
Send TO-DAY for particulars of “Perfect Speech’’ and copies of letters from
those who have been cured. Philip O’Brven Hoare, M.8.1.M.5c. (London) (The
Stammerers’ Friend), Specialist in Public Speaking and the Cure of Stammering
and Stuttering.
ADDRESS:
56 BRISBANE ARCADE, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
P.O. Bex 1142 P.
WHAT CAUSES
BAD STOMACHP
Some say “acid,” but that’s only half an
answer, for “what causes the acid?” Many
things upset the stomach; acid merely results
from the upset. That’s why anti-acids fail.
That’s why Para-Pepsin gives lasting relief.
For Para-Pepsin not only stops the acid, bur
the cause of the acid. Hence quick relief
—real, sweet peace to your poor, angr.i
stomach! Para-Pepsin is a common-sense
remedy to doctors, but ordinary folk have a
childish faith in soda and bismuth-magnesia,
though anyone who compares results says
Para-Pepsin is much the best for upset
stomach. Its cost is small, too, and an.'
chemist can recommend it.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR."
PRICE 3<L
<!'trihiaim everything a woman need* t«
It doesn’t matter liow severely yon suffer
ageing aches, pains and consequent weak,
worn-out spells, a few doses of Harrison’s
Pills will make a wonderful improvement in
your health; and one bottle will convince
you there is nothing to equal them for renew-
ing healthy activity in men and women who
are beginning to feel their years. Hundreds
of genuine testimonials. One user writes:
“I got a bottle of Harrison’s Pills about a
month ago and it was marvellous the good
they did me.” —M.H., Mt. Perry.
Another says : “I would have tried Harrison’s
Pills long ago but had been disappointed with
so many other things. My sister gave me
some to try three weeks ago, and I must say
the pills are wonderful. I am now quite free
Backache?
Stiff Joints?
Blaeumatism?
Here’s Quick Relief!
from rheumatic pains which have bothered
me for years.”—M.T., Sydney.
Another writes: “My husband has had kid-
ney trouble for past 12 months; he has
tried other pills but got no relief and always
in pain. On Thursday last he bought a bottle
of Harrison’s Pills and he says they are
wonderful. Since Friday night his back has
been splendid—it has not pained at all. He
cannot make out why they have cured him so
quick.”—Mrs. E. ,T., Hurlstone Park.
Remember: If YOU want to feel years
younger quickly and safely without a Single
ache or pain—this is the signed remedy of
a • London doctor. Try it! Any chemist
can supply you. Satisfaction within 3 days,
or money back guaranteed!
Harrison’s
Backache
& Bladder
Pills
REMOVE THE CAUSE OF ACHES AND PAINS!
Of All Chemists and Stores. Trial Size 2/-, Medium Size 3/-, Economy Size, 5/-.
Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney, and all High-class Chemists.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
AFRAID OF FOOD.
Sufferers from indigestion very often become faddists as regards their food, and fiod
themselves in time reduced to a very meagre and unsatisfying diet. Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jtijubes correct acidity of the stomach, and their antiseptic properties prevenl
abnormal fermentation of the food, thus allowing the natural digestive ferments to act
and if taken regularly after meals they so
improve the digestion that a strict diet be-
comes unnecessary. Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes are most useful to those who suffer
from Heartburn, Flatulence and Dyspepsia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE—Tins 1/6.
Recommended by the Medical World, viz.
The Lancet, The Pkactitioneb, etc
17
griEs
MOSQ
S*±
umvrusM
ivj
r.of
The Red Page
Looking for a Dawn
The Rosy Fingers, by Colonel Arthur
Lynch (Palmer), is vigorously written,
attacks what it attacks relentlessly, praises
enthusiastically, sets itself the ambitious
job of “laying the foundations of a better
world” and preaches healthy sermons against
hypocrisy and cant.
The author, bom at Smythesdale (Vic-
toria), fought on the Boer side in the
South African disturbance, was member
for Galway in the House of Commons in
1901, has written a good deal on, psy-
chology, ethics and literature, topics upon
which he touches in the present book, and
has made friendships and acquaintances
among the world’s leading political, literary
and educational figures, upon whose opinions
he occasionally draws to help on his argu-
ment—e.g., Anatole France’s opinion of
Edward VII., that “there was no mind
there,” and of another who said of the same
monarch: “O what a man! During that
hour he spoke of nothing but a dinner
which his physician had forbidden him to
eat.” Of royalty Colonel Lynch is a
savage opponent. In a chapter sub-headed
“Spooks of Kings,” he says:—
Of the present king little need be said, for, since
his accession, the press bureau of which the office
is to “boost” royalty, has been systematised and
extended, and it is to that office that I ascribe the
tendency to render royalty “democratic” in a manner
that would have moved Queen Victoria to fury.
The “new avatar” which makes royalty not
only consistent with democracy, but the
chief stay and bulwark of that great prin-
ciple, he says, is a teaching that is being
sedulously spread through the Dominions,
and not without success, even “where the
natural spirit of the people should make
them less inclined to the absurdities of the
doctrine, as in Australia.”
His care is broadly for the civilised world,
but the special place he keeps in his heart
for Australia is often visible. It is, he
writes, on record that he w r as the first
member of the House of Commons to urge,
amidst general disapproval, that Australia
should be styled not a colony but a
dominion. The proposal, referred to the
official representatives of Australia in
London, was rejected; Asquith was also
among the scoffers. “All this,” says Colonel
Lynch,
seems miserable now, but it throws into relief that
on which I have to insist again and again—the atmo-
sphere of sycophancy, the spirit of tuft-hunting which
affects these little minds. They are always writing
on the sign-post to Australia: Second-rate English-
men, this way!
Of Australians he remarks:—
We are accused of being too “cocky” and pre-
sumptuous ; but often this appearance conceals great
modesty, for nothing else could account . for the
docility with which some of the best of us swallow
the dope that comes to us from the heights of this
country, and the contentment with which we mould
our thoughts, our opinions, our philosophy—wherever
the adumbration of this appears—-our art, our
literature, our judgment of the world, all upon the
standards which are handed down to us ultimately
from the pundits of the Universities. No. We are
not presumptuous, a “cocky” people, when we submit
so meekly to the teachings of these falsely inbred
and ex-sanguined minds.
“In all Australia,” he adds, “jealous as
are Australians of their reputation, there is
only one paper, The Bulletin, of Sydney,
which gives a distinctly Australian note,
and, which, for good or bad, encourages the
growth of an Australian language.”
That Australian language is dear to me, for it
carries in its utterance the splendid vistas of our
landscapes, the aroma of the bush, the indescribable
charm of that land where the blue sky in its tender,
ravishing beauty seems inspired to reign over free
men and to lure to wonderful destinies.
He refers to Gordon as our national poet,
but asks:—
Shall there be no poetry then, no afflatus to carry
us on, no new strain to make our pulses beat with
pride?.... Still too much imitation, still too much
dependance on the models. We must do better than
all that, and if this book carries its purpose, we
wi11.... There is a virility of mind that must not
be neglected, and at this point, partly due to the
teaching of the Universities, especially in those
domains of thought that are the glory of the human
mind, the product has failed to respond to what is
possible with the clearness, the zest and mordancy
of the Australian mind. We must see to that!
One of the most extraordinary facts about
Australians, he finds, is that, sensitive and
jealous as we are in all that concerns our
national pride, we are content to regard the
Australian as inferior in his own country.
That is a hit at Governors. He can hardly
remember the name of one of them who
amounted to anything in ability, in character, in
personality, even in the exuberance of aristocratic
vices; they were simply fantoches bobbing up and
down on the surface of Australian life, colorless
parasites on the nation.
That refers to past Governors, for whose
presence there was some excuse, since Aus-
tralia was ruled from Downing-street.
But now we boast that Australia is a nation;
that we are the equal of Englishmen! Who, then,
are still these fantoches who bob up and down on
the surface of our life, and to whom we render such
homage that no Australian can ever hope to equal
their greatness in his own country? Who are they?
Second-rate politicians, purchased off in Westminster
for their dubious support of the Cabinet, younger
sons, or even elder sons who have never won their
spurs, correct officials whose function it may be to
teach Australians the ABC of Court etiquette;
but all, even the most inconspicuous or the most
worthless, greater in Australia than the mere Aus-
tralian, who is proud to pay for his inferiority as
he carries these weird burdens on his shoulders.
It is a savage slating! He closes on a
hopeful note: —
I now turn in the end towards the beautiful,
sunny land of my birth to assure my fellow country-
men that everything here tends to the glory of
Australia, whose greater destiny I behold as in a
vision, and whose children of the new dawn I
salute.
A German Historian
With his latest book* July, 1914, Emil
Ludwig, known to the whole world as bio-
grapher and novelist, makes his bow as his-
torian, a bow which leaves the impression
that the historian excels the biographer and
novelist. Ten days after the book’s publi-
cation here the sales- had reached the
60,000 mark, and the translating rights had
been sold to more than ten countries.
In producing the history of the outbreak
of the Great War in a volume smaller,
more exciting and more readable than a
novel, Ludwig has done a service to both
truth and peace, a service which was badly
needed. For its objectivity, conciseness and
power to grip its reader, it should become
the popular history of the subject and the
future school textbook.
Its objectivity will find many enemies in
people in Germany who do not realise that,
in admitting Germany’s part-guilt for the
war, Ludwig proves the myth of her sole
guilt. He attacks the “War Guilt Ques-
tion” in the beginning of his preface :
The whole of Europe is to blame for the World
War; researches in all countries have proved this,
lloth the sole guilt and innocence of Germany are
fairy-tales for children on both sides of the Rhine.
....The total guilt was in the Cabinets, the
innocence in the streets of Europe. . . . Lies, that a
single people as such wanted the war then, or wantA
it to-day! The form of the modern war has made
the term “warlike nation” illusory; there are now
only the false leaders, who guard themselves, and
the misled, who fall.
He lays the whole blame for the war at
the feet of the Cabinets, diplomats, generals
and rulers of the countries concerned. Of
the first he says:—
In connection with the guilt, which cannot be
reckoned in percentages, Vienna and Petersburg are
the most heavily burdened, Berlin and Paris follow
them at very different distances as seconds, while
London comes at a much greater distance behind.
Of the English Cabinet he says:—
Of the five deciding Cabinets of Europe this one
had wanted the war the least, had opposed it the
longest, and yet did not prevent it, although it
was the one Cabinet which could still have pre-
vented it.
He gives an excellent picture, sometimes
amusing, of the chief members of the
English Cabinet.
Asquith, with his Dickensonian head and the
manner of an ancient Roman, looks at the world
with shrewd eyes.... forming sharply the calm, pas-
sionless thoughts which he accompanies by the in-
frequent gestures of the Englishman.... There is
Lord Haldane, more reflective, humanist, with the
head of an old cardinal by Tintoretto; of a
mysterious, silent character.
Ludwig has great sympathy with Grey and
likens him in his dilemma to Hamlet. He
says of him: —
Sir Edward Grey, who, as Foreign Secretary, had
held back not only England but the whole Continent
from vvar for eight years, was retiring, seldom seen
in society... .a friend of Birds, a man of patience
and caution, who would rather be in the woods at
the week-end, who had poems by Wordsworth on
his lips rather than political speeches.... Lloyd
George was the Celt in the Cabinet, which means
he was in part poet. Of all members of the Cabinet
he was the least man of the world, and the least
typically English Churchill, scion of the Duke
of Marlborough, half American by blood and a man
of the world. . . .was neither reflective as Grey nor
calm as Asquith; neither persistent as Haldane nor
a man of the people as Lloyd George.
Of all the diplomats and Ministers who
were responsible for the war, Ludwig places
most blame on Berchtold, Austro-Hungarian
Foreign Minister. He makes a damning
case against this man with the “clipped
moustache over the sensuously soft mouth.”
He accuses Count. Berchtold of welcoming
the assassination of the Archduke as a
means of increasing his own prestige; of
deceiving his own Emperor and of forging
and falsifying documents to bring about
the war. When he saw how things were
going, Ludwig says, “he who had begun the
game was in no way inclined to carry it
really through.” But already the spark
had been struck, the first casualty lists had
appeared, and Berlin forced his hand by an
ultimatum. Reluctantly he declared war.
The book has naturally a strong pacifist
tendency. It is dedicated “To the Sons
in Warning,” and of it Ludwig says: “This
book is the study of the stupidity of the
then powerful and of the right instincts of
the then powerless.” He shows how each
people was led to believe that it was the
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


depend on “Truth in Advertising” in all Anthony Horderns’ advertisements.
You can
A Riot of Ha
A
1
rXi"
•stVfi
sss
i'.+ii'v?
v3>v
'/Vv>
:
iteis
JkMmfe
nm
JAZZ undoubtedly has its enemies. . . but
solid in its favor is the youth of the day. Its
appeal is irresistible —someone puts on a Jazz
record and in a trice the carpet is rolled up,
mats are cleared away, and the deepest argu-
ments are forgotten in the fascination of
dancing!
But for lovers of serious music as well, the
Gramophone has a unique charm. You can
ring endless changes in your programmes —
Operas, Concertos, Solos by the world’s
greatest masters; humorous and even educa-
tional records have reached a perfection of
reproduction hitherto unsurpassed.
—and by Christmas EVERYONE can own a Gramophone!
Anthony Horderns’ “Deposit-Purchase” System makes this possible. Pay your deposit on a
gramophone now, and the balance at your own convenience, a little at a time if you prefer. On
the completion of the payments the Gramophone is forwarded to you in the usual way, and you
. have paid only the cost price.
£l2/10/
Three Attractive Portable Models
Model illustrated at left shows the “Uniphone”
Console Cabinet Phonograph. Fitted with double
spring, worm-driven motor. 12in. plush, nickel-
plated turntable. Four shelves for record storage.
Size, 36in. high, 38in. long. Price ...... £l2/10/-
Model illustrated at right shows the “LJniphone” No.
606 Cabinet Phonograph. In selected oak, nut brown
or mission. Size, 37in. high, 19iin. wide, deep.
Sound chamber extra strong reflex type. Double spring
motor. Price £9/17/6
m
1
c lHotLel
SIP 606
«£
Columbia Portable
“Junior.” The latest
Viva-Tonal graphonola,
which gives an exquis-
itely clear reproduction.
Light and handy for
carrying, easily adjusted
and quickly set up.
Price £5/10/-
sdf
“Kexoport” Model B. Cabinet,
sound chamber and record compart-
ment of wood. Excellent reproduc-
tion. Price £4/4/-
“His Master’s Voice”
Standard Portable.
Internal horn, ball-
bearing tone-arm and
No. 4 sound-box.
Cabinet, light of con-
struction, covered with
black waterproofed
cloth, well finished.
Price £9
BB
mifUZ
Many other models; also wide selection of Records, Player-piano Rolls and
all Musical Instruments always in stock.
Musical Department, Second Floor.
Carriage paid City and -Suburbs only. . •
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
’Phone: M 2401,
Day and Night.


=t
During the past twelve
months 81,065 De Soto
Sixes were produced at the
Factory—breaking all exist-
ing records for any first-year
car in the entire history of the
motor-car industry.
It was not surprising that a
car so handsome, so com-
fortable and responsive—-
and so safe and easy to drive
—should find a ready mar-
ket. But it is significant that
even such a car as this, in
the first year of its existence,
should set a new sales record
for the entire industry.
The answer must lie in wide-
spread public conviction that
the genius and resources of
Chrysler M otors confer
upon De Soto Six certain
excellent qualities that are
unmatched by any car of
comparable price.
A demonstration of the De
Soto will enable you to con-
firm for yourself the popular
judgment that has made the
De Soto Six a record-
breaker in its first year.
De Soto Six
CHRYSLER MOTORS PRODUCT
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS
New South
Victoria .
Queensland
Wales Grenville Motors, Ltd., Sydney
. . . . Automobiles Proprietary, Ltd., Melbourne
Stradbroke Motors, Ltd., Brisbane
South Australia Dominion Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Western Australia Wentworth Motors, Ltd., Perth
New Zealand .... New Zealand Motors, Ltd., Wellington
T asmania
Metro Motors Ply Ltd., Hobart.


» •
V
\
Wi
r zr
H
V*Hm P
L
#1
m
Gm»m
w»yTgirTj«wi m^jnmr. [
and
Here Begins*AMERICA
Nineteen days after leaving Syd-
ney, the traveller by the Matson-
Oceanic Line reaches San Fran-
cisco—the Golden Gateway to
America’s wonderful hinterland.
Nineteen days! All too short for
those on holiday bent —and yet
the fastest route to America for
those on business. From San
Francisco eastward bound, luxuri-
ous Pullman trains carry you the
Fares: Sydney to New York and
Return, £167/18/8 First Class;
£129/8/3 Second Class.
Round the World, £245 First Class;
£ ) 80/10/- Second Class, via America
and Return via Suez or The Cape,
and vice versa.
width of the Continent with com-
fort and ease, enabling you to see
new and interesting country as it
rolls by mile after mile.
California —the Golden State —
Utah, with Salt Lake City and
its surrounding desert lands —the
Mississippi Valley, and the won-
der Cities of the East, all await
you once you are on your
journey.
S.S. SIERRA S.S. SONOMA S.S. VENTURA
SAILING EVERY THIRD SATURDAY
For Suva, Pago Pago, Honolulu and San Francisco. Special Cheap Excursion
Tickets issued to Honolulu all the year round.
m
m y
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
Local Agents: Mcllwaith McEacharn Ltd., 94-96 William St., Melbourne; 117-119 King
William St., Adelaide; Fremantle, Perth, Albany; Howard Smith Ltd., Brisbane, Townsville
Write for descriptive
pamphlets, fare lists,
sailing dates, etc.
Name
Address
attacked, and thus brought to support the
war. It is the melancholy story of tl\e fear,
hate, revenge, arrogance, false pride, ambi-
tion, deceit, stupidity and bungling, which
caused the last war and will cause the next.
Ludwig puts forward a novel idea for
the prevention of war:—
If Europe does not want to slip into a new war,
then all countries must pass laws by which all
Ministers concerned will be deprived of their gas-
masks. Then the nations will suddenly be able to
stand each other!
Any Government really desiring peace
could not do better than to have this book
read in all schools—in fact, to make it
compulsory for all responsible persons to
read it. For it is not sickly pacifism which
one finds in this book, but the pacifism of
commonsense, which says that, it is stupid
to butt one’s head against a brick wall.
BERLIN.
R. S. PANTON.
A Malayan Animal-book
M. G. Skipper’s The Meeting Pool (Elkin
Mathews and Marrot; Robertson and
Mullens) has the advantage of two or three
dozen fine and sympathetic drawings by R.
W. Coulter. Skipper first heard the stories
which the animals tell one another from
the Kadavan inhabitants of Labuan, which
is a small, malarious island off Borneo. He
used to jot down these folk-tales, which
derive from a Javanese cycle called “Kalila
and Damina,” in the form of weekly letters
to one of his children who was ill in Aus-
tralia, and, to quote his foreword: “They
are now published in the hope that other
children may find them entertaining.”
In point of fact they will delight all
animal-lovers. As we listen to the argu-
ments of the jungle creatures in their forum
—the only part of the forest where all,
with one deplorable exception, observe a
truce of God—their personalities emerge
with remarkable clearness. Bruang, the small
bear, slow and commonplace of thought,
but, as he eventually proves, heroic in
character; the Ape, volatile, humorous and
without scruples; Babi, the pig, a mean-
spirited spy—each has a character and adds
something to the jungle atmosphere. Con-
sider the arrival of the Python:—
Just then a sound like a heavy body being slowly
dragged along the ground came from the dark
forest behind, and every bird and animal sprang up
quivering, and faced the sound, while their eyes
wandered to and fro as if they would have liked
to have jumped out of their sockets.
“Be seated, friends,” said the Python, lifting his
small, wicked-looking head a few inches above the
grass-blades, “I have dined.”
n. A , sigh of relief rustled through the grass and
tne leaves. The Python is the only creature of the
jungle who does not keep the island law not to
Rill at the meeting-pool.
The drama is supplied by the decision of
the animals to destroy the white rubber
planter who is destroying their jungle.
Eventually he decides to spare part of it,
and, after the death of the villainous python
at the claws and 43 teeth of the bear, all
ends happily. A charming book, admirably
printed and produced.
J.B.D.
The Bushwhackers
In the succession of books that help to
build up the life and character of our bush,
a small, close-knit study. The Bushwhacker,
by P. R. Stephensen (Queensland Rhodes
Scholar), now claims serious attention.
Published in London (Mandrake Press)
m a series with Liam O’Flaherty
and Rhys Davies, “The Bushwhackers” is
written with a touch of reminiscence and
remoteness. The writer does not address his
peers, his mates, as Lawson nearly always
did: he writes for a world outside, “without
remorse or mitigation,” though fortunately
without apology.
W hfit Mr. Stephensen enjoys, that he
praises with precise words. What he hates
he celebrates unmistakably. Of the praise
here is a fragment:—
So the two youngsters, bare-legged, freckled,
happy, went dangling their feet over the steep banks
of Deep Creek. . . .and under the deep, clear water
weeds swayed, like trees in a wind, but where there
is no wind, only the rhythm of glassy water moving
thiough a pool to bubble over stones in the shallows
at the bottom end; and in the "weeds v r ere fish.
Careful recording of remembered delight!
lor those rhythms below water Fumley
Maurice once found a word in a poem; he
called them “water-gales.”
When the author of “Bushwhackers”
hates, his vigor is at least equal to that of
his praise. In the name sketch of the book
he is heartily angry with the ignorant
bushwhacking, the deflowering of the bush,
done by those who wish to take everything
from the land and give nothing to it. Such
were two Darleys from Devon, who cut
down all the trees to let, grass grow, then
overstocked their paddocks and wondered
why grass grew less, and floods were more
catastrophic, and droughts more deadly:—
Floods.
The creeks, which had almost vanished, deep in
banks of earth, rose thunderously in yellow', swirling
growls as the water streamed off the hills, washing
with it the loosened top soil, no longer held firm
by living roots of trees..,.
Worse drought.
Then worse floods.
Hope springing, hope dying; impotent curses; the
Bush whacking the bushwhackers.
The book is rich in a kind of native idiom,
welding the vernacular into place with the
author’s inward meditations.
NETTIE PALMER.
Fashions in Speech
In his delightfully inconsequential remarks
on “Fashions in Speech” (R.P. 18/9/”29)
John Dailey accuses me of being a pedant.
If it is pedantic to call attention to the
slovenly speech habits acquired by our
boys and girls when they proceed to the
secondary-school phase of their education,
then I plead guilty. What are our schools
for, if not to provide standards of attain-
ment and precision—in speech as well as
in arithmetic or any other subject? All
that is necessary is a commonsense standard,
an Australian standard, which is already
part and parcel of our education system;
the only drawback is that, it is applied more
in one division of school life than the other.
If such speech training were consistently
carried out in our secondary schools, when
children are at the most impressive age. it,
would go far to eliminate the Americanisms
creeping into our speech. Mr. Dailey has
it that these are of no consequence, be-
cause there is no cultural difference be-
tween the Australian voice and the Ameri-
can voice. But it is not the true American
speech that our children see. hear and
copy; it is Hollywooden speech, which is
no more typical of American speech than
the argot of the pony racecourse is typical
of Australian speech.
COUNTRY FED.
Seeking a Soul
I thank R. S. Panton, writing from Berlin
about Australia’s soul (R.P. 2/10/’29), for
his insistence that nry conclusions are
right, even if he argues that my reason-
ing is wrong. He affirms that Australia
doesn’t really glorify the physical, but fol-
lows alleged sport merely from love of
sensation. I wonder how long it is since
Mr. Panton attended a surf carnival and
watched the inevitable “march-past.” Isn’t
this a glorification of the physical? And I
wonder how long it is since Mr. Panton sat
among the many thousands at Sydney
Cricket Ground and watched the feeble
efforts of international batsmen who strained
every nerve to get 40 runs in about 200
minutes. Is that a love of sensationalism?
I agree that “sport in its true sense earn
do no harm.” I complain because Australia
is departing from the spirit of “sport in its
true sense.” My acquaintances may be ill-
chosen, but their main topic of conversa-
tion on their way to the Cricket Ground
last year was not “Will we see some good
cricket?” but “What’s our chance of
winning?” which latter question seemed to
be the main idea of the newspapers also.
Three weeks ago I had a curt postcard
from an ex-Australian Eleven man of con-
siderable fame who has been holidaying in
England. He says: “Just a line to congratu-
late you on your article. It hits the nail
on the head and expresses what I have felt
for a long time.”
KEITH BARRY.
A Satchel of Books
The Fatty Finn Booh (No. 2), by Syd
Nicliolls (Arteraft Co., Sydney). Nothing
in the way of imported color-comic books
that The Bulletin has seen compares with
this Australian production, for either the
finish of its printing or the suitability of
the contents for Australian youngsters.
The humor is Australian, simple, clean and
healthy—an inexpensive gift-book peopled
with pirates and boys that any normal
youngster should enjoy.
The Great Roxhythe, by Georgette Heyer
(H’einemann), is a capably done romance of
high politics in Charles ll.’s reign. The mar-
quis, whose magnificence' is somewhat too
self-consciously theatrical, saves his adored
sovereign from plot after plot, and by pre-
ternatural adroitness and intrepidity brings
about a holocaust of traitors in connection
with the futile Monmouth affair. Like
Charles,' Roxhythe took an unconscionable
time a-dying, and his last words were: “Only
.. . .your. . . .pleasure. . . .sire.” He was
like that —always in character.
The Great Horn Spoon, by Eugene Wright
(Cape; Dymocks). When he left college
at about 20 Mr. Wright did not know what
an A.B. was, and that is a hard pill to
swallow. But need such pills be swallowed
when they are handed out by a travel-writer?
Surely it is enough if the effect is right;
and the effect he makes is of a raw young
man setting out to look with fresh eyes on
the picturesque East. He succeeds, too, in
seeing fresh things, or in seeing old things
freshly; captures much of the Asian
romance, and makes a fine, stirring yarn
of it all.
Kendall, Our “God-made Chief ’ —“A
Singer of the Daren,” by Mrs. A. M. Hamil-
ton-Grey (John Sands, Sydney). Further
sub-titled “A Continuation of ‘Poet Kendall,’
Making a Complete History from Cradle to
Grave,” this is a book for the true Kendallite,
in the full meaning of the term. No praise
of the poet and no appreciation of his work
could be more generous. Kendall, says the
author, “was not vain. He was not unstable.
He was not a lover of intoxicants for the
sake of drinking, and he was generous—to
a fault, sympathetic, long-suffering and for-
fiving.” Even an archbishop could not wish
for a more respectable epitaph.
The Highroad of Australian Terse, selected
by J. .T. Stable (Oxford University Press;
Roycroft Library, Sydney). An anthology
designed for Australian schools, but possess-
ing a wider note of appeal, for in it are
collected more than 150 verses, by 60 verse-
writers, from the first verse written about
Australia, “Visit of Hope to Sydney Cove,”
by Erasmus Darwin, grandfather of Charles,
to living writers, such as Hugh McCrae, Shaw
Neilson, Will Lawson, Mabel Forrest. Mary
Gilmore, C. H. Souter, Bernard O’Dowd,
Arthur Adams, Zora Cross, -Professor Brere-
ton, Vance Palmer and C. J. Brennan. The
compiler, Professor of English Literature at
Brisbane Uni., explains that he has selected,
as far as possible, to illustrate the growth of
poetical expression in Australia, and has
gathered from writers who have sought their
material in surroundings distinctively Aus-
tralian, and who have voiced sentiments
which the circumstances of Australian life
have emphasised. On that basis the book is
well compiled ; the expression falls short of
poetry often enough, but the verse throughout
is definitely national! in character.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
F.C.F.: Much obliged; but you’d be sur-
prised to know how many bless where you curse and
curse where you bless. .. .Morland W.: That kind of
thing eats more space than The B. can spare....
W.H.M.: Too late.... A.M.Y.: To begin with, look
up a description of the sonnet form C.W.: Sorry,
not suitable. ... 8.R.E.: Yours worse —only shootable.
.... A..T.8.H.: Too much morality for the verse’s
strength, or ours. .. .P.G.W.: None our kind. . . .A.H:.
Yerse too thick; humor too thin E.F.G.: It’s
fair, but we can't foretell the future L.A.S.:
Don’t fancy your “Trains” G.C.D.: Too long for
what it holds... .J.N.: Guessed right; the basket
wins. .. .L.J.G.: Fragile as a bubble. .. .Annie 0. :
Bottles; no thanks, Annie.... M.R.: Very nearly did
it. . . .E.W.V.: It is verse, but that’s a 11.... Ardens:
Not up H.F.G.: Read, as requested, “to the
bitter end.” Now chewing a life-saver.... M.C.A.:
Head fireman reports this is the most unoriginal
spring for 40 years.... 8.,3.: Beaten by lengths....
E.E.: “What is Life?” Dunno. Neither do you,
obviously... .N. of K.: Nothing tempting there....
W.M.W.: Don’t fancy idea.... Ugly M.: Queensland
Golden Casket receipts: 1925, £615,782 ; ’26,
£696,719 ; ’27, £778,086; ’2B, £886,883. In ’2B
salaries and commission totalled £35,878, office
expenses £31,038, and State tax £41,250; £528,000
was distributed in prizes and £247,765 handed to
the Home Secretary for hospitals, etc. There has
been no Federal tax since Jan., 1925. T.J.R.: It
wouldn’t pass muster, even if you hadn’t defied
Fitzgerald by rhyming “enow” with “blow” and
“dough”... .G.J.T.: Counted ten over it....H.E.:
Enter “the Lone Settler”: —
The wind is rattling the chimney iron of the Old
Homestead.
The dingoes howling in melancholy strain as though
their world w'as pain
Caused the strong faced man sitting by the fireside
to feel a little dread.
Hark! What was that?
A footstep upon the mat, a figure without a hat
Something like a dingbat that gave Dan such a
creepy feeling
That he “up Guards and at ’em,” and sent the
blighter reeling.
A feint with the left and a right to the ear
The apparition was “dooked”
For it had no chance with the Old Pioneer
The man who never fluked.
. ...N.J.: Neither quite gets there.... R.K.: Ship
has been chartered for return passage. .. .R.N.C.:
One has a faint chance... .W..T.W.: Nothing in
either. . . .S.W.A.K.: Swatted... ..J.H.C.: Unhappily,
originality of idea is not enough, though it is much.
.. . .0.K.L.: And it had been such a cheerful morning !
. ...N.8.: Not a bean.... Evox : Statement that you
“closed your heart with a lock of gold” caused the
keeper of the exchequer to close his with a bar of
iron A.W.H.: Enough of Billy for this week,
thank you. .. . E.T.R.: “The Bashers’ Victim’-’ suffered
the same fate... .P.S.: Posted sharply.... Trebor:
Too thin by a hundred yards. ...Syd Swagman:
“Back to the Bush” returned —as usual, to city
address... .T.G.: Has the honor of being first into
the official summer fire... .E.W.E.: Should be able
to place ’em elsewhere... .R.V.D.: A good yarn, but
much too long; practically two yarns. .. .D.D.: Was
the degree conferred by a two-up school ?.... T..T.L.:
An old tale retold... .J.A.H.: Devil and author hav-
ing it out in the basket. .. .E.C.S.: Your fanatic
gave the office cat a fit. . . .E.K.H.: Sorry you mis-
construed its return; it was for keeps. .. .L.E. : Too
discursive. .. .C.S.G.: Sergeant-major placed on
retired list. . . .H.H.: “Cockney-Tommy” and
“Jimmy-come-Friday” go home together... .R.J.0.:
About as true as any other diary, including Pepys’s.
. ...E.O’N.: Bright, but not enough body in it.
.... Mow': Too many round figures to be useful....
P.l'.C.: Not necessary.... Flat: The Randwick crowd
may be exceptionally well dressed and the country
still financially sick. Is the best-dressed man you
know the solidest ?.. . . P.C.: Too thin. .. . Boronia :
Afraid it’s in the fhruppence-a-bunch class... .C.CI.:
You’ll have to complain ' direct to Celia... .T.L.S.:
“City Streets” like the original in one point at
least —they’d need a good deal of digging over. . . .
A.M.F.: “Poem on a Matchbox” is in its place....
G.L.M.: Hughes is now a short head in front of
Spring in the Inspiration Stakes. ... F.S.M.: Wobbly
as a dipsomaniac’s left fist....lan: Don’t fancy any
of ’em, but appreciate the effort. ... Wakener: Idea
too 51ight....8.R.: Dismal picture... . J.H.P.: “King
of Assam” dethroned and put to death. .. .J.11.E.D.:
Too late. . . .H. 8.: They’re not an impressive lot of
clouds. . . .M.C.: Dumped. .. . J. 8.: Pome in 27 spasms
painlessly destroyed... .Punter: The Bulletin would
have three totes—“straightout,” “place” and
“doubles.” The man with the little double is the
most brazen odds-cramper of all. .. . W.R.A.: Worn-
out stage properties; heavy father, submissive maiden,
despondent lover. .. .L.A.L.: Earns no cash....
J.T.C.: Not bad as a character-sketch but wants
action. . . .D.M.: More morality than literary merit.
. ...S.L.: Might appeal to children... .G. 8.: Drab
and dreary... .L.W.: Neither story suitable, but
might find a place elsewhere... .A.W.S.: Sympathetic
and nothing more.... M.L.: Material for a par. ;
not a story.... M.A.: That chicken lays no egg....
J.A.C.: Rolling home.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.M.: That fellow has been missing since the
’nineties. . . .W.J.M.8.: Had to bow Phyllis and Maud
out. .. .G.A.C.: Y oil’ll have to keep on trying....
R.W.: Your art has a very distant prospect of
fetching a cheque. . . .W.R.D.: Try with better
drawing—you can do better. . . .8.J.: Don’t like your
flappers in black pyjamas, or whatever they’re wear-
ing.... H. 8.: You can't coax us with those sausages.
H.S.: It would crack the lens of the process-
engraver's camera... .A.R.: Very fair for a 15-year-
old ; lessons should improve your work considerably.
.... 8.R.P.: Skipper won’t find whai’fage for his
dingy tubs here. . . .U.T.: What made you call her
an Australian beauty ?.... E.C.: Only fit for the tip.
.... P.A.: Gag pointless.... L.M.: Tame.


ns
1 i»i- ■ -aMaMßfci
■ A-
« j
■
■ i
■ i
m
■
R i
m
m
u
-
inu-...
■
'-V y:
■ :
i'
;
lH
sfe&„«...
11l
1111
■
■■■' .■ ■■■": • ■ .
' «-€ Ww'i
np{ jggi«^pg
-
• ■" :
■■
fe -:
■ -. • . :. •
: : ' S:
, S *Js' ! S & sS - jsjf\ff
.S':
: I :
;:■<:■
ShHhH m
m
■ • '
iiiii
...
'. /; ' : . J ' ■■■'; • '■■• ;:v -' ■ '
lifi
0 $
79
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD,


The Bulletin
Vol. 50.-—No. 2592.
Ootober 16, 1929.
THE MORNING AFTER.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
2lit George Street, Sydneyj Box 252188.
Victoria: lib-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 21/9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westiialia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Regent 57 96.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 b s -J 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, Is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. Gd.j 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom.' //oz. to 10oz., lbd.;
each additional boz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lbd.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: )02. or part thereof,
Id. Flseivßere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES . . 2, 5
LOOKING FOR AUSTRALIA’S DAWN.—
By Colonel Arthur Lynch (Lond.) ..2
A GERMAN HISTORY OF THE WAR.—
Reviewed by R. S. Panton (Berlin) 2, 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . . . 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
Votes in the Market .. ..8
Worse Things Than Legs .. 8
THE RAIDERS—HOW THE NAVY GETS
READY, by J. H. M. Abbott . . .. 8
AUSTRALIAN FIGURES STILL SLIPPING . . 8
AUSTRALIAN TEXTILES AND THE “BIG
FOUR” 8, 9
A CARTOON BY PEROIVAL 9
POLITICAL POINTS 10
POVERTY POINT .. .* 11
“What Did You Bring That Up For?”
—A Cartoon by Scorfield . . . . .. 11
PERSONAL (with three caricatures) . . .. 13
SOCIETY (with drawings) U, 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) . . .. 16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS IS, 20
DAVID JONES 18
LINCOLN MILLS 18
NEWS 00. (ADELAIDE) 18
ALLAN AND STARK 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 23, 25
Free Service Department ■ • • • •. 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 32
HOW TO PLANT SUB. CLOVER .. ..28
WHAT’S BEST TO DO WITH STUBBLE
STRAW ..28
NUTRITIVE VALUE OF WHEAT STRAW.. 28
QURRENT WORK WITH CITRUS TREES .. 32
SMOKE-OH 34
PEN AND PICTURE 37
THE LOOKIES —Their First Beginnings .. 37
ART SHOWS .. 37
THE INKY WAY 37
SPORTING (illustrated) 39, 41, 42
A.J.C. Spring Meeting .. 39
V.A.T.C., Caulfield 39
BUSINESS, ROBBERY 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 45
SPRING RACE PARTIES 45
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 48
RACE FROCKS AND FRIVOLS 48
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 50
“PARADISE PLUMES” .. .. 47, 51, 52
COMPLETE SHORT STORY-
UNTOLD TALES OF BULLY HAYES—
By Albert Dorrington . . . . 55, 57, 58
VERSE. —By E. M. England, Furnley Maurice,
Marjorie Bulcock, E. J. Brady .. 52, 58
Next Week.
TWO FINE STORIES.—
By Harold Mercer and Osmar E. White.
AUSTRALIA’S RAILWAY PROBLEM.
Some Startling Conclusions.
Special Race Forecasts.
OCTOBER 30.
A David McKee Wright Number.
The Fiction Section will print hitherto unpublished
stories and poetry by David Wright, with a drawing
of the poet by David Low.
NOVEMBER 6.
The Cheerful Serial, “Merry Christmas!” starts.
[For all matter in this issue requiring a signature
under the Commonwealth Electoral law, where it
is not otherwise specified S. H. Prior, J. E. Webb
and James Edmond, all of 214 George-street, Syd-
ney, accept the responsibility.]
ffie'&zzlleZzfft
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1929.
VOTES IN THE MARKET.
The most sinister feature of the just-past
general election is that one of the two
great parties and at least two great interests
put themselves forward as dealers in the
market-place. In one case, that of the
picture interests, there seems very little
doubt that money was contributed freely
to Labor’s campaign funds. Up to a
certain point the picture-people them-
selves fought a strenuous campaign,
as they were quite entitled to do. The
Government proposals, if carried, would
hurt them, and they had a right to put up
a defence. But then something else hap-
pened. Thus far there had been no sign
of affluence on the Labor side. Suddenly
the picture-people’s independent campaign
ceased; simultaneously the Labor party
began to spend money with a prodigality
which it had never before approached; and
at the foot of its lavishly-advertised policy
there were the significant words: “No Tax
on Amusements!” In another case, the
sellers had little or no money to put up,
but they had something worth money—they
had votes. So we saw Government em-
ployees organised for political purposes, and
if we did not see their votes offered at
auction and hear the bid made, we know
that for all practical purposes a bid was
called for, was made and was accepted.
The Labor party welcomed this alliance,
or whatever it can be called, with the joyous
satisfaction it had shown when it was rein-
forced by the Hollywood gentry, and with
the same reckless disregard of ultimate
consequences. Its press exultingly announced
that, with both these interests active against
them, the Bruce-Pages were doomed. In-
herent modesty, and perhaps a little diffi-
culty about naturalisation papers, prevented
representatives of Hollywood coming out
as Labor candidates, but nominations were
gratefully bestowed upon leaders of the
other allied army. A. V. Langker, who
was put up against Attorney-General
Latham in Kooyong (Vic.), is the secretary
of the Commonwealth Public Service Cleri-
cal Association. F. K. Nieass, who opposed
Malcolm Cameron in Barker, is the
secretary of the S. Aus. Government
Workers’ Association.
When the election campaign was at its
height a conference of the Public Service
Federation was held in Perth. This concern
represents (or claims to represent) 300,000
Government employees, the great majority
of whom enjoy benefits denied to most of
their fellow-Australians—security of tenure,
short hours, numerous holidays, sick leave,
long-service leave, salaries committees and
superannuation pay. But, except for an
honest remonstrance from a Westralian dele-
gate, the reports of the Perth proceedings
may be searched in vain for any expression
of gratitude for these concessions or any
reference to the larger interests of the
nation or the plight of some of its principal
industries. Joyfully anticipating a Labor
victory, the conference “formulated its de-
mands.” The demands include Federal
arbitration awards for State employees
(“why should the States escape this type
of interference?” a Victorian delegate
asked); no work on Saturdays; no income-
tax on superannuation allowances; super-
annuated officers not getting the basic wage
to have the old-age pension; minors who
marry to receive “not less than the basic
wage”; “representation of employees on all
boards, commissions, committees or
tribunals dealing with pay or conditions”;
and “every public servant, in addition to
existing rights, to have the right of appeal
against appointments from outside the ser-
vice and promotion of other officers,” the
appeal board to consist of “a representative
of the Government, a representative of the
union and an independent chairman.”
The Westralian delegate aforesaid inter-
rupted this carnival of sectionalism by
pointing out that it would be “unwise to
seek privileges which are not general.”
“There is danger,” he added, “in building
up a privileged caste.” Individual Vic-
torian teachers have also come out
with strong protests against the political
manoeuvres of the council of their union.
One wrote that “teachers as a body will
resent the suggestion that their selfish
interests should outweigh all other con-
siderations.” It is to be hoped that these
good citizens express the real spirit of the
services, and that this spirit will prevail. A
corrupt alliance—to give the thing the choice
of names —might be temporarily successful;
but it is not going to do them any good
in the long run. If they or any great num-
ber of them are prepared to throw their
votes this way or that according as this
party or that promises them most conces-
sions, let them be sure of this—the’' 7 w’M
lose the right to vote with the general body
of citizens.
As for the picture showmen, it is doubt-
ful whether they will be any better off in
the long run either; at any rate it is a
very dangerous thing to tie any group of
business enterprises to one political party
unless it is dead-sure that that party will
not only get into power, but stay there.
However, The Bulletin is concerned much
less about the picture interests than about
the Labor party. Hitherto that party has
stuck to its job, though it may have some-
times done it badly. But if it puts itself
into a position where it must be at the beck
and call of any great financial group, what
becomes of all its fine ideals?
WORSE THINGS THAN BEGS.
Our movie censors have always worked on
the principle that nothing nationally harm-
ful can be done by a film except through
sex-appeal. Illogically enough, though
scenes of cuddling and nudity are sternly
cut, there is no censorship of posters. This
causes stay-at-home puritans (mostly priests
and parsons) to talk of film-theatres as
dens of pornography. The practice suits
local picture-magnates, both for the free
advertisement it gives their shows, and
for the free hand it gives Hollywood’s
stipendiary patriots to push other lines of
their stock-in-trade.
At one of Australia’s greatest picture
houses the programme at the time of
writing consists of a topical gazette in
the “first part,” featuring views of the U.S.
navy manoeuvring and shooting, views of
U.S. soldiers on the march, and a number of
U.S. flying stunts, military and otherwise.
“Old Glory” appears seven times and is
saluted four times. The “second part” is
a N. York underworld talkie, with the usual
handsome killer, who dies game, as the
central figure.
In the days before Australians bought
145,000,000 picture seats every year the
great exporting nations, and notably Britain,
used to get overseas trade by “showing the
flag.” One Special Service Squadron
“showed the flag” here no later than 1923
chiefly on behalf of the British motor trade.
Latterly this expensive form of propaganda,
has been given up. It was idle to think of
competing that way with Hollywood, which
is actually paid millions sterling every year
by Australia alone for showing the U.S.
flag here every day and many times a day.
One undesirable effect is that thousands of
youthful Australians think of national
emblems, ideals, goods and pastimes along
lines laid down by the great American
cinema interests.
A film, like every other art-form, however
crude, reflects the civilisation which is
responsible for it. President Hoover
recently described violent crime as “the
dominant issue before the American people.”
He said in his inaugural address:—
“More than 9000 human beings are being
lawlessly killed every year in the United
States. Little more than half as many
arrests follow. Less than one-sixth of those
arrested receive punishment.”
This is one of the reasons why five talkies
out of every seven now being released in
Australia deal with bank hold-ups (of which
the American Bankers’ Association reported
the record number of 292 last year), gang
warfare, the doings of bandits in speak-
easies and murderers in gaols. The other
reason is, of course, that there is a never-
failing public for crime pictures, as there
would be for pornographic pictures if the
law allowed them. The psychological effect
is the same in both cases. The weak-minded,
who constitute about 95 per cent, of every
criminal population, bring ruin on them-
selves and others by imitating what they
see. In the U.S.A., on the authority of
the President, “the old type of criminal has
virtually disappeared, and been replaced by
young men whose inventiveness is exceeded
only by their lack of fear.” The same thing
is now happening in the big Australian cities,
where addiction to gang warfare and gang
silence, shooting on sight and drug-taking,
go hand in hand with addiction to the
pictures.
The censors could alter all this, and they
would if once they got used to the idea
that a nation can import much deadlier
things than views of flappers’ legs.
THE RAIDERS.
In this article J. H. M. Abbott shows
Australia how its little fleet 'practises to
repel an invader, and reports a few con-
clusions from, recent manoeuvres.
All night the Flagship had shivered and
vibrated in the throes of high speed, as she
raced through the starlit waters of the
Tasman Sea. It was really only half-speed,
but, for the purposes of the game, we were
supposed to be tearing through the waves
at a rate of 38 m.p.h., and, somewhere out
in the distant darkness, the enemy’s two
battle-cruisers were putting their best legs
forward at a gait of 31, which was really
represented by 15 knots.' We thus had the
advantage of speed over the raiders, but
the job was to find them; and when I went
on to the windy quarter-deck at 4.30 a.m.,
it looked a difficult job.
Three nights before the captain had come
into the ward-room after dinner, and
delivered a little lecture. The two Maori-
land cruisers Dunedin and Diomede, he
said, representing battle-cruisers belonging
to the Kingdom of Hush, were to pass
through a “gateway” 80 miles in width some
250 miles to the eastward of Australia at
8 a.m. on Sunday. An arc of 80 miles,
therefore, had to be scouted by Australia,
Canberra, Albatross with her seaplanes,
and the three destroyers. The destroyers
were to take the northern sector at intervals
of about 10 miles, and then would come
Albatross. Should the weather be too bad
for that quaint-looking ark to send up her
doves, she would run north to Cato Island
and try for a lee there that would enable
them to operate. South of Albatross would
be Australia and Canberra, at intervals of
20 miles. This disposition would cover the
80 miles involved by the limitations of the
exercise. It was the Australian squadron’s
business to prevent the enemy ships from
getting into Hervey Bay, their objective,
by noon on Monday, and, incidentally, to
so knock them about that they would have
serious difficulty in getting anywhere.
So we had sailed eastward from Great
Sandy Cape on the Saturday morning, in
line ahead—Australia, Canberra, Albatross,
Anzac, Swordsman and Success —to try to
find the raiders. At dusk all the portholes
in the ships were closed by the deadlights,
and there was not a glimmer above-deck
on any of the ships save a tiny, blue-shaded,
hooded electric at the bases of the jack-
staffs, aft, for our next-asterns to steer and
keep station by. The watches were at night
stations, and the guns were manned by
nucleus crews from dusk to dawn. At three
o’clock on Sunday morning the Admiral
went to the bridge to watch his command
disperse to their scouting positions, and the
ships spread themselves out over the inky
sea, each on her responsible quest. The
wireless was not to be used until we were
in touch with the enemy, so that they might
have no clue to our whereabouts.
About 11 a.m. on Sunday the destroyer
Success discovered one of the hostile battle-
cruisers trying to sneak through at the
northern end of the sector, and informed
the Flagship by wireless. Early in the
afternoon we found her, and opened fire.
She had 12in. guns against our Bin., but we
outranged her by many thousand yards, as
we out-speeded her by seven miles an hour.
So all the afternoon you must imagine us,
as we had to imagine ourselves, racing
ahead of the big, slow battle-cruiser, our
after-turrets roaring and crashing with ear-
splitting detonations, as we kept away from
our powerful enemy and played her all the
nasty tricks we had at our command. She
could not reach us, and we pounded her
for hours. But, without imagination, all
that was noticeable was the waving snouts
of the long guns as they ranged on the grey
pucker on the horizon that was their target.
(Afternoon tea was served in the ward-
room as usual.)
At 5.30 p.m. the Admiral informed Can-
berra’s captain that he considered he had
inflicted sufficient damage on the enemy
ship to leave her to be finished off by the
destroyers after dark. The two big cruisers
would now go and look for the other enemy
raider off Hervey Bay. So back we turned
at top-speed—and that brings us to this
cold, dark Monday morning on the Flag-
ship’s breezy quarter-deck, as we groped
for the remaining battle-cruiser. A dark
shape, 400 yards astern of us, was Canberra.
Just before dawn we found the raider
coming up from the south towards Great
Sandy Cape, and wheeled round to get out
of range, pelting her with projectiles. Maybe
she hit us once or twice as we got away
from her, and didn’t do us any good. The
reddening sky above the hard, dark horizon-
line showed the silhouettes of the three
destroyers eastward of us, just as they look
in F. T. Jane’s “Fighting Ships.” Canberra
was in action, too. The enemy tried to
torpedo us—she fired a white rocket to
indicate this kindly intention —but the range
was too great. Then all the forenoon the
Hushites on that unfortunate ship had an
imaginary devil of a time of it. Our two
big cruisers shelled her from miles beyond
her range, and the destroyers attacked her
under cover of smoke-screens, whilst three
seaplanes from Albatross came over Fraser
Island from Hervey Bay and bombed her.
At noon the operations ended. Australia
had been saved from the raiders.
There is no doubt that the squadron
very efficiently demonstrated its ability to
deal with a couple of raiding battle-cruisers.
But from the naval point of view what was
made reasonably clear was that Australia
ought to provide herself with another
cruiser of the Flagship’s class, as a reserve,
or, alternatively, with four more submarines,
since a bare two are valueless, save in the
vicinity of their base.
As to the seaplanes, one has to regret-
fully admit that they were quite useless for
scouting purposes during the raid. The
weather was clear and visibility good, but
even the slight ocean joggle prevented
their being launched from the Albatross,
even under the lee of Cato Island. They
cannot therefore be trusted as sea-scouts.
J. H.M.A.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Still Downhill!
For the first two months of the business
year (July and August), trade returns
showed the usual result—that Australia
doesn’t produce enough and that it wallows
in far more imported luxury than it can
afford. Imports were £11,794,005 in excess
of exports, which are supposed to pay for
them and to leave a surplus of about
£3,000,000 per month to cover interest on
external debts and other liabilities. Exports
were millions less than in the correspond-
ing two months last year, and imports were
1£ millions more, so Australia did less in
the way of supporting itself, and spent more
money in supporting other people. Natur-
ally it was short of employment, for a com-
munity can’t buy mountains of goods from
foreigners and at the same time have the
job of making the goods.
Two alarming events have happened
almost simultaneously. The number of
employees in Australian factories showed a
decline; and whereas Australia has lately
been borrowing some £30,000,000 per annum
abroad at 5i per cent, to cover its chronic
shortage of production, and been doing it
with only moderate difficulty, its last appeal
was met with the offer of a skimpy £5,000,000
for a year at per cent. This was
accepted because there was no help for it,
and presently, unless we change our ways,
we shall be driven to still more desperate
expedients. For instance, the gold reserve
protecting the note issue is above the legal
limit, and a Government which was resolved
to try anything before attempting a strenu-
ous encouragement to local industry might
send abroad the trifling surplus—a legacy
of better days. Still this is the sort of thing
which can only be done once, like suicide.
♦
Bruce’s Big Self-seeking Four.
Prime Minister Bruce’s “Big Four,” the
quartette who were imported to advise us
on the best course we could pursue in
John Bull’s interests, have been speaking
about us so loudly that their friendly
counsel has been cabled this way. The
matter was summarised thus:—
“Members of the British Economic Mission
to Australia and representatives directly con-
nected with wool textiles met at Bradford
to-day to consider what action should be
taken to maintain a fair share of the Aus-
tralian market for the British wool textile
industry.
“A statement furnished by the delegates
says: The vital question is how far is the
Australian Government prepared to admit the
present inability on the part of Australian


manufacturers to produce certain-ranges and
classes of fabrics at an economic price, and
alter the tariff to permit the importation of
these fabrics from the United Kingdom, where
they can be made efficiently. It is thought
that some decisive step will be taken by the
meeting.”
Various things may be said in reply. If
it is alleged that the British wool-textile
manufacturer has a right to a “fair share”
of the Australian market (he defining the
size of the share) as against the Aus-
tralian manufacturer, the reply is that
no such right exists; we can’t give away
“fair shares” and be honest at the same
time, and we prefer to be honest.
The British maker, with his large local
and export market, can no doubt afford to
produce a larger variety of patterns and
so on than the Australian maker with his
small local outlet, especially while he allows
outsiders to have so much of his market.
But why not do with such “ranges and
classes of fabrics” as can be made here till
the situation improves? It is more likely
to improve if our market is preserved for
our own products than if more imported
wares are admitted to reduce such chances
as there are. If there is a breed of Aus-
tralian who feels that he simply can’t
exist without a particular brand of waist-
coat or pants which the Australian manu-
facturer is as yet unable to supply, the
cost should be raised rather than lowered.
If he can’t stand the strain during the
interval of waiting, the silent tomb is always
available.
It is a chronic complaint of British fluff
magnates and others and of their press
heelers that Australia ought, in common
decency or gratitude or something, to buy
more from the Cold Country. But that is
a one-sided view of the matter. What
they don’t tell us is whether John Bull
will (1) continue to lend us money to pay
for the absurdly large surplus of goods
which we import already, (2) lend us more
money when our trade balance is worse,
(3) furnish the money at reasonable interest
(not per cent.), and (4) take matters in
a philosophic spirit when we offer some-
thing in the £.
The Old Man is a fine old reasonable
chap in many respects; but when he is
seeking a market for his fluff, his Free-
traders have a tendency to become irre-
sponsible.
4
The Bruce-Pages.
The Bulletin bids the Bruce-Page Gov-
ernment farewell with little regret! From a
financial standpoint, which is infinitely the
most important, it was an unmitigated dis-
aster. It didn’t heap up, expenditure any
faster than its predecessor Hughes, who was
a marvel in that line, but it wasn’t created
that it might pile Pelion upon Ossa, but
rather that it might leave Pelion alone and
shovel a bit off Ossa. In that respect it failed
miserably. Its habit of delegating matters
of importance to be pondered over by com-
missions and committees was dilatory,
shirking and costly, and as nothing came of
the committees and commissions it was also
futile. Its importation of alleged “experts”
was a poor joke, though it didn’t invent the
joke. It developed a craving for pressing
money it didn’t have on the richer States,
that they might make more roads to com-
pete with the State railways.
Yet there was never any extensive criti-
cism about these doings. Unhappily 95 per
cent, of Australians belong to one party—
the Borrowing Party. Treasurer Earle
Page, the evil genius of the Cabinet, didn’t
even have to fight for his seat.
So in the natural order of things the
rotten finance of the Government had
nothing to do with its fall; and whether in
this respect its successors will be a bit
better is doubtful. Theodore is likely to be
Treasurer, and in Queensland he was worse.
Scullin’s inexperience is a handicap; on
the other hand, his honesty may lead him
to some quite unexpected conclusions when
he discovers what Australia’s position
really is.
4 _
The Lay of the Sozzled Nigger.
A deputation that twined its finger in the
buttonhole of the N. S. Wales Director of
Education the other day and asked that
the schools should do more than they are
doing to improve the national taste in
music said a lot of things that needed say-
ing. Australia has been bitten by th 6
American jazz-bug as badly as the Ameri-
cans themselves, and the bite is poisonous.
Jazz makes its appeal to the musically
ignorant and uneducated. Its place in the
{esthetic scale is low and it has added
nothing of worth to the musical development
of the country that gave it birth. Eminent
American composers have toyed with its
possibilities and found them negligible, and
the vast raging tide of mawkish stuttering
that floods the world emanates from persons
of no importance whatever in the estimate
of educated music-lovers, no matter how fat
the bank-balances of the perpetrators may
wax.
Jazz is easy: easy to dance to; easy to
sing. If there are words to it they are
usually in the form of an amorous soliloquy
by an apparently half-sozzled nigger. It
soon becomes monotonous and nauseating
to the musician, and that it isn’t found
nauseating by hundreds of thousands of
good people in Australia is evidence of a
very low ebb of musical culture. The stuff
hasn’t even the virtue that it is cheerful;
some of the “blues” are more oleaginously
lugubrious than the worst inventions of the
late Ira D. Sankey. The effect of this
drivel on its devotees is far from healthy.
It is more aphrodisiacal to the multitude,
because so much more easily assimilated,
than the most lascivious passages of Wagner
or Liszt, and it pervades the whole warp
and woof of Australian life with a flavor of
cheap and bad Americanism.
What can be done about it? Musical
education is the only answer. Reversing
Gresham’s monetary law, good music
drives out bad, and a taste for good music
has to be acquired. A dance orchestra
conductor recently asked satirically what
would happen if jazz were banned. “You
can’t dance the hootchy-koochy or the
black-bottom to oratorio,” he asserted.
That’s true enough, but it begs the question
whether it is necessaiy to dance such
Ethiopian eccentricities and doesn’t dispose
of the theorem that it is better for a singer’s
soul that.he should impersonate a prophet
or an angel than that he should imitate a
lustful negro of dubious sobriety.
The cinema shows have been blamed for
the jazzination of Australia, but the charge,
until the arrival of the talkies, couldn’t be
generally sustained. Picture orchestras,
particularly those in the larger city theatres,
used to introduce some very good music to
their patrons, and even that dreadful con-
traption the Wurlitzer organ wasn’t chroni-
cally devoted to tripe. But the orchestra
and even the Wurlitzer appear likely to
disappear under a flood of canned cacophony
of exclusively American origin, and- unless
something is done to educate the ears of
the rising generation it may go to its grave
harboring the delusion that Irving Berlin
represents the apotheosis of musical art.
4
Looking Back a Year or Two.
“First Battalion”: The downfall of the
Roman Empire was marked notably by two
things. First there was the mad pursuit of
pleasure. For thousands it was their whole
life; from noon to eve the hectic round of
theatre, baths, colosseum and stadium went
on. Then there was the unwillingness to
work.
Soon Rome, corrupted, became deaf to
the warnings of her statesmen, like the
Gracchi, and gave an eager ear to the
politicians who would say anything, promise
anything, do anything for office. These
political panderers imported cheap corn from
distant parts for those who would not work
for it. They provided free entertainments
in circus and stadium, the counterpart of
our picture shows.
And what of Australia? Unhappily we
do not have to seek the points of resem-
blance; it is more difficult to find radical
differences.
We see self-seeking men trying to climb
into power by pandering to the pleasure
profiteers. We see them moving the crowds
with fulminations against taxes on amuse-
ment. Taxes on industry if you will; but
on amusement—no! We see the most
ornate, the most extravagant buildings in
the Commonwealth erected to the glory of
one single form of entertainment. We see
the doors of these places thrown open in
the early morning and kept open till mid-
night. Rome all over again!
And we have just had another staggering
parallel. In the last desperate days of the
political panderers and destroyers, they
courted the Roman army, especially the
demobilised soldiery—the Anzacs of Rome.
Does the result, the downfall of the
mighty power, carry no warning to us?
MORE IMPORTANT BUSINESS.
THE STUDENT ON THE KERB: “Here, buzz off, you blokes, you’ve interrupted a man long enough.”
THE SWING TO LABOR.
Well, thank God for this at least—we live in a country where by merely going
peacefully to the poll the people may throw out any Bruce whose politics or
administration they don’t like! In this going-to-the-poll the community has its
safety valve. The multitude will not get what it has been promised. But at any
rate it has now something to hope for; and hope is the best guarantee of good
behavior./
And this country has been getting perilously near civil war. Not only have
we had organised gangs attacking peaceful citizens for obeying the laws and police
constables for carrying the laws into effect, but we have had members of Parliament
and party leaders denouncing the lawkeepers and upholding the lawbreakers. We
have had Theodore, one of the most powerful men in Australia to-day, talking about
the “natural justice” which transcends all law in exactly the style of the only
rebel who asked
/ When Adam delved and Eve span
Who was then the gentleman?
After Saturday there is no longer a shred of justification for those outrages or
even for those strikes that have so disfigured the record of the past year or so.
Some people will ask what will happen if there are strikes and strike outrages—
what will this new Labor Government do in the way of repression? It is too
early yet to say. There have been a few spineless Labor Governments; on the
other hand, there have been Labor Governments which have been conspicuous
in maintaining the law. What obviously is the duty of Federal Labor leaders at the
moment is to put it to this great majority of the people who stood behind them on
Saturday that they can’t have it both ways: that they can’t appeal to,both law and
force. Labor members of the new House especially must realise that force is their
particular enemy. Their job is to save the world by legislation and administration.
Force is the rival nostrum. Every time they allow it to'assert itself they sap their
own foundations. They are where they are for the express purpose of showing that
men can get justice without resort to strike and disorder and violence; and it is
their business not only to impress that upon their followers, but to insist that those
who do resort to strike and disorder and violence are the enemies of the constitutional
Labor party, no matter what they may call themselves.
Apart from this consideration the country would have far better reason for
putting on sackcloth and ashes had the Bruce-Page Government been much less of a
lame duck. Again and again during the past two years The Bulletin has been
driven almost to despair by the futility and extravagance of Ministers. /Their one
conspicuous virtue was their honesty and sincerity. More than anything else it
was that virtue which led them on to their fall. A less sincere and a more adroit man
than Bruce would not have allowed that splendid hater and experienced tactician
Hughes to choose their field of battle, as undoubtedly he did. On this question of
industrial arbitration how could Bruce hope to persuade the working man and woman
that, so far from contemplating an attack upon wages and hours of labor, the
Nationalists wanted to see wages more and hours of labor less? The last tittle of
hope the party might have had of persuading the working masses into believing
anything of the kind was scuttled when the prosecution of John Brown, the richest
coalmine owner and one of the largest employers in the country, was withdrawn.
Of course it was withdrawn in honesty and in the sincere belief that thereby
. industrial peace might be brought a little closer; but the withdrawal was open
to quite a different construction, and the opening was taken.
Indeed every opening was taken. There was a time when the Labor party
plodded through its campaigns sustained by its ideals and the unselfish devotion
of its more active supporters. On this occasion it employed every trick, every artifice
of the business; blessed (or cursed) with wealthy allies, it had as much money to
spend as its enemy and spent it magnificently. Whether it can do all this and
remain the old Labor party has yet to be demonstrated. Can it be sophisticated
and sincere at the same time? The danger that lies ahead of the working men and
women of Australia is that they may become—if they haven’t already become—
mere pawns in a game of politics played by a small group of professionals, ready
to make compromising alliances in order to secure immediate advantages.
There is one other grain of consolation to be picked up from the litter of
personalities and promises. On present appearances, no small group will hold the
■ balance of power. All that Hughes and his little group will get out of the wreck
is the satisfaction of knowing that they caused it.


IV i, : ,§
W X 2.* x 1 > » 4'4| ** *' *
*V i *%5« * J|j
«'V ,* vi- 'vV a. *
7 >: i - „** v%jL» *? P/V ■ t
vesion m-** v
IJ* Cl « .V: * ’jS
’ "t* , ;
« * ’ *
i f
P 1 '«
iti- 5^:S
«# ~ p
f>s *
;o
It:
*S
W‘ I
>' f <-
ii
fa
0% A
5 4
&V fT
IS,. 9
•H r .f
f# **
V -t
y *>
is
vilr
Pc,
i
%■>
m $
* -^a%
$$
■a|
r %>
"\
i
•»
4
' '■*> Cl I .^»i
e
4 *<* ! a p '
ii
■r,/\v’« ■» ' i i', v i" ■« .'■%■'■ >v *s :j»t v%>
MOTpR* SPIRIT
1 ' ;4 .dt 1 **> >
*v j*r
4vJ>
I
Ska
*C - V
c i
r i: #
s*tf
}
%
i
*
tsx
I
■w*
A
jfp
flk -
v •.:• m
a
v <
*
41
• x
<x\
'I
A
mm
t
■■"-,v v
&
I
■*§
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Bruee-Page regime arrived unexpect-
edly on Feb. 9, 1923, and survived two gen-
eral elections, less because o£ its own deserts
than the shortcomings of its opponents. On
Oct. 12, 1929, it was shattered beyond hope
of repair. Most people had a notion that
the appeal to the country would give them
a new Government; few thought that the
old one would be shot out so emphatically.
But the desire of change, which always
works against a long-distance Administra-
tion, was reinforced by powerful impulses and
interests. The moving-picture people and
the public-service organisations made com-
mon cause with the Scullin-Theodore party;
the arbitration issue divided the Nationalists
into two fiercely warring factions; »and
Labor made effective use of the cry that the
Government which proposed to abolish the
iCourt and had withdrawn the John Brown
prosecution was after a reduction of wages
and in league with the Rich against the
Pore. So the defeat became a rout.
Lou Atkinson has
evidently lost Wilmot
(Tas.) at last, but it
took a strong man,
ex-Premier Lyons, to
beat him, and it was
a close thing. Atkin-
son has been Wilmot’s
member since 1906. A
companion in misfor-
tune is Speaker
Groom, who was the
first man out in Dar-
ling Downs, Groom
has represented the
Downs since Sept.,
1901. It has been a
bad election for the
hereditary principle.
Groom succeeded his
late father, and
Graham Pratten suc-
ceeded his late uncle,
and both have lost
what were reckoned
very safe seats.
Labor looks like
being stronger in the
House of Reps, than
it was in its peak
year, 1910 (there were
42 Labor members
Llewelyn Atkinson.
then), though it will be weak in the Senate.
Possessing 31 seats in the last House, it
has definitely gained Martin, Parkes (from
Hon. Minister Marr), Parramatta, Bendigo,
Corio, Angas and Bass; and it has other
“prospects.” The party increased its. vote
everywhere, and had sweeping majorities in
N. S. Wales and Victoria. The States it
failed to carry are Westralia, which has a
State Labor Government, and Queensland,
which had a State Labor Government till
May.
Nearly all the losses were suffered by the
Nationalists, of both factions; the swing
against the Country party was not nearly
so pronounced. That party will retain 10
seats for certain, with a possibility of 13.
If Bruce goes, Page may be leader of the
Opposition,
The distribution ang political sympathies
of the sexes as shown m the election returns
are interesting. In every Country-party divi-
sion, from Maranoa (Q.) round to Forrest
(W.A.), men are decidedly in the majority.
By contrast, women greatly preponderate in
metropolitan-suburban electorates like Bala-
clava, Ivooyong, Ilcnty, North Sydney, War-
ringah, Wentworth and Lilley, all Nationalist
strongholds. But in typical industrial dis-
tricts, such as Reid, Cook, Newcastle, West
Sydney, Melbourne, Melbourne Ports and
Hindmarsh, the sexes are almost equally
divided.
The experiment of
running a National-
ist and a Cocky
against “Texas”
Green, Labor M.H.R.
for Kalgoorlie, failed,
as in the circum-
stances it was bound
to do. It would take
at least three months
to canvass Kalgoorlie
properly, and opposi-
tion to “Texas” wasn’t
decided upon until the
last week or so. The
smiling Laborite is
lucky, more especi-
ally as he gets all the
benefit of an undemo-
cratic distribution of
seats. There are only
29,734 electors in Kal-
goorlie as against
50,701 in Swan, the
Cocky constituency
alongside, for which
Harry Gregory was
returned unopposed.
“Texas” Green.
It is the astonishing American success
of the “combine,” a harvesting machine
designed and developed in Australia, that
has sent the McKay Co. to Toronto, in
Canada, to build a factory to meet the over-
seas trade. In Canada it hadn’t caught on
as well as it had in Kansas and other west-
ern U.S.A. States until last season; then
a drought, which meant short straw, showed
how valuable the combine is in such crops.
The McKays would have preferred to make
all their goods in Australia; but costs are
too high.
To prepare a Budget that will make ends
meet without arousing too much antagonism
is taxing all the ingenuity of Vic. Premier
McPherson. He has to fade a railway deficit
and do something towards stopping the drift
in soldier-settlement finance; and his interest
bill is increasing all the time. Additional
income and land-tax, a percentage of book-
makers’ takings, a dip into the Titles Office
assurance and Licensing Fund stockings and
one or two other expedients have been sug-
gested. The speech is unlikely to be read
until Oct. 22 or 23.
Prime Minister MacDonald and President
Hoover are reported as sitting under a tree
near the head waters of the Rapidan discuss-
ing things. Two subjects are barred —the
tariff and the intensity with which Uncle
collects his war debts; but there is room for
abundant discourse about naval and other
matters. An impression prevails that if
Hoover gets his own way in everything there
will be little difficulty in reaching an agree-
ment. But Woodrow Wilson got his way in
practically everything when he went to
Europe with his League of Nations device,
and his Senate turned the League down. The
Senate is always anxious to show the aspiring
President that he isn’t a plenipotentiary.
In the last lap of the election race Hughes
supplied a grotesque touch. The Nott party
lrad issued a leaflet saying that Billy wasn’t
an authorised Nationalist, and that he was
endorsed by Labor. Whereupon the enraged
ex-Prime Minister asked a Supreme Court
Judge to suppress the document on the plea
that both statements were untrue. It was
difficult to argue that Hughes was the
genuine National candidate, as the party had
put up Nott against him. It was as hard
.to assert that he wasn’t Labor’s endorsed can-
didate when Scullin and co. had ordered all
solid Laborites to vote for him, and when
the pettish little man had got into a tangled
rage because the unauthorised Banko was
trying to split the Labor vote against him.
The astonished Court postponed the matter
till F’riday, and on Friday the ill-judged
attempt was dropped.
Before the Federal campaign closed a vast
amount of dirty linen was washed in the
Queensland Parliament with the idea of
helping one party or the other. How much
Randolph Bedford, M.L.A., made out of his
Mt. Isa show, how many shares Theodore
had in this and the main Mt. Isa Co., and
who supplied the money offered to (and
rejected by) a Labor member to vote against
Theodore’s Government were among the
questions raised. And while these fiery dis-
cussions were raging, it was sworn in
Supreme Court proceedings that William
McCormack, subsequently Premier, was a
very big shareholder in the syndicate which
sold the Mungana leases to the Labor
Government for £40.000. There is to be a
Royal Commission on this subject and some
of the others.
A regulation that the Queensland Income-
tax Commissioner is to give the Treasurer
such information as he desires has led to
the Moore Government being described as
a subterranean spy. The idea,- it is taken
for granted, is to trace the course of a
number of transactions which led to Queens-
land purchasing and mismanaging enter-
prises of a lamentable sort. The information
is for the Treasurer only (though it will
become public if the matter gets into the
law courts) and he can deal only with State
(not Federal) affairs. Objectors plead that
taxpapers are privileged communications.
But privilege isn’t all it is cracked up to be.
If any local sanctity, especially as against
the Treasury, attaches to an income-tax
paper, the State which gave it has power to
take it away again wholly or so far as the
State thinks necessary.
Another appeal made by the N.S.W.
Premier to the northern coalminers just
before the Federal election was met with
the blank statement that at least last year’s
wages and conditions must be promised
before discussion was resumed. Between
1916 and 1920 the wage for mining
best coal in the Ma State went up three
times, the total rise being within a fraction
of 2s. 6d. per ton. The decision that Is.
reduction on these war rates is out of the
question rests on the theory that wages may
go up without any limit, but must never
come down whether they can be earned or
not. In fact, the question whether they can
be earned or not must not even be discussed.
The Nationalists have a lot to learn
about running elections. It was a mistake
to put up Manning in Wentworth (N.S.W.),
especially as he had retreated from a coun-
try electorate; Rutledge, who was a very
popular Assemblyman, would have been a
much better choice. Also, the neglect to
have an electoral distribution, the need of
which was glaring, might have cost the party
several seats. Kalgoorlie, for instance, con-
tains 21,000 fewer electors than the Agrarian
division of Swan, and adjoins it at a point
where the Cockies polled 3 to 1 last time.
Barton, on the other hand, has 24,000 more
adults than the neighboring Labor pocket-
borough of Cook, and South Sydney has
24,000 more than West Sydney.
Supported by the full Parliamentary con-
tingent, Laborite Tom Houlihan, a Narnar-
goon farmer, is making a big bid for the
Gippslafid West Assembly seat. His oppo-
nents are other agriculturists —M. Bennett, of
Catani, and Reggie James, of Garfield ; Allan’s
Cocky group is helping Bennett, and most
of the McPherson Cabinet are platforming
with James. Speaker Mackey held Gipps-
land West, though not with the present
boundaries, for more than 20 years; when
he died in 1924, Walter (C.P.) < arrived. So
if the past is any guide Labor’s toil will be
in vain. In any case a win for Hogan and
co. would merely hasten the dissolution.
Graham Pratten's
defeat in Martin
(N.S.W.) was one of
the surprises of the
election. Nat. - Fed.
officials nearly fell
down with astonish-
ment when they heard
that the Labor man,
J. C. Eldridge, had
got a 2-to-l vote in
Drummoyne. Prat-
ten’s uncle, the good
Protectionist Minister
whose sudden death
was such a loss to
Australia, was unop-
posed for Martin iti
1922, and was 14,467
ahead of the Labor
man, McDicken (now
an M.L.A.), in 1925.
Apparently the nephew
is a bit too dandiacal
for the electorate’s
taste.
It is definitely an-
nounced that “within
Graham Pratten.
the next few weeks a conference of Railway
Commissioners will be held in Melbourne
or Sydney to discuss engineering reports
regarding the unification of the railway
gauges.” Taking into account all the Gov-
ernment lines of the mainland this is a
problem of reducing the width of 12,908
miles of sft. 3in. and 4ft. 8-Jin. railway,
which will become possible when two or three
millions per annum are made available out
of revenue, or widening 12,235 miles of
narrow-gauge tracks, which would practically
mean the reconstruction of everything at
a cost which would point towards national
bankruptcy. If any official engineer is pre-
pared with a report dealing with the pro-
blem in this spirit it will be an illuminat-
ing document. * Otherwise the word unifi-
cation should be dropped, as a discoursing
through the national hat.
Vic. Uppish H’ouse has passed a bill for
the closing of hotels on Good Friday. Tyner,
who introduced it, wanted the ban extended
to Christmas Day, but the Landlords wouldn t
have that. It remains to be seen what the
Assembly will do with the measure now that
it opens its proceedings with prayer.
Barrister
Maxwell—
in again.
Maxwell, the only re-
volting Nationalist
whose opposition to the
Maritime Industries
Bill looked sincere, got
in again for Fawkner
( Vic.), but Labor obvi-
ously furnished most of
bis votes. The same is
true of Hughes in
North Sydney, Marks
in Wentworth, Stewart
in Wimmera and Mc-
Williams in Franklin —
Clarks especially.
Mann (Perth) and
Groom (Darling
Downs), being opposed
by Labor candidates,
went down on the first
count; and their fate
would assuredly have
been shared by Hughes,
Marks, Maxwell and
Stewart, if not McWil-
liams, if Scullin and
Theodore hadn’t been
kind to these gentlemen.
So kind in the cases of
Marks and Maxwell as
to make them a present
of Labor seats.
As w r ith Poincare in
France, the accession
to power of just-dead
General Tanaka in Nip-
pon always meant an
aggressive foreign policy. He was be-
hind the Jap invasion of Siberia after
the Bolshevik revolution, the launch-
ing of the Twenty-one Demands on China,
the pushing of the Mikado’s influence
into Shantung, and other costly and not
always successful enterprises. The latest
outburst of anti-foreignism in the Celestial
Republic, which brought Britain, America
and Japan together, also put Tanaka back
into the premiership ; but the discovery that
sundry military leaders had been plunging
their hands deep in the nation’s cashbox
proved his undoing.
After five and a half years of office the
Westralian Labor Ministry is preparing for
a general election in March. It may fall,
for the Federal Labor victory will probably
do it more harm than good, but there won’t
be much in it either way. Premier Collier’s
capacity for leadership is generally ad-
mitted, and non-Laborites. have no big
grievance. The Leg. Council is a brake on
extremist essays. Responsible Ministers who
wish to achieve the practicable thank Heaven
on the quiet that there is a Leg. Council.
Auditor-General Norris says there was an
apparent Vic. surplus of £34,751 after de-
duction of a railway loss of £61,191; but
there would have been a deficit of £190,248
had it not been for some juggling with_ an
interest payment of £225,000 from the Sol-
dier Settlement F'und. Norris has surcharged
the McPherson Ministry with the £225,000.
There was a surcharge of £350,000 against
the Hogans in respect of a similar bit of
legerdemain in 1927-28, and Norris is now
awaiting a direction from Parliament re-
garding the total of £575,000.
With its characteristic desire to be pure of
heart and avoid tyranny and oppression the
N.S.W. Ministry is anxious to lose no pos-
sible time in getting rid of the Commissioners
who have done so much to clean up Sydney,
and having elective aldermen again. It may
be good democratic policy, and yet it might
be better if the Ministry devoted itself to
some stringent legislation for the regulation
of banks and insurance concerns. In the list
published for 1927, which is about as far as
the figures have got, there were 17 life-
insurance companies with goodwill items
among their assets, and 13 of these had their
headquarters in N. S. Wales. Time devoted
to putting right this scandal would be well
spent even if, in the consequent pressure of
business, Sydney didn’t recover its aldermen
so soon as it otherwise might.
An honorary welfare-officer at Albury
laments that life is a heart-breaking job
because of the multitudes of men who want
work and can’t get enough to go on with,
the terms of the Piddo rural award being
prohibitive. The mischief that a well-mean-
ing doctrinaire may do is quite surprising.
At one time the motor pilot, returning from
a job with his car empty, was generous in
the way of giving the swagman a lift. Now
be is more apt to put on speed when hailed,
fearing lest the impecunious one may give
him a knockout from behind, preparatory to
going through his pockets. Hunger breeds
ingratitude.
AN AL FRESCO CONFERENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A three hours’ conference between President
Hoover and Prime Minister MacDonald took place
beside the head waters of the Rapidan River,
Virginia, where the pair sat on a log beside a
mountain stream, smoked their pipes and discussed
pertinent matters, with occasional divagations into
the subject of fishing.’’
No Eagle, like the fowl that represents
Columbia, screamed; no British Dion’s
roar
Disturbed that pair of estimable gents.,
Who’d come together methods to explore
For settling quarrels, cutting armaments
And ranging side by side to combat War,
Bull and his Transatlantic vis-a-ms,
Hard Uncle Samuel with his quaint goatee.
With naked hearts, in language plain and
straight.
They spoke, presumably, in that resort —
No need for circumspection in debate
When there were no reporters to report.
And, now and then, from high affairs of
State,
They turned to honest Izaak Walton’s
sport,
Discussing, possibly, the sort of. flies
That trout prefer beneath Virginian skies.
They found a cosy nook in Arcady
And swapped opinions through clouds of
smoke —
What pompous meetings either might decree,
What conferences, stiff with style, con-
voke !
Instead, they sat upon a fallen tree
And had a pitch, like ordinary folk.
World-politics and angling, man to man,
They talked beside the rushing Rapidan.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Poverty
Point
WHAT DID HE WANT TO BRING THAT UP FOR?
“The British Prime Minister has had an extraordinarily cordial reception in the U.S.A. from President Hoover downwards.”
HIRAM G. McSWOGGLE (to Uncle Sam): “’Member how we used to spike bills on that durned old tail, Uncle?"
UNCLE: “Sh-sh-sh! Forget it, boy, forget it—tem-po-rar-ily.”
“Lever de R.”: Was this story suppressed
during a recent theatrical season by the
responsible authorities? According to a Rus-
sian friend in Melbourne, Pavlova was born
in the Victorian Mallee, where her grand-
mother is still living. Having early displayed
her talent, she was taken to Russia when an
infant; but dozens of Mallee residents are
able to remember the little dancing sprite as
clearly as if it were only yesterday.
_ “Mr. Cato”: We were talking of first
nights. “The worst frost I ever appeared
in,” observed Ranter, “was a spy play that
ran for one night in the Shaftesbury. After
the first act some of the audience began to
leave; at the end of the second a whole mob
started out. Then up jumped Herman Swaf-
fler, the most acrid critic in London. Raising
a restraining hand, he shouted loudly, ‘Now,
now, be meh! Women and children first!’”
“Sir Jasper”: Actors and. actorines
ignore press criticisms. They will tell you
so themselves. “Ai nevah read the notices,
they will swear. In the days of the subur-
ban dramatic shows I was in the men s
dressing-room between the acts of “Gouts
and Globules of Gore,” when the perspiring
hero staggered in to change his costume.
He took off the flannel sine qua nons he
was wearing, and in putting on a pair ot
tweed dittos he ripped them from the Plim-
soil line to the vestibule, and had to revert
to the flannels he had worn in the previous
act, three years before. He gritted his teeth
and swmre fluently. “Now,” he said venom-
ously, “the damn Bulletin will have
something to talk about!”
“T.P.”: A glossary presented to each pat-
ron in a leading Melbourne talkie house
explains the Amurkan as she is spoke. In-
ter alia, “fans” are congratulated on “the
opportunity of adding new words to your
vocabulary—words used in the best theatri-
cal circles in U.S.A.” The “raciness, auda-
city and sardonic humor” are impressed
upon the learners, and thus the lesson pro-
ceeds: “The lingerie” (the fair sex) ; “sugar
dandy” (good provider) ; “classy mamma”
(opulent elderlv lady) ; “coffee and cake
jack” (meagre stipend) ; “diamonds” (cracked
ice) ; “five yards” (half as much as
a “grand,” which is one thousand dollars) ;
“needs the do-re-me pretty bad” (could use
extra cash) ; “know one’s goulash” (to be
sophisticated). God help our poor -old
vocabulary!
“8.M.8.”: Jim Sexton’s play “The Riot
Act,” written in 1912 but since modernised
and renamed “Democracy,” is to be produced
in London in December, with a cast com-
posed entirely of members of Parliament.
The 70-year-old playwright (he has four
other plays to his credit) began work at
eight in a glass-factory in Newcastle (Eng.),
where he was born. After four years of that
he shipped before the mast. Afterwards
he was a docker at Liverpool, until an acci-
dent permanently disfigured him. A pioneer
of trade unionism he became general secre-
tary of the Dock Laborers’ Union in 1893.
A quarter of a century ago he was chairman
of the Trades Union Congress, and for the
past 11 years has represented St. Helens at
Westminster.
“Avon”: Recent mention of female Ham-
lets reminds that the opera stage records
some strange substitutions of females in
roles ordinarily managed by the sterner
sek. In 1855 Madam Carandini sang the
tenor parts of Elvino in “Linda” and. Tliad-
deus in “The Bohemian .Girl.” Sara Flower
sang Pollio in “Norma” and Edgardo in
“Lucia.” Madam Carandini also had the
part of Captain Macbeath to her credit, and
so had Lady Don.
“Aix-les-Coogee”: “C. 8.” (B. 2/10/’29)
refers to the huge cost of running a musical
piece like “Show Boat.” A comparison of
costs, however, would indicate that, with
equal takings, a talkie musical play would
cost the Australian entrepreneur more to
run, although his wages list would be meagre.
At utmost the legit, would pay a royalty of
10 per cent, to oversea writers, but the
American side of the talkie outfit would take
50 per cent, of the gross, or more. Thus,
if the talkie manager took £3OOO he would
hand over £l5OO, and out of the other £l5OO
would have to pay his wages, advertising,
rent and all incidental expenses.
“Oshkosh”: Lottie Collins sang “Tarara-
Boom-de-Ay” at the Sydney Tivoli, and the
Salvation Army, which had a lot of zip in
those days, popularised it with the multitude.
But the best song success the Tiv. ever had
was “How-de-do-dee,” which was sung every
night for over 20 weeks. There is no exist-
ing memorial to the author of the ditty
which had as a refrain: —
How-de-doo-dee, how dee-doo-de-doo-dee?
Ho de do dee, how dee-doo-de-do? (and repeat).
“Ayee-em”: P.-C. 49 (J. W. Bickaby),
just dead in London, will go down in Aus-
tralian vaudeville history as the man who
sacrificed his salary of £l5O per week rather
than play a second season in Adelaide, which
hadn’t responded to his humor on the first
visit. “Like taking money for being funny
in a cemetery,” was the way Bickaby put ’
Although his) big success was as P.-C. 49, he
had a funnier ditty about being “the moun-
taineer—not an auctioneer nor a chiffonier;
not the mountain over there, I’m the moun-
taineer.”
“Goldilocks” : Probate of the will of George
Musgrove is to be sought, 13 years after his
death. When ho died his assets were. so
small that it was regarded as waste of time
to seek probate; now American screen-
people want to make a talkie of Belasco's
“Sweet Kitty Bellairs,” and it is necessary
for the will to be proved in order that a
trade in the rights, which Musgrove owned
in full, can be made. Nellie Stewart, who
is executrix as well as chief beneficiary, is
taking action.
“W.T.K.”: “The Bescue,” mentioned by
“Garrick A. 8.” (B. 2/10/’29), is not the
only Conrad story to receive faithful treat-
ment at Hollywood. A film version of “Lord
Jim,” released in Melbourne, kept faithfully
to the book. Percy Marmont, Australia's
old friend, played the name part, and Wallace
Beery portrayed the unscrupulous skipper of
the Patna. Even when faithfully followed,
Conrad makes poor stage or screen stuff,
however. Margaret Bannerman discovered
that in her Australian season.
“Cauboy”: People, who saw the per-
formance of Donizetti’s “Daughter of the
Begiment,” which served as a curtain-raiser
to Fritz Hart’s new opera at Melbourne
Playhouse, are asking why the Firm does
not avail itself of the services of Beatrice
Oakley, who, as Marie, showed herself to
have more voice and appeal than any three
recent importations put together. The
assumption is that every girl with histrionic
ability is dying to display it on the legiti-
mate‘stage, but the fact is that many genuine
artists dislike the professional boards in-
tensely. An actress may be asked to take a
role that is an insult to the intelligence : or
slide about after a piece of soap clad in a
bath-towel. The average legitimate role
fulfils the dreams of an artiste about as
much as reporting for a divorce-court weekly
fulfils the aspirations of a literary stylist.
“F.S.” : “S.T.S.’s” statement (B. 18/9/’29)
that the S.A. Parliament proposes to formally
adopt a local anthem opens memory’s cells.
At the great rally of State-school children
on Montefiore Hill to celebrate Queen Vic-
toria’s jubilee, the air rose in shrill falsetto
from 10,000 juvenile throats. An acute ear,
however, would have detected that the words
sung by many of the innocent lads and lassies
did not follow the version given by “S.T.S.”
There were dozens of parodies in existence
of verses which lent themselves to burlesque,
and some of them were ribald. The one I
and my companions sang began
There is a. land where summer flies
Are clustering round a thousand eyes.
The rest hardly bears repetition.
“M.S.” : W. A. Gibson, who died the other
day, produced the first full-length film in
this country. The subject was, of course,
the Kelly gang, and the incidents were mainly
shot at Mitcham, a suburb outside Melbourne.
An old pub on the White Horse road served
as the Glenrowan Inn, and even in those days
the railway authorities recognised the impor-
tance of the “industry” by allowing the des-
peradoes to shift a few spare rails to convey
the idea that the permanent way was being
torn up. Then a suburban train obligingly
pulled up when the bandits pointed their
pistols at it.
“C.M.”: Hollywood has just produced a
sound film of “The Taming of the Shrew”
with Douglas Fairbanks as Petruchio and
Mary Pickford as Katharina. The play is
attributed to W. Shakspeare, “with additional
dialogue by Sam Taylor.” This achievement
has been more or less capped by the Capitol
Theatre in Melbourne, which recently
announced a performance of Wagner’s “Tann-
hauser,” “in Jan Rubini’s own arrangement.
Rubini is the Capitol’s imported conductor
and the event, it was confidently expected,
would create “considerable stir” in musical
circles in the city.
“L.H.P.”: Gertrude Johnson, one of the
Australian principals in J.C.W.’s English
Opera co. in 1920, is well to the fore in
Fogland. Recently she enacted a fine Ariel
in “The Duke of Milan,” an operatic ver-
sion of “The Tempest.” ITalevy, a French
composer known to Australia by his opera
of “The ,Tewess,” wrote a good opera from
the same play which, in the Italian dress of
“II Tempesta,” was popular abroad. “The
Duke of Milan” was composed by Herman
Brearley, organist of Blackburn Cathedral.
In composition he has followed the style of
Wagner, in using special leading melodies
for the chief characters. Gertie’s father
was George P. Johnson, for years a valued
member of Lyster’s opera co. in Australia,
and a noted Myles in Benedict’s “The Lily
of Killarney.”
THE BARE CUPBOARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The talkies have swept everything before them in
Britain, according to Mr. B. J. Carroll, chiefly
because the world is short of good modern plays.”
The world is short of lots of things,
Including, as you’re all aware,
Radium, thrones for resting kings
And women’s old-style heads of hair.
There are no poets now to wear
Alf Tennyson’s or Swinburne’s bays,
Or even those of Baudelaire —
And no-one writes attractive plays.
Our gold has mostly taken wings
Or rests in Uncle Shylock’s care.
No modern prima donna sings
Like Melba, connoisseurs declare.
Where is Caruso’s compeer? Where?
Who Irving’s shoes to fill essays?
And what’s the chance of getting there
When no one frames inspiring plays?
The world is full of openings
For various birds who’re mighty rare,
Such as the cricketer who swings
Express deliv’ries through the air.
A pug with Slavin to compare
Would set our harbor front ablaze.
Theatrical producers swear,
Louder than all, the cupboard’s bare,
For no one pens good modern plays.
If.S.W.
IFORD.


.BRIGHTEST GEM OF OPERATIC RECORDINGS
"RIGOLETTCT
buofi p,dqn(jr'mv vpnpurfo
would jpp vijßyvjpqp ipyvjwnfa
after critic has awarded the highest honours to this
brilliant piece of composition, and world-famous singers have
all considered it the supreme test of their artistry.
Probably the loveliest recording ever made of this operatic gem is
, announced by Columbia.
04344
fRIGOLETTO (Verdi)
Prelude and Duke’s Song: E I’ami’
(Thou Lov'st Him) La donna e
mobile (Plume in the Summer
Wind). In Italian j
12-INCH LIGHT BLUE LABEL 8/6
Trio: M. Gentile, A. Grandd
and C. Galefli
(IVith Orchestra)
Quartette: Bella figlia dell ’amore
(Fairest Daughter of the Graces)
In Italian
Quartette: M. Gentile,
EbeStigdni, A. Granda and
C. (jnlejfi (IVith Orchestra)
Other Operatic Records of exceptional merit on Columbia
04025
8/6
LUCIA DJ LAMMERMOOR ( c Doni Z etti)
Sextette. In Italian. Sextette -with La Scala Chorus
LA SONNAMBULA (Vellim)
D’un Pensieri. In Italian. Quartette with La Scala Chorus
04026
8/6
fit TROVATOREj
Miserere. (Verdi)
AIDA (Verdi)
Nume custode e
• Vindici. Dueti -with
Chorus. In Italian
02895
6/-
FAUST {Gounod)
Soldiers’ Chorus
La Kermesse
Chorus and Orchestra of
Theatre National de
I’Opera Paris In French
02723
6/
lOTELLO (Verdi)
La Tempesta
■s Fuoco di Gioia
ILti Scala Chorus of Milan
In Italian
U 2843
6 /•
rFAUST (Gounod)
J Church Scene
I Duet with Charm
* In French
%IGOLETTO
aACT 111
Three Complete
Operas on
COLUMBIA
CAVALLERIA
RUSTICANA (English)
PAGLIACCI (English)
CARMEN ( French)
Columbia
/ ELECTRIC RECORDING - WITHOUT SCRATCH.
MAGIC NOTES
TRAOE MARKi
4 Always
use
Columbia.
sVeedles
OBTAINABLE AT ALL MUSIC STORES
COLUMBIA STANDS FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF MUSIC
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Grafonola, Ltd., 39 Liverpool street, Sydney.
VIC.: Columbia Distributors (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 300 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
QUEENSLAND: King & King, Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane.
A. E. Harrold, 123-125 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
W.A.: Phonographs, Ltd., 671 Hay Street, Perth.
S.A.: South Australian Phonograph Co., Ltd., Gilbert Buildings, Gilbert Place, Adelaida*
TAS.: Columbia Supplies (Tas.) Pty., Ltd., Launceston, Hobart and BUl'tlie.


sd
FIRST
AID
OUTFIT
In Pigskin Case.
ALL who motor should have one—be
prepared—you never know. It con-
tains CHLORO-lODINE, the improved
lodine preparation—it neither “STINGS”
nor “STAINS” the flesh and is non-
poisonous—stops bleeding—soothes and
cleanses. Keep the outfit handy in the
car pocket.
15/6
complete
as above.
Rothwells Outfitting
LTD
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Tlie largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadiields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and l Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Foundries S Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch ( 422 Collins Street. Melbourne, Vic.
Office i T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Dr. Dick Sly—always Dr. Dick to distin-
guish him from his learned brother, Dr.
George—died at the week-end, aged 80. Dr.
Dick went to the Bar and became a N.S.W.
Supreme Court Judge ; George preferred to
remain on the lower branch of the tree and
founded the firm of Sly and Russell. There
was never a more popular member of the
Sydney Bench and never a more respected
Judge than Dr. Dick. And very few sounder
lawyers—or worse speakers. It was of him
that a learned brother remarked to another
learned brother when a knotty point arose:
“Let’s ask Sly. He’s bound to be right,
though he won’t be able to toil us ’why.”
A Sydney Labor politician wffio has had
cruel luck is Bobby O’Halloran, of the clerks’
union. An Assemblyman for years, he took
the anti-Lang side in the last faction fight,
and was punished by being deprived of the
party nomination for Woollahra. He sport-
ingly took the platform for his conqueror,
O’Sullivan, and in the same spirit tackled
Wally Marks in Wentworth at the ensuing
Federal election. Wentworth was then
thought to be impregnable, but O’Halloran
showed that it wasn’t by getting 18,539 votes.
With Labor in the boom, the Nationalists
split and 6168 more electors .enrolled,
O’Halloran could have won the seat by a
good majority; but the luckless fellow had
to stand down and advise his supporters to
vote for Marks. They furnished that gentle-
man with four-fifths of his total and put
him in.
J. 11. C. Sleeman, whose connection with
an unsuccessful attempt to seduce a Queens-
land Labor M.L.A. (now a Judge) from his
party allegiance was exhumed last week as
some sort of Federal-election propaganda, is a
Victorian by birth who spent many years on
the Westralian goldfields. He was an engine-
driver on the Sons of Gwalia mine when he
decided to forsake that calling for journal-
ism; the Kalgoorlie Sun gave him his first
billet in 1911. During the war he did home-
service work in Perth, and later cropped up
in Queensland as editor of the Brisbane Sun.
The launching of Beckett’s Budget with
its kindred enterprises brought Sleeman to
Sydney to broaden his acquaintance with the
libel laws; an attack on Tom Mutch, M.L.A.,
was destined to prove about the most costly
piece of invective ever printed in Australia.
Labor-member G. POLLOCK, one of the
four who incurred the wrath of the.
Queensland Speaker by displaying a
placard in the House. They refused to
remove it and were suspended for one
week.
When Rear-Admiral Evans called at the
pubiicoffices in Melbourne to pay his respects
to Chief-Sec. Argyle, as deputy for Premier
McPherson, he was shown round by a senior
official. On the way out he breezily invited
the official to come aboard the Australia and
have a cocktail any time he liked. Fellow-
officers within hearing chuckled as they
heard the invited one mumble his thanks—•
he_ is the strictest total abstainer in the
building.
unanimous vote of the City Council
Harold Luxton has been made Lud Mayor
of Melbourne for the second time. Like Pre-
mier McPherson, he is in the hardware trade,
and can give little attention to his business
while in office. Both are fortunate in hav-
ing trained and reliable deputies to run their
establishments.
A quaint ceremony was revived when Lud
Mayor Luxton was re-elected. Under a law
of 1842 such a ballot must take an hour
to complete, a burning candle acting as the
timekeeper. The notion was that in those
early days even the most conscientious aider-
man might be late for an appointment
through being held up by a flood or chased
by an abo. In this case there was only one
candidate, and the absent bumbles had
advised the Town Clerk of their proposed
non-attendance. Nevertheless, those present
sat solemnly round the table and watched
the candle gutter into extinction before
Alderman Gardiner announced the result.
In their stout fight for life, Charlie Pratt
and Jim Guthrie, whose Moth machine
crashed near Baandee (W.A.) just when it
seemed certain to win the Sydney-Perth air
race, have had the help of a
surgeon in Dr. Hadley. Placing his services
at the disposal of the centenary committee,
Hadley speeded to the remote spot in a
’plane, and before the day was done had
performed an operation that brought Senator
Guthrie’s son back from the brink of the
grave. A modest Englishman, who prefers
to be known as “Mr.” Hadley, he arrived in
Perth not long before the war and sopn
worked up a big practice. Westralian Dig-
gers bear enthusiastic testimony to the work
he has unobtrusively done for them.
Dr. Ross, Vicar-Apostolic of Hiroshima.
Japan, who is holidaying at Riverview Col-
lege, Sydney, is unique among churchmen in
being a Jesuit bishop. Born in _ Germany,
he was at Stonyhurst, the Jesuit English
college, for some years. In his diocese is the
well by which Francis Xavier sat 300 years
ago and prayed for the conversion of Japan.
The Japanese have erected a cross beside it
to commemorate Francis, not as a saint, but
as the forerunner of western civilisation.
Among things that have come to an end
with the Labor regime in Queensland is the
term as London agent of John Huxham, and
the old man has returned. He held the job
for five years, prior to which he was in the
Ryan-Theodore Ministry for eight years and
in the Assembly for eleven years. A well-
to-do business man, he was able to show his
sympathy for Labor in ways other than
political service. He helped to found the
Daily Standard.
James Hay, the Salvation Army Commis-
sioner in Maoriland, who took a prominent
part in the deposition of Bramwell Booth,
has been transferred to Canada, where he
will administer the Eastern District, with
headquarters at Toronto. In a farewell
address in Christchurch he told some stories
of William Booth, and said the Army has
never had a man who was a patch on him.
William Henry Sharp, who was M.L.A.
for Redfern in the 15th N.S.W. Parliament
(1891-94), died the other day, at 85. Friend
of George Grey, Protectionist and valiant
fio-hter for the one-man-one-vote principle,
Sharp generally voted with the just-arrived
Labor party, but would not sign the pledge.
Redfern was a multiple electorate in those
days, and one of Sharp’s fellow-members
was Jimmy McGowan, afterwards Labor
Premier. McGowan was in the next Parlia-
ment, but Sharp never got back.
Senior-detective R. P. Brennan, who was
on special service with the A.I.F. overseas,
has just retired from the Vic. C. 1.8. His
burly form was familiar in Horseferry-road,
and bad characters who got into khaki found
him implacable unless they behaved. He it
was who broke up “the Kelly gang,” a terror
to benighted Diggers returning to billets
alone.
Sydney folk, with the exception, perhaps,
of habitues of the dock at the Central,
will regret the retirement of Superintendent
G. A. Mitchell. A brother of the ex-Commis-
sioner, he joined up at 19, and walked his
first beat 'in the still lively division of
Darlinghurst. Twelve years’ service as
prosecutor at the Central Court was followed
by an inspectorship; promotion to the Met-
ropolitan job came when W. H. Childs was
appointed Acting Commissioner. The Mit-
chell boys were Aberdonians.
Colonel Tylden Wright, of the Queen’s Own
Hussars, has been touring the Common-
wealth sizing up the opportunities it offers
for veterans of his regiment, and pronounces
them favorable. He found that not a few
officers and other ranks of the Third have
dug in well. Australia owes a good deal to
her military immigrants of the past, Queens-
land in particular. Many men who left the
British service and that of John Company
settled in the north-eastern State, as the
names of a hundred stations and farms
attest.
Henry Ulick Lascelles, who died the other
day in Yorkshire, was the fifth Earl of Hare-
wood and about the most modest peer in
Britain, though his son and heir married
Princess Mary. The Lascelles family led a
comparatively obscure fox-hunting life in the
West Riding of Yorkshire until the younger
Pitt wished a peerage on them in 179(i,
when his Government badly wanted the votes
swung by the Squire of Harewood. One of
the late earl’s aunts was the mother of
Colonel Wynyard, whose name is commemo-
rated in more than one Sydney street.
Bob Stout, Maoriland’s former Premier
and Chief Justice, had his SStli birthday
the other day, and the Leg. Council, of
which lie is a member, offered congratula-
tions. Dressed in sober black, with snow-
white beard and thatch, he treads the streets
of Dunedin as briskly as ever. He made
headway in law and politics against two
big handicaps—lie’s a prohibitionist and an
ROBERT STOUT, Maoriland’s G.O.M.
agnostic—but, as Jock McKenzie said of
him, lie’s a “bonny fechter.” A moralist of
the old sententious school, he, nevertheless,
used, when on the Bench, to display a philo-
sophic appreciation of the fine points of
commercial villainy; he would sit smiling and
rubbing his hands as some tale of deeply-
plotted rascality was laid before him. The
veteran does a good deal of writing for
learned magazines on philosophical and
scientific topics, and when H. C. Wells pub-
lished the “Outline of History” wrote to
him to correct an error in anthropology, re-
ceiving a reply as rude as it was curt. The
old Judge’s authority in such matters is more
respected in more erudite quarters.
Twice at least during his campaign the
Prime Minister was refused a hearing. First
time was in Wentworth, where Wally
Marks’s supporters got to him. Later his
meeting at Prahran (Vic.) went forward to
a continual roar of interruptions, so, as he had
done in Wentworth, the Priminister ignored
his immediate and unappreciative audience,
stepped tip to the microphone and imper-
turbably said what he had to say into the ear
of the ether. The effect as far as radio
listeners were concerned was excellent. Every
word could be distinctly heard, and the
muffled accompaniment in the bass of the
shrieks and yells of the interjectors gave his
utterance the same fulness and dignity which
a well-conducted orchestra gives to a concert
singer.
Jim Clark, Country-Nat. candidate for
the Burke (Q.) by-election—Arthur Jones,
A.W.U district secretary, is the Labor man
• —is a Maryborough native; his people were
Atherton Tableland pioneers. He was a
front-rank footballer before a greater game
called him, and, like so many other foot-
ballers, he proved a stout soidier. Burke
has hitherto been a safe Labor seat, but
Clark and his friends have high hopes.
John (“Red Jack”) McDonald, a famous
old Victorian stockman, is dead. A great
horseman, he owned, trained and rode scores
of successful racers, amongst others Domino,
winner of the Caulfield Grand National;
Oriel, Signal and Glendower, besides Flirt
and Desmond, the show jumpers. Last year
at Tallangatta “Red Jack” divided first prize
for 'the best male rider—and he was 72
then. At Wangaratta some years ago, when
young riders refused to take a high jump
bareback, the old overlander did it on Flirt
minus even a headstall.
T. PI. Davies, who succeeds Allan Guy as
Assembly member for Bass, is a much-travel-
led Tasmanian. From the Launceston Pligh
School he went to the Ballarat School of
Mines, and from there to Kalgoorlie, where
lie practised as consulting chemist and metal-
lurgist. Research work in America, Asia and
Europe followed; then he served in the
British Army for the duration of the Ger-
man War, first as full private and then as
poison-gas expert in the Royal Engineers.
He next became chief chemical adviser to
the Anglo-French forces in North Russia,
inventing the first gas-bomb used against the
Bolos. Davies was a major when he left
the army in 1921; he is now a sheep-farmer.
William Bremner Carmichael, who lately
died while on one of his travels abroad, left
behind him an unexpected £130,000; and,
among a score of benefiting charities, the
Burnside Homes, at Parramatta, founded by
that great man James Burns, will get £5OOO.
The fortune was a quarter-century in the
making, and came out of newsprint (paper)
and the linotype—the marvellous typeset-
ting machine. In his earlier years Carmi-
chael was a newspaper worker, and climbed
up as far as a manager’s chair in Brisbane ;
then he came south, failed at first as a
paper-merchant, but, helped greatly by Mark
Sheldon, made good rapidly afterwards. The
Merganthaler machines, of which there are
about 1200 in N. S. Wales alone, must have
been a little goldmine. Carmichael and Co.,
Ltd., held the Australian agency.
Dr. Argyle has been given a good deal of
credit, and deservedly so, for piloting the
Racing Restriction Bill through Vic. Assem-
bly, but the devilling was done for him by
Chapman and Parker, two of his officers.
Parker’s knowledge of detail wop the admira-
tion of the Upper House Select Committee,
and Chapman has a fine appreciation of
what is possible politically, as well as l what
is desirable morally and departmentally.
With such helpers it was no wonder Argyle
scored.
Ernest Blackwell, the Macquarie-street
dentist who died a few days ago, came to Aus-
tralia originally as private secretary to a tre-
mendously boomed evangelist of the ’eighties.
He picked Blackwell up from a Blackpool
paper, where the young man was earning
much less than £lOO,OOO a year. After they
had girdled the earth the old-time Pussyfoot
look Blackwell to the south of France, where
he had the comfortable job of writing the
great man’s memoirs. But the young man
had seen enough of Australia to want more,
so as soon as the memoirs were finished he
returned to Sydney; also he had seen enough
of journalism to want something else, so
he took to dentistry, and made a great suc-
cess of it. But he never ceased to take an
interest in literature and art.
Under the Vic. Superannuation Act, the
widow of Dr. J. A. Leach, assistant chief in-
spector of State primary schools, gets a pen-
sion of £3 a week. It looks very small, but the
doctor paid into the fund for no more than
three years and nine months. He left a
few thousands besides, having _ done pretty
well out of some of his publications, particu-
larly his “Bird Book” and his geography
series.
The Bulletin of Oct. 30 will be a David
McKee Wright number. It will contain, in
addition to all the usual features, a hitherto
unpublished story, “The Crown of the
Revolution,” a charming tale told with all
Mr. Wright’s graces of style; “Wings,” a
beautifurpiece of serious verse: a fine poem
written for the anniversary of the day on
which Magna Charta was signed ; several of
those fantastic things which he handled so
delightfully-; a hitherto unpublished cari-
cature of the poet by David Low; and on
the Red Page an estimate of Mr. Wright’s
work, with some further examples of it.
BISHOP
CROTTY, of
Bathurst (N. S.
Wales), who de-
livered a striking
sermon in his
Cathedral on the
degradation of
party politics. If,
he said, they
knew the first
word of what
democracy meant
they would pass
from their
churches and
their altars to
their polling
booths to record
their votes; “but
the way of the
polling booth to-
day lay not past
the altar, but past
the muck heap of abuse and recrimination,
screaming from party platforms, and tur-
bulent collisions of embarrassed demagogues
who were jostling out all real statesman-
ship and leadership.”
Judge Wasley, of Vie. County Court, who
has been acting as a Supreme Court Justice
for two years, is to carry on till August 31
next year. Justice Cussen will go on leave
for 10 months from Nov. 1. The difference
between the salary of a County Court Judge
and a Supreme Court Judge is £750 (£2500
as compared with £1750), but if the Minis-
try’s proposed bill is passed the S.O. wigs
will get £5OO a year more.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Sixenate”: Sydney’s latest divorce suit,
in which a former petitioning husband is the
co-re., whilst the present petitioner was the
co-re. on the first occasion, is far from being
a record in tangled matrimonial relations.
MILITARY TERMS.
TOMMY (watching soldiers marching into St. Mary’s on Church Parade): “Is that
what daddy calls Mass Formation, Mummy?”
In a case of several years ago a bewildered
Judge learned that the lady had been pre-
viously associated with three, divorce suits;
in one she was petitioner, in another the
respondent, and in the third she figured as
co-respondent in a suit brought against the
husband she had originally divorced. On
her fourth appearance both her previous hus-
bands and a third man were joined as co-
res., and the third man valiantly informed the
Court that he was perfectly prepared to
marry her if she was free. Considering her
partiality for ex-husbands, he was certainly
taking a risk.
* * * *
“Selma”: I noticed them walking down
to the surf, the meek-looking little man and
the large lady in the scarlet bathing-suit.
In the breakers they separated, she a con-
spicuous object farther out than he ventured,
while he seemed constantly to peer short-
sightedly seawards to assure himself that all
was well with her. Presently he left the
surf in great agitation, and panted up to
two lifesavers. “Help,” he gasped, “my
wife’s been carried out!” Everybody stared
at the sea, but there was no sign of anyone
in distress beyond the unusually placid
breakers. Then the explanation of the little
man’s perturbation became apparent. Just
beyond the surf there swung a large, red,
dancing buoy. The crowd were reassuringly
explaining what it was when the lady
emerged from the surf-shed and demanded
the cause of the commotion. His quavering
story met with no sympathy. “Come home,
George,” she said briefly, “you always were
a fool!”
# * *
“Vcrri”: There is good ground for the
reputation of Russians as the world’s best
linguists. Recently two young girls who
had lived most of their childhood in Petro-
grad arrived in Sydney with sundry relatives
and connections. They would speak Rus-
sian to their father, French to their mother,
German to a brother-in-law, English to Syd-
ney visitors and Spanish to a cousin from
Paraguay. Further, they could sing in
Italian, and as they had been brought out
of Russia by way of Siberia and the Far
East, they knew something of Chinese. At
present there is a young Esthonian in a
N.S.W. country town teaching French, Ger-
man, Italian and Russian, in addition to
playing at the pictures, and she is just 16!
4 ❖ 4
“Selma”: I once knew a Sydney flapper
who cherished a hopeless passion for a popu-
lar young medico. The damsel had it so
badly that nearly every day she sought a
public telephone at an hour when her idol
was likely to be home, and requested a word
with him. Having nothing to say to the
young man, who had never betrayed the
least interest in her, she waited only to hear
his voice, and then hung up gently and
faded away, having had the meagre com-
fort of at least hearing him say “Hello!”
Years later, when she had entirely got over
her infatuation and married a solicitor, she
told the doctor the story of her devotion.
“Was it you?” said the doctor. “I always
felt convinced I was losing dozens of wealthy
patients, and, as I wanted them badly iii
those days, I used to storm at Central for
the faulty connection that caused me to
lose so much- cash !”
* :[: * *
“Champion Bay”: The most touching
exhibition of gratitude I have ever seen given
by an acquitted man came from a Syrian
hawker. He had been indicted on a rather
serious charge, and had the case against him
been presented with a little more care or
less slovenliness he would have had a poor
chance of getting off, for he was without
legal assistance. However, a tolerant or
tired jury gave him the benefit of whatever
fragment of doubt may have existed, and
within two seconds he was out of the dock
and across the courthouse, expressing his
obligations to the good men and true,
Though a foreigner he had evidently acquired
something of Australian customs. “Goot
friends, I hope you all cumanavadrink
with me.” was the formula in which
hi.s bursting thankfulness found vent. The
Judge tried to look as if he hadn’t
heard, and some of the jury tried to look
insulted, and others grinned, and a shocked-
looking constable sought to hustle the
hawker out before lie did further violence
to the popular conception of British justice,
It was the press-box that supplied the only
spoken comment. “Never mind the jury,
sliout for the Crown Prosecutor.” the lucky
man was cynically advised.
LOST EIGHT.
THE LATE ONE: “And when I got in they were playing the
Ninth Symphony.”
HER FRIEND: “How annoying to have missed so many."
“Meteren”: Going into Polygon Wood
with a sandbagged rum-jar dangling down
over my chest, balanced by another bag full
of bully-beef belting my anatomy at the
rear, a hefty fragment of a coalbox-burst
picked on the rum-jar. The fact that only
the demijohn had saved me from a whack
that would have ended further interest in
the war was ignored by the cursing fatigue
party who dragged me to my feet to save
in mess-tins some of the precious fluid. As
one thirsty soul put it, I orter known better
and turned me flamin’ back and saved the
rum. What might have happened to the
flamin’ tucker was of infinitely less con-
sequence.
* * * *
“Sandgroper”: Rottnest Island, off Fre-
mantle, has been put to divers uses during
Westralia’s century of
settlement. For the first
60 years it was mostly a
prison, a sort of natural
penitentiary particularly
adapted for native convicts
who 'could be turned loose
for one day a week with-
out any fear of their get-
ting away. Finally it
struck someone in autho-
rity that the real destiny
of the island was to be a
pleasure resort, and, by
way of a start, a vice-regal
residence was built there.
But no Governor ever set
much store on the seaside
castle except old “Bos’n”
Bedford, who used to stride
about the beach with a
telescope under his arm,
like Billy Bones in “Trea-
sure Island.” So the struc-
ture gradually fell into
disrepair, and its degenera-
tion was completed when
enemy prisoners were con-
fined there during the war.
The island’s progress was
arrested, too, for the in-
ternees did an infinity of
damage before they were
removed to Liverpool
(N.S.W.). Since then
Rottnest has been endeav-
oring to escape from its
grim past, and to provide
attractions for summer
holiday-makers. There are
salt lakes on the island,
frequented by snipe in
winter-time. The shooting
of these is reserved by an
old enactment for the Gov-
ernor and Ministers of the
Crown, but it is long since
either a Governor or a
Minister fancied himself
with a fowling-piece, so
the birds go unmolested.
“Strict Veg.”: Is the race less hardy?
An old gentleman of 75 was recently found
at the bottom of a mine-shaft at Inglewood,
Victoria-. He had been down there five and
a half days without food and water, and he
angrily protested when the rescuing con-
stable wanted to take him to a hospital.
* $ 4 $
“Pawang”: A tremendous fuss was made
in Melbourne not long ago when a family
was found to be harboring an abo. girl suffer-
ing from leprosy. There was talk of intern-
ing all possible contacts, and some earnest
ones even advocated demolishing the house.
The superstition about the excessively con-
tagious nature of the disease has been handed
down from the remote times when afflicted
persons were obliged to carry a bell and
shout “Unclean!” as they tottered through
the market-place. Modern research is making
short work of such delusions. Recently, the
authorities of the lazarette at Kuala Lumpur,
Malay States, distributed 50 pieces of paper
amongst the inmates, which they handled for
a fortnight. They were then collected and
subjected to rigorous tests, the reaction in
all cases being negative. This has resulted
in some loosening of the rules with regard
to isolation—previous to the test the patients
were not even allowed to send sterilised
letters to their relatives. A similar prejudice
concerning the tuberculous is also dying,
Estate-agents at Heidelberg (Vic.) always
claimed that the presence of the Austin Hos-
pital accounted for one of the most attractive
suburbs round Melbourne being, until re-
cently, mainly composed of grazing paddocks,
Now that the pathologists have announced
that practically every one of us harbors the
tubercle bacillus, Heidelberg is “going ahead”
rapidly.
* * * *
“Medicurse” : Veronal, the easily obtainable
drug which is so often used for sleeplessness,
has dangers which have only recently been
tracked down. The veronal-taker, after a
dose, is liable to forget completely that he
took the dose. So, on hopping into bed, he
says, “Ah, I forgot my veronal,” and takes
another whack; without being aware of it
he may repeat the process several times in
one night. This may lead to a verdict indi-
cating suicide when the victim had no such
intention. The sale of dangerous drugs is
still a long way from being surrounded with
proper safeguards.
* * * *
“P.X.” : Billy Hughes’s quaint appearance
and disregard for conventions of manner and
speech had a lot to do with the fact that
for a long while the little man made scarcely
any headway with his own crowd in Parlia-
ment. That early Labor party was almost
as rigidly respectable as a Baptist pulpit.
Joe Cook had been a local preacher at Lith-
gow; Jim McGowan was for a generation
Sunday-school superintendent; Josiah
Thomas was a Methodist local preacher, too
—and they were fair types. There were a
few men with ruder manners from the
Shearers’ Union; but never was a gentler-
mannered man than old W. G. Spence, who
organised that body and later turned it into
the A.W.U. The first Federal Labor party
was much the same, or more so —which
explains why that most courteous gentle-
man, J. C. Watson, was chosen as its
leader. At the party’s very first meeting
Tatt.’s was mentioned, and the more or less
informal meeting swung off on to gambling—
members who had never met one another
before were trying to get one another’s mea-
sure. “Gad, I thought I’d struck a Metho-
dist class-meeting!” a Queenslander, long
since dead, confided afterwards. But there
were some lifelong friendships made that
great day.
* * * *
“Right U. R.”: Big Sam, shearers’ cook,
had been on a bender in Longreach (Q.)
and had arrived at the stage when he yearned
to fight somebody or other. Staggering out
of the bar, where his challenges went un-
regarded, he espied a John Hop in the offing
and cheerfully threw his coat into the gutter
as a gage of battle. But the officer was a
hefty youth, fresh from the Roma-street
training depot and only too ready to try out
some of the holds he had learned, and very
soon he was marching his prisoner to the
local police station. “Where’s me coat?” de-
manded Sam when he had been lodged in a
cell, and his captor obligingly offered to re-
turn and retrieve it. In half an hour lie
was back with the garment and threw it to
Sam, telling him he had impounded 4s. 6d.
which he had found. “Damn the four and
six,” said the captive, and dived into the
handkerchief-pocket, from which he extracted
a wad of 160 notes. Spielers and race-
course parasites had been gazing unin-
terestedly at that coat from adjacent ver-
andah posts ever since it was discarded.
* * * *
“Nicklin”: Some weddings are more inter-
esting than others. At a recent ceremony
in Queensland the bride, walking down the
aisle from the altar, made a palpable hit
by ordering an enthusiastic admirer to “get
off my train.”
* * * *
“The Hippogryph” : The tearing down of
the solid iron fagade of Cole’s Book Arcade
in Melbourne recalls that early Victoria
secured quite a number of these iron sections
of buildings, parts of the London Crystal
Palace Exhibition structure, which were sold
when that wonder of iron and glazing was
dismantled. Several of the sections went to
Geelong (Vic.), where they became stores,
shops and private dwellings. The castings
tended to the ornate, with-Byzantine touches,
and such as remain are conspicuous anoma-
lies amid modern brick and concrete-dressed
buildings.
ALL TILE NEWS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The recent .cold weather delayed the wattle con-
siderably in this district, but with a continuance of
the present spring-like conditions the valley should
be a mass of blossom within the next few days.”
—Complete news-budget from Cockatoo in Argus
country correspondence.
Way for the news! The wires are humming
With urgent word of the ends of earth—
A war-god in the East is drumming,
A Duce’s wife has given birth ;
Some pundit startles with strange teaching;
A fortune’s won upon a horse;
This prelate’s over-boldly preaching;
That dashing actress seeks divorce.
Way for the news! The world is booming—
And at Cockatoo the wattle’s blooming.
Here comes the news! The spark is spitting
Its message into troubled space—
The Sex-Reforming League is sitting;
Six miles a minute wins the race;
The naked back’s the newest fashion,
Milady’s hair may grow again;
That murder was a crime of passion;
This suicide was judged insane.
The price of beer once more they’re raising—
And at Cockatoo the avattle’s blazing.
Hark to the news! The hungry presses
Are feeding fast—boy golfer wins;
Court lady luridly confesses
Society’s intriguing sins;
Divorcee wedded to a bruiser;
On flappers bishop is severe;
Disarmament; another cruiser ;
The rush election’s drawing near;
Our morals, modern versus olden —
And at Cockatoo the wattle’s golden.
Way for the news ! And now I wonder
To find, as sudden fancy glows,
How faint the unimportant thunder
Of each impressive item grows.
Until (such is my foolish dreaming)
The leaded type grotesquely pales,
And giants take a midget seeming
Where a perspective new prevails,
With one small par tremendous looming—
At Cockatoo the wattle’s blooming.
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


“Coot”: There is a story of a boy who
rushed into a shop and asked for a billet
as errand-lad; being told that the store-
keeper didn’t want one, he countered with,
“Yes, you do; yours has just been run over.”
A man—who may have been the boy grown-
up—called at the inquiry office of the Mel-
bourne Police Headquarters the other morn-
ing, and, asked his business, said simply:
“A liftman was shot last night. Do you
know where he worked.” “Why do you
want to know?” asked the sergeant a trifle
suspiciously. “I want to see if I can get
Ms job,” explained the visitor.
4 4 4 4
“Sailor Quack”: H.M.A.S. Psyche was a
lucky ship. From 1915 to 1917 she poked
her nose into half of the malaria-stricken
creeks and rivers in the Far East, and never
had a single case of fever, although other
craft, including H.M.A.S. Fantome, suffered
YOU’LL SEE WHAT’S IN THIS ALL RIGHT.
“How do you like my new party frock, Billy?”
“One couldn’t wish to see you better, darling!”
severely. But her biggest stroke of good
fortune may be judged from an entry in the
log of Captain Donaldson on the Wolf, re-
cording that on September 3, 1917, a fine
moonlight night, the Wolf w T as steaming up
Karimata Straits, no lights showing. Sud-
denly a suspicious-looking craft was sighted
and the alarm-bells went. Two 22in. torpedoes
were ready to be launched at her in case
she should disclose her identity by signalling,
but Captain Nerger’s luck held good—the
Psyche passed the Wolf within three miles
and went her way, little realising that a
German raider and mine-layer had slipped
by on such a clear night. The entry in
the Psyche’s log on the same night read:
“Running down Karimata Straits. Clear
moonlight night, cool breeze. Passed three
large merchant ships.”
* * 4 4
“Rara Avis”: The postage stamp that
marks the centenary of Westralia is a re-
minder that the erstwhile Swan River settle-
ment collared a particularly distinctive and
arresting emblem for its own before any
other part of Australia could put in a claim.
But although the birds which gave the river
its name were plentiful enough up to 20
or 30 years ago, the changed conditions have
since driven them away from their old
haunts, and many a Swansider gets his
first glimpse of Cygnus niger in a zoo.
4 * * *
“Medicurse”: You will often see grateful
casualty patients bringing in bunches of
flowers for some nurse at a big hospital,
but the cas. surgeon receives a more
extensive assortment of tributes. I know
of one w T ho during three months on the
job has been enriched by one bull-pup with
pedigree, a rock-melon, a dozen new-laid duck
eggs, a bag of oysters, four bottles of beer
(from a grateful washout who was deter-
mined to reform), an old volume of surgery*
(family heirloom), a bucket of tomatoes, a
photo of the twins (one of whom he dis-
possessed of his appendix) and a dozen gall-
stones in a bottle.
4 4 4 4
“Bouragi”: The converted heathen of the
South Seas are as staunch as the old Coven-
anters in standing by Biblical authority.
A friend of mine was for years a mis-
sionary in Papua. A very stout man, he
found difficulty in getting about his rough
vineyard, and for a long time his obedient
flock were accustomed to carry him in a
hammock. One hot day, when half-way
through a trying journey, his bearers went
into conference as he was lunching. Pre-
sently the head boy arrived with the
announcement that a committee had been
investigating the New Testament to find out
if the Redeemer had been accustomed to
travel in a hammock or walk. No reference
to the former mode of progression could be
found, so in future the Taparora would either
have to walk or stay where he was.
4 * 4 4
“Lao-dah”: Vic. probate officials recently
had to consider a will by which an aged
Celestial divided his property between two
living wives, the one residing in Australia
and the other in China. The dead gentle-
man was a sturdy conservative, whereas
most Australian Chinese have accepted the
monogamist ideas of their Caucasian fellovr-
citizens. Even in purely Chinese communi-
ties Western ideas of matrimony are gain-
ing ground. Nevertheless it is a delusion
to imagine that polygamy is distasteful to the
general run of Asiatic women. When an
Asiatic wife reaches a mature age she is
more likely to be pleased than not when
her husband takes unto himself a new mate.
For her it means another strong, young and
cheap domestic servant in the house.
4 4 4 4
“Wingella”: The Lands Department in
Darwin struggles on as best it can
with out-of-date maps and charts, some
of them dating back to pre-Federation days;
and the Malays who man most of the pearl-
ing luggers in the North have charts that
were compiled by Matthew Flinders and by
Commander Stokes, of the Beagle. I had a
look at one of the charts once, when on
a trip down the coast. It was sprinkled
all over with “Probably shoal water, 1S01”;
“Sandbank here, 1S05” ; “Coral reef, awash
at high tide, 1824”; and other equally
archaic pronouncements. “This chart no
good,” I said to the skipper. “O’ course, no
good,” he agreed; “but Gov’ment talk all
skipper buyum. My buyum all right, then
sliuttum up longa box, no more look longa
him. Him good for give money longa Gov’-
ment, no good for skipper.”
4 4 4 4
“Murkah”: Broadcasters occasionally mix
their programmes infelicitously. During the
King’s illness nearly a year ago the daily
bulletin from Buckingham Palace was fol-
lowed, after a few seconds’ interval, by the
announcement that the next item would be a
number by the Studio Quartette entitled
“Massa’s in the Cold, Cold Ground.” Quite
recently a Hughes political outburst was
further gingered up by a dog-fight. No dog-
fight has ever been enjoyed by so many
people. A year ago an election speech was
punctuated by a curious thud, and it was
announced that a baby had fallen from a
chair. It is testimony to the recent strides
THE WORD.
ALPHONSE: “You are supairb. You are ex-quisee t— divine! You are ze woman of my
dreams—my heart’s desire! I lay myself at your feet! Any tings I weel do
for you! Any tings! You but speak ze word!”
ELIZABETH: “Gee!”
made by science that the baby’s fall was
heard in Suva. For an hour afterwards the
’phone was kept busy informing anxious
inquirers that the infant wasn’t hurt.
»l»
“R. Volt”: I am surprised to learn from
“P.M.” (B. 2/10/’29) that flying officers,
although obliged to qualify in wireless, may
be quite unable to read a landline sounder
because its note is slightly different from a
buzzer. If this is so, the standard set for
the air arm must be a very elementary one.
A really proficient sound-reader can decipher
Morse in almost any shape or form. He
can even read a cable-recorder key, in which
the dash is the same length as the dot, pro-
vided there is the slightest variation in the
note set up by either lever. I once saw a
crook in an Edgar Wallace mystery-play
Morse a message to an accomplice by tap-
ping with a spoon on a saucer in a cafe.
This would present no difficulties to an ex-
pert sound-reader.
“Relay”: “P.M.” is quite right in his con-
tention that a wireless Morse operator may
not be able to read similar signals coming
through a telegraph sounder. I hold a
first-class certificate for both land and
wireless telegraphy, the former having been
obtained before the latter was introduced into
Australia. There is undoubtedly a difference
in the sound of signals emitted by (a) a
“buzzer,’’ (b) a wireless transmitter 'and
(c) a sounder. My experience is that any
good land operator has no difficulty in train-
ing his ears to wireless signals,, but one
initially trained to these is greatly at sea
when set the task of land-lines reception.
Another important fact is that manual wire-
less signals are necessarily transmitted at a
much slower speed than that adopted on the
land lines.
“Morkrum”: A “buzzer” reader cannot
also read a telegraph-sounder, and for a
very peculiar reason. A radio-receiver reads
the actual dots and dashes; a telegraphist
reads the silences. Take E —a single dot.
The radio man hears a short buzz and in-
stantly knows it for E. But the telegraph-
sounder clicks both down and up, and the
operator has to wait for the “back” click
to tell him whether the tongue stayed down
only momentarily, and made a dot (E), or
for a period, which would mean a dash
(T). Thus he reads, not the clicks, but the
interval between. The other letters are more
complicated. Of course, a radio-man can
learn the sounder, but he would never be
included among the stars of a telegraph-
office. Oddly, a telegraphist hearing radio
for the first time misses the back-click, but
soon adapts himself.
... * * *
“John B.” : The foundation-stone at Lith-
gow (N.S.W.) Trades Hall, which was laid
by Senator Pearce in 1910, has been ignomi-
niously painted over. As some miscreant had
chiselled “Rat!” underneath the Senator’s
name, the trustees had little option. The
Minister’s name, by the way, has adorned
a tablet on the outside of the Subiaco
(W.A.) municipal chambers for 30 years,
a reminder that he was a humble councillor
of the suburb when the building was erected.
* 4 * *
“Billy Blazes”: My first close-up of Billy
Hughes was when he was orating the other
dav in Macquarie-place, Sydney, perched
beneath the huge Mort statue. In his pas-
sionate earnestness and sweeping fluency he
has a good deal in common with his country-
man Lloyd George, but the resemblance ends
there. Lloyd George, even when most
vehement, seems to radiate a certain genial-
ity—to find more pleasure in tripping up
an opponent with a homely metaphor or apt
illustration than in deluging him with bit-
terness. But Billy, arms and legs never for
a moment still, fore-finger stabbing the air
or crushing somebody between it and the
thumb—Billy radiated nothing but bitter
hate for whomsoever it was that he was
scarifying. And the vastness and reposeful-
ness and urbanity of the bronze figure above
him made the human packet o’ crackers
look more diminutive and jerky and Puckish,
not to say malevolent, than any other setting
could have done.
* * * *
“Ming” : My theory about bathroom sing-
ing is that some instinct inherent in man
makes him want to sing against sound.
Running water, like breaking surf, provokes
the desire to make an opposition noise, and
the manager of a big flourmill told me once
that most of his hands sang as they tended
the machines, though, of course, their voices
were drowned in the roar. On a motor trip
to Prospect (N.S.W.) ldst year we found
a picnic party of about 20 singing against
the rush of the big waterfall, just as the
family canary pipes up when he hears a
domestic concatenation of sound.
«J» & v
“John B.” : Some time ago the brass-plate
at Mount York, Blue Mountains (N.S.W.),
which indicated convicts’ pick-marks in the
rock and was inscribed “Made by Convicts,”
was mysteriously removed. The trustees
must have suspected that the allusion to
our birthstain grated on somebody’s suscep-
tibilities ; anyhow, they have substituted on
the new plate, “Pick-marks made to allow
Governor Macquarie to pass over this road
in 1813.”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Touching the sampling of the
effluent from a septic tank, after the Brigh-
ton council’s surprise visit to the Werribee
sludge farm when the Bumbles declared they
saw crude sewage being poured into the bay,
a second inspection was conducted by invi-
tation. This time there was a different
lot of councillors, and they found so little
to cavil at that one of them dipped a glass
into one of the channels and tossed down
the liquid with every outward sign of
approval. What he thought when an en-
gineer announced on the following day that
the stuff there was only 60 per cent, pure at
the best of times is not recorded.
* * 4 *
“Double Disc”: In 1918 an order was
issued from G.H.Q. in which all ranks were
forbidden to go into the line wearing shorts.
Anyone who had been near a battalion of
Jocks after an area strafe of mustard-gas
shells would readily understand the reason.
Mustard-gas “gasified” more slowly than any
of the German lethal gases, and, splashing on
the exposed skin of the knees, and above,
caused some ghastly burns. It was bad
enough on S.D. trousers and puttees, going
through them like muriatic acid, but the
material gave some little protection. The
liquid gas from a mustard shell bursting
a few feet away would penetrate even the
thick leather of a field boot like a bullet.
I’ve got the scars yet.
BOOTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, I’ve been half around the world, from
Liverpool to Bourke,
A-lumpin’ wheat an’ loadin’ coal, an’ other
sorts o’ work.
Till now I’ve reached the end of all —to rub,
an’ rub, an’ rub
The boots an’ shoes that stand outside the
doors in Murphy’s pub.
Number seven — here’s his shoes,
Dirty, ugly tan.
Fat an’ sweaty things they are,
The dead-ring of the man ....
A pretty miss puts this pair on —
So shine ’em all we can!
I useter tell a feller once by lookin’ at his
face,
An’ sometimes I could judge him right, an’
sometimes outer place.
I went on whether he could look the whole
world in the eye,
But now I judge ’im from his boots —an’
boots they never lie.
This pair with rubber heels belongs to him
in number ten,
A meek an’ pious sorter cove, a friend to
dogs an’ men.
He tipped me two-an’-six las’ night—but
that’s jest by the way;
He’ll see his face in these here shoes when he
goes out to-day.
Them high, up-standin’ narrer ones that
bulge a bit one side —-
They cost as much as you would pay fer half
a bullock’s hide.
There’s no one knows jest how that dame
can make ’em fit her feet,
But she’s right in the “uppah ten,” with cars
an’ dawgs complete.
I s’pose because I’m shinin’ boots you reckon
I’ve fell low.
Still I am wise to many things the bloomin’
world don’t know.
An’ every pair I handle still can teach me
something new;
There’s signs in boots that can’t be read by
untrained blokes like you.
Number five —a growlin’ nark,
Thin an’ pinched an’ mean.
Lady from the country here
In number seventeen.
Rub an’ rub, an’ rub, an’ rub,
Till you get ’em clean!
VICTORIA.
P. T. FINDLAY.
GETTING THERE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A liner lifts the flying spray:
A train rocks on the humming rails;
A car reels in the ribboned way ;
An aeroplane shocked Heaven assails.
Thus, magic-shod against his need,
Man mocks at distance, hurtling to
His journey’s end at crazy speed;
Then—wonders what the Hell to do!
QUEENSLAND.
MACESS.


f
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. TIIELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD.
Total Assets exceed ....... £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
( t£e Asoociation and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
in ih* pvent of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost evoiy contingency.
(5) PEKoOJN Alj aw, premium IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN'S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications jor Agencies invited from men of integrity . QE() pRUCE SMITH( Qeneral Manaf?er .
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Hold Everything”
Criterion “Lombardi, Ltd.”
State Movies and Talkies
Majestic (Newtown) “School for Scandal”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Rose Marie”
Royal “Journey’s End”
King’s “Whoopee”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
Olympia Wirths’ Circus
■*
Burst of enthusiasm from Lockhart
(N.S.W.) :
“Re par. in ‘Sundry Shows’ about the
gentlemen responsible for overcrowding the
Melbourne Town Hall, etc. We Lockhart
people are proud to say our little Nancy
Weir was the attraction (God bless her !).
Her picture, taken from The Bulletin,
adorns every shearing-shed and home in Lock-
hart and many miles ‘beyant.’ She is a most
lovable kid. We have all booked for her
show on the 19th (.Caulfield Cup Night),
and whether we back the winner or not we
will call for three cheers for Nancy, and
ask you all to join. She is the right stuff
and a dinkum Aussie through and through.
We’ll make the Town Hall rafters ring that
night.”
The benefit to Nancy will happen at the
Town Hall on Saturday, and baritone Harold
Williams will assist. Nancy’s contribution
will be the Glazounov variations. Schumann’s
Ivinderschenen and a Chopin panel.
* * * *
The musical renaissance continues in Mel-
bourne, though to a somewhat less furious
tempo, no doubt owing to the arrival of
summer weather. Nevertheless, the fifth
cheap but not tawdry concert of the Mel-
bourne Symphony Orchestra attracted a
moderately large forest of attentive ears to
the Town Hall, though the ears were not
accompanied with over-enthusiastic hands,
except when a wistful elegy by Grieg
trembled into silence.
The hands demanded three servings of
that item, which somewhat threw the pro-
gramme out of symmetry because the next
item was “Voyage at Dusk,” a fantasy by a
young Victorian composer, Hubert Clifford.
Hubert, who scores “Blue Ideas,” “Puce
MARY GANNON, the Australian who leads in “Whoopee” at
Melbourne King’s.
Ideas” and things of that sort for a living
at the State Theatre, conducted liis own
work, which was curiously similar in char-
acter to the Grieg that preceded it, though
more modern and impressionistic. Where
it did not recall Grieg, it suggested the influ-
ence of Fritz Hart, the young author's
mentor. “Voyage at Dusk” purported to
give intimate expression to the feelings in-
spired by Humbert Wolfe’s lines:
Since it is evening
Let us invent
Love’s undiscovered
Continent.
The solemn hush of twilight was extremely
well described, but The Bulletin could find
no mention of love in it —not of the mun-
dane sort, at any rate. It was not a moon-
light trip down the bay as this paper
imagines it, and if Mrs. Grundy had been
aboard she would have seen nothing to write
to the Argus about.
Englishman Howard Carr conducted two of
his own works. “The Adventurers,” sym-
phonic march, was commonplace; but “The
Shrine in the Woods,” depicting the peace-
ful and devotional atmosphere surrounding
an abbey in a Yorkshire dale, contained some
exquisite passages for the strings, who, with
the assistance of the invaluable Bertha Jor-
gensen, rose gracefully to the occasion.
Haydn’s “London” symphony, which con-
tains not a trace of fog nor even a mention
of slums or unemployment, was included in
the proceedings. The next outburst of the
series will happen on Nov. IC.
Melbourne also contimies to hunger mod-
erately for the musical goods which the
Vie. Professional Orchestra has on show on
Saturday nights at the Auditorium. The
playing is better than that provided by the
amateur organisations, but the quality of
the works is not so high. It is an open
secret that the members of the Y.P.O, are
divided on the subject of what bait to set on
their hook. Some want to attract with
the sort of lollipop which is the signal for
general conversation amongst audiences in
the intervals at legitimate shows. Others
want to build their temple of sound on more
permanent foundations. The G minor sym-
phony of Mozart at a recent concert was a
concession to the last-named faction. It was
beautifully played and well received. Leon-
ora Scott, a lady with a remarkably lush
and lambent soprano, sang “Visi Darte” from
“Tosca” at the same show.
# * *
“Show Boat” having proved as expensive
to run as a minor war in the Balkans,
“Rose Marie” returned to His Majesty’s on
Saturday. If Melbourne does not flock to
the revival as it flocked to the original pro-
duction it will be because it has been finding
the talkies a short cut to amusement in a
time of financial depression and so has got
out of the habit of flocking, as far as stage-
shows are concerned.
The present performance is better than its
original in several respects, one of them
being the local production, Marie Bremner.
Marie hasn’t a sea voyage and a London
reputation made in
the local publicity
mills to her credit.
She is her own
best advt. She is
the pathetic little
French girl to her
clever finger-tips—
also to other of
her graceful extre-
mities. Her charm-
ing behavior is
quite sufficient ex-
planation for the
melodious woe
voided at every
favorable opportu-
nity by Glen Dale
as that fugitive
from musicomedy
justice, Jim Ken-
yon. Dale is better
in “Rose Marie”
than he was in
“Show Boat,” and
is also superior to
the predecessor in
the part, the regi-
mented Reginald
Dandy. Australian
Colin Crane wears
the stripes of a
sergeant of the
Canadian constabu-
lary, which doesn’t
favor protective
coloring in its
uniforms apparent-
ly. He follows up
his alleged clues
with praiseworthy
persistence and
much vocal over-
emphasis. Still, he
is obliged to be
emphatic in order
to overawe the
orchestral accom-
paniment, which
Rudolf Friml ap-
parently scored exclusively for the big drum
and cymbals. .
Another excellent second or third emer-
gency is Marjorie Maxwell, the Firm s chief
ballet-mistress, who stepped into the part of
the sinuous Wanda at the last moment, lhe
uncanny and excessive Stephanie Deste had
seemingly fixed the lines of. that charactei
for ever, or as long as the life of a modern
musicomedy; but Miss Maxwell’s simpler
interpretation was a more convincing excuse
for the Wanda-lust of her gentlemen follow-
ers, because it didn’t imply that white men
are sexually attracted by brown women who
behave like boa-constrictors. For reasons
best known to itself the Firm imported
Michael Cole for the unexacting role of the
conventional Hawley. Frederic Bentley is
as funny as ever, and as. Saturday was
election night his line “I’m no use to any-
body—send me to Canberra” got an appreci-
ative reception. The multitudinous ballet is
as overwhelming as formerly, and its stagger
dancing is a masterpiece of synchronised
movement. For those who like lots for their
money tbe musical bellowdrama with the
immoral story fulfils requirements.
* * *
Just-returned Edward Goll gave three
piano recitals at Melbourne Assembly Hall
last week before
audiences which
made up in en-
thusiasm what they
lacked in numbers.
His first pro-
gramme was de-
voted to Beethoven
and included the
beautiful and
seldom - performed
sonatas Opuses
110 and 111; the
second was a melo-
dious and deeply-
moving Bach menu,
and the last was a
personally-conduct-
ed tour through the
ages up to the pre-
sent. Melbourne is
profoundly in-
debted to this ad-
mirable performer
even if it doesn t
go to hear him. He
fills in the blanks
left in its musical
education by the
visiting virtuosi.
H- *
Dusolina Giannini
trilled her farewell
to Sydney at the
Town Hall on
Thursday night as
happily and as
effortlessly as a
»bird on a bough.
She has the faculty
of adding some-
thing unforgettable
to everything she
sings, lioweyer
familiar or shallow,
and that’s the hall-
mark of a really
great artist. An
audience, mostly
composed of con-
firmed Giannini-idolators, was under her spell
completely, and postponed the pleasure of
listening to her for two solid minutes on one
occasion while it demonstrated its rapture.
It was a “by request” programme, but what
Giannini sings really doesn't matter; she
couldn’t be a bore if she tried. No matter
when she comes this way again she’ll be
sure of a warm welcome.
* **
Two young Sydney-siders, ; Dagmar Roberts
and Allen McCristal, each said to be 18,
have given brilliant performances at their
concerts at the Conservatorium. The girl
has musicianship, inspiration and atmo-
spheric gifts. The boy lias dynamic power,
intellect and other gifts far beyond the
ordinary. They could do with more tuition
before they are let loose on a bored London
audience, but they are the most promising
young pianists Sydney has seen for many
a day.
* * * #
The three great B’s—Bach, Beethoven and
Brahms —provided the main material for
Kathleen Fitzgerald’s pianoforte recital at
Sydney Uni. Con. The French suite
No. 2, neatly fingered, demonstrated a well-
trained left hand; the “Appassionata”
Sonata had life in it, but was a little too
reckless in the presto. The Brahms D minor
Sonata, in which the pianist was associated
with violinist Cyril Monk, _ was good in
spots and a trifle obscure in places. A
Chopin nocturne and prelude and a group
of Debussy sketches were prettily played.
Miss Fitzgerald has temperament and a
good touch.
* * #
George Wallace’s notion of a revue will
replace Frank O’Brian’s conception of that
art form on Saturday at Melbourne Bijou.
The Kentucky Singers have departed from
the Tiv., where Jerry and her amusing
Baby Grands will carry on until the 19th.
On that date Ernest Lotinga will introduce
his English burlesque co. The best., variety
in town is not being provided at the old-
established houses at the moment; but at
the Capitol, and as a frame to a somewhat
lugubrious picture, “Behind That Curtain,”
Adele Crane and William Perryman are
singing of Oriental amour in an atmosphere
of Russian music, a ballet of Burmese,
maidens —quaintly pretty these—are dancing
with typical Eastern vigor to American syn-
copated melody, and Madeline, described as
an adagio dancer, is being flung about by
two muscular young men, although she loons
as if she could be thrown off her balance
by a zephyr. Dorothy Hutchison and Robert
Helpman ‘ pool their resources to make a
many-armed and -legged Hindu deity
remarkably effective bit of tableau.
V . ?
The legitimate stage, which .looks
miserable as it probably ever will in
at the moment, is to get a lift on Satuiday,
when Allan Wilkie, with M’ss Hunter- Watts
and a company of 30, launch out on a return
season at Newtown Majestic. On Ins fast
appearance there Wilkie purveyed an un-
HILARY BLAKE , bright in the Repertory Society performance
of “St. Simon Stylites” at Melbourne Playhouse.
mixed diet of Shakspeare, and it went down
very well. Since then he has been in Maori-
land, where revivals of Sheridan and Gold-
smith were so well received that the Sydney
season is to begin with “The School for
Scandal,” with other eighteenth-century
comedies to follow.
* •¥ ¥
Fred Forbes continues to move patrons of
Sydney Fullers to cachinnatory excess with
his Funbeams co. The show is mostly a
froth and bubble of sketch and vaudeville
in which Fred and Irene Shamrock often
stand alone. Still, there are no passengers,
and Betty Lambert, Bert Lee, Aster Faire,
the Big Four and the dancing Arnleys score
well.
* * *
A topical ballet, “The Surf Idea,” and
the orchestra strumming “If I Were King”
fill in the gaps that are not flooded by the
mighty liowlitzer and a string of shorts at
Sydney State this week. The main offering,
“The Pagan,” is a sound and singing movie
with some lovely photography. “The
Valiant,” a talkie drama, completes the
generous bill.
At time of writing there is still nothing
doing at the Royal, where a change-over to
the talkies with the fine M.-G.-M. version
of the ancient “Madame X” was marred by
mechanical troubles that led to some counting
out and threats by the makers to take their
picture back. Representatives of the
American-made equipment capped the furious
outbursts by asserting that vandals had been
at the terminals, and it was stated that
similar trouble had occurred at other Hoyt’s
theatres. Leon Gordon, who was shunted off
the premises and had to finish his “It Pays
to Advertise” season at the old Palace,
should have accepted the Royal fiasco as
poetic justice.
The Regent has “The Black Watch,” a
good talkie, especially for its careful detail
and the pleasing sound of the voices. It is
the only war picture present Showman has
seen that has no U.S.A. in it. At the Prince
Edward, Maurice Chevalier’s “Innocents of
Paris” has had a great run, but is due to
come off. “Bulldog Drummond,” with Aus-
tralian Ronald Column in the name part, has
done nearly as well at the Lyceum. It is
to be followed by “Noah’s Ark,” which
ought to do better.


EGYPTIAN POTTER
The primitiye methods of the potter
are typical of those which still prevail
in Egypt, and on the Nile and in the
crowded streets of Cairo many sights as
interesting as his quaint and simple work-
shop are to be seen .. . On the voyage
to London passengers by the Orient Line
are, at a small cost, enabled to visit
Cairo, the Pyramids and Sphinx, dis-
embarking at Suez and rejoining at Port
Said. The inclusive fares for these
special excursions, which are arranged
for each ship leaving Australia from
January to May, range from £7/10/-.
ORIENT LINE
w
JWIttC
$
TJJ.
4/A
Si
/r
X
/>
wZgv.
n
1
5^
Sv
h
m
w.
n&
Jr
■ r^-
.
z
V
3F^
?*r
>!
/»£
V
%
hi
m
j
%
>x
+2
h
m
*
K
&
&&s
I
v
*S
*??
m
. *r
r ,
s
s^n
fsfs
ffl


R°NE°
BUSINESS
EFFICIENCY
METHODS.
BItITISH MAKUFACTUItI?
STEEL CABINETS.
FILING SYSTEMS.
VISIBLE CABD
RECORDS.
RONEOTYPE
DUPLICATORS.
ADDRESSING
MACHINES.
ON EXHIBITION AT
21 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
M
'/M
64 MARKET STREET, MELBOURNE.
43 CREEK STREET, BRISBANE.
GAWLER PLACE, ADELAIDE.
107 MURRAY STREET, PERTH.
The “Explosives” House
Explosives and Accessories of All Kinds
Supplied at Lowest Prices.
Manufacturers of
RENDROCK,
The Safest, Cheapest and Most Effective High Explosive Known.
Can be forwarded by Rail or Steamer at ordinary rates of freight.
Blasting Machines, Steel Rock Drills.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company, Limited.
Founded 1886.
Assets at 31st December, 1928,
£18,792,732
of which 84% was represented by
Public Securities.
The M.L.O. Charter is constituted to
admit of the issue of policies to meet
the necessities of every class, every age,
every purse. Its range of contracts is
unsurpassed for diversity and liberality,
and the fulfilment of every contract is
guaranteed by the Company s capital
and its ever-increasing assurance * unds.
CASH SURPLUS in the
Branch for the year 1928,
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
Head Office: Citizens’ Building,
Street and Martin Place,
Ordinary
£624,370.
, Castlereagb
Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
David Jones, Ltd. (Sydney).
r Dividends
Ist 2nd
Net Prefs. Prefs.
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 7J p.c. Ordinaries. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
275,765
1920. .101,249 9000 10 p.c. = 40,980 227,034
Surplus from sale of property, £9OOO .. 236,034
Provision for depreciation of stock, £60,000 176,034
1921.. 3,984 9000 8,673 7£p.c.= 37,090 125,355
1922.. 85,262 9000 8,485 10 „ „ 49,453 143,679
1923.. 90,107 9000 8,573 10 „ „ 49,453 166,760
1921.. 95,776 9000 8,573 10 „ „ 49,453 195,510
1925.. 97,989 9000 8,573 10 „ „ 49,876 226,050
1926. .104,789 9000 9,911 10 „ ~ 50,000 261,928
Premiums on shares, £25,000 .. .. 286,928
1927. .106,885 9000 13,330 10 p.c. = 62,764 318,719
1928.. 98,136 9000 18,403 10 „ „ 59,537 329,915
1929. .118,332 9000 18,750 10 „ ~ 60,000 360,497
A surprisingly good result, all things con-
sidered. Profits made a record leap of
£20,196. reaching the highest point yet re-
corded. The figures are of special interest
because they provide a striking illustration
of how the goodwill of this big retail busi-
ness has been not only successfully trans-
ferred from one locality to another, but also
strengthened. After trading at the corner of
George and Barrack streets since 1838, the
co. uprooted itself in November, 1927, and
moved to the new 11-storeyed premises which
it had built fronting Elizabeth, Market and
Castlereagh streets, overlooking Hyde Park
and opposite St. James (City Railway)
station. One of the big risks inseparable
from such a move lay in the fact that it is
not so much the firm as the shop that many
women like or dislike.
Further, there was a lot of guessing
whether, with a much larger sum locked up
in premises, and with retail trading generally
becoming more difficult, the co.’s turnover
would liven sufficiently to show a satisfactory
profit on its million of capital. The 192 S
figures did not leave very much doubt on
that point; assuming that stock has been
taken conservatively, the present figures leave
no doubt at all. The management has ex-
hibited not only imagination and foresight
but also courage, along with practical care
for detail ; it has made its new store attrac-
tive, and turnover has responded.
Though there were some signs of harder
times last year, big retailers like David Jones
were able to make adjustments and pusn
trade, largely by vigorous advertising and
cuts in seasonal lines. Indeed, the co. ex-
panded its business more in this 12 months
than in any previous 12 months in its his-
tory ; and, since operations were free of many
of the handicaps of the previous year, there
was a very comforting increase in profits.
After attending to the requirements of both
lots of prefs.—together they called for
£27,750 —the balance of the net earnings
equalled 15.1 p.c. on average ordinary capital
compared with 11.8, 16, 17.1, 16.1 and 15.8
p.c. back to 1924. It all gives the 10 p.c.
div. a comfortable appearance.
The board is gradually getting rid of
the old George-street leaseholds. The balance
is occupied by the co., which continues to
trade at the old address in men’s wear. No
hint, by the way, is given as to whether this
section of the business is a profit-earner. The
co.’s freehold in George-street has been con-
verted into small shops, and these have been
let, together with portion of the upper floors;
but plans for dealing with the York-street
frontage have been held up on account of
resumption proposals.
At the close of last accounts 60.1 p.c.
of the balance-sheet total was in fixed assets
as against only 45.5 p.c. three years earlier;
obviously, turnover needed to liven to give
satisfactory returns on the increased capital.
Over the same period the new premises and
plant visibly swallowed £693,056, and share-
holders were called upon for only £225,000
of it, including £25,000 of share premiums.
This comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows the big changes that have taken place
since the co. bought the freehold of the
Elizabeth-street property:—
1920. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital .. £559,804 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Deposits . • • • 14,369 50,716 16,286
Overdraft . . .. 287,259 100,761 42,031
Sundry creditors .. 121,620 211,352 268,338
Mortgages, etc. .. 203,585 465,437 469,218
Total liabilities.. £626,833 £828,266 £795,873
Fixed assets .. 520,250 1,324,273 1,322,082
Stocks . . .. 669,308 597,766 588,010
Book debts .. 199,632 274,015 281,167
Investments, cash, etc. 49,470 6,002 8,986
Last year the mortgage (£452,475) re-
mained practically unchanged—it has a
15-years’ currency—and £56,956 was added
to the amount corning to sundry creditors,
including provision for taxation. Bui;
£58,730 was wiped off the overdraft and
£34,430 of deposits were returned. Alto-
gether, the outside debt was lightened by
£32,393. The improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£82,290, including stocks)
was £32,773. There was thus nothing uneasy
about the finances: the floating debt
(£326,655) was covered more than two and
a half times by more or less liquids. The
small increase of £3836 in London credits
(£16,742) does not suggest that any big buy-
ing programme was afoot when the books
were ruled off.
How the current year will pan out nobody
can say definitely. But a much smaller re-
turn from wool is certain, and with unsettled
conditions on the industrial side, and less
Government funds to throw around, prospects
are that trade generally will be quieter, and
competition can be expected to sharpen. Also,
the recent lift in the exchange rate on Lon-
don will not make the cost of importing any
lighter. Still, it may be the small trader
who will suffer most.
Paid capital is in 150,000 6 p.c. first cum.
profs.. 250,000 7i p.c. second cum. prefs.
and 600,000 ords.~ Two years ago the mar-
ket paid 30s. for the ords; then rumors of
one kind and another depressed the figure
to 235. 3d. in March, 1928. But the price
soon strengthened, and for the past 12 months
has been fairly steady around 28s. After
allowing for the final div. (Is.), the return
at that figure is 7.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c., div.
basis. The net tangible backing amounts
to 325. per share. Tbe prefs. rank in the
order stated and have priority as to capital.
The net tangible cover is £9 Is. 4d. for the
firsts, and £4 16s. lOd. for the seconds. The
6 per cents, are at 19s. 6d. and the per
cents, at 235. on the market, the return at
those figures being 6.1 p.c. and 6.5 p.c.
respectively.
Lincoln Mills (Australia), Ltd.
, Dividends ——,
Pref. Towards
June, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £
11,341
1922.. 16,284* 7,571 8713 2,628
Loss.
1923.. 1.380 4,008
1924.. 1,169 - 5,177
1925.. 934 6,111
Capital written off, £322,104.
To Re-
Profit. serves. Reserves.
1926.. 19,308 t 18,000 1308 1,308
1927.. 36,041 36,000 41 1,349
Loss. Deficit.
1928.. 1,611 262
Profit. Reserves.
1929.. 53,184 52,000 1184 922
*Three months. fSix months.
This is the only really encouraging result
that this Victorian textile investment co.
has been able to show since it was formed
seven and a half years ago. At the begin-
ning it exchanged £402,631 of its own paper
for the scrip in Lincoln Spinning Mills and
Lincoln Knitting Mills. After that, and in
order to lighten the operating cos.’ heavy
burden of outside debt and provide for
expansion, the public put up £400,000 in
9 p.c. cum. prefs. on the strength of a pros-
pectus which figured out profits at £98,857
p.a. But estimates went all awry. In 1925
a fire, which destroyed most of the knitting
mills, made reconstruction inevitable. Dur-
ing the tidying-up goodwill (£80,000) and
£27,241 of accumulated losses were rubbed
out, and fixed assets were written down to
what the board considered they were worth.
Then, to make the totals on each side of
the sheet agree, £322,104, equal to 16s. per
share, was struck off the ord. capital, reduc-
ing it to £80,527. The prefs. suffered no
capital loss, but agreed to forego £133,000-
odd of accumulated divs. In return they
got a 10 years’ right to an extra 3 p.c. out
of the profits of any year after the ords.
had collected 10 p.c.
But even with the deadwood cut out and
a flying start on the manufacturing side,
profits held back in the_ collar. Here is a
comparison of the combined trading figures
of the two operating mills since the recon-
struction :
Two Operating Mills’ Results.
1926.* 1927. 1928. 1929.
Gross profit .. £52,693 £115,305 £116,398 £135,341
Exes. .. 26,729 76,444 79,498 79,216
Net profit ..£25,964 £38,861 £36,900 £56,125
Divs. paid .. 22,000 37,500 55,000
♦Six months.
Last year’s figures are thus more heart-
ening. After striking off an extra < £5816
for depreciation (£28,136), the spring in
gross profits was £18,943; and as a tight
hold was kept upon exes., which were £282
lighter, the net improvement was £19,225.
All but £1125 of the year’s net earnings of
the operating cos. was passed on. Inciden-
tally, of divs. totalling £114,500 to date the
spinning mill has contributed £84,500, and
the knitting mill only £30,000, despite its
practically new plant.
Of the £55,000 that the holding co. received
in divs. last year, exes, took £lBl6, and
£52,000 (13 p.c.) was handed to the prefs.,
reducing their arrears to Is. per share. After
wiping out a p. and 1. debit of £262, the co.
starts the current term with a trifle. of
£922 in the cupboard. By next balancing-
date £60,000 in divs. will be due to the prefs.
That is to say, net profits at least £6816
better than last year’s will be needed to
clean the slate. Leaving arrears of divi-
dend out of consideration, last year’s £53,184
of profit was enough to give the prefs. a maxi-
mum of 114 p.c.; but there is the heavy
outside debt in the subsidiaries still calling
for further reduction.
Last year’s brisker trading and the pass-
ing of the dividend in the previous term
have enabled the operating cos. to improve
their finances. This comparison of their
combined balance-sheet figures shows the
position in this and other respects: —
Operating Cos.’ Combined Balance-sheet.
1926. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital.. £469,122 £469,122 £469,122 £469,122
Advances .. 32,284 49,909 12,309 45,509
Trade creditors 147,533 231,105 278,929 195,206
Freeholds .. 98,348 101,206 99,463 94,575
Plant .. 225,267 242,217 235,098 218,263
Stocks . .. 208,186 282,018 318,026 268,813
Book debts, etc. 121,103 130,020 149,997 171,537
Paid capital in the Spinning Co. is £282,650
and in the Knitting Co. £186,472. The
growth in advances is mainly on account of
the final div., which had not been actually
paid to the holding co. when the books were
ruled off. The amount coming to sundry
creditors was £83,723 lighter. Book debts
were up £21,540, and stocks down £49,213.
The more or less liquid surplus (£199,635,
including stocks) was £22.850 stronger than
at the previous balance. During the year
£11,474 was spent on additions to plant and
premises, but £21,723 more than that was
written off.
Both mills are reported. well employed,
and the chairman says prospects for the cur-
rent year are promising. Competition, how-
ever, is keen and efficient, which means that
the co. will have to fight hard to repair the
damage that was done a while back. The
market, more hopeful, prices the prefs. at
19s. as against 16s. a year ago. The return
at the current figure is 9.5 p.c. on a 9 p.c.
div. basis. The net tangible backing amounts
to 265. 2d. per share, mostly in fixed assets,
worth what they can earn. The 4s. ords.,
which are covered by ss. 2d. in net tangibles,
are not quoted on ’Change.
News, Ltd. (Adelaide).
, Dividends —
Net Pref. Towards
Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
June, £ £ £ £ £
1925.. 2,019 8000* - 75,485
(6 p.c.)
1926.. 16,227 4000 8,340 3887 71,598
(10 p.c.)
1927.. 22,793 4000 13,970 4824 66,774
1928.. 28,091 4000 18,575 5516 61,258
1929.. 29,961 4000 19,686 6275. 54,983
*lncludes arrears.
This co. lias won very encouraging results
for its seven years of effort. The surprising
feature of the latest accounts is that in-
come (£226,938) fell away only £358, not-
withstanding S. Australia’s bad attack of
drought and depression. Exes. (£198,847,
including an unspecified amount for depre-
ciation) were cut back £2228; so the
exhibited net profit was £IS7O better than
the 1928 figure. But if the special depre-
ciation charged against the previous year’s
earnings is taken into consideration, the
actual net result was not bettered last year,
the chairman says. The co.’s journals in
South Aus. —it publishes the News (even-
ing) and Mail (weekly) in Adelaide, and
the Recorder at Port Pirie- —turned in less
profit, but divs. from its Westralian in-
terests (Perth Daily News, Ltd.) were
fatter; the Barrier Miner, the other mem-
ber of the stable, did well if it held its own.
All the co.’s publications are said to be
in favor. The £17,345 lost in former years
on the Hobart News (discontinued in 1926)
has been written off.
After attending to the pref. requirements,
the balance of the year’s net earnings was
13.1 p.c. on average ord. capital compared
with 12.8, 13.5 and 8.8 p.c. back to 1926,
so the 10 p.c. to the ords. is now easy. The
£6275 left in the business last year reduced
the capital unrepresented by tangibles to
£54,983 at June 30.
During the year the Melbourne Herald
people bought a “substantial interest” in
Advertiser Newspapers, Ltd., Adelaide. One
immediate result was the threatened dis-
turbance of the old working agreement be-
tween the Advertiser proprietary and the
News Co. After a lot of negotiating, how-
ever, the News was, it says, able to make
fresh, very wide and strongly protected co-
operative arrangements with the new con-
trol. Amongst other things the agreement,
made last month, provides that the News Co.
will allot to the Advertiser Co. a new issue
of 150,000 £1 ords., and will get in return
ord. shares of equivalent value in the Adver-
tiser Co. These exchange shares carry no
voting power for 10 years, excepting in mat-
ters affecting the constitution of the respec-
tive cos. The News is to get the equiva-
lent of its own div. up to 10 p.c., and in
addition anything more that the Adver-
tiser Co. may pay on its ords. It was
chiefly to provide for this deal that the
News recently lifted its nominal capital to
£750,000 by the creation of 500,000 new ±1
shares
During the year the co. installed hew
plant, and the extensions to its Adelaide
premises are nearing completion. These and
other things are reflected in this, compari-
son of balance-sheet figures :
1923. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital .. .. £151,875 £244,856 £247,700
Debentures .. .. 64,144 61,300
Creditors .. .. 18,243 37,901 71,684
Freehold premises .. 39,322 82,035 102,475
Plant and fittings .. 53,980 47,057 88,082
Stocks .. .. .. 26,109 17,519 23,015
Book debts, shares in
other cos,, etc. .. 7,082 119,743 123,903
Cash, etc. .. .. 4,248 30,977 99
On fixed assets £61,465 more was spent than
was written off. To do it the board went
outgide for an extra £33,783, of which £7OOO
was on mortgage, and drew upon liquids
for the rest. The real liquid position is
obscured by the lumping of shares in other
cos. with book debts. But including this
item, the more or less liquid surplus
(£14,033) was £52,161 lighter than at the
previous balance.
The debentures —£85,000 worth was issued
in 1926 to finance the purchase of the Perth
Daily News —carry p.c. and mature in
1931. Owners were given the right to con-
vert three-tenths of their holdings into ords.
at par; last year 2844 shares were issued
in this way, and only 1800 remained under
option at June 30.
The News (Adelaide) is the co.’s largest
money-spinner. It is the one evening paper
in the S.A. capital, and the recent agree-
ment, above referred to, suggests that some-
thing extraordinary will need to happen be-
fore its monopoly is disturbed.
The share market expresses its confidence
in the future by paying 365. 6d. for the
ords., which have a net tangible backing of
14s. sd. per share, subject to any goodwill
there may be in subsidiaries. The return
at the current price is only 5.4 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div.' basis. The prefs. —'there are
50,000 of them —carry a fixed cumulative
8 p.c. and have priority as to -capital. Their
cover is £3 17s. Id. in net tangibles, and
last year’s profit was over seven times their
annual requirements. On the market they
fetch 235. 6d., giving a return of 6.8 p.c.
Allan and Stark, Ltd.
r Dividends \
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
J £ £ £ £
1925.. 22,349 2262 8 p.c. = 18,418 1669 22,148
1926.. 23,202 3100 8 „ „ 18,557 1545 23,694
1927.. 24,510 3496 8 „ ~ 20,684 329 24,024
1928.. 18,992 3499 7 „ „ 18,929 20,588
1929.. 25,931 3499 7 „ „ 19,010 3422 24,010
During the last three years this Brisbane
general storekeeping co., with a mail-order
connection, has been busy expanding. _ It
bought the business of the Civil Serivce
Stores, including a freehold, and that of
Margaret Holstein in 1926, and absorbed
Chapmans, Ltd., a neighboring drapery busi-
ness, shortly before close of accounts in
1927. Also a subway connecting the co.s
Adelaide and Queen streets premises has been
built, and improvements and extensions made
to old buildings. Some of the stocks taken
over, however, proved troublesome, and cuts
had to be made a year ago in their book
values. The result was a shrinkage of
£5518 in the 1928 profit figure, and a point
was chipped off the div., reducing it to 7 p.c.
During the last term trading continued
difficult, competition sharpened, and “heavy
rebating,” the chairman says, was necessary
in some sections ; from which you can infer,
if you like, that the previous year’s cut in
stock figures was not so deep as it should
have been.
On the other hand, turnover improved a
trifle, and one way and another the accounts
show a spring of £6939 in net earnings.
That was after providing for depreciation
and paying the bill for taxation (£6730,
but making no provision to meet the next
bill w.ien it arrives, whereas £4OOO was so
set aside out of the previous year’s earn-
ings. If allowance is made for this the net
visible improvement last year was £2939, but
the result was still below the average for
three years to the close of accounts in 192:.
However, taking the figures as the accounts
present them, and after allowing for the
pref. requirements, the balance of last years
profit (£22,432) was 8.2 p.c. on average ord.
capital compared with 5.7, 8.6, 8.6 and S.i
p.c. back to 1925. The div. was kept at
7 p.c., and then nearly nine-tenths of the
net earnings was distributed, the £3422 that
was left advancing the lay-by to £-.4,01U,
which was within a few pounds of what
it was two years earlier. Until capital gets
a lot more support the div. rate is likely
to remain sensitive to market conditions.
Nobody can say to wliat extent, if any
earnings will improve this term. Recent
purchases and additions to the business have
lifted turnover, and the co. should be better
equipped than formerly to meet competition,
which threatens to be keen. Seasonal condi-
tions, too, are satisfactory. But the price
of wool is down, and returns from sugar


■
SftWv
m
ii
ml
1
W.
m
Only 14,585 Preference Shares, and 25,563 Ordinary Shares
left i
in
HOTEL SAVOY LIMITED
To occupy the noble building known as “Daily Telegraph” Building, on the corner of
KING AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
Sir ARTHUR RICKARD, K.B.E. ROBERT WALDER, Esq.
EDWARD J. TAIT, Esq. OTWAY R. FALKINER, Esq.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE (pro tem.) :
F. R. SNOWBALL, Esq., A.C.1.5., 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Don’t miss the opportunity to participate in this golden investment.
Hotel Savoy Limited shares have only been on the market for three weeks.
That subscriptions should come in so freely illustrates the confidence that the investor places in
the enterprise and the Board of Directors.
SPECIAL FEATURES
The Daily Telegraph Building, at the corner of King and Castlereagh Streets, offers a unique position, there being no doubt of the opening for a palatial
Residential Hotel in this fast-growing city.
The purchase price of the “Daily Telegraph” Building at £305,000 is a very favorable one, as the Company has obtained' a valuation
from Richardson and Wrench, Ltd., of the land, and from Messrs. H. E. Ross and Rowe, of the existing building. These valuations
aggregate £379,300, or £74,300 more than the Company paid for the property.
Fine shops will occupy frontages to King and Castlereagh Streets, and at a conservative estimate they will return £13,450 per annum.
This sum in itself is a guarantee of the success of the Company.
Revenue from the temporary bar, since it has been opened, has been phenomenal, and is increasing every week.
The details of expenditure and estimates of Income and Profit are shown in the Prospectus, and the figures, which are conservative, should amply satisfy
the keenest critics.
It will be interesting to note here the progress of other hotel companies of a similar nature during the past few years.
The Hotel Sydney was opened in 1912. The Company was reconstructed in 1923, when two new shares were distributed for each share held prior to
reconstruction. Present value of shares (last sale), £1 3s. 3d. Usher’s Metropolitan Hotel, Ltd., was registered in 1913, and reconstructed in 1920, when
ordinary shareholders received two new shares for each share previously held. Present value of shares (last sale), £1 Os. 3d. Hotel Metropole, Ltd., was
also reconstructed in 1920, when five new shares were distributed for every four shares held in the old company, together with a cash dividend. Present
value of shares (last sale), £t 11s. 6d.
*^ e Australia Hotel Company, Ltd., credited out of reserves a sum of 10s. per share on 50,000 shares in 1920, and a further sum of 12s. 6d. per share
on I 26,866 shares in 1925. Present value of shares (last sale), £1 13s. 6d.
The Directors of Hotel Savoy Limited are, therefore, confident that the Company, under skilful management, and with its greater advantages of location and
structure, will achieve success at least as great as that of its contemporaries.
Sec C ° ntracts * n connect * on with this Prospectus, as set out in detail in form of Prospectus being issued, may be inspected at the office of the Company’s
Applications may be made through any member of the Sydney Stock Exchange, or direct to the Secretary, Rickard House, 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
FORM OF APPLICATION
To the Directors of
HOTEL SAVOY, LIMITED, 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen, I hereby request you to allot me Preference/Ordinary Shares of £1 each in the above Company.
I enclose cheque for £ being a deposit of 2/6 per share on application, and I agree to accept such Shares, or any less number you may allot to me, and to pav on allotment-
(a) The balance unpaid in respect of the said Shares, being 17/6 per Share.
( ) 2/6 per Shaie, and the balance in calls not exceeding 2/6 per Share, at intervals of not less than one month.
to^e 6 t 0 b<? b ° Und by the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company, and request and authorise you to place my name on the Register of Members for the Shares so allotted
NAME IN FULL
ADDRESS IN FULL
PROFESSION or OCCUPATION
DATED
USUAL SIGNATURE
PROSPECTUS FIRST ISSUED ISth AUGUST, 1929.;


More Burdens
to Carry
Many concerns are falling by
the way, broken by high costs
and oppressive taxes.
Here’s a big co. that will
not pay even its unsecured
creditors 5/- in the £. The
pref. shareholders will lose
every penny.
Are you a shareholder? Have
you an insurance policy ? Do
companies owe you money ?
Don’t lose your capital. Keep
yourself informed.
The leading Australian
authority on all these matters
is
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
OCTOBER NUMBER NOW ON SALE
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/6. From Newsagents, or Bui.i.etin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt .
* =!: * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty' years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. —Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe is absolutely non-corrosive, a
feature that is of the utmost importance in con-
sidering the effective life of a pipe line—maintenance
cost, capacity and purity of the liquid content of the
pipe. Many important installations of Pioneer Wood
Pipe prove the high efficiency of this conduit for
practically any purpose. Full information in illus-
trated data book —free on request to the Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W. (near Figtree Bridge) ; and at Footscray,
Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate. Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
Who Will Manage Your Estate?
At all times when an individual is appointed as Executor or Trustee
the uncertainty of human life is present. Who is better qualified to
administer your Estate than the
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED.
It cannot die, travel or disappear; has had over 40 years’ experience
in the management of all classes of Estates, and offers as security the
whole of its capital and assets —over £1,000,000.
Our Explanatory Booklet will be
sent to you Post Free on Request.
DIRECTORS:
THOS. BUCKLAND
JAMES MOIR
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman)
0. E. FRIEND
Lt.-Col. T. F. RUTLEDGE
J. W. Barnes, Manager. E. V. T. Whittle, Asst. Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
INSURE WITH THE
n
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd.
fire, marine, accident,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
1 1 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
agents wanted where not represented.
threaten to be less. Results will largely
depend upon the increase of turnover and
the hold that can be kept on exes.
Since 1925 £52,397 of share capital has
been got in, and £47,999 net has been added
to the outside debt. For the most part the
money went into fixed assets; nevertheless,
there was nothing uneasy in the financial
position, as this comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows:—
1925. 1928. 1929.
Capital £269,200 £321,352 £321,597
Mortgages, etc. . . 50,613 84,133 82,925
Other liabilities . . 41,212 56,087 56,899
Premises and plant .. 156,513 234,215 231,554
Stock 153,960 173,122 154,517
Shares in other cos. . . 20,984 21,296 21,296
Investments . . . . 10,550 550 1,050
Debtors 59,981 63,121 64,270
Cash, etc. . . . . 484 2,854 20,770
The outstanding features last year were a
reduction of £18,605 in the book value of
stocks, and a strengthening of the cash hold-
ing by £17,916. Including stocks, which are
reported in good condition, the more or less
liquid surplus (£100,783) improved £1656.
In addition the co. holds 26,915 £1 shares in
Stuparts, Ltd., Maryborough, in the books
at £21,296. This co. lifted its div. from
7 p.c. to 8! p.c. last year, and at July 26
had reserves of £5317 to assist £52,595 of
paid capital, of which £13,900 was in 5 p.c.
prefs.
The share market, which paid 20s. 6d. for
the ords. a year ago, now prices them at
17s. At that figure the return is 8.2 p.c.
on a 7 p.c. div. basis. The backing amounts
to 21s. 9d. per share in net tangibles. The
prefs. seldom come on to the market. They
enjoy priority as to capital, carry a cumu-
lative 7 p.c. and have the right to advance
Avith the ords. after the latter have had 10
p.c. Their cover in net tangibles figures
out at £6 18s. 3d. per share.
Broken Hill South, Ltd.
Written
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1918 .. 334,976 240,000 65,005 781,470
Co. reconstructed—-
Special div., £60,000 .. .. 721,470
Returned to shareholders, £68,832 .. 652,638
Plant written up, £340,805 . . 993,443
Transferred to capital, £705,000 . . 288,443
Other writings up and adjustments
making reserves .. .. . . 390,091
Profits. Dividends.
1919 .. 344,113 15 p.c. = 120,000 614,204
1920 .. 2,766 Nil 616,970
Loss.
1921 .. 48,551 Nil 568,419
Profit.
1922 . . 296,060 Nil 864,479
1923 . . 354,232 35 p.c. =• 280,000 938,711
1924 . . 497,633 35 „ „ 280,000 1,156,344
1925 . . 521.590 50 „ „ 400,000 1,277,934
1926 .. 512.249 65 „ „ 520,000 1,270,183
1927 . . 355,207 45 „. „ 360,000 1,265,390
1928 .. 233,855 221 „ „ 180,000 1,319,245
1929 .. 388,997 22| „ „ 180,000 1,528,242
The leap of £155,142 in last year’s profits
was due largely to richer ore, better re-
coveries, lower mining costs, lighter selling
charges and larger returns from investments.
Certainly, the average price of lead for the
12 months to June 80 (£22 13s. 6d.)
strengthened 14s. per ton, and that helped,
of course, but the quantity of crudes raised
was 16,243 tons less than in the previous
term. The £388,997 netted was actually
£33,790 better than the 1927 result, though
for the year to June 30, 1927, the average
price of lead was no less than £6 2s. Id.
stronger than last year’s average, and the
skips brought up only 7650 tons .less crudes
than they did in the past term. However,
with an eye on the big programme of ex-
penditure ahead, the board distributed less
than half of last year’s profit. Obviously, a
profit that you can’t handle has its disadvan-
tages.
The sale of mine products for the 12
months to June 30 (£958,927) turned in
an extra £95,508; outgo on working account
(£597,165) was £82,919 less. But the re-
turn from investments (£115,148) was up
£13,515, so, despite a growth of £42,046 in
taxation, office charges, etc. (£118,651), the
accounts were able to claim a profit of
£358,259 as against £208,362 for the pre-
vious year. The difference between those
figures and the profits shown in the table
represents the net addition to the various
reserves, which have'moved in this way over
the last three years:—
1927. 1928. 1929.
Special reserve .. £270,844 £264,595 £263,345
General reserve .. 173,611 192,010 272,218
Debenture reserve 162,904 176,517 190,131
P. & L. balance .. 140,583 121,530 232,116
Total .. •• £747,942 £754,652 £957,810
Depreciation reserve 375,777 402,922 428,761
New plant and
development re-
serve .. . . 141,671 161,671 141,671
£1,265,390 £1,319,245 £1,528,242
But the reserves in a mining co.’s balance-
sheet are seldom all they look; wherefore, as
suggested above, some of the profits probably
exist only on paper, also. The South’s
paid capital is £BOO.OOO, and the mine and
plant figure at £84.758 and £932,412 respec-
tively. Of the latter amount, £425,000 repre-
sents the written up book value, less £70,000
fire losses, after the 1918 reconstruction;
the other £507,412 has been spent during the
last 11 years.
A more reliable idea of (1) the net excess
of incomings over outgoings and (2) of
surplus assets is to be had from this next
comparison:—
1923. 1928. 1929.
Assets other than
mine and plant £1,091,197 £1,364,113 £1,517,181
Liabilities.. . . 200,405 133,599 152,122
Excess assets .. £890,792 £1,230,514 £1,365,059
The more or less liquid surplus at June
30 was thus equal to 345. Id. per £1 share, an
improvement of 11s. lOd. during the last
six years.
In 1923 over half the profit on working-
account came from the treatment of old
slime dumps. Last year’s figures got no
benefit from that source: there are now
only 60,000 tons of refractory slimes available
for treatment. As the old dumps were worked
down the production of crudes was quick-
ened. The next table shows what has been
done in this respect, and its effect upon
costs:—
1923. 1928. 1929.
Grades raised. .203,659 tons 335,566 tons 319,323 tons
Extraction .. 255. 11.3 d. 245. 10.2 d. 245. 2.8 d.
Development . . 2s. 10.Od. 2s. 3.8 d. 2s. 9.8 d.
Treatment . . Bs. 0.3 d. 6s. 2.1 d. ss. 11.2 d.
Cost per ton . . 365. 9.6 d. 335. 4.1 d. 325. 11.8 d.
The shrinkage in last year’s tonnage was
due to a stoppage for repairs and two minor
industrial hold-ups. Still, mining costs were
cut back 4.3 d., making the reduction 3s. 3.9 d.
over the last two years. Last year’s crudes
assayed 14.3 p.c. lead, 5.8 p.c. silver and
11.5 p.c. zinc, an improvement of 1.3 p.c.
in the lead content since 1927. _ The good
work done by the technical staff is reflected
in higher metal recoveries—93.B p.c. of the
lead in the lead concentrates and 82.2 p.c.
of the zinc in the zinc concentrates, as against
90.4 p.c. and 77.7 p.c. respectively two years
ago.
The reconstruction of the concentrating
mill is taking longer than was expected.
The gravity section should be ready i
November. ‘ When the whole job is through
the plant will consist of four sets of rolls,
four elevators, four hummer screens, four
jigs with desliming and dewatering classi-
fiers, four tube mills, four Door classifiers
and 28 improved Wilfley tables. Further
savings in costs can be expected to follow
the establishment of a central oil-driven
generating plant, scheduled to be in full com-
mission within the next three years. The
estimated total cost is £500,000, but what
the South’s proportion of this is not
mentioned.
Balance-sheet figures compare as follows :
• 1923. 1928. 1929.
Debentures . . .. £101,200 £32,700 £19,100
Other liabilities . . 99,205 100,899 133,022
Mine account . . . ■ • 84,240 84,608 84,758
Plant, etc 771,434 858,073 932,412
Shares in other cos. .. 454,770 475,220 463,970
Public securities . . 10,000 10,172 10,000
Stocks and stores . . 436,273 370,124 351,716
Book debts .. ■ • 19,547 11,773 15,561
Cas h 170,606 496,823 675,934
Metal stocks (£262,818) were £25,475
heavier than at the previous balance, but
leadies were taken in at £l9 per ton, and
the metal was recently quoted at £23 6s. 3d.,
spot. During the year the new shaft (lift,
x 22ft.) at the southern end of the mine
was sunk and timbered 426 ft., and is
now complete to the 525 ft. level. It is
to go down to the 2070 ft. level, will be
equipped to raise 8000 tons of ore per week,
and is intended to serve for the remainder
of the life of the mine. Together with the
cost of the new mill it will mean an out-
lay of over £300,000 spread over the next
few years. The estimated ore reserves
remain unchanged at 4,250,000 tons; thus,
at last year’s rate of extraction, there is
still over 13 years’ work measured up. And
there are other large ore bodies, not i
eluded in the estimates, known to exist.
How metal prices are likely to behave
during the current term remains to be seen.
Chief doubt at the moment is in connection
with spelter. The general belief is. that there
is an accumulation of the metal in Europe.
But, until June 30 next, the Barrier cos.
will be little affected by .movements below
£3O per ton in the price of zinc because of
the contract with the British Government.
What will happen after next June nobody
knows for certain. The sharemarket, which
paid 48s. 6d. for the scrip a year ago, ex-
presses its confidence in the future by now
offering 70s. 6d.
There is a small boom in lease-pegging
in the H'erberton (N.Q.) district: the
activities of the Whitworth group have
stirred up company promoters. But nearly
all the leases have been tried hitherto and
abandoned, so investors need to go carefully.
A favorite method now is to take up several
leases —one here, one over there, and one
somewhere else. Greenhorns may be told it
is a good thing to pick out plums in this
way, but as each lease has to be worked
separately there is no economy in it.
* * * • *
The Great Northern, at Herberton (N.Q.).
has struck trouble. The lode, really a pipe,
became poorer and disturbed, and it is re-
ported now that the usual flattisli floor has
come in and cut it off. There is a fair
amount of ore in the sides and ends of the
winze higher up, and this will be stoped out
now. The winze on the lode is down about
150 ft. and is about 140 ft. lower than the
working shaft, so some dead work may have
to be done presently. A new boiler and larger
air-compressor are to be installed; they will
come in handy in prospecting.
* * * *
Chillagoe smelters (Q.) are buying ore
from all around, and producers say they are
quite satisfied with the returns. Smelting
will start shortly and, if the markets for
copper and lead keep steady, all may be
well. The silver is important, too, in nearly
every parcel.
* -if * *
Kalgoorlie is brightening a bit. The Lake
View group and Boulder Perseverance are
both looking better. South Kalgurli and
Great Boulder are officially admitted to be
permanently impoverished in depth, but they
are far from being worked out. Economy
and good system are now dug in along the
Golden Mile.
At the Lake View group new general-
manager Thorn is carrying out the policy
of development, plant reorganisation and ore
haulage and transportation recommended by
his predecessor and now consulting engineer,
Vail. Thorn is a valuable addition to the
brains of the Golden Mile. On Vail’s strong
recommendation the Lake View board re-
cently approved of the installation of a
treatment plant with a daily capacity of
100 tons to try the oil-flotation process on
Lake View, Star and Plorseshoe ores. The
State Government has promised to assist in
financing this installation.
At Boulder Perseverance manager Wil-
liams is hurrying development at the 1650 ft.
level on what he terms the downward con-
tinuation of the Phantom lode. There is no
doubt rich values have been obtained in
driving on the ore body at this point, but
in view of its extremely patchy nature else-
where in the mine, he resolutely declines to
say anything about its prospects at 1650 ft.
Recently, a good shoot of ore in the Lake
View lode, on the corresponding level of the
Lake View lease, was stoped to the Persever-
ance boundary. Williams has been notified
of this. The State Government has agreed
to lend the Perseverance co. £BOOO or more
to install a bromo-eyanide treatment plant.-
Great Boulder is still being vigorously re-
prospected from top to bottom. Its ore
reserves both as regards tonnage and value
are being maintained, and, with tributors’
assistance, operations continue profitable.
South Kalgurli, after spending £20,000
at the two bottom levels in vainly searching
unfavorable country for payable ore, is now
convinced that a continuance of dividends
depends on gold extraction from its reserves
in the higher levels, and profits from work-
ing the Kalgurli and Croesus Proprietary
mines, which it has on lease. The co. may
endeavor to obtain another property later on.
Meanwhile, some of its controllers have
formed a syndicate and acquired a gold-
mining lease, iff the early stages of develop-
ment, near Mt. Magnet.
Associated Gold Mines are still difficult to
work at a profit, and are likely to continue
so under the present high taxation, freights
and other costs. To a large extent the same
remark applies also to the North Kalgurli,
too.
* * * *
Associated Northern (W.A.) has been
losing money for some time, and as there
is a danger of it losing more, some share-
holders, including a few big ones, are
clamoring for a wind-up, and may appeal
to the Courts to order this to be done. The
present book value of the assets, which in-
clude big wads of Wiluna gold and Canadian
silver shares and a few thousands in Govern-
ment bonds, is sufficient to give shareholders
more than the present price of scrip.
* * * *
Enterprise, formerly Boulder No. 3
(W.A.)', proposes to raise fresh capital by
reconstruction. The extra money is wanted
to make a deeper test of the property, now
held under option. Already 19,000 tons of
ore containing £40,000 worth of gold is
stated to have been opened up. No esti-
mate is given as to how much of this would
be profit.
* * * *
Some Perth mining men have got a tem-
porary concession covering a number of
islands off the nor’-west coast of W.A. for •
the purpose of searching for minerals other
than gold, coal, iron and oil. But as the
willy-willy season is approaching, they will
probably have to mark time for a few
months. Meanwhile finance is having atten-
tion.
* * •-!= • • *
Hampton Consols is meeting with encour-
aging developments at Westonia (W.A.).
A prospecting shaft has been deepened to
60ft., exposing lode 4ft. wide valued at £6
per ton. This is good enough to go on
with, and, should it respond well to driving
operations, the co. will have something worth
while.
Ratrut Basin, one of the oldest Australian
tin-dredging concerns in Malaya, has had
little luck since setting in on its new area
at Sichon, in Southern Siam. In addition to
the original dredge, moved from Renong, a
large new plant was installed on the pro-
perty. But returns have been disappointing;
the estimated output of GO tons per month
has not been nearly reached, because the neiv
dredge has not been able to dig within coo-ee
of its estimated capacity. Boulders ami
clay, which were apparently not disclosed in
the boring, have been the trouble. Until
freer country is entered by the dredge there
seems little hope of improvement. So far
turnover has averaged about 60,000 yards
monthly, and the tin content about .601 b
both a long way from what was hoped for.
No. 1 dredge has also struck misfortune with
the breaking of the top tumbler, in itself an
indication of stiff digging; nevertheless, the
old plant was getting very good averages.
Chairman G* H. Blakemore says that, after
providing for all contingencies, the co. is
£8552 in credit, and sufficient profit is being
won to meet debenture requirements. Since
costs are practically stationary, an increase
in output of 20 tons a month for the two
dredges will put the co. on a good wicket,
and this result should be achieved when No.
2 dredge gets out of its present ground. April
next is expected to see dividends resumed.
The property has been bored to go close on
25 million c.y., running from 28 to 12 oz.,
with an average of 19oz. Loss for the year
1928 is given as £10,442, of which £5258
was on account of depreciation.


r/. •
6
VM.
w\W"4&*\'PSi l
U4iJr\ j K 7 *'•• *•'tf.
-• < *• *'/ /i
(2
0
K
S 3
Permanent and Immediate
FROM f 1
Primary Production Certificates
These certificates are interest-bearing and profit-participating.
100,000 of the certificates of £1 each are offered by
SUNSHINE. PARR LIMITED
The Certificates bear interest at the rate of
8 PER CENT. PER ANNUM, Payable QUARTERLY, on the
amount paid up.
30 PER CENT. OF THE NET PROFITS
of the Company will be distributed ratably to Certificate Holders
IN ADDITION TO THE 8 PER CENT. INTEREST.
50 PER CENT. OF THE NET PROFITS
of the Company will be reserved as a SINKING FUND to retire
the Certificates.
CERTIFICATE HOLDERS WILL CONTINUE TO PARTICI-
PATE in the net profits of the Company to the extent indicated,
NAMELY, 30 PER CENT., after their Certificates HAVE BEEN
REDEEMED.
This PARTICIPATION in profits is a PERPETUAL RIGHT
of the Certificate Holder, and is transferable at any time before
or after the Certificate has been redee'med.
The Certificates represent a FIRST CHARGE, until redemption,
upon SUNSHINE PARK LIMITED. The Company is engaged
in establishing Primary Industries, of which COMMERCIAL
POULTRY PRODUCTION is the first. This Industry has been
chosen because
the returns are
IMMEDIA TE
The Security of the Industry is apparent. Eggs are a commodity
of daily diet—in daily use—produced daily. The demand for
them is in every home. They sell for cash the year round—FRE-
QUENTLY AT PREMIUM PRICES. Their production on a large
scale under ideal conditions is both desirable and PROFITABLE.
The returns to Certificate-holders from both interest and* profit
participation should exceed 30 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
The industry is capable of considerable expansion, and offers
exceptional opportunities for those able to engage in it on a
large commercial and well-organised scale.
Sunshine Park Limited
Tustain & Company, Limited
SELLING BROKERS,
1 WINGELLO HOUSE, ANGEL PLACE, SYDNEY.
’PHONE 83315.
The Company’s operations will enjoy the benefit of Economy
of Operation, collective housing, the purchase of feed and
supplies at wholesale prices, standard grading, and DIRECI
MARKETING. Experts have been appointed to manage.
THESE CERTIFICATES REPRESENT A BETTER TYPE OF
SECURITY AND A MORE IMMEDIATE AND SUBSTANTIAL
RETURN THAN ANY YET OFFERED TO SMALL AND
LARGE INVESTORS.
Any number of the Certificates may be purchased (until the issue
is absorbed), payable
//- down and I\-
per month
on each Certificate purchased until the £l is paid.
Make application at once. Don’t Delay. Applications for the
Certificates will be dealt with in order of their receipt.
Production from the Hens is assured.
You can invest shillings or pounds according to your means.
FORTUNES FOLLOW EARLY INVESTMENT IN NEW
INDUSTRIES—INVEST.
Put in what you can spare, and watch it multiply.
A Copy of our Booklet, “Cheques from Chicks,”
will be mailed to you upon request.
Fill in the Coupon—Mail Now.
Tear Off and Mail To-day
To Tustain & Co. } Limited, 1 Wingello House, Sydney.
Gentlemen, —Please send, without obligation to me, further
particulars of the £1 Certificates, Interest Bearing and
Profit Participating, and copy of your Booklet, “Cheques
from Chicks.”
Name
Address
Bulletin, 16/10/’29.


PAINFUL POEMS
My cousin John, a careless mortal,
Travelling in an ocean liner, .
Leant too far through his cabin
porthole,
—Left a widow Clementina;
9?
To stop her sobs we tried and tried,
No soothing words of ours could
lull her —
“In the pocket of his coat ” she
sighed,
“ Was a full box of ABDULLA. ”
—Fougasse
(\BDULLt^
VIRGINIA
SUPERB
TURKISH
(Tgarettes
EGYPTIAN
Two High Speed
in Traffic
Four Speeds Forward —Standard Gear Shift
Owners say they particularly enjoy the Graham-Paige four-speed transmission (standard
gear shift) when driving in traffic. They speak of the rapid acceleration of third, a quiet
internal gear —the silent, smooth swiftness of fourth —the few times they find it
necessary to shift gears —and the ease with which the car handles. You are invited to
experience this new thrill in motoring.
w\
AAAAAM
A A At
An INVITATION—In territories where
Graham-Paige motor cars are not now ade-
quately represented there is an opportunity
for responsible business man, who are in-*
terested in the exceptional possibilities this
new line offers, to obtain the franchise*
Model 827 Five'Passenger Sedan
ffioied
Graham-Paige Distributors, Australia and New Zealand :
QUEENSLAND . .
NEW SOUTH WALES
VICTORIA
MOXON MOTORS, LTD.
.. . . W. H. LOBER & CO., LTD.
WALTER WHITBOURN PTY., LTD.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA .. . . MAUGHAN THIEM MOTOR CO., LTD.
WEST AUSTRALIA ARTHUR BALES, LIMITED.
TASMANIA TWIN-TOP MOTORS PTY., LTD.
NEW ZEALAND . .
WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO., LTD.
kAAMAM-PAl££


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic P.isk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys”
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a “GREYS.”
sfi
m
JHE GREYS
SIZEoTWO
SILK CUT VIRGINIA
DRAP
LONDON
EYS
1® for ®«I. CIGARETTES 2® for £/<&>
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights”
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher's every essen-
t,al to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike.
cuisine of rare excel- p
lence, and that
friendly hospitality ,
which you desire. I
Telephone and run- /
ning water in all /
rooms. Book accom- /
modation early. —"
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
' % ed an <*
° re *kfast
. tariff
lf desired i
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 86611 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
Usherotel,” Sydney.
A BORIGIN
ALITIES
THE DEAL.
BOSS: “What is that cove looking so pleased, with himself about?”
STOCKMAN : “He just bought a horse cheap.”
BOSS: “Well, what are you grinning about?”
STOCKMAN: “Oh, I sold it to him.”
Trallwm”: Chance and a book-keeping
job made me a participant in a quick strike
settlement. For years potatoes had been dug
in peace in one of the Little Irelands of
Victoria. This year the rate was Is. the
bag, then arrived a stranger who told how
another penny or twopence might be obtained
by organisation and solidarity. They served
the demand on me. “Won’t dig for a shil-
ling? asked the boss when I told him.
VV ell, pay ’em off!” “And now what?” I
said, the 50 astonished men having received
their time. “Put up a notice on the store
window, ’ lie said, “calling for spud-diggers.”
At a shilling?” said I. “No,” he snapped,
' at eleven-pence!” Next day the strikers
went back at .eleven-pence and they finished
a heavy season at that. The stranger went
head-first into the creek and then back to
Melbourne per boot.
*** * .
‘ Tamornie”: In the Hansa Bay district
of the Mandated Territory is practised a
form of wizardry known as Sangoma. The
secrets are held by only a few of
the old men, who exercise their
arts for those who can pay well.
A dart is made from the mid-rib
of a cocoanut leaf, stained and
decorated with scraps of feathers.
The wizard hides beside a track
which the intended victim is known
to use often, and as he passes the
dart is thrown at his back. Sharp
as a needle, it pierces the skin
and hangs therefrom. In not more
than three days the animated
target is dead —from fear. No
poison is used. This form- of
wizardry is employed almost exclusively to
square matters with a thief who is too clever
or too skilful with weapons to be dealt with
summarily.
* * * *
“Cadonga”: This was told me by the
heroine herself. Many years ago her husband
was a boundary-rider on a station in far
y estern Queensland. She was ironing some
clothes in the bark kitchen of her lonely hut
one day when the doorway was suddenly
darkened by the figure of a gentleman abo-
riginal, naked and unashamed. Binghi, after
the usual request, “Gibbit ’bacca,” sidled
into the hut and warmed his back at the
fireplace. The alarmed housewife went on
ironing as calmly as she could, and then
stepped tp the fire to change irons. Seizing
the hot iron, she applied it swiftly to the
posterior of the uninvited guest. Binghi
jumped so high that his head struck one of
the sapling beams, and then with wild yells
he dashed out of the door and streaked across
the landscape. Some years later when driv-
ing into Winton to catch the train to Bris-
bane, the buggy was bogged. A couple of
abos. approached and offered assistance, but
one of them on drawing near to the buggy
f/l°. wec * a strong inclination to beat a retreat.
Give the missus a hand to carry those
things,” commanded the boundary-rider.
SHE’D WATCHED CUSTOMERS TRY IT.
“I say, Miss, that bloke’s fish next door seems -pretty jar gone."
“Well, it’ll have to be nippy to get past old Nicholas at the door.”
Then noticing the nigger’s alarm, he asked
playfully, “What—you’re not scared of the
missus, are you?” "My word, Boss, missus
slap too hard!” announced the fearful black.
It was the importunate visitor of long ago,
and as he spoke he rubbed the seat of his
dungarees.
* * * *
“Wang”: “The jealousest bloke I ever
knew was a chap called Peter Parrot,” re-
marked old Dan. “All his life he was jeal-
ous of Charlie Baker. When they wus kids
at school Charlie was always higher in the
class, an’ at the sports Peter’d always finish
behind Charlie in the races. When they got
older they chased after th’ same girl an’
Charlie won. Peter useter go nearly mad
with rage, but he swore he’d get ahead of
Charlie some day, an’ he did at last—th’
day of th’ funeral.” “But that would be too
late to give him any satisfaction,” objected
one of the audience. “Oh, no, it wasn’t,”
chuckled old Dan. “Yer see it was Charlie’s
funeral and Peter wangled th’ job of drivin’
th’ hearse.”
* . * * *
“Billy See”: Old Jack the fossicker was a
bit down on his luck, so he took a job off
Skinner at stripping sandal-wood—3o bob
a week and tucker. Skinner was generally
known as One Potato Ned, and the rations
he provided filled Old Jack with disgust,
especially the tea, which was of the post-
and-rail variety. Pay-day came, and with
it Skinner on a visit of inspection. Sight-
ing a few strips of bark adhering to the
cleaned sandal-wood, he started to find fault.
“Hey, my man, this won’t do leaving the
bark on! Them Chinamen may be heathens,
but they know the difference between wood
and bark.” “Do they?” Old Jack snapped.
“Well, judging by the sort of tea you’re
sending me, they don’t seem to know the
difference between leaves and trunks.”
Jfc -!• -a
“Top Off” : Bingoola, the hereditary Poo-
bada, of Pot, the picturesque island that lies
just off the mainland to the west of East
Northland, proved a friend in need to that
well-known character Tobias Jugg, or “Toby,”
as the natives called him. Jugg got on the
jag with a mixture of hooch and hashish of
his own brewing and suddenly announced to
such of the inhabitants of Pot as chanced
to be within hearing that his name was
Queen Victoria, that he was the last de-
fender of Rorke’s Drift, and that he intended
to fight until there was nothing left of him
but his toes. He then commenced firing on
the people of _ Pot with a Liiger repeating-
pistol, which is a cross between a Colt and
a carbine and extremely leathal. Nobody
was hit, but as Jugg sat in a palm-tree com-
manding the whole length of the village
street, he was a sort .of obstruction to traffic,
lhe cry went up for Bingoola, who emerged
majestically from his pagoda only to pop back
precipitately as. a bullet shaved the top of
his ear A moment later Jugg fell flop from
the palm-tree and lay upon the sand in a
coma. Sizing up the situation from a peep-
hole, Bingoola, after waiting awhile, ven-
tured forth once more, his broad-bladed
spear m his hand. But it wouldn’t do to
spear Jugg, who was very useful. The chief
meditatively, his spear poised, while
r,,,ifi n< r 0< i °f heady eyes glowed expec-
tantly behind the huts. But the spear did
' Instead, Bingoola, having first
thoughtfully appropriated the Liiger used
his own weapon as a shovel and piled sand
!Si h if r v Umbent Jngg till nothing was
li ft? ™ the , top of his head and
Bingoola pricked the white
man delicately on the nose, so that he awoke
wSlv a i where A am Y r asked
weakly. You are Queen Victoria, and vou
have been defending Rorke’s Drift ” said
jjingoola blandly, “and now nothing’ is left
“It is°enm elf” Sec ; J speak the truth.”
ft is enough gasped Jugg, looking at the
“Honor is satis-
olf" °on«e
of ali n poiynesia h made him the ‘ wonder
* * * *
PalmerlN hfw rS ag0 * th ? blacks ion the
JLdimer were not only cannibals hnf-
«ms Sh \h ™ e ‘ their H-lahieS-of’ v b S
I ' They made no distinction as to
ah 0hmaman » white man and a bo were
d U , Same ; an <? many a miner was mur-
we" * h ? »l». larder. OttS.
„ e hamstrung, or had their i e£rs and
arms broken to prevent them escaping while
in reserve for future use. Another fav-
onte practice was to string these victims
hole* a .lawyer-vine threaded through
holes bored m the palms of their hands
Chinamen were considered a greaf delicacv’
Bmghi maintaining that their flesh did not
taste as salt as that of the white man.
(Continued on page 25 )
THE VOICES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Voices on the wind in the far waste places,
Echoing on the forward breeze, dying down
behind,
Bring dreams of desert ways and strange,
wild faces,
Blown along the blue waste, those voices
on the wind.
Strange, wild voices that are past under-
standing,
Keening through the tattered reeds round
the creek-bed dry.
Out above the flapping bark, the dead trees
standing
By the dry watercourses where the wind
rides high.
Only ghostly voices now, lost to all things
mortal ;
The first lone-lianded pioneers, the pros-
pector alone,
And the wandering dusky people that have
passed beyond the portal;
Dust about the desert and the sandhills
blown.
oices of the far-away, I hear the echoes
fleeting.
A whip-crack breaks the silence, a care-
less rider sings;
-hen latest, down the roads of air an engine’s
beating,
And dark against the sun set the ,wide
thrumming wings.
From hollows high with grasses in the green
good seasons,
From tall fern and frondage in the cool
river rain,
From the iron hills, the torment of the red
drought’s treason,
So they came aed so they went and will
not come again.
Airman, tramp, explorer and the lone out-
riders,
Their names are writ in water, scrawled
m sand or carved in stone,
And the wild flowers are above them and the
weaving spiders,
But Australia holds their secrets and Aus-
tralia keeps her own.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


YOU
l» l\ s o
MORE
01*
)K
IYIUS -IHBIS
Made in Australia,
Ilian foranyolher make
Remember this when you buy a
tyre. Remember, that in both
tread and tyre body. . . .the two
main parts of a tyre. . . .the
superiority of Goodyear Tyres
can be demonstrated, and is proved
by the fact that more people, the
world over, ride on Goodyear
Tyres than on any other make.
And remember, always, that
Goodyear Tyres and Tubes, made
in Australia, cost no more than
any other make.
ASK YOUR GOODYIAR DfAIIR lOR A DIMONSTRAIION ON HIS SUPtRIWIST CORD MACHINE—


Sfjw
a
Siuvift-Top
dry gin
| Hill
tt
ir "11,111.1!
*?M v 5
Ohe Best
Basis is
BOLf
SILVER TCP
DRY<iIN
IPATCT^
JK
i»i*SSSs® ,i ss£
»«wSf
m
jf*<
r/i
jJtM
W-
COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
The Wool World
Meets at SCOTT’S
Since the days of the State’s earliest wool sales,
Scott's Hotel has always been recognised as the
meeting place in Melbourne of Pastoralists, Wool Buyers,
and Stock and Station Agents, the leading Station Sales
being held there. “Scott’s” is situated adjacent to all the
leading wool houses, and is equipped with every modern
convenience, including electric fans, electric fires, and
intercommunicating telephones in all bedrooms.
Telegrams: “Scottsotel, Melbourne”
’Phone: Central 9011 (10 lines)
JH
Jack O’Fail”: In all trades there are
a few hoary-headed old jokes they play on
the new apprentice. In the building trade
they send him round to the merchant for a
tin of striped paint, or a dozen bolt-holes,
and m an engineering shop the neophyte goes
to the store with an order for double-ended
rivets. The lad who has chosen house-
paintmg for an avocation is gravely informed,
THE PERJURER.
BOUNDARY RIDER: “What’s the big row all about, eh, Mick?”
MALLEE MICK: “Mary say she only gammon sweethearts with ’nother pheller. By
cripes, mine tinkit they NO gammon.”
as he labors at his first job with a brush,
that he s laying the paint on wrong side out.
When I worked in a bicycle repair shop
years ago the newcomer was always sent to
the boss for a loan of his left-handed spanner,
and m all the handicrafts I ever toiled at
the leather-headed hammer had a place in
the repertoire.
“ J.D.L.”: The theory that fowls can be
mesmerised by pressing their heads down in
front of a white line has been amplified in
Auckland (M.L.), where it is claimed horses
have been hypnotised in the same way. White
lines have been drawn on the asphalted
streets to mark the course of traffic. A
traffic inspector on point duty signalled a
driver to pull up in front of the line, which
lie did; but when, on receiving the signal
to move on, he urged the horse, he found the
animal would not move. A bystander then
took hold of the reins and pulled them, but
the horse still refused to budge, showing signs
of the most abject fear. Eventually, still
in a state of tremor, he backed on to the
pavement and broke two plate-glass shop
windows. The traffic inspector said it was
not the first instance of the kind which
had come under his notice.
* * * *
“Huffin-Guffin” : The “long paddock" is no!
the only place in which sheep-owners have
had, in some instances, close on a century
of cheap feed. On the old sheep stations of
Western Vic. there were thousands of acres
of “closed roads.” These were roads sur-
veyed through the squattages but never
fenced off. The original surveys in most
instances provided for a road bounding every
square mile. They were all included in the
station paddocks. On an estate of, say,
20,000 acres there were, perhaps, only one
or two open roads. The squatter claimed
full control over the rest. One could not
camp, or even cut a stick of firewood, with-
out risk of being hunted off. In compara-
tively .recent years a small rent has been
collected for them.
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: My native shepherd
seemed so keen on making the life of his
most useless tyke a misery that I inquired
why he did not shoot the hound. “Werra,”
Henare replied, “I hafe te six tries; but
every time I point te gun te prurry kuri wag
his tairra [tail].”
H= * * *
“Berhantu”: Out of the ring a second
while I deal with “Bouragi” (B. 25/9/’29).
When he has spent as long a time as I have
on both sides of the Australian-controlled
border, he’ll give up his air of omniscience.
The blowpipe (which I have seen as the
“sumpitan” in its Malayan home) occurs in
several localities in the Mandated Territory.
If “Bouragi” wants proof let him look up
the 1925 Anthropological Report of that Ter-
ritory, by E. W. P. Chinnery, and he’ll find
photographs. Wasn’t it “Bouragi,” too, who
put over that stuff about the “pure English”
of the Papuan native as against the “ghastly
pidgin” of the Mandated Territory? If he
will turn to the story pages of The Bulle-
tin and read Turnbull’s “Paradise Plumes”
he’ll see the dinkum language of both.
* * * *
“G.8.L.”: Although Dampier saw and
described the kangaroo in the seventeenth
century, it was Cook who gave the creature
its name. Where he got it from is a mystery.
It isn’t Abo. lingo. Here’s a list of abo.
names for the hopper—they "vary with every
tribe : Chukuro, jira, gori, tyurra, murri, birin-
gun, banda, turlta, tjerka, kurnabulla, bel-
lata, brundah, pangela, arinya, tumulla, bam-
burr, boolgana, koolbirra, koonegera, koora-
mook, korangi, matumba, minya, murrawai,
narragoon, waroo, yunkera, booroo, boon-
dara, bygoo, koorooman, bundoon, booroo.
* * * *
“Copabella”: Now that every cocky
aspiring to be up-to-date has a harvester
there must be a host of old strippers being
put to new uses. The roomy, ideally
ventilated, weather-defying portable iron
house can be made to serve many turns.
A mate and I occupied one as a bedroom
for months while watching a boundary.
Knew others used respectively as kitchen
JUGRAPHY.
TEACHER: “Where’s Hobart?”
STUDENT: “Please, Miss, on the jam-tins.”
and fowlhouse, and an enterprising small-
holder on a road much traversed by motorists
turned one of the adaptable machines into
a wayside stall from which to sell home-
made cookies and garden truck, the propped-
up door acting as verandah. More ordinary
uses are as rat-proof storehouses and bins,
and as kiddies’ cubby-houses. In one case,
backed up against a window, a stripper
became a spare bed —a double one, too!
* * * *
“Hayband” : .Chaff-cutting on the big steam
plants that cut for
market is hard yak-
ker. The stack-man
has to fork up to 30
to 40 tons of sheaves
per day, frequently
against a w r ind. If he
lags, the rattling clat-
ter of the empty, rac-
ing cutter lets the
whole paddock know.
The feeder, who con-
trols and guides this
flood to the tearing,
steel-teethed rollers,
has a hot and lonely
job. Dangerous, too.
Those hungry, gleam-
ing rollers which,
under a pressure of
half a ton, wind the
hay through to the
swis h i n g 1000-a-
-minute knife - wheel
just behind, would as
relentlessly wind his
arm through, of which
gory fact many a one-
armed bushman is bit-
terly aware. As for
the two men behind
the machine, the sewing
and stacking of up to
800 bags each, averag-
ing a hundredweight,
in a day, is one of
the heaviest jobs in
the bush. The hours
are magpie to mopoke
—and not a dilatory magpie nor a too
previous mopoke.
* . * * #
“Country Ped”: In the argument as to
whether trees carry marks upward as they
grow, the point missed by both sides is
whether the tree referred to is immature or
mature. Trees grow only to a certain height,
according to their species. After that the
branches simply spread out, or new growth
replaces dead wood. But a growing tree
will carry the marks upward, as any fencer
who has used one as a strainer-post knows.
A tree that has carried marks upward can
be seen outside the blacksmith’s shop at
Myola, on the Murray-road (Vic.). About
30 years ago the blacksmith bolted the felloe
of a dray-wheel to the trunk of the tree,
about three feet from the ground. To-day
that piece of wood is well out of reach.. It
has not gone higher within the last eight
years, which suggests that the tree has
now finished growing upwards.
* * * *
“Biro”: The reason sheep don’t get
tangled up in new wire fences, as kangaroos,
dingoes, foxes and emus do, seems to be that
sheep take no liberties with fencing in any
circumstances. When a new fence is being
erected sheep will feed right up to the line
of posts, and, though no wire is through
them, they will not attempt to pass be-
tween, even for water!
# * * *
“Lamia”: An ingenious and typically
Oriental method is employed by the Chinese
when exporting goldfish. The fish, myriads
of them, are placed in large wooden tubs
about sft. in depth. On a wooden stool
higher than the tub sits a coolie. His job is
to keep the water in the tub in perpetual
motion. This he does by incessantly dip-
ping two wooden blocks into the water. In
this wise the water is aerated and the fish
are bluffed into believing they are swimming
in real waves. Should a fish turn over on
his back and show his white waistcoat,
the coolie picks him out and flings him over-
board. The moving of the waters goes on
night and day until the goods are finally
delivered, coolies working in shifts.
* * * *
“Wingella”: The average Territorial!
doesn’t put much faith in the yarn about
white women among the blacks of the North.
The report is that the blacks killed all the
young children, but kept the mother and
oldest girl alive. That is just what the
N.T. blacks wouldn’t do. They are, as a
rule, passionately devoted to children, and
any white child among the niggers would
be assured of the utmost care and attention
from the blacks, even if adults were neglected
or ill-treated.
* * * *
“Haybahd”: Here’s an instance where
kindness to dumb friends paid a dividend.
I walked across a paddock with a man who
mixed farming and chaff-cutting. Here and
there were old bullocks feeding in pairs.
They were leaders that, had been pensioned
off. Next day a team-hauled the farmer’s
threshing-machine alongside a small stack,
and then left with a chaff-cutting plant. An
hour later there was an alarm of fire ; the
stack blazed up, and the situation looked
desperate. But two pairs of the pensioned
leaders were feeding handy. In 30 seconds
the yokes were on them, and in another 30
the nearly-new £7OO thresher was hauled
from the blazing stack into safety. To tug
three tons out of chocks and away was a
mighty performance for- four aged hornies,
but they put their backs into it.
THE OLD BUSH COOK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve been cooking in shearers’ and rousies’
huts
Since the shearing of ’eighty-three,
But in days like these there’s little chance
For an old bush cook like me.
You won’t see spuds in their jackets now,
Or a brownie that’s really brown;
So I’m folding my cap and old apron up
And thinking of settling down.
I remember the day when a shearer’s pay
Was a pound for a hundred sheep ;
And rouseabouts worked through a six-day
week
For twenty-five bob and keep.
There was singing and euchre and crib at
night;
We all seemed happier when,
With just a slushy to lend a hand,
I’ve cooked for seventy men.
Now it’s bustle and rush ; when a shed cuts
out
In an hour they are all away.
They’re off to cover a hundred miles
And be shearing again next day.
You seldom hear songs in the hut at night
Or a line of the old bush bards.
There are crossword puzzles and cigarettes
Instead of the games of cards.
They’ll want coffee and cakes ere they go
to bed.
’Twas different in ’eighty-three
When I’d give them a basin of sugar tarts
And a bucket of steaming tea.
They’d light their pipes with a waxen match,
r The plugs that they smoked wrnre black.
You’d find no packets of fine-cut blend
Those days in the huts Outback.
I’m going to live on my pension now,
And I’m thinking of settling down
Where the gum-trees shadow' the river’s rim
By a little old-fashioned town.
I’ll spend most of my days with a fishing-
line,
My nights with a pipe and a book,
But I’ll often think, as I doze and dream,
Of the dinners I used to cook.
N.s.w.
JIM GRAHAME.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. .
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons. . . ,
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Refined girl (Q.), 25, nursing exp., needlewoman,
violinist, wants post lady’s companion, Islands or
N.S.W. country. Refs. —2827.
Youth (19), willing worker, 21 years’ exp. black-
smithing and horseshoeing, wants job station or farm.
Fare paid and small wage to start. —2811.
Ex-soldier (60), exp. Federal and Q’land income-
tax work, seeks position any class accountancy; on
station preferred.—2803.
Active couple and son (14) seek work together.
Wife cook, husband (ex-soldier) cook or handy-man,
boy mechanically inclined. Refs. —2805.
Wanted refined elderly woman to take charge of
home after Christmas; 2 adults and 2 children, 6
and 3. Good home, every convenience, car, small
salary.—2784.
Accountant (Tas.), 25, robust, wants opportunity
to go farming or orcharding. Refs. —2809.
Man, 21, hotel and club exp., wants work; any-
thing, anywhere. Refs. —2779.
Youth, banking and financing exp., wants position
book-keeper station, northern S.A. or Broken Hill. —
2832.
Ex-hotelkeeper (Vic.), married, no family, long
exp., wants position as manager country or suburban
hotel. Refs. —2797.
Surveyor’s chainman, Sydney, prepared assist
office plot plans. Good computer and report-writer.
Go anywhere.—2796.
Refined girl, 23 (N.S.W.), healthy, capable and
adaptable, seeks position in country, any capacity.
Educated people preferred.-—2794.
Young man (22), Sydney, has toured England
and Continent, G.P.S. education, at present studying
law at Uni., private income, would like to travel
with gentleman or married couple. Nominal re-
muneration for secretarial duties.—2799.
Ex-Government servant wants post as clerk, plan-
tation overseer or manager in Papua or Mandated
Territory. Refs. —2712.
Elderly man, 15 years last post (mine captain,
India), with lifetime exp. of mining, wants position
in New Guinea. —2719.
Man (20), strong, good rider, two years’ exp.
N.S.W. sheep station, wants job among cattle or
sheep, Q’land or N.T. —2732.
Competent working housekeeper wanted for seaside
home, 22 miles Sydney.—2770.
Educated youth (N.S.W.), exp. cattle, wants pos.
W. Q’land or N.T. cattle station; refs. —2771.
Educated man, ex-jackeroo, slightly deaf, seeks
position on the land; small salary.—2752.
Bachelor (24) wants to hear from educated young
man, interested in literature and music, who would
like to be working companion on small N.S.W. sheep
station. —2775.
To buy Lawson’s “Send Round the Hat,” and
“Joe Wilson and His Mates.” —2774.
Wanted to buy, in Brisbane, newsagency and
stationer’s shop.—-2738.
To buy novels in two or three volumes.—2781.
To buy Webster’s “International English Diction-
ary.” State price and edition.—2816.
To buy early Australian voyages, copies of early
Australian newspapers, any A.I.F. publications, and
Scott’s “Terre Napoleon.”—2792.
To buy Stevenson’s “Pentland Rising,” Hardy’s
“Two Little Blue Eyes,” Lindsay’s “Magic Pudding,”
Conrad’s “Aylmer’s Folly,” Kipling’s “Jungle Books”
(1895), and books published prior to 1660. —2793.
Words of “The Red Fisherman.” —2751.
Collector of sea chanties wants words of chanties
or books containing same. (To J. M. Harvey, 15
Edith-street, Unley Park, S.A.)
Words of “Reminiscences of the People,” by
Beranger, beginning “France shall sing Napoleon’s
glory.”—2717.
Suggestions for Christmas presents to be made by
free kindergarten children, three to six, for their
parents.—27-26.
Exchange pieces of Chamberlain Worcester and old
French china for Toby jugs, lustre or decorative
plates.—2777.
To exchange sporting books, “Australian Turf
Registers,” various dates, also Day’s “Racehorse in
Training,” for others. —2762.
Exchange about 40 years’ Bulletins, unbound,
few copies missing; good order, for piano, gramo-
phone or similar articles. — 2724.
Englishwoman (Sydney), wants to hear from
English readers, 45-55, anywhere.—2749.
Radio operator wants to correspond with anyone
in England or America interested in sound reproduc-
tion and room acoustics.—2708.
Information Sought.
I had two share certificates in a N.S.W.
public co. which I cannot find. Can I get
duplicates and how? —2776.
First, have another look. If you still draw
a blank write to the secretary telling him
the circumstances. He will, no doubt, ask
you to sign (1) an indemnity protecting the
co. against loss in the event of the first
certificates turning up; (2) a declaration,
to be made before a J.P., that the documents
have been lost or stolen and that you have
searched and cannot find them.
What is meant by blood pressure, and what
is the cause and the symptoms? Is it dan-
gerous, and can it be cured by dieting and
medicine? —2482.
It is an increase of force in the fiow_ ot
the blood through super-hardened ’ arteries.
The causes are many, the chief one being
over-work (especially brain work), lack of
rest, faulty diet and over-feeding, too much
alcohol, kidney disease, etc. Symptoms range
from mild headache and giddiness to a
“stroke.” It can be considerably relieved
by rest and careful attention to the amount
and kind of food taken. Medicine is of value
in some cases.
Who and what was Rizal?— 2381.
Jos6 Rizal was -one of the Filipino leaders
of the revolt against Spanish rule in the
Philippine Islands. He was author of the
novel “Noli me tangere,” a masterly piece
of political satire. As a result of his re-
formist activities he suffered persecution
and exile, and finally was executed by Gen-
eral Palavieja’s orders in December, 1896.
How did the (1) Red, (2) Black, (3)
Yellow and (4) Dead Seas get their names /
—2432.
(1) So called by the Greeks and
Romans, perhaps because it was the sea ot
Edom (“the red man”) ; perhaps because
the shore is a red sand, or perhaps because
the waters are reddened by red seaweeds or
a red bottom. (2). So named by the Turks
on account of its black rock. (3) Probably
got its name from the fact that the Yellow
River (Hwang Ho), a very yellow, muddy
river, empties into it. (4) Derived its name
either from the absurd theory first found in
Josephus that Sodom and Gomorrah were
beneath its waters, or from the fact that on
account of its saltness, fish cannot live in it,
the absence of sea-birds and the lack of vege-
tation on its shores.
Does the Federal Government financially
assist migrants from (1) England, (2) other
countries? (3) Has it assisted migrants
from other countries at any time? (4)
Amount expended? —24l3. _ _
(1) In conjunction with the British Gov-
ernment, it contributes towards the cost of
passages to Australia of persons resident in
Great Britain who have been requisitioned
for, or whose nomination has been approved
by a State Government. (2) No. (3) In
a few cases of British subjects residing in
other Dominions, such as Canada, and South
Africa, who have been nominated for
assisted passages by close relatives. (4) The
total expenditure by the Commonwealth in
connection with passage money contributions
up to June 30 last was £1,482,385 19s. 9d.
(1) How many whaling licenses have been
issued by the N.Z. Government for whaling
in the Ross Sea? (2) How long are such
licenses issued for? (3) Market value
( average ) of whale oil for last seven years?
—2657.
(1) Only one, to the Rosshavet Whaling
Co., operating in the Ross Sea. The Gov-
ernment has also undertaken to issue the
Pacific and Ross Sea Whaling Co. a license
covering whaling in the Ross Sea and Bal-
leny Islands. (2) Twenty years. (3) For
No. 1 oil, 1923, £32 15s. per ton; 1924,
£34 10s. 9d. ; 1925, £35 3s. 9d.; 1926, £33
30s. 5d.; 1927, £27 10s.; 1925, £2B 145.;
1929, £3O. The average price over the
period was approximately £3l 15s. per ton.
Higher-grade oils, Nos. 0 and 00, command
much higher prices.
(1) Is a returned soldier in receipt of
full award wages entitled, under any con-
sideration, to draw a pension? (2) If not,
what should such a man do who has been
drawing both for some time? —2s99.
(1) Yes. The pension is compensation
for war disabilities. If the pension is not
in excess of £4 4s. per fortnight, the earn-
ings are disregarded. (2) If the pension is
£8 per fortnight (special rate) and he is
earning other than a negligible percentage
of a living wage, he is bound to advise the
Deputy Commissioner of the Repatriation
Department, Chalmers-street, Sydney.
I am growing cocoanuts on an island. (1)
Would it be advisable to instal a pumping
plant and flood the whole area with salt
water to keep the grass clear round the
palms? (2) Where can pumping plants be
purchased ? —2363.
(1) No. It would be more profitable to
keep the grass mown and allow it to mulch
down. (2) Pumping plants can be pur-
chased from any reputable machinery firm
in Sydney or Brisbane.
(1) Why does the Australian press refer
to the Old Country as England? (2) Arc
these terms correct: English Parliament,
English Court, English Navy? (3) Is Scot-
land a nation, or is she now the northern part
of England? (4) Was Earl Haig an English
or a British Field-Marshal? (5) Would it
be correct to say he was a Scottish Field-
Marshal?— 2387.
(1) “England” is used as a generic term
for our race and nation principally because
it is short and convenient; also because the
Empire is ruled by an English sovereign.
(2) No, as regards Parliament and Navy;
yes, as regards a court, if it is an English
court. (3) Scotland has a separate official
entity as a Kingdom within the Empire,
the same as England. (4) He. was a Field-
Marshal of the British Army. (5) Yes, if
all you mean to imply is that he was a
Scot by birth.
A man dies, leaving onc-tliird of his estate
to his wife, two-thirds to his only daughter,
nothing to his only son. The wife is step-
mother to the daughter and son. There is
a proviso that his wife has the right to
live in his home during her lifetime. Two
years prior to his death he made a gift of
Commonwealth Bonds to his daughter. At
his death he had only £2OO in money. Two
weeks after his death his daughter died. She
left her share of the home to a hospital, the
balance of her estate to her only brother.
Has the brother the right to two-thirds of
the £2OO that the father left to the daughter?
Has the stepmother any legal claim on any
portion of the bonds that vjere a gift from
the father to the daughter?. —l76B.
The only claim the son appears to have
(and that, of course, depends on circum-
stances) is that by the father’s disposition
of property under his will, he, the son.
has been left without adequate provision for
his proper maintenance. As to the step-
mother’s claim on any portion of the bonds,
it does not appear, on the facts stated, that
she has any in law.
(1) How is carbide of calcium manufac-
tured? (2) Is a carbide the opposite of an
oxide? (3) Has the residue taken from the
tank of an acetylene lighting system and used
as a whitewash any deleterious effect on
galvanised-sheet iron ? —2359.
(1) Calcium carbide is made by heating
in an electric furnace a mixture of liigli-
quality burnt lime and carbon. (2) A car-
bide is a chemical compound which contains
only carbon combined with one other element.
An oxide contains oply oxygen and one
other element. (3) No more harm than
ordinary slaked lime.
I own a house, which is paid for, and I
have the title-deeds. Are any legal formalities
necessary on my part if I wish to sell it l
Could I simply hand over the deeds on
receipt of the 'purchase money? —2ss2.
It rests with the purchaser to see that
the land is legally transferred to him, and
for that purpose you should, on receipt ot
purchase money, hand him the certificate ot
title.
Where could I procure a very small young
monkey, a similar type to that seen on a
barrel-organ? Also an idea as to what the
cost of same would be? —2397. _
The importation into Australia, of wild or
undomesticated animals is prohibited except
for the purpose of exhibition, under Federal
Quarantine Proclamation No. 156. Further-
more, N.S.W. Stock Regulations prohibit
zoos from disposing of monkeys except to
other zoos or circuses, and then only under
special circumstances. On no account are
they allowed to sell them to the public.
Will you please give the formula for com-
puting compound interest? —2780.
Find simple interest on principal for first
year, add interest to original principal to
find new principal; work out simple interest
for second year. Repeat process for required
number of years. Then deduct original prin-
cipal ; balance is the compound interest.
(1) On the N.S.W. railways, what is the
size of the wheels on the carriages, and is
there any difference between these wheels and
those oh the waggons? (2) Are rails on
electric railways thermit-welded? (o) What
gap is left between the rails? —2497. -
(1) All the same diameter, 3ft. on the
tread, and interchangeable except electric-
motor bogie-wheels, which are 3ft. 6m.
diameter. (2) No. (3) Varies according to
weather conditions, Jin. in winter and gin.
in summer. In practice, owing to creep,_ it
is possible for this gap to be as much as fm.,
and this is corrected from time to time.
(1)7/ two fluids of equal volume but of dif-
ferent temperatures are mixed together, what
is the resultant temperature of the mixture—
the mean or less? (2) Are there any formula
for calculating temperatures of mixtures of
various fluids of various degrees of tem-
perature? —2549. . „ .
(1) If the fluids are identically the same
the resultant temperature of the mixture will
be the mean. If the fluids are not identically
the same the temperature of the mixture will
depend on the specific heats of the individual
fluids. (2) Yes. The formulae are described
at length in textbooks on heat.
(1) What chances of employment and
what positions would he available for a boy
after passing the final exam, in mining and
metallurgy at Sydney Uni. f (2) Remunera-
tion and chances of promotion? (3) Names
of employers of metallurgical chemists ? —
2466. ' ~
(1) A few chances of employment would
be available, but there is not much metal-
liferous mining now in Australia. Broken
Hill, Tas. and Q’land still offer opportunities,
and so do the new goldfields developing m
New Guinea. (2) About £3OO per annum
to start. Promotion depends on the indi-
vidual. (3) The Broken Hill Prop. Co.
appoints Uni. graduates to cadetships and
trains them for the fields which its work
embraces. A demand for young mining en-
gineers exists on the Asiatic tinfields, and
inquiries have been made recently by both
the Pratten-Newman group and the I ree-
man group. A few openings for graduates
who are prepared to join prospecting parties
occur in New Guinea and the Solomon
Islands.
Can shire councils in Vic. compel property-
holders in small towns to pay the whole cost
of making roads, footpaths and drainage m
streets abutting on their property? Can the
councils compel the ratepayer’s to have such
footpaths and roads if the ratepayers do not
want them? —2427.
Local Govt. Act 1915 (Vic.) empowers a
council to construct streets on private prop-
erty for access to or drainage from adjacent
property. It may recover the cost from
owners whose premises abut on the street, or
who benefit by the use of it. This* is subject
to the proviso that the street has not pre-
viously been formed in accordance with the
Act. Owners may lodge objection for the
council’s consideration.
(1) What were the six leading primary
industries in Australia for the year ending
June 30, 3928, as regards value of produc-
tion? (2) What were the six leading second-
ary industries for the same period? —2Sl9.
'(3) Wool, £73,634,000; meat, £35,412,079;
wheat, £31,895,047: butter, £21,852,177:
eggs and poultry, £31.247,869; orchards and
fruit gardens, £9,037,223. (2) Engineering,
ironworks and foundries, £26,700,725;
metal extraction and ore reduction,
£16,872,015: railway and tramway work-
shops, £16,338,583; printing and binding,
£16,192.277 ; timber, £11,994,470; boots and
shoes, £9,586,828.
Does Anybody Know ?
Alongside is a
picture of E. C.
Treloar, who mys-
teriously dis a p-
peared from North
Sydney seven weeks
ago—he left busi-
ness (Moran and
Cato’s) for lunch
and never return-
ed. He may have
lost his memory.
Have you seen him
in your town?
There is £lOO for
anybody who
locates him.—
2751 a.
How to make an effective dingo decoy?—
2765.
Brief Answers.
■C.Y.: You are legally compellable to
meet it both as to the kerbing and the asphalting;
payment of rates does not exempt you. . . .H.J.8.:
It could be done in one transfer from the original
holder to B by direction of A. A must be a party
to the transfer... .N.A.0.: (1) Consult “A Research
on the Eucalypts,” by Baker and Smith, published
by N.S.W. Govt. Printer, Sydney. (2) Will answer
later. . . .L.K.: Get in touch with L. V. Hind,
Corrie-road, Manly (N.S.W.) A.S.: So far
as we can trace, reproductions of G. Lyall Trindall’s
“Thetis” are not obtainable in Australia. .. .J.P.C.:
Neither has any value... .J.H.F.: It is a reliable
edition but does not command a special price....
A.W.D.: There is no British law against the
meetings of Masonic societies... .H.M.C.: (1) Ralph
Abercromby, Ltd., Clarence and King streets, Sydney.
(2) A good tobacco gives added enjoyment to the
smoker, but what constitutes good tobacco is a matter
of taste. The effects of various brands of tobacco
on the health of smokers have never been tested.
(3) Approximately 10 to 121 per cent, of the
tobacco consumed in Australia is raised 10ca11y....
J.J.C.: “Guide to Eastern Tin Stocks,” issued by
Pring and Docker, Pitt and Hunter streets, Sydney.
A.K.S.: James Rogers, 449 Wattle-street, Sydney.
. ...P.M.: Cannot locate supply. Natural fermenta-
tion is the most approved method. .. .V.J.: The
hens will be later coming on to lay next season,
but if they lay in time to set the eggs, they can
be used. The pullets and hens can be mated, as
suggested, but this should not be done as a regular
practice... .M.F.H.: The symptoms are those of
catarrh, and the fact that the dog has become
emaciated points to severe throat trouble. Administer
a laxative such as castor- or olive-oil. Give five
grains of chlorate of potash in a teaspoon of
water twice daily. If the dog becomes very weak,
give a half teaspoon of port-wine in water twice
daily. If practicable, consult a vet H.J.M.: It
is essential that the contract should disclose “con-
sideration,” that is something given, done, suffered,
or refrained from by the one party in return for the
promise of the other party. Where the agreement
is only evidence of a contract, then, irrespective
of the amount involved, the duty is Is. and the
stamp has to be impressed at Stamp Duties Office,
150 Phillip-street, Sydney. You do not state the
subject matter of the agreement, but it is presumed
you do not refer to land. Agreements relating to the
sale of goods, wares and merchandise are exempt from
duty... .M.R.R.: It is against the law for a private
person to import a monkey to Australia; and in
N.S.W. at any rate, there are difficulties in the way
of purchase except for purposes of exhibition....
F.H.0.: A mere comparison of premiums is no
good. What matters is net premium—that is,
premium less the bonus or rebate... .J.M.8.: East
Greta closed early this year through water seepage;
its Merthyr mine closed March 1, and no production
since. Co. had liquid assets i£74,852, but liabilities
£104,132. Future very doubtful.... Six Percent:
No. But you .could get 1 p.c. more on debentures
that are practically always saleable.... F. J.M.: It
is not worded with legal exactitude, but appears to
be sufficient to convey clearly the testator’s inten-
tion, the only property being a sum of money....
J.T.: You should not allow him to acquire a pre-
scriptive right of user. Once a year, or more fre-
quently, close the road to traffic for a day or two
and notify him of this assertion of ownership. Keep
copies of any correspondence... .H.0.H.: It is in the
method of training. It is possible to train any
apple-tree on that system... .B.B.: Arts and Crafts
Society of Vic., 323 Bourke-street, Melbourne, may
stock the article you require. .. .J.A.M.L.: “Birds
and Green Places,” by A. H. Chisholm, Angus and
Robertson or Dymock’s, Sydney (155.) ... .G.C.W.:
“Hunting Under the Microscope,” by Shipley, N.S.W.
Bookstall Co., Sydney (12s. 6d.) .E.J.N.: Pre-
ference to unionists, unemployment in the maritime
trade and the fact that crews are signed on for
the round journey, are obstacles in the way of work-
ing your passage, but you might try your luck with
the various shipping cos R.H.: A motor-boat
which plies for hire must have a N.S.W. Navigation
Department’s certificate, and the person in charge
must hold a coxswain’s and driver’s licenses. Secretary,
Department of Navigation, Sydney, will supply details
on application... .Norseman: The N.S.W. Department
of Education considers that any officer who has had
a bad mark may retrieve his position subsequently
by doing satisfactory work.... J.R.M.: At the 1921
census it was estimated that there were 17,157 full-
blooded Chinese in Australia... .F.P.: You could
make a start with McDougall’s “An Outline of
Psychology” (165.), Woodworth’s “Psychology: A
Study of Mental Life” (11s. 6d.), Stout’s “Manual
of Psychology” (16s. 6d.), and James’s “Text-book
of Psychology” (145.)... .C.T.S.: (1) The P. and O.
Branch Service will carry dogs. (2) Melbourne,
Adelaide, Fremantle, Colombo, Port Said, Malta,
Plymouth and London. (3) Six months. (4) From
£3B to £46. Price for carrying dogs, £7 7s. It
is necessary for the owner of a dog introducing it
to England to first write to the Department of
Agriculture and Fisheries, London, for permission.
This must be obtained before the dog will be allowed
to leave Australia... .G.R.: Apply to the Clerk of
Petty Sessions, Tenterfield. Regulations are printed
on the back of licenses... .S. E. de L.: Submit a
sample of the water to an analyst, stating the pur-
pose for which it is to be used. He will advise
best method of purification... .V.A.H.: The coin is
fairly common and is catalogued at 2s G.R.:
Send a photograph of the table to Lyster Ormsby,
235 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, and he will appraise
its value for you J.L.S.: It appears to be a
medal commemorative of the Freedom of Poland.
. ...P.A.: No data available... .C. A.: (1) No, but
full particulars should be furnished in a covering
letter when making an application for pensions
Nullec: Possibly the horse is affected with founder
in the hind feet as the result of over-feeding on
wheat. Treatment is to stand the animal’s affected
feet in mud and immerse in cold water. Dig a
shallow hole, placing soft dirt in the bottom to a
depth of a few inches and fill with water to a
depth of 6in. Treatment must be persisted in until
recovery is completed, the animal should be given
about four hours in the water and two hours out.
Bleeding would not be of any assistance F.C.0.:
May be an exceptionally large domestic cat gone
wild, or an enormous tiger-cat. If it is a tiger-cat,
its value, dead or alive, depends on whether it belongs
to a known species, or is new. If new it would be
worth from £5 upwards. The skin is of little
value unless it is accompanied by the skull and
includes the skin of the face, paws and tail. For a
skin of this kind, accompanied by the skull, the
Australian Museum, Sydney, would probably give a
fair price, which would depend upon the identity of
the animal and the condition of the skin and skull.
G.L.F.: (1) Members of N.S.W. Aborigines Pro-
tection Board are James Mitchell (chairman), E. B.
Darkness, S. Lasker, R. Dick, A. W. Green, B. J.
Doe and R. S. Vincent. (2) By the Govt, under
the provisions of the Aborigines Protection Act 1909.
(Many others mailed.)


OVERSEAS TRADE
DEPARTMENT OF
N \^
I
tyisil
BRITAIN’S
SHOWROOM
Australian Buyers in every class of
trade can see the products of Great
Britain in the trades in which they are
interested, collected under one roof
in either London or Birmingham
at the
BRITISH
INDUSTRIES
FAIR
For further particulars and cards of invitation
apply to the British Trade Commissioners at
Sydney or Melbourne.
WMSf. h
y. , yu
/Ail!
1
Hi
MB
oJ\('
r
© ©,
"What
c Aildre*v
sd
80-PEEP’ PRINT always looks
absolutely right for rompers,
overalls, jumpers and tunic
suits, because it is a “ really truly ”
Children’s fabric. It washes per-
fectly and is absolutely colour-fast.
* BO-PEEP' PRINT is 38 inches wide, and is obtainable in many
styles, designs and colourings. Sold by leading Drapers and 5/ores.
Produced by the makers of “ Tricoline ” —the equal to silk .
If any difficulty in obtaining, write IS
H. G. RANDELL,
Empire Chambers. 93 York Street, Sydney.
CBoSPeepCprint
Looks 4ooi
is Oood.
for Childrens Wear.
a." hternc&~ fabric.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
An Ideal Winter Home —The Most Sheltered Spot on the Harbor, with Private Beach and
Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds
and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4£ guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip *rom City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines).
Generous
Measure/
Complete sharing
kit with 2bladet
V-VTO
4i
iO2O
a.
21
Latest type “Valet*
Auto Strop Safety
Razor in neat and
serviceable case.
2 genuine “Valet”
Blades in plated
Blade Sheath.
“Valet” Strop and
Tube of Auto Strop
Shaving Cream.
'in
as
Wk
■Mo
m
■m.
mmm
m
Of all dealers for a limited period
only
“VALET”
/ Strop
Safety
Raswxr
Shaving
Cr^am
PHIPSON & COMPANY Ltd., 181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY


ii£
Weight
and
Quality
are factors in the
value of the stock. But purchasers’ business is to
Duy as cheaply as possible. Winchcombe Carson’s
business as salesmen is to see that their clients get
full value. Arid in that regard they are consistently
successful. Their energy, knowledge and determina-
tion in making sales is a complete safeguard for
owners’ interests.
CONSIGN CATTLE, SHEEP, LAMBS, TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Homebush Yards,
Sydney,
Enoggera Yards,
Brisbane.
1
WOOL SALES.
“Good Competition, but faulty wools still
irregular and difficult of sale.”
—S. M. Herald, 1719/29.
With the wool position as it is to-day, it is
imperative that sheep be kept in as good
condition as possible to enable them to grow
high-quality wool.
It has been proved by many Graziers that this can be done by the
constant use of
VITA-LICK.
VITA-LICK, LIMITED,
STOCK LICK SPECIALISTS,
107 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
PEAPES
clothe men AND their sons.
Write for a copy of PEAPES*
new Summer catalogue, just
issued—a guide to the season’s
most distinguished styles for
men and boys.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
MORE PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
In order to encourage farmers to pass
on to others the fruits of their observa-
tion and experience, “The Bulletin” will
give three prizes for the most helpful
contributions during the six months to
Dec. 31 next.
Points will be awarded for every con-
tribution submitted, if thought worthy and
whether printed or not, and two prizes—
the first of £25 and the second of £10—•
will be given to the winners of most
points.
A special prize of £5 will be given for
’-he best individual contribution.
Only contributions that are of practical
value to men on the land are asked for;
literary merit is not taken into account, so
long as the meaning is expressed plainly.
The prizes are in addition to the ordi-
nary payments made for all “Bulletin”
contributions.
O
HOWTO PLANT SUB. CLOVER.
“Pondo”: I speak of subterranean clover
as one who has had great success with it.
Ten years ago, with a property of 500 acres
in South Aus. that wouldn’t keep one cow
and one sheep, I began to study the habits
of different clovers, especially subterranean.
My immediate neighbor was a pessimist. He
told me he had gone to the trouble of clear-
ing and ploughing 50 acres, had cultivated
in a manner that left nothing to be desired
and had sowed it down with oats, adding 61b.
of sub. clover seed to the acre. Result, a good
crop of oats, but not a clover plant. And
our rainfall is from 32 to 40 inches. I spoke
to a man at Mount Barker; his experience
was almost identical. But I learnt a couple
of things myself. The seed must not be
buried, and the seed-bed must be solid, if
not hard. Accordingly I set out to harrow a
couple of acres of poor land which was
immediately sown down with 51b. of selected
seed and lcwt. of super, to the acre. A drill
with the droppers merely dragging, followed
and brushed over by a green tree, did the
work. The crop was so wonderful that
visitors came from far and near to view it.
From that little plot I have sown nearly
400 acres. But my subsequent method was
not to pay 2s. 6d. per lb. for selected seed,
but merely to broadcast the burr, with lcwt.
of 45 per cent, super, to the acre. On ground
that hasn’t known a machine, the yield has
been such as to put aside all doubts as to
which is the best way to sow subterranean
clover.
What stock have we carried? Well, 1200
sheep on 60 acres for four months last year,
and then we turned them off ready for
market. We have been carrying 1000 sheep
since June this year.
MISTAKES IN HORSE FEEDING,
“P.W.D.”: One can waste a lot of horse
power through mistakes in watering and feed-
ing. The horse’s stomach is small and can
only deal with a little food at one time.
Consequently, when the animal is working
his food should be rich, but not bulky. A
kero.-tin is a good measure. Put in the
bottom a double handful of oats; ditto bran ;
fill up with good chaff. Give this breakfast,
dinner and tea. At 8.30 p.m. give two tins
of chaff without bran or oats. I have seen
men fill the feeder with chaff; not only was
chaff wasted, but the animals, becoming
gorged, were hindered in their work. One
man I had would take a bag and fill the
feeders from it. Result, decreased work; and
the team fell away in condition.
If the horse is allowed to drink during
feeds you are courting trouble; it washes
the freshly-eaten food into the bowels before
it is in the right condition for them to
receive it, and fermentation is likely. H'orses
should be watered before feeding, not after.
The trough should be 50 to 80 yards from
the stable; for if a heated, sweating horse
is given a drink and put straight into the
stable, there is danger of a chill; but even
a 50-yard walk will usually prevent trouble,
though 80 yards is better.
WHAT’S BEST TO DO WITH STUBBLE
STRAW?
“F.S.A.”: I can’t agree with “Tumbe
Munda” (B. 25/9/’29) .that our cereal straw,
by the time harvesting is completed, “is
dead, bleached and perished, containing little
but crude fibre.” As a fact, Australian straw
compares favorably with the threshed straw
in America and Europe. For that reason
he is quite wrong in asserting that ‘the
digestible nutrients in our stubble straw
would not provide sufficient energy to digest
the crude fibre.” He is also wrong in con-
demning the use of molasses. I have for
months fed 15 horses, doing heavy farm-work,
on a 50-50 mixture of hay, chaff and “cocky”
chaff, to which was added 4 gallons of
molasses daily. Far from there being any
reaction, the horses developed glossy coats,
denoting perfect health. “Tumbe Munda”
is in error, too, in asserting that “the labor
of spraying” a paddock of stubble with a
molasses solution “would be required at a
season when time is money.” On the con-
trary, the spraying would be done after
harvest with a power-machine when labor
was available.
The relative feeding value of wlieaten straw
in comparison with wheaten hay is shown by
the following analyses (made by the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture), which give the
total nutrients: —
Pro- Carbo- Nutritive
Per 1001 b. Ash. tein. hydrates. Fat. Ratio.
Hay .. 6.3 8.0 49.8 2.2 1:7
Straw . . 5.6 3.8 49.0 0.9 1: 13
Hay contains 22.7 p.c. crude fibre, and
straw 29.2 p.c. The co-efficients of diges-
tion would be about 40 p.c. of the protein
content of hay, and 26 p.c. of that of! straw.
On the basis of digestible nutrients one ton
of hay would have the feeding value of
nearly three tons of straw. In working out
the relative costs of drought rations, Pro-
fessor Perkins (S.A. Dept, of Agric.)
regarded cereal straw as being worth half
as much as cereal hay. He has always
stressed its feeding value, and has advised
its conservation for emergency feeding in
lean periods.
As “Tumbe Munda,” however, has little
faith in any statement of fact from S.A., I
would bring the two following observations
by the N.S.W. Department of Agriculture
before his notice: (1) “For horses which are
not being worked straw can be quite use-
fully employed as feed, especially if made
palatable with molasses, which will also in-
crease its food value” ; (2) “Straw can be
very largely utilised in the feeding of sheep ;
and while barley-straw is probably the best,
oat- and wheat-straw can both be made use
of. Its palatability is greatly increased and
its nutritive value raised if given with
molasses.”
Finally, “Tumbe Munda” is badly mis-
informed when he states that most of the
wheat grown in S.A. is Federation. The
Government Statistician discloses the inter-
esting fact that only 11 p.c. of the wheat
sown in the last year for which figures are
available was Federation.
What’s best to do with stubble straw?
Why, it’s worth 20s. to 30s. a ton, and it
should be converted into mutton and humus.
Burning is justified only when fungus
diseases are really bad.
HARD AND SOFT WHEATS.
“R. K. Deea”: As a general rule, a hard
wheat is, as the term denotes, a wheat hav-
ing a hard, translucent grain, whilst a soft
wheat is the variety yielding a plump, yel-
low, soft seed. Although there are excep-
tions, the hard wheats yield a slightly higher
percentage of flour than the soft varieties,
and the flour is much, stronger.
A true hard wheat —say one of the red
Indian wheats —will always give more bran
of a coarse flaky description than a soft
wheat, and it therefore follows that the soft
wheat yields more pollard, because the bran,
being soft, breaks up in milling. Wheat in
milling yields about 70 p.c. flour (more or
less), with approximately equal quantities
of bran and pollard—more bran, as a rule.
In Australia soft wheats are mainly
grown, but there is a tendency to cultivate
the stronger varieties.
The strength of a wheat will vary with
the gluten content, which, in turn, will vary
with any given wheat, all depending on the
soil, rainfall, season, manuring and harvest-
ing. A wheat of any description prepared
for show —all other considerations being
equal—will win or lose on its gluten content.
One of the tricks of the game is to blend
the wheat from two harvestings—that is to
say, 10 p.c. slightly immature and 90 p.c.
mature. By so doing, you make a certainty
of getting a proportion of “top” grains
slightly immature with an increase in the
gluten content. Of course, care must be
exercised that the immaturity is not too pro-
nounced, or the cat will be out of the bag.
Bakers like high-strength flour, because
the high gluten content permits them to
use more water, which means more loaves
per sack. By the way, immature grains of
some soft-wheat varieties, with their trans-
lucent appearance, may be mistaken for the
grains of a “hard” variety.
THE NUTRITIVE RATIO OF WHEAT-
STRAW.
“Noah Fraid”: To obtain the nutritive
ratio of any fodder, it is not correct to com-
pute it from the total nutrients. This
method will give the old-time albuminoid
ratio, which has been thrown aside in recent
years.
The nutritive ratio is calculated from the
available (digestible) nutrients by simply
dividing the percentage of digestible protein
(not proteids) into the sum obtained when
the percentage of digestible fat is multiplied
by 2.2 and added to the percentage of diges-
tible carbohydrates. For the sake of con-
venience the fibre is included with the nitro-
gen free extract (starch, sugar, etc.) under
the combined heading of carbohydrates.
The method will commend itself to any
stock-feeder, in that it is the available energy
(derived from the digestible part of the
fodder) which counts.
In a recent contribution (B. 7/8/’29) I
gave U.S.A. figures for the digestible nutri-
ents in wheat-straw (f.a.q.) as: Protein, 0.2
p.c.; carbohydrates (including fibre), 35.1
p.c.; and fat, 0.4 p.c. The U.S.A. figures for
the total nutrients not only compare favor-
ably with those of reputable Continental and
English authorities, but they approximate
very closely to the average analyses of 30
samples of true Australian wheat-straw.
In reply “F.S.A.” (B. 4/9/’29) states my
protein figure cannot be right, as the nutri-
tive or albuminoid ratio would be 1 to 220.
“F'.S.A.’s” calculcation is wrong. The nutri-
tive ratio calculated from the figures is 1
to 180; but if corrected for digestible pure
protein, the ratio would be 1 to 336.
Computing in the old-time way, using the
percentages of total nutrients, the albuminoid
ratio (which from the standpoint of feeding
is ridiculous) would be 1 to 26. “F.S.A.”
will admit that the latter figure for wheat-
straw is worthless.
When the wheat plant ripens there is a
rush of protein (gluten) to the grain, and
the non-protein nitrogen, for the most part,
is left in the straw; and “F.S.A.” has over-
looked the most important fact that non-
protein substances cannot be converted into
protein in the animal body. Animals must
obtain true protein from their fodder or they
will die. It is no use feeding them with
nitrogenous substitutes —they pass through
and are voided in the excreta.
For a while we fed our sheep in the Goul-
burn Valley (Vic.) during the 1902 drought
on the straw reserves (real straw, you know
—the stuff with a bright yellow glaze on
it), and then we sold them for “a bob a
time” to “a cove running a boiling-down and
manure joint.”
RICE AS SHEEP FODDER.
“S. Quire”: The natural feed for sheep
is grass, and when we are up against it, as
is the case in dry years, the scientific feeder
should buy fodder (roughage and concen-
trate) which, when blended, will give the
nearest approach to the natural food.
“Fred Rich” (B. 4/9/’29) gives an in-
stance of rice fed with wheaten-hay as a
sheep fodder. The amount of rice fed per
day is stated, but no mention is made of
the daily ration of hay. We must have this,
in the first place, because without it the
feeding cost cannot be calculated ; and, sec-
ondly, owing to the deficiency of rice in
mineral matter. This is the fly in the
ointment. Rice contains only one-fourth
the mineral content of oats, and mineral
deficiency is the cause of a lot of trouble.
There is no doubt, in so far as digestible
nutrients are concerned, that rice will make
an excellent substitute for maize or oats (at
the price), and the mineral deficiency of the
grain may be balanced by the amount of
wheaten-hay fed; but my' suggestion is to
feed rice-straw instead of the hay. The
digestible nutrients in rice-straw 'are as
follows :
Pure Protein, p.c. Oil, p.e. Carbohydrates, p.c.
1.2 l 30.8
This gives a nutritive ratio (digestible) of
1 to 27-5; and with an ash content (mineral
matter) of 10.3 per cent, what more does
a sheepman want?
DOES ROAD PASTURING PAY?
“John W. Qld.” : “Trallwm” (B. 11/9/’29)
is wrong in saying that pasturing sheep on
the road under pretence of travelling is cheap.
Experienced graziers know that the dearest
grass they can get is that on the road. The
drovers’ men are always paid more than
station hands. If contract, the boss drover
wants a price that will not only give him a
good wage, but also provide interest on cost
of plant and money for renewals, a fairly
big item. If the drover is a wages man his
pay will be equal to, if not higher than, an
overseer’s, and the station will have to provide
the plant. It takes two shepherds to handle
4600 sheep. A mob of 8000 would require
four shepherds, horsctailer, cook and drover—
seven men, all at high wages. On a big
station one boundary-rider would look after
at least three times that number.
Losses on the road are always higher than
in the paddock, and even in the best seasons
there is always the possibility of long stages
without water and stretches of road that
have been eaten off. This knocks condition off
all the sheep, and also finds out the weak
ones, which have to be left behind, as the
drover has to travel his statutory distance
every day.
I have met many graziers who acknow-
ledged that the dearest grass they can buy
is on the stock route, but never one who
thought it was cheap agistment.
TETANUS AND BLOOD POISONING.
“Bodangora” : Tetanus and blood poisoning
lurk in the woolshed and sheepyard, and
thousands of sheep and lambs are lost annu-
ally through want of cleanliness in those
places. Immediately the shearing is com-
pleted the shearing floors, catching and turn-
out pens should be washed out with boiling
water. Next morning they should be sprayed
with a strong solution of sheep-dip, carbolic
acid or Fowler’s solution. All manure should
be taken away and burnt. The washing and
spraying should be repeated a week before
the next shearing.
Manure is often found in the sheepyards
to the depth of six inches. This provides an
ideal breeding-place for tetanus. Ewes and
lambs are brought into the yards for drafting
and to tail the lambs. They are left nearly
always for the night in the yards, and many
of the lambs become infected through the
navel string. Often the operation of tailing
is blamed for the death of the lamb when the
real cause is the filthy yard. Clean up the
sheepyard at least twice a year, leaving
not a vestige of manure or decaying tails,
which should all be burnt. After each clean-
ing up, spray the yards well with some
strong carbolic solution and stamp out the
animal disease that always lurks in the
dirty yard.
GRIPES.
‘"Tumbe Munda” : For gripes the best thing
is prevention. However—
Symptoms: The horse does not eat and
wants to lie down, occasionally throwing his
head around towards his flank. As the pain
gets worse he groans.
Relief: Take one pint fresh milk, one
dessertspoon ground ginger, two table-
spoons carbonate of soda. Mix. If you
haven’t a drenching bit get a long-neckec!
bottle. Put winkers on the horse. Tie a rope
to the noseband. Throw one end of the rope
over a rafter in the stable roof, and get your
wife to pull on the rope, drawing the horse’s
head into a horizontal position. Then by
standing on a box you can administer the
drench per medium of the bottle. At the
same time rub th/e bars of the horse’s
mouth with the ball of your thumb; this
causes him to swallow. Rest the horse half
a day.
Prevention: Water before feeding only.
If the horse is subject to gripes, occasion-
ally put a handful of crushed charcoal in his
feed; this will absorb gases if fermenta-
tion commences. Use a few packets of
Epsom salts if the horse is in continuous
stabling, so that the stomach will keep the
food passing along.
FOX DESTRUCTION.
“Ebor”: The fox is very fond of the oil
in which sardines are preserved. The oil
from two tins of sardines poured into a jam-
tin, with as much strychnine as will lie ,on
the point of a pocket-knife blade, will kill
any fox. This bait is best placed on the side
of a track near water.
Or make a hole in the ground, pour in some
melted fat, the more rancid the better, and
place a rabbit’s liver loaded with strychnine
on a chip over the hole. It is advisable to
roast the baits. Set them in gullies, etc.,
where the fox travels to water and hunts.
The fox usually eats the liver and scratches
after the fat till the poison takes affect.
Foxes can be caught if traps are set in
holes in netting fences and on tracks
provided that all around the traps is wiped
with an unskinned rabbit. Rabbit traps are
suitable if they are fitted with two pegs on
a forked chain. The reason for the two
pegs is this. A fox when caught jumps
straight up, and in doing so draws a single
peg first go. The two pegs must be driven
into the ground in opposite directions.
Or roast a rabbit and drag it along a track,
then bury it, set a trap on top of the rabbit
and lightly cover the whole lot with
earth. Rubber gloves scented with aniseed
oil should be worn; otherwise the fox will
smell the human being, and leave the spot
where he is most desired.
When going after a fox in a burrow, watch
for a chance when he is at home; then set
the traps as far down the burrow as you
can reach. Fill the openings of the burrows,
with clods, taking care that the traps are not
sprung in the process.
MAMMITIS.
“C.11.P.”: Enormous losses are caused by
mammitis, and they are largely avoidable:
but the trouble must be attacked promptly.
Symptoms: Swelling, heat and tenderness
of the quarters; thin, blue or stringy milk,
(Continued on page 32.)


Fitst low priced
tmck to Have all
/■
m
w >
& $
Seven bearing
ci'anHshaft
Steel xibeels
Pun Poi'ced
Peed Lubrication
Heaviest Chassis
ITT was not thought possible to incorporate
so many high-grade features in a low-
priced unit. Now the New Whippet Six
30-cwt. Truck brings to every buyer low
price with high quality. Examine closely
these important features: —
THE SIX CYLINDER MOTOR WITH SEVEN
BEARING CRANKSHAFT: The only low-priced
six-cylinder motored Truck so equipped abso-
lutely necessary under modern Truck usage to
obtain maximum service.
FULL FORCE-FEED LUBRICATION: This gives
the Whippet Six Truck an exclusive advantage.
Owners are assured of their WTippet Six Truck
engine receiving correct lubrication at all points,
at all times. This is vitally important, as Truck
engines are subject to heavy daily strains, par-
ticularly in hilly districts.
FOUR SPEED GEAR BOX: An extra gear that
reduces the strain on the engine, gives speedier
hill-climbing and greater petrol economy.
FOUR WHEEL BRAKES need no recommenda-
tion in view of present day traffic conditions.
ARTILLERY STEEL (6-SPOKE) WHEELS:
Offer strength and durability not otherwise ob-
tainable.
WHEELBASE 131 inches provides minimum
overhang.
HEAVIEST AND STRONGEST CHASSIS: The
Whippet Six Chassis has from 150 to 300 lbs.
more steel than that of any competing Truck, and
every additional pound of steel means so much
extra strength.
t'-.i
’.Jy'l
?* :
rrt*'*;i-‘
£
'las
S»
W?S ap&
■£&v' irW-W^
»!
I'Tt?
("tv
'• >S .
f; ;V^
&£•
HiM/fiii/mm
aafes
u mm
4
r &:
v iSSLv
?«&
w
»,w
ssr
s
* fPATON) \,
W.
C\
CHASSIS
*ith ,
SUPERIOR
WHIPPET 6
T 30 cwt. truck:
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LTD.,
148-150 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S-W.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
62-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide, S.A.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
53-63 Bathurst Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
OVERLAND VICTORIA PTY., LTD.,
117-121 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, Vic.
ADAMS MOTORS, LTD.,
442 Murray Street, Perth, W.A.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LTD.,
Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane, Q.


BUILT TO BUICK- CTAI
MALQUETTL BLING 1 ) NLW;
'T'HE new Marquette—built
by Buick— extends to a
host of new owners those
qualities of style and sterling
performance which Buick’s
26 years of experience has
taught Buick craftsmen how
to build.
Thus, those who hitherto had
to be content in a lower-than-
Buick price range, with cars
of lesser quality and perfor-
mance, can now enjoy owner-
ship of Marquette ... a car
with Buick qualities inbuilt.
Not only in quality is the
Marquette akin to Buick, for
to ride in the Marquette is to
know that Buick engineer-
ing genius and Buick build-
ing excellence have produced
a new car whose merit is far
beyond the standards set by
cars of comparable price.
Its sterling performance \
thrill you. There is unus
merit in the easy swiftr
of its getaway ... a 91
mastery in its acceleration
steep grades ... a smoi
compliance with your
most demand for speed ..
new sense of security in
action of its internal fo
wheel brakes ... a no
delight in its positive 1
feather-light steering.
There is unique assurance
efficient service-after-sale
the hands of experienc
Buick dealers.
Go now to your near
dealer for a Marquette c
monstration. Then, too, y
will learn of Marquett
beauty ... its
and luxury . . . its reqar
able performance.
§f!i!
ill


F-
M MEANING TO
E-XC&-LLE-NCE-
PFPTOHMANCF
ce will
musual
/iftness
quiet
ion on
mooth
Lir ut-
i ... a
in the
four-
novel
e and
nee of
ale at
ienced
te de-
'O, you
[uette’s
r Htyle
PRICES from £365
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR
Convenient Payments can be arranged
on the liberal G.M.A.C. Terms Plan
Sold and Serviced by Buick Dealers everywhere
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER
Metropolitan Distributors:
Brisbane: Metropolitan Motors Ltd.
Melbourne: Preston Motors Pty. Ltd.
Sydney: Boyd Edkins Ltd.
Perth: Master Motors Ltd.
GENERAL MOTORS (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
Brisbane - Sydney - Melbourne - Adelaide - Perth
K%. .k*
pilil
ifyity f§|§g llgyii|§§i irnmmmm gp|||t|
I
i B 1 ■ ■ n
m
SsStel ,;?■ ■ >■*>■• >
.
m Ml ■■
1 ' ' * mil. - “» s * si '
Hi
sn hi m - <j, 'afe'-1 imh
# $ i ill - 1 ■
y 11 .r'ii''' ! i' 1 i
s 1 ft |B| H|
I. ■-:■■ '
BIMP Bi HNHBMfII m mm
, if my' - #t* m
> \ s»'«f; mg X WM%., msMe , $ $ ■ -x : ■< W,z - ......& m
x< ; % 'll'J |j|fl| 8& - fs'li i m - <v< ?jr .Vm; 'WiwmmM
■ i. I -
l■| , i■ I immlp : S 1—
1 Il'^ 4 " B 1 i 888
bBHMMbBBB HH ■■■■
?
111
■ll Mali ■
: : : ' : ■ : B S :
■£&
r : -
mi
■
HH
IB
1
iSSi
ij
Is
vm
■
■HI
v
■
I
mm
am
amm
■■
m
■
l
n
.
■
-.
y
■
IB
I : :
■II
:•• :■ •
-r 1
I
■
M
m
m
.
HR
»
■
m&'mm
*--•... j
/7
G
Ma rauette
B U I LT
b y
B U I C K.
mm
p—i
-
L_.
nr ■ ■
iS


«1
■Bl
a
A stronger sole
Right from toe to heel the stout
sole of this sturdy Abbey Shoe
runs in undiminished thickness——
instead of being made thinner
from the instep back. Natu-
rally, this greatly increases its
wearing qualities. The sole, too,
is broadly welted.
Made of the best calf, low-cut
at sides, curved to lie easily over
the instep arch, this Abbey Shoe
as well offers completest comfort.
POSTAL ORDERS: Narrow,
medium and wide fittings are
available in all full and half sizes.
Specify width, and order, also,
a supply of Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin).
Dark Tan Calf . . 50/-
Enlarged catalogue of men’s and women’s
footwear post free.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS.” SYDNEY.
FPLI46.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
H
BRVTtSH
ADE
Perfection
PINK RUBBER.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id-
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of. various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins ... 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
POST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Every Day Rub On
ZAM'BUK
To /mprove Your S/tin
At this season the skin tends to become
out-of-condition! Winter impurities
which have accumulated in the tissues
are beginning to force their way out in
the form of itchy rash and Spring pim-
ples. Winds also chafe and roughen the
skin, making it sore; washing soaps also
now rob the skin of its softening oils.
To keep your skin clear, healthy and
flexible, rub it over every day with a
little Zam-Buk. This famous herbal
ointment contains refined extracts which
the pores readily absorb. Zam-Buk
soothes, purifies, and protects your skin,
it helps to keep it clear and sound.
Zam-Buk Is also excellent for cuts, burns,
eczema, bad legs, piles, poisoned wounds, bolls,
abscesses, and skin troubles of all kinds. Keen
a 1/6 or 3/6 box of Z m-Buk always handy. The
best soap for sensitive skins is Zam-Buk Med-
icinal Soap 1/- a tablet Ail chemists.
GET A BOX TO DAY
THE PATRIOT
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
p
H if
SSI
Taylor’s Portable
Crow Trap
An Efficient Watchdog Over
Your Lambs and Flocks.
lifetime;
jgEING all metal, lasts
folds up completely. Weighs
1401 b. Size, 6ft. x 6ft. x 6ft. It can
be erected and dismantled in a few
minutes by one man.
The trap consists of four sides and
top. The frame is constructed of
piping, with all joints electrically
welded. The sides and top are
covered with special gauge wire-
netting. There is a small opening
on top of cage for the crows, and a
door in one side to allow the bait to be placed.
Instructions for erecting are sent with each trap.
Price (f.o.r. Melbourne), each
£6/17/6
Manufactured by
D. & W. CHANDLER, LTD
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY, VICTORIA.
sometimes with a foul odor; ruffled coat,
tameness m hindquarters; glaring eyes, and
sigms generally of sickness.
T , Undoubtedly the best thing is prevention.
Keep the udder clean, keep up the cow’s resist-
ance as much as possible. Have everything
clean about the bails—including utensils,
hands and clothes of the milkers. Wash the
udder with clean water before milking; dis-
card the water as soon as it becomes dirty;
wash the rag out after milking with hot,
soapy water, and hang it up in the sun.
It, m spite of this, a cow becomes infected,
commence treatment as soon as the symp-
toms are noticed. Isolate and keep so until
she has recovered. Give her a good drench.
Then milk her every two hours as long as
clots are seen in the milk; it is the best
way to clean the cow up quickly. Massage
the udder with a little oil of peppermint
poured into the hollow of the hand. Keep
a couple of shillings’ worth of this oil; if
corked it will retain its strength for years.
But it must be used in the early stages.
Even if you only fancy the cow has mam-
mitis, treat her at once. Don’t take any
risks where mammitis is concerned.
Wash the teats (not the udder, or you will
wash the oil off) with an antiseptic solu-
tion. (Dissolve one tablespoon sodium hypo-
chlorite in a kerosene-tin of water.) Let
the milker wash his hands and the cow’s
teats in this after each milking. When there
is trouble about, do every cow whether
affected with mammitis or not. The job does
not take long, and it not only sends the cow
out perfectly clean, but disinfects the hands
of the milker and prevents him carrying
trouble to the next cow. This chemical is
so cheap and the amount needed is so small
that it is within the reach of the poorest
dairyman.
Always use a special tin and rag for wash-
ing affected cows. Wash the rag out in
the tin afterwards, and hang it up apart
from the other rags. When the cow is bet-
ter, burn the rag. Always bury any milk
that has clots in it.
POLLED CATTLE.
“Curlew” : That lack of horns makes for
contentment in cattle and thriftiness no one
will dispute, nor the fact that fat cattle
trucked to market would come through in
better order if all were polled. Milk yields
suffer because of some cows having a useful
pair of horns apiece with which they can
stir up the rest of the herd. I saw an instance
a fortnight ago where the herd set on a quiet
little cow. She was badly ruptured and
had to be destroyed. Then it was found that
she was terribly bruised on various parts of
the body.
Thirty years ago I read that by lightly
wetting the budding horn of a calf and rub-
bing on a little concentrated lye (with a
stick), the growth of the horns would be
prevented. I tried it and had beautiful polled
dairy cattle. And I have gone on doing it.
But don’t apply much water. Where the
dissolved soda gets on the skin it causes
burning. Applied carefully, only the budding
horn is affected.
CURRENT WORK WITH CITRUS
TREES.
“X.5A.” ; Citrus trees require more atten-
tion at this time than any other season in
the year. They must be brought up to and
kept in good heart during blossoming and
setting of the fruit. The quality of the crop
to be harvested in autumn and winter
depends entirely on spring and early summer
cultural methods.
The first essential is that the ground should
be thoroughly clean and in good tilth. After
that care must be taken to conserve mois-
ture. Deep and systematic workings during
late winter or very early spring should have
ensured this; but in any case every step
should be taken to aid capillary action and
prevent evaporation.
If observant, the citrus orchardist will
sometimes notice that profuse and strong
blooming may result in a light setting. This
is almost invariably due to lack of sufficient
moisture, and should further teach the neces-
sity for conservation at the time when
evaporation is at lowest —winter.
The young fruit must be kept growing.
The skin during dry spells has a tendency
to harden, and seldom will the fruit fill out
to decent sizes if unduly checked in growth.
When in this condition it is certain to split
in large quantities when heavy rain occurs.
Much of the crop will be lost in this manner.
The tree now has its hardest period ahead
and therefore requires assistance. Keep
the harrows and hoes busy and do not allow
any rubbish to take away moisture or food.
Unless there is ample room in the rows do
not work side crops between the trees. Keep
the whole surface of the orchard worked.
Dry, hard patches draw the moisture from
the cultivated areas, and this applies to short-
cut roads and paths across the bed, which
should, at this period, be done away with.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Is it necessary in N.S.W. to brand sheep
with a “T,” driving them 10 miles along a
road to the trucking-yards? —2663.
An owner may be exempted by the Dis-
trict Stock Inspector from the use of the
“T” brand when sheep are being consigned
to a market only, and are being trucked at
a railway station or siding within; two days’
travelling of the run on which they are
ordinarily depastured.
(1) Quantity and value of soya beans
imported to Australia, and duty on such?
(2) Why is cultivation of this crop not
general in Australia? —23ls.
(1) Imports of soya beans are not re-
corded separately, but are included under
the heading “Beans and Peas.” The import
duties on soya beans are: Not prepared or
manufactured —British pref. tariff, Is. 6d.
per cental; general tariff. Is. 6d. per cental.
Dow Shee (soya beans in a damp state in
jars—British pref. tariff, Id. per lb.;
general tariff, |d. per lb. (2) The cultiva-
tion of soya beans is practically confined to
the purpose of green feed or soil improve-
ment, no demand on a commercial scale
having occurred.
My calves have a considerable discharge
from the nose and eyes. They then become
dopey, refusing their drink and getting very
wanted in condition. Finally, their breathing
is stertorous and they appear to be struggling
for breath for some time before collapsing.
What is the disease, and the best treatment?
—2577.
Symptoms point to infectious pneumonia,
which spreads rapidly from calf to calf.
As soon as the disease appears the affected
animals should be thoroughly isolated and
special feeding buckets should be used for
them. House and yards should be thoroughly
disinfected with limewash and carbolic acid,
allowing l|lb. of lime, 4oz. of carbolic acid
to the gallon of water. Medicinal treatment
is very unsatisfactory. Even should tlu-
calves recover they become very stunted
and unthrifty.
What grass or clover could suitably be
sown on land which was trenched years ago
for grapes, stiff yellow clay being placed on
top? The district (near Liverpool, N.S.W.)
is sometimes very dry, and the land now
grows spear grass 0n1y? —2665.
The following mixture, sown in autumn,
is recommended : Cocksfoot, 41b.; Wimmera
rye grass, 21b.; tall fescue, 31b.; prairie,
41b.; white clover, lib.; subterranean clover,
lib. per acre.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Hayband”: If you have a “drifty” sec-
tion, at fallowing time drill in a bushel of
early oats and about 401 b. super. When well
established, turn sheep in from time to time
till growth ceases. The roots, remaining in
the ground during summer, have a compact-
ing effect; the sheep’s hoofs at that time of
year also assist. The young stuff won't do
your sheep any harm, either.
“E.H’.M.”: In districts where the rainfall
is exceptionally heavy or the land liable to
flood, it is a mistake to cultivate the ground
to “ashes” for tomato-growing. Plough the
ground and hill up the lumps (the more
lumps the better), and plant the young’uns
on the hills. The rains will disintegrate the
lumpy soil about the roots of the plants.
“Todgie”: Re stripping the cow, as advo-
cated by “Hayband” (B. 18/9/’29). The
good milker is the one who milks the cow
right out quickly, and very little stripping is
required. If you strip and strip and strip,
the cow soon grows wise to it, and holds
back a little milk for the purpose. It’s no
,fun to be tugged at when there’s -nothing
there.
“Borer”: When the farmer notices the
sow jibbing on the suckling part of her
responsibilities, better make an examination
of the mouths of the little pigs, and it may
come to light that some of them have quite
long, sharp tusks. Naturally these tusks
set up an irritation which puts’ the sow off
her job, and often causes an injurious change
in the milk. The tusks should be nipped
off with a pair of small pincers.
“Burren”: “Minthall” (B. 25/9/’29) need
not sow nearly so much Sudan grass seed
as he suggests ; 61b. to one acre is quite enough.
Few farmers have a drill now, but the com-
bine will serve by inserting wire into the
outlets so as to prevent the seed from pass-
ing through too quickly. A little care will
easily regulate the supply. To get a thick
stool, put sheep on the young growth as
soon as the roothold is sufficiently strong.
Young sheep do very well on it.
“Specker” : Dr. Frazer (U.S.A.) conducted
a series of tests which showed that all
samples of milk kept in the dark at tem-
peratures near freezing-point were perfectly
fresh at seven days, whereas duplicate
samples at the same temperature but exposed
to light developed the characteristic “card-
board” taste and linseed-oil odor after 20
to 48 hours. A few hours of exposure to
diffused light apparently starts a process
which continues in the dark and is acceler-
ated by more daylight.
“Cod”: In severe diarrhoea in cows, flour
gruel should be given. Put a pint of flour
in a gallon cooking pan, add a little cold
water and mix thoroughly; add two table-
spoons of warm water starch, fill the pan
three parts full with milk and water in
equal parts and boil 10 minutes. Some of
the pasty mixture should be given thrice
daily, dissolved with water or boiled milk.
If the gruel is refused a few quarts should
be forcibly given twice or thrice daily.
“Bushman”: Now’s the time to get into
the thistle crop if you want to stop the
spread. Don’t let them flower. They die
quickly when hoed or cut now, and are not
half the trouble to get out whilst young
that they are when old and hard and matted
with tall grass. Small patches want the
hoe, and big areas can be cut with the mow-
ing machine. As soon as they are dry put
a match into the lot. Keep on worrying
them whenever they appear, and don’t hesi-
tate to keep the neighbors up to the job too.
“Hop Scrub” : There is an opening for a
tractor for the market-garden and small orch-
ard. Besides being light in weight it should
have a high clearance, so that it can straddle
the rows of vegetables. It should be narrow,
as its primary purpose is to assist with
seeding and to eliminate work with the hand
or wheel hoe. It would not pull a plough
to any great depth; but ploughing is at most
a twice-a-year job, while seeding and general
cultivation run the year through.
“Hawera”: South Taranaki (M.L.) dairy-
farmers are perturbed at the number of mal-
formed calves lately born. One vet. states
that of 58 cows’ which came under his care
26 bore “freak” calves that did not
survive. In a long experience, the expert
had come across only three previous cases.
He lays the blame on the severe earthquake
which shook up the district in June last.
The malformations were not confined to any
particular breed, and pedigree cows are as
subject to misfortune as the common or
garden variety.
“Glenfield” : The mention of soil analysis
brings a grin to the faces of old settlers in
our district. In the early days, when we
were on the edge of the Never Never, a
request was made to the Government to
throw this virgin country open. At length
the Government asked one of the settlers
to forward for analysis a sugar-bag of soil
from this Never Never. Being a busy man,
and knowing the new country to be the same
as his own, he filled the bag with soil from
a paddock of his own on which a 12-bushel
crop was growing. Presumably an analysis
was made; anyhow, the report came back
that the country was unsuitable for wheat-
growing. To-day it is all selected and recog-
nised as a good district.


BY APPOINTMENT
QMfor
®<S>FdlG>l»*§
OHM
The ingredients used in the production of
GORDON’S GIN are of the finest quality
procurable, and contain the greatest per-
centage of those important properties which
are considered by the Medical profession to
be most beneficial to the human system. It
is very highly rectified and contains no im-
purities of any kind, it is therefore very
easily digested and also aids the digestion of
other beverages with which it is mixed.
The name “ GORDON ” guarantees the very
highest standard of quality and absolute
purity; a reputation enjoyed and jealously
guarded for over 150 years.
The Largest Gin Distillers in the World
WHITEST
PUREST
& BEST
The Heart
of a good
Cocktail
Gordons
drygin
Ka«aZ!3ffil2^EH3EsaZ^
Lr\
3
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
m
4
At the
Children’s Table
UN for the Children is
Mabel Lucie Attwell’s
gift to the Shelley tableware.
Herea milk-jug that pretends
to be an elf, there a sugar-
basin that might be one of
Peter Pan’s mushrooms—a
laugh in every plate and the
cunningest skill in fashion-
ing ware that little spoons
and forks may pick their
food up easily.
Ask ro see the
SHELLEY
atest
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morninc Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
t>y Lucie Attweu
tr Hilda Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
obtaining
iKOStS&EMM,
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
FOR YOUR NEXT PARTY, PICNIC,
OR SUPPER INTRODUCE
CRAB
CAPTAIN
WELCOME
SMiiSPS
SEE
THE
AND
RECEIVES
HE
row ruwT**» iww-mcuuahs as* youw gno err
. row urctre-rdo*
Experimenting
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary Experiments?
Cut Waste and
Advertise with a
“Result-Bringer”
tin telegraph
BRISBANE
Has proved itself for
over 57 years a good
“Result-Bringer” for
all Advertisers.
Che telegraph
newspaper Co. Ctd.
Queen & Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane.


7hp cen/ne of Queens/onc/s
c/zs/inguishec/ Soc/o/ Li/e.
nutans
WM
tSiIDISR
BRISBANE
iviagnihcent Kali"
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disnosal ol
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
“The Australia” is not a hotel hut the
hotel. Its Quests have the very real
satisfaction of bein& in the heart
of social and commercial ac-
tivities. And, further, they
&ain first-hand acquaint-
ance with our ideals of
punctilious service
Illustrated Booklet
on request.
¥29:
“|™ E AUSTRALIA
m
T-Tt
¥
Tyfzm
Telegraphic, '
Wireless and Cable
Address:
“ Austraotel, Sydney"
X
X-
s
ric
\XV
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH, SYDNEY
TKe^j
Australia i
ROOM 300
PLEASE
Ojm
“s*l
The comfort and success of your
visit to Adelaide, whether for a
week or a year, is assured when
you stay here. Yale locks on all
doors, fireproof, hot and cold
water in every room. Bed and
Breakfast, from 6/6.
c .Adelaides Finest Unlicensed Field
Opp. Railway Stn North Terrace. ADELAIDE
SMOKE-OH!
The politicians got one another on the
roar several times last week.
* *
“The basher-gang leader was knocked down and
stunned.”
Yet few associate a basher with the assault
of the earth.
* #
Melbourne women have gone mad about
the beret cap. The men, of course, can’t
beret.
* *
As a plumber, the veteran member, J. E.
West started with a big advantage in the
East Sydney electorate. It is notoriously
hard to get plumbers out of the house.
IN FACT, ALMOST IMMORAL.
“Isn’t it terrible? There are so many divorce cases listed that
some of them can’t be heard for months and months.”
“Simply scandalous! It’s quite enough to put one off getting
married at all.”
Dear Bulletin, —I noticed the following
in the S. M. Herald :—-
Bondi Resident Duped.
At Bondi during the week a smartly-dressed
woman, believed to be of gypsy descent, entered a
sweet shop and offered to tell the fortune of the
young lady at the counter. “If you give me £4
I’ll banish all your cares,” the visitor promised.
The police are investigating the matter.
I also live in Bondi, and, like the young lady
in the sweet shop, have been pestered lately
by adventurers who professed to be able to
banish all my cares. The consideration de-
manded was not a paltry £4 but £lOOO a
year and valuable perquisites. Why do not
the police, instead of harassing petty im-
postors, lay some of our Napoleons of crime
by the heels? —Yours indignantly,
Pro Bono Publico.
Ba! Ba! black sheep, have you any wool?
Bah! Bah! cut it out, Dig., and take a pull!
What ivith synthetic substitutes, as mighty
well you know,
And competition from the Cape, the price is
so darned low
The staple hardly pays a self-respecting sheep
to grow.
BRIEF ROMANCE.
Jack and Jill went up Church Hilt,
Hands clasped and faces sunny .
And now, in town. Jack’s settling down
To earn Jill's alimony.
HOW BLACK BROTHER DOES IT.
“Mr. Archdale Parkhill has referred to me as a
decrepit old man, who is incapable of giving
adequate service in Parliament. I challenge him to
meet me at Manly at rowing, hop-step-
and-jump, or leap frog.”— lt. Windeyer, K.C.
The inspiration of the challenge is, of
course, the method of deciding elections
which has been in
vogue amongst the
Woola - Woola tribe
(Central Australia)
for centuries. A sports
meeting (usually held
on the shores of Lake
Disappointment) i s
substituted for our
ridiculous system of
polling. The two great
sprint events — Plat-
form Lying (which
takes the form of
slanders against ad-
versaries, promises of
reforms by legislation,
etc.) and All Styles
Bragging (deafening
references to war ser-
vices, roaring claims
to such titles as
“Little Digger,” and
the like) —figure at
the head of the pro-
gramme. The long-
distance item, known
as Underground En-
gineering, follows. It
often lasts from one
election to the next.
The Tug of War, in
which a merciless
strain is put on the
tribe’s collective leg,
is another contest
which calls for tre-
mendous endurance on
both sides. Horrible
stories are told
amongst the tribes-
men about Getting
the Party Nomination, but it is impossible
to verify them. Press and public are excluded
from this event, and it is run in the dark.
Finally, we have the most popular item of
all, Mudslinging. The lake, round which
the patriots gather to save the country, is
sometimes dry, but no one worries about
that. Imbued as all are by a white-hot
passion for justice and truth, they are pre-
pared to throw anything. An elevating and
inspiring function concludes with a ceremony
of great antiquity and significance. It is
called Serving tiie Libel and Slander
Wiuts. D j
* %•
A woman would rather dye than look her
age.
“Plaintiff admitted having taken exception to his
manner of speech... . On that occasion she took
exception to his language, used in her hearing. She
took exception to his calling upon her in a drunken
condition”- —Breach report.
Evidently an exceptional young woman.
ABERDONIAN’S LAMENT.
I worship Jean in ev’ry way—
Her looks, her temper sunny.
She, likewise, worships me, they say,
And yet I dare not name the day,'
Her old man has no money.
* *
“A speech by W. M. Hughes has been made into
a gramophone record.”
It has caused more than one Hughesite
to get the needle.
HAVE A HEART.
SALESMAN : “Now, here’s something really smart.”
SHY YOUNG MAN FROM BOORT: “No, dammit, no. I may wear
my heart on my sleeve, but I’m hanged if I’ll carry it on
my ankles.”
The sailor threw her a kiss as the vessel swung
clear from the wharf.”
Tossed his good-bye.
* *
Flaming Hughes!
* *
WHAT HE SAID.
Ladies and Gentlemen, —I wish to dedicate
my life to my country’s service;. I will not
flinch from the task which confronts us. Pos-
sessed by the purest spirit of patriotic self-
s.acrifice, I yearn but for one thing—the
privilege, however laborious, of helping to
the nation’s destinies. Give me your votes
and I swear before high Heaven that no
stone shall be left unturned in the effort
to right the wrongs of our suffering native
land. ( Loud and prolonged cheers.)
WHAT HE MEANT.
For God’s sake put me in! From earliest
childhood I have hated anything in the shape
of work. Hate it so that I frequently sweat
at the thought that I may have to tackle it.
Vote for me; place me beyond the reach
of this ghastly menace and you can then go
to blazes!
Me.
DREAM AND NIGHTMARE.
’Twas a dream of a hat, without a douht.
She did her best to entice
Her hubby to buy it, but he found out
That it was a nightmare price.
“The Antarctic mountains are solitary places.”
Yet the ice of the world is on them.
“A woman is usually half an hour late,”
said the Judge in a Sydney court. He was
speaking, evidently, from the wait of his
experience.
* *
“In spite of all his efforts he could induce nothing
but wads to grow in his garden.”— Sydney News.
Would that our garden grew them, too !
UNUSUAL EVENT OF THE MONTH.
Arriving home at 5.30, 10 minutes after
leaving work, Henry Brown, hon. sec. of
the Bottle Park Basher Gang, handed his
pay-envelope to his wife, remarking that if
she gave him back a few shillings for papers
and tram fares it would see him through
the week. “What use has a respectable
married man for filthy lucre?” he demanded.
Mrs. Brown refused the pay-envelope,
pointing out that the bills were all settled
and she had a considerable surplus in hand
from the previous week.
Husband and wife were now in something
of a dilemma.
Eventually they compromised by with-
drawing 2s. 9d. from the envelope for the
breadwinner, after which they stood each
other a couple of straight milks at the corner
shop and handed over the balance to St.
Gloom’s Mission for Dipsomaniacal Girl
Guides.
* *
When a woman appears in a fur coat she
has probably skinned her bear of a husband.
“Henceforward one cigarette in every
dozen will be deducted from each packet.
This will make us fagged out all the sooner.
* *
HOW IT REALLY HAPPENED.
When Noah issued the prospectus of his
first shipping company the Mt. Ararat Sun
sarcastically referred to it as “Noah’s Ark
—a striking title which the shrewd old finan-
cier immediately appropriated.
It was a period of investment mania.
Eventually, of course, the boom burst, ana
for 40 days and 40 nights it rained financial
disaster. At the very moment when tne
whole world was submerged in a flood of ruin
Noah’s Ark, Ltd., was- successfully floated.
That there was a measure of truth in the
Sen’s strictures, however, is shown by the
fact that nobody benefited from the float
but Noah (governing director), his sons,
who were large shareholders, and their de-
pendants.
The company’s
operations were
short-lived, and
with practically
the entire world in
liquidation this
was not surpris-
ing. Noah sent
out three kite-
flying prospectuses,
obtaining a slight
return in the first
two, but none
whatever in the
third, and Noah’s
Ark, Ltd., was ulti-
mately listed as
stranded on the
Mt. Ararat Stock
Exchange.
Noah did not
come out of the
venture badly,
however, and his
next, Vineyards,
Ltd., was so suc-
cessful that the
directors stood him
a banquet at the shareholders’ expense.
There was a lamentable scene at this
function. Noah got drunk, and his loutish
son Ham, forgetting that there were report-
ers present, made ribald jokes about his
parent’s moral nakedness. Coming to his
senses Noah cursed Ham until the latter
went black in the face.
Mrs. Ham was an expectant mother at
the time, and she explained afterwards that
seeing her husband in that condition had a
curious physiological effect. Her child when
born, proved to be also black. The theories
of a certain school of anthropologists dating
the origin of the colored races from this
incident do not seem to have been general
HE CALLED AT THE WRONG HOUSE.
“Yes, lady. Six months ago I had a home
of my own; but I was in hot water with
me wife all the time.”
“Humph! It’s a pity she didn’t use a bit
of soap with it!”
in Noah’s time. There may be significance
in a recently-discovered record which sug-
gests that Mrs. Ham obtained 10,000 talents
damages from the Dead Sea Weekly for
mentioning that a black liontamer was em-
ployed by Noah’s Ark, Ltd. Be this so or
not, the sensational Ham v. Ham (Sambo
co-re.) divorce case, which came on shortly
afterwards, undoubtedly ended in the
triumph of the petitioner and the flight of
the respondent and co-re. to Central Africa.
Hamer.
[For matter requiring a signature, J. B. Dailey,
214 George-street, Sydney, shares the blame with
J. E. Webb, same address.]
COMFORTING MAMMY.
(Air: “The Drivelling Idiot Blues.”)
He could dance and sing a sweet jazz song;
He’d sung a-many, and he’d sung ’em long;
Songs about roses,
Songs about noses;
Songs of relations,
An’ roarin’ railway stations.
And now he was returning to the dear old
home
Never more to leave it, never more to roam,
lie stood and gazed
Till he felt quite dazed;
Gazed at the bell-pull on the old front door,
Gave it a haul, an’ gazed some more.
Then he heard cries,
Tears filled his eyes.
He could hear his mammy weepin ’ for the
boy she’d lost.
He felt he had to comfort her whate’er the
cost;
So he bust right in
With a cheery grin,
Caught his mammy in his lovin’ arms,
Soothed the poor old soul’s alarms
With the cry
Of “Mammy! I
Can make up to you now for all your sorrer
and your pain.
T ’ve got the sack and never mean to go to
work again.”
LANNOT.
THE CANDIDATE WE DIDN’T HEAR.
Mr. Chairman and Ladies and Gentlemen,
—As an aspirant for Parliamentary honors
in this electorate I think it only fair to
mention that any promises which I may
make will be dishonored unless it suits me
to keep them. I have but one object in
standing for election —monetary gain.
Should you be so misguided as to return
me to Parliament, I will immediately start
attacking my leader, my object being to
get the extra payment which accompanies
a Ministerial job. The manoeuvre does not
always succeed, unfortunately, and may fail
in my case, my intelligence being of a low
order. If so, I shall vote with the other
side to put my party out of office, and have
a stab at blackmailing my way into the
Cabinet of my new leader. Meanwhile,
ladies and gentlemen, you can rely on me
to use my prestige as an M.P. to promote
dud companies, secure directorships and
otherwise improve my finances, which, I tell
you candidly, are in a critical state. As
regards my personal character, I am an
undischarged bankrupt, have spent a con-
siderable time in prison for wife-desertion
and non-compliance with maintenance orders,
and am now living with a lady who is not
my wife. I thank you.
CEDILLA.


Chrysler in Quality
yet Low in Price
PLYMOUTH
#
5
f
f
t i
u
m
%
\
i
?
a
* SA
N
LI
u
IN Plymouth, as in all Chrysler
Motors cars, full consideration
has been given to all those things
that motorists of today cherish
in the motor cars they own.
From the standpoints of corr
fort, of style, of easy handling
and of genuine capability for
any motoring task, this full-
size Plymouth offers advan-
tages that usually are found
only in cars of higher price.
Plymouth 4-Door Sedan
Feature after feature, pioneered
and perfected originally for the
higher-priced Chrysler creations,
is embodied in the Plymouth
giving it the character -and the
distinctiveness of costlier cars. It
has refinement. It has poise.
There is a certain charm about
it that makes you proud to own
and drive it. With all its other
advantages, it is remarkably eco-
nomical to operate and maintain.
CHRYSLER
MOTORS PRODUCT
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales . . Larke, Neave & Carter Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Collins Motors Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Ward Motors Limited, Brisbane
West Australia Wm. Attwood Motors Ltd., Perth
South Australia .... O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania Metro Motors Pty. Ltd., Hobart
New Zealand Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea ....... W. R. Carpenter & Co. Ltd., Rabaul


§
//
Wj
A
i
/i
m
oiiiuil
1
s
SOI
I*l
-77**.
Along the straight
undeviating line of
development comes
this new leader in
performance and
value.
(l V 2 Tons.)
__ w
milM*
Overshadowing even present-day Republic stan-
dards for highest attainment in engineering
design, and heralding a new era in the trim,
vigorous beauty of its appearance, the Republic Fleet-
master fully meets the requirements of a wide and varying
class of truck users. A leader in performance and value,
the Fleetmaster is built to haul tonnage throughout truck
life at the lowest cost per ton mile.
Perfectly balanced throughout, super-powered with a
smooth, husky, six-cylinder engine, and with generous
over-strength built into every unit, the Fleetmaster is a
distinct engineering triumph, from the high, beautifully-
designed radiator to the sturdy rear axle.
The whole array of engineering advancements which are
to be found in the Republic Fleetmaster are the result of
La France-Republic’s many years of truck-building
experience.
Unit by unit, everything about the Fleetmaster adds right
up in the profit column.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Larke, Haskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets,
Agency,
Brisbane,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Way mouth Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets,
Wellington.
Factory Representatives: W. A. CROWLE LTD., Crowle House, York Street, Sydney.


■mm
11
m
mm
*
Cruising to
JAVA and
SUMATRA
First-class round fare to Belawan
Deli (Sumatra), calling at Java ports,
Singapore and Penang: From Brisbane
and Sydney, £99; from Melbourne,
£lO5.
The K.P.M. invites you to wonder and wander in Java and
Sumatra, islands of exotic attractions.
Glorious days at sea, the comforts and conveniences of the
great Liners Nieuw Holland and Nieuw Zeeland will be a
delightful holiday for you.
The steamer is your hotel for the round voyage of seven weeks.
Full particulars from
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY
(K.P.M. Line),
255 George Street, Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., 11l William Street, Melbourne; Dalgety & Co., Brisbane;
Elder, Smith & Co., Adelaide and Perth.
&
ft*
sf.
Hand-forged
from solid bats
of special steel
Kropp Razors are made at Sheffield, England,
by the world’s most expert craftsmen.
Made so well that every Kropp always has
a keener, finer cutting edge than cast steel
or. machine-stamped razors. Kropp means
day to day comfort in shavirg
for the rest of your life.
KROPP
never requires grinding
Individually tested, and fully guar-
anteed. Black, Ivory or Xylonite
handles. From the usual dealers.
Wholesale only : OSBORNE
GARRETT & Co.,Ltd.,
London, England,
fsd
AVOID SUBSTITUTES:
Every genuine Kropp stamped “Made
and ground in Sheffield, England."
“The Examiner”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
“Weekly Courier”
Published
Every
Wednesday
if any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
the" VENUS"
plans the u)orld
fM
m
m
w.
m
m
m
WA
The first rough suggestion—the skilful
and accurate working out, the sharp
detailed drawings, all the .preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive effort, call for the use of VENUS
PENCILS. Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the design of a simple household
article, the pencil is the first requirement; the
VENUS the first pencil.
1 7 Blacklead Degrees 68-9 H, sd. each, 4/9 per dozen. Super Copying (Medium and Hard),
Od. each, 5/9 per dozen. Venus Copying (Medium and Hard), 4d. each, 3/9 per dozen.’
Pen and Picture
The
STATE
THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Shadow Shows
In “The Woman Disputed” (United
Artists) Norma Talmadge appears in the
role of an outcast girl of exceptional beaury
who walks the streets in the Austrian city
of Lemberg. Lieut. Paul von Hartman
(Gilbert Roland) and his friend, a Russian
officer on furlough, rescue the lady, set
her up in business and fall in love
with her. Things threaten to get dull,
but the Great War providentially mobilises
the rivals. Miss Talmadge is on the eve
of marrying
the Austrian
1 i e u t e nant
when his Rus-
si a n friend,
now a colonel,
captures Lem-
berg. While
the machine-
guns are rat-
tling and the
shells bursting
outside, the
Russian
colonel finds
time from the
u nard uous
duties of a
military com-
mander in hos-
tile territory
to suggest to
Miss Talmadge
that she shall
become his
temporary re-
treat from the
NORMA TALMADGE
horror of war.
She consents when she learns that her sacn-
fice will save thousands of Austrian soldiers.
Lieut. Hartman recaptures the city, thougn
too late to save Miss Talmadge’s virtue.
Refusing to listen to her explanations, he
turns her from him; but General Headquar-
ters have heard of her glorious deed of pariot-
ism and a field-marshal pins the appropriate
decoration on her chest while the whole Aus-
trian army kneels before her. This satisfies
the lieutenant, who presumably marries her.
This picture is described as sophisticated and
unconventional. It is as sophisticated as
Woop Woop, and strays about as far from
the beaten track as a tramcar.
THE LOOKIES.
A Bulletin man was present at the
dawn of a new era in the art or industry
of entertaining the public recently. The sun-
rise occurred in a small room at Menzies’,
Melbourne, before a group of pressmen _en
gaged in digesting a free lunch and trying
to look like scientific experts. It was a
demonstration of the wonders (or horrors,
according to your way of looking at it) of
Baird’s Television apparatus.
A small cabinet, like one of those de luxe
radio receiving-sets, stood against the wall
in the darkened apartment. It had a single
goitrous-looking eye, about a foot in diameter,
and the thing glared at the assemblage hke
a malevolent Cyclops. The demonstrator
turned a couple of knobs, and the subdued
roar which seems inseparable from all forms
of entertainment nowadays filled the atmo-
sphere. Suddenly the eye gleamed a baleful
red, and the face of a pretty girl appeared
in the pupil, as if the instrument were
thinking of its best girl or something. . A
sceptical spectator went behind the cabinet
to see if she was concealed therein, but
returned satisfied there was no deception.
One of her cheeks was a trifle distorted, and
she appeared to be looking through a tropi-
cal downpour, but she was quite recog-
nisable. In fact, one of the pressmen recog-
nised an acquaintance and instinctively
greeted her. To the surprise of everybody
she replied. It appeared she was situated
two storeys above, but was in radio com-
munication. The demonstrator invited her
to sing, which she did, very prettily. Then
portion of a violinist played part of a fiddle,
and after that a puppy made its appearance
and barked dutifully. Every now and then
the machine ran amok; a stream of girls’
faces or puppy-dogs would rush across the
Cyclops optic into infinity and tear back
again, while the owner’s voice remained
mysteriously chained to the present. This,
the demonstrator explained, was due to the
fact that the machine was only temporarily
installed, and was apt to become agitated or
enraged by people walking about the corri-
dors.
Frankly, the present writer found the
exhibition more comic than awe-inspiring;
but that is not to say that Baird’s invention
is not pregnant with possibilities. In fact,
its possibilities are apt to make the thought-
ful dizzy. Writer was present at an early
showing of the talkies in Australia only five
years ago, and he thought them appalling. In
their then condition nobody would have
walked a block to hear them, except out of
idle curiosity. To-day the crowds are queue-
ing at 100 street corners for the privilege.
From an electrical viewpoint there appears
to be no theoretical reason why the lookies
—or whatever the Americans will eventually
call them—should not have a success just as
sensational.
In that case, the future looks rosy or
black, according to your way of thinking.
The theatre of the succeeding generation will
be a radio broadcasting station. Just as
scarcely anybody troubles to-day _ to go and
look at a flesh-and-blood Australian actress,
however attractive, so long as he can have
the shadow of Norma Talmadge potted in
Hollywood sent through the post and deliv-
ered to him in a suburban cinema, so scarcely
anybody will worry to take the arduous
trip into the city when he can recline at
ease at home and see a 100 p.c: lookie
projected on a screen hung across his sitting-
room. According to the proprietors of Mr.
Baird’s invention, it is already possible to
broadcast a moving-picture of a horse-race,
complete with the yells of the bookies, the
sobs of the punters and the bad language
of the jockeys, while the event is actually
in progress. Hence the first editions of the
morning papers will be thrown on the
nation’s bedroom ceiling while the nation
sips its morning tea. The second edition
will be screened on the end of the citizen’s
railway carriage as he speeds to his busi-
nees. Really progressive journals will broad-
cast the day’s murder as it is happening, and
the item will be accompanied by the last
dying groans of the victim, and any remarks
he may happen to make relative to the dis-
position of the overdraft.
The next step, no doubt, will be to equip
the Cyclops eye with X-ray powers, so that it
can look into anything (these will be the
snoopies or nosies). Then the whole world
will lead a public life, and there will be no
object in wearing clothes except for warmth
and comfort. Such ideas may appear fan-
ciful ; but this is a fantastic age.
Incidentally, as these words are being
penned, a cable has arrived stating that
the first general televised broadcast had
occurred in Britain. According to the inven-
tor, men’s faces came though better than
women’s —being harder.
The Inky Way
Langdon Bonython having resigned from
the board that administers the Common-
wealth Literary Fund, S. Talbot Smith, an
Adelaide lawyer whose initials have been
familiar to Bulletin readers for 30 years,
has been appointed. Mungo Macallum, of
N.S.W., and Sugden, of Victoria, are the
other trustees. But the duties of any Tielper
to “distressed” literary men in Talbot
Smith’s State ought to be light. Gillen and
Basedow. Grenfell Price and Cockburn,
Josiah Symon and Glynn, Melrose, Archi-
bald Strong, Gellert, Dr. Souter and “S.T.S.”
himself —none of them are likely to need
assistance in their declining years. The only
South Aus. pensioner for years has-" been
a lady.
“Avon”: Though George Fenwick was a
Conservative till the day of his death, he
helped to pave the way fop the Liberal vic-
tory of Ballance in 1890. In 1888 he made
the Otago Daily Times the vehicle for a
vigorous attack on sweating; he even took
the platform at public meetings and de-
nounced the offenders (big advertisers, too!)
by name. That was the beginning of a
wave of dissatisfaction with existing social
conditions that swept through Maoriland.
Two years later, when Fenwick added to his
duties as managing director those of editor,
he did so as an uncompromising opponent of
the Administration his campaign had placed
in power. His party was in opposition for
the whole period—2o years—that he occu-
pied the chair.
“M.G.”: I know another paper-boy who
should have a bright career in journalism
presently. He was one of a crowd
watching a brisk mill between a loafer who
was fighting-drunk and a hotel chuckerout
in King-street, Sydney. Sobriety told, and
the defeated reveller was moving off, when
the urchin piped up: “Sun and Noose!
Just out! Every round o’ the fight!”
“Imogen”: Percy Jenkin, of Melbourne
Herald, is more than its causerie-column
writer (B. 9/10/’29). He is its resident poet
and chief-of-staff —and that paper’s chiefs
chair is no rest-home. He is also “John
Perrybingle,” of the Weekly Times.
Another of the entries for The Bulletin’s
First Novel Competition, “The Vanish-
ing Horsemen,” by A. E. Yarra, is getting
into book-covers. It was listed with the
“highly commendeds,” on the strength of
which the author sandpapered it carefully
when the manuscript went back and sent
it to Hutchinson’s, who will produce it in
Australia and England in a 7s. 6d. edition
early next year. Hutchinson’s have the
right to publish the next two books by the
same author. Yarra is an old Inky Way-
farer. Since leaving his card with the
Hohenzollerns, he has busied himself run-
ning country newspapers, and is now out
in the N.S.W. wheat belt at Deniliquiu.
The Palette
“M.G.S.” : Bohemian memories cluster about
the spot in Collins-street, Melbourne, where
Politzer’s cafe used to stand. Here fore-
gathered Percy Leason, “Virgil,” George
Benson, J. S. MacDonald (now director of
Sydney’s Gallery), John Coleman, and other
artists who were to achieve fame or oblivion.
Some of them got free lunch and dinner in
exchange for one of their pictures per month.
The arrangement must have satisfied Polit-
zer, for it remained in operation for several
years. Politzer, by the way, called his eating-
house “The Boulevard,” and hung out a sign.
The city fathers made him remove the name
from the sign because “it carried a sug-
gestion of impropriety !”
“C.Q.”: A find made in the course of
excavations for a new basement to premises
in Bourke-street has given Melbourne
archaeologists something to puzzle over. It
is a queer nightmare figure carved in wood.
Probably it was the work of some ribald
European sailor who had seen examples of
South Sea island art. Another theory is
that somebody smuggled one of Epstein’s
sculptures into the country and buried it
deep in Bourke-street.
English poster art has gone whole-
heartedly over to Futurism, so it says some-
thing for the merit of the work of P. A.
Trompf, of Melbourne, that his orthodox but
effective study of an Australian landscape
won the first prize offered by the Orient Co.
for industrial designs. Most of the English
artists who submitted designs for shipping
posters had evidently never looked at a ship,
and one who perpetrated an “Australian”
scene threw in a bevy of nude and dusky
maidens pursued by a kangaroo. Trompf
commands a larger audience in Victoria than
Streeton or Longstaff. H’is posters ar<>
among the finest on the railways hoardings


gWARDEg
50MEDAB
IglPjgW i
IPerthI
f \
r
lP POiNTHtN-r TO HIS HAJtsrv r Hf ,
it\ S' *■ «•*. *">c
A—..
lip,. il
pi
morn
FINE
m
m
r^~\
\M
;-:t
AS EXCLUSIVELY SUPPLIED TO THE ffijU'’"
Cms
John'OewaroSonsli
c.. .
3
Ss.
*&:
Distillers PERTH,(ScoNaAd)& LONDON
.? »
:
&
»*
r'
PRODUCE OF SCOTLAND
CUS™”
ipn llc
yNDIR r Hf supervision OF Tut common*** 1
H)
m
l
rd
The Spirit of
Our Ancestors
For generations Dewars
has been a trusted ser-
vant of mankind.
Its constancy of charac-
ter and ripe old age
gives a rare stimulation
to life’s work.
Such is the unfailing
service of
DEWARS


For
SPORTING and
TARGET USE
sdf
“HUNTER” Revolver, .22 calibre (as illustrated), 7 chambers, fires .22-calibre Short and
Long cartridges, 10-inch barrel, well balanced, comfortable wood grip. Made by Harrington
and Richardson. 40/- post free. Length over all, 14 inches.
“EXPERT” .22-calibre, 7-chamber revolver. Fires .22-calibre Short, Long and Long-rifle
cartridges, break action, lOin. barrel. Accurate and reliable. Made by Harrington and Richardson.
Superior quality. Highly recommended. 70/- post free. Length over all, 14 inches.
“HANDY GUN,” 410-gauge, single-barrel shot pistol. Throws a- close, even pattern. Shoots
ordinary 410-gauge shot-gun cartridges, any size shot. This is a very popular gun among
motorists and horsemen. It is light, compact and effective. Length of barrel 12J inches.
Automatic ejector model. Length over all, 17 inches. 60/- post free.
Send for “G U NCR AFT,” our new 7 2-pap e catalogue of Guns and Rifles, crammed full of
interesting information about shooting. '. Post free.
Va
PTY. LTD.
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Delightful!
There’s cheering and
satisfaction in every
quenching
bottle of
Refreshing'!
zm
Best
R®B
lager
"ESc'hs LiMlTlll
RB
GENUINE LAGER.
and
DA
DINNER ALE.
mm
CCCfc
CCS
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
By taking the Caulfield Guineas on Satur
day Pentlieus further added to the reputa-
tion of _ Rossendale as a sire of classic
and semi-classic winners. Rampion carried
off the Guineas in 1926, and Ramulus was
runner-up 12 months ago. Punters were
inclined to make Pentlieus their first ehoich.
He actually ousted Limber Up in the bet-
ting ; but money then came with a rush tor
Jack Holt’s representative, whose price con-
tracted from 9 to 2 to 5 to 2. The Sydney
representative' had the race virtually won
half a mile from home, as Spanish Galleon
(12 to 1), though on level terms, wasn't
troubling him. Limber Up displayed grit by
coming from a long way back to run the
E. M. Pearce filly to half a head for second
place. Lineage (fourth) had a bad passage.
She may avenge herself on Spanish Galleon
in the Oaks.
Green Wave (Greenstead—Adjie) is the
fastest juvenile in Australasia, judged on
his Debutant Stakes display at Caulfield.
He carried a 101 b. penalty, yet was sent out
asto 4 favorite. Ashley Reed’s mount got
away badly, and before a furlong had been
covered was third last in a strung-out field.
He made heavy weather at the home turn,
but, securing a clear run at last, finished
with meteoric speed. Frank Dempsey
squeezed Kaftan (10 to 1) home by half a
head. Green Wave threatens to be a hot
pot for the Maribyrnong Plate. Both Kaf-
tan and the third horse, Patrician, are by
Moabite; former is trained by Joe Mulcahy,
who was head man to W. S. Ilickenbothain
in the days of Carbine. He belongs to
Clive Leonard, member of the V.A.T.C.
committee. Girouette found her legs quickly,
and led for a while, but was wide out in
the straight and missed a place.
High Syce did not land the Caulfield Stakes
nearly so well as his Cup adherents had
expected. Wagering opened with MacShort-
odds demanding 5 to 1 and offering 4 to 1
Black Duchess. These quotes were mere
“feelers,” void—as usual —of liberality,
High Syce started at 3 to 1 on, and Black
Duchess drifted to 10 to 1, the second
favorite being Royal Charter (7 to 1).
Galloping very attractively, Black Duchess
looked like registering a runaway victory.
She led until 50 yards from the post. High
Syce had to be ridden desperately to over-
haul the Magpie mare; he won decisively
enough, but not in the style of a champion.
However, such a searching test should be
helpful in preparation for the Caulfield
Cup. Balmerino finished last, but travelled
really well in the early stages. He ought
to be cherry-ripe when the Melbourne Cup
arrives.
Mrs. L. It. Buxton has more reason to be
proud of Highland than of High Syce. High-
land may lack stamina, but no gamer horse
ever looked through a bridle. Carrying 9.10,
the impost under which Hopscotch scored in
1896, he was sent out at 2 to 1 for the
Toorak Handicap. Stage Saint (20 to 1),
with a pull of 341 b. in weight, was in con-
trol at the straight entrance, where lion-
hearted Highland settled down to overhaul-
ing the leader. He accomplished the feat
with half a neck to spare, and incidentally
lowered the course record for one mile to
1.39 —a quarter of a second faster than the
time established by Kalloni in the Toorak
Handicap of 1928. Kalloni competed on
Saturday, but performed ingloriously. His
stable-companion, Faramaneh (5 to 1),
gained third honors.
Silent Quest (12 to 1) surprised her owner,
John Wren, by appropriating the 1010 Wel-
ter, for which Standard Bearer was a warm
favorite. This mare is trained by Chris
Moore, the old-time jockey. Sydney jockey
W. Cook excelled in his handling of Silent
Quest, but his efforts on Toper—another
Wren prad—in the Caulfield Guineas were
unavailing. Toper carried much stable-money.
The Riverina-bred Nightlark (5 to 1),
hailing from the same locality as Sir Alogy,
an Australian Hurdle and Steeplechase hero,
put up a new time record for “about two
miles" in the Ringwood Steeple. He led
by half a furlong at one stage, but tired and
lasted just long enough to win from Namera
(12 to 1). There was fair money for him,
but, on the whole, Melbourne backers com-
menced the Spring meeting badly.
High Syce is a warm favorite for the Caul-
field Crip, but the horse from Queensland,
FRIENDLY ADVICE.
REFEREE: “You two coves’d soot th’ mob a lot better if y’ worked up a bit uv ’ate.”
though a good one, is no champion, and 9st.
41b. is a big weight. The Bulletin prefers
Paquito with Bst. 81b.; the Maoriland steed s
form in Sydney has been excellent, and he
was going very strongly at the end of the
Metropolitan. Then Black Duchess (Bst.
91b. j likes Caulfield, and her two recent per-
formances have been creditable. Others well
in the market are Prince Viol (6st. 121 b.),
Alfred the Great (Bst. lib.), and Second
Wind (Bst. 71b.). and it would not be sur-
prising if Octember (7st. 41b.) ran a good
race This Page fancies Paquito, 1; Black
Duchess, 2; Syce Knight, 3. Black Duchess
looks a very good place bet.
* * * *
It was reserved for Phar Lap to equal
Biplane’s achievement of winning the Rose-
hill Guineas, the A.J.C. Derby and the
Craven Plate in the same year. Owners of
crack three-year-olds generally give the
Craven Plate a miss, but Telford decided
that to withdraw his champion would be
throwing away a rich stake; and he was
right. Yet the bookmakers offered 5 to 4
against Phar Lap in a field of four. The
going was heavy, and they reasoned that
he might be no mudlark, whereas Mollison
was. As it happened, Phar Lap was always
within striking distance of Mollison, and it
took very little exertion on his part to shake
off E. M. Pearce’s gelding. In a few strides
he was clear, and at the end the margin
was four lengths and the time 2min. Hisec.,
Amounis just beating Loquacious for third
place. So Telford’s cheque for the meeting
amounted to £8940 —an easy first —and Phar
Lap still has his Melbourne engagements to
fulfil. He has not been taken out of the
Cup, as was threatened, though in view of
Telford’s announcement it would be unwise
to back him till the day of the race.
Incidentally, Duncan was very much
to the fore on Craven Plate day. In addi-
tion to his Pliar Lap success, he won on
Cathmar in the Members’ Handicap, and was
first home on Euclare in the Gimcraek
Stakes, but this race was given to Trenette
owing to interference. Sydney has no light-
weight who is so effective in a finish. With
Munro on top (Duncan had gone back to
Melbourne) Cathmar was second to the
handsome Comanche (2 to 1) in the Clib-
born Stakes on Saturday. There is not
much of him, but he is an improving cus-
tomer and very game.
Nightmarch wound up an excellent meet-
ing for Louisson, his Maoriland owner, with
a fine win in the Rand wick Plate. He went
out at 10 to 9 and Winalot at 5 to 4, but
Winalot finished a disappointing third, be-
hind Ividaides, whom Niglitmarch beat by a
couple of lengths. Kidaides seemed to be
going as well as the Maoriland horse at one
stage of the struggle in the straight, but
could not sustain his run—he was giving the
Epsom winner 41b. (In the Wednesday he
had cleared out from the field in the Sydney
Handicap, so the gelding from South Aus.
is evidently a greatly improved horse. Wina-
lot was thought by some to have pulled up
a bit dicky after' the Randwick Plate, but
there could not have been much wrong with
him, as he was backed for the Melbourne
Cup that night. Perhaps the pace was too
.slow for White’s chestnut —it took 3min.
37isec. to run the two miles.
On the whole it was a .very good meeting
for the bookmakers; but then the A.J.C.
Spring meeting generally is. Winners on the
last day were David’s Day (12 to 1) in
the Canoubury Stakes, Bonnie Marjorie (S
to 1) in the Chester Handicap. King Con-
rad (16 to 1) in the Waverley Handicap
and Western Lass (10 to 1) in the Final
Handicap; and on the third day all the
firsts, except Phar Lap, were outsiders. Fol-
lowing horses like Phar Lap and Night-
march sometimes pays, but trying to pick
the card is a fool’s game.
The one blot on racing as conducted at
Randwiek is the Steeplechase. Fields are
nearly always small and poor, and accidents
are frequent. On Saturday Stony, an idol
in other years, fell and broke his neck. On
June 12 this Page wrote: “Stony lost his
rider but continued over the jumps as he
had done in the First Hurdle race. In his
great days the poor faithful old beggar raced
in the colors of very wealthy men, but there
is precious little sentiment in the game
nowadays, so the lion-hearted animal that
so nearly won the Sydney Cup five years
ago—and he was getting up in years then —
will probably have to continue climbing over
jumps until he breaks his neck.” The ful-
filment of the prophecy is no credit to the
rich men in question. One of them was
recently praised by a newspaper for his
generosity, but evidently his generosity
doesn’t extend to horseflesh.
* * * *
For Randwiek on Saturday (City Tatt.’s
meeting) :
Flying Handicap: Beckwith; next, Mar-
garethal.
Novice Handicap : Roley; nekt, Brockway.
City Tatt.’s Handicap: Fujisan or Sun-
flare ; next, Spearman.
Club Welter: King William or Fujisan;
next, Loud Praise.
When P. A. Connolly, of Westralia,
bought Colored in Sydney it was thought
he had the Centenary Cup in view, but
Colored —a good horse or The Bulletin is
greatly mistaken—was not produced for that
race on Saturday. It was won by Battledore
(14 to 1) from Cactus and Dawn of Youth.
Battledore, a locally-bred animal (he is by
Cunjeboy out of a Sparta mare), returned
excellent divs.: £10 13s. for 10s. on the
s.-o. tote, and £2 9s. for a place. The
W.A.T.C. hung up £2000 for the event.
❖ : ! : ❖ :Jc
“Hotham”: The McPherson Government
got its racing reform bill through the Vic-
torian Assembly with little amendment,
though a slight reduction was made in the
schedule of Hunt Club meetings, while that
for charity meetings was increased. The
bill is expected to go through the Council
without trouble.
* * *
J. T. Higgins, for some years chairman
of the A.J.C stipendiary stewards, went
back to India a few days before the Spring
meeting at Randwiek. Before holding his
N.S.W. appointment the departing guest had
considerable experience of racing in India,
and when he resigned from the A.J.C. lie
returned to his old love as chairman of the
Royal Calcutta Turf Club’s stewards.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Yankee Pete Sarron (9st.) and Billy
Grime (9st. lib.) met in a return contest
at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night before
a poor house. Sarron reversed the result of
their first fight; he proved too strong and
rugged for the Australian. Any chance
Grime might have had was spoilt by a badly-
cut eye in the fifth round. Referee Wallis
examined the injury at the end of the eighth,
but Grime refused to quit. However, the
third man closed proceedings when the
round was over and gave Sarron the verdict.
* * * *
“Si Anu” : Different climes, different man-
ners ! In Ceylon the teaching of the fistic art
is subsidised by the Education Department.
Over 40 native seminaries receive regular in-
struction from expert pugs, and the police
have been ordered to assist in the movement.
The notion behind the scheme is that the
Cinghalese, who isn’t half as gentle as he
looks, will be encouraged to resort to his fists
instead of to the knife or the pistol when
another man purloins his glass of toddy or
makes eyes at the wife. Something of the
same sort might be done in Australia to
wean the thug from the bottle.
* * * *
The only pleasing feature of the Zikmund-
Browning wrestling match at Melbourne
Stadium on Saturday night was the small-
ness of the house. In a most ludicrous exhi-
bition, both men indulged in all the gallery
appeals so popular a few years ago, but the
sarcastic comments from the handful of spec-
tators indicated that the “sport” had lost
its old illusion. Referee Bridges terminated
the show in the fifth round by disqualifying
Zikmund, Browning having scored a fall in
the third.
The Kangaroos scored another meritorious
win in England on Saturday by beating
Huddersfield, premiers of the Northern
Union, by 18 (4 tries and 3 goals) to 8 (4
penalty goals). It was a great achievement
to keep such a side as Huddersfield fron.
crossing the line, especially as Spencer and
Busch had to go off injured early in the
second half. In the mid-week match against
Castleford, a new club, the tourists ran away
from their opponents, scoring 53-2.
* * Ms $
“Rubbish Tip” : Pew folk fall harder than
professional athletes who have outlived their
earning powers. A glance through the “trans-
fer list” of the English Rugby League pub-
lished before the present season commenced
is eloquent. Van Heerden, a great wing
threequarter, who came to Australia with
the Rugby Union Springboks in 1921, later
signed up as a pro. with Wigan Club in
Lancashire. He was a great success for
years, and brought a liantle of brass to the
club coffers. Realising he was done, last
year Wigan sold him to York, and now
York is offering him to the first comer for
£25!
❖ ❖ ❖ $
Sodden tracks did not prevent some good
performances at the G.P.S. sports on Syd-
ney Cricket Ground on Saturday. Sydney
Grammar took the title with 42 points, F. W.
O’Brien, who had run second in the 100 and
220, winning the quarter all the way late in
the afternoon, and landing his side home from
Sydney High by 3 points. O’Brien’s time,
50 4-5sec., equals Jim Carlton’s record for
the race. R. Ashbarry, who won the 300
and the long-jump, helped to compile High’s
score of 39. The star of the day was J. Met-
calfe, another High performer, who put up
a new schools record for the high-jump with
5ft. lOin. King’s won the junior title with
41 5-6 points, Shore running a close second
with 41.
(Continued on page 41.)
A DELICATE DISTINCTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Board of Control has ukased that, prior to
the selection of the next Australian XI, player-
writers may dissect the actual performance of a
fellow-player, either with the bat or in the field,
hut they must not prejudge his eligibility as a
candidate for the XI.” — Bulletin, 2/10/’29.
lie made a hundred, Scroggins did, but
Lord! he’d luck in lumps.
They missed him in the gully twice and once
behind the stumps
Before he’d double figures reached. And there
were chances three,
When he had settled down to hit, muffed on
the boundary.
The googlies had him tied in knots. I never
saw him cut
And glance the way a tradesman should.
He made his hundred. But
He took eight wickets, Blinker did. But
here’s the simple strength
Of that: no batsman came along to knock
him off his length.
They poked and pottered just as if he’d been
the Trumble type
Instead of going out to smack the cover off
the tripe.
It’s easy right-abouting chaps in such a
funk and fret.
They queered themselves. Went through the
side? Well, you might say so. Yet
A rattling field, they reckon Shugg. All day
he tore around;
He must know ev’ry blooming blade of grass
upon the ground.
Ilis hands are fairly safe, perhaps; some
hottish ones he stopped,
But spare me days! you should have seen
one teaser that he dropped.
My word! it fairly broke them up, the
coves upon the Ilill.
It wasn’t Test match standard, that. A
rattling cover? Still
N.S.W.
IFORD.


I I 11 If ///
I I
4
*
mt
&
f/ tmJk
r/s
sr>;
c ,r- >
<?i
if
0
T —7TTT'
rfe.
11
\ *
>7
t£
I’ l >“
‘II -1
jXrrr
n :>..<
'y
-
X 3 -
to?*
vV/
7S
-
%
• -7
From the giant trees of the forest, matured
through the years, the wood used for the
separators in Clyde Batteries is obtained.
Intense care is taken in the final selection
to ensure the inclusion of only clear-grained
wood. To make assurance doubly sure this
wood is then subjected to special treatment
to guard against the presence of any injurious
substances.
Not only with the separators, but with all
other ingredients used in the manufacture
of Clyde Batteries it is this careful attention
to detail that gives Clyde those well-known
qualities of high capacity and longer life.
the
ALBION TRUCK DEPARTMENT,
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING CO., LTD.,
107-109 PARRAMATTA ROAD,
Camperdown, N.S.W.
MORE POWER TO YOU.
Clyde Batteries for Cars, Radio and Home Lighting are made by
The Clyde Engineering Co., Ltd., Granville, N.S.W., largest
manufacturers of Storage Batteries in Australia. Obtainable at all
garages and radio dealers.
CLYDE BATTERY SALES AND SERVICE DIVISION,
106-110 Goulburn Street, Sydney.
INTER-STATE DISTRIBUTORS.
MELBOURNE.
The Clyde
Engineering
Co., Ltd.
BRISBANE.
The Clyde
Engineering
Co., Ltd.
ADELAIDE.
Cornell,
Limlited.
PERTH.
Unbehaun and
Johnstone
(W.A.), Ltd.
LAUNCESTON
AND HOBART.
W. & G. Genders
Pty., Ltd.


W. W. GREENES
GUNS
'*7*S
W. W. GREENER LTD., Birmingham.
Wholesale Australian Representatives:
w. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.,
405-07 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, C.l.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia am! the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers. Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
*erte»
DOES
SAVE
PETROL
Wholesale Agents and Stockists:
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BERT :"Thats Fielder on the
Boundary. ”
tc ,
<3ERT ’. WwAT AN INSIGNIFICANT
little manV
Bert : "oh, &ut hes a. wonderful
CATCH !'
G«E-t3T HOW MUCH
»S HE Worth ? w
Tna and Ont«
£ . .
“Fitzcray”: Victorian cricket, as far as
Melbourne, is concerned, takes on a new
feature this season, a special team of colts
bei.ng included in the pennant competition,
following the example set by South Aus-
tralia a couple of years ago. The youngsters
will be skippered by Edgar Mayne, while
Liddicut and Blackie, the other two official
coaches, will also pay them special attention,
As the competition now includes 14 teams,
the colts, all of whom are below the age of
22 years, will play each week the team which
formerly had the bye. The idea of bringing
the young entry 1 into the senior ranks is an
excellent one. N.S.W. and Queensland, which
have been dabbling tentatively with colt
teams, should follow suit, and pit the neo-
phytes against ilie veterans, from whose
example they are likely to learn more than
years of advice at the nets can teach them.
* * * *
“Gabba”: An old cricket trick played in
Brisbane the other day has received special
attention from the fact that the victim, was
Oxenham, the Australia Eleven all-rounder.
He was batting for his club, Toombul, and
the bowler noted that he was backing up
too enthusiastically. So, instead of deliver-
ing his next tall, the bowler held on to it
and put the wicket down, with Oxenham
yards out of his crease. It was a thoroughly
legitimate move; the omnipotent “W.G.”
is said not to have despised it. It has never
been popular with the crowd, however, and
on this occasion they voiced their dissatisfac-
tion so loudly that the trundler had to be
taken off.
* * * *
“Richmond”- The members nf the next
Australian team for England will be the
mSltally“wardedafSurTon secS
if we except J. C. White, of Zummerzet. and
liis £lOOO Yes!imnnml P-ieh nffiver will o-pt
£5O on goin" aboard' £4OO dnrin" his stay
fEnglaXanfmd on°return “ n addiSon
to 80s a week exnenses TTe will however
have to contract not to' return to England
«« q ■nlntr.Av -Pnr* exTr/-* ttnUiio -nriii r\nf
a stopper on the League clubsHn the North
of England, who have of late years shown
a strong fa’hey for ■•Colonial" Jlayers. At
the present time cricketers from Australia,
South Africa and the West Indies are play-
ins in the Ttincashire Teoane nlone
mg mjne League alone.*
.
Bramall Lane”: Not since the days of
Frank Mitchell and F. S. Jackson lias York-
shire produced an amateur of the calibre of
A. T. Barber, the Oxford skipper, who will
lead the county next season. Barber is de-
scribed as a brilliant batsman and field, and
he is that unusual bird in high-class cricket,
a product of Shrewsbury School.. The
“Slops” have long been noted for their row-
ing and Soccer football output, but very few
top-notch cricketers have come from the
school on the Severn. Barber is also a
Soccer Blue, and is rated one of the best
half-backs playing, either in the amateur or
professional ranks.
* =i= * *
“Aigburth” • There has been a controversy
in England recently as to who was the first
great leg-break bowler—that is the right-
hander turning from the leg, a very rare bird
in modern cricket. Australia has a pretty
good exponent in Ron Oxenham, though he
does not rely altogether on that side of his
trundling ability. Ey gcnernl consent in tlie
home of cricket, the pnlm hns been nwnrded
to an Steel, who rnnks only second
to W. G. Grnce in the English cricket
P , crkins ’ for ycars
Pnt-t-r J Y tke M.C.C., always swoie by
's- a T j oa g- fo rgotten professionai “But
sou?” S be was a thirsty
“Cash Amateur”: The N.S.W. cricket
heads, who are always vociferating that
t heir representative players are lilywhite
amateurs, have published the scale of pay-
ments allowed to players and umpires for
the coming season of big cricket. The Inter-
national Amateur Federation has made it
a law that no athlete or player of games
can receive more than a cash allowance of
ss. outside his bona fide expenses and remain
an amateur. The N.S.W. scale allows
players at home £l, a day, plus £1 per tour
or home match to pay for the transport of
their baggage. Away from home, players got
255. per day, Sundays included. At the same
time, the scorer, a most important individual,
gets a quid a day only, and in his case
Sunday is cut out, which seems rather an
injurious differentiation. As for the umpires
—oh, well, who loves an umpire, anyway?
* * * *
“Popping Crease” : The return of Arthur
Mailey from a coaching tour in Canada has
turned the cricket statisticians to the con-
sideration of Ins performances with the ball,
J dis Test record ot 86 wickets in 28 matches
f °r an average of 34.12 is well known. Not
so widespread is the fact that since lie began
bv.S.W. grade cricket in 1906-07 he has taken
724 wickets for an average of IS in inter-
club games. In Sheffield Shield games his
figures show him credited with 175 wickets
an average of 32.45. To. bemadded to the
above tally are the figures m State matches
against visiting teams, and the minor matches
iu Britain and South Africa.
Watermen
Fitzcray”: Entries for Henley-on-Yarra,
held 011 October 26, closed without the
ex P ec ted Canadians. It had been specially
Y™TT.
Aj.® 0 , pu . J ab<! a cccpt tilt
long-held-out invitation to come to Australia
011 this occasion, while overtures had also
P «ter Wrigßt . With
Pearce also absent from the Sculls this year,
al ! *** °? Challenge
Eights. INlosman, holders of the title, are
o'* tlf £ a ? n . S h ?l pa^ e ?
ot ‘ 01 sht from the Sydney elub. las
“““ t,lc flrst «* soma
* v a b ’ a ' one-
,<T( A ~ a , c ~
Bondi : One of the features of the
Henley-on-Yarra carnival which most iru-
presses the visitor from Sydney’s surf
beaches is the number of life-savers em-
ployed by the committee to patrol the banks
of the canalised Yarra during the carnival.
To the ordinary individual unimpressed by
the stream so revered by all Melburnians,
these people seem superfluous, since all any-
one who falls int.o the Yarra has to do is
to wade ashore or even drink all the water
and then climb out. Still, your Melburnian
takes everything seriously—-even the Yarra.
* * * *
“Blade”: The N.S.W. Rowing Associa-
tion has wisely decided to have the State
champion eight-oar and sculling races on the
Nepean at Penrith. On the Parramatta it is
impossible to see more than a portion of any
race ’ °? three-miles stretch of the Nepean
sv<5 v< r r . y c ? n be wat(die d from start to
fi,n I S K The Australian championships, held
at p enrith for the first time two years ago
v ‘[? re a . n 01 T staadlI1 S success, financially and
otherwise It only remains now for the G.P.S.
head-of-the-nver event to be transferred to
river on which Bench nnd Ilnnlnn mn.de
rowm & history.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: What appears a
rather invidious attitude has been taken up
by t he N.S.W. lawn tennis authorities. All
members of affiliated clubs have been notified
that they must not play in exhibitim
matches against or in company with pro
fessionals. Following on the going over of
Leslie Baker to the professional ranks and
his frank criticism of the State tennis
authorities, the action taken has provoked
a lot of criticism. The new rule will prac-
tically deprive professionals of any chance
of making a living otherwise than by coach-
ing, since exhibition matches will be impos-
sible without the co-operation of the amateur
element.
<it> , ~ . . m .
Baseline : Though the American Tennis
Association lias definitely refused to send a
team to Australia, it is possible that William
Tilden may pay ns a visit next summer. A
lot will depend on the success or otherwise
of his theatrical venture in London, but he
has already contracted to play at Cannes and
other Riviera centres next season, and is
bringing liis young protege, Wilbur Cohen,
over from America to partner him. If all
goes as is hoped, the pair will come on to
Australia, returning to America by the
Pacific route. *
* . „ * . * , . * ~
that BriUrtiS'il gjflsg ft Sa&J
standard 1 and this L especially true of the
women Plante The oX. day hlttyXt-
hall, who seems to have at last mastered an
effective overhand service, won the Califor-
nian championship, another English player
in Mrs. Harper being her antagonist in the
final. Helen Wills did not compete, but Helen
Jacobs, ranked in America as second only to
the Wills, was a starter. Californian tennis
is about as good as any in the world, and
one would like to see the fair Betty on this
side of the water to be pitted against Daphne
Akhurst.
*
“Old Q.” : Tennis notoriously runs in fami-
lies, as the Renshaws, Dohertys, and other
tennis-playing brethren of the past have
shown. Australia is something of an excep-
tion to the rule, though the Moons of
Queensland maintain it. E. F. Moon, the
international player, is the best-known of
the tribe, though bis elder brother, Clinton,
who is Queensland’s country champion, runs
him close, being a master of stroke-conceal-
ment. In sister Sadie, who is only 17, many
good judges see an Australian Helen Wills of
the near future. All three were grounded in
the game by their mother, who 'was one of
th<3 I S Jo te nov! eadmg Womon players 111 t le not
so o g a» . ________
. .
1 he Nineteenth Hole
“Westchester”: It really looks .as if the
evasive Walter Hagen will be seen in Aus-
tralia next year. With Joe Kirkwood, he
is billed to open in Maoriland next Feb-
ruary, and should be in N.S.W. a month
later. There arc so many yarns going the
rounds about the great American golfer that
he is credited with taking a leaf out of
Henry Ford’s propaganda book and starting
them himself. A recent one has grown out
of the game he played with the Prince, whom
he characteristically pronounced on his return
to New York “a perfect gentleman.” Walter
liad promised Ted a set of golf chibs designed
by himself. These later arrived, and with
them a bill for £65. Walter swears it was
a clerical error, but the yarn is too like him
for anyone to be sure about that.
* * * *
“Mulga”: The N.S.W. country golf cham-
pionship decided in Svdney last week saw
C. B. Smith, of Canberra, emerge victor
from a tough struggle with B. C. Betting
ton. Smith was for years a well-known
player in Sydney first-class company while
Bettington shares with his brother, R.H.,
the foursomes championship of N.S.W.
Steadiness was the underlying reason of
Smith’s win. Bettington was very shaky on
his approach shots, though neither of the
players invited bouquets—the golf played
was rather rotten, in fact. Still, weather
conditions were vile, and the pair cannot
be blamed for handing in a card of 161 each.
Another nine holes was ordered, and after
a 40-yard chip had been holed out by Smith,
he was returned the winner with 40, as
against 41 by Rettington.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: Victorian associates had
their glorious hour in Melbourne last week
when the State women’s golf championship
was contested. The winner was that consis-
tent player Mrs. Heath, who, at one time
or another, has picked up most of the leading
Australian golf events open to her sex. The
game ended 3 up and 1 at the 17th, the
Gippsland champion taking SO for the round,
while her opponent in the final, Miss E.
Watson, returned a card of 86.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: A golf course out of the com-
mon is the IS-hole putting course on the
top of Adelaide House, which is close by
London Bridge, Owned by Tilden Smith,
whose name is familiar to Australians, and
who recently sent a couple of Kentish miners
to Russia to study the blessings of Soviet
rule at first-hand, it is over an acre in extent,
and is planted with trees and flowers. Lon-
don now harbors nearly half a hundred of
these roof-top golf courses, though most of
‘them are adjuncts, to the big shops supply-
ing sporting materials and clothing.
* :!: * :!=
“Old Q.” : The admiration lately expressed
by Sloan Morpeth for the public spirit evinced
in the municipal courses in Australian capitals
has fallen coldly on the ears of Brisbane
followers of the Royal and Antient. In
spite of their most frenzied endeavors —they
actually seduced the Mayor into joining a
golf club —they have been unable to induce
the Greater Brisbane Bumbles to grant the
use of the convenient Victoria Park for a
municipal course. However’, the city elec-
tions are due. before long, and any candidate
who makes his main plank the provision of
a municipal course can rest assured of a
solid block vote from the golf addicts, what-
ever brand of politics he may affect.
* * * #
“Miramar”: Maoriland has got through
the annual golf championships. A. J. Shaw,
a Scot once well known in N.S.W., took the
open event, Sloan Morpeth, just returned
from Australia, failing to hang on to it,
though he later won the Dominion amateur
title. Shaw, who is professional at Napier,
brought off a good double by winning the pro-
fessional championship from E. J. Moss,
twice open champion of M.L. and three times
holder of the pros.’ event. The women’s title
was won by Mrs. Dodgshun from Miss O.
Kay in rather peculiar : Circumstances.
The pair were square at the 36th, and went
to the 38th, when Mrs. Dodgshun won 1
up. Her opponent had a tough spin, being
stymied five times in the match. This has
revived the old controversy as to the advisa-
bility of abolishing the stymie.
* H= ! i= *
All Australian golfers will welcome the
official year-book of N.S.W. golf compiled by
Messrs. Skewes and Bowman, of Sydney.
Excellently printed and illustrated with
numerous photographs of the principal club-
houses and courses, the book is a valuable
compendium for followers of the Royal and
Antient pastime. Full details of the N.S.W.
clubs are given, as well as statistics of
important tourneys and a clear and concise
abridgment of the rules of the game. To
these are added explanations of the method
of fixing the standard par for courses and
the scratch score for each.


0
o
B-Ef
RttlSTtg
MisrawS
W
v
Follow the advice of experienced motorists who
have proved B.E.S. Spark Plugs perfect under
all conditions. Equip your car and ensure
efficient ignition. Fully guaranteed. All garages.
Price 4/6.
Manufactured by
Australian Spark Plugs Pty., Ltd.
562 Spencer Street, Melbourne, C.i.
’Phones: F 4947, F 5961.
Accommodation
160.
Central,
Comfortable,
Convenient,
5 Mts. G.P.O.
Excellent
Cuisine,
Billiards,
Dancing.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TARIFF:
Weekly,
£3/3/- to
£4/4/-
Daily,
11/6 to 12/6.
Room & B’fast,
8/6 to 9/6
FL2034
F 3575
W&W26.
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRANfc
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association BE
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
‘Allenbiinys'
Glycerine <?
Black Currant
PASTILLES
Business Men!
A clear, command-
ing voice means
much to you.
Ensure this by taking
the " Allenburys ”
Pastilles they are
effective and pleas-
ant in use.
Your Chemist stocks
them. 1/- and
1/9 per box.
sdf
Car and Cycle
“Surviving Ped.”: Malcolm Campbell, who
has been out of the limelight since his
attempt on the speed-record in South Africa,
has recently been giving his idea of the
motor-car of the future. The outstanding
feature of the coming car will be the absence
of the gears which have turned so many
hairs white. Campbell presages even the
passing of the automatic gearing systems
which are now approaching perfection,
though, like most prophets, he gives no
inkling of how the revolutionary. change—
which practically means the bi-idging of the
wide gap between expansion and combustion
engines—is to be brought about. He makes
no mention, either, of provision for the safety
of the mere pedestrian. Perhaps he con-
siders the species will be extinct by the
time the perfect car comes along.
* £ * #
“Differential”: America, which bulks so
big in the motor-car industry, has at last
entered on the field of the front-wheel drive,
which French and British makers have been
exploiting with success. For some time the
well-known Miller firm, which specialises in
racing-cars, has been testing a front-drive
design, and this -is now to be put on the
general market. Known as the Ruxton, it
should be a good job, for the straight-eight
chassis is quoted at £B5O, a big price for
an American car. The clutch is in front of
the engine, and the three-speed gear is in
front of that, the operating-lever passing
through the dash.
“Whizz”: A new motor-cycle record for
Australia was put up in Sydney the other
day, when S. Goodsell of the Western Suburbs
clizb drove his T.T. Triumph over a quarter-
mile of selected road at the rate of 101.12
m.p.h. The spin was electrically timed and
was a mile an hour better than the previous
record, made some months ago on Alexandria-
avenue in Melbourne. Whether the public
roads should be utilised for performances of
the kind is another matter, and one which
might well engage the attention of the police
—local municipal authority seems always
strangely complacent.
* * * *
“Avon” : The classic road-racing event of
Maoriland, over the long, straight road from
Timaru to Christchurch, was run this year
in a gusty, dusty nor’-wester, a side-wind,
and as such much to be preferred to the
usual nor’-easter, a head-wind of diabolical
strength and persistence. It wasn’t a fast
race, the best time, made by W. McCann, a
scratch-marker, being shr. 35min. 48sec. The
winner, G. Mugford (42min.), fought out a
close finish with S. Arnst (27min.),. a young
brother of the famous Jack and Dick, win-
ning by two lengths. J. Dawson, the only
Australian representative, finished thirteenth.
.•it * * *
“Hotham”: The revived Warrnambool to
Melbourne road-race, once the most important
event of its kind in Australia, turned out
something of a fiasc'o. Marshall, a Westra-
lian rider, came in first after a gruelling
finish with Hubert Opperman. whom he beat
by a length and a half. The Westralian
was disqualified for having taken refresh-
ment at the roadside from some unauthorised
person, and the race was awarded to Opper-
man. Then Nicholson, another Victorian
rider, protested against Opperman for inter-
ference near the finish. This protest was also
upheld—but Marshall’s appeal against Ms
disqualification was allowed, so the W .A.
man emerged the winner from the tangle.
Opperman, off scratch, did the fastest ride,
Bhr. 7min. 10 l-ssec., but strong head-winds
and generally vile weather conditions were
against fast times. The amateurs were barred
from the race this year and rode a 100-
miles handicap from Colac to Melbourne in-
stead. W. R. King, the Essendon rider,
won off the 6min. mark in 4hr. 46min. 49sec.
—verv good going.
* * * . *
“Amateur Pro.”: What seems to he the
final curtain in the Standen case was rung
down in Sydney last week when the Aus-
tralian Amateur Cycling Union refused to
remit the remaining period of the two years’
disqualification imposed on the ex-Olympic
representative. Standen, who turned pro-
fessional on his return from Amsterdam in
spite of a contract not to do so, pleaded
infancy as a defence for his repudiation.
Legally good, the claim was ignored in a
sporting sense. The moral is that he who
signs on the dotted-line, as well as he who
doesn’t, must honor his undertaking or take
the consequences.
Miscellaneous
“Duckwing” : The grand old sport of cock-
ing came in for some contumelious remarks
from a magistrate who fined a party of Tam-
worth (N.S.W.) citizens for indulging in a
main. His Worship described those taking
part as “beasts.” I protest that the men
were really nature-lovers, indulging feathered
pets in their favorite amusement. A game-
cock exists to fight. If he can’t fight another
gamecock, he will fight his own shadow, or
even his own boss. I know of one English
owner who died as the result of a wound
from the spur of a cockerel that attacked
him as he came into the pen.
:Js ❖ H* H*
“Flop”: Outboard motor-boats are getting
very popular in Sydney, but at times the har-
bor is a bit too rough for these flat-bottomed
little contraptions. Those concerned have
been casting eyes on the Nepean River at
Penrith, and last week the first race for the
type in fresh water in Australia was held.
R. Smith, in 800 Saada 111., got over a
4-mile course at the rate of 40.25 m.p.h.
* * . * *
“Tadcaster”: The Rugby League Kan-
garoos in England have put up a record in
the matter of points scored to the date of
the first Test, having totted up 228 points
against 71. For the same series of games
their predecessors of 1921 registered 167 to
45. Some of the members of the team whose
selection was received in N.S.W. with a cer-
tain amount of superciliousness have been
outstanding successes. For example, the
veteran Queensland winger Spencer has
proved himself a dazzling try-getter, and Gor-
man, another ancient from the North, has
been hardly less successful at centre.
:Jc # :i- ❖
“Old Q.”: The Queensland Rugby League,
approached once more by its N.S.W. parent
with a request to patch up its feud with
the more powerful Brisbane R.L., has again
told the agitated Ma Staters to mind then-
own business. The result is an intimation
by the N.S.W. body that it will have to
reconsider the situation. That means that
the Ma State will recognise the Brisbane
body as the ruling authority in Queensland
and throw the Q.R.L. to the demnition bow-
wows. The Brisbane crowd has the allegi-
ance of most of the extra-metropolitan
centres, while it also controls the good
grounds and owns the most clubs. The
N.S.W. body, like Napoleon’s Providence,
intends to side with the strongest battalions.
* * * *
“Hooker”: Jim McLeod, the well-remem-
bered manager of the last All Black side in
Australia, has put forwaz-d a proposal _of
interest to every follower of the Union
game, It is to bi’ing over the Taranaki
High School, the crack side of its class izz
M.L., in 1931, when it is expected the Syd-
ney IJarbor Bridge will be officially opened.
The lads would play against G.P.S. teams
in Brisbane and Melbourne as well as Syd-
ney. Taranaki High has an unbeaten record
against the other big schools of Maoriland,
including that semi-collegiate Maori institu-
tion Te Aute, a team from which visited
Sydney in 1908 and played brilliant football
against Univei-sity and other crack sides.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: A unique Rugby match
was staged at Twickenham the other day,
when a fifteen made up from English and
Welsh players tackled a Scots-Ireland com-
bine, and went down 20-13. The game fol-
lowed on a ceremony which commemorated
the passing of Rowland Hill, one of the
founders of the Rugby Union as we know it
to-day, and a man who for many years stood
to r!u. footballers the world over as W. G.
Grace stood in his time to the men of cricket.
JIMMY SEARLE, the N.S.W. wicketkeeper
of long ago, who has for years been
coaching the colts of Sydney on behalf
of the N.S.W. Cricket Association.
All the Rugby Unions of the world sent
wreaths to the memorial to the great old
sportsman, the unveiling of which preceded
the match. The only discordant note was a
bitter last-moment protest from France be-
cause that country had not been invited to
add a couple of players to one side or
another —it didn’t matter which. After all,
the Gael and the Gaul are not far apart.
When there’s a row on each likes to be in it.
“Sharkbait”: The fame of the Australian
surf life-saving system has spread all over
the earth. The latest addition to the ranks
of grateful imitators is South Africa;
Durban is installing an Australian life-
saving outfit. The surf at Durban is about
as dangerous as that at St. Ivilda (Vic.) ;
besides, most of the bathers dabble inside a
huge, semi-circular sliarkproof enclosure of
iron bars. How'ever, the intention is an
excellent one, so here’s wishing the Durban
Surf Club a victim to rescue.
=!= =!: *
“Fin”: Wateivpolo, since its revival in
Australia a couple of years ago, has grown
steadily in popularity. In the days of Bar-
ney Kieran and Alec Wickham the fine
A. LOUISSON, the Maoriland owner of
Nightmarch, the nag that so narrowly
missed the Epsom-Metropolitan double.
game was played almost throughout the
Commonwealth, but it died out during the
war. So far N.S.W. and Victoria have been
the leaders in its renascence, but this season
Queensland has asked permission to enter
for the inter-State Regal Cup event, for
which Victoria and N.S.W. have been battl-
ing since it was donated, and also has
asked for a visit from a southern team.
It is probable that a Sydney side will go
north about Christmastide, playing in the
Northern Rivers towns en route.
•fc *f» *i»
“Cash Amateur” : The amateur-status ques-
tion got another airing in Sydney when Nick
Winter applied to the State athletic heads
for permission to give a hop. step and jump
exhibition at the Lithgow Eight Hour Day
sports. These were conducted under pro-
fessional auspices, sp the former Olympic
champion’s application was thrown out.
though the A.A.A. has power to grant per-
mission to amateurs to compete in the same
paddock as professionals, and even against
them. The association has not been so
queasy in the past.
* * >!= *
“Billy the Goose” : Starve the crows, the
luck is stiff. ’Ere am I, jus’ got back ag’in
to good old Kidney Pie, an’ makin’ up me
mind ter give th’ respectubble stuff a go.
Says I ter meself: “Billo, ole bird, cut out
the ponies, the goats an’ the other Ned Kelly
joints. Get down ter somethin’ wot combines,
pleshure with a certain amount uv refresh-
ment, an’ a chance uv picking up a few bob.”
I gives the crokey crowd the once over, but
they wus nearly orl tabbies. No good. Then
I strikes the bowls mob, an’ from wot I secs
uv it I was ’ome and dried. Some uv the
blokes in the club tries ter sell me allot-
ments uv land fer the firs’ few days, but
they soon tumbles to it I needs no urgin’
w’en it come ter that sort uv stuff. Ter get
back ter me point, the cows put a double
over on me. I pays out close on 15 quid
fer a pair uv woods, an’ w’en I’d taken ’em
’ome and put a little work on ’em, the sec.
pinches ’em and sends ’em orf to the -
tester. I ’aven’t ’eard ’is verdick yet, but
me resignation’s orl typed ready to bung in.
* 4: * *
“Aileron”: One of the most unpleasant
features attendant on the aeroplane is the
possibility of being burned alive in the wreck-
age should a machine crash. If the tests to
which a new ’plane engine invented by one
Allan Chorlton, of Lancashire, is being sub-
mitted work out all right, that anxiety will
vanish. The gadget is designed to burn
crude oil, which is only inflammable under
special circumstances. The fuel cost is much
less than that of petrol engines, while con-
sumption is stated to be 25 per cent, less
than in the case of petrol, h.p. for h.p. 1'
is very reassuring. All that need be feared
by passengers on a ’plane fitted with the
new engine when it drops from 6000 ft. or
so is the bump at the finish. There will b
no frying adjuncts to the flying.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“F.S.”: E. W. Tilley, of the Melbourne
firm of Handley and Tilley, recently went
to Switzerland to buy the latest watchmak-
ing machinery. The Swiss not only refused
to sell him the goods, but their press
described him as “an undesirable trader.
When he found a man shadowing him Tilley
thought it was time to leave. He had, how-
ever already made his arrangements, ami
the machinery is now being set up in a fac-
tory which already employs 100 workmen.
*
“Whittle”: Sheffield has long monopolised
a queer trade with Asia in worn-out files
and rasps. Made of special steel, these
are fashioned by native smiths into all sorts
of weapons and tools, prices paid being far
better than if the articles had been sold as
scrap. Now, to the disgust of the Tykes,
the Germans are cutting into the market.
❖ *
“Claude W.”: The industrial possibilities
of the modest peanut are not to be despised.
The latest balance-sheet of the Queensland
Peanut Board shows that £4353 was paid m
wages, £57,300 was distributed _ among
growers, mainly in the Kingaroy district, and
£50,000 was spent in the construction of new
silos and treatment plants. The North Aus-
tralian peanut-growers are also doing well.
And the industry is only in its infancy.
❖ ❖ * *
“Chev”: Melbourne and Berlin are the
only sizeable cities whose commercial aero-
dromes lie within 24 miles of their centre.
The Larkin Aircraft Co.’s airport in Mel-
bourne is situated on Coode Island. _A con-
crete road will shortly pass alongside the
ground, and intending fliers will be able
to take to the air with maximum celerity.
Few Melburnians realise the extent of this
co.’s operations. Its timetable booklet in-
cludes James Edmond’s priceless “Clipper
of the Clouds,” reprinted from The Bul-
letin.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: At one time code language
in telegrams had to consist of words derived
from Latin or some other European tongue.
An international rule allowing artificial
words followed. The words had ostensibly
to be pronounceable, but firms engaged
cypher experts who concocted combinations
liable to cause lockjaw in anyone foolish
enough to attempt to utter them. New
regulations issued by the P.M.G. require
each group of five letters to contain one
vowel. But telegraph users will get round
them somehow.
* * #
“L.S.L.”: In Auckland (M.L.) lately I
bought a packet of Australian currants for
Is—and had to pick a long stalk off nearly
every one. There was no other way of
cleaning them. On sentimental grounds I
would rather buy Australian than Califor-
nian dried fruit, but no woman is going to
endanger the peace of her household by
handing around fruitcake full of snags.
* * * *
“Esters”: The Wine Congress at Sydney
took a rather gloomy view of the future.
Overseas shipments, it was contended, can-
not be made at a profit without the Federal
bounty. If that is not renewed on its expira-
tion in August next year, thousands of acres
of vines will have to be grubbed out. Yet
surely the possibilities of the home market
have not been exhausted. There is already
a big—perhaps too big—local sale for port.
It is only a matter of time and shrewd
advertising when Australians will acquire a
taste for the delicious dry wines of the coun-
try, which are among the best in the world.
* * * *
“P.X.”: Jimson, having put his savings
into a little row of suburban (Sydney)
shops, used to lie awake o’ nights wonder-
ing what he’d do if they were left without
tenants —for the property carries a tidy
mortgage. He isn’t worrying now, so far
as one of the shops is concerned. It is occu-
pied as a licensed wine-bar, and the lease
has five years to run —no more. Yet the
other day that lease and license were sold
for over ,£5500. The rent is the same as
the other shops in the block pay—£7 a week.
In other words, for the right to sell wine
in those premises for five years somebody is
prepared to pay, besides the fair rent, a sum
of £5500 down. No wonder the Australian
wine-grower" finds it hard to get a good foot-
ing in his own country!
* * * *
“Bootless”: Secondary industry got a
start in Papua when the Ohirma desiccated-
cocoanut factory was opened by the Gover-
nor. It is an entirely Papuan show, the
shareholders being all taubadas of long
standing, and it will buy raw material from
white and native alike. Australia, which
imports about £lOO,OOO worth of desiccated
cocoanut every year, chiefly from Ceylon, is
naturally expected to furnish the chief
market.


u
g


%
2
\*v
/
vs
X
X
I
</
«v
«
pta/'V w |J
tvc/e
Jfo. 620 "4711”
Powders, perfumed
with "4711” Eau
de Cologne, 2/6 &
3/6 per box.
No. 642 Compact
Powder, perfumed
with "4711” Tosca,
4/6 each.
m
UO DC COLOGNE
wUlool congeal
An unequalled
Shampoo kiltieluu
No. 951 "4711”
Eau de Cologne
Liquid Shampoo,
3/- per bottle. Rose
and Eau de Cologne
perfume.
• 5
ml.
No. 475 "4711”
Bath Salts, per-
fumed with "4711”
Eau de Cologne.
3/6, 4/6 Si 5/6
per bottle.
No. 859 "4711”
Edit de Cologne
Soap, 1/3 per cake.
Eau de Cologne and
Lavender Perfume,
The Summer QirV
Preference!
nrhe universal popularity
of the Blue and Gold
labelled Eau de
Cologne is due to the fact
that, for nearly 150 years,
it has been made from the
finest ingredients, according
to the original recipe. It never
varies in quality, and its pur-
ity, fragrance and strength
have never been
surpassed.
When buying Eau de
Cologne insist upon the
Blue and Gold labelled
Obtainable from all leading
chemists and departmental
stores .
m
bu«Uor>lMwwl«it
‘•IOCKtNjASSE N**7U
EAU DE COLOGNE
r No. 43 No. 5
lv\o\ h Shape Original Shape
2/3 6/6
No. 50
The new size
which holds as
much as 20 of
the 2/3 size,
3 0/-; and sizes
from 1/6 to
75/- per bottle.
ffivzaclom
££Jk
No. no "4711”
"Frozoclone”
Solid Eau de
Cologne, 3/6 &
4/6.
rea
No. 463 "4711”
Cold Cream
1/9, 3/- & 3/9
No. 453 "4711”
V anishing
Cream,
1/3, 2/3 Sc 3/-
mi
O
:"Eau de
Cologne


52 Macleay St
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT, SYDNEY
(Located within the City Boundary, ten
minutes from, G.P.0 .)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 160 rooms, is now open, and
features Single Rooms, Double
Rooms with Bath, and two-, three-
and four-room Suites with Bath.
Central Heating, Hot and Cold
Water, ’Phone and Bedside Lamp
in each room. Unsurpassed
Harbor views.
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines).
Telegraphic Address: ‘‘Fifmac,'
Sydney.
Welcome and Comfort Always
Await Travellers
Seasoned world travellers, experienced in the art of finding hotel
comfort in whatever place they pause for the moment, unerringly
select the Wentworth as their temporary home while in Sydney.
The reason is obvious.
The Wentworth is abreast of the times in modern conveniences
and comfort, and is personally conducted by Mrs. Maclurcan,
whose reputation as a hotel director and restaurateur is world wide.
Wentworth
Church Hill,
Sydney.
ZD
Under
Royal
Vintage 1920.
CH AIVIPAGNE
lies mi
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Li mltad
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGKC
OiarlcsHeidsic*>
Reims
%* v l+y "****
ToH.R
George V
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrencs—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
Kayser
SHEER
CHIFFON
SILK
HOSIERY
Ladies’ Day at Randwick was a washout ;
but women went booted and spurred, as it
were, and tlie airy-fairy fabrics of the pre-
vious Monday and the opening Saturday were
seen not at all. The Governor’s lady, her
eye on the Union Club party later on, chal-
lenged the weather in fragile blue frocking,
but covered it up with a blue waterproof.
Daughter Elaine was fawn-coated above navy
satin which frothed to a cream lace fichu.
Their Exes, gathered a large party about
their lunch table. Here were Mrs. Malcolm
Mackellar, brown-coated and beaver-collared ;
the Geoffrey Hugheses, Mrs. Geoff cosy
in marmot; the Pat Osbornes; Mrs. Wells,
wife of the skipper of the Diomede; Mrs.
Willoughby Dowling; Mrs. George Mivers,
very smart in black; and Mrs. Jim Lowry,
of Maoriland.
Miss Armstrong (Fiji) was snugly hatted
in red and tailored in black. Barbara Knox
looked handsome in brown; the black-and-red
garment of knight Waley’s lady swung a
graceful cape; Mrs. George Cohen (Eleanor
Fordyce Wheeler that was) wore tweed with
leather facings; Ann Gordon and Margaret
Fairfax paddled about as happy as ducks;
Maybelle Markell wore velvet in cocoa-brown
tones; Chief Justice Adrian Knox’s lady
sported furs with her navy suit; and a sable
stole enriched Mrs. Harry Dransfield’s leaf-
brown frocking. Mrs. Norman Larkins wore
black and green confetti-spotted crepe de
Chine under a cosy tweed coat; and rose
kasha was worn by Mrs. Nigel Smith, who
hostessed a jolly lunch party.
Until noon on Saturday the weather was
as problematic as the elections. It shone
hot and blew cold alternately, so the dress-
ing was of that mixed-weather variety that
gives the stands a raggy, even though it
is a glad-raggy, look. The befurred coat and
the tailored suit once more took the air.
Adrian Knox’s lady, in a black ensemble-
lightened with a bunch of primroses and a
Baku hat, looked at once both sensible and
attractive. Lavender Stuart (Melbourne)
walked about in a furred coat. Betty Wills-
alien wore spring-like chiffons; and a wide
royal-blue hat with a touch of white kid
worn by Mrs. Roy Buckland called for a
vote of thanks. White and blue kid shoes
and a white and blue chiffon frock and coat
' completed the outfit. Another blonde who
got the highest value out of a heart-melting
blue frock was Mrs. Reggie Stafford. Mrs.
John McKelvey got a full-blooded Spanish
effect out of one of those alluring little eye
veils. The hat to wdiicli this was attached
was a small black felt. Actor Leon Gordon
was there with liis wife, who' was smart in
brown. Smart, too, was Jo O’Keeffe, who
wore a little scarlet beret and carried a
square scarlet handbag with her black suit.
Mrs. Oscar Paul sparkled above yellow,
Janet and Barbara Knox were among the
most handsomely patterned in chiffons, Helen
Stephen was one of the many young things
who sported navy. And into the pattern
of each day was woven Una Clift, the ever-
tailored ; Mrs. Herbert Kendall, to whom a
horseshoe is a magnet; Mrs. Nigel Smith,
the perfect hostess; Mrs. Hugh Belisario, an
orchid addict; and Gretel Bullmore, whose
clothes caused a mild sensation among the
younger setters.
Balloons of every color went rocketing
up to the high ceiling, red-and-white awn-
ings enclosed the long, narrow balconies,
and flower dolls in early-Victorian garb
placed to swing pensively over mounds of
blooms on each of the six or eight tables in
a normally staid dining-room in Bligli-street
—in this w-ay the Union Club prepared for
its race teaparty. By four o’clock everything
was in position, and enough cocktails to
sink a ship (in the seas of America) had
been brewed. Consett Stephen and Sliep-
heard Laidley' took their stand just within
the door of the old Conservative fastness,
and greeted the arrivals, who were handed
on to them with quite an air by the courtly
hall attendant.
The races had been a bleak experience
for many, and everybody seemed glad to turn
into the hospitable doorway. Everybody
looked as though she felt the same as the
Girl in the Flat Opposite whose greeting
was : “I got my feet wet. I sat in the stand
till I was frozen. I got cramp, and I didn’t
back a winner. For heaven’s sake where’re
the cocktails?” Hundreds of men and
women poured into the club. The women,
mostly dressed for the weather, wore tail-
ored topcoats or suits. An eye-opener of
a coat of grey Persian lamb with its fox
collar into which Mrs. Warwick Fairfax
snuggled stirred some of us to thoughts of
how much more blessed it is to sell news-
papers than to merely write for them.
Soon the pink azaleas and the dwarf trees
about the foot of the staircase were com-
pletely obscured by humans going through
the pantomime of greeting, and picking out
the posy of desire from the trays which
pretty waitresses submitted to each woman
guest. The arrival of the vice-regals was
the signal for everybody to seek tea, and
the tables, their mignonette and lilac and
•roses ignored, were quickly plucked clean
of savories and ices and fatted meringues.
Lady de Chair wore a picture frock in
powder blue shaded by a wide hat of the
same tender hue. Elaine allied a navy satin
frock and a black velvet hat. Mrs. Shep-
lieard Laidley’s soft pink and black lace
outfit was one of the afternoon’s prettiest
color effects. Roy de Mestre came in with
a group of Dangars. Miss Macarthur On-
slow wore red roses on her navy tailor-made
and drank tea with the vice-res. Vivid little
Mrs. Gordon suggested smartly-tailored
quicksilver. Pianist Laurence Godfrey
Smith’s Avife dangled an amber necklace,
f aith Macarthur Onslow sported a cherry-
red hat with red and white chiffons. Ernest
Watt and his wife, she in slim-looking
black, were late-comers. Cynthia Hawkes,
brown suited and bereted, was the triggest
looking creature on the horizon. Lady Luke
of Pavenham and her blue-eyed, blue-clad
daughter, the Honorable Enid, were among
the lucky-enough to secure balloons. Mrs.
Elwyn Blomfield (Bowral) was very up-
standing in black tailorings and a small black
hat stabbed by a diamond bar, and Mrs.
W. Tomalin wore spring-like raiment in
tones of lime. The Harry Budges w T ere
among the invited Five Hundred, and there
were Osbornes and Bruntons, Cullens,
Friends, Westmacotts, Levys, Donkins and
Stephens. Just everybody you’ve ever heard
mentioned in the social litany Avas there,
plus the immemorial silver-mounted crowned
ram’s head in the smoking-room, the Vene-
tian-glass urn fired to magnificence by the
spotlight behind it. and the great acres of
paintings on the walls.
The Randwick Race Ball Avas the out-
standing success of the week. Over 2000
enthusiasts swept out to the Palais at Moore
Park; and that capacious rendezvous
could hardly hold the laughter and the talk-
ing within its walls. For everybody knew
everybody else, or so it seemed. The parties
were outsize and friendly; as many as 250
Avere tucked into the president’s little lot.
Out of compliment to their president, Mrs.
S. Munro, whose son Jimmy rode Loquacious
to victory in the Metropolitan, the committee
sported that good gee’s colors. Premier
Bavin joined the official party, presided over
by Mrs. Munro, in handsome black georg-
ette and lace jetted With rhinestones; a piece
of still-life that gave character to her outfit
Avas a flower horseshoe tied with the blue
and gold and black diamonds of Loquacious.
Eileen Tier and Elsie Carry, who had should-
ered, with Mrs. ,C. J. C. Ryan, the terrific
job of secretary, fluttered floral chiffons,
Avliile Mrs. Ryan was smart in white and
gold. The Sacred Heart Church at Rand-
wick will benefit by the takings.
The Rose Bay Golf Club made itself out-
of-the-ordinary smart last week. On the
night that it harbored the George Macarthur
Onslows’ dance for daughter Faith and her
friends, colorful and conventual tulips,
exotic orchids and the simplicity of lilac from ,
Camden Park decked the rooms. The hostess
Avore a frock of rose-du-barry satin, and .
daughter Faith’s sweeping and flounced chif-
fons were of mignonette green. But the
death of Mrs. Arthur Allen in the early
afternoon had a noticeable effect on the ]
attendance and the spirits of this race-Aveek
fixture. j
The young butterflies put an extra bit of
gilding on their pinions for the Boys’ Bri-
gade dance, and the Ambassadors was a !
whirl of good clothes on the best people. ;
The Brigade is a popular and old-established ;
welfare organisation, more or less under the :
wing of the Fairfaxes. Frocks for its dance ;
were worn fluttery and long and uneven, and i
were so often fashioned of flowered georg- ;
ette and chiffon as to be a monotony. The <
State Exes, came to the party, Lady de ]
Chair in mist-blue moire, long and swaying 1
and splashed with diamente, more diamente t
in her hair, and a pink rose at the waist.
Elaine wore Avliite taffetas, the deep hem (
of tulle Avhich surfed about her ankles set ,
with lines of brilliants. The Kelso Kings, J
she in her favorite black and white, Avere
personages of the affair, whose president was .
F. E. Bryant. They and a small but com- ‘
pact company of Fairfaxes made suitable ,
sounds and gestures of welcome on the arri- ,
val of the vice-regal party.
Green satin shimmering and dripping off 5
to one side Avas worn by fair Mrs. Pat Levy. :
Rosemary Osborne was another in green; her .
frock was a sweeping flurry of chiffons above
green shoes, and a long green chiffon hanky
that floated in her hand probably proved as
useful as pictorial. Dr. R. H. Bettington
brought his wife, who toned up ethereal grey
Locking with pink camellias. Pretty little
Ann Gordon, in guileless white satin and
pink roses; graceful Margaret Fairfax, in
green; and Isabel Rundle, in cobwebby grey,
made up an attractive trio. Elizabeth Knox’s
black laces and Mary Doberer’s black chif-
fons attracted a second glance; so did the
vellum lace frock that sheathed Noreen
Worrall’s eream-and-gold good looks. The
Justice Gordons, with Mrs. Ellison Rich, were
among the merrymakers, and the Howard
Bullocks brought a party. Faith Macarthur
Onslow, Helen Stephen and Lavender Stuart
(Melbourne) were other nice girls who
danced with great industry so that the small
boys of Surry Hills might have their reading-
rooms and gymnasium.
Two race-week fixtures that deserve a
mention were the Commemoration of Bene-
factors at the Uni. and the Conversazione
which followed. A feature of this academic
ceremonial was the unveiling of the portrait
of munificent Mr. Bosch. The second was
the ball that, as usual, marked the end of
race week at the Rose Bay Golf Club.
Imagine all the young things mentioned dur-
ing the race festivities changed from race
finery to chiffon fripperies of uneven hem-
line and peacock backs, deck the rooms with
tulips and roses, and you have a sufficient
picture of this flutter.
When Mrs. Arthur Allen died last week
Sydney lost another of its beautiful women.
As Ethel Lamb she was one of the belles of
the ’nineties,
and more re-
cen 11 y her
well - dressed
and well-car-
ried head was
a feature of
every big
T own Hall
concert. She
was a great
w orker for
charity, and
during the war
was an untir-
ing supporter
of the Red
Cross and the
Comforts Fund.
Of late years
social - welfare
m o v e m ents
have had her
earnest sup-
port ; closest
to her heart were the Mothereraft Society,
of which until a few months ago she was
president, and the Needlework Guild, of
which she was vice-president. She was a
popular member also of the Queen’s Club,
of which she was for a time president; and
in the ballroom of Merioola, her Woollahra
home, she had had the distinction of being
hostess of a private ball given in honor
of the Prince of Wales. Her husband,
Arthur Allen, and her son Denis, of Allen,
Allen and Helmsley, and her daughters, Mrs.
Ken Austin, Mrs. John Bavin and Margaret
Allen, are the nearest sorrowers. But the
Dangars and Lambs are also plunged into
mourning. Monte Luke made our picture
of Mrs. Allen last year.
Another old Sydney family was put into
mourning during the week by the death of
Mrs. John Harper, wife of a former • Chief
Railway Commissioner. Of late years a sick
husband has been her only care; but in
days gone by she busied herself with many
charities.
The friends of the lion and the tiger, tin'
antelope and the seal foregathered in David
Jones’s ballroom the other night to celebrate
the jubilee of the Royal Zoological Society.
There was almost as much variety in the
bill-of-fare as there is in the Zoo enclosures.
If you were a nature-lover you stayed up
in the auditorium and saw pictures of your
favorite snakes and things, while experts
like Alec Chisholm, T. C. Rougliley, J. R.
Kinghorn, Dr. Waterhouse and Price Coni-
grave chatted of their habits and social life.
If you swung an active foot you stepped
from the heights on to the dancing floor.
If you felt neither intellectual nor jazzy you
could play bridge or wander about gazing
at the painted wooden animals and birds
done by Audrey Russell. The committee
hopes that one outcome of the ball will be
the publication of a handbook on natural his-
tory for children.
Mrs. Norman Lowe, president of the ball
committee, glittered like a mermaid’s tail.
She had the appearance of being moulded
of rhinestones, and her head was swathed
in a closely-woven silver net. The Garlicks
and Admiral Evans’s lady, were among the
dancers. The Taronga Le Souefs lay down
with the lion and the lamb, so to speak;
vivid Mavbelle Markell swirled royal-blue
lace and chiffons; Alice Carruthers wore
snowy lace. The Otway Falkiners, the Law-
rence Ennis couple and General Gordon
Bennett and his lady were others of the
many who changed their spots with a rapid-
ity that would have made the leopard dizzy
with envy.
Kathleen Pye, of Darling Point, became
French by marriage last week when she linked
herself to Eugene Pierre Remond, of Paris.
Up the long aisle of St. Mary’s the slim
bride walked on brother John’s arm just as
the clock struck three. Her frock, artful
simplicity in soft white satin, flowed into a
shimmering wash of train, above which yards
of white tulle foamed and billowed. Eliza-
beth Cape and Helen Hughes walked after
the bride, their shoes gold and their frocks
cascades of primrose georgettes that dripped
to their high heels. Eugene Pierre is a very
handsome fellow, and later on. in the rather
French atmosphere of the Carthona drawing-
room, he looked quite a thrill standing beside
his bride to sustain congratulations from
nearly 150 family friends. But Mrs. Arthur
Allen’s death caused a thinning in the guests.
The Premier, who is father-in-law to one of
the Allen girls, and daughter Nancy were
absent. However, Bertie Kelly, France’s
Consul-General Nettement, Pat O’Shea (Bris-
bane) and John Lane Mullins gave an
almost ambassadorial air to the proceedings.
The wedding feast was spread in a marquee
on the side lawn, and from it were caught
wonderful glimpses of a grey harbor shot
with silver. An enormous orange and yel-
low umbrella sheltered the orchestra and
toned in with a great bed of marigolds near
by. In the rooms the flowers had been
arranged by artist brother John, and here low
bowls of flowers blazed with the insistence of
a Margaret Preston woodcut, and tall crystal
vases held gladioli and delphinium.
Fine feathers were flirted in of the
lowering afternoon. But Mrs. Warwick
Fairfax stuck to her grey Persian lamb coat,
under which she wore pastel-tinted raiment;
nor did Mrs. Leon Lyons lay aside her
equally gorgeous brunette Persian lamb. On
the other hand Mrs. A. E. Hughes wore the
transparencies of buttercup georgette, and
the Cay girls were in flowered chiffons.
Pretty Mrs. Oscar Paul emerged blond and
smiling from tailored black. The Hughe's.
Sheldon and Lane Mullins families were in
strong battalions. Mrs. Archie Bevan’s navy
and beige outfit was extremely smart. Dr.
Herbert Kendall’s wife kept rose-du-Barry
Locking w T arm with a mole coat; Ella
O’Shea, from Brisbane, aired a graceful outfit
iu the same coloring; and black y lace and
red roses were worn by the bride’s mother,
Mrs. Charles Pye.
Joan Osborne, whose London wedding to
Captain Macintyre, of the 16tli Lancers,
was postponed last week owing to the sud-
den illness of the bridegroom, is the tall,
fair daughter of Frank Osborne, and has
been living abroad with her mother for
the past 10 years. She is a mannequin in
a Bond-street shop where it is as hard to
get a job as it is to get on to the West
End stage. Her mother, who was handsome
Daisy Gollin, married Frank Osborne in
a Bellevue Hill garden, according to Jewish
rites, nearly 30 years ago.
Ruth Worrall, elder daughter of Dr. Ralph
Worrall, is among the newly-engaged. Her
young man is Frank Bragg, of Cootamundra.
Nine years ago a bullet fired by Mrs.
Dorothy Mort in a seemingly undramatic
drawing-room of a North Shore home killed
Dr. Tozer, a young medical man. The ver-
dict declared that the shot had been fired
during a period of insanity; and Mrs. Mort
was sent to Long Bay Gaol. For nine years
she has been an inmate, though she has not
worn prison garb, but has gone habited, so
report says, according to her affluent station.
This week, in view of favorable reports of
Mrs. Mort’s sanity, Cabinet is reviewing the
question of her immediate release. But there
is another on whom the grim tragedy still
levies toll in the way of shattered nerves.
She is the nurse who made the discovery,
first of the body and then of her wounded
employer.
Mrs. Aubrey Foa, of South Africa, who
was Kathleen Osborne, is paying Sydney a
visit, and is the centre of a little social
willy-willy. A race-week lunch party which
was jointly in her honor and that of Mrs.
W. S. Lucey, of America —a daughter of
the J. J. Rouses —was staged by Mrs. W. H.
Mackay at the P se Bay Golf Club.
The Grand Viziers of the Shears ordain
that woman’s hair is to be betwixt and
between. It is not to be long, neither is it
to be. short; it must be not longer than six
inches at the nape of the neck and not
shorter than three. Eton crops are among
the discards.
In addition to carrying off the Dagmar
Berne prize, an appointment at Prince
Alfred and a medical dgrec, Dr. Edna Baylis.
of Killara, has in the same week announced
her engagement to Dr. Gault, of Victoria.
Dr. Adelaide Gault, a sister of the ’groom-
to-be, is at present in Sydney.
OVERHEARD.
Mrs. Northsitaw ( giving a last word to the maid) :
“And now I’ll go. Don’t bother about 11 o’clock
tea—and if anybody calls tell them I’ve gone to
the Air Race.’’
Ruby : “Oh, you are a lucky lady! I do love
watchin’ them wonderful dogs.”


•- "
' '
■:
The brightest spot
fervour week-end outing
TOOTH'S
KB
Ostrues
LAG
: f i-'T
0
Z
i
m
mm
m
m
I
KJ
m
*
te'VHi
|M
■
m
m
i
K fj
• ■
S’
11111
#
i
■
4 in' 1
i
• m
%
f
E i/ i
t
it
j />
ggP
i
3
4
ft
ft if ft it
fev*-
m
&
A
K
K
BREWED
AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH & CO., LIMITED, KENT BREWERY, SYDNEY.


For 136 years
Rowland’s Macassar Oil has been a favorite
dressing for the hair. Its close resemblance
to the natural oil has caused it to be used
more and more as something better than a
hair dressing. It keeps the hair healthy, and
prevents the encroachment of greyness and
baldness.
!r:
m
s.
m
Of all Chemists,
Stores and Hair-
dressers. Red for
dark hair; golden
for fair or grey
Howlands
Macassar Oil
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.1.,
ENGLAND. c.t.p.65
» 1
9
Q
&
*>«
sfie£
mW®-
The Choicest
Australia
Produces
Plump palatable
and spotlessly clean.
Such are Swallow and
Ari e 1 l’s Raisins,
stemmed and seeded
ready for your cakes
and puddings. Ask
your grocer.
SWALLOW
AND
ARI ELLS
sNismixffaaaas
IRISH LINENS
o'j
Send for our
New FREE
CATALOGUE
No. F2O.
ROBINS ON £r (LEAVER
LIMITED. BELFAST.
Or from P.O. BOX No. 1072, PERTH. W.A.
PARADISE PLUMES
BY GILBERT MUNRO TURNBULL
by (DhoOKoTTCD^^^iF Q
CHAPTER XXIII.
Flight.
THERE was a deathly silence. A creep-
ing sense of sickness assailed Stephen
Blake. In another second he would
have cast aside all caution, all restraint. He
felt his brain reeling at the thought. And
Merton had been lolling against the door
jamb—for how long Blake did not know—
smiling derisively, completely master of the
situation.
Blake stood up awkwardly, his face
crimson, horribly embarrassed. He gave
Lesley one swift glance. Surprisedly, he
saw that she was entirely unmoved. Her
expression was, if anything, a little scornful.
Her eyes were fixed on her husband’s feet.
He was wearing tennis shoes.
“Well?” Merton murmured silkily. He
seemed highly amused.
“If Mrs. Merton will excuse us,” Blake
said hastily, “I should like to see you
alone, Merton.” He was conscious that
he was cutting a ridiculous figure, and the
knowledge humiliated him. “I shall not
take up much of your time,” he added
lamely.
“I’m quite sure you will not, Blake,”
Merton assured him. He spoke as though
he were enjoying a rare jest.
Blake bowed stiffly to Lesley. “Then,
with your permission”
“I’m flattered by the way in which you
both ignore me,” Lesley interrupted coldly.
“I am not sure that I am not the only
person to be considered, really.”
Merton tossed his cigarette on to the
table and turned to Lesley. “A tribute
to your cast-iron nerve, my dear,” he
gibed.
Lesley’s eyes met his steadfastly. It was
his that were averted.
Blake set his teeth, striving to maintain
his composure. An instinct warned him to
be on guard lest he should precipitate an
upheaval. He tried to persuade himself
that he had but to deliver his ultimatum
to Merton, and immediately take himself
off. This was manifestly the rational course
to pursue. The memory of the swift light
in Lesley’s eyes, the flame of emotion that
had shot through him, and Merton’s sneer-
ing intervention shamed him now to the
depths of his being. And Merton under-
stood quite well what was agitating his
mind. The man’s mocking smile, his care-
fully preserved light and careless pose, pro-
claimed his perfect comprehension and
enjoyment of Blake’s predicament.
Blake’s lips had gone dry. He had come
to Laubogi filled with such good resolutions,
such high purposes. He had meant to
straighten Merton up, bring home to him
the outrageousness of his conduct, save him
from possible gaol and certain disgrace,
and—all unknown to Lesley—render her his
last service. Instead he had made an im-
placable enemy of Merton, and he had
brought shame and distress to Lesley. The
thought destroyed the last shred of self-
respect.
He must do what he had set out to do,
and then take himself off. And he must
transfer to a division remote from Akupaka
just as soon as the exigencies of the service
permitted.
He was confusedly aware that Lesley
was looking at hirq beseechingly, but her
anxiety served only to stiffen his resolution
*to refuse her his confidence. He was out
to warn Merton, not to show him up before
his wife.
“I am tremendously sorry, Mrs. Merton,”
he declared doggedly. “I have nothing to
say except to your husband.”
Merton broke into a jeering laugh. He
had the self-complacent air of a man who
has been dealt a difficult hand, and is
playing it well.
“The Resident Magistrate is kind,” he
declared. “He simply hates to hurt my
feelings. Let me, therefore, disclose his
dreadful secret. Let me”
“I am not interested in your version,”
Lesley cut in coldly, “only in Mr. Blake’s.”
She turned fully upon Blake. “I am
ashamed to confess,” she continued simply,
“that my husband is habitually untruthful.”
Blake drew a sharp breath. What on
earth was the girl saying?
Merton’s air of easy assurance left him.
His face went suddenly livid. Perhaps it
was the whisky with which he had fortified
himself, perhaps desire to strike back, per-
haps sheer inability to hold his temper any
longer. He whirled upon his wife in a fury.
“Go to your room, you trull!” he
barked viciously.
Lesley sprang up from her chair, the blood
streamed to her face, her eyes flamed with
indignation.
“How dare No, Stephen! No, no!”
her voice changed in sudden terror.
It was too late. What happened was so
quick she sensed it rather than saw it. She
heard the sickening impact of Blake’s fist,
as, with twelve stone-odd behind it, it sent
Merton to the floor. She saw Blake stand-
ing over her husband’s prostrate form, his
face set, his grey eyes blazing.
“Stephen! Oh, Stephen!” she gasped
chokingly.
In an instant Blake’s expression changed.
He dropped his hands and stood back, shud-
dering. Contrite he turned to her.
“God!” he groaned. “What a ghastly
mess! Don’t, please, condemn me utterly.
It was so—so raw, so damnably raw!”
She lifted her eyes to his. Her lips moved,
but no sound came from them. The color
flamed into her cheeks again, then drained
away, and she turned and ffed, sobbing.
Merton raised himself on an elbow. He
was fingering his jaw tenderly. Blake
stooped and assisted him to his feet. For
a moment Merton stood shaking, then he
flopped into a chair.
“Where’s my wife?” he demanded in a
husky whisper.
“I don’t know,” Blake answered dully.
“She has gone.”
Merton mouthed a bitter oath. There
was a, long uncomfortable silence.
Blake felt stranded. For once he had
allowed his passions to master him; for
once he had acted on blind impulse. There
was no solace in the reflection that Merton
had received promptly only what he had
asked for. Blake was too honest to conceal
from himself the fact that he was abso-
lutely in the wrong. And he had not helped
Lesley. Rather he had injured her, be-
smirched her; he had delivered her bound
hand and foot to the muddy-minded ruffian
who now sat before him gazing dazedly at
nothing.
Merton’s giddiness was clearing from his
head. His mind was beginning to function.
“Proud of yourself, eh?” he snarled. “A
clean knock-out—and me off my guard.
You swine!”
“I have no regrets. None whatever.”
“If you think this day’s work will get
you anywhere, you’re wrong, you slimy
hypocrite! I’ll get you for this! By God!
Get out of my house!”
“When I am ready, Merton. I have some-
thing to”
“Out of my house, you crawling sneak!”
“Hold your tongue!” snapped Blake.
“You’ll forget this rotten business, Merton,
as I shall forget it—or you’ll be a fool.”
Merton laughed, shortly and mockingly.
“Getting the wind up, eh?” he gibed. “Scared
of what you’ve let yourself in for? That
it? You’ve missed the ’bus, you dog,
missed it by a mile!”
“Nobody can regret more than I the
thing that has just happened,” Blake re-
joined coldly. “Forget it. Let us get down
to business.”
He drew his chair nearer, and sat down
confronting Merton.
“You understand, of course, why I am
here”
Merton uttered a thin, teetering laugh.
“I think so,” he sneered. “I saw quite
enough to”
“If I carried out my duty”
“You won’t!”
“I would formally charge you with”
“You’re not game!”
Blake exploded in exasperation. “Will
you listen to me, man?”
Merton grinned evilly. “If you have any
idea that you can drag my wife into this
business with me, there’s nothing doing.”
Silence fell. Blake flinched, and his face
seemed to lose all expression. Good God!
What had he come to? It was as though
his eyes had been suddenly opened, as if
he saw for the first time the yawning pit
that had opened at Lesley’s feet. She was
so sweet, so pure, so entirely innocent of
all offence, and he had given this ruffian,
this husband of hers, the chance to insult
her so grossly.
Mechanically, Blake reached for his
helmet. There was nothing to say. No-
thing to do save go. Merton watched him
and grinned.
Suddenly, white-hot anger flamed within
Blake, sweeping away all prudence, all
reserve. Llis hands fastened on Merton’s
shoulders, jerking his head upwards.
“Stand up, you dog!” he blazed. “Get
on your feet! I’m going to give you the
thrashing of your life!”
He heard a faint movement behind him.
Involuntarily he turned his head, and Mer-
ton’s fist thudded on his ear, rocking him
backwards.
Blake recovered his balance instantly, and
straightened, covering.
“Please! Oh, please!” Lesley’s voice
sounded strangely remote.
Both men fell back, Blake now cool,
completely master of himself, Merton
quivering with rage.
“A foul blow, Merton,” Blake rasped, his
voice cold with contempt. “And badly
judged. Next time”
He caught himself up as he felt
hand upon his arm. Her eyes glistened
with tears and her face wore an expression
of such trouble and dismay that he dropped
his hands and retreated, confused, ashamed.
He groped for his helmet, bowed stiffly to
Lesley, and, utterly ignoring her husband,
walked out of the house.
An evil smile curved Merton’s lips. He
crossed into the living-room and poured
himself a whisky and soda. Thick and
ugly, his voice came to the girl standing
motionless on the verandah.
“Congratulate you, my dear. Wonderful
performance! Splendid! Magnificent!”
There was no answer. The siphon hissed
again.
“I shall never forget it—never. Blake the
incorruptible, the inflexibly just and upright
judge, brought to his knees, bedevilled and
bemused, by my sweetly innocent little
wife! Priceless, my dear, priceless!”
There was no sound, save the “pop-pop”
of an exhaust becoming fainter and fainter
each moment. The girl stood rooted, her
eyes burning, her hands clenched.
“You wanton! Damn you, I know you
weren’t acting. I know.”
To Lesley Merton that day was an agony
long drawn out.
Once her husband came to her, and she
bowed her head under the stream of bitter
invective he poured out upon her. Once,
an hour later, he grovelled at her feet in
drunken self-abasement, searching for her
hand, weeping maudlin tears, mouthing in-
coherencies. She shrank affrightedly from
his drunken endearments. And when, curs-
ing or weeping, he returned to his cups, she
remained in her seat, straight and still, her
hands laced tightly together, her face white
as death. Totally crushed, sunk in bitter
misery, she tvas aware of a timid touch
upon her arm, and of a coaxing voice coming
as from a great distance.
“Sinabada! Kaikai [food], Sinabada!”
Her dry lips formed the syllables of the
cookboy’s name, but they made no sound.
“Sinabada!” Gaduweli shook her gently.
His voice was half-fearful, half-stern. “This
fashion no good, Sinabada. S’pose you no
havem kaikai, you big-fella sick.”
His insistent words roused her from her
torpor. She turned her head wonderingly
towards him.
“More better you havem kaikai,” Gadu-
weli enjoined her again. “Taubada no
stop. He bin go ’long Sam’s place.” Then,
in a burst of confidence, “Gaduweli friend
b’long you, Sinabada.”
Gaduweli dragged a cane table to her
side, darted to the dining-room, and re-
turned carrying a tray.
The boy’s solicitude touched Lesley. She
had no desire for food, but to please him
she tried to eat. He brought tea, and her
mind began slowly to clear.
She told herself dispassionately she had
come to the end. She had clung with the
desperation of despair to the last pitiful
remnants of her faith. Now she was utterly
exhausted; had no longer any wish even
to resurrect her dream. Like a vain thing
it had crumbled before her eyes, and she
stood broken amid the ruins; not em-
bittered, not inflamed with anger nor over-
come by grief—just disillusioned, disen-
chanted, beaten.
Like a little child she had taken hold of
her husband’s hand, and he had led her into
a new world. And her guide had failed
her, mocked her, taunted her, and left her
tottering on the edge of a hideous abyss.
Gaduweli bustled in and began to remove
the dishes. She instructed him to have the
launch fuelled and made ready for a
journey. He blinked at her and repeated
her words after her in evident bewilderment.
Then comprehension came, and, staring at
her curiously, he departed on his • errand,
obviously unwilling. Presently he returned,
coughing nervously.
“Bymeby taubada he very wild, please.
More better”
“The launch, Gaduweli,” she reiterated.
“I want to go ’long Gabubu.”
She had no fear of her husband’s anger,
only a defiant contempt. A wanton, he
had called her! A trull! Her cheeks
burned. He had raked in the gutter for
epithets foul enough to hurl at her, this
man who had swayed her, thrilled her,
wooed her with impassioned words. They
were behind her now, the taunts, the sneers,
the curses; behind her the searing passion,
the drunken kisses, the bacchic caresses
which to him meant love. Somewhere ahead
sanctuary awaited her; a blessed haven
where she could think—alone, where she
could wrestle with her problem, plan out
her life anew. One thing was burned into
her consciousness. She would leave Lau-
bogi to-day.
* * * *
When, at sundown, Merton returned to
Laubogi and the houseboys told him that
the sinabada had gone, he listened in
stupid wonder. He lurched drunkenly to
the door of her bedroom, wrenched it open.
Then, a look of surprise on his face, he
returned to the houseboys.
(Continued on page 51.)


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FTRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
A
Address Manager—
HOWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know —from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
<r
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
Startling Innovations at
«l ST
7»(
■ssr-'
Dancing till l a.m.
EVENING DRESS OPTIONAL.
A La Carte Service.
Minimum Charge 7/6.
Afternoon and Evening
Mr. Ernest C. Rolls’s New York
Cabaret Revue.
Popular Cabaret Teas
Monday to Friday ..... 2/6
Saturday • */’
’Phone M 4131 for your reservation.
Melbourne
Chatter
Bucklery's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?]
Bucklery [?] Nunn[?]
R[?]she [?] M[?]
The women at Caulfield on Saturday evi-
dently felt election-day was no time for
levity, for many wore sombre winter apparel.
The ensemble mode was in favor, with fur-
collared coats and even some fur wraps. In
the crowd of patrons some straw millinery
flaunted - itself light-heartedly, but there was
a great complement of felts —blues and reds
leading the field. It was a lovely day, soft
and sunny, so most of us soon forgot that
the Commonwealth’s fate was trembling
in the balance. The course was a
picture in which purple and yellow pansies
formed pools of gay color framed in green
sward, and primulas and Iceland poppies
made a gallant show. Even around the big
lakes on the flat there were patches of gay
flowers, and orange-stalls helped to brighten
the scene. An innovation was the vending of
ice-creams by boys in uniforms of two shades
of green, instantly dubbed the grasshoppers.
They hopped right smartly, too. Judging
by the number of black-and-white toilettes
on parade it seems safe to predict that
the magpie combination will have a good
run this summer, notwithstanding the lure
of gaily-flowered materials. Mayoress Lux-
ton wore a warm black coat with a minx
collar and a felt hat. Mrs. Buxton, re-
joicing in the double victory of High Syce
and Highland, sported an ensemble of ivory
face-clofh, topped with a white crinoline
stra what. Mrs. H. G. Macßoberts looked
charming in a black velvet coat with a dash
of ermine. Mrs. Stuart Brunton was there
with her daughter Gladys, the latter clad
in a three-piece suit in the new amber tone.
Mrs. W. M. Robins’s ensemble was in figured
crepe de Chine and navy repp. Dr. and
Mrs. Pender, Dr. and Mrs. Murray Morton,
the D. J. Hobans and the Poulteney Meins
were on the lawn.
Mrs. Barry Thomson’s votes as Quedn of
the Movies should positively bounce up this
week, as the proceeds of the Oriental night
at the Windsor on Saturday will add thou-
sands. The committees of the six candidates
are putting up a vigorous fight to help raise
the £lOO,OOO required by the Women’s Hos-
pital for new buildings. Various theatrical
folk, including the pink pierrot ballet of
“Whoopee,” provided the programme on
Saturday, and there was dancing for all and
an excellent supper. The combined blandish-
ments of Frederic Bentley and W. Mitchell
secured £l6 for a bottle of rare wine at
auction, and a box of chocolates brought
11 guineas. Mrs. Thomson’s gown, of irregu-
lar hem length, was of pale green georgette
splashed with silver, and she carried a long,
narrow bouquet of crimson roses and lilies
of the valley presented by her committee.
The Australian Literary Society gathered
round a cake one evening last week to cele-
brate _ a thirtieth birthday. It was an
occasion for reminiscences. C. R. Long,
one of the foundation members, traced the
history of. the group from 1899, when the
meeting-place was the music-room oLW. R.
Furlong, choir-master of St. Patrick’s
Cathedral, in the Royal Arcade. There was
a period when the society boasted a monthly
magazine called the Corbobobee, but its run
was- short. A new start was made recently
with a little magazine entitled Verse,
edited by musician Louis Lavater. Speakers
at the birthday party included Dr. T. B.
Mclnerney, Knight John Quick, Mr. Elsum,
an original member, and Rose Browne,
daughter of Rolf Boldrewood. Miss C.
Malmgren and Jessie Wilson recited Aus-
tralian verse, and over the coffee and cake
the gold medal of the society for the best
Australian novel published during the year
was handed to Helen Boyd, deputising for
her brother Martin, whose pen-name is Mar-
tim Mills. He wrote “The Montforts.”
The golden jubilee of the Ladies’ Needle-
work Association, of which Mrs. E. O. Mac-
Devitt has been manager for over a quarter
of a century, was celebrated with a sale of
members’ work at Menzies’, which developed
into a regular fair, many supporters assist-
ing with sales and providing stocks for
flower-, sweet- and cake-stalls. The Miller
lady, who has been a patron of the asso-
ciation for many moons, made an opening
speech. This association, of which Mrs. John
Fisken is president, provides numerous
women with a livelihood by finding a market
for their wares. Pochettes to carry bridge
requirements, tapestry fire-screens, mono-
grammed linen and embroidered undies were
on view, and also examples of an art well
known to our grandmothers, the working of
dainty little pictures in silk. Bits of old-
fashioned gardens set in gilded frames were
favorite studies in this genre.
Expenses should have been nil for the
joyous afternoon frivol at Buckley and
Nunn’s Elizabethan rendezvous which added
to the Women’s Hospital building fund. The
firm lent the room and footed the bill for
the four o’clock tea, and the J.C.W.
management and the Uni. Con. provided the
artists who entertained the full house —
Madame McArden, pianist Henry Penn and
John Ralston. Frederick Bentley took the
rede of auctioneer and did good business.
Mrs. J. J. Brenan and Mrs. James Alston
organised the effort, and Mayoress Luxton
was one of those who lent a hand in con-
ducting side-line sales.
Mother M. Ethelreda, .of the Loreto Con-
vent, Ballarat, who came to Australia in
1887, reached her half-century as a nun this
month, and was prevailed upon to let
present and past students and her innumer-
able friends offer their congratulations.' She
received from Bishop Foley a crown o.f
golden leaves and an ebony staff, and later
welcomed visitors and former pupils. A
hundred travelled from afar by train or
motor-car to pay her tribute. Luncheon was
served at the convent in the refectory. To-
day’s pupils afterwards gave a short concert,
followed by afternoon-tea. A floral pageant
was a setting for the presentation to the
honored nun of a cheque hidden in a harp
of flowers from the old girls, a similar offer-
ing having been already made by the present
pupils.
Mary's Mount, the site of the convent,
possesses a wonderfully beautiful chapel, to
which there’s a story attached. Over 25 years
ago there visited Australia with a governess
and maid a beautiful German girl, the
Countess Elizabeth Metternich. In Ballarat
something drew her towards Mary’s Mount,
and, calling on the then Mother Superior,
she asked to be taken as a pupil. She did
not divulge ,her rank, but it was soon dis-
covered. Returning to Germany, she died
shortly afterwards, leaving a large legacy
to Mary’s Mount, and so the chapel came
into being.
Colonel E. F. Harrison’s wife is following
in the footsteps of her father, the late W.
J, T. Clarke, and taking an interest in C.
of E. charities and missions. Last week
there was an afternoon-tea and chatting at
her Toorak mansion, Woodbury, when ways
and means of assistance were discussed.
Padre Law had the chair and Canon Snod-
grass sketched the history of the church’s
institutions since the time of Bishop Moor-
house.
The clear profile and steady gaze pictured
here belong to Martin a’Beckett Boyd, who
has carved
himself a place
among Austra-
lian authors
under the pen-
name of Mar-
tin Mills. His
latest book
“The Mont-
forts,” earned
him the gold
medal of the
Austral ian
Literature So-
ciety for 1928.
Mr. Boyd, who
is a brother of
art-potter Mer-
ric Boyd and
of the late
Penleigh Boyd,
painter, has
been living in
England for
the last eight
years. He began his literary work two
years after he returned from the war, bring-
ing out in Victoria a book of verse entitled
“Retrospect.” Then followed, in Britain,
his novels “The Love Gods” and “Brangane.”
A fourth hook will make its appearance very
shortly. The annual gold-medal award of
the A.L.S., it may be mentioned, is an idea
of Colonel Crouch, who presented £lOO to
the society for the purpose.
The annual dinner of the Old Collegians’
Association of the P.L.C. drew about 140
members around the black tables of the
fashionable Wattle tearooms. Orange table-
cloths, brass bowls overflowing with Iceland
poppies, and a soft glow of golden-shaded
lights furpished an agreeable setting for
feminine finery. This year there was no
theatre party afterwards; the diners loitered
over the coffee to listen to an orchestral trio
and a vocal quartette. Pianist Katie Liddle,
violinist Violet Wooleock and ’cellist Miss E.
Lester provided the instrumental fare. Mrs.
I. H. Moss, president of the, 0.C.A., wearing
a sparkling black robe, received a posy trail-
ing the dark blue-and-gold ribbons of the
school, and proposed the toasts of the King
and the College.
The P.L.C., which had a golden jubilee in
’25. can count many eminent Australians
among its former students, beginning with
Melba. It has given the House of Commons
its first Australian woman member, Dr.
Marion Phillips, and Mrs. Henry H. Rich-
ardson, whose novel “Ultima Thule” thrilled
the critics a year or so ago, was also an old
girl. Among the guests at this year’s re-
union was Mrs. W. Gray, wife of the head;
also Josephine Paterson, who taught at the
college for many years. Anne Fortune,
the hon. secretary of the Old Collegians’
club, who engineers this annual getting-
togetlier, was there in a cerise chiffon frock;
and Mrs. A. L. Abbott, the hon. sec. of the
0.C.A., came in a velvet gown embossed in
a floral design. The president, Miss E.
Mollison, was present with Mrs. T. Purves,
Mrs. Mirams and Lily Ivellett. Mrs. Vance
Palmer accompanied Mrs. Jack McLaren, a
fellow-writer, just back after five years’ resi-
dence in London, where her author-husband
is now established securely. Others there were
Flora Mackay, Dr. Bessje Denney, Florence
Langford and Dr. Alison Ingram.
The Women’s Art Club opened its exhi-
bition at the Athenaeum Gallery last week.
Dr. Samuel A. Ewing, of Collin s-street,
lannclied the
show, which
included in
its scope
sculpture and
examples of
applied art in
china, ma r-
que t r y and
pottery. Mari-
etta here pre-
sents the presi-
dent of the
club, Mrs.
Fullwood Wat-
son, of Kew,
w li o c a m e
from England
at an earl y
age and was a
student of our
National Gal-
lery. S h e
comes of an
artistic family,
her late father being a brilliant worker in
metals. Painter A. H. Fullwood is a con-
nection of the lady, who is a member of
the Victorian Artists’ Society.
The Victoria League had a bridge party
at headquarters last week to raise funds
for philanthropy and etceteras. Hon. secs.
Pat Lempriere and Rita Watson.were able
to make an early announcement that all
tables were reserved, and' the vending of
sweets and flowers, with surprise packets
put up by Mrs. George Langridge and the
Best lady,, swelled the proceeds. The
Stawell lady and her daughter Elizabeth,
Mrs. Rupert Greene, Mrs. Stanley Addison
and Mrs. Henry Maudsley gave assistance.
In lending their Toorak home for gather-
ings of the British Music Society, the Tom
Smiths, through their daughter Mrs. Nor-
man Gadsden, are helping to fill the gap
left by the departure of the Jimmy Dyers,
who made Kinnoull, Heyington, a sort of
unofficial headquarters of the society a couple
of years ago. Mrs. Jimmy still retains an
alert interest in the branch she founded here.
Though Mrs. Gadsden sails for England
on the 22nd, Mrs. Smith will continue to
play hostess to the members. On Thursday
night the programme included old English
music written for viols and spinet. Folk-
songs with and without accompaniment were
presented by Marjorie Hatchard, violinist
Marjorie Prockter played sonatas by Henry
Eccles, and John Collet and pianist Maisie
Thomson gave pianoforte versions of spinet
compositions. Mrs. Gadsden added some
modern British songs by way of contrast.
Herbert Kinsey, one of the examiners for the
R.A.M. and Associated Board, was there,
accompanied by his wife, who has a repu-
tation overseas as a pianist. Miss Gilman
Jones, the Thorold Harpers, Mrs. James
Angus (just off the sick list after a three
months’ illness), Rita Hope and Doris Power
were among the listeners.
The day does not seem far distant when
there will be lady Rotarians, for on Thurs-
day night the sex was invited to the Berke-
ley for the first mixed dinner given by the
club. The president, Dr. Leonard Mitchell,
with his wife, whose gown was of pale-gold
hue, received the guests, abetted by the dis-
trict governor of Rotary. A. C. C. Holtz, and
Mrs. Holtz, the last-named in black and
grey. After coffee a film of the doings at
the recent Rotary conference at Tokio showed
those who were unable to visit the Orient
what a splendid time they missed.
Glorious sunshine and a lingering tang of
winter in the air made the garden of Teringa,
Toorak, the residence of Mrs. Hume Turn-
bull, an ideal place for a social mixing on
Friday. The hostess’s black gown, patterned
in green and topped by a black shady hat,
had a background of flowers of all hues of
the spring, and a string-band mingled its
strains with feminine chatter and the tinkle
of teacups. Among the guests were Mrs.
Turnbull’s mother, Mrs. A. Yuille, Mrs. Phil-
lip Hudson and Mrs. G. A. Chadwick.
Ella Kay, who had an altar date at Holy
Trinity, Kew, with Captain R. C. Bread-
more on Saturday evening, was one of the
mQst popular students of her term at Ruyton.
Her greatest friend, Helen Mcßae, and her
cousin Betty Yencken were chosen to walk
behind the golden train of the Titian-haired
bride, and Sirs. George Kay afterwards re-
freshed the guests at her home, D’Estaville,
Kew. Captain and Mrs. Breadmore will
make their nest in Delhi.
At Grammar School Chapel on Thursday
night Edith Marjorie Ralph and Arthur
Buick Ivaines signed the marriage register.
The dainty bride was arrayed in ivory lace
and tulle, witli a veil of Honiton. Her sheaf
of pink carnations lent a touch of color.
Kathleen Ralph and Dr. Gwen Kaines
’maided in floral chiffon frocks and drooping
straw millinery. They carried posies of pink
roses. Mrs. H. J. Ralph extended a welcome
hand to many guests at her home, Yantara,
Toorak, in celebration of her elder daughter s
nuptials.
Swimming and athletic circles were in-
terested in the uniting one evening last week
of Lola, elder daughter of Mrs. J. R. Scott,
of South Melbourne, who has gleaned many
honors as a swimmer, and Thomas Henry
Morris, also very fast in the water, who
represented Australia in the Olympic Games
as a wrestler. A matron of honor, two
’maids and two small train-bearers formed
a rainbow of color as a setting for the white
satin and tulle of the bride. At No. 9
afterwards the wedding-cake featured in its
decorations a swimming-bath scene.
The building of the new memorial chapel
at Xavier College, Kew, has reached a_ stage
Avhen its architectural beauty is winning
admiration. The elevation of the site and
the Sydney freestone which forms the outer
shell make the temple stand out magnifi-
cently. Old boys and friends of the col.
have contributed or promised £lB,OOO, and
another £20,000 is required to carry out the
design. With a couple of thousand old boys,
some of them very well endowed, to tap, the
task isn’t stupendous. A committee of lay-
men has been established, with Jack
O’Shaughnessy as executive officer, to raise
the ' coin.
The magpie-room is the latest craze, the
black and white enlivened by green cushions,
with door-panels and handles to match.
Glass furnishings add to the effect and are
much in demand for the modern room. Chairs
with plate-glass arms and backs, held up
with metal tubes, give one the feeling of
being seated in mid-air. Tables with glass
legs and tops with floral ornamentations go
en suite. When hubby decides to wreck
the happy home he can have a really satis-
fying time.
The first herald of the Cup-time social
flutter is the issue of gilded cards that are
passports to a garden party at State Govern-
ment House on November 6.
The late scratching of the imported artist
Stephanie Deste gave an Australian lassie,
Marjorie Maxwell, a chance to show what
she could do with the part of Wanda in
“Rose Marie” on Saturday night, and she
was a very shapely and charming Indiau
maid. Marie Bremner, the new Rose Marie,
was handed stacks of flowers, and Frederic
Bentley received, among other trifles, a life-
like toy Persian cat. There were a good
many empty seats, the election results being
for many a potent counter-attraction. In
the r.s. were Mrs. A. Woolcott and her
daughter Francie and son Stuart, Madame
£roef, Mr. and Mrs. E. A. Bates (who
had the Geoffrey Symes’ box), the Charles
Taits and Dr. and Mrs. Bordeaux.
A girl lately returned from gay Paree
attracted attention at her first social outing
after her home-coming by wearing blood-
red finger-nails with a white toilette. The
nails, which were long and pointed, were
painted to match her necklace. Colored
claws are Continental fashion’s latest con-
ceit. White is still considered the smartest
evening wear for summer, being such an
effective foil for sunbaked arms and back.
Mrs. Norman Menzies, accompanied by her
son Archie, arrived by the Orvieto on their
usual summer visit to Australia. Since the
one-time comic-opera star became a widow
she has lived in London, and this is her
seventeenth crossing. The visitors have taken
a flat at Lister House.
After residing in the Apple Isle for some
time, Roy Bridges and his sister Hilda have
unpacked their belongings in a house at Dar-
ling, beyond Heyington. Bridges is among
the most successful of Australian-born novel-
ists, and Hilda is kept busy with serials
and boys’ stories.
The dozen superb drawings which Norman
Lindsay did to illustrate “The Quarter-
master” have been reproduced in two-tone
ink on art paper, and are now on sale at 1h
Bulletin’s chief office, Sydney, and at all
branch offices. The complete set of one
dozen drawings costs only -s., and to pu
country subscribers on the same tooting as
those of the cities, the set will be sent post-
free from the head office to any address in
Australasia.


V
\
1
V
m
i
I
. iii i
■
■
■
m
U
tone
as
osiery


Refrigeration
Without Ice
CITY COMFORTS IN THE COUNTRY
“THE ECONOMY REFRIGERATOR”
“It saves its cost in food not lost.”
Packed and delivered rail or boat, Sydney.
Everything complete; Price, £37.
Safe, sure and automatic refrigeration
by Primus Stove.
No working parts to lose.
Costs ljd. per day to run.
You will marvel at the clever idea of
Refrigeration by means of heat instead
of Ice. Where Ice is unprocurable
it is worth its weight in gold.
To operate: —
Once a day—take the Freezing Unit
out of the Ice Chest and stand it on
the Primus Stove, and go about your
usual duties. In a short time the
whistle will blow, indicating that tne
temperature is right for the Freezer
to be put back in the Ice Chest.
It is simplicity itself. There is nothing
to get out of order, and it will last a
lifetime.
The Ice Chest Cabinet is 24in. long,
18in. wide and 19in. deep, with
porcelain-enamel interior; comprises
Freezing Unit, Ice Tray, two Shelves
and Primus Stove.
Amusements.
SYDNEY'S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: HOLD
EVERYTHING.
CRITERION: LOMBARDI, LTD.
OICKARDS’ TIV o l! THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
ROSE MARIE.
ROYAL:
JOURNEY’S END.
ING ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
WHOOPEE.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
** MELBOURNE.
MORTON DOWNEY as
MOTHER’S BOY
(All Talking, Singing, Dancing).
ALSO
LOUIS WOLHEIM in
SQUARE SHOULDERS
(Talking and Sound).
IRTH BROS.’ CIRCUS.
Greatest Show on Earth.
GRAND JUBILEE YEAR.
OPENING IN OLYMPIA, MELBOURNE, ON
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 18,
For a Season of Four Weeks only.
ALL NEW ATTRACTIONS.
Including the Greatest Pure White Polar and Brown
Bear Act in the World, at a cost of £5OOO.
Positively seen at Every Performance.
Prices: 2/-, 3/-, 4/-; Chairs, 6/-, plus tax.
Reserved Chairs, 8/-, plus tax.
Plan at Glen’s.
Matinees: SATURDAY, WEDNESDAY and all
HOLIDAYS.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who wiil
quote you price for the original.
Write for pamphlet concerning “ECONOMY REFRIGERATOR, which
“Keeps food nice without the Ice.
Manufacturers’ Representatives:
F. R. STRANGE, LIMITED,
3 Hamilton Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8W6129.
Amusements.
THEATRE, NEWTOWN.
ALLAN WILKIE,
with
MISS HUNTER-WATTS
and Company of 30 Artists,
in an
ENTIRELY NEW REPERTOIRE
of
18th CENTURY COMEDIES.
Commencing
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 19
(at the Matinee),
with
Sheridan’s Brilliant Masterpiece,
THE SCHOOL FOR SCANDAL.
The Evening Performance on Saturday, October 19,
under the patronage and in the presence of
Lady de Chair.
POPULAR PRICES. POPULAR PRICES.
Box Plan open at Paling’s and Majestic Theatre.
’Phone L 1663 for bookings.
Victoria Racing Club
Flemington.
CUP WEEK. .
DERBY DAY 2nd NOVEMBER
CUP DAY sth NOVEMBER
OAKS DAY 7th NOVEMBER
STEEPLECHASE DAY 9th NOVEMBER
STAKES WILL AMOUNT TO £43,000.
£lO,OOO added to Melbourne Cup and
Gold Cup of 200 sovs.
£5OOO added to the Derby.
ARTHUR Y. KEWNEY, Secretary.
Position Vacant.
CHEEP-STATION overseer wanted, South-
ern Queensland. Protestant, single.
10,000 sheep. Commencement salary £4.
Good horseman essential. State age, experi-
ence, letter 0n1y.—34774, C/o Gore Co.,
Goondiwindi.
Position Wanted.
January. Companion-
\Y7ANTED, position,
™ help; able ride,
laundry. Country preferred.
MISS FOSTER,
P. 0., Artarmon, N.S.W.
ONARCH
IVXqai'S
| CRAIGfi,AlTKEN
Wholesale Distributors
. _ Sydney NSW
ilium?
THE "WOMAN’S MIRROR”
contains everything that women
should know—from kitchen to
drawing-room, from cradle to
old age. It is the most remark-
able threepenny - worth ever
printed.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
3d.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland's
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
, Brisbane.
The Governor and Lady Goodwin gave a
dinner-party at Government House to Lord
and Lady Luke. Among the guests were
Dr. and Mrs. P. J. Iverwin, the E. T. Bells,
J. E. Walkers, E. Costellos, H. A. Long-
mans, E. B. Swaynes, J. D. Annands, Col-
onel and Mrs. N. A. H. Campbell and Mr.
and Mrs. G. P. Barnes.
The Nursery Rhymes Fete for the Crbche
and Kindergarten was held under blue skies in
Government House grounds, Sir John and
Lady Goodwin being present. Hal L’Estrange
gave Lady Goodwin a posy of delphiniums,
lilies of the valley and roses, from Mrs. Mun-
ro’s Mary-Mary-Quite-Contrary stall, where
there were hollyhocks all in a row, silver bells
and pretty girls. Lady Goodwin was in blue
crepe de Chine, with a Baku hat to tone. The
Governor lauded Miss Bedford for her
energy on behalf of the kiddies. Mrs. Her-
ring, in crimson, was the Queen of Hearts,
in a heart-shaped stall with maidens frocked
as court cards. Alice Hawthorn, Nan North
and Mrs. J. Boyd were dressed as the Three
Bears. They conducted a donkey got up as
Goldilocks, attached to an ice-cream cart.
Lucy Locket and the Priest All Shaven and
Shorn had the art stall, where lightning
sketches were made, Enid Dickson, frocked
as a French artist, assisting. Mrs. Hanni-
bal King, in a mysterious wood of gum-
trees, where black cats and goblins prowled,
was one of the witches, who told your fate
for you. Barbara Sisley gave an entertain-
ment, “The Pied Piper of Hamelin,” and
kiddies from Sommerville House danced on
the lawn. In the evening Mrs. P. J. Symcs
acted in “Five Birds in a Cage” with the
help of Naera Sampson and others. The
Man All Tattered and Torn provided the
needs of bachelors. A set of woollen gar-
ments made by Sir John Goodwin’s invalid
sister and a woollen shawl crocheted by
the butler at Government House were much
admired.
Captain J. M. Snow and his wife cele-
brated their golden wedding last week at
Burwah, Auchenflcwer. He was for many
years with the Howard Smith Co. Between
60 and 70 guests went to the party, and
gifts and flowers came by the drayload.
Emily Bulcock wrote an ode for the occasion.
The East Brisbane home of Mrs. James
Pike was lent for a fete 10 help the T.B.
soldiers. A musical and elocutionary pro-
gramme was contributed to by Mrs. Smales,
Muriel McHugh, Miss McLaren, Miss Hooper
and Herbert Coulter. Jean Aitken and Nancy
Pike danced. Sweets and flowers were sold
and afternoon-tea was provided.
Katharine Prichard, wdio wrote “Coonar-
doo,” passed through aboard the Nieuw Zee-
land on her way home to Perth. She has been
in North Australia and up as far as Singa-
pore.
Allan Lilburn, Terrick Terrick statiou,
Blackall, took
Trixie, daugh-
ter of the T.
A. Richard-
sons, Blackall,
for better an’
worse in All
Saints’, Bris-
bane. Th e
bride, pictured
here, wore a
beaded ivory
satin gown, a
tulle veil and
circlet of
orange blooms,
and carried a
sheaf of lilies.
Joan C-oomber
’maided in
maize silk
voile with a
silver tulle
head-dress and
carried a bou-
quet of wistaria and daffodils.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Warm weather encouraged light frocks on
the race days at Morphettville. The vice-
regals were opening a show at the Burra, but
otherwise society was well represented. Mrs.
S. J. Jacobs, acting as hostess for chairman
Whitmore Carr, wore' a black and beige
frock and a black hat. Figured crepe de
Chine was popular with the women, worn
with little jackets that flapped in the breeze.
Dame Janet Campbell has been in our
midst, and has been f£ted by the medicoes
and the N.C.W. She was the guest of
Mayoress Bonython in her reception-room
at the Town Hall at a social gathering. A
profusion of pink sweet-peas, roses and pink
Japanese magnolia made an effective back-
ground for' Mrs. Bonython’s knife-pleated
beige ensemble and beige Bankok hat, and
Dame Campbell’s fawn-figured crgpe de Chine,
fawn coat and light-brown hat. Jean Sin-
clair sang.
On the same afternoon Mayoress Suther-
land, of Glenelg, entertained Lady IJore-
Ruthven and a number of others at the
local Town Hall. There was music. Her
Ex. wore a black and white figured-satin
frock, black marocain coat and black hat.
She was presented with a posy of pink
roses by the daughter of the Mayoress.
At St. Matthew’s, Marryatville, Canon
Dempster united William Louis von Doussa
and Lauris, younger daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
C. W. Reid, of Beltana station and Ken-
sington Gardens. The bride wore an origi-
nal frock of green satin veiled in white
chiffon, and carried arum lilies. Her brides-
maids, Beatrice Markwell and Margaret von
Doussa, wore green chiffon frocks, a mass
of frills and green lace straw hats tied with
velvet strings. There was a reception after-
wards at the residence of the bride’s sister,
Mrs. Lindsay Collins, Leabrook.'
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The most brilliant dance seen in Perth
for years was the Governor’s Ball. Lights
festooned the lovely gardens, where the
C.T.A. Amateur Orchestra- thrummed, and
victuals and drink were served in a marquee
erected on the lawns. The ballroom just
scintillated, and Lord Stonehaven sported
full Court regalia. Governor Campion was
uniformed to the full, and his lady danced
in sapphire-embossed georgette touched with
gold Every conceivable shade of sweet-pea
adorned the supper-room, where small tables
replaced the more generally used long ones.
Chief Justice McMillan’s lady , wore a gown of
black and gold lace, the James lady was in
black lace with touches of Egyptian blue, and
Lady Nathan’s apricot had a cape and flares
anrl heaps of beads. The Wittenoom lady
graced an amethyst affair wrought with bril-
liants. Nancy Catton Grasby’s floral chiffon
was effective, and jade georgette well became
Helen Murray. Bess Edwards stood out in
white satin and silver lace, and Yvonne
Nairn’s choice was orchid chiffon with a
petalled-taffeta hem.
Months of preparation were embodied in
the centennial historical and industrial pro-
cession. Offspring of the first settlers repre-
sented their ancestors, with bullock-carts,
Cobb and Co.’s vehicles and pack-horses as
accessories. Dirk Hartog, in tall Dutch hat,
doublet and hose, headed the explorers, and
marines of a hundred years ago marched side
by side with to-day’s bluejackets. The Bus-
sels depicted the scene of “Cattle Chosen,
and descendants of the Drummond family
were passengers in a replica of the ship
Parmelia. Brockmans, Cliftotis, Lee Steeres,
Forrests, Lefroys and Leakes were to the
fore.
The girl in the academic gown is Erica
Chandler, who has just returned from the
Universities’ debating orgy held in Tasmania.
Miss Chandler
was the only
woman mem-
ber of the visit-
ing teams, and
during her dis-
courses wo n
a p p r obation
not only for
her clever
handling of the
subjects under
discussion, but
for her charm
of voice, man-
ner and ap-
pearance. Un-
til recently
Miss Chandler
was assisting
Effie Stone-
man, M.A., at
the Perth
P s ychological
Clinic, but has . ,
suspended operations there to sit tor liei
Diploma of Education.
Officers of the Canberra were guests of
honor at the Karrakatta Club Ball, held as
part of the Royal Show and Centenary cele-
brations. Mrs. J. A. Klein, in silver and
black, was official receiver .m the ballroom,
with a background of palms and Geraldton
wax. Carnations and maidenhair tern
adorned the supper-rooms. Wings were
spread by seven dainty debs. Mary Bate-
man’s plumage was satin-banded white georg-
ette inset with silver and mounted on shell-
pink taffeta; Dorothy Forbes was in blos-
som-pink georgette, flared and pointed and
set with diamente; Nancy Horbes was
white clad, with close-fitting bodice and
frillv, fluffy tulle skirt; Ngsere Purser s white
flounces were worn over primrose, and Petty
Piesse chose soft white satin and hanky
point tulle. Blush pink satin and a swirl of
tulle became Betty Sparke, and Betty Davies
combined white with touches of pink and
hand-made flowers.
Wilfred, younger son of the Vice-regals,
has been promised the heart and hand of
Nizza Laura, the W. F. fearells eldest
daughter. The bridgroom-to-be is connected
with the Forestry Department, and intends
making his home in the State.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The Chamber of Commerce, with tactful
neutrality, entertained both Priminister-to-be
Scullin and the Bruces—-of course not on the
same occasion—at Hadley’s Hotel. Mrs.
Tom Murdoch, wife of the president, at the
function in honor of the Bruces wore black
miroir velvet under a satin wrap. Mrs.
Bruce wore black lace under a wrap with
a black and grey fur collar. The Premier
and Mrs. McPhee, C. W. Grant, Mrs Grant,
Senator Ogden, the Prout Webbs, John Gelli-
brand and his lady, golfer Ivo Whitton, the
Propstings, Elliott Lewis and his l&dy, thG
Brettingham Moores, the Buchanans, Claude
James, the David Merediths and a host of
others were there.
Social activities have been shelved to
make place for political ones for the last
few weeks, and drawing-rooms have been used
for serious discussions about the welfare
of the realm. Everyone has been taking the
elections very seriously, and the ten-
sion has been high. Mrs. E. M. Chapman
held a drawing-room meeting at her house
in Holebrook-place, when John Gellibrand
addressed a big gathering of women.
Members of the Lyceum Club gathered
in force to congratulate their senior vice-
president, Mrs. Sorell, on her 90th birth-
day. President Mrs. Henry Dobson pre-
sented Mrs. Sorell with an address of good-
will from the members. It was an ordeal for
such an old lady to make a speech of
acknowledgment, but it was accomplished
gracefully by the guest of honor, who was
almost hidden by the bouquets and sheaves
of flowers laid o:i the table before her. Mrs.
Sorell is still an active member of the club
and enjoys her game of bridge there.
The O’Grady was chairman at the Red
Cross summing-up, when it was reported that
the junior society had started 10 branches
at the schools.


HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE /
High Blood Pressure, frequently the result of “nerves,” is a disease of our civilisation, and
generally attacks people between the ages of thirty and sixty.
‘Nerves,” insomnia, dizziness and head pains are frequent symptoms of High Blood Pressure.
The well-known Sydney Chemist Mr. W. J. Rogers has prepared a home treatment for High
Blood Pressure which has proved invaluable to many sufferers.
Containing no drugs, easy and pleasant to take, Pressure-Dyne is safe for the most delicate person
and is most efficient in its action, as this letter indicates.
, Cremorne, Sydney,
2J,/9J’Z9.
I have been suffering from High Blood Pressure for sevei'al years, wilh severe head pains
and insomnia. Since taking Pressure-Dyne, however, I have noticed a great improvement.
1 have not had a sick or dizzy turn, or the slightest headache for six weeks, and I get a good
night’s rest every night, thanks to the Pressure-Dyne berries.
It has been really wonderful for the insomnia.
MRS. D. GRAHAM.
The excellence of Pressure-Dyne in High Blood Pressure, for soothing the nerves and in cases of
insomnia, is well known, and it soon brings the High Pressure down to a safe level.
Sufficient Pressure-Dvne for six weeks’ continuous treatment costs only 20/-. If you can’t call
and get it personally from Mr. Rogers, all you have to' do is to pin a £1 note to this
advertisement, with your name and address, and send it to Mr. W. J. Rogers, Chemist, George
Street, Sydney, opposite the G.P.0., and Pressure-Dyne will reach you by return mail, with full
directions for use; [or by V.P. Post if desired].
DO YOU WANT TO EARN MORE MONEY?
sd
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and enter
a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to send for
our Prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal to the
demand. NOW is the time to begin.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Head Office,
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s Endowment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and for cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company’s offices.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
“Where’s she gone, eh?” he demanded.
“Sinabada bin go ’long Gabubu, Tau-
bada,” Gaduweli told him politely.
Merton regarded Gaduweli with distaste.
Then he hunched his shoulders, and his
fist crashed on the native’s jaw. The house-
boys fled, uttering yelps of terror. Gadu-
weli crawled under the table and lay there
whimpering. Merton picked up the table
lamp, balanced it in his hand and hurled it
into the garden. Then laughing as if in
enjoyment of a huge joke, he reeled into
his room.
At daybreak he awoke from a heavy
sleep, blinking aching eyes. At first his
thoughts took no very definite shape, but
presently painful facts began to jerk into his
consciousness. He had always thoroughly
disliked Blake. Now he hated him. He
had always suspected that Blake was keen
on Lesley. But not for a moment had he
experienced the
slightest pang of
jealousy. Far back
in his consciousness
was the feeling that
some day, in some
ind e fi nable way,
Blake’s regard for
Lesley might b e
made to promote
his own scheme of
life. That was the
consideration that
had influenced him
when he accepted
Blake’s good offices
in the first instance;
that was why he had
sedulously striven to
make use of Blake
ever since.. And
Blake’s feeling for
Lesley had contri-
buted to his plans
all right. It had
saved him from
prosecution, perhaps
from imprisonment,
certainly from a
crushing fine and a
deportation order.
But—a spasm of
pain contracted Mer-
f o n’s features— it
had robbed him of
Lesley.
Merton groaned.
He had felt so cer-
tain of Lesley.
Always she had
seemed so com-
pletely his. Even
during the last
month, when, in her
childish wilfulness,
she had flouted him,
scorned him, treated
him as if he were
trespasser in his own
house, in his heart
he had been sure of
her. He assured him-
self with dogged in-
sistence that he had
never doubted her;
that she had no feel-
ing for Blake other
than a mild and
friendly interest. If
only she had with-
drawn her hands
from his impassioned
clasp; if only she
had silenced him, if
only she had not
looked at the
poacher in just that
way, that way he
had thought she
could look only at him! If only she had
not ranged herself so definitely on the side
of his enemy! If only she had not so
contemptuously called him a liar! If
only
Suddenly a thought that had been lurking
on the border of his consciousness, a thought
which but yesterday he would have dis-
missed as monstrous, came whirling into his
mind. Who was the spy at Laubogi? Who
was the informer? Who had transmitted
to Blake the information that had so nearly
put him, Merton, behind the bars?
An icy chill came over Merton. Every
week-end since her recovery Lesley had
tripped off to Gabubu. And each time she
returned her demeanor had been a little
colder and harder, a little more hostile,
more difficult. Could it be possible that
she had schemed to precipitate this up-
heaval, planned to betray him to Blake,
and then, by nicely judging the time and
place, had purposely goaded him into giving
her a legitimate excuse to break a bond
that irked her? She was the spy, the in-
former! She it was who had passed on to
Blake the information that was intended
to ruin her husband. Between them they
had tricked him, fooled him, handed him
the rope by which he had proce'eded to
hang himself. Blind rage surged within
Merton and he clenched his hands and
gritted his teeth in impotent fury.
He saw himself beaten by the man he
had sought to trick, humiliated by the
woman whose simplicity he had despised,
but whom he had trusted blindly. He lay
back on the stretcher, staring upwards,
motionless, racked by bitter thoughts.
Gaduweli knocked timidly upon the door,
“Then he hunched his shoulders and his fist crashed
on the native’s jaw.”
bringing tea. Merton roared at him, and
he departed in quaking terror.
That day four laborers deserted from
Laubogi. The next morning they limped
into the Government compound and ex-
hibited their battered bodies to Blake. They
told him with many tearful groans that
their taubada had gone suddenly mad.
CHAPTER XXIV.
In Which Tod Lorimer Takes a Hand.
Stephen Blake looked up with troubled
eyes as Captain Barstow stumped into his
office. Offshore the Siai rode at anchor.
“Well, R.M.!” rumbled Barstow, thrust-
ing out a calloused hand. “What d’ you
know?” He sagged into a chair and mopped
his face. “Hot as the hobs of Hades
ashore!” he averred. “Sure sign of the
change of season.”
Blake agreed absently. Obviously the
magistrate’s mind was not concerned with
the weather. There was a certain constraint
in his manner, a look of anxiety in his eyes
Barstow was quick to notice. Rumors had
filtered through to the Siai that things were
a trifle mixed in Akupaka Bay, and the
skipper wondered where, if anywhere, the
Resident Magistrate fitted into the picture.
“You have been omitting Laubogi lately,
Skipper,” Blake opened. “What are your
movements this trip?”
Barstow laughed. “Merton’s been raising
Cain with the owners. Refusing to ship,
an’ all that. Owners capitulated.”
“Then you’ll be going over to Laubogi?”
The skipper nodded. “Finish discharging
here, and take in outward cargo. Then
over to Laubogi. Won’t call here coming
back except to
pick up passengers.
Must connect with
the Moratau going
south, y’ know.”
Blake was
absorbed in con-
templation of his
fingernails. “I’ll
take it as a favor,
Skipper,” he said
slowly, “if you’ll
refuse any cargo
Turver may offer.”
r, , . ... T .
Barstow stared. No can do, R.M., he
declared emphatically. ‘Owners’d go stark
mad. Sorry an all that, old chap. Nothing
doing. Absolutely!”
“Then I’ll put it another way,” Blake
returned softly. “Tell Turver that he is
well advised not to ship this trip. Tell him
that this is a friendly suggestion from the
R.M.”
Barstow pursed his lips, and whistled. He
remembered then that on a previous trip
the magistrate had displayed considerable
interest in Sam Turver’s business activi-
ties.
“Can’t pretend to follow you, R.M.,” he
growled. “But if you say so, R.M., I
s’pose it’s all right. Dam’ funny, though!”
Blake slapped him on the back. “Thanks,
Skipper!” he exclaimed. “I’m obliged.” He
picked up a long official-looking envelope
and handed it to Barstow. “Include this
in your loose mail, please,” he asked. “I’ve
already sealed up the bags and sent them
aboard. I forgot this one.”
Barstow nodded. He rose to go. “Must
get along. S’pose you know old Tod has
booked Mrs. Merton’s passage with me to
Moresby?”
Blake gave a little start, but his voice
remained casual.
“No, Skipper,” he answered. “I was not
aware that Mrs. Merton was leaving us.”
Blake felt confused. He knew that behind
the skipper's bald announcement lurked
curiosity. Blake remained silent. Bapstow
opened his lips to speak, thought better
of it, and closed them again.
Left alone, Blake sat very still, and his
vision turned inward. So Lesley had made
her choice. Her hurried departure from
Laubogi was the final break. She was go-
ing, leaving New Guinea, leaving her hus-
band and her home. A sense of physical
sickness oppressed Blake. He told himself
that the fault was wholly his. He suspected
that for weeks past all had not been well
at Laubogi. He knew from vague hints
dropped by Tod Lorimer and from his own
observation that Merton had in some way
deeply offended his wife. But his was the
hand that had wrought the final catastrophe.
He it was who had made it utterly im-
possible for husband
and wife to win
through to any sort
of understanding.
A surge of shame
invaded him. H e
had let himself go,
and by his folly he
had involved the
lady in overwhelm-
ing ruin. His mind
recoiled from any
attempt to justify
his actions. To
Stephen Blake right
was right, and wrong
was definitely wrong.
Not by any specious
mental process could
he make it appear
otherwise.
Now Lesley had
fled from Laubogi—
there was no name
for her departure
but flight—and the
world, even the
handful of people
who made up the
Austra 1-Papuan
world, had very
definite opinions
concerning wives
who deserted their
husbands, and about
inter lopers who
kindled such
domestic conflagra-
tions.
He had made no
attempt to see her
since their last dis-
astrous meeting.
That, at least, he
felt he owed to her.
He would go to
Gabubu now, before
the Siai returned and
she went out of his
life for ever. He
would not try to in-
fluence her in any
way. He would not
dissuade her from
her purpose, nor
attempt to put him-
self right in her
eyes. In a few short hours she would be
gone. Gone! A tempest of emotion flamed
up within him.
=i= # *
Blake’s face was tense as he waited in
the music-room at Gabubu for Lesley to
appear. He wondered how she would re-
ceive him. It alarmed him to think that
she might not wish to see him at all; that
she might send Moira to him with a mes-
sage of farewell.
He heard a light step at the arched
entrance and he stood up, forcing a thin
smile, nervously fingering his helmet.
(Continued on next page.)


c
%
I fife
m
/
©
■
mm :
HI '
n
W , ',/V.
mL tlli
*
ENHANCE/
THC/E SUBTLE
CURVES CE FIGURE
Another Gossard triumph—this. Another
irresistible suggestion of how the celebrated
Gossard Line of Beauty can be emphasized
by the simplest foundation wear. For, you
must realize the subtle curves which your
figure enjoys are really nature-endowed. The
Gossard Line of Beauty is your own entirely.
Your Gossard garment merely enhances
retention, scientifically planned.
And could anything be gentler—give you
more freedom and comfort than this deft
combination of hookaround and separate
bandeau? Yet the line is preserved the
ideal silhouette achieved as perfectly as if
molded in marble.
The leading shops have these actual garments
on display. We invite you to see their per-
fect handiwork with your own eyes.
A hookaround made of attractive satin
brocade and machine woven elastic. It has
an elastic top of fancy two-inch web. There
is a panel of the brocade over each hip be-
tween the elastic sections. The back and side
panels are boned and there is a boned lining
section over the abdomen.
Cunningform bandeau made of crepe
de chine designed to give an uplift effect by
means of drawstrings diagonally placed so
that the bandeau may be adjusted as desired.
Insert of two-inch elastic in back.
The Canadian H. W. Gossard Co., Ltd.
114-120 Castlereagh Street
SYDNEY, N. S. W.
GOSSARDS ARE MADE WITHIN THE EMPIRE
Lesley paused, doubtfully it seemed to
him. For a moment she stood in embarrass-
ment; then she came forward, stretching
out her hand. There was no anger, no
resentment in the glance she bent upon him.
“I am glad you have come, Stephen,”
she said huskily. “Very glad.”
She sat down abruptly. There were
shadows under her eyes, her lips were
quivering, and her white face showed the
ravages of mental and nervous stress.
There fell between them a shy, awkward
silence. Both were aware of constraint,
both conscious that the emotional strain
through which they had passed at Laubogi
had raised a vague, intangible but very real
barrier between them.
“I’m glad,” Blake stammered at last,
“that my calling here at such a time is
not an intrusion. I’m ashamed, deeply
ashamed of my part in this deplorable
business.”
Lesley’s lips tightened. “There is no-
thing with which you need reproach your-
self, Stephen. The break had to come
sooner or later. It was inevitable.”
“You have quite made up your mind to
—to go?”
She nodded dully. “Quite!”
Again silence fell. Lesley averted her
head, and when she spoke again, her qyes
avoided his.
“I have been going through a process
of intense introspection,” she said. “I have
been making discoveries, Stephen. You
have been very good to me. How good I
am only now beginning to realise. But—
but” Her voice weakened. She rose
swiftly to her feet, and Blake saw that
tears had gathered in her eyes. “Why didn’t
you tell me, Stephen?” she flung at him
chokingly. “Why didn’t you warn me?”
Blake colored. He was wholly taken
aback.
“We—we thought,” he stammered, “er—
his friends—that—that”
“You were never his friend, Stephen. I,
his wife, am challenging you. Can you
deny it?”
Blake lowered his head. He could not
bear to look upon her reproachful eyes, her
stricken face. Lesley paced feverishly
across the room and back to him, lacing
and unlacing her hands.
“You blunderer, Stephen!” she cried.
“You dear, loyal blunderer!”
She hid her face in her hands; another
gush of tears came, and groping her way
to a chair she sat down. The reaction of
the fierce emotional strain of the last few
days had come.
Blake held himself to his chair, struggling
with emotions of which he was afraid. But
he would not fail her a second time; he
would not by hasty word or impetuous act
add one grain to her burden of woe.
And so Tod Lorimer discovered them
when, having seen the last canoe-load of
his copra dispatched to the Siai, he returned
to the house. Tod’s face wore an odd ex-
pression of mingled perplexity and con-
cern. He looked from the man to the girl,
and an unreasoning fear took possession of
him. Hu could not shut his eyes to the
signs, the portents. They were showing
visibly on the ravaged face of the man, they
were made abundantly manifest in the
shrinking, sob-racked form of the girl.
And they spelt danger ahead for Lesley
Merton.
Tod Lorimer was as passionate in his
devotion to Lesley Merton, as sturdy in
her defence, as Stephen Blake himself.
Men said there was no bridge between his
world and hers, yet she had found one;
more, she had crossed it. Her sway over
Moira was absolute. Moira had suffered
no horrible x-eversions since her friendship
with the white girl had ripened into inti-
macy. Every day Tod discovered in his
daughter new and challenging evidence of
her altered outlook. Every day she was
drawing nearer to the ideal he had set up
for her. And Lesley Merton had wrought
the miracle. Old Tod was very grateful,
and very humble.
To-day Moira’s good angel was facing a
crisis. And with the remorseless logic of
old age, Tod saw that she was choosing
unwisely, that her heart was ruling her head,
that the road she had elected to travel led
only to disaster. Tod was by nature a
shy, l’eserved little man, the last to offer
uninvited advice, the first to shrink from
anything in the nature of meddling. But
there comes a time in everybody’s life when
five minutes of plain speech may save an
eternity of regrets. Tod Loi-imer felt that
to Lesley Merton that time had now
arrived.
He returned to the music-room. Lesley
had disappeared, but Blake still sat there,
absorbed in what were obviously unpleasant
thoughts.
“I want a word with you, my boy,” Tod
opened abruptly/ “On the verandah, where
we won’t be disturbed.”
Blake l'ose without a word and followed
Tod Lorimer to the verandah.' Tod seemed
to have difficulty in lighting his pipe.
“Make y’self comfortable,” he invited.
“No use to beat about the bush, my boy.
Is Merton’s missus leavin’ ’er ’usband on
account of you, Steve?”
Blake stiffened. “Really, Tod”
“Mind yer,” Tod silenced him, “she’s told
me nothin’. All I know is that the lid ’as
blew orf at Laubogi, and that .you were
there when the explosion ’appened. ’Old
on, now! I’m askin’ you, man to man,
Steve, if she’s leavin’ Merton on account
of you?”
That is—damn it, Tod, she has a
righi to bleak a bohd that has become in-
' tolerable to her;”
Lorimer stared at him, his brow pucker-
ing. “I see,” he said softly. “Then you
did start the riot, Steve?”
Blake’s face clouded with annoyance. “The
subject is extremely distasteful,” he
answered stiffly. “We’ll change it, please.”
Lorimer winced under the other’s coldly
administered snub. His mental processes
were not quick, but they were very method-
ical, and since Lesley’s arrival at Gabubu
he had been thinking very profoundly
indeed.
“Y’ won’t ’elp me, then, Steve? Right!
I’ll tell you wot’s the matter with you.
You’re kiddin’ y’self about succorin’ ladies
in distress—doin’ the ’igh-minded gentleman
act. But y’ doin’ dirt, my boy— dirt!”
Blake stared at him coldly. “You forget
yourself, Tod,” he exclaimed. “You have
no right”
“More right to butt in than wot you
’ave. Be honest with y’self. Come down
to earth.”
Moira Lorimer was in the dining-room
making up the mail for the Siai. She heard
Blake’s angry voice and her father’s angry
rejoinder and she tiptoed to the door.
“How dare you impugn my motives!”
Blake flamed. “Have you any conception
of what that poor girl has suffered at
Laubogi?”
Lorimer laughed bitterly. “You ’aven’t,
Steve,” he retorted. “Not the ’alf of it.
I could tell you things”
“Then why do you attack me and side
with that blackguard?”
“Him! I don’t give a tinker’s cuss for
him. I’m flunkin’ of the sinabada. And
you kiddin’ y’self that yer motive’s first-rate,
and .all the time doin’ ’er dirt. I thought
more of you, Steve.”
Moira, round-eyed, fled swiftly to Lesley,
who was struggling with a cabin-trunk in
her bedroom.
“They are talking about you—Dad and
Mr. Blake,” she whispered. “Strange
things they are saying, Lesley. Come!”
Lesley smiled sadly, shaking her head.
“Go quickly, Lesley!” she hissed. “This
talk is foolishness. If you do not hear the
things they say you will be vary sad woman
—all your days you will be vary, vary
sorrowful. He is vary wise, my Dad.”
“But, my dear”
Mpira stamped her foot and her eyes
flashed. She placed a hand over Lesley’s
mouth smothering her protests, and guided
her to the dining-room'. All Lesley’s in-
stincts were for retreat, but Moira was so
wrought up that against Lesley’s better
judgment she remained.
Lesley heard Blake’s voice. It was cold
with anger. “You’re insufferable, Tod! How
dare you suggest”
“For God’s sake come orf the ’igh ’orse,
Steve. If y’ were ’alf a ’undred magistrates
and the Governor thrown in, I’d make y’
see wot a ’oly mess y’ makin’.”
Lesley heard Blake’s chair creaking as he
moved impatiently. Then:
“I think I ought to tell you, Tod, that
I’m leaving this division.” Lesley’s eyes
grew wide. “I mailed an application for
transfer to-day. That, I fancy, puts an
entirely different complexion on your
absurd”
“That,” emphatically, disgustedly, “is the
dizzy perishin’ limit. Y’ can’t dodge
trouble, my boy, by ’oppin’ away from it.
Be straight with me, Steve. I’d do any-
thin’ for you, excep’ ’elp you to bring more
trouble to little Lesley. Give us the strong
of it, Steve.”
There was a deep, tense silence. Lesley
did not know what was exercising old Tod
Lorimer’s mind. All she knew was that in
some entirely incomprehensible way he was
fighting for her, and her heart warmed to-
wards him.
“There was a row, Tod—a perfectly
beastly row. I—l knocked him—laid him
out.”
Tod Lorimer whistled.
“Things have been working up to a
break between them for weeks. It was
patent to anybody with eyes to see. It is
better that she should leave him—without
fuss, without scandal, without”
“Fuss! Scandal! Carn’t y’ see wot you’ve
done, Steve?”
“I know I was a sickening fool to lay
hands on him. I knew it then, and I know
it now.” Blake’s voice was humble. He
was riding no high horse now. “What else
have I done, old friend?”
There was another long silence. Then Tod
asked with seeming irrelevance:
“ ’Ave you got anythin’ on Merton,
Steve? Anythin’ y’ can ’old over ’im, like?”
“I have,” grimly.
“Anythin’ serious?”
“By Jove, yes!”
“Good! Then go over to Laubogi first
thing in the morning and bang ’im over
the ’ead with it.”
(To be continued next week.)
Song of the Disgruntled.
High over Bondi springs the sun
For joy to see the shingled heads
(And legs) of Lace Departments run,
With Manufacturers of Bods,
Into the surf, where Bottle-o’s.
Before the eyes of God and man
(Except for vees) upon their toes,
Stand equal with the Potts Point clau;
Or, with an equal tumble, fall,
Buttock and brisket on the shore.
Jehovah made ’em, one and a 11....
Where is the sense in making more?
N.S.W.
HUGHMAC.


A
REVELATION
OF BEAUTY
TASMANIA —Land of
rivers, lakes, mountains
and harbors —is renowned
for its scenery and invigor-
ating climate.
Undoubtedly it is an isle
of majestic splendor and
offers to the weary main-
landers a refuge for the
vagaries of an Australian
summer.
HOBART —is the centre
of this untold wealth of
scenic grandeur and rest-
ful charm.
From here the visitor can
be transported to every
beauty spot in the island.
Book your passage with
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU,
Ocean House, 34 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Macmillan's
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised, are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Australia and the British
Commonwealth
By the Hon. J. G. LATHAM,
K.C., M.A., LL.B., Attorney-
General of the Commonwealth of
Australia. [Shortly.
The Sovereignty of the British
Dominions
By A. BERRIEDALE KEITH,
D.C.L., D.Litt., Regius Professor
of Sanskrit and Comparative
Philology in the University of
Edinburgh. [Shortly.
HUGH WALPOLE’S NEW
NOVEL.
Hans Frost
A story of conflict in the spirit
of a great writer.
[Dominions Edition.
The Complete Stalky & Co.
By Rudyard Kipling. With
frontispiece and sixteen illus-
trations by L. Raven-Hill. 1 Os.
6d. net.
The first complete collection of the famous
“Stalky” Stories.
NEW POCKET EDITION.
Works by the Author of
Elizabeth and Her German
Garden
Cloth, 3s. 6d. net each. Leather,
ss. net each: Elizabeth and Her
German Garden; Adventures of
Elizabeth in Rugen; The En-
chanted April: The Benefactress.
Others to follow.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
“Tk Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals r ith every subject of
interest to women.
GENTLEMEN! I ask you
to join me in a “Spot”
of McCallum’s Perfection.
Sole Distributors for the House of McCallum:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORI & CO., LTD.,
Macquarie Place, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN"
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
15hQ
NATIONAL BANK
OP AUSTRALASIA LTD.
HEAD OFFICE, MELBOURNE.
fsd
Capital Paid up
£5,000,000
Reserve Fund
£3,100,000
Total Assets
£47,431,823
492 Offices and Branches in
Australia.
LONDON OFFICES:
7 Lothbury and
Australia House, Strand.
Principal Office in New South Wales:
342 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bank provides a complete service covering the financial
side of Australian Industry—including farming, grazing,
manufacturing, transport, wholesale and retail trade, as well
as import and export transactions. It makes loans against
approved securities and allows interest on money lodged on
deposit for terms ranging up to two years. Full provision
is made to meet the banking needs of tourists and settlers.
Agents throughout the World.
Missing' Friends.
nro ERIC VICTOR GEORGE ERICK-
* SON formerly of Garden Street South
Yarra in the State of Victoria but now
of parts unknown Carpenter.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife Kathleen
Eleanor Gladys Erickson has commenced
divorce proceedings against you on the
ground of desertion during three years and
upwards Unless you enter an appearance
in the Office of the Prothonotary of the
Supreme Court of the State of Victoria
within one month from the publication of
this advertisement the case may proceed in
your absence and you may be ordered to pay
C ° StS ‘ P. J. RIDGEWAY,
60 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
DOSENTHAL. —Any person knowing the
whereabouts of VICTOR ROSENTHAL
(brother of Michael, Abraham, Simon Louis
and Hannchen Studinski, nee Rosenthal),
address in 1919 St. Michael, No. 71 Hunter
Street, Sydney, travelling jeweller, or his
wife or family—something of advantage—
please communicate with the EQUITY
TRUSTEES CO., LTD., 85 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
TONES, JAMES SYDNEY, eldest son of
J late J. C. Jones, Mt. Keira, please com-
municate J. W. RUSSELL, Solicitor, Wol-
longong. Information his benefit.
TOHN ALLAN WILLIAMS, formerly of
J 43 Wolseley Parade, Kensington, Vic-
toria, or any person knowing his where-
abouts, is requested to communicate with
DOWNING & WILLIAMS,
Solicitors,
352 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Legal Notices.
TN THE SU PREM E COURT OF
1 NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1147 of 1929.
BETWEEN EDYTHE GRACE McKAY
Petitioner and JAMES McKAY Respon-
dent.
TO JAMES McKAY late of Young in the
State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Edythe
Grace McKay has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marrige on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the thirty-first
day of December one thousand nine hundred
and twenty-nine and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on appli-
cation to the undersigned solicitors free of
charge.
DATED this eighth day of October, 1929.
For the Registrar,
[l.s.] C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
& COWIE,
Solicitors for the Petitioner,
115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
H STATE OF ELLEN McNAUGHT late
of Goulburn in the State of New South
Wales Widow Deceased Intestate.
TAKE NOTICE that the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE is the administrator of the estate
of the above-named intestate who died at
Goulburn on the 18th day of January 1928
The intestate’s half-sister MARY TUNNY
(born Harrison or Harris and wife of
OWEN TUNNY) died at Orange on the
25th day of July 1901 and had issue of
whom two namely MARGARET TUNNY
(or Batten) and HALIFIELD TUNNY
are alleged to have predeceased the intes-
tate The said Margaret Tunny and the
said Halifield Tunny were born over sixty
years ago in the Colo district of the-said
State and if alive on the 18th day of Janu-
ary 1928 would be to share in the
distribution of the intestate’s estate ANY
PERSONS CLAIMING to be the said Mar-
garet Tunny or the said Halifield Tunny or
claiming through them are required within
two months of the publication hereof to send
in their claim to the Public Trustee 67
Castlereagli Street Sydney in the said State
otherwise the Public Trustee will distribute
the estate among the next-of-kin of whose
claims he then has notice.
DATED this Bth day of October 1929.
E. J. PAYNE,
Public Trustee.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
THINK OF
/ ?£rI
SCHUTE,
BELL & Clio.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
X
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.


500 N...
. . . . the thrill that only f
the Trout Angler Knows •
\
\
- .
<r>«
4 K
r ' . fppp*'. .is*’****
„>-■ ,■. rT'wJM&V ' r: N
~/‘
• .-•
s- ■;..
mE.gsr;
TROUT SEASON
Opens Ist November
Those beauties that got away last season.... that wily
old fellow that will not take the most tempting of
lures is still in his favorite haunt. . . .waiting for you.
Mick Simmons, largest distributors of Fishing Tackle
in the Commonwealth, announce a most brilliant new
collection of special Trout Rods, Reels and Flies, etc.,
from the foremost English and American manufac-
turers. Let us forward you a copy of the Angler’s
Guide. . . .the finest publication of its kind south of
the line. It is post free.
SPECIAL TROUT RODS
EB^rrESsn:
■in , - i na^Vgg.?rpvi"W .-•• "I'-rJ'lr.ia.iTrt-i-11-i-k't t-ESTtt^SsSS**
No. 2.—M.S. “PERFECTION” SPLIT CANE TROUT ROD,
2 joints, 3 tops, cork grip, serrated lock-joint
ferrules, encased agate butt and end rings. > inn ij*
In bag £6/17/6
No. 3F;—M.S. FEATHERWEIGHT SPLIT CANE TROUT
ROD, 1 OJft., 3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip, suction joints,
encased agate butt and end rings. In bag. .c ICb If
Weight, 6foz Ati /£/ O
No. 7.—SPLIT CANE ROD, 3 joints, 2 tops, cork
grip, metal reel seat, spiral guides, nickel plated CIS.!
mounts. In bag
THE “M.S.” GREENHEART TROUT SPINNING ROD, Io|ft.,
3 joints, 2 tops, cork grip, double brazed, snake rings. __
In bag O&l V>
SPECIAL TROUT REELS
I
No. 2 METAL ROTARY CHECK REEL,
aluminium alloy, large drum, -t / f
diameter 3Jin * -I/O
No. 1 .—METAL TROUT REEL, well
made, with private guard, 3Jin., 13/0
No. 4.—METAL TROUT REEL, bronzed,
tevelled edge, large aluminium
drum, removable check, 3 Jin. . . /O
HARDY’S “PERFECT” REEL, contracted, made of aluminium.
Large barrel for quick winding, regulating check runs and ball-
bearings, and it is almost frictionless.
3 fin 72/0 3fin 80/™
TROUT FLIES FLY BOXES
Every known pattern. n , Nos. 4 5 6 7
Per dozen O/- 4/6 7/6 9/6 18/6
Famous “RED LOOP" GUT CASTS
2fyds., tapered. Each ' 2/3
M. S. Combination Landing' Net
Patent collapsible 45/-
And also Spinners, Silk Lines,
Fishing Bags and all Accessories.
(Carriage is Extra on Fishing Tackle.)
MkkSimmons Km
HEADQUARTERS: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
“ Australia's Largest Distributors of Fishing Tackle."
ALEMITE
Systems of Lubrication
for
PLANTATION
and
FARM
Implements and Machinery
*UM
The same lubricating efficiency as is used
in the modem motor car can now be
installed in machinery and implements used
on plantations and farms.
The Alemite Systems insure correct lubri-
cation because they force in the new lubricant
under a pressure of from 500 to 5000 pounds
per square inch, forcing out at the same time
the old gritty, wom-out grease.
An Inexpensive System
to Install
Alemite or Alemite Push Type Fittings (the
valves through which the lubricant is forced
into the bearings) can easily be installed on
any piece of machinery to which the old style
grease cups are attached. All that is neces-
sary is to unscrew the
old cups and screw in
the Alemite fittings.
The fittings cost only
a few pence.
Plantation and Farm
equipment run much
better and last much longer when equipped
with Alemite.
f
ALEMITE MANUFACTURING CORPORATION
Division of Stewart-Warner
Chicago, U. S. A.
Full Particlars from
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH
Resident Manager,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives :
Bennett & Wood, Ltd 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
Motor Supplies, Ltd Brisbane
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd 894 Hay Street, Perth
E. A. Machin & Co., Ltd. . 535 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
Cornell Limited, 122 Pirie Street, Box G.P.0.,496 E. Adelaide
For the Dominion of New Zealand:
Jas. J. Niven & Co., 152 Wakefeld, Street, Wellington, N. Z.


THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 Georce Street, Sydney.
HOW A SHILLING GROWS
One shilling per week deposited regularly in the Common-
wealth Savings Bank will, in 23£ years, reach a total of £lOO
—provided that the deposits are regular and the interest is
allowed to remain in the Savings Account.
Here, however, is the real point. Of the £lOO mentioned in
this example, you deposit only a little over £6l. The Common-
wealth Savings Bank provides the balance in compounded
interest— over one-third of the total.
Idle money earns no profit. Set your shillings to earning as
well as accumulating.
Cbmmonwcaltb Savings lank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
LOVELY
LAKELAND
Where the ocean surf booms on
miles of white beach, where the
rolling, green-mantled hills
slope into the mirrored blue
of the s'tea—there, sunlit
and sparkling, stretch
the Ginpsland
Lake’s, a string
of glittering
jewels in a
setting of
green
and
gold.
Consult the
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU
QUEEN’S WALK, MELBOURNE.
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. ’
Untold Tales of Bully Hayes. —
Belmore Sue.
ALBERT DORRINGTON
TELLS AN OTHER TALE OF “THE LAST OF
THE BUCCANEERS.”
BULLY HAYES was of opinion that the
last sovereign had vanished from the
seas. From Fiji to the Marquesas
there was a notable stringency. Traders
who once blissfully jingled the minted stuff
now offered him lOU's.
“If ever I set hands on an Australian
quid again I’ll get Murphy the policeman
to sit on it," he confided to his mate, Tom
Emery. “Silver is scarce, too. A sailor
was murdered at Moresby a few weeks back
because he’d got four thrip'ny-bits in his
clothes.
“It’s these Levuka planters that’s got it
tied up,’ Emery growled as he bent with
hammer and sprigs over his dilapidated
shore-going shoes. “They tread it into the
ground and make bullion paths round their
gardens.
I believe they do, Tom,” Hayes rumi-
nated darkly. “The first time I catch one
ot em spreading his filthy money around I'll
poison his goats.”
The mate regarded his coral-torn shoes
with a splenetic eye. It seemed years since
he had received his last month’s pay. And
by all the omens it would be years before
he received another month’s. He spoke with
his mouth full of nails.
Old Jim Lewis says you’re beginning
to neglect cargoes; says you’re scared stiff
of the gunboats and won’t stay in any port
long enough to paint the anchor.”
Hayes bristled instantly. “Is that what
Lewis says? Why, the old bigamist hadn’t
enough labor on his run to weed a garden
un UI I brought him the pick of the islands
—fifty boys, not one of ’em over twenty.
Three deaths only on the run to his dirty
creek entrance. I scoured the Pacific to
keep these sugar men alive in Queensland.
And now they talk about gunboats !”
Hayes sulked in his hammock through the
hot afternoon as the Leonora heaved in the
flood wash at the mouth of the Telave River.
Inland, a sheer wall of jungle blotted out
the north and west. On his quarter a line
of reef bellowed and raved under the surf.
A cloud of sea-fowl hung about the Leonora’s
galley and rail. A hungry ship and a lonelv
stretch of reef and jungle!
Her Majesty’s gunboat Penelope had been
seen as, far north as the Bismarck Group
searching for Hayes in the Leonora. His
capture and trial on charges of illegal recruit-
mg were eagerly awaited in Sydney and Bris-
bane. So far the fast-sailing Leonora had
easily eluded the slow-footed, ironshod keepers
of the seas. But there was to be no peace for
Ilayes until he was gaoled or driven from
Australian waters. Meantime his money-
chest was at low ebb, and traders had grown
chary of delivering cargoes to an outlaw
with no fixed address. Hence the Leonora
cooled her heels off this wide-mouthed, reef-
blistered river entrance, where the jungle
met the skyline-and the air was sullen with
the breath of mangrove and poison swamp.
The sound of a voice calling from the river
bank took Emery to the Leonora’s rail, the
half-mended shoe and brad in his hand. A
man of thirty, wearing a dapper suit
o, shantung and panama, was signalling with
a handkerchief.
The mate regarded him pensively, and then
turned to the brooding, debt-tormented Hayes
m the hammock.
“There’s a chap on shore making signs to
come aboard,” he growled. “Looks as if
he and fallen off a saloon coastal packet. Got
a tulip or something in his buttonhole.
What’s to be done?”
Hayes relaxed suddenly, then spoke with-
out turning his head. “Ask him what he
wants. Be careful. He might be a blamed
admiral out of a nursery rhyme. They do
fall off the bridge when the ship rolls.
Listen!”
The mate leaned over the Leonora’s rail
to catch the words flung out by the im-
patient man on shore. Not a syllable escaped
Emery as he hung forward watching the
gesticulating arms and handkerchief.
“I want a passage to Cooktown. There’s
no vessel due here for a month. Any chance
of you sailing shortly?”
“Not much,” the mate gave back dubi-
ously. “We want a cargo. Your passage
money wouldn’t pay for wiping the mud off
our anchor.”
There was a silence in which the young
man in the spotless shantung appeared to
be making swift calculations. After a while
he spoke again.
“I’ll pay a hundred pounds for a safe
landing anywhere on the Australian coast,
Cooktown preferred. A hundred pounds
ought to tempt you people. There’s not
much cargo offering at this port except
beetles and bamboos.”
> Ilayes skipped from tin* hammock with
. no more sound than a ghost. “Wliat’s that
; I heard about a hundred quid, Tom?” he
i asked in an undertone.
“Wants a passage to Cooktown, quick, by
the sound of him,” the mate confided. “Men-
tioned a hundred skinners as the price he’ll
pay. S’truth! He must like Cooktown!”
A hundred quid!” Bully Hayes swal-
lowed a big breath, his brow buckling in a
effort of mental concentration.
Mom, he said huskily, “bring him
and the money aboard at once. He
can have the ship and the moon and all
the stars between here and the Barrier Reef
We’ll treat him like the Sultan of Kila-
maroo. Another week in this river and
we 11 be eating the barnacles off our plates.
lut on a clean shirt. Tom. We’ll swing the
longboat over and fetch this Rupert Roths-
child aboard in style.”
The longboat, with Amalpi and another
i apuan deckhand at the oars, pulled ashore
the mate steering. The man in the white
shantung followed their moverru nts closely
as Emery made fast to a tangle of roots.
The mate’s glance passed to a small pile
of luggage almost hidden by the tangle of
foliage higher up the bank. Seated on one
ot the leather bags was a girl ef twenty,
a palm-leaf fan waving briskly in her hand.
The mate stifled an exclamation at sight
of the slim, elegant figure while the man in
the spotless shantung laughed quietly.
“I ought to have mentioned that the young
lady goes with me.”
“Is she your wife?” Emery asked. “The
Leonora isn’t a passenger ship. A lady on
board is going to be awkward.”
“She won’t make a bit of difference. You’ll
find her quite easy to get on with. The
fact is we’re going to get married at the
first Australian port. At the moment all I
can say is that it’s a runaway match.”
The intending passenger cast smiling
glances in the direction of the girl seated
on the big leather bag. Emery’s smile had
vanished. He was thinking how Hayes
would receive this young girl, the daughter
of some rich planter, probably. It was a
touchy problem.
The man in the shantung was speaking,
his foot on the longboat’s rowlock. “My
name is Baring—Montagu Baring. lam
connected with a bank in Batavia. I’m will-
ing to add another fifty pounds to the pas-
sage money if you will take Susie—Miss
Shenstone —to Cooktown.”
Tom had a wife and daughter in Sydney,
and, tough old blackbirder though he wa's,
had always frowned on runaway marriages;
although no one but a Chinaman would have
run off with his Emma, he believed in paren-
tal rights and parental authority. At the
same time he had a kindly feeling for young
people cast away, so to speak, on a God-
forsaken peninsula.
“I’ll take you both aboard,” he decided at
last. “We’ll let the skipper settle the
matter.”
He turned to Amalpi, the gigantic Papuan
with the brooding eyes, and spoke quickly.
“Get that luggage over there and stow it
in the stern. We’re going back n'ow.”
Susie Shenstone was tall and straight as
a young bamboo. She smiled eagerly as
Emery helped her into the longboat. She
carried a valise, and the fragrance of a
hundred islands seemed to have gathered in
the yellow of her hair.
In a moment they were speeding back to
the brig that hung still as a shadow in the
hot, lifeless air. In all his life Tom Emery
had never sat so near a beautiful woman.
He had encountered the hefty brown and
shaded belles of many an island trade-house.
But here was something more akin to a per-
fect Australian peach, vivid, radiant. From
her prettily-shoU feet to the top of her shim-
mering hair she exuded the charm of a young
sultana.
“How, how in Hell did she get into this
fever hole?” he asked himself as the long-
boat stood under the Leonora’s lowered gang-
way. How had she travelled from Batavia
to the spewy death lands of the Telave?
She looked as if she had just stepped out
of a ballroom !
And here was Hayes in his long-discarded
pilot-jacket and white trousers waiting to
receive them. Bland and handsome, curious
as any schoolboy, the big seaman drank in
the slim creation that mounted the gangway.
Emery called up to him from the long
boat: "The gent. Mr. Baring, will explain
about the lady, Cap’n. I’ll stand by in case
you can’t take her.”
Montagu Baring greeted Hayes the
moment he reached the deck. “I have ex-
plained to your officer in the boat,” he said,
“that Miss Shenstone and I desire to get
married in Cooktown. To refuse us now
would be a calamity. We’ve burnt our
bridges!”
Hayes gripped the proffered hand, his
sharp eyes alive to the arresting beauty of
the woman before him. He had met many
society women in his day, the wives and
daughters of consuls and governors. For
the moment his manner was direct yet cour-
teous.
“I’m sorry to say this brig wasn’t built
for passenger carrying,” he said. “My ways
are rough and the brig’s rougher. There
isn’t a place, so to speak, where a lady
can rest in comfort.”
Miss Shenstone’s glance went up and down
the brig, over the little group of Kanaka
deckhands squatting in the forepart, and
then rested on the big-voiced seaman in the
blue jacket.
“It’s a clean ship and it smells good,” she
answered. “We’re asking a great favor, I
know, Captain. But if you refuse me a
passage and send me back in the boat I
shall die of jungle fever.”
Her slender, jewelled fingers touched his
sleeve, and his eyes twinkled merrily.
“Wherever you die, Miss Shenstone, there
will be roses for remembrance,” he told her
gallantly. ‘l’m glad you like the Leonora:
she’s as smart and well found as anything
you’d see at Farm Cove.” Then he spoke
to a couple of boys standing in the brig’s
waist. “Tidy up those two cabins next my
stateroom. One for this lady; one for the
gentleman. Get that chintz chair of mine
and % put it in the lady’s cabin. Plenty linen
in my lockers. Lay it out nicely,” lie in-
structed with the air of a saloomcabin
steward.
The Leonora stood away before a freshen-
ing nor’-easter. Emery was at the wheel.
Miss Shenstone had long ago gone to her
cabin, while Mr. Montagu Baring sampled
some of Hayes’s cheroots in the only deck
chair aboard the brig.
Hayes sat alone in his little stateroom, a
month-old bundle of newspapers on the
writing-desk before him. Whenever the
chance offered he always collected the latest
papers—for one thing, they told of the move-
ments of the ships of the Australian naval
station.
Days before the coming of Montagu Bar-
ing and Miss Slienstone his eye had fallen
on an item of news which had gripped his
imagination. It concerned the looting of
the bullion vault aboard the four-thousand-
ton Empress of India, bound from Sydney
to Calcutta. The purser had been drugged
one night when the Empress was entering
Singapore. It was discovered later in the
day that two of the Empress's passengers
from Australia had left the ship. One, a
young girl travelling in the saloon, had
booked under the name of Sellars; the other,
Bernard Nolan, a steerage passenger, had
stepped on at Brisbane.
The name “Sellars” clung to Hayes’s mem-
ory in a tantalising way. There was Dan
Sellars, who ran a shooting-gallery on a
vacant plot at Belmore Park. Dan's
daughter Sue, in those days a leggy kid of
thirteen, used to load the rifles on Saturday
nights and gaff with the men and boys who
thought they could make bull’s-eyes. He
tried to recall this leggy, larrikin girl with
the tongue of a serpent and the face of a
madonna. Alongside her father’s shooting-
gallery, he recalled, she was often in con-
trol of a spinning board where sailors and
boys put their shillings or pennies on a
number.
Sue Sellars, he remembered, too, had the
tiniest hand in the world, as many a tipsy
sailor discovered when he searched his
pockets after Sue had bustled him.
Hayes wondered now if Sue Sellars re-
membered him and the nights he used to
make the wheel hot with spinning, or the
money she won scoring bull’s-eye after bull’s-
eye against him at her father’s racketty old
gallery!
Three of the newspapers before him gave
Sue’s history in Sydney until she had been
traced aboard the Empress of India. She
had graduated from the shooting-gallery and
the spinning-wheel to the card saloons of
the big 8.1. liners.
He recalled how she used to dance at
Clontarf with her pretty pink sash and fairy
feet. And woe to the newchum who stepped
too near when she was dancing! A nod
from her had put a nark of a policeman over
the cliffs once. The push was fifty strong,
and Sue had them in the hollow of her hand.
And this Bernard Nolan? The papers
knew nothing of him. Maybe he was Uo
cheap and too pasty to have a history—one
of those derelict card-sharks you could pick
up by the tail anywhere between Thursday
and the billiard-room at the Bull and Month.
Probably Sue had met him by accident. The
drugged purser of the Empress of India and
the burgled bullion vault had come out of
Site's brain; Nolan had merely stood by
while she dug out the sapphires and
emeralds.
Better than the old spinning-board!
Better than the smoky little rifle-range with
its kerosene flares! Better than dipping into
the pockets of tipsy sailors and giving away
the money to the first blowsy old dame who
came to the stall with a crying face.
Yes, Sue had always been a good little
giver.
Hayes scanned the dates of the newspapers
on the desk, and arrived at the conclusion
that it had taken Sue and Nolan exactlj
three months to travel from Singapore to
the Telave River. Proas, sampdns, cafgo
tramps, rice-boats; Batavia, Surabaya, Lom-
bok. And that valise had never left her
hand! In jungle rest-houses and paddy
boats, on catamaran and paddle steamer, it
had never left the little hand that.used to
search the ti-psy sailormen’s pockets.
And here she was, crazy to reach Sydney
with the boodle, fighting her way through
cane and swamp, dodging the big liners
and public routes with a nerve .of steel,
making east and south for home. Good
little Sue!
Bully helped himself to a stiff glass of
whisky, and then reached for a small red-
backed book on the desk. Opening it his
eye traced certain items :
Hanrahan for stores at Townsville . . £B9 13 0
Matsu Hayadi ditto, Thursday .. .. 17 0 10
Mother Lanigan, Dawes Point .. .. 100 0 0
“Mother Lanigan—her hard-earned sav-
ings !”
There were other items for stores and
canvas amounting to five hundred pounds in
all. H'ayes closed the book with a grunt.
Then he passed to the door and called to a
boy at the stairhea'd.
“Tell Mr. Emery to come here when his
trick’s over. And say to Amalpi he’d better
put that accordeon away and wash down
the scuppers—the big swab !”
It was some time before Emery left the
wheel. He entered the stateroom, the lines
of his jaw and brow relaxing at sight of
the proffered whisky bottle. He helped him-
self in silence, and then waited for wdiat w T as
coming.
(Continued on page 57.)
“MERRY CHRISTMAS!”
One of the judges in The Bulletin s” First Novel Competition
wrote: It is worth plodding through a hundred bad to middling
yarns when there s such a prize as Merry Christmas!’ waiting for
you at the end. it will not get in the first three. It isn’t good
enough literature for that. But there s more fun in it than in any
of the others—more fun than in a hundred of the others put
together. And it’s the purest Australian. The man who wrote it
knows his Outback from A to Z. I don t, as I said, recommend it
for a place, but I write this memo, to recommend ‘The Bulletin’
on no account to miss publishing it as a serial.”
Begins Nov. 6. Arthur Groom is the author. Harry J. Weston
will be the illustrator..


Hanking, Public Companies, etc.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH;
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Slock .. .. ••
Preference Shares .. .. •• L870,00J
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. I.l’lll
Ordinary Shares .. .. ■ •
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS f.ISI
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Fire Insurances effected on all classes of
■ 'Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends use the telephone
and obt’ain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Youthful Charms
Enhanced By Cuticura
Soap and Ointment. Regular use
of the Soap, assisted by the Ointment
as needed, will keep the complexion
fresh, clear and youthful and the hair
live and healthy. Cuticura Talcum
is fragrant, cooling and refreshing, an
ideal toilet powder.
Soap Is., Talcum ls.3d. t Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
*‘R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
gfJS?? Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
Ztoe
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion" is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from —
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to Tcnow.
Shipping, et«.
On Southern
Seas . ... or
Sunny Shores
WHETHER on board the liner
en route for Honolulu or holi-
daying on the Sunny South
Sea Isle, your enjoyment is assured.
For Hawaii is a world-famous
holiday resort, whilst the vessels
engaged in this tour the Niagara
and Aorangi—are imposingly large,
wide-decked and splendidly fitted for
pleasure.
Return Excursion Tour—via Auck-
land and Suva: —
£75 First Saloon; £55 Second.
Departures:
NOVEMBER 14, DECEMBER 12,
JANUARY 9, FEBRUARY 6.
Union Steam Ship Co.,
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
AUSTRALASIAN
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
java
(The Wonderland of the East).
OLD BUDDHISTIC AND HINDUISTIC TEMPLES—NATIVE BAZAARS.
EXCELLENT BIG-GAME SHOOTING. BEAUTIFUL TROPICAL SCENERY.
EXTENSIVE TEA GARDENS. INTERESTING PEOPLE.
Regular monthly sailings by the favorite vessels
“MARELLA” (7500 tons) and “MALAEAR” (5000 tons).
The Beautiful Solomons
Full of interest and romance and situated only seven days
steaming n.-e. of Sydney. The comfortable and popular
S.S. MATARAM sails from Sydney on November 13 and
December 21, visiting 30 picturesque Island Ports.
ROUND TRIP 4£ WEEKS. FARE £4l
Write for Pamphlet No. 52/8 to
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
*
m
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
0Sk
sdf
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20.900,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 192 b, £88,982,585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
554 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances''made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
S7>e
“BRISBANE COURIER”
IS THE GREATEST ADVERTISING
MEDIUM IN QUEENSLAND
Advertising figures have proved over years that both Local and
National advertisers regard the Conner as the greatest daily
newspaper published in Queensland.
For the month of August the “Courier” carried almost 1 ° o ° cols,
of advertising, or approximately 24,000 inches of advertising more
than its contemporary
THE “BRISBANE COURIER”
FIRST IN CIRCULATION, COVERAGE,
AND INFLUENCE.
IS
ADVERTISING
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Co Queen Street Brisbane.
Rep.: Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. Phone: 85007.
Shipping, etc,
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
and
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*§Ulysses . .
fCeramic . .
*Themistocles
*First class only.
15,000 tons, Oct. 23
18.500 „ Oct. 29
11.500 „ Nov. 20
f“Cabin” class only. §Via Suez.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd • 1 Joint
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. J ***"**
Splendid Cheap Service
Via Suez Canal.
FAST OIL BURNERS
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued frcm Sept, to Feb., £32-
P. g 0. BRANCH SERVICE
SPACIOUS DECKS—DECK CABINS —EXCELLENT
SIENU CINEMA —DANCE MUSIC REPRODUCED
WITH ELECTRIC AMPLIFIERS —SWIMMING BATH
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 86701
BRISBANE, viaBYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
SS. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
SS WOLLONGB All—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Set*
BRISBANE.
* Ist earner and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/B/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NQRTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd..
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Huddart Parker
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Svdney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LI MITEO
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
ra rare;
MB
- unsold
pleasures
in her
Rocky
Mountain
I^ecjion
WHHfUrn
i
mm
’." ■ . ;•:•
wX’X'i’W'W' .'Jw
mmm
H#tW?
*WrWW*WWW 4
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
TtieWorlds Greatest Travel System
If any illustration in The Bulletin tak e »
your fancy, write to the Manager, who un-
quote you price for the original.


HAIR.
V
w-
NEED
N°
HERES
•umu-
Urey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and. can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
&CllUris (.MEXICAN)
VkJtuJjt StsJuri
''REMOVES THE GREY'*
Sole Australian Agents:
DUE It DIN & SAINSIJURY, LTD.
Ho:xl Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable loyally, posted
direct (’i'll), ltd. I piny postage.
w
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
m.
" I find Rexona Soaf>
invaluable for my skin
and hair.”
EVE WILLIAMS.
Guard Skin Beauty!
A woman is most often judged by her complexion and
hair, and does that not generally create an impression of
her true personality ? If your skin or hair tells the story
of neglect or thoughtless habits, does it not give a bad
impression ? Care for yourself, and the world will care
for you—give your hair and complexion that attention
which is so invaluable to you.
Use Rexona Soap daily, and you will soon be astonished
with the improvement.
You will fully experience how soft and smooth the
skin becomes when you use this delightful Soap—how
clear the complexion, how soft, silky and lustrous the hair.
An economical dainty luxury—Rexona, the Aristocrat
of Soaps.
Price I/- per tablet
11l 111
M
it. y
&
illln,
iiiiiii
Biiiiiumiii
mm
REXONA
• SOAP
for Health and Beauty
J RSIOR
Hayes was biting the end of a lead pencil,
conning a row of figures. It seemed a long
time before he spoke.
“We’re out of stores, Tom. I’m blamed
if I know how that Chinky cook of mine
turns salt junk and a few rotten spuds into
crisp patties and omelettes. We’re on our
last barrel of flour and the last of the
molasses. And this kid Baring said the
dinner to-night was a treat! Now, Tom, ’
Hayes went on, “we’ve got to run this ship
or take to the beach. The hundred and
fifty I got from Baring won’t fatten us or
my creditors. I guess your missus, standing
over her little tub in a Sydney back yard,
has to step round to make up her rent.”
The mate shifted his feet uneasily and was
silent. Hayes listened to the sounds on deck,
the crush of foam alongside, the continuous
small voices of hull and rigging. Then:
“Only a mutiny will save us!” he declared
at last. “And you’ve got to fix it, Tom !”
“A mutiny?” The mate’s eye blazed sud-
denly. H’e stood away from the desk and
stared almost fiercely at the big man in the
chair.
A slow, mirthless grin touched the buc-
caneer’s lips as he contemplated the spell-
bound Emery.
“Listen, Tom. This Miss Shenstone has
a packet of bullion-room jewellery in that
bag she. sleeps with; and God knows what
besides in those trunks you brought aboard,
lhe pickings and findings from a score of
saloon cabins.”
The mate was about to light his pipe; the
match burned to his fingernail, while his
jaw sagged.
„ That young girl, Cap’n! Pickings and
findings! You’re daft!”
Ilayes whirled in his chair. “Stow that
gab! She’s the cleverest little spieler that
ever tapped a ship’s safe.”
The mate , fawned limply beside the buc-
caneer s chair, humbled in the presence of
such high-sounding iniquities.
“Tell us about this mutiny, Cap’n,” he
stammered at last. “I ain’t got the idea
yet; and I don’t like the word.”
Hayes slammed the desk softly with his
great fist. “There’s got to be a mutiny ! It’s
the only way we can fool her. If I was
Ross Lewin or Pease I’d bust open her
cabin door, snavel her little bag and ask her
to blanky well stop screaming. That’s
W rnu oould do, but won’t. And for why?”
lhe mate glared in silence.
Hayes stood up and lit a cheroot. “For
why? Because the moment she got ashore
every man, woman and child in Sydney and
Brisbane would hear how Bully Hayes had
pinched Sue Sellars’s few belongings, and
left her to starve on a beach! I know
ffiat I am, he went on. “From the Rocks
to Manhiki I’ve slogged and kicked to death
more bullies and curs than you could pile
on a wool waggon. But I never hurt a
woman in my life!”
The mate nodded, waited for the rest.
.So Ive got to put it across her without
violence, Tom. Listen. The night before
we reach Thursday Island we’ll stage my
mutiny with that big slob Amalpi in the
star part.”
"He’ll go to sleep in the midde of it,” the
mate predicted. “Sleeps like a cat when he
gets a chance. Beside, he’s scared of his
own shadow.”
, do.’.’ H'ayes insisted, “because lie’s
aait a toot bigger thqn me. Sue would never
befieye that any other man on this ship
could lay me out,” he added with pride.
He couldu t lay you out with dynamite
and rum, ’ the mate complimented.
I guess not,” the buccaneer grinned. “I
tound lnm up in the Huon Gulf, fishing off
the reef. I brought him aboard the brig
and threw his relations overboard when they
came on deck demanding'" his return to the
beach.”
T liat’ s Set for playing his part, Cap’n?
I h have to promise him something.”
All that turkey twill in the storeroom,
a couple of good knives and an axe to take
back to his village.”
“Aye, Cap’n.”
The main point is to rush me while I’m
asleep down here. Amalpi can do that. The
others can make a darned row when he car-
ries me on deck. Sue will see it all. And
as / 01 ; M r. Baring, you’ll tie him up, too.
and throw him alongside me on the deck,
lou can throw him hard, Tom. And by this
“{he the brig will be standing close in to
lhursday Island. You’ll put Sue and Baring
mto the longboat and send ’em ashore.”
lhe mate grunted approval. A second
glass of whisky from the bottle on the deck
lemoved the last lingering doubt concerning
his ability to deal with Sue and Baring,
lhe valise she carried would not leave the
ship.
Hayes prowled up and down the narrow
stateroom, listening for sounds in the next
cabin, where Sue was reading a book she
had found in one of the lockers. Baring was
still in the deck-chair.
“And then,” Hayes halted near the mate
and whispered, “the game’s ours. We’>e
fifteen strong, all told. Once the pair are
T d l e l° n gb° a t they haven’t a squeak
left. Thieves on the run have got no sav
with the cops at Thursday Island. The*
little heavy bag is ours. I’ll tell you more
about the bag later on.”
The mate swallowed a deep breath. “And
while this is being done, Cap’n, you’ll be lying
trussed up on deck?”
“That’s it, Tom. I’ll be bound with ropes
and helpless. I’ll only be able to call out
how sorry I am these bloodletters of mine
have turned on me at last. I’ll tell her she’s
lpeky to get away with her life.”
The night was drenched with mist and
spray from the plunging bows of the sail-
- Leonora. Through the driving fog
the lookout caught the starry blaze of lamps
and buoy-flares. Thursday Island lay under
their quarter.
A small group of figures had gathered in
the brigs waist. Amalpi, the Huon Gulf
accordeon player, towered amongst them a
belaying-pin in his hand.
He spoke in a stammering undertone to
the silent Kanakas around him, then gav
out a piercing yell that was like the stroke
of a whip on the overwrought nerves of
Emery at the wheel.
Waving the others aside, Amalpi hurtled
down the narrow stairs leading to the state-
room, shot along the passage, and brought
up with a snarl at the shut door of the
stateroom.
Hayes was reclining on the old chintz-
covered sofa inside, a glow of satisfaction
suffusing liim at the blood-curdling disturb
ance coming in his direction. He heard
Sue’s key snap in the lock of her cabin door.
She, too, had heard Amalpi’s war-whoop.
"He’s a better derned actor than I
thought!” Hayes muttered, rising from the
sofa. “Now for it!”
The stateroom door fell in with a crash as
the giant Papuan struck it with shoulder
and belaying-pin. It was as though a charg-
ing bull had entered the apartment. Naked
to his loincloth. Amalpi glowered uncertainly
at the half-crouching Hayes, a tiny slaver
of foam on his thick lips.
“Don’t hang fire !” Hayes whispered. “Slam
round, you big stiff. Make it rough. She’s
listening in the next cabin.”
For an instant Amalpi drew away from
the crouching figure of H'ayes. Then he
seemed to whirl across the floor, the pin
smashing right and left among the stateroom
furniture. In the bat of an eye mirrors and
desk were flying splinters; the Blackwood
piano Hayes had carried over the world
was being smashed under the flailing blows
from the iron pin.
Rage swept Hayes across the stateroom,
his right fist slamming at the Papuan’s
jaw. “Fight me!” he snarled. “Don’t
wreck my damned ship !”
Amalpi swayed from the right-hander, and
in the turn of a shoulder struck out with
the heavy pin.
Hayes sagged, and rolled face down on the
stateroom carpet. Amalpi bent over him, the
lunatic flock of foam still on his lips.
“You catch-um my father with this pin
long time ago. Me no longer fright. Mine
think you no more strong feller. You come
alonga deck like one dam’ chicken!”
"With a coil of rope, placed ready to hand,
the big Papuan bound Hayes, wrist and
ankles, with the celerity and craft of a
foresail hand. With scarcely an effort he
gripped the Avhite man in his arms and bore
him up the stairs.
A deadly silence greeted Amalpi as he
flung the unconscious Hayes on the for’ard
hatch. The small group of Kanakas receded
towards the fo’c’s’le head as he turned to the
poop, where Emery stood watching the belly-
ing foresail from his post at the wheel. He
chuckled at sight of Hayes, roped and inert
across the hatch. The skipper was a good
actor, he told himself. And that big fool
Amalpi was doing himself credit.
Amalpi gained the poop with no more
sound than if he had been a man-killing
panther. He made his spring before the old
seaman knew he had left the deck. The
belaying-pin smote above the mate’s right
ear, and again as Emery crumpled under
the poop rail.
Amalpi stood glaring at the hunched figure
under his feet. Vkunumu! They wanted
mutiny, these taubadas. It was easier than
killing turtle.
The Tanna men in the waist and fo’c’s’le
were chattering with fear now that Hayes
was hurt and helpless.
“Me no fright any more!” There was
blood on the iron pin in Amalpi’s fist. The
sight of it woke the slayer in him as he
leaped down from the poop. A death-hush
had settled on the slow-heaving Leonora. The
Kanaka crew were wailing behind the bolted
fo’c’s’le hatch. Not one of them would face
him now.
He shattered an open skylight with a blow
of the pin, and the sound of falling glass
struck new terror into the listening Kanakas.
“Me no fright any more!”
Downstairs again, he halted at the cabin
door of Mr. Montagu Baring. Mr. Baring
was in his bunk, an oil lamp swinging from
an,overhead beam. He had been conscious of
unusual sounds around him. But things
were always happening on deck, shouts and
cries, with the eternal trumpeting of the
skipper’s voice.
A tornado of blows on the cabin door lifted
him from his bunk. Through a burst panel
in the door he saw a demon-like shape smit-
ing and pounding with an iron pin. A few
more blows left space enough in the wood-
work for both men to sec each other clearly.
“You come along deck!” the Papuan
shouted. “You go in one feller boat along
Hayes. He no more cap’n here. Amalpi
master now!”
“All right, Amalpi. I’ll go ashore with
H'ayes. Easy with that belaying-pin while
I call Miss Shenstone !”
The giant Papuan hunched his shoulders,
eyes ablaze, the pin beating time to his
snarled-out order.
“She no go ashore. She stay along ship.
You jump-um now, quick !”
Mr. Montagu Baring jumped and gained
the deck, where the longboat had already
been swung from the falls.
The door of Sue’s cabin opened almost
in the face of the fight-frenzied Amalpi. The
glow of the cabin lamp brought out the
brightness of her hair. Her face had become
pearl white. A dark veil capped her head
like a helmet.
For one instant she stared at the Papuan
before her, while her eyes narrowed to slits
of steel.
“So Baring scooted upstairs when you told
him!” Her words held the lash of a hurt
fury. “You said jump, and he jumped, eh?”
Amalpi hung hypnotised in the corridor.
His fascinated eyes took on the gleam of a
snake’s.
“He bin jump quick. Me boss of this ship,
now. Plenty fright everybody.”
She leaned from the doorway of the cabin
the better to see him. “You mean all those
black blobs upstairs are frightened of you?”
A peal of jeering laughter broke from her.
“Why, I’ve seen things like you crawl under
a heap of bananas. The ship frightened of
you! Why, you’re just one of those boojums
the kids used to shoot out of my box in
Belmore!” ; ... "A.
Amalpi did not understand her words.
But the savage in him was rent by her
lightning scorn and mockery. Il'e stood away
like a sulking bull.
Came the sound of the boat being lowered
as several of the Kanakas hastened to obey
the dominant Amalpi. Sue heard, and under-
stood. Thursday Island lay abeam. A brig
full of black mutineers was no place for
her.
“I’m going on deck,” she announced flatly.
“Stand away!”
A Colt’s revolver slanted from her clenched
hand. Amalpi had seen the movement and
leaped to grab her in his arms.
“You no leave ship!” he howled. “Me
boss here!”
A shattering explosion boomed along the
( Continued, on next page.)


FEATURES THAT HAVE MADE THE "SWAN” FAMOUS
O* '
■p'
Self-Filling
“ Swans”
from 17/6
Black or Mottled
Also in artistic
colours from
22/6
Instant
Action
“ Off the mark,” in a
flash—alert and eagerly
responsive !
The comb-like capillary
slots of the “ Swan ”
ladder-feed hold the ink
against the nib as
it was left when writing
ceased, so that the pen
is ready to write again
immediately the point
touches the paper.
<6-
<b
“Fyne-Poynt” Pencils from 7/6
Self-Filling “Blackbird” Pens from 9/-
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., Swan House, London, W.I.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Ask to see the New Coloured “Swans.
Swan
PEN
99
“SWAN
INK —Best for “Swan” Pens and all Pens
6
NOW NEATLY CASED at same price
A strongly-made grained-leather case is now provided with every Plum
Razor, at no increase in cost. With its blade set to perfection—guaran-
teed and kept in order for two years free the Plum Razor shaves cleanly,
easily, quickly—leaves the most delicate skin smooth and comfortable.
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Real Ivory Handle 21/- ,»
Satin-lined double case free with pair.
7-day Sets—7 Razors in Case.
Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
Post free to any address.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George
Street, Sydney*
corridor. The big Papuan halted in his leap
to stare at something unbelievable and pro-
foundly interesting. Then he drooped and
fell in a heap at her feet.
The deck was astir when she reached it.
A group of bewildered Kanakas was standing
near the falls, staring down at the boat where
Baring was seated in the stern. Then she
saw the roped figure of Hayes on the for’ard
hatch. Her cheeks blazed.
“Ain’t none of you got nous enough to
untie the skipper!” she flung out, snatching
a knife from the sheath of a jabbering deck-
hand. In a moment she had cut through the
ankle and wrist knots.
Hayes fought to a sitting position on the
hatch, his fingers caressing the great bleeding
bruise on his forehead. Then his feet found
the deck with the unsteady lurch of a hurt
mastiff. Slowly, painfully he made his way
to the head of the cabin stairs and stared
down at the black huddle of arms and legs in
the passage.
A bitter grin stayed on his lips. His
chest heaved under the stress of his move-
ments. “That’s what you were worth to
me, Amalpi,” he said —“a bullet in the neck !
And you thought she would stand for your
guyver!”
Reluctantly almost he made his way to
the falls where Sue was standing, the small,
heavy bag in her hand.
“You needn’t have stopped to cut me
loose.” he growled. “The boat was ready for
you!”
“I always stop for little things like that,
Bully!” she gave back with an uncertain
smile. “You did as much for me one night
at Belmore, when the larries kicked my stall
over. You tried to fix it up again and told
me not to cry. And. oh my”—she trembled
for the first time —“that black pansy down-
stairs gave me a fright!”
Hayes spoke to a boy at his elbow. “The
lady’s bags, Goma. Put them in the boat!”
He turned again to Sue. “The Barrabool
is due here to-morrow. She’ll take you
home.”
H'e fallowed her down the lowered gang-
way to the boat under the falls. His face
darkened at sight of Baring in the stern.
“He jumped,” Sue cried, “when that black
sugarstick ordered him. Please ask him to
jump out of that boat, Bully, back on to this
ship. You’ll b.e kinder to him than I’ll be.”
Montague Baring crawled to the deck of
the Leonora, and down to his cabin.
Something dropped from Sue’s hand as she
stepped from the gangway to the boat —a
thick roll of banknotes. Hayes recovered it
quickly, and was about to thrust it into her
sash. She eluded him nimbly.
“I’ve got more than I’ll ever eat in a life-
time, Bully. And you’re so broke you can’t
buy tea and sugar!”
He watched the boat shoot away to the
mist-wrapped lights at the pier head as
Emery came stumbling from the poop, swear-
ing, staggering across the deck. He saw
Sue lean back among her bags as the bin-
nacle light touched her hair to red gold.
Pageant of Summer.
Ho, Faunus, blow your pipe; sweet dryads,
leap
Forth with your petals, purple, pink and
red!
Brown summer on the centaur's back has
shed
Th’ encumbering mantle from her swarthy
arm,
And, in a mild alarm,
Quivers the sleeping land
As the gay singing band
Storms every plain and steep!
Faunus, your drum! And, all you- fat
nymphs, break
Out of the ranks, gambolling in the grooves
The thundering chestnut carves with his
great hooves
As gallantly he goes. Oh, red and red
Glistens his wreathed head
Clasped in brown Summer’s arms,
While little, quiet farms
Out of their torpor shake.
Men toiling at the plough a moment stare
At the horizon ; and the housewives turn
From foaming bucket, or the clotted churn,
Whisp’ring: “I thought I heard a soft foot-
fall”....
Answ’ring an eerie call,
As. suddenly beguiled,
Children go running wild,
Wondering what is there.
O opal peaks cupping the tides of day!
Trees drowsing in the noontide, wake and
■tvake!
Tremulous, the lazy branches shake
Into a half-reluctant burgeoning,
And every feathered thing
Follows the pipes, the drummer
Crying: “Summer! Summer!
Summer, hey, ho, hey!”
So on and on the chestnut and his bride
At the high noon of amour surge apace,
Till shaggy satyrs, weary of the race,
The crumpled flowers dropping from their
hair,
With the white dryads pair,
And young fauns in the meads,
Grown breathless at their reeds,
Harry the chestnut’s stride.
Bend at her passing, thin, green ears of
wheat!
Rustle your banners, ranks of golden corn!
Old and perilous rumors are reborn,
So that the very clods, remembering, chime
A phallic, broken rhyme;
Joy-drunken goes the train;
Each hollow rings amain
Beneath the trampling feet!
O laggard Faunus, now the birds deride
Your playing, and each hurrying watercourse
Thunders more loudly than the chestnut
horse,
And every knoll in splendor is arrayed.
Trembles the light, the shade!
Clash, cymbals! Peal O drums!
As the brown Summer comes,
Brown Summer comes in pride !
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.
Bush Night.
On either hand
The gums like bowed monks stand ;
The night’s deep blue
Shines like a staunch faith through.
When over this shaken blue
Comes the moon’s encrusted light,
Whatever I want to do
Seems right.
VICTOKIA.
FURNLEY MAURICE.
Rocks and Sea.
The rocks are warm under my bare feet,
The shallow pools are hot to my cold hand.
I lie on the warm rocks and drink the heat.
Filling mind with the curve of the cool
sand: ■
I turn to the cold green of the waves that
tower.
There’s cold fear in my heart of that
threatening wall;
But guardian rocks make sport of its
pitiless power:
In impotent beauty the. foam-lipped
breakers fall.
Then peace surprises my heart like a. bird’s
song,
My fear is muted, my spirit rises free;
Ecstasy fills me, confident, sure and strong,
And life has an exquisite rhythm like the
sea.
QUEENSLAND.
MARJORIE BULCOCK.
The North Roads.
Oh, worn are we of our daily grind,
And the nightly clock and cat,
The tasks that halt us, body and mind
With hobbles of This and That.
Out, let us out on the roads once more
That glamor the North alway,
From Cooktown over to Singapore
And back to Carnarvon Bay!
From Darwin down to the Philippine,
From Rabaul round to Rangoon,
The North Road runs where an anthem fine
Is sung to a tropic tune.
A sapphire road that beckons and smiles,
The call of the Indies old,
An azure road of a Thousand Isles
And rubber and rice and gold.
Aye, blue and calm are those scented seas
That roll by our Northern gates,
And warm are the winds of the Celebes
That ruffle Macassar Straits,
Singing their songs of the ships foregone,
Of Dutchmen and Portuguese.
The Spaniard swart in his galleon,
Dark Arab and slow Chinese,
Telling their tales of those eager, grim
Polyglot argos of gain,
Faded long o’er a horizon dim
And never to sea again.
For spice and silver and silk they fared ;
For pearls and for precious freights
They faced the typhoon and greatly dared
The terrors within his gates.
No stout mynheer in his stubborn pride
Oak-borne from the Texel mouth
Beats, worn by weather and wind and tide,
His long course slowly south.
But the surf still lays its tribute white
At the feet of green Aru,
And sweetly falls in a starlit night
The sound of a Dutchman’s screw.
A Tamil crew, if it needs must be;
A tramp if no liners go
To steamy ports of the Banda Sea
Or the shores of Borneo;
A long prahu like a greyhaurid lean
Offshore on a young monsoon
A-nosing her passage sure between
The jaws of the dark lagoon:
By this and these shall we come and go
From Maraukc unto Sabang
To trade—if Allah doth will it so—
With Ali and Si-Alang.
Oh, Si-Alang is a Dyak wise,
And they come not always back
Who flout the Koran or utter lies
Or drink o’ermuch of arrack.
Aye, Si-Alang is a Dyak yet,
If his thoughts be turned to trade.
He keeps a hone in his house to whet
The edge of his curved kris blade.
A sampan drifts in a muddy creek
Where the jungle hides the skies,
Though monkeys chatter they may not speak
Where that sampan’s owner lies!
A moon of gold with its night course run
To a fresh-sprung morning breeze,
Will bear no tale as a scarlet sun
Comes over the cocoa-trees.
A crocodile blinks at the scarlet sun,
And to Si-Alang it says:
“With grateful ease was my last meal won.
May Allah lengthen thy days!”
A jungle cock in the distance crows;
The call of a temple bel]
Clangs out as a black-haired maiden goes
To her wood-lined village well.
’Tis Banka lies on the starboard beam,
And Rombok’s far a-lee—
We’ll get us out to the Isles of Dream
That sleep in the Indian Sea!
Out. let us out on the roads once more
That circle the North away.
To eat our curry in Singapore
And chatter in Straits Malay.
From Darwin down to the Philippine,
From Rabaul round to Rangoon,
A siren sits in her sarong fine,
And this is the siren’s tune:
“I am the lady who lives by Achen,
Gome, ye my children, oh, come ye, my men!
Kay oh, laju—
-7 am the maiden who sleeps by Sulu —
Gome you again , oh, my lover untrue!
Kayoh, laju —
Spelled by my voice and a-dream of my
charms.
Come you again now, my love, to my arms!
Kayoh, laju-laju.”
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Siient Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLIUGS at OMtiICH, Brisbane. rnftlfflßfl WEST N t UfilCt
N.Z. OlKee—93-107 leatheraton Street, Vt'elllnjrion. 1/UHbUKU V» KOI, IX. d.
Victorian Olliee—“Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne
South Australian Agents: Messrs. EI.IiISR, SMITH & CO., LTI)., Adelaide. S A
mum
iff!
m
mmm
L
V K
*'Jal \
am
SUlBW#®
THE DAILY MAIL
BRISBANE
Is logically the first big daily to select in Queensland for any advertising
campaign. It gets results!
It is always bright and is progressive to a degree.
And its net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to
be greater than that of any other daily in Queensland. Its companion
journal is
THE SUNDAY MAIL
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine. These two journals
give a “cover” in Queensland that is second to none. For rates and
other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE,
Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE”
Established. 1854-
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
No advertising campaign can be success-
ful if the quality of the product adver-
tised does not contain full value for
the price asked.
I your products can meet these require-
ments, “The Age” will prove a valuable
medium for creating goodwill, and
will considerably lessen the time in
moving them from storage to consumer.
Merchants and Manufacturers of quality
products in ever increasing numbers
are realising the truth of the slogan
“It Pays to Advertise,” and are direct-
ing their efforts in marketing through
the columns of “The Age” as a neces-
sary medium for business promotion in
Victoria.
Audited Net Daily Circulation
123,533.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Stref.t, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office? 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Cordon & Gotch, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:'
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Che mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
.carries regularly a far greater total
volume of advertising than any other
newspaper published in Tasmania.
IT is thus, judged by the use made oj
its columns, the most popular
as well as the most powerful of the
newspapers of Tasmania.
PROFIT by the experience of the
■ leading national advertisers, and
place “The Mercury’’ first when
advertising is under consideration.
Average Net Circulation, 20,967.
JT is, undoubtedly, Tasmania’s ablest
1 and best conducted newspaper.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHED S,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
SO Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Uanidh momm,
dispel indignation,
irnrn constipation
tala
o -**
V sil L l S -
r-'-Sv'c-ew.l
syT^
pil&d
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
■i
• :
THIS WEEK’S ISSUE NOW ON SALE
Free Pattern of
Smocked Pyjama Suit
SHORT STORIES AND SERIAL
NEW FACES FOR OLD
What Cosmetic Surgery Does.
THE PYRAMID JUMPER
SALLOW SKINS AND MAKE-UP
FEEDING BABY FROM 1 to 2 YEARS
AUSTRALIA’S BEST WEEKLY
64 PAGES FOR 3d.
h
y*
o
o
mV
0°
6
6V
*
%
9 6
s©
*’•
••• ...••■ V?
y yyy
* 4j%y iv ’


X
ry
• \
mV
■ *!! /*
k>'.'V l‘
m
m
»
Vv.
\Y
e
A
N
I
y.
X
sMfe'fl!
m
i *
Mi
3\i
w W -K«v
WAN
«
JK
i
Kw
Mr
mA%m
1
iH
i
i&
JJ
%
l\\
Si
y
l*\ xf'i
Made throughout from BEST Australian materials.
WARATAH “B.H.P. STAR” STEEL POSTS will not burn. No post holes
to dig—no boring of posts—no wedges or ties —no posts to ram —no
insurance—no white ants —easy to erect.
“WARATAH” FENCING WIRE.—The finest wire made in any part of
the world—will stand the severest test—always even and reliable in quality.
Look for “Waratah” identification disc.
“WARATAH” WIRE NETTING. —Guaranteed even, regular and reliable
—well galvanised. Full weight and runs out straight and flat. Can always
be relied on.
Made at Newcastle in Australia
FROM
“8.H.P.” STEEL
The World’s Best
MADE BY
Rylands Bros. (Aust.), Ltd.,
NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.,
and at 422 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
NO
WEDGES
OR
TIES
“FLEXO” DROPPERS are UNBREAKABLE—FIRE PROOF—RUST PROOF
•Im
illi
lV
U 1
m
i
WILL-NOT BURN.
If you use Waratah B.H.P. Star Steel Posts you need never fear bushfires.
Waratah Posts will not bum. The posts, being- star-shaped, are extraordinarily
rigid. It is almost impossible to bend them. They are a sure protection against
white ants.
With Waratah Steel Posts you should use WARATAH FENCING WIRE. The
finest Fencing Wire made in any part of the world —will stand the severest
straining test —always even and reliable. Look for the “Waratah” disc on every coil.
WARATAH WIRE NETTING, made in Australia, from Australian materials—
guaranteed even, regular and reliable —-rolls out flat.
Made at Newcastle. N.S.W., from finest “8.H.P.” Steel.
oA/fanufcuclured By
RYLANDS BROS.(AUST.) LIMITED
N EIW CASTLE
W /*A-/
200 STEEL POSTS or 20 WOOD
POSTS
PER DAY
PER
DAY
JJ
35*
*+Ky£4fo
..uou^t?
WARATAH BHP STAR STEEL POSTS
A sure protection against White Ants and Damn-rot. Can be easily driven in the
hardest ground. These posts are extraordinarily rigid, and, being star-shaped,
give equal strength in every direction. Also always ask for-
WARATAH FENCING WIRE.
The World’s finest wire—will
stand tlic severest straining tests.
WARATAH WIRE NETTING
Guaranteed even and reliable.
Runs out flat.
RYLANDS BROS.(AUST.) LTD. NEWCASTLE ■
ALL OF ABOVE ARE MANUFACTURED BY
RYLANDS BROS. (AUS.) LTD., NEWCASTLE, N.S.W
AND AT 422 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
MADE FROM THE FINEST
B.H.P. NEWCASTLE STEEL
