

w
p
JLrince Charles Edward ivas
holding court at Holyrood those
weeks , and never was such a
feasting and dancing . They
broached the great casks that
the lairds of the North had
brought down to honor the King
coming into his own. It was
memorable drinking 1 WJiisky
with the captured sunshine of
the barley in it —the tang of
peat smoke, the softness of great
age. To taste —made a man
o
dream of his hills and heather,
of chasing clouds , of ripples on
a lonely loch. Fortunate are
you , grandson of my grandson,
to have just such whisky still.
Dewar s —to cheer and revive
you !
DEW A R’S
The Spirit
of his Ancestors
The Bulletin
Ifffufy Ih Km -id ScAajj an Jmha (P $
Vol. 50.—N0. 2588.
Wednesday, September 18, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office/Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE 1929 LIBRARY CATALOGUE is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free., with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCR’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Love, children, and you will remain young,
He kind is a maxim A 1 ;
So here’s to the song that is. sung,
Of love, laughter, jollity, fun.
Gaiety, happiness, health’
Are riches for those who are poor.
When you cough chase it off! You have wealth
113 Woods’ Great .Peppermint Cure.
—Advt,-
lull
This Book FREE to YOU!
:. SEND THIS. COUPON !
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B
ŵ
r in:
V
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
SN-
HW 3
ẁ
ẃ
Winner Last Year
J. R. Jeffrey, N.S’W,
This may be your
Lucky Year !
DON’T DELAY
Buy your
TICKET
To-day
IND£4OO1 ND £400
•rawn 16th NOV., 1929
Tickets i/- obtainable
from Local Agent
or direct from
A. W. YAGER, M.L.C
Secretary,
Trades Halt,
Sydnej
y
V
EARS
“The Examiner” has been the trusted Friend of the Family-
in Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in
Tasmania, and is still the Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION", COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
r • '
R. ROLPH & SONS
Pty., Ltd.,
73-7.5 Patterson Street,
LAUNC'IiSTON.
MR. V. vy. MAKttIOTTS,
1'22 Flihders Street,
M Rf.ROURXK.
MR. W. G. DOUG AN
7-20 Herald Building-,
CO Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
illustration In “THE BULLETIN”
r fancy, write to the MANAGER,
quote you price for the origii
ẅ
j he hand that holds
the'VENUS"
plans the v)orld
I he first rough suggestion—the skilful
and accuiate working out, the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive effort, call for the use of VENUS
PENCILS. Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the design of a simple household
article, the pencil is the first requirement: the
VENUS the first pencil.
w
17 Blacklead Degrees 68-9 H od. each -4/9 per dozen. Super Copying (Medium & Hard) 6a.
each - 5/9 per dozen. Venus Copying (Medium & Hard) 4d. each - 3/9 per dozen.
s
tin no cocaine or other poisonous drug.
Colds, Sore Throats, Br
For Coughs,
Ju j
MMTWUHfi
' 0 i'
ON
( What the Medical World Bays.-—The Lancet
“Proved to be as effective bactcricidally as if
creosote.” THIS REPORT FRO Ail THE “LAN
CRT” LABORATORY IS UNDOUBTED EVIDENCE
of the VALUE OF EUMENTHOL .'JUJUBES as an
ANTISEPTIC.
1/6 a TirW
Sold at Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers; or
Post Free from the. Sole Ma n \ifacturers —
Hudson’s Eumenthol Co. Ltd., Sydney,
m receipt of 1/0 in stamps of gay Pioriafe.
1 iIMSi
The Red Page
Printing and Literature
W. A. Holman, addressing Sydney Uni-
tarian Church the other day (S'. M. Herald
report), said some true things well about
“movies” and “radio” and this: “Fifty years
ago printing was dearer and less plentiful
than to-day.” It was less plentiful, because
there were fewer people to use it; but it
was not dearer. With the appreciation of
money allowed for, it was cheaper—that is,
better value was given for the money-price.
Of my own knowledge, I can speak from
40 years ago, when I served an apprentice-
ship to the printing trade in Sydney, after-
wards working as journeyman, employer,
author and publisher, to the present time.
If Mr. Holman said or inferred that print-
ing in Australia was dearer 50 years ago
—with the whole recent costly and embar-
rassing system of industrial legislation
staring in his legal face—Mr. Holman was
wrong. Not, only was printing cheaper 50
years ago, but, in my practical, professional
opinion it was usually better." Better value
for money—and better work for printing. 1
cannot, prove that; it is an opinion; and I.
restrict the, opinion to the printing of books,
and emphasise “usually.” The causes are
too various to recite here; the effect is clear
to my mind.
I admit exceptions to what I believe a
rule. I have superintended the printing of
more Australian books than I can conveni-
ently count—not fewer than six dozen large
and small; and, up to about 20 years ago,
I could sometimes get books as well and
cheaply printed in Sydney as. for instance.
Barton’s book, “The Poets and Prose Writers
of New South Wales,” printed by Gibbs,
Shallard and Co, in 1866. Ever since 20
years ago I have seen many books well
printed, but few, in my opinion, cheaply,
and few'quite as well as books printed from
hand-set type before the linotype. How
Could books be printed cheaply here in.
recent years? Printing costs have risen, in
20 years or fewer, certainly not less than
50 p.c. up to 100 p.e. When a printer,
excusing his portentous bill, tolls me 75
p.c., I agree with him. Journeymen printers
of 30 years ago, now employers, tell me
they cannot get for £5 a week jobbing-hands
to do the work they themselves did for £3
a week; and I believe they speak truly.
The application is this. Much of the
“industrial progress' 1 (so called) in the
printing track' has been gained (if it be a
gain) at, the expense of authors and with a
loss to Australian literature. Take the old-
fashioned pamphlets which I miss as a
means of literary expression; I would like
to read Mr. Holman’s reported opinions in
a pamphlet. Thirty years ago, a demy Bvo
pamphlet, with a colored cover, could be
printed in 500 copies for 10s. a page; now
we are asked up to £1 a page. Take a
young author’s book of poems. Thirty
years ago he could get up to 500 copies
of a slim book in a cloth cover for £3O.
Now he will be asked £5O to £6O. At the
low price he might recover his outlay in
sales; at the high price, his chance is
slimmer than his volume. Take an actual
case. 1 paid H. T. Dunn and Co., printers,
Sydney, £l2 18s. 6d. in 1906 for 620 copies
of a booklet for Victor Daley, which I con-
sider still an exceptionally good job of
printing. Crown Bvo, 48pp. and paper
cover; with an inset portrait on plate
paper, worked separately; and the printer
underlined “Thanks” in receipt, for the
money. 1 cannot duplicate the job in
Sydney to-day for double the price.
I do solemnly declare and testify that
on the average and continuously, during the
past. 30 years. I have nourished and main-
tained by literary labor not less than one
excellent, fellow-Australian printer and his
wife and family of four children, all com-
plete with their suburban cottage and a
full measure of domestic felicity—and have
been glad of the chance. And Ido verily
and sincerely believe that, if printing costs
had remained at the level of 30 years ago,
when my typical printer led his bride with
a halter (or his bride led him, or they led
one another) I could, and probably would,
and certainly might, have sustained or fed
two printers with a brace of wives (together,
not, separately) and half a dozen children
—and have been gladder.
Hence these thoughtful remarks in re-
buttal of W. A. Holm an as reported.
A.G. STEPHENS.
Fashions in Speech
“Country Fed” (R.P. 28 8/’29) blames
the State educational system for what he
calls “our slovenly speech,” and cites
teachers who use such expressions as “Tha’s
right.”
But analogous changes are occurring in
all other tongues. There are no fashions
which change more quickly than fashions in
'speech* and educational systems have little
or nothing to do with it. (Incidentally,
fashions in grammar change, too, though
more slowly. No pne worries about split
infinitives now; and consider “Our Father
which art in Heaven”; Lady Wishfort’s “I
won’t lie neither” in “The Way of the
World”; and Goldsmith’s “Thornhill whom
the host assured me was,” etc.)
“That’s right” is as legitimate as “Bless
you!” (i.e., “God bless you!”), or the
mediaeval “f faith.” Its grammatical name
is “prosiopesis.” Until a few 3mars ago
many English people who wished to express
the same thought said “Quite” i.e., (You
are) “quite” (right).
We are now taking a number of these
phrases from the talkies, and so is England;
and it is good patriotism to express abhor-
rence of them, and to doubt if Shakspeare’s
tongue (which, of course, has long ceased
to be ours) will survive the practice. “Say!”
and "Say, bo’!” are examples. Yet a very
stiff dose of the Imperial spirit is required
to make one see why these Americanisms
should be more objectionable than the
English “I say!” or “I say, old boy!” English
phrases of approval like “topping,” “cork-
ing.” “clinking,” “spiffing,” “ripping” and
“nailing” (in Australia “good-oh” or
“bosker”) appear to an unbiased eye no
more expressive, or less idiotic, than their
American equivalents. And in any case few
will live. In England, some years before
the war, anything admirable was “deevie”
(for “divine”); and in the U.S.A., after the
war, it was “the cat’s pyjamas.” Who talks
of things “being “deevie”' or “the cat’s
pyjamas” now?
fashions in pronunciation change as
rapidly as fashions in catchwords. Sam
Weller spoke quite differently from a
present-day Cockney, and so did Dickens’s
characters oi other classes. I picked up a
bobk recently called “Enquire Within,”
which was published in London when
Dickens was in his prime. It was, amongst
other things, a guide to genteel speech.
Readers were forbidden to say “been”;
“bin” was. correct. “By” and “my” were
pronounced “be” and “me,” and the “h”
was not sounded in words like “hospital.”
On the other hand the “h” was sounded to
distinguish words which we treat as homo-
phones (while—wile; when—wen, etc.). Not
long ago thousands of English people who
had been to the best schools and universities
were dropping their “g’s,” and at this time
it was .correct, to say “gel” or “gairl,” - but
not “girl.” “Country Fed” might call it
slovenliness, but he would be wrong, just
as he is wrong in attributing our mispro-
nunciations to slovenliness. Most mis-
pronunciations are deliberate and a source
of pride to those who perpetrate them.
One of the chief influences in the matter
is impatience with prPeisionists like him-
self—that is, with pedants and pedagogues.
In England and France accents, or rather
voices, have an immense significance. In
these old countries dialects came into being
in the days of slow transport, and a York-
shireman is still a “furriner” to a native
of Sussex, and a Breton to a native of
Normandy. Standing apart from provin-
cials (who . speak their own language as it
were, and are proud of it) and identifiable
immediately by his voice, is the man of
culture. As a rule, if lie is a -schoolmaster,
university professor, or anyone else who
earns his living by imparting culture; he
has a way of making the less learned feel
uncomfortable, and this is naturally re-
sented. In defiance of his rebukes the
illiterate become more and more slangy.
Members of the educated classes are also
affected. I knew a Parisian who had a
house in Normandy, and who, while there,
talked like the natives, pronouncing "vache”
“vale,” “peche” “pek” and so on. The same
thing happens in the country in England,
particularly amongst doctors, solicitors and
others who do business with farmers and
farmhands. The idea is to put the natives
at, their ease —a reason why some Sydney
barristers shock judges, but win verdicts,
by talking to juries in the pony-racing
language.
The educated also mispronounce, violate
the rules oi grammar, and use slang, not to
put others at their ease but to irritate the
pedants, and show the world that they have
nothing in common with such prigs. In
“Vanity Fair” old Sir Pitt Crawley asked
his butler, when the mutton was handed
round, “What, ship was it, Horrocks?”
Similarly, many English squires talk of
“huntin’ ” and “racin’ ”; of a “prad” (horse)
“pony” (£25) and “monkey” (£500). They
do it the more readily since no one is
deceived as to their class. The phraseology
may be that of a groom, but the voice
remains Eton and Oxford.
It is different in the new countries. There
are no dialects, in Australia, and no indi-
genous ones in the U.S.A.; and it is im-
possible to place Australians or Americans,
{Bed, Page continued on page 5.)


You can rely on "Truth in Advertising
Anthony
for all
in all Anthony Horderns advertisements.
The Sports Department at Anthony Horderns has long been renowned f ° r * e
completeness and quality of its stock. Requisites for
Quoits, Badminton, Bowls, Baseball, Basket Ball, Hockey, Polo, B,l l ,a rdv PootbaH,
Vigoro, Gymnasium Equipment, etc., are always m stock at “Famous Low Prices.
For Cricket,
Archie Jackson will personally advise you
Stuart Surridge Bats.
The famous Stuart Surridge “Sutcliffe” Bats.
Made to special design of Mr. H. Sutcliffe,
giving a perfect balance and driving power to
the blade. These bats are mostly used by the
metropolitan grade teams.
H. Sutcliffe 4 Rose Bats. Price ... .. < . 57/6
H. Sutcliffe 3 Rose Bats. Price 1 ; 48/6
H. Sutcliffe 2 Rose Bats. Price 40/-
id. Sutcliffe I Rose Bats; Price 33/6
Stuart Surridge. —First-class Matchi specially
selected. Price 42/6. Rapid Driver. Price, 37/6
Notts Driver. —This is a first-class bat, specially
made for hard wickets. Price 36/-
Country Driver. —Also a good match bat.
Price 30/-
“Hordernian.” —A good, serviceable bat, speci-
ally made for use on concrete or hard wickets.
Price ....... ...... "... 25/-
Oval Driver. Price 19/6
Archie Jackson Bats.
Manufactured by Stuart Surridge to a special
design by this cricketer.
Archie Jackson XXX. Price .. . . 55/-
Archie Jackson XX. Price 45/-
Archie Jackson X-. Price v .. . t , ... J15./-
Dye’s Bats.
Dye’s Special XXX Champion, autographed.
Specially made for Australian hard wickets.
Pri<;e 35/-
Bat Blades. Price 12/6, 17/6, 22/6
Duke’s Bats,
Duke’s Warren Bardsley. —This bat is made to
a special design by Mr. Bardsley, being fitted
with thick edges. A beautiful balance and
specially made for use in Australia.
4 Crown. Model de Luxe. Price 50/-
3 Crown. Extra special selected. Price.. 47/6
1 Crown. Selected. Price 39/-
Duke’s Record Driver. —An oiled bat, made for
use on concrete or hard wickets; treble spring.
Price . 32 / 6
Duke’s Star Drivers —Treble spring. Price, 27/6
Duke’s Special Club. —Selected. Price « . 35/-
Autograph Bats.
We stock bats made by first-class manufacturers
to the special design of, and autographed by,
auch famous players as Herbert Sutcliffe,
s W a rren Bardsley,. J. M. Taylor, F„ E. Woolley,.
• J. B. Hobbs, etc.
Other Cricket Needs.
Wicket-keeping-Gauntlets— '
Tan leather. Price,, pr. ‘ _ 14/6
Rubber faced. Price, pr ■• • 18 / b
First-quality, Match Wicket-keeping Gauntlets.
Prices 22/6, 27/6, 32/6, 39/6
-Leg Guards- . .. .•
Heavy canvas. Prices, pr. ... 12/6, 13/6
Heavy'White Canvas, 3-roll, with special side
pads. Prices, pr. . ...i 19/6 and 21/-.
. White leather guards. „
Prices, pr 19/®> 20/-, 27/6
Tan Leather Guards, Brices, pr., 15/6, 21/-
Wicket-keepers’ Guards.
Prices, pr. ■ 17/6, 19/6, 21/-
Mr. Jackson is now on the staff of
our Sports Department in order
that our customers may have the
finest expert advice available on all
matters pertaining to. cricket.
We invite Club Secretaries, Sports-
masters and Cricket enthusiasts
generally to confer with him on all
Cricket Problems.
Golf
Enthusiasts
r
l
Every style of Golf Bag may be seen in our
Sports Department, at prices ranging from Tan
Canvas, 12/6, to Leather Bags. Price, 60/-.
Clubs by famous makers are widely represented.
We quote two fine examples:
Aberdeen Golf Co. “Matchless” STAINLESS
Graded Irons. Driving Irons, Mid Irons, Mashies,
Mashie Niblicks, Niblicks, Putters.
Price, each 14/6
Sterling Golf Co. “Monarch” STAINLESS Max-
well Graded Irons. Driving Irons, Mid Irons,
Mashies, Mashie Niblicks, Niblicks, Putters.
Price, each 17/6
w
and for Tennis
Values unsurpassed in Australia are offered
throughout the Sports Department. Many other
models than those mentioned by the same estab-
lished makers always in stock.
Alexander “Master” Racket, 75/-. The finest
product of the tennis world, beautifully finished,
perfectly balanced. Made of 4 laminations of
English ash, six gut binding on frame, and best
English gut. Price 75/-
Kent’s “Stafford” Racket, 63/-. This racket
has an ash overlay. One of Kent s latest
models, rounded frame, specially strengthened
shoulders, strung to high tension; Price, 63/-
Spalding’s “Top-Flite” Racket, 80/-. This
racket was specially designed for the lightning
game of to-day, a faster bat for faster play.
The Top-Flite is the fastest tennis racket ever
made, and a favorite with the foremost players.
Strung ?t high tension with the best gut.
Price . . .-. 80
Spalding’s -“Champion” is excellent valu
05 n>
Spalding’s “Universal” is a new
model produced this season. Blue
inlay with blue-and-white bindings,
strung with good serviceable gut.
Price 25 /-
Slazenger’s “Queen.” Rounded
frame of finest selected English ash,
single strung with best gut. Extra
trebling in both directions and
special reinforcing of shoulders a
feature. Price 75/-
Slazenger’s popular “Special Cham-
pion.” Fine value. Price . . 60/-
Waibow’s “Savoy” Racket. Frame
made from selected English ash.
Oval frame has strip of rawhide
inserted at wedge and inner
shoulders. Handle of Tasmanian
Huon pine. Guaranteed for Junior
Players. Price 24/-
Walbow’s “The Australian.” Scien-
tifically designed, perfectly balanced.
Price 45 /'
An excellent, profusely illustrated Catalogue of all Sports Requirements will be sent Post Free
----- Department—Second Floor. We pay Carriage.
Application.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
ANTHONY HORDER N & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
’Phone: M 2401,
Day and Night.


w.
%
2
m
rr.
7
/
&
r\
0L ?
'2>.
&k
\
THE CHALLENGER
HUDSON
SUPER
ESSEX
SIX
SUPER
. SIX
Combining fine car features with
popular price
With its 70-mile -an-hour perform-
ance, beautiful colours, variety of
body styles and matchless riding and
steering ease, Essex the Challenger
brings to motorists expensive - car
features at popular prices. Its many
costly advancements and its peerless
Super-Six performance account for
the approval it wins from keen judges
of motor car values. We shall gladly
place Essex the Challenger at your
disposal so that you may pit it against
anything that motordom has to offer.
Essex Prices at Sydney
Five Balloon Tyres Standard Equipment
Tourer (Australian Body) £290
Standard Sedan (Australian Body) 365
Standard Roadster (Australian Body) 290
Coupe (Imported Body) 385
Convertible Coupe (Imported Body) 395
Town Sedan (Imported Body, with Bumper Bars) . . 420
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Stret, Sydney.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth,
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
MOTORS LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
H. C. HEATHORN 8C CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER


b
NATIONAL PARK
CALI FORNIA
w/m.
■
m,
S*
«
Y osemite —California’s
wonderful playground
—hewn in the heart of the
Majestic Sierra Nevadas, gorgeously
sculptured, flashingly colourful.
f
And here, indifferent to the passing of
centuries, stand the world’s biggest trees,
the oldest living things on the world’s
surface to-day—the wonderful Sequoia
Gigantea. The noblest specimens of
these magnificent woodland giants are
grouped in the Mariposa, Merced and
Tuolumne groves, mainly within the
boundaries of Yosemite.
America abounds with these .bigger,
greater and vaster monuments to both
Nature and man —a veritable treas-
ure-trove to the traveller by the
Matson-Oceanic Line.
FARES: Sydney to London, single, £129,
first class throughout; £ll7/10/-, first class
to New York, and second class on Atlantic
Steamers. Other fares in proportion.
Round the World, £245 first class, £lBO/10/-
second class, via America, return via Suez,
or vice versa.
S.S. SIERRA
S.S. SONOMA
S.S. VENTURA
SAILING EVERY THIRD
SATURDAY
Special Excursion Fares to Honolulu issued all the year round.
Call or write for descriptive pamphlets , fare lists, sailing dates and other information.
im,
i
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
Local Agents: Mcllwaith McEacharn Ltd., 94-96 William St Melbourne; 117-119 King
William St.. Adelaide; Fremantle, Perth , Albany; Howard Smith Ltd., Brisbane, Townsville
culturally, by their voices. A millionaire
who has been to a grammar school may
have the same voice as his chauffeur who
has been to a State school. But there is
the same opposition as in England and
France to the efforts ot pedants to stand-
ardise pronunciation, and keep new words
out of the language, and it takes the form,
chiefly, of scorn of the so-called “Oxford
bleat?’ This is why, though Australia keeps
importing English masters lor its grammar
schools. English professors for ils universi-
ties, English peers for its Government
Houses, and English actors tor its theatres,
what Oxford calls “the Australian voice”
becomes more marked every generation.
There is no reason why “Country Ped”
or anybody else should be appalled, apart,
from the futility of getting upset about the
inevitable. An indirect way of obtaining
relief is to spend a minute or two with
the possessor of an ineradicable Australian
voice who is trying to turn it into an Eng-
lish one. Not longer, owing to the local
prejudice against murder.
JOHN DALLEY.
Coal!
Continuation of the industrial disturbance
on New South Wales coalfields gives a
special interest to The Economics of Aus-
tralian Coal, by F. R. E. Mauldon (Mel-
bourne University Press and Macmillans).
But the book would be a centre of interest
at any time; for, viewing them quite
aloofly, without any tinge of partisanship,
our coalfields, if they are not so prolific
of coal as some would wish, are quite alone
as a source of dramatic action. As this
author points out, no other single industry
in the Commonwealth can equal the record
of coalmining, either in the contribution
it makes through disputes to the aggre-
gate of the idle working-days of each year,
or in the consistency with which it can be
expected to repeat its general experience year
by year. Of 3701 industrial disputes lead-
ing to stoppages in Australia from 1920 to
1927, not less than 70 per cent, were in
coalmining, nearly all in N.S.W. In 1924,
a year in which the industry reached a
record of production, there were no less
than 482 disputes in the industry, involv-
ing a loss of 516,137 working days. The
totals lor the whole State that year were
520 disputes and 611,135 days lost. And
something like that happens every year.
Mr. Mauldon, who began his inquiries
into the industry eight years ago, seeks to
find the explanation of these and kindred
happenings, not in the surface ephemera that
issues from union bosses or owner bosses and
gets into the newspapers, but deep down in
he heart of the industry itself, in conditions
raid circumstances only vaguely understood
by the normal onlooker, and not understood
at all by the partisan. He believes that the
root-causes of the never-ending stoppages in
coalmining lie in the nature of mining
itsell and its environmental influences upon
the mine-workers.
A colliery is like a magnified antbed in tlie
making, with pairs of workers toiling in isolation from
one another. The unit of team work is the pair rather
than the group. The minds of the miner and his
mate have of necessity to be exercised jointly with
the ways and means whereby the coal may be
wrought.... But such mental activity of a mentally
active class of craftsmen by no means represents
lhe full exercise of thought. The miners become
ruminative by habit.... Mining communities live
in relative isolation, even in big towns, where the
non-mining population is by no means insignificant.
This in itself tends to strengthen exclusiveness and
self-consciousness, from which touchiness and com-
bativeness arc readily provoked. Such proclivities
easily express themselves in the mass meeting or in
the lodge. The individual mine-worker, indeed, is
never free from the: dominance of mass ideas and
mass feeling. These contribute an unconscious bias
to his judgments, so that whatever individuality he
does express is limited to the range set by the
collective over-mind. This is a key to Lhe under-
standing of much of the behavior which is a per-
petual enigma to those unfamiliar with mining.
The perennial disputes, he finds, arise
from a conflict of mental states. The miners,
as a whole, “are probably no more selfish
than the owners—or than most men every-
where: nor can a general indictment be
sustained against the owners as ogres of
oppression.” “What is needed to give these
attitudes something like a common polar-
ity,” he adds, “is first a great flood of
light upon the real motives, hopes and fears
which impel each side, in the face of its
economic difficulties, to action inimical to
the other, so that there may follow a
recognition of really common bonds and a
new patience for the rational ordering of
rights and responsibilities in the industry.”
In preliminary chapters the writer deals
with the Commonwealth’s coal resources
(4000 to 5000 years’ supply at present
rates), mining technique (up to 70 per cent,
of the available coal is actually lost in
mining), coal owners and their affiliations
and ditto miners, the dwindling export
trade, with some proposals for the present
and the future. In spite of the carefulness
with which most of the analysis is made,
none of the going is really heavy, and the
story is studded with interesting things, as,
for example, the record of the miners’
opposition to machinery, which has a
remarkably primitive flavor. Objection to
machines is taken ostensibly on the grounds
of safety, but the real grounds are the fear
of mechanisation as a displacer of labor.
This Erewhonian resistance has prevented
the appearance in Australian mines of the
mechanical conveyors in use in Great
Britain, Germany, the United States and
elsewhere, and also ke'eps out American
devices, the introduction of some of which
“is virtually to supplant the picks and
shovels of from 15 to 20 miners.”
After an exhaustive inquiry the writer
reaches the decision that the incapacity of
the industry to settle its own problems
justifies the intervention of the State as a
leader out of the impasse. It is futile, he
says, to object, on vague principles to State
intervention, for in no country where the
State has withheld its regulative hand has
the coal industry resolved its own problems.
Meanwhile the war goes on.
A Satchel of Books
Sir domain and the Green Knight (Dent).
A modern version by S. Q. Andrew of an
unusual Arthurian story told in alliterative
verse. It is a -specious piece of literature
—monotonous in form, blit interesting in sub-
stance and as a survival. Male chastity is
tempted and triumphs.
Modern European Art, by Ernest IT. R.
Codings (Palmer). A swift, sweeping glance
over the principal painters, sculptors, archi-
tects and other artistic craftsmen who have
influenced or are influencing modern cultural
life on the Continent. Rather too sketchy
to be helpful criticism, but a handy reference
book.
Between Earth and Sky, by Konrad Bor-
covici (Cape; Roycroft Library, Sydney).
An addition to the Travellers’ Library. Ber-
coviei writes chiefly of European gypsies, and
from these, as A. E. Coppard finely puts it, he
“has caught the rich tones of a time that has,
no doubt, long since faded, tones, that recall
by some queer but pleasant misdirection the
rural and innocent poetry of Blake, and
aquatints by Gainsborough, agreeably
musty.” The people, however, are much
more' earthly than that may suggest—they
are picturesque, romantic, but none the less
living humans.
Psychology and Education, by C. R-
Mcßae (Whitcombe and Tombs). The edu-
cationist must regard as all-important not
the subjects iu which instruction is given,
but the subjects to whom instruction is
given • not the stimulus, but the Individual.
On this foundation Dr. Mcßae, distinguished
vou'ng Victorian psychologist, carefully builds
a triple-partition structure. Illustrated with
diagrams, serviceably indexed, and above all
written with feeling and sincerity, the work
can be dommended to all teac-heijs who
nourish a desire to be fair to the child and
to the profession.
The Letters of Peter Plymley, Selected
Writings, Sermons and Speeches, by Sydney
Smith (Dent). Admirably edited, with a
critical introduction and notes, by G. C.
Heseltine, this comprehensive reprint is put.
forward partly to mark the centenary of
the Catholic Emancipation Act, incidentally
helped into being by the spirited opposition
to injustice and oppression made by the
famous Canon Residentiary of St. Paul’s.
The volume should he especially welcome
because, as the publishers have left Sydney
Smith alone for many years, it is difficult
to get him or any part of him in clean, fresh,
readable type.
Carlyle to Threescore-and-ten, by David
Alee Wilson (Kegan Paul; Dymocks). Of
peculiar Australian interest iu this the fifth
book of Mr, Wilson’s great six-volume Life
of Carlyle are the chapters covering the
friendship between Henry Parkes and the
Chelsea sage, begun by a letter of introduc-
tion given to Parkes by Gavan Duffy. Car-
lyle’s conversation with Duffy also gives the
volume special interest, but it and the rest
of the Life do not have to depend upon
any suc-h narrow appeal., In the minute
detail of its contents the work perpetuates
its topic, and its size and breadth give
further reality to the portrayal.
.Joy in Work , by Henri de Man (George
Allen and Unwin). Of unusual interest in
an altogether interesting book are the results
the author achieved by inducing about four-
score persons of varied occupation to submit
reports on their work, their feelings to-
wards it, and so on. From this Evidence
De Man indicates sundry reasons why the
worker really does joy in his work, even
though his leaders may assert that lie does
not. " He finds that the social aspirations of
the workers, even of the socialist workers,
cannot he exhaustively summed up under the
catchword “anti-capitalism.” The old
struggle for the rights of man, taking on a
new form as a struggle for joy in work, has
shifted the problem to some extent. The
acceptance of technical advance, the author
also finds, need not involve the renunciation
of joy in work. The specific cases dealt
with are German, but the hook has a univer-
sal ring.
The Coat Without Seam, by Maurice
Baring (Heinemann). The attempt is made,
as in so many other books by this fine
writer, to present life as the inconsequential
and adramatic thing it is. as a rule. Part
of the method is to allow the characters
to express the old and obvious thoughts. There
is a discussion on courts-martial which has
taken place for centuries past, wherever a
few lawyers and soldiers with a taste for
platitude have met. Elsewhere the view is
expressed that there is "something so final
about death!” Christopher Trevehen, whose
muddled life is the “Coat Without Seam”
which is mended by death and the con-
solations of the Roman Catholic Church, is
a good and lovable drifter, and there are
half a dozen other carefully studied and
vitally alive characters in the book. A quiet,
sincere work, which deals chiefly with
religion, and with leisured and highly culti-
vated people who are equally at home iu
London. Paris and Rome.
+
“Veronal”: It is forgotten—in fact, hardly
known, at any rate to Australians-—that one
L. Koch, a German, has to his credit a
monumental monograph on the Australian
spiders, This great, book, “Die Araehuiden
Australians,” is in two quarto vois. of over
1700 pages, with an atlas containing 147
plates. It saw the light at Nuremberg
between 1871 and 1879. The book is now
very rare, but copies offer occasionally at
about £l5. So far as Australian and British
arachnologists are concerned our web-
spinners still await their Hotner.
Answers to Correspondents.
Xo notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Xante and address must appear on the MS. Xo liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: arid no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
R.G.; Good in spots; but you don’t make
us believe it’s true R.J.M.: Half-way through
you put up a sign to say what'the. end is to be.....
C. K urn-haw: Bones, with no marrow in them....
N.L.D.: “Magic” is too hackneyed in its phrasing.
Watch out for that.... W.R. P.: Poor use made of
good material... .R.F.L.G.: It failed only on the
third reading A.Q., Powder Monkey and others:
Quite right; Scorfield put .his Australian-artillerymen
in puttees because they looked cheaper. He was
with the Engineers himself... .H.D.: Neither touches
the true string... .2.0.: “Joy Limited”: —very
limited... .W.T.: Gently shown the dobr.^.,S.A.:
“Wind on a Winter’s Night” quite a change after
the prevailing spring zephyrs.... J.A.H.: Says no-
thing at all worth saying. E.11.M.: The stamp’s
at work... .T.J.S.: “Dreams —realms” wins the
annual won’t-rhyme medal... .V.R.: Then it should
surprise you more to learn that many agree with
y0u .... J. W.: All miss; no interest in ’em....
W.I’.H.: No doubt true of one movie; far from true
of them all .G.K.S.: “Oh, Mr. Bruce, what have
you done?” Better ask Little Billy F.E.C.: No
grain in “The Mailee”.... Ruvon: Too young to be
impaled here. .. .R.R.McG.: Both readable, but not
quite suitable,.. .T.S.McN.: “Dichotomy” ditched.
. ...A.A.: Good thing you didn’t send a deposit
with “The Perfect Politician”... .J.R.R.: We don’t
post criticism. Present verse far too sobful....
S.VV.K.: Try a suburban paper... .E.0.P.: A gusher,
but not of the right oil T.A.H.: A laboring of a
line. .. .J.H.: Life as a game of billiards ruined a
good chance bv poor w0rk....R.1.F.: “The Lover”
heartlessly rejected.... Accrspades: No trumps....
W.l’.: Has been better done. .. .H.8.D.: “Now with
hueful panting daylight glows adieu.” A palpitating
line W.: Touching stanza from “The Orange
Tree”
Dad gave you to my fiance Bill
When you were just a seedling still
And said my boy plant this in the ground
And now it’s a tree of which we are proud
It bears a fine large yellow orange
The children likes better than blomonge.
....Bungle: “The Unforgivable Crime” brings sen-
tence of sudden death. . . .McDookie: The child is not
original E.W.: It might be a fair defence of the
dog, but it’s a poor pretence of a poem... .L.C.M.:
Candid opinion asked for is unprintable A.T.:
Sorry to hear it E.H.W.: Fact that Australia
wants a big man to lead it doesn’t make much of
a verse P.C.U.: Try again a few years hence....
J.M.S.: Small beer, and no head on it....A.W.:
Not badly written, but loosely constructed.... 1.D.:
Red Indian yarn a red horror L.J.G.: Not quite.
.Nomdy Ploom: No flowers for Finnegan’s funeral.
. .E.W.C.: Interesting as a bush incident, but
incident only A.M.8.: It might suit a daily
J.P.: Five columns of a mystery story that
ends up in “a heap of greeny grey ashes”
A. 8.: Would not appeal to Australian readers... .
Headway: Not enough to bring it into port....
N.0.E.: Such a cargo of sin and sorrow!... .D.J.G.:
Very weak ending-... .Demosthenes Hug-gins: The
Huggins swamps the Demosthenes P.K.l*.: Sorry,
can. t pluck the roses... .Sunset: No daybreak... .
! Cant find a place for the history of Bridget.
... ■ H.C.McH.: Well worked up, but interest too
limited... .C.M.C.: “Nine Miles from Gundagai”
was written by Jack Moses and is included in his
collection “Beyond the Oily Gates”... .E.P.M.: (1)
“0. Henry: a Biography,” In O. A. Smith. (2)
Where you are unknown to (he paper it is advisable
lo do so 1.F.T.: The Department of Navigation
and the Mitchell Library, Sydney, have no record of
a ship of that name arriving in the ’fifties....
1‘.0:5.: “Benedictine Pioneers in Australia,” by H.
N. Birt, and “Dawn of Catholicism in Australia,”
by E. M. O’Brien.... E.S.: It is a Latin tag ascribed
to Claudian meaning “Nothing is rougher than a
low-bred man when he has risen to a height”....
Dramofilm: No hope for anyone who tries to rhyme
“Shaw” with “more” and “frauds” with “boards.”
. ...C.0.D.: We’re not taking delivery.... 8.F.C.:
Blariky feeble composition... .E.G.: A bit too lumpy.
I.A.: “The Voice of Minne-Ma-Ha” has been
scalped by a vicious paleface. .. .8.1N5.: Can’t you
spring poets skirmish up a few new ideas?....
E.N.R.: “Railways” is a good idea that hops
in treatment... .C.R.8.: Trucked to the Spring
Ode incinerator... .Pussy Willow: “Inky Way”
unusually murky... .T.W.N. : All fail.... L.C.:
“Refuge” is now a refugee... .A.N.1.: W.p.b. groused
a bit, but took it.... Eye de D.: “Out There" —
direction perfect.... C.G.: It must have been a
monotonous day to inspire all that... .C.F.: Verse
“For the Bulletin” stopped just short of the final
“in”.... .Sylvester: Doesn’t stir interest.... 8.5.0.:
Have petitioned the Government to declare spring an
open season for bard shooting. .. .J.H.: Unsuitable.
... .R. 5.8.: Pretty jolty... .F.M.: Got rather tired of
all the boys.'.. .A.C.deC.: All been said too often.
. ...T.T.: Counted out, but it put up a good fight.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.E.: That jest first appeared in the Sodom jISD
Gomokkaii Times. .. .N.A.C.: “Ascent of Mt. Cook”
met an avalanche. ... W.R.: Lymphatic lovers;
jaundiced moon; mauve sky... .K.M.G.: Not keen
on ice-skaters with toy-balloon heads... .C.S.D.:
Got toothache, has she? She certainly lias dropsical
legs and a withered arm... .N.T.: Get over that
weakness for stale puns... .H.P.: Too ghoulish..,.
R.L.: Gargoyles on a morgue must have inspired
you to draw those heads... .W.M.: No “lightning-
sketches,” please—we don’t judge with a stopwatch
in our hand.... N.G.: “Vignettes” not quite what
we want; have another shot J.8.W.: Strive for
a bolder line G.A.K.: You’re above the average
.—until you try to draw the human form....
J.C.8.: More like rag dolls than damsels... .A.D.:
Not at all bad for a youngster; lessons should
improve you greatly H.W.C.: No market for
feeble malapropisms F. 5.8.: No; try when you’re
older.


9
mu
s m
:
■ft
% •<
n
m
: n
ft—
iP
••ft :
m
'%.^&***
y I
■■■■
Hi
'■' Hi
lift
1
■
Hi 11
>" ' -vvfiS
C»78»
ARBI
■
Iftjifti/v;
■ .
hhhhpl»
ft I
iH
.
Mil
•I'i : v
*
/•
ft
ft
:
ft %
HH
; -1 n
Hi m
l ; 'ft ’. -I; ,:■■ /• ■•
■
I '";'''
■\ .„•■ ••:
I
m
ft-'-' .ft
: >ft ;
■I
■
4
mmm*,
8
4:
■
:ft ;: ~,..
-ft . ftftSftft ft 'ft ft
HHK mSKKBMKBBSK^S^
'ftft
:.
m
ft
ft
■
M!
ISBr
Bi
:'ftft
■*—‘T
.
■
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin.
Vol. 50. —No. 2588.
September 18, 1929.
“ALONE I DONE IT!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
81-i George Street, Sydney; Box 252188.
Victoria: llJi-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 21/9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
\V estralia : 3,1 Barrack Street, Perth.
Eondon : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Regent 5796.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 1,5.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
•'<’ months, 7s.
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: lOos., id. United Kingdom •• joz. to 10oz., I'd.;
each additional 1,0 z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: l,oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
BED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
PRINTING AND LITERATURE—
By A. G. Stephens .. .. .. .. 2
FASHIONS IN SPEECH, by John Dailey 2, 5
Coal Quarrels in Australia .. 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . . . f,
the front-page CARTOON, BY LEASON .. 7
EDITORIALS .. .. .. .. 8 , 9
Making ’Em Sorry—Billy Hughes on
“Janus & Co.” 8
BIRTH OF FEDERAL ARBITRATION .. 8
LIONS LED BY ASSES—WERE THE HIGH
COMMANDS COMPETENT ? . . . . 8
Would it Pay to Scrap Canberra Now?
By Randolph Bedford, Member of the
Queensland Parliament . . . . . . 8
DIGGER SETTLERS IN VICTORIA .. .. !)
THE HORSE-BREEDING BUSINESS . . . . 9
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 9
POLITICAL POINTS 10
POVERTY POINT 11
A Street Corner Study by Percival • 11
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. .. ... 13-
SOCIETY (with drawings). . .. .. 14, 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. .. 16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
AUSTRALIAN GAS LIGHT 18
FEDERAL MUTUAL INSURANCE .. ..18
HENRY BERRY 18
BENNETT & FISHER 18
GEORGE FARMER 20
GEO. A. BOND’S RECONSTRUCTION.. .. 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 23, 25
Free Service Department .. 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 32
THE SPIKED ROLLER 28
ROCK PHOSPHATE IN STOCK LICKS .. 28
CULTURE OF CITRUS TREES 28
FARM QUESTIONS ANSWERED . . . . :J2
SMOKE-Oli :j4
PEN AND PICTURE 37
MARY PIOKFORD IN THE TALKIES .. 37
ART SHOWS 37
THE INKY WAY 37
SPORTING (illustrated) .. .. ..39, 41, 42
Randwick Races .. .. .. 39
Moonee Valley Races .. .. ..39
BUSINESS, ROBBERY . . .. .. . . 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER .45
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 48
OTHER CAPITALS' GOSSIP 50
“Paradise Plumes” . . 47, 51, 52
COMPLETE SHORT STORIES—
“BLUFF,” by Alys Brown . . . . 55, 57
“SINPYUGYI,” by C. R. E. Childers.. 57, 58
VERSE.—By C. 11. Winter, .1. Anthony
Pepper Fora Cross .. .. . . 55, 58
Week
GERMANY TO-DAY.—What Ernest Osborne found
in his wanderings this year.
“TWO LIVES,” another very striking tale by
Margaret Fane and Hilary Lofting.
“ANINA,” a story of a quick marriage and a
great surprise, by H. E. Burrows.
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1929.
MAKING ’EM SORRY.
The Bruce-Page Government was beaten
by one vote on a vital amendment to its
Maritime Industries Bill, and the Common-
wealth is to have another general election
—the second within a twelvemonth.
When the House divided on the second
reading the Government had a majority of
four. On W. M. Hughes’s amendment,
which sought to delay the operation of the
measure until it had been ratified by refer-
endum or general election, Marks, the
moving-picture member, and McWilliams,
the Liberal-Nationalist-Cocky-Independent,
crossed the floor. Even then the Minis-
terialists would have won had they put
forth their whole strength; but Groom, the
Speaker, would not, and Bayley, the Chair-
man, could not, vote. Groom, hotly criti-
cised by his party, pleads that he was guided
by House of Commons precedents. House
of Commons precedents are all very well
if all parties recognise them, but in these
cases the Labor party doesn’t. No Labor
Speaker withholds his vote when a Labor
Government is in danger.
The general attitude of the seceders
from the Ministerial ranks was that Federal
arbitration is more to them than any Gov-
ernment. Maxwell may be given credit
for sincerity (though it is strange that the
member for Fawkner should not have
learned from the mob picketing and basher
gangs of the timber-workers’ strike that
the Commonwealth imperils itself by retain-
ing a system which it cannot enforce); but
it is doubtful whether any of the others
cared two straws for Federal arbitration.
Some of them have condemned it in terms
as strong as any used by its avowed oppo-
nents. “Vanity made the Revolution,”
NAroLEON said ; vanity and jealousy caused
the revolt at Canberra.
One of the Adelaide dailies has got hold
of a letter in which Hughes opened his
heart to Dicky Foster, the lately defeated
member for Wakefield. Referring to the
two-headed Ministry which he was elected
to support, Hughes said:—
“This combination must go. ... With
God's help I’ll make some of them very sorry
for themselves. For the greater part of last
Parliament I had other fish to fry, but now
I’m quite free, and, given decent health, I’ll
make our friends Janus and Co. sit up.”
Genuine or not, the letter expresses what
has been in the former dictator’s mind for
six years. All that time he has been willing
to wound but afraid to strike. He saw his
chance, on the arbitration issue, when the
lobbies were populous with union secre-
taries, and he struck. The idea was that
the Governor-General would send for the
author of the victorious amendment, and
that he, a Protectionist of sorts, would
form a Government with the Foreign-
traders Mann and Stewart for lieutenants,
some of the Nationalists being relied upon
to accept portfolios and the rest to accept
the accomplished fact. But, greatly to the
little gentleman’s discomfiture, it didn’t
work out that way. By the irony of events,
Dominion status, for which Hughes takes
most of the credit, intervened. One of his
queer followers is railing at the Governor-
General for granting a dissolution; but
Hughes himself can’t join in, much as lie
might like to. He forgot Dominion status,
as Lord Randolph Churchill .'forgot
Goschen. But his enemies have not for-
gotten what he wrote in his “Splendid
Adventure”: “In future when a Dominion
Government recommends a dissolution, the
Governor-General must grant it as a matter
of course.”
THE BIRTH OF FEDERAL
ARBITRATION.
ẁ
of wages and conditions for Smith and
Brown became a Federal matter.
This was a mischievous imposition, not
only upon the Federal Constitution, but
upon both the States and the people
without whose individual approval the
Constitution could not have been brought
into being. It was an imposition
upon the States because power was
seized under it to completely take
out of the control of State Governments
and their officials the control of State rail-
ways and all other labor-employing works;
and such a proposition would certainly have
been scorned by the States had it been ex-
pressly incorporated.
The Bruce-Pages thus did not seek to
taike from the Commonwealth anything
which it had honestly and straightforwardly
acquired. What they did seek was to restore
to the States power and authority of which
they had been defrauded; they sought to
do the honest thing and put the Common-
wealth precisely where the framers of the
Constitution intended to leave it. And
there was all the greater justification for
doing this because departure from the plain
intention of the Constitution has done in-
calculable mischief and is one of the chief
factors threatening national disaster.
LIONS LED BY ASSES.
ẃ
CRAZY CITY.
As I rode into Canberra on a despairing
little horse in the winter of 1914, the wind
from the bleak hills whistled between the
pony’s ears and filled my blood with icicles.
All the living things I saw were goose-
fleshed. At Ainslie a. few half-frozen hens
drove before the gale, their hind feathers
blown indecently; two horses despairingly
turned their sterns to the wind; a dog
whimpered in the lee of a fence. For my
sins I stayed three days at Canberra, find-
ing polar-bear weather on a bleak rise which
that kindly optimist King O’Malley had
named Capitol Hill. Polar-bear weather
on the Cotter, at the powerhouse,
and wherever foolishness had made a
building in this place which should have
been left to the only things that fit it—
the wind and the sleet! I had expected
to find something to lift up the heart, be-
cause I. stood on the foundations of the
home of the nation; and all the desire 1
felt was to capture the poet who wrote
“Beautiful Snow,” and rub icebergs in the
miscreant’s whiskers until he died.
In 1929 I revisited Canberra in February,
when, if ever, it should have had a fine
climate. But if it were a suitable situation
naturally, human stupidity would have
burked its possible success. The originally
accepted plan may have been loaded with
faults; but the departmental plan that
superseded it was crazy—impossible. No
waste or saving of money could make
Canberra an ideal home for the nation;
the administration of the altered scheme has
increased the waste of the millions and
left it as far as ever from the ideal.
The wasteful spending has produced the
craziest of capitals. Here is probably the
first attempt in the world to build a city
from the circumference to the centre; the
suburbs coming first and the alleged “city”
following. There are less than 8000 people
in Canberra, and there are 22 suburbs for
them to be lonely in. The civic centre
and Ainslie are at least three miles from
the nearest residential centre; and there
are more distant villages until the 25-mile
radius is reached. It all means ridiculously
high cost of living, the high cost to be
borne by Australia. For these 8000 people
thrown to these wide peripheries, the neces-
sary water supply and sewerage have to be
made big enough for a city like Melbourne.
Thus the cost of most public utilities is
increased as much as a hundred-fold beyond
the actual necessity. Already shops and
houses are vacant, and holders of many
leases and buildings are wondering how
they can let go this live wire without much
pain.
The Commission that built Canberra
and is now leaving it to its difficulties
should not be called as a witness at any
inquiry. Its place is in the dock; not for
graft, but for negligence, for wild excur-
sions of grandeur like to those of man}’
an English mining company that has given
Australia a bad name by spending fifty or a
hundred thousand on the surface while its
deepest shaft stayed at a hundred feet or so.
The “temporary” Parliament House, esti-
mated to cost under a quarter of a million,
has cost twice as much. In all more than
nine millions have been spent with the
abandonment of a drunken sailor.
Meantime the layout of the suburbs has
resulted in snobbery in the Public Service.
When all of different grades lived in Mel-
bourne they were so separated by circum-
stance that society could not grade itself
on the contours of salaries. But, in this
collection of villages pretending to be a
city, social importance ranks itself by salary,
and when that happens in the homes, cam-
araderie is affected in the service. And
naturally the Commission governing the
city becomes as autocratic as Price on
Norfolk Island. A newspaper man tells
me that when the Commission meets the
waiting journalists a flunkey opens the
inner door as if he were announcing God.
and on the Commission’s entrance the con-
gregation arises as to the Benediction.
The distance of the shopping centre from
the residence areas means increased cost
of commodities; but the postal employees
who asked for a Canberra allowance of
15s. or so a week were turned down. The
imported Governor-General, who has resi-
dences maintained for him in Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Canberra, and who visits
Canberra as rarely as possible, draws a
Canberra allowance of £2OOO above his
salary of £lO,OOO.
I believe that it would pay handsomely
to scrap Canberra even now and write off
the cost. If it bleeds Australia for £2OOO
a day in allowances and abnormal expenses,
that is equal to a capital debt of £14,000.000.
If we can save this 14 millions by scrapping
eight or nine, it is good business. When a
Commission dredges the scandals of Can-
beri’a, the main inquiry should revolve
around this point.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Calamity Carriers.
Australia is familiar with demonstrations
which are a glorification on the one hand
of the class-war and on the other of
international peace or disarmament—a
double-barrelled policy which was adopted
by the anarchists of France 35 years ago
The only country in which it ever gained
a footing was Russia; the efforts made to
establish it in Germany, Italy and Eng-
land have had ruinous results to the
workers. It lasted in Russia from 19ff
to 1921, when Lenin re-introduced capital-
ism with his New Economic Policy.
Trotsky is an exile solely because he per-
sists in expressing the out-of-date views of
an Australian Red. Russia is now the least
militant of nations industrially, and one of
the most militant internationally. Stalin.
the Georgian farmer’s son who ousted
Trotsky first from power and next from
Russia, has no patience with anti-capitalism.
He believes in getting British, American
and German syndicates to take up mining
and other concessions, in fraternising with
financiers at Geneva, and in creating an


LOOKING FOR A BETTER ’OLE.
efficient army to protect the nation’s
wealth and possibly acquire the wealth of
other nations.
The European Powers all recognise, since
the war showed what could be done in
the way of pulling Demos’s leg, that when
revolutionary or any other propaganda is
allowed to proceed unchecked it produces
results. In consequence, every Govern-
ment which has apostles of Upheaval takes
steps to discipline them. Britain gaols
native-born agitators for sedition after
they have spoken once or twice, and deports
alien agitators. The French, Germans and
Italians suppress inflammatory speech-
makers, and the Russians exile or execute
theirs. Australia is the only country of
importance in which a general strike, or
strikes which are equivalent to a general
strike, can be publicly advocated without
danger. Society here is organised on an
even more intricate basis than it is in, say,
France. It would not need a general strike
to starve our coastal cities of milk, and
cause the deaths of thousands of children.
A transport strike would do it—even a rail-
way strike, if it arrived suddenly enough.
N.S.W.’s coal strike has caused more loss
and suffering in three months than all the
depredations of the criminal classes in 10
years. We know as much about these dis-
asters, and the wav they are started and
kept going, as we do about typhoid. We
isolate typhoid-carriers. Why in the name
of logic not isolate class-war carriers?
4.
A Crumbling Party.
The visible crumbling of the British Liberal
party, which isn’t much of a party now at
its best, is taken by some to mean that
Lloyd George has become an incubus and
a sign of misfortune. Also the wonderful
Liberal party fund seems more discredit
than help.
There have always been party funds,
and they have been raised, to a very great
extent, through the sale of titles by the
crowd in power and the sale of promised
titles by the crowd out of power. The bird
in the hand being more valuable than the
fowl in the scrub, the crowd in power has
the best of the deal; but no previous
Prime Minister worked this oracle with
such an eye to the future as Welsh George.
In the Coalition Ministry of 1916-1922
George was Prime Minister, though Bonar
Law’s party supplied most of the fighting
force. In six years this composite body
created about 95 peers. As for new baronets
it is a labor to count them.
The pile thus accumulated was, on the face
of things, a Coalition fighting fund, but it
stood in the name of the Prime Minister,
and when the Coalition broke and he went
out of office it still stood there. It is
called the Liberal fund, and so long as
there is a Liberal party with Lloyd George
as leader it will apparently be his to dis-
pose of. The amount is understood to run
into millions—how many of them is uncer-
tain, but four or five have been mentioned.
When the money was dealt out economi-
cally the once overwhelming Liberal party
returned 40 members in a House of 615.
When it was dealt out more lavishly, and
513 Liberal candidates went to the poll
the victories were between 50 and 60. Even
this disappointed handful seems to think it
is on board a boat which is sailing nowhere,
and to doubt both its leader and his
methods.
4
The Horse-hreerling Business.
Brigadier-General Anderson, an Indian
remount buyer, is shocked at Australia’s
horse-shortage. We sent 100,000 horses to
the World War, and there were no better.
At the time the Remount Department
never had less than 2000 high-class animals
ready for use; now it rarely has 1000, and
they are comparatively poor. Australia’s
horse population has decreased by 300,000
in the past 10 years, and the sort of sound,
upstanding animal between 15 and 16 hands,
with a strain of thoroughbred blood, which
used to be seen everywhere and was snapped
up by overseas buyers on sight, is rarely
found now outside show rings.
Yet there is still a very fair demand
for our horses. India wants 3000 a year
of the right stamp, and Japan and Java
would take as many more. According to
Inspector-General Chauvel :
“Cavalry will never be entirely displaced
by mechanical power: The Army is still in
need of a large reserve of light horses, and
the horse-breeding question is accordingly
one of national importance.”
A proof of this is that all the European
Powers, including Soviet Russia, are spend-
ing large sums annually on national studs.
It is an ironic circumstance that Aus-
tralia, which was designed by nature for
horse-breeding and which, owing to its
lack of oil, would have to fall back on
horse transport in the event of either in-
vasion or internal trouble, should be letting
the utility horse die out. Simultaneously
it is- going in more and more enthusiasti-
cally for racing, which, by a polite fiction,
is conducted “in order to improve the breed
of the horse.” Victoria’s Nationalist Gov-
ernment now proposes to call this bluff by
wiping out two of Melbourne’s three pony
courses. But if Nationalism was really
national-minded, it would go a step further
and either cut out sprint races and ban
geldings or greatly reduce the importance
of the one and heavily discourage the other.
Should Australian Jobs Go Abroad?
“R. Volt”: Said S. H. Watson, general
secretary of the A.N.A., the other day:
“They were all horrified with the way in
which an important place in Melbourne had
been hawked up and down England. Yet
other countries were happy to employ Aus-
tralians.” Exactly! As an Australian who
spent 20 years in the service of an English
co. abroad, I met other Australians occupy-
ing important jobs in Malaya, Java, Siam,
British North Borneo, China, Japan and
Siberia. My company employed more Aus-
tralians than Englishmen. No discrimina-
tion was made on account of the place .of
their birth.
I believe that for every Englishman or
foreigner occupying a position in Australia
for which he was specially imported there
are two Australians occupying equally high
positions abroad. This is reciprocity which
is all in favor of this country. Yet there
is very little recognition of the fact. An
association recently formed in Melbourne
which calls itself the Australia First
League aims at obtaining legislation abso-
lutely prohibiting the employment of
foreigners by Australian Governments.
Several of its most enthusiastic members
are returned Australians who have enjoyed
good salaries abroad!
4
“Strong” Counsel and Weak Judges.
Last week Acting Chief Justice Ferguson
of N. S. Wales deplored that it was possible
“to hire a man. not to put up any defence,
not even to suggest a defence, but to throw
mud.”
But the blame lies primarily with the
Judges, as is seen by the fact that there are
some (Justice Ferguson amongst them)
before whom the offence is not committed
or even attempted. The power of the Bench
to stop mud-slinging in certain circum-
stances is clear. Sir James Stephen
(“Digest of the Law of Evidence”) says:—
“The Court has always power to disallow
vexatious or irrelevant questions, and has
also a discretion to disallow any question
if, in its opinion, the answer would not
affect the witness’s credibility as to the
matter in issue.”
For some unexplained reason, N. S. Wales
has usually been afflicted with so-called
“strong” counsel who rely for acquittals
in desperate cases on flouting the laws of
evidence, and it has usually had one or
two Judges whom they have been able to
browbeat or bluff.
It is notorious that a large proportion of
those who ought to be charged with offences
against women and girls escape because of
this license.
Digger-settlers’ Miseries in Victoria.
“P.M.”: Here is my own experience. I
abandoned my Digger’s block in 1925. On
the premises were 32 cows which the board
had bought for me at £l7 a head. They were
sold for £5 10s. a head, and I was called upon
to pay the difference. Altogether, with arrears
of rent, etc., they billed me for over £6OO.
I received a letter stating that if I did not
visit the offices of the board and make
arrangements for paying off the sum
immediately, I would be proceeded against.
Shortly afterwards the question of proceed-
ing against soldiers who had gone out was
brought up in Parliament, and Mr. Down-
ward said: “The board has no authority to
proceed against any ex-soldier settler. I
have given orders that any man who leaves
his block leaving the board’s property in-
tact, and with no charge of dishonesty
against him, is not to be worried at all.”
Nevertheless, I got a notice from the Crown
Solicitor that he was going to sue me. I
interviewed Mr. Downward. He was
astonished and would not believe that the
officials were acting in such a manner until
he read the correspondence. I never heard
anything more of the matter, but 18 months
later I met another Digger who was being
harassed in the same manner. He assured
me that an inspector had even visited his
wife and suggested that she sell her own
property and pay off her husband’s debts to
the board to save him being gaoled! At
my suggestion he went and saw Minister
Baxley, and had the same experience as I
had had with Mr. Downward. That matter,
too, was immediately dropped.
When in 1924 I told my District Officer
that, like most of the Diggers who were in
a bad way, I had a young family, and that
if a man had to make a regular payment out
of the basic wage his family would starve,
“My troubles!” he exclaimed. “That’s their
look out. Mine is to get the money in!”
If Premier McPherson can break up the
official gang which has made soldier-settlers’
life a burden and a nightmare, good luck
to him! He’s got a tough job, though,
unless he is prepared to face tremendous
losses.
4 _
Every claimant for a dole under the N.S.W.
Family Endowment Act has to make a
declaration to the effect that “the endow-
ment paid to my wife will be used by her
for the maintenance, training and advance-
ment of the children.” In hundreds of cases
the money is spent on beer and the races
and the pictures; in thousands—particularly
on the northern coalfields—it is what David-
son, M.L.A., calls “a substitute for wages.”
It is bad enough to bleed work-providers to
keep the unspeakable system going without
condoning perjury.


ih
■e
BALANCE —the principle underlying the success-
ful construction of the world’s massive bridges—is
also the guiding principle in blending the ideal
motor fuel
SHELL
The Well - Balanced
Motor Spirit
3854
POLITICAL
POINTS
Commonwealth Parliaments usually run
their full course. In the second Parliament
there were four Minis-
tries (Protectionist,
Labor, Freetrade, and
Protectionist again),
yet it expired by ef-
fluxion of time. The
eleventh, which has
just been dispatched,
was the shortest Par-
liament, elected as it
was on November 17
and dissolved on Sep-
tember 12. Next in
order of brevity was
the fifth Parliament,
which was elected on
May 31, 1913, and dis-
solved on July 30,
1914. That was the
year of the double dis-
solution, w T hen, for the
first and only time
since the initial Com-
monwealth poll, all
the Senators had • to
be elected as well as
all the Representa-
tives. On the present
occasion (also unique)
only the House of
Reps, has been dis-
solved.
The Nationalists are
wild with Speaker
Groom because he
didn’t vote for the
Government on Hughes’s amendment to
the arbitration-abolition measure. Had he
done so. instead of following House of Com-
mons procedure, it would have been level
pegging; then Bayley, the chairman of com-
,mittees, could have come in with Ins vote,
The proceedings must have carried Groom s
mind back to 1904 when arbitration legis
latmn proved fatal to two Ministries.
Deakm s fell in April over the exclusion of
State'railwayman; Watson’s in August over
the inclusion of preference to unionists.
Hughes, Groom, Dr. Maloney and Watkins
are the only members of the present House
who were in at the death of both those
* ,
In a sense W. A. Holman is right when he
says that ‘ the intrigue which overthrew the
Bruce-1 age Government was not primarily
a political intrigue but a financial one. It
was the moving-picture ‘ industry that eggeo
on Wally Marks ; and Duncan, another
luminary of the Film Commission, squealed
and lobbied mdefatigably in the same interest.
Marks is now the hero of a hundred screens ;
in fact, the tide of movie and talkie and
picture-paper propaganda against the Gov-
ernment is at the flood. It is confidently
expected that Australia will take its politics,
ns well as its pitchers, from Hollywood. But
will Australia?
A feature of the rubbish now being
chucked at the public at many talkie
theatres is an item demonstrating how the
Australian worker will be destroyed if the
profits of the Hollywood showmen are
diminished. This stuff is not even screened
during intervals. Patrons would be justified
in demanding their money back on the
ground that theatres are under contract to
provide certain advertised entertainment, and
not political dope.
Another attempt to thrust a State-con-
trolled wheat pool on the N.S.W. farmers
has failed. With organisation, propaganda
and Government influence on the side of the.
poolers, the voting was 8756 for and 5716
against, but a two-thirds majority was re-
quired. Minister Tliorby issued a prelimin-
ary threat that farmers who did not vote
would be punished. A shade over 25 per
cent, invited him, in effect, to do his worst.
The new Westralian Commissioner reports
that the Perth tramways showed a profit
of £11,376 last, year (a pretty good result
compared with Sydney and Melbourne
figures) and the State railways a loss of
£178,699. He estimates that the waterside
strike diminished his railway revenue by
£lOO,OOO. The waterside strike, like the
timber-workers’ affair (still dragging on in
Sydney), was a strike against a Federal
arbitration award, and was applauded with
equal vehemence by the brisk boys who now
protest that it would be a foul crime to
abolish Federal arbitration.
There is to be no cable-wireless merger as
far as this end of the system is concerned.
So while Britain will be able to effect
economies by putting the various services
under a single management, Australia will
have to go on supporting the Pacific and
Extension cable concerns and the Beam. In
Melbourne the three have offices within a
stone’s-throw of one another. The expendi-
ture involved would be justified if the three
different managements meant competition,
but rates have been fixed by mutual consent.
Before Federal Labor threw itself into the
struggle against the Maritime Industries Bill
it congratulated the timber-workers on their
“splendid” resistance to the Lukin award. It
was as fatuous a resolution as has ever been
placed on record, and the lost strike thus
lauded has had another embarrassing sequel.
So much Labor money has been raised
(£205,000 is admitted) for the splendid fight
against Federal arbitration that the party
SUCCESS AT LAST.
LITTLE BIMBO: “I knew if I threw lighted matches about long enough I’d set fire to something some day.”
is grievously handicapped in the splendid
fight for Federal arbitration,
Rockhampton, the natural outlet for the
great woo i trade of Central Queensland, is
up in arms aga i nst a barefaced example of
differential railway charges. The rate on
wool from Barcaldine to Rockhampton is
1655 . 3d per ton, while that for exactly
ie same distance from Rockhampton to
Rx'isbane is cut down by special rebate to
525 . e d . Surely the Moore Government will
no t stand this swindle.
. .. ,
The McPhairsons’ effort to clip the claws
of Vic. usurers lias no stronger supporter
than R. W. Toutcher. Denouncing the stony-
hearted tribe; the veteran member for Stawell
a nd Ararat told the House that he knew of
cases j n which mere youngsters had com-
mitted suicide, seeing no other means of
escap e fx-om merciless harpies. Touts for
money-lenders, he pointed out, openly plied
unsavory trade in the Civil Service,
gj nce attention was thus drawn to them they
have scurried for cover, though it’s, still not
hard to find a nose showing here and there,
Resolved that the ewe lamb of its flock
of State enterpriser, the Babinda bote ,
should mot vanish from socialistic history
without the credit due to it, Queensland
Labor insisted that its performances should
be made public. Minister Sizer obliged,
saying that the perfect pub had cost £23,043
in building and equipment, and had returned
profits totalling £32,401. So there are even
State enterprises which can’t go wrong if
they are planted in places like a tropical
.cane-cutting district with no other pub
for miles around, and if the State doesn’t
hang on too long. Westralia had a Govern-
ment inn at Gwalia, which was just as
profitable as the Babinda venture until the
surrounding mines slumped. Then there
was another tale to tell.
Tasmania will furnish the most interest-
ing batch of contests next month; indeed,
small as it is. the Speck is quite likely to
be the pivotal State for once, Ex-Premier
Lyons will oppose I Jew Atkinson in Wilmot
Lyons is popular, and of recent years Atkin-
son has not had much of a margin. Jackson
will be tackled in Bass by Lyons’s lieutenant
Guy, and will also have to fight hard.
Laborite Gulley, who has not shone in
Parliament, although lie is an earnest little
man according to his fights, will be up
against John Gellibrand again; there were
only 128 votes between them last time.
McWilliams will get. Labor support in
Franklin, but with Seabrook already busy
in the field has a tough time ahead of him.
Bell (Darwin) has little to fear.
Vic. Leg. Assembly gave a rapid passage
to a bill of Hogan’s designed to make the
secrecy of the ballot more secure. Hitherto
on the rolls have been written by deputy
the numbers opposite the names of electors
returning officers on the back of ballot-
papers ; in future they will be written on
the top right-hand corner, and the corner
is to be covered with gummed paper. The
Opposition leader hopes that some day num-
bering will be abolished altogether.
S. Aus. moving-picture people are after
the scalp of little Parsons, Federal member
for Angas. They will have a job to get it,
for Parsons had 8047 votes to spare last
November —far and away the greatest
majority ever recorded in the electorate,
which dates from 1903. He led in every
subdivision from Angaston to Woodside.
Like other S. Aus. members, Parsons was
commanded to vote against his Government’s
picture-show taxation and return to Adelaide
“immediately” as a sign of submission. He
wrote a defiant letter to the papers and
brought the matter up in the House. So he
is to be driven out of public life —if the
picture-show interest can manage it. But
it’s- one thing to join others in driving a
bad dog out and quite another thing to get
them to let your dog in. So that the dog
you get in the end may be a darned sight
worse dog, from your point of view, than
the one you helped to turn out.
Worried almost to death by Federal arbi-
tration cases and State Forty-four-hour
Week an}! Family Endowment Acts, as well
'as by the effects of long-continued jobbery
in construction, James Fraser is throwing
up his job as Chief Railways Commissioner
in N. S. Wales. O. W. Brain, Assistant
Commissioner, is retiring with him. Henry
Thornton, manager of the Canadian National
Railways, is mentioned as a possible suc-
cessor to Fraser. Thornton took control of
the Canadian Government lines when they
were earning only one-tenth of one per cent,
per annum on capital; in four years they
were paying full interest. But, as he says
himself, there has been “a scrupulous policy
of non-interference on the part of the Gov-
ernment.” If he took Fraser’s place he
would have to share the management with
lawyers from Perth and Bendigo, union
secretaries from Clapham and Moscow, and
a swarm of politicians.
Scullin in an election manifesto makes a
special appeal to “those who stand for impar-
tial administration of the law and to those
who believe that the nation should have con-
trol of arbitration.” It reads well, but in
the case of the timber-workers Scullin’s
party expressed the utmost enthusiasm for
a concerted attempt to prevent the adminis-
tration of the law and to deny to the nation
the right to control arbiration.
S. Aus. Commissioner Webb is also in
the running for the succession to Fraser. A
bad season, unrestricted motor competition
and arbitration cases —two-tliirds of the stall
look to Beeby, Brockman, Quick and Co. for
rises—made his own job a nightmare last
year, the deficit (including an allowance of
£218,000 for obso-
lete assets) being
estimated at
£1,400,000. At the
close of the twelve-
month the harassed
man was defending
arbitration cases
brought by the
A.R.U., the Loco.
Enginemen, the
Professional Offi-
cers, the Federa-
tion of Salaried
Officers and eight
unions in the Metal
Trades group. And
F ederal Labor,
with the assistance
o f Hughes, and
Stew’art, and Mann,
and Marks, the
talkie hero, stands
for this crazy sys-
tem —or does so
until a dissatisfied
union strikes
against a Federal
Arbitration award.
Then it stands for
the strike.
“Padraic”:
“Hear, hear” and
cheers for The
Bulletin’s sug-
gestion that a tax
on trippers should
precede any i in-
crease in the excise
duties on beer and
tobacco. I re-
cently talked to a
man who had spent
£lO,OOO on a tour
abroad himself
and two women-
folk. He couldn't
remember much
about it, but he
ruefully confided to
me that he had
found Australia the
cheapest country in
the world. This
was another way
of saying that
foreigners had found him a juicy mug. Most
of these peregrinating casliboxes never “see
Australia first.” The man who was separ-
ated from £lO,OOO had never before left the
district in which he was born.
From Dr. Maloney, M.H.R.: —
A Bulletin paragraph (4/9/’29) might be con-
strued to mean that I am seeking to bring a
large number of women to Australia from the home-
land. That is not my intention. I am addressing
a letter to the politicians of Great Britain, pointing
out that more males come to Australia from the
homeland than females, thus adding to the unfortu-
nate preponderance of females in Great Britain, and
that the Big Brother movement is adding to the
discrepancy. It would be a good thing, I suggest,
to start a Little Sister movement to endeavor to
equalise the males who come out under the Big
Brother scheme.
The dozen superb drawings which Norman
Lindsay did to illustrate “The Quarter-
master” have been reproduced in two-tone
ink on art paper, and are now on sale at The
Bulletin’s chief office, Sydney, and at all
branch offices. The complete set of one
dozen drawings costs only 25., and to put
country subscribers on the same footing as
those of the cities, the set will be sent post-
free from the head office to any address in
Australasia.
THE STICKLER FOR PROPRIETY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Kainestness, lather than bitterness, would
characterise Labor’s appeal to the electors.”
— Opposition-leader Scullin.
No mealy-mouthed inanities we twitter;
They’d cut no ice in the approaching strife.
Deep into Page the quack and Bruce the
quitter
You’ll see us dig our longest, sharpest
knife,
Then twist it round and round—but not
with bitter
Hate and vindictiveness: not on your life.
For all such things we’ve got no sort of use;
\Wt leave them to those rotters Page and
Bruce.
For thirteen years they’ve kept us out and
under,
With never sniff of place or taste of power;
Time and again the dogs have stole our
thunder,
Even the saints in Heaven, we shouldn’t
wonder,
Would have become malevolent and sour,
Forsaken argument, beneath the stress,
For crude and passionate abusiveness.
Not us! Our principles flat contradict yours,
But past decorum’s bounds we’ll never go,
And though we’ll soon be drawing lurid
pictures
Of workers to the wolves whom Bruce
would throw
There’ll be no acrimony in our strictures
No venom in the keenest darts we throw.
With damning facts and figures fortified,
We’ll merely flay Bruce of his blooming hide.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


THE HELPING HAND. —A STREET-CORNER STUDY.
Poverty
Point
If there are any concert parties eager to
<lo one of the best services open to them
in Australia, they can rely upon receiving
a hearty welcome at Waterfall (N.S.W.)
Sanatorium. The hon. sec. of the recreation
association there writes that there is rather
a dearth of concert-party visitors at the
moment, and 400 patients hope that the
dearth will soon be rectified.
“C. 8.” : The other evening a breezy indi-
vidual blew into a Melbourne theatre,
presented his card, which bore the address of
a big London daily, and asked to be passed
into the show. The house manager, noted
for his dourness, pushed back the card,
remarking that he could go through at the
usual price, plus tax. The young man looked
hurt and asked “This is a Williamson theatre,
is it not?’ The manager replied quietly that
it was. “Then,” said the young man triumph-
antly, “that’s all right. I met Mr. William-
son in Sydney and he told me, courteous
gentleman as he is, to just mention his name
and it would be 0.K.” “Yes,” said the
manager, grimly, “Mr. Williamson was a
courteous gentleman. But I helped to bury
him before you were born.”
“Cauboy”: The use of pictorial insets on
the legitimate stage (B. 4/9/’29) goes much
further back than George M. Cohan s staging
of “On Trial” in New York. Over 17 years
ago a crime melodrama was put on in Mel-
bourne with two stage settings placed back
to back on a revolving platform with a parti-
tion in between. One was set for a court
scene. When a witness started to describe
liow the murder was committed there was a
black-out and, amidst much grinding of gears,
the platform revolved and the second scene
was revealed with the murderer wiping the
blood off his guilty knife. The court officials
remained unchanged, so they simply stayed
in their seats. Ronald Macleod, son ot the
old Bulletin boss, was the Judge, and as he
was invisible as to his lower part, he nevei
troubled to make up below the waist. On
one occasion he sat throughout the proceed-
ings in a pair of khaki shorts.
“Rob. P.”: It is hard to believe that the
alleged “motion-picture industry” has suf-
fered the devastating losses and experienced
the lean times its present propaganda makes
out. Admission charges have, steadily in-
creased until the industry’s claim of provid-
iug a “cheap entertainment” is a misnomer.
It times have been “lean,'’ the industry
has brought that upon itself by building
over-elaborate premises and by over-staffing
them with unnecessary and expensively liv-
eried flunkies. The present agitation, ( with
its Hurry of crocodile-tears for the poor
employees,” especially the musician section
of them, appears to be an attempt to excite
public sympathy by exploiting the plight of
the dog the “industry” has already whipped
and turned adrift. The real mainspring of
the agitation is the knowledge that any
deeper bite into John Public’s pocket per
medium of the booking-office is going to cause
John to button up his pocket.
“Ad.”: Adelaide City Council, after hav-
ing W. R. Knox as honorary. organist for
some years, has made it a paid position—
a poor £lO5 a year. The post goes to John
Dempster in preference to Horner, of the
Conservatorium, and Knox himself. There
has been much discussion, but Dempster is
a popular man, with a repute also as teacher
and competition-judge. He is son of an
Anglican canon in Adelaide; his wife was
Hilda Lane, of concert-platform fame.
“C.C.F.”: Recent complaint that the
British Broadcasting Corporation is back-
ward in developing Empire Broadcasting is
not unjustified. It is only lately that the
8.8. C. raised the question whether the
people of Australia, Maoriland, Canada,
South Africa and India were prepared to
pay for a regular broadcast through the
short-wave station at Chelmsford. The idea
was laughed at here, because at the time
2FC, in conjunction with Amalgamated
Wireless, had frequently broadcast pro-
grammes on a special short wave for recep-
tion and re-broadcasting throughout Great
Britain. That has often been done since,
and neither 2FC nor Amalgamated Wireless
has thought of asking anyone in Britain to
pay. Similarly, while the 8.8. C. has been
boggling over the question of broadcasting
from England to Australia, the great Philips
stations in Holland, PHI and PCJ, have
been doing the job. Anyone with a short-
wave receiver can hear these stations as Well
as he hears local ones, and at no extra cost.
“Mid-Channel”: Surely “Middle C” and “A
Major” (B. 21/8/’29 and 17/7/’29), m
affirming that the only meaning music has
in it is what is put there by the hearer,
show appalling ignorance. “Cine Ma’s”
remark (B. 4/9/’29) re the performance of
a “Bach cantata in front of a cow” is emi-
neantly apropos. Leslie Harris, a brilliant
English monologist, when in Sydney some
years ago, took a simple melody and played
it as composed by Wagner, Beethoven,
Schubert and Mendelssohn. The effect was
to show the characteristic differences ot
the same air conceived by different com-
posers. It is always assumed that an
audience Mho go to hear and listen to music
have some idea of it. Otherwise, as in
the case of the cow, it would be immaterial
what class of music was selected. The effect
would be all the same.
“S.T.S.”: There is a motion before S. A.
Parliament for the formal adoption of “The
Song of Australia.” It muis produced long
ago in a competition in the country town
of Gawler, words by Mrs. Carleton, music
by Carl Linger. It has great local popu-
larity. First two lines: —
There is a land where summer skies
Are gleaming with a thousand dyes....
The air is tuneful and easily picked up,
with, as its great feature, a long-drawn
repetition of “Australia” three times at the
end of each verse, by way of chorus.
“Melb. Rep.”:' “A.L.” (B. 28/8/’29_) is
wrong in saying Miss H'orniman and Sybil
Thorndike were associated with Birmingham
Repertory. Neither of them ever took an
active part in that movement. After sub-
sidising the Abbey Theatre in Dublin for
some years Miss Horniman crossed to Eng-
land, where she was instrumental in present-
ing the first Shaw play to London audiences.
After this she started the Gaiety Theatre in
Manchester, and it was there that Sybil
Thorndike became associated with Repertory,
and, incidentally, met her husband, Lewis
Casson. The Cassons played in many
l-Qles, and it was in order to permit their
eldest child, now an actress of promise, to
make her initial bow that they left the Man-
chester theatre. They were replaced by
Milton Rosmer and Irene Rooke. The other
leading man at the time was lan MacLaren,
well known to Australian audiences by
reason of his fine portrayal of Shakspeareau
roles.
“B Flat”: “A Flat” (B. 4/9/’29) hits
one nail on the head in his par. about the
proposal to send child pianist Nancy Weir
to Europe. I have met a number of Aus-
tralian musicians arriving in London, from
Ada Crossley up to the present, and I should
say that M'liat any infant migrant requires
most is a proper physical training and a good
schooling. And that can be got much more
easily in Australia than in England.
“A Flat”: Backhaus, the most distin-
guished pianist who has visited Australia for
many years, will return next year under the
Gravestock management. Apparently the
human element in the musical sphere has not
been quite ousted yet.
“Cauboy”: The latest young Australian
to catch the eye of London managers is
Alban Whitehead, the Melburnian whose
pleasant tenor was generally admired when
he starred in Fritz Hart’s production of
Mozart’s “Cosi fan tutte” at the Playhouse
last year. A bright, lively youth off stage,
his role was obviously light comedy, and it
is on that account that lie has attracted
notice in the Old Smoke.
“Craiser”: Imported Walter Richardson
was a bad speculation for J.C.W. .After
the discovery that his tenor did not suit, the
role for which the tall negro was engaged in
“Show Boat,” he was put on to the Tiv. cir-
cuit. Unfortunately, there is a set conven-
tion as to how stage nigs, should sing and
comport themselves, and Richardson doesn t
conform to it. It cost the Firm £2OOO to
bring him and his family over.
“Cauboy”: Nothing shows the precarious
nature of theatrical enterprise as much as the
Firm’s experience with Maisie Gay. ( Tlns
sturdy comedienne came in with the “This
Year of Grace” co. and revealed herself as
an accomplished actress. But she was too
completely English for Australian audiences
and she was too individual an artist to adapt
herself to local requirements. She was tried
on the Tivoli circuit in Adelaide, with the
result that her employers would not risk a
season in the other cities and shipped her
home again. She was being paid £250 per
seven-niglit.
“Cine Ma”: Anybody noticed a renaissance
of the vocal classics? At a concert nowadays
modern songs are practically never heard,
their place being taken by Schubert, the
Elizabethan song-writers and even earlier
balladists. An optimist might spring to the
conclusion that the public’s taste had sud-
denly taken a turn for the better, but there
is a simpler explanation. The Copyright
Association has bemi particularly active of
late on behalf of its clients. The classical
writers, being all dead and frequently anony-
mous as well, give the programme confectors
far less trouble.
“L.11.P.”: Australia has seen many female
Hamlets, and a female Romeo or two also,
but so far no actress here has essayed the
role that Lucille la Verne has cast herself
for in London. She is staging “The Mer-
chant of Venice” with herself as Shylock.
“Cauboy” : It required the combination of
an American education and a Chinese thorax
to create the best talkie exhibition on both
rocal and personal side yet given in Aus-
tralia. I refer to the Fox Movietone of
Mme. Chiang Kai-shek discoursing on the
feminist movement in the Flowery Land. The
mice was absolutely without any distortion,
and the owner’s deportment was an engaging
nixture of diffidence and audacity. When
[ saw it at the Regent, Melbourne, the
audience actually applauded.
“C.Ma.”: Melbourne continues to spawn
musical prodigies. The latest is George
Henry, an infant of seven who astonished
Members of the Melbourne Music Club the
atlier evening by his technical mastery of a
addle. George hails from St. Ivilda and has
a wise father. He is to be withdrawn from
public gaze for three years, while the Albert-
street Conservatorium develops his undoubt-
edly remarkable talent.
“T.P.”: “L.11.P.” (B. 11/9/’2O), referring
;o Billy Hoskins as “a perfect Sir Anthony
Absolute,” reminds me that years ago many
if us, lovers of the Bard, wanting to honor
lie memory of the grand old Shakspearean
ictor and scholar, hunted vainly for his
p-ave. In his last days, tortured by pain,
ie had to teach elocution from bis dying
led to get the necessary crust. Ballarat
■mid-diggers had thrown nuggets at him—
rat easy come, easy go. My five bob is
•eady for the man who can find that grave.
THE BACKBONE OF THE DRAMA.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It is true that love is the principal theme [of
(he talkies], but so it has been ever since the drama
was invented.”—' “Cine Ma,” B. 11/9/’29.
Far back in the Pliocene Age,
When humans in skins were arrayed,
Some josser invented the stage ;
And odds may be cheerfully laid
The very first play that was played
Depended for plot and for plan
On the way of a man with a maid
And the way of a maid with a man.
Emotions like hatred and rage
Were vividly, doubtless, portrayed,
And torn into rags, I’ll engage,
In many a crude masquerade.
Hut a theme that more potently swayed
And thrilled the Neanderthal clan
Was the way of a man with a maid
And the way of a maid with a man. •
There were warriors combats to wage,
And heavy tragedians who brayed,
And jesters, now silly, now sage,
In the first sock-and-buskin brigade.
But the stuff that producers repaid
( Ere payment financial began)
Was the way of a man with a maid
And the way of a maid with a man.
Was never a topic conveyed
Such lure to the Thespian fan,
Since days when, agog through the glade,
Cro-Magnons to matinees ran,
As the way of a man with a maid
And the way of a maid with a man.
N'.S.W.
T. THE R.


Y 6
wd better
/ms
: -i
C ' < vv
Sew
CO£flM
s(?<
3®»
&C 4
£o/?/<
COo
r/ pp
to
£s
m
€2ci
W 6
cvg
?52
£
sit
nBCn
m
These Cigarettes are guaranteed to
be specially manufactured under the
most hygienic conditions by Australian
workpeople from pure high-grade
Virginian tobacco expertly blended*
w. D. & H. O. WILLS (Aust.) LTD.
77ns 15 On 1'-
23 1'e
CAlso packed in
tins of 50 & 100
HAVE you tried them yet—these cork-
tipped cigarettes of incomparable
quality and unusual value?
If not, why postpone a delightful
smoking treat? Buy and try a tin to-day.
COUNTRY
LIPS
VIR-G I"N IA CORJC TIPPED
CIGARETTES
cyf[fuie in °fom Own Country ~ by V. &H.O. tyills,(Ausl)Ltd.


“The BLUNTON”
The Collar that —
banishes bad language when dressing,
because the Tie has an easy passage—
it can’t stick or drag. Saves wear and
tear on your Neckwear. Its moulded,
“stand-out” front prevents rubbing
against the Shirt. A stylish, cool-
wearing Stiff Collar, that well-dressed
men prefer. At RothwelFs only.
Price 1/9
Rothwells Outfitting
EDWARD STREET
LIMITED
BRIS BAN £
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire,
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety f-u9s
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS —GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
ttacllields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and \ Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W. II Branch ( 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Vic.
Foundries i Bassendean, Perth, W.A. II Office J T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company-
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers'
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The only M.H.R. who left Canberra with
the almost certain knowledge that he will be
“ex” in a few weeks was Paul Jones, Labor
member for Indi. Bob Cook made a present
of Indi to Jones by forgetting to nominate.
Had he remembered his vote would have gone
to the Government last week, like those of
all the other Cockies, and there would have
been no defeat and no general election. Bob
left a signed nomination form behind when
lie departed for England recently, but the
Agrarians will probably prefer Walter,
M.L.A. for West Gippsland and president
of the Farmers’ Union. Incidentally, Jones,
piratical though his name is, has made him
self popular with all parties. He has settled
down in the Canberra Club like an old mem-
ber.
Harry Greville, who recently drove a
closed car between Melbourne and Sydney
in 144 hours, has the record-making habit:,
lie was a passenger on the first Great
Western express and on the first East-West
air-liner. He was the first Australian to
congratulate Hoover on his election. The
President chatted amiably about old West-
ralian days. Gre-
ville started as a
printer’s devil on a
small Echuca
paper; the editor
whose “copy” li e
carried was
"Smiler” Hales.
Following on the
death of his eldest
brother in Perth,
he is going to Eng-
land to seek official
recognition of his
family’s claims to
belong to the direct
line of tiny Earls of
Warwick, though
he has no intention
of ousting the pre-
sent incumbent.
Secretary
HAROLD J.
FINNIS, who is
busy preparing for
the opening of
Adelaide’s big
annual Agricultural
Show.
Wally Marks can be beaten in Wentworth,
which is a sporty-genteel electorate, but it
will be no. easy task. He belongs to a
popular and affluent local family—the late
Herbert Marks was a brother, and Theo
Marks, one of the best-liked men that ever
stepped on to an Australian racecourse or
into an Australian club, is a cousin. Wally’s
Imperial fervor is such that governors appear
but lukewarm King’s Men beside him. He
served with the Dover Patrol, and Von
Tirpitz is understood to have paled at the
mention of his name. He is on back-slapping
terms with every elector of influence from
Darlinghurst to the coast.
W. H. Kelly, now in Europe, could take
down Walter Marks’s number if he hap-
pened to be in Australia. He resigned the
Wentworth seat, in which he had succeeded
William McMillan, in 1919. He might have
been lured hack to politics but for the Bruce-
Pages’ fatal distrust of brilliant men. In
Opposition, Kelly was one of the most mor-
dantly effective private members that have
ever flayed Labor, and he made a good job
of the Home Affairs Department just before
the war.
Australia’s old friend Joseph Maria Gor-
don has been gathered to his fathers in
Britain. After a preliminary gallop as a
subaltern in the Royal Artillery, Gordon
organised the Permanent Artillery in South
Aus. and become Commandant. The pro-
gress of the years saw him a British staff-
officer in the Boer War, Commandant in
Victoria and N.S.W., and Chief of the Com-
monwealth section of the Imperial General
Staff. He com-
manded the
92nd Brigade in
Fvan c e, and
then the 10th
Reserve Divi-
sion, finishing a
major - general.
Of the Huntley
branch of the
Gordons, his
people -were long
established i n
Spain, where
they made Xeres
wine. He mar-
ried Eileen
Fitzgerald, o f
Cas 11 e m aine
(Vic.), who
died in 1910,
and he wrote
“The Chronicles
of a Gay Gor-
don.”
DAVID H.
CRONE, one of
the best-known
figures in Vic.
football He is
president of
Carlton (for whom
he used to play )
and Vic. inter-
state selector.
The late General Gordon was always
known in Adelaide as “Army Gordon, to
distinguish- him from prominent South Aus-
tralians of the same name. He was the typi-
cal “Ouida” Guardsman in appearance and
manner. Fond of club life, he had an engag-
ing habit of using his turned-up trouser-cuffs
as a purse for sovereigns at loo —then practi-
cally the only card game outside the serious
whist. He has left a lot of good stories of
Australia in liis book.
The oldest native-born Westralian is
Robert Minson, of Northam, a pioneer
farmer and grazier. Minson first saw the
light in Adelaide-terrace, Perth, m lpo4,
five years after Governor Stirling’s arrival.
He can remember Perth when it was a
struggling village, and Northam when it
consisted of three houses and a wayside inn.
Dead at Mt. Gambier (S.A.), E.__F.
Crouch, the second white child born (Nov.
1, 1854) in the Blue Bake country. His
parents came from Portland (Vic.), and,
after a taste of commercial life, he followed
the paternal calling of pastoralist. He was
an amateur rider in his younger days, and
was an authority on the abos.
A. A. Staines, Queensland’s new Under-
secretary for Mines, hails from Mackay,
long famous for its sugar and rum. He
began his official career in the office of the
Warden at Ingham, and served in various
capacities from Croydon to until,
in 1920. lie was appointed Public Service
Inspector. Last year he was re-transferred
to his old department.
The youngest member in the Maoriland
Parliament is George Black, who represents
Motueka; he is only 24. Black was a
session clerk, and, in a report presented to
the House, was praised for his work as
clerk to the goldfields and mines committee.
The Wards have, made him chairman of the
same committee.
The general election will bring Dr. Not!
back into the field as W. M. H'ughes’s oppo-
nent in North Sydney. Nott proved his
campaigning quality in 1925, when he beat
Theodore in Herbert. Studying in Britain
when the war began, he enlisted as a private
in a Scottish cavalry regiment and served
for the duration. Bundaberg claims him as
a son.
If N.S.W. Premier Bavin goes on with the
expulsion of Jarvie, M.L.A., he will be able
to quote two Victorian precedents. In 1869
C E Jones (famous for his “Gentlemen of
Ballarat East and Savages of Bungaree”)
was expelled for alleged bribery, but was
promptly re-elected. In 1901 Ted Findley
was shown the Assembly door because the
Melb. Labor weekly, of which lie was pub-
lisher, had reprinted an article reflecting
upon Edward VII. Findley tried to get back
to the Assembly by standing for East Melb.,
in which there was a vacancy, instead ot tor
Melb., which he had represented until ex-
pelled, but was unsuccessful. Shortly after-
wards he got into the Senate, and had
several terms there —he was defeated in
November.
Dr. Coleman, the new coadjutor-bishop of
Armidale (N.S.W.), is the _ youngest R.C.
bishop in Australia, and his chief is the
oldest. Dr. Coleman is 42, Dr. O Connor,
81. The Bishop has spent 53 out of 54 years
of priesthood in the Northern Rivers diocese.
His coadjutor was ordained in Rome 1 1
years ago for the parish.
Chasing the larger bacteria is evidently
a healthy occupation; Charles French, the
entomologist, has celebrated his 90th birth-
day in Melbourne. French landed m Vic-
toria in 1852 and began his career by driv-
ing bullock waggons. Later he served under
Baron von Mueller and Guilfoyle at the
Botanic Gardens and eventually became the
State’s first entomologist. His huge work on
Victoria’s innumerable insect nuisances has
been of incalculable benefit to fruitgrowers
and agriculturists.
Henry Tardent, whose busy life has closed
in Queensland, was a French-Swiss and a
man of many parts. He combined an in-
timate knowledge of agriculture with a
talent for journalism. Pioneer of the State
experimental farm idea in Queensland, he
ran the Government institutions at Biggen-
den and Westbrook; at other times he
managed and edited provincial newspapers,
and extolled his adopted country in Swiss
and French publications —he could be fluent
in half a dozen languages. In addition,
Tardent reared a tine Australian family;
three sons served in the war.
In Maoriland’s new Parliament, the Labor
member who is most certain of an attentive
hearing is Jimmy McCombs, who represents
Lyttelton. He is the party’s mathematician
and statistician, and as he is always sure
of his facts and figures he has to be reckoned
with. Sixteen years in the House, all de-
voted to close study, have made him a master
of its rules and precedents, and on that
account alone he is looked up to by all
parties. One of the few remaining disciples
of the late T. E. Taylor, McCombs is a
staunch prohibitionist.
A. G. Lumsden, who passed out recently
in Sydney, nearly beat Speaker Frank Mad-
den for the Boroondara (Vic.) Assembly seat
in 1908; Madden had only 11 votes to spare.
In those days Lumsden seemed likely to
make his mark in public life, but he did not
train on. He was remarkably like Earl
Beauchamp when the Liberal peer was Gov.
of N.S.W. For a while he ran a weekly
paper at Kew. He was a clever amateur
conjurer and solo entertainer, and, turning
professional, made some money at the game.
Newton Wanliss, the Melbourne lawyer,
has devoted the last eight years to the com-
pilation of a history of the 14th Battalion
as a memorial to his son. The job required
the writing of 14,000 letters, and Wanliss
typed six copies of each chapter and sub-
mitted them to the combatant officers con-
cerned for verification. Allan Murray, who,
as a member of the mapping section in Pales-
tine, came in contact with Lawrence of
Arabia, is doing the maps for the work,
which is about to be published by the bat-
talion committee, with an introduction by
Monash,
Dick Meatheringham, the Domain orator,
has taken possession of a disused quarry at
Rose Bay, and says he intends to claim a
possessory title; meanwhile trespassers will
be prosecuted. On a previous occasion he
took up his quarters in a disused police
station at Manly, and stood a week’s siege
before he was evicted. Meatheringham used
to worry the North Sydney aldermen by
holding public meetings in parks contrary to
their by-laws. Up to date he has not pounced
upon anything he can stick to, but his luck
may change.
Vic. Premier McPherson pleased the
officers of the Tourville by the way he
handled an incident of which some of the
papers made a mouthful—the use of a small
hose to keep back visitors who were rushing
on board the already overcrowded warship.
It was only an inch hose, and Captain.
Abrial, the commander, got more water than
anyone else. McPherson said he would have
to ask the League of Nations to sanction
the building of larger cruisers, as it had
been demonstrated in Melbourne that those
the size of the Tourville were too small for
people to inspect thoroughly when in port.
McPherson gets along well with Frenchmen.
Little General Pan and he struck up a great
friendship, though the warrior could not
speak English and the politician had for-
gotten all the French he had learned at
school.
R. G. Wynn-Williams, dead in Charters
Towers, will be affectionately remembered by
those who were familiar with the Queens-
land goldfield in its roaring days. A Maori-
lander, he took his law degree at Christ-
church, and served his novitiate with Thynne
and Macartney in Brisbane. Then he went
to the Towers, and in partnership with
Eustace Murphy soon built up a flourishing
practice. One of the surprises of the Queens-
land elections of 1912 was his victory over
the redoubtable Johnny Mullan, since Attoi-
liey-General, in the fight for the Towers
seat. W- J. Wellington, for years secretary
of the old Miners’ Union on the Towers,
beat Wynn-Williams in 1915.
The magistrate most feared by Maoriland
offenders against the law is Frederick Knight
Hunt, of Auckland. As a barrister in Christ-
church, where he practised for 27 years, he
had a reputation for saying exactly what
he thought and saying it very forcibly, a
habit that sometimes brought him in conflict
with the Bench; but though he is as down-
right as ever, he has no trouble of that
sort in his own court. Hypocrites and
snivellers are his pet abominations. He comes
down upon them like a ton of bricks.
In Armadale (Vic.) there is a street of
16 neat wooden houses occupied exclusively
by war widows. It was the idea of E. H.
Willis, who was Mayor of the suburb in
1918. Most of the services were laid on free
of charge, the land was presented by the
Council, and the rent is a shilling a week.
There were 56 children when the scheme was
started; now there are only two. The rest
have grown up, and some have gone else-
where. Only one of the 16 married. again,
and her place was taken by another widow.
Mrs. R. D. Mulvey, who died at Oberon
(N.S.W.) the other day, was the first
graduate in psychology at Sydney Uni. Sue.
got her B.A. in 1913 and M.A. (with
honors) in 1916, and when her medical hus-
band went to the war she continued teaching
for a few years. Later she was a lecturer
for the W.E.A.
Few Vic. Ministers of the Crown have
died while in harness. Richard Heales
(1864), Lands Minister under McCulloch,
was the first, and responsible government
had then been running nearly nine years.
Then came R. S. Anderson (1883), Minister
for Justice under Service in the Big Coali-
tion with Berry; James Lorimer (1889).
Minister for Defence under Gillies and
Deakin; G. D. Langridgc (1.891) . Chief Sec.
under Munro; James Campbell. (1893).
Minister for Customs and Education under
Patterson; David Coutts Hon.
Minister under Turner; and Alt red Hicks,
M.L.C. (1921), Hon. Minister under Lawson.
Jos. Sabelberg, who is reckoned the oldest
practising solicitor in Australia, intends
retiring at the end of the year. He arrived
in Melbourne in
1853, was educated
at Scotch College
and the University,
was called to the
Bar in 1862, and
has pursued Costs
ever since. At 87
he is in full pos-
se 3s i o n of liis
faculties, and h i s
memory is the envy
of many a younger
man. The inex-
tinguishable veter-
an is a French and
German scholar,
and has more than
a nodding acquain-
tance with Rus
sian.
JAMES
BARRETT,
Victoria’s most
widely-known
medical knight.
He used to be a
very busy eye
specialist, but gives
most of his time to
public movements
of extraordinary
diversity these
later days.
The new manager of the Vic. Government
Tourist Bureau is smiling 40-year-old W. T.
McConnell; he has been taken from the job
of chief train despatcher to fill the chair
vacated by Roy Gollan, now on the Argus.
McConnell started as a truck recorder at
Ballarat in 1907, pushed his head into a
staiionmaster’s cap six years later, and
became traffic inspector (the youngest in the
service) in 1920. Later he had a term with
the Betterment and Publicity Board. He
knows Victoria like a book, and has per-
sonality.
The dozen superb drawings which Norman
Lindsay did to illustrate “The Quarter-
master” have been reproduced in two-tone
ink on art paper, and are now on sale at The
Bulletin’s chief office, Sydney, and at all
branch offices. The complete set of one
dozen drawings costs only 25., and to put
country subscribers on the same footing as
those of the cities, the set will be sent post-
free from the head office to any address in
Australasia.
THE ROADS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Across the gray and barren plain, around
the tree-clad hill
And through the sand and spinit'ex the roads
are Avinding still,
The wide, white roads, the long, red roads,
the beckoning roads that lead
To all the things, I used to think, that any
man could need.
They look the same as in the days wheu
morning, fresh and fair,
Could solve the problems of the night and
banish every care.
Still ever onward wind the roads I travelled,
heel and toe;
But never comes again the call I answered
long ago.
The highways and the byways lie asleep be-
neath the sun.
But now I know how barren are the goals
to which they run.
Still blow the winds that ever blew across
their dust or mire,
But no wind ever blew that fanned the
flames of dead desire.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
MAKING THINGS RIGHT FOR GRAN’PA.
FIVE-YEAR-OLD (to grand-dad, furiously endeavoring to overtake office arrears): “You
can have Peter, gran pa—you don’t seem to have anyone else to play wif.”
“Aileron”: It is hard to realise that only
20 years have gone since Bleriot made the
■ r ,, , fl . , . , ■ , t-u n
cross-Channel flight which echoed round the
-world. He crossed again the other day to
see the Schneider Cup race over the Solent,
this time flying a huge monoplane, which
could have carried half a dozen of his
original machines. He and Hubert Latham,
now dead, were both waiting for favorable
weather to make that first attempt. Blenot
was up first on the famous July morning, and
was across before his rival was out of bed.
Bleriot’s engine could not run 20 minutes
without overheating. It happened, when he
was still over the Channel, but a heavy rain
squall saved his bacon.
* * * *
“Oran” : One of the medicoes at the Sydney
Congress, emphasising the power of imagina-
tion, told how some years ago he was travel-
ling in the M.L. backblocks, and one night
found himself the guest on a small station
of an eccentric bachelor host. An appetising
roast appeared for dinner, and the hungry
visitor was enjoying it thoroughly when his
host remarked in an absent-minded way,
“Well, ray old mare has given us a fine
dinner!” The guest promptly lost his appe-
tite. recollected he had at the first mouthful
noticed a queer taste about the meat, a>
pushed his plate distastefully away, shud-
dering at even the smell. His host ate on
unmoved, and presently remarked with a
twinkle: “We’re indebted to her for the meal,
but you mustn’t think you were eating her.
Two weeks ago I swapped her for a cow.”
![! * * *
“The Medical Matelot”: ITow’s this for
luck? In July, 1916, 11.M.A.5. arrived
off Hong Kong from Singapore in a thick fog
at early dawn. The harbm’ has two
entrances; the western one is little
used, the eastern is the well-known
Lyee-Moon passage, heavily guarded
by batteries. We took the nearest
way, steamed in through the west-
ern channel and anchored in the
middle of the harbor. When the
fog lifted, every kind of small craft
scurried out to us —police launch,
naval guard boat, Sumboats —all
with the same question. “Who are
you, and how did you get here?”
When we explained our identity
and added that we had come in
by the western entrance, a horrified
naval guard officer exploded. “But you
couldn't! Dammit all, that channel is
mined!”
:|c * *
“Nodrog” : When Billy Hughes was mak-
ing his triumphal tour of France in 1918,
accompanied by a retinue of press agents,
including Lord Burnham and Robert Blatcli-
ford, he pulled up near Bray-sur-Somme to
have a look at a big gun captured by the 2nd
and 4th Australian Battalions after it had
dropped numerous 15-inch shells in Amiens.
Noticing that hundreds of Diggers had
scratched their names on the barrel with
their bayonets or any other implement that
came handy, Billy sent his chauffeur to his
car for a hammer and chisel, and, after
removing his coat, showed his ability to
use the tools as a tradesman should by adding
a deeply-engraved “W. M. Hughes” and the
date to the list. Then he stood on top of the
gun platform, supported by a few Diggers,
whilst the photographer snapped the exhibit.
Our Priminister then said he would have the
gun sent to Australia, but Burnham reckoned
it was too big to handle. Billy disposed c f the
objection by remarking that if Fritz could
get the gun so far from Essen, the Diggers
could get it to Aussie; but I believe it sta.y“d
in France.
“Der Jong”: The reported arrest of a
certain Von Veltheim in the Transvaal
revives old memories. The ex-Prussian
offi(jer was a familiar %ure in Pretoria and
Johannesburg in the golden days of Oom
Paul, when he posed as a concession-hunter,
but was really gathering military intelligence
for Germany. He had other proclivities,
however, and when one morning Jo’burg
heard that he had shot Woolf Joel dead in
his office, no one wept for what seemed
to be coming to him. A Boer jury acquitted
him on the self-defence plea, however—the
Joels were not popular with any section of
the community—and Veltheim was advised
to leave the country. In London a few
years later he tried to blackmail Solly Joel
and got 20 years for threats of murder. In
1928 he was spotted in the Transvaal again
and thrown out as a possible danger. This
time he has come back through Portuguese
YES, THEY SEEM TO.
DOT: "Do you really think women live longer than men?"
P ERCE: “Aw — yeahs, I think they do. Especially widows.”
territory. It almost looks as if fliere was
something in the story that he knows where-
abouts in the Transvaal are planted those
four millions in gold that went missing when
Kruger left the country.
* :K * *
“Morita”: After Pozieres, as an apprecia-
tion, our c.o. bestowed the exalted rank of
Lance Jack on 20 of our old-timers. At
orderly-room next morning 18 of the appoint-
ments were heaved back at him. Certainly,
the rank drew no extra cash, and its respon-
sibilities in our outfit were mostly confined to
bossing the sanitary squad and other fatigues,
but according to King’s Regs, it was the
kick-off towards a field-marshal’s baton.
Scores of our best soldiers, however, pre-
ferred the freedom of the mob.
s|s Jfc #
“Si Anu”: Those who advocate the intro-
duction of the Indian coolie into North Aus-
tralia may find something to ponder in the
following incident. At Singapore some
Tamils —Southern Indians —employed on
roadmaking by the municipal council appeared
one morning in all the glory
of bright vermilion shirts and
khaki shorts. It was such a strik-
ing departure from their usual
costume of a scrap of muslin
round the loins that it was natu-
rally assumed that the council
had interfered in the interests of
Mrs. Grundy, but the body
promptly disclaimed the impeach-
ment. It was the coolies them-
selves who explained matters.
The costume was not a uniform
supplied by the council, but had
been voluntarily adopted by the
“workers” as a distinguishing
mark to obviate the .nuisance of
being continually moved on by the
police like ordinary loiterers!
“R. Volt”: There is another
aspect to “P.M.’s” story of the
telegraph-operator who was able
to finish a yarn and then write
down from memory a message
which had been coming through
on the sounder. The P.-M.G.’s
department is supposed to give a
secret and confidential service to
the public. It is theoretically
impossible for an outsider to
ascertain the contents of any
telegram after it has been sub-
mitted. Yet in most country
stations the sounder is situated
in the front office. Any Morse
reader —and there are hundreds
of amateurs in these days of
radio —can overhear a message
while standing at the counter.
The other day I could not avoid
overhearing a message to my
next-door neighbor. In this case
it conveyed word of a bereave-
ment, and I was able to hurry
home and break the news gently.
But wdiat about other sorts of
information ?
“Shop”: Our heaviest deluge started
in Amiens the day after the Diggers had
hurled Fritz back, and it didn’t end till weeks
after, away up in Flanders. Our Divvy
wasn’t needed in front of Amiens, and when
the Northern push started we were consigned
back there. As we marched into the Amiens
railway-yards to entrain, the cheering Frog-
gies, bent on showing their practical appre-
ciation, rolled out, the Yin Rouge from their
Red Cross Dep6t in barrels standing five
feet high. Nothing was barred, from mess
tins to cooks’ dixies. My last blurred memory
of Amiens is of Diggers rolling one of the
huge barrels along the platform, appropria-
ting all the goods-yard fire buckets, and
issuing a bucket of wine to a truck. It was
a sorry unit that staggered into Borre
(Flanders) next morning, but the wet sca-
son recommenced when our billet for the
day was the village brewery, left by the
refugees piled high with cases of pick-me-ups.
That night vee were in front of Streezeele.
No one knew where Fritz was, and no one
except the heads cared; only a few kneAv
where wc were. Fortunately, the recovery
was a gradual one. For weeks any of the
deserted farmhouses behind the line would
furnish a drop of the best left in the cellars
if a man could rake up an excuse to sneak
back to them.
* * * *
“Imbaga” : In the long ago, Sir William
Macgregor secured a quantity of special cocoa-
u.i'ts from the Seychelles, and had them set
out in a small plantation on one of the Bri-
tish New Guinea Government stations of
those days. By the time they were flourish-
ing there came a Resident Magistrate who
defied tradition by bringing a white wife with
him. The lady justly prided herself on her
housekeeping, and casual wayfarers were par-
ticularly eloquent on the subject of her salads.
One day the Great Man dropped in to lunch,
consumed the salads with keen appreciation,
and begged for the distinctive ingredient. A
horrid suspicion shot through him when
he was told. “An’ wheel- de ye get y r
cocoanut liairts frae?” he asked in the Scots
that he always took on when excited. ‘ On,
from a little plantation down near the
creek,” replied the lady airily. Sir Wulliam
had eaten the last of the precious Sey-
chelles stock! The old chap took it well,
but when the lady’s lord later applied for a
transfer to another C.O. job far away from
British New Guinea Macgregor endorsed
his application with a full pen.
* * *
“C.Q.”: Hosing visitors will shortly have
to be included as amongst the sacred tradi-
tions of the navies of the world. The new
Emden twice resorted to this device to fore-
stall a rush of callers during her recent
world tour, and the French cruiser Tourville
lias just followed suit in Melbourne. Bittei
resentment was displayed by the people who
got a free shower bath, but it is
probable that the operation saved half the
crowd pushing the other half into Hobson s
Bay. When the Royal Arthur visited Aus-
tralia some 25 years ago, the ship was
thrown open for inspection while anchored
off Largs Bay. Freelance launches brought
thousands of visitors, and as there was a
heavy sea running the tars were too kind-
hearted to leave anybody pitching about
alongside. Eventually the vessel became a
congealed mass of humanity incapable ol
advancing or retreating a step, lhe tern
perature between decks stood at over 1 •
deg., and fainting women and abandoned,
babifes were being continuously passed o\ ei
the sea of heads. It only needed some prac-
tical joker to shout “Fire!’ for a hrst-elas*
naval disaster to have occurred.
* * * *
“Miro”: Some of these people who mys-
teriously disappear merely take on a n
identity elsewhere. A Sydney citizei
bered among his near neighbors a sma 1 m«
with a large and ill-tempered wit . 1
lady could be heard doors away reviling ne
meek husband, and when one day he d
come home to the usual tirade a sympathetic
neighborhood decided he had committed
suicide to escape his bondage. t
suspected foul play, and the po c I
several fruitless weeks in an endpayo
locate him or his remains. Aftei y
the lady sold up the house, collected her
possessions and went to her people in »
land, where she married again Last year
the erstwhile neighbor spent a ' ‘ j,,
Queensland, and, strolling down the g
street of a Wayback township, he notim
a familiar figure polishing a si p .j
It was the missing man, now ™ l ' n i , I ” ie(J an d
fruit business. He also was m* - oug
had a couple of children. In aunta nt,
sphere he had been a successfu wJIO
but lie assured the Sydney v y
promised secrecy, that he nt lianas
in three rooms behind the tie
and cauliflowers. , r . ,
THE WILD BOHEMIAN BOYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We splashed at silly pictures and we boiled
our pots of rhymes,
The police knew all our habits and they
winked their eyes at times;
Our hunting ground was Darlingliurst, we
made it share our joys ;
Many a joint around Macleay-street knew
the wild Bohemian boys !
We abode in dusty attics, two-roomed flats
around the Cross;
Visitors on Friday evenings often staggered
in to doss,
With some dead marines and crayfish—and
some headaches when they woke!
And not a drop to drink because the boys
were always broke!
Oh, we seldom paid the butcher and we never
paid the rent;
Our financial ways were crazy ; God knows
where the money went!
When we parted with a picture or a rhyme
for £ s. d-
’Twas a time for loud rejoicing and for
going on the spree.
Jazz and song and outright bedlam made
the rafters fairly roar.
When an irritated tenant would come knock-
ing at the door,
How we’d hush before embarking on another
burst of noise!
Oh, you couldn’t damp the ardor of the wild
Bohemian boys !
There were little alley cafes that were grog-
shops on the sly ;
If we left with bulging pockets no one
asked the reason why.
Saveloys would furnish supper after mid-
night in the street,
And I fear our voices sounded as unsteady as
our feet.
We’d go singing through the shadows, minus
collars, ties and hats,
Making nightmare pandemonium in more
Bohemian flats.
There was bound to be some party that would
greet us with a cheer
If we had the proner password—an unfail
ing one was “Beer !”
Now I own a Campsie cottage and a wife
and kids as well,
But the moon’s a witch at midnight and
she makes your fancy dwell
With a pensive yearning sometimes on these
harum-scarum joys,
On a night in wild Bohemia with the wild
Bohemian boys!
N.S.W.
GILBERT MANT.


“Lex”: “Centurion’s” par. on the rigid
conservatism of the British Army (B.
4/9/’29) recalls a remark I heard while
undergoing my musketry course under a
Tommy sarn major on Salisbury Plain.
“Why is the wooden part of a rifle made of
walnut?” our instructor inquired one day.
“For elasticity,” replied one Digger. “For
strength,” essayed another. “For lightness,”
ventured a third, and then we gave it up.
Picking up the rifle and patting the wooden
parts the sarnmajor told us impressively and
authoritatively: “The reason we have walnut
in our rifles should be known to you all.
It is because that is the wood laid down in
King’s Regulations.”
* * * *
“Yunta”: An ordeal which might have
prostrated a more sanguine person ended
when George Aiston, of Kopperamanna
station, Central Australia, returned Jacky
and Sandy, the two Arunta tribesmen,
to their native habitat after their long
stay in Melbourne as chief exhibits in
the abo. art exhibition. Sandy elected
to be set down at Port Augusta, so
that he could work his own way home
through the intervening tribes, while Jacky
was left at Marree. One result of Alston’s
enterprise will probably be a book on
the central tribes. He has an extra-
ordinarily intimate knowledge of them, and
a vivid style of narration. One of his first-
hand discoveries concerning abo. methods of
handling flints caused furious argument in
Victorian ethnological circles. if true, it
destroys the whole basis set by stay-at-home
WITH QUALIFICATIONS.
DAPHNE: “But, Tessa dear, you surely wouldn’t marry a spend-
thrift?”
TESSA: “Might! Depends on how much he had to spend.”
scientists for computing the antiquity of
primitive culture, not only in Australia,
but elsewhere.
* * * *
“P.M.”: Speaking of rapid promotions, I
know a man who went from corporal to cap-
tain in six months. This was the late Captain
G. c. Wilson, a D.C.M. winner, who was one
of the first hatch of infantrymen sent over to
England to be trained as pilots in the Flying
Corps, On graduating as a flying officer he
automatically gained his commission, and in
six months his capabilities brought him a
flight-commander’s appointment. He sur-
vived a good issue of air fighting in France,
and was killed in a motor accident in N S.W.
a few mouths ago. On the other hand,
I know one man who was a corporal for
considerably longer than five years. Be-
fore the war he was a volunteer in tne
engineers; he obtained his two stripes ana
stuck to them for 15 years. In 1916 he
sailed as sergeant-major to a technical unit.
To mention his 15 years as a corporal in
his hearing always earned the offender a
week in the sanitary fatigue squad.
“Sclinorrer”: “Stickybeak” (B. 11/9/ 29)
ignores the Jewish aversion to proselytism
when he asserts that there are many people
who are Jews in faith but not in race. The
rules are strict on the subject; the Betli
Din has to be convinced that the proselyte
desires admission to the fold because of
sincere conviction, and is actuated by no
ulterior motives. The admission, when it
occurs, is usually one of a non-Jew who has
married a Jewess; in that case the chUdren
can be admitted as members of the Syna-
gogue, but where it is the mother who is
non-Jewish there is a bar to eligibility.
There have, of course, been notable converts
to .Tudaisim ; but they are comparatively rare.
:!t * * *
“Query”: “Camelhump” asks which
machine could do a tighter loop than a
Camel (B. 28/8/’29). I can remember seeing
practically every type of plane in use during
the war looped—S.K.S.A.’s, Avros, Sopwiths,
Pups, Bristol Fighters and even the humble
B.E.2E,—but never the Camel. In my
opinion the Pup could do the tightest loop
of all. I have seen them looped at a less
height than 300 ft.
:'c 'A* # *
“W.1.U.”: Even though he did lately
reprove barrister Harry Edwards for saying
that somebody or other would have to “do
a devil of a lot” of something or other, Judge
Coyle has no prejudices in favor of academic
English. One Ileimbuck was conducting his
own appeal at Broken Hill against a con
viction for having an illicit still in his posses-
sion. His contention was that he did not
know what he was making when a pattern of
a still was brought to him to make another
like it, but the prosecution pointed out that
the fact of his being in possession of the
forbidden article was the only thing thus,
mattered. Turning to the appellant Coyle
said: “I’m inclined to believe your story.
ITeimbuck. but you see the Law’s agin you.”
Even a Chinaman could liardly have “no
saveed” that.
$ ❖ * ❖
“Cliev.”: An extraordinary situation has
occurred at the Hume reservoir (Vic.).
Although served with plenty of notice, land-
owners hung on to the last before removing
their stock and possessions to higher ground
when the waters began to rise, consequent
upon the closing of the enormous barrage
across the Murray and Mitta Mitta. Simul-
taneously, exceptionally heavy rains brought
down a flood, and the roads leading out of
the doomed area presented a spectacle remi-
niscent of Flanders when the Germans were
advancing. Farmers’ lorries loaded with their
goods and chattels were passed by motorists
driving in the opposite direction, unaware
that the roads were steadily going under
water. Some of the old homesteads, aban-
doned long ago, are sinking beneath the tide,
carrying their old furnishings with them.
}|:
“Shop” : The most profane warrior I ever
encountered wasn’t a Digger; he was a
youthful Scotch officer, C.O. of the first
Tank we got <i
close-up view of.
Tin* monster was
floundering around
in a muddy, sun-
ken road near
Flers, and every
order directed at
the perspiring crew
was appreciatively
criticised by the big
audience of Diggers
coming out of the
line. When they
eventually ran out
of petrol, the officer
marched his tank
crew through lines
of A.I.F. men, who
vied with one an-
other in expressing
genuine admiration
of his vocabulary.
The dapper Scotch-
man was the first
into the tank next
morning, and, just
as we expected
things to move, was
first to spring out
of the tiny side
door. Within a few
minutes he had
eclipsed his lan-
guage efforts of the
night before, and
after consigning the
whole A.I.F. to the
Bottomless Pit he
departed. When the
air cleared w e
learnt from the
tank crew that the
inevitable souvenir-
hunter had gouged
out a neat shield
from the coupe r
petrol tank, fitted
right in the bowels
of the craft, appar-
ently unconcerned
about putting the
tank out of action
for over a day.
“Kayeff”: Touching that ever-recurring
difficulty which dates back to the building-
of the Tower of Babel. I once wanted a
table built to a special design for me by a
Japanese carpenter in the Islands. As he had
no English and I had no Japanese, I
rounded up another carpenter, a Hawaiian,
who had, before acquiring a Gilbertese wife,
resided in New Caledonia. To him I gave
all directions in the limited French at my
command, and he passed them on to the Jap
in a mixture of Gilbertese and sign language,
The result was a table as correct as if it
had been made from a blue-print,
* * * * ,
“Avon : The search for the philosopher’s
stone continues. Two reputable gentlemen
of Christchurch (M.E.) claim that after In
years of laboratory research, on which
£lO,OOO has been spent, they have succeeded
in transmuting “certain elements” into gold
by the aid of a mysterious “electro-magnetic
force 10 times more powerful than elec-
tricity, and associated with the force of
gravitation.” This new form of energy,
termed by its discoverers “chromadyne, is
said to be capable of “giving any color or
shade of electric light, through all depths or
colors of the spectrum, including black.
There’s nothing given out about the cost ol
SOMETHING WRONG EITHER WAY.
“You know, my poor old matah says that if a girl shows her knees it shows she’s no
bally good.”
“You tell your dear old matah that if a girl doesn’t show her knees it shows her
knees are no bally good!”
transmutation. The late Herr Miete, who
claimed to have transmuted mercury into
gold, admitted it cost £2OO an ounce, which
was 50 times as much as it was worth, but,
of course, he didn’t know anything about the
force that can produce a black light. Further-
more, he was neither an “electro-chemist ’
nor a solicitor —the professions of the two
Maoriland wonder-workers.
sit * *
“C.Q.” : When a statue to the “Founder of
Mildura” was unveiled at that irrigation
centre recently the face and figure of A\ . B.
Chaffey were revealed. They should have
been those of George, his brother. It is true,
certainly, that W.B. stayed on and stood by
the settlement during its years of misfortune,
while George departed to manifest more
interest in Renmark and Werribee; but that
was not due to George’s loss of confidence in
the future of the enterprise. W.B. himself
never claimed responsibility for Mildura.
When a Royal Commission asked him in
1896, “Why did you come to select this
particular locality for an irrigation settle-
ment?” he replied, “Mr. George Chaffey
selected it before my arrival in the colony.”
3S * * *
“P.X.”: This is an office secret. Since
The Bulletin opened its Novel Competi-
tion, five people have asked whether they
might enter without disclosing their true
names —except in confidence, to someone or
other, who could then satisfy the judges
that they were eligible. Of the five, three
were scientists, two of them men with more
than an Australian reputation. All three
of them declared that to have their names
attached to works of fiction would do in-
calculable damage to their authority as
scientists. Two of them said almost exactly
the same thing: “Twenty years hence it will
be different. By then the world may know
that the reason why science made so little
progress for so long was because it had no
imagination.” It looks as though the dis-
covery may arrive in less than 20 years.
At any rate, in the U.S.A., where tremen-
dous efforts are being ’ made to keep the
man-on-tlie-land on the land, a great pro-
gramme of research work is being mapped
out; and it is officially announced that “the
most brilliantly imaginative group of men
available” will be put on to the job. Which
recalls that when a Bulletin “Wild Cat
man long ago asked Colonel Burns, the
great builder of the great firm of Burns
Philp and Co., what quality he thought of
most importance in business, “Imagination—
yes, certainly imagination,” the dour Scot
answered.
3! * * *
“Meteren” : I have very grave suspicions
about the spells cast by Romany lasses, but
no doubts whatever about the marvellous
quickness of their hands. Six of us in a
motor showroom handed in a couple ot
notes each and surrounded an elderly witch
whilst she palavered over mystic signs and
the reading of our futures. Not one of us
took his eyes off her hands, yet after she’d
departed in a dilapidated Ford, leaving our
cash piled up in a heap, one of the notes
had vanished. The boss reckoned it was lucky
she hadn’t waved her hands over his new
shipment of cars.
* 3: 3: 3:
“F'.S.”; The 1800 pounds of cement em-
balming the hand and footprints of Clara
Row, Adolphe Menjou and other darlings of
the ’screen, which is said to have been
imported to Melbourne, is in my opinion
merely a surface indication of a much deeper
thing. For years we have been watching
what is really the growth of a new religious
cult —the only religion the modern materialis-
tic multitude knows. In U.S.A., the cult s
Holy Land, while a screen star lives his
every action is regarded as a matter of
national importance. When he dies a wave,
of intense emotion sweeps oyer the land.
Valentino’s body lay in state in N York for
three days, and millions filed past the
corpse. His latest wife, as a sort of priestess
of Isis, made a small fortune by keeping m
touch with him after he reached the other
world. The idea of sacrifice being inherent
in every religion, when a female star grows
too old and is dashed from her pedestal there
is an outbreak of orgiastic pity similar to
the ancient Syrian ceremonies connected with
the annual hanging or crucifying of a god.
Genuine relics of the lady command fabulous
prices and there are factories exclusively
devoted to the trade. There are as many
cigarette-holders alleged to have touched the
sacred lips of Miss Flibberty Gibbet as there
used to be fragments of the true Cross.
Having no stars of its own. Australia has
to import the footprints of Clara Bow, just
as Ceylon, Java, Siam, Cambodia and a
hundred other places imported Buddha’s
teeth. The temples we erect over our relics
are far more splendid, though.
* * * *
“Velvet Ned”: Touching that “box of
canaries,” underworld slang for a “cash
register” (B. 28/8/’2y), when I was in the
burglary business we always called a cash
register a “dong peter.” The “dong"
suggests the musical note sounded when the
“peter” is opened. A crowbar, by the way.
was always a “james” to us, a more dignified
term than “jemmy.” Burglary was a "bust,
a safe a “tank,” a key a “twirl,” and a
flight of stairs the “dancers.” The principal
bedroom in a house was “the main dab. ’ 1
wonder how many could tell you how the
phrase “giving the office” arose. “Ware
house!” was the old warning, and from
“ware house” to “office,” was an easy and
natural transition.
* * * *
“Hinemoa” : In Maoriland’s recent ’quake
an area of land nearly 18 miles in length
and 50 in width was thrust up by titanic
forces from below. The elevation is not
uniform; the maximum is over 16ft., and
the upthrow was towards the east, in accord-
ance with the usual direction of Maoriland
earth movements. The ’55 ’quake did not
elevate any land more than Oft.
% * *
“C.Q.”: Now that Victoria’s Shrine of
Remembrance is nearing completion a dis-
cussion has arisen as to how best to cornmem-
morate the men for whom it is being erected.
The R.S.L. has moved against a proposal to
inscribe the names of all the State’s dead on
it, for the reason that some died before they
left Australia and it is impossible to dis-
entangle real .achievement from accident.
Another suggestion is that the names of all
those who enlisted should be immortalised,
but the shrine isn’t big enough. A third
proposition is that Victoria should emulate
France and Britain and bury an Unknown
Warrior. But if Vic. buries its Unknowm
Soldier, the other five States, not to mention
the territories, will feel constrained to do
likewise and the idea will lose all dignity.
If there is to be such a ceremony, it should be
a national one; and the time for it has
passed.
The dozen superb drawings which Norman
Lindsay did to illustrate “The Quarter-
master” have been reproduced in two-tone
ink on art paper, and are now on sale at The
Bulletin’s chief office, Sydney, and at all
branch offices. The complete set of one
dozen drawings costs only 25., and to put
country subscribers on the same, footing as
those of the cities, the set will be sen! post-
free from the head office to any address in
Australasia.
ICHABOD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The police raided the Greek Club in Castlereagh-
street, Sydney, and arrested 80 gamblers, the biggest
bag for some years except at two-up schools. It
took the patrol cars an hour to convey all the men
to the Central Police Station.”
“The isles of Greece! the isles of Greece.
Including Ithaca and Delos,
Scio, where Homer spoke his piece,
And Crete that nurtured Venizelos.
Let Byron’s verse be quoted yet
Lest peradventure we forget
The walloping that Xerxes got
At Salamis upon the sea,
And where was Marathon, and what
Immortalised Thermopylge.
For here, ’tis clear, Hellenes outnumbered
By ten to one the cops that lumbered.
You might have quaffed the Samian wine
Or mingled in the Pyrrhic dance
And never risked arrest and fine,
But these forbidden games of chance
Involve, when you import them here,
“For Greeks a blush—for Greece a tear."
You taught the world the arts of peace.
War, painting, sculpture and what not.
Now into vans by stern police
Lo! you’re incontinently shot,
A singularly heavy price
For gently agitating, dice.
Go, traveller, and at Athens tell
That still her sons her glories dream 0n....
It might be inadvisable
To mention, though, at Lacedaemon
You saw them pinched by scores because
They fractured anti-gambling law's.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


w
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDEK, Hon. J. A. BOYD,
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
Jl) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders. (3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sur. assured and no
the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost eveiy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
GEO. P.RUCE SMITH, General Manaeer.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Heis Majesty's “The Five-o’clock Girl”
Royal “It Pavs to Advertise”
Criterion “Lombardi, Ltd.”
Tivoli .... Vaudeville
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Show Boat”
Royal “Journey’s End”
King’s “Whoopee”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
“Charley’s Aunt” is being monkey-glanded
by Frank Neil, M.D., F.R.C.S., at Melbourne
Palace. The Palace presentation almost
amounts to an Australian translation. It
would be interesting to see how Mr. Neil
would do Shakspeare.
Othello-Neil. “Therefore confess thee freely
of thy sin ;
For to deny each article with oath
Cannot remove nor choke the strong concep-
. tion
That I do groan withal. Thou art to die.”
Desdemona-Molloy. “My Gawd i You don’t
mean it!”
Othello. “Too right, I don’t!”
Desdemona. “And have you mercy too !”
Othello. “Not in these trousers!”
(Hits her over the head with a hot-water
bottle.)
Writer offers the idea to Neil, subject to a
one per cent, royalty.
* * *
Gwyneth Lascelles ran through the gamut
of emotion as Magnolia of the “Show Boat”
crew at Melbourne Majesty’s on Saturday,
and a packed house voted the performance
admirable. Gwyneth is a demure, gentle
little thing of 18 years who, until a few
months ago, was performing for Manly
amateurs. Her chance came when Nydia
d’Arnell received such a tempting offer from
America that the Taits magnanimously re-
leased her from the rest of her engagement.
At least, so ran the press reports, though a
sophisticated playgoer might not have been
surprised by another explanation for her re-
tirement from a role in which The Bulletin
found her quite inadequate. The new lady is
distinctly pleasing, without being overwhelm-
ing. She has a delightfully fresh-tinted voice, a
feature that her predecessor so conspicuously
lacked that one could not help wondering
whether the person who selected her wasn’t
colorblind at the moment, musically speaking.
In addition, Miss Lasceiles has an innate
MARY LAM SON, the young English actress who is to help
Frith in the Sydney Majesty’s show, “Hold Everything.”
simplicity of demeanor and a self-controlled
delivery which are in keeping with the role
she has been suddenly called upon to play.
The part of Magnolia is a difficult proposi-
tion. It demands pathos, some dramatic-
intensity and a lightness of touch appro-
priate to musical comedy. Miss Lascelles
meets these requirements with artistic
restraint, where more hardened performers
would be sure to overdo things.
Australian soprano Florence Austral, who
is booked for a concert tour here early next
year, is leading figure in the world’s most
remarkable drama of the moment. With her
husband, John Amadio, she was in America
when she was engaged to sing at the “Three
Choirs Festival” at Worcester, one of Eng-
land’s chief musical events of the year.
Terms were fixed, her name was advertised
for the show, and she went to England and
commenced rehearsals for the “Messiah. ’
Then the Anglican Cathedral authorities
banned her —according to cables, on the
strength of her name having appeared in
divorce proceedings. Since then Amadio and
the newspapers have held the centre of the
stage. Amadio’s lines include threats of
legal proceedings. He points out that he
was divorced from his first wife before he
met the Australian singer, and that his first
wife has since married. “Intensely inhuman,”
he declares, and thereby wins much applause:
the London Daily , Express, for instance,
describes the banning as “an exhibition of
hypocritical intolerance such as one hopes
will never again be seen on English soil.”
Miss Austral had previously sung at the
Leeds and Norwich festivals and from church
platforms in America, where during most of
the past year she had had great success. She
is now booked for another American season.
Leon Gordon goes from good to a bit better
at Sydney Royal in a revival of “It Pays
to Advertise,” three acts of polished farce,
with a leaven of sentiment and an abundance
of laughs. As an advertising expert, Ambrose
Peale, he supplies a first-rate interpretation
of infectious farce, and again proves him-
self one of the best comedy actors on the
Australian stage. His strongest support is
given by Mayne Lynton, as the soap-magnate,
who wants liis son to turn out better than
the son of the rival soap-house, and is aided
by his typist in inducing the young man
to set up in business on his own account.
The story has some ingenious twists before
the tyro, with the help of the ad. export,
succeeds in selling to the old firm the trade-
mark of a soap that doesn’t exist; but the
entertainment lies almost wholly in the
padding—smart wisecracks that go off in
volleys and salvos. Eileen. Sparks lives up
to the second half of her name in the part
of a French-comtesse-confidence lady. Mary
MacGregor and Sam Wren are a satisfactory
pair of lovers, and the farce is neatly pro-
duced by Gregan McMahon.
* * *
The Melbourne Judge who mentioned in
the course of a case the other day that the
owners of legitimate houses might have
themselves to blame for the popularity of the
movies, he having gone to a legit, show and
been bored stiff,
could not have been
referring to the per-
formance at Syd-
ney Tivoli last
.week, though that
variety house has
had some pretty
dull bills in past
months. The Tivoli
Follies are miles
ahead of ordinary
knoekabout vaude-
ville, chiefly owing
to English comedi-
an .Tack Edge’s
leading and the
dancing of the Fal-
low Twins.
Martyn, Florence
and Martin, new
recruits to the Mel-
bourne house, jug-
gle amusingly with
various appurten-
ances of the tennis
court, including
whisky bottles. The
bill has been fur-
ther reinforced by
the twinkling feet
and pleasant Scots
accent of the Dan-
cing Danburys,.
whose turn is so
quiet as to con-
stitute a rest cure.
Walter Richard-
son, the colored
tenor, continues to
air an expressive
voice, inclined to
antediluvian roar-
ing in the lower
register; and the
return of the
Creightons,
Blanche and Jim,
brings back one of
the most convin-
cing strfflies of senility seen outside a Legis-
lative Council for years.
¥ ¥
Five orchestral concerts having occurred in
a week, musical Melbourne is momentarily
glutted and there were large yawning spaces
at the Auditorium on Saturday night when
Spivakovsky appeared with Bernard Heinze’s
University brigade. Nevertheless, the orches-
tra has not done anything better than its
playing of the Mozart concerto in A major,
whose clear-cut rhythms are harder to give
significance to than much more pretentious
music. The tremendous succession of encores
which followed Spivakovsky’s athletic playing
of the Hungarian Rhapsody of Liszt threw
the programme out of gear and the perform-
ance of Rimsky-Korsakoff’s Grande Paque
Russe was like serving a second roast after
the dessert has been discussed.
* ¥ #
Not everything that could and should be
made in this country is on view at the All-
Australian Exhibi-
tion at the Exhibi-
tion Building, Mel-
bourne, but thef'j
is a big advance on
last year, when
nearly a million
people rolled up to
■ see the fun. A dis-
play which bulks
large is the Larkin
Aircraft Supply
Co.’s stand, domi-
nated by the gigan-
tic silver wings of
the locally-built Las-
c o t e r monoplane,
which carries four
passengers' and is
built seven times as
strongly as it need
be for normal flight.
Thus are the timid
who refuse to credit
the remark able
statistics concern-
ing the security
of aerial travel
tempted to em-
bark. Nor can any-
body resist the logic
of this appeal which
is attached to the
machine : “If Aus-
tralia were threat-
ened with invasion,
which of these Aus-
tralian-made com-
modities would you
prefer she would be
able to produce at
a pinch—-BEER
or Aeroplanes ? Aus-
tralian-made beer
is protected by
Australian - made
law with an import
duty, but the Aus-
tralian-made aero-
plane ds without
protection of any
kind apart from its
own Australian morale.” Politicians seeking
the suffrages of the people in the forthcoming
election, please note.
In the basement is an interesting show',
comprising a detailed anatomical display of
the progress of jumbuck’s body-covering from
the sheep’s to the people’s back. A long,
lank shearer, specially selected for his exact
faithfulness to Leason’s creation of the type,
shears the animal’s fleece with a pair of
electrically-driven knives made by the G.
Munro Pty., Ballarat; Australian-made
machinery driven by belting manufactured
by James Munday and Co., of Sydney, Mel-
bourne and other places, seizes the product,
beats, presses, pats and teases it until it is
ready to enter a drying machine from the
factory of J. C. Brown, Geelong; thence it
emerges to go through further processes that
reduce it to many-colored threads, which a
girl, dressed in Australian clothes, feeds into
a machine w'hose fingers are even more un-
cannily intelligent than her own; whence
it emerges as a brightly-patterned rug or
a length of cloth destined to cover an Aus-
tralian back. This exhibit, which displays
the insignia of companies hailing from nearly
every Australian State, is almost 50 yards
long.
The Forests Commission of Victoria has
its usual enchanting display of native woods,
which, in their finished state, are even more
worthy of a discriminating poet’s pen than
when they were growing in the bush. Hunt-
ington willow is showm in the process of
being converted into bats with which cen-
turies will be scored in due course at the
M.C.C., Woop Woop and other famous spots.
Here, too, are motor-body frames which
demand more of the mountain ash than the
English yeoman’s bow asked of the yew.
One notes, in passing, the fine, clean exhibit
of Staley hose; also the elegance of Fayre-
field hats. A little further on the booth of
the Botany Knitting Mills, with its gay
beach outfits, brings a breath of Sydney
spring. Around the corner is Bysouth’s
steel furniture, with its strength, hygienic
appearance and its essentially modern and
European, if angular, grace. After you have
got used to it it is infinitely to be preferred
to the dull plagiarisms of dead Western
styles made by the conservative Celestial
cabinetmakers of Little Bourke. An Austin
coupe, encased in Fabrex, the new Australian
leather-cloth, has all the comfortable home-
liness of a Gladstone bag.
If there is anything to cavil at, it is that
the manufacturers are making no attempt
as yet to develop a native style. An Aus-
tralian, dressed in Australian clothes, would
not excite comment if he were miraculously
transported to a street corner in Madrid.
New York or Monte Video. It is
fairly easy to recognise an Australian poem,
picture or piece of prose, and there is no
doubt about Australian speech; but the
makers of pots, pans, garden implements,
pianolas and pants are content to copy stale
European modes. There is no reason why
a hairpin should not be as distinctively and
beautifully Australian as a Japanese teapot
is Japanese.
FLORENCE AUSTRAL, barred from singing at the Worcester
(Eng.) Cathedral festival because her name had been
mentioned in a divorce case.
Sydney State can genuinely boast a “com-
plete change” from its bill of last week—
two of the dullest movies The Bulletin
had ever seen have made way for two fine
entertainers, “The Perfect Crime” and “The
River of Romance.” Maurice-Chevalier, in
“Innocents of Paris,” is still, going strong
at the Prince Edward; likewise “The Sing-
ing Fool” at the St. James. At the Regent
“The Broadway Melody” has put up a new
record for the house, but is about to fade
away.
¥ * *
Jim Gerald’s programme for his farewell
week at Sydney Fullers is chiefly vaudeville,
with Gerald and Reg Hawthorne prominent
among the male members of the show, Petty
Craydon and Essie Jennings among the
sterner sex, and Ron Shand and Joan
Graham dancing cleverly. Next Friday
Fred Forbes’s “Funbeams” will take the
flu re.
¥ * *
“Dancing Partners,” this week’s Nellie
Bramley offering at Brisbane Royal, is quite
a successful comedy, concerned with the
affair of a French actress and her Puritan
lever. The mother, exceptionally prim and
proper old lady, goes to Paris to meet her
future daughter-in-law, and the gaiety of the
place converts her. “Uncle Tom’s Cabin"
is billed for next week.
His Majesty’s next Saturday will have the
J.C.W. show “No. 17.”
“The Five-o’clock Girl,” which brought
Alfred Frith back to Sydney Majesty’s, is
due to end after an only moderate run. If
is a very lightweight offering after the
sheiky show and the massive “Vagabond
King” that had close to record runs imme-
diately before it. With its end Gus Bluett
goes temporarily out of musicomedy—billed
for a run on the Tiv. circuit. The new
Majesty’s show, “Hold Everything.” will
have Frith and the lately imported English
actress Mary Lawson to handle the leading
lines.
At the Cri. Leo Carrillo’s perfect woman s
show, “Lombardi, Ltd.,” is packing the
house. Carrillo is ‘a rare comedian, as live
as lightning. The piece permits him to jetti-
son any incidental he might get tired of, and
sundry slight changes keep freshening the
performance. It is the only show for ages
that this Showman has had any hankering
to see twice.
The newspaper play, “The Front Page,
is the I’laybox’s new offering. It opens
to-night ( Wednesday).


/
m
■
m
%
•"'
»
/
■f
/
p»
y
a
*
■
■<
n
H
BHHH
w
9
1
H
V
■
H
SI
■
M
h
:
■
■
Hi
111
■ 1
: '/v-
V
a
:. ••;•. - ; :
m
i .<
■
.
I
m
'
wm
u
■Hi
■
Hi
■■■
■
1 i
Hi
'
, m
■
’■■ .
:.
'
m
ml
H I
■
mtim
■t
• ■ .
SH
• I ■
I■
■
m
«
i
■
ail
■
1 Ii
:•• V:,: :
H
.
HI
■
:
■
m
;■
■
“Mummy says —
‘What about your Wolfe’s Schnapps?
WOLFE’S
AROMATIC SCHIEDAM
SCH NAPPS
“As good for Women as for Men 99


r°ne° BRITISH
Du plicator
m
produces
actual
typewritten
letters in
unlimited
quantities.
21 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
The “Explosives” House
Explosives and Accessories of All Kinds
Supplied at Lowest Prices.
Manufacturers of
RENDROCK,
The Safest, Cheapest and Most Effective High Explosive Known.
Can be forwarded by Rail or Steamer at ordinary rates of freight.
Blasting Machines, Steel Rock Drills.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company, Limited.
Founded 1886.
Assets at 31st December, 1928,
£18,792,732
of which 84% was represented by
Public Securities.
The M.L.C. Charter is constituted to
admit of the issue of policies to meet
the necessities of every class, every age.
every purse. Its range of contracts is
unsurpassed for diversity and liberality,
and the fulfilment of every contract is
guaranteed by the Company's capital
1 and its ever-increasing assurance Funds.
CASH SURPLUS in the Ordinary
Branch for the year 1928, £624,370.
ARTHUR HEDY,
Managing Director.
Head Office: Citizens’ Building, Castiereagb
Street and Martin Place, Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Gas Light Co.
Dividends. To Re- Re-
June, Profits. (All Shares). serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 86,627 6 p.c. = 91,800 11,501
1919.. 138,945 81 „ „ 137,210 1,735 13,236
1920.. 155,843 8 .. ~ 153,892 1,951 15,187
1921.. 183,978 8 „ ~ 170,574 13,404 28,591
1922.. 182,973 8 , v „ 173,621 9,352 37.943
1923.. 168,721 8 195.660 11,004
1924.. 239,804 8 ~ 216,921 22,883 33,887
1925.. 232,918 8 „ .. 237,752 29,053
1926.. 259,169 8 ~ ~ 261,109 -- 27,113
1927.. 291,913 8 „ „ 282,756 9,157 36,270
1928.. 348,362 8 „ ~ 303,316 45,046 81.316
1929.. 278,182 8 ~ „ 324,204 35,294
Stoppage of coal supplies from the Maitland
i_eld was mainly responsible for the sharp
contraction of £70,180 in last year’s net earn-
ings. These were £46,022 short of the
standard 8 p.c. div. requirements, so the
divisible profits account was dipped into for
that amount, reducing the balance to £35,294.
Incidentally, the balance of this account,
shown as reserves in the table, is the only
store of surplus earnings available for adjust-
ing the div. to the standard rate when trad-
ing results fail to measure up to require-
ments. But shareholders need have no un-
easiness because of that. The Gas Act pro-
vides for application to tlie Court and an
adjustment of price when costs endanger the
8 p.c. It is now plain from the figures that
such a state of affairs exists, so presently
the consumer is to be asked for more in order
to help the co. bear the. burden. The present
price is ss. 9d. per 1000 c.f.
This comparison of revenue and expend!
lure shows where the trouble lies:—
Revenue — 1922. 1928. 1929.
(his .. .. £1,518,809 £1,962,392 £2,000,524
Meter rents .. 21,824 26,874 26,712
Residuals .. 129,247 239,779 216,312
K xpendi lure—
Gas manufacture.. 910,388 1,003,784 1,029,450
Distribution . . 281,834 406,472 454,443
Public lamps . . 16,460 1,753 1,331
Rents, rates and
taxes . . . . 48,758 113,597 101,546
Management . . 37,47+ 45,034 46,285
Bad debts, etc... 8,399 30,556 33,818
Gas sales turned in an extra £38,132 last
year, but that gain was largely offset by a
shrinkage of £23,407 in the. return from by-
products, due chiefly to curtailment of ser-
vices by Sydney Ferries, Ltd., who were the
largest consumers of the co.’s coke. The net,
increase in the year’s revenue from all
sources (£2,277,254) was £16,620. But the
cost of manufacture and distribution climbed
£73,637, mounting to 4s. 3d. per 1000 c.f. of
gas sold as against 4s. Id. for the previous
year. Management and other charges were
£7960 lighter.
Ji'ow much the co. is *pa.yhig for its coal
the “Wild Gat” does not know. But £21,903
vas charged against the special purposes
fund on account of the added cost of using
other than tlie Maitland product. This amount
is equal approximately to fd. per 1000 c.f.. so
it by no means represents the full increase
in costs. The co.’s big plant is specially
designed to treat Maitland coal, and the
quality of supplies _ recently obtained has
been such that, despite the use of all avail-
able equipment, sufficient gas to meet
demands could not always he produced. And
the quality of gas produced is poor, so that
the consumer lias to pay for the madness in
the coal trade even before the price of gas
is put up.
A feature of this and other gas cos.’ activi-
ties which still calls for State encourage-
ment is the recovery and sale of by-products.
This has a very real effect upon the cost of
gas-production, and therefore upon the price
of gas. The shrinkage in the returns from
residuals last year was equal to over fd.
per 1000 c.f. One way in which the Govern-
ment could immediately help would be
through the use of more local tar for road
making.
During the year 35,000 new £6 shares
were auctioned and realised a shade under
£< each. That made paid capital £4,110,000,
and total premium receipts £187,119, at June
00. In addition an extra £33,314 was tacked
on to the loan capital (£2,197,250), which
is costing the co. from 44 p.c. to 7 p.c. The
<4 miles, of mains and 59 miles of services
]aid during the term called for £180,785 of
the fresh capital, and £101,122 was spent on
new plant, meters, etc.
With plant and equipment of one kind and
another in at £5,(03,390, the call for deprecia-
tion is loud. The next comparison shows
what has been done lately in the way of
renewals, etc., to counterbalance wear and
tear: —
Charged Total at
Against Revenue. Credit of Fund.
1920 .. £60,000 £ 138,788
1923 . . 100,000 187,792
1924 . . 100,000 200,421
1925 105,000 182,158
1926 .. 130,000 216,585
1927 . . 170,000 292,737
1928 . . 180,189 282,990
1929 .. 193,000 197,093
Under the (las Act revenue can be charged
with 34 p.c. of the capital outlay on pre-
mises and plant. Last year's appropriation
was about £29,000 inside that limit. The
actual expenditure on replacements, etc., dur-
ing the year (£256,993) was £67,057 heavier
than in the previous term. That reduced the
amount at credit of the fund to less than
half the statutory maximum. The new gas-
holder and boosting station at Alexandria
was recently put into commission, and the
one at Canterbury will shortly be ready. Also
a site for the new by-products plant is being
prepared.
Since all new shares have to be auctioned.
there arc no sweets for holders on tlie regis-
ter in the shape of new issues at par. The
market, however, looks upon the S p.c. div.
as pretty well secured, and pays £7 ss, for
the scrip. The return at that price is 6.6 p.c.
Federal Mutual Insurance Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 4,219 10 p.c. = 4,039 180 10,742
Premiums on new shares, £2822 . . 13,564
1920.. 9,123 10 p.c. = 4,843 4,280 17,844
Premiums on new shares, £3166 . . 21,010
1921.. 13,010 10 p.c. == 5,408 7,602 28,612
Premiums on new shares, £7491 . . 36,103
1922.. 7,130 10 p.c. = 7,130 36,103
Premiums on new shares. £l2lO .. 37,313
1923.. 5,351 7 p.c. 5,159 192 37,505
1924.. 6,600 8 „ „ 5,896 745 38,209
1925.. 8,613 8 „ „ 6,115 2,498 40,707
Freeholds written up, £lB,OlO . . 58,717
Premiums on new shares, £422 . . 59,139
1926.. 15,183 10 p.c. = 8,422 6,761 65,900
Premiums on new shares, £1677 . . 67,577
1927.. 17,283 10 p.c. = 8,899 8,384 75,961
Premiums on new shares, £3175 . . 79,136
1928.. 20,257 10 p.c. •= 9,582 10,675 89,811
Premiums on new shares, £3895 . . 93,706
1929.. 9,602 10 p.c. 10,199 93,109
Heavy losses and a discouraging growth in
exes, were responsible for last year’s dis-
appointing figures. Profits fell away to 9.4
p.c. on average capital compared with 21.1.
19.4, 18 and 11.2 p.c. back'to 1925. So, to
repeat the 10 p.c. div., the board dipped
into reserves for £597. Still, the dividend
position is much less doubtful than it used
to be. Recently the co. built itself a new
home, with plenty of letting space, in Pitt-
street, Sydney. The job was out of the
contractor’s hands shortly before the close of
accounts in 1928, and when the books were
last ruled off all the available space had been
taken. Though the co. had to go into debt
to finance the new building, interest and
rents for the 12 months to June 30 turned
in £9037 less t £l6lO taxation and charges,
or sufficient to pay 5 p.c. on total liabilities
(mortgages, overdrafts, etc.) and leave
nearly 5 p.c. on share capital.
The capital account, however, is steadily
expanding. The board’s policy has been to
get insurers as shareholders. Last year
24,685 new £1 shares were issued and called
to ss. They brought with them £3895 of
share premiums (an average of 3s. 2d. per
share), and made paid capital £101,988 m
407,951 pound shares paid to ss. Altogether
£24,346 has been gathered in share pre-
miums, so to all but old holders the 10 p.c.
div. is not quite all it looks.
This policy ought to bring in a fair
volume of select risks at a comparatively
cheap rate; but so far losses have not been
significantly low. Here is a view of the co.'s
underwriting performances over the last 10
years:—
Net Expense Loss
Premiums. Expenses. Losses. Rate. Rate.
1919. . £45,372 £27,180 £15,647 59.9 p.c. 34.5 p.c.
1920.. 54,882 29,719 18,556 54.1 „ 33.8 „
1921.. 81,501 44,211 26,633 54.2 „ 32.7 „
] 922. . 90,202 49,031 36,677 54.3 „ 40.6 „
1923.. 94,109 48,299 44.080 51.4 „ 46.7 „
1924.. 99,433 50,084 46,455 50.4 „ 46.7 ~
1926.. 92,931 47,022 39,585 50.6 „ 42.6 „
1926.. 112,150 54,258 46,905 48.4 „ 41.8 „
1927.. 143,733 53,602 75,795 37.3 „ 52.7 „
1928.. 132,372 60,201 57,363 45.4 „ 43.3 „
1929.. 140,841 65,959 72,947 46.8 „ 51.8 „
Last year’s experience was one of the worst
in the co.’s history. The underwriting sur-
plus was. only £1935, as against £14,808 for
the previous year. The ratio to net premiums
dropped to 1.4 p.c., compared with 11.3, 10,
9.8, 6.8 and 2.9 p.c. back to 1924. An
extra £4404 of gross premiums were gathered
(£239,195) ; reinsurances (£98,354) were
£4065 lighter, so net premiums benefited by
£8469. Claims took all the increase and
£7115 besides; only twice since the co. set
up 17 years ago has tlie loss rate exceeded
last year’s 51.8 p.c. Also, exes, were £5758
heavier, due, the chairman says, to further
reorganisation, the benefits of which are ex-
pected to be felt in the future. Of course,
competition is keen, and likely to remain sh,
and, on the whole, the expense rate is not
so heavy as it used to be. The average rate
for the last five years was 45.7 p.c., as
against an average of 52.8 p.c. for the pre-
ceding quinquennium. Nevertheless, the 45.7
p.c. is heavier than it ought to be.
Finances are comfortable, as this com-
parison of balance-sheet figures shows :
IQ9f» 1Q97 IQ9S IQ9Q
Paid capital.. £84,225 £88,992 £95,817 £101,988
Liabilities .. 20,110 35,826 30,371 56,598
Buildings .. 62,913 72,477 117,737 127,633
Fittings, etc. 12,849 11,564 11,891 12,540
Mortgages, etc. 21,592 17,047 22,623 22,487
Public securities 47,832 65,110 58,547 54,576
Book debts . . 24,433 43,308 37,019 42,741
Cash .. . . 9,038 171 2,504 1,916
Policy-holders are adequately protected. At
June 30 they could see net tangible assets
equal to 138 p.c. of the year’s net premium
income. That is only 12 p.c. short of what
is usually looked for, and does not take into
account £305,963 of uncalled capital. lie-
serves were 26 p.c. above the margin ordin-
arily regarded as safe.
The co.’s prospects are bright, and the
market’s opinion of the scrip is high. The
ss. paid shares are priced at lls. 3d. At
that, figure the immediate return is only
4.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis; the backing
amounts to 9s. 7d. in net tangibles. The
div. will have to go up another 24 points
to make the return at the current market
price equal to 54 p.c.
Henry Berry & Co. (Australasia), Ltd.
I -Dividends.-- Nominal
Pref. To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ ' £ . £ £
1921.. 40,329 21,394 5 p.c. = 14,700 4,235 4,235
1922.. 53,017 21,394 71 „ „ 22,050 9,573 13,808
1923.. 62,985 21,394 81 „ „ 24,990 16,601 30,409
1924.. 51,813 21,394 8* ~ ~ 24,990 5,429 35,838
1925.. 57,143 25,044 81 „ ~ 24,990 7,109 42,947
1926.. 71,335 25,462 8* ~ „ 24,990 20,883 63,830
1927.. 67,824 26,645 81 ~ „ 24,990 16,189 80,019
1928.. 71,393 31,391 8-1 ~ „ 24,990 15,012 95,031
1929.. 64,055 32,245 81 ~ ~ 24,990 6,820 101,851
Like most holding concerns, Henry Berry
does not publish the health-chart of' its sub-
sidiaries, which do a large and growing
wholesale grocery business and trade in
butchers’ supplies. throughout Australia and
Maoriland. And as its own accounts don’t
tell much more than they have to, for the
most part the investor in the shares merely
backs the management to continue handling
its difficult lines successfully.
The present co. was formed in 1920, when
tlie business of Henry Berry and Co. Pty.
in the Australian States and Maoriland was
divided up among various separate concerns.
Since then the holding co. lias handed to
the pups £267,000 of share and deposit
moneys to finance the growth of their re-
spective-businesses. Of that amount share-
holders on the pref. register put up £155,000
and depositors £50,152, the balance being
provided out of undistributed profits. The
total paid capital of the holding co. is
£754,640.
Last year drought and industrial and
other troubles compelled the public to dip
deeper into its pockets for cash and lOIJ's.
competition sharpened and margins in some
lines handled by the co. liad to be reduced.
Nevertheless, turnover in necessary com-
modities was fairly well sustained, and largo
and energetic concerns like Henry Berry
were probably able to make adjustments anil
push business in ways not available to the
small trader. In interest and divs., etc., the
pups sent in £68,754, as against £73,634 in
the previous term. But the latter figure
benefited by £lO,OOO transferred from the
Brisbane property reserve. This reserve was
the profit, or part of the profit, on the co.’s
old northern premises, which were resumed
by the civic authorities shortly before the
close of accounts in 1927. Disregarding the
transfer from the property reserve, last
year’s income of the holding co. was 7.9 p.c.
on the combined book value of shareholdings
and advances, compared with 7.5, 9.S and
10.5 p.c. back to 1926, when a large slice of
additional trade was won. Of course, the
subsidiaries may not —indeed, almost cer-
tainly do not —distribute all their profits.
Regularly the board gives its assurance that
adequate provision has been made for all
contingencies. A year ago it went further
and said: “The business is in so solid and
healthy a condition that the future may be
regarded with confidence.”
During the last term the co. bought the
old-established grocery business of James
Service and Co., Melbourne, and, in order
to cope with the brisker trading in Wost-
ralia and Maoriland, extensions were made
to the Perth and Wellington (M.L.) pre-
mises. Also, the new warehouse in Brisbane
was completed, and is reported up to ex-
pectations. The holdings in subsidiaries
(£524,111, at cost) moved up £lO,OOO, and
advances (£341,796) were £16,852 heavier.
That is to say, at June 30 the co. had
£26,852 more at work than it had a year
earlier. To do this, the board went outside
for an extra £15,152 of deposits (£50,505),
and drew upon the substantial cash holding
(£68,429) for £4BBO.
Paid capital is in 280,000 A and 180,460
B prefs. and 294,000 ords. Both lots of
prefs. are entitled to a cumulative 7 p.c.,
have priority as to capital and rank equally
in these respects. The A shares, in which
the public is mainly interested, are also
entitled to an extra 1 p.c. when the ords.
have had 12 p.c. or more. Last year's net
profit was approximately twice the minimum
annual prof., requirements, and the visible
backing figures out at 375. 2d. per -share,
subject, of course, to any intangibles there
may be in the subsidiaries. The market
prices the A shares at 21s. 9d. f at which
figure the return is £0 Bs. 9d. per cent.
Bennett and Fisher, Ltd. (Adelaide).
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
1921.. 16,224 7 p.c. = 13,9]0 2314 21,558
1922.. 14,186 5 „ „ 11.955 2201 19,357
1923.. 23,399 7i „ „ 17,987 5412 13,945
1924.. 28,768 8 „ „ 19,200 9568 4,377
Reserves.
1925.. 36,737 10 ~ ~ 27,532 9205 4,828
Added to intangibles, £3830 .. 998
Prets.,
71 p.c. Ordinaries.
£ £
1926.. 39,777 9,309 8 p.c.=24,000 6,468 7,460
Added to intangibles, £3750 . . 3,710
1927.. 48,803 20,250 8 p.c.=24,000 4,547 8,203
1928. . 54,833 22,500 7„ „ 21,000 11,333 19,590
1929.. 47,496 22,500 61,, „ 19,500 5,496 25,092
That the drop in the year's declared net
earnings was not more pronounced is largely
because much of the co.’s business is done
in the south-east of its home State. That
is the part which suffered least from last
year’s drought. Nevertheless a lighter wool
clip and lower values ate into commission
earnings. According to the Associated
Brokers' returns the co. put 30,7517 bales
under the hammer as against 33,278 for the
previous season. It was this and a shrink-
age of £3 in the average per bale auctioned
in Adelaide (£lB 165.) and easier markets
for sheep and skins that were mainly re
sponsible for the contraction of £15,606 in
the year's gross profit (£153,650). As
against that the management was able to
make a cut of £8269 iu exes. (£106,154,i :
so after attending to the prefs. the balance
of the year’s net profit was 8.3 p.c. on aver-
age ord. capital compared with 10.7, 9.5. 10,
13.3 and 12 p.c. back to 1924. But the visible
reserves are meagre and the. outlook is not
bright, so half a point was chipped off the
ord. div., reducing it to 64 p.c.; and even
then 88.4 p.c. of the net earnings was dis-
tributed. The £5496 that remained lifted the
■lay-by to £25,092 in excess of goodwill
(£27.000), which is not treated as an asset
herein.
uiiortly after the present co. amalgamated
the businesses of Bennett and Fisher and
Cheadle, Crase and Co., in 1919, the manage-
ment set about developing the business, and
a run of good seasons aided the work
tremendously. The expansion lias been mosi
marked over the last half-dozen years.
During that time the board has gathered no
less than £300,000 of pref. and £60.172 of
ord. (*!ui>t‘ii besides going outside for an
extra £75,371.
Most of the money has been used to accom
modate clients. Nevertheless, to make ad-
vances, etc.. £254.349 in excess of paid capi-
tal, and to_ carry other assets with a bool;
value of £146.379 at June 30, the co. is
necessarily a heavy borrower. Here is
the position as balance-sheet figures dis-
close it:—
1922. 1928. 3929.
Paid capital .. .. £239,828 £600,000 £600,000
Liabilities . . .. 225,276 380,068 342,885
Freehold, plant-, stock, etc. 65,517 114,113 125,008
Advances 382,380 904,429 854,349
Cash and investments.. 18,373 21,371
During the year £37,183 was clipped oil
the amount coming to creditors; thus af
June 30 the outside money at risk in the
business was 10s. lid. (down Is. 4d.) for
every £1 owned by shareholders apart from
goodwill. To do this and spend £15,765 on
fixed assets the book value of advances was
reduced £50,080. Advances, by the way.
figure in the sheet less an unspecified amount
for bad and doubtful debts and contingen-
cies, and future results will partly depend
upon whether the allowances prove to be
adequate. Considering the age of the co. and
the recent rapid growth of the business it
is uncertain whether the board lias yet been
able to build up anything substantial in the
way of inner strength. Until capital gets
a lot more support, visible and otherwise,
divs. are likely to remain sensitive to fluc-
tuations in trading coiiditions.
Though recent rains have given relief
over that part of S. Aus. where the co. is
strongest, further falls are needed to ensure
a well-grown clip. The outer pastoral areas
and the West Darling continue either dry
or very dry. . The outlook for the current
season is for lighter fleeces, and at the open
ing sales last week prices were 30 p.c. to
33 p.c. easier than they were a year ago.' and
about 5 p.c. down on the closing rates fm
last season. In view of the altered condi-
tions the share market, which priced tin
ords. at ISs. 12 months ago, has shortened
its offer to 16s. 3d. At that figure the
return is 8 p.c. on a 64 p.c. div. basis. The
A and B prefs.—there are 150,000 of each
and they rank in the order stated —carry
a fixed cumulative 74 p.c. and have priority
as to capital. Last year's net profit was
over twice their cotabined annual require-
ments, and the net tangible cover amounted


WOOL PROFITS
available to the Public
A LIMITED ISSUE OF 50,000 FIRST ORDINARY SHARES.
(Payable 2/6 on application, 2/6 on allotment and balance in calls
not exceeding 2/6 at intervals of not less than one month).
An existing organisation now permits the General Public to share
in the profits of the marketing of Australia’s Wool.
3
IN 1928, the gross profits of six Australian wool-
broking firms amounted to more than £3,000,000
—and in that year prominent graziers formed the
Australian Wool Brokers and Produce Company Ltd*,
in order to enable associated graziers' to share in
those very large returns*
To-day , this organisation has long passed the
experimental stage and is a soundly based success*
More than two hundred well known graziers, owning
approximately a million head of sheep, are included
in the Company's list of Shareholders, and wool and
produce stores and showrooms are functioning in full*
Sufficient business to show a profit for the next twelve
months is assured from shareholders alone *
In order to finance its rapidly growing operations,
the Company now offers to the public the opportunity
of participating in its success.
The conditions of this investment apply mainly
to the marketing of the wool produce. Every year a
huge clip of Australian wool must be marketed, and
this operation may be said to be a continuous process
that is absolutely independent of fluctuations in wool
prices and of weather conditions. What wool is
grown MUST be sold.
Unaffected by labour troubles and practically
free from capital outlay, other than secured loans
against wool and produce pending sale, the Company
has no heavy overhead charges, and has already a
firm standing in a market where up to the present
but ten firms have actually controlled a turnover of
over £40,000,000 per annum ! Wool broking of the
past shows a 100 per cent . record of SAFE, SURE
PROFITS .
With the interests of graziers, broker and public inter
laced into one organisation, future profits are auto
matically assured .
Forms for Share Applications, and Prospectus,
will be forwarded on application to any regis-
tered Stock-broker on the Stock Exchange, or
direct to :
AUSTRALIAN WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE CO. Ltd.
McKinney House :: :: :: 10 O'Connell Street, Sydney
NOMINAL CAPITAL , £300,000
Divided into 300,000 Shares of £1 each
270,000 FIRST ORDINARY SHARES. These Shares rank
equally with the Second Ordinary Shares up to 10 per cent,
per annum Dividends on the paid-up Capital,
29,850 Second Ordinary Shares. (Of these Shares, approximately 19,000
have been applied for and allotted. The balance are under option
to the holders of the 150 Deferred Shares —these Shares were allotted
to the original founder of the Company —and are the only Shares
issued other than for cash).
150 Deferred Shares. These Shares do not participate in any Dividend
until the First and Second Ordinary Shares are paid 10 per cent, on
their paid-up Capital.
In the distribution of assets of the Company all shares rank equally.
50,000 First Ordinary Shares are now offered to the Public.
(Profits in excess of 10 per cent, after customary provision for contingencies,
etc., go to a Special Reserve for distribution in terms of Prospectus).
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
The Hon. G. R. W. McDonald, m.1.c., Sydney (Chairman)
Hugh F. Carter, Grazier, Barbigal Station, Dubbo
Thomas Crawford, Grazier, Mayfield, Orange
Thomas F. Cannon, late Grazier and Wool and Produce Merchant,
Summer Hill, Sydney
John A. Saleh, General Manager and Director, 10 O'Connell
Street, Sydney
BANKERS:
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Ltd., and
The Bank of New South Wales, Sydney
SOLICITORS :
John A. K. Shaw, Lewis & Co., Cathcart House,
11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney
AUDITORS :
Harry A. Beech, a.i.c.a., a.f.i.a., a.a.i.s., a.c.i s. (Eng),
Belmont Buildings, 15 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
ci-roh
k
i A
or <
AUSTRALIAN WOOL BROKERS
and PRODUCE CO. LTD.
Registered Offices: —McKinney House, 10 O’Connell Street, Sydney .
COUPON
Please forward Prospectus
and full particulars of
Australian Wool Brokers and
Produce Co. Ltd.
NAME -
ADDRESS -
s.n. is/n/’Lih


Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
Who Will Manage Your Estate?
At all times when an individual is appointed as Executor or Trustee
the uncertainty of human life is present. Who is better qualified to
administer your Estate than the
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED.
It cannot die, travel or disappear; has had over 40 years’ experience
in the management of all classes of Estates, and offers as security the
whole of its capital and assets- —over £1,000,000.
Our Explanatory Booklet will be
sent to you Post Free on Request.
THOS. BUCKLAND
JAMES MOIR
DIRECTORS:
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman)
0. E. FRIEND
Lt.-Col. T. F. RUTLEDGE
J. W. Barnes, Manager.
E. V. T. Whittle, Asst. Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
More Burdens
to Carry
Many concerns are falling by
the way, broken by high costs
and oppressive taxes.
Here's a big co. that will
not pay even its unsecured
creditors 5/- in the £. The
pref. shareholders will lose
every penny.
Are you a shareholder? Have
you an insurance policy? Do
companies owe you money ?
Don’t lose your capital. Keep
yourself informed.
The leading Australian
authority on all these matters
is
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
SEPT. NUMBER NOW ON SALE
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/6. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. CoLlison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
* * ••!: $
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
It cannot be denied that Pioneer Wood Pipe has
magnificently carried out all the claims made for it.
On many important installations it has proved its
outstanding efficiency. As a conduit for any form
of liquid conveyance, Pioneer Wood Pipe has shown,
under actual service conditions, that it can stand
up to the hardest usage with absolutely satisfactory
results. Cheap in cost, non-corrosive and unaffected
by extremes of climate. Write for illustrated data
book- —free on request. The Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge),
Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; and at Footscray, Victoria.
—Advt.
if s& *
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.—Norman Hill & Co.,
Ltd., Cathcart House, Sydney, Rep. largest American
and European Smelters. Buyers Dirty Tin Ores,
Copper, Lead, Gold, Silver, Antimony, Wolfram,
Scheelite, Tantalite, Molybdenite, and other ores and
concentrates. Properties examined and reported on.
—Advt.
# * * *
Patents.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.- — Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary.
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydx-aulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
insure: with the
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
11 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
AGENTS WANTED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
to £4 3s. 4d. and £3 3s. 4d. respectively. The
A shares can be had around par, and the
B’s at 19s. 3d. ; the return at the latter
figure is 7.8 p.c.
George Farmer, Ltd.
, Dividends. \
■ Net Prefs. Towards
Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
June, 33,938
1920.. 17,136 4800 10 p.c. = 4,5651
Adjustment pavment to vendors, j- 2,985 30,953
£4786 .. ' J
1921.. 17,228 4800 10 p.c. = 6,000 6,428 24,525
1922.. 21,144 4800 15 „ „ 9,000 7,344 17,181
1923.. 29,675 4800 25 ~,,15,000 9,875 7,306
1924.. 20,146 4800 20 ~,,12,000 3,346 3,960
Reserves.
1925.. 27,849 4800 20 ~,,12,000 11,049 7,089
Assets written up, £20,000 .. .. 27,089
1926.. 27,184 4800 20 p.c. =12,000 10,384 37,473
Reserves capitalised, £30,000 .. .. 7,473
1927.. 25,414 4800 18 p.c. =16,200 4,414 11,887
1928.. 21,334 4800 16 ~,,14,400 2,134 14,021
1929.. 17,943 4800 14 „ ~ 12,600 543 14,564
The drift which set in three years ago in the
profits of this Victorian ham- and bacon-
curing co. lias become more pronounced. It
is not that the co. has been unable to win
a market for its products; on the contrary,
turnover has stepped along briskly, and a
considerable increase in the volume of trade
is reported even in the generally depressing
12 months to June 30 last. But notwith-
standing this and improvements in the plant,
the year’s gross profit (£33,480) slipped
£6604, and that followed a drop of £4408
in the preceding term. A cut of £3212 in
exes. (£15,537) softened the fall, leaving the
net result £3391 short of the 1928 figure;
but the backslide over the last three years
amounts to £9241. It all looks uncommonly
like keener competition and cut prices. In
order to reduce overhead and strengthen.
their trade position, Foggitt Jones and Hut-
tons merged their businesses into United
Provisions, Ltd. (paid capital £1,391,725),
a couple of years ago.
Another couple of points was chipped off
the ord. div., reducing it to 14 p.c., and
then it took all but £543 of the year’s net
earnings. It was, however, equal to 21 p.c.
on ord. capital as it stood at the close of
accounts in 1926. The position then looked
sufficiently encouraging for the board to hand
out £30,000 of reserves in a one-for-two
bonus issue, though it left the visible prop
for capital rather thin. At June 30 each £1
of ord. capital had the assistance of only
3s. 2d. of accumulated profits as against
12s. 6d. three years earlier. That and recent
slender margins between earnings and distri-
butions mean that divs. are likely in future
to be much more sensitive to alterations
in trading conditions.
The co. has a splendid record. It took
over an old-established and prosperous busi-
ness, and not only have its products won
a market in Australia, but there is an export
trade as well. Since the public became in-
terested 10 years ago, the co., besides paying
yearly dividends on £60.000 of 8 p.c. pref.
capital, has given the ordinaries an average of
16.8 p.c. p.a. in cash, and that fatness has
been larded with the bonus issue already
referred to.
The £27,500 paid for goodwill was wiped
out of the accounts in 1926 —£7500 from
trading profits, and the balance (£20,000)
by writing up the book value of the assets.
For the most part surplus earnings have
been invested in the co.’s premises and
plant—last year further additions were made
to the cold stores. This and other things
are visible in the next comparison:—
1922. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital.. £120,000 £120,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 1,838 2,931 5,547 6,829
Premises . . 16,105 42,000 40,059 50,248
Plant, etc. .. 15,386 31,569 29,834 30,875
Stocks . . 23,928 26,550 33,122 40,767
Book debts .. 29,416 34,668 38,354 36,609
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 31,470 37,717 41,149 22,694
Last year £11,230 more was spent upon fixed
assets than was written off. To do it the
board drew upon liquids. Nevertheless
finances remained very comfortable; the
small amount of outside debt (£6829, up
£1282) was more than three times covered
by cash and Government securities alone.
Stocks are heavier than usual, and much
depends upon the figure at which they have
been taken into the sheet.
As to the future, all that can be said is
that the co.’s house appears to be in order.
Plant is claimed to be up-to-date and in good
condition. Results will, therefore, largely
depend upon competition. The investment
market, impressed by past earnings and the
co.’s strong position, expresses its confidence
in the management’s ability to win good
profits by paying 455. for the pound ords.;
they were at 495. a year ago. At the current
price the return is 6.2 p.c. on a 14 p.c. div,
basis. The visible backing amounts to no
more than 235. 2d. per share in net tangibles.
For the prefs., which carry a fixed cumula-
tive 8 p.c. and have priority as to capital,
the net tangible cover figures out at 545. lOd.;
and their annual requirements were covered
over 3i times by last year’s net profit. It
is not surprising that they are tightly held.
George A. Bond’s Reconstruction.
An unusual and interesting position has
developed in connection with the reconstruc-
tion of George A. Bond’s.
Since the liquidators were called in on
December 7, 1927, a business previously
carried on at a loss has been converted into
one capable of earning reasonable profits.
After allowing for depreciation, the parent
eo. netted £SO,S64 for the 12 months to
June 30 last. It then still owed creditors
the large sum of £722,796, and, leaving out
of account 250,000 ords. held in the Bond
Cotton Co. as having no value, there were
tangible assets with a book value of £987,696,
of which £461,790 was represented by pre-
mises and plant, and most of the balance
by stocks. So, on paper, there was still
£264,900 of the parent’s £450.000 of pref.
capital left.
Thus for pref. shareholders chief interest
now lies in the possibility of recovering some
of their old capital. With this object in
view, a committee of Victorian shareholders
has put forward a scheme of reconstruction
as an alternative to the one proposed by some
of the co.’s larger creditors (most of whom
are also shareholders) in Sydney. Details
of the latter proposal were published m
these columns last month.
In many particulars the two schemes are
similar. They are based on an amalgamation
of the assets of the parent co. and its cotton-
spinning associate, thereby cancelling about
£77,000 of the parent’s debt and wiping out
the 20-year guarantee of S p.c. on the cotton
co.’s £lOO,OOO of pref. capital. Also, each
plan provides for payment in cash of the
Cotton co.’s creditors and of the parent’s
small creditors and debts contracted since
liquidation. The bank and others not paid
off in cash, and holders of the Cotton co.’s
pref. capital, are to get 7 p.c. debentures
with a currency of five years.
It is mainly in matters relating to the capi-
tal account that the two schemes differ
materially. The proposals of the syndicate
of creditors wipe out all the old capital as
lost; but pref. shareholders in the old co.
are to be offered 150,000 £1 ords. in the new
co. at par, and the promoters have the right
to take up a further 150,000 ords. Arrange-
ments have been made to get 100,000 of the
new shares underwritten at a commission of
74 p.c.
Under the Victorian scheme old share-
holders are to be asked to put up £150,000
in new 8 p.c. cum. prefs., which are to be
given priority as to capital. After paying-
exes., setting aside £25,000 as a sinking fund
for the redemption of debentures, making-
provision for contingencies, paying the 8 p.c.
div. and sending £16,000 to reserves, any
balance of each year’s net profit is to be
split, up amongst the new prefs. as additional
dividend. The old pref. capital is to be
replaced by the issue of deferred ords. in
the reconstructed co. in the proportion of 55
p.c. of old holdings for the firsts; 44 p.c.,
seconds; 33 p.c., thirds. No divs. are to be
paid on the deferreds, which are to be re-
placed by ords. on a net tangible basis in a
second reconstruction about five years hence.
Not more than 200,000 ords. are to be so
issued. The pref.-participating rights are
then to be limited point for point with the
ords. after the latter have had 8 p.c.
The position as it now stands is that
creditors control the business. They have
rejected the Victorian scheme in its present
form. Still, should they force a realisation
of the assets all the capital and a lot of
their money would almost certainly be lost.
Meanwhile some of the Sydney shareholders
have formed a committee to co-operate with
the one in Melbourne. Before their scheme
becomes practicable they will need to have
£150,000 in sight. At last week-end they
had promises of about £40,000.
The liquidators, no doubt, will apply to
the .Court for direction.
Some modifications and simplifications
may be necessary, but the scheme of the
Vic. shareholders has much to recommend it.
After the financial smash of the early
’nineties, Australia, and especially Victoria,
saw far too many reconstructions in which
the rights of various interested parties were
sacrificed without hope or possibility of
restoration. Apart from the injustice that
was done to individuals, harm was done
to the companies themselves: in particular
one great pastoral-finance co. was thus pre-
sented with an army of enemies whose bitter
attacks did it much harm for many years.
It is impossible to tell in the present case
how much the Bond goodwill is worth: it
may prove to be worth infinitely more than
any liquidator would be justified in valuing
it at now. That scheme is best which will
at least give people who put money into the
venture a chance —even if a very remote
chance —of recovering some of it.
Not much real progress has been made
with the search for gold on the Kawarau
River (M.L.). About half a million of capi-
tal has been invested in the scheme, which
was to dam the river and lay bare supposed
rich alluvial deposits. A dam has been
built at a cost of £106,000, but those who
designed it apparently underestimated the
volume of water coming from such tribu-
taries as the Shotover, Arrow, Nevis and
others. Because of this it has rarely been
possible to reduce the level of water below
the dam to a workable point. Last month
a favorable opportunity occurred, but the
various subsidiary concerns that have ac-
quired mining rights from the parent co.
were not ready. There have been attempts
to amalgamate the claim-holding interests,
but conditions were unacceptable to the
parent co., and the efforts failed. Many
shareholders in the subsidiary cos. urge that
an engineer should be imported to pass
judgment on the scheme, and, perhaps, to
supervise mining operations, but lack of
unity has prevented anything being done.
The only recent development of importance
is on the financial side —a move to forfeit
the rights of shareholders in the parent co.
who are in arrears with their instalments.
* * * *
“Copabella” : The recently reported strike
of gold at liheola (Vic.) recalls that this
is among the oldest fields in the State and
one that, like Moliagul and Tarnagulla, has
“come back” again and again since the ’six-
ties. The three fields are in the same golden
belt and the district is studded with the
relics of settlements, where populations of
30,000 roared round 50 pubs in the golden
days. Rheola —Berlin until 1914, when it
lost its old identity in the wave of feeling
against everything German —is the chief dig-
gings on the old Mclntyre line of reefs.' in
the old workings a few men, white and
Chinese, have knocked out a living without
break since ’63.
* * * *
Westralia has now exported over £7,000,000
worth of minerals other than gold, but little
of it has been sent out of the State in the
past few years. Tin-, copper- and lead-min-
ing are ail in a bad way, and apart from
a little activity on the Pilbara asbestos and
tantalite fields, the search for other minerals
is almost at a standstill. Still there are
hopes that tin and other finds reported by
the Kimberley Exploitation Syndicate will
prove to be good things. But there is
much to be done before one can pronounce
them sure things.
* * * *
Westonia (W.A.) has been cheered by the
report that Rose Grant, who recently went
to London, is hopeful of raising further
capital for the Edna May Group and other
shows, and that Adelaide is likely to assist
shortly in bucking up the now almost para-
lysed market. Meanwhile, Princess Royal
Co. is hurrying to crush ore from its area.
The lode on this block is slim, but its
gold content is satisfactory.
* * * *
J. F. Thorn, Lake View’s new boss from
America, who arrived the other day, has
taken control. He has managed shows
in U.S.A., Mexico, Korea and other coun-
tries. Like his predecessor and present con-
sulting engineer of the co., H. E. Vail, he
is of the type which isn’t likely to get the
tired feeling in a hurry.
* * # *
Two prospectors recently made a new find,
which is claimed to be promising, in the
Bulong district (W.A.). So far it has been
opened up only a few feet in depth. Much
more will need to be done before any reliable
opinion can be formed.
* Hi * ❖
“Kati”: Malayan tin-dredging recoveries
are reported in pounds per c.y. One sees no
mention anywhere of tbe gross or total ton-
nage of tin oxide present in the ground
dredged. It would be enlightening to many
metallurgists, and probably to many dredge
managers too, to see statements showing the
total _ tin present in monthly yardages and
the tin recovered. The method of chemical
assay wouldn’t matter much provided the
same method was used for both feed and
tailings.
When ground is being bored and tested
only the comparatively coarse tin is taken
into account, the fine slime being lost in
working up the sample. So, when dredging
follows, yields approximate boring results if
the tin recovery appliances are as efficient
as the sample dish. The point is what propor-
tion of the finer tin, say finer than 100 mesh,
is recovered in the jigs when yardage is being
pushed, as it invariably is. Much, of course,
will depend upon the nature of the dirt and
the water supply. In a plunger jig recoveries
of the fine tin must be negligible. It will
not be surprising if the tailings of to-day
become the feed of to-morrow, as has been
the case the world over in regard to flotation
of lead and zinc.
The larger tin-dredging cos. could well
spend a little money to find out exactly
where they stand in the matter of tin
recoveries.
* * * *
Tanah Biji, a prospecting and develop-
ment co., with interests in Jelapang and
the two Serendahs, announces a loss of
£2471 for the year to March 31. thus reduc-
ing the credit at p. and ]. to £lB5l. Divs.,
etc., brought in £1250. Field work for the
year was confined mainly to testing the Ber-
juntai area, which A. B. Penman estimated
would go 115 million c.y. of half-pound
ground. Anglo-Oriental checkbored the area
at its own expense, and confirmed the esti-
mate. The London co. will go 50-50 with
Tanah Biji in a new eo. to be formed to
work the area.
* * * *
Siamese Tin Syndicate, a big London-
Malayan holding and development corpora-
tion, began hunting for payable propositions
in Australasia sonie months ago, and has now
been formally registered in Melbourne. The
co. has a sharp eye out for alluvial metal
prospects, and its representatives have lately
looked at shows in Maoriland and New
Guinea. Now a tin-dredging property in
Tasmania is being investigated. Nominal
capital is £200,000 in ss. shares, of which
600,000 are issued.
* * * *
The mid-September returns of the Mala-
yan dredges show a newcomer in the field in
Muang, the first subsidiary of Austral
Asiatic. The dredge, just opening out.
turned over 30,000 c.y. for an average of
I.oBlb. yer yard, a very satisfactory kick-off.
It is to he hoped the average will be main-
tained when the big yardages come along;
on boring estimates they should.


Take our
competitors’ word
for it!
You have four sources of
information regarding auto-
mobile values —
(1) the manufacturer,
(2) the dealer,
(3) the owner —and
(4) those who sell
competitive cars.
Dodge Brothers say that the
new Dodge Brothers Six is
the best car they have ever
presented; Dodge Brothers
dealers say that it is the best
car they have ever sold;
owners say that it is the
greatest value they have ever
purchased.
And, fair-minded competi-
tors will tell you that it is
the most formidable rival
they have ever known.
This consensus certainly
makes the new Dodge Bro-
thers Six too good a car for
you to overlook. Your local
dealer will tell you all the
facts regarding this remark-
able automobile. Then check
them up with a demonstration.
And remember that your
present car and a small
monthly payment will put a
new Dodge Brothers Six in
your hands.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
New South Wales Harden & Johnston Ltd., Sydney
Victoria . Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland . . . . Austral Motors Limited, Brisbane
South Australia
Western Australia .
New Zealand
Waymouth Motor Company Ltd., Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Company Ltd., Perth
Northern Automobiles Ltd., Auckland
Co-operative Motors Ltd., 131 Collins Street, Hobart •
Tasmania
New
Dodge Brothers Six
Chrysler Motors Product
•D 8505


rffm
9 1
' '• :; :v x :
krkS&wy>:
»$$ \
s »
■
1
1%
I!
Qh
&si>
.jMmm
When your ships comp, sailing home loaded with
M’Callum’s Perfection Whisky, it is high time to
give three good cheers.
So great has been the demajid and so decided the
preference of the Australian public—that for some
time stocks have been almost exhausted. But now
. . . .rejoice. . . .a big consignment has arrived by
the S.S. Demosthenes, and further shipments are
following by the Baradine, Ceramic, Balranald,
Tantalus. Thernistocles, Rhesus, Barrabool, and
others.
Distributors for the House of McCallum.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD.,
Macquarie Place, Sydney.
m^^Uum's


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
-
e>
(SS
GREYS
TWO
SIZE
SILK CUT VIRGINIA
DRAP
LONDON
1® for 9d. CIGARETTES %® for
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys’
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a GREYS.
Of course yov
know “Greys
Heavyweights"
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
SSISQ
The Sign oS
QUALITY
The Wunderlich Trademark is
a sign of quality it is your
guarantee of sterling value in
the following materials:—
Art Metal Ceilings, Terra Cotta
Roofing Tiles, Asbestos Cement
(Durabestos) Building Sheets.
Look for the trademark on these
products, when you purchase.
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
ABORIGINALITIES
ẁ
COMES OF SERVING TOO FRESH.
DINER: “Phoo! Take this coffee away, waiter—it’s like mud.”
WAITER: “Sorry, sir—it was only ground this morning, sir."
“Oh, nothing, nothing,” I replied hastily.
“That’s orl-right then, boss,” he said in
relieved tones; “I though I mighta put too
many ‘IV in ‘excelled.’ ” I took him on,
and he absolutely proved what he’d written
on his reference.
* * * *
“Werac”: “You take it from me,” old
Don informed us, “mountain ash is the best
wood to make a divinin’ rod outer. When
I was workin’ on a place in the lower
Diamantina the stud bull was a real rogue,
lie was always gettin’ under or through
fences inter places where he had no right
to get, and makin’ a flamin’ nuisance oi
himself. The boss got tired of this, so he
picked up l a fork of mountain ash that was
lyin’ near the woodheap and fastened it round
the bull’s neck. We never seen him for a
week or more, and then the boss got worried
about him an’ took me to help tind
him. We found him in the centre of one
of the paddocks kneelin’ down, stone dead
and the fork round his neck pressin hard
agen the ground. We tried to move the tork
but couldn’t, so we just burnt the bull where
he was. The fork stickin’ down like it
did worried the boss, but next day he. had a
brainwave, and a few weeks later he had
an artesian bore sunk at the same spot. It
struck water at 1100 feet, and to-day its the
best bore in the district.”
* * *
“K. McG.”: When Dan Springer went
courting old Rooney’s girl we began to look
forward to an oarly housewarming. But
one day Dan was seen drinking long and
heavily at the pub, and under the mellow
influence of Regan’s snake juice he told us
how his prospective father-in-law was moved
to read the Riot- Act. “Mind y’, I oughter ve
known better, me that was born and bred
among timber, but I s’pose when yer m
love it dims a bloke’s blinkers a bit. There
was a pile of split stuff dumped, near th
woodheap, and thinkin’ ter keep on th’ sweet
side of th’ ole pot I starts ter swing th
axe. I’ve chopped enough ter keep ’em g'our
for a month when I hears his nibs yellm
in me ear: ‘What th’ hell d’yer think yer
doin’?’ ‘Choppin’ yer some wood, I sez
perlitely. ‘Wood be damned!’ he yells.
‘Clear ter blazes outer this! Yer’vc gone
and rooned all them rails I nearly bust
meself splittin’ fer me noo stables !’ ”
* * * *
“Si Anu”: An extraordinary example of
an animal changing his habits was recorded
at Muar, in the Malay States, recently. A
Chinese carpenter'working on a river whart
was seized by a crocodile. Two of the man s
compatriots, contrary to the popular idea
that Chinamen will not attempt to rescue
a fellow being, plunged in and fought with
the brute, but unavailingly. A few days
later the body was recovered absolutely
unmarked by the saurian’s teeth, and this
confirmed the evidence of spectators that
it had seized its victim, not with its jaws,
but with its forelegs. Has any similar
case been recorded in Australia?
* * * *■
“S.E.A.”: An incident in the life of King
Billy was his encounter with Governor Car-
rington. King Billy was paying his cus-
tomary monthly visit to the Sydney Royal
Exchange, at the corner of Pitt and Bridge
streets, and on the steps approached a group
of shipping agents and deep-sea skippers
to whom he was well known. Just as one
, of the number was about to close the inter-
view by contributing a coin the Governor's
equipage hove in sight, so, instead, Billy
was promised that if by the exercise of his
kingly power he succeeded in stopping the
carriage he would be given ss. Billy, nothing
loath, took up a stance in the middle of
Bridge-street, with both arms held up, and
he was not only successful in bringing the
v.-r vehicle to a standstill but shook hands
and' conversed with his Ex. for several min-
utes When asked what the pow-wow was
about, liis royal nibs patronisingly informed
bis questioner that greetings had been ex-
changed between the white Queen’s represen-
tative and one of her most loyal and trusted
subjects. As a crowning touch he proudly
PUTTING THE SCHOOLMASTER RIGHT.
THE SCHOOLTEACHER: “Well, it’s very thrilling, no doubt, but I’U stick to the ground.
A thing must go up before it can come down, Mr. Tresize.
SAMMY TRESIZE: “I dawn’t knaw so much ’bout that, Maister Pulkmhorn. I had to
cut this tree down afore I could cut un up.
displayed a sovereign presented to him by
his friend the Earl. This did not, however,
deter him from claiming and collecting the
promised five bob.
* * * *■
“Questo” : It is hard to beat Binghi as a
mimic. Years ago, when the Palmer mines
were in full swing, a number of Diesel
engines were installed. The blacks had
never seen or heard these engines before, but
a few nights later they had a big corroboree
in which they imitated the sound and action
of these engines at commencing and knocking
off work. If you go up to the Palmer
(N.Q.) even now, although the mines have
long been closed, you will still see the abos.
do that corroboree.
* * * *
“Copabella”: Add another to the list of
queer strikes, again one with a shearer s
cook at the bottom of it. There had been
at the shed a bad run of babblers,
and all bands sighed with relict
when an ex-chef from ’Frisco, down
on his luck, sought the job. He was
a nigger, but he could cook. And
did, too, till a swaggie arrived in
the middle forenoon, when the cook
was up to his eyes in evening-meal
preparation; and demanded the cus-
tomary shed-hut feed. Poor Black
Joe offered a cold lunch with
brownie trimmings, but the stout-
hearted hummer insisted on a
special grill. Refused, he carried
his grievance to the shed-rep.,
declaring he had been denied the
immemorial right of a traveller call-
ing at a shed during shearing. The
union found against the cook, and
called on the boss for his head
on a charger. The boss backed
the cook. All hands downed tools.
The cook went —you can’t play
about when sheep are drawing into the pens
by thousands daily and grass-seeds are get-
ting had!
° * * * *
“Pick’’: When kangaroos are fleeing from
danger tlie fliers lead the way and the big
fellows bring up the rear. When they are
in search of food the old men are cus-
tomarily in the van. By noting the overlap
of their footprints, therefore, the expert
hunter discovers whether tlje long-tails are
to ho found on near-by pastures, or
have trekked afar. When does in the mob
are carrying big joeys, they never travel
long distances: Their spoor is indicated by
the deeper toe-marks they make in leaning
forward as they bound along. Imprints of
forepaws, by the way, reveal that the
hoppers have been travelling leisurely ana
feeding on the march, but long, regularly-
spaced jumps show that they are fleeing
from pursuit and will cover much country
before a halt. Where their tails have made
sweeps in the dust they have considered the
chase thrown off, and have pulled up to
take a rearward survey, and body impres-
sions in the • grass or bracken show that
they have abandoned their flight and rested.
Then they will be not much farther ahead.
In headlong flight they never face uphill.
If, then, their newly-made tracks lead to
higher ground, it may be expected that they
will be found not far over the top. Many
overlapping toe-prints show the place to
wait for them when at evening they emerge
from the forest fastnesses to fancied feeding
grounds, or drinking places.
* * * *
“Pomegranate”: Despite the many ad-
vantages science has brought to the Bush,
the outbacker in thg hot areas must still eat
his meat in more or less primitive ways.
Vividest memories of the Outback relate to
“eating through” beasts large and small;
the orgy of fresh flesh while the freshness
lasted, enjoyment of the mildly-salted best-
cuts, to the slow champing through the
leather-hard salt-saturated “sticking pieces.”
No variety, ever. If beef was the kill we
ate beef to the bitter (and chuck-dewlap)
end; the same with kangaroo, sheep or pig.
Pig was probably the most trying, because
speed was necessary and the fat was fat,
but beef seemed to linger longest. There
is something almost indestructible (at any
rate with the teeth) about the leggy limit of
old lean beef.
* * * =!:
“The Rumpus” : We had a cow of a boss
in our party, and one day he picked on
Nimbo Carter, the smallest and hardest-
working member of the gang. He raked poor
Nimbo fore and aft with a torrent of putrid
blasphemy until at last the little man threw
down his shovel. “That represents me
resernation,” he said gently, “an’ while I’m
handin’ it in I may as well say me few
words. You was a fair blankard before you
' got married, but we all thought that the
influence of a woman would turn you inter
a man. You muster got the wrong woman.
Now I hope you’ll have the wrong children
—2O of ’em, an’ all different nationalities!”
(Continued on page 25.)
TIM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ẃ
ẅ
FRED AARONS.


32,00Omiles
in less than
2o weeks
Owner tells of amazing economy
and endurance of De Soto Six
No practical test for a motor car is so gruelling
—so thorough—so searching—as continuous
running on a tourist passenger service.
De Soto has emerged triumphant from such
a test.
Long springs, hydraulic shock absorbers and soft,
deep upholstery iron out the ruts and bumps of
country roads.
As for performance-—read Mr. Perrow’s letter—
written with a full sense of responsibility, stating
the cold' facts of De Soto’s inbuilt quality.
Thus has De Soto won its way to leadership in
the field of low-priced six-cylinder cars.
j m
II
mmu
d
L-
-OSSOZ
J A
v%
% °/> "%£)
*^Z-
SJbt
% S&X
r e j°e ‘o J ' c
'<&?. <V
c
410
or*. •'£> '-if],
c <%?;
4^S % -
<3->e ( 4f s .
<5 uo
s *s?
V°4 (
#N2Xv V*
/«*%**?
>jWiV V>,f r
© c >
0o *
’«*,*« <?v„
•O' ’ S / A <? <? >
e?*
/,
“V; A.-V. °/..°0 ~?<?
'o,:>
;<v4
'/> §
a>
> i-
£vv*£.
>s&&'
•>• o■ © <? J.
°L>*?lon %s°
<5 0
*:V'«, S
/». *r
, W °0 A C Q 0;> %
$
&
2V
c 4
De Soto Six
CHRYSLER MOTORS PRODUCT
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales
Victoria
Queensland - •
• - Grenville Motors Ltd., Sydney
Automobiles Proprietary Ltd., Melbourne
- Stradbroke Motors Ltd., Brisbane
South Australia
Western Australia *
New Zealand -
- Dominion Motors Ltd., Adelaide
- - Wentworth Motors Ltd., Perth
New Zealand Motors Ltd., Wellington
Tasmania
Metro Motors Pty. Ltd., Hobart


in
NI9MT
dOJL 113 All/
133
mjsisuj
tits
SqmYe Glass
Bottk
mtkttw
Gfmn Label
1
NI9AHQ
siog
%
ŵ
Occupying as it does, one of the picked
positions and absolutely the healthiest
on the shores of Sydney Harbor, quiet
and secluded, and within a short
distance of the City.
The Mansions are exceptionally well
built, having fine airy rooms over-
looking Sydney’s beautiful harbor;
also Lounges, Smoking Looms, Tennis,
Croquet, Swimming Baths, Ball Room,
Guests’ Laundry, Electric Light.
The “Wallaringa” Mansions stand in
a fine position in Neutral Bay, and
the grounds and gardens are well kept.
During the day the views from ‘ Wal-
laringa” are glorious, and at night
the myriad lights, across the harbor
and on the numerous Ferry Boats,
make a fairy-like scene that world-
wide travellers say is unequalled any-
where.
To maintain the reputation of these
well-known Mansions, guests are well
attended to and have every conveni-
ence and comfort. Correspondence
and Telegrams punctually attended to.
Terms from £3/3/- per week.
Apply, The Manager.
’Phones: X 2239, X 2267.
Telegrams: “Wallaringa, Sydney.”
THE PLAGUES OF EGYPT.
BETTIE (just home from a holiday in Egypt): “And oh, Auntie, it was so interesting ;
the tombs and pyramids and things were all covered with hieroglyphs!”
AUNT LOUISA: “Oh dear! I hope you didn’t get any on you, child!”
“Nakhoda”: Melbourne Zoo reports the
prospective acquisition of a pair of orang-
outangs from Java, the Dutch Government’s
objections to having the wild life of that
island reduced having been, overcome. But
the orang is not a native of Java. It hails
from Borneo, where there are several varie-
ties, the queerest being the mias, with the
extraordinary enlargement of the cheeks,
which gives it a comical resemblance to a
particularly foolish mortal. The generic
name is merely a corruption of the Malay
orang kutan, or man of the woods, and
comes down from a hoary, antiquity
when even the rationalistic Greeks
believed in the existence of apes, which on
occasion mated with human beings. My
friend Norsa, of Labuan, Borneo, tells me
that these irregular unions still take place
and that the savage Murut women often
prefer their jungle husbands to members ot
their own species. Oil the other hand, a
native legend tells of an orang which re-
gretted its capture, and appeared one day
on the banks of a river pushing. the pro-
testing woman before it and making signs
to a passing boat to relieve it of the lady.
Despite *his evil reputation, the orang is a
mild beast under ordinary circumstances
and as reluctant as Mr. Bruce to display
ungentlemanly indignation.
* * * *
“H'inemoa” : About 35 years ago, when the
North Island Main Trunk Railway (MR)
was being surveyed, the natives in the King
Country were hostile. Fitz Gerald, a sur-
veyor, and his linesman were returning to
a settlement when they were captured by
some Maoris, who insisted on taking them
back to their pah. There they were kept
prisoners for several days. The two men
were well treated, and asked to dip their
hands into the stock pot along with every-
one else. Fitz Gerald enjoyed many a feed
of wild pigeon, pukaki and what tasted to
him like sucking-pig until he noticed that
the bones were similar to those of a child’s
arm and hand. Then he realised that he
had been eating pieces of a Maori baby
which had died the day of his arrival. The
discovery was so nauseating that he was
violently sick.
* * * *
“D.J.H'.”: No, it don’t do to set ducks’
heggs under ’ens, me boy, an’ I’ll tell y’
why. Once I ’ad a rattlin’ good ’en, an’
Maloney gives me a se.ttin’ of ’is mammoth
Muskervies, an’ she brings out ten fine young-
sters. It’s all O.K. for a while, till they
starts to wander up to the dam : then, hear-
in’ a horful shindy one day, I grabbed the
gun, thinkin’ an 'awk ’ad ’em, but found they
was just in for a swim, an’ the old ’en was
in an ’ell of a stew over it. After a
while she takes a tumble to it an’ sits on
the bank, havin’ a snooze while they has a
swim. Next time she goes broody I sticks
her down with white Leghorn eggs, and
being the good setter she is she brings ’em
all out. Blimey, as soon as the chicks could
walk she trots up to the dam, an’ as I
was goin’ up to the paddick to get old
Bluey to finish liorf the ploughin’, I sees ’er
with a chick in ’er mouth ! I stops for a
while, and by all that’s ’oly she pitches
in into the water. Then I sees all the others
floating round in the dam dead ! Thinkin’
they wus ducks ag’in she snoodles down for
a while, an' then kidcs up a hell of a
shine when they won't come out. No lad,
it don’t do ter mix ’em—it gets yer 'ens
all dithered.
MUCH BETTER INFORMED. „
“I didn’t know till just now, Tommy, that you had to get a whipping yesterday.
“Didn’t you, Granny? I knowed it at the time."
“Ittai the Gittite”: Te Marae Mahuta,
relict of King Mahuta of the Waikato
Maoris, was called to her ancestors the
other day, and was buried on the sacred
mountain of Taupiri, where many rangatiras
lie. Following a great tangi, stalwart Maori
subjects carried the coffin up the slopes ot
the mountain, whence, it
is believed, the spirit of
the old Queen will watch
over her people. Te
Marae’s husband, Mahuta,
was son of Tawhaio and
grandson of Potatau, first
Maori king. When Dick
Seddon sat on the pakeha
throne of M.L., the Maori
king, as the H'on. Mahuta
Tawhaio Potatau te
Whero Whero, accepted a
seat in the Cabinet,
greatly to the disgust of
some of his followers,
who held it beneath
kingly dignity «to mix
with such white trash as
politicians. Old Te
Marae made her last pub-
lic appearance at a cere-
monial opening of_ a
'oharepuni, or meeting-
i muse, for the Waikato. A
1 few minutes before the
ceremony she was work-
ing with the other wahines
in the community kitchen,
but she emerged from her
labors among the pots
and did the honors with
dignity. Te Marae left a
son who reigns as King
Rata. Her niece Princess
Te Puea is a power in the
land in the Waikato, and
from her model pah at
Ngaruawahia does much toward increasing
the prosperity and well-being of the native
* * *
“Opoutere”: Among the uses to which a
hat is put by bushmen I have not noticed
mention of the very common one—acting as
a' mate when cross-cutting alone. -The old
hand invariably puts his head covering on
the spare handle of the saw, thus ensuring
balance as well as a sense of comradeship.
That mate, at all events, never “rides on
the saw,” a frequent cause of heartfelt
cursing.
* * * *
“M.L.C.”: It is generally assumed that
animals in snowy regions wear a coat of
white fur or feathers as a protective measure.
Probably, however, the chief value of their
white color lies in the fact that it preserves
as much bodily heat as possible m cold
surroundings. The polar-bear has no
enemies, and the stoat, which dons a coat ot
ermine in winter at high altitudes, has tew—
when the snow begins to melt, moreover, it is
particularly conspicuous. Colors are due to
the presence of pigment, but whiteness is
produced by the complete reflection of the
rays of sunlight striking, for instance, on
crystalline particles like salt, or on gas
bubbles, which act like little mirrors, buch
bubbles are entangled in the foam of a water-
fall and in the structure of fur or feathers.
When human hair turns grey the loss ot
color shows that the new growth lacks pig-
ment, but when a man’s head turns suddenly
white owing to shock the change is caused
by the development of gas bubbles. The
pigment is still there, but is. masked by the
reflected light, a condition which may be only
temporary. Similarly, the stoat’s transforma-
tion to ermine is due to gas-filled vacuoles
present in the hairs, and when he moults in
the spring the reddish pigment reasserts
itself ' * * * =l=
“Murrungurry” : Squatter Jumbuck wanted
a small lot of sheep barbered—they had
been missed at the general shearing and
Marmaduke took the job. He had heard ot
combs and cutters, and had used sheep-shears
on grass lawns, and got them mixed up.
When lie was handed the tongs and a
sharpening stone and an oilcan, he asked
for the comb. “What do you want a comb
for?” queried Jumbuck. “Don’t you comb
fhe sheep before you cut their ivool?” Mar-
maduke inquired. After a momentary stare,
Mr. Jumbuck recovered the tools and put
them back in the store. “You might get
a job in town, at the gardener’s,” ho said,
“pickin’ caterpillars off tomato plants.”
# ❖ ❖ *
“Billy See” : The most remarkable abo.
ever brought to civilisation was Juhgun, the
albino who was exhibited in Melbourne and
other cities during the early ’nineties. . Pure
white, with blue eyes and golden hair, lie
nevertheless was of real abo. stock, his
parents being both dead black. Alex.
McPhce, well known in the Wcstralian nor -
west, found him about 200 miles inland from
Le Grange Bay, just south of Broome. Hav-
ing heard rumors of this strange white man
McPhee determined to investigate, and after
a stiff journey located the albino sitting at
a camp-fire with the rest of the nigs. Brought
to civilisation, Jungun took kindly to white
men’s clothes, and with a well-cut suit on
looked like a prince. In time, however, he
gradually turned black, and thus lost his
attraction as an exhibit.
RIVER TEA-TREE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Far out, far out where the looming hills
lean straightway
To the blue of the-sky, and the Gap lies
grey between
Where the low boughs interlace at the red
road’s gateway _
And the supplejack twines m the tangled
undergreen, , ,
The winds sigh low to the wannon waters
singing, .
And the last late heath is a-fiower, fairy-
belled,
With the flick of a wren and the flash of
a lory winging
Through the toss of the tea-tree blossoms
at Dunkeld.
Clean is the air by the cool, green mountain
passes,
Cool is the wind by the rocky scarps
austere,
Where the dusty dogwoods stoop by the green
morasses
And the grass-tree lifts its -velvet-headed
spear.
Ere ever the north wind swings in its burn-
ing marches
And the bloom of the gold September is
dispelled,
Ah, well to be under the forest’s ferny arches
In the time of the tea-tree blossom at
Dunkeld.
Where the storms roll up from the sea-line,
dark and tragic,
And the thunder heads are flushed with
sunset’s stain,
I wish I could drink of the south wind’s
crystal magic
When the far bush world is fragrant after
rain.
Stars o’er the mountain swung in the velvet
spaces—
Ah, for the glamor the night and morning
held!
Ah, for the grace of the old familiar places
Ere the froth of the tea-tree is falling at
Dunkeld!
When the winding way is a foam of misty
blossom,
And the frogs’ loud chorus rings from the
river’s turn;
Where the wide grey bush rolls down to the
brown cliff’s bosom,
High to the eagle’s eerie, low to the fern;
Oh, fair is the light of the gold September
morning,
And I wish I might walk by the ridges
as of eld,
In the time o’ the year when the wattle gold
is turning,
And the river tea-tree blossoms at
Dunkeld!
VICTOBIA,
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


Our Service Department
*
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants
Scotsman, 51 yearn’ bush experience in Australia,
able to ride, etc., wants job, Par North or Islands.
Hard work no objection.—22lo.
Young lady, Sydney, would like to correspond with
readers interested in art, drama, journalism and
yachting. —2240.
Station manager (38), Q’land, married, returned
soldier, 20 years’ experience sheep and cattle,
conversant all branches of industry, economical and
hard worker, requires position.—222s.
Qualified mechanic, N.S.W., experience of windmills,
cars, tractors, shearing machinery and stationary
engines, wants employment on large station, Q’land
or N.T.—2236.
Cook on station Charleville (Q.) , district is
leaving in October. Wonderful people, good home
and surroundings. Anyone want the j0b?—2203.
Housekeeper (N.S.W.), refined, farmer’s daughter,
and her son (21), require position together on sheep
station, experienced, refs., distance no object.—22o7.
Refined middle-aged Tas. business woman seeks
change climate. Accept position trust gentleman’s
home. Refs.- —2215.
Shearing machinery expert, now doing run western
sheds, N.S.W., wants late shed. Refs. —2249.
Two competent, experienced dairy-women, N.S.W.,
want dairying on shares. Milking machines up to
50 cows. —2211.
Married man, 25 years’ experience, seeks position
as manager or working manager on wheat or mixed
farm, now or at Christmas. Refs. —2248.
Bachelor (26), arriving Sydney few months,
capital £3OO, seeks profitable partnership (residential
flats fancied). —2273.
Geologist, referenced, New Guinea experience, will
make available exclusive services and substantial
capital towards cost of prospecting expedition into
wild New Guinea. Details to persons who can
prove bona fides. —2272.
Englishman (31), Q’land, single, ex-service man,
four years’ English and three years’ Aust. farming
experience, wants position. Go anywhere.—227l.
Woman (35), Sydney, with boy 13, wants position
in hotel as laundress or needle-woman. Refs, and
dressmaking certificates. —2275.
Man (28), N.S.W., married, wants position as
storekeeper or handy man on farm. Willing to learn
anything ; go anywhere.—2279.
Capable woman, with well-behaved boy 11, wants
position country hotel, as cook, laundress or cook-
laundress. Refs. —2277.
Kind motherly person, Sydney, to board and send
to school well-behaved boy of 11. Would pay £1
per week.—2276.
Young Australian will exchange magazines, views
and correspondence for curios and views with
resident in Pacific Islands. —2280.
Young man, Q’land, would like to correspond
with Bulletin readers. —2270.
Words of old humorous songs “That’s Where You
Make the Mistake” and “Abyssinian Gold.”- —2202.
To buy Max Beerbohm’s “The Happy Hypocrite,”
(1897), and Conan Doyle’s “Songs of Action” (1898).
—2278.
Information Sought.
(1) Is a newsagency a sound investment
at the present time? (2) What capital would
I require for a business returning a clear
profit of £lO per week? (3) Is it a worry-
ing business for a beginner? (4) How can 1
protect myself against misrepresentation as
to the profits of a business? (5) By pur-
chasing privately from the principal, would
I save any expense?! —2l7B.
(1) Depends upon the qualifications of the
purchaser, assuming that he proposes to run
the concern. (2) £lBOO to £2OOO. (3) For
the first three months. (4) By getting a pro-
fessional accountant to investigate it. (5)
Might save broker’s commission.
(1) I am working a sluicing plant, using
Tin. piping. Cdn I get more pressure by
putting on piping of a larger bore at the
intake? (2) llow is water pressure calcu-
lated?—2l6s.
(1) Increasing the size of the pipe cannot
increase the pressure. (2) Pressure is
calculated on the square inch, and is the
same, with a given head, irrespective of the
size of pipe. The volume (discharge in
gallons -per minute) varies with size of pipe.
Head (elevation) determines pressure her
square inch.
I have come into possession of a block
of shops which are leased to tenants j one
of the tenants is a large landholder and
has to pay land tax, and he has written to me
asking for the unimproved value of the land
ivhich he leases from me for the purpose
of including same in his land-tax return.
Can I claim the unimproved value of the
land leased by him as a deduction from my
own land-tax return, or do I have to pay
tax on it in spite of the fact that the land
is leased? —1998.
You are entitled to a deduction from the
tax in respect of the leased land only if the
lease was made, or agreed to be made, prior
to Nov. 17, 1910.
(1) What State taxes are levied in con-
nection with horse-racing in N.S.W., and
under what conditions? (2) How much did
the Government get from such taxes during
the last financial year?- —2114.
(1) Racing clubs are taxed on licenses
and fees received from bookmakers. The
taxes payable by bookmakers are regulated
according to the particular courses and en-
closures where operations are carried on.
There is also a stamp duty on all betting
tickets issued and on all credit bets made.
Clubs racing for profit pay a tax of 9 p.c.
on totalisator investments, and other clubs
5* p.c. Taxes ranging from 2d. to 3s.
are imposed on admission tickets. (2) For
the year ending June 30, 1928, the amounts
raised were: Racing clubs, £73,136; book-
makers, £41,391; betting tickets, £124,00J ;
totalisator tax, £201,008; racecourse admis-
sion tax, £136,175.
Is there any paint or spray that will hold
on galvanised iron under the continuous
usage of hot and cold water? —2134.
Nothing that would be absolutely satis-
factory. The most satisfactory results would
be obtained by giving a coating of aluminium
paint, and finishing with one or two coats of
bath enamel, allowing ample time for drying
between each application.
(1) Is a woollen mattress injurious to the
health? (2) How to treat wool for use in a
mattress? —1961.
(1) No. (2) Thoroughly clean it. All
badly-soiled parts must be cut away, and the
rest well washed in liottisli water containing
a solution of soap and some cloudy ammonia.
Repeated washings are necessary, and a final
rinsing in warm water. Spread out to dry on
clean sacks on the ground, or old sheets may
be used. Hot, windless weather is ideal.
Fresh wool attracts blowflies, and a watch
should be kept for these while drying, also
for a few weeks after making up into mat-
tress form. When dry and ready for putting
into the mattress ticking the wool should be
gently teased and fluffed up.
(1) What besides walnut crystals and
burnt umber in oil or water can be used to
stain pine veneer walls? I need a dark stain
(flat) without red in it; most of-the stains
I see are too red. (2} What is used to
get a greyish hue with brown? —2086.
(1) Use a flat oil stain, the shade of which
may be varied by wiping off excess stain
before the surface has absorbed the full
amount. A mahogany stain should meet
requirements. (2) It is usually obtained
by a small quantity of grey spirit dye being
mixed with the French polish when finishing
over the brown stain. You need to under-
stand French polishing to obtain the effect.
Could bare patches on a motor-car’s
enamel be touched up by an amateur uyith-
out spoiling the appearance of the car? —
2144.
No. The job is done with a nitro-cellulose
lacquer, and the various operations demand
special knowledge and appliances.
Is there any employment for book-keepers
(male) in India and 8. Africa, and tchat
salary is paid? —l6s3.
In India, absolutely none ; all clerical work
there is the prerogative of the Babu. The
chance of getting a job in South Africa
is almost as remote. There are any amount
of local men for billets of the sort. Wages
would be about 25 p.c. higher than in Aus-
tralia, and the cost of living quite 30 p.c.
higher in the big cities.
(1) What capital ivould be required to
start a business like that of C. J. Coles,
of Melbourne? (2) Where could stock be
(3) Would such a business pay
in a town like Ringwood (Vic.) ? (4) llow
should I go about starting a music-shop?
(5) Is there any profit in it? —2216.
(1) It would depend on the size of your
proposed business and a dozen other factors.
(2) From wholesale warehousemen in Mel-
bourne. (3) Probably not. A crowded area
is required for a shop selling only goods
under a fixed price. (4) Get in touch with
Allan’s or one of the other big Melbourne
music firms. (5) Certainly, if the locality
and management are good.
What are the qualifications of a town or
shire clerk in N.S.W. ?- —1962.
He must hold a certificate of qualification
as clerk under the N.S.W. Local Government
Act 1919, obtainable by examination. Par-
ticulars regarding the examination and the
issue of certificates are obtainable from the
Clerk to the Local Government Examination
Committees, Local Government Department,
Sydney.
(1) What thickness of wall would be
necessary for an underground tank 15ft.
square, 10 ft. deep, in fairly solid ground—
stiff clay and schist? (2) Would a square
tank stand as well as a round one? (3)
What is the best mixture for the job? (4)
What amount of cement would be required?
—2058.
(1) Six inches. (2) A round tank would
be the stronger, but a square tank would
be the easier to build. Either is satisfactory.
(3) One cement, 2 sand and 4 of broken
stone (maximum size lin.). (4) For a
square tank 4 tons. For a round tank Si
tons.
What prospects are there of obtaining an
engagement as an actor with a film producing
co. in Australia, making either talkies or
silent films? —2030.
Practically none. At present the Mc-
Donough sisters are the only people engaged
on the production of a silent picture, and
this is practically completed. There is no
organisation equipped to produce dramatic
talkies.
I propose kerbing my flower beds with con-
crete Gin. high. (1) What depth should the
kerb be in the ground? (2) What propor-
tions of material shall I use? (3) Is it
better to mould in separate sections and
place in position, or to set the forms in the
position in which the kerb will stand? —2o62.
(1) Three inches. (2) One cement, 2
sand, 4 broken stone or gravel (approx,
size fin.). (3) Mould in position. Make
a space every 20ft.. using a piece of sheet
iron. Afterwards fill the space so made with
tar or pitch.
(1) Are there any flying schools operating
in N. S. Wales other than the Sydney Aero
Club? (2) What do they charge to train
a pilot? (3) What are my chances of obtain-
ing a position as a pilot? —l97B.
(1) Yes. the Goulburn Aero Club. (2)
The cost of attaining the standard of the
Class “A” (private ) pilot’s license would
be normally £4O to £5O. (3) Unless a pilot
has had considerable flying experience he
would almost certainly have difficulty in
obtaining a position as a pilot. It would
first be necessary for him to acquire a Class
“B” (Commercial) License Certificate and
to gain this he would have to undergo
advanced training as well as complete a mini-
mum of 80 hours’ solo flying. Best get m
touch with one of the pilots operating at the
Mascot Aerodrome.
What is the origin of the term “plus fours ”
as applied to the costume worn by some
golfers ? —2120.
“Plus four” is a handicap only applied to
first-class players. Only the very swankiest
wore the weird garment referred to when
it first came in, and the title was trans-
ferred from the handicap to the garment.
Is it possible to adapt a broadcast receiver
for the reception of overseas short-wave sta-
tions, such as KOO, 58W and PCJ?~ 2256.
A special short-wave adaptor unit lias been
designed for such use. It consists of a detec-
tor unit which plugs into the detector-socket
of the broadcast receiver by means of a
three-way cable. The radio-frequency and
detector stages of the receiver are not in
use when the unit is connected, only the
audio amplifier being in operation. These
units are very efficient, and their cost is low
as compared to that of a complete short-
wave receiver. No extra batteries are
required. Several Sydney firms market
these units.
Does a power-valve placed in the last stage
of a receiver increase the volume delivered by
the speaker, and, if not, what are its uses?
—2239.
It does not increase volume, but it enables
extra volume to be handled without causing
distortion. A receiver employing ordinary
valves in the last stage may produce harsh,
distorted signals. If this valve is replaced
by a power valve, together with the plate
and bias voltages advocated by the makers, a
great improvement in quality of both music
and speech will result. When replacing an
ordinary valve by a power valve the speaker
should be connected to the set through a
suitable output transformer or filter cir-
cuit. If this is not done, the heavy plate
current will saturate the speaker magnet and
even the speaker.
Can you give me a list of books suitable
for an adult who desires to teach himself to
read classic iQreek? —2125.
Start on Clyde Pharr’s “Homeric Greek,
or Book for Beginners,” and go on to the
Greek New Testament, to which there is a
“crib” in the shape of the English version.
There are handy special vocabularies and
small dictionaries for use in that connection.
A useful book also is “Deigma,” by Profs.
Walters and Conway, of which a new edition
(4s. 6d.—John Murray) has just been issued.
What is the difference in acres (if any)
between one square mile and one mile square?
—2043.
There’s no difference in area. But a square
mile may be a section of any shape or dimen-
sions containing 640 acres, whereas a mile
square is a square' each side of which
measures one mile.
(1) What firm makes the “Bobolink” aero-
plane? (2) What firm is making the airship
jRIOI for the British Government? —-1957.
(1) No information is available. (2) It
is being built* by the Government at the
Royal Airship Works, Cardington (Eng.).
(1) Can S. Africa be classed among the
great wheat-producing countries? (2) What
are its chief wheat-growing centres and
average yield per acre? —2228.
(1) No. The Union grows only about
one-third of the quantity required for local
consumption. (2) The South-western and
Queenstown districts of Cape Province and
Basutoland. The yield averages 8i bushels
to the acre.
lloiv to concrete the inside of a 1000-
gallon galvanised-iron tank?, —1933.
Punch |in. holes in the tank at intervals
of about 12in. Both the inside and the out-
side of the tank should then be lined with a
small mesh wire net, tied by means of laces
passing through the holes. A cement mortar,
consisting of one part of cement to two parts
of sand, may then be applied over the wire
fabric. The wire serves a double purpose in
holding the cement mortar in position and
reinforcing it after it is set. After about
24 hours, the tank should be kept wet, either
by filling it or by frequent sprinkling.
What was the number of breadwinners
and their dependants in N.B.W. and Victoria
at the censuses of 1891, 1901 and 1911? —
2044.
N." S. Wales: (1891) 474,751 bread-
winners and 649,203 dependants; (1901)
567,048 and 787,798; (1911) 730,292 and
916,442. Vic.: (1891) 500,573 and 639,267;
(1901) 538,864 and 662,206; (1911)
594,056 and 721,495.
How to stick a patch on an oilcoat? —
2105,
Can’t be done. The only method of satis-
factorily repairing an oilskin garment is to
sew on to the coat a patch of material that
has previously been proofed, and then to
fill up the -needle holes by another applica-
tion of the oilskin dressing. Best thing is to
send it to the makers.
Formula for a hair dye, not containing
lead? —2209.
A solution of permanganate of potash
crystals in warm water is used by some, also
a solution of walnut crystals in hot water,
the latter procurable from color shops. A
little should be tried first, as some scalps are
exceedingly sensitive and a recipe which may
suit some rrffiy cause severe irritation in
others.
(1) About 25 years ago a recreation-
ground was granted in my district, and
five trustees were appointed. Since then
one has _ died, one has left the district, two
have retired and live in town, and the remain-
ing one takes no interest in the ground. The
residents wish to appoint fresh trustees.
What course _ should we pursue to ensure
the cancellation of the present trustees’
rights, and' what N.B.W. Government de-
partment controls these matters? (2) A
road-contractor has permission from the
trustee to stable his horses on the ground,
‘and the tennis courts have been damaged.
Can the club claim damages or force the
contractor to repair the courts? —2042.
(1) The power that made the grant and
appointed the trustees —you do not indicate
it —is the only one that can act in the
matter, unless special provision to the con-
trary was made under the grant. Acquaint
yourselves with the terms of the grant. The
Local Government Department, Bligh-street,
Sydney, might assist you if applied to. (2)
If the conditions under which permission was
granted have not been complied with, the
trustee can take action. It rests with him,
not with the club.
Brief Answers.
L.G.F.: (1) Already answered. (2) The
rate will depend on (a) the nature of the industry
and (ft) the benefits conferred. (3) No; you would
have some trouble in persuading the P.M.G. to
allow it, in any case. (4) Question too vague....
G.W. (Grafton) : It is a gamble with very small
chances of success... .W.G.M.: The registrar of joint
stock companies in the State in which they are
registered. The search fee is usually Is
M.A.W.: The Airedale breed is an excellent com-
panion and a good watchdog. The Alsatian has
also a good name for such purposes. The secretary
of the Kennel Club of N.S.W. could supply names of
prominent breeders in N.S.W. and approximate prices.
. ...P.McQ.: (1) Depends on the statutory laws of
the Straits Settlements. Communicate with Attorney-
General, Singapore. (2) A marriage does not cancel
promises previously made. .. .H.M.: Ordinarily the
holder of a p.n. who fails to present it on due date,
funds being then available at the bank to meet it,
can proceed no further on the note, non-payment
being due to his own default. But a debt that
may have been covered by the note is not extinguished
and such debt can be sued for G.H.: (1) Prospects
good. Question is too vague. (2) There are at
present two butchers in Mount Isa. (3) Holding
ground in the vicinity is already taken up. (4)
Can’t advise. .. .Reader, and others: Requests that
the area of land should be calculated cannot be
complied with accurately unless the angles are
indicated... . F.R.L.: Write Miss F. Smith, New
Home Supplies, Daking House, Rawson-plaee,
Sydney.... M.J.: Gaumont Co., Ltd., Lime Grove,
Shepherd’s Bush, W. 12; Stoll Picture Produc-
tions, Ltd., Temple-road, Cricklewood, N.W.2 ; Gains-
borough Pictures, Ltd., Poole-street, Islington, N.l —
all London. . . .A.T.S.: (1) The Nobel Prize in Litera-
ture was bestowed upon Kipling in 1907, Yeats
in 1923 and Shaw in 1925. (2) The Nobel prizes
are understood to be worth about £6500 each. They
number five: (a) physics, (b) chemistry, (c) medicine
or physiology, (d) literature, and (e) the preservation
of peace... .D.E.M.K.: It is probable that the platen
has become very hard, causing an uneven impression
of the type, but it is difficult to say without exami-
nation. Benzine is better than kerosene to clean
a typewriter... .E.S.: Obtainable from Anthony
Hordern and Sons, Sydney. Price 635., freight extra.
... .F.T.: The council is within its powers and may
demolish any building with respect to which a
closing order has been made under the Public
Health Act, unless within three months after the
service of the order, or within such further time as
the council may allow, the building has to its
satisfaction been rendered fit for human habitation
or occupation. .. .A.M.: Introduction of an arsenical
solution will probably kill the stump and possibly
part of the root system. Whether or to what extent
suckering would be prevented would depend on
seasonal and environmental conditions. The stumps
should, however, be more readily burnt out
T. 0.0.: No; the ords. in the old Bond Co. fade
out of the picture and the prefs. get merely the
right to buy some shares in the new co. at par.
See B. 28/8/’29, “Wild Cat” page S.F.: Yon
can’t afford the risk. .. . J.T.L.8.: The four
accepted football codes in Australia are (in order
of seniority), Australian, Association (Soccer), Rugby
Union and Rugby League. There have been many
changes since the original rules were compiled
L.S.: Shadwick and Turnbull Pty., Ltd., South Mel-
bourne ; F. Long an,d Co., Footsorajy (Vic.);
Guthridge, Ltd., Camperdown (N.S.W.), or C. G.
Trevitt and Co., Alexandria (N.S.W.), may be
interested in the process. .. .T.M.W.: Henry W. Pea-
body and Co., 40 Clarence-street, Sydney.... T.H.T.:
Try O’Brien Publicity Co., 247 George-street;
Weston Co., Grosvenor-street; or Goldberg Advertising
Agency, 15 Hamilton-street —all Sydney... .W.A.8.:
Write to the Resident Commissioner, Tulagi, British
Solomon Islands.... A.L.P.: Permanganate of potash
has no corrosive effect on metals. .. .W.W.: Write
Sheep and Wool Department, East Sydney Technical
College, Darlinghurst, and N.S.W. Woolclasser”
Association. . . .W.T.: British subjects in good health
and possessing £3O are allowed to land in Canada.
As crews of Australian ships are signed on for the
round voyage it is not possible to work a passage.
. ...T.8.F.: (1) Phosphatic rock is admitted free of
duty. (2) Cornsacks when complying with standard
are admissible free. (3) Twine is classifiable as
follows: Binder twine, British, 6s. cwt. ; general,
7s. cwt. ; other twine, British, 30 per cent. ; general,
40 per cent. (4) Information can be obtained from
Customs, Adelaide A.L.W.: Marsupial excrement.
. ...M.C.M.: It would not be practicable to use a
horse-worked gearing to work an electric-light plant,
as the speed at which the generator of an electric-
light plant is driven must be absolutely uniform....
E.R.C.: Australian Cement Manufacturers’ Assoc.,
14 Spring-street, Sydney, will give you estimate of
cost if you state size of house you propose to build.
.... R.W.: Neither Federal nor N.S.W. State income-
tax is payable on prizes won in Adams’s consul-
tations E.N.: (1) John Lee. (2) John Vane was
associated with John Gilbert and Ben Hall. He
surrendered to the police after the attack on
Keightley’s house near Rockley (N.5.W.)... .H.A.C.:
Write to the journal in which you read about
the home-made refrigerator for particulars....
8.5.: There is no fixed value for special cancella-
tions, which have interest for very few collectors.
Similar covers with the penguin device are generally
sold at ss. to 10s. each, but buyers are hard to
find J.C.C.R.: (1) Obtain “The Bulletin Reciter”
or “The Bulletin Book of Humorous Recitations”
from N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Sydney. (2) Write to
the Observer, Gladstone (Q.)... .M.M.: In 192<
motor accidents caused 748 deaths in Australia....
W. 8.5.: Cut off the large roots and then dig out the
stump in the usual way. The use of saltpetre is
not advisable W.T.T.: Not unless you are the
inventor or have some legal right to patent the
invention.... A.L.: (1) Chance of securing job as
printer’s machinist in the Pacific Islands mentioned
is practically hopeless. (2) Neither necessary nor
advantageous H.1.M.: (1) The balance of legal
opinion appears to be that a military reserve leased
by the Commonwealth Government to a golf club
is exempt from liability to be rated under the Local
Government Act 1919 (N.S.W.). (2) The Common-
wealth Government holds that it has power to lease
such lands and is supported by its logal advisers.
Only a High Court decision could remove all
question of doubt. .. .R.H.N.: Very dubious. Low
grade, and with tin at present prices the outlook is
dull. Still, as you stand liable for only £l' on
your contribs. it might be worth while hanging on.
Dredge is understood to have been ordered
V.M.8.: A poor investment; but carry on and you
ought to be able to recover something... .8.N.. •
(1) Don’t trust them. (2) A recovery. (3) Doubt-
ful; both good. (4) Watch for a chance to ge
out. (5) Risky. (6) A good gamble (Many
others mailed.)


M
s
jr
•a,
£
1
Ifff//f/////*//**///: I !!!!!!!•
>Sr-
k*
t «S
3$
m
s>
liMa;
if
mmm
him
i\l«»
W” CWENTWORTn.
PHAMPION RESERVE
PORT
OWN BOTTLING
MAS HARDY £ SONS LTGE
AIDE,MELBOURNE tSYONEY
'SOUTH AUSTRALIAN WINE.
NET I PINT 6 FLUID OZS
iaiavS'^saLassM®
£
i
C2z>ZS i'oCIV2 tic PIOTIGG
HARDY’S WINES OF TINTARA


S>enfffo\A
| Wo 0 \ \
| to 1
m Carson
The
Words
on the
Bale
are brimful of wisdom. The action they indicate
produces satisfaction for growers. Hence the wide
popularity of Winchcombe, Carson as selling brokers,
Close supervision of each client’s wool by the
management is an outstanding force in the firm’s
work. Write
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
LTD.
Winchconjbe House, Bridge Street,
Sydney, or 99-101 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
PROFIT AND LOSS.
Wool production can be increased and sheep losses reduced
by the constant use of VITA-LICK.
Mr. A. H. Daley, Orange Grove, Bingara, writes:—
“In my opinion, VITA-LICK is a sound business propo-
sition, as sheep grow at least one pound more wool (when
VITA-LICK is used constantly) at a cost of approximately
6d. to Bd. per head per annum when kept constantly
in the paddocks.”
VITA-LICK, LIMITED,
STOCK LICK SPECIALISTS,
107 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
It is a wise idea to select
requirements for Spring and
Summer now, while stocks are
replete with all the novelties of
the season, offering the widest
scope of choice.
PEAPES’ better QUALITY,
better VALUE and better SEIt-
VICE are as usual markedly
evident.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
MORE PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
In order to encourage farmers to pass
on to others the fruits of their observa-
tion and experience, “The Bulletin” will
give three prizes for the most helpful
contributions during the six months to
Dec. 31 next.
Points will be awarded for every con-
tribution submitted, if thought worthy and
whether printed or not, and two prizes—
the first of £25 and the second of £lo—
be given to the winners of most
points.
A special prize of £5 will be given for
:he best individual contribution.
Only contributions that are of practical
value to men on the land are asked for;
literary merit is not taken into so
long as the meaning is expressed plainly.
The prizes are in addition to the ordi-
nary payments made for all “Bulletin”
contributions.
*
THE SPIKED ROLLER.
“William S.” : No implement is more valu-
able to the farmer than the spiked roller.
A plain roller merely consolidates the ground,
hut the spiked one acts both as a consoli-
dator and cultivator. As an implement for
working wheat land it stands alone. If the
land is rough, as is often the case, by run-
ning the roller before the drill is used it
gives a perfect seed-bed. When used on a
crop of wheat 6in. high its action is more
beneficial than harrowing.
When a green crop is attacked by cater-
pillars, the spilled roller stands alone as an
implement of destruction, killing fully
90 p.c. of the pests. The roller is also ideal
as a lucerne reviver.
In making the roller the logs should be
of gum or ironbark not less than 15in.
through and, if a single log is used, 10ft. or
12ft. long. A roller of two sections is the
best, each log 6ft. long, mounted on one or
two spindles. The standards should be of
substantial sized iron. The spikes may be
either straight fin. rod iron or “figure 4 ”
the shoulder of the latter fitting well up to
the wood. Shafts are preferable to a pole
for haulage. Eight horses work such a
roller easily, especially if used four abreast.
On no account should the seat of the
driver be placed in front of the roller, as a
fall in front of it means certain death.
FALLOWING MALLEE LANDS.
“Mallee Voice”: The best implement for
fallowing the light Mallee land of northern
Victoria is the 12-furrow skim plough. It
does six feet at a stroke, and turns the soil
over, putting the top surface underneath,
which is essential for a good fallow. Six
horses will work it, but it is advisable to
have seven. Fallow done with a skim plough
can be afterwards worked with a spring-
toothed implement of light draught, which is
sufficient to keep weeds in check and the
fallow in good heart. Light Mallee fallow
should only be worked sufficiently to keep
the weeds under control, with the assistance
of sheep to eat out waste land and mixed
spaces.
Working Mallee land too frequently tends
to create drift, which has been very trouble-
some for the last few years.
On no account should the fallow bo worked
when dry. It tends to increase “take-all” and
other fungoid diseases.
A lot of fallowing has been done in recent
years by the cultivator with a 9ft. stroke
pulled by 10 horses. But it cannot be termed
a good fallow because it does not turn the
soil—just roots it up and pushes it aside,
merely transplanting strong weeds. The
fallow can be much improved by giving it a
cross-stroke with this cultivator, but that
adds to the expense, as a 10-horse team is
required to go over the fallow a second time,
and a further light working will still be
required.
TRACTOR V. HORSES.
“Yeoman” : “Tumbe Munda” (B. 28/8/’29)
is a little mixed in his accounting methods
when he objects to pro-tractor men crediting
wheat they can grow where they once grew
horse feed. Why not? That extra wheat
must be entered on the credit side of the
ledger just as tractor fuel is entered on the
debit side. He is wrong, too, in asserting
that “if the farmer charges himself (say;
£4 per ton for chaff he must also credit him-
self with £4.” In that event horse feed
would cost the farmer nothing, but the
cost of horse feed is the productive value
of the area cut for hay, plus the cost of
chaff-cutting. The item of paddocking
charged the horse-farmer when his team is
grazing is justifiable inasmuch as the
tractor-farmer can turn that grass to profit
by carrying sheep or other stock where the
horses previously grazed.
STUDY THOSE FREIGHT RATES.
“Jack Point”: I handle a few hundred
railway consignment notes in a week, and
am firmly-of opinion that one-third of the
consignees do not receive full value for their
money. They order their goods without
thinking a thing about the freight, whereas
a little forethought would save them many
pounds in the course of a year. Naturally
the railways enforce maximum charges for
small consignments, and I have frequently
seen a man paying as much for one coil
of wire as he could have got two for, or
buying a ton of cement in two or three con-
signments and being charged at a higher rate
than if it had gone in the one truck. Railway
freight rates are a weird jumble, but if you
acquire a knowledge of them you will be a
good many pounds in pocket at the end .of
the year. A copy of the rates applicable
to your State can be obtained from the
Railway Department or the Government
Printer, and much useful information is to
be had from the big pastoral supply com-
panies for the asking. When contemplating
improvements in which freight is going to
be an item, it is as well to inquire just
what benefits you may obtain in regard to
freight reductions by getting all the goods
together.
ROCK PHOSPHATE IN STOCK LICKS.
“Ovis”: “Tarboy” (B. 24/8/’29) seems
to have missed the point about the objec-
tion to rock phosphate a? a stock-lick
ingredient. It is not banned because of the
fear of injury through over-absorption of
phosphates, but because of the injurious
effects produced upon the bones and teeth by
the fluorine contained in the rock phosphate.
The Meteor Downs and other Q’land cases
were not properly controlled feeding tests
and proved nothing.
E. B. Forbes, Director of the Institute of
Animal Nutrition, Pennsylvania State Col-
lege, in his report on extensive feeding tests,
says: “Rock phosphate produced character-
istically weak bones, apparently through
bringing about a decrease in the proportion
of carbonate phosphate in their composi-
tion.”
O. _E. Reed and C. F. Huffman, of th%
Michigan Agricultural College Experiment
Station, who carried out experiments to
determine the effect of rock phosphate as a
mineral supplement to a ration deficient in
phosphorus, state that the feeding of rock
phosphate to cattle is inadvisable. In
lengthy feeding experiments serious injury
resulted from softening of the teeth. When
rock phosphate was fed to cows during lac-
tation the milk flow was lowered and the
appetite .impaired.
Prof. H. H. Mitchell, Professor of Animal
Nutrition, University of Illinois, says:
“Rock sulphate as a source of calcium in
animal feeding has given variable results,
generally unfavorable. The generally un-
favorable results of rock phosphate feeding are
probably traceable to the fluorine almost
universally present in calcium phosphate
deposits.”
Doctors 11. Schmidt, B. 11. Edgington and
. Kernkamp, in their investigations
into nutritional problems, report that calcium
metabolism is interfered with by excessive
consumption of fluorine, x'heir experiments
showed that no ill effects on growth or well-
being were observed until 0.1 p.c. or more
of fluorine was fed with a basal ration.
A very marked toxic effect was observed
when 0.15 p.c. to 0.25 p.c. was fed, inter-
fering with growth and reproduction. The
effect on reproduction began at a level of
0.25 p.c. sodium fluorid.
If fed over a long period, or if sheep
are consuming fair quantities of a rock-phos-
phate lick, trouble may be expected, and
lias in several instances come under the
notice of the Avriter. Nauru phosphate con-
tains 2.62 p.c. fluorine, Ocean Island phos-
phate 2.97 p.c., and Florida* phosphate, of
which quantities are imported into Aus-
tralia, from 3.92 p.c. to 4.01 p.c.
WHY MILK VARIES IN COLOR.
“Hatter”: The rich yellow color of milk
is due to a substance called carotin, so
named because it is the coloring matter of
the carrot. Green feeds in general are rich
in carotin, which is generally found in plants
along with the green chlorophyll which
masks its color. Other roots besides carrots
also contain an appreciable quantity. On
the other hand, dry hay, old silage and all
concentrates arc poor in this chemical, and
consequently cream and butter are usually
light-colored in winter.
The yellow fat of Jerseys and Guernseys,
which makes them unpopular with the
butcher, is due to carotin, and these breeds
are able to transfer the coloring matter from
their fat to the cream and thus produce a
highly-colored product during the summer,
and also for a longer time than other cows
after they are put on winter feed. They
are unable, however, to manufacture carotin,
and after a prolonged period their butter
also will become colorless.
KIKUYU GRASS.
“Coolibali” : Farmers of the Eastern coastal
districts laying down new pastures or cleaning-
up and improving old ones should consider
the advantages of Kikuyu. A disadvantage
is that it has never been known to seed
in Australia, which makes the propagation
more laborious than the mere shaking of
seed. However, when a plant becomes
established, it soon sends out rapidly-growing
jointed runners, both under and over ground,
and these provide the material for future
plantings.
In rough, stony scrub paddocks there are
frequently found patches on which, owing
to the stones, it is very often hard to estab-
lish paspalum, clovers, etc., and these areas
quickly revert to scrub or become lantana
and wild raspberry patches. Brush and burn
this rubbish and, wherever there is a soil-
filled crevice, poke in a cutting of Kikuyu
with pick or bar, planting in warm, moist
weather. If given a chance this grass will
soon completely carpet the rocky patches to
the exclusion of all other growths.
Where ground may be ploughed the plan;
ing is a,simple matter. Lay the bundles
of runners over a log and chop them into
handy lengths of a few joints (a cane-knife
is a handy tool for the job) and, as you
plough, drop these in, say, every third
furrow, a couple of feet apart in the rows.
The complete burial thus given will not delay
propagation and ensures a good roothold.
Kikuyu will fight its way through most
things, but, like all plants of the same habits
of growth, it makes most rapid progress in
a sandy soil. It stands dry weather better
and is less susceptible to frosts than most of
our fodder grasses and will make fair growth
even in the winter.
PACKING APPLES.
“Yeoman”; Why has the oiled wrap not
been adopted in Australia in apple packing?
An experiment carried out several years ago
for the Devon (Eng.) County Agricultural
Comnuttee m order to test the effectiveness
of three methods of storage was illuminat-
ing. Three standard bushel cases were
packed with an even grade of Bramley’s
seedlings. The fruit were unblemished and
120 apples went to each case. In one case
each apple was wrapped in the oiled wrap
in another in ordinary white tissue. In the
third no wrapping at all was used.
After five months the cases were weighed,
disclosing a loss of lib. by evaporation from
the wrapped fruit against 111 b. from the
case of unwrapped. They were then opened
and examined as to condition, and the
results were classified as follows:
, Perfect. Blemished. Rotten.
Oiled wrap .. 114 3 3
Tissue wrap . . 86 24 10
Unwrapped .. 47 43 30
Apples packed in the oiled wrap actually
improved in quality and looked as fresh as
when picked. The cost of the oiled wrap
vtas -d. per case, and no other expense was
incurred.
f< CULTURE OF CITRUS TREES.
“X.5A.”: Young citrus trees may now be
planted out, but it is advisable to give
some protection against an unexpected late
frost or cold winds. The young trees should
be puddled before planting out, the roots
being well immersed in thin mud. This
covers them with a nne layer of moist earth
and keeps wind out whilst planting.
Plant the trees to the same depth as in
the nursery, and cut away all damaged roots.
Ilie taproot should also be removed, this
being of importance as it has been found that
this root will develop unduly and that the
head of the tree will correspondingly suffer.
Root trouble, being of serious consequence
with citrus trees, can be best avoided by care-
ful planting. No young tree should be put
out unless well furnished with even roots and
plenty of fibre. Go to a good man for
supplies.
Spread the roots' carefully and fill in and
around them with fine soil. Cover to about
three inches and then gently but firmly stamp
this down, being careful to keep the tree
erect. Now apply a good ration of water
and complete the filling when that has soaked
well in.
The ground around each young tree should
be w T ell worked for a distance of at least
three feet, and subsequent clippings should
extend to a similar distance. If there is
the slightest sign of couch grass this should
be dealt with long before the young roots
get moving.
No manure should be applied until the
youngster is-, visibly moving, and then only
fertiliser which will build it up should be
applied. Too much credit has been given to
the application of a dressing at the bottom
of tin- hole when actually the roots have
been well above it. On the other hand,
innumerable trees have been severely set
back and even killed out through this prac-
tice.
Shape the young tree as it grows, leaving
four or five even leaders. Pinch back where
necessary, keeping the tree low (remembering
that although an orange-tree will come down,
a mandarin will not), and never allow any
growth in the middles.
Do not let a citrus tree bear until at
least four years old, and from then on until
maturity do not let the crop hang. Never
mind the good prices. These will come in
later years from healthy, well-grown trees
from which not too much has been expected
whilst growing.
Keep the trees in balance by not allowing
a second or false crop to set. If this is
neglected the trees will develop the bad
habit of setting crops out of season. Good
orchardists have to be very hard up to
allow any but the main crops to mature on
their trees. Finally, don't expect citrus
trees to grow in poor or worked-out land.
FIGHTING FRUIT FLIES.
“X.5A.”: In combating such pests as
the .Q’land and Mediterranean fruit flies the
first precaution to be adopted is cultural
cleanliness. Infected fruit must not be
lost amongst weeds when it falls from
the tree. Every orcliardist who leaves but
one fruit, thus permitting the maggots to
get under cover, is a flybreeder.
The next step is to see that your neighbors
do the same. A vigilance committee is a
useful local institution. But the picking up and
burning or boiling of infected fruit merely
checks the hatching. Coincident with this,
every step should be taken to destroy the fly
itself. This can be done by means of lures,
traps and poison. Kerosene in shallow
vessels should be distributed throughout the
orchard, the centre of the tree being a
favorable spot. A good spraying solution
is made of fruit juice or molasses and lib.
arsenate of lead to 20gal. of water. Other
mixtures may be suggested by the local
inspector.
BEE-KEEPING FALLACIES.
“Specker”: For years the leading bee-
keeper§ preached that if there was a short-
age of pollen it could be supplemented by
rye meal, maize or even flour. It seemed
somewhat strange, since pollen contains a
proportion of protein while these meals are
mainly starcln Then one day some sceptic
fed rye meal to a hive of bees enclosed
in a greenhouse with no access to pollen.
They took the meal and fed their brood on
it. The brood all died and the theory was
exploded.
A change is also developing in the attitude
towards foulbrood. Until recently it was con-
sidered unnecessary to do more than estab-
lish the bees in a new hive with starvation
for a couple of days to cause them to con-
sume any infected honey, and to thoroughly
disinfect the old hive and combs. The present
view is that it is better to burn hive, bees
and all. The old treatment was sound in
theory, but the danger of spreading the dis-
ease to neighboring hives by “drifting” and
robbing is so great that the more drastic
method is now recommended.
SISAL HEMP.
“W.P.D.”: Several years ago a half-
hearted attempt was made to grow sisal
hemp on a commercial scale in North
Queensland, but labor and transport diffi-
culties proved too great, and it faded out.
Since then other trials with the plant have
been made in a small way, and have shown
that success is possible. A plot of one
acre at St. Helena, a small island in More-
ton Bay, yielded 2 tons lewt. 221 b., part
of which was manufactured into rope and
binder-twine, and the balance sold in
Melbourne at £.37 10s. a ton. Later a plan-
tation at Childers yielded over a ton to
the acre the first year-, and the profits from
the sales of the fibre amounted to £l2 a
ton. White labor only was employed.
Sisal hemp is extremely hardy and re-
quires no particular knowledge on the part
of the planter. Dry weather does it no
harm, and only increases the proportion of
fibre by decreasing the fleshy matter. It
has no particular harvesting or planting
time; this can be attended to when the
farmer is not busy with other work. C. T.
White, Queensland Government Botanist,
says the best variety to plant is Agave
(Continued on page 32.)


ar
1
m
The Handiest Outfit
yet designed
For mending harness,
bending or cutting
pipe, sharpening
tools, grinding
ploughshares, boring
wood or metal,
blacksmith work,
and for an endless
variety of other jobs
this Handy Worker
is unbeatable.
Farmers will find it a real boon, and every other user of tools will
recognise its exceptional utility and value.
The Stewart Handy Worker includes tools that are used every day.
There is a strong, powerful Vyce, with jaws opening to lhe
jaws are 4in. in width, and will hold any wood or metal article firmly.
There is a Pipe Vyce which will take pipe up to I *in. in diameter,
and will grip it securely.
The Anvil is strongly and substantially made, and wi 1 stana a gre^ fi
d„l Third work! A high-grade steel Cutting Hard.e or Wedge »
provided for cutting wire or steel.
There is a Drill Press which can be operated at two speeds;
Drills and a Rest to hold the job to the drill are included. Ihe
Carborundum Grinding Wheel will keep the edges of your tools in good
condition. It has three speeds —direct, 4 to 1 and 16 to •
The materials used in the Stewart Handy Worker are of high quality,
so that the outfit may be depended upon to last a lifetime
gears are cut from the solid steel bar, so are the two cu mg
The outfit has no equal in design, quality and workmanship, and stands
alone for its utility. The mechanism that drives the Grinding Wheel
and the Drills can also be used to drive such extra attachments as a
Buffing Wheel, Scratch Brush, small Circular Saw, etc.
Weight of outfit, boxed for delivery, about 1001 b.
Price £5(15/- each
Many other useful articles are shown in our Free 1929 Catalogue. Get a copy.
MCPlier
Proprietary Limited
“DEPENDABLE GOODS SINCE I 860.”
51-65 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
582-592 Collins Street, Melbourne. 116-130 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide.
For Any Travel
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
In co-operation with
WAGONS-UTS CO.
ŵ
PASSAGES
By all lines, all routes, all classes,
at bedrock fares. No booking fees.
TO EUROPE 1930
As berthing plans for all steamers
are open, BOOK NOW to ensure
comfort on the voyage.
ESCORTED EUROPEAN TOURS
We offer choice of a dozen different
tours leaving Australia in February,
March and April, at fares to suit all
purses. Apply for special pro-
gramme.
WINTER TOURS
To Queensland, Java, Siam, Japan,
Hawaii, California, Indo-China,
Ceylon, etc.
TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
A boon to travellers, safe, conveni-
ent, good everywhere. Apply for
particulars.
SAILING LISTS
Programmes and all information
post free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE: 269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY: Martin Place.
ADELAIDE: 49 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE: Adelaide Street.
PERTH: Forrest Place, opp. G.P.O.
AUCKLAND: Queen Street.
WELLINGTON: Corner Hunter and
Featherston Streets.
ẁ
Latest type “Valet’
Auto Strop Safety
Razor in neat and
serviceable case.
2 genuine “Valet”
Blades in plated
Blade Sheath.
“Valet” Strop and
Tube of Auto Strop
Shaving Cream.
*****
•in
§
Of all dealers for a limited period
only
VALET”
AufayStrop
Safety
RaaKW-
Shoving
CVeam
PHIPSON & COMPANY Ltd., TBl CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY


, '' r
*
■
a" \’v -
flfc-
<3 3fe£ \
; .:•
- ■ >
□
o
CO
rp n
yi
Brisbane: Moretc:
Melbourne: Sout
GENE
BRISBANE
Ci \h


io Car Advantages
iw Priced Field
. I
'
: -■. ■ 7 ■ 7 ' ■
)«' ! J * , | P
, ' - 7- ' '
i
m #
>
■
I SIV
THE Great Pontiac was designed for people who are
progressive and who appreciate the finer things in
life. It was planned to make it possible for them to step
up the quality of their cars without stepping out of the
low-priced field.
In appearance, for example, it offers the smart style, the
graceful proportions and the perfection of detail which in
the past only big cars have provided. Its fenders are
flaring and sweeping. Its lines are long and low. Inside
its staunchly constructed body more big car characteristics
meet the eye.
Mechanically, it provides such big car features as a big L-head engine,
the Harmonic Balancer, which counteracts crankshaft vibration, the
G-M-R cylinder head, which minimises thumping and spark knock,
accurately balanced rotating parts and noiseless, protected, internal four'
wheel brakes. It is fast, powerful, quick to accelerate . . . smooth,
silent, and easy to control.
It is obvious from this description that the Great Pontiac is in inno-
vation in the low-priced field. It had to be to give the people for
whom it was created what they were searching for in a motor car.
Metropolitan Distributors.
°tors Pty., Ltd., Adelaide Street. Sydney: John McGrath, Ltd., 154 Castlereagh Street.
Motors Pty., Ltd., 131-37 Lonsdale Street. Adelaide: Millingen’s, Ltd., 95 Waymouth Street.
Skipper Bailey Motor Co., Ltd. (Milligan Street Division), Milligan Street.
PRICES from £285
Convenient Payments may be arranged on the liberal G.M.A.C. Terms Plan.
PRICES GIVEN SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE
"OR ONE YEAR : : : : BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER
L MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
PONTIAC
§r


m
*ik
*V;
'•
L
■
Supple, durable and
light
The riding boot of ideal type smart-
fitting and comfortable. An inner
lining of soft leather gives it, in effect,
a double upper. Stout elastic side
insets Jceep it flexible and snug to
the foot.
This Abbey Boot arches to avoid
strain over the instep. There's not
one raised seam inside. And the sole
is made of the toughest leather that
can be obtained.
Order by Post
Narrow, medium and wide fittings are
available in all sizes. Specify width
as well as length, and ask, also, for
a supply of Abbey preservative
polish (6d. per tin).
TAN WILLOW CALF. . 47/6
BLACK BOX CALF.. 45/-
Enlarged catalogue of men’s and women’s
footwear post free.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: “Abbey Boots,” Sydney.
FPLI42
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH Y/ORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins ... 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
DOST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydnev.
■Jj.
Shampoo Yourself
With Cuticura Soap
Anoint the scalp, especially
spots of dandruff and itching,
if any, with Cuticura Oint-
ment. Then shampoo with a
suds of Cuticura Soap and
warm water. Rinse thorough-
ly. A healthy scalp usually
means good hair.
Soap Is., Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
X
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
• Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
SUTTONS OF READING, ENGLAND
Seedsmen to H.M. the King.
• Vegetable and Flower Seeds.
The newest and most improved strains saved from pedigree stocks as well as the best oi
the standard varieties.
We stock seeds in the original packages or will obtain for customers any of Sutton’s well-
known varieties of flower or garden seeds, or special grass seeds for lawns, golf courses, etc.
Murdoch Bros. Pty., Ltd., Hobart, Tasmania.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH,
DO YOU WANT TO ENTER A PROFESSION?
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and enter
a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to send for
our Prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal to the
demand. NOW is the time to begin.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
#1
“KANGAROO” SHEEP GATE
REGISTERED No. 17494/28.
il Vilni
lI.K.
lnw-
Designed for sheep-pens or
draughting yards to facilitate ———
the handling of flocks. The gate has one bottom hinge to the back
guard, on which it works, and is simply thrown across into the
long catch bar, which holds it securely.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM THE MANUFACTURERS:—
D.tfW. CHANDLER LTD.
w
rigida, var. Sisaliana, the fibre of which is
worth from £5O to £6O per ton. The late
A. J. Boyd advocated planting 680 suckers
to the acre. Poor, rocky, dry, gravelly 'soils,
rich in lime,, worn-out sugar plantations and
arrowroot fields are suitable for this crop.
PITTING ROOT CROPS.
“Hortus”: If possible, a spot should be
chosen in a fairly elevated position,, “high and
dry,” but that isn’t essential so long as the
drains cut on either side of the pits are well
sloped. Long, narrow pits give better results
than short, wide ones. When the pit has
been dug put a fairly thick layer of sand
at the bottom, and then stack the turnips,
etc., on the sand in the form of a pyramid.
Don’t make the heap too high-—a long, low
one is best. Cut off the tops of turnips,
wurzels, carrots and parsnips before pitting.
Cover the whole with straw and top off
with earth.
Pits of this sort arc made on our farm
in the potato paddock, and save a tremendous
lot of trouble and labor. Potatoes are sorted,
of course, before pitting.
Carrots and parsnips should be pitted in
sand, for they have been found to keep far
better and fresher. It is the pitting of a
cheap crop like mangel-wurzels that helps
to solve the problem of winter feed, and there
is no more succulent and nourishing mix-
ture than chaff and chopped-up turnip.
What’s more, the dairy cattle love it.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) I have lost two mines owing to dis-
ease, not foulbrood. How can I fumigate
Hoffman hives? (2) Should last year’s comb
be taken out and replaced by new sheets
of wax? (3) When should the supers be put
on the hives? —1910.
(1) Can’t say, without knowing what
your bees died from, whether it’s a case for
fumigation or not. (2) No ; providing the old
comb has not been knocked about, but you
shouldn’t keep a brood comb more than four
years. (3) Bees should be storing in the tenth
comb before any supering is commenced, so
that when all combs are covered with bees
no time should be lost before giving them a
super. In some colonies where supering has
not been done quite so early as it should
have been it will be noticed that the cells
containing stores around the brood have
been built beyond the frame to enable them
to hold more honey. This is a sure sign
that the bees are in need of extra storing
room.
(1) What is popcorn? (2) llow is it
sown? (3) Can it be sown with a Massey
Harris single-row maize drill, and' if so, what
plate and caps are necessary to get correct
rate of seeding per acre ?— 1959.
(1) It’s a special type of flint maize used
in confectionery. The two principal varieties
are Black Beauty and White Rice, the former
being generally preferred by the trade.
(2) Planting may be done in the spring, as
soon as the danger from frosts has passed
and the ground is warm enough to give a
good germination. The seed is sown in rows
3ft. apart, with seeds 6in. to Sin. apart in the
row. (3) Special plates would be required.
The Massey Harris Co. will make the plates
if a sample of the seed to be used is for-
warded.
Is it advisable to give land that has just
been manured with superphosphate or sul-
phate of ammonia a dressing of gypsum?
If not, how long should I wait before apply-
ing the dressing? —l96B.
It is preferable to apply gypsum three
weeks before the application of the other
fertilisers. If applied afterwards, allow three
weeks to elapse.
(1) Are the counties of Cumberland and
Camden (N.S.W.) unsuitable for rabbit
farming (Chinchillas and Angoras)? (2)
Under what conditions are persons permitted
to engage in fur farming in those counties?
(3) What prospects does the industry offer
to a small breeder? —2124.
(1) Chinchilla rabbits have not yet been
tried in Australia. Angoras have done well in
the County of Cumberland. (2) The N.S.W.
Govt, permits rabbit farming, but the
Federal Govt, has not yet lifted the embargo
on the importation of Angora rabbits. A
license is necessary, and these are issued only
for the counties of Cumberland and Camden.
Write to the Secretary, Stock and Brands
Branch, Dept, of Agriculture, Sydney, for
further particulars. (3) Much depends upon
the farmer’s aptitude and experience, but
the industry has been found very profitable
in other countries, and may become so here if
the Federal Govt, removes its embargo.
How should paspalum be cultivated?
My soil ( Pittsworth, Darling Downs, Q.)
is a loamy black, subject to flooding. —l 976.
Choose depressions or waterways as sites
in the paddock and skim plough or lightly
work up the surface to bring it to a fine
tilth and to get rid of the natural grasses.
Sow seed in the spring or early summer in
moist, cloudy weather at the rate of 101 b. per
acre. Lightly harrow and cross-harrow.
The condition of the soil at the time of
sowing will be the best guide to determine
whether it would be advisable to roll the
surface and so “lift” the moisture to ensure a
good germination. Use seed of known ger-
minating capacity.
(1) What is the district nearest to Bris-
bane suitable for cotton-growing? (2) What
is the average return in weight of cotton per
acre? (3) Where can I get practical books
on cotton-growing? (4) Could a married
man with five children (four old enough
to do picking) make a success of cotton-
growing ? —lB2B.
(1) The Lockyer and Brisbane valleys,
adjacent to Ipswich. (2) Varies with sea-
sonal and soil conditions. The average
ginned per acre for the whole of the State
fluctuates between 400 and 500 lb. per acre.
The better farmers can usually rely upon
600 to 1000 lb. of seed cotton per acre.
(3) From the Department of Agriculture and
Stock, Brisbane. (4) Depends on capital
available and knowledge of farming. In a
small crop of from 8 to 10 acres a grower
with that much assistance in picking could
expect to make a gross return of about
£l5O. The practice is becoming more preva-
lent, however, of growing as much cotton
as a farmer can cultivate and hiring pickers
on a piece-rate basis to harvest it. Under
such conditions one man with proper equip-
ment can cultivate 40 to 80 acres of cotton,
the return from which, after paying for the
cost of picking, would probably be about
*£s to £7 an acre in a suitable district with
the land properly cultivated.
What is the type of country at Tallimba,
Barmedman district (N.S.W;) ? Is it good
grazing country? Average rainfall, and is it
subject to droughts? What is the carrying
capacity? The price is £5 per acre with
600 sheep. The area is 1300 acres, and the
property is four miles from rail. Is the price
reasonable for the district? —1667.
It is typical wheat soil, varying from red,
deep, light loams to clay loams with a good
retentive subsoil. Some rough, hilly country
occurs throughout the district. Some of
the ridges are decidedly poor, but others
are considered excellent for grazing. Carry-
ing capacity is from two to three acres per
sheep. On improved country and with pro-
vision made for dry times the carrying
capacity can be increased. The average
rainfall is 17in. to 18in., but there are
occasional dry seasons. The price appears
to be reasonable, but this will depend on the
title, type of country, improvements, etc.
Good wheat properties are valued at £7 to
£9 per acre.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Bill R.”: The roots of pines or other
ornamental trees that have been started in
flower-pots should be threaded out when
transplanted and firmly bedded down fan-
wise in loosened soil. They will then strike
readily, .radiate naturally and give the tree
a chance to thrive.
“Hayband”: Strip the cow! While the
first drawn pint of milk may have as low
a fat content as 1.2 or 1.5, the last pint
drawn may contain as much as 6 to 7 per
cent. Strippings are richest of all, and on
analysis have shown as high as 10 per cent,
fat content. Slovenly, incompleted milking
affects future yields, too, especially in the
case of heifers and young cows.
“C.0.D.” : Limewater is good for pigs, and
there is no danger of them taking too much.
To prepare it take a wooden cask and add one
bucket of lime to eight of water. Mix well
and then, when the lime has settled, the clean
water on top can be added to the slop food
at the rate of one pint of limewater to four
gallons of slop. When the scum ceases to
form on the limewater, add more lime.
“Jack Point” : Don’t expect chicks to do
well on ground that has been in \ise for
adult birds or for other chicks. All sorts
of germs are to be found in the soil on
which fowls have run unless it has had a
rest, preferably preceded by a good dressing
with burnt lime. Rape, planted a couple of
weeks after the liming, will grow quickly
and take all the unpleasantness out of the
soil, and rape is a first-class green-feed for
chicks.
“Ledraw”: Very few dairymen trouble
about cows’ teeth, although the teeth of cows
probably require more attention than those
of horses, because all sorts of hard substances
may be brought into the mouth, and are
liable to break the teeth. Cows failing to
reach the standard of milk production
should never be discarded until a thorough
examination is made of the teeth, for without
perfect mastication it is impossible to secure
perfect digestion, which is the basis of a
full milk supply.
“J.P.”: If only a limited area of ground
is available for chick rearing, and several
broods are to be raised, it is much better
to split it up and give each batch a separate
plot, for the first two months at any rate.
After that cockerels can be divided from
pullets. Pullets should be given the best
ground available. If they can be put on free
range on the colony system, they will grow
into fine big birds which begin to lay early
and will stand close confinement very well.
“Wrash”: For throwing and holding
calves not beyond the yearling age ropes
are not required, and are a waste of time.
One holder works at the head, another at
the tail. The headman places his thumb
inside the calf’s mouth where the animal
cannot bite, and twists the head to the left.
At the same time the tail-main lifts by
the near-side flank, and the calf falls gently
to his side. With a knee pressed against
the neck the headman then holds back the
muzzle and near foreleg, while the tailman
pulls backward the near hind-leg and presses
forward the other with the sole of his boot.
In this position the calf cannot kick or
struggle during branding and ear-marking.
“Davey Solong”: When farm machinery
has to be shifted a considerable distance
along metalled roads, wear and tear and
shaking loose of bolts may be avoided if
the travelling-wheels are covered with old
motor-tyres. Cut the bead off before wrap-
ping round the wheels, draw the edges to-
gether and fasten with fine wire, puncturing
the holes with a bradawl. If the tyre is
too large, cut a piece out and join neatly.
A stripper working on stony ground will
do smoother work shod in this way.
“Bufforp”: Last year at the Geelong
(Vic.) contest a white runner laid the pos-
sible, and now a fawn runner in a recent test
has shelled out 365 for the year. Runners are
a great farm-man’s proposition, being small
eaters, great foragers and doing little or no
damage to crops. They are the best pest
destroyers out, cleaning up grubs, caterpil-
lars and ’hoppers like wildfire. A drake and
six ducks will keep a home in eggs, and
supply fertile eggs for setting. Incubation
should be under a hen or turkey, as the
runner is a non-setter. Keep them in till
. about 10 a.m., then let them go, and
they will make home in the evening. They
like a swim, but don’t live on the water.
The birds are small, and what flesh is on
them is sweet.
“Baldy”: N.S.W. cattle-buyers looking for
fat bullocks have been very active in south-
west Queensland of late, but sellers are not
too keen. There is a shortage of fat stock
in the North, and prices in Brisbane and else-
where from meat packers and butchers are
very satisfactory. Indeed, the beef outlook
is most promising, large purchases of N.T.
and Gulf stores having built up the
depleted herds of the Central-West, with the
result that the supply of fats for the 1930-31
seasons should be adequate for all needs.
Further than that, there is no use looking
though, of course, even a short run of good
seasons will continue the present situation.


wmm
UK
m
m
i
%
w 4.
m
ffrrrr
'"//n
V/A
7//.
u
m
m
y,
a
f
I
m
U
r//M
m
W///A
mm.
m
VA
m
§
m
1
m
.
m
1
V
m
m
m
%
m
i
s
1
i
'4A
w
Amu.
m
1
HE hat superior ! It is a
MILLS! There is no doubt
as to this in the minds of
those who have judged its
very evident merits! In-
comparable workmanship
and finish vie for leading points with
attractive moulding and smartly curved
brim ! Don’t hesitate ! Let your choice
be —now and always —the hard-wearing,
shape-retaining MILLS!
JL Hat that suits yourJersonali ty
Obtainable at all the
leading Men’s Stores
A PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT HATS PTY.
LTD.
Ml 6


The cen/ne of Queen 5/a nc/a
' c/i s/tngu/sfrec/ Socio/ Life.
Motel
BRISBANE
ẃ
Magnificent Bal •-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal ol
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
Booking
AT
Busy Seasons
Never take it for granted that "The Australia” is full, or
listen to people who say "it’s no use applying—they’re sure
to be booked-up.”
On the contrary, our accommodation is equal to practically all
demands placed upon it. Should we be fully booked when you
apply, we will gladly arrange the next best available accom-
modation.
Telegraphic, Cable and Wireless Address: "Austraotel,” Sydney
Capital Paid-Up,
£422.100.
ẅ
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH
SYDNEY
iWhere /hall I stay'fi
(3
At the
GROSVENOR
Because it’s near-
est to the Railway
Station, all trans-
port facilities, and
theatres. It offers
300 fireproof rooms,
100 bathrooms, the
best of food, the
best of service.
T ariff:
From
£3/10/-
weekly
n
m
j Finest Unlicensed Jiotel
Opp. Railway Sia.North Terrace. ADELAIDE
SMOKE-OH!
Melbourne has a new C. of E. Head.
V *
“This action helped to clip the winks of the
Australian Air Force.” — Sydney News.
Well, it wanted waking up, by all
accounts.
« >{.
Some Nationalists are said to be making
Lathamatical calculations.
V *
“The crew of the Australia look forward to
being in Sydney for the Epsom.”
Epsom salts!
¥ *
Makers of this year’s swimming costumes
seem to have put little into their garments
but the cost.
H- H-
“Ha was a respectably brought up Irish lad, but
had fallen amongst bad companions.”
A case of too many crooks spoiling the
broth of a boy.
* *
SHORT FABLE.
The Hard Fate of the Pioneer.
“The time is coming when the adolescent who
commits a crime will rush to a children’s court for
treatment, as now a man with a physical affliction
rushes to a hospital.”— Lecturer at Sydney Medical
Congress.
A Razor Gangster, with a taste for Medi-
cal Research, who had Cut His Wife’s
Throat and suspected that a Detective
Knew, rushed to the Nearest Children's
Court. Having explained the Position, he
Demanded Treatment. “Certainly,” said the
Magistrate, and committed him for Trial on
a Charge of Murder. An Ignorant Jury
found him Guilty, and a Materialistic Judge
who had never read a Medical Congress
report sentenced him to be Hanged.
Moral for Criminals.
Beware of Utopias in which Justice lags
behind Science.
ROARING HIM HP!
“She is a sarcastic woman; she would throw
domestic utensils at me.”— Defendant in matrimonial
cause ( Sydney ).
Not so much sarcasm, this, as flat-irony.
VOWEL PHILOSOPHY.
“His shock showed in his voice; he pronounced
‘cheque’ ‘scheck.’ ” — Sydney Sun.
If I met someone with the face
To talk of “cheques” as “schecksl’d
quick
Make up my mind that in his case
The cause was much less ‘shock’ than
‘ shick.’
Percy Pawnticket.
“His thoughts are thinks of iniquity.”
From “W. M. H-gh-s. A Biography,” by
S. M. Br-c-.
¥
“Buildings cannot last for ever.” —S. M. Herald.
After all, they’re only bricks and mortal.
*
“We will look after your old blades.’’ — Safety-
razor firm’s advt.
But most of the old scoundrels say they
are quite capable of looking after themselves.
* *
“This London exhibition of feminine fashions will
reveal some jealously-guarded secrets.” — Melbourne
Herald.
We absolutely refuse to believe that any
new feminine fashion can reveal any more
than the present one.
“A good mother’s love is often selfish.” — Sun.
And a bad father’s love is often shell-fish.
A ROMANCE OF THE HEART.
JACK JUNIOR: “And now, dad, that I’ve told
you I’m going to marry Agnes, there’s
one more thing I’d like to get off my
chest.”
JACK SENIOR: “What’s that?”
JACK JUNRIOR: “A tattooed heart with
Maggie’s name on it.”
“He did not appear with the first fright but he
came with the second.” — Sydney News.
His wife, of course.
* *
“Fashionably dressed women attend the courts to
listen to these cases.”
What of it? They can’t be expected to
make themselves scares.
* *
“The Prime Minister turned savagely on his foes.”
—Argus.
Sick of being ill-hughesed, probably.
¥ * .
If the country throws Bruce out it will
simultaneously turn down the saddest Page
in its history.
t{.
In Melbourne a prominent politician who
was charged with speeding said lie was
hurrying to work. His effort is regarded
locally as the lie of the year.
* *
Last night, in Collins-street, Melbourne,
several gentlemen were importuned for money
by a young, good-looking member of the fare
sex. P'S. —He was a tram conductor.
* *
“The song was rejected a dozen times. At last
ho sold the copyright, in disgust, for ten shillings.”
Got his air off.
* *
THE AUSTRALIAN NOVEL.
Views of Mr. Augustus Backstop.
In search of opinions on the Australian
Novel we interviewed the Commonwealth’s
most distinguished unpublished novelist—Mr.
Augustus Backstop. His face expressed
revulsion as we disclosed our mission.
“Australian novels,” he said, “are rotten.
I wouldn’t read one if you paid me. Dulness
alternates in them with shrieking exaggera-
tion. They are the work of pallid prattlers
who imitate dullards like John Galsworthy. ’
“And yet,” we ventured timidly, “famous
English critics have praised several Austra-
lian writers. Handel Richardson, Katharine
Prichard”
Mr. Augustus Backstop’s eyes blazed.
“Critics!” he roared. “What are critics
but anaemic silverfisli whose only idea of
literature is to use four-score of personal
pronouns to the column?”
“English and American publishers”
we began.
Mr. Backstop’s face whitened with fury.
“I will tell you,” he said tensely, “of my
experiences with these inane
imbeciles. I sept them a num-
ber of my own novels. Eleven
to be explicit. They were Real
Australian Literature’. Literary
Ballarats. They dealt with' the
rich, throbbing Australian Life
which Pallid Prattlers can never
know. Strong, meaty stuff cal-
culated to make writers of the
drivelling English school writhe
with impotent fury. Red-
blooded”—
“When will these master-
pieces appear?.” we interrupted
respectfully.
“Such,” said Mr. Backstop
bitterly, “is the unbelievable
idiocy of the English fools who
publish the unreadable balder-
dash of morons such as Compton Mac-
kenzie and Walpole that they have refused
the lot!”
10-2-4.
PINCHING THE JOB.
(A POLITICAL DRAMS.)
Scene: A Legislature.
(King Bruce is discovered alone toying
moodily with a Canberra Golf Cup.)
King: Away, dull care! Let traitors snarl
and fight.
For me this emblem of a golfer’s might.
(,Tumult without; enter Page.)
King: What ho! Your trembling limbs and
wrinkled brow
Betoken fear. What is your
weakness now?
Page: King, I am sore beset
by howling mobs
Of Picture, Pub and Pony-
racing nobs.
(Hurls a document to the
ground.)
That budget, King, hath
spawned a million wogs—
E’en one-time pals are now
our bitter foes!
King: H'o, blund’ring yokel!
Badly hast thou failed.
No wonder we as idiots are hailed.
Page : You must be told a still more dread-
ful thing:
Sir Clifton Love would fain make Billy
king!
King: Out on you! All that Gullett ever
said
About your brains I now hurl at your
head.
(Flings golf cup at him. He flees, almost
colliding as he does so with bathchair con-
taining the nation’s Political Long 'Distance
Champion , who is being hurriedly wheeled
into the Presence.)
King: What ails thee, Pearce?
Senator ( agitatedly): My liege, he comes!
His gibes and platitudes resound like
drams!
Full-armed behind him leaps the Flapper
•Press;
All Hollywood is there in full undress;
Round-bellied bookies, pallid jockey-boys—
King ( with the quiet dignity of an Eng-
lish gentleman) :
It is the end. Let’s hear no vulgar noise.
Is- my tie right? Are both rhy spats on
straight ?
Good. I shall now proceed to meet my
Fate.
(Falls over mashie-niblick and dies politi-
cally as the ex-Dictator, W. M. Hughes,
assisted by his courtiers, Mann, of W.A.,
Clifton Love, of N. Sydney, the Federal
Labor Party and the capitalist interests of
America, ascends the throne.)
[Curtain.]
D. McM.
THE FORMULA.
Trap the golden sunlight,
Spin it into hair—
You’ve the crowning glory
Of my lady fair.
Steal the red of roses,
Crush their scented tips —
You’ve the hue and fragrance
Of my lady’s lips.
Find a brilliant sunset,
Pinch its crimson streaks;
Smear them on a lily. —
You’ve my lady’s cheeks.
Take, in short , a chemist’s
Stocked with lotions rare,
Paints and dyes and unguents —
You’ve my lady there!
O'BEAU.
GLOOMDEAN.
[A novel in the Marrow-freezing manner.]
I.
Bats. Bats clinging to the ceilings. Bats
flapping ghostly wings in the corridor. And
bats in Jasper Blue’s belfry. A hunchback
was Jasper, with red-rimmed eyes and a
straggling grey beard. He sat at the head
of the table, drinking great gulps of scald-
ing rum. Opposite sat his wife, a crushed
woman, nursing a lifelong grievance. At
the side of the table sat Jasper’s mother.
An eerie crone.
Jasper suddenly threw a plate at her. It
struck the wall and shivered into frag-
ments. The beldame laughed, "Broken,” she
wheezed. “Broken as you will be broken.
You’re a bad son, Jarsper, an’ a worse shot.”
11.
All through this distressing scene Meli-
sande had sat, her eyes deep wells of
thought, dull with pain. She looked at her
father and then at her mother, who was pre-
paring, if necessary, to slide under the table.
Mrs. Blue usually had her meals under the
table when her husband began throwing the
crockery about. She had seen a Willow-
pattern set smashed to atoms, piece by piece.
He had now started on the Royal Doulton.
A wave of pity flowed over her. She gazed
at her mother, who was just disappearing,
knife and fork in hand, below the edge of
the no longer festive board. The afflicted
woman’s lips silently framed the syllable
“Go!” Melisande went.
111.
She floated down the Death Walk by the
gnarled pines till she came to the Black
Pool. An evil place.... Melisande, with a
shudder, remembered how her brother Egbert
had been dragged from its depths, a corpse.
She looked at the water. It seemed to
beckon, to fascinate.... A peaceful death,
she had always heard.... She lifted her
eyes and met the haunting gaze of a Total
Stranger. And in a moment Melisande knew
that she 10ved....
IV.
Tobias Chotwynde—also a quick worker-
sensed simultaneously that he had met his
Twin Soul. Already Melisande had envis-
aged a three-piece suite and a pianola-
player. .. . But she must delay the sweet
surrender. Came a rustling. The sky was dark
with whirring wings. Bats, bats, bats
Involuntarily Melisande and Tobias gazed
towards the distant chimneys of Gloomdean
• •..Denge clouds of smoke, leaping flames.
V.
Hand in hand Melisande and Tobias
rushed towards the house. Melisande’s
mother was clinging with tense determination
to a soup-tureen—the last remnant of the
Royal Doulton. Her grandmother sat on
the grass, a maniacal smile lighting
up her withered face. “Ha ha, Jarsper!”
she shrilled. “I done it!” And then, having
registered the supreme achievement of her
life, she fell dead.. .. Jasper, with a strang-
led cry, seized the soup-tureen from his wife’s
clutch and; hurled it at her corpse... . Then
he rushed off, like a defaulting cashier, along
the Death Walk.
“Tobias!” cried Melisande, and blushed
from neck to forehead as she did so, realis-
ing that she had called him by his Christian
name. “The Black Pool!” They rushed
after Jasper. But too late. ... A few oily
THE CAR COMPLETE.
“Hear Freddie’s got a new attachment on
his car?”
“No, what’s it for?”
“Same old thing — debt.”
bubbles. The soughing of the wind in the
pines—the passing-bell of the last of the
Blues.
VI.
Melisande, seated at the pianola-player,
pedalled the sweet cadences of “That’s My
Weakness Now.” The gate clicked. ... She
rose and glided to the front door. Tobias
enfolded her in his strong arms. Then he
sank contentedly into one of the chairs of
the three-piece suite.
WAWHERESH.


/
w
OTHER FAMOUS OPERAS
RECORDED COMPLETE BY
COLUMBIA
(in English)
Cavalleria Rusticana [inEngiishj
Carmen (in French]
LaTraviata (in Italian)
Tristan & Isolde [in German J
Records
' ELECTRIC RECORDING WITHOUT SCRATCH
tut"
MAGIC NOTES
TRADE MARK
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Grafonola, Ltd., 39 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
VIC.: Columbia Distributors (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 300 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
QUEENSLAND: King & King, Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane.
A. E. Harrold, 123-125 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
W.A.: Phonographs, Ltd., 671 Hay Street, Perth.
S.A.: South Australian Phonograph Co., Ltd., Gilbert Buildings, Gilbert Place, Adelaide.
TAS.: Columbia Supplies (Tas.) Pty., Ltd., Launceston, Hobart and Burnie.


II
value
NO OTHER LOW PRICED CAR
HAS SO MANY ADVANTAGES
“FINGER-TIP Con-
trol—a single but-
ton, in centre of
steering-wheel, starts
engine, operates
lights and sounds
horn.
IN BEAUTY, size and performance, the new
Superior Whippet Six can be compared only
to cars of much higher cost.
Grace of line sets an ultra modern style trend
for all light Sixes. Bigger bodies give extra leg
room, head room and elbow room.
The new Superior Whippet Six is the world’s
lowest priced Six to offer the important engineer-
ing advantages of seven-bearing crankshaft,
silent timing chain, full force-feed lubrication,
aluminium alloy invar-strut pistons, and “Finger-
tip Control.
Let your nearest Willys-Overland dealer arrange
a demonstration.
c The new
supetCo J L
WHIPPET SIX
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LTD.
148-150 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
OVERLAND SOUTH
AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
62-70 Franklin Street,
Adelaide, S.A.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
53-63 Bathurst Street,
Hobart, Tas.
OVERLAND VICTORIA
PTY., LTD.,
117-121 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne, Vic.
ADAMS MOTORS, LTD.,
442 Murray Street,
Perth, W.A.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LTD
Breakfast Creek Road,
Newstead, Brisbane, Q.


I
Cruising to
JAVA and
SUMATRA
First-class round fare to Belawan
Deli (Sumatra), calling at Java ports,
Singapore and Penang: From Brisbane
and Sydney, £99; from Melbourne,
£lO5.
The K.P.M. invites you to wonder and wander in Java and
Sumatra, islands of exotic attractions.
Glorious days at sea, the comforts and conveniences of the
great Liners Nieuw Holland and Ni&iw Zeeland will be a
delightful holiday for you.
The steamer is your hotel for the round voyage of seven weeks.
Full particulars from
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY
(K.P.M. Line),
255 George Street, Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., 11l William Street, Melbourne; Dalgety & Co., Brisbane;
Elder, Smith & Co., Adelaide and Perth.
Hand finished to.
ensure perfection
L.vfl.
1.1 a/,i
TV
i-w
r
i
m
The finishing touches given to every
Kropp Razor before it is sent out from the
works are an essential part of the opera-
tions to produce this perfect instrument.
The Kropp Razor is entirely British and is
the product of skilled Sheffield craftsmen.
m
c lhe
ALL-BRITISH
KROPP
never requires grinding
Black, Ivory or Xylonite bandies. From the usua dea.ers.
AVOID SUBSTITUTES : Every genuine Kropp
stamped “Made and ground in Sheffield, England."
Wholesale only: OSBORNE GARRETT & CO., LTD., London, England.
ZjAat (vetej fyuritcf
Discriminating men appreciate the superb quality of “Rameno
Brand "Merino-Knit” Half Hose—distinctive and durable-
just what a man wants for every-day wear. Your Mercer will
show you "Rameno” Brand "Merino-Knit” Half Hose in choice
blended colours to tone with present fashions in men’s wear.
flSliljn
h &
%
%
'am
Mi
fitly',
'/tUfi
%
•m
Si
tyniiliili
m
%
m
ei\
Always fit
“RAMENO"
ERINOKNIT
‘ RAMENO” Brand
MEN’S HALF HOSE
Made onlg bg MERINO WOOLLEN MILLS PTY. LTD.
Collingwood, N 5, Vic., Specialists in Men’s High-Grade Knitted.
Cardigans and Sweaters, Half Hose and Golf Hose.
Ask for "Rameno” Brand “Merino-Knit” —and Qet it!
Pen and Picture
The
STARE
THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Shadow Shows
“Through Different Eyes” (Fox) is the
sort of story that the screen tells super-
latively well—in fact, better than any other
medium—and it is also a sensational triumph
for the talkies. It is one of those dramas
centred in a courtroom. The prisoner is
being tried for murder. .Counsel for the
defence addresses the jury, and as his words
roll out there is a flash-back and the crime
is reconstructed according to his notion of
it Then the prosecuting attorney upends
himself and once more the murder is enacted,
but this time as he wishes the 12 good men
and true to see it. Finally, the jury brings
in the verdict “Guilty!” Whereupon a girl
rises, screaming, from the body of the court
and once more the deed is recomposed, this
time after the correct version. The drama
is a very tight bit of play-writing and the
acting is remarkable. Mary Duncan is
obliged to adopt a different character in
each one of the flash-backs, sometimes the
shades of difference being of the slightest.
She does it splendidly. Her voice is reso-
nant, but clear and expressive, which fact
gets one’s sympathy immediately. No longer
does the voice stand as a wall between the
speaker and the emotions of her audience.
The same may be said in a slightly minor
key of Edmund Lowe, Warner Baxter and
Natalie Moorhead. A decidedly intelligent
effort.
In “Coquette,” Mary Pickford’s first vocal
picture by United Artists, the lady appears
as a little New Orleans girl with a habit
of flirtation. The object of her first endur-
ing passion is a wild young man “from the
hills,” of whom her father, a Southern
gentleman of the old school, heartily dis-
approves and forbids to visit his house. The
young man promises to retire to his moun-
tain fastnesses , and in six months qualify
MARY PICKFORD takes
to the Talkies.
for Mary’s
ha n d by a
strict atten-
tion to busi-
ness nature
of business not
stated. Be-
fore the time
is up, he
comes down
and leads
Mary away
from a coun-
try club dance
to bis mother’s
hut when his
mother hap-
pens to be ab-
sent. Mary’s
fath e r, sus-
pectin g the
worst, shoots
the young man
and is tried
for murder.
Iler lover
dead and ro-
mance blighted,
Mary is at first
prepared to see her father go to the electric
chair; but when she is called to give evi-
dence against him, family obligations triumph
and she represents the affair in the cabin
as a deliberate and brutal assault by a
human beast and one which succeeded in
its object. At this point the story touches
the sunlit heights of drama and Mary’s act-
ing is excellent. But no audience could
contemplate for long even the fictional
thought of her having lost her how-
ever involuntarily. In fact, it lias been
made privy to the secret from the start
that her love affair has been perfectly
innocent. The father, in his role of noble
Southern gentleman, then cross-examines
her; whereupon she breaks down and con-
fesses that she had libelled her lover in
order to save her parent from the charge
of unprovoked murder. The father then
makes a speech to the Court, shouldering the
blame, and, snatching up his revolver from
amongst the exhibits, shoots himself. Mary’s
second lover, who has harbored a deep,
unselfish affection for her, then leads her
off, and the inference is that her broken
heart will be mended. Although her voice
is not always in tune with the girlish charm
of her person, Miss Pickford is as expressive
as ever in her pantomime; and in the
dramatic passages she is the mistress of the
whole range of tragic emotions.
In “Thunderbolt” (Paramount) George
Bancroft wastes some forceful acting on a
pallid theme. He is Thunderbolt, an Ameri-
can gangster, whose goil is attracted to a
bank clerk. In seeking to settle with this
chap,_ he is arrested, and soon after the bank
lad is also run in for alleged complicity
rnv. a su PPOsed attempt to rob the bank.
Then you have them where the thoughtful
person who constructed the scenario has
strained to get them—-in cells that face each
other across a corridor. In other cells are
other criminals, all proud to bursting of
their crimes. They grip the bars like apes,
and boast loudly of their deeds. The result
is a terrible Sahara of film; and after the
long stagger through the desert, the oasis
turns out to be merely a cell-marriage
between the bank-clerk and Thunder’s ex-
bint, with, as a wedding present, the admis-
sion by Thor’s distant offspring that a
frame-up had been worked on the lad. Both
the first quarter and the last have merit.
“Blockade” (Radio Pictures) is almost an
ideal example‘of all a movie ought not to
be. It is hackneyed in theme (rum-run-
rung), artificial in plot, tedious in presenta-
tion incredibly ridiculous in ending,
that ending is a masterpiece of its terrible
kmd The rum-runners’ toy boat has been
tracked down by a secret agent, and swoop-
ing down upon it, in answer to the secret
agent’s signals, come a warship, a ’plane,
and, on the land, a troop of soldiers.
“Alibi’ (United Artists) is artistically
inept, but as an entertainer it stands in a
high class, and compared with the usual
movie of the methods of American police
and crooks, it is almost dignified. It scores
through being, what it is obviously the
principal aim of all such pictures to be,
really exciting. The plot is ingenious, with
several surprises in character so important
to the entertainment that it would be unfair
to the movie to divulge them. A policeman
who interrupts a bunch of fur burglars _ is
shot by someone hidden in a car. Suspicion
falls on a young fellow who lias already done
a brief term and is most busily engaged m
winning a constable’s daughter. The onlooker
knows that this young man,, on the night
of the crime, was at the theatre, but he
left his box hurriedly at an interval, and
it is not revealed what he did during that
term. The audience is cleverly led along
wrong tracks, with suspense becoming more
and more intense as the story progresses,
and the characters act consistently.
The Palette
The Society of Artists owes much to Basil
Burdett for his clever staging of exhibi-
tion at Sydney Education Gallery. The first
thing that meets the eye on entering, merely
a pencil drawing of three mice, by Lnk
White, would put the sourest critic in a good
humor, and that smoothing influence is ex-
tended by Lambert pencil drawings, Basil
Schoukhaeff oils and drawings, a small
Arnesby Brown landscape, choice Gruners,
Julian Ashton panels, and sundry other
exhibits, Kindly Lents, including Lambert s
brilliant exposition of how Lambert can
paint, with the figure of Julian Ashton fall-
ing amiably out of it. Of the new work the
most interesting things are Heysen’s glimpses
of the Flinders Ranges; arresting, stark
effects, one purchased by Sydney Gallery.
Adelaide Perry shows some good painting, in-
cluding a beautiful still-life; Will Aston has
a fine view of Macquarie-street, Sydney, and
Colin Colahan contributes an admirably
painted corner of an antique shop. These
and a fair string of others bear up well
beside the K.L. section.
Meynell Withers is not the painter his
late father was. There is a drabness about
the younger man’s viewpoint and his color
is often ill-regulated. In “Between the
Showers” and “The Day Is Over” (Sedon
Galleries, Melbourne) there is a freshness
of attack which is more promising.
There may be sentimental value in Will
Longstaff’s big war pictures now hanging
at Melbourne Town Hall, but artistically
they are of small account. If there is any
truth in Conan Doyle’s statement that they
were painted by spirits, then the knowledge
of tonal values in the astral world is slight.
In “The Spirit of Anzac,” for instance, the i
clouds are only half as far from the observer
as the immediate foreground is. In “Ihe
Immortal Shrine” the tones are more cor-
rect and the perspective is good, though there
is nothing inspired about the depicting of
ghosts by means of dabs of Chinese white.
It is the device of every hack cartoonist. “The
Pyramids” suggests an advertisement for
Turkish cigarettes
“Cezanne, Jun.”: Visitors to Sydney Art
Gallery now receive voting papers inviting
them to name the three best pictures in a
specified class, subjects being changed
monthly. At the lecture on the first Saturday
of the following mouth the result of the
voting will be announced; dissenters to be
permitted to speak out and have their
opinions tested by open voting. The first
three subjects to be voted on arc (1) por-
traits in oils, (2) British and foreign land-
scapes in oils, and (3) Australian land-
scapes in oils. The three popular choices in
each section during the quarter .will be
collectively displayed.
Robert Campbell, a young Melbourne
artist who went to Europe with Rupert
Bunny, lias sent to the Sedon Galleries the
results of a year’s painting. In one leap
Campbell has landed amongst the best-sellers.
He has got something striking into everything
he has attempted, whether it is a simple hay-
stack silhouetted against the cold light of
morning, or the savage tangle of the skyline
on Edinboro’. The artist has ottt-Herberted
Herbert and in his water-colors has shown
that he can paint as poetically as' Sturgess.
Nevertheless, his triumph is a little too sen-
sational ; his painting a little too facile. ITe
is like a man who has not so much learnt
about a thing as jumped to a conclusion. In
a few vears’ time Campbell may find, that he
has mistaken a seductive backwater for the
main body of the stream. Meantime he is
bound to be immensely popular.
The Inky Way
Harry Green is writing a history of Aus-
tralian literature which Angus and Robertson
will publish before Christmas. He is well
equipped for the task. A native of Sydney,
Green was called to the Bar, but went in
for journalism instead; he had two years
on S. M. Herald and 11 on the Telegraph.
Eight years ago he succeeded ,T. Le Gay
Brereton as librarian at his Alma Mater,
Sydney Uni. He has made many good
verses.
“0. McKay M.”: With the acquisition of
the Daily Herald by the Odhams combine,
the Berry brothers, Beaverbrook, Rothermere,
Odhams and the Cocoa Press will now have
the field of London daily journalism pretty
well to themselves. It was Odhams who
took over John Bull when Bottomley was
sent up for seven years. Australian press-
men who have worked in the musty Herald
office off Fleet-street will hope that they
won’t sack the doorkeeper—an ex-sergeant
of police with a rich store of anecdote of
the sort you never print.
“Six’’: A Darling Downs (Q.) parallel to
that Westralian gem quoted by “Vic. R.”
(B. 21/8/’29) :
That this little township is looking up is beyond
doubt. It is not long since eight young babies
arrived. Now there are rumors, and very strong
ones, that seven weddings are to take place in the
near future.


Tungstone HousC'Lighting Plante Batteries 36 10,000 a.h.
For Central Station— Works—Cinema—Yacht—Train.
For the First time in the World’s History of Plante Plate Casting, Tungstone’s Plante
Positive and Box Negative Plates are High-Pressure Machine Die-Cast in a Fixed Mould.
Up to the present, the Plante Plates or Car Pasted Type of all the World’s makers are Cast
by the uncertain method ot Hand Pouring the Metal Into movable moulds without Pressure.
Tungstone Deeper Cast Lammels and more Lateral Current-Distribution Ribs increase
the superficial area of the Positive Plante Plate by more than Ten Times.
The Lammels and Current-Distribution Ribs are guaranteed to be cast more accurately and solidly, in regular and
symmetrical line, free from broken, split or distorted Sections, thus.permitting Peroxide tc .form'deeply down to
grow generously and hold tenaciously. Guaranteeing even and simultaneous discharge from full sui iaces ot all plates.
Tunsstone House Lighting Batteries NO CORROSION AT INTER-CELL CONNECTIONS.
nil,! Patented Tungstone Permanently Eb.nited and Insulated Nuts and Belts which the Aeld eann.t Attack er Cwr.de.
Tungstone’s Strengthened Plate. Longer Life.
NO WEAK METAL iSPOTS IN TUNGSTONE POSITIVE PLATE.
More Metal Forced into any given Plate Area with an evenness
of Metal Distribution, Homogeneity and Reliability, producing a
Positive Plate that is entirely free from indiscernible blow-holes,
invisible cracks or splits, no burnt face surface areas or dross.
Increased rigidity of Positive Plate Structure absolutely secured
by the extra specially strong internal Conducting Bars. ""ST"
The increased stiffness of the Plates will withstand the stresses
of varying Peak Loads, Excessive Charges and Discharge?
Certain preventative against early Plate Buckling. fig
THE POSITIVE PLATE WORKING LIFE CONSIDERABLY INCREASED.
INTERNAL
STRENGTHENING
RIB
1
1
P
A0 ki -
w
p
Jr
Upkeep Costs
considerably reduced.
Exceptional High
Capacity Storage.
Very Low Internal
Plate stresses.
Uniformity of Charge
and Discharge on All
Surfaces. No Rapid
Voltage Drop at
E,nd of Discharge.
Figures point to Increased
Metal Bars in Plate
Design and Construction
Securing Longer Life and
Higher Capacity.
FIG.I
Only four continuous hours charge completes Works First Partial
Charge of any Tungstone Plante or Car Battery from 6 to 10,000 amps.
Plante can he immediately discharged for Light ONLY during First Charge,
WORLD’S REVOLUTION IN BATTERY PRACTICE. SAVING ALL OVERTIME
Tungstone’s Works First Partial Charge Entirely Prevents Sulphation and Damage «» Plate on First Charg
All s&tfipfi* Makers’ Box Negative Plates by the necessity of an exceptionally Long First Charge, always create Germs
Excessive portions of Active Material become permanently sulphated, which cannot be regenerated by subsequen re-c arges. ,
ifthe cause of decreased capacity and amp. hour efficiency, and considerably shortens Working Life of Plate. All other Makers box
Negative St end of ls S - a certain point that always stimulates Sulphation, Tungstone’s end of discharge is the Safe Point of ..93.
Tuwgstosie’s exclusive Works processes entirely prevent internal Sulphation to start or become a permanent part: of ? the Active
Material The Active Material is permanently converted into Pure Lead, no fixed patches of Sulphation germs y
Material. The Ac«ve MateriaUvpe but it is not malignant and on a short re-charge is converted into Pure Lead.
whv Makers* Box Neeative Plates Continually Lose Capacity making Shorter Working Lite
rung,tone Two Halve, .t the Pave Lead Perforated Gauze Sheet,, b, “thfresmr. Machine DI. Ca«lng
* are Riveted on both sides INTO the lour edges of the Frame.
Simultaneously they are also permanently fixed UNDER the four mam ribs
of the two Plate Faces.
By Tungstone’s original and exclusive system of construction the two Gauze Sheetsl " e
an integral part of the completed Plate. This perfect unison sm*
Active Material, increasing the Capacity Efficiency, also securing Longer Plate L
Tungstone Box Negative Gauzes cannot Fart from Frames
at the EDGES or SURFACES, therefore the cannot fall out to create a destructive Short
Circuit or gradual Loss of Capacity. Prolonged laboratory research has produced a Negative
Paste free from sulphation with high porosity which does not harden or lose its spongy proper les
harmoniously works throughout its active life in practical scientific balance with the Positive Plate.
All the World’s Makers (except Tungstone) Only Lay
the two Box Negative Gauzes on the Plate Faces.
They are not permanently fixed Into the four edges on both sides of! the frame*
This serious defect in all other makes of Box Negative Plates permits the Paste
to freely and continually drop out, creating Loss of Capacity, which demands
frequent Re-charging and earlier Re-plating#
Owing 9 doctrnvc Sk Plflflte RBttfifV.
mm
Patented and Registered Trade Mark in the
Chief Countries of the World.
BRITISH EMPIRE LEAD USED IN ALL TUNGSTONE CAR AND HOUSE LIGHTING BATTERI .
SYDNEY: A. J. Dawson, M.1.A.E., 91 William Street, Sydney. Tel. FL2GS4
MELBOURNE: Hocking & Hadden Pty., Ltd., 208 Latrobe Street.
BRISBANE: Brisbane Cars and Tractors, Ltd., 324-28 Wickham Street,
Fortitude Valley.
PERTH: R. Little & Co., 33 Pier Street.
ADELAIDE: Mechanical Supplies, Ltd., Grenfell Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Aldridge Ltd., Hearnes Buildings,
100 Dixon Street.


For
SPORTING and
TARGET USE
■4*yiX.
“HUNTER” Revolver, .22 calibre (as illustrated), 7 chambers, fires .22-calibre Short and
Long cartridges, 10-inch barrel, well balanced, comfortable wood grip. Made by Harrington
and Richardson. 40/- post free. Length over all, 14 inches.
“EXPERT” .22-calibre, 7-chamber revolver. Fires .22-calibre Short, Long and Long-rifle
cartridges, break action, lOin. barrel. Accurate and reliable. Made by Harrington and Richardson.
Superior quality. Highly recommended. 70/- post free. Length over all, 14 inches.
“HANDY GUN,” 410-gauge, single-barrel shot pistol. Throws a close, even pattern. Shoots
ordinary 410-gauge shot-gun cartridges, any size shot. This is a very popular gun among
motorists and horsemen. It is light, compact and effective. Length of barrel 12} inches.
Automatic ejector model. Length over all, 17 inches. 60/- post free.
Send for “GUN CRAFT,” our new 72-page catalogue of Guns and Rifles, crammed full of
interesting information about shooting. Post free.
Va
LTD
PTY
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
ẁ
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Horses from Maoriland are nearly always
prominent in Sydney at this time of the year,
and they liaye been more conspicuous than
ever this spring. For the last month, in
addition to other victories, they have cap-
tured all the middle-distance races at the
week-end meetings. At Randwiek on Satur-
day .they supplied first and second in the
two principal handicaps and first in the
Welter —three flat races out of five. And
had Limerick been saddled up for the
Chelmsford Stakes (he has been favoring a
leg, and Jones thought it prudent to with-
draw him) their record would, in all pro-
bability, have been more remarkable still.
There were 26 starters for the Tramway
Handicap—far too many. The consequence
was that a race which generally throws light
on the Epsom (Amounis won it last year)
turned out a scramble in which two-thirds
of the field were hopelessly placed after the
first furlong or so. Ceremony (10 to 1)
and Cimabue (25 to 1) were the leaders into
the straight, and Ceremony and Cimabue
were winner and runner-up respectively,
John Baron’s Adrian’s March (20 to 1)
being a fair.third. He is in the Epsom;
the two Maorilanders are not. Habashon
(5 to 1) did the best of the unplaced
division, and may pick up a race presently,
but it is unlikely to be the Epsom. Ramulus
struck himself and has been taken out of
the Epsom. Ceremony had failed at Canter-
bury Park the previous Saturday, but a
drop from 9st. 131 b. to 7st. 11b. helped him ;
he is only a little chap. He was ridden by
Webster (subsequently to be successful on
his father’s horse. First Acre, in the Welter),
and ran the seven furlongs in the very fast
time of lmin. 24^sec.
• ••»••
Impressed by the way he was gaining on
Limerick, Mollison and Winalot at the finish
of the w.f.a. race at Warwick Farm, this
Page picked Phar Lap to beat all the cracks
and the other three-year-olds in the Chelms-
ford Stakes. He did not quite do it, but he
ran such a clinking race that he is now in
great demand for the A.J.C. Derby and the
Melbourne Cup. in which he has 6st. 121 b.;
and all going well he will carry The
Bulletin’s confidence in both races. He
is an upstanding chestnut by Night Raid
(sire of Nightmarch) out of Entreaty, and
is so docile that he will come trotting over
to Telford, his owner and trainer, at the
whistle. An obscure fellow a month ago, his
one success in mediocre company at Rosehill,
he could now be sold for £5OOO, with contin-
gencies.
Cook rode an excellent race on Mollison,
and it was well for the Queensland-bred geld-
ing’s numerous supporters (he and Winalot
were at 2to 1) that lie did. Piloted as he
was at Rosehill E. M. Pearce’s champion
would assuredly have lost. Cook let Val-
paraiso do the pacemaking, and got the run
on the rails for which he had waited. Molli-
son soon had Winalot settled, but Phar Lap,
coming on the outside, threw out a strong
challenge. Continuing his long run, the
three-year-old gained with every stride, but
the post was too near and Mollison —all
out —got home by half a length, the nine fur-
longs being traversed in lmin. 52sec. Wina-
lot was a poor third, three lengths away,
the handsome Comanche being fourth. Val-
paraiso and Crucis were next.
Spearman is a good stamp of a Spearhead
gelding and should win fair races, intelli-
gently ridden. In the Spring Handicap, as
at; Warwick Farm, he was allowed to make
the running, and the result was that he was
done with at a mile and a furlong, though
he struggled on gamely. Too much use was
also made of Leadight, and Nightmarch
(6 to 1) and Paquito (9 to 4) had the
finish to themselves, Nightmarch beating
the other horse from beyond the Tasman by
a couple of lengths, it was a sterling per-
formance on Nightnnireh's part, for he car-
ried 9st. 41b. and ran the 10 furlongs in
2min. ssec.; nor was Paquito disgraced.
Leadight and Tidal broke even for third
place. Nightmarch is now a decided favorite
for the Metrop. Included in the strung-out
field were Inducement, Kavalli, Concentrate,
Nawallah and The Banker.
The easiest win of the day was that of
King William, The Bulletin’s fancy for
the Novice Handicap, and he went out at
15 to 1, though 20 to 1 could be got. His
tote div. (for 705.) was £5 15s. ; Polly
Flinders, the second horse, returned £ll
Os. 6d.
* * * ' *
For Rosehill on Saturday :
Camellia Stakes: Sion or Hah ash on ; next,
Loquacious.
Rosehill Cup: Bacchus; next, Spearman.
Hill Stakes: Amounis.
Rosehill Guineas : Phar Lap ; next, Carra-
dale.
Highweight Handicap: Black Douglas;
next, Sion or Aorangi.
NOTHING NEW.
INQUIRER: “Dad, it says here a little chap named David k.o.’d a cove ten times his
size called Goliath.”
EX-PUGILIST: “H’m; looks as if they know all about squarin’ a mill in them days, too.”
Since the restoration of his license, less
than two months ago, Billy Duncan has been
riding in great form on Vic. courses. Last
week he piloted three winners at Sandown
Park and two at Moonee Valley.
Operating on the Valley steeple, a dis-
gruntled bookmaker remarked, “Duncan hasn’t
a mount in this event. I can’t lay a bet.”
Whether much profit will acrue from follow-
ing, the little man is problematical, because
of cramped odds. For instance, Limber Up
started at 7 to 4 on Saturday and Potentate
at 2 to 1. Very little better was obtainable
at any stage. In less resolute hands both
horses would have failed. Limber Up Is way-
ward, and was left at the post at Caulfield a
week before. Potentate has a brilliant turn
of speed, but requires more than average
galloping room. Gerald Buckley, who bred
Limber Up, came down from his country
estate to see the Woorak—Queen Battery
gelding run. For a three-year-old, Limber
Up is rather mean looking, but Linierick was
no oil-painting at that age. Nor was the
1916 Melbourne Cup winner, Sasanof.
The progress of Victorian jumping is not
to be wondered at when the Moonee Valley
club can stage a £l5OO steeplechase as late
as September 14. The thing attracted the
best three timber-toppers in training, namely,
Sandhurst, Mosstrooper and Seafit. With
12st. 131 b. Sandhurst had to concede his
doughty rivals 101 b. each. Punters reckoned
that Sandhurst and Mosstrooper would have
the finish to themselves, but were woefully
astray. The favorites went at breakneck
speed until first Sandhurst and then Moss-
trooper snuffed out, Chaumont (8 to 1),
fencing superbly, kept reasonably close to
them and was in front with six furlongs to
go; then Gulyarri, Valbroy and Romeo sup-
planted him along the back. Valbroy looked
a sure winner at the home turn, but Chau-
mont put forth renewed vigor and scored in
the last stride by a head. He took ssec. off
the course record for 2 J miles over fences.
Shadow King, winner of the nniddle-dis-
tance Budgeree Handicap, carried 7st. 91b., or
31b. more than the impost allotted him in
the Caulfield Cup. He shared favoritism at
fives with Reputed King, for whom Billy
Duncan weighed out. .7. O’Brien, who topped
the winning jockeys’ list during Duncan's
suspension, was on Shadow King. Leading
throughout, he came home by a comfortable
margin from the fast-finishing Lalique. After
being smothered in the ruck Reputed King
gained third honors, and would have done
much better on a roomier course. ,T. E.
Brewer, represented by Finsbury, remarked
that no slow beginner could succeed at
Moonee Valley. Both Chariot and Solitas
were produced by \V. Foulsham, but neither
was sighted. Shadow King is owned by F. E.
Shillabeer. whose business activities included
railway construction in Central Aqstralia.
He has a big financial interest in Aspendale
Park course, and isi alarmed at the Govern-
ment threat to close it up under the new
Racing Bill.
Ted Fisher, who trains Shadow King, has
a stableful of fit horses. In the Coo-ee
Handicap, which Limber Up appropriated,
he took third prize with North Star, an up-
standing filly belong to R. Turnbull, V.R.C.
committeeman. North Star made the running
and did not give place to Limber Up and
Phocis until close to home. Fisher hoped ro
capture the first division of the Nulla Nulla
Welter with his own prad, Zanibar; but the
son of Quantock succumbed to Attraction
(4 to 1) and Cevantes. Eric Connolly
brought Attraction out from England, and
sold him to P. B. Quinlan, one of the younger
brigade of trainers.
For the Corroboree Handicap, Lucie Man-
et,te was backed from 9 to 2 to half those
odds. She experienced all kinds of bad luck.
Victory rested with a 10 to 1 chance, David
Garrick, who squeezed home by a head from
Doradus.
:|s * * =!:
For Mentone on Saturday :
Mentone Handicap: Reputed King; next,
Affirm.
AVelter Handicap : Donace ; next, Nereus.
“Thormanby” : The St. Leger, oldest, and,
to Yorkshiremen, the most important of all
the “classic” races, was won last week by
Trigo, winner of the Derby earlier in the
year. The colt is Irish bred—-by Blandford
out of Atliasi, a Farasi irt&re! His. owner,
W. Barnett, is an Ulster business man,
with a string of two. He was ridden by a
comparative unknown in Michael Beary,
and started at- s’s, the favorite being Penny
Come Quick, winner of the Oaks, who
finished down the course. The Leger is
always looked on as a snap for a really good
filly, the sex rarely doing itself justice at
Epsom. On this occasion the lady was
not as good as supposed, or else Trigo was
better.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Norman Gillespie, Australian lightweight
champion, and Harry Corbett, from England,
served up a sparkling 15 rounds at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night, a very small
margin separating the pair when .Toe Wallis
crowned Gillespie. Both clapped the pace on
from the start, and their fast two-handed
fighting and clever evasive work kept the
crowd cheering. Corbett’s quick-firing lefts
to the face and clean countering earned him
lots of points. Nevertheless, he took delivery
of many punches that hurt a lot, particu-
larly rips to the body, and found Gillespie
always willing to fight back and mix it with
him Gillespie 9st. 71b.; Corbett 9st. 7Ub.
* * * =i=
After the financial fiasco of the previous
week’s boxing, Melbourne Stadium relied on
grapplers to swell the coffers on Saturday
night. Ad Santel (13.0) and J. Browning
(16.4) were entrusted with the task. The
announcement of “Big Jim Browning” was
quite superfluous, as Jim’s bulk is only too
obvious. He has the usual stock-in-trade of
the profession, and this seemed quite satis-
factory to the crowd. Santel left his solitary
fall until the last round, and received the
verdict.
Footbrawl
Collingwood’s hopes of going through the
season unbeaten were wrecked on Saturday,
when Richmond, which the Magpies had
thoroughly trounced eight weeks ago, turned
the tables and handed the black-and-white
side the worst licking it has had for years.
Possibly the 20 consecutive victories since
Collingwood drew with Melb. in last season’s
semi-final left it too confident. Whatever
if was, the usual nippy, certain, systematic
play was absent. l J er contra , Richmond
marked perfectly, handled skilfully, and
passed with mathematical precision. Playing
with the wind in the first quarter Colling-
wood hardly held its own. Changing over
Richmond piled on goal after goal till, at
half-time, it owned 61 points to Colling-
wood’s 20. Thereafter it was a rout, Rich-
mond finishing with 123 points to Colling-
wood's 61. Play was vigorous, two of the
losers being injured and a winner getting
himself reported. Also a few spectators
were damaged in the crushes at the gates, and
a policeman and a youth were squeezed off
a balcony. Attendance, 51,061); "gate,”
£2485.
* * * *
“Fitzcray” : Every year the Victorian. Foot-
ball League awards a medal, donated by the
late C. Brownlow, to the best and fairest
player in the League competition. The
umpire in charge of each match is supplied
with a special card, on which he endorses
his opinion, handing it in sealed. At the
end of the season, the permit and umpire
committee go through the cards and record
the verdict. The medal for the year goes
to A. Collier, of Collingwood, Warne Smith,
of Melbourne, who won last year, being-
bracketed next with A. Hopkins, of Foot-s-
-eray, and A. Batchelor, of Fitzroy.
The final of the N.S.W. Rugby League
competition between South Sydney and
Newtown was played at Sydney Sports
Ground on Saturday, and resulted in a
runaway victory for South, the premiers
winning by 30 (S tries and 3 goals) to 1<)
(2 tries and 2 goals). If South had taken
the finishing stages more seriously, the mar-
gin would have been much greater. New-
town’s game gave cause for wonder that the
club ever reached the final. Blair, the vete-
ran skipper of South Sydney, played delight-
ful football, scoring three brilliant tries.
This is the ninth year South has won the
premiership since its inception in 1908, and
the fifth year in succession.
*"* * *
Having beaten York in the mid-week game,
the. Australian Rugby League players in
England scored their third victory on Satur-
day by downing Batley. Both wins were
convincing, the first by 32-11, and the second
by 27-5. York beat the 1921 Kangaroos,
and the forwards were expected to hold the
speedy visitors on this occasion. So far,
weather and grounds have well suited the
tourists. How they will shape in the mud
and rain of an English winter is yet to
be seen.
* H= * *
“Old Q.” • Queensland Rugby Union
finished its season very well satisfied with
itself, and it has good reason to be so.
Y.M.C.A., which has played fast and open
football all the season, won the premiership.
(.Continued on page Ji.)
That mighty cyclist Hubert Opperman,
rode a rare race to win the classic Goul-
burn-Sydney road-race on Saturday. Start-
ing from scratch in the professional section,
the Victorian rode right through the field to
finish first, though he had to give many
riders 75 minutes. His time for the 131
miles was 51ir. 59min. 55sec., or not quite
three minutes worse than P. Osborne’s
record, done with a strong following wind.
W. MeMurtrie won the amateur event off
the 53min. 30sec. mark, his riding time being
7hrs. 4min. 35 3-ssec.
THE COCKNEY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You rave about your Cups and such,
An’ all the glories of your Turf;
You swear the world has nought to touch
The ocean fronts on which you surf.
But garn ! I’d swop the ’ole of Bondi Beach
For just one dinkum look at Limehouse
Reach.
You talk about Ivuring-gai Chase,
St. Kilda-road, Centennial Park,
And many another picnic place
Where Nature smiles from dawn till dark.
But strike! I'd give the flamin’ lot —too
right—
To get a Whitsun on the Isle o’ Wight.
You skite about your Sheffield Shield,
An’ give your Bradmans wild hurrahs;
As champions of the footer field,
You boast and boost your Waratahs.
But stmth! I'd sell me evorlastin’ soul
To see Sam ’Ardy once again in goal.
You ask me when I’m goin’ back,
To that ’ere land I think so dear.
You tell me I should get the sack.
From out this sunny hemisphere.
But hold on, Dig! You needn’t pick a row.
'Fre’s one, at least, as couldn’t live there
now!
QUEEN SLA NP.
CHELSUS.


ANNOUNCING THE ft E l> U ft I I f
FL E E T MASTER
Presented by a newly merged, powerful organization,
*,
&■
-■ ,
WMmmm
- > -mm
HI
m
mmsm
a
a%wK*M
Hi
■Em-.
•**W/i'*
SSBSlisßf
■■■■■■■■
hhim
w
7 .
VV
vV:;
1
• f s>.
i
N i
i\
mtA
M
■wMWHftVrm-..,
z m
m aasfl
lit .v
Hp 1
H l."
it
am 11
THE LA FFANCE - FEFPELIC
o)TO
o'
Presents
FLEETM ASTER! La France-Republic s greatest contribution to motor-truck
transportation. FLEETMASTER! Leader of the complete new Republic line
that anticipates every hauling problem. Beautiful in appearance—supreme in
performance and value—built to haul tonnage throughout truck life at the
lowest cost per ton mile.
The consolidation of the Republic Motor Truck Company and its subsidiary, the
Linn Manufacturing Corporation, with the Commercial Truck Division of the
American La France and Foamite Corporation opens up new aspects of the
Motor Truck Industry.
All Republic Models are new —ranging from 30cwt. to 5 tons.
As a matter of interest and ultimate profit, ask your Republic Dealer about the
new range.
INTER-STATE AGENTS
NEW SOUTH WALES':
Tarke, Hoskins & Ob., Ltd.,
177-J8") William Street, Sydney,
VICTORIA:
Preston Motors Ptj
114 Franklin Street,
Ltd.,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND.:
Canada Cvcle & Motor Agency,
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Rascn Motors, Ltd.,
r>9 Wavmouth Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA :
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND:
Tnglis Bras. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets
Wellington.
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE, LTD., Crowle House York Street, Sydney.


W. W. GREENER
GUNS
For Quality,
Durability,
Price.
W. W. GREENER, LTD.,
BIRMINGHAM.
Wholesale Australian Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.,
405-07 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Catalogues on application.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
Jj*. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE ----- BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in (Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwuila Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
#PUHPTYPE
SUPER CHARCER
4. EFFICIENCY
w WITH ECONOMY
{ SIMPLICITY
Wholesale Agents and Stockists:
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BERT :"Our luck was dead out”
GEQT ‘"DONt tell me IT LOST 2"
Dert:"Ve& / e>y half a head”.
<SERT t W pOO(3 j WHAT HAPPENED
TO THE. OTHER HA\-P. ? ”
Footbrawl
“Tongs”: Some months ago a N.S.W.
Leaguer named Bishop, playing against
Queensland in Brisbane, retired from the
field with a broken hand and a bleeding
moutli. He claimed that another gentleman
had caused the injury to his hand by biting
him, and that the loss of his teeth was also
due to attentions paid him by his oppo-
nents. In any case, he put in a
claim for a dentist's bill, and the League has
resolved to pay up. It seems to open the
way to contention. As the writer's old
acquaintance, Johnny Quinlan, remarked at
the League meeting which agreed to the
claim, the precedent, is a dangerous one. If
the League has to foot the bill for replace-
ment of all the fangs punched out in a
season, its credit balance is likely to take
on a shrunken aspect.
* :|: * *
“Stoush”: That Maher Cup fuss between
Junee and Cootamundra (B. 4/9/’29) has
been palely described by your correspondent.
Not only was the libellous label attached to
the pot, but the thing itself was overwritten
with parting messages, some of which can-
not be reprinted in a family journal of The
Bulletin's standing. The cup having been
dispatched to Junee as described, the (’ootas
made an attempt to lecover it. In this they
failed, and insult was added to injury. As
the spedal bearing the Cootas pulled out
of Junee platform after the match it was
bombarded with eggs. Members of the de-
feated party who had their clothes ruined by
the barrage intend, not only to sue the assail-
ants for damage, but to report the whole
happenings to the N.S.W. Egg Board.
“Kiora”: A lot of the old Rugby Union
crowd in N.S.W. will hear with regret of
the death of Joe Otway in Auckland. .Toe
was a typical M.L. forward, and repped for
Auckland Province before he came to N.S.W.
He was a prominent player in the Arfoma
Club of those days, before district football
was instituted. Later, he represented
N.S.W. against the M.L. native team, in
1888, and played against Queensland in the
following year.
* * * *
, “Shrewsbury” : The British Football Asso-
ciation has been considering the matter of
issuing permits to Soccer teams desirous of
touring the Continent and other “furrin
parts.” As the Association delicately puts
it, some of the foreign sides encountered re-
cently have shown themselves “lacking in
sporting restraint,” while the spectators are
even worse in that respect. Newcastle United
had a hot time in Hungary recently, and the
Tynesiders are no ladies’ maids, either. Chel-
sea, just returned from touring the Argen-
tine, reports even more unpleasant conditions.
The ’Tinos, having won an Olympic cham-
pionship in the absence of any teams of class,
are convinced they are the world’s cham-
pions, and don’t like people who try to dis-
prove the fact. In one important match the
onlookers rushed the field, and converted the
Chelsea skipper and one of the forwards into
cot cases.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: Australia’s hopes of seeing
a French team in action this season have
been considerably dashed by the news that
Ooehet and Borotra are likely to tour Egypt.
India and Japan, ending up in the Mikado’s
country about Christmas. They will travel
in company with the Japanese champion.
Yoshiro Ohta, who is understood to have
arranged the tour. No reply to the Austra-
lian invitation has yet been received from
France, and whether Australia will be in-
cluded in the itinerary is quite uncertain.
It will be little use if the tourists come
on to this country after the end of the
Japanese visit. If they are to include India
and Egypt, there doesn’t appear to be air
hope of their arrival in Australia earlier
in the season. The wdiole situation is another
example of the bungling which seems to
have become an ingrained habit of the Aus-
tralian tennis authorities.
* * *
“Hotham”: Victorian tennis addicts are
gloomily regarding the state of the game in
the Cabbage Garden. N.S.W. is in the ascen-
dant nowadays, and the Yarrasiders have
arrived at the conclusion that the Ma State
climate is responsible for it all. The game
can be played oil grass in Sydney all. the
year round, says one envious expert writing
in the press. In Melbourne it is only possible
from May to September. It may be true, but
the climate doesn’t seem to have changed
at all since the days of Brookes, Dunlop,
Patterson and O’Hara Wood.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: A horrible scandal has
arisen in tennis circles. The Queensland
tennis authorities suddenly notified the
N.S.W. heads that they couldn’t send down
Cummings and Moon to take part in the
N.S.W. exhibition tourney because they
couldn't afford to. having blued up 70 per-
fectly good quids in entertaining the N.S.W.
team in Queensland recently. This was a
staggerer, since the N.S.W. crowd were sup-
posed to pay their own exes., while Queens-
land had further agreed not to hand out
any brass without the sanction of the Ma
State organisation. The question is, who
got that 70 quid V The baksheesh hounds
have been set on the trial.
The Watermen
“Blade”; Rowing in Australia this season
promises well. Unfortunately, it will be
impossible for an M.L. eight to come to Syd-
ney for the State championship, but the
Henley-on-Yarra committee expects the Ham-
ilton four, which carried off the Stewards
Challenge Cup some years ago, while the
Tamar Club, in Tassy, is also boating a
crew on the Melbourne trickle. Foiled in
its desire to meet a Maoriland crew, Mos-
man has definitely disbanded its famous
eight, but four of the crew will go to Mel-
bourne for the Stewards event. Sydney Club
may supply the eight from the N.S.W. side.
Pearce will probably turn out for the Light
Blues in the sculls, and the Henley authori-
ties are at present moving heaven and earth
to get Canadian Peter Wright across from
Vancouver to meet him.
* * * *
“Shell”: Amateur sculling is showing a
marked revival in N.S.W., and it is proposed
to add several additional events to the official
programme of the N.S.W.R.A. One of these
will take the form of a race over the Olym-
pic course of 2000 metres, in addition to
the State championship over the usual dis-
tance. It is probable that the new race
will be listed for the Sydney Club’s regatta
on the Parramatta on November 23. An-
other suggestion is a State lightweight cham-
pionship. This seems superfluous. Neither
Hanlan nor George Towns was in the ele-
phant class, to name only two great scullers,
but it was never the other fellow’s weight
that troubled them.
“Stretcher”: “Ossie” Wood, Mosman’s
coach and sole N.S.W. selector, will not
again be available for the latter job. He
was the first sole selector to be appointed
for many years in N.S.W., and he scored a
bull’s-eye at the first shot by picking his own
club crew as State representatives in the
inter-State race for the King’s Cup at Perth,
which they won so brilliantly. This year
the race will be rowed in South Australia,
and N.S.W. will have to boat a reconstructed
crew, the Mosman eight having broken up.
Likely men to fill Wood’s place are E. E.
Kearey, of Leichhardt: Claude Rosevear, of
Sydney; and George Mackenzie, who looks
after the Uni. and Scots crews.
The Ins and Outs
W T. Kelly, one of the Victorian repre-
sentatives on the Board of Control, has been
named manager of the next Australian
Eleven for England. He has long been
connected with the Richmond Club as player
and official. Tom Howard, chosen as
treasurer for the tour, has occupied the
same possy for the Board of Control for
some time.' For years he has been a promi-
nent figure in N.S.W. cricket. Jack Ryder,
who will certainly captain the team, Dr.
Dolling, of South Australia, and R. L. .Tones,
of N.S.W., have been appointed selectors,
last year’s principle of a selector from each
of the four Sheffield Shield States having been
abandoned. The appointments will meet
with general approval.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The decision of the Cricket
Board of Control to send only 15 players
on the next tour of England is one of doubt-
ful wisdom. Both Australia and England
have found in the recent past that even 16
were hardly enough, with the result that,
many players were overworked. It is pos-
sible that the decision may be varied before
the side leaves, as there is plenty of pre-
cedent for such a step. The profits made
from these tours are so huge nowadays that
the cost of an extra man, running to some
f6OO, to hardly worth considering.
“Jolimount”: The Australian Eleven
leaves on March 12 next, and will re-cmbark
for the homeward voyage on September 27.
The opening Test begins at Trent Bridge
on June 13, and the opening dates of the
other are: June 27 (Lords). July 11
(Leeds), July 25 (Old Trafford). and August
16 (The Oval). The first four will be
limited to four days, while, if a decision is
necessary, the last match will be a fight to
a finish. This is the first time the three-day
tradition has been departed from in the Old
Country, though the final Test of the last
tour was played out. Hours of play will
be from 11.30 a.m. to 6.30 p.m., and leaving
the ground for a shower or massage is for-
bidden. This last rule is a result of the
“regrettable incident” following on the retire-
ment of the English bowler Geary for a
rub-down at Adelaide.
* * * *
“Headingley” : English critics have some
hope of springing a surprise on the next
Australian Eleven with E. Clark, a young
Northamptonshire professional, who is that
cricket rarity a left-handed fast-bowler. For
some reason or other, the mollyhander, when
he is a bowler, confines himself to the slow
stuff, though there have been a fair amount
of medium-pace men. Both in England and
Australia the list of slow lefthanders far
exceeds that of any other pace combined.
F. R. Foster was about the fastest expo-
nent of left-hand trundling we have seen in
Australia, and he was but fast-medium at
most.
* * '
“Aigburth”: The result of the match
between Chapman’s team which toured Aus-
tralia last season and a “Rest of England”
side chosen by Lord Hawke suggests that
English bowling is not yet ahead of the
batting. The returned tourists put up
the stiff score of 553 when they closed
with five wickets down. That Mead, who
was the most pathetic of duds in Australia,
should have made 233 of that is eloquent* of
the feebleness of the English attack, outside
Tate and, perhaps, Larwood. Certainly,
Staples, the Notts bowler, who was invalided
home from Australia last year, did well
to get 11 wickets in the match for 189,
but that didn’t prevent Frank, Woolley (88)
and the resurrected J. W. Hearne (124)
making a draw of it. Australian J.O
Allen, by the way, took 75 with the bat.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Marino”: The Australian women’s golf
championship, played on the Seaton course,
near Adelaide, was won by Miss Wray, one
of the outstanding women players in N.S.W.,
from Miss Tolhurst, holder of tin* Victorian
title. The winner, a member of the Austra-
lian Club, has figured prominently in the
event for years: she first won in 1907,
repeating the feat the following year. Inci-
dentally, a N.S.W. player had not been
successful since 1911. The new champion
now ranks with Mona McLeod, of Victoria,
as the only player to take the title three
times.
* * * *
Now is the season when the country golf
clubs lure the aloof dweller in the metro-
polis to their rural fastnesses. Moss
Vale (N-S.W.) is early in with an open
amateur invitation tourney on October 5 and
7. In all there will be eight events, the
principal one being a 36-holes stroke-pla.v
tussle from scratch for the Golf in Aus-
tralia Cup. Handicaps and matches for
associate members also figure on the pro-
gramme, while special arrangements have
been made to accommodate the expected rush
of visitors.
“Pitch”: The correctness of the view
taken by “Marino” (B. 11/9/’29), that long
hitting from the tee is not the all-in-all in
golf which many people suppose it to be,
is borne out by the experience of that mighty
srniter Cyril Tolley in the American ama-
teur championship. Tolley, who won the Eng-
lish title hands down and was confidently
backed to win the American event, was
knocked out in the semi-finals by O. F.
Willing, who finished 4 up on him, with 3
to play. Willing is a fine performer on the
green, and when Tolley tried to balance this
advantage by getting extra distance the
usual sequel followed—he gulled and sliced
his shots. That was his finish.
# * * *
“Cranoustie” : For many years Scotland's
chief exports to America have been whisky
and golf balls —there is a closer connection
between the two than the neophyte may
imagine. According to latest figures, the
trade —in golf balls at least —-is falling off.
Last financial year only 2,300,000 balls were
imported by the U.S.A., while the year
before 3,353,714 wmre landed on Uncle Sam.
Either the latter is making his own pills, or
else he is cultivating the spirit of economy
shown by my friend the Laird of Cockpen
on making his annual visit to the local sports
depQt. The Laird inquired for one of a
particular make of ball. On being asked how
he found the brand, he said : “Fine; this yin
Ah hae here Ah’ve used these twal’ month-.
Ye’ll mak’ me an allowance gin Ah tak’
anither, Ah dinna doot?”
*** ■ ' *
“The Mcllaggis” ; According to an English
golf journal there is a movement afoot to
increase the size of the hole in golf. The
present diameter is 4+ inches. Why and
when that size was determined nobody
knows. It is unlikely that the Rules of
Golf Committee at St. Andrews will fall
in with the suggestion. For one thing it
would be pandering to the spirit of change,
and that is not a thing the committee is
famous for. Further, it would make the
game easier, and that also is to be depre-
cated, for half the fascination of the thing
lies in the impossibility of playing the same
quality of golf for two games running. Also,
a great deal of golf is mumbo-jumboism, and
it is essential that this atmosphere should
be preserved if the demigods at St. An-
drews arc to retain their worshippers.
(Continued on next page.)


BEf
stcisreg
dUSTOAIE
Follow the advice of experienced motorists who
have proved B.E.S. Spark Plugs perfect under
all conditions. Equip your car and ensure
efficient ignition. Fully guaranteed. All garages.
Price 4/6.
Manufactured by
Australian Spark Plugs Pty., Ltd.
562 Spencer Street, Melbourne, C.i.
'Phones: F 4947, F 5961.
Accommodation
160.
Gentral,
Comfortable,
Convenient,
5 Mts. G.P.O.
Excellent
Cuisine,
Billiards,
Dancing.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TARIFF-
Weekly,
£3/3/- to
£4/4/-
Daily,
11/6 to 12/6.
Room & B’fast,
8/6 to 9/6
FL2034
F 3575
W&W26.
I/^ustralianl
BUMS
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
bran*
iA-Z
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Motallie Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association B;
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
' l ei a U
Br **kf ast
Tariff
if desired i
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
&
HOTEL
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel,” Sydney.
Car and Cycle
“Old Q.” : One of the difficulties attaching
lo motor-racing and speed-trials has been the
timing. The day has long gone past when
the human element with all its variations
has been accepted as reliable. Electro-
mechanical devices are numerous, but all
but the most elaborate and expensive of
these have proved untrustworthy. At a
reliability trial held recently by the East
Brisbane Auto Club a simple electrical
apparatus invented by E. V. Welch, one of
the club members, proved a great success.
Instead of breaking cotton threads at the
start and finish to operate the apparatus,
file car snaps a cord holding an insulating
piece between two contact faces. These
come together, the completed circuit starting
the watch, which is similarly stopped at the
finishing line.
* * * *
“Toute en Suite”: France, traditionally
the mother of new ideas, has recently intro-
duced a little bi'ightness into the rather
dreary business of motor-trials. Formulae
have been thrown to the winds at many
motor-meetings, and cars are being tested to
discover other virtues than ability to climb
a hill, without exploding, and all that sort
of thing. At Le Touquet recently each
competing car was compelled to carry a pas-
senger bearing a goblet full of water during
the run; the winner was the car whose
passenger had spilled the least washing
material from the goblet. A photograph
shows that the winning car carried as a
passenger a most attractive young person in
a bathing-suit, which far outvies anything
yet seen in the Sydney daily press. They
do order these things better in France.
**• * * ,
“Hoppitt”: Women are bulking bigger
than ever in the motoring world. Already
the street-crossing pedestrian puts an extra
foot into his jump when, looking round to
see where the honk comes from, he descries
a woman at the wheel. I am moved to
these reflections when noting that a Miss
G. M. Stewart has put up a world’s record
for her sex by driving a car 101 miles and
062 yards in an hour on the Mon till ery track.
It was a tliree-wheelcd car too. What the
young person would have achieved if the
vehicle had four or six wheels staggers the
imagination of the writer, who, apart from
perambulators, has little technical know-
ledge of modern-wheeled transport.
“Garry”: One of the most interesting
developments of latter-day motor-design has
been in connection with the sports car. ‘ A
real sports car isn’t a stock touring-model
fitted with a two-seater body and torpedo-
shaped excrescences, and deprived of wind-
screen and silencer. It is a car built pri-
marily for high speed, and the best English
and Continental examples, apart from the
expensive contraptions whose li.p. runs into
three figures, carry a small very high-speed
motor, which, to be kept doing its best on
varying grades, and under other varying
road conditions, must be operated very intel-
ligently in the matter of gear-shifting, so
as to keep the engine turning over at its
maximum pace. That involves a lot of
close attention, and isn’t a job for a lazy
or incompetent driver; but for the individual
who can appreciate high mechanical efficiency
and the wonderful performances of which
comparatively small motors can be made
capable, they add a new zest and interest
to motoring.
* * * *
“Kick Starter”: The N.S.W. Auto-cycie
Union is to stage a Tourist Trophy series
for the Australian championship in the Goul-
burn district next, Easter. These events
are important annual affairs in Britain
—the famous Isle of Man race has a Euro-
pean reputation—while South Africa also
features a similar function. The first held
in Australian was in 1915, under the eye
of the M.C.C. of N.S.W., and the last in
1924. There will be valuable trophies for
senior and junior events over 100 miles, and
also for all-powers solo and side-car handi-
caps over 27 miles. Goulburn! Shire Council
will arrange to close the roads on the circuit
for the events, and it is hoped to make the
meeting a memorable one.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: This year’s Tour de France
cycle-race had little interest for Australians,
since no one from this side was competing.
The long road-race —it covers 3000-odd miles
of country ranging from sea-level to above
the clouds —was won this time by the Bel-
gian rider, M. de Waele. He was, of course,
a member of one of the famous trade teams
(the Alcyon-Dunlop), otherwise he would
have had no chance of landing the first
prize, as Australian Hubert Opperman found
last year. His time was 186 hours, 39min.,
]6sec. Ila was runner-up to Frantz in last
year’s race and the one before that. Nicholas
Frantz ran fifth on this occasion.
Miscellaneous
“Blue Chalk”: Clark McConachy’s victory
over Willie Smith in Melbourne w r as due to
the dogged consistency which lias marked the
Maorilander’s billiards since he first came to
Australia a few years ago. Since then,
practice against the Landrums, plus the
experience of a trip to England, has improved
his game a hundredfold, and he can now claim
to be one of the elect. With Smith and
Walter Lindrum Mac. left for England the
other day, and all should have a splendid
season. A ten-weeks’ programme has been
arranged, and British billiardists are all agog
to see the visitors, especially Walter Lindrum,
who will be stacked up against the present
English champion, Joe Davis, as well as Tom
Newman, Claude Falkiner, and other top-
n etchers of the green cloth.
* * * *
“Fore Sheet”: If there is any philan-
thropist knocking about Sydney with £5OO
he doesn’t want, he might hand it over to
the yacht clubs, which are looking for the
cash to build a third craft in the 21ft.
restricted class. The money has already
been raised for two, which are now nearing
completion; it is considered that a third is
necessary to give N.S.W. a chance in the
tourney for the Forster Cup in Melbourne
early next year.
❖ X * :J:
“Dry Fly”: Tasmania is bent on emulat-
ing Maoriland’s success in acclimatising
the Quinnat salmon. Fry from ova got in
M.L. have been liberated in the Iris River,
and in a couple of years the results, good
or bad, should be apparent. The Quinnat
promises to becotne not only a commercial
asset to M.L., but a very important addition
to that country’s already tine sporting facili-*
ties. Tasmania, which already owes much
to its trout-fishing, may benefit in like degree.
* * * *
“Check”: The latest game to take on a
federal scheme of organisation is lacrosse,
delegates from five States having decided to
form an Australian Council. Fast and
spectacular though it is, the old Red Indian
sport has never quite caught the public fancy
in Australia, though in one or two of the
States, notably South Aus., it has a good
hold. The visit of a team from Canada or
Britain has been suggested as likely to
advertise it.
# * * *
“M.”: I have persisted in playing bridge
for 27 years, and have only once seen the
whole of one suit dealt to one player. The
recipient was an excitable Irish medico, who
took one look at his 13 diamonds, sprang
to his feet and bellowed “Seven no trumps!”
His opponents made all the tricks, and
claimed a grand slam- —which was allowed
by a decision of the Union Club. This
incident happened in Sydney, and the claim
of the slam caused quite a controversy. Of
course, the vivacious doctor should have bid
seven diamonds.
* * * *
“Splash”: The Sydney flapper press was
thrown into a fever of anticipation at the
news that Ena Stockley was coming to
reside—and of course swim—in Sydney.
The young lady represented M.L. at the last
Olympiad, and made a better showing than
our own overboomed representatives. When
here a couple of years ago she had no diffi-
culty in beating the best of the local talent
in her special line, though one ardent mathe-
D.J. PRICE, a prominent Victorian trainer.
matician almost invaded the fourth dimension
in his effort to prove in the daily press that
on comparative times she ought to have lost
a race that she really won.
-I* -!■ He
“Solidarity” : Serious trouble is to be anti-
cipated in feminine swimming circles. The
Australian Swimming Union has decreed
that all events for women must be con-
trolled by the men’s organisation in each
State. The girls have risen in rebellion with
one squeal, as it were, and have threatened
that if they cannot have their own way, they
w r ill declare the A.S.U. black as the inside of
a tar-barrel on a moonless midnight, and
apply for direct affiliation with the Federation
dc Fatation Amateur. Mass picketing may
mark the opening of the swimming season,
now imminent, and officials of the male
associations are already taking precautions
against basherette gangs.
“Hotham” : Now that the Victorian croquet
selectors have chosen the team for England,
excitement has died down and sport followers
are turning attention to the football finals.
The Council asked for only five players, but
the selectors have wisely chosen six. in view,
no doubt, of possible casualties. The side
C. DIBBS, goalkeeper for Collingwood
(Vic.).
chosen Ims given general satisfaction, for by
all accounts the players are a hefty lot, not
afraid to throw their weight about. This is
what is needed if the ashes are to be regained
from England, where they notoriously play
the game without what the daily press
writers like to call “beg pardons.”
; J* ! t ! sj!
“Spike”: Nurmi has met the fate of
all runners who persist in lingering too
long on the cinders. Running his pet
distance of 3000 metres at Warsaw, the
Finn was beaten by Pietkiewitz, who showed
up so well in the English championships in
July last. Piet got home by only a yard, and
the nature of the struggle is shown in the
time recorded, Smin. 5 l-ssee. If the cabled
figures are correct this is a huge slice off the
previous world’s best, the Smin. 20 2-sscc.
recorded by Nurmi at Stockholm in 1926.
* * *
“Zeehan”: N.S.W. scored handsomely in
the 10,000-metres cross-country champion-
ship of Australia, gaining third, fourth, fifth
and sixth places and the title. The race was
run on Elwick racecourse at Hobart, and the
finish saw a neck-and-neek battle for first
place between Hillliouse of Victoria and the
Tassy crack, Barwick. Hillliouse won in
33min. 23sec., a record for the race, but
Barwick was only 2sec. behind him—and that
should be another record for a 10-mile go.
The time is astonishingly good, too, consider-
ing that Paavo Nurmi’s world’s record for the
same distance on the flat is 30min. 6 2-ssec.
In this connection it is questionable whether
a run round a steeplechase course can truly
be deemed a cross-country event. It certainly
would not be recognised as such in England,
the country which first evolved this particular
branch of running.
# * * *
“Backwoodsman”: Melbourne Orchard,
who was one of those instrumental in found-
ing the International Bowling Board, has
been advocating the formation of a bowling
club at Geneva. His idea is that, under
the benign influence of the game, delegates
to the League of Nations would forget their
differences, and so bring world peace a step
nearer. I doubt it. Bowls induces more
ferocity than any other game with which
the writer is familiar, save, perhaps, golf
or curling. Anyone who knows what, say,
the No. 3 of a beaten rink thinks and
sometimes says of his skip, and what his
skip thinks and always says of his No. 3,
will understand me.
* * * *
“P.8.P.” : Let me add my protest to that
already levelled against the growth of bowls
in South Aus. (B. 11/9/’29). The insidious
craze has gone even further than “Lying-
Two” has hinted —it has invaded the sanc-
tity of the home. Under the guise of indoor
bowls, the practice has become as prevalent
in Adelaide and other South Aus. centres as
cocaine-sniffing in Darlinghurst. Played
indoors with miniature implements and oh a
special strip of matting, its lure has proved
irresistible. Even little children—the pity
of it! —have been caught up in the snare.
I know, because one of the brats beat me
badly the other night at the Blenkinflopps’
at-home.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“John B.”: A Lithgow (N.S.W.) brewery
is giving decentralisation a jolt—it is supply-
ing Sydney with beer. Many of the free
hotels in the metropolis are taking Lithgow
stingo. A Melbourne-Sydney syndicate which
bought the brewery for £75,000 has still
wider ambitions; it is negotiating for the
sale of its brew in China.
:'c :jc :J: :-c
“P.M,”: Placed on its no .tie by motor
competition, the Vic. Railway Department is
making special efforts to retain the wool
traffic, which is the most payable line at
this time ofi the year. Wool received at our
local station late in the afternoon is loaded
straight into the truck, and gets away by
the eight o’clock train next morning. Reduc-
tions in the staffs have made the railwayman
wide awake. It is now a case of get
freight or get out.
❖ =!: * *
“Retired Forty” : Roma (Q.) is making the
most of its gas flow, even if a gusher has
not yet been struck. The absorption plant at
Roma Oil is now turning out petrol of high
quality, which is finding a ready market at
2s. a gallon at the bowser. Over 400 gallons
were sold the first day, and orders for ton lots
are coming in from the pastoral runs, most of
which now employ motor transport exten-
sively.
* * * *
“Acct.” : There’s a catch in this multiple-
telegram business (B. 4/9/’29) To one
suburb I sent a multiple containing 20 dif-
ferent addresses, there being six words in the
text and an average of five in each address;
total, 156. At 9d. for the first 16 words
and a penny each for the extras, the charge
was 12s. 5d.; with sd. per copy added, 1
had to pay 245. lid. Had I lodged 30
separate telegrams at 9d. each the cost
would have been 225. 6d.
* * * *
“Label”; The triumphs of the Waghorns
and Segraves are due to British machines
being able to stand up to tremendous speeds
as well as to attain them. British railway
engines and tracks are likewise built to stand
any strain. An express which leaves the
West of England at 2.30 p.m. has to be in
Paddington by 4.55 p.m. It does the last
771 miles from Swindon in 70 minutes,
averaging 66.21 m.p.h.—the fastest train-run
in the world.
* * * *
“0.P.H.”: Somebody offered Vic. Agricul-
tural Department a pound for the potato by-
products plant for which Hogan paid £1376
when he was Premier. Little as the McPher-
sons think of the glucose and starch machin-
ery, they were not prepared to part with it
for that amount. If the man had said 960
sovs. instead of 960 farthings there might
have been a deal.
=:= * * Jc.
“Lambtou”: Three Avro-Fokker ’planes,
each fitted with three 225 Lynx-Siddeley
engines, and capable of carrying eight pas-
sengers, are due to reach Sydney at the end
of October for the Sydney-Newcastle-Lis-
more-Brisbane service. Daily trips are con-
templated by Australian National Airways.
Walsh Island aerodrome, now in course of
construction, will be the Newcastle landing-
ground, and Lismore Council is spending
£2OOO on preparation of a ’drome. A regu-
lar service between Sydney and Melbourne
will follow. Ulm will supervise the organising.
* * !!=
“Sigs” : A fine array of bright tobacco-leaf,
grown in North Queensland, is being shown
in a Townsville window. The exhibits came
from Mareeba, Charters Towers, Chillagoe
and the Herbert, and there are samples
worked up into the finished article for
cigarette and pipe smokers. Not if North
Queensland can help it will Australia go on
sending three millions abroad every year
for tobacco-leaf.
* * * *
“Ex-Grocer” : Counterjumping has become
a mechanical business of handing made-up
packages from shelves. When it was a skilled
trade there used to be keen wrapping competi-
tions, sometimes between teams representing
rival shops. A standard test was to wrap one-
pound flat-packets or twist-cones of slippery
granulated sugar, rice or small sago, using
no string. I have known five a minute to be
done. Another test was the parcelling of a
child or a kitten. A child may be trained to
lie still, but to make a tidy parcel of the
average kitten is a job for an expert.
Country carriers charged a flat rate per
parcel, large or small, so that it was in custo-
mers’ interests to get everything into one
package. Mixed and mighty were the lots
that went forth, some including half a dozen
of bottled beer.
* * * *
“Cyanide”: An idea of what the month’s
open season in Queensland meant to the
’possum tribe can be gained from the ad-
mission of Walker, Minister for Agriculture,
that over 9000 permits were granted to
hunters by his department. The Government
puts forward the excuse that its action
helped many out-of-works to a cheque. Giv-
ing that in, it was only being generous at
the other expense; the o.f. in this
case being the ’possum.


WMm
\\
V/
W
\ s
- *. /?
YV
, \'
&
X’
&
//// ,
11 jfa'Y'*
h\, r m
I f /
m
v'V
%
i
r l(i 7;Xt
M
m
W\
Vi'
ib WMWV
\u
I'U
i
S§fe««kw«
ss \\ V '"
i
VH
K
©
w
0)
m
«8
“touch
PROPOSITIONS
Between your all-steel chassis and
the hard road come the rubber tyres —
the softest part of the car’s make-up,
and the part that has to take all the
grinding impact, too.
Make sure, therefore, of tough tyres
when buying. Secure information on
the subject before flints, friction and
nails get their argument in.
Start in with the fact that Perdriaus
are the only tyres offering easily-verified
data of toughening methods and toughness
tests during manufacture —remember
that every Perdriau Tyre is specifically
a Tough Proposition.
" The Toughest Tyre of all *’
Perd riau
Dunlop Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
Main Offices and Warehouse now situated at
27-33 WENTWORTH AVENUE, SYDNEY
Branches and Depots at all principal Centres ♦
*
o
*
A
*
o
w
Obtainable from your
Garage & Tyre Dealer.
The Triangle for Safety /


LEICHNEA
NtIOOI
■ v,:!'-:
*
4V ‘ j
m
iilili
f
: :
£
r
3
frr
3 iW
i
DOWN through the ages from ancient
Egypt, when irresistible Cleopatra
ruled the heart of a Roman Emperor,
the importance of figure slenderness has been
recognised. Women in modern times still
realise that slim figure loveliness is essential
to those who wish to retain the charm of youth.
Clever chemists, utilising the knowledge of
modern research, have formulated an
exquisitely perfumed slimming compound
known as Leichner Slim Figure and Beauty
Rath 1001. This preparation is merely added
to a warm bath, and brings about a reduction
of weight in an entirely harmless way.
Doctors have testified to a loss of as much as
31b. after a single treatment. Leichner 1 001
is remarkable in its rejuvenating effects. A
few immersions render the skin lilywhite
and tones it to youthful elasticity!
Try Leichner 1001 for yourself! If
unobtainable at your chemists, use the coupon
below. You’ll then experience the delight
that this world-famous process has brought to
thousands!
LEICHNER 1001
PRICE 4/-
A
//A
X
4^
%
% °o
%
v?,
IP
V **/<
L o>
\V\
V% O.
y c
%
Q
' a
V •%
A.
v
From your Chemist, Leading Stores or, post free 4/6,
from the Sole Australian Agents:—
LOHMANN & CO., LIMITED,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Postal Address: Box 804 G, G.F.0,, Sydney.


52 MacleaySt
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT, SYDNEY
(Located within the City Boundary, ten
minutes jrom G.P.0. )
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 160 rooms, is now open, and
features Single Rooms, Double
Rooms with Bath, and two-, three-
and four-room Suites with Bath.
Central Heating, Hot and Cold
Water, ’Phone and Bedside Lamp
in each room. Unsurpassed
Harbor views.
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines).
Telegraphic Address: “Fifmac,”
Sydney.
ust a Moment from Everywhere
The Wentworth—Australia’s most efficiently-managed hotel
—is handy to theatres, shops and banks —yet delight-
fully situated away from the noise and roar of the city.
Personally conducted by Mrs. H. Maclurcan, Governing
Director, it is the centre of all smart gatherings, and the
Mecca of visitors who appreciate comfort, convenience
and excellence in cuisine.
Wire or write your reservations.
Ohe
Church Hill
Sydney
It I
111
n
m
AUSTRALIA’S
m
HOTEL DE-LUXE
,On<JeS
/Royal
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Umltad
SYDNEY.
Champach*
Qiaileslleiduc^
Reims
To H.M.
Kin*
George V
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kaiser
SLIPPER
HEEL
SLLIC HOSIERY
Still another portrait of Professor Johnny
Hunter has been unveiled at the Uni., and,
in spite of a night torn to tatters by wind
and stabbed with rain bitter as sleet, the
Great Hall was crowded for the event.
Professor A. E. Mills was the principal in
this ceremony, and he spoke in a voice
charged with emotion. “Little did I dream
when this modest young man first entered
my class that soon I would be proud to sit
at his feet,” proclaimed the big-hearted,
generous professor. This portrait is by
Mclnnes, and the whole £11)0 for it was
subscribed by medical undergrads. The
portrait will hang in the Medical School; in
the laboratory still stand the chair and bench
:it which the subject of the painting worked.
Above them his name, John Irvine Hunter,
is written. The function surrounding this
unveiling Avas a conversazione in honor of
Sir Ewan Maclean.
Some of the women journalists of this
city have grown rather tired these last weeks.
Whenever a she-scribe has appeared on the
horizon she has been treated to a discourse
on either pre- or ante-natal care. It has been
tiie stock subject of discussion at women’s
clubs, luncheons and tea parties. Dame
Janet Campbell's arrival lias been the signal
for an absolute orgy of it. Old and young
welfare-workers, lay and medicated, make
after-lunch speeches that sound like excerpts
from “What Every Young Mother Ought to
Know." Visiting doctors from Melbourne
speak of it, visiting doctors from Maori-
land speak of it. Mr. Bruce is thanked for
bringing Dame Janet to Australia. And lo!
the poor press-woman, whose too-tutored mind
was gasping for a rest, fluttered into lunch
in the secluded cellar in which the Society
of Women Writers eat each week to find the
guests of the day were two charming and
clever women-doctors! Of course they made
speeches, and of course their subject was
expectant motherhood and care of the baby!
Thank Heaven we’l] have a change w T hen
Councillor Angela Booth’s arrival from Mel-
bourne brings on the question of V.D. and
its prevention. The conference on this sub-
ject, to last three days, was opened by the
Victorian enthusiast on Monday evening.
The Chief Civic Commissioner’s Avife bade
Dame Janet Campbell welcome to Sydney
in a bower of pink and Avhite azaleas and
pink and Avhite plum blossom. How delicious
it was, after being blown up the steps and
along draughty corridors, past the steel-cold
Efficiency Exhibition in the hall below, to
come on these bowls of laughing spring! Mrs.
John Garliek, in parchment laces warmed by
a black musquash coat, stood beside her chief
guest, who was very upstanding, lean and
English in cigar-brown crepe de Chines under
a tailored coat of broAvn tweed, collared and
cuffed in beaver. To these were adlded a
gold basket of pink and mauve stocks. The
rooms were croAvded, but above the murk of
dark top-coats and furs shone Dr. Elma
Sandford Morgan’s tricolor scarf and snug
little red Baku hat. Minister for Health
Arthur and Mrs. Arthur were present, the
little doctor in nothing approaching rational
dress for men.
To bridge-players seated in the great glass-
Avalled lounge of the Orama it must have
seemed as though they were sailing into a
magic sea of treetops and rounded green
hills, so. close was the ship to the Domain.
The Orient co. had lent its fine vessel to
the committee of the Day Nurseries, and
here, in this snug retreat, nearly 300 women
enjoyed themselves in the name of Charity.
They began early, too, and it was just as
Avell that the taw r ny marble table in the
centre of . the lounge had been decked Avitli
its jonquils, primroses and daffodils before
lunch, otherwise the decorative effect would
never have been achieved. Maybe decorations
don’t matter a hoot to a collection of bridge
fiends; nevertheless, when the tumult and
the stress had died, many Avomen bought
great masses of flowers. Professor Mac-
Callum’s lady, president of the money-raisers
and a keen worker in the cause of the day
nurseries, brought a party.
If you don’t go to “Lombardi, Ltd.,” for
anything else, go to have a regular orgy of
good clothes. Never has ItoAvena Ronald
looked more beautiful than in the play which
is now luring Sydney to the Criterion. Into
the second act she flows (she’s the man-
eater of the piece) in an ensemble of liquid
amber. The princess bodice, moulded to
the slim figure, swellh gradually to a skirt
formed of two flared frills, very full and
uneven, that finally drift away in two long
ends. The coat is a ravishing affair made
with a deep flared flounce. It has a stand-up
collar of yellow r fox, and its wide sleeves
are banded with the same fur. A green
lace frock in which she makes her first
appearance is full of light and motion and
grace. Its skirt is long at the back and
shows a transparent hem of chiffon in this
same stalk-seen-thro ugh-water green. A cape
swings from the shoulders.
,To. O’Keeffe, David Jones’s dress-artist,
who clothed the “Lombardi” principals, says
Natalie Moya’s three outfits are all fore-run-
ners of what we shall be wearing in the near
and not-quitc-so-near future. Natalie’s first
frock, when she is a poor but honest girl in
the employ of Tito Lombardi, is of soft black
satin whose moulded bodice and expanding
basque are very modern. The perfect tailored
suit clothes her second act (she is still a
mere wage slave). This is of beige char-
malaine, lightly soutached. Under the nifty
coat is worn an enviable cream satin shirt;
with this goes a beige and brown hat. But
oh, the luscious blue of the frock she dons
for the routing of the bank bailiffs in Act.
Ill!
Daphne Bairn (she’s the maiden all for-
lorn) staggers against misfortune in love
first in a bottle-green coat featuring the new
horse-collar of red fox. The frock and the
lining of this coat are in the same mellow,
rich autumnal shades. Wind-blown poppies,
spattered on chiffons of pale gold, and a
large hat turned off the face cover her when
she makes her vain appeal to the better
feelings of the stockbroker of her heart. An-
other smart moment is supplied by a black
and white frock, worn with red shoes, red
bag and white and black hat blooming with
red cherries.
Neutral Bay is feeling rather large-
headed about two of its young men. One
is Lyndon R. Dads well, a sculptor, just
21, who has been commissioned by the War
Memorial Committee of Victoria to do the
inner frieze of the Shrine of Remembrance.
This memorial will run away with £225,000,
and Mr. Dadswell’s work will consist of 12
panels illustrative of A.I.F. units. He is
a son of the Arthur Dadswells and a pupil
of Raynor Hoff. The other young thing
hatching into splendor is John Woods. For
sheer love of its work John joined up with
the T.O.Y. theatre, and was anything on
the tiny stage in Young-street from a bear
to a French chevalier. And presently lie had
an offer to tour with one of the Fuller com-
panies as juvenile lead with “The Family
Upstairs.” Now John is acting in Queens-
land, and getting press notices that would
make an Irving envious.
The typical Englishwoman in this picture,
which May Moore has made for us, is Dame
Janet Campbell, who has been loaned by
the English Government to the Common-
wealth for six months to advise us in mat-
ters concerning Maternal and Baby Welfare.
She is more than a great expert—she is also
a great enthusiast: her days are filled with
meeting, speaking to and conferring with
women’s organisations, and getting person-
ally acquainted with women’s hospital and
the slum parts of our cities. She is a modest
and judicial speaker, with a serene person-
ality, and, though so much in the limelight,
shrinks from publicity—this, for instance,
is the first studio picture of the lady taken
in Sydney.
At the Ambassadors the other evening the
National Association assured Premier Bavin
in resounding tones that He Is a Jolly Good
Fellow. Over 400 staunch supporters of the
party turned up, and when the Premier
arrived, fashionably late (but it was a Coun-
cil meeting detained him), there was joy in
the ship. Nancy Bavin, in flowery chiffons,
and the John Bavins were at the official
party, over which Mrs. R. T. Ball and Mrs.
F. A. Cliaffey presided.
Up the stone steps of the Central Police
Station walked this Letter on a warm after-
noon last week, and after traversing a cor-
ridor emerged into an asphalt yard that
was being hosed. Skipping across the wet
spots, it just dodged the back wheel of the
sombre police-patrol waggon, and reached the
room of Lilian Arinfield, Chief of the W omen
Police. For 14 years Miss Arinfield has
been in the service, and, whatever you
imagine a policewoman to be like, you can t
imagine one like Miss Armfiold. Her blue-
grey eyes are big and expressive, and her
nose is of that cleanly-cut aquiline beloved
of Norman Lindsay. She is of statuesque
mould, and confesses to nearly six feet in
height. Her costume, of course, was dark
blue, but her hat was of black velour, very
small and smart, while on her wrist was
the neatest little oblong of a platinum watch.
Not at all a terrifying person is Miss Arm-
field, who started life as a nurse. As she
tells you of the work that keeps her and
her little company of eight busy, you realise
that it is concerned more with social wel-
fare than with militant warfare against evil;
with prevention rather than cure. Who come
to that door behind Central? Mothers, looking
for daughters who have disappeared; victims
of criminal assaults, who whisper to under-
standing ears the shame of their experi-
ence ; women, mentally sick, who tell
of fancied persecutions; flappers, w r ho
want to see a bit of life. Miss Arm-
field, or her locum, shows the youngsters
through the eyes of experience the moral and
physical abysses yawning under the feet of
the young unguarded girl, and invariably
the girls at the end of that lecturette
vote for home and mother. Poverty, too,
finds its way. to this open door, and
bundles of clothing pass through to many
a needy woman ex-prisoner. Policewomen
help the detectives where an arrest of women
is about to take place. They search them,
watch them while they dress, if the arrest
has been made at night; all the while trained
nerve, nrascle and eye on the alert to see
that the prisoner does herself no injury.
Most of these guardians of the law are well
under HO, and at dances, chiffoned and satined
with the best, they can look the pretty
flapper type to perfection.
Part of their job is constant surveillance
of city dance places, wine-bars and the rail-
way station. Every long-distance train is
met by some unobtrusive young woman
with tlie eye of an eagle. Sometimes they
arrest a man. Most of the males go quietly,
and are not often ungallant enough to com-
plain of the manner of their capture. One
man, however, arrested by Miss Arinfield,
told the magistrate the morning after that
“she was a big strong woman and dragged
him along the street.” Yes, the life has
its humors and its compensations, the last
including heartfelt thanks, spoken and writ-
ten, from women put on the right road.
Many of them express their gratitude in
gifts of flowers. But the bowls of arum-
lilies on the highly-polished desks in both
rooms, breaking in beauty against the back-
ground of the walls clothed in their glum
Government paint, were from an admirer of
a different sort, and if you saw as much
of the policewoman as the two extensive
and very excellent mirrors on the mantel-
pieces you wouldn’t wonder at it.
Susan Joyce Glasson, youngest daughter
of the John Glassons, of Blayney and Rose
Ray, chose a cold, wet afternoon of last
week for crossing over into matrimony. St.
Mark’s, at Darling Point, blessed the trans-
fer when she became the wife of Ronald R.
McKay, of Leadville. In wallflower tones
of lace frocking and millinery, the bride
looked very attractive, and was supported by
Edizell McKay, while the bridegroom had
Keith Glasson to cheer him on. Congratu-
lations followed at the John Glassons’ Rose
Bay home, Colstoun.
Cyde An till de Warren became Mrs. John
Warren Binney within St. Mary’s, at North
Sydney, last week. White satin, Limerick
lace and pearls shimmered in the bride’s
raiment, while sister Rose de Warren
’maided in spring-gold, frock, hat and
bouquet shining with the hue of the daffodil.
Major-General Antil] gave the bride away,
and sister Mrs. Neville Morrisby, of Texas
(Q.), hostessed the reception in the new
ballroom of the Carlton, Manly. The John
Warren Binneys will set up their home at
Vaucluse, where the ’groom’s father, the late
Dr. E. H. Binney, and his mother made their
home for years. The bride is a daughter of
the late Mr. and Mrs. de Warren, of Bris-
bane.
St. John’s, in Darlingliurst, held a packed
audience for the wedding of Dorothea
(Woodgee) Mackay and Oscar John Peters,
and Canon Langley stage-mqnaged the
ceremony. The bride was in an ivory-chiffon
frock, with mediaeval bodice and flowing-
skirt, the hem an uneven filigree of lace and
gold beads. A snowdrift of train pierced by
gold daffodil heads was guarded by Kitty
Mackay and Audrey Peters in gold-lace
frocks topped by gold-tissue bridge-coats:
their arm-bearers were Dr. Geoffrey Maitland
and John Fagon. At the Ambassadors the
bride’s mother, Mrs. Charles Mackay, stood
up to the spotlight in Venetian-red georg-
ettes. The ’groom is a son of well-known
Thomas Peters, of Ashfield.
Willowy Cora Mae Callear, misted in tulle
and wearing white satins fashioned on thir-
teenth-century lines, was handed by knight
Henry Braddon to the altar of St Stephen’s
on Saturday evening. The bride is one of
America’s fair daughters. Following her
were Neville Scott, daughter of the Suva
knight, and Doreen Armstrong, whose father
is a Fijian district commissioner. From the
bandeaux of flat camellias in their heir to
the fantail hemline of their beige and cerise
taffetas, the two ’maids were the last w’ord
in sophisticated artlessness. The ’groom was
Lieut. William Thornton-Watson. Geoffrey
Braddon best-manned, and the cake was Cut
at the Wentworth.
Fair-haired Gwen Chessman, daughter of
the H. P. Chessmans, of Rose Bay. is
among the week’s diamond collectors. Ivor
Sargent, son of the late lamented Hartley
of the good old pie-sliop' firm,, was the
lucky young man who, placed the ring in
position.
Besides the fashionable semi-long shingle
Marjory Dillon, the girl in this picture,
has innumer-
able medals
and diplomas
and certificates
(including
Trinity Col-
lege honors),
and the jun-
ior champion-
ship of the
Ballarat com-
petitions
(1925). She
will challenge
all comers to
dispute her
supremacy in
the art of
entertaining by
elocution,
m o n o 1 o gues
and singing, in
the Con. Hall,
on Saturday
the 28th. The
clever youngster, who is only 16, is a pupil
of Lawrence Campbell.
Pretty Kathleen Pye, of Darling Point,
is busy digging herself into her home circle
after nearly two years in London. Her
engagement to a young French lawyer was
recorded in these pages some months ago,
and now the early arrival of her betrothed
is expected. Incidentally, they first, met in
the Paris home of Consul-General Nette-
ment’s sister.
Lallah Mockbell, the pretty wide-eyed
dancing daughter of Sydney’s well-known
cafe proprietor, has become engaged to
Reggie Bartle, of Katoomba.
Sarah Hynes is happy these days. The
memorial portrait of her friend Mrs. Ellis
Rowan, just finished by John Longstaff, is.
she declares, a masterpiece. It was painted
from a photograph in Miss Hynes’s posses-
sion and from John’s own memories. Knight
William Cullen is to unveil it in Sydney, and
it is hoped that then the Federal authorities
will take the 952 paintings of Australian
and Papuan flora out of portfolios in Mel-
bourne and hang them with the portrait at
Canberra. Friendship is no idle word with
Sarah Hynes. It was she who worked up
first the idea of securing the collection and
then the memorial portrait.
At the Ambassadors one night last week,
Mr. Pickwick and little Dora were at home
to members of the Pickwick Rook Club and
their friends. The dance, which was to aid
the Institution for Deaf and Dumb and
Blind at Darlington, had been organised by
Dorise Hill, who wore her honors and prim-
rose tulles with great success. Bert Lus-
combe, as Mr. Pickwick, and Mamie Harries,
as Dora, created atmosphere at the entrance
to the ballroom, and Ben Fuller’s lady and
het party of (55 nicely filled the Empire
Room.
Still another success was achieved last
week by the untiring committee which works
all through every year for the Mater hos-
pital. Over 300" danced at the annual ball
at the Ambassadors, and, as usual, Mrs. F.
Leahy was the capable president.
An important happening of the week-end
was the opening of the Mary McGarvey
Home for Girls, at Carlingford. This replaces
the old C. of E. Home at Glebe Point, and
is named after thei matron who for 30
splendid years has directed the good work.
There is sorrow among the sightless oyer
the untimely death of Mr. A. E. Phillips,
managing director of Moses Moss and Co.,
which is responsible for those attractive
Wolfe’s Schnapps advertisements in The
Bulletin. For 14 of his 50 years Mr.
Phillips had been lion, secretary of the
Industrial Blind Institution. An Old Boy
of Sydney Grammar, he had wide sporting
interests, being a member of the A.J.C.. the
Royal Sydney and Prince Alfred Yacht
Clubs, the Automobile Club and the Rose
Bay bowlers.


DELICIOUS FLAVOUR
r
C
\<M
iiii
tP
m
Co
Ik
w
REX QUALITY AUSTRALIAN
r— ■
m
ef
iie!
ID
N
■
I* ¥
mmm
■ n
f c=o
A soup delicious to the taste
and full of goodness
When you lift this refreshing, wholesome soup to your
lips, you find all the splendid quality for which REX Pure
Foods are famous, and all the delicious flavor and
goodness of pea soup par excellence.
You enjoy it thoroughly. How easy, too, for the
housewife—delicious soup ready at any time, simply
prepared according to the easy directions on the label.
REX Pea Soup, and four other kinds of soup —Rex
Consomme, Rex Vegetable, Rex Ox Tail, Rex Mulliga-
tawny —are the latest addition to the long list of choice
REX Pure Foods, made in Australia, by Australians, for
Australians.
In lib. and \ lb. cans.
REX PEA SOUP
•'| ' ' '
To be certain that you get the Australian Soup with the fine flavor and quality, always say REX.
FOGG ITT JONES PTY. LTD.
(Division of United Provisions Ltd.)
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon.


ẁ
To
enhance
ijour beauty
TJEAUTY of face is best
framed in a wealth of
charming hair. Make the most oi your
hair as a background for your beauty by
using Rowland’s Macassar Oil twice a day.
Ccmb the oil welJ into your hair, when it
will show the gloss of health, and weak
and falling hair will be a thing of the past.
0f all Chemists Stores and Hair-
dressers. Red
for dark hair.
Golden for fair
nr area hair.
ẃ
, Rowland’s
Maca§§arOll
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.1.,
ENGLAND.
'* C*u. A
•d A***"
pENGER'Sg
® FOOD ®
* ,nf ants. Invalids, and
Booklet post free' from BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
for
Infants
Invalids
and
the Aged
Food
Reed. Trade Mark
U *THETrtl^
Chosen by prominent stage
folk, public speakers and
singers.
They protect the throat and
keep the voice clear.
‘Allenbunys’
Black Currant PASTILLES
Your Chemist stocks them.
PARADISE PLUMES
BY GILBERT MUNRO TURNBULL
J) II l~r^fior\y by O
Synopsis : Returning to Papua from
Sydney, Stephen Blake, District Magis-
trate, is warmly attracted to Lesley
Rowan, fiancee of Harry Merton, a
planter of Akupaka Bay, the district
in which Blake’s out-station lies. Blake
docs not disillusion her over her future
husband, hut cheers her by telling her
of Tod Lorimer, a rich planter, who
has a half-caste daughter, Moira; Jim
Glover, Assistant-Resident Magistrate,
and others. Lesley marries Merton
( who has banished his native mistress,
Loana, and their son), and goes to
his plantation, where she sees the
brutal side of his character when he
strikes Sam Turner, a dipsomaniac and
local identity. Loana interviews
Blake, but, though it shames him to
do so, he coerces her into putting Mer-
ton out of her mind, On a visit of
inspection to Akupaka, Blake is told
that ghosts in the shape of humans are
going to make one of their flits through
the village, but his threat to instal an
armed guard prevents the visitation.
He is mystified, and the feeling is in-
creased when, visiting Laubogi, Mer-
ton’s plantation, he becomes suspicious
that Merton knows something of the
“ ghosts.” Lesley, seeing a bird-of ■>
paradise, regrets That such lovely crea-
tures should be shot, and Blake re-
torts that any such shooting is done
outside the law. Merton changes the
subject sharply; and that night, after
Blake has gone, Lesley burns a large
bundle of the plumes. The smell of
their burning wakens Merton with a
start.
CHAPTER XV.
The Sins of the Fathers.
THERE was a cheerful rattling of pots
in Tod Lorimer’s kitchen. Tod, a
white apron round his waist and a
chefs cap upon his head, was watching his
head-boy as he basted a roasting turkey.
“Easy, Jamtin, easy now!” he cautioned
from time to time. “Y’ ain’t pourin’ kero-
sene into a ’urricane lamp!”
The boy pursed his thick lips and fol-
lowed his master’s injunctions as if he were
performing a solemn rite. Later on in his
career harassed white women at Port
Moresby would quarrel over Jamtin. The
fact that he had been trained by old Tod
Lorimer would throw open an entirely new
world to Jamtin; it would be his passport
into the pantries of the rich, an open
: sesame to the kitchens of the great. For
Tod Lorimer could choose a dinner; and
he could cook it and serve it. Under his
transmuting touch tinned “bullumacow”
blushed for its label; soapy taro, stringy
sweet potatoes, soggy yams became white
man’s food diffusing delectable odors; bush
pig looked, tasted and smelled like pork;
and his fruit salads had been paragraphed
in The Bulletin.
Sounds drifted through the windows
standing open to the breeze; the thud of
an axe and the grunts of its wielder as he
sweated over the woodheap, the voices of
the weeding gang calling to one another
in the plantation clearing, the squawk of
cockatoos, varied insect notes.
To-day he was making his preparations
with especial care. Lesley Merton was to be
his guest of honor to-night. He had never
before entertained a sinabada at his hospit-
able board.
He stood at the table breaking scrub-
hen eggs into a basin. The deft hands
ceased their movement suddenly. The mild
eyes were gazing at Moira swinging in her
hammock under the betel-palms.
Tod’s lips parted in a startled gasp.
“Moira 1” he called out. “Wot yer doin’,
girl?” There was a note of profound pain
in his voice.
Moira gave a guilty start and something
fell from her hand to the ground.
Lorimer dashed out of the kitchen and
the next moment was by his daughter’s side.
“Why d’ yer do it, Moira?” he demanded
bitterly. “'’Aven’t y’ got no pride, no respec’
for y’self? Why d’ yer give way to that
filthy ’abit?”
There was a smear of crimson on the
girl’s lips, and on the ground lay a lime-
gourd and the remains of a split betel-nut.
Lorimer crushed the gourd like an egg-
shell beneath his heel.
“By God, Moira!” he stammered. “I’ll—
I’ll”—-
The girl’s eyes flashed fire. She pouted
mutinously.
“I am half-native —who cares what I do?”
she pouted.
Tod Lorimer choked. All the anger had
gone out of his voice when he answered
her.
“Yer daddy cares, Moira. You re alf
white, too, lass.”
He took her in his arms hungrily. A sob
strangled in her throat, and he solaced her,
reassured her.
He went back to the kitchen, but the
zest for entertaining his guests had departed
for Tod Lorimer.
Moira’s lapses hurt him, bewildered him,
frightened him. He had spared neither pains
nor money on her upbringing. The best
education the good sisters at Tule Island
could give her had been hers. She had not
been permitted to learn her mother’s tongue,
and in her intercourse with natives he had
forbidden her to parade the little Motuan
she knew. In a vague sort of way he had
imagined that in time that side of his
daughter which was native would be sub-
merged entirely by her white blood; but
it was being brought home to him day
by day that this was not to be. Half white,
half brown she was. The qualities of both
her parents were fighting a silent duel within
,her. And her native blood was winning.
Were all his cherished plans for her to
fail completely? Were all his hopes for his
daughter destined never to be fulfilled?
The qualities he had zealously striven
to cultivate in her were alien qualities;
the restrictions he had imposed upon her
served only to irk her. He had attempted
to train her for the drawing-room, but at
heart she was a child of the fierce, primeval
jungle—untamed afnd untamable. This’
betel habit was, he knew, but one of the
many signs of Moira’s revolt. There
were others, clearly apparent even to his
fond eyes; signs he had tried desperately to
ignore; signs that shocked him, that affected
him with a secret, horrible fear.
“The sins of the fathers!” he muttered
shakily. God, what a paradise for fools
he had been living in!
* :!■• * *
Blake and his two assistants arrived early,
Glover and Jenkins were in high spirits, but
there was an unusual gravity on Blake’s
face. Offshore the station whaleboat rode
at anchor, the boat’s crew, under Corporal
Konigi, having already made themselves
thoroughly at home in Tod Lorimer’s com-
pound.
Lesley and her husband came in the
scented quietude of the tropic dusk. Lesley
looked pale and troubled, Blake thought.
It was as if she were beset by a hidden
fear. Merton, however, had the air of a
man entirely at ease with a smiling woild.
Tod Lorimer hastened forward to greet
them. Moira stood by his side. Her old-
ivory tinted face was stained a deeper shade
and. her eyes were fixed wonderingly on the
face of Merton’s wife.
“How do you do. Mrs. Merton?” she
said shylv. She looked fleetingly at Merton,
smiled, nodded, then went within the
dining-room.
The touch of Lesley’s hand chilled Blake.
He held it a moment in would-be reassur-
ance, greeting her with grave courtesy.
Lesley’s face lit up in a wan smile.
“Greetings, Blake!” Merton cried bois-
terously. “How are your giddy old spooks ?
Blake laughed, saying nothing. He was
aware that his host was looking at him
questioningly, and of a faintly puzzled
expression on Jimmy Glover’s open face.
“What’s the joke, R.M.?” he inquired.
Merton winked at him broadly.
“Just a joke, Jimmy,” Blake answered.
His voice was quite toneless. Glover sensed
that the subject was distasteful, and so he
did not pursue it. ' .
A gramophone was playing soft music.
The verandah was broad and long, and
the polished hardwood floor glistened in-
vitingly. . .
Jenkins had an inspiration.
“We’ll dance,” he exclaimed. He moved
a few obstructing cane chairs and tables to
one side. , T 1
“I say, Miss Moira!” he called out: What
do you say to a one-step?”
“Thank you, Mister Jenkins, she
answered. “This dancing I do not under-
stand.” .
Tod Lorimer beamed. He felt that he
was going to like Mr. Patrol-officer Jenkins.
Dinner was a jolly meal. There were
shaded lights on the polished table; flowers
in shallow bowls, snowy napery. Blake
threw off his preoccupation. Lesley’s air
of wistful detachment slowly evaporated
under Jenkins’s airy badinage.
To Lesley, Moira Lorimer alone seemed
to be out of the jolly circle. She was
acutely conscious of a deep pity; found
herself hotly resenting the lofty detachment
of these white men. She spoke encourag-
ingly to the girl; but Moira did not respond
to her advances with any signs of enthu-
siasm. She pressed Jenkins’s foot, and he,
understanding in a flash, made an effort
to include Moira in the general conversa-
tion. . . ■
“After dinner, Miss Moira, he said, will
you permit me to show you the fox-trot?”
Moira looked so astonished that her whole
face was transformed. Her mouth quivered,
and a laugh escaped her. To Lesley her
mirth seemed forced, her laugh sounded
hard; it lacked frankness, restraint. A
sudden wave of pity for the girl swept over
Lesley Merton. She was still glancing
shyly at Blake.
Jenkins felt himself turning pink, and he
seized his wineglass to cover his embarrass-
ment. It seemed to him that his desire to
be “pally” had not been reciprocated; that
somehow he had made a bad break. Moira
moved restlessly in her chair; her head
was bent low over her plate as if there
was something in her eyes she did not wish
the others to see.
The houseboys intervened with another
course. Jenkins gave it his undivided
attention.
Later they adjourned to the verandah.
Merton suggested bridge. They cut for
partners, and Lesley and Blake stood out.
The others withdrew to a remote corner
of the verandah, and were soon absorbed.
Lesley relaxed into a softly-cushioned
lounge. Blake made himself comfortable
at the head of the steps. He looked at
her deliberately. There was an anxious light
in her beautiful eyes; a certain restlessness
a nervousness about her manner. 1 here was
no doubt about his first impression. The
last two weeks had wrought a subtle change
in Lesley Merton.
From the compound came the low beat
of drums. The police-crew and Lorimer s
laborers were making a new song, glorify-
ing the strength of their bodies, defying
the machinations of the nether world.
The , bungalow boasted a music-room,
separated from the verandah by a wide,
arched opening. Moira Lorimer sat at the
piano, her fingers passing idly over the
keys. , T , . , .
“What is it, Stephen,” Lesley said m a
low voice, “that makes men here so hard,
so bitter, so intolerant?” She leaned over
towards him. The fragrance of her acted
upon him like a drug. A pulse pounded m
his temples. He was tempted to say un-
utterably foolish things to Merton’s wife,
this giri who had so amazingly subverted
his whole outlook ypon life.
“I’m afraid I don’t follow you, he
answered. “I”
“The attitude of you men towards Moira
Lorimer, Stephen, for one thing.” Lesleys
voice was tense. She was terribly in earnest.
“It is shameful, Stephen, shameful!”
Blake glanced at her in quick surprise,
then turned away uneasily.
“I think you are right,” he replied sur-
prisedly. “I agree with you entirely; all
sensible l people must agree with you; but
—he. shrugged his shoulders in a gesture
of helplessness—“you don’t understand, dear
lady.” ■ .
Lesley laughed. “I think I am tired,
Stephen, of being told always that I do not
understand.” .
The girl at the piano was playing an air
from a light opera. She was playing it
well, with feeling, and instinctively they
sat silent, listening.
Suddenly the music took on a new note
Blake stiffened. Lesley saw the look of
interest on his face replaced by one ot
wonder —wonder that changed as she
watched to repugnance.
“Good God!” he gasped.
Lesley rose quickly and tiptoed across
the verandah. Blake followed on her heels.
Moira was half-crouched over the keys
crashing out a wild, barbaric air. Her
body moved to and fro, sinuously, sensu-
ously, keeping time to the savage rhythm.
“God in Heaven!” Blake’s voice was
unspeakably shocked. “She’s set the old-
time war dance of the Akupaka head-
hunters to music!”
For a long half-minute Lesley clung to
Blake, her face blanched by fear and horror.
The lips of the girl were parted in a
mirthless smile. She was unconscious of her
horror-stricken audience, oblivious to
everything save the appalling diapason of
sound. The whole room seemed to shudder
with the hateful music; it shrieked of
battle, murder and sudden death, night
forays and the taking of heads, swift
onslaught, frenzied defence, the clash of
spears and the clamor of tribal war. And
beneath it was a throbbing undernote that
spoke of jungle lust; fierce, primal passion.
With shaking knees Lesley edged her
way into the room. Swiftly she flung her
arms round Moira’s shoulders.
“My dear!” she choked. “Stop, child!
This instant!”
The music ceased. Moira’s hands dropped
to her sides, her eyes stared unseeingly at
Lesley. Then, with a quick, convulsive
movement, she covered her face with her
hands, sobbing incoherent words, and Lesley
saw tears trickling between the fingers.
“My dear!” Lesley soothed her tenderly.
“Don’t cry, Moira. We are here —your
friends, Moira.”
Moved by a sudden impulse she drew
the girl to her as a sister would, and bent
down and kissed her. Blake’s face soft-
ened. The look that transfigured Moira
Lorimer’s face haunted them both long
afterwards. There came the sound of
(Continued on page 51.)


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folrler
11!
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
contains everything that women
should know—from kitchen to
drawing-room, from cradle to
old age. It is the most remark-
able threepenny - worth ever
printed.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
.3d.
Monday to Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. 'Minimum Charge, 10/-
Saturday, Late Night.
Special Table d'HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 12/6; or
a la carte, minimum, 12/6
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 6.30, 6/*
The Ambassadors New Delightful
Dance Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing aa
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Phone: M 413
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckler's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
[?]
The Alliance Franqaise Hall last week
served as a greeting to the captain and
officers of the Tourville. As the guests
numbered only about 800 and the Town
Hall is a vast ballroom, the organisers
showed wisdom in making the hop a cabaret
affair, with the supper tables arranged all
round the waus. The band played amid a
grove of tree-ferns and gum-trees, and
struggled manfully against habit to avoid
making a syncopated foxtrot of the Mar-
seillaise on the arrival of French Consul
Rene Turck and the official guests, who had
been dined at the Consul’s South Yarra
flat. The president of the Alliance, Rene
Vanderkelen, his wife, in lemon yellow georg-
ette sparkling and dipping of line; the
secretary, Madame Cockerton; and treasurer
G. A. Watson gave welcome. Besides the
French naval officers, guests of honor in-
cluded Commodore and Mrs. J. B. Stevenson,
she in black lace; Mrs. V. Scriven, in deep
blue lace; and Roma Smith, wearing a
flounced frock of russet-red satin. Madame
Turck was sheathed in burnished gold lace,
and Ninette sported a sequined Apache hand-
kerchief about the shoulders of a white
tulle gown. Lud Mayor Luxton brought his
niece, Phyllis Clarke, clad in pale green;
and Jessie, daughter of Premier McPherson,
danced in ivory taffeta. Sheila Morell chose
cornflower-blue georgette with a wavy hem-
line. TJ.S.A. Consul Garrels was accom-
panied by his life-partner smartly attired in
black. Among the Consular representatives
was Senor de Pujadas, of Spain. Vera de
Bavay suggested a Columbine in her roseate
tulle frock with its billowy skirt, her pink
satin shoes having silver heels. Marjorie
lvimpton’s black velvet gown featured a
deeply-cut V back; and Elizabeth Moran’s
wine-colored chiffon frock had attached pieces
and an unevenly-terminated skirt. Chris
Mackay Sim struck another sort of note in
a lengthy gown of white satin.
Silver ships with armaments of blossoms
and flying the tricolor decorated the tables
at the Windsor when some of the French
community invited Captain Abrial and his
officers to dinner as a prelude to a dance at
Bibran’s. The Cousul for France, Rene
Turck, was host, aided by his wife, in amber
chiffon, and daughter Ninette, in sparkling
black. Among the guests was the Belgian
Consul, Rene Vanderkelen.
Captain Abrial and senior officers of the
Tourville were entertained at dinner and
an after-reception at the home of Dr. and
Mrs. Crevilli at Albert Park. The hostess
wore black velvet and lace, and the filmy
draperies of her daughter-in-law, Mrs. Rene
Crivelli, were also black. Madame McArden
sang, her flaxen locks surmounting a scin-
tillating japonica-pink gown.
The French cruiser Tourville weighed
anchor on Thursday and sped westward
on her way back to France via Fre-
mantle and Java. Many climbed the gang-
way from Prince’s Pier the previous after-
noon at the bidding of the commander and
officers to share a parting cup of the four
o’clock brew, which was supplemented by
champagne. There wasn’t much formality,
and there was dancing on a deck which
wasn’t, but which looked as if it had been,
made for that purpose. Cap ribands stamped
with the ship’s name in gold were handed
round as mementoes. Lieut.-Governor Irvine
came aboard with his A.D.C., Captain R. T. A.
Macdonald. The Rene Turcks and their
daughter, and the Consul for Belgium, Rene
Vanderkelen, and his wife, Col. and Mrs. W.
Cass, the ,T. B. Stevensons, and Education
Minister Cohen and Mrs. Cohen were guests.
Sunshine tempered a cool wind, and it was
quite snug aboard ship, where festoons of
gaily-hued lights illumined the interior,
and flags supplied more color. Frocking was
on late-winter lines, and only here and there
was the die-hard felt hat supplemented by
the fine canvas-like straws of the new season.
Running at the same time as the Royal
Agricultural Show, which opens to-morrow,
will be a demonstration of Australian manu-
facturing resources at the Exhibition Build-
ings, organised by F. L. W. Ashby, secretary
of the Chamber of Manufactures. This
show, which opened on Saturday, looks as
if it must be very nearly completely repre-
sentative of what is being turned out by the
artisans of the Commonwealth. It is no
mere collection of samples, for there are
many working exhibits. The wool industry,
for instance, is shown in every stage from
the shearing of the sheep to the making of
garments. You may learn how aeroplanes
are put together, or taste biscuits hot from
the oven. The processes that made your felt
hat may be traced, and you can peer into
the mysteries of umbrella-making and the
production of matches. Of especial interest to
women is the stall devoted to Madame Weigel’s
paper patterns, which have been stamped and
cut out in this State for 50 years or so.
The latest in household electrical applances,
furniture of our own lovely timbers and
materials for decorative dwelling construction
also figure in the exhibition, and, of course,
the radio and the cinema, silent and talkative,
have their sections. Out on the oval are
side-shows, where the earnest student of
technology may find relaxation.
The old order changeth, and with it such
institutions as the Victoria Markets. Last
week Lud Mayor Luxton said “Open,
Sesame,” or words to that effect, to the doors
of the lately-finished dairy-produce building,
an airy, glass-roofed pavilion of red-and-white
brick which cost £28,000. There are 48
marble-fronted shops, divided up between
grocers, poulterers, pastrycooks and one
chemist. Everything is in keeping with the
general atmosphere of spick-and-span cleanli-
ness. Salesmen are all in white, and nice
sale-ladies, who call each other Miss, are
arrayed in white linen with spotless Dutch
caps. Some of the butchers and rabbit-ohs
from the adjoining area crowded in to hear
the speech-makings, and in near-by shelters,
flower, fruit and fish merchants shouted their
wares. There was such a din that the
Mayor’s eloquence was mostly wasted.
Memory went back to earlier days when
barrows were pushed into an immense build-
ing and signs above bid you to buy from
the chip-potato king, the fried-fish king, the
clothing king, or some other self-crowned
sovereign. The kings have gone, and the
tumult and the shouting of their successors
will probably die, for the City Council, not
content with its latest achievement, means to
remodel and civilise the whole of the markets
in time. After the opening there was a
gathering in the Mayoress’s suite at the
Town Hall, the hostess wearing a black
ensemble with collar of kolinsky fur and a
close-fitting black felt hat. The Mayor and
sundry other of the city fathers toyed with
teacups, and in the throng were the House-
wives’ president, Mrs. Percy Russell, the
Misses Reay and Mrs. Mayer.
At the Berlei revue “Lady Be Beautiful,”
presented for a week of crowded matinees at
His Majesty’s, thousands of women discov-
ered that the key to comeliness lies in know-
ing the particular figure type to which they
belong, and applying the corsets, controlettes
and brassieres prescribed for that type by
Berlei. whose wares are made in Australia.
The firm’s various aids to loveliness were
shown, in gorgeous stage settings, with a
trimming of dance, dialogue and song.
Mannequins of all shapes and sizes, from
the immaturity of childhood to the ample
curves of middle age, showed the effect of
supports in satins, brocades and watered silk,
sometimes mingled with . lace. Tailored
underclothing of laddalac, a silken fabric,
whose name means that it is guaranteed not
to ladder, figured in the show.
Behold
Sheila Buchan,
a much-travel-
led girl who
has found a
life-p artner
overseas, the
change of
name being
effected in
London on
Saturday. The
happy man is
Lieut. George
Chest erman
Phillips, R.N.
Mrs. John
Buchan, of
Kew, handed
her daughter
over, and there
we r e after-
rejoicings a t
the Hyde Park
Hotel. Ruskin
made the portrait.
The pretty little Ormond Hall was occu-
pied on Friday night by a military force,
when the commander and officers of the
Third Division were hosts of the Army hop of
the year. The magpie colors of the division
mingled in the decorative scheme with other
regimental hues. General Elliott and Mrs.
Elliott, she in black chiffon embossed in
autumn tints, greeted the guests. Debutantes
of the evening were Violet Elliott, in fluffy
white chiffon; Alice Campbell, in white lace
and georgette; Dora Lush, who chose a pale
green frock; and Meg Murphy, whose lilac
shot-taffeta gown was of bouffant cut.
The Mitchell lady on Friday afternoon
unleashed a fete held in the pleasant grounds
of Lovell House, Caulfield, which is a hostel
for governesses. Mrs. Seton Williams, vice-
president of the committee, announced that
proceeds of the afternoon would go towards
providing more accommodation.
The club-house at the Ivooyong tennis
courts was dolled up with great jars of
Japanese may and crimson fruit blossom
for a members’ dance on Saturday night.
Mrs. George Cook and Helen Sage were
responsible for the decorations. Frocks with
matching bridge-coats were much favored.
A well-dressed miss sported over her lettuce-
green confection a jacket of gleaming rhine-
stones. The slim lines of Connie Woods
were accentuated by uneven draperies of
apple-green georgette, and Lalla AVhite had
lines of crystal on a lime-hued frock.
Bow'lers claim that their game is the
most sociable of all field pastimes, and they
seem to be justified, for it’s difficult to dis-
cover one that packs more players into a
given area. Possibly it is this chumminess
that is winning so many women adherents.
However, that may be, Kitty’s devotees had
a very fine day for it on Saturday, when
many city and suburban clubs opened their
season. Knight William Brunton, president of
the Bowling Association had a busy time
visiting various greens to run up pennants.
At the Fitzroy green he hoisted the B pen-
nant, won by the club last year. The Fitzroy,
which is one of the oldest bowling clubs in
Melbourne, has so far refused to admit
women members. President Peter Lucini
made the opening speech and Mrs. Lucini
and her daughter Amy trundled the first
bowls.
Thelma St. John George, pictured here
by Lafayetce,
qualified as a
kinderga r t e n
instructor at
the Training
College here,
and then went
to London and
secured the
diploma of the
Dalcrozt
School. She
and one other
lady are the
only certified
teachers of
eurhythmies in
Mol bourne.
Miss George
has joined the
staff of Eileen
O’Keefe’s just-
esta b 1 i s h e d
school of
speech-craft.
Wearing ivory taffeta flounced and
hemmed with net, a tulle veil and orange-
buds, Marjorie, eldest daughter of the W. M.
Shannons, of Kew, exchanged vows last
week with George Paul (usually Bob),
eldest son of the Paul Wischers, of the same
subbub. Two ’maids wore gros-grain frocks
which mingled the hues of a Turner sunset,
topped by blue felt hats. A hundred guests
assembled afterwards at No. 9.
Marjorie, younger daughter of the Walter
Hoadleys, was handed over to the safe
keeping of Dr. Frank Conrad Ross, of Sed-
don, last week. White taffeta and tulle made
in mode bouffant was the bridal array, two
attendants in pink frocks and tulle hats
completing the picture.
St. George’s, Hanover-square, London’s
swankiest, church , for weddings, saw the
knot-tying of Joan Lempriere and O. R-
Segrave. The bride, a daughter of the Oscar
Lemprieres, of Spring-fields squattage, wore
deep irory satin and Limerick lace, her
six ’maids being clad in pink chiffon, with
felt millinery and posies of the same
shade. The bridegroom is a brother of Sir
Henry Segrave, the motor speed-king.
Mollie Nicol’s young friends are feeling
rather peeved at her sudden plunge into
marriage in far-away Perth. On a visit to
see her fiance, Lieut. Esmond Cerieser,
stationed there, the event was hastily decided
on, and Mrs. Nicol had to rush across to
be in time to give away her only girl at a
ceremony shorn of frills. The bridegroom,
one of eight brothers, comes from Warwick
in Queensland, and is the tallest student to
pass through Duntroon, standing 76 inches
in his socks. The young couple, at present
nesting in a flat in the western city, will
later move to India, where the bridegroom’s
military education will be continued.
A large party laden with parcels re-
sponded to Ruth Newman’s invitations to
a linen tea, spread at her Geelong home, to
assist Audrey Collins with her furnishings.
A guessing competition kept the company
busy, May McGregor solving the problem
and winning a prize. Later on, Gladys
Speed boiled the kettle for a china tea, with
bridge as an attraction, Mrs. A. M. Col-
lins and Cynthia Walker being the lucky
competitors.
At the Alliance Frangaise Ball last week
Liliane Gay received congratulations upon
her engagement to Kenneth Stewart. The
good-looking miss, who wore black chiffon
splashed with pastel-pink and mauve roses,
has but little time for trousseau-gathering,
as the wedding day is fixed for early next
month. The man of her choice is the only
son of the Dick Stewarts, of Sydney, and a
nephew of our own Sweet Nell.
The afternoon fete and dance at Kurneh
the South Yarra residence of Mr and Mrs’
Norman Brookes, brought £l6OO to * the
coffers of Victoria Hospital. Mrs., Brookes,
as president, formally handed the splendid
donation to the treasurer last week.
Education Minister Cohen launched
painter I )ick McCann’s show of landscapes
at the Athenaeum. First viewers included
the Rutledge lady, Mrs. George Swinburne
and a crop of artists.
The modern girl, if she feels in need of
any defence of her powdering and lip-paint-
ing ways, can claim time-honored and even
biblical precedent. Leonard Woolley has
a Q u f en ’ s toilet set among the ruins
of that once'-great city Ur of the Chaldees,
ine set includes an elaborate vanity-case
containing colors for touching up cheeks
UPS and eyebrows, and powder for finishing
?“• Evidence isn’t wanting to show that
this habit was as popular then as it is to-
day- Ur was Abraham’s native city, and
Sarah, his wife, became a convert to beauty
aids when she saw her patriarch admiring
the attractions of other women, for it has
come to light that he filled her tomb with
a goodly supply of cosmetics.
The suitability or otherwise of girl
migrants from the Old Dart provides a kt
°t.food for discussion. Now an expert is
going abroad to do some selecting. She is
Miss L. A. Forster, the organising secretary
of the New Settlers’ League. A passage has
been reserved for a November sailing, and
after a careful scrutiny of applicants she
will sail back with a batch of picked girls
under her wing.
Mrs. George Hamilton Dougharty, of
Cadzow, East Melbeurne, passed away last
week at a ripe age. She was the eldest
daughter of the late F. M. Innes, who was
Premier of the Speck in its early days. The
Innes family is widely spread throughout the
States, and of late Mrs. Dougharty was the
central figure in the Innes and Doughartv
clans. Her eldest brother, the late F. M.
Innes, was an inspector in the Union Bank,
and her daughters are well known in Uni.
circles here. Two sons went to the war and
only one returned.
Though, as has lately been suggested by
a visiting scientist, potted meat-juice may
not be quite as nutritious as Liebig claimed,
there’s big money in potting it, as Lord
Luke, formerly Sir George Johnston, dis-
covered when he lauched Bovril on a waiting
world. Besides his mansions in Portland-
square and Bedfordshire, he owns large
slices of earth in every cattle-growing part
of the Empire. With his two sons he is
now in Australia to inspect some of his
interests.
An Australian in Paris writes that the
fashion of the moment is distinctly Chinese.
Yellow powder is worn on the face, with
the merest thread of eyebrow 7 lifted at the
end to give the Pagoda expression. This
Oriental effect is topped with a Gob cap, a
round lid-shaped creation garnished with a
clipped tassel in the centre —the sort of
headgear worn by mandarins and Yankee
sailors. This fancy to mimic the pig-tailed
race has spread to the male sex. Foujita,
the Japanese artist who started the vogue
for the slicked-back style of hair-dressing,
led a recent fashion parade wearing ear-
rings, with a kim of his own design in scar-
let purple and orange worn over a backless
bathing-suit.
The South Yarra Tennis Club has fur-
nished a precedent by engaging an English
girl champion, Miss Dawson, as coach and
assistant secretary. Miss Dawson, who is
23, has several championships to her credit,
has played on the Continent, and has umpired
at Wimbledon. Accompanied by her mother,
she has embarked on the Ceramic, due to
arrive here on the 9tlr of next month.
At Malvern Town Hall on ■ a night last
week when there was snow on the hills and
frost in the air conductor Mallinson led the
Malvern Symphony Orchestra in such
ironically-titled works by Delius as “Summer
Night on the River,” and “On Hearing the
First Cuckoo in Spring.” The aquatic
number had its first Australian performance,
the cuckoo making a second appearance by
request. Haydn’s “Surprise” Symphony was
on the programme, and violinist Edouard
Lambert was soloist in the E minor Mendels-
sohn Concerto.
It is probably lucky for the V.R.C. that
Melbourne Cup day does not happen during
the football season. On Saturday over
52,000 watched an encounter between Colling-
wood and Richmond teams at, the M.C.G.
Interest in football is so keen that the
progress of important matches is posted on
the course during our big race meetings.
The dozen superb drawings which Norman
Lindsay did to illustrate “The Quarter-
master” have been reproduced in two-tone
ink on art paper, and are now on sale at The
Bulletin’s chief office, Sydney, and at all
branch offices. The complete set of one
dozen drawings costs only 25., and to put
country subscribers on the same footing as
those of the cities, the set will be sen! post-
free from the head office to any address in
Australasia.


Igggp
: -
■1
warn
■
B| §
1
&
HflS
HM
mm
1
**S
V: '•': y-.v
2$
HU
r
I HI
$
1
■I
■
A
HB
, ■
: :■ :
in
\
■
x
■
m
n
■
A
a
\
'
:;: Hn 88aa
AS
■
u
a
HB
H
ẅ
w


The Commonwealth Life (Amalgamated) Assurances
Limited.
Head Office: “THE BLOCK,” 424-430 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL . - - £500,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL - £150,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS £140,000
The Directors of the abovenamed Company beg to announce that they have
retained
MR. A. T. TRAVERSI, F.I.A. (Lond.), F.C.A.S. (New York),
formerly N.Z. Government Actuary and Government Insurance Commissioner, as
Consulting Actuary.
This step was rendered necessary by the growing importance of existing business
and the probability of further absorptions arising from the imminence of Federal
Legislation to control Life Insurance Companies.
The Commonwealth Amalgamated’s present staff and new offices are suitable and
ready for any desirable extension of business. The name of the company is eminently
suitable for the grouping of several of the younger companies who may find separate
existence increasingly expensive and difficult in the near future, and a formula has been
prepared which may afford them easy and creditable entry into joint, economical and
safe existence. The opportunity now exists for the Responsible Officer of any company
to open negotiations.
JAMES S. INCH, General Manager.
Amusements.
SYDNEY'S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE FIVE-
O’CLOCK GIRL.
ROYAL: IT PAYS TO ADVERTISE.
CRITERION: LOMBARDI, LTD.
OICKARDS’ tTv’cTlT THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEYILLE.
The World’s Best.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
SHOW BOAT.
ROYAL:
JOURNEY’S END.
ING ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
WHOOPEE.
fIOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
41 MELBOURNE.
SEE AND HEAR
THE FOX MOVIETONE FOLLIES OF
1929.
With SUE CAROL and DAVID ROLLINS.
ATjSO
See and hear WILLIAM BOYD as
THE LEATHERNECK.
PEACE
INSTANT
FOR ANGRY STOMACHS
Eat what you like—provided you take three tablets
of Para-Pepsin with it! Result: No pain! -Just
stomach peace and unaccustomed energy. Para-Pepsin
stops only the excess acid, and thus stops pain
without stopping digestion, as an anti-acid may.
Try Para-Pepsin and know this genuine relief! Costs
only 2/- at any Chemist’s, or direct from Amalga-
mated Laboratories, Kembla Building. Sydney.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
BSHI
BRITISH
MADE
PerJection
PITSK RUBBER
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern Is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Legal Notices,
HTO DONALD MACDONALD GAL-
A BRAITH of George Street Sydney in
the State of New South Wales Laborer.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation bearing
date the 7th day of August 1929 has been
issued in the Supreme Court of South
Australia citing you to appear and answer
the petition of Jane Kilyen Galbraith mar-
ried woman praying for a dissolution of her
marriage with you on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for five years
and upwards. AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that you are within twenty-one
days after this publication to attend in
person or by your solicitor at the office of
the. Master Supreme Court House Victoria
Square Adelaide there to enter an appear-
ance in the suit. In default of your so
appearing you will not be allowed to address
the Court and the Court will proceed to
hear the said petition proved and to pro-
nounce judgment in respect thereto in your
absence.
DATED the third day of September, 192!).
W. L. STUART,
Master.
Charles Arthur Sandery, Government
Buildings, King William Street, Adelaide,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
TO WILLIAM EDWARD VEALE form-
■* erly of Box Hill in the State of Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing
date the 18th day of July 1929 has been
issued in the Supreme Court of South Aus-
tralia citing you to appear and answer the
Petition of JOHN MEDCALF of Adelaide
Motor-body Builder praying for a dissolu-
tion of his marriage with liis wife ALMA
ELIZABETH MEDCALF on the ground of
adultery AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE
that you are within 40 days of this publica-
tion to attend in person or by your solicitor
at the office of the Master Supreme Court
House Victoria Adelaide and there enter
an appearance in the suit In default of your
so appearing you will not be allowed to
address the Court and the Court will proceed
to hear the said Petition proved and pro-
nounce judgment in respect thereto in your
absence.
DATED the second day of August, 1929.
F. B. McBRYDE,
Deputy Master.
J. F. McCarthy, 22 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Solicitor for Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
1 ZEALAND.
NORTHERN DISTRICT.
IN THE MATTER of the Will of JOSEPH
FLANAGAN formerly of Drury and
latterly of Birkdale in the Provincial
district of Auckland in New Zealand
Farmer deceased.
WHEREAS the above-named Joseph
Flanagan by liis last Will and Testament
left his Estate to his Nieces and Nephews
being the children of his brother Robert
Flanagan and of his two sisters Eleanor
Edmonds and Mary Quinn and to the issue
of any such Niece or Nephew as should
predecease him and appointed The Guardian
Trust and Executors Company of New
Zealand Limited to be the Executor of -his
said Will AND WHEREAS the sail
Joseph Flanagan died on the Ttli day of July
1926.
NOW pursuant to an Order of this Hon-
orable Court made on the 19th day of August
1929 all Persons claiming to be' entitled to
any interest in the said Estate are hereby
required to forward notices of their Claims
together with satisfactory proof of their
relationship to the Deceased to the Registrar
of the Supreme Court Auckland New Zealand
to reach the said Registrar not later than the
31st day of January 1930 failing which they
shall be excluded from participation in the
said Estate.
DATED at Auckland this third day of
September 1929.
C. J. HEWLETT,
Registrar.
Stewart, Johnston, Hough and Campbell,
Solicitors,
Auckland, N.Z.
Missing Friends.
■"FANNER. —Will tlie children of the late
Henry and Rebecca Hunt, formerly of
Mile End, London, England, or their descend-
ants, communicate with ALFRED DOUBLE
AND SONS, 63 Fore Street, London, E.C-,
England.
Note : The names of these children are
Charles, George, William and Edward.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Center of Queenland's
distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
There have been dances here, there and
everywhere and we’ve been indulging in a
regular vortex of gaiety. The Ninth Bat-
talion’s hop was at Rowe’s, with supper laid
in the Winter-garden, where the tables were
bright with pink and flame sweet-peas in
baskets and crystal vases. Lt.-Col. Radford
and his wife received the guests, she in black
satin with a black skirt falling in points,
a diamente buckle at the waist. There
was a big roll-up of officers, and the Locking
of the feminine dancers was very smart.
Not to be outdone by the military the
law students went gay, also at Rowe’s, and
their committee, headed by president
McGrath, saw to it that everybody had a
good time. It was mainly a younger-set jollo.
The Yacht Club also gave a dance, calling
it a “ladies’ evening.” The night was fine,
and the romantic balcony of the clubrooms,
overlooking the river, was a favorite sitting-
out place.
More dancing at Rowe’s took place as a
reunion of debs, of the Mater Ball. Host-
esses were Rita Kennedy, Doris Martin, Sadie
Tully, Miss P. Bergin and Miss W. Short,
all in their coming-out frocks. Iceland
poppies and daffodils set amid pouffes of
lemon tulle decked the supper table, and
lemon-colored fans marked the guests’ places.
Mrs. D. D. Georgeson, who is leaving to
reside in Sydney, was given a farewell party
at the Women’s Club by Merna Gillies. The
hostess was in black marocain and felt hat,
and the guest of honor chose Alice-blue
mariette with rows of tiny frills on the
skirt and a hand-’broidered cape collar,
topped by a black pandan hat trimmed in
magpie hues. Mrs. Georgeson received a
posy of mauve and pink antirrhinums and
stocks, and the club rooms were titivated
with antirrhinums, Iceland poppies and
stretlechia. As Verna Morcom Mrs. George-
son was well known as a singer, being the
possessor of a beautiful soprano voice. There
was music and, of course, tea.
Florence Esther, elder daughter of the
F. ,T. Heusslers, Eagle Junction, was married
at St. Andrew’s kirk to Eric Douglas, elder
son of the David Browns, of Mayne Junction.
The bride dressed the part in ivory satin
and Chantilly lace, with mitten sleeves, and
her veil of embroidered tulle was worn with
a circlet of orange bossoms. Maids Edyth
Moxley and Phillis Heussler were arrayed in
peach-blossom crepe de Chine with velvet
trimmed straw hats. A crowd of guests was
entertained afterwards at the Country Press"
Cafe by the bride’s parents.
Another wedding of last week was that of
Doreen, second daughter of the Charles Oggs,
Newmarket, and Colin, eldest son of the
H. C. Heelans, Mungallala, at St. John’s
Cathedral. Dean de Witt Batty tied the
knot. The bride wore ivory mariette with
a fitted bodice and long light sleeves. Her
veil was of Limerick, descending from a
coronet of orange-blossams, and she had a
shoulder posy of orange-blossoms and real
Scottish heather. Bridesmaids Bessie Ogg
and Jean Alford were attired in lemon mari-
ette with tight sleeves, topped by black Bang-
kok straw hats. They carried bouquets of
English primroses and pansies. The cake
was cut at the home of the bride’s parents.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Mrs. Wilford Mitchell launched the Free
Ward Ball at Temple Court for St. John of
God’s Hospital. The Franklins and Knight
Jimmy Connolly were guests of honor.
Attractive frocks were the apricot lace of
Mrs. Jack Durack, the jet bestrewn black
georgette of Mrs. O’Hara and the diamente
studded black, chiffon of Mrs. Roy Mitchell,
who has just returned from abroad. Beth
Hatch danced in crystalled ivory georgette,
Maude Mitchell in beaded burnt orange and
Mrs. Walsh in primrose ninon and lace.
A clear, sparkling night followed a wet,
miserable day for the Darlington Golf Club
hop. The hall was effectively decorated in
tones of orange, and festoons of colored lights
swayed overhead. Fancy costume was
optional. Mollie Oldham was a harem girl,
Pippin Carew Reid a Spanish lady. Mardie
Victor a Quakeress and Judy Curlewis and
Elsie Walton country girls.
Over a hundred bridge players dealt cards
at Mrs. Kiteliing’s home to augment tin'
funds of the Orphanage Company of Girl
Guides. Perfume from a profusion of roses,
daffodils, jonquils and sweet-peas pervaded
the rooms, and a sextette of lasses sold
sweets. Lady Campion presented the prizes.
She was accompanied by Mrs. Franklin, the
James lady and Mrs. Church.
Kath Ripper ensconced herself on the floor
of Mrs. Rex Nome’s drawing-room to remove
the brown paper from a clothes basket full
of bulky parcels, regardless of her becoming
mimosa green crepe de Chine. Miss Ripper
is to wed John Hargreaves very soon, and
Mrs. Nome arranged the gift party. Mrs.
Hewby, mother of the bride-elect, supple-
mented her daughter’s words of gratitude.
Mrs. Richard llardie and daughter Gret-
chen came back from their five years’ world
tour to celebrate the coming of age of
Gretchen, who is tall, dark and beautiful.
Temple Court Cabaret housed the festivities,
and a huge crowd was invited. Mrs. H’ardie
did the honors, the newly-qualified elector
wearing a gown of exotic origin.
Dusolina Giannini’s first evening here was
spent at a Repertory Club informal welcome,
at which she appeared in aquamarine georg-
ette and gold lace, with a cloak of gold
and black. Molly Bernstein wrapped a soft-
toned brocade coat around her moon-blue
cbiffons and Mrs. Goyne Miller, who received,
chose a black beaded gown. Chatter and
supper in the liberally-flowered downstair
rooms followed a presentation of Barrie’s
“Rosalind” by Mrs. Goyne Miller, Marcia
Hodges and Mr. Kayser.
Bill Gavan Duffy has returned from the
Cold Country after a four years’ sojourn. He
was met on arrival by brown-eyed Marjorie
Stevens, whom he is shortly to marry.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The Port Adelaide R. C. had a perfect
day for its meeting at Cheltenham. Chair-
man Dr. A. V. Benson and his wife enter-
tained the v.-r. party and others at luncheon
and afternoon tea. Lady ITore-Ruthven was
in a black cloth tailored coat with sable
collar, and her hat was a close-fitting felt.
Mrs. Benson wore a fawn tweed ensemble,
with a brown hat.
The Anglican Synod being on, Bishop's
Court has had a run of entertainments. In
addition to luncheons and dinners the Bishop
and Mrs. Nutter Thomas gave garden parties
to the clergy and laity. Their Exes,
attended one, and were very interested in the
mission caravan which had been touring the
Murray district.
Prof. A. E. V. Richardson and his wife
gave a farewell dinner party, followed by
a reception, for explorer-knight Douglas
Mawson, who leaves for Cape Town by the
Nestor this week to join the Antarctic
Expedition. It was a most learned gather-
ing, 20 professors being there with their
wives. Mrs. Beckx Daly (Edith Harrhy)
sang and played. The hostess gave a march-
ing song of her own composition, assisted
by the Lyric Quartet, and violinist Hutch-
ins won applause. Prof. Richardson pre-
sented the guest of honor with a gold bound
notebook containing the signatures of his
Ex., the C.J., the Lud Mayor and the learned
ones present.
Adelaide people who have beep holiday-
making at Mount Kosciusko include Mrs.
H. W. D. Stoddart, of Glenelg, with her two
daughters; the Eric McMicliaels and their
family; Mrs. Verco, with a daughter and
two sons; and 16 St. Peter’s College boys
in charge of one of’ the masters.
Here’s a Ruskin portrait of Charles Lang-
ley, who lately went to Melbourne. He was
an active mem-
ber of the
R.epertor y
Society, and
Director Clew-
low promptly
gathered him
into the Mel-
bourne R.T.S.
fold. Mr.
Langley gave
a sample of
bis talents in
the last season
at the Mel-
bourne Play-
house, when
he played the
r6l e of a
Stranger in
“T be Race
with t h e
Shadow,” and
proved himself
a very cap-
able actor.
Frank Hayward, managing director of
the John Martin drapery firm, who died
lately while travelling in America, left
£280,000. There are sundry bequests to
relatives and charities, and over a quarter
of a million is placed on trust for the widow
for life: after which half goes to half a
dozen charities in S.A.. and half to the
testator’s brother Charles, a popular lawyer.
An Adelaide wedding was celebrated in
Sydney the other day when Dr. S. L. Daw-
kins, of South Terrace, attending the Medical
Congress, was mairied to Mrs. Murray Cog-
hill, of Kensington Cardens.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
For the Launceston A.I.F. ball the Albert
Hall was decked in apricot, jade and salmon
pink, with shaded lights in the same tones.
Iceland poppies, ferns and violets, in crystal
bowls, among which twinkled electric lights,
beautified the supper-tables. The O’Gradys
were there, their party including Commander
and Mrs. Trevor Eardley-Wilmot, Mayor and
Mayoress Osborne, Capt. Von Bibra and Mr.
and Mrs. H. P. Ritchie. Premier McPbee
and his wife and a number of naval and
military folk were present. Three debs —
Nancy Murray, Olive Coombes and Molly
Roles —were presented to the Governor by
Commander Eardley-Wilmot.
Margaret O’Grady was at the dance given
by 34 bachelors at the Continental, and
sported a white georgette frock the floating-
draperies of which were dotted with daisies
of blue velvet. Spring tints figured in the
decorations and made an effective setting for
pretty frocks, among which were several in
the new shades of blue. The hosts wore
wee airplanes on the lapels of their coats.
The old Hobartions and the Wattle League
combined for a dance at the Continental in
aid of the Consumptive Sanatorium, and
there was a great crowd of dancers. The
O’Grady and his daughter were present,
Margaret in black lace made with a short
bolero and flares of black chiffon floating
at each side of the skirt. In the v.-r. party
were the P. 11. Mitchells. Col. and Mrs.
• Alan Crisp and the A- W. Potters. Members
of the visiting running teams were invited.
Bishop Snowdon Hay tied the knot at the
Anglican Church, Ranelagh, Huon, when
Geoffrey Stilwell (Hants., Eng.) married the
T. A. Francombes’ only chick, Dorothy. The
church was too small to hold all the guests
and onlookers. The bride’s dress, of heavy
ivory satin made on straight lines, was
topped by a lace veil lent by the James
lady, of Perth. The ’maids were the bride-
groom’s sister Joan, who came from the Cold
Country for the occasion, the bride’s cousin,
Betty Francombe, and a small trainbearer,
Peggy Butler. The elder girls wore powder
blue georgette frocks with peacock skirts
and chaplets of gold leaves and pink roses,
and the wee one was in a French frock of
cream lawn and hand-made Val. lace, poke-
bonnet, cream shoes and mittens. There were
after-rejoicings at the bride’s home, Water-
loo.
Mrs. Waugh and her sister Miss Webster
write from London that they are extending
their visit. They have joined forces with
Mrs. Geo. Nares, and have taken Lady
Parry’s flat for a term.


AH3IA
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney,
A
&
„fl Wiid
% enough-
to reserve just the accomadation you require
upon arrival in Melbourne. A few words at
at a small outlay and ‘ Scott’s will do the reft.
This means that a sumptuously furnished, light,
well-ventilated room with hot and cold water service
(and private bathroom attached if desired), electric fire
and direct and intercommunicating telephone will await you.
“Scott’s” is Melbourne’s foremost & moft central residental hotel.
Inclusive Tariff or
B-d and fait rate as desired
Collins
Street,
.JRfottjr. Melbourne.
7 eltjrams and Cables: “ Scottsoicl” Melbourne.
Telephone: Cent. 901 0 (Ten Lines)
ŵ
strangled sobbing, then Moira sprang up
and fled to her room.
Lesley was very quiet when she returned
to her seat. Blake studied her profile,
cameoed against the soft darkness of the
night, and there was wonder in his eyes.
What a thoroughbred, what a very great
little lady she was! There was a pain at
Blake’s heart that would not be eased.
He took out his pipe and filled it with
shaking fingers. He coughed uncomfortably,
casting uneasy glances at the girl.
“Forget that wretched business, Mrs.
Merton,” he began jerkily. “Believe me,
it is far better to forget it. Moira is not
like that, really. She is a good girl, a
thoroughly good girl. These horrible
relapses are”—
“Please, Stephen,” Lesley checked him
pleadingly. “It is—too—too dreadful.”
Blake stood up pulling furiously on his
unlighted pipe. What the deuce could he
talk about? He looked upwards at the
. stars, filling his lungs with great gulps of
the cool night air. '
“It is a wonderful night, isn’t it, Mrs.
Merton?” What drivel he was talking!
; “And a wonderful country!”
Lesley’s eyes met his frankly. She rose
and put her fingers upon his arm.
“Wonderful? Wonderful? Oh, Stephen,
there are times when I hate it—hate it—
: hate it!”
❖ $ *
The Mertons slept that night at Gabubu.
After breakfast Lorimer showed Merton
over the plantation, leaving the two girls
alone at the bungalow.
Moira’s manner was
constrained. She
looked worn out, sick,
and there was an
obvious fear in her
eyes. Lesley could
induce her to talk
only by plying her
with questions. Moira
watched her suspici-
ously, answering hei
half-defiantly, half-
amiably—as if the
white girl were an
enemy to be placated
rather than a guest
to be entertained.
Lesley was actuated
by no sudden impulse
of kindness. She sin-
cerely desired to win
the confidence of this
strange young beauty
who so sorely needed
a friend. Yet for a
long time- she des-
paired of finding any
common ground upon
which they could
meet
Gradually her graciousness broke through
Moira’s barrier of suspicious reserve;
gradually its sweetness set Moira at her
ease, and their heads closer together. Moira
began to talk freely. As if by mutual
consent they did not refer to the previous
night’s distressing scene in the music-room.
Then quite suddenly, quite naively, Moira
threw a bombshell.
“Do you love Mr. Blake vary much, Mrs.
Merton?”
Lesley gasped. She felt the color stream-
ing into her face, and, she uttered an
exclamation of shocked amazement.
“Moira!” she choked helplessly. “Good
j gracious, child, whatever do you mean?”
Moira half started back, and her face
clouded.
“I have spoken words that are wrong,
majffie,” she said doubtfully. “But no
matter! Mr. Blake loves you vary much.”
Lesley choked. She felt all her confidence
slipping away before the calm conviction,
the easy assurance of Moira’s tone.
“I have in my head two eyes,” she
wept on serenely, “and they see with great
clearness the love that”
“Moira! You must not say such things.
You are very wicked. You” Lesley’s
voice broke off helplessly.
Moira shook her head in vigorous nega-
tion.
“Wicked! No fear! I am a Christian girl.
He is a vary fine white man, this magi-
strate. And you, Mrs. Merton, are vary
fine girl. Like me,” she added simply.
She looked queeidy at her visitor. Lesley’s
face was crimson.
“I think you tell me one little lie, Mrs.
Merton,” went on Tod Lorimer’s amazing
daughter.
Lesley rose to her feet. “Please, Moira,”
she pleaded in distress. “You are hurting
me. I am married, child, and Mr. Blake
is my husband’s friend and mine. You must
never, never suggest such things.”
Moira’s eyes filled with tears, which she
brushed away angrily.
“You hate me now,” she said. “You are
not any more my friend. Are you?” She
put forth her hand timidly.
Lesley took it in hers. “Of course I’m
your friend, Moira,” she said.
“I am glad because you are my friend.
And when you kiss me, Lesley, I am filled
with a great happiness.”
That night Lesley crept on to her hus-
band’s knees as he sat out on the verandah.
“I do love you, Hal,” she breathed.
It was a defiant assertion, rather than
a plain statement of fact. Harry Merton
drew his wife to him, wondering.
CHAPTER XVI.
The Siai Comes and Goes.
It was steamer day at Akupaka. The
shabby little Siai lay at anchor off the
Government station discharging a hetero-
geneous collection of bags, bales and pack-
ing cases into a fleet of waiting canoes.
“‘One miserable bag for the station,
R.M. he said, a note of disappointment
in his voice.”
and there were bags of copra, beche-de-mer
and troehus-shell stacked high on the jetty.
Captain Barstow, the Siai’s skipper, was
closeted with Blake in the latter's office
Patrol-officer Jenkins was in the outer room
sorting mail. Presently he knocked at his
chief’s door and thrust in his head.
“One miserable bag for the station,
R.M.!” lie said, a note of disappointment in
his voice. “The others are for Tod Lorimer
and Laubogi.”
Blake nodded sympathetically. To him,
mail day meant merely a shower of curt,
orders from headquarters demanding
immediate action; querulous complaints
from office mandarins knowing little and
caring less about the harassing details of
out-station work; and occasional bundles of
papers from thoughtful friends in Australia.
Nevertheless, he could feel for Tommy
Jenkins, He, too, had once been a fledg-
ling patrol-officer.
“Better return the Laubogi bag to the
ship, Jenkins,” he said. He turned to the
skipper. “You’ll be moving oyer as usual
to Laubogi to load, I suppose?”
“You bet. Sooner the better,” the sailor
answered. “Cutting out Laubogi after this
trip. Owners’ orders. Too much lost time.
Care to take run to Laubogi, Mr. Blake?
Quick trip. Back to-night,”
Blake shook his head regretfully. “I’d
like to,” he replied. “Afraid I’ll be working
well into the night on the official mail.
Give the Laubogi folk my regards, Skipper.”
The skipper coughed.
“How’s the little lady?” lie asked. _
“Mrs. Merton? Very well indeed.”
“Glad to hear it,” the skipper said
gruffly. “Damned glad!”
The two men exchanged glances.
“By the w T av, Skipper,” Blake inquired
after a pause. “Do you handle any out-
ward cargo for Sam Turver?”
A faint surprise registered itself on the
skipper’s tanned features.
“A little,” he admitted. “Ships every
second trip as a rule. Up to half a ton,
maybe.”
“Consigned to Port Moresby?”
“To Brankston and Sons,” the other told
him. “As forwarding agents only. Sam
ships to Sydney—direct.”
“An unusual arrangement, is it not,
Skipper? To dispose of such small parcels
through Sydney, I mean?” .
The skipper looked up abruptly, raising
his eyebrows. “Say, R.M.,” he remonstrated,
“Turver’s my firm’s client, y’ know. Cant
discuss his business. Savee?”
“The ‘vag,’ ” Blake
replied shortly.
The skipper whistled.
“No can do, R.M.!”
he growled. “Turver’s
no dam’ good! Know
that. Can’t ‘vag’ him,
though. Got legitimate
trading interests. See?”
“So I perceive,”
Blake admitted drily.
He beckoned to a
waiting orderly.
“Will you take some-
thing, Skipper?” he
asked.
When Barstow had returned to his ship,
Blake unlocked his despatch-box and took
out a sheet of typescript. Then tapping a
bell that stood on the table, he sent for
Sergeant ’Babaka. In a few minutes the
old warrior stumped in.
“This,” said Blake, indicating the type-
script in his hand, “is a statement of what
you saw at Akupaka, set down in writing.
Gavamani fashion. Sabadi, then, did not
lie, Sergeant?”
“He did not lie, Taubada,” Babaka
assented vehemently. “I with my two eyes,
have seen the devils whereof he spoke.
Assuredly devils of another kind, Taubada;
formless shadows slinking in the darkness,
all glowing with a dim light; silent as
bats they are, Taubada; swift as”
“And you saw them, Sergeant—when?”
“The first night. Taubada; the night fol-
lowing the day we were at Akupaka.”
Blake nodded as though confirming an
opinion of his own.
“You are quite sure, Sergeant? rsot
the next night, nor the next?”
Babaka shook his grizzled head vigor-
“ That same night I saw them, Taubada.
I and Sabadi together. That same night
were our bellies filled with a great, feai,
and our blood was turned to water.
“Right, Sergeant. Carry on!”
Babaka hesitated. “One thing, Taubada,
I have not told you, because of the con-
fusion in my head.”
“Yes?” queried Blake.
“It was in our minds, Taubada, that
you also would wish to see these things.
Blake nodded.
“Therefore, at the appointed time, in the
space of two moons, maybe, we will send a
secret messenger bearing a warning.”
“You have done well, Sergeant. Carry
on!” iii
Jenkins, in the outer office, was absorbed
in his mail.
“I’m looking for Mr. Clover. Know
where he is?” Blake interrupted.
“At the store, R.M.,” Jenkins told him.
“Overhauling gear for the hill trip.”
Blake found the A.R.M. and some of the
police turning over mildewed tents, ram-
stained flys and other well-worn camp
equipment in the store. Glover’s lips weie
pursed in a soundless whistle, and from time
to time he wiped his streaming face.
Nevertheless, he was in cheerful mood. The
prospect of a three months’ patrol among
the turbulent hill people, away from the
routine of the station, had brought a
bright anticipation into his solemn brown
eyes.
‘ “D’ you think you’ll be able to carry
on with Corporal konigi?” Blake asked.
Konigi, hearing his name mentioned,
stiffened to attention. He was_ an aleit.
s o 1 d i e r 1 y-looking
Kiwai, young for his
rank, and obviously
proud of the chevrons
which decorated the
sleeve of his red-
braided jumper.
“I find I’ll need
Babaka here, Jimmy,”
Blake went on. “And
I wish also to deprive
you of half a dozen
of your best men.”
The sudden widen-
ing of Glover’s eyes
proclaimed his
interest.
“Something on, old
chap?” he questioned.
“Blest if I know,
really,” Blake an-
swered. He laughed
shortly. “Sorry I
can’t enlighten you
further, Jimmy.”
Glover cast an in-
terrogatory glance at
him. He was plainly
nonplussed. It was
not like Blake to be
secretive.
Glover sat down on
a tucker-box and un-
buttoned his shirt.
“Konigi will do me,
R.M. As for the
others, suppose you
take your pick of the
squad? You know
’em all pretty well.”
“Thanks, Jimmy. I
don’t wish to hamper
you in any way. This other stunt is, or
rather may be, important.” He turned
to go. “Tod Lorimer’s launch is fairly
speedy?” he went on with seeming irrele-
vance*. It was a question rather than a
statement.
“For Papua, yes. She’s good for seven or
eight knots, I fancy. More at a pinch.”
“And fairly smooth-running—noiseless,
I mean?”
“Sweet as a sewing machine,” Glover
stated. For a second he hesitated. “Sure
I can’t be of any help, Steve?”
“Thanks, no, Jimmy,” came the reply.
Left alone, Glover gazed perplexedly
about the store. His eye lighted upon
Corporal Konigi, who instantly became
rigid.
“The orders are changed, Corporal,”
Glover remarked. “You are to go with
(Continued on next page.)


;§
mm
" I think that your
Rexona Soap is delight-
ful for the skin and
hair."
MARGARET
BANNERMAN
Keeps the hair soft
Beautiful hair amply pays for the care and time used in
keeping it beautiful, and care is all that is necessary for
developing and retaining hair beauty.
When washing the hair, any soap will not do. Only a
specially prepared soap entirely free from alkali, and one
which has a tendency to make the hair soft and silky
should be used.
Such a soap is Rexona Soap, and if you would have your
hair truly beautiful you will start at once using Rexona
for washing your hair.
Dandruff, and excess of oil will disappear, your hair will
be so fluffy that it will look much heavier than it really
is, its lustre and softness will delight you, while the
stimulated scalp gains the health which ensures hair
growth.
Price 1 /«• per tablet .
li
i
REXONA.
SOAP
for Health and Beauty
RSI2R
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
An Ideal Winter Home —The Most Sheltered Spot on the Harbor, with Private Beach and
Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds
and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from A\ guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines).
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST COMMERCIAL FORESTRY CO.
SUBSCRIBED SHARE CAPITAL £240,718
SUBSCRIBED BOND CAPITAL £3,400,000
FUNDS LODGED WITH TRUSTEES £380,000
BANKERS—THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND AND THEIR AGENTS.
SOLE BROKERS—SMITH, WYLIE AND CO., LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN BRANCHES AT MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE,
PERTH, HOBART AND NEWCASTLE.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCHES—AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH AND DUNEDIN-
AND AT 36-38 NEW BROAD STREET. LONDON. E.C.2 : JOHANNESBURG. SOUTH AFRICA,
BOMBAY, INDIA; SINGAPORE; KUALA LUMPUR, FEDERATED MALAY STATES.
me to the mountains. The Sergeant takes
your place on the station.”
“I heard the words of the magistrate, sah.
It is good.” There was a glitter in the
corporal’s eyes which would have puzzled
the already mystified Glover if he had
seen it.
$ * * ■ *
Lesley could hai-dly restrain her impati-
ence when, in leisurely fashion, Mei’ton un-
locked the bulging mailbag and deposited
its contents upon the table. Instantly her
hands were busy.
“Here’s a letter for your beery friend Mr.
Turver,” she exclaimed.
“And one here for you from your flabby
friend Mervyn Woods,” her husband re-
toi-ted sourly.
They both laughed, but in Lesley’s eyes
was an unspoken challenge.
“Well?” Merton shrugged resentfully. “As
I have tried to explain more than once,
my association with Turver is solely of a
business nature. When you taunt me with
my ‘friends,’ am I to be blamed if I
retaliate?” A dull flush mounted to his
face. “You also have friends of whom I
do not approve.”
Lesley looked hurt. “Mr. Woods was
most kind to me, Hal.”
“I’m thinking of Lorimer’s half-nigger
daughter. What the hell possessed you to
take up with her?” He spat the words out
viciously. “When the dirty drab accepts
your invitation to this house you’ll pardon
me if I beg to be excused.”
Lesley’s face whitened. “How dare you,
Hal!” she flamed. “How dare you!”
For a second her husband glowered at
her, then abruptly he snatched up Turver’s
letter and thrust it in his breast pocket.
“Sorry if I’ve hurt your feelings again,
Les,” he muttered. “You don’t seem to
understand how we old hands feel in regard
to the—er—taint of Papuan blood.”
Lesley, her face unusually serious, did
not answer. She bent over the table,
mechanically sorting out the letters, news-
papers and parcels. Merton flung himself
into a chair and tore the wrapper off a
periodical.
Hal’s temper was very uneven, Lesley
told herself. There were days when he
was her gay and chivalrous lover ever
thoughtful of her, and the joy in her heart
would overwhelm her. But there were days
when he was restless, fretful, irascible; when
he would bully the house-boys, rail at her,
and fly too often to the decanter. And
she, oppressed by a nameless dread, would
bury herself in a book or her sewing, her
heart sick, her brain numb, until he came
to her like a l-epentant schoolboy—abashed,
ashamed—sorrow in every line of his face,
penitence in his eyes. She would show him
how vitally she disapproved; how severe
was the strain he was imposing on her
loyalty. And he would kiss her in sorrow,
caress her in humility, and the world would
be a dream world, until—the next time.
It was of no use pretending ignoi’ance of
the fact that there were disturbing weak-
nesses in her husband’s character which
would make for misery if he did not strive
to master them; tendencies which if not
sternly checked, would assuredly wreck their
married life. It was as though she were
fighting a silent duel with, a secret, hidden
foe—a dastai’dly foe who employed base
weapons—the other Hal, the stranger who
lurked furtively in the depths of. her hus-
band’s consciousness ready to pounce out
and destroy her happiness. Were all men,
she -wondered, like Hal! Were there in
all men two personalities constantly warring
one with the other! Already doubts har-
assed her, fears beset her. Already she felt
that happiness was eluding her; that her
di’eams of bliss were fading.
Hal’s enemy was the whisky decanter.
So she waited in troubled silence for
what she knew must come. She took up a
letter, opened it, but the dear familiar
handwriting seemed to swim before her
eyes.
Merton stirred. Lesley felt herself be-
coming rigid. Her husband laughed, and
springing to his feet, came to her side and
kissed her lightly on the cheek.
“Not cross with me, Kitten?” He placed
a hand beneath her chin and tilted her head
upwards. There was something in her eyes
he had never seen there before, and he
flushed dully. His air of carelessness fell
from him like a cloak; his easy confidence
deserted him.
“Don’t look at me like that, Kitten!”
he muttered. “Surely you know my feel-
ings you. I’m tremendously sorry.
He drew her to him, petting her, fondling
her, saying endearing words.
“I’m a colossal fool, Kitten, to lose my
temper with you; to-j-to fly off the handle.
It doesn’t mean anything, Les. Surely
you”
His arms were tight about her; his
kisses were hot upon her lips, but they
kindled no answering flame.
“Words—always words,” she told herself.
And words seemed to have lost their power
to serve.
The gate latch clicked and they heard the
sound of footsteps on the garden path.
“Anybody at home?” boomed a voice
from the garden.
Lesley disengaged herself from her hus-
band’s arms and flew to a mirror.
“Come in, Skipper!” Merton called.
The entry of the breezy master of the
Siai seemed to dissolve an atmosphere preg-
nant with possibilities.
“Belated wedding present, my dear,” he
rumbled. Lesley gave an exclamation of
pleasure. “Keeping fit, eh? No fever? No
dingbats? No grousing about the everlast-
ing sameness of everything, like the rest ol
the sinabadas on the coast? Eh? No?
Good!”
He passed an unsealed envelope to
Merton.
“Shipping receipt, Merton. Your copy.
Tallied sixty bags. 0.K.?”
Lesley was holding a tortoise-shell casket
to the light.
“It is very kind and thoughtful of you.
Captain,” she exclaimed softly. “See, Hal!
Isn’t it perfectly lovely?”
The shell had been selected by a man
who knew his business. Its polished sur-
faces glowed with a sombre and changing
light in the soft sunshine, as all good shell
should.
“Jolly decent of you, Skipper,” Merton
drawled. “I only wish I could fill it with
jewels.”
He flashed a smile at his wife. Lesley
raised her head and looked at him medita-
tively. There was a dejection in her eyes
that chilled him.
The skipper retailed the gossip of the
coast while Lesley’s pen scratched hasty
letters for the outgoing mail.
“What am I to say to Ronald, Hal?” she
asked. “He is simply crazy to resign from
the bank and join us.”
“There is plenty of time, dear. Tell him
to be patient. When I am ready for him
I’ll send him a wireless. You were saying.
Skipper, that Blake is sending a patrol to
the mountains?”
“Early next week,” answered the skipper.
“Glover in charge, and the young fellow
as offsider. Police are rounding up carriers
now.”
“D’you know if the patrol is going into
the Davana country?”
“Don’t know, Merton. Blake gave no
details. Mighty interested in Sam Turver
—Blake.”
Merton’s eyes narrowed as he regarded
the ash of his cigarette.
“Indeed?” he queried gently.
The skipper nodded emphatically,
“Mighty interested,” he repeated. “Ques-
tions, y’ know. About his business and
trade and so forth. Gathered Blake’d be
glad of an excuse to ‘vag’ Sam.”
Merton’s lip curled a little. “You were
able to assure him, Skipper, that Sam is
not exactly on his uppers?” Merton’s voice
was urbane and he was smiling faintly.
“You bet!” affirmed Barstow. “Be an act of
kindness, though, to Sam, to tell him to
take a tumble to himself. Can’t blame
the Government for thinking he’s loafing
on the village.”
“I shall do so with pleasure,” Merton
replied. “I intend to take a stroll over
to his place after dinner with his mail.”
Lesley looked queerly at her husband.
This was the first intimation she had
received of his intention to visit Turver.
And surely his sympathy for the beach-
comber did not justify his depreciating
his friend Stephen!
“Sam’s a fool!” averred the skipper dog-
gedly. “Serves him dam’ well right! Too
many i-um-guzzling ‘combos’ on the coast.
Bad for the country; bad for trade; bad
for everything. Agree with me, Mrs.
Merton?”
“Entirely, Captain. Harry tries to help
Mr. Turver. It is all to Harry’s credit,
and I admire him for it; but Mr. Turver
is pretty far gone. It is hard to believe
that white men can become so sunk in
utter worthlesness; can lose their souls
so completely.”
Captain Barstow blew his nose fiercely
and addressed his next remark to Merton.
“Owners’ ordei-s to cut out Laubogi next
trip. Ship’s behind time. Two days. Have
to make it up somehow.”
“But, I say, Skipper”
“Sorry. Have to lighter your stuff to the
Government station. Penalty under the
mail contract if we don’t run to schedule, y’
understand. No Laubogi next trip. Call
here every second trip in future. Not my
fault, old chap. Owners’ orders.”
Merton ruffled his hair. “D’ you mind
if I send a complaint to your owners,
Skipper?”
“Not at all. Take it with pleasure.”
$ * * *
Stephen Blake boarded the Siai when,
long after sundown, she dropped anchor off
the Government station. He picked his
way carefully across the littered deck and
climbed to the bi’idge.
“May I sight your manifest, Captain?”
he inquired politely.
“Certainly, R.M.” The skipper spread
the manifest upon the table in the tiny
chart-room, eyeing Blake with curiosfity
the while. Blake ran a finger down the
numbered entries.
“Eight bags shipped by Sam Turver to
Port Moresby. Now the shipping receipt,
if you please, Captain Barstow.”
He took the document the skipper handed
him, and examined it carefully.
“Do you make out your clients’ papers?”
he asked curiously. “I’ll swear Sam Turver
didn’t write this up.”
“No?” commented the skipper. “I didn’t.
Merton maybe. They’re friends—in a way.”
“Nor Merton, either.” There was a note
of mystification in Blake’s voice. He thrust
the document under Barstow’s nose.
“Whose handwriting is it? By Jove!” His
voice broke off in an ejaculation of astonish-
ment and he dropped the paper on to the
table. He recognised the handwriting now.
Sam Turver’s shipping receipt had been
prepared by Lesley Merton!
(To be continued next week.)


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
bools are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Australia and the British
Commonwealth
By the Hon. J. G. LATHAM,
K.C., M.A., LL.B., Attorney-
General of the Commonwealth of
Australia. [October.
The Sovereignty of the British
Dominions
By A. BERRIEDALE KEITH,
D.C.L., D.Litt., Regius Professor
of Sanskrit and Comparative
Philology in the University of
Edinburgh. About 1 Bs. net.
[lmmediately.
CANON STREETER’S NEW WORK.
The Primitive Church
Studied with special reference
to the origins of the Christian
Ministry.. By Canon BURNETT
H. STREETER, author of “The
Four Gospels: a Study in
Origins,” “Reality,” etc. Bs. 6d.
net.
Tiie Times : “He makes his own survey of
the evidence and defends his own conclusions;
and this freedom of judgment, combined with
a keen sense of the human and personal factors
in Church history, is what gives his book its
freshness.”
NEW NOVELS
Ready Immediately.
Hans Frost
A Novel. By HUGH WALPOLE.
Whiteoaks
[Dominions Edition.
A sequel to “Jalna.” By MAZO
DE LA ROCHE, author of
“Possession,” "Delight,” etc.
[Empire Library.
To be Obtained from a/I
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
r THE PATRIOT
[DIRECT MEDIUMTg WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Experimenting
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary Experiments?
Cut Waste and
Advertise with a
“Result-Bringer”
the telegraph
BRISBANE
Has proved itself for
over 57 years a good
“ Result-Bringer ” for
all Advertisers.
Che telegraph
newspaper Co. Ctd.
Queen & Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you 'pltetP'foTMite oriy'liial;
No More Rheumatism or Stiffness
“Only a backache!” “Only a pain!” “It 1
will go” you say! Yet it doesn’t go, and\
because you'treat the matter lightly, you
enter the danger zone—you take the risk of
cutting years from your life. It is not by
ignoring aches and pains, nor even by dulling
them that you safeguard your health. A
backache, a touch of rheumatism! stiff,
swollen joints or limbs —these may be very
serious signs. Act quickly. Act right!
FIND THE CAUSE
Locate the cause of your trouble, and remove
it promptly. A sound, safe and reliable
method of doing this is by the use of
Harrison’s Pills. This remedy is composed
of ingredients a qualified physician would
prescribe, and every package of Harrison’s
Pills bears the signature of a London doctor.
Harrison’s Pills not only soothe away the
aches and pains, but they definitely remove
the CAUSE, thus helping you to real health,
not merely the appearance ot’ it. Harrison s
Pills reduce the possibility of further attacks
and are absolutely safe under all circum-
stances.
TESTIMONY OF A NURSE
Writing from St. Andrew’s Private Hospital, New
Lambton, Sister B. Piper, says.: “The success of
Harrison’s Pills in treating Kidney and BUiad&i
Troubles, Backache, etc., has been such that I have
recommended this remedy to scores of patients, and I
can testify definitely to their unusual efficacy and
great value for use in these painful troubles.
Act now. Remember —rheumatic infection causes
more deaths from heart disease than any other
trouble. Get rid of your dangerous complaint at
once by taking Harrison’s Pills. Failing prompt
relief by this unusually successful remedy, see a
qualified medical man forthwith. All chemists sell
Harrison’s Pills, at 2/-, 3/- and 5/-.
For
Uric Acid, Backache, Rheumatism, Neuritis, Stiff Joints,
Swollen Limbs, Kidney, Bladder and Urinary Troubles
Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney, and all High-class Chemists.
Brighter
Frocks
for Kiddies
wecr
Specially designed for Children’s
garments, ‘Bo-Peep’ Print
wears well, washes perfectly, and is
absolutely colour-fast. There are
no end of different colours and
designs from which to choose.
''Bo-Peep' Print is 38 inches wide, and is obtainable in many
styles, designs and colourings. Sold by leading Drapers and Stores.
Produced by the makers of “Tricoline ''—the equal to silk •
(Ro-tPeep (Print
Looks qood—
is Qood"
for Childrens Wear.
If any difficulty in obtaining, write A FABRIC.
M. G. Rand ell, Empire Chambers, 93 York Street, Sydney.
Don’t Lose What YouVe Got
The future is uncertain. Numerous companies are
showing greatly-reduced profits.
Prices of many investments have fallen.
The wise man will watch his little lot.
You may have everything in insurance policies. All
the more reason to see the offices are sound. There
are offices that are not sound.
The leading Australian authority on all these
matters is
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6. From news-
agents, or “Bulletin” Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN PROCESSING
MILK.
t-HE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
* No. 25606/25- is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or for
the granting of a license to make, use and
vend the invention within the Commonwealth
of Australia on reasonable terms. Particu-
lars obtainable from Griffith and Hassel,
Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
BUILDING SLAB.
THE proprietors of Commonwealth Patent
1 No. 3800/21 are prepared to negotiate
for the sale of their rights in the above,
or for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith and
Hassel, Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A PAPER CUP.
HTHE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
* No. 81)08/22 is prepared to negotiate for
the sale of its rights in the above, or for the
granting of a license to make, use and vend
the invention within the Commonwealth of
Australia on reasonable terms. Particu-
lars obtainable from Griffith and Hassel,
Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A PAPER CUP.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 8874/22 is prepared to negotiate for
the sale of its rights in the above, or for the
granting of a license to make, use and vend
the invention within the Commonwealth
of Australia on reasonable terms. Particu-
lars obtainable from Griffith and Hassel,
Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 9584/22, in respect of an invention
ntitled “Improvements in Automatic Blank
Feeding Apparatus for Cup Forming
Machines,” is prepared to negotiate for the
sale of its- rights in the above, or for tin-
granting of a license to make, use and vend
the invention within the Commonwealth
of Australia on reasonable terms. Particu-
lars obtainable from Griffith and Hassel,
Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A PAPER CUP.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
I No. 8912/22 is prepared to negotiate for
the sale of its rights in the above, or for the
the granting of a license to make, use and
vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith and
Hassel, Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney. .
Missing Friends.
IWTcNEILL, NEAL, son of the late Eliza
and Neal McNeill and brother of Isa-
bella McNeill, deceased, is requested to
communicate with
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY.
333 Collins Street, Melbourne.
TONES, JAMES SYDNEY, eldest son of
J late J. C. Jones, Mt. Keira, please com-
municate J. W. RUSSELL, Solicitor, Wol-
longong. Information his benefit.
For Sale.
2000 BOOKS £25 to 6d. EACH
tv/r ANY old and rare editions interestingly
catalogued in List 15, post free from the
SIGN OF THE HUNTSMAN,
Soutliborough, Nr. Tunbridge Wells,
Kent, England.
New Way Stops
Dandruff.
Grows Hair.
Six out of eight are bald or. grey at 40, yet very
few need be. The hair roots can be stimulated
to new life very quickly by a new. scalp-invigorating
preparation known as “Vi-Glo.” This acts on the
growth and color cells much as rain acts on a
parched plant. So long as the hair roots and color
glands are not dead (and they rarely die), Vi-Glo
will show remarkable results, growing new, youthful
hair and restoring color to fading hair. Ask youi
chemist for a 3/- package of “Vi-Glo” to-day, or
send 3/4 for outfit to Vi-Glonent Co., Remind
j Building’, Sydney. Satisfaction guaranteed.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Onnosite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay •
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
THERE ARE MANY GRADES OF
CRAB, but
CAPTAIN CRAB
SPECIALLY SELECTED
TAKES COMMAND OVER ALL
ASK TOUR GROCER TOW M>tt R£CtPt-800K


PAINFUL POEMS
Into the water-lily pond,
In the middle of the wood,
I pushed my dear wife Melisande,
And left her there for good:
fj.
\
i 0
m
mg
I ' /,' V / / 7 /*> \ x\>
4^
v'A>,
•*r ;
--X'
7T/';
r\/
* *
WZ
?K
', f t
>.b
> '
Z >
y >
zb
/A
i s
m
m
tr->.
*n
1 S,
\i
/ \
m
\»
/»
> <
/ v
liii
*'
/5
1
to.-
W/
, I t 4 \ 1 l 111
■kJJSJwre
It grieved me much, I do protest,
Thus roughly to annul a
Marriage so singularly blest.
But she’d pinched my last
ABDULLA.
—Fougasse
SUPERB (Tgarettes
VIRGINIA TURKISH EGYPTIAN
ẁ
New Advantages
1— Smoother Operation at High Speeds
2 Rapid Acceleration—a New Silence and
Swiftness in Traffic and Up Steep Hills.
3 Easier and Less Frequent Gear Shifting.
4 Reduced Wear on Moving Parts—Longer
* Life,
5 Easier Handling—Restful Relaxation After
Long Drives.
—With Quiet High Speeds
With two quiet high speeds at their instant disposal, Graham-Paige owners possess advantages
in traffic on hills and the open highway that materially increase motoring ease and enjoyment.
You are cordially invited to drive a four-speed Graham-Paige and discover the real importance
of these advantages.
NEW SOUTH WALES ..
VICTORIA
SOUTH AUSTRALIA ..
jj&aJJ&L Q- cr*4LK.a*uS
cunvS
P
7
X
\
Model 615 Five-Passenger Sedan
Distributors for Australia and New Zealand:
w. H. LOBER & CO., LTD. WEST AUSTRALIA ARTHUR BALES, UMITED.
. . . WALTER WHITBOURN PTY., LTD. QUEENSLAND MOXON MOTORS, LTD.
MAUGHAN THIEM MOTOR CO., LTD. TASMANIA TWIN-TOP MOTORS PTY., LTD.
NEW ZEALAND WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO., LTD.
’ m


THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 George Street, Sydney.
HOW A SHILLING GROWS
One shilling per week deposited regularly in the Common-
wealth Savings Bank will, in 23£ years, reach a total of £lOO
—provided that the deposits are regular and the interest is
allowed to remain in the Savings Account.
Here, however, is the real point. Of the £lOO mentioned in
this example, you deposit only a little over £6l. The Common-
wealth Savings Bank provides the balance in compounded
interest— over one-third of the total.
Idle money earns no profit. Set your shillings to earning as
well as accumulating.
(fibmmonwealtft Savings JBanfc of Hustralfa
{.Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
BEFORE SNOW
GOTO
7k ficv'r TCURIST BUREAU
QUEENS WALK-MELBOURNE
obUAPTIN PLACf SYDUPY
WILI GLADLY ARRANGE ALL DETAILS
Bluff.
ANOTHER OF ALYS BROWN’S STORIES OF ISLAND LIFE WITH A
GRAPHIC ACCOUNT OF A TIDAL WAVE.
“/'"'IOME on, Ginge. Be a sport!” the
( trader coaxed, holding up a delicate
' K ~ y ivory finger of ohari kernel and
waggling it temptingly before the green
parrot. Leg-manacled by a cocoanut-shell
fetter to a perch in the corner, the bird sur-
veyed the titbit with a bored air and
remained obstinately silent, though his
master repeated the lesson for the fiftieth
time that evening.
“You’re a dumb old blighter,” said his
teacher at last, giving the nut to the bird
with a gesture of surrender. “Not a bit
like my old pal Ginger. You couldn’t get a
word in edgeways with him.”
Pausing in his dainty nibbling and blink-
ing his ruby eyes, the parrot cocked his jade
head as the crunch of footsteps on the coral
path disturbed the stillness of the evening.
“Hello, Skipper! This is a surprise. I
never heard you drop your hook,” the trader
greeted, as Captain Blancy, of the ketch
Siai, lumbered up the wooden steps and
puffing and panting flopped his great bulk
into a creaking cane chair and mopped his
beefy, red face with a sweatrag.
“Whyfor you want to plant your store
at the top of a hill boats me,” wheezed
Blaney complaining. “Ain’t the beach good
enough for you? Hello!” as he caught sight
of the parrot, “Where’d you get him, Snowy?
Trobriand bird, ain’t he? Can he talk?”
“Talk! Back at the village you couldn’t
hear yourself think for his talk. He can
chew the rag like anything in Binandele
talk, so I thought he’d be great company, but
now he’s tighter’n a clam. Well, for a start,
I suppose you could keep one down?”
Deftly slicing the top off a green cocoanut
lie emptied half the milk down a crack in
the floor and squeezed into the rest the juice
of a ripe sipora. With an air of careful
judgment, selecting first one bottle and then
another from a shelf inside the store, he
added a dash of molten gold; a jigger of ,
liquid fire, and, finishing with a liberal tot
of amber rum and a dust of fine sugar,
handed the fizzing nut to the thirsty captain
whose close-set eyes had been greedily fol-
lowing his movements through the open
doorway.
After a long drink and an appreciative
smacking of lips the captain spoke. “By
all the saints, Snowy, that’s a bonzer drink.
Regular stingo! What-name this one?”
The. Major called it Rumfustian, only by
rights it should have a fresh egg beaten up
m it. A couple of them and you want to
hght the world, so I call it Rumbuctious.”
* J/ ne °’ Britisher Bartell’s Oxford touches,
’ About the only useful thing he learned
there. By the way, where is his highness?”
‘Over t’other side of the bay,” answered
Snowy shortly.
The captain stared incredulously, then,
slapping his broad, khaki-clad knee, “You
dont mean you’ve parted brass rags?” he
demanded, an inquisitive look gleaming in
his mean little eyes, as with barely con-
cealed eagerness he awaited the trader’s
answering nod. “Well I’m blowed! What
made you part?”
The parrot, stirred by the sound of the
strange voice, shuffled uneasily on his perch,
ruffling his shimmering jade feathers and
scratching his orange beak with his .free
claw, as with fiery-red eyes he watched the
two intently.
Snowy rolled and lit a cigarette, and prop-
ping his lanky body against a verandah-post
.stared absently out into the clusk, where
twinkling fireflies were dancing a mazurka
in and out of the alamanda vines. A big
velvety moth, eyes glowing like twin fire-
opals, hovered unheeded round his head
though its churning, silver-spangled wings
brushed his crisp, fair hair. His sun-tanned
face netted with fine wrinkles, still retained
a youthful, almost boyish look, more suited
to lighter than to its present tight-set scowl.
*,/I• iar , nia( b‘ you part?” Blaney repeated.
His blanky bluff,” answered Snowy
tersely, the scowl deepening.
Captain Blaney, nursing the cocoanut
carefully between his broad thighs, snorted.
1 reckon you knew all about that before
you went partners, and you’ve stood it a
goodish while.”
"If I didn’t know it wasn’t for w r ant of
being told. I know you lot can't stick him,
hut as a matter of fact I liked his swank,”
retorted Snowy defiantly. “You see, Skip,
it s this way: partnership, ’specially in a
place like this, is a bit like marriage—two
of a sort don’t agree, and cheese and chalk
wasn t more different than the Major and
me, his father being a lord and mine—well,
I was dragged up at the end of a stockwhip.
Major Bartell, of the Coldstream Guards and
Trooper Biggs of the Desert Brigade, part-
ners, didn’t sound too dusty to me. I sort
of fancied a cobber with blue blood in his
veins, and I liked to hear him swank of his
family tree and the ancient retainers at the
old ancestral hall. I got lots of fun hearing
him skite about the best families and ask
‘Who are his people?’ ”
The skipper growled. “That’s what the
cow asked about me. Me, Snowy, that’s
been atop of every reef along this blanky
coast for twenty years afore he ever saw
it! ‘Who are his people?’ Damn him, I’ll
show him if ever I get a slant!” he threat-
ened wrathfully, and drained the last drop
of Rumfustian.
The nut dropped from his fingers and
rolled away into the darkness as he started
violently, for an affected - voice came from
the corner demanding “Who are his people?”
“Good for you, Gingc!” Snow'y chuckled ;
then with a shamefaced air he explained.
“After the Major wont it was a bit lonely,
so I started learning Ginger white-man’s
talk.”
The skipper guffawed. “Wasn’t it the
dead spit o’ Bartell! He fair made me
jump. But wliyfor d’ye call him Ginger?
lie’s green.”
“That’s why,” said Snowy slyly, reward-
ing the bird with a rosy wax-jambo, and as
the skipper looked bewildered, “Green ginger!
Sec ?”
“Bah ! You've lived with Britisher Bartell
that long you think you’re as smart with
your tongue as he is. Called me ‘that big
bounding bluffer Ber-laney,’ he did, but I
turned it to fit him, and I reckon ‘Bartell’
rhymes better.”
Turning to the parrot, he hoarsely mouthed
the alliterative phrase again and again; but
Ginger, having crunched the juicy fruit to
the last morsel, tucked his head under his
wing, so the captain turned his attention
again to his host.
“But what made you part? You haven’t
told me that yet!”
Snowy rubbed his back against the veran-
dah-post, gently scratching the priekly-heat
rash between his shoulder-blades against the
roughly-adzed surface.
“We hit it all right, and were doing well
until he sends for that young brother of his.
Of course I knew he was one of the e-lite,
for the Major skites about him every night
and starts painting a signboard—-it’s under
the house now —‘Bartell, Biggs and Bartell,
General Merchants.’ Ho, yes! We was
going to spread ourselves when that smart
young ’un gets here. Well, you know how
that ended. We’re down at the beach when
.Tosie Dickson’s cutter comes in, and before
the hook’s down Josie shouts, ‘Hey. Bartell !
That young brother of yours you was expect-
ing got drownded last week in port!’ The
Major goes white and swallows hard. I
turns away, not wanting to see him cut up,
when he drawls, ‘Re-ally! Is that so? Well,
as I paid for his kit I hope the young blight-
er's clothes will fit me.’ Of course it was
only bluff—l can see that now. But at the
time it stuck in my gizzard. I had a bout
of fever come on, and I lay awake all night
thinking about it. I don't mind telling you
I cried like a kid meself when me old prad
Carbine went west near Sinai, so it’s a cert
I’d have thought none the worse of the Major
for showing a bit of feeling. But, thinks I,
if that cold-blooded beggar acts that way
over his own brother, what about his part-
ner? Chuck me to the sharks to save a
funeral and bluff he don’t care a damn!
Bluff’s all right, but you can carry it too
far. So in the morning I says, ‘Major, you
and me’s got to part.’ I didn’t say why and
he didn’t ask. only shrugs his shoulders and
agrees. We halved up the stock and then
tossed for this site. He lost, and went and
started a place across the bay. Then he
took up with a girl from Kiriwa, hoping to
get their trade, I suppose. He’s welcome
to all he can get from that lousy lot—they’re
bad pays all right.”
“Don’t you never see him now?” asked his
listener, eager for any crumb of news to
retail, with his own spicy additions, at every
store and plantation along the coast.
Snowy smiled a glim, tight-lipped smile.
“Met ’em together on the track one day.
‘You see, I've got a dictionary,' he says. ‘Best
way to learn the language and get in touch
with the natives, don’tcher know!’ But I
fitted him one there, Skipper. ‘Going to grow
blackberries on the old family-tree, eh, what,
what! Who are her people?’ I says, and
that got under his skin all right, for I hear
he packed her off home again. Knowing
your opinion of him, I told him something
else, too. ‘You’ll have some trouble getting
your copra away, for Blaney won’t lift it.’
I says.”
Captain Blaney sat up with a jerk, his
muddy-brown eyes snapping viciously. “Hell
and blazes!” he exclaimed. “Whyfor did
you want to say that? O’ course I’ll take
his copra. I’d carry coke to Hell for the
Devil himself if the freight was paid,” and
grasping a bulging knee with one fat, red
hand he pointed the pudgy forefinger of the
other at the trader, finishing truculently, “I
never lets personal feeling interfere with
business, Snowy, me boy! O’ course I’ll
take his copra. I’ll get over there for it
in the morning as soon as I’ve tallied yours
in.”
With difficulty he eased his gross body
from the grip of the chair, for his
lamp-boy, and with a curt “So long!” ambled
off down the track, snarling at the boy as
he went.
Disturbed by his noisy departure the
parrot lifted his bright head from under his
wing, blinking drowsily, and in rasping
tones repeated, “Big hounding bluffer j”
changing to a mincing “Who are his people?”
before lapsing again into somnolence.
Snowy smiled wryly. “That’s right,
Ginger. Always wait until a bloke’s back's
turned before giving your opinion of him.
Old gasbag! I was a fool for telling him
anything; now 7 he’ll chew it over from here
to Port.”
* # * *
Some days later Snowy Biggs was in the
store measuring off rami-lengths from a bolt
of calico wfhen wild shouts and screams
brought him with a rush to the verandah.
A yelling mob of natives came racing up the
incline from the beach. One man pausing
in his wild flight and pointing over his
shoulder to the bay, shouted a warning, then
followed the others in their headlong rush
to the bush.
The blue w 7 aters of the bay usually so
calm and placid, were hurriedly forsaking the
shores, receding swuftly and smoothly until
they reached the reef, over which they rolled
in a tumbling, tumultuous smother of seeth-
ing white foam.
Snow’y w’atched the ebbing waters w 7 ith
fascinated gaze, then shouted to his store-
boy to run for his life. But Didi stood irre-
solutely at the top of the verandah steps.
“Taubada, w 7 hat you going do?” he in-
quired.
“Me?” said his master. “I’m going, to
stop along me store. White men never run,
Didi. You skedaddle for your life before
it’s too iate, me son, and take Ginger wuth
you.”
The boy shook his frizzy head, and, though
chilled with fear under the brown of his skin,
muttered, “You. stop,, me , stop too.”
So Brown and White, side by side, wmtched
the w T ater suck out and the garden of the
sea laid bare. Branching trees and stark
fangs of coral appeared, gleaming white like
dead men’s bleached bones; grey nigger-
heads and monstrous, overgrowm toadstools
of red and purple coral reared, from the
slime, with dripping mermaids’ tresses of
limp, green seaweed clinging to their honey-
combed tops ; huge clams closed hungry, gap-
ing mouths as the water drained away: be-
yond gloomed the jagged, cavernous wall of
the naked reef. The oozy seafloor was littered
with squirming, writhing life ; and the sharp
spat-spat-spat of gasping fishes Hopping in
the mud, sounded like the stutter of a
machine-gun.
Myriads of seabirds appeared from out
the blue; clouds of sooty-terns and blackcap
gulls, gannets and frigate-birds; whirling,
shrieking and quarrelling as they flocked to
the feast, dappling the grey-green slime with
the white of their plumage.
Far out at sea a mountain of water was
rising, a dark ridge on the silver-blue hori-
zon, gathering, heaving and tossing sullenly,
until suddenly it sagged, down, down into
the throat of the mighty deep, to be vomited
back and come racing swiftly and silently
landward.
As the snow-white welter of its racing
feet reached the reef the bottle-green crest
and gloomy slopes crashed over with a
thunder of wrath, boiling and foaming, and
the trader’s lean, tanned face blanched and
Didi shivered and whimpered with fright.
Quickly the silver sands were covered, and
the wall of water came ravening up the slope,
tumbling down the beach-palms like nine-
pins and carrying on its crest the frail boat-
house and copra-shed.
“Up with you, Didi!” shouted Snowy, and
the two vaulted on to the verandah-rail and
clung to the posts, perching like a couple
of fowl's as the tidal wave, mounting the
incline, came hissing towards the store and
swept in angry waves across the verandahs.
Fishing canoes were snatched from the
beach and uprooted trees hurtled along like
battering rams. Snowy groaned as he
watched them, for if but one struck the piles
of the store he knew it would be the end.
But now, as if exhausted by its climb, the
wave slowed down, faltered as it reached the
bush, and at last with a whispering sigh
slowly began to recede, leaving much of its
burden of debris behind.
Didi pointed a shaking finger to a stranded
shark, flopping on a bed of russet cocoanut
fronds —riven thatching of the boatshed. As
it lay gasping, with flapping gills and heav-
ing sides, snapping its savage jaws and
threshing its body in dying agony, it swept
the tattered thatching aside from a white-
lettered board, “Bartell, Biggs and”— —
Snowy almost lost his balance on the rail,
fear gripping his heart at this sudden re-
minder that his one-time partner was in
like peril.
Now once more the water left the bay and
the waiting birds resumed their gorging until
routed by its return.
Three times the wave thus ebbed and
flowed, each time with waning force, and
though the floors of the store were swept by
its waters the stout melilla piles withstood
its furious onslaught.
At last the bay ceased to boil; once more
the waters sparkled placidly in the golden
sunshine, though beyond the reef the ocean
still surged in high-crested combers. The
seabirds perched on the rocks were silent
now, glutted to repletion.
Easing down from his refuge, Snowy
stretched his cramped limbs, wondering how
his quondam partner had fared; wishing he
had been less hasty in parting: sick with
fear that the wave had swept Bartell and
his makeshift store away; his only hope of
the Major’s safety lying in the knowledge
that the store was built higher and farther
from the beach than his own.
Picking his w r ay across the slippery floor
and finding his field-glasses high and dry
on a shelf, he anxiously scanned the oppo-
site shore, and when reassured that the little
shanty was still standing pulled on his wet
boots. “I’ll go over in a bit and make it
up,” he thought penitently. “White men
should stick together in this cursed country
where you never know what’s going to
happen next. Let him bluff —it don’t mean
nothing!”
With Didi’s help he retrieved what he
could from the wreckage, and was starting
off to tramp round the bay when Bana, Bar-
tell’s errand-boy, a deaf-mute from Kiriwa
village, came slushing through the mud, a
note in his hand.
“Good old Major! He’s beeir worrying
too ! Sending across to see how I’ve fared,”
and Snowy took the note with a smile, which
quickly changed to a frown as he read: —-
“Dear Snowy,—Can you lend me a tin of
butter, please?—Yours, Bertram Bartell.”
Smothering the explosive words which rose
to his lips, Snowy nodded carelessly to the
waiting boy, and, entering the store, took
a tin of butter from the shelf. “Thinks a
blooming tidal wave isn’t anything to write
home about, does he? Wei], I can bluff a
bit too. Anyway, this puts the lid on me
holding out the glad hand,” he muttered
bitterly as he pencilled on the bottom of the
note a laconic “Herewith,” and handed tin
and note to Bana, who had been mouthing
excited meaningless gutturals to Didi.
(Continued on page 57.)
Captives.
In their cages side by side
Two birds wake at morningtide.
One acclaims the rising sun
With a joyous song. And one,
Dreaming of a cageless morn,
Broods in silence, spirit-worn;
Captive, while unfettered kin,
Peering hedge and tussore in,
Hours of eager toil begin.
Nothing the canary knoics
Of an impish wind that bloics
Over grasslands far away,
Coaxing blade and leaf to play;
Boundless skies and silver streams—
These delights alone are themes
For a captive thrush’s dreams.
MAORXLAND.
Thus the golden prisoner
Feels no rebel craving stir —
Born to duress, slender bars
Mean for her no spirit scars.
Song, a joyous sacrament.
Tells the riches of content
With no pang of longing blenx.
Yet the thrush is richer still —
It remembers how the hill
Greenly in the morning light
Rose and fell beneath its flight.
Luring thicket .... sun-born breeze ....
Calling mate. and freedom —these
Are its priceless memories.
C.H. WINTER.


I Ualung, Public Companies, etc,
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares . . . . . . 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares . . . . . . 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
GRANTS DRAFTS
THE
lIIIITCn insurance
(Jill 1 Eli COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 18G2.
Head Office:
GEORGE S HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Fire Insurances '.'{footed on ail classes of
" Buildings. Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks ou Wool, Merchandise,
' Hulls of Vessels. Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
<an be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Dbe Dominion
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre o#
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do
minion’' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—•
P-O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from —
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNAVICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.,).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1029.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G, N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
Monarch
Cigars.
Craig sAitken
I . Wholesale
I ft Distributors
: I Sidney N.5.W
S
Shipping, etc.
On Southern
Seas . ... or
Sunny Shores
m
m
*
m.
w
AUSTRALASIAN
ROYAL MAIL LI NE
WHETHER on board the liner
en route for Honolulu or holi-
daying on the Sunny South
Sea Isle, your enjoyment is assured.
For Hawaii is a world-famous
holiday resort, whilst the vessels
engaged in this tour —the Niagara
and Aorangi are imposingly large,
wide-decked axid splendidly fitted for
pleasure.
Return Excursion Tour via Auck-
land and Suva:—
£75 First Saloon; £55 Second.
Departures:
NOVEMBER 14, DECEMBER 12,
JANUARY 9, FEBRUARY 6.
Union Steam Ship Co.,
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
jjjsp
11
A
•S
o
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
JAVA
(The Land of Eternal Sumwjr).
OLD BUDDHISTIC AND HINDMSTIC TEMPLES- -NATIVE BAZAARS.
EXCELLENT BIG-GAME SHOOTING. BEAUTIFUL TROPICAL SCENERY.
EXTENSIVE TEA GARDENS. • INTERESTING PEOPLE.
Regular monthly sailings by the favorite vessels
"MARELLA" (7500 tons) and ''MALABAR” (5000 tons).
Pacific island Excursions
To Papua, New Guinea, Salomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island, Norfolk Island and New Hebrides.
TRIPS OF FROM TWO TO FIVE WEEKS'' DURATION.
Make your selection now and Book Early,
Apply to
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne. • y Brisbane, Adelaide.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund. .
Reserve Liability
w
ŵ
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20.900,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1928, £88,982,585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
554 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. ■ Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Queensland’s Greatest Advertising Medium,
“BRISBANE COURIER
Carries more advertising than two other Brisbane dailies combined.
“COURIER”
for 6 months,
Ending June 31, ’29
Two other Dailies
for same period
14,216
13,758 i
Advertising
Columns,
Advertising
Columns,
The "Brisbane Courier” is the largest and most reliable financial,
commercial and home paper in Queensland.
First in- Circulation, Coverage, Advertising and Influence.
Published by THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER CO.,
Courier Building, Queen Street, Brisbane.
Syd. Rep.: ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Shipping, etc.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
tDemosthenes 11,500 tons, Sept. 28
*§Ulysses . . 15,000 „ Oct. 23.
JCeramic . . 18,500 „ Oct. 29
: Themistocles 11,500 „ Nov. 20
* First class only, f First and Third class.
t‘*Cabin” class only. §Via Suez.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. ) j0l „t
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd.j A * #nt ®
Splendid Cheap Service
Via Suez Canal.
FAST OIL BURNERS
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued from Sept, to Feb., £32.
P. § 0. BRANCH SERVICE
SPACIOUS DECKS—DECK CABINS—EXCELLENT
MENU—CINEMA—DANCE MUSIC REPRODUCED
WITH ELECTRIC AMPLIFIERS—SWIMMING BATH
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
’Phone : 86701
BRISBANE, viaBYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Set*
BRISBANE.
PARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/8/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Huddart ParkerLl^HiS:
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice vem
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDAItT PARKER Li MITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
ẁ
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua
If you hav*
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention
Officer 44 Bridge Street. Sidney.
p y HAIR
* EEO
HERE'S
■unuj-
&
Grev Hair ,is always taken to he a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required 6hade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist,
or storekeeper for—
SFOU&rCs cMEXICAN)
UkUrudS&Mt
''■REMOVES THE GREY”*
Hole Australian Aaent.i:
DUEItDIN & SAINRBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
1) unobtainable locally , posted
direct (7,/fi). 6rf. being postage.
ẃ
If any illustration in The -ButtETiN takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who win
quote van price for V2e original-


m
dr\
'm
Sk apt
Fashion in China
(FASHIONS, varying in
■J Chinaware as in all
else, are constant in this
that a tea-cup and its saucer
must be exquisitely light.
English Bone China alone
has this perfection. One
of this season’s mo st fashion-
able ’designs is illustrated.
To say that every piece
bears the name of Shellev
is to say that it is English
Bone China of the best.
AsX TO SEE THE LATEST
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
Lucie Attweu
t Hilda Cowham
DohesticWare
Jelly Moulds
• «.*TI3N MATE
CP Awv DIFFICULTY IM oaTAtMlftlfc
WftlT* TO
TiV.MIATMtCO.ITO, I mI oi
lASINCE JT.
FIERY ECZEMA
1 Twice Cost Him
His Job/
Mr. JOHN BEALES
Proved Zam-Buk The Only Remedy.
Writing from “Wyuna,” Shepherds,
via Junee, N.S.W., Mr. Beales says: —
“With fiery eczema on both hands I
could not work. Twice I had to throw
up my job. My fingers were all
cracked and raw, and pain and irritation
were frightful. The empty tins and
bottles I have here show the range of
useless ointments and lotions I’ve used.
“Luckily for me at last I sot a supply of
Zam-Buk. The first applications of this fine
herbal healer gave immense relief. All the
sores cleared away as I steadily applied
Zam-Buk. The old skin peeled leaving fine
new healthy skin underneath. There’s no half
measures about Zam-Buk.it does its work
.quickly and thoroughly. '*
lamßuk
1/6 box & 3/6 family size. All chemists,
If any illustration in *'THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
HEADACHES HEAVINESS
INDIGESTION
Eno will combat
these symptoms of
faulty elimination
We’ve all experienced it—for it happens to everyone
sometimes. This getting up in the morning tired,
headachy* dizzy, with a bad taste in the mouth. These
are usually signs of constipation, often unsuspected, but
nevertheless dangerous to ignore.
Eno’s “Fruit Salt” deals with these “ills of civilisation”
in much the same way that regular exercise, fresh air
and simple food would do. For Eno prompts the most
important of the bodily functions to work dutifully and
to time. Eno removes the waste and poisons of yester-
day from the system, safely, naturally and thoroughly.
Yet Eno is so mild you can give it to any child. Follow
this golden rule of family health, proved for sixty
years; a glass of Eno’s “Fruit Salt” —sparkling and
refreshing—first thing every morning.
I*
ENOS
FRUIT SALT
0
r
prepared only by
g a <sho m, s
eCowdon England
Sales *j%?ents f
ZTCarolct
"tf. fflitc!)ie & Go. SStd.
Sydney, SN’S. C W,
Months Went by—monotonous months,
broken only by occasional calls from Josie
Dickson or Captain Blaney. The rivalry
between the two stores had early been settled
by the natives; backsliding customers re-
turned to their old allegiance, preferring the
even temper and good nature of Snowy to
the uncertain moods of the haughty major.
“I've brought Bartcll no white man’s kai-
kai these two trips, and there’s no, Bumfus-
tian over there now, nor any other kind o’
rum,” Blaney at last reported. "It’s barely
worth while going across to lift his bit o’
copra.” Then, looking down complacently at
his own corpulent girth, he _ added, "He’s
regular herring-gutted too. Living on yams
and bananas, if you ask me, and lie's rotten
With fever; hut he cracks hardy and reckons
lie's doing tine, the big bounding bluffer !”
To Blaney’s surprise Snowy found no com-
fort in this tale of ill-fortune. “Live and
let live.” he replied. “There should be plenty
for both of us.”
Often in the evenings he sat on his quiet
verandqh after Didi had gone off to the
village, wistfully watching the spark of
light across the bay* and invariably as
it flicked out, went heavily to bed.
Once. ..when Ginger hoarsely rumbled the
time-wbni "big bounding bluffer,” he
answered “Too right, Ginge! The trouble
is, with two bluffing, there’s uo chance of a
show-down, so it's a case of freeze out.”
Then came a day when Blaney brought
a stranger to the store. “Got a gent, here
who might be a relation o’ Bartell’s,” he
announced wiping his bald head, a malicious
smile broadening liis fat, sweat-streaked face.
The name’s the same. He was passing
through Port and heard o’ a Britisher, so
I offers to bring him along. Might be a
brother or a cousin, eh. sir?” and he cocked
an inquisitive eye at his passenger, an aris-
tocratic. monocled gentleman who shook
Bands with Snowy and accepted the proffered
chair.
'He’s a real lord,” whispered Blaney iu
a hoarse aside, “and 1 reckon he's going to
take the wind out o’ Britisher’s sails.”
“real lord,” chatting casually of
his trip, was evidently waiting for the cap-
tai.ws departure before stating bis business.
"Well, I’ll get back aboard and leave you
two gents. _ for a bit,” said Blaney reluc-
tantly, realising this at last. “I’ll take you
over the bay to Bartell’s in the morning, sir,”
and waddling down the track was out of
earshot before Sir Edmund Bartell referred
object of his visit.
‘ I was passing through Port and heard
there was _an Englishman named Bartell
living here,” he began, and looked inquiringly
at Snowy, who va s stroking Ginger’s glossy
feathers, a vague uneasiness troubling him.
"That’s so! Major Bartell, of the Gold-
stream Guards,” he answered curtly.
"Is that so?” queried his guest suavely.
m ould it surprise you if I told you that.
Major Bertram Bartell. of the Coldstream
Guards is my brother, and is at present
stationed in England?”
‘‘M 011, Mister,” replied Snowy, a trifle bel-
ligerently, warily scanning bis visitor, “what
about it? I don't know as there’s any law
m this country against a man calling him-
self what lie likes. Besides, I know 7 Major
Bartel] and I don’t know you,” he finished
bluntly.
"Just so, just so ! I beg your pardon. I
am Sir Edmund Bartell. Here is my card.
.Naturally I am very curious to meet my
brother’s namesake. I intend calling on him
to-morrow, but first I would like to know
a little more about him than Captain Blaney
has already told me. Do you happen to
possess a photograph of him?”
Snowy went inside, and after rummaging
in the kerosene-case desk, returned with a
faded snapshot, saying briefly, "That’s Bar-
tell.”
Ginger shook out his feathers, arched a
crest and inquired blandly, “Who are his
people?”
The Baronet started, then smiled at the
inquirer. "Just so, just so! I can answer
that question. This,” handing the snapshot
back, "is Private Albert Bootle, my brother’s
batman during the war. His father is a
porter at Oxford, and I believe Bootle was
formerly a college scout. He has no right
to call himself either ‘Major’ or ‘Bartell.’ ”
Snowy flushed under his tan. "It’s no
crime that I know of to change a letter or
two, so what are you going to do about it,
Mister ?”
“Expose the man ! He’s an impostor,”
snapped Sir Edmund impatiently. "I can’t
have him masquerading under my brother’s
name, especially as .Captain Blaney tells me
he is no better than a beachcomber.”
“Go slow!” warned Snowy. "Don't you
take all that Blaney tells you for gospel.
Bartell isn’t no beachcomber. lie was my
cobber, and as good a mate as any man ever
had.”
“But I understood that you and he bad.
quarrelled and dissolved partnership,” said
the puzzled barouet.
“So we have; but I don’t suppose that
Blaney told you it was my rotten bad temper
that ; drove him out. Me, Mister, I’m the
worst temperedest bloke on this- coast, bar
none. I inherits it from me father, Paddy
Biggs from the Devil’s Bit—he w 7 as a drover
wnth the worst record in the State for drunk
and disorderly. That’s who I got it from,
and, I give the Major—Bootle, I mean—a
hell 'of a time.”
Noting his listener’s incredulous look, he
weqt on desperately; “Look here, it’s like
thisj. While roe and him was together he
kept the brake on me. Now I’m getting-
worse and worse, and me only chance is to
get in with him again, and if you put the
boot into him I’m done. You aren’t think-
ing of settliug down in this country, Mister V"
Sir Edmund adjusted his monocle and
stared at him. "Settling here? Good Lord,
no! lam merely passing through.”
“Well, then,” said the trader, “It won't
do you nor your brother no harm to let Bar-
tel! or Bootle, alone. If you let on to that
spiteful old dog Blaney, my partner’ll never
hold up his head again. He’s chock-a-block
with pride. Whatever his name is, I reckon
he did his bit in the war, private or major.”
“Just so, just so,” acknowledged Sir
Edmund, impressed by his earnestness. “ I
believe he earned the D.G.M. It is not his
record I have any quarrel with, but I do
object to him using my,, brother’s name.”
"Now. Mister,” pleaded Snowy, “that’ll be
all right. I’ll get back into partnership
with him, and I promise you there shan't
be any dirt on the name of Bartell, As I
told you, I want to reform, and only me
partner can help me; but if you blow the
gaff to old Nosey Parker down there—well.
I don't know what’ll happen. Give us a
chance, Mister. Don’t kick a man when
lie's dowm.”
"Big bounding bluffer,” sniffed Ginger from
his perch, and Sir Edmund looked hard fur
a moment, first at the green parrot, then
at the contrite-looking trader. Lapsing into
a brown study, he gazed with absent eyes
out over the golden alamanda and fragrant
frangipanni bushes, across the blue water to
where the lonely store stood on the sand
dunes between jungle and sea. Ginger
pecked fretfully at his fetter, and Snowy
nervously rolled a cigarette and stuck it
behind his ear.
Suddenly Sir Edmund rose a faint twinkle
in his eyes, the corners of his lips twitching
as he said, “Yott have deeply impressed me,
Mr. Biggs. I should be sorry to do any-
thing to prevent your reformation —your
desire is most laudable. Just the same, I
think your partner is. a very fortunate man.
I shall, however, have to forego that call
on him in the morning.”
“I’ll fix that all right,” Snowy assured
him joyfully, and bustled round hospitably,
commencing to juggle with the bottles on
the shelf.
“Sit dowm again, Mister, while I malm
you a real Oxford College drink. I’ll bet
you’ll say it’s the finest drink you ever
tasted.”
“Shades of Balliol!” murmured Sir
Edmund after his first sip from a brimming
cocoanut. “You’re right" Mr. Biggs. It’s
marvellous. Perfection itself!”
Between drinks he enthused, “Ambrosia,
my dear fellow!” and there was just a sus-
picion of hilarity in his manner when the
two strolled dowm to the boat and Captain
Blaney joined them, bursting with ill-
repressed curiosity.
The mean gleam in the captain’s eyes
faded, and he stared blankly at their smiling
faces as Snowy drawled, “Your passenger’s
met with a disappointment. Skip. The
Major’s away inland, but I happened to have
a snap of him, and he isn’t any relation to
this gentleman at all. There’s no need to
go across the bay neither, as me and the
Major has swapped brass rags and we're
partners again. We’re buying Josie Dick-
son’s cutter and doing our own carrying.
Wo as I’ve no freight for you there's no use
you wasting this gentleman’s time here.”
And with a cordial farewell to Sir Edmund
and a mocking grin at the captain’s sour
face, Suowy strode back to the store chuck-;
ling.
As he watched the Siaj sail through the
passage in the reef out to sea, he was hailed j
from below by Private Albert Bootle — alias'
Major Bertram Bartell —who had hurried ;
round from the other side of the bay.
“Hey, Snowy!” he demanded testily.!
“What the deuce does that fellow' Blaney I
mean by not coming across for my copra?
Eh, what, what!”
“That’s all right. Major,” soothed Snowy.
“Come on up and I’ll tell you.”
As the other joined him on the verandah
he continued, “I took a bit of a liberty about
your copra. Major. I didn’t give him mine!
neither. You see, Josie wants to sell his!
cutter, so what about coming in again and
us doing our own freighting? We might put
up that signboard of yours—Bartell and.
Biggs. What do you say?” and he searched
his thin, worn face anxiously.
“Oh, well, I don’t mind if I do, Snowy.
'Though I’m doing pretty well over there.
I’ll bet the skipper was wild, when you told
him. Who was the chappie in whites?”
“Some English tourist bloke, called Bar-,
ton,” drawled Snow'y casually, scratching
Ginger’s poll. “Wore a window-pane in his
eye. Blaney said he was a lord or some-
thing, but he wasn’t half a bad sort. What
about putting up that sign right away,
Major?”
“Barton! Lord Barton !” exclaimed the
Major excitedly. “Jove! I am sorry I
missed him. Why, he and I were pals at
Oxford.”
“What stiff luck!” condoled Snowy. “I’d
have kept him if I’d known, but it can’t be
helped now.” Then, seeing by the cock of
the jade head and the wicked wink of Gin- j
ger’s ruby eye that the parrot was about to
speak, he hastily snapped the shell fetter,
and with a flick sent the bird whirling
through the air.
But Ginger had the last word, after all.
“Big bounding bluffer,” he screamed, and
flew away over the cocoanuts.
Sinpyugyi.
IN THIS STORE OF A GREAT ELEPHANT C, R. E. CHILDERS GIVES
ANOTHER CHARMING PICTURE OF LIFE IN THE JUNGLES OF UPPER
BURMAH
1* the early nineteenth century, when
Burmah and its tributary States were
ruled or misruled by King Bagyidaw, the
jungle villages in the upper reaches of the
valley of the Mintha formed an outpost of
a somewhat primitive civilisation.
The villages themselves, each surrounded
by its own bamboo stockade, were clustered
on the banks of the main stream. Small,
remote, pitiable in their poverty, they de-
pended for their existence upon narrow strips
of cultivation which had been laboriously
formed from the smaller water-courses. To
jfche north lay a mountainous tract, vast and
silent, inhabited by the lordly elephant the
arrogant bison, the wily tiger, the timid
smaller game, but untrodden by human feet,
for it was too precipitous to permit the exist-
ence of even the wild Kachin hill-tribes.
And untrodden it remains to this day • for
the of Asia have shown ’ but
little, change, save where the discovery of
mineral wealth or the advent of road and
railway has brought an influx of other
peoples. The incessant and ruinous wars
waged by Bagyidaw and his predecessors
also left the Upper Mintha valley untouched
{Continued on next page.)


FEATURES THAT HAVE MADE THE “SWAN” FAMOUS
w
PERFECT
Lines
Self-Filling
“ Swans'”
tan itls
Slack Sr Mottled
Also in attistie
colours from
lIM
(©thgf ‘‘Swkiis*'
Front i 2s
Ask fc@ see:
ttife New
Gbidtireci
il Swans.**
ŵ
Beauty of form is
always associated
with that which is
WelhconCeived >
and enduring—as
for example the
paceful 1 Clipper* of
ike ’70% the sculptured
Venus, the 'Swan’ Pen.
The perfect propor-
tions of the ‘ Swan’ are
expressive not merely
of beauty but of all
that beauty represents
—soundness of con-
struction, sureness of
performance.
"Fyne-Poynt” Pencils from 7/6
Self-Filling “ Blackbird ” Pens from 9/-
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.*
Swan House, London, W.i.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
M& ’agittr Agents and Repair Service Depdti
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD,,
iBl, Clarence Street, Sydney*
PEN
SWAN” INK—Best for “Swan” Pens and all Pens
Is Lr
*
% i
i mi
: 4
.
NOW NEATLY CASED -at same price
A strongly-made grained-leather case is now provided with every Plum
Razor, at no increase in cost. With its blade set to perfection— guaran-
teed and kept in order for two years free—the Plum Razor shaves cleanly,
easily, quickly—leaves the most delicate skin smooth and comfortable.
Black Vulcanite Handle .... 12/6 each
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle . . 15/6 „
Real Ivory Handle 21/- ”
Satin-lined double case free with pair.
7-day Sets—7 Razors in Case.
Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
Post- free to any address.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
FTLI
for its very remoteness and the smallness
of its male population caused the myotliugyis
to overlook it wheu ruthlessly conscripting
their levies.
With its gorgeous scenery, its equable
climate, its never failing rains, its rich soil
capable of yielding a forty-folcl crop, there
seemed no reason why it should not have
been a land of peace and plenty: but the
inhabitants, though safe in their seclusion
from troubles which are the outcome of
the avarice of man in more populated regions,
had, in the many creatures of the wild, a
formidable enemy to contend with. Serious
depletion of their small herds of cattle and
buffaloes was caused by the marauding tiger
and panther. When once their rice padi was
planted they knew no peace. The strong
stake-fences erected around the fields to pre-
vent the ravages of deer and pig were con-
tinually being damaged and broken by larger
game; and when the ears of rice had formed
the jungle birds would swarm in thousands
to take their toll.
Afterwards, when the monsoon season was
at its height and the padi tall and green, a
great herd of wild elephants would descend
from the northern hills to smash through
the fences and feed upon the luscious crop.
For many weeks the animals would remain
in the neighborhood, drowsing in the dense
thickets during the hours of daylight and
emerging into the fields, at dusk. The vil-
lagers would maka the nights hideous with
shouting and banging of gongs in vain efforts
to scare off the marauders; but their only
weapons were spears and crossbows, and
the elephants, grown used to the noise, would
eat and trample the padi at wall, refusing
to be disturbed save at times when they would
turn to charge some bold man who had
approached sufficiently close to discharge
a spear or an arrow.
Year after year the same herd would make
its descent from the hills, and at times
the shortage of rice caused by its depreda-
tion of the padi fields would be so serious
that for months the villagers would be re-
duced to living on jungle fruit and roots.
The chief bull was a magnificent white
tusker, known to the villagers as Sinpyugyi.
Like the majority of “white” elephants so
highly prized by Oriental potentates of the
past, he was really very little lighter in hue
than his fellows; but “white” is a com-
parative term when applied to elephants, the
pure albino being a great rarity.
Sinpyugyi was an exceptional animal in
other respects than his color. His height
at the shoulder was a full seven cubits or
more. His massive head and trunk, long
deep barrel and heavily-girthed legs suggested
immense power. His tusks were enormous.
Still under forty years of age, he was in the
full vigor of early prime. The elders of the
villages could well remember his first appear-
ance as a young calf. Even then he was
outstanding, larger, stronger, more courageous
than calves of twice his age. Before he was
fully grown he had gained the leadership
of the herd, fighting and vanquishing his
predecessor. Other bulls would take great
care to avoid him, especially during the
summer months, when he would come on
musth and grow ferocious. On occasions
when a young bull would show desire for a
more intimate acquaintance with one of the
females, a short, sharp fight would take place,
and the presumptuous aspirant, if not killed,
would be driven ignominiously from the herd.
The villagers, ever superstitious, credited
him with supernatural powers, and the fan-
tastic tales they wove round him filtered
through to the Burmese Court at Ava, until
the King ordered his Ministers to dispatch
a band of Karens—elephanteers of renown
from time immemorial—to capture and bring
in this new plaything.
After months of weary marching the
Karens arrived at their destination at a time
when the rains were due to break. Having
listened well to all that the villagers were
able to tell them, they proceeded to cut logs
and construct a strong kheddah close to the
foothills in the path along which the
elephants invariably passed when making
their annual migration. The kheddah com-
pleted, they sat patiently to await the
arrival of their quarry.
The monsoon was passing its. zenith, and
Sinpyugyi and his companions were making
their way slowly southwards. When within a
day’s march of their goal, while proceeding
along a well-worn game track during the late
hours of the afternoon, feeding as they
moved, there arose from the rear and from
both flanks a chorus of human shouts
mingled with strange sounds such as the
elephants had never heard before. Keeping
his subjects -in front of him, Sinpyugyi
increased his pace, but was ready to turn
instantly should the threatened danger
approach too close. _ Without warning the
elephants found their passage barred by a
wall of heavy logs. which lay across the
path, cunningly concealed by foliage. Cast-
ing sideways they met similar walls; then
came a loud thud as the gate of the kheddah
was dropped into place by men hidden in
the trees.
All through the night the great trapped
beasts hurled themselves against the walls m
vain efforts to regain their freedom.
Next day tame elephants were ridden into
the stockade by the Karens and one by one
the _ captured animals were. Surrounded,
chained and led out, until only Sinpyugyi
remained. All attempts to fetter'him proved
fruitless, and after he had attacked several
of the tame animals, hurling them to the
ground and killing their riders, the Karens
tried new tactics. Pieces of opium were
concealed in large balls of tamarind fruit
and thrown into the kheddah. The weary
and hungry Sinpyugyi, coming upon one of
the balls, seized and ate it, and within half
an hour was overcome by a stupid sleep.
When he awoke it was to find himself
with heavy chains on both fore and hind
feet. The gate of the kheddah was open, and
the natives, now sure of their prey, were
standing around the captive, some chattering
with excitement, others silent with awe and
admiration. -
For a time -Sinpyugyi struggled foolishly
to free himself, yet with such furv that the
thick skin on liis'ankles was chafed through,
and blood spurted from the wounds. But as
the effects of the drug slowly left him his
brain cleared. Seizing then in his trunk (lie
chain which hobbled his forelegs, he,exerted
himself to the utmost. The middle links
snapped' asunder. The rear chain quickly fol-
lowed, and he stood free. The natives turned
and fled through the kheddah gate.; only two
of them Were not deet enough of foot and,
being overtakes, Were pounded into shapeless
bloody masses.
As Sibpyugyi made rapidly northwards he
halted on the crest of every hill and roared
his triumph and defiance.
During many following monsoons other
herds of elephants came down from the north
to harass the cultivators, but SinpyiigyS
never revisited the Mintha valley, and it Was
not until the last day of his Cxist'CriCe, more
than fifty years later, that fife was again
seen. What life he Uvea during that half-
century can be tip more than guessed at.
Now he stood browsing on one of his
beloved hills, a great gaunt ninety-year-old
animal, with dry harsh skin and deep hollows
in his head. A thunderstorm was hpijroach-
ing, and as the rain began to fail he moved
out into the open-, for ho liked to feel it
beating coolly upon him. In his younger days
instinct would have warned him that danger
was close at hand, but age had dulled the
once-keOtt intellect.
There came a flash and a loud report, and
Os Sinpyugyi. sank slowly to his knees a
white man with a rifle in his hand stepped
from behind a bushy tree and stood gazllig
at the fallen giant.
* # * *
More than five decades have passed since
the elders of a hill village near the eastern
frontier of the State of Karenni began to
tell their grandchildren tales of the times
when they were hired by the Burmese kings
to capture and tame wild elephants, On
the last of these expeditions they trapped a
great white tusker, who killed half their num-
ber, and finally succeeded in breaking the
heavy chains that bound him and escaping
to the jungle. They considered this mishap
a sign that the gods were displeased, and
never again did they go forth to capture
wild elephants.
They told of the immense size and strength
of this phenomenal elephant and of its
amazing tusks, and as the generations pass
the story is exaggerated until already the
exploits of Sinpyugyi are among' the legends
of Karenni.
In a small country town in another land
many thousand miles distant there dwells
a white man. He is old and feeble. His
house is filled with trophies of big game,
relics of his younger days. His finest trophy
is a pair of tusks, larger even than the tusks
of the sacred white elephant of King ThibhW,
And to his grandchildren this old matt tells
the story of how he came by them,
Shortly after the overthrow of king
Thibaw and the annexation of the Burmese
Empire, he had been detached with k column
to make a. rough exploration of a hitherto
unknown hill tract in .the far north of the
Country. In his wanderings he had come
across an tracks of such unusual
size that he determined to follow them up
and discover what manner of animal had
made them. For four days he and his fol-
lowers had kept to the trail, and finally
found their quarry just as a thunderstorm
was breaking. The elephant, a gigantic light-
colored animal, obviously of great age, was
standing in an open glade-near the crest of
a hill, with the rain streaming off his flanks
m rivulets.
He was reluctant to shoot, but the desire
to possess the animal’s magnificent tusks
overcame his scruples, and he raised his
rifle to his shoulder.
And then an almost unbelievable thing
happened.
Nature had brought Sinpyugyi into the
world, and it would seem that, jealous of
her masterpiece, she would not permit a
human being to be responsible for his death ;
for as the hunter- lifted his weapon, there
came a flash of lightning, followed by a lotid
clap of thunder, The old elephant Sank to
the ground, and only a small mark bn the
side of his head remained to show where
the lightning had struck.
But what to the white hunter seemed
strangest of all was that on the four feet
of the elephant were deep, broad fetter-
scars; yet there were 110 girth or saddle
galls, no brand, no goad-scars, no belbrope
mark on top of the. neck. And how could the
one sign of captivity be reconciled with the
complete lack of any other?
*****
So the memory of Sinpyugyi is preserved
in these tales handed down to posterity in
two far countries.
Winter Evening.
It was so old a day it scarce could creep
Trembling to that far-off western sea P
Where all the days must die. It seemed to
weep to
sar fsrj&g
A “ “ with “
About it grev rains rl„no- nf a, „
‘ Between id rnm.'S Me’aid
It was so very old a day, who knows
P * i( was “ d » f
The oh] men silently in reverence rose,
- As Helen passed them on the walls of
Troy?
VICTOWA -
J. ANTHONY PEPPER.
Ere I Go.
Not now for me broad banners of delight
Above Love’s wide pavilion blossoming;
Not now in caverns of my heart awing
The doves of Venus rising passion-bright.
I know an eagle energy to-night;
My throbbing blood-.some other song would
sing
Save that which only in great grief can
bring
Remembrance of Desire dream-winged for
flight. ...
Ambition saps me with swift,.eager"breath.
I sense a region neither fire nor air,
Unknown to Time and Space.. God, be-my
guest
In that soul-paradise one hour ere Death
Lets down the streaming dark of her wild
hair
And covers me tumultuously with Rest,
N-S.W,
ZORA CROSS.


mmm
WESTI N G HOUSE
Morse Siient Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—ilOJLMEs & CHIiKCH, Brisbane. f'rtWfASJh WECT M t uriirr
K.Z. Office— l)3-107 T'eatherston Street, WeUiiigftqn. LUntUKU “to 1, O. n ALto
Victorian Office— I “Chancery House,” 485 Bnurke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. RtPEB, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide. B.A
V ; ;/ ; / '■ . V V ' . - .. ' -
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper.
To-day, in the great State of Queensland, the newspaper that
offers to merchants and manufacturers unquestionably the
finest “cover” in the daily paper field is
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
Circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be
greater than that of any other Queensland daily.
For rates and other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE,
First Floor, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE’’
Established 185).
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
To advertising campaign can be success-
ful if the quality of the product adver-
tised does not contain full value for
the price asked.
If your products can meet these require
merits, “The Age’’ will prove a valuable
medium for creating goodwill, and
.will considerably lessen the time in
moving them from storage to consumer.
Merchants and Manufacturers of quality
products in ever increasing numbers
are realising the truth of the. slogan
“It Pays to Advertise,” and are direct-
ing their efforts in marketing through
the columns of “The Age” as a neces-
sary medium for business promotion in
Victoria.
Audited Net Daily Circulation
123,533.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in ail States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Auslralasiaiv”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Aust. ..lia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter state agencies of
Messrs. Cordon & Goich, price 1J d.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrinsrton
Street, Sydney, Telephone, BW7OAB.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BKONAhU, “The Herald” Building's,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue is eagerly read by men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYLNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 223
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: ‘Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Bedtime ia a (food
I timz-4ut any
time id the iiqht
time to take 9
C.
•uk
**•» '
<2? PIL.
■ 3
*K VS. %
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
mm
Sfv-A
R
A
r-H
Vol 5.
TUESDAY. SEPTEMBER 17, 19?9
w
THIS WEEK'S FREE PATTERN
(See oaoe 64)
64 Pages
of
Reading for the Home
SIOKUS. VERSE, SPECIAL
ARTICLES
Fashions, Needlework,
Health, Household,
Books, etc,
f'ubliiliPtl by
tfjjutteiui
ŵ
Over 160,000 Copies Sold Every Week
k
y*°cP
&
0°
t er
$ e \ f
e
’’ cJb
*o* *■ *+' ..-•••S&gr
ai*‘ ..•*
•• V V rt *v


**r
'?■■■■>
tsri>,r
m/i
*
K 5
/rniW®
a'??
I-iV
• -)'.v
<a35».-i
sfe-
-.1..
A&SZ-y:
fax?':-'}
-.\
. -
f.f
UP
55&,-
\W®
SWv*
Johnnie .
Red
b<?i
Sfc
iserv
‘s' -14 m
**•'>*:'
!«»•
SSK
■ :
*w*
2*®*.
&
w.,r
3s??
■
'•■ £ .*3gf
>•■ -•■
*8?
'
v*.
w&
%*r
szhes
sxssse;
'■&m7 :$52&
as®
&gPu>
-■•- ...
res
A STOPPER
46
ITS OWN”
0
■im
m
m
- i
1
■M.
m
m,
■v:
M
HK.Hf? = XH,R
ft VVMR oj|
Vr-
y c l, , ■Tik/foi.'Jj*' • *,.,„«!< P£
..r-r- «OlhiT - A- ci "/v* •• U“
N fr i pirJTftFto/-.
C~or’/;’s>K.<ys:3j;- .. *3
00
- fa
: -y>&
£E
m
%
*
■v
■ i
AWARPJ
HliMtS T EAH.ar.w
fcr*
m
Born 1820 -
JTf/77 going Strong
&
O
S>
V/ )
WHISKY
JOHN WALKER « SONS LTD., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
LONDON, AND KILMARNOCK
There can be no two opinions about
it. Overwhelmingly popular as
Johnnie Walker always has been,
the new stopper with the milled
edge provides its crowning point
of excellence. Any whisky would
be the better for such a stopper
but when it’s on Johnnie
Walker, well, it tops the very
finest of spirits.
'‘nil up the tag—remove the capsule-—draw the cork with
finger and thumb—and enjoy the finest blend oj matured
Scotch ivliiskies that ever a cork restrained.
