

i,
- ' -■ "I
Jfl
n^i —r
a
*4=?;
a>
/2r<
tw <&>
• Jj2,
tv (V%
r»
ft
I
5 '
VL
W
RB
/
W?
//
//
k/
(pt>
rtn
c
©IfMtMS 1b
o g, RoTn-tt'-SJjfer;
SIDNEY-AUSTRAL
i«w>
Resell
Qthf nuinf C a 9 ?r
DA
Pinner Ale
Australia's Best
g
/?£5
TRADE
SVOAte
<0
u
ui
C£
0®
AUS'
The Bulletin
0$ JfhYtXAMHrtUj fta&e
Vol. 50. —No. 2551.
Wednesday, January 2, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Memorize
Pass Examinations-
with Ease.
-Speak without Notes
Send this advertisement for Free 32-pag-e Booklet
to STOTT’S TECHNICAL CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE. 100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
WRITE FOR THE LIBRARY CATA-
wHoh L^ E ~ AND H STS objects,
free to 1 b<? Ao ** ards!i on application,, post
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD
424*426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
é
THis Booß FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence Colleoe
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your Kent P T ee
Booklet, explaining hoxv to Write for Profit wt
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. ' ’
My Name ....
My Address
(LYS AG HT
o
B
R
|§SS §
-AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
l-ysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
'™JP° r " led , under t>’ e Companies Act 1863.: Established 1872.
Directors— Janies Love, Esq (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wni. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.Q.
Genekai. Manager —M. Q. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
w!!.wT a London > Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
en^ nd .and Northern Rivers, K. S. Wales, also representation
*C, ea *‘il g Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
—jl>_2.?_ ers _^ e vilest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
ê
| "\7*OU cannot buy a better
JI pen for the money than
| this sturdy, good - looking
“Blackbird.” Each part is shaped
| and finished with the care and
precision not usually found in
| pens of similar price.
i SELF * / of stationer;
f FILLING M / AND
“BLACKBIRD” ** l JEWELLERS
fekACKBIRI?'
SELF-FILLER
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., 133 & X3S, Oxiord St., London. W„I
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181, Clarence Street, SYPN2Y.
“Swan” Pens, “ Blackbird ” Pens, “ Swan ” Ink and “ Fyne-Poynt ” Pencils,
S 3
In Days of Old
White hair was
all the vogue.
In modern days
grey or white
hair is consid-
ered a sign of
appr o a c h i n g
age.
It is NOT “THE
THING.”
All traces of Grey can readily be removed
by an application of
Dr. Allen’s (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Sold at' all Chemists and Stores.
Harmless, easy
to apply, can-
not be detected
Manufactured by
DUERDIN AND
SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street,
Melbourne.
I
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
rar\
09
* Jf*
* #**
7
MUSTDIF
Sold Everywhere.
PRICE 1/-
KILLS FLIES
d 4?
The Red Page
Second Thoughts
ln his “Literary Recreations” Sir Edward
Cook devotes a chapter to the second
thoughts of poets, dealing particularly with
Coleridge, Tennyson, Fitz-Gerald, Myers,
Meredith, Rossetti, Arnold, Keats and
Wordsworth. Even a casual perusal of his
selections leaves a decided impression that
a great deal more may be said in support
of than in opposition to Horace’s advice of
the “nine-years’ pondered lay.”
Between the original “ancyent marinere,”
whoso adventures were related in the “Lyri-
cal Ballads” of 1798, and the gentleman,
born 19 years later, with whom most of us
are familiar, a great gulf is fixed. With
infinite loving care Coleridge revised his
masterpiece, changing the aggressively
archaic words throughout (his hero now
being simply an ancient mariner), using the
scissors on passages regarded as being too
starkly bloodcurdling, patching the narra-
tive as the omissions required, and making
many minor alterations in phrase and epi-
thet. Lines like
The Sun’s rim dips; the stars rush out;
At one stride comes the dark
are a priceless addition* The albatross
th*Sit now “ate the food it ne'er had eat”
formerly fed on “biscuit-worms”; and the
moon erewhile “horned” magically becomes
“star-dogged.” The whole poem lies before
us, more organic, more precise, more real-
istic, more sheerly beautiful.
Some of the earliest of Tennyson’s poems
were so thoroughly reconstructed as to be-
come virtually new works. In the 1833
version of “A Dream of Fair Women”
appeared the stanza:*—
The tall masts quivered as they lay afloat,
The temples and the people and the shore,
One drew a sharp knife through my tender throat
slowly—and nothing more.
Of which Lockhart said in the Quarterly,
".hat touching simplicity; what pathetic
resignation; he cut my throat—‘nothing
more’l One might indeed ask what more
she would have?” Twenty years later the
passage achieved its present perfection:—
The high masts flickered as they lay afloat;
The crowds, the temples, wavered, and the shore ;
The bright death quivered at the victim’s throat:
Touched; and I knew no more.
Of Fitz-Gerald’s “Omar” there are four
main versions, the first (1859) containing
to stanzas, the second 110, the third 101,
the last-named undergoing only minor re-
handling before becoming the final text.
The quotation of one quatrain must suffice
to give an idea of the poet’s mode of work-
ing, first edition:—
Here with a Loaf of Bread beneath the Bouo-b,
A b lask of Wine, a Book of Verse—and Thou
Beside me singing in the Wilderness—
And Wilderness is Paradise enow.
Final edition:—
A Book of Verses underneath the Bough,
A d?, of Wlne > a Loaf of Bread—and Thou
me singing in the Wilderness—
Oh, W llderness were ParaUik? enow!
The lapse of more than a quarter of a
century between the publication of the
first and last editions - of what has been
called the greatest love-poem of the Vic-
torian era, Meredith’s “Love in the Valley ”
is responsible for an amazing feat of re-
vision. The very first line “Under yonder
beech-tree standing on the green sward”
indicates. the general improvement in the
substitution of “single” for the unimportant
standing. How thorough and how effec-
tive the reconsideration was may be seen
on comparing the two versions of the close
of the second stanza, 1851 edition:—
V hose nest is in blie pine-tops;
$ nil th V, 8116 were jealous as the dove 1
full of all the wildness of the woodland creatures,
Happy in herself is the maiden that I love.
1878 edition:—
Shv as the squirrel which leaps among the pine-tops
ay ' varci a f the . swallow overhead at set of sun,’
HardTJ iffj s h , ard t 0 and conquer, ’
” ar< won Ut £ )or V the winning were she
Rossetti, his brother tells us, “spared no
alter pains in clarifying and perfecting”;
aria almost everything he retouched he im-
proved. Cook quotes the well-known in-
stance in the Blessed Damozel” (one stanza
ot which underwent at least five drastic re-
constructions), which appeared thus in the
Germ .-
The blessed damozel leaned out
From the gold bar of Heaven;
tier blue grave eyes were deeper much
lhan a deep water, even. ’
In 1870, 20 years later, the last two lines
became
Her eyes were deeper than the depth
Ot waters stilled at even.
A striking illustration of Rossetti’s trium-
phant taste in revision, not mentioned by
Cook, occurs in one of his finest sonnets.
Tor a Venetian Pastoral by Giorgione”
written when he was 21, in which “side”
displaces the unlovely word “flesh.”
Wordsworth must be dismissed somewhat
cavalierly, witli the general statement that
ms second thoughts frequently manifest
the moralist rather than the poet, to the
no small detriment of the verse’s beauty
Such examples as we possess of Iveats’s re-
vising are extremely instructive, tempting
the critic to linger longer perhaps at his
feet than at any other poet’s. By the sub-
stitution of “magic” for “the wide” and
of “perilous” for “keyless” a whole new
world of enchantment came into being in
the exquisite passage in the “Ode to a
Nightingale”:— -
. T , he same tha t oft-times hath
Charmed n ' a gie casements, opening on the foam
Of perilous seas, in faery lands forlorn.
lhe present version seems so inevitably
right, and so much an intimate part of each
one of us that it is hard to believe it had
a less magic predecessor. Surely the worth
of this one instance alone is almost suffi-
cient to make us feel that, among the poets,
at any rate,, second thoughts are best, and
better than best, being perfect.
RICHARD MEREDITH.
Lawson’s West
“N.E.H.’s” remarks (R.P. 12/12/’2B
about my remarks concerning Henry Law
sons bitter remarks on the matter of th
Lush are not convincing. I would hav<
quoted many more of Lawson’s disparage
ments of the Bush if space had been avail
able. He spoke of it in a hostile spiri
when the drought was on, and if one goe
through a collection of verses which cove
almost all his working life, he seemed to
hnd it mostly on. Lawson very occasion
ally struck a less sorrowful note by re
maiking what a different country it woulc
be it it had more water, but even then he
didn t talk much of the real drought coun
try. I knew, of course, that in “Pigeon
hoes the poet was, as “N.E.H.” says, “de
scribing the impressions of a young girl,’
■~Ut A , re * s no reason w'hy a young gir
shouldn’t have accurate impressions anc
tell the truth, especially if she was of grea'
stature, addicted to wearing stout boots
a brown suit, and bore the front name
ot Henry. I knew that girl well.
Australia has an unusually large popula-
tion of devoted sons and daughters who
are prepared to swear hard-very hard—to
the beauties and resources (awaiting de-
velopment, of course) which belong to'their
mother land. And it seems to have an
unusually small supply who are ready to
do a bit of hard work for the common
mother without charging the bill up to
loans on a liberal scale, and leaving the
burden to Posterity. For instance, the
latest idea is to dam the Lachlan at a loan
cost- of £2,000,000 and a little more, and
tnus benefit in a mild way a million acres
(say, 1563 square miles) of land at £2 of
foreign debt- per acre, and settle, if the
r c ™? n out right, 700 families at
£3OOO of foreign debt per family. The Bush
may be a great deal more beautiful than
A *°°“i but the cost of beautifying it is
dashed high. If Henry Lawson had had
a passion for economics he might have
written some more Bush literature of an
interesting sort.
J.E.
College of Surgeons
“Quack” chose ah auspicious season to
praise the newly-established Australian
College of Surgeons (R.P. 12/12/*2B) par-
ticularly auspicious, since it is about that
time the medical schools of our universi-
ties bestow diplomas of efficiency on gradu-
ates who, according to “Quack,” are poten-
tial mutilators of their fellow-citizens
Cither the august professorial body take
money under false pretences when it awards
the degree of Master of Surgery to success-
lul graduates, or said graduates have be-
come sickbed o’er with the pale cast o
thought’ in their efforts to secure what i
but a diplomatic gold-brick. For “Quack’
would have it that the say-so of the Aus-
tralian College of Surgeons should be the
°n!y “guide to the community” of a doc-
tor s ability to tinker with its insides. Wh\
this claim on behalf of a tyrannic and would-
be-tyrannical new body? Has Australian
£ X £ e £ ence shown that holders of othei
* j degrees have alone been capable
ot doing good work with the knife? Many
men not sporting such London- or Edin-
bui gh-bestowed letters on their brass-plates
have removed tonsils or appendices with
skil and dexterity, and will continue so
to do.
The effort to make surgery the work of
a close corporation smacks'of “big busi-
ness,” and reveals the type of mind which
considers grouping to be the summum bonum
of human enterprise. This group-mania is a
disease of the age from which scientific men
should be immune if they stopped to con-
sider that the best work in that field has
been done by lone individuals—not coteries
of self-boosting professional bumbles. It
is not on record that Lister. Jenner, John
Hunter, John Murphy, the Mayo brothers,
(Continued on page 5.)


•tTruth in Advertisingthe basis of sound merchandising methods. 24 OCT, 19!
Agricultural Implements and Separators
Obtainable only at
Anthony Horderns
Wiard Road Contractors'
Ploughs £ls|7|6
The XT66 PLOUGH is built with extra heavy construction and reinforcements throughout, and is
intended for heavy contractors’ work where great strength is necessary. Four or more horses are
used. The points and mouldboards are specially designed for digging and loosening the hardest
clay, gravel and rocky ground. The beams are made of charcoal, iron or steel, extra heavy. The
handles are made wholly of steel, well braced. Used with great success for ploughing out rabbit-
burrows. Weight, 2501 b. Prices £ll/10/-, £l5/2/6
Extra steel shares • 36/-
Price, £2/10/-
No. 16 SINGLE-WHEEL HOE.— The No. 16 is
lighter to handle than the double-wheel hoe.
and the equipment enables the gardener to give
deep and shallow cultivation, open and close
furrows, hill-up plants, etc. This enables you
to save time and labor, and do a great variety of
work. These hoes will serve with satisfaction
long after their cost is forgotten. Equipment:
Large garden plough, pair of 6in. hoes, three
steel cultivator teeth, one three-tooth and one
five-tooth rake, leaf-lifter. Price .... £2/10/-
> >•
No. 25 HILL AND DRILL SEEDER.— The No.
25 plants all vegetable seeds like the No. 4,
but includes the double- gis well as the single-
wheel hoe, enabling the gardener to straddle the
rows until the plants are 20 inches high, cul-
tivating both i ides at the one time. Equipment
includes pair of garden ploughs, four steel cul-
tivator teeth, one pair of 6in. hoes and leaf-
lifter. Price £5/17/6
No 11 DOUBLE- AND SINGLE-WHEEL HOE.
The No. I I is a very complete tool for the
home- or market-gardener. The 6in. and 4Jin.
hoes are the greatest weed-killers known; the
cultivator teeth give thorough cultivation;
ploughs are used for opening and closing fur-
rows, hilling up plants, etc. As with the double-
wheel hoe, the gardener can straddle the row
until the plants are 20 inches high, cultivating
both sides at one time. Equipment: Pair of 6in.
hoes, pair of hoes, four steel cultivator
teeth, pair of ploughs, three-tooth and five-tooth
rakes, pair of leaf-lifters. Price .... £3/15/-
as
XTSSZ>
No. 8 HORSE HOE AND CULTIVATOR COM-
BINED. The Planet Junior, No. 8, Horse Hoe
and Cultivator is one of the most valuable time-
and labor-saving tools available for the use of
the farmer. Has a steel wheel that does not
clog; a frame that is longer and higher than
others; steel standards that are so attached as
to both brace the cultivator and withstand
strain; levers that operate quickly and easily;
a deep regulator. Equipment: Four 4in. x Bin.
cultivator steels, one 4in. x Biii. cultivator steel,
two 6in. hillers, one 7in. shovel. Price, £5/2/6
Dept.—Fourth Floor. Free delivery in City and Suburbs only.
The “Household”
Cream Separator
THE “HOUSEHOLD” CREAM SEPA-
RATOR is simple, strong, efficient,
durable and low in price. This machine
has been designed to meet a long-felt
want, and to cater for those who have
only a few cows and to provide them with
a thoroughly good separator (not a toy)
at a reasonable figure one which will
quickly separate all cream, is no trouble
to clean and turn, is strongly built, and
will not easily get out of order.
Price £4/17/6
The “Horderma”
Cream Separator
■
1*
c/Mam
\ _j
In your selection of a CREAM SEPA-
RATOR there are certain basic principles
that every thoughtful buyer should con-
sider. First, its perfection in saving all
cream, leaving it sweet and clean to
command the highest market price;
second, simplicity of construction; third,
its ease of operation; fourth, the quality
of material and workmanship therein. On
the basis of fundamental principles we
place the “Hordernia” Separator on the
market for your comparison.
“Hordernia” No. 10.—Skimming capacity,
15 gallons per hour. Price .... £5/17/6
“Hordernia” No. 11.—Skimming capacity,
22 gallons per hour. Price .... £7/2/6
“Hordernia” No. 12, with the milk vat
set on a special bracket.—Skimming
capacity, 30, gallons per hour.
Price £9/12/6
Dept.—Fourth Floor. Free delivery in
City and Suburbs only.
You may secure any of your needs on our
in convenient instalments to suit yourself,
interest charged.
Deposit-Purchase System at cash price. Simply leave a small deposit, and pay the balance
When final payment has been made the goods are delivered in the usual way. No
Anthony Horderns’
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O .


ot
1
it m e
ipigslejp
lpuslcp Public
BROADLY speaking, the measure of any
I man s success is the size of the public
behind him.
He grows as his public grows—as his acts
are approved in increasing volume bv an
increasing public.
These few words tell almost all there is to
the Chrysler story—or give, at any rate, the
root-reason why Chrysler looms large on
the motor car horizon* Chrysler is present-
ing at this moment a group of cars sparkling
and shining with newness of performance
and appearance—cars which have again
captivated their public*
These brilliant new Chrysler cars have been
in process of creation for two years—they
will exert their influence upon the design of
all other motor cars for several years to come*
Chrysler has never halted or
hesitated, because Chrysler is free
and has no obligations to anyone
but its own public—no limit except the
limit of its own creative powers, its own
energy and enthusiasm, its own faith in the
boundless resources of the nation*
Chrysler quite frankly confesses its inten-
tion to try to surpass other cars and other
manufacturers—quite frankly admits an en-
thusiastic ambition for continued leadership
in value giving-quite frankly intends to
leave nothing undone to earn and deserve
and hold the greatest motor car public in
all the world*
This, it seems to the Chrysler management,
is the urgent need of every manufacturing
institution which aspires to satisfy a swift-
moving public— to realise that it does move,
that yesterday is dead, that laurels wither,
that today is gloriously alive, that
tomorrow calls clamourously for
greater and greater endeavour*
ë
NSW ■ J larl T , F v' LlA * ND NEW ZEALAN D DISTRIBUTORS,
vie Colons r te : Ud -’ GrenvilU House ’ Willi * m Street, Sydney, ,
Old- Wdrd M , r Py :’ V L > Chrysler House > C ° lli »* Street, Melbourne.
Sth"Z?t nT r o L j7 ted ’ Wickh ™ Str “*> »riskene.
West Aus't °w T ll Rod i a Mot r Ud ” Flinders Street, Adelaide.
Tas ■ nZr 'Z’ Attwood > 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
NZ- ToJJ mT 2* Ud - 162 CoU ™ Street, Hobart.
■ T ° dd Motor Colony, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington.


This Pump Lifts 200 Feet
from Creek to Homestead
This is a fine pump for conveying water a long distance, and .up the valleys
and hills from creek or river to homestead.
The “BILLABONG”
Improved Double-acting Piston Pump
FOR ELEVATIONS UP TO 200 FEET.
The “Billabong” Double-acting Piston Pump is made at our own works. Only
expert workmanship and good-quality materials enter into its construction.
It is specially adapted to meet the demand for a medium-priced power pump
to be operated by Kerosene or Petrol engines, or other belt-power. Here
are some details: —
324-330
PITT ST.,
SYDNEY
JOHN! DANKS &SON PTY. LTD.
391-403
BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE
Herbert Maitland or Alexander MacCor-
mick owed their skill to the imprimatur
bestowed upon them by any ring of medi-
cal practitioners. No one is going to say
that an Australian College of Surgeons is
anathema, nor, on the other hand, should
he or she lay hand to heart and vouch that
such a body must contain “the cream of
Australian and Maoriland surgeons.”
Many a discriminating man of ability
would be deterred from joining if for no
other reason than the multiplicity of the
alleged objects of the College—a few of
which were set forth by “Quack.” We can,
of course, all understand that “an im-
portant part of the work of the College
will be to support the introduction of ‘pay-
ing’ or ‘intermediate’ beds into public hos-
pitals.” A most practical measure this —
the making of two fees grow where but one
(or none) grew before! More power to the
College’s joint elbow! But, why cloud such
a paying proposition with fluffy talk about
public weal, higher standards —hospital and
ethical—and high-brow post-graduate
courses? Advertisement and more fees go
well together, and the one may bring the
other if only “the lesser breeds without the
law” can be sufficiently damned in the
public esteem and public press. But can
they? To some of us it would appear that
many good Australians are full to the neck
of this being dictated to by groups. A
plethora of governments, associations, fed-
erations, commissions, unions and a thou-
sand and other examples of such oft-times
unholy brews is producing a salutary
nausea in the man in the street, and sooner
than may be expected a beneficial emesis
may heave this clique-forming parasite in
the'body politic into oblivion. For to-day
most citizens are learning that groups pass
too quickly from use through misuse to
abuse, and commonsense is returning to any
community which recognises that “a man’s
a man for a’ that.” “Quack” and his cronies
may yet be called upon to themselves
accept the hypercritical commiserations of
“consulting physicians who see almost every
day the sequels of ill-balanced surgical
judgment and bad operating” upon the sup-,
posed credulity of a discriminating demo-
cracy.
S.N.R.
An Australian Classic
It is not too much to say that Up the
Country, by Brent of Bin Bin (Black-
wood; Robertson and Mullens), is in the
running to be an Australian classic. Who
Brent of Bin Bin is nobody appears to
know. The booksellers are unable to say;
they broadcast an appeal from 3LO Mel-
bourne for information without receiving
a solitary reply. It is distinctly intriguing.
Brent is one of those few authors whom a
reviewer, usually utterly cynical about the
personality that lies behind a book, would
like to know something about.
He gives his address as S 9, Reading
Room, British Museum, but nobody will
believe that his smiling knowledge of Aus-
tralian country folk, dating from “the great-
est flood ever seen by white men in the
Yarrabongo,” circa 1836, to the “Back to
800 l 800 l Week,” 1926, was gained study-
ing books in London fog. Brent may not
have seen that flood, but that he got the
story from the lips of elders who were there
is pretty certain. The book can hardly be
described as a novel, though it contains a?
hero; also a heroine, whose drowning in
the Mungee Fish Pool was the first dis-
appearance of a character in fiction which
enveloped present writer in a really poig-
nant sense of personal loss. Although his
sphere is entirely different, Brent’s method
of narration can be compared only to
Hardy’s in “The Dynasts.” A hundred
characters crowd upon the stage; from cover
to cover nearly a century transpires; the
scene shifts from Gundagai to Sydney and
back to Yass and Michelago, and a picture of
pioneering days is presented which leads
to a better understanding of the Red Heart
of Australia than a lorryload of year-books
and all the histories penned.
There is no drought in “Up the Coun-
try.” In this book Australia’s countenance
beams, and there is an ever-present sound
of running streams. The picture is true-
just as true as the desert songs of the in-
numerable writers who have a passion for
any part, of Australia so long as it is inside
the six-inch rainbelt. The present writer
was in Brent’s country a month ago,
and the cattle were still standing, belly-
deep, in grass, and the “shrub-draped sing-
ing rivers, beautiful as Paradise,” were still
running, and the distant ranges were still
hand-feeding them with snow.
Nor was birth-control known in Brent’s
Australia, though the noble Mrs. Mazere,
who managed her husband and his station
while bearing him children every year,
sometimes was “inclined to think that God
had no practical knowledge of birth as
experienced by women, and that had He
given birth to His Son Himself, instead of
imposing the task upon a woman, it might
have resulted in fundamental reforms”;
but this “she suppressed as blasphemy in-
stigated by the Devil.”
Brent has no style, as style is understood
in the literary cliques, but when he is up-
lifted by his theme his prose sings. Here
is a description of a marriage night:—
Here under the lee of granite rocks like a medieval
castle in ruins, Philip Mazere pitched his bridal tent.
It was milk-white, and placed between two stately
saplings standing like pages to the forest monarchs
about them. For a couch he chopped springy
boughs of the ti-tree, white with its starry bloom like
a cascade of fine lace in a bridal veil, putting among
it some of the aromatic senna. The saddle seats
were placed for pillows, and then were spread the
brave red blankets of the pioneers.
Some of the tenderest writing in Austra-
lian literature goes to the portrait of Emily,
the quenching of whose naked virgin
beauty in the Mungee Fish Pool has a
pathos almost unendurable in its simple
strength. At the conclusion of his final
chapter Brent of Bin Bin, instead of the
conventional “Finis,” writes “Interval,”
which suggests that he has more to say.
Books Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a com-
mittee of judges nominated by the Associ-
ated Booksellers of Australia and New
Zealand:—
General Literature : From Paris to Locarno,
by F. Alexander; Adventures of an African
Slaver, by Captain Theodore Canot; My
Life, by Isadora Duncan; The Call of the
Veld, by Leonard Flemming; Why Not Grow
Young? by Robert Service; Builders and
Pioneers of Australia, by A. W. Jose; The
Romance of Modern Travel, by N. I. David-
son.
Boohs of Literary Merit : The Spider Boy,
by Carl van Vechten ; Youth Rides Out, by
Beatrice K. Seymour; The Promised Land,
by Gilbert Parker; The History of Egg
Pandervil, by Gerald Bullett.
Boohs for Popular Reading: The
Flutes of Shanghai, by Louise Jordan Milne ;
Old Pybus, by Warwick Deeping; Joshua’s
Vision, by William J. Locke; The Mas-
queraders," by Georgette Heyer; Youth
Rides Out, by Beatrice K. Seymour; Ber-
rington, by Sir Edward Parry; The Promised
Land, by Gilbert Parker; Australian Short
Stories, by George Mackaness; Gotobedde
Lane, lay Marion Bower; The Spider Boy,
by Carl van Vechten; Pleasant Jim, by
Max Brand; The Happy Vagabond, by
Margaret Fane and Hilary Lofting.
A Satchel of Books.
The Call of the Veld, by Leonard Flem-
ming (Heinemann). The author is an Aus-
tralian who left his native land at 10 years
of age and later found himself a farm pupil
in South Africa'. The close of the war in
1903 saw him with a thousand acres of bare,
treeless veld in the Orange River Colony.
His plant was an old Scotch cart and a few
tools, with a small single plough, some cattle
and sheep, a couple of ponies, a Kaffir and a
“piccaninh” His capital was £7. How, in
the space of 20 years, he turned the barren
area into a well-watered, fertile farm, work-
ing with no assistance save from Kaffirs,
is told in a captivatingly straightforward
and unaffected fashion. He turned to more
than money-making, too. Little by little,
as his purse permitted, he covered the naked-
ness of his demesne with trees, some of
them from South African, some from Aus-
tralian nurseries. He seems to have felt it
fitting that he who, as a child on a N.S.W.
sheep station, had helped to put to death so
many gracious trees by ringbarking, should
help to make up the natural deficiencies of
his adopted country by endowing it with
the charm of green things growing that it
had never known before.
The Return to Laissez Faire, by Ernest J 1
P. Benn (Benn). Riding that sound old war
horse Logic (by Commonsense out of Fact),
and tilting the lance Arithmetic, this knight
of the Court of King George here attacks
Socialism, Collectivism and sundry other of the
isms that are threatening the peace of old
England. Briefly, he is an Individualist. He
contends, and gives his reasons for contending,
that everything worth achieving in the world
has been achieved by individual effort; that
Governments can merely ensure something’s
not being done; and that England, in entrust-
ing its housing, its health and its everything
to bureaucratic bodies created by Parliaments,
is merely shirking. He pleads for an England
that will scorn the helpless, dependent,
pauper-like frame of mind that present-day
politics have created. No injustice, he says,
was ever so complete or so devastating as
that which has associated Socialism with
morality and Capitalism with the immoral.
What could be more immoral, more disastrous,
more devilish in all its implications and results than
the limitation of human effort that is inseparable
from Socialism? What, indeed, can be more degrad-
ing than the notions of control which are the bed-
rock of Socialism? Capitalism, which consists in
the serving of the desires of others, has been per-
verted by false argument, and Socialism, which con-
sists in subjugating and controlling the desires of
others, has been twisted into a worthy ideal.
England is the definite country of this book,
but its main theme, the cramping of indi-
vidual effort by individuals who act under
the altruistic urge of the money they are
getting out of it, applies ten times more
positively to Australia. It would be ridi-
culous to suggest that Socialists should read
this book; but it can be commended to Aus-
tralians.
The General’s Ring, by Selma Lagerlof
(T. Werner Laurie). Though it is divided
into chapters and spreads over 187 small
pages, this latest work of the famous Swedish
authoress belongs to the short story rather
than the novel family of fiction. Its action
covers generations in time, and its leading
characters are to be numbered by the dozen,
changing from chapter to chapter as the
valuable ring stolen from the hand of the
dead general passes on with fateful results
from one to another; but in essence it is a
short story, and a very fine one. It is
also a ghost story, but its ghost, unlike the
kind which, vide Edgar Wallace, turns out
to be a butler, remains a ghost. Paradoxical
as it may seem in the circumstances, the
story is pure realism—that simple, earthy
realism that comes from Northern Europe
and from nowhere else, as if only there
was life still primitive, unsophisticated,
intimate with the soil and with nature.
Selma Lagerlof, who had a 70th birthday a
few weeks ago, carried off the Nobel prize
for literature in 1909 1 . Her career is in a
way a justification for the encouragement
of literature per medium of such competi-
tions as those being conducted by The
Bulletin, for she began it by winning such
a prize in 1890 with some chapters of her
“Gosta Berling’s Saga.”
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communication*
Name and address must appear on the US. No liability is undertaken re
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
A.E. over M.M.: Intentions good; but
there’s nothing less than a full-tooth among your
ideas... .S.H.: Far too slight P.H.: Glad you
liked it, even though it did stir you to bad verse....
L.J.: Faint little thing. .. .M.H.: “Do Men Forget?”
There are things they’d like t 0... .Awanui: “Mother”
doesn’t rhyme with “cover” —at least, not after
you’re three... .R.S.: We don’t like Yankee slang.
The thing’s hopeless, anyway.... J.M.G.: Sticky.
.... E.R.: Sorry, but your latest isn’t even in the
“try-again” class.... Toogong: Not bad of its kind.
Kind dreadful... . Sufur: The puzzle in your
“Swaggie” verse is to find the swaggie.
. ...W.C.: You keep a remarkably even aver-
age away down there... .T.E.J.J.: You make a
little noise, but that’s about a11....G.H.: Not up.
... ..P. Pan: “Evening Star” gone down.... Flo: In
spite of “Poem for the Season” we had a happy
Christmas... .A.G.J.: “The pools grew stagnant at
his fierce alarms” would ruin almost anything....
J.H.: A kindly criticism ? Well, your handwriting
is beautiful... .G.D.: Anyone who uses “my friends”
as often as you do takes a heap for granted....
C.L.: You employ a lot of string to tie up that one
small thought.... Covot: “The* Disillusioned Spirit”
very material A.K.M.: Your line “And swell my
lungs amain” reminded us painfully of the cornet-
blower next d00r... .A.S.: Couldn’t share your
enthusiasm for Cuthbert. ... Oumil: “But the breast
of the river is burning.” Ditto verse... .L. 0.: Some-
times we wish Keats had died even younger. And
not only Keats. .. .Doc.: “Stands poised on the
deck, somewhat of a wreck, directing an army in
full flight.” Your muse needs a draught, Doctor.
. ...E.W.D.: You can’t mix prose and verse here.
1...80b5: “Bill” will find his way home this time,
. ...J.S.: Simile honors certificate for “Pregnant as
a devil’s yell” A.E.F.: Can’t run a guessing
competition... .Tokainabul: Too slight. .. .W.J.McD.:
Market quotation for monkey-gland stories, two a
penny.... Skeeta: Creditable if you are as young as
you say... .Cinquefoil: Nature-study, caprice or
delirium?. .. .Jonathan: Run out on C sharp
major... .C.M.M.: Your Garden of Eden does
sharp major. .. .C.M.M. : Your Garden of Eden does
not tempt.,.. .P.M.: Ghost doesn’t walk for your
theatrical trifle R.R.: Blown out G.M.S.: There
are limits of probability even in a love story. You
exceed them F. 0.: “The social touch” —too much
of it just n0w.... Feddup : Eight lines, then: —
Of all the plagues that bore us
And make us feel accurst,
The cricket-writer chorus
Is easily the worst.
I wish some sturdy miners
Would grab the whole damn craft
Of skiters and of whiners
And chuck ’em down a shaft.
.... His N.: He has published two volumes of verse:
“Voices of the North” and “Echoes of Hellas.”
He is a very good statistician. .. .Ungava: Can only
give 1921 census figures: Canada: 3,389,636 R.C.’s,
1,409,407 Presbyterians, 1,407,994 Anglicans and
1,159,458 Methodists. Newfoundland: 86,576 R.C.’s,
84,665 Anglicans, 74,205 Methodists, 1876 Presby-
terians.... R.N.: There are scores of Deakins in
Sydney alone. You’ll have to advertise T.J.H.:
Treatment miles better than the theme... .J.8.C.:
You “light another cigarette” after every five lines.
What’s b0gey7....P.5.: Your verse to the New
Year quenched all our optimism 0.P.: V erse
ginning “The day in dreary languor dies is now
also defunct. .. .H.M.D.: Only original work, please.
M.R.: As suggested, we tried it on the editors
of all our papers. The “Wild Cat” chap took the
award for hostility.... 8.C.: “Adelaide” stirs you.
Life in the Bush is rfar better
Than the sights in the city by far.
Though the sights in the city may glitter
Like a bright shining star.
’Twas God who made the Bush land
As well as all other sights
And it is hard to understand
Why the majority chase the city lights.
J.A.P.: The first six Vic. Premiers under respon-
sible government: William Clark Haines, Nov. 28,
1855, to March 11, 1857 ; John O’Shanassy, to Apri 1
29, 1857 ; W. C. Haines, to March 10, 1858 ; John
O’Shanassy, to October 27, 1859 ; William Nicholson,
to NoV. 26, 1860 ; Richard Ileales, to Nov. 14, 1861.
Tapu: Alfred Hill was born in Melbourne
C.D.G.: All you need is v something to write about.
J.P.N.: Exit Mulligan Etaples: Of 25,444 lads
examined for training in the Citizen Forces, 7862
(31 p.c.) were pronounced unfit. Defective vision
accounted for 6 p.c. of rejections, heart diseases for
5 p.c. and bad teeth for 4 p.c.; the rest were
below the height or chest standards L.G.: Pretty
well done; but we try to avoid that type of story as
likely to be harmful Star: Glad to meet you.
We first heard about your tinkle-tinkle long ago,
and now we’ve heard you do it... .S.Y.S.: If you
can’t cure yourself of wandering, you’ll have to put
hobbles on yourself.... Callowie: Never mind that;
it was made clear surely that we wanted to hear
from farmers, not professors of literature. . . .Mac St:
It was very far from embodying the one-vote-one-
value provision. There were 18,937 electors in Wil-
loughby, 18,438 in Auburn, 18,310 in Croydon and
18,092 in Randwick; on the other hand there were
13,2-01 in Ashfield, 13,940 in Corowa, 13,983 in
Sturt and 13,998 in Barwon Ranom: The Sacred
College of Cardinals consists, when complete, of 70
members; according to a recent cabled report there
were seven vacancies. In March, England had two
cardinals, the U.S.A. four and Canada one; no other
English-speaking country was represented
R. : Missed by a hairbreadth Jaswell:
Illustrates “a little knowledge is a dangerous thing.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.8.P.: You’ll have to study hard before you can
get out of the rut 8.H.: Hopelessly incorrect.
. ...A.A.K.: Overcrowded with lines... .D.C.: Its
originality is not disputed; the “humor” i 5.....
S. : Paper the fowlhouse with them... .L.8.W.:
Sketch too imitative ; gag lifeless.... L.F.: A poor
drawing, and there was no necessity for the border.
E.M.M.: Fashion-plate figures and stilted joke.
. ...W.W.: You over-emphasise non-essentials....
J.C.: Don’t bother experimenting with stipple tints
until you’re able to draw... .0.H.D.: All out of
proportion. .. .E.8.W.: Silhouette not required....
A.T.: Get some knowledge of anatomy.


m-
-9
V
a
m
m ■
**
m
;
V;-
m
• .r:,-■:
i
■
mm
;iS
IllI!
&
m?l* ■ wßfpri ;“';•/■• :
1 - :
,


The Bulletin
Vol. 50. —No. 2551.
January 2, 1929.
THE 1929th ROUND BEGINS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
SH George Street, Sydney.
Victoria: IV/-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to ant address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 J/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas ;• 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies.—Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: ioz. to 10oz., lid. ;
each additional 1,0 z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: J/Oz. or part thereoj,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES . . 2, 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . . . 5
THE FRONT PAGE 7
EDITORIAL 8 , 9
“Fat” Is Out of Date 8
Queensland’s Sugar Business .. 8
Eighteen Months for Rape! .. 8
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 9
POLITICS (with drawing by Mick Paul).! in
SOCIETY (with drawings)
PERSONAL ;; " ’
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS . . - ‘ 14 ‘ 16
National Mutual Life
British Aus. Tobacco Co .14
Carlton Breweries .. 14
Myer Emporium (S.A.) 14 Ki
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD ’ 17
POVERTY POINT .. " " l 7
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, .etc.) ” !! 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 19. 20
Drawing by Alf Vincent .19
Prizes for Farmers .. .. .. 22
MAN ON THE LAND 22 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT . . " 26
SMOKE-OH “ 28
“Bracken” 30, 49, 50
PEN AND PICTURE 3:5
THE NEW “TALKIES” 33
Sporting (illustrated) .. ..35, 37, 39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 40
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 42
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP . . . . 43
COMPLETE STORY—
“His Little Corner”
By Randolph Bedford . . . . . . 44, 47
VERSE 47, 50
zlleiZoz
Wednesday, January 2, 1029.
“FAT” IS OUT OF DATE.
There have been countries and periods
in which it has paid to grind down sections
of the community. Mostly in the very
dark ages. The Hyksos seem to have found
ancient Egypt remunerative for a time, and
the Vandals who swept out of barren Ger-
many into fertile Spain in the fifth century
enjoyed temporary prosperity. But with
every advance made by civilisation it has
become clearer that a policy of oppression—
class or national—is suicide.
The British Empire has been developing
>n this theory for the past 25 years at least.
The old conception of a colony \vas like the
old conception of labor; the governing
classes regarded it as something to exploit.
Not till the S’African War was it realised
fully that dependencies cannot be blud-
geoned into remunerativeness. The British
?ave the Boers self-government as a busi-
ness proposition, and it has paid. The
mines could not have . been developed
economically if the inhabitants of the
country which contained them had not
been allowed to develop in a manner that
suited their culture and satisfied their self-
respect. Australia is a Commonwealth, exer-
cising the functions of an independent
nation, for a similar reason. The stronger
and more united this country becomes—
the more prosperous, and, hence, the more
independent—the better it must be for Big
Business in the United Kingdom, and, for
that matter, elsewhere. Only one thing
could turn Australia or M.L., S. Africa or
Canada, from an Imperial asset into a lia-
bility, and that is the appearance of a Brit-
ish Government which set out to exploit it
as “Fat,” according to the party propaganda
of Australian Labor, is trying to exploit the
local worker.
It was the case of Germany that first
awakened the whole thinking world to this
now obvious truth. During the war all the
belligerent nations entertained high hopes
of being able to enrich themselves, later
on, at the expense of their defeated enemies.
They talked of their foes as our Bolshevik
orators talk of the Bank of N. S. Wales.
Germany lost, and the attempt to make
her pay for her crimes and alleged crimes
against humanity was begun under the most
favorable auspices, seeing that she was com-
pletely helpless. It was discovered—practi-
cally at once by British financiers, after
about a year by the hate- and fear-blinded
French—that the only way to make her pay
was to make her strong. After a struggle
which had brought death and bankruptcy
to millions, the only thing the world could
do to the chief offender was to help her to
build up her ruined trade and industry. In
other words, re-establish her capitalism.
Russia tried to do without this mythical
curse for four years after 1917. Then Lenin,
the realist, abandoned his original principles,
and introduced the New Economic Policy
—the N.E.P.—and the present Soviet Gov-
ernment is carrying that step to its logical
conclusion. Trotsky is in exile because he
is a diehard—an anti-capitalist in a country
which has come to realise that, unless it
collaborates in business with Harriman and
other millionaire American and British syn-
dicates, the people whom it governs will
starve.
Co-operation is king to-day, not class-
consciousness. A sane capitalist has no wish
to grind down the workers or enslave them,
if for no more elevated reason than that
there is no money in it. A flourishing busi-
ness, like a flourishing empire, has to have
the largest possible measure of contentment.
And it is such well-run businesses—known
collectively as Capitalism—which give the
worker every amenity he enjo3's, from food
and clothes to picture-shows and race-meet-
ings. Labor should stop snarling at an insti-
tution which. no one can do without but
a few primitive jungle tribes, and turn to
its arguable grievances..
THE INTERESTS OF THE UNION.
The smellers-out of witchcraft, treason and
heresy have wakened up in the, Newcastle
(N.S.W.) district, word having gone forth
that some of the ironworkers at Walsh
Island are receiving bonuses for extra-good
work. It isn’t likely that the offenders are
numerous, for the possible penalty is a
cruel and horrible one. It extends to the
loss of opportunity to earn a living for the
excommunicated person or his wife and
children.
The Walsh Island matter, or horror, was
put plainly in the press:—
“Members who object to the alleged prac-
tice claim that the Australian ballot ot the
union, taken shortly after the strike at the
island early in the year, decided once and
for all that the bonus system is opposed to
the interests of the union.”
The beautiful vagueness of that remark
about “the interests of the union” calls for
inquiry. The bonus wouldn’t damage the
interests of the unionists who received it.
To say that they and their dependants
would be injured by a little more money
in this dull time is ludicrous. And it cer-
tainly wouldn’t be opposed to the interests
of the country. If Australia contrived to
make a lot more of the iron goods it needs
and didn’t send so much money away to pay
other people big wages for making them,
there would be that much more available to
pay wages to unionists here, provided union
bosses didn’t annex all the surplus in fines
and levies.
In 1926-27, the last year for which all-
round Australian statistics are available,
the Commonwealth spent over £51,000,000
on imported metal goods alone. That was
more than twice the value of its entire pro-
duction of minerals, including gold, silver,
lead, tin, copper and (larger than all the
rest combined) coal. The Commonwealth
is greatly boosted as a rich land with a
great output of agricultural products, and
its does supply a fair quantity. Yet in
1926-27 the total exports of Australian agri-
cultural produce were £18,000,000 less, and
its exports of agricultural and mineral pro-
ducts combined were £9,000,000 less, than
the sum it paid to foreigners for imported
metal manufactures alone. The Common-
wealth may have some status as a producer
and seller of primary products; but there is
something wrong when it fails to send away
enough vegetable and mineral goods to
cover its bill for foreign vehicles and sauce-
pans and sewing-machines and stoves and
other metal manufactures.
Crude agitators, many of them foreign
and all of them ignorant, have wonderful
luck in persuading the credulous Australian
that he shouldn’t attempt to save for himself
the £51.000,000 or so that he spends on
foreign metal articles. To do so, it is ex-
plained, would involve the deadly sin of
“speeding up,” and the sinfulness of that,
like the sinfulness of parricide, is treated
as self-evident. Yet no one explains how
a nation which fails to produce enough to
cover its expenses, and is consequently a
humble and chronic cadger for loans at the
rich capitalist’s gate, can hope to get on to
a manly and independent footing unless it
speeds up. The effort to do more and
better work, and thus compete more strenu-
ously with the foreigner and bring more
employment to Australia, is liable to be
encouraged by the bonus system, but it is
laid down that no worker should receive
more than the worst lest he be tempted to
do better than the worst.
If this is in “the interests of the union”
it isn’t in the interests of the unionists, or
of their children, who are being pawned
body and soul to foreign moneylenders as
the price of their fathers’ slackness, or of
the slackness of the country in general.
But it may be in the interests of a para-
sitic class which lives on unionism, as tend-
ing to maintain their overgrown authority.
SUBSIDISING INEFFICIENCY.
There is some very frank writing in the
annual report of the Queensland Bureau
of Sugar Experiment Stations, recently pre-
sented to the State Parliament, and it is
very unpleasant reading for good Australians
who, while believing that the sugar indus-
try must be preserved and willing to pay a
fair price for its preservation, would like to
think they are subsidising efficiency. On
the other hand, the enemies of the indus-
try will be delighted.
The bureau has an excellent custom of
sending promising young men abroad for
further study. One of these research
scholars, H. W. Kerr, recently returned
from the U.S.A., where he acquired a
doctor’s degree at Wisconsin Uni., to take
up the position of soils chemist. On his
way back he spent two months in Java, and
about the same time in Hawaii. He reports
that, “in contradistinction to Queensland,
the crop yields per acre are constantly on
the increase in these countries,” thanks
mainly to scientific methods. Indeed, “while
the yield of sugar per acre in Java 40
years ago was about equal to that of
Queensland to-day (two tons of sugar per
acre), intensive cultivation has raised the
sugar tonnage per acre to about three times
that amount,” “Fertilisation,” it seems,
“is carried out on all lands in Java.”
Also there is one experiment station, a
privately-supported concern, which spends
at the rate of £125,000 p.a., and has evolved
a new cane variety, P.O;J. 2878, “the result
of many years of patient endeavor,” which
“has enabled the production of a 3,000,000-
ton crop this year, whereas a large crop for
Java yielded 1,750,000 tons a few years ago.”
The next Java crop will be 95 p.c. P.O.J.
2878.
Turning to the account of Queensland
operations for 1927 and part of 1928, the
reader finds that “only 25 per cent, of our
farmers are using fertilisers.” The positive
statement is made that “the average yield
per acre could be nearly doubled if proper
methods were adopted, and these methods
are constantly being brought before farmers
by the bureau; but the majority only look
to increase of acreage to augment their
crops, which is altogether wrong.” It is
mentioned further that the Lower Burdekin
district possesses “probably the finest sugar
soils in the world, but the irrigation method
practised is both crude and wasteful”; that
“no attempt has been made for many years
to assist the millers by the investigation of
problems arising in manufacture,” though
this, it seems, is to be remedied* and that
“the individual weekly allotment method of
harvesting is most inefficient, and one which
involves serious losses to both grower and
miller.” Moreover, “few reliable field obser-
vations have been recorded,” owing to
“trained pathologists and agriculturists”
being scarce.
When surplus production became embar-
rassing there was much talk of the State
Government restricting planting, but the
returns show that 274,838 acres were culti-
vated in 1927 as against 266,519 acres in
1926, acres crushed being 203,748 in 1927
and 189,312 in 1926. Sixty-eight per cent,
of the 1927 crop sufficed for Australian
needs, the net price of raw sugar being
£26 10s. per ton; 152,384 tons were exported
for a net return of £l2 2s. 6d. per ton, and
it is reckoned that 1928 exports will reach
185,000 tons. Obviously definite limits will
have to be set to the over-production of an
article which has to be sold abroad for less
than half the fixed price in Australia.
And the Bruce-Page Government is
morally bound to point out that bad
farmers have no claim on the Australian
people and that there is a glaring need for
more trained investigators and instructors,
which the McCormack Government must
supply. The Bruce-Page is a party to the
price-fixing agreement, McCormack being
the other party.
MEN—AND GODS.
From Panalokan we came out on the lip
of Batur, the most terrible volcanic land-
scape in the Dutch East Indies. In that
chaos of steaming mist, stinging fumes and
young volcanoes smoking their pipes with
a deceptive air of serenity, the diameter
of the original volcano appeared to be anjr-
thing between 20 miles and infinity. The
old wall dropped almost sheer to a flat
bottom. Out of that desolate floor poked
up two new volcanoes, full of youthful
energy. A large lake, green and vaporous,
filled the right-hand portion of the crater,
its far coast a range of dark blue barren
mountains.
Looking down into that hell’s kitchen it
was hard to believe it was the core of a
small island harboring a million people;
stranger still, there was population even on
the floor of the old crater. The fans of lava
from the new volcanoes all streamed in the
same direction as if intent on a similar
errand of destruction; and following their
course our eyes made out the lineaments
of a village. It resembled a collection of
chips floating on the crest of a wave which
forced it towards the sheer wall on whose
top we stood gazing. We could make our
temples, a pagoda, neat houses set in gardens
and streets laid out as straight as if no
volcano threatened to toss them awry at
any moment.
Our entry into Batur was heralded by
scores of barking curs. The village was near,
solidly built of lava bricks, and well laid
out, but seemed to be quite empty of
people. We could easily have imagined
that it had been abandoned during the last
upheaval and never reoccupied. In the
village square, however, we found where the
inhabitants were collected. The little open
space under the frown of the central volcano
was a scene of throbbing life. To the left
were 20 or 30 children armed with curious
emblems. To the right a tall savage clothed
in a loincloth, his splendid brown skin
gleaming with perspiration, was leaping first
to one side and then to the other, flinging
a long, painted lance in the air, and drop-
ping on his haunches, beginning each move-
ment with a barbaric chant and ending it
with a rigid pose, while some 40 other loin-
clothed savages followed his movements in
almost perfect time.
On the other side of the group a stream
of girls and women kept coming and going
carrying baskets of earth and lava-blocks on
their heads for the making of a new temple.
In small pavilions round the square carpen-
ters, stone-carvers, gilders and masons were
busy. The principal building of the new
temple was nearly completed, brilliant with
red and gold paint and housing two quite
wonderfully-carved garudas, the vehicles of
Vishnu, in blue, white, gold and scarlet
wood.
It was an amazing picture of human
courage born out of delusion. What would
be the cost of it, we asked an intelligent
young craftsman who was gilding the wings
of a bad-tempered-looking dragon. How
could he tell! It was the voluntary contri-
bution of the whole island. The inhabitants
of Baitur paid in labor, the forest on the lip
of the crater supplied the timber and the
destroying lava-stream the stone. Even the
girls with their incantations, and the boys
practising the steps of the sacred dance
assisted. Only the gold paint had to be
obtained from outside, and that was supplied
by rajas concerned about the security of
their districts.
A stout old man carving an image of the
Hindu god Kali told us the story of their
previous successes against the spirit of the
volcano. He showed us where the lava flow
of 1905 had been stopped just outsidq the
village. But the event of 1917 had been
even more spectacular. The stream had
poured over the temple wall and across Ihe
courtyard. The people had fled in the dark-
ness and tumult. When they came back
they found the torrent had stopped right,
at the threshold of the main pagoda. It
still hung there, 17 feet high, like a wave
frozen in the act of breaking.
It was too late to get out of the crater
that night, and the kepala kampong offered
us a bed, and spent the evening pains-
takingly poisoning us with coffee. About
midnight the porringer of Batur began to
shake and slop over, but only slightly, a
mere hint of what it could do when occa-
sion demanded. The boys began their ritual
dance, the women screamed incantations
and the men came out in the square and
shook their magic lances intimidatingly at,
the mountain, which thought better of it
and subsided. We sat on the edge of our
shaking beds and listened to the tumult.
Next morning we made our way along the
flat bottom of the old crater towards Kinta-
mani. After a couple of miles the path
began to ascend steeply. Fine, plump,
straight-backed, bare-bosomed girls, with
proud, defiant eyes, went past us bearing
loads of firewood on their heads that we
would have been hard put to it to lift.
They smiled as they watched us toiling up-
wards bathed from head to boots in per-
spiration.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Eighteen Months for Rape.
The close of the old year provided N. S.
Wales with a remarkable sign of the times.
One Martin Jacobsen, a Woy Woy milk-
man, was jilted by his young woman. Later,
in an unfrequented spot, he knocked her
down and ravished her. At the trial a
doctor said that “the bruises and scratches
which he had found on the girl were con-
sistent with her having been knocked down,
and intimacy having taken place”; and
though the usual defence of consent was set
up, it was nullified by a letter of admission
from the accused. The jury convicted, and
sentence of death was passed. On appeal
the conviction and sentence were upheld.
Jacobsen's friends got to work, and a
curious object-lesson followed in the power
of mass-suggestion. Six hundred and fifty
men, and the same number of women, all
of Woy Woy, signed a petition to the Min-
ister for Justice asking for a remission of
the sentence. It was headed by the victim
and presented by “four leading citizens.”
The jurymen were interviewed by various
Sydney papers, and the remarks of some
of them gave Britain’s ancient Palladium
an extremely bad advertisement. One of
them said “Jacobsen is not the type of man
who habitually commits this sort of
offence”; another said “a sentence of a few
months would meet the case”; and a third,
“Jacobsen should be freed at once.” The
Government hastily considered the matter
and reduced the sentence to 18 months on
the grounds (1) of the prisoner’s previous
good character, (2) of the jury’s recommen-
dation to mercy. And the agitation is to be
proceeded with in the hope “that Cabinet
will make further substantial remission.”
There is more than a chance that it
will succeed, too, Jacobsen, by the simple
process of committing a capital offence,
having achieved the position seemingly of
Woy Woy’s noblest son.
In the midst of this emotional storm it
is up to the Bavin Government to recover
as much of its lost head as possible, and
take stock of the position of the girl—and
of other N. S. Wales girls. No one—not
even the astonishing juryman who thinks
that Jacobsen, not being a habitual offender,
should be set at liberty—denies that


THE TROUBLE-MAKER.
"The Industria! Peace Conforencen, which promoised so well at its first sessions, has thereby gained the ill-will of the Sydney Labor Council, which has called upon the
labor bodies in the other States to have nothing futher to do with it."
McDOUGALL (EMPLOYERS) AND GARDEN (EMPLOYEES): "Good-o! It's fine!"
THE LABOR COUNCIL: "What! Good is it? Then quick-pour this acid over it before any of our fellow taste it!"
this girl was raped. So that, if Jacobsen
is freed it will amount either to an endorse-
ment of his trial story that the girl was a
consenting party (which, in view of her
evidence, the doctor’s original statement,
Jacobsen’s original admission, the verdict
of a jury and the decision of an Appeal
Court, is an abominable slander) or to the
establishment of the principle that 18
months is an adequate penalty for rape.
N. S. Wales has always had more than its
share of Jacobsens; and ravishings, sole and
multiple, have lately been epidemic. The
experience which Jacobsen’s victim undei-
went can still be one of the most dreadful
that a girl may be called on to face, result-
ing often, not only in various appalling
forms of physical injury, but when the in-
evitable defence succeeds, in the rum of
her good name and of all her prospects m
life. If it is established that in any con-'
viction for rape of a first offender of
hitherto decent character the prisoners
friends have only to mobilise a sufficiently
formidable protest to get a commutation
and the imposition of a trivial sentence,
then it is a black outlook for our women
and girl-children.
♦
The Boomsorae Borrower.
That hope' which springs eternal in the
boomsome borrower’s breast now centres,
so far as N. S. Wales is concerned, about
the Wyangala reseuvoir and the bit of
attached railway, to cost two millions raised
in England. According to the most san-
guine Sydney daily it is to add 50 per cent,
to the Ma State’s agricultural area, raise
its wheat harvest from 50 to 100 million
bushels (it was 27 million bushels last year),
and bring “a dense population” to the
Lachlan valley. It will doubtless supply
a considerable amount of much-needed
drinking water, but it is unwise to go into
raptures as if the State had invented a
new Ganges or Irrawaddy.
The Murrumbidgee irrigation work started
over 13 years ago. It represents £8,811,285
of loan expenditure which returns no in-
terest, and the cultivated area of N. S.
Wales hasn’t increased during the 15 years.
Yet the Murrumbidgee, measured by its
volume of water, is equal to seven Lach-
An abundance of things in Australia are
worth doing, and would tend to the great
enrichment of the country, if the work was
done with our own money. But most of
them are blank disaster when loaded to
their full value, or far beyond their full
value, with an interminable mortgage at 5
per cent, cumulative interest.
♦—
Bail.
One of the principles of British justice that
are due for an overhaul is the matter of bail.
An accused person is theoretically regarded
as innocent till he or she is proved guilty,
and may be released on bail, pending trial,
on such conditions as a magistrate, or, on
appeal, a Judge may consider appropriate.
The freedom of the accused is of consider-
able importance in the days preceding the
trial. It gives opportunities of consulting
counsel and enlisting the aid of favorable
witnesses which would be restricted were
the accused in gaol. The refusal of bail is
a rare occurrence, save on capital charge,?,
under British jurisdiction.
The usual rule is that the amount of bail
must be measured by the seriousness of
the charge; which means that if the accused
is wealthy or has rich friends he can obtain
bail, but if not his defence must be pre-
judiced. Chief Justice Irvine, of Victoria,
to whom a magistrate delegated the deci-
sion, has granted bail to five men, two of
whom are described as laborers, accused of
bomb outrages in Melbourne, fixing the
amount at £3OOO apiece. Is it likely that
any obscure laboring man threatened with
a capital charge could find anyone able
or willing to risk such a sum on his behall „
The way out is either to refuse bail abso-
lutely in cases of a defined degree of
gravity, or to apportion bail with a view
to the circumstances of an accused and his
friends.
The Cash-Order Cancer.
‘‘M’ler” : My first dab into the cash-order
of living has been disastrous —ana
enlightening.
My lot was a ten-pound order, for which
a charge of 5 p.c. was made. I got four
coupons, which allowed me to make my
purchases in four shops.
A drapery firm was first visited; and, u
I am wrong in saying that the goods m
this establishment were 20 p.c. higher than
those of any reputable cash concern in the
vicinity, the error is conservative rather
than extravagant. The reason of this was
soon apparent—out of the hundreds of per-
sons patronising this firm I saw only a
few handing hard cash over the counter.
Boots and shoes came next, and I decided
to try another firm; and, possibly because
this was a smaller shop and less in the
grip of the cash-order system, I fared better
Yet I am convinced that a saving of half
a note would have resulted if I had had
the cash. Next came toys and crockery
and a surplus of £3, which was more than
was needed. Now I certainly had the
option of spending that surplus in another
shop; but just then I could think of no-
thing that I particularly wanted, so the
surplus went for toys and more crockery
and the order had been spent!
Now, as the cash-order people charge 5
p.c. for the loan and get a rebate from the
shopkeeper of from 10 p.c. to p.c. (any
doubt as to this may be dispelled by asking
for a cash loan); and as the poor mug who
gets the order pays through the nose, sa^,
10 p.c. above the real price of the goods
purchased, and then buys (at a conservative
estimate) 5 p.c. more than he wants, he is
paying in the vicinity of 30 p.c. more than
he would pay if he lived within his means
and paid cash.
Another strong argument against the sys-
tem is this. e If a person is in a drapery
store and buys several articles that she
knows are fair value, and then selects an-
other article that is priced extortionately,
she will be practically forced to buy it on
account of the meagre supply of coupons.
The Tourist Trade.
The British are getting genuinely perturbed
about the way tourists —which nowadays
means chiefly Americans —are avoiding then-
shores. Four went to France for every one
that called on J. Bull last year, and m
desperation the Baldwin Government has
organised a scheme under which £30,000 p.a.
will be spent advertising the charms of the
U.K. There is a naive impression that this
is all that is required. “It is State-subsidised
propaganda,” said the London Express last
week “that draws thousands of Americans
to France, Italy, Germany, Switzerland, or
anywhere except Britain.” .
Habitual travellers, and particularly Aus-
tralians, could tell the Express differently.
London still attracts the millionaire type
of Yankee. Most of them come for social
or sporting amenities, and are immune from
the discomforts and disabilities which
afflict tourists of humbler financial standing.
For the average tourist Britain, with its nor-
mally execrable hotel cooking, its archaic
bathing arrangements, its restrictive
D.O.R.A. laws and its high prices, is not to
be compared with, say, France or Italy,
where the best of restaurant food is fairly
cheap, and where even in hotels of modest
standing the one-bedroom-one-bath system
prevails.
The tourist trade is of great and growing
importance. France’s 18,000,000 visitors spent
nearly £100,000,000 last year, and, what was
equally important, they contracted the
habit of buying French goods. Such an
army is of more advertising value to a
nation than any number of Government
propagandist 'schemes, or Government-
dispatched special-service squadrons.
Australia, with its ideal climate, its suri-
ing, ski-ing, fishing, etc., and its proximity
to America’s Pacific Coast, should be able to
tap a fair proportion of Uncle Sam’s tourist
output year by year. Unfortunately we
suffer from all the disabilities of the U.Ja..,
and a few more of our own contrivance.
Our good hotels are expensive, and our
cheap ones are long out of date. It is part
of the price paid by the nation for the high
standard of living and leisure enjoyed by
the workers, and time will show if we can
afford it.
The Waste of the Public Service.
“Komediak”: “P.M.’s” remark on Govern-
ment inefficiency (B. 12/12/ 28) will be
endorsed by every honest Government ser-
vant; and while the matter is under dis-
cussion it may be advisable to mention a
few other defects of the system.
Firstly, the slackness which is character-
istic of Government departments and par-
ticularly of State services—has an alarming
effect on the character of the younger and
more impressionable members thereof. - s
illustration it is sufficient to mention that
inquiries into the murder of a Sydney
moneylender revealed the fact that the bulk
of his regular clients were Government ser-
vants. The old saying, “the Devil finds
work for idle hands to do,” may sound queer
to modern ears, but its truth is admitted
by thoughtful civil servants.
Secondly, the service has the unfortunate
knack of producing snobs. A young, eager
youth leaves college or high school, and, if
not already a little white-collared sn°b, is
soon ruined by being put, before he has
any knowledge of the world or of command-
ing men, over an inferior race of beings
the messengers. Lack of intercourse with the
outside world, and the habit of bossiness
usually adopted by Government depart-
ments when proceeding to regulate the
conduct of the populace, is apt to make
him ignorant, narrow-minded and sell-
important. Eventually, if promotion conies
his way, he is liable to be known to those
under him as an overbearing, and domineer-
ing tyrant. Of course, this is not so m
every case —nor in the majority of them.
Thirdly, the natural desire for self-aggran-
disement, mentioned by “P.M.,” leads some
civil servants in responsible positions to
look with lenient eye on barefaced loafing;
for if the required work is not done it
implies under-staffing, and any increase of
staff tends to increase the importance ot
their job. . . .
New methods, which would quicken up
the work and thus complete it sooner, de-
spite official instructions to the contrary
are looked upon with disfavor, and any
progressive individual who is fool enoug
to persist in his efforts to modernise tie
service soon finds himself a most unpopular
person. Thus numerous characters like the
genial jmung Barnacle in “Little Don it
are bred in the service, and tolerate with a
cultivated good humor and cynicism tne
waste and inefficiency for which the public
pays. •
Our Garden Capital.
“C.Q.”: Wherever one goes amongst the
adolescent shrubs and trees of Canberra
one gets the impression of being m a
gigantic seed-farm. There is a nursery
near the Commission’s offices, and another
—a huge one—a few miles out. Gardeners
are everywhere—there are said to be over
200 —and you come on two or three lan-
guidly picking at weeds in the midst of
a desolation vast enough to be m Siberia.
The street plantations are being pushed
merrily ahead—not only where there are
houses, but away into the Country. Nearly
a million trees were planted last year, ana
some idea of the money cost can be gauged
by the fact that for nearly every tree a
hole has to be dug, and in many cases four
or five shots put in to shift the stony bot-
tom, good soil being then substituted for
the original indifferent article.
Then there are the hedges. The Com-
mission tak|£ sole responsibility for the
front line of every house, and, in order to
preserve the uniformity it sets such stole
on, plants and keeps in order every citi-
zen’s arboreal front fence. When the miles
and miles of hedges attain full growth, a
fresh army of clippers will have to be let
loose on them.
In addition the Commission takes a large
share of the responsibility for private
gardens. If a house leaser wants to chop
down a scribble gum to grow potatoes'Jie
has to get a permit, which means an inspec-
tion. if the Commission thinks his grounds
are not gardensome enough it- may send
men to blast more holes and stick in more
trees. A likely result of this paternalism
is to make the lazy resident sit back and
leave all to the Commission.
No doubt the result some day will be
splendid. Almost anything can be done if
one has a long-enough stocking to dip mto.


g*el/ c
| ,-■> ■■" •' fy&jjUffS v* Swsft *>wi i '
$»«.?! IWHTSHfI&rS
RED, WHITE and BLUE
WHISKY
Gaelic Special Reserve
DEARER —BUT BETTER
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO., LTD.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN AGENTS: JAMES HENTY & CO., 499 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD., 444 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
IAL
msm
kind
Ky
WK
I fr-M
fPfHTIW
POLITICAL
POINTS
The South-to-North railway across the
waist of Australia, which stopped at Oodna-
datta 37 years ago, has so far resumed busi-
ness that an extension of 180 miles to a
dead-end at Rumbalara has been opened
without ceremony. The work is to go on
another 118 miles to Alice Springs, because
the Government let a contract and couldn’t
get. out of it. At Alice Springs the under-
taking will dead-end again for an indefinite
while. There are good prospects of water
conservation in the Central-Australian
ranges, and there are pastoral and other
prospects ’beyond, and the still isolated Terri-
tory is doing another population slide which
decent means of communication should stop.
But the Bruce-Page loves the beaten track.
It is expected that the rice crop in the
Leeton (N.S.W.) irrigation district will be
more than sufficient for the requirements of
the whole continent. It shows what can be
done in the whole field of industry if we go
in steadfastly for growing and manufactur-
ing things we are capable of producing, in-
stead of buying them abroad with borrowed
money. Six or seven years ago the very
idea of growing rice in competition with
Asiatics would have been dismissed as fan-
tastic.
As if the Melbourne bomb-throwers hadn’t
done damage enough, hoodlums tore down
the Italian coat-of-arms from the sub-Con-
sulate at Innisfail (N.Q.) during the holi-
days and hung it, upside down, in front of
a Chinese store. Australia can’t afford to
have its relations with a friendly nation—
and, incidentally, one of its best, customers
—jeopardised by criminals of this sort.
There ought to be Commonwealth police to
track them down and Commonwealth gaols
to put them in, and the sentences should be
such as may teach the push that insulting
foreign representatives is a serious matter.
Sydney’s Eastern Suburbs railway is to lie
commenced before this Parliament dies, but,
for sufficient cause, not during this financial
j ear; the loan expenditure already set down
for 12 months to next June is £14,580.609.
Ihe new work is to carry the blessings of
tiam traffic to Bondi, Vaucluse, Waverley
and Randwick, and is to cost £5,000,000 and
all the rest. That will mean some £300,000
per annum interest and all the rest. The
Bavinshaw Ministry is incubating one more
scheme for “decentralising” and conferring
more vague “powers” on local bodies. Some
of the bodies are already castibg a grumpy
eye on city railways and bridges, and asking
if the money can’t be decentralised a little
more.
An expert assured the Westralians at the
year’s end that wuthin 18 months they would
be producing enough butter for their own
consumption. It may be so, but seeing that
1,521,705 pounds of butter and 181,618 pounds
of butter substitutes were imported in the
third quarter of 1928 (Government Statis-
tician’s figures), Strawberry will have her
work cut out. In 1927-28 £1,105,223 worth
of butter, cheese, tinned milk, eggs, bacon
and hams arrived in Westralia. mostly from
the Eastern States. All these items were to
have been removed from the imports list by
Mitchell’s group settlements, which date from
Jan., 1922, but something went wrong with
that scheme.
The Communist party celebrated the sea-
son of peace and goodwill by a conference
in Sydney, at which it was resolved to create
as much discord and ill-feeling in industrial
circles as possible; to fight against any
attempt to establish peace between employ-
ers and employees; to worm a way into
every union for the purpose of promoting
strife, and to protect Soviet Russia against
imperialistic and capitalistic attempts to
recover the foreign property it has “social-
ised.” It wasn’t put as simply as that—
one resolution contained 6000 words —but
the amiable intentions of the delegates were
expressed with a frankness that showed a
touching faith in the forbearance of their
fellow-citizens.
Nothing in the career of Gordon Coates,
till lately Prime Minister of Maoriland,
better became him than the manner in
which he took defeat. In a frank, good-tem-
pered speech he outlined what he considered
EARMARKED.
PARSON ( reading service ): “With all my worldly goods I thee endow.”
BRIDEGROOM: “Oh, I say, less Federal and State Income-tax and Amusement-tax, you
know.”
were the most important problems confront-
ing the Dominion, stated his party’s policy
towards those problems, and offered his
services to the new Ministers in case they
needed assistance in unravelling knotty de-
partmental matters. Ward accepted the
offer in a friendly way, and Labor-leader
Holland commended Coates as a good sports-
man and a clean fighter.
Dissatisfied with the present rate of pay,
some Vic. Assemblymen suggested just before
the close of the session that the 39 country
members should be allowed at least £lOO a
year each for exes., but McPherson replied,
“I can’t hear you,” or words to that effect.
Ex-Premier Hogan disclosed that, carrying
out a direction of the House, he had asked
Irvine, C.J., to let a Supreme Court Judge
go into the question of members’ salaries,
and asked in vain. While envious of the £875
p.a. paid to N.S.W. Assemblymen, Vic. mem-
bers would be satisfied with a rise of 20 or
25 per cent, on the £5OO they now draw.
Political death-bed conversions are never
convincing. When Labor held all the West-
ralian Senate seats —as it did for 10 years
—little Needham cheerfully ignored the
claims of the minority to representation.
Now he thinks it scandalous that the elec-
tors who voted for him last month—l 7 per
cent., he reckons—should be without a Sena-
tor, and calls upon the “Tories” to right
the wrong. The “Tories” may have
a shot at it in their own interest, but
they are unlikely to get any help from Need-
ham’s party. After June there will be only
seven Labor Senators, and how is Labor
to get a majority if the next batch is elected
on the proportional principle?
While no one in his senses suggests that
the Vie. Government railways should carry
people from Melbourne to Mildura for the
same price as from Melbourne to Malvern,
the demand that “juice” from Yallourn
should be delivered at the same rate to all
parts of the State is beginning, to be heard.
It is a rock on which the now fairly pros-
perous State Electricity Commission may
crash if politicians tamper with the steering
gear.
At this moderately joyous holiday season
“Good Ole Piddo’s” rural basic wage came
home to roost, and the Sydney papers began
to be rushed with communications like
this: —•,
I have travelled lately through many miles of
country, and it is the same at every' farm, the
husband and wife with little children struggling
along from daylight to dark to keep things going.
There is plenty of work, but nearly all the small
farmers I spoke to are afraid to employ anyone
over 21 without giving the basic wage; they say
they can’t afford it, and to give less would leave
them open to the 1aw.... It would open the eyes
of the people to see the army of destitute men on
the roads all making for Sydney.
If the Inquisition had been a humorous in-
stitution it might have amused itself by turn-
ing the humble heretic loose with an indelible
inscription on him that no one must employ
him for less than £lO per week under pain
of damnation for both parties.
The rescue by aeroplane of the women and
children in the British, French and German
legations at Kabul should help white corn-
munities generally in Asia to sleep easier
while Mullahs preach murder and Bolshevists
are abroad. The precedent is valuable in
another direction. If the relief of the lega-
tions at Peking in the Boxer business had
come from the air instead of having to toil
over the insanitary soil, thousands of lives
and millions of pounds would have been
saved.
So far the N.S.W. Government’s cam-
paign against the dope traffic has been
miserably ineffectual. There are parts of
Sydney in which cocaine can be bought on
almost any street corner, and it is admitted
by the police that the habit is spreading to
young, girls, while addicts are increasingly
resorting to crime. The only agent in the
chain between importer and addict whom the
police ever succeed in catching is the peddler.
To wipe out the peddler would necessitate a
larger force than a couple of Drug Bureau
detectives and a Pharmacy Board inspector,
but whatever expense was entailed would
be money well spent.
By treaty with most of the Powers, includ-
ing Britain, China will shortly be able to
raise its tariff, previously restricted to 74
p.c.,. to any figure it likes. The Chinese
Maritime Customs arrived by accident. Dur-
ing the Taiping revolt, there being no
authority about, British merchants volun-
tarily collected the duties on their goods and
kept the money in trust. Later, under the
great Sir Robert Hart, the Customs became
more far-reaching and important than the
Government. The Nationalists are reported
to be anxious to turn out the Englishmen
and collect the cash themselves. They
already collect the internal duties known as
liJcin, and it is considered a good year if less
than 88 p.c. of this is pinched.
The chronic deputation representing the
Vic. branch of the Australian Railways
Union was seeing the Minister the other
day, and it recommended the habitual remedy
for the financial tangle, “the writing off of
capital liability” :
Commissioners, Government and public would
benefit. At present interest had to be paid on
capital spent years ago on works now obsolete. Capital
should be written off to give the Commissioners a
chance.
The amount of Victorian railway capital
represented only by rust and decay and de-
preciation and blunders is estimated at
£15,000.000. It would be an illuminating
event if some Government would write to
the aggregate British creditor, at the Tower
of London or wherever he may be found,
telling Kim that this amount had been really
written off, and that naturally no more
interest on it would be forthcoming. The
reply would convince that adventurous Minis-
try that genuine writing off only applies to
works built with the State’s own money, and
not to loan enterprises.
Various “progressive” Mohammedan mon-
archs have started on a disastrous -toboggan
by going to Europe, where they spent an
immensity of money and were much admired
for their desire to raise themselves and their
people to higher levels. Barring a recent
Persian man, who lingered on the race-
courses of Europe till he was notified that
the crown of Darius had changed heads, they
returned home broke, full of new ideas, and
bringing a fortune in gimcracks. Amanullah
of Afghanistan tried to impose new clothes
and habits on one of the toughest human
mixtures in Asia, and failed to pay the
army, which had gone badly into arrear
during his absence. So a civil and military
rising is reported to have made a Bonfire
of his collection of gimcracks, and at time of
writing reliable information about him and
his wife was lacking. When information
about an Afghan king stops there is always
a fear that he has run down and that no one
has troubled to wind him up again.
The Vic. Parliamentary select committee
which recommended the totalisator and con-
demned proprietary racing, root and branch,
mentions some curious trafficking in legalised
betting places. For example :
The Richmond, Fitzroy and Ascot courses have
been sold to a club of 40 members by Wren and
Nathan for a fixed sum, which sum is in process of
liquidation out of the profits on meetings.... But,
while everything appeared to be straightforward,
the very high values being obtained by the pro-
prietors.... left doubts....as to whether the values
were not placed so high in order to render liquida-
tion impossible.
It is on record that Wren contracted to
sell the Albion Park course, Brisbane, on
the very long instalment plan for £460,000.
No amounts are given by the Vic. committee,
but Albion Park is a very small affair com-
pared with Richmond, Fitzroy and Ascot.
Proprietary racing is obviously a great thing
for the proprietors, whatever it may he for
the public which fattens them.
Some British prophets say that 1929 will
be a better year in John Bull’s country, and
it will if there is more vigorous Protection
of local manufactures. Britain is a manu-
facturing country which has to buy an alarm-
ing amount of its raw material abroad. It
is more or less. dependent on outsiders for
wool, cotton, silk, timber, petroleum, iron,
copper, tin, zinc and rubber, and it is dis-
tinctly short of wheat and edible flesh, though
it isn’t badly off for fish. Coal represents in
a normal year' about 93 per cent, of Bull’s
mineral output, measured by value, and coal
isn’t feeling too well at present. England,
with Wales, beats every European country
save Belgium for density of population, and
it does the same with Japan and China.
Perhaps closer settlement begins to be over-
done.
Maoriland had 137,451 people actually em-
ployed on farms, largely (proprietors, of
course, in 1926, which was 8929 less than in
1923. It is about one-third the size of
N. S. Wales, and is blessed with so many
scenic attractions that it possesses 201 peaks,
in nine separate ranges or groups, which are
taller than Australia’s Kosciusko. These
take up a good deal of room, as also do a
multitude of smaller alps and sundries, and
24 lakes. If new and excited men start
wholesale landtbuying with British loan
money on the limited space which isn’t used
for scenery, they may start a boom in prices
which will lead to staggering consequences.
When Victoria experienced staggering con-
sequences in 1890-93 its public debt was only
about £45,000.000, whereas lOUseph Ward
is out after £70,000,000 at short notice. The
conditions are not the same, but there is a
family resemblance about bursts whatever
the conditions.
THE MAJESTY OF THE LAW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The departmental proposal to reduce the height
standard of the N.S.W. police from sft. 9Jin. to
sft. 9in. is strongly resisted by the force. ‘The
uniform should always stand for the majesty and
commanding presence of the Law,’ declares the
general secretary of the Police Association.”
“Law’s majesty,” said the artless lad,
“How oft I’ve heard it spoken of, Dad!
That it’s righteous might personified
I know, but where may it be descried?
Shall I look for it where our chiefs of State
Hold solemn converse and high debate,
Where the rafters rock to the fierce harangues
Of caustic Bavins and heated Langs?”
“Not there, my son. You should be aware
Only mental stature matters there,
And the staunchest tribune and eke the best
May be next to nothing around the chest.
Where they frame the Law is little or none
Of its stately grandeur. Not there, my son !”
“Shall I go a-questing it then, old bird,
In the haunts where the Law’s administered ?
May I gaze on it in the stuffy court
Where the horse-haired counsel drone or
snort,
Where the jury to use their sense are bid
And the Judge looks wise as old Thurlow
did;
Or the dour P.M. bends a visage grim
On the pert attorney who sauces him?”
“Not there, my son. More oft than not
The Judges and beaks are a snuffy lot,
And the chaps who wrangle and snarl for
a fee
Show naught of the august dignity
That round the Law like an aura’s spun
In our glowing fancy. Not there, my son !
“You may find it, lad, if you needs must
know,
Where the stalwart johns upon duty go,
Where order’s kept and the streets policed
By coves five-nine-and-a-half at least.
There, there is the majesty of the Law
The chests and biceps that fill with awe
The evildoers who wilt and run.
It is there, the sign that you seek, my son.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Mephisto”: A woman tripped over an
irregularity in a Brisbane pavement recently
and hurt her thigh in the fall. She approached
one of the city councillors in the street with
a bitter complaint about the council’s negli-
gence. “I’ve got a big bruise on my leg,
she told him. Bumble expressed liis sym-
pathy. “I’m sure you’d do something about
it if I showed you the place,” she . added.
The city father looked a trifle apprehensive.
“No, no. Not here,” he said. The com-
plainant viewed him coldly. “I mean the
place on the footpath where I fell, she
explained. .
“R. Volt”: Mention of the loco, workshop
which built two engines too wide to pass
each other on the road (B. 19/12/ 28) re-
calls a bit of carelessness that nearly wrecked
the promising careers of two cable othcials.
Nearly a generation ago it was decided to
make'Port Adelaide a cable-repairing depot.
Land was leased, tanks and wharves erected,
the river dredged above a swing bridge,
and the cable ship—a beautiful brand-new
one and the largest of her kind-—was nearly
due to take up her station. It only then
occurred to someone that the vessel s beam
might be greater than the gap in the bridge.
It was Saturday afternoon, and two pale
cable mandarins spent a hour trying
to raise a port oflicial who could give them
the dimensions of the bridge. Finally they
rushed down and put the tape over it them-
selves. When the captain, a paymaster m
sturdy profanity, stood watching his spick-
and-span craft scraping her way tlirougn, ms
TONING IT DOWN.
MOTHER: “But whatever were you doing with the ink, Joan?”
JOAN: “I wanted to whisper something to Father Christmas, so I just, watered it,
Mummy.”
language curdled the fluid in a neighboring
milkcart. There were eight inches to spare
on each side.
#•* * *
“Spare Professor”: Anyone desiring to
inculcate the elementary principles of geology
might do worse than take little Willie round
to the back of St. Mary’s Cathedral in Syd-
ney. There the huge heap of talus which
has accumulated along the side of the cath-
edral during the years of building, as the
result of fragments falling from walls and
roof, is being removed. In the course of a
few'years the chips have set as hard as the
original rock, so hard* that drilling has been
necessary to break the stuff down. The 12ft.
face shows the clearly defined strata of the
different “periods,” these being separated by
temporary stoppages of the work. Half-way
up the face are two parallel bands of black
slate with a foot of stone separating them.
They represent intervals when work on the
stone stopped and portion of the slate roof-
ing was put on. Then came another spell
of stone work, and again a slating period,
till the stone came again to cover all up.
All the strata are horizontal, having been
unaffected to date by seismic disturbance.
* * * . *
“Globe” : The telegraph-operator sometimes
makes a mistake in perfect good faith. The
letter “e” is represented in Morse as a dot,
and in stormy weather a dot is apt to drop
out, i.e., not respond to the receiving sounder.
An’ experienced operator will often, and
quite rightly, fill in the missing letter. Some
time ago a man sent the following telegram
to his wife: “You return home I quit under-
stand.” The receiving operator after a little
consideration “imagined” an “e” and made it.
“You return home I quite understand.” The
operator was departmentally fined for what
subsequently proved to be a blunder, but
whether the error turned out happily or un-
happily he doesn’t know to this day.
“Old Lag”:
The Fren c h,
who invented
the Bertillon
system and first
exploited th e
t h u m b-print
theory, have
gone a step fur-
ther on the way
of making the
criminal’s lot
still more un-,
happy. The new
method is the
injection of a
special prepara-
tion of paraffin
wax under the
skin to form
p e r m anent
lumps. Tattoo-
ing and even
scars can be got
rid of, but these
lumps are in-
- effaceable, and
t h <;• i r location
determines the
type of crime
for which the
patient has
been previously
convicted. Bur-
glars are treat-
ed on the right
shoulder, pick-
pockets on the
left, and so on.
The, lumps are
hardly visible
and identifiable
by no one but the
police, whereas
the pleasant ancj simple old practice of dial-
ing with a hot iron produced a mark that
took a lot of explaining away to casual
observers.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: If a detachment of the
mostly-undisciplined rabbi e_ of. Quichua
Indians who constitute the Bolivian army
has really captured a Paraguayan fort (as
was cabled the other day), it is practically
certain that it was a mighty poor fort with
very few Paraguayans inside it. nne
Bolivian is a sheeplike and deplorably-igno-
rant individual, and as a fighting man le
can only be regarded as a joke except when
he happens to be full of the villainous crude
alcohol of the country. Francesco Pizarro
found him a negligible quantity when he
invaded and conquered the country with a
mere handful of Spanish adventurers and
consigned the natives to a slavery which has
been little ameliorated to the present day.
In the war against Chili the Bolivians, made
it a footrace from start to finish, and m the
final settlement the invaders took the rich
nitrate province of Antofagasta as compen-
sation for the wear and tear of their cow-
hide boots and “alpargatas.” Thg Para-
guayan is far superior to the Bolivian m
intelligence and everything else: when
Brazil, Argentina and Uruguay combined
against him, he fought, often with success,
against overwhelming odds until disease,
starvation and the guns of the enemy had
reduced his country to a nation of women
and children and old men and cripples. The
territory now in dispute is chiefly dense
forest containing valuable timber, such as
curupay, lapacho, palo santo and quebracho,
as well as yerba mate and other valuable
vegetable products.
:j: >;c ❖
“Smada”: The smashing up of Holborn,
London, by gas explosions from the mams
is a reminder that the whole of modern
Babylon is undermined. Apparently the
gas companies and the water-mains and tubes
and the lighting and power plants form an
almost inextricable jumble underneath the
citv. Every excavation reveals unsuspected
dangers. It has been suggested that streets
should be, as it were, sealed for a certain
term of years, after having been permanently
fixed. Yet there are some very remarkable
things hidden far below. One office, neai
the Bank of England, the London Assurance
Company, obtains its water from wells sunk
300 feet below its foundations, in the under-
lying gravel; and the water is the best in
Lond6n, as it lies in what is a natural filter.
This office, by the way, makes its own
ozone for the staff.
* * *
“Detonator” : Let me repeat for “P.M'.’s”
benefit (B. 19/12/’2S) that the French
inverted blue service chevrons were angulai
—I enclose a photo in proof. The small,
straight bar placed diagonally on the sleeve
cuff, which he has confused with the chevron,
was the rank badge of an n.c.o. As for his
suggestion that French volunteers wore
THE EX RAYS.
“And then I found out that this girl was only thinking of my money."
“But you haven't got any, have you, George?”
“No. That’s what she discovered.”
almost non-existent, he is apparently unaware
that a Frog or a Fritz was not called up
till he was 21, but they were allowed to
enlist at 18, even before the war, and dunng
the latter years of the war at 17. The
vast majority of “ engages volontaires came
naturally from that class, and the balance
from reservists not yet called up in. 1.114-10,
and from men unfit owing to age or dis-
ability. The French percentage of volunteer
enlistments was quite equal to ours on a
population basis. All members of my crowd,
from 18 to 50, volunteered as a matter of
course in 1914, including my father, who was
59 when he died for France. Two of my
brothers who also made the supreme sacri-
fice were unfit men, one having deficient sight
and the other one leg atrophied, while a
third was an uncalled reservist. They all
wore the volunteer’s shoulder-badge when I
saw them last in Paris.
* * * f
“C.Q.”: An old trick has been forgotten
by the Melbourne small boy, judging by a
recent incident in connection with an inter-
rupted band performance in a park at
Moonee Ponds. Four youths were charged
with behaving in an offensive manner by
throwing Moreton P»ay figs into the wind
instruments to the detriment of the music.
In my youth a more effective method, and
one which no limb of the Law could call
offensive, was to suck a lemon in front of the
players.
sjc sfc *
“A.J.V.”: Those old rivals the Finnish
four-masted barque Herzogin Cecilie and the
Swedish four-masted barque Beatrice are to
have another race across the world this wheat
season, against 13 other sailers that either
of them should be able to beat easily. The
big Finn blew into Port Lincoln the other
day after a wild 91-day passage from Copen-
hagen; she had had to go around the north
of Scotland to fetch out into the Atlantic
because a westerly gale had caught her at the
mouth of the Channel; then when she was
off the north-west of Ireland a hurricane
squall threw her on her beam ends, and she
lost every sail that was aloft. Despite the
four days’ delay she easily beat the Beatrice,
which took 112 days from Antwerp to Port
Adelaide. Now both are in South Aus-
tralian ports and will be loaded and off to
sea together. They go round the Horn.
% * * *
“S T.S.”: The City Council of Adelaide
has declined with thanks a sporting offer of
Theberton Hall, the old English home of
William Light, who selected and surveyed the
site of the city at the end of 1836. A suburb
where he lived later is called Thebarton, the
spelling having gone awry in the course of
years. The offer has been under considera-
tion for a year, during which Harwell, A. J.
McLaclilan and sundry city councillors on
travel have inspected the old Hall m Suffolk.
There is a yearly income from farms, but
considerable capital expenditure would be
needed, and altogether the Corporation thinks
land-owning in England a little out of its
line - * * . *
“M.G.S.”: He had weak pink eyes, white
eyelashes and the complexion of uncooked
tripe. He looked as if he had been born
and had stayed until yesterday at the
bottom of a mine, and he was afflicted with
hay fever, which involved him in almost con-
tinuous fits of sneezing, between which he
lit and 'smoked a succession of cigaiettes.
He looked as if he hadn’t a kick left in lum,
and the woman with the long face, the
morose nose and the bitter Calvimstic mourn
who had got into the crowded smoking com-
partment at the last stop surveyed him
with mounting disgust as the harvested
fields flew by. Finally her wrath boiled over
into words. “Sir,” she snapped, don t
you see that it is all those cigarettes that
are irritating your catarrh!” The weak
eyes suddenly grew unexpectedly fierce.
“Madam,” he said, “I should love to irritate
my catarrh. It has been irritating me tor
45 years!” _ .
“45” : The paragraph about the unexpected
discovery under the chapel sit Windsor of
the remains of Charles I. (B. 21/11/28)
is a reminder that the Stuart family were
addicted to getting mislaid after death. The
bones of James I. could not be found m
Westminster Abbey when, 250 years after
his death, the supposed resting place of him
and his Queen was invaded. The searchers,
however, did discover something they were
not looking for, viz., the headless body of
Mary Queen of Scots, in proximity to the
remains of Arabella Stuart. Finally the
resourceful Dean Stanley, who was conduct-
ing operations, bethought him of James s
habit of identifying himself with the old
ruling family, and opened up Henry VIII. s
vault. Here, sure enough, was the missing-
monarch, the wooden covering having been
stripped from the leaden caskets of' Henry
and his l#st wife to make room for the
bones of James.
* * * *
“Pills”.: Brisbane City Council is in pos-
session of a unique doicument from the
General Director of Finances, tvoiimama. It
is the usual communication, asking for an
exchange of municipal information; its
charm is the work of the gentleman who
translated the original into English. Among
the questions are : “Which is the total inhabi-
tants in the town : (1) Durable inhabitants,
(2) stirring inhabitants?” And; after some
requests for enlightenment about the methods
adopted to enforce the collection of rates
in Australia, the Bucharest authority is
made to inquire bluntly “How are the rate-
payers executed?”
* * * *
“Cato”: The first white men executed in
Victoria (B. 19/12/’2B) were the Diamond
Creek bushrangers—Daniel Jepps (an
American), Fogarty and Ellis. The con-
demned men were compelled to sit on their
coffins, facing the hangmen, who walked be-
hind the open cart. The gallows had been
erected on the site of the old Melbourne
gaol in Swanston-street. There was a great
crowd to see the free show. The most grue-
some part of it was that the hangman was
allowed to strip the bodies, before they
were cut down, of all clothing.
* * * *
“Hamer”: A scientist, Professor Kulik.
has been telling the world what a lucky
escape it had in 1908, when the biggest
meteorite on record bumped into the globe,
but, fortunately for residents in congested
districts, fell in unpeopled Northern Siberia.
According to Kulik, this bolt from the blue
destroyed everything, animal and vegetable,
over 2500 square miles, laying flat the trees
of a forest 100 miles across; in other words,
if the world had had less luck in the place
of impact the whole of Belgium, or the
greater part of the South of England, or, to
get nearer home, a district including Syd-
ney and Newcastle and stretching back to
the other side of the mountains would have
been blasted into nothingness. Probably it s
a lie, but it’s an intriguing one.
* * * *
“Wingella”: “Aileron” (B. 10/10/’2B)
says: “If Australia has done anything to
commemorate the flight of Ross and Keith
Smith, the matter has been kept very qtnet.
A granite obelisk was erected in 1923 to com-
memorate the flight. It stands on the .cliff at
Fanny Bay. Darwin, and was unveiled by
Senator Pearce, then Minister for Home and
Territories. A guard of honor from the Gera-
nium was at the ceremony. On one side of the
monument are the names of the aviators.
Ross Smith. Keith Smith, Sergeant J. M.
Bennett and Sergeant W. IP Shiers. On
the other side the inscription reads:
“Erected bv the Commonwealth of Australia
to commemorate tlm landing at Port Darwin
of the first aerial flight from England, lOtn
December, 1919.”
BALLADE OF HALF A DOLLAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where is my boyhood’s fourpenny-bit,
The coin with the- unserrated rim! 1
Vanished for years indefinite, -
Only a memory faint and dim.
Yet I scanned it once with a whom-souied
vim
And a keen regard for the extra brown
Pent up in that circlet thin and trim.
And where is the old-time half a crown .
Where is the guinea? It’s done a flit.
A century since they doused its glim.
And the farthing? I’m not regretting it,
Though pawky Scots may its praises hymn.
The note replaces the half a jim
That once you whacked on the counter down
For full, fair glasses and pots a-brim.
But where is the fine, fat half a crown?
Is the skimpy florin, d’you reckon, fit _
To take its place when you feel the whim
A palm to cross or a spot to hit
Or to make with deep contentment swim
The eyes of schoolboy cherubim?
Can you do your devoirs and win renown
With a brace of bobs and a tanner slim
As you could with a one-piece half a crown i
'Twas unsymmetrical, I admit.
The decimal system to leg it hit,
And made the currency pundit frown.
But life with a fuller joy it lit,
And ever I mourn that the minters (juit
Their work with the cheering half a crown.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Sixenate” : Some of those people who hurl
themselves into eternity can’t be blamed
for lack of consideration towards those they
leave behind them. Quite recently a Sydney
musician, prior to hanging himself, wrote a
message giving a telephone number and ask-
ing his relatives to advise the conductor of
an orchestra to get another drummer for
Saturday. A Marrickville woman carried
this unselfish spirit even further when, at the
end of a farewell note to her husband,
she mentioned that he would find his
dinner in the oven. A determination to leave
matters as straight as he could in the world
he. was leaving was shown by a Melbourne
suicide, who requested that out of the money
he had left on the mantelpiece eighteen-
pence should be paid to a restaurant which
he had “scaled” for the price of a meal. “I
want to put myself right with God,” his
message concluded, indicating a conviction
that the one and a sprat short-paid in the
restaurant account had been duly entered in
the ledgers of Heaven.
❖ * * *
“Oran”: Something like an ecclesiastical
bombshell was cast into the Waikato (M.L.)
diocese when Bishop Cherrington expressed
his views on Sabbath observance in the dio-
cesan magazine. This outspoken prelate advo-
cates a spirit of joyousness on the Sabbath;
he freely favors excursions, dancing, garden-
ing and other pleasant occupations and amuse-
ments, and the abolition of Sunday-schools,
daringly remarking that as nobody else is
doomed to lessons on Sunday he sees no
reason why defenceless children should have
to suffer them. After assimilating these
suggestions various elderly parsons, bred in
gloom, hastily returned their allotment of
SAFETY FIRST.
"Gee, that was a hot -party last night! How did it end up?"
“I dunno—when I left they were just ringing up for the fire
brigade."
the offending magazine to headquarters, one
agitated cleric who had distributed his
quota spending a day or so collecting them
from his intrigued parishioners. As the
Maoriland Sabbath is a day of restrictions
and general tedium the Bishop’s cheerful
recommendations are regarded as something
akin to Bolshevism.
* * # H*
“Colonel Starbottle”: One of those inci-
dents which tend to estrange nations cropped
up the other day, when the British Cunard
put a 20,000-ton liner on the New York-
Havana run —hitherto a close preserve
of the American Shipping Board. The lat-
ter body is threatening reprisals, and it cer-
tainly has some right to feel aggrieved, for
Uncle Sam’s prohibition policy was the cause
of the roaring passenger trade which now
flourishes between the two points. Havana
is wide open in the matter of drinking and
gambling, whereas a certain amount of irk-
some concealment is necessary before one
can indulge in either in the land of the wooden
ham and the shoe-peg oats. Hence the begin-
ning of the winter sees a host of moneyed
people heading for Havana. The U.S. Ship-
ping Board has an additional grievance in
the fact that there is not even a bootlegger
on its steamers, and the drouth continues
until the landfall is made at Havana. In
the British vessels it breaks with a bang
directly the 12-mile limit is reached.
:Jc # ;J: *
“Coll. Exon.” : These paragraphs about the
ancient and allegedly dishonorable office of
public hangman remind me that, when I
was at Oxford, two high-spirited under-
graduates, with a passion for notoriety, in-
vited the Ketch of
the period—his name
was Marwood and he
had arrived in the city
on professional busi-
ness to breakfast
with them. The invi-
tation in itself was a
prank no madder than
lots of others one
could recall, but the
curious (and possibly
unexpected) part of it
was that the execu-
tioner accepted it,
and arrived, fre s h
from his grisly work,
to discuss devilled
kidneys and the topics
of the hour. The col-
lege authorities got to
hear of the matter
and the culprits,
threatened with sever >
punishment, took the
bold step of appealing
to the famous Jowett.
then Vice-Chancellor.
They pointed out that
their guest was as
essential a part of the
machinery of criminal
law as the Supreme
Court Judges or the
Sheriff, and that since
these latter were fre-
quently entertained by
the highest in the
land, they conceived
they had done nothing
wrong in extending
hospitality to a low-
lier servant of the
State. And Jowett, being a just man as well
as a massive scholar, admitted the soundness
of the argument by upholding their appeal—
whatever may have been his private opinion
of the young men’s taste in the matter of
breakfast guests.
* * * ■*
“Coot”: In a recent State-school exami-
nation in a Melbourne suburb one question
was, “Give the name of the Premier of Vic-
toria.” One bright youth, with the positions
of the clubs in the Vic. League football com-
petition fresh in his mind, unhesitatingly
wrote “Collingwood.”
ij: * * ❖
“C.A.8.”: The British Government pre-
sented a replica of the Speaker’s chair in
the -House of Commons to Canberra, and
there are slips from the willows over the
grave of Napoleon
lining the banks of
the Molonglo. Ap-
parently Canberra
has decided the
time has come to
reciprocate. A large
wooden cross has
been made from
the timbers of the
old original church-
school of St. John
the Baptist, the
foundation-stone of
which was laid in
1841, and pre-
sented to the
Right Rev. E. N.
Wilton, recently
appointed Bishop
of the Mandated
Territory of New
Guinea. The cross
is to be erected at
the spot where the
Bish. and his party
land in New
Guinea.
❖ ❖
“Pip To k”:
When “P.M.” (B.
28/11/’2B) states
that there is no
badge containing
crossed swords he
is correct only so
far as badges of
rank are concerned.
The crossed swords
have always been
the badge of what
is now the Army
Physical Training
Staff. Gym instruc-
tors in the Navy
wear crossed clubs.
But now that
weapon-training is
carried out 'by
other branches of
the military forces
and Swedish has
supplanted the
older gymnastics and calisthenics as the basis
of training in both services, these badges, like
th e “back number” of the Gloucester and
the flash” of the Welsh Fusiliers, are merely
interesting historical survivals.
* *
“M.G.S.” : Australian Esperantists are cele-
brating the anniversary of the death of Dr.
L. L. Zamenhof, who published the first book
on Esperanto, in 1887. During the interven-
ing 50 years Esperanto has steadily dis-
placed Ido, Yolapuk, Occidental. Latino
Sine Flexione and all other artificial tongues,
and the fact has moved Mr. J. G. Pyke, the
Melbourne president of the society, to an-
nounce that the world is steadily moving
towards universal acceptance of the lingo.
Still, I have my doubts. For one tiling, the
celebrations coincide with the arrival of a
new competitor for world honors—this time
the invention of a Dane, Otto Jespersen.
Exactly the same claims are made for
Novial as were made for Esperanto.
It has a simpler grammar than its pre-
decessor, more beautiful sounds and an
easier vocabulary. It is like a predi-
gested breakfast food—even children and in-
valids can assimilate it. There seems no
logical reason why it should not displace
Esperanto just as Esperanto displaced Vola-
puk. Until the Esperantists get a law
passed declaring the making of new synthetic
languages illegal I shall stick to English,
I estimate that I have spoken to over 40
nationalities in English and been understood,
but I have never yet been addressed in
Esperanto except at a meeting of English
Esperantists.
ANOTHER VICTORY.
SARAH: “Me and the missus had a fine dust-up this morning, Emma. She goes and
writes her name in the dust on the pianner and says ter me, ‘Look at that!’”
HEMMA: “The ’ide of ’erl But you ticked ’er off, dearie, I hope?”
SARAH: “Didn’t I! I looks at the writin’ and says, ‘My, ain’t it wonderful what these
State Schools ’as done for people!’”
“Mephisto” : It isn’t my experience that
the Queenslander of the humid coastal belt
dresses more sensibly than the southerner
(B. 12/12/’2B). I have lived through many
Brisbane summers, and have always prided
myself on being one of the very few people
who refuse to stick to heavy dark clothes,
Lately I went north to Rockhampton and
Mackay. When I turned out in a white
duck suit, white shoes and snowy helmet, I
heard no commendation of my good sense,
merely derisive suggestions that I should
be complete with a white umbrella and a
parrot in a cage. Even the little boys in the
streets cried, “Bang! Bang!” presumably
inferring that I looked like a big-game
hunter. I tried to smile in a superior way at
the poor humans who had Turkish baths in
their clothes, but they refused to look
crushed.
* * * *
“Let Go” : Touching those A.I.F, memo-
rials. I seem to remember that all we Light
Horsemen in Palestine were docked a day’s
pay as a contribution towards the placing
of an inanimate mounted trooper somewhere
off Port Said, the idea being that in utter
years Aussie passengers travelling by air
or water would be able to point it out to
one another and tell how the Light Horse
won the war in Sinai and Palestine. I
haven’t had the luck to take a trip* since my
discharge, but I’m wondering if that lonely
trooper is at his post. I’d like to know how
my dollar sub was spent.
*'* * *
“Adsum”- “H.E.R.” (B. 28/11/’2B) was
a bit premature. In the very city (Perth)
where he said that methylated spirits were
so touched up with evil-tasting tar that
nobody could drink them, an unfortunate
chap negotiated two bottles of the awful stuff
the other day and died soon afterwardst
* * * *
“Si Anu”: Singapore has been complaining,
of misrepresentation since a local paper
quoted a Melbourne Argus correspondent as
having found the island a lotus-eaters’ para-
dise, where everybody goes to sleep from
2 p.m. to 4.30. As a matter of fact the
afternoon siesta has long gone out of fashion ;
it had ceased to be general in my time,
whidh extends back, off and on. to 1905.
Even the Dutch in Java have managed to
do without it for the last, decade. W hite
men in the tropics are paid four times more
than natives doing much the same work,
and European firms, faced with the fierce
competition cf the Arabs, Chinese, Armenians
and Indians, cannot afford to let their Cau-
casian employees go. slow. As might have
been foretold, playing hard and working
harder doesn’t kill the white man off naif as
quickly as doing’ nothing and drinking in
between, which was the custom under the
old regime. __
*** > “
, “Clerk” : They could be flippant, not to
say vulgar, in the decorous days of good
Queen Vie. and General. Grant. A round-
tlie-world tourist ticket, issued by. a Yankee
railway company in 1872 and costing £2OO a
time, recently came my way. On the various
sectional coupons is printed snappy com-
ment which might elevate the eyebrows of
Railway Commissioner Clapp, always on the
look-out for new and arresting slogans. For
instance, on the Marseilles-Paris coupon I
find the wording: “Buck up and get on your
store clothes. Buy the old lady and girls
gowns here.”' On the Suez-Alexandra, “Step
off at Cairo and lay in your mummies. You
can o-pt nine varieties of bugs on you here.”
On file \den-Suez “You are now crossing
the Red Sea. Pharaoh tried it once and got
wet.” On the Bombay-Aden, “This is where
Adam and Eve started business.” On the
Calais-Dover, “Hire servant to hold bucket
f° r you. And on the last coupon, tor tne
Liverpool-New York section, “You re round
tb. e world now. Next time bring your own
wife. ’
* * * *
“O. McKay M.”: “Sirloin” (B. 28/11/’2B)
quotes Charlie Brown, carver at the famous
Simpson’s in the Strand, against the tradi-
tion that roast beef is the Englishman’s
staple joint. At ’Ome they may like mutton
better, though I doubt it, but they certainly
don’t like frozen mutton. The average Eng-
lishman will eat Argentine chilled stuff every
time in preference to the Australian variety.
During the last Imperial Conference all sorts
of schemes were mooted for rushing chilled
Australian mutton in fast ships to Plngland.
but nothing seems to have been done. Inci-
dentally. the English taste for “fresh,” as
distinguished from salt, butter is always a
puzzle to the visiting Australian.
* * * *
“Bill O’C.” : Those correspond*ents who
are busy locating the hiding-place of the
famous Marston bushranger gang are all
at sea, or rather bushed. I discovered the
place quite by accident lately; it is, or then
was, on the stock route at the back of Dryas-
bone. Met a dejected swaggie sitting on
Matilda with a be-damned-to-everything ex-
pression. “What’s the matter?” I asked
sympathetically. “Full up?” “Cripes, no!”
he replied. “I’m terrible hollow.” So there
it is! Geographical researchers please note
that I holped to fill it up.
* * * *
“D.” ; The cabled news that “the world’s
largest indoor ice-rink has been opened at
Richmond, near London,” draws attention
to the fact that England is not nearly so
well equipped for winter sports as Australia.
It is generations since there was skating on
the Thames. The lakes and ponds which
used to freeze so readily when Dickens was
writing are rarely in order for skating nowa-
days, and an art or sport which used to
flourish amongst all classes- —more particu-
larly in the fens districts —has been con-
fined. of late years to the few rich people
who can afford to visit the Swiss skating
and ski-ing resorts or belong to London’s
Ice Club. The Ice Club is exclusive as well
as expensive. It is controlled largely by
members of the millionaire Cortauld family,
of artificial silk fame, and neither money
nor the ability to skate suffices to gain
admittance. The Richmond rink is designed,
presumably, to cater for those outside the
Ice Club clique. But the normal Briton
has about as much chance of learning to
skate as he would if he lived at Colombo.
Something lias happened to the climate since
the days when snow and skating were asso-
ciated inseparably with Christmas.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The nearest approach to a vestal
flame in Melbourne is the municipal rubbish-
tip at Fairfield Park. The match that started
it was lit 24 years ago, and it has been
burning ever since.
* * * *
From our Spiritual Specialist;—
A London cable says of the Salv’army’s High
Council of 64 members, which will meet on January
8 to elect a General: “The machinery resembles that
for the election of a Pope, on which it was modelled.”
I have been watching the Army for a quarter of a
century, and have been impressed, in all that time;
by its growing approximation to Rome. It was
poor, and it is rich. It was localised, and it is
now almost as widespread as Catholicism. It used to
be despised (Lord Salisbury's sneer about “Cory-
bantic Christianity” was just the kind of remark
made by aristocratic Romans before Constantine’s
conversion), but now its influence is recognised by
statesmen everywhere. It used to function in streets
and alleyways, and it is moving into buildings of
the cathedral type. But most striking of all is the
change that has come tiver the faces of the Army’s
preachers. They used to be earnest —and beyond
that nothing much. Their eyes registered fanaticism
and their foreheads and chins foolishness. Not so
the typical Salv’army’s ecclesiastic of to-day. He
is a shrewd, level-headed, square-jawed man of the
world, who understands business as well as he does
the Bible. All the Army needs to do now is to
convert one or two dukes, and it will take definite
rank amongst the world-religions.
THE LOST LURE OF LEGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Once trim and neat
And shapely feet
Beneath two ankles pretty,
Would centralise
No end of eyes
Upon them in the city.
But now so curt
Becomes the skirt
Of Ermyntrude or Ella
Her legs are free
For all to see
As high as the patella.
How tight it fits
Whene’er she sits,
No matter how she drape it!
Too well she knows
In every pose
She simply will escape it.
Each week I think
It seems to shrink;
No sign of it descending;
But do girls know
How much they show,
Especially when bending?
Though hints of knees
And calves may please,
Too frequent views are cloying.
Enough’s a feast.
Too much has ceased
To warrant our enjoying.
N.s.w.
A. H. A.


USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
ENGAGEMENT RINGS
WfcvM&T&S
€2O
ISIS?
€2O
€2O
€2O
€2O
€2O
SOME OF OUR NEWEST DIAMOND DESIGNS
PLAIN
FIGURES-
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS U D
23-25 HUNTER ST.
\Jrie Oldest JeuteU&w tfouuse cn Sudrmu
CASH
ONI*
The Equitable Life Assurance
Company of Australasia, Ltd.
Authorised Capital, £200,000.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
BRANCHES:
N.S.W.: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victoria: 360 Collins St., Melbourne.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some January birthdays :
David Watterston (Melb. Arqcs), 84, and Prof.
Gilbert Murray (Oxford), 63, on 2nd; Col. Hurley
(Commonwealth Medical Services), 41, on 3rd; O.
P. Frv (Sunday Times, Perth), 50, on 4th; Bishop
Newton (New Guinea), 63, and Fred Young (S. Aus.
ex Agent-General), 53, on sth; Arthur Searcy (S.
Aus.), 77, and pastoralist Edmund Jowett, 71, on
6th ; Rev. Dr. Geo. Davidson (Presbyterian minister,
Adel.), 74, and artist Neville Cayley, 43, on 7th;
artist Sydney Ure Smith, 42, on 9th ; Q’land Speaker
Bertram, 54, on 11th; Prof. Walter Howchin (Adel.),
84, on 12th; Archbishop Spence (Adel.), 69, and
Prof. Chapman (Syd. Uni.), 50, on 13th; perpetual
Minister Pearce, 59, on 14th; Methodist minister
Dr. Bromilow, 72, on 15th; Brig.-Gen. Foott, 53,
W. S. KENT HUGHES, M.L.A., Secretary
to the new Victorian Cabinet.
and violinist Daisy Kennedy, on 16th; Prof. Rad-
cliffe Brown (Syd. Uni.), 48, on 17th ; Knight
Clifton Love, 61, on 18th; naturalist Harry Burrell,
56, on'l9th; Owen Cox, 63, on 21st; Agent-Gen.
Fuller, 68, Colonel J. M. Arnott, 60, and 0. von
Rieben (Adel.), 66, on 22nd; W.A. Chief Justice
McMillan, 71, Brig.-Gen. Blarney (Vic. Police Com-
missioner), 45, H. Macartney (Q’land), 66, and
Ethel Turner, on 24th; Baronet Lionel Brown (Qui-
rindi), 54, and D. F. Denham (former Q. Premier),
70, on 25th; W. J. George, M.L.A. (W.A.), .and
S. E. Lamb, K.C., 65, on 26th ; artist Julian Ashton,
78, and Prof. Cumbrae Stewart (Q’land Uni.), 64,
on 27th; Justice Kenneth Street, 39, on 28th;
pastoralist Arthur B. Triggs, 61, on 30th; Dr. R.
J. Tillyard (Commonwealth Government Entomo-
logist), 48, journalist Guy Innes, 47, and A. S. le
Souef (Syd. Zoological Gardens), 52, on 31st.
John Beverly Peden was the best avail-
able successor to the late Fred Flowers as
President of N.S.W. Leg. Council. He is
spare, active and youthful-looking at 58; a
first-class constitutionalist and a figure of
dignity and determination. As Challis Pro-
fessor of Law at Sydney Uni. (where he
distinguished himself in the ’nineties) Peden
achieved a reputation as a martinet, but he
was popular amongst the undergrads, as
he has always been at the Bar. He has
never figured prominently in party politics;
almost his only public appearances were
during the war, when he advocated conscrip-
tion. The Bar is glad to see him get out of
the way of a judgeship; it fears that he
would be too pedantic on the Bench.
Frank Clarke, president of the Vic. Uppish
House, has been given leayc till September to
enable him to do a little globe-trotting
during the recess and afterwards. He wants
to be in England when April’s there, to spend
a vacation with his • son, •who is at Cam-
bridge, and to consult a Harley-street
specialist about his leg, which has been
troublesome in the last year or two. Frank’s
brother Russell had a fancy for the Agency-
General in 1926, and may have a chance now,
but Edgar is running strongly.
Adelaide has lost one of its favorite doc-
tors, W. T. Hayward, at 74. Dr. Hayward
was one of the founders of the local 8.M.A.,
being president in 1885 and again in 1910;
he was also president; of the Federal organ-
isation for some years. A crack rifleshot,
he was prominent in the Defence Force, and
in the Great War he moved on from France
to command the big hospital at Harefield.
A kindly periodical talk to young medical
graduates on what to do and not to do in
their profession was one of the many acti-
vities of a man who loved his fellowmen.
Despite the racking effects of the North
Queensland climate, W. A. Ackers, of Towns-
ville, looked healthy enough when he arrived
in Sydney the other day; and he has turned
81. Ackers first hit Townsville as mate of a
windjammer in 1869, and he was hot on the
heels of Hugh Mosman when Hugh dis-
covered Charters Towers. Running his
tracks over the range, • Ackers also set in
on the goldfield; he did little good there,
however, and returned to Townsville, where
business filled up what time was not occu-
pied by his hobby, the Naval Brigade. Ho
is a retired licut.-commander, R.A.N.
An old Kalgoorlie identity passed out last
week in J. E. C. Auldjo, one of the most
likeable and sociable of all the multitudin-
ous Scots w T ho drove in their pegs on the
W estralian goldfields a generation ago.
Auldjo came from India to Australia, and
after' a few years at Kanowna (where he
was in the Secret Nugget rush) he drifted
on to Kalgoorlie. For many years he was
mining editor of the local Sun and a regu-
lar contributor to The Bulletin. He
knew everybody in the mining life of the
fields, and most of what there was to be
known about the big shows of the Golden
Mile and the lesser ones outside. Mining
reporters aren’t always wildly popular, but
there was nobody but had a good word for
“ ’Jo,” and in Kalgoorlie itself he was some-
thing more than a resident —he had become
a cherished institution.
As a young Scot, W. D. Stewart, who
succeeds Henry Braddon as Dalgety and
Co.’s Australian superintendent, learned the
rudiments of the wool business in Bradford,
and went to France and Germany to extend
his knowledge. In 1890 he arrived in Maori-
land as member of the staff of Murray
Roberts and Co. Dalgcty’s secured him in
1901, and since 1916 he has been the great
co.’s M.L. superintendent. Fie was the
Massey Government's adviser on wool mar-
keting during the war.
J. D. Porter, who was Bob Elliott’s secre-
tary in the recent Vic. Senate campaign and
has worked for Harry Gullett and other suc-
cessful politicians, will be a candidate for
Oakleigli at the next State election. Porter is a
journalist, and was a. Digger for four years.
He is a son of the late Warrant-Officer J. W.
Porter., who looked after the Williams-
town rifle ranges for 42 years and was a
great marksman in his day.
Jeremiah Charles Scanlon is dead in Maori-
land, whose best-known gaoler lie was. When
he was leaving Waiotapu prison camp the
inmates decided to recognise his worth. An
artist among them procured a child’s box of
paints and called on the others to contribute
t.ufts of their hair. Some were tangled, some
coarse and some fine. After classifying the
wool he mounted the different grades on
sticks and produced a painting. It was not a
work of academic merit, but Jerry treasured
it for the rest of his life.
Jim Ferguson, a Thursday Island identity,
was one of a little band that had a three
days’ spin without water on an Endeavor
Strait island, hostile natives having pinched
the long boat. The men caught turtles for
meat, but were gasping for water when a
Jap lugger picked them up. Jim was in the
water-police when faction fights were common
among the Malays, Kanakas, Rotomah
men and so forth during the three months’
lay-up. Knives, crowbars, tomahawks, spears,
clubs and revolvers, with teeth and claws
when a man was down, were the favorite
weapons; and hundreds would join in. Eighty
soldiers with fixed bayonets were called out
to suppress one fight.
P. McCosker, Mayor of South Grafton
(N.S.W.), is an instance of history re-
peating itself. Thirty-six years ago to the day
on which he was elected, lie reached the town
which has made him its chief magistrate.
Like Dick Whittington he was broke to
the wide, but instead of the stick and bundle
carried by the principal boy in the panto-
mime he shouldered a dinkum Australian
bluey.
E. A. RANSOM, Minister of Public Works
in IOUseph Ward’s new M.L. Govern-
ment.
Birdman Ulm is the grandson of a camera-
man who came from France under engage-
ment to a leading Melbourne photographer of
the period; he was paid what was considered
an enormous salary in those days—£l6 a
week. The old man had simple tastes, and
when he returned to Paris to spend his
declining years he was well-to-do. E. G.
Ulm, the aviator’s father, is also a photo-
grapher ; he has worked most of his life in
Sydney. His hobby is designing boats.
Two Maorilanders, C. F. Gardiner and C.
M. O’Brien, who went to England on a
combined business and pleasure trip 15
months ago, have found their stay profitable.
Hearing that the Admiralty was looking for
a device that would mechanically code and
decode wireless messages under conditions
ensuring complete secrecy, they weighed in
with one which lias been accepted, and have
divided over *lO,OOO as the result of their
ingenuity. They are now at work on a
device in which' wireless, the printing tele-
graph and the secrecy principle are to be
combined to give the world the wireless
letter.
While Premier of Vic. for 18 months Ned
Hogan built up a status for himself, hut
during four weeks as Opposition leader be-
fore the recess he became a bore and made
members yawn. Already there is talk of
Parliamentary Labor pruning Hogan’s comb
next session. Of the other Labor ex-Minis-
ters in the Assembly Slater commands most
respect on the Ministerial side. Tunnecliffe
is unconvincing, Bailey too bitter, Lemmon
too ordinary, Webber too snappy and cock-
sure and Prendergast too old.
Bill Ashley, the new Mayor of Lithgow
(N.S.W.), is a bookmaker, like J. M. Dun-
ningliam, M.L.A. for Coogee (N.S.W.), who
was Mayor of Randwick last year. Ashley
saw service in S'Africa, and has been a
Lithgow alderman since 1911. At the caucus
pre-selection meeting he defeated Bpb Pil-
lans, M.L.C., who has been 13 times Mayor
of the steel town.
A bit of local history is recalled by the
death of J. H. Scholz the second at Nuriootpa
(S.A.). Seventy-odd years ago G. F. Angas
broke a leg, and ordinary surgical treat-
ment failed. .T. H. Scholz, a neighbor, urns
called in, being highly esteemed by the
German immigrants as a bone-setter, and he
put the broken pieces together again. In
gratitude he was set up in an unconventional
hospital, which was carried on by him till
his death in 1912, and by his son and name-
sake since.
The geographers of old would have leaped
with joy if they had been told that they
could be wafted over the most inaccessible
regions of the earth at a vast height and at
terrific speed, and yet with adequate facili-
ties for setting down everything they saw
with scientific precision. Together with
Eielson, his American partner and pal, Aus-
tralia’s George Wilkins has added laurels to
his crown by his methodically-recorded
flight over Graham Land, a section of the
vast Antarctic conglomeration of rock and
ice that had previously baffled explorers; it
will now figure on the map’s as an island.
Wilkins celebrated his fortieth birthday only
a few weeks ago. This is his second visit
to the Antarctic; he went there as a mem-
ber of the British Imperial expedition the
year after he returned to Australia from
the war (with the M.C. and bar)_ as navi-
gator of the Blackburn Kangaroo ’plane.
McDonalds, all unrelated, filled the three
principal places in the agriculture class at
Hawkesbury College this year. One comes
from Dover (Eng.), another from Ardlethan
(N.S.W.) and the third from Maclean
(N.S.W.). They were the clan’s only repre-
sentatives in a class of 30, and Hawkesbury
claims the sequence of names to be unique
in examination results in the higher N.S.W.
scholastic institutions.
Bishop Bevan, of Brecon, who is visiting
Sydney, found a friend waiting for him at
the wharf —Albert Bruntnell, the Colonial
Secretary. When Bruntnell played with the
football fifteen of a Welsh hamlet and taught
in Sunday-school, the present visitor was the
local parson and leading pati'on of the village
sports.
J. J. Cohen, Judge of the N.S.W. District
Court, will follow Scholes, .T., into retire-
ment this year ; he will be 70 on December
20. ’Sonah, who was born in Grafton,
was an engineer and architect in early man-
hood ; he did not qualify for the Bar until lie
was 35. Four years later he entered the
State Parliament as member for Petersham,
and there he remained till 191.9, when he got
the judgeship.
Of N. S. Wales Judges Quarter Sessions
Chairman Coyle is the present long-distance
travelling champion—he covered 20,000
miles last year. But that record is easily
beaten by a youth named Jack Wadie, who
travelled 29,000 miles between Bowral and
the Granville (N.S.W.) Technical School in
the 12 months.
Elwood Mead, whom Australia has reason
to remember with gratitude, though N.S.W.
ignored his advice to make its irrigation
areas a great topping-off place for stock,
is now chief of the reclamation service of the
U.S. Department of the Interior, and as
such is to have the supervision of the great
Boulder Dam in the Black Canyon of Colo-
rado, for which the Federal Government
is advancing 165 million dollars. It will
be Mead’s biggest job, and he enters upon
it, with one coat-sleeve empty, in his 70th
year.
“D.” : A writer in the S. M. Herald says
of the British Prime Minister that “history
will assuredly and deservedly give him fame
as an orator.-” History may, but those who
have heard him orating will not. Like Dean
Inge, he reads what he has to say, but
unlike the Dean he has a habit of getting
his slips mixed up. The truth about the
Prime Minister is that he is one of the
hardest speakers to listen to in English
public life. Of course his speeches read
well; they are written in full, and corrected
to a comma.
DAVID GILBERT FERGUSON, Senior
Puisne Judge of N. S. Wales, who is
to take Chief Justice Street’s place
while the latter takes 12 months’ leave.
“Clifford Snook”: The last British king
before George V. on whom a serious opera-
tion was performed was Charles I. Also
the previous Prince of Wales who hurried
to the King’s bedside was Prince Hal (if
legend is correct), but he wanted to see
whether the crown would fit. “Uneasy lies
the head that wears a crown,” and if a
king wears it in bed, as Henry IV. apparently
did, uneasiness is only to be expected.
’TWENTY-NINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Old Year, groaning, pulls his freight
Along the last, lone strip of line.
The stroke of midnight we await
From Portland (Vic.) to Palestine,
Yours is, mayhap, a sip of wine,
Mine is, for sure, a pewter 'straight
To wet the “Ave, Twenty-Nine !”
And smooth the “ Vale , Twenty-Eight!”
We’ve aged—a year. But why repine?
Still toothsome cakes are on the plate.
And ale —was ever ale more line
Than this o’er which I celebrate
Another year of love and hate,
Of joy and w T oe, of rain and shine?
“Rest with your forebears, Twenty-
Eight!
Here’s a voire sant6, Twenty-Nine!”
What will you bring me in your crate?
A crown of bay—or hop—or vine
Around this ever-whitening pate
Blithely or sullenly to twine?
No use to grin and less to whine,
The gods are just and Fate is Fate.
“Right pleased to meet you, Twenty-Nine !
Vade in pace, Twenty-Eight!’’
Across the moor in years lang syne
The New Year rode alert, elate
(That’s Tennysonian, I opine),
Rut scarce had time to reach the gate
Before the Old laid down the weight
Of weary months with glazing eync....
“Your bolt is shot, old Twenty-Eight!
Walk in and welcome, Twenty-Nine!”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Do You Keep Power Transmission Records?
rv^
B
Figures regarding the belts used on every drive in
your factory will sometimes disclose power leaks that
should be stopped; drives on which the belts w T ear
out much more rapidly than they should; drives that
are a. source of trouble through faulty Belting
Equipment.
The user of
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
is assured of the quality and serviceability of his belting equipment—of
efficiency, long life and low cost of upkeep.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
J. C. LUDOWICI <SL SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Tanners and Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell & Sons,
Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland.
Patterson & .Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
Get your
©*#«*%
PAINTS and
VARNISHES
from
AGENTS
EVERYWHERE.
THEY ” KEEP ON KEEPING ON!"
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The National Mutual Life Association of
Australasia.
Ex- Writ- Added to
Sept., .Income. Claims. penses. ten Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1900.. 524,121 294,974 87,779 690 140,678
1905.. 762,906 361,053 138,370 963 262,520
1910.. 1,122,667 441,323 168,511 3640 509,193
1915.. 1,555,268 697,173 165,655 692.440
1918.. 1,921,765 876,989 204,737 - 840,039
1919. . 2,116,562 1,063,275 237,716 815,571
1920.. 2,352,957 832,177 275,846 1,244,934
1921.. 2,519,203 912,321 262,925 1,343,957
1922. . 2,722,513 969,145 267,064 1,486,304
Equitable of LLS.A. business taken over.
1923.. 3,940,177 1,343,406 286,188 206 2,310,377
1924.. 3,260,737 1,460,483 303,336 1,496,913
New York Life business taken over.
1925.. 4,278,979 1,704,680 332,209 6899 2,235,191
Added to Investment Reserve, £8779
1926.. 4,080,629 1,755,060 350,363 1,975,206
Added to Investment Reserve, £7123.
1927.. 4,378,799 1,882,250 372,850 2,123,699
Added to Investment Reserve, £7226.'
1928.. 4,930,596 2,075,058 414,361 2,441,177
It took 40 years for income to pass the
million-pound mark. In the next 10 years
the figure was doubled, and since 1919 the
annual harvest has much more than
doubled. And that expansion has been
accomplished without the aid of any indus-
trial business whatever. The specially remark-
able growth over the last nine years is due in
part to the solid blocks of insurance digested
when the Australian businesses of the
Equitable and later the New York Life were
taken over, partly to the very solid reputa-
tion of the society in its homeland and
partly to the energy and enterprise of the
management, which has carried the business
far afield. More than one-third of the annual
income is gathered outside Australia —from
Maoriland, S. Africa, Britain, Ireland,
India, Ceylon and the Straits Settlements —
but whether it is all got at the same cost as_
the Australian income and is of equal quality
is another matter. However, it was pro-
bably an important factor in last year's leap
of £423,471 in the net premium income
(£3.381,342). The increase was more than
double that of the previous term, despite
financial stringency and other things that
made policy writing in Australia difficult. The
growing popularity of the probate policy and
the attention given to group insurance are
other factors that have helped the figures
along.
After paying all exes, and claims and add-
ing £7226 to the investments fluctuation re-
serve, making it £123,129, no less than
£2,441,177, or, approximately half the year’s
total income, remained in the business,
advancing the assurance fund to £29,147,330
at Sept. 30.
Last year £9,807,845 of additional cover
was taken out under 20,668 policies, and that
was over 1J million more than was written
under 16,793 policies in the previous 12
months, when only 6.7 p.c. of the total
was endowment; the proportion was 10.5
p.c. last year, and the average amount per
policy was £474 as against £490 in 1927 and
£256 in 1911. Although policy-holders have
thus increased the average amount of their
cover by 85 p.c. in the last 17 years, it has
to be remembered that the cost of living has
moved up 79 p.c. over the same period.
Nevertheless the management has been
able to make some worth-while cuts in the
cost of writing new business, as the next
comparisons show;—
Exes. New
• New Chargeable Business
Business to New Expense
Sept., Premiums. Business. 'Rate.
1900 .. £40,939 £64,767 158.2 p.e.
1910 .. 114,195 119,426 104.6 „
1915 . . 118,357 97,229 82.1 „
1920 . . 250,796 176,694 70.5 „
1923 . . 222,136 162,348 73.1 „
1924 . . 233,517 168,788 72.2 ..
1925 .. 255,402 184,547 72.2 ~
1926 . . 276,814 187,326 67.6 „
1927 . . 297,301 199,806 67.2 „
1928 . . 340,930 223,424 65.5 „
The calculations are based on the assump-
tion that old business takes 7 p.c. of the
renewal premiums and that single premiums
cost 3 p.c.; the balance of each year’s exes,
being charged against new business. The
65.5 p.c. means that a trifle more than one-
third of even the first year’s new premiums
is available to earn something against the
inevitable day when policies become claims.
Another thing that has helped the cost rate
down has been the growth in single pre-
miums. These amounted to only £5363 in
1911; they were £608,079 last year, and that
was no less than £254,865 more than the
1927 figure.
Here is a costs view of the business as a
whole:—
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1905.. £lB 2 9 p.c. [ 1924.. £9 6 1 p.e.
1910. . 15 0 3 „ ! 1925. . 715 2 „
1915’. . 10 13 0 „ 1926. . 811 8 ~
1920.. 11 14 6 „ 1927.. 8 10 2 „
1923. . 912 9 „ 1928. . 8 8 0 „
That £8 Bs. is an exceptionally low rate:
it places the National amongst Australia’s
best.
Moreover, the claims experience has been
exceptionally favorable. Last year it was
only 57.9 p.c. of expectancy compared with
58 p.c. and 61 p.c. in the two preceding
years. Hence the office will receive more
premiums than it figured upon, and interest
earnings will benefit by the amount realised
on the suspended payments.
The office figures that its funds will bring
in a future net return of 34 p.c. After
paying rates and taxes last year's £1,549,048
of interest earnings, rents, etc., was actually
£5 11s. p.c. on mean funds:—
Interest. Earned on Average Funds.
1900.. £4 13 2 p.c. I 1925.. £5 11 3 p.c.
1910.. 412 3 „ I 1926.. 511 6
1920. .5 3 8,, | 1927. . 510 9 „
1924.. 5 9 4 „ 1 1928.. 511 0 ~
The surplus over the 3J p.c. was enough to
pay the total expenses of the business for
the year and then leave £157,500-odd over.
That and the highly-favorable mortality ex-
perience must spell bigger bonuses.
Funds at Sept. 30 were invested in these
proportions:—
’l4. ’2O, ’25. ’26. ’27. ’2B.
p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Public securities . . 6.9 39.9 43.2 43.8 39.8 37.7
Mortgages . . . . 59.3 34.8 27.7 26’.6 28.3 29.2
Foreclosures . . . . 0.6 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.8 0.8
Freeholds . . . . 9.9 6.0 4.9 4.8 5.0 4.7
Loans on policies . . 9.4 7.8 14.3 12.4 13.6 15.6
Other assets .. .. 13.9 11.3 9.7 12.4 12.5 12.0
hast year £171,307 was added to Government
securities (£11,204,354) ; but more atten-
tion was given to mortgages; loans on poli-
cies, etc. (£5,482,517), increased £890,817,
and an extra £879.598 was put out on ordi-
nary mortgage (£8,700,742). The Associa-
tion’s holding in the Fourth Victoria Build-
ing Society (£330.296), which pays 12 p.c.,
has been increased by £87,238 over the last
four years.
The British Tobacco Co. (Australia), Ltd.
, Dividends N
6 p.c. To Re- Re-
Profits. Pref. Ordinary. serves, serves.
Jan., £ £ £ £ £
1916.. 538,532 89,084 12 p.c.= 443,495 5953 30,451
1917.. 536,974 89,084 12 „ „ 447,175 715 31,166
1918.. 539,543 89,084 12 „ „ 449,562 897 32,063
1919.. 541,951 89,084 12 „ „ 451,762 1105 33,168
1920.. 544.773 89,084 12 „ „ 454,587 1102 34,270
1921.. 582,979 89,084 12 ~ ~ 491,987 1908 36,178
Special div. from subsidiaries, £628,591,
distributed, as bonus shares.
1922.. 751,373 89,084 12 p.c.= 661,067 1222 37,400
1923.. 773,202 89,084 12 „ ~ 682,400 1718 39,118
1924.. 776,535 89,084 12 „ „ 685,844 1607 40,725
1925.. 779,452 89,084 12 „ ~ 689,034 1334 42,059
1926.. 783,453 89,084 12 „ „ 692,684 1685 43,744
1927.. 786,876 89,084 12 ~ ~ 696,354 1438 45,182
Co reconstructed; shares in subsi-
-12 mths. diaries written up £2,324,131, and
to that amount capitalised.
Oct., 64 p.c.
1928.. 916,506 96,507 10 p.c. = 813,446 6553 7,659
Big changes have taken place in the figures
since the books were ruled off at Jan. 31,
1927. These changes were not wholly unex-
pected ; in fact, the market had long antici-
pated . events and was growing obviously
impatient at the board’s delay in distribut-
ing some of the, sweets which were sus-
pected of being piled high behind the curtain
the. co.. keeps drawn over the money-making
activities of its subsidiaries.
This suspected pressure of profits was
relieved by the issue of bonus scrip in the
proportion of two for five to those on the
ordinary register a little over a year ago
The gift called for the large sum of
4,1.51, and was provided by writing up
the book value of the co.’s holdings in the
subsidiaries*by that amount; thus bringing
the entry at least that much nearer its real
value.
To begin with, and in order to gain some
relief from taxation, the registered office
was transferred from London to Melbourne.
This was done by the old co., which was
capitalised at £7,295,055 in 1,484,727 6 p.c
cum. prefs. and 5,810.328 ords., selling the
whole of its assets, after the shareholdings
had been written up, to a new co., the Con-
solidated Investment Co., Ltd., which was
registered in Melbourne for the purpose.
Then the new co. handed out seven of its
ords. for every five held in the old co.. whose
pref. holders were given the option of taking
up new 6$ p.c. cum. prefs. on a share-for-
share basis, or of being paid off in cash.
Apparently they all converted; thus paid
capital at Oct. 31 became £9.619.186 in
1,484,727 6-f p.c. prefs. and 8,134,459 ords.
All this complete, the Investment Co.
changed its name by hanging up the old
sign—British Tobacco Co. (Australia), Ltd.
—and a 10 p.c. div. was declared ; the old
co. paid a regular 12 p.c. However, 10 p.c.
is now worth as much as 14 p.c. would have
been before the gift-giving. That and the
extra half-point to the prefs. added £124 515
to the annual div. requirements. But there
was a spring of £129,630 in last year's ex-
hibited profits, which mounted to £916.506;
so the customary practice of disclosing little
more than sutncient for immediate require-
ments has not been departed from. Also the
directors give their usual assurance that the
figures do not iilclude the co.’s interests in
the undistributed profits of the subsidiaries.
Precisely what size these accumulations are
can only be guessed at by those outside.
That the pile must be pretty substantial and
that it is bringing in juicy returns is demon-
strated by the fact that the div. has been
lifted a point to 11 p.c. since the books were
last ruled off. This will add another £81,344
to the current year’s requirements, and make
the return equal to 15.4 p.c. on old holdings.
Here is as much of the position as the
parent discloses:—
1927. 1928.
Shares in subsidiaries (book
value) £5,398,061 £7,722,192
Commonwealth loans . . . . 350,000 345,050
Book debts 1,635,356 1,548.954
Cash 12,321 13,234
The amalgamation, which dates back to 1903,
includes the British Australian Tobacco Co.
(which combined the Cameron and part of
the Dixson businesses), the States Tobacco
Co. (which embraced Sutton and Co. and
Jacobs, Hart and Co., and the other part
of the Dixson business) and W. D. and H. O.
Wills (Australia). Later the printing, etc.,
business of S. T. Leigh and Co. was added
to the list. For more than 10 years out-
siders were not allowed in. Even though
they have since become interested they get
no information. But that has not dis-
couraged the market, which looks at the
size of the undertaking—on published figures
its paid capital and visible resei'ves now
exceed those of the big C.S.R. —the fact that
the co. has virtually a monopoly of the trade,
and that for the second time in the last
seven years sweets have been distributed,
apparently without overdoing it.
So notwithstanding the 40 p.c. scrip gift,
which, of course, has greatly enhanced the
capital value of old holdings, and a sub-
stantial rise in the amount received as divi-
dends, the market heavily mortgages the
future by paying 455. for* the pound ords.
At that figure the return is a whisper under
5 p.c. on an 11 p.c. div. basis. The strongly-
protected prefs. are valued on a 5.4 p.c.
basis. Thus the market capitalises the
undertaking at over £20.000,000.
Carlton and United Breweries, Ltd.
(Melbourne).
, Dividends
Pref. Ovd. To Re- Nominal
Profit. 7 p.c. 7 p.c. serves. Reserves.
1919.. 128,814 7,000 70,000 49,314 354,588
• 10 p.c.
1920.. 135,302 7,000 100,000 25,802 380.390
71 p.c.
1921.. 149,884 7,500 100,000 39,884 120,274
10 p.c.
1922.. 257,992 10,000 100,000 145,492 565.766
15 p.c. 15 p.c.
1923.. 253,811 15,000 150,000 86,311 652,077
1924.. 274,115 15,000 150,000 106.615 758,692
Share premiums, £25,0'i,-j . . 783,692
1925.. 298,405 30,000 168,750 97,155 880,84 7
16} p.e. 16} p.c.
1926.. 410,260 32,500 284.375 93,385 974,232
171 p.c. 171 p.c.
1927.. 439,521 35,000 306,250 98,271 1,072,503
1928.. 445,920 35,000 306,250 104,670 1,177,173
As the eye sweeps down the profits column
in the table it is necessary to remember that
the co. greatly expanded its business and
tightened its grip upon the trade when, in
1925, it bought the hotel and brewing busi-
nesses of the very profitable Melbourne Co-
operative Brewery, Fitzgerald’s (Castle-
maine) and Cohn’s (Bendigo).
In. the beginning (1907) it took over the
Carlton, Castlemaine, Foster, Shamrock,
McCrackens and Victoria and paid £BOO.OOO
for goodwill, etc. For many years this item
—it still stands in the books at the original
figure—overshadowed the accounts, and as
recently as 1919 the div. was only 7 p.c.
But meanwhile much of the froth had been
displaced by surplus earnings invested in
revenue-producing assets of a tangible char-
acter. Then declared profits made decided
upward springs, reaching 24.9 p.c. on aver-
age capital in 1924, or more than double
the ratio (11.7 p.c.) five years earlier.
The results, or part of the results, of the
1925 purchases—they added £850.000 to paid
capital, making it £1,950,000 —are reflected
in the continued expansion of profits. Last
year’s net result was 23.4 p.c. on capital
compared with 23.1, 21-6 and 22.5 p.c. in
the three preceding years. The div., which
had climbed to 15 p.c. in 1923, has been at
p.c. for the last 2| years. In addition
reserves have more than doubled in the last
six years.
Incidentally, the p. and 1. figures are writ-
ten after provision has been made for bad
and doubtful debts, taxation and deprecia-
tion. And it may be taken for granted that
something has been tucked away for in-
visible contingencies as well. Next year a
State-wide poll will be taken on the liquor
question in Victoria, where the Dry forces
will require a GO p.e. majority to carry the
day. If recent history in N. S. Wales,
Queensland and Maoriland can be accepted
as a guide, it seems unlikely that the trade
in the southern State will be interfered
with, so the market for brewery scrip is
undisturbed. Nevertheless, the co. cannot
be quite sure how much it might be called
upon to spend in order to protect its invest-
ments.
How well equipped it really is to meet
contingencies is obvious from this compari-
son :
1924. 1927. 1928.
Assets other thun
goodwill, freeholds
and plant .. £923,369 £1,705,603 £1,806,018
Less liabilities .. 280,601 393,511 400,476
Net liquids .. £642,768 £1,312,092 £1,405,542
Thus in the last four years tin- more-or-less
liquid surplus has been strengthened by no
less than £7G2,774. Last year the improve-
ment was £03.450.
I lore is a more detailed view of the posi-
tion :
1924. 1927. 1928.
Sundry creditors .. £168,078 £277,003 £284,349
Deposits 112,523 114 210
Mortgages .. .. 116,394 115,917
Purchase consideration
(including goodwill) 800,000 800,000 800,000
Brewery freeholds . . 103,393 248,065 252,682
Hotel freeholds . . 126,486 454,403 408,555
Book debts, etc. . . 602,832 844,251 837,174
Stocks and Excise stamps 201,027 316,829 324,674
Plant, etc 271,043 380,524 422,187
Leaseholds .. .. 543 11,330
Cash, investments, etc. 119,510 544,522 644,170
The brisker trading over the last four years
shows up in the remarkable expansion in
the book values of hotel freeholds and book
debts. Hotel properties are in at valuation,
and last year there was a ..shrinkage of
£45,848 in the figures. If portion of the
properties was sold the profit, if any, was
whisked away to inner reserves. During
the year £41,663 more was spent on plant
than was written off, and the brewery free-
holds are being steadily added to. Shares
in other cos. (£83,346), up £80,641 in the
last two years, mostly represent the holding
in a co. which deals in hotel freeholds.
Of the £1,950,000 of paid capital 200,000
is in 7 p.c. profs., which advance with the
ords. in any distribution beyond that rate.
The market’s interest in the scrip is mainly
through the five holding cos. whose shares
are listed. The next table shows the posi-
tion in this respect:—
Holding Market Re-
Paid in Div. Price turn
Capital. C.U.B. p.c. Scrip. p.c.
Carlton . . £816,992 £631,704 14 49/- 5.7
Castlenmine. 175,000 117,414 141 38/6 6.5
Foster .., 57,600 83,049 241 69/- 7.1
Shamrock . . 78,525 83,049 17 48/- 7.1
McCracken’s 41,625 41,625 45/6
The McCracken Trust was only recently
listed, and the div. rate and reserve posi-
tion have not yet been published. All the
other cos. have accumulated reserves of their
own. At last balancing dates these were:
Carlton, 4s. 4d. per share; Castlemaine, 3s.
5d.; Foster, 12s. 2d.; Shamrock, 7s. Id. In
addition each C.U.B. share had reserves of
its own amounting to 12s. Id., including
goodwill, etc., at June 30 last.
Myer Emporium (S.A.), Ltd.
, Dividends ,
, , „ Prefs. To Re- Re-
. July, Profits. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1924.. 54,092 23,956 8 p.c..= 16,000 14,136 58.792
1925.. 38,411 27,790 5 „ „ 10,000 621 59,413
1926.. 30,534 27,790 Nil 2,744 62,157
1927.. 39,409 27,790 p.c. = 11,000 619 62,776
1928.. 36,061 27,790 Nil 8,271 71,047
It used to be James Marshall and Co., Ltd.,
the well-established Adelaide drapery business
which was built up by old James Marshall
and the Taylors. But James Marshall being
now no more, shortly after the close of last
accounts the big Myer Emporium, Ltd., Mel-
bourne, bought all the 200,000 ord. shares,
and therefore control, and the name was
changed.
No hint has been given as to what was
paid for the shares. The Marshalls and
Taylors floated the business into a public co.
in 1918; five years later £141,573 of reserves
w’as capitalised, and in the following vea r
(1924) 100,000 7 p.c. A prefs. were offered
and snapped up, thus making paid capital
£597,000. The new money was used mainly
to reduce the debt; later alterations were
made to the Bundle-street property, and a
new building was put up adjoining the furni-
ture warehouse in Stephens-place. But earn-
ings were slow to respond; in 1924 9 p.c.
was netted; since then the ratio has never
exceeded 7 p.c. on capital.
Owing to difficult trading conditions gross
profits (£220,543) fell away £6686 for the
12 months to July 31 last; the cut in exes.
(£184,482) was only £3338, so the net result
was £3348 poorer than the 1927 figure, which
was the best since 1924. After handing the
prefs. their £27,790 employment was quickly
found for the balance of the year’s net earn-
ings (£8271), which was only 4.1 p.c. on the
ord. capital, in the business. That made


Safety
f
in tHe palm
of your Hand
Feel how this tread grips
when you press it down
t
J
'/
\\
V
/
/
%
FOR safety in a tyre you need
positive gripping power in
the tread of a tyre.
There is a very simple test by
which you can measure the
extra gripping power in the
famous All-Weather Tread.
The palm of your hand will
tell you.
Take an All-Weather Tread
Tyre just as it stands on
your Goodyear dealer’s floor —
unwrapped, uninflated.
Press down on its treaded
surface with the palm of your
hand.
Feel the responding grip and
pinch 'of those deep, thick,
sharp-edged diamond blocks!
In exactly the same way the
All-Weather Tread grips
and holds the road surface.
Eliminates skidding and side-
slip. Transmits full power.
Steers easily, steers straightly.
Rides safely!
The result is you get surer, safer,
swifter, easier riding when you
fit Goodyear Tyres made
with the famous All-Weather
Tread.
é


Don’t Lose
Your Money!
MORE THAN HALF
OF ALL REGISTERED
COMPANIES FAIL.
<r
If you invest anything
at all you can’t afford
to be without
“THE ‘WILD CAT
MONTHLY.”
JANUARY NUMBER ON SALE FRIDAY.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or “Bulletin** Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock GF + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
British • and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, F.C.P.A., Public Accountant, Victoria
Buildings, Swanston Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
Mining Plants. “The Arnold’’ Equipment for
spraying paint gives perfect finish, Australian made.
Write for Booklet “C’’ to R. W. Cameron and Co.
Inc., 24 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt
* * * ' *
The studied opinion of most experienced engineers
endorses Pioneer Wood Pipe for fluid conveying work
of any description. It is lower in cost than metal
pipes, is easier and cheaper to instal, and will resist
corrosion or fungus growth, with consequent full bore
capacity, during the whole of its long life. Write
for our descriptive book. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree
Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray,
Victoria.— Advt.
* * Me *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. R e id and Sons’,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
*' * * Me
Inventous. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hasssel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castiereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Codmson & Co., 483 Collins Street Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice, 'writ*
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* ❖ i|s jj.
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree.— Advt.
GILT-EDGED SECURITY
FOR ALL MOTORISTS
■' - 1 - -- - - » .. .. .. .. _
TRADE U MARK REGISTERED
LOOK FOR THE
“SILVER EDGE”
FOR TOURERS.
RAYBESTOS BELACO LTD.
LONDON.
e
LOOK FOR THE
“GOLD
EDGE”
FOR HEAVY DUTY.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Melb.
r
&
3 o ORR on
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
j
Swift & Company Ltd., Austrulasiun Agents. 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-Glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone,
etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
reserves £71,047—n0t much of a prop con-
sidering the size of the paid capital.
The past years quieter trading is reflected
in this comparison of balance-sheet figures:
1924. 1926. 1927. 1928
Capital .. £597,000 £597,000 £597,000 £597 000
Overdraft . . 70,374 96,363 1
Other lia- ) 186,545
bilities .. 86,375 80,969 81,070 j
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 340,109 353,902 351,747 351,201
Furniture,
plant, etc... 34,857 68,339 59,979 57 642
Stocks . . 256,420 278,564 256,882 264,897
Book debts . . 142,728 137,358 211,117 214,785
Cash .. .. 12,355 4,503 6,381 7*893
During the year £9112 was tacked on the
debt. Stocks were up £BOl5, but were still
£13,607 below the 1926 figure. No mention
is made as to the basis of valuation, but it
is believed to be conservative. Book debts
have grown £77,427 in the last two years.
That might mean that the old co. was devel-
oping a t.p. business. Including stocks, the
more or less liquid surplus (£301,030) was
£4083 stronger than at the close of accounts
in 1927.
Chief interest now centres in the change
in control. This is pretty certain to mean
a livelier turnover, and probably keener buy-
ing. So, provided exes, can be kept in hand
—and that seems likely—future profits should
benefit. Already provision is being made
for bigger business. Since the close of
accounts the co. has bought a freehold at the
south end of King William-street, Adelaide,
from Holden’s for £30,000. The four-storeyed
building thereon is to be used partly as a
garage and dispatch depot and partly as a
furniture and clothing factory.
In order to finance this deal and to pro-
vide for general expansion 200,000 new £1
ords. have been issued. They have air been
taken up by the big Myer co. in Melbourne.
It is, however, making 50,000 of them avail-
able on the Adelaide market at 21s. each,
but not more than 250 will be allotted to
any one applicant. This, of course, will
strengthen the position of the existing prefs.
When all the money on the new issue is in
paid capital will be £797,000 in 100,000 A
and 297.000 B prefs. and 400.000 ords. The
A and B shares—they rank in that order—
are entitled to a cumulative 7 p.c. and
have, priority as to capital. The net tangible
backing for the A's will amount to nearly
££), and for the B’s to £2 6s. lid. Last year’s
net profit was nearly 11 times their com-
bined annual requirements.
On the market the A’s are priced at 225. 3d.
and the B’s at 20s. 6d.: the return at those
figures being 6.3 p.c. and 6.8 p.c. respectively.
The ords. are not quoted.
c-arlton Hotel, Ltd. (Sydney).
> Dividends——— ■, Towards Norni-
„ . Net Pref. Re- nal Re-
l ct., Front. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
& ■ & £ £ £
1921.. 3,139 1600 2j( p.c. = 1500 39 39
1922.. 2,992 1600 Nil 1392 1 431
1923.. 5,111 1600 7 p.c. = 4200 742
1924.. 3,118 1600 Nil 1518 2,260
1925.. 7,631 1600 9 p.c. = 5400 631 2,891
1926.. 9,706 1600 10 „ ~ 6000 2106 4,997
1927.. 10,675 1600 10 „ „ 6000 3075 8,072
1928. . 12,006 1600 124 „ „ 7500 2906 10,978
For a while there was a danger that the
co. might hamstring itself by handing out
more than it could afford. Then, following
a change in the control, the figures improved,
and they have been consistently on the up
grade for the last four years. For the 12
months to Oct. 31 the spring in hotel earn-
ings, etc. (£44,715) was £1657 ; exes.
(£o2, <08) were only £326 heavier, so the
r:et result benefited by £1331. After setting
aside the pref. requirements the balance was
17.3 p.c. on ordinary capital compared with
15.1, 13.5, 10 and 2.5 p.c. back to 1924. A
2s p.c. bonus lifted last year’s distribution to
1-5 p.c.; thus the div. lias climbed rapidly,
tar too rapidly to be safe considering the
slenderness of the support—£lo,97B at Oct.
31. In addition there is a reserve of £19,578
set against the lease, license and goodwill,
all of which figured at £119,667 at the close
ot accounts in 1926.
The year’s result was written after £3OOO
bad been put by for taxation and “complete”
provision made for depreciation of leasehold
and plant, etc., says the chairman; and
much depends upon that, for a modern hotel
is a hungry animal in this regard. The lease
falls in in 1963. The £2895 earmarked for
amortisation, etc., last year will, if continued,
wipe out the figure at which the lease, license
and goodwill stood in the books when they
were ruled off in 1926. That is, of course,
provided the figure remains unaltered.
. p-^?S e * s are lumped in one entry
.(£185,418), up £18,735 during the year. The
lncreiise is mainly represented by a renovated
dining-room and lounge, and the current
year s earnings are expected to benefit; The
board went outside for £11.214 of the money,
increasing the debt to £66,031. The year’s
visible allowance for depreciation of fittings,
plant, etc., was only £1570, but something
may have been—probably was —spent on
renewals and charged up to working exes.
But the investment position has changed
completely since the close of accounts. A
new co., Carlton Investments, Ltd. —it was
v-AArivJ auncll - od with a nomina l capital of
tooo,ooo, the idea being to acquire a con-
trolling interest chiefly in hotel businesses —
is to take over all the 60,000 £1 ords. shares
in Carlton Hotel. For each of these it will
hand out one fully paid £1 7 p.c. cum. pref.
and two £1 ords. paid to 10s. each. Also
the whole of the 10,000 £1 ord shares in
the Eneber Investment Co., which holds
shares in another hotel co. (unnamed) and
is interested in real estate, are to be bought
on the same basis as the Carlton Hotel
shares. When these preliminaries are com-
plete the Investment co. will have a paid
capital of £140,000 in 70,000 prefs. and
140,000 ords. It is proposed to call the re-
maining £70,000 (making paid capital
£210,000) in order to complete a pending
deal, details of which have not been made
public; and a div. at the rate of 6 p.c. or
7 p.c. p.a. is spoken of for the ords.
Thus for scrip and cash totalling 40s. vendor
shareholders will receive pref. and ord. scrip
with a combined face value of 60s. in the
Investment co. So an all round 7 p.c. div.
would be equal to 10.5 p.c. on the face value
of the old scrip plus cash payments.
After measuring the risks, the market,
which paid 275. 6d. for Carlton Hotel ords.
a couple of months ago, lengthened the price
to 30s. following recent developments. At
the latter figure, and after allowing for the
exchange of scrip and the call, one pref. and
two ords. in the Investment co. will cost the
investor an average of 16s. Bd. each. The
return at that figure is 8.4 p.c. on a 7 p.c.
div. basis.
Sydney Cold Stores, Ltd.
W ritten To Ee- Re-
Oei., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1918.. 13,486 121 p.c. = 9,375 4105 G I,‘lOS
1919.. 18,122 15 „ „ 11,250 4120 2752 3,860
Co. reconstructed. Visible reserves capitalised,
and assets written up by apparently £71,000
and capitalised.
1920*. 7,879 10 p.c.=: 7,500 - 379 379
1921.. 13,466 6i „ „ 9,375 £3280 811 1,190
1922.. 10,124 3$ „ „ 5,625 3280 1219 2,409
1923.. 14,141 6i „ „ 9,375 3988 778 3,187
1924.. 9,639 3f „ „ 5,625 3275 739 3,926
1925.. 7,569 7.1„ „ 7,500 69 3,995
Assets written down, £46,000
Capital written off, £45,000.. .. 2,995
1926.. 11,377 7.1 p.c.= 7,500 1547 2330 5,325
1927.. 11,383 7.1 „ ~ 7,500 1602 2281 7,606
1928.. 15,963 10.6,, ~11,250 2301 2412 10,018
*Sfx months.
For the most part profits reflect conditions
in the cold-storage trade. Last year there
was a better demand for space, but more im-
portant than that is the fact that those in
the trade, who had for years past cut prices
so fine that there was little in the business,
agreed to fix charges at something approxi-
mating the old rates. The result is reflected
in a spring of £4580 in this co.’s profits.
After allowing for depreciation, shown as
written off in the table, enough was earned
last year to pay 13.2 p.c. on capital as
against 9.3 p.c. in 1927. So shareholders
got an extra 6d., making the rate 10.6 p.c.
for the year, and £2412 remained to
strengthen reserves, which, however, will
require to grow to more comfortable propor-
tions before the div. ‘can be said to look
secure.
Ice-skating, which the co. mixes with its
principal business during the winter months,
has proved a very profitable side-line. Re-
turns from this source are quite satisfactory,
the directors say, though just how much this
handy contributor brings into the pool is
not disclosed in the published figures.
Prior to 1920 shareholders received a run
of good divs., ranging from 10 p.c. to 15
p.c. p.a., and these were sweetened with
£lO,OOO of bonus scrip in 1915. Then, at the
height of the boom, the board decided to re-
construct. During the process assets were
written up approximately £71,000, and a 100
p.c. _ bonus-scrip issue followed; thus paid
capital took one leap from £75,000 to
£150,000. Thereafter conditions changed
rapidly, and profits, which had reached 24
p.c. on the old capital in 1919, withered
to 5 p.c. in 1925; and the pound shares were
quoted at 7s. 3d. on the market. To steady
the position £46,000 was lopped off the book
value of the chief earning assets, buildings
and plant, etc., and the accounts were
balanced by writing 6s. off each 20s. share.
Since then shareholders have averaged 8.3
p.c., equal to 11.6 p.c. on capital as it stood
immediately before the 1920 reconstruction.
Last year’s improved conditions are re-
flected in this comparison of balance-sheet
figures:—
1925. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital. . £150,000 £105,000 £105,000 £105,000
Liabilities . . 3,487 2,816 3,128 5,075
Land . . . . 35,000 35,000 35,000 35,000
Buildings,
plant, etc. 124,553 65,345 65,350 66,906
Book debts . . 2,640 4,188 . 5,341 7,026
Cash, etc. . . 15,899 17,655 20,692 27,860
During the term £1947 was added to the
debt; even so it is only £5075. On fixed assets
£1556 more was spent than was written off.
The year’s surplus earnings went into liquids
(£34,886, up £8854), thus leaving a surplus
of £29,812 over outside liabilities. The im-
provement over the 12 months amounted
to £6907.
The co. enjoys an advantage in the situa-
tion of its premises, but competition is still
keen. The market looks at the slender re-
serves, and, not being quite certain about the
future —especially perhaps of the ice-skating
side of the business —prices the fully paid
14s. shares at 14s. 6d.; a year ago they
were on offer at Bs. 6d. At the current price
the return is a shade over 10 p.c. as long as
the div. continues at Is. 6d. per share. The
backing, apart from the depreciation reserve
f£5450). amounts to 15s 4d. per share in
net tangibles—most of it in plant, etc., worth
what it can earn.
“Chev.”: If the claims made for a new
method of distillation are sound, the immense
deposits of brown coal at Yallourn (Vic.),
whose by-products now go up in smoke,
may yet make the Australian motorist inde-
pendent of imported oil, and give rise to some
new industries. The clapping of a fourpenny
tax on imported oil by Winston Churchill
has led to a frenzied search for an economical
method of distilling light oils from British
coal. The “L and N” system, due to a
Britisher named Lang and a Scandinavian
named Neilsen, is the one most favored. The
apparatus consists mainly of a revolving re-
tort into which the coal slack is poured.
Heated gas passed over the coal extracts
the oils, and the mixture of oil, gas and water
is separated in condensers. The crude oil
then goes to the refining tank; one ton of
slack giving four gallons of pitch, five gal-
lons of Diesel oil, two and half gallons of
lubricating oil, six gallons of tar, 31b. of
candles and two gallons of petrol. The
residual fuel is pulverised and is suitable for
raising steam power. Several British vessels
have used it, and the German Government
recently adapted 300 locomotives for its use.
The Brand system of pulverising, bunkering,
storing and burning this powdered coal has
passed official tests. It is the invention of
Engineer-Captain J. C. Brand, of the Aus-
tralian Navy.
* * *
“Crucible” : There are numerous graphite
deposits on Eyre’s Peninsula (S.A.). In
the area being worked by Graphite, Ltd., 10
miles from Port Lincoln, the graphite occurs
in seams irregularly distributed through much
altered country rock—probably an ancient
gneiss—and has been extensively drilled
by the South Australian Mines Department.
A mill capable of treating 6-7 tons per hour,
designed and erected by Wincey, of the
Central, Broken Hill, recently commenced
operations. The graphite is mined open-
cut, and the ore is “pickin’ ground,” so
mining costs should be low. In the treat-
ment Mineral Separation processes are used,
and the flow sheet is quite simple. A high
percentage of the graphite concentrate is
flake, and it is claimed that the finer material
can be profitably disposed of for foundry
facings.
* * * *
Westralia is hoping that the boring now
proceeding on the Big Bell, near Cue, will
locate a second Great Fingall. Some of the
core of the first bore has assayed fairly well,
and two other holes are being drilled. Open-
cutting in a primitive sort of way, the
Big Bell’s original owners failed to make ends
meet, and the Bank and Mines Department,
which followed them, didn’t do much better.
Then the late Dorrie Doolette had an un-
successful go. Recently the show was
acquired by Herman Mandelstam on behalf
of a couple of London investors, who pro-
vided the capital for the borehole prospect-
ing now in progress.
$ * it- *
Melbourne-controlled Sand Queen-Glad-
some Co. (W.A.) has run short of funds,
and is asking shareholders to find more.
There is plenty of gold in its mine at Comet
Vale, but so. far expenditure has swallowed
up returns. New men and new methods are
expected to right things before long. Mean-
while, the fate of the venture hangs in the
balance.
* * * *
In April last Ronpibon announced that
its Thalerm leases had been purchased by
Talerng Tin, an English co. with a capital of
£300,000, for £6OOO cash and 60,000 10s.
paids in a co. to be floated. Recently it was
announced that a hitch occurred in connec-
tion with the deal, but chairman Palfreyman
is confident that the matter will go through
on completion of the check boring of the
property. Since the close of accounts, at
June 30 last, Ronpibon has netted about
£5OOO, and £6777 has been spent on a new
bucket band. The sum of £13,000 shown
on the balance-sheet as owing to sundry credi-
tors included £12,000 advanced by directors.
The amount of £9680 shown as an asset in
connection with Thalerm stood for the ex-
penditure on the property. Income has
decreased partly owing to the small receipts
from Ronpibon Extended. The dredge is
approaching the original ground, which is
very clayey.
=!= * * *
The “Wild Cat Column’s” offspring, the
“Wild Cat” Monthly, has had a very suc-
cessful year. Originally it was asked for simply
as a handy form in which to preserve the
reviews printed in these pages. Soon, how-
over, it was found that it must go far beyond
that; and gradually it has been developed
to-day, though it still includes this
column s reviews, they comprise only one-
third of the published matter. The “Business
Biographies ’ are still a feature; in the
January number (on sale Friday, Jan 4)
the history of the Standard-Waygood co.
is dealt with. Every current subject of
interest in the financial world is handled;
and always is kept in the forefront the idea
of practical usefulness. The Monthly has
been described as “the Australian guide to
money-making”; and that is half of what
it aims at. The other half is to help save
investors—and especially small investors—•
from losing their capital. The number of
people who are willing to help them lose it
is nothing short of appalling.


AND HE WON’T BE HAPPY WHEN HE GETS IT.
SAIREY BRUCE GAMP: “Give him his bottle. They all grows up on the bottle in this country, the little dears!”
Poverty
Point
“J.C.” : The Cambridge Festival Theatre,
England, has an idea that deserves emula-
tion. On first nights free beer is served.
The idea is that the effect of the stiffness of
the players on their first try-out on an
audience will be mitigated by the mellowing
influence of the hops. Anyway, that’s the
yarn they tell Pharaoh.
“Spokoshave”: Some patriotic excitement
has been engendered over the fact that Wil-
liamsons have launched out successfully in
London. The Morning Post goes so far as
to say that the event “suggests that the
Imperial link is not to be despised.” One
-would imagine that the Firm was introducing
Londoners to some great Australian master-
piece, played by the cream of Australian
actors. Actually the giglot which is causing
all the fuss is “The Patsy,” even the title
of which has to be translated to make it
intelligible to English or Australian audi-
ences.
“Garrick”: I hope this catches one
“Klaw’s” eye. “To settle it,” he remarked
on this page some time ago, “Gladys Mon-
criefif first appeared on any stage at H. M.
Theatre, Sydney, on Oct. 12, 1012, as a
chorister in ‘Dorothy.’ ” On the strength
of that I butted into an argument the other
night and lost a whole five bob when the
other party proved that Gladys first appeared
with Dan Barry’s co. at Bundaberg, playing,
as a mere kid. Little Willie in “East Lynne.”
I don’t like to seem mercenary, but if
“Ivlaw” sends me a p.n. e/o The Bulletin,
I’ll think more of him.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Not for. many years
has there been such a scene connected with
the stage as that which occurred on Novem-
ber 17 at the Gaiety, when Gracie Fields,
the Lancashire comedienne, went on to depu-
tise for Rosetta Duncan, the American
actress wdiose sudden breakdown had led to
the closing of the theatre. Th e Duncan
sisters were financing the show “Topsy and
Eva.” with which version of Uncle Tom’s
Cabin they had done remarkably well in
the U.S.A. Their talent _ seemed likely to
bring them success with it in London, but
the troubles of theatrical management in the
West End proved more than they had
counted on. The Musicians’ Union, which
drives many to distraction, objected to the
employment of one foreigner. By their
unreason the members of this union have
already induced America to take retaliatory
action which has thrown scores of English
performers out of employment in New York,
xlnyhow, Rosetta Duncan’s health gave way
under the strain. Then Grade Fields stepped
into the breach and offered to play the very
trying part at a few hours’ notice and
without salary. When she appeared the
ovation she received was extraordinary. She
was smothered in flowers, and Yivian Dun-
can added all her own tributes to those sent
to Gracie. Thousands waited outside the
theatre, and the police in their effort to dis-
perse them had to get the Lancashire girl
to come out and make a speech. All the
company embraced her; Vivian Duncan, in
natural gratitude, wept on her neck, and
finally the crowd carried Miss Fields shoul-
der-high to her car.
“Ad.”: Another Adelaide singer is to go
Londonwards —Arnold Matters, who just
missed the “Welsh delegation” award, but is
going anyway. His fine baritone has been
trained under Frederick Bevan and Clive
Carey.
“Repat” : Charles Stone, appearing in E.
J. Carroll’s new railway thriller, “The
Wrecker,” at the Melbourne Athenaeum, is
on his fourth visit to Australia. His first
appearance here was in “When Knights
Were Bold” ; he returned to Bobby in Mey-
nell and Gunn’s version of “The Arcadians,”
and again heard the callboy’s voice in
J.C.W.’s first revue “Come Over Here.”
“Hamfat”: Clarice Coles, who made her
first appearance since her return to Australia
in the Sydney Philharmonics’ Christmas ren-
derings of “The Messiah,” went to Europe
five years ago to complete her studies, and
could find nobody better able to help in
polishing her voice than another Australian
lady, Nellie Rowe, who, having studied under.
Marchesi, is now a teacher in London, and
considered among the very best.
“E.E.W.” : London has been given its first
concave cinema theatre by an Australian —
architect H. C. Mathews, once of Melbourne,
planned and executed it. By shaping half
the interior on the concave system all the
2000 seats have been arranged to command
a full view of the screen. The building is
described by the press as the finest film-house
in the Fog Town.
“Wood’s Green” (Lond.) : “So Long,
Letty,” w'hich Australia put on the shelf
years ago. is shortly to be staged in London
as a red-hot novelty. Phyllis Monkman is
to reappear with it. and Mark Daly will be
the principal comedian. At time of writing
Madge Elliott is still delighting audiences
at the Winter Garden, where “So This Is
Love” has proved one of the best-paying
musical shows staged in London for a long
time.
“Murua”: The necessity for Hollywood
stars to master pure English for the talkies
apparently wasn’t such an urgent matter
as was at first anticipated. In some talking
pictures already completed, the players go
through their parts as of old: the speaking
part of the business is handled separately
by a special staff whose only qualification
in the movie world is a flow of language, for
which the screen hero or heroine will receive
the ultimate bouquets.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Violet Loraine has
supplied a great thrill by her triumphal
return to the stage in a new- play, “Clara
Gibbings,” which provides her with great
opportunities, ,of which she has made the
most. The play is mostly excellent, but it
lias w r eak patches. It has more fresh and
amusing jokes than have been heard in the
West End for quite a while. One of Lon-
don’s cherished memories of the London stage
during the war is that of Violet Loraine
and George liobey in the “Bing Boys.” When
its extraordinary career came to an end she
made a brilliant marriage, and retired from
the stage. During the last decade she has
had many tempting offers, to return. Now
she has done so, and has displayed comedy
gifts of such an order that she is not likely
to be allowed to go into retirement again
in a hurry.
“Lysander” : Travelling the “smalls” is a
chancy business. In our Queensland town
Kate Howarde’s show that had done excel-
lent business in the metropolis played to
two people, and Gordon and Reynolds, with
a brightly-done “Getting Gertie’s Garter,”
handed back their money to the two “bobs.”
Similar luck befel the Lady Kilties. Yet
Wilkie played Sliakspeare for a four-night
season, and was satisfied.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Poor Bob Brough had
the “counting-tlie-house” habit (B. 5/12/’2B)
pretty badly; he could almost be seen mut-
tering “Thirty-seven in the dress-circle” as,
in moments of stage thoughtfulness, his eyes
wandered anxiously about the theatre. In
those lean days the anxiety was warranted ;
Brough’s fine co. got such shocking support
that it might have stranded but for Reggie
Allen's financial backing. That was the
Allens’ first venture into theatrical finance;
they are solid shareholders in the Firm
now.
“Cauboy”: The success the Melbourne
Repertory Society had with the Nativity
Play staged in the Botanic Gardens —it made
more profits out of the two performances
than it had won in all the rest of the year—•
suggests that here is a chance of making the
village by the Yarra the Oberammergau of
Australia. We get “The Messiah” every
year—why not a mystery play? It need not
be an annual repetition like the choral fes-
tival. There are plenty to choose from:
the Chester plays number 24, the Wakefield
Cycle 34, and the Coventry series, from
which Mr. Clewlow made his choice, 42.
They range from solemn religious pieces to
sly nose-fingerings at the clergy.
“Manar”: llow long ago did the idea of
talkies originate? In 1920 I met in San
Francisco an Australian named Arnold who
was trying to interest American capital in a
device which he had invented for the synchro-
nisation of a gramophone and a motion-
picture film. The device was rather crude, con-
sisting of an arrangement of rods and cams
which worked from the gramophone to the
projecting-machine, but it worked to a cer-
tain extent. Two years later than that the
talkies were pronounced by experts to be a
technical impractibility.
“Sunny Hill” : I’m saving for a ticket to
Sydney now that the talkies are released. It
will be wonderful to be free of that abomin-
able female who invariably sits behind me
and reads the sub-titles aloud.
“Morita”: Talking films will drag into the
film world some of the world’s leading cele-
brities to whom the silent drama would have
made no appeal. One of the first in is
Paderewski, who has accepted a big money
offer from German producers.
“The Melbourne Showman”: “Blum” (B.
28/11/’2B), commenting on some remarks of
mine about Cherkassky’s playing, stated
that “long fingers are not essential, are not
even helpful, to rapid and forceful fingering.”
To a certain extent this is true, but neither
Friedman’s adult hand nor any fist on earth
can compass the accompanying chords which
occur in some pianoforte pieces—notably
those in the bass of Chopin’s Ballade in A
flat. In such cases the pianist strikes what
notes he can reach, and follows with the
others arpeggio, pulling all together with
an astute manipulation of the pedals. The
result may be pleasing, but it is not as the
composer wrote * it. It certainly does not
conduce to rapid playing. There was a con-
troversy in Melbourne and Sydney on this
very point some years ago, some authorities
contending that the classical piece set for
the L.A.B. examinations was beyond the
technical, not to say emotional, resources
of callow 16-year-oldsters. Liszt was a com-
poser-performer with a phenomenal reach, so,
being first of all a good showman, he wrote
chords which nobody else could handle.
Chopin even invented a machine to increase
the range of his digits, and some earnest
souls have even gone the length of cutting
the web between their fingers. .Nancy Weir,
the 13-year-old prodigy Cherkassy has lately
discovered in Melbourne, can play two notes
beyond the octave, and can stretch to the
third, but cannot play it. Which suggest
that there arc physical disabilities to be over-
come. by youthful virtuosi.
“C.Q.”: The next time somebody lays a
foundation-stone at Canberra it might be
for a National Film Library. Such a library,
besides being a source of innocent merriment
to our descendants, would be of value his-
torically. The Empire Film Institute in Lon-
don has already started making a collection,
and one recently added is Herbert Ponting’s
record of the Scott Antarctic expedi-
tion. At present such films may
simply wear themselves out in obscure movie
halls. Before the library is started, how-
ever, research into the lasting qualities of
celluloid will be necessary. The film used
at present shrinks with age until it fails
to fit the instruments.
“R.H.”: The technique of showmanship,
and the showman’s idea of what the public
wants don’t change much in over a century.
This is from a recent Melbourne motor-
cycling act: —
See the greatest
DARE DEVILS
at this class of racing throughout the World.
SEE THE SIDE-CARS SKID AND THE SOLOS
BROADSIDE. SEE THEM FALL AND COLLIDE.
BRING THE KIDDIES—THEY LOVE IT
just as much as the adults.
Popular Prices —Outer Ground, 2/-; Stand Enclosure,
3/3 (including tax). Children Half-price.
And this is from a London advt. of 1801:
See the surprising and famous
ITALIAN FEMALE SAMSON
who has been seen in several Courts of Europe
With great applause. She will absolutely walk,
barefoot, on a red-hot bar of iron. A large block
of marble of between two and three thousand
weight she will permit to lie on her. She performs
exactly at 12 o’clock and 4 and 6 in the afternoon.
Price, half a crown. Servants and children, a shilling.
“Antipodean”: Touching upon the talkies,
the rise of Warner Bros, with their Vita-
phone productions has been one of the biggest
stirs in moving-picture history. Twelve
months ago the show was virtually bankrupt;
it staked its all on the talking pictures, and
is to-day the greatest producer in Holly-
wood.
“O. Kay” : The “Romance of Runnibede”
film firm, according to a recent Poverty
Pointer, went broke largely because local
returns failed to match expectation. The film,
like other local productions, was never
given a chance. It wasn’t screened in Mel-
bourne —I think it saw only two States. Nor
was it boosted, which is an essential. The
same applies to “Tall Timbers.” Melbourne
never saw it nor did it reach other States.
Some of our film producers should be in the
milk business; but there is one. Arthur
Higgins, who is above average. With very
little capital he made a good little movie
(“Odds On”) and released it throughout
Australia, boosting it with £2O! Now he is
working on his third production. He hails
from the Speck.
THE OLD JOKES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The hard soprano yelps her songs;
The fat comedian does his best;
Withal the packed and serried throngs
Show but a languid interest
Until (so panto, is contrived)
A glad, tumultuous roar of joy
Proclaims the Old Jokes have arrived —
The jests I laughed at when a boy.
Back stepping through the mists of age,
With knickerbockerad zest we view
Again the glamor of the stage
When hoary quips like these were new.
Again of wonder’s cup we quaff,
Small lass and lad more mirthful grow,
And grandpa with a cackling laugh
Greets the old jokes he used to know.
N.S.W.
HAMFAT.


.
PM.
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD.
Total Assets exceed . £2,000,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Asaociation and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost eveiy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION. AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Vagabond King’’
Royal “Mr. Pim Passes By”
Criterion “The Patsy”
Tivoli Vaudeville
• MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Desert Song”
Royal “Other Men’s Wives”
New Comedy “Scandal”
King’s Nicola
AthenjEum “The Wrecker”
Tivoli •„ Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
“The Wrecker,” the latest smudge from
the sanguinary cuff of Arnold Ridley, author
of “The Ghost Train,” got its first look-in
before dazed, trembling and applauding
Christmas audiences at Melbourne Athen-
aeum. Mr. Ridley is said to have obtained
his knowledge of the habits of the English
railway train by hiding at great personal
inconvenience in culverts and lonely ticket-
offices and observing the animal as it came
down to drink. With the assistance of the
Athenaeum machinists and the appropriately-
named assistant stage-manager Guy Hel-
brough (who should have taken at least 49
bows to every 10 taken by the principals),
Mr. Ridley gives his hearers a very con-
vincing impression of having spent a sleep-
less night alongside one of Clapp’s suburban
shunting depots. Engines back in and out
of the Athenaeum and trains thunder through
the theatre at 00 miles an hour, while buffers
bump, chains rattle and brakes scream;
imaginative stallites put out the bush-fires
started on their crania by the sparks emitted
from funnels apparently insufficiently sup-
plied with arresters, and torrents of smoke
and steam suggest that the photographer of
a pictorial daily has taken a record of the
distinguished throng.
On the other hand, if Mr. Ridley
has gone to the fountainhead for his
ideas about railway trains, for his notions
about railway officials he has taken a
ticket to his own efflorescent brain. When
the Wrecker, who has already caused five
notable smashes in six weeks, informs the
directorate of the Grand Trunk Railway, by
the usual method of pinning up a notice
with a blood-stained dagger, that he proposes
to wreck a certain train at a certain hour,
JANETTE GILMORE, doing this sort of thing in “Rio Rita ”
at Melbourne Princess.
that presumably responsible body sends but
one mystery-play detective to the scene,
which is a signal-box on a lonely moor or a
blasted heath, or perhaps only the Athenaeum
stage. Moreover, the detective finds it ex-
pedient, five minutes before the scheduled
time, to take a walk behind the scenes, on
the pretext of examining the permanent way,
but no doubt to find a ginger-ale. One low-
comedy signalman having been gassed out of
the story via the stove and the other having
been told by the producer to go home to
bed, nothing apparently can prevent the train
thundering to destruction except a break-
down of the noise apparatus in the wings.
One thing, however, cannot break down,
and that is Mr. Ridley’s ingenuity.
He sends on the hero and the heroine in the
nick of time. “Lucky” Doyle is a Rugby
international captain who has won the toss
in succession 11 times, which is the only
really improbable assertion in the play.
With the approach of the doomed express
beating on the eardrums of the house, Doyle
calmly spins a coin to decide which of the
points to change. If the management had
more regard for its reputation it would here
invite six members of the audience to come
up and testify to the genuineness of the toss.
As it is, one has to accept the bare state-
ment that Doyle has won again.
The unmasking of the villain provides
another thrilling act which must be seen to
be disbelieved. This Showman, under the
laws of hospitality, is debarred from divulg-
ing the scoundrel’s name. Suffice it to say
that “The Wrecker” is not as good as “The
Ghost Train,” but is well above the average
of its fatuous kind. Miss Josephine Wilson,
the heroine, is a charming and beautiful his-
trion, and Clayton Greene is a capable pro-
ducer as well as the spinner of the infallible
brown. Frank Morrison gives an imperso-
nation which could be improved of a rail-
way servant who holds that engines have
immortal souls, and George Willoughby pro-
vides a faithful physical replica of the sort
of railway magnate who does so much to
promote the dividends of the motor-’bus pro-
prietaries. Nobody else sticks out of the
plot sufficiently far to stick in the mind.
* ¥ *
With the blasts of propaganda ringing in
his ears, the publicity pars, exploding on
every hand and The Bulletin’s old friend
and contributor Norman Campbell presenting
illuminated addresses from gallery girls to
Gladys Moncrieff, it requires superhuman
candor on the part of a critic to point out
that the real star of “Rio Rita” at Mel-
bourne Princess is not the Australian singer
at all. This isn’t to say that Gladys is not
in fair voice and in improved style. It is
only to say that her part in the gorgeous
inanity is the equivalent of Madame Melba
singing “Home, Sweet Home.” Chief honors
and the bulk of the discriminating applause
go to Janette Gilmore, a quaint American
mime who can do every appropriate thing
that Gladys can’t. For one thing, she can
touch the back of her baby head with the
soles of both her nimble feet. She can also
raise laughs where laughs are required—
which is all the
time. “Rio Rita”
is a suitably asin-
ine frolic which
should enjoy a
lengthy run. It
presents a Mexico
whose native in-
habitants address
each other in
broken English,
and it serves to
sh o w that the
estimable Fuller
bros. can produce a
certain sort of
American show
quite as well as
the old Firm. It
is full of fleshy
little ladies, and,
though what the
ballets do is not
blazingly various,
if Mexicans really
went about like
that they would
have to double
their impor-
tations of dress
materials. The plot
is poor, and after
the first act it
would require all
the townsfolk and
a black-tracker to
find the wee thing.
Charley Sylber, as
a lawyer, is that
u n p r e c edented
thing, an original
comedian, and the
scenery is good
Mexicography, as
far as present
Showman knows.
* *
“The Family
Upstairs,” at Syd-
ney Palace, is in a way a remark-
able theatrical offering. It is a comedy,
uproariously funny, a packet of ex-
plosive mirth, and yet there is not a
line in it to which the most rabid Puritan
could take exception. You come away feeling
pleasantly sore about the chest and also
strangely joyful over its undeviating whoie-
someness. It is as if the playwright had
purposely set himself to prove that sly re-
marks about bedroom happenings, cynicism,
dunghillism, suggestivism and filthism in all
their open and disguised shapes were not the
essentials of comedy that we had been led to
believe.
The play is as human as a song by
Robert Burns. The maker of it takes no
freak figures and asks us to accept them
as generalities; rather lie takes generalities
and so uses them that we are convinced they
are freaks. All of us know this squabbling
family, but we do not belong to it —oh dear,
no! We are in every way superior to it.
But most amusing people, aren’t they? Isn’t
Ileller like Mr. So-an-So? How Mrs. Heller
reminds us of Mrs. Whatsthis! So with
the others: we know everyone of them, and,
as with the happier of the Dickens charac-
ters, we love ’em, every one. Why? Is it
because we are so superior to them all? Is
it because these are just the people upon
whom we can look down with the one smile
that is sans bitterness—the friendly smile of
indulgence? That at any rate seems to be
the illusion. The artistic truth is that in
Heller, the father, there is something of
every married man among us, and so on
through mother, daughters, son and suitor.
None of them is wholly true simply because
nothing in dramatic or any other art is wholly
true. They are all accumulations; and so
they ring true to experience, which is merely
accumulation, and to life, which is experience.
Apart from that general merit, the detail
of the play is also satisfying. The Hellers
live in a commonplace flat; Ileller works
on the trams; young Heller adorns the bil-
liard saloons; child Heller practises on the
piano; mother Heller nags, pampers young
Heller and makes much of her blood pressure
and gallstones; girl Heller reaches 21 before
she finds a beau ; the beau, in a couple of
visits, is so appalled at his comparative in-
significance by the motherly bragging of Ma
Ileller about their good position and girl
Heller’s strings of phantom beaus that, poor
chap, he recognises how very unworthy he
is, and goes. However, lie goes only as far
as the street steps below, where Pa Heller,
taking charge of the matrimonial finessing,
gets him back and nearly makes a further
mess of things, and the affair is patched up
only when the two young people themselves
take charge of it.
From a fine group of players Wyrlie
Birch, as Heller, stands distinctly out.
His pedestal is sincerity. He is one of
the most sincere actors at present strutting
the hour on Harborside boards. Leona
Hogarth, as the good girl, manages con-
vincingly that seldom-managed stage acces-
sory, emotion. It is Miss Hogarth perhaps
more than anyone else who makes the play so
human. But all the little party—Mary Cur-
tain as the mother, Elizabeth Mears as the
younger daughter, Van Sickle as the lazy
son, Leonard Doyle as the suitor, Ethel
Saker as the suitor’s mother, and Evelyn
Wade as a dressmaker —are well cast and
handle their parts admirably.
Good all the way through and extra good
in places is not a too-generous appreciation
of the piece. This Showman is not a prude,
but the fact that the comedy is so clean fills
him with a delight that he would like to share
as a sort of New Year’s box with everyone
who finds cleanliness next to godliness, and
almost as inexpensive.
* * *
Harlequin and Columbine, Pantaloon,
Clown, Policeman and Sausages have gone
from Christmas pantomime, apparently never
to return, but there’s still a Dame and a
Principal Boy. In “Little Red Riding Hood,’’
which has been occupying Sydney Empire of
late, there are even occasional references to
the nursery story from which the production
taks its name. There’s a very nice little
R.R.H., Mary Gannon, who marries Little
Boy Blue, represented by that shapely bal-
ladist Amy Rochelle, after a series of
maritime adventures on a treasure island
inhabited by dusky maidens, who twangle
ukuleles and wear no more than is necessary
in a very hot cilmate. Bert Desmond’s Dame
is helped out considerably by Violet Elliott
as the Dame’s daughter. Characters most
in favor with the young are a wolf and
an aeroplane. Peppered through the produc-
tion, for which Frank Neil is responsible,
is the usual flavoring of entirely irrelevant
ballets, ballads and vaudeville turns. The
show is well staged; the dressing is attrac-
tive and the young folk lap it up like starv-
ing kittens at an overturned cream jug.
* # *
With two performances of “The Messiah”
as their Christmas week offering, the Sydney
Philharmonics at the Town Hall impressively
introduced new conductor Gerald Peachell.
Beautiful renderings both of them; very rich
and effective throughout and so good in
places that encores were almost vociferously
demanded. If for nothing else than the way
he suppressed the orchestra and allowed the
vocalists their rights in the mostly vocal
piece the conductor merits an extra cheer here
to add to those 'he received from the large
crowds. Soloists Molfie de Gunst, Clarice
Coles, Robert Scott and Raymond Beatty
supported at both performances, and their
work was worthy of its artistic surroundings.
* # *
Fullers gave Christmastide patrons plenty
for their money with a pantomime and
comedy double at Newtown Majestic, and the
Merrymakers personally conducted through the
wilderness of vaudeville and revue by the
only Mo in Castlereagh-street. Vaudeville
filled the first part; a couple of alleged
comedies, the second. One was described as
musical, and it may go at that. In “The
Bankers,” Monty and Mo were such tellers
as nightmares are made on, while Lulu Fan-
ning was a typist calculated to drive any
employer to bankrupt insanity or just plain
drink, according to temperament. Most of
the interest in “Yiddish Justice” centred
round Mo, J., whose work, though exaggerated
in spots, perhaps was worthy the best tradi-
tions of the Bench, the age and inanity of
many of his witticisms strikingly clinching
the comparison. Sadie Gale was a lady shop-
lifter who would be acquitted by any jury
without leaving ihe box, while Monty Megan
filled t}ie place of the lamented Stiffy as foi
to Mo with satisfaction.
EDNA MONCRIEFF, who dances for
Royalty in “The Vagabond King” at
Sydney Majesty’s.
Just when both of them looked like emu-
lating the brook that flowed out of Tenny-
son’s noble brow, “The Vagabond King,” at
Sydney Majesty’s, and “The Patsy,” at the
Royal, have had the closure forecasted. Their
last weeks are advertised, and this Show-
man thinks enough of each of them to advise
those who have missed them to get in while
the going is good. The saccharine story of
Villon is one of the most spectacular things
seen around the Harbor in years, and the
other, with the Homer at its head, is a
delicious comedy. New bills will shortly pre-
vail at nearly every Sydney theatre. The
Vanboucieaults finish with the Royal on
January 9, where the next invasion will see
revivals of “The Girl Friend” and “Hit the
Deck.” “Dick Whittington,” at the Grand
Opera House, and “Little Red Ridinghood,”
at the Empire, look strong enough to run
out the customary panto, season before
changes will be needed there, and for. the
time being “Good News” is progressing nicely
at the St. James.
* V *
Sydney Tiv. is recognising the generous
season with a fine bill. There, are at least
four upper-class turns, including a piece
called “Give Us a Lift,” wherein the red-
thatched Flo Lewis supplies a compelling
comedy performance. She’s very bright, is
Flo. Harry Kahne, in a thought-reading act,
is another of the leading lights; Aronson’s
Symphonists are still blowing bravely, and
Jane Dillon, an attractive impersonator, com-
pletes the quartette, which is strongly backed
up by sundry other passable turns.
¥ ¥ *
Judgment has to be reserved on the Van-
boucicaults’ current offering, ‘Mr. Pirn, at
Sydney Royal.


è
STONEWALL
SHOES for MEN
IN SCIENTIFIC LASTS.
ROOM FOR EVERY TOE.
Boots or Shoes in Black, Tan and Nigger
Calf. Welt Soles.
28/6
BETTER GRADES, 36/-
Recommended by Leading Surgeon t.
Postage, 1/-; Inter-State, 1/8.
Send Desk B for Catalogue.
JACKSONS U?
'Stonewall" Stores.
Cn r Pitt 6 Goulburn, Sts. Sydney
“Its Quality Never Changes. ”
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Pfella”: “Atherton” is right about cats
possessing a, knowledge of herbalism (B.
14/11/’2B). My sister at FJinders Bay
(W.A.) has a puss named Kitty Souter
which took a poisoned bait. She knew some-
thing was wrong with her breakfast soon
after eating, and she promptly ran to the
gate of the garden, an area she was never
allowed to enter, and made such a fuss
meowing that my sister came out to see
what was the matter. The moment her
mistress appeared Kitty Souter dashed into
the garden and ate a number of blades of
two different kinds of grass. The poison
came up, and one of the cat’s nine lives was
saved.
* * * *
“P.M.”: I’ve got a whole lot of scepti-
cism about that arithmetical horse by
“Selma” (B. 21/11/’2B). The driver who
was pulling “Selma’s” leg probably had his
mare trained to start with a tap from. his
boot on the hind fetlock, which he adminis-
tered as soon as the fifteenth bucketful was
tipped into the tank. Many years ago a dog-
trainer toured Yic. with performing poodles,
one of which he claimed could count and add
up The dog would walk up and down a
row of cards with different figures on them
and pick up the right one every time. When
one of the audience asked the trainer why
he had to wink at the dog before it would
pick up a card the trainer got quite rude.
* * * *
“H Hardupp”: Anyone who builds his
ideas'upon old standards is liable to be
shocked by the fish now sold in Sydney. The
other day I bought, and found very tasty,
some butter-fish, supposed 20 or 30 years
ago to be inedible. The prejudice was caused
by the greenish tinge the bones of the cooked
fish take after exposure to the air. Of
course, leatherjacket, once regarded as un-
saleable in the'shops, but highly appreciated
by fishermen, who knew that the removal of
a tough skin left a very tender flesh, has
long commanded a good price on the market;
but there are liable to be new —or apparently
new—experiences. “Have a fillet of shark.”
said my fish-shop waiter to me; “it’s the same
thing that you’ve tasted often as snapper.
I took a chance —and, if I hadn’t known, I
would have regarded it as an unusually good
bit of snapper.
* * * *
“The Noise”: Some dogs possess a know-
ledge of numbers. When farming on the
wheat belt of W.A. I owned a black bitch
of unknown origin. She reared a litter of
five pups, and when they were old enough
to eat little rabbits mother went out hunting
each morning and brought them one apiece.
A neighboring cocky fancied some, of her
offspring, and took a pair away to his farm.
The following morning the mother sallied
into the scrub and returned with three little
bunnies, which she served out. This went
on for over a week, when my neighbor
brought back the two pups because his child-
ren ill-treated them. They were returned to
the fold at night, and next morning the
mother welcomed the two with half a dozen
licks and then streaked for the bush. Her
catch amounted to five, and to that figure
she stuck until her family was old enough
to count one and catch it themselves.
* * * *
“Exile”: I am sorry to contradict “Win-
gella” (B. 12/9/’2B). If he had observed
more closely he would have seen that termites
don’t eat their way through metal. They
have engineers, each carrying a brace and
small drills, with which they bore holes
through the metal. The “acid” which they
are supposed to secrete is not acid, but
a very fine oil with which they lubricate their
drills. I have seen the engineer termites
drill the steel wedges out of 201 b. hammers
so that the others could carry the handles
away and devour them at leisure.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The bombardier-beetle of the
genus Braehinus, has inflicted a lot of dam-
age on a Coraki (N.S.W.) man, J. Eden.
On being interfered with the bombardier
ejects fluid which inflicts a sharp, searing
pain when it falls on the flesh. In this case
the poisonous jet struck the eye of Eden, who
was trying to knock the beetle from an
orange leaf, and his sight may be perma-
nently impaired. He was in agony for a
DEAD LOSS.
“Dot cigar seems to make you sad, Cohen?”
“Yes; I vos joost vishing I had some insurance on id!”
[Nineteen years ago there was a fire in The Bulletin Office in Sydney, and among other things
many unused drawings were totally destroyed. Others were scorched and thrown into a store-room
as unusable. Recent examination reveals that a few of these were untouched by fire. Hence The
Bulletin is able to print this fine example of a hitherto unpublished drawing by the late Alf Vincent.]
week as .> result. As the beetle is common,
it will be wise to deal with it cautiously
now that it has developed marksmanship.
“Lobjc”: “P.X.” and “Cop” (B. 5/12/’2B)
comment on the intelligence shown by cocka-
toos in captivity. Their examples pale to in-
significance when compared with a sulphur-
crested hero I once owned. The station
cook’s youngest, a nipper of two and a bit,
and my cocky were inseparable, and the bird
combined the functions of mother, nurse,
watdulog and playmatel One day piercing
yells from the creek brought the family on
the run. Cocky, one claw clinging to a wire-
netting fence, was clutching his charge with
the other, and only just managing to suspend
the hefty toddler, who was floundering piti-
fully. The poor bird was almost torn in
two by the strain.
# * * *
“Vulagi”: Touching these wayback kids
who grow to six years of age without seeing
things. Some years ago I was sitting on
the balcony of Mrs. Mac’s hotel at Suva
when a lady suddenly called “Teddy, Teddy,
quick ! Here comes a horse !” Teddy, a boy
of over six, rushed out from the bedroom,
and I watched him stand awestruck, getting
his first eyeful of the friend of man. They
were Pacific Cable people, and had arrived
from Fanning Island the night before. It
was Teddy’s first trip into the wide, wide
world, and he had a lot more than horses
to see for the first time.
* * * *
“Penn”: Bernard Cronin’s story of child
slavery, “Bracken,” is only too true to life,
and unfortunately such conditions are not
confined to Gippsland. I met Jasper’s pro-
totype in a little out-back cow town on the
North Coast of N.S.W., where we were
doing a one-night stand with a travelling
picture-show. The poor kid, no more than
nine, was driving back from the cheese fac-
tory and pulled up to have a look at our
posters outside the hall. With a few leading
questions I discovered that he had to milk
15 cows twice daily, take the milk into the
factory, do odd jobs about the farm, and
get his schooling when there was nothing
else for him tc do. He had never in his life
seen a moving picture, as there had been only
one picture show in town other than ours,
and he had missed it. No, he couldn’t come
to see our show, as father considered it a
waste of money, and when I offered to fix
him with a pass the old slavedriver still
blocked him, as he said it was hard enough
to get the kid out of bed as it was, without
having him out till eleven o’clock the night
before.
* * * *
“P. J. 8.”: Explaining to Cohen, Vic.
Minister for Education, the other day how
the name Barpinba, in his electorate of
Polwarth (Vic.), was coined, McDonald,
M.L.A., said that there were three members
of a local railway construction trust called
Barnard, Pink and Bath. As they couldn’t
agree to the railway station being called
after any one of them, each wanting to give
way in favor of the other, they compromised
by taking a syllable from the name of each.
Cohen looked thoughtful. Possibly it occurred
to him that bad as Barpinba was Pinkbath-
barn or Bathpinkbarn might have been
worse.
* * * *
“Questo”: Old-timers in the North still
tell with glee the tale of how Nicholas the
Greek (“Kiriwina,” B. 28/11/’2B) eluded
the Dutch on the New Guinea Coast. Nick
had caused some trouble in Dutch territory,
and a cruiser was sent out after him. Sight-
ing a cutter the captain inquired if any on
board kneAv the whereabouts of Nick. The
skipper of the cutter was only too willing
to oblige, and offered to pilot them through
the reefs to a part of the coast where this
reprobate could be found. Boats were soon
lowered, were safely piloted through the reefs
and given instructions to go straight ahead.
The cutter then went on its way and an
hour later the boats lay stranded on mud
banks. The Dutch never found out that
Nicholas the Greek was their pilot.
* * * *
“De Mackham” : Years ago at Taree, oh
the Manning River, old Bungay Billy, an
abo., was induced to join the Salvation Army l .
Billy’s stock rejoinder to the mirthful quips
of the crowd was: “By cripes, you havit
plurry good laugh now, but you wake up in
the mornin’ an’ find y’self dead you gettit
plurry shock.” Billy’s hold on salvation
was brief. Asked his reason for leaving, he
declared: “Plurry game ain’t fair. That
captain pfeller takeit hat roun’ havit bob
in—an’ win every plurry time.”
* * * *
“S.J.H.” : In the Chatham Islands, which
lie about 400 miles east of Maoriland, there
lives a man who is the last of his race. When
he dies the Morioris will become extinct.
They were the original natives of the Shivery
Isles, but the warlike Maoris killed them off.
The position of the Morioris at last became
so desperate that the few remaining fled in
canoes to the Chatham Islands, where they
increased greatly in numbers. In 1851, for
a reason which is not clear, an English
captain landed some hundreds of Maoris on
the Chathams, and the outcome was disas-
trous for the Morioris, who in a few years
were reduced to less than a hundred. Since
then the race has been slowly dwindling, and
to-day only one pure-bred Moriori remains.
He has a Maori wife and five children, who
help him to run a sheep-farm. But the truce
between Maori and Moriori has come too
late to save the latter race.
* * * *
“Two Seas” : The wily old smooger men-
tioned by “Ess” (B. 12/12/’2B) who robbed
the traveller’s horse of his feed had a lot
of collaborators in the early days. Most of
them were “grooms” at wayside pubs. That
was why the good horseman always saw his
horse fed and watered before he went inside
for his own feed. In the big drought I often
paid 4s. for my moke’s dinnei - , and a bob
for my own. Neither of them amounted to
much—a handful of'corn and a whisky-case
of chaffed bottle-envelopes and old straw
packing did for the moke, and I made sure
that he got it all. If I was too hungry to
wait until the feed-box was empty I put a
small stone at the bottom, and if when I
returned that stone wasn’t there I knew
it had been returned to the bin with the 4s.
worth of feed. Then I would express my
opinion of the groom until he restored the
stolen feed to stem the flow of my eloquence.
* * * *
“Retired Ananias”: Some of these sheep-
dog yarns which Abo.-liars produce are the
limit. What is wanted on such subjects is
the truth, so that fanciers can judge of canine
capabilities and breed to accentuate them.
Take my Tweed. Not long ago I started him
off with a small mob of wethers, and, being
delayed by other matters, followed him some
time after in my car. It was a hot day, and
when I came along about noon the dog had
planted the mob in the shade of a big coola-
bah and was giving them a smoke-oh for an
hour.. It’s my opinion that if the mob had
been ewes lie would have attended to any
lambing that was going on.
(Continued on next page.)
A FLOODED NIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We waited by the river
When floods were running high;
We saw the tree-tops quiver,
We heard the wet winds sigh,
And wished the night were done,
As the clock struck one.
We watched from bed and table,
When flood was at the door,
Encircling house and stable,
And lapping on the floor;
All planning what to do
As the clock struck two.
We climbed upon the wallplates,
Among the flitting bats,
When waters topped the tall gates
And fences on the flats,
Low-bending shrub and tree,
While the clock struck three.
We broke out through the shingles,
And climbed upon the roof,
Some moored with straps and ’cingles,
For help was far aloof,
When rain had ceased to pour,
And the clock struck four'.
We rode the wind-swept capping,
And coo-eed loud and long,
Until a boat came slapping
Across the current strong,
And a voice cried, “All alive!”
As the clock struck five.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
Among a man’s New Year reso-
lutions, a logical decision is to
buy from a House devoted exclu-
sively to men’s and boys’ needs.
The whole of Peapes’ resources
and energies are concentrated on
supplying men’s and boys’ require-
ments of QUALITY, VALUE and
SERVICE. To buy there is to be
assured of the BEST, at bedrock
prices unaffected by periodical
“sales.”
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
é
r T''he purest tobacco only>
1 wrapped in snow-white
paper without any trimmings
has made t(C Uhe Qreys” the
best Virginia Cigarette.
It’s the Tobacco that matters
GREYS
io fov 9<d. CIGARETTES 2,0f0v 1/6
MAJOR DRAPKIN & CO. Branch of the United Kingdom Tobacco Co. Ltd. [NSG9
Despair
in the ranks of the rabbit
results in
Delight
among the men who get the
skins if the consignment is
sent to Winchcombe Carson
for sale. They are specialists
:■■■ ws
in the sale of all classes of skins.
They sell them on commission only, never buying nor
dealing. Top market prices for skins are their
constant aim.
Consign Rabbit, Fox and all other Skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Winchcombe House, or 99-101 Eagle St.,
| Bridge St., Sydney, Brisbane.
“Gitano”: A throwback case similar to
that mentioned bv “Hamer” (B. 28/11/ 28)
occurred in North Queensland some years
ago. The girl, a quarter-caste, showed no
traces of a colored streak and married an
Australian of good birth. Their first child
was as black as the ace of spades. On
finding that it was quite possible for such
a thing to happen, the couple separated.
* * * *
“Hayband”: I agree with “Pick” (B.
28/11 /’2B) that the way to cure a jib is to
out-jib him, as it were. A friend of mine
recently borrowed a jibber. Not long after-
wards 'he noticed a lack of variety in the
scenery; the horse had decided to have a
long look at it “Come on, have a heart,
remarked my friend. The horse remained as
still as a cathedral. The man in the gig had
juicy beer-bottles and plenty of tucker and
a good book. The road was shady. At the end
SHE’D OFTEN SHOPPED WITH MOTHER.
LITTLE GIRL: “Did you bring auntie’s new baby in your bag?"
DOCTOR: “Yes, little lady; that’s how I brought it.”
LITTLE GIRL: “Gee, you couldn’t carry many in that bag, and MY mummy wouldn't
take the first one you showed her.”
of 10 minutes the horse turned his head back
and threw a fishy eye at the performance
astern. But the book was at an interesting
stage; so was the first bottle. An hour mean-
dered pleasantly by. The hero was in trouble
with a shipwreck, and the beer as palatable
as liquid honey. A baleful glare came from
fo’r’d. Then, at a nice even 10 m.p.h., the
horse moved on. He had been outstayed and
knew it. It would take nothing smaller than
the Great Wall of China to stop him now.
* $ * *
“Bud-G.”: Old Buckwheat and his son
were busy loading bags of corn to take to
the railway siding, and after the old fellow
had twice backed the dray in at the wrong
place, Bob, hot and narked at the time lost,
roared: “I’ve never seen yer make a decent
job of anythin’ yet.” The old fellow did not
reply for a few seconds; then, gazing at Bob,
he drawled: “Ye’re right, Bob; but you was
ther worst job.”
* * * *
“B-Gar”: The long-expected rain had
arrived at Innisfail (N.Q.), and after the
deluge various estimates of the rainfall were
made. Someone rang up Ryan at the Four
Mile, and asked what he had registered. “Oi
can’t say,” he replied. “The gauge said 30
inches, but I seen one of Riley's pigs havin’
a drink out of it, an’ I’ll bet he drank a
gallon.”
“The Rumpus”: I’ve known
white ants to worry through strange
material to gain a wood pasture,
hut there’s a colony eating into the
lining of my kitchen that deserve
medals instead of the slaughter I
hand out whenever possible. I
rather fancied myself as a termite
Sherlock Holmes until a few weeks
back when I discovered the colony
chewing my kitchen. They had
made a zig-zag tunnel through five
feet of bricks and mortar at the
chimney base. Their course brought
them uncomfortably near the stove
at one place, so two small spur
passages were opened to let in air.
At one place a portion of fine wire
gauze stopped their progress. This
was prospected until a nail hole was
sighted and the vanguard passed
through. Altogether 12 feet were
traversed before the choicest timber
was reached.
“S.II.”: “Wrash” (B. 12/12/’2B) is quite
right. Rabbits were plentiful around Cooma,
Bungendore and thereabouts in bygone years.
And so were buyers and freezing works, and
there were thousands of trappers making a
decent if hard living. Also, everywhere one
heard promises of cheaper meat, bread and
butter when Bunny was exterminated, to
give the squatter more grass, the wheat-
grower better crops and the cow-cocky more
succulent fodder for Daisy and Brindle. But
now there are many men walking about those
districts who once lived by means of brer
rabbit, but who now doss in the deserted
freezing-works at night. In the days when
bunny was rife the best of beef could be
bought for 6d. per lb., bread 3d. per 21b.
loaf" and butter at Is. per lb. Anyone could
buy a pair of young, tender rabbits for
Sunday’s dinner for a bob. Now thousands
of pounds’ worth of machinery is rusting in
factories which cost more thousands to erect,
and tens of thousands of people are paying
twice as much as they used to for bread,
beef and butter. There is an unpaid bill for
thousands of miles of netting, erected to keep
Bunny opt. If it is ever paid it will be as
the result of letting the rabbits in again.
* * * *
“Fourwalls”: Workmen employed in ex-
cavating the earth that formerly supported
the Argus office in Collins-street, Melbourne,
have been digging out black snakes about
two feet in length, and there is much specula-
tion on their source. It is hard to under-
stand why snakes should dwell so near the
NO SENSE OF FUN AT ALL.
DAD: “What’s wrong with the city girl?”
MUM: “Aw, she’s playin’ up jist because Dave put 'er in the bail and leg-roped 'er
to kiss ’er.”
bowels of Collins-street, and in stiff clay at
that. Incidentally, it is to be expected that
Hoyt’s Regent movie-house will be late in
completion, as the excavators have instituted
a safety-first policy by looking before digging.
I don’t blame them. The score at time of
writing stands at four.
“Gustave” : Re “Keystring’s” say-
ing that no white man would allow
the notorious abo. Dimon to walk
behind him (B. 21/11/’2B). No
one who has had anything to do
with abos. will allow one of them,
however civilised and tame he may
be, to walk behind. The reason is
that the abo. cannot resist the
natural urge to have a crack at
anything that is bobbing along in
front of him. This was drummed
into me when I was a kid on the
Ivimberleys (W.A.) by the painful
thumping which an old prospector
received from a big buck. The old
chap was working behind a ledge of
rock, and as he used his pick his
hat became visible as lie straight-
ened up. The sight of this moving
hat attracted the attention of an
abo., who crept up and made a
swing at it with his nulla. Fortu-
nately he misjudged the hit, but the
old man had a bump which stayed
there for days. The best advice that,
can be given to a newchum who is
with an abo. in the bush at any
time is to walk behind the abo. and wear a
heavy pair of boots.
* * *
“Redraw” : You Sydney people growl about
your water supply! Lis’n. I helped to clean
but an 800 gal. tank the other day, the water
of which was considered a bit sniffy. Ihe
residue consisted of the remains of a good-
sized black snake, several rats and about a
bushel of dead frogs. And that was the only
easily-accessible supply for a family.
“Roberto”: A farmer in the Ganmain
(N.S.W.) district met with a unique experi-
ence while stripping a low crop of oats this
season. The spirals of his header conveyed
a fairly large brown snake into the machine,
and after a merrv ride through elevators,
riddles and drum the reptile landed in the
grain-box in a perfectly sound and very
’ vicious condition.
* * * *
“Pfella”: Can a gin track more accurately
than a buck? Of course she can. It is she
who teaches her offspring of either sex the
art of reading signs on earth, stone, tree
even on water. She shows them the way to
find soaks and springs; the most likely tree
for bardies; the cunningest way to sneak
on ’roos and wallabies. Long before the youth
is ready for initiation into manhood she has
taught him all a nigger should know, and
sometimes a little more. One black mother
took great pains teaching her young hopeful
the best method of snaking his way into the
tents of the white men and stealing during
the owner’s presence. Her pupil successfully
raided many canvas dwellings, and would
never have been found out but for Nor-
Western rum, He was not the consumer. A
shearer went on the razzle-dazzle and one
night found himself in his bunk with many
strange jim-jamistic creatures leering at him
from odd corners. They vanished as he
grabbed, but the thieving nigger under the
bunk didn’t. He escaped nearly in pieces
when the shearer had spent his frenzied
wrath bashing him about the premises.
* * * *
“Fingerpoint” : Along portions of the Cape
York Peninsula coast, particularly north and
south of the Escape, in the Red Cliffs, and
along the coastline opposite Hannibal Island,
are secret caves which have only been seen
by white men initiated into tribal brother-
hood. Inside are aboriginal paintings, almost
all of sex subjects, arranged in such a way
as to suggest that the subjects had been
idolised, or at the least regarded as a matter
of supreme importance in life. Natives deny
all knowledge of these caves, but there are
other art galleries less hard of access which
any white man may inspect for all they care.
These contain crude but often quite lifelike
representations of alligators, bats, ’roos, man
and women, birds and snakes. Colored ochres
were the paints employed.
if * * *
“Gouger” : “Kiriwina” is in error when he
ridicules the idea that sea-snakes can bite.
The Japanese and Island divers of the
Strait promptly clear to a new anchorage if,
on diving down, they find that the black-and-
white-banded sea-snake is in a sea-garden
below. The Islanders have been used ro
those waters for centuries, and they say,
“If black-an’-white snake he bitem, you
die!” These snakes have been known to snap
through the leg sinews of a swimming boy.
I once saw a Jap with the back of his hand
sheared through, due to a bite from a sea-
snake as the diver thrust his hand among the
sponges to grasp a pearl-shell. This same
species of snake, particularly if mating, will
chase a boy up from below to the very deck
of the lugger.
« * * *
“Murkah”: I know a Terrible Hollow,
though it’d too small for stock hiding. It. is
a wall-sided pocket in the ranges near
Toowoomba (Q.), and measures, about 14ft.
in depth by perhaps 30ft in diameter. A
cow that tumbled into it had to be got out
with ropes. The bottom was littered with the
bones of past victims, including here and there
the delicate tracery of a snake s skeleton.
After the cow episode the owner smashed
down one of the sides with a pick so that
future victims might be able to scramble
out.
SUNDAY IN CAMP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Did the blankers see you cornin’? Was
there anyone about?
’Ave a screw around the corner while I get
a bottle out.
They’ve been watching all the mornin’ —
couldn’t move but what they knew—
An’ I know what they are after, an’ they
know I know it, too.
“They were all down at the boozer, an’ they
got ’ome late last night,
An’ they’re tellin’ one another that I’m
sure to come to light.
But it’s time they took a tumble. I’m not
failin’ any more,
For I’ve spent a mort o’ Sundays in this
flamin’ camp before.
“Though a bloke should be as easy as ’is
oscar will permit,
There are times when ’e ’as gotter think
about ’imself a bit.
Though it’s ’ard to see them suffer, you an’
I ’ave done the same;
After all, the silly blankers only ’ave
themselves to blame.
“ ’Ere's a go, Bill! Always ’urts me to be
’ard on any man,
An’ I like to do my fellows a good turn
whene’er I can.
But a blanky cove ’as gotter keep a watch
out for the ’urns,
Or ’e’ll do a blinkin’ perish when the day
of reck’nin’ comes.”
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


<J£a^veTrvaddLtfcsL(?i
i/fe *waytfaysui Tixaudji.
' • ‘ s” >•
I
Si®
MM
a
m - m
•>
gsss
\&w '
i
*
m j % v i
WW V
A
JT-
sm
1
w
V--
SJ
w
V-
*\
SKP*
5
■jmmi
m
ii
I
A,
Mi
I [||HpSP If ißjlipPg’ ii
■■■MS a I
, 'A 5 I
V ...
axA/A/A... i
III :' ■; : '.A,- : : 1 ill : ' A x;A X .i: A:'Ax : '':':A : : :AA : AxV-AAA; •
■ A a Ax/, V: /
MARK
TRADE
NAVY CUT
CIGARETTES


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney!
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
e
Promptness—The first essential of Assurance.
P. & C. take pride in acting quickly. Every claim has immediate
attention. This is only one of the many advantages that com-
mend P. &C. Assurance to the man on the land. Policies car-
ried on during times of stress —money set aside each year for loans to
members. P. &C. is linked up with the most influential Co-operative
bodies, and clients' interests are closely guarded. Here are plain
facts for commonsense men—P. & C. Assurance is the kind you need
—investigate the policies right away. Send for literature.
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K, Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS 0/ CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD
=r> 114*120 CASTLEREAQM ST. SYDNEY c«|
THE
Farmers U Settlers
Co-operative Insurance
Co. of Australia, Ltd.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL,
£250,000 *
Fire, Accident, Marine, Motor-car,
Workers’ Compensation, Growing
Crops, Stacks, Wool, Fencing.
SPECIALISING IN INSURANCE
FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND
ACTIVE AGENTS REQUIRED
WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
N.S.W. Office:
Wingeio House, Angel Place, Sydhey
F. D. POWELL, Manager.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
WOOD ASHES AS FERTILISER.
“Nall a ”; The value of wood ashes as a
fertiliser is demonstrated by > the luxuriant
growth that follows a bush- or grass-fire.
Even the small but regular supply from
the household fires should be made use of.
The ashes contain the mineral portion of the
wood from which they have been obtained—
lime, potash and phosphoric acid, substances
which, with the exception* of nitrogen, form
all the ingredients of a complete manure. But
don’t mix a nitrate, such as nitrate of soda,
with the ashes to form a complete manure,
as chemical changes will take place that
will spoil the lot.
In addition to their high value as plant
food, ashes improve the quality of stiff or
clayey soils ; bind light and sandy loams and
generally will replace lime for these pur-
poses. By mixing scwt. of bone-dust with
a ton of ashes you have a complete substi-
tute for farmyard manure as regards fer-
tilising value. This mixture should be made
as required, and should not be stored. Plough
it in. Wood ashes make a good top-dressing
for grasses and pastures, and especially for
leguminous plants. Clovers will thrive under
the treatment. Use the ashes at the rate of
a ton to the acre. Potatoes and all root
crops are benefited by treatment with wood
ashes. Use freely in the furrows before you
drop the spuds, and top-dress when 'the
plants are about six inches high. Liberal
quantities of wood ashes dug in around fruit
trees and vines will improve growth and
cropping. Wood ashes may also be used
instead of earth or sand for mixing with
super, or any other chemical fertiliser that
does not contain ammonium salts.
If you want to save money by making
ashes it will be found that young plants and
small branches, leaves and twigs will provide
a richer ash than the wood from trunks of
trees. Burn dry grass at suitable times,
and if you have a crop such as millet that
has gone dry and woody, burn that, too,
instead of turning it in.
STORING HAY.
“Gaco”: Even the best of stack-builders
cannot put a thatch on the stack that is as
waterproof as an iron roof, and therefore a
farmer who wants to store a small amount
of hay is safer with an iron roof over it.
The average wheat-farmer grows wheat for
grain, not for hay; all the hay he needs to
make is sufficient to feed his working horses
for the ensuing year. Every acre h e cuts for
hay means one acre less to harvest for grain ;
consequently a few pounds less in the year’s
income.
Wheaten hay is hard to keep, anyhow. It
does not hold its good qualities over a series
of years as lucerne does. There is the ever-
present danger of infestation from mice, and
even when the greatest precautions' are taken
in building mouseproof fences around the
stack, sooner or later the rodents will find
their way through the barriers.
Under the present Rural Workers’ Award,
moreover, there is no encouragement in
N.S.W. to build stacks. While the ordinary
harvest hand is paid 14s. per day, the expert
stack-builder can command 235. per day.
That extra 9s. per day would buy two
sheets of Bft. galvanised iron, which will last
for years and will be a much better invest-
ment than paying an extra 9s. per day co a,
stack-builder every year.
Of course there are districts where many
of the farmers are expert stack-builders—
districts enjoying a greater (rainfall and
milder climate than is usual in the recognised
wheat districts. On New England and
the Monaro, for instance, where the header or
harvester is never used, oat or wheat crops
have to be cut with a reaper and binder pend-
ing the arrival of the threshing-machine or
the chaffcutter. There the farmer will scoff
at sheets of iron. But for the average wheat-
farmer the old type of stack-building is no
longer good economy.
GETTING UP THE SMALL CLIP.
“Bill R.”: Attractiveness of the small
owner’s clip is a first consideration in sell-
ing the wool. The packs should be new and
clean, and carefully preserved from shed
stains, and the bales should be tightly
pressed. Loosely-pressed bales sag out of
shape and are offensive to the expert eye.
As each flock comes in to be shorn the first
half-dozen fleeces should be weighed. Their
average may be taken as the weight per fleece
throughout the flock. On this basis estimate
the number of bales the fleeces will fill,
allowing a weight of 2801 b. to 3001 b. per bale.
Such bales will turn out firm for handling,
and uniform in size and shape.
If insufficient wool remains to complete a
pack of pieces or bellies, it should be pressed
into a butt, shortened by placing a stage
under the bale. Two classes of wool should
never be included in one bale.
Brand the bales clearly and neatly with
well-cut stencil-plates. Arrange the brands
centrally on one side of the bale and do not
brand the ends. The wool-stores men require
that space for their own marks.
WHAT WENT WRONG WITH THE
SILO?
“Cog”: According to the agricultural
experts, stack-building is out of date, and the
farmer is advised to put his fodder down as
ensilage, in which form it is supposed to
keep safe for years, without loss of natural
moisture, proteins, hormones, vitamines,
carbohydrates and all the other ingredients
of tucker of which the cocky hears so much
and knows so little. So some enterprising
farmers on the black soil of the Inverell dis-
trict (N.S.W.), where everything grows in
abundance in a good year, decided to go in
for pit silos. The most alert of them got
ahead _of his mates and put a splendid pit
down in no time. Then the rain commenced,
and at the end of the week the pit was full
of water, and our friend had a new tank on
his premises instead of a silo pit. However,
the rain stopped at last; the other farmers
got their pits down without mishap and
filled them up with succulent fodder and
Thousands of men fail on the land because they don’t know how to
succeed; many thousands more succeed less than they should because
they lack proper guidance.
“The Bulletin” wants to encourage farmers and scientists who know
to help those who don’t know.
With that object it offers two prizes of £2O and £lO for the most
useful contributions to the “Land” pages during the six months
ending June 30 next.
All contributions submitted, whether published or not, will be con-
sidered in awarding points, and the prizes will go to the winners
of most points.
Points will be awarded for interest and practical usefulness.
The prizes are additional to the usual payment for published
contributions. ~
covered them over with great care, to the
approval and gratification of the local agri-
cultural inspector. Visitors from all around
came on Sundays to look at those beautiful
pits, and the fodder Iqw there for a couple of
years, the joy and pride of the owners, and
the envy of everyone else.
Then the dry weather set in. The silo-
owning farmers began to tell their neighbors
that a bit of a drought would not affect them
as they had plenty of feed in reserve. The
drought persisted, the silos were opened and
—there was no silage there! It was use-
less to blame the neighbors ; it was obvious
that they had not come, like a thief in the
night, and taken it away. No, it had just
gone. Where to, how, why, when —no one
knew. The agricultural inspector came,
looked very wise, asked -a lot of questions
and gave up the riddle in despair. He would
report to the department and see what it
had to say. To date the departmental
chemists have said nothing publicly ; but no
doubt they will issue a learned bulletin on
the subject some day. A tentative sugges-
tion is that there must be some chemical
agent in the black soil in the Inverell dis-
trict' which acts upon the silage in much
the same way as a septic tank absorbs dele-
terious matter.
This remarkable disappearance did not
occur universally in the district, but only
here and there where the pits were put down
in certain sorts of soil. Such a disappear-
ance could occur, as every silo expert knows,
if the pits were put down incorrectly or
improperly covered, but in the instances re-
ferred to this simple explanation was not
available.
SUBTERRANEAN CLOVER.
“Westral”: Less than four years ago the
farm of C. C. Leitch, on the Trigwell Estate.
Boyanup, W.A., had a down-and-out look
about it. The five cows that browsed on his
180 acres were showing their ribs and their
disgust at the scarcity of sustenance. To-day
the holding carries 66 head of dairy stock,
all doing well.
Subterranean clover did the trick. The
county is typical red-gum bush land with a
few jarrahs and an undergrowth of black-
The big timber was ringed, the black-
boys were cut down, and the scrub cleared
by fire in April, 1925. After the fire sub-
terranean clover burr was sown over 15
acres at the rate of 151b*. to the acre and
lewt. super. No plough or harrow or
other implement was used. The clover made
excellent growth, and next year 75 acres were
sown, and the next year another 90 acres,
completing the job. The oldest-sown patch
is described by the W.A. Superintendent of
Dairying, P. G. Hampshire, as “almost equal
to the very best pastures in the South-West.”
The cost of obtaining this result was £2
per acre.
There is any amount of similar country in
W.A., and the multiplication of its stock-
carrying capacity by 12 or 13 times in so
simple and inexpensive a way means a lot
to the State.
A GOOD WORD FOR PRICKLY-PEAR,
“Pro Pear” : Say what they like about the
prickly-pear being a curse, bring in as many
foreign insects to destroy it as you like,
but there’s many a small holder that has a
deep respect for the plant—a respect born of
its help in drought time. It has saved
many a holding from going to 'the dogs
through want of feed both for cattle and
pigs.
The method of feeding pear is to chop it off
at the clump, fork it up and hold it over a
fire till most of the bunches of thorns and
the stiff main spikes are burnt off. The
leaves are then boiled in an old copper until
they are soft. Some users chop it in small
pieces before boiling, others cut it up after-
wards, generally with a sharp spade. The
small pieces, when cool, are placed in the
feed boxes, and are dusted with bran or
pollard. Horses and cows, once they get the
taste, need no second call. The water the
pear is boiled in sets as a thick jelly,
and with a little pollard added makes good
pigfeed. If poddies are to be fed and milk
is scarce, they get a ration, too.
A dairyman on a rented farm in the
County of Cumberland, N.SIW., bumped a
record drought in his first year, and as his
capital was sunk in his herd of 25 cows and
a few pigs, things looked black. The pur-
chase of fodder was out of the question, but
he carted pear for two miles every day for
over 18 months. He treated it in the way
described, and added a little chaff to the
cows’ ration. It was desperately hard work,
but he kept up his milk supply, was able
to rear a few heifers to strengthen his herd
in later years, and did well with his pigs.
He Came out of a two years’ drought with
flying colors, while others round him went
down, or were mortgaged up to the neck. .
AUSTRALIAN PHOSPHATE DEPOSITS.
“Noah Fraid”: “Hanno” (B. 28/11/’2B)
is unduly optimistic about Australian phos-
phate deposits. These are few and far
between, and are not suitable for economical
superphosphate manufacture. The best depo-
sits are in South Australia, but they are
comparatively poor in phosphates, and
impurities minimise their value. Deposits of
wavellite (phosphate of aluminium) asso-
ciated with apatite (phosphate of calcium)
occur at Heathcote (Vic.). They were
worked some years ago, but their exploita-
tion has not proved a success. They are
very slow-acting when applied to the soil,
even when intensely ground and heated, and
are useless for the manufacture of super.
The deposits of bat guano in N. Q’land
were prospected, sampled and analysed many
years ago by one of the largest fertiliser
companies in Australia. I knew the chemist
who did the work, as the result of which the
deposits were condemned as uneconomical.
SORGHUM FOR FODDER.
“Taffy”: A very useful early-winter green
feed is sweet sorghum. It provides a nutri-
tious and bulky growth, not quite as valuable
for food as green maize, but hardier. It
will grow on poorer soil and resist drought
better than maize, and while it thrives best
under a good rainfall the young plants when
established can weather dry spells and re-
spond rapidly to such rain as does fall.
Sorghum is injured by frosts, but it lasts
further on into the winter than maize.
White African is a favorite variety, and
should be grown in districts with a long
summer season. Saccaline has been grown
with success in the coastal districts of N. S.
Wales and No. 61 —now known as Cowper
—-has been found particularly useful on the
middle and South Coast for producing late
autumn feed. An earlier maturing variety
, is Sumac.
In sowing sorghum a maize-planter is used,
fitted with a sorghum-planting plate, or, on
large areas, a wheat-drill may be used, in
both cases without any preliminary plough-
ing of furrows. Alternatively furrows may
be ploughed 4in. or sin. deep, and the seed
then sown by hand or maize-planter. The
rows should be 6ft. apart and 61b. to 81b.
of seed to the acre should be sown in N. S.
W. coastal districts, and 41b. to slb. in drier
parts of the State. One cwt. to two cwt. of
super, per acre should be sown with the seed.
In localities with a good rainfall, and where
weeds are not plentiful, seed may be broad-
cast.
lODINE AND SEAWEED.
“T.W.”: lodine as a stock tonic is coming
into great favor, experiments having proved
its value. However, it is costly, since the stuff
—potassium iodide is its chemical name —
must not be stinted. The right amount to be
used with about a cwt. of other concentrated
stuffs is soz. By stuffs is meant lick con-
stituents, such as salt, boneflour, lime and
sulphur. The chemical of the best quality
costs as much as £3 per lb., and even a very
inferior grade costs 255. per lb. Little good
will come from using inferior grade. In
the experiments conducted by State Agricul-
tural Depts. the right amounts and the best
of iodine are used. Dairymen near the coast
have a supply of this tonic close at hand.
Our beaches are green with seaweed, which
is rich in iodine. English dairymen are now
feeding the weed to their stock, and thereby
profiting. The weed, which is chopped up
and rationed with other stuffs, will not taint
the milk, and Strawberry will consume it
without being forced. It provides a chewy
cud, which is a need of every milk-producer.
Australian dairymen should use about 51b. to
the cwt. of other foods. Seaweed can be
used as an ingredient, too, of foods for other
stock, including poultry.
LOCK-JAW IN HORSES.
“Paul C.”: Horses, as well as other
animals and man, are liable to lock-jaw,
which is caused by a germ, present in dust
or dirt, getting into a wound, (fhe size,
kind or location of the wound has nothing
to do with the danger of lock-jaw sujjer-
vening. Indeed, the wounds most likely to
be followed by the disease are small but deep
punctured ones, such as are caused by nails,
stakes or splinters. This is because the
wound closes and excludes the air. The
germ is dormant while oxygen is present, so
when a punctured wound occurs it should be
opened sufficiently to enable one to dress it
to its extreme depth with a three per cent,
solution of lysol or some other effective germi-
cide. As horses do not seem to get the
disease so severely as sheep or cattle, one
should not despair of the animal recovering
if taken in hand as soon as the trouble begins.
The first symptoms are muscular spasms
about the jaw and neck and a spasmodic
movement of the third eyelid. If possible, the
services of a vet. should be procured to
administer anti-toxin, but to be of much use
anti-toxin must be injected at an early stage.
On the other hand I have known horses to
recover without the aid of the serum.
An affected horse should be put in a quiet
place (a stall or shed if possible), and given
soft mashes as food and plenty of water,
which ought to be placed upon something so
as to be on a level with the animal’s head.
The wound should be kept thoroughly clean
with antiseptic solutions. If these points are
attended to there is a chance of recovery.
BUSH-FIRE BEATERS.
“N.M.L.”: A word about fire-beaters.
Boughs and bags and other story-book appli-
ances are only a waste of time. The bushy
bough of a tree doesn’t last long enough to
warrant breaking, and the rough bark and
other unevennesses cut a man’s hands to
pieces in next to no time. A good kersey
saddle-cloth lasts a long time, and does effec-
tive work, but there’s very little kersey now,
and collar check is no better than a linen
pocket-handkerchief. Basil is fair, and only
fair. It’s about the same as kersey. There’s
only one way to use basil. Get the whole
pelt, cut a hole in the middle of it, drape
it over a broom handle, and tie it securely.
Some people think better work is done by
(Continued on page 25.)


A Good Recovery
READ ARTHUR WRIGHT’S LATEST SPORTING STORY.
One of the Bookstall Series. PRICE, 1/-. POSTED, \/\\
From All Booksellers.
STEELE RUDD’S STORIES.
BACK AT OUR SELECTION
DAD IN POLITICS
DUNCAN McCLURE
FOR LIFE
FROM SELECTION TO CITY
GRANDPA’S SELECTION
MEMOIRS OF CORPORAL
KEELEY
ON AN AUSTRALIAN FARM
ON EMU CREEK
OUR NEW SELECTION
ON OUR SELECTION
SANDY’S SELECTION
STOCKING OUR SELECTION
THE BOOK OF DAN
THE DASHWOODS
THE OLD HOMESTEAD
THE POOR PARSON
Ensign Calder J- H. M. Abbott
The Knight of the Motor Launch
Arthur H. Adams
Eros! Eros Wins F. Agar
The Mare with the Silver Hoof .... Bob Allen
Equality Road Vera Baker
Mystery Outlaw .. ■ • Vera Baker
In Racing Silk Herald R. Baldwin
Lydia’s Lovers Gerald It. Baldwin
Steve Brown’s Bunyip J. A. Barry
Romany Mark 0. Bear
Bully Hayes, Buccaneer Louis Becke
Alad'in and the Boss Cockie, Randolph Bedford
Billy Pagan, Mining Engineer, Randolph Bedford
Silver Star Randolph Bedford
The Double Abduction H. K. Bloxham
On the Fringe of the Never Never,
II. K. Bloxham
Tom, Pagdin, Pirate E. J. Brady
The Lady of the Cavern Hilda Bridges
By Mountain Tracks H. M. Bridges
The Squatter’s Daughter H. M. Bridges
Cards of Fortune Roy Bridges
On His Majesty’s Service Roy Bridges
The Fenceless Ranges Roy Bridges
The “Bulletin” Book of Humorous Verse and
Recitations “Bulletin”
The “Bulletin” Reciter “Bulletin”
The Spell of the Bush John X. Cameron
The Calling Voice E. F. Christie
Stolen or Strayed Dale Collins
South Sea Sinners Arthur Crocker
Great Turon Mvstery Arthur Crocker
For Turon Gold Ron Delaney
A Rebel of the Bush Don Delaney
Gentleman Jack Don Delaney
The White Champion Don Delaney
The Doings of Dave Con Drew
Rogues and Ruses Con Drew
ARTHUR WRIGHT’S SPORTING NOVELS.
A Colt from the Country Arthur Wright
A Game of Chance Arthur Wright
A Rogue’s Luck Arthur AVlight
A Rough Passage Arthur Wright
Boss o’ Yeddcn Arthur Wright
Fettered by Fate Arthur Wright
Gambler’s Gold Arthur Wright
In the Last Stride
Over the Odds
Rung In
The Breed Holds Good
The Outlaw’s Daughter
The Sport from Hollow Log. Flat,
Under a Cloud
Arthur Wright
Arthur Wright
Arthur Wright
Arthur Wright
Arthur Wright
Arthur Wright
Arthur Wright
Red Star A. R. Falk
Children of the Sunlight, John D. Fitzgerald
Queen Vaiti Beatrice Grimshaw
The Coral Queen Beatrice Grimshaw
The Loser Pavs Bert James
Double-bed Dialogues James Henry James
Dawson’s Uncle George Sumner Locke
Mum Dawson—Boss Sumner Locke
Books and Crooks Harry R. McDuffie
Fagaloa’s Daughter Jack McLaren
Oil Seekers Jack McLaren
Red Mountain Jack McLaren
Savagery of Margaret Nestor . . Jack McLaren
The Skipper of the “Roaring Meg,” J. McLaren
Hack’s Brat A. Ian McLeod
At Holland’s Tank Edward Meryon
Yellow Silver Edward Meryon
Harry Dale’s Grand National .... Jack North
Son of the Bush Jack North
Black Opal ac J !T ?^ 01
Bodger and the Boarders K. 0 Ferrall
The "Mount Marunga Mystery .. Harrison Owen
The Plantation Manager Ernest Osborne
The Copra Trader Ernest Osborne
Shanty Keeper’s Daughter .... Vance Palmer
The Boss of Killara Vance Palmer
Mystery of Wall’s Hill, ,, ,,
Sydney Partrige and Cecil Haworth
A Maker of Pearls S. W. Powell
Great Jade Seal S. W. 1 owell
Hermit Island S. W. Powell
The Pearls of Cheong Tail S. W. Powell
Trader of Kameko S. W. Powell
THOMAS SPENCER’S HUMOROUS BOOKS, VERSES AND SKETCHES.
How McDougall Topped the Score and Other
Verses and Sketches Thomas Spencer
That Droll Lady Thomas Spencer
The Spring Cleaning Thomas Spencer
The Surprising Adventures of Bridget Mc-
Sweeney Thomas Spencer
Why Doherty Died Thomas Spencer
The Recipe for Rubber \ Ralph Stock
Tap Tap Island J- M. Walsh
CHARLES WHITE’S AUSTRALIAN BUSHRANGING NOVELS.
Ren Hall Charles White John Vane, Bushranger Charles White
Cantain Moonlite Charles White Martin Cash Charles White
Gardiner, “King of the Road,” Charles White The Kelly Gang Charles White
Great Western Road H. F. Wickham
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
BOOKSTALL CORNER,
Corner CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
FOR CYCLISTS
The
CViain
(every roller revolves)
fitted in conjunction with
the ©Hubs
makes cycling more and more
delightful.
B. W. Chains and Hubsare supported
by many years manufacturing experi-
ence. They are essentially the pro-
ducts of a specialised organisation,
and their periect accuracy in design
and wonderful wearing qualities
insure a service without compare,and
a smooth and silky running which
no other combination can excel.
You should specify them on your
new mount and if any difficulty in
supply write our
factory Representative
JOHN ARNOLD,
Degraves Street, Melbourne, Vic.
G.P.O. Box 71.
DISTRIBUTORS:
Melbourne: Acme Cycle Co.
Sydney: Williams, Dredge & Haydon, Ltd.
Brisbane: J. H. Cowley & Co., Ltd.
Perth: Atkins (W.A.), Ltd.
New Zealand: Adams, Ltd.
Hope Gibbons, Ltd.
E. Reynolds & Co., Ltd.
A STRIKING EXAMPLE OF MODERN BRITISH ENGINEERING.
—i r
s-Hf-
-52
p
The most practical, efficient and simple
Electric Light and Power Plant on the market
“Electolite” is British-made by Boulton and Paul, one of the
world’s most famous and progressive engineering houses, and
it has been equipped with certain wonderful additional features
which have made it admittedly
The most successful electric plant in
existence for Australian rural conditions, .
“ELECTOLITE” plants are built to last—like the firm that
makes them—an organisation that has been established for
over a hundred and thirty years.
“ELECTOLITE” is vibrationless, fool-proof and practically
noiseless.
“ELECTOLITE” not only reduces first cost and maintenance
but gives immensely improved efficiency.
“ELECTOLITE” is compact and clean, and will supply power
for chaff-cutting, milking, separating, shearing, refrigeration,
fans, and vacuum-cleaning, etc., as well as for lighting.
Cut out the hot, dreary drudgery of your women-folk and
Have Your Plant Installed Now
as a
Unique Gift to the whole family that will also
increase the value of your property.
THE PRICES FOR “ELECTOLITE”
are no higher than those charged for
inferior and much less reliable plants.
EASY TERMS MAY BE ARRANGED.
Edmunds Bros. & Co.
Offices:
187 Flinders Lane - -- -- -- -- MELBOURNE
31a Clarence Street --------- - SYDNEY
3a Gilbert Place ADELAIDE
City Buildings, Edward Street BRISBANE
Resident Factory Representative for BOULTON & PAUL:
R. R. FOULSER, 154 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.


SUNSHINE
CULTIVATING
AND SEEDING
MACHINERY
\
m
THE “SUNDERCUT” STUMP JUMP
DISC CULTIVATING PLOUGH
10-disc cuts 5 feet.
14-disc cuts 7 feet.
Unequalled for cultivating hard set fallow,
or fallow covered by heavy weed growth,
paddy-melon, stinkwort, thistles, etc.
Does splendid work in virgin Mallee soils.
Levers fitted for team or tractor pull.
SB
THE “SUNTYNE” COMBINED GRAIN
AND FERTILIZER DRILL AND
SPRING TYNE CULTIVATOR.
1 7 tyne,
25 tyne,
29 tyne,
33 tyne,
41 tyne,
49 tyne,
sows
sows
sows
sows
sows
sows
8
12
14
16
20
24
rows,
rows,
rows,
rows,
rows,
rows,
covering
covering
covering
covering
covering
covering
5 ft.
7ift.
Bift.
9ift.
12ft.
14ft.
Cultivates and sows to any desired depth.
Forms a compact seed bed with thoroughly
pulverised mulch. Tractor Hitch and
Lever can be fitted when ordered.
Write for descriptive literature, prices
and particulars of extended terms.
H. V. McKAY PTY.,LTD.
Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine.
Branches and Agencies:
664 BOURKE STREET WEST, MELBOURNE.
95-97 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
Corner MURRAY AND KING STREETS, PERTH.
H. V. McKAY (QUEENSLAND), LTD., STANLEY STREET, SOUTH
BRISBANE.
to
■7
\
k%
mm
m
»///,
■m
'///M,
rWMW
'V'-M
led se *
Zed
:::::: :
/S.cUl"'”
WHATEVER may be your holi-
day mood ... fishing; game
hunting; alpine climbing;
sight seeing ... you will be enthralled
:by a change amid New Zealand’s be-
witching surroundings, a memorable
holiday at unexpectedly low cost.
Let us send you free literature and
details of fares. Use the coupon!
NEW ZEALAND
GOV’T OFFICES
London Bank Chambers,
20 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
59 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
IN CO-OPERATION WITH
è
WAGONS-UTS CO.
The only Firm with permanent
offices all over the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers pbtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building
Queen Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).


Toughest leather,
Double thickness
At every point the Abbey
Cossack is a boot of maximum
strength, with double upper
and double sole. Shaped to
the foot’s natural curves, it s
made to fit closely and flex
easily.
For the roughest country wear
—for bad weather, there’s no
more durable kind of boot.
The snug .lining is of soft
leather. The tongue is fastened
to the upper by flaps which
pad the boot and exclude grass
seeds and dust.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all
styles—the higher-priced tan
boot has an upper of special
calf. Order the correct Abbey
Polish also (6d. per tin).
TAN WILLOW, 46/6 & 41/6
BLACK BOX CALF, 39/6
New enlarged catalogue posted on request.
ABBEY
Established over 81 years
313 Georgs St. and 224 Pitt St.,
Lios. SYDNEY.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins ... 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
POST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
5^
■« i
futlC®
After A Tiring Day
with its contacts and exposure to dust
and wind that dry your hair and skin,
to say nothing of the risk of infection
caused by the carelessness of others,
Cuticura Soap, with the healing min-
istrations of Cuticura Ointment, comes
as a welcome boon to refresh you
physically and mentally. Add the fra-
grant touch of Cuticura Talcum and
the world takes on new joy.
Soap Is., Ointment Is. and 2s.
Talcum Is. 3d. Sample each free.
Address : “ R.Towns & Co.. Sydney N.S. W.”
IMF* Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
If any illustration in The Buixetin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST COMMERCIAL FORESTRY CO.
SUBSCRIBED SHARE CAPITAL . . . £235,586
SUBSCRIBED BOND CAPITAL . . £2,750,000
BANKERS—THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND AND THEIR AGENTS.
SOLE BROKERS—SMITH, WYLIE AND CO., LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN BRANCHES AT MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE,
PERTH, HOBART AND NEWCASTLE.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCHES—AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH AND DUNEDIN ;
AND AT 36-38 NEW BROAD STREET, LONDON, E.C.2 ; JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA ;
BOMBAY, INDIA; SINGAPORE; KUALA LUMPUR, FEDERATED MALAY STATES.
A
a
m.
The Martin Ditcher
Ditches, Terraces, Cleans and
Sweetens land at the smallest
cost. It does the work of 100
men and lasts a lifetime.
é
rft;"in!]ii’irunnniHnm
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Exton House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
T. & G. BTg, Light Square, Adelaide.
PAY AS YOU GO BY CHEQUE
1. It eliminates unwise spending.
2. It saves time and many steps in settling bills.
3. It gives prestige to your transactions.
4. It instils respect through your association with a reputable bank.
At this Bank you are allowed Interest on your
minimum quarterly balance.
'Slirjprt liters fianLofJlustralta %
HEAD OFFICE 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London
the basil being laced in strips, but that only
tickles a fire. Something is needed to come
down “whoosh” on it to smother it in one
lick, and to brush live embers in on the
burned area.
The best beater of all, and I’ve tried more
than a few, is a bit of leather belting 18in.
to 2ft. long and lOin to 12in. wide from
an old engine drive. The size is dependent
on the weight and thickness of the belting.
It must not be too cumbersome, and the
Wielder must preserve some degree of balance
with the thing if he is going to swing it
for long hours at a shift. The handle should
be not more than 4ft. to 4ft. Gin. in length,
and, above all, must be smooth and easy to
grip. A beater like that, oiled to keep it
pliable when not in use, will last indefinitely,
and in the hands of a skilled user will leave
a track of blackened embers where but a
moment since a flame was dancing brightly.
Some people make the same style of beater,
but use greenhide instead of belting, and
some batten the greenhide across to give
it greater stability. That doesn’t make it
anything more than a fair beater. Green-
hide is too flaccid, having no life and snap,
and after being used for a few minutes it
doubles back at every swing and doesn’t go
to its work with the snap and elasticity of
belting.
WORK IN THE ORCHARD NURSERY.
“XSA”: The orchard nursery requires
particular care during the summer months,
and special attention should be given to both
stocks and budded trees. The stocks must
be encouraged to grow by constant applica-
tion of the hoe. While this is being done any
undue or rank growth should be noted, to
be remembered when budding operations are
undertaken. This is particularly necessary
where bush lemons are being prepared for
citrus culture.
Where buds have successfully taken, the
stock, having been cut back, will commence
to throw out new shoots. These must be
rubbed off at frequent intervals so that the
growth of bud shall not be retarded. This
growth will be very tender, and should be
tied to the length of stock left for the pur-
pose.
Both stocks and budded trees should be
visited by the water-cart if the ground needs
moisture, as it is imperative that they should
not become stunted nor staggy.
Watch should be kept for insect pests,
particularly dicky rice, which will make
short work of the young shoots if allowed.
A dose of lead arsenate is the best medicine
for this gentleman, followed, if necessary,
by another dose a week' after.
When the new growth has reached the
required height, according to type, it should
be pinched back to promote branching. After
that the grower, when dealing with shoots
from the stocks, will find it worth while to
assist the young trees to attain the desired
form.
MORE ABOUT BANANAS.
“Cog”: “Feng-Shui” (B. 12/12/’2B) may
be right about the superiority of various
varieties of bananas grown in the Dutch
East Indies over the Queensland Cavendish,
but authorities on bananas in the chief
banana-growing countries do not share his
opinion. The chief banana-producing coun-
tries grow either the Cavendish, as in the
Canary Islands (annual export 7,000,000
bunches), or the Gros Michel, as in Jamaica,
Honduras and Colombia, which annually ex-
port 18 million, 14 million and 11 million
bunches respectively. The United Fruit Co.
of U.S.A., with a capital of £40,000,000 and
a fleet of 80 steamers, always has 15 to 20
experts scouring the world for suitable new
varieties. To date their efforts have been
fruitless.
Queensland growers have repeatedly re-
quested the Agricultural Department to im-
port and test new varieties, but invariably
are told that the risk of importing disease is
.too great to justify such experiments. There’s
good reason for that policy. The banana
weevil borer was imported by the department
in a shipment of Gros Michel plants from
Jamaica, and that pest has caused damage
to the extent of millions of pounds. Bunchy-
top disease, which wiped out the banana in-
dustry in northern N.S.W., was imported
. from Fiji, and there is a deep suspicion that
leaf-spot disease, at present playing havoc
in South Queensland, emanated from Fiji
also.
For general purposes Cavendish is as good
a banana as anyone could wish. Admittedly
the Southern folks rarely get a true flavored
banana to eat, but that is the fault of unsuit-
able transport and the inefficient ripening
methods employed in southern cities.
The Queensland growers last year sent
their manager to America to investigate
banana affairs. He returned with full infor-
mation as to correct ripening methods and the
buildings, apparatus, temperatures, . etc.,
necessary to achieve a perfectly. ripened
banana. The information was handed over
to banana merchants in the South, but to
date they have made no change in their
methods. The Queensland Banana Com-
mittee now proposes to hand over the whole
of the State’s banana yield to a private com-
pany, which will undertake distribution and
will erect modern ripening rooms according
to approved specifications. A ballot of
growers is to be taken on the question
shortly.
DAM MAKING.
“Paul C.”: The most convenient site for
a dam is where a gully narrows in its course.
It is necessary to sink a hole to find out
the nature of the foundation. If it is sandy
or gravelly it is useless.
In order to decide how wide the founda-
tion should be dug, one must first ascertain
how high the wall is going to be. It. should
be at least three feet higher than the antici-
pated water-level when the dam is full. The
foundation excavation should be dug with a
view to the rule that the batter on the
water side should be 3 to 1 and on the
opposite side 2 to 1, while the width of the
top of the wall when finished should be
2ft. for every 3ft of depth.
When the plough and scoop are put to
work, the surface soil should be placed aside,
and should only be used on the outer side of
the wall. The best material dug out of the
trench and the side excavations should be
used for the inner or water side of the wall.
In building the wall it is desirable to keep
it dished in the centre while work is pro-
ceeding. The team working across it will
solidify the wall. A bywash should be
made to carry off surplus water and save
the wall from destruction in flood time. This
bywash should have its bottom on a level
with the high-water line on the water side,
and it should be logged so that the running
water will not scour it out. Its return to
the gully should be well below the outer
toe of the wall.
When the wall is completed, plant couch
or other root-matting grass on its top and
outer side, as this keeps the bank from
washing away during heavy rains.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How to prepare and apply arsenitc of soda
for the eradication of blackberry? —79B3.
Mix lib. caustic soda and 11b. arsenic and
dilute with 2gals. water. Arscnite of soda
can also be purchased already mixed, in
which case it should be diluted lib. to 2gals.
water, and the solution applied in the form
of a fine spray.
(1) What chance is there of securing
Crown land and (2) private unproved prop-
erties in Westralia? (3) Are the wheat
possibilities of Westralia over-boomed? (4)
Is there much prospect of securing employ-
ment on railway construction jobs there?
(5) Could a man with pastoral experience
get a job quickly? (6) Railway fares from
Melbourne to Perth? —8093.
(1) As regards wheat land, the number of
applicants is very great and you might have
to wait some time before being successful.
But considerable tracts of country are to be
opened up south of Southern Cross. (2)
Good; there are many improved private
properties available at prices ranging from
£2 10s. to £7 per acre. (3) Boomers are
always with us. Given sound farming
methods Westralia is unquestionably a good
wheat country, and the rapid increase of the
yield is very impressive. (4) That branch
of the labor market is over-supplied in West-
ralia and every other State. (5) He should,
if he is the right sort of man. (6) First-
class £l5 Os. 9d., second-class £9 Bs. 6d.
Docs super, deplete the lime content of
soil, and tvould its continual use cause sorrel
to grow? What sort of land would one use
basic phosphate on? —7712.
The old idea that the use of super, tends
to deplete the lime content of the soil —in
other words, to render the soil sour —has been
exploded. Experiments with large quanti-
ties of super, carried out at Rotliamsted for
a period of 60 years has not resulted in
increasing the acidity of the soil. Valuable
information on the subject has also resulted
from experiments which have been conducted
at many American experiment stations over
long periods, indicating that not only is the
soil not acidified but that in some instances
there has even been a decrease in the acidity
in consequence of applications of large quan-
tities of super. Increased growth of sorrel
is stimulated by super, applications, as is the
case with almost all crops. As sorrel
flourishes in sour soils, this has caused some
farmers to form erroneous impressions that
the super, has had the effect of increasing
the acidity of the soil. Basic superphosphate
is superphosphate to which lime has been
added, and can be prepared by mixing four
parts super, with one part air-slaked lime;
it is valuable for fertilising leguminous crops,
particularly vegetables, such as peas and
beans, and is also considered to be more effec-
tive than super, on soils that are acid.
How much can I afford to pay for 2000
acres of grazing land in N.S.W. capable of
carrying one sheep to the acre, allowing for
6 p.c. interest on capital invested , and a fair
return for personal exertion? —8078.
A leading Sydney wool firm gives the fol-
lowing estimate: 2000 acres freehold at £G,
£12,000; 2000 sheep at 305., £3000; plant,
furniture and incidental expenses. £1000;
total, £16,000. Net return from 2000 sheep
per annum, at 17s. 6d. a piece, £1750; in-
terest at 6 p.c. on £16,000, £960; balance
as reward for personal exertion, £790. The
degree of skill of management and the nature
of the country, of course, affect the equation.
There is land in Southern N.S.W. suitable
for breeding, fattening and wool-growing for
which it might be safe to pay £7 or even
£8 per acre if first-class management were
assured, even on a one-sheep-to-the-acre basis.
For the man not acquainted with local con-
ditions the northern part of the State offers
advantages.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Eureka” : I have discovered a sure means
of trapping rats and mice. Set an ordinary
spring-trap, baited, and put an old piece of
mirror under the bait. Rats and mice, like
women, are both vain and inquisitive, and
cannot resist the temptation to look in the
mirror. In their excitement they forget the
danger of the trap. Another method is to
put a mirror on the wall near the floor and
set the trap in front of it.
“Drover”: Both overshot dams and tanks
require cleaning out, otherwise they’ll silt up.
Heavy floods do a lot of the work, and will
give the rubbish contents at the bottom a
start, but in average seasons both dams and
tanks should be scooped out once a year.
A few days’ work with a scoop and team may
mean an additional six months’ water supply
in a dry time. Drought-time offers ample
opportunities to clean out tanks and dams.
“Bushman”: To grow tomatoes in dry
weather, plant them close together and sink
jam-tins in between the plants. Train the
plants to a trellis, and water through the
tins only.
“Con Creet”: Use all old manure and rub-
bish, such as dry grass and leaves, to cover
the soil round plants and the soil will keep
cool and retain moisture longer. Plants
die in dry weather through the earth caking
round them. Their roots need air as well as
moisture.
“Valerin”: Don’t throw away the waste
oil from cars or tractors. It makes a splendid
preservative for timber, and acts as a deter-
rent to white ants. A couple of coats of
this oil on farm gates and outbuildings will
double their lives and keep out the white
ant. A dressing on the top of cypress-pine
posts will prevent their splitting!


Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Energetic man (42), wife, 2 children,
wants management of up-to-date sheep pro-
perty, N.S.W. or Q. Used to all kinds
machinery; lifelong experience Vic. and
Riverina. —S080.
Australian boy wishes to exchange Aus.
stamps with boys in N.Z., Pacific Islands
and Irish Free State, 100 for 100. (To II.
Nicholas, 45 Booth-street, Golden Square,
Bendigo, Vic.)
Young printer seeks position anywhere,
first-class references. Urgent. (To E. Robi-
son, Stuart-street. Mullumbimby, N.S.W.)
Homestead cook and baker, life-long ex-
perience, seeks a change where son (15),
good milker, would be likely to receive
further experience.—8090.
By young married lady with boy three
years old, accommodation, six weeks to three
months, private house or farm, Moss Vale
(N.S.W.) district. —8124.
Young man, good athlete, would take any
hazardous job, carrying compensating remu-
neration. —8123.
Young man (23) wants job as valet, Mel-
bourne ; in present position seven years.—
8119.
Copy of “Baekblock Ballads and Lignum
Lyrics,” by Jack Mathieu. —8120.
Infidel would like correspond with some
other infidel, N.Q. or Islands.—8113.
To buy Art in Australia, first series,
No. 11.—8081.
To correspond with Bulletin readers.
(To Miss V. Holmes, Broadmarsh, Southern
Tasmania.)
Information Sought.
How can I appeal against the cancellation
of war pension after examination by a local
doctor? —7962.
An appeal should be made in writing to
the Deputy-Commissioner for Repatriation
in the State in which you reside. The appeal,
after investigation, will then he forwarded
to the Repatriation Commission, which is
the correctly-constituted appellant body. An
appeal should set out fully the grounds on
which the appeal is based.
The date 'on which IT.M.A.S. Melbourne
left Sydney for England to be scrapped ? —
8018.
February 9, 1928. Her last Australian
port of call was Darwin, which she left on
February 22, arriving at Portsmouth on
April 12.
(1) Is Kenya Colony suitable for sheep-
farming? (2) What is the altitude? (3)
How can Crown land be acquired? (4)
Approximate cost of passage from Sydney? —
7514.
(1) Sheep do well in certain parts of the
highlands, especially the Rift Valley and
Masai Reserve; the slopes of Mt. Kenya
are said to be equally good. But the indus-
try has had to contend with many draw-
backs, and its progress cannot be said to be
rapid. For the five years ending 1926 the
total value of the wool clip was only
£181,188. (2) Fairly high; much of the area
occupied is from 3000 to 4500 feet, and there
are peaks that are always snow-capped. (3)
Crown land is acquired at auction only, three
months’ notice of which is given by the Com-
missioner of Lands. Ten per cent, deposit
is required; the balance is payable by nine
equal yearly instalments. For further par-
ticulars “The South and East African Year
Book, 1928,” or write Lands Dept., Nairobi,
Kenya Colony. Occupied grazing land is
priced at from 5s. to £1 per acre. (4)
Travelling to Durban by boat and changing
there into another boat for Mombassa would
run out at about £82 first-class, £60 second-
class, and £45 third-class.
(1) What was the result of the appeal to
the Q’land Supreme Court against the taxing
of Commonwealth bonds under the Queens-
land Gift Duty Act of 1926 ? (2) What were
the other questions involved, and what was
the Court’s decision? —8118.
(1) The Court gave judgment in favor
of the appellant in regard to the taxing of
Commonwealth bonds, and therefore such
gifts cannot be taxed by the State. (2) (a)
The assessment of duty on S.A. inscribed
stock; (b) the assessment* of certain shares
in companies; (c) the assessment of duty on
mortgage debts secured on freehold proper-
ties in S.A.. It was argued by the appellants
that these assessments contravened the Com-
monwealth of Australia Constitution Act,
and as the objections raised questions as to
the limits, inter sc, of the constitutional
powers of the Commonwealth and of the
States, the Queensland Supreme Court would
not proceed further. These questions will
be argued before the High Court of Aus-
tralia.
Is there any strain of Spanish blood in
the Welsh people? —7409.
As far as is known, there has been no
immigration from Spain since the beginning
of the historic period, about 100 b.c. ; of
course, there may have been in prehistoric
times either direct or by way of France.
The dark complexions of many Welsh people
are attributed to the Celtic strain. When
the Romans arrived in Wales in 55 B.c.
our distinct tribes, the Decangi,
the Ordoirses, the Dimetae and the Silvres.
None of these showed any signs of Spanish
descent.
I am a new motor-car owner bombarded
with advice about benzine and oils. The
latter have me most puzzled. What is the
difference between the oils offered —I am
speaking not about about quality but about
cli aracteristics ? —BIO6.
According to the Mellon Institute of Indus-
trial Research, University of Pittsburgh,
which details exhaustive investigations,
there are two main classes of mineral oils
used for motor-car lubrication —blended and
distilled. The first, in the heavier grades,
is of a dark green color, and is made by
distilling from the crude oil a very thin pro-
duct, leaving a heavy, very dark residue, a
blend then being made of these two by means
of which an oil of different grades for dif-
ferent types of engines is obtained. The
second, light golden in color, is an oil that
has been directly produced to the sought-for
consistency by distillation and with no
admixture of the residue. Certain oil fields
in the Mexican Gulf produce an oil that can
be economically distilfcd directly to the
various grades required. The Mellon Insti-
tute tests indicated that, by subjecting dis-
tilled oils to drastic filtration, carbon residue
can be practically eliminated from them.
It was established by the same tests that
filtered distilled oils of the same grade can
be satisfactorily used both winter and sum-
mer, that consumption of distilled oils is no
higher than that of blended oils, and that
they have great resistance to heat.
I have a patented tool which I think can
be actually made for about 3s. At about
what price could it be put on the market?—
7963.
This Department’s best answer may be
to quote an ascertained case. The article
was made for 4s. The inventor wanted 2s.
royalty. The syndicate which had taken
it over from him also wanted 2s. Total, Bs.
The article is on the market at 17s. 6d., the
9s. 6d. being made up of cartage, wholesaler’s
charges, freight and distribution, retailer’s
profit and advertising.
What is the position of Bond’s Cotton
Mills Cos. ? —8043.
According to the latest statement of the
co., now in liquidation, “the receivers are
still in possession and it is now apparent
that when the bank is paid out the stocks
remaining will not meet creditors’ claims.”
Shareholders will therefore get only what is
left from the sale of the fixed assets after
creditors are satisfied ; but first prefs.’ posi-
tion is less hopeless than that of share-
holders in the parent co.
I'he best method of marking towels and
similar articles in constant use? —7750.
Stitching with red thread is adjudged the
most durable and satisfactory. A good mark-
ing ink gives many years of service, but
unless it is carefully put on is apt to burn
out and leave small holes. Woven names
on tape may also be procured for sewing on,
but are easily removed. Any large drapery
store would quote for these. If the linen
is good, embroidered monograms or initials
are recommended.
How to remove paint and varnish stains
from a hardwood verandah? —8054.
Scrape the stains gently with a knife, rub
with benzine, petrol or kerosene, and finish
off with sandpaper. Then wash the verandah
with hot soapy water to clean up oil-marks.
I live near a boarding-house whose kitchen
chimney wafts soot through my flat, ruining
my furnishings and preventing my keeping
windows open. What can I do? —8102.
An essential question is, “Did you come
to the nuisance or did the nuisance come to
you?” If the kitchen chimney existed when
you took the flat it would be presumed that
you were aware of the fact and accepted it.
On the other hand, if it has been built since
you moved in you may have grounds for an
injunction.
(1) Are any railway construction
works being carried out in N.S.W., and how
long is work on each likely to last? (2) Who
engages the staff and what arc the wages,
hours and conditions of employment? (3)
Where are porters and fettlers engaged? —
7967.
(1) Many miles of railway are under con-
struction ; the duration of each job and the
opening up of new works are governed by
the amount of money made available. (2)
Labor Bureau, George-street North, Sydney.
A minimum wage of £4 19s. 6d. per week of
44 hours is prescribed under N.S.W. award,
preference being given to returned soldiers.
Tents are supplied by the Railway Depart-
ment at a nominal rental; other equipment
has to be provided by the men. (3) Porters
and fettlers are engaged by the Railway and
Tramway Staff Board, Central Station, Syd-
ney. Porters are taken on up to the age of
35 years and fettlers up to the age of 45
years, subject to their passing a satisfactory
medical examination and a simple educa-
tional test. The minimum wage for porters
is 15s. 2d. per day and for fettlers 15s. 4d.
per day.
Can you siphon a tank if the water has to
come up Qft. before it falls? —7996.
The leg of a siphon from which water
is discharged must be longer than the leg
of the inlet. The crown (or top) of-the
siphon can be up to 25ft. higher than water
to be siphoned, provided the discharge end
is lower than the lowest water level. It is
advisable to fit a foot (or back pressure)
valve on the end of the siphon pipe in the
well and a stop tap at the end of the outlet,
also a tee-piece at the crown of the siphon
with a plug in the centre outlet of the tee
for priming purposes. If possible let the dis-
charge end be under water (by immersing
in a bucket or kerosene tin).
How to get the best results from setting
turkey eggs? —Boss.
They should be hatched by turkey hens
where practicable, but other‘hens will do.
Incubators are not recommended. Turkey
hens will be found to set best when they
make their own nests; sometimes, however,
it is necessary to put shelter over them, with
a few bushes in front to make the nest look
as natural as possible. Feed and water
should, of course, be placed near the nest.
Grain, either maize or wheat or both, may
be used. If the chickens are not hatching
all together better take them away from the
hen as they become dry, so that the hen will
sit quietly and hatch the balance. When
taken away the chickens should be put into
a basket or box lined with flannel or some
woollen material, and kept warm until the
hatch is complete ; then they should be given
back to the hen. The hen should be confined
to a small enclosure for three weeks to pre-
vent her roaming too far and wearying the
chickens.
I have been in the habit of softening
steelite leather by warming it in an oven or
in hot water. This treatment failed to soften
the last piece I bought; what can I do to
make it pliable? —Bo39.
Warming in an oven or in hot, water should
do the business where the steelite leather is
of good quality. The fault is due to one
of two causes—either the leather was in-
sufficiently chrome tanned or improper
materials were used in its manufacture, ren-
dering it hard and natureless. No remedy
can be suggested.
Has it ever been proved that fish have
fallen to earth from aloft during rain? If
so, how do they get into the air and why are
they not injured in falling? —79Bo.
There is abundance of evidence that small
freshwater fish have descended to earth
during heavy rain. Such fish have never
been observed to be sucked up into the air
in a waterspout or by very heavy wind, but
their presence in the air seemingly cannot be
accounted for on any other assumption. They
could not live for any length of time in the
air; obviously, therefore, they must have
been removed from the water by some
agency, and it is difficult to conceive any
other than a waterspout or a very strong
wind. In view of the fact that these fish
come down only during heavy rain, they fall,
not on hard ground, but into a layer of
water, which serves to break their fall.
Doubtless numbers are killed.
The elders of our N.S.W. country church
have refused the bazaar committee permis-
sion to conduct, raffles or lotteries, on the
ground that they are illegal. What does the
Act say? —Bo63.
(1) “Where a bazaar or fancy fair is
held for raising funds in aid of any eleemo-
synary or charitable institution, either sepa-
rately or in conjunction with or in the same
building or enclosed space as an entertain-
ment of any kind held for a like purpose
and not for private gain, the sale of goods,
wares and merchandise other than spirit-
uous or fermented liquors or tobacco in any
form may be effected at such bazaar or
fancy fair by lottery or raffle: Provided that
no goods, wares or merchandise shall be so
sold unless they are exposed for sale at the
bazaar or fancy fair, and no shares or tickets
in the lottery or raffle shall be sold or offered
for sale at any place other than at the bazaar
or fancy fair, or in the same building or
enclosed space as the case may be.”
Is a man who deserts his wife and leaves
her without support entitled to the old-age
pension ? —8046.
In certain cases he might be —for a time,
at least. lie would have to show that “he
has not for 12 months or upwards during five
years immediately preceding” the date of
application, “without just cause deserted his
wife, or without just cause failed-to provide
her with adequate means of maintenance, or
neglected to maintain any of his children
under the age of 14 years.”
What facilities are there for learning X-ray
work in Sydney? —7993.
Thesubjectisdealtwith in the third-year phy-
sics course at the University. A special course
on X-rays and radium was given to gradu-
ates in medicine; this latter • course was
arranged by the Cancer Research Committee,
and may be given again. However, it is not
likolv to be open to others than graduates in
medicine.
(1 ) Prospects for employment of a young
electrical engineer, highest Belgian diplomas?
(2) Is employment of qualified technical men
increasing in electrical branches of Aus-
tralian industry? (3) Commencing salary
for such an engineer ?— 8025.
(1) Not good in N.S.W. at present. (2)
Yes. (3) About £350 p.a.
(1) Can a batsman be given out l.b.w.
to a break ball? (2) Did English cricketers
play Test matches in Australia during the
1926-27 season? (3) When and where did
England win “the ashes ” from Australia
since the war? (4) What are “the ashes”?
—BOB2.
(1) Yes, provided the ball pitches on the
wicket and in the umpire’s opinion would
have hit it but for the interference. For
instance, a ball pitching on the off stump and
breaking on to the leg stump, or vice versa.
(2) No. (3) At Kennington Oval, England,
in 1926. (4) The expression seems to have
had its origin in. an “In Memoriam” notice
published in London Sporting Life after
the defeat of England at Kennington Oval
in 1882. This was “In affectionate remem-
brance of English cricket,” and i,t was added
that the body would be cremated and the
ashes taken to Australia. There seem to be
several “sets” of ashes in existence. The
late Lord Darnley (Ivo Bligh) had an urn
containing ashes of a set of stumps presented
to him in Melbourne. When England won in
Melbourne in 1912 another stump used in
the match was cremated, and the ashes, con-
tained in a gold model of a cricket ball, were
presented to the English manager, T. Pawley.
Information Supplied.
7581. —-To clean a plaster model of a head
which has worn yellow, with a very sharp
knife or small scraping tool lightly scrape
the model until of its original whiteness and
smoothness. The work will require delicacy
of touch, precision and care that the scraper
does not leave its track —“Rotom.”
7856. —To stop boots from squeaking, place
them m a shallow vessel and pour in enough
neatsfoot oil to just cover the tops of the
soles. Leave for three or four days ; clean
off the oil and tidy up with polish where
necessary.—“Dundas.”
Does Anybody Know ?
Method of slabbing a 4ft. by 6ft. well about
50ft. deep ; most serviceable timber for slabs
and how to erect windlass?—79s9.
A good inside lining (not concrete) for a
galvanised-iron tank that will prevent rust
and metallic taste in the water. —7533.
Brief Answers.
S.H.: Don’t know one of those proposi-
tions that isn’t highly speculative. But why ask
us after you have bought in?. ...M.M.: What are
the pans to be used for? Must have that informa-
tion. . . .W. 0.8.: (X) The name of Sir Francis Drake’s
mother is unknown; E. F. Benson, the latest to
write about Drake, has been unable to throw any
light on the mystery. There is even doubt about the
year of Drake’s birth, different authorities making
it 1538, 1539, 1541 and 1546, though the evidence
points to 15 v 4l. His father, Edmund Drake, was
an agricultural laborer who rose to be an Anglican
clergyman. (2) Suggest you make local inquiries.
. ...J.8.: (1) and (2) The winnings are not subject
to income-tax and need not be included in returns.
(3), (4) and (5) Particulars too vague. Submit the
matter to the Income Tax Department, Brisbane....
A.M.: Method of counting votes for the Senate is
fully described on page 266, vol. 11, “The Australian
Encyclopaedia.” Commonwealth Electoral Officer, 303
Adelaide-street, Brisbane, will probably be able to
give you a printed slip describing the procedure....
F.A.W.: (1) Stocked by Latimer Bros., 281 George-
street. (2) Write to Sayers Allport, 53 Macquarie-
street—both these of Sydney... .E.V.D.: Sug-
gest “Hints About Investments” and “Stocks and
Shares,” by Hartley Withers. .. .H. 8.1.: Curtis
Brown, Ltd., Knickerbocker Theatre Building, 116
West 39th-street; Paul R. Reynolds, 599 Fifth-
avenue; Hughes, Massie and Cos., 347 Fifth-avenue —
all of New York... .P.P.: (1) Anything between
60,000 and 100,000 words; something around 80,000
words has been found most suitable. (2) About
90,000 words. (3) While typed MSS. is preferred,
there is no objection to handwriting if
clear and legible. .. .8.0. F.: A high degree of
safety and 10 p.c. don’t run together... .T.V.W.:
Afraid you can’t pull out, anyhow. You have
contracted to pay the full face value of the scrip
if it is called for... . J.F.: Angus and Robertson, 6s. 3d.,
posted. . . .D.C.0.C.: There are various N.S.W. awards
covering motor-lorry drivers; copies can be got
from the Government Printer, Sydney, for 4d. each.
When applying, state the industry in which lorries
are engaged and the portion of the State in which
you are employed... .H.8.D.: The firm pays the
solicitor’s costs... .V.D.: You are responsible for the
rent over the whole period of the lease, but
probably it contains a proviso with regard to sub-
letting.... G.W.: N.S.W. newspapers are not per-
mitted to supply information concerning sweeps
conducted outside the State... .T.L.C.: J. IL. M.
Abbott has had published two books of short stories.
“Plains and Veldt” (Methuen, 1903) and “Ensign
Calder” (N.S.W. Bookstall Cos., 1922) S.T.E.:
The first motor-car was registered in N.S.W. on
March 9, 1910... .T.W.C.: Cannot give exact figures,
as invoice prices are known only to distributors.
Allowing for customary margin of profit the duty for
cars with imported two-seater touring body and
accessories should be approximately (1) £80; (2)
£B2 10s.; (3) £55 E.S.W.: Ortho-dichloro-
benzine appears to be unobtainable in Sydney....
R.P.D.: The contributor is unable to state where
the seed can be got. Write the Department of
Agriculture, Brisbane'. .. .J.W.: Lyster Ormsby, 220
Pitt-street; Miller Stokes, 52 Margaret-street;
Tyrrell’s, Ltd., 26 Martin-place; E. D. Brukarz, 19
Pitt-street—all of Sydney... , L,S. arid G.R.W.: Com-
municate with the Water Conservation and Irriga-
tion Commission, 247 George-street, Sydney....
A.A.F.: (1) Marriage confers on a wife her husband’s
surname only. She retains her own Christian name,
but in social usage is frequently referred to by both
Christian and surname of her husband. (2) She
is entitled to neither surname nor Christian name,
but usage follows the custom above stated in rela-
tion to a divorced woman as well as to a wife....
E.A.F.: Information of that nature cannot be given
without the permission of the person concerned, and
the lady does not feel disposed to grant the per-
mission. .. .A.R.: Certain species of both locusts
and grasshoppers are pests to orchardists and agri-
culturists. To explain the differences between the
many distinct species would require more space than
we can give. See R. J. Tillyard’s “Insects of Aus-
tralia and New Zealand” and the “Australian Ency-
clopaedia”... .E.A.W.: Before a definite reply can be
given, information is required about (1) details of
gross property income; (2) separate amounts of
rates, ‘fire insurance and repairs applicable to (a)
income-producing and (6) non-income-producing pro-
perty; (3) dates of birth of children and whether
they were wholly maintained by the taxpayer during
the year; (4) Separate amounts of life-assurance
premiums and superannuation payments. .. .J.H.8.:
Ages of Federal Ministers: Bruce 45, Earle Page
48, Pearce 58, Latham 51, Gullett 50, Gibson 59,
Howse 64, Glasgow 52, Abbott 42, Paterson 46, Marr
48, McLachlan 56, Ogden 60. Their religions are
their own affair... .H.R.8.: (1) Apply direct
to newspaper offices. (2) Unless you show
marked ability and produce evidence of experi-
ence you will find it hard to get a
start. (3) Keep your present job and study
in spare time; pay special attention to English and
increase your stock of general knowledge. If your
work is accepted, you might establish contact with
editors which may be useful later on. .. .L.8.G.:
Information as to how many of the 3d. “kooka-
burra” stamps were issued'is not available for publi-
cation... .E.H.: Each of the professions mentioned
offers good pay and. prospects. The lad should try
to get a position in a newspaper or advertising
agent’s office and attend a school at evening. There
are several good art schools in Melbourne; for
journalism he will need to continue his general
educational studies, paying special attention to
English... .R.S.: Approach the Advances for Homes
Department, Government Savings Bank, Castlereagh-
street, Sydney... .J.G.H.: E. Wall’s “Progressive Co-
partnership,” A. William’s “Cbj-partnership and
Profit Sharing,” A. W. Burritt’s “Profit Sharing, Its
Principles and Practice,” O. Wunderlich’s “Profit
Sharing in Theory and Practice”... .L.D.L.: See the
volume on Hydrostatics in the International Library
of Technology series. The N.S.W. Public Library,
Macquarie-street, Sydney, has a copy on its shelves.
.... P.T.: Prof. Paul Steinach deals with it in his
“Rejuvenation and the Prolongation of Human
Efficiency”... .W.F.: The preparation is manufactured
by Parke, Davis and Cos., and can be obtained retail
from H. J. Falk, 218 George-street, Sydney. Price,
with postage, Bs. 2d J.L.: Thos. Carlyle was
born December 4, 1795, at Ecclefechan, a small
Scottish market town. He was the second son of
James Carlyle T.P.: (1) The 1928 Post Office
Directory gives the address of Humagsolan, Ltd., as
87 Regentrstreet, London, W.l. (2) Cannot trace
Australian agents... .J.J.: The referendum taken in
N.S.W. on June 10, 1916, related to the closing
of hotel bars; the voting was: Six o’clock, 347,494;
seven o’clock, 4830; eight o’clock, 21,134; nine
o’clock, 178,842 ; ten o’clock, 1405; eleven o’clock,
3193.... (Many others mailed.)


DUNLOP
.v.v.
!•»>>>;•
•%v
S
K:
%
tk
•V>
v.v.
x*x
Xv
•x*
x*:
.VV
x-x
•v.
A
v.v
Xv
x*:
•x*t¥
.y.
m:
Xv
&
x-x*
. *X
vxs:j:&
w
•V.
x-xvx
I
vX’X
tfxjix
•X-X-Xv
s.w
xx
55
•Ml-
-55
1
v* L o
-i
7929
»
> r t * i
nr fi
OUMUOP
4 rr r l
M
-iff/
Hi
ft
r//
The Vital Name
in the Motoring.. Gol-
f & Bowling World


SBJTEgPRESS
333
iKKIiI
sßttif
m
i
•I*
m
thuss#**
20 for 1/6
ARDATH TOBACCO
CQ, LT CL, LONDON.
IVORY
TIP-
SMOKE-OH!
Political motto of the moment: Nothing
succeeds like Recess.
¥ *
It seems absurd for barrackers to tell the
cricketers to get bags when they’re all wear-
ing sackcloth.
¥ *
Tactful verdict in outback town on well-
known identity who had hanged himself by
his braces: “Deceased met his death by
mistaking himself for his trousers.”
GET TOGETHER.
"I'm sure I’ve met you before.”
“Yes, the way you snuggle up seems familiar.”
THe ediTox. de AR fir? —i amwritin G
%his LEttter to 7 TeLl 9J DAM tho se
Figures i mean i AM writtingthis 1 Etter to
tell vOU thAt i awsT bougth a mew no!
NEW tpy tyPEw ?i hel! TYPEWRITER
fro Xmas andsoyou Won@t HaVe 6ny ANy
mor e twouble IN readdinx ky i meAn MY
stuff: themachine if In g%oop woßkin
or-der & i @m nOw fairrly porficent no
thap worngit shoobe PROFICIENT....
espexially At Making rowf of dotf. ifnt
4-i. Vi rw 4 m qqu lirnxr 1 TRlf -P Hl-PstP/lf]
of £ dam! put £ instead of s? and 1 m not
£cotch Ether!?%!!—A lillit Joek?!£
hopping YOU w-ill anyrEciate mynew aqui
no! I smear acQuisixion dam adn blash.
asQUISITION,)— yours faithfully?
MEPHKTO.
THE LAPSE INTO VERACITY.
The Editor of the Wolongobbly Times
was afflicted recently by the Spirit of Truth,
with the following results: —
Contribution: Residents of Wolongobbly
and district will hear with keen regret that
Mr. Angus Mclloot proposes to leave shortly
for the sister State, where he
has purchased a valuable pro-
perty. He will take his string
of racehorses with him. An
ornament alike to the pastoral
industry and the turf, Mr.
Mclloot carries with him the
affection and respect of all with
whom he has come in contact.
Editorial Amendment: “Gun”
Mclloot is bolting at last, hav-
ing made the place too hot to
hold him, with that final ramp
in connection with his bay geld-
ing Stiff-un. He began as a
horse-thief and still keeps his
hand in as opportunity offers.
Doolan, the pubkeeper, is the
only local citizen to whom his
flight will cause regret.
Contribution: Among the visitors at die
Royal is Mr. Hooden Broom, the eminent
barrister. Wolongobblyites will remember
his brilliant forensic efforts as a criminal
defender, more particularly in a recent cause
eelebre in which he cross-examined the
Crown’s-principal witness —a female —for no
less than four hours. Devotion to duty,
regardless of what Judges or fellow-counsel
may say about him, is Mr. Broom’s most
prominent characteristic.
Editorial Amendment: Broom has come
here with the forlorn-hope idea of collecting
some of the fees which he was mug enough
to let solicitor Rafferty owe him in con-
nection with the Bligfield matter. What he
is more likely to
collect is a thrash-
ing from the unfor-
tunate girl’s father.
However, in view of
the fact that his
client got a “lifer”
members of this
justly-incensed fam-
ily may stay their
hands. Broom is a
disgrace to the Bar,
and more than one
Judge has had the
courage to tell him
so.
Contribution: A
veritable vision of
beauty at the
Christmas meeting
of the W.R.C. was
“lovely Mrs. Reggie
Whatsit,” as she is
known in more than
one capital. Her
girlish gown of
ivory georgette,
with underslip of
crimson crgpe de
Chine, was cut in
godets at the skirt,
and the whole was
surmounted by one
of the new tulle
“garden” hats which
had “Paris” writ-
ten in every fold.
A little bird whis-
pers that beauteous
Mrs. Re g gi e is
shortly to make an-
other of her period-
ical visits to foreign
parts.
Editorial Amend-
ment: Mrs. What-
sit was at the races
dressed ridicu-
lously, as usual.
She was a fairly
good-looking girl
30-odd years ago; though even then no notice
would have been taken of her but for her
• money. She is now 54 and a hag. She is
leaving for London next month on one of
, her triennial face-lifting expeditions.
Contribution: To-day is a proud one in
L the annals of Wolongobbly,. inasmuch as it
i was announced officially this morning that
Colonel Henry Dudde, 0.8. E., one of the
district’s native sons, has been appointed to
I the new office of Trade Commissioner to
Ukooleeliland. Colonel Dudde’s war service
was of a distinguished and intrepid nature,
and in Nationalist circles his name is a
household word. Bravo, Colonel! Your
birthplace is proud of you.
Editorial Amendment: Partly by wire-
pulling and blackmail and partly by judi-
cious bribery the eldest son of old Bill
Dudde, our former Sanitary Contractor, has
managed to get that Trade job he has been
after for the past six months. He “did his
bit” at florseferry-road till the German
bombers made London dangerous. Then he
got a transference to Salisbury Plain. At
Nationalist H.Q. they regard him not only
as a pest, but as a dangerous one. Hence
the appointment. Hope runs high at Canberra
that the Ukooleeliland climate, plus his pas-
sion for the bottle, will kill him ; but there
is no telling. There is talk amongst his
WHEN HE RAN.
Magistrate (trying to find contributory
negligence) : “You say the deceased was
running all over the streetf”
Witness to Road Accident: “Yes, your
Honor. That was after the motor-bus
’ad killed Um!”
creditors here of getting- a garnishee order
against his first year’s salary.
* *
11 In your service yon faithful old clerk has
gone grey,"
The purveyor of bromides said.-
“What of that?” laughed the boss in his
cynical way,
“My typist’s gone black , blonde and red.”
¥ *
TESTY TRIFLES.
The luck of most of our star bats seems
to be “out!”
Oldfield has been performing deeds that
won the Umpire.
They sing “Cruel Britannia” now.
“Ryder took a turn in the outfield.” A
boundary Ryder.
Oddly enough it’s the English slips that
cause so many Australian falls.
¥ ¥
Shoplifters took things easy this Christ-
mas.
* ¥
Real-estate item: Even to be buried costs
a lot.
* #
“Holiday Hint —Avoid dangerous spots.”
—Melbourne Herald. And, anyhow, don’t
mix ’em.
GAGGING THE GO-GETTER.
“Morning, mum. I’m selling”
“Land.”
“The blocks can be bought on”
“Easy terms.”
“Water, gas and electricity are”
“Already there.”
“The estate is only”
“A stone’s-throw from the station.”
“The views are”
“Superb.”
“Values”
“Are increasing daily.”
“ ’Ere ! Turn it up, mum! Am I sellin’
this land, or are you?”
W. H.
* *
Lore’s like a cash-and-carry shop;
I’ve worked this out from data.
You choose a thing that looks tip-top
And settle for it later.
Doric.
* *
THE NEW BROADCASTING.
“A Sydney evangelist has secured an option over
a B-elass station, and only waits for the Government
to transfer the license to open what will be known
as the Christian Service Broadcasting Station. He
said yesterday: ‘Some people like the jazz. Very
well. Let them have it, others don’t like it. Very
well, let us see if we can’t give them programmes
more to their taste.’ S. M. Herald.
A Programme for anti-Jazzers: —
2bb —Wave Length, 333 Metres.
7.0 a.m.—Mrs. Ghool’s harmonium, Church
collection reports, hymns, talk on “Halma—
its Use and Abuse.”
10.0—Educational session. “Ananias-
Washington. Men’s Home Lives Contrasted.”
Mr. Ghool.
11.15—Baptism of infant son of Mr 1 , and
Mrs. Alfred Smithe, of Summer Hill, with
running commentary by the verger.
12.0—-Children’s hour. A chat with ex-
Alcoholic Friends. “What Beer Brought Me
To,” by a Well-known Politician. Mrs.
Gbool’s harmonium.
1.15 p.m'.—Description of Mother’s Meet-
ing, Pymble, by Rev. Asaph Heem. Croquet
tournament, Parramatta.
2.0 —Humorous Interlude. The Three
Tricks (Mrs. Ghool, Mrs. Hopley-Banister,
and Dame Mary Blobb) in Merry Organ
Obligato.
2.53 —Educational Session —“Proof of
Jonah’s Sojourn in Whale, with Daily Menu
of Both.” By an Eminent Convert from
Scepticism.
3.30 —Talk. “Why Dancing Must Die.
With Approximate Date of Decease,” by a
Retired Ballet Girl.
5.0 —Children’s hour. “Washing up the
Conscience” (Companion talk to “Vacuum
LOOKING AFTER FIDO.
Aunt Harriet: ‘‘And did you little dears
take care of darling Fido while I was
away?”
Betty': “Yes, Auntie.”
Joan: “And, gee, he can swim now, too!”
Cleaning the Soul”), by Rev. Asaph Heem.
Mrs. Ghool’s harmonium.
6.22 —Comic item, “Wig and Wag
(Dame Mary Biobb and Mrs. Hopley-Bani-
ster), in “Refined Limericks for All.”
7 0-—Collection reports, building fund re-
ports, “Halma” Test scores. Mrs. Ghool’s
harmonium. Close Down.
v Bloggs.
THE FINANCIAL LOVER.
“For instance, mathematics will, be of little use
except as an amusement, such as the calculation of
one’s income-tax.”— A. J. R. Frew, in S. M. Herald.
Let others go racing and play up their
earnings
On horses that don’t get a place;
I’d rather stay near you, and miss the
heartburnings
That people who bet have to face.
While drinkers are drinking, and diners are
dining,
And jazzers are jazzing like mad,
I want to sit by you, my eyes brightly
shining,
And study your charms, and be glad.
Unlike Omar Khayyam I pine not for wine,
nor
A bough to sit under, nor bread;
Your countless attractions, both major and
minor,
A far warmer radiance shed.
/do let’s get together, my just-arrived
treasure,
Away from the world’s stress and storm —
I, millionaire Blupton, a-hunger for pleasure,
And you, my new income-tax form.
10-2-4.
REVERSION TO GLOOM.
I could see him a block away. His face
was one vast, fatuous grin, and the view
taken of his condition by passers-by was
obviously grave. “What on earth’s wrong?’’
I inquired. The light of his count-
enance was switched off abruptly,
and his voice became -peevish. “It’s
those songs!” he explained. “Last
night I listened in and heard a
chap sing ‘Learn to Smile.’ A girl
followed with ‘Smile through the
Tears.’ I went to a
theatre afterwards and
was advised to ‘Always
Wear a Smile,’ also that
‘A Smile Will Go a Long.
Long Way,’ followed by
a few more about ‘Silver
Linings,’ ‘Smiling the
New Year In,’ and such-
like. The music shops are full of ‘Keep On
Smiling’ songs, too, and what with one thing
and another I thought there must be some-
thing in it. But it doesn’t seem to work !
He now wore a distinct scowl. “I m chuck-
ing it,” he said. “The old lugubrious stuff—
‘Daddy, Don’t Go Down the Mine, The
Poor Blind Boy,’ and so on—is more in my
line. A bloke has to be the Duchess of
York or Mary Pickford to put this smiling
business over properly!
E. M.
MAY'S LOSS.
With May’s agouising loss there departed
utterly, it seemed, her capacity to smile.
Her face, once so joyous, bore now a set
look of gloom. She, who had been the life
and soul of every party, became silent,
morose, misanthropical. Her voice no longer
rang out with the cheery laughter which had
been her visiting-card. Once so sociable, she
went out of her way to avoid meeting ols
and true friends But all that is oyer
at last, thank Heaven, a dentist having
replaced her broken front tooth.
H.S.B.


Ferrodor’s
Challenge
?9i
m
V
w
w
ago
cp
D 3
pq
p j
Ensures Perfect Protection
for
All Iron, Steel & Woodwork
As a weatherproof Paint, FERRODOR stands alone. It clings
tenaciously to the surface to which it is applied, and it will stand up to
the attacks of sun and rain, heat and cold, salt air and chemical
fumes, for many years without blistering or cracking.
Cases are on record of a coating of FERRODOR lasting 22 years,
but its average life is from 10 to 12 years. This means a great
saving of expenses in re-paintings.
FERRODOR PAINT is used by the following well-known firms
and Government Departments:—
N.S.W. Government Railways.
N.S.W. Public Works Department.
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Australian Glass Manufacturers Co., Ltd.
Sulphide Corporation, Ltd.
Silverton Tramway Co., Ltd.
Wallaroo-Mt. Lyell Fertilisers, Ltd.‘
Cresco Fertilisers, Ltd.
Mt. Lyell Chemical Co.
Cuming, Smith & Co.
Tooth & Co., Ltd.
Taronga Park Trust.
If you are interested we will gladly send you
information —no obligation, of course.
FERRODOR PAINT is packed in 20 colors in 7lh.
and tins and in 58lb. and 1-cwt. steel drums.
It is packed in paste form for greater economy,
since you only mix what you need. It is ©(/watt?/
good on iron, steel and woodwork, and is ABSO-
LUTELY NON-POISONOUS.
Eight gallons of mixed FERRODOR covers
approximately 113 square yards, at a cost of less
than 2id. per yard.
If unobtainable locally, send direct to
WILLIAM ADAMS <f COMPAIW
_______ LI M I TCP
SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, BRISBANE, MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, PERTH.
f £*Rod or
c„ , p AINT R
%£***%£ «.
, „ iH "' ltd.
• E - Bur> D . ’ v
G & SOiVs, New castl e
oeo n , ’ LTI K ’ Syd »*y
GftAcg ~ s Ojv,s -^anjy
jr n S;
. a t °ovld *■>«&«-,, ‘
' SoB^ , „ 0 ,cb *
KEep macpd'S: aS; S'2" !,a
z%/^x K ;
:°z °*°*. ■ •sg£
w «^r D - **“ ***
Robe xtson ’ LTD " K ° ganih
A. G ' SBE *CXSTob1 OW, ‘
G ■ KOBetitc
so '«o D£es so *- «*>.; *“»<■«
s »-*u,v„ '
Ms **hdy* 0S " *****
t c*^ ne y
n E D £«'«*£■« 0a -
R °ckd a ] e
r? /?L
y u
i i


Build With
WUNDERLICH
Materials
Guard against faulty work
obtain the highest value by in-
sisting on Wunderlich Building
Materials, which include: —
Art Metal Ceilings, Terra Cotta
Roofing Tiles, Asbestos Cement
(DurabestosJ Building Sheets.
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
VICHY
BMm
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic P.isk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
BRACKEN
By BERNARD CRONIN
Illustrations Jyy L GASOH
“In the seconds that Jasper stood staring spellbound at the dead body of
Hector Martin, his whole world changed.”
Synopsis : Orphaned on the day
of his birth, and taken by his mother's
sister, Ann Martin, to Musk Ridge, a
Gippslartd selection oionvd by Ann’s
husband. Hector, Jasper Leith . by the
time he is 13 hates both the bracken-
infested farm and his uncle, a heavy
drinker. His eyes are turned cityward
through a friendship with Ronald
Braid, a boy who is trying to become
an artist, and whom Jasper met at the
home of Lois Beaument, a' girl neigh-
bor. At Lois’s home also Jasper was
disgusted by the ivay he was kissed by
Cora Harris, the fleshy girl of another
neighboring family There, too, Lois’s
grandmother, a shrewish old woman,
forecasted from some remarks he had
made that Jasper would be a money-
maker later. Jasper has reached 16
and is seeking escape from his repress-
ing environment when his uncle sud-
denly dies.
CHAPTER XIII.
Jasper Takes Off His Coat.
IN the seconds that Jasper stood staring
spellbound at the dead body of Hector
Martin, his whole world changed; and
if the eight years following the death of
his uncle made small difference in
Guruwa itself, Musk Ridge underwent a
striking transformation. The drabness of
its bush origin gave place to an ordered
prosperity which was in neat contrast to
that of adjoining selections. One came
upon it suddenly, at a turn of the road,
with the quick interest aroused at discovery
of the unusual and unexpected.
In one particular only could those fam-
iliar with the early history of its one hun-
dred and fifty acres trace resemblance to
the unkempt, hopeless prospect of Jasper’s
early adolescence. The link was to be
found in a persistent appearance of
dwarfed but furiously struggling fern.
It crept overnight from the blanket of
sweet, fecund < earth in a thousand
brown and shining nodules; hiding
stealthily under the green haulms of the
potatoes and about the roots of the spring-
ing corn; thrusting its wickedness from
view amongst the rank grass of the head-
lands and the sci’ub patches along the
banks of the creek; or spreading a net of
ugly, flattened rhizomes beneath floors and
logs. On the arable lands the plough and
harrow, and on the grasslands the fern-
hook, alone held its cancerous growth in
check. The menace of it was ever present.
Jasper had. begun by clearing for the
plough some twenty acres of a black loam
creek flat. Throughout the first year of his
apprenticeship to himself he toiled as one
possessed, seeing always the vision of his
restrained boyhood’s initiative. He came
blear-eyed from his bed each morning, on
the tick of dawn, and fell asleep at even-
ing over a supper half-eaten. He became
dynamically lean in both mind and body,
eyes clouded with his thought, and his
brown forehead scored with perplexed
wrinkles. He acquired a habit of master-
ful decision, but was never impatient of
his aunt’s suggestions. He listened to her
gravely, solicitous of all that affected her
welfare.
Ann Martin, timidly concerned to adjust
herself to this new, strange phase of their
lives, watched him with mingled pride and
apprehension. She began unconsciously to
defer to him, ordering her ways to his.
In her eyes he was no longer a boy, but a
grown man armed with every virtue of
courage and resource that her husband had
lacked. As the days fled a subtle change
took place in her appearance. She re-
mained as slatternly and inarticulate as
ever, but the amazed happiness of release
show’ed itself in the quiet of her eyes and
mouth and a hundred inflections in voice
and manner. The straitness of those first
days, beset with unpaid bills and failing
credit, failed to dim her confidence in the
new order of things. She had early come
to the end of the little money that had
reached them from the sale of all but the
six cows contained in Jasper’s original
scheme. These had been deliberately dried
off and turned out to make condition To-
wards the next calving. Ann Martin was
to attend to the milking herself in the
spring and make butter for supply to the
store at Guruwa, or such private custom
as she could obtain.
In the interim, however, Musk Ridge
was entirely unproductive. The problem of
eating until such time as their credit was
re-established was solved in greater part
by recourse to what Jasper, grimly hum-
orous, described as their bush larder. He
trapped rabbits along the creek burrows,
and an odd wallaby in the lighter scrub;
or set figure-of-four snares for quail and
white cockatoos; or angled for trout and
eel in the deeper pools of the Blackbutt
Creek. Thus precariously, eked out with
tactfully insisted-upon gifts masquerading
as loans, from Hume, or Joe and Mrs.
Joe, or others of their friends, Ann Martin
and Jasper emerged to the triumph of their
first small harvest.
By the end of the third year Jasper
found need of assistance if he was to
cope with the programme now planned.
He aimed to put fifty acres under potatoes
for the- new year’s market. Ann Martin
was consulted on this head, greatly to her
delight.
“If we only could, Jasper!” she said, her
eyes watering with mild enthusiasm.
“Last summer spuds on the ground
brought £5 a ton,” Jasper calculated aloud.
“At three tons to the acre we ought to get
between £4OO and £5OO, allowing for culls
and seed.”
The vastness of this sum took his aunt’s
breath away.. She looked at him in silent
worship.
“The only thing is,” Jasper qualified,
“that nothing comes out just as you think
it will. If we get late frosts or a touch of
the Irish blight, where are we?”
Ann Martin didn’t know, and said so.
“But we didn’t get them last year,” she
added appealingly.
“Still, you’ve got to reckon that way,
you know,” said Jasper. He frowned, “I’ll
get Tod Harris to give me a hand with
the clearing. I’ve thought that part of it
all out. We can stove the stumps mostly
before the autumn. And Albert Beaument
will lend me the old disc plough.”
“Who’ll pay Tod?” his aunt asked
blankly.
“In the winter I’m going for one of the
shire road contracts,” Jasper said. “I’ll take
Tod in on that if he likes. He’ll have to
work, though.”
In a burst of unusual loquacity she said:
“Fancy £500! I can’t believe it, Jaspie.
Or only £4OO. We could buy new chairs
for the front room, and there’s the oven
with the back nearly burnt out. I could
ask them at the store for the loan of an
ironmonger’s catalogue. These one-fire
stoves”
“Hold on, Aunt,” Jasper grinned. “We
haven’t got it yet.” Seeing her face fall,
he added quickly: “But we shall. Only
we’ll have to wait a bit for all those things.
The first thing is to pay off the mortgage.
Where’s the book?”
He pored over the well-thumbed pages,
to exclaim presently: “I hate figures, don’t
you, Aunt? And money is figures; but I
don’t hate money. It’s funny.”
“We have two more payments to
make without the interest,” she
told him.
“You watch us!” said Jasper
buoyantly. He shied the little
book across the room. “I’m going
over to see Tod.”
Tod Harris made his appearance
at the beginning of the autumn.
He was now a lumpish, awkward
youth of nineteen, overgrown and
lazily inclined. At the end of the
first week he was moved to pro-
test at Jasper’s driving energy.
But after a few earnest words
from Jasper, Tod worked more
and grumbled less. The clearing
widened steadily. At the begin-
ning of the autumn a spar and
dog-leg fence was run roughly
around the area, with the brown
mare snicking the saplings into
position, Jasper, mastering his
aversion to figures, spent whole
evenings in laborious calculations.
Hume, now a frequent visitor,
helped him here. The missioner
had opened his eyes on learning of
Jasper’s aspirations. He said upon
the first occasion: “Fifty acres, Jasper?
I say, that’s a lot of potatoes, isn’t it?”
“I said I was going, to clear up fifty acres,
Mr. Hume. But I. won’t have that much
in crop. I suppose by the time you leave
out headlands and stumps and the stony
patches there won’t be more than thirty
acres in spuds.”
“Have you thought of the cartage and
all that? Don’t go and overreach your-
self.”
Jasper presented him with a maze of
pencilled sums.
“I’m not going to worry about any of
those things. I shall sell the spuds on the
land. I ought to get £4 a ton for the
growing crop without putting in a spade.
The Co-operative people will send up and
take the spuds out. And whjile that’s
doing I can take a contract at scrubbing
or picking-up.”
“Well!” said Hume. He looked at Ann
Martin, holding up plump, admiring hands.
“And they told me in Guruwa that you were
mad to think of such a large crop. Does
he ever find time to eat and sleep, Mrs.
Martin?”
“He will work,” Ann Martin said. Her
air of satisfaction made Hume’s eyes
twinkle. He was struck by her general
attitude of complacent well-being. “I
can’t stop him.”
“You’d better not try,” Jasper retorted,
laughing.
But his expression caused Hume to look
at him rather more sharply than usual.
The missioner said seriously: “It’s fine
you’re getting on so well. You deserve
every scrap of it. What’s behind it all,
though, Jasper?”
“Behind it?”
“Something else than just setting Musk
Ridge on its feet, isn’t there?”
“Guruwa isn’t the whole world,” Jasper
said, faintly coloring.
“Jasper’s set on living in the city,” Ann
Martin said, with a plaintive note. “I’d
hate that, Mr. Hume. It ain’t easy to be
poor in the city like it is here.”
“Poor?” Jasper echoed scornfully. His
color deepened. “I don’t mean to be poor.
Yes, the city for me, Mr. Hume. You
can’t make money in a place like this.”
“I thought you had that idea,” Hume
said. He seemed to sigh. “I wonder now
if you’d really like the city. You mean
you’d like to sell out from here?”
“Aunt won’t,” Jasper said, a little sul-
lenly. “We’ve talked it over. If I do well
enough in the next few years we’ve arranged
(Continued on page 49.)


riui-joia
Starter is sure and speedy
? provides full cooking heat
wo minutes or less .
The Coleman Quick Hot-Blast
%
...
"/V,
Pump is built right in the tank
—no chance of getting lost or
damaged.
Why Men iGjt
Leave Home
Coleman Camp Stove
ê
—two good reasons!
One is the rare sport of catching those wary
finny fighters. The other is cooking them right
—on the Coleman Camp Stove!
Here’s the Famous
Quick-Lite Lantern
handiest light for
campers and tourists.
Lights up the whole camp.
Brighter than 20 old style
oil lanterns. Mica globe
makes it wind-proof, rain-
proof, bug-proof. Built of
brass and other heavy
metals to stand rough
and ready use. Makes and
burns its own gas from
common motor gasoline.
More than 40 hours bril"
liant service per gallon
of fuel.
_ No. 2, the regular style Coleman (shown above) is acknowl-
edged by outdoor experts as the finest camp stove made. It is all
complete ready to bake, fry, broil; toast, roast, boil. It’s a miniature gas range
de luxe, with everything built-in. Has the original Coleman Hot-Blast Starter
that provides full cooking heat in two minutes. The Built-in Oven and Drum
Heater is fine for baking and roasting or for heating your tent or cabin in chilly
weather. Built-in Wind Baffles and Warw,ing Cabinet, Built-in Air Pump
and Funnel, Swinging Fuel Tank, Big Flame-Spreading Burners and
other improved features make Coleman the leader among all camp stoves.
Fuel is common motor gas. Folds up like a suit case.
See Them at Your Dealer *s. Ask him to show you Coleman Camp Stoves and
the Quick-Lite Lantern. If he is not yet supplied, write us and we Will see that
you receive descriptive literature and are taken care of promptly .
Coleman Comp Stove, complete with Oven
Coleman Camp Stove, complete with Oven and collapsible Stand
•84/-
102/6
KMZyinstant Lighting
Coleman Iron
The Iron with the
Cool Blue Handle"
PATENTS PENDING
Price,
45/-
Does an average week’s
ironing for one penny —
guaranteed perfectly safe.
You’ll like the way this new
petrol iron lights ....
instantly. Just strike a
match, turn a valve. . . .and
it’s going! No more preheat -
ing... .no more generating
with methylated spirit.
Lights Instantly—No Preheating
Coleman Quick-Lite Co. of Australia
185 William Street, Melbourne, Cl, Victoria.
718 Harris Street, Ultimo, Sydney, N.S.W.
31 Bower Building, Charles Street, Adelaide, S.A.


Banking, Public Companies, etc,
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,369,965
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18,623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. H!. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER; C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by I 86 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. •• £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. •• 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares . . 616,210
Ordinary Shares .. .. • • 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,525
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji, ’ Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUiH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Authorised Capital .. .. ..£2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. 1,250,000
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000'
Reserve Fund ..' .. .. 970,000
£2,220,000
Reserve liability of shareholder's .. 1,260,000
£3,470,000
Also 115 Branches and Agencies in South Australia,
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America ahd elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
** should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of' Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
South Australia’s Brightest Daily.
ë
ē
master
Since 1836.
Young in Thought.
Quick in Action.
Delivered by Aeroplane to Various
Country Centres.
Broadcast Your Advertising
Message throughout the
Great Central State
in
THE REGISTER,
which is read by all classes,
Proprietors:
W. K. THOMAS & CO., Adelaide.
ERIC N. BIRKS, N.S.W. Representative.
Telephone X. 5187.
0. N. BEDNALL, Argus Building, Melbourne.
Shipping, etc.
An Unexcelled Chain of Ports
PICTURESQUE Auckland, favorite sea-
port of Northern New Zealand; spam-
ling Suva, glowing like a jewel in its setting
of tropical beauty; far-famed Honolulu,
where travellers bask in an endless summer
and a thousand novel sights; such is the
route from Sydney to Vancouver of Can-
adian-Australasian Liners.
c.J'rto,'
iX
-
Comfort at Sea
Broad white decks, comfort-
able lounges, well-equipped
cabins, and an ever-appetis-
ing menu combine to make
sea travel by the palatial
Niagara or Aorangi a de-
lightful holiday trip.
Particulars from■
UNION STEAM SHIP
COMPANY,
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne, Cl.
S.S. NIAGARA & AORANGI
mm
m
m
m
mm
i
m
*
irrz' —ar
Attractive Trips of jrom 2 to 7 weeks.
Magnificent Scenery, Luxuriant Tropical Vegetation
and Quaint Surroundings.
Make a selection and book early for a most interesting
Holiday.
SOUTH SEA ISLAND CRUISES
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island, Norfolk Island and New Hebrides
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
(“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly Sailings from Melbourne and Sydney
v by the “MARELLA” (7500 tons) and
“MALABAR” (5000 tons).
BURNS, PHILP# COMPANY LIP.
SYDNEY AND BRANCH OFFICES
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,075,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,553,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN ( Chairman) ; Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES,
M.L.C.; Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
ĕ
FOE BRISBANE, MACRAY, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outports).
ė
GO NOW TO
HAWAII
HONOLULU
The Holiday land of the Pacific.
This Pacific Island Play land is yours—but 13
days away—beautiful islands set in azure seas
-—offering you the holiday of your life this
Summer.
Will you take it?
First-class fare for the round-trip from £7s—
£55 —cheap indeed for such a
trip. Hotel Expenses (run on the very best
First-class American lines) are as low as 12/-
to £3 per day, with meals.
Fullest particulars from all travel' and steam-
ship company offices —or from this office direct.
HAWAII TOURIST BUREAU,
Dept. 26. Box 162788, G.P.O. Sydney.
COME TO
Hawaii —Honolulu
and have the holiday of your life.
BRISBANE.via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday eveniag;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £ 3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerLiM
Mag'iilfioent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDAItT PARKER LIMITED,
CoillnsStreet, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE - 3d.
It deals V ith every subject of
interest to women.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Established 1819.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .
RESERVE LIABILITY
ę
£7,500,000
6,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; W. E. Southerden, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—George Street. Sydney London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
536 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
COOL OFF IN TASMANIA
A FORTNIGHT’S HOLIDAY IN TASMANIA
Including Fares, Accommodation, Local Sight-Seeing, etc., from
£24/1/-
XMAS SAILINGS TO HOBART
T.S.S. ZEALANDIA (7000 tons), DECEMBER 19 and 24,
JANUARY 2 and 9.
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
OCEAN HOUSE, 34 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.


LYMAN
ě
SIGHTS
for practically
every gun made
w
The Lyman principle of aperture sighting brings
the rear sight close to the eye. You can aim and
fire instantly, always keeping the object sighted
in full vjew. A great aid to accuracy. Send 6d.
for Sight Catalog and Chart, which tells correct
sights for your gun. Used by shooters for over
40 years. Free Folder.
No. 42 Receiver Sight for
Sav,age 19, 22, 23A, 238,
23C, B.S.A. No. 2 and
W.O. Model, Winchester
56 and Mauser 22cal.
Price 22/6 each.
No. 26.
No. 26 Front Sight
with Ivory or Gold
Bead. Price—
Ivory, 5/6 each.
Gold 8/6 each.
ŵ
No. 10 Shotgun
Sight.
ẁ
ẃ
No. 10 Ivory Shotgun Sight. Pre-
vents under shooting and cross firing.
Price complete with Reamer, 7/6 each
No. 2 A
Comb.
Rear Sight
with
Disc. Built in, turn down
peep. Pat. thumb lock,
Price 22/6 each.
ẅ
w
ŵ
BY APPOINTMENT
THINK
before you drink
there is only one best
and it is Gordon’s
The name “GORDON” guarantees the very
highest standard of quality and absolute
purity; a reputation enjoyed and jealously
guarded for over 150 years.
Gordon’s Gin is produced in London,
England, by the original process of distilla-
tion from the original recipe, the secrets of
which belong to the HOUSE of GORDON
and have been handed down through genera-
tions ! It is for this reason Gordon’s Gin has
the largest sale at Home and throughout the
World, having no rival for Purity or
Quality.
guaranteed distilled in London , England •
The
gin
Largest Gin Distillers
in the World
WHITEST
PUREST
& BEST
N ID AH a
r2J
The Heart
of a good
C ocktail
Obtainable
Everywhere
Pen and Picture
Shadow Shows
To those who
subscribe regu-
larly to the
mov i e maga-
zin e s, hang
their walls with
photos of the
stars, and dis-
cuss in detail
all the lovely love passages—in short, to all
girls of 15 or so “Show Girl” (First
National) is of tremendous import. It in-
troduces a new face to the gallery—a blonde,
one Alice White, who, in the elegant lan-
guage of the sub-titles, has a chassis as well
as a face. The chassis is the most important
part of the lady. As a star, she suffers
chiefly from the defect of never forgetting
that she is an actress. She doesn’t eat—
she acts eating. Ditto smile, ditto talk,
ditto everything. The picture that ushers
her in is merely moderate—a story of a girl
who, against the faint bitter opposition of
her mother, gets on to the stage, and be-
comes a top-liner through being partly kid-
napped by a male dancer'. A young reporter
from the Tabloid, and, incidentally, her lover,
concludes the kidnapping by taking her to a
flat and keeping her there, while his paper
runs wild stories about her, and then gets
the scoop of finding her. Which is not bril-
liantly original. There is an attempt to whip
up emotion by making her the adored of her
manager and sending the reporter laddie
away in a huff, but it’s a very pallid effort,
a,bout as dramatic as fried opions. This
examiner looks forward, not without misgiv-
ings, to seeing Alice in something stronger.
Paramount, the makers of “Forgotten
Faces,” can always be relied on for sound
photography, and now and then they com-
OLGA BAGLANOVA, of
“Forgotten Faces.”
bine with it
good acting or
a good story.
It is rare, how-
ever, that any
of the movie-
makers com-
bine all three
as they are
combined in
this picture.
The story con-
cerns a gentle-
man crook
who finds a
good reason
for hating his
wife and gives
her a better
one for hating
him, but who
p a s s ionately
loves the
daughter he
left on a
wealthy door-
step. It takes
hold of in-
terest at the beginning, and continues to grip
on a steadily. tightening scale to the end,
a fair dramatic peak. The crook’s fondness
for heliotrope, and the manner in which he
uses that flower and its scent to get even
with his vicious wife, provides a theme or
motif—an artistic inlay as rare in what is
called “movie art” as Easter daisies at
Christmas!. But, though all this is really
good, above it towers the acting of Clive
Brook and Olga Baclanova. Brook acts
convincingly through every second that he is
before the camera; by turn crook, prisoner
and butler lie fits his parts to a degree
always close to perfection. In the Russian
lady lies something very like the ideal screen
villainess. She is not a woman playing a
part-—she is the part. In short, they are a
brilliant and polished pair of artists matched
with a story that is almost worthy of their
ability.
Though the results achieved are rather
depressing, work much above middling in
every respect has gone to the making of “The
Crowd” (Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer), a fine, re-
lentless piece of realism set in New York.
Its defect is that it is based on the common-
place. The John Sims who sets out opti-
mistically to conquer New York can be met
in thousands in any city; so can his wife,
his relations and his sordid career. His
wooing, his marriage, his honeymoon belong
identically to 999 people in every 10001 It
is all drift. His home is ditto, and so is
his so-called fight to lift himself above the
teeming crowd. The death of his little
daughter, his leaving of his job, his contem-
plated suicide are all commonplace things.
Even more so is the manner in which he
finds the necessary new breath of courage—
from his son, who with that lack of powers of
observation common to the young (in
spite of the old woman fallacy to the con-
trary), confides that he wants to be like his
dad when he grows up. Then the fresh start,
the kicking out of the wife’s relations, and
at last a slight rise above the herd. Except
that the many do not achieve that slight
rise, it is all just average, and what is aver-
age is seldom interesting. Its effect is deaden-
ing, simply because so many people are
average, and because they all seek escape.
Truth, actuality is to them a wet blanket;
it is the remarkable, the extraordinary, the
unusual that entertains, and this, of course,,
is somewhat supplied in the closing happi-
ness. Apart from that defect, the story,
if commonplace, is sound and well told,
and the photography would lift even a weak
story out of the ruck. New York, Niagara
and a few other incidental spectacles come to'
life in th e picture. The settings fascinate
even though the weight of the wet blanket
may be pressing down. The acting, too. is
fine. James Murray, as the young man, and
Eleanor Boardman, as the girl, are excellently
cast, and the picture altogether is true.
“A Farmer’s Daughter” (Fox) is a per-
fectly innocuous story about nothing. Its
most original feature is a fight between the
farmer’s daughter and her beau in an
orchard, which grows rubber oranges speci-
ally for them to fight with. The beau, who
obviously has about enough intelligence to
set fire to a powder house and sit on it, in-
vents an intricate machine for wrapping
cheese. Then there arrive on the farm a
confidence chappie and a fellow he has picked
up along the road, and the confidence person
fathers a scheme for floating the cheese
wrapper as a company. But the fellow he
has picked up is the son of a cheese magnate,
and he induces his father to arrive in the
midst of the swindling of the yokels, etc.
In spite of all this, the thing is crudely
funny, and that’s all it’s meant to be;
The Palette
It seems that in drawing for advertise-
ment the first thing is not to study funda-
mentals but to get results. Some of the
results on view at the show of commercial
art at the Queen’s Hall, Melbourne, are re-
markable in the extreme. The work of the
advanced students looks better, though most
of that has that cold air of efficiency which
comes from much studying of American maga-
zines. R. Thompson’s “Weed Chains” bears
(he stamp of originality, and Vern Ilayles and
William Brock have two excellent posters
aimed at inducing motorists to use Mr.
Clapp’s electric trains.
Three distinguished portraits by Count
Tamburini, the Papal painter, are interesting
exhibits at the Sedon Galleries, Melbourne.
“Archbishop Mannix” is a speaking likeness
of the prelate in a mood between shadow and
shine; the gorgeous vestments are boldly
contrasted with a background of sober. grey.
“Mrs. Septimus Miller” is an admirable
character-study of a lively feminine intelli-
gence, though the high light in the eyes
gives an uncanny effect which scarcely
seems real. “Biddy Tallis” is a glittering
pastel picture of an entrancing-looking girl
placed against a disturbing background,
which does not allow the subtleties of the
face to be as comfortably studied as in the
Mannix work. The discriminating observer
can take great pleasure in these three accom-
plished pictures without indulging in un-
necessary and disparaging comparisons with
the work of Australian portrait painters.
They belong to different schools.
“El V.”: The British G.P.O. announces
that letters to the editor intended for publi-
cation may be sent at printed-paper rates
(one halfpenny for two ounces) provided
the words “Manuscript for Press” are writ-
ten in the top left-hand corner of the enve-
lope. “Father of Ten” should earn a new
lease of life from that little bit of encourage-
ment. But don’t try it on in Australia, or
there’ll be curses when the bill for deficient
postage drops in.
DR. CUNNINGHAM, the retiring Editor of
the Argus, as Low saw him.
Melbourne Sun-Pic., with a circulation of
172,000-odd, is leading its fellow morning-
papers, the Argus and Age, by several
lengths, and is seriously challenging its stable
companion, the Evening Herald.
The Inky Way
THE PERFECT NEWSPAPER.
“An issue of the newspaper Popolo d’ Italia
has been confiscated because it published lurid details
of crimes contrary to the rules of the Fascist regime,
that forbids the publication of morbid details.”
No more
Of gore
In Mussolini’s papers;
No flood
Of blood;
No horrors for the gapers.
No time
For crime,
No stories sad and sordid;
No boom
Of gloom
To suicides accorded.
No fuss;
It’s thus
That Mussolini teaches
How he
Must be
The one who makes the speeches.
No breath
Of death;
No mention of the ’tecs—-
The spot
Is not
In Italy marked “X”!
N.S.W.
A. H. A.


m
V
m
1,1
m
m
m
» C 'X
%
#
i
8®
'/. %
l
1
* '.
%
V, >.
'/. s
%
',. < 'x
X. ;
E
HE distinction of the MILLS Hat
will win your approval on sight.
The name MILLS rises supreme
in the realm of fashion. It is a
guarantee of quality, of perfect style, ex-
quisite craftsmanship, and, above all, of
durability. Through all weathers, in every
season, the MILLS retains its shape and
smartness.
Hat tin
at suits Ljourlersonaiity
litu
Ml
Obtainable at all the
leading Men’s Stores
A PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT HATS PTY. LTD-


REPAIRS.
“Our Hands Make Good Arms”
Firearms sent C.O.D.
ẃ
Made to Kill with Skill.
SUPER ACCURATE 22-CAL.
REPEATING RIFLES.
Mauser Model 2, bolt action, 25in. barrel,
5-shot magazine £6/5/-
SAYAGE SPORTER, bolt action, 24in. barrel,
5-shot magazine, £4/12/6. (Postage, 2/6.)
WINCHESTER models 56 and 57, 22in. barrel,
5-shot magazine, £5 and £6/12/6.
The Wonderful WALTHER 22-CAL RIFLE.
Automatic, 5-shot magazine, 24in. barrel.
Price, £6/12/6.
Write for Price List.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
1438 Elizabeth Street, Sydney (near
Market Street).
(Late 110 Bathurst Street.)
ẅ
w
Stanley
Unbreakable
Vacuum Flask
Made entirely of steel
and lined with blue
amalite. Guaranteed to
keep liquids boiling hot
for 18 hours, and icy
cold for 36 hours. Ab-
solutely unbreakable.
Ideal for travelling.
QUART
SIZE
57/6
2 Quart Size - 75/-
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street, ‘Brisbane,
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Fondant’s form since the Metropolitan
supports the impression that if he had got
away with his customary smartness in that
race he would have made things very inter-
esting for Jocelyn with his light weight—6st.
91b. At the A.J.C. Summer meeting he
very nearly won the Holiday Handicap and
Summer Cup double, as Vitality did last
year. At the good price of 7 to 1 for the Cup
(Bacchus, his stable-companion, was favor-
ite), the Cyllene More gelding made all the
running, and when tackled by Donald (5 to
1) gallantly contested every yard, though
tired. Many thought it a dead-heat, but the
judge declared for Donald by a “short” head;
Resource was a middling third, the time being
2min. 46see. The opinion was freely ex-
pressed that Kelso’s game galloper would go
one better in Tatt.’s Cup on New Year’s
Day, with only lib. more.
This Page’s notion that Whitta was
back to her best form was borne out in the
Chisholm Handicap, which the excitable little
mare won brilliantly from Greenline and
Golden Voice, doing the six furlongs in lmin.
lllsec. The heavy backing of Remora and
Newsore, neither of which was prominent
during the race, enabled followers of Price’s*
successful stable to get 6 to 1 about the
daughter of Burrabadeen. though fives was
the closing quote. Second and third were at
long prices.
* * * H:
Whitta’s jockey, McCarten, drew No. 14
marble in the Carrington Stakes on Satur-
day, and that did not help the little mare.
She made a brave attempt to overcome this
disadvantage, and beat everything bar Green-
line, who put up a sterling performance by
carrying 9st. 131 b. to victory and running
every furlong in 12sec. Pike rode him splen-
didly. Greenline was favorite at threes;
Whitta was a point longer and Karuma,
again a fast-finishing third, 5 to 1.
For the second day of the meeting:—
New Ye’ar’s Gift: Cave Dweller; next
Beckwith.
Novice Handicap: Dolomite; next,
Flinders.
Tatt.’s Club Cup: Leadight, 1; Fondant,
2; Honan, 3.
Flying Welter: Black Douglas; next,
Habashon.
Alfred Hill Handicap: Lovebox; next,
Lady Constance.
* * * *
At the last Easter sales in Sydney a colt
by Saltash —Weltea brought 6750 guineas,
another by Magpie—-Charleville fetched 4000
guineas, and three others, also by imported
sires, topiied the 2000-guinea mark. So far
these expensive young animals are unknown
quantities on the turf, and not one of them
may ever get beyond the “Novice Handicap
class. Meantime youngsters that were
knocked down cheap because they are the
progeny of despised Australian thoroughbreds
are winning richly-endowed races. Far and
away the smartest N.S.W. two-year-old of
the season is Holdfast, whom J. H. Gains-
ford bought for Frank Gahan, the Randwick
bookmaker, for 160 guineas, and who won
the A.J.C. December Stakes with his mouth
open, thereby increasing liis earnings to
£3460. By Wedge—Lystrim, a Cooltrim mare,
this brown gelding may not be bred to stay,
but he seems destined for a brilliant career
in races up to a mile. On the same day
Three Stripes, a thing by Thrice-Red Stripe,
ran away with the Karrakatta Plate, the
handsomest two-year race in Westralia. In
contradistinction to Holdfast, who was an
odds-on favorite, Three Stripes was at 20
to I—that is. in the ring. On the grandstand
tote the dividend was £lB Is. for 10s. And
there were only seven starters!
* $ * *
It is a pity Eurythmic died so early in his
career at the stud. With time and oppor-
tunity he might have left offspring as good
as himself; as it was he sired one very smart
galloper in Harry Gavin. Though a bit in-
and-out, Harry can go like the wind when
in the mood, and he left no doubt as to his
superiority to his opponents at the weights
in the Christmas Handicap at Caulfield on
Boxing Day; Attraction and Quirk were
placed, but they couldn’t get near him at
the finish. Eurythmic’s son went out at
12 to 1.
Red Sea (10 to 1) got home in the Hope-
toun Handicap from Tookarby and Madom,
but Tookarby’s finish suggested that he would
turn the tables in the Bagot Handicap at
Flemington on Tuesday.
CRICKET ITEM.
“So dangerous did he appear that it seemed,
unlikely that either of the pair would
survive the period before lunch.”
Another Australian-bred sire was in the
ascendant on the first day of the Port Adel-
aide Club’s Cup meeting at Cheltenham,
where Greenstead’s son Greensborough gave
a dashing exhibition of speed in the Christ-
mas Handicap. He romped in from a large
field, second and third places going to stable-
companions Adoradale and Keen Edge (M.
L. Arnold owns both) ; the distance, 6? fur-
longs, was traversed in lmin. A. R.
Adams rode Greensborough, who is trained
by Brodie for Lewis and Walter. The Cup
resulted in a victory for little Some Quality,
a great pet of the Adelaide public, who
fairly outstayed a large field, which included
Epilogue, Dartmoor, Kentle and Serbury
from other States, and of which Ividaides and
Tirailleur did best other than the winner.
Some Quality is trained by W. J. Nolan
for Pelham and Cummins, and was ridden
by Elliott; she is by Ethiopian—Sessa, dam
of Caserta, a good three-year-old in his
year. Her time was 3min. 6sec., the dis-
tance being 14 furlongs and 64 yards; her
tote div. (£1 machine) was £5 75.; Greens-
borough’s was £4 18s.
The club hung up £lOOO for the Christmas
Handicap and £4500 for the Cup, in additioji
to Sidney Kidman’s £lOO trophy. These
prizes—far and away the best given by a
suburban club in Australia —are made pos-
sible by the totalisator.
❖ * * *
“Odds On”: What would Isaac McSquee-
zem say to a punter who demanded a little
better than 5 to 1 about the favorite for an
unimportant sprint, with a concession of a
trifle more than even money in the event of
its running second? And, supposing Ike
were still articulate, how would he express
himself to another client who desired to sup-
port a “roughie” at 1350 to 1, with a con-
tingency of 450 to 1 for second place? These
were among the prices offered by the totalisa-
tor on the last race at Adelaide Tatt.’s meet-
ing (15/12/’2B). Yet South Aus. racegoers
are yelling (possibly with a slightly Yiddish
accent), “Give us back the bookies!”
H= H= * *
“T.S.”: St. Anton, a sire that has made
a big mark on S.A. bloodstock lately, is not
to leave the State. Aldridge and Cudmore,
moving their Richmond Park stud to Vic-
toria, will not need him in competition with
Manfred, Whittier and co., and have sold
him to N. W. Gunn, who is building up a
stud at Nilkerloo, near Port Lincoln.
* * * *
“Taipo” : It was at a King Country (M.L.)
race meeting, and Ilenare’s prad had just
finished last in a field of 20. Said a sym-
pathising pakeha, “That’s a pretty crook
moke you got there, Henare.” The indignant
owner came back, “He tc crook! Py corry
it take it te nineteeni orra horse to beat
him.”
* * * *
“Minto”: In an obscure corner of the
Leger bookmaker Isaacs was -calling the odds.
“I’ll bet on the first raith,” he hollered;
“eaffens ther field.” “What price Dough-
boy?” questioned a punter. “Eaffens,” said
Isaacs, with outstretched hand. “I see,”
said the punter; “he’s favorite, eh? Well,
what price are you betting Firefly?” “He’s
eaffens, too,” said Isaacs; “there’s only
eight runners.” “H’m,” said the punter,
“I’ll try you again. What price Nasty Dan?”
“Sigs to four,” said Isaacs; and the punter
produced ss. “It’s a sure mizere,”* he said,
“and I’ll go a dollar with you. An even
dollar you don’t take a flamin’ trick.”
The Ins and Outs
A continent sighed in satisfaction when
Ryder won the toss for the third Test match
on Saturday, and sent Woodfull and Vie.
Richardson to bat in fine weather. A little
later it cursed silently, for both men were
out with 15 on the board —Richardson caught
by Duckworth off Larwood for 3, and Wood-
full snapped up by Jardine off Tate for 7.
When Hendry went for 23, caught by Geary
off Larwood, it pulled its hat down and
threw away its cigarette. That made 3 for
57; Ivippax 23 n.o. The Melbourne wicket
had played tricks before lunch once more.
Kippax, however, was brilliant after lunch
and hope revived when he reached his half-
century with the score 3 for 114, Ryder
being 24.
* * * *
The second Test in Sydney broke all prev-
ious records for attendances and takings at
the Sydney Cricket Ground, beating thos6
for the first Test of Gilligan’s tour. Then
the attendances totalled 103,000 and the
takings were £16,205. This time 168,000
were run through the crush, and the cash
extracted came to £17,128.
* * Sic =!=
“Main Chance”: The inadequacy of the
accommodation, even in the grandstands, at
Sydney Cricket Ground during the second
Test was rubbed in by the roaring trade in
boxes and petrol-tins to stand upon which
was carried on by hordes of small boys.
There were no fixed prices; just what the
client looked mug enough to give. No one,
however, seems to have tried the brilliant
scheme worked by the Brisbane kids at the
League football Test last season. These, in
addition to the rent, demanded a deposit on
each box, to be returned when the lessor re-
covered his property after the match. In
every case, the lessee was left the option of
cutting his loss or retaining the box or tin
as his own property in satisfaction for the
cash that failed to come back.
He He eje He
“Shrewsbury”: The habit indulged in by
the English wicket-keeper Duckworth of
appealing on all possible and impossible occa-
sions is irritating to batsmen and spectators
alike, and the latter have not been slow to
show their disapproval. It was a common
trick with the professional ’keepers of Eng-
land a generation or so ago, till county cap-
tains and committees suppressed it. Storer,
here with Stoddart in 1897-98, was notorious
for this funny business. Australian ’keepers
have not been blameless, either. One man
still playing in big cricket affects the prac-
tice, and adds to it the unsportsmanlike trick
of keeping up a running commentary on the
play for the batsman’s benefit or otherwise.
* He :|= >K
“W. G. Snort”: Clem Hill, who as an
amateur cricket reporter has proved him-
self quite as much out in his judgments as
any of his eminent conffemporaries—and
that is saying something—has announced it
as probable that the Englishmen will pro-
test if Australia attempts to play R. 11.
Bettington or Arthur Richardson. The
statement is a reflection on their sanity.
Both men are eligible, according to rule
and precedent. The birth qualification
applies in the first instance; the case of
W. E. Midwinter in the second. Midwinter,
English-born, went with the first Australian
XI to England in 1878. He remained there
and played against his former comrades until
he returned to Australia with Alfred Shaw’s
team in 1881-82. Returning to England with
the Australian team of 1884, he again took
part in their matches. Finally, he seems
to have settled down in the land of his birth.
He has thus played for both countries.
Neither Betting-ton nor Richardson has
figured in an English eleven.
* ■ H= H* Hi
“Amateur Pro”: Cricket writers for the
daily press continue their lamentations over
the inadequacy of the cash payments made
to Australia’s amateur cricketers, and it is
impossible to search the journals for the
acceptances at Robbery Park without being-
upset by demands that the rates be raised
to anything up to ten times the present
amount. So far, no one has suggested that
the matter be taken up by the Federal Govern-
ment and another new department added
to the ever-growing list. M. A. Noble, for
instance, might be appointed Minister for
Test matches, with a large staff of actual
and prospective Test-match players at high
salaries, and power to add to their number.
True, there would be nothing for them
to do when Test cricket was in abeyance,
but their leisure would in no way distin-
guish them from the rest of the service.
“Aigburth”; The breakdown of the over-
bowled Jack Gregory has drawn some cut-
ting comment from Loudon Evening Stan-
dard in connection with the craze for cod-
dling the batsmen and ignoring the bowler’s
side of the question. Australian bowlers
have “been slaughtered to make a holiday for
Ponsford.” Also, McDonald was “forced
to take refuge in the less murderous atmo-
sphere of England,” while “Gregory lost his
sting long before he should.” All of which
is regrettably true, and shows Australian cric-
ket authorities and captains up in an unen-
viable light. Compare the manner in which
Gregory was bowled all day long against the
Englishmen in Sydney and Brisbane with
Chapman’s method of utilising Larwood “in
short bursts,” as the machine-gunners say.
(Continued on, page 37.)
THE GROUTER BET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We were playing by Crucifix Corner, where
the wooden Christ hangs on the cross;
The centre was set, the side-bets on, and
Mick was all ready to toss,
When the nark of a sergeant yelled, “Fall
in. Hey, double up, you chaps down
there!”
“Up and do ’em!” the ringkeeper shouted,
and Mick sent them up in the air.
I was bettin’ a dollar he’d tail them; I
mostly bet heads, but when Mick
Got into the centre to fly them I’d twist on
to tails double quick.
And Mick was a sore man about it, though
he knew it was not done for spite.
And it proved I was showin’ good judgment
when the ringkeeper said, “Nix are
right!”
We were playin’ the game out past Hamel;
old Fritzie was doin’ a trot.
And Mick said: “He’s makin’ it willin'; us
blokes must be gettin’ the lot.
I hope it ain’t me that he’s after. I’ll bet
you a dollar, and then
You might—there is never no tellin’ —get in
on the grouter again.”
I cursed all the gods men had fashioned
when Mick said to me with a grin,
As I fumbled to get his field dressing, “You
lucky old blankard, you win.”
And I wondered, and still do I wonder, wliat
He thought of my win—and my loss—
As I came back by Crucifix Corner, where
the wooden Christ swings on the cross.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


V/f"
■
*
o
&§*
EAUDE COLOGNE
' ■
S¥i
mm
MQtmmstmm
KOLN*/*t
&
Do you want
to be like her—
well - groomed, modern, and
beautiful ? Then you should
never be without your bottle
of (genuine) “4711” Eau de
Cologne, whose fragrant breath
keeps ever young the charms
of beautiful Eve, ever constant
her vitality, loveliness and grace.
Only genuine with the numer-
als “4711” on the Blue and
Gold Label. Since 1792 the
standard of excel-
lence—the unrival-
led commodity of an
original recipe.
Obtainable from all leading chemists
and departmental stores.
mu
ologne


nta
Mku
mil
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
ŵ
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station .
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
The APEX Whip Makes a Fine Present
ẁ
THE
APEX
WHIP
78/6
A BEAUTIFUL EXAMPLE OF
AUSTRALIAN WORKMANSHIP
The Two-color Swastika Design is
carried out on both handle and thong,
making a very artistic piece of work.
The thong is Bft. long, 20-plait with life-
like fall. Price 78/6
For 2/6 extra we will plait up to four
initials in the handle.
The “Gainsborough” Stockwhip is an
excellent piece of work with a 40-plait
handle with flower plait knob—quite
unique and 6ft. 24-plait thong. Just
the present for a manager. Price, 82/-
K’BURRA STOCKWHIPS
FOR EVERYDAY HARD WEAR
Kangaroo right through with inside
plaited belly.
Thongs. Cft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft.
12-plait 18/6 21/- 23/6 27/6
16-plait 21/6 24/6 27/6 31/6
20-plait 26/6 30/- 33/6 38/6
HANDLES TO MATCH: 17/-, 19/- and 22/- each.
WHIPS SENT POST FREE FOR CASH.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ELEY AND KYNOCH
Wonderful Patterns do not necessarily mean
good cartridges. Pressure, Velocity, etc.,
are equally essential.
ELEY & KYNOCH
ALL-BRITISH CARTRIDGES
give the perfect combination.
Scientific Loading and
Testing ensure this.
ẃ
284
NOBEL:
&
M
n.
ar
&
'VV
Peck’s
Ho tAe,
kiddies Ukt ttl
Just try them ! Give them Ancho-
vette sandwiches for their school
lunch and see their eyes sparkle ! ,
It’s good for them, too, and so little
trouble to prepare. Get a jar from your
grocer to-day.
ANCHOVETTE
The delicious Fish Paste
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
THE CHRISTMAS ISSUE OF
“THE QUEENSLANDER”
(DATED DECEMBER 6, 1928)
Queensland’s Popular and Brightly Illustrated Weekly,
is the Largest and Most Attractive Christmas Number ever published, contain-
ing Pictures in Colors and a big collection of illustrated Stories, Special
Articles, etc. The usual weekly features are retained, making it A TYPICAL
QUEENSLAND PRODUCTION.
A Beautiful Colored Supplement, entitled “A PASTORAL SCENE,” is Pre-
sented FREE with each copy. This picture is splendidly reproduced on Heavy
Art Paper, and should be extremely popular.
PRICE 1/-
including
Supplement
Obtainable from, any of the following N./S.IE. Agents: —
Gordon and Gotch (Aust.),"'Ltd., Barrack and Clarence Streets; N.S.W. Bookstall Co., George
Street and Central Railway Station; Uneeda News Agency, Bond Street; Swains, Ltd., Pitt Street;
Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
PUBLISHED BY THE
BRISBANE NEWSPAPER COMPANY, LIMITED,
“Courier” Building, Queen Street, Brisbane.
Also Publishers of the ‘‘Brisbane Courier” and “Sports Referee.”
The Ins and Outs
Newcastle did well to head the Englishmen
by 60 runs on the first innings, thanks to
fine batting by Osland (76), Henderson
(60) and Bettington (53). And Bettington
tied up the visitors, ending with 4 wickets
for 96, after four easy catches had been
dropped off his bowling, while he caught
three men in the slips.
* * * *
Queensland lost its third Sheffield match
of the season in Adelaide, South Australia
winning by 4 wickets. A fine stand by
Victor Richardson (315) and Harris (183)
was followed by a level century from Hack.
On that foundation 582 was built up.
Queensland reached 296 in reply, fast-
bowler Wall taking 5 for 92. Gough scored
a vigorous 95 for the Northerners. Follow-
ing on, the visitors compiled 416, the country
colt McCombe, who had made -51 at the
first attempt, reaching 112, a great perform-
ance for a newcomer. Williams, 4 for 145,
came out with the best bowling figures.
South Australia lost 6 wickets to get the
necessary runs to win, Benstead (4 for 28)
doing the damage.
* * * *
The Sheffield match between N.S.W. and
Victoria in Melbourne saw the Welshmen
win by 44 runs on the first innings. The
match was remarkable for a record last-wic-
ket stand of 307 by Kippax and Hooker.
Nine were down for 113, but the tenth wicket
did not fall until 420, Kippax being 260 n.o.
and Hooker 61. Making 376 in their first
innings, Victoria declared in the second and
set the Welshmen 207 to get. They lost
two for 156 (Bradman 71 n. 0.), when time
ended the game. Other notable batting per-
formances were a dashing 175 by Ryder, and
113 and 95 by a’Beckett. None of the
bowlers were outstanding.
❖ ❖ H*
“Nobby’s”: An interesting item in the
match between England and Newcastle was
the inclusion in the Coal City’s team of
W. Moy. who appeared as one of the New-
castle side against P. F. Warner’s first team
of 1903-04. It is not often, even in Test
cricket, that a player keeps his place in an
eleven 25 years after his first selection. The
veteran was going w r ell, too, when he was
run out at 18.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Further examination of Pons-
ford’s broken hand after he returned to Mel-
bourne indicated that the injury was more
severe than was supposed. He will not be
available for the Australian team until the
last Test in Melbourne early in March.
Though a minor calamity, the affair has its
cheering aspects. It will leave an extra
HANS EBELING, whose fast-medium
howling against Queensland and N.S.W.
for Victoria has brought him into the
ranks of Test-match possibilities.
niche to be utilised in giving some of the
promising young aspirants to Test-match
selection a chance they might otherwise have
missed. That is supposing that the selec-
tors grasp their opportunity and do not go
on giving them further misses.
* # * • *
“Smada”: Watching the Test at Sydney
Cricket Ground, I recalled an even more
ancient meeting at famous Lords ’twixt Eton
and Harrow. There were none of the con-
veniences we know. There was certainly a
scoring board, which could be seen by many
of the spectators, but batsmen and bowlers
were designated only by numbers; it was
necessary to purchase at intervals a printed
key from certain ancient persons who had
the privilege of selling these. I was surprised .
when, having picked a place where I could
see something of the game, I found a four-
in-hand coach up in front of me. I
discovered that there was a long row of
these blocking the view. It is one of the
immemorial privileges at these matches.
Pretty girls climbed on top of coaches, and
had their picnic teas. Their troubles about
the game!
* * * *
“Hamer”: Amongst suggestions for the
improvement of cricket in N.S.W. is the
fixation of an age-limit in grade teams in
order to give younger cricketers more oppor-
tunity. There are altogether too many whis-
kers in the grade elevens, the worst phase
of the survival of the fattest being in the
second and third teams of the district clubs.
Years ago, in addition to the ordinary elevens,
the district clubs used to run teams of vete-
rans, to which the old inhabitants who still
continued their cricket retired automatically;
the revival of these veteran elevens with a
fixing of age-limits in the other teams
should do something towards weeding the
cricket garden.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Insurrection reared
its horrid head in Sydney last week when
most of the leading female operatives in the
County of Cumberland tennis championships
decided to down rackets and declare the show
black. I have as yet been unable to ascer-
tain the exact cause of the stoppage of work
—it is difficult to describe first-class tenuis
as sport, nowadays—but it seems in some
way to be due to the mistaken enthusiasm
of an esteemed contemporary of my own in
the realm of player-writers. However, I
shall report later if necessary. At present,
all is quiet on the Cumberland front, though
there are significant signs of a brooding
offensive.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: For some reason or other
the Australian tennis authorities do not
follow the example of their confreres in
other countries in publishing an annual rank-
ing list of players. W. J. Daish, an ex-
secretary of the Australian body, has come
to the rescue, and the list for 1928 is now-
available. The players rank: Crawford,
Ilopman, Hawkes, Patterson, Cummings,
Kalms, Jim Willard, Sclilesinger, Moon and
O’Hara Wood. Not everyone will agree that
Willard and O’Hara Wood should be so
low down the list;
* * * *
“Cash Amateur” : It sure looks —I under-
stand that the phrase is good American—as
if “Long Bill” Tilden is being galloped down
the steep places of professional tennis into
the sea of amateurism again. Anyway, Ameri-
can Lawn Tennis, a publication which says
it knows everything on the subject and is
usually taken for granted, has come out with
the latest ranking list for Yank amateur
players. This runs : Tilden, Hunter, Lott,
Hennessey.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Derwent”: The Kingston Summer Cup,
one of Tasmania’s biggest golfing events and
a great attraction for golfing tourists, was
won last week by J. Robertson, the profes-
sional at the Kingston Beach Club, with a
score of 147 for 30 holes. There was a
strong field, including Len Nettlefold, Nigel
Smith, of N.S.W., and E. G. Schlapp, of
Victoria, all plus amateurs. Nettlefold and
Smith filled the places with scores of 152
and 155 respectively.
% He $ %
“Query”: I wonder whether any Sydney
golfer can beat the Colonel by six strokes on
a nine-hole course, which feat was recently
achieved by Dick Payne, a 17-.Vear-old mem-
ber of the Brighton (Vic.) club. This
youngster went round in 29 during a practice
match at Elsternwick Park. Bogey is 35 and
Payne’s handicap was 9 !
* * * *
“Iconoclast” ; I have it on good authority
that Nero fiddled while Rome was burning.
It must have been in a similar spirit of
callousness that Mr. Stanley Bruce -took part
in a golf competition in Melbourne last
week when all Australia was groaning under
the iron heel of Percy Chapman. The
Prime Minister finished 8 up on bogey, what-
ever that means, and’ won. He has other
bogies to face in the near future, I under-
stand. One of them also plays golf and is
able to get an ’ate up against anyone at a
moment’s notice.
* * * *
“Kid Stakes”: A youthful Victorian
player who should go far is Harry Williams,
the .13-year-old star of the Commonwealth
club. This lad does the course in bogey
figures as often as not, for which reason it
is probable that he will be picked as fourth
member of the Commonwealth pennant team
next season. The other members may pos-
sibly be W. Edgar (ex-Victorian champion),
Fred Bulte and L. Fowler. The combined
ages of Bulte, Edgar, Williams and Payne
do not reach 70 years, and Fowler is only 26,
Surely this gives the lie to Joe Kirkwood’s
alleged remark that Australia does not pos-
sess any young player of outstanding merit.
* * * #
“Le N.”: You Australians who have been
making so much fuss of late about crows
which steal golf Dalis are out of date. There
is at the St. Germains course, near Paris,
a crow which has for many years been
collecting golf balls. He or she is known as
the Robber Crow of St.. Germains. In a less
thrifty country than France the fowl would
have been shot or trapped long ago. Not so
in this instance. The bird and its activities
are a standing attraction for golfing tourists
from other lands. The visitor is invited to
drive off from a certain tee. Down swoops
the famous Robber, and off goes the ball into
a thicket of lofty firs and is never seen again
—of the original owner, anyway. But
that doesn’t matter. A new ball is available
at a moment’s notice from your caddie, and
if the Robber gets away with that, too —
well, there are plenty more at the same price.
❖ * * *
“Brassey”: The Maoriland system of send-
ing professional golfers on tours of the coun-
try clubs in order to polish up local players
has been imitated in N.S.W. For instance,
arrangements were made for H. R. Sinclair
to put in a short period of instruction at
Kosciusko during the holidays. He will be
succeeded by W. Gray, who spent some time
under Joe Kirkwood in America, and other
professionals will take up the duty during
the remainder of the season.
*,* * *
“Hoylake” : The star British golf profes-
sionals are beginning to realise what their
American confreres discovered some time ago,
that there is more money to be made by exhi-
bition games abroad than there is in stay-
ing at home, however good the job in hand
may be. Arthur Havers the only Briton to
win the British championship "since 1920.
has recently thrown up his billet with the
big Coombe Hill club, and has signed up for
a two months’ tour of the Argentine, in com-
pany with George Gadd. H e asked for
leave, but this the club refused, with the
result that they had to look for another head
professional.
* * * *
“Solidarity” Professional Rugby League
footballers in England were the first to
think of forming players into an industrial
union—characteristically an Australian was
one of the prime movers—and the example
has been followed by professional players
in other games. The latest thing of the
kind is the Rritish Professional Golfers’
Association. This, in addition to safeguard-
ing the interests of members, will also func-
tion as a mutual benefit society, supplying
financial assistance, annuities and help of
other kinds, as far as the funds permit, for
members overtaken by illness, accident or
other misfortune.
(Continued on next page.)


w
A Patented
Motor Gives
You
Exclusive Performance
With the new patented F-head design Hudson
motors now are built with a compression ratio of
nearly 6 to I—or1 —or 20% above the average —with
correspondingly high standards of acceleration, fuel
economy and power.
One of the many outstanding features of this new
design is the impossibility of making the motor knock
under even the most adverse operating conditions.
The new Hudson motor is the liveliest, most power-
ful and economical Hudson has ever built. It unques-
tionably gives the most brilliant performance ever
offered in Hudson history, and is far in advance of
anything the industry has ever known.
To take a single ride in a Hudson Super-Six is to revise
your whole knowledge of automobile values. We
shall be pleased to arrange for a free demonstration.
HUDSON.
127 in. Models.
Standard Sedan
Landau Sedan
7-pass. Sedan
118 in. Models.
Tourer, Colonial Body.
Coach, American Body
Coupe, „ „
Sedan „
£550
590
685
445
500
510
520 „
Five Balloon
Tyres
Standard
Equipment.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMP ANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DISTRIBUTORS:
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH motors, ltd.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
h. c. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
HUDSON W&-


BRITISH
R§M
BRITISH
BALL & ROLLER
BEARINGS
RANSOME & MARLES BEARING CO., LTD. (ENG-
LAND), has always produced only one quality
bearing—“-the best.
These British Bearings are used by more than 80%
of British Motor-Car Manufacturers.
R. & M. Ball and Roller Bearings are made of the
finest materials obtainable, with the same care and
precision as the works of a fine watch, and are guar-
anteed against defects in material and workmanship.
Made in 300 types and over 3000 sizes to fit British,
American and Continental Cars.
Exclusive Commonwealth Agents and
Distributors ;
GARDNER, WAERN 8 CO. PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE: 481 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
NEWCASTLE: Hunter Street West.
South Australian Agents: ADELAIDE HARD-
WARE CO., LTD., Flinders St., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: W. & G. GENDERS PTY.,
LTD., Hobart and Launceston.
Queensland Agents: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO.,
LTD., Brisbane and Townsville.
West Australian Agents: ( Automotive )
COVENTRY MOTOR CO., LTD., Perth.
£
sk.
ML
Hi
mm
%
11111 l
o
The CORDOVA £65
ie enjoyment of any
radio set depends on the
speaker, and the finest set
is better with a Magnavdk
Dynamic. Full, rich tones,
great volume, undistorted.
ASK YOUR DEALER TO
DEMONSTRATE THE
MACNAVOX
DVWAMIC SPEAKER
Australian Patent
No. 7225.
For backward children ♦
Food
Reg. trade Mark.
There is nothing better
than Benger’s Food for
backward children. A cup-
ful between meals, and at
bed-time, provides just
what is wanted.
Send jor Benger’s Booklet, post free,
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.,
MO, George Street, SYDNEY.
W"
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz” : Malcolm Campbell, after seeking
up and down the earth for a natural speed
track to make his attempt on the present
record of 207.55 m.p.h., has at last found a
place to set his tyres, this being Vernak
pan, some 450 miles n.-w. of Capetown.
Like Perkolili in Westralia, it is a dried
up lake-bed of sunbaked clay, and will per-
mit a straight run of 20 miles. This is to
be his last try if he is successful, says Camp-
bell, as lie feels he is getting too old for the
game. If he fails, however, he will go on
trying till he breaks the record —or his neck.
* * * *
“Trembler”: The Brisbane Test led to a
remarkably interesting motor-car jaunt from
Sydney to Brisbane and back. Nor-
man Smith, with E. Poole for an off-
sider, did the journey without any
preparation in the way of supplies, etc.,
along the route. In a Studebaker Com-
mander sports the pair left Sydney at 2.45
p.m. on the Thursday. Brisbane was reached
at 11.45 a.m. on the first day of the Test.
After the cricket Brisbane was left be-
hind, and Sydney reached at 5.12 p.m. on
Saturday. Rain, bad roads, railway gates
and punts all hindered the run. No casual-
ties seem to have been sustained by anyone
or anything. Since then A. 11. Barnes, in
an Oldsmobile with a standard chassis, has
driven from Brisbane to Sydney in 15
hours 8 minutes, cutting 57 minutes off the
previous best time.
* * * *
“Fed Up”: Australia is again threatened
with the advent of two young women driving a
car of the perambulator type round the world.
This sort of thing has superseded the rather
invidious gentlemen who used to walk the
same route for a wager, and that is so much
to the good; but one wonders what the end
of _it will be. Predecessors of the present
pair have successfully surmounted all the
difficulties of the wilds, including lions and
rhinoceroses, without blinking an eyelid, or
sustaining even a minor casualty, if their
own account of their journeys may be be-
lieved. One of these days, however, some
of these adventurines will find a mouse or
an indefinable insect with numerous legs
and long whiskers in the car while the
latter is in the midst of the Sahara desert
or Melbourne on a Sunday. Then there
will be SOS calls for relief expeditions, and
the rush of aeroplanes to Kabul to evacuate
the European women and children will be
a mere circumstance by comparison.
* * * *
“Whoosh”: Germany has announced some
particulars of its entry for the Schneider
Clip race in Britain. This is to be
a Dornier mono-seaplane with two 500-
h.p. engines placed “tandemwisc.” The Dor-
nier Co., in asking assistance from the
German Government, estimates that the new
A. H. HASSETT, the young Victorian
tennis player, whose promise has
secured him selection in an Australian
team against England at Hobart.
’plane—it is not beyond the design stage as
yet—will be able to cut out 360 m.p.k. It
reads like a case of counting chickens, but
it is possible that the bird may measure up
to expectations when hatched.
**' * *
“Hotham”: Somewhat belated details of
motor-cyclist Alec Finlay’s recent attack on
the world’s 24-hour road record are to hand,
and these show that the Victorian put up
new figures for 500-c.c. machines, covering
1042.890 miles in 22-J hours, when he decided
to call it a day. In the first 12 hours his
mileage was 583, which is claimed to be a
road record for all motor-cycles, regardless
of horse-power. Much faster times, however,
have been reported in America, but as the
cycling bodies of that country are not affili-
ated with the International Federation, they
are not recognised. Finlay, who rode a
8.5. A., dropped 15 pounds in weight during
the ride.
Miscellaneous
The annual regatta of the N.S.W. Rowing
Association on the Parramatta saw Mosman
club settle all doubts as to the State’s repre-
sentation in the King's Cup race at Perth
in May by winning the eight-oar champion-
ship in a canter—the judge's verdict was 10
lengths—from Sydney Nos. 1 and 2 crews
the only other entrants. The time was 17min!
33 l-ssec. (distance, 3 miles 167 yards), and
H. L. Callaghan handled his crew splendidly
in the rough water. Bobby Pearce, Austra-
lian and Olympic champion, made hacks of
the opposition in the State sculls, winning as
he liked from Scott and Goulding. both of
N.S.W. A. K. Jackson, of Maoriland, proved
a disappointment in fourth place. He is
used to the smooth-flowing M.L. rivers, and
the chop on the water during the race’ was
a heavy handicap. The winner’s time was
21min. 15sec.
* * * *
“The Gaffer’’: It looks as if Australia is
to get a visit from an overseas athletic
tram, after all. E. A. Hunter, secretary of
the British Olympic Association, lias written
that lie is managing the Achilles club on
a tour of South Africa early in 1929, and
would like a chance to visit Australia. The
Aclniies is the most important athletic club
in Britain, and its ranks are recruited from
the pick of the Oxford and Cambridge Uni-
uirsity athletes. D. G. A. Lowe and Lord
uighley, both of whom are members, are
supposed to have retired ; but, even without
the tamous Olympians, the visitors would
ug 3 ftFCcit attraction if tlicy came over.
* * * *
Ever ton : Amateur Soccer in Australia
leceivedl a knock by the recent decision of
six ot the first-grade teams in the N.S.W.
Association to join the professional League,
the seceding clubs coming from the metro-
polis as well as from the colliery districts.
It looks as if the League movement will now r
spiead in the other States, where, so far, it
has not been able to get a footing. One of
the inevitable accompaniments of professional
tootball is seen in the recent decision of the
JN.S.VV. League to disqualify for 12 months
two Newcastle players charged with accept-
ing bribes to run stiff in one of last season’s
semi-finals.
* * * *
c< Pff” : reported secession of
Syd Malcolm, the Waratah scrum-half, will
come as glad tidings to the N.S.W. League,
if it doesn’t know all about it already. The
little Newcastle amateur returned from his
overseas trip a front-ranker in the posi-
tion. Last season both the N.S.W. and Q.
Leagues foundered themselves trying to find
a class scrum-worker to pit against the Eng-
lishmen, and Malcolm will fill the bill to
perfection. He is practically sure of a trip
to England with the League next season, but
he will find the atmosphere of the game in
the North of England very different from
that prevailing in the Rugby Union circles
he encountered last year.
* * ?|! *
“Swing th’ Boot’’: Even in the off season
some of the lambs of the N.S.W. Rugby
League are giving their boundary-riders grave
cause for concern. In Newcastle and Sydney
they have seen fit to indulge in exhibition foot-
ball matches by electric light, though the
League authorities forbade the innovation
under pain of disqualification. The League
executive's to meet next week to consider the
insurrection, but whether it will resort to
the axe or the whitewash brush is uncertain,
lhe shrewdies are backing the brush.
* * * *
Splash” : Since its revival last year water
polo has regained much of its one-time
interest among swimmers. Both Queensland
and Victoria are after the scalp of N.S.W.,
and Vic. and N.S.W. will clash in a series of
games for the Silverite Cup in mid-February,
lhe Queenslanders want a N.S.W. side in
Brisbane about the same time, but the date
will have to be put forward. In the days of
the Australian swimming boom, when Barney
Ivieran and his contemporaries were at their
top, water polo. amounted to a craze. It is
a most attractive game, and no' branch of
swimming better inculcates staying-power in
addition to speed and nimbleness in the water.
* =i : sjc sjs
“William Tell”: As to unusual sports (B.
26/12/’2B), what about hornussen, which
takes the place of Test cricket in Switzer-
land, where it is commonly supposed the
only sport is taking down tourists? It is
claimed to include the best points of cricket,
golf, tennis, baseball and many other games,
but, unlike them, shows no signs of develop-
ing into an industry. The “ball” is of solid
rubber and egg-shaped, and is driven off a
three-legged stool with a flexible club seven
or eight feet long. Teams run up to 18 a
side. The aim of the batting side is to drive
the thing into certain marked-out areas
which are defended by the opposition armed
with bats shaped like shovels, the object
being to swat or otherwise keep the “ball”
out of the marked areas. You are allowed to
shy the bat at the “ball” if necessary. One
wonders what happens when several players
have a shot in this fashion from different
angles. There should be some work for the
“Zambuks.” . .
* * * *
“Quarter Butt”: Willie Smith, who '
inflicted that unholy hiding on Fred Lindrum
in England (B. 26/12/’2B), has definitely
decided to leave for Australia in February to
try to repeat the process with little brother
Walter. On present form the latter should
prove a tougher proposition than Fred. He
has topped the four figures on a couple of
occasions lately, and if he would only show a
little more consistency he would extend the
Englishman to his top. As it is, he is inclined
to loaf between the big scores, as he showed
in recent matches with that solidest of green-
cloth pluggers, Maorilander McConachy.
* * :U *
“Bias”: Ex-president James Wall, just
returned from Britain, told a meeting of
N.S.W. bowlers the other day that the
“straight woods” controversy, which has
disrupted Australian bowling circles, is now
raging furiously in Britain, where most of
the balls can no more draw than can a
‘strip” artist for a daily paper. As inter-
esting to the fraternity was his statement
that professional bowls and the “crown”
greens the game is played on are rapidly dis-
appearing before the hordes of amateurs
with their flat greens. That may be the
reason for the “straight wood” trouble. The
professional game demanded bowls with a
tremendous draw, which is not necessary for
the game as played on the level surfaces of
the amateur greens, where the kitty and bowls
are in sight all the time and not out of sight
on the other side of the “crown.”
* * * *
“Graeme”: Talking of Waterloo Cups (B
28/11/’2B). When present High 1 Court
Justice Duffy was at the Bar in Melbourne
a witness got a neat one against him The
man in the box had stated that he had never
missed a Waterloo Cup. “Ha. ha !” exulted
Duffy (having up his sleeve an earlier state-
ment that the witness was not in Australia
the preceding year), “so you were at the
Waterloo Cup last year, I suppose?” “No, I
wasn’t,” rejoined the other; “neither were
you.” Then it dawned on portion of the
court, including learned counsel, that Water-
loo Cups are run only every two years.


Catanach’s “De Luxe” Watches
GUARANTEED TIMEKEEPERS.
Perfect timekeepers, and low in Price, Catanach’s ‘ De Luxe
Watches are praised and recommended as the best and cheapest
Watch you can buy.
“De Luxe” Watches are guaranteed by and obtainable only from
Catanch’s.
Order by post from these designs if you cannot call.
24.D.L.38 —Catanach’s Lady’s “De
Luxe” Gold Watch, 15 Jewels, assorted
fancy dials, £3/7/6
24,D.L.2 —Catanach’s Lady’s “De
Luxe” Gold Watch, 15 Jewels, assorted
fancy dials, ££?
24,L‘.L.45 —Catanach’s Lady's “De Luxe” Gold
Watch, 15 Jewels, assorted fancy dials, £3/7/6
Cor, Royal Arcade & Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
24.D.L.36 —Catanaeh’s Gent.’s “De Luxe”
Watch, Nickel, 15 Jewels, Plain Dial,
45/-; Luminous Dial, 50/-
<3*
53
ED
S 3
is
fa)
24,D.L.14 —Catanach’s Gent.’s “De Luxe”
Gold Watch, 15 Jewels, Plain Dial, £9
Luminous Dial, £9/10/- Sterling
Silver, Luminous Dial, £5/10/- W-Mct
Melbourne
Chatter
How luxurious a life on the ocean wave
can be made was demonstrated by the gor-
geousl suites of the captain and officers of
the Spanish training-ship Sebastian de
Elcano, which lately put in here with a
bevy of handsome youths who are quali-
fying for commissions. Guests at an invi-
tation tea positively gasped when Com-
.mander Manuel de Menrlivil opened the door
'of his flat. His sitting-room, panelled in
oak with intervals of bold carving and bois-
de-rose brocade, has harmonising furnishings,
and on the walls so many autographed photo-
graphs of the Royal family that one credited
the tenant with the privilege of addressing
King Alfonso as Alf. A portrait by a famous
painter of the navigator Sebastian de Elcano,
who in Spanish estimation is nearly as great
as Magellan, is amongst the wall-furnishings.
The captain’s cabin, lined witli polished
walnut and with upholsteries and bedspread
of patterned blue-grey satin, could serve as
a prima donna’s boudoir. Equally fine is
the commander’s dining apartment, a minia-
ture banquet hall of a castle in Spain with
tapestried chairs, and a rare old stained
glass fanlight. The principal officers boast
panelled wood suites of apartments, and in
their mess-room the ship’s battle flag, ex-
quisitely embroidered, hangs beneath glass.
The ship has the appearance of a pleasure
yacht, white and slender. Among those who
strolled its decks at the tea-party were
General and Mrs. Coxen, Colonel and Mrs.
Cass, accompanied by Mrs. Spicer, and Captain
and Mrs. Stevenson. Stephen Morell, who
speaks the language of Castile, was there
with his lady and Sheila, and collected some
of the midshipmites—or whatever they call
them in the Spanish Navy—for a dance at
the Rex as a Christmas celebration. Several
of our pretty girls visited the training-ship,
and lessons in the tango were exchanged for
lessons in English, the young hidalgos having
furnished themselves with pocket dictionaries.
But they hadn’t much to learn —a bunch of
Australian mistletoe was suspended from th e
ceiling of their wardroom.
Though there was a general exodus of
society to hills and sea for the Christmas
vacation, a few sports motored back for the
V.A.T.C. meeting on Boxing Day. The
weather was hot enough to make one pity
even the bookies as they perspiringly and
pertinaciously persuaded the poor punters to
part with their precious pelf. (That looks
a bit alliterative, but in a game that is a
matter of prads, prizes, protests, perjuries
and penalties it’s difficult to police the p’s.)
The committee had English guests at lun-
cheon —A. P. F. Chapman and some of his
fellow-cricketers, Sir John Hewett and V.
Harmsworth, of the newspaper-owning clan.
The English cricket captain’s wife and
mother were in the committee ladies’ box
during the afternoon.
Machinery has failed to kill the art of
hand-needlework, and women are still hard
at work at crochet and Richelieu, Mount
Mellick and eyelet embroidery. The Semco Art
, Needlework Co.’s exhibition at the Town Hall
comprises over 4500 articles. A high standard
marks the work even in the juvenile section,
which includes offerings by children under
10. Lorraine Chote, of Toowoomba (Q.),
who secured first honors in the under-10
section, shows a set of mats beautifully em-
broidered in blue birds. Mrs. Vaughan, of
West Melbourne, who gained a first prize
with her wonderful all-crotcheted cloth at
the R.A.S. Show, is a winner in the crochet
section. Olive Garden, whose stitehery is
also favorably known, is one of the big-prize
gainers; and in the colored embroidery divi-
sion Annie Shaw, Clayfield. Brisbane, tri-
umphs with a design carried out in shaded
rose tones with a dash of black.
It would be interesting to know who or
what is responsible for the growing pre-
judice against Australians that is being
shown in England. Several recently-returned
travellers have commented upon the change
of attitude, and a resident of the Apple Isle
who has just been abroad corroborates the
statement that we are out of favor. She
discovered that the dislike is confined to
denizens of the Continent, for when she said
she was a Tasmanian the cold indifference
thawed, and she was greeted almost with
geniality. Possibly the Speck's relationship
to the Commonwealth isn’t very well known
in the Cold Country.
Our Americanisation continues. Bill Van
Cooth, who is leading saxophonist of the
Footwarmers’ amateur jazz orchestra, has
lately composed two nigger dances, “Promise
Me,” which is partly vocal, and “There’s
Nothing Blue About My Baby.” Both have
won plaudits at the Rex and the St. Kilda
Palais. It lias to be said on behalf of the
Footwarmers and their saxophone-composer
that they’ve helped to rake in a lot of money
for charitable purposes by playing the sort
of stuff that enables Irving Berlin to earn
ten times as much as Paderewski and a
thousand times more than Beethoven ever
fingered.
Frank Talbot, of the Atlienaium, gave one
of his small parties at the theatre the other
evening as farewell to art-critic and artist
Jimmy MacDonald, who has accepted a call
to direct Sydney's National Gallery. Mem-
bers of “The Wrecker” co., most of whom
are having their first glimpses of Australia,
were well to the fore. The screening of the
wild-animal movie “Chang” was followed by
dancing, supper and speeches in praise of
the departing guest.
The gallery girls’ welcome to Gladys Mon-
crieff on the opening night of “Rio Rita” at
the Princess must have given a pleasant
thrill to the Fullers. On the leading lady’s
entrance flowers fell like rain on the stage—
a regular storm of wee posies tied with
ribbons. It was nearly midnight when the
show ended, for there were numerous
speeches and a presentation of an address
from the gallery girls. A tiny pony that
had been presented to the Sun’s Christmas
toy fund was auctioned, bringing in £OO. “Rio
Rita” is beautifully dressed, and includes
some fine ballets. The finale is charming,
with its triple wedding and bridesmaids in
variegated pink frocks and graded sizes in
millinery, contrasted with the blue shirts and
khaki breeches of troopers and, in the back-
ground, a green house trailed o’er with roses.
“The Wrecker,” the new show at the
Athenaeum, fills the pretty theatre once again
with the panting and tooting of locomotives.
“The Ghost Train” dealt with only one
sort of railway, but the new play runs the
whole gamut of suburban, express and goods
traffic in realistic fashion. Josephine Wilson
and Noelle Sonning, who top the bill, dis-
play upon their shapely forms some up-to-
date dresses. Miss Sonning’s winter suit
of wine tone is modelled with a full length
Russian coat, high collared and cuffed with
beaver. A three-piece ensemble of a new
blue, which is close to hyacinth, has a cape
of the same and is topped by millinery of
beret mode. An evening frock of bla< k
velvet is worn with an evening coat of the
same material with white fox additions.
Miss Wilson wears some smart jumper
suits, and is last seen in a clinging gown of
ivory silk lace of uneven hem that supports
a large pink bow. A pink chiffon velvet
evening wrap goes with the raiment.
This cheerful lady is Rose Browne, who
is at present putting the finishing touches
to “The Reminiscences of Rolf Boldrewood.”
Under that name her father, the late Thomas
Alexander
Browne, added
17 novels, in-
cluding th e
famous “Rob-
bery Under
Arms,” to Aus-
tralian litera-
ture,' and he
also wrote
n u merous
short sketches.
Miss Browne’s
book of mem-
ories, which is
to be published
by Hutchinson
i n London,
should be on
sale here about
March. T h e
authoress, who
has already
one novel to
he r credit,
“Complications at Collaroy,” which appeared
12 years ago, has taken Rose Boldrewood
as her nom de -plume. She met with an
accident to her right arm about two years
ago, and is compelled to write and type
with the left hand only.
Picturesque figures at Xavier College jubi-
lee lunch the other day were Father M. Wat-
son, the octogenarian man of letters who was
a master when the school started 50 years
ago; Dr. Edward Ryan, the Collins-street
oculist, who was a foundation small-boy
student in ’7B; Father Eustace Boylan, the
friend and counsellor of any boy in a fix
while he was a master for a decade; and the
only Australian-born ex-rector, Father Sulli-
van, now head of the Jesuit Order in Vic.
The 200 old boys came from all parts of
Vic. and Riverina, and they reminisced to
their hearts’ content in hall and grounds
for three hours.
Queen Victoria Hospital replenished its
money-box by a flower fete which was linked
with the formal presentation of a cheque for
£1509, the harvest of auxiliary helpers of the
institution. The ceremony took place at
the hospital, where the Morell lady handed
the scrap of paper to the president, Mrs.
Norman Brookes. Mrs. J. A. Gilruth and
the three daughters of Mrs. Brookes con-
ducted sales of blooms, and a number of other
workers undertook the tea distribution.
The Wattle League gave welcome to
Evelyn Scotney (Mrs. B. Russell) at the
Lyceum Club on a recent evenin, the presi-
dent, Mrs. Britomarte James, in soft raiment
of hue, doing the honors. . The
singer received a bouquet of gladioli which
matched her gown of geranium tone veiled
in crystal-beaded net in mesh design. Edna
Wyatt and tenors Walter Kirby and T. J.
Lloyd sang, and Madame Ashley’s string
orchestra played several numbers. Madame
Ashley sang Mrs. Reynold Lewis’s song of
wattle.
' Here is Georgia Rivers as she stepped
into this office with her new novel “Tan-
telego.” The
young Vic-
torian author-
ess looked so
fresh an d
charming all in
white that
Marietta was
asked to make
a special pic-
ture there and
then for this
Page. Miss
Rivers’s first
novel, “Jaque-
line,” appeared
originally in
serial form,
and later was
amplified for
hook publica-
tion. The latest
effort is a
story woven
about the
theme of heredity, a subject in which the
authoress is keenly interested. She lives
with her mother, brother and sister at East
Camberwell.
The Ladies’ Work Association’s annual
show was, as in former years, a most artistic
display of fine needlework. A bag embroid-
ered in Petit point and an exquisitely em-
bellished white crepe-de-Chine nightie filled
every feminine heart with admiration and
envy. Mayoress Luxton presided over the
business meeting, at which Mrs. John Fisken
was re-elected president. Though the year
has not been a good one for business, speak-
ing generally, the association has maintained
a fairly satisfactory position, and compli-
ments were paid to the manager, Mrs. E.
D. MacDevitt, for her efficiency and enthu-
siasm.
Noel Coward’s play “The Vortex” was
given its first Australian staging in the tiny
Queen’s Hall by Bcresford Fowler’s Little
Art Theatre co. of amateurs. Charles Tait,
of the Firm, was an interested member of
the audience, lured possibly by the act-
ing of Mollie Locke, who played the leading
role. This lady, who has a good dress sense,
was first seen in ensemble of seaweed pink
and picture millinery, and then displayed a
much fringed pink evening gown and similar
apparel of vivid green with glistening silver
and mauve embroidery. Her boudoir robe
was cut on unique lines, and made a good
foil to the royal-blue dressing-gown and
orange-colored pyjamas sported by barrister
Terence Crisp, who made a hit as Micky.
Bunty Mainwaring was nicely done by Mona
Pepyat, whose beautifully coiffured locks
appeared above a gold tissue frock. The
Grand Guignol sketch “The Compleat
Lover” was curtain-raiser.
Evelyn Scotney (Mrs. B. Russell) had a
reunion with old friends at the Oriental,
when the party, which numbered nearly 100,
spread itself about the tables in the big
dining-room for a four-o’clock refresher.
The singer, who looked handsome in ficelle
lace and georgette ensemble, topped with
Ilinkler-mode millinery of shaded velvet
loaves in wine tones, proudly introduced her
small son Brien to everyone. Pink carna-
tions made gay the damask, and guests were
able to chat without interruption, as the only
musical accompaniment was the hotel orches-
tra, which played in a distant lounge. Mrs.
Scotney, mother of the hostess, aided her
daughter in making folks acquainted, her all-
black attire being cheered by a pink rose upon
her hat-brim. Mrs. John Tait, Mrs. Charlie
Tait and Marie and some others of the Firm;
Mrs. Claude Kingston, in picturesque caped
covering of beige pink lace; Mrs. Harry
Rosenthal, smart in black and white; Florrie
Green and Mrs. May Quinnell were a few
of the guests.
Mrs. M. Masterton came up from her
Frankston home to entertain a crowd of
young people the other day in honor of
Mary Jamieson, who is to be married to
Marsden Padman, an Adelaidean now settled
in Bananaland.
Father Christmas came down the chimneys'
of seven eminent counsel in Melbourne just
before the festive season. The case from
which they will draw fat fees is one of the
most complicated taxation arguments in the
legal history of Vic., and huge sums arc
involved. But particulars can’t be published
—yet.
l.ady Somers and her small daughter went
off before Christmas to the vice-regal country
residence at Macedon. The mountain resort
of the rich is at the moment an oasis of
verdure and flowers in a parched and wilted
countryside. A general meeting-ground is
the golf house, where the game isn’t allowed
to overshadow every other consideration. Here
hours may, be idled or even slept away in
sunshine amid rambler roses and the radiant
hues of snapdragons and hollyhocks, without
one being pestered by some enthusiast to
come and have a round.
An end-of-tlie-year wedding was that of
Kathleen Margaret, only child of the late
Dr. John Mclnerney and Mrs. Mclnerney,
of Kew, with Howard Macoun Sherrard, of
the N.S.W. Country Roads Board, whose
parents reside at Brighton. Both the newly-
weds are graduates of Melbourne Uni., and
the lady, who was lately abroad brushing up
her knowledge, was, lecturer in geology under
Prof. Skeats. In compliment to the young
people’s talents the wedding-cake was deco-
rated with appropriate emblems and spanned
with bridges. The bride, who had Rene
Crespin, in powder-blue, as attendant maid,
wore white satin, fashioned like a sport-
suit jumper and pleated skirt. Embroideries
in gold and blue and a lace veil were finish-
ing touches. Guests at the after-rejoicings
were mostly of the upper strata of the in-
telligentsia.
Edith Gibbons, who went abroad with her
mother, Mrs. J. E. Gibbons, of Elsternwick,
was married at the Parish Church, Epsom,
recently, her English bridegroom being Alan,
only son of W. J. Gardiner, of Grasmere,
Epsom. Uncle Robert Gibbons escorted his
niece to the altar, she being veiled in old lace
lent by an Australian relative for the occa-
sion. Dutch caps were featured by the two
attendant ’maids, who wore lime-green frocks.
Those not previously warned might have
been surprised to hear bright music at the
funeral of Mrs. Smithers, wife of the organist
of St. John’s Church, Toorak. It was at the
lady’s own dying request.
Geelong has lost the popular treasurer
of its tennis and golf clubs, G. C. Cox, who
has been appointed to a banking position in
Dunedin (M.L.). He and Mrs. Cox were
kept busy receiving parting gifts, including
a wallet stuffed with banknotes from his
friends and business associates, during their
last days in the seaside city.
Dr. Mona Blanch, who after passing suc-
cessfully through the medical shop here and
securing her degree, went to London for
post-graduate study, has returned, and is
staying with her mother, Mrs. George
Blanch, at Toorak. During her years
abroad Dr. Blanch added substantially to
the alphabetical excerpts which she has a
right to display on her brass plate.
Rose Symons, Melbourne’s woman estate-
agent, had her second experience of a big
fire when the Florida Flats, in St. Kilda-
road, blazed; the first was when the Stewart
Dawson building, opposite the Town Hall,
where she has her office, was gutted. Fire-
men in that case had to get her out of a
window. She escaped from the Florida Flats
in her sleeping garments. The lady, when
flats began to come into vogue, specialised in
letting them, and by the time others realised
the importance of the business she had a
good grip on it.
Jean Stevenson, gen. sec. of the Y.W.C.A.,
and Marjorie Black, head of Fintona Col-
lege, have gone off on a bush holiday. They
are motoring to Sydney by easy stages, and
will camp by the way. When they return
via Canberra next month Lucy Duncan may
have joined them, if she hasn’t decided _ to
sail across to Maoriland to greet an incoming
friend.
Roma Smith, who will step ashore at Mel-
bourne from Shanghai this month, is in
charge of Uncle Sam’s department of Trade
and Customs in the Chinese city. She
intends to investigate our trade conditions
and renew her acquaintance with many Aus-
tralian friends.
The Dermot Caseys have set up a home
in Sloan Square, and Miranda, their small
daughter, will get an English education. They
arrived in time to greet sister-in-law Mrs.
Dick, who was on the eve of a holiday in
Egypt with a family party.
Prof and Mrs. C. A. Scott sailed for
England at the close of the year. He is
commencing a year’s holiday, and while his
wife is visiting friends the learned man will
investigate the antiquities of Greece.
Painter Marion Jones’s picture “The
Roman Scarf” was accepted and hung on
the line at the Grafton Galleries in London
when the Royal Society of Portrait Painters
held their exhibition.
Another of our art students abroad, Olga
Cohn, after chipping away at stone for the
past 12 months, has been awarded a year s
scholarship at the Royal College of Arts in
Kensington, where she will continue to
sculpt.


Drummond & Co.
> »
Suggestions for Christmas Gifts
ŵ
H ' j
\ >
t-
m
m
Electric Lamps, complete
with wiring, &lobe, etc.;
Oriental colourings. £5.
ẁ
Sha&reenette-covered
Powder Boxes, with mirror,
powder puff’, etc.; diameter,
3i in. 8/6.
Lurfcer size, 4 in. diameter, 10/-
sm.
mm
- ' : ':■ ■
a*
-
§!§*£
Wss&i
Tapestry Handbag, with
oxidised brass mount, 6# m. x 61 in.
XI.
.
■*
rcr Qilt and Enamel
Thimbles. 4/-
1
Dainty Coloured Vanity
Case ; diameter, 2% in. 7/6.
ẃ
BATTERSBY HATS
SOFTS AND FLEXIBLES
For cACeri who ‘Discriminate”
BRITISH
HATS
FOR MEN
Sold by the Best Hatters
Actual Makers: Battersby & Co., Ltd., Stockport.
For jurther 'particulars, write —
SYDNEY: Box 1655JJ, G.P.O.
MELBOURNE: Box 364, G.P.O.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Box 763.
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO
CHRONIC BACKACHE
KIDNEY TROUBLE IS THE CAUSE OF YOUR PAIN!
THIS FAMOUS 40-YEAR-OLD REMEDY HAS BROUGHT HEALTH TO THOUSANDS
IT WILL SURELY BENEFIT YOU
Short, sharp stabbing pains in the back when you rise
from bed, real torture to straighten the body after
stooping, these are sure signs of dangerous kidney trouble.
Poisons and harmful bacteria are being stored up in the
blood, which are causing a state of inflammation in the
muscles and joints—that is why you have pain.
If you are tortured by Lumbago, Sciatica or the dreadful scourge
of Rheumatism, it is no use rubbing your body with ointments when
the trouble is in your blood. Until you prompt the kidneys to
filter out the pain-giving poisons, you cannot hope to be rid of
body and nerve-wracking pain. The quickest, surest means of
banishing chronic Backache, Lumbago, Sciatica or Rheumatic
pains is a short course with the world-famous 40-year-old remedy,
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
This is the evidence of not one but thousands of those who owe
health, vitality and strength to this preparation, which sells by
the millions of bottles throughout the world.
Many once bed-ridden for months, many
who say life has been one long
misery of pain and suffering
have banished that
misery for good—
thanks to De
Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills.
They cost so little
yet work such
wonders.
~~p
■e*
is
£
V.
$
%
--*
<fe
s - c
potN'
C3^
%±
<*
I Ml
ft
t»
0^
iff
\
Sufferers from the chronic, crippling pain of Sciatica, Lumbago
or Rheumatism, the days when you had to spend hard-earned
money experimenting with ointments, plasters and potions you
hoped would help you are past. There is no need to sit in
dreadful pain “wondering” if your body-torturing, brain-racking
trouble can be banished. There is no need to waste money on
unknown preparations.
We are convinced that with the genuine remedy, De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills, taken regularly, your suffering will quickly
end. For 40 years De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills have been
invaluable for all forms of deep-seated Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Uric Acid, Kidney Trouble and Bladder Weakness.
Because of their enormous popularity, De Witt’s Pills have been
imitated. For your own sake—that is if you wish to get back
health quickly and surely—definitely refuse such substitutes.
If you are troubled with Backache, Lumbago, Sciatica,
Rheumatism, go to your chemist now and get a 3/6 bottle
or 6/6 size (the large, full month’s treatment) and end
your trouble for good. In 24 hours from the very first
dose of “De Witt’s” you will see and know they .are doing
you good. Persevere, your pain will be banished and
splendid health, vigor and vitality restored.
<4 I
KIDNEY
& BLADDER
PILLS
THE REMEDY WITH THE DEFINITE GUARANTEE.


Under
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1920.
Tom
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
Meslleidsiedi
unis
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGNE
Qiarkslleidsie#
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
m
e
an Eastern Setting
m
THE exotic decora ■
tions make the Ball •
room and Palm Court
ideal for the formal or
the intimately informal
gathering.
Luncheon a la carte
daily.
Afternoon Tea .. 3/6
Saturday 4/-
Monday Afternoon
reserved for Bridge.
w
'J'HE Egyptian Ballet
showing every
afternoon and evening.
The Egyptian Orchestra
under the baton of.
Jimmy Elkins.
Satur day Evenings:
Dinner and Supper
Dance a la carte,
minimum, 10/6.
Other Evenings the
Ballroom may be
privately engaged.
RESERVATIONS RING 8W1361.
FOR
~fi>P centre of Queens/onc/&
c//shnguishoe/ Socio/ Life.
ŵ
aNvasiaso,
mm
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running and Electric Fans m
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
CHAMOISETTE
GLOVES
Christmas is tucked away again in laven-
der. The City’s buy ways have lost their hec-
tic flush, and already the highways of a few
days ago are avenues of reduced tickets. Here
are two home-grown instances of the uplift-
ing influences of Christmas. Four weeks ago
this Letter made the acquaintance of a doll
of Continental extraction, which made such a
favorable impression that it was mentally
ticketed for delivery to a small girl friend.
Six days before Christmas the doll was
sought again. There it stood smiling and
rosy and altogether the same as on first
acquaintance—except that the ticket now
read 355. instead of the original 18s. 6d.
The second instance of keeping up appear-
ances was made by a crystal bowl. During
the year this Letter bought one of a
numerous family for 2s. Gd. Strolling along
a gift counter on the eve of the 25th, several
brethren of this same bowl were posed
proudly under a ticket: “Attractive Gifts,
7s. Gd. each.” Well, it’s over! Tinselled
trees are packed away for another year, and
beribboned champagne corks and jazz caps
that looked raffish even two days ago now in
the aura of the perennial New Year resolu-
tion to work hard and live plainly have the
air of a roue surprised by the dawn. * 1929!
The worst stings have been drawn from Mr.
Bavin’s Taxation Bill. And there are lighter
hearts at Buckingham. Long live the King!
The weather-man mixed his brew for the
A.J.C. Summer Cup. While the first hours
of the opening day blazed a trail across
necks and noses, the final hour was tossed
about on a wind that seemed to have been
kept on ice for half a year. On Boxing
Day the gee-gees ran and the stands
applauded under leaden skies, and in a cool-
ness that was blessed and serene.
One of the most striking dressers of the
meeting was Mrs. John McKelvey, just about
to depart for Europe. She wore white em-
broidered in sky-line blues topped by a coat
of the same melting hue. A shoulder cape,
finely pleated, fastened with a cameo, was
an unusual feature of Mrs. Ellis Fielding-
Jones’s pale-pink outfit. Patsy Irene Homer
whispered along in a series of dots. Mrs.
Denis Garvan’s frock was a cream back-
ground for orange and blue in a Dutch-
pottery design. Irene Vanbrugh arrived one
day in a moss-green satin hat and ivory
tailor-made. With her came Dion, looking
vainly for even one Duke to talk to. Half
a crown was the nearest thing to royalty
that came his way. Surgeon MacCormick’s
lady gladdened the eye with primrose yel-
lows and greens, while pretty Morna looked
like a posy of sweet-peas in her pale pinks
and fainting mauves. Helen and Philippa
Stephen were two others of the delectable
young things \Gio watched for lucky horse-
shoes to fill to overflowing their already full
Christmas stockings.
Coats of varying degrees of thickness even
unto fur made their way to Randwick on
Boxing Day; but the day, though cool, was
not in the polar-bear class, and presently
Ailsa Cullen, who was with her Lieut.-Gov-
ernor parent, cast her furry skin and emerged
in a nice fluffy cloud of blue. Soft grey
was worn by two smart women, Mrs. Colin
Stephen and Mrs. Sep Levy. A collar of
silky grey fur climbed from the latter’s
repp coat to her grey summer felt. Mrs.
Herbert Kendall’s woodland browns sug-
gested Gena Stratton Porter’s Girl of the
Limberlost, but she said the bets she lost
were troubling her more. Mrs. Malcolm
Mackellar wore yellow roses in her hat. Im-
portant people in the vice-regal pen were
Australia’s Chief Justice Adrian Knox and
his lady and Rear-Admiral Hyde.
The heavyweights of the St. John Ambu-
lance Association greeted Sir John Prescott
Hewett and his daughter, Mrs. Atkinson,
with the cocktail and the cutlet in the
Blue-room of the Wentworth. The lady’s
luggage being late in arriving, she sat down
in a pink-and-white check cr§pe-de-Chine
frock, which, after all, looked very nice and
cool in the summery surroundings of pink
roses, giddy snapdragon and mauve scabious.
Chief Justice Philip Street presided; others
noted were Dr. J. S. Purdy, Dr. Storie
Dixson, Dr. J. Adam Dick, and the untiring
secretary, Sister Parry.
It has become a commonplace for the
flappers of Darlinghurst to tram it out to
Bondi in their surf-costumes and wraps; but
a ticket-collector on a main-suburban train
got a shock when he came upon a bevy of
girls in beach attire making their way with
lunch-hampers towards Sydney. With some
severity he mentioned that regulations re-
quired train travellers to be properly
dressed ; but the perfect aplomb with which
the daring flappers asserted their rights beat
him. Merely taking their names, with an
apology that he had to protect himself in case
they were held up further along, he retired.
The free-and-easy lasses caught the Bondi
tram and apparently did the journey to the
sea-beach and back to their lioifies without
any further hindrance.
Knight Henry Braddon was to have been
the centre of a farewelling within Dalgety’s
last week. The retiring superintendent of
the great wool and shipping firm was to have
been presented with the staff’s gift, his por-
trait in oils, by Maoriland artist Bowring,
but a feverish cold kept him to his bed. The
portrait will be handed over early in the
New Year.
Promptly to the stroke the Makura moved
from No. 5 wharf carrying a company of
159 Y.A.L. boys on their European travels.
Literally thousands were on the wharf to
break a streamer in farewell, most of them
aunts and uncles, mothers, fathers, sisters
and brothers and chums of the lucky young
travellers. It was like a jungle growth—
the waving and fluttering of yellow and blue,
white, red, green and purple streamer fronds.
From Lightning Ridge, Cobar, and Bre-
warrina, from By rock, Wilcannia and
Menindie, from Bourke, Hungerford and
Tibooburra, those nice Stanley G. Drum-
monds have again collected 100 child-
ren and brought them to Manly for
a holiday by the sea. They are all
quartered in the Manly Public School,
and anyone who feels inclined to arrange
special treats for them should get in touch
without delay with the Reverend Mr. Drum-
mond. The holiday lasts only three weeks.
Pretty Marion Arnott, of Elizabeth Bay,
floated into matrimony on a glittering wash
of silver lame and a surf of tulle at St.
Philip’s, on Church Hill. Bishop D’Arcy-
Irvine launched the bride from the mooring
of father’s arm into the sea of matrimony
when Frank Jennings, of Strathfield, sig-
nalled his willingness to be her lifebuoy.
Sisters Lorna and Heather ’maided. Their
frocks had bodices of silver lam 6 scalloped
at the waist, from which fell ankle-length
skirts of many-pointed pale green and mauve
chiffon. They . wore pale green silk straw
hats and carried mauve flowers tied with sil-
ver ribbon. Richard Manning best-manned.
Bride’s mother hostessed the subsequent re-
ception in handsome black and silver frock-
ing.
St. Clement’s, at Mosman, saw Enid
Thompson made the wife of Dr. John B.
Oakeshott, of Killara, now practising in Lis-
more. Another bride who was claimed before
the passing of the year was Pauline Kelly,
daughter of W. P. Kelly, M.L.C., of Welling-
ton and Cremorne. Maurice McGrath claimed
her in the Sacred Heart Church, Mosman,
and congratulations were voiced at the Clif-
ton Gardens Hotel.
Dayne made this picture of Mrs. Arthur
Rutter, who
h a s worked
for the sol-
diers without
ceasing since
the be gi li-
ning of the
war. At the
moment she is
president of
the League of
Volunteers re-
sponsible for
the manage-
ment of the
new cafe run
for the benefit
of the blinded
soldiers. The
new rooms are
attractive and
cool, and are
on the second
floor of Crich-
ton House, 32
Pitt-street.
St. Philip’s, oil Church Hill, was misty
with hydrangea when Una Bellamy, of Con-
cord and formerly of Cowra, became the
wife of Dr. Leslie Claremont, of Neutral
Bay. The rose taffeta wedding-frock had the
short, tight bodice of the 1830 period, and
the skirt was composed of layers of small
pink taffeta petals mounted on tulle of the
same rosy hue. ’Maid Margaret Donald
ruffled in the procession in pink chiffons
frilled from hem to waist. The reception,
which was staged in the Wentworth ball-
room, was presided over by the bride’s sister.
Audrey Johnson’s wedding came off last
week. Its original date had to be passed
by owing to the bridegroom, Rex Cham-
bers, having an urgent appointment with ’flu.
The knot was finally tied at All Saints’,
Woollalira, by Canon Langley, while inti :
mate friends waited eagerly with confetti
and congratulations. The wedding garment,
which had the skirt pleated, a waistline
defined with a plaited girdle and a handker-
chief collar, was of white crepe de Ghine.
John Roxburgh best-manned. Mr. and Mrs.
W. K. Johnson, of Woollahra, she wearing
grey georgettes that floated into a cape effect,
spread a small wedding lunch at the Rose
Bay golf club.
Nola Hagon, very young and pretty under
a web of Carrickmacross lace that flowed
into an impressive train, whispered the
usual promises at St. James s on a recent
evening. Padre Micklem registered them. Ine
young man who took part in the diajogue
was Dr. J. L. Harrison, of Clifton Gardens.
Nola is a daughter of the W. A. Hagons.
of Point Piper, and the church was crowded
with the smartly-dressed, whose looks were
almost applause as the bride in her white
Chantilly passed on father’s arm.
The Food for Babies’ fund, one of the
offshoots of St. Margaret’s Hospital, has
the nice-look-
ing Mrs. Stan-
ley Patrick as
one of its sec-
retaries. She
has been an
ardent worker
for the fund
for three
years; and
one of the in-
direct results
of her efforts
was the
Chris tmas
party at St.
M a r g a ret’s
new rest-home
for mothers
and children
at Balgowlah.
The greystone
house, origi-
n a 11y the
home of Pro-
fessor Gurney, stands four-square to the
winds of Heaven, and on the day of the
party a rollicking wind threatened to teat
the marquee up by the roots. Perhaps the
presence of Santa ,Claus and a glittering
tree with presents for everybody turned his
rage to mischief, and he satisfied himself
with attentions to the ladies’ skirts. Any-
way, the party was a great success, and Mrs.
Kales, who founded the fund, was voted
Queen of the May, or its equivalent. St.
Margaret’s Hospital and the Limbless Sol-
diers also benefit by Mrs. Stanley Patrick’s
labors. Walker Studios made this picture.
One of the many relations of millionaire
Jimmy Tyson has endowed a Wahroonga girl,
Millicent Irene McFadyen, with all his worldly
goods. St. Stephen’s blessed the gyves, which
were riveted by Padre It. J. Flockhart. The
bride, who wore a soqffle of white lace and
georgette, was attended by one palely-pink
’maid. The toasts were honored at Petty’s
Hotel on Church Hill. The ’groom is the
only son of the late Mr. and Mrs. J. Tyson,
of Hay.
Marjorie Wilson, of Balgowlah, Manly,
will go to Melbourne for her wedding. The
young man who awaits her is Dr. T. Stirling
Eddie, and the two will be made one at the
Toorak kirk on January 28. The reception
will be at Chessleton, Toorak, and the honey-
moon will be spent in Europe. Marjorie
was formerly one of the popular girls of
Tamworth.
Mrs. John Toohey died just before Christ-
mas in her flat at St. Monica’s, Elizabeth
Bay. Eight years ago Mrs. Toohey was one
of the handsomest among Sydney’s older
matrons; her snow-white coiffure and he!
diamond earrings were distinguished dress-
ing at every notable concert in the Town
Hall. Her passion was music, and not only
did she listen to the artists’ performance, but
she entertained them handsomely at her
home in Greenknowe-avenue. She gave gen-
erously to all public and many private chari-
ties, and was among the foundation members
of the Victoria League. The Bush Book
Club and Sancta Sophia, the Catholic
Women’s College within the Uni., were other
enthusiasms. One of her more personal hob-
bies was the collection of Baxter prints;
hers was probably the most complete in Aus-
tralia.
Sydney has been taking leave, for a while,
of Father Piquet. “The French priest,” as
he is known, is a jolly, kindly personality
who has been stationed at St. Patrick’s,
Church Hill, for 48 years, working among
what has become a very poor flock. In all
that time he has never had a real holiday,
and he is going to spend one across the
Tasman.
Mrs. Osbourne England, who has gone hack
to her name of Jessica Lee since she obtained
her divorce, must feel proud of the results
of her six months’ organising work for the
Deaf and Dumb and Blind children at Dar-
lington. As a result of matinees, dances,
treasure hunts and bridge parties the fund
stands at £6857.
Passed through Sydney last week on their
way to Europe the J. B. Callans, of Dun-
edin (Maoriland). The name of Callan has
been associated with the law in the South
Island for half a century, and Jack Callan
follows his father as senior partner in the
old firm of Callan and Gallaway. Gavan
Duffy, Australia’s famous Irishman, was
an uncle, and that’s a name as well known
among the law-dealers in Victoria.
A great circle of Sydney friends grieved
over the untimely death, in San Francisco,
of Mrs. Edward C. Harris, who was Dorothy
Kirkpatrick, of Logan Brae, Bellevue Hill.
It was during the Althouse and Middleton
tour, three years ago, when Mr. Harris
travelled as accompanist to the concert party,
that the two met. Later the Australian girl
went to America to be married. Pneumonic
’flu was the cause of her death, which had an
added sadness from the absence of the young
husband in New York on musical affairs.
A motorist friend tells me that at last he
has discovered a roadhouse that recognises
the value of the surrounding landscape.
It is at Bulli Pass, and the view from the
dining-room windows is a superb curve
of blue sea and sky and golden beach.
Isabel Gullett, of the Sun, is the first
newspaper woman in this city to have a
brother in a Federal Cabinet, Harry being
the new Minister for Trade and Customs. The
women journalists are so delighted, because
now when they go, as they do each year, to
Europe or the East, they can bring back
with them no end of dutiable stuffs. There’ll
be no need of silly subterfuges, either. One
will, of course, just raise one’s lorgnette at
the inquisitive Customs official and say: “My
friend Mr. Harry Gullett won’t mind a bit.
Here is my card ; just send it to him.” Where-
upon the overawed official will humbly carry
the jewels, furs, ospreys and silk stockings
to the waiting Rolls-Royce.
White satin scrolled with seed pearls and
a mile or so of tulle gleamed around Phyllis
Campbell as she gave the usual undertaking
for a life-long partnership with Arthur Ran-
ken, of Lockersleigh, Goulburn. S.t. Stephen’s
Kirk blessed the contract. The bride,
who is the younger daughter of the
late Gaviri Campbell, of Cudgclo, Cowra, was
given away by brother Robert, and
sleuthed to the altar by Ruth Dunlop, in pink
chiffons that gradually deepened to rose.
Clive Milson squired the ’groom. Mrs. Gavin
Campbell, the bride’s mother, took the helm
at the Queen’s Club, where the congratula-
tions were offered.
St. Vincent’s Hospital lacks a Children’s
Ward. With the object of helping to found
one, the ex-trainees are forming an associa-
tion. which promises to be a very valuable
auxiliary.
Phyllis McDonald, the amazing- young
violinist, is now leader of the Phyllis Mc-
Donald quartette at the Royal Academy.
Last year when Lionel Tertis fractured his
arm on the eve of a performance by the
world-famed Lener Quartette, of which _he
is the notable viola player, the clever girls
jumped into the breach at a moment’s notice,
and have accomplished something in the
nature of a world’s record by having pub-
licly performed 85 of Haydn’s quartettes for
strings between November and June. The
London papers were loud in their praises of
this unique achievement.
From “A.G.M.,” in London :
Mrs. Langtry, the once-famous “Jersey Lily,” who
has been visiting London after a long absence, and
who was very warmly greeted wherever she went,
gave interesting interviews to several of the news-
papers. The thing that surprised her most in London
is that nowadays all the women dress alike.
The housemaid, the typist, the teacher and the society
woman all follow the same fashion. In Mrs. Lang-
try’s day the well-known women all dressed in an
individual way. The Jersey Lily herself, Mrs. Corn-
wallis West, Mrs. Browh Potter, Georgina Countess
of Dudley, the Duchess of Leinster and other
famous beauties never wore anything that looked
like what anybody else wore. The Drapers’ Trust
has helped in the great change, first brought about
by the extinction of the small private dressmaker.
Now on a given day every large shop in London is
stocked with the same make of dress, hat and coat.
When any change is decided on, all surplus stock
is recalled, remodelled and distributed simultane-
ously to all the big stores.
Princess Mary put another nail in the coffin of
women smokers on the occasion of her first visit to
Ipswich to perform various official functions. Near
the close of the luncheon given in her honor, and
after the toast-master had announced “Ladies and
gentlemen, you may smoke,” cigarettes were offered
to H.R.H., who without comment turned her head
away in such a significant manner that none of the
ladies present had the temerity to light up. Other
influential personages have been reminding us that
the only women who smoke in public in France or
Spain are “women of no importance.” There has
also been a ferocious outburst in the press against
the nicotine enthusiasts who smoke in cafes and
restaurants or other places where food is served,
and who infringe the regulation against smoking in
railway carriages not intended for that purpose.
Visitors from America and Canada • have been ex-
pressing astonishment at smoking being allowed in
any of the London theatres. Such a thing is unknown
across the Atlantic. At the few houses where
smoking has been introduced, managers have found
that many of their old patrons do not attend. At
the Palladium the other day when Tom Burke, the
Covent Garden tenor, sang, there was a large notice
asking that there be no smoking until after his
numbers.


&
? <\
J
er.-fes
3?* aw i
HE
*3K
SkS
* * 4
m
mm
#?5
g
imjrmii
nri
74
r "i
HINDU TEMPLE
COLOMBO
VISIT CEYLON FOR YOUR
HOLIDAY
are so many attractions
—big game, ancient cities,
temples, beautiful scenery,
wonderful vegetation— t hat
visitors to Ceylon are assured
of a most enjoyable holiday.
The First Class Excursion
Return Fare to Colombo from
Sydney is only £65.
ORIENT LINE
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
ŵ
ẁ
follow
THIS
TO THE
SIGN FOR PROFITS
LEIPZIG SPRING FAIR (GERMANY),
With GREAT ENGINEERING AND BUILDING FAIRS, Commencing March 3, 1929
Profitable to the Business Man on account of the payable agencies offering.
Profitable to the Pleasure Seeker, as the beauty of Springtime in Germany, and
the wonderment of the Fair is a sight worth seeing. Advice and Letters of Intro-
duction courteously given entirely free.
Authorised Representative: LARS G. BRUNDAHL, 6 Dailey Street, Sydney. ’Phones: 84006, MW2201.
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J C. WILLIAMSON, T/TI)., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE VAGABOND KING.
ROYAL: MR. PIM PASSES BY.
CRITERION: THE PATSY.
{RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
TH EATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
SHOWING NIGHTLY.
A NEW SHOW EVERY WEEK.
NELLIE BRAMLEY
COMPANY present
The highest class of play obtainable, at popular
prices.
The Royale Syncopators Chase Gloom
from Dull Intervals.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
lIIS MAJESTY'S : THE DESERT SONG.
ROYAL:
MARGARET BANNERMAN in
OTHER MEN’S WIVES.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE:
LEON GORDON in
SCANDAL.
ATHENZEUM THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
Proprietor, Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee, E. J. Carroll/
EVENINGS, 8.15.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, 2.30.
E. ,T. CARROLL’S NEW ENGLISH DRAMATIC CO.
in
THE WRECKER.
A Thrilling Railway Mystery Play
By ARNOLD RIDLEY,' author of
THE GHOST TRAIN.
Sole Direction E. J. Carroll.
ING ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NICOLA.
WORLD’S GREATEST WIZARD.
Amusements,
IJOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
ROSE MARIE,
With
JOAN CRAWFORD.
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY,
TOM MOORE and DOROTHY REVIER
In the Master Picture,
THE SIREN.
Pox Plan at Allan's and Theatre. 'Phones: 7076 & 7790
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
I •
iwtt'
sum
BRITISH
ADE
Perfection
PIINR RUBBER.
THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern Is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Disguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The Sugar Producers’ Association had a
Party for Mr. and Mrs. McAUepp, of Hawaii,
on the eve of their departure south. Senator
Crawford took the chair in the Mandarin
lounge at the Carlton, and made a speech
about the guests, who had some nice tilings
to say about this State’s hospitality. Mrs.
McAllepp was in navy with touches of green,
and Mrs. Crawford also chose navy, and
wore a black hat with Oriental trimming
The table was dressed in pink and red car-
nations tied with pink tulle.
At St. Agatha’s, Clayfiold, Hilda, second
daughter of the E. E. Forths, married Daniel
Brian O’Sullivan. Pale pink and blue flowers
and palms decked the church, with bowls of
hydrangeas _at the altar-rails. The bride
was. in white mariette, ’broidered in rose
motifs of silver, and carried a shower bou-
quet of roses and carnations. Mrs. Phil
Allom, the bride’s sister, lent the net veil.
Herries Forth, Hazel We ame - and Audrey
Forth ’maided in white crepe ninon frocks
and ivory Baku hats. They carried respec-
tively blue hydrangeas, cloth-of-gold roses
and La France roses set in tulle to match.
Lennon’s Eastern lounge, decorated with pink
roses, saw the feasting.
This is Mrs. Cecil N. Woolf, whose mar-
riage to Major
Woolf, of the
Royal Welsh
Fusiliers,
who was for
a time Sir
John Good-
win’s private
secretary, was
a social event
of last month.
The youthful
bride is a
daughter o f
the late Hu-
bert Finney
and Mrs. Fin- 1
ncy. of this
city, and is a
well - liked
girl. Her wed-
ding was a full-
dress military
affair at St.
Paul’s Kirk.
A Poulson camera caught the bright smile.
At Blackheath Home the Christmas tree
grew on the river bank, where guests and
children sat and blessed all they received.
The Santa Claus, J. Campbell, arrived on
a magic carpet like a veritable djinn.
At St. Luke’s Hall, Brisbane, Toe H-ers
had a Christmas party, to which the Good-
wins went, Sir John giving one of the wee
kiddies a seat on his shoulder to see things.
J. Holliday. State sec. for the R.5.5.1.L.A.,
put on the regalia of Father Christmas,
climbed down a chimney, and handed the
gifts from a gaily-decked tree to more than
800 kiddies, who otherwise mightn’t have
had much seasonable cheer this year. Mrs.
B. P. Robin looked after the supper, and ex-
Judge Jameson, Dean and Mrs. de Witt
Batty and Canon Cue were there.
Mrs. W. Ewart, of Windsor, who will be
102 next April, had a Christmas visit from
Sir John Goodwin. The old lady has been
66 years in Brisbane, coming here from
Whitby, in Yorkshire, the fishing village
where some of Captain Cook’s ships were
built. She remembers the coming of the
Fortitude, in which John Dunmore Lang
brought Presbyterian emigrants to Brisbane.
Fortitude Valley, now our big shopping
centre, then a genuine valley overgrown with
native flowers, creepers and trees, was the
place where the migrants established their
tents and huts.
Their Exes, have had a busy time attending
Christmas functions at soldiers’ convalescent
homes. At Ardoyne and Rosemount the
wards were decorated by the patients.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The week has been largely filled by Christ-
mas treats for children of the poor and un-
employed—one of the largest of them in the
Exhibition Building, under the wing of Mrs.
Lavington Bonython. It had its origin in
a matinee given by Frank Neil; the Adver- i
tiser made an appeal for more funds, and as
the upshot there was Christmas for a thou-
sand small people who would otherwise have
gone very short of festivity. At Port Adel-
aide tea and a tree were provided for 1600
more—Mayor Brown and his wife launched
that effort—and there were similar revels at
Glenelg (where the Optimists were hosts),
Norwood, Ilindmarsh and Henley Beach.
Lady Hore-Ruthven was at the Hindmarsli
affair, which was a regular dinner and
accounted, among other things, for nearly
901 b. of plum pudding; and she and his Ex
were at the party in the Exhibition. Girl
Guides took Christmas presents to the
Children’s Hospital; South African Soldiers
gave their usual children’s treat; and at
Colonel Light Gardens—a district hit heavilv
by unemployment—the local branch of the
R.S.A. gave a party, which was fortified by
parcels of groceries for the elders.
At St. Peter’s College Chapel, Malcolm
second son of the J. K. Samuels, was mar-
ried to Nora, daughter of the late Major
Donnell. The bride abandoned conventional
white in favor of delphinium blue with a
hint of copper.
At Chalmers Church, the John Cowans’
daughter Nance married Wesley, son of Mr.
and Mrs. W. James, of Joslin.' She was ali
ivory satin and tulle, with two yellow'-clad
bridesmaids for background.
For the rest, cricket has been our chief
distraction, and the committee’s luncheon
guests included the Governor and the Mul-
liollands. The latter broke their journey here
and stayed at Government House for a day
or two on their way to the Eastern States.
Maude Puddy contemplates a trip to Eng-
land. She is one of the most popular mem-
bers of our _Con. staff, and her name on the
programme is a safe draw to any concert. Mr.
Scliilsky’s departure has been postponed till
the end of the first term of next year, the
Con. not having yet managed to fill his shoes.
The Victoria Square railings are to go
to mark the boundary of University lands
along Victoria-drive, and the ’Varsity has
had a cheque for £lOOO from W. J. Young
to pay for removel and re-erection. At Com-
mem., on the worst day we have had this
year, the Chancellor reported the gift and the
establishment of the Bonython annual law
prize of £lOO, a recognition of the knight’s
gifts of £20,000 and £40,000 —the former
endowing the Chair of Law and the latter for
the erection of a Great Hall. The usual
graduates’ lunch to graduates-elect followed
Commem.; Judge Parsons was chief speaker.
The engagement is announced of Clive,
elder son of A. G. Fenner and the late Mrs.
Fenner, to Bonnie, only daughter of H. H.
Kin near, of St. Kilda, Melbourne.
The Narkunda’s passengers included the
George Milnes, back after a nine months'
sojourn in England.
There is a new shield for competition at
St. Peter’s College. It is to be held each
year by the house that does best in school
work, and is the gift of the Chief Justice —
one of the most distinguished of the school's
ex-pupils.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Only two members of the St. John Ambu-
lance delegation reached Tassy, the others
being held up on the Mainland by illness
or business engagements. Those who crossed
the strait were Sir John Hewett and his
daughter, Mrs. St. John Atkinson. A recep-
tion committee took charge of them at the
station, and motored them to Government
House, where they were the guests of his,
Ex. Next morning they were taken to see
the surrounding scenery, and in the evening
Mayor Wignall welcomed them at the Town
Hall, where they delivered an illustrated
address on the work of the Red Cross.
Margaret O’Grady, in blue crepe de Chine,
hostessed a very cheery little shivoo in honor
of Miss Wilson, the Scottish Girl Guide
representative who is touring Australasia,
Part of the entertainment consisted of the
playlet “Between the Soup and the Savory,’ 1
very well done by Mrs. Shadforth, Miss
O’Grady and Catherine Cullinane. After
tea there was singing. There were about
50 guests, mostly connected with Guiding.
We are setting our house in order for the
summer tourist. King Solomon Cave, at
Mole Creek, has been electrically lit. The
switching-on ceremony was performed by
Railways Commissioner St. Hill, who was
afterwards presented by the Tourist Advisory
Board with a tobacco-jar of Tasmanian
blackwood. Mayor Wignall, Chief Secretary
C. E. James and a number of Parliamen-
tarians motored from the south, and the party
included E. C. James, the pioneer, whose
interest in the caves dates back over 20
years.
With the end of the year passed away the
last of the five sisters Garrett, whose names
have stood so long as a monument to their
conduct of the Ladies’ Grammar School.
Pupils of “Miss Garrett’s'’ have wandered
far and wide, but they are bound together,
those of them who remain, by a common
tie of affection and respect for the noble
women whose influence was such a strong
factor in their school days.
Alfred Ashbolt and his lady have returned
from the Cold Country after a tour of the
European Continent. She brings the dread-
ful news that the bustle, beloved of Victorian
dames, is certain to come into vogue again.
A Northern Midland engagement just
announced is that of Barbara, daughter of
Mr. and the late Mrs. Henry Reed; Mount
Pleasant, Launceston, to Donald von Bibra,
of Beaufront, Ross.
Here is a youthful follower of the Inky
Way, Lilian Brown, winner of the Laun-
ceston Couri-
er's Christ-
mas prize
story competi-
tion this year,
and a contri-
butor to the
Woman’s Mir-
ror, the late
T R i A d and
several local
journals. She
is on the liter-
ary staff of
the Mercury.
Born in Eng-
land, she has
lived most of
her life in
Tassie, and
likes to im-
port the local
color into her
fiction. Apart
from writing,
her principal hobby is riding.
Douglas Wilkie, son of Allan, the Shaks-
pearean actor, lias joined the staff of the
Mercury.
NORTHERN TERRITORY.
Darwin.
Save for the elections Darwin has been
unusually .quiet, and even the fact of three
candidates standing has done little to ruffle
life s. placid waters. Mrs. Nelson, wife of
the sitting member, has been with him during
this electioneering trip,' renewing old friend-
ships, and has materially assisted in her hus-
band s return.
The committee for the Christmas tree given
yeaOv t° the children of Darwin by the
-h.5.5.1.1j.A. entertained about 550 youngsters
under 12. Most of the toys, we’re proud to
be able to say, were of British manufacture.


Monday to Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/8.
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper /-, or
la carte, minimum, 15/-
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Jack Woods’ Ambassadors Dance
Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
ttWtt&ttuJ'rt
y Sit.** £tit. 1?
~J/ie Rexh
ey
Macnaughts
‘GUINEA” SHOES
Smart square toe model
in Tan and Black
Calfs.' Also Patent
Coltskin. Stocked in
half sizes.
ẃ
Hi
Write for CatalogX
TWO MENS SHOE STORES
135 KING STREET, 6~ 316 GEORGE STREET
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
A-
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
HIS LITTLE CORNER
By Randolph Bedford.
FRANK PORTER and Tom Whaley,
being in Sydney, walked down the little
hill from the Street of Magic to the
caves of the Forty Thieves, each of which
lies behind a brass plate. The day was the
Sabbath, and the Forty Thieves and their
hangers-on were away in the suburbs or at
the beaches leading virtuous lives with their
families. For although business has roguery
sticking between buying and selling as a
nail sticketh between the joints of the
boards, yet all these business men, who eat
each other only when hard-pressed, and whose
staple diet is the public, are excellent citizens
individually. Even burglars get married, and
such murderers as are respectable pay
income-tax.
Given to the quietness of the day, all these
brass-plated sepulchres were as silent as a
wilderness. The tunnel between the high
buildings of Pitt-street lay in shadow under
the blue; at the street intersections the sun-
light fell in a yellow stream and eddied
against the silence of the street-corners.
And then decenev was assaulted by noise
—the blaring of trombones, the thudding of
drums and the giant brass of that roomy and
gloomy instrument, the bombardon.
The two friends heard also other sounds,
not of brass or hide, but more terrible,
because they purported to be human voices.
This new attack upon the peace of the
world turned into the quiet street,
and the devil of noise made the
welkin wring its hands in pain.
They roared up that tunnel —
bombardon, trombone, shrill cor-
net, shriller woman, irritating tam-
bourine, barbarous drum; they
formed a ring and beefed out a
hymn.
“Wonderful! Marvellous !” said
Tom Whaley. “They extract plea-
sure and hope out of that 1”
A tremendous man whom Whaley
had styled the Lord High Admiral
finished conversing with the
Almighty on very familiar terms
and invited Brother Brookes to
speak.
The two friends saw Brother
Brookes and knew him at a glance.
He was tall, thin, grave and grey,
and the greyness was in his face
and his skin as well as in his hair.
The voice was cultured, the “tes-
timony” lucid and restrained, the
vocabulary that of a man of edu-
cation.
“Why,” said Porter, “it’s Ernest
Brookes, the architect. Pie used to
be one of the regular lads of the
village, but dropped out about-
eighteen months ago. So this is
where he pulled up. He must be
crazy.”
“Listen, old man; let’s hear what he s
got to say.”
“My friends,” said Ernest Brookes, “none
of you know why I left the world after being
forty years in it and of it; none of you know
why, after being a Salvationist for a year
and a half, doing the little good I can quietly
and in the background, I at last agreed to
come out into the open and tell the truth
about sin. It has been a struggle—l have
always hated publicity—but it has become
my duty to fight down the last of my own
desires, and to find my highest service in
doing the thing I most abhor.”
“Now what good can he do by that except
to hurt himself?” said Frank Porter.
“Let’s hear—if he will tell us.”
“It is in pursuance of that duty that I am
here to-day—to hurt myself with the pub-
licity I hate, to mortify my spirit by doing
the thing flesh and spirit shrink from in
something that is painfully akin to fear.”
“Over their heads,” said Porter, and with
justice; for the lusty saints were evidently
bored by this statement, so quiet, so direct,
so opposed to accepted formula.
“I cannot tell
you the reasons
that made me
abandon the life
that I had grown
up in, the profes-
sion for which I
was educated, the
friends of that old
life —careless men,
carelessly sinning,
but full of good-
ness and very dear
to me. That is my
secret, and only
God and I know
what is in my heart. The best of
men have some secret sin, some hidden
meanness that each holds sealed from
all his fellows, in fear that they should think
as meanly of him as he thinks of himself.
The worst of men care not for the depth of
their badness—sometimes care so little that
they are ready to boast of it or to lay it
bare to the sunlight. I might be a blitter
man if I could find the humility to bare my
inmost soul to you, or a worse man if that
seeming humility were really shamelessness.
For that doubt I am silent in this most
personal matter; but sin is sin. and we can
talk in generalisations as effectively as in a
matter of particularity.”
The captain and the thick man whom
Whaley had dubbed the Lord High Admiral
were whispering. Plainly they were dis-
appointed—here was a convert talking
quietly like a thing of reason. They missed
the noise, the hysterics, the raucous self-
accusation, the praying loudly at the street-
corner, the beating of the breast necessary to
the ritual of the Pharisee since man’s begin-
ning in the world.
“Sin is sin ; that’s the whole root of the
matter, and there are no degrees to it. If I
fall temporarily from grace and not far from
it so that I may recover, I have yet been as
bad as men who are less equipped against
temptation, and who without the armor of
happiness that was mine are guilty of the
“'I'll keep this secret,' the hospital doctor said, ‘for only one reason—the sake of the
women and children who love you wastrels.'”
most atrocious crime. It is a matter of the
talents we begin with ; some men by heredity
and environment have neither a talent nor
a chance, and if they fall lower than I, whom
heredity and environment have strengthened
beyond my deserts, in reality they never fall
so low as I if I fall at all.”
“Too rational for this crowd."
“They’ll yawn directly and then they'll
sound the loud timbrel and jettison Brookes
into Egypt’s dark sea.”
“Without, then,” proceeded Brookes, re-
lating the specific sin. I have repented it
enough to say that the fear of the world after
my experience of sin drove me from it.
That may have been cowardly, but that is
how it was. I was young and popular, and
I made money as easily as other men starve.
I loved the better things of life —books and
painting and music and the open air. But
strength is its own snare ; pride is suicide ;
and prosperity that makes selfish is death
unto the soul. In this city I lived a careless,
happy life with just enough occupation to
provide money for my responsibilities and
my pleasures —enough work to give zest to
intermittent indolence, popularity among
men arid laughter in the sunlight.”
The captain signalled Brookes that his
testimony had exhausted its time.
“They’re bored stiff with it,” said Porter;
but Brookes’s hand-wave deprecated official
interruption, and seemed to promise the end
of his story.
“While so living a life of happy, careless
animalism, God sent a warning to me—a ter-
rible warning—not physical, but a great men-
tal shock in the sudden death of a man, a
sinner like myself, and beloved by me; and
from that shock I awoke to duty—the duty
to depart from the ways of the world and
leave all that I had, and follow the gleam of
the ideal through pain and sacrifice.”
He might have continued, but the Lord
High Admiral made a motion that suggested
Santerre calling “Aux Tambours” to drown
the scaffold-speech of Louis Capet. The drurti
thudded, the bombardon brayed ; the raucous
chorus arose again.
Then the fiery captain “testified —the
real thing, charging himself with all the
deadly sins (which was probably false) ; and
related his belief that he had been possessed
of seven devils (which was probably true).
The Lord High Admiral at intervals during
the recital bleated, “Praise God, Brother!”
as if possession by seven devils were a holy
and highly desirable condition, and the loud
procession resumed its journey, Brookes lag-
ging in the rear as if discouraged.
Frank Porter drew abreast of him and
stopped, saying, “Hullo, Ernie —don’t you
know me?”
Brookes stopped also, looked searclnngly
at Porter and then at Whaley, and recognised
Porter, sighing as he did —as if recognition
included a recognition of inescapable sin.
“This is Mr. Whaley, Ernie,” said Porter.
“Now drop out. Come for a walk and let’s
talk.”
Brookes sighed again. “I think I will,” he
said; “I feel I’ve been a failure to-day.
Just wait while I ask the captain to let me
gd.”
He ran forward to the captain, and that
large officer gave the permission with unflat-
tering readiness; clearly he had had enough
of Brookes for one day.
Brookes rejoined Porter and Whaley;
silently they turned up King-street, past the
old infirmary, tlie law courts and St. Mary’s
Cathedral, and northward into the Domain—
the Sunday stamping-ground for the city's
bores that have the curse of fluent speech.
There was a man proving by charts that
he had been in turn Adam, Abraham, David,
Ezekiel and Christ, and proving further that
he died regularly and conveniently returned
to earth at intervals of forty thousand years;
there were men preaching Christianity, single
tax. Imperial federation, disarmament, the
building of greater navies and other things,
each as sole cure for the misery of the world.
There were Christian Israelites fanatically
sure that the growing of Nazarenic hair is
the only redemption for all sins; and there
were little groups of enthusiasts representing
each a new religion not yet sufficiently re-
spectable to find a place in the records of
the Registrar-General.
“This is the greatest collection of poor
humanity I’ve ever struck,” said Whaley;
“they’re an endless study to me.”
“They all believe they’re right," replied
Brookes, almost sternly, “and man must,
believe in something or be as the beasts that
perish.”
“I believe in men and women, and kids and
sunlight and a fair deal,” said Whaley.
“What does ‘Thy kingdom come’ mean except
justice for everybody? The trouble I find
with most of these people is that they treat
Christ —or the spirit of Christ, which is the
same thing—as if he were dead, whereas
Christ is as alive as Qver he was, or His
spirit ever was, and that was before the
man Christ was born. These people who
live on the game would have us believe that
Christ was the inventor of love and justice,
not the apostle of them. Why, love and
justice were in man before there was a
plough or a furrow, and every mother since
then has been building mother love until in
a few great beings it has grown to embrace
all the world.”
“The fact that these people see only a
little of the light doesn’t make the light itself
the less,” said Brookes. \ “The trouble is
to find our medium. I think I’ve mistaken
mine.”
“You would never get along with that
crowd you were with to-day, Ernie,” said
Frank Porter. “Oil and water may worship
the one God, but they can’t mix in the
church or out of it.”
“I was thinking that, after my failure
to-day. It won’t do —maybe I shouldn’t have
left the world.”
“Left the world? Nonsense! How can
you leave the world while you eat and drink
with somebody you’re glad of; while you
care for anything in it —even a dog? Why,
it’s not only selfishness and cowardice to;try
it. but it’s stupid, because it's impossible.
Leave the world? The only way to leave
the world is to be utterly selfish, never to
feel another’s trouble or laugh with another
man in his joy. Leave the world! I’ve
known nuns to" believe they had given up
the world, and all the time they were train-
ing children or nursing the sick and making
somebody thank God they couldn’t leave the
world.”
“That’s true,” said Brookes. “That’s
true.”
“And what made you throw in the marble
so early in the game? A fine wife and kids,
a good profession and friends by the cart-
load J Now, what craziness got you, old
man ?”
Brookes smiled. “I wouldn’t testify to the
crowd, but I’ll confess to a friend —two of
them,” he added, including Whaley with his
eyes. “In fact, I’d like to. I’ve bottled it
up so long—over three years now—and it’s
almost made me crazy. I’ll tell you. Come
away from the crowd down to a quiet rock
where w’e can watch the sea.”
Brookes looked back upon St. Mary’s Cath-
edral showing its spires and towers through
the magnolia-green masses of the Moreton
Bay fig-trees. Porter, following his glance,
said ;
“You used to talk of banishing from Aus-
tralia everything that looked like the Gothic
in architecture. Remember that, Ernie?”
“Yes,” said Brookes heavily; “I used to
get hot under the collar arguing for the
domes this sky calls for. But that’s gone.”
“Coppered minarets oxidising green,” pur-
sued Porter kindly, but slyly, too.
“Yes. Domes and minarets weathering
green. Our sandstone doesn’t do the Greek
form justice, but we could Italianate our
houses. But, anyhow, let’s get on.”
Near Mrs. Macquarie’s Chair they found a
big, brown, flat outcrop of sandstone in a
green sea of grass, and looking out upon
Sydney Harbor. Easterly the great bastion
of North Head ; blue sea and sky, with one
thin white cloud in it, and ships passing and
white yachts, and the black masses of gum-
trees beyond Chowder Bay, and above them
the bulk of the sandstone cliffs of George’s
Heights.
“It’s very fine,” said Brookes; “I haven’t
seen it for more than a year. I’d like to
bring the wife and kids here.”
“Come back to earth and see it every
day. Now tell us why you left it —or, rather,
why you tried to leave it, because yow can’t
(Continued on page Ift.)


ffZ.
m
\m.
5%
\\l
W/
355;
»
f
S
s§§il
m
m
m.
r^m
*3
HARDT'S
S&ARKILIJVG
n


/ .
s&kiti fk
'
r M '^
'W
t
1
\
J r — , 'N
w
Produce of Sunny Pastures
Delicious full-cream cheese —REX
Luncheon Cheese —its flavour delight-
fully piquant,its food value great; for
it is never new and green or old and
strong, but at the exactly correct stage
of perfect maturity.
In handsome opal jars and 2oz. and 4oz. decorated tins
Other REX Sandwich Delicacies
REX Ham Pate, 2oz. and
3soz tins.
REX Salmonelle, in glass jars
REX Veal and Tongue Pate
REX Devilled Ham.
REX Ham and Tongu
REX Veal and Bacon
REX Anchovy Paste
REX Bloater Paste
Always say REX
Delicious for sandwiches
and sauouries.
?r=7\C*^?2
o*s
C»1
7
S
%
pood
rßobuds,
s**£
&;
9///
JO/Teg
•-'C
REX
Luncheon Cheese
FOGCITT JONES PTY. LTD.
(Division of Unihed Provisions Lhd.)
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon


!S
Every Man Is the Architect
of His Own Destiny!
Don’t be among the Negative Thinkers who sigh and
say: “I wonder what 1929 has in store jor ME”? Adopt
the POSITIVE attitude.
What Have I in Store for 1929?
ver you live, whatever your Aim or Ambition, there is a STOTT COURSE to help you
Following are but a few of more than 300 Success Courses on STOTT’S Syllabus.
All Australian Exams.
Accountancy Exams.
Architectural Courses.
Arithmetic, Algebra
Advt. Writing
Advt. Illustrating
Amateur Wireless
Agricultural Courses
Bookkeeping (Farm, Mer-
cantile, Station)
Business Managers
Bus. Letter Writing
Bankers’ Institute
Building, Construction
Builders’ Estimating and
Tendering
Boiler Attendants
Commercial Art
Chemistry
Civil Engineering
Concrete Engineering
Coalmining
Dynamo Attendants
Dairy Supervisors
Draughtsmanship
Expressive English
Estate Agents
Engineer! ng
Electrical Engineering
Electric Wiremen’s
Elec. Lighting/Power
Engine-drivers
Fashion Illustration
General Education
Government Exams.
Gas and Oil Engines
Handwriting
Hydraulic Engineering
Journalism (Freelance)
Literary Courses
Law (Commercial)
Languages
Locomotive-drivers
Mathematics
Memory Training
Mail Order
Mechanical Engineering
Mech. Draughtsmanship
Municipal Engineering
Motor Engineering
Mine Surveying
Nurses’ Educational
Oil Engines
l’ha rmacy
Police Entrance Exam.
Public Speaking
Quantity Surveying
Secretaries’ Exams.
Shorthand, Typing
Salesmanship
Story Writing
Showcard, Ticket W’t’g
Sketching, Cartooning
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Stammerers
Surveying
Structural Engineering
Strue. Draughtsmanship
Steam Engineering
Sanitary Engineering
Teachers’ Exams.
Touch Typewriting
Timber Measurements
Testers and Graders
Verse Writing
University Exams.
Window Dressing
Wireless Engineering
Encircle the subject in which you are interested and mail the Coupon.
TECHNICAL
CODDESPONDENCE
COLLEGE
Head College in Each State.
100 ltussell Street, Melbourne.
70 Pitt Street, Sydney.
452 Queen Street, Brisbane.
49 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
106 St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
rirpr%r ■ iriltn Technical
I I I I a ' Correspondence
J 1 V/ £ 1 uJ Colleges.
I am interested in
Name
Address
SR29I
For the Car Owner
“PRIMA”
PAINT
SPRAYER
ŵ
CELLULOSE
PAINT
OUTFIT.
,PRIMA CO., LTD., Birmingham
Details from Factory Representative,
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE . . . . , . . . . 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
r.
a
you use a
&
SAFETY
RAZOR
iiyyii
They cost no more than inferior blades and maintain
their cutting edges as long as the best. Made of
special steel, they conquer the
most stubborn beards. On sale
by all good Stores in packets of 5
and 10 blades, to fit all Gillette
type razors.
/KIRBY. BEARD &C 9 Ltd
|p| wi e
pnoO’Baav39A9ai>i
The “ICB.”
Razor protects
the four cor-
ners of the blade without
obstructing the cutting edges.
Australian Agent: H. E. UTTLEY,
Margaret House, 282 George Street, Sydney.
Kirby, Beard & Co.. Ltd., Birmingham, London & Paris.
C/se a"B£ARD”to shave a dearc/
C.T.P.52
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
ẁ
/hi? C f?ade Mark
ẃ
in the Watch Care
1 03
succeed. The fact that you want somebody
dear to you to admire solitude with you is a
proof that you don’t like solitude.”
“You’ve got it, wrong, Frank. I didn’t
join that —that —crowd to be with them, but
to get away from myself.”
"Impossible! You can’t leave yourself
unless you get drunk and then stay drunk.
When I see a drug fiend I think of that.
You never know' what sort of Hell he escapes
by forgetting himself. But go on, old man—
I should be listening.”
“Well, you know how I was. Money
enough, a fine wife and kids and friends—
too popular maybe. It was just friendship
that pulled me • into positions I hatod;
acquaintances and my own complaisance
landing me in conditions my own fastidious-
ness revolted at. Did you know Stocker?
A big hearty chap he was—on the coarse
side, but a good follow enough, a hard liver.
Married and happy enough, but out of re-
straint lie must wag a loose leg. It’s three
years ago.”
“He died about that time.”
“I’m telling you how he died. We were in
Melbourne —business by day and pleasure by
night. I wanted to get back home to Sydney.
So did he; but we were on a conference that
seemed interminable —resolutions come to
after days of labor by dull men ; suspicious
dull men, looking at every letter and every
comma, to he sure that no threat or treason
lay there. And at night Stocker and I went
about —too young and too strong to sit down
and read, or do crewel work, or go to bed
before midnight or later*. We exhausted
theatres; then we tried card-playing, and we
got bored with that. So it came at last to
our last night there. And the dull men, now
satisfied that we wicked chaps from Sydney
didn’t intend to sandbag them, took us
out and wined us and dined us.
“I had too much and was as careless as
falling water and didn’t care where I landed.
And where I did land was at a house I
wouldn’t have looked at any other time.
My fastidiousness had kept me a gun-shot
away from them, once my very young
curiosity was satisfied'. And there ‘l landed
at the villa of harpies at about midnight
with three of the Melbourne fellows and
Stocker*. They ordered champagne and made
a name for themselves by paying three
pounds a bottle for aerated gooseberry wine,
and I smoked and talked and made a laugh-
ing ass of myself.”
“Not much harm yet,” said Whaley—
except for permitting insults to your own
intelligence.”
“There wasn’t any harm—beyond that.
And then suddenly we noticed Stocker wasn’t
with us, and a few minutes later a woman
screamed ‘Go to Maisie.’ One of the women
shrieked, and they all left us like frightened
fowls. At last one of them came in and
told us that Maisie had screamed because
Stocker was dead.”
“Good God!”
“Yes —as dead as last year. And then
the egotism of us all had its field-day. I
didn’t think of Stocker, only of myself and
escaping the disgrace of being found in such
a place; and the Melbourne idiots who had
brought us into the mess said it was ‘really
a terrible thing for them’; and not a word
for the dead man or for me. And then the
Madame of the place, a fat harpy with a
yellow wig, began to roar about' the dis-
grace to ‘her house’ and gave us an exhibi-
tion of respectability maddened at the
thought of calumny. ‘A terrible thing to
happen in my house,’ she said, paraphrasing
the hypocrisy of Lady Macbeth 1 . ‘ln my
house, gentlemen—l shall be ruined. You
must get him away from here.’
“Then I made them all yell by saying,
‘Better send for the police at once—it’s
got to be faced.’ I found I was alone in
that - all the Melbourne fellows against me
—all their ferocious respectabilities had
joined the Madame’s. They all said it
wouldn’t! do • the scandal was too great—-
something else must be done. Stocker’s
sudden death was from natural causes and
that was all anybody need know. And the
decentest man of them all cured me of
wavering J>y asking me how I would break
the news to his wife. That settled me. I
couldn’t tell that poor woman in Sydney
the circumstances of his death. It would be
too cruel; self-preservation whispered that
it would oe dangerous to myself. I’d lose
my wife —my children —everything.”
“Then you haven’t lost them now?” said
Frank Porter.
“No. I haven’t lost them—yet. Well,
there we were. I agreed. We put Stocker
into his coat and overcoat—my God! have
you ever dressed a dead man, with his
helplessness doubled by the sum of your
own fear that somebody is looking? That’s
what I got that night—the sense of some-
thing looking at me which I couldn’t see
but I could feel. It was a great eye that
looked from everywhere—l could feel the
glance on me like a ray of cold light, and
yet I could rot see it.
‘We dressed Stocker; we wakened the
chauffeur, and two of us—myself and the
best of the Melbourne lot—led Stocker out
of the house and down the garden to the
C u r l Stocker up by brute strength so
lit Ie S s 3 dragged along the ground.”
My word,’ says the chauffeur, ‘he’s got
a on ‘ I wish I had half his complaint.’
. ihe car started back to town along St.
Ivilda-road. At Domain-road four of the
Melbourne crowd left us, said good-night a
bit too loudly, and went for their lives
relying on our own fear to prevent us
detaining them. So 1 was left with one man
and btocker s body, and I know tho other
fellow would try to crawl out of it. and leave
me there with the dead man. Talk of con-
science making cowards of us all! It’s
nothing to the fear of injured respectability.
These fellows had no conscience to speak of
and yet they were afraid of the car’s flying
shadow. In Swanston-street, near Coliins-
street, I saw that h 0 was getting ready
to escape, and I suddenly let Stocker «ag on
my arm and called to the chauffeur, ‘Stop'
My friend’s collapsed.’ The car stopped and
we put the light on Stocker, and the chauf-
feur said He s dead. I’ll drive to the hos-
pital. That definitely committed the Mel-
bourne man who was left with me—and the
chauffeur taking charge relieved me. But
that doctor at the hospital was clever A
thin, precise old chap, eyes that couldn’t
wink, and could keep fixed on you while
you answered questions even if it was for
an hour. He was kind enough to take me
aside; then his kindness fell off, and h e said
he didn’t believe me. Said lie: ‘You say
you’ve been driving only half an hour and
the chauffeur says so too. This man has been
dead two hours. Heart failure, of course;
nothing suspicious. But why the lies about
the time?’
“Then I told him and he was very stern
about it. ‘l’ll keep this secret,’ he said, 'for
only one reason—the sake of the women and
children who love you wastrels. But there’s
one condition —you must give up your ways
of life; be a good man, by which I mean
a man who does nobody any harm. Promise
me you are out of this sort of life for keeps!’
1 promised, and Stocker was buried as a
man who had died suddenly of heart failure
in a car, and I broke the news somehow to
his wife in Sydney and she makes a yearly
pilgrimage to the grave.”
“It’s better that way. Damn, the truth
when it is cruel! I mean, if it’s cruel to
somebody else.”
“Well, that was it—the shock, the relief,
the belief that it could be all forgotten, and
then the return of it. To wake at night,
and to feel Stocker’s weight dragging my
shoulder down, and hear Stocker’s feet drag-
ging on the pebbles of the garden walk ; to
feel the horror of it all again—the dread of
discovery reacting so that I could not bear
to be with my wife and children, and thus
1 gradually withdrew myself from them.”
"Not absolutely, I hope!”
“No, not absolutely. I live in the same
house, but I go home late at night and leave
early for my office, and on Sundays I go
round with the —\yith that crowd you found
me with to-day.”
“Only as mortification of flesh and
spirit?”
“Yes.”
“My dear chap, when did penance do any
good if it didn’t make the penitent content?
And you’re not content. The same mental
fastidiousness that kept yon clear of the
wrong places until the night Stocker died
makes you unhappy in that noisy procession
of saints. And if you’re unhappy you’re
valueless. You’re suffering a rush of egotism
to the head —you and that Salvation Army
captain who looks like the quarters of a
brewer’s horse when viewed from the rear,
roaring egotism.”
“I don’t roai', Frank.”
“No, you don’t roar—that’s true! But
you’re as bad or you’re worse, because you’ve
got a light to hide. Go and give Sydney the
domes she needs—give her minarets of copper
oxidising green.”
“I will, I will!”
“Use your talents. Go home and earn your
family’s pardon for the last three years of
gloom by making them happy. Take back
your friend again; you’re in the world and
you can’t leave it till you die. And it’s a
good world, and we’ll all hate to leave it
when the black day comes.”
Brookes laughed. “So we will, and you’ve
converted me, Frank. But do you know that
if the meeting had applauded me this after-
noon I mightn’t have been fit to take your
excellent advice?
“My dear old chap,” said Frank Porter,
“when the actor ‘gets the bird’ he thinks
of mother and the dear old home—always.”
And Brookes went to his little corner of
the world, having listened to the wisdom from
the mouth of a friend.
Married.
Only a heart beating there
By the candle in the hut.;
A heart that waits and yearns,
In an old body shut.
Only a man that tramps
On through the gloom to where
A hut in the night holds one
Who in her youth was fair.
Only two lives that go,
As they for years have gone,
Heavily, kindly still
On the road that they are on.
On the road that marriage makes
For two, or good or ill,
Till the candle of life is spent,
And the heart that beats is still.
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.
The Beckoner.
Good friends together, tine fellows all,
Fond dreamers, too, if the truth were told,
They sat at wine in a lighted hall,
And sang of glory and love and gold.
Each letting the world and its ways go hang,
Each caring but little for time or tide,
Red-rose lamps under they laughed and sang,
Not minding the chill of the gloom outside.
Yet this I know —for I saw him there —
As on and onward the long night wore,
With dark eyes glooming and dusky hair,
There stood a Reckoner at their door.
Though songs they lifted and fancies spun,
There, there he stood at the door wide-
thrown ;
And ever he fixed his eyes on one,
And ever he beckoned to one alone!
Then silence fell on that company,
And each faced each with a look per-
plexed—
“ Who beckoned him hence?” “And where
went he?”
“And who shall follow his going next?”
Strong wine they lifted to still their sighs,
But never the same old thrill could stir;
For each man dreaded to meet the eyes
And glimpse the hand of the Beckoner.
While dim and grim in the gloom he stood,
A chilling shape at that festival,
What joys were lasting, what dreams were
good,
With him in the shadows to spoil them all?
Lone one after one of that jovial throng
He called with his hand, from the door
thrown wide;
And one after one, grown weary of song,
Went forth from the light to the dark
outside.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Public Notices.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Persons, etc., Insuring with any
Insurance Company Not Registered
in New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act 1909-1921.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associ-
** tions being owners, trustees or agents
for any goods or property within the Sydney
Fire District, and every other Fire District
in the State of New South Wales to which
the Fire Brigades Act 1909-1927 has been
applied, in respect of which premiums are
paid to an insurance company not registered
in the State, are hereby notified that they
are required to send to the Board of Fire
Commissioners of New South Wales returns
showing the amount of such premiums paid
by them in respect of the said property to
such insurance companies during the year
1928.
The time appointed for receipt of the re-
turns is on or before the 31st January,
1929; subject to a penalty not exceeding £1
per day for every day of default.
NOTE. —Returns are required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly charge-
able in respect of the Fire Risk during
the time such property was in any Fire
District under the said Act.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
26th November, 1928.
NOTICE.
Return of Insurance Premiums Required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act 1909-1921.
ALE Insurance Companies, as defined by
the above Act, are hereby notified that
they are required to send to the Board of
Fire Commissioners of New South Wales,
returns showing the total amount of the
premiums received by or due to such Com-
panies in respect of risks against fire during
the year ending 31st December, 1928, within
the Sydney Fire District, and every other
Fire District in the State of New South
Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act 1909-
1927 applies; less any part of such pre-
miums actually paid by way of reinsurance
to any other insurance companies contri
buting under the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the re
turns is on or before the 31st January, 1929;
subject to a penalty not exceeding Five
Pounds for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required
returns may be obtained from the under-
signed.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
26th November, 1928.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 QUEENSLAND.
No. 40 of 1928.
Mr. Justice Macnaughton.
Mr. Justice Webb.
IN the Matter of “The Companies Acts
1863 to 1913”
and
IN the Matter of The River Transport Com-
pany of Australia Limited in Voluntary
Liquidation.
To WILLIAM HARMER BROWN form-
erly of Scott Street Hawthorne Bris-
bane in the State of Queensland Marine
Surveyor.
WHEREAS on the Fourteenth day of
December 1928 UPON MOTION made unto
the Supreme Court of Queensland at Bris-
bane before the Honorable Mr. Justice Mac-
naughton by Counsel on behalf of Scott
Stewart Crawford Mullin of Brisbane Public
Accountant the Liquidator of the above-
named Company to determine certain ques-
tions in the matter of the winding up of the
said Company involving inter alia the duty
of the Liquidator to allot or issue to one
Mario Francis Torazzi or his nominee or the
abovenamed William Harmer Brown 40,000
or any or what number of fully-paid shares
of ss. each in the said Company and the
right of the said Mario Francis Torazzi or his
nominee or the said William Harmer Brown
to claim or rank as the holder of such 40,000
shares or any of them for the purpose of the
adjustment of the rights of the Contributories
among themselves and the distribution of the
moneys in the hands of the said Liquidator
among the shareholders of the Company
according to their respective rights and inter-
ests the JUDGE DID ORDER that ser-
vice of the said proceedings should be made
on the said William Harmer Brown and
that service in manner in the said order men-
tioned including publication of notice thereof
once in the Sydney Bulletin the Melbourne
Argus and the South Australian Register
should be good and sufficient service on the
said William Harmer Brown AND DID
FURTHER ORDER that the said Motion
stand adjourned for further consideration
with liberty to apply.
NOW THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE
that if you the abovenamed, William Harmer
Brown desire to be heard on the said Motion
you should immediately give notice of such
your desire to the said Court or to the said
Liquidator or to his Solicitor at the address
given below and in default of your so doing
the said Motion may be heard and determined
in your absence.
DATED this Nineteenth day of December
1928.
[L.s.] D. M. O’FLYNN,
Deputy Registrar.
Arthur H. Pace, Solicitor for Liquidatoi’,
Empire Chambers,
Queen and Wharf Streets, Brisbane.
Position Wanted.
TO STATION OWNERS.
ETNERGETIC married man, 42, with wife
and two children (9 and 11), wants
position to take charge or management of
up-to-date sheep property in N.S.W. or
Queensland; used to all kinds of machinery
and windmills. Lifelong experience in Vic-
toria and Riverina —services guaranteed.
Good character, genuine references. In-
quiries to this office.
“THE AGE”
Established 185Jf.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
A Newspaper in which the spirit of Progress
and Development abounds, and whose forceful
Editorials and Literary features provide a
wealth of interesting reading—both socially
and politically.
For 74 years this influential household publi-
cation has enjoyed an envious period of pros-
perity, and is an institution firmly established
in the regard of the Victorian people generally.
If you desire to keep closely in touch with
the news of the day, read
“THE AGE,”
whose vigorous articles and great political
principles—with its full and accurate reports
on all subjects having a genuine news value —
have made this publication an outstanding
newspaper in modern journalism.
“THE AGE” publishes over
1,000,000 advertisements
annually.
Price lid. per copy at all Newsagents and
Bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter, post free
within the Commonwealth.
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Missing Friends.
J. E. FITZPATRICK —Deceased. —
Will any person knowing the where-
abouts of Tasman Adolphus Fitzpatrick,
last heard of at Zeehan, in Tasmania, in
1903, please communicate with the Public
Trustee, Hobart,
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CLUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISLAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAL ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Leading
Advertising Agencies.
FOR SALE
“ Coonardoo ” Illustrations
The original drawings, by C. H. Percival, are
now for sale.
The Manager,
THE BULLETIN OFFICE, SYDNEY.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
The National Mutual Life Association
of Australasia, Limited.
Established 1 869.
Extracts from the Fifty-ninth Annual Report.
20,728 new Policies issued assuring ... .£9,807,845
New Annual Premiums 363,805
Income for Year 4,930,596
Payments to Policy-holders 2,075,058
Added to Assurance Fund 2,441,176
Assurance Fund at 30/9/’2B 29,147,329
EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR.
Bonus Certificates for the Year ended 30th September,
1928, will be issued on Ist March, 1929 .
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
HON. SIR THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C.
SIR JOHN VICARS.
OSWALD ST. CLAIR, Manager.
OFFICES: 350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
X
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess Insurance, and effect a
saving in cost.* Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
GUWTS
SURGICAL
BELTS
e
FOR EVERY PURPOSE
SPECIALLY featuring abdominal sup-
, port for men, women and children, tn
woven surgical elastic, fine coutille or
jean. Sporting belts, in web, cotton,
or wool, with or without elastic sides,
india rubber, air or stuffed pads as required.
Elastic Trusses of every description. Self
adjusting, comfortable and convenient.
GUYATT & CO. Dept. Jf.
257 a George Street, Sydney.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
è
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL &C tid.
If you have
Woof & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
Beans—
really oven baked
HEINZ Oven Baked
Beans are distinc-
tively different—so de-
licious and nutritious.
Webake themuntil each
bean is transformed
into an appetizing mor-
sel that melts in the
mouth. It’s a long, slow
process, but no other
method of cooking per-
forms such wonders.
Simply heat in the tin,
serve hot—and enjoy.
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY
London, Eng. Pittsburgh, Pa. Toronto, Cmm
one of the
Varieties
HEINZ
OVEN BAKED
BEANS
•with Tomato Sauce
1488-A


Rexona Soap
Tor Health and Beauty
mm
m.
■
h %
mmms.
MISSES
LAL AND
KAL
FALLOW,
beautiful
Rexona
Girls,
write: “We
always use
Rexona
Soap for
the hair
and com-
plexion.
Our motto
is
‘Rexona.’ ”
I m
remitter
m
/
Say it with Hillierfc/
rosted. t/ie. day they are made
y/te /dmous
Red Bax oF
BhocoLales
HILL TEH'S
ADD HESS ~ - * ,
€u^o^.
CHOCOLATES
162-166 Pitt Street
S Y~D N E V'’
CR.ICES
5/6. 6/; 10/, 12/6.
20/ anoL 30/
e
(paton)
for aunt to stay here, with a man tp run
the place. I’ll get something to do in
Melbourne.”
Ann Martin had a look of furtive guilt.
Her weak eyes were watering.
“Jaspie, I couldn’t be happy in the city.”
Jasper said, kissing her: “I might never
get that far myself, so we won’t worry yet
a while. Come down and look at the clear-
ing, Mr. Hume. It takes in all of the flat.
It’s lucky the timber there was so light.
But there’s a lot to do yet.”
Musk Ridge that season returned nearly
£4OO. Jasper’s crop caught the early mar-
kets, and prices were better than he had
expected. There was in addition to the
potato money the results of Ann Martin’s
butter-making. With her small savings here
she bought poultry, and fenced a small
yard securely against the native-cats,
Jasper, between the times of his cropping
and the taking of outside labor, put up a
row of sties along thq hill. At the end of
the fifth year his cheque for pigs sold to
the dealer was £BO. He was making money,
too, on his contracts.
The effect of this unwonted prosperity
upon Ann Martin was curious. She acquired
an atmosphere of smug vainglory, in which
all kinds of little unsuspected mannerisms
came popping to the surface. Her vague-
ness remained pathetically in evidence,
however. Its influence upon a growing
social aspiration, and a suddenly deter-
mined effort at conversation, was frequently
absurd, and occasionally disastrous. Her
conceit of Jasper was enormous. It was
the one trait in her new nature against
which his anger or persuasions could not
prevail. In time he came to resign himself
to a patient disregard of her fulsome adver-
tising of himself, even if Guruwa continued
to smile good-naturedly.
When he was twenty-one Ann Martin
insisted they should have a new house.
Jasper, his own plans more strongly m
view than ever, agreed without demur. In
the spring of the year following they moved
into a five-roomed cottage, built of sawn
hardwood, with an iron roof and a neat
briek chimney, at the centre of the old
orchard. Ann Martin spent her first night
weeping weakly, in a sort of hysteria of
self-congratulation.
It was at this stage that Jasper’s connec-
tion with Tod Harris, in a business sense,
came definitely to an end. Tod was not
given to habits of thrift. He spent his
earnings as they came, greatly to Jasper’s
disgust, and in careless disregard of his
advice. Tod’s inclinations developed to-
wards the sporty and bombastic. He was 1 o
be found mostly at evening hanging about
the township, a cigarette miraculously
glued to his lower lip and his voice over-
flowing in egotistical argument.
Jasper’s irritation at this behavior was
heightened by the knowledge that Tod’s
prevailing prosperity was indubitably not
of his own earning. In all their contracts
both the wits and the energy had been
Jasper’s. Tod had come into the thing, as
it were, fortuitously, with results out of
all proportion to his share of endeavor.
Jasper, early aware of this, had chosen to
ignore it; partly out of good nature and
partly because Tod’s ability with the
accounts suited his own arithmetical short-
comings. Tod was exceedingly deft where
figures were concerned. This deftness came
in time to be suspected by Jasper, inasmuch
as he discovered, with the chance aid of
Hume, a number of irregularities which flat-
tered Tod’s ability without over-subscribing
to his honesty. Jasper made this a private
excuse for dropping Tod thereafter from
any share in his contracting. Outwardly he
gave the pretext that he was now able to
handle his work unaided. He decided that
he owed this much to Tod’s family. And.
in any case, he was far too busy to cry over
spilt milk. But he held the lesson grimly
to his heart.
Upon the other hand, as if to balance
this anger and disappointment, there was
the unassuming and entirely voluntary
assistance of Albert Beaument. It was
Albert who solved the difficulties of Jasper's
first ploughing by turning up at Musk
Ridge three moonlight nights in succession
with the disc plough and a four-horse team
from Grasslands quite unknown to old
Amos Beaument, who was on one of his
infrequent trips to the city. It was Albert
who loaned him cornsacks when his own
stock had run short; and Albert, again,
who silently appeared at his side when he
was struggling against the rising tide of the
bracken fern, or was wondering disconso-
lately how he might cope single-handed
with some double-handed task.
Albert’s first appearance had been within
a month of Hector Martin’s death. He
explained rather awkwardly to Jasper’s
naive questioning: “Lois thought I might
as well take a run over now and again, and
see if there was anything I could help with.”
Jasper said gratefully: “Lois! She’s a
good kid.”
It did not seem to occur to him that his
real thanks were due to Albert, nor was
Albert in the least put out by this over-
sight. He merely said, in his heavy, drawl-
ing voice: “She is, isn’t she? She made me
promise I’d come. But of course I’d have
come anyway, Jasper.”
“Please thank her, won’t you?” Jasper
insisted eagerly.
Albert’s slow, sound thinking and his
broad back and big, capable hands were of
infinite service in those early phases of
Jasper’s planning. It Was tremendously
reassuring to hear, out of the muck of his
weariness and discouragement, the steady
conquering strokes of Albert’s fernhook at
his elbow; or to look up and see his sturdy
figure trudging in the wake of the trailing
furrows. The very silence of this great,
stolid, plodding fellow was something Jas-
per could take hold of. It was a patient,
dogged, all-enduring, triumphing silence;
a silence that was courageous and implac-
cable to the very marrow of it; a silence
that somehow took shape in Jasper’s mind
as a suit of shining old armor which could
defy even death itself.
There were times, however, when Albert
unbent this silence to speech almost path-
etic in its directness. His growing intimacy
with Jasper emboldened him to unsuspected
confidences. These he would blurt out with-
out preliminary, with extraordinary disre-
gard of time pr place. They were with-
out exception to do with Amy and him-
self.
Amy, as Jasper had learned, was Miss
Sprott. He found it hard, somehow, to cre-
dit her prim austerity with so girlish and
homely a name. If he had thought of it at
all, before Albert’s tenderly uttered reve-
lation, he would have supposed something
like Selina or Hannah. Yet when he re-
called the episode at the schoolhouse he
thought that perhaps “Amy” fell not so
very far short of her then tearful unsophisti-
cation.
Rallying to repeated confidences, Jasper
reiterated his earlier advice that Albert and
his old teacher should marry in despite of
all obstacle.
“Why don’t you, Albert? Everybody says
you ought to run away or do something.”
But Albert, solemnly staring, would shake
his head at this.
“It’s too lafffe for that, don’t you see,
Jasper? Supposing Amy took ill, or. ...or
there’d be a baby coming to us....and me
without a regular job, likely enough, and
with no money saved?”
“God, yes!” said Jasper, moved to un-
usual emphasis. “Of course you’d be sick
without money. You’ve got to have money
to do any good anywhere. But, look here,
there’d be Grasslands to come to you.
They can’t keep that from you. They say
you can raise money on your prospects.”
Albert said heavily: “The old man’s
threatened to cut me right out of every-
thing if I clear out. He’d do that, too.
No, it isn’t any use.”
“Well, he’s got to die some time,” Jasper
encouraged, too disgusted for dissembling
further. “But it’s stiff for you and Miss
Sprott.”
“It’s worst for Amy,” Albert would in-
variably conclude.
CHAPTER XIV.
Tinfoil.
When Lois Beaument was fifteen she was
sent to a public school in Melbourne.
Arrangements were made for her to board
with some second cousins living in Mal-
vern. The name of these people was Marsh,
and they consisted of Pa Marsh; two
daughters, twenty-four and seventeen re-
spectively, Ivy and Carlotta; and a son.
Clarrie, just attained to his majority.
Lois described Pa Marsh as a large
and florid man, with a bald head and a
grocery business, who perpetually lamented
the loss of Ma Marsh, who had—as the
family expressed it—“passed away” during
an epidemic of influenza, the year before
Lois arrived. Ivy kept house in her mother’s
place, and Carlotta was beginning busi-
ness. Clarrie, a purposeless youth with
weak eyes and chin and an incipient mous-
tache, was credited with ambitions towards
literary fame. In the meantime he sat at a
table in a tiny room behind his father’s
shop, embroiled in perpetual figures.
They were a kind if prosaic family, and
welcomed Lois comfortably enough. She
was given a bedroom to herself, and the
piano in the sitting-room was allowed to her
use for music practice. Occasionally Pa
Marsh would emerge at evening from rumi-
nations upon treacle and breakfast foods
to inquire if he might help Lois with her
studies. On being assured that he could
not, it was his practice to sigh stertorously
and relapse into semi-unconsciousness
behind his newspaper, until the clock in
the hall claimed his hour for bed.
All this, and much more, Lois retailed in
a spasmodic correspondence with Jasper.
In the beginning Jasper was punctual in
reply to her letters. By degrees, however,
his early enthusiasm left him. He began to
excuse himself from writing, on the plea of
tiredness. The gaps between letters grew
steadily wider. In the end he would defer
reply for two or three months. After a
precarious existence over some two years
the correspondence ceased entirely. Jasper
was regretful but secretly relieved. He
hated letter writing. The effort to shape his
thoughts on paper was torture.
But his interest in Lois and all that she
was doing continued unabated. He eagerly
absorbed such news of her as he might
glean from Albert or others familiar with
her new existence. Often he was tempted
to take up his pen again, but inevitably
something intervened to prevent it. But now
and then he sent a message by Albert; as
when he heard of her success in the exami-
nation held at the Conservatorium, and on
the occasion of her twenty-first birthday.
Curiously enough he had been absent from
Guruwa on the two occasions when she had
returned on brief holiday; once when he
(Continued on next page.)


f* $
nra
IT
<###«
T***. V
til
l!i!
12
fi>_
Si
M
1
“€very picture paP
MS Zells a S for y
Stop that backache!
Look to your kidneys!
W HY be a martyr to backache? Nine times
out of ten it is quite unnecessary. Back-
ache, in common with headaches, dizziness and
urinary disorder, sciatica, rheumatism, lumbago,
stone in the kidney, gravel and dropsy, is frequently
due to weak kidney action. Don’t waste precious
time! So long as your kidneys allow impure blood to
circulate through the system, you cannot hope to get
well. Be quick to strengthen the kidney action by
using Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills; they will not fail.
When your kidneys are well again, take an occasional course of Doan’s to keep them healthy and active.
A MAN’S TESTIMONY.
Mr. F. W. Martin, Homer-street, Undercliffe, Sydney,
says: “About two years ago I took a course of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills for a severe attack of kidney disorder,
and they permanently cured me. Previous to using these
Pills I had a lot of trouble with my back, it was very stiff
and always aching. At times it was only with difficulty I
could get about, and if I stooped the agony to stand up
again was awful. I was also subject to dizzy attacks, and
felt constantly tired and languid. I heard of Doan's Backache
Kidney Pills through a friend, so got some at once, and
they suited me splendidly and restored me to perfect health.
I am still well, and have been since Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills cured me.”
TWO SYDNEY
PEOPLE
CURED OF
BACKACHE
AND KIDNEY
TROUBLE.
A WOMAN’S TESTIMONY.
Mrs. S. T. Burrows, 19 Springside-street, RJozelle,
Sydney, says: “In common with many others I have nothing
but good to say for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. Some
few years ago I was suffering a lot with my kidneys, and in
consequence was troubled with pains across the small of my
back and dizzy feelings, besides having no energy for any-
thing. One day my attention was called to Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills and in the hope that they might benefit
me, I got a bottle. After taking them for a few days my
health began to improve, and by the time I had used six
bottles I was completely cured. I am grateful to Doan’s
Pills for the good they have done me, and hope many will
profit by my experience and use this splendid remedy. I
never suffer with backache now, in fact feel splendid in
every way.”
è
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Sold by all Chemists and
Stores.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton Street,
Sydney.
was on a roads contract fifteen miles out,
and again when he had been away to the
Dargo high plains in search of winter stock
bargains. On return he found solace in his
disappointment by listening to descriptions
of her prettiness and generally-found favor.
Once Albert showed him a photograph of
her, taken against a background of thick
creeper. Her dark, curly hair was
about the oval of her face like a beautiful
blue smoke, and her eyes were staring
dreamily right into Jasper’s own as he
looked. There was some sort of white stuff
about her throat and bosom, giving a soft
nun-like impression; and her mouth was
lifted ever so slightly at the corners, as
though she were on the verge of the fun-
loving smile which Jasper so well remem-
bered.
He had frowned as he handed the photo-
graph back to Albert. He wanted somehow
to remember her as he had known her; as
she had looked when he talked with her at
Grasslands, sometimes on Sunday, when
he had escaped briefly from his everlasting
planning and plotting.
These talks between them had always
been privileged to frankness. It' often
occurred to Jasper later to wonder at the
undercurrent of seriousness which lay be-
hind Lois’s praise of his ambitions. From
the time when she was quite small there
had been revealed in her a quality of
sound judgment. Her sense of moral values
was extraordinarily pronounced for her
tender years. She detected with the clearest
vision human falsities which were subtle
enough to have escaped most adults, and
had frequently astonished Jasper by her
character reading. She particularly detested
unfairness and selfishness, and cruelty of any
kind stirred her to hot anger. She declared
her own worst failing to be intolerance.
“It’s a form of unfairness, too; that’s the
funny thing. And I hate people who don’t
play the game, as Mr. Hume says. And yet
I can’t allow, somehow, for the little sneak-
ing sins.”
“Which ones, Lois?” Jasper would ask
idly.
“Things that—that you find wrapped
around moneymaking, like tinfoil around a
stick of lolly. If the lolly’s dirty the tinfoil
hides it. But the dirt is there, just the
same.”
“Well—now you’ve gone all red, Lois.”
“Have I? I can if I want to, can’t I?”
There would come a faint gleam of her
meaning.
“That’s all fudge. Sharp business isn’t
dishonest. Look at all the big business
people, how they’re looked up to and petted.
They’ve got money, that’s why. And I
daresay they earned it.”
“Yes, they’ve got money. Bnt don’t you
see Oh, I don’t know they seem to
have lost such a lot in getting it.”
Jasper was sharply reminded of Lois’s
reference to tinfoil nearly three years after,
when Hume was suddenly recalled to Mel-
bourne. The missioner came with the news
to Musk Ridge one crisp autumn morning
when Jasper and Tod were at work on the
road boundary fence.
He said simply: “I’m to leave Guruwa at
the end of the w r eek. For ten years I’ve
been growing into the life and spirit of
the place, and now it’s all over.”
“Going to leave Guruwa!”
They stared at him blankly.
“They think I’m getting a bit old for this
gadding about the bush,” Hume said, sum-
moning a smile. “Perhaps I am. But I
wish they had never discovered it. I’m
going to be very busy, packing and one
thing and another, so I’ve slipped out to
tell you, and to say good-bye.”
“I can’t believe it,” Jasper stammered.
Suddenly he realised the staunch friendship
this man had given over those ten years
of his missioning, and a sense of desolation
made his eyes fill. “It won’t be the same
place without you.”
Hume halted and put a hand on Jasper’s
shoulder. His eyes and voice were all at
once wistful.
“Do you know I’ve always been jtist the
least bit. anxious about you? There’s fine
material in you. Don’t let your ambitions
trick you.”
“How?”
“It’s not easy to say. I expect that, be-
cause I’m going away from you, I’m unduly
critical of your happiness. I want to see
you get on in life, but I would choose
for you even complete material failure rather
than a success that would stain your fine-
ness.”
Jasper said slowly: “It’s a bit queer, some-
how, isn’t it, that you should say that—
to me, I mean? Lois was always hinting at
something or other; but, if you ask me, I
don’t believe she knew herself exactly
what sense there was to it.”
“Jasper, I wonder if you’d care to tell
me what she said?”
“Lord, why should I mind?” said Jasper.
“I’ve had a hard upbringing, Mr. Hume
no one knows more about that than you.
Why shouldn’t I make all the money I can?
Why tell me I’m getting stuck all over
with tinfoil?”
“Tinfoil? Did she say that?” Hume ex-
claimed. He nodded in a pleased fashion.
“Well, but we’re ever so much better with-
out the bother of it. Draughts won’t trouble
us if there’s plenty of ventilation.”
“I wish you’d say just what you mean,
Mr. Hume.”
“Then I will. I’ll give you an instance of
the kind of thing that I susoect was in Lois’s
mind. Jasper, you did pretty well out of
your contract with Johnson, didn’t you?”
Jasper reddened. His eyes grew defiant.
“Yes, I did. I expected to. It was pretty
stiff work while it lasted.”
“Johnson’s been telling people that you
overreached him. I don’t know just what
he meant. I didn’t inquire. Do you know
what he meant?”
“I carried out the conditions of the con-
tract,” said Jasper. “I never shirked one
detail of it. What more did he want?”
Hume sighed, but immediately brightened.
He even smiled. “It ought to teach him a
lesson. I expect it will. But you see what
Lois No; that’s mean of me. You see
what I meant, don’t you? You’ll forgive
me for treading on your corns —the last
time I shall see you, too, for who knows
how long?—and here I’ve been preaching at
you!”
“That’s all right,” Jasper told him awk-
wardly.
“Well, then, you shall have just a little
more of it. I’ll make the most of a parting
privilege. There’s just the danger, you see,
that you’ll get a wrong nerspective of money
and money’s worth. It’s a common fault
enough; so you won’t lack for company if
you do. The question is, is the company
worth while? If you ever have to answer
it. I’m pretty sure you’ll do it with a shake
of the head. The real success this life
offers is the respect and affection of our
fellows. Now shake hands.”
“Willingly,” Jasper said.
But he was secretly amused at Hume’s
earnestness. It was all very well to draw
a hard and fast line, but quite another to
be able to stick to it. Life, as he knew it,
was scarcely as simple as that. But Hume
was a good chap. He meant well.
He dreamed of Lois that night. They
were down among the ferns, and the blade
of his hook kept crumpling. She was laugh-
ing at his discovery that the blade was made
of tinfoil. A ridiculous dream.
(To be continued.)
The Monastery.
And though you call me I shall not
Return again, for I shall be
Where such as you are long forgot
’Mid Death’s austere fraternity.
Ah yet, creep closer, Heart o’ Mine!
The room, night-circled, seems a cup
Wherein, like dim and dreadful wine,
The wave of darkness surges up.
How far, how very far away,
Beyond the sieging shadow, seems
The splendor that was yesterday,
A cameo of carven dreams.
How dim, how distant, now they gleam,
The dawns that shall not come again;
Their wild chance-magic like a dream
Is dying in my darkened brain.
There is a bell that rings and rings,
So low. so strange—l never heard
Such drifting sweetness, tuned to strings
Life’s pain and passion ne’er have stirred.
It calls and calls, and this I know,
When the still dawn begins to be,
That which erstwhile was I shall gO
To seek that hidden monast’ry.
I think there will be cedars there,
And yew, beside the quiet gates—
And “Peace” above the portal where
The abbot of the order waits
To lay his benison upon
The calm-eyed brethren, tranquilly
Through quiet cloisters pacing on
To gardens of no memory.
And there where leaves are murmuring
’Neath boughs beyond life’s broken net,
Even your lips that burn and cling
I shall forget, forget, forget!
And though you call me, yet shall I
Not ev’en for love’s sake raise my head
Where, ’mid white poppies, paces by
The blind old abbot of the dead.
And yet and yet who is it knows
What passion haunts the sphinx of things?
Maybe there is a road that goes
Far past Death’s bell that rings and rings
Whereon who lists to pay the price—
Ah ! Heart o’ Mine, ’twere surely well! —
Shall find love’s lonely paradise
Beyond the gates of Heaven and Hell.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.
The Tree and the Ship.
When I was very small and young
They whispered me,
With awed, white praying hands outflung:
“God made the tree!”
God made the tree!
O lovely thing!
O lovely thing! An ecstasy
Of light and shade,
Of slim arched boughs,
Gold-green, green-gold,
To catch and hold
The murmuring
Of bird and bee!
A miracle of sheer delight,
With bursting bloom, rose-red and white!
God made the tree!
I saw a ship.
Slender and proud !
I saw a ship drift like a moving cloud,
Pearl-pale
And delicate.
With wind-filled sail,
And pencilled mast.
I saw a dreaming ship go past.
I saw her gently rise and dip—
O beautiful!
O beautiful!
Man made the ship!
Hear this! Much rather would Ibe
A man who makes a ship than God
Who makes a tree!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


!
Mi
,iiN
r
,1
US'
/ I
~i fSßr§3gHmk % " - 1
:
■2^wP P* '
*
fii
HI
- j' a
fcg^Ej
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in atock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD..
Queensland Agents—HOLMES X CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—l)3-103 Featherston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Office— “ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne
South Australian Amenta: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.j Adelaide, B.A.
R
THE CREDIT OF TASMANIA
is undoubted and
THE MERCURY
A CREDIT TO TASMANIA
“ Mei ' C " , n is the only Metropolitan News-
!n,i er + ln the .. St ' ate - Its news services, articles
and typography are unexcelled in Australia.
the mercury
Covers the Whole State,
and its circulation greatly exceeds the combined
figures of the other dailies in Tasmania.
£ e i i , Vere /l by fast motor-cars, it reaches Laun-
ceston (121 miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
n intermediate towns before breakfast.
ESTABLISHED 1854.
PRICE ljd.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 228
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
The Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South Australia,
and is Read by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation in
Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny of Net Sales
invited.
ALL THE NEWS AND ALL THE
ADVERTISEMENTS.
In 1927 average size of “THE ADVERTISER,”
26 pages of 8 columns (each inch deep)
Space occupied by advertisements averaged
16£ pages daily, or a Total of
988,712 INCHES IN THE YEAR.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agances of
Messrs. Gordon and Goteh, price l£d.
Head Offices:
J. L. Bonython & Co.,
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. L, WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone MA 3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
Is logically the first big daily to select in Queensland for any advertising
campaign. It gets results!
It is always bright and is progressive to a degree.
And its net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to
be greater than that of any other daily in Queensland. Its companion
journal is
THE SUNDAY MAIL
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine. These two journals
give a ‘‘cover’- in Queensland that is second to none. For rates and
other particulars, please apply to:—
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288*294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE,
Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Restful, quiet and cool—open to the Summer Sea Breezes. Delightfully situated with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort—Excellent Cuisine and Service.
Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Summer Tariff fijom 5 guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS—DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip front- Citv fcv Ferry or Motor.
RESERVATIONS: Y 3012 (4 lines).
For headache or a ‘liver,’
For nerves and stomach ills,
For bile and indigestion,
Rely on
é
ê
TWO AT NIGHT
PUT YOU RIGHT
People with an active liver never have
these complaints. You, too, can avoid
them by taking Cockle’s Pills occasion-
ally to ensure the regular working of
your own system. They overcome
constipation, they keep the liver active
and ensure complete cleansing away
of all surplus bile which undermines
the health and causes that tired, de-
pressed feeling. Take Cockle’s Pills
you will need no other tonic.
Get a box to-day without fail!
Small pill, easy to take. Of all chemists
and stores 1/6 a box.
JAMES COCKLE & CO., LTD., LONDON.
1/KEEP
YOUR
CRIP
ON
lEALTH
if*
WITHOUT health you lose a
great deal of interest in life,
your ambitions flag and
achievement becomes increas-
ingly difficult. You feel slack.
Constipation is the cause of
most of the bad health these
days. People suffer headaches,
biliousness, indigestion with-
out thinking that the cause is
constipation—an evil which
may develop into something of
a serious nature if care is not
taken.
Beecham’s Pills —that tried
and trusted remedy—possess
in a remarkable measure the
power to assist the stomach,
liver and bowels to work in
harmony and so to conquer
constipation.
If you are troubled by this most
serious complaint remember
that relief can be speedily and
safely effected and
health restored by
taking
The remedy you need for Side Headache,
Constipation, Biliousness , Indigestion,
Disordered Stomach and Liver.
THERE IS ONLY ONE
Motor boat enthusiasts demand
the best in marine engine equip'
ment. That is why they use
Kermath Marine Engines. And
that, too, is the reason why over
70% of the leading boat*builders
of the world install Kermath
Marine Engines— I '\ Kermath
always runs.”
All parts Standard and Inter*
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—-impulse coupling.
I
3 to 150 H. P.
1 to 6 cylinders II
4-cycle Engine* J|
HALL BROS., LTD.
Careening Cove
(Foot of Willoughby St.J
Milton’s Point
North Sidney, N.S.W.
KERMATH
Manufacturing
Company
Detroit, Mich.
U. S. A.
Cable Address
Kermath
ë
Bnqines
ē
9 JV
.JV
<*>
FOR 86 YEARS
“ The Examiner” has been the trusted Friend of the Family
in Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in
Tasmania, and is still the Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS MR. V. W. MARGETTS
Pty. Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
LAUNCESTON.
122 Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE
IR. W. G, DOUGAN,
701 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
X
0
0°
s®
p
s®
1*
At®*>
.••* .♦*'* .••*,
.• VhCi**
.■■■■*%?


e
You-
ISrax fidentU-
aud-
f r f \
FINE
sieur|!fc
%
(f
inPGRia L! H sriTilTC
& ®6stSni) Clubs
Joha'DewaroSons li
Distillers PERTHj[ScoHandULONDOi
PRODUCE OF
lm,uo u«8i» rut tupcnvisio* or tm£ cohmo
SCOTCH WHISKY
Qhe Best of Good Spirits
