

4«fM
p SiW
V >'k
■ •: -
& V ' ' 1
mmmmm
■ :
ff ■■ '* .
-
% ■ . • : ■ l . ■ .
a>v& ' .•■■■■.'•■• • *
«... - ■ k s , . * « *
mm
>Pk' ' ■ ■ :-: ’ 1
.
§pk ’ ' ; ' ' : .- , , ' > ' $
mm * * -
Stir ' V-s S-- ' - ■ -\A
B JP •■ •■ ’
kjf * ‘ ' ‘ • ' ' ' ' ■’ •
;
- t •
, ~ , ’
. t, ~ ...
.-■M
. <S/k
,
■
' ?
%:
, A' ■
1 v :
'• ,A o
If, , • ; ' ; . ‘ >.
m . v s
i§
-■ -■ j,.
s:'
■.
••
:..Js.\'- : s- . . '•>' ••■'• k/.;s
■
>.s^s;s
■S
'
. . «
k ! leg
B ■ §■
s •«!
• v ■ • ‘
l&.'?«k.;T:KrS'r:.: i ’ ,r. ; ; S' ,
v >'> * ■,
B r . : sB ■: B . s • v .V -
P
m-rft
*Aa " -i* - *
Bil ' ! '
A AS ‘ ,
■Ur ’ ■• i’> .? ' ' ' k , S. i
• ■ '
sk
%&sJss&Ss9m£s2 . :z '
- ■ k :
-
,B k, "-:B'k' ,k;k:'k . sskßk S/-'v,k ■ „
.
. *-'••' k. ■■>'
Af>‘
f S "■;
#
ffioh Qualify".
mm
‘
; •••£ ■:■• 1 - : ■
SupevQaaliky
6
-
mmm
■
a
■■l*l
} vvV■■ %'M * - •>' -
!■»*
*» "'" ’’ v''S 'V Jf.i
The Bulletin
/deAvtce oftejvt. vw (Hxrfilibo J’vi&nA
Vol. 50.—N0. 2574.
Wednesday, June 12, 1929.
Price 6d.
ftesristered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


TH E 1929 LIBRARY CATALOGUE is
4 now ready, and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD..
424-426 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
“I've made a Garden of Delight,”
Where all is beautiful and bright
With perfumed flowers of every hue,
Which for perfection needs but you.
I’ve built a charming cottage there
To shelter you from every care.
For bronchial ailments to assure
I’ve Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
kl
Send this S.B. Advt. for this Book:
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.” It is Free!
STOTT'S, lt)0 Russell St., Melbourne.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
WP
**
STAMMERING AND STUTTERING
CAN BE CURED IN YOUR OWN HOME
Send TO-DAY for particulars of “Perfect Speech” and copies of letters from
those who have been cured. Philip O’Bryen Hoare, M.8.1.M.5c. (London) (The
Stammerers’ Friend), Specialist in Public Speaking and the Cure of Stammering
and Stuttering.
ADDRESS:
56 BRISBANE ARCADE, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
P.O. Box 1142 P.
When yoti'***W§ljl
buy Underwear-
BUY
pure wool
and best!
sdf
ALSO
Buy and Wear
WOLSEY
LUSTRAL
Art Silk Underwear
and Hosiery.
WOLSEY
SPORTSMAN
Knitted Outerwear
for
Women; Pullovers.
Pure Wool Stockings
for Women, Half Hose
for Men, and f-Hose
and Socks for Children
OR health, for comfort,
r for service you must
wear Wolsey Pure Wool
Underwear. It protects you
against all climatic changes.
It washes beautifully without
shrinking or losing its shape,
and gives years of satisfactory
service. Ask to see Wolsey
P ure Wool Under wear to-day.
WOLSEY
PURE WOOL UNDERWEAR
Made in England by
WOLSEY LTD:, LEICESTER.
WOLSEY LTD.,
316, Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE
FOR
ARCHITECTS, A.RTiSTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
i Ik
mmrmH
MADE
Perfection
ritsh: rubber.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
vnd New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where-they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can bo obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain no cocaine or other poisonous drug. Suited for old and young. For Coughs.
Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis, Influenza.
SOB
vJUj
)
*«O*CA». «HVTn.'«IMSv.
p *aMoui»Macwm voksx-
"* *5051 FOWUU
6AM; ARO PVAASMIT GUM
»KTuefncw«wH
oumcwe.
ARO
DSON
What the Medical World says:-—The Lancet:
“Proved to be as effective bactericidally as is
creosote.” THIS REPORT FROM THE “LAN-
CET” LABORATORY IS UNDOUBTED EVIDENCE
of the VALUE OF EUMENTHOL JUJUBES as an
ANTISEPTIC.
I/O a Tin.
Sold at Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers; or
Post Free from the Sole Manufacturers—
Hudson’s Eumenthol Co. Ltd., Sydney,
on receipt ot 1/6 in stamps of any ProvuK*
The Red Page
Michael Eyquem de Montaigne
Who wants to hear the garrulous old men
Telling the tale of their illustrious youth
And long-forgotten prowess? Who, again,
Wishes to have them quoting bitter truth
Anent the follies of hot blood, forsooth,
Their own blood turning cold? Let them be
still—
The wisdom of the greybeards, long-of-
tooth,
Is wisdom of dust and death, say what
you will.
They do not now remember what thoughts till
Impatiently our hearts. All said and done.
No man can judge whether the numbing chill
Of years is wiser than a kiss of the sun
Hot in our veins, op whether strength that’s
gone
Were mightier than strength now. Their
times arc past.
They have forgotten much. But there was one
Who, knowing age had crept on him at last,
Regretfed not that youth had sped so fast
Nor called his youth a fool (and all youth
so) ;
Neither did he believe it overcast
The later years and shamed them with its
show.
Montaigne, accept my homage. Still, you go
About your fathers lands, setting aright
The broken bough, tlic crumbling wall.
Although
These things have long since fallen into
night
I see them plainly in the crystal ligfyt
That gleams from books; and I am also
shown
Yourself by wizardy of printed sight:
Now mounted for your travels: now alone
In contemplation: now beside a throne
At conference witli ministers in cares
As heavy as kingdoms : now within your own
Inherited house, directing its affairs.
( R. D. Fitzgerald, in “To Meet the Sun,"
just published by Angus and Robertson.)
The New Countries
In his editorial introduction to The New
Countries (Cape; Dymocks) Hector Bolitho
writes half a dozen pages on the test that
the “new countries” are producing some-
thing worthy of the older countries’ atten-
tion Resides meat and wool. Obviously
what follows is his attempt to substantiate
that. It is futile to try to shirk this respon-
sibility by saying at the close of the flourish-
ing fanfare that the book is merely a private
collection, made according to personal taste
and prejudice. The trumpets have blared
out this sort of call: “Olive Schreiner was
the first rare genius to put the soul of the
colonies into a story.” Also they have
sounded: “The time has come.... when we
might make a tally and mention the
names of Olive Schreiner, Katharine Mans-
field, Henry Lawson, Gilbert Murray, Sarah
Gertrude Millin, Pauline Smith, Roy Camp-
bell and Bliss Carman.”
Would Mr. Bolitho be annoyed if a
reviewer called him a fool? No doubt he
would; but he patently would be a fool if,
after thus implying that his “new countries”
were producing works of genius, he deliber-
ately gathered from greatness and medi-
ocrity. His book permits the alternative
that he is unqualified for the job, and this
gets plenty of support from his selections
and also from the fact that, after saying that
“next to Canada, South Africa is the
richest in successful writers,” he confesses
he knows less about Canadian writers than
those of the other Dominions. In fact,
though he knows Canada to be the greatest,
he has to rely almost entirely upon a Cana-
dian for the selections from that country’s
writers; selections which, by the way, pro-
vide the worst line in the book.
Or the wild heart of October raves,
and include, among other works of “rare
genius,” such stuff as follows:
DAWN.
The immortal spirit hath no bars
To circumscribe its dwelling place;
My soul hath pastured with the stars
Upon the meadow-lands of space.
My mind and ear at times have caught,
From realms beyond our mortal reach,
The utterance of Eternal Thought
Of which all nature is the speech.
And high above the seas and lands,
On peaks just tipped with morning light,
My dauntless spirit mutely stands
With eagle wings outspread for flight.
Wherein the poet’s soul, after ch,ewing
grass with the stars, “upon the meadow-
lands of space,” becomes marvellously a
bird. At least two other verses as thought-
clumsy and ordinary as that glitter in the
Canadian section, which holds high among
its better things a dialect recitation that
has aii underlying melody of unusual beauty
and folk-piece simplicity.
Maoriland has the same mixture of good
work and banality; nothing more banal than
the editor’s own lines:—
From my high window I can see
One hundred steps,
And there the joiner’s daughter plays
With a round vermilion ball.
It bounces, and its dull thud is the only sound,
Save the ci;oak of crows in the chestnuts,
And the far-away murmur of an unseen train.
Which is about as wretched stuff as verse
can be. It is only fair to the editor and
his country to say that the Maoriland sec-
tion, which includes work of Jessie Mackay,
Eileen Duggan and Katharine Mansfield,
hasn’t anything that is not a little closer
to literature than those “one hundred steps,”
the “round vermilion ball” and the “croak
of the crows in the chestnuts.”
South Africa gets off comparatively
lightly, chiefly because Mr. Bolitho allows
the prose of Pauline Smith and Sarah
Gertrude Millin to fill out most of his
space. However, “rare genius” soars once
on poetic wings (it is called “The Watch-
maker”) :
Ringed with his host, the timepiece-deity
Moves among his moods mechanical unmoved,
Possessing and possessed of the loud myriads
That throng his circled and encircling sky:
Rather than seeing with his nacreous eyes
Fetling and knowing the many moonfaced presences
With whom the heavens of his heaven are ranged,
The Old Man sits, and focuses
Upon such ones as dare grow tired,
Poking and polishing, till adulation
Becomes their second nature, and their voices
Dither incessantly within unvaulted space.
That is not all of it, but enough.
And so we come to Australia, and the
same mixture of good and dreadful. Per-
haps the book’s most tragic features are
(1) the superior work which many of the
inclusions shut out; (2) the fact that pretty
well every writer represented has done
better work than that selected; (3) the
fact that only a veiy meagre percentage
of the selections are peculiarly “colonial”
(e.g., in the Australian section Henry
Lawson’s sketch is the only thing that could
not have been written outside Australia);
(4) the wanton abuse of a grand opportunity
to" do for Dominion literature a service that
would have excused an editor for doing
botch work for the rest of his life. The
following is not by very much the worst of
the Australian section: —
I will go find me a spear
of wild-goose feather wrought
and fashion the ears of a hare
to a parchment of skin
and pray to the ewes of thought
to let down their milk.
From that Yeats-and-sarsaparilla, however,
the editor’s taste can leap 20 miles at a
bound to fasten on to the poetry of Geoffrej'
Cumine’s swaggering “Ancestor”:—
And I see him dancing a rigadoon,
Springing with arms akimbo—
The ruffled, cynical, suave buffoon,
Three hundred years in limbo.
There’s the rasp, on the boards,
Of his feet, to the chords,
The russle of lissom Ferrara swords;
Snapping of fingers like castanets,
Swirling mustaehios, pistolets,
Claret in pewters, lemons in nets
And the cries of “Brava, Bimbo!”
Practically every word a rollicking delight !
But that quality is so rare that no one of
any discernment in Mr. Bolitho’s “new
countries” is likely to take the book at all
seriously. If dwellers in the “old countries,”
including the Prince of Wales, to whom
the book is dedicated, care to accept it as
any more representative of Dominion litera-
ture than a handful of non-indigenous nuts,
that will merely go to prove that it is never
too late for an urgent young man to flourish
the thimble and the ancient pea.
A Great Opportunity
Owing to the fact that most daily news-
papers are interested parties, or friends of
interested parties, Or have advertisers who
are interested parties, it is extremely diffi-
cult to get at the truth about broadcasting.
Inspired statements appear regularly in one
or two newspapers concerning the wonderful
merit of Australian broadcasting pro-
grammes. Only the other day I read that
the Australian programme “on the air”
was the best in the world! The fact is
that Australia, and especially New South
Wales, is tremendously behind England and
America in broadcasting.
On the bookstalls a little paper called
the Listener can be had; it is published by
the British Broadcasting Corporation and is
an official resume of that body’s activities and
intended programmes. Anyone wishing to
know where we stand in broadcasting has
merely t 6 buy a copy of this journal and
read for himself. The programme for the
week ending March 16, for instance, in-
cluded a pianoforte recital by Pouishnoff;
a Bach cantata; educative talks on histoiy,
natural history, music, literature and other
interesting subjects; a chamber music con-
cert; health talks by leading English medi-
cal men; a repertory play; symphony con-
certs; violin recital by Godowsky; the
Bach St. John’s Passion; a complete opera
by the British National Opera Company,
and many other things of profit and interest.
It seems that in Australia we look upon
broadcasting as a mild form of amusement.
There appears to have been no effort to
make it a power for good in the land; no
effort to make it an educative machine;
no inclination to regard it as anything but
a money-making concern. I do not know
that one can blame the management; since
it is purely a money-making concern, I fail
to see why it should lose a chance of big
dividends in the doubtful financial business
of raising the standard of public culture.
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTlSlNG”—expressing the Policy which has built Anthony Horderns.
Anthony Horderns
Present Unrivalled Values in
Music Roll Cabinets
These are a few examples typical of our very extensive range , which gives you the
opportunity to select the design which ivill be most effective with your own furnishing
scheme. Each cabinet is thoroughly well made, and you will find that in every)
instance Anthony Horderns’ ‘‘Famous Low Prices” apply.
tel
tu
.ly
$
I
3@
V/
&
Roll Cabinet, £l3/15/-
This Cabinet has double Lead Light Doors, and three
adjustable shelves. It is soundly built of selected
Maple, and finished in either Walnut or Rosewood
color. Height 52 inches, width 39 inches, depth 15
inches. Price £l3/15/-
#
Maple Cabinet, £ll/10/-
The “Woodland” Roll Cabinet is 49 inches high, 42
inches wide and 1 5 inches deep. It has double Lead
Light Doors, and three fixed shelves. Made of
selected Maple and finished in either Rosewood or
Walnut shade. Price £ll/10/-
Dept.—Ground Floor. Free delivery City and Suburbs only.
OUR DEPOSIT-PURCHASE SYSTEM.
When .buying these goods, or any others, you can leave a
deposit and pay the balance at your convenience. When final
-payments are made the goods are delivered in the usual xoay.
There is no interest or extra charge involved.
In Maple,
£7/5/-
Shown at left. Roll
Cabinet, with Lead Light
Doors and three fixed
shelves. Height, 47
inches; width, 22 inches;
depth, 15 inches. In
Maple, of Rosewood or
Walnut finish. £7/5/-
Cabinet,
£6/176
Roll Cabinet shown at
right is of Maple, fin-
ished in Walnut or
Rosewood color. Has
three fixed shelves, 1 3in.
x 2 I in., x 1 7in. deep.
Price £6/17/6
y
s
Dept.—Ground Floor; de-
livered free City or Suburbs
only.
Our Optical Service
Why be troubled, with defective eyesight? At Anthony
Horderns’ there is an expert Optometrist who will examine
your eyes and will tell you candidly whether or not you need
glasses. If you need glasses, we will supply them, and
guarantee complete satisfaction —and you will find our prices
extremely moderate. We also have a complete stock of
Ready-to-Wear Glasses. Prices range from 3/-, in solid Nickel
Frames, to 1 3/6, in the best-quality Rolled Gold. Cases extra.
Oculists’ prescriptions and repairs promptly executed at
reasonable charges.
We also stock a full range of Zeiss and other Field Glasses,
Binoculars, Telescopes, Reading Glasses, etc.
/ mthow Horderns'
Telephone 1V124Q1
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.


The Greater MUDS©
IESSIEX?Je ChuHena
/.
'■i
■:'c /
i r
■i V
" 'X
» . .V!
-O':/
V'*i -. . . . . .
'*& •‘•Sly ; '•*/ ~<‘ \ 1 • -
f<' '.'■ *,\ • > ’
• *' V > , V. : V
~T'■ ■ - . XV', - 4 ‘ - j'/ •’ • ,' i-'■. V* V
• AW., ■ ... ■• • , V- -4 v —
... v ' ■/»'::■ C ~..
■-■ -•'; •'' r O - - ', :.4 ;' > ■;: ...
r -
—• - *
V
w
U'/V
iTSf
A
Q
r-.
!!!!!««iii
.J- ." ,, ii
0
m
p.
ppi
m
jr-
IN
pt
C-t
J'V
There is a model here fo
r you
With 21 body styles to select from,
you are sure to find a model exactly
suited to your special needs in the
Greater Hudson and Essex the
Challenger. In beauty, performance,
economy and reliability, these two new
Super-sixes match cars of far higher
price.
But you must see them to appreciate
them. Go to your Hudson-Essex
dealer and inspect them yourself.
Drive them over any roads in any
weather. Then you will agree that
the Greater Hudson and Essex the
Challenger are the greatest values that
Motordom has to offer.
dsf
ESSEX PRICES AT SYDNEY.
5 Balloon Tyres Standard Equipment.
Tourer (Australian Body) . . . .
Standard Sedan (Australian Body)
Standard Sedan (Imported Body)
Coupe (Imported Body)
Town Sedan (Imported body, with bumper bars)
HUDSON PRICES AT SYDNEY.
5 Balloon Tyres Standard Equipment.
Hudson—l22in. Wheelbase.
Coupe (Imported Body) . . . . , £535
Standard Sedan (Imported Body) . . . . 535
Landau Sedan (Imported Body) . . . # 610
Tourer (Imported Body) . . . . . . ’ ggg
Town Sedan (Imported Body) . . . . t 580
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
MOTORS LIMITED.,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
AUTOS LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.


For Any Travel
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
-XU L
The accredited Agents of all Steam
Ship Lines. Their expert guidance and
special facilities cost you nothing.
TO EUROPE 1930
Apply now for accommodation, as
berthing plans for all steamers are open.
WINTER TOURS
To Queensland, Bali, Java, Siam,
japan, Hawaii, Malaya, Sumatra, Indo-
China (Saigon, Pnom-Penh, Angkor).
STEAMER EXCURSIONS
Cairns, South Sea Islands, Fiji, Tahiti,
Honolulu, Ceylon, Java, Japan and
Manila, etc.
COOKS’ TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
Are the safest and most convenient
means of carrying funds.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street,
ADELAIDE:
49 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Fia«e.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
What has gone before is no concern of
mine. But what is going to happen in the
future is a very intimate concern of mine
and of everybody who reads these lines. The
Federal Government is calling for tenders
from persons who think they are capable of
providing suitable broadcasting programmes.
I should like to see a board created immedi-
ately consisting of a prominent musician,
a university Professor of Arts, a prominent
scientist and one or two other useful people
A\ r hose word should be final in most matters.
There is a priceless opportunity to raise
the standard of culture in this country by
means of broadcasting. The cry of “give
the people what they Avant” is the cry of
a feeble Government Avith no sense of
leadership. Does anyone think that the
British Broadcasting Corporation would
have reached the standard it has if it had
given the people Avhat they wanted? The
mob mind has to be led; it will never rise
from the ruck unless helped out. It will
ahvays demand the easy, pleasant road in
preference to the difficult, thoughtful one.
What this country needs more than any-
thing else is a strong man who will give
the people what is good for them, and Avho
has the foresight to treat our intellectual
and moral illnesses.
Because they are supposed to 'Svant it”
Australians are given a hundred things,
including jazz and sloppy sentimental bal-
lads instead of virile intelligent music.
Surely it is time we cut away from this
Aveak position. For Heaven’s sake let us
seize this opportunity to do something
culturally for Australia. Education is abso-
lutely the only method by Avhich one can
raise the moral tone and intellect of any
nation. The British Broadcasting Corpora-
tion has 5072 schools on its register and
the Education Department is in direct and
regular contact with half of them. In the
past tAvo years, foreign observers have been
hurrying to England to find out more about
this school broadcasting and its educational
achievements. Russia and Germany have
done a lot in this work, and the Listener
asserts that Mexico has “adopted broad-
casting as the means par excellence for
supplying a cultural background to children
and young people brought up in homes
hardly free from the tradition of illiteracy.”
Also, Spain, Sweden, Holland, Austria and
Hungary have complete systems of school
broadcasting.
MIKE.
Our Necessary Novels
Feeling that we have already let slip many
decades of interesting, varied life in Aus-
tralia without finding expression for them,
I have always valued Louis Stone’s pioneer-
ing work towards the interpretation of
Sydney in his two vivid novels, “Jonah”
and “Betty Wayside.” Norman Lindsay
(R.P. 8/5/’29) has thanked him adequately,
stated his achievement, and wished that the
Avork had not stopped where it did. It is
such articles as Norman Lindsay’s that
will make possible the work of Louis Stone
and of his successors. Phrases in it need to
be read and used a hundred times. Speak-
ing of Stone’s novels, Norman Lindsay
writes:—
There for the first time types idiosyricratically
Australian moved through Sydney streets, and those
streets were brilliantly alive with crowds of people.
If a dozen novels of their quality had been circulat-
ing in England since Jonah was begot, the coming
Australian novelist would not have quite such a
nuisance of a job before him.... Readers would
have already travelled through the cities of his
creations, and be aware of what skies and aspira-
tions they lived under. Stone has the “locality”
faculty highly developed; his streets and peoples
are instantly vitalised and known at a glance.
Every tvord of that is so important that
it demands this repetition. Most readers
here are at home in English country-
houses and London streets and interiors,
while they are embarrassed by the mere
mention of an Australian place in town
or country. That is because a mere men-
tion is not enough, and yet the Australian
writer is often frightened of doing more
than mention a place; he is always being
warned against the use of local color.
The statement that Louis Stone is to
be praised for this very “locality” faculty
ought to clear the air considerably. Nobody
chides Hardy for being true to his Wessex
locality; nor GalsAvorthy for knowing how
to describe a London street. Let us now
praise Paul Wenz for his vivid pictures of
a boundary-rider’s hut near the Darling,
Louis Stone for his slum streets and his
harbor pictures, Dowell O’Reilly for the
vignettes of Sydney scenes scattered through
his letters and stories. Let us praise them;
they are giving us much that is very diffi-
cult to give for the first time, they are
also saving the coming Australian novelists
from having the worst “nuisance of a job
before them.” They and others have begun
to do what Norman Lindsay declares to
be necessary. “The novelist,” he writes,
“can make Australia not only a place worth
Irving in, but a place Avhere life exists.”
NETTIE PALMER.
Catfish, Writers, etc.
With a friendliness and geniality almost
inimical to discussion. Mrs. A. B. Crowther
(R.P. 5/6/’29) calls me a catfish. I feel
sure that she will be duly affected when I
thank her from the depth of my heart and
refrain from calling her a seahorse. Her
arguments, with the rest advanced against
my criticism of a reading evening of the
Fellowship of Writers and the English
Association. I will answer further down.
Steele Rudd, also in the lists against ine,
scarcely calls for an answer. .If he only
knew how I respect him personally and how
grateful I am to him for many a gusty laugh,
the bitterness of his feelings, quickened
apparently by an idle flippancy of mine,
might turn to honey. I must say, however,
that the innuendo in his assertion that he
had heard I would be present at the meet-
ing to "sentence the Fellowship to damna-
tion” is quite unworthy of its author. It
is so foreign to the goodfellowship of Steele
Rudd that it must be spurious. The rest
of his remarks answer themselves with a
cruelty that is embarrassing to dwell upon.
My other antagonist—l feel like a pygmy
juggling a whirl of giants—is Professor
Brereton, president of the Fellowship. He,
like Mrs. Crowther, enjoys listening to a
writer reading his own works. Mrs. Crow-
ther adds the important qualification, -pro-
vided he reads well; and so I can dismiss
her argument by merely remarking that
when poets do not read well they do not
comply with that proviso. Professor Brere-
ton, however, would rather hear “a man of
letters read his own work, however badly,
than hear another man read it, however
well.” The reason for this extraordinary
preference is that the “reading will illumi-
nate his purpose and his technique.” Rod
Quinn’s reading, for example, gives the
“manner in which his verse comes, as he
composes it, to his mental ear.” Well, if
it does (though it doesn’t), who will con-
tend that whilst winning such specious
knowledge he is enjoying poetry as poetry?
He is simply toying with the strings and
pulleys of art. For how poetry comes to
the poet has nothing whatever to do with
how it comes tp the listener. Professor
Brereton, too, as a practised verse-maker
and an expert in literature, knows well
enough that poetry does not come in this '
free fashion at all; Wilde’s experience with
the comma is not a great exaggeration;
there is in it a lot of the truth of general
groaning and blotting, patching and scratch-
ing.
And, after all. what a hollow belief it
is that it is preferable to hear a man of
letters x’ead his own work, however badly,
than hear another read it, however well!
It is as logical to prefer listening to a song-
composer sing his own songs. “The music
of a song,” said one of the greatest art
critics and a great master of English, “may
not be so essential to its influence as the
meaning of the words, yet if the music be
given at all, it must be right, or its discord
will spoil the words; and it would be better,
of the two, that the words should be indis-
tinct than the notes false.” But, then,
Ruskin listened for Art, rather than for the
creaking of her shoulder-knot. Longfellow,
too, in that hackneyed verse in which he
makes a rhymed request for someone to
read poetry aloud to him, takes care to
put it,
And lend to the rhyme of the poet
The beauty of thy voice,
not the awkwardness of the poet’s untrained
voice. Also, he listens in select and
restricted company, no doubt believing with
Lamb, “More than one and it degenerates
into an audience.”
Mrs. Crowther says that what Australia
wants is buyers for Australian books. Rather,
what is wanted is Australian books and
more Australian books worth buying. That
is the one outstanding virtue of The
Bulletin's Novel Competitions—they en-
courage more and more people to get on
with the business of writing. They make
a visible goal for the writer who is' pre-
pared to get down to it and work; who is
prepared to have “solitude , his glistening
bride and airy thoughts his children”; who,
as Hazlitt tersely clinched it, “is a true
author, and not a member of any debating
club or dilettanti society whatever.”
I said that societies such as the Fellow-
ship of Writers do a service to Australian
literature by getting it publicity, “honor it
by their name, if not by their life,” and
I threw in the provocative comment that
they do so mostly by log-rolling. Not one
of my critics suggests that the Fellowship
does anything else for writers but get such
publicity directly or indirectly, and obvi-
ously it must be loud with log-rolling; a
frank exchange of opinions in such an in-
stitution would wreck it in a month. Still.
I wish it every prosperity, a wish saddened
a little by the thought that someday some-
one will write of it and its fellows as A. S.
Collins has written of similar societies of
last century: “And these talkshops were
one of the crazes of those years of wild
and undisciplined vision.”
CECIL MANN.
A Satchel of Books
A Wayfarer in the Pyrenees, by E. I.
Robson (Methuen). A descriptive book de-
signed for the ordinary tourist. It has 12
illustrations and a map, and in its power
to excite interest complies with the John-
sonian ideal of the travel book.
The World Does Move, by Booth Tal king -
ton (Heinemann). A racy semi-autobio-
graphical survey of the changes that have
come over most of the Avorld in the last DO
years. Perhaps better done than worth
doing, though there are some good stories
to compensate.
Buried Treasures of Chinese Turkestan.
by Albert von Le Coq (Allen and Unwin).
Gift of the narrative faculty and keener
understanding of human beings might have
made this an engrossing book for general
reading. The writer led the second and
third of four expeditions sent out to delve
by the Berlin Ethnological Museum. Ho
found treasure, but missed the fire of adven-
ture.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) mil be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
D.L.R.: It's a matter of cost of sugar for
Australian consumption, too. Make no mistake about
it_the South is getting very dissatisfied with the
price it pavs. . ■ .Morita: Yes, but it s A.l.h. leadeis
themselves who want these matters probed—and
are doing-all the probing.... R.C.11.: Believe you’re
right; but it would be cruel to say so at the
moment. . . .E.D.R.: Took several readings to beat
it. Come again.,. .M.E.: Says a little, but scarcely
enough J.M.: In “Retrospect” it’s not clear
whether you regret the dearth or the birth of the
skirt R.J.0.: Too local E.L.: “Lament” hasn’t
quite enough in it, but has some fine points. .. .
M.E.R.: Capital idea; treatment clumsy A.N.:
Ode to “Wurlitzer Organ” passed out of our mighty
doors M.A.T.: AVe’ll just spell it “Billycannot.”
S.AV.K.: Not worth even that much trouble....
H.H.YV.: Too obvious to mystify a child... .C.E.S.:
Good bricks there, but construction bad... . J.H.C.: A
story with an opening sentence of 140 words is
overlaid by its parent G.H.AV.: Alas, poor ghost!
. ...J.N.: More good building material without
architecture M.M.M.: Merit merely middling
J.A.M.: A bit late G.G.: AVhat is it—a puzzle
or a poem ?... .N.Y.: Good notion, but you don’t
quite succeed with it... .W.E.: After reading “The
Punter: A True Story in Two Verses,” the Religious
Editor cancelled his s.p. bets for the week
L. : “Let me before I pass sing my swan song of
'feeble melody.” Sorry; the hall has been reserved
for the Cheer-up Troupe M.T.: Duly returned,
“as per enclosed envelope”... .8.D.: Robot verse
rather mechanical.... 5.0.: In descriptive vein:—
In the Opal distance
Like an old sun-dial
A blaze of amber and rubies
Philip Isle.
. ...E.S.: Uncommonly good idea spoilt. Try it
over again. .. .A.M.E.: In common with all
rhymes “scribbled in idle moments” it is poor.
.... M.G.: Doesn’t make us think of postal-notes.
Brady’s Lookout: Thanks J.L.: You’ll have
to let them have it out unassisted C.F.P.:
Correct, but lifeless R.J.S.: Another patch of
straggling bush burnt off F.A.: Even so; but
it’s been said pretty often Perseus: Declined,
Perce. .. . A.D.: Too immature yet to warrant a fore-
cast. .. .C.L.: You make clogs of words.... Raupo:
Rhymed statement of fact that women don’t wear
what they once wore amazed us. Are you quite
sure about it? 0.K.: K.O It.D.N.: Returned
marked “Fragile” J.L.N.8.: Doesn’t quite get there.
.. . .C.A.: Feeling a little better now? B.O’B.: Too
true, and too sad AV.H.B.: Had to shake out the
capitals with a sieve G.M.: Squalid A.J.H.:
Fluency runs away with y0u....5.M.: Simple and
natural but not suitable D.F.: Lovely girl, awful
accident, golden-haired giant—same old props....
AV.G.H.: As full of holes as a colander Javey :
Not a story, and too long for a par G. 8.:
Humorous articles badly strained on voyage. . . .M.L.:
Since when have Maorilanders adopted American
slang?... .D.W.: “Crimson Bill” too crimson. .. .
M. No admittance for ghosts. .. .AV.H.B.: Try
elsewhere. . . .AVingella: But it was not that the
woman merely mentioned the country ; it was be-
cause she was abreast of its politics... .Kenna:
Congratulations on resolve to “go on writing until
one is accepted”.... H.11.N.: Original work, please.
... . S.L.: Manly is all you say it is, but that doesn’t
make a poem... . Timon: The pup is now revenged.
. ...C.: Remarkable how surely all verse “To the
Banket” gets home... . M.M.: Why not send it to
li.R.H. direct? J.H.S.: Your “Old Tree” has a
wooden ring... .J.A.: A good swing, but that’s all.
R.G.H.: Might be a “Miracle”; it isn’t a verse.
....Cub: Rothermere controls the Daily Mail, the
Evening News and the Sunday Dispatch ; Beaver-
brook, the Daily Express, the Evening Standard
and the Sunday Express ; the Berrys, the Daily
Telegraph and the Sunday Times; the Astors the
Times and the Observer. ~ .Ainslie: Under the fund-
ing agreement the Commonwealth owed the Govern-
ment of the U.K. £92,480,000 in 1921 and
£84,215,000 on June 30, 1928. Of the latter
amount, £72,591,000 carried interest at 5 p.e.,
£10,473,000 at 4-J p.c. and £1,150,000 at 3£ p.c.
. ...P.R.: Three weddings in a week may account
for “the bloodshot gaze”.... R.W.: Even fiction has
limits of probability... .G.M.: Dubious law. The
agent appears to have gone beyond the scope of
his authority; the sale >was to be conditional, not
absolute G.L.: No use for story of the mysterious
lady who was “probably bow-legged and full of
corns”....Esperanee: The number of members of the
House of Commons was reduced from 707 to 615
after the establishment of the Irish Free State.
England has 492, Wales 36, Scotland 74 and Ulster
13... . Possum: Four lines from your “Old Head’s
Advico” :
When you’re winning, go in with your head down;
Give the other chap’s money a spin.
But caution’s the word when you’re losing,
For chasing it’s folly and sin.
. ...Trib: Everything here printed is paid for, at
A.J.A. rates or better. ... Dig: The McCaughey
money goes to provide technical training for the
children of dead or seriously disabled soldiers.
Amount expended to June 30, 1928, was £159,888,
leaving a balance —it is solidly invested —of
£193,283.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Q.AV.: A trifle, and ordinary at that. .. . S.P.:
Feebly funny fashion-plates. .. .H.Q.: Not a grin in it,
....R.T.: Your pugs won’t fight it out here... .
H.J. : Keep on trying; by no means unpromising. . . .
t'.H.: Dull J.S.S.: A barbarous pun. .. . N.R.W.:
Unattractive couple left star-gazing.... D.M.: Study,
study !.... J.S.: Our sentiments were the same as the
Scot’s, only the drop, was into the w.p.b V.D.:
Mechanical drawing; weak sarcasms M.G.: Evi-
dently a gale got among the linework and blew
everything out of place. .. .H. 11.: Yoit can’t afford
to dispense with lines. .. .R.J.H.: No place here for
lady with ear-trumpet... .J.T.: You have a long
way to go before you master the pen... .C.F.: AA'e
know a chimney-sweep who can draw better with
his sooty fingers.


■ !
■S
1
k
w
m
l
a n a
I
■
■■
i*
m
:
i
st
»
■■ ■
m
m
7
n
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 50.—N0. 2574.
June 12, 1929.
PE.RHA--P 3 WE APE. (iOITJd To HASTE AN ANNUAL
CHANGE OE EAGHIOH •
ONE YEAR, SAV
A Sort of long, skirts and
TRAIN EFFECT ,
THE NExY,
PLEATED SKIRTS
WITH SONIETRING
CHIC IN
radiators
and the mext , practically no skirts
And those worn very high , with, the
Radiator giving, a kind of cloche
hat effect.
THERE WOULD PERHAPS be developed a SORT
OE OUTRIGGER. For ACCESSORIES .
AND one tear THERE WOULD of course EE
Something right up To the cultural
MINUTE . SHOWING PRIMITIVE
fU'FUR IST 1C INFLUENCES , OR
WHATEVER. YOU CALL THEM.*
yj* WOULD EE HARD ON LADIES WHO COULD NOT AFFORD TO BS FASHIONABLS.
ANOTHER TAX ON MOTORISTS.
"In the designing and fitting of cars the appeal is now to women.” —Daily paper.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
Zl4 George Street, Sydney; Box 252188.
Victoria : 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: Adelaide Street , Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, Is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: l,oz. to 10oz., l\d.;
each additional h°.z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z.,
British Possessions and U.S.A.: J/oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
HECTOR BOLITHO’S NEW BOOK .. ..2
BROADCASTING IN AUSTRALIA . . 2, 6
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . .. 5
A FRONT-PAGE CARTOON BY LEASON • 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
Civil Service Gone Mad .. .. 8
JOHN BULL AND HIS MONEY . . .. 8
Trade Takes to Wings—
By “Feng-Shui” .. .. .. .. 8
NEED WE IMPORT ARCHBISHOPS? . . .. 9
Sydney’s Death Trams .. 9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 9
POLITICS (with caricatures) .. .. .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. .. 11, 12
PERSONAL (with three drawings) .. .. 14
POVERTY POINT 15
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..17
A NEW SYDNEY THEATRE 17
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
NATIONAL BANK 18
Garratt’s .. 18
SWAN BREWERY 18
MOREHEAD’S 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 23, 25
Free Service Department 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 32
FEEDING OFF GRAIN CROPS . . . . . . 28
PASTURE IMPROVEMENT 28
CHOOSING NEW FRUIT TREES . . . . 28
SMOKE-OH .. 34
PEN AND PICTURE 37
SPORTING (Illustrated) .. .. ..39,41,42
A.J.C. Winter Meeting 39
INTERSTATE FOOTBALL 39
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 44
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 46
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 49
“The Quartermaster” • .. 50, 51, 52, 58
STORIES—
“LESSING’S GUN,” by Norman S. Morrell, 55, 57
“THE CALL,” by Francis Osborn .. 57, 58
VERSE—
“THE HARBOR BRIDGE,” by Arthur Adams.. 11
“THE MARCH OF CHANGE,”
By Furnley Maurice.. .. .. .. 58
“ECONOMY,” by R. Crawford 58
NEXT WEEK:
Complete New Yarn by Steele Rudd.
yTw'fyuUeli/Tl
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 12, 1929.
CIVIL SERVICE GONE MAD.
“During the 15 years Iff 13-27 inclusive,
over 10 million people were directly
affected by decisions of the Australian
Arbitration Courts, and were ordered
to receive nearly £100,000,000 a year
of increased wages. —Text for Dis-
course.
The reason habitually assigned for increase
of wages is that the cost of living has gone
up. But if wages are always being raised,
and working hours diminish, and “improved
conditions” are in constant demand, and
taxation is growing, it is difficult to see how
the cost of production, which is the cost
of living, can do anything else but go up.
The attitude of the Arbitration Courts was
most clearly defined by the late Justice
Higgins. After giving an award in the
matter of the Barrier silver-mines, he added
that if they couldn’t work it wouldn’t show
that the award was wrong; it would only
that the industry was wrong, and
therefore had better close, and leave the
employees without wages of any sort. The
infallibility of judicial persons was never
more clearly defined. Nor their impractic-
ability.
A Conference of Premiers which recently
met at Sydney raised the question of mak-
ing State public enterprises, or “instrument-
alities,” exempt from the jurisdiction of the
Federal Court, on the ground that it had
become a burden too great to be borne.
The Premiers regarded the recent addition
of 4s. per week to wages as the last straw,
and said that the matter would have to
be pursued further. Whereupon this tele-
gram fell in on the Ministry at Sydney:—
“The State instrumentalities unions’ com-
mittee, representing 200,000 State and semi-
State employees, is bitterly opposed to the
resolution of the Premiers’ Conference aiming
at their exclusion from Federal jurisdiction.
They consider the action a flagitious dis-
regard of Australian sentiment, and a
betrayal of the principle of democracy
incorporated in the Australian Constitution.
The committee is determined to tight reac-
tionary proposals at every step. We request
the conference to receive a deputation before
further action is taken.”
There were also some remarks about the
expense the employees had been at in
securing the awards; the expense of meet-
ing them wasn’t mentioned.
Possibly, like Jonah of old, the “instru-
mentalities unions’ committee” did well to
be angry; but, like Justice Higgins, it left
the practicability or otherwise of the situ-
ation out of consideration. It is difficult
to differentiate between Federal awards,
but, lumped together, the cash results of
Arbitration for 15 years are recorded thus:
Persons Affected Increase (Annual)
by Awards. of Wages Grunted.
1913 .. 166,132 £1,961,336
' 1914 .. 125,218 1,596,620
1915 .. 197,410 2,699,060
1916 .. 492,487 7,341,996
1917 . . 292,910 4,212,364
1918 .. 361,581 4,433,520
1919 .. 603,891 13,335,140
1920 .. 1,027,286 25,724,816
1921 .. 732,265 9,654,216
1922 .. 628,116 3,669,224
1923 . . 990.852 6,408,936
1924 .. 847.655 2.151.032
1925 .. 1,262,209 6,210,204
1926 .. 1,221,760 4,556,240
1927 . . 1,263,992 2,755,896
When the figures for 1928 and 1929 are
added it will be found that the goblet of
absurdity is full and overflowing.
Plainly the more awards are made the
more are demanded. And the more wages
are granted to overtake the high cost of
living the more the cost of living gets
ahead of the wages, which push from behind
and keep the ball rolling. There isn’t a
single break in the upward movement; and
a crowd of hopelessly benighted doctrinaires,
who maintain that it is possible to have
high cost of production—the result of big
wages, short hours, slow day labor and
strikes—and low cost of living at the same
time, don’t propose that there shall be any
break. They demand a worse Species of
foolishness and more of it.
But industry can’t stand unlimited foolish-
ness, especially when it does no good to
the fools. It was after the great wage up-
lift of 1919 and 1920 that Australia became
chronically unable to meet legitimate daily
expenses. In the five years prior to June,
1920, exports exceeded imports by about
£100,000,000 (£20.000,000 a year), and that
was more than sufficient to meet all external
liabilities (interest, etc.), except war charges.
In the five years to June, 1927, production
had so much declined, and luxury (but
certainly not human happiness) had so
greatly increased, that imports exceeded
exports by £62,000,000. In other words, the
community went £32,000,000 a year to the
bad, and in one sensational year it bor-
rowed as much as £54,000,000 abroad merely
to keep the home pot boiling.
The Arbitration Courts unfortunately
take no notice of trifles like this. It isn’t
their business.
JOHN BULL AND HIS MONEY.
It was the Baldwin Government which
conferred the franchise on an additional
five million British maids and matrons by
putting the sexes on an equality as regards
the voting age; and, probably as a conse-
quence, the Baldwin party now takes second
place, Labor having the biggest following,
though not a majority over all opponents.
Britain in consequence is promised a Free-
trade policy. If Ramsay MacDonald, who
will carry the financial responsibility, shirks
the issue, Lloyd George, who has no re-
sponsibility and who is necessary to Mac-
Donald’s continuance in office, is always
liable to give him a reminder. George
reckoned that he could run Freetrade with
the aid of a big-loan-and-public-works
policy; but MacDonald has to do it without
that help or not do it at all.
The Cold Country hasn’t enjoyed the
doubtful blessing of anything remotely
approaching Freetrade since it began to
really shoulder the burden of the war, and
decided that it was time for the loan habit
to be considered “off.” The war produced
these changes, among others: —
British Customs British Excise Excess
Revenue. Revenue. Excise.
1913-14.. £35,569,000 £39,658,000 £4,089,000
1927-28.. 111,620,000 163,718,000 52,098,000
Britain is able to tax its own products
(excise) far more than it taxes other people’s
products (customs) partly because of ex-
perience in manufacturing and partly
because of fairly cheap labor. It is helped
by the fact that it has an income earned
abroad. In 1927 its exports, including in-
come earned abroad, exceeded its imports
by £96,000,000, so it had surplus money to
lend to poor beggars like Australia. In
the same year Australia’s imports exceeded
its exports by nearly £20,000,000, and to
meet the difference it was a poor beggar
very anxious to borrow.
In Australia the excise revenue, instead
of being much larger than customs, is little
more than one-third of it. Yet the rates
of excise are not so widely different. In
England they run up to 50 per cent, ad
valorem, and in Australia to 65 per cent.
Death duties, which are largely a tax on
local industry when the industrialist is
dead, just as excise duties tax it while he
is alive, also form a very minor item in
the Australian revenue as compared with
the British one. The inference is that Aus-
tralia is growing poorer while Britain is
heading the other way, though a land with
such a dense population and such a dis-
couraging climate has always a tendency to
look miserable.
Now the Freetrader in Britain, especially
if he is enthusiastic and inexperienced, is
confronted by difficult problems. The excise
revenue really rests on the customs. A
British Chancellor of the Exchequer would
have a poor show to collect 79 millions on
British-made beer, or H millions on matches,
or other millions on other things if the
corresponding import taxes were taken off.
To levy on John Bull’s own product and
let the foreign one in untaxed would be
giving a preference against John Bull’s
own industry, with disastrous results.
Moreover, the warm-hearted Mac Donall)
promises a basic wage—an improvement on
the present wage, of course, for a reduced
wage would be of no value to man or
beast. The British workman deserves more
pay, but it is a question if he can get it
accompanied by more competition. Still
The Bulletin hopes for the best and wishes
the new Ministry a reasonable spell of
office so that the experiment may have a
fair trial.
TRADE TAKES TO WINGS.
In April the Japanese Government in-
augurated a regular passenger and freight
service via the air between Tokio and
Osaka and the mainland at Dairen and
Shanghai. It is a privately-run concern,
but is controlled by the State, from which it
is to get a generous subsidy. Eventually it
is proposed to make the schedule a daily
affair and later extend it to Mukden and
Harbin, in Manchuria, and Irkutsk, in
Siberia. There it will link up with the
Soviet’s Kazan to Irkutsk service, unless
certain possibilities intrude.
The major possibility is that the Luft-
hansa, the great German concern, will be
there before the Japs. The Lufthansa is
straining every nerve and pulling, every
diplomatic string on behalf of another
Government-backed project of its own. Its
plans include a GU-hour service from Ham-
burg to Shanghai, via Moscow and Peking.
The route lias already been surveyed and
test flights made. The scheme is to supply
a passenger and mail service first, with a
freight and express service later. It is
even regarded as a practicable possibility
of the future to carry manufactured goods
in exchange for raw material.
Of course, there are a few niggers in the
woodpile. The Russians desire to run a
service of their own, but they don’t possess
the giant ’planes. Lufthansa has got over
this difficulty by establishing a subsidiary
company under the shadow of the Soviet.
Then the Chinese Aviation Co., a new
concern which makes up for lack of years
and experience by unbounded enthusiasm,
wants to run its end of the affair. Behind
it are not only the Chinese Government but
American interests, which are ready to
supply the technical knowledge and build
the machines on the spot. A somewhat
belated arrival in the argument is Imperial
Airways, Ltd. It has slowly but steadily
been building a route through Egypt to
India, which will eventually extend through
Singapore to Hong Kong and bring that
British outpost within seven days of London.
Working more or less in conjunction with
the British project are the Dutch. The
Netherlanders plan to run a service from
Rotterdam through Constantinople, Bag-
dad, Calcutta and Singapore to Java, and
the scheme is under way. Australia is
directly interested in a proposed offshoot
of both.
History repeats itself. The first white
men to arrive on the Pacific were
pedestrians. They walked through Con-
stantinople, India and the Gobi Desert,
where Marco Polo heard the singing sands
and saw the gentlemen who wore their
heads between their shoulders. Later some
persistent English merchants started plod-
ding down through Archangel and Moscow.
Then Venice started a sea route to Asia
Minor, where the walking began again and
continued until the port of Basra was
reached. Venice and Genoa fought for the
monopoly of this route until Portugal made
it no longer worth fighting for by finding the
sea route round the Cape. Portugal, Hol-
land, Britain and, later, France fought for
the monopoly of the new route. Then the
landways began to intrude again. Russia
built the Trans-Siberian railway, which
brought London within 14 days of Peking
as against six weeks via Suez. It also
caused the Russo-Japanese War. Germany
began her groping eastward via the Bag-
dad railway, which was one of the reasons
why the Great War was fought. After that
world-shaking event the seaways resumed
their old importance because Bagdad was
no longer in Turko-German hands and the
Trans-Siberian was divided amongst three
owners. Now both landway and seaway are
threatened by a young and vigorous com-
petitor.
Altogether, the age-long rivalry between
the Big Powers for the prizes of the Pacific
is going to be'greatly intensified in the next
few years by this excursion into the air.
There is talk of co-operation between
Imperial Airways, Lufthansa and the
Chinese Aviation Co., and it might be a
good thing. But co-operation on a scale
international enough to include all possible
competitors has never been a strong feature
of the history of Europe in Asia.
Feng-Shui.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Through-Australia Railway.
The first real transcontinental railroad in
Australian history has now been completed
as far as Alice Springs, the metropolis of
the new Territory of Central Australia. To
have got so far is to the credit of the
Bruce-Page Ministry, which is short of
credit in a general way. And having got
so far it is up to the Cabinet to set about
devising ways and means of going further
and completing the work. One reason is
that to accept 523,620 square miles of
land on condition of supplying a complete
railway, and not to supply the railway,
would rank as dishonesty in the best busi-
ness circles. Another is that the completed
transcontinental route is about the most
promising, if not the most promising, in-
vestment that the Federal authority has in
hand.
It is a matter of certainty that a finished
line, especially when it is a short cut with
a valuable port at each end, will pay better
than one with a large gap over which heavy
freights are humped by camel, motor,
aeroplane, or by pedestrian with swag. Yet
even with this enormous handicap the
Darwin-Port Augusta railway isn’t the
bleak frost that the credulous Australian is
taught to believe. The enemies are mostly
axe-grinders of the parochial sort, who
hate to see Federal money spent on
Federal enterprise in Federal territory when
the States, especially the ones with most
votes, can do with it so well.
The following figures show by how much
the South-to-North railway, or the two
widely severed fragments of it, failed to
pay working expenses in 1927, the figures
for some N. S. Wales lines being thrown in
for comparison:—
SHORTAGE IN EARNINGS COMPARED WITH
WORKING EXPENSES.
Commonwealth Seuvice.
South-to-North Railway (677 miles) .. £8,816
New South Wales Service.
Clyde-Carlingford (5 miles) .. .. 13,082
Wetstmead-Rogan’s Ilill (8 miles) .. 17,023
DeniondriJle-Bbiyney (111 miles) .. 31,507
Bogan Gate“Tottenham (72 miles) .. 94,068
Richmond Kurrujong (7 miles) .. .. 8.192
The N. S. Wales lines quoted are taken
from a list of 28, and the Ma State presents
no worse samples than some other States.
And they are works with no visible future
that is much better than the visible present,
whereas the Federal Government owns an
immensity of land in Central and Northern
Australia, which was given it as a railway
endowment. Soil generally has a certain
realisable value if political cranks don’t pro-
hibit the sale of it, or hamper business
with an impossible mass of red tape. This
is especially the case if there is a solid
assurance of means of communication—in
a reasonable time and not at the pace of
one mile in a generation.
+
The Marketing of Labor Power.
“Wealsman” (one of the oldest of Aus-
tralian Labor members) sees a change
pending:—
Trades-unionists in Australia, as else-
where, are not so cocksure as some of their
leaders used to be that wages can be fixed,
by law courts or otherwise, without reference
to the allegedly obsolete law of supply and
demand. Unemployment is showing that the
old law is still in active business.
Recently high officials of the Trades Hall
in at last one State have publicly asserted
that the Arbitration Court and Wages
Hoards’ basic wage ukases are breaking
down under economic pressure, many
workers accepting lower rates of pay in
preference to going hungry. Nominally the
legal wage is being paid and accepted; but
when both buyer and seller are of the same
mind as to the price of an article, there is
little difficulty in completing the exchange
safely and effectively and secretly. The bare
admission by trusted Trades Hall officials
that the thing is happening in any sub-
stantial degree ought to be enough to tumble
the whole wage-fixing futility into its well-
earned grave. At any rate, it should set all
decent Australians thinking out a likelier
way of solving the industrial problem than
by strikes, lock-outs, boycotts or legal awards
unashamedly based upon the cost of Mum’s
most intimate frillies,' Dad’s pyjamas and
little Susie’s undershirt. And if in the
course of their cogitation they arrive at the
inevitable conclusion that the wages system
is beyond all hope of patching, and must be
superseded by some saner system of co-
operation between employers and wage-plugs
in the work of production—well, so much the
better.
But it must be confessed that neither
employers nor employed—not even the unem-
ployed, so far—show much inclination to
regard wage-wrangling as anything but the
natural order of things and labor power as
a commodity buyable and sellable like shoes
and spuds. We talk of the labor market,
the fish market, the cattle market indiscrimi-
nately. And while this custom continues
there will be the usual market chaffering. If.
as at present, the supply of workers exceeds
the demand —they cannot wait for a better
market, as they are not fish to be frozen or
catile to be trucked back to the clover or
fruit to be turned into jam—the buyers have
the best of the deal. Of course if, as seldom
happens, there is more work than workers,
then the buyers have to pay more. In either
case there is inevitable friction and bad
feeling, and the cheap and efficient produc-
tion of goods (Australia’s crying need at
present) is impossible.
It is as foolish as any other sort of war.
And more dangerous than most wars. The
League of Nations might do worse than
tackle the problem of the Supersession of
the Wage-Wrangle System at once, and.
having solved it, wind up the League and
go home to bed. But there is perhaps more
to be hoped for from the fact (if it is a
fact) that union officials are realising the


THE SICK BREADWINNER.
BRITANNIA: “The poor man is very sick. How would you cure him of his disease in your country, Mr. Bavin?”
BAVIN: “In our country we wouldn’t cure his disease, Madame —we would dope him and make him forget he had it."
utter futility of wage-fixing by ordinances,
ukases, pronouncements, declarations, deci-
sions of councils, or laws which can be, and
are always, over-ridden by older and all-
powerful laws, the only laws that Necessity
respects.
If Your Honor Pleases.
Since the year 1916 accused persons in Vic-
toria charged with serious offences who were
without means could apply for legal assist-
ance ; and if the Attorney-General was
satisfied of their poverty and that it was
desirable in the interests of justice, he
could order counsel and a solicitor to be
assigned for the defence. Counsel assigned
got a nominal fee of a few guineas and
could refuse the brief without explanation.
But it is not good business to refuse. In
several recent causes celebres counsel of
tonnage have been well content to battle
for the lives of murderers at a handy-man’s
poor rate of pay, because of the publicity
shed on a notorious criminal trial.
In civil matters for the last half-century
the Rules of Court have also provided
procedure whereby poor litigants, after
obtaining counsel’s opinion (for a fee) that
they have a good case, and on proof they
were not worth more than £25 (wearing
apparel excepted), could apply to a Judge
to assign a counsel or solicitor to assist
them; and the person so assigned, “unless
he satisfied the Judge he had some good
reason for refusing,” could not refuse his
assistance. Want of familiarity with this
rule (which lawyers kept to themselves)
made the practice almost obsolete until
Attorney-General Slater, of the Hogan
Labor Government, passed the Legal Assist-
ance to Poor Persons Act 1927. Besides
extending the privileges of suing or defend-
ing in forma pauperis to persons without
more than £SO in property, it makes the
procedure applicable to divorce suits and
appoints a public solicitor to investigate
applicants’ means and their prospective
causes of action. Since the law came into
force the. number of husbands and wives
without visible means of support but de-
sirous of being matrimonially freed is amaz-
ing, and no less than 130 paupers are now
enjoying the luxury of free divorce proceed-
ings at the expense of the legal profession!
For unless the assigned barrister can show
good reason, he must hold the brief
allotted; and acceptance by him of a fee
or honorarium amounts to contempt of
court.
Possibly some raw junior may be willing
to experiment on poor persons’ cases; but in
undertaking a case he is in a very different
position from medical and dental students
learning their job at public hospitals, as
under the Legal Profession Practice Act
1915 “every barrister is liable for negli-
gence as a barrister to his client.” The
prospect of a legally press-ganged barrister
of a few weeks’ standing making a muck
of a divorce petition and being subse-
quently landed in heavy damages for in-
competence and negligence seems extremely
probable.
Sydney’s Heath Trains.
“Swept off the footboard of a tram by a lorry
in Derwent-street, Glebe, last Saturday, W. Green,
of Arncliffe, a ticket inspector, died from his injuries
in the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital yesterday.”
One of many simitar recent news items.
The justification of Sydney’s footboard
trams, which the Commissioners go on
building, in face of ample evidence that
they are dangerous to life and limb, is their
alleged earning capacity during peak hours.
They are easier to enter than corridor
trams. Incidentally, they are also easier to
leave, which makes them a boon to
“scalers.”
The Bulletin has great sympathy for the
Railway Commissioners. They have had
to struggle to make ends meet in the fa.ce
of always-advancing wages and a sharp rise
in the interest bill owing to the tremendous
increase in the cost of construction. But
that is no justification for using appliances
which are inhumane and a disgrace to the
city. And they become more inhumane and
more disgraceful as motor and other street
traffic thickens.
Whether the trams should be permitted to
come into the streets of the city is doubt-
ful, and becomes more doubtful every year.
One thing is certain: their present design,
involving the ticket-collectors and others
in hourly danger from passing vehicles, and
exposing them to all the weathers there are,
will be one of the factors that will tend to
drive them out of the city boundaries.
Instead of making friends, the system is
building up an army of enemies which will
one day destroy it.
Of course the change will cost money. It
cost money to screen the drivers—for many
years that was said to be impossible. It
cost money to add to the rolling stock so
that it should be no longer necessary for
passengers to crowd the footboards like
ants. But those changes were made, and
nobody would dream of suggesting a rever-
sion to the old ways. Two years after the
last of the footboards cease to disgrace our
streets —and the Commissioners and the
Government—we shall wonder how a self-
respecting people ever tolerated them, or
how we got careful men to operate them.
In those days, when they hear that
“Safety first!” was the department’s motto,
they will regard the department as being
either a great humorist or a colossal hum-
bug.
Imported Gaiters.
According to Dean Aickin, Melbourne is
still without an Anglican archbishop be-
cause of the difficulty of finding a man who
combines a consecrated personality, preach-
ing power, organising and administrative
ability and a strong physique with a know-
ledge of sanctuary music, business pro-
cedure, industrial issues and architecture.
But why such a prodigy? Some of the
qualities are no doubt essential; but it
would be just as rational to require the
general manager of the A.M.P. to be a
diagnostician as to expect a leading ecclesi-
astic to be an architect. This is the age of
specialisation, and the Anglican Church
can as safely leave its building projects to
its building specialists as a bank board can.
The simple truth is that there are people
in the church in Australia who want to
import a successor to the late lamented
Lees. They know that there is no man
in Australia with all the qualities in their
schedule and no man who can pretend that
he has them: but it might be quite easy
to bluff the archdiocese into believing that
some person at a great distance is the
prodigy. On close examination, of course,
he will be found to be not a prodigy at all
—not even perhaps a very good suburban
incumbent. But by the time the discovery
is made the ecclesiastical gold-brick will be
well and truly sold.
During the past 20 years a good many
Australian clergymen have been appointed
to Australian sees. And repeatedly when
a more important see has been open they
have been asked to take it. How many
bishops imported from overseas have been
invited to step in to a more important
Australian see?
♦
Unrlergrads Police Themselves.
“D.A.”: Who is to blame for undergraduate
excesses? Certainly not the University
authorities; but if any blame is to be
allotted for failure to acquire wisdom till
after the event it is the undergraduate
organisations. But the wisdom has evi-
dently been acquired, and one can imagine
that out of this year’s events in Sydney and
Melbourne will come abiding good when one
hears that Sydney undergrads are already
considering the institution of an elective
“Decency-and-Order Posse,” whose aim is
discreetly, authoritatively and effectively
to suppress that minority of students, in
the Universitjr but not of it, whose disrepu-
table excesses of a quite liberal license dis-
grace the whole undergraduate body.
Other universities, similarly afflicted in
recent years with a small hooligan element,
conspicuous in itself and leading others
astray, could with advantage take a leaf
from the book of the Sydney under-
graduates.
An Odyssey of Pain.
Dear Bulletin, —I am in one of the lower-
paid professional classes. The country
doctor advised specialist treatment, so I
travelled 250 miles to Melbourne and went
to one of the bigger public hospitals. There
I was informed that the specialist came
once a week and I had just missed him.
That meant a week’s board for myself and
family.
I attended the hospital on the specialist’s
day, arriving at one o’clock. After a tedious
wait I was handed an identification card
and passed on to a general doctor. He
endorsed my card, and I joined a queue to
the pay-clerk’s office. I explained my finan-
cial circumstances and was assessed at a
50 p.c. rate. There was another queue
to the pay-desk, and another (of 100-odd)
waiting to see the specialist.
By five o’clock I was dripping perspira-
tion and desperately thirsty, but I did not
dare lose my position in the queue.
A sick child in the arms of a girl-mother
whimpered incessantly: flies buzzed round
a running ear. It was half-past five when I
entered a little room, still by the method
of propelling oneself along a smooth bench;
and here for an hour I watched the patients
being examined by the specialist and two
clinical assistants. A student offered his
services, but, desperate, I clutched the end
of the specialist’s queue and refused to be
dislodged.
By half-past six I was with the specialist
for one minute. He said (1) my condition
needed an immediate operation; (2) the
beds were all booked up for the next couple
of months; (3) I had better come back
in a month’s time.
A nose-lotion and a bottle of something
were given to me. The tired-out dispenser
said it was a tonic. By half-past seven I
boarded the tram outside the hospital, phy-
sically and mentally exhausted. I drank
the “tonic” and was immediately sick; it
proved to be a gargle.
The sequel: Collins-street, another special-
ist, an operation in a private hospital and
a bill which will cripple me and mine for the
year We poorer professional people fall
between two stools.—Yours, etc., Inter-
mediate H.
♦
Talk v. Work.
Commenting on the sharp increase in the
cost of living during the past year shown
by the Federal Statistician, the Minister
for Trade and Customs did not mince his
words. Said Mr. Gullett:—
“The reason why more men are not
employed is that employers do not find
them profitable. Wages are not too high;
the standard of living is not too high; but
the amount of work done for the money is
in many cases insufficient.”
It is bedrock truth. Labor is loafing on
its job. The Northern N. S. Wales miner
on the lower pre-war wages produced more
coal than he does to-day on a far higher
scale of pay. Never was there more unem-
ployment among the miners (and that is
apart from the sti’ike); never was our export
of coal lower; never was the spirit of law-
lessness, the offspring of idleness, so rife.
Two years ago Trotsky decried the
Russian proletariat trend towards talk in-
stead of work and asked “What should we
strive for? We must learn to work effi-
ciently, accurately, punctually, economi-
cally.” Trotsky was thrown to the wolves
and Russia still talked. To-day she is up
against disaster. On the very day the
Gullett comment was published the cable
told of a new Soviet dream to increase the
production of the nation by 20 per cent.
It is a candid admission of the failure of
the much-talk-and-little-work doctrines of
the past. Russia is learning by bitter experi-
ence that the backbone of a nation’s pros-
perity is its productivity. The same lesson
must be brought home to ourselves.
The Australian Cement Manufacturers’
Association has written a letter to Primin-
ister Bruce that contains a lot of interesting
assertions about road-making. The import-
returns of bitumen products for the last
three years—l92s-26, £232.603; 1926-27,
£404,640; 1927-28, £488,633 —give some color
to the suggestion that these importations
are depressing the market for Australian-
made tar and cement. Cement-makers in
Australia have tariff protection to the ex-
tent of Is. 6d. per cwt. general and Is. pre-
ferential, but the materials for asphalt-
making, imported mostly from Mexico, the
U.S.A. and Holland, come in free. The
cement people want a heavy duty clapped
on asphalt imports, and claim that such a
duty would be in the national interest.
Certainly if we can keep half a million a
year in Australia, stimulate employment and
substantially reduce future expenditure on
road-maintenance at one fell swoop, we
ought to unleash the swoop without delay.


Quick Starting in Cold Weather
The bother and annoyance of slow starting are unknown to
SHELL Motorists. The volatility of SHELL Spirit and the
fluidity of SHELL Oil remain unaffected at the low tempera-
tures where other motor spirit and oils are heavy and sluggish.
Fill up with the best Spirit and Oil the SHELL Pair and
experience the pleasure of a summer start on a winter morning.
SHELL
Motor Oil
and Spirit
From Sealed Equipment
for your protection
V—
*.2C5
3
\
SHELL
OILS
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Prime Minister is apparently recover-
ing hope that he may yet make the Com-
monwealth the sole Arbitration authority.
It is merely a matter of another referendum
and better luck than attended the last one,
and Bruce hints at making the necessary
effort. Should the event come off, and should
the Federal Court preserve its liberal atti-
tude in fixing wages and conditions on the
State railways, the maddened States will
have to offer Bruce their railways, and Bruce
will have to take them.
Since Premier Bavin left for London
Lang has been un-
wontedly silent. Of
course silence is the
best policy for a man
so vulnerable in con-
troversy when the other
side is obviously
playing his game for
him. Stevens, the
taciturn Treasurer,
has, on. the other
hand, been startled
into speech by the
discovery that middle-
class electors are in
revolt against over-
taxation, and has pro-
mised to take some-
thing off the impost
on company profits.
Nothing but a substan-
tial reduction of the
income-tax will save
the N.S.W. National-
ists next year—that,
and a strong infusion
of new blood, which
means the abandon-
Lang is content to
grin.
ment of the pre-selection swindle.
Queensland is to have a Royal Commission
to inquire into the circumstances in- which
one of its successive Labor Ministries pur-
chased the Mungana mines, presumably with
profit to somebody, but certainly with great
loss to the community. An investigation
is also promised into the purchase of the
Glullagoe mines and railway and into deal-
ings in cattle stations. It looks like one
of the rare Royal Commissions which will
till a long-felt want.
Vic. Premier McPherson has been in office
nearly seven months, but beyond a list of
headlines has not declared his policy. He
will declare it to-night at Hawthorn, which
has never before heard a policy speech except
over the wireless; the programme will be on
the lines indicated in last week's Bulletin.
The whole of McPherson’s following in the
Assembly will be there to encourage him.
One of the French revolutionary generals
was guillotined after a battle because, as
was thoughtfully explained to him. “a victim
is necessary to the Convention.” On the same
principle, a victim is necessary every now
and then to the Seamen’s Union, that organ-
isation being “revolutionary” and broke. The
latest is Jacob Johnson, who has been heaved
out of his job as general secretary. And the
luckless Jacobin has just served a sentence
in the Cause!
The supply of broadcast programmes, to
which Williamsons and
Melbourne Herald
have hitherto contri-
buted, is to be handed
over for three years to
a new concern headed
by S. F. Doyle of the
cinema theatres, Albert
of the musi c-shops
and Ben Fuller of the
music-halls. Holly-
wood movies and
talkies, New York jazz
songs, and Stiffy and
Mo ! It may work out
better than that, but
doubts will not be dis-
p lied, even though
Mo’s employer pro-
tests that he will
start out with “high
ideals,” and Doyle re-
fers to his picture-
show orchestras as a
“nuclexxs.” Neither do
the Government’s pre-
vious muddled manoe-
uvres in the broad-
casting field inspire
confidence.
Ben Fuller,
crammed with
“high ideals.”
The Federal Parliamentary recess has pro-
duced one long-overdue reform in the shape
of a permanent set of Standing Orders de-
signed to curtail unnecessary debate and pre-
vent tedious repetition. Hitherto debates
have been controlled for the most part by
the South Aus. Standing Orders, which were
framed in a less vaporous age. They were
adopted largely because the first Senate Pre-
sident, House of Reps. Speaker and Chief
Clerk of Parliament were all South Aus-
tralians.
Following on the proceedings in which one
Fitzgibbons, motor-’bus proprietor, was
charged—ineffectually—with having offered a
bribe to the late Chief Sec. Bruntneil, David-
son, J., has staggered the Nationalists by re-
porting that, in his judgment as Royal
Commissioner, Fitzgibbons and Jarvie,
M.L.A. for Ashfield, conspired to offer a
bribe, and that one or other committed per-
jury in addition. There is to be another
criminal prosecution. Whatever the result
may be, it seems improbable that the bob-a-
nob pre-selection system will survive it.
Loan jobbery is full of complications. New
York has always been an expensive market;
when N.S.W. floated its 10j- million loan
there in 1926-27 it lost £656,363 in discount
and expenses. Interest on all foreign loans
is, of course, free of Australian taxes. Now
the Yankees, being possibly tired of us, have
taken to selling Australian bonds to people
here. So when Earle Page wants another
local loan he will be confronted with the fact
that it pays better to buy second-hand secu-
rities from the Yankees than new ones direct,
and that astute financiers in a large way of
industry have dropped to this.
It would ease the situation if Austral 1 a
could only contrive to grow its own tobacco
supply, instead of raising £123,436 worth
in a year, and importing £2,644,754 worth.
The finding of a foreign market for surplus
tobacco wouldn’t crop up this year, anyhow.
Despite its love of display, the Federal
Ministry has cancelled the proposed cere-
monial opening of the Transcontinental rail-
way as far as Alice Springs, alleging that
it would be unjustifiable extravagance.
Economy is such a rare virtue with the
Brage Cabinet that people seek other
reasons. The Ministry couldn’t attend such
a ceremony without being asked when the
long overdue complete railway will eventuate.
So far as this Cabinet is concerned, it won’t
eventuate at all; even the extension to Alice
Springs would have been stopped but for
the fact that a contract had been let.
Queensland, the new Government has dis-
covered, harbors 265 persons with railway
passes which are good for all lines, with
free sleeping berths thrown in. Yet there
are only 88 Queensland Parliamentarians,
State and Federal, and over £19,000,000 has
been lost on the railways in 14 years. Pre-
mier Moore has undertaken to restrict this
deadheadism to the irreducible minimum, and
in common honesty other State Governments
should do the same.
Last year, as the Auditor-General notes,
the N.S.W. taxpayers had to foot bills
amounting to £2440 for "unforeseen ex-
penses” in the entertainment line, besides
shoals of such accounts as “\isit of lion.
L. C. S. Amery, £171,6.” Among the casual
arrivals who received Government hospi-
tality were six bands of footballers, includ-
ing two lots of professionals, a lawn-tennis
party and a German swimmer. In the state-
ment of expenditure the gifts of wine and
poultry to these sturdy fellows figure as
“services.”
Geelong’s football club has stringent regu-
lations to prevent collections on its
ground during matches, but it deeded they
were null and. void when the local strikers
threatened to boycott the games unless they
were allowed to tout for funds inside the
gates. Probably the club argued that while
the Government allowed strikers to picket
timber mills and hold up the traffic in Mel-
bourne with unauthorised processions, it
would be presumption for a mere athletic
association to stick to its principles.
Replying to a distressed deputation from
South Australia, the Prime Minister
admitted that an attempt is being made to
get the balance of the £64,000,000 cheap loan
from the British Government without the
embarrassing condition that Australia shall
receive and “satisfactorily settle” 453,000
immigrants in return. At all events he wants
the bargain “modified.” It is a great deal
to ask, for the disposal of surplus population
was the one object Baldwin had in view,
but the effort may bear fruit. The agree-
ment was a counsel of despair, something
akin to one of the last gasps of Khedive
Ismail, when he contemplated collecting 10
years’ land tax in advance and giving a dis-
count for cash.
The way Australian sinking funds work
is illustrated in the N.S.W. finance report
for 11 months to the end of May. In that
period the Ma State borrowed t12,868,l <6,
of which £7.253,563 was raised abroad, about
half in London and half in New York. But
there was a trilling set-off, for £5OO was
repaid abroad, and £501,106 in Australia. It
was doubtless harder to find the £5OO than
the £501,106. There may be paper sinking
fund money here, but it can’t be got to Lon-
don or New York in any form which is worth
anything whatever at these places unless
there are sufficient exports to cover imports
and foreign interest bills, and nothing
approaching that ever happens now. Nor
will it happen till imports are drastically
reduced.
It may be that various appeals will be
lodged against Justice Campbell’s judgments
on the grounds that by error he stayed a few
months longer on the N.S.W. Supreme Court
Bench than he should have done; but in
order to discourage these actions the Attor-
ney-General ought to intimate at once that
not a bean of Government money will be
forthcoming to reimburse anybody even if
the appeals are successful.
State Governments are figuring out how
they are going to spend their revenue from
motor taxation as if the arrangement where-
by fourpence will be added to the price of
every gallon of petrol, the annual registra-
tion fee to be correspondingly reduced, will
make no difference to the final total. The
effect of the shifting of the burden may be
to make it harder to use a petrol vehicle
for business and cheaper to employ it on
week-end jaunts to the hills, because while
it remains in the garage it will be costing
only a nominal amount. Nevertheless, if
there are fewer vehicles during the week
earning money for their owners in the way
of business, there will be less cash for joy-
r'ding on Sunday. And either way that
means a reduction in revenue.
Melbourne Botanic
Gardens committee re-
cently objected to the
roads and plantations
scheme suggested by
the war memorial com-
mittee as a setting for
the Shrine of Remem-
brance. The gentle
Angus, Minister for
Lands, listened atten-
tively, and then mildly
pointed out that the
gardens committee was
poaching, the Domain
not being under its
care. A few days
later he had a look
for himself, with the
result that he has
adopted the memorial
committee’s scheme.
Since Ward returned
to power in Maori-
land various expensive
railway projects in
the North Island have
been discontinued and
Harry Angus.
now the South Island has been told, to its
delight, that it is to have its main trunk and
Westland-Nelson lines completed, and the
Waikato River harnessed for hydro-electric
power purposes. The South built its most
important railway lines out of its own
revenues in the days before the provinces
were abolished, and pioneered hydro-electric
development. North Island advocates mor-
osely protest that the proposed works won’t
pay. Southerners retort that the North has
for years calmly appropriated from 60 to
SO per cent, of the Dominion’s public works
expenditure without once raising . the issue
of productivity.
J. W. Bleakley’s report on the condition
of the natives in Central and North Aus-
tralia contains an interesting reference to
the proposal for the establishment of a self-
governing abo. State. The warm-hearted
Adelaide people who hit upon the great
notion suggested David Unaipon as a suit-
able ruler of his enfranchised race, and
Bleakley asked that intelligent native for his
views. Uniapon said most emphatically that
“his people would never voluntarily change
their tribal customs and laws for any form
of national government, and that to press
such a system on them would result in
chaos.” Nothing has since been heard of the
Adelaide agitation, but if it isn’t dead it
ought to be.
The Commonwealth Auditor-General, in a
report dealing with expropriated estates in
New Guinea, made
some coldly critical re-
marks about dummy-
ing and payments
without authority.
Arising out of his in-
vestigations, depart-
mental charges were
laid against W. C. P.
Harvey, Custodian of
Expropriated Proper-
ties, and it was pre-
sently announced that
Harvey’s salary had
been reduced from
£OOO to £7OB p.a. Not
till the officer appealed
was the nature of the
charges disclosed; then
it was learned, with
astonishment, that he
was accused of having
bought paint for the
Administration from a
co. in which he was
a shareholder, and of
having been concerned
in transactions rela-
tive to paint co. shares
with suppliers of goods
Auditor-General
Cerutty.
to New Guinea. More will assuredly be
beard of the whole matter in Parliament.
In the official Communist organ, run by
Kavanagh of the Labor Council, it is ex-
plained that timber-strikers have been re-
sponsible for the long list of outrages in
Sydney, and are proud of the fact. “Many
Sydney scabs were visited through the week.”
the story ran, “and handed the timber-men’s
tribute for their scabbing—basket bombs and
bricks,; but no arrests were made.” It
isn’t expected that even this gibe will rouse
the Buttonhole Government from its hori-
zontal attitude. The Buttonhole capacity
for being trodden on seems inexhaustible.
Queensland Land Administration Board’s
latest report on the Upper Burnett settle-
ment scheme estimates that the cost of the
whole concern, when the proposed 1500 blocks
are occupied, will be something like £l5OO
per settler. Eleven hundred farmers, dairy-
men and graziers have been dealt with
already at a cost in railways, roads and
bridges and compensation to the original
landowners of £2,027,000. According to the
board the increased value of the land is con-
siderably more than the railway and road
expenditure which developed it.
Newcastle district ratepayers are moodily
watching the progress of a sewerage job
which is part of the scheme of relief work.
The men—Boo-odd —were engaged through
the local labor bureau; for a five-day week
of 44 hours they get a bit over £5 apiece,
plus tram fares where these exceed 2s. 6d.
Payment for public holidays is compulsory
under the award, and the happy band of
brothers collected over £l6OO for being idle
on May Day and King’s Birthday. It is esti-
mated that the job will last three years, so
there are heaps more public holidays to come.
The old argument between Walloons and
Flemings has broken out again in Belgium,
a general election which increased the party
pledged to separate Flemish Belgium from
the rest of the country having given a prod
to the discussion. The Walloons speak only
one language, French; the Flemings are
mostly bi-lingual, with a particular leaning
to their original tongue, 'which is hardly
distinguishable from Dutch. If the Flemings
separated from Belgium they would have to
join Holland, which country would then have
both banks of the Scheldt and Antwerp. As
there is a strong pro-German party at The
Hague, there is nothing that the Fatherland
would like better.
THE RUSH FOR THE SPOIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Over 200 of Britain’s newly-elected Labor
members pressed their claims to office. Mr. Ramsay
MacDonald insisted on picking his whole team single-
handed.”
Observe the host towards the tart-shop surg-
ing,
Highbrows from college, chaps from fac-
tory zones,
Economists and pitmen, types diverging
From Oswald Mosley, Bart., to Johnny
Jones,
Staunch loyalists and narks who need no
urging
To chip at princes and to gird at thrones,
Prim lady doctors, rugged sons of toil—
All joining in the scramble for the spoil.
Ramsay, you’d need a dozen times the dishes
You have to satisfy these famished droves,
So very few, unhappily, the fishes
Of office and so limited the loaves.
Black looks, I’ll bet, and even blacker wishes
You’ll get from scores of disappointed
coves.
Till you may doubt if this selecting job
Weren’t better handed over to the mob.
Caucus will, soon or late, allot the plunder.
In this enlightened land ’tis years a score
Since Andy Fisher had to knuckle under
And leave the captain’s function to the
corps,
Wherefore I find it something of a wonder
You haven’t parted with the right before.
Indeed, ’tis possible you’ll wish you had
Before your Cabinet is formed, my lad.
Two hundred souls, from militants to
scholars,
Seductive ladies to wild men from Clyde,
All clamoring for Ministerial collars
With the emoluments thereto allied ! '
Ah! triumph with its glories firings its
dolours,
What onus lurks the commodum beside!
’Tisn’t all beer and skittles by a lot,
As you have noted, Mac. Too'right it’s not.
N.S.W.
FORD.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Spare Corp.” : The majority of Diggers’
wills were made and duly attested before
the troopships left Australia; but the leaf
in the paybook which denoted the owner
often served for testators who had delayed
the business or changed their minds. One
Digger who described the lady he wanted
to benefit as “my girl” was evidently deter-
mined that, even if he wasn't certain about
her name, there should be no mistake about
her identity; he pasted in a photograph, and
wrote under it “This is her.” The paybook
was taken from the pocket of his tunic after
death.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: When the Victorian Shrine of
Remembrance is completed the cenotaph
will be only one of its features. The memo-
rial will be the centre of a system of avenues,
lawns and plazas covering several acres,
though there will be no visible limits to the
area as it melts into the Domain gardens
proper. A reflection pool 150 feet long and
100 feet broad will mirror the northern
facade, and the stone platforms surrounding
it will accommodate thousands of people.
The shrine itself will be high enough to
dominate the city. One egregious suggestion
is that 150 feet of the northern lawn should
be devoted to midget ponds, cascades and
waterfalls. It sounds too much like Luna
Park and the scenic railway to be appro-
priate.
NOTHING SO VULGAR.
D OCTOR (always uncertain about the date ): “Let’s see; this is the tenth, isn’t it?”
PATIENT: “Indeed, it is not! It is only my second!”
“Shep”: The Suez Canal was always a
popular bathing resort for Diggers. Cos-
tumes were, of course, unprocurable, but
sentries posted on the high banks heralded
the approach of steamers, and their whistle
was the signal for everyone to submerge to
the neck so that female passengers wouldn't
be embarrassed. The thousands of heads
gazing up from water-level on each side of
the' slowly-moving steamer must have pre-
sented an impressive sight from the prom-
enade-decks. An Orient liner was the un-
doing of the rigid discipline on one occasion.
A passenger on the boat-deck, after announc-
ing his birthplace by coo-ees, dashed out of
sight, to reappear loaded with tins of cigar-
ettes which he scattered broadcast in the
water. The boat had to ease right up to
keep the swirling mass of Diggers out of
danger from its propellers, and you could
hear a dozen cameras clicking. The philan-
thropist finished his largesse by throwing
his last few tins on the banks above the
water-line, whereat hundreds, forgetting the
unwritten law, dashed ashore to join in the
scramble. At that stage the decks cleared
of womenfolk like magic.
* * * *
“Murkah”: Both in connection with the
Southern Cross and Kookaburra searches
and the more recent qiust for Moir and
Owen, Peter Sinclair, of Wave llill radio
station, d. serves honorable mention. Dis-
regarding hours (he is a solo performer) he
maintained communication With the search-
ing airmen throughout, and kept thq Air
Board informed. He was in touch with
Brain when that aerial wizard detected the
death-laden Kookaburra, and also kept track
of him as he dew to further discovery at
Cape Don. Another who didn't spare liim-
s If was Alan Ivempling, radio officer at
Wyndham. These are the type of men who
may some day be needed for even more
urgent work, and it is good to know where
they may be found.
“Clerk’’: Now that Manchester has laid
down a railway platform 2238 ft. long,
Flinders-streot’s No. 1 platform (2025 ft.)
falls to second place. The Melbourne struc-
ture is able to accommodate five seven-car
electric trains end on end. The third and
fourth longest platforms are in Britain, at
York (1602’t.) and Edinburgh (IGSOft.).
Aft r Fl.nd.rs-street, Albury has the longest
platform in Australia. It stretches 1370 ft.,
and that of Spenecr-street (Melb.) is only
10ft. shorter. America, of course, doesn’t
go in for rail platforms at all.
❖ *'< &
“Willah”: Some 40 or 50 miles to the
eastward of Cape Don, where Moir and
Owen hit Australia, is Port Essington, where
an attempt was made to establish a settle-
ment as long ago as 1837. The unhealthy
climate and the unproductive character of
the country killed the venture after a 10-
yrars’ trial. The ruins of what were once
substnnt'al stone buildings and traces of a
burial-ground containing a few graves are
all that remain to indicate where Victoria
(named after the young Queen) once stood.
Both ruins and graves are so obscured by
the dense tropical undergrowth that they
can only be found with difficulty. v But if
the Essington settlement didn’t give a new
city to Australia it gave the gen~ral manager
of Australia’s greatest steelworks a name.
His father, South Australia’s fine old pio-
neer, John Lewis, d : d some exploring in those
parts just before the son was born.
:}; v $ •!*
“Morkrum”: A large proportion of the
aeroplane press-matter is handled by Adel-
aide telegraph office. On a recent night that
station called ard announced that it had
3000 words for Sydney and the Queensland
stations for which Sydney repeats. To save
extra handling Adelaide was put through
direct to Brisbane; with the same object
Brisbane further extended the line to Towns-
ville and Cairns. The matter was also for
Victorian papers, and oth- rs at Launceston
and Hobart, so Melbourne linked the Adel tide
circuit to the cable and joined loops
to Ballarat and Bendigo. On a direct line
Broken Hill was asked to hold itself in
readiness. Perth, Kalgoorlie and xilbany
(the last on a long loop from the first) were
next called up, and Adelaide commenced
transmission. The arrangement of the giant
switchboard occupied less than live minutes,
and the 3000 words reached the various
stations without the loss of a d_ot. The
length of wire in the circuit was 6~50 miles
—a record for Australian telegraphs.
* -fi : i : ❖
“Pawang”: The original Siamese twins
who flourished in the show business (B.
5/6/’29) were named Eng and Chang; actu-
ally they were Chinese born in Siam. After
being shown round the world they married
two s’stcrs and settled in America—on sepa-
rate farms, too. Eng accompanied Chang
around Chang’s estate one week, and Chang
obliged by doing the same with Eng on the
next week. Between them they had 22
children.
* * * *
“Reb. P.”: Even a police mag’sfrate is
occasionally shocked by rmw revelations in
human d 'pravity, and Brisbane’s C.P.M.
frankly admitted that he was stagg red by
the records of twin sisters who appeared
before him the other day. The girls, barely
turned 18, were convicted on eight counts
of shoplifting. Subsequent inquiry showed
that before they wm-e 15 both had been
handed over to the State Children’s Depart-
ment by their parents as uncontrollable.
The institution apparently failed to reform
tlmm. Both girls are mothers and both,
after being released from the charge of the
State, were arrested and placed in a hos-
pital, from which they escaped and remained
at large until their shoplifting proclivities
brought them into fresh trouble. The mother
appeared in court and begged for leniency,
but the twins showed very little concern,
even when sentenced to 12 months’ imprison-
ment apiece. A curious feature of the shop-
lifting was that almost every theft was of
two articles, as alike as possible; the girls,
when arrested, were similarly attired in
stolen property.
* * *
“Oxmcad”: Baldwin’s reference to broc-
coli during his recent election campaign,
besides supplying material for countless jests,
lampoons and more or less humorous verse,
raised quite a brisk argument in the English
press as” to what broccoli is and wherein it
HIS JOB.
DAD: “You're always wanting. You come to me and expect me to splash my money
all over the place.”
DAUGHTER: “Well, you're the fountain-head, aren’t you, Dad?”
differs from the more widely-known cauli-
flower. The d.ctionary defines the former as
“a hardy variety of cabbage resembling
cauliflower.” In fact, one expert in Covent
Garden produce (quoted by the Daily
Chronicle) asserted that the only material
difference is that broccoli matures in the
winter and cauliflower in the summer. See-
ing that what we buy and eat in .Australia
as cauliflower is essentially a winter pro-
duct, can it be that this is really broccoli
miscalled? I don’t seem to remember ever
seeing broccoli, scheduled as such, in our
greengrocers’ shops.
:I* * *
“Eureka”: A now type of liar has
appeared in our midst. Bill Brown, the
Bondi fisherman, installed a new wireless
set in his home, and had a great time switch-
ing tlie dials about in an endeavor to pick
up various stations. “How is the wireless
going?” 1 asked him one day. “Getting any
new stations?” “Got a couple of small ones
last night,” he said, “but you should have
heard the two big ones that just got away !”
* :S * *
“X.S.”: The modern craving for news-
paper headlines expresses itself in various
ways. A 15-year-old Melbourne girl went
up to the traffic cop on duty at
the world’s busiest intersection
and handed him a note addressed
to the Chief Commissioner. Then
she retired to the pavement and
picturesquely fainted. On being
resuscitated she explained that
she had taken poison, which
moved the constable to hastily
tear open the envelope. “Some
people think life is all right. I
don’t,” was all the information he
derived from it. The force, now
thoroughly concerned, rushed the
victim off to the General Hospi-
tal. where a progaic examination
x-evealed nothing more lethal in the lady’s
interior than one of Mr. Clapp’s pure orange
drinks. A charge of offensive behavior closed
the chapter.
* * * *
“Pawang”: The other day a Melbourne
citizen who was not an authorised dentist
was heavily fined for extracting a molar from
a constable’s lower jaw, although the ama-
teur tooth-puller had been practising under
registered dentists for years, and his father,
a qualified man, was on the premises. No
doubt the law was in the right; yet what
a fool of a law it is! Recently one of Mel-
bourne’s leading Chinese herbalists decided
that he had amassed a large enough fortune
to warrant his return to China. Reluctant
to let a lucrative practice disappear he con-
sulted a compatriot who had spent his life
growing cabbages on the banks of the Yarra.
After a few weeks’ tuition the ex-market
gardener had absorbed all the wisdom the
retiring herbal'st had to impart, and now
his shingle brightly shines in one of the
city’s exclusive suburbs. There he pre-
scribes senna beans for gastric ulcer, and
so long as he does not call himself “doctor”
the law cannot touch him.
*
“Bargara”: Stones from Westminster
Abbey and York Minster are being de-
spatched from England for incorporation in
the fabric of Christ Church at Bundaberg
(Q.). Til's building claims to have been
the first in Australia to introduce this prac-
tice. It already cherishes bits from Canter-
bury Cathedral and St. Paul’s. London, the
latter by special favor of the Bishop of
London, who when in Australia visited
Bundaberg. A similar plan is being adopted
in connection with the R.C. Cathedral of the
Holy Name, Brisbane, soil, from Ireland
having already been used in stone-laying
ceremonials conduct'd by Cardinal Cerretti
at the time of the Eucharistic Congress.
“P.M.”: The remarks on the adminis-
trative shortcomings of learned University
professors (B. 29/5/’29) remind me of the
system of control in the Royal Flying Corps,
which still obtains, I believe, in the R.A.F.
and R.A.A.F. The flights and workshops
were under the direction of n.c.o’s and war-
rant-officers promoted solely on their tech-
nical ability. Every squadron carried in
addition a “disciplinary sergeant-major,” a
warrant-officer transferred from the fighting
forces —in my time they were mostly cavalry-
men with 20 years’ service or so. A flight-
sergeant controlled his men on technical
matters, and was responsible for his engines
and machines, etc., but if a mechanic came
on duty drunk or played up in any way he
was handed over to the sergeant-major, who
introduced him to the clink and pack-drill
and other incentives to sobriety. There
seems room for some such functionary in
more than one Australian university.
* * * *
“S.T.S.” : The East-West air service, Adel-
aide to Perth, had a curious experience at
starting. The big City of Perth carried three
officials, nine passengers and 40,000 letters,
and was seen off by a great crowd. But
Sunday, June 2, was the nearest approach
Adelaide has ever seen to a midsummer dust-
storm at Tibooburra. All the sand in
Centralia seemed coming dead against the
’plane on a gale varying from 70 to 80
m.p.h. It battled 60 miles in an hour
and a half, and then Major Brearley, the
pilot, realised that the petrol could not last
at that rate; so he turned and was swept
back to Adelaide at 140 m.p.h.
* * * *
“Mako”: Maoriland, like Sydney and Mel-
bourne, had considerable trouble with its
Uni. undergrads, until processions and other
outlets for exuberance were definitely for-
bidden. But the humor wasn’t always of
the uproarious type. Robert Stout, as Chan-
cellor, once had to speak at a Uni. function,
and began by requesting that all who found
his remarks void of interest should leave
the hall silently and without comment. Then
he plunged into his address, and at the first
sentence a couple of students arose, and with
cat-like tread sought the exit. They were
followed by others, until a couple of hundred
youths, all high-stepping noiselessly and
with exaggerated caution, filled the passages
and tip-toed to the door. Sir Robert, as one
familiar with the undergrad, in all his phases,
continued and finished his speech unmoved.
:{: . ‘"fi &
“C.Q.”: Three newsboys were spectators
of the correct technique for breaking into a
shop early one recent morning in Camber-
well, Vic. The thieves arrived in a motor-
car, abstracted a sheet of brown paper,
smeared it methodically with treacle, and
applied it to the window-pane. A smart
smack with a jemmy and the glass was
silently splintered, the fragments adhering
to the poultice. Five hundred pounds’ worth
of haberdashery was extracted, the crooks
taking no notice whatever of the boys.
* ❖ # ’fi
“Merris”: When the double-decked leave
’bus reached Petiteville, Colonel Blastem, of
the Fighting Nth, occupied the front seat
with a monocled colonel of the
Padre O’Flinn, lately with the Nth but now-
on Division, was on his way to the football
ground in shorts and guernsey, when he
recognised his old chief. “Hillo there, Bill!”
he chirped, jumping on to the wheel and
grabbing the other’s hand. “How tli’ Hill
are ye after y’r lave? ’Tis a crimson bit
o’ th’ line they’re sindin’ ye to, annyway.
Mud up to y’r lurid eyebrows, me blioy, and
the last C.O. drowned in his muddy dugout
in his scarlet slape.” The bus driver cut
short the flow 7 of eloquence by restarting
his engine. “Will, so long, ye ugly owld
love-child,” and after another fierce hand-
wrench O’Flinn descended and sped on his
way. “Rather a foul-mouthed subaltern,
that!” remarked the Guardie. “Subaltern!”
barked old Blastem. “That’s one of our
padres ! Dammit all, sir, d’you think I’d let a
flamin’ subaltern speak to me like that?”
* * * *
“F.X.”: It was at a recent sitting of the
Central Queensland Supreme Court, and D.
R. Watson, a well-known barrister, was
appearing for the defence. The jury was
being empanelled wffien the name “William
Sherlock Holmes” was called. A grin ran
round the court and Crown Prosecutor
O’Rourke called “Stand by,” adding “I feel
out of fairness I should do so, your Honor,”
“Well," said Judge Brennan smartly, “you
could hardly expect Mr. Watson to chal-
lenge him, could you?”
THE SYDNEY HARBOR BRIDGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Above the city, as if poised for flight,
There broods a monstrous thing,
A bird stupendous in the airy height,
With torn and broken wing,
A visitant of prehistoric might,
Whence soon the arch will spring.
One crooked pinion slants to empty air,
As if to soar amain.
Its ribs are tattered and its tendons bare.
Its mate it seeks to gain.
It waits like some carved devil of despair
That dooms a shrine profane.
A vast grey shape from some forgotten day,
When crude gigantic things
Swept in the steaming moisture for their
prey
On black and oily wings,
Out of the past, to ravage and to slay,
There on its perch it clings!
When I arise some morning clear and bright
Above my heavenly bay,
I wonder half-awake if in the night
When all the world is grey,
The clumsy leathern wings have taken flight
And flapped its bulk away.
N.S.W.
AUTHUR H. ADAMS.


“Hamer”: For those who find it hard to
reconcile themselves tp cremation the pro-
blem of the disposal of the dead presents
ever-increasing difficulties, even in Australia.
The house-full sign was put up at Waverley
Cemetery (Sydney) long ago, but, like astute
theatrical managers who are always able to
dig out a few spare spaces for specially-
eager patrons, the trustees have hunted round
for unoccupied lots, and found a few. In
the R.C. section a dozen untenanted spaces
have been located, and as much as £125 is
asked for one of these. This is not a record
price, for New York State has an exclusive
cemetery where the cheapest grave runs to
2000 dollars. Gabriel will know precisely
where to look for the millionaires if he has
any use for them. Incidentally, the Sydney
Crematorium, now three years old, is averag-
ing a trifle over one customer a day, and
lately had its 1000th incineration.
* * * *
“Swansider”; Westralia began its cen-
tenary celebrations by making a city of Fre-
mantle, the sandy seaport at the mouth of
the Swan where the settlement’s pilgrim
fathers landed a hundred years ago. Fre-
mantle was always the front door to the
capital, but it had to wait 60 or 70 years
NO TIME LOST.
FIFI: “Aren’t you sorry for Madge? She has just lost her husband."
MIMI: “Oh, yes, I know. But she’ll soon get over her sorrow. Her sort pines for a
second.”
before it occupied the same position with
reo-ard to the State, and for over 40 of them
its” most imposing’ asset was an immense
gaol built for the accommodation of Britain’s
“erring children,” 12.000 of whom arrived
between 1850 and 1868. The two men to
whom it owes most were C. Y. O’Connor,
the engineer and Bigjohn Forrest, the poli-
tician. The former designed the harbor
scheme which converted the place from what
was little more than an open roadstead into a
fine port towards the close of last century;
the latter diverted the English mail steamers
from Albany to Fremantle as soon as it was
fit to receive them. The same pair were
later to share the credit for W.A.’s biggest
engineering achievement, the goldfields water
scheme. O'Connor’s end was tragic; he com-
mitted suicide, driven off his balance, it
was said, by stupid criticisms prophesying
disaster for the second of two splendidly
successful undertakings. A statue overlook-
ing the harbor commemorates him.
* * * *
“Feng'-Shui”: ;The preparation for the
interment of Sun Yat Sen, the Chinese
statesman, in the new mausoleum at Nanking
involved one of the cheapest resumptions of
land in history. Through an area packed
with shops and dwellings, a broad highway
was driven with a typically Asiatic disregard
for private convenience and
public justice. Hundreds of
families were evicted, but the
Government, ever careful of
appearances, printed mounds of
forms and let it be known that
the devastated householders had
only to fill these in and submit
them to the Treasury to obtain
compensation. One foreigner,
whose villa stood in the way of
the Sun Memorial avenue, inno-
cently complied with the direc-
tions, presented his document
and received —one and sixpence.
* * *
“Chev.”: Two Adelaide air-
men, Norman Birks and S.
Hamilton, returning home from
the Essendon (Vic.) aerial
sports achieved one of the most
extraordinary feats in the his-
tory of local aviation. Forced
down by heavy rain and short-
age of petrol, they tried land-
ing in a paddock in the Mount
Lofty ranges. During their slide
to earth they perceived that
what they took for a clear space
had a fence running across it.
Birks, who was at the controls,
promptly grounded the machine,
allowed it to plough along for
a moment and then pulled hard
on the joystick. The ’plane
cleared the obstruction like a
hunter and lobbed safely in the neighboring
paddock.
~j t : :{j if: sfc
“C.Q.”: There is still treasure trove to he
found in Melbourne. The other day work-
men rummaging in the vaults of Parliament
House unearthed an immense crystal chande-
lier. The sort of work it contains would
cost a fortune to reproduce nowadays, and
a private individual offered the Government
£3500 for it, but it was hung in the library
instead.
* # * *
“Morkrum”: Astonishing as it sounds,
there are still a number of Sydney G.P.O.
employees who were in the service be-
fore the present building went up. One
at least learned to swim on the site thereof.
The George-street end, as far as the tower,
was completed in 1874. When, some years
later, excavations were commenced at the
Pitt-street end, the Tank Stream came to.
life and provided a fine swimming-pool for
the telegraph-messengers of the period. One
day a venturesome youth took off from the
third floor, struck a beam on the journey,
and reached the water with a broken leg.
That settled swimming in Pitt-street. The
old stream proved a nuisance, and that end
of the structure rests on solid concrete.
It was completed in 1885, and the present
tower went up about 1887.
* * * *
“Morita”: The disinclination of the
Maoris to extend any courtesies to the offi-
cers and crew of the German battleship
Emden may be partly due to the big gaps
the war made in the ranks of their manhood.
Casualties in their units were so severe that
the question of keeping up reinforcements
became a very serious one. To the disappoint-
ment of the Maoris themselves, their units
were kept out of the big stuff wherever pos-
sible during the closing stages of the war.
But the Maorilanders. as a body, buried the
hatchet on the Rhine, where, unlike the
A.1.F., they formed a portion of the army
of occupation. I met many of them in Lon-
don, on leave from Germany, and all spoke
highly of the treatment given them by the
average German citizens. They mixed freely
with men they had fought against, and
quaffed lager with them in the cafes,
* * * ... * ...
“Okabella”: Touching the liberality with
which hotel licenses were granted m the
early days of the W.A. goldfields, and the
scandals which sometimes resulted therefrom
(B. 5/6/’29), I recall a J.P. who drove 50
miles from the head of the railway line to
an outlying settlement in order that lie might
take his seat on the Bench when the fate of
an application was to be decided—two days
later. When he reached his destination some-
thing occurred to make him alter his mind,
and he returned home. There a telegram
reached him which evidently led him to recon-
sider the situation, and he made the journey
a second time, starting at midnight and
arriving only 10 minutes before the court
opened. His appearance turned the scale
in favor of the applicant, the other two
magistrates being at variance over the need
THINGS BETTER LEFT UNSAID.
MR. BILL: “That woman on the next floor is copying everything you wear.”
MRS. B. (who was yesterday again refused a rise in her dress allowance): “Don’t worry,
darling—she always was old-fashioned.”
for a new pub, and the license w T as granted.
But the Crown Law Department, which had
heard something of the double journey, be-
came suspicious, and the upshot of the
inquiry was that the J.P. with the change-
able mind was asked to resign his commis-
sion. He did so without making any fuss.
* * * *
“P.M.”: Schweiger, secretary of Vic. Agri-
cultural Society, lately returned from a trip
abroad and made the usual stock remarks
about the ignorance regarding Australia
which he encountered in other countries.
These wandering citizens who expect the
whole world to know all about Australia
remind me of old Dad Murphy, who was
booking a room at a. Melbourne hotel when
the clerk asked him if he had his wife in
town with him. “The darned ignorance of
these townies !” snorted Murphy. “Everyone
in Spud Flat knows I’m a bachelor!”
* * * #
“Pila”: The slang phrase “don’t care a
dump” is far older than any pies or sweet-
meats (B. 29/5/’29). In the early days the
dump was the centrepiece of the Mexican
silver dollar, the main currency of N. S.
Wales. It was found hard to keep these
coins here owing to the world-wide demand
for them, so the punching-out of the centres
was resorted to. The dumps were actual
coins, were stamped with “New South
Wales,” a crown, value and date (1813), and
they remained in circulation until about
1830.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: A man with a preponderance
of Maori blood may be legally a Maori in the
Shivery Islands (B. 20/5/’29), but in Java
a native with the least modicum of white
blood in his veins is a white man. This
attitude was settled in the early days of
Dutch domination, when practi-
cally every white overlord had a
brown mistress. It was feared
that the rulers would lose their
prestige unless the white ele-
ment, even when it was only a
vulgar fraction in the make-up
of a Madurese coolie, was re-
spected. The result has been
exactly the opposite. The totolc,
or pure white man. despises the
half-caste, especially when he is
set up in authority over him;
the pure native regards him as
a renegade and labels him with
the elegant name of buaya , or
crocodile. I once saw a Java-
nese opera in which the butt of
everybody was a witty carica-
ture of a fat. pompous Eura-
isan. A pretty little quadroon was my com-
panion, so I didn’t feel quite comfortable.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Add to the Coincidence com-
petition a marriage at Moculta (S.A.), in
the good-Australian but German-descended
community that abounds there. Miss Schil-
ling became Mrs. P. Fennig—which is old-
time German for Id.
* * * *
“Coot”: In both Sydney and Melbourne
telephone directories the Smith family occu-
pies most space, 12 columns in one case,
nine in the other. But second and third
places are filled differently; Brown and
Jones follow Smith in Sydney, Wilson and
Williams do it in Melbourne.
* * * *
“Philemon”: Insurance companies are suf-
fering from an epidemic of “accidental” fires
in North Queensland. Dwellings unoccupied
for months suddenly burst into flames, invari-
ably at night, and there is nothing tangible
on which blame can be fastened except the
match-gnawing proclivities of rats. In one
centre recently two alarms were received at
the fire station within a minute from sub-
urbs as far apart as they possibly could be.
One engine had left the station and the
second was preparing to answer the second
call when a fire was seen in another part of
the town. After this had been success-
fully coped with it transpired that both the
suburban alarms were false ones. At the
inquiry the magistrate remarked that the
reception of two false alarms was suspicious,
but it was impossible to sheet home the re-
sponsibility to any human being, so the
rats had to take it again,
* * * *
“Pomegranate”; To anyone fresh from
England there is something a little startling
in the Australian practice of naming a block
of flats a “court.” _ Whether it be a made-
over terrace running flush with a m 6an
street or a palatial pile with all the latest
improvements and conveniences, by tar the
most popular title is “court, usually pre-
fixed with some high-sounding patronymic.
In England this word “court” has been
given for centuries to the cluster of tene-
ments built round a central yard, which,
besides providing light, was usually the sole
source of communal water supply from a
well or stand-pipe, and site, often enough,
for the communal cesspool. It is strange
to find the ultra-modern cluster of exclusive
homes bearing the same brand as the slum-
warren Dickens held up to opprobrium!
* * * *
“X.S.”: Hobart Public Hospital is very
proud of an operation that was performed
by its surgeons recently. A man gashed
the back of his hand, severing four tendons.
After an operation to clear up the wound
it seemed almost certain that his hand
would be permanently disabled, there being a
gap of one and a half inches in the lines of
communication. A second operation was
decided on, and portion of the tissue covering
the fascia lata, the large muscle of the
thigh, was removed, twisted up like a coil of
paper and attached to the ends of the broken
tendons. The hand and fingers are now aa
well as ever.
* # * *
“C.”: Even isolated Norfolk Island is
being caught in the whirl of progress. There
are now eight stores, a dozen tennis courts,
some carrying agents, a lending library and
a professional artist, as well as several rival
sects. These amenities of civilisation are
mainly the result of the recent opening up
of the Melanesian Mission property, bought
by small farmers from Maoriland _ who
specialise in bananas. The influx is viewed
with little approval by the conservative
natives, although it has meant more trade
and a lucrative tourist traffic. They object
most of all to the newly-introduced motor-
lorries, which churn up the soft, loamy roads.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: The traffic was halted at
a Collins-street intersection, and the young
female in the luxurious limousine which
headed the queue took the opportunity to
roll a cigarette. Before she had finished
the traffic cop gave the signal to proceed, but
the young female remained with both hands
and both eyes completely absorbed in her
task. “Here, you,” shouted the exasperated
constable, “do you think you’re in your bood-
wah or what?” The girl never stirred an
eyelid, but the gigantic car slowly moved,
gathered way and made a beeline across the
street. The girl finished the preparation of
her gasper, put it in her mouth, lit it
languidly, laid two fingers on the wheel and
vanished from the disgusted copper’s sight.
* * * *
“X.D.”: MacNamara, P.M., of Melbourne,
refused a bondsman for an unusual reason
the other day. H'e objected because the man
was blind, and he liked bondsmen to see
him. If the Beak carried the argument to its
logical conclusion it might land him in
some curious predicaments. For instance,
he might find G. A. Maxwell, K.C., M.H.K.,
pleading a case before him. Maxwell has
not seen anybody’s face for many years, yet
he remains one of Melbourne’s leading coun-
sel.
* * * *
“Mond”: At Factory Corner during the
Somme freeze-up .we entered a bitter com-
plaint about the flavor of petrol in the water-
tins, and began to draw our supplies from
the cleanest-looking shell-hole we could find,
per medium of a" pick and sandbag. Ws
stuck to the ice from that shell-hole for a
couple of weeks, brewing tea every night,
and in the daytime, whenever smoke wasn’t
too conspicuous, in a German dug-out. Get-
ting towards the bottom of the hole, the pick
dragged up a human arm, and further inves-
tigations disclosed that two of the enemy
had started their long sleep under our water-
, supply. The doc. consolingly informed ns
that what germs weren’t frozen out of exist-
ence in the shell-hole would be boiled out of
it in our tea, but an immediate apology -went
to the Q.M.S. with a request that we be
added to the strength for tinned water again.
LEGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘We see millions of legs here,’ said the matron
of Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, interviewed on
the stockingless woman question, ‘and for the most
part they are extremely ugly and much better covered.
Only one woman in a thousand has nice legs.’ ”
But one lone pair whose charms repay
inspection,
Sister, in ev’ry thousand that you view?
To poets it’s a saddening reflection,
Also upon exhibits—if it’s true.
My only comment on your allegation
Is that so much depends on the precise
Meaning and the explicit acceptation
That you attach to “nice.”
The multitude of limbs you’ve estimated
Within your ken as coming, toes to knees,
Might render anyone a trifle sated,
Exacting, too, and difficult to please.
Times are when any shapely calf bewitches
As surely as the first faint flow’rs of
■ Spring,
But when you’ve an embarrassment of riches
It’s quite another thing.
When all together, in the altogether,
Three eager goddesses on Paris burst
With “Which is fairest?” did he scan their
nether
Extremities for points, I wonder, first?
Or did it cross his mind, d’you think, my
brothers,
Though Aphrodite might dispense with
clothes
And gain in grace, that either o’ the others
Would have looked better in hose?
Would he have faulted knees as over-bony
For beauty, or at shanks too plump have
shied.
Who’d nothing much to go by, save GEnone
Careering up and down the mountain-side?
Not so. In nymphs or divas straight from
Heaven
I’ll bet a comely shin and ankle trim,
Ev’n if the foot might be a six or seven,
Were good enough for him.
Millions of legs ! With such a vast collec-
tion
In mind, it were but natural to seem
A trifle critical anent perfection,
Captious regarding excellence supreme;
For us, denied so limitless a vision,
A less exalted standard may suffice....
Sister, I wouldn’t charge you with mis-
prision,
And yet, you know, ’tis lacking in precision,
That adjectival “nice.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


r J
Wa
w|
SWTOIWTON
SUPERMARBNES
P/ v me > Boats (4)
England - Austrohd -Singapore
75 arrived /Q 29
CM
Kose
ILANCASTIEIff 4
M"* 6 MItILIUEIR
England k> Australia
arrived 1^29
J V.
vrutsn.
Cirrus
IHIMmIUEIR
England to Australia
arrived /Q 29
England k> Australia
arrived 6
£
oAVofA 11
Sv^rom
2
PARER & M c INTOS IN!
England to Aosta ha
arrived !Q2O
m*
IRo§§ SMHTIHI
WEITM SMHTIHI
First Flight from Engltnd k Aostimhi
arrived /9'9
It is significant
that in every
flight from
Europe to
Australia the
Spirit used
was


SILVER-PLATED COFFEE SET
sd
Exceptional quality at
a bedrock price.
Silver-plated Coffee Set,
comprising Coffee Pot and
Hot-milk Jug, both with
W i c k e r-covered handles.
Capacity, 1 % pints each.
Sugar Basin and Tongs.
£6/7/6
The excellent design and finish of the Coffee Set illustrated will appeal
to the careful hostess. Each piece is extra heavily silver-plated on hard
white metal, and will last a lifetime in general use. A splendid gift
suggestion!
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney.
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
Follow the
Chan
TEXACO keeps your engine clean.
BUY FROM THE TEXACO VISIBLE OIL
SERVER BOTTLE, AND ENSURE:
Freedom from carbon
Clean Valves and Spark Plugs
Protection against heat and wear
Economy in consumption
High compression and more
power
TEXACO
CLEAN-CLEAR-GOLDEN
MOTOR OIL
PERSONAL
ITEMS
E. Milner Stephen is the seventh member
of his family to rise to a Judgeship in Aus-
tralasia. Two have been Chief Justices
(Alfred of N.S.W., and Sydney of M.L!),
and a third was N.S.W. Acting-C.J.; one
was a Judge in Victoria, and the other three
(one of them Milner’s great-grandfather)
were Supreme Court Judges in N. S. Wales.
This family—undoubtedly the most remark-
able legal family in the world—has been
turning out eminent lawyers for over two
centuries. It has given great Judges to both
England and India, and it has not so far pro-
duced a bad one. Incidentally, there are
plenty of young Stephens coming on, both
in Britain and Australia.
J. 11. Hammond, K.C., who gets a Supreme
Court Acting-Judgeship in N. S. Wales,
which will probably turn into a permament
appointment later, was, in the early days
of the Wages Board system, the best of the
group of professional chairmen. He pre-
sided in the manufacturing group, liked to
get down to practical details, and let union
advocates and trade experts go their own
gait as long as they brought out the facts.
He is an old Sydney Grammar boy.
A peck of trouble is likely to come from
Justice Campbell’s mistake about his age;
already one suit has been launched to upset
a judgment on the ground that, according
to N.S.W. law, ’Sonah had ceased to be
a Judge in December—he reached his 70th
year in the previous month.
One of the most familiar faces associated
with the Federal Parliament will be missed
when the House of Reps, reassembles. Bob
Mitchell, who has been in charge of the gen-
eral division of the Parliamentary staff since
the Commonwealth was hatched, has retired
after 49 years’ public service. Back in 1880
he joined the Vic. Parliamentary staff, and
holds a world’s record in having served under
IS Speakers, 12 Victorian and six Federal,
commencing with Charles McMahon, who
was succeeded by Peter Lalor. After a close
study of the 18, Mitchell holds that
Frederick Holder, the first Federal Speaker,
easily outshone all the others.
Vic.’s newest knight, Dr. Richard Stawell,
was given a specially cordial handshake by
Acting-Governor Chief Justice Irvine at the
King’s birthday levee in Melbourne. Staw-
ell’s dad was Acting-Governor on three
occasions when he was Chief Justice.
Herbert Phillipps, who gets the latest
knighthood in S.A., is a mixture of Business
and Philanthropy, and remarkable also lately
for defying Time. He was manager and one
of the founders of George Wills and Co.,
and since retiring has been president of a
host of things, from Chamber of Commerce
to Y.M.C.A. And still is, though he is half-
way through his 82nd year.
Marion Phillips, the first Australian-born
woman to become a British M.P., is a sister
of the Master-in-Equity of the Supreme
Court in Melbourne. She graduated from
Melbourne Uni. to the London ’Varsity, and
has taken a furious interest in politics all
her life. She claims to have been the first
to suggest compulsory voting in Australia,
though The Bulletin would not have
brought that up against the lady if she had
not mentioned it herself.
Apparently Sidney Webb, at 70, though on
principle opposed to titles of all sorts, will
take a peerage in order to help the new
British Labor Government as Secretary for
Dominion Affairs. Webb, who has grown
very tired of Parliamentary methods since
he entered the House of Commons in 1922,
declined to stand again at this election. He
has been a leader of the Fabian Socialists,
whose meetings were held in his house, which
is where H. G. Wells drank the waters of
Socialism. His wife has been his vigorous
co-worker in socialism for 45 years; they
and the present Lord Olivier wrote many
of the Fabian essays which had so great an
influence on Australian Labor at the birth
of the present party.
Colin Mackenzie, one of the new knights,
is best known abroad for his claim that the
Cohuna skull, a bit of primitive man dis-
covered in the valley of the Murray, com-
pletely acquits Australia of the charge of
being a young country. Mackenzie took the
occiput to England and argued its antiquity
before the Royal College of Surgeons, which
is arguing about it still. He was a bril-
liant orthopaedic surgeon, but retired in 1924
and devoted himself to dissecting Australian
fauna. His collection, the finest in the world
and reputed to be worth £lOO,OOO, was pre-
sented to the Commonwealth, which is erect-
ing a roof over it at Canberra, to cost a
similar amount. Scotch College, Melbourne,
claims him for one of her brightest sons.
Just died at Wellington (M.L.), Mrs.
Swanson, aged 88, one of the English girls
who enrolled under Florence Nightingale to
train in the new methods of nursing after
the Crimean War. Nurse Lyons, as she
then was, after working under Miss Nightin-
gale for four years, was despatched to Edin-
burgh Infirmary to institute the new
methods. In 1877 she sailed as matron on
the ship Carnatic for M.L., where she did
much good work in the early days. During
the last four years of her life she was blind.
Patrick Vincent Dwyer, who has been
directing R.C. affairs in Maitland (N.S.W.)
for nearly 30 years, has applied to Rome
for a coadjutor, and the choice has fallen
on the well-known Redemptorist missionary,
Father Edmund Glceson, head of the monas-
tery at Waratah (N.S.W.). Dr. Dwyer,
who has worn the purple for over 30 years,
is a son of a well-known former inspector
of N.S.W. State Schools. He is the recog-
nised ecclesiastical authority in these parts
on ceremonial, and has always had charge of
this R.C. department on State occasions.
The Bishop of Wagga (N.S.W.) is a brother.
Joseph Connor, the Tasmanian painter
whose faithful work has just secured him
space on a wall of the Paris Salon, is a
furniture salesman. The Hobart emporium
which pays his modest salary dabbles a little
in antiques as well as modern suites and
kitchen tables, and Joe does a bit of
nosing about auctioneers’ salerooms for
stray items of ancient furniture. Thus his
daily job is varied by an occasional dive into
the dusty bric-a-brac of last century, where
artistic discernment may help to earn com-
mission. Mabel Hookey, a fellow-Tassy,
also gets a place in the Salon.
Speacock, who was 68 yesterday, is quite a
youngster compared with fellow-workers
Downward (82) and Prendergast (75), of
Vic. Legislative Assembly. Richardson (74)
is the patriarch of the Leg. Council.
From an old Parliamentary hand: —
Brisbane’s king’s birthday levee was particularly
well attended by military, naval and professional
men. The Chief Justice sat next Deputy-Governor
Lennon; then came Moore, the new Premier, and
his Cabinet, every man jack of them new to office
except “Bishop” Barnes. Immediately behind sat a
number of McCormack’s late Government. Two places
near by were labelled “George Kerr” and “George
Jackson,” ex-Ministers of long ago. Only Jackson
showed up. Both have passed the 70 mark. But
ex-Senator Tom Glassey, having no card of private
entry, but in very good company indeed, came in
with the rank and file, shook hands, made his bow
and departed carying the burden of his 85 years
wonderfully well. Sir J. Goodwin’s absence inspect-
ing the Barrier Reef during the general election has
been commented upon, but not publicly, as far as
I know. He was not in Brisbane on Empire Day
to do the honors, and William Lennon was in the
limelight. Some people are now saying that as
economy is the order of the day, the Deputy Gov-
ernor’s job could very well be done by the Chief
Justice.
The Trudinger family of South Aus. holds
one Australian record. Six of its members
are missionaries i'n China, one in Korea and
an eighth in the Soudan.
The oldest recruit to the ranks of Costs
in N.S.W. was welcomed the other day,
when F. G. Adrian, who has a son well set
as a solicitor, secured his legal qualifications.
Adrian had no fancy for sinking into retire-
ment when he finished his course as a
Magistrate by bumping the age limit;
so, with a long police-court experience to
help him, he decided to pass his examinations
for the right to practise as a solicitor.
H. M. Itoyd-Jones, the sawbones on the
Orvieto,. was called upon to prescribe for a
sick child on another steamer for several
days while the two vessels steamed alongside
each other through the Indian Ocean. Con-
flicting reports as to the symptoms finally
led the doctor to go across in a ship’s boat;
he found then that the patient was suffering
from bacillary dysentery. Royd-Jones made
a log of the 23 wireless messages exchanged,
and has sent them to the British Medical
Association, which is at present engaged in
formulating an international code for use in
such circumstances.
Justice McArthur, of the Vic. Supreme
Court, got off a quip when a witness was
addressing him variously as “Your Honor”
and “Your Worship”—he said that, as a
fellow-wig had remarked, he didn’t mind be-
ing honored but objected to being wor-
shipped. The incident recalls how horrified
the late Major-General Downes, a very cor-
rect old soldier, was when Donald Melville,
Vic. Minister of Defence, called him “Ser-
geant-Major” or “Major,” just as the notion
struck him. Old Melville (who had dubbed
himself Minister for War and Pestilence, be-
cause he had the Health as well as the
Defence portfolio) had no appreciation of
military titles.
Joseph L. Pearse, the last of an old
Cornish pioneering family that landed in the
early ’fifties, has died in Charlton (Vic.)
at 91, after seeing the first of the Wimmera,
occupying a shire president’s chair, and
generally toiling
manfully until
within a few
months of his
death. His brother
Richard, ex-Mayor
of Ballarat, went
west a couple of
years since, aiming
at the century;
whilst another,
Thomas, was very
nigh the hundred
not out when the
Reaper called. Two
others, Geddie,
a senior school-
inspector, and
Nicholas, a big
landowner, died
earlier in life.
A C. C. HOLTZ,
general manager of
the Argus, whose
election as
governor of the
65th Division of
Rotary (Australia),
has just been con-
firmed at the
Dallas ( U.S.A. )
convention.
Michael Hawkins, ex-Controller-General
of Maoriland Prisons, who died a few days
ago, was an Irishman who migrated to Fern-
land in the middle ’eighties; got a job as
warder and building instructor in Wellington,
and supervised the convicts who built Mount
Cook Prison. Before he had reached the top
of his department he was preaching prison
reform to successive Ministers of Justice, and
finally had the satisfaction of seeing the
Borstal system established and proving its
ability to salvage human wreckage. He was
ft just and humane man, and left the M.L.
prison system much better than he found it.
James Meiklejohn Borron, who ended life s
journey at Suva last month, after passing
the _S2nd milestone, had friends all over the
Pacific. The scion of a Scottish landed
family that migrated to Lancashire in the
last days of the
First Charles, Bor-
ron came to Aus-
tralia in the
’sixties, was a
squatter till the
1871 drought nearly
cleaned him up, and
then went cotton-
planting in Fiji,
where he was in
succession manager
or owner of various
plantations. He was
for 10 years an un-
official member of
the Fiji Leg. Coun-
cil, and on retiring
was allowed to re-
tain his “Hon.”
DOCTOR DE
CRESPIGNY,
the eminent
Adelaide surgeon,
who flew to
Sydney the other
day to perform ark
operation
An inquiry as to whether Hugh D.
Mclntosh produced any credentials to assist
his acceptance in Britain as a Labor man
is causing a slight disturbance in N.S.W.
political Labor circles. It is suspected that
private introductions may have been given by
certain Labor politicians to serve instead of
the credentials he had no chance of obtain-
ing officially. When a reply is received to
a query that has gone to England there may
be a new row in the A.L.P.
Fiji has been celebrating the local jubilee
of a very remarkable woman —one of its
missionaries, Mrs. Small. The lady, now 74,
was a bride when she and her husband, Rev.
A. J. Small, landed in Levuka on May 29,
1879, from the brig John Wesley, after a
long and rough voyage. Mrs. Small assisted
her husband in his medical work —she once
performed a very neat operation on the
smashed jaw of a native. When, after mis-
sioning in various parts of Fiji, Small died,
his widow stayed on, to be a sort of mother
to-her E'ijian flock.
The Larkin Aircraft people have W. S.
Shackleton as their chief aeronautical engi-
neer and designer of the new all-Australian
monoplane, the Shackleton
obtained his groundings at the Louis Bleriot
plant in France- —BFeriot, of course, was
one of the pioneers of aviation. Then he
joined up with Beardmores, with whom he
rose to chief designer. The Larkin co. took
him from the big Scotch concern two years
ago. The Lascoter will soon be speeding
from Melbourne to Hay as a passenger and
parcel express.
THE SLIP JUDICIAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Action is being taken to try to invalidate recent
judgments of N.S.W. Justice Campbell on the ground
that they were delivered when he was past the
retiring age, his Honor having discovered that he
was in error about the year of his birth.”
He’d mastered all the lore a legal man
Requires for any job—a Judge’s even—
From Institutes of old Justinian
Down to the Commentaries writ by
Stephen.
With case- and statute-law his brains were
packed,
Full as an egg of meat is, I’ll engage.
In short, it seems the one material fact
Whereon he made a bloomer was his age.
Textbooks galore he’d at his finger’s ends,
In pleadings skilled at precedents pro-
ficient,
Till chaps who call each other learned
friends
Had come to look on him as near-
omniscient.
The vagaries of John and Richard Doe
Ne’er worried him (like you or me) to
rage.
In fine, the only thing he didn’t know—
Or thought he knew and didn’t —was his
age.
E. C. CUTTEN, Senior Magistrate in M.L.
He’d studied writs and processes and courts
As closely as a bishop cons his Bible;
Could quote whole slabs of Pollock upon
Torts
And lengthy hunks of Odgers upon Libel.
From Coke on Littleton to Byles on Bills,
He was a mine of knowledge sound and
sage;
Nathless —and what a lesson it instils! —
His Honor crashed about his Honor’s age.
Who said De minimis non curat Lex?
I find that well-worn aphorism vex
When all the fat is in the fire because
His Honor didn’t know how old he was.
N.S.W.
T. the R.
TO A TRAVELLER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Barbara Baynton, in latter days Lady Headley,
a long-ago Bulletin story-writer and writer
of one or two novels that brought her high
praise, died a few days ago in Melbourne.
So you’ve gone that farthest journey, Bar-
bara Baynton !
You, who’d crossed the seven seas
Till your crossings were as many as your
years were,
Lie, it seems to us, at ease.
May we gather round and praise you, Bar-
bara Baynton?
We who’ve thanked you many a time
In the company of friends or in the silence,
Let us thank you, in a rhyme,
For the courage of your never-flinching
stories,
Written with your heart aflame,
Like the glittering of gum-leaves on a hill-
side,
All the summer still the same!
For your strange, unconquered laughter let
us praise you,
Laughter in the clutch of pain,
Through the fever and the horror of a
drought-time,
Through the lonely screen of rain.
So we hail you on your journey, Barbara
Baynton,
You, who know what you have known.
Are you blazing tracks, we wonder, through
the cosmos,
As you blazed across the ways of lonely
people
When you knew them for your own?
VICTORIA.
NETTIE PALMER.


“SHE LOVES ME—NOT.”
“Mr. Baldwin the British Prime Minister, having failed to win the votes of the millions of flappers he enfranchised, resigned, and Mr. Ramsay MacDonald undertook
to form a Cabinet.”
Poverty
Point
“Colanne”: Though Gladys Moncrieff is
but a memory and a name to her native
town and original stamping-ground of Bun-
daberg (Q.), that capital of Sugardom clicks
as one stalk of cane in adulation of Mollie
de Gunst, the Sydney-trained songstress who
is singing “leads” with the De Rigo Opera
Company recently launched on tour. Daugh-
ter of a pioneer "farming family that is held
in high esteem in the sugar area, Mollie
(especially when at home) has made no pre-
tence to be than a jolly young farmer’s
lass, and the reception she gets from the
populace is heartfelt. Dad and Mum, in
their homely way, are Mollie’s very excellent
press agents; they miss no chance to keep
their girl before the local papers.
“Imogen”: Ashton Jarry’s first-rate work
in the name-role in “Dracula” at Sydney
Palace recalls other high-grade performances
on his part. Jarry has been out of the
theatrical firmament for some time, but
nearly all his character parts are happy
memories. He came to Australia with Marie
Tempest and Graham Browne, and with them
gave the Australian stage Mr. Pim. His
rendering of Pim as a gangling, peering old
fossil, though so different from Boucicault’s
classic interpretation, was quite the equal
histrionically of the more familiar perky
little busybody. With Marie Tempest Jarry
was the tertium quid in “Tea for Three” ;
clever work. With Laurence Grossmith he
was an admirable villain Count, and he made
a thing of life the boss-priest in Bates Post’s
“Green Goddess.” After that Jarry staged
a number of two-part dramatic sketches in
vaudeville. There is no better player on the
Australian stage to-day of sardonic villains,
especially those with a touch of foreign
accent; and he can wear a dress suit with
an air.
“F.S.”: “Hayband’s” story (B. 29/5/’29)
of the musician who visited Melbourne and
faked his programmes, with the result that
tlie critics all condemned him for shortcom-
ings in pieces he hadn’t played, fails to im-
press me. At present one of Melbourne’s
critics is a cathedral organist, another is
a teacher of counterpoint at a local eon-
servatorium, a third is an ex-operatic singer
with a London reputation, and a fourth is
a leading conductor and composer. The
local newspapers have employed experts of
this calibre for as far back as I can re-
member. That such a body could be taken
in by the crude bluff described by “Hayband”
is, to say the least of it, remarkable.
“F.S.” : The fact that the adult multitude
is not being attracted in the old numbers
forces one to the melancholy conclusion that
Pavlova’s first season was la.rgely a success of
curiosity and that there is little discriminat-
ing worship of Terpsichore in these days of
the Great Jazz Deity. There is always a
nucleus of people to whom her show is a more
voluptuous banquet and unalloyed delight than
grand opera, because it is as good to look at
as to listen to, whereas you never know with
opera if, while your ear is being wooed with
melodious sounds, your eye isn’t going to be
assaulted by the spectacle of a perspiring
prima donna, weighing 17 stone, announcing
herself as Madame Butterfly. Pav. and her
fauns and sylpliids are as lovely in their
physical proportions as in their motions, and
their pantomime is infinitely more explan-
atory than a fat tenor banging his chest and
bellowing incomprehensible Italian. But
nowadays dancing is only understood as a
form of calisthenics.
“Macann”: The night I saw “Dracula”
at Sydney Palace a woman screamed
industriously at a time when everyone about
her was mildly amused at the mechanical
thrill stuff. If she had seen what I saw,
she might have struck a record high note.
It tripped lightly up three of the d.c. steps,
sniffed at my boot, turned at right angles,
ran across the aisle and over the hysterical
lady’s toes —only a mouse, but at least a
greater thriller than that stage offering.
“Cauboy”: A characteristic of histrions
which distinguishes them from all other
practitioners of Art is their engaging mod-
esty. No composer of tripey melodies that
I am aware of has taken a trade name like
Richard Wagner Tschaikowsky van Beet-
hoven ; nor has a purveyor of popular fiction
adopted a cognomen such as Robert Louis
Conrad de Galsworthy. .But a recent femi-
nine recruit to the commercial boards in
Australia, a lady of no overwhelming acting
ability, has graciously appropriated the sur-
name of England’s greatest woman actress;
and a who has managed to secure
one or two small parts on the professional
boards has paid the world’s second-greatest
dead tragedian a similar compliment. And
there are dozens of other instances.
“Hamfat”: Ernest Turnbull, Federal pre-
sident for years of the R.S.L., who has been
appointed managing director in Australia of
British and Dominion Films, has had a good
apprenticeship in the movie business. He
has been associated with Professor Wallace
in Commonwealth censorship, and ought to
know at least what it is best to leave out.
Apart from that sort of knowledge, he has
learnt much while generally directing a
series of films of Australian life which are
distributed in England and America to
advertise the Commonwealth and its indus-
tries. The B. and D. Films intend making
talkies in Australia, and are looking for an
Australian girl who can take the leading-
parts.
“Clarionet”: Because the Newcastle
(N.S.W.) Musical and Literary Society gave
an entertainment on Good Friday night and
charged admission its two chief executive
officers have been convicted. Yet thousands'
of pounds are charged for admission to the
Sydney Show on Good Friday year after
year. Is the law worse than an ass, or
where comes the difference?
“Lysander”: Knighting of Gordon Craig
as a representative of the stage in the 1929
Honors List recalls the legend that this
handsome son of wonderful Ellen Terry,
through his combination of manly grace and
novel aspirations in the direction of making
the theatre more art-y, is the original of the
greenery-yallery youth Gilbert immortalised
as Bunthorne. Craig was the Owen Nares
of his era, the idol of flapperdom and the
beloved of the gods, and his ideas on pro-
duction were a lustrum ahead of his time.
Later his passion to “artify” the stage
found expression in presentations that have
become a standard of excellence. He did
most of his acting under the greater Irving.
“D.C.”; No doubt the Sundry Showman
in criticising Gregan McMahon’s producing
of “Dracula” at Sydney Palace had in mind,
among other things, the Alsatian werewolf
which leaps on to the stage through a
window. The night I saw the play the
hound thudded in as if it had been heavily
pushed, and then the lowering of the cur-
tain while someone rushed on and put the
dog in position to suck the young lady’s
throat absolutely ruined continuity. Worst
of all, however, was the acknowledgment in
the programme that the hound in the piece
was a champion Alsatian, kindly loaned by
somebody’s kennels, which spoilt what would
otherwise have been a first-class surprise
incident.
“Cine Ma”: The talkie people are jubilant
over the fact that nearly all the virtuosi
who have visited Australia this season have
been failures financially. Erica Morini’s
contract was cancelled when she' got to
Adelaide, and her employers were compelled
to cut their losses. The Williams-Murdoch
concerts have not been overcrowded, and the
dust lias remained undisturbed in the upper
gallery of the Auditorium with successive
performers. Still, I refuse to be impressed
with the claim that this is due to the superior
charms of the talkies. Friedman and Zim-
balist were failures in 1927, and Backhaus
and Heifetz were only moderate attractions.
Paderewski was the only trump card the
impresarios played in that year; yet the
talkies hadn’t even been heard of.
“Goldilocks”: According to a cable, the
effort to obtain the extra dimension —depth-
in a film has been successful, and the movie
which looks something more than a picture
thrown upon a screen has been produced ;
moreover, it has been produced as a “talkie,”
so the complete, apparently-real stage effect
has come into the movies. A theatre was
built in New York a couple of years ago
with this extra dimension for its objective.
“Bond.”: “The Merry Widow” has made
an odd reappearance in Germany, where
Lehar, the composer, has dished up a new
edition for the popular favorite, Fritzi Mas-
sary. Lehar, while keeping the famous waltz
and much of the music of 25 years ago, has,
in deference to supposed modern demands,
cut out all the Balkan business, shifted the
scene to Central America, and added some
jazz tunes and negro dances.
“E.M.C.”: Comedian Frederic Bentley,
who was uncommonly funny as the Hard-
boiled Herman of “Rose Marie,” will be here
again towards the end of July, most likely
to play in the Firm’s production of “The
Show-boat.”
“Dramofilm” : “Dynamo,” Eugene O’Neill’s
latest play, has disgusted many critics who
were ardent admirers, including even his dis-
coverer, Nathan, who describes the piece as
an “amateurish, strident and juvenile con-
coction.” The play deals with a mechanical
crank, who is convinced that in electricity
he has found the immortal soul of all life
and the true Deity. Most of plays
are difficult to act satisfactorily owing to
his lengthy stage directions, but “Dynamo”
calls for impossibilities. In one part the
playwright desires the actor to suggest “life-
long resentful frustration.” The first act
contains 39(5 similar directions. It recalls
Barrie’s reply when asked by an actor with a
two-line part what he desired him to suggest.
“Endeavor to suggest,” said Barrie, “that
you are the son of an ardent Presbyterian
with a taste for port wine.”
“Crank On”: “Cine Ma” lately asked
Poverty Pointers to believe that a new dis-
ease. Ivleig tonsils, had sprung up owing to
shadow mummers having to open their
mouths in talkie parts. But in movies
•the players have always spoken their pieces,
their mouths rayed by the Ivleig arcs.
“Fanteil”: An Australian comic opera,
“The Passion Flower,” may be heard before
long. Jack O’Hagan, a mixer of syncopated
melodies, is responsible for the score, while
the libretto is from the pen of two Mel-
bourne journalists. Stranks and Bridgman.
It has been played over to representatives
of the Firm, and if it finds its way in front
of the scenery theatre-goers will be enlight-
ened about love methods in the Andes.
ART FOR ART’S SAKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Art, whether clothed or in tights, is still art.”
Sydney Sun.
Some sell their souls to popes and kings;
With tongue in cheek they gravely swear
Their faith for what return it brings—
They serve not men, but robes men wear.
Art .is my ever gracious goddess;
I homage pay, no matter whether
She glides in petticoats and bodice,
Or holds court in the altogether.
With uncomplaining loyalty
I follow her from shore to shore;
To Florence, Venice and Paree;
To climes where dwelt she much of yore;
To where she rears her spires prophetic
On Notre Dame, and then o’. nights
I contemplate her lures cosmetic
Revealed in gaily-tinted tights.
Clothes make the man, and woman, too;
Frail mortals their own flaws repair;
The stout with Gossard’s aid pursue
The slender line, the youthful air.
But Art, or long or short or stout,
Doth no such camouflage require;
Adorned with clothes or quite without
Her graces still my song inspire.
N.S.W.
H. HUKKABUKK.


3®?
&
'S
I
ft*
Z
\\y
m
'1 ~'
i' r i.
■^<l
/'/
mm
y
s=^
Vj&i
40;?
§
\ I
rp
fe
,■ a
/N:
6
«»te»fc
-
W? C.wcNTWORTn J
in
Champion RESERVE
PORT
OWH BOTTLING
MAS HARDY £ SONS LTBI
AIDE.NELBOURNE ESYONE^
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN WINE ..:
L3LTJ&
a
"C2nis/ocmizc Pioneers .”
HARDY’S WINES OF TIN TARA


fsd
TOURIST
Shirts
12/6
MADE
TO
MEASURE
—and from English Shirtings in Self-
toning Blues and Mottled Effects. No
shirt fits as well or is as comfortable
as one made to your Measure, and
the Price is no dearer than a ready-
to-wear garment. Tailored in our
own Workrooms.
Send for patterns and measurement
forms.
12/6 to Measure and 3f p.e. Discount for Cash.
ROTHWELLS OUTFITTING
EDWARD STREET
BRISBANE
VICHY
fc.
mm
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—-Insist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
If Coming to Sydney for
Polo Week or Sheep Show
STAY AT
USHER’S
s? e
P e
Aes
Centrally located,
Usher’s has estab-
lished a reputa-
tion for the ex-
clusive quality of
its cuisine and the
superior quality of
its service.
Every convenience—honest comfort.
Book your accommodation now.
Inclusive Term;; or Special Tariff.
USHER’S HOTEL
Opp. Theatre Royal, Sydney.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address: “Usherotel, Sydney.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Desert Song”
Criterion “Applesauce”
Royal “This Year of Grace”
Palace “Dracula”
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s Pavlova
Royal “The Five-o’clock Girl”
King’s “The p atsv”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
One ad.-writer hit upon a happy phrase
among all the “mightys,” “splendids,” "mag-
nificents” and “gorgeouses” squeezed into
advance descriptions of Sydney State
Theatre. He began his boost: "When the
State opens its amazing doors.” “Amazing”
seems just the right text for a review of
the opening night—not to be used in regard
to the theatre itself, which is a lavish ex-
ample of architecture, but very impressive in
general effect; a show-house in every sense
of the term.
The theatre was opened last Friday night
in the presence of the Governor-General and
State Governor, sundry members of Parlia-
ment, a stray Judge or two, innumerable
journalists and royally-hued ladies and
ushers. Before this distinguished gathering
Mr. E. A. Buttenshaw, Acting-Premier, per-
formed a touching vaudeville act.
High in the dress-circle, this Showman
watched Mr. Doyle, the man chiefly respon-
sible for the theatre, step out from between
the curtains and begin an address. A tiny
figure he made away down there —like a
white-breasted black beetle reared on its hind
legs. He was speaking, but there was no
personal contact with the frozen heights.
He was a lay figure fitted up with a voice,
and representing not only the State Theatre,
but the moving-picture industry—the tre-
mendous thing that lias grown up in the
world in a handful of years. Its power has
been seen wonderfully at work in Sydney
these last few weeks. The whips have
cracked and the dailies and those they in-
fluence have stepped to the tune, even to
the exteht of dramatic critics writing adver-
tisements.
Mr. Doyle took his time. He gave credit
where it was due among all those who had
helped in building the theatre. One looked
around the great sweep of the dress-circle,
saw the high plush-lined dome that reacts
gorgeously to light, felt the comfort of the
seats, the carpet giving under the feet, and
PAT KENDALL, of a graceful dancing pair in “This Year
of Grace” at Sydney Royal.
remembered the floral and picture-lined rest-
rooms and aisles outside the auditorium, and
agreed heartily with Mr. Doyle that those
responsible deserved thanks. Mr. Doyle
thanked them collectively and individually,
from the bricklayers to the ushers, and then
said he would call upon Mr. Buttenshaw to
perform the opening ceremony. He stepped
back a pace or two, drew aside the heavy
flower-embossed curtain, and presto!—Mr.
Buttenshaw! There he stood, the leading
citizen of the land, the Acting-Premier,
waiting behind the rag for his cue from Mr.
Doyle! Now he is ready to bow to the
applause, to step forward, like another white-
breasted black beetle, and do his turn.
A polished performer. You sense it even
from away up here as soon as he begins to
speak. He is smiling broadly, though, of
course, you cannot see the smile. Flout-
ingly he reminds you of Vine, of the Vine
and Russell Tivoli duo, about to sing “All
by Yourself in the Moonlight.” Instead,
he begins: “Before I entered this building
I felt that I had a good deal to say.”. It
is a disappointing opening. But wait a
moment. This is no ordinary artist. He
leans upon your sympathy, and just when
you have given it to him he stands erect,
asserts that the theatre is “magnificent,”
also that it is the “finest in the British
Empire,” and pauses, challenging you to
contradict. Also, he, too, uses the word “amaz-
ing.” “The building,” he says, “is an amaz-
ing tribute to the craftsmanship of Austra-
lian workers.” He has been told, he adds,
that 00-odd per cent, of everything con-
nected with it is Australian. He harps on
this note. He gives you clearly to under-
stand that you should be amazed at Aus-
tralians being able to do anything. You get
sick of the back-yard outlook of Mr. Butten-
shaw. You feel irritated at the implied in-
sult to Australia, all the harder to take
because it is coming at you from an Aus-
tralian. You can hear this sort of parish-
pump nrovincialism every day in the week
without having it hurled at you by your
Acting-Premier. You utter a pi-ayer that
the day may soon come when beings who
express astonishment at the. fact that Aus-
tralians are capable of doing things that
others can do will be publicly scragged.
You look around the theatre; it is a splendid
achievement; but what amazes you most is
that an Australian Acting-Premier is stand-
ing down there implying that its being Aus-
tralian is a miracle .... Well, he has ended
—though his turn hasn’t quite. He stands
stock-still. From either wing advances a cos-
tumed trumpeter. They stand at a careful
distance from the now-mute, performer. Their
trumpets resound: there is a hush, some
applause. The great statesmanlike act is
over.
Now the theatre is opened. The other
stage performances —the ones that will be
repeated—are got going. The first half is
an odd mixture of talking pictures and what
are called “stage presentations.” In one
talkie A 1 Jolson repeats Mr. Buttenshaw’s
act, with only slight variations —a striking
example of plagiarism on the stage. He
also opens the
theatre and calls
upon a string of
other picture-play-
ers to do likewise.
The stage offerings
include some fine
orchestral work.
The performers are
perched on a re-
volving platform,
and thrown in with
their turn are all
sorts of separate
items. It is a feast,
of a kind. Then
comes “The Patri-
ot,” a great picture;
mostly silent, but
occasionally helped
along by noise or
words, and truly
worthy of its costly
setting. In it Emil
•Tannings, perhaps
the greatest char-
acter actor on the
screen, gives one of
his greatest per-
formances, though
whether it is a
particularly appro-
priate show for a
“gala night” is an-
other matter. It
will be reviewed in
Shadow Shows.
-v-
Even more than
when you are act-
ually seated in its
midst, the lavish-
ness, the outspread
spacious ness of
that new theatre
becomes impressed
upon the mind
when next night
you find yourself
seated in another
—a n old and
crumbling haunt
like the Criterion. Here if you stand upright
in the d.c. your head is only a foot or so from
the floor of the gods. There are only a few
dozen seats huddled together; in the other
place they stretch out innumerable. While
the lights are on, the walls, the squat col-
umns of the boxes, the backs of seats, the
supporting posts, all seem a little shabby.
The little place wherein the Broughs so
often sparkled has had its day, and now
awaits the knacker.
The lights dim, and Ruth Nugent, Alan
Bunce and party begin to play “Applesauce”
(the tongue lingering on the ‘apple ), a
comedy in three acts by Barry Conners. It is
a domestic story—two acts of the wooing of
a girl by two beaus and her taking of the
poor but romantically inevitable one, and
then one act in which they try love in a
room above a drug store and at last win
over their in-laws. The theme of the comedy
is “applesauce,” IJnited States for something
that is expressed here only in a word that
was used familiar-
ly of Birdwood by
the Diggers. Bunce.
as the successful
beau, hands apple-
sauce out liberally,
proving that there’s
nothing like it for
helping anybody
through a hard
world. The comedy
is packed with
homely humor. It
is truer than life
can ever hope to
be, because is is a
brilliantly sifted
glittering of many
dishfuls of life.
Seeing it acted as
Alan Bunco, Miss
Nugent and George
Henry Trader act
it, you are given
the illusion of not
only watching but
sharing in an up-
roariously laugh-
able and exquisite-
ly human story.
Moreover, as you
share in it, chuck-
ling or laughing
outright, you are
aware that you are
sharing with a
great company.
Without switching
even momentarily
off the play, you
get to know that
all about you are
tossing and bob-
bing and gurgling
and lia-ha-ing with
laughter. You are
one of a party of
choice spirits.
Everything is near
and intimate. You feel you know all these
people about you and those on the stage
personally, and the humanity of the play has
made you like them all. Just as well do you
know the surroundings, no longer tawdry,
but warm and friendly, like a room that you
have lived in and filled with books.
It is about now that your thoughts be-
come retrospective, and you are sitting back
in that vast auditorium—a small, an insig-
nificant shrinking speck in a world of col-
ored light and climbing tiers, under high
arch and three-ton chandelier. You try to fit
this play into those surroundings, and you
realise that they would kill it—dwarf it as
the night before they dwarfed Parliamentary
status and prestige. And now the curtain
has fallen on. Mr. Bunce trying to eat a
burnt scone, and has gone up again while
the little theatre rocks with the din of
applause. You have been in personal con-
tact with that fine band of players and with
every other being in the placeperhaps
you go away thinking that there is such a
thing as gold that does not glitter.
* ¥ #
Select audiences rubbed noses with the
intellectual drama four times last week at
the Kelvin Hall, Melbourne, where the
Repertory Society, in three one-acters, dis-
played more talent than is sometimes seen
on a stage 10 times the size.
“The House with the Twisty Windows,”
by Mary Pakington, concerned Janies Rop.er,
K.C., Teresa Lady Ponting, Charlie Clive
and others, all carefully chosen to represent
various sections of Britain’s ruling classes,
who are flung into prison by the Soviet while
the Red Terror rages outside. One of the
prisoners is a girl who speaks Russian, and
is haled from time to time before the com-
missars to give evidence about Derrick
Moore, an Irishman who is engaged in stir-
ring up counter-revolutionary feeling. A poli-
tical realist might say that it is the obvious
duty of a responsible Government —and the
Soviet was the responsible Government of
the moment —to suppress, if necessary with
a bullet, any foreigner whose activities are
calculated to start a civil war resulting in
the deaths of thousands of innocent people.
Public opinion in this country has been
waiting for a long time for Mr. Bruce to do
something of that sort. _ Therefore, the pre-
sent writer felt no particular sympathy for
Derrick. In the play, however, the drama-
tist. is not concerned with political realities,
and narrows the subject down to the some-
what hackne3 7 ed melodramatic device of
introducing a man who nobly impersonates
the escapee and gets himself shot in order
to facilitate the release of the English cap-
tives. Despite its incipient fustian, how-
ever, the scene in the prison-cell was exceed-
ingly effective on the whole, and the various
conditions of nervous tension in the prisoners
were fairly well portrayed by Edgar A.rnold,
Betty Rae, Alba Zacutti and Eric Donald ;
while Terence Crisp, as the pseudo-Derrick,
loaded his part with a nonchalance that was
a little too admirable for a man who, while
in love with one of the captives, deliberately
selects death for a bride.
TUI BLACK, with “The Five-o’clock Girl,” at Melbourne Royal.
“The Marble God,” by Stephen Schofield,
was a comedy in a Cornish boarding-house
of no unusual merit, and was mainly memor-
able for the rich humor of Arthur Davies —
a humor which struck this Showman as
largely of the unconscious order.
W. W. Jacobs’s “The Monkey’s Paw” was
the concluding number, and creates the atmo-
sphere of brooding horror, magic and mys-
tery which Edgar Wallace thinks he creates
but never does. It was so excellently done
that The Bulletin contents itself with
mentioning the fact that' K. E. Roberts was
the producer and that Howard Smith, Ruby
May, John Shelley, Harold Harwood and
Arthur Davies comprised the cast.
The Welsh Choral Society of Sydney bit
off more than it could comfortably chew when
it essayed a performance of Elgar’s setting
of Stiapcott Wensley s poem “The Banner of
St. George” at the Uni. Con. on Saturday
night. E. H. Jones is a capable conductor
and made the best of the choral and instru-
mental material at his disposal, but the parts
were ill-balanced—too many sopranos and
too few bassos. To an audience whose only
recollection of the larger choral works of
Elgar was the Sheffield Choir’s wonderful
presentation of “The Dream of Gerontius”
20 years ago, “St. George’s Banner” wasn’t
very impressive, though the virility and
originality of Elgar’s themes made the per-
formance interesting. The W.C.S. needs
many more male singers.
* * «
Adelaide Repertory had wicked luck in
presenting Eugene O’Neill’s “Gold.” Ambi-
tious work for amateurs, anyway: a New
England ship’s captain who finds a chest of
old jewels, etc., on a desert island and hides
it-; allows two of his small crew to be
knifed by the others to increase shares ; goes
home and talks about it all in his sleep, thus
gradually killing his wife; finally becomes
insane and dies without ever handling the
treasure, which —the point is left open—was
very likely only brass-and-glass. Basil Har-
ford’s fine voice was to beef out the curses
and the ravings of this, the one character
that matters; but he took the k.o. with ’flu,
and they had to be read from the book.
Then the two recent blights of the Rep.,
inaudibility and “dragging,” settled- on the
players. Ethelwyn Robin saved the situa-
tion when on, but unaccountably played the
wife as a crone of 80. Colin Ballantyne
and Christine Anderson showed promise
among the younger people.


INSURE WITH THE
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Company—
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KINO, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
WW7HY have 38,000 Managing Directors and Department
Heads enrolled for the Alexander Hamilton Institute
Course? Aren’t they too busy to read such a Course?”
The answer is that many of these men have never read the
Course through, and never will. The thing which makes the
Institute Course different is just this: you can dip into it at
any point and find immediately a practical method, plan or
idea, worked out and proved by the biggest men in business,
which you can put to work at once.
"Forging Ahead in Business,” which contains full information about the
Alexander Hamilton Institute, is yours for the asking. Send for it.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
XX CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY, ns.w. b 4
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etr
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia.
Dividends Writ- To
Mar., Profits. (8 p.c.). ten Off. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1919*. 145,099 78,789 10,000 56,310 1,130,234
1920.. 299,781 160,000 20,000 119,781 1,250,015
(9$ p.e.)
1921.. 336,610 190,000 20,000 126,610 1,376,625
Bank of Queensland purchased.
Premiums on new shares, £163,164.. 1,539,789
(10 p.c.)
1922.. 350,168 203,050 25,000 122,118 1,661,907
Premiums on new shares, £14,739.. 1,676,646
1923.. 442,178 272,560 40,000 129.678 1.806.324
Premiums on new shares, £191,823.. 1.998,147
1924.. 498.168 307.973 40,000 150,195 2,148,342
Premiums oil new shares, £ 167,529. . 2,315,871
1925.. 538,833 400,000 40.000 98,833 2,414,704
1926.. 568.254 400,000 50,000 118,254 2,532,958
1927.. 581,645 400,000 70,000 111,645 2.644,603
Premiums on new shares, £411,577.. 3,056,180
1928.. 640,401 498,086 50,000 92,315 3,148,495
1929.. 659,278 500,000 50,000 100,278 3,257,773
*Six months.
Chief cause of the glitter in last year’s
figures was a substantial increase of
£3,904,702 in advances, most of it in the
latter half of the term. This was accom-
panied by a growth of £2,212,612 in interest-
bearing deposits—current accounts were
£391,226 lighter—and a shrinkage of
£2,112,872 in liquids. The spring in the
year’s gross profit was £53.611, but exes.,
including an additional £20,667 for taxation
(£124,998), took £34,734 of the increase.
Thus the net result benefited by £18,877,
reaching 13.2 p.c. on average capital com-
pared with 12.8, 14.5, 14.2 and 13.4 p.c. back
to 1925.
These very satisfactory ratios, which pro-
vided a comfortable margin over the 10 p.c.
div., were greatly assisted by the nice pile of
visible reserves, equal to nearly two-thirds
of the paid capital at March 31. And, of
course, book values have the additional pro-
tection of that shock-absorber* the inner re-
serves, which are believed to be substantial.
In connection with the premises item alone,
no less than £410,000 has been whisked
away over the last decade. The co.’s risks
are well scattered over Australia; at the
close of accounts 51.3 p.c. of them were in
country districts and the other 48.7 p.c. at
city and suburban branches. Moreover, only
19 p.c. of the total advances exceeded £lOOO
each. This multiplication of securities
should not only tend to lessen the chance of
big losses, but can be a great factor in
further extending goodwill. The growth of it
has been very remarkable in the past decade.
Only a dozen years ago the National
attracted not much attention outside Vic. and
S. Aus. Since then an ambitious manage-
ment has pursued a vigorous policy of expan-
sion, by amalgamation and otherwise. This,
in addition to advancing the institution to
third place amongst the associated banks,
lias greatly widened the investment interest
in the scrip. The remarkable progress made
See the old Colonial Bank was welded into
; business in 1918 and since the Bank of
eensland (an amalgamation of the Bank
N. Queensland and of the Ttoyal of
eensland) was bought outright, nearly
•ee years later, is obvious from these
tires: —
Gross
Capital. Reserves. Profits. Expenses.
1.. £2,000,000 £1,376,625 £862.102 £525.491
2.. 2,661.125 1.661.907 953.758 603.500
1963.. 2,725,000 1.806.324 1,114,392 672.214
1021. . 3.225,000 2.148.342 1.199.282 701.113
1925.. 4,000.000 2.414.704 1.321.419 782.587
1926.. 4,000,000 2.532.958 1.370.195 801 040
1927.. 4,000,000 2,644,603 1,444,329 802.684
1928.. 5.000,000 3,148,495 1.548.480 908.079
1989.. 5,000,000 3,257,773 1,602,091 942,813
The £3,000 000 of new capital got in during
the last eight years brought with it £948,832
ofjlshare premiums, which means that a 10
p.e. div. is costing the co. on the average
only a whisper over 7| p.c.—a very attrac-
tive return nevertheless on a sound bank
s/ock. The £659 278 netted last year was
8 p.c. on average funds (capital and reserves
combined) compared with 7.9 p.c. and 8.8
/p.c. in the two years before that.
It is to the continued growth of the widely-
scattered business that the 8200 shareholders
now look for further investment opportuni-
ties. And. the energy and vision of those
in control is a pretty good assurance of con-
tinued progress. Some idea of how matters
stand in respect of immediate new capital
requirements can be got from an examina-
tion of balance-sheet figures :
1920. 1928. 1929.
Notes .. .. £49,809 £47.957 £47.899
Bills, etc. .. 962,908 1.655.525 1.534.686
Flee deposits .. 11,926,167 13.947.132 13.055.9U6
Fixed deposits .. 11,472,035 21,572.947 23,785,559
Liquid assets .. 13,194,160 10.1u3.944 13.991.072
Advances .. 13,903.139 28.222.494 32.127.196
Premises, etc. .. 643,030 1,296,018 1,313,556
Considering the decline in the prices of
export commodities, and the disturbed con-
ditions in the building and coal trades, last
year’s growth in deposits is highly satisfac-
tory. Incidentally, 51.1 p.c. of the total
deposits at March 31 were held at city and
suburban branches, and the balance at coun-
try centres. Nevertheless the demand for
accommodation was so strong that advances
had mounted to 86 p.c. of the deposits when
the books last closed as against 79.4 p.c. at
the preceding balance. This, of course, caused
liquids to be drawn upon, reducing them to
35.9 p.c. of the liabilities to the public com-
pared with 32 p.c. at the close of accounts
in 1927, shortly after which a million of
new capital was issued at a premium of 40
p.c. However, for every £1 of its own funds
the bank was holding only £4 14s. 3d. of the
public’s money at March 31 compared with
£5 Ss. Gil. two years earlier, and that is a
very strong position. But unless the growth
in deposits continues, the lending connection
cannot be carried much further without
shareholders being called upon to assist.
The recent sharp drop in the price of woo]
and the collapse of the wheat market are
not likely to make the demand for assistance
any lighter, nor do they favor a substantial
growth in deposits. Much will depend upon
the course of business during the year. The
market prices the £lO paid shares at £l9
Bs. and the £5 paids at £9 13s. The imme-
diate return at those figures is a shade over
5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The visible
backing amounts to 335. in net tangibles pur
£1 of paid capital.
Garratt’s, Ltd. (Sydney).
, Dividends N
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. (6 p.c.). Ordinary. serves, serves.
<£ £ £*£*£,
1917.. 6,033 60 25 p.c. = 4837 1,136 6.906
19)8.. 7,027 60 10 „ „ 2711 4.256 1 1.162
1919.. 7,039 00 10 „ „ 3990 2.989 14.151
1920.. 9,623 60 10 „ „ 0303 3,200 17.351
Written off reserves, £5849 .. .. 11,502
1921.. 9,070 60 Nil 9,010 20,512
Loss. Deficit.
1922.. 46,224 30 2)p.e.= 2069 27,811
Written off capital, £21,290.. .. 6,515
Profit. Reserves.
1923.. 11.800 90 Nil 11,710 5,195
Goodwill (£4622) disappears.. .. 9,817
1924.. 25,186 60 10 p.c. = 8518 10,008 26.425
Set aside for taxes, etc., £BOOO .. 18,425
(10 p.c.)
1925.. 33,506 3914 10 p.c. = 8518 21,074 39.499
Written off, £3587 .. .. .. 35.912
1926.. 36.014 10.100 12$ p.e.=10.648 15.266 51.178
1927.. 7,674 10.100 10 „ „ 8,518 40,234
Shares in subsidiaries written down, £8976.. 31,258
Loss. 7$ p.c.
1928.. 23,683 7,575 Nil
Special provision for losses on stocks, debtors, Deficit.
etc., £lB,OOO 18.000
1929.. 44,639 Nil Nil 62,(539
This co., which has been in the motor trade
-in N. S. Wales for the last 21 years, litis
bad its ups and downs. Prior to 1617 nearly
all the profits were kept in the business, and
shareholders were rewarded in that year with
a 25 p.c. bonus. Then, stimulated by the
public craze for credit-buying, the business
bounded ahead, and there was a good run of
divs. But when Values slumped in 15)21 the
co. was flooded jwith stocks, prices had to
be cut, and 4s. pey share was lopped off the
ords. to square the 15)22 accounts. But the
infatuation for motor-cars continued, a crop
of hire-purchase finance cos. sprang up, and
every Government was borrowing vigorously
and spending lavishly. In the circumstances
a boom in the trade naturally developed, and
Garratt’s made a quick recovery. The board
handled the position carefully enough, put-
ting by more than it distributed: thus in
the four years to Jan. 31, 1020. reserves
amounting to £51.178 had been accumulated
as a buttress for the £186.182 of paid capital.
Suddenly the whole outlook for the co.
changed. The boom burst, and a severe de-
pression in the trade followed. Then the
Fiat agency for N. S. Wales, handled by
Garratt’s since pre-war days, passed to Con-
solidated Motors. Ltd., a new concern which
registered in 1026 with a half-million of
captal, and which took over Garratt’s stock
of Fiat cars. As an offset. Garrett’s secured
agencies for Standard, Cl.vno and Hillman
cars, all British makes, ami bought a con-
trolling interest in Hover Cars, Ltd. A new
subsidiary. Cars of England, Ltd., was
formed to take over the new agencies, which
proved to be unprofitable. Moreover, Con-
solidated Motors. Ltd., survived only a few
months, having in that time lost all the
capital it gathered and about 16s. in the
pound of unsecured creditors’ money besides.
So a loss of £23,683 showed up in Gar-
ratt’s books when they were ruled off marly
in 1028. That with £8076 struck off the bonk
value of shares in subsidiaries and the pay-
ment to the prefs. completely wiped out the
visible reserves.
Last year exes., including £1563 struck
off buildings, etc., and the loss on realisation
of assets, exceed d takings by no less than
£44,639. That was mainly the insult of
the sale of English ears —Cars of England,
Ltd., was wound up. In addition fIN.OOO
was earmarked to provide against further
losses through doubtful debts, repossessions,
the liquidation of Consolidated Motors and
the sale of spare parts and oilier ass ts rela-
tive to the abandoned agencies. Thus at
Jan. 31 £62.639. equal to 11s. 9d. of each
16s. ord. share, had been lost: th°t was
exclusive of £lO.lllO of divs. accrued to
the prefs. The board proposes to square
accounts by mak ng the necessary cut in
capital, details of which are to be submitted
to shareholders at an early date. It is
claimed that the cut will permit of an early
resumption of divs.
The co.’s own activities are now concen-
trated solely on the Willys agency, which is
said to have been profitable in the pist.
The chief subs diary interest is Overland,
Sydney. Ltd., for which the parent h°d
back d bills aggregating £04.406 at Jan. 31,
or £149 694 less than the contingent liability
under that head a year earlier.
Here is the co.’s position as balance-sheet
figures disclose it: —
1922. 1924. 1928. 1929.
Capital .. £ 107.045 £186.182 £186,182 £186.182
Liabilities .. 164,082 257,491 121,236* 120,433
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 87,7.56 79.993 82.062* 33,032
Plant, etc. .. 9.333 10,349 12,181 ) - 777
Stoeks .. 100.7.57 202.189 1.067 J ‘
fiook debts .. 34,903 80,052 195,828 176,387
Mortgages .. 28,500
Cash, etc. .. 2,708 1,412
Shares in other
cos 5,622 39,522 30.022
*To the liabilities must be added the Ciimperdown
mortgage; but the amount of the mortgage has been
deducted from the total of the freeholds.
Early in the term a freehold was sold at
Camperdown for £115,000 —that was £4OOO
less than its book value, but the deficiency
was covered by inner reserves—and £28.500
of the purchase price remained on second
mortgage at the close of accounts. A new
freehold was bought at Surry Hills, and
figures at £20.000. Leaseholds are unchanged
(£13.032). Book debts, down £19.441 during
the year, represent 02.3 p.c. of the total
tangible assets; obviously much depends
upon their soundness. Their excess over
liabilities (£55.954) was £IS,G3B less than
at the previous balance.
On the market sellers ask 4s. Gd. for the
I6s. ords., after sales at that price. On
paper the backing amounts to 4s. 3d. per
share in net tangibles. For the £1 prefs.,
which have a net tangible hacking of 245.
5d., 9s. is offered without attracting sellers.
Swan Brewery (Perth).
I>i\ idt’iids nnd
, —Dividend Tax—Writ-
Pref. ten Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. Ordinary. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Mnr.,'2l.. 29,074 1500 20 p.c. =20.290 2.737 273.770
Sept.,’2l.. 20.585 1500 20 „ ~20.290 4.172 208.693
Mar.,'22.. 29.07.3 1500 20 „ „ 20,290 3.061 272.914
Sept.,'22.. 19.400 1560 16 ~,, 16.2.32 4.6.30 269.952
Mar., '23.. 33 618 1500 20 „ ~ 20.290 0,159 275.021
Sept.,'23.. 22.608 1500 16 ~ ~ 16,232 !66 280.331
Premiums on new shares, £21,0.35.. 301.366
Mar..'24.. 43.2.52 1500 16 p.c.= 20,527 10.161 312.430
Sept..’24.. 27.115 1500 |6 „ ~ 24.655 5,223 308.167
Mar.. '25.. 44.736 1500 16 „ ~ 24.655 326.748
Sept.,'2s.. 23.360 1500 16 .. ~ 24.655 425 323.528
Mar., '20.. 40,391 1500 16 ~,, 24.055 10,182 333.582
Sept.,’26.. 28,112 1500 16 ~ ~ 24.655 10,076 325.463
Profit on sale of assets. £13,720 .. 339,183
Castlemaine Brewery purchased.
Additions to reserves, £65.846 .. 405,029
Mar.,’27.. 48.871 1500 16 p.c. =26.754 425.646
Sept.,’27.. 49,990 1500 16 .. ~ 27.905 14.000 432.231
Premiums on new shares, £14,957.. 447,188
Emu Brewery pu hased.
Additions to reserves, £58.983 .. 506.121
Mar.,’2B.. 61.406 1500 20 p.c. =42.531 523,496
Sept.,’2B.. 63,511 1500 20 ~ ~ 42.545 642.962
Man., '29.. 63,891 1500 20 „ „ 42,545 502.808
The office is in Melbourne, where much of
(lie scrip is held, bur the co.’s interests are
all in Westralia ; and the directors, most of
them principals in the big Gailton and
United Brewery, are assisted by a local
board at IVrth.
With'n the last couple of years the Swan
has gained practically a monopoly of the
trade in the western State by the purchase
of two old competitors. The Castlemaine
was bought in 1926 and the Emu in the
following year: tin- price paid for the two
concerns was £111,945. of which £82.855 was
in scrip and tin* balance cash. Since Swan
scrip was at a substantial premium on the
market, the co. was able to further fatten
tin* already corpulent reserves by an addi-
tional £124.779 through these purchases.
Nevertheless, after putting as'de £29,779
for taxation, the board claim 'd as-net profit
for tin* 12 months only £2OOO-odd more than
(be previous year's figure. If. however,
we take into account unexplained additions
lo reserves, tin* spring in the year’s net
earnings (£127.4n2i was actually £16.000.
Allowing for tin* prof, requirements (£.2(100
p.a.) tin* balance of the year’s profit was a
juicy 29.2 p.c. on average ord. capital corn-
par d with 27.7. 23 and 21.7 p.c. back to
1925. The feature that attracts attention
there is the improved earnings that Jiave
accompanied the growth of cap.tal—£ll7,-64
has been added to paid capital since the
close of accounts at March 31, 1926, making
it £475,134, of which £56,000 is pref. money
carrying a cumulative 6 p.c. Shareholders
have joined in the prosperity, an extra 4 p.c.
having been added to the div., making it 20
p.c. p.a. for each of the last three halves.
One factor that has helped to put more
sparkle into recent figures is that during the
last three years reserves have grown faster
than paid capital, due largely to the pur-
chases referred to. Besides the help from that
source the visible lay-by has benefited
£14.957 of share premiums in cash, £13,720
from the sale of assets and £B3,SS9 from
trading profits, etc., advancing it to £87,354
in excess of paid capita] when the books were
last ruled off. Also there may be some true
profit in the £111,143 (up £19,248 during
the year) labelled “Accounts in credit, in-
cluding goodwills accruing.” And, of course,
there is the inner strength, whatever it
may be, created by a conservative valuation
of the assets.
Indeed, it is suspected that the family
stocking is so full that it is about to over-
flow. Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures disclose it:—
Mar.,'26. Mar.,'2B. Mar.,'29.
Capital £358,190 £475,306 £475,454
Accounts in credit, etc. 60,371 91,895 111,143
Other liabilities . . 81,452 104,301 98,052
Freehold and plant .. 654,179 800,765 844,349
Mortgages .. . . 68,588 50,482 51,082
Stocks .. .. .. 54,759 64.881 69,539
Shares in other cos. .. 6,897 110,354 111,722
Book debts .. .. 81,973 112,710 130,423
Cash, etc 3,353 99,838 84,386
Most of the reserves, visible and otherwise,
appear to be in fixed assets, on which £93,434
more was spent than was written off during
the last two years. Although £8366 was
spent on hotel properties during the last 12
months, raising their total cost to £576,486
at March 31, their book value (£468,607)
was £11,586 less than it was a year
earlier. The brewery, which has been vis-
ibly written down £43,433, stands at
£163,929, up £13,389 during the year. Inci-
dentally, the Emu Co.’s scrip was taken
into Swan’s books at £15,900 odd less than
its net tangible book value. Treating accounts
in credit as a liability, the more or less
liquid surplus (£l2O 235), including mort-
gage and stocks but apart from shares in
other cos., was only £1024 heavier than at
the previous balance.
The market, which is eager in its antici-
pation of benefits, paid 98s. for the 255. paid
oids. a month ago; they were to be had at
60s. 18 months earlier. Now buyers offer
925. 6d. without attracting sellers; the imme-
diate return at that figure is 5.4 p.c. on a
20 p.c. div. basis. The visible backing
amounts to 5Ss. Id. per share. Thus the
market values the hidden strength and good-
will at well over half a million. For the
very strongly protected £1 prefs., which have
priority as to capital, offers of 245. fail to
entice sellers out of their shells. The return
at that price is 5 p.c.
Moreheads, Ltd. (Brisbane).
Towards
April, Profit. Dividend & Tax. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 19.802 15 p.c. = 14,174 5628 13,271
1919.. 18.642 15 „ „ 14,225 4417 8,854
1920.. 13,867 15 .. 14.175 9,162
1921.. 10.046 10 „ „ 9,562 484 8,678
1922.. 16,381 10 „ „ 9,562 6819 1,859
Reserves.
1923.. 19.842 15 „ „ 14,343 5499 3,640
1924.. 19,388 15 „ „ 13,781 5607 9,247
, Dividend—
-1925.. 19,455 15 p.c. = 13,500 5955 15,202
1926.. 17.708 121 „ „ 11,250 6458 21,660
1927.. 14.768 124 „ „ 11,250 3518 25,178
1928.. 16.624 124 „ „ 11,250 5374 30.552
1929.. 15,582 12$ „ „ 13,656 1926 32,478
Except for the slump in values in 1921-22,
when 10 p.c. was paid, shareholders in this
Brisbane eo., which has been in the wool,
produce and general-agency business for the
last 30 years, received a regular 15 p.c. for
the 11 years to 1925. Since thpn the co. has
lost the Brisbane agency for the Orient line,
and drought has clouded the outlook in the
pastoral industry, particularly in the far west
of Queensland, where many of the co.’s
clients have been severely hit, Faced with an
inevitable drop in earnings, 2| points were
snipped off the annual distribution, reducing
it to 124 p.c. in 1926, and that rate has
been paid each year since.
l’artl.v in order to widen the co.’s connec-
tions and partly to tide old clients over
a difficult period, the eo. put out 30,000 new
£1 shares early in the last term, making paid
capital £120.000. Then, toward the close of
accounts, the parched areas in the west and
nor’-west of the State were relieved by good
rains, and pastoralists are now faced with
the problem of re-stocking. This will mean
a strong call for accommodation, in antici-
pation of which the management is now
offering shareholders a further 40.000 new
£1 shares, at par. one for three. When all
the money on that lot is in paid capital will
advance to -PinOOOO. A 10 p.c. div. will then
call for £l6 0410 p.a. Only twice in the last
eight years lias less than that been shown:


A
/A
I
I
m
m
jn
W!
PA
W
i
&
m.
pa.
m
W//"’Z
w
1 AYREFIELD hats have
an indefinable air of
style, and their smart
appearance cannot fail
to appeal to the well-
dressed man. Their
colors are fast and their shapes
permanent.
*
£\>
COJXQ
(ie(xL
Share their Merits with Ac
Obtainable at all the
leading Men's Stores
A PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT HATS PTY- LTD-
F 4


Wool & Wheat
It Are Down
What will happen next?
Certainly some invest-
ments will suffer.
The wise man will watch
his little lot.
You may have every-
thing in insurance poli-
cies. All the more
teason to see the offices
are sound. There are
offices that are not
sound.
The leading Australian
authority on all these
matters is
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
JUNE NUMBER NOW ON SALE
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/6. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
Being absolutely non-corroding, Pioneer Wood
Pipe is capable of giving very much longer and
more efficient service than metal piping. Further-
more, its initial cost is considerably less, its main-
tenance cost is negligible, and it is cheaper and
easier to handle, freight and lay. Many important
installations bear testimony to the long life and all-
round excellence of Pioneer Wood Pipe. Those
interested are invited to write for illustrated data
book, post free on request. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree
Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.AV.; and at Footscray, Vic-
toria.— Advt.
tjs $ sjs
Mining Properties.—l have large London Capital
available for approved Properties—Gold, Tin, lode
or alluvial, and Silver-lead. Reply with particulars
to “London,” c/o Mercantile Exchange, 380 Collins
Street, Melbourne, C.l. — Advt.
Patents.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
❖ * 5? *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coddison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
# Hi ifc
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradieator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
May’s Broadcast Fertiliser Spreader
Tih/u-
-''KkVJt&t *U -vj,
‘ .« ftYT
Call and Inspect,
To Farmers ana Graziers
The season is now approaching for
top-dressing your lands, and here
is the Ideal Machine for the job.
Spreads up to 40ft. 50-100 acres
per day.
SIMPLE—CHEAP—EFFECTIVE.
PRICE: £2l net f.o.r. Sydney.
For use with Spring Cart.
£2 extra for Motor-lorry attachments.
AGENTS WANTED.
AGENTS:
GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire ,
IVlonobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatins
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ADFIELDS
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadiields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and }
Foundries l
Alexandria, Svdney, N.S.W,
Bassendean, Berth. W.A.
Branch (
Office S
422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Vic.
T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
nevertheless it will take time to build up
flocks and herds, and the future course of
values is uncertain. Moreover, the visible
lay-by at April 30 was only £82,478 in excess
of the £50,000 at which goodwill figures in
the accounts. So the board has now declared
its aim to be the stabilisation of the div. at
10 p.c. and the building up of the reserve
strength, thus providing greater protection
against possible losses from shrinkage in
asset values. In view of the fact that the
recent issues have been at par, shareholders
wdll not have much to complain of in 10 p.c.
The chairman does not say how much wool
the co. handles, but according to the selling-
brokers’ returns it got rid of 35,417 bales
during the 1925-26 season, and then 20,810
and 18,832 bales in the two years follow-
ing. For the corresponding years the aver-
age price per bale for Queensland was £23 Bs.,
£24 16s. and £27, and commission earnings were
£59,966, £44,935 and £45,014 respectively.
Last year a satisfactory increase in the wool
handled was reported, but the average price
shrank more than £5 per bale, and commis-
sion earnings (£38,669) fell away £9345;
interest and rents (£6215) brought in an
extra £3462; divs. (£4505) were £470 lighter.
The fall in gross profits (£49,389) was thus
£6353; but that blow was softened by a cut
of £5268 in exes. (£33,498). The year’s
net result was thus 14.2 p.c. on average
capital compared with 18.4, 16.4, 19.6 and
21.6 p.c. back to 1925, the year before the
recent long dry spell began.
During the year “an appreciable sum” was
received from Bawra on account of commis-
sions earned under the Imperial wool-pur-
chase scheme. This sum was not included in
the year’s profit figures, and since the unex-
plained addition to the visible lay-by was
only £llO, it looks as though the amount,
whatever it was, has been sent to inner
reserves—possibly to write down the book
value of advances. On the property and
plant items, which for the first time are
shown less reserves, £4425 more was written
off than was spent during the 12 months.
Of l’ecent years the co. has gone deeper
into the pastoral-finance business, as this
comparison of balance-sheet figures shows: —
1925. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital .. £90,000 £90,000 £90,000 £120,000
Liabilities .. 17,235 61,282 81,619 101,323
Properties .. 27,382 91,719 97,582 93,886
Book debts .. 41,609 47,044 65,432 123,915
Shares in cos. .. 35,736 40,816 41,011 41,236
Cash, etc. .. 21,349 2,289 1,915 1,802
Plant, etc. .. 5,361 1,341 9,251 8,522
During the year £58,483 was added to the
book value of advances; so in spite of the
new capital got in, the board went outside
for £19,704. Excluding shares in other cos.,
liquids (£125.717) were £24,394 in excess of
the debt at April 30; thus the position in
this respect was £38,666 stronger than at the
previous balance.
The co.’s prospects largely depend upon
seasons and prices ; it has demonstrated its
ability to win good returns under fair con-
ditions. On the market buyers offer 325. for
tiro fully paid pound shares, and sellers ask
335. At the middle price the return is 6.4
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The backing,
including the present new issue, amounts to
245. per share in net tangibles.
Bankers and Traders’ Insurance Co.
To
Match, Surplus. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1922.. 9,039 9,039 9,039
1923.. 11,092 11,092 20,131
1924.. 10,603 10,603 30,734
1925.. 15,207 6 p.c. = 5361 9,846 40,580
1920.. 15,811 7 „ „ 6295 9,516 50,096
1927.. 18,145 7 „ „ 6312 11,833 61,929
1928.. 21,271 7 „ „ 6452 14,819 76,748
1929.. 17,264 7 „ „ 6522 10,742 87,490
This healthy youngster put up its* name-
plate in Sydney eight years ago. It has
since scattered its risks throughout the Aus-
tralian States, Southern Asia, East Indies
and South Sea Islands. Also it has an office
at Montreal and another at London. The
latter field has proved a trap for many under-
writers, especially of marine risks. But the
B. and T. is fortunate in its control, which
consists chiefly of the directors and executive
officers of the very successful Queensland
Insurance Co. That and the friendly in-
terest taken in the co. by the big Burns-
Philp organisation has helped greatly. The
declared aim of the board is to build up
strength during the co.’s infancy, and dis-
cerning shareholders are not likely to quarrel
with that.
Since policy-writing commenced share-
holders have had an average of 4.2 p.c., and,
after paying for establishment, furniture and
stationery out of revenue, £32,499 in excess
of the. £55,000 specifically set aside to cover
unexpired risks has been accumulated to sup-
port £93,175 of paid capital—there are
186,350 £1 shares paid to 10s. each.
Last year investments brought in £10.534,
which was £l6OO more than in the previous
year and equal to 11.3 p.c. on capital; so not-
withstanding a fall in underwriting profits
last year, shareholders’ prospects of getting
something better than 7 p.c. are very rosy
indeed.
The next table shows how business has
moved, going back to the beginning:—
Net loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Ratio.
1922.. £22,358 £7,605 £8,884 34.0p.c. 39.<p.c.
1923.. 40,049 18,240 15,583 45.5 „ 38.9 „
1924.. 58,442 33,296 20,172 56.9 „ 34.0 „
1925.. 73,375 41,052 23,940 55.9 „ 32.6 „
1926.. 97,486 55,048 33,890 56.5 „ 34. < „
1927.. 132,600 85,683 36,392 64.6 „ 2<.4 „
1928.. 157,422 96,737 48,348 61.4 „ 30.7 „
1929.. 176,229 113,991 55,507 64.7 „ 31.0 „
Last year an extra £18.807 was gathered in
net premiums, but claims took £17,-54 ot
the increase, and exes, were up £7lod. Hence
the year’s underwriting surplus (£bi3i)
fell away £5606 compared with the previous
term’s; it was only 3.8 p.c. of the net pre-
mium income as against 7.S p.c. and 8.3 p.c. m
the two preceding years, and 15.3 p.c. m 1033.
A recent sharp rise in loss rate —last year s
64.7 p.c. was the heaviest the co. has sus-
tained —has been a common experience, and
is causing underwriters to look hard at pre-
mium rates on certain classes of risks. Exes,
were heavier, but the rate is moderate.
Incidentally, the reserve for unexpired risks
was only 0i.2 p.c. of the year’s net pre-
miums, but total reserves were nearly 10
p.c. better than the protection usually looked
for. Also the co.’s own funds, which are in
high-class securities, were over 11 times last
year’s exceptional losses. Assets are in this
f ° lm ' 1922. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Capital .. .. £75, 000 £89,925 £92,175 £93,175
Liabilities.. .. 8,028 63,342 91,438 99,072
Govt, securities .. 40,260 121,484 121,775 121,675
Fixed Deposits .. 31,500 20,000 27,000 2 <,OOO
Cash, etc. .. 13,209 8,886 7,297 13,872
Book debts, etc... 7,098 17,294 36,i50 49,6<1
Freehold .. .. 35,995 <3,986 <4,041
There was little change in the interest-bear-
ing investments during the year. The
co.’s new Collins-street, Melbourne, premises,
completed a little over a year ago, were
mainly responsible for the improvement in
the year’s rents, etc. .
The market, which heavily discounts the
future, pays 28s. for the scrip. The return
at that figure is only 2.5 p.c. on a 7 p.c.
div. basis, and is very flattering to those
hard-heads who control the business.
“Bled,” from Broken Hill; —
From B. 29/5/’29 I gather that the Country
Traders’ Assoc, of Broken Hill has inundated The
Bulletin with protestations of injured innocence.
To say that retail prices at Broken Hill are
kept steady by an honorable understanding does
not go far enough. If this is denied, perhaps the
Country Traders will say what action was taken
against ’ retailers who lowered the price of motor
tyres; what was the threat made to the Dunlop
agents when they sold direct; what was the recent
agreement arrived at with the petrol companies to
stop them from selling direct to big private con-
sumers ; and how many meetings have been held
during the last six months to deal with retailers
against whom there were allegations of “unfair
trading,” as they term it.
The excuse for the high cost of living was
always high freights; but since the opening of the
Sydney line in September, 1927, there have been
considerable reductions in freight, with the added
advantage of wholesalers in two capitals competing
keenly for business. This being so, and if there is
no honorable (or other) understanding, it is up to
the Country Traders to explain how it is that,
whereas on the last quarter’s figures the average
increase for Australia was 45., the mining cos. had
to add 55.,?
I am going to say straight out that so great
is the grip of the traders on the people of Broken
Hill that, unless they buy by catalogue, from other
cities, they have no chance of breaking down the
high cost of living and have to accept what the
traders offer. 1 Members of the mine staffs on salaries,
who received no compensation for the increased cost
of living, decided to go in for co-operative buying
to relieve the burden. There were such large savings
that daily-wage workers came in and presently the
stores were doing a big trade. The traders took alarm,
and every local warehouseman and every visiting
commercial traveller had to give a pledge that his
house would refuse to accept orders from the “wel-
fare stores” or they would get no further orders
from the traders. Even the small trading store of
the Returned Soldiers’ Association was termed a
“welfare store” and brought under the rule; but
this raised such a hell of a storm that in about
two hours it was modified to this extent —that the
soldiers, if they sent orders through the presi-
dent of the Country Traders’' Association, and
pledged themselves to serve none but returned
soldiers, would be supplied.
* * * *
When the B. H. South's mill has been
remodelled better recoveries and lower costs
can be expected. Last year the co.’s chief
metallurgist visited America and S. Africa
to examine the latest developments in equip-
ment and practice. Of recent years there
have been big improvements in ore-dressing
technique and mill equipment.
In crushing the tendency has been toward
machines taking larger size ore, and the
design has been improved to give lower
maintenance charges. Bolls are now fre-
quently eliminated, the coarse feed passing
direct to fine-grinding tube, rod or steel ball
mills. Jigs cannot be trusted to give good
recoveries, so they and concentrating tables
are often not included in up-to-date treat-
ment mills.
In flotation sulphuric acid as a reagent
has been discarded, and either lime or soda
ash, which are cheaper and less severe on
equipment, are used. Scores of flotation re-
agents are being continually developed for
special and varied uses. More cheaply built
and operated flotation machines, where the
agitating medium is low-pressure compressed
air, are being widely adopted, especially for
initial flotation. It is now common enough
to make a low-grade bulk float with high
recovery, thus discarding a large amount of
the feed early in the 'treatment. The bulk
cons, are then recleaned. High-capacity suc-
tion filters are used for dewatering the float
cons, in place of pressure filters or porous
bottom vats. Bucket elevators have been
displaced by sand pumps with saving in
space, first cost and running cost
* * * *
Marranboy Mining Co., a North Aus. lode
tin show worked by open cut, is putting up
a2O head mill and dressing plant. Ten head
of stamps are expected to fall this mouth.
The mine was worked for 10 years previous
to the present co. coming in and recoveries
averaged 3.4 p.c. With a 2 p.c. recovery and
tin at £220 the management figures on a net
£5OOO p.a. Tin is now b low the £2OO mark.
Until the price greatly strengthens work is
to be confined to the richer faces, yielding up
to 5 p.c. At March 31 paid capital was
£22.593, and there was another £27,407 at
call. The co. owed £5147, and had £76
liquid. To enable the mine to be worked in
two shifts and the mill in three another 5000
£1 shares are offered.
* * * *
The ore of the Tasman and Crown Lyell
(Tas.) is very similar to that at Rosebery,
where the Electrolytic Zinc Co.’s new flota-
tion plant is nearing completion. B. H.
Block 14 has been doing underground de-
velopment work on the T. and C. for some
time, and results to date have been “fairly
satisfactory.” The bottom level, 253 ft. from
the surface, is being driven. Chief interest
now centres in an electrical prospecting
survey to be carried out when the, weather
brightens.
* * * *
Gypsum mined in South Aus. for 1928 was
valued at £BO,OOO, and was next on the list
after iron ore (£700,000) and salt
(£160,000). The production has steadily in-
creased from 50,000 tons in 1923 to 91,000
in 1927. One deposit, at Lake MacDonell,
estimated to contain 68 million tons, is being-
worked by Waratah Gypsum Pty., Ltd. The
uses of gypsum are being rapidly extended.
Most of that mined in Australia is calcined
for production of plaster or used for agri-
culture. In U.S.A. gypsum is being adopted
for heat and sound insulation, being poured
into partitions similar to concrete. In Ger-
many about 500,000 tons is used annually for
the manufacture of ammonium sulphate, a
now-popular nitrogenous fertiliser. Artificial
gypsum in the form of blocks is being made
in America from phosphate rock refuse. The
blocks are light and strong, and are used in
skyscrapers.
4: 4c 4:
At Tarcoola, on the East-West line, 250
miles from Port Augusta, a little- gold is still
being won, thanks to the State battery and
cyanide works there. For the six months
to Dec. 31 last 400 tons ore was treated
for 2000 z., averaging 325. per ton. A large
proportion of the ore mined at Tarcoola has
boon treated at the battery, the total being
14.000 tons, worth 795. per ton. The Gov-
ernment now treats a parcel of 25 tons from
any new development free of charge. This
has stimulated prospecting; it has also re-
duced the average yield per ton. The quartz
gold veins, which have been mined to shallow
depths only, are rich but narrow. Other
Government battering in S. Aus. are at Mt.
Torrens, Peterborough and Glenloth. All
told, gold to the value of £113,000 has been
recovered at these batteries.
* * # *
Freney Oil Co. (W.A.) struggles on.
Just when everything seemed right, some-
thing went wrong with the plant, and steps
have had to be taken to obtain more. It
is now anticipated that oil will not be in
sight until September. Apart from Freney’s
and one other area, little or no oil prospect-
ing is being done in Westralia: exemptions
are being applied for and obtained on the
ground that investors are shy of petroleum
at the moment. Not long, ago a Minister
for Mines declared that unless oil prospect-
ing cos. worked their areas they would have
to be given up; nevertheless, many areas
are still held solely in the hope that Freney’s
will strike payable oil, and thus enable them
to unload at fancy prices.
* * * *
Having found a suitable man to manage
the Wiluna mines, the same crowd is now
looking for one to boss the Lake View and
Star group. When he is found, Vail, present
manager, is to be appointed consulting
engineer. Big things are tipped to happen
at Lake View. The part where the best ore
is—Horseshoe and Chaffers —is to be worked
from both the north and south ends, and
tlier* is some talk of the capacity of the
treatment plant being increased to 40,000
tons a month “if developments warrant.
Generally the policy of the co. is to go
for its life.
:Js * *
Great Boulder Prop. (W.A.) is consider-
ing some options recently offered it at the
north end of Wilnna. These are on areas
from which good returns were once obtained,
but which owing to want of capital have
not been worked for some time. Boulder s
two most valuable interests outside Kal-
goorlie are said to be a small holding in
the big mine at Wiluna and a wad of shares
in Carmen Gold Mines, Central America.
So far the latter mines have not got beyond
the promising stage.
* * * *
Bamboo Creek, on distant Pilbara (W.A.),
is being stabbed by Government drills. For
over 30 years the small reefs at this centre
have crushed well as far as opened up ; now
we’re to see if there is anything bigger and
better at depth. Several old mines, includ-
ing the Bonnie Doon, Kitchener and Lalla
Rookli, are being tested in this way.


(Ji
*1
e
•o
i
9 ga
2 i
©
- |
DIMINISHED TRADE MEANS
OVER
£1,750,000
™ LOST
Iff WkOES 1
Iff
12 months
Publication authorised by C- M. MeDONALD. Chairman, Northern Collieries Association, Sydney


wmmm
mmmMm
9m§m
wmmn
Wmmm
wmmm
Wmfflm,
iiNXESD
■HH
SIMXECO ■:
Wmmm,
Wmfflm
Mtecim
SHIIPMUn
Mtttatu
i 'wmmm,\
PSaaSi
The Oil Content Tells!
Every feed of Meggitt’s Linseed Sheep Nuts moves any accumu-
lations of FIBRE from stomach and intestines. This is due to
the correct percentage of pure Linseed Oil the food contains.
In consequence, Meggitt’s Nuts entirely neutralise the effects of
harsh, dry feed —preventing all losses from impaction.
SGGim UNSEED SHOT NUTS
also supply the essential food elements in the most concentrated
form procurable.
For Food Value and Low Feeding Costs —Meggitt’s Nuts.
Commonwealth Distribution:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Meggitt
Limited, 26 King Street,
Sydney; and all Pastoral
Houses or Agents.
VICTORIA: New Zealand Loan
and Mercantile Agency Co.,
Ltd., Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Branches.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder,
Smith and Co., Ltd., Currie
Street, Adelaide, and Branches.
TASMANIA: F. W. Heritage and
Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart and
Launceston.
t JZimited
HEAD OFFICE, 26 KING ST., SYDNEY
\Dortts Parramatta.NSVl) -Mel bourne .Victoria • Port Adelaides A
O&e 6ch/ on the bag
guarantees quality
°/Ae boy on (be boot
qua/antees qualify
Commonwealth Distribution:
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder,
Smith and Co., Ltd., St.
George’s Terrace, Perth, and
Branches. Sub-distributors,
Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd.,
Perth.
QUEENSLAND: All Pastoral
Houses and Agents; also Den-
hams, Ltd., Brisbane; Denham
Bros., Ltd., Rockhampton;
Cummins and Campbell, Ltd.,
Townsville and Cuirns;
Corser and Co., Maryborough
■
*
111
■
cf - iHi
IgglMg* 1
&
41-
4/
tft
■Hi
I
:
■
i
H
mm.
: :
MU
■ I
■ ii
Hi m
m ■ mmmm
mmim
m
m a
mm
■
MS


PEAPES
clothe men AND their sons
It is in the choice of Winter
needs that quality counts most
—the quality of soft, pure wool
which gives the utmost warmth
and protection, though negligible
in weight.
At PEAPES, one is assured of
this quality, although prices are
definitely low all the year round.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
m
JHE GREYS
SIZEoTWO
SILK CUT VIRGINIA
ORAP
UONOON
EYS
1® for <sdL CIGARETTES 2® for JL/®
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys”
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a “GREYS.”
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights”
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
<se^nu£s
x Protect your
throat from cold
infections and hoarse-
ness, and keep you in
good voice.
Your Chemist stocks them „
1/- and 1/9 p<rr box.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Cold Meat”: At the Bung and Gungle a
few thirsty failures were cursing the day they
came to the district. One had a cobber who
went to the Mallec without a bean, and now
had a limousine. Another told of a pal who
had gone to the Western District and now
kept racing ponies. Then there was the case
of the man who went to Sydney w’here he
married a widow who owned a pub. The
local undertaker had the last word. “Before
I come ’ere,” he said, “I was arst by the
Progress Association at Nullaw r allah to open
there. They would have guaranteed me three
bodies a week.”
* * * *
“Minthall”: Dave, interested in motors
and booze, mistook the door leading into
the pub-kitchen for the one lead ng to the
bar. He met lizzie coming out with a laden
tray. There was a terrible crash and a
squeal. When Boniface rushed in Dave
explained: “We ’ad a ’ead-on smash. She
blew ’er ’orn, but too late. ’Er upholstery
is a bit tore an’ ’er paint is scratched, but
there ain’t no real damage done to ’er.”
* * *
“Cachalot Charley”: The recent finds of
ambergris in Maoriland have set all the local
authorities on the subject going their hardest.
The Christchurch Press solves at last what
has always been something of a mystery.
The stuff is formed as the result of the sperm
whale’s inability to digest the cuttlefish beaks
which he swallows with their wearers, such
being his slovenly habit. “Eventually the
whale distends, blows up, and the ambergris
floats away.” Erom which it would appear
that facts and whales are sisters under their
skins when it comes to distension, as those
familiar with Jonah’s story have long sus-
pected.
* :|c $ ; i :
“Toe Pip” : I thought I knew most ways
of harnessing and mounting horses, but a
neighbor’s seven-year-old k.d taught me a
new one. I was yarning to her old man
when she passed us, half-carrying and half-
dragging her riding-pad towards a very tall
hoi'se. From her hanky she spilled some
maize on to the ground. As the horse
nuzzled for this a bit was slipped into his
mouth and the bridle pushed over his ears.
Dumping her saddle behind her prospective
mount’s head the kid straddled his neck
and gave him a sharp kick under his jaw.
Up went his head, sending kid and saddle
tobogganing, behind his withers. Squatting
on the horse’s hump, the grinning kid spread
a bag for saddle-cloth and adjusted her
saddle to her liking; then, lying on the
saddle, she held the girth in her right hand,
swung it under the horse’s belly and, on a
second attempt, caught it neatly with a
piece of wire held in her left hand. After
buckling the girth the, youngster slid into
the saddle and, using the piece of wire as
an accelerator, cantered off towards the
distant cow-bells. 7
* * :!:
“Vulagi”: Henare fetched up at a road-
making camp near Ngati. “That’s a fine
dog,” said someone. “Yes, py corri; this
dog’s mother’s te pest dog in Ngati,” replied
Henare, “Is he thoroughbred?” asked the
interested one. “Py corri, this dog’s mother’s
got a pedigree miles long,” averred Henare
AND A VERY NICE NAME, TOO.
“What are you going to call your piccaninny-girl, Jacky?”
“Mine tinkit call ’im Emerald—bin born longa Saint Patrick Day.”
earnestly. “What breed is he?” persisted the
questioner. “This dog’s mother” began
Ilenare, but the other broke in : “Never mind
his mother. What’s he by?” “Oh,” said
Ilenare. “I t’ink lie’s py every dog in Ngati.”
* * ' * *
“Mebra”: There may be places in Aus-
tralia where timber from a tree that has
been struck by
lightning will not
burn, but our
campfire here
(Coo'n amble,
N.S.W.) has been
futlled for several
days from a blasted
Finns insignis. But
we’re not immune
from superstitions
on the subject. It’s
a common belief
hereabouts that if
you pick your
teeth with a splin-
ter from such a
tree you will never
suffer from tooth-
ache.
* *
“Mullarula”: It
seems strange that
the little donkey,
which has for
many years been
pushing the camel
out of business in
many of the dry
districts of S.A.,
has never been util-
ised in N. S.
Wales or Queens-
land. He can’t go
so long as the
camel without water,
but he will live
and work in coun-
try where a work-
ing bullock would
starve. He is
tractable and
handy, and a team
of 30 donks will
shift a surprising
load on a waggon.
As a carrier of
packs where the
loading consists of
bales of wool, he
would not be much
use, the unit of
loading being too
big for him, but
wherever wheeled
vehicles xvill go the
camel has nothing-
on him. Anyone
who saw the donks
humping their
loads of ammunition and stores up the moun-
tain goat-tracks in Palestine will vouch for
their gameness and surefootedness.
“Baomata”: Saws
made by rolling gum-
med string in grit
were made ages ago
by the Binghi tribes
of Westralia. In the
nor’-west Kimberleys
the natives construct
dug-out canoes for
which the first neces-
sity is the trunk of a
great tree cut square
at each end. The
tree, too, must be of
first-rate timber. To
hack this down with
the primitive stone
tomahawk would take
months, and the ends
would be ragged. So
Binghi sits down by
the nearest flax bush,
draws gently at the
stoutest fibres, and
spins as they dry a
rope, not more than a
quarter of an inch in
diameter, but of a
strength to support
the weight of an ox.
When the rope is
neatly and finely spun,
Binghi coats it witi?
gum, and while this is
wet he rolls the rope
in coarse sand, care-
fully chosen. When
this is dry it is an
excellent cr o s s-c u t
saw, and a durable
one. Two niggers can
cut down the biggest
and hardest timber in
a wonderfully short
time. The burning out
of canoes has been
brought to a fine art,
and these craft have inner surfaces of which
any carpenter using the most up-to-date tools
might be proud.
“Larrapinta” : Let me sing the praises of
the Tasmanian “bluey” overcoat. It is won-
derfully warm and almost wind-proof. Under
it you keep dry without getting hot and
sticky, as one would under an oilskin. I
bought a “bluey” nine years ago, and have
worn it every winter since. In this time it
has protected me from rain for days on end,
DEGENERATE DAYS.
“Dear, Mr. Shortloin, ’ain’t it ’ard to get a nice bit o’ lamb?
Wot makes it so scarce?”
“It’s all these divorces, Mum—the sheep’s beginnin’ to go in
for ’em now.”
three snowstorms and a blizzard with a 50-
mile-an-hour wind behind it. In spite of its
age and the hard usage I’ve given it, I wore
the old coat, for seven hours to-day in a
squally rain without the damp penetrating
to my shirt. The only precaution to observe
with a “bluey” is to turn a deaf ear to any
suggestions the wife makes about “making
that thing look respectable” by putting it in
the wash-tub. If a “bluey” is washed the
soap removes the natural grease from the
wool, and from that day onward the eoar
is only half as warm as it uscl to be and
lets the rain go through.
❖ ❖ $ ❖
“Ess”: A hefty pioneer of the Manning
River was John Ruprecht, known as the
Manning giant, not ror his size but for his
strength. He could carry a four-bushel bag
of maize .(2241b.) under each arm ; and once,
when a bullock charged him in a yard, he
caught' it by the horns and threw the sur-
prised beast on to its back. In his heyday
he cleared five scrub farms with his axe.
There was no 48-hour week then ; the work-
ing-day was from daylight till dark, and at
husking and threshing time the farmers con-
tinued till 11 p.m. The giant’s first maize
crop was grown on Oxley Island. Every bag
of it lie had to carry across a muddy beach,
bogging at the knees, then row it to Croki
in a crude punt for shipment. And the price
of maize at that time fluctuated between
Is. 3d. and 2s. 6d. a bushel.
❖ * $ ❖
“Willah” : The contempt that “Wingella’s”
N.T. mission kids have for their pet croco-
dile (this country doesn’t own any alligators,
except in zoos) is certainly not shared by
the majority of Northern Australia’s original
inhabitants. Twice have I seen abos. acci-
dentally decanted into crocodile-infested
waters, and on each occasion the ensuing
performance was worthy of a Borg or Charl-
ton, while the harangue the performers de-
livered afterwards to let the neighboring
crocs, know exactly what they thought of
’em would have turned a Domain orator
green with envy. Incidentally, the belief that
the crocodile is slow and clumsy on land is
not borne out by what I’ve seen, for the
speed with which his short stumpy legs
can transport liis ungainly-looking body over
a mud flat is remarkable.
(Continued on page 25.)
NIGHTS ALONG THE ROAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Of stock-routes followed years ago
Some bitter thoughts remain :
For there were tracks where hope sank low
And effort seemed in vain.
But time moves on to temper these,
Till less the fancies bode,
While leaving pleasant memories
Of nights along the road.
The flies that tortured on the way,
The heat, the “Darling showers” —
Those were the evils of the day,
The night of peace was ours.
For when the moon showed stockyard-liigh
Behind the ghostly trees
We cast our load of troubles by
And sprawled in loose-limbed ease.
True to the bush philosophy,
Embodied in “Ah, well,”
We brooded not on destiny,
Nor felt desire to dwell
On morbid themes some poets find
The weary brain to goad....
These were the hours of “never mind”
In nights along the road.
We knew the calm that comes to men
Where far-out camp-fires burn.
We heard the old bush tales again,
And told them in return.
(And sometimes, when in boastful moods
Imagination showed,
Yarns soared to dizzy altitudes
From camps along the road.)
So passed the time in smoke and jest,
Till blankets on the ground
Were spread, that we might take our rest
Where perfect sleep was found.
Then while the fire to ashes burned,
‘Neath “Waggas” snugly drawn,
We slept the starry hours —and turned
With clear eyes to the dawn.
MAORILAND.
REVERINA.


A SIX IJST THE PRICE RANGE OF THE FOUtO
cflte Outstanding Chevrolet
of Chevrolet History
W
%
\
Si
.. -■ m
:
■MB
tig
pi|
H
P
■S
SI
%
, ,N
Sd
•m&t
J-Jf
PRICES FROM
£2lB
BUY FROM YOUR
LOCAL DEALER
Metropolitan Distributors:
MELBOURNE:
Lane's Motors Pty. Ltd.
89*105 Exhibition Street.
SYDNEY:
John McQrath Ltd.
* 155 Elizabeth Street.
BRISBANE:
Metropolitan Motors, Ltd.
Adelaide Street
ADELAIDE:
Mann's Motors , Ltd.
71*79 Franklin Street
PERTH:
Skipper Bailey Motors Co. Ltd.
900 Hay Street.
Abundant Smooth Power
with Unusual Economy
who have seen and driven the
- 1 sensational new Chevrolet Six have
acclaimed it as exceeding the greatest ex-
pectations. Those who expected remark-
able performance were literally amaz-
ed at the power, speed, acceleration and
fuel economy that Chevrolet engineers
have built into the new six-cylinder valve-
in-head motor. The smoothness of oper-
ation made possible by this new engine
is a revelation to all who have driven the
Outstanding Chevrolet.
And those who anticipated exceptional
value were aStounded that such outstand-
ing beauty, quality, and six-cylinder per-
formance could possibly be provided in the price
range of the four. Go to your Chevrolet dealer.
See and drive this remarkable new Chevrolet Six—
and you, too, will find it far beyond your highest
expectations!
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR
GENERAL MOTORS [AUSTRALIA] PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE :: SYDNEY :: BRISBANE :: ADELAIDE :: PERTH
/CHEVROLET [i


RUPTURE/
SUFFERERS /
©
Know security of body and peace
of mind by wearing Denyer’s
Elastic Truss —the truss with the
patent water pad. You’ve never
known such comfort, freedom and
effective support as is provided
by this dependable appliance.
Trusses also made specially to order
for individual requirements.
Write for Free Pamphlet.
Single 30/- Double 40/-
DEN Y E R BROS.,
Dept. 1, 267 George Street,
Sydney.
tke
atesf D e^ee
the benefi ts for which.
Cain is ■famous
i
{BATON!
sdf
sdf
VERY
OLD
HOLLAND GIN
Depend On
Wunderlich Quality
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings
Wunderlich Roofing Tjdes
Wunderlich “ Durabestos ” Building
Sheets
Wunderlich Metal Shopfronts
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
For Forty Years, Manufacturers of Quality
Products for Ceilings, Walls,
md Roofs
“Mang’o”: There is a pathetic appeal on
behalf of Black Brother in the Bowen (Q.)
School of Arts. A photograph shows the set
of cattleyards built (and built well) by abos.
in 1914 under the supervision of a contractor
named J. Robinson, the author of the appeal.
Under the glass of the frame are two cards
upon which is shakily inscribed; “These
Stockyards Avere built by Queensland abo-
riginals in July, 1914, under James Robinson,
contractor, at Bowen neAv Show Grounds.
Work which for them is a credit to them.
And for which the Government of Queens-
land should see to give to them better rights
than at present they have got. Which is
only a shame. The aboriginals which built
them were after that shamefully taken to
the Yaraba Mission Prison, Cairns, by the
Government orders, and are by force kept
there.? —J. Robinson. (Why not release them
from such a place?)”
“Pick”: Animals on trek choose and re-
tain a customary position in the ranks while
on the march. With mobs of cattle, horses
or sheep, drovers, and their dogs too, soon
learn which animals will constantly have
to be wheeled in from straying—some will
habitually stray to the right and others to
the left—also the laggers that will have
to be kept going from behind, and the fellows
that must be steadied ahead. In teams, the
COMPLIMENTS IN SEASON.
MRS. SKIM: “Yer a nice piece of goods you are!”
MRS. BULK: “Gwan! Yer only a remnant yerself!”
horse or bullock accustomed to a right-hand
position becomes almost useless if yoked to
the left, and a regular leader is usually a
slacker when put back in the body of the
team or in the shafts. Flock birds in flight
also occupy an individual position. An
albino parrot in the Waterloo bush (Mon-
aro, N.S.W.) was never seen flying with its
mob except on the right front. A peculiarly
marked and easily distinguishable starling
in the same locality always kept a position
at the rear of his regiment. And on the
N.S.W. South Coast an easily distinguish-
able ring-necked swan was noticed always
to fly in the number-three position to the
right in his mob’s V formation.
* * * *
“Linnaeus, Jun.” : A bird that had its origin
in England, but has been acclimatised in cer-
tain parts of Australia for many years, is
so secretive in habit and secluded in habitat
that very few observers have been able te
give an authentic description of it. I refer
to the common tove ( Slithii L. Caralinus ).
In most respects not unlike a pigeon, its
distinguishing characteristic is a peculiar
formation of the beak, which consists of a
pair of interlocking channel-shaped spirals.
When digging for worms or earth-dwelling
insects the tove keeps its mouth shut. It
is only when the prey has been captured and
is about to be devoured that it becomes appa-
rent that the seemingly bony structure of
the bird’s proboscis is flexible, and can be
readily unwound, after which it licks up its
food with its long tongue. Two near rela-
tives of the common tove, Rathii J. Gardenia
and Borogovii Bolshevikii , differ in that they
never close their mouths, keep their tongues
in their cheeks, and instead of hunting for
insects and worms Avait until the carnivorous
bats ( Blindii Classconscia) have accumu-
lated a few, when they stick their beaks into
the bats’ nests and rifle their stores, so
upsetting the poor creatures that they lose
all interest in food-getting and fast for weeks
on end.
* * :!: *
“P.M.”; Long Bill, from the Mallee, de-
cided to give Gippsland a try, but it was too
wet, so after working a season there he
went home. “Don’t like the climate; the
summer’s too blanky short,” he told his
mates. “When is summer down there?” one
of the lads asked him. “Last year,” Bill
replied, “they had it on a Wednesday.”
* * * *
“Erua”: The Fernland magistrate who
asked “What is a Maori?” the other day
would probably have been astonished had he
put the question to the average Maori. Brown
Brother is particularly proud of his lineage,
and the privileges his pakeha countryman
not only concedes to the Maori, but also in
sists on other countries handing out, have
avoided the creation of any inferiority com
plex in the native race. Some time ago I
met a teacher in a Maori college who Avas
agitated because she Avas asked to enrol fair-
haired, blue-eyed children. These girls could
have passed as English anywhere, but they
were proud of the Maori strain. America
and S. Africa marvel at the acceptance of
the Maori on terms of equality, but Australia
permits him the right to vote at Common-
wealth and State elections, the regulations
debarring the Australian abo. and all colored
races, “except the Maoris of New Zealand.”
:l! * *
“Quero”: During the last hot weather the
wife of a farmer up
near the Queens-
land border called
to her husband to
find out what the
baby was playing
with in the yard.
Dad strolled leis-
urely round to
where two-year-old
was amusing him-
self by picking up
a dark object from
the ground, tossing
it in the air, and
when it fell repeat-
ing, with delighted
chuckles, the per-
formance all over
again. After one
glance the horrified
father identified the
plaything as a
death-adder, and
not daring to
startle the baby
began to whistle
softly. The boy
turned, and held up
the snake. The
father went on
whistling, standing
still, and holding
out his pocket-
knife as a counter-
attraction. The
child dropped the
adder in the grass
and ran to take the
knife. A moment
later he was com-
plaining to his
mother that Dad had killed “the thing that
played out in the yard.”
❖ $ i|:
“Hamer”: Knowing “Hamer” as I do (B.
29/5/’29) I don’t think he knows much about
the breeding of nightmares; anyway, I don’t
believe he owned it even if it had his brand.
Its real owner was a man hiding behind the
second column on the same page. This man
was a complete mystery. He was popularly
known as “Beer” Dunne. The mare he
rode was the progeny of a pink elephant
and a purple kangaroo, and was captured in
the district where the farmers get up in
the darkness to harvest the wild oats, which
would stampede in the daytime. The hoofs
of “Beer’s” mare were amazing; never-
SOMETHING FRESH.
MASUMA: “I don’t think that new trader at the store will last long.”
HER SISTER: “What makes you think that?”
MANUMA: “Well, I told dad that the new trader was very fresh this morning; and you
know how tired dad has got of tinned, meat."
theless it was well in the lead coming
into the straight, beating a man-eating croco-
dile by a full trunk, with the Crayfish-Pinky
mare nowhere in sight. Here it met with
interference. “Up Top” was telling a yarn
about the giant groper and the yellow snake
who had ordered a new round of drinks, and
upset his beer. Somebody exploded a theory,
and in the confusion that followed anything
might have happened. Probably it did:
whatever it was it proves the fallacy of
that claim about the nightmare stud. I have
one myself that I bought for threepence from
a hawker who was selling them in a bar.
* Ji * *
“Frigid”: I nominate the Cooktown (N.Q.)
ironwood as the hardest to fell in the Aus-
tralian bush. It grows about 50ft. in height,
with a barrel sft. in girth, covered with a
reddish-brown bark. It is the usual prac-
tice to carry four axes highly tempered when
tackling them. By the time you have chop-
ped one all the axes have big gaps in them.
It is like banging away at a steel rail—the
axe rings and bounces off. Recently some
of the ironwood piles were taken from the
Port Essington jetty, and they were abso-
lutely sound after 60 years’ exposure.
* * * *
“Mango”: Tribal marks on abos. are
usually confined to three horizontal cuts on
the lower ribs or chest. But a native at the
Port George (W.A.) mission has his whole
back covered with them. His shoulders are
scored with longitudinal welts that resemble
sausages laid out side by side, and behind
each biceps there is a pair. Just above the
waistline, Six pairs, eight inches long,
decorate the back after the fashion of a
bandolier. These raised welts are made by
slashing the flesh with a sharp knife or
broken bottle and filling the cut with gidya-
ashes, causing the wound to heal with a per-
manent swelling.
* *
“Professor Potztausend”: The announce-
ment in the Sydney press that two local
residents are preparing to explore the Fly
River in Papua and have already arranged
for a “katamarang” to be placed at their
disposal, moves me, as an old and experi-
enced zoologist, to give some details of this
little-known but necessary accompaniment to
successful exploration in Papua. The crea-
ture, in appearance something between an
upper housemaid and an umbrella, possesses
six limbs, in the use of which it is extra-
ordinarily expert. With the aid of these
it is able simultaneously to hack a pathway
through jungle, slip its employer the joker
from the bottom of the pack, and open a
bottle of whisky—all most necessary accom-
jdisliments for an attendant on a I apuan
safari. The most-favored variety, K.
h c liven otbma g a in ii, has a bright-blue expres-
sion and a twisted proboscis, which it
employs in pulling corks, opening tins of
bullamacow and prospecting for gold. It is
of sporadic occurrence, and is supposed to
have its origin mostly in the hotel bars at,
Samarai and Darn, where its progenitors
have secure hiding-places. Once captured it
displays dog-like devotion to its master,
strenuously resisting all attempts at banish-
ment.
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: Topi entered a
saddler’s shop and asked for one spur. “You
must buy a pair,” said the shopman firmly.
“T’at te sirry way,” growled the native
disgustfully ; “one spur make te one site of
te horse ko—werra, te other site hafe to ko,
too !”
* * * *
“Esau” : Was mending a gate a few days
ago when a hefty young man with Matilda
up came trudging along my way. I asked
him if he was looking for a job. “Too right,
Boss,” he replied; “but not one like I had
across the border last week.” “What was
that?” I queried. “Went up to an old bloke
who was letting some cows through the slip-
rails, and asked him if he had a job,” the
swaggie replied. “The old bloke looked me
up and down, and then told me, as bis
daughter was of marryin’ age, he’d better
kill two birds with one stone, and get a son-
in-law and a likely hand at the same time.
I told him I didn’t want to marry his
daughter or anyone’s daughter. He said
‘all right,’ and asked me to come up to the
house, which I did. I’d no sooner got there
than lie took his gun, and told me he’d blow
me liver out if I didn’t do as he told me.
So I promised to marry the girl to save an
argument. All the way home after the wed-
ding the old bloke kept mutterin’ that he’d
tell Mary all about it. We got home near
sundown, and me father-in-law went straight
down to the shed and bailed up an old brindle
cow. He put his arms around her neck and
started talking to her as if she was a human,
tellin’ her that he’d make me milk her and
the 40 other cows before I went to bed. As
I didn’t want to be milkin’ till morning on
the first night of me honeymoon, I picked
up me bluey and cleared out.”
THE JABIRU.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve Avondered as I’ve watched you stride
On stilted legs o’er marshlands wide
At Nature’s trick that placed on you
For evermore, with all your pride,
The ban of silence, Jabiru.
While other birds their feelings voice,
And loudly with their kind rejoice,
In solemn mood, with bayonet beak,
You mooch around for morsels choice,
Or soar on high, but nevm 1 speak.
Around you hear bird-songs that charm,
With cries anon of quick alarm,
Or joyous chirps o’er grub and crumb;
And all day long by reed and palm
You stand or rove —for ever dumb.
Whilst eagles whistle from the air,
And over some reptilian lair
The kookaburra laughs Avith glee,
You and your mate, a Quaker pair,
Stalk hither and thither noiselessly.
A low tree holds your big stick nest,
Wherein your twin chicks mutely rest,
The quietest babes in birds’ domain;
With stoic patience they are blest
And never in their lives complain.
I’ve wondered as I’ve watched you wade
The swamp or tramp along the glade,
To forage for those calloAV two,
At Nature’s whim that on you laid
The ban of silence, Jabiru.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man, used machinery, tools, store work,
strong and healthy, wants job in Islands. Small
wage.—526. »
Young man (21), G.P.S. education, two years’ ex.
sheep (Q.), knowledge all classes farm work, wants
position jackeroo or hand, station or mixed farm,
anywhere with chance advancement. Refs. —539.
Young lady, N.S.W., refined, college education,
pianist, shorthand and typist, desires position
companion-sec., drive car, good refs. —563.
Lad (164), Sydney, passed intermed., attending
Technical College at night, wants position. Has
bent for draughtsmanship.—611.
Young man (24), exp. stationary and marine oil-
engines, also electric-light plants, three years in
Tropics, wants position Islands or on station. —500.
Q’land man (33) wants correspond with Bulletin
readers, either sex, interested in verse, elocution
and books.—590.
Editor, 40, printer, available take charge country
hi-, tri- or weekly paper beginning of 1930. Pre-
pared to have small financial interest in paying
concern.—605.
Young Tasmanian, two years’ exp. on staff daily
paper, seeks position as copyholder, reader or sport-
ing writer. All-round athlete. Testimonials.—632.
Young man (20), N.S.W., good education, can
drive car, tractor and horses, wants position. Ex-
perience all farm machinery and station work. —634.
Married couple desire position with good family
on N.S.W. sheep station. Wife cook, husband useful.
Urgent.—639.
Young lady, Queensland, good family, wants posi-
tion travelling companion, nursery-governess or
companion one or two ladies. Urgent.—607.
Young lady (25), Queensland, wishing return to
Scotland, will give services in return for passage.
—612.
Ex-officer (34), Sydney, unquestionable character,
initiative and ability to supervise, requires position
overseer or manager Islands or country.—622.
English lady (33), interested in books, dogs, open
spaces, like to correspond with Bulletin readers
acquainted with the “Never Never.”—530.
Sydney man (45) like correspond with Bulletin
readers, either sex, interested in Red Page.—628.
Lady (24), Sydney, wishes correspond Bulletin
readers interested in versecraft and general literature.
—602.
Island resident would like correspond with
readers interested in lore, etymology, etc., of Pacific
Islands, other than New Guinea. —606.
Whereabouts of Harold John Moran, about 60,
believed to be inmate of public institution. (To
U. S. Moran, Tweedvale, S.A.)
Whereabouts H. Clay, Englishman, last heard of
at Darlington, Sydney. (To F. Clay, 94 Exeter-
road, Sherwood Rise, Nottingham, Eng.).
Whereabouts Don or Jack Webb, of Melbourne,
recently visited Argentina. (Macrae, Buenos Ayres,
has something of interest.) —549.
To buy second-hand books on psychology and
psycho-analysis. Especially interested in the part
education plays in development of balanced person-
alities.—558.
To buy “The Twin Creation or Genesis and
Geology,” by La Vaux. —553.
To buy copies of Planters’ Gazette (Fiji), 1921
to 1923 ; also negatives or photos New Guinea and
Solomon Island natives. —557.
To buy Jules Bue’s “French-German Formes,
Idiomatiques, Comparees.”—505.
To buy “Salvation Army and People,” “Britain for
British,” “God and His Book,” by Saledin; and
“Aboriginalities” (Bertie’s Selection from Bul-
letin). —584.
To buy book by De Haupick on Elbof method of
geophysical surveys.—187.
Information Sought.
What are (1) imprisonment for life and
(2) imprisonment for “the term of his
natural life”? —489.
(1) In the case of imprisonment for life
under the N.S.W. Crimes Act a prisoner with
a good record may, in accordance with Prison
Regulations, after the expiration of a period
of years determined by the actuarial expec-
tation of life, petition the Executive for a
remission of his sentence. (2) In imprison-
ment for “the term of his natural life” the
word “natural” indicates the distinction be-
tween the actuarial expectation and the
true life of the offender. For example, it
is found that on the average a man aged
40 lives 274 years more. If imprisoned for
life at 40, a man would (no circumstances
barring the way) be released at 67, or with
concessions for good conduct, etc., at an
earlier age. If imprisoned for the term of his
natural life he remains imprisoned till death.
This does not, however, exclude the exercise
of the Crown’s prerogative of mercy at any
time.
(1) What are prolate duties? (2) How
will they affect my wife and four children
if I die, leaving my Queensland perpetual
lease, stock, implements, etc., valued at
£2000, between them? (Selection mortgaged
for £500.)—364.
(1) At death all your possessions are
valued and on the total (usually with a tax-
able minimum) probate and succession duties
are payable. (2) The Queensland Succession
and Probate Duties Act provides that where
the value of the estate is £300 upwards
a duty (probate) of £1 for every £100
(or part) shall be paid. Also, where the
value of the estate is £1000 or upwards but
does not exceed £2500, a duty (suc-
cession) of 14 per cent, shall be paid where
such estate is divisible between a widow and
children. The percentage increases with the
total value of the estate. There is also a
Federal probate duty. The combined duty
(Federal and State) payable on an estate
of the net value of £2000 is £33 where the
beneficiaries are a widow and children under
21. The rate is slightly higher in respect
of benefits to be derived by other children.
(1) Does mahogany grow wild in Aus-
tralia? (2) If not, tohat is the salmon-
colored native wood sold under that name?
(3) Does teak grow in Australia? (4)
What is Pacific oak? —325.
(1) The mahoganies of Australia are
•mcalypts, and grow in the mixed hardwood
forests of the coasts of N S.W. and Q’land.
They are not identical with the timber known
as mahogany in Europe. This comes from
the West Indies, Honduras and West Coast
of Africa, and belongs botanically to Oedrce-
lacece or cedar tribe. (2) Can’t say on this
information ; but the red mahogany of N.S.W.
( Euc. resinifera) is one of our prime hard-
woods. It is not a true mahogany. (3)
Australian teak ( Hinder sia Australis ) is
one of the finest brushwoods of Australia,
and is of a dull yellowish color. In demand
for carriage work. Distribution now very
limited. But, again, this is not the “teak”’
of British commerce, which is obtained in
India and Burma, and is botanically Tectona
grandis. (4) Pacific oak is a trade name,
and includes timbers of the Pacific Islands,
including Japan, with pronounced oak figure,
and, is quite frequently a species of true
oak ( Qucrcus ).
(1> What is meant by geographic north
and magnetic north? (2) Does an ordinary
compass point to the former or the latter?
(3) I have a compass which has a mark on
the 340 2V.2V.TF. What would this mean? —
494.
(1) Geographic north is the direction
along the meridian that passes through the
North Pole; in other words, a person look-
ing direct to the North Pole would be facing
due north. Magnetic north is the direction
pointed by the magnetic needle of a com-
pass, and differs from geographic north by a
process known as magnetic declination. The
quantity varies with the locality. (2) An
ordinary compass points (approximately) to
magnetic north. (3) The mark on the com-
pass is probably at 337Tdeg., which is geo-
graphic N.N.W. But “geographic” is very
rarely used; the terms are “true” and “mag-
netic.”
(1) When does wheat harvesting com-
mence in Canada? (2) Wages to wheat
harvesters? (3) Third-class fare to Van-
couver? (4) Best time to leave Sydney to
secure job? (5), Where can information as
to jobs available and conditions be obtained?
■ —46 B.
(1) August and September. (2) Usually
from about four to six dollars per day, witli
keep. (3) £3l 10s. (4) End of July or early
in August. (5) B.C. Government Employ-
ment Bureau, Vancouver.
Treatment for a fox-terrier that appears
to be suffering from a form of mange or
eczema? —461.
Wash affected parts with soap and warm
water, and after thorough drying rub in,
following lotion: Oil of eucalyptus, Toz.;
black sulphur, ; olive or fish oil, ~7oz.
Leave on for three days, then wash off, dry
and re-apply. Give pup a dose of laxative
medicine, and feed on a little meat, milk,
green vegetables and gravy and bones. If
you are near a vet. you should have the
dog examined.
(1) Any market in Australia for cobalt
ore? (2) Know anyone who would take a
free working option on a fairly well developed,
shoiv carrying good values?— 4sl.
(1) The market in Australia is very
small and not worth bothering about. But
if you can turn out regular parcels of good-
grade ore or concentrate, you will have no
difficulty in selling; you must, however, pro-
duce regularly. (2) Don’t know of anybody,
but if he exists shall be glad to hear from
him.
(1) A description of pitchblende that
would enable me to recognise it at sight?
(2) What constitutes a payable quantity?
—424.
(1) Practically impossible. If you have
what you think may be pitchblende, send it
to the Director of Government Geological
Museum, Sydney, and ask for opinion. (2)
Depends upon situation of the deposit and
assay value of the ore. Deposits in the
U.S.A. carrying ore assaying up to 7 per
cent, or 8 per cent, uranium oxide do not pay
to work. Czecho-Slovakia, working intermit-
tently, produces a pitchblende assaying 50
per cent, uranium oxide, but the market is
controlled by the Katanga deposits (Bel-
gian Congo).
(1) What i$ sandalwood worth in Hong-
kong? (2) Is there only one class or is it
graded? (3) Does it groic in the Winton
and Hughenden (Q.) districts? (4) Royalty
payable to Government? —366.
(1) Fluctuates considerably; has varied
from £l6 to £4O per ton on wharf, Queens-
land ports. (2) Two classes, viz., loe:s and
chips, the chips being worth about £lO per
ton less than the logs. The roots are worth
the same as the logs unless fire-scarred or
grub-eaten, when they are marketed as chips.
(3) Grows in Hughenden district, and has
been reported also, from Winton ; the iden-
tity of the wood in the Winton district is
being investigated, and probably will be
found to be correct. (4) £4 per ton less a
rebate of £3 per ton to the getter.
(1) Cost of a miner's right to prospect
at Lightning Ridge (2V.Sf.TF.) and where
can I get it? (2) Conditions under which
such right is held? (3) Equipment to work
opal claim and where procurable? (4) Text-
book of use to an opal prospector? —32l.
(1). Two shillings and sixpence for six
months; personally or by post from Mines
Dept., Sydney; the officer-in-charge of police,
Lightning Ridge; or other officers authorised
to issue same in principal towns in the
State. (2) Any holder of a miner’s right
may take possession of an area not exceed-
ing 100 feet by 100 feet as an ordinary
claim to mine for opal by erecting posts and
cutting trenches at each angle and affixing
a possession notice to one post. Principal
conditions attaching to such claim are that
it shall be efficiently worked by at least one
competent miner and that boundary marks
shall be maintained. (3) Miner’s pick and
shovel, 60 or 70 feet of rope, oil-drum or
green hide bucket and a windlass, hammer
and gad. Usually procurable on the field or
at Walgett, the nearest railway station. (4)
A “Prospector’s Guide,” containing particu-
lars of the tenures under the Mining Act and
other information of use to prospectors, may
be got for Is. from officers issuing miners’
rights.
(1) Fares to Port Moresby and Rabaul
from Brisbane by B.P. boats and times of
departure? (2) Must passengers hold Cus-
toms permits and where obtained? (3) Where
to apply regarding advisability of starting
a business in cither place? —497.
(1) Morinda leaves Brisbane about 28th
of each month for Moresby; fare £lB each
way, deck berths 10 p.c. extra. Marsina
and Montoro leave Brisbane for Rabaul
about every three weeks; fare £2l 10s. each
way, deck berths 10 p.c. extra. (2) Yes;
Customs Dept., Brisbane. (3) New Guinea
Trade Agency, 114 A Pitt-street, Sydney.
liccipc for spiced beef? —135.
Take 71b. brisket, 2 tablespoons brown
sugar, soz. saltpetre, common salt, 4oz.
pounded cloves, lloz. allspice. Rub sugar
and spices into meat and let lie 12 hours;
rub in saltpetre and let lie another 12 hours;
rub in salt, and leave in liquor for eight
days, turning daily. When it is to be cooked
take out the bones, roll and tie in neat shape,
soak for two or three hours in water, dry it,
and cover with a paste of flour and water
half an inch thick at least. Put a little
boiling water into a hot meat-tin, place in
the meat, and put into very hot oven. After
10 minutes, reduce oven to moderate, and
cook steadily for 3£ hours. Remove the
paste from the meat,~and glaze it with gela-
tine if liked. Thick flank and rump may be
treated same way.
How to cure and polish bullock horns? —Bo.
If they are fresh, boil them to remove the
pith; if old or sun-dried, examine and scrape
the interiors until clean. Then wash in hot
soapy water, and scrub with a nailbrush.
When dry, rub well with emery powder
mixed with linseed oil, applied with a flannel:
several applications may be necessary to
secure a good finish, and any very rough
parts may be sandpapered. Finish off with
a rubbing of any good furniture cream, and
polish up with a silk duster.
How to make a good sponge sandwich? —
147.
Four eggs, butter, 1 heaped breakfast-
cup Hour, lib. sugar, essence to flavor, jl4
teaspoons baking-powder. Cream butter and
sugar, add essence. Beat yolks and whites
separately and add. Mix powder and flour,
and sift in gradually till well mixed. Place
in a tin well buttered and dusted with icing-
sugar. Sprinkle icing-sugar over the mixture
in the tin and place in a moderate oven for
about half an hour. Sugar should be only
exact quantity given, and well dissolved in
mixing, or the cake will be treacly and heavy.
Eggs should be well beaten and whole cqm-
bined lightly and deftly and placed in oven
as quickly as possible. Avoid very shallow
tins, which allow mixture to overflow and
burn on the sides. Success depends on exact
measurements, quick, light handling and a
good oven.
Would the reading of a published play by
a club where no admission fee is charged be
subject to royalty? —9963.
Copyright in dramatic works means the
sole right to produce or reproduce a play, or
any substantial part of it. Whether a per-
formance is a public one or merely domestic
depends entirely upon the circumstances.
That the performance does not take place in
a regular theatre or hired hall, or that no
charge for admission is made, or that it is
given before members of a club or society
and invited friends does not make the per-
formance other than a public one. The prac-
tice is, however, to allow such readings with-
out payment of royalties.
(1) When was gas first used for commer-
cial purposes in England? (2) Name of
first gas co.? (3) Where and when was the
first gasholder built? —sB.
(1) In 1798 William Murdoch lighted
Boulton and Watt’s foundry at Birmingham
for many successive nights. (2) Gas Eight
and Coke Co., of London, incorporated April,
1812. (2) Small ones were used by experi-
menters on the Continent as early as 1780.
The first gasholder of any magnitude was
that erected by the G. L. and C. Co. in
1812; the holder had a capacity of 14,000
cubic feet.
(1) Breeders of fantail pigeons (N.S.W.)?
(2) Cost per pair? (3) How to feed them?
(4) Cost of food? (5) How to make a
suitable pigeon-loft? (6) When full-grown
are they likely to be attacked by cats? (7)
How to keep them from flying away until
they become accustomed to their new home?
• —235.
(1) L. Brown, H’arris-road, Five Dock.
(2) From ss. to 50s. per pair. (3) Feed on
a clean floor, no more than the birds will
eat. Give six parts pigeon-peas, two parts
small maize and one part wheat by measure.
Add a little extra maize during winter.
Change water twice daily. (4) See local pro-
duce merchant. (5) Build Ift. off ground.
Front, facing north, should be wire netting,
6ft. 6in. high. Back wall, 6ft. high ; width
and depth of loft, 6ft. Side and back walls
should be tongued-and-grooved pine upright
on frame, and roof of 7ft. sheets galvanised
iron. Give exterior three thin coats paint
and limewash interior. For perches use
9in. x 6in. flat boards bracketed to the walls.
(6) Yes. (7) Keep shut up for few days;
then if allowed to walk out on their own
accord in late afternoon they will soon re-
turn to roost. Five or six days’ training
should be sufficient.
How to remove a swamp-oak without fell-
ing it? The nearness of my house makes
that, risky. Could it be poisoned? —sB7.
Don’t poison; once the tree was dead there
would always be a danger of its blowing-
down and causing damage. Lop it and
lower the pieces with a rope.
Does Anybody Know ?
How to treat under side of iron roof so as
to prevent air condensing on frosty nights V
—524.
Brief Answers.
K.H. (W): (1) to (3) Already answered.
(4) Arthur Travers. (5) None known. Communi-
cate with eo. at lrvinebank. (6) Arthur Travers.
(7) Impossible to say. Men are at work on top
at the Governor Norman and Vulcan. A lot of
reconditioning will be necessary. (8) Most were
good producers, the ore going from 1 to 3.6 p.c.,
with richer shoots. Present co. sees good profits
with tin at £2OO (London) A.H.M.: (1) Last
year's profits were four times the pref. dividend, so
it looks safe, anyway. (2) Ye5....0i1: No. I
and No. 2 are both “limited,” so you are liable
for 10s. per share. But you might escape by
selling them... .L.S.R.: All Sydney agents for Island
plantation cos. report that they are fully staffed
and no vacancies are expected for some time....
V. : (1) Before your husband could succeed it
would be necessary for him to show that his father’s
disposition of his property by will had left him
“without adequate provision for his proper main-
tenance.” (2) Submit to, say, Angus and Robert-
son, 89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney... .V.D.0.: What
State are you in?....C.J.: Most large retail stores
will buy if the standard is satisfactory ; send them
samples. Also, get in touch with Gertrude Lambert,
Hon. Sec., Women’s Handicraft Assoc., 69a Market-
street, Sydney... .J.G.: There are many varieties of
lumbago—due to gout, rheumatism, trauma and
fibrositis. Linseed and mustard poultice often gives
great relief; also a partially-filled hot-water bag.
Hot-air treatment is often effective, but you have
to go to a specialist for that. Two aspirins four-
hourly will relieve the pain... .8.A.8.A.: Y r ou can
probably get an instrument for about £lO to improve
your hearing. Go and see an ear specialist. . . .H.W.:
Try removing your rubber heels and soak your feet in
hot water as soon as you come h0me,...C.D.: (1)
No. (2) They will not do you any good. (3) No.
You are worrying quite unnecessarily about this.
There are many people like you and they are per-
fectly normal HIL.D.: Best route from Cessnock
to Wanaaring is by way of Branxton, Muswellbrook,
Mudgee, Wellington and Bourke. Approx, distance,
680 miles... .T. 8.: Editor of Seep and Nursery
Trader, 78a Victoria-street, Melbourne, may be able
to put you in touch with people who could utilise
your services.... G.E.5.8.: Walther and Stevenson,
Ltd., 395 George-street; O. B. Bolton, Daily Tele-
graph Buildings, King-street—both Sydney... .J. 8.:
Use Eastman’s Opaque, any photographic supply
house. It can be easily removed by soaking negative
in water and wiping with cotton wool. .. . M.C.:
Waterproof oilskin dressings can be got ready mixed
from most paint and hardware stores. Failing these,
apply two or three coats of boiled linseed 0i1....
J.J.D.: Of course. In case of a red-hot and heavily-
laid fancy, individual layers might “shut the bag” ;
or a horse may be reserved for the sake of the
“book”.. . .H.J.M.: Local Government Department,
Sydney, will upon application supply a typewritten
memorandum showing procedure for formation of a
new municipality... .E.E.H.: (1) Cannot say. (2)
Craig and Aitken, 654 George-street, Sydney....
W. : (1) Ask N.S.W. Agricultural Department for
pamphlet on the potato moth. (2) Aus. Glass
Co., Waterloo, Sydney. (3) Yates and Co., Ltd.,
184 Sussex-street, Sydney... .F.J.T.: Begin by col-
lecting such marine life as interests you and taking
it to the Australian Museum, where there are
specialists who will be pleased to identify the
specimens. As interest is awakened in any par-
ticular group of animals you could be put in touch
with literature dealing with that group, and so
learn to identify your own specimens... .E.M.C.:
Majestic (formerly Bismarck) was built by Blohm
and Voss, Hamburg, 1914; gross tonnage, 56,621
tons; length, 956 ft.; breadth, 100 ft. ; height, 102 ft.
from keel to boat deck; speed, 25 knots. She
entered the White Star Line in 1922... .D.F.: A
transition or easement curve is a railway term
meaning “any curve for joining a tangent to another
curve so as to prevent any sudden change of
direction”.... 1.W.: The Orsova was built in 1909.
R.E.F.A.: See recipe B. 5/6/’29 E.L.: No
commercial value... .8.F.C.: The finest wool is
grown on the lighter pastures. If sheep are removed
to stronger and more nutritious pasture the wool
alters in character and becomes coarser... .H.M.C.:
“The Montessori Method,” by Maria Montessori (11s.
6d.), Philip and Sons, 451 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Inquire also about another called “The Montessori
Mother”... .J.C.: Try Paterson, Laing and Bruce,
2 Wynyard-street; D. and W. Murray, Ltd., 11l
York-street—both Sydney... .V.C.J.: Try H. Chis-
holm and Co., 56 Hunter-street, Sydney... .E.G.8.:
From the facts stated you would be liable for her
maintenance, etc. Why not see the secretary and
arrange payment by instalments? C.A.P.: No
regulations govern the manufacture of this class
of goods. There are, however, a few simple rules
governing labelling of such goods, which can be
obtained from Vic. Health Dept., 295 Queen-street.
.... 5.8.: Get in touch with J. Hudson, 16 Russell-
street, Coburg; Lyndhurst Kennels, 55 Bridport-
street, South Melb.; or “Burkebridge,” Ivanhoe —
all Victoria... .5.1.5.: Write Eliza Tinsley Pty., Ltd.,
640 Bourke-street, Melbourne, and ask for booklet,
“Advice on How to Sharpen Wood-working Tools.”
. ...W.T.A.: Send to Rev. G. McL. Scott, Manse,
Cloncurry (Q.) R.W.: (1) and (2) N.S.W. Act
provides that where any dispute arises between
parties as to the necessity or sufficiency of dividing-
fence, it may be referred to two persons to be
mutually chosen; failing agreement between them,
then to an umpire whose decision is final. (3) and
(4) The sufficiency of a fence depends largely on
local circumstances... .D.S.: As for the deposit, no
—definitely. There is more risk in the other than
you should take. You can get 5J p.c. from the
Water Board, and you won’t get much more with
safety... .J.H.8.: It is not a strong co., and you’ll
certainly do poorly in the matter of bonuses. Why
will so many of you insure first and make inquiries
afterwards?.. . .S.M.T. (Wagga) : 299 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney J.J.8.: A special lease in N.S.W.
may be transferred with the consent of the Minister.
Apply, with deposit of 10s., to Crowh Land Agent,
or N.S.W. Lands Dept., Sydney J. 8.: Figures at
June, 1926, were—Australia: Horses, 2,122,516;
cattle, 11,963,278; sheep, 104,267,101 ; pigs, 989,009.
England and Wales: Horses, 1,128,796; cattle,
6,253,085; sheep, 16,858,685; pigs, 2,200,012....
M.M.G.: (1) There is a system of exchange of
schoolteachers between N.S.W. Education Depart-
ment and British Isles. (2) Exchanges are for one
year, exclusive of time spent in travelling
W.J.: An ex-soldier in receipt of war pension at
£1 is. per fortnight is eligible to have his pension
commuted to a lump sum. Apply Repatriation
Commission, Chalmers-street, Sydney... .A.H.M.:
There is no reason to fear anything of the sort
H.L.: (1) Inquiring. (2) Applicants for employ-
ment in technical trades attached to the R.A.F. are
required to pass certain tests. Write Secretary,
Air Board, Defence Department, Melbourne... .H.V.:
(1) and (3) Will take some time to find out. (2)
Walter Jardine, Kembla Building, Margaret-street
Sydney K.W.A.S.: G. C. Dixon wrote a critical
article about him. See Red Page 6/l/’27 f.A.G :
Not acceptable in that form; send one for each..
(Many others mailed.)


77?
A
rV
m
m
SS
'IA
rC
-j%'i£ 'A?
( <.'<>
1 /
m*' 2 ?
/ !!
.*ii-f,t
i • ' -
a«i
3/
nn
USiiii
r n
FRAME OF A
. . r^.. : :-rP2
HOLDEN BODY
St^gSSjA
a&r.-r:
LEFT FRONT
TOP CORNER
BRACE
CENTRE
PILLAR
BRACE
fa^§
*w\\
j!Sm
S.W. •„» i>V ‘-Tr*
• i '' .pA^V,
v:
tavlor
Service
*
A
Cr
S&
Rigidity and long life lie
hidden in the framework of
every Holden Body.
AREFULLY selected, every
piece of material is mortised
and drilled by machinery to ensure
accuracy. Such pieces are rigidly
built up in a master frame, screwed,
glued and heavily braced.
This sturdiness results in a resiliency
that absorbs road shocks and main-
tains rigidity of the structure.
Complete insulation between steel
and wood ensures quiet travel.
A Holden Body is a guarantee
of permanently tight-fitting doors
and windows—and of World
Quality.
The emblem of world
quality in motor bodies
HOLDEN S
MOTOR. BODY BUILDERS
L- I /V\ ITED
ADEL A IDE,
MELBOURNE, SYDN E Y AND
BRIS B ANE


&
We Unload Stock
promptly on arrival, day or night, handle them
carefully, class them skilfully, value them accurately
and sell them at top market figures.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Homebush Yards, Enoggera Yards,
Sydney, Brisbane.
Truck sheep, lambs, cattle, calves, pigs, to
Winehcombe, Carson.
Offices: Winehcombe House, Bridge Street, Sydney;
and 99-101 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £250,000
ALL CLASSES OF INSURANCE EFFECTED.
Probate Disability, Extended Insurance, Non-Forfeiture,
Hospital, Medical and Nurse’s Fees Combined.
Make the event which causes the tax create the cash to pay the tax.
HEAD OFFICE: Hunter House, 26 Hunter Street, SYDNEY,
A. MeLEAN, Managing Director. r. v. BOOTH, Secretary
INQUIRIES INVITED.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter § Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
“The Bulletin” offered two prizes (£2O
and £10) to the writers of the most useful
contributions to this page during the first
half of the year in addition to the ordinary
payments.
Points are to be awarded not only for
all contributions printed but for all con-
tributions submitted, if worthy of points.
The winners will be announced on July 10.
On the same date arrangements for
the future will be announced.
The prizes have stimulated the contri-
bution of hints and other information of
the utmost value to farmers of every kind;
and it is felt that the practice ought to
be continued in some form, inasmuch as,
owing to the fall in the price of wool,
wheat, etc., better and more economical
farming is more necessary than ever, and
hints and other information to secure
these results are therefore more indis-
pensable.
♦
FEEDING OFF GRAIN CROPS.
“R.D.A.” : In favorable seasons the imme-
diate effect of this practice is to promote
the stooling of the plant. This phenomenon
misleads many good farmers into feeding-off
their growing grain crops regularly, with the
idea that such treatment must increase the
yield. There is much practical evidence
that feeding-off depresses the yield—the sheep
benefit but not the crop.
Provided the farmer considers his loss of
grain yield amply recouped through his sheep,
there is nothing to be said against it, except
that he gambles, as far as the ultimate yield
of the crop is concerned, on favorable
weather following the feeding-off. Any far-
mer who could hit the bull’s-eye with pro-
phecies of weather four months ahead would
be worth £5,000,000 a year to Australia.
Generally, the average farmer will do
well to leave it alone; in any case, its
legitimate use is confined solely to those
grain crops which, through favorable
weather conditions, etc., have become so
forward that they are likely to lodge or go
down during the winter and spring.
If the season or lack of feed forces your
hand, remember that barley and rye will
stand feeding-off better than wheat, and
wheat better than oats. Rye will not lodge,
whilst Algerian is the only oat which can
be fed off safely and then yield satisfactorily.
Don’t feed-off until the crop is Gin. high, or
the sheep will pull up tor many plants.
Don’t feed-off when the soil or crop is wet.
Heavy soils will pug without great care in
this direction, and the pnysical condition of
the soil may be ruined. Light and sandy
soils are not usually dangerous in this
respect.
Feed-off rapidly, and don’t keep the sheep
on a crop longer than a week. It is better
to put on 30 sheep to the acre for four days
than 15 sheep per acre for seven days.
Besides, the heavier stocking will ensure the
rank patches getting the same (and most
necessary) treatment as the more attractive
shorter growth.
Don’t feed off a weedy crop—after the
sheep have gone the weeds may beat the
crop. Feed off as early in the season as is
possible.
If the crop is wheat or rye, harrow it
across the drill lines after the sheep, and
don’t be frightened at what you see. Barley
and oats won’t stand harrowing like the
other two. If the intent be to feed-off and
then to harvest for grain, sow the crop
early with a little extra seed and manure.
It is better to grow a stubble crop for
fodder purposes only (still better to top-dress
the grazing paddocks) than to jeopardise the
yield of grain from a cash crop by feeding
it off. Barley and oats do well as a stubble
crop following wheat.
Finally, never feed off a crop intended for
hay, and always sow a variety that will
stand up well.
FERTILISER PRICES.
“Ruffle”: “Yeoman” is wide of the mark
when he says the list of “unit values is fixed
every year by the Vic. Department of Agri-
culture, and on the basis of 1929 values cur-
rent prices charged for super, appear
reasonable.” The department does not fix
values. All it does is to compute average
values of various fertiliser constituents on
the basis of the prices charged by various
manufacturers. If manufacturers increased
their prices 50 per cent, the department’s
unit values would go up 50 per cent.
A better guide to values will be found in
the analyses guaranteed by manufacturers
and published yearly in the January number
of the Vic. Agricultural Journal. There
you will find, for instance, that sulphate of
ammonia may be bought from the gas com-
pany nearly £2 per ton cheaper than else-
where, and of a slightly higher grade.
PASTURES IMPROVEMENT.
“Vernon” : The easiest and cheapest way
to increase the wool-clip is to lay down pas-
tures. Where this can be done it will give
a better return than top-dressing. The best
method is to plough up your richer soils and
sow grasses suitable for the soil, fertilising
with super. For the rich, heavy soils in
New England (N.S.W.) and similar climates
there is nothing to beat Phalaris bulbosa.
It gives a wonderful growth throughout the
year, and keeps green through even winter
droughts. Land that used to carry one sheep
to the acre can easily be made to carry six
as well as a few cattle on this pasture. The
seed is rather 'hard to obtain, and is expen-
sive, , so it is best sown with other grasses
or clovers. A mixture that can be recom-
mended is 41b. Phalaris bulbosa and lib.
lucerne or red clover to the acre. If only a
small amount of Phalaris is obtainable it
may be reduced to lib. Phalaris, ]2lb. peren-
nial rye or Poverty Bay rye, and lib. lucerne
or clover. The rye gives a very good growth,
but in time gradually dies out under intense
grazing, but the Phalaris spreads very
quickly, and in a few years, if kept fed down
well, the pasture will be found to contain
very little rye, but a thick mat of Phalaris
and clover.
For the lighter sandy soils, of which the
greater part of southern New England con-
sists, cocksfoot is more favored than Phalaris.
The best mixture is composed of cocksfoot,
Wimmera rye and English trefoil (also called
yellow clover). Sheep’s burnet also does
'well in this class of soil.
Autumn is the best time for sowing, as a
good growth will appear when it is most
needed before the spring, but sowing can be
done any time in the winter up till the end
of June. It must not be later, as the hot
sun in spring and summer is likely to wither
the young plants before they are properly
rooted. Work the ground till it is very fine
but fairly firm. Then sow the seed and
spread the super. On no account make any
attempt to cover the seed with harrows ; the
utmost that is needed is a light rolling. Super,
should be spread at the rate of 1 to 1J cwt.
to the acre. This should be repeated next
year. After the second year it is found in
many cases that a dressing every other or
every third year is sufficient.
There is no need to fence this ground off
from the rest of the paddock. Sheep or
cattle walking on it and grazing when the
first shoots appear improve the pasture more
than anything. There is no need to worry
about weeds. What the frost doesn’t, cut the
Phalaris or cocksfoot will gradually choke
out.
It is unnecessary to fence off these intro-
duced grasses after they are established. It
will be found, as with lucerne, that stock
will graze on them for some time, and then
move off and eat even the roughest of dry
grass. If stock are kept on Phalaris alone
they will be found to scour badly, and the
meat will be very sloppy, although they are
fat. Two and a half to three acres of ordi-
nary pasture to one of introduced grasses
provides the best balance.
It is not feasible in most cases for a man
to lay down a quarter of his property in in-
troduced grasses in one season. It is much
better to try a part of a paddock the first
year, and if it is a success to extend opera-
tions year by year.
Now, as to cost. The price of Phalaris
fluctuates, but is never much above 7s. per
lb.; clover costs Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. per lb;
super., 7s. per cwt. Therefore the cost of
sowing 41b. Phalaris —lib. clover—2cwt.
super., is about £2 3s. 6d. One man should
do at least one acre a day. using a double-
furrow plough. Putting the labor at 15s.
per acre, the total cost is under £3 per acre
—not much to pay for capacity to carry an
additional four or five sheep to the acre. Be-
sides, it takes only a few years to get your
money back, as there is no further expense
save for top-dressing, about 2s. 4d. per
year, as Phalaris, once established, will last
for ever with an occasional harrowing.
LIMING THE PASTURES.
“Hatter”: Most of the discussion regard-
ing the value of lime hinges on the extent
of acidity in Australian soils. “J.C.” (B.
22/5/’29) and others admit its usefulness to
correct acidity, but state that "soils that lack
sufficient calcium to grow good crops are
extremely rare.” This, which is true only of
certain crops that are acid-tolerant, confuses
the issue. A farmer may lime his oats or
potatoes and find his yield no better. He
considers that he has proved lime to be a
useless expense, but these crops are among
those that do not respond "to lime, and igno-
rance of this fact has led him to a wrong
conclusion. No doubt the growth on his
oat stubble was much improved, but he pro-
bably would not connect this with the lime.
Clovers and grasses, however, are among the
plants that object strongly to acidity. The
lime contents of most of Australian soils
are low—so low that in many districts defi-
ciency disease is very marked—and the wast-
age is heavy. Being very soluble, lime _is
continually being washed away by the rain,
and is also taken up in solution by the
herbage for conversion into milk and bones
of animals. It stands to reason that this
heavy annual loss must be replenished or
the soil will gradually become acid. Although
it is true that commercial phosphates have
a calcium base, in the case of super, this base
is in the form of sulphate of lime or gypsum,
which is of little value. It is calcium car-
bonate that is required. Lime is not a
fertiliser, to be applied in place of super.
On the contrary, the old adage is absolutely
true:—
Lime and lime without manure
Makes both farm and fanner poor.
Lime has, however, a physiological effect
upon the soil which enables it to make better
use of the super. It should be noted too
that where sulphate of ammonia is used
heavy dressings of lime are even more essen-
tial. S. of a. is largely used where pas-
tures feceive intense cultivation, because,
being insoluble in water, it has a tendency
to remain in the surface layers of the soil
where the shallow grass roots lie. It has
been found that the land after a time be-
comes increasingly sterile under this treat-
ment. There is a loss of 1001 b. of calcium
carbonate for every 1321 b. of s. of a. sup-
plied, and heavy dressings of lime are re-
quired to restore the land to its former
richness.
UNIRRIGATED LUCERNE.
“Curlew”: The splendid returns obtained
from lucerne on rich soils and under irriga-
tion have served to encourage the idea that
a rich soil and abundance of water are neces-
sities for its growth. They arc not essen-
tial. Any district having a 20-inch rainfall
(or even a little less) will, with good man-
agement, produce a good crop of lucerne.
Heavy clay soils, or those that are water-
logged, are not suitable, but in any free soil
the plant can be established and will give
satisfaction.
It is advisable to prepare the land thor-
oughly. A well-worked bare fallow will give
an ideal seed-bed, having the maximum of
soil mixture with plenty of readily-available
plant-foods and a minimum of weeds. Where
subterranean clover is a success lucerne can
be established, and will give greater satisfac-
tion, as every shower will give some fresh
growth at almost any time in the year.
James Barnes, of Suffolk Yale, Boorowa
(N.S.W.), has about 800 acres under lucerne,
almost all of it on hilly country, 1600 ft.
above sea-level. The winters are cold, and
heavy frosts are experienced. The rainfall
is about 23in. per annum. The seeding has
been 61b. to the acre, which has given a good
stand.
BREEDING THE FAT LAMB.
“A.J.8.”: I don’t agree with those who
favor Suffolk as a sire of fat lambs for
export. The lambs grow very rapidly, more
rapidly than the progeny of other sires;
but they are very coarse, heavy and un-
shapely, especially when at the weight, 301 b.
to 351 b., that has so much significance in the
London market. It has been emphasised
more than once in these columns that the
lamb that has most value in London is the
one with short, full-muscled hindquarters,
straight, well-rounded loins, indicative of a
high meat-content, deep forequarters and
short neck. Here the appearance counts for
naught; there it counts at least 50 p.c.
The Roseworthy College in S.A. carried
out some experiments in lambs for export,
sent the carcases to England, and obtained
a report from the salesmen. Out of four
lines the Southdown was first, second and
third. In the Vic. Department of Agricul-
ture experiments the lambs were, I believe,
sold locally, which gave no criterion of their
worth for export.
CHOOSING FRUIT STRAINS.
“X.5A.”: Too much consideration cannot
be given to the varieties of fruit trees to be
planted in the commercial orchard. Even
after many years of experience there remain
very few growers, if any, who are satisfied
with their trees. Particularly is this so
amongst growers of deciduous fruits.
Apples, of which there are admittedly far
too many varieties, are being drastically re-
duced in that respect, and will in the near
future number less than 20. Experts agree
that 12 would be sufficient. Care, then,
should be taken to ensure that any new
plantings will find their names amongst the
favored.
Pears grown commercially are not likely to
meet with drastic reductions in type, except-
ing where affected by local conditions. On
a general average pears are more adaptable
to soils than are most other varieties of
fruits. The main features to observe are
seasonal and carrying or holding capacity.
As the pear-grower has to wait several years
before his trees begin to pay, he should make
sure.
New varieties of stone-fruits are always
being exploited, but very few retain perma-
nent popularity. The main consideration
with these is succession. It is little use
planting large areas which will ripen prac-
tically during the same week. So select
good cropping types of attractive fruits which
will hold, and grow them to follow each other
on the market.
Grapes are easy to select, because they
have automatically adjusted their varieties.
Inferior types' are nearly extinct, but the
suitability for the required purpose must be
considered. Large berries are a necessity in
these days, therefore varieties must be chosen
which will suit local growing conditions.
iCitrus fruits are now being driven, off the
poorer highlands, excepting where deep, sandy
soils are to be found. Mandarins and naval
oranges are proving unprofitable under
any other conditions. The new citrus orchard
will contain only Emperor mandarins, Wash-
ington navels, late Valencia oranges and
sweet-rind lemons. No others need apply,
and sand will be a necessary component in
the soil.
Loquats, persimmons, pomegranates and
fruits of that nature are doomed. Even the
school children will not be bothered with
them. The same will apply to all inferior
types, no matter in what profusion they bear.
Fruit-growing is fast becoming a business
for the specialist,, and in a very few years
the mixed orchard will cease to exist as a
commercial undertaking. Therefore the new
orcliardist should take his choice of citrus,
summer, pome or other fruits, seek out
a suitable location, and then secure the very
latest advice as to varieties —not, of course,
relying upon the optimistic descriptions to
be found in the nurseryman’s catalogue.
THE HARDY ABERDEEN-ANGUS.
“Bullwaddy” : “Spike” says that the Aber-
deen-Angus cattle are “as soft as cheese”
and not in the hunt when asked to live on
scrub land. I have had 40 years’ experience
of this breed in all classes of country,
especially in the snowy mountain country of
Southern N. S. Wales, and have always re-
marked that they come through a lean time
as well as if not better than Durham, Here-
ford or Devon.
I saw a line of three-year-old AA bullocks
brought out of the mountains, where they
had been bred, and fattened in a paddock
on the Tumut River. On being killed at
four years they averaged 8501 b. dressed, and
several of them went over 10001 b.
I have seen cattle of this breed running
on Bunya Mountains (Q.) among a herd of
Herefords, and more than holding their own
for condition and weight.
I saw 500 black-polled bullocks brought
from drought-stricken country in N. S. Wales
and turned into a paddock in the Charle-
ville district (Q.), where they had to de-
pend solely on mulga—a scrub they had
never seen before. In a week’s time they
were quite at home and breasting down more
scrub than they could eat.
BUYING A BOAR
“F. 0.5.”: Where possible, select the boar
at his own home, where you can get an idea
of his relations, his pedigree, his piggery,
and, last but not least, his owner. Select
the boar to suit your piggery, keeping in
mind the type of sow he is to be mated with.
He should possess masculinity without being
coarse, vigor and constitution, these charac-
teristics being indicated by strong develop-
ment of the head, neck and shoulders and a
good girth. Quality is shown by fine bone.
Make a note of this feed so that when in-
stalled in his new home he can be fed the
same, gradually changing over to the menu
of your own pigs. It is advisable to pur-
chase the boar at least six months before
he is required, as this gives him time to
settle down and to undergo a quarantine
probation.
Be chary of selecting show boars, as defects
are often hidden under condition. Also they
have to be starved down before they can be
used.
(Continued on page 32.)


BEDSTEADS LTD.
Forsters Bedsteads, Ltd., manufactured the first
Hospital Bedstead in Australia, and are still
manufacturing the finest Hospital Bedsteads used
throughout the Commonwealth .
f
A very up-to-date Bedstead used in numerous hospitals
throughout the Commonwealth. Has adjustable back and
Hercules Diamond Wire. Made with 1 £in. posts. Can be
made with square corners at foot end if required, also lift-
out foot end.
jr
This Mobile Bedstead is the hnest hospital bedstead made.
The mobile attachment at foot is simply manipulated without
jolting the patient. The large ball-bearing rubber-tyred castors
ensure smooth wheeling. Fitted with Hercules Diamond Wire.
The largest plant of its kind in the Southern Hemi-
sphere manufacturing all kinds of Hospital equip-
ment.
FORSTERS BEDSTEADS
LIMITED
(Established 1859),
MARY ANN STREET, ULTIMO, SYDNEY
’Phone M 4247 (3 lines).
zasf
U f- 1
r
4SStaC
/£
xwm'
C7^ e
thousand nights
and one night.
k Ohc REAL.
Arabian Nights
w//A nothing left out /
THESE are the marvelous tales which Scheherezade,
doomed to death, related to the King, that he might
stay the hand of execution. She had wondrous tales to
tell, some of boiling passion, some of rollicking humour,
some of deep pathos ; but all of the purest romance. The King
could not resist their intense human appeal. He must hear
them all. The executioner's knife rested in its sheath. For
One Thousand Nights and One Night this queen of story-
tellers entertained His Majesty as no king or commoner had
ever been entertained before—nor has been since !
The “ Arabian Nights ” is honoured in all countries as
man's finest achievement and legacy in Romantic Fiction.
The “ London Times ” says : “ Burton cut out a great
deal. The Mardrus version is very much fuller in detail.”
This great masterpiece has been printed from the revised
manuscript of E. Powys Mathers. New plates have been made.
New illustrations have been painted. Now, for the first time,
those wondrous stories of “ The Thousand and One Nights ”
are made available to Australian readers in all their original
splendour. The fragmentary translations with which you are
familiar—abridged, revised, expurgated, usually presented
in a single volume—can give you little conception of the true
nature of these exotic Oriental masterpieces.
A great French artist, Dr. J. C. Mardrus, has given us a literal
translation of the unblushing Arabian text. Rendered into
English by E. Powys Mathers ; an accurate English version
of every word in the original tales.
FREE booklef/
K descriptive booklet, giving full de-
tails will be sent free on request.
Mail the coupon for your copy
at once. Only a limited
number of sets are
available for dis-
tribution in
Australia.
The
WAVERLEY
BOOK CO.
12 Spring St., Sydney
P.Q. Box 1767 K
Without obligation or cost
to me, kindly forward your booklet,
describing “ The REAL Arabian Nights.’'
Name. _
Address
Bulletin, 12/6/-9.


Typically Australian
just like the Flag!
DUNLOP
u
U COMPANY L
IP
Ry
V
r
/
c-c \
<
/<&')
\\ V x -
osk \\ /L
0 Jffjtfo
o W
\
\\
«
(KJ
the cot
of Dunlop
has brought i n]
tralian Comp an
for efficiency w
to meet the rap
and constantly c / ;
ments in the R ubl
The outcome W ji,
Better Goods
Loiver Cost of /
*> Stans,
Co-ordination
Greater Value tr
("11/^
0 Upn"
*5B
/f.N
/N
-Jo
o
‘M
it
Bfflß
O
§
anzu
%>,
Fa!
ffli
'K.
/
X \
o
o
f*
1,11
CCr" tr" ) 4_T ;
iJJijJ.UiUIIU
,1
ITTTI
fffi
@l^
C<l( f J
itiai!!
(£v
(Lv
Ifl
ft
a/?<y.
Better Servi Ce
Iperdria^,
DUNLOP
Ir
ir
ir i
The i


y
%
%
H( (
■ln
a n I
m
jus I
7
TH£ policy
n of
u nlop p , .
er driau Orrr
be b 3Se . a ««at, o„
°%u'!*A ao "h£? o gl/y™*
th “°ens u b Y a
*** rr.de i' ng to .^ P uVr nCO ~
Persona/ 7 and
***«*. « "f *«4 7 ' hjt
rb.u Prestige Z*"*- &W
tl] e new, p tre asured , B .°°dwiH
C ° m P3ny, heat *ge of
SaST- Sc °pr, wh-
and "* to focus ol !! h,cil Hrtfj
Patrons CS to the 7 ener^’e s
i Volume! ”
DUNLOP PERDRIAU
RUBBER CO. Ltd.
* * *
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide
Brisbane. Perth, Launceston


ABBEYS:
A Stronger Sole
Almost double the usual
thickness—in a neatly-finished
Abbey Shoe of the toughest
leather. This shoe is sur-
prisingly flexible and has the
special arching over instep that
makes for unsurpassed comfort.
ORDER BY POST.—FuII and half-
sizes available in three widths
narrow, medium and wide. Ask
for the correct Abbey Polish also
6d. per tin.
BLACK OR TAN CALF, 35/-
Enlarged catalogue of men’s and women’s
footwear post free.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St. Sydney
FPLI2B
FOR ALL SPORT
BUY
THE SPORTING GLOBE
The Leading Australian Authority with the largest
staff of Sporting Experts and Special Representatives
in all States. The staff includes:—
“MUSKET” The Turf
“BAIL” Cricket
W. S. SHARLAND Football
PAT ' O’HARA WOOD Tennis
J. J. MAHER Cycling
J. M. DILLON Golf
A. L. DOBBIE Rowing
TOM MOBLEY Coursing
MAURIE COLLINS Bowls
IT. C. BROOKE Yachting
New South Wales edition available-
every Thursday, price 3d.
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins ... 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
POST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
“KANGAROO”
FIELD GATES
Made in our own factory under
skilled supervision. Only the best-
quality lain, diameter steel tubing is
used. All joints are electrically
welded, thus making the gates excep-
tionally strong. - ALL “KANGAROO”
FIELD GATES ARE NOW COVERED
WITH 6-LINE "KANGAROO” RING-
LOCK FENCING, an innovation
which adds very much to their
strength. Our patent hinge brings
the gate to within £in. of gate post.
Our special pipe-bending machine
turns the bottom corners of gates
exactly at right angles. This does
away with joins and makes the gate
stronger. Fitted with patent latch.
All gates, unless otherwise specified,
are 3ft. I Oin. high.
Fig. RLIOB.
Very strong tubular steel gate; our
cheapest farm gate. 10ft., 27/-; lift.,
28/-; 12ft., 30/- each.
sd
Fig. 80.
Tubing lpn. steel, and fitted with
patent hinges and latch. Price: Bft.,
30/-; Oft., 31/-; 10ft., 33/6; lift.,
35/-; 12ft., 37/6.
Prices F.O.R. or F. 0.8. Melb.
Send jor jree “Kangaroo” Fencing
Catalogue.
Manufactured by
D. gW. CHANDLER LTD.
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy.
Hargreaves Street, Bendigo.
Lava Street, Warrnambool.
Pynsent Street, Horsham.
VICTORIA.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND AND FINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY Also at WAOGA & HENTY, LONDON, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE.
Auction Sales 5 WOOL, FAT STOCK, GRAIN, SHEEPSKINS,
Throughout the Year I HIDES, TALLOW, FURRED SKINS, etc.
Cash Advances on rastoral Properties and Stock, Wool, Grain and Produce.
Offices: 4 Rligh Street, Sydney. JAMES KIDD, General Manager for Australia.
EXAMINATION FOR TOWN AND SHIRE CLERKS.
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and enter a profession
where there is a certainty of employment are advised to send for our Prospectus. Here is one
profession where the supply is not equal to the demand. NOW is the time to begin.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
“Suburban ”
Afforestation
Every person who has read or has been told
about afforestation—whether he has invested
or not—should send for particulars now of
A.N.Z.I.L. PERPETUAL INCOME AND
THRIFT BONDS.
A gilt-edged investment and an entirely new conception of afforestation offering
IMMEDIATE, INTERMEDIATE and FUTURE RETURNS, with the soundest principles of
scientific and properly-conducted planting for profit yet offered.
Afforestation and Flax—Plus Interest and Insurance.
Investigate!—To do so is to INVEST.
AUSTRALIAN & NEW ZEALAND INVESTMENTS, LTD.,
17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
DAIRYING FOR BEGINNERS.
“L.G.W.” : A beginner who wishes to make
a home of liis own in the bush, and who is
prepared to stick it through thick and thin
(a qualification absolutely necessary), will
find nothing to compare with dairy-farming,
especially if he has little or even no capital.
But he must go the right way about it. lie
must have a genuine love for animals and
country life, and disabuse his mind of all
notion of keeping banking hours on the farm.
Should he have had no experience, it would
be wise for him to get a job on a good dairy-
farm, keep his eyes and ears open, and not
be afraid to take on any item of farm work
that turns up. lie will have to work hard,
but if he has a real liking for the life he
will find most of what he has to do of such
interest that work will be a pleasure. A
year or so working for wages should fit him
to take a small farm on the share system.
By this means he will gain a full knowledge
of the work—the care of the herd, the rear-
ing of poddies and the breeding and feeding
of pigs.
While lie is working on a share farm it
is of first importance that the novice should
not have on his mind the idea that he is
working for a boss, and be afraid that if
1*:; is too industrious the boss will get too
much out of him. The bigger the boss’s share
the bigger will be his also. A good man
working on shares is not a share farmer for
long.
When he feels capable of tackling a farm
of his own the beginner’s safest plan will bo
to rent a farm. If he has sufficient capital to
stock it, so much the better, but if he has
proved himself a good man and stays in
the district where he is known, he won’t
have much difficulty in financing the stock-
ing. Should lie have enough capital to stock
u farm and pay a small deposit, there will
be nothing to stop him buying a farm straight,
away. The Government Savings Bank, Rural
Bank, etc., will help him. lie will get hard
knocks, and plenty of them; but if he has the
mettle to see things through he will come
out all right.
As to methods of farming, the getting to-
gether of the right kind of milkers is the
idea he must continually keep in mind. If
his capital is limited, he cannot, at first,
pick and choose, but if lie has been wide-awake
during his time on the land he will have
made up his mind what breed to go in for.
Having made his decision he must stick to
it, otherwise he will get a nondescript herd
that he will find hard to cull and purify later
on. tie should buy only young stock, for
preference springing heifers. He mustn’t
buy old cows no matter how cheap they
appear, because in a season or two they
will be worth nothing. Then lie must be
prepared to make any sacrifice at the start
to get a really good bull. A mistake here will
haunt him for years.
As to pigs, a few young well-grown sows,
in number according to the size of his herd,
will be the thing. They need not be pedi-
gree stock, but he must have a good, pure-
bred boar. In buying horses, the same applies
as to the cows—buy them young.
When the herd has got going the aim
should be to have them producing all the
year round. As a rule the best plan is to
have the larger proportion of the herd at
their best in the summer, when production
is cheapest. For the winter and spring
grow a supply of green feed, such as oats,
wheat, skinless barley, etc. These crops will
be grown in paddocks that carried maize
in summer for pig feed. The heifer calves
from the best cows must be reared. It will
be a couple of year’s before they come into
the herd, but then the owner can start cull-
ing in earnest and building up a tip-top herd.
CHANGING POTATO SEED.
“Will Seer” : A change of seed' is common
amongst farmers, and providing you know
what you are getting the practice has ad-
vantages. In Vic. many potato-growers
change their seed periodically— most of the
large growers on black or grey soils in
Gippsland shrewdly follow their seed to a
red-soil district and unostentatiously buy it
back the following season. The red-soil
tubers are first-favorites in Vic. Almost
without exception grey soils and subsoils
contain considerably less potash than the
chocolate or red soils and subsoils, par-
ticularly those of volcanic origin. It is
well known that the potato is a potash-
loving plant, and it is due to the potassic
content of the red soils that the quality of
the red-soil tubers, generally speaking, is
superior for cooking purposes to the potatoes
grown on soils of the grey type.
It is not generally known, however, that
potash plays an important part in strength-
ening the germ (sprout), and when potatoes
are grown repeatedly on the one farm,
having practically the same type of soil,
without periodic broadcast potash manuring,
the available potash is gradually depleted
and the crop suffers as a consequence, both
from the culinary and seed standpoints.
A few years ago I made extensive experi-
ments in the manuring of potatoes. At har-
vest the produce from the plots was sepa-
rately weighed up and trayed and placed
under timber to “green off.” The strength
of the sprouts of the tubers from the pot-
ash plots was outstanding, and “shooting”
took place 12 to 14 days earlier than in
the case of the unmanured tubers and a good
week ahead of the tubers from any of the
other manured plots. There was no waste
at planting through rejects from the potash-
manured trays, and the following season’s
crop and subsequent results have conclu-
sively proved that periodic heavy broadcast
potash manuring improves seed potatoes.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
When, and how often should orange- and
lemon-trees be pruned? Ours have a lot of
old, small branches on them. —3os.
If the trees are old and in poorly-drained
soil, probably grubbing out would be the
most profitable. If the old, small branches
are due to poverty or disease, such cause
must be remedied; a good thinning out of
branches and a shortening back would then
benefit the trees. Once the trees have again
beeu brought into a thriving condition practi-
cally no pruning is recommended for orange-
trees. The lemon-trees, however, require a
regular shortening of bearing laterals. Clip-
ping the fruit with a few inches of lateral is
recommended, in addition to the suppression
of vigorous upright limbs where such are not
required to fill in the framework. Well-
drained conditions with ability to apply water
where required and liberal supplies of
organic matter should minimise stagnation
and stunted growth.
(1) What wage per ivcck with keep should
a permanent farm-liand get under N.S. 11.
award? (2) Hours? (3) Overtime? (4)
Holidays and annual leave? —450.
(1) £2 15s. (2) Fifty-two hours. (3)
Time and a half in excess of 52 hours per
week and for Sundays and holidays. (.4)
New Year’s Day, Anniversary Day, Good
Friday, Faster Monday, Anzac pay, King s
Birthday, Eight-hour Day, Christmas Day,
Boxing Day and any day on which a State
or Federal election is held. These holidays
must be paid for at ordinary rates. Where
Eight-hour Day is not a local fixture, work-
men may be granted another day in lieu,
such as for local show or district picnic. The
latter is not to be paid for under other con-
ditions. After the completion of 12 months’
service workmen are entitled to one week's
leave on full pay.
Jersey cow, 7, is developing warts on her
teats. Remedy ? —439.
It is best, where possible, to remove warts
when the cow is dry. Restrain the animal
to prevent kicking. Wash the teats with a
5 p.c. solution of lysol. Clip the warts off
with a scissors—a few at a time. Stop pro-
fuse bleeding by applying a red-liot knitting-
needle. Swab the wounds daily with tincture
of iodine until healing is complete.
/ have an acre of saccalinc sown last week
in February. It is now about two feet high
and appears to have stopped growing. Would
it be dangerous to let the cows in? —302.
Unless the crop is all carrying seed heads
it is dangerous to feed it off, as sorghum
poisoning is likely to result. If there is no
likelihood of the crop reaching the above
state of development, it should be cut and
allowed to dry five or six days before being
carted out to stock.
(1) Literature on pig-breeding suitable for
Vic.? (2) How to prevent damage by frosts
to potato crops? (3) Mow to prevent rabbits
from attacking trunks of young trees ?—
540.
(1) “Pig Industry,” by 11. T. Archer,
Dept, of Agriculture, Melbourne. (2) Create
a smoke screen by burning rubbish to wind-
ward of the crop when frosts are severe.
(3) Make your fence rabbit-proof. Other
than that there is little you can do except
to wire-net each trunk.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“L.X.” : Before planting young citrus trees,
dip the stems in a weak solution of Harbas.
Tnis will kill off most parasites. Where
there are signs of scale, give a spray with
red oil.
"D.J.H.”: If you fail at lettuce-growing
try endive, a dual purpose vegetable, whicn
can be used for salad or boileu like spinach,
it’s a good line lor tropical parts, and can
be tieu up with twine and oieaciied quite
white. It will last well and the fowls and
grunters will scotf all the family don t want.
“Otuim”: Most owners of steam separa-
tors miss a lot of uses for the steam alter
the job is done. As well as steaming ait
the dairy utensils, it’s a good idea to nave
a length of piping outside with a small tap,
and let the steam into it lor warming the
skim milk for the poddies and heating the
grunters’ feed. Both do better with warm
iced, especially in chilly weather. Cans or
dry feed can be steamed its well. A clean jet
of steam into the kettle will soon have it
boiling, and the missus can pluck a fowl
quicker steamed than scalded with water.
"Cucliulain” : Young horses galloping about
in a paddock are apt to fail over an ordinary
wire fence, with possibly fatal results; but
they don’t fall over a fence topped with
baroed wire. Horse-breeders have found it
pays to keep their stud in paddocks w'ired like
this. The prads have a good look at the
wire, feel it with the velvet tip oi the nose,
and, realising it is uncomfortable stuff to
come in contact with, steer clear oi it in
their gambols.
“JL’Fou” : Now is the time to lay down a
firebreak for the grass run. Heavily top-
dress with super, or other approved mixture
fur about a cnain inside the boundary fence.
Stock will show a marked preference lor
this strip, and the constant cropping will
keep it green long after the untreated pas-
ture has run to seed. Even when dry this
will be kept grazed short, though the rest
of the paddock may be standing high with
long, dry grass.
“Silen”: Lime is a good servant but a
bad master. A neighbor of mine when he
bought his block thought the ground was too
tight—he aimed at market gardening and
he was advised to lime it well. He did —
too well. Now the soil is open enough, but
he wants far more moisture than any other
settler, and has to use more manures, etc.,
as both moisture and manure seem to go
through the soil in no time and won’t hold
long enough to produce a medium crop.
Before the liming, though the soil condition
was tight, it. did grow things fairly well.
“Ilallmint” : A good doer for most climates
is the loganberry vine. It is a prolific
bearer, and can be eaten raw, cooked or
made into jams and jellies. It is one of
the heaviest of bearers in the berry line,
and only wants an old fence or trellis to
trail on. The fruit is a good seller, especi-
ally in small lots in strawberry punnets.
Unlike one of its forebears —the blackberry
.—all the bad habits have been eliminated,
and it should find a place in every home-
stead garden.
“Boronia”: Old tyre tubes can be turned
into a most efficient belt-dressing without
the expenditure of a penny. Suspend the
tubes over a bucket of water and set alight
to them. As the burning rubber falls into
the water it will be extinguished. Collect
this, and the next time your belts are slip-
ping rub some of it on the side that faces
the pulley. The use of this material elimi-
nates all slip and lengthens the life of the
belt.


CHRYSLER"
New Style
is based on authentic canons
of classic beauty
X
'• W\
'- VV
1
gßjin f
i
m
Chrysler r 75" Royal Sedan
m
The most modem thing in motor car design
Chrysler’s matching of slender-profile radiator with
cowl bar moulding—has its artistic origin in th«
repetition of motif in the historic friese of the
ancient Parthenon.
Tlfi
Note how the dynamic symmetry of Chrysler
fender contours and wheels express the very essence
of life and motion just as does their counterpart in
the “wave border” of the classic masterpieces of
architecture and design.
FI
mm
The Chrysler front elevation indicates the influence
of the Egyptian lotus leaf pattern. Modified to its
modern application, it is perfectly proportioned,
and applied with consummate artistry in
blending beauty and utility.
Artists know this as a “rising, diminishing series.”
The level road, the slightly arched bumper, the
shorter arched tie-rod above, and finally the shorter
and more deeply arched radiator contour, form a
aeries in perfect harmony.
CHRYSLER engineering has achieved some-
thing never done before in motor car
design. It has searched out authentic forms of
classic beauty which have come down through
all the ages unsurpassed and unchallenged
and has translated them into modern terms of
motor car beauty and motor car utility.
Chrysler—in its newest products —has found
that there are so many glorious precedents and
inspirations in art, architecture and design,
that the search for authentic and harmonious
symmetry can actually be reduced to a
scientific system in which results are certain..,„
CHRYSLER “65” - CHRYSLER “75”
PRODUCTS OF CHRYSLER MOTORS
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales Larke, Neave & Carter, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Ward Motors, Limited, Brisbane
West Australia . Wm. Attwood Motors, Ltd., Perth
South Australia O. T. Rodda Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania Metro Motors Pty., Ltd., Hobart
New Zealand Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea W. R. Carpenter & Co., Ltd., Rabaul


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers
Compensation, Motor Car, etc
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
21.
EARN ALL YOU CAN—
SAVE ALL YOU CAN—GIVE ALL YOU CAN
Such was the good advice of John Wesley. You are, of course, entitled
to earn all you can, and no doubt are bending all your energies in that
direction.
Nevertheless, what you save will, in the long run, probably count for
more than what you earn.
Use the easy saving plan'. Open a Commonwealth Savings Account,
and be faithful to it, for the sake of your future needs and that you
may be able to give when it is your duty to give.
Cbimonwcaltl) Savmos Sank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
EXTRA HIGH GRADE
SMOKING TOBAGGO
its
uolit
Unequalled
19 per 2oz Tin
SMOKE-OH!
Pilot Brain, who located Moir and Owen,
has been awarded a D.S.C. for his brain-
wave.
* *
Mrs. Tom Walsh, who is investigating
working conditions of barmaids, has de-
clined to serve behind bars. “Jock” Garden,
who is out on bail, says this amounts to
plagiarism.
* •¥
In his book “The Splendid Adventure,”
just published in London. W. M. Hughes has
put his head in a brag.
A Wrench had to pay a fine of £5 at Bur-
Avood (N.S.W.) for riding a noisy motor-
cycle. But surely one neglectful Wrench
isn’t responsible for all the racketty bolts
we have to listen to!
¥ *
The Vic. R.A.C. has initiated a Road Cour-
tesy League. It is understood that a Homi-
cides’ Etiquette Book will shortly be also
published by the club.
SOME PRIVATE OPINIONS.
Another of the World’s Greatest moA’ie pal-
aces had been opened with a roar of mighty
Wurlitzers, Colonial and Permanent Orches-
tras, and political and other oratory; leading
statesmen and publicity experts had spoken
of the “Amazing Grandeur of this Mighty
Monument to Modern
Idealism.” Now the
uproar was over; the
champagne was fin-
ished. So our Special
Representative pr o-
ceeded to acquire some
private opinions on
the subject.
The Premier ( who
performed the open-
ing ceremony ) : “If
Mcßlare’s got cash to
spend on this. I’ll take
care he parts up a
darn’ sight bigger wad
to the party funds
next time.”
A Timber-striker:
“My mouth watered
as I saw the windows.
What a place to heave
bricks into!”
A Sydney Under-
grad.: “What took my
eye, old bean, was the
trajectory from the
gallery to the stage.
It was simply made
for cultured tomato-
throwers.”
Boston Slambert,
A.It.A.: “If they want
a horse for the Moor-
ish Vestibule they
know where to look.”
Rev.Wowse: “Teem-
ing with dark corners.
A sink of corrup-
tion !”
Florrie Flap: “One might as well hold
hands under a searchlight. Never you take
me there, Wilfrid.”
A. C.
Mention to the flapper wife that her hus-
band is short of socks and she knits her
brow.
HOW-IT REALLY HAPPENED.
Ruth felt that her widow’s weeds became
her. Y'et Boaz. who attended in person to
her application for a job in his big emporium,
was cold. However, he thawed on learning
chat she was a distant relative.
She did well behind the counter, and Boaz,
a theoretical moralist, was particularly
pleased to note the decisive way in which
she snubbed the young men of the establish-
ment who tried to get fresh. Further, she
always had a smile for him.
lie paused near her counter one day.
“How about a spot o’ lunch?” he inquired
seductively.
“Ooh! You are so-oo ka-eend!”. she
breathed shyly.
“Good work,” said Naomi that night.
HE KNEW DAD.
“You’d better wait till dad’s in a good temper before
you ask him, Dave.”
“Cripes, we can’t wait that long! Let's elope.”
“Keep the demure stuff going an’ you’ll get
him. It’s a cinch at his age.”
A dinner-dance at the Horrific Cafe fol-
lowed. The next thing Boaz knew he had
become a jazz-hound. Ere long the shop-
hands were joking coarsely about the boss’s
infatuation and making infamous sugges-
tions about Ruth’s moral character.
Naomi was overjoyed to hear that the
present-giving stage had been reached.
“Sit still, my daughter, until thou knowest
how the matter will fall,” she said. “In
other words, stay at home from work, and
when he rings up tell him you are being
talked about and must keep away from him,
even if it breaks your heart.”
Even so did it come to pass. Boaz heard
tears of farewell through the ’phone; and
that afternoon he arrived in the Rolls with
a ring and the marriage license.
After which Ruth plucked his ears and
trod on his corns and gleaned in his fields
without stint or mercy.
H. M.
“A slogan is a useful weapon in business,”
says a Sydney magnate. Not a doubt of it.
Even the dullest woman knows the value of
a good cry.
# *
“If people danced more they would fight
less,” says a member of the Pavlova com-
pany. And thus achieve the peace of the
whirled !
* #
Amongst those present were Keith Smith,
Captain Ivingsford Smith, Lieutenants Ulm,
Owen and Moir —all the birds of the air,
in short.
* *
He never stops to think, / know,
He's always talking shop;
I'd like him far. far better, though,
If he'd but think to stop!
R.
“One of the prizes was a case of whisky won by
Mr. .iolin Weir.”
“Weir is now the merry party,” as the
old song says.
FLATS AND SHARPS.
“I wish to state that I have no knowledge of
immorality among the (lat-dwellers of North Sydney,
and such a statement is ridiculous.” —Mayor oj
North Sydney.
"What? Immorality among our flats!”
North Sydney's Mayor ejaculated, “Rats!
Dwellers therein, when they hare done with
hats,
Haloes will have—and harps.
Go search upon the harbor’s other side
For anything that’s by the word implied,
Nor criticise our flats until you’ve tried
The Randwick sharps.”
* *
“Canberra politicians Avant Federal
police.” What, with eggs at 3s. 4d. a dozen!
¥ *
The birthday honors list slioavs the absur-
dity of the idea that a profit is Avithout
honor in its own country.
* *
“Down Quilts,” says an advt., hut avo
absolutely refuse to do it this Avcather.
•y -v-
-“We Avere able to raise a loan of £90,000
recently Avithout increasing our general rate of
£4 in the £.” —Mayor of Woollalira, in Sydney Sun.
At this rate both the “oo” and the “ah”
in Woollalira seem justifiable.
* *
Astronomers arc well repaid —
Of cheer they drink the cup.
And can you wonder when their trade
Is always looking up?
Ic.
THE PURLOINED POEMS.
Dear Mr. Editor, —There is no further
reason for withholding the following informa-
tion from the public. The matter has
passed out of my hands, and you are now
at liberty to print the painful news in full.
For some fourteen (14) Aveeks, up to and
until the end of last month, I despatched
weekly, per registerd post, addressed in full
to your good self, packages of manuscripts
each containing an average of ten (10) of
my poems. Not one appeared!
Clearly it Avas impossible to attribute this
BETTER AND BETTER.
“I believe your hubby’s frightfully clever—knows everything.”
“Oh. goodness, no! He doesn’t even suspect anything!”
wholly to the inefficiency of the Post Office.
Yet the fact remains that the poems were
rot delivered, otherwise such an unrivalled
literary medium as yours would undoubtedly
have long since joyously printed, for the
upliftment of its huge circle of discriminating
readers, at least three-fifths of them, hold-
ing the other two-fifths over, possibly, for
your Grand Christmas Issue.
There could be but one explanation, a
wave of poem-stealing. A Royal Commission
has been appointed to investigate the scandal,
and the sittings will begin as soon as a
Supreme Court Judge is available. My
solicitors have retained Henry Slangwliang,
K.C., and two rising juniors; the Post
Office, Master Carriers’ Association. Rail-
way Department and other interests have
briefed counsel, and your paper will, of
course, wish to be adequately represented.
I am assured by the Minister that this
fresh manifestation of corruption will be
probed to the bottom, if Australia has to
be toured luxuriously from end to end in
the process.
And now, sir, for a pleasant surprise. 1
have a complete set of copies of these poems,
which I intend to deliver to you personally
upon my next visit to your fair city, which
I trust will be at no distant date. You
may, therefore, prepare your readers for the
treat that is in store for them. —Believe me,
sir, your valued contributor,
Percy Bysshe-Gladesvili.e.
* *
THE FAMILY RESEMBLANCE.
How I admired delightful Pearl;
Her eyes of blue, her hair u-curl!
But now my head has ceased to whirl.
For I have seen the mother o’ Pearl.
RIC.
OVERDOING IT.
The flapper said, “Oh, George, I’ll be
The very soul of constancy.”
Ho they were married and their bliss
Grew more intense with every kiss;
Till George found out one day that he
With dozens shared her constancy.
PEJAR.
BE CAREFUL, PLEASE!
J. A. B. HARRISSON.
It isn’t what you wear, it’s where you wear
it.
And flappers’ frocks are funny nowadays.
There’s so little that it’s dangerous to tear
it ;
And he who does has got to mend ■ his
ways.
I saw a maiden’s skirt get torn while
dancing ;
I found a pin and offered to repair it,
But I got a frightful shock —
She teas so close to the frock.
Oh, it isn’t what you wear, it’s where you
wear it!
CAME THE DAWN.
Henry Perks was dead. He had been dead
for thousands of years; in fact it was
Judgment Morn. An aeon or so passed, and
then the Recording Angel led him to the
seat. Below stretched a vast ocean of faces,
and all were strained towards him. All those
millions of ears were listening expectantly;
and all, ilenry knew by some strange, instinct,
could hear everything that was being sam.
He shuddered, wondering wliat the verdict
would be. . , , •
In the very front rank he recognised nn
wife and his boss —his erstwhile wile and
boss. That is—well, do wives and bosses
carry their status into Paradise ! tlei } 1 ] y
hoped not. If so, he decided to apply hunib y
for a transfer to Hell. But hush. the
Great Judge was speaking.
“Who is next?” His voice was wonder-
fully musical, and yet it possessed the
rumbling depth of distant thunder.
The Recording Angel smothered n yawn.
“I hardly think we need waste time over
this one,” he began. . , r>T- aa *
“Silence!” boomed the voice of the Hi«at
Judge. His eye had fallen on
Henry. Such an irradiance
of gladness and amaze illumi-
nated the eye that the mil-
lions standing around were
dazzled.
“Henry!” he gasiied, spring-
ing from his throne and rush-
ing forward. "Henry Perks,
at last. I thought you were
never coming! I’ve been
waiting for hundreds of cen-
turies for your name to be
called.”
So saying he shook Henry
warmly by the hand and led
him to the edge of the plat-
form.
“Citizens of the Universe,”
lie boomed to the uttermost
vaults of space, “I call upon
you to observe this man. A
perfect man. A quiet, retiring
soul. One who has in him
the ability to do great things;
yet has ever hidden his light
under a bushel, preferring
oblivion to the vulgar publi-
city which his world had to
offer. A rare, sensitive soul
of unplumbed depths, too good
(ah! how much too good) for
his absurd wife, his ridiculous
and tyrannical boss. Here we have one who
has, I venture to say, more of My qualities
than any other in this Universe.”
A sycophantic buzz of applause began, led
by Henry’s ex-wife and boss.
“Come, Henry,” cried the Great Judge.
“I ■will personally escort you into Heaven.”
“We’ll do the rest to-morrow,” He said,
turning to the Recording Angel. “Eight
o’clock start. Roil out some clouds for them
to sleep on.”
But now the applause turned to angry
mutterings.
“They are jealous, Henry,” said the Judge.
He chuckled and dug Henry playfully in
the ribs. Then he did so again, and again, and
again, growing more violent each time. Henry
was on the point of telling Him to cut it out,
PERHAPS YOU’VE NOTICED IT
YOURSELF.
“What did you mean, Reggie, by telling
those people that you earned a lot oj
money before you married me?"
“Well, it seemed a lot then.”
Judge or noi Judge, when he woke up. The
voice of his 16-stone wife smote upon his
consciousness. Again and again she punched
him in the ribs.
“Get up,” she insisted. “Get up and get
breakfast or you’ll be late at the office —
and you won’t get another chance from the
boss this time.’’
W.R.


BRITISH
*MOf
M'Taih
£r
m
«sss
£,
No, S 9 Contains the essentials for a
perfect “Valet” shave—the razor,
strop and three blades in leather-
ette-covered case
3/-
Managing Agents for Australia?—
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney*
New Zealand Agents:
VAN STAVEREN BROS., Ltd., Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch.
“Slips along smoothly, doesn’t she?”
“Oh, you mean the car.... 1 was looking
at the poster ”
“That slips along smoothly, too!”
“You use a Valet yourself?’*
“Never used any other since I started
shaving,”
“Why so faithful?”
“Because it never lets me down. You
see, the blades are —”
“Ah. the blade’s the thing!”
“ —are stropped to perfection automati-
cally by a device in the razor itself.”
“Sounds good. But I’ve no time in the
mornings.”
“Don’t need it! Ten seconds on the strop
without taking anything to pieces gives
you a blade as good as new.”
“Sounds ideal now! Where can I—?”
“Any dealer’s. 3/-, 10/-or 22/6 for the
entire set, all with the same principle.”
{
/
JTTobe^
Aifsute of the)
ft. 'original, look
for the name,
WEED J
on every yl
hooOf /
Heavy Duty Vehicles
find WEED TYRE CHAINS almost an abso-
lute necessity. Trucks, Buses, Motor-Lorrys,
etc., plowing their way through deep soft
mud, treacherous sand or clay need the safe
positive traction that Weed Chains afford.
Weed Tyre Chains get right down to hard
surface—they grip and hold.
Weed Tyre Chains are made especially
rugged to withstand the severe requirements
of heavy vehicles of all types. They are
furnished for all tyres, whether pneumatic
or solid—single or dual.
Order from your dealer. Standard of
Quality for over a quarter of a century .
WEED TYRE CHAINS
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY, Inc.
New York, N.Y..U.S. A.
1500
“IXL” Carbide
When forwarding your next order for Carbide
insist on being supplied with
It is manufactured in Australia
and is guaranteed by the manufacturers to be
at least equal to the British Acetylene
Association standard quality.
When using “IXL” Brand you are helping an
all-Australian industry to flourish.
If unable to obtain from your supplier
write direct to the undersigned:
H. Jones & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
HOBART, TASMANIA, Sole Distributing Agents
For
The Australian Commonwealth Carbide Co., Ltd.,
Electrona, Tasmania.
DISTRIBUTORS FOR N.S.W.:
ALLEN-LIVERSIDGE, LTD., Hutchison Street, Annandale.
BRANDTS, LTD., 236 Pitt Street, Sydney.
GARDNER-WAERN & CO. PTY., LTD., 225 Clarence Street, Sydney.
NOYES BROS, LTD., Clarence Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN"
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.


Xfi-
\\
o"
WH ITWOD r/f
?
r*
*' .j* ..-"• *
; ■* *
: *
M:>" A
MP
\, \
§r
ONE OF FIFTY LOCOMOTIVE*
SUPPLIED TO THE C.W.R.
SIR W. G. ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH & CO., LTD.
Sales Organisation: EINNAIED HOUSE, PALL MALL EAST, LONDON, S.W.I. Works and Shipyards: NEWCASTLE-UPON-TYNE
AGENTS: Messrs. GILBERT-LODGE & CO., Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide.
M.C.79°
27
SKIN AND SCALP
•Ut
ENT
ZHcuk
World Wide Favorites
For The Skin And Scalp
Regular use of Cuticura Soap, as-
sisted by touches of Cuticura Ointment
when required, keeps the complexion
fresh and free from eruptions and the
hair live and glossy. Cuticura Prepa-
rations are unexcelled in purity and
are regarded by millions as unrivalled
in the promotion of skin and hair
health.
Soap Is., Talcum 15.3 d.. Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.’'
JgJSSgr* Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
CAPTAIN CRAB
SELECTED
SPECIALLY
VISITORS
hostess
PLEASES
AND
ALIKE
GROCERS
AT
ALL
BOOK
RECIPE
FREE
CAUSTIC SODA
(ELECTROLYTIC >
LIQUID— 32 per cent. N»2O.
POWDERED-98 per cent. NaOH.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
CARBON TETRA CHLORIDE.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
CONCENTRATED SOLDER-
ING AND TINNING FLUXES.
LIQUID CHLORINE
100 per cent, pure Anhydrous
In 100, 150 and 20001 b. Containers.
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILLE, VICTORIA.
*4*
I
i
m
AT HOME—where more than hall
the accidents happen—be sure to keep
Zam-Buk always handy. There is far
more danger than you think in the cuts,
knocks, burns, scratches, and other
accidents that happen during cleaning
and cooking. The danger comes from
deadly germs which swarm into the
tiniest break in the skin and set up
festering and blood-poison.
A dressing of Zam-Buk on any sore
place promotes quick clean healing. It
is soothing and purifying; it kills all bad
germs which would set up poisoning and
it safeguards the damaged tissues until
the growth of new skin is complete.
The secret of Zam-Buk’s great success
is due to its refinement, unique herbal
character and entire freedom from the
animal fats and crude mineral drugs
found in ordinary ointments.
Zam-Buk has a wide range of usefulness for
such troubles as eczema, ulcers, ringworm,
Cold-sores, bad legs, poisoned wounds, abscesses,
scalp disease, piles and for chilblains, chapped
hands, sprains, and all superficial injuries.
iamßuk
1/6 box & 3/6 family size. All chemists.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
The Next Ten Years
In British Social and Economic
Policy. By G. D. H. COLE,
author of ‘‘Self-Government in
Industry,” "The World of
Labor,” etc. 1 ss. net.
A re-valuation and re-statement of Labor
and Socialist Policy.
The Problem of Industrial
Relations
And Other Lectures. By HENRY
CLAY, M.A., author of “Eco-
nomics: an Introduction for the
General Reader.” 12s. net.
Puffin, Puma & Co.
By F. GWYNNE EVANS. Illus-
trated by GEORGE MORROW.
7s. 6d. net.
-**A book of children’s verse, witty, whim-
sical and entertaining; with most amusing
illustrations.
Thoughts from Rabindranath
Tagore
With 4 portraits. 7s. 6d. net.
This work contains many passages from
material hitherto unpublished in England.
Women Are Like That
By E. M. DELAFIELD, author of
“What is Love?” etc.
[Empire Library.
Times: “A collection that will give satis-
faction in the best sense to Miss Delafield’s
admirers.... Extremely entertaining.”
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON. W.C.2.
I s* *1
7


DYNAMIC LOUD SPEAKERS
STARTLING NEWS FOR RADIO OWNERS
and those about to buy.
A REVELATION awaits you! You can’t
imagine how inadequate old types of speakers
are until you hear the new Magnavox Dynamic
Speaker. It is acclaimed by the technical press,
musical critics and radio “fans” as “nearest-to-
perfection.”
UNITS ONLY FROM
£71151-
CABINET MODELS FROM
£lO
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL RADIO DEALERS
WHOLESALE & RETAIL DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL STATES.
• v J
mSMSSsM
& .;
Cruising to
JAVA and
SUMATRA
First-class round fare to Belawan
Deli (Sumatra), calling at Java ports,
Singapore and Penang: From Brisbane
and Sydney, £ 99; from Melbourne,
£lO5.
The K.P.M. invites you to wonder and wander in Java and
Sumatra, islands of exotic attractions.
Glorious days at sea, the comforts and conveniences of the
great Liners Nieuw Holland and Nieuw Zeeland will be a
delightful holiday for you.
The steamer is your hotel for the round voyage.
Full particulars from
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY
(K.P.M. Line),
255 George Street, Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., 11l William Street, Melbourne; Dalgety & Co., Brisbane;
Elder, Smith & Co., Adelaide and Perth.
DOMINION FORESTS LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 26 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH.
NOMINAL CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
SPECIAL AFFORESTATION-ASSURANCE BOND ISSUE.
OUR BOND, BOUGHT FOR £3O on very easy terms, provides:
ONE FREEHOLD ACRE planted with 650 Pinus insignis trees, planted
in N.Z., and a
FREE INSURANCE POLICY FOR £250 FOR 10 YEARS.
NO BETTER PROPOSITION OFFERED.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR PROSPECTUS. COVER THAT DEATH RISK.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes fancy, write
to the Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
Pen and Picture
Shadow Shows
“Dog Eaw”
(F. 8.0.) is a
nature -study
film in which an
incredibly saga-
cious dog does
utterly uncanine
thi n g s in a
thoroughly con-
vincing manner and in strict accordance with
the needs of an amusing blood-and-thund”er
story. The animal even makes love to an-
other when the heroine plays sentimental
music on a piano. “Dog Eaw” is a satis-
fying bit of fun with a murder, a lynching
and some interesting glimpses of the timber-
logging industry thrown in for good measure.
“Sioux Blood” (M.-G.-M.) is labelled an
“Australian and New Zealand special.”
Translated from the Alpine language of
Hollywood to the ordinary levels of speech,
that means that a part in it is taken by
Marion Douglas, a Sydney girl. She is a
moon-eyed heroine who is nabbed by a bunch
MARION DOUGLAS.
of Indians, to-
gether with
hero Tim
McCoy. (The
pair did much
the same sort
of thing in an-
other- “Austra-
lian” special
—the fantas-
tic “B us h-
range r.”)
McCoy, brought
up to the age
of 10 or so on
a lonely selec-
tion, sees his
father and
mother killed
by Indians
and his little
brother kid-
napped. This
brother is duly
brought up by
the Indian
chief and train-
ed to detest
the paleface; also to change color and to
speak the poetic line of English that tradi-
tion has thrust into the month of the van-
ished race. McCoy, for his part, grows up
with a strong dislike for the red man, and
has slain many of them before lie and Miss
Douglas are captured by McCoy’s now red-
skin brother. Complication arises through
the love that suddenly kindles in the brother’s
heart for Miss Douglas, and anyone who
feels interested in who will eventually get
the girl has only to remain seated for an-
other four or five reels. Plenty of horse and
hurry, murder and melodrama.
Those who like an old-fashioned fruity
romance are recommended to gaze on “Honor
Above All” (P.D.C.), and to take three
hankies with them. The setting is a pic-
turesque Austrian castle, lake and tavern.
The young Baron loves Beatrice Joy, the
daughter of the widow who keeps the pub.
Resisting his uncle’s endeavors to marry him
to the daughter of a wealthy brewer who
holds a mortgage on the castle, the Baron
promises to wed his village maiden. But
he is wafted off to the war, and in his
absence a twisted hunchback, who loves
Beatrice, intercepts letters. The wicked
uncle goes one better and forges ’em. So
the hero returns to find Miss Joy wedded to
the hunchback—and there you are. Though
the acting slavishly follows the most arti-
ficial of Hollywooden traditions, and the hero
has a most irritating smirk, 90 gallons of
tears will be shed in this fair Continent ere
the celluloid of this film goes out of com-
mission. _ What the title means, since it was
the family motto of both wicked uncle and
faithful nephew, is left to the imagination.
“The Canary Murder Case” (Paramount),
the movie with which . Sydney Haymarket
opened its career as a talkie-house the other
day, is a plausible mystery yarn. It has its
share of the inconsistencies which have yet to
be overcome in talkie-making—first pussyfoot
and then clodhopping entries and exits, dead
silence where one expects noise, and noises
that are unreal and bewildering. The story
concerns the efforts of Charles Spotswoode
to release his son Jimmy from the grip of
Margaret Odell (Bouise Brooks), otherwise
“The Canary,” a Broadway star and lurer
of baldheads. “The Canary,” who has no
intention of handing James over to his in-
tended, Alys Ba Fosse, broadcasts the fact
that Jimmy is to accompany her to the altar,
and orders three elderly admirers, who have
compromised themselves with her, to each
deliver a costly wedding gift under penalty
of exposure. The trio duly arrive at her
apartment separately and at about the same
time; also, Jimmy, his father and a divorced
hubby of the Canary enter and leave the
gilded cage during the evening. Next morn-
ing the Canary is found strangled, and sus-
picion rests on all who had been in the
vicinity. Enter Philip Yance (William
Powell), an immaculately-attired free-lance
sleuth, and a horde of police. Then follows
the exciting business of running the culprit
down, a game of poker and a number of
easily-discovered clues helping the sleuth on,
until a second murder complicates matters.
But Yance scores in the end. Whereas in
most mystery movies the audience cannot
keep up with the breathless march of events,
this talkie keeps everyone alive to the latest
move, for there is a continual sifting of
evidence and explanations impossible in sub-
titled movies. William Powell’s is a finished
performance.
Just for one passage “Assistant Wives”
(M.-G.-M.), a typical Charlie Chase comedy,
is worth its portion of the admission money.
It is all faked action —struggling young
couple, request to boss for more screw, boss
moved by fib that wife works in a quick-
lunchery, alleged wife brought in to meet
boss, asks boss home to tea, all go and
occupy another flat in building where the
struggling young couple really do live, fol-
lowed by quick-lunch girl’s brawny beau,
real wife and brawny beau break in on th
party about the same time, discord and dis
aster. It is the furniture wrecking indulged
in by the brawny beau and the boss that
provides the laughable patch, not in itseli
only, but in the undisturbed making-up with
his wife that Chase carries on seated upon
a sofa in the thick of the bombardment.
There are half a dozen good laughs in it.
The Palette
Clara Southern, whose show is at the
Austral Buildings, Melbourne, is a Victorian
Old Master, or its feminine equivalent. She
began painting with Folingsby, Longstaff
and others, and while they have been making
names for themselves she has been quietly
teaching, and, when she wasn’t teaching,
observing. Her exhibitions have been infre-
quent, but other artists have had yearly
shows with less justification. Miss Southern
appears to see nature emotionally, but re-
cords it with intuitive regard for actual
values. Sometimes her emotion is stronger
than her intuition, but on the whole few
exhibitions of late have been so placid and
pleasing. The lady does most of her paint-
ing round Warrandyte, which is shortly to
receive the blessings of a land boom and a
suburban railway; so if you want to know
what the place won’t look like in a few
years’ time, buy “A Quiet Glade,” “Sil-
houettes,” or “Nocturne.”
Frank P. Mahony, some of whose paint-
ings adorn the walls of the N.S.W. Art
Gallery, sleeps in an English grave. At the
instance of veteran Bulletin contributor
Hugh Stone,” the Australasian Society of
Patriots at Newcastle is moving to have
the artist’s dust brought back and re-interred
in his own Australia. “Stone” is to lecture
in the cause on Mahony’s art and Boake’s
verse at the society’s building, the Long-
worth Institute, Newcastle; every pound
taken at the door will be supplemented by
another from the Patriots’ secretary, J. j.
Moloney.
Zorn, Blampied, Mcßey, Walcot, Lumsden
and Brangwyn indicate the standard of the
Sydney Fine Art Gallery’s exhibition of the
work of leading overseas etchers. Walcot’s
“Baths of Caraealla” is a magnificent in-
terior of lavish arching architecture; high
and spacious, with fine detail of figures
below and window above. Zorn is repre-
sented by two wholly-typical pieces—a solid
peasant nude and a nude man and woman of
lighter type. Lumsden’s best is the intriguing
Cliff and Cactus,” which goes to prove that
a true artist can make almost a freakish
view natural and convincing. In the fore-
ground, three-quarters of the way up the
picture, climbs the sheer, weather-scored
cliff, with a stray cactus clinging to a ledge
here and there. At the top a line of small j
houses with more cactus about the cliff-edge
and a narrow strip of sky above. A dreary
place to live in, but a delightful thing to
live with. Brangwyn’s warm and living
group of humans and a house, Mcßey's
group of Jews, Eyre Walker’s frozen aqua-
tint landscapes and Blampied’s glowing
humor in animal and human pieces stand
out among other pleasant memories.
Geoffrey Jacoby, who lost his life when
the yaclit Erica, of which he was part-
owner, was wrecked in Catherine Hill Bay
(N.S.W.), was known in four States as an
able newspaper man. Son of the late M H
Jacoby, Speaker of the Westralian Leg.
Assembly in 1904-05, he started his jour-
nalistic career on- the Perth Sunday Times
and moved on to the West Australian :
he was not out of his teens when a report
of his pricked a preposterous oil bubble in
Hie southern part of the State. Later he
did capital work for newspapers in Mel-
bourne. Sydney and Brisbane. He wrote
racy short stories as well; one appeared in
the last Christmas Bulletin.
“E.P.” : Has Australia now, or has it ever
had any newspaper titles to compare with
this authentic U.S.A. bunch : The Kansas
Prairie Dog, the Brick, the Eye, the Broad
Axe, the Ryansville Boomer. Hill City
Lively Times. Conductor Punch. Ensign
Razzoop, Border Ruffian, the Jayhawker
and Palladium, Daily Infant Wonder
Astonisiier and Paralyser, Inkslinger’s
Advertiser. Grtsby City Scorchfr Sun
day Growler. Springfield Soap Box and
the Thomas County Cat?
The Inky Way
THE PRESSMAN’S PLEA.
I have written fires and murder, death and
comic picture shows,
Anything to please the public, and they swal-
lowed it, God knows!
I have tried to earn my money; tried the
reader’s taste to please
With the “human interest” story in the type-
tired journalese.
But my copy’s getting poorer, and my eyes
can’t stand the strain,
There are nightmare words and pictures
running madly through my brain ;
Here’s the last edition going—thank the
Lord I’ll raise a grin
When I lay me down my pencil with my
final copy in.
I can hear the boys come calling : “Are yon
ready, Mister Roo?
The sub. has seen your copy, and he wants
a word with you.”
I can see Saint Peter scowling with a pencil
in his fist,
I expect he’ll ask me questions of the stories
that I missed!
Yes, I’ll know I’m on the carpet when I get
the final call,
And my lies won’t help me either with the
hardest sub. of all.
His pencil will be cutting; he is up to all
I know.
But I hope he gives my copy just a decent
sort of go!
n.s.w.
JACKY ROO.


COSTLY CAR BEAUTY...
COSTLY CAR ENGINEERING
in the low-priced. WHIPPET
W',. U. Y
>''/£•. Ri AN i>
[/ Hi:
vr®
r«T/
V
£
«r
Whippet Four Touring
LOWER COST OF OPERATION
JVe» " Finger-Tip Con •
trol ” a button at
centre of steering
wheel operates starter,
lights and horn .
%
THE new Superior Whippet makes' the beauty and
style of costly cars available at a low price.
Graceful lines, rich colours, longer bodies, higher
radiator and sweeping one-piece full crown mudguards
all contribute to Whippet’s trim, smart appearance.
In engineering, the new Superior Whippet can be
compared only to cars of much greater cost. Important
advantages include a higher compression engine, silent
timing chain, full force-feed lubrication. Nelson type
aluminium alloy invar-strut pistons, big four-wheel
brakes.
Dependable performance and low consumption of oil
and petrol make the new Superior Whippet a decidedly
economical car to operate. See the Whippet at your
nearest Willys-Overland dealer
Tie new supetCo^
WHIPPET FOUR
MESSRS. OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LTD.
62-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
MESSRS. OVERLAND VICTORIA PTY., LTD.,
117-121 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
MESSRS. OVERLAND SYDNEY, LTD.,
173-175 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
MESSRS. E. G. EAGER & SON, LTD.,
Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane.
MESSRS. ADAMS MOTORS, LIMITED,
442 Murray Street, Perth.
MESSRS. H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.
53-63 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
NEW SUPERIOR WHIPPET FOURS AND SIXES


GOLF vSETiS
Imported from the Heather Co., Scotland.
EVERY STICK GUARANTEED.
H
Special Matched
Sets,
Comprising—
BRASSIE,
MID-IRON,
MASHIE
PUTTER,
TAN BAG,
2 BALLS.
COMPLETE SET,
57/6
STAINLESS SET,
69/6
We pay carriage.
N.S.W. Sports Store, Ltd.,
26 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
ALAN KIPPAX, Director.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST,
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY'S “SPECIAL” Whisky
MELLOWED BY AGE ALONE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney. T 2
W. W. GREENER
GUN
Value £lOO
will be shot for at the
MELBOURNE
GUN CLUB
Commonwealth
Championship Meeting in
July.
FOR PARTICULARS APPLY TO
F. TUBB,
Leeds Street, Canterbury, Vic.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
After its dismal experience this season
the A.J.C. committee will probably recognise
that giving fat prizes for races over the
jumps in Sydney is a futile business. The
club has been very generous and long-endur-
ing, but it is plain that, with very few
exceptions, owners won’t patronise these
events and that the public doesn't care for
them. For the First Steeplechase at Rand-
wick there were four starters (one was
killed) and for the Second Hurdle Race
five; yet each race was worth £6OO. The
£2OOO Steeplechase brought out a field of
seven. And for racing purposes the whole
seven would be dear at £lOOO.
And the form of these dejected steeds is
exasperatingly in-and-out. W. 8., winner of
the First Hurdle Race, fell in the second
event, and Anorient, a hot favorite, came
in a bad last. Pirate King (10 to 1), who
had jumped poorly on the Monday, won from
the ancient Piratic. Prince Arim, who had
fenced and galloped indifferently at Warwick
Farm, won both Randwick steeples, donkey-
licking horses that had donkey-licked Mm
at the Farm. Going round the second time
on Saturday, Burraform (5 to 1) set up a
big lead, but tired under his weight, and was
cut down by Prince Arim (5 to 1) and Seafit,
the latter depriving him of second place in
the last stride. Stony, a former Randwick
idol, lost his rider, but continued over the
jumps, as he had done in the First Hurdle
Race. In his great days the poor, faithful
old beggar raced in the colors of very
\A;ealthy men, but there is precious little sen-
timent in the game nowadays, so the lion-
hearted animal that so nearly won the Syd-
ney Cup five years ago—and he was getting
up in years then —tvill probably have to
continue climbing over jumps until he breaks
his neck.
Cook, the latest star among the jockeys,
had another remarkable day. He had four
mounts for three wins, getting home on Don
Moon (12 to 1) in the Flying Handicap,
Toper (8 to 1) in a division of the Nur-
sery Handicap, and Inducement (5 to 4) in
the Winter Stakes. Curiously enough, he
has no great following among the tote pun-
ters, but that will come. Some of the critics
thought Inducement’s performance rather
slovenly for a steed reckoned to nave Metro-
politan prospects; but it was his hist essay
over the distance —a mile and five furlongs—
and Wedding Eve, who ran second, is a good
mare on her day. He came home very gamely
when Cook called on him, and 2mm. 4i£sec.
is not bad time.
Poitrel sired a good one in Poitiers, who,
going out favorite at threes, led irom start
to finish of the Exeter Handicap, run over
a mile at welter weignts. Second to Poi-
tiers was Fuji San (4 to 1), wiih whom his
bookmaker-owner is having very bad luck
this season.
•** * *
For Rosehill on Saturday:—
Flying Welter : Garrula ; next, Boss Poppy.
Three-year-old Handicap : Greencorn ; next,
Kinbally.
June Handicap: Blather; next, Prince
Colugo.
Granville Stakes : Olympus ; next, Sir Leu-
cops.
* * * *
Nine G. N. Hurdle aspirants competed over
the battens at Moonee Valley on Satur-
day. Lanilda, despite poor form at Fleming-
ton, headed the quotes, half a point shorter
than Cobranveil, with Adsum next choice.
In a re-shuffle of jockeys Cairns supplanted
Inkson on Adsum, while Inkson displaced
Mclnncs as pilot of Lanilda; the services of
Mclnnes were obtained for Tom Bourke.
The Bendigo-trained Broadblade, backed
from 10 to 1 to fives, won in runaway
fashion. Cairns was forced into leading the
pursuit; but Broadblade had opened up too
big a gap, and wasn’t obliging enough to
puncture. The form will not clear up the
National Hurdle problem, except that Lan-
ilda can be wiped off the chart unless a
miracle happens. Broadblade does not im-
press as a three-miler. Cobranveil came
home strongly, but would have needed wings
to win from where he gathered speed.
GOOD DOG!
SEEDY SAM : “Drop it, Ginger, an’ then one o’ them blokes’ll ’it it away fer yer.”
Nyangay had not sighted fences in public
since March 16 until he weighed out for
Brunswick Steeple at Moonee Valley. Owner
J. F. Ryan would have taken him to Rand-
wick but for an attack of pleurisy, which
threatened to develop into pneumonia. “If
I can’t go, my horse won’t,” said Mr.
Ryan. Nyangay is essentially a big-timber
topper. Valley country did not suit the
Varco gelding; yet he finished a good second.
Mosstrooper (5 to 1) emulated the Broad-
blade achievement by registering a one-act
victory; Inkson, on Nyangay, made every
reasonable effort to overtake Mosstrooper,
but the latter’s jockey, Murrell, had thrown
caution to the winds, and attacked the
obstacles in a “catch me who can” spirit.
Mosstrooper fell at his only essay over Flem-
ington (June 1), and the National distance
and other conditions may not suit him;
still, you never can tell. Laurelmond, the
Onkaparinga hero, was not overburdened
with financial support; he got round safely,
finishing sixth. The presence of Longlands
in the field perplexed those who regard the
G. N. Hurdle as his special mission. As
the Perstiore gelding was backed and badly-
beaten, they are still guessing as to stable
intentions.
V.R.C. chairman Mackinnon, though not
regaining health so rapidly as his numerous
friends desire, was able to visit the Valley
in the hope of seeing Radioscope score in
the Warroona Welter. The best price ob-
tained was 3 to 1, and the Comedy King
gelding firmed to 9to 4. “Tich” Wilson had
to ride Radioscope hard to hit the front
three furlongs from home. He petered out,
and Potentate (10 to 1), who has inherited
the grey color of Sarchedon, reached the
judge an eyebrow in advance of Kaoota,
with Attraction only a head farther off.
Radioscope led home the also-rans.
Another exciting finish was that in the
Morang Handicap. Hawick (5 to 1), who,
like the steeplechase winner, Mosstrooper, is
by Kenilworth, drew the extreme outside
berth. He made a lightning rush to the front,
and entered the straight with a clear lead.
Noogee and Love Story then joined issue, and
the undersized Noogee failed by a half-neck
to cut down Hawick. Previous race had been
won brilliantly by Rudyard (3 to 1), whose
trainer, E. J. O’Dwyer, evidently regarded
Love Story as an equally good thing for
Hawick’s race; the imported mare shortened
from 6 to 1 to 5 to 2.
•»••••
A plunge on Maggie Carilla (5 to 2) in
the Nonga Handicap ended in disaster. The
Magpie mare was interfered with twice, and
finished last. Nagrada (4 to 1) won for S.
W. Biggins; but, had their luck been equal,
Caramelo (5 to 1) might have reversed
positions.
For Williamstown on Saturday:—
Port Phillip Hurdle: Adsum; next, Bal-
dini.
Williamstown Steeple: Sandhurst; next,
Cobbon.
* * * *
Sold to A. H. Hughes for £4OO in the belief
that he was a back number, In Petto
(Bachelor’s Persse—ltalian Maid) beat a
good field in the race for the Brisbane Cup,
to which £4OOO was added this year, in the
fast time of 3min. 231 sec. Ten to one in
the ring, he was ridden by the former Sydney
pony jockey, Hornery; he is trained by the
owner’s son, with assistance from an English-
man who considers that Australian horses
prepared for long-distance events don’t, as a
rule, get enough work. In Petto has been a
model of consistency in Brisbane Cups; third
in 1927, second (to Canning Queen) last
year and now first. Canning Queen, an even-
money favorite, finished fourth; she failed
again in the Royal Stakes, w.f.a., on Satur-
day. game little Paddi Eye, who did not
start in the Cup, winning at odds on. Shiel'a’s
Lad, third in the Cup, was first in the More-
ton Handicap, at 4 to 1, on the last day;
1.0. U., the so-called “mystery horse” from
Sydney, was favorite but was beaten out of
a place.
$ $ $ $
Trigo, a colt by Blandford —Athasi won
the Epsom Derby from Ixnd Woolavington’s
colt Walter Gay and Brienz. He is Irish
bred, and is owned by YV, Barnett, an Irish
merchant; Marshall, the rider, learned his
business under Australian Stan Wootton.
There were 20 starters, and Trigo went out
at 33 to 1, the same as Felstead last year.
* :l= *
“0.P.H.” : t Vic. Opposition-leader Hogan
acted as judge at the last Ballan races, and,
as he knows a thing or two about the turf,
he didn’t find the task very difficult. He
was more fortunate than another politician—
also an ex-Minister —who agreed some years
ago to take the judge’s box for the day at
an historic town on the north-eastern line.
Intent on watching the gee-gees skirting the
fence that shut off the flat, he overlooked two
which swept by and nearly grazed the box.
As a result, he picked the third horse as
winner. Appealed to unofficially, a V.R.C.
bigwig who was present said that it was the
judge’s job to decide, and that nobody had
suggested that the verdict; tvas not honest,
however mistaken. They let it go at that.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Two Americans, “Babe” Herman and
.Claude Wilson, clashed at Sydney Stadium
on Saturday night. Herman’s form was far
below what he displayed against Jack
Roberts; many of his blows missed by yards.
Wilson was busy with his left in “Babe’s”
face, but in the seventh and eighth rounds it
looked as if he would crumple under body
punishment. He kept going, however, and
received the decision at the. end of 15 rounds.
The attendance was poor, and back-benchers
didn’t like the look of the thing in the early
rounds, but it was genuine enough. Herman,
fist. 51b., had a pull of 21b. in the weights
s{i * *
Sporting an outsize in paunches, abo.
Billy Samuels (lOst. 101 b.) reappeared in the
main bout at Melbourne Stadium on Satur-
day night, and for 12 rounds tried desperately
to land his annihilating right on the person
of Bert Malcolm (fist. 1011 b.). In this he
failed, and with light taps to the abo.’s
swollen mid-section Herbert earned the deci-
sion. Billy Negus (9st. 911 b.) and Tom
Pemberton (9st. 131 b.) pleased with a snappy
ten rounds; Thomas fought a gallant uphill
battle, but found his opponent’s precision too
much for him.
Footbrawl
Fine, though cold, weather and 26,000
persons greeted the S. Australians on the
Melbourne Cricket Ground when they came
out to tackle the Vies, on Saturday. Quick
in the pick-up, marking and passing well and
kicking accurately, the Croweaters were a
competent team; the Dark Blues by com-
parison a mere aggregation of stars, of second
or third magnitude. At quarter-time the
visitors had five goals to three goals two
behinds. Then the Vies, fell into their places
and watched their men, and at the interval
were but three points in arrear. On resum-
ing the locals staged a spell of accurate,
systematic play that gave them a 30-point
lead and the game looked over. Many left
the ground, thereby missing a thrilling finish.
Swinging into their system and passing per-
fectly from Handby to Snell, to Riley or
Ryan, the Croweaters crept up to within
four points. But the Vies, had enough energy
left to bombard their opponents’ position for
the last few minutes; they got no goal, but
five more behinds gave them a nine-point
victory—ll goals 16 behinds to S.A.’s 11
goals 7 behinds. Those named, with Scott
and Dayman, shone for S.A., and Warne-
Smith, A. Collier, Ludlow, Stanbridge and
Titus for Vic., but both teams carried pas-
sengers. It was Victoria’s 24th win to S.
Aus.’s 11, one match being a tie.
Improving vastly on their exhibition
against the Queenslanders, the N.S.W. Aus-
tralian-rules team gave a strong Victorian
side a good go at the Sydney C. G. Scores
were equal at half-time : with 10 minutes to go
the Yarra-bankers were only six points
ahead. Finishing stoutly, the visitors added
two goals and won by 118 to 100.
N.S.W., completed a hat-trick against
Bananaland Rugby Leaguers at Sydney
Showground on Saturday, winning a dull
match by 12 to 10. After their hollow defeat
a week earlier, the visitors fielded their
next-best team for the King’s Birthday
game, and were walloped 17-8 by a ditto
home team. Several players in this second
game got into the New South ranks on
Saturday, including Justice, no better in
hooking against Henderson than Edwards
had been: Maher, an improvement in centre;
and Ridley, a country winger, who scored
a brilliant try and has pace and weight,
but has a lot to learn.
(Continued on page /ft.)
THE DROP SURVEYS THE BUCKET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It’s not the likes of you an’ me,” he said,
“That lift the easy money from the game;
There’s hundreds from the owner to the head
That’s gotter get their cut. An’ just the
same
The books aren’t starvin’, are they? An’
the clubs
Aren’t mortgagin’ their stands or floatin’
loans?
Then where, I ask you, do they find the dubs
To go and ante up for all them drones?
These lawns an’ things, they make a grand
display—
It’s you an’ me, mug-punters, lad, that pay.
“Observe,” he said, “the stakes they chuck
about,
Like they were pounds o’ tea or hunks o’
cheese!
Five thousand, eight or ten —without a doubt
You’d think that money grew around on
trees.
An’ twenty thou, reserve for one flash colt,
Or so the papers say. So help me, Tom,
It gives a man a flamin’ man-size jolt
To think where all that dough is cornin’
from !
Aw, yes! There’s swank and style around
to-day;
But, still and all, it’s you an’ me that pay.
“Look at the books,” he said. “They’re
lioldin’ well;
There’s Angus Jacobs just a week ago
Gave thirty thousand for a house, they tell,
An’ Paddy Solomon can’t count his dough;
An’ Mo MacPherson’s got six snifter cars,
An’, like- as not, will soon be havin’ nine;
But owners don’t spend any less in bars,
An’ trainers, jocks, and all are livin’ fine.
An’ who’s the melon, son? Who keep’s ’em
gay?
Don’t you forget—it’s you an’ me that pay.
“Just think a while,” he said. “This crim-
son stand—
Two hundred thousand quid or so, they
say;
An’ that’s not half of it. Why, son, this
land—
Hello, they're off! Did Dinkum get away?
Blue and pink cross belts.... What? He’s
lyin’ third?
No, that’s not him. That’s Clancy’s colt,
Here’s Ilow,
That someone whispered to me was a bird,
But Dinkum.. .. There he is. Third last,
_ the cow!
There’s a good dollar gone.... Aw, well,
hooray!
Too right I’m right—it’s you an’ me that
pay!”
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


PROGRESS!
The 80th ANNUAL REPORT of the
A.M.P. SOCIETY
for the year 1928 discloses:—
NEW BUSINESS completed £21,352,160
CASH SURPLUS to be distributed amongst
participating members 3,270,000
PAID TO MEMBERS or their, dependents. . . . 4,072,305
ASSETS at 31st December, 1928 73,776,235
PAID TO MEMBERS or their dependents since establishment the immense
sum of NINETY-ONE MILLION POUNDS.
Provide for your dependents—make provision for your old age—secure
a profitable investment by effecting a policy with
AUSTRALIA’S FOREMOST LIFE OFFICE.
Write or 'phone for prospectus.
F. T. BRIDGES, Acting General Manager.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 8W2354.
Branch and District Offices throughout Australia and New Zealand.
w
POV
A*
S/A* S .
efts
todtsp
M-
etvt
au
POH
\s
utP^
eQ
ov
usaS e
B\ac
s cU°
rd
ot
Y\a
\ts
T
to
vteto-
s\V“
UP
ad
bve
x peu
de
sta
ud
to
Made
eau s
ad*
\u
au ce
pP*° v
u°
ppeut
b?
d’vute
yet
Vvue
£tvtP e
\ctuau
l.tu
AjJtU
yjoi
co
bVW
fl don
topo teel
da
u°
etP°
peu
Dtp""
u v
W° lCe
in"
ltD
ReP air
l 3?
tof' es
0 >i (l
tfytie
yac
A#* 11 .
M
i ris-
ing
Street
Md"*
pSO^
paU
nee
ca te
cr' s
Vetoed
pen
»\a c
PoV nX -
pens
56^*
SBBS
/
BBS
OB
VJBBB
SB
' '
'
NOW NEATLY CASED at same price!
A strongly-made grained-leather case is now provided with every Plum
Razor, at no increase in cost. With its blade set to perfection—guaran-
teed and kept in order for two years free:—the Plum Razor shaves cleanly,
easily, quickly—leaves the most delicate skin smooth and comfortable.
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Real Ivory Handle 21 /- „
Satin-lined doable case free with pair.
7-day Sets—7 Razors in Case.
Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
Post free to any address.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Six
Razor Blades
PACKET
PER
Here’s a Safety Razor Blade that really does
bring shaving comfort. It’s made of specially
tempered Swedish steel; it’s double-edged,
with each edge as keen as keen; it shaves
cleanly and closely; it never drags or sulks
. . . fits Gillette Razors. Obtainable at
David Jones’. Try a shillings worth of this
previously unknown shaving comfort now.
Obtainable at the Tobacco Section , Lower Ground
Floor New Store & Branch Shop , Opp. G.P.O.
Visit the Men’s Coffee Shop
COFFEE, BISCUIT, CIGARETTE 6d.
A quite secluded little spot where you can
have your coffee just as you like it. Open
io a.m.—noon and 3—5 p.m.
On Third Floor , George Street Store.
DAVID JONES
Castlereagh, Market and Elizabeth Sts.
Branch Men’s Store, Opp. G.P.O.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know —from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
TUESDAY—Price 3d
dr
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
Rheumatic Pains
are Dangerous
Beware of Backache, Joint Pains, Swollen Limbs, Scalding Pains,
Sediment, Etc. Neglect or Wrong Treatment Serious
Everyone should know how soon simple backaches,
joint or limb pains and urinary troubles turn to more
serious disorders, and should know the folly of
neglect.
REMOVES THE CAUSE
If your kidneys are disordered, uric acid will slowly
undermine your health ; if the bladder is weak, your
sufferings may become intense. Don’t risk neglect.
You need something more than relief. The most
, effective remedy you can take is Harrison’s Pills—
-1 a proven prescription of the most valuable medicinal
agents known for the successful treatment of Rheu-
matic, Kidney, Bladder and Urinary Complaints—
the greatest boon conveniently available for those
who suffer from these dread ills.
SURE, SAFE & PROMPT
Harrison’s Pills quickly assist kidneys, bladder .-
urinary organs to health, and free you from i
acid danger; they soothe away inflammation
dealing with the CAUSE. Relief is surprise
prompt; so naturally healthful that other heai . i
destroying troubles, such as constipation ;■
“nerves” depart with the rheumatic aches and pai
Get back your health, strength and vigor wit .1 a
delay-—take Harrison’s Pills—the remedy you to
rely upon. Three sizes: 2/-, 3/- and the 0/- Econoim
Size.
Money back if not more than satisfied
with results, or you can have a Free
Sample by posting this coupon.
PROVE HARRISON’S PILLS WITHOUT COST!
To Department 8.,
AMALGAMATED LABORATORIES, Kembla Building, Sydney.
Gentlemen, —Please send me a sample package of Harrison’s Pills Free and Postage Paid.
Name ....Address
Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney, and all High-class Chemists.


s
0$
POLO
AND SHEEP SALES
SYDNEY
JUNE 25— JULY 6.
An unforgettable holiday
( for those who will enjoy
the world-famous hospi-
tality of “The Australia.”
Cable, Wireless, Telegraphic Address:
“Aus tract el, Sydney.’’
Magnificently illustrated booklet free on request.
Muff : * Thats Brown, poor
CHAp "
Days are numbered/''
"hASNT QOT LONQ to IWE
PUFF*. "XHY"?
Mup=f:“ hes a Klelbourwe
FOOTBAvLU VJMFtR.&,"
Footbrawl
The young teams in the Sydney Rugby
Union competition are coming along well.
The Police forwards quite held their own
with the strong Manly pack on Saturday,
and only superior goal-kicking gave Manly
its margin of seven points—2l to 14.
Y.M.C.A. was also hard pressed by St. George,
and was relieved when the final whistle went
leaving the Young Men winners by 19 to
16. Injuries robbed Glebe-Balmain of a
victory over Randwick, which wound up
with 16 to 12 after Glebe had struggled on
for some time with 12 men; Jack Ford,
the 16st. forward, was among the casualties.
Western Suburbs-TJni was another close
game, West prevailing by 11 to 9. On return-
ing to the pavilion the ’Varsity lads learned
that their mates in Maoriland had been
trounced in their third match against Maori-
land Universities, whose XV was thus un-
beaten.
* * * *
By all accounts the Maoriland selectors
have picked a strong team to visit Australia,
but Porter, Nepia and Dailey are the only
familiar names. The complete list follows:
Full-back, Nepia (East Coast) ; wing three-
quarters, Grenside (Hawkes Bay), Water-
man (North Auckland), Geddes (South-
land) ; centre three-quarters, Carleton (Can-
terbury), Stringfellow (Wairarapa) ; half-
back, Dailey (Canterbury) ; wing forward,
Porter (Wellington) ; forwards. Palmer
(Auckland), Cottrell (Canterbuiy), Souter
(Otago), Steere (Hawkes Bay), Sonntag
(Otago), McWilliams (Auckland), Kivell
(Taranaki), Rika (North Auckland). Reside
(Wairarapa), Mahoney (Bush district),
Snow (Nelson), Reid (Wairapara) ; five-
eighths, Lilburne (Canterbury), Cundy
(Wairarapa), Oliver (Canterbui’y), and Hook
(Auckland). When Nepia was in Australia
last he did not greatly impress the critics,
but he achieved a wonderful reputation dur-
ing the tour of Britain. In Ross he will
meet a worthy opponent; indeed full-back
play should be one of the most interesting
features of the coming series of matches in
Sydney.
* * * *
“W.RiK.”: Not many of the All Blacks
who toured South Afi’ica were candidates
for places in the team to visit Australia.
Alley, the big Christchurch lock, is not taking
the game very seriously nowadays. li’azlett
and Lindsay are resting for a season. Cyi'il
Brownlie and Neil McGregor have retired.
Sheen is still suffering from injuries received
in Afi-ica. Frank Kilby, the clever resei’ve
half, had resolved to have a spell, but was
persuaded to turn out in Wanganui. It was
hoped that he and Bill Dailey would be seen
in Sydney, but only Dailey is making the
trip.
* * * *
“Runa” : The complaint of having to “play
the referee” as well as the opposition team is
faixdy common in football circles, but at an
up-country match, in N.S.W. recently the
visiting side found itself playing spectators
as well. A youthful sprinter was running
goalwards as wide out as he could go, when
he suddenly hurtled forward and crashed.
There was some argument as to how he came
by his injury, and the young man himself,
on_ regaining consciousness, gave it as his
opinion that he had caught his foot in a rut.
But those in the immediate vicinity were
prepared to swear that the perpetrator of the
crash was an xxltra-respectable matron with
a son in the other team, and the instrument
of disaster her ancient hook-handled
umbrella.
* * * *
Harry Sunderland and Lome Dargan are
to manage the N.S.W.-Queensland Rugby
League team booked to leave for the North
of England next month. Sunderland’s
appointment was anticipated, for he has been
a gi-eat worker for the game in Queensland,
and his facile tongue and pen —he is a press-
man—will be of service to the tourists; but
that of the Sydney man was a bit of a sur-
prise. At the beginning of the season he
was beaten for the secretaryship of North
Sydney, which he had held for 32 years. It
was widely felt that ho had been the victim
of rank ingratitude, and this feeling pei’haps
weighed with the Board of Control.
$ * * *
“Lond”: Something quite new on the
screen is “Rugger,” a film made by British
Internationals, showing in detail all the
phases of play. The actor-players range from
Wakefield, England’s captain, downwards. It
runs for over an hour, and is being shown
on the “home projector” at many schools and
clubs. A selected 20 minutes of it ought to
be good for almost any theatre, too.
* * * *
“Flagwagger”: After the evening’3 train-
ing recently at a Melbourne League club’s
headquarters, the coach lined up his team
for a lecture, which brought him praise from
club officials. But later, chatting with Dash,
one of the team, I learned that the lecture
was not oi*iginal. Word for word Dash him-
self had used it when tutoring a country
team a few years ago. And it. had been
originally written by the brainy coach of a
premier League team to assist a team-mate
who had just been appointed coach of an-
other club. Perhaps those who declare that
coaches are merely glorified trainers are not
so wide of the mark.
* * * *
“Hamer”; This year wall see a centenary
and a jubilee in Australian football. It was
on July 25. 1829, that the first Australian
press reference was made to the game, when
the Sydney Monitor described it as “an
amusement of the militai’y... .much played
in Leicestershire.” The jubilee belongs
to the Australian code, which had its first
inter-colonial football match at Adelaide on
July 1, 1879.
* * * *
“Omar P. M.”: Soccer football is im-
mensely popular in India, being played by
natives and whites alike. Of late, a good
deal of fricUon has been working up between
native and European teams, and the Indian
Football Association threatened to stop all
such matches. The pious Hindu has coun-
tered by forming a new association for
native teams only.
Racquet and Bawl
The Davis Cup competition drags its slow
length along. The U.S. team of youngsters,
by defeating the Japan. se and th > Cubans
(conquerors of the Mexicans), qualified for
the right to meet the winners in the Euro-
pean zone. The English will evidently make
a bold bid for that distinction; Gregory and
Austin started well by trouncing the South
Afr'cans. However, it looks as if the
Frenchmen will retain their grip on the Cup.
Their Lacoste, Borotra and Cochet had
things all their own way in the contest for
the singles championship of their country,
Tilden (rising 37, and fat and scant of
breath) being among the vanquished, as well
as Morpugo. Lacoste won the final after a
stiff fight with our old friend Borotra.
* * * *
“ Jaykay”: There have been ribald com-
ments on the cabled remark of Miss Tapscott
(“Billy” to the scribes who write so delight-
fully about the dear creatures) that stock-
ings interfere with her play. After seeking
enlightment from the boss’s new typist, I
want to say a word in the lady’s defence.
As far as I can make out it is not the
stockings themselves that are the trouble
but the mysterious harness necessary to keep
them up. In these days of short skirts
and no stays garters don’t prevent those
wrinkles at the knee, and the only alter-
native is an arrangement called a suspender
belt. This, although not an impediment in
the ballroom, constitutes some slight nuisance
when the wearer is at speed.
* * * *
“The Curate”: The Australian L.T.A.
Council has revealed the melancholy truth
that the overseas tour of the tennis girls
resulted in a loss of £1226. Expenditure
came to £2lO1 —it included, besides steamer
and railway fares, hotel expenses and tips,
£375 for “players’ allowances” and £l2B
for “equipment allowances,” which shows
that amateurs can do the thing properly—-
and “gates” were wretched in five of the
countries visited, though Britain yielded a
respectable £4OO. The deficit amounted to
£306 10s. per girl. And now the sex is
triumphantly pointing out that the previous
overseas tour, which was managed by a lady
and not by the Council’s secretary, a gent.,
showed a profit.
* * * *
“H. H’ardupp”: The proprietor of new
tennis courts for hire in our neighborhood
is a forthright man. He has put up a notice
reading, “The management reserves the right
to exclude any lady it may deem proper.”
* * * *
“Player”: The Save-the-Gx-ound cry has
been raised again by the people who control
the courts at Rushcutters Bay. There are
some queer blokes on the administrative side
of Sydney lawn-tennis, but the ground is
worth saving. H. W. Austin is a witness
to this effect. “Sydney’s White City courts,”
the Englishman says, “are the only others in
the "world to rival the Wimbledon centre
courts. The four courts in front of the
pavilion are as good as the centre court at
Wimbledon. I never once experienced a mis-
bounce at White City, which is remarkable,
and an enormous advantage to the Australian
playei's. It is the same in all the big Aus-
tralian cities.” Apropos, the Save-the-
Gronnd fund ought to get a lift from the
meeting of Anderson and Crawford at the
White City. Anderson is nearly as old as
Tilden, but his friends won’t have it that the
youngster can beat him.
The Nineteenth Hole
To the surprise of many golfers the
brothers Bettington, B.C.J. and R.H., won
the foui-somes championship of N. S. Wales
at Rose Bay links with rounds of 76 and 78.
R.H. is the finer cricketer, but he is not so
sound a golfer as 8.C.J., who shares the
foursomes championship of the continent
with Hunter. However, the man who should
have been in the Australian eleven last sea-
son played some exceptionally fine shots on
Saturday, and B.C.J. was on hand with
clever recoveries when It.H. was erratic.
Stnrrock and Apperly were second, return-
ing a card of 156, and Fawcett and Whitton
were a stroke worse; the Victorian showed
very much better form than Fawcett.
* ,* * *
“V.L.H.C.”: Can any other city in the
world claim eight golf courses leading off a
main road within a radius of 17 miles?
Sydney throws its hat into the ring and
challenges all-comers to beat this record
along Pittwater-road. The clubs are Manly,
Deewhy, Long Reef, Eleanora, Mona Vale,
Bayview, Avalon and Palm Beach; the num-
ber pans out a fraction over one" in every
two miles. In addition the Balgowlah Club
hoists its flag within a stone’s-throw of the
Manly links, whilst a hardy soul has opened
some putting-greens on the Ocean-parade of
the Village, alongside the miniature course
(maslxie and putter only) of the North
Steyne Club. It’s a wonderful example of
devotion to the cult of earth-massacre, ball-
defacing and general all-round profanity.
* * * *
“Fluff”: The golfing temperament, like its
artistic equivalent, is a tender thing. Accord-
ing to the cabled accounts of the French
championship, won by the 21-year-old Ameri-
can Horton Smith, Englishman George
Duncan fared so badly that he tore up
his card and pulled out of the contest.
A golfer who has had a bad passage,
and is askgd to produce his score-card for
inspection by all and sundry, is very much
like a female of indefinite age who is pressed
in the witness-box for her actual tale of
years. The man is usually the ruder in his
responses.
* * * *
“Hickory”: American manufacturers of
golf material are in the field with yet an-
other improvement on old-time methods. The
new gadget is known as the anti-shock iron
club. A thin sheet of rubber is inserted
in the joint between the wooden shaft and
the steel head of the club, and this is sup-
posed to eliminate shock and insure more
accurate approaching. It is probable that
this last claim may call the attention of St.
Andrews to the invention, that venerable
body being prone to frown on adventitious
aids to the great art and mystery of “gowf.”
* * * *
“A.V.”: “Delia” (B. 22/5/’29) relates
an instance of two golf balls meet.ng in mid-
air, but the thing is by no means as rare as
she imagines. Years ago a similar case
occurred on the Elstcrnwick (Vic.) links; in
fact I was one of the parties. My ball, sliced
from the seventh tee, met at the top of its
flight one sliced from the sixth. Dimboola
lately reported an incident almost as odd—
the holing out of a ball in a small hollow
limb projecting from a large dead redgum.
* * * *
“Stymie”: Dittle is heard nowadays of
one-club matches. They used to be frequent
years ago, and furnished a very enlightening
form of golf education. In one such match
I used a mid-iron all the way, and did a
better round than I had been doing with my
whole kit. The experience taught me that
the “mid” had possibilities hitherto un-
guessed, and that I needed much practice
with other clubs. Playing a round with put-
ter only is purely “freak”; but the one-
club match has its uses.
# $ * *
“Zabut”: Vardon, in his book on golf,
classifies courses as links and inland links.
The best example of links in Australia is
to be found at Warrnambool (Vic.) —at
least, Warrnambool says so. To the uniniti-
ated there seemed to be three insurmountable
barriers —sand, rough growth and rabbits.
But George Lowe, who had had experience
in three countries, regarded only the rabbits
with disfavor; and they have been almost
exterminated. The fairways in use have a
wonderful depth of grass, and local players
are already wondering what brand of golf it
was they used to play on the old links.
The changes wrought by the enthusiasm and
hard work of Lowe have awakened the
interest of the non-golfing public in the pos-
sibilities of improving foreshores.
* # * *
“H'.H.”; Whilst, owing to the scarcity of
public courses, golf is still a game for the
well-to-do in Australia, the Seghill Colliery
in Northumberland has established a special
course for the miners and their wives. A
sub. of 6d. per week covers everything, and
a pro. is on the spot to coach players who
need coaching.
(Continued on next page.)


0
o
B-E-f
RKiS^fi
w
v
Ensure efficient running by fitting B.E.S.
SPARK PLUGS. A type for every car, truck,
tractor, cycle, aeroplane and marine engine.
Fully guaranteed. All garages. Price 4/6.
Manufactured by
Australian Spark Plugs Pty., Ltd.
562 Spencer Street, Melbourne, C.i.
’Phones: F 4947, F 5961.
Winchester Rifle, Model 56.
22-Cal. Long Rifle only
Handles well
and
Shoots well.
fsd
The Rifle
for Small Game
Price, £5. Post free to all parts of
Australia.
The Gun House,
COWLES (El DUNN,
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Catalogue B.
t**PUMP TYPE
SUPER CHARCER
jl. EFFICIENCY
™ WITH ECONOMY
l SIMPLICITY
Wholesale Agents and Stockists:
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Car and Cycle
“R. Flag” : There were a couple of 2400-
c.e. Fronty Fords in the five-miles car han-
dicap at the last meeting on the Penrith
(N.S.W.) speedway. One, receiving 27sec.
from East’s 1496-c.c. Bugatti, on the scratch
mark, captured the final by 10 lengths, East
having to go round too many cars; the time
was smin. 52 3-ssec. The winning car was
assembled and driven by a local youngster
named Hughes. These improvised caravans
have a good record on N.S.W. tracks.
* * * *
“Garx-y”: Owners of small ears delight in
equipping them with stream-lined bodies, sug-
gesting immense speed capabilities. On a
smooth racing track the small car can attain
a speed of a mile a minute or better. It
can get pretty near that on the road, but
not with any degree of comfort for those
aboard. It’s a matter of wheel-base. The
shorter the wheel-base the harder the bump
when road ripples are encountered. The
essential virtue of the small car is that it
is cheap to run—it eats but little petrol, and
is easy on tyres. There is a legend that
Henry Ford, in designing Model T, safe-
guarded the pockets of purchasers and the
Ford reputation for durability by putting
the centre of gravity so high that the car
rocked alarmingly if the accelerator-pedal
was pushed down too far. However that
may be, there’s always a good reason why
small cars and cheap cars shan’t exceed
reasonable speed limits on the roads.
“Spanner” : The electric motor-car, which
had a brief vogue a few years ago and was
praised for its silence and simplicity, faded
out of favor because of its very limited cruis-
ing radius and the lack of facilities for re-
charging the batteries. That it will come
back is the firm conviction, not only. of the
leaders of electrical industry in America and
Britain, but of many automobile manufac-
urers. But the electric car of the future won’t
carry a burden of heavy batteries. Its light,
compact, powerful motor will draw its juice
from the ether, and the motorist’s meter will
be read every now and then by the man from
the radio co. There won’t be any necessity
for gears or a clutch, and a sealed governor
will prevent over-speeding. Lubrication will
be automatic, and all the driver will need to
do will be to steer the car and control speed
by a- little lever on the steering wheel —the
tram-motor’s progressive switch on a daintier
scale. Collisions won’t be as dangerous as
they are now —the car will have pneumatic
buffers all over, and even if it falls over a
100 ft. precipice the occupants will have a
very good chance of surviving. Malleable
glass that will bend but not break will
abolish another of tlxe dangers of motoring.
!>: * * =!:
“R.F.”: Penrith staged a race for the
15-miles sidecar championship—“of Austi’al-
asia,” it was proudly announced —at its
last gathering. Victorian Allan Lewis,
steering a 588-c.c. Norton, won as he liked,
after Robinson and Madson had struck
trouble and retired, and the watch recorded
14min. 3 2-ssec., averaging 64 m.p.h. Good
going; indeed, a sidecar record for the track.
“0.H.V.” : The most irrational thing in
the motoring world in the present year of
grace is the motor-cycle-mm-sidecar. Any-
body who has driven the contraptions or
x’idden in the little canoe alongside knows
that they are uncomfortable—for the driver,
because he has to steer against a one-sided
drag; and for the passenger, because, with
the best of springing, road shocks are trans-
mitted with rude abruptness. The cheapest
of sidecar outfits costs not very much less
than the cheapest car; the most expensive
costs more, and it’s a mystery why the
hybrid survives. Cornering at any speed
over 25 miles an hour with a sidecar is not
only an art —it’s a gamble with the old
party who carries a scythe and an hour-
glass.
* J|: -I:
“Sprocket”: A great test of man and
machine was the 5000-mile run across Can-
ada by J. G. Oates, an English rider of some
repute on the tracks. His mount was an
Ariel, with a side-car carrying camping gear.
He completed his task in 21 days, 800 miles
of the journey being ridden over the sleepers
of the Canadian Pacific railway. This was
the first time that a car or cycle has run
this route—the only one possible across Can-
ada—without having wheels specially changed
to fit the railway. On arrival at Vancouver,
in spite of its punishing run from Halifax,
the 500-c.c. jigger was readv for the next
spin.
Miscellaneous
Australian and Maoriland Universities are
figuring in a very interesting series of spoil-
ing contests on both sides of the Tasman.
The Maorilanders, on their own soil, are
winning at Rugby Union football, but in
Sydney last week their track athletes were
beaten in all the events decided at the Uni-
versity Oval except the 161 b.-shot putt, 11.
A. Henderson succeeding for them with a
throw of 37ft. 7Jin. F. S. Ramson, their
crack hurdler, was leading by several yards
in the quarter-mile over the sticks when he
fell at the last jump. The outstanding Aus-
tralian athlete was E. M. Davidson, the tall
lad from Melbourne, who won the 220yds.
(in 22 4-ssec.), was one of the victorious
four in the mile relay, came second in the
100 yards (run in 10 3-ssec.) to J. B. Rowe,
and cleared sft. lljin. in an exhibition high
jump. A. H. Young romped away with the
quarter-mile in olsec., and A. J. Hillhouse
with the mile in 4min. 29 l-ssec.; and O. E.
Worth defeated Ramson in the 120 yards
hurdles in 16sec. The track was heavy, so
these times were very creditable.
“The Gaffer”: New records are always
coming out of America, and the latest is a
discus throw of 163 ft. Sfin. by Eric Krenz,
of Stanford University, California. This
is nearly Oft. better than Houser’s Olympic
record at Amsterdam. But one cannot help*
asking what earthly use lies behind the
throwing of the discus. Jumping and run-
ning are useful accomplishments to any man,
and there is something to be said for javelin-
throwing. But the underhand bowling of a
steel soup plate seems out of place in manly
sports, though undoubtedly it might prove
advantageous to women athletes in the later
days when they determinedly turn to thoughts
of matrimony.
:J: '<• * *
“Shinguard”: As Australian footballers
know well, sporting sides visiting Maori-
land have to earn their oats. The Aus-
tralian hockey team which invades the
Dominion in July will need to be in good
fettle. The first game will be against Wai-
rarapa on July 18; other matches follow
on July 23, 24, 27, 31, August 3. 7 and 8!
No wonder the tour is to be confined to the
North Island. An itinerary like that would
wear down a croquet team.
* * * *
“C. Bumpkin”: Melbourne outboard motor-
boat enthusiasts are proud of the exploit of
J. Phillips, who has returned per steamer
from Adelaide after travelling in the Miss
Bcda from Albury to the Murray mouth, a
distance of 1600 miles, with the river at its
lowest for 15 years. Phillips’s expedition was
not a mere stunt. Tie charted parts of the
waterway which had never been charted be-
fore. His original intention of facing the
frightful bar was abandoned, but he
attempted to make the ocean voyage from
outside the mouth to Adelaide. A big wave
rolled him over, and he was rescued at the
third time of going down by a launch. The
cockleshell has an o.a. length of 13 feet.
And A. C. Wagner, emulating poet Brady’s
feat of long ago, has rowed himself down the
Murray. He avoided the snags and shal-
lows of the upper reaches, by starting at
Mildura, not far above the Darling junction,
and spread the journey over a month. His
actual rowing time was less than half that.
* * *
Willie Smith, now in Sydney, started off
in a rather slovenly fashion against Fred
Lindrum, to whom he is conceding 10,000
points in a 12-days’ contest, finishing next
Saturday. But he gradually warmed up,
and on the third dav came to light with a
JACK GAITSKILL, skipper of the North
Launceston club, a very fine Tas. foot-
baller.
break of 837, made by perfect all-round
play. In previous appearances he had proved
himself a master of trick shots as well as
“straight” billiards. The Englishman looks
like proving too strong for Fred Lindrum’s
brother Walter. He is to commence a match
against that young man at Melbourne on
July 1, and another at Sydney on July 15.
❖ * ijc
“Hamer”: Billiardist Frank Smith (B.
29/5/’29) has good sports on both sides of
him.' His son Frank is likewise a top-notch
billiardist; his father, 90 years old the other
day, still enjoys angling and a bit of shoot-
ing. The old chap was for 40 years town
crier in Hobart.
* * * *
“S.G.”: Sporting writers are as much the
slaves of fashion as flappers and knuts. only
their fashion runs to particular words and
phrases. Two or three months ago they had
a craze for applying the term “colorful” to
SID COVENTRY, who captains Colling-
wood (Vic.), the most famous team
playing the Australian game.
their favorite heroes and heroines. Pugilists,
cricketers, motorists, cyclists, baseballers,
jockeys, golfers and racqueteers were one
and all “colorful.” Even bowlers . and
croquet-players had the overworked adjec-
tive thrust on them. But “colorful” is rarely
used now except, perhaps, by amateur con-
tributors to the free suburban papers. Exit
“colorful”; enter “rise to great heights.”
Bruiser Bill, Half-back Hannigan, Strangler,
the pony jockey, McFoozlum, the Haber-
field pro., Poppy Bareshanks, the Camberwell
champion—these and hundreds of other sport-
ing worthies persistently “rise to great
heights.”
* * * *
“Zorro”: A cricket match which lasted
three months and in which each side fielded
400 players has been ended in Samoa. One
village challenged another, the' stake being
100 kegs of beer. At the end of the three
months the villages were in a state of star-
vation, and the resultant free fight was any-
thing but bloodless. Consequently the
Administrator put the kybosh on matches
for a stake. How is this as a suggestion
to brighten Test cricket?
# . s}: * sjs
“Bill Adams”: Some of these ancients are
apt to lose their sense of proportion. A
Maoriland paper recently published some
“reminiscences” by the late James Lilly-
white, wherein the old gentleman asserted that
he had conducted Stoddart’s Rugby football
team to Australia, as well as a cricket team.
“The cricket team,” the ancient is reported
to have said, “never lost a match, while the
football team never won one.” Lillywhite's
last visit to Australia was with his cricket
team of 1876-77. Stoddart’s Rugby side did
not visit Australasia until 11 years later.
Far from “never winning a match,”
“Stoddy's” side cleaned up all opposition m
Australia, and lost only two matches out of
19 in Maoriland.
3jl % Jfc
“Splash”: American exchanges show that
some fast swims were put up at the Ameri-
can national indoor championships at Brook-
lyn recently. Outstanding was the perform-
ance of George Kojae, the Olympic back-
stroke champion. In a 25yds. pool the
Amcrican-llungarian went after Billy Ivea-
loha’s world’s figures of lmin. 44 4-ssee. for
the 150 yards, and knocked the record down
to lmin. 39sec. What a good one he is may
also be gauged from his second to Ludy
Ganger in the 100yds. free-style event, which
he swam in 52 l-ssee., or nearly a second
better than Duke Kahanamoku's Australian
figures, which have stood since 1915.
“Slide” : Sydney regards the Victorian in-
stitution of Henley-on-Yarra with a vitreous
optic, and has several times resolved to run
a similar show of its own. An attempt was
made some time ago to stage such a func-
tion on the Long Cove canal, a somewhat
dismal ditch much encumbered with defunct
dogs and similar impedimenta calculated to
become unpopular with the most enthusias-
tic frequenter of regattas. Finally this
silted up, and the function was abandoned.
It is now proposed to revive it, a creek run-
ning into the Parramatta at Hunter’s Hill
having been selected as the scene of the
revelry. Why the beautiful and easily ac-
cessible Nepean River was passed over is
not understandable. It is an ideal venue for
a jamboree of the sort.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Bumpkin”: The sailing-ship has made its
final farewell to Australia almost as many
times as Melba; nevertheless, eight sailers
have just been chartered to bring timber
from Scandinavia this year. They in< lude
the Pommern and the familiar Herzogiu
Cecilie, and all but one are owned in Fin-
land.
* s * *
“Coaldust”: Newcastle harbor certainly
presents a depressing appearance, but “Hugh
Stone” (B. 29/5/’29) oversteps the mark
when he says “there is a long line of cranes
on wharves that have not seen a ‘6O-miler'
for months.” Fourteen or fifteen unas-
sociated collieries are working; besides, a
fair quantity of coal is being produced from
small “holes in the ground.” And nearly
every day one or two “60-milers” nose their
way round Nobby’s, slip into a waiting
crane-berth, load a cargo of a few hundred
tons, and go churning their way back to
Sydney.
* * * *
“Clerk”: Clapp is now selling advertise-
ment space on his goods trucks. A sales
message on the two sides of a truck costs
£35 for 12 months ; in that time the cara-
van travels approximately 16,000 miles.
Already some .50 painted and lettered trucks
are travelling backwards and forwards on
Vic. lines, the space having been bought
chiefly by agricultural and pastoral concerns.
“Pabellco”: As the old-fashioned coi’k has
(except in the case of stuff long stored)
given away to the crown-capsule, so will the
latter bow before the progress of a more
easily attached composition cap from
Hungary. This cover, made of a celluloid-
like substance, comes in cup-shape and is
made pliable by soaking in water. When
plastic it is squeezed over the bottle-neck
by hand. As it dries it grips and clings like
greenhidc or sausage-casing, and when quite
dry is virtually part of the bottle. It may be
removed by a knife, or even strong fingers.
* * :!•-
“Pabellco”: Sydney surely is the champion
pie-eating city. One concern’s daily output of
meat-pies ranges throughout the year from
40,C0L) to 45,000, in addition to 12,000 pieces of
pastry not meat-filled and 4800 small cakes.
The pies are cooked as they pass through 60
feet of oven, and a complete butchery is
required to provide the meat. Apart from
the dough-mixing and paste-rolling, pie-mak-
ing is not a machinery art: lining of patty
tins, filling and capping are still done by
hand.
:!: * sic *
“Diesel”: The Adelaide Shipping Co.’s
9000-ton motor-liner Manunda, built at a
cost of half a million for the inter-State pas-
senger trade, made a fast passage from
Britain to Australia on her maiden voyage,
covering the 10,838 miles between Glasgow
and Adelaide in 29 days 10 hours. The mail
steamers usually occupy 33 days. A hand-
some and very comfortable craft, the Man-
unda is equipped with all the most modern
navigating and safety appliances. If a fire
breaks out in any part of the ship its exist-
ence and exact location are immediately sig-
nalled automatically to the officer on the
bridge. Water-tight doors are pneumati-
cally operated.
* * Sc Sc
“Avon”: A Palmerston North (M.L.)
man, name of Dilks, has been experimenting
in a hitherto little-exploited field—the reflec-
tion of heat rays. He claims to have dis-
covered a metallic alloy that reflects such
rays four times as efficiently as an ordinary
mercury-backed glass reflector, and by
employing this alloy in a parabolic mirror
he concentrates heat from the sun’s rays and
attains remarkably high temperatures. The
M.L. Institute of Inventors is so impressed
with his results that it has set up a research
board, which will endeavor to enlist the aid
of some of the world’s leading physicists.
Dilks is busy experimenting with cooking
appliances, but his idea, if he really is on
the right track, holds very much wider pos-
sibilities.
“Manuka” : Brisbane is not the only Aus-
tralian city where a concession-ticket system
is in force on the tramways (B. 8/5/’29) ;
Hobart has what is perhaps an even more
liberal one. On a twopenny section a weekly
ticket costs 3s. 6d. and on a threepenny sec-
tion ss. The tickets can be used on Sundays,
holidays and late trams without extra pay-
ment, and are also transferable.
❖ ❖ ❖ *
“Cellulose”: Paper and artificial silk are
using up the world’s forests apace, and
manufacturers - are going far afield for raw
material. Tasmanian stringy-bark pulp has
recently been satisfactorily tested for silk-
making in England, and further samples have
been asked for. Victoria, which grows the
same variety in profusion, has also sent
some of it to Europe.


am faying-.
Afire me
THE
obiloil
%
here are two reasons -.
, tee® 4,
tVve sia . , t „ tU
. a t b ee " v c
ca ° r 0 1 /m*** 1 to-
A aYS e it» v e t\^ eds
*>CO V .1 fcC*
tet * ta9 vd *
A t* l0 *
4 <e f
CC’
».?****?
*Pen- 9t
*9+e* liat *
W Cl °>*
**l
tr
bv° klSb
Hi
Per/.
on
G st
a °ce
***id
*v e i
e *«d
o
**i
ev
©i-
p. s e v (
n
v </
u
rl
£Ki
M
h.
' V, •,
r v_
-
/—j
ic
?Ws«<
fcMs-i
*
rC"
&
" W'
.iMkAW§k\
mm;.
'Sf 'SJ 'S/SS,' - V////Z ///// -
?«§ !
£
‘~ys/AV//ss--Yss/jf/ssj'\
PER. QUART
Cm# more and well worth ilf
VACUUM OIL COMPANY P TY - LTD.
2/3 per quart
in bulk.
Slightly higher
in country
districts.


Under
Royal
Warrant
f
To H.M.
Kino
George V
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
CWrfleidsie*
mmwmm
Australian Agnnts
Swift & Company u mitad
SYDNEY
c mam pack
Qiarlesilcidsiec
Reims
'&XV*BSM-02y
PELLIBSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Averts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
ust a Moment from Everywhere
The Wentworth —Australia’s most efficiently-managed hotel
—is handy to theatres, shops and banks —yet delight-
fully situated away from the noise and roar of the city.
Personally conducted by Mrs. H. Maelurcan, Governing
Director, it is the centre of all smart gatherings, and the
Mecca of visitors who appreciate comfort, convenience
and excellence in cuisine.
Wire or write your reservations.
OhA 'Whitworth
Church Hill,
Sydney.
11:11
iiM
; j;
AUSTRALIA’S
HOTEL DE-LUXE
c^
7hp cen/re of Queen s/onc/$
' c//s/inguts/>ec/ Soc/o/ Life.
motel
RDTQR
BRISBANE
Magnificent Ball-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
sdf
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
SHEER
CHIFFON
SILK
HOSIERY
Brer Rabbit did the impersonation act of
his life at Randwick on Saturday at the
end of the Winter A.J.C. Meeting. Summer
ermine, that aristocrat of the fur-coat world,
lias now a rival in specially-treated bunny!
Clipped and fussed and dyed the becoming
pale-cocoa shade, Bunny sits beside rich
brother, and it’s a clever woman can tell at
a glance the imitation from the 700-guinea
article. The fur coat was the almost uni-
versal wear in the teeth of Saturday’s biting
wind; and where the coat was not entirely
of skin it wore deep cuffs and collar of
skunk, fox or sable. Squirrel made the soft
cosy collar of Mrs. Weston Maher’s black
broadcloth coat; Mrs. Spencer Brunton
smiled over a high collar of grey fox; Mrs.
Howard Bullock was squirrel-collared. A
coat of real dinkum summer ermine was
supported by Mrs. J. ,T. Smith, in whose hand
was gripped a bag of black reindeer. Mrs. Sam
Walder was another wrapped in real ermine.
Rosemary Osborne’s currant-red hat topped
brown tweeds; and Mrs. Colin Stephen was
smart in tailored black.
Parliament House, be it ever so decked
with palms and bunting and languorous with
roses, does not lend itself to the frivolity
of tea parties. Only on a sunny afternoon
when tea is served on the balconies does the
old Macquarie-street house of many pillars
seem to throw itself into the spirit of the
thing. One of the very rare tea-drinkings
under the Bavin Ministry was spread in
honor of Excellency de Chair’s lady and
daughter Elaine on an afternoon last week
that alternated sulky cloud and smart
shower. It was, therefore, of necessity an
indoor affair rather than one of free air
and open spaces—said open spaces being the
pocket-handkerchief lawn at the side of the
House. The wives of members were the
hostesses; they received their guests in the
Speaker’s room, and then sped for the
dining-room, where the making of speeches
and the consumption of tea jingled along
pleasantly together.
Lady de Chair wore sleek plumage of
black satin and a black velour hat shiny
with coque feathers. Elaine contrasted navy
and steel grey; to the Vice-reine fell presen-
tation violets and roses, while the daughter
bagged an armful of golden gladioli. Acting-
Premier Buttenshaw’s wife was smart in
navy satin and cocoa with Arctic fox furs.
Tile-red and brown were allied in Mrs. F. S.
Boyce’s outfit; Mrs. F. A. Chaffey warmed
her powder-blue frock with fur; red was
Mrs. W. F. Dunn’s choice • and Miss Levy
was tailored in sunburn kasha. On every
side were the wives, sisters and daughters
of members, who sat as still as mice while
the inevitable speeches of welcome and reply
were made. But, then, look at the practice
in listening the poor darlings must have while
the man of the family rehearses his fire-
works ! Yet why—oh, why !—will people
make these speeches at so-called friendly
parties.
On Friday night half of the Sydney that
gets its name into the papers went to the
opening of the Union Picture Co.’s State
Theatre. Lord Stonehaven was there with
a party from Admiralty House; the State
Exes, came with daughter Elaine; and
acting-Premier Buttenshaw declared the
mass of marble and bronze and velvet and
gold open. These and Mr. Speaker and
Ministers of the Crown and the real nobs
sat in what is known as the Royal Mezzanine
lounge; and in their midst sat Stuart Doyle,
representing the co. which owns the theatre,
and with him Mrs. Stuart, clothed in pride
and flowing rose chiffons. But before she
sat down she had helped her lord to murmur
welcomes to the vice-res. and had handed
bouquets to Lady de Chair, who arrived in
jade moire wrapped in burgundy velvet; to
Miss Gillett and to Elaine de Chair, who
toned in with the ushers’ uniforms in skyey-
blue velvets. Decorations flashed on men’s
coats, Brigadier Bertie Lloyd turning out
in all his orders, his wife walking demurely
beside him in black velvet. Black splashed
with silver was worn by Mrs. Harry Budge.
If you asked this Letter it couldn’t tell
you whether it preferred the bronze statues
of King Arthur (a perfect likeness, it is
said) and St. George complete with dragon;
or the marble clock inlet in the mosaic of
the entrance vestibule; or the chandeliers,
glittering savagely as never drd their pre-
decessors at the Court of any Louis; or the
Italian marble statuettes set in little niches
about the Mezzanine balcony; or the red
velvet curtains dangling gold tassels looped
about the walls till every alcove suggested a
window in Versailles or the Tuileries. One
thing it didn't place first and that was the
carpet; but it lias nothing but admiration
for what it thought was a present from the
Gas Company, and which turned out to be
not a gold gasometer but the shaft in which
the Wurlitzer organ makes its exits and its
entrances.
In the interval reflections on the cerulean-
blue ushers, who ascended and descended the
stairs with scarcely a pause and with com-
plete amiability, ended in the decision that
they came in direct line from the angels who
ascended and descended Jacob’s ladder. The
Three Musketeers were in front of the house
in blue strapped coats and cream nankeen
trousers. So completely have even the fads
and fancies of the populace been studied that
this Letter disgraced itself by asking a high
official if there wasn’t a weighing-machine
let into the vestibule floor somewhere. But
if there isn’t a weighing-machine there is a
Japanese garden with busts of Empire
builders, a Pompadour retiring-room, a
Futurist ditto and a Butterfly ditto ditto.
All the same, when this Letter builds
a picture theatre it is going to put all the
luxury around the cheap-ticket patrons. I hey
at any rate pay always and in hard coin.
It is told of Hugh I). Mclntosh that when
he was running the Tiv. his first box-office
query was always the same, “Well, how s
the gallery?” If that was all right up to
the third night, Hugh D. knew the show
was on a good thing, and immediately
stretched out his hand for a fresh Corona
and cabled Hatton Gardens for another hand-
ful of diamonds.
Flowers worked into gigantic horseshoes,
shields, anchors and keys were scattered al!
about the foreground. They came from, the
picture brotherhood of America, England
and even Berlin. Dan Carroll, from the
Prince Edward, sent the biggest horseshoe
of all.
All the Sydney that is interested in
Women’s Movements knew Mrs. Bogue Lutt-
man. But the fine erect old lady will face
audiences no more; the scholarly hand will
write' no more articles on the political ques-
tions which were so vital to her. Mrs. Bogue
Luffman died at Queanbeyan last week,
being 84. She was, up to 1921, the president
and organising secretary of the Womens
Reform League, in which office she succeeded
Mrs. Molyneux Parkes. A clever journalist,
the lady was for some time editor of the
Women’s Voice, the official organ of the
League. Latterly many discerning articles
on the work of the League of Nations
appeared from her pen; and before coming
to Australia ?>O-odd years ago she was, as
Laura M. Lane, the author of several novels.
Animal lovers will cast a kindly eye on
the girl in this Dayne picture. She is
Margaret Allen, and she is working hard as
secretary for
the R.S.P.C.A.
Ball on June
28. Already
the Went-
worth is nearly
booked out for
this popular
appeal, and to
help expenses
Margaret and
her committee
are running a
dog show at
Rona, the E.
W. Knox
home, at Belle-
v u e Hill.
Even if a dog
doesn’t belong
t o Sydney’s
Four H u n-
dred, he can
enter.
Jf guffer from logg of ap p e tite, try a
us At Maatsuyker they are hungry
long and flyin g-man Moir. who, with
7; 1 u - y Trudno- Corns
f t wue . sta ndinginthe middfe of the
t wo r tli ballroom just before he was
"™ off to the vice-regal board, told tins
£Xr t wo things: first, that at Cape Don he
h;1(l a terri | e hunger upon him; second,
h l } a moBt certainly had not said he would
™ at n | again. Owen is of the same mind
™ partucr . Mrs. uim was at this
p w jth i ler flying man, and Tvingsford
Smith sat closely.. Secretary Blackburn
, j busy time touring cargoes of balloons
Kl ll( , on y e hand and lion-hunters in the
J“ h “ Th ba li o ons were for all the tables;
converged on the one where
ge and owen W ere trying in vain to get
a Sll ack
" ' c , „ , , £ ~ , . ,
The roof of the ballroom had fruited into
clusters of green a.nd rose and purple bal-
loons. Like the vintage of some fairy-tale
vine, these cascaded and trickled down upon
the dancers towards early morning. lhe
atmosphere was as featherweight as those
plump blobs of color bobbing along the ceil-
ing. The G.-G. had another night-out with-
out his Vice-reine, who is still more or less
indoorish with the ’flu. Near him sat nice
Mrs George Hartman and Captain Geoftrey
Hughes’s alert lady; the latter was a whirl
of tucked black georgette, while Mrs. Hart-
man wore chiffons the shade of a clear sky
on a winter’s morning.
As Keith Smith’s lady danced, the ends of
her pink chiffons churned the air till the
scallop at the back looked like a little, agi-
tated pink fish. Brigadier Lloyd’s smile and
Mrs. Lloyd’s black laces were features of the
night. Mrs. Ulm, too, has a smile to be
remembered. She wore hers above cyclamen
taffetas fringed with pale blue tulle. Mrs.
John Garlick was there with her Commis-
sioner. The U.S. Trade Commissioner cast
an eye over the flying gathering i with a look
that seemed to say: "If Henry Ford made
aeroplanes, what a thanksgiving dinner Uncle
Sain might have!” Dr. Geordie . Hamilton
was another flying man who rallied to the
sign of the Golden Wings that soared on an
azure field across the front of the balcony.
Others to be noted were Mrs. W. Shiers, in
white georgettes splashed with black and
scarlet, and Mrs. Litchfield, in spreading
black taffetas.
“Mind your P’s,” says Marie Rosenfeld, the
pretty little amateur actress in this photo-
graph; and
more especially
on the 15th,
17th and 18th
of this month
On those dates
“T h e Prince
who was a
Piper,” “The
Pate h work
Q u i 11” and
“The Pagoda
o f Flowers”
will be pre-
sented at the
Con s e i- v a-
t o riu m by
young things
anxious to help
the C. of E.
Homes at Car-
lingford. Marie
plays in “The
Pate h work
Quilt.” Maine
de Chair is the Princess to the Prince. The
Pagoda has a special chorus of 20 and a
ballet of 10, the dances for which are being
arranged by Mrs. Venour Nathan and Alice
Parkes. Bonnie Appleton and Rita Cullen
Ward are throwing in a jig for good measure.
Harold Watch is producing the whole. A
bouncing cheque for the Homes should be
the outcome.
Audrey Southerden, of Stratlifield, one of
the few brides of last week, drove up to
St. Philip’s on Church Hill, on an afternoon
that might have happened in midsummer, to
become Mrs. Neville Chisholm Sendall, of
Goulburn. Bishop D’Arcy Irvine made the
transfer. Long, tight-fitting sleeves of cob-
webby lace and a very irregular skirt char-
acterised the wedding frock of soft white
satin. Over this flowed an enveloping tulle
veil which swirled out into a foam of train.
Sister Marjorie and cousin Sybil Ryrie
’maided in rose chiffon frocks and apple-
green shoes. Toasts were drunk at Petty’s
hotel, where the bride’s parents, Mr. and
Mrs. W. E. Southerden, did the right thing
by a great number of guests.
Nora Cassidy, of Centennial Park, was
handed by brother .Jack to Dr. E. Armstrong
at the altar of St. Francis’s in Paddington
one night last week. She exchanged vows in
a souffle of tulle and silk net embroidered in
silver. Her sister, Mrs. Newman Manion,
and her groom’s sister, Kathleen, followed the
train, the one in pale pink, the other in
water-green chiffons. The reception was at
the Australia.
“Georgie” Cameron, past Redlands girl and
frequent contributor to The Bulletin and
Mirror, has agreed to seek new literary
pastures in the Solomons. She goes there
as the bride of Cardan Seaton, a 8.-P. plan-
tation manager, also an occasional Bulletin
contributor. Only the two well-known Glen
Innes families attended the wedding, from
which the bridal pair journeyed to Sydney’s
gaiety.
Bernice Mary, second daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. L. G. Phelps, of Summer Hill and late
of Parkes. has turned aside from the lure
of the city and decided to marry a man on
the land —Frank Crowe, manager of Mt.
Cooper station, Nimmitabel.
No wonder the directors of the Women’s
Hospital, Crown-street, arc making a special
appeal for funds to build a ward in memory
of the late Dr. S. 11. MacCullocli! The son
of a grazier, Dr. MacCulloch spent his child-
hood on his father’s station on the Bogan,
Educated at Sydney Grammar, he obtained
his medical degree at Edinburgh, was an
authority on obstetrics and examiner in this
subject at the University and lecturer to
nurses and students. He practised in Syd-
ney for over 50 years, and for 35 years, up
to the time of his death, supervised in an
honorary capacity the medical work of the
Crown-street hospital, and made his last
round of the wards only a few days before
his death.
The first public appearance of new knight
Kelso King and his lady was at the Empire
Society's monthly kettledrum in its own
Bligh-strcet fastness. The Hugh Denisons,
as usual, did the honors. She in her favor-
ite cigar-browns. The lovable lady whose
evening it was for congratulations was clothed
in black cloth rich of texture and impec-
cable as to cut. Iceland poppies and wattle
exchanged the pollen of gossip while -Vturiel
O’Malley and composer Budden Morris
played and sang.
Talking about souvenirs recalls that every
table was plucked bare almost before the
second dance at the Mona Vale Golf Club's
innings at the Ambassadors last week. There
had been quite a lot of thought given to
detail, too. Each table had its set of golf
balls in barley-sugar, one table was laid
out as a putting-green, and there were minia-
ture caddies and players in every sort of
grotesque attitude. But even as the locust
consumes the green leaf, the souvenirer wiped
up the lot. Even the perfect little toy car
and its driver, won in the parade of motor-
cars, disappeared from the side of its fair
winner. However, on the committee promis-
ing to buy her another she wiped the tear
from her eye and was ready to try her skill
in catching ping-pong balls that showered
from the roof at about midnight.
“The cloth on the table,” said Dr. Mary
Booth at the luncheon of the Anzac Fellow-
ship of Women, “is from the Australia!”
“Gosh!” muttered one incorrigible—“even
the doctor has succumbed to the souvenir
habit,” Dr. Mary promptly added that the
cloth was from the sunken warship and not
the hotel, and was the gift of Mrs. Robert
Hardy Douglas. There were garlands of
rosemary about the walls of the Stores grill-
room to accompany the annual eating. Min-
ister for Education Drummond and Mrs.
Drummond and singer Dorothy Helmrich were
the guests of honor. There were references
to happy days in the old Soldiers’ Club, and
there was a suggestion from Dr. Mary to
celebrate Anzac Day by a great music festi-
val. But wouldn’t that help to push the
day into the dreaded net of commercialised
sport? After all, Australians are Aus-
tralians, and too much attention to the
scales would just naturally turn their minds
to weights-for-age.
Three impressive wreaths, the dark of the
closely-woven laurel-leaves shot by a spray
of golden wattle, have been the object of
many a recent pilgrimage to Jeans’. They
are replicas of those sent by the State Gov-
ernment with the little company of the Bara-
dine’s passengers who are making Gallipoli
the starting-point of their tour of the war
zones. One of the wreaths will be left on
Gallipoli; another goes to the Arc de Tri-
omplie; the last will rest on the Cenotaph
in Whitehall. Among the passengers making
the journey for remembrance sake are two
of those faithful army sisters who have been
on the staff of the soldier hospital at Rand-
wick since 1919. The nurses, Sisters E.
Garven and Netta Murphy, are both Royal
Red-Crossers. Six months’ leave of absence
without pay is what a grateful Repatriation
Department allows them. However, they
take with them in the old kitbag a stack of
good wishes and memories of many happy
parties.
Longueville staged the first welcome-home
party to flying-men Moir and Owen. Whale
Rock, the home of the Allen McTavishes, was
flung wide to 70-or-so friends of the Cape
Don rediscoverers. Poinsettia spilled its
autumn wine, and Chinese lanterns bloomed
like fantasies among the tree-tops in honor
of the occasion, and the hostess did the
moment proud in black lace. Mrs. Car-
michael, who came with her nephew, Flight-
Lieutenant Moir, found a bouquet straight
from the garden waiting for her.
The Josef Ivretsclimanns have gone into
the nest just vacated by the Lyceum Club.
This very nice music circle has never had a
home for its grand piano before. Now the
drawing-room of 114 Hunter-street embraces
it, and turns a cosy smile upholstered in
blue and gold upon it. Mrs. Bain Scott
was the first hostess at the new address.
It takes the Palais at Moore Park to pro-
vide suitable background for the big Masonic
Ball. There is something rococo about its
decorations that fits in with the regalia of
the brethren and the long arch of roses
under which a great covey of debs, flutters
every year to seek the vice-regal accolade.
Lady de Chair gave it with her usual smile
to last week’s fledglings, who then tried their
wings in a waltz reserved for them and
their partners. Lady de Chair mingled the
deep blue of the sapphire and splashes of
gold in her graceful frock, and was bravely
escorted to her box by Pipers Burrell and
Robertson. Son Grahame aided. Mrs.
Lewis Packer, who presented the debs., wore
black lace on a gold foundation ; and Mrs.
Dyson Austen, wife of the Superintendent
of the Order in N. S. Wales, proved the
smartness of black and silver lame.


f'JL
H
V
&
iCOOKTOVW
fiLii
11^
WYN
YwATEift
m
TWNSVILLt
St'>
TENNANTSCK
%
O J_LO
I-C',
y.\
V'
I
UNO
S \
o V VO
\\W PERTH
x V)
sYuHLY
ADELAIDE
x
V
>i) V^do
ELBOURN
'.6
- r*5*>
•'V
BBISBANI
It must be good
to be so popular
HOBAHT
1,314 miles of REX-PYE
You could walk on REX-PYE tins
from Brisbane to Tennant’s Creek,
from Sydney to Cooktown, from
Melbourne to Ingham, from Adelaide
to Daly Waters, from Perth nearly
to Wyndham, or from Hobart to
Bundaberg; for in the comparatively
short time since we first invented the
recipe for REX-PYE and placed this
choice delicacy before the people of
Australia, 15,974,345 lib tins and
3,031,614 %\b tins have been eaten*
Place these REX-PYE tins touching,
side by side, and they stretch 1,314
miles.
REX-PYE certainly is good to so
popular. It is the finest meat in the
the world.
Put Quality before Cheapness,
Always say REX-PYE.
LPX
REX-PYE
In lib. and %lb. hygienic cans
CGITT JONES PTY. LTD.
(Division of United Provisions Ltd.)
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon


Tried
For more than 136 years public
opinion has endorsed the value of
Rowland’s Macassar Oil as a means
of keeping the hair in perfect con-
dition and preventing thin or grey
hair.
In bottles, of
C h e m i sts,
Stores and
Hair dressers.
Bed for dark
hair; golden
for fair or
grey hair.
Macassar OH
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.1.,
ENGLAND. C.T.P.G7.
Accommodation
160.
Central,
Comfortable,
Convenient,
5 Mts. G.P.O,
Excellent
Cuisine,
Billiards,
Dancing.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TARIFF:
£3/3/- to
£4/4/-
Weekly,
U/6 to 13/6.
Room & B’fast,
8/6 to 9/6
FL2034
F 3575
Daily,
Food
Bee. Trade Harr,
Light food for the aged.
With advancing years, the
need for food which is suit-
ably light yet strength-
giving and sustaining is
imperative. No food com-
bines these qualities so
happily as Benger’s Food,*
as medical men agree.
Send for Bender’s Booklet, post free.
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd ,
350, George Street, SYDNEY,.
S>2 Macleay St.
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT
(Located within the City Boundary 3 seven
minutes from G.P.0. )
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 150 Rooms, is now open and
features Two-, Three- and Four-
room Suites, each with Bath; also
Single and Double Rooms. Central
Heating, Running Water and
’Phones installed in each room.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views.
Weekly inclusive tariff,
from £5/5/-
Daily, from £1
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines) ; Tele-
graphic address: “Fifmac,” Syd-
ney.
Melbourne
Chatter.
The fashion in raincoats, which lately
became very bright and smart owing to the
advent of waterproof materials in divers
colors, is undergoing another change. Leather
in gay hues is now the correct wear. A
great variety of these new coverings
appeared at the V.It.C. meeting—bright red,
vivid blues and all tones of brown —for the
weather was chilly and promised to be damp.
The style seems to have been copied from
the aviator’s rig-out, but wherever it came
from it has many advantages. The leather
coats look smart, no matter how dire the
deluge, and they are very popular with femi-
nine golfers. The fair player tops her
jumper suit with a short coat of cured hide,
which is now more favored than the softer
suede. Some sports combine tweed and
leather, a bodice of leather being allied to
a skirt of blending woollen material.
Having met with a motor-car accident the
previous day, Mrs. W. R. Burston, lion. sec.
of St. Vincent’s Nurses’ Association’s annual
dance, carried out her duties at No. 9 on
Saturday night with her left arm in a sling.
There were 200 at the hop, proceeds of
which go to the endowment fund for the
room for invalided nurses. Mrs. C. L. Kimp-
ton, the president, was there in ring velvet
patterned in grey, red and blue, and the
hon. treas., Miss A. Cavanagh, wore pale
pink with a tracery of glitter. Red satin
shoes were in favor. Mrs. Grantley Shelton
combined such footwear with a peach-pink
frock, and Dr. Esme Anderson linked her
paii' with a lime-yellow georgette and lace
gown that featured the bustle bow effect.
Surgeon Hugh Devine and his wife, the
John Kennedys, the Brian Fosters, and
numerous others of the medical profession
were there, and a group of ministering
angels included Nurse Ann Cain* whose
green frock sparkled with gold sequins.
At the Victoria League’s tea party last
week Mrs. I. H. Moss, the much-travelled
president of the N.C.W., who was one of the
hostesses, described some of her oversea
experiences. The Grice lady, Mrs. E. W.
Outhwaite, Mrs. Rupert Greene and Mrs.
Arthur Norman were others who did honors.
Dr. Stawell’s lady received many congratu-
lations upon the elevation of her hus-
band to knighthood. The league will shift
its home to the Auditorium Buildings in
Collins-streot next month.
Acting-Governor Irvine looked the part as
he held the levee in Queen’s Hall, Parliament
House, last week. The gold-laced official
dress suited him. Most of those who came
for the handshake seemed to be desirous
of paying a tribute to our home-gtown Gov-
ernor. He completed this year his half-
century in Victoria, having come from the
Old Dart when he was a stripling of 21 in
1879. Probably Irvine, was surprised to find
how many he knew of the several hundred
who attended. The Law was particularly
well represented—High Court and Supreme
Court Judges, Federal Attorney-General
Latham and State Attorney-General Mac-
farlan, and no end of Costs-cliasers of both
branches of the profession. It took half an
hour to get through the function.
Pink carnations and ruby-tinted foliage
trailed over the luncheon table at JMenzies
private dining-room when the committee and
medical staff of the Women’s Hospital said
good-bye to Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Brookes
on the eve of their departure for the U.S.A.
Mrs. Brookes, as president of the W.H., had
to murmur thanks for some lovely gifts.
From an Australian-viewpoint the most
beautiful show running in Melbourne at pre-
sent is Beale and Co.’s collection of works
of art in Australian timbers at the Town
Hall. Here the rose mahogany of N.S.W.,
the elegant walnut and maple of Queensland
and the lovely blackwood of Victoria are
shown made up in suites of furniture, panels,
doors, wardrobes, desks, tables, mantles and
all the other household requisites calling for
durable wood. Rose mahogany plywood is
shown, figured with a unique and beautiful
grain. It polishes exquisitely. There are
also surface veneers of rare beauty, worthy
of comparison with the work of such famous
craftsmen as Chippendale, Ilepple-White
and Sheraton.
A very successful party was staged at
the Town Hall by Mrs. James Alston, senior
vice-president of the Women’s Hospital, to
give the departing president, Mrs. Herbert
Brookes, an opportunity of taking leave of
representatives from the 37 branches of the
institution’s auxiliaries and others assisting
the Hospital Appeal. Gathered about the
tea-tables all aglow with the last of the
season’s gladioli were fully 1200 women with
just a smattering of men. Mrs. Brookes,
whose nut-brown frock was covered with a
bottle-green fur-collared coat, did a great
deal of handshaking. Mayor Buxton stepped
in to pay his tribute, also Mrs. Percy Rus-
sell and George Allan. Tenor Walter Kirby
and some of his pupils sang in the lulls
between tea and -speeches, Hamilton Bate-
man’s fiddle was heard and Mrs. D. Barry
was accompanist. Mayoress Buxton, Mrs.
D, A. Skene, Mrs. George Bangridge, Herbert
Brookes, J. 1). Howie and H. J. Martin were
on the platform.
Moonee Valley R. C. offered enjoyment to
sports on Saturday, when a large, well-
wrapped gathering watched the racing, lhe
usual patrons were in the members’ en-
closure, most of the womenfolk wearing furs
with tweed coats, or fur coats and the popu-
lar small felt hat.
Pianist Brailowsky had to face two recep-
tions here before his first recital at the
Town Hall on Saturday night. The first
kettle-boiling was at the Uni. Con., and the
other, held at the Lyceum Club, was the first
social meeting of the just-formed Musical
Association of Vic. as well as a greeting to
the Russian player. The president of the
M.A.V., Harold Elvins, extended a hand of
welcome to the visitor. Brailowsky returned
thanks gracefully and modestly, and con-
fessed that he didn’t object to ja-zz—so long
as it was “good jazz.”
Melbourne’s musical folk, impressed by
glowing reports from Sydney, took Brailow-
sky on trust and rolled up in full force to
his first recital at the Town Hall. The
favorable verdict of the Harbor City was
confirmed. Fritz Hart, whom Pavlova has
called “My most appreciative audience,” de-
serted the dancer’s performance for her
countryman’s that evening, and Mrs. Hart,
the Allen lady, Mrs. Singer from Maoriland,
Mrs. Felix Lloyd, and the Misses YYimpole
were also listeners.
At the Melbourne Grammar Chapel one
day last week, Francis Una, only daughter
of the Joseph Nathans, of St. Ivilda-road,
wedded Geoffrey A. Christian, youngest son
of the R. Christians, of Malvern. Creamy lace
that matched the tone of her veil of old
Limerick was inlet into the white sa-tm
gown and train of the bride, and there was
a gleam of pearl embroidery. Three atten-
dant ’maids wore golden-brown lace frocks
of uneven length, with bustle bows of orange-
hued satin, their coiffures being swathed in
velvet in Oriental mode. Guests gathered
at No. 5 afterwards.
Stanley G. Sowden, for some time man-
aging editor of Truth, departed during the
week for Perth, where he joins the Daily
News as associate-editor. A son of news-
paper-knight William Sowden, of. South
Australia, his first executive job was with Syd-
ney’s Labor Daily. He was then news editor
of the Daily Telegraph, and later joined
the management of Truth. He is a golfer,
and a box of balls supplemented the fare-
well good wishes of a bunch of his pals.
Here is Dr. Marion Phillips, one of the
many women
who now
occupy seats
in the House
of Commons.
Standing
as a Labor
candidate, she
topped the poll
in the Sunder-
1a n d electo-
rate. A gradu-
ate of Mel-
bourne Uni.,
she is a great
social welfare
worker, and is
a sister of M.
M. Phillips,
Master of
Equity in this
State, and of
Mr s. G. A.
Jacobs, of Mal-
vern.
The Old Grammarians’ Club has acquired
pretty rooms above the gilded Regent
Theatre. Their next-door neighbors are ex-
students of the Hermitage Grammar School.
Comfy chairs and flowered cretonnes strike
a homey note, carried further by etch-
ings and other pictures lent by members.
Miss Gilman Jones declared the cheery rooms
open at a house-warming party last week.
The Grice lady and her /daughter Mrs.
Scriven, the Tliorold Finks, Janet Winter
Irving, Mrs. Hudson Eastwood, Mrs. Hugh
Murdoch, Mrs. A. Gunn and Dr. A. Robert-
son’s wife were among the first nighters at
His Majesty’s on Saturday when “Don Quix-
ote” was the chief item of the Pavlova
programme. The elaborately-staged ballet
with its Spanish setting, enchanted forest
and Dulcinea’s garden of living human blos-
soms, was welcomed with delight. The white
gee-gee of the melancholy knight and the
donkey of his cheerful companion were
touches highly enjoyed.
The Society of Australian Authors, the
membership of which has grown in two years
from 14 to 100, had its second annual dinner
on Saturday night at the Langham Cate,
where distinguished painters and musicians
and journalists of the local press rubbed
shoulders. Bernard Cronin, who presided, re-
ported that the output of the members dur-
ing the year numbered 15 novels, four child-
ren’s books, many sketches and short plays
and some scientific works. Carnival caps
were removed while the health of George
Bex was honored, and then knight John
Quick and W. A. Slium proposed the toast
of “The Visitors,” one of whom was Dr.
Souter, of Adelaide. Other outsiders were
the Quick lady, pianist Una Bourne, painter
Jorgensen and John Shirlow. Among tne
authors were such well-known Austral - an
writers as Mrs. _ JEneas Gunn, Georgia
Rivers, Myra Morris and Louis Esson.
The girl with the soulful eyes is Cora
O’Farrell, who has embarked on a musical
career. She
won a Mary
C a mpbell
scholarship at
the Albert-
street Con.
and made her
first profes-
sional appear-
ance in the
chorus of the
Firm’s g r a nd
opera co. of
last year. She
makes her
debut as a
soloist in a
recital at the
Assembly Hall
to-night; and
hopes a little
later to have
the , opportu-
nity’ of study-
ing abroad.
Her assets are intelligence, a voice of un-
usually extended compass, and a good musical
grounding—she’s a violinist as well as a
singer.
Most decorative is Madame Demarquette,
known professionally as Joy Macarden, who
came from Paris on Friday by the Commis-
saire Hamel with her husband to join the staff
of the Uni. Con., where she will teach sing-
ing and form a grand opera class. Golden
haired, with a beautiful complexion, she has
a delightful personality and is a* very fine
linguist. Of Dutch birth, she has appeared
at the Paris Opera House and Covent Garden ;
she made her debut at the Royal Theatre,
Denmark, and studied with Madame Mar-
ches! in Paris. She is a vegetarian; and
won’t wear furs of any kind. She had her
first glimpse of Australia at Perth, winch
pleased both herself and her husband exceed-
ingly.
One of the Australian artists who are
represented in this year’s Royal Academy
show in London is Agnes Paterson (Mrs.
S. J. Davis), who lives in a picturesque
bungalow on Riversdale-road near Wattle
Park. A miniature by her was accepted by
the Academy. The lady is self-taught. For
15 or 16 years she has plodded along, and it
was not until last year that she sent her
work into the Victorian Artists’ show and
got excellent notices. Urged on by her
fellow artist Esther Paterson, who is no
relation, she was at length persuaded to
try her luck with the R.A.
Dr. Earle Page has, in addition to gaining
the right to put P.C. after his name, also
now the right to wear a blue satin dress and
cloak at a Coronation. The other living
Australian Privy Councillors are the Rt.
Hons. S. M. Bruce, Hughes, Cook, Watt,
Pearce and Adrian Ivnox. Barton, Reid,
Fisher, Forrest, Turner and Kingston were
all P.C.’s; Deakin and Watson were the
only Prime Ministers who did not take the
title, and only one Governor-General —
Tennyson—has failed to display it. The
Prime Minister, in addition, has the most
exclusive honor in the Empire^—he is a
Companion of Honor, which he shares with
Stanley Baldwin and three or four others.
Although Margaret Bondfield was Parlia-
mentary Secretary to the previous British
Labor Ministry, her accession to full Cabinet
rank in this one (as Minister for Labor)
makes her the first woman in the Empire to
reach such a political stature. She will
also be the first feminine P.C. As far as
women’s work is concerned, at any rate, the
lady will be able to bring much first-hand in-
formation to her job; she tried occupation
after occupation to learn the conditions in
which women work.
Commander. G. Williams, who is acting as
locum during the absence of Captain Davis,
came from Sydney during the week, accom-
panied by his good-looking wife. They have
taken up their residence at Tasma, Parlia-
ment-place.
The Federal Government’s payment to the
State Government for its past occupation of
State Parliament House is being spent on
improvements and additions to the building.
In preparation for this work there has been
a great clearing-out of cellars and store-
rooms, and some long-forgotten treaenr
have been unearthed. Brought to light wi
the dust ofl a quarter of a century on tne
crystal drops were three magnificent cna -
deliers, used in the days of gas llluminati .
The largest of the three has been hung in tn
library, and the two smaller ones wil e
given locations later on. Originally these
chandeliers decorated the Legislative. Counci
Chamber. When the news of the find was
bruited abroad a dealer offered iooUU 101
the big one, but there was nothing doin e .
Amongst the “colonial pioneers” were the
Howats, who came from Ayrshire. Oowat
the First, a foreman carpenter, earned los.
a week, and prospered so well that in low
he built a fine home in William-street, North
Melbourne, in the district that is now loo-
rak. His son William, a lad of 14 when
the house was built, still lives there the
only surviving member of his family, voi
years he has been in charge of the Clarae
estate, and has earned modest fame as a
curio collector. Years ago the collection
grew too big for the dwelling, and Howat
the Second added rooms with quaint wind-
ing stairways and unexpected cupboards, and
there are now 19 apartments. One ot tne
treasures is an urn-shaped Dresden vase on
a bronze pedestal. It was presented by
Napoleon to the Sultan of Turkey. Nap is
represented as the conquerpr at Austerlitz.
surrounded by his marshals. A large N
is part of the design. This work of art.
looted from the Sultan’s palace during the
Turkish political revolution, found its way
to France. The French Government claimed
it, but it was smuggled out of the country
to Maoriland and came from thence to Aus-
tralia. The vase now has as near neighbors
two immense specimens of Cloisonne ware,
presented by the Chinese community of Mel-
bourne in recognition of Mr. Howat's ser-
vices on their behalf before they obtained
consular assistance. A grandfather’s clock,
on the face of which is painted a scene from
Burns’s “Cottar’s Saturday Night,” is. a
family heirloom. It was sold in Ayrshire,
with other household effects, before the
migration, and when Howat the Second
grew affluent he had it traced and sent to
him. A library of over 20,000 books, ancient
and modern, is part of the Howat collection.
The owner’s intentions regarding the disposal
of his treasures upon his demise —he’s get-
ting near the end of a long road —are his
secret.
Our city organist, Dr. W. G. Price, will
reach the retiring age on February 1. By
coincidence, this is the anniversary, too, ot
the fire which destroyed the hall and organ
in 1925. It is 23 years since Dr. Price com-
menced his civic duties here, bringing
with him the recommendation of Sir Fred-
erick Bridge, of Westminster Cathedral, and
Dr. Collinson, of Edinburgh Cathedral, and
selected by them from 50 candidates. Almost
every morning, now, he is to be found study-
ing the intricacies of the all-but-completed
new instrument, which will be. first heard at
a special charity recital early in July. When
he retires from the service of the city fathers,
the musician will continue his work as
lecturer, teacher and examiner at the Uni.
Violets are unusually large and prolific
this year. The flower shops are full of them,
and they are vended in trays .at street-
corners. Most women find them irresistible,
and one feels out of the fashion if a purple
bouquet as big as a cabbage isn’t weighing
down a coat lapel.
Ex-Senator Turley, for whom the flags at
Federal Parliament House lately flew T half-
mast, was the first Labor man to be President
of the Senate. He was the first President who
sat in the Chair without a wig—though,
except for a sparse fringe of hair, he was
bald and could have done with one. His
portrait was painted without the curls, and
for years it hung in Queen’s Hall between
two bewigged Presidents. It is now in the
basement of the Canberra House.
The wife of Premier McPherson —she died
three months ago—left £69,OCM), the bulk of it
to her husband and her three . children.
A house at Cliatswood (N.S.W.) is to pass
to her brother, Franklin Jackson, and his
family.
This week miniatures, water-colors and
decorative lacquer pieces by Bess Golding
are on view at the Decoration Gallery in
Collins-street. Mrs. Norman Brookes has
gathered the artist under her wing, and is in-
ducing our naicest to take an interest in
the show.
Barrister J. S. Meagher, of Wattle-road,
Hawthorn, lost his only daughter Mary a
few days ago. She is mourned by a large
circle of friends, including former school-
mates at the Catholic Ladies’ College, Bast
Melbourne, and the Sacred Heart Convent,
Malvern. A few months ago she accom-
panied her dad to Malaya, where he has big
interests in tin. Five of her brothers, Leo,
Frank, Luxford, Wilbur and Vincent, are
well-known metropolitan professional men.
One is a lawyer, two are doctors, one an
accountant and one a chemist.
Many a welcoming hand was extended to
Mr. and Mrs. E. N. Waters at the V.R.C.
King’s Birthday meeting. They had just
returned from a sojourn in Europe.


sd
GOVERNMENT INSURANCE OFFICE OF N.S.W.
THE MINT BUILDING, MACQUARIE STREET, SYDNEY.
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION INSURANCE.
Discount to Policyholders.
A DISCOUNT OF TWENTY (20) PER
CENT, will be granted by the office to holders
of insurance (other than in respect of Coal-
mining) current on the 30th day of June,
1929; to be calculated on the adjusted
premiums for fully-completed annual periods
of insurance so current.
Allowable as deduction from premiums for
the renewal of insurance following annual
premium adjustment.
THE OBJECTIVE OF THE OFFICE IS TO PROVIDE EMPLOYERS WITH
INSURANCE AT LOWEST POSSIBLE COST.
PROMPT QUOTATION OF RATES UPON REQUEST.
MUTUAL INSURANCE WITH YOUR OWN OFFICE.
W. N. McFARLANE, General Manager. (F 4826)
The Well-known Farming and Grazing Property
“WYEMO”
BY AUCTION ON THE PREMISES,
ON SATURDAY, JUNE 29th, AT 3 P.M.
UNDER instructions from QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES LIM-
ITED, BRISBANE, as Trustee of the Estate of C. A. Munro
deceased, late of Arcot, Texas. Situated on the Dumaresq
River, 7 miles from Yellarbon; 18 miles from Yetman; 30 miles from
Texas; 28 miles from Inglewood; 40 miles from Goondiwindi. Area,
8839 acres, more or less, including 3865 ACRES FREEHOLD, and
4974 ACRES LEASEHOLD.
The leaseholds comprise—G.F. 940, 2000 acres, expiring Ist July,
1949; G.F. 1453, 238 acres expiring Ist July, 1949; and G.F. 1861,
2685 acres, expiring Ist October, 1944—a1l at an annual rental of
per acre.
IMPROVEMENTS: Subdivided into 14 paddocks, fencing mostly 6
wires. Portion of boundary netted; most of the property is ring-
barked and approximately 400 acres cleared —250 having been under
wheat and 80 have grown tobacco successfully; 10 acres now being
under lucerne and about 60 tons of lucerne in hayshed. Homestead
of 6 rooms; also three large sheds, dairy and butcher shop; cow
bails, horse boxes, etc. Complete stock yards. 500 head of Cattle at
a fixed price to be offered with the property.
WATER: Watered by 4 miles frontage to Dumaresq River and
on the back by lagoons and 2 wells with tanks, mills and troughing.
Water obtainable at from 15 to 20 feet.
REMARKS: “Wyemo” is an attractive sheep or cattle property and
is carrying a good body of grass as the result of splendid rains for
some time past.
TERMS: One-third cash, balance in equal instalments over six
years with interest at per cent payable half-yearly.
PARTICULARS OF PLANT FOR SALE ON APPLICATION.
For further Particulars apply:
H. H. JENNINGS, AUCTIONEER, TEXAS
For Sale.
pOR SALE.—Within 50 miles of Sydney,
Farm and Orchard, 16 acres, good house,
north-easterly slope, overlooking ocean.
Suitable for early bean- and tomato-grow-
ing. Particulars: CHAPMAN, c/o Bulle-
tin Office.
Public Notice.
JJORSHAM, Victoria.—lf this should meet
the eye of any former residents of Hor-
sham, please write Secretary, Horsham
Reunion, October 19 to 26, 1929, Box 210,
Horsham P.O.
Missing Friends.
JOHN FRANCIS WALLACE. —If this
J should meet the eye of John Francis Wal-
lace, formerly of Wurruk Wurruk, near Sale,
in Victoria, he is requested to communicate
with Messrs. STAVELEY & STIRLING.
Solicitors, Foster Street, Sale, from whom
he will heaT to his advantage.
CMITH (TOM DICKINSON), working at
Small Arms Factory, Litligow, 1917;
in 1912 residing at 126 Flinders Street,
Melbourne, will hear something to his advan-
tage if he (or any person with information
as to his present address) will write
STANTON, ATKINSON & BIRD, Solici-
tors, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
INFORMATION IS REQUIRED concern-
-1 ing one WILLIAM SMITH-GREEN,
who was bom about 1822, and came to New
Zealand about 1855 as a Private in the 65tli
Regiment. Married on 23rd April, 1867, at
Wellington, New Zealand, to Mary Alex-
ander, who died at Wellington, Bth Novem-
ber, 1878. It is understood William Smith-
Green left New Zealand for Australia in
that year. Anyone who can furnish infor-
mation concerning the said William Smith-
Green or place and date of his death is
requested to kindly communicate with the
District Public Trustee, Wellington, New
Zealand.
Jjegal Notice,
STATUTORY NOTICE TO NEXT OF KIN
RE ERNEST BARTSCH, late of North
Quay, Brisbane, but formerly of Rock-
hampton, Townsville and Innisfail, in
the State of Queensland, Engine-driver.
Deceased. .
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons
claiming to be next of kin of the above-
named ERNEST BARTSCH, late of North
Quay, Brisbane, but formerly of Rockhamp-
ton, Townsville and Innisfail, in the State of
Queensland, deceased, who died on or about
the twenty-first day of December, a.d. 1928,
at South Brisbane, in the said State, are
hereby required to forward proof of their
relationship to the Public Curator, Brisbane,
on or before the Thirtieth day of August,
1929. And that after the expiration of the
last-mentioned date the Public Curator will
proceed to distribute the assets of the said
deceased amongst the parties entitled thereto,
having regard only to the claims of which
lie shall then have had notice.
DATED this First day of June, 1929.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Official Solicitor to the Public Curator,
Brisbane.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN SURFACE
MARKERS.
The proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 12094/28 is prepared to negotiate for
the sale of its rights in the above, or for
the granting of a license to make, use and
vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from GRIFFITH
AND HASSEL, Patent Attorneys, of 77
CastlereasHh Street. Svdiney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN PUMPS.
The proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 7973/27, is prepared to negotiate for
the sale of its rights in the above, or for
the granting of a license to make, use and
vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from GRIFFITH
AND HASSEIj, Patent Attorneys, of 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
fiptwM frmavffimm-
turn sji/i y$
Sin
SHonoo
COSTS
2 r
SAVES
k
m
m
Mr. Raymond Ellis, the eminent English Operatic
Baritone, from the British National Opera Co.,
is one of the many famous singers who have
expressed their appreciation of Heenzo as a
remedy for ailments of the chest and throat.
Mr. Raymond Ellis writes: “Before returning to
England I feel I must join the many singers who
have placed on record their appreciation of
Heenzo as a remedy for coughs and colds. After
having proved the goodness of Heenzo, I am
convinced that money could not buy a speedier,
more economical, or more efficient remedy for
soothing sore throats, easing the chest, and
banishing coughs and colds.
“Heenzo is a boon to those whose professions
demand that they keep free of chest and throat
ailments; therefore I am carrying a plentiful
supply on my return to England. When I need
more Heenzo you shall hear from me, ‘via
Beam.’
Each bottle of Heenzo makes a family supply equal to £/’s worth
of the usual ready-made-up remedies for chest and throat ailments .
should be used in every home
PUMPS WE MAKE AND GUARANTEE
fsd
fsd
The wide range of Billabong Pumps Our Own
Manufacture—meets most of the Pumping Needs
of the Farm, the Home and the Factory. Cor-
rectness of design, High-grade Materials and
Expert Workmanship account for the increasing
popularity of Billabong Pumps throughout the
Commonwealth.
The Billabong Pumps
(Illustrated)
Billabong Cistern Pump
Billabong Low-down Pump
Billabong Semi-rotary Pump
Billabong Centrifugal Pump
Billabong Double-acting Piston Pump
Billabong Hydraulic Ram
For Full Particulars of Billabong Pumps and
Pumping Machinery see our General Pump
Catalog. It is Post Free.
The Kerotin Spray Pump
A splendid little Pump, made of Brass through-
out, and fitted with strong iron foot. Useful for
small Orchards and the Flower Garden, for
applying Limewash or Disinfectants to Fowl
Runs, Cattle Sheds, etc., and when fitted with
a special nozzle the Kerotin becomes a most
reliable Veterinary Pump, and is used exten-
sively by Breeders of Cattle, etc.
Full Particulars and Prices Free on Request.
Agents in all districts.
ax' 7 ■
I NHOf 1
•UllUllillillllllfllr
fNOS'S
Oiiinimimiiii
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
324-330 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.


0 4 9
its
C 5
t
a
/
i
3
£
£
d
A
6158
530
NEW BODY- NEW BEAUTY
NEW BEHAVIOUR
A Product of Chrysler Motors
NEW BODY
The new and exclusive Dodge Brothers
MONO-PIECE BODY is notably roomy—
with wide doors and ample windows. Built
inflexibly on to the wide chassis, it is rigid,
well balanced, and steady riding; door open-
ings and window apertures fashioned out of a
single piece of metal. There are no JOINTS
TO SQUEAK. Tens of thousands of miles of
hard usage will leave this body as tight and as
firm as when new.
NEW BEAUTY-
New and beautifully proportioned, the impres-
sion of bigness with a new degree of grace.
New deep-faced narrow profile radiator, wing
tipped cap. New cowl bar and lamp tie rod.
New one-piece fenders of exclusive Dodge
flare-design. New pattern headlights and
parking lights. Chromium-plated, tarnish-
proof exterior metal parts.
Perfectly matched interior
fi t m e n t s —complete in
every detail.
NEW BEHAVIOR
New, powerful, fleet and competent perform-
ance, almost beyond belief. A masterful
engine cushioned in live-rubber. Massive
seven-bearing crankshaft. Wide-faced trans-
mission gears. Hydraulic four-wheel brakes,
weatherproof. New roller-bearing steering
gear. Lovejoy hydraulic shock absorbers all
around. Tyres generously oversize for easy
riding and increased mileage economy.
GREATER SAFETY -------
Low Centre of Gravity.
The New Six is deliberately designed and built
to increase the margin of safety in motoring.
The exclusive mono-piece body—which
eliminates body sills, automatically lowers the
floor room. Its low centre of gravity reduces
side sway and any tendency to skid. This car
will hold the road at high speed and “corner”
comfortably without that
“dangerous” feeling, whilst
it improves the effective-
ness of the hydraulic brakes
New
Dodge Brothers Six
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales Harden & Johnston, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria . Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane
South Australia . . .
Western Australia .
New Zealand ....
. Waymouth Motor Company, Ltd., Adelaide
. . . Winterbottom Motor Company, Ltd., Perth
...... Northern Automobiles, Ltd., Auckland


i
m
1
111111
■
m
■
m i
n
EXCLUSIVE
DISTINCTIVE
TAILORING
PERFECT CUT
THE FINEST
MATERIALS
AND NEWEST
PATTERNS
MAYFAIR 1870
xfmeu,
LADIES TAILOR A
LONDON
at
19 Princes Street
Hanover Square W. I.
EXTENDS YOU A WELCOME
SPECIALISING IN SUP-
PLYING VISITORS TO
THE "OLD COUNTRY "
WITH TAILORED
CLOTHES SUITABLE
FOR BOTH AUSTRA-
LASIAN AND EUROPE-'
AN WEAR-HOPES FOR
THE PLEASURE OF
YOURVISIT-ASUITTO
PLEASE THE MOST
FASTIDIOUS AT 15 GNS
M
LEIPZIG TRADE FAIR (Twice Yearly), GERMANY
Great International-Leipzig Industries Fair, AUTUMN, 1929.
Samples Fair and Engineering Fair and Building Fair August 25 to 31
Textile Fair August 25 to 28
Shoe and Leather Fair August 25 to 28
Subsequently another big Leipzig International Industries Fair will be held
in Spring, 1930, beginning on March 2, 1930. Letters of introduction and all
particulars gladly given.
LARS G. BRUNDAHL,
’Phones: 84006, MW2201. 6 DALLEY STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
■*4
I
WV
•'V
Modest Pride
the poorest gen-
will not take
tea from heavy, unbeautiful
cups. Her tea service stands
for caste not cost —light, deli-
cate, comely. Shelley Tea
Services are of varied prices
but of one quality: English
Bone China and Shelley
craftsmanship unite to ensure
this. The name of Shelley is
on every piece. There is a pat-
tern to please every lady’s taste
Ask to see the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
CAS£ O* ANY
Nursery Ware
Ly Lucie Attweu
v Hilda Cowham
DohesticWare
Jelly Moulds
obtaining
If any illustration in The Bulled.n tukos
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Aimisenionts.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
vl’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT
SONG.
ROYAL: THIS YEAR OF GRACE.
CRITERION: APPLESAUCE,
PALACE: DRACULA.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELL BE IT Y VA UD EVIL LE.
The World’s Best.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J * MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
ANA PAVLOVA.
ROYAL:
THE FIVE-O’CLOCK GIRL.
Ring’s theatre, Melbourne.
IRENE HOMER in
THE PATSY.
UOYT’S de luxe theatre,
n MELBOURNE.
CULLEN LANDIS and MARIAN NIXON in
HEROES OF THE NIGHT
AND
MABEL POULTON in
THE SILENT HOUSE.
Bald or Grey Heads
often mean Failure
Many a woman has lost, her charm and many a
man his job and popularity through a grey or bald
head! Don’t let the world say you’re getting old
—keep young! Get rid of your grey hairs this
easy way: Get a package of Yi-Glo from the chemist
md rub into the scalp. Vi-Glo contains a new in-
gredient that wakes up the color and growth cells
and quickly brings back young, abundant hair. The
cost is only 3/-, including a special shampoo—very
little to stand between you and popularity. If no
chemist near, send 3/4 to Vi-Glorient Co., Kembla
Building, Sydney, and outfit will reach you by post.
Satisfaction guaranteed.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The Governor had such a big roll-up for
his levee last week that he had to use both
hands in greeting. In the evening his Ex.
had a men’s dinner party at Government
House. During the week, with Lady Good-
win, he went to view Vida Lahey’s pictures
at the Gainsborough gallery.
The races at Ascot drew big crowds. The
weather was bright and cold, and there were
many fine fur coats on the lawn. On the
first day Mrs. Isaac Moore, in black face
cloth and fitch, Mrs. J. H. S. Barnes and
I*. J. O’Shea had friends to tea on the com-
mittee-room verandah. In the evening there
were a number of dinner parties at Lennon’s,
among the entertainers being James McLeod
and Miss McLeod (Melbourne), the Donald
Harrises, Mrs. J. H. S. Barnes and Mrs.
V. D. Bell.
On Brisbane Cup day frocking was less
wintry. Mrs. Isaac Moore again dispensed
tea to a party of friends. Mrs. Levien,
Sydney, wore a black satin coat-frock and
black baku hat. Mrs. Gilbert Wilson also
wore a black satin coat-frock and black fui's.
Mrs. Halford was in amethyst cloth; Mrs.
H’ope Michod chose wistaria georgette,
mounted on black; Mrs. Harray Mort was in
blue; Mrs. Barnes’s (of Canning Downs)
figured crgpe de Chine was touched with
lacquer red ; Mrs. Whittingham wore phan-
tom-red ; Mrs. Willie Kent, cocoa and mastic
kasha; Mrs. Donald Cameron, navy with
strappings of jade, red and gold ; and Mabel
Cowlishaw, black and pink. In the evening
dinners were given at Lennon’s by Lennon
Raws and his lady, the Bridgmans, Colonel
Stodart and Kevin Murphy.
The demure damsel in academic garb is
Leslie Campbell Brown, who graduated at
our Uni. recently with second-class honors
in mental and moral philosophy. As a pupil
of Brisbane
Girls’ Gram-
mar School she
won the Mac-
Ivinley scliolar-
ship three
years ago at
the age of 17,
which took her
to the Univer-
sity, where she
has maintained
a fine record.
Her elder sis-
ter, Kathleen,
also a Queens-
-1 a n d Uni.
graduate, is
now senior
classics mis-
tress at the
Girls’ Gram-
mar. They are
daughters o f
Mr. and Mrs.
G. Campbell Brown, Victoria Lodge, Bris-
bane.
Her Ex. attended the annual summing-up
of the Braille Society. She told the meeting
that she has a sister who is blind and who
does not know Braille. Freda Bage, in deep
terra-cotta with a pretty wallflower-tinted
hat, and Dr. Lockhart Gibson were also
speakers. George Waugh, in the absence of
Naomi Waugh, the secretary, acknowledged
the generosity of helpers of the association.
In the year 1503 books were distributed.
The balance-sheet showed a, credit of over
£6O. Mrs. Owen Cowlishaw was elected pre-
sident, and Mrs. Lockhart Gibson and Mollie
Graham vice-presidents. The Cowley lady
spoke of Miss Waugh’s hard work and deep
interest in the association.
St. Margaret’s Old Girls’ Association had
a dance in All Saints’ Hall, which was
decked with la France roses and festoons of
pink. Supper was on the platform.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Thirteen hundred danced at the Old Times
Ball, and those not in period costume felt
out of it in more senses than one. Genuine
antique frocks, some of them 100 years old,
were extracted from their rosemary- and
lavender-scented cabinets, while “sideboards”
and Dundreary whiskers were sported by
courtly gallants in high stocks and brocaded
coats. A group representing Queen Vic-
toria’s bridesmaids looked charming in white
organdie with pink roses and blue ribbons.
The men of the “Johnny Walker” set, in
scarlet-tailed coats and white knee breeches,
escorted ladies in early Victorian dresses
with frills, rosebuds, fans and coalscuttle
hats. Lady Campion’s white curled wig
topped a period gown of terra-cotta and silver
satin brocade. Eighty-year-old Mrs. Sam
Joore, in black broche and lace, played the
-ame mazurka that she played in 1866 at
the ball given in honor of the Duke of
Edinburgh. Mrs. Arthur Jacoby wore Mrs.
Lee Alnutt’s presentation gown for the last
court held by Queen Victoria; a wonderful
affair of gold brocade, pouffed draperies and
ivory satin front panel and train. Gwen
Clifton was in a pink brocade worn at the
ball given by the Duchess of Richmond the
night before the Battle of Waterloo. Molly
Mahood had a striped silk bridesmaid’s frock
of 50 years ago; Mrs. Compton a primrose
satin redingote, bonnet of gold straw and
purple ribbon. A little straight jacket sur-
mounted Mrs. Drummond’s glac§ creation;
Mrs. Cecil Dent’s 70-year-old street dress was
of black and violet bustled brocade with
chenille fringe, and Mrs. Ned Stirling’s old-
rose muslin that dated back to the 1820’s
had 27 yards in the silver-banded skirt. Mrs.
llunter-Taylor wore her mother’s trousseau
afternoon gown (1871) of grey corded silk
with panniers, bustle and ruby velvet panels.
The Clifton family dug up old portraits and,
faithfully following them, formed an interest-
ing Old Australian set.
A good rally of hardy racegoers braved the
elements for the W.A.T.C. meeting. The
racing was good, but the landscape so dull
the jockeys’ silks were the only bright spots
on the horizon. The Governor’s lady did
her best to relieve the monotony by appear-
ing in a stripey fur coat: Mrs. trawler re-
moved her rainproof to display an almond-
green greatcoat; Neva Hocking and Helen
Murray looked smart in tweeds, and nearly
everyone else was in coat or costume.
Multicolored lights and giant paper dahlias
brightened King’s Park Tennis Club pavilion
for the tournament dance. Promenades on
the lawn were otf, on account of the rain,
and the most popular spot was in front of
the blazing log fire. Supper was served on
small tables, each adorned with a bowl of
fragrant roses. Mrs. Felix Levinson wore
Nile green ring velvet patterned in butter-
cups ; _ Mrs. Reg H’all graced cheery georg-
ettes in tiers: Betty Wood’s beaded ninon
was shaded from flame to maize. Mimosa-
green taffetas and gold lace looked well on
Marjorie Stoddart, and Topsy Hyem’s dark
beauty was enhanced by love-in-the-mist
inariette with vandyked silver lace hemline.
y ln their new Viking Club Rooms the
Women’s Service Guild staged an Empire
Pageant. Mrs. Lawrence introduced the per-
formers and Mayoress Franklin spoke a
few words. Britannia, Scotland, Ireland and
the Dominions were represented, each with
a characteristic song, dance, recitation or
musical solo. Mrs. Browning-Turner
arranged the show and Ethel Anthoncss did
the accompanying. Phyllis Browning-Turner
appeared as Wales, and sister Claudia as
Australia.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Only those who had the luck to strike
the day’s biggest dividend were compensated
for attending the A.R.C. meeting. The
weather was beastly and the v.-r. party ex-
pressed regret, but declined to face the
elements. Mayor and Mayoress Bonython
braved the deluge as an official duty—they
don’t follow the sport. Muriel Hall acted
as hostess for her father, chairman James
Hall, wearing a powder-blue ensemble and
hat to match. Mrs. Bonython favored an
antelope coat with a skunk collar and a fawn
felt hat.
The young matrons’ dance held at the
Maison de Danse, Glenelg, was a great suc-
cess. Half the floor space was reserved
for dancing; the rest for supper. The eight
hostesses stood in a long line to receive, and
made a striking rainbow of color, Mrs. John
Bonython in daffodil yellow; Mrs. Bob Bar-
rett, shrimp pink; Mrs. Gregory Bruer, car-
mine ; Mrs. St. Barne More, cyclamen; Mrs.
J. Lloyd Tolley, flame and diamente; Mrs.
Gordon Taylor, pale pink tulle; Mrs. Ernest
Jolly, pale blue satin; and Mrs. L. Marriott
in pale pink. The Malcolm Aswins’ daugh-
ter Margaret, a handsome girl, was a
debutante in cream georgette embroidered in
a floral design round the skirt, her bouquet
of pink roses being the gift of the matrons.
The “Rio Rita” Ball was entirely success-
ful, over 1400 being present. Organised in
aid of charity, the support given by Gladys
Moncrieff and members of her co. was a
great draw. The majority of the dancers
didn’t arrive until 11 p.m. The theatrical
party came a little later and brought along
their orchestra. Garnet H. Carroll, the
company’s stage manager, provided several
bright cabaret items in addition to songs.
The party did not break up until 3 a.m., and
Adelaide began to feel it was seeing life.
A daughter of knight David Gordon and his
lady, of Unley Park, was married at Stow
Memorial Church to Victor Day. The bride
was in cream velvet trimmed with white
fur, most appropriate to the cold weather.
Her bridesmaid, Elsie Harvey, chose apricot
velvet and a felt hat to match. The bride-
groom is a widower with several small
children.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
This serious little person is Cicely Kelly,
one of Launceston’s most promising singers,
who has lately commenced her studies at the
Melbourne
Uni. Con. Up
till now she
has been
taught by her
mother,
Madame Kelly.
Music is in
her blood; and
at 14 she pro-
duced, private-
ly, an oper-
etta, both lib-
retto and
music of
which she had
composed. She
has sung be-
fore Melba,
who advised a
Europe an
training. The
O ’G r a d y s
were
at her recent concert in -Launceston, when
the proceeds went to the flood relief funds.
Brighton Jockey Club’s meeting was a
cheery affair, to which a fair crowd motored
or went by train from the capital and
enjoyed the picnic. The Tom Lyons family
went up, and the Clives, of Old Beach, Mrs.
Waldemar Wolfhagen. the Alec Websters,
the A. J. Millers, Dr. and Mrs. Y. It.
Ratten, the Bruce Gibsons, the Jock Swans.
Mrs. Claude Boag and the Iluon Walkers
were in the throng.
Newnham Club’s meeting wasn’t as fully
attended as it might have been. The stand
and lawn made a brown study as far as
dressing was concerned, the new shades of
nigger, cocoa and hazel dominating all others
this season.
Winifred Collins, shining light in the
Hobart Repertory Co., where she distin-
guished herself in “Milestones” and “Pyg-
malion,” is adding to her laurels in
Melbourne, where she is now living. She
was east for the leading woman in the Mclb.
Rep. production of “The House with the
Twisty Windows” at the Kelvin Hall.


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRiSBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service* a la Carte
STRICTLY FTRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
11l
SIl
9i S ■
Address Manager—
llOWJilD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under tire Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; VV. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. liyan, Esq.,
r. K. Loxton, Esq.; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.U.
UKKKK.tt, .M a.vacjEß —M. G. HAVMKN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
brandies in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also lepreseniatiun
through the leading Ranking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Rank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of ail general bar king business.
f
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
FHE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Monday to Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/-
Saturday, Late Hala Night.
Special Table d'HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock. Special Supper' 12/6; or
il la carte, minimum, 12/6
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Pa'ties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
The Ambassadors New Delightful
Dance Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Khvthm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
THE QUARTERMASTER.
THIS IS THE £5OO FIRST-PRIZE NOVEL ”A HOUSE IS BUILT,*' BY FLORA ELDERSHAW AND MARJORIE BARNARD,
ABRIDGED BY “THE BULLETIN” FOR SERIAL PUBLICATION.
ILLUSTRATED By - NORMAN LINDSAY.
Synopsis: Quartermaster James
Hyde, impressed in .1837 with the busi-
ness possibilities of Sydney, leaves the
service two years later and buys a
combined store and dwelling in Wind-
mill-street, near the harbor. His son
William thinks shopkeeping and the
general raw state of the young city too
degrading for him to bring his fiancee,
Adcla , to live there. William also
resents the whaling skipper, Captain
Hildebrand, being treated as a family
guest and meeting his sisters, Fanny
and Maud, on , terms of friendship.
The Quartermaster, however, breaks
down some of William's opposition,
and takes that young man into the
business. Fanny is secretly deeply at-
tracted to Hildebrand, and is delighted
when he returns from a successful
whaling trip at a time when other
whalers are out of luck. At dinner
one evening Hildebrand's mate, Meilcle,
tells how the success was achieved
through Hildebrand's forcing the c*-rw
to wait on when almost starving. This
further provokes William, and turns
even the Quartermaster’s friendship
into mere business relations. Fanyy.
however, falls more deeply in love, and '
is seriously shocked when, offering to
elope with Hildebrand, she is mocked
and rejected. The Quartermaster,
after a vain effort to force the seer I
of her sudden illness out of her, tells
the rest of the family “not to plague
her.”
CHAPTER VIII.
Matjd.
IT was impossible to ignore the cloud that
hung over the Quartermaster’s family,
Fanny was very difficult in those days.
The Quartermaster himself felt uncomfort-
able and discomfited. William guarded his
wounded family pride in a still closer
reserve.
The tension was becoming impossible
when the doctor revived the suggestion
of a change of air. The Quartermaster
seized upon the idea eagerly. Long dis-
cussions arose, which Fanny found very
wearying; but Maud entered into them with
avidity. Finally it was decided that she
should accompany Fanny. The Windmill-
street household was to get on as best it
could with Katie and a young niece of hers
to help in the mornings.
Humphrey Gillam was a constant in-
quirer; and as his visits mainly consisted of
talking to Maud, she naturally asked his
advice about a place to stay. There was
a good deal of whispering in a corner of
the parlor, and that evening Maud clamored
for a decision. The Quartermaster appealed
to William, who knew the country better
than anyone.
“A farm would be nice,” cooed Maud;
“the cream and poultry and eggs would be
so good for Fanny. A really nice farm,
William.”
William did not think any farm he had
seen really nice; and the discussion degener-
ated into a wrangle between Maud and
William till the Quartermaster grew im-
patient.
“Leave it to me,” he cried; “I’ll find
you somewhere to go and you’ll have to be
satisfied with it.”
The next day it happened that Humph-
rey’s call coincided with the hour the
Quartermaster took to read the Herald.
He was shown into the parlor. Maud was
engaged. Kind inquiries for the patient
led naturally to a discussion of the country
holiday. Humphrey knew a suitable place
outside Camden, a farm owned by re-
spectable people named Codling. He would
make inquiries, if the Quartermaster wished.
It was a most salubrious climate, a most
retired spot. The matter was almost set-
tled.
“The Gillams do themselves well,” the
Quartermaster reflected. “It ought to be all
right.” •
“Haven’t the Gillams a. place there? ’
inquired William that evening.
“Have they?” said Maud, opening her
eyes wide. “I don’t think they go there
much.”
The spirit of Christmas almost restored
the peace of the family which Fanny had so
rudely disrupted. Fanny and Maud vied in
instructing Katie in the art of making
mince-pies, plum-puddings and cakes of in-
credible heaviness and richness. William
received a warm comforter knitted by his
Adela in England, and the girls a prayer-
book and a letter of pious exhortation each
from their Aunt Sbphia, who thought that
everyone going out to a new country should
assume the character of a missionary.
A heat-wave struck Sydney on Christmas
Eve, but no one could be persuaded to
relinquish one jot of the Christmas fes-
tivities. Panting and perspiring, Maud fes-
tooned the parlor with colored papers and
ropes of greenery. Almost fainting, she
toiled up the town on William’s arm to
make the last purchases. “I don’t know
how we are going to eat all the stuff,” said
William. “I am sure something cold would
be better suited to this climate.”
“What!” they all cried—“not keep up
Christmas!” and they looked at William
as if he had blasphemed his God and re-
pudiated his country.
From the store Libby, Jem and his wife,
George and Jacky were all bidden. It was
only right, the Quartermaster said. They
came, of course, and the parlor was
packed with sweating and uncomfortable
humanity. Benjamin brought each of the
young ladies a posy in a lace paper folder,
and was very sad because the shadow of
Maud’s departure was upon Km.
Ever since the holiday had been mooted
Maud had been coaxing Her papa to give
her a riding-habit. “What!” he exclaimed.
Ride a farm horse? I don’t call that look-
ing after your sister.”
But taking advantage of the Christmas
spirit, she wheedled it out of him. A
voluminous skirt of fine plum-colored serge,
worn over drill riding-trousers, a cambric
jacket with puffed sleeves, a check cravat
of silk surmounted by a pleated frill of
white muslin, a silk top-hat and white
gossamer made up her costume. William
gave her a crop with an ivory handle.
Three days after Christmas the two
young ladies departed for Camden in a
closed carriage hired from the Tonbridge.
William was to accompany them on horse-
back, and George to take their effects on
the waggon. They carried with them only
a couple of bandboxes and a carpet-bag
packed with necessities for the night they
would spend on their way, and a flask ot
brandy in case of accidents.
Progress was slow at first across the Hay-
market Gully and up the hill; but once past
the toll-gate the horses pulled with a will.
It was not so hot, but very dusty, as no
rain had fallen since the night the Rosa-
mund had sailed. In the hot, dark leather
interior of the carriage the girls sweltered
in the dark serge frocks and green gossa-
mers that were de rigueur for a journey.
They lunched at Perrins’ Inn by the road
side. Hot sheep’s tongues, cold pork pie,
potatoes and greens were piled together
in a great mound on their plates, and a
dessert of figs and cakes, washed down with
cider, followed.
About sunset they came to the Covell
Hostelry, where they were to spend the
night. The home-made candles on the
dressing-table were bent double with the
heat; the one small window in each small
chamber had to be propped open with a
The next day about noon they reached
their destination.
Fanny, who had turned a deaf ear for
many a long mile to Maud’s running stream
of exclamation and comment, was helped
out first. A Noah’s Ark seemed to swarm
from the buildings and yards to watch
the ceremony of dismounting. Two sheep-
dogs rushed out from behind the stables,
barking furiously, dividing their attention
between the strangers and the sunburnt
tabby cat arching its back round a verandah
post.’ A half-grown lad went to the horses’
heads, vainly shouting the dogs into silence.
Five or six barefooted children—they
seemed to Maud to be dozens, and all of
an age—peeped inqivs'tiyely from the doors
or windows of the buildings. Younger ones
clung to the skirts of the two women who
came out to meet them. William dis-
mounted, stiffly ignoring the sensation
caused by his buff riding-breeches, long
coat-tails and tall hat; he handed the
bridle to the stable-boy and ceremoniously
helped his sisters out. Mrs. Godling hurried
U p —“Young Mrs. Bill,” she was still called,
though she was now a stout, comely matron
of forty. .
“Miss Hyde, Ma’am, and Miss Fanny,
welcome to Rose Farm, ladies. You will be
glad of a rest after your tiresome journey.
JcSertha, take Victoria for me while I show
the young ladies to their rooms. And Mr.
Hyde, will you please to follow.”
Talking volubly to cover her nervousness,
she led her guests to their rooms.
Hot and wearied with the long journey
in the stifling carriage, Fanny heard as in
a dream Maud’s voice chattering on as she
bathed the dust of her journey from her
face and changed from her dark travelling
clothes into a lighter robe with ruffled skirt.
The room was hot but rather attractive,
nevertheless. It was long and low, its pine
ceiling charmingly irregular in height.
From the window they could see the
orchard, and farther, beyond a stretch of
grey, grassy fields, to where a brown slab
house stood among shapely sugar-gums.
Maud sniffed the air appreciably, savoring
through the heavy smell of dust the warm
scent of hay and dry grass in the sun.
“Fanny, love,” she cried, “do come and
look. I am sure this will do you good. ’
But Fanny was perverse and languid and
would not look.
William rode off and the girls had a
fleeting moment of panic. They felt very
far away from the familiar life of the
store. Out of perversity Fanny stayed
indoors, but Maud settled quickly into life
on the farm. One of her first inquiries was,
“Could I get a lady’s hack anywhere and
learn to ride?”
Mr. Godling twinkled. “Funny thing,
Miss,” he said, “but young Mr. Humphrey
up to Gillam Park came down yesterday
with Lady Gray, saying she wanted exercise,
and he’d give the boys something if they’d
take her condition down a bit. Don’t see
why you shouldn’t use her. She’s a beauti-
ful little animal, gentle as a dove.”
So Maud learned to ride in the paddock
behind the willows, with Tom, aged twelve,
to- teach her and a mob of children to watch.
Soon she could be trusted on a longer ride
with Tommy as her bodyguard and willing
slave. In these days she was blossoming
into a new loveliness.
Maud peeped into the room where Fanny
still lay, her face turned to the window


“Miss Maud,” he cried, “this is a pleasure!”
overlooking the orchard. She said “Do you
want me, Fanny?” and Fanny said no, she
didn’t want anybody. So Maud went out
riding with a light heart, having done her
duty. Lady Gray walked delicately upon
the grass by the roadside, to be out of the
dust.
“What is the big white house behind
the trees on the hill, Tommy?”
“That’s Gillam Park, Miss, and there’s
Mr. Humphrey on the drive.”
Humphrey came to meet them as they
passed the park gates.
“Miss Maud!” he cried, “this is a
pleasure; and how is your patient?”
“She is improving, thank you.”
“Tom, run up to the stables and tell
them to saddle Sunbeam for me. Or,
better still, I’ll take your nag and place.
We mustn’t keep Miss Maud waiting.”
Then, as the lad hesitated, “I’ll bring her
back safe and sound. Go up to the house
and Mrs. Mullins will give you a cake.”
“I didn’t invite you to come,” Maud
said when they had moved off.
“Don’t spoil it, Maud; I haven’t seen
you for nearly a week.”
“Poor Humphrey! I don’t mind, then.”
They rode up the little hill and down
again and across the gentle plain hetween
the yellow pastures, with here and there a
long rick. The red road was furrowed by old
rains and old cart wheels, and soft, thick
dust rose up behind them in a cloud and
settled on the shrubs at the roadside.
Humphrey told her about the country, that
it was good grass land and the centre of
the sheep industry, that it had been settled
for many years—that the Godlings were
among the pioneers, that some day Aus-
tralia would all be like this, a great pasture.
Maud could see that he loved the country.
They turned and were surprised to find they
had come so far.
Tom was waiting where they had left
him. They sighed, then smiled to hear the
other sigh.
“To-morrow?”
“I don’t know, it depends on Fanny.
I’ll try to come.”
On Sunday the girls walked across the
farm- to the church. It was farther than
they had thought. The grass was brown
with a silver sheen, the paddocks wide
and open, the sky pale and all between
was filled with a shimmering heat. Maud
would have loved to fling herself down on
the ground and rest. She knew she would
feel the earth beating in time to her heart.
“Doesn’t the earth feel alive here?” said
Maud.
“Yes,” said Fanny, “don’t you think we
might leave off our wadded petticoats?
None of the girls at the farm wear them.”
The church was dark, the congregation
scanty, the vicar lean and savage, a Savon-
arola with a phlegmatic and drowsy con-
gregation. Maud tried to read the inscrip-
tions on the brass tablets round the walls.
Fanny was busy of her own affairs. Some-
times she thought of the terrible abyss down
which she had nearly fallen. Sometimes
she drove her nails into her palms in bitter-
ness and fury at the memory of her humili-
ation; but hardest to bear were the times
when she felt neither bitterness nor anger
nor fear, only the heartbreaking conscious-
ness that she had lost faith and love. She
could never love anyone again, not as she
had loved Hildebrand, because she could
never trust again.
An electric shudder ran through the
congregation. The vicar was reneating his
text—“ For I was born free.” Heads were
turned to the north side of the church,
starched petticoats murmured like the sea
subsiding into repose.
After service, as the congregation was
drifting out, a line suddenly opened in the
little crowd and through it came a fat. red-
faced man in a flowered waistcoat, upon his
arm his florid snouse in damask and gold
chains. Maud distinctly heard a titter, and
after they had passed, a rush of comment.
“Looks a bit nettled, don’t he?” remarked
one ancient to another. “Serves him right.”
“My dear,” whispered a matron, “did
you ever hear the like? Unbecoming in
church, I must say. But I’m that glad I
didn’t stay at home.”
Outside Humphrey Gillam leaned on
the church wall. He saluted the ladies.
“Not at church, Mr. Humphrey?” cried
Maud frowning at him. Fanny bowed
coldly.
“Alas! I was too late. I have been
reading the headstones instead. They are
most edifying.”
Fanny retailed to him the incident in
the church and inquired eagerly what it
all meant. Humphrey laughed.
“That will be the Altons. Terrible snobs.
But everyone knows old Alton. This man’s
father served his time, and his wife was
no better. They quarrelled with the parson
about their pew and this is his revenge.”
* * !■: *
Fanny gradually came out of her retire-
ment. Naturally of an active disposition
she was drawn almost imperceptibly into
the steady routine of life on the farm.
She was surprised to find the place so
large, busy and prosperous. The straggling
exterior belied its inward efficiency. She
rose early to see the girls Rosa, Ellen and
Bertha milking the cows. She loved the
long dairy where the milk was set out to
cool in the shallow, circular pans, the churns
where the butter was made. She penetrated
the larder, stored for a year. She explored
the orchard full of fruit, waiting to bo
preserved. Even now the hot, rich smell
of damson jam came from the kitchen
where Ellen was busy at the. range, singing
as she stirred. “This is our busy time,”
explained Mrs. Godling, “though goodness
knows there’s not much difference between
the busy time and the slack.”
“Is it not a veiy hard life?” Fanny
wanted to know.
“I don’t know, it’s what I’ve always
done. It don’t seem more than God meant
us females to do—making the children and
the food and the clothes and tending the
beasts.”
Fanny was fascinated. She could feel
the steady rhythm of the work going on,
the fertility of the farm, the fertility of
work. These women had something in
their lives that never deserted them, that
outlasted love and romance, and that was
their creative power. She was sure they
were happier than she, more contented,
though their lives often seemed very hard.
“It’s only people like Maud and me, who
have no definite enduring work in our lives,
who think love’s going to be everything. It
isn’t everything, it’s only a little bit; and
when we try to believe it’s everything and
build on that, we come to grief. Perhaps
papa would let me help him. I know I
could do anything that Benjamin does, or
William. It’s silly trying to pretend that
I’m nothing but a sort of doll.”
So Fanny began to console herself and
to plan her life anew. She grew to realise
that only a small portion of her possible
world had fallen, and that she still had
herself, a very mine of fertility.
She envied Maud the ease with which she
won over everybody in the house. It was
to Maud they confided their love affairs,
and Maud who showed them how shawls
were worn in town, or how to make oyer
the gowns to a more fashionable cut. She
had reduced George Godling to a state
of blushing imbecility in an evening.
When she stopped to think, she was a
little alarmed by the gulf widening between
herself and Maud. But she could not breach
it, and Maud scarcely noticed it—she was
at present very much occupied with her
own affairs.
Maud had never been so free in her life
before. Fanny seemed to have lost interest
in her and made only the most cursory
inquiries about the daily rides. Conscience
no longer reproached her when she left
Fanny, for she thought her sister much
improved in health and spirits. The secrecy
( Continued, on next page.)


A STEELE RUDD STORY
In one of his inimitable bush yarns Steele Rudd takes us to the
little grey homestead and makes his mates paint for us a picture
of a wild-pig hunt—full of humor and warm with human nature.
NEXT WEEK.
r -tor a good
/ nights rest
take
sdf
it will ensure
a good days
work
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists
and Stores
THROW OFF THE MASK
FRECKLES, PIMPLES, BLACKHEADS.
Are Ugly Features.
Refined Folks Avoid Your Acquaintance.
I will tell every reader of this journal Free how every
blemish can be removed in Ten Days
Stubborn cases have been cured that baffled physicians and
beauty-specialists for years. You have never in all your life
used or beard of anything like it. Makes muddy complexions,
red spots, pimples, blackheads, freckles, eruptions, vanish
almost like magic. No cream, lotion, enamel, salve, plaster,
bandage, mask," massage, diet or apparatus, nothing to swallow. It doesn’t matter
whether or not your complexion is a “fright,” whether your face is full of muddy spots,
peppery blackheads, embarrassing pimples and eruptions, or whether your skin is rough
and “porey,” and you’ve tried almost everything under the sun to get rid of the
blemishes. This wonderful treatment in just ten days removes blemishes and beautifies
your skin in a marvellous way. You look years younger. It gives the skin the bloom
and tint of purity of a freshly-blown rose. In ten days you can be the subject of
admiration by all your friends, no matter what your age or condition of health.
All Other Methods Nov Known Are Cast Aside.
There is nothing to wear, nothing to take internally. Your face, even arms, hands,
shoulders, are beautified beyond your fondest dreams. All this I will absolutely Drove
to vou before vour own eyes in your mirror in ten days. This treatment is absolutely
harmless to the most delicate skin and very pleasant to use. No change in your .node
of living necessary. A few minutes daily does it. , ~ . ~ ,
To every reader of this journal I will give full details of this really astounding
treatment. Let me show you. You risk nothing. Send me three penny stamps, your
name and address, and I will give you full details by return mail.
MISS GRACE DUNCAN (Suite B 6) 195 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
&
-T
Unexcelled tor
Convenience
Main
Theatres
situated
nearby.
Right.
opposite
Railway
Station.
V
I
Handy to
main
public
buildings.
Conveni-
ently near
Shopping
Centres.
No hotel in Adelaide is so conveniently
located as The Grosvenor, and none
offers better service or greater comfort
Tariff from £3 10/-.
Write for information booklet.
S‘GROSVENOR
r e Adelaides Finest Unlicensed Jiotd
Opp. Railway Stn. North Terrace. _
of her meetings with Humphrey troubled
her a little, but never for long. They
happened so naturally and easily; they
were reticent and unobtrusive rather than
secret. More than once it was on the tip
of Maud’s tongue to confide in Fanny; she
had never kept a secret before. But this
was a new Fanny, and Maud dreaded her
coldness far more than anything she might
do to stop their affair.
One day they were caught in a sudden
thunder shower, and took refuge in the
remains of a disused mud-hut. The walls
were thick, the bark roof showed many
gaps. The walls were crumbling and seemed
on the point of melting back into the
ground. They tethered their horses to an
old pepper-tree against the wall, where they
would be a little sheltered, and huddled
together on a small patch of dry ground in
the one room the hut boasted. The rain
hemmed them in with a curtain of silver
rods, the sky showed black through the
rents in the roof. Maud took off her hat,
and Humphrey wrapped her in his riding-
cloak to protect her from drips and splashes.
They stood close together, looking out at
the rain. A deep melancholy came on
Maud.
“Talk to me, Humphrey.”
“Dear, dear Maud,” he said in a hoarse
voice, “we must think of something.” She
nodded with her head against his breast.
“We can bear anything but being separated,
can’t we?” Again she nodded. They kissed
for the first time and did not mind the
rain any more.
After that Humphrey wanted to show her
the house at Gillam Park. It was in the
Georgian style, built some fifteen years
before; of stone, with high, arched windows,
a pillared portico and semi-circular step.
As they went from room to room Hum-
phrey talked freely about his family. “I
am so ashamed, Maud, that mamma should
be so unreasonable. If she knew we were
together here, I think she would die. When
it has to do with any of us, papa always
agrees with her. It will make our marriage
difficult.”
They sighed and smiled again, wandering
hand in hand. “I’ll have some cheerful
flowered chintzes in here,” Maud thought.
“And blue velvet curtains in the dining-
room instead of those dingy old red ones.”
Another day “Where are you taking
me?” Maud asked.
“To Cobbitty,” Humphrey said, and
pointed over the fields to a spire three
miles away, “There’s something there I want
to show you.”
They drew up at the church gate and he
lifted her down. “It’s inside,” he said.
They walked through the little graveyard
where men had been buried since 1815
and into the little, dark, ivy-covered church.
“What is it?”
“It’s an altar. I hope we are going to get
married here. Would it do?”
“Yes, Humphrey.”
“To-morrow?”
“Humphrey, you frighten me. It is all
a horrid joke.” f
“1 was never more in earnest. Let s
get married first and have the fuss after.”
“Come outside, Humphrey; we can’t talk
in here.”
In the graveyard Humphrey persuaded
her. They went to the rectory and made
arrangements. It was then four o’clock.
The next day at eleven they would be
married.
* * * *
It was half an hour since Fanny had seen
Maud ride away with Tom beside her. A
sociable drew up at the gate and set down
Mrs. Bill’s sister, a jolly widow who now
kept their father’s place at Cobbitty.
“I’ve news for you this morning,” she
announced before she was properly into
the house, “or maybe you know all about
it. Who do you think is to be married,
Molly? You’ll never guess. Whatever his
mamma will say I don’t know, so quiet and
all. It’s Mr. Humphrey Gillam from
Gillam Park. The lady’s name—-Oh la!
what have I said?’’ she cried, becoming
aware of the startled silence into which
her words had been falling.
Fanny was very calm. “Can I have a
carriage of any kind? I must go after her.”
Only a farm-cart was forthcoming and in
that Fanny W'as presently jolting towards
Cobbitty. Never a word she spoke to the
wretched George on the plank beside her.
She was humiliated by Maud’s deceitful-
ness and bitterly angry.
As Fanny descended unaided from the
cart, Humphrey led his bride down the
church steps. Seeing Fanny, Maud left
her new husband, rushed to her sister and
flung her arms round her neck.
“I see I am too late,” said Fanny, dis-
engaging herself. “I knew you were foolish,
but I never suspected you of deceit.”
“I didn’t dare to tell you—oh, Fanny!”
“I don’t suppose you did. I’ve been a
fool, of course.”
Tommy, becoming aware of the scene,
raced to his horse and rode off in search
of an alibi. Fanny climbed back on the
cart. George uttered no word, but obedi-
ently shook his reins. Maud held out her
arms, tears running down her cheeks, but
Fanny drove off with a dignity that out-
weighed her odd equipage.
The young couple were marooned at
Gillam Park. Maud dared not return to
the farm, Humphrey dared not return to
his home and mother. They both felt a
little guilty and apprehensive, but on the
whole w r ere very happy and incredibly
foolish.
Maud conceived the idea of returning to
the store. “Fanny,” she expounded, “will
have to wait at the farm till William comes
for her. She will send word at once, but
we could easily get to papa before she
arrives.
Humphrey had ridden up to Camden, so
there was only a somewhat aged cab-
phaeton to convey them back to Sydney,
It was not a very suitable vehicle, but it
brought them to the store on the afternoon
of the following day.
The Quartermaster was at the door talk-
ing to William when they arrived. “Lord
save us!” he cried, “here they are!” Then
before they could attempt an explanation
he burst into a roar of laughter, slapping
the sheepish Humphrey on the back.
“God bless me, boy, your ma will have
a fit when she hears of this!”
chapterTix.
Adela.
It was January, 1814. Adela was to
arrive in Sydney in three months’ time, and
she and William were to be married a most
at once. No one of the household at
Windmill-street seemed to know quite how
it had been arranged and secretly each of
the trio dreaded her coming.
To the Quartermaster, who had never
seen her, Adela had always been no more
than a name, but a name by which William
gauged and condemned his father s habits
and speech. When the Quartermastei
thought of it all he viewed her coming with
a vague feeling of uneasy distaste.
Fanny’s feeling went far deeper. To her
Adela’s coming meant that the last thing
she possessed would be snatched from her.
She was now in her twenty-sixth year and
was fully persuaded that she would never
marry. The failure of her only love m
humiliation and bitter shame, together with
what she persistently regarded as the loss
of her sister, had left a great blank in her
life. When the excitement of preparing
Maud’s post-nuptial trousseau, and of
settling her in the house at Balmain which
was Mr. Gillam’s wedding present, was over,
she found her life practically empty. She
had not forgotten her idea of asking her
father for work in the store, and, choosing
her time carefully, approached him in
the office. Fanny was never one to beat
about the bush and she opened fire at once.
“Papa, I should like to help you m the
store —is there not something I could do?”
The Quartermaster looked mildly sur-
prised. “We’re pretty slack at present,
my dear. I don’t think there’s anything.
“I don’t mean to-day only, papa, but
regularly. I haven’t enough to do and I
can’t be happy without something definite.
Can’t you understand, I want to be some
use?” ,
“What use do you think you could be
there, Miss?”
Fanny stuck to her guns. I m not
stupid, papa. I could do what William
does, I am sure. I’ve heard you say your-
self that I’d have been a good son.”
“Now don’t get all worked up, girl.
don’t say you mightn’t be some use, but
womenfolk have no place in business. And
a handsome girl like you ought to be
getting married.”
“Why can’t you think of anything but
marriage for a female?” she cried in vexa-
tion.
“I tell you straight, Fanny, I don t be-
lieve in petticoats in business, and I never
shall.”
So Fanny had shut her mind against hope
in that direction, and had devoted her
energies passionately to the perfection of
her housewifely talent. The old bare rooms
at Windmill-street could never become
beautiful, but she had wrapped herself in
them and made them .hers. And now she
had to leave them, too. For William had
triumphed at last. He had insisted that
Adeia could not be brought to the rooms
above the store, and, though the Quarter-
master grumbled, he had yielded. For Wil-
liam’s partnership, at first but a name, had
become in some form a reality. The Quarter-
master was still the supreme figure and always
would be, setting his fiand to more and more
daring enterprises, savoring his power,
loving his growing wealth, absorbed in the
new possibilities he saw on every hand;
but William’s sound caution had proved a
useful brake, and James Hyde had been
forced to acknowledge its usefulness in the
financial crisis of the previous year, when
the Bank of Australia had failed. He had
grown to rely not a little on Williams
judgment, though he would not admit it
even to himself, and scoffed at his son’s
pedantic caution.
“You’re all right in a crisis, boy,” he
said once, “but trade is not all crises, and
now’s the time to strike out while the
rest are too scared to move.”
Still, William had won his place in the
firm of James Hyde and Son, and the
Quartermaster was too just to refuse what
William now pressed as a right. It was
good, too, for his credit in the business
world, to show that he could lord it among
the rest of ’em; but he’d keep a room in
Windmill-street ready, so that he could
sleep there when he wanted to.
Fanny had urged that the new house
should be for William and Adela alone.
“It is right that they should have their
home to themselves,” she said; but her
heart cried, “I must keep my dominion
here, or I shall be lost. It is all I have.”
The Quartermaster’s blank opposition had
found an unexpected ally in William. He
had felt it as important to his social stand-
ing in the colony that his father and sister
should not live over the store as that he
and his wife should not do so. And in his
heart of hearts William felt he would be
grateful for the presence of some familiar
figures in the home which he was preparing
for his bride.
For to William more than to anyone else
Adela’s* coming was a strange and disturb-
ing event. No other love had ever dis-
placed her image in his heart; but that
image had become unreal, a shrine remote
and unvisited. He had continued to write,
in the five years of his exile from England,
letters of a restrained and gentlemanly
ardor, but the words ran in the grooves that
custom had made for them, and his mar-
riage had remained for him in the distant
future where he had first had to Mew 1.
Still, he prepared to greet Adela with a suit-
able degree of warmth, and to shield hei
as far as possible from any harsh contact
with life.
To Adela Gage the long journey, tre-
mendous event as it was, was in no waj
unexpected or strange. It was the natural
and inevitable outcome of her wooing me
years before. She had assured him then
that, though her parents could forbid their
marriage now, no one could prevent it
when she was of age. Mr. Gage had been
satisfied that time and distance would wipe
William’s image from his daughter’s mmd.
But Mrs. Gage had read Adela better. Hei
own quiet tenacity gave her the clue to
her daughter’s heart. The unspoken confi-
dence that lay between mother and daugh-
ter, the deep bond of nature, had convinced
her even before they spoke of it that when
the time came she must lose Adela to that
unknown land to which her lover had re-
luctantly been forced.
For a time the family peace was shat-
tered. Even Mrs. Gage wondered at Adela’s
tenacity. Only the strongest inward assu-
rance and serenity could have sustained
her love and faith in those years. William’s
letters grew even fewer, and even to her
eager heart they sometimes seemed paper
thin to sustain a love through five years of
absence and opposition. But Adela’s love
sustained itself. .
Mr. Gage could make no headway against
such convictions; but when the marriage
became a practical project of the immedi-
ate future, his opposition degenerated into
the offering of every conceivable obstacle
to his wife and daughter.
“Is it conceivable, Mrs. Gage,” he asked,
“that my daughter should travel alone and
unchaperoned on such a journey?”
She had the solution ready, beautifully
simple and appropriate. Esther Gage, a
second cousin, would accompany Adela, and
the two ladies would be placed under the
personal protection of the captain of the
Robert McPhee, himself a close friend of
Mr. Gage. So it was arranged. Esther Gage
was nearing thirty, unmarried and appa-
rently unmarriageable. It was felt by all
that Australia would be a happy solution for
her. On May 3, 1844, Adela and Esther set
sail for the New World.
The new home faced into the City-road
near its junction with the Parramatta-road.
It was a commodious residence of brick,
cemented over and painted red and almost
new. It was of the unimaginative Victorian
pattern, high and narrow, with steep stairs,
narrow corridors, pinched offices, large re-
ception-rooms, hierarchic bedrooms in which
the pleasingness of the chamber was de-
finitely planned to suit the social status
of its probable inhabitant; a cupboard under
the stairs, a reticent front door with panes
of red and purple glass, a balcony of
wrought iron. It was of unimpeachable
gentility; it was screened from public gaze
by a row of pepper-trees much older than
the house. Their lazy green made a per-
petual curtain before the drawing-room
window and produced a melancholy green
twilight.
A new, bright yellow phaeton occupied the
coach-house; at seven-thirty each morning
it swerved round the corner into the
Parramatta-road, rattled down the hill that
is now Broadway, passing Saint Barnabas’s,
and up to the farther crest where the
Wheatsheaf stood. The road plunged
down again to the Haymarket, a red-brick
building of many arches built ten years
before. Dolly walked up the long, steep
slope of Brickfield Hill, the bugbear of
Sydney horses; then she picked up her pace
again on the level past the old cemetery.
Beyond it the Cathedral Church of St.
Andrew 7 was slowly rising in a humble form;
past the new Royal Hotel, that had risen
phcenix-like from its ashes in 1840. Next
door to it was the small foundry lately
established by a Peter Nicol Russell, whose
statue in bronze was destined in after years
to grace the university that owed him so
much. They bowled past the Blackboy at
the corner of King-street, and the Quarter-
master might remember certain boisterous
evenings he had spent there, unaccom-
panied by William, with some of his sea-
faring friends, listening to the comic songs,
joining in the choruses and banging on the
wooden tables with their tankards. Across
(Continued on page 58.)


Legal Notices,
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 NEW SOUTH WALES. In Equity.
TO JOHN WILSON late of Albert Street
Botany in the State of New South Wales
Dealer
TAKE NOTICE that BERTRAM MUR-
RAY of 105 Pitt Street Sydney in the said
State has commenced a suit against you in
the Supreme Court of the said State in its
Equitable Jurisdiction for foreclosure of the
Mortgage given by you to him of your inter-
est under your late father’s will on 22nd
May 1923 AND TAKE NOTICE that by
order of the said Court you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of the said Court on or before
the 2nd September 1929 and that in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
the plaintiff may proceed and the suit be
heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the Originating Sum-
mons filed herein may be had on application
to the undermentioned free of charge. Dated
this 31st May, 1929. S. B. BANFIELD,
Solicitor for Plaintiff, 105 Pitt St., Sydney.
IN THE ESTATE OF ROBERT CHRIST-
*■ lAN, late of 60 Nott Street, Port
Melbourne, in Victoria, deceased.
DONALD CHRISTIAN, formerly of 330
Bay Street, Port Melbourne, in Victoria, the
father of the above-named deceased and en-
titled to his estate, and last heard of in 1902
at Mulwala and Corowa, New South Wales,
is requested to communicate with the Curator
of Estates of Deceased Persons in Victoria,
or with his son, JOHN QUIRK CHRIST-
IAN, of 60 Nott Street, Port Melbourne,
in Victoria, in connection with such estate.
TO STEPHEN BUSH'BY and CHARLES
A BUSIIBY, formerly of Tasmania, but
later of Bullarook Forest, near Ballarat,
and Melbourne, Victoria, respectively,
brothers of Arthur Bushby, who died at
Crofton, New Zealand, on the sth
November, 1918, and to the children of
the said Stephen Bushby and Charles
Bushby, and to all persons claiming by,
through or under them or any of them.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
24th May, 1929, by a Judge of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand, you are hereby called
upon to send in to the undersigned on or
before the 31st December, 1929, your claims
to the estate of the above-named deceased,
failing which the said estate will be dis-
tributed amongst those entitled thereto dis-
regarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 28th dav of
May. 1929.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
If you suffer after eating', try this simple plan:
Eat three Para-Pepsin tablets during your meal
and note results. No pain! Just a hearty meal, and
a first-rate feeling afterwards. No drowsiness!
Para-Pepsin is a great remedy for digestive troubles
—much better than anti-acids or bismuthated
magnesia. And Para-Pepsin costs only 2/- at any
chemist’s, or direct from Amalgamated Laboratories,
Kembla Building, Sydney.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . , SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
p y HAIR
<o
HERE'S
•umy -
z
Grey Ha,ir is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
StPCUlvnis cmexican)
Vkutnui Steam,
9 RE MOVES THE GREY *
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (4/(5), 6d. being postage.
sd
If any illustration in Tiie Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for tlie original.
For the Man “On-the-Land”
Labor-saving
Aids
fsd
West dr's Improved
Differentia! Chain
Pn'lcy Blocks are very
useful on farms or in
$,• a r a g e s, factories,
wan houses, etc. These
hlncks have malleable
iron frames and cross
heads. They are self-
sustaining. Fitted with
See our Engineers’
Catalogue for other
types of Pulley Blocks.
m-r
W-jrZ
-l A
THE
SEYMOUR POST-
HOLE DIGGER
is made solely for the
purpose of speeding up
the digging of post-
holes. It bores its way
into any soil quickly
and easily. This is
one of the tools that
every man on the land
should have. It pays
for itself on the first
few holes.
In the following sizes:
In addition to stocking
all kinds of Tools, we are
able to supply many up-to-
date appliances for the
Farmer or Factory.
“RAPCO” FORGES.
1
A first-class portable forge, definitely superior
to many low-price forges. Machine cut gear
wheels of 40 to 1 ratio; 64in. fan case gives
a powerful blast. Legs are strong, and the
forge altogether is a sturdy, compact pro-
duction, and unusually good value for the
money. Has been designed for simplicity
and high efficiency. Firepans made of 16-
gauge iron, 18in. and 22in. square and 3in.
deep.
18in. pans, £3/7/6; 22in. pans, £4/5/-
f
Only 10,6
A sturdy “Ixion”
Breast Drill, 17 Ain.
long, and complete
with a three-jaw chuck.
Capacity of chuck, Ain.
Two speeds. All gears
are machine cut. Strong
Malleable Iron Frame.
Hardwood handles.
Weighs over 61b.
Strong and du-able,
this splendid drill will
give a lifetime of
service. Order at once.
Satisfaction guaran-
teed. Price, 10/6 each.
Postage 2/-
High-grade Steel-
twist Drills for use
with Breast Drill.
sdf
Send in this coupon for a copy of
our latest catalogue.
NAME . . .
ADDRESS
M>Pliersoii§
ir Ppopridanj limited V V
“DEPENDABLE GOODS SINCE 1860.”
51-65 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
582-592 Collins Street, Melbourne.
116-30 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Pumps for all
Purposes
4r-~ B9ASS
CYtIHOER
MYERS HOUSE
PUMP.
Superior in design to
any other make; gives
a continuous flow of
water. Handle can
be placed at any angle.
Double-acting, com-
pactly built, and very
powerful. Tapped on
top for tin. pipe,
through which the
water is conveyed to
tank.
No. 251 —3in. brass
cylinders, pipe.
Price £3/10/-
No. 253 —3 Jin. brass
cylinders, l|in. pipe.
Price £ 4
sd
HYDRAULIC
RAMS
will pump automati-
cally day and night. No
upkeep, no attention.
Consult our experts
regarding the instal-
lation of one for your
needs.
No. 2 gives $ to 2
gallons per rri nute.
Costs, £ 6
No. 3 gives 1J to 4
gallons per minute.
Costs, £7/5/-
No. 4 gives 3 to 7
gallons per minute.
Costs £B/10/-
No. 5 gives 6 to 14
gallons per minute.
£l2
Other particulars on
application.
fsd
No. 3 1-1 9 40/-
No. 4 1-| 13 50/-
No. 5 li 19 55/-
Size.
m Discharge Pipe,
""’inches.
35 3, Capacity per Minute,
Gallons.
to to
“•^Prices.
05 Ci
SEMI-ROTARY
PUMPS.
tk" VENUS
:>:v : x ■
A
i he first rough suggestion—the skilful
and accurate working out, the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive effort, call for the use of VENUS
PENCILS Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the des gn of a simple household
article, the pencil is the first requirement: the
VENUS the first pencil.
fsd
17 Blacklead L
each • 5/y p
?gi eb-yh id. each - 4/5 ter cozen, Super Copying (Medium & Hard) 6d.
er aozen. Venus Copying (Medium & Hard) 4d. each - 3/9 per dozen.
m
SIMONIZ
M
eN*
Makes
the Finish
Last Longer
Keeps Colors
from Fading
W New cars appear only
f}/' to require ordinary care
¥/ to keep them spotless and
f bright, yet the finish soon
becomes dulled and the new-
ness of appearance vanishes.
Therefore the sooner you
Simoniz your car —the better.
Every car needs Simoniz.
\ For in addition to providing
|k a luxuriant depth of lustre,
one Simoniz application
provides months of A
protection that makes the
finish last longer and keeps
colors from fading.
It saves time, energy and expense
in keeping cars looking clean and
bright, for all dust and dirt can be
wiped off a Simonized finish without
danger of marring or scratching —
and washing is seldom necessary.
If your car is dulled and worn looking
S
•j Simoniz Kleener will quickly
/ and easily remove all dirt,
scum, traffic accumulations, and
restore it to its original beauty
—then, apply Simoniz.
Buy a can of Simoniz and.
S imoniz Kleener today from your
hardware or auto accessory
dealer.
cMotorisisWhe
SIMONIZ
•w i
INSIST ON SIMONIZ.
Sold by all Good Motor Houses, Service
Hardware Stores at 2/6 Small Cans; 67-
In case you cannot obtain locally, see
Stations and
Large Cans,
note below.
M
A
D
E
I
N
A
U
s
T
R
A
L
1
A
f
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
SIMONIZ
PRODUCT—
SIMONIZ
PENETRATING
GRAPHITE
OIL
“LOOSENS THE TIGHTEST NUT.”
Simoniz Penetrating Graphite Oil
instantly
DISSOLVES RUST,
LUBRICATES CAR SPRINGS.
STOPS CHASSIS AND BODY
SQUEAKS,
FREES GUMMED MOTOR VALVES.
LOOSENS ALL TIGHT NUTS
AND BOLTS.
Sold in handy Boz. can with long spout. Price 2/6.
IP YOU CANNOT OBTAIN SI MUNIZ PRODUCTS
FROM YOUR USUAL DEALER, SEND POSTAL
NOTE TO
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS,
MOTORITE EQUIPMENTS PTY., LTD,,
Carlton, Melbourne.
rocc CAMP! FQ 0F SIMONIZ and
FHCL oHlvirLCo kleener on request.
mv ‘"sttwrOi
@KSE:
AM
Apply with a cloth


Tungstone the Only Car Battery in the World with Four Years Guarantee
WORLD’S RECORDS
Plate Storage «Long Life
sdf
TESTS MADE at the BRITISH GOVERNMENT’S TESTING STATION
Only Four Hours on Car or Bench to Complete Works First Partial Charge
sdf
Only “Pure Lead ” Plate Portable Car or Wireless Battery in the World
EXCEPTIONAL STORAGE CAPACITY IN SMALL SPACE BECAUSE PURE LEAD IS THE ONLY METAL
THAT WILL PERFECTLY, RELIABLY AND EFFICIENTLY GENERATE AND STORE ELECTRICITY
CHEMICALLY CONVERTED—THE BASIC WORKING PRINCIPLE OF ANY MAKE OF ACCUMULATOR
KSS3 ££ The PLATE...NERVE CENTRE - ANY BATTERY
TUNGSTONE The Only Battery in the World that reveals to the User. “ THE NERVE CENTRE.” Invitation to the Doubting Thomases.
ONLY PURE LEAD PLATES in the World High-Pressure Machine Die-Cast and Pasted by Automatic Machinery
Tungstone’s Unequivocal Statement and Challenge
TUNGSTONE’S Extraordinary and Revolutionary Claims for Plate Endurance, Paste Adhesion, Mechanical Strength, Reliability, Durability,
Storage Capacity are daily conclusively proved by Working Demonstrations on a 54 Plate Portable Car Battery fitted with measuring and
recording instruments. The Battery up-to-date has been dead Short-circuited 123 times across mam terminals was also daily used tor
Light and Self-Starting a 23-30 H.P. Engine. This Car demonstrated daily in London.
" -
v.. _ :
■ \ . - '>*
1
mm
3 m'
A
Tungstone Pure Lead Plates. —World’s Highest
Record for Amp. and Watt Hour Efficiency. (British
Government’s Official Test Certificate on Application).
Tungstone Machine Pasted Plates.— Exceptionally
Thick, Strong, Unique Construction. Machine Pasted.
No Treeing of Negatives.
Tungstone High-Pressure Machine Die'’Cast
Plates. —Cannot in Service be Buckled, Short-cicuited
or Distorted.
Tungstone’s Thicker and Stronger Plates.— Paste
does not drop out of Plate. No Space provided in
Cells. No Wood Separators required or used to hold
in the Paste.
Tungstone’s Pure Lead Interchangeable Plates. —
No Permanent Sulphation —The deadly disease that
permanently attacks and eventually destroys all
Batteries except Tungstone.
Tungstone’s Standardised Plates. Negligible
Internal R°sistance. World’s Records for Big Starter
Kicks, Quicker Charges and Discharges.
Tungstone’s Accessible and Removable Plates. —
Only Maker in the World to test the Pasting by twice
passing Plates through Vertical and Horizontal
Jogging Machines.
Tungstone Machine Pasted Plates. Cannot be
Damaged or Broken Down in Tropical Climates by
Continuous High Charging.
Tungstone Pure Lead Plates.— Exceptionally Low
Air and Acid Temperatures in Cell certified by
British Government Tests.
Tungstone High*Pressure Machine Die s Cast
Plates. —Strongly recommended to be Charged by
Car Dynamo at Continuous High Rates.
Tungstone’s Thicker and Stronger Plates.— ldeal
for Constant Potential Dynamo Charging. No
Overheating of Plates or Electrolyte.
Tungstone’s Interchangeable Plates.— At Works
Without Extra Cost to the Purchaser are Fully
Formed and First Partially Charged.
Tungstone’s Standardised Plates. —Works First
Partial Charge Completed in only FOUR
CONTINUOUS HOURS on Car or Bench.
Tungstone’s Accessible and Removable Plates.—
On First Charge cannot be damaged. Life Not
Shortened or Capacity Lost.
Tungstone New Plate Sections.— Readyfor Immediate
Use. Spare Plate Sections Dry Charged can be
Stored for unlimited Period in any Climate.
Tungstone New Plate Sections.— lnterchangeable
for Re-plating any Cell without removing Battery from
Vehicle. Can be First Charged on Car. Can be
Re-plated in a few minutes.
"
m
v
v - ; : ; : .
- :v
6
Tungstone the Only Car Battery in the World with “Independent Triple” Insulation oi each Plate and * Volt **?' at'the'owniOT’
Above*S?X movements conclusively prove that TUNGSTONE Car Battery Is NOT a “Seal d , »* e e “' V^ e °^ r^.“er “Solute Security and
exnense TUNGSTONE’S Accessibility 4 ‘Opens the Door” for anyone to learn how and why TUNGSTONE gives to the owi er us
p Reliable Service with Freedom from Excessive Repair costs, and Vexatious delays. Saved.
Reflating by New Plate Sections reliably renews the Storage Capacity to the Original Standard of a New Battery. Tme an j^f e>
Either Section can be Independently Re-plated at different periods, as and when each Plate twowannees SUPPLIED FREE.
THE FIXED PRICE FOR NEW PLATE SECTIONS IS THE ONLY REPAIR COST. RE-PLATED BY ANYONE WITH THE TWO »ANNUS ** a te
Tungstone is the Only Car Battery in the World with Positive Plates completely separated from the Negative Each Plate lectio P g itive
and Distinct Working Life. The Longer Life of the Tungstone Negative will NOT Earlier terminate the Life of the Positive
Alt other Makers Plates are in Monoblock Sections , therefore , must simultaneously and always Barker destroy each othe ' Bat tery.
Tungstone Re-plating of one or more Cells, as required, compares with the economical
WHEN RE-PLATING YOUR HOUSE-LIGHTING BATTERY SPECIFY TUNGSTONE HIGH-PRESSURE
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET FROM LOCAL GARAGES AND ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR OR SENT POST FREE.
SYDNEY: A. J. Dawson, m.i.a.e., Sales and Service, 91 William Street (Tel., FL2084).
BRISBANE: Brisbane Cars and Tractors, Ltd., Wickham Street.
MELBOURNE: Hocking & Hadden Pty., Ltd., 208 Latrobe Street.
C.T.P. 43.


SUNSHINE
CULTIVATING
AND SEEDING
MACHINERY
•*’« '
\
THE “SUNDERCUT” STUMP JUMP
DISC CULTIVATING PLOUGH
10-disc cuts 5 feet.
14-disc cuts 7 feet.
Unequalled for cultivating hard set fallow,
or fallow covered by heavy weed growth,
paddy-melon, stinkwort, thistles, etc.
Does splendid work in virgin Mallee soils.
Levers fitted for team or tractor pull.
X
i iiwiiili
THE “SUNTYNE” COMBINED GRAIN
AND FERTILIZER DRILL AND
SPRING TYNE CULTIVATOR.
17 tyne, sows 8 rows, covering 5 ft.
25 tyne, sows 12 rows, covering 7Jr ft.
29 tyne, sows 14 rows, covering 81 ft.
33 tyne, sows 16 rows, covering 94 ft.
41 tyne, sows 20 rows, covering 12ft.
49 tyne, sows 24 rows, covering 14ft.
Cultivates and sows to any desired depth.
Forms a compact seed bed with thoroughly
pulverised mulch. Tractor Hitch and
Lever can be fitted when ordered.
Write for descriptive literature, prices
and particulars of extended terms.
H. V. McKAY PTY..LTD
Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine.
Branches and Agencies:
664 BOURKE STREET WEST, MELBOURNE.
95-97 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
Corner MURRAY AND KING STREETS, PERTH.
H. V. McKAY (QUEENSLAND), LTD., STANLEY STREET, SOUTH
BRISBANE.
Lesssing's Gun.
NORMAN'S MORRELL'S TALE OF DIAMOND-DIGGING AND TREACHERY.
THE horsemen threaded their way slowly
among the dark green of the stunted
mulga. The leading rider, Bert
Mulvey, sat his sweating horse with the care-
less grace of the born bushmau. Across his
saddle was lashed a thin swag, rolled within
a weather-beaten tent-fly; and swag, horse
and rider alike were heavily coated with the
red dust of the day’s travel. Me was young,
somewhere in the early twenties, and his
dark eyes and swarthy skin advertised the
dash of native blood in his veins.
The second rider, stockily built, blue-eyed,
was a middle-aged man of the virile outdoor
type, his skin tanned to a tint little lighter
than the face of the quarter-breed.
Behind him jangled a packhorse loaded
with camp and prospecting gear, and In-
carried, balanced across his saddle, a repeat-
ing shotgun, well cared for and clean except
for the film of eternal red dust. On the
butt was neatly carved his name, Peter
Lessing.
He watched Mulvey’s back steadily, bis
face expressive of strained uncertainty. The
fellow had come to his camp, forty miles
behind, at a time when visitors were empha-
tically not wanted.
A month earlier, while prospecting a likely
range, Lessing had stumbled across a shoot
of bluish-grey clay. lie had worked for
years on the gemfields of South Africa, and
lie knew diamond indications when he saw
them, so he had pitched his tent at the near-
est water, over a mile distant, and set to
work.
The shoot was small, a freak of nature
in a country where diamond finds were almost
unheard of. He dug the clay, backed it into
small clods, and spread it where the blazing
sun could beat upon it from rise to setting.
In a week it was hard and parched, set like
cement, and ready for the tedious business
of pulverising and sifting.
Crushing the dried clay with wooden
rammers had been murderous work, but it
had been well worth while. When Mulvey
showed up, eleven days after Lessing’s arri-
val on the spot, the miner had won nine
diamonds of size varying from a few carats
to one he reckoned to weigh somewhere in
the vicinity of twenty carats.
And then he returned to his camp after
a gruelling day to find a ragged tent-fly rigged
a hundred yards from his own camp. The
new arrival strolled to meet him, his dark
face eager with curiosity.
“Didn’t expect to find anyone here,” he
said. “My name’s Mulvey—Bert Mulvey.
I’m travelling through looking for a stock-
man’s job. Saw your camp and thought
you might like a bit of company’’- He
paused. “Wliat're you doing? Prospecting?
Got. a show?”
“Hunting around,” Lessing replied non-
committally.
“Any luck?” Mulvey persisted.
“No. I’m thinking about moving on,”
Lessing said quickly. Involuntarily liis eyes
shifted before the quarter-caste’s probing
stare.
“A-ah!” Mulvey breathed slowly. He
glanced at Lessing’s clay-stained clothes, and
from them to the well-ordered camp with
its evidence of continued occupation. The
shadow of a disbelieving smile flitted across
his face.
“My horse sprained his leg in a rabbit-
hole. Looks as though I’ll have to stay and
rest him a while.”
Lessing grunted ungraciously. There was
nothing lie could say. Mulvey had as much
right as he to camp at the waterhole, and
to stay as long as the fancy took him.
And he had stayed on until Lessing, in
despair of deceiving him with bis apparent
inactivity, and eager to clean up the remain-
ing clay, resumed and finished bis work, and
announced bis intention of leaving. Then
the horse’s lameness disappeared with dis-
turbing suddenness, and its owner came for-
ward with an offer to accompany the pros-
pector on his ride to Katherine Crock accept-
ing his doubtfully-given consent as though it
had been enthusiastic agreement.
That sudden cure had put Lessing more
than ever on guard. If Mulvey had been
scouting during his absences from camp it
was quite possible that lie had found the
workings and guessed something -if the 'mean-
ing of the powdered clay. Perhaps he had
actually spied upon him while he sweated at
the work of pulverising under the scorching
sun. A child could reason that no man
vouhl do that without promise of tangible
reward.
Yet. what could lie say or do? lie could
not. openly accuse the quarter-caste of evil
intent. It was possible that lie was just
wlnit he represented himself to be, an honest
bush worker travelling in search of employ-
ment.
The horses plodded wearily on, their hoofs
raising dust in pungent puffs at each step.
Lessing grinned as he watched the bobbing
back of fhe man ahead. If Mulvey was after
the diamonds he would have a job to find
them. Tie ran a caressing hand over the
smooth, blued-steel barrel of the shotgun. In
the darkness of the previous night a flash of
inspiration had come to him. He had re-
moved the shells from the magazine, emptied
the load of powder and shot from three of
them, and into the vacant space thus created
had packed the gems, twelve in all, three of
them won during Mulvey’s presence at the
camping site. Carefully wadded with paper
to prevent any rattle, and with the tops re-
stored, he had placed them in the magazine,
leaving one live shell in the breech, one in
the magazine and then the three duds. Should
it be necessary to use the gun he could fire
twice without arousing suspicion.
Lessing came out of his fit of abstraction
as Mulvey’s horse whinnied eagerly. In the
hollow, a mile <n- more away, lay a sheet of
water, smooth and brassy under the sun
glare. That would be Parrahauna Billabong,
the deepest waterhole for fifty miles or more.
Tlie three horses came to life abruptly at
sight and smell of the water, and before long
wore snorting impatiently beside it while
their owners set them free.
The men prepared a meal in expert bush
fashion, and ate it silently. They lit their
pipes and reclined under a tree near the
water, Lessing taking care that the precious
gun was within easy reach. All the time
the black wall of suspicion reared between
them, a barrier to any but forced and spas-
modic conversation.
“I wonder if 1 could strike a job on Parra -
hanna station V” the quarter-caste said at
last. “I've a mind to leave you after to-
night and go on to the homestead. It’s only
about five miles to the south, on a smaller
billabong.”
Lessing looked at him squarely. “It’s a
big place. There should be some sort of
opening there,” he said encouragingly.
A great weight lifted from his mind. Light-
heartedly he rose to prepare for tin' night,
short-hobbling the two horses to restrict their
wanderings during the hours of darkness.
When he returned Mulvey was sitting
where lie had been left.
“llow about a swim?” he suggested.
Not waiting for an answer he divested him-
self of his dust-stained clothing, then poised
himself on the bank, a slender, dark-skinned
figure with the wiry body of a natural
athlete.
He dived clumsily and splashed about in
evident enjoyment. He was a poor swimmer,
Lessing noted, not even as good as himself.
’l’lie water looked wonderfully inviting.
For a minute or two they splashed and
gurgled like a pair of happy schoolboys.
“Come to the other side,” Mulvey called.
He struck out, using an awkward breast-
stroke, and Lessing followed.
They landed on the steep, grassy bank and
sprawled there for a time, soaking the warm
sunshine into dripping bodies.
“I’ll race you back,” the quarter-caste
challenged suddenly.
“Right,” Lessing agreed laughingly. He
was full of confidence until he caught a side-
long flash from this other’s eyes. Mulvey
was grinning widely, his whole demeanor
indicating a queer satisfaction. But he gave
the older man little time to think. He
stepped to the edge. “Come on,” he said.
Lessing joined him slowly. Against the
tree on the far bank he could see the gun,
and he cursed himself bitterly with a cold
sinking at the heart for ever having left it.
Still, Mulvey couldn’t swim faster thgn
lie. llow could he gain any advantage, if
evil was in his mind in proposing the race?
“I’ll count.three,” the younger man said,
and again Lessing caught that hint of deris-
ive mirth on his face. “One —two —three.”
They sprang forward together, Lessing
flailing the water in the clumsy over-arm
stroke he had learned as a boy.
With a sick feeling of dismay he saw that
Mulvey was already yards ahead. He turned
his head and grinned again, this time in
open derision; then he began to draw effort-
lessly away, using a perfect crawl stroke.
Lessing put forth every ounce of strength,
plunging clumsily in his wake.
The thought that had been fighting for
recognition from the moment he saw that
first glint of triumph in Mulvey’s eyes be-
came stark and horrible certainty.
The fellow knew of the diamonds, and
with his assumed indifference and pretended
awkwardness in the water had decoyed him
from the gun, the weapon which would domi-
nate the situation.
He whipped about and made for the bank
they had just left with an idea of seeking-
shelter among the trees there, but by the
time he emerged from the water Mulvey had
the gun.
“Stop!” he screamed. “Stop, or I’ll
shoot!”
Lessing wavered a moment, then made a
sudden rush for the shelter of a near-by
trunk.
He heard the crash of the exploding shell,
and simultaneously something struck him
high on the back, across the spread of the
right shoulder-blade. He was conscious of
a searing stab of pain that seemed to spread
over all his body. He cried out shrilly; then
the green earth swayed to meet him and he
sprawled face downwards, a rivulet of blood
from his back trickling slowly down the
white curve of flesh.
Mulvey looked at the still form question-
ingly, then sliudderingly relaxed. His eyes
fell to the gun and he turned it about, exam-
iningly it curiously, like a man only half-
awake. He started as he saw the name cut
deeply into the polished stock. Evidence
enough to hang a man! Hang God
above, what had he done?
In a wild panic of half-remorse, half-fear,
he began to seek excuse for his act, blaming
Lessing for not stopping when called upon,
even for having discovered the gems.
He swung the weapon up suddenly,
whirled it once round.his head and let it
go. It went far into the air, spinning like
some live thing trying to save itself, the
sunlight stabbing back from its smooth barrel
in quick, hard flashes. It plunged into the
billabong about twenty feet from the shore,
directly beneath the overhanging branches
of a towering gum.
The quarter-breed shook himself as a man
would after ridding himself of a bone-crush-
ing burden. He ran to Lessing’s clothes
and went through them in nervous haste. A
second time he searched, turning out every
pocket and feeling the linings carefully for
the stones the prospector had torn from that
shaft of blue clay back yonder.
He left them at last, his face heavy with
anger. He was still confident, although he
found it hard to keep his eyes from that still
figure sprawled grotesquely against the
smooth green of the further bank.
Half an hour later, with the ravaged pack
strewn in wild disarray, he was a different
,v,an - A pucker of worry bisected the low
forehead, and his face was sullen and fright-
erted. _ Lessing had found something valuable.
Hadn t lie seen him working? Gems of som-
(Continued on page 57.)


Ranking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £5,000.000
Capita] Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £8.309.065
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18,623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SIIELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. H. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER: C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : G 2 Bishoiisgatc, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 186 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,009
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 616,210
Ordinary Shares .. .. ~ 3,760,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,625
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
sdf
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Officer 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ynartii
ft i V
riuur
i' At
sd
ASTHMA
For the relief of
ASTHMA, CATARRH,
WHOOPING COUGH,
BRONCHITIS and
COLD IN THE HEAD
For outdoors, use >■ Potter’s
Smoking Mixture and Cigarettes
2/6 per Tin from all Medicine
Vendors.
POTTER & CLARKE, Lid. ,
\ Artillery Lane, J
|FnL London, Eng M
Xtbe Dominion.
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published In Wellington
the
Commercial. Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion'' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481. WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from —
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
Shipping, eie.
An Unexcelled Chain of Ports
PICTURESQUE Auckland , favorite sea-
port of Northern New Zealand ,* spark-
ling Suva, glowing like a jewel in its setting
of tropical beauty ,* far-famed Honolulu,
where travellers bask in an endless summer
and a thousand novel sights ; such is the
route from Sydney to Vancouver of Can-
adian-Australasian Liners .
"K
3^
Comfort at Sea
Broad white decks, comfort-
able lounges, well-equipped
cabins, and an ever-appetis-
ing menu combine to make
sea travel by the palatial
Niagara, Aorangi or Makura
a delightful holiday trip.
Particulars from
UNION STEAM SHIP
COMPANY,
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne, Cl.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN
mm
estii
mm.
rsm
mm
m
A VISIT TO JAVA
(The Garden of the East)
Seven weeks’ wonderful tour, via Brisbane, Queens-
land Ports, Thursday Island, Torres Strait & Darwin,
including 1 4 days’ escorted motor trip through Java.
Leaving Sydney on the 7th August, 1 929, by the
magnificent steamer
“MARELLA,” 7500 TONS
Swimming Bath, Gymnasium, Deck Cabins, Verandah
Cafe, etc.
First-class inclusive round fare covering all
expenses Steamer trip, Hotels, Motor-cars,
Guides, Tips, etc.:
From Melbourne £135 0 0
From Sydney £129 0 0
From Brisbane £l2B 10 0
WK
mms
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIP.
SYDNEY AND BRANCH OFFICES
YOU’LL WANT TO STAY LONGER
at
HAWAII
HAWAII
HAWAII
Less than two weeks away from Sydney, in
sunny Hawaii, you can be as lazy as you like.
A few days’ loafing and you’ll feel a new zest
for golf—-new vim in the morning plunge on
a lovely beach where the water never gets
cold — n ew appetite at the numerous hotels or
restaurants made for your holiday entertain-
ment. Inter-Island Cruises. Visit Kilauea
Volcano. Come then, wile away happy holiday
hours at
HAWAII, HAWAII, HAWAII
The round steamer trip from Sydney costs but
£75 up, first-class; or £55 up, second-class—
and first-class Hotel Expenses range from 12/-
to £3 per day with meals.
Fullest particulars from all Travel or Steam-
ship Offices or from this Office direct.
HAWAII TOURIST BUREAU,
Dept. 26, Box 162788, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
JRunic .... 12,500 tons, July 10
*Ascanius . . 10,000 ~ July 22
fEuripides . 15,000 ~ Aug. 6
*Nestor .. . 15,000 „ Sept. 9
tDemosthenes 11,500 „ Sept. 28
sCeramic . . 18,500 „ Oct. 26
*First class only, thirst and Third class.
£“<Jabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
WALES
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
f
£7,500,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 19 28> £88,982,585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DA\IDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
554 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world,
Shippin
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
Sydney Agents.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Mcllwraith,
MoEacliarn. Ltd.,
1 9 Bridge Street.
M elbourne S.S. Co.
Ltd., 1 Barrack St
Adelaide S.S. Co.,
22 Bridge Street.
Mcllwraith,
McEacharn, Ltd.,
19 Bridge Street.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith Ltd.
58 Margaret St.
Huddart, Parker,
Ltd.,
10 Bridge Street.
FOR BRISBANE. MACKAY, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outports).
Splendid Cheap Service
Via Suez Cemal
FAST OIL BURNERS
In conjunction with Sailings via. South Afiica.
Excellent Menu. Late Dinner.
Fares to London from £3B.
P. g 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For particulars apply
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Box 513 AA, 5 Q’Conn3 T l St., Sydney.
'Phone: 80701
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
SS WOLEONGBAR —Every Tuesday evem.ig;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/1/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
"Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddarf Parked!
j,.. Magnificent
'»» K Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HU DDART P ARK ER LI MITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
HAS ACCEPTED
%
sdf
d
NEWS PICTORIAL
with the utmost enthusiasm.
ALL THE NEWS I
ALL THE PICTURES!
The State’s First Morning
Pictorial.
Largely increased Sales
already assured.
Arrange Contracts at
present rates.
HEAD OFFICE: REGISTER NEWS-
PAPERS, LIMITED, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative: Eric K. Birks,
Sydney. Tel. X 5187.
Melbourne Representative: G. N.
Bednall, “Argus” Building, Mel-
bourne, Tel. F 4-502.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.


fm
mm
■ : :
l-mii
\s|p* V / W
My 1
Mfc WM
I § | I
gWBk. lilliJ
t'aby MARJORIE
PIDC O C K— aby
Competition winner.
Her mother writes :
“ From the time of her
birth until the present,
she has been bathed
exc.usively with Rex-
ona Soap.”
Let IBeilbuj lb© «i
lBcilbmj"
A child’s chief charm lies in the beauty and softness of
its skin. Round, chubby cheeks, little dimpled chin —
they lose more than half their charm if the skin is not
clear and rosy.
Keep your baby’s skin always fresh and clear —keep it
rosy—by using Rexona Soap regularly. Its medicinal
content provides a sure protection against many of the
skin affections which may endanger the beauty of the
velvet skin which is baby’s birth-right.
Rexona Soap is baby’s soap—so pure, so wholesome
and so easy to lather. Let baby be a “Rexona Baby.”
B£<c£
REXONA
SOAP
for Health and Beauty
J RS3
“THE AGE”
Established 185\.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of care
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
KNOW. Appeal to them through “THE AGE,”
which others have found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 75 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 123,533 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings.
“THE AGE”
circulation is in reality a body of
readers which has been organised
into a body of Purchasers.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Offices 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
sort, they’d be. Where could he have hidden
them ?
He dived into the billabong and swam to
the other bank. Lessing moaned protestingly
as he rolled him on to his back. Mulvey
started. He had taken it as a matter of
course that the other was dead, and was
genuinely shocked to find that lie was not.
He ran to the water and began to throw
handfuls of it over the unconscious man.
Lessing tossed restlessly, then his eyes flick-
ered open. Mulvey was by his side in an
instant, shaking a threatening fist before
his face.
"You had something. What was it, and
where did you hide it?” he asked.
Lessing’s eyes closed and he sighed wearily.
Mulvey shook him back to attention.
“Come on!” he urged. "Out with it or I’ll
throw you into the ’bong.”
The older man shuddered. What was the
good of keeping the secret? He was tired
and helpless, and this murdering brute would
torture him until lie got the truth.
"In the gun,” he said slowly. "Twelve
diamonds. In the shells in the magazine.”
Mulvey cursed viciously. lie pounced
upon Lessing, and shook him so roughly that
lie relapsed again into unconsciousness. Then
he began to haul Lessing towards the billa-
bong; but the thought came that he might,
need further information, and he desisted.
It was already late afternoon. Long
shadows from the trees on the, western bank
were darkening the surface of the pool. In
about an hour the sun would be gone. He
swam to the other side and stood on the spot
from which he had thrown the gun, in
imagination retracing its flight and marking
the spot where it had disappeared. He dived,
urging himself down and down until his
lungs felt like bursting, and crazy patterns
of light gyrated before his eyes. Three times
he vainly attempted to reach the bottom;
then he swam to the bank and sat to think
over the situation.
He rose at last and began to hunt among
the scattered campgear, pouncing on a bush
gridiron, made from a bent strand of fencing-
wire. This he retwisted into a rude grap-
nel. He joined piece after piece of the
lashings from the packs and the guy-ropes
from Lessing’s tent until he had a
hundred feet of line. To this he connected
the grapnel, weighted it with the stirrup-
irons from his own saddle, and, standing
on the bank, as near as possible to the posi-
tion of the sunken gun, began to cast and
haul in.
But the method was both slow and un-
satisfactory. With every haul the wire
caught on snags or on the roots of the trees
along the bank, and after a wasted half-
hour he climbed the spreading tree over-
hanging the spot where the gun had struck
water.
The first branch, only about ten feet
above the water, was dead, rotted where
it joined the trunk. He examined it dubi-
ously before climbing further. Twenty feet
above the decayed limb was another, roughly
paralleling it, and he clambered out along
this until he judged himself to be immediately
above where the gun should lie.
He lowered the grapnel until he felt it
touch bottom, almost at the full length of
the line. Stretching himself from side to
side he dragged it this way and that, hang-
ing to the slippery limb precariously, his
ears close to the strand of rope, hoping
to catch the clink of steel on steel.
He became intent on the work, so intent
that he forgot everything, even the woundt d
man on the opposite bank.
Lessing’s arm moved feebly, then his eyes
opened. For a time they were placid and
expressionless; then, as the memory of Mul-
vey’s treachery fought its way into his
brain, they tilled with a red and glowing
light of rage.
lie raised his head cautiously and began
to search for the man. The scattered camp-
ware and the jumbled clothing, thrown here
and there as the searcher had discarded it.
held his attention. A little further along
the bank the three horses fed contentedly.
A movement of the knotted line depending
from the tree across the billabong drew his
eye. and im followed the strand upwards
until he saw Mulvey stretched along his
lofty perch.
He watched for a time in puzzl 'd amaze.
Fishing! What for? He worried long at
the problem before the solution came. The
gun! Yes, it must be that. Mulvey had
become frightened and thrown it away. Now
he was trying to regain it.
He chuckled gleefully. He would have a
job to find it, that was certain. Mulvey
was even now hauling up for another east,
and the wounded man watched him inter-
estedly.
He struggled painfully upright and waited
while Mulvey gathered the slack of the
soggy rope, saw him balance himself to
withstand the shock of easting the heavy
line. A sudden surge of blind fury over-
whelmed him, and he opened his mouth in a
wild yell of insensate rage. He stood rigid
and stiff, with one arm pointing straight at
the man in the tree.
The yell swelled up and up, a crescendo
of sound that beat on Mulvey’s ears like
the trump of doom. The quarter-caste started
nervously, so that his clinging legs relaxed
their grip for a moment. He began to
slip, and attempted desperately to save him-
self.
lie fell, turning over and over. He saw
the smooth waters of the billabong rushing
to meet him at an incredible speed; then
the knotty grey bulk of the dead limb came
into view immediately below’. He screamed
and threw his hands out despairingly. One
struck the smooth surface with a paralysing
shock; then his body turned and his head
crashed on to the branch as he hurtled past.
Lessing watched him strike the water, saw
him rise and sink again, making no attempt
to swim.
The ripples vanished, leaving the surface
calm and oily-looking, red-shot with the re-
flection of the dying sunlight. From the
timber at the back of the billabong came a
gust of ribald jackass laughter.
The old man sank slowly to his knees. A
vagrant thought straying somehow into the
immensity of pain and horror that was his
mind. What was it Mulvey had said. Par-
rahanna homestead only about five miles to
the south? If he could catch a horse he
would be all right.
The will to live burned up bright and
strong, pushing back the cold grip of deadly
lassitude. He could do it and would. He
struggled painfully erect and began to lurch
through the greying dusk towards the quietly-
feeding
The Call.
FRANCIS OSBORN'S TALE OF THE CALL OF THE SOIL.
SUSAN CALDER’S narrow eyes glanced
up at Mrs. Lucas. “It’s a hard job,”
she said, “but if you’d known my
brother in the old days you’d understand —
you’d realise why I take a pride in it.”
Mrs. Lucas was impressed. Everything in
the Calder place impressed her, from the
chill perfection of this living-room to the
tragic resignation in Miss Calder’s voice.
The lifeless figure in the wheeled chair on
the verandah was the keystone of this im-
pressiveness. _
“Anyone can see it’s ’ard for you, Miss
Calder, an’ I’m real sorry for you. But
I’m sure you get your reward.” She glanced
once more round the elaborate, tidiness and
cleanliness of the room. “You make a beau-
tiful job of it,” she added.
“I do my best. There’s not much that
Bob lacks in his home, at least.” Miss
Calder’s quick sigh gave Mrs. Lucas the
fleeting impression that she really rather
liked the tragic job.
“There’s nothing can be done—l mean,
there’s no hope of a change, is there?”
“Oh no—quite hopeless. The Sydney
doctors said that if Bob could come to feel
that ho was really alive he would very
likely get back the partial use of his legs
and be able to get about on crutches. Dr.
Raven said it was one of those cases where
the patient had to be his own doctor—Bob
himself was the only man who could cure him,
he said. But that’s worse than hopeless,
because Bob doesn't care any more.’
Rose, her arms full of flowers, stepped
lightly up on to the verandah and glanced
through the living-room doorway. She saw
the hard grey head of Miss Calder and the
heavy sunburnt face of Mrs. Lucas and
smiled and nodded to them, going on round
the verandah towards the still figure m the
chair at the far end. She put the roses on
the little table.
“Good morning. Bob.”
“Good morning.”
No trace of interest showed in the man’s
listless eyes. His square strong hands
lay side by side on the rug across his knees,
His head was as lifeless as his hands. Rose
was accustomed to this; her smile did not
falter. Not by any flagging of her forti-
tll “T * iei miracle be denied hei.
I brought you some flowers, dear.
uf.r r uauKs. .
“It s a beautiful day. She smiled again
her longing eyes watching him. ‘You used
!hem V Bob ” 6 SPnnS m
“Did I?”
She felt the rising of the barrier between
her mind and his. She was accustomed to
this; this was another constant against
which her spirit did not cease its warring.
She knew that somehow his return to life
could be achieved, that the faith and con-
fidence for that end could only come from
her. “Yes. Don’t you remember how the
morning mist over the earth, the smell of the
earth, the feel of the earth on your hands
used to inspire you?”
“I don’t remember.” The flat murmur no
more than troubled the' air and was gone,
“It’s not so long ago. Sometimes I think
I can see you now, your forehead all gleam-
ing and sweaty, and the sleepy fire at the
back of your eyes.”
“I don’t remember,” he repealed. “I ani
here in this chair until I die in it or in that
bed Susan will help me into to-night. That’s
all.”
Yet he did remember, she knew. His
fields and pastures, the earth his plough-
share turned up, the rich clucking sounds
of the yard, all the fruitful smells—these had
been the breath of life to him. He was an
earth man, full of power and quietude, con-
tent that when he was dead this patch of
earth should be stirring and sweet because
of the labor of his bands,
The long fall, the clutching at a dead
branch that came away in his hand, and
this chair, had shut all that out. He thought
0 f himself as already dead,
Yet—her brave betrothed; her heart
yearned over him. “Won’t you come back,
beloved, for a little moment?” she pleaded,
“What from?” he asked her wearily. “And
what to?”
“To me. To the earth you so loved. From
this bitter darkness you make for yourself.”
A. dead smile twisted his lips. He glanced
a t the rug over his lifeless knees. “You
flatter me and my powers,” he said,
She felt the old heavy dreariness descend
on them. For nearly two years she had
been beating her wings of hope against the
walls of a tomb. Day after day she had
come here knowing deep in her heart that
somehow it could be done, that her man
could be brought back, howbeit on crutches
and with no great heroic body to strive with
the earth,
The bodv was, only the body, her heart
told her. This was the death of the spirit
Bob had shut himself away, had accepted
defeat
« It is so futile/ > he murmm . e{l . “You
waste yourself. I see you day by day
destroying yourself in unavailing effort. Be-
lieve me, I am dead, Rose, and am better
alone in ’ my death.” He looked up at her
smiling his chin smile . “j don’t want to
live ‘ And th at makes all effort useless.”
ne sc l uare white hand moved towards the
0^! er aud enfolded it. The gesture seemed to
P ll .* *1 , a i I t3 r uAo tie situation, as if a eur-
*iai fallen on a stage already dark,
~ vN ose „ sl , ed her quick sott smile. “Righto,
Uobby, she said. 'But you don’t forbid me
(Continued on next page.)


Whitest
Purest
Best
i
9
These are not idle words, they are
backed by the largest Gin Distillers in
the World and guaranteed by a repu-
tation enjoyed and jealously guarded
for over 150 years ! Gordon’s Gin
is produced in London, England, by
the original process of distillation from
the original recipe, the secrets of
which belong to the HOUSE of
GORDON and have been handed
down through generations ! It is for
this reason Gordon’s Gin has the
largest sale at Home and throughout
the World, having no rival for Purity
or Quality.
Goir
mi’s
©IN
Guaranteed distilled
in London, England
J j&JL
mtr
#6
Gordons
dry Gin
t H OCA K O
r~ LIiTIIUO IN LOMIioH '(
TANQUEHAY. CQHDQN j
\==
The Heart of a
Good Cocktail
BY APPOINTMENT.
The Largest
Gin Distillers
in the World
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
An Ideal Winter Home —The Most Sheltered Spot on the Harbor, with Private Beach and
Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort—Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds
and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’ trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines). Management M. E. BURROWS
the street was Golden Corner, where land
had sold for £55 10s. a foot ten years
before. The six Doric columns of the post
office were soon in sight, with the barracks
opposite. The road veered to the north,
and there was a whiff of the sea on the
breeze. Most of the buildings in Lower
George-street owed their origin to Mac-
quarie, and were surrounded by the twelve-
foot walls in which he delighted—it was
old Sydney even then. In another moment
he would round the Battery, where eight
guns from the old Sirius defended the port.
Then he would be in Windmill-street and
at the store.
Fanny and William were responsible for
the . furnishing of the new house. They
brought some of their effects from the store,
but the wreathed and tortured sideboard,
the marble urns that flanked the clock,
the very solid and prosperous chairs and the
handsome red carpet were new. Pictures
of decorous subjects in heavy, gilded frames,
and a set of the poets in calf, protected
by glass, gave the place a cachet of gen-
tility. An immense canopy bed that turned
the Quartermaster’s thoughts—and, alas! his
tongue—to grandchildren was bought for the
best bedroom, and the dismembered parts
got up the narrow stairs with immense effort.
A wardrobe of like proportions, a double
washstand loaded with immense and very
flowery crockery, and some pictures of ex-
treme and touching innocence completed
a bedroom to which William felt he might
bring his bride without shame.
When the move was accomplished, and
the new house settled into working order,
entered on a period of insufferable
dulness. She reflected that it was no use
becoming interested in this house, as Adela
would arrive soon and take it from her.
Of Maud she saw little. Balmain was a
long way from the City-road, and Fanny
always found too many Gillams there for
her taste. Maud’s first child, a girl, had
been born at the beginning of the year, and
was, Fanny felt, one more stranger come
between them.
( Xcxt track’a instalment, will report the
arrival of Adela and what followed.)
to come here and make love to you out of
the past, do you?”
“I can’t,” he told her listlessly. “I can’t
do anything now. But it is useless.” He
looked up at her again, his face grave in its
shadow of lost faith. “All that I wanted lias
vanished.”
A deeper significance than that of the
words themselves brought a sudden flush to
lev face. But her unconquerable eyes still
smiled at him.
Walking down the verandah she saw Miss
('alder busily dusting the immaculate orna-
ments on the shelf around the room.
Spring sped to its zenith, and Rose’s unde-
feated footsteps came daily up the gravel
path and round the verandah to the far cor-
ner. He was changeless, hut her indomitable
spirit would not acknowledge this, lit* was
Bob. Yet whenever she came out into the
open and challenged him, the barriers slid up
between them. Yet he was Bob. Firmly
and steadfastly she went away and came
back, went away and came batik.
One day Miss Calder went to Sydney for
the day, and Mrs. Lucas, flustered and im-
pressed, took over the impeccable Calder
household until her return. She apologised
for having to bring young Jim with her.
“He’s only just, turned seven, an’ I’d be
scared to leave ’im at ’ome,” she explained.
“He could play in the garden.” Miss
Calder suggested.' “He couldn’t do any
harm there.”
“That’s what I thought," Mrs. Lucas
assured her. “His dad gave him a little
spade and a tool or two for his birthday
yesterday, and he would bring ’em.”
Young Jim was not at all impressed by
this place. He arranged for himself and his
activities a circular bed in the corner of
the lawn, and until well into the afternoon
he was here an entirely absorbed gardener.
He planted a good many seeds and seedlings,
and at arbitrary intervals dug them up
again to note progress, which was surpris-
ingly slow.
The silent man on the verandah offered
no comment or advice, a good and unusual
quality in a man. Jim spoke to him once
or twice, and found the total indifference of
the replies soothing. He had confidence in
this mail —so much so, indeed, that later
lit* took the dug-up seedlings and told the
man to hold them for him until he was
ready to plant them again. In his usual
impersonal way the man took the wilted
plants and held them in his big white hands.
Hose coming round the verandah found
him doing this. He did not look up as she
approached. Close to his chair her foot-
steps paused and ceased; she could hear the
sudden thunder of her heart. This was not
the Bob of the two years. Her spirit knew
that alive set of the shoulders. She caught
her breath and put her hand on his arm.
“Bob !” she whispered.
lie looked up and held out liis trembling
bands, tlieir whiteness stained and smeared
with mould.
“Look, Rose!” She watched his quivering
lips.
All the death had vanished from his fact*.
Tears were streaming from his < yes; a radi-
ance was upon him.
1I«* threw his arms around her neck, and
drew her to him.
“To-morrow,” he said, “we go to the
farm.”
The March of Change.
Secretly, part after part,
The law of our fathers drops to the
soundless deep;
The mother’s worshipping heart
1 >rowns in a torrent of arrogant voices that
sweep
Through her spirit, sobbing in pain
Like grief for a first-born slain.
Faith never imagined the prophets she
loved and revered —
Battered to atoms, stoned in the market-
place, jeered—-
Would gather their time-soiled books and
creep
Out to the shadow to sleep in distressless
sleep.
And she shall die in her fears
For this false faith of new years,
And never know her comforting prophets
again.
Her wild sons said:
“The law of our fathers is dead,
Wiped out from the statutes of Time like
the tracks of the tribes
Were effaced by simooms from the howling-
desert they trod
When they sought for the City of God!”
For new generations have arisen with
blasphemous gibes,
With the piercing vision of newer
unprophesied times,
And have shattered the temples of gods who
were helpful and strong;
While great-bodied men in the newly
discovered climes
Know naught of her God but a name in a
ribald song!
Loud from the factory’s smoke and the
rhymster’s rhymes,
The rumbling streets and the dread
Procession of toil-stained men whose hearts
have bled
In the new unprophesied ways, some spirit
cries:
“Dead as the arm of Moses,
As the drunken Persian’s roses,
As the rain that is lost in the sea, the
moments in years that are fled,
The God of our fathers is dead.”
For the world lias changed!
Changed and the gods must change!
How dissonant, ruinous, strange
The spitting shriek of steam and the thunder
of wheels,
And all the pitiful things that our time
reveals.
The horror of battle, the fearful artillery
peals.
The hateful stare of death-drunken armies
ranged
Face to face in the srnok. ;
The town’s voice ragged t id shrill,
And the unctuous priests who prate of the
sera pin in !
Did He dream of these when He spoke
Of- the godly mission of Love and the
godly will?
flow dissonant, ruinous, strange
Would these sound to His ears as He sat
on the hallowed hill.
To their ears who watched with Him!
Man after man and god after god shall
arise and serve his turn
And fall back on the unrewarding night;
The new generations shall face new fears
and teach their children to spurn
The ancient law and the ancient fashion of
right!
Is there no eternal light?
No utterance true to us now as ’twas true
when the world began?
Must the conquering spirit of man
Smite Faith with its soaring pinions till
Faith seems a charlatan?
Ts there no eternal law?
But birth and the palsied growth and death
with the bloody maw?
Where are the prophets who saw
From their gaunt faith a goal that ended
the day?
Who uttered their truths to the worldly-
like men who were happy with truth —
Were their dreams but the groping vision
of a fabulous cosmic youth?
Was their law but the palliative law of a
time that has wandered away?
Or was their faith too pure.
Their law too deep to endure
Tlie treacherous feet of fact and the blight
that came
Secretly over it all
Till love and the prophets’ call
Were stilled by noisy waters and the vandals
told their shame?
Blundering over the road of years the spirit
of man must go,
Nursed in the arms of accepted things and
flayed by desire to know.
And none can tell where the l-oad shall lead,
nor yet why the road is there:
But all men know that the corn is sweet
and the face of the morn is fair.
For more than all godsi and famishing faith
is life with its terrors and glooms,
And more that all creeds are the bodies and
spirits of men;
And more than all service of prayer and hymn
is the field as it glitters and blooms
Or tin* rain that sings in the dark till the
sunlight again.
So laughing forth the men shall sail the
sunlit tide of years.
True as saints to the fact of life, the joy
of life and the tears;
For out of the cauldron of questioned things
the one truth rises alone:
“Though gods be dumb and heavens be lost,
the world is still our own!”
So cheerly over the tide of years the sails
of the galleons blow —
If there are no gods, if there is no home in
Heaven—even so !
VICTORIA.
FURNLEY MAURICE.
Economy.
Olio taper gives sufficient light
To see by; why have more?
Even as a love in a life’s night,
One taper gives sufficient light.
If in the quickening of the sight
That was as dead before.
One taper gives sufficient light
To see by, why have more?
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.


rS?
SStefc
m
m
m
WESTIN CHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—iioCMfes * CHURCH, Brisbane, mumnn u
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, W ellington IUNIOHD WEST, N.
VJctorinn Office —“Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD Adelaide
S.'WALES
S.A.
“BRISBANE COURIER’
FIRST
In Queensland in
Circulation - Advertising - and Influence
The “Brisbane Courier” carries considerably more advertising
than any other daily or evening newspaper in Queensland—
and Is greatly increasing its lead every month!
Such _is the confidence National, Interstate and Local Advertisers
have in Queensland’s biggest and most progressive daily newspaper.
Specimen copies and rate cards from ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Coy., “Courier” Building, Queen St., Brisbane
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere— -all over the State, in Town and
Country— this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the pecpie, and each
issue is eagerly read by men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.’
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 223
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: ‘Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
Cite Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price 1 id.
advertiser newspapers ltd.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone, MA3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
THE DAILY MAIL
BRISBANE
Is logically the first big daily to select in Queensland for any advertising
campaign. It gets results! s
It is always bright and is progressive to a degree.
And its net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to
° f *** ° ther daUy “ Q ueensland * Its companion
THE SUNDAY MAIL
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine. These two journals
give a cover in Queensland that is second to none. For rates and
other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE,
Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
, • ' v . t . * y :> \
If any illustration in “THE EULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
UanMMmm,
dtipet indigeatm,
%unm m&patm
take- *
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
vT'i
<2?
>l™
rot
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know —from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
TUESDAY—Price 3d
sr
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
5>
$
V
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner ’• “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable jrom:
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd., Mr. V. W. Margetts, Mr. W. G. Dougan,
73-75 Patterson Street, 122 Flinders Street, 701 Herald Building,
Launceston. Melbourne. 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
*
>t K
4^
&
0°
o**
i6V
s®’
s® e ,
«9 4
l\6 v '
*<•* ..••** ...*• *


f
53
n
m
a
Bft
w
s
V
I
\
to
/
>
/
/
\'
k
A
✓
\\
DEWA
DEWA
DEWAR!
DEWAR 8
DE WAR'S £
DEWAR'S DE
DE WAR'S DE WA
A R'S DEWA R'S DE WA FI’S
AR’SDEWAE’SBEWAR’S
AR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S
.. fewAR'S DEWAR’S DE WAR'S
"DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S
‘S DE WAR'S DEWAR'S DE WAR’S
WAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWA R* S
DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DE WARD Da A wWAh a
DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’SDEWAE’SDEWAR’SDE WAR'S IiEWIRW u&WAK a
DEWAR'SDEWAR'SDEWAR’SDEWAR'SDEWAEi|L>£WAk;SnE\VAK;bt>fcWAK a
DEWAR’S |
t>fwa DEWAR'S DEWAK'S DEV/ Asrc'b
mWAmi hmv'mts KiM Rmil war’s dewar’S dewar/s dewar'S dewar’S
DBW/SsiOTtt®PjPlfAß’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S
DEWiWimiI^F^DEWAR’SDEWAR'SDEWAR'SDEWAR'SDEWAR'SDEWARE
DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S
DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S
DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S
DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWA R’S DEWAR'S
DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWA R'S
DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S
DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DE WAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S
DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DE WAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DE WAR'S DEWAR'S
DEWAR'SDEWAR'SDEWAR’SDEWAR'SDEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S
DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S
DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWA R'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S
DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’SPfWfSrS JMMt&m §lp|AE'S DEWAR'S
DEWAR'S DEWA R' SDE WA R»*> WWgji ft SDEW A K' a
DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAKA»
DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAJ^jffWf*^%o£w-AR’S DEWAR'SDEWAR’SDEWAK'b
DEWA R’S DEWA R’S DEWA BKpiwAR’S dCwAR' S DEWA R' S DEWA R’S DEWA R 'S
DEWAR’S DEWA R'S-DEWASrSDEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S
DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAB*?DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S
DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S
DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR'SDEWAR’S
PEW""”'"
DEW
DEW
DEW
DEW
DE
ru>
;rl
D
R
W
. £ <
E
D
EW
R
D
W
D
A
5
; /, I ; PS h M
SI WAR’S I)E WAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DE WAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S
DE WAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DE\f AR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
.... ... .... . ... «... Jk ..wmmjmam*: 'MP JM9 v v ~ */• > v/->
’A R’S
A R'S
R’S
‘A R'S
’A R'S
DEWAR'S DEWAR
DEWAR’S DEWA
DEWAR'S DEWAR*
A
S
'S
EWAR'S DEWAR'S
DEWAR'S DE WAR’S
D EWAR'S DEWA R'S
) E WAR'S DEWA R’S DEWA R' S DEWAR'S D EWA R' S DEW AR' SDE WA R'S DEWA R'S
DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S .DEWAR’S
DEWA R'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
3EWAR"S D E WA R’SDE W A R 'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S PE WAR'S
