

■-- t't l ' ,'i 1 • V V,- ".1 •
■. > ; . -•-*' •
:., >S ■ - v
;■ ',:.v
<B*
1
-v ■ •:?'
1 OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
iiiiiiiiiiiiliiilllill
iiiliiiiiiiiiiitniiMiijiiijiHJJJJ
iiii'iiiiiSiiiiiiiiKiii!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!',!!!!-!
K
i
i ill
oil
m
• Mill,
SSSSiUSKSg :«••••
R
***** JjjJiiiiiiii'iUi ■***?*llS!
- iiiiiiiiiiiiitiii»!!«!!.'yi!i!
■•iiiitim
IV
oV
,'(s)trj
K^s
0^
rf* 4 *
f
in?
(A
t
2*l
otf y
3u
THIS new Screw Cap is so simple! Just a
A twist and it’s off —just a twist and it’s
on, with all chance of leakage or “corking”
eliminated. And inside the bottle is a whisky
of smooth, even quality that cannot be bettered
by any in the world.
The
NEW SCREW CAP
is
SIMPLE, SAFE, SECURE
The Perfectly Hermetic Seal
Applied
Under
Vacuum .
, ■
QUALITY a»HISK£ BOTTLED
UNDER THE SUPERVISIOK
CUSTOMS'
(pat oh}
The Bulletin
! The h&fity <ieAuxf, ~tv- cLxtj, «
Vol. 50.—N0. 2595.
Wednesday, November 6, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


W/'RITE for the Library Catalogue and
terms, and lists on all subjects, which
will be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCIOS BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B
(LYSAGHT
3
O
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries,
All users of Galvanized iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
r rn
v
H
mil
HW 3
HAIR
9-
need
G
HERES
•umu-
dsf
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for —'■
SfcQjlLvriS CMEX/CAN)
VkdnuJt StaJm
’-REMOVES THE GREY'* 1
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (,4/p), 6d. being postage.
sdf
11l Daily Use
over all the world
THOUSANDS of women have come to
regard Cuticura as the true natural aid
to a lovely skin and attractive hands
and hair. Regular daily use of Cuticura
Soap, assisted by Cuticura Ointment
when required, purifies and beautifies
the skin, cleanses the scalp and keeps
the hair live and glossy.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W.
/
the VENUS '
plans the uioiid
The first rough suggestion—the skilful
and accurate working out, the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive effort, call for the use of VENUS
PENCILS. Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the design of a simple household
article, the pencil is the first requirement; the
VENUS the first pencil.
' 7 Blacklead Degrees 68-9 H, sd. each, 4/9 per dozen. Super Copying (Medium and Hard),
Oti. each, 5/9 per dozen. Venus Copying (Medium and Hard), 4d. each, 3/9 per dozen.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your fancy, write
to the Manager, who will quote you price for the
KILL. THE TYPHOID FLY.
“MUSTDIE”
THE NON-POISONOUS POW-
DER, is Infallible in Destroying
jail Insect Pests, but is Abso-
lutely Harmless to Canaries,
Dogs, Poultry; in fact, all
Animals and Man.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
Sold Everywhere. Price i/-
HOUSE
FLIES
ARE
POTENT
CARRIERS
OF
DISEASE.
m 3
JafS
V -
The Red Page
Frank Harris
I shall never forget the shock I sustained
when I met Frank Harris last year.
I was in Nice and heard he was residing
there. I had read most of his books, had
corresponded with him and had received pre-
sentation copies of many of his woi'ks. But
I had never met him. I determined, there-
fore, if possible to unearth him, and meet
him face to face. I visited the local office
of the American Express Company and in-
quired for his address, and was informed he
had an apartment on the outskirts of Nice.
Knowing that he was well over 70, and
anxious to make sure of his identity, I
said, “This is Frank Harris the writer, and
he is an old man, of course.” “He is the
writer, all right,” was the reply, “but he
is not an old man. He is a middle-aged
man.” I was afraid I was on the wrong
track, but determined to visit the address
and ascertain for myself.
I presented my card to the maid and
almost instantly I heard a loud voice boom-
ing, “Wallace Nelson from Australia. Come
in. Come in.” Going in I found coming
towards me, with outstretched hands, Frank
Harris. And then I received my shock. This
was no man over 70 years of age. It was
the personification of mature manhood.
Frank Harris is short, but he is deep-chested,
broad-shouldered, has an unfurrowed face,
a fresh complexion, a flashing eye, a
dynamic manner and a loud voice. He does
not talk, he booms. I think he is the most
vital bit of humanity I have ever struck.
He had hardly shaken hands when we were
sitting discussing, over a whisky and soda,
pretty well all the problems of the universe.
Harris has a sort of good-humored ill
nature. In discussing his contemporaries
he appears to be attacking everybody, but
he is not really half as severe as he sounds.
Occasionally his pretty young wife would
deprecate his savage criticism of some
celebrity, when he would stop in the middle
of his denunciation, laugh at himself and
say, “Yes, yes. I suppose so. He’s no
doubt a very good fellow.” There can be
no question about Harris’s egotism, yet it
is so candid, so unabashed, and so splendidly
preposterous that one cannot help half
liking it. He talks of Shakspeare as a man
talks of an equal. “He did not come into
his own,” he said, “until he was dead more
than a hundred years. And I’ll probably
share the same fate.” Harris sent his “Life
of Oscar Wilde” to Upton Sinclair, who was
so impressed with the work that he immedi-
ately wrote saying, “You have written one
of the three great biographies of the world.”
Harris at once wrote an indignant letter to
Sinclair challenging him to name the other
two.
Harris is not so much a man of letters
as a man who has taken up letters as a
profession. Behind his books and greater
than them is the man himself, with his
amazing interest in everything and every-
body, his abnormal, almost uncanny, alive-
ness, his astounding capacity for drinking
and enjoying the rich wine of life to the
very dregs.
Harris has written many books, some of
them of the highest order of excellence.
But beyond all question the most arresting
thing about him is himself. I shall never
forget the Harris I saw in Nice—the man
well on to being an octogenarian with the
body, the face, the eye, the voice of ripe
manhood, so splendidly, so terribly alive
that, for the first time in my life, I was
almost tempted to question the inevitable-
ness of death.
WALLACE NELSON.
Australian Books Wanted (2)
A book we badly want is a good popular
history of Australia in one volume; written
with style as well as knowledge. Jose’s
and Scott’s school histories are far from
reaching the height required.
After that, we vfant an Australian bio-
graphical dictionary in one volume; with
twenty times as many names as are found
in the miscellaneous “Australian Encyclo-
paedia.” This desirable work is useful for
library reference as far as it goes; but it
is costly and awkward for general use. In
the field of biography, not only does it omit
many Australian lives of national interest,
particularly in the pioneering field; but the
treatment of the lives it includes is some-
times feeble, inadequate or erroneous. The
chief editor, returning to England, published
a book in which he put some of the things
omitted or incorrectly stated in his ency-
clopaedia—for instance, a part of the truth
about the vital pair of Wentworths. Johns’s
“Notable Australians” is a useful work of
reference biographically arid. If ah Aus-
tralian biographical dictionary were com-
piled by an editor who was a judge of
“copy,” the book would make one of the
most valuable and readable volumes in the
Australian literary field. I am sorry to say
that this biographical work was better done
by English writers in Australia in the
’seventies and ’eighties. So was the work of
the gazetteer.
We want a gazetteer of Australia; con-
taining the names and descriptions of all
physiographical features and of all towns
and villages. Bailliere’s Victorian Gazetteer,
1865, brought to date, is an excellent model.
The class of information given there must
now be sought in the publications of several
States with difficulty and doubt. The States
should be taken separately; to each State
a volume; so that the volumes will be
handy and moderate in price. Books that
cannot be held in the hand, and books
which, in order to give you information
you want and can use, are crammed with
information you do not want and can never
use, but which you pay for nevertheless,
should be kept in reserve in the libraries.
How many mugs are sighing for the money
they spent on the “ Encyclopaedia Brit-
annica”—not because the “Encyclopaedia
Britannica” is not good and useful —in its
place in the libraries—but because the
Encyclopaedia is mostly of no use to them
here, now, to-day! The immense tome of
Webster’s Dictionary seems to me another
“white elephant” for ordinary people; how-
ever serviceable in literary use and in the
libraries. All the dictionary the average
man needs or can use is found in the small
Oxford volumes; with better English autho-
rity; obtainable at one-tenth or one-fortieth
of the price of the U.S. monster.
After that, we want a really good popular
account of the aborigines of Australia;
similar to J. Cowan’s account of the Maori
of New Zealand, and better. In one handy
volume; well illustrated; not a dull record,
but a fascinating story. After that, other
books that will make Australia live in
the minds of common, Australians arid
others; instead of burying Australia decently
in huge mounds of words at high prices in
cumbersome volumes. I agree that a lot
of little books may be nearly as much a
nuisance as vast books, for general use. The
volumes I have in mind are everybody’s
convenient compromise; up to 500 pages
Bvo, brevier type, in a stout cover. I
would not complain if I were given a book
like Beeton’s Dictionary of Universal Infor-
mation—or a one-volume Larousse ency-
clopaedia—reduced to the size and scope of
a book representing Australia instead of the
world. In 100 years we shall have it.
Here I have suggested work for Austra-
lian Universities; which, richly endowed arid
subsidised as they often are, do little for
Australian literature beyond instructing
students. If you point to Wood’s “Dis-
covery 1 of Australia,” I retort that we still
await half a dozen similar books con-
taining the history of Australia by epochs,
carried to the present time. Scott’s volumes
for explorers take the story a little farther
along a travelled road. Then back to
Collins. And after Collins? The pioneers
in one enthralling volume? The struggle
for representative government, not sketched
or tediously narrated, but made as passion-
ately alive as it was for Bland? The rush
for gold; past all the fragments, still await-
ing a historian of genius? And so on.
The Senates of our Universities should set
able graduates to work researching, record-
ing, compiling and possibly creating Aus-
tralian literature. It is not to the point to
say that the Universities equip students
for the task. Such work, requiring years
and lives, must be helped with money be-
forehand.
A. G. STEPHENS.
An Australian at Large
For many years it has been my ambition
to arise from the nadir of obscurity as a
paragrapher to the zenith of the Red Page
as an author. And having arrived at that
highest plane of literary criticism it hurts
one’s vanity not to be trounced by the god
in the machine. Instead, my “Pleasant
Career of a Spendthrift” has been praised
by the critic with faint damns.
Hence this my journey to Canossa to beg
forgiveness for having been blatant about
the merits of Australia and the virtues of
the Australians. Emile Zola, when present-
ing his first book, “The Confessions of
Claude,” to the reviewer of Figaro, asked
that it should be abused rather than that
some agreeable nothings should be said
about it. During the last 50 years nearly
2500 pars of mine have been written for
The Bulletin, every one of them pro-
Australian, and the editorial divinities who
shaped those rough-hewn paragraphs in-
culcated a fierce desire in me to witness
the birth of a true Australian spirit, which
alas! has not yet been born. In this the
only great Australian journal that has for
50 years worked untiringly and continuously
to educate Australians to love and believe
in their native land, my poor effort to urge
my fellow countrymen that their first duty
is to love their own country and their own
people above all things, has been rebuked.
Why is it wrong to praise our own men,
women and children? Why is it not right
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


because their advertisements embody “Truth in Advertising,” you know you
can depend on everything Anthony Horderns’ say.
I
m
3S
S' addlerv
from Australia’s finest Department
u
Anthony Horderns
(The Senior Store).
At “The House of Economy” you will find a very complete range of Saddlery
and Harness for your choice, and each article not only offered at an economical
low price, but Satisfaction is fully Guaranteed with every purchase made at
Anthony Horderns’. Complete Catalogue sent Post Free on Application.
YX6S,
Northern Stock Saddle. Hogskin
seat. Kip flaps and skirt; Victoria
facings, skeleton panel, extended
girth straps, plated tree. well-
finished and comfortable saddle.
(YX65.) Price £B/5/-
Stock Saddle, with good-quality hog-
skin seat. Plated tree. Strongly
made. (YX59.) Price .. £4/10/-
With hogskin seat and pads.
Price £5/7/6
Stock Saddle, hogskin seat, capped
kneepads, Victoria facing, skeleton
panel, extended girth straps, plated
tree £6/10/-
Boys’ Stock or Pack Saddles. Hog-
skin seat, plated tree. A good handy
saddle for youngsters. (YX75.)
Price £4/3/6
Pony’s Snaffle Bridles. Plain fore-
head band. Price, ea. . 8/-
With colored and inlaid forehead
band. Prices, ea. . . 8/-, 8/9, 9/6
Child’s Riding Pads, with kneepads
and hand grip. (YX6B.) Price, 297-
Stirrup Leathers, Irons and Leather
Girth, 16/6 extra.
Riding Pad Fittings. Price, 9/6
extra.
(Not illustrated.) Kemp Pattern
Saddle, all over selected kip, blocked
seat. Very suitable for hard use.
Price £8
With Hogskin Seat. Price . £B/5/-
YXS7.
Queensland Park Saddle. Hogskin
seat and pads. Kip flaps and skirt.
Victoria facing. (YX57.)
Prices £6/7/6, £B/5/-
London Color Park Saddle, hogskin
seat and pads, half-panel plated
tree. Price £5
Park Saddles, hogskin seat, plated
tree. Price £4/10/-
(Not illustrated.) Wieneke Pattern
Stock Saddle. All over selected kip,
capped kneepads, Victoria facing,
skeleton panel, extended girth
straps, plated tree. A popular
model. Price £9
Dept., Ground Floor. Carriage paid City and Suburbs only.
Anthony Horderns’
Harvester Sunshades.
W
I
For attaching to Harvesters, etc., enabling the
driver to work in the shade. Strongly made
with tan duck cover, solid steel ribs and stout
pole, with attachments for fitting to the
machine. 60in. spread. Price 29/6
Carriage paid City and Suburbs only.
Dept., First Floor ( Men’s Mercery).
Postal Address
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
Telephone M 2 If 01
Dai/ and Night


/
FULT
Results
/
SIZE.
heretofore unheard of
in a Low-Priced motor car
it
/
7(
U VERY day brings
E additional emphasis to
the self - evident fact that
the improved Plymouth is
to - day’s great example of
progress in the low - priced
field.
There never before has
been a low - priced car of
Plymouth’s full-size roomi-
ness-incorporating such
rugged strength and stability
—that could be driven with
real comfort at top speed
hour after hour —so smooth
and flexible, so quiet, so alive
and so comfortable.
Plymouth is the only low-
priced car with the advanced
scientific advantages of
Chrysler engineering and
designing --- with Chrysler
4-wheel hydraulic brakes.
It is simply impossible to
appreciate all that to-day’s
Plymouth is and does until
you sit in the driver’s seat
and get the actual feel of the
car. We invite you to test
Plymouth in a demonstration
of your own choosing.
y
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS
New South Wales ... Larke, Neave & Carter, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Ward Motors, Limited, Brisbane
West Australia Wm. AttWood Motors, Ltd., Perth
South Australia .... O. T. Rodda Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania Metro Motors Pty., Ltd., Hobart
New Zealand Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea ...... W. R, Carpenter & Co., Ltd., Rabaul


m
rm
m
fib
-
m
S\M*S9S*K*>.*S
%m
iV«\4S«
m
X9\9\«i
9\»\9\
X 3
WK«X*XA
9V
«X«\
%S9M , .9'HX
9\*
m
*'.*S%*. **.»>.*?.
«N»\*X*N9'-9
/
o Jsl
. -. ' :,
sssasassss
MSSSSSSSS
SSSiiSS®
liiili
;-;viiv.i...;v;;;iv
The famous
AERTEX open weave.
ROPICAL suns and
sultry heat have no terrors
for the man who wears
AERTEX underwear.
The myriad air cells of
this wonderful fabric com-
pletely insulate the body
against dangerous extremes
of temperature and even
triumph over the fierce
noondav heat. AERTEX
is the ideal underwear for
the tropics.
In two popular qualities —
the original 931 and the
lower-priced 88
quality.
sdf
Obtainable from all Hosiers,Drapers and
Outfitters. In case of difficulty apply to
Mr. H. O. S. DREW
313/315 FLINDERS LANE,
MELBOURNE, Australia.
Representative of the Cellular Clothing Co.
Ltd., who supplies Wholesale Trade only.
sls'l
’•tv’
STRESS
'' AERTEXTq®!
, ‘lOnoO*^;**^
'■?'|i® TKu Label on all Garments
See this label on all varments
to boast about what our fathers and our-
selves have done to create a first-class
country out of sterile wilderness in 100
years? Is the reply, “Because it is not done
by other people except the Americans. It
was not love of country which carried Aus-
tralian soldiers to South Africa to help take
their country from the Boers, nor was it love
of Australia that took our boys to Gallipoli.
Without belittling our immediate ancestors
in their North Sea archipelago, may not one
insist that the good of Australia is the first
and best objective for those born here? In
its magnificent policy of championing every
Australian cause in finance, politics, art,
literature, manufacture and protection The
Bulletin has done more towards the crea-
tion of an Australian spirit than any other
educative agency. Why then reprove me
for boosting and boasting my native land
and its people? My Chauvinism is not
harmful to anybody and deserves praise
rather than blame, encouragement more
than suppression.
My critic has dealt gently with me other-
wise, excepting that he seems to think ill
of my comparison of the bank crisis of 1893
with the borrowing crisis of 1929. As a
community we have been living on borrowed
money for 15 years and have nearly reached
the end of that era of wrong doing. The
Bulletin has reiterated that theme a thou-
sand times since 1915. These swollen
deposits, £332,141,918 in all the trading banks
and £264,653,297 in all the Savings Banks, are
a hoard of savings made out of the high
heap of the £752,475,000 borrowed during
these squandering loan years, 1915-1929.
Just as the Frenchman St. Simon was cen-
sured for telling the French people the
truth about their politics, their philosophy
and their religion and was after his death
worshipped by a cult for pointing out the
errors of the people, so in the years to come
The Bulletin, and, incidentally, myself, will
be highly commended for having preached
the need to borrow less, to earn our foreign
interest by production, and not to discount
our future prosperity so heavily in the pre-
sent. For 6,300,000 people of all ages and
sizes to owe £1,200,000,000 and to have to
pay £62,000,000 a year in interest is a
monstrous crime, not to posterity, but
against themselves. Logically The Bul-
letin ought to agree with me on that point
and should condone my arrogant boastful-
ness about this good country and its fine
people.
God bless Captain Cook for finding Aus-
tralia !
G. D.MEUDELL.
Galsworthy Books
Two important Galsworthy books follow
each other closely from Heinemann’s— John
Galsworthy, A Survey, by Leon Schalit,
and A Modern Comedy, the three novels
and two “interludes” which carry on the
great Forsyte chronicle from the “Saga”
and conclude it. Schalit, in a book that
every admirer of Galsworthy will enjoy,
gives a brief but efficient biographical sketch
of his hero, a more detailed friendly criti-
cism of his novels, plays and short stories,
and he glances at the poems. Touching
upon the books of the “Comedy”—“The
White Monkey,” “A Silent Wooing,” “The
Silver Spoon,” '“Passers By” and “Swan
Song”—he finds the author’s technique
maturer, more polished than it was in the
“Saga,” but, sensibly, he suggests that it is
yet far too early to inquire whether “Saga”
or “Comedy” is the greater.
Influence on Galsworthy’s work, he says,
is primarily Russian and French. In his
early years Galsworthy steeped himself par-
ticularly in Turgeniev and De Maupassant,
and something of Turgeniev’s technique and
of De Maupassant’s irony, polish and reserve
is to be found in his style “ of narration.
Except Dickens and perhaps Thackeray a
little, no English writer has influenced him,
unless it be Shakspeare. To-day, at the
age of 61, he has reached full maturity.
May he yet give us much that is great, beautiful
and unexpected. Not only England and America,
we all need Galsworthy—for as man and as writer
he not only appeals to the world, he enriches the
world.
Both “as man and as writer” Schalit
manages a penetrating picture of him. As
writer, author of a work unique in modern
literature, the many fine facets of which
Schalit turns carefully into view. As man,
kind-hearted, lover of and horses, blegt
with good health and a perfect wife, never
himself other than rich, but a champion of
the underdog, an excellent speaker who
would have made a brilliant barrister or
statesman but for the fact that he cannot
speak impromptu, possessor of a great fund
of energy, getting the best out of life and
putting the best into it. He works only
during the mornings, though between tea
and dinner he revises, going over his MSS.
again and again, correcting both the first
and second typewritten copies several times.
He does no preliminary work; never pre-
pares a scenario to a play, or a plan or sum-
mary to a short story or novel. He works
“by inspiration,” and his work ends when
inspiration ceases. He seldom uses one
person as a model; two, three or more merge
into the single figure One wishes that
Schalit had gone on with these engaging
personal details; for all their meagreness
they are rich with the flavor of “shop,”
and hold out some suggestion for writers
uncertain of the way they are going.
Galsworthy, in a characteristically terse
preface to the “Comedy,” explains that he
uses “comedy” because a comedic view must
be taken, a comedic significance gleaned
from such a restive period as that in which
we have lived since the war. “An age which
knows not what it wants, yet is intensely
preoccupied with getting it, must evoke a
smile, if rather a sad one.” To render the
forms and colors of an epoch is beyond the
powers of any novelist; but he admits that
to try to express a little of its spirit was at
the back of his mind in penning the trilogy.
It can, however, “at most be snapshotted
while it hurries looking for its future without
notion where, what, or when that Future
will be.”
The England of 1886, when the Forsyte Saga
began, also had no Future, for England then expected
its Present to endure, and rode its bicycle in a sort
of dream, disturbed only by two bogies—Mr. Glad-
stone and the Irish Members.
The England of 1926 —when the Modern Comedy
closes —with one foot in the air and the other in
a Morris Oxford, is going round and round like a
kitten after its tail, muttering, “If one could only
see where one wants to stop!”
Everything being now relative, there is no longer
absolute dependanee to be placed on God, Free Trade,
Marriage, Consols, Coal, or Caste. Everywhere being
now overcrowded, there is no place where anyone
can stay for long, except the mere depopulated
countryside, admittedly too dull, and certainly too
unprofitable, to dwell in.
Everyone, having been in an earthquake which
lasted four years, has lost the habit of standing still.
And yet the English character has changed very
little, if at all. The General Strike of 1926, with
which the last part of this trilogy begins, supplied
proof of that. We are still a people that cannot be
rushed, distrustful of extremes, saved by the grace
of our defensive humor, well-tempered, resentful of
interference, improvident and wasteful, but endowed
with a certain genius for recovery. If we believe
in nothing much else, we still believe in ourselves.
He adds a word that might make those who
believe in a “boost” policy for Australia
think again;—
Why....do we continually run ourselves down?
Simply because we have not got the inferiority com-
plex and are indifferent to what other people think
of u 5.... Incidentally, it might be worth the while
of those who own certain public mouths inclined to
blow the British trumpet to remember that the
blowing of one’s own trumpet is the insidious
beginning of the inferiority complex. Only those
who are strong enough to keep silent about self are
strong enough to be sure of self.
Books Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a com-
mittee nominated by the Associated Book-
sellers of Australia and Maoriland. It is
printed as a guide to books of merit.
General Literature. —Birds and Green
Places, by A. Chisholm; William Dampier,
by Clennell Wilkinson; Waters of Africa, by
Aloysius Horn; Great Modern British Plays,
by J. W. Marriott; Cote d’Or, by 11. M.
Tomlinson; A Short History of the World,
by 11. G. Wells.
Novels of Literary Merit. —The Good
Companions, by J. B.' Priestley; Windfall’s
Eve, by E. V. Lucas; A Modern Comedy,
by John Galsworthy.
Novels for Popular Reading. —The Laugh-
ing Queen, by E. Barrington; Summer
Lightning, by G. P. Wodeliouse; Pamela’s
Spring Song, by Cecil Roberts; This
Strange Adventure, by Mary Rinehart;
Temple Tower, by “Sapper”; Blood Royal,
by Dornford Yates; Crashed, by E. W.
Savi; The Man Who Found Himself, by
Naomi Jacob; The Duke of York’s Steps, by
Henry Wade; A Modern Comedy, by John
Galsworthy; Windfall’s Eve, by E. V.
Lucas; Dance, Little Gentleman, by Gilbert
Frankau.
A Satchel of Books
Death Comes to Dinner, by Sinclair Gluck
(Mills and Boon). The murder which opens
most detective yarns is here perpetrated
with an arrow. After the usual crowd of
innocents have incurred the detectives’ sus-
picion, the unlikeliest character in the book
duly turns out to be the assassin, and all
ends unhappily for him. The author is one
of America’s most accomplished horror-
mongers.
Famous Houses and Literary Shrines of
London (Dent) is a small but tightly-packed
book that earns its title. The “shrines” —
places that housed pretty well all English
literary giants of the last few centuries —
are glimpsed from outside or in by Fred-
erick Adcock, whose drawings are supple-
mented by biographical and descriptive
details compiled by A. St. John Adcock,
chiefly from contemporary accounts.
• Marryat’s Novels. Dent’s, who have just
concluded their neat Duchy edition of
Quiller-Couch with “Merry-Garden” and
“Two Sides of the FacS,” are now reviving
their fine 1896 edition of Captain Marryat’s
novels. There will be 22 volumes in the
edition, of which the first two are “Peter
Simple” and “Frank Mildmay.” The books
are excellently turned out in dark blue cloth
with gold lettering, are illustrated, and at
3s. 6d. net arc as close to a gift as any
bookbuyer is ever likely to get. “He has
created a priceless legend,” Conrad wrote
of Marryat, and to say any more would be
superfluous at this date.
Home: A Colonial’s Adventure, by Alan
Mulgan (Longmans; Angus and Robertson).
It says enough for this book that, first
published two years ago, it has insisted upon
being reprinted. Mr. Mulgan is a Maori-
land journalist, and this re-issue of his book
should win him his dues west of the Tasman.
He visited England, as J. C. Squire in a
prefatory note says, “in a receptive and an
affectionate frame of mind” —a condition that
ought to be grafted on to sundry writers
who travel in the opposite direction —and
from liis observations he made a delightfully
companionable book, rich with England and
all that English is. Woodcuts by Clare
Leighton illustrate; 4s. 6d. buys.
The Snakes of Australia, by J. R. King-
horn (Angus and Robertson). Do snakes
eat their young? Do they suck cows? Can
they catch themselves by the tail and run
downhill in a hoop? These and other ques-
tions that have been fought over in Abo-
riginalities are touched upon by the author
in a general introduction, which includes
usefuj advice on the treatment of snakebite.
The pocket-book contains descriptions of 34
non-venomous and 105 venomous snakes,
illustrated with 137 natural-color drawings
by Ethel A. King, and photographs by G.
C. Glutton. A very serviceable publication
for expert or for bushman where snakes are
troublesome —actually or in argument. Price,
10s.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) trill be taken of communications f
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun■
tarily submittedj and no MS. will be return ed unless stamps accompany.
Lesley L.: Yes, the most powerful, and
for that reason the most dangerous... .John M.: Just
missed getting in....F.W.: Much obliged; but the
financial position has completely changed since 1920.
. ...J.M.: Too superficial. The real trouble is, not
that the rural person gets too much, but he has to
pay too much.... Shore C.: Your mystery is too
well lit... .P.L.M.: Sack that spider and get a
typewriter... .Oriel: “Booze” a poor substitute....
8.5. G.: Would need good music to carry it....
T.H.: Passable but not publishable... .H.McL.: “The
Mosman Lady” might be a tropical lover, but she’s
cold inspiration. .. .R.K.: Has its moments, but not
enough of ’em... . Cynara : Interest rather restricted.
....A.A.S.: “The metre is new.” It may be new
but it isn’t metre... .H.D.: Don’t miss by. a great
distance, but they do miss... .U.L.: Try another
tack.... T.W.N.: No need to put age on. It’s a
bit obvious. .. .A.W.: “Again —fame,” “ship—did,”
“on —along,” “tears —queer.” Do you never fluke
a rhyme? Taiho: “The Molyneaux” has gone
down under her own steam... .Woodki: The swaggie,
run in and made to do the garden, gets even: —
“Blooming blazes!” the choleric constable cried:
“Strike me pink if the cabbages haven’t all died.”
In rage he bent down, pulled a plant or two,
And found his suspicions were all too true.
The swaggie, nursing his bitter wrong,
Had sown his revenge as he went along
(“Thinks he can swindle me? Well he_ can’t”)—
He had cut the root neatly off every plant.
. ...8.T.D.: That idea belongs to too large a
family... .F.M.T.: Almost worthy of “Bellerive.”
.... W.W.: Treatment better than idea....
Scot: Some day a poet will have a good
look at a city park, and then we may get
a real poem about the bush... .M.L.C.: Left us
c01d.... V.G.W.: “Jim Scroggins” has had return
fare arranged... .R.K.: Shares the same fate as the
dog... .A.P.M.: Vegetarian ode doesn’t suggest a
good cook. You ought to roast it....G.K.: Hope
you’re better on the pigskin than the inkwell....
K. : (1) No township named Irish Lords in
N.S.W., but a station of that name. (2) Dr. C. H.
Souter wrote the poem called .“Irish Lords”....
R.H.L.: “Art Failure” —it’s just that... .P.S.:
Fragile stuff... .8.H.: Verse is a poor medium for
spinning a yarn... .P.R.: Something stiff about them
a 11.... Warooma: Their religion is their own affair.
Surely you wouldn’t judge them by a test that was
not applied to Foch... .M.F.: “Dot and the Kan-
garoo” is an Angus and Robertson copyright
L. : See “The Pleasant Career of a Spendthrift,”
by G. D. Meudell 5.A.M.8.: Landsborough kept
a journal of his expedition but the original is
missing. It was published in Melbourne in 1862;
copies may occasionally be bought second-hand. Other
books dealing with Landsborough’s explorations are
Favenc’s “History of Australian Exploration” and
Jack’s “Northmost Australia,” vol. I M. 8.: No
room for travel sketch W.G.D.: Sordid when not
silly E.A.P.: “Shadow of Death” anticipated its
fate H. J. 8.: Almost too weak to totter home
K.M.R.: That tooth doesn’t bite N.W.H.: Send
stamps for return of serial... .J.H.: Has no dis-
tinctive quality J.McK.: Dreary monologues
R.G.McD.: Study in the nude clothed and sent home.
. ...A.S.F.: All fish yarns viewed with suspicion
A.C.A.D.H.: “Rabbits” struck off the menu P. 8.:
Can’t find anything “dramatic” in “The Retreat.”
The other is slight A.S.: The cane-cutters go
north: —
From far-flung Liverpool Plains and Bellborne
Where they lately rode boundary in the west,
From shearing sheds others sojourn
To the tropic North a stake to wrest.
When at long last the season is over
And they gather in all their dough,
They all run like cows to the clover—
To the main street hotel bar. they go.
They talk of cutting cane and burning
And everyone drinks of beer their fill;
Whilst quenching a thirst all seasons burning
Their stake is getting drunk by the hotel till.
....Ole Blue: Sorry; it doesn’t suit. .. .F.E.T.:
Keeps to a well-worn track... .R.G.McD.: Not our
sort. .. .D.H.: Found “The Great Grey Rock” heavy.
. ...D.A.: Good thought, but the verse doesn't carry
it... .1.G.D.: Tale of the mug who turned out a
champion rider has at least one whisker on it....
P'.C.: Well off our track. Try elsewhere. .. .Bertie:
Can’t employ your brand of shearers... .R.McC.:
Average pretty 10w.... Barney: Parody isn’t as easy
as all that... .A.1.G.: Don’t care for it... .M.J.W.:
Body and tail disconnected.. . .E.H.J.P.: You have
the material without the art to use it. That may
come if you are very young... .M.V.: Dismal and
sordid.... M. J. : Try a sports magazine... .N.S.G.:
Type of article for Saturday supplements... .Pippa
Passes: So does “Fear”.... J.D.W.: Material there
but construction poor. Persevere.... Riada: No
chain for lineal descendant of three-headed dog. . . .
C. 8.: Incredible blackguard deported... .T.A.8.:
Interesting only as an old-time reminiscence....
L.W.: Blew your “Camp Fire” 0ut.... J.M.K.: No
sprats to spend on catching hypothetical whales....
E.M.E.: Makes its point obscurely... .P.T.F.: Had
there been a Labor candidate in Wimmera, Stewart
would not have survived the first count; and the
same applies to Hughes, Maxwell and Marks. Have
another look at the figures and remember what
happened to Groom and Mann. The Labor candidates
for the Senate got 17,827 votes in Wimmera last
year. Certainly the Nat. ticket was one short; on
the other hand, there was no swing to Labor, as
there was everywhere in Victoria last month.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.C.F.H.: Vague scratches with a pencil... .J.L.:
Not here, but you might click elsewhere with an
improved drawing.... R.L.: Much better than samples
you sent before... .C.W.M.: Resplendent chauffeur
and haughty pug go out together A.C.: That
drunk began mistaking hairbrush bristles for whiskers
in the last century G.V.T.: Drag patriot from
flagpole and bury him....M.H.: You peopled living-
room with deformities S.N.: Dentist won’t draw
a cheque F.M.D.: Not a subject for humorous
treatment —not that you treat it humorously
1.L.F.: Your “whole heart lies in art work,” does
it? But you mustn’t forget your hands and head.
....R.W.: Promising if they are not copies....
S.P.: Still on the outer N.H.: Returned.


sd
/V.
m
Wm
a
.. f i
: f m
» ' -V-
J
( /P*
\ 1
■
■
:
■
v~
i .;■ J
SB
; •>
Ml
1 :
......................
■
/
'
V
. ,
■■■
111181
■
gam
mmmm
■■■■■
Min
5 j!
-
Big '
■H
g*s§§t
i Hi
I if *
* r W?
n
ICIGU 6 t
9


The Bulletin
Vol. 50.—X0. 2595.
November 6. 1929.
DAWN?
"Federal leaders begin to see brighter times ahead .... The Loan Council has approved of the borrowing of £30,000,000 during the coming year.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
214 George Street, Sydney; Box 252188.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 86 Southampton Street, Strand, W.G.t .
Regent 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4 s • ; 0 months, 12s. 6d.;
8 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: Woz., Id. United Kingdom •• joz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional 4°z-, Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: ioz. or part thereof,
Id. Flsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
FRANK HARRIS, by Wallace Nelson .. • ■ 2
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS WANTED—
By A. G. Stephens .. .. .. 2, 5
GALSWORTHY BOOKS 5
BOOKS WORTH READING 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
OUR GOLD GOES NOW 8
THE REVELATION OF ST. JOHN (WREN). . 8
THE INCURABLE—OUGHT WE HELP
HIM TO PAINLESS DEATH?—
By James Edmond . . . . . . . . 8
VICTORIAN ELECTIONS 8
THE BASIC-WAGE FRAUD 8
The New York Crash—No Danger
Here • • • • ' • ■ 9
WHAT SHOULD OUR GAUGE BE?—
S. AMERICAN EXPERIENCE . . . . 9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 9
POLITICAL POINTS 10
POVERTY POINT 11
“Sea Legs,” by Percival II
PERSONAL (with three caricatures) . . ... 13
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. .. 14, 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
WILKIE REVIVES “THE RIVALS” . . . . 16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
NORTH BROKEN HILL 18
FARMER & CO 18
AUSTRALASIAN PAPER & PULP .. ..18
EQUITABLE LIFE 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 23, 25
Free Service Department 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 32
WHEAT TESTS IN THE MALLEE . . . . 28
FEEDS AND FEEDING 28
TOMATO GROWING AND MARKETING . . 28
PREPARING CHRISTMAS POULTRY . . . . 32
SMOKE-OH 34
PEN AND PICTURE 37
NEWEST TALKIES 37
SPORTING (illustrated) 39, 41, 42
V.R.C. Derby 39
CANTERBURY PARK 39
BUSINESS, ROBBERY 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 45
THE MADE-IN-AUSTRALIA SHOW .. ..45
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 48
THE CUP CARNIVAL 48
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP .50
“Merry Christmas!” 47 > 51 > 52
TWO COMPLETE SHORT STORIES—
“THE CONQUEROR,” by Margaret Fane
and Hilary Lofting 55, 57
“THE WIRELESS BLUFF,” by Randolph
Bedford 57,58
VERSE. —By Myra Morris, D. P. McGuire,
Una Currie, Frederick T. Macartney.. 52, 58
Next Week.
One of the Best Sea Stories ever written
in Australia.
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1929.
OUR GOLD GOES NOW.
The new Federal Prime Minister has cabled
to the High Commissioner in London
“emphasising Australia’s financial stability,”
and Granville Ryrie has issued the state-
ment to the press “for publication through-
out England”; and England is probably
wondering in a mild way what sort of
country it is which requires to publish such
frequent assurances that it is beyond sus-
picion. It isn’t a habit with Dominions
in general. If one lady in the family thinks
it necessary to cable periodically that her
virtue is unspotted, there is a tendency to
wonder why she thinks it necessary while
the others mostly leave their virtue to take
itself for granted, the same as the British
mother does. And, anyhow, the tale fits
in badly with the one the new Prime
Minister usually tells about the position
being awful and the awfulness being due
to his predecessor and not to himself.
Actually the position may not be awful;
but it is at the least difficult, and all that is
being done to improve it is being done,
not by producing more or by doing with
less of other people’s products, but by
shipping off our few liquid assets that are
any good for settling foreign debts. Last
June the Commonwealth Bank sent away
a million sovereigns to our creditor coun-
tries. In September it shipped away
another million. It has now arranged to ship
a further four millions. This doesn’t come
out of current production, for the gold out-
put is one million per half-year—not six
millions. But the gold reserve held against
the note issue is some £13,000,000 more than
the legal minimum of 25 per cent., and this
surplus may be legally and honestly applied
to relieve the prevailing distress. But the
surplus, which is the hard accumulation of
years, can be used up only once, just as the
embarrassed duchess of fiction can pawn
the family diamonds only once. After that
the old difficulty is bound to recur unless
her Grace reforms.
The inwardness of the position was thus
explained by the chairman of the bank:—
“In view of the shortage of Australian
balances in London, the board has con-
templated latterly the advisability of ship-
ping gold overseas.”
Australian gold balances in London are
absolutely essential to pay for imports and
to cover interest and sinking fund payments
on external debts, and if exports are insuffi-
cient to provide such balances, and external
borrowing is under a cloud, the shipping
abroad of the surplus gold reserve is the
only way of gaining time. The S. M.
Herald also put the matter frankly:—
“We must be prepared to lose gold when
we have contracted for a quantity of imports,
for all of which the balances available from
exports will not pay. At all costs we must
maintain our credit overseas. _ What we have
contracted to buy must be paid for. To have
complaints by exporters to Australia that
they cannot get their money out of Aus-
tralia is most damaging to our financial
status.”
But that covers only part of the case. It
will be most damaging to the credit of
Australia if the public creditor, who is of
infinitely more account than the exporter,
has to make complaint that he can’t get
his money out of Australia, and can’t get
it at all except out of his own pocket by
supplying more loans and continuing to do
so. And he is in exactly that position, and
is likely to remain there until (or unless)
Australia makes a drastic cut in its import-
ing business and its importing bills.
It is natural that our creditor should begin
to be alarmed at the regularity of the call
made on him to pay himself. “The shortage
of Australian balances in London,” out of
which the present difficulties arise, is
simply the result of John Bull for once
not lending enough to replenish them. In
1926-27 the Commonwealth’s exports didn’t
pay for its imports by £19,576,227; but the
foreign financier lent enough to pay that
and the interest bill to boot, and it was
described as a time of prosperity. Lately
the foreign financier has been shy of lending
enough to pay himself his interest. That
is why Australia is putting its liquid capital
on board ship, and sending it away to the
scene of trouble.
Supposing “exporters to Australia find that
they can’t get their money out of Aus-
tralia” it may lead to the bankruptcy of
some importing concerns; and it will be a
curious kind of bankruptcy, for they may
have abundance of money to pay with, yet
in the absence of “Australian balances in
London” it won’t be the kind that counts
for anything on the other side. Still, if the
matter stopped there, it would be only a
private catastrophe. But if the public
creditor can’t get his money—and it is hard
to see how he can if the exporter can’t—
it will be a national catastrophe.
Meantime no objection can be raised to
the Commonwealth Bank sending abroad
such gold as it can spare, though unless there
is some definite plan for. improving the
adverse balance of trade it is like Napo-
leon’s desperate tactics of throwing in the
Old Guard'at Waterloo. The improvement
of that balance of trade is the thing of
such vast Australian importance that it
completely overshadows everything else.
THE REVELATION OF ST. JOHN.
One way of raising money for the redemp-
tion of some of Federal Labor’s election
pledges would be to open a few Govern-
ment racecourses and get that valiant Labor
supporter John Wren to run them. Re-
markable evidence concerning that gentle-
man’s Brisbane ventures —he owns other
tracks in Melbourne and Perth—has been
extracted by the Royal Commission which
is probing the proprietary-racing business
in Queensland. Mr. Wren, it was said,
bought the Albion Park course for
£31,000 and sold it for £450,000, after
“Joynton Smith had offered me £330,000
for Albion Park and Kedron Park.” Kedron
Park cost Wren and one Nathan £12,000;
it was sold for £250,000. Seven hundred
thousand pounds for two seedy racecourses
in one of the lesser capitals I
The sales were curious transactions. Albion
Park, with a shut-up shop called Sandgate
thrown in, was handed over to a concern
known as the Brisbane Amateur Turf Club,
the valuation being £45,000 for Albion Park,
£3200 for Sandgate, £lBOO for plant {both
courses) and £400,000 for goodwill, and the
terms £lO,OOO down and £4OOO a month.
Though the club has paid Wren and his
friend about £172,000, it is heavily in arrears
and could be pushed out at any time, with-
out a penny, as its chairman admits.
Asked by Henchman, J., to name some
of the members of the B.A.T.C. the secre-
tary said he could not remember any more
than eight or nine. On the other hand, the
chairman of the “amateur” club that bought
Kedron Park proudly testified that his show
had 19 members; “it is like C.esar’s wife,
he said—“above suspicion.” This gentleman
acknowledged that the club had kept on
Wren’s manager, was behind with its in-
stalments (£20,000 p.a., reduced to £lO,OOO
p.a.) and had not been threatened with fore-
closure or the exaction of interest on
arrears.
Good comrade Wren, examined by bar-
rister McGill, said that he had bought the
Ipswich and Doomben courses as well as
Albion Park, Sandgate and Kedron Park;
that “we were trying to establish a mono-
poly, and we did not want it known”; that
he was prepared to sell Doomben, “one of
the finest courses in Australia”; that he had
sold three tracks to the Vic. Trotting
Association “on the same terms as I sold
Albion Park,” and that it was “probably
true” that he had taken between £200,000
and £300,000 out of that course alone. He
maintained that proprietary racing was a
legitimate form of investment, and that the
Government had no right to restrict week-
day meetings or exercise any control over
racing. But he thought that the Govern-
ment should find work for “the thousands
of people in Australia who are starving.”
“You agree that more work should be
done?” the millionaire friend-of-Labor was
asked. “There is not enough to go round,” he
replied. “The employing class can’t find
sufficient work for the employees.” With
that he was allowed to leave the box and
go back to Melbourne, where he receives
his immense tribute from Queensland. The
Commission was perhaps too polite to put
it to him that the state of the labor market
has an obvious connection with the vast
and demoralising craze for betting and the
diversion of so much of the national income
into pockets of people who do nothing to
earn it.
Australia has entered upon a time when
it will have to get rid of commercialised
forms of recreation which are parasitic and
degrading. Mr. Wren’s evidence may not
lessen the queer admiration felt for him by
Labor politicians, but it makes out an over-
whelming case for the abolition of pro-
prietary racing and the restriction of the
genuine sport to Saturdays and public
holidays. The proprietary racecourse has
no more right to exemption from the anti-
gambling laws than any other betting joint
conducted for private gain. It should be
placed in the same category, and then it
would soon cease to exist.
EUTHANASIA.
In this article Mr. Edmond con-
siders whether we should not be
entitled to bring a painless end to
the lije of a sufferer from incurable
disease.
The case of a young Englishman who shot
his mother, an incurable cancer patient,
at her own desire, to end her troubles,
revives a question which has cried out
for settlement till it has become hoarse
with the effort. Everything seems to have
been done decently and in order, the
defendant being first put to sleep by means
of an opiate so that she wouldn’t be pre-
sent at the embarrassing moment of her
own execution. The scene was Nice, in the
south of France, where invalids, incurable
or only miserable, congregate; and that
should be a better place in which to justify
the act to a jury than England or Aus-
tralia. But even France isn’t logical enough
to legalise the killing, at their own request,
of hopeless and pain-racked victims, and
thus put the business on a safe footing.
So there remain two alternatives. The
patient may commit suicide if he or she
can reach the means of death, with great
delay and trouble, and may make the end
an additional woe through ignmance and
clumsy apparatus, and may fail after all
and add more prolonged pain to pain which
was much too long already. Dropping out
of windows and such-like devices are un-
satisfactory as well as nasty. Or a kindly
relative may do the deed, in an amateurish
way, and may either lie about it, pleading
that he was furiously attacked by the bed-
ridden invalid and acted in self-defence,
or he may own up and take his chance.
He also takes the advertisement and the
legal bill for the defence. It is unfortunate
that there is in many cases only his word
that the sufferer asked for death and wasn’t
hurried unwillingly over the border for
monetary considerations. One way by which
the slayer can prove his disinterestedness
and at the same time pay a touching tribute
to the dead is by finishing the tragedy
with suicide.
Life being on the average much longer
than it was, .the proportion of people who
fall victims to complaints like cancer, which
belongs chiefly to age 35 and upwards, is
much greater than it used to be. And
the improvement of medical science tends
to keep incurables alive longer than might
othrwise be expected. But the time in-
variably comes when even the most modern
scientific knowledge has to admit that the
position has become hopeless, and that the
best that can be looked forward to is a
helpless and more or less painful waiting
for death, the waiting to be relieved as far
as possible by dope.
The basis of the objection to painless
and voluntary death for good cause shown
is religious. The orthodox legislator fears
that the person who takes a legal short-cut
out of hopeless trouble may imperil his
soul, and he is much more afraid that by
legalising the short cut he may imperil his
own. On this latter point some legislators
are possibly more worried than the value
of the article seems worth. Both capital
punishment and self-obliteration are
allegedly prohibited by the sharp and
sudden Scriptural injunction: “Thou shalt
not kill.” But the very next chapter con-
tains the command that if the wicked event
happens the killer shall assuredly be
executed; so it is a primitive command,
given in primitive days, that capital punish-
ment shall be inflicted with punctuality and
dispatch. The law doesn’t apply to the
suicide, for, having killed himself, he is dead
and can’t be put to death. In fact, Scripture
is curiously silent on this subject, though
theology has made a great disturbance
about it.
Therefore, though the self-destruction of
a healthy citizen may be considered a
crime as depriving the State of an asset
(if that argument will have any effect), and
also as an act of folly seeing that it cuts
short a time of hope and promise, yet the
extinction of an existence of hopeless pain
is in a wholly separate category. Its con-
tinuation may even lead to spiritual de-
generation, as suggested by Mrs. Job.
Of course an essential element of the
case is that the extinction should be done
with every legal precaution, and be found
free from any shred of suspicion.
JAMES EDMOND.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Wide Open to Invasion.
Labor’s official organ justifies the wiping-
out of citizen service by the Scullidores
as follows: —
“Mr. Scullin’s aversion to military train-
ing is due to liis belief that if fate calls
the cards for another bloody war it will be
fought mainly in the air, and that land arma-
ments, as they are known to-day, will play
a relatively small part in the hostilities.
The belief is not shared by those Pacific
Powers which have the strongest objection
to our alien-exclusion legislation. Japan
has a peace establishment of 214,340 officers
and men; Soviet Russia has 1,000,000 men
liable for service each year, and last year
trained 800,000 of them; and China,
according to the “Statesman’s Year Book,”
1929, “has over 3,000,000 men under arms.”
The Sctjllin Government is not so
demented as to believe, in face of such evi-
dence, that land warfare has come to an
end. It is reverting to the device, which
was condemned so heartily by Labor 17
years ago, of passing our defence liabilities
on to England. Apart from the facts that
the present British Government disapproves
of a White Australia and that the British
Navy no longer commands the seas, there
is the Locarno Pact, which pledges Britain
to come to the aid of either Germany or
France if one is attacked by the other.
This means that, in the event of another
European war, the Commonwealth would
have to shift for itself. No Air Force could
save it, as Messrs. Scullin and Theodore
would realise if they had attended the last
war. France, which probably knows more
about land fighting than any other nation,
and has the biggest Air Force of any Power
except Soviet Russia, supports an army
with a peace establishment of 413,578.
♦
Government by Narks.
Victoria is to elect another Leg. Assembly
on November 30. The last election took
place on April 9, 1927; there was then in
office a combination of Country party men
and Nationalists headed by Allan. But
the new House was divided into 28 Labor-
ites, 19 Nationalists, 10 Cockies, four
Country Progressives, two Liberals and two
Independent Liberals; so Allan went out
and Hogan (Labor) came in.
Hogan stayed in till November, 1928.
Then the Country Progs., who had con-
descended to support him so long as he did
not tread on their toes, turned against him
and McPherson (Nationalist) arrived. Now
the Country Progs., with Labor’s assistance,
have defeated McPherson.
All this time Victoria has been drifting.
The public debt has reached 160 millions,
and Governments have been reduced to
dipping into loan funds for interest on
other loans to keep up the pretence that
the State is paying its way. Dunstan, the
Country Prog, leader, asserts that “this is
the time to start ‘developmental works’,”
but the country is cluttered with develop-
mental works; and, anyhow, the money
can’t be got. Railways and soldier-settle-
ments are in a bad way financially, and the
wheat harvest (45 million bushels last year)
is not expected to exceed 25 millions. The
State needs a respite from profitless political
strife. It needs a strong Government, the
strongest it can get.
No one party has a monopoly of adminis-
trative ability, nor is any one party likely
to be returned with a majority. The situ-
ation therefore calls for a Ministry of all
the talents—an elective Ministry, in short.
If the Country Progs, will not undertake
to support such a Ministry, a clean sweep
should be made of them, and of the Liberals,
too, if they take the same stand. The
worst thing that could happen to Victoria
in the political line is another rapid suc-
cession of weak Governments dependent on
the fleeting favor of narks.
4
The Basic Wage Fraud.
This whole basic-wage fixing is a fraud
and a sham; and it wouldn’t last a week
if politicians in the bulk were even moder-
ately honest.
The hypocrisy of the whole business was
strikingly illustrated one day last week when


ff v>
Conductor: Another tuppence, please, for the child
Bu_L \ THERE I5nV A CHILD?
Conductor : "oh yes there is—the child you g,et raid for
EVERY TIME YOU LIFT YOUR WA.G,es ( ”
Little Bilul 'Can 1 have another piece, mother ?•
Mother.; (< No, don't be qreedy ! youve had quite enough.
Little Bill *♦ w y&s, mum. But I had to share that last bit with i>
the THREE - FIFTHS OF a LITTLE BROTHER \ HAW ENT <3(OT,
*But I didn't g,et a pair of child's Boots’!
Bootmaker*, “yes,you did--- they were invisible boots foethe
invisible child Bill, qets paid for every vveek”,
cc " * •)*>
Bill; Here, \m at the wrong shop, \ Lived a good lif-Ej l did.
His Majesty But that mythical, kid and three-fifthstkw
YOU WERE RESPONSIBLE FOP —'THEY NNEPP.E PERFECT LITTLE
devils”
THE OTHER SIDE OF THE STORY.
“It is proposed to fix the basic wage in N. S. Wales on the assumption that every man has one child and three-fifths of a second child, although out of 474,850
adult male workers 145 , 3 00 are unmarried, 143,200 have no children and 60,700 have only one child—in all 349,200 out of the 474,850 would be paid for children they
do not possess”
it was announced that the Bavin Govern-
ment was having difficulty in finding a
formula for a basic wage which would work
out at about £4 Bs. In plain words, a
result which it is thought may not hurt the
Government politically has been guessed at;
and then a formula to produce that result
on paper has to be discovered. After which
the result would be offered to the world as
though it was the result of the formula, in-
stead of the formula being the result of
the verdict. It amounts to simple manu-
facture of evidence to produce a desired
verdict; and there is only one word for
that—it is not honest.
Thus far the working men and women of
Australia have been fooled into believing
that the basic wage is a wonderful scheme
for putting up their pay. It is a scheme
for putting up somebody’s pay—the pay of
the poor workman,, and the loafing or other-
wise dishonest workman. He gains by it;
there is no doubt whatever about that.
And there is only one person who can pay
for that sort of workman, and that is
the other sort. There are tens of thousands
of workmen and workwomen who are getting
far less money than they ought to get, less
still than they know they could honestly
earn if they extended themselves. But they
don’t get what they should get because
others (under the basic wage) get more than
they earn, and they don’t extend themselves
because under the present system that is
regarded as playing into the hands of the
employer.
Mr. Piddington and all his tribe, includ-
ing most of the trade-union leaders, are
the best friends the idle and incompetent
and dishonest worker ever had in this coun-
try. But they and their basic wage are
the worst enemies of the other sort.
4
The New York Crash.
Wall-street has had the greatest crash in
its history; and, being in a state of mind
where they can see ghosts behind every
bush, many Australians are asking whether
it is the turn of our Stock Exchanges next.
There is no danger on that score at all.
The trouble on Wall-street has arisen from
conditions utterly unlike those ruling in
Australia. The “Wild Cat” Monthly, in
its November issue, described recent New
York trading as follows:
“In America a very much larger propor-
tion of Stock Exchange transactions are
done on margin than in Australia. The client
puts up a small amount of the purchase
money—from 2\ p.c. up to 20 p.c., according
to availability of funds, character of the
stock and tendency of the market—and the
broker carries the balance. During the past
12 months there has been a tremendous
increase in the amount of money offering for
this purpose. As long ago as March last
it was estimated' at $2,500,000,000
£510,000,000 —and was still growing. .. .
Almost all of it was call money, very diffi-
cult to place at all in European centres, but
worth as much as 8 and 10 per cent, in New
York. Large American corporations, many
of which had made capital issues for some of
which they had not immediate use, seized
the opportunity of getting twice as much
as their bankers could see their way to pay
them. The bankers issued circulars point-
ing out the dangers. But the TJ.S. had
been enjoying great prosperity: Uncle Sam
was on the pig’s back, and nothing could go
wrong. In the end it became a contest
between those who saw that it was a boom
and stayed out, and those who refused to
realise that it was_ a boom and rushed in.
Last month the thing happens that fflways
happens sooner or later. A few people got
nervous about their money; then more
people. Sales had to be forced in order to
pay them; and the more forced sales there
were the more there had to be.”
Very few Australian brokers sell on margin
at all; and the business, so far as investment
stocks are concerned, is quite negligible.
Having borrowed nothing wherewith to do
this kind of business, they have _ therefore
nothing to repay. So there will be no
avalanche of forced sales.
Australia’s trouble threatens from quite
another direction—our failure to produce
enough to pay our foreign interest bill. It
isn’t the private speculator who has run
wild in Australia; it is the public borrower
—which really means the politician. He is
the danger-maker we have to watch.
4
What Should Our Gauge Be?
From “Bad Australian,” who was for nine
years Resident Engineer on the Argentine
Trans-andine Railway:—
The Bulletin’s suggestion (9/10/’29)
that the tangle created by the differing gauges
of our railways could be best met by the
adoption of the 3ft. 6in. gauge as a standard
is a clear indication of the cheapest and most
practical way out of an ever-increasing diffi-
culty.
The cost of converting the existing 12,50t>
miles of 3ft. 6in. gauge to 4ft. would
mean a prohibitive expenditure in widening
earthworks and tunnels, re-location of con-
siderable sections of line due to modification
of short-radius curves to conform to mini-
mum radius of the 4ft. 8-Jin. gauge, widen-
ing, strengthening, and in 3ome cases com-
plete renewal of bridges and culverts, pro-
viding adequate clearances at platforms,
remodelling yards, substituting heavier track
material throughout. On the other hand, the
conversion from broad to narrow gauge
would require little more than modification
of track and crossing.
In addition to being much cheaper to con-
struct, the 3ft. 6in. line may be built and
safely* operated over , country where a 4ft.
BJin. would be absolutely impracticable, and
our engineers should have no difficulty in
locating such a line over any country on
this continent. The metre-gauge line, which
for all practical purposes may be regarded
as the same as the Australian, M.L. and
South African narrow-gauge, is widely used
throughout the South American republics,
even on the plains, where the consideration
of engineering difficulties does not militate
against the adoption of the broad gauge.
In Argentina, out of a total length of 4369
miles owned and operated by the Govern-
ment, 3448 miles are metre-gauge, and the
privately-owned lines —Central Cordoba
(1202 miles), Santa Fe (1187 miles). Pro-
vince of Buenos Ayres (790 miles), Trans-
andine (112 miles) and others —are built to
the same gauge. The main Government line
extends to the northern frontier, where it
connects with the Bolivian metre-gauge sys-
tem. As evidence of the practical utility of
the narrow gauge, it may be stated that the
gross receipts of the Central Cordoba rail-
way are steadily increasing in the face of
tlie most strenuous competition on the part
of broad-gauge lines that serve the same
districts.
The Trans-ancFlne railway, which crosses
the Andes at an elevation of nearly 11,000 ft.,
is a good example of the adaptability of the
metre gauge to mountainous country. About
a third of the total length of the line is made
up of curves, and its location involved the
construction of many large bridges and via-
ducts, the nature of the country being so
difficult that on one section of 10 miles the
canon of the Mendoza River is crossed no
less than five times on single spans ranging
from 150 ft. to 250 ft. in length. Some
two-axle rolling-stock is still used on the
metre-gauge lines, but these are being gradu-
ally replaced by the bogie type. The freight
waggons have a capacity of 16 and 20 tons,
and the dining-cars and sleepers are as com-
fortable and well appointed as those on most
broad-gauge lines.
4
“Full Dominion Status.’’
It is understood that the Ramsay Mac-
Donald Government is anxious to grant to
India “full Dominion status” at an early
date, which will put it on a level with Aus-
tralia, Maoriland, Canada and South Africa
in the matter of self-responsibility. This
is presumably considered a Christian duty,
Parliamentary institutions being regarded as
of divine origin and tending to save the
Labor party’s soul. Perhaps the Government
won’t go the whole .hog in the matter; but
even the tail alone seems a serious risk.
There are 30 languages in what is called
India, counting only those which are more
widely spoken than English. Thirty sets
of people who mostly don’t understand each
other are something of a difficulty. There
are seven or eight principal religions, and
the two that are more principal than the
others, the Hindus and the Mohammedans,
don’t speak do each other. The subdi-
vision into castes tends to leave a really
caste-ridden sect hardly speaking to itself.
There are some 700 native princes of
exoeedingly different gradations of import-
ance, though all possessed of dignity, some
of them to an uncomfortable extent. At
least a quarter per cent, of these mixed
characters make a noisy demand for .sdf-
government, but probably very few crave
for real Dominion status and the tremen-
dous responsibility it would imply. It
would be rather like getting a large quantity
of unfriendly cats into a room described as
a Parliament House and leaving them there
to settle their differences, after the long-
established arbiter and keeper of the peace
had left the neighborhood. For there can’t
be true Dominion status unless the arbiter
and keeper of the peace removes himself
and his armaments and other implements of
interference. To hang round ready to burst
in when the liberated people show them-
selves unfit for that kind of liberty would
destroy the illusion, and make the status
a hollow pretence.
The position involves an exceedingly
mixed community which is wholly unused to
representative* government, and the most
important sections of which get on best
apart, especially on festival days. The hap-
piest prospect for such a people is when
there is a dispassionate foreign ruling ele-
ment to mediate and, when necessary, to
keep the cats apart, so far as possible.
4
Peace at Any Price.
A Welsh parson named Rhondda Williams
has got into the limelight by making a
furious attack on the new Anglican prayer-
book. He lays it down that “to pray for
victory,” as this book does, “is to ask God
to bless the use of poison gas, boiling oil,
incendiary bombs, treachery, lying and
bayonets.” This is ideal peace propaganda,
for it leaves out the fact that the prayer
also asks God to curse and bring to naught
the bad folks who use these horrors.
The attitude of the typical peace
advocate, especially the clerical one, is that
the good man should under no circumstances
gird up his tank and fight, but should leave
victory and the fruits thereof to the bad
man, so that he may inherit the earth and
have a bully time. It follows that the
reverend gentleman holds that a country
(like, say, Belgium) which can only be
defended by war is not worth defending,
wherefore it and its people should be
abandoned to the Hun.
When war is viewed from this aspect
it becomes infested with anomalies. It is
horrid to die through gas bombs and such-
like, the invention of bad men. Yet it is
no better and is often a great deal more
protracted to die through cancer, kidney
disease, arthritis, diabetes, cholera, angina
pectoris, plague, meningitis, or some forms
of snake-bite, and even lethargic encephal-
itis doesn’t sound a desirable finish. Man
didn’t invent these, and as to who did, and
why it was done, the parson offers no
opinion.
The ideal world, according to peace-at-
any-price idealists, is one where good people
wouldn’t resist evil, and bad people wouldn’t
take a mean advantage of them by practis-
ing it. Therefore war mortality would
cease, and there would be room to hope
that a happy and contented population
would multiply until there would be
only one disease worth considering—
the fact that an overwhelming pro-
portion of the world’s inhabitants didn’t
enjoy a square meal from the cradle to the
grave. This situation would exist in various
countries now save for the fact that there
dre still countries with a surplus of room;
but despite the horrors of civil and other
war, the supply of room is on the decline.
There are ways by which the evil might
be combated, among them being prevention
of birth, infanticide, cannibalism and the
painless extinction of the unserviceable
aged. But the peace-at-any-price element
seems to hate these expedients as much as
it does war. Perhaps the ideal globe is
only a vision.


RUSE
RED, WHITE and BLUE
WHISKY
Gaelic Special Reserve
DEARER- BUT BETTER
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO., LTD.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN AGENTS: JAMES HENTY & CO., 499 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD., 444 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
(jAE-l-lQ
FiESE
nr
POLITICAL
POINTS
The 14 days within which the Sculli-
dores undertook to get the coalmines work-
ing expired last Monday. If they have fallen
down on that promise to do something useful,
they have suspended military training by
way of doing something cheap and supple-
mentary. This means permanent abolition
so far as the. Scullidores can make it perma-
nent. The saving will amount to £lBO,OOO
this year, as the story goes, so the security of
Australia is sold cheaply enough.
“Bruce had no mandate to abolish Federal
arbitration” —such was the Labor cry last
month. Has Scullin any mandate to abolish
military training? There was no such pro-
posal in his policy speech as reported in
the Sydney Labor Daily and the Melbourne
Labor daily, the Age ; there was, on the con-
trary, an assurance that “we are prepared
to assume full responsibility for the defence
of Australia.”
Old Jack West,
M.H.R.
Scullin, Anst e y,
Fenton, Watkins,
West and the elder
Riley were Federal
Labor members when
a Labor Government
established compul-
sory training by pro-
clamation on Jan. 1,
1911. Before intro-
ducing the system, that
Labor Government
sought the best mili-
tary advice it could
get; but the present
Ministry decided to
abolish it without
even consulting
Chauvel, the leader of
the iC.M.F., though
not one of the 13 Min-
isters has even a rudi-
mentary knowledge of
war. The N.S.W.
military headquarters
are in West’s elect-
orate, and the prospect
of wholesale dismissals
is already troubling
the kindhearted old
gentleman. All the
same, he is expected to be tractable.
Vic. is in the throes of a State election
campaign. Nominations close on Tuesday,
Nov. 12, and polling is fixed for Saturday,
Nov. 30; the new House is to meet on Dec.
11. Old hands predict nine or ten changes,
apart from those that will be created by
Bowser (Wangaratta-Ovens) and Downward
(Morning-ton), who are pulling out volun-
tarily after 35 years’ service. And the Nat.-
Cockies are confident that the changes will
be in their favor. They hold that there
are all the signs of a swift reaction against
Laborism.
Queensland lost £1,603,980 on its railways
for the year to June, 1929. It is the 14th con-
secutive big loss. A worried Commissioner says
it would have been impossible to develop
Queensland without railways, so the Govern-
ment must bear the loss. But it would have
been possible to develop Queensland or any
other State without railways built by means
of a debt which cost 4 per cent, interest 10
years ago, and costs about 5 per cent, now,
and is rising towards 6 per cent.
A feature of the N.S.W. Upper House
Reform Bill was the provision that candi-
dates should be at least 30 years of age.
The idea of a higher age limit for the second
Chamber prevails in Westralia (age 30),
South Aus. (30), the Irish Free State (30),
the Union of South Africa (30), Canada
(30), the U.S.A. (30), Argentina (30), Bel-
gium (40), Czechoslovakia (45), Denmark
(25), Iceland (25), France (40), Japan
(30), Norway (30), Poland (30) and
Sweden (35). With all these instances, some
of them quite respect-
able, the Bavin Min-
istry might have per-
sisted in demanding
that its idea should
have a trial, but it
collapsed at the first
time of asking, and
went back to the old
21.
There is no provi-
sion for compulsory
voting in the new S.
Aus. Electoral Bill;
the Assembly decided
against it. Picture-
theatre proprietors
are to be fined up to
£2OO if they exhibit
any political stuff at
election-time. A Labor
member suggested that
this clause was a re-
prisal for what the
picture theatres did
during the Common-
wealth election; but
the idea came from
Dr. Basedow, the In-
dependent, and Pre-
mier Butler assured
the House that Adel-
aide managers are in
favor of it.
Westralian Labor
was caught napping in
the committee stage
of the Land and In-
come Tax Bill; an
amendment cutting Id.
in the £ off the land-
tax was carried
against it. Though
the party is 27 strong
in the Assembly (50
members) it could
muster only 14 votes.
A Government which
is preparing for a March election can’t afford
to be so careless.
“I will vote Labor if I think the will of
the people will thereby be carried out,” said
Marks, the “Nationalist,” when the poll was
declared at Wentworth. In other words
Marks will vote with what he believes to be
the biggest crowd. It will be bad luck for
him if he mistakes his crowd.
The S. M. Hebald has been driven by force
of darned bad circumstances to stick a large
heading in its financial column: “Reduction
in Imports Wanted.” This is because it is
difficult to get money to London to pay for
imports. When the importer wants to pay
for goods, or the Government or municipality
wants to pay overseas interest and sinking
fund, it is easy to dump notes, or a cheque
payable in notes, for a million or two before
a banker and tell him to pass the money
over in gold to the fellow in London. But
a difficulty arises if the reply is that this
country’s hanks at the other end haven’t the
gold, because Australia doesn’t sell enough
exports abroad, and it isn’t able to borrow
enough from foreign moneylenders.
Drifting far from its Freetrade anchorage,
S. M. Hebald suggests that “there could be
a restriction of imports by Government
decree.” The Bulletin has advocated that
for years, and very strenuously, but it pro-
poses a permanent law prohibiting the impor-
tation of a long list of foreign articles that
Australia can do without. If the list were
sufficiently comprehensive it would make an
end of all excuse for external borrowing, and
create many new local industries to reduce
the horrors of unemployment. The idea of
“restriction of imports” as long as the loan
situation is bad, but not long enough to let
new industries have a chance to make good,
is apologetic piffle.
Lyons, the new P.M.G., talks of putting
up some of the telephone and telegraph rates,
and wealthy newspapers which get their spicy
stuff sent over the wires at less than cost
are banging him severely. But the embar-
rassed Commonwealth can’t go on losing
£300,000 a year in the telegraph branch even
to oblige newspaper proprietors; and
the telephone deficits are even worse—
£9sB,ooo in three years. Moreover no small
portion of the unprofitable traffic relates to
betting transactions, and taxpayers should
not be asked to make sacrifices to feed the
gambling mania. It is to be hoped that
Lyons will charge double for telegrams to
and from McShortodds and ten times the
ordinary rates for bookies’ ’phones.
JACK McNEILL, Labor M.H.R. for
Wannon (Vic.). Arthur Rodgers
has beaten him twice and he has
beaten Rodgers twice. Rodgers
says there will have to be a
rubber.
The cables mention “synthetic wool” again,
and report that the French have produced
a material which threatens to have wide
uses. Its qualities are probably exaggerated;
but even if it is comparatively poor stuff it
is not going to do us any good. It is not
at all likely to knock wool out, but it is quite
likely to make it very difficult if not impos-
sible for wool to climb back to the prices
we got for our clip a year or two ago. Which
makes it more necessary than ever that we
should cut out all imports that we can do
without, so that our reduced wool cheque
may go farther towards paying that 30 mil-
lions a year of foreign interest which we
have pledged ourselves
to find somehow and
somewhere.
In 1926 Australia
paid away £279,878
for imported matches,
which was equal to a
wage of £4 a week
for 1345 people; and
it is mostly a womau-
and-girl industry, so
£4 is pretty fair. In
the year to June,
1929, imports were
down to £159,308,
which would still have
given 766 people a £4-
a-week job. Now a
great influx of cheap-
labor Russian matches
is described as climb-
ing over the tariff.
Matches are among
the things whi e h
should be classed as
prohibited imports.
We can make enough
of them, and they
strike as well as any
other person’s
matches.
A committee of ex-
perts of some sort is
to be appointed to re-
port on an aggravat-
ing little regulation
affecting Sydney Har-
bor traffic. On vehicle
punts after sunset ell
tail-lights have to be
extinguished, because
it is said that, being
red, they might be a
danger to traffic, and
as they can’t be turn-
ed off from within a
motor-driven vehicle,
that being against the
traffic law, and as often the driver
cannot let himself out of his vehicle
because others have been directed to
draw up close beside him, innumerable
offenders hale been reported. The difficulty
could be easily got over, as it has been got
over in scores of places, by requiring. the
ferries to carry bold, well-lighted signs indi-
cating the nature of the ponderous arks.
To prove that the new Government means
economy the Scullins won’t occupy the Prime
Minister’s residence at Canberra and all
the “flummery” will be cut out of the open-
ing of Parliament. Ti-ie Bulletin heartily
encourages Ministers to go ahead. Their
predecessors left them plenty of openings.
But what matters most is the use that will
be made of the savings. Australia won’t be
any better off if what is saved on the swings
is wasted on the boats. But if they realise
that what Australia is short of is production,
and that every man who isn’t producing
something is a waste and a burden on the
country, we may soon be on the right track.
It is suggested in North Asia that the
Muscovite is only waiting for the Amur to
freeze over to let Hades loose on the Man-
churian border. Should Russia make a
serious offensive, however, the Japs would
probably intervene; Nippon cannot afford to
have the Soviet in military occupation of a
railway so close to its prize colony of Korea,
which is already troubled with “dangerous
thoughts,” i.e., communistic yearnings. The
possibility is that both Governments are
ready for a conference, as neither feels sure
of itself on the home front.
There have been five Vic. Assembly by-
elections since the general poll on April 9,
1927. Labor bid for four (Gippsland South,
Brighton, Castlemaine and Gippsland West),
but each time failed to score. It doesn’t
augur well for the party’s success at the
end of the month.
This was Theodore’s promise, as reported
by the Labor Daily :
One of the first actions of a Labor Government
will be to re-open' the coalmines. The owners must
open the mines, or the Labor Government will open
them in the name of the people.
The same gentleman a little later (S. M.
Herald report) ■
If Labor was returned the mines would be re-
opened within a fortnight.
The fortnight lias gone by and the mines
are still idle; also the threats have been
dropped. Instead, the owners have been
asked, almost humbly, to attend a conference
under the Industrial Peace Act, which died
of its own futility; and this when an expen-
sive Coal Commission, with a Judge for
chairman, has been sitting for many months!
Pity politicians can’t be prosecuted for
obtaining votes by dishonest pretences.
Though the south rejected them, Queens-
land remained faithful to Bruce and Page.
The Transport Workers Act is part of the
explanation. Before that measure was
enforced, loafing, drunkenness and pillaging
were rife in the sugar ports, and almost
anything could be made an excuse for a
stop-work meeting. Now sober men work
regular hours for good wages; the average
loading rate for bagged sugar has risen from
144 to 30 tons per gang per hour (under
a bonus system this figure has approached
60 tons); ships travel to schedule; and
pillaging is a thing of the past. The Act
lias brought peace to an industry vital to
Queensland, and the Labor people will incur
a heavy responsibility if they repeal it, as
they threaten to do.
Bruce has been taunted with being the
first Prime Minister to lose his seat. Deakin
had a narrow shave in 1910, his majority in
Ballarat being a mere 443; and Hughes only
saved his skin in 1917 by flying from West
Sydney to Bendigo—the “Nationalist” whom
he left to fight West Sydney was beaten by
14,664 to 7389. British Prime Ministers
have known what it is to be rejected by their
constituents. When the Conservative Min-
istry went down in 1906 Balfour headed the
list of the slain. Of course, another seat
Avas found for him immediately.
Theodore was unanimously chosen a mem-
ber of the Scullin Cabinet mainly on account
of his financial experience. He was Queens-
land Treasurer for eight years. One of
liis exploits was to raise the rents of the
State’s pastoral tenants in such a way
that the territorial revenue jumped from
£973,024 in 1917 to £1,640,624 in 1921. In
1922 he discovered that this sort of finance
was loaded, and he had to eat humble pie
in England. After that his methods con-
sisted of increasing taxation, reducing wages
and retrenching. In his Federal position
there is very little land revenue to experi-
ment with, so it is hoped the Treasurer has
some other ideas to fall back upon.
It is part of the Sydney harbor bridge
contract that the material is to be Austra-
lian steel, and Minister Buttenshaw states
that so far all the steel used has been rolled
at Lithgow. Some of it has been sent to
Melbourne to the order of McPhersons, the
Premier’s firm, arid used in a contract for
the making of bolts and nuts for the bridge.
The story about McPhersons passing off
German bolts and nuts under a false
description was a nasty example of the
tendency to assume that the local manu-
facturer who employs white Australian
labor at good wages is a crook. Seemingly
the lie was supplied to Opposition-leader
Hogan, and he grabbed at it hungrily with-
out investigation.
The people who want the Singapore Base
abandoned at all costs have found a new
argument in the alleged inability of the
British soldier to stand the climate. Even
forgetting that Singapore has always had a
British regiment and that nobody ever
claimed before that the Tommy suffered for
it, Singapore’s death rate is lower than that
of Chile, Russia and several other countries.
Preventive medicine has halved it since 1918,
a record no other city of half a million people
can show, in the tropics or elsewhere.
Fenton, the new
Minister of Customs,
says his Government
“is willing to do
anything, either
in a legislative or
administrative way,
which will further the
cause of Australian
industries.” There
are many things it
could do, but here’s
one to start with. Let
it give Australia a
heroic new ta r i ff,
which will squash im-
ports, and save our
money, and help in-
dustry, and make the
customs revenue fall
like Lucifer leaving
Paradise.
Loans are a fore-
stalling of revenue,
and temporary bank
overdrafts are a way
of forestalling loans.
Westralian Premier
Customs Minister
Fenton.
Collier lias announced loan-spending arrange-
ments for £3,773.286 to cover the year to next
June, though he doesn’t clearly know where
the money is to come from, and says he can
only hope for the best.” The blow-out just
completed was largely managed by getting an
overdraft in London. Collier says that the
bit of accommodation will be paid when the
next long-distance loan is floated, and then
there will be room for another overdraft.
Meanwhile some financing is being done on
the strength of the prospect of the other
overdraft.
DISARMING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“No more boy soldiers.” —Labor Daily.
No more boy soldiers! Never hostile guns
Awoke the echoes on this peaceful shore.
When in such grooves as ours existence runs,
Time, surely, that we ceased to teach our
sons
Even to think of war.
The world has had its lesson. Ancient foes
Are leagued as one, and linked in friend-
ship’s chain.
At last, long last, the gates of Janus close,
And —mark you—nobody for certain knows
They’ll ever ope again.
Why should our tender youth be forced to
play—
Even to play—at battle? Tell me why.
Across the earth there dawns a brighter day.
Shall we be loath to sheathe the sword and
lay
The cruel rifle by?
No more boy soldiers! Out on irksome drill,
The blare, of bugles and the beat of drums
And all the other jingoistic frill!
A reckoning there may be, true. But still
You can’t be certain about that until
The day of reckoning comes.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


Poverty
point
SEA LEGS.
“Coorama”: The blaze at Melbourne
Majesty’s recalls Dan Barry, who used to
tour the country in the winter, picking up
money in the smalls, and then, in tne sum-
mer, go to the Alex., as it was called in
his days, to lose, all he had made. One night
at the Alex. Dan’s heavy man, Augustus
Glover, waiting for the Heroine to appear,
had shouted “Ha, Ha,” several times as her
cue. Then Barry’s voice came from the
wings: “You’ll have to ‘Ha, Ha,’ again, Gus.
Her garter’s broken.”
“Chez”: It’s queer the types of men who
get stage-struck. Many years ago our local
football team had a huge young chap as
trainer; used to spar with us and rub us
doAvn in a room at the back of our suburban
pub (we used to train on butchers of beer
and cigarettes). He was badly bitten by the
stage scorpion, and after many rebuffs he
confided to one of the team that he was
,°n” at the Theatre Royal as a policeman
in uniform on the racecourse in a sporting
drama. That tore it. Barraekers and play-
ers filled the gallery on the opening night,
and when he came on we all yelled “Good
f Whacker,” “Stick yer chest out,” “He
can t be beat,” and cheered him until, turn-
ing a purply-red, he stepped right up to the
footlights and roared, “Lor’ blimey, carn’t
yer give a bloke a charnce!” The audience
screeched with joy, and the manager asked
him to do it again next night. But lie
seemed to have got stage-friglit and chucked
it up. Those of us who were in training
got what Avas coming to us when avc next
sparred with him, but he was a sport, and
there Avere no cot cases.
“Flaneur”: Melba and Ada Crossley were
not always so friendly as Melba’s last wreath
seemed to signify. Many years ago some
Australians were dining with Ada Crossley
at the Ritz Hotel in London when Melba
passed our party in the Palm Court. Ada
rose and went forward to greet Melba. I
don’t know what happened, but we saw
Melba sail on and Ada Crossley came back
to us and burst into tears. We knew the
two had been friends up till a few days
previously.
“Aries”: William Cosgrove, who has
brought his South African Comedy Company
to Melbourne, once had definite terms with
the owners of the theatre he was playing in
in Sydney that the lease would expire at
Christmas. Early in November he had the
tip that another firm had leased the house
over his head and was preparing to open
on the evening Avhich Cosgrove had set down
for the first night of his neAV drama “Face
to Face.” Legal adiuce he took urged him
not to leave the theatre at any time until
his lease was up, and for the next three
weeks he slept in the green-room every
night, Avhilc “Face to Face” drew packed
houses, partly because of the enormous pub-
licity. Crowds would collect every night
after the show to watch Cosgrove being
locked behind the doors, until at last a laAv-
suit brought respite. Later Cosgrove went
to Melbourne, where he contracted to lease
His Majesty’s, then the Alexandra, for 10
years at £lO a week. He re-named the
theatre Her Majesty’s, but as he could not
persuade playgoers to make the journey to
Exhibition-street, he had to forfeit the lease,
which was taken over by J. C. Williamson.
“II.K.”: The jubilee of Thomas Edison’s
invention of electric-light recalls that it Avas
during the run of Gilbert and Sullivan’s
“Patience” that a London theatre first made
use of electric, and the then Prince of Wales
sent for the manager and asked for an assur-
ance that there would be no danger. Henry
Irving installed electric light at the Lyceum,
London, but reverted to gas, which he be-
lieved gave better “atmosphere.” He stuck
to gas until he relinquished management.
Electric light was first used on the stage in
Australia in the original Melbourne produc-
tion of “lolanthe” in 1884, with Robert
Brougb, his wife, Nellie Stewart, Broccolini,
Woodfield, Boyle and Emma Chambers in
the cast.
“Hamfat”: What link binds music to
leather? Politician and musician Paddy Mina-
lian runs a big boot business; Knoblanck,
first Musicians’ Union secretary, kneAv all the
secrets of the trade; De Groen, who ran a
band in Sydney famous in its day, was a
great maker of fancy purses; and Ted
(E.W.) Graham, the Bondi bandmaster Avho
died last Aveek, was partner in a leather-
goods manufacturing form. Graham licked
the Bondi Beach band into great shape.
“O. McKay M.”: Are there more “intel-
lectuals” in Sydney than sometimes avc ima-
gine, _ or are the big audiences that Allan
Wilkie has built up mostly just sympathisers
Avith a game battler? Or, again, are the
dress-suitless stalls of NewtoAvn Majestic a
haven for the congenital losers of studs ?
At Wilkie’s fine staging of “She Stoops to
Conquer” a fellow-scribe and I counted,
between us, 11 solicitors, two doctors and
three barristers within range of roAV K. There
Avasn’t a dinner-jacket in the stalls. I re-
member seeing some of those 16 professional
gents at Her Majesty’s during the opera
season. They didn’t look nearly so happy.
But maybe it’s just that the play’s the thing
—and the able players.
“W.”: John Woodcock Graves, author of
“D’ye Ken John Peel,” the famous hunting
song which lately attained its 100th birth-
day, was 100 years old when he died in
Hobart (Tas.) in 1886. He was an eccen-
tric old chap, something of a weaver of
cloth and verses and something of an artist.
He passed on to his son, awhile a Hobart
solicitor, his love of animals, native and
imported, and the old Hobart homestead of
the family was a sort of Zoo. Like Sliaks-
peare, Graves was not unknown to the laAv.
Away back in the ’forties he put in six
months in the Debtors’ Prison, Hobart
Town, and was for awhile in an asylum,
whence he escaped and later brought an
unsuccessful action against ■ Sheriff Casey
for wrongful detention. There is talk of
a modern memorial to replace the faded
gravestone in Sandy Bay cemetery.
. “Craiser”: According to Fire-Chief Wil-
kins the destruction of His Majesty’s in
Melbourne was due to the economical device
of the Firm in dispensing with a night fire-
man a few months ago. Nineteen previous con-
flagrations had been quenched in their incipi-
ent phases by firemen, on special duty at the
theatre. Probably the biggest sufferers by
the fire are some of the orchestrions. Few
of the public know how much a player has
to invest in his instruments. A string bass
that was destroyed cost £5O, but Avas in-
sured. The drummer’s outfit, belonging to
B. Cress well, Avas worth £250 and hadn’t
a penny on it. One of the minor conse-
quences of the conflagration was the destruc-
tion of the futurist paintings hanging in the
foyer, which were purchased in Paris at
the instigation of George Tallis. The only
picture the flames spared was the portrait
of Nellie Melba, by Rupert Bunny. Which
showed fine discrimination on the part of the
fire fiend.
“M.G.S.”: Some months ago in The
Bulletin I asserted that, judging by the
present state of repertory enterprise in Aus-
tralia, this country would have to wait till
1949 before it saw a performance of Eugene
O’Neill’s “Strange Interlude.” I now learn
that Duncan Macdougall proposes to essay
the opus at the Playbox Theatre, Sydney, on
November 27, and I withdraw the slur con-
ditionally. The prophecy now applies only
to Melbourne. Incidentally, Mr. Macdougail
is Avelcome to the information that the play
was banned in Boston in September.
“Lamia” (Penang) : “Journey’s End” is
touring the East, and at Penang, notori-
ously an evil place for the Showman whether
he puts on a leggy revue or a Kubelik, it
has just bad its usual success. Penang
turned out en masse for the season of two
nights. The company was excellent, and it
did not suffer the usual handicap of touring
theatrical shows in the East —lack of ad-
equate scenery, costumes and stage fittings.
“Journey’s End” demands no change of scene
or costume, and stage properties are decidedly
primitive.
“C.” (Lond.) : Townsend Whitling, Avho
was in Australia with the Hutchison co. and
before that with “Farmer’s Wife” (which he
produced and was featured in), and Avho, with
his wife Violet Ley, paid his first visit to
Australia with Ethel Irving, is now stage
director for one of the biggest London suc-
cesses of the year, “The Matriarch,” adapted
by G. B. Stern from her novel “The Tents
of Israel.” This play is now nearing its
200th performance. The success is largely
due to the performance of Mrs. Patrick
Campbell in the title-role, in which she makes
a remarkable return to the London stage.
Her performance is one of the most outstand-
ing of the last few years. Ethel Irving also
plays a leading part. The play, will be done
round about Christmas by the Schuberts in
New York, with Constance Collier in the
name part. It will also be done in South
Africa by Mary Clare, and may go to Aus-
tralia.
“L. de R.”: “Collapse,” the Repertory
Society’s recent offering, is unique in that
it had its first performance anywhere at
Melbourne Playhouse. Frank Clewlow read
it just before he left England, and while it
was still wet from the pen of L. W. Ved-
renne, the London playwright.
“A.”: “L.H.P.” (B. 16/10/’29) is wrong
in crediting George Johnson, Lyster’s trusty
second tenor, with being Gertrude John-
son’s father. The brilliant soprano’s parent
is G. J. Johnson, a well-known Melbourne
choirmaster, for years prominent in Lieder-
tafel circles.
“50”: “The Romance of Maoriland,” a
new film produced by Edward T. Brown, an
Aucklander, has had a successful private
screening in the Queen City. The film tells
the story of Maoriland from the arrival of
the first canoes. Connecting links, such as
Captain ITobson and the Maori prophet Rua,
are worked in.
“L. de Rideau”: Anybody would have
thought that the movies had finally put old-
time melodrama out of action, but hope
springs eternal in actor-managers’ bosoms.
William Cosgrove, whose connection with
the Australian stage covers nearly four de-
cades, will shortly onen a season at Mel-
bourne Playhouse with “Her Honor for His
Life” and other pieces redolent of barn-
stormery, _lt is over 30 years since Cos-
grove obtained a lease of the present His
Majesty’s for a weekly tenner.
“IT. Mac.”: llow far behind Australia lies
in broadcasting is suggested by the announce-
ment that the Bayreuth Festival for 1930 is
to be broadcast by the leading German radio
company.
“O. Kay”: Daphne Pollard, born in Mel-
bourne and one of the original Lilliputians,
is now playing in talkies. I saw her in two
silent pictures recently; in one she had the
leading role. Daphne, after touring through-
out Australia, went to France and became a
star comedienne with the Folios Bergere,
Paris. She then went to tJ.S.A., and made a
name on the vaudeville stage.
“G. 11. de C.” (Cape Town) : South
African Theatres, Ltd., the big controlling
interest in this country, which is known also
as “The Trust” and “The Jew Boys,” has at
last got serious opposition in Kinemas, Ltd.
This concern owns one of the largest and
best appointed houses in Africa —the King’s
Ivinema at Durban.
“Theodoric”: No doubt the reason Vic-
torian picture houses make a mockery of
the State law regarding the quota of Aus-
tralian films lies in the fact that nobody
cares. The quota provision was passed as
a sop to the social purity party, which counts
in Vic. politics (it was tagged on to the bill
that fixed the cinema “age of innocence”),
and then let go hang with a “Thank Heaven,
that’s done!” The remedy, if anyone cared
to find it, would be a short bill insisting that
quota film should be of a standard to pass
some board of review, with the penalty of
cancellation of the theatre license where the
law was flouted. When motor, drink, jay-
walking, electoral and food laws were mocked
Parliament quickly tightened them till they
Averen’t despised.
NOISIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now is the blessed silence rent
By enA ious sound; the firmament,
Where little star-points fade and glow,
Seems to recoil as from a blow;
The ground vibrates beneath my feet,
A rumbling shiver shakes the seat
And shudders all along my spine;
The very Avails seem to incline
And totter in a dreadful way—
The Wurlitzer’s begun to play.
And now the growling pipes are mute;
As from a cracked and crazy flute,
A tinny thread of sound is sewn
In plaintive pattern on the moan
That lingers on the tortured air,
Faint ghost of the great organ’s blare;
It qua vers and seems like to die,
Recovers sadly by and by ;
And so, as in a tank afar,
One hears the potted orchestra.
Silent groAv fiddles, flutes and drums;
Now from a mouthing shadow comes
A sudden and surprising roar,
As dainty Dorothy Damore
Reveals the archness that she OAvns
In bass and burly undertones.
Suppressed for being overheard,
She’s mouthing still, but makes no Avord....
Now she’s regaining speech with zest....
And now—Our ears cry out for rest.
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


55^
? 3^
M
G—**
k vg
IS
<c^»
£
S:
'Ey ,«
■
i
>SS£
¥ M-MSSBk
*SS
SS
ra kHSttS w
//^
w&tok
nt
lii.ii
S
mm
f*»*l *
9 -
>k
Y/:
i
<Ps$Z--
/*
i*<m*L‘.-: <-T*-*tf^*SD*qMwg<a^^
v tl vae^ u '' v - i ' ** *' ,Vfc '* **•*"
X*&r~ •
3> #sr ."'tv'. ; :^^-*‘-^ t ' m, * ~ " J '' • •
P&i 5W
*<ffl
Differences
on the Racecourse
The performances of the
horses on the racecourse
are so good that very slight
Differences make the winners
stand out from the rest*
So also with SHELL Spirit and Oil. They
have these small Differences which
put them just ahead of all competitors.
The Difference.—Shell’s field of selection is not confined to one zone
or one country —it is workhwide. Thus it has at its command
always—the correct crude from which to produce the exact quality
of Spirit and Oil required to meet any specific demand.
SHE
MOTOR OIL and SPIRIT
ARE DIFFERENT
S 865


Dainty and Useful Xmas Gifts
A wealth of inspiration lies in the wide selection of beautiful
and practical articles suitable for Christmas-gift purposes now
available for choosing at Fairfax & Roberts.
m
§
0
m
tif
THIS PRETTY LITTLE
BOUDOIR CLOCK
is in liigh-grade Mauve Enamel on gilt
metal. Size, 21in. x 2Mn. It has a thor-
oughly reliable 8-day movement, and is
guaranteed for 10 years, and is kept
in order free of charge (break-
ages excepted) for 12 months.
Price
45/-
Other small clocks in round shape, in a variety of colored
enamel, are available at the same price.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
“THE MEETING-POOL” By Mervyn Skipper
A Classic for Children (and Grown-ups, too).
Recently published in London, this book has quickly won the admira-
tion of the reviewers and has been referred to as the cleverest
children’s hook since “Alice in Wonderland.” It is a collection
of stories drawn from native folk lore and animal life of a small
island off Borneo.
How the jungle dwellers each play their part in checking the incursions
of the rubber planter who is destroying their jungle is told in
whimsical fashion by each of them in turn.
Charming illustrations by R. W. Coulter, whose strength of line is
remarkable. An excellent school and presentation book. Both Author
and Artist are Australians.
Sold at the same price as in England.
Price, 6/- (postage 5d.)
from
ROBERTSON AND
MULLENS, LIMITED,
107-09-11-13 Elizabeth
Street, Melbourne, C.l.
i
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Just before Vic. Assembly was dissolved
Speacock reminded the H'ouse that it was
seeing the last of Bowser and Downward,
who are retiring after 35 years’ continuous
service. Bowser was Premier from Nov.,
1917, to March, 1918: he gave McPherson,
the present Premier, his first tenure of office
and Downward his first lift into a Cabinet.
The only pre-Federation Assemblymen who
are seeking re-election are Speacock, Pren-
dergast and Toutcher.
Jack Perkins, the Federal Nationalist
Whip, whose political fate is still undecided,
was Mayor of Cooma at 21, his sister acting
as Mayoress. Ever since boyhood he has kept
a diary, and before he was old enough to vote
he taught shorthand to the sisters in the
local convent. Perkins has a shop at Cooma
to return to if his appeal goes against him,
but he expects to be back in the House next
year.
It was really ex-Speaker Groom who made
the record fall at the elections. Old-man
Groom began to be State member for Too-
woomba (Q.) in 1862, and kept steadily on
till 1901. Then he became Federal member
for the same district, but died almost imme-
diately. His son Littleton inherited the con-
stituency, and represented it for 28 years,
being Minister for upwards of 11 years and
Speaker for nearly four years. The Pratten
W. H. FOOTE, conductor of the ambitious
S.A. Orchestra, and notable teacher of.
musical instruments at Adelaide Con-
servatorium.
dynasty (uncle and nephew) was very brief
by comparison, and so was the one of
Parkes and Son. The Butlers of S. Aus-
tralia occupy a special position, the son
having succeeded the father as Premier,
though at a respectful interval. The Price
dynasty also belongs to S. Aus.: father was
the State’s Labor Premier and the son has
been successively Labor M.L.A. and Agent-
General, and is now well dug in as M.H.R.
Sir Joseph Robinson, the S. African min-
ing magnate, just dead, attracted the atten-
tion of the world by failing to buy a peerage.
He agreed to pay £lOO,OOO for one in 1922,
and the resulting uproar did irretrievable
damage to Lloyd George, who was building
up his famous fund by such contributions.
The Hebrew financier had had a hectic past
in the early days of the Kimberley diamond
traffic, and opponents of the sale of honors
raked it up. He bought Stoadleigh Court, a
famous old Devonshire rrtansion, and modern-
ised it a quarter of a century ago; but Eng-
land was not congenial to him, and he spent
most of his time at his Cape Colony home.
F. B. S. Falkiner,
who has died at his
station, Foxlow, near
Canberra, aged 62,
was a Napoleon of
the pastoral indus
try. He was a large,
impre ssive-lookin?
man, and he spoke
and acted on large,
impressive lines. He
took over Tuppal
(160,000 acres carry-
ing nearly a sheep to
the acre) at 23, and
in 24 years put
million sheep through
ttie shed. A good
Australian through
and through, he was
abroad only onct
during his hard-
working life. Latterly
Falkiner spent a lot
of time in Sydney
attending to his
directorships and his
Graziers’ Association
duties. He was pre-
sident of the Warri-
gal Club, and the
only member of his
family who belonged
to the Union Club.
Like his brother
Norman, who pre-
deceased him, Franc
Falkiner was a legis-
lator for a time. He
sat in the Reps.,
first for Riverina
and later for Hume, and stood for the
Senate 10 years ago, when he was contem-
plating the purchase of Foxlow. Having
joined the youthful Country party, he gave
it a good start by polling 100,620 No. 1
votes, but the Nationalist and Labor pre-
ferences beat him.
The Falkiners used to tell a story about a
Russian expert who was being shown over
Boonoke by Bert Falkiner. “How many ship
you shear every year, Mr. Falkiner?” the
Russian asked. “Dad shears about 250,0 C ),
was the reply. The Russian thought his leg
was being tweaked, but came again: “How
many ship dorgs you have?” “About 20,"
said Bert. “Veil,” replied the Muscovite
triumphantly, “I know a ship owner in
Siberia who owns two tousan’ ship dorgs!
“You win,” said Bert. “What’ll you have?”
J. T. Benstead, one of the old hands of the
Papuan service who date from William
Macgregor’s time—there are not many left—
is about to retire. Benstead succeeded John
Macdonald as Director of Public Works,
which in Papua means the making of many
bricks without straw. There is a eulogistic
reference to the veteran’s services in the
Gazette notice’ recording his approaching
retirement —something unique for such publi-
cations.
One of the patriarchs of the N.S.W.
Northern Rivers is Ferdinand Schipp. Bor
80 of his 83 years lie has lived on the Clar-
ence ; he knew Grafton when it was a cedar-
cutters’ camp. His dad started a sawpit
in what is now Dobie-street, bought 5i acres
at the first Grafton land sale, and with his own
hand-sawn timber erected what was then
an outsize in pioneers’ homes. Young Schipp
learned his ABC from James Page, father
of the Country-party leader, tie remembers
vividly the battle with the blacks which fol-
lowed the murder of settlers’ families.
The Anglican bishopric of Waiapu (M.L.)
has returned to the Williams family. Wil-
liam Williams was the first bishop; he died
in 1876, and his son William Leonard, took
up the running in 1894; now his son Her-
bert succeeds Dr. Sedgwick. The new bishop
has been archdeacon of Waiapu for 22 years.
Like his father and grand-dad, he is a good
Maori scholar.
Jim Kenny, who ousted Harry Ryan as
M.L.A. for Cook (Q.), means to stick. In
a recent speech he traversed the chief wants
of his far-flung electorate, and then posted
a copy of the oration to every elector on
the Cook roll. Now every old tin-fossicker
to whom State politics are mentioned proudly
produces “the letter young Jim Kenny, the
member, sent me.”
William Rees Price, just appointed chief
train dispatcher in the Vic. railway service,
F. B. S. FALKJNER, great sheep-breeder
and good citizen, who died last week.
has been in turn junior clerk, night officer,
s.-m., traffic inspector and train running
officer. During the war he had charge of
light railways in France; and at Courtrai,
after the Armistice, he took delivery of the
German rolling stock signed over to the Allies.
Few railwaymen have had a more cosmo-
politan staff than Price bossed at the Belgian
centre; it included Englishmen, Scots, Irish
Australians, Frenchmen, Belgians, Russians
and Germans. He was severely gassed in
France, and the after-effects kept him out of
harness for 12 months after his return.
Melbourne City Council is mourning Aider-
man Jack Gardiner, its senior member who
passed out suddenly the other day. Nearly
half a century ago, when captain of the local
football team, Gardiner won the Carlton
Assembly seat from Jimmy Munro, who was
subsequently Premier
(1890-92). He held
it till beaten by F.
H. Bromley, after-
wards leader of the
Labor party, in 1892.
His service in the
City Council aggre-
gated 30 years, but
it was not con-
tinuous. While an
Assemblyman Gar-
diner was one of the
Whips of the Gillies-
Dea k i n coalition.
Speacock is the only
man now in the
Assembly who sat
with him. A friendly
soul, a good sport,
and an out-and-out
Melburnian, Jack
Gardiner got a great
deal out of his in-
nings of just on 81.
The late Walter
Henry Lucas was
known wherever the
Burns-Philp flag is
flown. From tally-
clerk and supercargo
on a small island
hooker he rose to
the control of B.P.’s
island plantations,
and during the war
was appointed tech-
nical adviser o n
Island matters to the
Commonweal th
Government. Many
stories were told of Lucas, and at least one
was unkind. While bathing in the German
Solomons, he was saved by a native who
spotted and drove off a 10ft. shark. To a
companion, a dour Scot, he said: “What
d’you think I ought to give that boy? I owe
him my life.” Replied the Scot: “Wull then,
I should say a couple of sticks of tobacco!
The subtlety of the remark did not occur to
Lucas until after the suggested payment had
been made.
The Labor politicians who descended on
Canberra to pick the Ministry were full of
election stories. Paul Jones, who got home
from forgetful Bob Cook in Indi (Vic.), told
one of a meeting he addressed in his cow-
farming constituency. Question-time came
and the leader of the local Nationalists —the
poundkeeper in private life —stood up. “If
Labor is returned,” he said, and men still
go on breaking industrial laws, what will
you do with them?” The local incorrigible
interposed: “Put ’em in the pound, Tom, o’
course. There mightn’ be room for my ole
’orse then.”
P. J. Oonlon, over whom the grave closed
in Box Hill cemetery last week, was. one of
the ablest of Victorian police magistrates-
one who avoided the spectacular and dodged
the limelight. Before going on the bench he
was a relieving clerk of courts in many Vic.
towns. Latterly he took cases at Colling-
wood, South Melbourne and Richmond. Just
before he got the call he had sent in his
resignation because of continued ill-health.
Portland (Vic.) is about to have a “Back
To” as a sort of rehearsal for a bigger
celebration in 1934. Included in the. pro-
gramme is a tableau of the landing of Edward
Henty on November 19, 1834. Henty died
in 1878. An old fellow who has lived at
Portland for 70 years worked for him, and
recalls that he was known as “Teddy the
Nipper.” “ ‘Teddy the, Nipper’ they call me,”
the pioneer once said, “but it ought to be
‘Teddy the Flat.’ ” And he pointed gloomily
to 20 or 30 swagmen leaving the men’s hut
at his Muntliam station after “bed and
breakfast.”
Rev. Sir Genille Cave-Brown-Cave, who
died last week in England, belonged to a
family that can trace its origin hack to the
Conqueror. It has representatives in Canada,
Ceylon, India, Africa, Mexico and Ireland,
and till recently there were Cave-Brown-
Caves in Australia. The late baronet began
as a cattle-rancher in America’s Wild West,
fought in the Boxer, Spanish-American and
World wars, became a Methodist minister in
America at 45, and at 51 started work for
the C. of E. as a curate. His stirring career
ended at 61.
The other day Maoriland’s. Governor, Sir
Charles Fergusson, had a chat with an old
gentleman at Blenheim who was a resident
of the Dominion before the first represen-
tative of the Crown, Captain Hobson, got
his direct appointment. He is Charles
Webbey, born in Zummersetshire in 1840,
and brought to the Shaky Islands eight
months later by his -parents. When the
present G.-G.’s father did his 18 months’
term as vice-regent in the early ’seventies
Webbey was a miner in Westland. He well
remembers the elder F'ergusson’s visit to
that wild and woolly region.
For over 80 years the brothers Imlay, pion-
eers of the Far South Coast of N. S. Wales,
slept in unconsecrated ground. Recently,
Dr. Radford, Anglican Bishop of Goulburn,
consecrated the little God’s acre at Tara-
ganda, a mile or so from Bega, in which they
lie. An _ immense granite boulder, now
shrouded in ivy, marks the grave. George
died in 1846; Alexander in 1847. Both were
surgeons. Neither the Imlays nor Ben Boyd,
in spite of their immense southern holdings,
made good. They flashed for a season and
were gone. Mystery marks the fate of George
Imlay. A keen sportsman, he went out on
Boxing Day, 1846, with his dogs and gun.
The dogs alone returned. . Long search amid
scrub and jungle eventually revealed his
body, with, the gun lying beside it; the rest
is conjecture.
A memoir of Justice Higgins is contem-
plated by his niece Nettie Palmer, whom he
remembered in his will. There are still old
Parliamentary hands who can remember
when he startled the Leg. Assembly by say-
ing “this House is bushed.” Bushed it was
on the meaning of a clause. Higgins made
a bid for the Yic. Premiership m 1899, when
Allan McLean was Consul, but the Opposi-
tion, led by George Turner, would not sup-
port him, and the Age, which seemed to
have been encouraging him, grew frigid. The
only occasion when the whole of the Vic.
electors had an opportunity of saying what
they thought of Higgins was fin 1897, when
he stood for the Federal Convention; and
they said it emphatically. He was picked
as one of the 10 delegates.
The Vic. police reserve lost a giant when
James Kelly died in Melbourne the other
day. Kelly stood six feet seven in his socks
and weighed 20 stone. He hailed from
Bendigo.
Frederick Bolt, known throughout the
naval service as “Ben Bolt,” has retired
with the rank of Lieut.-Commander. A
veteran of the Royal Navy, he came, to
the R.A.N. in 1912 as gunnery instructor.
Afterwards, as training boss of the “new
entries” school at the Flinders Naval Depot
(Vic.), he instilled theories and facts into
over 3000 young Aussies.
JOHANNES ANDERSEN, the very learned
librarian of the Alexander Turnbull
Library at Wellington ( M.L. ), author
of “Myths and Legends of the Poly-
nesians,” “Maori Life in Aotea,” “Bird-
song and N.Z. Songbirds” and “Laws
of Verse,” and a well-known Bulletin
Red Page contributor.
“Sol M.”: Touching the ancient Blax-
land family and its local descendants (B.
25/9/’29), the Westons have a very similar
record. They were landowners in Surrey or
thereabouts before the historical disturbance
of 106 G, and continued to own and live on
property there till 1920. Then war taxation
froze them out, and the old headquarters,
West Horsley Place, was sold. _ The N. S.
Wales representative of the family, Captain
Weston, built Horsley, near Parramatta,
about 100 years ago, and married a daughter
of Colonel Johnston, of Annandale.
WINTER IN FRANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It does not matter to you or me that the
trees are bare again
In France, and the fields we used to know
are sodden beneath the rain.
The sunken roads may - be deep in mud and
the cobbles with slush be grey,
But that winter is coming again to France
is nothing to us to-day.
We have not to tramp o’er those seeping
fields, for our last long tramp is done,
And never again will I hear you pray for
a glimpse of Australian sun.
Against the gloom of the winter sky the elms
may be stark and bare,
But you will not know that the autumn’s
dead, and I no longer care.
A cold rain falls on the fields of France and
the mud on the roads is deep,
But neither the rain nor the cold, old man,
shall ever disturb your sleep.
And though o’er the place where they laid
you down the winds with the dead leaves
play ’ • ■ , _,
That winter is coming again to France is
nothing to us to-day.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


SOCIETU
and it's
printed with
WIMBIE'S INKS
“Medicurse”: Modern surgical instruments
are often exceedingly intricate and delicate
things; yet when necessity calls the best
operators can descend to the primitive. The
late Herbert Maitland was on a fishing
expedition when his services were requisi-
tioned at the briefest notice to open a breast
abscess; he did it with a fishing-knife. One
of our leading obstetricians not so long ago
improvised a forceps to bring a young Aus-
tralian into the world; he used No. 8
fencing-wire. And the other day a Sydney
physician made an incision in the windpipe
of a diphtheria case with a nail file and
saved the patient, who was almost blue-black
from asphyxia. The file was jabbed in be-
neath Adam’s apple and turned sideways,
and air was passed in and out through ihe
wound till something better was obtained.
PUSS, PUSS.
KIT: “But anyway, dear, we must give Jack credit for getting her a nice engagement
ring.”
KAT: “Oh, no, we needn’t—the jeweller’s given him credit for that.”
“Morita”: Pigeon enthusiasts are apt to
overstress the part played by the birds as
message-carriers during the war. They were
used occasionally on some sectors, but most
of the dispatch work was done by signallers,
battalion runners or motor-cyclists. Outside
Abbeville I came upon a loft of birds waiting
to be drawn upon. It was run by two
Tommy pigeon-fanciers, but from the few
calls made they reckoned carrier-pigeons in
the army were a thing of the past. They
blamed chiefly the changing of birds from
one location to another, which made them
unreliable; several bad returned to the Abbe-
ville loft with messages that should have
reached some G.H.Q. Also, the habit ot
circling around when released was liable to
be fatal when they were loosed near the
front line. I doubt whether any Australian
SOS in France went back by pigeons. They
wouldn’t have been in it with colored flares
for immediate artillery results.
* * * *
“Mundudgee”: Cycling from Kynuna (Q.)
to Maxwelton some years ago, 1 caught up
with a youth riding a grey horse. We
cobbered up, and for three days travelled,
camped and shared blankets. Nearing our
destination, I got a puncture and my cobber
rode on saying he would see me later at
the siding pub. On my arrival there he
was not to be found. Several weeks later
I called at a station on the Flinders for a
hand-out. The smiling face of the young
woman in charge of the kitchen seemed
familiar, but it was not until she mentioned
the puncture that I recognised my erstwhile
cobber.
# Sfc Jj* :jc
“Iveg.”: A Turk with a flag of truce
appeared one morning when we were holding
Quinn's Post, on Gallipoli. He was met
and blindfolded before being escorted into our
lines. Then speculation grew busy ; some of
our rank-and-file expected nothing less than
a complete surrender. However, all that
the Turks wanted was a cessation of hos-
tilities to enable them to bury their dead,
who were thick between the lines. At the
agreed hour firing ceased. The melancholy
business that followed had its humorous
side. Our officers had selected for burial
fatigue all the biggest men available, reason-
ing doubtless that this would have a power-
ful effect on our friends the enemy. Johnny
evidently had the same idea, so it was a
crowd of giants who plied the picks and
shovels on No Man’s Land that day in 1915.
“One of sth Cav. Div. Staff”: I saw a
flag of truce employed at Aleppo. Two
battex-ies of armored-cars and two light-car
patrols, under the late General McAndrew,
had made a dash hither from Damascus, but
the city was too strongly held for the cars
to tackle. The General asked for a volun-
teer to deliver a letter to the Turkish
General demanding surrender, and Capt.
Scottie Maclntyre took on the job. He
drove into Aleppo in an old box Ford and
spent six hours at the Turkish headquarters,
where he was hospitably treated, although
things became a bit unpleasant for him when
some of our aeroplanes began to drop bombs
in the neighborhood. He returned with the
Turkish General’s reply, but it proved to
have been written, intentionally or other-
wise, in language which nobody could trans-
late. However, the Turks moved out of
Aleppo the following day. I saw a photo
of Scottie, with the white flag flying from
liis Ford, in the War Museum in London
a few months ago.
* $ * *
“Keg.”: I do not think that any race
can claim to be the best linguists; it is
more a matter of individuals. Some years
ago I often met a Gippo postman in Cairo
who not only spoke but read and wrote
German, French, Spanish, Arabic, Italian
and English. He confided to me that he was
well paid on account of his mastery of so
many tongues; he actually drew, it trans-
pired, 200 piastres (about £2 Is. Bd.) per
week. Only the other day I was talking to
a native of Adelaide, one of whose parents
was a Southern European, who speaks
fluently Italian, Greek, German and English
and has a working knowledge of French,
Spanish and several other languages. His
wife, an English girl, is almost as polyglot.
“Carrick, A. 8.” : I won’t back Dutchmen
for the linguistic stakes—my money goes on
educated Russians of pre-war days. In a
Hamburg shipping office I met a Russian
clerk who spoke 14 languages fluently—
could translate letters from, or write letters
in, every language on earth, Arabic included,
though he admitted that he found corn-
posing letters to China or Japan ‘a great
trial of patience.” To demonstrate Ins
skill he wrote the familar cargo brand_ ’ Use
no hooks” in my autograph-book m 32
languages. ....
*.. *
“P.X. : My readiest linguist was the
purser of a C.P.B- steamer out of Montreal
for Antwerp. On these ships a mob of
Central Europeans who have been harvest-
ing or trading return for a few months to
their home villages. He may not have known
as many languages as some, but I heard him
carry on practically a continuous conversa-
tion "across his narrow counter with British,
French, Danish, German, Dutch and Italian,
and he probably would have done better had
the need arisen. My No. 2 exhibit was
Father Paul (Zundolovitch), imported from
Russia or thereabouts by Bishop Dunne to
round up the fearfully mixed congregation in
the Broken Hill mines. Of course his
English, like the rest of his languages except
SHE ONLY WANTED TO SHAKE THINGS UP.
MRS. BABBAGE: “She’s divorcing him for desertion, isn’t she, dear?”
MRS. BARENIP: “Oh dear no, Mrs. Babbage! She’s sueing him for destitution of
convivial rights!”
his own, was academic; and when an ex-
Indian army chaplain took him in hand
and taught him some words in the Aus-
tralian vernacular, the cloistered and dread-
fully serious bishop nearly had a heart
attack at their next interview.
* * # *
“Nakli.”: What is the unofficial national
anthem in the Navy to-day? In pre-war
days it was :
There’ll be no war—war,
Not in the reign of Good King Edward—
There’ll be no war—war,
For ’e ’ates that sort of thing.
Mothers won’t worry, 1
Not in the reign of Good King Edward—
Peace with ’onner is ’is motter,
Gawd Save the King!
When the Sultan of Brunei in Borneo
brought his domain of swamp and jungle
under British protection some wardroom
officers of one of H.M.’s surveying ships
solemnly taught the Court this ditty, and
when the British resident came across to
inaugurate the new regime he was paralysed
to be received by a group of pangirans sing-
ing the rousing refrain.
* * *
“Pawang” : The latest society to be formed
iri Melbourne is the Blood-Transfusion Ser-
vice. Previously the surgeons
have had to depend on appeals
over the wireless, or on some
generous giver barely recovered
from the effects of his last act of
benevolence. The new organisa-
tion, which is a branch of the
Red Cross, has 500 members as
its objective, and one of the first
persons to join up was a man
who had previously served on
similar societies in Birmingham
and London. Attempts to irri-
gate one man’s veins from those
of another go back to 1492, when
Pope Innocent VIII. underwent
the operation. In those days,
however, it was not known that
one man’s blood might be an-
other man’s poison, and the ex-
periment was fatal. To-day a
rigid classification is applied, and that de-
mands a wide circle of volunteers to draw
from.
* * * *
“Hamer”: A hard-headed youngster of
Yerrawa, near Yass (N.S.W.), attended school
for three days after he had had his skull
fractured. Then he suddenly became ill, and
was taken to hospital. A limb of a burning-
tree had fallen on his head, but, as he made
light of the injury himself, nobody else
worried. A crack like that, neglected, should
have proved fatal, but the hardy young
Australian is getting better.
* * * *
“Camperdown”: A Sydney suit in which
Tom St. Aubyn Bakewell is petitioning for
a divorce from his wife, mentioning as one
co-respondent a gentleman who was the
lady’s husband when Tom St. Aubyn was
the co-re., has lasted five weeks ; and there
seems no end to it. Tom St. Aubyn has the
money and the rest can be left to the
lawyers. Dad made it out of bricks, drain-
pipes and the like. The St. Aubyn in Tom’s
name doesn’t signify any aristocratic begin-
nings. Dad having more cash than he knew
what to do with, and thinking it about time
he had a hobby, bought St. Aubyn station,
near Scone —a beautiful property on which
he poured out money like water. But, though
he called a son after the name of the show
place, he didn’t put on any other dog. Once
an English tourist named Bakewell, on the
way to do some trout-fishing in Maoriland.
was shown the big rambling pile which the
Sydney Bakewell had built for himself on
Taylor Bay, in Sydney Harbor. When he
reached Maoriland lie wrote Bakewell ask-
ing him to which branch of the family he
belonged. The old man’s secretary read the
letter. “Tell him,” he. snapped, “tell him
[only he didn’t say “him”] I’m old Bill
Bakewell the bricklayer.” Laying bricks
had been his trade before he and his brother
began making them.
* * * *
“Uramao” : Hori had become involved in
a wordy correspondence with Government
officialdom regarding some tax. The Maori
is an impulsive reader and this one had
apparently overlooked the stereotyped ending
of the. departmental letters for quite a while.
Came a day, however, when he rushed round
to the schoolmaster proudly brandishing his
latest communication. “By gorry, Ite big
talk. Te sec’t’ry to te Guv’ment he rite to
me and say he my ’bedient servant. I got
te Guv’ment beat!”
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: Marriage under Islamic
law (B. 23/10/’29) is a civil contract requir-
ing only a declaration by both parties before
official witnesses, who certify to the dowry
which accompanies the bride. Ecclesiastical
authority doesn’t enter into the question at
all. The Koran limits a man to four wives
—and it further lays down, with regard to
divorce, that the divorced spouse’s dowry
must go back with her. That is one reason
why divorce, though easy to bring about, is
much rarer in Islam than it is among many
European peoples.
* * * *
“Kurrawang” : A bronze effigy of Patrick
Hannan, carrying the pick and waterbag,
which were the badges of his tribe, has been
erected at Kalgoorlie. Which recalls that in
the early days of Coolgardie there was a
jaynial citizen named Martin Walsh who ran
a water-condensing plant and loved to hear
himself talk almost as intensely as Sydney s
more famous Dan O’Connor. “The prospec-
tor,” declared Martin sonorously at some
festive gathering, “is the man who goes out
into the thrackless wastes carrying his life
in one hand, his pick in another and his
watherbag in—in—in”—- “A third,” put in
one of the audience obligingly. After that all
Irish bulls and topsy-turvydoms of speech
bv whomsoever uttered or invented, were
fathered on Martin until the day of his death,
when his mantle fell on the shoulders of Tom
Doyle, first Mayor of Kanowna.
Hs ❖ ♦ %
“Pick”: The winter just passed was the
coldest and most prolonged on the Southern
tableland of N. S. Wales since 1886. There
were unusually heavy snowfalls, weeks of
icy winds with their accompaniment of
sleet and hail, and on clear nights the
hardest frosts within the. memory of old
residents. Kosciusko and its lateral stretch
of ranges became a glistening white sky-
line of massed snowdrifts. The Snowy River
was frozen so hard that- draught-horses
crossed on the ice; there was skating on
the Bombala River and ski-running on the
plains of Bibbenluke. Ploughing was im-
possible. Magpies and other birds died in
hundreds from starvation because they
couldn’t dig for worms, and the losses
amongst lambs made the percentage the
lowest on record.
THE LINE OF DEMARCATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The latest strike on the Sydney Harbor Bridge,
the 16th since it was commenced in 1925, arose
over the precise line of demarcation between the
work of ironworkers and painters.”
The Painter and the Ironworker
Bent grimly to their graft,
Like all the other trades wherewith
Our Harbor Bridge is staffed,
Each vehemently jealous for
The honor of his craft.
“My oath! ’twill be a gala day
When this here ditch is spanned,”
The Man of Metal hazarded,
What time his brow he fanned.
The Splodger spat and acquiesced
Laconically, “Grand.”
He turned, and bit upon an oath,
His eyes with wrath grew big.
“You cut it out!” he howled. “No more
O’ that,” he bellowed, “Dig!
Your job’s to scaffold all you like
And daub and scrape and rig.
“But not to take a sasli-brush up
And wallop on the paint;
Such poaching on another chap’s
Preserves would nark a saint.
You’ve overstepped the line, my lad!”
The other growled “I ain’t.”
“The time has come,” the Painter said,
“The point in court to raise,
To hear what Union bosses think
And good ole Piddo says,
And settle if the Bridge is black
We needs must tint in greys.”
Then leai-ned Judges knit their brows
And forth it went, the word:
One chap may do the priming coat
But it would be absurd
To hold him competent to touch
The second or the third.
The Painter and the Ironworker,
They wrought where girders grow.
“Our little job should finish up
. Inside a year or so,
They say,” observed the Ironworker.
The Painter said “Dunno.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Strict Veg.” : The identification chart of
a young man whose body was brought to
the Melbourne morgue recently read like the
catalogue of an exhibition. On the
right arm were figures representing Faith,
Hope and Charity. A ship was tattooed
on the side of the elbow and two clasped hands
appeared elsewhere; also a heart pierced
by an arrow. On one wrist were the Union
Jack and another flag crossed, and two swal-
lows sped across the breast, each bearing
a letter. A cross with the inscription
“To my loving father and mother” was an-
other item. Tattooing is still sufficiently
popular in Melbourne to keep two professors
of the cult in continuous employment. Flap-
pers with a masochistic trend are their prin-
cipal clients.
* :J; * *
“R.V.”: If Priminister Scullin had lost
the nomination for Yarra in the last elec-
tion lie could have got a job at Hollywood.
His first performance in the talkies was an
excellent piece of work. Not only did his
plain, straightforward elocution record ex-
traordinarily well, but his histrionic behavior
was a model for many foreign statesmen one
has seen and heard. The McGrath-Guesst
system, the invention of two Australians,
was the method used.
* $ * *
“Morita”: I know another reason why
people sing in bathrooms; I learned it in a
boarding-house, where it was an established
custom of both sexes. A faulty door-lock was
the excuse and the singing practice was re-
garded as an added security to the chair
usually jambed against the door. The idea
had other advantages. It cut out the tramp-
ing back and forth on wintry mornings to
ascertain whether the bath was tenanted,
and the broadcast ditties soon taught one
when to turn out of blankets to take up Mie
recognised bath roster. But a youthful
newcomer learnt her lesson early when the
proprietor, armed with his shaving gear,
interrupted her morning shower, blaming the
lack of music for his intrusion. Within an
SHE KNEW HER JERRY.
MRS . BABBAGE: “I thought I’d come and tell you, Mrs. Woodead, that your boy's
scrappin’ with my boy Jerry.”
Mrs. WOODEAD: “Much obliged, but I’m not interested in children’s quarrels.”
Mrs. BULWINKLE : “Oh all right, ’ave it your own way—if you WANT in sent 'one
on a stretcher.”
hour of the complaint reaching the ears of
his spouse, expense was waived and trades-
men were installing the latest burglar-proof
on the door,
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: The disadvantages of not
having a private address were brought home
to a young bacchanalian in Melbourne re-
cently. He attended a fancy-dress bail
dressed as some sort of bare-footed Poly-
nesian. Having absorbed more than he could
carry, he was placed in a taxi by friends
and consigned to his seaside suburb. Hav-
ing reached it, the driver woke his passenger,
now far gone in inebriation, and asked him
where he wished to go. The intoxicated one
murmured “Hotel Splendiferous.” The taxi
man interpreted this as meaning a desire
on the part of his charge to obtain a hair
of the dog that had bitten him, and rather
than encourage further revelry he drove the
barefooted one to the nearest lockup. It
was an indignant young gentleman who
explained to the sergeant next morning that
the Hotel Splendiferous was his address, dad
being the proprietor.
* # • * *
“Old Q.”: Brisbane encountered a police-
court witness the other day who rivalled
Lord Dundreary or a Ouidaesque guardsman
for sheer boredom. The prosecutor reproached
him for not answering to his bail on a
previous occasion when he had been arrested
for drunkenness. In a languid voice he replied,
“I nevah do turn up for my bail; it is really
hardly worth while wasting my time for a
mere mattah of five shillings.” Further
pressure elicited that his time was occupied,
more or less, as doorkcepah for a two-up
school.
s|c & sfc
“R.H'.” : T. C. Brennan, one of Melbourne’s
legal lights, crusades in his spare time against
the distortion of “one of the most beautiful
and cherished words in our language, Christ-
mas.” More than once the K.C. lias entered
a spirited protest in the Argus against the
grotesque abbreviation “Xmas,” and the
punctilious journal has backed his views with
an approving leaderette. The best answer
that has been put forward so far is that
“Xmas” means a saving of space in adver-
tising. And that opinion is evidently deeply
rooted, for an examination of a recent block
of Argus advertisements largely relating to
the coming holiday trade shows only two of
the prospective business-getters introducing
the word “Christmas,” while the mutilated
version is hopefully used by no less than 29.
* * * *
“E.H.M.”: There is a French legend,
immortalised by Alphonse Daudet, of a
cattle-herdsman, one Calendal, who cut down
inaccessible cedar-trees among the rocks of
Lure to win the love of a beautiful lady.
Two Dorrigo (N.S.W.) timber-getters have
just performed a feat as hazardous. Other-
workers in the district insisted that the pine-
trees growing on the brink of the Bellinger
gorge could not be felled, and these two
undertook to prove that they could. Seated
on spring-boards with their legs hanging over
the precipice, they successfully completed the
task. There was no beautiful lady to be
won, either; merely the value, of the timber
and a few small bets.
* * * *
“Jupiter”: Arrested for non-compliance
with a maintenance order made 15 years ago,
a man was brought before a Melbourne
suburban Court recently to show cause why
he shouldn’t pay the arrears. The original
order was for 6s. a week for each of two
children, and the debt now amounted to
£435 Bs. As the debtor has lost an eye, has
only one serviceable leg, and has recently
applied for the old-age pension, his solicitor
suggested that an order for 2s. 6d. a week
would be a fair thing. The Beak pointed
out that at that rate it would take 100
years to pay off the arrears, and made an
order for 10s. a week. Even at this it will
take nearly 17 years to clean the slate.
$ * * *
“Oran”: Touching unexpected replies by
witnesses, one of the most pompous and self-
sufficient barristers of my acquaintance was
stricken dumb in court by the perfectly
innocent answer of a 16-year-old girl. _ The
damsel was an important witness in a
divorce case, and cross-examining counsel
evidently suspected that she had been well
primed as to what evidence she should give.
“Now,” said he ponderously, fixing the
deeply-awed young person with his famous
scowl, “is there anyone who has tried to
make you say what is not true, or to say
that you have seen things that did not
occur?” “Only you, sir,” said the witness
timidly.
* * * *
“O. McKay M.”: “Clarence Cafeteria”
considers that watching the mercury is a
peculiarity of Australia (B. 30/10/’29) ; he
would find it far more pronounced at the
other end of the world. The London news-
papers nurse the weather like the sick child
it mostly is in the Thames valley. A tem-
perature of 70 degrees, even in August, is
always good for a double-column on the
front page. Every minute of sunlight is
jealously bottled, and Fleet-street gets quite
excited when, the Ivew weatherman chronicles
12min. lOsec. of that rare article for a day
as against the Air Ministry’s llmin. 58sec.
recorded in Aldwycli, near Australia House.
* =l= * *
“Stickybeak”: If Jews are so averse to
proselytising how explain the black Jews,
not only in South Africa but in Morocco,
in the TT.S.A. and India? It is absurd
to suggest that
these are the de-
scendants of Jacob.
Zangwill, in his
“Children of\ the
Ghetto,” mentions
Englishmen wh o
crossed to Holland
and became Jews
in Cromwell’s time.
Many Russians
who profess the
Jewish faith show
every sign of Tar-
tar, not Semitic,
ancestry. Standing
outside the great
Synagogue in Syd-
ney, I have noted
the large propor-
tion of faces which
might pass for
those of English-
men. You will see
far more typically
Semitic faces in
the Syrian Church
at Redfern.
* *
“Mulyan” : Bowie
station, north of
Jericho (Q.), some-
times has to shift
camp like the
blacks. During a
big drought a few
years ago a travel-
ler arrived at the
homestead and was
surprised to find
the place deserted,
though the house
was fully furnish-
ed. Seeing two
draught horses
lying dead in the
kitchen and an-
other on the back
verandah, he
visioned tragedies
and hurried off to
get in touch with
a policeman. At
the nearest water,
which . was some
miles from the
homestead, he
found the family,
living in tents and
makeshifts. The horses had become too
poor and weak to cart water, so everybody
had shifted to the waterhole, there to camp
till rain came.
* * * *
“Lao-dah” : Further to the absent-minded-
ness of people who post letters, Melbourne
Herald’s fashion department recently con-
templated an epistolary curiosity. It was
a letter asking for a pattern to be forwarded
to writer, cost of pattern enclosed in stamps.
Inside was a penny ha’penny stamp, aud
carefully gummed ou the outside of the en-
velope were stamps to the value of 7id.
* * * *
“Mudurup”: The open-air orator who
brightens up Australia’s Sunday afternoons
seldom gets much of a financial
return. Sometimes he is lucky to
escape violence: a Sydney Domain
speaker who fanned sectarian
flames the other Sabbath had good
reason to thank his stars that
there were police handy to protect
him. During the war years a
noisy demagogue whose unpatriotic
utterances on the Perth Esplanade
had exasperated the crowd found
a quaint refuge from the wrath
that threatened. There weren’t
enough police to escort him to
safety, and he finally fled up the
street like a hunted fox or a
bowled-out welsher. Most houses
were shut, but presently the pant-
ing fugitive shot through the doors
of the exclusive Weld Club, on the
any-port-in-a-storm principle. While
his pursuers were arguing, a little
irresolutely, outside the premises
a sympathetic steward opened the
door of an immense tucker safe,
and the man who reckoned his life
was in danger thankfully crawled
in among the cold-baked meats and
lay perdu till the vengeful crowd dispersed.
It was an inglorious ending to a vehement
attack on Capital.
* * * *
“Clifford Snook” : A shoplifting lady with
a wonderful garment of bags fastened under
her cloak to hold plunder—in fact, an expert
and well-prepared shoplifting lady—was
recently brought up in Sydney, but as the
Court disliked the idea of sending a woman
to gaol, she was quietly bound over to keep
the peace. It appears rather futile, as she
hadn’t broken the peace, and isn’t likely to.
Motor-bikes and the like wreck the peace
at all hours, but shoplifters are a silent lot
who don’t blow horns in public. It might
be a good self-sacrificing idea if the Court,
when it feels that the case is really worthy
a month’s gaol for the public protection, but
is restrained by emotion arising from the
defendant’s sex or youth or beauty, passed
the sentence and served the term itself.
“Gumblegubbin”: The publicity given to
the unearthing by boy-scouts of 300 sovereigns
which, it is alleged, a Sydney Zoo employee
buried in a pickle-bottle 15 years ago and
afterwards failed to locate, reminds me of
a thrifty old lady who had retired from a
pub business. She didn’t trust banks, and
had a fear of robbers; so she sealed the
bulk of her savings in an earthen jar. Many
months afterwards, when she wanted some
money, she couldn’t remember where she
put the jar. She searched for days, and
would leave off in the middle of dinner or
washing-up to look in some new spot that
had occurred to her. When not searching,
she was “trying to think.” The secret of
her obsession wasn’t known to her neighbors
till one night she got jambed in the manhole
on her way to look under the roof. Then one
of her rescuers said, “You didn’t use Deem-
ing’s deposit, did you?” “Why, of course!”
she exclaimed. “I put it under the hearth-
stone.”
* * *
“Ida Dawson” : “Verdikken” (B. 23/10/’29)
suggests that the Dutchman is a good lin-
NOW HE WAS GETTING INTERESTING.
FLAKE WHITE (showing a possible buyer round his studio ): “Yes,
I’ve been making rather a study of horses lately.”
POSSIBLE BUYER’S FLAPPER DAUGHTER: “Oh, do tell me —did you
get on to High Syce?”
guist because be belongs to a small nation
and lienee has to learn different languages.
Apart from that, he picks up a new tongue
with surprising rapidity. One told me that
he found French the most difficult as regards
pronunciation ; English as regards grammar
and spelling on account of the few hard and
fast rules. In Dutch every letter and every
combination of letters has always the same
sound. As to all foreigners being in a con-
spiracy to prevent us learning their lan-
guage, it is etiquette to speak Spanish in
the Da tin-American countries. But the
Spaniard never laughs openly at the Grin-
go’s mistake; whereas the Dutchman will
banter you, though I found him always help-
ful.
“Kayeif”: Add the South Seas to the
quarters of the globe where black Jews may
be met. I have met them in the Gilbert
Islands, where they are usually of a
much darker shade than the dark chocolate
of the true Gilbertese. The Semitic trace
seems only to be in the matter of looks, as
I’ve never noticed that any of them had
more of this world’s goods than his neigh-
bors ; moreover, they were not averse to
hard manual labor.
* * *■ *
“Hamer”: If “The Gaffer’s” “Sequah”
who used to tour out-back shows and race-
meetings in Queensland (B. 23/10/’29) was
the same as one I remember in England,
about 1890, he must have come down in the
world. The “Sequah” who pervaded Britain
was dressed in full Red Indian regalia,
and travelled with a regular circus, including
elephants. The pomp and circumstance of
the show attracted immense crowds; the
showman charged a bob each for “painless
extractions,” and sold liis elixir, “Sequah’s
Prairie Flower,” and his embrocation,
“Sequah’s Magic Oil,” like hot cakes.
ENLIGHTENMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Thp bi°- problem that besets a father is when he
has to talk to his boy. It is then that he needs
to he frank.”— Melbourne Sun.
Be frank good sir; no more, \ ictorian-wise,
May facts be hidden from inquiring youth.
Behold your son, whose sharp and searching-
eyes . . ... ~
Will pierce the veil in which you d wrap
the truth.
Consign at once to unrogretted shades
The methods of our undiscerning sires,
Who dealt in dubious synonyms for spades <
And quenched with damp reproof youth’s
questing fires.
Be frank, dear dad; the days are dead and
gone
When some obscuring fiction satisfied.
A cruel and exploring light has shone
Upon the suave evasions once you tried.
A Santa Claus—a queer obstetric stork
No more with such inventions puerile
May Georgian manhood deal, or seek to cork
The gusher of young questioning by guile.
Be frank, old man, and let who will pursue
The unavailing pathway of deceit;
The road of truth is, maybe, rough for you,
But there alone lies recompense complete.
Be frank, although, by awkward shyness
vexed,
Your cheek a tendency to blushing shows.
Tell all, and—by your ignorance perplexed,
Your son, perhaps, will teach you what
he knows!
VICTORIA.
HASEN.
BALLADE OF TROCHAIC TELEGRAMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Who has not scaled Parnassus’ slopes,
Knows not the lure of those high fires,
Like beacons, urging flagging hopes
To chant among celestial choirs.
The earnest minstrel who aspires
His choicest measures to rehearse,
Will scorn the ancient pipes and lyres
And telegraph his stately verse.
The laurel goes to whoso copes
With those full chords the soul suspires.
Who swift records, in graceful tropes,
.The essence of his heart’s desires;
Delay their lively freshness tires,
Makes them mechanical or worse;
Let them stream nobly through the wires:
All bards should telegraph their verse.
The bashful poetaster mopes
Like languid cattle in their byres;
Mutely his stricken spirit gropes
For the high passion of liis sires.
How different he who aspires
To lift the Muse’s tongue-tied curse
And hymns the themes he most admires
In sparkling, telegraphic verse!
Envoy.
Prince, now the Spring all Earth attires
In comely hues, let us disburse
Gay couplets, busy as pismires,
And telegraph our spritely verse.
N.S.W.
AHAB MULDOON.


f
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND 8. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING. Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOXD.
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
t nf total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
(2) Sdd“To„on made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
, ,* „„n, of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
* ,nal ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
(6) PERSONAL AOOIDLNI » CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
NO EXT^ q CHILDREN'S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Age notes invited from men c/ integrity. BRDOI| SMITHt
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Show Boat”
Criterion “Lombardi, Ltd.”
Palace J.C.W. World’s Entertainers
State Movies' and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Hold Everything”
New Comedy “Brewster’s Millions”
King’s “Whoopee”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
Olympia Wirths’ Circus
“The Rivals,” produced by Allan Wilkie
at Newtown Majestic, makes one think of
that good actor’s gallant company as_ The
Valiants. Even Bob Acres, who notoriously
will not fight in the play, fights all the way
through—with a part. That Arthur Keane
does not come out of the scrap with colors
flying is not all his fault. Most of the blame
lies with Sheridan, whose reputation would
not suffer if it were allowed to rest on “The
School for Scandal” only. When he wrote
“The Rivals” the piece flopped, and, though
a revised version succeeded a little better,
this Showman will be surprised if there is
a fanfare of encores in the Majestic this
week-end.
If anything like that does happen it will
be a tribute to the sterling acting of Allan
Wilkie. His Sir Anthony is the most
rounded and convincing character that he
has given in the present season. Miss
Hunter-Watts has to struggle slightly to
make her Lydia Languish acceptable, but
she rises admirably to the occasion. Apart
from the rare absurdity of her costume, there
is nothing very striking about the Mrs.
Malaprop of Lorna Forbes. Perhaps Miss
F'orbes recognises that malaprops are just
about the cheapest thing for winning laughs
ever conceived. The laughs come all right,
but at what display of human vanity!
The season of eighteenth-century comedy
closes with “The Rivals.” Fine dressing,
rarity and other things have made it un-
commonly interesting. The acting has been
almost uniformly good; the settings some-
times rich and always passable; the thin
threads of eighteenth-century dance music
a delight. Anyone who has been through it
should be nothing but grateful to Mr.
Wilkie; and if one constant admirer of the
company pauses now and cries “Enough I”
he does not do so out of ingratitude, but
simply from fear. The three comedies offered
KATHLEEN NEIL, for many years producer for Adelaide
Repertory, who has given a striking performance in
“Collapse” at Melbourne Playhouse.
have been so much’ of a family that another
from the same. nest might very easily prove
a bore. Fortunately, Mr. Wilkie goes to
a higher source for his following offerings,
and the season of Shakspeare will include
two recent additions to his already long
repertoire, “Much Adq About Nothing” and
“King Lear.”
The company gave a taste of what s to
come on Friday afternoon in a fine produc-
tion of “Macbeth” with Wilkie in the narne-
part, Miss Hunter-Watts the best this Show-
man has ever seen her in Lady Macbeth, and
John Cairns a splendid Macduff. Inciden-
tally, is there a harder working party of
players at present on earth? “Midsummer
Night” on Wednesday afternoon, “She Stoops
to Conquer” on Thursday afternoon and
night, Macbeth on Friday afternoon, “She
Stoops” again on Friday night, and “The
Rivals” on Saturday afternoon and night.
Yet the playing, even in such a dreary waste
of good actors’ time as one or two of the
second-act scenes of “The Rivals,” remains
wonderfully fresh.
* * #
Even if Edna Ferber’s “Show Boat” had
not been written someone would have built
a musical comedy round the stage life of
the Mississippi in the ’eighties and onwards.
Drama, movement, color, the romance of
ships—all were there clamoring to be com-
bined. The play, which arrived from Mel-
bourne at Sydney Majesty’s on Saturday
night, does not follow the novel closely (.the
very title has a purposeless “the” before it
on the programme), but the characters
appear as they lived in print, and the bnl-
liant and passionate atmosphere of the great
river is. artfully captured.
Gwyneth Lascelles, the clever Australian
girl who has moved up from understudy to
lead, scores a resounding success as Mag-
nolia. Like poor Jack Cannot, she can
act, sing, dance • and comede, and she looks
equally charming and in the picture whether
doing a nigger dance du obetre in a. bustle,
singing “After the Ball in a late Victorian
robe, being reconciled as a grey-haired flapper
of to-day, to the melodious but somewhat
wooden Gaylord Ravenal (Glen Dale).
The permutations of some of the characters
through the years fail to convince; Parthy
Ann (Bertha Belmore) is a spiiglitliei
septuagenarian at the end of Act II than
Voronoff himself ever imagined; and the
oftener this writer hears “01’ Man River
the less it impresses him. But these are
small things in a show which is colossal
value for the money—several love stories,
two or three comedies and a first-rate panto
mime in one.
What would you do if you knew the world
was coming to an end in a given number
of days? The answer is supplied by L.
W. Vedrenne in “Collapse,” staged by the
Melbourne Reps. The approaching cataclysm
is announced per radio by a voice from the
“other side,” and the announcement inter-
rupts a discussion on much the same subject
among the members of Lord Saxie’s country
house-party. The
house-party, with a
fe w dissentients,
has come to
the conclusion
that religion,
influence of the
past, fear o f
the future, noblesse
oblige and the self-
respect of the indi-
vidual would
operate to preserve
the existing divi-
sions of society as
well as the haber-
dasher’s plateglass
windows. Alas,
when the reality of
the prophecy be-
comes established,
all these predic-
tions are falsified.
Noblesse oblige
fails to sustain
the courage of his
Lordship ; the Rev.
Wensley Martin
succumbs to his
lifelong e nem y—
drink; a girl who
is about to be mar-
ried evinces a de-
sire for an experi-
ence with a former
admirer which her
austere fiance de-
nies her ; a lady of
easy virtue cheer-
fully and openly
redoubles her har-
lot r i e s ; Capt.
Doughtie, a hither-
to more or less re-
spectable member
of the ruling
classes, discloses a
nice taste for mur-
der and concubines;
and the price of a
woman’s honor is
reduced to the equivalent of two bottles of
soda-water. The earl’s servants walk out,
while down in the village the mob drowns its
apprehensions in stolen beer, ably assisted
therein by the guardians of law and order.
There was nothing new in all this for
members of the audience not suffering from
shortage of memory. Not those, at any rate,
who had lived through the Melbourne police
strike Yet. despite its somewhat obvious
conclusion, “Collapse” is excellent enter-
tainment and a wonderfully even cast and a
well-behaved wireless set gave it an air of
solid reality not usually to be expected when
playwrights get bitten by intellectual fan-
tasies. John L. Guyatt was altogether
impressive in the arduous part of a serious
young man who remains true to his stoic
philosophy right up to the final upheaval,
and his fiancee, Winifred Hall, struggled
with the conflicting emotions of an adoles-
cent girl, faced in her bloom with extinction,
in a convincingly emotional manner. Lord
Saxie Clewlow gave a fine bravura rendering
of a crusted old
Tory reduced to
pathetic impotence.
Charles Langley
might have made
more of his primi-
tive craving for
bloodshed and riot,
and Helton Daniell
was a somewhat
soporific ecclesias-
tic given overmuch
to the b otlle.
Catherine Weill, a
new and valuable
recruit from Adel-
aide, was remark-
ably effective as
Mrs. Anthony, the
unscrupulous
woman who gets on
quite well in an
ordered society and
equally well in a
disordered society
without scruples.
The performance
of Thomas Skewes
was extraordinarily
natural. He was
the earl’s gardener,
who, with eight
days to live, pains-
takingly tended his
calceolarias because
they should be out
in six days.
* ¥
Th e Victorian
Liedertafel added
to its reputation for
technical excellence
with its 120th con-
cert at Melbourne
Town Hall last
week. As the even-
ing wore on the im-
pression grew that
the vast body of
men and women
were a single in-
strument capable of leaping at a bare hint
from Sutton Crow from the faintest of
pianissimo whisperings to the deep roar of
a hundred-throated giant.
Unfortunately, all the talent and trouble
were expended on a rather feeble piece of
music. Felicie David’s symphonic ode,
“The Desert,” may have created an immense
sensation at the Paris Conservatorium in
1844. but the allegedly Oriental ideas in it
have been plagiarised so often since, that the
magic has gone out of it. The picture of
the caravan toiling across the countenance
of Egypt bound merely for the next stopping-
place, apparently, lacks dramatic interest,
and even the stentorian monologue of W.
L. Paine, the “narrator,” failed to arouse
public interest in a journey which is essen-
tially no more exciting than the periodical
trips of the Transcontinental express from
Port Augusta to Kalgoorlie.
Still, the impression of vast expanses of
sand without any geographical features was
extraordinarily well suggested, and William
Cadzow’s rendering of the Mohammedan call
to prayer was a delight to listen to and not
a bit like the discordant reality, which is
usually delivered by an old man with a
cracked treble and no knowledge of voice-
production. Cora O’FareH’s singing of some
English ditties was immensely popular and
the choir’s humming accompaniment to the
solo parts of Reichardt’s “Image of the
Rose” was another winner.
Equipped with a Strad borrowed from Ber-
nard Heinze, just-returned violinist Elise
Steele gave a recital last week at the
Assembly Hall in Melbourne. How much of
it may 'be credited to the instrument and
how much to the recent development in the
Castlemaine girl’s technique present com-
mentator knoweth not, but he has seldom
heard notes so rich and round drawn from
any fiddle. Miss Steele bowed her way
through Mozart’s G major Concerto, a
modern but by no means inelegant Strauss
sonata, and a number of lighter titbits with
equal feeling and facility. The lady looks
to have a future.
¥ * #
A thronged attendance at “Hold Every-
thing,” the new-old unmusical comedy at
Melbourne Royal, was more than satisfied
with the force and frequency with which
Gus Bluett fell on his ear and otherwise
gave appropriate expression to the leading
comedic role. The crowd also announced
itself as pleased with the humorous exaggera-
tions of Mary Lawson and not disposed to be
critical of heroine Elsie Keene because her
voice was the least important thing about,
her. If the management were inclined to be
apologetic it would probably point to the
wonderful dancing of the Kendalls as suffi-
cient excuse for all shortcomings.
* #
Even a co. composed entirely of Bouci-
caults and Vanbrughs could hardly make a
triumphant success of “The Man with the
Monkey Glands,” the un-Parisian Pans
comedy which was unloosed at Melbourne
Playhouse on Saturday. Such historic names
as Botha and Van Kloof figure in the cast.
GWYNETH LASCELLES, the young Australian who is playing
Magnolia in “Show Boat” at Sydney Majesty’s.
which hails from South Africa. If the com-
pany is a fair average sample of the sister
dominion’s histrionic talent, the talkies are
in no immediate danger in that land.
* ¥ *
The World’s Entertainers at Sydney
Palace were reinforced on Saturday by Ann
Penn, a vivacious young English comedienne
whose chief stock-in-trade is mimicry of
giants and near-giants in the vaudeville
world, Ann’s imitation of Ella Shields in
the Burlington Bertie number, worn thread-
bare and made hackneyed by lesser imper-
sonators as it has been, was distinctly good.
Of fresher interest, though not so successful,
was her duplication of Talbot O’Farrell and
Will F'yffe, but she was at her best in rein-
carnating the voice and mannerisms of Ann
Soutar, a recent Tivoli draw. Walter Rich-
ardson, the coon warbler; Guy Sampsel and
Lily Leonhard, a smart pair of patterers:
John and George Plardgrove, two clever
young dancers; Fred Browne and Kay
Lavelle, whose witticisms and xylophone
tapping are above average • and Geraldine
Valliere and her four baby grands, continue
to be the pick of the rest of the programme.
* * *
The Veterans of Variety are winning such
a good hearing at Sydney Opera House that
they run a risk of becoming veterans all
over again.
* * ¥
Frank O’Brian’s team at Sydney Fullers’
took their audience to the Tin Hare on
Saturday night and provided a life-like repre-
sentation of that renowned sport, not omit-
ting the welshers. In fact, there were im-
provements on the original, notably the
flapper bookmakers, who were of a kind cal-
culated to induce an Aberdonian to lay odds
on a dead ’un. The ballet is particularly
good. One dance, with the performers wear-
ing bells tuned in different keys and
“dancing” tunes with them, took the house
by the short hair.
* # *
“The Rosary,” offered by Nellie Bramley
at Brisbane Royal, packed the house even
more tightly than usual. The Bramley took
the dual role of Vera Wilton and her twin
sister Alice, and made a success of the double.
Robert Ginns as Bruce Wilton and Austen
Milroy as Ivenward Wright were best
of the male portion. Next week “Drought”
will reign.
The big new picture house, the Regent,
opens on Friday. The takings for the open-
ing night go to charity.
His Majesty’s is filled with the sound of
talkies and those who go to hear ’em.


i!
Sydney
mmmm
mm
MH
Melbourne
Record Again Broken
Time Lowered by
Twelve Minutes
/
''Zj'l
\t
■■■
mmMmmmmm
map*.
ABBS
rMUmsEm&P.
‘ \ri
Wmm
x>
wmmwm
m
WHiSßkli
1
>6
BARNET CLASS RUBBER COMPANY LIMITED
Mr. H. J. Beith, in a
Chrysler 70 equipped with
Barnet Glass Tyres, left
Melbourne at 5.1 a.m. on
October 30, 1929, and
arrived Sydney G.P.O. at
3.13 p.m. same day, cover-
ing the distance in 10
hours 12 minutes, and
lowering the previous
record by 12 minutes.
Average speed 56.47 miles
per hour.


Rone: 0
BRITISH
DUPLICATOR
will produce typewritten letters and
print office stationery in any quan-
tities.
> t -
Particulars
from
Sydney:
21 Hunter Street.
Melbourne:
04 Market Street.
Brisbane:
43 Creek Street.
Adelaide:
Gawler Place.
Perth:
107 Murray Street.
iOBEI-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monohel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting- Gelati
Dynamite
Safety fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
“LET’S CHOOSE EXECUTORS AND TALK OF WILLS”
HAVE YOU CHOSEN YOUR EXECUTOR?
If you have appointed a friend, have you considered that he may die soon after you, and your
estate may pass into the control of someone whom you would never have trusted? That he may
maladminister the funds? Or your Estate may suffer losses through his neglect or inexperience?
THESE RISKS CAN BE OVERCOME BY APPOINTING AS YOUR EXECUTOR
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
OF 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
which offers undoubted Security, combined with Expert Administration.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS NOW UNDER THE COMPANY’S CONTROL EXCEED £36,350,000.
Managing Director: R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
Manager: H. V. DOUGLASS.
Write for Booklet.
Post Graduate
Business Courses
FAK more intricate systems of trading
and finance are demanded in countries
which have been famous throughout cen-
turies of industry and commerce than in
so young a nation as ours. Learn about
these systems from the famous international
executive Courses of the Alexander Hamilton
Institute (U.K. and U.S.A.).
The first, “MODERN BUSINESS COURSE
AND SERVICE,” deals with business in
general. The second, “MODERN MER-
CHANDISING COURSE AND SERVICE,”
is written for the store owner or executive.
Write to-day for the book entitled,
“Forging Ahead in Business.”
Alexander Hamilton Institute Courses
controlled and adapted for Australia by
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON
MELBOURNE: 38 Bank House, Bank Place,
410-412 Collins Street.
SYDNEY: 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack
Street.
P 2
PATOX
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
North Broken Hill, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1915.. 131,940 5 p.c. = 30,000 101,940 245,209
1916.. 311,293 40 „ „ 240,000 71,293 316,502
1917.. 354,741 40 „ 240,000 114,741 431,243
1918.. 392,244 40 „ ~ 240,000 l 141 732 572,975
Written off, £10,512 ) ’
1919.. 297,668 30p.c.= 180,000 117,668 690,643
1920. . 42,626 Nil 125 7 00 715 371
Written off, £16,898 J ‘ 25,72S |lM ' l
1921. . 21,430 Nil I q .on 704 501
Written off. £13,300 J
1922.. 53,504 Nil 53,504 778,005
1923.. 301,980 30 p.e.-- 180,000 124,980 902,985
1924.. 736,066 40 „„ 340,000 396.066 1,299,051
1925.. 939,262 75 „„ 525,000 414,262 1,713,313
1926.. 782,106 95 „ „ 665,000 } , nn ftl Q „ Q 9.
Written off £!6,493 ( 100>G13 1.813,926
1927.. 529,038 75 p.c. = 525,000 4,038 1,817,964
1928.. 369,882 40 „ „ 280,000 89,882 1,907,846
1929.. 528,646 42i „ „ 297,500 231,146 2,138,992
Chief factors responsible for the spring of
£158,764 in last year's profits were better
prices for lead —the metal averaged £22
13s. 6d. per ton as against £2l 19s. 6d. for
the previous year—improved recoveries, lower
milling costs, slightly richer ore and larger
returns from investments. The sale of mine
products (£1,407,554) turned in an extra
£177,750, while the outgo on working account
(£875,413) was £20,744 lighter. Manage-
ment charges, taxes, etc. (£146,121) were up
£66,176; but £18,952 more came in from
divs., interest, etc. (£142,359). Thus the
year’s profit was figured at £528,646, after
allowing for minor adjustments and including
£50,000 reserved for depreciation. Share-
holders received Bs. 6d. per 20s. share,
making total divs. 735. 6d. per share for the
last half-dozen years.
The other £231,146 of profit, real or so-
called, was dropped into the co.’s various
financial bins, a detailed view of which fol-
lows :
1923. 1928. 1929.
Depreciation ..£162,000 £372,000 £422,000
Equalisation . . 394,961 ]
Contingency .. 75,000 {■ 903,060 970,397
Fire and Accident. . 6,941 J
Debenture Sinking Fund 9,861 10,672 10,271
New plant account 184,775 83,330 162,115
Unappropriated . . 69,447 538,778 574,209
Total .. .. £962,985 £1,907,846 £2,138,992
Actually the dimensions of the financial fly-
wheel are not so large as those figures
suggest. There is the mine and plant, which
will ultimately lie worth but a very small
fraction of the figure at which they appear
(£1,059,776, cost). Therefore, to" get the
position into better focus, look at these
figures:—
1923. 1928. 1929.
Assets other than
mine and plant £1,036,016 £1,702,970 £1,974,909
Liabilities . . 198,629 132,687 168,6ff.3
Net liquid assets £837,387 £1,570,283 £1,806,216
including unsold products at their estimated
values, last year’s net improvement was
£235,933 after paying out the dividends; and
the more or less liquid surplus at June 30
was equal to 5.15. 7d. per share. Six years
back _ the figure was 235. lid. Thus, in
addition to receiving the divs. just referred
to, shareholders are visibly 275. Bd. better
off than they were in 1923.
However, a repetition of the events of the
last half-dozen years need not be looked for.
Conditions in the lead market have changed
completely, and the. coutract with the Brit-
ish Government, which gives Australian zinc
producers a minimum of £3O per ton for
spelter, expires on June 30 next. Last year
spelter averaged £25 14s. 9d. per ton in the
open market. So this and other Barrier cos.
have really received substantial bonuses on
their zinc concentrates for the last two years.
Also, a couple of months ago the old slime
dump was exhausted. The dump treatment
plant has since been handling current mill
slimes, but the slime flotation equipment has
ceased to function. The latter put through
81,289 tons of dump material for a working
profit of £119,443 during the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts. However,
development work suggests that the produc-
tion of crudes is to be quickened ; also the
mill equipment has been “gradually built up
until it is now possible to handle 9000 tons
of crudes per week.”
The next table shows the quantity of
crudes broken and raised during each of the
last three years, and the cost of mining
and treating them :
1927. 1928. 1929.
Crudes raised, tons .. 441,200 425,599 422.423
Mining . . . . 235. 7.9 d. 245. 1.3 d. 245. 8.4 d.
Development . . . . Is. B.od. 2s. 0.9 d. 2s. 2.0 d.
Milling . . . . 13s. O.Od. 12s. 0.6 d. 10s. B.Bd.
Total . . ' . . 38s. 3.9 d. 38s. B.Bd. 375. 7.2 d.
Of the ore put through the breakers last
year 269,729 tons, assaying 15 p.c. lead,
8.60 z. silver and 12.1 p.c. zinc, came from
the North, and 152,709 tons, assaying 11.6
p.c. lead, 7.30 z. silver and 8 p.c. zinc, from
the British mine. The combined feed was
treated at the North mill for 84,940 tons
lead concentrates and 70,160 tons zinc con-
centrates. In order to overcome treatment
difficulties, due mainly to the rhodonite in
the fine-grained ore from the British,
improvements were recently made to the
crushing, tabling and de-sliming equipment.
The result of these improvements, and of
new chemical re-agents in the float, is reflec-
ted in improved lead and silver recoveries—
-92.9 p.c. lead, 83.3 p.c. silver and 76.8 p.c.
zinc as against 90.4 p.c. lead, 79 p.c. silver
and 78.9 p.c. zinc for the previous term.
The proportions for.the six months to .Tune
30 were 94.1 p.c. lead, 85.5' p.c. silver and
77.2 p.c, zinc, and still better results are
anticipated during the current term.
Subject to industrial conditions, an ad-
equate water supply and price movements
in the metal markets, it all looks encouraging
for future earnings.
As a set-off against possible adverse move-
ments in other directions, much is expected
of the new- central power plant when it
gets to work. It is scheduled to be in full
swing in 1932; the estimated total cost is
£500,000. llow much of that the North will
have to find is not stated, but the board
will have no difficulty in putting its hands
on the money, as this comparison of balance-
sheet figures shows: —
1924. 1928. 1929.
Debentures . . . . *£92,400 £32,600 £20,900
Sundry creditors . . 121,094 64,413 66,044
Taxes and royalty .. 121,673 35,674 81,749
Mine and plant .. 850,981 1,037,563 1,059,776
Stocks 550,785 420,783 478,118
Stores 87,854 109,320 87,905
Investments . . . . 440,445 535,220 528,970
Book debts . . . . 40,980 13,152 6,854
Cash, Government securi-
ties, etc 363,173 624,496 846,061
Aimther item which will call for a lot of
cash, probably over a quarter of a million,
is the new shaft (21Jft. x 10ft.), which is
being sunk in order to more profitably
handle the ore body below the 1700 ft. level.
This shaft was sunk a further 246 ft. in
country rock last year, and is down 356 ft.
from the surface. The job will probably take
another three years to complete.
Estimated ore reserves have remained at
4,000,000 tons for the last six years, though
no less than 2,120,491 tons have been raised
during that time. About 80 p.c. of the
reserves are located in the North mine, and
there arc still large bodies of ore known
to exist, but not included in the estimates.
There is no mention as to what progress,
if any, has been made with the formation of
the special investment trust—it was to be a
public go.—to take over the respective Aus-
tralian investments of the North, South
and Zinc Corp. , The North’s investments,
by the way, turned in enough to pay 20.3
p.c. on its capital last year. The share
market, which does not anticipate that the
expiration of the zinc contract with the
British Government next year will very
seriously affect the co.’s profits, places the
scrip at the head of the silver-lead stocks. It
prices the pound shares at £5 14s. as against
£4 two years ago and £7 tw-elve months
before that.
Farmer and Co., Ltd.
, Dividends N
Ist Prefs. 2nd Prefs. Ord.
July, Profits. 6 p.c. 7 p.e. 15 p.c. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1919.. 54,995 12,000 12,995 30,000 110,000
Transferred to capital. £100,000.. 10,000
124 p.c.
1920.. 98,049 12,000 14,331 32.500 49,218
10 p.c.
1921.. 77,561 12,000 19,570 33,816 61,393
Reserve for war-taxation and contingencies
taken in, £50,542 .. .. 111,935
1922.. 78,304 12,000 19,570 33,816 124,853
Premiums on new shares, £2250 .. 127,103
1923.. 84,552 12,000 23,059 36,292 140,304
Premiums on new shares, £124 .. 140,428
1924.. 85,164 12,000 28,000 39,441 146,151
1925.. 93,530 12,000 28,000 39,442 160,239
Premiums on new shares, £2268 .. 162,507
1926.. 98,413 12,000 28,000 39,721 181.199
Discount on debentures, £17,500 . . 163,699
Insurance fund appears, £13,983.. 177,682
1927.. 102,506 12,000 28,000 40,000 200,188
1928.. 95,143 12,000 28.000 40,000 215,331
1929.. 92,020 12,000 28,000 40,000 227,351
Although events conspired to make trading-
difficult last year, big department stores like
Farmer’s were able to make adjustments and
push business, largely by advertising and
by cuts in seasonal lines wherever they were
slow to move. So a brisk turnover was
maintained, though profit margins probably
had to be cut a trifle finer to do it. These
influences are reflected in the co.’s latest
accounts by a slip of £3123 in the disclosed
net earnings, making the recession £10,486
over the last two years. That is after in-
cluding as profit unexplained additions to
the insurance fund (£20,248), up £1375 last
year.
Nevertheless the £92,020 netted was a very
satisfactory showing. After attending to
the requirements of both lots of prefs.—to-
gether they called for £40,000 —the balance
of the year’s net earnings was 13 p.c. on
average ord. capital. For the previous year
the ratio wa.s 13.7 p.c., and 15.6, 14.7, 13.5
and 11.4 p.c. for the four years before that.
So the 10 p.c. to the ords. continues to be
quite a comfortable matter.
Indeed, the surprising thing is that the
management has been able to win such good
results considering the large amount of
money which of recent years has been repre-
sented by property that has not had a chance
to bring in much of a return. With an eye
to the future the board bought, one by one,
adjoining freeholds, until the co. became
owner of an entire end of one of the most
valuable blocks in Sydney. To see the
George-Market streets section of the big new
building to completion a round half-million
6 p.c. first-mortgage debentures were issued
shortly before the close of accounts in 1927.
Thus the book value of freeholds, plant, etc.,
grew from £573,762 in 1920 to £1,343,155 at
July 31 last. As extra space became avail-
able the co. used it, of course, but earnings
have not yet felt the full benefit of the new
building. On the other hand, the debenture
interest and other charges have piled up the
outgo.
An interesting feature of the accounts is
that no less than 70.4 p.c. of the balance-
sheet total was represented by fixed assets
when the books last closed, whereas the pro-
portion was only 51.2 p.c. three years
earlier, and there was not a hundred pounds
difference in the book value of stocks at tlie
two dates. It is obvious then that trade
needs to be both large and very lively to
enable satisfactory profits to be earned on
all the capital now invested.
Here is the co.’s position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it, together with compari-
sons illustrating the expansion of the busi-
ness since pre-war days :
1914. 1924. 1928. 1929.
Capital . . £400,000 £994,415 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Debentures 500,000 500,000
O t h e r
creditors 204,740 129,792 159,592 159,958
Freeholds
and plant 431,778 627,950 1,235,894 1,343,155
Leaseholds 14,356 1,700
Stock . . 174,659 467,002 410,620 366,847
Book debts 37,470 101,718 105,475 102,939
Cash and in-
vestments 56,048 91,708 142,934 94,368
Last year £107,261 was added to the book
value of freeholds, plant, etc. —incidentally,
there is a nice inner reserve in that item.
To do it stocks were worked down £43,773,
and cash and investments were drawn upon
for £48,566. Still, the finances were com-
fortable; the more or less liquids (£564,154)
were £404,196 in excess of the floating debt
at July 31.
How the future is going to shape nobody
can say definitely. Indications are that for
the current term trade generally will be
quieter, and the shortage of Australian
money in London will not make the cost of
importing any lighter. But the chief danger
lies in the money invested in premises, plant,
etc., becoming in excess of trade require-
ments, a circumstance in which the weight of
the debenture debt would make itself felt,
and, of course, the ords. would be the first
to suffer. But the co. enjoys capable man-
agement, and it has an excellent shopping
position arid a very extensive goodwill that
does not figure in the accounts.
The debentures, redeemable at par in 1939,
are secured by a mortgage on the freehold,
and can be had around par on the market.
Of the million of share capital £200,000 is
in 6 p.c. first cum. prefs., and the balance
in an equal number of 71 p.c. second cum.
prefs. and ords. The market prices the
firsts at 19s. 6d., the seconds at 20s. 3d. and
the ords at 27.5. 3d. The return at those
figures is 6.1 p.c., 7.4 p.c. and 7.3 p.c. respec-
tively. In the same order the backing is
£6 2s. 9d., £2 11s. 4d. and 31s. 4d. in net
tangibles. The prefs. rank in the order
stated, and have priority as to capital; last
year’s profit was more than twice their com-
bined annual requirements.
The Australasian Paper and Pulp Co., Ltd.
Writ- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. ten Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
1921*. 72,938 10 p.c. = 62,130 10,808
1922.. 69,421 8 „ „ 59,720 10,000 10,509
1923.. 77,913 8 „ „ 63,885 14,000 10,536
1924.. 79,553 8 ~ „ 67,720 12,000 10,370
Preliminary exes., £7675 .. .. 2 695
Pref. Ord.
1925.. 91,027 8 p.c. 6 p.c. =57,258 30,000 6,464
Deficit.
Reserves disappear, £lO,OOO .. 3 536
1926.. 97,177 8 p.c. 7 p.c.=72,535 23,500 2,394
Reserves.
Premiums on shares, £14,344 .. 11,950
Assets transferred to subsidiary.
Added to reserves, £89,107 .101,057
1927.. 95,923 8 p.c. 8 p.c. =83,000 113,980
Sept.,
1928 f • 70,781 8 p.c. 6 p.c. =71,3961 113.365
1929.. 28,848 8 p.c. 2 p.c.=36,762 105.451
*Ten months. IFifteen months.
JDivs. to June 30, 1928.
The ords. have averaged only 7 p.c. over the
last nine years, and better than that might
have been expected. But shortly after the
present co. amalgamated the Sydney Paper
Mills and the Australian Paper Mills, Mel-
bourne, in 1920, a trade war with the Cum-
berland Board Mills, Sydney, began. Of
course, it did neither co. any good, so, three
years back, their respective boards buried
the hatchet, and the two cos. merged their
interests into one operating concern, Aus
tralian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd., which
took over the assets of the old cos. on a
valuation basis for scrip.
The A. P. and P. co. received 1,089,271
shares, including 80,107 for surplus assets,
having either written up their book value
before transfer, or somethinng may have been
included for goodwill. Subsequent par issues
by the manufacturing co. advanced the A. P.
and P. Co.’s holding therein to £1,241,889.
Other assets at June 30 were £56,645 of
deposits at call, and a small cash balance
(£76). There was £12,843 coming to credi-
tors, and paid capital was £1,152,618 in
228,500 prefs and 924,118 ords.
But competition and price cutting were
not the only troubles. Some of the plant was
out of date; hence the management has been
unable to make it earn a decent profit on its
book value, and. results since the merger have
been disappointing. In its first year to June,
1927, the manufacturing co. claimed a net
profit of £141,990, but made no allowance out
of earnings for depreciation. For the next 12
months the board said the profit was
£129,504, or 8.4 p.c. on the share capital
of £1,600,000. That was after special writ-
ings down totalling £23,187, and then setting
aside £23,357 as the ordinary allowance for
depreciation and £15,238 for other charges.
In October last the co.’s Cumberland Mills
(Sydney) were destroyed by fire. The imme-
diate result was a reduction of about 140
tons per week in the co.’s out-turn of paper
hoard. A fresh but smaller board plant was
erected at Botany (Sydney) and additions
made to the Fairfield (Vic.) mill, and the
output has been brought up to what it was
before the fire. Meanwhile the inevitable
dislocation increased overhead, and earn-
ings were severely curtailed. The direct,
loss as a result of the fire is put at £20,059.
Exactly what the manufacturing co. netted
for the 12 months to June 30 is not men-
tioned. When its books were then ruled off it
hr said to have had £43,470 available for
distribution, after allowing for depreciation
and taxation. Meantime a small dividend
had been paid. If it is intended to make the
co.’s figures available, and apparently it is,
shareholders would be much bettor informed
if the accounts weije sent out with the hold-
ing co.’s sheets instead of a precis of the posi-
tion being given at the annual meeting.
For the year to Sept. 30 the A. P. and
P. Co. gathered £33,098 in dividends and
interest as against £123,137 in the previous
term. Exes, took £4250, leaving the £28,848
of profit shown in the table. The prefs.
called for £17,280 of that, the balance being
equal to 1.2 p.c. on average ord. capital
compared with .6, 9.7, 7.2, 6.3 and 9 p.c.
back to 1924. Nevertheless the board con-
sidered prospects good enough to pay 2 p.c.,
though to do it the so-called reserves were
dipped into for £7914, reducing them to
£105,451.
In the manufacturing co.’s sheet the effects
of the fire are further reflected in a drop
of £134,712 in the book value of fixed assets
(£1,271,487). Stocks (£279,742) are down
£195,373, and £220,755 has been wiped off
the outside debt, reducing it to £169,940.
Altogether the more or less liquid surplus
(£403,971, including stocks) was over
£123,000 stronger than at the previous
balance.
In order to wipe out the loss on the Cum
berland mill, eliminate goodwill (£104.708)
and other intangibles from the accounts, and
bring the book value of plant, etc., more into
line with its real worth, £326,000, equal to
4s. per share, is to be struck off the manu-
facturing co.’s paid capital, reducing it to
£1,280,000 in 16s. shares. This, of course,
will have no effect whatever on the earning
power of the assets concerned, but should
enable the co. to pay a better rate of div.
on capital as reduced.
No cut is to be made in the A. P. and P.
Co.’s capital. In its books the writing-down
will represent a reduction of £248,37S in
the figure at which shares in other cos.
appear—the shrinkage is equal to ss. 4d.
per ordinary share. No notice, therefore,
need be taken of the £105,451 of paper re-
serves at Sept. 30.
Future prospects will depend largely upon
the efficiency of the plant. If it has not
been brought thoroughly up to date, then,
so far as the two holding cos. are concerned,
it will still be difficult to win satisfactory
profits at competitive prices. However, the
manufacturing co.’s finances are in much
better shape than formerly, its mill capacity
is said to be equal to the Australian demand
for kraft paper, and the plant has been
kept busy for the last three months. Also
there should be savings in overhead. The
co., by the way, has acquired an interest in
Tasmanian Paper Pty., Ltd., which will
entitle it to take up a quarter interest in


FOR PUBLIC INFORMATION ONLY.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
Australian Benzol and Coal Distillation Ltd
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £300,000, divided into 600,000 shares of 10/- each.
DIRECTORS:
JAMES VICARS, Esq., M.E., M.lnst.C.E., M.l.E.Aust., M.1.A., Challis House,
Martin Place, Sydney, Consulting Engineer (Chairman).
SIR J. H. BUTTERS, C.M.G., M.8.E., M.lnst.C.E,, M.1.E.E., M.l.E.Aust., M.Am.
Soc.C.E., Canberra.
BANKERS'
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED, BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
PROMOTERS:
THE AUSTRALIAN INVESTMENT TRUST, LTD., I 7 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
AUDITORS:
THOMAS, DAVIS, SHEEDY AND CO., Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
2 Martin Place, Sydney.
SIR JOHN HARRISON, K.8.E., Governing Director J. C. Harrison and Son,
Ltd., Builders, Hunter Street, Sydney.
BRIG.-GEN. H. W. LLOYD, C. 8., C.M.G., C.V.0., D. 5.0., M.L.A., Baulkham
Hills.
R. P. SIMS, Esq., Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney, Consulting Engineer.
SOLICITORS:
CAMPBELL AND CAMPBELL, Herald Building, Pitt Street, Sydney.
CONSULTING CHEMISTS:
MENDELSOHN AND PHILLIPS, Hoskins’ Buildings, 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
SECRETARIES:
F. I. W. HARRISON, SON AND KNOX, Chartered Accountants 'Aust.),
1 5 Bent Street, Sydney.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
Brook House, 6th Floor, I 7 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
IMPORTANCE OF THE INDUSTRY.
An event of the greatest national importance synchronises with the flotation of Australian Benzol & Coal Distillation Ltd., a Company formed to treat coal by
the Illingworth Low Temperature Carbonisation process. It has long been recognised that the main cause of the depression in the coal trade was due primarily to the
ever-increasing competition in the Australian field of industrial crude oils. The contributing factors were th? rise in the cost of winning the coal, owing to advance
in wages and hewing rates, and the greater economy with which fuel oils could be handled.
As there is no prospect of a reduction in mining costs, the only alternative is to scientifically treat coal as it comes from the pit. By doing so, valuable
by-products are won from it and the residue is left in such a form that it will be readily marketable at prices almost equal to those of the coal in its original
form. It becomes obvious that the accomplishment of this will again place coal in the position of importance it previously held as a generator of heat.
The Directors of this Company are convinced that the plant it is proposed to instal will attain this objective, and therefore they recommend the
consideration of Australian Benzol & Coal Distillation Ltd., not only as a means of reviving a vital national industry, but from the viewpoint of participating in an
industry whose future offers unlimited possibilities.
The by-products will be extracted from the raw coal by an application of heat, and the process will be self-supporting in that the gas liberated from the coal
during carbonisation is far more than sufficient to furnish the necessary heat for the retorts.
RICOAL.
“Ricoal,” the name of the solid residue discharged from the retorts after carbonisation by the Illingworth process, is a smokeless fuel containing approximate y
8 per cent, of volatile matter, which is sufficient to ensure easy combustion. It has a high calorific value, approximately 90 per cent, of the calorific value of tfie
coal carbonised in producing it, but as an offset to the reduced calorific value is the elimination by low-temperature carbonisation of many of the undesirab e
combustible elements of raw coal, and which in themselves produce by-products of high value when subjected to scientific recovery treatment.
THE PROPOSED ACTIVITIES OF THE COMPANY.
While a very large number of by-products may be obtained from coal, Australian Benzol & Coal Distillation Ltd. intends to concentrate on producing:
(a) Ricoal (smokeless fuel).
(b) Fuel oils and tar. •
(c) Benzol.
(d) Sulphate of Ammonia, and
(e) Fuel gas.
These will find a ready market, and will yield the greatest immediate return for capital outlay.
PROPOSED CAPITAL OUTLAY AND CAPITALISATION.
Cost, including installation of Plants for:—
Coal Carbonisation .. .. .. .. .. .. .. •• •• •• •• •• •• • • £96,000
By-products Recovery . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • • • • • • • • • • 26,000
Cost of Colliery property . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • •
Cost of Colliery Plant, including installation and development . . . . . . . . • *
Cost of Wharfage Accommodation
Payment in lieu of Royalty on initial Plant and a 5 % interest in the total share capital of Illingworth Carbonisation Co.
(Aust.) Ltd.
Payment to Messrs. Ennis & Cant for 10% interest of the total share capital of Illingworth Carbonisation Co. (Aust.) Ltd.
Promotion and other Preliminary Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • • • • • • • •
Working Capital . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • •
Total Capital Outlay . . . . . . . .
This outlay will be financed by the issue of
420,000 fully-paid Shares of 10/- each for cash . . . . . . . .
80,000 fully-paid Shares of 10/- each in part payment of cost of Colliery Property . .
6,000 fully-paid Shares of 10/- each in lieu of Royalty
5,000 fully-paid Shares of 10/- each for 10% interest in Illingworth Carbonisation Company (Aust.) Ltd. . .
£60,000
19,000
7,000
£122,000
520,000
£86,000
3,250
2,500
20,250
26,000
£260,000
£214,500
40,000
3,000
2,500
£260,000
The above Capitalisation does not take into account any possible Bank accommodation or other external finance.
MARKET FOR THE COMPANY’S PRODUCTS.
This question has received the closest attention of the Management, and an exhaustive survey was carried out amongst distributors before deciding upon
the prices on which to base anticipated revenue returns. On the conservative basis set out hereunder the sale of the plant s entire output can be confidently
anticipated, in fact, there is every indication that the demand will exceed the maximum possible supply by a very wide margin.
It is not necessary to point out the very great field there is in Australia for the sale of Benzol and Oil; the Hard, Smokeless, Domestic and Industrial Fuel
known as ’’Ricoal’.’ will be in immediate demand, and every ton of this fuel the Company produces can be disposed of at excellent prices. In this connection it
may be mentioned that coal from various deposits in different parts of the world has been carbonised in the Illingworth English Plant. Samples of the resultant
“Ricoal” have been received, and may be inspected at the registered office of the Company.
A good market is always available for all kinds of fertiliser, and the Company’s Ammonium Sulphate will find a very satisfactory market at prices ensuring
profitable returns.
ESTIMATED PROFITS.
When the plant is in full working order it will treat 380 tons of raw coal per day, or an average of, say, 135,000 tons per annum.
SUMMARY.
Estimated Annual Revenue . . . . . . . . . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • £1 7 7,294
Estimated Annual Expenditure . . . . . . . . • • • • • ■ • • • • • • • • • • • • 124,875
Estimated Annual Profit . .
Deduct Income Taxes at Current Rates (Federal 1/-, and State 3/3 in the £)
£52,419
1 1,139
£41,280
Leaving available for distribution or reserves
On a Capitalisation of £260,000, the above amount of £41,280 represents a return of approximately 16% PER ANNUM.
Mr. R. P. Sims, Consulting Engineer, reports:
”1 have carefully examined and analysed the Prospectus as submitted to me covering the flotation of Australian Benzol & Coal Distillation, Limited, for the
purpose, principally, of the purchase and development of a Coal Property situated near the mouth of Lake Macquarie, New South and the erection and
operation there of a Low-Temperature Carbonising Plant on the Illingworth Process, having an initial maximum carbonising capacity of 380-420 tons of raw coal
per day, with a By-products Recovery Plant to deal with the respective yields from such Carbonising Plant.
Based on a normal carbonising capacity of 135,000 tons of raw coal per annum, I find that your estimates of cost, operation and revenue are fair and
reasonable, and the undertaking should prove to be an industry of considerable value.”
It will be noted that the price of oils is taken at only 3d. per gallon, and the Benzol at 1/9 per gallon at Works. It must also be noted that no credit has been
taken for the sale of surplus coal from the Colliery.
CONTRACTS.
The following Contracts have been entered into and may be inspected at the office of the Company s Solicitors:
(1) Memorandum of Agreement made the 23rd day of October, 1929, between George Hollis Harding (Vendor) of the one part and Australian Benzol
and Coal Distillation, Ltd., of the other part.
(2) Memorandum of Agreement dated the 31st day of October, 1929, between the Illingworth Carbonisation Company (Aust.), Ltd., of the one part
and Australian Benzol and Coal Distillation, Ltd., of the other part.
(3) Memorandum of Agreement dated the 31st day of October, 1929, between The Australian Investment Trust, Ltd., of the one part and Australian
Benzol and Coal Distillation, Ltd., of the other part.
(4) Memorandum of Agreement dated the 31st day of October, 1929, between Lawrence Ennis and James Houston Cant of the one part and Australian
Benzol and Coal Distillation, Ltd., of the other part.
COMPLETE PROSPECTUS MAY BE OBTAINED AT THE
Registered Office of the Company, Brook House, 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
OR FROM
The Australian Investment Trust Limited,
Brook House, 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.


The Crash in
il New York
Tens of thousands of Ameri-
cans have just been ruined
through not knowing what
was ahead.
Tens of thousands of Aus-
tralians are risking heavy loss
in exactly the same way.
The “Wild Oat” Monthly
doesn’t know everything. But
it puts before you a tremendous
quantity of data from which
you can draw your own con-
clusions.
In these uncertain days
every investor —even though
it be only in a life insurance
policy—owes it to himself and
his family to keep himself
informed.
Let the Monthly help you.
NOVEMBER NUMBER
NOW ON SALE
SINGLE COPY, 2/- ; PER ANNUM,
22/6. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & ITassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. —A pvt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained, Colmson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * -•!;
Proposed mining parties to Papua should make
arrangements for native labor before proceeding to
Port Moresby. Time saved by wiring the number
of boys required. Mining boys cost £4/10/- each
for any time up to 18 months, delivered at Port
Moresby, and arrangements have to be made with
Bank at Port Moresby guaranteeing total wages.
Recruiting fees have to be guaranteed also. Recruit-
ing fees, 15/- per month for mining boys. Signing-
on fee, 6/- per boy, and equipment to be supplied
each native to the value of 6/- per boy. This
extra 12/- has to be paid by the employer. Suit-
able stores supplied. A Radio sent to Steamships
Trading Company, Limited, Port Moresby, Papua
(Contractors for mail services to the Commonwealth
and Papuan Governments), and all arrangements will
be made for your labor to be in readiness for you on
arrival. Cable address: “Steamships,” Port Moresby.
The local agents, Nelson and Robertson, 12 Spring
Street, Sydney, will be pleased to give all particulars.
—Advt.
* * * *
The fact that Pioneer Wood Pipe is absolutely
non-corrosive is one very good reason for its universal
acceptance by engineers as a conduit for practically
any type of fluid conveyance. Being easily handled
and laid, Pioneer Wood Pipe incurs very little
expense for installation, whilst its small first cost
is considerably less than inetal pipes. Write for
illustrated data-book giving interesting and instruc-
tive information. The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. (near
Figtree Bridge); and at Footseray, Victoria.— Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree.— -Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MaDE.—Prices and
particulars from Bulliyants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. li. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
YG
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
%
DT
A
-Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents, 26 20 Clarence St., Sydney
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872..
Head Offices Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-Glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone,
etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
mil
Get your
ip
PAINfs and
VARNISHES
from
AGENTS
EVERYWHERE.
THEY " KEEP ON KEEPING ON !”
any new co. that might be formed to develop
the Tasmanian co.’s activities.
On the market the- A. P. and P.’s ords.
are priced at 17s. 9d. as against 18s. 9d.
a year ago. At the current price a 6 p.c.
div. would return the investor 6.8 p.c. The
prefs. have been steady around 245., at which
figure the return is 6.6 p.c. They are en-
titled to a cumulative 8 p.c., and have prior-
ity a.s to capital. After allowing for the
writing down the net tangible backing
amounts to £4 11s. 6d. per share. Last year's
reduced profit was over 14 times their annual
requirements.
Equitable Life Co. of Australasia.
This co. was registered in Brisbane in
1922, and four years later altered its name-
plate by substituting “Australasia” for
“Queensland.” The promoter was Frederick
Levy, who used to be the A.P.A.’s inspector
in Queensland. He became managing director
and took 15,000 fully-paid 10s. shares: —
Ordinary Department.
Ex- Excess Out-
Income. Claims, penses. goings. Deficit.
1923.. 11,543 128 16,611 5196 30,426
Added establishment account, £1575.. 32,001
1924.. 19,508 331 19,528 351 . 32,352
Intangibles reduced, £145 .. .. 32,207
Surplus.
1925.. 24,778 1552 20,566 2660 • 29,547
1926.. 30,396 2906 24,890 2600 26,947
1927.. 35,486 4824 26,848 3814 23.133
Added establishment account, £2132 . . 25,265
1928.. 42,574 5232 31,591 5751 19,514
Added establishment account, £3997 . . 23,511
1929.. 46,884 6022 30,479 10,383 13,128
At June 30 last paid capital was £91,310 in
33.2,972 part-paid 10s. shares, of which 33,418
were put out at par during the 12 months to
that date. A premium was got on some of the
earlier issues, though those who paid it, no
doubt, have since asked themselves why they
did so. The cost of opening up branches in
Sydney and Melbourne, of share-selling and
of other items charged to establishment ran
off with £55,806. What last year's share-
selling cost is . not mentioned, but there was
an unexplained amount of £3997 charged to
establishment during the term, thus heaping
the intangibles to £63,306 at June 30.
Not that the co. lias failed to make pro-
gress. Income has more, than quadrupled
in the last six years; it overtook outgo in
1925, and has lengthened its lead each year
since. That is disregarding expenditure
capitalised, of course. At the same time,
the ratio of exes, to premium income lias
stepped down consistently; it was 69.4 p.c.
last year as against 79, 81.4, 89.3, 90.8 and
107.7 p.c. back to 1924. But since the office
reserves only 22.9 p.c. of the annual premium
income for future expenses and profits, those
ratios need to be brought down a long way
yet before anything worth while can be
earned in the way of bonuses.
Here is a more' detailed view of the
business:—
1923. 1928. 1929.
Proposals accepted .. 1,076 1,386 1,150
Sum assured .. .. £302,588 £413,346 £370,818
First premiums . . 10,040 11,918 11,305
Renewals . . . . 76 28,063 32,557
Interest, rent, etc. . . 1,427 2,593 3,022
Total income . . . . 11,543 42,574 46,884
In seven years the management has put
£2,510,079 of business on the books. But
only £1,430,076, or 57 p.c. of it, remained in
force at June 30; and if, as is claimed,
renewals have never dropped below 80 p.c.,
then at least 23 p.c. of the business writteu
must have been lost through claims of one
kind and another, which would be a very
heavy proportion for an office only seven
years old.* Incidentally, two years ago
holders of approximately one-quarter of the
participating policies in force were over 50
years of age;
The Equitable set out to specialise in
probate insurance, a form of policy-writing
in which a high percentage of renewals and
an early policy maturity can be expected.
But competition lias been very keen, and
probate premium rates are usually a bit finer
than the rates on other classes of policies.
On the generally accepted basis that new pre-
miums are 10 times more costly than re-
newals, the cost of putting last year’s new
business on the books was 209 p.c. as
against 214, 219 and 225 p.c. in the three
preceding years. Certainly, the cost rate is
moving definitely in the right direction, due
largely to a reorganisation of the field-staff
a couple of years ago; but probably other
outlets require overhaul. What is plain is
that, on an average, more than two years’
premiums have to be paid before a penny
can be set aside against the inevitable day
when policies become claims, and that puts
a very severe handicap upon the co.’s profit-
earning capacity, and therefore upon bonus
and dividend prospects.
Last year bonuses were allotted on all
participating policies in force at June 30,
1928, at the rate of £2 per cent, on whole-
of-nte and 30s. per cent, on endowment
assurances. It is not stated when these
bonuses vest in the policy-holder, or whether
they are simple or compound. Whatever
their nature, it is pretty certain that they
were not earned, so the sum involved is
really a gift to policy-holders from share-
holders out of capital, temporarily, at any
rate. Assuming that the life fund at June
30 (£50,178) exactly covered the liability
under policies, then the year’s operations
resulted in a loss of £3OB, and this was added
to the establishment account together with
the amount above referred to.
The protection for policy-holders was in
this form :
1923. 1928. 1929.
Government securities . . £21,199 £35,000 £37,780
Mortgages .. .. —6,846 6,894
Loans on policies .. 1,129 1,883
Book debts . . . . 1,611 9,970 13,429
Cash 2,075 1,474 8,112
Equipment, etc... .. 5,924 6,602 6,185
Premises . . .. 55,818 55,864
Total tangible assets .. £30,809 £ 116,839 £130,147
Liabilities . . . . 969 53,100 50,372
Net tangible assets .. £29,840 £63,739 £79,775
Paid capital .. .. 59,833 82,814 91,310
At June 30 net tangible assets had a book
value £29,597 in excess of the life fund, and
there was £70,176 of uncalled capital besides.
Shareholders could see 6s. 6d. of every £1
they put up still in tangible form.
During the term the co. is to move into the
new home—Preston House, now Equitable
Life Building, in Queen-street, Brisbane —
which it bought for £55,000 a year or so
ago, and savings in overhead are expected
to follow.
The co. is fighting hard to establish itself
on a solid basis, and its prospects are not
altogether discouraging. Much will depend
upon how soon the management can get
costs back to a level that will permit of
bonuses to policy-holders being earned. After
that there is a fine heap of intangibles
calling for reduction ; dividends are not yet
in sight.
The co.’s accident business brought in
£2331 in net premiums last year, and claims
and exes, took all but £230 of it. At the
close of accounts the accident reserve stood
at £669.
> The British Australian Mining Explora-
tion Co., Ltd., is on the stocks in Brisbane
with a nominal capital of £500,000 in £1
shares, of which 60,000 are offered, These
have been underwritten at a commission of
74 p.c., and each share carries a two years’
option to take up one new share at par. The
promoter, A. J. .Tones, Queensland’s ex-
Minister for Mines, takes £40,000 in fully
paids. He lias lodged, under seal with the
trustee for the co., information relating to
mineral deposits in Queensland and else-
where. It is a prospecting concern in which
an English mining finance corporation, to
be formed in London, is expected to become
interested ; the aim being to ensure capital
for the development of propositions con-
sidered worth while. These are to be worked
by subsidiaries, or other concerns, to which
they will be sold. The co. has possibiliti
On the board are A. ,T. Jones (chairman),
Louis Burkard, Joe Millican and Fred Heart.
❖ ifc :Jc #
The Cairns-Papuan Sugar Syndicate is
turning itself into the Sangara Sugar
Estates, Ltd., of Papua, with the view of
finding capital to develop 20,000 acres at
Sangara, which has its port at Buna Bay
(Papua). The land is said to be well
watered and drained, and climate and soil are
alleged to be equal to those of Java. The
new co. is made up to a big extent of North
Queensland growers, who see lean times
ahead for sugar in the North so far as export-
ing goes. Recently Seymour Il'owe, general
manager of the Mulgrave Mill, at Gordon-
vale (N.Q.), went to Papua to report for
the co. upon the possibilities of growing
and milling profitably at Sangara. He came
back with a vision of gold. Apart from the
cheapness and reported ample supply of
native, labor, the people interested have
faith in the Imperial idea. They reason
that there is no over-production in the
British Empire, and figure that the 60,000
tons which they hope to place on the British
market will supplant that amount of the
product of Java, Cuba, Hawaii, etc.
❖ * :Jc jj:
Writing from the Edie Creek goldfield
a correspondent tells the “Wild Cat” that
locally there is much perturbation because of
recent developments in connection with
Ellyou’s activities. “Ellyou has stopped the
railroad wharf (at Salamoa), paying off
about 500 boys, and has cut the staff down,
and seems to be retrenching everywhere. We
all wonder what is going to happen next. No
one seems to know.” There are several pos-
sible explanations. One is that the prelimi-
nary work on the proposed railway having
been completed, the services of the native
workers will not be required for the present,
or until the real business of laying the line
commences. Another is that everything has
not worked out up to expectations, and that
a ca’-canny attitude has been adopted for
the time being. Many doubt whether the
alluvial gold remaining on the Edie plateau,
considerable as it is, will prove to be suffi-
cient to pay good dividends on the big nro-
jected capital. Chief hope lies in the dis-
covery of a large old-man No. 1 reef. Thus
far the existence of anything of the kind
hasn’t been indicated.
Ernest Bails recently left Sydney for New i
Guinea w r ith a handful of commissions. His
first job will be in connection with a lease
lately acquired by New Guinea Develop-
ments, work on which the late H. W. Clark
was about to undertake when he died in
Rabaul. Other inspections will be made for
New Guinea Options and N. G. Gold and
Osmiridium.
* * si: *
Return Creek Tin Co., Mt. Garnet (N.Q.)
is in trouble; the dredge has been laid up
until the wmter in the paddock can be raised,
and that may not be until next month.
Recoveries for the four weeks to Oct. 7, were
81 tons black tin from 54,000 c.y., an average
of only ,351 b. per yard. The disappointing
results to date, the chairman says, are due
mainly to the dredge being unable to dig
to the required depth on account of tailings
running in behind the plant and pushing it
forward.
Shareholders are being asked to increase
nominal capital to £106,250 by raising the
face value of the 85,000 20s. shares to 255.,
and to stand up to two Is. calls. The money
is wanted to pay off creditors and finance
alterations to the dredge.
H* •!» sj»
Despite boring reverses Freney Oil Co.
(W.A.) continues to issue cheerful reports,
and its optimism is shared by both the State
and Commonwealth Government geologists.
There is some talk in Perth of London
making a bid for the reserve shares. Except
for Freney’s, oil prospecting in the West is
at a standstill. The holders of two likely
areas in the Nor’A\ est, Wooramel River dis-
trict, have just secured exemption.
* * * *
Wiluna Co. (W.A.) is preparing for
further financing. It is impossible to say at
present how r much additional capital will
be required, but according to J. A. Agnew,
who presided at the recent annual meeting,
tne amount should be relatively small, and
shareholders are not likely to be called upon
to assist. The co. recently made some changes
in its treatment policy. Though these have
occasioned a little delay, they are expected
to result in savings of something like £20,000
in plant erection, reduce w r orking costs by
6d. a ton and improve gold recoveries by Is.
a ton.
* * * *
The high hopes of Claude de Bernales
and others of extracting oil and other things
from Fitzgerald River brown-coal deposits
(W.A.) have shrunk suddenly. Tests have
shown that the deposit has insufficient- oil
values for treatment by the low temperature
carbonisation process. It has, therefore,
been decided to cease operations and call
shareholders together.
* * * *
With tin still under the £2OO mark, there
is an atmosphere of gloom surrounding the
market for Malayan tin-dredging stocks.
However, many of the dredges are showing
profits ; indeed, the performances of several
of the newly-opened shows are highly satis-
factory. Itawang Concessions, the latest of
the Pratten-Newman brood, had a wonderful
run for October. The dredge turned over
200,000 yards for 170 tons of tin oxide, an
average of 1.901 b., returning a net profit for
the month of £10,450. Since beginning 1o
dig in July the dredge has recovered 355 tons
of ore; this is claimed as a record for
Malaya.' Costs per yard, dropped from
5.19 d. in July to 2.7 d. for October. Ghang-
kat, which has had to take second place
to the newcomer as Alluvial Tin’s star pro-
ducer, also did well, topping the pound-a-
yard mark with 56 .tons from 123,000 yards.
Kundang and Kampar Tin Fields slightly
improved on last month’s, earnings, while
Kampong Lanjut, which began recovery in
August, increased yardage and ore output,
winning 60 tons from 243,000 yards and
averaging .551 b. per yard.
In this group the most interesting hap-
pening, apart from Concessions’ dip into the
lucky bag, was the return of Malim Nawar
to active service. The show has been idle
for many months during conversion from a
dredging to a sluicing proposition. The first
run under the new conditions gave 10 tons
from 30,000 yards, average .751 b. Working
costs just balanced recovery values. All the
others showed a profit over working
expenses, the total for six mines being
£30,217 for the month.
Muang, sired by Austral Asiatic, recovered
30 tons from 77.000 yards for September,
its first working month. October’s figures
were 39.5 tons ore from 83,000 yards, the
average being 1.061 b., as against .8710 for
September. This shows a profit over work-
ing costs for the month of £3025. New
Phin Soon, being worked on tribute, recov-
ered 524 tons, but the yardage is not stated.
The recovery is much better than anything
reported from this open-cast show for a
very long time.
Nawng Pet and Haad Yai, both Malay
Siamese floats, each got over a pound a
yard, and earned a net profit of £lO5O and
£1174 respectively for the month.
The four working members of the Austral
Malay, group all showed a profit over work-
ing costs. Ivampong Kamunting recovered 64
tons from 138,000 yards, the new’ area at
Ivarangan, w r hcre No. 1 dredge is working,
yielding 47 tons of this from 88,000 yards.
The month’s profit was £4147. Asam Kum-
bang's 89J tons realised £4348; exes, took
£2OOO, leaving £2348 net. A shilling div. has
been declared. Ulu Yam cut things
fine, coming out only £042 ahead of
it. Thabawieik got £0164 for the 47 tons
recovered, but working costs left only £2702
of this. Of the other di’edges, Puchong is
still delving through the overburden, while
Pungah No. 1 expects to start digging early
in December. Austral Malay, the parent
co., has declared an interim 6d. per share
payable at the end of the month.


AW factor m the
success of Old Court
M0.30U
D
5-
pr
to
un
“W iiid * «orra
ItRAI OISTIUCRK
V«OWAN( —All
*4SS
FROM the day that Old Court Whisky was first placed
upon the market, its distillers had a great faith in
its future.
They knew that the time would come when it would be
the most popular brand of whisky sold in Australia.
They backed their faith by rolling away vast stocks to
mature in the wood for the benefit of users in the years
to come.
How sound that far-sighted policy has proved to be!
To-day, with Old Court sales at a record high peak, and
still rising, the vast reserves accumulated long ago, assure
for Australia, a whisky of wonderful mellowness and full
maturity.
To-day, there are more Bottles of Old Court IVhisky sold in
Australia than of any other single brand of whisky on the market!
No whisky offers you as much as Old Court: quality,
age, matchless purity, fine flavor, and—whether you
think of it or not—the truest value in the world.
iOTtmui
ffjhc Voricfc Purest, ( J
-AND NOW THE NATION’S FIRST FAVORITE!


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS.
THE BRITISH AUSTRALIAN MINING
EXPLORATION COMPANY LIMITED
NOMINAL CAPITAL, £500,000; divided into 500,000 shares of £1 each
AVAILABLE FOR SUBSCRIPTION.
60,000 of the above shares at par, payable 2/6 per share on application, 2/6 per share on allotment,
and the balance in calls not exceeding 2/6 per share at intervals of not less than three months.
Each of the subscribers of the above shares will be entitled to an option for two years from date thereof to subscribe
at par for one share in respect of each share allotted to him, and NEGOTIABLE OPTION CERTIFICATES will be issued
to the subscribers in respect thereof.
The whole of the above contributing shares have been underwritten at a brokerage of
No cash consideration is being paid to anyone in connection with the formation of this Company, but the Promoter
will be allotted forty thousand (40,000) fully-paid shares.
Information relative to mineral deposits in Queensland and elsewhere has been lodged by the Promoter under seal
with the Trustee for the Company.
DIRECTORS.
Hon. A. .7. .TONES, M.L.A., late Minister for Mines, Queensland, Chairman.
LOUIS BURKARD, Esq., Metal Merchant, Pitt Street, Sydney.
FRED HART, Esq., Colliery Proprietor (Director, Hart’s Aberdare Collieries), Commerce House, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
J. MILLICAN, Esq. (Late Chairman Mount. Isa Proprietary Co., Limited), Hotel Australia, Sydney.
A seat on the Board is provisionally reserved for a representative of a London Mining Group, and an interchange of capital is being arranged.
BARKERS.
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Queen Street, Brisbane
(From whom copies of the prospectus may be obtained, and with whom applications may be lodged and calls paid).
TRUSTEE.
R. C. HANCOCK, Chartered Accountant (Aust,), Royal Exchange
Buildings, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
AUDITORS.
Messrs. WHITE & HANCOCK, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CONSULTING GEOLOGIST.
WALTER E. CAMERON, B.A. (Cantab), lajte Deputy Chief
Government Geologist, Queensland
SOLICITOR.
NEIL O’SULLIVAN, Esq., Albert Street, Brisbane.
t
BROKER.
CLARENCE A. BYRNE, Esq., Griffith House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
CONSULTING ENGINEER AND SURVEYOR.
A. E. HARDING FREW, 8.E., M.1.E., Aust, T, & G. Buildings,
Brisbane.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE.
E. ROSE, 307 Queen Street, Brisbane. (Telephone: Cent. 1101)
OBJECTS.
The Company has been formed with objects as set out in the Memorandum of Association, and in particular, inter alia: —•
1. —To acquire, develop and re-sell to subsidiary companies a. number of specially selected mineral properties which have already been
submitted.
2 To investigate various mining properties of merit.
3 To explore certain mineral belts in respect of which the Directors already have very encouraging information.
A sound technical organisation is now being formed to carry into effect the above objects.
The following are extracts from letters received by the Chairman of Directors (the Hon. A. J. .Tones) from Mr. It.
Tilden Smith, Adelaide House, King William Street, London, who is Governing Director of the National Metal and Chemical
Bank, England:—
“In reference to the various conversations we have had with you respecting the development of the mineral resources of Queensland, I am
strongly of opinion, on account of the extraordinary richness of your country in all minerals; that you are in a unique position to establish
one of the most important metallurgical industries.
“I am much interested in your description of the Mineral resources of Queensland, and the opportunity for the employment of capital in
the development of same.
“f suppose you would not be prepared to accept the position of representing me in Queensland? —in which case I should be quite willing
to invest a considerable amount of money in the development of Queensland generally. 7 ’
REGISTRATION.
The Company will proceed to allotment forthwith, sufficient shares in the opinion of the Directors having already been
applied for.
Brokerage at the rate of 9d. per share will be paid in respect of applications lodged by and bearing the stamp of members
of recognised Stock Exchanges, or accredited agents, when such applications have been duly allotted.
SEND APPLICATION OR WRITE FOR PROSPECTUS TO THE SECRETARY.
BRISBANE, 28th October, 1929.
V
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
THE BRITISH AUSTRALIAN MINING EXPLORATION COMPANY, LIMITED,
Griffith House, Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Gentlemen, — I hereby apply for shares of £1 each in the capital of the above Company and enclose herewith my cheque
for £ being the application money of 2/6 per share on such shares.
I request you to allot me that or any less number of shares upon the terms of the Company’s Prospectus, dated the 28th day of October, 1929,
and I hereby agree to accept the same or any smaller number that may be allotted to me, and to pay the sum of 2/6 per share on allotment and the
f urther sums thereafter, . as provided by the said Prospectus.
I agree to It* bound by the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company, and authorise. you to place my name upon the register
of members of the Company in respect of the shares you allot to me.
NAME (in full )
(State whether Mr., Mrs. or Miss)
ADDRESS
OCCUPATION
DATE
USUAL SIGNATURE
Legal Notice.
IN THE ESTATE OF PATRICK
1 McCarthy late of Dunedin in New
Zealand Retired Baker Deceased.
TO the following persons and all persons
claiming by through and under them: —
(a.) The children and stepchildren of James Carthy
or McCarthy and Hanora Burke formerly of
Cappoquin County Waterford Ireland who were
married on the 9th February 1832 at Modeligo
County Waterford Ireland and who are both
buried in Affane Churchyard County Waterford
aforesaid and particularly the following:—
(1) James Carthy or McCarthy otherwise known
as Daw Carthy who was baptised in St.-
Mary’s Church Cappoquin on the 10th
February 1847 and was in New York City
in the year 1878.
(2) Nora Carthy or McCarthy who was in New
York City in the year 1878.
(3) Mary Carthy or McCarthy who was at one
time in the employ of Sir John Keane,
Cappoquin but subsequently removed to
London England.
(b) The brothers sisters half-brothers and half-
sisters of James Carthy or McCarthy the father
of the said Patrick McCarthy.
(c) The brothers sisters half-brothers and half-
sisters of Hanora Carthy nee Burke the mother
of the said deceased and the daughter of
Patrick Burke.
(d) The children of Walter Burke son of the said
Patrick Burke and particularly William Burke
who emigrated to Australia and Michael Burke.
(e) The children of Patrick Burke the younger son
of the said Walter Burke and particularly
Nora Burke Michael Burke Kate Burke and
John Burke.
PURSUANT to an order made on the
10th day of October 1929 by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the 31st day of March
1930 your claims to the estate of the said
Patrick McCarthy who died on the 26th day
of September 1924 failing which the said
estate will be distributed amongst those
entitled thereto disregarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 22nd day of
October, 1929.
GEO. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Refrigeration
Without Ice
CITY COMFORTS IN THE COUNTRY
THE ECONOMY REFRIGERATOR
Packed and delivered rail or boat, Sydney.
Everything complete; Price, £37.
Safe, sure and automatic refrigeration
by Primus Stove.
No working parts to lose.
Costs ljd. per day to run.
You will marvel at the clever idea oi
Refrigeration by means of heat instead
of Ice. Where Ice is unprocurable
it is worth its weight in gold.
To operate:—
Once a day —take the Freezing Unit
out of the Ice Chest and stand it on
the Primus Stove, and go about your
usual duties. In a short time the
whistle will blow, indicating that the
temperature is right for the Freezer
to be put back in the Ice Chest.
It is simplicity itself. There is nothing
to get out of order, and it will last a
lifetime.
The Ice Chest Cabinet is 24in. long,
18in. wide and 19in. deep, with
porcelain-enamel interior; comprises
Freezing Unit, Ice Tray, two Shelves
and Primus Stove.
Write for pamphlet concerning “ECONOMY REFRIGERATOR,”
“Keeps food nice without the Ice.”
Manufacturers’ Representatives:
F. R. STRANGE, LIMITED,
3 Hamilton Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8W6129.
which
Legal Notices.
IN TH'E SUPREME COURT OF NEW
1 SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1250 of 3029.
BETWEEN ELSIE LOUISA TEITZ
Petitioner and WILLIAM TEITZ
Respondent.
To WILLIAM TEITZ late of Jindera in
the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Elsie
Louisa Teitz has commenced a suit against
you the said William Teitz in this Honor-
able Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the ground of your desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to
the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the twenty-
second day of January 1930 and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding A copy of the
Petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned solicitor or his Syd-
ney Agent free of charge.
Dated this Twenty-second day of October
1929.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) C. Iv. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
A. J. Cuneo, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
Dean Street, Albury.
Whose Agents are Taylor and Kearney, 17
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
1 SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 189 of 1929.
BETWEEN BRENDA ELIZABETH
CHARLES LAWS Petitioner and
K E 1 T II W ILLI A M L A W 8
Respondent.
To PAULINE CLARA ALICIA FOOTE
late of Emerald, Queensland.
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenamed
Brenda Elizabeth Charles Laws has filed her
Petition in the Supreme Court of New South
Wales praying for a Divorce from her hus-
band Keith William Laws on the ground of
his adultery with you. She alleges that he
committed adultery with you between the
first day of July One thousand nine hundred
and twenty-six and the first day of October
One thousand nine hundred’and twenty-seven
at Emerald Springsure and Mackay in the
State, of Queensland and elsewhere. AND
TAKE NOTICE that you may on or before
tlie twenty-first day of November One
thousand nine hundred and twenty-nine
apply at the proper office of this Honorable
Court to be allowed in to defend the charge
if you so desire and in the event of your
not. doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the Petition fill'd herein may
be had on application from the undersigned
solicitors free of charge.
Dated this twenty-ninth day of October
1929.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) C. K. BODY.
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
Harry Brown and Co.. Solicitors for the
Petitioner, 07 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
NOTICE TO NEXT OF KIN.
D E JOHANN JOACHIM FRIEDRICH
A HEINRICH HOLLMAN, late of Upper
Broadwater, near Stantliorpe, in the State
of Queensland, Orchardist, deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons
claiming to be next of kin of Ludwig Hein-
rich Carl (or Karl) Bernhard Hollman, or
of Carl (or Karl) Cord (or Kord) Hollman.
brothers of the abovenamed Johann Joachim
Friedrich Heinrich Hollman, late of Upper
Broadwater, near Stantliorpe, in the State
of Queensland, who died on or about the
fifteenth day of December, 1919, at Upper
Broadwater, near Stantliorpe, in the State of
State, are hereby requested to forward proof
of their relationship to The Public Curator,
Brisbane, Queensland, on or before the
thirtieth day of April, 1930.
AND that after that date the Public
Curator will proceed to distribute the assets
of the said deceased amongst the parties
entitled thereto, having regard only to the
claims of which he shall then have had
notice. Information as to the whereabouts
of Ludwig Heinrich Carl (or Karl) Bern-
hard Hollman, and Carl (or Karl) Cord (or
Kord) Hollman, brothers of the said Johann
Joachim Friedrich Heinrich Hollman de-
ceased, or of their children (if any) is
particularly desired.
DATED this thirtieth day of October,
1929
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Official Solicitor to the Public Curator,
Brisbane.
Missing Friends.
TWI ORTON, FREDERICK ESDAILE, son
of late Sarah and George Leopold Mor-
ton, born Hobart, Tasmania, 1858, left Mel-
bourne, Victoria, 1866 with father. Will
anyone possessing knowledge of the above
please communicate with the TRUSTEES
EXECUTORS & AGENCY CO., LTD., 412
Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
{'"’LARKE. —Wanted known whereabouts of
Clarke, about 30 years ago news-
agent at West Maitland and later assisted
married daughter in newsagency business in
Market Street, Sydney.
Wanted.
RANTED
-Farm on half-shares, up
60 to 70 cows, six milkers. Applv
H. MASTERS,
108 St. Hillier’s Road,
Auburn, N.S.W.
To Let.
DOSE BAY, SYDNEY.—A beautifully-
AV situated and well-appointed Flat, over-
looking harbor, to let from Dec. 21. 4 to 8
weeks. Suit married couple and child.
Walenu, Cranbrook Road.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etr.
GILT-EDGED SECURITY
“Silver Edge”
(for tourers)
BRAKE
MOULDED LINING
(in sets) for special
braking systems.
FOR ALL J|,, MOTORISTS.
f / \
f \ I
,ii: -m 'ii,
- WON’T FAIL YOU!
“Gold Edge”
(heavy duty )
LINING
CLUTCH FACINGS
AND SEGMENTS.
RAYBESTOS BELACO LTD.
LONDON.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Melb.
§2 Macleay St
GREENKNOWE AVENUE* POTTS
POINT, SYDNEY
(Located within the City Boundary, ten
minutes jrom G.P.0.)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 160 rooms, is now open, and
features Single Rooms, Double
Rooms with Bath, and two-, three-
and four-room Suites with Bath.
Central Heating, Hot and Cold
Water, ’Phone and Bedside Lamp
in each room. Unsurpassed
Harbor views.
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines).
Telegraphic Address: ‘’Fifmac,’*
Sydney.
ABORIGIN ALITIES
“Tuppence”: They did things in a large
way in the early pastoral days. One station
manager, famous for his sarcastic tongue,
wrote his agents to send, among other things,
a tank of currants. Everything used to
come in tanks in those days, even to rum.
The agent filled the rest of the order, but
explained he had not sent the tank of cur-
rants as he feared there must be some mis-
take. The manager replied in his best man-
A SILLY THING TO DO.
Boss: “They’ve made me a J.P., Jacky. What do you think of that?”
JACKY: “Cripes, boss, you plurry fool, mine tinkit—might have i' give y’self six munce some day.”
ner. He thanked the agent for drawing his
attention to such an obvious error. He
never intended to order a tank of currants,
Of course, as anyone with any sense could
have noted, the order should have been two
tanks of currants. Another manager was
in the store one morning when the camp-
cart was going out. There was no mustard.
The camp-cook complained. “I’ll give you
blankards mustard!” Mr. Merino muttered.
He ordered half a ton ! That was in ’95 or
’96. The last time I was in that station-
store was late ’O9 and the mustard was a
long way from its finish. Other orders have
been half a ton of long-handled shovels;
half a ton of fruit-salts; one thousand sheep-
hurdles and a hundred dray-hubs; two
tanks of rum ; one ton of camp-ovens. And
one telegraphed order I saw, for a station
race-meeting,. was for half a ton of nice
girls. I don’t know what happened to the
rest of the consignment, but eight stone
seven of it still keeps me in order.
* * * *
“James B.”: “What I like about the blokes
in the bush,” said Long Dan, “is they’re so
darned good-hearted they’ll give you any-
thing they’ve got. A bloke named Bill Wil-
son lives near me. He’s poor as wood, an’
has a swarm of kids. Damfino how they
live, but good-natured, you wouldn’t believe!
Th’ other night, he’s over at my place, an’
I shows him a pig I’m fattenin’ up for
winter bacon. When he’s goin’ home, he
asks fer the loan of my wheelbarrer, an’ I
says, ‘take it,’ an’ goes ter bed. Nex’ mornin’
along comes a cuppla Wilson’s kids with
me barrer, and in it is a leg o’ pork. One
of the nippers says ‘Father brung home a pig
in your barrer las’ night, and he sent you
one of the legs.’ I goes down to the sty. No
pig. Pore ole Bill, he steals me pig, borrers
me barrer to take it home, an’ then he’s so
good-hearted he has ter send me a cut off
it!”
Sjt Sje Hi *
“Temple Bar”: “The most ingenious
blighter I ever met was me cobber Bill
Bones,” remarked Sam the Soak medita-
tively. “Bill an’ me is in a pub out west
just after a shed cuts out. In the rush an’
bustle a half-note drops to the floor an’ the
missus don’t sec it, but Bill does. ’E nudges
me. ‘See that?’ ’e says, ‘Yes,’ says I ; ‘but
it’s on the wrong side of the bar. How you
goin’ to get it?’ Bill he says nothin’, but
you can see his wits workin’. Suddenly lie
reaches into his pants-pocket, grabs out a
handful of small change an’ says to me, loud
an’ angry, ‘Yer flamin’ cow,’ he says, ‘yer
needn’t drink with me if yer don’t want to.
I don’t want the money, anyway,’ an’ with
that he throws the money over the bar and
some slides on to the floor. The missus hears
the commotion an’ turns round, an’ there’s
me tryin’ to pacify Bill. ‘Missus,’ I says, ‘me
cobber here’s goin’ crazy. He’s throwin’ his
money away,’ an’ I points to the money on
the floor. She picks it all up, pennies an’
traybits—an’ the half-note—an’ shoves it
across to Bill. Bill consents to be pacified
an’ we sets ’em up again.”
* * * $
“Arikiwai”: The scrapper who unwinds
the hardest punch for his weight is the half- ;
bred ram. A Central Otago (M.L.) squatter
has good reason to know this. He brought
home a two-year-old pedigree Jersey bull and
put him temporarily in the ram-paddock.
With the station-hands he sat on the fence,
amused at the bull’s antics in annoying a
half-bred ram. The woolly soon reckoned the
joke had gone far enough, and, standing off,
shot like a torpedo at his tormentor. The
bull lowered his head and took the impact
fair between the eyes. The squatter’s jaw
dropped when his 100-guinea purchase did
likewise, of no further value save as an
army ration.
v *i* •!"
“G.8.L.”: Brown Brother, when he makes
a serious study of the
subject, learns a iot>
about toxicology. Dur-
ing 1812-13 Charles
Waterton undertook
an expedition through
Demerara to find out
how the South Ameri-
can Indians prepared
poison for their arrows.
He discovered that
the Macoushi Indians
used the wourali or
cqrari vine, two kinds
of bulbous plants con-
taining a glutinous,
green-colored juice,
and a root of a very
bitter taste. These
were scraped into thin
shavings and placed
in a vessel over a slow
fire. Two kinds of
ants were then added,
also strong pepper and
the pounded fangs of
the labarri and couna-
couchi snakes. A
quantity of water
completed the mixture,
which was eventually
reduced to a brownish
syrup. Waterton says
that a wild hog
dropped dead about
170 yards distant from
where it was wounded
wi t h an arro w
anointed with this
stuff. A sloth, said to
be the most tenacious
of life of all animals,
died 11 minutes after '
the arrow had pricked
it. An ox pierced by
three poison-arrows
died in 25 minutes, and fowls expired in five
minutes.
■* * * *
“A. B. See”: The existence of human
beings with tails has been discussed in this
page from time to time, but never with any
degree of credulity. Scoffers will now please
incline their ears. In the London Times
(11/9/’29) Dr. W. liushton Parker quotes
the Royal Anthropological Institute as his
authority for saying: “It is an inexplicable
strange fact that the great majority of in-
fants born with visible tails are females.”
“C-hevroford”: “Frigid” (B. 9/10/’29)
nominates gympie as the lightest wood in
Australia, and states it can be lighter than
cork. Can he state definitely if gympie is
to be bought commercially and if the specific
gravity of gympie compares favorably with
balsa wood, which is .112, or only a little
over one-tentli the weight of water? Balsa
wood is used by the Larkin Aircraft Co. in
Melbourne for stream-lining in aircraft con-
struction. It is a native of Peru, and ridi-
culously airy. The price, however, is not so
airy, and if an Australian timber of similar
specific gravity were commercially obtainable
our aircraft industry would benefit largely.
HIS PRIVATE PRESCRIPTION.
“Urr! . I feel awfud. What do you take for a headache, Smith?"
“Whisky the night before.”
It is stated that the Peruvians use balsa in
the construction of their blowpipes. How-
ever, that may be, a strip of balsa is about
the best razor strop the chin of man could
desire. If gympie has similar properties a
new Australian industry is foreshadowed.
❖ * * *
“Hop Scrub” : In Queensland not only do
trees carry marks upward as they grow T , but
they do so with startling rapidity. Outside
the pub in our township there stands a
young fig-tree. The local horse-breaker rode
a youngster in, and hitched it by a green-
hide halter to a ring bolted to the tree.
Whilst enveloping a pint he heard a frantic
squeal, and rushing out was just in time to
cut the halter as the prad’s hind feet swung
clear of the roadway. The younger the trees
the quicker the marks or objects shoot
upward. It isn’t safe to put a bud into a
seedling peach-tree without anchoring it
down with an anvil. Once, when grafting
an apple-tree, I was a bit short of waxed
calico to finish the job. The shed was only
100 yards away, but by the time I got
back the grafted limb was out of reach. Not
all Queensland trees! act like this. Some of
them just increase in girth without altering
the lateral position of any given point on
the trunk. But any ordinary tree can do
that.
“Bert the Carpenter”: Jokes played on
new apprentices include sending them out
for tripehammers, bottles of blast and tomb-
stone calipers. Where I served my time the
favorite joke was, “Run up to the saddler's
shop with this tin and get a pint of strap
oil.” The old saddler used to carefully put
down his wax-end and awl, say “It’s in this
tank —get it out yourself.” When the new
hand stooped to turn on the tap he was
seized by the neck and the “strap oil” was
applied to the scat of his pants, per medium
of a stiff strip of butt leather. After that-
experience it would be a long time before
you could persuade the new boy to ask for
anything by its nickname at the store, such
as. a pot of “maiden’s blush” (priming
paint), the “big hypocrite” (a heavy hammer
with two faces) or a pound of “sticky-
stink” (sheet-glue).
: i : Jjs :J:
“Tomb” : Many timber-getters find it hard
to estimate the height of standing trees.
I’m fairly good at it myself, but my friend
Missing is rarely more than half an inch
out at the most. I went to considerable
trouble to find out his method. It is in-
genious, but simple. He has a trained
’possum and a goanna. He fastens the
measuring-tape to a collar on the goanna;
he then sends the ’possum up the tree. The
goanna chases it, and when it reaches tire
first limb Missing puts on the brake—and
there you are.
(Continued on page 25.)
CORKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He fixed me with a rheumy eye what time
he sank a beer.
I knew him straight for what he was —that
Ancient Pioneer.
"But things have changed a lot,” he said,
and sadly shook thereat
The grizzled locks that showed beneath the
corks upon his hat.
“Where once we led our packhorses or
tramped to new domains,
They tear about in motors now and blinkin’
airyplanes.
In fifty years or so the horse will be a
memory dim.’’
The corks appeared to bob assent upon his
headgear’s rim.
The swagman’s day, he hazarded, would
mighty soon be o’er.
He stooped to where his own Matilda lay
upon the floor,
And set them oscillating to and fro, in
impish style,
Those cortical excrescences upon his battered
tile.
He’d trod, it seemed, the hardest tracks
beneath Australian skies,
Faced scorching heat and desert sand and
spinifex and flies.
The last would simply blind a chap—and
very often did—
Unless he had the nous to fix the danglers
on his lid.
“These darned new-fangled things,” he
growled, “give coves like me a jar.”
And pointed to the capsule in a bottle on
the bar,
And blasphemously queried where, with
dinguses like that,
A pioneer could find the corks to string
around his hat!
N.S.W.
sfc
T. THE R.


'ill lit i
mi
''nil
m
m
ÜBS!
s
m
izm
1
i
n
wm.
Wr x
5^
H ARNDT’S
S&ARSZLIJVG
<( As refreshing as a fountain.


PEAPES
clothe men AND their sons.
Temperature: a subject of much
discussion during the coming
months. Yet. PEAPES show
men how to dress lightly, coolly
and comfortably on the warm-
est days—without any sacrifice
of style or distinction.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
I,>sJ
GREYS-
SIZE nT WO
SILK CUT VIRGINIA
DRAP
CONDON
EYS
1® for CIGARETTES ®® for IL/&
1001 PURE
VIRGINIA
Without auy exaggeration “Greys” are as fine a
cigarette as you can buy—they arc made from 100
per cent, pure- and properly matured Virginia
tobacco that gives you a cool sweet-flavored smoke.
There are no fancy frills to “Greys,” they are just
good cigarettes that protect your palate and leave
no after taste. They will soothe and satisfy.
ASK FOR
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights’’
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
im
Weight
and
Quality
are factors in the
value of the stock. But purchasers’ business is to
Duy as cheaply as possible. Winchcombe Carson’s
business as salesmen is to see that their clients get
full value. And in that regard they are consistently
successful. Their energy, knowledge and determina-
tion in making sales are a complete safeguard for
owners’ interests.
CONSIGN CATTLE, SHEEP, LAMBS, TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Homebush Yards,
Sydney,
Enoggera Yards,
Brisbane.
“Up North”: Several mountain-scrub
tribes in N. Queensland eat frogs of a species
that makes its appearance just after the start
of the rainy season. The frogs live on the
summit of the big scrub-range running north
from Cairns. After the early rains have
saturated the carpet of leaves that cover
the tree-roots they emerge in swarms all
along the creek. They are little brown fel-
lows that love to squeeze themselves down
in the cracks of the jagged slate bars that
cross the waterways. A decent-sized crack
often harbors hundreds of tight-packed frogs.
To get them out Binghi strips a lawyer-vine
leaf, the end of which is armed with curved
spikes like the jag of a fishhook. He leaves
a few spikes on the end of a leaf-stem, pokes
it down the crack, and the frogs come hop-
ping out. Binghi fills a billycan with the
luxuries, lights a fire, places a handy stone
beside it, squats on his haunches, inserts
his paw in the billy, pulls out a frog by
the hind-leg, swings it gently in the air and
brings its head down on the stone. Then
he drops it in the ashes. He repeats the
THE NEW LUBRICANT.
BROTHER TRETOMMY (at the weekly prayer meeting ): “hoard, we’m all gone rusty
and do want ilin [oiling]. Pour out Thine ile ’pon us—the He of Patmos.”
performance until the first frog is roasted.
He eats that, and then carries on alternately
killing and eating.
$ Hs sfc
“Senex” : Promptitude’s the thing with a
snakebite. My youngest boy, aged six, was
bitten on both feet in the house yard when
he stepped on a death-adder the other day.
I heard him squeal, and ran out in time
to find him settling the deadly thing with
the wood axe, having shoved his investigating
baby sister out of the way. I grabbed him,
yelled to our eldest to rush and ’phone the
ambulance; got my razor and slashed deep
round the bites and rubbed in permang.
potass, crystals, putting three ligatures
immediately afterwards on each leg. The
ambulance car got the patient to the doctor
in 17 minutes from the time of the bite.
The victim knew his danger, and asked his
mother: “Am I going to die now?” quite
calmly. She reassured him, and he let me cut
his feet without having to be held, or making
any song about it, though it must have been
darned painful. He was out of danger in an
hour or two. A real little Australian man-
child a father can be proud of owning.
* * * *
“Yarri”: It isn’t every horse that will
do its best under punishment. I had one
that was a Carbine in grass-fed picnic races,
and would stick it hard when urged with
reins and spurless heels, but if touched with
a spur he would lay his ears back and kick.
If hit with a whip he flinched and went
slower. There was another hero of bush
meetings that wouldn’t extend himself until
his rider leaned forward and yelled. One
good yell was enough. He had belonged to
a stockman who, when returning from town
at night, half-screwed, used to race over the
good parts of the road, especially the last
mile or so, and make the bush ring with his
yells. The outburst to that moke meant
“Hurry up and get to grass.”
$ H* H*
“Eureka”: In Cassell’s Cyclopedia it is
stated that 4,000,000 of the fine threads of
a common garden spider’s web twisted
together would not exceed the thickness of a
hair from the human head. What have
those abo. councillors who have used spiders’
webs for bootlaces and bowyang ties to say
about this?
❖ * *
“Berhantu” : When “M.G.S.” (B. 9/10/’29)
questions the man-killing properties of the
Dyak and Malay arrow poisons used with
the blowpipe, he is influenced, perhaps, by
the fact that in these peaceful days they are
little used. Doubts thrown on their toxicity
arise from the fact that they are usually
examined dry after sea-carriage, and are only
deadly when the poison is fresh. In Malaya
the active principle is from the upas- or ipoh-
tree, dries purple, is called antiarin, and has
an action similar to that of digitalis. In
Borneo and Malacca (except on the coast
where darts are used only for bird shooting)
it is derived from various trees of the Strych-
nos family, and called alter lampong; it
contains both strychnine and brucine and
produces acute respiratory failure and
death. Shot into the neck it is just as effec-
tive on men as “M.G.S.” has seen it on birds
and animals.
THE OPTIMIST.
NEW ARRIVAL DOWN BELOW (who had made things pretty warm) : “By the way, old
dear, I didn’t bring my furs. I hope I don’t get a chill.”
“Pick”: Speedsters among dogs get no
place in a well-organised rabbiter’s pack. Run-
ning-hounds are useless there. They quickly
sicken of chasing things that dart into the
earth, and decline further exertions. The
dogs employed are usually terriers and non-
descript mongs. When hunting, the scenters
snuffle ahead to locate the hidden bunnies,
while the rest trail unconcernedly in the
rabbiter’s rear. When a rabbit is discovered,
the ringers at once start circling the spot,
the spreaders rush off to different points
of the landscape and the borrowers race to
the nearest warrens. Sometimes the ringers
pick up the quarry before it jumps from the
squat, and the march is thereupon resumed.
If, however, the rabbit makes a break, the
spreaders head him off. And should he
evade the mob snapping at him, he still has
to dodge the fellows that have stationed
themselves at the burrows.
* * * *
“Molokihi” (Papua) : He seemed a philo-
sophical old chap as he lounged against the
verandah-post chewing his eternal betel wad.
but far too out of date for the girl in the
red hibiscus. When I suggested that it would
be far better for the much younger co-re.
to retain his capture, the old man agreed
readily, stipulating only that the marriage
payment should be refunded in full. As the
nuptials had occurred only a month previ-
ously, the financial arrangements were fresh
in the old chap’s mind, so refreshing him-
self with a spatula of lime he slowly de-
tailed the following list: Ten sticks trade
tobacco, one mouth-organ, one piece calico,
one lead pencil, one pig, two bunches betel-nut
and one lump red oxide (for decorative pur-
poses). Order made for payment in full
within a month and the trio passed con-
tentedly on its way, the co-re. helping
himself thoughtfully from the old man’s lime-
pot.
i|j ;]c
“John E.”: He was a red-bellied black
snake: she was a white-eared honeyeater.
Her nest was close by, and he had found
it. With a swoop she was upon him,
her beak snapping viciously. He darted his
head back; she fluttered up, then swooped
again. This time the snake retreated. Turn-
ing in a flash, he glided through the grass
to the base of a wattle sapling, coiling
himself up while the bird continued to dance
excitedly among the branches. She was
joined by her mate, and the pair made a
fearful commotion. Again the hen swooped
upon the snake. This time he withdrew
his head just out of reach, staring at her
stonily. The affair became a duel. Each
time she swooped he withdrew his head either
backwards or sideways. The bird was win-
ning, so it seemed. Emboldened by liis con-
sort’s success, the cockbird joined her in the
attack. Now they swooped and dived reck-
lessly upon the reptile, fluttering a few
inches above him. I fancied that one of
them struck his head once, from the way he
flinched. Another one like that, and he
would be losing an eye. The cockbird had
just fluttered back to a branch; the hen
dipped again. To me it appeared that the
snake simply opened his mouth wide, and
that she flew right into it. She gave one
pitiful squeak as the black devil slid into
a tussock near by.
:k * ❖ ❖
“Barangkali” : The rites that accompany a
Malay birth are varied and incongruous. The
presiding authority is the Milan or mid-
wife, but the wizard also plays his part,
which is to select an auspicious place for
the birth and surround it with bees’ nests,
dolls, thorny bushes, bitter herbs and nets.
The wizard selects the spot by throwing a
chopper in the air and marking the place
where it descends. The thorns and spikes
are to entangle the trailing entrails of
demons ; the dolls are used in the hope that
the demons may mistake them for the baby ;
bitter herbs are reckoned unpalatable to
the evil visitants; and the bees’ nests and
nets are expected to puzzle the fiends because
of their complexity. The midwife takes the
child the moment it is born, washes it and
bangs a heavy brass tray near its ears, or
lets off Chinese crackers in its neighbor-
hood. During the first day of its life the
baby is spat on morning and evening; its
resting place is smeared with yellow rice
and with an evil-smelling substance the mis-
sion of which is to repel any evil spirit that
might venture near, and the babe’s washtub
contains potent ingredients, such as man-
ganese-dust and talismans, intended to make
the water purifying both to body and soul.
On the third day of life the infant is made
to eat bananas beaten into pulp, flavored
with salt, and the next day its head is
shaved. The child is now considered well
on the way to maturity, and if its parents
are unusually proud of it a sacrifice-may be
offered up on its behalf and a feast given
in its honor.
* * * *
“A.E.H.”: Mountain trout of more than
average size were discovered in the dis-
tributing pipes leading to the Pelton wheels
in the Mt. Lyell H'ydro Plant (Tas.). The
head of water on this power plant is 1050 ft.,
equal to about 4701 b. pressure per sq. in.,
and it’s a wonder how these surface fish
stood it.
* * * *
“Cuchulain” : A Barcaldine (Q.) squatter,
Mervyn Blunt, investigated an eagle-hawk
nest on his property after firing the tree
to bring it down. He found the leg bones of
28 lambs and a joey, not to mention remains
of lizards and a ’possum. The eagle which
had consumed these offerings measured
sft. Gin. across the wings. That seems to
settle the question as to whether eagles
take lambs.
CHRISTMAS BUSH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Do you remember, long ago, how eagerly vve
two would seek
The Christmas bush that used to grow along
the banks of Clinton's Creek?
Those houses do you still recall, each with
its white-washed fireplace wide,
Cheap colored prints upon the wall, or photos
of some ’groom and bride?
There once again I seem to see, from beam
and rafter gaily hung.
The blossoms of the Christmas-tree we
gathered when we two were young.
I wonder if the stream still flows that
trickled from the mountain peak,
And if the Christmas bush still grows along
the banks of Clinton’s Creek.
A-questing for the treasured bush, with
blooms akin to creamy spray,
By ferny bank and gully lush, as girl and
boy we used to stray;
Though you and I have seen the light of
many waning Christmas moons
Since once those blossoms, pink and white,
were hung for us in gay festoons,
I’d like to think that busli-folk still —e’en
though the place be changed and bleak —
Pluck, for the season of goodwill, the
Christmas bush at Clinton’s Creek.
VICTORIA.
THOS. V. TIERNEY.


Our Seryice Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. .
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bullb:tin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Sheep-station overseer, single, N.S.W., wants posi-
tion, sound knowledge stock and all station work,
Q’land and N.S.W. Good bookkeeper.—3oBl.
Reliable man (40), wants job, general station-
hand, experienced, with pack dogs. Refs.—3lls.
Youth (18), Sydney, wants job as motor or lorry
driver. Go anywhere.—3o9o.
Lady (30) returning England March or April
would look after children or elderly lady in return
for fare.; —3109.
Sydney typist and stenographer seeks typing at
home or will go out by hour or day. MS. called for
and delivered. Country clients’ work promptly
attended to. Moderate charges.—3ll9.
Belfast farmer and wife arriving Vic. November
want employment on station, or share dairying.
Experienced market gardener.—3l32.
Proprietress of mountain guest-house disposing of
her property wants position as manageress of board-
ing-house or flats in Sydney.—3l27.
Young man (22) wants work Islands or out-
back station, clerical or outdoor. Can ride. —3161.
Experienced houseman or male nurse, Sydney,
requires employment. Anywhere. Refs.—3lsB.
Qualified person, Brisbane, to do flat drawings
of Great Pyramid construction. —3169.
Youth (19) wants job on dairy farm, Q’land
preferred.—3l4l.
Youth (18), Sydney, sitting for leaving-certificate
and cadet-draftsman exams., wants job pending
results. Refs. —3150.
Station bookkeeper (45), N.S.W., single, requires
position. Go anywhere. Abstainer. Four years last
position.—3os7.
Married man, 30 years’ dairy and pig experience,
seeks position in N.S.W. —3046.
Lad (Vic.) wants job as jackeroo anywhere in
Australia. Refs, and Intermediate certificate. —3041.
Gentlewoman, efficient, dependable, seeks position
companion help station, or refined country home
where other help is kept.—3osl.
Chauffeur (32), Q’land, steady, reliable, willing
worker, eight years’ workshop experience, wants job
on station. Refs. —3035.
To hear from persons who have organised treasure
hunts, willing to supply details as to how to con-
duct 0ne.—3019.
To buy Keats’s Poems (1818), Burns’s (Kilmar-
nock edition, 1785), gold-painted prayer-books and
early Shakspeares.—3oB2.
To buy book containing poem by A. L. Gordon On
the death of Burke, the explorer, beginning “With
the pistol clenched in his failing hand.” —3031.
To buy Vol. 1, Australian Museum Magazine,
bound or unbound; also “Coonardoo,” by Katharine
Susannah Prichard. ; —3087.
To buy “The Julian Ashton Book.”—3160.
To buy novels and verse by Australian writers;
early Australian literary magazines; full sets pre-
ferred.—3l34.
To buy book of verse by R. 11. Long, containing
“The Land Sale” and “Rail and Road,” or copy of
these verses. Also “Heart of Spring” and “Modern
Australian Literature.” —3098.
Business man (30) invites correspondence from
readers interested in prose- or story-writing, clay-
modelling, golf, swimming or advertising.—3l3s.
Whereabouts of John Edward Saunders, miner, at
Gympie (Q.) in the ’eighties, or next of kin. —3085.
Information Sought.
(1) What is the cost of obtaining an air-
pilot’s certificate? (2) How long does it
take to obtain? (3) Is it easy to get employ-
ment as pilot soon after obtaining certificate?
(4) Salary? (5) Where can I get further
information ? —2BBB.
(1J “A” license (Aero Club of N.S.W. )
about £6O to £7O. Depends on aptitude of
pupil. (2) Six to eight weeks. (8) Neces-
sary to secure a commercial license “B” be-
fore one can be employed commercially. For
this, one has to do 80 hours solo flying, cross-
country flying, and pass technical examina-
tions. (4) About £lO 10s. to £l2 10s. to
commence. (5) Aero Club of N.S.W., 16
Barrack-street, Sydney.
(1) How can one join the Aero Club of
N.S.W.? (2) How long does it take to
obtain a pilot’s license? (3) Cost? (4) Is
there any medical exam, to pass? (5) Would
the necessity for wearing spectacles be o bar
to obtaining a license? (6) Can a resident
of the Solomon Islands become a member of
the club? —2570.
(1) By nomination and paying entrance
fee. Club will supply full particulars on
application. (2) Six to eight weeks. (3)
Average total cost of “A” license, £6O to
£7O, according to ability of pupil. (4) Yes.
(5) Not necessarily. (6) Yes.
(1) What is the quickest way of getting
from Sydney to Perth , using available air
lines? (2) Cost? (3) Is it advisable to
book in advance? (4) Where can I get in-
formation as to fares, time-tables, etc.? —
2955
(1) Leave Sydney by express on F'riday
evening, arriving Melbourne following day.
The same afternoon leave by the Adelaide
express, arriving at Adelaide at 9 a.m. Sun-
day. Leave Par afield aerodrome 10 a.m. for
Perth, arriving at the latter city about 1.30
p.m. on Monday. (2) Fare for the air
journey is £lB. (3) Yes, through Dalgety
and Co., agents for W.A. Airways, Ltd., in
Sydney. (4) From W.A. Airways, Ltd.,
35 A.M.P. Buildings, Perth, and the N.S.W.
and Yic. railway time-tables.
(1) What would be the approximate cost
of a ship’s lifeboat, 16 ft. I in. long, 5 ft. 10 in.
beam, 2 ft. 4 in. deep, complete with two sets
of oars, Muntz metal water-tanks and rud-
der? (2) How long would it take to build?
(3) Would such a boat be suitable for open-
sea work? —3094.
(1) £7O. (2) About 10 days. (3) Yes,
used with discretion.
(1) In cricket what is meant by a good
length ball? (2) As a fast-bowler’s chief
aim is pace, would not the hard,, fast ana
true wicket suit his'bowling? (3) On the
fiery-bowlcr’s wicket would the ball come off
the ' pitch as fast as on the true, dry, fast
wicket? (4) Would the ball conic off fast
from the soaked wicket? (5) What arc the
convenient height balls for back play.
2991.
(1) A ball whose pitch puts the bats-
man in a quandary whether to play back
or forward. With the ball breaking, the
whole width of the pitch might be included.
(9) Yes. (3) Yes; faster and nastier, too.
(4) No. (5) Up to bail-height, unless
shorthops on the leg.
I have sown a number of wattle-seeds in
tins and boxes. They have been up a couple
of weeks, but they do not appear to >e
growing as quickly as they ought. Were they
planted at the wrong time, or should they
have been sown in their permanent positions .
—2960.
The seed has been sown at the correct
time. The seedlings are always slow m
growth, but they will jump away with the
November heat. They should be planted out
when 6in. high.
How can the selectivity of a three-valve
Rcinartz receiver operating in Pyrmont
( Sydney ) be increased? I am unable to
separate 2 UW from 2KY. —3153.
By increasing the distance between tue
aerial and grid coils slightly; by placing a
0.00025MF fixed condenser in the aerial cir-
cuit between the aerial terminal and the top
of the aerial coil, or by reducing the number
of turns on the aerial coil by about one-
quarter to one-third. Endeavor to eliminate
the interfering station by the first method
and, if unsuccessful, try again with the
addition of second, then third methods.
A number of broadcast receivers now in-
corporate milliammeters in their circuits.
What advantage is gained by this addition,
and what type of instrument would be
suitable ? —3lBO.
In the case of battery-sets, to give an
idea as to the conditions of the bias and
high-tension batteries and to increase the
life of the high-tension battery by keeping
the plate current down to a reasonable
limit. It improves an AC set by safeguard-
ing against overloading the last audio valve,
thereby prolonging its life, and indicating
when distortion is taking place in the amp-
lifier. A Jewell or Ferrenti milliammeter
would be suitable, reading 0/15 M/a D.C.
for small battery-operated sets; 0/30 M/a
D.C. for A.C.-operated sets employing
power valves; and 0/50 M/a D.C. when
using a push-pull power stage.
What is the water span of (1) Sydney
Harbor bridge and (2) George’s River bridge
( N.S.W.) f.—3027.
(1) 1520 feet. (2) 1639 feet.
(1) Is Rev. Win. Ridley’s “Kamilaroi
and Other Australian Languages” regarded
as reliable by authorities? (2) Biographical
details of the author ? —3054.
(1) Yes. (2) Born at Hartford End in
Sussex, 1819; educated at King’s College,
London. Studied law for a while but be-
came interested in missionary work. In 1849
he met Dr. Lang in London and accompanied
him to N.S.W., where Ridley became a
Fresbyterian minister. He travelled among
the aboriginal tribes of the region between
Liverpool Plains (N.S.W.) and the Darling
Downs and made a close study of their
languages. He was at one time editor of
the Evening News. He died in 1878. .
Under what conditions are permits to
prospect for petroleum in Queensland
granted ? —3137.
A permit may be obtained to prospect for
petroleum over an area not exceeding 10,000
acres for two years. Not more than two
such permits may be held by any one person.
A preferential right to a permit may be
obtained for a period of 30 days by erecting
a post or monument on the land and post-
ing a notice in accordance with the petro-
leum Act of 1923. A rental of Id. per acre
per annum is payable for the land included
in the permit. Within a year tlie holder
of the permit must erect an adequate drilling
outfit on the land and commence drilling,
and within two years drill at least 2000 ft.
(1) I have some pre-Federation Queens-
land stamps which have been used as duty
stamps. Would that affect their value, if
any. (2) Gould you suggest any firm which
might purchase them? (3) Have old duty
stamps any value ? —3068.
(1) They would have very little value.
(2) A. ISassett Hull, Bull’s Chambers,
Martin-place, Sydney. (3) Except in a very
few cases, no.
A sells his property through B, an
estate-agent, who collects a deposit from C,
the purchaser of the property. A hands the
deeds to his solicitor to complete the trans-
fer. C pays the solicitor the balance of
the purchase money, and the solicitor com-
pletes the transfer. The solicitor then finds
that B is unable to pay the deposit he has
received from, C. Is the solicitor liable to
make good the loss for his negligence in
completing the transfer before he had re-
ceived the full amount of the purchase
money? If so. what action is necessary for
A to recover his money? —3ll6.
The agent holds the deposit as a stake-
holder and the solicitor on receiving an
order from the purchaser, or his solicitor,
directing the agent to hand over the money,
and duly presenting it, his duty. If
the money is not forthcoming the vendor
has a right of action against the agent.
What is the lifting power exerted at sea
level by 1000 cubic feet of hydrogen and
helium gases, respectively ? —2865.
Hydrogen, 75.11 b.; helium, 69.51 b.
(1) When did Mussolini assume dictator-
ship of Italy? (2) What was the date of
the agreement between the Pope and the
Italian Government regarding the Papal
status? (3) Who were the signatories? —
3072.
(1) He was appointed Prime Minister on
October 28, 1922. (2) February 11. 1929.
(3) Cardinal Gasparri, on behalf of the
Pope, and Mussolini, on behalf of the King
of Italy.
(1) What diet is recommended in a case
of high blood-pressure? (2) When giddiness
and throbbing conies on, should exercise be
discontinued until it is relieved? (3) Any
other advice that may be helpful? —3o6l.
(1) The most important thing is not to
over-eat. Some physicians prohibit soup,
red meats and eggs, thongh the last may be
taken very sparingly. (2) Yes. (3) Keep the
bowels open, and have a hot bath every day.
Place yourself under medical control. Treat-
ment entirely depends on the condition of
the patient from time to time.
(1) Is there any way to increase the size
of one’s bones? (2) How can I make a flat
chest protrude a little? (3) Gan calcium
phosphate be taken internally? —3os9.
(1) Nothing increases the size of bones
except interference with certain glands. This
is bad. (2) Take plenty of exercise, and
attend physical culture classes if possible.
(3) Calcium phosphate has been given for
rickets (when bones are affected), but its
benefits are doubtful.
(1) Does Melbourne Uni. run a course in
architecture? (2) What qualifications arc
required of a student? (3) Would a corres-
pondence-school course suffice? (4) Is the
I.(Ltd. a trustworthy organisation? —-3133.
(1) Yes. (2) Intermediate and Leaving
Certificate., a pass in algebra, geometry or
trigonometry being compulsory in latter. (3)
Yes; but the candidate must sit for the same
examination as a uni. graduate before being
admitted to institute, registration with which
is obligatory. (4) Yes.
Where can I procure sarsaparilla root
(Smilax ornata) ? —3077.
It is not used in medicine, and cannot, be
obtained commercially. It grows round
Sydney.
(1) What are the steamer fares from Bris-
bane to Darwin? (2) Brisbane to Port
Moresby? (3) Where to apply for a planta-
tion job in the Islands?- —3044.
(1) First: single £25, return £45; second:
single £l6 155., return £3O. (2) £lB
(single tickets only are issued). (3) Try
New Guinea Trade Agency, 114 a Pitt-street,
Sydney.
I am a jass pianist, What chance would
I have of securing a position in Sydney at
the end of 1930 f—3039.
The supply of pianists of the highest quali-
fications is far in excess of the demand at
present. Can’t prophesy about the future.
(1) Method of softening tanned skins?
(2) Recipe for tanning kangaroo skins?
—2815.
(1) Soak the skin in cold water until
thoroughly softened, and rub lightly on the
flesh side with any vegetable oil. Dry
away from sun and wind. (2) Soak
the skins in cold water for 24 hours, and
carefully scrape backs to remove any flesh
and fat:' which may adhere. Make up a tan-
ning liquor of lib. finely chopped wattle-bark
to 1 gallon of water, and immerse the skins.
Allow to stand for about three days, then
wash the skinsi and again scrape. Make up
a second liquor twice the strength of the
first, and immerse the skins for another three
days. The best method of determining
whether the skin is tanned is to make a
slit in it, so that it can be seen if the
liquor has penetrated. Wash, and rub with
any vegetable oil. Dry away from sun and
wind.
Which are the self-supporting countries,
and which could close their doors on the rest
of the world and live on their own products?
Could Australia or France do that? —3079.
With the possible exception of Great
Britain, which is dependent for food on the
outside world, practically all civilised coun-
tries could live on their own resources if
compelled to do so, though in many cases
there would be a lowering of the standard of
comfort. Any country with adequate natu-
ral resources in the matter of agricultural
land, iron, lime and coal or equivalent power
sources, lias the prime essentials of civilisa-
tion. France is dependent to some degree
on imported coal, and has not to any great
extent exploited other power sources. Aus-
tralia is rich in all the essentials enumer-
ated, and also produces copper, zinc, tin and
lead.
(1) Can I garnishee the wages of a man
who is employed at a shearing-shed? (2)
Can I summons a tenant for arrears of rent?
(3) What is the procedure to get a garni-
shee order ? —3OBO.
(i) Wages or salary of £2 per week or
under cannot be attached, but beyond that
you may garnishee. (2) Yes, at the nearest
Small Debts Court in the district. (3) You
apply to the Court in which you got judg-
ment for an order to examine the judgment
debtor as to the debts due to him, and on
this a garnishee order may issue.
Is more than a bare majority needed to
alter the Constitution of the Commonwealth?
2909.
If tliere is an absolute majority in both
Federal Houses the proposed amendment
goes to the electors; if only one House has
an absolute majority, to get the proposed
amendment to the electors it must be a
second time passed by that House. To
secure its adoption it must have the appro-
val of a majority Of the electors in a majo-
rity of the States and also a majority of
all the electors voting.
Is there any cool locality in N. 8/. Wales
where one could get some alluvial gold?
—3024.
With luck a prospector might earn a few
pounds at Tumbarumba or Kiandra, both
cool localities, but well fossicked.
Recipe for dressing to waterproof cm old
tarpaulin? —2949.
Use boiled oil and patent driers, applied
with a brush.
Information Supplied.
2922. —A simple way to cure a dog of
eating eggs is to take' two eggs and blow
one. Fill the blown egg with mixed
mustard. Give the dog the good egg to eat.
then open his mouth, put the dosed egg
in, and open and shut his mouth on it
to make sure he gets it well into his throat.
—A.E.H.
Brief Answers.
A.A.F.: Ten acres, one rood, four perches,
four yards T.E.M.: “How to Write Serial
Fiction,” by Michael Joseph and Martin Cumber-
land A.8.J.: (1) and (2) Not if you took
all reasonable care. (3) You should impound it.
(4) The owner. (5) That you must determine for
yourself... .J. 8.: Not a serious obstacle; if any
objection should arise identification could be estab-
lished by sworn declaration.... Kin: On your own
statement at the time of the alleged offence you
were riding a horse that was not your own. What
has happened since does not affect the position at the
date of the alleged offence. Better let sleeping dogs
lie N.D.: (1), (2) and (3) Write to the Secretary,
Public Service Board, Perpetual Trustee Building,
Hunter-street, Sydney. (4), (5) and (6) Will
answer Jater A. J.: Write to Burns, Philp & Co.,
Ltd., Bridge-street; W. R. Carpenter and Co., Ltd.,
19 O’Connell-street; .G. N. Lamb and Co., 16-20
Bridge-street; or George Morgan and Co., Ltd., 209
Castlereagh-street—all of Sydney... .J. A. L.: The
Clydesdale stallion Gordon Buchlyvie did not win
a championship at the Sydney R.A.S J.M.P.:
Crawford and Fleming, 507 George-street, and A.
L. Turner, 476 Pitt-street—both of Sydney....
F.J.S.: Write to the Under-Secretary, Home and
Territories Department, Canberra... .E.A.: There arc
no vacancies in the Public Service of Papua, New
Guinea, Norfolk Island and Narau. There are no
sugar plantations in any of the territories mentioned.
In New Guinea it is estimated that to bring a
cocoanut plantation into bearing costs £2O to £25
per acre. Ask the Colonial Secretary, Suva, re
present state of labor market in Fiji; Burns Phiip
might help re other islands. . . .A.H.M.: (1)
and (3) If the account is that of two
joint owners, then on the death of either the
ownership of the whole passes to the survivor, and
duty on it would be payable at death out of his
estate. (2) The account will not be tied up if
the joint ownership is unquestioned; the survivor
could draw at will. (4) It would be advisable for
the survivor to make a will. .. . 14.C.D.: Correct pro-
nunciation is Himm-ah-laya ; Pah-poo-ah ; Rah-bahl;
Tahn-gahn-yeeka ; Ylah-dyee-vahs-tawk. .. .C.A.G.:
Prepare a wire framework of the shape of the curved
horn you want to fashion, and wind over it strips
of paper not more than lin. wide, coated with dex-
trine or hot thin glue. Several thicknesses of paper
will be required. Withdraw the mould when the
winding is finished and the adhesive is dry, and
trim ends with a sharp knife. This method, of
course, is not applicable to spirally curved horns.
P.M.: Submit full particulars to Taxation Dept.,
Perth. . . .8.J.: Write to Singer Sewing Machine Co.,
254 Queen-street, Brisbane... .G.W.F.: There are a
number of small brooders on the market which can
be purchased at such small cost that it is not
worth the trouble making 0ne....E.8.: Write to
Mr. Darge, Secretary, Victorian Utility Pigeon
Breeders’ Assoc., 175 Collins-street, Melbourne; L.
Gaze, Middle Brighton; or J. C. Hunt, Mitcham
all Vic D.A.C. : British Australian Tobacco Co.
Pty., Ltd., Todman-avenue, Kensington, Sydney; and
Craig and Aitken, 654 George-street, Sydney
J.M.: The insect didn’t arrive. If you have another
specimen send it to the Chief Entomologist, Dept,
of Agriculture, Sydney, and he will report....
W.A.S.: Force means pressure, and the pressure at
the outlet end of each pipe will be identical. The
output will vary because in the larger pipe there
will be less loss due to friction. To determine the
output, we must know the length of each pipe
M.C.F.: Future is obscure; but seems to us good
enough to hold if it’s merely a matter of swapping
one tin risk for another. .. .loxey: (1) It is a very
fair speculation; but it carries substantial risks.
(2) Don’t know. (3) and (4) One of the firm’s
salesmen, apparently J.L.D.: Communicate with
the Industrial Registrar, Dept, of Labor and Indus-
try, 18 Elizabeth-street, Sydney, stating the industry
in which you are engaged. .. .S.W.H.: Any Sydney
glass merchant would carry out the work. Ruling
prices: Resilvering, 2s. to 3s. per sq. foot ; bevelling
owner’s glass, lOd. to Is. 6d. per running f00t....
P.L.E.: Col. Lord William Percy is the second son
of the 7th Duke of Northumberland. The present
Duke of Northumberland (the eighth) is Alan lan
Percy. Lord W.’s address is Catfield Hall, Great
Yarmouth, Norfolk H.R.C.: Don’t waste time and
money on phrenologists. ..-C.D.: (1) (2) and (3)
No. (4) Yes G.H.; Binnowee, a green place;
Deyribong, green trees; Thuddungra, water rushes
down J.L.S.: The slippery white substance may
be shale, and the brittle black substance oil
shale. Send samples to the Department of
Mines, Brisbane G.M.: Three Q’land Forestry
cadetships are advertised each year. Those appointed
must have matriculated in science, agricultural
science or engineering. Write the Provisional
Forestry Board, Executive Buildings, George-street,
Brisbane.... Ashbee: Write Commissioner, Mounted
Police, Ottawa... .A.D.D.: Write General Register
' Office, Somerset House, London, giving full par-
ticulars. A birth certificate costs ss. Id., which
can be sent by international money-order obtainable
at any post office T.G.: As laid down in section
218 of the QTand Local Authorities Act, the value of
land held under perpetual lease must be estimated at
the fair average value of unimproved land of the
same quality held in fee-simple in the same neighbor-
hood. You can appeal to the Valuation Court
W.E.C.: A bushel of lime weighs from 701 b. to 751 b.
E.D.: Don’t know any advertising agencies
that buy showcard illustrations from freelances.
Apply to the advertising agents. ..-D.W.J.: If
the skin is not tanned or cured you should have no
trouble in realising on it. Take it to any of the
wool-selling brokers’ stores in Pyrmont, Sydney,
where it will be received and submitted at auction.
.... H.J.M.: Apply to any of the following: Cine-
sound Dept., Western Electric Co. (Aust.), Ltd.,
250 Pitt-street; Hoyt’s, Ltd., 523 George-street; or
L. C. Cathro, 221 Elizabeth-street —all Sydney
T.W.S.: The Patent Office, Melbourne, will supply
(on application) necessary forms. Write Griffith
and Hassall, 67 Castlereagh-street, Sydney H.E.:
Application has to be made in each country in which
a patent is desired. Cost for, say, 12 countries from
£350 upwards, depending on nature of invention.
The Commonwealth Patent Office does not concern
itself with anything other than applications for,
and the granting of, Commonwealth patents. Write
to Griffith and Hassall, 67 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
.R.S.: Under the Post and Telegraph (Common-
wealth) Act (1901), any person stealing a letter
or retaining or secreting it is liable to a penalty of
£5O J.L.: Write to W.A. Airways, Ltd., 35
AM P. Buildings, Perth, W.A. ; QTand and N.T.
Aerial Services, Ltd., Box 146 Longreach, QTand;
or Larkin Aircraft Supply Co., Ltd., Dudley-street,
Melbourne.... E.H.: About £5... .T.R.M.N.: (1)
Yes. (2) No. (3) It would depend entirely on the
class of firm for which you are working. (4)
Write Secretary, Clerks’ Union, 160 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney (Many others mailed.)


X
m
m
m
m
m
I c=> )
Lra
a
You will be very pleased
with the pink freshness of
the meat and its delicate ap-
petising aroma. You will enjoy its
delicious flavour. Noting the clear
firm jelly, and the pure fine clean-
looking texture of the meat due to the
use of only the most carefully selected
choicest raw materials, you will say,
“ Foggitt Jones certainly do not sacri-
fice quality for cheapness.” And,
wanting full measure in food-value
and money-value, you will always
order confidently from your grocer or
smallgoodsman, “ REX-PYE, please ! ”
REX-PYE
Jei
■ISSaHSi
IN JELLY
In lib & \lb hygienic cans.
IT JONES PTV. LTD
(Division of United Provisions Lhd.)
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon.


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney!
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Offices 23/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
Sydney Grammar School.
Day and Boarding School for Boys.
Applications for prospectus or interview should be made,
by letter to the Head Master, as early as possible. New term
begins 4th February, 1930.
Special features are the Preparatory Form, for boys of
9 to 12, in its own self-contained building and grounds, and
the New School House, with excellent accommodation for
60 boarders
Early application is desirable.
Headmaster: H. S. DETTMANN, M.A., B.C.L.
Chairman of Trustees: SIR MUNGO MacCALLUM, K.C.M.G., M.A.,
LL.D., D.Litt.
THE
Farmers 8 Settlers
Co-operative Insurance
Co. of Australia, Ltd.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL,
£250,000
Fire, Accident, Marine, Motor-car,
Workers’ Compensation, Growing
Crops, Stacks, Wool, Fencing.
SPECIALISING IN INSURANCE
FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND
ACTIVE AGENTS REQUIRED
WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
N.S.W. Office:
Wingelo House, Angel Place, Sydney
F. D. POWELL, Manager.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
C[?]PARK&CASTLEREAGH
[?]TS SYDNEY
MORE PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
In order to encourage farmers to pass
on to others the fruits of their observa-
tion and experience, “The Bulletin” will
give three prizes for the most helpful
contributions during the six months to
Dec. 31 next.
Points will be awarded for every con-
tribution submitted, if thought worthy and
whether printed or not, and two prizes—
the first of £25 and the second of £lo—
be given to the winners of most
points.
A special prize of £5 will be given for
the best individual contribution.
Only contributions that are of practical
value to men on the land are asked for;
literary merit is not taken into account, so
long as the meaning is expressed plainly.
The prizes are in addition to the ordi-
nary payments m.ade for all “Bulletin”
contributions.
*
WHEAT TESTS IN THE MALLEE.
“Gleiifield” : A few observations from the
Central Mallee to supplement “Curlew”
(B. 2/10/’29) on “Too Many Varieties.”
Certain varieties of wheat suit certain
farms. Though not recommended for this
district, I know one farmer who consistently
grows better crops of Federation than any-
thing else. Again, I know several sound
fanners who cannot grow good crops of
Currawa, though that variety is a favorite
in the Mallee. One cocky, after discarding
it twice, last season decided to give it a
final trial. Sown between Free Gallipoli
and Ranee in a 150-acre paddock of fallow,
the Free Gallipoli yielded 18 bushels, Cur-
rawa barely 9 and Ranee 13.
While it is advisable to get down to no
more than three varieties —one early, one
mid-season and one late —we should try all
those recommended for the district, and dis-
cover by close observation and yield the
three most suitable to one’s particular class
of country.
“Curlew” enumerates the varieties recom-
mended for the Central Mallee by the Agri-
cultural Department; but he classifies Ranee
and Sepoy as mid-season wheats, whereas
Ranee is early maturing and Sepoy late.
I have grown all the varieties mentioned
and culled to suit my' own block. I now
sow Ranee, Free Gallipoli and Sepoy. Dur-
ing the culling process I kept a record o£
each variety.
The early wheats tried were Rajah, Mac’s
White and Ranee.
Rajah is a prolific yielder if you can get
it when out in head. But the crop looks
as if the sower had mixed two or three
varieties. The first season I lost, through
shaking, what would have paid the interest
on the overdraft; a further trial the next
season and I lost the price of a new har-
vester through shaking in a wind-storm.
But I understand the department has since
improved the type, and that it now holds
its grain better.
Mac's White is a poor stooler, but grows
tall and is a good hay wheat; it is apt to
shed grain when passing from the green to
the ripening stage. After stripping, the
stubble is very palatable to stock, which will
clean it up in preference to other available
wheat stubbles. Many old coclues always
sow a few acres of this variety, as a cut
of hay can be got from it when the oat crops
fail in the dry years.
Ranee is a good stooler for an early
variety, a prolific yielder and holds its grain
well; it seems to be a very hardy plant and
a good disease-resister. It is a good wheat
to sow on the Mallee sandhills. Though this
variety is early maturing and would be
sown last, by sowing it first I have found
it to yield from three to five bushels per
acre more than a late-sown crop of the same
wheat, and it was ready for the harvester
while the other crop was ripening. This
has been a consistent experience over three
seasons.
The mid-season wheats tried were Currawa
and Free Gallipoli.
Curraioa is a popular Mallee wheat; it is
a good stooler and vigorous grower in the
early stages, and a good wheat to sow on
ground not too clean, as it beats and chokes
out the rubbish. It yields particularly well
on the pine-ridges, but has to be very care-
fully pickled; it seems to be more susceptible
to smut than most wheats. Currawa should
be harvested as soon as it is ready, as with
wet weather the straw is inclined to rot ai
the root, which makes it difficult to strip
with a harvester.
Free Gallipoli is a short-strawed, prolific
yielder, holds its grain and strips well. It
seems to be the wheat we have been looking
for in the Malice; it is a great battler dur-
ing the dry spells and yields better than it
looks.
Late wheats tested were Yandilla King
and Sepoy.
Yandilla King is a good stooling wheat,
though a slow grower in the early stages;
it yields well in normal years and is tough to
strip. It is not such a good drought-resister
as Sepoy, so in the district where the spring
weather is more intensely dry than wet.
Sepoy is to be preferred.
Sepoy wants to be sown as early as pos-
sible. It is a great stooler and a prolific
yielder, with a large clubby head. We don’t
know just how good this variety is, as we
have not had a wet season to try it out, but
it is a drouglit-resister. It is inclined to be
fine in the straw at the head, which in a
heavy crop in a wet year might cans' 1
trouble. It holds the grain well and threshes
nicely. I am of the opinion that when the
good years arrive this wheat will be heard
of because of very big yields.
HARROWING.
“Yeoman”: The harrows are the most
valuable cultural implement on the farm
and the most neglected. They should be
used frequently on the fallow: after every
rain to restore the loose, dry surface tilth
that seals the moisture below; and immedi-
ately the surface shows signs of setting and
cracking or otherwise acting as a conduit for
the rise and escape of conserved moisture
by evaporation. The latter will take place
during a long, dry spell unless the harrows
are used. Of course, if the winter fallow is
dirty with weeds, the cultivator will be
needed. That, however, should not* be neces-
sary after the early part of spring, subse-
quent to which the harrows can do. all that
is required until the following autumn, unless
soil conditions are exceptional.
The harrows should follow the combine
when seeding. The young wheat crop will
benefit appreciably, too, in most cases by
a harrowing after the plant has passed the
“weaning” stage.
FEEDS AND FEEDING.
“F.S.A.”: The mineral content is a fac-
tor frequently overlooked in computing the
percentage of digestible, nutrients in foods.
A deficiency of any essential soil constituent
comprising plant food will be reflected in
the mineral content of the fodder or herbage
which will, in turn, affect its feeding value.
The addition of common salt to the ration
will, to some extent only, rectify mineral
deficiency. The daily dose of salt should be:
Milk cows, 20z.; fattening ration (hand-fed)
for cattle, 340 z. each; cattle on pasture,
20z.; horses, loz.; pigs, l^oz.; sheep, foz.
Salt will not, however, make up for a de-
ficiency of calcium, iron, phosphorus or,
say, iodine in Ihe feedstuffs.
Considerable saving in the cost of feeding
can be effected if the rations are compounded
on a scientific basis —that is to say, if the
actual quantities of albuminoids, carbohy-
drates and fats required by respective ani-
mals are supplied in balanced proportions.
To do this it is l necessary to study a table
of digestible nutrients of the various avail-
able feedstuffs —fodder's, grains and concen-
trates, so that a selection can be made of
those that will provide the most units for
a given cost. The daily nutrients required
are:—
Per lOOOIb. Live Weight.
Dry Albumin- Carbo-
Feed. oids. hydrates. Fat.
lb. lb. lb. lb.
Horse, light work . . 21.00 1.50 9.10 0.30
„ heavy work . . 25.50 2.80 12.40 0.80
Milk cow, 1-2 gal... 24.00 1.75 11.50 0.30
„ „ 2-3 gal... 26.00 2.15 12.50 0.40
„ „ 3-4 gal... 28.00 2.50 13.00 0.50
Per lOOlb. Live Weight.
Sheep, maintenance. . 2.25 0.12 1.08 0.025
„ fattening . . 2.75 0.33 1.48 0.055
Dry feed is the weight of the feedstuffs after
the p.c. of water has been deducted. A cer-
tain amount of bulk is necessary.
Albuminoids and fat are worth three times
as much as carbohydrates. The actual feed-
ing value of any feedstuff at present can be
ascertained by allowing 3d. per lb. for the
digestible albuminoids and fat, and Id. per
lb. for the carbohydrates content. On this
basis some feedstuffs will be found to be
much too dear, and cheaper substitutes
should be sought. For example, a ton of
lucerne-hay has nearly the same feeding
value as a ton of bran. Either has a feed-
ing value, nearly three times that of wheaten-
hay. Where hay or hay-chaff costs as much
as lucerne-hay, or chaff, or bran (and this
is the experience in many districts at the
moprent), then the feed bill could be appreci-
ably reduced bv using less hay or chaff and
more bran or lucerne.
EFFECTS OF lODINE.
“R.X.8.”: At the Agricultural Experi-
ment Station of Ohio, Dr. Munroe fed regu-
lar quantities of iodine to cows during lacta-
tion, with the result that one cow on test
produced 15,0001 b. milk under treatment as
against 10,0001 b. during a previous period
when no iodine was given, and the fat con-
tent increased by nearly 2501 b. The milk
from an older cow increase from 57001 b. to
83001 b., with an increase in butter-fat from
3001 b. to 4701 b.
Experiments with pigs revealed that when
a small dose was given regularly the average
gain per pig per day was 1.551 b., while the
pigs that did rot receive the dose gained
only 1.371 b. But when the quantity of the
dose was increased the pigs that did not
receive it made the better gain, which indi-
cates that the giving of the correct dose
regularly is of importance, so that the pre-
sence of a mineral in a stock lick is not all
that is required.
From the Rowett Research Institute, at
Aberdeen, Dr. Boyd Orr reports that his
researches last year convince him that the
correctly balanced mineral ration will pro-
long the useful l:fe of a cow by two or three
years, and that 3gr. potassic iodide per week
per hen will increase the productive life of
the bird by at least 12 months. It is claimed
not only that an apparently insignificant
dose has a definite and salutary effect on
the animal or bird, but also that it definitely
improves the quality, of their progeny by
making them healthier, resulting in earlier
maturity and fecundity.
The _ doses recommended are 10 grains a
week for a cow, Ogr. for a horse, Ogr. for
a pig; 3gr. for a sheep and 3gr. for poultry.
These are individual doses, each animal or
bird receiving its own dose in a capsule or
in a pellet of ma§h.
PEAS TO STOP DRIFT.
“J.A.W.” : This year I had a lot 'of sand-
drift, and on one hill that had gutters 2ft.
deep cut in it by the wind, I levelled off
while wet in June with a springtyne cul-
tivator, with the hand-levers tied open not
to catch, and about a week afterwards sowed
with field-peas, 1 bushel of peas and 501 b.
super, per acre, using a combine while the
ground was fairly wet. It did not drift any
more, and there is now a splendid growth
just up to one’s knees of pea-plants. The
rest of the paddock is under fallow, and I
intend to sow it all with wheat next year.
REARING DAIRY COWS.
“Agronomist” : When the calf is dropped it
should be left with the cow for five days;
mammary complications are thus largely
avoided. After the fifth day it should be
removed and trained to drink; and here great
care is called for. If the calf is obstinate
and refuses the finger, it is often allowed
to go hungry for possibly 36 hours, and
thereby receives a check in growth from
which it never wholly recovers. When a
calf refuses its first meal after removing
from the dam it should be fed by gently
pouring down its throat the necessary quan-
tity of milk at blood heat from a clean
bottle. If the calf is not allowed to miss a
meal it is surprising how it retains its rosy
outlook on life in spite of loneliness.
. The calf should receive whole milk for
14 days after weaning, always fed at blood
heat and from clean vessels. After this, sep-
arated milk free from froth may be gradually
mixed with the whole milk, until at the end
of four weeks only separated milk can be
fed. From the time that separated milk is
first used the calf should receive a small
daily portion (say, an eggeupful) of gruel,
made by mixing 31b. pollard and lib. linseed
meal with 3gal. water, and simmering until
the mixture “jellies” when cold. This gruel
must be made daily to prevent souring, and
should be fed in increasing quantities until
the calf is taking a pint of gruel in a gallon
of skim-milk twice daily at three months
old. Milk feeding should be continued for
the longest possible period according to
farm convenience, the calves running mean-
while in paddocks with ample shade and
water, and where change of pasture can be
had.
At all times a loose lick should be within
reach of the calves ; many suitable ones can
be bought, but the following formula will
be found all that is necessary: Coarse salt,
301 b.; sterilised bonemeal, 51b.; sulphate of
iron, lib.
IN FAVOR OF H.-T. WIRE.
“J.A.S.”: Many farmers are unfamiliar
with anything but 8- and 10-gauge soft wires,
and have a strong antipathy to what they
generally term “that hard stuff.” Yet good
li.-t. wire is strong, easy to erect and much
less trouble once it is erected than the soft
wires. And it is economical where railway
freights are high. The most commonly used
is 12£-gauge, first-quality wire costing about
245. per coil, which runs 1480 yards and has
q breaking-strain equal to ordinary 8-gauge.
Even in comparison with 10-gauge, however,
which runs 880 yards to the coil, I find it
works out as follows: —
Three coils 124-gauge h.*t. wire at 245. £3 12 0
(Total 4440 yards)
Freight at 3s. per coil .. .. .. 9 0
Total £4 10
Five coils• 10-gauge soft wire at 16s. 6d. £4 2 6
(Total 4440 yards)
Freight at 3s. per coil . . . . .. 15 0
Total £4 17 6
Thus the saving by erecting a fence of
li.-t. is at least 15 p.c., plus reduced labor
in handling a less number of coils. The
above comparison has been made on the best
li.-t. wire. It can be obtained as low as
18s. per coil, but it pays to buy the best in
this wire more than in any other.
A little more care is necessary in erection;
li.t. should not be bent around the posts, a
coil of soft wire being used for this purpose.
More especially where fences are required
which have, say, three plain and two barb
wires, high tensile is undoubtedly the stuff.
FASHIONS IN PORK.
“Dinnis” : Just as modern fashion in beef-
eating demands the marketing of small and
young cattle, so does modernity demand
more pork chops to its pig. At the recent
conference of the Federation of British
Meat Traders, held at Blackpool, it was
agreed that the short, early maturing pig
once thought ideal for the fresh-pork trade
is being displaced by the longer and later-
maturing breeds, which have always been
the ideal of the bacon industry. Pigs of
this type carry a larger proportion of lean
to fat, as fashion now demands, and also
provide more pork chops than the short,
thickset type, the chop being the part most
in demand for fresh pork, while it is equally
an advantage to the bacon purveyor. In
short, it was the opinion of the conference
that the bacon type nowadays pays better
to breed than its one-time rival in the fresh-
pork market. The long-sided pig loses a bit
in comparison in the forequarters, but more
than makes up for it by extra ribbing and
heavy flanks,
TOMATO GROWING.
“XSA”: Although tomatoes have come
into the southern markets from Queensland
all through the winter, it must not be
thought that the prices for those locally
grown will suffer. There is too great a
difference in quality, as the colder climates
tend to produce a firm, fleshy and richly-
colored fruit. It must also be fully realised
that, owing to the restrictions on imported
puree, there is an almost unlimited demand
for pulping qualities.
Having by now escaped the ravages of
cutworms, the plants should be kept grow-
ing. Projierly tended, a vine should carry
a half-case. Use the fork-hoe close to each
and then plough well up to them. A good
dressing of super, and blood and bone (50-
50) may be made at any time; and if fol-
lowed three weeks later with either nitrate
of soda or sulphate of ammonia, all that
can be done by way of fertilising will be
completed.
On sign of wilt, chop out the affected
vine. On the appearance of the disease
it is too late to spray.
If staking is possible this should always
be done. Fruit kept well clear of the
ground will not scald; and no matter how-
much protecting foliage there is, vines will
otherwise open out and lie flat after the
first very hot day. It is easily possible to
lose the bulk of the best fruit through sun
scsld.
Pick directly it is possible, never relying
upon size so much as natural fitness to
ripen off the vine. Maturity is denoted by
a faint blush amidst the dark green near
the stalk or a milky tinge on the face. Very
large quantities of immature tomatoes are
sent forward for the early market, and this
is a sheer waste* of time and money. The
race at this stage is won by the early arri-
vals of quality, and others are very often
destroyed.
Grade and pack to color as well as to
size. If this is not done the agent or buyer
will repack and take good care to pay on
the basis of the worst fruit in the box.
Country-order men who are very large
operators are fastidious in these matters.
Indeed they have to be. Be sure the lid of
the box closes. Tomatoes do not shrink,
and they bruise more easily than many
growers appear to realise. Never allow them
to ripen on the vine until the time comes
for factory supplies. In brief, 100 choice
cases will bring more than 500 inferior ones.
SUBTERRANEAN CLOVER.
“Melbin”: Spring-sowing of sub. clover,
recommended by “Bullswool” (B. 4/9/’29).
did not give good results near Melbourne on
a 25in. rainfall last year. It was sown in
(Continued on page 32.)


r
C
e
where you want it /
and when you want it !
Send your Water Supply problems to our Pump Expert. He
will, without, obligation, advise how pumps can help you.
,“ACME”
Low Down
Double Acting Lift and
Force Pump, cylinder 5
x-5, 1600 gal. per hour.
Splendid for all-round
use. Cog-gear renders
operation easy. Fitted
for 2in. pipes.
n
“ROTEX”
m
p \ 1
A Power Rotary Force
Pump, designed for the
rapid elevation of
liquids. For ljin.
pipe, £6/10/-
Other sizes on appli-
cation.
SEMI-
ROTARY
Besides being useful
generally, these
pumps are specially
adapted for oils,
petrol, etc. For Jin.
pipe, 25/- Other
sizes up to
2in. avail-
able.
f
“RAPID”
Centrifugal
Where a large quantity
of water is required at low
pressure, our Rapid Centri-
fugal Pumps (illustrated at
top) are unequalled. Of
a modern efficient design,
“Rapid Pumps” are made
in single or multi stages.
lin. single stage £4/10/-
lin. two stage £7
Particulars of others on
application.
“AJAX”
Low Down
Doubl e-acting.
Made for ljin.
pipes. Capacity 700
gal. per hour. Cog-
g e a r facilitates
operation. All
valves easily
reached.
“MACSON”
“Macson” Double-act-
ing Piston Pumps are
ideal for general pump-
ing work. £l7 will
buy a “Macson” for
ljin. pipes, and cap-
able of giving 360 gal.
per hour. See catalogue
for other sizes.
ALL PRICES F.O.R. MELBOURNE.
Send for our Latest General Catalogue.
"Dependable Goods Since 1860.”
51-65 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
Collins Street, Melbourne. 116-30 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
582-92
DOUBLE
GEARED
II
COMPLETELY
ENCASED
15he
Billabong
Windmill
Self Oiling
Rainproof
Dustproof
And IT carries
Our Guarantee
The Encased-Gear Billabong is most modern Jjf JSjcttonVistliTone
b MWa® MSaas: *.
Many Extra Years of Service. i(TJ -
Our Windmill Catalogue illustrates and describes ‘ Billabong, >usy
“Little Bill” Windmills. It is post free on request.
Billabong Steel Troughing
Billabong All Steel Troughing is well known for
its great strength and durability. It is set in two
or more heavy angle and T-Steel Frames, which
form a most rigid bed. Thus Billabong Troughing
withstands rough usage and gives longer service.
This Troughing is easily assembled, and is made in
styles to suit cattle, calves and sheep; also a very
heavy type is made for pigs.
Sp
12
'&*■
mk
Send for Windmill Catalogue and Troughing Folder.
gmimtiiiiiii
1 JOHN
nilllllllllllltlllllir
IIiMQ
&SONI
imimimiimir?
:
pry-
-391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER
a
«
as
i
ir-
is
t.Va
m
mm
■
mm
a
:
-r -v
1
•m
mm
rt-rr
ss«
si
m
i
i |f s ' : '
;
m
if
m
m
m i
■
■:
&
SI
QUICK HARVESTING cuts down
the period of crop insurance;
reduces loss of grain from shed-
ding; makes the harvest season
short, sharp, and therefore more
economical.
12ft. CUT. SELF-PROPELLED.
HARVESTS FORTY ACRES OF CROP
IN A DAY.
CONSUMES ONLY HALF A GALLON
OF PETROL TO THE ACRE.
TWO MEN ONLY REQUIRED
on the Auto Header—one to
drive and one to tend the
bagging. Labor is the most
expensive item in harvest costs.
This machine reduces it to a
minimum.
STORM FLATTENED AND TANGLED
CROPS ARE SUCCESSFULLY
HARVESTED BY THE
SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER.
ALSO CROPS INFESTED WITH THISTLES.
NO OTHER MACHINE CAN EQUAL
ITS PERFORMANCE.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE, AUSTRALIA.
BRANCHES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne. 27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide. Cr. Murray and King Streets, Perth.
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
H. V. McKAY (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
Catalogue , Price and Terms posted jree on request.


Mi;;
The features which
a leader, are now
commerc
General Motors makes available a commercial
unit embracing those features of service that have won
for Pontiac an enviable reputation on the roads of Australia.
Here is a sturdy, powerful, six-cy Under engine, in a rugged
chassis. Here is staunchness and capability. Here is smooth operation
and economical habits. Here is trouble-free express delivery, the
benefits of which are vital to those whose business demands speedy
<s
and efficient haulage.
The detail and finish of the
four useful body styles have
been given the same careful
attention that has ever typi-
fied the Pontiac motor car.
i—'Mibb i liiiminiin
Model 602
Open Delivery
Model 601 —Closed Delivery
BUY FROM YOU!
METROPOLITAN
BRISBANE: Buy from Your Local Dealer.
SYDNEY: John McGrath, Limited, Castlereagh Street.
MELBOURNE: Southern Motors Pty., Ltd., Lonsdale Street.
IP©
EXPRESS


m
m
IVJ
have made the car
available in Pontiac
al units
r
In short, Pontiac offers the maximum of service in
Express Delivery.
Confer with your Pontiac dealer on your delivery prob-
lems. Let him help you select the most appropriate type. Let
him explain the super-service, the performance, and operating economy
that the Pontiac Express Delivery offers to your business. He will
gladly advise you in all the details of selection, finance and operation.
Model 603 —Flareboard Delivery
T>T> 1/^I7O COMPLETE WITH
I KiLE/O BODY - - - - from t^OJ
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR
Convenient Payments can be arranged on the liberal
Q.M.A.C. Terms Plan.
GENERAL MOTORS
(AUSTRALIA PT Y. LTD*
BRISBANE . SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
I LOCAL DEALER.
I DISTRIBUTORS.
ADELAIDEGeorge Mason, Limited, Franklin Street.
PERTH: Skipper Bailey Motor Co., Ltd., Milligan Street Division.
BRISBANE: Buy from Your Local Dealer.
m\c
DELIVERY
Model 604 — Well-side Delivery


sd
Top-grade leather
In black or tan, this shoe offers all
the special easy-fitting features of
Abbey design. Low-cut sides tough,
pliant sole natural arch at the lacing
everything that makes for greater
muscle freedom is provided. It fits
closely, but with utmost comfort.
Ideal for everyday wear.
ORDER BY POST: Full and half
sizes are available, in both medium
and wide fittings. Specify width, and
order, also, the correct Abbey Polish
(6d. per tin).
BLACK BOX CALF . . .. 39/6
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 39/6
Enlarged catalogue of men’s and women’s
footwear post free.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street, and 224 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
Telegraphic Address: “Abbey Boots,” Sydney.
PPL 149
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins .. . 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
POST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Martin Ditcher
Most useful farm implement
in Australia. Quickly saves
the cost, £35, in speed, effi-
ciency and wages. Ditches,
levels, irrigates, drains, re-
claims, builds and repairs
roads, etc.
J. B. WALLIS LTD.
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
168 Edward Street, Brisbane
T. T. Building, Light Street, Adelaide
Padbury Building, Forrest Place, Perth.
B.K.
X
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
v*
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
“THE EXAMINER” is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricul-
tural, Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” has been published in Launceston
for 87 years, and is still the family newspaper of
Northern Tasmania.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from;
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. V. W. Margetts,
122 Flinders Street,
Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SUTTONS OF READING, ENGLAND
Seedsmen to H.M. the King.
Vegetable and Flower Seeds.
The newest and most improved strains saved from pedigree stocks as well as the best of
the standard varieties.
We stock seeds in the original packages, or will obtain for customers any of Sutton’s well-
known varieties of flower or garden seeds, or special grass seeds for lawns, golf courses, etc.
Murdoch Bros. Pty., Ltd., Hobart, Tasmania.
CHANDLER’S VERANDAH BLINDS
if,
i
JL
6ft. x Bft.
17/6
9ft. x Bft.
25/6
12ft. x Bft.
32/6
each.
CHANDLER’S VERANDAH BLINDS are made in our own factory under the
supervision of experts who have spent years in perfecting their craft. They
are sent out complete with top batten, heavy bottom roller, single and
double pulley straps, cord and staples.
The special line of blinds quoted above is made only in the 3 sizes, with Bft.
drop, and is obtainable in English White or Green or Brown block striped duck.
Prices of other sizes and qualities will be sent on application together with
samples if desired.
Prices are Free on Rails, Melbourne.
D. & W. CHANDLER LTD.
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY, VICTORIA.
early September, never looked a winner,
burnt off eventually, and set only a few
small seeds. A crop of millet would pay
better and give tucker in summer when it
was wanted.
In natural pasture, sub. clover shoots in
our district with the first autumn rains. It is
tne first plant up along with capeweed.
Early sow-ings suit it best, as it gets estab-
lished and makes some winter growth. If
not sown until early winter, it doesn’t put
up a show until spring, but will set seed
treely and come away well the next autumn.
Unless given at least occasional dressings
ot superphosphate, it does not grow.
PREPARING CHRISTMAS POULTRY.
“G.H’.W.”: The Christmas market for
poultry opens early in November. Large buy-
ers like to have their supplies stowed away in
cold-storage well ahead of the festive season.
They are prepared to pay good prices for the
class of poultry they want.
It is time to get marketable birds into
trim.
Turkeys should fetch big money again this
year, but the difference between the price
tor first quality and for ordinary birds will
be vast. It is not at all difficult to bring
them into condition if commonsense rules
are applied, fit is a mistake to pen them
up in an endeavor to fatten. Turkeys like
tree range and should have it. All that is
necessary is to make food conditions attrac-
tive enough to induce laziness. Ground
oats, maize and barley-meal mixed with pol-
lard, the whole in a crumbly Condition, may
be given ad lib. A warm mixture of meat
or offal and boiled wheat is beneficial, but
nothing hot should be attempted. What-
ever change in diet is made should be grad-
ual, as these birds are easily put off their
food. That, in fact, is the reason for advis-
ing free range. As weight is unfortunately
of more consequence than quality, the idea
is to make the birds as heavy as possible.
Therefore, the ration can be adjusted or
maintained as may be desirable.
Fowls and ducks should be penned up and
systematically fattened. They will do well
on flesli-producing foods, and also will bene-
fit from lack of exercise. Some poultrymen
feed with sloppy mashes with good results.
Others feed an ordinary building 4 ration and
deny an ample water supply. This latter is
absolutely cruel, and could not in any case
return sufficient to warrant the torture.
It is always advisable to study market
requirements. Every poultry-farmer has a
varied assortment to' send in, and each will
have . its particular time for marketing.
Definite Christmas sales should be catered
for with definite Christmas qualities. The
best buyers always attend these, and are
expert in their judgment. It is a good plan
to advise the agent as to stock on offer, giv-
ing full details as to age, condition, etc.
If, on his advice, the first consignment has
been satisfactorily placed, it is quite likely
that further lots will be asked for by the
same buyers, and quite reasonable to expect
that a straight-out price will be offered for
these consignments.
Do not overcrowd crates. These are limited
as to holding capacity by law, but large
birds in killing condition need plenty of
breathing space. If crowded some may die,
but all will suffer a reduction in weight. Give
the birds a good drink and feed, and see
that they have plenty of shade (boughs or
bracken, not bags) on their journey from the
farm to the railway or market.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
A method of killing crows on sheep selec-
tions?—2723.
Most of the methods of killing crows by
poisoning have proved to be very unsatisfac-
tory. Recommended methods of poisoning
were published in the Service Page (B.
24/4/’29). The best method of reducing
their numbers has been found to be trapping.
An economical mixture for spraying sheep
as a preventive against blowfly? —3o26.
Take 21b. white arsenic, 230 z. washing
soda, 21b. soap, 100 gallons water. Boil
the washing soda and arsenic together in a
gallon of water till dissolved. Slice the soap
and dissolve in another gallon of hot water.
Mix the two solutions together and add cold
water to make the whole up to 100 gallons.
(1) How and when should capons be mar-
keted? (2) Best breeds for caponising? (3)
Age at which the operation should be per-
formed? —3107.
(1) Hospitals and the better-class hotels,
restaurants and boarding-houses are the
most regular purchasers—but if the supply
is greater than demand the marketing of the
surplus should take place when young birds
of quality are scarce—from March until
early cockerels are on the market —-say Sept.
(2) Cockerels of any breed may be capon-
ised, but breeds of the light or small varie-
ties, such as Leghorns, are not so suitable
as the larger varieties, such as Orpingtons.
(3) Varies with development and breeds,
but generally speaking the correct period is
between eight and twelve weeks, when the
chickens are about 21b. in weight.
Remedies for blackhead among turkeys;
also how to prevent the disease from attack-
ing incubator-hatched birds? —3101.
Administer sulphur, 5 grains ; sulphate of
iron, 1 grain, preceded and followed by a
dose of Epsom salts (10 to 35 grains) or
of castor oil ($ to 3 teaspoons). Measures
of prevention are obtaining eggs from
birds believed to be healthy; wiping the eggs
with a cloth wet with alcohol (80 to 90 per
cent.) before they are placed in the incuba-
tor or under the hen for hatching, and hatch-
ing in an incubator, or at least removing the
eggs from under the hen a day or two before
hatching would occur, wiping with alcohol,
and finishing in an incubator, in order to
avoid exposing the poults to the hen. The
young poults should be placed on ground
which is distant from all other domesticated
fowls, and which has' not recently been
occupied by other fowls. One teaspoon of
liquid ipecacuanha in each quart of drinking
water once or twice a week, from the time
the birds are three months old, can be used
as a preventive. Thei same treatment is also
used as a cure, in which case the ipecacuanha
is put in the water every other day.
(1) Is seaweed a good fertiliser? (2)
Should it be exposed to the air for any time
before using? (3) If dug in by itself, and
young trees or plants planted in it, what
effect will it have? (4) Should • earth be
mixed with it when, being dug in? —2925.
(1) Seaweed contains approximately 0.3
p.c. nitrogen, 0.1 p.c. phosphoric acid and
0.3 to 0.6 p.c. potash, and on the south and
west coasts of England and in the Channel
Islands it forms the staple manure. It is
only used to a very limited extent in Aus-
tralia. So much of its weight is water that
its -use is limited to land near beaches. (2)
The general practice is to use in the green
state. When kept till it rots the organic
matter decomposes rapidly, with loss of nitro-
gen. (3) The action would be somewhat
similar to, though less valuable than, farm-
yard manure. (4) No. It is incorporated
with the soil some time after application.
In some countries it is applied as a top-dress-
ing to grass-land.
(1) Title of book giving practical data
regarding wire-netting, galvanised-iron tanks,
irrigation, manuring and, erecting farm build-
ings, and where obtainable? (2) Fruit falls
off my cherry, plum and pear trees before
it matures. The trees arc healthy and free
from disease. What’s the cause? —294l.
(1) “Farmers’ Handbook” (sth Edition),
procurable from N.S.W. Dept, of Agricul-
ture, Sydney. Price, 11s. 2d.; post free. (2)
Chief causes are nitrogen starvation, over
production of blossom and lack of pollina-
tion. In your case, the trees being healthy
and free from disease, the lack of suitable
pollinators is indicated. Cherry-trees, pear-
trees and many varieties of plums are self-
sterile, and do* not crop satisfactorily unless
varieties of the same kind of fruit are
planted in close proximity. A leaflet on
cross-pollination of fruit trees has been
posted.
(1) How to make a cheap beehive?' (2)
How to transfer a swarm of bees from a
temporary hive to permanent quarters? (3)
Name of am inexpensive book on the subject?
—2873.
(1) A cheap frame-hive that will comply
with tlio provisions of the Apiaries Act can
be made from a benzine-case made of |-inch
timber. Knock off one of the broad sides,
nail on the original cover, which will now
form one of the sides, and if the sides are
not level, build up with fillets of wood. The
depth inside should be lOin. Next nail on
at each end, half an inch below the upper
edges of the ease, a fillet of wood fin. thick by
fin. wide, and the length of the inside of the
case, from which to suspend the frames.
Frames to fit this hive are procurable from
Pender Bros., West Maitland, N.S.W. at
3s. 3d. per set of ten. An entrance fin. wide
by lOin. long should be cut out of the lower
part of one end of the case and a small
alighting board nailed on underneath, pro-
jecting Sin. in front. The cover can be made
from the side knocked off, and should have
small fillets lin. wide nailed on right round
the edge to overlap the body. Cover the
whole with. ruberoid, which should overlap
the edges. A super, which is the upper storey
of a hive in which surplus honey is stored,
can be made in the same way, except that
the bottom is not required. (2) Too. long
to describe here. See pamphlet “The Apiaries
Act,” issued free by the N.S.W. Dept, of
Agriculture. (3) “The Beginner in Bee Cul-
ture,” obtainable from N.S.W. Dept of Agri-
culture, Sydney, Is. Id.
A suitable manure for garden cultivation
of potatoes?— 3l37.
Use a mixture of soz. superphosphate and
loz. ammonium sulphate to each two square
yards, sown with the seed sets.
Is there any means of preventing fence-
posts rotting off at the ground level up to
three inches above and three inches under
ground ? —2895,
If the posts are painted with, or prefer-
ably steeped in, creosote oil before setting
in the ground, their life will be greatly ex-
tended. By pouring a little creosote on the
ground round the post, say, every two years,
decay ordinarily induced at the ground level
by wind and ’ water will be considerably
checked.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“XSA”: If strawberries must be picked
during wet weather, they should be drained
and placed under shelter in the wind to
dry out. The larger the berries the more
certain it is they will rot if packed otherwise.
“Bushman”: Lay hold of every cask you
can. They are invaluable on the farm—for
.mixing spray for fruit trees, pickling wheat,
salting meat and for an emergency tank
under a leaky spout. Keep them in a cool
dry shed when not in use.
“Farmer”; It is a mistake to give fowls
skim-milk; also a great waste. That is, in
liquid form. To make the best use of it
leave it stand until it becomes thick. Then
pour it into bags and hang the bags up. This
allows all the whey to drain off. That
will take about two hours. Then give it
to the fowls.
“Burmur” : If your prad is hard to catch,
try this instead of hopples or shin-tapper.
Get a couple of feet of used motor-tyre. Fix
a swivel and link to one end; get a hopple-
strap and all is ready. It is practically
impossible for a horse to be injured with
this fixing, and it is lighter and more effec-
tive than a chain.
“XSA”: Keep the foliage of all fruit
trees and vines clear of the ground. Only
scale pests are parasitic; most other kinds
at one time or another emerge from the
soil. A great check on these is to maintain
a sticky band around the barrel and search
periodically. Insects which do not become
entangled will often be found waiting
patiently for a removal of the obstruction —
elephant beetles in particular.
“Elgar” : Some simple cable liar took the
trouble to send across the world the news
that a London exhibitor showed a tree bear-
ing cooking-apples below and eating-apples
above. Ten yards from my back door I
have a stone-pippin tree, on which I have
grafted Emperor Alexander (cooking) apples
on one side and Jonathans on the other;
both have borne for years. Alongside is a
Keiffer on which are grafted the big Genoese
quince one side and Packham’s triumph
(absolutely the best pear) on the other.
What these experimenters want to make a
fuss about is a stoneless loquat.


PAINFUL POEMS
Within that house I dined last
night,
But not again, that’s certain ;
For, when I left, I set it alight,
By putting a match to a curtain
r
'
f M
iPES^Wse^-.
Delightful hosts, the best of wine,
Food worthy of Lucullas,
But (this is where I drew the line)
They hadn’t got Abdullas !
—Fougasse.
ftBDUIM SUPERB (TGARETTES
VIRGINIA
TURKISH
EGYPTIAN
szs-
AAAAAM
AAlAfc
This Tachometer
shows Graham-
Paige engine mak-
ing only 2080 revo-
lutions per minute
at 50 miles per
hour
This Tachometer
shows average
three-speed car en-
gine making 2775
revolutions per
minute at 50 miles
per hour
SPEEDOMETER
MILES
PER
HC4JR
G*'
(»
ENGINE /
REVOLUTIONS h
PER MINUTE /A
ENGINE //
REVOLUTIONS Ijk
PER MINUTE //
SEE WHY
50 miles an hour seems like 38—
with Graham-Paige Four-Speed
Transmission.
We Invite You
to try the TACHOMETER TEST
the Graham'Paige
Four'Speed Transmission
oumS
Until you have experienced the quiet smoothness of the Graham-
Paige fourth speed, you have missed the peak of modern motor-car
enjoyment. A new thrill awaits you when you drive this four-speed
Graham-Paige. We have specially equipped a car with a tachometer
to enable you to see why Graham-Paige automobiles have less wear
and tear, last longer, and supply greater riding ease and comfort
than it is possible to get with an ordinary three-speed car. Graham-
Paige third, for steep hills or swift, silent acceleration in traffic, will
also be a pleasant revelation to you.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
Graham-Paige Distributors , Australia, and New Zealandi
QUEENSLAND MOXON MOTORS, LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES W. H. LOBER & CO., LTD.
VICTORIA WALTER WHITBOURN PTY., LTD.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
WEST AUSTRALIA
TASMANIA
MAUGHAN THIEM MOTOR CO., LTD.
ARTHUR BALES, LIMITED.
. .. TWIN-TOP MOTORS PTY., LTD.
NEW ZEALAND .. WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO., LTD.
&AAMAM-PAIGE


RIN-TIN'TIN
W m
the
famous
Screen
Actor
is fed
exclusively
on
Ken-T Ration
THE DOG FOOD SUPREME
FREE—Sample Tin sent to any address
in the Commonwealth.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB, P. 0. Box 1821, Melbourne
sad
You are on Firm Ground with the P. & C.
THE P. & C. works hand in hand with the man on the
land. From long and intimate experience it under-
stands his problems, and, because of its co-operative
basis, meets them. During dreaded times of stress policies
are kept in force, money is loaned, and the interests of its
members thus protected. Enjoy these extra benefits. Let
the P. &C. protect you without delay. Discuss the matter
with a representative or write direct for information.
Chairman of Directors : Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director : H. Fell
„ PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.^
221-225 ELIZABETH STREET. SYDNEY. qgS
sad
Just the thing
for Holidaying
Motoring - Fishing
—Golfing, etc.
The "TROPIC”
BEACH HAT
This light, cool hat of varnished pressed
straw has become highly popular among
men. It is waterproof will not crack
ot split may be packed fTf /I
or tolled. .>•> Price // O
All Sizes B /
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street, Brisbane
SMOKE-OH !
Seasonable warning: There’s many a
slip ’twixt the Cup and the tip.
NO NEED TO WORRY ABOUT THAT.
PEGGY STRUCKITT (just married): “From now onward,
Ebenezer, I shall one disturbing thought
in my life —that some day I may become a
widow.”
EBEN. STRUCKITT: “My little girl, don’t tink of it—
vile I live you never shall!”
“President Hoover, after 45 years’ experience, finds
that fishing, next to prayer, does man most good.”
However, it’s not nearly so good for the
sole.
¥ 4’
FINIS.
He’s gone to everlasting peace.
No one has cause to sob
Now that he is where labors cease —
In a soft Labor job.
“There are still many who believe in rue love.”
—S. M. Herald.
The old paper was less cynical in its
younger days.
“I met my enemies and gave them a hiding.”
W' m. Marks, M.P., at declaration of Wentworth
poll.
Any classical scholar would, of course,
have "known enough to beware the Ides ot
Marks.
* *
“The terms were moderate, but then there was
a large opening in one of the walls.”--— Storyteller.
A case of the larger the rent the smaller
the rent.
V At
MODERN VERSION.
Husli-a-bye, Baby,
In a sedan,
Over the hilltops
With a young man.
When the car stops
Don’t yell loud and long;
There’s just a chance
That something IS wrong!
* *
The inspiring old signal
was nailed to the masthead
at Flemington as usual: —
Isvael expects that every man this week will
do his boodle.
* ¥
“There are moneylenders who do not possess a
penny of their own money; they lend the money
of other people.” —Witness in bankruptcy.
These are the unprincipalled moneylenders
we are always hearing about, presumably.
H- *
“He tried to get the leading batsman of the
opposing team drunk.” —Storyteller.
Wanted to bowl him, in fact.
* #
“Mr. Grey colored up.”—Storyteller.
Became Mr. Red, in short.
* *
PM AN.
“Respondent denied that he had stayed out late
at night except when detained at business. He had
never had a ‘night out’ in his life. He never told
his wife lies.” —Divorce report.
Oh, smite the lyre! His virtues sing
In phrases full of epic fire!
He never did a naughty thing —
Or so he says , Oh, smite the liar!
“Beeause of his filthy condition, a man who
answered questions in the voice of an educated
Englishman, had to be led to the Cathedral-street
police station yesterday morning at the end of a
rope. Constable Morgan had found him lying in
a pool of water in the Domain.” — Guardian.
Another example of the difficulty of get-
ting an Englishman away from his morning
tub.
A» it
IRISH.
“Counsel: ‘Whv did you put a lock on the door?’
“Defendant: ‘So that it would open more easily.
—Sydney breach case.
’Twas not for ease in opening
He locked his door. Nay, do not mock.
The man who said this baffling thing
Doubtless employed a Paddy-lock.
H. M.
I sheer off girls who put on frill
Because, I always say,
The ones who dress themselves to kill
May cook food, too, that way.
“Investigations by U.S. scientists have established
that the faces of members of the Caucasian race are
growing longer.”
The thing could have been proved by a
visit to National headquarters any day last
week.
[For matter requiring a signature, J. B. Dailey.
214 George-street, Sydney, shares the blame with
J. E. Webb, same address.]
A MASCULINE VIEW OF IT.
“The modern girl’s underclothing has a demoralis-
ing effect on men.”— Delegate at Goulburn (N.S.W.)
conference of Country Women’s Association,
When my thoughts turn to underclothing
(And I can’t say they do it much)
I muse, as a rule, on the gauzy things, all
ribbons and lace and such,
That the ladies wore in my youthful days.
The modern moralist rants
Of the hellish lure of the flapper’s clothes —
but the girls I meet wear pants.
One observes them hopping on trams (and
off) in knickers of celanese:
Their trouserings show ivhcncver their
skirts are stirred by a passing breeze.
With all respect to the delegates of the
Country Women’s Assoc.
I’ve yet to encounter a flapper’s breeks that
gave me a pleasing shock.
Some may get unhinged by a sudden view
of a pair of stout plus-fours,
And hold that bloomers of flannelette should
be banned by our vice censors:
If so, them in favor of something else let’s
by all means start a row.
The girls can hardly find anything worse
than the bags they’re wearing now.
D. J.
THE POWER OP REPARTEE.
10-2-4
“The Minister, for Mines (Mr. Weaver) was deal-
ing with the Commission’s investigations. Mr. Hamil-
ton Knight (Hartley) interjected: ‘What about the
Campbell Commission?’ The Minister, a master at
repartee, exclaimed: ‘I wish you would wake up—
you Rip Van Winkle!’ Everybody laughed.”
S. M. Herald.
This is quite as good as the famous effort
of Mr. Jos. Woogle, M.P., towards the end
of the eighteenth century—a gem of humor
which receives high praise in “British Wits
from Swift to Shaw.” Charles James Fox
was speaking on America when Woogle inter-
jected : “You old goat!” In the ensuing
blizzard of laughter party barriers fell, and
the contentious clauses of the Mixed Bathing
Bill were carried. .
But Woogle’s master-stroke came in tne
following session, and it is doubtful if even
Mr. Weaver can equal it. Burke had just
begun a peroration when Woogle suddenly
shouted “Tripe!” Before the laughter ot
the H’ouse could be checked two Opposition-
ists and four Ministerialists had expired ot
heart failure, and the Government fell, it
was by this service, of course, that W oogle
earned his peerage.
NO TERRORS FOR HIM.
“Every morning at nine o’clock Stalin, Lenin s
successor, leaves for Moscow in a powerful car, with
secret police sitting beside the chauffeur, and another
car filled with police agents following.” Cable.
The visitor from Sydney Trades Hall was
late for breakfast.
“You’ll have to wait before starting for
town,” apologised Mrs.
Stalin. “My husband has
taken our only armored car
to the office, and his guards
have to buy some machine-
guns and an 18-pounder for
the garden before they re-
turn.”
The comrade was dis- .
appointed.
“Enemies everywhere, I
suppose,” he said.
“Enemies ! We have none.
We massacred the last years ,
ago.”
“You mean to say your
old man takes all these pre-
cautions because of the com-
rades !”
“Certainly.”
The Sydneyite put on his
hat with a contemptuous
smile and made for the door,
at the same time pocketing
a revolver, a couple of razors
and an empty beer-bottle.
“I should have explained
before,” he said, and idly
dropped a passing moujik. “I
come from Darlinghurst.”
SINGEMOINE.
NO REAL CHANGE.
“Most of the defeated M’s.P. are philosophical.
‘We’ll now be able to enjoy a little home life,’
they say.”— Herald.
Yet the change may be less marked than
they anticipate. The ex-M.P. will be con-
THERE’S MORE THAN THE EYE CAN SEE.
PASSENGER (at sea for first time ). “Good Lor! WHAT
a lot of water!”
OLD HAND: “Yes, sir, and remember, sir, you can only
see what’s on top.”
fronted by an Opposition who knows all
his weak points. ITe will be required to
submit to the familiar institution of an auto-
cratic Speaker. He will experience the same
old interjections and all-night debates, with
periodical applications of the gag. Though
freed of the political machine, he will have
to cope with an efficient and ruthless domestic
machine. There will be the same catch-as-
catch-can rules of debate, the everlasting
question-time, the continual amendments,
the unceasing effort in the direction of
Reform, the never-ending struggle to abolisli
his Privileges.
While there will be a marked lack of loan-
money, very few adjournments, and no
smoking-room as a haven from the din of
battle, he will have to stand plenty of
Censure Motions.
He will not only have to sit through first
and second readings on certain issues, but
tenth and even
fifteenth readings.
He will need to
fight against “un-
reasonable deduc-
tions and unjusti-
fiable complaints,”
and will probably
sigh for the chari-
table Hansard that
toned down his un-
thinking remarks,
instead of exag-
gerating and add-
ing to them.
The only real
change from Parlia-
mentary life will be
the lack of oppor-
tunity to listen to
maiden speeches.
Otherwise, he will
find himself being
named bythe
Speaker, listening
to biting attacks by
an old and seasoned
campaigner, given
no chance of an
Address-in - Reply,
and never free
from the danger of losing his seat in the
house.
D. C.
FABLE OF THE CARELESS BROKER
AND THE REVENGEFUL WIDOW.
“He induced me to apply for S^ e ® e r“cert!
statement that the company would pay P
the first year and bonus shares. I t in N S W
I was swindled.” —-Thomas Henley, M.L.A., tn iv.ii.tr.
A Defenceless Widow (and Orphan) sent
in Hot ITaste for her Solicitor. I m ram-
pageous,” she said. “I bin swindled.
Man of Law nodded after
the manner of one who hears
a Twice-told Tale. “A Per-
son,” she proceeded, Man 1
will not call ’im, said I d
make 10 per cent., plus
bonus shares, out of a Hm-
vestment. I ain’t done it.
“Quite,” said the Attorney.
“One seldom does.” His
client dashed her new Vaga-
bond Hat to the floor ( in
Ungovernable Fury. “I’ll
show ’im Hup,” she cried.
“I’ll write to the papers
about ’im, make speeches”
“Unfortunately,” inter-
rupted her Legal _ Adviser,
“there are our Libel and
Slander Laws.” “Meanter
say HI can’t do it?” “Not
as a Private Citizen. The
Privilege of Publicly Slan-
dering a Private Enemy is
one of the Cherished Privi-
leges of Our Legislators.”
“Orright,” said the Defence-
less Widow implacably. “I’ll
Henter the ’Ouse.”
By nominating as a
Selected Nationalist, and
concentrating on the Labor
Vote, she scored a Decisive
Win and flayed her Enemy
to such purpose in a Maiden
Speech that he was obliged
to Flee the Country.
Moral : There are more
ways of killing a cat, etc.
10-2-4.
THE UNANSWERABLE PROBLEM.
“Only the resignation of Mr. Bavin’s Govern-
ment can allay panic and prevent disaster ovei the
basic-wage decision. Mr. Bavin should have resigned,
as I suggested, after the Federal election. Why does
he not do it?” — Opposition-ledder Lang.
The Opposition Leader’s grief was painful
to behold;
The Comrades tried to comfort him, but
met with scant, success.
Their optimistic forecasts left him abso-
lutely cold,
While talk of resignation seemed to please
him even less.
AFTER THE LITTLE ACCIDENT.
THE LADY OF THE PILLION: “Y ou silly fool! You know how I
hate turnips!”
The notion that he ought to ape Job’s meek
and, spineless ways
So- moved him that in shaking tones his
viewpoint he defined.
He crystallised his problem in a single
poignant phrase—
“If Bavin won’t resign,” he cried, “how
can I be resigned?”
10-2-4.


BLACK & WHITE
V
HC-
=#is
*S===_ -==-
SCOTCH WHISKY
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., 1 to 5 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY


V < e S4
3W
s
o
& bF
5
o
aY
o
**e_o
Many thousands of beautiful women use no other soap but
Rexona and they are unstinting in their praise of it. New users
write us that they wish they had tried Rexona Soap long ago.
w lt ’ s wonderful and once used no other soap will do,” they say.
So, o introduce the wonderful merits of Rexona Soap to every
woman we offer a pair of sheer pure silk stockings free. Just
think what this astounding offer means. For giving yourself the
benefits of using this real Health and Beauty soap, you can get a
pair of silk stockings as a present to your stocking drawer.
Real silk—no cheap artificial silk — and absolutely free!
A pair of these beautiful silk stockings can be yours in whatever
size or whatever shade you desire. All you have to do is to start
right away and collect the wrappers round every Rexona Soap
tablet. To our constant users these stockings will be an added
delight. To our new users the attainment of skin beauty and the
gift of a pair of silk stockings will bring unbounded delight.
Health and Beauty go hand in hand —attain to the Rexona
Beauty standard by using Rexona Soap —enhance that charm
by a pair of beautiful silk stockings.
Price 1/- per tablet
4
a v
l
%
\
'/h
(harLej
lonejmgan
All you have to do is to collect the wrappers
from Rexona Soap until you have 24, and for -
ward them to Rexona Proprietary Limited,
Sydney, at any time, be'ore the 31st March,
1930, and a pair of these beautiful Silk Stock-
ings will be sent to you by return post.
Remember to mention the size and shade you
desire, and don’t forget to enclose your name
and address.
-
sa
RS29UL


TecalemiT
LUBRICATING
GUNS
55*?.
Any machine can he fitted
for a feu) pence per point
with Tecalemit Lubrication.
YOU SAVE MONEY
in man hours, lubricant and renewals by so doing.
TECALEMIT SERVICE STATIONS:
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street Perth
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street Adelaide
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty., Ltd., Bateman Street Melbourne
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street Sydney
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street Brisbane
Factory Representative: Mr. JAMES THORNELL, 312 Pitt Street, SYDNEY'.
TECALEMIT, LTD., Mitre House, Scrubbs Lane, London, N.W. 10., England.
Stuart Crystal is made by handr~slowly/ lovingly
and with masterly skill If the name STUART is
etched on a piece of glass that piece will delight you
all your days with its exquisite beauty. More, your
children and their children will share
your joy > with gratitude and pride in
your taste / knowing that they have
an authentic product ol Stuarts ol
Stourbridge.
mm
m
m
mm
BB
wm\
mm
mm
M
mmm
:■: ■■
English Hand=made Crystal
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Quiet —-Restful —Cool —Open to the Summer Sea Breezes. With Private Beach and Amphitheatre
Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
Tariff from 4£ guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’ trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines).
A, jTlllfe lllil' l&jP
vHMJlavour m
At dll good Hotels
and tobacconists
Special box prices on rajuesi
Wholesale Distributors
CRAIG &AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
dsa
Pen and Picture
Shadow Shows
For those who have never seen Nellie
Stewart in her most famous role there is
some compensation to be found in contem-
plating Dorothy Gish’s performance in “Nell
Gwyn” (First National). Equipped with
a new vamp technique consisting of three
actions repeated ad lib., she successfully
bewitches the susceptible Charles Two.
Something is needed to replace the person-
ality of the stage, and it is supplied by
the spectacle of the Gish girl wallowing in
the alleged luxury of the times, including
silver beds and nighties the very thought of
which would have given our rude foremothers
fits.
“The Letter” (Paramount) will come
queerly to anyone who has seen or read
Somerset Maugham’s play ; in fact, it is so
different that
the relation-
ship can be
ignored. Yet
it is a good
picture, and
in one re-
spect at least
—in directness
and avoidance
of a striking
artificiality—is
better than
the original.
A good deal
of the stage
play’s enter-
taining power
depends upon
the audience
being held in
suspense over
the wife’s ly-
ing concern-
ing the lover
she had mur-
dered. In the
picture she is
JEANNE EAGLES.
a liar from start to finish. In the
beginning- she is seen writing a letter
that would eventually have got her death or
a lifer had it not been bought with her hus-
band’s money by his lawyer and friend. She
is seen murdering her lover because he
admits that he would rather have his Chinese
mistress than herself, and the picture simply
goes on, with her lying brazenly through
the trial, to the end, where she. probably
tells the truth for once by screaming at the
decent chap who had committed the mistake
of marrying her that she still prefers the man
she murdered to him. The picture holds its
share of unnecessary detail in an attempt to
give the atmosphere of Singapore, but one
bit of that detail, a fight between a mongoose
and a cobra, is an entertainment in itself.
Interesting parallels might be made be-
tween the methods of Chinese producers and
those of such standard Hollywood goods as
“Beyond that Curtain,” the latest from the
Fox workshops. The Chinese producer uses
color to save his audiences the trouble of
thinking too hard about the inner nature
of his characters. Thus the,- A cove with the
blue face is the comedian, even if what he
says is not superlatively funny. The bloke
with half-white, half-black visage is a hesi-
tating Hamlet of a person. The chap with
the black countenance is impetuous, but
generous. His is the humble role of self-
sacrifice for another’s happiness. A mixture
of all the colors of the rainbow denotes
that the wearer is a scoundrel. If there are
any murders to be done to help along the
plot he is there to do them,, but he will
not be the one who is destined to lead the
beautiful heroine temporarily astray. The
person who is billed to do that has a
countenance of ghastly white touched up
with cerise. He is a bloodless and bowel-
less creature whom the lady will probably
marry because of his lascivious elegance of
manner. The bloke who is going to show
her the error of her ways and eventually
marry her has a face of flaming crimson.
Crimson denotes courage and fidelity. In
the Fox film above mentioned the faces of
the performers might just as well be painted
according to the Celestial prescription. You
know by his transparent expression that
Warner Baxter did not commit the murder,
although all the evidence points to him. You
know that Philip Strange has the brand of
Cain upon him, although his trousers are
better pressed and his society manners vastly
superior to those of Mr. Baxter. You know
that when lie marries Lois Moran and takes
her to India he will abandon her for a
native wench in the most inexcusable man-
ner. Ilis chin betrays him. Also you know
that a man with such kindly eyes as Gilbert
Emery, the titled sleuth from Scotland Yard,
can never be misled by any amount of con-
vincing evidence as to who committed tin*
crime and who “did the dirty” by the heroine.
“Beyond that Curtain” is a peregrinating
melodrama which covers a vast mileage to
no particular purpose, though the last scene
is striking. It is mainly notable for the
large number of extremely intelligible Britons
in the cast, these including Peter Gawthorne
and the Australian Montague Shaw.
“The Cocoanuts” (Paramount) is one of
the first talkies this column has listened to
in which the dialogue keeps the audience in
as continuous a state of laughter as the old
silent farce business. It is one of those
musicomedies in which George Gee, Frith and
such-like virtuosi of the slapstick used to
revel. The four Marx brothers are the chief
funmakers who amble through a plot as
flimsy as a politician’s promises. The music,
by Irving Berlin, is attractive, and Geo. S.
Kaufman’s book is smart, without exactly
being Gilbert and Sullivan
The Palette
The work of the late Alexander McClin-
tock, hanging at the Melb. Athenaeum, is pre-
war painting, but sincerity is never dated.
McClintoek's water-colors challenge compari-
son with those of any of the modern Aus-
tralian practitioners. A too-conscious striving
after the pictorial was his chief vice, but his
tine sensitiveness to Nature seldom failed him.
It is the fashion nowadays to praise the
draughtsmanship of painters, although
draughtmanship has nothing to do with
painting. One result has been to encourage
artists to see lines in Nature where they
should look for tone. Take the work of
Carlyle Jackson, on view at the Little Gal-
lery, Melbourne. Although Jackson is ob-
viously trying to render what he sees in the
proper tonal relationships he is so preoccu-
pied with another thing—the conception of
the scene as a black-and-white artist would
treat it—that the resultant picture is a mass
of discords. It is as if a sculptor started
out by moulding the skeleton of his subject—
and then left some of the bones protruding.
The Inky Way
John Hamilton is issuing a third edition
of Col. Tom White’s “Guests of the Un-
speakable.” No other Australian war book
has run past a second.
“Westlice”: “Imogen” (B. 16/10/’29) is
wrong: Jenkin isn’t chief of staff of Mel-
bourne Herald; E. G. Bonney sits in that
uncomfortable chair. Incidentally, Frederick
Howard, author of “The Emigrant” and
“Return Ticket,” has joined the Herald
staff, and Jack Hogan, the shipping man, has
been appointed advertising manager of the
Adelaide Advertiser, under Lloyd Dumas.
“C.Q.” : Incipient playwrights might take
note that the Australian Literature Society,
whose headquarters are at Chartres House,
Melbourne, is offering a fiver for the best one-
act play submitted by the end of March. The
prize is not large, but compared with the
usual emoluments of the Australian dramatist,
it is handsome. A man who has been writing
plays for 20 years without reward recently
got a cheque for 30s. on account of royalties
from Brisbane. He had it framed.
Gerald Dillon’s “Why Editors Regret,”
the half-crown booklet in which various
GERALD DILLON
editors and others
explain many
things that the
freelance journalist
and the would-be
press contributor
will find it very
profitable to know,
is now on the mar-
ket : it can be had
direct from the
publisher at Box
2876 N, G. P. 0.,
Sydney. Dillon,
whose portrait goes
with this, was
studying law when
the war-gong
sounded and he
went off with the
Inniskilling Dra-
goons. He never
went back to the
law, but, after his soldiering, took up news-
paper work and qualified to give the good
advice with which his book is packed.
A record of the 39tli Battalion is to be
added to the A.I.F. battalion histories in
which the memory of so many interesting
characters arid thrilling deeds is preserved.
Lieut. Patterson, D. 5.0., is at work on it.
He hopes to have the job finished before long ;
meanwhile, he is anxious to hear from old
soldiers who can help with pertinent facts.
ITis address is: Care of Stott and Hoare.
William-street, Melbourne, C.l.
“Lao-dali”: Theodore Tourrier, who
passed over in Melbourne recently, was the
author of one of the most successful literary
hoaxes of recent times. Nobody knew until
he died that he was the author of “A
Chinaman’s Opinion of Us and His Own
Country,” by H’wuy-Ung, a mandarin of the
Fourth Button. Hwuy-Ung was supposed
to have fled from China to Melbourne in
1899, and critics in London and New York
accepted the work as a genuine translation
of his letters by J. A. Makepeace, M.A., a
missionary. The Flowery Land has pro
duced a prolific crop of such hoaxes. English
religious circles were lashed to fury in 1911
by the publication of “A Chinese Appeal t>
Christendom concerning Christian Missions,"
by Lin Shao-yang. Lin, who claimed to b
a Chinaman educated at an English univer
sity, showed a devastating knowledge of th;
Higher Criticism. Actually, he was tha:
fine Buddhist scholar and English adminis
trator R. F. Johnstone, magistrate at W;
Hai-wei.
THE EDITOR REGRETS!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Editor regrets”
Not half so much as we
Poor souls who’send our dream ships out
Across the Inky sea.
What, timid hopes, what tender dreams
That superman upsets
And murders with the courteous words
“The Editor regrets!”
“The Editor regrets.”
I pray a kindly Fate
Will let my shade stand close to his
When, outside Heaven’s Gate,
Stern old St. Peter hands to him
H'is long, long list of debts.
He’s bound to hand it back and say
“The Editor regrets.”
“And thank you for submitting this,
But, really now, St. Peter,
The phrasing’s very stereotyped,
The writing should be neater!”
And when the Saint explodes “To Hell!”
In manner most upsetting,
Lost writing souls will grin to see
An Editor regretting!
VICTORIA.
A. M. MACDONALD.


NO CHANCE/
• DESPITE--
TARIFF INCREASES,
YOU STILL ENJOY
IN STATE EXPRESS
3335 THE SAME
WEIGHT, QUALITY:
SIZE AND PRICE
WHICH HAVE MADE
THESE GOLDEN LEAF
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
FIRST IN FAVOUR
AS THEY WERE FIRST
IN THE FIELD.
* V
C-J
9 *
u
r
State (xpress
Si
•«
■s
CIGARETTES
STILL SUPREME- AT
* 2042(i'|jb *


Repairs.
“Our Hands Make Good Arms”
Firearms sent C.O.D.
RELIABLE ENGLISH HAMMER GUNS
AT MODERATE PRICES.
The following Guns have been built to my
specifications to suit Australian conditions.
W ard & Son, 30in., £B/5/-; Holloway and
Naughton, 30in., £10; 32in. model, £lO/10/-
Special model, £l2/10/-; Marson, 32in.,
£ll/10/- ; Claborough and Johnston, 30in. and
32in., £l3; Bonehill, 30in. and 32in., £l2/10/-
All Guns both barrels full choke (except
Ward Gun) and chambered for 2sin. —some
3in.—cartridges. All post free.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
’Phone MA3540,
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
1438 Elizabeth Street (near Market
Street), Sydney.
“Fishing Tackle to Tackle Fishing.”
Delightful!
Cool!
I
Estradas Best
R®B
lager
KESCHS UMITtO
m*.
mm
W 4
There’s cheering and quenching
satisjaction in every bottle of
KSCW’S
RB
GENUINE LAGER.
and
DA
DINNER ALE.
Im
mm mm
wsm
When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike.
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
Bed
and
° re akfast
Tariff
tf desired
' Special tariff or inclusive terms.
H O
T
L
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel,” Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Phar Lap caused almost as big a stir in
the Flemington birdcage last Saturday as
the Prince of Whiles did on tin l occasion of
his visit. The stable bodyguard included a
helmeted policeman, and Harry Telford, the
owner-trainer, held whispered converse at
intervals with one of other of his assistants.
The atmosphere of apprehension communi-
cated itself to the people who craned their
necks to catch a glimpse of the chestnut in
his stall. After Phar Lap had been saddled
up he was moved to the walking enclosure,
with two men at his bridle; Telford and
the John Hop a few strides in the rear. To
complete the melodrama some miscreant
ought to have been intercepted in the act
of trying to use a dope needle on the gelding
from Sydney. Nothing of the kind happened,
and the trailing crowd ultimately dispersed
into the betting ring and the grandstands.
As a racehorse Phar Lap took Melbourne
by storm. Rumors that he had done insuffi-
cient work—endorsed, if not circulated, by
experienced trainers—were rife. Telford
scored a complete victory over his critics.
Phar Lap not only won the Derby with a
lot in hand, but lowered the record for the
race which Manfred established four year's
ago; 2min. 314 sec. was the time, and it
could have been substantially cut. Inciden-
tally, Jim Pike gave the younger generation
of jockeys a demonstration of how to ride
in classic events. Holding the favorite in
reserve for a drop on the pacemakers, Pike
took charge when fairly in the straight. He
swept away from Taisho and sat motionless
for the remainder of the journey. Carradale,
who finished gamely, cut Taisho out of second
money, but was two lengths behind Phar
Lap. Munro erred in pushing Taisho past
Pentheus at the half-mile; J. P. Arthur’s
gelding would have done better if ridden
behind. Pentheus punctured after surrender-
ing control. He is a good miler, but nothing
more.
Melbourne Stakes wagering opened with
Nightmarch at evens and High Syce at 5 to 4
against. Local partisanship brought the Caul-
field Cup hero into equal demand with the
Maorilander at 5 to 4, bookmakers-obtain-
ing fielding money from a stable plunge on
Winalot, who shortened from 15 to 1 to 6
to 1. All and sundry had imagined, the
Hotham Handicap to be Winalot’s mission,
but Joe Cook sprang a surprise, as
he had done at the opening of last year’s
V.R.C. Spring meeting. Winalot, despite
the artistry of Pike, finished a poor fourth.
Backers of Nightmarch wished that lie had
been on that stallion, whose challenge to
those in advance was not launched under
the most favorable conditions. For that
matter, ITigh Syce had none too good a run
in the last two furlongs; but Duncan rose to
the occasion. ITc had to punch High Syce
right out to. score by a neck from Mollison.
E. M. Pearce’s horse held on with surpris-
ing gameness, and vastly improved on his
display in the IV. S. Cox Plate at Moonee
V alley.
Duncan had previously annexed the
Maiden Plate on Lineage, a Spearhead filly
owned by D. D. Mackinnon, of Mackinnon
and Cox, thoroughbred stock salesmen —lie is
a relative of the V.R.C. chairman. Lineage
was always a firm favorite, but her price
(9 to 4 at the finish) was never as short
as that of Green Wave, the Maribyrnong
Plate winner. Green Wave made his juvenile
opponents look cheap, coming home two
lengths in advance of the penalised South
Aus. gelding Comic Song. Evens could be
got, but it was 10 to 9 on at barrier-rise.
Strange to say, all the Maribyrnong places
were filled by geldings, who, of course, will
be valueless when they have finished racing.
On his breeding lines (he is by Greenstead-
Adjie) Green Wave ought never to be more
than a sprinter; but you seldom can tell.
Old Amounis put up a sterling perform-
ance in the Cantata Stakes. The track being
as fast as lightning, those associated with
the son of Magpie reckoned that it was an
opportune time to plunge, and, though
Amounis had the steadier of 9st. 121 b., he
went out at 2 to 1 in a field of 15. How he
won, after being last five furlongs from
home, is something about which turf addicts
will talk enthusiastically for years to come.
Munro’s mount tackled what appeared to be
an impossible task, but came through glori-
ously. He mowed down the opposition, and
scored by nearly a length from Harry Hope’s
fast Adelaide horse Merab (15 to 1), Black
Duchess (15 to 1) being respectable third
Duchess (15 to 1) being a respectable third
badly served at the start.
Four absolute favorites and an- equal first
favorite had caught the judge’s eye, and book-
makers had little reason to gloat over the
downfall of Prince Viol (5 to 2) in the
1 l'otham Handicap, for the winner, Shadow
King (9 to 2),
was supported for
a small fortune by
his owner, F. E.
Shillabeer. If
Prince Viol bad
not been badly in-
terfered with he
might have been
first, instead of
third; he was sent
skittling to the
rear after going a
furlong. He made
a galiant run on
the extreme out-
side and failed by
only a head to
overhaul the second
horse, Harbinger
(12 to 1).
After the Derby
Phar Lap became
one of the hottest
Cup favorites on
record. This Page
—the first to pro-
claim liis excel-
lence, and to tip
him for the Cup—
had to hurry away to the printer before the
horses went to the post.
* * * *
For the remaining days:—
The Oaks: Lineage.
Linlithgow Stakes: Highland; next, Mol-
lisou.
Carnival Handicap: Blather.
Veteran Stakes: Kidaides.
C. B. Fisher Plate: Phar Lap.
Victoria Steeplechase: Brenda’s Son.
Williamstown Cup: Carradale.
sjc ijc ❖
James Barnes, owner of The Grindstone,
has got hold of a good horse in Starlike, a
four-year-old bay gelding by Satelles (sire of
the Sydney Cup winner Crucis) out of
Royal Time. Carrying Bst. 131 b., Starlike
(4 to 1) won as he liked from a big field
in a division of the Maiden Welter Handi-
cap at Roselxill on Wednesday. The judge
placed him eight lengths in front of the
second horse, Copper Coin, and lie ran the
seven furlongs in lmin. 26Jsec. Starlike
will be heard of again—probably at Christ-
mas time. The same may be said of Cleave,
who, after a slow start in the Flying Handi-
cap, for which she was a 7-to-4 favorite,
came through in fine style to beat Bonnie
Marjorie and Killarney comfortably in lmin.
13£sec. The Carrington Stakes may be
Cleave’s mission.
The Maoriland-bred Patadawn returned to
the winning list in the October Handicap.
King William was favorite, and the son of
Mountain King ran an excellent race, but
he just failed to give 111 b. to Patadawn, who
went out at 6 to 1, and was nicely ridden
by Parr. Don Moon w T as a good third. Bav-
acre (4 to 1) carried off the. Parramatta
Mile from unlucky little Loud Praise and
Franciscan, finishing full of running.
Rosehill form proved deceptive at Canter-
bury Park on Saturday. Bonnie Marjorie
ran horribly in the Flying Handicap, tor
which she was at evens with many book-
makers: little Ila Tait (8 to 1) was well
clear at the finish from Kala Moti and Black
Dina Known at “the ponies” as Curra-
wong, Ila Tait is an aged mare by Magpie—
Galtee Princess, a combination responsible
for several good winners. Bavacre (5 to 2)
was in an equally bad mood in the Oampsie
Handicap, wherein Golden Music (3 to 1),
who in the autumn was thought to be good
enough to pit against Limerick and Winalot
at w.f.a., had a win at last. He just got
there from Nan Kourgan (20 to 1).
Patadawn (2 to 1) was another disap-
pointment in the Canterbury Handicap.
King William (2 to 1), on the other hand,
galloped like the honest fellow lie is, but
he was fated to run second again (his third
in succession) to The Bulletin’s choice
Frances Cyllene (10 to 1), who is useful
on her day. Finch rode her a well-judged
waiting race in front.
:!= * * *
For Moorefield on Saturday:—
Maiden Three-year-old Handicap: Garri-
son.
Kogarah Stakes : Vanishing Lady.
Flying Handicap: Lady Canberra; next,
Goldminer.
Moorefield Handicap: Bavacre; next,
Nan Kourgan.
Carlton Mile: The Grindstone; next,
Factor.
=■: * *
There are some pretty good tliree-year-
olds in Brisbane this year. Comanche, who
ran fourth in the A.J.C. Derby and won the
Clibborn Stakes, was taken north for the
Queensland Derby, but was unequal to get-
ting a place, Bernfield, the second favorite,
winning easily from Lady Bine and Myles-
na-tCoppeleen in 2min. 35£sec. On the day
Comanche got away with the Clibborn Stakes
WHEN JONES LOST HIS HEAD.
FLAPPER BEGINNER: “Oh, how fortunate you had a string tied
to it!”
Bernfield made a one-horse race of the
Queensland Guineas. He is a brown colt
by Highfield (sire of Highland) out of
Breccia. Another for Mrs. Buxton?
•!* -I- “I-
“Chevroford”; In addition to the usual
influx per motor-car, steamer and railway,
visitors to Melbourne for the Cup poured
in by air in remarkable numbers. Such a
big demand for the new method of transport
was anticipated that Australian Aerial Ser-
vices held all the machines they could muster
in reserve for a last-minute rush to the
booking-office.
“Retired Urger” : The intrusion of femi-
ninity on the field of sport has often been
deplored in The Bulletin. I also desire
to protest. The case of a lady fined in
Auckland the other day for making a book
to tote odds in front of the machine itself ; s
particularly exigent. Certainly this occurred
at the Trots, where anything may happen,
but the fact that the lady was only shoved
back a fiver, though she was doing a roaring
business and had a young daughter pencil-
ling for her, fills me with a sense of injustice.
I tried the same game in the M.L. King
Country a few years ago. Our show had
gone bung, and Semiramis the lady snake
charmer—the snakes had all bunked it into
the bush in search of the tucker we couldn’t
buy them —acted as secretary. That both
Semiramis and myself were pretty rocky on
figures probably accounted for the fact that,
when the Maoris came round to collect on
the third, there was no money to pay out.
They turned me upside down and tried to
shake it out of me. What .happened to
Semiramis T don’t know. I’ve never seen
her since.
* * ❖ ❖
“Ike Mcßagg”: The pleasant winter for
our fraternity forecast by “Thormanby”
(B. 23/10/’29) is more than assured. The
Cambridgeshire, run at Newmarket over nine
furlongs, repeated the tradition of the Cesare-
witch, the winner being a 20-to-l shot hight
Double Life. The nag is a tliree-year-old
filly by Bachelor’s Double, a sire that is
getting a lot of winners of late in Britain.
The Tommies rubbed it in, too, for the second
and third horses, Va Toute and Palais
Boyal 11, started at 50’s and 18’s respec-
tively. Palais Royal won the event last year,
a hot favorite.
« :!: *
“Randwick”: Jimmy Munro is the latest
Australian jockey to carry on the traditions
of Woottou, Carslake, Bullock and others
who have figured prominently in English
and Continental racing. Munro is to ride
for Baron Oppenheim, of Germany, with a
retainer of £l5OO a year and a five per cent,
cut of prize-money. He will ride in England
as well as on the Continent.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
One of the poorest scraps ever seen in
Sydney was the Delaney-Waltier bout at the
Stadium; it consisted mainly of clinching
and ill-directed punches. The infliction
ended in the tenth, when Delaney, who had
been warned to keep his punches up, ripped
in a low left that sent his opponent (an
American) .squirming to the canvas. Delaney
was disqualified. Weights were even at 9st.
41b.
sy. t\i *
I'esek (13st. 9slb.) and Santel (13st.
11 lib.) wrestled for an hour without a spell
at Melbourne on Saturday night; then they
reverted to the orthodox rounds. There were
no falls during the first half of the show.
The second act had not gone far when
Santel called “Uncle” to a toehold. Santel
said he could not continue, and I’esek was
declared the winner.
The Ins and Outs
“Nark”; There are some exciting times
ahead of English cricket umpires. The
M.C.C. sub-committee which lias been con-
sidering changes in the laws has decided
not only to persevere with the larger-wicket;
experiment, but to amend the l.b.w. rule.
The new law which gives a batsman out
l.b.w. if he snicks a ball on to his pad in
a line with the wicket will have a trial
in next season’s county cricket. It was
originally proposed that a batsman be out
if any ball, no matter where pitched, would
have hit the wicket, in the ump.’s opinion, if
not obstructed by the pad. Out of con-
sideration for the breed of umpires it was
felt, that this was too provocative of homi-
cidal feelings on the batsman’s part, and the
proposal was thrown out.
* * * *
“Bramall Lane” : Herbert Sutcliffe, whom
Yorkshire has long elected to the place in
its heart occupied by George Hirst in other
days, took a benefit this season just past,
the historical battle between the Lancas-
trians and Yorkists providing the occasion.
The weather was villainous, and attendances
suffered accordingly. Nevertheless, the York-
shire and England opening batsman was
handed a cheque for £3OOO, subscriptions
from all over England and from sources far
outside swelling the total to that desirable
amount.
s|: sj: S.:
“Iconoclast” : Those folk who are always
growling about the deadly sameness of
modern cricket might find relief in reviving
some of the customs of the long ago. I have
just been reading a contemporary account
of a game played, at Walworth, England,
for 1000 guineas a side between an eleven
of one-legged Greenwich pensioners and one
made up of one-armed warriors from the
famous hospital. Tremendous interest was
taken in the match, and a return game for
the same stakes ended in a wild riot, in
which many people were seriously hurt. The
one-legged men won both games, and cur-
iously enough started favorites in the betting.
(Continued on, page 41.)
The Kangaroos gained the most meritori-
ous win of their tour to date by defeating
the strongest of the Lancashire clubs, Old-
ham, by 18-10, after the home side had led 7-0
at half-time. A wet ground and greasy ball
made the victory all the more creditable.
Oldham had 3 wins to 1 over previous Aus-
tralian League sides.
“Stretcher”: Sydney rowing men are get-
ting more and more disinclined to utilise the
congested Parramatta or the upper reaches
of the harbor for their training spins.
The latest to seek fresh waters is Mosman,
whose four-oar crew is now doing its training
on the upper waters of Middle Harbor,
where the motor-launch does not upset nor
the dead cat bob up and smell. It is not
•unlikely that the club, now housed in Mos-
mau Bay, may transfer itself holus-bolus to
Middle Harbor in the near future, digging
in somewhere near the easily accessible Spit,
and its example may be followed by other
North Shore rowing organisations. .
WHAT WON?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Ears are strained and wireless valves are elec-
trified from the Orkneys to Erromanga, from Singa-
pore to Dawson City, to catch the name of the
winner of the Melbourne Cup.”—Sun.
1 doubt, he said, the storm-tossed Orkneys
care
What won the Cup. They’ve lots of
homelier biz
To occupy them. And I dunno where
In the wide world this Erromanga is.
At Singapore and Dawson some may be
Mildly intrigued about it, so to speak,
But if you’d vision real expectancy
Try Wantabadgery or Bummers’ Creek.
Here is one day, he said, for hearts to throb
As one till the momentous news goes
round,
From W.valkatchem unto Iron Knob,
From Thirsty Island to King George’s
Sound.
One question in all eyes—scant need for
speech—
From Broome to Bega, and from Torres
Straits
To that inhospitable southern beach
Where famished Gabbett dined upon his
mates.
One query from Taree to Tanami,
Wyndham to Irish Lords, and on the train
That spans the desert as it passes by
Forrest and Cook on the Nullarbor Plain.
One thing to learn, he said, where’er we
are,
From Adaminaby to Dwellingup,
From Kosci’s snows to torrid Marble Bar,
From Darwin to the Bight: What won
the Cup?
N.s.w.
MID FORD.


YOU
l»« NO
MORE
or
VST.
mm
nuiv-iuiuv
Made in Australia,
than feranyotber make
Remember this when you buy a
tyre. Remember, that in both
tread and tyre body. . . .the two
main parts of a tyre. ... the
superiority of Goodyear Tyres
can be demonstrated, and is proved
by the fact that more people, the
world over, ride on Goodyear
Tyres than on any other make.
And remember, always, that
Goodyear Tyres and Tubes, made
in Australia, cost no more than
any other make.
ASK YOUR GOODYEAR DtAltß fOR A DIMONSTRAIION ON HIS SUPIRTWIST CORD MACHINf


POST FREE.
Boys* and Youths 1
Black Yearling’
Shoe.
7 x 9
10 x 13
lx 5
Tan Yearling 17-
Stout
Oxford
10/11
11/9
13/9
extra.
Iflacnaught
Shoe Stores Gtd. <U
c 13a
MAIL ORDERS 135 KING STREET
LEADS , TH6WSS» ! W* B
ss
excellence. 1 operate —due ,
a ll Viand pumps jo wbicb
a double-actmg upward an
draws iu air * “ The inner big
downward ■* doeS t be res •
pressure cyn Mantt/ acture«.
patentees and Sole Q ETDm
WILLIAM TURNERS dj England.
EyrC VnoleSal6
procurable i gouses.
fu
THE
RENRUT
QUADRUPLE
Price, 45/-
(With Gauge,
5/- extra.)
If unable to obtain
write to our Factory /
Representative: Mr.
JOHN ARNOLD.
GP.O. Box 71, Mel-
bourne, Australia.
Will fully inflate the average motor tyre
one minute. _
A
LIKE To KNOW some n
WINNERS FOR TOMORROW,
Bert :°ask John,the wajteq’ 1
(< , »,
<Sert *. Does he know something?
Bert:"vmell, he <3E*rs plenty
GOOD TIPS.”
The Ins and Outs
The Marylcbone C.C. team won its open-
ing match against Westralia at Perth by
7 wickets. Westralia opened with 185; Hor-
rocks contributed 51, while Allom, a-medium
fast trundler, had the best English bowling
figures, 4-57. The early English batsmen
collapsed on a rain-damaged wicket, but,
thanks to Bowley, who retired injured to
come back and score 79 n. 0., the side totalled
191; fast-bowler Halcombe took 3 for 85.
Westralia’s second innings realised only 127
(Woolley 4 for 34). A brilliant 64 not out
by Duleepsinghi was the feature of Eng-
land’s second innings of 123 for 3.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The N.S.W. team to open
the _ Sheffield Shield season with the match
against Queensland in Brisbane shows a
commendable tendency on the part of the
selectors to go looking for something new.
This is offset by the inclusion of such bowlers
as Mailey and’ Dupam. Mailey's return to
the field has elements of farce. The in-
clusion of R. 11. Bettington, a better bosey
howler than Mailey to-day and an infinitely
better bat at all times, has met with univer-
sal approval. The rest of the team, with
Bertie Oldfield as skipper, practically picked
itself.
❖ *
“Gabba”: The Board of Control selectors
have some travelling in front of them be-
tween this and the date of the trial match
Australia v. The Rest, on December 6. It
is intended that the selectors shall visit all
the States save Westralia, which will select
its own candidates. R. L. Jones, the N.S.W.
member, has gone up to Brisbane for the
opening match of the Sheffield season, while
Dr. Dolling and Jack Ryder will be m Syd-
ney for the N.S.W. match against the Eng-
lishmen, and will possibly go on to Brisbane.
A= X X X
“Hotham”: If club performances are any
criterion, veteran Don Blacltie is still the
best of the Victorian bowlers. Ever since
the opening of the season, the St. Kilda old
’un has been going through the opposing
batsmen, and it is a certainty he will be
one of the first bowling picks for the Sheffield
Shield side. As to his chances for the next
Australian Eleven, few even in Victoria give
him much hope, unless he excels himself.
* * * *
“Moore Park”: The hungriest Australian
cricket addict should have no reason to
complain of the fare provided for lum dur-
ing the coming four or five years. Apart
from the Gilligan visit to this country, the
Australian Eleven will be in England next
year. They will hardly have returned before
the West Indians wilThave descended on the
Commonwealth, and the next season will see
the South Africans come The season
after that the Englishmen will be here again,
and so on, da capo. It looks as if a lot of
our amateur cricketers will have little time
for their ostensible means of livelihood for
many a long day to come.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Brisbane has been unfortunate
in the matter of its cricket grounds. The
Brisbane C. G., started in the 1890’s by
private subscription to give the Q.C.A. a
home of its own, has long been abandoned
to the ponies and the tin-hare. As a con-
sequence, the big matches have to be played
on the Exhibition Oval, owned by the
National Association, which is the equivalent
of the N.S.W. Royal Agricultural Society,
A heavy rent has to be paid, and a con-
siderable commission on the takings for big
matches. To do the Nat. Ass. justice it
realises its obligations. The ground is an
ideal one from the spectators’ point of view,
and this season the association is, spending
some hundreds in getting the playing area
into better trim for cricket than ever. The
pitch itself is one of the best in Australia,
though, when Noo South was doing its darn-
edest to have the Brisbane Test-match re-
stored to Sydney last season, Sydney pro-
pagandists classed it as a cross between the
Bog of Ireland and the Sahara Desert.
* x * *
“Spin”: Tennis under electric light is a
commonplace, but night cricket under the
same conditions is something new in Aus-
tralia, though in London there are oppor-
tunities for indoor practice under artificial
light during the winter. Western Suburbs,
one of the Sydney district clubs, is going to
try the experiment out of doors at Pratten
Park next season. The practice wickets will
be lit with flood-lights, and the balls are to
be whitened with Duco. Whether this sort
of practice will be much preparation for
cricket in daylight with an ordinary ball is
a matter for argument.
x x x x
“Shrewsbury” : That reference to the keen-
ness of W. G. Grace in the matter of
cricket law (B. 16/10/’29) reminds me. In
the long ago, Bobby Abel, with the Surrey
team playing Gloucestershire at Bristol, told
the Old Man that, though he had made a
century on every big cricket ground in Eng-
land, he had never clicked at Bristol. At
lunch on the second day, the little Surrey
pro. was 96 n.o. Said W.G.: “The first ball
I’ll give you after lunch, Bobby, ’ll be a full
toss on the leg side; that’ll give you the
IUO you want.” It was as W.G. promised.
The ball came along and Bobby banged it
to square leg —into the safe hands of the
fieldsman whom W.G. had specially shifted
into position.
-.|: * x x
“Aigburth”: No need for “Richmond” and
others to raise hypocritical wails about the
cash payments received by Australian
cricketers, who persist in regarding them-
selves as amateurs (B. 16/10/’29). Since
the very beginning of cricket payment of
“amateurs” lias been a recognised if veiled
practice. It is notorious that Alfred Mynn,
a hero of the early Victorian period, was
thus tided over difficulties, and on more than
one occasion. As early in his career as
1879, W. G. Grace was presented with £l5OO,
and the receipts from a testimonial match
were to have been added to this. The doctor
had his generous moments, however, and
asked that the considerable sum be handed
to the professional who had clean bov/led
him oftenest. The brass went to Alfred
Shaw, of Notts who had up to then skittled
the champion 20 times.
x x * *
“Tenakoe”: Admirers of that brilliant
Maoriland batsman Arthur Daere have been
wondering how he has been getting on since
he sailed for England to qualify as a profes-
sional for Gloucestershire. He has been put-
ting in the necessary time in club cricket,
and an English exchange is eloquent about
his showing in a match at Polegate between
the local team and Bristol Wayfarers, with
whom Dacre was touring. He put up a
record for the ground with 156 n. 0., this
including 6 sixes and 20 fours. The Maori-
lander is certainly a rungetter, and when
lie becomes associated with Walter Ham-
mond in the Gloucester side, the, county 'if
the Graces may regain something of its old-
time effulgence.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot”: Though now classed as a
veteran, Jim Willard is still in the front
rank of Australian tennis players, as he
proved by his decisive defeat of Jack Craw-
ford in the final of the Metropolitan singles
championship in Sydney, when he allowed
the youngster a mere four games in the two
sets’played. Though Jim has never figured in
a Davis Cup fixture, there are less unlikely
things than that he may, for he is one of
the most formidable doubles players in Aus-
tralia as well as a top-notch solo exponent.
“Bumpkin” : Patricia Dawson, the woman
coqch whom the South Yarra Tennis Club
imported, is a modernist. She proposes to
instruct her pupils in cuts and drives to
musie. According to the lady, extraordinarily
good results have been obtained by these
methods in the Cold World, the melody en-
couraging the player to adopt rhythmical
movements. Still, Brookes, Wilding and
others reached front rank without it.
* x * *
“Bumpk”: Gordon Lum (B. 30/10/’29)
has really fallen foul of China’s new-found
nationalistic spirit. He went some time ago
to the Flowery Land, where he entered for
the Chinese national championship. Doubts
were expressed as to the propriety of this
gaud being taken out of the country by a
mere interloper from Australia, and the ver-
nacular press joined in the debate with
ardor. Lum was billed to play a Singa-
pore champion in Shanghai, and the com-
mittee announced that the contest would
form part of the struggle for the premier-
ship. When. Lum unexpectedly wiped the
lawn with his opponent, and the committee
found that the game had nothing to do with
the championship because it wasn’t part of
a tournament, the air was rent with recri-
minations and exploding monosyllables. Ah
Sin is desperately keen on the new athleti-
cism, but the idea of the game for the game’s
sake is as strange to him as it is to some
of our own sportsmen.
x x x x
“Top Spin”: The N.S.W. tennis heads
got a dreadful shock the other day when
they discovered that the inter-State matches
with Queensland in Sydney would clash with
the match between N.S.W. and the English
Eleven at the Sydney Cricket Ground, be-
ginning on November 22. Hasty endeavors
were made to have the date altered, but
the Bananalanders intimated that as they
were engaged to take part in the Victorian
championships a few days later no change
was possible. The date for the cricket fixture
lias been public for some months, and that
the N.S.W. officials should have overlooked
the possibility of the counter-attraction is
characteristic of them.
X X X X
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Matrimony seems
to be catching among leading female expo-
nents of tennis. The latest to follow the
example of Helen Wills and Australia’s
Daphne Akhurst is the Indian championette
Jenny Sandison. This is the young person
whom American Elizabeth Ryan declined to
meet, for the All-India championship, it
being unkindly suggested at the time that
Elizabeth was scared stiff by the local girl’s
reputation. She has never appeared at
Wimbledon, or in any of the big European
fixtures. Since Helen Wills is not available
this year, the Australian authorities might
do worse than invite a visit from Jenny.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hotham”: When Sloan Morpeth was in
this country in August he announced that
he had a strong desire to settle in Australia.
The opportunity was not long in coming,
for the Commonwealth Golf Club of Mel-
bourne offered him the job of secretary.
As Morpeth is secretary of one of the
Auckland clubs, the billet was right in
his line, and he has accepted. Winner of
last year’s M.L. Open, and runner-up in
the Australian amateur event in Adelaide
recently, Morpeth will be a powerful addi-
tion to the already formidable Victoria golf-
ing contingent.
x x x *
“Cleek”: Fred Popplewell’s victory in the
recent N.S.W. professional championship was
an outstanding illustration of the virtue of
recklessness in a tight corner. The Aus-
tralian Club professional was well and truly
down to his opponent, Frank Eyre, at the
21st, being 5 in the rear. He decided to go
for the gloves, and, throwing caution to the
winds, caught his opponent to win one up
at the 37th. This is Popplewell’s second win
in the event, the first having been in 1928,
when the contest was inaugurated ; he also
won the Australian Open last year.
X * * *
“Marino”: Frank McDowall, the Mt.
Osmund (S.A.) pro. was recently badly
cracked up in a motor-cycle accident. His
brother golfers rallied to his support, and a
good sum was collected for his benefit as the
result of a big bogey competition at the Koo-
yonga club. This was added to by a four-
ball exhibition match at Mt. Osmuird, in
which the leading professionals, Rufus
Stewart, Fergus McMahon, W. ITarvey and
J. McLachlan took part.
:*c * * :H
“Hamilton” : Queensland’s new Golf Coun-
cil, which is now in control of the game in
Bananaland, held its first meeting the other
day, and ratified its constitution, thus set-
ting an example to N.S.W., which is still
struggling towards the same goal. One of
the council’s most important undertakings
in the coming by-and-by will be the dis-
patch of a Queensland team to Christchurch
(M.L.) next Easter to take part in the Kirk-
Windeyer Cup tourney. Under a unified con-
trol, Queensland’s chronic inability to send
official sides abroad should be overcome, once
and for all.
* X X *
“Baffy”: The golf season officially ended
last week, though there will be no cessation
in the unending round of endeavor
against adverse circumstances which is
the lot of so many addicts. In the
big stuff, Victoria can justly claim the
honors for the year, having won both
the Australian open and amateur titles,
N.S.W. took the women’s championship in
Adelaide, and South Australia retained the
professional blue ribbon, while the Kirk-
Windeyer remained with the N. S. Welsh-
men, who won it from Maoriland at Welling-
ton, tlfe previous year.
x x x x
“Iconoclast”: I should have thought it
impossible to add to the foolishness of golf,
but the announcement of a new golf club
in an American journal devoted to the great
Mumbo Jumbo indicates that it can be done.
This club is so equipped that it emits a
sharp musical note when the ball is hit cor-
rectly. The next step I imagine will be a
club which, when the ball is not hit cor-
rectly, as is usually the case, will give vent
to a string of appropriate expressions. This
would be a special boon to associate mem-
bers, though I am bound to admit some of
the dears do very well when driven back on
their own resources.
❖ H*
“Bad Li” : Hearing, no doubt, of the recent
strike at the Royal Sydney, the Chinese cad-
dies of Shanghai downed bags the other day
as a.protest against acting as the “slaves and
running dogs of Imperialists,”, as one of them
put it. There is a suggestion of the tin-
hare, now very popular in Shanghai, in the
phrase. However, the gesture came to
nought, White Russian refugees immediately
taking the jobs. They have, of course, been
declared “black,” but they are drawing the
money, which is the important point.
# $ ❖
“Spoon”: Though schoolgirl golfers are
prominent enough in Britain one does not
hear much of them here. An exception
has turned up in Doreen Ashton, a 15-year-
old golferette, of Wollongong (N.S.W.), who
won the local associates’ championship the
other day, defeating Mrs. R. E. Smith,
the well-known Manly player, by 5 and 3. The
winner played strikingly correct golf, rarely
getting off the line, while her length from
the tees was remarkable for so young a
player.
(Continued on next page.)


ii
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest value in refined
hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
Spencer Street, Melbourne.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6;
and meals optional or weekly from £4/4/-. Reduc-
tions to sporting clubs, etc. Please write for detailed
tariff card. Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is sufficient
• address.
HOW A SHILLING GROWS
One shilling per week deposited regularly in the Common-
wealth Savings Bank will, in 23| years, reach a total of £lOO
—provided that the deposits are regular and the interest is
allowed to remain in the Savings Account.
Here, however, is the real point. Of the £lOO mentioned in
this example, you deposit only a little over £6l. The Common-
wealth Savings Bank provides the balance in compounded
interest — over one-third of the total.
Idle money earns no profit. Set your shillings to earning as
well as accumulating.
(Iforantonwcaltb Savmcs JBankof Bustralia
(i Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
7he centre of Queens Zands
' ct/'shngu/shed Soc/oZ Life.
%o\t\
RDTQfI
BRISBANE
dsa
Magnificent S 5 ai i-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
Car and Cycle
“Chevroford”: One of the bills of the
McPherson Ministry that will have to await
the solution of another election aims at
control of the sportive gentlemen who use
the public highways for motor speed-tests.
As these people openly boast of having
travelled between Sydney and Melbourne at
speeds averaging 60 m.p.h. or more, they
are technically liable, on their own confes-
sions, to prosecution. No prosecution is
ever lodged, however, so the ordinary driver
never knows when a wheeled projectile may
come at him round the corner at a pace
that makes self-preservation merely a matter
of good fortune.
* * * *
“Pore du Chemin”: H. Beitli, with a
mechanic, has driven from Melbourne to
Sydney in 10i hours. Once more there were
no casualties among the pedestrian popula-
tion, but this extraordinary immunity cannot
be expected to last for ever. The car was
a workaday Chrysler, and the hourly average
was 56J miles. # *
“Disc Clutch”: . A party of prominent
Sydney motorists visited Goulburn (JN.p.WO
last week to inspect the dried-up mud fore-
shores of Lake George. It is hoped that
the lake will provide a natural speedway
suitable for long-distance speed races like
that staged annually as the Victorian Grand
Prix on Phillip Island. A circuit permit-
ting a one-way run of at least 200 miles is
being sought. # * *
“Shep”: “Differential” (B. 16/10/’29), in
announcing America’s, entry into the tront-
wheel-drive field, which he states Fiance
and Britain have already exploited, should
not lose sight of the fact that it was an
Australian who actually designed and built
the world’s first front-wheel-drive car tor
the Americans, who at that time didn t
realise its possibilities. It’s many years
since the late G. Hoskins, of Lithgow fame
had dreams of the front-wheel drive, and
went ahead with the idea till he exhibited a
car in the States. A breakdown m health
was all that stood between him and ultimate
success. ,
“Chelsea”: Dirt-track motor-cycling is
still booming in England. The star rider
is the young Queenslander Frank Arthur,
who has cleaned up everything in sight dur-
ing his two seasons in Britain, and netted
£6OOO at the same time. He is now on Ins
wav back to Australia for a spell, but pro-
poses to return to the Cold Country next
year. According to Arthur, three Australian
cyclists, including another Queenslander m
Max Grosskreutz, have gone to Buenos
Ayres to establish the Australian sport there,
and Arthur himself is thinking of . giving
it a flutter at Singapore, where the tin-hare
is becoming a weariness of the flesh.
“Sprocket”: Unique of its kind for Aus-
tralia was the jubilee of the Sydney Bicycle
and Motor Club, celebrated with feasting
and libation last week. When the thing was
formed the internal-combustion car had not
been thought of, and the club went about
its occasions on the old high-wheeled bicycle.
Several of the celebrants had been cormecred
with it for over 40 years, one of them,
A. W. Crane, being a foundation mem-
ber. They had an interesting story to tell
of the abandonment of the high-wlieeler for
the “safety,” the growth of the pneumatic
tyre, and the gradual coming of the power-
driven cycle and car to the standard of
to-day.
* * * *
“Kick Starter”: A surprise was provided
for the spectators at Brisbane Velodrome
the other night when a local amateur
cyclist, Dick Marshall, broke the world’s
record for three miles, motor-paced. H'e
went out to lower the Queensland figures,
and did this by nearly 15 seconds. His time
for the ride was 4min. 31sec., or 6 seconds
better than the previous best by an amateur,
Vincent Madonna’s 4min. 37sec.
Miscellaneous
“Backwoodsman” : The laws of bowls are
almost as tortuous as those governing. that
other ancient institution, golf. Eminent
authorities in Sydney were thrown into a
fever of dispute the other day when an
enraged skip, grabbed a bowl which had been
sent down by one of his team contrary to. his
instructions and threw it into the ditch.
There has been much argument about it,
but the rule is clear; it says that a
bowl onqe delivered must not be wilfully
touched or intercepted. If this is done by any
player, the end shall be taken as finished, and
points equal to the number of bowls on the
opposing side must be credited to the
offender’s opponents.
* * * *
“Jack Hamlin”: Quite a lot of individuals
have quitted this vale of tears suddenly be-
cause of less extraordinary coincidences
than that reported of a bridge game in Lon-
don. The dealer was George du Cros,
and the other players were Sir Charles
Sykes, A. G. Rossiter and Sir Charles
Mandelberg. Du CroS had the first squeak,
and found he held 13 diamonds. Rossiter
Held 13 clubs and Mandelberg 13 hearts.
Sykes had the 13 spades and seven tricks
in that suit. Three are prominent financiers
and the fourth is a Yorkshireman. It was
the Yorkshireman who held the 18 spades.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: Third time does it! For
years Dr. Peltzer has been trying to visit Aus-
tralia. Twice the trip was verboten by the
German athletic authorities, the excuse on
the last occasion being that the tour
might interfere with the German representa-
tive’s chances at the Amsterdam Olympiad.
Permission has now been granted, and the
doctor will come on to Australia from the
Philippines, and go home by way of America.
Though a comparative veteran, the German
is still a great runner. His half-mile world’s
record of lmin. 51 3-ssec.. made in the
English championships in 1926, still stands,
as do his figures for the 1000 metres. 2min.
25 4-ssec. put up at Cologne two years
ago - *
“Altcar”: The iniquity of chasing the hare
out of season (B. 23/10/’29) lias not been
scotched, as “Long Dog” suggests. Infinitely
to their discredit, a special meeting ot
N.S.W. National Coursing Association mem-
bers over-ruled the decision of the com
mittee, and decided to extend the now
closed season as far as hare-chasing ana
betting on the tracks are concerned, which
means that the mean and shady game will
be pursued all the year round. It the persons
responsible took care to see that the tame
hares they keep to be butchered to make a
punter’s holiday were confined to one sex or
another, the situation would not be so dis-
tasteful to decent sportsmen. H'ares are hard
to come by, and the stock is recruited from
both sexes. As a result, instead of the lady
hare being allowed the respite that the game
laws and those of legitimate coursing permit
her during the breeding season, she will have
to face the hounds, whatever her handicap.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: Walter Lindrum won his
match against Clark McConacliy at Glasgow
by 22,694 to 21,200. In doing so he again
passed the four-figure mark, putting up a
Scottish record with 1330. McConacliy was
little inferior to his conqueror, and the pair
are going to shake up the English champions
during their tour. Both the visitors opened
a two-week match against home players last
week, Lindrum taclding Willie Smith. at
Newcastle, and McConachy going up against
the English champion, Joe Davis, at Glas-
gow. Both established a good lead over
their opponents in the opening stages.
* * * *
“Long Rest”: The presence in England of
Walter Lindrum and Clark McConacliy has
given some needed publicity to the conditions
under which the alleged billiards “champion-
ship” is conducted. This is entirely under the
control of the billiard-table makers, with the
result that all the prominent players are tied
up to the various firms. Thurstons will handle
the contest this year, and as a consequence
Smith, Lindrum and McConachy, who are
contracted to another firm, Burroughs and
Watts, are not likely to be allowed to play.
FRANK WOOLLEY, the famous English
left-hander, now in Australia with A. H.
H. Gilligan’s eleven.
Press and public are asking for a com-
promise, one suggestion being to alternate
the weekly championship play on the tables
of the two rival firms. Otherwise it is likely
that the tourney will be reduced to a farce,
with Tom Newman and Joe Davis the only
two competitors.
$ * * *
“Splash” : That eminent amateur swimmer
Arne Borg has had his laurels dimmed or
his light smirched, or whatever it is that
happens on these occasions. In Tokio last
year Borg swam a 1500-metres “inter-
national” scratch race in 21min. 1 4-ssec.
This has now been bettered by a 14-year-old
Jap named Schozo Makino, who knocked over
17sec. off the Swede’s figures. However, the
eclipse promises to be only temporary, for
Borg is sure to put up a new record. It is
his habit.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.” : Dick Eve, Olympic diving
champion in Paris in 1924, is applying for
reinstatement as an amateur., He was outed
under the fool rule that anyone taking on
the management of a bathing establishment
becomes professional. In England and
America this does not follow unless the
manager takes part in coaching or swimming
for cash considerations. Eve was engaged in
neither of these activities when he was dis-
qualified. A former appeal was referred to a
postal vote, and though there was a majority
in Eve’s favor the necessary two-thirds
endorsement was not forthcoming, inter-State
jealousy notoriously playing its part in the
verdict!
J. HOLT, the Victorian trainer who scored
with the Queensland-bred High Syce
in the Caulfield Cup.
“Hotliam” : There are lashings of brass in
Melbourne League football. The distribution
by the League of its share of the 1929
receipts shows that each club received £5Ol,
and that does not include the money pouched
by the clubs themselves as their share of the
gates. The League collected £9681, from
which, of course, the dividends for the clubs
have to be deducted; it retained £1517,
dividing the balance among various minor
football organisations, with the not horribly
extravagant allotment of £260 to charities.
* * # *
“Gate”: The N.S.W. Rugby League
stopped a facer the other day when its
cousin of Queensland told it to mind its own
business. The split between the Q.R.L. and
the powerful Brisbane League has disrupted
the professional game in the North, and the
N.S.W. crowd has been hovering on the
outskirts of the battle like a distracted old
hen watching its brood of ducklings taking
to water. Not long ago it invited a con-
ference between the warring Queensland
bodies with a view to a compromise, since,
with the prestige gained by the Rugby Union
last season, the outlook for the professional
game in Bananaland is murky. The liaison
between the N.S.W. and Queensland branches
of the gate-money game has been strained
for years. One of the chief reasons for the
trouble is the continued assumption by the
Ma State that it is the whole team and the
little yellow dog under the waggon.
$ * # *
W. J. B. Sheehan, the Sydney University
and Waratah five-eighth, returned to Aus-
tralia last week. When his side finished
their tour of Britain and France, “Bill”
remained behind to take a post-graduate
course in medicine. Though he was not
considered for the England cap, which so
many thought he deserved, he played a lot of
high-class football with Richmond Club and
his hospital. In addition, he was a member
of the famous Barbarians, a side made up
of university and public-school players, which
specialises in tours of Britain and the Con-
tinent.
* * *. *
“Cash Amateur”; The gilt continues to
be licked off the amateur-status gingerbread.
Numerous “revelations” by renegade ama-
teurs have been capped by a report just
issued by Dr. Savage, of the Carnegie founda-
tion, who has just completed a three years’
investigation of the position in the States
and Canada. In America, out of 100
universities investigated, 75 subsidised their
athletes, 50 per cent, of the university foot-
ballers throughout the country being paid in
cash. There was a lively trade in college
athletes at scheduled rates, save for the more
outstanding, who could write their own
tickets. The Canadian atmosphere was much
more healthy; the trading system was non-
existent there.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Quorn”: The railway to Centralia has
proved a great boon to cattle-breeders. In
a few months 6000 beasts have been trucked
from Stuart; most of them have been, rested
for a day or two at Quorn, where baled hay
is on the menu. It costs about £5 a head
to land and sell the stock in Adelaide, but
prices up to £36 have been obtained.
* * * *
“A.H.S.”: “Lindfield’.s” rope doesn’t haul
in the prize (B. 23/10/’29). James Miller
and Co., of Melbourne, have made a coir
cable 38 inches in circumference.
* * * *
“Yen”: The advance of aviation is
gratifying enough in its way, but the
frequent visits to country towns of aero-
plane owners offering a “joy ride straight
for 10s. and a spiral dive for 30s. are
unwelcome to storekeepers. Our local
fruiterer swears that the next time he hears
of a certain longstanding debtor ot his
“going up” it'll mean murder. .Nearly
every penny the pilot takes goes out ot
town. , *
“Phil Atelist”: There has been an un-
precedented rush for the W.A. Centenaij
stamp, the cause of the hurry or stampede
being the announcement that one out ot
every 960 of the issue is defective. -Ibese
little accidents will occur in the best
printeries. A further announcement that
the stamps bearing this aberration will
be of no value carries no weight with
true-blue collectors. When the philatelists
held an exhibition recently in Melbourne the
public goggled their eyes at one specimen
which was priced at £5OOO merely on the
grounds that the watermark was upside doivu
on it. _ ;!: *
“ Tggins”: Barberterias (B. 23/10/ 29)
are by no means new. Twenty years ago
there were places in Brisbane where yon
could get the use of razor, soap, brush, towel
and mirror for twopence a day or a shilling
a week. These joints were popular with
young bloods of the period, but gradually
they disappeared.
* * * *
“One of the Bled”: Broken Hill unions
are not above helping the boorjoice to keep
up the cost of living. A man w T ho travels
for a Sydney department store arrived 12
months ago, but found sample-rooms unob-
tainable —the traders saw to that. He came
back a week or so ago and engaged a room
at the Trades Hall. This time the Shop
Assistants’ Union intervened, and he had
again to take away his sample-cases un-
opened.
1 Mr « * *
“Tomb”: An organised offensive against
hoop pine is in progress. Douglas fir is
being pushed on the market to the detriment
of the Australian timber, and importers of
Oregon are striving to force up prices of
hoop pine, so as to enable them to undersell
local producers and still make handsome
profits. And it was recently alleged that
hoop pine imparts a taint when used for
butter-boxes. This is untrue, but as a pine-
tree cannot sue for libel, the authors of the
lie go unpunished. Hoop pine is Australian,
it gives employment to Australians, and for
all-round quality is superior to any other
pine in the world.
* * * *
“Tim Berr”: At the time Captain Cook
was noting the quaint habits of the kanguru
about 350,000,000 acres _of Australia and
the Speck was covered with forest. To-day,
according to the Commonwealth Forestry
Department, the timbered area is only
19,500,000 acres, and the country is spend-
ing £5,000,000 a year on imported softwood
and another six millions on paper and pulp
for paper. According to Dane Poole, Aus-
tralia will either have to commence a big
re-afforestation scheme right away or resign
itself to a perpetual payment of tribute to
countries that have had more forethought.
jjc :Js H*
“Wig”: Something new in the way of
compensation claims is the £44,000,000 case
brought against the Crown by the Civilian
War Claimants’ Association. Everything
seems to have been included, from the lost
affections of husbands to the cost of sending
extra food and clothing to prisoners in Ger-
many. The lawyers .should make a good
thing out of it, but no one else is likely to
do so. English law has long denied the
liability of the Crown in such circumstances.
Mi * * *
“Cairneross” : J. It. Cramsie, who hds been
going into the matter for the Greater Bris-
bane Council, has recommended the establish-
ment of municipal abattoirs in Brisbane,
and suggests the acquisition of the Swift
works on the river opposite Pinkenba. The
Swift Co. was registered in Queensland in
1913, and a Federal Koyal Commission was
appointed the following year to consider it.
The Commission gravely decided that Swifts
had nothing to do with the American Meat
Trust. Then the war called attention else-
where.


A6AIN /
VICTORIOUS
> vN
f
t
v
%
* A
$
*
*v
$
%
Ip
i
e?
V
-w
mWM
*%§P 'J?
-is
o
as
P
1
&
&>
&
syces
.-.w
m
M
i
■ '■ [
3S
r-sx
903 gm
m
UJQ<-
smWM
ac
yjxt
rS.V'r:
&
m
XV
ar
m
r
MW
Av
£?•&&
J
SS
&
m
■AVS
'^A-vNf-sav
&S
sSS
££&
r-e
Iw
m
&
m
&£
i&
*c.
>.■
■■?■■?'
r.v^
¥*
<>**
£z<?
F>S:
'V/
w;
A?->
r 7
IS
f*
$
S#
/r>
/■A
VK
'Jfrv
AX
<iy
<4v
5®
j y.t
&
iVr
'M»M.s£'
'7i<£''
C "i £~-
> !?*
JgSf
aAs
,‘>£
-lift \
r- 'f
PREVIOUS RECORD
MELBOURNE TO SYDNEY
IN 10 HOURS-12 MINUTES
576 miles at an average speed of
56*47 miles per hour!
At 1 minute past 5 on Wednesday morning—October 30 —
Mr. H. J. Beitb left Melbourne in a Chrysler “72.” At 13
minutes oast 3 on the afternoon of the same day the Chrysler
was clocked in at the Sydney G.P.O. —thus establishing the
outstanding new record of 10 hours 12 minutes—and
proving its splendid superiority by again capturing the blue
ribbon road-record of Australia.
The Melboume-Sydney road is no race track! Pot holes and
culverts abound along the route! The gruelling journey
would test the nerves of the best of drivers and only the build
of a Chrysler car could withstand the strain.
The same quality, durability, and workmanship which went
into this record-breaking model, go into every Chrysler sold.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEJV ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS
Nen> South Wales
Victoria . , . . .
Queensland . . .
IVest Australia .
. Larke, Neave & Carter Ltd., Sydney
Collins Motors Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
. . IVard Motors Limited, Brisbane
. fVm. Attwood Motors Limited, Perth
South Australia .
Tasmania ....
New Zealand . .
New Guinea . .
. O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Adelaide
. . . Metro Motors Pty. Ltd., Hobart
. . Todd Motor Company, Wellington
. W. R. Carpenter & Co. Ltd., Rabaul
CS 607


w
v<
///,
A
A
/
S'/
%
H
Vm
y.
wi
N 5
L
n
I
/i
X
n:
>
N
:
X
x
rx
JZk
In all the world there is no Summer holiday-land can
compare with New Zealand for its scenic glory, its
wonderful variety of things to see and things to do.
You never have a wasted hour.
Along with its perfect Summer-time climate, New
Zealand offers you alpine scenery utterly beyond
compare, snow-clad peaks and sunshine which fills
your heart. Glittering lakes and fiordlands like jewels
in vivid green bush settings. The thermal marvels of
Rotorua.
Other people take half a year and travel thousands of
miles to see New Zealand’s marvels and count their
time well spent. You are only a few days away.
Plan now for the holiday that will be the pleasantest
memory of your life.
Write to the New Zealand Government Tourist
Department for full information. If necessary a repre-
sentative will call on you.
MELBOURNE: Mr. H. J. Manson, Dominion Chambers, 59
William Street.
SYDNEY: Mr. W. R. Blow, London Bank Chambers, 20 Martin
Place.
BRISBANE: Mr. T. G. Dewar, King House, Queen Street.
ADELAIDE: Mr. Victor H. Ryan, Director of South Australia
Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
PERTH: Messrs. U. S. McClintock and Co., Queen’s Buildings,
285 Murray Street.
:
fc.
c.
■ ‘ >• . - -
'
. S<;
mm ii
'ln • *i i i
. ~ ..
IH
mmmmm
mm
mmmmm
i
*iin
a
* *
ife
II
•*" v
fH
-Ti
SMSy
Baiai
$n
a
Mr
«


(as
TbMark
FHAMES7 All Linen
Indispensable to every Household.
CASH’S NAMES* are destinctive,
yet neat fadeless and durable^
c$ 33 /nA-
Sold by all
Best Drapers
/actual Sire,, Style No. 6
Trices:
I2dz, 7/6.
6dz,5'6.
3dz,3/6
"A feivshlches and they’re on. ‘
Write for Name Style Circular to
3. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt St., Richmond, Melb
a
Washing RIBBONS
Ts&am
AS NEW AFTER REPEATED WASHING"
sold by [Leading drapers
ji Model of Convenience
The position and character of the Wentworth make it ideal for those
who appreciate refined comfort and convenience. Situated high on
Church Hill, away from the noise and dust of the city traffic,
The Wentworth is yet wonderfully handy to all shops and theatres
and the business centre. Many bedrooms have their own private
bathrooms. Each has its private telephone and hot-water service.
The Wentworth is personally conducted by Mrs. Maclurcan, whose
reputation as a caterer and restaurateur is world wide.
Wire or write your reservations.
Ohe %fentwopl h
Under
Royal
.Warrant
ToH.M.
Kin£>
George V
Vintage 1920.
CH AIVIPAGINIE
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGNE
Qiaiicslleidsieov
HEIMS
PELLISSOIM
Cognac Brandy.
10 YEARS OL.D.
Australasian Agrerw—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
SHEER
CHIFFON
SILK
HOSIERY
Horseshoes for luck! But the horseshoes
that prance after the Melbourne Cup are no
luck-bringers to social Sydney. This week a
pall has settled over this city, which lies
beneath it straightened for the grave—it’s
certainly not for the gay. Even the cabaret
fiend is’ taking a week off, while sister goes
south to blew her money at Flemington.
Even the backless beach-costumes fail to
excite the multitude, though they certainly
won’t fail to excite the backs of the wearers if
flaunted under too ardent a sun. Pauline
Frederick, by the way. has baked herself from
the waist up; the effect being to turn her
into a fair representation of a Hawaiian
belle.
With thousands of her sisters this Letter
lias been making pilgrimage to the Made in
Australia Exhibition that is filling the Blax-
land Gallery at Farmer’s with the happy
prophecy of\jobs for all—if only the woman
of the family will do her bit. For almost
always the lady of the house directs the mar-
keting policy. What is good enough for mum
or “the wife” is generally accepted as good
enough by dad and the boys. Exhibits that
range from a model of the North Shore
Bridge to brassieres, and from sheeny stock-
ings to gleaming tinware, and take in shoes,
hats, corsets, bathing suits, crystal, radio
sets, sweets, biscuits, beds and preserves,
make fascinating aisles down which Aus-
tralia curious and Australia proud has been
roaming happily all day long. That a garb-
age-tin can be decorative is proved by the
cyclamen and grass-green receptacles that
have a proud place in one display. The lid of
these is automatically raised, so that hands
soiled with peeling potatoes or floury from
baking need not soil the glory of the paint;
also the housewife can save her back a few
jack-knife bends during the ardors of the
day. A “kitchen tidy” is another gaily
enamelled gadget for the neat housewife,
while a wire cup and plate drainer and a
nut-loaf tin that uncurls itself from its succu-
lent load are allurements to the dweller in
cottage, flat or mansion.
A gleaming show of aluminium wmre at
low prices carries a two years’ guarantee with
every article —“which doesn’t mean,” Miss
Curlylocks in charge hastens to explain,
“that they will last only two years. They
will last a lifetime.” But it does mean that
if a flaw is discovered during the guarantee
period, the article will be replaced. There’s
a shoe display as brightly colored as a flight
of butterflies, and this is rivalled by the all-
wool bathing-suits, gallantly red, tenderly
blue and grass-green; with one of dashing
yellow suggesting that Neptune’s daughter
had slipped on the primrose path. Art-silk
in all shades is fashioned into the slip and
bloomer-brassiere garment that are the under-
wear sufficient unto the moment; a bicycle
awhirl of dazzling rose and gold electrics
never ceases its revolutions, but goes free-
wheeling on, undaunted by the fact that it
makes no progress; the fruity voices of bari-
tones and the light syrup of tenors ooze out
from gramophone and radio. Electric irons
flash a reminder that with the summer comes
constant pressing of frocks and frills ; a new
waterproof golf shoe with non-skidding heels
and soles has a special appeal in this rain-
bow-round-the-slioulder sort of weather; and
the sweet and biscuit display made at least
one visitor wish for the appetite of four, com-
bined with the income of a Henry Ford.
Lacquers and varnishes, beds in gleaming
steel and brass, crystal cut into high-voltage
facets, ladies doing eurhythmies in elegant
pink corsets—they simply breathe optimism,
in spite of Wall-street crashes. A demon-
stration of the weaving of rugs and carpets
and the making of wickerwork furniture by
members of the Blind Institute and a display
of their work and play by the pretty and
serious little ones of the Golden Fleece
Kindergarten are two big attractions.
But though British people may be a nation
of shopkeepers, we are not a nation of sales-
men. Still we are coming on. At the last
Made in Australia Exhibition this Letter
attended, a person in charge of one exhibit
came up without being prodded, and spoke
with enthusiasm and illumination about his
wares. This time no fewer than three, seeing
an interested observer, approached and by
their talk indicated that the goods on view
had been put there with the intention of
attracting buyers.
Yet if the exhibitors were not vocal they
had almost without exception shown not only
salesmanship but artistry in the setting out
of their products. And new ideas have been
eagerly seized. Here, for instance, in a little,
darkened bureau a paint-maker has called in
the help of a colored movie camera to show
his wares in the very process of application.
There was a time when it was said of the
“colonial” product that though the material
was good enough, there was a lack of finish.
This exhibition shouts derision at the charge.
Mascot aerodrome has another notch on
its totem. Last week, for the first time,
three women pilots under tuition were
allowed to start together to make a solo
flight in formation. The ladies drove natty
little Moths to Richmond and back, which
took about eighty minutes. The high-fliers
were Mrs. J. E. Perry, Miss F. Beaton and
Miss I J . K. Arnott. Now that almost as
many of the stately homes of England are
fitted with private ’dromes as with
private baths, the craze will, no doubt,
descend on us; and soon flat agents will add
to the glowing list of attractions “d. and s.
roof aerodromes.” What an inspiration for
the poet will be the sight of thousands of
tired business men spreading their wings for
home ! Lullabies about “folding your wings
and snuggling into your nest” will hold quite
a different meaning for the baby of 1039.
Now that Douglas Dundas has shown us
the way with his smooth silver frames, Syd-
ney homes are going to have many of these
old-new settings for their pictures. Nothing
is more in keeping with a snow scene or a
still autumn landscape. Douglas lias framed
his own “Winter near Paris” in this placid
medium, and the result is an appealing sym-
pathy with the soft light on the snowy way
and the anatomy of the leafless trees. The
housewife, of course, will love the Majolica
Shop. Right through the doorway the young
artist leads you, till you feel you could
almost take the quaint pieces off the wall.
St. Cloud, too, is very alluring.
You’ll remember Douglas Dundas as the
intrepid young artist, whom Gruner dis-
covered on a farm. On being told that the
sketches he had done for pleasure showed
real talent, Douglas surprisedly packed his
kit and came to Sydney, and while studying
kept color in his tubes and a few T pence in
his pocket by taking a job as a window-
dresser. Still working at that job he entered
for and won the Society of Artists’ Scholar-
ship. Now Douglas is back from his travels
with the pictures at the show in the Mac-
quarie Galleries and a nice Victorian wife
whom he married in Paris. And, inciden-
tally, he remarks that there are no fewer
than 37,000 artists registered in Paris alone.
Beatrice Tange, slim neck and golden
head rising out of a calyx of green and gold,
aroused a stir of admiration from Con-
servatorium audience’s before she struck a
chord at her
concert last
week. Against
the bac h-
ground of the
dull green cur-
tains. Trix, in
her whorl of
green tulle
and green and
gold lame, was
like a young
Sept e m her
day. W hen
she started to
play you knew
that her fra-
gi 1 e appear-
ance was no-
thing against
her musi c.
Force and fire
and imagina-
ti o n stream
through the supple fingers and resilient
wrists. Emotion, too, tipped the Schu-
mann Romance and Chopin numbers with
silver. Scarlatti, Brahms, Bach, Liszt
and Vormoolen were other composers inter-
preted to the delight of the packed house,
and of those discerning judges of talent the
Wunderlich brothers, who were the concert’s
guarantors. Eight ushers staggered up and
down till their pores registered a great cir-
culation carrying tributes to the artist, and
back in the dressing-room waited a cable
from Giannini: “My thoughts and the
thoughts of my family are with you to-
night.” Trix goes next year for a concert
tour of Uncle Sam’s States under the Mayer
banner.
Enid Falkiner will have a sad home-com-
ing from her travels in Europe ; her father,
F. 8.5., known wherever good sheep are bred,
will not be among those to greet her.
The famous grazier died last week,
after a short illness, at Foxlow station,
near Queanbeyan. At his own wish
he lies buried in the cemetery of St. Thomas’s
Church at Carwoola. Mrs. Falkiner (who
was Ethel Howat. of Melbourne) had the
support of daughter Mrs. James Lowry, from
Maoriland, and her two sons in the family
bereavement.
After all, London can’t have the oppor-
tunities that come to Sydney, the “musically
starved.” According to a cable, George Lam-
bert’s son Constant performed for the first
time last week a sonata for the piano into
which he introduces jazz rhythms. This,
the cable states, is the first time jazz has
been introduced into serious music. But
Sydney has more than once heard Gersh-
win’s Rhapsody in Blue —the famous ex-
ample of the Blues rhythm in a serious
composition; and Arthur Benjamin’s Con-
certino, with its fascinating jazz theme, is
still remembered. Constant’s first notable
success was the ballet “Romeo and Juliet,”
interpreted by Karsavina and Serge Lifar,
of the Russian Ballet, in His Majesty’s. Not
the least part of another hit by this com-
poser is the melodic dedication to Anna
May Wong. This precedes his Seven Poems
from the Chinese for a soprano and string
quintet. , ,
Both of Lambert’s young sons are hailed
as prophets by the youthful modernists of
London, and are damned with equal vigor by
the representational school, which abhors
noise in art. The sculptor, who is as in-
explicable and nearly as infuriating to many
critics as Epstein himself, lives permanently
in England, but his musician-brother is a
cosmopolitan. They are a tawny, stoutly-
built pair with herculean shoulders and
arms that contrast oddly with their father’s
rather frail physique.
Leslie Walford’s widow, the most success-
ful wearer of weeds in this Letter's memory,
has changed her name again. She is now
Mrs. Eric Sheller. A honeymoon in Egypt
with the youngest Walford as a third is
among things listed to be done after
Eric lias best-manned brother Horace next
Saturday. All Saints’, Woollahra, will house
this wedding, in which Mary Sydney Wilkin-
son will be the bride. Her father is that
Dr. Camac Wilkinson, of T.B. research fame.
Her brother Captain Wilkinson, of the Cold-
stream Guards, will hand over the prize.
Vivid Laurie Dind, of Rose Bay, sent a
glow through the veins of old St. Stephen’s
the other night when in white georgettes
starry with diamente and a tulle veil like a
froth of sherbet she took a lease in perpetuity
of George Nyman, of Bellevue Hill. On the
arm that snuggled her bouquet of white roses
and carnations flashed her groom’s gift, a
diamond and platinum wristlet watch. The
gold and amber of chrysanthemums were
caught in the billows of tulle and lace, in
which the three bridesmaids floated after the
principal, their arms filled witli roses and
gemmed ivory evening bags, their souvenirs-
of this happy moment in George Nyman’s
life. The cake was cut at the Dungowan
under the direction of Mrs. A. R. Dind in
black lace served with orchids. The honey-
moon will be caught in the Melbourne Cup.
Dorrie Hickey, not satisfied with things as
they were, made a name for herself the other
day and became Mrs. Leo Flynn. Her hus-
band is a popular young doctor of Centennial
Park, and the wedding took place as early as
half-past ten on a sunny morning within St.
Mary’s. Cyclamen ribbon and lace were allied
in the pretty wedding garment, which was
worn with a shady lilac felt hat banded with
a violet velvet ribbon. Tulips and orchids
in mauve tonings were worn in the hands.
Marjorie Cox. the only ’maid, toned in with
the bride in her lilac georgettes and satin
shoes and hat. Frank Flynn, one of the
groom’s three brothers, best-manned. The
Blue-room of the Wentworth heard the
toasts, and admired Mrs. A. J. Hickey in
a powder-blue georgette ensemble.
Artist Aletta Lewis has her face set
towards England once more. On the way she
will drop off at Assam and add to her col-
lection of colored belles for the show which
she intends holding in London. Full of
success and the tea-leaf of farewell, she
leaves Sydney next week. Her Sydney
hostess, Mrs. Lee Brown, staged a big after-
noon party for her last week.
The new director of the Riverview Obser-
vatory has arrived. He is Father William
O’Leary, and his eyes are as twinkling as
the stars he knows so well —though the sug-
gestion of familiarity with stars is resented
sometimes, as witness the way Walter Marks
repudiated being matey with little Mary
Piekford! Father William, who founded
observatories in Limerick and at Rathfarn-
liam, and served also at Milltown Park and
in Belgium, has brought with him a seismo-
graph which he made himself. So far as
possible it is liis pleasant hobby to make all
his own instruments.
Roy Agnew has caught the ear of vice-
royalty, and Lady Stonehaven has promised
her support to the farewell concerts whereby
Roy hopes to gather sufficient shekels for
an attack on America. The G.-G.’s. lady has
promised introductions also to help the Aus-
tralian music-writer.
Mrs. H. V. Buesst, an ardent Melbourne
supporter of jazz in spite of the fact that
son Aylmer is director and conductor of
the Carl Rosa Opera Company, beckoned her
Sydney friends into 44 Macleay-street last
Thursday for a farewell. The hostess, who
wore black lace lit with diamonds, danced
every dance and supplied some of the music.
Singing was a feature of the evening; among
the skylarks were tenor Walter Kirby, Rena
Lawrence (she’s Melba’s newest protegee)
and Mrs. William Arnott. Kindly John
Fuller and his wife were among the guests,
and Brother Ben and his lady. Mrs. Mar-
jorie Osborne and Dr. Eak'in’s wife and
Phyllis Fuller were among the good-lookers
of the evening. Composer Roy Agnew was
among the dancers, and blue-eyed Kathleen
Malone, who motored across from Melbourne
with Mrs. Buesst, and by now has motored
back again, helped with the entertaining.
Mrs. Buesst is the proud mother of three
good Australians. The eldest is Aylmer, the
only Australian who has conducted opera
at Covent Garden ; the second, Victor, is a
pianist of note; the third, Tristan, a Mel-
bourne barrister, is a delegate to the Pacific
Relations Conference now being held in
Japan.
Professor Sadler, of Sydney Uni., is
another visitor to this conference; but Mrs.
Sadler remains to look after the roses in the
family’s North Shore garden.
There are 16 Kindergartens sheltering
under the wing of the Kindergarten Union.
Under such pretty signs as Peter Pan, Blue
Bird, Golden Fleece and Little Citizens they
supply happiness to the babies of the poorer
suburbs. They teach them that laughter and
play are quite important things and can be
found easily if you know how to look for
them. Besides teaching the youngsters the
pretty things
of life, the
schools supply
milk and very
often health-
lunches. But
the Union has
to foot the
bills! That
means a con-
stant round of
money-raisers,
and between
n o w a n d
Christmas
several out-
size parties are
being organ-
ised to help.
Among them
are a child-
ren’s party at
David Jones’s,
a ball on the
Orontes on
Dec. IS (this is on a 50-50 basis, the
C.W.A. getting the other half), and a per-
formance of “Grumpy” in St. James’s Hall.
Mrs. Pat Levy, one of Sydney’s best-lookers
and the subject of this Alan Row picture, is
one of the most consistent workers on the
executive of every function in aid of the
Union.
The Girls’ Committee of the Royal Life
Saving Society showed some originality at the
dance in aid of the society’s funds. To begin
with they called it the Ding Dong Dance,
and the feature of the evening was a Parade
of Belles. This the ever-ready Leo Carrillo
judged, and awarded the apple of Lombardi
to Rose McGrath, a true-blue black-haired
Irish type, who set off the charms of Erin
in black lace and tiny blue shoes. Bathing
costumes were the prizes won by the two
lucky enough, like Mr. Micawber, to be on
tne spot (marked X) when the music
stopped. Still another prize was a telephone
doll, dressed in fairy-like pinks and greens
after the style of Eloise, the perfect 86
model in Lombardi. Pretty Rowena Ronald
came on from the theatre with Mr. Carrillo,
and the two were the guests of Mrs. Graham
Garland. Secretary Olga Koch, in a flowing
frock of black lace, swept gracefully through
the evening.
Captain ,T. B. Stevenson, R.A.N., and his
lady are busy settling into Tresco. the Eliza-
beth Bay house that, like their Excellencies’
camp in Macquarie-strect, can never be a
real home. (These nice old places always
seem as pathetic as a dog without a master.)
Still the Stevenson couple will bring friendli-
ness to dwell with them in Tresco during
their stay. The wife of Garden Island's new
Captain-Superintendent hails ’ from Tas-
mania. She was Miss Bailey, of Hobart.
The Vagabonds, out after money to give
their latest protegee a holiday and a happy
Christmas, filled St. James’s Hall last week-
end With chuckles and peals of laughter
raised by their production of “Passing
Brompton-road.” This is a featherweight
comedy, in which Marie Tempest made a
London success. It is just a bubble of fun
that was cleverly kept from bursting by the
agile-in-comedy Vagabonds. The protegee, a
lame little girl, whom Dr. Herz is treating,
is doing famously.
There are brollies and brollies, and there’s
nothing of a nark about a new little chap
that’s on the market. Folded up it is just
about a foot long. Its handle can be pushed
in till the knob is on a level with the ribs,
and the top can be folded up. These umbrel-
las are complete with covers, and are small
enough to cuddle into an overcoat pocket.
They are made of fine silk taffeta and are
plain or striped.
OVERHEARD.
Elderly Lady (obviously doivn for the races ):
“What do you think, Father! This morning I bought
a little thing of Streeton’s painted thirty years ago.”
Father ( cheerfully) : “They took you down, Mother !
If it’s been lyin’ on his hands for thirty years, you
c’n bet your boots there’s something wrong with it.”


-WMCffiSTm
TRADE MARK
FLASHLIGHTS AND BATTERIES
—as Qood as the Qun
IF you know Winchester Rifles
and Shotguns you know Win-
chester quality. And you will
find this same fine quality in
Winchester Batteries and Flash-
lights—a light adapted to every
use, with special features of con-
struction and convenience that
no other flashlight gives.
In the three-cell focusing flash-
light shown above, note the stur-
dy construction, the deeply cor-
rugated case, the positive, easily
operated switch and the octagon
cap which keeps the light from
tolling oft a table when you lay
it down. Note particularly the
special hook hanger by which
you can hook your light to belt
or pocket or to a rod, cord, au-
tomobile hood, tree branch—and
at many other points where a
light cannot usually be hung.
When you think of Winchester, think of
flashlights and batteries as well as of guns.
WINCHESTER REPEATING 20
ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A.^^j
1
5
R
S
Vi
Si
ss
WINCHESTER
fessFLASHU&MCI
1
B)6e
NATIONAL BANK
OP AUSTRALASIA. LTD.
HEAD OFFICE, MELBOURNE.
*****
asm
Capital Paid up
£5,000,000
Reserve Fund
£3,100,000
Total Assets
£47,431,823
492 Offices and Branches in
Australia.
LONDON OFFICES:
7 Lothbury and
Australia House, Strand.
Principal Office in New South Wales:
342 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bank provides a complete service covering the financial
side of Australian Industry—including farming, grazing,
manufacturing, transport, wholesale and retail trade, as well
as import and export transactions. It makes loans against
approved securities and allows interest on money lodged on
deposit for terms ranging up to two years. Full provision
is made to meet the banking needs of tourists and settlers.
Agents throughout the World.
I m
<jWA
Black and
Jade with
Rolled Gold
Bands
30/-
Ladies’ Pen
Lavender
22/6
Jade with
Rolled Gold
Bands
30/-
(There's a
''Tune-Fount
Pencil to
match any
'SwanPen
FOR
'SWAN"
PENS &
ALL PENS
THfc -
VOC»G®
FOR COHWR
'Btight Aued give
am distinction
to ttvi SuHuA Tbit
HARMONIOUS AND
CONTRASTING TONES
ARE NOW AVAILABLE
TO MEET THE TREND
IN POPULAR TASTE
COLOURED “SWANS” FROM 22/6
(OTHER SELF-FILLING “SWANS” FROM 17/6
Black or Mottled).
“Fyne Poynt” Pencils from 7/6
Self-Filling “Blackbird” Pens from 9/-
jSWAN"
I PENS
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., Swan House, London, W.I.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
B (AJ
COWBOY SADDLERY OUTFITS
2-
B
.
w
I 9
■: -
m
I
H
'
THE
TEXAS
RANGER
SADDLE,
£l3 13/-
No. 73. LEATHER
CHAPS, as illustrated,
with nickel Conchas
and Fringe, 91/-. With-
out Conchas, 857-
FANCY STUDDED
BRIDLE, with Gold
Color Cowboy Bit with
Nickel Horse-head, 76/-
Fancy Breastplate to match .... 75/-
Write for Catalogue of our Australian
and Texas Saddlery.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
dsa
Box 785 G.


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
"Dining Service 9.lst Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
i
: B vosst :
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
m
dsa
Food
Herd. TRADE MARK.
The
happy task
of motherhood is lightened
by Benger’s Food.
Nursing and expectant
mothers will find a mine of
valuable information in the
new booklet, a medically
approved work, sent post
free.
Try Benger’s Food for deli-
cate infants, and at weaning
time.
Write for booklet to ,* —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHEoi’ER, Eng.
Startling Innovations at
%
Dancing till 1 a.m.
EVENING DRESS OPTIONAL.
A La Carte Service.
Minimum Charge 7/6.
Afternoon and Evening
Mr. Ernest C. Rolls’s New York
Cabaret Revue.
Popular Cabaret Teas
Monday to Friday 2/6
S .turday 4/-
’Phone M 4131 for your reservation.
Merry Christmas!
by ARTHUR GROOM
IIIUS'TBATED BY HARPY J. WEXTON
CHAPTER I.
In Which You Meet Sandy.
SANDY JACKSON watched the lights
of passing cars play all along the
bitumen surface of Stanley-street.
It was nearing midnight, and few people
walked. The trams were crowded with
suburban residents. At intervals fine closed-
in cars slid past, leaving an impression of
warmth and wealth.
But Sandy Jackson did not force his
mind to study details; for that matter he
could not. His head was throbbing vio-
lently from a mixture of wine, rum and
whisky; and the homing cars, the crowded
trams and the contrasting bareness of the
footpath brought to him the realisation
that he had a halfpenny in his trouser
pocket, and no other earthly show of wealth
in the world.
A strange relief stole over him. He had
little more to lose, and he was not dead
yet. He would welcome another drink. His
search for work had drawn more strength
from him than he knew. He had spent
days and weeks wandering the streets,
poking in here and there, living mostly
by the aid of his wits and a gift of colossal
cheek.
But the drag was a little too heavy, and
he knew that drink was playing a deadly
hand with him.
If only he had luck like some people!
There was the Broker; who went off to
Ascot almost every week with just a few
shillings, only to return with pounds. How
did the miracle occur?
Sandy Jackson shook his head at himself,
and walked unsteadily a few feet further.
The traffic was becoming less. It was almost
midnight. Yes—how did such miracles
occur?
Through the deep shadows before the
flourmills a tall policeman paraded slowly
along Stanley-street. Sandy Jackson saw
him in a blurred silhouette against a distant
street light. Perhaps he could explain how
people worked miracles with shillings.
The policeman stayed a few seconds at
the corner of the flourmills, shaded his
eyes against the lights of an oncoming car,
and looked keenly to the wharves down on
the right. He crossed the narrow street
and paused before Sandy Jackson.
“Better get a shift on,” he advised firmly.
Sandy Jackson’s mind tried, to grasp
several things. It had more grasp on a
picture of the Broker’s picked winner than
anything else.
“Put yer money on a bob-tailed nag,”
he answered. “Doodle-oodle-oodle-oo!”
“What th !” The policeman stepped a
little closer. “Here, get a move on—quick
and lively!”
Sandy Jackson’s forefinger wandered aim-
lessly in front of his bristly face. His
huge, ill-fitting coat gave him the impres-
sion of being a small boy in the clothes
of a man.
“Say,” he said unsteadily. “Can I ask
you civil queshin?”
“Get a move on!”
“ ’Slike this. Er—m broke—see! Stiff as
a rake. Got nothin’ ’cept one ha’penny.
Nothin’ to keep that li’l’ ha’penny warm.
Now, Dig, want to ask you this—see! Er—
V I want work. No work about. Can’t help
that—can I? Blame the bloomin’ Guv’-
ment. Now look, see. I want to get out
of town —where there’s work.
I’m not town man. I’m
broke—been broke weeks an’
weeks ’n’ weeks. That con-
shutes Cabinet problem. I’m
stiff—yes, stiff, stuck and jiggered! But
give me a chance —see?”
“Where do you come from?” The con-
stable’s voice was not very harsh. He had
plenty of time, and the street was almost
deserted.
“Stock work. Been jack’roo, stashin
man’ger. Been to G’lipoli, too! Sandy
Jackson —that’s me.”
“Get well out of sight, pretty quick,”
the constable warned him evenly, “or in
you go.”
Sandy Jackson answered in a jumble;
but the constable had continued on his beat.
The August night was a bit chilly. A
wind blew little swirls of dust along the
street; and a window banged somewhere
in a dark building. The policeman stood
stock still, then crossed the street to in-
vestigate. Sandy Jackson subsided into
the doorway of a bedding factory.
Through the night the policeman paraded
Stanley-street, and as morning approached
the night grew wild. In the doorway of the
silent bedding factory Sandy Jackson slept
heavily, coiled up awkwardly; and on every
beat the policeman made a point of visiting
the spot to see that Sandy was still there.
At length a grey tinge silhouetted the
chimneys across the river; and the police-
man paused before the doorway again. He
bent down and shook the sleeper.
Sandy Jackson woke heavily.
“What the blazes?” he started, and
looked up into the solemn face of the
policeman. “Where you got me now?”
“Where I left you last night,” the police-
man answered. “Hop it! Quick and lively.”
Full remembrance returned to Sandy
Jackson. He shuffled to his feet and rubbed
his eyes.
“Thanks, Dig,” he muttered. “Gawd—
I’d just like to get out of town —before
the pubs open. Sorry I can’t give you a
card, Dig.”
“You want to bustle,” the policeman
warned him again. “You’ll find a different
man on duty here to-night.”
The policeman continued on towards the
bridge, and Sandy Jackson crossed the
street. He felt hungry and thirsty; more-
over his head was heavy. Something urged
him to get well away before he was caught
in a net. He knew that net—the terrible
mesh which got people and dragged them
down. He was penniless, certainly; but
once the hotels opened—penniless or
wealthy all resolutions would go by the
board. Somehow he would get a drink,
and other drinks would follow.
He paused before a long mirror in a
cafe window and gazed at himself. He
ran his hands over his chin. He had not
shaved for a fortnight. He had no hat. His
shirt was torn and was collarless and button-
less, and was covered with a large grey
coat. His ears were large and stuck out.
Years before he had been known as the
Windjammer, and advised never to wander
on deck in a cyclone.
Shuffling footsteps sounded along the
footpath, and another man loomed through
the greyness.
Sandy Jackson straightened up. His big
coat bobbed almost down to the calves of
his knees; and his hands disappeared into
the sleeves. The stranger looked—well,
rather ruthless and not quite a safe com-
panion.
“I’ll have to shake a leg,” Sandy mut-
tered. “See you again.”
Like a wraith he was gone. He went
towards Victoria Bridge, and crossed it to
the accompaniment of milk lorries and an
early tram. For a few seconds he paused
to look at the swirling waters of the Bris-
bane River below; and a queer sense of
pride filled his heart. The river was running
with a fresh from a heavy storm, and all
that water was going down to the sea. He
had been to sea more than once. It was
a decent life. A coastal boat showed dimly
half a mile down the river.
Queen-street stretched before him, silent
and almost deserted. A policeman was
walking away down one side, and nearer at
hand a man was tying a portmanteau to
the running board of a brand-new two-
seater car. The discovery brought a thrill
to Sandy Jackson. He shuffled quickly for-
ward. The man was of medium height,
middle-aged, inclined to be a little stout,
and bore the almost unmistakable signs
of the successful commercial traveller. He
had on a grey dust-coat. Making so early
a start, he would be going well out of town —
surely.
The motorist glanced up casually at Sandy’s
approach and bent again to his task of
SANDY.
tying on another large portmanteau. He
walked to the back of the car, lifted the
lid and peered in. The back seemed almost
empty.
“Goin’ out of town, Mister?” Sandy
Jackson asked eagerly.
“Yes, why?” The motorist stopped sud-
denly on the footpath. His forehead seemed
to pucker up in one big frown.
“Could you give me a lift—a short way?”
“Eh? No, man, I’ve no room!” His
voice was snappy. He turned and walked
heavily into the hotel.
Sandy stood and looked at the car. There
was plenty of room. Lifting the lid gingerly,
he paused, and then he climbed in. The
lid closed gently above him.
Sandy did not try to consider why he
had acted so. His body was small enough
to fit in the back; but the light was bad
and the only inlet for air was a hole in the
bottom where a pipe from the petrol tank
went out beneath the car. A few tools
were scattered over the small floor-space
and a spare tube and a dirty rag left a
scent of rubber and stale oil in the stuffy
air. The portmanteaus would not have
fitted in the space.
Deep voices sounded on the footpath and
Sandy stiffened.
“That’s pretty slick! When I went in-
side there was a bird out here wanted me
to give him a lift. He’s disappeared—
gone as clean as a whistle!”
The conversation dropped too low for
Sandy to understand it, and grew loud again
a few minutes later.
“Well, you’ll ’phone me from Toowoomba
—to-night—eh? About seven. Sure you’ve
all your samples with you? Good! Any-
way, if you’re stuck on the road, get in
touch with me straight away.”
“I’ll get through—the road’s had two solid
days to dry up.”
“All right! Watch yourself, that’s all.
Keep away from the girls. So long!”
The motorist paused beside the car and
the lid opened. A ray of light blinded
Sandy and a brown paper parcel hit him
in the face. He grunted and heard a grat-
ing sound of metal to metal a few inches
above his head.
The motorist had locked him in the back
of the car!
The engine started up with a roar and
then ran steadily.
CHAPTER 11.
Sandy Gets a Knock.
Before many minutes had passed Sandy
Jackson had made some very disturbing
discoveries.
His position was cramped and the slightest
bump caused him to bounce against every
side of the body. The interior was almost
dark. A dim light showed through the
small hole in the floor. The brown paper
parcel and the spare tube hurled round
and round and smote him from every point
like a pair of boxing gloves mixed up with
a shower of stones. The back of his bare
head had a magnetic attraction for the
locked lid.
At last the few glimpses which he had
been able to get of tram rails through the
small hole disappeared altogether, and he
reasoned that he was on the outskirts of
the town. He found that by holding to
a small angle-iron stay he could at least
prevent much of the bumping.
After an almost interminable period the
car seemed to run out on to perfect road;
almost exhausted, Sandy half collapsed and
breathed eagerly through the small hole in
the floor. He breathed in a certain amount
of exhaust smoke, and felt a growing heavi-
ness in his head; but at least he was getting
away from Brisbane, where he could
neither find work nor keep out of the pubs.
The country was entirely different. He could
get work almost anywhere there—anybody
could. If he managed to get far enough
out he would find himself back amongst old
friends.
There was Jim Walters—if only he could
get back to the north-west he’d probably
bump into James again.
The car stopped with a screeching of
brakes and a suddenness which hurled Sandy
against all the bumps at once.
“Hullo, Pratten, glad to see you!” There
followed a silence which seemed to indicate
the shaking of hands. “You’re out early.
Come and have a drink? Place isn’t open
yet; but Pat Donovan’s moving about the
bar.”
Sandy licked his dry lips and tried to
scramble into a more comfortable position;
but 3pace was limited. It must have
grown smaller. If only he could raise his
(Continued on page 51.)


The New Harwood Self-winding Watch
9ct. Gold,
£lO/10/-
The Harwood Self-winding Watch, here illustrated, is the very latest development of
the Watchmaker’s Art. It is an accurate and superior timepiece, having an automatic
winding device in lieu of the usual winding stem. Wearing the Watch winds it; over-
winding is impossible. When taken off for the night there is sufficient reserve power
in the spring to keep it going all night and for 20 hours after! If left off for a longer
period, the watch will stop, but will instantly start again when placed on the wrist.
Having no external means of winding enables the movement to be enclosed in a dust-
and damp-proof case without any apperture whatever.
The Harwood Self-winding Watch, with 15-Jewel Lever Movement, fully guaranteed, is
priced at £lO/10/-
Call and see it for yourself, or write for full particulars.
9
Comer Royal Arcade and Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE Cl.
W-McF.
■S&MA.SCi
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
[?]lizabethan
[?]ea Rooms
[?]
Buakl[?] Num,[?]
So[?]
The Cup, for which all Melbourne is pre-
paring at the moment this Letter must throw
itself at the printer, is getting to be quite
an ancient institution. It is older than the
V.R.C. which now fathers it; it was first
battled for at Flemington in 1861 —Archer
was the winner—whereas the V.R.C. did not
come into the world till three years later.
The club’s birthplace was Scott’s Hotel, at
a meeting where 19 people put up £lOOO
One of the keenest of the founders, Robert
Cooper Bagot, the son of a clergyman, didn’t
know anything about gee-gees, but he became
the first secretary, and being a civil engineer by
profession he visualised the possibilities of the
present course, and his dream has come true.
Bagot’s ambition was to see a 100,000 roll-
up for a Cup day, and that was attained
in 1880, the year before he died. The club
began with a membership of 40, the tickets
being written by the secretary and stamped
with the Bagot crest. For some time the
committee meetings were held in the office
of Bagot and Stawell (the Stawell who
was later knighted), which stood where
Menzies’ Hotel now is. In the beginning
the grandstand was on the opposite side
of the course to that which it now occupies,
and the winning-post was nearer to town.
Then Bagot saw thei advantages of the hill,
and planted there the picturesque members’
stand, which, as it- shaped itself, was dubbed
“Bagot’s cowshed,” a name that stuck for
years, though it is difficult to associate it with
the building which to-day is a bower of
ivy and roses.
Those were the days when carriages with
prancing steeds delivered their fair freight
at the front lawn, on which a peacock or two
preened his feathers in emulation of feminine
finery. In the passing of the years, the
value of Melbourne’s great handicap event
has grown apace. In 1870 the Cup was
appraised at £3OO. To-dav the owner of the
winner collects £9422. Of the pioneers of
the club not one remains. The late Byron
Moore, who carried on the secretaryship until
lie died, was a great lover of flowers, and
he played a big part in the laying out of
the grounds. Now A. V. Kewney carries on,
and takes a personal pride in the floral
beauty of the course.
The gardener at Flemington racecourse
evidently set his stage on the assumption
that Derby Day would be fine, and he didn’t
lose his bet. The double rows of window-
boxes that fronted the big stand were filled
with flowers of the most vivid hue, and pots
of schizanthus, cinerarias, and calceolarias
were grouped at the tops of the stairways
and in the committee and v.-r. rooms. Many
patrons halted on their trek to and from
the betting-ring to admire the display.
Standard roses emerged from pools of pansies,
Iceland poppies made splashes of color on
the lawn, and climbing red, pink and white
roses made the fence bordering the straight
very ornamental.
It was all a magnificent setting for
the flora] patterned chiffon and ninon
frocks worn by at least half the womenfolk.
Bits of material anchored to waist-line and
shoulders fluttered in the breeze, and this
year the wave of color went down to the.
ground-line, where twinkled shoes green,
blue, orange and red. Lace gowns, mostly
black or in shades of fawn, were favored by
many; figured silks and georgettes had scores
of supporters, and there was the usual sprink-
ling of black and magpie effects. Large hats
were in favor and the tulle confection with a
much stitched brim of a dozen layers made
its appearance. The sou’-wester shape of
millinery with its backward, downward dip
was also represented. A purple velvet hat
of this mode, worn with a frock in tone,
attracted attention. Parasols were not plenti-
ful, but those that were unfurled were very
gay.
The v.-r. pews contained their full comple-
ment, and grey suits and grey bell-toppers
were given an outing by the G.-G. and most
of the State Governors. Lady Stonehaven’s
beige ensemble suit was fancifully embroidered
and she wore a straw hat in harmony.. Lady
Somers featured the tuck-in blouse in her
brown and white check voile, her hat being
mushroom shade. Lady de Chair, vice-reine
of Sydney, watched the racing from under a
largish hat of plumbago blue that matched
her frock. Her daughter Elaine wore fawn
georgette, a gold and brown embroidered
wrap and a cocoa-colored straw hat. Lady
Goodwin, of Bananaland’s Government
House, wore bois-de-rose georgette beneath a
beige coat, with a baku straw hat in tune,
and Lady Campion from W.A. sported black
and white. Miss Margaret O’Grady from
Tassie was summery in soft green and white
silk and a shady tuscan hat. The Hore-
Ruthvens, who govern S.A., had not yet
arrived, but Captain Brassey and Mrs.
Brassey, lately from England, who have
been staying with them, were there, she in
nattier blue chiffon, furs and a biscuit
bangkok hat. Captain Birdwood, son of
“Birdie,” was in the throng. Lord and Lady
Craigavon made their acquaintance with our
ruling passion.
The S. M. Bruces sat in the Governor-
General’s enclosure for a space, and Rear-
Admiral and Mrs. Evans were also sighted.
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Bruce, she in a
fetching black gown and large straw hat,
introduced their English niece, Miss Bruce,
who was charming in floating draperies of
primrose patterned chiffon. Mrs. Fred Thiel,
Mrs. Herbert Field, of Sydney, and her
sister Mrs. Gollan, who wore a beautifully
cut twine colored lace frock, were on the
lawn. Knight Frank Clarke’s wife wore
chiffon in pale red and white, and a little
fawn straw hat. Mrs. Rupert Downes. Mrs.
John Winter-Irving, Mrs. Arthur Staughton,
in fawn georgette spotted in black and
green, and Mrs. George Blackwood, in nigger
brown georgette, were some of the society
folk in the huge crowd. Mrs. Len Buxton,
whose black ninon gown was traced in fern
design in green, had to say another thank
you to Billy Duncan and High Syce, this
time for winning the Melbourne Stakes.
Here is a Ruskin picture of Mrs. Lief
Due, who originated the idea of gathering
the bridge
players of the
State into a
p li i lanthropic
body under
the title of the
Aee of Clubs.
Members bind
themselves to
hand over six-
pence to the
Taid Mayor’s
fund every
time they
play. Mrs.
Due hostessed
a card party
at the Quatn-
by Club last
week, when
Glanville
Ilicks, sec. of
th e L.M.F.,
gave details of
the scheme,
and badges of membership at one shilling
were readily taken up. Mayoress Luxton and
the Morell lady were among the guests who
gathered in rooms resplendent with sweet-
smelling stocks and roses. The hostess wore
navy blue georgette inlet with hand-made
lace of cobwebby texture, and flowers of
putty color were tucked under the brim of
her straw hat.
Strong vice-regal patronage and an out-
break of ostrich-feather fans were features
of the Naval and Military Club’s ball, which
led off the festivities of the race season.
Fanfares of trumpets and drum-rolls an-
nounced the arrival of George Rex’s repre-
sentatives at the Town Hall as the presi-
dent, General Monash, and the committee
gave greeting. The G.-G. came with Lady
Stonehaven, whose draperies of geranium-red
georgette and oxidised gold tissue were lit
up with sparkling embroideries. She waved
a fan of harmonising plumage, and her
shingle was banded with a red ribbon. The
State Exes, made their first public appear-
ance after their six-months’ absence. Lady
Somers’s white georgette gown followed the
mode of the minute with its attached ups
and downs. Sydney Government House sent
a nice family group. Lady de Chair had
a pink rose perched on the shoulder of her
black lace gown, and Elaine's bouffant scal-
loped flounces were of the faintest pink
taffeta and tulle. Their Exes, of Westralia
were also there, Lady Campion’s pale yellow
satin robe being fashioned with many wide
tucks and a shoulder cape of lace. Gover-
nor O’Grady, of the Apple Isle, brought Ms
daughter Margaret, clad in black lace and
tulle. Other guests were Mayor and Mayor-
ess Luxton, she in black lace; Rear-Admiral
Evans with Mrs. Evans, who was in white
tulle and taffeta; and Rear-Admiral and
Mrs. Kerr, she sporting pale-green lace and
georgette. General Chauvel and his lady
were there, she looking younger than ever
in a flowered crepe de Chine frock that
was mainly ean de Nil. Major-General
Brand brought his wife and daughter Lorna,
the last-named in blue with trails of pink
roses. Marjorie Kimpton was in white
chiffon, long of line, and Kitty Currie dis-
played deep cream taffeta with blurred rose
patterning. The scene "was brilliant, the
uniforms of navy and army and the kaleido-
scopic hues of feminine attire having as
background palms, deep pink azaleas and
primulas.
If the Rose Society had held its show this
week instead of last the standard and variety
of exhibits would have constituted a record.
As it was there were a few backward buds,
but it was a very gorgeous display for all
that. Notable were the deep red and yellow
blooms, the latter seeming almost translucent
in their depth of color. Among these flaunt-
ing beauties the champion rose, a perfectly
petalled pale yellow Alexander Hill Grey,
might have passed unnoticed had it not been
for the imposing gold-fringed scarf draped
around it. Alister Clark, whose Glenara
seedlings are famous, came forward with non-
competitive groupings of new and favorite
roses, the prolific flowering Sunny South
being given the centre of the stage. Though
suffering from a poisoned hand Mr. Clark
couldn’t keep away, and spent a happy time
comparing entries and swapping experiences
with other exhibitors. President James Allan
spoke the prologue. He mentioned that since
the N.R.S. had commenced the publication of
a Rose Annual, distributed only to members,
two years ago, the membership had been more
than doubled, and the fame of the publication
had gone afar, demands for copies coming
from Denmark, Italy and other parts of
Europe. Mr. Allan also delivered himself of
the belief that no man could pursue the cul-
tivation of roses and remain a Bolshevik. The
blooms were sold at the conclusion of the
show for the benefit of the Homoeopathic Hos-
pital, and the profits went to the same good
cause. Mr. Allan, with his wife and son
Keith, is off on a trip to Europe this month;
so next year he should be able to discourse
learnedly about the roses of Picardy.
Mary, eldest daughter of the Clive Bail-
lieus, has announced her intention of mar-
rying William, youngest son of the Rev.
Lord and Lady Victor Seymour, of 78 Corn-
wall Gardens, London. The bride-to-be is
a talented pianist, and has taken part in
two-piano recitals here.
Mary Baillieu, wearing pale-green tulle,
received congratulations on her just-an-
nounced matrimonial engagement when her
parents, the Clive Baillieus, put on a Derby
Eve party at Kamilaroi. The dance had
gorgeous floral surroundings, and society was
there in full array. The hostess was wrapped
about in gilded tissue with matching coat,
and her younger daughter June was attired
in lettuce-green chiffon. Mrs. Pat Osborne
(N.SVV.) was among the many who favored
apparel of tender green. The Gordon Chirn-
sides, Mr. and Mrs. James Fairbairn, Joan
Darling (Sydney) and Mr. and Mrs. Nor-
man Brookes were guests.
The Lawn Tennis Association’s dance at
the Kooyong club-house was a prettily-staged
affair. Cinerarias and crimson roses,
arranged by Mrs. George Cook and Helen
Sage, glowed against the dark-panelled
walls.
Last week there was a cafe chantant with
bridge at Scott’s for the Women’s Hospital
building fund, run in the interests of the
Movie Queen, Mrs. Barry Thomson. Esme
Alice did the secretarial chores, and the com-
mittee aided in many ways, particularly in
disposing of the wares at the flower stall,
where a huge bowl of lilac and waratahs
halted the eye. Eileen Castles in coral pink,
Ada Reeve, Mary Gannon and Adele Crane
were among the many professionals who
entertained the throng.
Scotsburn, the Toorak home of Mrs.
Arthur Payne, threw open its doors for a
society tea-drinking early last week, when the
chatelaine wore flowered chiffon in tones of
rose, black and green on a fawn background.
The flowers used in decoration were gorgeous.
Mrs. Marsden sang and some other artists
provided instrumental fare. Also there was a
fortune-teller.
A smart dance was given at No. 9 last
week by the section of the younger set which
is allied to
the C.W.A.
Pictured here
by Lafayette
is the presi-
dent of this
young people’s
c o m m i ttee,
Mrs. Norman
Barrett, who
a few years
ago was Joyce
a’Beckett. a
keen follower
of the hounds.
The aim of
the hop was
to reduce the
debt on the
Black Rock
holiday home
for out-back
families, for
which the
younger set
has made itself responsible. Mrs. lan Black,
of Mt. Noorat, sent a great box of lilies of
the valley, which were sold. Mrs. Barrett
did the honors in uneven draperies of berry-
red lace. Mary Salmon, in sunset pink, and
Elizabeth Moran, in white georgette, were
the lion, ticket secs.
Gus Bluett’s reception at the Theatre
Royal on Saturday night in “Hold Every-
thing” was infinitely more enthusiastic than
that accorded to Phar Lap’s win in the
Derby. Features that make the show popu-
lar are Bluett, the ballet and the delightful
clothes worn by everyone on the stage. lat
Kendall wears an orange chiffon that nas
several frills, and a short jacket sprinkled
with star-like glistening motifs.
Edna Josephine Tabart in her wedding
gown might have stepped out of a fashion
journal as, escorted by her father, T. A.
Tabart, sec. of the Y.A.T.C., she paced the
red carpeted aisle of St. John’s, Toorak, to
keep her tryst with Alfred Ernest '' arbur-
ton, son of A. Warburton, of Auburn, Ihe
bride was sheathed in white satin that melted
into expansive tulle flounces and train. More
tulle was anchored by a wreath of small
green leaves over her waved coiffure, and
her posy was of orchids framed with lilies
of the valley. Maidens four, in green georg-
ette frocks of differing tones, dipping about
the instep and fashioned with long coats,
were in attendance, carrying great bunches
of creamy water-lilies and wearing shady
golden lace straw hats. The quartette com-
prised the bride’s sister Pixie, her cousin
Wanda I‘iesse, from the Apple Isle ; Roma
Smith and the bridegroom’s sister Girlie.
The service was choral, and the bells rang
out as the 200 guests motored to the Tabart
residence at Malvern. The Turf was well
represented, and to Ben Chaffey was given
the honor of proposing the toast of the
newly-weds. ,
Florence, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
A,. E. Boyes, of Hawthorn, and niece of
Stephen Morell and his lady, was a bride of
last week, the lucky man being Frederick,
son of the Arthur Glovers, of Camberwell.
The bridal array was white satin asparkle
with crystal and pearls, gleaming through a
cascade of Brussels lace that served as veil
and train. The three bridesmaids, one of
whom was Sheila Morell, carried yellow roses
against apricot chiffon frocks that dipped to
the ankles at the back. Smart gold lace caps
crowned their coiffures. Congratulations
were said at No. 9.
The establishment of the C-W.A. Rest
Home for the tired wives of struggling
settlers is assured. Sufficient funds have
been cajoled from citizens as the result of
a collection campaign by the younger set
to finance the purchase of a Sandringham
property. Having put its shoulder to the
wheel the youthful band of workers intends
giving it some extra turns, so that the
accommodation for guests in the building
will be larger than was originally proposed.
To provide a Christmas treat for the child-
ren of the Royal Victorian Institute for
the Blind, the Footwarmers will stage a
dance with some unique cabaret numbers
on November 29 at Ormond Hall. Tickets
can be obtained from Nell Wimpole, 157
Fitzroy-street, St. Kilda.
To keep pace with the fashions these
days requires the agility of an antelope and
a bank balance as big as a whale. A few
days ago it was decreed that bag and scarf
must be of the same material. Then an
umbrella to match was added ; and now when
that trio is stabilised, as the economists
say, a Bourke-street emporium has thun-
dered forth the edict that shoes must be
in unison. The new footwear doesn’t seem
very serviceable, but it will look pretty with
light sports frocks if the fashion endures
till the season settles and summer continues
to behave itself as such. Scarves and hand-
kerchief shoulder drapes flourish exceedingly
among the flappers, but how long the mode
will last nobody can say. There’s one crumb
of consolation in the outlook. One of the
leading shops, finding trade not up to the
usual pre-Cup mark, has cut the prices of
its model gowns to less than half.
Coming overland from Adelaide Baron
Somers got a welcome which showed him that
he was not regarded merely as a high official.
Carefully shepherded by Davidson (who still
takes himself seriously) the Gov. managed
to keep off the men of ink who wanted to
ask him some harmless questions about the
health of George V., racing, polo and so
forth. Possibly somebody was afraid that
a scribe might ask his Ex. if he had backed
up Deputy Irvine in his decision to grant
McPherson a dissolution. Anyhow, it came
out later that Somers concurred with Irvine
that, given supply, there was no objection
to a polling flutter. At the Cabinet lunch
given in his honor Somers met a fellow-peer,
Viscount Craigavon.
Commander J. B. Carslake, R.N., who
brought the new flagship Australia from
Blighty and has been in charge for a year,
left for England in the Orvieto with his
wife. Mrs. Carslake was born in Brisbane,
but went to London at a very early age.
She renewed acquaintances in Australia
after an absence of nearly 30 years. The
crew gave Mrs. Carslake an inscribed silver
salver and tea service and a posy of lily of
the valley. The presentation was made
aboard the Australia on the eve of the Cars-
lakes’ departure, the youngest tar being
deputed to make the speech.
Mrs. Keith Miller, the first woman to
fly to Australia, has been adding to her
laurels in the U.S.A. She lately won a 1000-
dollar prize in the National Tour for the
Ford trophy. The plucky little Victorian had
to push a ’plane through 15 States, and
visit 32 cities.


DRUMMOND’S EXCLUSIVE JEWELLERY
Magnificent Diamond and Sapphire Brooch, set
Platinum,
£375
Fine Pearl and Diamond Brooch,
£BO.
Diamond Bar Brooch, set in Platinum,
£55
Diamond Ring,
with Diamond-set
Shoulders,
£35
Circle Ring, set
with 25 Brilliant-
cut Diamonds. Best
value in Australia,
Lady’s Pure Platinum Wristlet Watch,
set with finest white diamonds; highest-
grade fully-jewelled lever movement,
£lOO
Calibre-cut Dia-
mond, with Dia-
mond-set shoulders,
Diamond King,
set in Pure Plati-
num,
£65
Magnificent Dia-
mond Ring, with
Diamond-set
Shoulders,
Diamond Ring,
set in Platinum,
£35
Diamond Bow Brooch,
£l5.
Calibre-cut Dia-
mond with Baton-
cut Diamonds, set
in shoulders,
£l2O
Two-Dianiond Ring,
with Diamonds set
on shoulders,
£35
d
l’he Platinum Wristlet Watch illustrated has
a diamond-set fly-up protector over the dial,
operated by pressure. The 18-jewel lever
movement is the production of the famous
“Longines” Watch Factory, and is fully
guaranteed by Drummonds.
Illustrated Watch Catalogue on application.
Mm. Sntmmonb & Co.
JEWELLERS
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
TECHNICAL BOOKS
FOR ALL TRADES
Price. Postage.
Farmers’ Handbook. New Edition, 1929. Published by Dept.
of Agriculture, N.S.W 10/6 Bd.
Model Making. Including Workshop Practice, Design and Con-
struction of Models. Yates 15/- Bd.
Painting and Decorating—Working Methods. Textbook for
Apprentice, Journeyman, Housepainter and Decorator 12/6 9d.
The Human Figure. J. Vanderpoil 20/- Bd.
Cost of Power Production by Internal-combustion Engines. Burls. 6,/6 4d.
Operating Engineer’s Catechism of Steam Engineering. Gornston. 16/- 6d.
Producer Gas. J. Dowson 26/- 1/-
Gas and Oil Engines. Treatise on Design, Construction and
Working of Internal-combustion Engines. By H. Allen .. 16/- 1/-
Practical Up-to-date Plumbing. Clow 7/6 6d.
Reinforced Concrete Construction. Elementary Principles.
Andrews 10/- 6d,
Concrete for House, Farm and Estate. Ballard 10/- 6d.
Sewerage Works. F. C. Temple 7/6 4d.
Galvanising. Theoretical and Practical Treatise. H. Bablik 16/- 9d.
Dynamos and Motors. Practical Testing. By C. Smith 10/- 6d.
Concrete Roads. Their Construction 6/6 6d.
House Painting. Decorating, Sign-writing, Gilding, etc. By
Ellwt 3/6 4d.
Cellulose Lacquers. Practical Handbook on their Manufacture. .
Smith 9/- Bd.
Dyeing Silk. Mixed Silk Fabrics and Artificial Silks. Ganswindt 16/- 7d.
Dyeing of Cotton Fabrics. Handbook for the Dyer and Student.
Beech 16/- 9d.
Aerial Navigation and Meteorology. Comprehensive Treatise in
Simple Language. By Yancey 20/- 1/-
Ornamental Designs and Illustrations. For the use of Engravers,
Designers and Lovers of Art. Bergling 15/- 1/-
Engineer’s Year Book of Formulae, Rules, Tables, Data and
Memoranda for 1929. Kempe 36/- 1/8
Handbook of Building Construction. Data for Architects’ Design-
ing and Constructing Engineers and Contractors. Hool and
Johnson. In two vols. • 60/- 3/6
Aeroplanes, Seaplanes and Aero Engines. By Captain Sumner . . 30/- 1/2
Modern Wood-working Machinery. By S. Ransome 19/- 1/-
Preparatory Mathematics for the Building Trades. Bay and Doub 6/6 4d.
Reinforced Concrete. Concise Treatise. By Marsh 15/- 9d.
Audel’s Handy Book of Practical Electricity, with Wiring
Diagrams. Ready Reference for Professional Electricians and
all Electrical Workers 20/- 1/-
Electric Control Gear and Industrial Electrification. By W. Wilson 30/- 1/3
Workshop Operations and Layouts for Economic Engineering
Production. Gates . . 10/- Bd.
Motor Cycling. J. Wyatt 3/6 4d.
Electrical Equipment of the Motor Car. By Moreton and Hatch 21/- 1/-
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
TECHNICAL BOOKSHOP,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
“TOO-OLD”
TIRED-OUT
MEN
HERE IS A SIMPLE INEXPENSIVE REMEDY
Too-old, tired-out men, complaining
of lack of vigor and vitality, you
will never be fit, well and happy until
you face facts. Your trouble in the
true sense is trouble, starting
at the kidneys. The kidneys may be
said to rule the body’s health. When
the kidneys are failing to keep the
blood-stream pure, poisons and waste
matters accumulate. Thus, with an
impure blood supply surging through
the body, poisons are lodged in the
muscles, joints, etc., and every tiny
nerve centre calls out in pain. That
is why your “nerves,” as you say,
are on edge. The impure, sluggish
blood makes you tired, weak and
lacking in the vim and vigor to enjoy
work and pleasures.
This Remedy Bears
a Guarantee
There is a remedy for this depressing,
health-destroying state of affairs, and
a very simple remedy, too, that will
bring you health and happiness, as
for thousands of others. It is no
secret. It has been known for over
40 years under the name of De
Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
Tens of thousands of people have
tested this remedy and found it reli-
able in all cases of Loss of Vitality,
Lumbago, Weak Back, Sciatica,
Bladder Weakness and Kidney
Trouble. Go to your chemist now and
secure a supply of this inexpensive
yet invaluable remedy. The 3/6
you spend will be the best investment
you will ever make. There is a
larger, more economical size at 6/6.
Ask him to tell you candidly his
opinion of this famous remedy. He
will tell you all about the table of
ingredients printed on the box, and
why they are so good for you.
JUST ONE FROM THOUSANDS
OF LETTERS OF GRATITUDE
Mr. Alfred Wall, 7 Walter Street,
Yarraville, Victoria, writes: “For six
weeks I lay on my back with rheuma-
tism, aching pains in my back, lum-
bago. I was told I could not be
benefited. A friend of mine told me
about De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills and I started on them. I do
not regret it. I am now in perfect
health. I have told several people of
the little “De Witt’s” bottle and of
my return to health.”
r
r
II
%
m.
sa>.
ml
.'-vo
V//.
De Witt’s Pills is not a new craze-of-the-moment remedy. For 40 years
it has been bringing health, vigor and vitality to over-worked, tired-out men
and women. It is recognised as a splendidly beneficial remedy in cases of
Rheumatism, Chronic Backache, Sciatica, Lumbago, Bladder Weakness, and the
nervous troubles and pains that accompany excess of uric acid in the system.
The very young, the weakest and the oldest can take De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills. No dangerous drugs or purgatives, no heart-exciting chemicals,
but a scientific preparation that will do you good from the very first dose.
Get “De Witt’s” and get health and happiness. In 24 hours you will see
results. This is our guarantee.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, because of their wonderful popularity,
have been imitated. Other kidney pills there may be, but for your own
health’s sake and your pocket’s sake refuse all imitations.
J
KIDNEY
AND
BLADDER
p


The COMMONWEALTH LIFE (Amalgamated)
ASSURANCES, LIMITED.
JAMES S. INCH, F.A.1.1., General Manager.
Authorised Capital - - - - £500,000
Paid-up Capital ------ £150,000
Annual Income Exceeds - £140,000
Payments to Policy-holders Exceed ----- £60,000
Every desirable form of Policy issued in the following departments:—
LIFE, ENDOWMENT, AND GUARANTEED BONUS POLICIES.
PERSONAL ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS, WITH NURSING AND HOSPITAL BENEFITS.
INDUSTRIAL ASSURANCES.
All Ordinary Policies subject to Guaranteed Interim Bonus.
E. H. HIGGS, Secretary.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
The Block, 424-30 George Street (between King and Market Streets), Sydney.
JA
LEIPZIG SPRING FAIR (GERMANY).
Incorporating Great Engineering and Building Fairs.
BEGINS MARCH 2nd, 1930.
BUYERS GOING ABROAD must visit the Leipzig Trade Fair, the
'vorld’s largest Manufacturing, Industrial and Engineering Exposition.
Introductions arranged. Full information free on request to —
JA
Authorised Representatives: C. N. KEPPEL, c/o Marcard Lund & Co., Box 585 D G.P.0., Melbourne.
LARS G. BRUNDAHL, 6 Dallev Street, Box 3127 P G.P.0., Sydney.
a kJ
!“
STOP
Backache
and
Rheumatism
This hs
sjVtay
m
y
sd
Keep your blood free from uric acid, and age-
ing pains will not molest you—Rheumatism,
Backache, Swollen Joints and other tortures
cannot then rob you of your healthy activity
and strength. The reliable, guaranteed way
to get rid of the harmful pain-causing acid
is to take Harrison’s Pills, bearing the sig-
nature of a London doctor. Harrison’s Pills
dissolve the uric acid crystals which lie along
the nerves and muscles, torturing them with
every movement you make. When you take
Harrison’s Pills you feel the ageing aches
and pains glide away; you feel strength and
health return. Hundreds of testimonials. A
hospital nurse writes :
To Amalgamated Laboratories, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—You might be interested to know that
the success of Harrison’s Pills in treating Kidney and
Bladder Troubles, Backache, etc., has been such that
1 have recommended this remedy to scores of patients,
and 1 can testify , definitely to their unusual efficacy
and great value for use in these painful troubles.-
( Signed ) Sister B. Piper.
Decide NOW to rebuild your life —to get rid
of Rheumatism, Backache, Kidney, Bladder,
Urinary and Uric Acid Disorders! Get a
package of Harrison’s Pills from the nearest
chemist. Three sizes :• —18 pills, 2/-; 32 pills,
3/-; and 68 pills, 5/-. Take as directed, and
if not pleased with results from the very first
bottle —money back!
The
Genuine
Uric Acid
Remedy.
&®Ss?>rs
They
Definitely
Remove
the Cause *
Amalgamated Laboratories,, Kembla Building , Sydney, and all High-class Chemists.
MELBOURN
|£ ING ’S THEATRE,
WHOOPEE.
~ \ \'l \
You Need
ZAM-BIK
In Your Home
So many dangerous complications
threaten after the simplest mishap that
a quick, safe healer like Zam-Buk is
indispensable. Children are always
cutting their heads and knees, house-
wives get burns and scalds, and the
husband at his work or sports faces
the risk of blood-poison every day.
Pain and inflammation are quickly
allayed by Zam-Buk. This great anti-
septic balm kills bad germs, prevents
festering and blood-poison, and grows
new skin Never be without Zam-Buk.
There is nothing “just as good.”
This great herbal ointment “Keeps” longer
than lardy ointments. It is unequalled for
eczema, acne, bad legs, ulcers, poisoned
wounds, scalp disease, ringworm, piles, etc.
1/6 box & 3/6 family size. Zam-Buk Medici*
nal Soap 1/- a tablet. All chemists.
GET A BOXTODAY
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’s Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: SHOW BOAT.
CRITERION. LOMBARDI, LTD.
PALACE:
J.C.W. WORLD’S ENTERTAINERS.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres. Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
* MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
ROYAL: HOLD EVERYTHING
JVJEW COMEDY THEATRE,
LEON GORDON in
BREWSTER’S MILLIONS.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
A MELBOURNE.
See and Hear Fox Movietone Special,
PLEASURE CRAZED.
ALSO
See and Hear PHYLLIS HAVER as
SHADY LADY.
(Children under 16 not admitted.)
BROS.’ CIRCUS.
Greatest Show on Earth.
GRAND JUBILEE YEAR.
OLYMPIA, MELBOURNE.
Positively closing November 19.
ALL NEW ATTRACTIONS.
Including the Greatest Pure White Polar and Brown
Bear Act in the World, at a cost of £5OOO.
Positively seen at Every Performance.
Prices: 2/-, 3/-, 4/-, 5/-; Chairs, 6/-, plus tax.
Reserved Chairs, 8/-, plus tax.
Plan at Glen’s.
Nightly at 8 p.m.
Matinees: SATURDAY, WEDNESDAY and all
HOLIDAYS.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distingushed Sociel Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
As the result of the Nursery Rhymes
Fete, at Government House, the committee
asked Lady Goodwin to hand a cheque for
£2300 to the president of the Creche and
Kindergarten, Mrs. A. E. Moore. Her Ex.
was in blue and white crepe de Chine and
Mary-blue hat. Cloth-of-gold roses, given
by Mrs. Ross Munro, were presented to
Lady Goodwin and also to Mrs. Moore, the
latter wearing grey and silver-striped mari-
ette, with a touch of cherry on her grey hat.
Mrs. Scott Fletcher, president of the Nursery
Rhymes committee, wore mastic with an
Oriental vest, and paribuntal hat.
Cromer, Toowong, oucc the home of the
late Charles Holmes a’Court and now the
residence of Mr. and Mrs. \V. Grave, was
dressed up in flags, bowls of deep-blue lark-
spur and brass vases of roses, for the garden
party to help the T.B. Soldiers’ Fund. Lady
Goodwin, in blue and white crepe de Chine,
was welcomed by Mrs. Jolly, Mrs. Grave
and Mrs. C. Taylor. Nellie Money handed
her Ex. a bunch of pink larkspurs and roses,
and a vice-regal march composed by Miss
Miller was played. Mrs. Jeanette Smales
arranged the musical programme, and there
was croquet and fancy dancing, and bridge
in the lounge.
The Premier opened the Caledonian Fair
in St. Paul’s kirk, and Mrs. Moore gleaned
blossomry and a box of sweets from May
Fern and Iris Abrahams. Etta Young judged
the home-made cakes and jams, and the Men-
zies clan supervised the tea, at tables decked
with gladioli. Pipers played.
Mrs. Cecil Palmer had a verandah party
to view the Albion Thousand, at Palmerosa.
Amongst the guests were Captain and Mrs.
Roskruge, Dr. and Mrs. Neville Sutton, Mrs.
Harry Mort and Madge Cullen. On the
lawn at Albion Park were Mrs. A. H. Whit-
tingham, in mastic and cocoa-brown check
ninon and biscuit paribuntal hat. Mrs.
Barnes, of Canning Downs, was in nattier-
blue ; Mrs. E. T. Bell was in black; Mrs.
Leonard Woolcock in wedgwood blue and a
red hat, and Cecily Cadell Garrick in blue
and white. Eileen Moore wore a sleeveless
gown of periwinkle blue and a beige hat.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Mr. F. Stevens handed only daughter Mar-
jorie into the safe keeping of William Gavan
Duffy at St.
Patrick’s,
Havelock-
street. T h e
wedding gown
was of palest
pink satin
with a pointed
bodice and
yoke of silk
net, where
gleamed th e
b r ! i degroom’s
present, a true-
lovers’ knot of
diamonds. The
veil was of
Limerick lace.
Grace Gavan
Duffy ’maided
i n shell-pink
georgettes and
a picture-hat
and carried a
bouquet of
foses and fern. Two small attendants, Joan
and Betty Everall, were like two blossoms
blown from a plum-tree in their flounced
muslins. Bardwell Clarke made the portrait.
High-pitched arguments and vain remon-
strances rattled the tiles on suburban villas
during the week preceding Inter-school
Sports Day. The decision to hold the girls’
sports on the same day was the bone of con-
tention. On Claremont Show Ground, where
the girls tried conclusions, Perth College won
the title of champion school and Sacred
Heart High School’s representative, Miss F.
Sullivan, was champion athlete. On the
Cricket Ground the muscles of C.B.C. proved
the brawniest. Mrs. Freeth smiled en-
couragement on her husband’s school in
russet and brown patterned chiffon whose
points touched her ankles. Mrs. Stileman
wore a coat of fawn marocain. The back-
ground of Mrs. Walter Saw’s shantung was
navy, and the same smart shade was chosen
by Mrs. P. G. Hampshire for her jersey silk
jumper suit. Patsy Regan was in all black;
Mrs. V. Gibbings (on a visit from the
F.M.S.) wore a Lido-blue and white jumper
suit; and headmaster Anderson’s pretty
daughters, Flora and Mary, flew Scotch Col-
lege colors on blue and green foulards.
A luxurious sedan of British manufacture
was a birthday gift to Lud Mayor Franklin.
His Ex. handed over the key, the 'license and
a scroll bearing the names of contributors.
Afternoon-tea was served round a marvellous
three-tiered cake with the tower of the Town
Hall modelled on the upper tier, and 75
candles were blown out before the cake was
cut.
The Mayoral Ball at Temple Court was a
huge success. Supper was served in. a
bedecked and transformed garage in the
basement, and birthday greetings were
showered upon the Mayor at midnight. Mrs.
Franklin wore gold net over cherry satin
and Miss Franklin chose lilac. The Mayor’s
prize for best fancy-set went to the Painted
Dolls. The unemployed will benefit from
the proceeds.
A breath of Scotland was wafted about
the lofty pillars of St. George’s Cathedral
during the marriage of Marjorie McCulloch
and Dr. C. W. Courtney. The ’groom and
the best man, Robertson Smith, who hail
from the stern wild land, wore kilts, pipers
piped, and the bride’s bouquet of Easter
lilies and carnations contained a sprig of
heather from a Scottish moor. The bridal
gown was of ivory niuon over dawn-pink
and the veil a swirl of tulle. Bride’s sister
Betty attended, carrying a posy of corn-
flowers against her orange and gold chiffons.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
After an assortment of dirty weather that
included snow, hail and rain, it turned out
fine for the Show, and the lawn looked very
bright and attractive. Tweeds and semi-
sporting styles were in favor with feminine
visitors. His Ex. arrived with a mounted
escort at noon, and Margaret came later.
There was a record attendance, and the
entries for the Grand Parade made a new
record. Among the women competitors in
the ring events Barbara Bennett and Is..
Mercer distinguished themselves. The
O’Grady presented medals for acts of hero-
ism during the floods in Launceston last
autumn to Sergeant \V. R. Taylor and Senior-
Constable A. H. Jackson. _ The exhibition of
work in the women’s section was of a high
standard.
The Newnham R. C.’s meeting at Mowbray
(Launceston) was a very successful affair,
and well attended in spite of uncomfortable
weather. Most of the women were in wintry
garb, and there were plenty of fur coats and
fur-trimmed tweeds to be seen. The J. J.
Gatenbys were in the throng with daughter
Barbara, also Mrs. Guy Meredith. The
Allan Stewarts, L. Von Steiglitzes, G. Mar-
tins, Rolphs,'Bruce Gibsons. Mrs. R. Green.
Mrs. Geoff Grubb, Mrs. E. Greene and Miss
S. Youl.
Jean Spong, pictured here by Burgess
Watt, has a delightful little studio in Eliza-
beth-s treet,
where many
examples of
beautiful
handier aft.
the work of
herself and her
pupils, are, to
be seen. Deco-
rated wood,
hand weaving,
tooled leather,
paintings in oil
and water-
color, raffia
work and
“Ratho” pot-
tery, definitely
Tasmanian in
design, are 1o
be found there.
At the recent
A rts and
Crafts show
Miss Spo n g
made a fine display. She is contemplating
a trip to the Old World to study the pro-
ducts of oversea people in her own line.
St. John’s kirk saw the wedding of
Gwenda, fifth daughter of the J. Z. Biden-
copes, to Charles Neville Hope. The bride’s
dress was of ivory lace and georgette with
long sleeves and a cloud of tulle falling from
under a Limerick-lace veil, held in place by
a chaplet of orange blossom and white heather.
The bouquet was of Madonna lilies. Two
young sisters of the bride ’maided in flared
frocks of lemon georgette with fantail backs
to the skirt and hats of summer felt in the
same shade of lemon yellow. They carried
sheaves of mauve wistaria. There was a
reception afterwards at Ellerslie, the Biden-
eopes’ home.
r
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The Free Kindergarten Union being a
fashionable charity the Prince of Wales
Theatre was crowded when Heather Gell’s
pupils gave a demonstration in eurhythmies.
Mayoress Bonythou and Director of Educa-
tion Adey were there. Sales of sweets and
flowers helped to swell the funds. One of the
most appreciated items was “The Pied Piper
of Harnelin,” with Audrey Simpson as the
piper, and tiny boys in black bathing suits,
on all fours, as rats and mice. During the
“Story of Persephone,” Madame Carys
Davies-Denton sang a number from “Alceste.”
St. Peter’s College Mission fete was held
in the new Memorial Hall, with the usual
financial success, due to the fact that the
stallholders are numerous and most gener-
ously buy from one another. Mrs. H. H.
Dutton did the opening, and the college boys
put up a record in the consumption of ice-
cream.
Governor Hore-Ruthven is following the
example of the Prince of Wales, and inviting
every Y.C. in the State to dinner on Armis-
tice Day. Travelling expenses will be pro-
vided if asked for.
Sir Dudley and Lady de Chair have just
paid their first real visit to Adelaide, and,
of course, Lady de Chair was charmed with
the hills.
Knight William Sowden and his Sydney
bride have issued invitations for a garden
party at Castlemaine, Victor Harbor. A
50-mile drive will keep down the attend-
ance unless the guests make a week-end of
it. The house is prettily situated on the
Hindmarsli River.
AT THE BACK OF THE NORTH WIND.
Darwin.
The Canberra steamed in one morning
when the sea was a brilliant ultramarine
and the sky a royal blue and the trees the
brightest of green, forming a splendid setting
for the long grey cruiser. She berthed at
the pier, which is a bit shorter than the ship,
and during her day and a half’s stay her
sailors had the time of their lives. Picture-
shows, dances and picnics kept them going.
The Victoria League staged a dance for the
officers, and there was a cricket match, won
by the home side.
Birdum, the very newest terminus of
the unfinished Southern line, celebrated its
first marriage last month, between Elsie
Main and G. Whitehouse.
The railway picnic was held at Adelaide
River. The trains were well filled and many
travelled by car. Races for bipeds and
quadrupeds kept the ball rolling.
The Marella’s passengers made up a team
too. and a match was played during her stay
in port. The local lads were again victors.


LOVELY
LAKELAND
Where the ocean surf booms on
miles of white beach, where the
rolling, green-mantled hills
slope into the mirrored blue
of the sea there, sunlit
and sparkling, stretch
the Ginpsland
Lakes, a string
of glittering
jewels in a
setting of
green
and
gold.
Consult the
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU
QUEEN’S WALK, MELBOURNE.
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
The Wonder Watch of the Age
Vi Wearing Winds it !
Simply wear it as and when you will upon
your wrist and it goes and Never Stops. Off
your wrist, it will keep going for 34 hours.
It is Dustproof, Damp-proof and cannot Over-
wind. No wonder folk hail as the latest,
greatest, and final refinement in watchmaking
The Harwood
SELF-WINDING
Wrist Watch
Sole Agents for Australasia: ARONSON & CO., (PTY.) LTD., HOLT HOUSE, YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
I
head, stretch his neck or sit upright for
even a few seconds! At the most he could
just prop himself on his elbow; and the
floor was hard and nailheads protruded.
“I’d like to catch the cow what built this
butter-box!” he muttered violently.
Ten minutes later approaching voices told
of the two men returning. Sandy ran a
finger above his head and managed to
locate the lid of the lock. He fingered it
feverishly. If only he could discover how
it worked, he might possibly jump out along
the road. The lock appeared of simple
construction; but was too stiff to twist with-
out the aid of power.
“Nice little ’bus you bought, Pratten.”
The voice seemed muffled.
“Yes, cost me three hundred and twenty.”
“M-mm, lot of money. Balloon tyres—
eh—and oversize too!”
“Yes, makes a difference in the speed,
somehow, the agents reckon. She’ll do over
sixty if I want, it. How’s the road from
here to Lowood?”
“Pretty rough. All right after Lowood
for about ten miles, then boggy as blazes.
You’ll do well if you strike Toowoomba
to-night.”
“I know. That’s why I got an early
start. Oh, well, so long—see you again!”
The engine roared. The car shot for-
ward with a dislocating jolt and Sandy
Jackson cursed viciously and settled down.
Mr. Pratten decided to hurry. He crossed
the bridge and then accelerated. The car
had plenty of reserve power and leapt for-
ward eagerly. Mr. Pratten was an in-
different and inexperienced driver, and pre-
ferred to hit bumps and swear against the
Main Roads Com-
mission than drive
steadily and bless
the Commission for
such roads as
existed.
At Lowood he met
an old acquaintance
who wished to go
to Toowoomba.
“Yes, hop in.
Plenty of room!”
“Huh! Plenty of
room!” Sandy mut-
tered. If only he
could move!
The jounrney was
continued. The
friend was convivial
and had a bottle of
whisky.
“Have a drink,
Pratten?” he in-
vited ; and Pratten
had two.
Later on the in-
vitation was re-
peated.
“Road’s getting a
lot better,” Mr.
Pratten declared
jovially. “Think I’ll
let the little ’bus
out.”
“Yes, let her go,”
his friend advised
eagerly. “Bet you
can’t run circles
around fifty.”
Mr. Pratten ex-
p a n d e d his chest,
gripped the steering
wheel firmly and
drove as he had
never driven before.
He ran rings around
fifty, gave a queer exclamation of delight
and commenced to try to run circles around
sixty.
“Thought I heard some silly coot yelling
out to stop!” the passenger shouted in Mr.
Pratten’s ear. “Can’t see him, though.”
“You’ve got whirligigs in your head!”
Pratten shouted.
“Well, I heard—there it is again. Better
pull up.”
“What—stop on a road like this?” Mr.
Pratten shouted and chuckled. “The engine
is not out yet.”
He drove faster.
The car almost flew. Small undulations
showed on the road, but speed carried the
car over them. Mr. Pratten crouched to-
wards the wheel and shouted in glee.
“Get to Toowoomba to-night? We’ll be
there in another hour!”
He had spoken; but much too soon. A
sudden bend appeared in the road ahead.
Mr. Pratten made sudden darts with his
hands in almost every direction at once.
He tried to stay the car by pulling back-
wards hard on the steering wheel. The
brakes screeched, the wheels skidded and
the curve loomed up—far too quickly. The
car shot over a rut and thumped into an
embankment of soft clay.
Broken glass tinkled down through the
body and on to the ground. The engine
was silent. Mr. Pratten lay flat up against
the bank, rubbing his chin in a dazed
fashion and his friend sat serenely in the car.
“D—d—damn!” Mr. Pratten cried rue-
fully. “What a car to sell a man! You
c—c —can’t p—pull the d—damn thing up!”
He supported his face in his hands. “Phew
—I feel all shaky!”
“She’s slightly busted,” his friend answered
casually as he alighted and stood before
the silent car. “Radiator lopks like a
buckled shield. Near side front wheel’s
like a drunken perambulator Anyway,
what the blazes are we going to do?”
“Twiddle our thumbs. I’m beginning to
feel like a drink, and the bottle I had is
busted!”
“I’ve got a bottle in • one of my bags,”
Pratten announced, got unsteadily to his
feet and grimaced with pain. “Hell I
got all the bruises!
Here, open the
back of the car
and get out the
bottle-opener. 11
should be in a
little canvas roll.”
He tossed a heavy
bunch of keys over.
“'Will I swing the handle, Mister?'”
Jack walked slowly to the rear of the
car, paused, fiddled with the keys and picked
the largest of the bunch. He inserted it in
the nickelled lock, twisted one way and an-
other and then gave the lid an upward jerk.
“Well, I’ll be scuttled!” he shouted. “Say,
Pratten, what’s the joke? What the devil’s
the meaning of—of this?”
“Meaning of what?” Pratten shouted. He
hobbled quickly to the back of the
car and glanced in. “Well, I’ll be jiggered!”
he announced breathlessly.
The two men looked first at each other
and then back into the car again.
“Honestly, .Jack,” Pratten gasped and
waved helpless hands, “I didn’t know I had
him. Think he’s dead?”
Jack leant forward and ran his hand over
Sandy Jackson’s person.
“His heart’s still kicking a little,” he
announced; “but how did you get him
there?”
“I didn’t get him there!” Pratten pro-
tested. “He asked me for a lift—this morn-
ing early—and when I refused he must have
got in while my back was turned and I
must have locked the darn lid down on
him. Hell!”
Jack turned and commenced to try to
raise Sandy Jackson.
“He’s had a bad bumping,” he said; “but
how did he fit in the space—that’s what
I’d like to know?”
Sandy Jackson looked a sorry picture. A
cut on his chin was weeping through his
stubbly beard. His nose bled furiously from
the bridge and a large cut showed across
the top of his forehead. His cheek was
covered with grease from some unknown
source.
“He’s a wild, hairy-looking beggar,” Jack
remarked.
“We’d better get him out,” Pratten de-
clared, still in a nervous tone. “He looks
bad.”
With a great deal of careful manipula-
tion they prised Sandy Jackson out and laid
him carefully on the grass beneath a tree.
“Still got a breath in him, anyway,”
Pratten announced in great relief. “By gum,
the poor fool must have wanted a lift
badly. I wouldn’t have refused him had
I known.”
They fanned the unconscious man, poured
whisky between his lips and waited pati-
ently. Presently a low groan escaped, and
then a mumbled sentence. The man opened
his eyes and stirred.
“Doodle-oodle-oo!” he muttered. “Gawd
blimey!”
“I should think so,” Pratten admonished
him. “What do you mean by it?”
“Mean by what?” Sandy asked dazedly.
“Hopping in the back of the car like
that?”
“What?”
“Hopping in the car, I said.” Mr. Prat-
ten was growing violent.
“Huh! Couldn’t get no work in Bris-
bane,” Sandy muttered.
Mr. Pratten and Jack remained silent.
Sandy Jackson commenced to rally quickly.
He shifted his body and tried to rise. He
propped himself on an elbow.
“What happened, Mister?” he questioned;
and wiped his grim face with an exploring
hand.
“New car,” Pratten explained. “Didn’t
know much about the bally thing and
took the corner too fast.”
“Where are we, anyway?”
“About four miles from Lowood,’ Prat-
ten answered again and wondered why he
was not being severe.
“Huh!” Sandy grunted. “Well, what are
we goin’ to do about it?”
“Goodness only knows,” Jack answeied.
“Suppose we’ll have to tramp back to Lo-
wood and get help.”
His suggestion was adopted. Sandy Jack-
son felt a little weak and shaky; but would
not be left behind.
“I’m hungry,” he declared, “an’ I reckon
it’s up to you birds to do me a feed, con-
siderin’ the way you been treatin’ me.
Somehow Pratten did not feel inclined to
refuse the claim. He helped Sandy Jack-
son on to the road. The man called Jack
got the other side, and, supporting him,
they commenced to walk back towards
Lowood.
CHAPTER 111.
Sandy Scores a Job.
Three mechanics went out from Lowood
in a ton truck, wrestled with the buckled
front wheel and put a new one on. The
proprietor of the
garage told Mr.
Pratten quite con-
vincingly that the
spare wheel had to
be robbed from a
new car of the same
type—at a price.
Mr. Pratten paid
in pound notes; and
at two o’clock in
the afternoon was
ready to continue
his journey.
But Jack had
changed his mind.
“I don’t think I’ll
go to Toowoomba,”
he declared good-
humoredly. “To tell
you the honest truth,
I don’t quite like
your ways with a
car.”
“Oh, don’t you!”
Without another
word Pratten turned
to climb in and dis-
covered Sandy Jack-
son standing still
hatless before the
dented radiator.
“Well?” he said
sarcastically.
“Bonzer—in fact,
I’m feelin’ splendid,
Mister,” Sandy re-
plied quickly. He
appeared like a lost
being. His forehead
was criss-crossed
with sticking plaster.
He looked cheerful;
but not quite com-
plete. Perhaps it
was because he had
no hat. Perhaps it
was because he pos-
sessed no feature
conspicuous enough
to match his great
ears. The three
mechanics were
highly amused.
“Drive over him,” one suggested.
“Shut yer face!” Sandy snapped and
looked at Pratten. “Will I swing the
handle, Mister?”
For answer Pratten stepped on the self-
starter and a second later Sandy was in
beside him.
“Just what is the idea?” Mr. Pratten
questioned sharply. “Haven’t you caused
enough trouble already?”
“Mister—l’m goin’ to Toowoomba!”
Mr. Pratten gasped and heard a laugh
from behind. He let the car into gear and
drove along the Toowoomba road.
The car was roomy and Sandy Jackson
stretched his legs. The wind blew his
scraggy hair all awry, and he twiddled his
thumbs and hummed a jerky tune. He
felt quite substantial. The man called
Jack had sported him a downright feed and
two long beers. He would remember that
(Continued on next page.)


Quee* Anne
Shape.
o
Strength with Beauty
HINA of such fairy-
lightness as a Shelley tea
set might well seem too deli-
cate to facethe riskof servants
hurried handling. Yet the
quality of English Bone China
is to have a toughness that
makes it far stronger than its
thin, translucent substance
might suggest. The name of
Shelley on every piece stands
for strength as well as beauty.
Ask to see the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets*
Morning Sets
Dainty White
'• China
Nursery Wars
Zy Lucie Attweu
& Hilda Cowham
Dome stic Ware
Jelly Moulds
• •umn mmjb
CM CASC OP AMY DIFFICULTY IN OttTAININO
WAITS TO
T*V.HIATH e CO. LTD,
a33.Ct.AR.ENCe *T.
• ml
Missing Friends.
JOHN HUTTON RITCHIE, son of the
J late John Ritchie and George&n Ritchie,
of Geelong, Victoria, last heard of in Perth,
W.A., in September, 1905, is requested to
communicate with The Union Trustee Com-
pany, No. 383 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HOBART
INVITES
YOU-
to indulge in the joy of a
holiday amidst the con-
genial surroundings of
Australia’s natural health-
resort,
TASMANIA.
Perfect climate, fertile soil,
rivers, lakes, mountains
and harbors.
Fruit and flowers grow in
profusion all over the
island.
HOBART,
Australia’s most beautiful
capital, is the Centre of
these charms.
The Zealandia (6000
tons) is now running
regularly between Sydney
and Hobart.
Particulars from
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU,
Ocean House, 34 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Educational.
SCOTCH COLLEGE,
TORRENS PARK, MITCHAM, S.A.
A BOARDING and DAY SCHOOL for
Boys. Headmaster, N. M. G. Gratton,
8.A., Dip. Ed. (Melbourne). Professional,
Commercial and Agricultural Courses.
Prospectus and further particulars may be
obtained from the Headmaster or the Sec-
retary, W. D. C. Paton, F.F.1.A., A.M.P.
Chambers, Adelaide.
a
P
v
f.
v-
To England for £3B Only!
IN comparison with the fares paid, the new “Bay” Boats offer you
accommodation second to none.
“BAY” BOATS ARE ONE CLASS ONLY. This means that
although you pay a very low fare, you enjoy full use of all the
spacious decks, with plenty of room for games and exercise. The
dining saloon and all public rooms are at your disposal.
CABINS.—In the new “Bay” Boats you select your cabin when you
book. You have the choice of 23 two-berth cabins, with windows
opening on to the promenade deck. Two- and four-berth cabins
on other decks. The accommodation is situated in the best part of
the ship—not confined to the after part, as in vessels carrying
more than one class.
MEALS.—Evening dinner is provided in addition to breakfast,
lunch and afternoon tea.
Travelling to England in an improved “Bay” Boat costs less than
Id. a mile, board and lodging included! There is a cinema, and
music is provided by a panatrope. Route—via Ceylon, Egypt and
Malta. Children under 12 half fare.
FREE!
Write for full particulars and illus-
trated booklet, sent free and post free.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
15 Bent Street,
Sydney.
ABERDEEN AND
COMMONWEALTH LINE,
17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
And in all Capital Cities.
man Jack’s face. As for Pratten, he wouldn’t
sport a crumb to a starving chicken.
Sandy Jackson commenced to take stock
of this chap Pratten. He saw a man of
middle age, slightly heavy and corpuleiß
in build, with rather puffed features.
“As soft as a cushion,” he mused to him-
self. “I’d like to swipe him one.”
“Where do you want to be dropped?”
Pratten asked gruffly after a few miles had
passed.
“Just how far you goin’?” Sandy asked
innocently.
“Longreach—maybe Cloncurry, if the rain
holds off,” Pratten answered with the in-
tention of impressing his companion.
“Huh! Longreach—maybe Cloncurry.
Mister, I’ll strike a deal with you—fair an’
square. I’ll keep this car in good clean
trim; sleep in it o’ nights so’s it won’t be
stolen, open all the gates, be general Jack-
on-the-nob-quick-an’-lively. I want two
square feeds a day—er—m with beer, an’
you can drop me at Longreach—maybe
Cloncurry. Cloncurry preferred.”
“I’ll think it over,” Pratten answered.
“Better hurry,” Sandy advised, “or I’ll get
out an’ walk.”
“Eh?” Pratten twisted and gaped. “Don’t
talk bunk!”
' “Dinkum. Drop me or take me. Decision
right now. Take me or drop me. I’m a
quick business decider. Doodle-oodle-oo!”
“What the?”
Mr. Pratten swore and drove faster.
At Grantham he got out and glanced
across the road to a hotel.
“Certainly, Mister, I don’t mind,” Sandy
said quietly.
“Eh—what?” Mr. Pratten snapped.
“Thought you said somethin’ about a
er—m drink,” Sandy declared innocently.
“I said nothing.”
“But your thoughts did—they said you
was thirsty.”
Mr. Pratten relaxed and chuckled. “Oh
well,” he said.
Drinks were served and Mr. Pratten fell
into earnest conversation with the publican.
Ten minutes later he missed Sandy Jack-
son and returned to the car. Sandy had
cleaned the dust and mud splashes from
the undamaged portions of the body and
stood beside the open door as stiffly as any
chauffeur. He looked ludicrous in his huge
coat. His hair stuck up in spikes.
“’Hop in, Mister!” His voice was snappy.
The car leapt forward suddenly—Mr.
Pratten had not yet fully mastered the
gears. Sandy twisted around, waved through
the back of the car and exclaimed: “Doodle-
oodle-oo!”
“I say,” Mr. Pratten asked steadily,
“would you mind explaining to me just
what you mean by that nonsense?”
“Pleased to learn you anythin’ in me
power,” Sandy answered. “When a bloke
says good-bye to his cobber what does he
say?”
“All depends. Usually I just say 'See
you again,’ or words to the same effect;
probably because I’m a traveller and am
always seeing people again.”
“An’ the bloke what saw you off in Bris-
bane this mornin’ said 'So long!’ ”
“He usually does, I think,” Mr. Pratten
answered.
“And your Missus?”
Mr. Pratten grunted. “Well, I think I
just usually tell her to look after herself.”
“Thought so,” Sandy declared gleefully.
“1 say 'Doodle-oodle-oo!’ What’s the blanky
difference?”
Sandy Jackson yawned. The car com-
menced to climb the Toll Bar on the range
below Toowoomba. Pratten changed gears
noisily. Sandy commenced to sing.
“One by one, an’ two by two,
Doodle-oodle-oo!
All the monkeys from the Zoo.
Doodle-oodle-oo!”
“Look!” Pratten swung round with the
exclamation. “Shut up!”
“All right,” Sandy answered in an injured
tone. “All right, all right; hold yer
breath.”
In Tpowoomba Mr. Pratten stopped the
car before a hotel which seemed to be the
resort of commercial travellers. He drove
the car into the back yard and almost
knocked over a boiler and stand. The sun
was setting and a gong sounded inside the
building. He glanced at his watch.
“I’ll make arrangements for you,” he said
in a sudden business-like manner. “You’ve
to watch the car —all night. There is an
old overcoat under the seat if you ffeel the
cold. I want to see the ’bus bright and
clean in the morning. You’ll have to dig
up cleaning rags the best way you can.”
“Use me pocket handkerchief,” Sandy
answered cheerfully. “And don’t forget—
glass of beer,” Sandy reminded him.
Mr. Pratten did not answer.
Darkness settled down quickly ovei
Toowoomba. A coolness crept in with it
The back yard of the hotel was small; but
Sandy discovered that after closing time
in- the bar it became the habitation of
drunken men. He noticed one man alone
for a considerable period. Experience told
him that the man was almost drunk, yet
trying to keep quiet. He was searching
heavily about for a place to lie down and
sleep.
“Good-night, Dig,” Sandy addressed him
cautiously.
The man shambled forward, peered un-
certainly at the car and shook his befuddled
head.
“ !Shat you, Bill? ’Ow ’bout drivin’ me
’ome?”
“All right,” Sandy answered with quick-
ened interest. “Hop in—better put them
bottles on the seat between us. Won’t
get broke there, see! That’s right.”
The stranger entered awkwardly, almost
collapsed into the seat, leant back and
closed his eyes. A minute later he slumbered
heavily.
Sandy took one of the bottles and ex-
amined it closely in the starlight. Rum.
He managed to open it, drank a little and
coughed.
“Dinkum stuff all right,” he murmured.
“What else?”
On investigation he found that the
stranger had presented him with two bottles
of lager and one of rum. He sampled the
lager and grunted approvingly. Then he
climbed quietly from the car, lifted the
engine bonnet and placed the bottles care-
fully in beside the engine. For a few
moments he paused and thought deeply,
then he approached the back door of the 1
hotel kitchen. A middle-aged woman stood
just within, stirring something in a bowl.
She started a little at the sight of Sandy. I
“You can’t get a drink now,” she said j
severely.
“Ain’t after one,” Sandy retorted glee-
fully. “I’m Mr. Pratten’s shuffer, and there’s
a great hobo as drunk as a tick in the ’bus,
an’ I can’t ’ject him. Better tell Mr. Prat-
ten.”
The woman turned and called into a dark
passage. “Flora! Flora! Tell Mick he’s
wanted here.”
A little later a large and powerful man
entered the room. He was almost brutal
in his bigness.
“Mick,” the woman greeted him, “there’s
some fool got in Mr. Pratten’s car. Better
sling him outside.”
Mick grunted and shuffled heavily out
into the back yard. Sandy Jackson followed
him, but kept well in shadow. Mick leant
into the car, gave the sleeping man a tug
and hauled him out.
“Hey, Bill, wash”
The unfortunate man’s protest was
genuine, but cut short. He was propelled
towards the fence and shoved through the
high iron gateway on to the footpath. A
padlock closed behind him and he was com-
pletely blocked from entering again.
“Where’s me beer?”
The ejected man pounded on the iron
fence, but no answer met his outburst. Then
step by step he shuffled unsteadily away
into the night.
“Poor cow! Me heart aches for you; but
it can’t be helped,” Sandy Jackson muttered
softly in the car. He had the three bottles
beside him and from somewhere he had un-
earthed the remains of a leg of mutton.
He felt contented. As time wore on he
commenced to mutter foolishly and to
murmur oddly.
“Wha’ll Pratten shay?” he mumbled.
“Funny bird, Mizzer Pratten!”
(To be continued next week.)
Above the City.
I have a flat six storeys high;
My windows open on the sky,
And I can see the sparrows brown
Beneath me: trees are upside down,
And I look out on half the city,
Till I can no more look for pity.
Save children who within the space
Of narrow courts, preserve the grace
Awhile of laughter, I see none
Who seem to joy in all this stone.
LONDON.
D. P. MCGUIRE.
Tea-tree Blossom.
The wide beaches gleam with a glint of
golden money,
The brown nets are tight in the little
fishing ships,
The wind sweeps the heath-plains bringing
scents of honey,
And ruffling the pools on the narrow
sandy strips.
Long since have vanished all the winter’s
stormy terrors,
But a thin, white spray frosts the tattered
tea-tree tips.
For the tea-tree’s out in the wild, wild
reaches,
The tea-tree’s burst into blossom small
and frail,
Painting the air of the blue-rimmed beaches,
From Half-Moon Bay on to windy Aspen-
dale !
There’s a white rain blown to the sea’s faint
edges,
Where Carrum lies with her paths spread
pale;
And the white gulls sweep over whiter
branches
Where Chelsea sleeps ’neath a filmy-
pctalled veil.
The wee, rosy buds that, breaking whitely,
waken,
Look toward the sea with its boats and
crusted piles.
Tangled, tortured branches that the savage
storms have shaken,
Bursting into blossom Over miles, and
miles and miles !
Bursting into sweetness wdiile the flitting
wrens are singing,
And the happy lovers wander down the
sun-splashed, leafy aisles!
For the tea-tree’s out where the sea-wind
races—
The w T ild, red cliffs and the shores are
a-blow!
Its scent stays caught in the little sunny
places
Where the pig-face curls and the green-
lioods grow.
Black liock swims in a haze half-drowning,
White clouds heap on the sky and down
below.
The faint air breaks in a mist of magic
Where Frankston dreams ’neath a drift
of petalled snow!
victoria.
MIYBA MOBBIS


JM>/
Whitest
Purest
Best
These are not idle words, they are backed by the
largest Gin Distillers in the World and guaranteed
by a reputation enjoyed and jealously guarded
for over 150 years ! Gordon’s Gin is produced in
London, England, by the original process of
distillation from the original recipe, the secrets of
which belong to the HOUSE of GORDON and
have been handed down through generations! It
is for this reason Gordon’s Gin has the largest
sale at Home and throughout the World, having
no rival for Purity or Quality*
&
r
&
Gov dl©!®’® ®
GIN
The Heart of a
Good Cocktail
Guaranteed Distilled
in London, England ♦
A'
2m
DRY GIN
pasmLUM
t
TANQUEHAV. GOHPQM EC* l TJ *
m n,
BY APPOINTMENT.
The Largest Gin Distillers
in the World
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
THE PATRIOT
JDIRECTMEDIU^^OMENJ
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. 0. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
SCOTT’S
“RENOWN” BRAND
ROPE, CORDAGE AND
binder twine.
Manufactured at Mascot, Sydney,
by
J. SCOTT, LIMITED.
Head Office and Stores:
163 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 82861. G.P.O. Box 251 DD.
PROVED !
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed. f
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
'■mm
IMake
s
the Finish
Last
Lonj*
er
!
r . , ' -:
1/
*4i
sk ¥^
B
i;
/i
Every
Car Needs
SIMONIZ
Have you ever stop-
ped to realise how
important Simoniz is to
the finish of your car?
It’s just about indispens-
able in the care of DUCO
and lacquers.
Simoniz withstands the tests
of time and weather and gives
lasting protection that is so neces-
sary to make the finish last longer
and keep colors from fading. It
leaves a hard beautiful surface that
lasts for months and stands the wear
and tear the finish usually gets.
Then, too, it’s so easy to keep a
Simonized car looking clean and
bright, as all dust and dirt can be
wiped off with a dry cloth without
danger of marring or scratching the
finish.
Anyone can Simoniz a car, for Simoniz
and Simoniz Kleener are easily applied
with a cloth. Dull-looking, tarnished and
discolored finishes can be quickly re-
stored to their original lustre and beauty
with Simoniz Kleener. Then use Simoniz
for that beautiful lasting protection.
Insist on SIMONIZ.
It makes the finish last longer.
Sold by all Good Motor Houses, Service Stations and
Hardware Stores at 2/6 Small Cans; 5/- Large Cans.
In case you cannot obtain locally, see note below.
M
A
D
E
I
N
A
U
S
T
R
A
L
I
A
sad
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
SIMONIZ
PRODUCT—
SIMONIZ
PENETRATING
GRAPHITE
OIL
“LOOSENS THE TIGHTEST NUT.”
Simoniz Penetrating Graphite Oil
instantly
DISSOLVES RUST,
LUBRICATES CAR SPRINGS,
STOPS CHASSIS AND BODY
SQUEAKS,
FREES GUMMED MOTOR VALVES,
LOOSENS ALL TIGHT NUTS
AND BOLTS.
Sold in handy Boz. can with long spout. Price 2/6.
IP YOU CANNOT OBTAIN SIMONIZ PRODUCTS
FROM YOUR USUAL DEALER, SEND POSTAL
NOTE TO
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS.
MOTORITE EQUIPMENTS PTY., LTD.,
Carlton, Melbourne.
cnrr CAMPI FQ
rixlLl. oHIVIrLFO
0F simoniz and
KLEENER ON REQUEST.
3
n is
AVI
Apply with a cloth


y using a
m
SAFETY RAZOR BLADE
Made of a special steel with extra keen edges
that last and give more shaves per blade.
For all Gillette and Auto-Strop holders.
Agent for Australia: H. E. UTTI.EY,
Margaret House, 282 George Street, Sydney.
Manufactured by Kirby, Beard & Co., Ltd.,
Needle and Pin Manufacturers,
Bavenhurst Works,
Birmingham,
England.
o
&
&
pj/Jdg n c?avc/s' oj c/yxfjg h os/]
The Schrader
Gauge
for Pneumatic Tyres
is Reliable
Motorists more and more
appreciate the comfort and
economy which follow keep-
ing their tyres correctly in-
flated. Thousands of mo-
torists are using the reliable
Schrader Tyre Gauge to
accurately check the air
pressure in their tyres.
Schrader Gauges are
sturdy, dependable, easy to
read, easy to use, and easy
to carry in the motor car.
You can save thou-
sands of Tyre miles
Have your car or tyre dealer
tell you the correct pressure
for your tyres. Then buy a.
Schrader Tyre Gauge, for
balloon or high pressure
tyres, as you will require.
Use it frequently, once a
week at least and before
long trips, to check the ac-
tual air pressure. Always
keep your Schrader Gauge
in your motor car.
Long life to
your Tyres! v
Now you can join the
thousands of experienced r
motorists who keep their
tyres correctly inflated, and
get every last mile of service'
from them.
Sold by Accessory Dealers everywhere
Schrader
Makers of Pneumatic Valves Since 1844
Tyre Valves:: Tyre Gauges
A. SCHRADER’S SON, Inc.
Proprietary Limited
422 Little Collins St.
Melbourne, Australia
miTWotfy
MORE fI.W.
LOCOMOTIVE/ FOR.
INDIA /
Recent orders booked by Armstrong
Whitworth include 23 4-6-2 Loco-
motives and Tenders of the new
standard XB type for the 5 ft. 6in.
broad-gauge lines of the Eastern Bengal
Railway, and the Madras and
Southern Mahratta Railway.
Twelve of these engines for the
Madras and Southern Mahratta Railway
will be shipped in fully erected con-
dition on one of the motor vessels
specially designed and constructed by
Armstrong Whitworth for this service.
Sir W. G. Armstrong Whitworth
and Co., Ltd.
Sales Organisation:
Park House, Great Smith Street,
London, S.W.I, England.
Works & Shipyards - - Newcastle-upon-Tyne
Australian Agents:
GILBERT LODGE & CO.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide.
ml
m
/A
Yl
/t
v
/
* ft
SHIPS MARINE ENGINES LOCOMOTIVES
GENERAL ENGINEERING
M.C.41.
LIFE INSURANCE IS A NECESSITY!
It protects your dependants.
It provides for your old age.
It is a profitable investment.
It prevents sacrifice of property by
providing funds for probate duties.
. To place your Life Assurance
to the best advantage
INSURE WITH
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Assets - - - £73,776,000.
v Large Annual Bonuses.
INQUIRIES INVITED. 1 :i
F. T. BRIDGES, Acting (inimil AJtmager.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Kippax
Bats
y
Patsy Hend i e n, who
selects our Cricket Bats
in England, writes that
the recent shipment con-
tained the finest bats
sent to Australia this
year. Included were:
The Alan Kippax
Autograph 55/-
Walter Hammond
De Luxe 55/-
Alan Kippax Special
Club . 45/-
Alan Kippax Renown,
37/6
Let Alan Kippax Select
one jur you.
N.S.W. Sports
Store,
26-28 Martin Place,
Sydney.
ALAN KIPPAX, Director.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE .... .. .. .. 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. :
if'. E, Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
IT SELLS AT SIGHT.
THE NEW
PROBATE INSURANCE!
Under ordinary conditions £lOOO Probate Insurance costs
the proposer, aged 50 years, over a period of 10 years,
£425/8/4.
The NEW PROBATE policy covers the same
risk for 10 years for £l6O.
Write Pacific Underwriters,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
for full particulars.
r'° #
VICHY
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS” :
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Milled—-Insist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere. ' _
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
The Conqueror.
MARGARET FANE AND HILARY LOFTING
TELL ANOTHER STORY OF
THEIR FRIEND MARTY—THEIR FRIEND AND THE FRIEND OF ALL
THE 'LOO.
MARTY stood patiently behind his coun-
ter while the old woman continued
her tale. It was a tale of small griev-
ances, and seemed more a letting-off of
steam than a serious indictment of her
neighbors and friends. She was frail and
small; some terror brooded dimly behind thy
forced animation of her expression—Marty
could believe that she hadn't really said all
these things to these people; she'had only
meant to do so, and after the event had
imagined that she had said them.
“Of course, you know, Marty,” her brittle
voice went on, “I didn’t mind the girl hav-
ing the frying-pan. I wasn’t using it. But
the way she came and”
The twilight of the shop became suddenly
darker and the old woman turned. In the
doorway a terrible old man stood, his one
eye glaring murderously at Marty and his
customer. Across this old man’s face a
diagonal scar ran blotting out one eye,
breaking his nose, and seaming his cheek in
a deep furrow. He looked like an angry
old eagle standing in a terrible still silence
in the doorway; a maimed old eagle at
mighty war with the world.
The old woman twittered on nervously
for a moment before she paused. “I’m not
in a hurry, Marty,” she said.
Marty’s eyes twinkled as he turned from
her to the old man. “What can I do for you,
Mr. Perrin?” he asked in his best manner.
The old man’s hands seemed to caress his
stick as his one eye loomed out of his livid
face at the old woman. She caught her
breath in the sea of rage that swept across
the shop to her; she became an old wisp of
fear. H'cr frail eyes fluttered from the silent
eagle to Marty. In a moment she was scut-
tling out of the shop to the safety of the
leaving her basket on the counter.
‘Back later on, Marty,” she gasped at the
door.
The old man waited until she was out of
hearing before he looked at Marty. “An
ounce of tobacco and a box of 'matches
please, Marty,” he said in an ordinary
pleasant voice.
These he took, and went out.
Marty chuckled as he put Mrs. Perrinh
basket in safety under the counter. The'
were “a pair of tricks,” those two. Even ii
ms own lean days as odd-job-man and mes
senger he remembered the Perrins beinu
talked about as one of the jokes of the lazy
Loo. That was before the .railway smash
and before the two Perrin boys got killed
in the war.
To Mrs. Perrin, hurrying in her bewil-
dered way through these old streets, tin
joke was not so obvious. She knew this
Loo in and out; had lived here all her life,
and it had always felt like a warm shelter
for her. When Dick, her husband, had the
shop in Cathedral-street, the little place
where Jim and George were born, she
had always been glad to come home to the
Loo; and ever since, through the years of
Dick’s building up the business, the growing
up of the boys, Dick’s retirement and the
boys deaths in France, the ’Loo had kept
that quality of home and welcoming safety
for her.
But now—her frightened eyes glanced over
her shoulder—there seemed to be no wel-
come and no safety for her in the ’Loo or
m the world.
That scene in Marty’s shop just now was
dreadful there was no other word for it.
Her lips quivered as she remembered it. It
really was terrible for him to go on like that
before Marty, A little shadow, a grey shadow
or desolation, seemed to descend upon her
anxious face as she glanced over her shoulder
again and hurried furtively round the corner.
The way the Perrins used to go through
life in the ’Loo seemed good and comfortable
tc them. Even in the early days, when she
had been quite a young woman and con-
sidered rather fetching in a refined way,
Mrs. Perrin had been the boss. Dick hadn’t
minded that; he was a chatty, friendly sort
of man, keen on his business, and he seemed
to take the all-round bossing he got from
her as a. pleasant relief from the work and
responsibility of the business. Indeed, he
seemed rather proud of being ordered about
by her, and to like it more and more as
time went on. After he sold the business
and retired he spent a good deal of his
time telling the ’Loo what a shocking bully
the missus was and laughing comfortably
about it.
. ,®, ut Pride in her and the “devil of a
life” she led him was nothing to his pride in
Jim and George. There really was no way
to stop him talking about them when they
got into khaki. So far as old Perrin was
concerned they were the British forces, and
lie saw to it that the whole ’Loo realised
that. Mrs. Perrin sat on him steadily about
it and said he was talking too much; but
she had been sitting on him for years, and he
had only laughed and liked it. There were
his two boys defeating the Boche in France;
that was the strength of it, and it was a
poor go if a man couldn't say a word or
two to the neighbors about it! '
The death in action of both boys within
a week of each other made a heavy silence
in. the Perrins’ corner of the ’Loo, an empti-
ness in the place of all the talk and laughter
and pride.
They got over it as far as they could. He
lost a good deal of his chattiness, and she
put a bit more ginger into her bossing every
now and again. But in the main they carried
on well enough so far as you could see
But the railway smash that had so ruined
his face seemed over the odds after the spin
they’d had. It had become something of a
joke in the way it had worked out, but it
was anything but a joke at the time. Marty
would never forget Mrs. Perrin's trembling
voice telling him about it. She was whisper-
ing and looking over her shoulder all the
time as if she expected it to happen again
any minute.
“I’d just said to him —and you know he
used to talk far too much, Marty—l’d just
said to him, ‘Oh,- do be quiet. I’m sick of
the sound of your voice,’ when —Crash!
And the whole carriage seemed to rear up
on end and all the hatracks and things all
jumbled up -together for a second in a sort
of thunder, with people crying 0ut.... And
then it all vanished. I thought I had died
until I found myself in bed in the hospital.”
Old Perrin had taken her at her word.
Never a word had come out of his lips to
her or in her presence since she had told
him she was sick of his voice. She wouldn’t
hear it again, he promised her.
After their spell in the hospital—besides
his battered face that made him look so
murderous, one of his legs was injured and
became powerless every now and again—sue
wasn’t the boss any more. It was not pos-
sible with a man who just glared at you
until you talked yourself dry, and . then
walked out. He never did anything but this;
just sat and looked at her with one savage
eye until she stopped. With the neighbors,
once they got used to his face, he was his
pleasant and affable self; but even when his
leg gave out and she had to lead him home
he wouldn’t speak to her.
It made all the difference. She lost all her
airs and graces and became by degrees the
terrified slave of this old man whose only
weapon was his silence. All the life went
out of her. She hurried like an anxious
shadow about the ’Loo, hungry for a word
from him, and never getting it.
Mrs. Dennis slipped into Marty’s shop for
a tin of tomatoes, and Marty turned from
an unconvincing pyramid of spaghetti boxes
to serve her. There was a smile in her tired
eyes.
“What’s up, Mrs. Dennis?” he asked.
She chuckled. “It’s those Perrins,” she
told him. “They get a laugh out of me every
time I see ’em.” She put the tin into her
case and took her change. “The old man got
stuck at the bottom of Riley-street as I was
cornin’ along—that leg of his went crook
and wouldn’t budge. He stood there like a
stuffed image, staring at ail the neighbors as
if he’d have loved to shoot the lot.”
She snapped the lid of her case shut and
leaned on it, chuckling abstractedly again.
“Yes?"’ Marty prompted.
“Of course, I saw what was up and was
goin’ across to help him. But Miss Libby
got there first and was just takin’ his arm
—you know the way he goes like a wooden
idol when his leg's crook —when Mrs. I*.
comes tearin’ round the corner like the wind,
grabs him, and leads him gently away." Mrs.
Dennis laughed outright. “And there was
the old man glarin’ at the pair of ’em with
his one eye, Mrs. I*, glarin' at Miss Libby
as if she thought she was tryin’ to pinch
that old oil-paintin' off her—and Miss Libby
glarin' back at the pair of 'em. I had to
laugh.”
“Yes. She doesn't care about the neigh-
bors taking her job of getting him home.”
Airs. Dennis picked up her case. “It’s
about all she gets out of the old devil. Fair
dinkum, Marty, if my old man treated mu
that rotten, I’d —I’d skin ’im.”
In effect, this last threat implied the
general opinion of the ’Loo. In the case of
the Perrins the ’Loo’s strict theory of the
“fair go” was being wantonly disregarded;
and it was felt and said that something ought
to be done about it. And probably the ’Loo
would have gone on feeling and saying this
for ten more years had not Fate intervened
and killed Mr. Bane.
Mr. Bane had been the brother of old Mrs.
Orton, who roomed in the same Palmer-street
house as the Perrins. In life he had hated
his old sister; but, Death taking him un-
aware, the law of intestacy had balanced
this by presenting Mrs. Orton with his small
mixed farm and a moderate sum of money.
She came downstairs to the Perrins’ sitting-
room in the evening to tell them about it.
Mr. Perrin naturally received the infor-
mation in silence, Mrs. Perrin being present.
But she was in a flutter of excited con-
gratulation over Mrs. Orton’s good fortune.
“Well, I dunno, my dear.” Mrs. Orton
folded her hands and looked quite unexcitedly
at Mrs. Perrin. “Of course, it’s a nice little
place and James worked real hard to bring
it on as good as it is. There’s a lovely lot
of fowl-runs and a big vegetable-garden
that’ll grow anything, and a couple of acres
of grazing. It’s a real good place all round.
But I dunno. It’d bo lonely for me. And
I'm pretty old, in a way.”
“Yes, I suppose there is something in
that,” Mrs. Perrin said with sympathy.
“There’s a lot in that. It’s a small place
and easy to run with a bit of help now and
again, hut it’s more than one old woman
could do on her own.” Mrs. Orton’s folded
hands and placid face seemed to be ex-
pressing some significance beyond her words.
“I don’t feel like taking it on on my own,
and that’s a fact, my dear.”
“Not take it on!” Mrs. Perrin exclaimed,
sitting up very straight. Even Mr. Perrin's
eye seemed to blink in angry protest.
“Well, I was thinkin’,” Mrs. Orton looked
from one Perrin to the other and paused,
“how would it be if you two kissed and made
friends and came up with me to Baloo and
we ran James’s bit of a place together? No
obligations, as the sayin’ is—we’re none of
us paupers and there’s the place and here’s
us.”
She allowed her offer to trail into silence
while her placid eyes watched Mr. Perrin.
She didn’t see the light of warm hope flashing
into Mrs. Perrin’s eyes nor their eager turn-
ing towards him. The silent eagle glowered
at them for a moment before he rose and left
the room.
A slight flush sprang suddenly to life
under Mrs. Orton’s eyes as she turned to
Mrs. Perrin. “Well, that’s a pretty way
to take it, I must say. Not that I expected
any different. Now, Nelly Perrin” —Mrs.
Orton became the Voice of the ’Loo —“here’s
your chance, and you see that you make the
most of it. You come up to Baloo with me."
She sat triumphantly back in her chair.
Mrs. Perrin blanched. “What —alone?
And leave him here to look after himself?
I couldn't do that, my dear.’'
Mrs. Orton explained to her in a tran-
quil, persistent monotone how she could do
it, and how for her own sake she must do it.
And for his sake, too —this cruel silence was
only a fad now, but what might it not lead
to in an elderly man who had had his shocks?
This leaving him would bring him to heel
and they would all be happy again. Or if
they were not all happy again, “good enough
for him,” she added, breaking the tran-
quillity of the monotone.
Something of Mrs. Perrin’s bossiness of
old came to life under this steady onslaught.
She tossed her head and agreed. Mrs. Or.on
■was too old to go up to a lonely place forty
miles from Sydney and try to run a poultry
farm ; she ought to have a companion. And
that companion should be herself. After
all, it was a very friendly, nice, thing for her
to offer. And she had her pension from the
two dear boys. But her heart was wishing
fervently that old Mrs. Orton could have
had two companions. What would happen
to Dick when his leg went wrong, for
instance? Through Mrs. Orton’s detailed
description of the place, her suggestions for
poultry-stocking and her arrangements for
the taking-over, Dick’s leg persisted in estab-
lishing its tragic importance. After Mrs.
Orton had gone upstairs full of plans and
looking younger than she’d seen her this ten
years, Mrs. Perrin sat on, thinking of Dick
and Dick's leg. A small tender gleam shone
suddenly in her eyes as she stood up with
something of an air, to put out the light and
follow Dick up to bed.
:J: * * *
Marty and his comprehensive acquaintance
in the ’Loo was an important part of Mrs.
Perrin's scheme. The twinkle flickered into
Marty’s eyes as she told him about it.
“You see, Marty,” her low voice went on,
“if I could only get him to speak once to
me, I’m —I’m sure it would be all right,
and we should all be happy again. If it was
only two words it would be a sort of—of a
talisman, I know, and he’d come up to
Baloo, and”—'her courage ran out for
a moment —-“it would give him an object,
something to live for, pottering about with
poultry. And it was so kind of Mrs. Orton.
I don’t like her to think that lie’s”
“I think it ought to be easy enough, Mrs.
Perrin. It'll mean a lot of running about
after him for you, though.”
“I’m used to that, Marty.”
“Well,” Marty smiled at her, “I think you
can leave the neighbors’ part of it to me.
They're just to leave him high and dry?"
She sighed. “That’s it, Marty. And I’ll
be near, and when the neighbors have gone
quietly away there’ll only be me for him to
turn to.”
“I see.” He looked gravely at her. “I’m
sure it’ll be all right, Mrs. Perrin.”
“Thank you, Marty,” she said, flushed sud-
denly, and went out.
Date in the afternoon at the foot ot
Palmer-street old Perrin’s leg “gave out on
him.” He was only a few doors from home,
but there he was, stuck, until some_ hand
ould guide his arm and lead him the first
e\v steps. He turned his head towards Mrs.
Xavanagh, who was passing; but she looked
is if she had never seen him and turned
ound the corner. Mr. Dobbs, too, stared
inck at him, and shuffled off before Mr.
’efrin could speak. Mrs. Dennis stopped
hurt as she came round the corner, and
urned round and went back again. Pre-
sently tlie street was unaccountably empty,
save for old Mrs. Perrin standing a few T
yards from him and looking half at him and
half into Mrs. Nixon’s window display of
lollies and fancies.
tie glared ferociously at her, but she was
obviously unconscious of his predicament, if
not of his existence. A black rage seized
him; all of him except his leg trembled with
fury. He continued to glare at her, the
tide of his anger suffocating him, and she
continued in her absorbed ignorance of his
existence.
One word, Dick, one little word!
The westering sun was hot and full upon
his face, empurpled by this insult, this
wanton neglect. He was desperately uncom-
fortable as well as beside himself with rage.
So that was the game, was it? Well, let the
best man win. But what a hide! To leave
him stuck up here, while she For a
space he bore it, his fury boiling up and
down his veins and the sun blazing steadily
into his face. Let the best man win. But,
my God —-—
A violence seemed to surge down his being
and to whip his leg into action again, as if
it, too, were on fire with indignation. It
moved.
Not troubling to glare at her again, he
walked across the street as indifferent to her
existence as she had been to his. She
saw him open their gate and disappear into
the house.
One forlorn tear slipped down her cheek
as she stood at Mrs. Nixon’s window for a
moment. It had failed, tie had been so
(Continued on page 57.)
YOU DON’T KNOW
what to send your friend for a Christmas gift. To-day The Bulletin
prints the opening chapters of “Merry Christmas!” one of the highly com-
mended stories in the Prize Novel Competition. You couldn’t send anyone
a more appropriate Christmas gift. No story ever written gives a more vivid
picture of the great cattle country of the North or a truer account of the way
it is worked and the men who work it. The opening chapters will reach
England and most overseas countries just before Christmas. Send us your
name and address, with the name and address of the friend to whom you
want it forwarded, and we will post it with your compliments and good wishes.
Overseas, three months, which will complete “Merry Christmas!” 8/-;
to any address in Australia or New Zealand, 7/-. Six months (which will
include Vance Palmer’s “Men Are Human”), 15/6 (overseas) and 12/6
(Australasian). Twelve mdnths (which will include also two prize storie
in the next Bulletin £2OOO Novel Competition), 30/- and 24/-.


Hanking, Public Companies, etc.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares . . . . . . 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares . . . . • • 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
a t interest for
fixed periods
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 985,000
£2,235,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,485,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
AUSTRALIANS visiting Loudon
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they Can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
W\t
£4£
<Eegt0tcr
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & lIUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, S 2 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CHUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISHAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAH ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CHUB
N.Z. GOHF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POHO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World's Heading
Advertising Agencies.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Shipping, etc.
7 '”uep
m
NOW you may see Hawaii
and shoot the breakers
in the matchless surf
of Waikiki Beach. And no
more desirable holiday can
be planned than a Union
Company Excursion Tour to
Hawaii that lovely island lost in the South Seas, lazy and laughing in
sunshine. Canadian-Australian Liners, now commencing summer excursion
runs, will carry you with comfort and enjoyment through calm seas, opening
the fascinating book of travel at New Zealand, Fiji and Honolulu. Plan
to sail on one of the following dates:
November 14
December 12
January 9
February 6
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINE
Excursions to Hawaii
.# *
*
—* ~
i***>*uu^.
-
-w---
rSTSL-fiC
'
_Ai
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
JAVA
(The Wonderland of the East).
OLD BUDDHISTIC AND HINDUISTIC TEMPLES—NATIVE BAZAARS.
EXCELLENT BIG-GAME SHOOTING. BEAUTIFUL TROPICAL SCENERY.
EXTENSIVE TEA GARDENS. INTERESTING PEOPLE.
Regular monthly sailings by the favorite vessels
“MARELLA” (7500 tons) and “MALABAR” (5000 tons).
The Beautiful Solomons
Full of interest and romance and situated only seven days’
steaming n.-e. of Sydney. The comfortable and popular
S.S. MATARAM sails from Sydney on November 13 and
December 21, visiting 30 picturesque Island Ports.
ROUND TRIP 41 WEEKS. FARE £4l
Write for Pamphlet No. 52/8 to
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
sad
s
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30. 1928, £88,982,585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
554 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.’
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - 4,200,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - - - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,678,025 0 0
DxVGctOTS •
GEORGE JUDAII COHEN ( Chairman ) ;
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND; Major-General
the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHVRST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
BRISBANE, viaBYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening ; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. YVOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afteinoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/6/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/■
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerL
: .
lilt
Magnffioent
Faat Papsengei
Steamship;
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDAHT PARKER LI MITE 9
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
✓vvr
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&CIm.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office}: 44 Bridge Streei. Sydney.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
BIU
BRITISH
MADE
Per Section
F>mK: RUBBER
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals r ith every subject of
interest to women.
Experimenting
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary Experiments?
Cut Waste and
Advertise with a
“Result-Bringer”
the telegraph
BRISBANE
Has proved itself for
over 57 years a good
“Result-Bringer” for
all Advertisers.
Cbe Celegrapl)
newspaper Co. ltd.
Queen & Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane.


BRITAIN’S MOTOR MASTERPIECE
For those who appreciate fine quality and are satisfied
with nothing but the best, the Sunbeam is invariably
the selected car.
For the Australian market all Sunbeam cars have a
standard track, a ground clearance of 9in. at the lowest
point, special springing for comfort over all roads, and
a specially large radiator and fan to ensure adequate
cooling under all conditions.
Write for catalogue to any of our authorised dealers, or to the
Company’s address as below.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
Export Dept.: 12 Princess Street, Hanover Square, London,
W. 1, England.
Cables: “SUBEAMOCO,” London.
Works: Wolverhampton, England.
AUTHORISED DEALERS:
SYDNEY:
William, Hill & Cameron, Ltd.,
91-97 Flinders Street.
PERTH:
Arthur Bales, Ltd.,
367-371 Murray Street.
MELBOURNE:
The All British Motor Co. (Pty.),
Ltd.,
104-10 G Russell Street. ,
ADELAIDE:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.
69 Wavmouth Street. 1
Sunbeam
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Let HILLIER ’S
he your Father Xmas!
In the famous Red Box—posted to you the day they are made.
HILLIERS
ADDO£SS-
-
162-166 Pitt Stileet
/
3/
s YHP N £
PR.ICES
5/6. 6/ 10/. 12/6.
20; aaoL 30/
(PATPN)
blind with rage that it had started his leg
again. She dried the tear and looked deso-
lately at the gate he had just shut. But
presently she tossed her head. Very well.
She had done her best. She would tell
Marty it had failed, after all his kiudness.
But the end of the week would find her at
Baloo, feeding fowls with Mrs. Orton, and
that was the end of it.
Marty was sympathetic when she came to
tell him about it. What worried him was
that she didn’t seem to care. She thanked
him and went out, her head up, much as
it was in the old days.
Deep in thought, Marty took a perfectly
good frill off the neck of the ham and put a
new one on. There ought to be a way.
Old Perrin came stumping in on the
morrow for his ounce of tobacco, and Marty
was obviously glad to see him.
“I’ve been thinking, Mr. Perrin” —he put
the ounce on the counter —“there’s a good bit
of yard to our place here, about twice what;
I want for storing and cases and that.”
Mr. Perrin’s eye looked at him. “Well,
Marty,” he said, “what about it?”
“Well, it ought to be used. I was wonder-
ing if I knocked up a bit of a run, whether
it wouldn’t be an idea to keep a few fowls
there. The missus and Little Feller’d be
glad of a real new-laid egg now and again;
and tbere’d be the table-birds for the small-
goods. I’d get the feed wholesale, and there’s
plenty of scraps. What do you think of it?”
Old Perrin thought it was a very good
idea.
“My trouble is,” Marty went on, “what
birds to get. One says one kind’s the best
and one says another, and they’ve all got
good arguments about it!” He took three
paper-covered books from under the counter.
"Here’s a cove that swears by Buff Orping-
tons ; this fellow swears by Silver Wyan-
dottes ; and this one won’t look at anything
but White Leghorns. Between the lot of
’em you don’t know what to do.” Marty
turned the pages of the first book, his face
puzzled and troubled. “I’ve skimmed over
these books, but I can see that it wants
more than that to get the strength of it.
I was wondering”
He paused and Mr. Perrin looked up at
him. “Yes, Marty?”
“You’re a man used to sizing things up
and getting ’em right, Mr. Perrin, and you’ve
got a lot more time than I have with this
place to look after—l was wondering if
you’d do me a good turn and take these
books away and study ’em for me. I could
depend on your advice, and I don't believe
I’ll ever get round to it myself, not to go
right into it, as you could.”
Mr. Perrin was gratified. Not often was
his advice asked seriously now. “Yes, I’d
be glad to do that for you, Marty. I’ll
dig into ’em right away, and come round
and have a word with you to-morrow or next
day.”
Marty thanked him, and Mr. Perrin took
the books away with his tobacco.
* * * *
“Well, now, Nelly”—Mrs. Orton was but-
toning her gloves--—“we’ve got ample time,
so there’s no need to rush and get ourselves
all nervous.” She sat down by the window,
patiently ignoring Mr. Perrin, who was read-
ing a book. “I was talking to Mrs. Dobbs
last night, who’s had a lot of poultry experi-
ence, she was telling me. And she says that
a hot mash every morning”
“Oh yes—everybody agrees about that. 5 ’
There was an unaccustomed animation in
Mrs. Perrin’s voice. “Mrs. Nixon used to
keep fowls, and she says that the hot mash
is the- thing to make the birds lay. And
she says that in buying these birds to-day
we must watch out for”
“Yes,” Mrs. Orton’s calm voice interrupted
steadily. “I’ve had a bit of experience, too,
and / like the White Leghorns. You don’t
get such good table-birds, perhaps, but you
do get the eggs.”
Mrs. Perrin’s expression showed a hint of
disappointment. “Mrs. Nixon seemed to
think that we ought to look out for some
good Buff Orpingtons. They go in for them
a lot on the North Shore, she said, and we
ought to be able to get them cheap at a
sale at Turnamurra. You’re sure about the
train, my dear?”
“Quite sure. We’ve plenty of time. James
always had a fancy for Wyandottes, and he
certainly got good results.”
In the pause Mr. Perrin turned a page
and cleared his throat.
“Of course, we ought to start right,” Mrs.
Orton went on. “And Ido think Mrs. Dobbs
knows what she is talking about. The
hot mash every morning”
“Oh yes. The hot mash is everything”
Mr. Perrin closed his book and glared at
them. “The hot mash is nothing,” lie told
them. “It’s —it’s an exploded theory.” He
stood up and walked over to the hearth-
rug.
Nelly Perrin gasped and looked at him,
all her heart in her eyes. His voice at
last!
His manner was that of a man whose
endurance has been strained to the utmost,
whose superior expert knowledge has been
goaded into expression. “There are fellows
experimenting all over the place on the
theory that the hot mash is only useful in
a cold country—that we got it from Eng-
land. The cold mash, they say, is what is
wanted in this country. And in my opinion,”
he laid it down from the hearthrug, “they’re
right.”
Mrs. Orton’s calm old eyes watched him.
She wasn’t going to show any surprise. Mrs.
Perrin felt a warm confidence filling the room
and the world.
“As for breed,” he continued to pontificate,
“there’s only one all-round bird worth the
feed—the Black Orpington. Perfect layers ;
perfect setters. For the table you cross ’em
with game, and there you are. You get
the weight and the shape given to you, and
you’ve only got to feed ’em right for the
rest of it.”
He walked over to the window, the last
word on the subject obviously said.
Mrs. Orton was impressed. “You seem
to have studied poultry, Mr. Perrin,” she
said. “I didn’t know you were an expert,
or I’d have asked you about it before. I
wish you’d come to Turramurra to this sale
with Nelly and me, and give us a bit of
help.”
Mr. Perrin’s eye glanced at Mrs. Perrin,
who was looking steadily out of the win-
dow, a secret smile touching her lips. “All
right,” he said. “I don’t mind. I’ll just
change me clothes —it won’t take a minute.”
He went out, but Mrs. Perrin continued
her scrutiny of the street. Presently she
turned back to the room. “He won’t make
us miss the train, will he?” she said in a
carefully ordinary voice.
“Lord, no,” Mrs. Orton took her cue.
“Ample time, my dear.”
Yet Mrs. Perrin became impatient. She
went out into the hall.
“Come along, Dick,” she called iu her
bright bossy voice. “Are you going to keep
us waiting here all day?”
“All right, all right, my dear,” his placat-
ing voice came from half-way down the
stairs. “I’m just ready.”
The Wireless Bluff.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD
IN WHICH
TELLS WHY SUVA. WASN’T BOM-
BARDED WHEN THE GREAT WAR BROKE OUT.
THE wireless operator drove his pale,
pretty wife past the palms and flaming
gardens of Suva, herself with the sug-
gestion of exotic beauty as of an orchid. The
horses drew the gharry along the avenue with
gardens on the eastward side, to the west
the tide-bared flats of coral trash and mud-
stones ; past patches of dracena and hedges of
hibiscus; Indians in their first year of servi-
tude and thin as famine ; Indians of long resi-
dence and fat as glue; two-wheeled ox-carts,
fuzzy-headed Fijians, a Tongan girl of the
color of a banana ripened on the palm; white
women in cool linens, and almost too weary
to breathe; Indian women with many rings
in their noses and many armlets and anklets
of silver; black-, brown-, yellow-, copper-
colored faces, all health and . white teeth.
Mark Yates, the operator, saw none of
these things; his eye wearied by repetition,
and his mind dulled by apprehension. The
slender, dark, exotic woman at his side felt
that the apprehension was for her; she
tightened her clasp on his big arm that her
fingers only half spanned, and he looked down
into her face for a moment, very troubled,
and then looked straight forward again at
the tree in the street plantation opposite
the entrance to the wharf where lay the
Navua, the Blue Peter at her after-masthead
and the smoke of ready fires curling from
her funnel, banded black and white. Beyond
her, launches were steaming slowly with
their towage of empty banana sampans mak-
ing back to the plantations on the Rewa
River. All these evidences of a full cargo
and a quick departure increased the appre-
hension of the wireless man ; his fear showed
in his eyes.
The exotic woman felt all his pain again :
her hand slipped from his forearm and
sought his hand, and his fingers closed over
hers.
“Don’t fret, Mark. I’ll be all right.”
“I know, Al. I’m not fretting—only sorry
you have to go back to Sydney alone ; and
as you are, too. And I can’t get away. I’m
done with leave for six months.”
Her pale face flushed a little. “I’ll be
back to you long before then,” she whispered
for his comfort.
He was silent; but hope shone in his eyes
for a moment, and then was gone again; as if
it did not dare to live. lie helped her alight
from the gharry, handling her as tenderly as
if she wore glass; the black, half-naked
porters followed them with the baggage:
Yates and his wife walked down the wharf to
the ship; tongue-tied by the imminence of
s-'paration, they spoke only a word or two
as he installed her in her cabin. On deck
again, they said gocd-bye as if anxious to be
done with it; lie descended the gangway and
talked commonplaces from the wharf until
at last the Navua moved to the stream, and
steamed at half-speed to the opening in the
reef.
Long before the ship disappeared behind
the Cape, Yates left the wharf, walking very
slowly, as if energy had left him, and so
back to the gharry waiting in the steaming
street, and along the green avenue of road to
the wireless station, the seaward edge of the
reef showing in puffs of surf, as of the
finest flour. He was weary of it all: the
Turkish-bath town, with its occasional ex-
citement of a ship’s arrival and departure;
and this now—heart-hunger, with only work
to palliate it.
So Alice Yates went to Australia to bring
life out of the remote possibility of death.
Death was abroad in its certainty, too.
Three weeks before the sailing, the world
war had begun. Australia had built its litjtlo
navy, and had established a citizen army,
the only one of the loose confederations called
the British Empire that thought of prepara-
tion on the land. England, governed by the
myth of the ruling class, with lawyers and
poseurs for mouthpieces, was asleep. Twenty
years before, Britain might have deferred
war for half a century by establishing a
citizen army. Its one good thing was' its
ready Navy—saved from the general drift
and dead rot because a navy has to be
afloat and cannot stay on land to be de-
bauched. And assisting the inevitable war
were flaring journalists of both sides; Ger-
man newspapers as jingo as the English at
their worst; and wild minstrels screaming at
the top of their voices the impregnability of
England and the indivisibility of an Empire
with many marks of disintegration upon it.
But Australia had its navy, small but
modern, to replace the obsolete warships of
the Pacific Squadron. The German colonies
fell to Australian ships; the German Pacific
Squadron, outranged by the Australia, were
on the run from Australian coasts, leaving
even New Caledonia safe, but taking toll of
Papeete, and then making westerly to bid
Fiji good morning with a gun.
In the bungalow of the wireless station
Mark Yates, under cover of the thick viole t
night, opened the door of the spare bed-
room. which had been invaded by hornets,
placed a dish of burning sulphur within, and
closed the door again. The near sea was
motionless or at least without sound • the
silence such that at times a supersensitive
(Continued on next pag-.'.)


m
m
L
£
'tin
m
iIN
rd
i*=
ii!
saat-
\2
m
$2
1
■Every picture
Cells
Stop that backache!
Look to your kidneys!
W HY be a martyr to backache? Nine times
out of ten it is quite unnecessary. Backache,
in common with headaches, dizziness and urinary
disorder, sciatica, rheumatism, lumbago, stone in
the kidney, gravel and dropsy, is frequently due to
weak kidney action. Don’t waste precious time! So
long as your kidneys allow impure blood to circulate
through the system, you cannot hope to get well.
Be quick to strengthen the kidney action by using
Doan s Backache Kidney Pills; they will not fail.
When youi kidneys are well again, take an course of Doan’s to keep them healthy and active.
A MAN’S TESTIMONY.
“r I® Commodore Street, Newtown, Sydney, says:
I had serious trouble with my kidneys for a long time and was
otten veiy ill in consequence. My back ached fearfully and every
movement made the pain worse. I was almost crippled withl the
complaint and often had to take to my bed. The kidney secretions were
very much disordered, being thick and cloudy, with a red sediment. I
also suffered a lot from bladder trouble and my rest at night was
disturbed a good deal. I was treated by a doctor and used all kinds
?/ ™ ei nothing gave me any real relief. One day Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills were brought under my notice, and as they were
spoken of very highly, I bought a bottle and commenced taking them.
They worked wonders in my case, six bottles curing me completely, and
I now feel splendid.”
live years later Mr. Riley says: “I have had no return of my old
complaint since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me. I consider
this remedy saved my life.”
TWO SYDNEY
PEOPLE
CURED OF
BACKACHE
AND KIDNEY
TROUBLE.
A WOMAN’S TESTIMONY.
tf Mrs. S. T. Burrows, 19 Spring-side Street, Rozelle, Sydney, says:
In common with many others, I have nothing but good to say for Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. Some few years ago I was suffering a lot with
my kidneys, and in consequence was troubled with pains across the
small of my back and dizzy feelings, besides having no energy for
anything. One day my attention was called to Doan’s Backache kidney
Pills, and, in the hope that they might benefit me, I got a bottle. After
taking them for a few days, my health began to improve and by the
time I had used six bottles I was completely cured. lam grateful
to Doans Pills for the good they have done me, and hope many will
profit by my experience and use this splendid remedy. I never suffer
with backache now, in fact, feel splendid in every way.”
Ten years later Mrs. Burrows says: “I have had no reason to alter
my good opinion of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. They cured me
some years ago, and I am still well.”
ds
DOANS
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Sold by all Chemists and
Stores.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton Street,
Sydney.
man might say that he could hear the dew
fall ; but at moments there was a susurreuce
that might have been a dying air in the trees,
or a sudden movement in the sea.
The silence deepened Mark Yates’s sense
of . loneliness; he thought niore dully and
resignedly of his wife departed westerly in
the ship, and now quite a hundred miles
away; and so left the bungalow, and walked
over the little, red flowers of the sensitive
grass to the wireless station.
The tall, steel mast, painted, like the
building, in stripes that purported to be pro-
tective, and which only served to make the
station more visible from seaward, was lost
in the obscurity of the night; the station was
in shadow but for the lights in the power
room and one operating room.
Yates’s mate rose as Yates entered, and
took the harness from his head; according
to Yates’s mate, there was nothing doing.
Yates donned the headgear, and began
to call. The ship’s installation was weak in
comparison with the land station, the latter
capable, in times of the best conditions, of
a range over the 1500 miles of sea to Aus-
tralia and the 2000-odd miles overland to
the western shore of the Commonwealth.
There came to him the familiar sounds
of thunder somewhere, rolling loudly in the
waste of ocean ; electrical disturbances that
had not been harnessed, tuned and .educated,
making confused noises as of a stertorous old
man breathing in difficulty—as if the voice
of that untuned spark were struggling with
bronchitis. And then, breaking in upon it.
and quelling it, as eloquence might interrupt
an idiot, the tuned and educated voice of an
intelligence somewhere east, west, north or
south; a spark calling from the sea; vocal
out of the depths, clearly and musically the
note of the middle G :
Ta-t-t-t-tata-a; Ta-t-t-t-ta-ta-a;
Ta-t-t-t-ta-ta-a; Ta-t-t-t-ta-ta-a.
The stertorous thunder broke in on it
without loss ; the tuned and educated, spark
was dominant, and Yates gave his answering
call and smiled to find he was talking to
the Navua. So husband and wife conversed
with the steamer’s operator as interpreter;
and when at last he had to cut off, lie went
back to the work of routine, greatly cheered.
He spoke to the Sonoma somewhere to the
south, making for Pago Pago; and the
Sierra bowling down from Honolulu; and to
yet another ship in the Tasman Sea. Faintly
he heard a Japanese man-o’-war talking only
in code, but with a new telegraphic alphabet,
■whose gibberish grew fainter and fainter, and
at midnight ceased utterly. . Next night the
.ship that bore the operator’s wife to Aus-
tralia was three hundred miles further west-
ward, but still in easy range; and the nightly
conversation followed. His wife was well,
the sea was calm ; she was writing him every
day, and keeping the letter to post at Syd-
ney. The ship had left a lot of sugar at
Lautoka, having been- warned of German
warships; and she was bolting for Sydney
at the top of her speed.
Yates smiled at that; he believed the
Scharnhorst and the Gneisenau to be well
away to the South American west coast, and
lie knew the Australia, which the smaller
and older German warships had a prudent
desire never to meet, was far north at New
Britain, or somewhere in the Coral Sea.
So he talked commonplaces across the
night; and then' suddenly came an inter-
ruption—-brutally sudden and overwhelming;
drowning the little installation of the ship that
was bolting at full speed for Australia. Yates
recognised the interrupters; the installation
that had jambed his conversation was either
that of the Scharnhorst or of the Gneisenau.
It spoke as distinctly as if it were a voice
in the room; he knew that it was not far-
away, and thanked his luck for the posses-
sion of the powerful plant that could talk
across the serf and the continent beyond.
Another note broke in; there were two
ships equally distinct and therefore probably
in close company; they were talking to one
another, and neither was far away. They had
raided Papeete, that much he knew; and
now they were almost certainly on their way
to raid Fiji. He remembered the preparations
that had been made before to take to the hills
at the first echo of bombardment and leave
the unarmed town to chance.
And then inspiration came to him. Turn-
ing- his instrument to a note approximating
that of the Australia, he cut in as if the.
Australia were calling the land-station, and
answered himself at correct intervals.
The powerful German installation tried to
jamb his conversation. He waited and cut
in again; and, at last, the Germans, easily
decoding the “private” code, which was as
public and self-evident as “diplomacy,” per-
mitted liim to talk, occasionally breaking-
in with their own really secret code to each
other as if commenting on his conversation.
It gave them excitement and something to
think about; question and answer seemed to
them to be equidistant. The Scharnhorst
and Gneisenau, apparently 400 miles to
the east-south-east, heard a land-station,
known by them to be 400 miles west-north-
west, talking to the larger and prudently-
dreaded warship, which might be 400 miles
or so north or south. The fictitious con-
versation carried on by the operator with
himself made them very thoughtful.
A vocal spark came out of the sky to say
that liis Excellency the Governor of Fiji
wished to hold converse with his Excellency
the Admiral of the Australian Fleet: anil
the Scharnhorst and the Gneisenau began
to see more difficulty in that projected raid
on Suva, which had seemed so safe and
easy.
His Excellency the Admiral greeted his
Excellency the Governor most cordially;
indicated that lie was out with his teeth
filed sharp for two German cruisers and that
he hoped to see his Excellency later. To
that Yates, as the Governor, replied that
he would be happy to see his friend tlm
Admiral at any time the exigencies of duty
might permit; and the Admiral replied that
he proposed to be in those waters for a
week or two.
No sooner had that statement been picked
up than there was a hurried consultation of
the Scharnhorst with the Gneisenau; a con-
sultation that soon after resulted in a change
of course to one designed to carry them
to the South American coast. Yates heard
them break in, talk for a few minutes, and
then break off, and for a time he heard them
no more.
But, not knowing of any result his dupli-
city might have had, or even that his strata-
gem had not been detected, he sent out an
invitation to the Admiral to dine with the
Governor on Thursday—but two days hence.
The Germans got that too; and they dis-
covered a new turn of speed in their ships
as they dashed for cover.
Still in ignorance of the effect of his pic-
turesque lying, Yates stood by talking to the
Australia that he had created, sticking by
the self-imposed task so long that when he
called the Navua he had no reply, the oper-
ator having presumably given up work for
the night.
That disappointed Yates, but the next
night brought him comfort. He heard the
Scharnhorst and the Gneisenau talking to-
gether, but with an increasing and welcome
faintness as they steamed out of range. At
midnight they were but a whisper of inco-
herent sound; and from that hour he heard
them no more.
Then, Duty being out of range, he called
Love, listening with his headgear for hours,
and hearing all but the thing wanted:
the crackling of another land station, the
faint questions of distant ships talking to
New Guinea ; the stertorous breathing of the
thunder far away.
Night after night he tried to talk to his
wife on the west-bound ship ; and from the
sea-silence that was his answer fear began
to invent new tragedies in explanation. So
came the sixth day, which should have seen
the ship berthed in Sydney dock; and the
cable told him that she had not arrived.
At that Yates became almost crazy. Out
of the chart and the course of the Navua
and the night from which he dated the.silence
of the Navua’s wireless he made tragedy.
His fear-crazed mind could almost prick off
upon the chart the place of her foundering—
lowering to death the exotic little wife and
the child that was to be born. He regretted
the service he had done a community to his
own hurt; while he had been frightening
the Germans eastward, maybe the steamer’s
wireless had been trying to call him, to tell
him of a condition that admitted of help, or,
at least, of the manner of her wrecking. And
lie had done this for a service that under-
paid him ; for a people who rarely gave liim
a word of thanks.
He blamed himself for the deed of citizen-
ship as if it had been a crime; blamed him-
self so that he was coquetting with ideas of
suicide when the bell of the telephone from
the cable-station rang, and the cable clerk
read him the message over the phone:
“Navua arrived two days late. Blew out
steam-pipe, wireless inoperative. All well
on board.”
Ten minutes later the cable clerk tele-
phoned again : “Mrs. Yates: delivered of fine
boy at sea. Both well—wife sends love.”
Even had he neglected duty to think of
love he would have been unable to speak
to the ship; and duty had been done!
And towards Coronel fled the Scharnhorst
and the Gneisenau because Yates, the wire-
less man, impersonated his Excellency the
Governor on the island and his Excellency
the Admiral on the high seas.
Poem in Gold.
Soon, soon, all the slow gold sleepiness of
summer
Will be drowsing every hollow in the sun-
burnt hills,
Tumbling balls of gold from boughs of
dancing wattle
Through the dozing heart of noon til!
every blossom spills
The faint gold thunder of a cloud of dark
gold bees
Into a gold immensity of summer light.
While the slim gold fingers of the wind shake
pollen
Over the great-winged butterflies in shin-
ing flight.
Ah, soon wall the smell of gorse, like sun-
wanned apricots,
From dunes as golden as its own bright
bloom arise,
And the sun draw a heavy scent from ripen-
ing orchards
Hung in a golden haze of heat beneath
still skies....
And we one day, soon, soon will wake to
hear the
Whole honeyed heart of summer stirring
in the rush
Of song with which one bird, passioned with
sunrise,
Pierces the sky’s wide golden clarity and
hush.
MAOKILAND.
UNA CURRIE.
Curlews.
O banshee-birds,
Is there such lack of grief in all my words
That you must bring
Your sorrowing?
You seem to cry,
“Safe though his body, soon his soul will die;
For now he laughs always—
Laughs, glad or bitter, at blame or praise.
This is more callous even than to weep
And wail as we do, breaking up his sleep.”
The moon’s cold mercy soothes my open
room
As with surrounding marble of a tomb,
I let the smooth light flow across
My body, grown too tired to toss;
A drowned man thus
Might rest oblivious
Upon the sandy bottom of a stream,
Beside whose banks tired lovers mourn their
dream,
As if he, drowned there, never dreamt as
they,
Nor learnt that sad hours are the hours
that stay!
0 curlews (maudlin things!),
I love you for your wings,
As I love mad,
High-soaring fancies, howsoever sad.
Now while the ebb is furthest from the flood
You make upon the silver flats of mud
Your tiny footprints gently but as plain
As if you trod the surface of my brain.
The tide will turn, and sleep will come to me,
Washing them out of sight and memory.
; N.A.
FREDERICK T. MACARTNEY.


I ?
WESTING HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency,
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD:,
Qtit-euuliinu a*eiii8 —UUiiDIKS
at UUVKCH, Bris
Street, Weill
CONCORD WEST.
N * WAIR'J
PI. W AL&4
Victorian Ofllce—"Chancery House,” 485 Uotirke Street, Metbourne.
Boiitli Australian Agents: Messrs. EITHER, SMITH & CO„ LT»„ Adelaide. S.A
2f/?e
“BRISBANE COURIER”
IS THE GREATEST ADVERTISING
MEDIUM IN QUEENSLAND
Advertising figures have proved over years thalt both Local and
National advertisers regard the "Courier" as the greatest daily
newspaper published in Queensland.
For the month of August the "Courier" carried almost 1000 cols,
of advertising, or approximately 24,000 inches otf advertising more
than its contemporary
THE “BRISBANE COURIER" IS
FIRST IN CIRCULATION, COVERAGE, ADVERTISING
AND INFLUENCE.
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper. Co., Queen Street, Brisbane.
Rep.: Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street; Sydney. ’Phone: 85007.
“THE AGE"
Established 185 It.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise you do not consider the
money involved as a speculation. You treat
this expenditure as an investment and expect
a reasonable return on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in the
affairs and development of Victoria. Its
present powerful position has been gained by
its literary worth, which appeals to an intelli-
gent public, and by its accurate and complete
news service. These factors, having a direct
bearing on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser looking
for the best INVESTMENT for his advertising
expenditure.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation,
123,533.
Hates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements .
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter state agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price ljd.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King Wißiam Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, SO Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
‘ Cilices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Che mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
carries regularly a far greater total
volume of advertising than any other
newspaper published in Tasmania.
IT is thus, judged by the use made oj
its columns, the most popular
as well as the most powerful of the
newspapers of Tasmania.
JDROFIT by the experience of the
leading national advertisers, and
place “The Mercury” first when
advertising is under consideration.
Average Net Circulation, 20,967.
TT is, undoubtedly, Tasmania’s ablest
1 and best conducted newspaper.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
What's the matter with you ?
You know there's something wrong
with you ? What is it ? Your liver
and stomach upset ? Then you're
More often than not the faulty
functioning of the digestive
organs, brought on by Constipa-
tion, is the cause of Biliousness.
Failure of the bowels to act
properly, results in poison acc-
umulating in the system which
upsets the stomach, giving rise to
biliousness, headaches, loss of
energy and appetite.
These are signals. Take action!
Take Beecham’s Pills.! They
assist nature and keep the system
regular and healthy.
tV»'
J
<>»!
rTy/vV
Fashions Fads and fancies
Every Women Should deed
O/ie
AOS T. R A L I A N
WOMANS MIRROR
ill
m
n
H
■
■ ■■ m
n i
VV>v>-. \
n ■
64
PACES
3
D
Published
6 very
Tuesday
ck>"
0°
AC e ....
ae*V* e ..••••••
*•"
* ft\' ./AceV
O'*
1


<=?
£ >
m
-
6 6
9 9
2
4 our car must excel in efficiency,” said C. W.
■ Nash, and one of America’s most competent tech-
nical groups proceeded to build a car which satisfied
even his critical eye —the smart new Nash <4 400”.
4 ‘The public wants better performance —more speed-
more power- —less waste,” he said. And Twin-Ignition,
valve-in-head, high compression motors achieved the
desired result.
“Make it easy to take care of; then make it easy to
steer,” he commanded. And centralized chassis lubri-
cation, oiling 29 vital points at a touch of a pedal,
became standard equipment on the Twin-Ignition
Nash. A new steering mechanism now ensures the
world’s easiest driving control!
“Now clothe efficiency with beauty,” was his final
suggestion. And the long, low-swung Salon bodies,
the lines of which have already delighted almost
200,000 owners, came into being.
Standard Six from .... .. £375
Special Six from £4BO
Advanced Six from £630 *
SEDANS.
£450* (2 door) £470* (4 door)
£565* (2 door) £580* (4 door)
£620* (2 door) £635* (4 door)
Body,
Distributors for New South Wales:
WILLSFORD, LTD.,
133*134 Phillip Street,
SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W2291 (5 lines).
Distributors for Victoria a,nd Tasmania;
RICKARDS BROS. PTY., LTD.,
567-573 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
'Phone: F3LI4.
Distributors for Queensland and Northern Rivers:
PEELS, LTD.,
407-431 Stanley Street,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
’Phone: J 1561.
Distributors for South Australia and Broken Hill:
AUTOCARS, LTD.,
58-72 Flinders Street,
ADELAIDE.
'Phone: Central 5500.
Distributors jor West Australia:
ERIC MADDREN MOTORS, LTD.,
996 Hay Street,
PERTH.
’Phones: 85610, 87634
TASMANIAN DEALERS:
THE SERVICE CO. OF TASMANIA, 56 Paterson Street, Launceston.
E. MEERMANN, 135 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
BENNETT & GILBERT, Best Street, Devonport.
(31-842)
NASH 40 B
Leads the World in Motor Car Value
