

*
Treat yourself
to an
EASTER
KODAK
Bring home
the fun
in Snapshots
0
w
1
It
KODAK
»
an
/
A.
■=s
'V-
f*t
Treat yourself to a Kodak, and its happy little snapshots will
bring home for you the fun and the friendships and the care-free
spirit of Easter-time,
The New Pocket Kodaks are real holiday models. They embody the latest refine-
ments —are well equipped, compact and sm art —represent excellent value and will give
you good snapshots from the very first.
No. 1 for photographs 2\ x3£ inches. Price, 54/6
No. la for photographs x inches. Price, 60/-
Other Kodaks from 27/6; Brownies, 11/3. Ask for Booklet,
Of all Kodak dealers
•9
379 George Street, and 108 Market Street,
Sydney.
“The Block,*’ 284 ColKns Street, and 161
Swanston Street, Melbourne.
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane, and The Valley.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
662 Hay Street, Perth.
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
"The Kodak Corner,” corner
Flinders Street, Townsville. East Street, Rockhampton.
Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
How “Bracken” might have ended The Prize Plots.
Vol. 50.—N0. 2561.
Wednesday, March 13, 1929,
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


WRITE FOR THE LIBRARY CATA-
V- AND LISTS on all subjects,
free 0 t be orw ' ard ® n application, post
DYMOCtv’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
L.YSAGHT
o
3
R
m
I
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
RES THAT HAVE MADE THE “SWAN” FAMOUS
r
w
The
Fortified
Point
Constant wear on the writing-point would,
in the course of time, break down the
.resistance of even a 14 ct. gold ‘ Swan’
Nib were it not fortified and protected
with the hardest metal known—natural
osmi-iridium.
*
m
Pa
iMkieii
The fusing-on of the
tip is an art per-
fected by nearly
a century’s ex-
penence in
gold nib
manufacture.
Self-Filling
“ Swans”
from' 17/6
Black or Mottled
Also in artistic
colours from
22/6
(Other “Swaits"
from 12/6)
“Fyne-Poynt” Pencils from 7/6
Self-Filling “Blackbird” Pens from 9/-
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., Swan House. London, WX
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depit:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
. 181, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Ask to see the New Coloured “ Swans*”
Swan
PEN
“SWAN” INK —Best for “Swan” Pens and all Pens
KILL THE TYPHOID FLY.
“MUSTDIE”
THE NON-POISONOUS POW-
DER, is Infallible in Destroying
all Insect Pests, but is Abso-
lutely Harmless to Canaries,
Dogs, Poultry; in fact, all
Animals and Man.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
Sold Everywhere. Price 1/*
St
mmrnm
m
mustdi'e*
BOUSE
FLIES
ARE
POTENT
CARRIERS
OF
DISEASE.
The Red Page
Ultima Thule
“BRACKN”
Even its most enthusiastic admirer would
probably agree that Ultima Thule , by Henry
Handel Richardson (Heinemann), is dismal.
Reading it is often like looking at a rainy
week from beneath a wet blanket. It opens
gloomily, continues in gloom with very
scant relief, and ends in terrible darkness.
If your idea of literature is that there is
enough gloom in life without reading about
it, or that a novel should be a means of
escape, a narcotic, leave this book alone!
If, on the other hand, you are not afraid
of life, not afraid of thinking or of the
company of one who thinks; if you feel
that your mentality is strong enough not
to be blasted by any book; if, in fact, you
are not among those for whose peace upon
earth and for whose safe conduct into eter-
nity censorships exist—go to it!
, It rounds off the trilogy collectively called
“The Chronicles of the Fortunes of Richard
Mahony,” the two previous volumes of
which, “The Fortunes of Richard Mahony”
and “The Way Home,” have been explained,
discussed and praised at least twice on
the Red Page. It is the pleasurable duty
of critics and others who take a special
interest in Australian literature to read
those earlier volumes. Others may read
“Ultima Thule” as an entity and with full
enough understanding. It completes the
tragic story of Mahony, a doctor who made
a fortune at Ballarat in the gold days,
retired to the Cold Country, lost his money'
partly through unscrupulous agents, re-
turned at about 50 to face the repellent and
difficult task of beginning practice once
more, began in a too-large house in Haw-
thorn, did poorly, went up-country, did
worse, began to suffer mental disorder, lost
one of his three children, made a dreadful
setting of a boy’s broken leg, went to a
seaside township, did worse than ever, be-
came insane and, after a term in an asylum,
was taken to the small up-country post
office his wife had been forced to secure,
where he died in fearful circumstances.
The trilogy is the most ambitious fiction
(Tort that any Australian has seen .to an
end, and the achievement is worthy of the
attempt. “Ultima Thule” alone is one of
the greatest novels y r et written by an Aus-
tralian. This reviewer has to confess that
he read its first 177 pages with difficulty.
Top cold, too meticulously arranged, these
purposeful incidents. He could not accept
that Mary, the wife, could speak so logic-
ally at such length and in spite of her
penchant for parentheses; Froude, Saints-
bury, anybody can write like that; in dia-
logue it is false. For a great artist, too.
the author handles illiterate speech rather
weakly. If the doctor says “women,”
“women” it is spelt. If another says it,
the spelling is “wimmin,” which, of course,
is the correct pronunciation. The same
applies to “minute—minnif” and other like
words. This sort of criticism may' be con-
sidered carping, but Arnold Bennett has
used it in regard to literature, and, in
regard to literature, the present critic thinks
it is sound. It was the premeditated
arrangement of purposeful incidents, how-
ever, that formed the impression of weak-
ness artistically.
j hen page 177 was passed, and from that
point on for exactly 100 pages the book
tascinated as no like length of Australian
literature had ever done. In that 100
pages Henry Handel Richardson reaches a
height of literary perfection that will not
be easily matched in a field a great defil
wider than the Australian one. The book
is a masterpiece for that great passage
alone. It is a marvellous piece of sustained
brilliance, After it—perhaps his own imagi-
nation gave but—this reviewer could not
again capture the light. Once more came
the old arrangement of purposeful incidents,
blackening, blackening and blackening the
gloom. There were compensations. There
was Mary’s discovery, on page 366, of the
generosity, the hospitality, that is the
noblest as well as the most common char-
acteristic of Australian bush people. The
coming home of Mahony, a shattered thing,
is magnificent literature. The dialogue, too,
has lost its unfortunate tricks, and there
are other virtues as well. But after all this,
the arrangement of those purposeful inci-
dents remains a blemish.
The characters throughout the book, even
the incidental characters, are wonderfully
well drawn. They convince, do Mahony
and Mary and the boy Cuffy. The view j
of Australia is alien—as untrue of parts of !
Australia as it is true of others. Australia i
is an extremely difficult country tb get into i
a book—much more difficult, for instance,
than is England. To speak of Australia as
a colony, and thus to imply a complete
thing, and to say that the foliage of the
trees in this complete thing is ragged, is. to
paint a false picture. Gum foliage is
ragged, but there are enormous areas—
areas bigger than several Englands, for
example—where the foliage is extremely
dense. It can be argued against this that
the writer has chosen a small corner of
Australia &s setting for her book. She has;
but her people see that corner as if it were
Australia, and the book leaves the impres-
sion that the writer agrees with them.
These things and perhaps others not-
withstanding. “Ultima Thule” is a great
literary achievement and part of one even
greater—a trilogy that we must go outside
Australia to equal. This critic doubts
whether any circulating library in Australia
can give its. readers that trilogy. He also
doubts whether any Australian bookseller
has sold 50 (fifty) copies of either of
“Ultima Thule’s” predecessors.
Paul Wenz
When a man lias been publishing books
for 25 years, each book adding t;o his repu-
tation, it seems rather absurd to announce
him and catalogue his works. And yet, by
this and by that, how many Australians have
actually got hold of Paul Wenz and read
him? To me he was only a name, his books
invisible, until six years ago. Then George
Gordon McCrac said, ‘‘Do you keep up
your French?” which seemed to me, like
most of his remarks, very charming. [t
sounded as if he thought I had just left
school the year before, and indeed when
one is 90, as he was, a person on the inside
of 70 may well seem young. Then he
showed me Paul Wenz’s book of short
stories, “Contes Australiens,” and even—
what was perhaps unwise—lent me his
signed author’s copy. Then by hunting in
Sydney I got another Paul Wenz, this
time with no yellow cover, but with a
colored drawing, unmistakably by Souter,
of men round a camp-fire, fitting into the
book’s title,, “A L’Autre Bout du Monde.”
This Other End of the World is, of course,
Australia, with rare excursions to the South
Seas; and Paul Wenz’s books, written for
Paris, provide us with a sort of telescope
through which we get one European view
of ourselves. The first of his story-books
appeared some time before 1908; the latest,
as far as I know, was a novel, “L’Homme
du Soleil Couchant,” or “The Sundowner,”
published first in the Revue de Paris and
then, in book form, in 1923.
Paul Wenz is a French-Australian. He
passes from his birthplace, Rheims, to a
sheep station in the heart of New South
Wales. In his Australian books there is no
trace of Rheims except that his French is
sound. His eyes are all the time on Aus-
tralia, an Australia which he sees in per-
spective and reduces to a. few simple lines.
His French readers will probably decide that
Australia is what Arthur Adams, as a Maori-
lander, once called “this haggard continent.”
Wenz’s landscapes are from the most hag-
gard interior; his persons are the most
cynical, if the most childlike, of bushmen.
usually bearing some simple name like Jim
or Jack, and without any past or future.
His bush settlements are those of Lawson’s
more arid stories. The bushmen whom Tom
Collins in “Such Is Life” saw from within,
hearing them talk and think, Wenz draws
as silhouettes with bizarre, decorative effect.
His men have taciturnity as a part of their
picturesque characters, and Wenz does not
follow them on their rare orgies of camp-
fire yarning.
Wenz shows a bare Australian landscape,
made even harsher by the works of man,
the houses roofed with “undulated” iron and
the hillsides cleared of timber to make
room for each township. Yet it looks an
interesting place, and the spare short stories,
such as “Jim and Jack,” have significance of
form like the naturally conventional lines
of our leaves and flowers. Wenz gives as
his considered opinion that
no fairy could live on the burning plains tior
haunt the miserly shade of the trees and bushes.
To a European, fed fat in his youth on
fairies and gnomes, jsuch a tabula rasa of
a continent might come with the charm of
relief. (“Do I believe in fairies?” cried E.
M. Forster lately. “Not on any account!”)
When it comes to complete novels, Paul
Wenz is apt to be “conventional” in the
narrow sense. The story of “The Sun-
downer” is threaded on the adventures of a
lovesick young Englishman who accom-
panies a fair and wealthy Australian society
girl to her native land, only to find she is
engaged to another. With this the English-
man goes, first, to drink, then, penniless,
to the road, where he finds mates as never
before. At last when an agricultural town-
ship rises out of a goldrush., the settlers
(Continued on page 5.)


*Truth in Advertising.” When Anthony Horderns’ say a thing you know it is true.
When you Travel —take Luggage of
worthy quality
Anthony Horderns'
offer all Travelling Needs at “ Famous Low Prices.
m
m
m
Men’s Hand Kit Bags, made from
strong, genuine Cowhide. Pitted with
top spring lock and ring-end clips.
Quality XX.
Sizes, 12 14 16 18 20 in.
Each, 13/6 15/6 17/6 19/11 227-
Quality AX, top spring locks, ring-end
clips, piped seams.
Sizes, 12 14 16 18 20 in.
Eaqh, 16/- 18/6 21/- 24/- 27/6
Quality BX, side lock, nickel or brass
fittings.
Sizes, 12 14 16 18 20 in.
Each, 18/- 21/- 24/6 28/6 31/6
F
Strapped Kit Bags, made from genuine
Cowhide. With top locks and capped
corners.
Sizes
Each
22
36/-
24
39/6
20
. 32/6
Quality AX.
Sizes . . 20 22 24
Each . . 40/- 44/- 48/6
Quality BX, with plain corners.
Sizes . . 20 22 24
Each . . 42/6 46/6 52/-
26 in.
43/6
26 in.
54/6
26 in.
56/-
V/
a
A
%
Wool Rugs from 14/11
All-Wool Australian Travelling Rugs,
made with fringed ends. In many
serviceable colors and neat designs.
Suitable for motoring or travelling. Also
may be used as an extra bed covering.
Neatly finished. We are constantly
receiving new designs and colorings, and
the values are truly remarkable.
The “Epsom,” size 50 x 70 inches. Each, 14/11
The “Palace,” size 60 x 72 inches. Each, 21/-
The “Royal,” size 60 x 80 inches. Each, 25/-
The “Bowral,” size 60 x 80 inches. Each, 30/-
The “Como,” size 60 x 80 inches. Each, 35/-
Merino Rugs from 39 6
Pure Merino Wool Reversible Travelling
Rugs, in attractive designs. Many have
plain backs.
The “Renown,” size 60 x 80 inches. Each, 39/6
The “Henly,” size 60 x 72 inches. Each, 42/-
The “Albury,” size 60 x 80 inches. Each, 52/6
The “Birmingham,” size 60 x 80 inches.
Each f 60 /-
The “Oxford,” size 60 x 84 inches. Each, 65/-
The “Moora,” size 60 x 84 inches. Each, 70/-
The “Acme,” size 60 x 84 inches. Each, 75/-
The “Bonwick,” size 60 x 80 inches. Each, 90/-
The "Orsova,” size 60 x 84 inches. Each, 105/-
(Rugs—Ground Floor; Carriage Paid.)
m
r
■
Leather Attache Cases, made of care-
fully selected Cowhide. Ideal for
carrying books, parcels, papers, etc.
Quality XA.
Prices, 15/11, 18/6, 21/6, 23 9, 26/6
Quality XX.
Prices, 18/6, 21/-, 24 6, 27/6, 30/-
Quality AX.
Prices, 21/-, 25/-, 27/6, 30/-, 35/-
mmm
Solid Leather Suit Cases, made from
smooth surface, genuine Cowhide.
Eight capped corners. Drop-back lids.
Covered steel frame. Inside straps
and reliable locks.
Quality XA, lined cloth.
Sizes, 20 22 24 26 28 in.
Each, 37/6 42/- 45/- 48/- 52/6
Quality XX, lined cloth.
Sizes, 20 22 24 26 28 in.
Each, 42/- 45/6 50/- 55/- 59/6
(Travel Goods —Ground Floor. Carnage
Paid on Rugs only.)
Buy on out* D.P.S.
Secure your needs on our
“Deposit-Purchase System a t
cash price. Select the goods you
require, leave a small deposit and
pay the balance in convenient
instalments. The goods are
delivered when final payment has
been made. No interest is charged.
Tents for the Holidays at “Famous Low Prices”
atißtll
1
TP
d 3
; Vi«U T. /"/A 1,, 'll lAfe..
V I1 V 1 >'■ **
Every motorist needs an Auto-tent—and every motorist will appreciate the excellent
designs and low prices of the tents offered by Anthony Horderns . This tent, as
illustrated at left, is very roomy and enables one to walk around in comfort. There
is a calico division which provides two distinct rooms, and the front can be used as
a verandah during fine weather (see inset). Size, 15 x 15 feet, less seams, 6ft.
Duck walls, Bft. centre telescopic poles, with eleven poles 6ft. high for sides. Also
24 large and 15 small tent pegs. The roof is of Waterproof Khaki Birkmyre.
Complete with ropes attached, also tent and pole bag. Price ........ £l2/15/-
Japara One-Man Sporting Tent, 49/6.
This is an ideal tent for the outdoor sportsman, out-back horseman and station life.
Almost as light as silk and as waterproof as heavy Duck. Makes a very small
parcel. Easily and quickly erected by riding rope fastened to tree or fence. Size,
5 ft. 7in., 12-inch wall. Height, 6ft. Weight, approximately 41b. Price .. 49/6
For two men, size 6ft. x Bft., wall 2ft. 6in. Price 59/6
Anthony Horderns 1
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O .


m
w
r.
to
C 9
£
4
<U>
U
mtir.
r
V.
HSdN
m
pr
M
LlI
fc
05
r=i
y t -
" lt - , L i
H ill##'
Convincing’ Thousands that Luxury is
not Necessarily High Priced
SINCE the introduction of the new
Nash “400”, thousands have discov-
ered that they would rather own this
motor car than others more expensive.
They find in it all the best features of
the costliest cars — centralized chassis
lubrication, hydraulic shock absorbers,
and the like.
They find it the easiest steering motor
car they ever have handled.
They like its trim, modern, low-swung
lines—and particularly its Twin-Ignition
performance.
Luxury and luxurious performance are not
necessarily high priced—Nash has achieved
them in the new and finer Nash “400.”
Tourers. Sedans.
Standard Six from £375 £4so*
Special Six from £4BO £565*
Advanced Six from £63o* £62o*
*lmported body.
Distributors for New South Wales:
WILLSFORD, LTD.,
132-134 Phillip Street,
SYDNEY.
'Phones? BW2291 (5 lines).
Distributors jor Victoria and Tasmmia
RICKARDS BROS. PTY., LTD.,
567-573 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE. Cl.
’Phone: F 3 114.
Distributors for Queensland:
PEELS, LTD.,
407-431 Stanley Street,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
’Phone: J 1561.
Distributors for South Australia:
AUTOCARS, LTD.,
58-72 Flinders Street,
ADELAIDE.
'Phone: Central 5500.
Distributors for West Australia:
ERIC MADDREN MOTORS, LTD.,
996 Hay Street,
PERTH.
’Phones: B5610, B 7634.


Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
IN CO-OPERATION WITH
WAGONS-LITS CO.
The only Firm with permanent
offices all over the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
GF
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
ESCORTED TOURS TO EUROPE.
ALL CLASSES. Leaving March and April.
We are the pioneers of Escorted Travel, and,
having our own offices throughout Europe,
are the only Tourist Firm properly equipped
to handle such business.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street,
ADELAIDE:
49 Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
SYDNEY: •
BRISBANE: Martin Place.
Hibernian Building, PERTH:
Adelaide Street. 2 2 Forrest pi ace .
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
send for a school teacher, who is ?
The girl, of course, who had lost her wealth
and become despised by Another. The
story’s circle is complete. But Paul Wenz
is surer in his brief notes. There is his
“Diary of a Newchum,” the only book of
his that I have seen in English. Issued in
Melbourne by the Book Lovers’ Library in
1908. the book lets the newchum fan
Englishman) rather lightly down. Most of
us would like to see Paul Wenz handle a
newchum who was French, but perhaps he
would say that a Frenchman in Australia
is as scarce as a snake in Maoriland. It is
fortunate, though, that at least our French-
man has been a good Australian, too.
How does he manage with our Australian
names for Australian things? Occasionally
he takes a word into the midst of his
French; le swagman, la station, la creek,
le store. The names of our trees, which
we mis-spell and confuse badly enough in
English, come more oddly still in French.
Bull-oak, for instance, is translated liter-
ally:
Along the river where the chenes-taureaux
whispered a sad song to the slightest breeze.
How unlike the bull’s note, remarks the
French reader! Apart from his difficulties
with separate words, though, Paul Wenz
has been able to use the essential rhythms
of Australian life.
There remains the light irony of Paul Wenz,
pervasive, sometimes explicit. Take the
story of the old whaler, long a squatter,
who lies delirious and dying at the very
break of a great drought. Hearing the
roar of the rain, he imagines himself a
whaler again and cries out the orders; on
the words “Let her go!” he dies. Then
follows the quiet comment:
The next day, owing to the rain that had pene-
trated the ground, Bob had no trouble in digging,
near the creek, a hole where be could lay his master;
three days later, the young shoots of grass began
to cover the slight mound.
“Owing to the rain” the story ended sym-
metrically.
Paul Wenz has not much taste for your
wider and wilder philosophies; his geometry
is safely Euclidean; what can be stated
symmetrically, that he states, setting up his
diagrams in the very clear air of Out West.
NETTIE PALMER.
“My Ancestors”
Ex-ICaiser William, entering on his
eleventh year of exile, is reported to have
secretly published a book entitled “My
Ancestors” as a present to his second wife on
his 70th birthday. Though it is secret,
which is a curious point about a printed
volume, reviews have been allowed to leak
out, more or less surreptitiously. The work
doesn’t deal with what the ancestors think
of the 20th of their line, assuming that the
dead still hang around and take notice, but
with what he thinks of the previous 19.
He says, among other things, that they were
“plain administrators of God always charac-
terised by piety,” that they had a divine
right which William still preserves care-
fully wrapped up in cotton wool, and that
their motto was “Fearless and Faithful.” It
seems a curious scrap of literature to dig up.
There is abundance of space even now
to speculate as to how the Great Disagree-
ment might have finished if the ex-Kaiser
had been a Diehard, a Bitter-ender or a
Last Ditch King. His generals had com-
mitted a multitude of blunders, but the
Allies had done the same, and a more cap-
able and inspiring War Lord might have
prevented some of the Hun blunders and
remedied some more. The finish was a
strangely unsatisfactory business. The Hun
army was still a very great army, and so
far as is known it had lost less than the
Allies. The navy had lost far less than the
Allied navies. The war was still young
compared with many others, such as the
shindy from which Louis XIV. extricated
himself in his old age, with serious loss
certainly, but still with his clothes and his
crown and a comfortable palace to die in.
And towards the last the position of the
Allies was hampered with many difficulties
as well as adorned with many triumphs, and
the victorious drive which was pushing the
Hun back towards his own undamaged
country was really in a deuce of a hole.
The position was that the Hun had still
the chance to fight for a considerable time
if he had the energy to provide himself
with apparatus. And if he was inclined to
go absolutely mad at the behest of a
beloved leader (one of the Charles XH.
type) he might have not only asked, but
demanded, better terms than he got. Fail-
ing mild conditions he could have remarked
that he had still so many Allied towns and
cities to burn in his retreat that previous
doings wouldn’t be a circumstance to the
bonfire, and plenty of railways and roads
and bridges to destroy, and that his fleet
had yet a chance, and that if he came to
final and complete collapse the Allies could
then do their damnedest, that being the
limit.
Foch politely asked Fritz to hand over his
teeth, otherwise his navy and an immensity
of munitions, in return for being allowed
to get away quietly to his own country,
restraining as much as possible his desire
to loot and destroy as he went, and added
that a disarmed Fritz would learn more par-
ticulars about what he had to pay in good
time. In the case of a nation whose head
was a beloved and admired War Lord,
even if he wasn’t quite a military genius,
he would hardly have put up such a bluff.
Brother Hun had still many valuable host-
ages to bargain with, but he had not only
lost his punch; he had lost the desire to
punch, and his background monarch was
greatly responsible. William never had to
be carried off the battlefield, a wounded
but undaunted figure on a shutter, or any
appealing performances like that.
JAMES EDMOND.
Prophets without Honor
Dale Collins’s wail (R.P. 6/2/'29) re-
garding rough handling by critics in his own
country is supported by the experience of
Hector Bolitho, the young Maorilander who
has made good in London. On the day
Dale Collins’s complaint appeared in The
Bulletin, one of the heads of a Sydney
publishing house handed me a pamphlet
Bolitho had issued, setting side by side his
English and Maoriland notices. His
home town, Auckland, treats him just as
Melbourne treated Collins. Bolitho says
that the “New Zealand critics, excepting
those in Otago, have been so ruthless in
their comments that Justice and Humor are
served” by the comparisons in his pamph-
let. Incidentally, my publishing house
Iriend, who has just come back from
London, assures me that Jonathan Cape,
Chatto and Windus and J. M. Dent had
all been after Bolitho’s second novel,
“Judith Silver,” published by Alfred Knopf.
Bolitho, with whom I worked on a Sydney
daily, and whom Dick Harris once aptly
described as “that rare combination, a
journalist with a business head,” has been
busy with books of all kinds. One is a
volume in the Outward Bound Library
entit led “The New Zealanders,” an account
of life in the Dominion to-day. “It
is a matter for deep regret,” said the
Maoriland Herald, “that the editor of the
Outward Bound Library should have made
such an unfortunate choice of author.” The
Literary Supplement of the London Times
said: “‘The New Zealanders’ might well be
handed by the editor to his future contribu-
tors as a pattern for their work.” Of
another Bolitho book the Auckland Star
said. “Not a, great deal of sense of charac-
ter.’ Of the same book London Punch
remarked: “A thoughtful and sincere study
of youthful character.”
So the critics go on, the people of
Bolitho’s native land flaying him as an up-
start with more brazen hide than ability;
such papers as Punch, the Times, the
Morning Post and the Daily News
describing him as the possessor of a soul
of rare sensitiveness, and as a writer who
commands attention and respect.
Someone must be right, and as one who
knew Bolitho well, who has read his first
novel, “Solemn Boy,” and who has heard the
gnashing of Dale Collins’s teeth. I con-
clude that seven-eighths of this damaging
criticism is narrow-minded jealousy and
covetousness.
SYSN RSDT.
A Satchel of Books
Eastern Africa. To-day (East Africa, Lon-
don). A semi-official publication intended to
“answer tlie vast majority of questions about
European life; and settlement in the British
East and Central African Dependencies.”
Excellently compiled, well illustrated.
Judy Bovenden, by H. C. Bailey
(Methuen), is an “historical” tale of the
Regency, with Bucks, Bloods, Brummell and
the Regent himself paraded in all their sinful
splendor. The manner in which the villains
are polished off in the last chapter is as
expeditions as it is unique.
The Victorian Illusion , by E. H. Dance
(Heinemann). Apart from a polysyllabic
contempt for the politicians it produced, the
author has a thorough admiration for the
age.
It will not do to stamp, as either indifferent to
art or lacking in artistic self-consciousness, an age
which produced Pre-Raphaelitism and kept it within
bounds, which revived Gothic and, in spite of many
enormities, gave it a meaning of its own, which scat-
tered broadcast upon the history of literature a
greater number of lasting names than any previous
period; and which, beginning with the melodious
molasses 0 f Mendelssohn as its criterion of musical
taste, kept conscientiously abreast of Wagner and
ended by treating him as old-fashioned. That sort
of age cannot be regarded as narrow-minded; yet
narrowness is certainly the chief count in our half-
formulated indictment against the Victorians.
An excellent piece of analytical history.
Queen Elizabeth and Borne Foreigners
(Bodley Head). Edited by Victor von Klark-
will and translated by Professor T. N. Nash,
this series of letters from the archives of the
Ilapsburg family form a revealing contri-
bution to the vast mass of Elizabeth litera-
ture. Freely illustrated and edited with
German thoroughness, the volume is an
important historical document and a smash-
ing retort to the scores of muck-rakers who
have busied themselves with one great
woman’s bodily reputation.
American Ambassadors to France, by
Beckles Willson (Murray). A book for the
history specialist, and a very good book, too.
The author finds a new angle from which
to view French history from 1777 (Benjamin
Franklin) to 1927, with the 1870 war with
Germany and the 1914 war as rather high
lights. Between times there were several
serious international crises between America
and France, including one war (the naval
disturbance of 1799), the averting of another
war by the narrowest of margins in 1812
and the severance of diplomatic relations
in 1835.
China and Britain , by R. O. Hall (Edin-
burgh House Press: Robertson and Mullens)
A Christian survey, from which the
too-common missionary attitude of veiled
contempt for the heathen is conspic-
uously absent. The writer’s contention
is that the Briton’s will to achieve and
the Chinaman’s ideal of family harmony
are two incompatibles responsible for most
of the present row. A frank endeavor on
both sides lo find out what the other fellow
is and thinks is the first essential to peace
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
E. Som: Not much fun in it... . L.L.:
Thanks, two copies received... .D.E.P.: Fair, but
the visibility isn’t good in patches.... Henry D.: One
of those exasperating things that won’t either go into
the basket or escape it with enthusiasm H.P.G.:
Repellent... .Bulsid: Another packet of misery....
J. : Aspirations to be back in the bush even
less convincing than usual... .L.L.D.; You’re not
dismal, any way.... 0.C.: “Evening” is better than
the other one; that’s a 11... .P.M.H.; Idea deserves
better treatment... .J.0’0.; Thin as a living
skeleton... .E.J.T.0.: Important omission from those
you’d biff if you were omnipotent—poetasters....
K. : Not much Avorse than most occasional verse
.... Dingo: “Cut out the blood and woe, and make
us laugh.” Why not show ’em how?... .P. 0.8.;
Nothing wrong with it, except that it’s banal and
insincere... .1.M.E.: Song of pirate skeletons stand-
ing uii under the sea and drinking rum reads like
an account of a Quakers’ prayer meeting... .Wan-
duna: Slender as a sardine... .S.W.: Says nothing.
....J. Este: Make a triolet of it. ...F.N.: “My
Sweetheart” is dreadful... .F.M.: “In my most
lucent moments I aspire to be an essayist.” Send
something when you arc not “lucent”... .Little
Dorrit: Passed 0n....8.P.: A melodramatic trifle.
. ...P.M.H.: Descriptive 0n1y.... M.A.M.: Leaves
too much to speculation... .J.K.P.: Can’t give
“Pater” space... .J.W.: Generous tribute, but not
suitable for publication... .C.M.: You have some dis-
tance to go yet... .Cedilia: Worth a daily-paper par.
. ...E.V.S.; Moves us to return it hurriedly....
E.M.S.: “Choice” rejected.... A.C.W.; String of
commonplace generalities... .J.H.G.: Imitation Hor-
ric k.... A.P.: Much ado about very little. ... F.E.M.;
Rejected without regrets... .K.D.S.: It wasn’t
lack of interest in the topic that beat
it. The thing itself lacked interest.... A.H.M.8.:
“Black Eye Blue” again outed... .N.K.: Y'our
lute needs hamstringing... .R.A.E.: Your “Vision”
has its limits... .XIX : Much too long and
well-nigh illegible.... G.8.C.: Medley of reminis-
cences no good to us; tell one yarn at a time....
T.G.W.: N 0... .R.V.M.: Large bundle rejected with
emphasis... .J.J.1.: “February” read; but please do
not go into mourning—we still live... .N.E.P.: “In
the event of their being worthless, stamps are
enclosed.” Stamps used... .1.H.: Don’t like ’em....
T.E.O’D.: Fair, but only fair.... Bubbles: If any-
thing, one is a bit worse than the other... .S.H.C.:
Rhyme about chap who tried vainly for 20 years
to get into print lias the genuine flavor of auto-
biography ... .J.D.: “Prisoners” sentenced to death.
.... K.McG.: It’s simply amazing how many people
want to roam so ardently that writing wildly about
it satisfies them.... A.C.W.: “The Fool in the
Forest” is a very ordinary chap... .C.A.P.: “Beauty,”
alas! is ugly... .Scribbler: Makes us wish we hadn’t
published the inspiration. .. .S.H.: “The lips that
sing are inarticulate.” Yours is not the only evidence
in support.... R-.C.: “Rata” disliked in both suits.
. ...8.G.: Suggest you send verse in praise of Italian
to some Labor-paper... .K.K.: In Memoriam verse
rejected, as usual.... A.A.T.: Too fragmentary
H.J.M.; Could be condensed into a par... .A.E.W.:
Can’t swallow the duck story.... R. J.M.: Interesting
in parts, but too long and a bit obscure.... A. J.M.:
Nothing out of the box—except the diamonds....
L. : Shows imagination, but sloppily written....
N.8.R.: With so little knowledge of correct spelling,
grammar and composition, the outlook is poor. Rea 1
hard for a year, and burn what you write; then try
again... .J.M.G.: Can't get interested in ’Oraee’s
story... .T. 0.: Those eats and babies don't allure... .
N. 8.: An interesting mental ease rather than a story.
. ...8.D.A.: Whiting not on our menu... .G.A.:
Euchred.... L.F.H.: No incident... .Pippa: Good,
but scarcely suitable here... .R.M.8.: Too impres-
sionistic. .. .R.S.T.: A nice rice-pudding sort of
story. . .W.N.R.: Persevere. The style is good but the
construction is artificial and unconvincing. It needs
the story element... .0.M.H.: Vamp too gory....
Benj. 1).; Serial articles made up mostly of discursive
and irrelevant chatter are not wanted on the Land
Page... .E.L.K.: Possibly there were one or two
historical errors in it, but we can’t devote a column
to your correction of them.... J.S.J.: When you send
verses—probably somebody’s else’s —under a fictitious
name, better decide beforehand on the spelling. Tlius,
if you are J. S. Johnson to one set of verse it
rather spoils it to be J. S. Johnston io another....
E.M.: Ethel M. Dell has written about 25 novels. She
married Lt.-Col. G. T. Savage in 1922. Her address
is care A. P. Watt and Son, Hastings House, 10
Norfplk-street, London, W.C.2... .0.L.: The Herald
and the Standard (Buenos Ayres, Argentine) ;
Brazilian Review (Rio de Janeiro) ; South Pacific
Mail (Valparaiso, Chile) ; Montevideo Times (Mon-
tevideo, Uruguay) ... .A. l’.P.: “The Law of the Aus-
tralian Constitution,” by D. Kerr; “The Constitution
of the Commonwealth,” by W. 11. Moore; “The
Annotated Constitution of the Commonwealth,” by
Quick and Garran; “The Judicial Power of the
Commonwealth,” by Quick and Groom ; “The Legis-
lative Powers of the Commonwealth and the States,”
by John Quick ; “Australian Constitutional Develop-
ment,” by E. Sweetman; and “The Making of the
Australian Commonwealth,” by B. R. Wise....
A.H.T.: “Narranghi Boori” was James Sylvester
Ryan. He published only one hook of verse, “Splin-
ters on the Wall” (1908), which is now out of
print.,. .M.J.: Not in our line... .Cooma: Someone
got in ahead of you... .D.A.G.0.: Typewritten copy
with five or six hundred words crowded into seven
inches of space is apt lo go basket wards... . F. 8.:
Thanks J.P.8.; If you read the paragraph again
you will find it was never suggested that Lawrence
was beneath contempt as a soldier; the statement
was made about the Arab.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
V. 8.: You badly need lessons... .P.F.: That
chap seems to have blundered into every bath-
room in Australia... .C.E.C.: Lifeless gag, and the
drawing is all scratches.... E.P.: Drunk who paid
tram fare for the crayfish is a disreputable old friend.
. ...J.S.: You fail both as a versifier and an artist.
. ...G.A.L.: Jokes non-starters; sketch stiff and
crude.... Toilc: Weak.... J.A.G.: Even the silk
stocking dangling from the inebriate’s pocket wasn’t
alluring... .8.P.: Better not show ’em to the loco.-
driver.... J. 8.: A long way off N.S.: You get the
ink on the paper, and that is about all. .. .E.D.C.:
The week’s wildest piece of ink-splashing... .H.L.M.;
Won't have it.


ƑG
a
a.
f
mem
a.
m
mm
A
m
M
m
:
ms
» ■
■
'-''Mmm
m.
_, <f.


The Bulletin
Vol. 50.—N0. 2561.
March 13, 1929.
SPOILING THE TALKIE.
“Those who have a true understanding of the United States know that we have no desire for territorial expansion or for economic domination of other people.”-Presi-
dent Hoover, in his inaugural address.
“Quit rattlin’ them dahlers! You’re spoilin’ the talkie.”


The Bulletin
The f ational Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
lIEAD OFFICE:
214 George Street, Sydney.
Victohia : 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 245 Adelaide Street, llrisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London: 56 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4 s - 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 ids.;
C months, 15s. (id.; S months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 4 n z. to 10nz., l\d. ;
each additional 40z., Id. All Sea Iloute: 160 z., Ihd.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4 0Z - or part thereof,
Id. Flsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
“Ultima Thule” .. .. .. 2
PAUL WENZ 2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..6
A PAGE DRAWING BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
The Little Sniper .. 8
BREEDERS OF ANARCHY 8
“FREE OF STATE INCOME-TAX” .. ..9
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 9
POLITICS (with caricatures) .. .. ..10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. .. 11, 12
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. .. .. 14
POVERTY POINT 15
A SCORFIELD CARTOON 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..17
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS .. .. 18, 20
Huddart, Parker, Ltd. .. .. 18
QUEENSLAND MEAT EXPORT CO 18
HACKSHALLS 18
MOTOR CREDITS 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 23, 25
Free Service Department .. 20
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 31
PRIZES FOR FARMERS 28
SMOKE-011 32
“A Rogue in Amber” .. ..34, 51, 53
PEN AND PICTURE 37
NEW MOVIES AND TALKIES . . .. 37
SPORTING (Illustrated) 39, 41, 42
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 42
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 44
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 46
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 49
VERSE 53
HOW “BRACKEN” MIGHT HAVE ENDED .. 55
Two Complete Stories
“THE MIND OF AH FOO,” by Harold Mercer 57
“THE BLACKSMITH’S WIFE,” by Myra. Morris 58
ffie'fyulleiz/ft
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 13, 1929.
THE LITTLE SNIPER.
The Bruce-Page Ministry, despite the
majority it secured at last election, has
many close calls these days, and W. M.
Hughes, ex-Laborite and now apparently
ex-Nationalist, is mostly sniping in the
offing with his little guerilla band. He
speaks against the Ministry on all manner
of pretences, mostly poor ones, and either
votes against it or makes a strategic dis-
appearance before the division. What goal
he has marked out for himself if the Cabinet
is pushed off its official pedestal, also how
and in what company he expects to get
there, are mysteries, but he sits round and
looks sour and murky with great punctu-
ality.
Recently, however, W. M. Hughes pro-
fessed to come out into the open and ex-
plain his grievances against Page, if not
against Bruce. It wasn’t much of an effort.
In the first place the doctor was an ardent
advocate of subdivision and the establish-
ment of new States, yet after six years m
office he has created no new States. As
no State can be subdivided save with the
consent of its own Legislature, Page, as the
No. 2 man in a Cabinet which didn’t put
New States conspicuously on its pro-
gramme, hadn’t much of a show. Still the
Bruce-Page Cabinet made two Territories
where there was one before, though little
good resulted, and it tried to induce West-
ralia to surrender some of its waste space,
and failed. This is the first time that
Billy Hughes has shown any sign of
taking an interest in decentralisation. A
more definite grievance was that the Bruce-
Page hadn’t reduced the tariff, which is the
old Freetrade or half-and-half William
come to life again. It had instead charged
£18,000,000 more in customs than he him-
self did in 1923. The actual increase shown
by the figures for 1928 was a little over
£7,000,000, but William was always rather
sketchy in his figures.
In a particularly angry mood the member
for North Sydney denounced it as political
immorality that the Nationalist-Country
party coalition didn’t dissolve after having
served its purpose in one Parliament—and
possibly give him a chance to pick up
something among the ruins. It had no
da sited right, it seems, to live longer. But
so long as a coalition of two anti-Labor
parties has a working majority of its own,
as this one had in its second Parliament, and
net. one scratched together by taking in
too many mixed elements, no one can say
why it shouldn’t continue instead of start-
ing an internal cat-fight to order. Hughes
himself was a painfully continuous man.
With exceeding bitterness the little gentle-
man from Wales complained that Page
appears to think that good government will
end with himself, but that is such a com-
mon impression that it isn’t worth a men-
tion. Hughes’s own conviction is that good
government did end with himself, and that
it will begin again with himself and no
one else. The Bruce-Page combine has
done as many foolish deeds as the average,
but its violent and unreliable “follower
shows no definite objection to them, so it is
inferred that he would have done no better.
Hughes’s position is certainly an aggra-
vating one—almost as aggravating as he is
himself. He went out because his followers
didn’t want him any longer. The army
voted that it was a very good army—all
but the general. It wasn’t excessively par-
ticular about the general so long as his
name wasn’t Hughes. Over this insult the
ex-leader has alternately sulked and boiled
for six years. Some men would have re-
tired on being reduced to the ranks, but
William stayed on as a full and disgusted
private. And though six members with six
different grievances, combined with the
permanent Opposition, may put the Minis-
try out it is difficult to imagine any kind
of combination which will put William in.
BREEDERS OF ANARCHY.
President Hoover, in his inaugural address
at Washington, said “Crime is increasing,
and confidence in rigid and speedy justice is
decreasing.” He promised that during his
term the laws would be administered with
rigor, and discussed the duty of good citi-
zens in words which are as applicable to
Australians as to Americans: —
“The worst evil of disregard for some law
is that it destroys respect for all law. For
our citizens to patronise the violation of a
particular law on the ground that they are
opposed to it is destructive of the very basis
of all that protection of life, home and pro-
perty which they rightly claim under other
laws. If citizens do not like any law, their
duty as honest men and women is to dis-
courage its violation; their right is openly
to work for its repeal.”
An increase in crime is noticeable in every
European country, even in Great Britain,
where public confidence in “rigid and speedy
justice” is high. The tendency takes par-
ticular forms in particular countries, of
course—in the U.S.A. the “best people”
violate the Eighteenth Amendment; in
France crimes of passion are condoned,
and so on. One manifestation, however, is
common to every country which is not ruled
by a dictator—a tendency to flout the laws
governing trade and industry. That is to
say, the forces which regulate the whole life-
rhythm of the State. And the blameworthy
parties, as a rule, are trade-union leaders.
We must look further back than the Rus-
sian revolution for the source of trade-
union arrogance, though the Reds are natu-
rally using it for their own purposes. As far
as Britain is concerned, it dates from the
Trade Disputes Act, 1906, which had the
effect of putting unionism in a remarkable
position. This Act said that nothing done
in pursuance of a trade dispute—whether a
civil wrong or a breach of contract —was
actionable.' Long before the war unionists
of many nationalities had got it into their
heads that, as unionists, they were in some
way above the law. This dangerous super-
stition died down during the years of strife,
but it came to life again with the return
of normal conditions, and it is flourishing
now in all the so-called democratic coun-
tries, particularly in Australia.
It is in the political sphere that disregard
for the laws is most flagrant. Almost every
big strike of recent years has been a poli-
tical strike, in the sense that its object
has been to procure the repeal of a law'
or to defy a Government. These strikes
are engaged in by citizens who would be
scandalised if it was suggested that they
should commit (say) arson, or any other
crime involving damage to property and
danger to life, for the purposes of profit.
They are sanctified by the fact that
the spokesmen of the organisation have de-
clared them to be in the interests of
unionism, and that presumption gives
absolution both for the illegality involved
in defying the courts and for any mis-
demeanors and crimes arising from it. It
is distasteful for unionists on strike to watch
free laborers at work, and so the latter
are insulted, stoned and assaulted; in
extreme cases their homes are bombed.
Unionists on strike are annoyed at the spec-
tacle of transport proceeding as usual, and
so in London they set fire to oil-barges and
in Sydney they try to sink timber-punts. All
with as little consciousness of evil-doing as
is felt by a savage who drives a spear into
the back of an opposition tribesman.
This represents a denial of that rule of
law which is at the root of all social free-
dom. and it is a denial of the principles of
political freedom which the British have
been fighting for since medieval times and
have only recently achieved. The unionist
class is a good class. So were the early
Roman law-giving class, and the English
baron class in the twelfth century, and the
squire class in the eighteenth century, and
the squatter class which governed Australia
during most of the nineteenth century. But
no free country will submit to class govern-
ment these days. A free country says, in
effect, to its citizens: “There are the laws,
made by all of you. If they are distasteful
you can change them, but while they remain
you must obey them—not merely those
which it suits you to obey, but all of them.”
If it fails to secure obedience to the laws
it ceases to be free, and if the tolerated
lawlessness of a section leads to civil war,
as happened in the Great Republic, it may
cease to be a country.
N.S.W.'S KEOO[?] LOAN FEAR.
Supposing a bad uo.aiiment commences
a large and elaborate crime just before it
loses power, does it follow that the good,
or at least better, one which succeeds, if it
does succeed, is bound to finish the offence
in its entirety as a matter of honor? In
conversation with a begging deputation
(practically all deputations are of the beg-
ging variety) at Bathurst the other day, the
N. S. Wales Premier raised that question in
an apparently unconscious way, and to all
intents and purposes answered it in the
affirmative, also in an unconscious-seeming
way. He mentioned that the State’s loan
expenditure for the current year, which
closes in a little more than three months,
is progressing at the rate of £15,000,000 per
annum, which will make it the most riotous
squander-year in the State’s record, the next,
worst being 1920-21, when Storey-Dooley
scattered £14,701,028, and the third worst
1927-28, when the Bavin Ministry ruled for
8j months out of 12, and spent £14,407,619.,
Speaking dispassionately, as if he were
lamenting some other person’s sin, T. R.
Bavin said that this sort of thing couldn’t
continue, and that “loan expenditure, except
perhaps for reproductive and developmental
works, would have to be reduced.” This is
about as unsatisfactory as a platitudinous
shuffle could be, and it is a hoary platitude
to boot. Bad as the position is, the great
bulk of the loan “assets” of the Ma State
are reproductive, only they don’t reproduce
nearly enough to pay interest. The worst-
looking loan railway which stays open, or
partially so, in Bavin’s dominion furnished
a gross revenue of £5 during 1924-25-26-27,
or 255. per annum. Of the other loan in-
vestments a very large proportion are under-
stood to develop something, if it .is only
the brickmaking industry which supplied
the materials, or local land values, or the
view from the top front window. Some
much more definite plan of reform is wanted
from a Ministry which is putting up the
record loan expenditure, and indulging in
the luxury of repentance at the same time.
An explanation offered in palliation of the
record loan expenditure was that it is largely
due to “commitments entered into before
the present Ministry came into office.” This
was hardly correct, as the Bavin Cabinet
put five new and very unpromising rail-
ways on its programme; but the tale may
pass, along with many other tales. The
duty of a really reforming Ministry would
be to declare that work on. all . tlm most,
hopeless “commitments” which it inherits
is stopped indefinitely, and that if the
interest on the money already spent is
dead loss, at least the country will be
spared thS further loss on working expenses.
Then it would swear off loan “commit-
ments” of its own except in the extremely
rare cases in which experts, none of whom
are politicians, will guarantee a paying pro-
position. Under present conditions, which
are admittedly very bad conditions, N.S.W.
possesses 28 lines, 11 of them less than
20 miles in length, which it would pay to
close, though the interest bills would
remain; in fact, it would pay so handsomely
that some harassed Treasurer who has the
arithmetical capacity to realise the situ-
ation is almost bound to look that way
sooner or later. The making of these works
furnished a little employment for a little
time to people, some of whom have been
dead for 30 or 40 years, and the price, of
the little bit of benefit is still being paid
in the endless interest bill. It isn’t worth
while to add to the bankrupt and rapacious
herd even if Lang or some other ex-place-
man did leave “commitments.” This is
especially so as a few more years of record
spending will probably drive Bavin and
Stevens to emulate the doings of Empson
and Dudley, the two gentlemen who tax-
collected for Henry VII. and were beheaded
amid general applause by Henry VIII. Not
that the execution of a Treasurer and an
Assistant-Treasurer is actually anticipated.
No State would look well if spotted over
for an indefinite number of years with
abandoned loan works, unfinished or other-
wise. But in addition to a vast saving of
money the abandonment would be a sign,
and it would seem the only possible one.
of a genuine resolve to put in the plug.
There is no hope in vague promises to begin
to do better when enough money has been
borrowed to work off “commitments.” There
is no end to them excent a violent one.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
License to Pester.
There are indications that the community
is getting very tired of the imposture known
as “peaceful picketing.”
The law allows picketing for the purpose
of “peacefully obtaining or communicating
information, or peacefully persuading any
person to work or abstain from working.”
That is, in the case of a legal strike. But,
even where the picketers are legally on
strike, they are forbidden by the British
Conspiracy and Protection of Property Act,
as well as by our Conciliation and Arbitra-
tion Act. to intimidate those at work, to
use insulting language to them, to follow
them about, to watch or beset their homes,
or, generally, to interfere with their comfort
or dignity—much less to commit sabotage
on their property or murderous assaults on
their persons.
Labor politicians and union leaders have
surrendered to the imported doctrine that
the end justifies the means where strikes
are concerned, with the result that
they have lost the capacity to apply the
ordinary standards of social ethics to
these upheavals. Suppose a unionist decided
to change his grocer. And suppose the
grocer organised his friends and persuaded
them to make the lives of the ex-customer
and his family a hell till the account was
reopened. The neighbors would soon recog-
nise this to be a dangerous interference
with liberty, and the police would take
action. “Peaceful” picketing, as now prac-
tised in Australia, is in the same category.
It is a violation of the victims’ fundamental
civil rights and an intolerable nuisance to
the public.
Unionists, even when they are partici-
pating in an illegal strike, have the rights
of free speech and public meeting to put
their views, however misguided, before the
community. There is no reason at all why
they should also be allowed to personally
bulldoze those who are abiding by the law
into becoming law-breakers. It is likely
that any Government which took firm action
in this matter would win a surprising amount
of public support, and it is certain that if
none does there will be disastrous develop-
ments before long. It should be remem-
bered that the men at work have’ quite as
many potentialities for violence, once they
are aroused, as those who aim at black-
mailing them into idleness.
O
Millions for Filmliouses, But
No visitor who sees the magnificence of
Melbourne’s picture palaces could imagine
what the city’s University looks like. The
nearest analogy is to a devastated area in
France.
The vast acreage is dotted over with pro-
jects which have been finely conceived,
ambitiously embarked on and then allowed
to peter out into miserable heaps of ruins.
Even the superb Wilson Hall, claimed to be
the finest specimen of Gothic in Australia,
finishes up in the rear in ignoble brick.
Trinity College chapel, conceived in stone,
was carried out in the same material, and
a melancholy spectacle it makes. Instead
of being designed to a general plan, most
of the other buildings are miserable short-
cuts to accommodation.
And the outside of the University is an
index to its internal troubles. It is
chronically hard up. While a million pounds
is easily subscribed for the showing of more
American films it is hard for the academy
to rake up a thousand for Australian re-
search. Behind Professor Berry’s recent
resignation from the council and the faculty
of medicine is irritation at the financial
incubus. ....
At the moment the council is seriously
perturbed because it cannot find £750 to
enable Dr. King to go on with the investi-
gations into cancer which helped Dr.
Cherry to make a discovery hailed abroad
as of the first rank.
The Abortionist’s Deadly Work.
A sharp rise in maternal mortality is
recorded by the N.S.W. Director-General of
Public Health, whose annual reports are
so valuable that it is a pity they are not
printed until they arc a year old. In 1926,
276 N.S.W. women died in childbirth; m
1927 the number was 352. There were 67
deaths from puerperal septicaemia in 1926;
in 1927 there were 103. The mortality rate
in 1927 was 5.6, the highest since 1920, when
it was equalled—in fact, there have been
only two higher figures (5.8 in 1917 and
6.1 in 1913) since the end of 1908.
Li calculating the mortality rate, illegal-
operation cases are excluded. Forty-six
victims of illegal operations were buried in
1927—the largest total on record. Twenty-
eight of them were married women, and
there were also 28 wedded wives among
the 40 butchered in 1926, a fact which Dr.
Morris, Director of Maternal and Baby
Welfare, regards as “appalling.” And it is
estimated that “one-third or more” of the
deaths ascribed to puerperal septicaemia
“arise directly from abortion.”
On the subject of abortion startling facts
are given. The Medical Superintendent of
Sydney’s Coast Hospital, which accommo-
dates patients of both sexes, has been col-
lecting comparative statistics since 1919. In
that year 54 abortion cases were treated
in the institution out of a total of 5941.
In 1926 there were 620 abortion cases out
of a total of 10,754, the percentage having
risen from 0.91 p.c. to 5.76 p.c.and there
were 581 (5.3 p.c.) in 1927. “I think it may
be taken for granted,” the Medical Superin-
tendent says, “that in the great majority of
these cases, if not in all, the abortion was
artificially produced,” and he concludes that
“the practice of abortion must be increas-
ing enormously in the metropolis, as the
patients who seek admission to hospital are
probably only a small portion of those on
whom the criminal operation is performed.
Dr. Morris adds, for his part, that women
don’t ask for hospital treatment till com-
plications have arisen. And “there are cases
who survive but pay a postponed penalty
in morbidity and ill-health, or perhaps suffer
a fatal complication at the next pregnancy.
Ante-natal clinics, better training of medi-
cal students and midwifery nurses, and
stricter control and supervision of private


IT MUST BE A CERTAINTY.
“Labor is fully justified in refusing to work under Arbitration Court awards which are in favor of the master class.” —Cry of union secretaries and Labor politicians.
UNION SECRETARY: “Either I use my double-headed penny or the game’s off.”
hospitals are looked to by Dr. Morris to
reduce the willing mothers’ risk. But
divorce, as he points out, is a social prob-
lem; and who is going to solve it?
The Cost of the Cheap Asiatic.
The problem of reconciling the interests
of settlers alien to the soil with those of
an established native population has of late
occupied the attention of both Australia
and Maoriland. The East African Terri-
tories are faced with much the same diffi-
culty, but in an aggravated form. The
Territories comprise (1) Kenya, a Crown
colony and protectorate which includes
Zanzibar; (2) Uganda, a protectorate; and
(3) Tanganyika, a former German possession
now held under mandate by Britain. In
addition to the small European population
and the numerous indigenous native tribes,
all three shelter a very large Asiatic popu-
lation, mostly Indian, Kenya alone con-
taining 30,000 of these, while there are also
considerable numbers of Arabs.
Since the war there has been increasing
difficulty in maintaining a just balance be-
tween the various sections. The highlands
of East Africa are proving an ideal area for
the settlement of British farmers and
planters, while they have proved equally
attractive to the Indian trader.
The chief trouble the Administration has
met since the war is. the assertion by the
Indians of their right to more adequate
recognition in the conduct of affairs, and,
in Kenya especially, feeling between the
white settlers and the -Indian section has
several times reached danger point. For
some time a British Commission has been
investigating conditions, and has now recom-
mended that the three Territories be amal-
gamated into an East African Union with
a common policy, directed at first by a
High Commissioner, and later by all the
machinery of more or less modified self-
government presided over by a Governor-
General.
In some ways the proposal would not
entail serious difficulties—all three work
under a common Customs Union at present, "
for instance—but other obstructions present
themselves, of which the Tanganyika man-
date held by the Imperial authorities is one.
Far more important, however, is the ques-
tion of the franchise. The claim of the Indian
population is the crux of the matter. In
Kenya, where the Legislative Council is
partly elective, they have succeeded in gain-
ing the right to elect five members to repre-
sent their interests. On the other councils
only officially nominated members sit, and,
in all, the nominees of the Administration
are always in a complete majority. It is
impossible to imagine a franchise which will
give the Indian, who greatly outnumbers
the other settlers in the Territories, com-
plete control of the proposed Union. On the
other hand, since his rights have to an ex-
tent been acknowledged, as in Kenya, it will
be impossible to keep him out of the
polling booths altogether, as was done when
the South African Union was formed.
The whole situation in East Africa, and
South Africa also for that matter, is yet
another horrible warning to those misguided
folk who never cease to agitate for the
admission of cheap Asiatic labor to Australia.
“Free of State Income-Tax.”
When the Federal Government wanders
into the market for a loan, and it is seldom
absent for long, seeking money mostly for
the States but occasionally a little for itself
also, it is specifically mentioned that the
dividends are free of State income-tax.
This is essential, for State income-taxes
are erratic and variable. More State income-
tax is always a shadow hanging over
the future. The N.S.W. Government laid
its plans not long ago to gather in an addi-
tional £700,000 or so under this head. If it
really spends £15,000,000 of loan funds and
makes the present a record financial year, as
Premier Bavin recently mentioned, it may
easily find need for another £500,000 or so of
taxation about 12 months hence. So if the
exemption of loan interest wasn’t thrown in
as a sort of indefinite bonus, unpleasant
things might happen because of the uncer-
tainty.
But a result is that a large and fast-
increasing proportion of the national income
doesn’t contribute towards the deficit. In
N.S.W. last year the net income realised by
manufacturers who are taxable showed a
slight decline, but the income collected
by bondholders rose handsomely. When
a new loan is subscribed freely, as is
the case with Treasurer Page’s present
£7,000,000 venture, it is generally hailed as
evidence that money is plentiful, the
position pretty sound, and public confi-
dence in full bloom. The evidence is
dubious. The Commonwealth contains a
certain quantity of paper money which
never leaves because it is of no value out-
side, and some of this is always wandering
around ready for investment, and behind
this is a gold reserve which doesn’t wander
around. The less desire there is to venture
into taxable manufacturing enterprises and
the like the more tendency there may be to
invest in non-taxable and high interest-
bearing Government stocks.
Experience has created an impression that
there is very little that a Slangwhang
Ministry and a Labor Council or an A.C.T.U.
may not do or attempt to the detriment
of investments of the Private Enter-
prise sort, but none of them has yet ven-
tured to do anything really hostile to the
investor in State or Federal securities. The
readiness of State Cabinets, especially the
worst sort, to take charge of the people’s
funds, and remove them out of the tax-
paying category, and then invest them badly
in tax-free undertakings, amounts to a
craze.
The Case for the S. Aus. Motorist.
From W. H. Christophers, secretary of the
Automobile Association of S. Aus:—
The writer of “Roads or Railways” (B.
20/2/’29) seems as wide of the mark as the
Auditor-General of South Australia, whose
report is quoted. The contention that road
construction expenditure runs to £16,000 a
mile, with £IOOO a mile for maintenance, is
contrary to fact. The heaviest type of bitu-
minous concrete road generally used here
costs South Australia slightly over ■ £6OOO a
mile. Two roads, which were largely experi-
mental, have cost £l6B and £221 per mile
per annum to maintain, including shoulders;
this was due to the partial failure of the
first year’s work. Two others have cost £167
and £155 p.m. p.a., including shoulders; the
first of these roads leads through the hills,
with heavy cost for drainage, and the other is
the road to Port Adelaide. The remaining bitu-
minous roads, aggregating 544 miles, have
averaged under £35 p.m. p.a. in maintenance,
and they have been down for some years.
The Auditor-General’s theory that motor-
ists are being subsidised by the general tax-
payer to the tune of £580,000 p.a. is based
on a population-and-expenditure comparison
for 1910 and 1928. By using another basis it
would not be difficult to show that motorists
are subsidising the general taxpayer by a large
sum annually. The Auditor-General states
that £2,334,000 was spent on S.A. roads
last financial year, with the inference that
it was all for the benefit of the motorist.
As a matter of fact, certified by the
Under-Treasurer, this sum includes expendi-
ture on roads in the City of Adelaide and
within the boundaries of towns and town-
ships, approximately £761,000. It also in-
cludes £102,000, representing interest on old
loans effected before the advent of the motor
into general transport, and £43,000 for con-
struction of bridges. Surely it cannot be
claimed that this expenditure was principally
for the benefit of the motorist?
Last year £934,000 was speht on main
roads, inclusive of interest and sinking fund.
Towards this motorists contributed £BIB,OOO.
The revenue to be received from the recent
Special Licenses Wet will more than make up
this deficiency, and the taxpayer will there-
fore be contributing nothing directly towards
main roads. S. Aus. lias the highest general
and motor taxation in Australia.
The railways, in a statement issued last
year, claimed no more than that motor com-
petition was responsible for £IOO,OOO of
their annual loss. No credit has been given
for the business brought to the railways by
the motor, or for its economic value to the
community, which is enormous.
The Bulletin man did not question the
economic value of motor vehicles to the
community, nor did he say that roads are
costing up to £IO,OOO per mile in South Aus-
tralia. That statement applied to Australia
in general; and evidently it was an under-
statement. Since Mr. Christophers wrote,
it has been officially admitted that the new
road from Hornsby (N.S.W.) to Newcastle,
101 miles, will cost £12,560 per mile. More-
over, it is reckoned that £129,000 has been
spent in reconstructing eight miles of Perth’s
Canning-road.
♦
The Ark at Ararat.
An echo from the days of Queen Elizabeth
comes from Ararat (Vic.). In Elizabeth’s
reign it was enacted that any inhabitant
of the realm who failed “to endeavor him-
self” to resort to his parish church on a
Sunday should be subject to a fine of 12
pence for each omission of the pious duty.
A youth aged 17 years pleaded guilty at
Ararat to charges of breaking and enter-
ing, and having in his possession goods
reasonably suspected to have been stolen.
He was sentenced to imprisonment for three
months and 14 days. But the sentences
were suspended on the offender entering
into a bond to be of good behavior for 12
months “and to attend church service once
a fortnight.”
In the early days of the Children’s Court
in Sydney it was the almost invariable
custom of Stephen Murphy, the presiding
magistrate, when releasing juvenile offenders
on probation, to require that they should be
made to attend Sunday-school. If this prac-
tice and that of the Ararat Bench were to
become universal, the complaint of un-
filled pews would lose some of its force.
Whether offenders released on bond “to
be of good behavior and attend church
service once a fortnight” would not elect
to “take it out” and be done with it is
another question. But as a serious contri-
bution to the problem of the empty church
it may be worth consideration.
The Gospel According to George.
Dear Bulletin, —The complete remedy for
lack of employment has been found again.
It appeared in the S. M. Herald (4/3/’29)
in the shape of a letter signed “A. G. Huie,
secretary Henry George League.” The great
Hen. Geo. gospel is that the State should
“nationalise” or confiscate privately-owned
land (not the improvements), which would
be a confiscation of £302,228,000 in N.S.W.
alone, except for any slump which might
arise through breach of faith. The
rent levied on the stolen property is to
pay the charges of government. At 5 per
cent, the yield in N.S.W. would be
£15,000,000 per annum. At present the
N.S.W. people pay about £38,000,000 in
State, Federal and Local Government taxes
and find that insufficient, so the Single Tax
would land them in a Single Hole.
Mr. Huie says:—•
“In years when imports were low unem-
ployment increased, and when imports were
large unemployment decreased. Large impor-
tation of goods means increased employment.
We have to work to produce other forms of
wealth to pay for them. The more imports
the more exports.”
By way of commentary, Australia’s imports
during the three years June, 1925, to June,
1928, were valued at £464,571,321, or
£154,857,107 per annum. These bloated
purchases didn’t “mean increased em-
ployment,” for the country didn’t “work
to produce other forms of wealth to pay
for them.” To a very great extent it
produced its IOU; the addition to the
Federal and State debts owing abroad was
for the period £103,600,000. These figures
appear on page 1019 of the latest “Federal
Year Book.” And the amount of ascertained
and reported unemployment went up from
88 per 1000 in 1925 to 114 per 1000 at last
advices (September, 1928).
The Australian Freetrader sticks, year
after year and decade after decade, to the
story that imports are naturally and auto-
matically paid for by exports. He denies
or blandly ignores the existence of some-
thing approaching £500,000,000 of overseas
debt. None of this is a war liability. It
all represents imports which weren’t paid
for by exports.
I met Henry George once, also his son.
The old man seemed silent and depressed,
but the son, an eager youth, inquired about
my political views. Finding them unsatis-
factory he proceeded to expound the fiscal
doctrine of his Inspired Pa. When he told
me that Protection was unnecessary because
imports were naturally paid for by exports,
I mentioned the Australian foreign debt as
a case to the contrary. He gave me the
impression that he had never regarded ex-
ternal debts except as war burdens, but he
brushed the matter aside and said it was
“merely an unclosed account.” It wasn’t
much of a debt then, but now, when it is
possible for a year’s imports to reach
£148,000,000, and for £54,300,000 of this to be
added to the external debt, the time for
a drastic embargo on non-essential im-
ports seems at hand. Nothing in particular
can be done by raising taxes and building
up sinking funds here, or by confiscating
and realising on anything here, for the
proceeds would only be paper money, and
that “unclosed account,” as sprightly
George, junior, described it many years ago,
calls for gold or surplus goods which will
sell for gold.—Yours, etc., Solomon Mala-
prop.


SPECIAL ■ RESSRVI
Highland Whisky
m/fmilWrnt
RED, WHITE and BLUE
WHISKY
Gaelic Special Reserve
DEARER BUT BETTER
ORME, KEIGWIN &t CO., LTD.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN AGENTS: JAMES HENTY & CO., 499 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD., 444 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
O UIQ
RESE
sir
POLITICAL
POINTS
Queensland is to have its State election
W. H. Barnes.
on the second Satur-
day in May. On Fed-
eral figures the Labor
party hasn’t the ghost
of a chance, but the
electoral boundaries
favor it to such an
extent that it
expects to win,
as usual, more especi-
ally as many Queens-
landers seem to have
got into the habit of
voting against Labor
at Federal elections
and for it at State
elections. Again,
the Outs have been
out for so many
years that they are
short of men • with
Ministerial experience;
in fact, the only one
they have is W. H.
(“Bishop”) Barnes,
who served in . three
Governments and was
Acting-Premier while
Denham was abroad.
And Barnes has
turned 70.
Premier McPherson, of Victoria, has an-
nounced that he will “take the law” on the
Federal Government if it attempts to pay its
promised subsidy of Is. per ton on New-
castle coal sent to the other States or ex-
ported abroad. In other words. Victoria
won’t allow any part of its Federal-tax con-
tributions to be used to put N.S.W. coal
cheaply on the Vic. market so that it may
knock spots off the improving Vic. coal
industry. Both the Constitution and com-
mon sense appear blankly against Bruce’s
proposition.
The Newcastle coal-owners having agreed
to submit their books to inspection, it almost
looked for a moment that something good
might happen. It was proposed that the
Institute of Accountants should submit a list
of highly-qualified auditors, and that the
Miners’ Federation should choose a man from
the list. The inevitable hitch arose when
the Federation insisted on the sole right of
selecting the auditor, who would doubtless
be a member of the party, and commissioning
him to go into a lot of matters in addition
to the one under discussion. The only result
was more recrimination.
After various attempts to buy a coal show
at exorbitant prices the old dismantled
Sydney corporation took to digging for fuel
in a spot which looked much the same as any
other spot. But after going down 2600 ft.
and only striking a little burnt coal the
Commissioners who now run the business de-
cided that it was very like boring holes in
the wind, and gave it up. This is a poor
time to acquire any coalmine, especially one
with nothing but trouble at the bottom of it.
Senate electors are required to vote for all
the candidates in their order of preference.
For the three vacan-
cies in Victoria last
November there were
six candidates: For-
syth, Lawson and
Elliott for the Minis-
try ; Barnes, Blakey
and Findley for the
Opposition. Forsyth
died just before the
poll was taken, and
Ministerialists had to
vote for one of the
Labor men. The offi-
cial choice fell on
Barnes, who topped
the poll; Lawson and
Elliott were also
elected, with majori-
ties over Blakey of
7212 and 10,098 re-
spectively. But Blakey
and Findley claim that
11,289 votes obviously
meant for their side
were improperly re-
jected because of. the
omission of the figure
5. the ballot-papers
Starke, J.
being marked Barnes 1, Blakey 2 Findley 3,
Elliott 4, Lawson 6. Lawson and Elliott
contend that the rejection was right, and
that if it is declared wrong thousands of
votes just as obviously intended for them will
have to be admitted —23,662 votes were ruled
out altogether. The parties are awaiting the
decision of Starke, J., on these knotty points.
Chief-Sec. Argyle has discovered that Mel-
bourne talkie theatres are not fulfilling their
obligations under the Victorian quota law.
The reason given is that America is the
only country which makes film for the system
used. It sounds a thin excuse, since all the
apparatus installed to date can be . adapted
immediately for either movietone, vitaphone
or silent celluloid, but it has satisfied Argyle
to the extent that he is granting a tem-
porary exemption. The exemption should
not be allowed to last long. Talkie-making
apparatus exists in Australia, and Gus Bluett,
Lance Fairfax and Fritz Hart’s symphony
orchestra would make just as good sound
pictures as the imported.
In spite of bellowing Laborites, dis-
appointed place-seekers and stunting news-
papers of the State Frights persuasion, the
Bruce-Page Government got its Transport
Workers and Financial Agreement measures
through the House of Reps. On the Financial
Agreement Bill it was helped with the vote
and friendly counsel of W. A. Watt, and
it can do with a lot more of such counsel
from a man so well qualified to give it. A
better speech than Watt’s has not been de-
livered this session.
A proposal, official or otherwise, has been
put before the British Parliament that when
a person on the dole emigrates to Australia
(or some other Dominion) his dole shall be
sent out to him for two years to help him
along. There has been a roar of indignation,
in which the Bruce-Pages, as well as the
Scullidores, have joined, but considering that
Australia has fixed up an agreement by
which it is to accept and “satisfactorily
settle” an immigrant in consideration of a
mere loan of £75 (13,333 for each £1,000,000
of “migration and development” loan), there
is nothing to roar about. The gift, at all
events, wouldn’t be invested in dubious public
works. Moreover, Australia would have the
same right to reject the undesirable who
was on the dole as the one who was off it.
Unpleasant remarks have been made by
a medico about the home for half-castes at
Alice Springs. Built of iron, it was origin-
ally intended to be a none-too-commodious
domicile for 12, but is now occupied by
about 70, aged from babyhood to 25 years.
They are of both sexes, and the overflow
sleeps outside in mixed morals and circum-
stances. This place created an outcry some
years ago and reform was promised, but in
the heat and fluster of building Canberra
the matter was overlooked. Alice Springs
is now one of the nine capitals of White
Australia. and begins to be mentioned as
such in English works of reference. Photo-
graphs of “An Australian Metropolis” won’t
look nice.
The moratorium which the late Vic.
Hogan Government devised for the benefit
of distressed Mallee settlers in December,
192 i, has run out, and the McPherson Gov-
ernment has refused a renewal. As 2000 or
more farmers are still in difficulties, miscel-
laneous relief devices are being tried, such
as sustenance allowances, temporary ad-
vances and friendly mediation with credi-
tors. The maps which explain the distribu-
tion of sheep, cattle and wheat show a bald
spot like the top of a worried Treasurer’s
head in the extreme Vic. north-west. Pos-
sibly the passion for settling people to make
their fortunes by wheat-raising has been
overdone in those parts.
The really interesting Royal Commission
which can be imagined in a whole terrace of
Royal Commissions would be one composed
of bankers and actuaries to inquire: (1)
Has any witness a satisfactory plan for doing
without all this overseas borrowing? (2)
Failing that, has anyone reason to believe
that the present cadge can go on and increase
for ever? (3) Are there any signs that the
money-lenders are becoming bored through
excessive importunity, and is boredom a
cumulative disease? (4) Will the members
of the Brupage Government give a sample
performance of the scene when they break the
news that the jag has run its course?
A British Labor member has introduced a
bill providing that the names of subscribers
to political party funds and the amount of
their donations must be published. “Let us
have all the cards on the table,” he said
proudly, “and then everybody will know
exactly how much Red gold the Labor party
receives from Moscow.” The idea might be
tried here as an interesting but hopeless
experiment. It isn’t in the least likely that
the line, “Ivan Ilomocidovitch, Moscow,
£500,” would ever appear on any list. The
money would be subscribed by an agent as
his own donation, and if he was the kind
of agent who was liable to have money of
his own it would be difficult to prove any-
thing, especially if he had been staying at
a hotel when he donated and had since moved
on.
The inevitable is happening, as it has to
do in order to keep up its reputation. The
Federal revenue rose from £64,720,635 in
1922-23. to £78,168,235, the maximum boom
figure, in 1926-27, £9,235,294 being increase
in customs returns. Australia had elephan-
tiasis of the accounts, because it bought
goods with borrowed gold and collected paper
money by taxing them on arrival. In
1927-28 customs dropped by £2,000,000, be-
cause the patient couldn’t swell for ever. But
Page thought he could and had anticipated
a further rise instead of a fall; hence a
deficit of £2,630,000. For 1928-29, Page,
with an unquenchable faith in renewed
elephantiasis, based his estimates on
£3,400,000 increase of revenue. The half-
year’s figures point rather to two or three
millions further fall than to £3,400,000 rise.
John Butters, Chief Commissioner at Can-
berra, is having an un-
comfortable time just
now. He’s at logg.ir-
heads with politmirmn.
pressmen, master-build-
ers, land speculators,
civil servants, third
Commissioner Watson,
and others. The strain
is seemingly telling on
the man, and Vhen, in
argument with Dr.
Watson, he punctuated
his remarks with a
reference to ' “this
damned territory,” the
echoes of the adjective
reverberated all around
’Berra, and it was said
that he had abdication
in his mind.
The United' States
Congress has its
moments of energy.
By a short, sharp
amendment to an un-
important-looking bill
it enacted that every
alien who gets a sen-
tence amounting to
one year for drink-sell-
John Butters.
ing, and any alien who gets any kind of sen-
tence for a shooting crime, shall be deported
and sent back to the country which he left
for its own good. Now it is only necessary
to seize and convict the alien. _ There are
about Ij- millions of him in Chicago alone.
The Vic. Cockies will meet in conference
in Melbourne on March 20, mainly to decide
whether or not they will offer peace terms
to the Country Progs. The Cockies have
ten members in the Leg. Assembly and five
in the Leg. Council; the Progs, have four
Assemblymen and one Councillor. Desire for
unity is by no means general among the
Cockies. The Progs., for their part, want
to be asked to come back and dine on the
fatted calf without being classified as pro-
digals.
Two of the Big Four, Hirst and Duckham,
have come out into the open with the state-
ment that what Australia needs is markets
for its produce. What it really needs is
more produce for its markets, and fewer
markets here for other people’s produce.
There are some good points in the N.S.W.
Bavinsliaw Government’s Public Hospitals
Bill brought in by
Dr. Arthur, not-
ably the proposals
for establishing
pathological labora-
tories in country dis-
tricts (at present
nearly all specimens
and swabs have to be
sent to Sydney) and
the scientific equip-
ment of base hospitals
to save country suf-
ferers the trouble-
some, expensive and
perhaps dangerous pil-
grimage citywards. But
the financial provisions
moved even National-
ists to expressions of
wrath. There is (of
course) to be a Hos-
pit a 1 s Commission,
with a chairman at
£l5OO p.a., which is
to devise ways of ex-
tracting more money
from patiepts; and for
constructional p u r-
poses local boards or
Dr. Arthur.
committees are (equally of course) to
be empowered to raise loans. In short,
the pressing financial problem bus been
dodged, though, judging by S. Aus. and
Westralian experience, a State tax on amuse-
ments would bring in £400,000 or £500,000
a year and would involve no hardship to
anyone.
The foundering of the Annie M. Miller
two miles off Sydney Heads has been de-
clared by a Marine Court to have been due
to overloading. The craft took in a cargo
of coal at Bulli, and went to sea with a
list to port. She carried 37 tons more than
she could safely carry, which meant that on
an even keel her Plimsoll mark would have
been 3.7 inches under water; and the captain
and five men went down with her. The
.Court absolved the owners. The N. S. Wales
Navigation Act makes the owners responsible
for putting the Plimsoll mark in the right
place, and indicates that a ship with her
mark submerged shall be “deemed to be an
unsafe ship and such submersion shall
be a reasonable and probable cause for the
detention of the ship.” But, as in the Com-
monwealth Navigation Act, it is left to the
crew to protest. It doesn’t seem to be any
body else’s business —except that of the
master, of course —to see that a ship doesn’t
leave port in an unseawortliy condition.
The Marquess of Salisbury, Privy Seal in
the Baldwin Cabinet, has been uttering words
of woe. He believes that “the great days of
Britain’s Parliamentary institutions are pass-
ing, or have passed,” and that “both Houses
have lost the confidence of the country” ; and
lie views the future with dismay. Still the
old Legislature has had many ups and downs,
and its future has been viewed with dismay
before. In the early days of George 111.,
when the King played at_ absolutism and
lost the American colonies, it was very much
down. Then the British Fleet was rotten
because the Earl of Sandwich spent the naval
vote at cards, and Britain lost a valuable
admiral through the bottom falling out. of
his ship in calm water. Both Houses im-
proved greatly later in the same reign—the
Napoleonic period. y
“Clifford Snook’’: During the debate on
the N.S.W. Crimes Bill, under which power
is given to flog the razor gang, Labor-mem-
ber McKell protested that a man who was
flogged invariably became an enemy of
society. The question arises whether St.
Paul, who was flogged eight times, was a
worse individual than the original Saul, the
brisk young persecutor. Nero v/asn’t flogged,
but, hearing that the Roman Senate had in-
tentions that way, he committed suicide; so
one good act led to another. Whether
the flogging of the Rev. Titus Oates spoiled
an otherwise beautiful character it is diffi-
cult to say, but it was said to have spoiled
a grotesquely-shaped back.
“Jobber”: It would do strifemongers on
both sides good to have a look at the
Katoomba (N.S.W.) colliery. After lying
neglected for many years this show was re-
surrected by two young Diggers, MacDonald
and Davidson. The chief customer is the
Municipal Council; it uses the local coal
in the generation of electricity which sup-
plies the mountain towns from Glenbrook to
Mt. Victoria. There is no trouble with th?
toilers. A strike or a lockout has never been
thought of. Perhaps both sets of agitators
in Sydney have not yet heard of the colliery
being again in working order. If they have,
it is possible that they have had the tip to
keep away.
DREAM STATES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Where are those new States that were for ever
on his lips when he was out of office? You may ran-
sack his policy speech and find not the faintest
whisper of them.” — IV. M, Hughes on. Treasurer Page.
Once, ’tis a positive fact, you were full of
them,
States that you featured and tipped to
be born.
How you enthused on the wheat and the
wool of them,
Milk and the honey and oil and the corn !
Platforms were planked and elections were
t won with them,
Policies framed and Agrarian stock
Boosted like blazes. But what have you
done with them?
Where in the deuce have they vanished to,
Doc.?
States to be carved from our overgrown,
bloated ones,
Ready to get in their stride at a shake,
Children, but, so to speak, trousered and
coated ones,
Grown—like the folk of Deucalion’s make.
Once to electors you’d proudly exhibit ’em,
States to give Centralisation a shock,
Laud them in glittering phrases ad libitum —
What in the devil’s become of them, Doc.?
Once, from your hat, they would leap into
view for us,
Rabbits that came at a conjurer’s nod;
Once there was little they weren’t going to
do for us
When you should tap on the rock with
your rod.
New States with capitals—regular bunch of
them—
How they’d accelerate Progress’s clock!
llow would Australia advance in the punch
of them !
What in the world have you done with
them, Doc.?
Was it a will-o’-the-wisp, then, the gleam
of them?
Tell us, for sober reality’s sake,
Did we but slumber to dwell in and dream
of them
Hugging illusions and now must we
wake?
Since you were Treasurer, say, have you
lumbered them,
Given the States-in-the-making the knock?
Jettisoned, shelved and sidetracked and back-
numbered them ?
Billy is asking their whereabouts, Doc.
N.S.W .
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Harold Ilardupp”: A grey but still
youngish man stared at my friend when we
entered the bar, and then came over. “I
thought I recognised you! You’re Jim,
aren’t you?” A gleam of recollection came
into Jim’s eyes as he admitted his identity,
but it was almost grudgingly that he invited
the older man to join us. “Thought you
were still in Melbourne,” he remarked over
the beers. “Over on a bit of business. It is
19 years since I saw you last,” returned the
other. “Must be all that,” assented Jim.
The old man shouted, and left —frozen out,
I thought. “My father,” volunteered Jim
as we strolled out. And we returned to our
discussion of the fifth Test.
* * * *
“Chicot”: Of all tbe excuses offered for
failure to vote at last November’s Federal
elections the briefest came from a Queens-
land bush-dweller. His plea was compressed
into the five words: “I couldn’t swim the
Cooper.”
* * * *
“Morkrum”: Before a Board of Inquiry in
1851 one James Raymond stated that the
site of Sydney G.P.O. was purchased by
Governor Macquarie for a hogshead of
brandy and £4O. More recently the Lands De-
partment attempted to get at the .facts of the
deal. The picturesque story wasn't disproved,
but it was shown that it could have applied
only to the George-street end, as the rest of
the present site was acquired by the Crown
long after the Macquarie regime. Sydney
has had a post office thereabout (facing
George-street) for over a century. The
present building was opened in 1874. The
first telephone switch-board was installed in
1882; a brass tablet on the fifth floor marks
the spot. There were 28 subscribers. To-day
there are 100,000 telephones within 20 miles
of that tablet.
* Hi * *
“Murkah” : It isn’t always mammoth waves
that knock ships endways. In pre-war days
tbe Moana was spinning along this side of
THAT LOOK OF RELIEF.
CORA: “Evelyn’s father quite spoiled the wedding ceremony.”
MOIRA: “How ever did he do that?"
CORA: “Oh, he looked far too happy as he was giving her away.”
Raratonga. Lunch was on when, without
any notice whatever, the steamer heeled over.
I have never seen a deck so nearly perpen-
dicular. But she came back, rolled stupidly
once or twice, and then went along normally.
There was a three-feet deep stack of broken
glassware against the port side of the dining-
saloon ; even on Mafeking night in Melbourne
I never heard such a smash. The diners,
especially those on the lower side of the
spill, emerged with badly ruined raiment.
A year or so later the purser informed me
that the solitary roll had cost the shipping
co. £B2O. The best explanation of the phe-
nomenon was that the vessel had been hit
below the belt, as it were, by a submarine
volcano. All agreed that she had been
lifted from beneath, while the men on the
bridge swore that no wave approached her.
“Gregor”: Recent paragraphs regarding
Sydney’s vanished Tank Stream impel me
to ask exactly where it started. There are
plenty of people who will indicate its course
from‘the G.P.O. to the Quay. I have had
pointed out to me quite a half a dozen differ-
ent spots where it was alleged to take its
rise. They were widely apart, though
all on the southern side of Surry Hills.
One of our oldest inhabitants has assured
me that the original spring from which the
Creek began was a small one, but that there
were others along its course which fed it as
it ran.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: A motorist who falls asleep
while driving is not guilty of negligence,
according to a Melbourne magistrate. In
the case in question, the driver, a taximan,
hit a lamppost on a clear night in an un-
obstructed thoroughfare. His excuso was
that he had been doing a lot of night driving
and must have dozed at the wheel. The
beak held that the defendant (a total
abstainer) was no more responsible than a
man who has a fit while in the same position;
but advised him to give up nocturnal motor-
ing in the future.
* * * *
“Bullwhangcr”: The three-masted bar-
quentine Alexa, which caught fire the other
(lay and burned to the water’s edge in
Butaritari (Gilbert Islands), was the last
sailing vessel without auxiliary power to
trade regularly out of Sydney. Making three
or four voyages a year to and from the Gil-
berts, she always berthed at one of the Cif-
cular Quay wharves, and was one of the
most photographed craft afloat. Originally
a barque, built in Holland early in the cen-
tury, she was for some years in the M.L.
trade. Then a Chinese firm in George-street
purchased her, and, altering her rig, put her
into the Gilbert Island trade. Trim and
well kept, she was often mistaken for a yacht,
and it was a frequent saying that “you could
(-at your tucker off her deck.”
* * * *
“Brilliant Shallows” : There was no six-
foot negro in Hugh Mosman’s, party when
it discovered Charters Towers (B. 6/2/‘29) ;
the only colored person with the party was
Jupiter, a small boy. The man “Brilliant
Deeps” has in mind is George Hall, a native
of Barbados, to whom some humorist attri-
buted the claim that he had been the first
white man to cross the Burdekin. But this
was long after the Towers was opened. It
was from the Broughton—or Seventy Mile-
that the Towers was first sighted by Mosman,
Clark and Fraser. Mosman’s party made
their find at the end of 1871, and reported it
in Jan., 1872, to Warden Charters at Ravens-
wood. Hall came to the Towers in 1876. I
was there in 1874, and knew all the old
hands. Hall and I were mates for many years.
* * # *
“Hayband”: More drunks’ luck! Re-
cently at Rooty Hill (N.S.W.) an accident
to a motor-lorry crossing tbe line led to a
fast Western train being bold up outside
the station. Peering into the darkness aho.ad,
as he waited for the signal, the driver
noticed a dark object a few yards ahead
of the locomotive. It was a snoring drunk,
his head pillowed on one rail and liis
stockinged feet on the other; before turning
in he had removed his boots 1 And for years
past that train had rattled through Rooty
at 45 m.p.h.
* * # *
“Mulgo” : “The rummiest customer I ever
picked up was a little fat bloke,” said the
old cabby reflectively. “He bustled up as
if he was in a great hurry an’ hands out a
fiver. Didn’t wait for any change; pops
inside an’ says, ‘Drive me to the morgue.’
He was can-yin’ a folded paper, an’ was
short-winded an’ worried-lookin’. ‘Goin’ to
identify some poor devil that’s been run
over, an’ perhaps belongs to him.’ I thought,
an’ whipped up the old horse. But when I
pulled up at the morgue an’ looked in at my
fare, dash me if he hadn’t snuffed it. Looked
at first as if the excitement an’ exertion ’ad
caused heart failure. But the doctor said,
‘Pizened himself.’ Anyhow, he was a gentle-
man ; he knew where he ought to go, an’ he
paid well to go there.”
* Hi
“Lex”: Dr. Otto Bohrsmann, of Sydney,
can claim an Australian record—that of
having made the most expensive travelling
acquaintance of recent years. The acquain-
tance was one Matthew Biggar, a card-
sharper avlio took Dr. Bohrsmann down in
the U.S.A. for £lO,OOO. Last year Mr. Big-
gar arrived in Sydney, and the doctor had
him arrested under a writ of ca. sa., and
lodged in Long Bay. Biggar’s reply was
to go bankrupt. The medico, seeing no
prospect of recovering either his £lO,OOO or
the legal expenses to which he had been put,
decided to wash his hands of Biggar, who
presently went to Melbourne. Then the
Sheriff who had writted Biggar stepped for-
ward with a claim for poundage to the tune
of £254 7s. 4d., under an Act of Queen Eliza-
beth’s time. The right to poundage was
abolished in England by an early Victorian
statute, but this statute was never adopted
in N. S. Wales. The Full Court held, accord-
ingly, last week that the Sheriff was entitled
to his money (commission on the sum en-
dorsed on the writ), aud the unfortunate
doctor has to add that and the further costs
to the amount which Biggar’s transi-
tory friendship has cost him. The only
moral, if any, exists in the deadly peril of
HE’D DONE IT.
“That’s a queer old chap over there. He just told me he wouldn’t marry the best
woman in the world.”
“He has no need to. I’m his wife already.”
having anything to do, while abroad, with
fluent, feilvery-haircd strangers who make
noises like philanthropists.
He * * *
“Oran”: Talking of marine stewards and
their gratuities, a well-known Sydney bar-
rister tells a tale of his meagre student
days, when, in company with some fellow-
enthusiasts, he decided to supply a strike
shortage of white-coated attendants, and
signed on for the voyage to Tasmania. At
the last moment an elderly gentleman came
aboard with stacks of baggage, with which
the amateur battled nobly. “You seem a
decent lad,” said the passenger, affably. “If
you look after me well on the voyage you
won’t regret it.” The elderly one proved a
wretched sailor, but the young man stuck
to him gamely. Even when at Hobart he
dumped the last of the dunnage on the
wharf and was rewarded with a shilling, he
smiled pleasantly, and shook the outstretched
hand heartily. “Wait a bit,” said the old
nabob. “You’ll go far in your career, young
man. I gave you that shilling to see how
you’d take it. This is yours, too.” “This”
was a cheque for £lO. The prophecy was
correct, too, but it wasn’t the career the
passenger imagined.
* =l= * *
“Nomen”: A long string of Christian
names is not quite so rare as might be
supposed. I know of one large family every
member of which carries no fewer than six.
The only girl is Ida Clara Ruth Jane Har-
riet Ann. Similar homely labels ran
short in the case of the boys, and the Bible
was levied on to supplement the deficiency.
It taxes some of them to sign in full on
the dotted line.
* * * *
“Il'amer”: The sequel of the Goddard case
in London has all the flavor of an old-
fashioned melodrama. In 1922 the hero
(one Josling) sought to unmask the villain
(Goddard). That urbane scoundrel, how-
ever, threw dust in the eyes of the fatuous
stage-father, John Bull, and the hero, found
guilty of making false charges of corruption,
crashed and was dismissed from the police
force. Like most stage villains, Goddard
took no warning by his narrow escape, but
ultimately his sins found him out and
lodged him behind the bars. Since then the
aged stage-father, John Bull, has been saying
to the vindicated ex-Sergeant Josling: “How
can I ever make amends, my noble boy?”
The noble boy didn’t want reinstatement in
the police force, but all the stains have
been removed from liis character and record,
and John Bull has forced a cheque for £l5OO
into his hands. Doubtless there is the usual
love interest in the drama somewhere, but
the cable hasn’t mentioned it.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: In his yarn “The Resurrec-
tionist” J. 11. M. Abbott brings the notorious
William Hare to life as a Sydney waterman
(B. 27/2/’29). This is at variance with
what is known of Burke and Hare, whose
misdeeds have supplied material for several
books and innumerable newspaper articles.
Hare turned King’s evidence and Burke was
sentenced to death on his testimony. Then
Hare fled to London realising that Edin-
burgh was unsafe for him. He secured work
at a lime-burner’s, but was presently identi-
fied, when his enraged work-mates flung
him into a lime kiln. He escaped sightless
and horribly burned, and disappeared for
some years. Later, as a blind beggar
with long white hair, he was a familiar figure
in London, though his identity was not
generally known until disclosed by the police
after his death. Such is the account in
Adams book on the dreadful paii. Incideu-
tally, Abbott’s, description of Hare hardly
squares with his efligy in Madame Tussaud s
waxworks, where he is depicted as a tar
from i.l-looking man, with a thin mouth, a
long pointed nose and a wide forehead,
Burke on the other hand, as preserved in
the Chamber of Horrors, has a tace of
incredible uleness.
“Topman”: It is quite true that when the
Sheriff has demanded the body of a con-
demned man, the rest of the depressing busi-
ness is his affair (B. 27/2/’29). As one
who has been a sheriff, I can speak with
authority, both on this subject and the fact
that, if he cannot find a deputy, the officer
must do the job himself. In my first case
we were far from professional hangmen and
other modern conveniences of civilisation,
while not one of the small white population
could be induced to take on the duty, rliere
was nothing for it but to coach an unlettered
native policeman, and thc suspense I endured
while waiting to see how my pupil would put
my theories into practice was probably
greater than that undergone by the prospec-
tive subject. However, the intelligent lad
made such a good job of it that I promoted
him to be my personal orderly.
* ' * * *
“M.G.S.”: The most wholesale use of
human bricks and mortar (B. 20/2/’29) must
be attributed to King Tlieebaw of Burmah.
When lie rebuilt Mandalay in 1860 he buried
53 persons alive under various parts of the
city, including four under the throne to
ensure the stability of the dynasty. When,
in 1880, the virtue of the sacrifice having
evaporated, he proposed to repeat the pre-
caution with 5600, the people demurred and
he was obliged to compromise with a nig-
gardly 25.
* * *
“Fosse” : Is the aeroplane destined to_ add
to its other functions that of an X-ray
apparatus for discovering objects through the
earth’s hide? A cable mentions that photo-
graphs taken from about half a mile up have
located a Roman town buried, but not buried
deep, beneath Norfolk fields. As there are
doubtless plenty of Roman villas, not to men-
tion villages, which remain unearthed in
Britain or only come to light occasionally as
the result of accident, this discovery should
open up a profitable field for the bird-man,
as well as the landowner and archamlogist.
And if the existence of buried buildings can
be thus indicated, why not that of mineral
reefs and seams? Now that, after countless
aeons, man has at last mastered the art of
getting well off the earth, there are signs for
him to read that were undecipherable at close
range.
* sjs * *
“Selma”: The old superstition which
asserted it was unlucky to lose or even
remove one’s wedding-ring must have died of
exhaustion long ago. The modern woman
has hers off as often as on, and in cases
of loss the ring is frequently not replaced
at all. Numerous rings are lost in the surf,
wherefore the surfing matron often removes
hers and loses it otherwise. One woman
of my acquaintaince lost her wedding-ring
on her honeymoon and has ever since worn
her grandmother's, her husband being un-
aware of the substitution.
jj;
“Clievroford”: If Ben Boyd's neglected
mansion near Eden (N.S.W.) has a genuine
air of having belonged to a storied past,
as was recently claimed in The Bulletin,
the same cannot be said of Dingley Dell
(S. Aus.) since the Gordon committee threw
its mantle over the place. The pilgrim
is rewarded for having made a detour of
32 miles from the Prince’s Highway, near
Mount Gambier, by being shown into a room
(admission sixpence) which has all the his-
torical appearance of a just-completed savings
bank home. On the nicely kalsomined wall
hang a few prints; other items are a rusty
bit, a horseshoe, a whip and a table at which
poems may have been composed. One is
handed a visitors’ book in which to inscribe
one’s name and any thoughts inspired by
contemplation of the committee’s arrange-
ments. Amongst the thoughts recorded to
date—the book was started in 1926 —are
“Goodo,” “Bonzer,” “Snifter” and “Very
nice.” When I visited the shrine the small
boy in attendance was unable to show me any
other relics and seemed to be in some doubt os
to whether Gordon was a famous movie
star or a leading cricketer. However, the
surrounding landscape and the distant boom-
ing of the ocean have been left untouched by
the committee, and still convey the atmo-
sphere of quiet which no doubt originally
attracted the poet thither.
THE TWO SYLVIAS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Through some bird-haunted coppice,
When all the world was young,
The praise of your wild beauty
By many a man was sung,
With piping and with garlands,
With amber fruits and green,
Until the branches parted where
A fleeting glimpse of tangled hair,
A hint of tawny shoulder bare,
Might happily be seen.
Now in these shadowed gorges
Of grey and yellow stone,
With gifts of sweets and cocktails,
Silk shawl and saxophone,
A man, if he be lucky,
May woo you, dryad, still.
For, though you wear a gown of lace,
Yours is the same provoking grace
To lure yet fly the sought embrace
As on that ancient hill.
N.S.W.
J. O’N.


“Digger’s Batman”: The usual faults
are being found with the Mackennal statuary
on the Sydney Cenotaph. One complaint is
that the soldier should have been done with
full pack up. Nevertheless, the figure is
rightly shown in “battle order,” with merely
a haversack over the shoulder; as he stands
on guard in a front-post position his water-
bottle has been quite legitimately omitted —•
probably left in his dug-out. Only rarely
was the full pack carried into the line. Mac-
kennal’s work certainly exhibits a scarcity
of cartridge pouches; presumably a few
were sacrificed to give better effect to the
uniform. The arguments about the exact num-
ber of buttons that went to an Aussie tunic
recall a horrified officer’s complaint in 1918
that a whole batch of uniforms, recently
distributed, w’ere two buttons short of the
original regulation quota. He seemed ro
regard it as a calamity only comparable to
a reverse at the front.
* * * *
“Meddik” : As an example of an uncalled-
for and all too-common type of libel on the
poor old war, take this from the S. M.
Herald :
Mr. W. M. Marks, M.P., is at present confined to
his bed suffering from the recrudescence of an old
war injury. His trouble has been diagnosed as an
inflammation of the inner ear.
I know all about this complaint, being
afflicted by it myself. It is caused by a
germ penetrating the middle ear, and it
leads gradually to deafness. But it hears no
more relation to a war injury than baldness
or bunions—that is to say, no amount of
warfare can either start it, or make it worse
once it has started.
:i: * * *
“Sol M.” : A London Court got busy re-
cently on a novel, “The Sleeveless Errand,”
written by Miss Norah James, presumably a
flapper and beautiful. It ordered the whole
SUITABLY DISPOSED OF.
“Daddy, dear, wouldn’t you like to go home?"
“Too right! What does your mother say?"
“That you needn’t wait up for us—we’ve both got our keys.”
edition to be confiscated and destroyed. For
the prosecution it was alleged that the work
was wholly devoid of decency and morality,
but made up for this by blasphemy, and
that it was “degrading muck.” The defence
admitted that there were many ‘horrible
tbings” in the volume, but offered the singu-
larlv ineffective plea that “the author’s in-
tention was fo mirror the life, language.and
habits of certain sections of the community.
That was obvious enough, for when a picture
is painted the usual purpose is to mirror
the object shown therein; but the Court
held that the public could get on better with-
out knowing these sections of the community
if they really existed. How the lady writer
got to know them was not stated. It should
have been an interesting' point.
“Copabella”: The queerest commercial
combination I have encountered in a varied
career was a private boarding-house for
young men run in connection with a waiting-
home for expectant mothers. The place was
conducted by a nurse, and the matrons were
regularly transferred to a maternity hospital
in an adjoining street. Probably Sister did
some careful selecting of her male clients, but
I was never in a more unaffected, unpretend-
ing household; neither men nor women
seemed to be constrained. Almost weekly
the matrons moved on—and Sister would an-
nounce at breakfast a boy or girl, as the
case might be.
* * * *
“Exdig”: If the rolls were called again,
the gaps in the A.I.F. ranks would
be nearly double. After the “missing’
had been sorted out and before the
repatriation of the army had finished
the death-list was 61,000. Since then
it is estimated that the deaths
amongst the men who are receiving
pensions—the onlv ones that can oe
tabulated —have averaged 3000 per
annum. Undoubtedly many who never
received a pension have succumbed.
And be it remembered that over 75
per cent, of the A.I.F. were under
the age of 26 at the time of enlist-
ment.
* *
“Jacobum” : When Wyal o n g
(N.S.W.) was booming, a travelling
dramatic co. engaged the local theatre.
Probably owing to environment it first
put on a play with a goldfield setting.
The fair-haired daughter of an un-
lucky miner had just promised herself
to a wealthy villain to save the family
from starvation, when her father, a
ragged old digger, came whooping on
the stage trundling a wheelbarrow in
which was an immense nugget. The
discomfited villain stood aloof and
pulled viciously at his black moustache
while pdre announced with a sob that
he had struck it rich and his child
was saved. The latter rushed to the
barrow, picked up the nugget (plaster
of Paris and gold paint), and after
fondling it for a while turned to the
old digger with, “Is it really gold,
Daddy?” Daddy’s “Yes, me dear,”
was hardly out before a dinkum digger
in the audience roared, “If that was the real
stuff, Sis, you couldn’t lift it.” A number of
other diggers backed up the interruption;
this led to arguments, and the show closed
up abruptly.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Our cocksure modern world
is always liable to discover that something
it thought was purely the product of its
own genius was common knowledge before
Christ was born. Professor Neumann, of
Breslau, has recently been testing specimens
of Roman sword-blades, preserved in a peat
bog for ages, and therefore immune from
oxidation. The examination shows that the
blades were hard-tempered only on the out-
side. This is exactly the principle rediscov-
ered by British armor-plate makers a quarter
of a century ago, when it was found that the
steel plates'tempered all through when struck
by a projectile shattered to pieces. _ The pro-
blem was solved by leaving the interior of
the plate without the special annealing
process—exactly as the Roman armorers did
ages ago. And, like enough, they were only
rediscovering a lost process.
* * * *
“Delta”: During the big flood on the
Peel River (N.5..W.) in 1910. a family
of seven, including five small children,
were marooned on
the roof of their
house, which was
of wood, on brick
piles, and in dan-
ger of floating away
bodily. No boat
was available, but
there were some
men of resource at
Attunga, the near-
est township. They
commandeered a
case of corrugated
galvanised - iron
and some 12-inch
white-pine shelving
awaiting delivery
to a builder, and,
under the direction
of the blacksmith,
proceeded to knock
together a flat-bot-
tomed boat. The
shelving was used
for sides, boards
from the case made
the flooring, and
the joins were
caulked with tarred
felt in which the
iron had been
packed. Rough
oars were shaped
with an axe, and
iron pegs driven
in the sides
for rowlocks. A
liberal coat of tar
completed the job,
which was finished
in less than half
an hour. Con-
stable Fraser (he
climbed to the
rank of inspector
later) took the
oars, and rowed
the crazy craft twice across the swift current
and back again, bringing the seven to land
and safety.
* * * *
“Herodot”: I, too, recall a country police
constable who relied on the free labor Pro-
vidence sent his way for the cultivation of
a fine vegetable garden (B. 13/2/’29). His
method was simplicity itself. He pinched every
deadbeat who came over the horizon, and
the local Justices did the rest. But the cop
wasn’t an entirely heartless employer, even
if he paid no wages. At the end of the
day’s work he w r ould collect his charges and
march them to the pub, where he shouted a
couple of pints apiece. Back at the station
they were all put in the one cell with cards
and newspapers for their recreation. And
Mrs. J. Hop fed them well, too. In fact, the
place was just getting a good name among
down-and-outs when the authorities at heau-
quarters came to know of it, and transfeired
the constable to the city, llis successor has
only a wood-pile upon which vagrants employ
such energy as they are capable of for regu-
lation meals and no beer.
$ * * *
“E’.less” : “C.Q.” tells us that after the war
stewiirds on the Kanowna were in the
habit of talking politics with a Bolshevik
tinge and throwing crockery and cut-
lery overboard (B. 27/2/’29). Actually,
the ill-fated ship’s second-class pantry, which
he says he was alongside of, was far removed
from any passenger accommodation. The
chief-steward’s room was the nearest cabin,
and that officer would have taken very good
care that no ship’s gear was wilfully dumped.
Outside the Commonwealth Line —which the
unions did run—every chief steward of a
passenger steamer in these waters is boss ot
his department. He is not a unionist, but is
recognised as a company’s officer. As for
the cheap sneer about stewards who had
never seen a shot fired in anger, two of
Australia’s select band of Y.C. winners are
members of the Stewards’ Union.
* * * *
“Methyl”: If the flogging of violent crimi-
nals is to be re-introduced in the Ma
State, as recent legislation indicates, the
prison authorities may have some difficulty
in finding an efficient flagellator, floggers, like
poets, being born rather than made. In Vic-
toria, where the lash has never been put away
on the shelf, the subject has a thick door-
mat placed under his feet. This stops him
from bracing himself to meet each blow, as
his feet merely sink into the matting, and
though it certainly increases the pain, it
also obviates injury to the muscles of the
black. N. S. Wales has all the apparatus
of flogging stowed away in the storeroom at
Long Bay, but it must be getting pretty
rusty.
* * * *
“C.Q.” : In Melbourne the other afternoon,
by way of a change, the fire went to the
fire brigade. A motor-lorry caught alight,
and the driver wasted no time in vain in-
quiries. He tore to the nearest station,
where the firemen fixed him up in a jiffy.
* * * *
“Phil. P.”: Captain James Cook’s Endea-
vor was out of commission 40 years before
1835, nor did she end her days in the
Thames (B. 20/2/’29). After her return
to England the Admiralty passed her out of
the service. In 1790 the old ship was sold
in France, fitted out for whaling, and re-
named La Liberte. Chased by a British
frigate in 1793 she sought shelter in New-
port (U.S.) harbor. Later, when attempt-
ing to leave port, she struck a reef, was
badly damaged, condemned as unseaworthy
and dismantled. A heavy gale in 1815 scat-
tered what was left of her hull. Many
relics of the now-historic vessel were acquired
and preserved by Rhode Island and New
Bedford residents, and in 1828 a box made, it
is said, from part of the keel was presented
to Fenimore Cooper, the novelist, by some
admirers.
* * * *
“P.M.”: I have heard some queer reasons
given for enlisting; an A.I.F. cobber of mine
always blamed a mob of kittens. He was
wheat-farming in partnership, and was en-
gaged to his partner’s sister. The girl
was staying at the farm, where there was
a superfluity of cats of all ages and sizes.
He got up early one morning, milked the
cow and put out a big dish of milk; when
all the kittens within range had collected
round the dish he let fly with both barrels
of a shot-gun. His girl, who had got up
earlier than he expected and witnessed the
performance, promptly jilted him for bar-
barity. A week later he was in khaki.
* * * *
“Hamer”: To that useful institution the
Scarba House, Bondi (Sydney), were re-
cently admitted on the same day (1) the
infant child of a woman who was done to
death in a Balmain street; (2) the small
daughter of a mother killed in a street acci-
dent; (3) a baby which an astonished doctor
found on the seat of his motor-car as he
was about to garage it; and (4) a child
found on a seat in a park Avith no explana-
tion to offer except that her mother had told
her to sit there and had not come back. The
last foundling, should her legitimate sur-
name remain undiseoverable, will be sur-
named, as is the practice of the institution,
after the park where she was found—a
method that will add names like Cammeray
and Tamarama to the directories of the
future. The Home touches some queer
romances. A young man of good family,
whose relatives had bitterly resented his mar-
riage and thrown him on his own resources,
took a navvying job in the country in sheer
desperation at a time when his wife was
about to introduce a second little Australian.
The wife went into hospital and the elder
A FAIR DEAL.
PUDDINY: “You goin’ ter punch Bluey for pinchin’ yer girl off yer?”
LEMONY: “Cripes, no. He .swapped me his scooter for her!”
child was taken by Scarba. The news of
her husband’s death by accident killed the
woman. Her baby followed her. The wealthy
mother of the man dropped dead from shock,
perhaps remorse, when she heard of the dual
tragedy. Her sister, a childless woman, came
to the rescue of the little orphan at Scarba
by adopting her; she will be an heiress some
day.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Vic. Mines Department has been
sinking bores for oil all over Gippsland with-
out success, but one of its recent efforts
will have some effect. The oil it produced
would not have taken the squeak out cf
a toy motor-car, but it is providing 8000
gallons of good water a day, and Lakes
Entrance is to be supplied from it.
* * * *
“Exdig”: The discussion about the wear-
ing of chevrons recalls the order issued in the
spring of 1918 that all men who had won deco-
rations were to sport the ribbons. It led to
a sprouting of colors on breasts where they
were unexpected, the majority of Dig-
gers having forgotten that Windy Bill had
had a period when he was not windy and
had earned distinction, and that Len the
Leadswinger had butted in like a good one
before he lost enthusiasm and developed a taste
for dodging risky jobs. But even the order
failed to induce some holders of decorations
to hoist their colors. “A mail’d be a mug.'
a D.C.M.-winner told me. “The first time
volunteers are wanted for a stunt the S.M.
’ll look for the chaps with the ribbons up
and say, ‘You’ll do.’ ”
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Hardly a week passes without
a cable about somebody, mostly an American,
paying thousands for a manuscript by some
famous author, written within or not far
without the last century. It makes one
wonder what really old writing would fetch,
if it were for sale. At the enthronement of
the latest Archbishop of York in January. I
read in an English paper, the prelate took the
oath “on the Anglo-Saxon Gospels, written
in Latin before the Norman Conquest.” Older
than . Domesday Book, in fact. And even
York’s most precious treasure would doubt-
less be antedated by centuries by some of the
MSS. in Italian and Spanish churches.
* * * *
From a dog-fancier :
The crusade against Alsatians has had the effect of
diverting public attention from dogs that really are
dangerous. Greyhounds are exercised in every public
park, where their graceful appearance evokes approval
rather than alarm. Actually, they are the deadliest
members of the domestic dog world —at any rate
to other animals. Since the days of fabled Dian.i
greyhounds have hunted to kill. They are doina
it as ruthlessly as ever in Australia, as hundred-
of owners of savaged dogs, cats, etc., could testify-
Incidentally, the other animals know all about grey-
hounds. I have seen a normally fearless terrier jump
over a sea-wall into Sydney Harbor, and start swim-
ming for the Heads, on being rushed by a grey-
hound. This terrier feared the water, but he feared
a broken back more.
The most dangerous of all dogs to human beincr?
is the comic-looking Chow. The Chow is essentially
a one-man dog, and any interference with him, how-
ever w-ell-meant, or anything that look? like hostility
to his owmer or home, may bring him into action.
His spring is made without warning, and, like
the greyhound, he lays himself out to do the maximum
of damage in the minimum of time. The Chow s
looks are deceptive, and it is unfortunate that he
makes a special appeal to children. Irish terriers
rank for ferocity and treachery after Chows, bu:
they are rarely dangerous till they are well stricken
in years.
THE TRUTHFUL BARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Clonbinane is a little settlement six or seven miles
from Wandong. The name of Mamble on a fingerpost
led John Drinkwater to write one of his most charm-
ing lyrics. But, in spite of its sonorous name,
Clonbinane has never had its lyric poet.”— Argus.
I climbed a hill to Clonbinane,
And sat me down with a will
To wait some mellow, smooth refrain
Born of the sound of Clonbinane,
A song of God and a green terrain,
A rustic rune in Wordsworth’s vein,
The list’ning world to thrill.
For sure so close to Clonbinane
Must poesy yet spill
Its glamor over slope and plain
To make, in lovely Clonbinane,
Some rhythmic river flow again,
With inspiration’s gentle rain
To feed each rhyming rill.
I looked, in leafy Clonbinane,
My longing to fulfil
In soft, sonorous, lyric strain
To lift the veil from Clonbinane,
To sing each sunuy nook and lane,
Till men held blest this sweet domain
And praised the poet’s skill.
And so in lovely Clonbinane
I might be sitting still;
For rhymes I searched my eager brain
To gild the lily, Clonbinane,
And found —alas for truth’s disdain !
And found, deuce take it, Cloub-inanc,
And left that silly hill.
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


m
mi
a
\
m mi*
:
v;
fragrance
and flavour
freshness
and faVonr
In fact, from
i
Tm CIGARETTES
are unsurpassed


ENGAGEMENT RINGS
©lllfe
€2O
M
€2O
imw
£2O
£2O
rima
€2O
Some of our newest Diamond Designs.
FAIRFAX &• ROBERTS L TQ
25 725 HUNTER ST
7(vs Olni&st House isi Sydney
Ƒ
G
F
ƑG
Built to meet
every demand
of modern
power transmission.
“MANGROVITE” LEATHER
or RAW-HIDE BELTING
Efficient, durable, consistent, guaranteed quality and scientific manufacture summarises “Man-
grovite’ Belting. Here is a belting that will eliminate trouble from your plant-drive, and save
its cost many times over in long trouble-free service.
Consult our engineers on all questions of power transmission.
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.,
Charles Ludowici , Managing Director,
49 YORK STREET (WYNYARD SQUARE), SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Remarkable proofs have been furnished by
the Hoovers that they haven’t forgotten
Australia. On Inauguration Day at Wash-
ington the flag with the five stars was
flown on the Capitol, being the only foreign
flag to be thus distinguished ; and the Young
Australia Leaguers, headed by tall J. J.
Simons, manager of the Perth Mirror and
Call and sometime Labor M.L.A. for East
HARRY BURRELL, the N.S.W. naturalist
and author, who for twenty years has
been studying a great Australian con-
undrum, the platypus.
Perth, were posted near the man who used
to be Bewick, Moreing’s representative in
these parts. A day or two later the Y.A.L.
spent several hours at the AVhite House,
where, after the President had inspected a
parade and shaken every boy by the hand,
they passed into the main reception hall to
be mothered by Mrs. Hoover. Invited' to
visit Australia at the end of the Presidential
term, the lady graciously said it was part of
a plan they had made already; and she
went on to speak affectionately of Kal-
goorlie, Perth, Ballarat and Broken Hill.
“That courtyard with the ferns at the
Criterion Hotel, Perth,” she said; “does it
still exist?” It is such things that appeal to
the great heart of a nation.
The vice-regal Goodwins, of Queensland,
have again been on trek through some of
the smaller towns, but so far they have en-
countered nothing so novel as the experience
which befell them when they made an unex-
pected call on a Labor-mayored city last
Labor Day. The programme consisted of
a Labor procession, Labor sports and a Labor
ball. The Governor (who is a doctor and a
soldier, ranking Lieut.-General) and his wife
became good Laborites for the day and
attended everything on the schedule. The
lady made a pal for life of a small boy
driving a goat-cart, and her lord found in
the local president of the A.L.P. an old
comrade of the war.
Two of The Bulletin’s contributions to the
literature of the King’s illness seem to have
made something of a stir in England—one,
Percival’s drawing of little Australia listen-
ing anxiously at the sick-room door; the
other, a set of Christmas verses, “The King!”
by “T. the R.” (Andree Ilayward). Some
English reader sent a copy of The Bulle-
tin containing Mr. Hayward’s verses to the
Queen at Buckingham Palace, and in due
course the private secretary has been in-
structed to send the Royal acknowledgments
to The Bulletin. Percival’s drawing has
been very widely reproduced.
One of those who testified at the inquiry
in Melbourne to the possibility of the Kan-
owna having struck an uncharted rock, or
one that had been wrongly charted, was
Commauder 11. T. Bennett, It.N. (retired).
Bennett has been proving the incorrectness
of accepted maps nearly all his seafaring life.
He was a junior officer on the surveying ship
Merlin in 1918 when that vessel established
the position of a reef by anchoring on it.
After the war he commanded the Geranium
for five years in Queensland waters. He
found islands there anything up to two and
three miles out of the positions ascribed to
them on the charts. Bennett exchanged the
It.A.N. for the managersh’p of a flourishing
Victorian film-producing firm.
Diggers as well as Tommies regret the
passing of the Rev. Geoffrey S. Kennedy,
who earned the sobriquet of “Woodbine
Willie” by his habit of keeping his pockets
full of c’garettes for soldiers who wanted
them. “Woodbine Willie” gave a Sunday-
evening address to Diggers at the Aldwych
Theatre, London ; the Y.M.C.A. arranged it.
He had been moved to indignation by hearing
some Australians speak slightingly of certain
Tommy regiments. “Things like that,” he
shouted, “make me inclined to say, ‘lf you
knew the blanky conditions in which some
of these men were reared, blast you, you’d
think they had great guts to stand up to it
at all.’ ”' The Diggers gasped at hearing
language like that from a parson; then
their cheers nearly lifted the roof.
“Temple Court”: In London, of late years,
there were only two Anglican clerics from
whose church-doors crowds had to be turned
every Sunday. Dick Sheppard, of St. Mar-
tin’s-in-the-Fields, was one, and “Woodbine
Willie.” who had a church even further east
(St. Edmond’s, Lombard-street), was the
other. I have heard the brilliant Dean Inge
preach to a three-parts empty St. Paul’s on
a Sunday morning, and I have heard Mr.
Kennedy, who was anything but brilliant,
hold a church that was packed to the doors
and walls that evening. He had what the
Dean lacks —simplicity and humanity. He
was a broad-shouldered, deep-chested little
man with a worried, rugged, earnest face,
a fine voice, and a sudden wide smile. It
was in every sense a beautiful smile; it
brightened his discourse like a light. He
was said to have done more, directly and
indirectly, for the poor children of London
than any hundred men.
Claude Crocker, general manager of the
Perth City Council’s electricity and gas de-
partment, died from sudden heart trouble at
the wheel of his motor in Adelaide-tcrrace
the other morning. He was a native of Utah
(U.S.A.) and still in the early fifties. Crocker
came to Australia in 1900. The first half
of the intervening period he spent in man-
aging Ivalgoorlie’s electric system—a sin-
gularly-up-to-date one the goldfield had in
its heyday. The man from Utah had wider
interests than his municipal activities. He
had held the presidency at different times of
the W.A. Institute of Engineers and of the
Australian body, and he was chairman of
W.A. Airways.
William Webb, who died last week at
Murrumbeena (Vic.), in his 96th year, knew
Melbourne before it had a railway, and voted
at the first Parliamentary election. He
did well on the diggings and on pastoral pro-
perties, and in course of time the rest of the
family joined him from Ireland—father, step-
mother, five brothers and six sisters. He
never married. The Alcocks who make the
billiard-tables are nephews, and a niece is the
wife of AAulliam Kelso, owner of Statesman
and Bacchus. The old man himself raced
horses for pastime, as also did his brother
Nat (who with three other brothers and four
sisters predeceased him), and he was one of
the very early members of the V.R.C.
Since Arthur Griffith, formerly N.S.AV.
Minister of AVorks, has been shut out from
political life through his expulsion from the
A.L.P. over the conscription issue and his
refusal to join the Nationalists, he has de-
voted himself to his professional work. Last
week he was elected president of the Insti-
tute of Patents Attorneys. This is the first
occasion on which the position has been held
by a Sydney practitioner; all the former
presidents were Melbourne attorneys.
J. 11. Taylor, Town Clerk of Brighton
(Vic.), is off to Europe on a trip which
he has thoroughly earned. For about 60
years he has been the silent ruler of the
seaside suburb. One of his mayors was the
late Tommy Bent, Speaker and then Premier.
After a half-century in the N.S.W. Tele-
graph service, assistant-superintendent Alf
Tindall retired on March 8. As mes-
senger, telegraphist, testing-officer and
working head (the superintendent’s position
is largely administrative), Tindall, literally
grew up with the branch, and it would be
a safe bet that lie knows every wire in Ma’s
extensive back yard on which a telegram can
be hung. Once
when a storm blew
down half a mile
of the direct Nar-
ribri line it was
Tindall who re-
stored the service
—via Lismore and
along a portion of
a Queensland cir-
cuit. He always
saw “both sides,”
and ha carries with
him into retirement
the best wishes of
the whole State
telegraph staff.
E. J. McMAHON,
the new Income-
Tax Commissioner
in N.S.W., caught
bringing in the first
sheaf of his new
crop of returns.
W. J. Poison, president of the M.L. Far-
mers’ Union and M.P. for the cow-farming
electorate of Stratford, was a journalist be-
fore he became a cocky. As editor of the now
defunct Christchurch Evening News he
achieved a notable scoop by obtaining a ver-
batim report of a speech delivered by Jock
McKenzie to a gathering of Liberals. Poison
was on the other side. McKenzie, a plain,
blunt man, had been telling the adherents
of his side “We want y’r support no sae
much when we’re richt as when we’re juist
plain wrong” ; and the chorus' of indignation
from the Tory newspapers at such an im-
moral sentiment was highly edifying. Some
high-minded Liberals were shocked too —or
professed to be. But Jock was right from a
party point of view, as Mr. Bruce would
testify with heartfelt enthusiasm.
Dr. O’Reilly, rector of St. John’s, Sydney
Uni., leaves for Rome to-morrow to collect
information for his Life of Cardinal Moran,
which is well on its way to completion. He
will visit London and Ireland before re-
turning to St. John’s.
Lieut.-Col. A. J. Reynolds is a Tasmanian
with a distinguished military record gained
abroad. He saw the South African dis-
turbance through with the military forces
of the Speck, then transferred to a British
regiment, and has since passed through some
of the swag'gerest cavalry messes of J. Bull.
During the Great War he was secretary to
the late Sir John Maxwell, and also com-
manded a picked Indian regiment, the Jodh-
pur Lancers. Last year he was appointed
to the command of Hodson’s Horse, a crack
regiment named after the man who raised it
during the Mutiny. It operates on the fron-
tier of India, and its commander reigns for
a four-years’ term.
A wilderness of bricks and mortar has
spread itself over the slopes of the ferny
gully where Emily West was born, 81 years
ago, in Barcom Glen House, Sydney. Where
Boundary-street, Paddington, is now a creek
dividing the parishes of Paddington and Dar-
linghurst then rippled down to the tidal
marches, since reclaimed and turned into Rush-
cutter’s Bay Park. The lady, who died the
other day, was a grand-daughter of the West
to whom the grant of the Barcom Glen
estate was given when Paddington was bush-
land. Her husband, who survives her, was
the Commonwealth’s first Public Service
Commissioner, Duncan McLachlan; he re-
tiredin 1916.
Ethel Campbell, the remarkable young
woman who, during the war, met every
Australian transport at Durban with gifts
of oranges, and flag-wagged her farewells
and good wishes as the ships steamed past
the port breakwater afterwards, is ■still
functioning as the friend and admirer of
our fighting men. She met the Canberra
with the customary crate of oranges and
the customary set of verses as the cruiser
was coaling at her home-town, and renewed
many war-time friendships. Ethel’s verses
in praise of our soldiers and sailors now
run to a book of 24 pages.
Dr. W. S. Newton, who has thrown up
his membership of Vic. Health Commission
after nine years of it, has given lack of
time as his reason for pulling out, but pro-
bably he has come to the conclusion that
the Commission is a futile body. Wallace
Ross, in his report on the public service, re-
commended its abolition, and Beckett pro-
vided in his Health Bill for wiping it out.
Newton is a son of the late H. H. Newton,
Clerk of the Vic. Parliament, and grandson
of a former Vic. P.M.G.
Colonel J. S. Purdy, who has been Syd-
neys Health Officer lor the last 16 years,
is back on the job after a holiday tour of
Malaya. A Northumbrian, he took his medi-
cal degrees at Aberdeen, and was in the
quarantine service in Egypt before coming
to the southern hemisphere. He was sur-
geon with the Maorilainl Mounted Rifles in
South Africa, being attached to Plumer’s
famous flying column, and the greater war
found him following the drum again. He was
special sanitary officer at Cairo in the days
when that delectable city was the centre about
which many thousands of British troops of
all varieties were grouped. Hobbies —after
sanitation —are chess and writing for the
press. He did some capital South African
War stuff for the Commonwealth Mili-
tary Journal.
The R.A.A.F. had another peacetime
casualty added to its long list when Flying-
officer Warland was burned to death ut
Wangaratta (Vic.). lie and Flight-Lieu
tenant Svvinbourne were en route from Rich-
mond (N.S.W.) to Point Cooke, and had
landed to get a supply of petrol. Taking
off from a bumpy field instead of the aero-
drome that a town of the size should be
supplied with, they struck a fence and nose-
dived. Warland was an Englishman who
enlisted in Melbourne and was wounded
twice in France. Swinbourne, who was
burned severely in trying to rescue his mate,
has had a previous remarkable escape. lie
was helping to escort the Adelaide express,
which had Lord and Lady Stonehaven
aboard, when he crashed. Although injured,
he told the other ’planes which went to his
assistance not to mess up the show, but con-
tinue their escort of the train.
Sir John Denison Denison-Pender, chair-
man of the Eastern and Associated Cable
Companies, who passed over at 74 in London
the other day, bore a name as distinguished
in British cable circles as that of Booth is
in the Salvation Army. The first Pender
was a cotton manufacturer who, in the face
of world-wide scepticism, believed that sig-
nalling on wires across the Atlantic was a
possibility. He backed his belief to the
extent of his entire fortune. The first cable
parted half way across. A second was made,
and this, too, parted, but the engineers had
learnt a bit and the end was recovered. It
was safely landed in the States, Queen Vic-
toria exchanged greetings with the Presi-
dent, but the cable never spoke again, and
another half-million was left on the floor
of the Atlantic. The third attempt succeeded,
and from it grew the huge British combine,
which spread all over the seven seas and still
owns under the merger over 50 p.c. of the
world’s submarine communication. Pender’s
son, just deceased, succeeded the old man
in the management, and his son, Colonel
Pender, has succeeded him.
Dr. C. F. Warren, who is resigning from
the job of treasurer to the N.S.W. Rugby
Union, is a stalwart of the amateur code
who has done great service for it since the
war. An English international, lie has been
many years in Australia, and Macquarie-
street knows him as one of its shining lights.
Like Jack Meredith, who commanded the
D. A. GLEDSON, Queensland Minister for
Labor and Industry.
First Light Horse, the doctor chose to woo
the bubble reputation at the Emma Gee’s
mouth as a fighting mail. He commanded a
battalion in France with credit, and now
commands the liking of every follower of
amateur sport who knows a whole-hearted
enthusiast when he sees one.
NOW IS IT ?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
llow is it, when relentless age steals on you
with insistence,
The memory of days remote obscures the
middle distance?
How is it, when life’s winter comes, though
autumn months were nearer
And summertime you held your prime, the
springtide rises clearer?
How is it, though you may have looked on
mighty things and many,
The scenes of furthest back are more indelible
than any?
How is it that remembrances you conjure
up in plenty
Of years twoscore ago or more, plainer than
those of twenty?
Youth’s triumphs, failures, joys and griefs,
however cramped the setting,
The more the years that intervene the harder
the forgetting;
The very hands in fancy touched, the, tones
in dreams so winning,
Vanished and stilled, they gripped and thrilled
with manhood scarce beginning.
’Tis not that friends were stauncher then,
’tis not that hearts were truer,
But why are distant fields so green and olden
skies the bluer?
llow is it, when you take your place among
the elder gentry,
Your thoughts career past yester-year back
into yester-cent’ry?
N.S.W.
IFORD.


MANY SHEPHERDS, FEW SHEEP.
“The Federal Capital will have no less than eight churches on the way to completion before the end of the year.”
Poverty
Point
“Eureka”: The most versatile musician of
my acquaintance was a man who was given
a farewell concert at Bombala (N.S.W.).
After playing a tune on every instrument in
the band, he turned his attention to all the
stringed instruments available, which in-
cluded violin, ’cello, guitar, harp and banjo.
Then he played tunes on the flute, mouth-
organ, accordion, concertina, tin-whistle,
oboe and a gumle_af, concluding with “Home,
Sweet Home” on a pair of smoking-pipes
that were presented to him. He got the
tune out of the tobacco instruments by beat-
ing them together.
“Gad”: Obituary references to the Jersey
Eily recall that in the height of her youth
and beauty Vanity Fair came out with a
cartoon of the Prince of Wales (later
Edward VII.), at Ascot, gazing on the beau-
tiful Lily in intense admiration. The thing
was so animated that its reproduction was
suppressed, and it is now among the most
valuable and rare of Vanity Fatr cartoons.
My first, and last, gaze on Mrs. Langtry was
in the theatre at Aldershot (19.1.7), where
she “acted” a piece in a music-hall turn. It
was a most depressing exhibition.
“Cauboy”: It may interest those who
arrive at theatres in a state of semi-starva-
tion to know that the din of feeding
is as disturbing to the people on the stage
as it is to those members of the audience
who have had a decent meal before leaving-
home. A leading actress recently confided
to me the following impressions of the aver-
age Australian audience. In the first act,
after the arguments be tween ushers and late
arrivals have subsided, there is a compara-
tive cessation of hostilities. At the first
interval approximately 1000 young men go
out and buy 1000 boxes of sweetmeats.. The
second act is marked first by a series of
minute explosions, resembling distant shrap-
nel—the breaking of the stout ribands of silk
round the boxes. Then follows what sounds
like the breaking of innumerable twigs. The
young men are splitting the strong celluloid
envelopes around their caskets. Next the
auditorium is filled with an insidious hissing
like the tongues of serpents. The gals are
burrowing amongst the tissue paper for their
favorite soft ceptres. So characteristic is
this food barrage of an Australian audience
that the actress aforementioned places more
importance on it than on the hand-clapping.
If in an emotional scene she hears, it lift,
if only for a moment, she knows she is doing
better than usual.
The Shadow Showman: If “O Ivay”
(B. 27/2/’29) will read my remarks again
he will see that I did not say that “the flesh-
and-blood show has nothing to fear from the
talkies.” What I said was that the talkies
are not likely to damage it permanently. If
the legitimate stage goes on as it is going
it has everything to fear. The screen can
beat it at melodrama and every other low-
grade form of theatrical amusement. But
it cannot give the world an Irene Vanbrugh,
a Jane Cowl, a Pavlova or a Kreisler—at
least, not such as will satisfy the discrimina-
ting. The undiscriminating will continue, to
prefer the counterfeit to the genuine article
just as they prefer synthetic scruash to real
lemon juice.
“O. Kay”: The success of Paramount’s
talking production, “Interference” (B.
27/2/'29), is no argument in favor of
American diction, as some critics have sug-
gested. Its chief players are Clive Brook
(English), Evelyn Brent (Canadian), Wil-
liam Powell (English) and Clyde Cook (Aus-
tralian).
“D.”: Lilian Baylis, who has been made
a Companion of Honor, has produced Shak-
speare at the Old Vic. every year since 1914
at popular prices, and confused all the pro-
phets by making money. The Old Vic.
(otherwise the Royal Victoria Hall) is in
the Waterloo-road, which, if not a slum
itself, is surrounded by slums. An effect of
her success, has b Q en to spur on the moneyed
intelligentsia of Britain to support a scheme
to rebuild Sadler’s Wells Theatre and hand
it over to Lilian and her company for the
production of the . plays in the First Folio
and other classics. Sadler’s Wells, like
the “Old Vic..” is out of the theatre area.
It is away up north towards Islington ; and
Gosw-ffl-streot. where Mr. Pickwick lodged,
is only a stone’s-tkrow away. But it is
fairly accessible to the West End via
Oxford-street, and it is full of historical
associations, every great nineteenth-century
figure of the London stage having appeared
there. Lilian Baylis is the only actress who
has ever been given an M.A. (honoris
causa ) by Oxford University.
“Frescott” (Q.) : “Demetrius” (8.13/2/’29)
is a bit astray regarding the frequent visits
of Melba to her onetime Bananaland place
of abode. I have not heard of her return-
ing this way for over a decade. Once dur-
ing her residence in the Townsville district it
is said she offered to assist at the annual
local hospital concert, and was advised by
the secretary that they already had plenty
of talent. She was not so well known then.
Incidentally, Gladys Moncrieff’s first profes-
sional tour of Queensland was under the
aegis of her father, who toured with one of
tiie early “pitcher” plants, while Gladys
assisted by singing illustrated songs of love
and sorrow. She did not receive any assist-
ance from this part of the globe, unless
being exploited by various institutions for
what they could make out of her ability can
be called’ “assistance.”
“Old Bill”: Ethel Walker (B. 13/2/’29)
was Fairy Queen in two Tait pantomimes
about 1919 and 1920. About seven years ago
she went to U.S.A.. and since then lias
toured as Teresa in “Maid of the Mountains”
and many other prominent roles.
“Salambo” : Maoriland has got in ahead of
Australia with a talkie. The effort is “The
Daughter of Auckland,” evolved by Rudolph
Hayward, an industrious producer.
“Hamfat”: Kenneth Duffield, Adelaide-
born composer of several lig'ht revues that
had a run in Melbourne and Sydney three
years ago, is back from London with a new
success to his credit. Dion Titheradge supplied
the libretto and lyrics for the compositions,
and Duffield is trying to induce the Taits
to bring Dion and the joint confection out.
Titheradge was born in Melbourne, but he
has not been in Australia since he was here
with Lewis Waller and his sister Madge.
“Demetrius”: How quickly the influence
of a great drama is felt in the higher intel-
lectual strata of a community! One of the
fine lines in “The Wrecker” is one in which
the hero calls the fourth villain a “septic
swine,” a neat and classic-flavored allitera-
tion that caught the imagination of audi-
ences tuned to appreciation by lyrics like
“Hallelujah, I’m a Bum!” It was not three
days from the “Wrecker’s” 'premiere before
the phrase was tossed lightly across the
floor of N.S.W. Parliament. And there are
persons who say our legislators do not study
the finer points of contemporary art!
“Lao-dah”: The dirtiest smack hitherto
accorded the filmateers comes from, of all
places, Canton, where the Censor has
severely cut “Ben Hur,” the parts objected
to being those connected with the birth of
Christ, the star of Bethlehem, the resurrec-
tion of the dead, a child healing a leper and
the sudden darkening of the firmament, the
earthquake and other phenomena connected
with the Crucifixion. The Celestial preju-
dice to these scenes is announced to be based
on the theory that they are absurd and fic-
titious and tend to cultivate a belief in
superstition. British newspapers describe
this action as a “ludicrous spectacle,”, but it
is not as ridiculous as it seems. It is true
that the Chinese masses are a prey to super-
stitions that would hardly be given credence
even in Dayton, Tennessee. On the other
hand, the official faith of China is Confu-
cianism, and Confucius was .an out-and-out
materialist, whose sole religion was gentle-
manly behavior and respect for the memory
of one’s ancestors.
“Theseus”: One of the points in which
repertory is able to score over the legit, (as
now conducted) is in retaining type-players
for types. Under. starring rules every part
played by a star has to conform to his or
her type, whether it is flapping through
light comedy or glooming in grisly Grand
Guignol. Betty Rae, of Melbourne Reper-
tory Club, whose picture appeared in a
recent Bulletin, is a type-player who sticks
to the type in which she excels, screechy,
harridanish or low-comedy old women.
Small-statured and wiry, she Makes up
cleverly to suit the role.
“Schnorrer”: Cantor Rosenblatt, whose
voice is heard in the Cinesound production,
“The Jazz Singer,” held out for a long tim6
against offers that might have tempted a
Caruso; he seems to have got over the idea
that his voice was dedicated to the Deity.
He gave away his money with both hands,
and made it a boast that any poor Jew who
came to his house would find a place at his
table; and although the richest Jewish Syna-
gogue in New York (which means in the
world) paid him a princely salary, he went
bankrupt a couple of years ago. It was
in response to pressure from his creditors
that he made some gramophone records. He
has now gone a bit further.
“Sacred Lamp”: New York theatrical
circles have been intrigued by the resigna-
tion from the cast of “The Squeaker,” in
which she was the star, of Ruth Shepley, one
of America’s leading actresses in the legi-
timate. Her reason was the introduction to
the cast of the notorious “Peaches” Brown-
ing, whose lurid proclivities, as outlined in
her divorce case, caused even the doors of
Hollywood to be slammed in her naughty
if delectable face. We have had the same sort
of thing here once or twice, but the public
never took kindly to the experiments. Of
course things have changed utterly since my
time, and the coulisses are now synonymous
with the cloisters for chastity. There were
notorious actresses then, but with a differ-
ence. It was the invariable rule that they
became famous as actresses, dancers, singers,
and what not first, and then went after the
notoriety, which most of them caught in a
common canter.
“Cine Ma” : Paramounts have taken a com-
plete header into the talking film business.
In the next six months they will launch 22
vocal pictures, ranging from “Abie’s Irish
Rose” to big feature films like “The Letter.”
In addition, they are putting on sound ver-
sions of a series of Saturday Evening Post
short stories by a single author. There is a
hint there for the Australian producer. The
plots of most local movies to date have been
pitifully banal, although there is a mine
of good material in The Bulletin’s back
pages.
THE INSULTED MUSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“These movies and talkies,” he said,
“Occasion me tension severe.”
He shook, poor old mummer, his head,
And I couldn’t but notice the tear
That fell in the tankard of beer
He was slowly preparing to drink.
“How Thalia ’d wince, were she here,
And what would Melpomene think!
“It's not that they’ve robbed me of bread
And closed my dramatic career;
It’s not that the outlook ahead
Was never so dull and so drear.
No, laddie, my personal cheer
In stageland’s debacle I sink.
But Thalia ’d reckon it queer,
And w r hat would Melpomene think!
“H’ave Garricks and Siddonses fled?
For ever and ever, I fear.
And managers offer instead
Just shanes to a sheet that adhere.
Canned voices that grate on the ear
With flickering phantoms they link.
H'ow’d Thalia take it, poor dear,
And -what would Melpomene think!”
None answered. He passed from our sphere
And someone opined it was clear
He’d a kind of a sort of a kink.
Vet now, oft as talkies I hear
I ask me how Thalia ’d rear
And what would Melpomene think!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


:;vsg.
I m
JSflSf
mm
i OHtttSm 1
~'*%K
■
f
,* - .
* gf g <’>■ 1
*
u rW< :' ;
V
*i'l:
>i *% wm . 4 ; i '
. - V-'» , ~.
./'/’Jr ’!
-M '
S2i«
X.iidi .!■ ■ -;
®* s i.;’ mmrnm
i
N
iilSi
■ r > -V
■
Hi
IP*
wMfywj
mm
IHS
.
111111 l
:.\ .1,
....
i- <*•»
fei/gp
; :
SKI
- .*-*“1
liliSf*
ggjg|
m.
mm
/# -■■
t
■
mm.
ss : lm
FULLY FASHIONED
? -.
4 ‘
mmsm


F
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD.
Total Assets exceed £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—■
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders. (3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Hit the Deck”
Criterion “Young Woodley”
Royal “The Wrecker”
Palace “White Collars”
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Desert Song”
Royal “The Marionettes”
King’s “The Flying Squad”
New Comedy ' “Applesauce”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
♦
“Young Woodley,” by John van Druten,
having its first Australian run at Adelaide
Royal, shows the sex delicacy which at first
made England think it ban-worthy in dia-
logue rather than in subject. A set of
schoolboys have the curiosity of their kind,
and express it freely. \Voodley, who is too
innocent to be probable—but otherwise there
would be no play—has a romantic passion for
a master’s wife, is allowed to kiss her, and,
being discovered by tin; husband, claims that
she is therefore his and he will take her
away—living, presumably, on his pocket-
money. As the easiest way out, she declares
that she was only joking, and he is heart-
broken ; later she admits that she was not,
but the disillusionment is complete. A tragic
trifle, this study of a nice boy's heartbreak;
but audiences tend to see rather a humorous
absurdity in it.
The acting is brilliant, especially that of
Lewis-Shaw as the tragic-comic adolescent
and Natalie Moya as the girl, infinitely older
in experience though only a trifle in years.
Frank Iloyde (who is also producer) does
well with the husband’s difficult part.
Macowan is sound as a manly boy, and
Preston uncanny as a foul-minded one ; and
Guy Hastings is the well-meaning bewildered
father who had not supposed that a school-
boy could be a Problem.
* * *
Jascha Spivakovsky, the Russian pianist,
has considerably improved his technique and
broadened his musical understanding since
ERICA MORINI, who will play her violin for the first time
in Australia at Sydney Town Hall on Easter Saturday.
he last played in Australia, seven years
ago. In his opening concert at Sydney Town
Hall on Saturday evening, he pluckily chose
as his first offering Max Reger’s amazingly
complex and erudite “Variations and Fugue
on a Theme by Bach.” The theme is a
noble and striking one; the 14 variations are
devised to utilise to their utmost the re-
sources of modern pianism and the fugue
is a piece of polyphonic writing worthy of
the great Bach himself. The matured Spiva-
kovsky, in this as in other works, revealed
himself as a musical impressionist. He paints
his tones with a broad brush. The twining
and intermingling floods of sound, however
complicated their plan, are meticulously
balanced and controlled until some soaring
climax lifts the lid off
~As there are no standards of comparison
available —the Reger variations have never
before been publicly performed in Australia
—the work is not a sound basis on which to
assess Spivakovsky’s powers. In the sweets
and savories that followed the ground was
more familiar. For his Chopin bracket of
four numbers the Russian, who seems to
revel in digital problems, chose the C Minor
Nocturne, the “Revolutionary” and “Butter-
fly” Etudes and then the “Heroic” Polonaise.
It was a very robust and somewhat austere
Chopin that sang through Spivakovsky’s fin-
gers and feet—the pianist’s pedalling has
a more important part in his playing than
in that of most other virtuosos who have
visited this country—and his left hand pass-
ages, particularly that galloping of octaves
iu the middle section of the Polonaise, were
superb. It was magnificent, but it wasn’t
Chopin, who dealt in traceries as light
but as well defined in pattern as the most
delicate laep. The phantom soldiers that
should march despairingly through the “Re-
volutionary” were stout fellows of con-
siderable avoirdupois and there was even a
touch of cheerfulness about them. The hack-
neyed Gluck-Brahms Gavotte, on the other
hand, was played in a sentimental manner
more appropriate to a valse than to the
stateliest of formal dances. Most satisfac-
tory, from the point of view of this Showman,
was Liszt’s Twelfth Rhapsody. The Abbe’s
rich orchestral style has a very fine exponent
in Spivakovsky; he played the gypsy tunes
as if he loved them and revelled in the thun-
der and lightning of the coda.
Spivakovsky is well worth listening to.
After four months ef musical banalities he
comes like rain to the Never Never.
¥ ¥ *
Anyone who gives to entertainment the
simple definition “something that entertains”
will find “White Collars,” at Sydney Palace,
true to label. Also, there is an additional and
glorious reason why it should not be missed.
The thing of glory is the distinctly English
accent of Compton Coutts battling with the
supposition that its owner is a fair dinkum
member of the American family in whose
living-room the play
is mostly acted. Other
members of the party
—Elizabeth Mear s,
Raymond Van Sickle,
Leonard Doyle, Wyr-
ley Birch, Nan Taylor
and Leona Hogarth—
have the native accent
in about that order of
intensity. Miss Mcars
utters it with wonder-
fully rasping effect;
from Miss Hogarth it
comes faintly and
quite attractively.
The rest and the few
others in the piece
strike various chords
in it, whether they
are all true citizens of
democracy or not.
Then,’ every now and
again, Mr. Coutts
speaks, and the result
is something like ask-
ing for grapefruit in
a cash-and-carry store
and being served with
a copy of Punch.
Apart from this,
which is incidental
and very generous
value for the money,
the play . itself is a
good entertainer. It
belongs to a definite
class of American
light plays—intimate
little family complexi-
ties, miraculously snob-
bish, but amusing and
phenomenally clean.
“The Patsy” is of the
order, and so is “The
Family Upstairs.”
“White Collars” is so
much like both that it
scarcely calls for de-
scription. Undisguised
snobbery is the root of
them all; not the
snobbery of superior-
ity which has been
particularly and frequently held the
English, but the snobbery of inferiority
which American playwrights, picture-makers
and writers are hanging upon their coun-
try.
Here a millionaire marries his typist, goes
to her middle-class home and asks to be
accepted as an ordinary human. One mem-
ber of the household has decided views on
the rights of the class which, so to speak,
carries the baby produced by the disunion of
the rich on the one hand and the poor on
the other. Efforts on the part of the rich
new T relation to better the family’s eondi-
tions he regards as charity, and harangues
the family into thinking likewise. They all
hold out very well, too, until through a losing
of jobs they are threatened with utter pov-
erty, which means joining the under-class.
At this time also the millionaire asserts that
lie has been converted and is going to give
all his money away to charity. Then the
members of the family, including the cham-
pion of the middle-class, join in chorus to
keep the cash in hand and waive the rest,
and suspense is released by the fact that the
millionaire has had the few jobs removed in
order to bring the
family round to a
sane way of thinking.
The technique of the
play is faulty and
mechanical. Badly
acted it could be very
dreary. It happens to
be well acted. The
players, particularly
Raymond Van Sickle.
VVyrley Birch, Leona
Hogarth, Elizabeth
Mears and Nan Tay-
lor, manage to create
a thoroughly convinc-
ing atmosphere. Even
the alien accent of.
Compton Coutts does
not destroy that atmo-
sphere ; if anything, it
accentuates its reality.
Van Sickle and Miss
Mears, respectively the
middle-class champion
and the young daugh-
ter in the family who
wants to marry filthy
lucre and isn't
ashamed of the ambi-
tion, stand out from a
generally even com-
pany, mainly because
their parts are richer
than the others.
If such plebeian
things as peanuts were
eaten at the Prince
Edward, Sydney, one
usher to every three
and a half chewers
would be provided to
do the shelling. The
management springs a
new titillating dodge
at every change of
programme l —the latesi:,
a presentation of a
bouquet to every femi-
nine being who was
there Inst Friday
night. The show itself
was quite good, chiefly
owing to the presence of “White Shadows of
the South Seas,” a movie with more dramatic
content to the reel than can be found in
the entire current offerings on Harborsido
legitimate stages. So long as theatrical man-
agements on the legit, side try to ngnt
serious entertainment of this quality with
clanking “Wreckers” they will eminently
deserve what they will certainly get. lhe
rest of the Prince Edward bill is common-
place, except for one orchestral outbreak
which has a fair amount of noisy merit.
¥ V V
. The Regent changed on Saturday to one
of the most ambitious talkies yet screened
in Australia. The picture, “In Old Arizona,
fills in nearly the whole bill, but doesn t de-
serve to do so. It is considered in Shadow
Show's.
* * *
“Explosions,” offered at Sydney Grand
Opera House on Saturday, was the custom-
ary fare which this theatre’s patrons swallow
with much enthusiasm —probably because it
calls for no digestion. A sort of united
variety, it is a cheerful show which stays
mostly on an ordinary level, but gets of! a
good surprise every now and then. The co.
is weak only when it tries to be strong; in
light, amusing numbers it can tickle w'ith the
best of them. Arline Paterson still does a
lion and a half’s share of the work.
* * *
The operatic excerpts handled by John
Priora, Rene Maxwell, Lilian Gibson and
Alfred Cunningham were getting the hearing
they deserved when this Showman looked in
at Sydney Tiv. last week. So were the
juggling and smart patter of Davey, who
differs from most of his breed in being
assisted by a lady whose proportions and
actions do not offend the eye. Jack Barty’s
jests did not sound very good on a second
hearing, but a tenth hearing of the Tom
Katz saxophonists left undisturbed the long-
held impression that they are a jolly good
variety turn.
* * *
Sammy Shields arrived recently at Mel-
bourne Tivoli in a tropical downpour of Scot-
tish jests. He and Mack and La Rue, twm
clever persons upon skates, lift the present
programme out of the rut wherein Vine and
Russell, the two unfunny comedians from
London, and others of their kind trudge appa-
rently to their own contentment and the dis-
satisfaction of their hearers. The Syd Roys
continue to provide a background of jazz to
the rapid movements and pleasing contours
of Beryl Evetts, “England’s Champion
Charleston Dancer,” and Jean Florian is
the boy wonder juggler, which is the worst
than can be said against him.
¥ * ¥
On Saturday week a new amateur theatre
will open in auspicious circumstances beside
the Harbor. The house is the Turret, at
Milson’s Point, and the first show is an
Australian-made opera—“Teora,” by Alfred
NATALIE MOYA, the wife in “Young Woodley,” introduced
to Australia at Adelaide.
Hill, of tlie Sydney Conservatorium. “Teora”
is to be staged for the first time, and there
will be only two performances, each of which,
owing to the condensed-milk nature of the
theatre, can be seen by only 150 persons.
* * *
“Spread Eagle,” described on the bills as
a “turbulent pasquinade on international
tendencies and conditions of to-day,” written
with “such high spirits, such jestful and
taunting scorn, that it fortunately avoids the
sermonising of many modern plays,” is the
piece upon which Sydney Playbox is relying
to usher in its 1929 series. Even if it is
far short of the promise, the play earns the
Macdougallists a pat of encouragement for
the single reason that in putting it on they
are at least trying to give Il’arborside audi-
ences drama. The Williamsons and the Ful-
lers seem content to potter away filling their
coffers with the harvest that grows from
piffle-seed. The answer to that, of course,
is that serious drama doesn’t pay, and the
answer to that, of course, is that the profes-
sional stage is fin undisguised commercial
affair; it cannot have it both ways.
* * *
Sydney Town Hall and its “500 comfort-
able seats” will be the setting for Jascha
Spivakovsky’s third concert to-morrow
(Thursday) night. He will play for the fourth
and last time in the present series on Satur-
day night. Another choice concert pro-
gramme is advertised for .the same address
on March 30, when Miss Erica Morini will
play her violin for the first time in Aus-
tralia.
* * *
Yet another 4000-seater picture palace will
commence catering for the joy and enlighten-
ment of Melbourne on Friday night, •when
the Regent opens in Collins-street. The
State Theatre having secured a lien on all
available adjectives except “dignified,” that
word is being employed to describe the
Regent; so there is no foundation for the
rumor that one of its sensations will be
replicas of the brains of leading movie stars,
exposed under powei-ful microscopes. Actu-
ally the Regent’s exterior is chaste and reti-
cent, and if the interior proves to be the
same The Bulletin will be pleased to spend
its rest cures therein, if and when invited by
the management.


“Pioneer” Means Dependable Power Transmission.
$
es
IS HI
What are your most difficult belting problems? Are
they heavy, gruelling main drives where the belt must
withstand the constant strain of transmitting hundreds
of horse-power day in and day out, or light, high-
speed drives where extreme accuracy is essential to
minimise vibration and slippage?
hatever your problems may be you will find
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
absolutely dependable under all conditions
experience are at your disposal in helping
We know working conditions.
of service. Our 70 years of belting
to solve your particular problems.
J. C. LUDOWICI (El SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Tanners and Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoev Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell & Sons,
Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland.
Patterson >k Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard ot Quality throughout the Empire,
iVonobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HAVE YOU MADE YOUR WILL 7
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (Limited) i, apecielly qua lified\o a ct
as hxecutor and I rustee. Among its advantages are—SECURITY CON
TINUITY OF MANAGEMENT (i, dee, „o, die), ACCESSIBILITY n? u
always available to its clients), EXPERIENCE (it has handled almost every
class of asset). Its CHARGES ARE MODERATE.
DIRECTORS:
T. H. KELLY (Chairman).
Dr. R. L. FAITHFULL.
Sir SAMUEL HORDERN.
Managing Director: R. COPLAND
WALTER T. BRUNTON.
HERBERT R. LYSAGHT.
SHEPHEARD E. LAIDLEY.
LETHBRIDGE.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
33-39 HUNTER STREET,. SYDNEY.
Write For Booklet. Manager : H. V. DOUGLASS.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
, Dividends. To Re- Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1918. .220,747 30,000 11 p.c.= 55,000 135,747 312,521
1919. .289,387 30,000 11 „ „ 55,000 ?C4,387 516,908
1920. .199,212 30,000 14 „ „ 70,000 99,212 616,120
1921. .184,372 30,000 14 „ „ 70,000 84,372 700,492
1922. .205,243 30,000 15 „ „ 75,000 100,243 800.735
Transferred to Capital .. £260,000 650,735
1923. .159.479 30,000 12 p.c.= 90,000 39,479 590,214
1924. .142,315 30,000 12$ „ „ 93,750 18,565 608,779
1925. .133.005 30,000 12* „ ~ 93,750 9,255 618,031
1926. .198,008 30,000 16 ~,,120,000 48,008 666,042
1927. .153,881 30,000 14 „ ~105,000 18,881 681,923
1928. .133,801 30,000 10 „ ;, 75,000 28,801 713,724
Only once since 1916 has a less profitable
result been disclosed. The ill effects of
unrest in the shipping and coal industries
are reflected in the latest accounts. Con-
spicuous amongst the co.’s troubles was
the marine cooks’ strike in April, May
and June, which was followed by tin
waterside workers’ strike in September and
October. These two hold-ups left prac-
tically the whole of the co.’s fleet idle on
each occasion. Thus from one cause and
another the board wrote the year’s net
profit (£124,457) at £18,550 below that
claimed for the previous term.
That was after unexplained additions had
been made to the reserve and insurance
funds. These stood at £390,000 and £294,261
respectively at Dec. 31, and are included
with the lay-by shown in the table. In
1926 £48,419 slipped into the reserve fund
as the result of an adjustment of accounts
and a surplus on the sale of assets. The
sale of more assets put into the same store
£2123 in 1927 and £9S7 last year. Additions
to the insurance fund, which, by the way,
was not visibly affected by the loss of the
Rivex-ina early in 1927, were in 1926, £8525;
1927, £8751; 1928, £8356. These move-
ments account for the difference between
the profit claimed by the accounts and those
shown above.
After allowing for the pref. requirements
the £103,801 of the year’s profit that re-
mained was 13.8 p.c. on the ordinary capi-
tal (£750,000) compared with 16.5, 22.4,
13.7, 14.9 and 17.2 p.c. back to 1923. And
that is not putting the best face on things
either. There is, in addition to the re-
serves above, provision for “contingencies,
taxation, repairs and maintenance, boilers
and renewals, superannuation fund, etc.”
This pile has grown from £30,000-odd at
the close of accounts in 1913 to £407,095
at Dec. 31 last. Movements in the fund
over the last half-dozen years have been
as follows:
1923 .. ..£347,178 Decrease £11,340
1924 .. . . 354,502 Increase 7,324
1925 . . . . 351,981 Decrease 2,521
1926 .. .. 364,142 Increase 12,161
1927 . . . . 380,213 „ 16,071
1928 . . . . 407,095 „ 26,882
There is no doubt that some—probably a
substantial portion—of that accumulation,
is true profit. It amounts to 34.5 p.c. of the
book value of the fixed assets (£1,179,310),
which include some unspecified holdings in
other cos. The lot are taken in at valuation.
That and the profit on sales suggests that
other than visible provision has been made
for depreciation, etc. Treating the whole of
the fund for assorted contingencies as true
profit the year’s net result, after providing
for the prefs., was 17.4 p.c. on ordinary capi-
tal a s against 18.6. 24, 13.3, 15.9 and 15.7
p.c. back to 1923, the year following the 50
p.c. gift issue. But since the co.’s immedi-
ate outlook is less certain than it was
a year ago the 4s. bonus which was attached
to the previous year’s distribution, was
clipped off, leaving the div. at 10 p.c.
The co.’s outside investments are now more
substantial than its shipping interests, and
the bulk of them apparently are good profit-
earners. The co. controls the Hebburn and
Metropolitan Coal cos., has holdings in Aber-
main-Seaham and Broken Hill Prop, col-
lieries, owns a half-interest in Tasmanian
Steamers, Ltd., and has a share interest in
Amalgamated Wireless. Besides that lot
there is £1.342.306—d0wn £68.566 during the
year—in Government securities, debentures
and other investments at valuation. Some
of this harvest was gathered from the sale
of old vessels during the war years, and
having held off buying while new tonnage
prices were high, the co. has saved the profit
won.
Last year a new passenger motor-vessel—
the Westralia —was ordered, and is to be
placed in commission this. One of the
old ships was sold, thus reducing the fleet to
10 vessels—two passenger and eight cargo —
apart from tugs, lighters and the Melbourne
Bay steamers. Despite the sale the book
value of ships, shares, etc., advanced
£101,303 during the year. Here is as much
of the position as balance-sheet figures dis-
close :
1924. 1927. 1928.
Ships, etc £1,055,442 £1,078,007 £1,179,310
Cash .. . . 35,127 44,517 73,017
Book debts .. 159,817 134,810 136,581
Investments . . 1,283,256 1,410,872 1,342.306
Stores . . . . 54,441 55,042 44,549
Total assets .. £2,588,083 £2,723,248 £2,775,763
Less liabilities.. 311,052 340,613 352,443
Net assets .. £2,277,031 £2,382,635 £2,423,320
Despite the year’s difficulties, shareholders
were visibly £40,685 better off than at the
previous balance. And, as usual, the finan-
cial position was very snug, though the more
or less liquid surplus (£1.244,010) was
£60.618 less than at the previous balance.
The market, which paid 495. for the ords.
a year ago, now prices them at 465. After
allowing for the div. (Is.) the return at that
price is 4.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis, and
that is the lowest rate that the co. has paid
since 1917. The backing amounts to 495. lid.
in net tangibles, including the contingency,
etc., reserve. The well-protected 6 p.c. cum.
prefs. remain steady around par.
Queensland Meat Export Co.
To Re-
Nov., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 52,719 8 p.c. = 52,398 321 117,137
1919.. 26,585 Nil 26,585 143,', 22
1920.. 27,029 6 p.c. = 39,299 131,452
Loss.
1921.. 79,785 Nil 51,667
1922.. 1,610 Nil 60,057
Profits.
1923.. 3,069 Nil 3,069 53,126
1924.. 1,162 Nil 1,162 64,288
1925.. 26,751 4 p.c. = 26,199 552 54,840
Loss.
1926.. 13.488 Nil 41,352
Profits.
1927.. 12,677 Nil 12,677 64,029
1928.. 34,158 6 p.c. = 32,749 1,409 55,438
The spring of £21,451 in the year’s net
earnings, making them 5.2 on paid capital
as against 1.9 p.c. in the previous term, was
encouraging, but it did not put much of a
sparkle into the figures. Still it is easily the
co.’s best performance since the Australian
beef exporter fell upon hard times following
the termination of the British meat purchase
scheme and the stranglehold which the Argen-
tine got on British and Continental markets
with chilled beef.
Chief factor contributing to last year’s
improvement was a firm market in the U.K.
for frozen beef. The killing season here
opened early, and as about two-thirds of
Queensland’s pastoral areas had a satisfac-
tory season cattle averaged up well and the
quality was better than in the previous year;
hence the co.'s products sold readily at im-
proved prices. Also, during the dry spell
in N. S. Wales and Vic. a year or so ago,
Queensland freezers came on to the southern
markets with chilled beef, and they have been
able to hold much of the business won. Yet
another factor which helped the figures along
was the high prices obtained for hides and a
firm tallow market.
To what extent, if any, conditions are
likely to improve is difficult to say. The
recent rains over most of the northern State
have brightened prospects for the current
year at the producing end. but here it must
be remembered that the Argentine still has
great and manifold advantages, and future
earnings will largely depend upon the course
of events in the co.’s export markets.
Over the last decade one trouble has been
heaped upon another for the local freezer:
on top of drought, high prices for stock and
labor conditions pushed up costs to a level
at which export became unprofitable, and
shareholders have averaged only 1.5 p.c. since
1918. About seven years ago conditions in
the industry became so desperate that most
of the works talked about shutting up shop
altogether. Then the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment came to the rescue and granted a
small subsidy on exports, payment of which
continued until 1925. For the seven vears
since 1920 the co.’s trading results have'been
a net loss of £17,066, and since two modest
dividends have been paid £76,014 of reserves
have disappeared, leaving the visible accumu-
lation at £55,438 at Nov. 30 last.
However, only once since 1923 has the co.
registered a loss. Moreover, it is well
equipped to take advantage of any improve-
ment in market conditions. That and the
year’s brisker trading are reflected in the
next comparison of balance-sheet figures;—
1923. 1925. 1927. 1928.
Creditors ..£119,806 £78,653 £29,909 £29,757
Property, plant,
livestock and
shares in other
cos. .. 425,798 425,023 466,262 448 798
Stock.. .. 85,557 109,696 86,885 38|405
Stores .. 45,865 34,449 29,191 27 209
Debtors & cash 270,688 245,500 156,575 258,508
At Nov. 30 last the more or less liquid sur-
plus. including stocks and stores, was
£294,365, but payment of the div. will reduce
the figure to £261,616, and that is £18,674
more than it was at the previous balance.
Much, of course, depends upon whether allow-
ances for depreciation, etc., prove to be
adeouate. But owing to the grouping of live-
stock and shares in other cos. with fixed
assets —tne lot uowu £1i,464 during the year
—no reliable indication of what has been
done in this way is to be gathered from the
figures.
The market, which takes a slightly more
hopeful view of the future, now pays 10s
as against 7s. 6d. a year ago for the' pound
shares. These have a net tangible backing
of 21s. Sd., of which approximately Ss. is
surplus liquids; the balance is mostly repre-
sented by factories, etc., worth what they can
earn.
Motor Credits, Ltd.
Towards
, Dividends Re-
Dec., Profits. Pref. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
Preliminary exes., etc. .. .. 14 (544
1925.. 1980 9 p.c. 9 p.c. = 1875 105 14*509
Added prelim, exes., £14,369 .. 28 878
1926.. 6834 Nil Nil 6834 22^044
Added prelim, exes., £5171 . . 27 215
Pref.
9 p.c. Ol d.
1927.. 9293 3384* 6 p.c. = 6966 —. 28 272
1928.. 1262 Nil Nil 1262 27,010
*Two years.
Like many others in the hire-purchase finance
section of the motor trade, this co. has found
that the business has not proved nearly so
profitable as prospectus forecasts pictured
that it would be. During the boom in the
industry a few years ago the field became
overcrowded. In the slump which followed
competition became acute, and in order to
keep their funds fully employed some of
the finance cos. accepted paper that later
was found not to be worth 20s. in the pound.
This was largely a consequence of the exten-
sion of facilities to buy recklessly, and thus
incur crushing obligations. What was dis-
counted was largely mortgages on future in-
comes, incurred in many instances in order
to buy wasting and non-productive luxury
assets.
As far as this co. is concerned, one result
has been a much heavier crop of bad debts
and r:possessions than had been counted
upon. Owing to the risks, the board decided
a couple of years ago that shareholders would
be likely to lose less of their capital if it was
withdrawn from the t.-p. business altogether
and placed in more stable securities.
The co. set up in Melbourne in Nov., 1924.
Capital had to be coaxed, and at the end
of the first 14 months the amount paid up
was £49,541. For that period the board
claimed as profit £l9BO, and dressed the
window by distributing all but £lO5 of it
in an all-round 9 p.c. div.
Still, capital remained shy and very expen-
sive to get. Results for the second term were
disappointing, and no divs. were paid. In
the next year, ended Dec. Si, 1927, earnings
(£21.409, equal to 12.7 p.c. of debtors’ bal-
ances) improved £10.354, but exes. (£12,116)
including an unspecified amount of bad d bts
written off, wore £7896 heavier, thus leaving
the net result (£9293) only £2459 better
than the previous year’s figure. Moreover.
£34.154, or 22.6 p.c. of the £150.889 of paid
capital, had been eaten up in share-selling
and preliminary exes., and only £6939 of it
had been replaced out of surplus earnings.
Notwithstanding all this, the board, after
satisfying the pref. requirements (two years’
divs.), lavishly handed out the balance of the
year’s net earnings (£5909) and £1057 be-
sides in a 6-p.c. distribution to the ords.;
thus unnecessarily adding to the co.’s burden
by heaping up the pile of froth to £28,272.
Last year, owing to the liquidation of t.-p.
debts and the reinvestment of the-money in
lower interest-bearing securities, earnings
(£12.019) fell away £9390, being 8.9 p.c. on
the investments. But since the bad-debts
question remained acute, the cut in exes.
(£10.757) was only £1359; hence the net
result was cut to a shadow, and both classes
of shareholders went hungry.
What is being done to change the character
of the business is obvious from this compari-
son of balanced-sheet figures :
_ . 1925. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital ~ £49,541 £122,028 £150,889 £154,078
Overdraft .. 810 29,197 21,843
Other liabilities 1,473 697 1,017 592
Mortgages _ _ 18 ,100
Sundry debtors 42,873 140,149 167,670 106 646
Furniture, etc. 413 476 686
Repossessions .. 2 587
Cash, etc. .. 100 332 2 ll’(315
During the year book debts, mostly bills,
have been worked down £61,024. The money
thus released and £3189 of new capital that
came m enabled the board to wipe out the
overdraft (£21,842 at the previous balance)
and put out £lB,lOO on mortgage. Also
there was £lO,OOO on fixed deposit awaiting
more profitable employment.
The current year’s results will largely de-
pend upon the soundness or otherwise of'book
debts, of which £93,318 were bills. When
the position in that respect is cleaned up
find exes, got in hand, there is £27,010 of
intangibles calling for reduction. The busi-
ness will require very careful nursing and
able management before the position becomes
attractive for the ords.
The 12,794 £5 profs, called to £2 10s. each
carry a cumulative 9 p.c. (£2878 p.a.),
advance with the ords. to 12 p.e., and have
priority as to capital. At Dec. 31 the net
tangible backing was £3 19s. per £1 of
prei. capital paid up, which had the further
protection of £3 18s. lid. of uncalled ordi-
nary capital. The net tangible backing for
each £1 of paid ordinary capital was 15s.
lid. There are 50.489 £5 ords. called to
£2 10s. each. Neither class of scrip is listed.
Hackshalls, Ltd. (Sydney).
Net To Re- Nominal
Dec., Profit. Dividend. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 15.590 lOp.c. = 7,647 7943 10,072
Transferred to capital, £12,000 7 q 013
1926.. 17,241 121 p.C. = 12.100 5141 )
1927.. 15,722 12* „ „ 12,500 3222 6,435
1928.. 25,748 121 „ ~ 16,146 9602 16,037
This Sydney co. is in the cake- and biscuit-
making business; it owns all but a handful
of the £30,000 of paid capital in Hardman
Bros., Ltd., another biscuit manufacturing
concern, and lias substantial subsidiary
interests besides. Early in the last term two
new share issues of £25,000 each were made,
thus advancing paid capital to £150,000 at
Dec. 31. The new money was wanted partly
to enable the co. to add bread-making to its
other activities. And all round the business
appears to be doing particularly well, though
its accounts tell very little about the major
portion of its interests. Last year’s net
earnings sprang £10.026, mounting to 19.9
p.c. on average capital compared with 15.7,
17.8 and 20 p.c. back to 1925. so the 124
p.c. to shareholders was repeated with ease.
It called for less than two-tliirds of the pro-
fit.
It is only during the last few years that
the co. began to plunge forward. It first
set up in 1912, and plodded along in a small
way until 1925, having in that time accu-
mulated a paid capital of £60,000. Then a
par issue of 28,000 £1 shares raised the
total to £BB,OOO, and early in the following
year (1926) the scrip was listed. It promptly
went to a premium on the market following
a one-in-seyen bonus issue; and the lifting
of the div. from 10 p.c. to 124 p.c. and suc-
cessive new share issues have kept the price
up.
Since the close of last accounts share-
holders have been offered 75.000 new £1
shares, one for two, at par. Thus the pur-
chaser of, say, 70 shares at 255. each prior
to the 1926 bonus issue, who has taken up
his full proportion of each subsequent new
issue, has increased his holding to 180 shares
at a total cost of £lB7 10s. That makes the
124 p.c. div. worth 12 p.c., "hud at the
current market price (about 335. 3d.) the
value of his holding is £299 ss.
The last lot of new money is wanted to
provide for further extensions of the co.’s
operations, but in what direction is not
stated. When it is all in—the final payment
was due at the end of last month—paid
capital will be £225,000, on which a 124
p.c. div. will amount to £28.125, or only
£2377 more than was netted last year. There
is not much of a prop for capital in the
co.’s own reserves, £16.037 at Dec. 31, which
are subject to an unspecified amount for
goodwill, formulas and trade-marks. These
intangibles are lumped in one untidy entry
with land, buildings and investments at
£145,870, up £55,002 during the year. No
less than £61,775 has been added to the
book value of this blanket item since 1925,
and over the same period shareholders have
put up £62,000 of new capital, most of which
apparently has gone into investments. Over
the nature and quality of these the board
has drawn a curtain ; all that can be said for
certain is that they appear to be remarkably
good profit-earners.
Here is the position as far as balance-sheet
figures disclose it:—
1925. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital . . £BB,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £150,000
Liabilities . . 1,032 736 1,166 21,370
Land, buildings,
i n v estments,
T „ etc 84,095 89,408 90,868 145,870
Plant, etc. .. 1,534 1,716 1,530 10,394
Stocks .. .. 2,217 2,968 2,381 10,149
Book debts .. 7,210 3,947 3,571 13,345
Cash, etc. .. 7,311 10,577 11,834 11,737
In addition to the year’s outlay on invest-
ments, etc., £BS64 was added to the book
value of plant, £7768 to stocks and £9774
to book debts, so besides the new capital
gathered during the term the board had to
go to its bankers for £16,724. Still, things
were comfortable enough ; the more or less
liquid surplus (£13,861) was only £2759
lighter than at the previous balance.
The market, which has to back the man-
agement, paid 345. for the scrip in December.
Then, doubtful whether the new capital could
be made to earn at the same rate as the old
it shortened its offer to 30s. following the
announcement of the new issue. But since
the accounts were published the price has
strengthened to buyers, 335. 3d. ; sellers,
335. 6d. . At the higher figure the return
is approximately 74 p.c. on a 124 p.c div
basis. The backing amounts to 21s 5d in
net assets, including intangibles. As to the
future, all that can be said definitely is that
the directors view it with confidence


FARMERS!
SHIRE
ENGINEERS!
CONTRACTORS!
Pfl.
Iff
lt' l||l|,
l==J
m
Jt
55
©
<l>
@,3
■»
<&>
-s>
'S'S
c^->
3^
i M;
‘&1&
*&Tk.
©
s>
cso
•3*7
WP«
etter
auicker
1 cheaper
TRACTORS
Add to Your WorKing Days
We extend a cordial invitation to you to visit our
STAND, No. 129, SUTTOR AVENUE, ROYAL
EASTER SHOW, where the following machines
will be exhibited:—
F
CATERPILLAR TRACTORS
SUPER-SENTINEL
STEAM WAGGONS
And AUSTRAUAI^LMADE
SPEARWELL POWER GRADERS
WILLIAM ADAMS ADJUSTABLE
LEANING WHEEL ROAD GRADERS
KILLEFER ROAD TOOLS
HUNNINGS PATENT ROAD
AND TANK PLOUGHS
ƑGF
WILLIAM ADAMS € COMPANY
LIMI TED—/
175 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches in Newcastle and All States.


Are Your Invest-
ments ROCKY?
MORE THAN HALF
OF ALL REGISTERED
COMPANIES FAIL.
<r
ONLY THE EXPERT
CAN READ THE SIGNS
Australia's leading ex-
pert is
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
MARCH NUMBER NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or "Bulletin” Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock -f- OF 4- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. — Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe is rust- and corrosion-proof. It
cannot foul internally and actually increases in
efficiency when in regular use. It is much lighter
than metal pipe, and can be freighted, transported
and installed with far greater economy and facility.
It costs practically nothing to maintain, and is
practically indestructible. Send for free, profusely
illustrated catalogue, with comparative data. The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road
(near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at
Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
IV. Soren Jensen, Mining Engineer, Assoc. 1.M.M.,
London, M.A.1.M.E., A.C.T.S.M., etc., 33 Boyle
Street, Cremorne, Sydney. Box 220 D., G.P.0.,
Sydney. ’Phone, BWIIO6.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hasssel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castiereagb
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colmson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.'
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree.— Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MaDE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over ■ the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
m
i
®
[PREPARED 1
Guaranteed by the manufacturers to
go further, last longer and uniformly
give better results than any other
paint made.—“B.P.”
"KEEPS ON KEEPING ON/"
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
is
y
p boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
Ƒ
Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents, 26 30 Clarence St., Sydney
Recognise Your Duty and Appoint a Reliable Executor
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED
(The Pioneer Trustee Company of Australia )
412 Collins Street, Melbourne,
is specially qualified to act as your Executor and Trustee.
Its experience of over 50 years is ample assurance that it will manage your affairs to the best
advantage. Unlike an individual the Company is permanent, and its Capital and Assets axe
available for the protection of Clients’ interests.
DIRECTORS: Sir John Grice (Chairman), Sir J. H. MacFarland, M.A., LL.D. (Vice-Chairman),
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, Alexander Stewart, J. Fordyee.
Empowered by Special Acts of Parliament to operate in the States
of New South Wales and Victoria.
CHAS. R. SMTBERT. General Manager V, G. WATSON, Manager.
Hydraulic Power and Lifts (Syd.).
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £
1918.. 11,129 6 p.c. = 6750 4379 33.936
1919.. 10,698 6 „ „ 6750 3948 37,904
Profit from sale of assets .. 4183 42,087
1920.. 10,504 74 p.c. = 8438 2066 44,103
1921.. 11,854 74,, „ 8470 3384 47,537
1922.. 11,905 7| „ „ 9298 2607 50,144
1923.. 10,415 8 ~ ~ 9600 815 50,959
1924.. 9,492 7 ~ „ 8400 1092 52,051
1925.. 9,623 74,, „ 9000 623 52,674
1926.. 9,864 8 „ „ 9600 264 52,938
1927.. 11,749 8 „ „ 9600 2149 55,087
1928.. 10,365 8 „ „ 9600 765 55,852
It was the Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic
Power Co. for 36 years; then, in 1925, the
supply and installation of electric lifts was
added to the co.’s other activities and the
name changed to Hydraulic Power,
Electric and Hydraulic Lifts, Ltd. For
20 years or so before that the electric was
steadily pushing the hydraulic passenger lift
further into the background. Hence since
1908, when the last of the 10 p.c. divs. was
paid, shareholders have averaged only 7.-1
p.c. The new electric department, in which
sphere, by the way. competition is very keen,
was expected to stiffen profits and thus
enable the board to give shareholders at least
Though that rate has been paid for the last
three terms, the movements in last year's
figures suggest that it is by no means safe.
One difficulty has been to prevent exes, out-
pacing the advance in revenue. During the
last five years the co. apparently has been
able to win a fair share of the business offer-
ing, revenue having increased by annual steps
from £41,158 in 1920 to £61,994 for the 12
months to Dec. 31 last: —
Ex- Ex-
Revenue. peases. Revenue, penses.
1895. . £20,950 £14,399 1924. . £41,158 £30,666
1905.. 23,902 10,562 1925.. 42,715 31,592
1915.. 24,074 13,898 1926.. 47,279 35,915
1920.. 36,441 25,088 1927.. 56,986 43,237
1923.. 43,791 31,876 1928.. 61,994 49,429
But owing to the extra cost of securing and
managing the bigger income the co. has not
got much benefit out of the brisker trading.
Last year exes., apart from £2200 set
aside for taxation, consumed 79.7 p.c. of
the gross profit as against 74.2 p.c. and 75.9
p.c. in the two preceding years. Thus the
net result receded to 8.6 p.c. on the £120,000
of paid capital compared with 9.8, 8.3, 8,
7.8 and 8.6 p.c. back to 1923. There is
nothing attractive in those showings con-
sidering that there were net tangible assets
with a book value of 255. 4d., of which only
2s. 2d. was surplus liquids, to earn profits
for each 20s. of paid capital when the books
were last ruled off. The whole position is
largely governed by the outlay on repairs and
maintenance, which must be hefty items these
days.
There was no change of any importance in
balance-sheet figures. The more or less liquid
surplus, including stocks (£11,179), im-
proved slightly, but was still £2134 less than
it was five years ago:—
1923. 1925. 1927. 1928.
More or less liquid
assets (inc. stock) £28,745 £27,188 £29,243 £31,482
Liabilities.. .. 13,125 13,699 16,270 17,996
Surplus . . £15,620 £13,489 £12,973 £13,486
The final div. (£4800) and provision for
taxation will reduce that surplus to £6486.
At Dec. 31 plant, mains and expenses of
installation figured at £133,021 (cost), up
£199 during the year. To freeholds and a
trifle of leasehold £254 was added, making
the item £36,346. Rights, not treated as an
asset above, remain unaltered at £15,000.
Their chief value lay in the hope which once
existed that the City Council might use its
authority to buy the undertaking at stated
intervals —two have passed and the third ter-
minates this year.
On the market buyers offer 17s. 6d. and
sellers ask 20s. for the pound shares. At the
middle price the return is 84 p.c. on an 8
p.c. div. basis.
F. W. Draper, Russo-A.<fiatic’s chief
engineer, is to supervise constructional work
at Mt. Isa. The milling plant, which is to
have an initial capacity of 1500 tons per day,
later increasing to 2000 tons daily, is expected
to be in operation early in 1930. Also a
smelter, with sintening plant and blast fur-
naces, is to be installed. With lead at
£2O a profit of 30s. per ton of crudes is
counted upon. Ore reserves at Nov. 29
last were estimated at 21,200,000 tons.
These include carbonates, 3,500,000 tons,
assaying 9 p.c. lead and 3.60 z. silver; sul-
phides. assured to 750 ft., 12,200,000 tons,
assaying 6.1 p.c. lead, 8.2 p.c. zinc and
3.70 z. silver. The sulphides are expected
to be increased by a further 5,000,000 tons
of about the same assay, and by 500,000
of much higher assay. Power for mines,
mills and smelter is to be supplied from a
central power 'station, for which two 5000
k.w. turbo-steam sets, with boilers adapted
for coal-dust firing, have been ordered. The
railway is expected to be through to the
mine next month.
* * * *
The National Mining Corporation, Ltd.,
which took over the old Lake George mine
at Captain’s Flat (N.S.W.) a couple of
years ago, is installing a pilot plant with
a capacity of about 1000 tons per month.
A larger plant of 15,000 tons monthly capa-
city is being designed. Meanwhile efforts
are being made to induce the Government
to build a 26-mile railway from the mine
to Bungendore.
It is estintated that the cost of road trans-
port on 10,000 tons monthly
would run the co. into an extra £25,000 p.a.
Field costs were figured at 80s. per ton of
crude ore raised. Conditions at Lake George,
it is estimated, give an advantage of more
than 20 p.c. over those prevailing at Broken
Hill. The lode has been proved for a length
of over 4000 ft., and has been prospected by
diamond drill to a depth exceeding 700 ft.
from the surface. The width ranges from
a few up to 40ft. Sulphides of lead and
zinc, with zinc predominant, are the prin-
cipal ore minerals. And copper, for which
the mine was originally worked, and silver
and gold are present also.
* * * *
Dr. H. I. Jensen writes: “Alastor” (B.
20/2/’2!>) does not quote me right when he
says that “on Stewart’s permit what Dr.
Jensen believes to be a ‘paystreak’ of crude
oil has been met with.” I have never said
anything of the kind. On Stewart’s permit
from 1200 ft. to 1400 ft. every sample shows
by chemical tests the presence of oil in
greater or smaller traces in the strata.
Although the impervious shaly strata between
these levels cannot yield a “paystreak,” it has
been decided to cement off water, since there
is a possibility that the next porous beds
entered may yield flowing oil. This is quite
different from “Alastor’s” interpretation of
my remarks.
>i< * * *
South Australian Oil Wells, which aban-
doned two holes at Nelson (Vic.) during the
last 12 months, proposes to uses its percus-
sion plant to drill 2£ miles north of the
Government No. 3 bore at Lakes Entrance.
It has also had a geological survey made
on two prospecting permits at Dulacca (Q.),
about 60 miles east of Roma. The co. closed
its last year with £l5OO in the bank and a
deficit of £29,500 in the p. and 1. account.
* * * *
Central New Guinea G. M. Co. has been
launched in Sydney with a nominal capital
of £20,000 in 160,000 shares of 2s. 6d. each.
Of these 24,000 paids go to the prospectors
when they have acquired a mining area for
the co. The promoter takes 18,000 paids;
80,000 shares are offered at 3d. a nibble and
the balance (38,000 shares) is in pickle. The
idea is to prospect areas, the location of
which is undisclosed, in Central New
Guinea. The prospectors, Messrs R. S. and
L. T. Haynes, state that they found auriferous
belts whilst on the hunt for oil there. They
say: “We would have exceeded our instruc-
tions had we made a thorough investigation
of the areas which we found to be aurifer-
ous,” adding that “further prospecting of this
area will be necessary before an estimate
can be given as to the value per cubic yard.”
What needs to be remembered is that there
are more blanks than prizes in gold-mining
ventures. Until something more definite in
the way of worth-while information concern-
ing this show is forthcoming the speculator’s
risk can hardly be called a reasonable one.
$ * $ *
One of the reports of the past week in min-
ing circles was that Edie Goldfields. Ltd., has
bought up the interests of New Guinea Gold
and Exploration. The latter is the co. whose
affairs have been so inextricably mixed with
those of New Guinea Gold and Osmiridium,
which “Hoppy” Clark went to London to
float, that even the promoters of the two
concerns seem to be at their wits’ end to dis-
entangle them. If either show is producing
any gold whatever it is keeping the fact very
dark. Edie Goldfields is said to be a co. with
a capital running into millions, and N. G. G.
and Exploration shareholders are getting £5OO
in cash and 11,500 £1 paids—one for five —
for their leases. The directors state that the
working of these leases would have entailed
more capital than the original co. had, or was
likely to secure. The paids (2s. 6d.) are
quoted around 3s. on the market.
* * * *
Leslie Urquhart, chairman of Ellyou Gold-
fields., Ltd., which holds extensive areas in
New Guinea, recently said that the final
operating co., shortly to be formed to work
the : properties, will probably need a capital
much in excess of the three millions at first
estimated. Ellyou itself is looking after the
exploration and development part of the job.
The building of a railway line, including
bridges, from the coast to the mountain fields
will be one of the biggest and most expen-
sive of the jobs that the co. has to face.
* * * *
At Aberfoyle Tin, Storey’s Creek (Tas.),
the mining policy has been to drive an adit
920 ft. to cut the downward continuation of
the ore bodies proved in the vertical shaft
so as to give 200 ft. of backs. W. E. Hitch-
cock, the superintendent, estimated that the
work would cost £5250 at £5 a foot. The
adit is in 255 ft., and it will take about
20 weeks to reach the objective. The cosc
to date has been £5 11s. 2d. a foot.
“Kiwi”: Production on Tasmania’s osmiri-
dium field (Adams River) is reported to
total only £175,000 since its discovery. Per-
haps it would be safe to estimate that the
figure represents half the total output. There
was the usual slump when the Government
stepped in with plans for the restriction of
sale of the metal by the formation of a pool.
One result was that large quantities of the
metal were sold by diggers to illicit buyers.
As the buyers were paying from £lB down
to as low as £l2 per ounce, and the present
price is £2S per ounce, they have reason to
be satisfied with the business.
* * * *
“Salambo”: Plans for the development of
a coal briquette industry in the. Hamilton
district, Maoriland, are under consideration.
Major H. L. Armstrong, representing English
interests, has arrived to report on the pro-
spects. Local interests claim that the low-
grade lignite coal is suitable for pulverising
and converting into high-grade smokeless coal-
bricks. Coal-tar pitch is used as a binder,
and bricks composed of 50 p.c. slack and pitch
are said to burn beautifully and to be free
from sparking. In Germany the whole fuel
question, especially in regard to former waste
material, has been thoroughly revolutionised,
with immense economic benefit to the country.
* *
Unless shareholders object, which isn’t
likely, Lake View and Star Co is to acquire
the Golden Horseshoe mine, stores, machinery
and plant for 900,000 fully-paid 4/- shares.
Horseshoe retains tailings, with the right to
treat and take any of its present plant or
stores required for that purpose until Dec
31 next. Geologist Dr. Maclaren says that
the future of the Chaffers lease, the best of
Lake View’s holdings, lies in the prolongation
downward and southward of the Great
Boulder-Horseshoe shoots, which are found
in Chaffers at depth. The exploration sug-
gested by Maclaren is restricted to their de-
velopment. In Boulder and Horseshoe these
shoots have produced £30,000,000 worth of
gold, and Maclaren considers that prospects
in Chaffers are excellent.
*** • *
A. H. Collier, chairman of Hake View and
a director of Gt. Boulder and Wiluna, is now
in the West having a look around before
returning to London. The Mararoa Co.’s
mine at Reedy’s Find, on which 11. E. Vail
holds an option on behalf of a London group,
is mentioned as one of the things that will
claim Collier’s attention.
* * * *
Deep sinking in South Kalgurli (W.A.)
seems likely to prove unprofitable on account
of schist appearing in the bottom work-
ings. Hence the recent arrangement with
North Kalgurli, Ltd., to work the Croesus
Proprietary mine on a royalty basis. Hopes
are that a good deal of payable stuff will be
got there. There was some talk of South
Kalgurli acquiring the Sand Queen, at Comet
Vale, but negotiations thus far have not got
beyond the conversation stage.
* =!= >!= *
Melbourne-controlled Waterloo Gold Min-
ing Co. is asking the public for £lO,OOO to
further develop its hitherto unprofitable show
beyond Meekatharra (W.A.). Prospects are
reported to be satisfactory, and the board is
sending a Victorian expert to see if they are.
* :|= * *
Adelaide still awaits the Westonia (W.A.)
boom. McCahons has probably shown the
best that can be expected from it, and share-
holders complain of the absence of progress
reports. The pups adjoining McCahons are
not performing well, whereas the Les Trois,
two miles off, has promising prospects, but
development is slow.
* * * *
Even with Government assistance the well-
managed Sons of Gwalia cannot make ends
meet. For January 13.630 tons were treated
at a loss. If the grade of ore could be in-
creased ldwt. per ton, the mine, in addition
to being a show-place, might be on the list
of W.A. div.-payers again.
* * * *
Westralian Manganese Co.’s luck is still
out. Its first handicap was finance, its
second delay in building a line from Meeka-
tharra to its deposits, and now it has to
mark time, probably for a couple of years,
until the State Government provide hand-
ling facilities at Geraldton. At present, the
price for manganese is easing and the supply
increasing.
* * * *
Austral Malay’s group of four working
mines promises soon to be increased. At
Puchong the installation of heavy machinery
is in hand. Pungah, another of the new
subsidiaries, is also busy on dredge erection,
and the old Ivampong Kamunting dredge is
now going up on the new’ area at Karangan.
Of the working mines, Ivampong’s No. 2
dredge turned over 31,000 yards for 22 tons
last month. The average dropped from
1.901 b. to 1.591 b. to the yard. Costs were
12.6 d the high side. Asam also fell off
a trifle, 17 tons coming from 119,000 yards,
an average of ,321 b. as against .341 b. from
a larger yardage in January. Costs w’ere
kept down to 3.6. to the yard. Ulu Yam
was temporarily hung up for boiler repairs,
but dug 50,000 yards for 21 tons of t. 0.;
an average of ,941 b. ns against January’s
.(>2lb. Costs, owing to the lost time, w’ere
8.5(1. Thabawleik, also on the casualty list
for 110 hours, dug 01,000 yards for 39 tons
of oxide, the average being 1.431 b., an im-
provement on the previous month’s figures.
Here again costs were high at 12.6 d.
* * >i= *
The Japs are said to again have their
eyes on Yampi iron deposits (W.A). Last
year they professed to be willing to sign con-
tracts to take large quantities annually, but
could not be induced to give guarantees
that they would take supplies for a definite
period. Since then they have done business
in Maoriland arid have been looking for
more in China.


TO INVESTORS
With Larg'e or Small Amounts
The Merron Estate Ltd.
FINANCIERS
Established 1917
Authorised Capital £50,000
The Merron Estate, Ltd., will Accept Moneys for Deposit from £5 upwards
at the following rates of interest, payable quarterly.
3 to 6 Months
12 Months - -
24 Months - -
7 per cent.
10 per cent.
12i per cent.
APPLY THE SECRETARY
THE MERRON ESTATE LTD.
LONDON BANK CHAMBERS, 18 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Vi)
m
m
m
wwm
m
mm i
i t
m
w s.y
4
m
ifi
mi
m i
1 u
i m
'%
i .i
14
,*VV?
ilf'f
a-’;
iiß
1
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
1»
I
$cM
m
H
■ms
ff*HW
(To be Registered.)
CAPITAL: £160,000. Divided into 1,280,000 Shares of 2/6 each.
1,000,000 Ordinary shares of 2/6 each are now being offered
for public subscription, payable in full on applica-
cation.
136,000 Ordinary Shares of 2/6 each fully paid up are to
be issued to the vendors as payment for valuable
petroleum permit.
144,000 Shares of 2/6 are to be held in reserve for future
issues.
1,280,000
DIRECTORS:
ALFRED W. FORD, A.C.C.S. (Eng.), etc., Public Accountant and Secretary, Daking House, Pitt
street, Sydney.
CAPTAIN RICHARD PURDY, Master Mariner, Violet Street, Chatswood.
REGINALD A. McQUEEN, Accountant, Oxford Road, Homebush.
WILLIAM DAISH, M.D., J.P., Medical Practitioner, 151 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
(The other to be appointed at first meeting of Directors.)
SOLICITORS*
Messrs. TURNER, NOLAN & BENDER, Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CONSULTING ENGINEER:
W. F. ROBERTS, A.5.M.8., M.A.1.M.E., Terranora Building, Reiby Place, Sydney.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
A. DAVID SHAW, F.A.8.1. Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
AUDITOR:
(To be appointed.)
BANKERS'
ENGLISH, SCOTTISH AND AUSTRALIAN BANK, LIMITED, Comer Martin
Place and Pitt Street, Sydney.
REPORTS on the Company’s property by Mr. W. F. Roberts, A.5.M.8.,
M.A.1.M.E., Consulting Engineer, are set out in full in the prospectus.
Invest a few pounds now; it may mean independence for you. Some-
thing may happen soon, oil may be discovered, then it will b$ too late.
Cut out and post this
coupon without delay
or obligations.
■o° -xN ,\P <M*
jy & .•• ..•
tp\t>' Jr “
.-•>•>.••>->
<J .*s. v *, 45 #
/ //S.r f/?<f


Drive on PI ume
the appoteni
and enjoij th
‘Motor Spirit
benefits of
COMPRESSION
GF
. .f, ill (hi
ike »«
tion * Motor Spirit
of “Ts,abilM. to
lacking c h etuico 1
heat- nrciirs i n t" b
cfiaTi il shortly of tei
charge?" 0 f jgnr
Ike insl pi„mes rit
ti° n ‘ Atheunig*! 1 '
lk'°" sh , „„ causae
edt° r "Zable «<
e £, knocks
FG
Th'.sdi^.f n °^uh
e° tr , eCtC »P? ot . e< ” C
P/u" ,f ’ tffihKk com / s r tead-
<“ ureS an f,i % s
•. h h e is %ady fA e jJ^°>
,hro " i t°oke e” ab,i ”?is 3! /«' 1
ffce str tn delink * ts J ojn .
s-'-Hs.S'rsS
v-rszrttff.:,
sar*
**From the Latin: ad (ap), meaning
added to; and potens, meaning powerjul.
appotenic possessing increased power;
said of a gas that, being stable to heat and
high compression, will therefore neither
audibly nor silently “knock” in a high
compression engine.
HIGH compression means greater propulsive
power provided only that ignition and com-
bustion of the charge take place correctly.
The efficiency of some motor spirits is reduced
through their inability to resist the disruptive
influences of the terrific heat developed by high
compression.
These influences cause motor spirits unstable to
heat to spontaneously ignite in uncontrolled
combustion: (See the smaller illustration.)
Violent expansion follows, springing the cyl-
inder walls, and causing that high-pitched
“ping” known to motorists as fuel knock,
with consequent loss of power.
Both you and your car will get the full bene-
fit of high compression if you drive on Plume
the appotenic Motor Spirit. The appotenic
quality powerfully resists the action of heat,
and works in perfect power-partnership
with high compression engines. (See cor-
rect combustion illustration.)
High compression and appotenic Plume
mean more power, greater flexibility, less
gear-changing, faster acceleration, andless-
ened depreciation because of a gratifying
absence of knocking.
Here’s the surge of power that you
should have for modern, motoring
conditions. A tank full will prove,
every claim.
HOME-
i
fc sp^
F
/ HI C H
'COMPRESSIONS \
POWER- j I
, PARTNER /
The
appojteiMc
%
The appotenic Motor Spirit.j*
r,
=''M,
**4
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.


KpL-Ratioi}
T Dog food
Supreme
n
-L
A perfectly balanced meat ration; keeps
all breeds of dogs in perfect condition.
Composed of clean, wholesome red meat,
oatmeal, fresh onions and cod liver
oil in exactly the right proportions.
FREE Sample Tin sent on request
without charge.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB
P. O. Box 1821, Melbourne
Ken-T -Ration
“STONEWALL'
Ƒ
Write
Desk B for Catalogue.
SHOES for MEN
“STONEWALLV
RIDING BOOT.
B 1 33£. Black Leather.
Light Sewn Soles.
Reinforced Elastic.
m
Heavy Box Calf 21/
Black or Tan Velour Calf . 35/
Welt Soles.
Postage, I\-; Interstate, 1/8.
JACKSON'S U°
STONEWALL' STORES
Cnr Pitt. 6 Goulburn S ts Sydney
tf/ACI
The Sign of
QUALITY
The Wunderlich Trademark is
a sign of quality it is your
guarantee of sterling value in
the following materials :
Art Metal Ceilings, Terra Cotta
Roofing Tiles, Asbestos Cement
(Durabestos) Building Sheets.
Look for the trademark on these
products, when you purchase.
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Jayhurst” : It happened at the saleyards,
Midland Junction (W.A.).- Some of the stock
agents’ men were loading cattle into the
cattle trucks when a rather aggressive guard,
new to the stock special, came along. “I’m
not going to lift these trucks,” he declared ;
“the cattle are over-crowded.” Then ensued
a heated few minutes, until the man in
charge of the loading happened to notice one
of the wholesale butchers standing on the
HE KNEW HE WASN’T QUITE FIT.
KIND CAPTAIN : “Come on, brother, join us—you can’t go back to your ship in that
state!”
HOPEFUL TAR: “Qui’ ri’, ol’ (hie) shap, qui’ ri’. But I know zhwere I can get anozher li’l
drink, and zhen I’ll be jusht right.”
overhead bridge, quietly enjoying the wordy
warfare. Looking up quickly, he called,
"S.P.C.A., these trucks are all in order,
aren’t they?” The old butcher nodded. The
guard shunted the trucks out without another
word.
“Yarri”: Old Peter Hardy had followed
boundary-riding for 20 years, living mostly
in a tent on a lonely part of the sheep walk.
But solitude was Heaven to Peter. For all
that, he wasn’t a silent person; he talked
to himself as he rode along, and when his
day’s w r ork was done he had spirited argu-
ments at the fireside, usually with a one-
eyed dog, who grinned and wagged his tail.
One evening some musterers unsaddled for
the night. They opened out to talk some
cheerfulness into the dull surroundings.
Peter proceeded quietly with his camp
duties as if they weren’t there. After tea
he took his accustomed seat by the fire, but
when the chin music of the visitors was at
its height, he left abruptly. “So much jab-
berin’ goin’ on here,” he mumbled in disgust,
“a man can’t have a word with himself
at all.”
* * * *
“Rob Roy”: Billy Trezise, a “praacher”
of the old Bendigo mining days, was not
often stumped for an explanation, though
some of his shots went a bit wide of the
mark. One Sunday at the close of the ser-
vice he remarked, “And naow, bredren,
we’m to have with us next Sunday that
great praacher, Silas I’olglaze, 8.A., M.A.’’
After the service Jack Tregurza sought en-
lightenment. “What do they letters stand
for?” he asked. Billy didn’t know, but he
came at it gamely. “What, boay, don’t ’ee
know what they letters mean? Why, ‘Born
again’ and ‘Made anew,’ av course 1”
* # * *
“Gustave”: An abo. legend runs that Rott-
nest Island (W.A.) was once attached to the
mainland, and was the territory of a peaceful
tribe, who were industrious and prosperous.
The lakes were then fresh water and teemed
with fish of all kinds, whilst kangaroos
abounded. The prosperity of the tribe aroused
the cupidity of neighbors, who raided
the peaceful abos. when they wei a
gorged and sleeping after a feast. The
raiders killed nearly all the sleepers,
and took possession of the territory
The king of the defeated tribe, escap-
ing, summoned “boolyas” and made
them lay a curse on the invaders, to
the effect that their lakes would dry
up and their food be taken away. In
later years a pestilence broke out
amongst the conquerors, and nearly
all died. Subsequently drought dried up
the lakes, and all the game left the
land. Then the peninsula became on
island. Now the kangaroos that remain
have shrunk to the size of kangaroo-
rats, and no fish can live in the lakes.
“0. W. Waireki”: Hori, our roadman,
often visits me to obtain “a trink of water,”
to which I sometimes add a dash of Scotch.
T’other broiling hot day he informed me
that he had walked three miles for his
drink. “Why didn’t you call at Mc-
Mutton’s?” I asked. “H'e has a fine spring
there.” “No kood.” declared Hori. “Te
water too tam dry there.”
¥
“C.W.”: We were talking about snakes.
“All rot,” said Bill when someone said snake
country was no good to him. “You can get
used to anything. When I was camping in
the Queensland bush the bloke that put
the light out was turning in. ‘ ’Ullo,’ ’e ses,
‘there’s a naughty snake under my nice
little blanket. I’ll kill the silly little cow
in the morning if ’e don’t clear out.’ ”
* * * *
“Dai R.”: The most pitiable bush acci-
dent I’ve seen happened to an old Swede —
a ship’s runaway who’d nevor been in the
bush before. I was bringing a mob of sheep
from Angledool to Walgett (N.S.W.), and
picked this bird up at Lightning Ridge in
place of a man who’d consorted too long
HE DID HIS BEST.
“You ARE a bad boy to be flying your kite on the Sabbath!”
“Don’t do your block, Missus. It’s made out’r th’ WAR CRY."
with the daughter of the vine. It was pitch
dark when we made camp, and after tea
the Scandinavian rolled his blankets out and
joined me at the fire with the remark, “I
haf found a good lump for my pillow.” A
few minutes after we'd all . rolled-in thi
most blood-curdling shrieks smithereened the
welkin, and springing up we saw the Swede
doing a fantastic dance. The “lump” he had
found for a pillow was a soldier-ants’ nest.
The poor old fellow had to be treated at
Walgett hospital for several days, and for
a while it was touch and go with him.
* * * *
“Bellbots”: A little chip of evidence from
the inquest on a 15-year-old Newcastle girl
who died as the result of eating a chocolate
handed to her by a boy friend in a picture-
theatre stirs up memories of other days. A
youthful male witness testified that one of
the lads concerned in the case had referred
to the deceased as his “hag.” That’s larri-
kin jargon of a 50-year-old vintage, and
though I’m pretty democratic in my choice
of society I haven’t heard the horrible syno-
nym for sweetheart used since the early
’nineties. I remember —yes, I was a pushite
—that we used to call food “scran” and beer
“purge,” but I’m afraid the rest of our vocabu-
lary was too Rabelaisian for publication. We
weren’t chivalrous, because we didn’t need
to be. Our girls were more to be dreaded
in a fight than our blokes, because while we
males had some remnants of a fighting code
—very tattered remnants, I’ll admit —Daisy
and Lulu in battle knew no restraints.
* * * *
“Wang”: We were talking about stringy-
bark. “Reminds me,” remarked Larry the
Liar, “of the time me mate Bill wrapped
’imself up in a five-foot sheet of it, the night
we camped where some blokes had been
barkin’. Our tent blew down an’ Bill, who
was always obstinate as a flamin’ mule,
thought he’d done a smart stroke. ‘Snug as
a bug in a rug,’,he sings out. ‘lt’ll shrink
on yer, yer silly ole blighter,’ I sez; but he
just laughed. In the mornin’ he’s curled up
tight with ’is feet stickin’ out from one end
of th’ bark. He’s groanin’, an’ callin’ t’ me
to get him out, ’cos he’s smotherin’. I tries
me hardest; but I can’t shift that bark.
I manages t’ split a bit off th’ top end t*
give Bill a bit of fresh air. Bill ses he ain’t
goin’ t’ stop there on his own, so I upends
him, an’ we starts off fer th’ township. Bill
can just manage t’ shuffle along with me
supportin’ ’im, an’ I sticks a few bits of
branches of leaves on th’ top t’ keep th’ sun
off his head. We’re on’y about a mile from th’
township; but it takes us three hours t’ do
the journey. As we gets nearer we can hear
a band playin’. We strikes tli’ main road
leadin’ t’ th’ township just as th’ band
comes along, leadin’ a procession of decorated
carts an’ men an’ kids all dressed up fancy.
We waddles along with ’em an’ presently
we gets to th’ sports ground, an’ a lotter
blokes with cardboard badges swarm round
us, an’ blow me if they don’t award. Bill th’
first prize, a fiver, for th’ most original cos-
tume, a walkin’ tree!
* * * *
“Venturino”: It was well known to the
teachers that a certain inspector was so
keen on school gardens that a fine horticul-
tural display often meant the difference be-
tween a good and a bad report. The gentle-
man was all smiles when he called to inspect
a tiny bush school and noticed a plot of
flowering plants. The young lady teacher
blushed when he personally complimented
her on the effort. But as he was leaving,
he took another look at the garden;
then stooped suddenly and pulled up one
plant, then another, and then all of them.
He turned to the white-faced teacher for an
explanation. None of the plants had any
roots, the “garden” being composed of flowers
and foliage stuck in the ground the evening
before.
* * # *
“Kooragai”: An old man goanna stalking
his prey is worth watching. He approaches
very cautiously, like a stalking cat. Now
and again he raises his head to take obser-
vations and measure the distance between
himself and the quarry, then crouches down
again and creeps a bit farther. He takes
advantage of any cover on the way, some-
times moving sideways to keep out of sight,
and where he has to cross rustling dry leaves
he seems to walk more than crawl. When
he reckons he has got near enough he makes
a rush that is swift and startling. I
approached within a few yards of a big scamp
one day without being observed, so intent
was he on his prey, a rosella, and when
he caught only a mouthful of feathers his
disappointment and disgust were clearly ex-
pressed by his looks. He blamed me for the
failure, judging by the nasty way he poked
his tongue out at me before scampering off.
(Continued on page 25.)
SO IT SEEMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Faces in the city
Ever changin’ flow,
But ’mid all the thousands
Ne’er a face I know.
Guess I’ll hump me bluey
Jist for company,
Friends are giftin' scarcer—•
So it seems to me.
When a bloke is stony
City ways are wrong :
Nothin’ seems as cheery
As the magpie’s song;
No one speaks as kindly
As a whisperin’ tree,
Nothin’ seems as homely—
So it seems to me.
Jist to lie observin’,
Lettin’ nothin’ pass,
Listenin’ to the crickets
Underneath the grass—•
Merry little pipers
Tuned in sympathy—
Nature’s lmrmonisers,
So it seems to me.
Jist to feel the cool drops
When the gum-trees weep,
Jist to hear the cattle
Moanin’ in their sleep,
See the black swans driftin’
Down the evenin’ sky,
Hear the curlew callin’,
Hear the plover cry.
Guess I’ll hump me bluey
Jist for company;
City blokes ain’t friendly—
So it seems to me.
FEDERAL TERRITORY.
TAL ORDELL.


m
.where the
Strength of
DUNLOP
comes from!
230 of the rubber im-
pregnated cords embodied
in a Dunlop casing will
suspend a sedan car
weighing 35 cwt.
There are approximately 12,000 of
these miniature cotton ropes—each
separately embedded in pure rubber
to prevent friction—built into a 30 B
Dunlop cover; and it is their combined,
strength that so successfully enables
Dunlop covers to withstand, without
weakening or fatigue, the continual
bending and flexing that tyres, when in
use, are subjected to. As the average
sized tyre flexes about 600 times a
mile, or say 6,000,000 times in 10,000
miles running, the need for such great
strength in a casing will be realised.
Every Dunlop tyre made, embodies
this essential strength, and the best
evidence of this is the outstanding big
mileage Dunlop users are obtaining
to-day. No tyre in the world exceeds
the average mileage that Dunlop en-
sures, and no tyre gives greater satis-
faction and such trouble-free service.
5000 GARAGES STOCK DUNLOP 1


Stockmen!
f'Uicfc'typmJcUs
IfwicAcGhJ&Cu/lSi
Homebush Yards, or Enoggera Yards,
Sydney, Brisbane.
Auctions in both markets conducted by stock depart-
ment managers. Cattle, sheep, lambs, pigs and calves
all realise top values at the firm’s sales.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
STOCK SALESMEN, LTD.
Winehcombe House, and 99-101 Eagle Street,
Bridge Street, Sydney, Brisbane.
m
GREYS,
SIZEoTWO
They Satisfy
because they are made from 1 00
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys”
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a “GREYS.”
SILKOJT VIRGINIA
1® for 9cH. CIGARETTES for
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights”
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons. !
i
Peapes is a good place to choose
all articles for men’s or boys’
wear because Peapes concentrate
solely on the needs of men and
their sons, offering consistent
QUALITY, VALUE and SER-
VICE, and maintaining a !
definitely low price standard
unaffected by “sales,” through-
out the year,
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney. j
“Hamer”: The electric fish has added itself
to the troubles of Sydney surfers. Flat
as a plate, almost transparent and only nine
inches across, the creature can easily escape
observation, and quite a number of people
who have come out of the water stinging
with a pins-and-necdles sensation have
claimed that the sea is charged with elec-
tricity. About this time of the year there
is due to return, too, a minute organism
which, swarming in its millions, clings to the
body and causes an almost intolerable smart-
ing. But the hardy surfers who are not
daunted by sharks or “blue-bottles” won’t
be kept out of the breakers by the prospect
of a few stings.
H: * * Jjc
“Mulgo”: Crows and magpies are gen-
erally conspicuous about squattage home-
steads ; the slaughter-yard and branding-
yard attract them, and there are other
pickings about the place. A near-
sighted bloke I picked up on the way used
to ask, when he thought it was time for the
next homestead to be getting near, “See any
crows ahead?” ITe liked crows. Their cries
to him were friendly voices. “When I go up
to a place with the ration bags,” he told
me, “they say, ‘Welcome, welcome!’ ”
After a pause he added, “It’s the only
bloomin’ welcome I get when I’m hard up.”
* * * =l=
“Crotaline”: Outside India, I suppose no
country compares with Australia in the
matter of itinerant “snake-charmers.” The
cities and country districts harbor them in-
discriminately, and every practitioner lias
a certain cure for snakebite which
he claims as his own secret. As a matter
of fact, anyone with a general specific for
snakebite could attain affluence. by disclosing
it —the Government of India, for one,
would make the sage’s fortune. But as
Calmette and Australia’s own Walter and
Eliza Hall Institute, to say nothing of a
dozen other individuals and research organi-
sations, have discovered, a serum whicli
immunises against the venom of all serpents
has yet to be evolved, though there are now
a fair number of reliable anti-venoms for
individual species, including Australia’s
adder and tiger snakes. These latter re-
medies are in constant use by itinerant
showmen. They claim them as their own
concoctions, but when supplies from the
institute run short or the serum is used for
the wrong snake a funeral takes place.
* * * *
“Wandi” : Many Australian birds post a
sentinel while they are feeding or resting.
Shooters find it hard to approach a flock
of gnaroos, or maned geese (commonly called
wood ducks), on inland lagoons. A flock may
be resting on a jutting point of land or a
half-submerged log, with their heads under
their wings, but there is one very alert
member. The white cockatoo is more widely
known for this precautionary habit. A
thousand birds will settle on a crop of ripe
maize, and one will remain in the nearest
tree-top. After a while one of the thieves
will fly up, and the first looker-out drops
down for bis share of the grain. When
the sentinel sounds the alarm the whole
flock instantly rise. Kangaroos keep guard,
too. In a sandy camp all but one will lie
down. The exception may be nibbling about,
but he frequently looks round and listens.
When danger approaches he takes a couple
of short hops, and hits the ground hard with
feet and tail, a signal that stampedes tbe
mob. Even cattle have sentinels. A drover
may travel right across Australia and not
once see all his mob lying down in a night
camp. No matter how hard and long the
day might be, there is always at least one
beast standing up. Among wild cattle the
bull is most frequently the sentinel.
>1« * * *
“Sigs”: One of the queerest of plants is
the octopus fig tree. There’s one a few miles
out of Yeppoon (N.Q.). The seeds are left
in the fork of some other kind of tree,
probably by birds. When the seeds ger-
minate they send out roots that attach them-
selves to the fork, after which two or three
tendril-like roots are dropped to earth and
smaller ones begin to embrace the tree-trunk.
Slowly these grow and strengthen, and
through the suckers that hold them on they
sap their host of its life. As the octopus
tree grows in strength, it extends its roots
to other trees and deals out slow but certain
death to all within reach. The tree near
Yeppoon now operates over an area about
30yds. square.
Jjc * * *
“Black Tracker”: If you are fond of gore
and want to see a fight to a finish at close
quarters, match one of the smaller red
bulldog ants against one of its big black
brethren. When they are at grips, put them
in a tumbler beneath a strong magnifying
glass, and you will need a strong nerve to
see it out. AVhat advantage the black gains
by his size the red makes up with pluck
and activity. Each appears to be intent on
tearing the other to pieces. The nape
of the neck is apparently the vital spot,
judging by the way both fence and dodge
to get a grip. They, however, end by sever-
ing limbs and biting pieces out of one
another’s bodies until one shows more staying
power than the other and is able to give the
coup de grdcc. In three bouts I arranged
the red won twice, but all combatants suc-
cumbed to their wounds the same day.
IN THE LAP OF THE GODS.
LADY (to gin who is nursing very young piccaninny ): “Is that the last, Mary?”
MARY: “Baal me know, Missus.”
“Gouger”: Those who have tried it declare
that dugong oil possesses a pronounced
strengthening property. Those Coral Sea
islanders who are still dependent on the
dugong and turtle for their meat declare
that it is the oil of the dugong that makes
them such hefty men and women. During
a season when dugong arc plentiful the
children especially grow exceptionally fat.
Old Ned Moseby, for many years ruler of
Massig Island, insisted on his sons drinking
a quantity of the oil with every meal so that
they might grow big and strong—and they
did. The coastal abos. relish the oil, and
after a couple of months of the diet they
show a marked change in appearance. The
young gins’ cheeks grow plump and shiny and
their eyes shine brightly. The bucks, to a
noticeable extent, lose their dirty look.
* * * *
“Ironbark”: A mystery that has exercised
the minds of Speck fishermen lias been par-
tially cleared up. For 30 years the Great
Lake, lying in the centre of the island, was
credited with harboring a huge creature
thought by many to be a bunyip. The late
Prof. Smith, of Oxford Uni., referred to it in
his book, and almost every scientific writer
who visited the lake made public reference
to it, but. as the creature was shy descrip-
tions of it were conflicting. Recently a Mel-
bourne angler, while enjoying an evening
stroll, happened to glance down through the
clear water at what appeared to be a huge
log. But the log turned and disclosed the
head of an enormous seal. How t such a
creature could reach an inland lake set in
the midst of mountains is a puzzle that no-
body has yet undertaken to solve.
* * * *
“Pudden”: On the Cooper River in W.Q.
there is a little spider with a yellow belly
and white legs which has an indentation in
the middle of his back. H'e’s a slow-moving
cuss, but he makes up in brains for what he
lacks in agility. In his country, almost all
the year round in any normal season, there
is a little daisy growing. The spider climbs
the stalk of one of these and nips the daisy
from the stem. Then he juggles himself a
bit on top of the amputated trunk. When
lie’s finished there’s the daisy spreading
its petals to the sun as it did before the
spider came. But the new daisy is the
spider, his yellow belly and white legs turned
uppermost. He has squirmed . the stem of
the daisy into the hole in his back, and
there he lies and waits for the meal which
is sure to come to him.
* * * *
“Bill R.”: A curse imported into Aus-
tralia witli loving care was the sweet briar.
About 1839 Charles Reeves Styles brought
from England three cuttings of briar and
planted them on his pioneer settlement at
Iteevesdale, near Bungonia (N.S.W.). Two
died. The third, planted in the stump of a
decaying tree, was watered each day and
took root. Before Styles passed out iti ’72
ho saw hundreds of acres of his splendid
holding so matted with the thorny horror
that a cat couldn’t creep through. The
pest eventually drove his descendants off the
property. Meanwhile, conveyed by birds,
the pest had spread disastrously over other
valuable areas for a radius of hundreds of
miles.
:jc * * ❖
“Wingclla”: The Anglican church at
Darwin (N.T.) is made of stone with a
cypress-pine roof. When it was built one piece
of soft-wood was placed in the roof to bridge
a small gap. The white ants either scented
or saw this tasty dish, and they made tracks
up the walls to get it. As fast as their
tunnels were brushed down, they made
fresh ones, and the trouble continued till
the piece of eatable wood was taken out
and replaced by cypress pine.
sfc * * *
“Bouragi”: The crocodile, cunning enough
in some ways, is always a fool when it comes
to fish-traps. The trap yards so common on
many of the N.Q. estuaries are always regis-
tering a catch, and one not always welcome,
since the brute usually manages to do a lot
of damage before lie is nailed. The big
voluted reed-traps built by the Gulf Papuans
seem to present croc, with a peculiar diffi-
culty. He finds it easy enough to get in and
devour all the fish in the middle of the con-
cern, but when it comes to getting out by
the way he came he invariably does his
block. Then there is trouble when the trap
owner goes to collect his fish breakfast and
finds nothing but a maddened croc- Hne
N.Q. 15-footer provided a variation, and com-
mitted suicide. Fie .jammed his head into a
big drum trap of bamboo which led oft from
the trap. It prevented him with-
drawing his head, and lie was later “round
drowned,” as the police reports say.
* * * *
“Cooramin”: It is claimed that Killy
Supple, of the Macleay Itiver, was the first
man to capture wild cattle by throwing them
by the tail while riding at full gallop
through the bush. In his young days he was
a great horseman and hunter, and captured
hundreds of scrubbers in the rough country
at the head of the Macleay, his reward
being 7s. each for the hides. Hand-throwing
is now a common method of dealing with
wild and refractory beasts in many parts
of N.S.W. and Queensland. The smartest
throwers can cut a beast out from a mob,
throw it by a swing of the tail, then jump
off and hog-tie the hind legs, all inside a
minute. In a competition at Moree, a few
years ago, one slick gentleman did the 30b
in 36 seconds; but show cattle and scrubbers
are a bit different.
* * * *
“Yarri” : By old scrub warriors in parts
of Eastern Queensland the broad-leafed
stinging-tree is called “the tree of vengeance,
The yarn is told that a prison gang from
Moreton Bay. under a brutal overseer, was
cutting a road through a scrub where the trees
were numerous and the prisoners were com-
pelled to handle the agony without protec-
lion of any kind. Being
driven to desperation by the
torture, the gang at last
seized the overseer, tore off
his clothes, and threw him
into a thick clump of the cut
branches. Then they beat
him with bunches of the
leaves till there wasn’t a spot,
on him that was not blis-
tered. He died, so the story
goes, soon afterwards.
* >l= *
“Mulgo”: Regarding the
appearance of fish in a lake
after it had been dry for 12
months, in Queensland I have
seen small fish swimming in
surface water after rain,
where there was no water
within miles before the
downfall. A rain of fish is
not an uncommon phenome-
non in Ban an aland, and oc-
curs over small areas of coun-
try during fleeting thunder-
storms. Along the Ward
River and Ivoopa Creek,
when the streams had been
depleted of fish in a long
drought, Binglii wizards used
to perform a fish-making
ceremony as soon as rain had
filled the courses again. It
was seldom long before the
waters were alive with fish,
for Avliich the wizards took
the credit. Probably the fish
came from ova that had
not been destroyed by the
drought, though local bush-
men said they came from
the clouds. They accounted
for fish in bore drains in
the same way. Another and
possibly more accurate explanation is that
eggs and possibly small fry are carried on
the feet of aquatic birds.
:J: * =l= *
“Gustave’’: The frogs in the Swan River
(W.A.) do not croak, but emit a high-pitched
groan. It sounds like a human being in
distress, and has a startling effect on people
who are not used to :t. This is stated to be
the reason of the incomplete exploration of
the river by the early French explorers,. the
boatmen becoming terrified by the ear-pierc-
ing groans of the frogs. However that may
be, the French got no further than the site
of’ Perth, although the channel is navigable
for over 20 miles further up.
* * * *
“Rob Roy” : “Ncver-work Ned,” a Cornish
identity of the Bendigo district, was a
nuisance in chapel, being unable to resist
punctuating the sermon with exclamations of
“Gloory, gloory be.” Some of the members
on one occasion promised him a sucking-pig
if he could sit the sermon through without
his usual interjections. This challenge he
accepted, and Ned kept quiet till the end
of the sermon had almost been reached, when,
the preacher having worked up to a fine
climax, Ned’s feelings overcame him, and he
burst forth with “Pig or no pig—Gloory!”
DOGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“We ’uman beans,” said Dick to me “is
masters o’ the earth.
We does a little, leave a lot an’ skites fer orl
we’re worth.
The hanimals go on their "way an’ never
think nor fuss;
An’ yet I reckon, if yer look, they've got it
over us.
“See that ole mongrel there o’ mine—’e’s
stuck ter me like glue,
An’ never growled an’ called me ’ard, as
other cobbers do.
’E knows that w’en I feed ’e feeds; an’ so
’e pads along,
An’ doesn’t worry is ole ’ead erbout wots
right or wrong.
“A patch o’ grass or my old coat will do ’im
fer a sleep,
To-day’s as good as yisterdee—’e’s no wild
oats ter reap.
An’ las’ week’s sins don’t spoil nex’ week
w’en you’ve no fear of ’ell;
’E didn’t git the flamin’ axe w’en pore ole
Adam fell.
“We ’umans, as I sez jist now, are clever
in a way
With wireless an’ motor-cars an’ airyplanes,
ter day,
An’ yet—yer see that dog o’ mine? Could
ev’n a brigadier
Use ’is ’ind leg, as that dog does, ter
scratch ’is flamin’ ear?”
VICTOKIA.
P. T. F.


Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. , . .
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover ot
last Bulletin to hand. . , . .. ,
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons. . . _ ,
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
By motor driver (26), eight years’ experi-
ence, job anywhere in W.A. or S.A.—9142.
By jackeroo, well educated, two years’
experience, W.Q. sheep selection, similar
position on large station anywhere.—9156.
By ambitious young lady, Sydney Con.
student, loan of first-class violin. Refs. —•
908S.
By young woman, Brisbane, musical, com-
petent stenographer and book-keeper, position
as secretary or companion to person travel-
ling abroad. —9121.
By station manager, Q’land (38), married,
£2000 capital, 20 years’ experience, know-
ledge of book-keeping, classing, opportunity
to better present position. Qualified steam
engineer, and can do motor repairs.—9113.
Elderly man, Sydney, 25 years’ bush ex-
perience, can cook and bake, handy with
tools, wants light work or position as care-
taker.—9112.
Refined middle-aged woman, Sydney, would
like to correspond with another lady inter-
ested in fishing and walking, view excursions
and companionship.—9075.
By young man (21), job in garage, or
with firm handling tractors. Four years’ ex-
perience driving tractors; also wide know-
ledge of cars and motor-cycles. Westralia
or Q’land preferred.—9067.
By woolbuyer, young, energetic, several
years head buyer for Bradford firm, position
in Australia, view partnership. Testimonials.
—9081.
By Tasmanian (20), clerical position in
the Islands or N.T. Thorough knowledge
book-keeping, can drive car and understands
machinery.—9158.
By young woman (Tasmanian), position
as travelling companion to lady; accom-
plished singer, able to drive car. —9157.
By nurse, capable, good credentials, posi-
tion in Q’land in May.—9169.
By literary man, very quiet room, writing
table, with or without board, handy to Svd-
ney; or would join other writers or students
in house or flat.—9161.
Words of “Flying Kate.” (To G. A.
Spears, Tawanui, Catlins, M.L.).
Words of verses beginning “Dead! Dead
in a doorway in Chestnut-street.” (To Mrs.
A. W. Wood, Myrtle-street, Gilgandra,
N.S.W.)
To buy books giving directions for making
wire baskets, door-mats, novelties, etc. —8532.
Whereabouts of Joseph Milican and
Robert Collins, both old Charters Towers
identities. (To Eugene Monahan, Grassmere,
Carnarvon-street, Carlton, N.S.W.)
Information Sought.
Can you supply me with a comparison
showing the prices of H. V. McKay's agri-
cultural machinery in Australia, Canada and
the Argentine ? —893S.
No comparison can be given. The H. V.
McKay Pty. states that it has never ex-
ported its implements to Canada, and has
not exported them to Argentina since 1914.
How can I destroy crickets and grass-
hoppers that are attacking vegetables ?—
9160.
Take loz. arsenate of lead (Paris green),
lib. bran, and enough treacle to make a
stiff paste, Roll into lumps the size of a
walnut and place here and there amongst
the plants. Care should be taken that chil-
dren or domestic animals have not access
to these baits.
What are the prospects in Sydney for a
young black-and-white artist of no special
ability who wishes to become a free-lance? —•
8689.
Not at all attractive. Better for him to
make art a side-line to some less hazardous
occupation. Then, if his work stands out.
there is a chance of his getting a salaried
job as an artist.
(1) What is the number of agricultural
implement works in Australia? (2) Number
of workers employed? (3) Annual amount
of wages? (4) Principal agricultural imple-
ments manufactured in Australia? —8916.
(1) 155. (2) 6636. (3) £1,501,725. All
these figures are for the year ended June
30, 1927. (4) Stripper-harvesters (an Aus-
tralian invention), header-harvesters, strip-
pers, reapers and binders, stump-jack and
other ploughs, harrows, disc and other culti-
vators, winnowers, corn-shellers and baggers,
drills, kerosene- and petrol-engines.
(1) Is strawberry-growing profitable in
■N. S. Wales tableland districts? (2) What
is the most suitable variety? (3) What mar-
kets are available? —9172.
(1) The strawberry will do well on the
N.S.W. tablelands, but the season is shorter
than at lower altitudes and the high prices
for very early fruit grown on the coast will
be missed. Even on the tablelands, where
the rainfall is high, water is required for irri-
gation during dry spells to obtain regular
crops. (2) The Creswell seedling does well
on the tablelands. (3) A market can usually
be obtained in the larger surrounding towns.
(1) Is cider-making a profitable side-line
for a N. S. Wales apple-grower? (2) Names
of publications dealing with cider-making?
8329.
Inquiries were made by the N.S.W. De-
partment of Agriculture a few years' ago,
and it was found that cider-making was
not sufficiently profitable as a side-line to
apple-growing. The process is as intricate
as that of wine-making, and requires expert;
•knowledge, long experience and very close
attention. (2) “Study in Cider-making, by
W. B. Alwood; “The Apple a ?dlear as
Vintage Fruits,” by 11. Hogg ana H. Graves
Ball; “Reports on Cider-making at Bur-
leigh,” by Lloyd ; and C. W. Radcliffe Cooke s
book upon the subject. Pamphlets and other
literature are obtainable from the various
State Agricultural Departments.
What tools is a first-year apprentice to the
engineering trade generally required to pur-
chase, and at what cost? —9171. .
Six inch and 12 in. steel rules, inside and
outside callipers, surface gauge, small square
and centre punch. From 30s. to 40s. should
cover the cost.
What are the ingredients of aluminium
solder, and how is it applied? —Bß3s.
No really satisfactory solder for the join-
ing of aluminium surfaces has yet been
evolved, and long joints are made by welding,
Small pinholes in kettles, etc., may be
patched by using alloy solder, sold in small
sticks by hardware stores, or even ordinary
solder. No flux is necessary. Otherwise the
usual rules of soldering apply.
Are there books or magazine articles deal-
ing icith water divining? —B6ss. _ _ _
“The Divining Rod,” by Sir William
Barrett and Theodore Besterman (Methuen.
London), 18s.; also article in Queensland
Agricultural Journal, Sept., 1914 (pages
183-193).
What ingredients are used in the making
of chlorate of potash tooth-paste? —B7B7.
Potassium chlorate, 200 parts; starch, 200
parts; carmine lake, 40 parts; saccharine
(in alcoholic solution), 1 part; vanillin
(dissolved in alcohol), 1 part.
Can you give me a recipe for a fly-spray?
—8692. _
Eucalyptol, 10 parts; Bergamat oil, 3
parts; acetic ether, 10 parts; eau-de-Cologne,
50 parts; alcohol (90 per cent.), 100 parts.
Mix. One part of this essence should be
added to 10 parts of water.
In the case of a pipe line 900 yards long
with a gradual fall of 40/f., how much 'water
would be delivered in an hour, (1) if jin.
galvanised-iron piping were used? (2) If
1 in. piping were used? —9o42.
Provided the pipes are new and e'ean (1)
96 gallons per hour; (2) 198 gallons per
hour.
(1) What prospects are there of earning
a living boring for water in N.S.W. or else-
where 'in Australia? (2) Are there any
books on the subject of boring for water?
(3) llow lorg does it take to learn to be a
first-class driller? —8869.
(1) Fair prospects of a good living. (2)
No textbooks are available; the best way to
acquire knowledge is to take a position as
helper under a competent driller. (3) De-
pends on aptitude of the individual. Roughly,
3 to 5 years.
Is there a Federal bounty on preserved
fish?—9od2.
There was, but it was discontinued in 1917,
Payments amounted to £3005 in ten years
I have a paddock in which oats, corn,
etc., have been grown without much success.
I am desirous of solving it down with grass ;
the soil is light and stony, of poor quality,
and sets like cement if at all wet when
ploughed.- (1) What is the most suitable
grass? (2) What manure shcnild be used
when sowing? (3) What quantity of seed
per acre? (4) What amount of manure per
acre? (5) Would it be worth while sowing
it down at all? (6) Cost of seed and
manure ? —B9IB.
(1) and (3) Tall fescue, 31b.; Wimmera
rye, 31b.; cocksfoot, 41b.; Sheep's Burnet,
21b.; English trefoil, lib.; red clover, lib.;
total, 141 b. to the acre. (2) and (4) Super-
phosphate at the rate of lewt. per acre. (5)
It should be worth while laying the land
down to improve pasture. (6) Seed 19s. 4d.,
manure 6s. 6d. per acre.
(1) Where are the Barrier Ranges and
in what part of them are the Euriowie tin
lodes? (2) What is the nearest railway
connection? (3) What r quantity of tin has
been taken from the field?— 9olß.
(1) and (2) In N. S. Wales, close to the
S.A. border. Euriowie lies about 50 miles
north of Broken Hill, and 12 miles by road
from Tarrawingee, the terminus of a tram-
way from Broken Hill and the nearest rail-
way connection. (3) The output of tic
(dressed ore and concentrates) is estimated
to exceed 100 tons.
llow can I kill pepper-trees without cut-
ting them down? Will arsenic kill them? —
8972.
Ring-bark the tree by cutting a frill around
the trunk by downward cuts with an axe,
thus forming a gutter into which an arsenic
solution is poured from an old teapot or
other convenient container. A suitable solu-
tion is made by dissolving with gentle heat
loz. arsenic and 3oz. washing soda in 3 pints
of water. If only a few trees are to be
treated, it would be more convenient to pur-
chase a liquid arsenical weed-destroyer from
a seedsman and use diluted 1 to 25 with
water. These solutions are highly poisonous
and great care should be exercised in hand-
ling them.
(1) Has Henry George's “Progress and
Poverty ” ever been answered? If so, where?
Is there any fundamental economic fallacy
in his argument? —9o3s.
Critics who thought it worth while an-
swered him in plenty, but it soon ceased
to be worth while. George proposed to con-
fiscate private land (not the improvements,
but the soil) and to pay the cost of run-
ning the country out of the rent, if suffi-
cient. This would involve the annexation
of whatever money had been paid for the
soil or lent on it by way of mortgage, and
would turn the man on the soil into a per-
petual rent slave unless he quitted. In
return George foreshadowed the abolition of
tariffs and tariff revenues, so that both the
manufacturer and the agriculturist might
live by cheap labor and free competition.
George didn’t live by being a manufacturer,
a factory worker, or a little farming free-
holder himself, so he could theorise freely.
(1) How is the liquidation of C.A.S.E. Cos.
■proceeding? (2) Is it lilccly to yield any
divs. for any class of .shareholders? (3)
When is it likely to finish ? —9029.
(1 and 3) The liquidation is not yet com-
plete. Several matters are still awaiting
decisions of the Court. The bank debenture
still obtains. When the costs of the liquida-
tion are ascertained the debenture-holder will
be paid out of any remaining moneys. Any
balance then remaining will be paid to the
following in this order: (a) Salaries late
employees, N.S.W.; (b) Crown debts; (c)
the balance pro rata to unsecured creditors.
(2) There will be no return of capital to
either preference or ordinary shareholders.
(1) How many inhabitants must a toivn-
ship have to be constituted a borough in
Vic.? (2) What salaries must be paid a
borough's officers? —8951.
(1)' Five hundred householders. A petition
must be presented, signed by 250 house-
holders resident within the area, including a
majority of ratepayers. (2) Salaries are fixed
by an Arbitration Court award and vary
according to the revenue of the municipality.
(1) I wish to take up cane-farming in
Queensland, but have no capital. What arc
my prospects of getting a farm? (2) Can
you recommend any literature on sugar culti-
vation? —8873.
(1) Not bright if you have no capital.
No new lands are being opened up for cane-
growing at present, and to purchase an im-
proved farm at least £SOO deposit would be
required. (2) Queensland Agricultural De-
partment will be able to supply you with a
number of bulletins on the subject.
llow to remove from lino, excessive coat-
ing of polish, which is very sticky? —S976.
Rub with a woollen cloth well soaked in
petrol, kerosene or methylated spirit. Tur-
pentine is also effective, but slower. All
are inflammable.
Preparation for polishing redgum steps?
—8899.
There is no preparation -entirely satis-
factory, all floor treatments having to be
frequently renewed. Interior steps whicn
are stained can be painted with a thin
paste made by dissolving brown shellac in
methylated spirits, which gives a hard gloss;
the mixture takes some hours to dissolve.
Paint shops can supply a similar prepara-
tion ready for use. Outdoor steps can be
painted a dull brown, but are best left un-
treated and washed when necessary.
(1) Who were the youngest players among
the last Australian cricketers to go to Eng-
land? (2) Was Woodfull or Taylor the
younger? (3) Is Arthur Richardson coach-
ing in England? If so, for what couity? —•
9105.
(1) Everett, 25; Ponsford, 26; Woodfull,
29. (2) Woodfull. Taylor was then 31. (3)
He has a professional engagement with the
Bacup (Lancs.) League club during the
English season, but returned to Westralia
during the Australian summer and resumed
his job as coach to the W.A.C.A. Two
years’ residence is necessary before he can
qualify for an English county.
Tell me something about annuities. I am
69.—8909.
That’s a large order, too; and these re-
marks must be made in very general terms.
You can buy a deferred or an immediate
annuity; there are also joint annuities. At
69 last birthday you can pay in £IOO and get.
thereafter about £2 16s. a quarter for the
rest of your life. No medical examination
will be demanded; but it might be possible
to make better terms if conditions were ex-
ceptionally “satisfactory” from the office’s
point of view. You understand, of course,
that the principal paid in is not recoverable
at your death, or any part of it; so the
annuity, while an excellent thing for people
without dependants, is not suitable for those
otherwise situated. For “Wild Cat”, reviews
of cos. you name see 2/l/’29, 5/12/’2B,
18/4/’2B.
(1) What is a comeback sheep? (2) What
is a crossbred sheep? (3) Ilow arethey
distinguished one from the other. —9070.
(1) A type of crossbred sheep showing a
pronounced preponderance of merino blood,
and, in its general characteristics, resembling
the merino. The actual breeding might
range from seven-eighths to fifteen-sixteenths
merino blood. (2) The term “crossbred” is
very comprehensive and covers any sheep that
possesses in its breeding the blood of two or
more distinct breeds. Any sheep of impure
breeding is a crossbred. (3) One test is
the quality of the wool. The comeback
ranges from 58’s to 64’s; the crossbred from
44’s to 56’s.
What is the best class of coal for the
production of' oil by low temperature dis-
tillation? —8967.
Coals with a high percentage of volatile
matter are favored for the production of oil
if the production of oil is the main objective,
but the low temperature distillation process
is not as a rule designed merely to produce
oil from coal. It is a process by which
engineers hope to produce an excellent smoke-
less fuel, with oil as a by-product.
(1) In what countries outside Australia
is tobacco grown? (2) How many tobacco
factories are there in the various Australian
States and how many workers do they
employ? (3) Percentage of Australian-
groum leaf used in Australian factories? (4)
Value of finished product? —9o4s.
(1) The U.S.A., Cuba. Mexico, Egypt,
Syria, Macedonia. Asia Minor, India. Japan,
China, South Africa and the Dutch East
Indies. (2) At June 30, 1927. there ivere in
N.S.W. nine tobacco factories and 2464
employees; in Vic., 12 factories and 1701
employees; in S.A., one factory and 24
employees ; and in W.A. 2 factories and 97
employees. (3) The respective quantities of
Australian and imported leaf used during
1926-27 were 1.212,7941 b. and 17,396.7181 b.
(4i Total value of output for 1926-27:
N.S.W., £4,817.651; Vic.. £1,921,004. No
figures are available for S.A. and W.A.
Brief Answers.
N.Q.: The total first-preference votes
received by Q’land Senate candidates: Crawford,
189,597 ; Horn, 134,816; Cooper, 37,914; Jensen,
11,216 ; Reid, 6162 ; Foil, 4489 ; Lawson, 4266 ; Mac-
Donald, 4249; Valentine, 3974. . . .5.N.0.: Try Lyster
Ormsby, 220 Pitt-street; Miller Stokes, 52 Margaret-
street; and J. R. Tyrrell, 143 Castlereagh-street—
all of Sydney....B.J.M.; (1) Imports from U.S.A.
to Australia for 1926-27 amounted to £41,394,277 ;
exports from Australia to U.S.A. for the same period
amounted to £18,579,094. (2) For the year ending
June 30, 1927, 1681 films (5,119,241 ft.) were
imported from U.S.A. ; 271 films (492,869 ft.) from
the United Kingdom; and 199 films (585,228 ft.)
from other countries... .J.M.: Formula unobtainable.
M.S.C.: (1) (2) and (3) Apply Commonwealth
Copyright Office, Commonwealth Bank Chambers,
Martin-place, Sydney. (4) E. A. Bradford, 30 Pitt-
street, Sydney. (5) Get in touch with Gordon and
Gotch, Sydney. (6) N.S.W. Agricultural Department
will be able to supply such a list... .J.H.H.: William
Hodge Coats, Woodside, Paisley, Scotland E.B.A. :
Electrolysis is the only reliable treatment, and it is
tedious and expensive and must be done by an expert
operator. You can bleach the hairs by withering
them with peroxide of hydrogen, which in time
weakens the growth... .V .M.L.; Royal Academy of
Dramatic Art, 62-64 Gower-street, London J.S.:
(1) Sir W. S. Gilbert died May 29, 1911; Sir
Arthur Sullivan died Nov. 22, 1900. (2) There is
a Gilbert and Sullivan Society (hon. sec., Miss Emd
Downes, 21 Friern Park, London, N. 12) in England,
but we know of no Australian branch... .T.W.: Ihs
N.S.W. Workers’ Compensation Act defines a worker
as any person who has entered into, or works
under, a contract of service or apprenticeship with
an employer. The question whether a contract of
service exists in the case quoted would have to
be decided by the N.S.W. Workers’ Compensation
Commission, Bridge-street, Sydney... .G.E.L.: The
weeds may be destroyed by giving the soil a good
watering followed by an application of Cooper’s
Weedicide. If a slight disturbance of the surface of
the court would not be objected to, the process could
be hastened by bruising’ the plants with a chipping
hoe or light rake J. 8.: Under the Cattle
Slaughtering and Diseased Animals and Meat Act
(N.S.W.), control of cattle slaughtering and licensing
of butchers’ shops is vested in the local governing
authority. Consult your shire council... .R.H.G.: (1)
Get in touch with the secretary, Overseas Shipping
Representatives’ Association, 8 Young-street, Sydney.
(2) The rating of A.B. in the N.S.W. coastal trade
is recognised when signing on a seaman as A.B. in
a vessel engaged in the overseas trade... .E.W.:
Yes, a “shopkeeper” is defined by the Early Closing
Act (N.S.W.) to include a hawker.... W.D.A.: The
coin is quoted in London at 11 guineas (dealer’s
selling price). In Australia you should get from
nine to ten guineas J.A.C.: Sand screens have
been used to overcome the difficulty referred to.
Consult a reputable boring contractor E.S.J.:
“The Banana” (18s.), Angus and Robertson, Sydney.
. ...M.H.; The disease is apparently canker. It is
difficult to cure, and it is only by careful adjustment
of pads saturated in formalin (10 p.c.) or some other
strong agent, and pressure, that success can be
attained. If it is a serious case and more than one
foot is affected, it will be a protracted job, and
unless the horse is a valuable one the expense would
not be warranted... .J.N.M.: See article on “Seal-
and Armorial Bearings,” page 434, vol. 2, “Aus-
tralian Encyclopaedia... .D.S.; A judgment creditor
in N.S.W. can garnishee wages above £2....8.L.:
Sydney is probably the better place in which to con-
tinue your art studies... .Irish 8.A.; Apply to Direc-
tor of Education, Sydney. Your claims will receive
consideration for admission to the Teachers’ College
if there is a vacancy E.F.W.: There is no award
in force covering the conditions of employment of a
traveller employed by a country retail draper....
J.W.; Apply to Home and Territories Department,
Canberra, F.C.T W.H.: You do rot make it plain
whether you desire to receive the benefits of the
N.S.W. Widows’ Pension Act or the Family Endow-
ment Act. If you will supply further particulars
we will make inquiries on your behalf.... F.W.G.:
She should sign the name commonly used by her and
in making a will refer to her husband by the name
then commonly used by him. Any question as to
identity could be settled by affidavits... .J.H.: Sil
Rohu, 143 lilizabeth-street, Sydney... .G.K.C.:
There are crocodiles but no alligators in Aus-
tralia. Read the article on crocodiles in “The
Australian Encyclopedia” ; also J. R. Kinghorn’s
article in the Australian Museum Magazine (vol. 3,
No. 9) ... . L.G.S.: Austria and Germany have con-
sular representatives in Australia. Bulgaria and
Turkey are not represented here. .. .G.D.H.: On the
facts stated, the attitude of the bank manager is
not tenable... .C.W.G.: Each debt, though small,
must be sued for separately, the debtor being a
different person in each case ; there is no process by
which the debts can be sued for in the aggregate....
E. 8.: The Royal Commission on National Insurance
published four reports, which are obtainable from the
Government Printer, Melbourne. The prices of the
reports are: No. 1, Is. 9d.; No. 2, Is. 6d.; No. 3,
6d.; No. 4,9 and M.D.N.: The difference in the
figures given in the two forms arises from the fact
that in the earlier form (in which are shown the
lower figures) dividends received by the taxpayer
are not included in income, while in the later form
dividends are included by reason of an amendment
of the law made in 1928. .. .A.H.: Information not
available in Sydney. Write to the British Consul-
General, Batavia, Java... .L.F.P.: The Pyrene fire
extinguisher is obtainable from Harris, Scarfe, Ltd..
Gawler-place, Adelaide. Price, 70s John M. ■
(1) Doubt whether you could drop it even if you
wanted to; anyhow, it is best now to see it through.
(2) Of course it is a gamble... .A.E.G.: (1) They
pay 90 p.c. The high market value (compared with
dividend it has been much higher in the past) is
due to expectations of still larger profits. (2) It
is a good investment. (3) Exceptionally able man-
agement and good fortune in striking the co-operative
insurance idea at the rigftt time. .. .D.G.: (1) Yes,
but you might have to prove the bonus; the certi-
ficate is proof. (2) No. (3) Some do and some don i;
your policy should inform y0u.... George G.: Cer-
tainly not. But how could such scrip get out? It
wants inquiring into.. . .E.C.R.: You insured with
a very weak office. The new concern may pul)
through. Your only hope lies in signing—and it’s
not a very bright hope then. .. .W.A.H.: It’s a
gamble. We don’t know; neither do they.... A.V.M.
Sent on to the only people likely to be interested
at present. Naturally, they are being flooded with
offers just n0w....G.A.: (1) We think so, though
it is rather speculative. (2) No. (3) Not a full
recovery. The present is not a good time to sell,
anyhow... .F.G.F.: None in the first rank so far as
safety is concerned. Prefer 1, 4 and (with mod
doubts) 5. No. 1 was reviewed in “Wild Cat'
Monthly for March... .W.G.H.: (1) More than 4'.
in the £ of capital is not represented by tangibl;
assets. (2) Not until the, management proves itself-
Thus far estimates have not been realised. .. .F.U.T.:
It would be foolish to consult a phrenologist. Take
the lad to the Director of Vocational Guidance, Dept,
of Education, Sydney.... (Many others mailed.)


& # K
•.>. A\ /ft ,
’
* „ , j'
i p &Md& i
'L* * .
m:.,, „
':: .*/ ' *
gj ■■•.
rr
>k> S'
§P%
liSSi
rw*
'-
=lllB
'BB'.'
MORE THAN TEN THOUSAND OF THE FIRST
‘FIVE THREE’ BEALE PLAYER-PIANO WERE
SOLD. THE IMPROVED ‘FIVE-THREE’ MODEL IS
PROVING EVEN MORE POPULAR.
d
, ? it v.
.; : “ & *f?i**3& f '
JsX'
ft.-kV
•“ '• :r x f
$ <?
.
Ti /jl-
*r
A GREATLY IMPROVED PLAYER-PIANO
BUT STILL THE SAME PRICE
NNOUNCED five years ago, the 'Five-
Three’ Beale was positively the best
Quality Player on the market. Then came
the improved model—at the same price !
L We sold over ten thousand of the first
model. No other player has become so popular as
the'Five Three’Beale in so short
a time. The im: roved model
has made an even bigger hit.
Take casework alone. This is of
walnut—laid vertically instead
of horizontally. That shows the
grain of the wood to better ad-
vantage. The top and bottom
doors are the new flush type —
beautifully inlaid with black-
wood. No resting place for dust.
All corners are rounded for the
same reason. The finish is hand-
ru bed crystal-clear lacquer—
not the old-time French polish or varnish. It
won’t crack, go white, check, sink into the wood,
or grow dull. All felt, including hammers, is
moth-proof. Yet the price is no more than we
asked for the old model. See the completely
dismantled instrument now being displayed in
our showrooms. Every part is
exposed for you to examine in
detail—convincing evidence of
our faith in the instrument
and in your judgment. The
Beale player action contains
every proved device for perfect
expression and interpretation.
As for terms, they are the easi-
est possible. If you cannot call,
ask for catalogues and printed
matter. Posted free anywhere.
An enquiry will not entail the
slightest obligation upon you.
In comparing other
instruments with
the Improved ‘Five-
Three* Beale, ONLY
COMPARE INSTRU-
MENTS IN THE HIGH*
EST-PRICEP CLASS.
The ‘Five-Three* was
designed to compete
with this class, and
this only, notwith'
standing the low
price for which it is
sold.
The Improved 'Five-Three’ Beale at the old price, £205, shows a saving of anything up to £7O
The Beale is also available in conjunction with the Ampico—the world’s most wonderful reproducing
medium. Ask to hear the superb Beale-Ampico
BEALE 6 COMPANY
Showrooms : IMITED Head Office and Factories
340 George Street, Sydney
($
41-47 Trafalgar St., Annandah
BRANCHES New South Wales: Newcastle, Wollongong, Lismore, Bathurst, Tamworth, and Maples at Wagga
and Albury. Vi.toria Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania: Maples, Hobart and Launc ston.
South Australia: Savery’s Pianos Limited, Adelaide. Western Australia: 1 h 'mson’s Limited.
Queensland : G. J. Lrice Limited, Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay, Townsville, and Cairns.
20a-Fp-27


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney I
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
Ƒ
You are on Firm Ground with the P. & C.
THE P. & C. works hand in hand with the man on the
land. From long and intimate experience it under-
stands his problems, and, because of its co-operative
basis, meets them. During dreaded times of stress policies
are kept in force, money is loaned, and the interests of its
members thus protected. Enjoy these extra benefits. Let
the P. &C. protect you without delay. Discuss the matter
with a representative or write direct for information.
Chairman of Directors : Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director :H. Fell
% PRODUCERS f/CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD
114 - H.O CASTLEREAQH ST. SYDNEY
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
PRIZES FOR FARM HINTS.
Thousands of men fail on the land be-
cause they don’t know how to succeed;
many thousands more succeed less than
they should because they lack proper
guidance.
“The Bulletin” wants to encourage
farmers and scientists who know to help
those who don’t know.
With that object it offers two prizes of
£2O and £lO for the most useful contri-
butions to the “Land” pages during the
six months ending June 30 next.
All contributions submitted, whether
published or not, will be considered in
awarding points, and the prizes will go
to the winners of most points.
Points will be awarded for interest and
practical usefulness.
The prizes are additional to the usual
payment for published contributions.
♦
“COCKY” CHAFF.
“Yeoman”: As a boy 1 was impressed with
the value placed on “cocky” chaff by the old
farmers of those days, particularly in the dry
seasons. It was a common tiling for men whose
crops had failed to travel from 50 to 80 miles
to more favored districts for a waggon load
of “cocky” chaff. The scrapping of the strip-
per and winnower in favor of the complete
harvester changed all that. The latter scat-
ters the “cocky” chaff to the four winds. The
cheaper cost of harvesting by the complete
machine may more than offset the value of
the chaff thus wasted, but when farming in
the Pinnaroo (S.A.) district prior to the
war I found the wide strippers and motor-
winnower more economical than the com-
plete harvester for taking off my crop. All
the “cocky” chaff was saved and was fed to
the horses throughout the year, on a 50-50
basis with wheaten or oaten hay chaff, and
the addition of a little molasses in solution.
In a stable of 16 horses the saving was
fully £lOO a year on the chaff bill, and the
horses did well and worked well on it.
The fact that I had to bring all the hay
chaff by rail, as it did not pay to cut hay
in the pioneering period of mallee farming
owing to stumps and malice shoots, inten-
sified the usefulness of the “cocky” chaff.
I am now farming in another phrt of
S.A. and last harvest had the harvester
equipped with a chaff carrier. The depar-
ture was successful. Most of the “cocky”
chaff was recovered and is proving a god-
send to my sheep. It is the best roughage
possible, in conjunction with linseed nuts or
oats as the concentrate, for hand-feeding.
The nutritive values of wheaten and oaten
“cocky” chaff compared with wheaten-hay
chaff, are as follows :
, Per 1001 b. ,
Carbo-
Albuminoids. hydrates. Fat,
lb. lb. lb.
Wheaten-hay chaff . ■ 1-90 20.00 0.65
Wheaten “cocky” chaff 1.35 22.50 0.35
Oaten “cocky” chaff .. 2.00 29.80 0.67
On the basis of wheaten-hay chaff at
£3 15s. per ton the nutritive feeding-value
of wheaten “cocky” chaff is £3 per ton. That
of oaten “cocky” chaff is £4 per ton. The
lesson is obvious. No farmer can afford to
broadcast from his harvester feedstuffs worth
£3 per ton in ordinary times, and much more
when the lean years come round. The chaff-
carrier places the precious stuff in convenient
dumps from which it can be removed to the
chaff shed or to central heaps that can be
covered with straw and kept for years, if
need be, without risk of deterioration.
RESIDUAL EFFECT OF SUPER.
“Mac Tent”: To test the residual effect
of small quantities of superphosphate on pas-
tures, experiments were carried out recently
at Cowra (N.S.W.). The experimental area
was fenced off in July, 1924. The growth
of grasses and clovers from plots that re-
ceived 281 b., 561 b., 841 b. and 1121 b. of fer-
tiliser per acre respectively has been
compared with a non-manured area. Inspect-
ing these plots recently the N.S.W. Govern-
ment agrostologist estimated that there was
400 per cent, more clover growth on the plot
that received 561 b. of superphosphates m
1924 than on the non-manured area. The
plant that responded best to the fertiliser
was ball-clover (Trifolium glomeratum).
The total rainfall for the period—sth April
to 14th November, 1928—was only 11.97
inches.
The residual result mentioned was paral-
leled in the top-dressing trials conducted by
the department on paddocks of up to 140
acres in area at Parkcs, Milvale and Mil-
brulong districts, where the average carry-
ing capacity of top-dressed areas was in-
creased over the unmanured areas by 54.5
per cent., 137.5 per cent, and 128.6 per cent,
respectively over a period of two years. The
treated areas received superphosphate in 1926
only, the rates of application being 561 b. an
acre at Parlies, and 841 b. at Milvale and
Milbrulong.
SPELLING GRAZING COUNTRY.
“G.D.P.”: The advantages to be derived
from resting grazing country are manifold.
Besides giving the pastures a chance, it
places the grazier in the happy position of
being able to relax a little, take a run
through other districts and snap up what-
ever cheap lines are offering, knowing that
he has ample feed to carry them. Or, if he
so wishes, he can pick up good money by
leasing his well-grassed country.
The point arises, what class of sheep
will bring in a fair return over a period
of, say, eight months in the year? For
the grazier who is not afraid to gamble a
little, nothing offers quicker or more hand-
some returns than unshorn comeback
weaners, preferably station-bred, one mark,
mixed sexes as dropped. But there are risks
and they must be cheap.
To illustrate the money these little chaps
will return : A few years ago I bought 2660
at 12s. 9d. per head during January. Though
I didn’t need it, I foolishly got a month’s
lift at 3d, per head agistment—and lost
100 head Of my stock. I moved the
remaining 2500 on to my own country,
which had been spelling since September.
Rabbits had been kept down and the land
was beautifully grassed and capable of
running the sheep till well into the winter,
whatever the weather conditions.
Early in July, to minimise the financial
risks a bad spring would mean, 1 sold
500 head to a Sydney firm for export at
225. 6d., and shore the remaining 2000 by
contract early in September. They carried
10 months’ wool and cut lOAlb. per head,
which averaged 23d. per lb. I sold the sheep
off shears at 17s. 6d.
Calculating on the full complement _of
sheep (2600), and after deducting droving
and shearing expenses and agent’s com-
mission, the return per head over 8i months
was roughly ±l. I sat < back and let the
grass grow for the remainder of the year.
The western districts were experiencing a
dry spell and graziers from there soon com-
menced nibbling for Riverina agistment. I
was offered from 10s. up to fl per acre for
a 12 months’ lease, and eventually sold right
out at an advance of £2 2s. 6d. per acre
on my purchase price. The feed, of course,
sold the property. Following my lead, the
new owner purchased 4000 hoggets, and
during his two years’ sojourn on the place
netted £5OOO. H'e also sold at a profit of
£2 per acre. The area was 2000 acres and
the years just ordinary ones—l92l, ’22, ’23,
’24 and into 1925.
WEEDY PASTURES.
“Hortus”: The main cause of the presence
of weeds in pastures of perennial grass is
incomplete preparation of the land prior
to sowing. The best method of preliminary
cultivation is to put in a crop of oats or
barley (beardless variety) in autumn, broad-
cast fairly thickly, say, at the rate of 501 b.
or 601 b. to the acre. The close growth of
this crop will help to choke the smaller
weeds, which really do the most damage.
After the crop has been taken off, plough in
the stubble fairly deeply, and leave in the
comb, so that the air, sunlight and rain
may enter and bring up every weed seed
there may be in the soil. Keep on working
the fallow throughout the summer months,
so that the sun may wither up the loosened
weeds. The ground should then be in a
good state for sowing the grass, w T hich should
be put in at the end of February or in
March, using as fertiliser lewt. of super,
to the acre.
A good plan to prevent weed seeds being
introduced into the paddocks is to see that
the horses doing the work of ploughing,
harrowing and sowing have no oats in their
ration. Wild oats are the worst pests graziers
have to contend with.
After the grass has come up, don’t be too
eager to turn stock on to it. Allow the
grass to develop nicely, and stock lightly
at the first grazing. Overstocking encourages
the growth of all kinds of weeds, for all the
finer grasses are eagerly snatched up fiist,
allowing the coarser and rougher plants to
make good headway to the detriment of the
grass crop as a whole.
SOUTHDOWN CROSS LAMBS.
“A J B ” • Last October the Western and
Murray Bacon Co. treated a consignment of
Southdown cross lambs for Mr. Browning, of
Yarrawonga (Vic.), for shipment to London.
A report has been received from the sales-
men and indicates the advantages to be
gained by breeders who. concentrate on the
production of lamb that is required by Smith-
field buyers. It states that the lambs were
highly spoken of by buyers, and that they
possessed all of the well-known chaiacter-
istics of the Southdown short, thick legs,
broad back and deep forequarters, with the
legs level with the back, a rarity amongst
other breeds. Customers of the salesmen
were very pleased with the flavor and ten-
derness of their joints when cooked. Prices
wore • Mr. Browning’s Southdown cross
lambs, under 361 b„ 101 d. I under 421 b., 10id.
per lb.; ordinary Australian prime, under
361 b., 9d. to 9£d.; under 421 b., BJd. to 9d.;
ordinary Maoriland prime, under 361 b., 94d.
to lOd.; under 421 b., 91d. to 9|d.
CLASS YOUR OWN WOOL.
“FY7” : One of the troubles of the small
sheep-man is wool-classing, and he often has
to rely on others doing this for him. If a
recent invention is all that is claimed for it,
the job can now be carried out in the home,
so to speak. The fibres to be classed are put
between two glass plates like a magic-lantern
holder. An electric-light throws a magnified
projection of the fibre on a screen. Magnifi-
cation is, about SO diameters, and measure-
ment of a fibre in thousandths of a millimetre
can be done by means of a celluloid scale
slipped on the slide. The machine elimi-
nates the personal element and has so sim-
plified classing that it is now installed in
many of the British and Continental works.
Cost is given at about £2O.
THE LOST SILAGE.
The Director of Agriculture, N. S. Wales,
writes: —
Re the unsatisfactory results which a farmer in
the Delungra district had with pit silage, in my
opinion the reason that the silage failed is that
the soil selected for the pit was of an unsuitable
type. Any red soil is suitable and sites should be
selected on such soils in preference to black soil,
which is generally low-lying and likely to crack ?n
dry weather and to admit water after heavy rain.
The sample of silage which we received from Delunga
for examination was conserved in pits on typical
black soil which cracks badly. In ensilage making,
it is absolutely necessary that the air shall be
excluded, and as the cracks in black soil extend
to a considerable depth and for a great distance,
both air and water freely reach the silage and lead
to deterioration. This opinion is confirmed by the
fact that silage which we examined from the lower
portion of the pit was in quite good condition. The
pressure of the silage above had excluded the air.
I have heard of other cases where silage has failed
when pits have been made with black soil.
BURNING OFF SCRUB.
“ Jolmno”; Unless the ground is wanted
in a hurry it is always advisable when cleav-
ing scrub land to let the felled timber dry
for at least 12 months before burning off.
This, when the felling has been done as it
should be, will ensure a clean burn, saving
considerable expense and no end of heavy
labor. In parts where suckering-up is bad
the area may have to be re-brushed before
a fire is put over it; but the cost of this
is negligible compared to the expense of
lumping a bad burn, and the dried brushings
help to carry the fire. A burn-off should
never be attempted earlier than two weeks
after a heavy rainfall, and then only if the
weather in between has been fine and hot.
The hottest part of a hot day—the hotter
the better —is the best time to start a fire,
and there should be at least a moderate
amount of wind. Never attempt a burn-off
early in the morning or late in the evening,
particularly in coastal parts and in hilly
country. The direction of the wind being right,
always fire from the lowest part, starting
fires simultaneously at a number of points.
While good fires can be obtained in any of
the summer months, provided the weather is
dry, the safest period for burning off is gen-
erally late October and early November.
GLAND DISEASE.
“G.G.6”: Lymph-adenitis, which has of
late years given the Australian mutton and
lamb exporters more cause for grey hairs
than any otlnir affliction of the sheep, is
known to be caused by infection introduced
from outside. How the responsible organism
is introduced is not so clear. The affected
glands are usually those situated in the
upper parts of the limbs, and this has cast
doubt on the old theory of inoculation from
water, since glands much more easily access-
ible are untroubled. Infection is conveyed
through wounds; recent experiments by in-
oculation have removed all doubt on that
point. Prevention should be the watchword,
and careful sterilisation of wounds caused
in crutehing and shearing is the first step.
The next is to take all possible steps to
sterilise the soil of sheep-yards and their
near-by surroundings when the disease is
known to be present on any property. Satura-
tion of the soil after digging over has been
suggested, a strong slieep-dip solution being
used. Even better is the removal of surface
soil to a depth of nine inches and its re-
placement with new soil. Even holding pad-
docks may be contaminated, and ploughing
up and cropping is the most effective method
of dealing with these.
RED-POLL CATTLE.
“Scotty’,’: Few breeders in N. S. Wales
know the value of red-polled cattle, or they
would be more popular to-day with the man
who keeps sheep and runs a few cattle as
a side line. They are good milkers, mature
early, grow a fine quality beef, and are very
good doers, being very suitable for a cold
climate. They will live and do well where
a shorthorn would die.
Some years ago I had 40 red-poll yearlings
ip a paddock with three shorthorns the same
age, and before the winter was over the
shorthorns were so poor they could scarcely
run, but the polls were very lively and in
good condition. They will fatten to heavy-
weights if kept till they are five years old,
but as the cry to-day is for a young beast
that will mature early, it does not pay to
keep them longer than three years.
TIIE BUFFALO-FLY.
“Boulia”: It should be noted in reference
to the coming of the buffalo-fly to Queens-,
land that the Queensland Government is
taking all possible measures to stay its
southern march. All tin' stock crossings from
the N.T. have been closed save that at Lake
Nash, and there inspectors have been
stationed. A buffer strip on the western side
of the Q.-N.T. border, kept free of cattle, has
been suggested as a preventive of the invasion,
but the cost of an adequate patrol rules
that out.
HORSE VERSUS MOTOR.
“Progas”: “FY7” (B. 2G/12/’2B), evi-
dently a lover of horses, has, I think,
allowed sentiment to creep into his eulogy
of the prad and disparagement of the tractor.
He is on safe ground when he says that
for many purposes the horse is more effec-
tive and much less expensive than the
tractor. For mustering stock and riding
the boundaries on rough mountainous country
the horse cannot be replaced by any machine
yet evolved. But when “FY7” quotes
Gilbey as his authority for saying that for
seven-mile haulages the horse is superior
to the motor, all I can say is that any
person with timber-hauling interests in
Australia would need to have swallowed a
bottle or two of Gilbey before he would be
persuaded to agree with the worthy knight.
In the N.S.W. timber industry horse teams
are now as rare as bunyips, and were it not
that there is not enough money in the game
to warrant the installation of steam haulers
or tram lines to get the logs out of
the bush the oxen and their chronically
dissatisfied conductoi's would be just as rare.
“FY7” goes on to say that in the United
States, where tractors and their fuel are
at their cheapest, horses and mules are
rapidly taking the place of motor power in
farming districts. He may be right, though
when I went through the States some years
ago Dobbin was about as popular as the
plague. In Canada he was, and probably
still is, used extensively owing to the severe
cold of winter, when a steam winch is needed
to turn a motor’s crank handle. The fact
that Australian farmers have not these con-
ditions to contend with is probably the
leason why tractors are being imported to
this country in such ever increasing numbers.
LIMITING PIGGY’S WEIGHT.
“Jady” : A point of farming lore that seems
to receive little attention in Australia is
considered extremely important in Maori-
land. Pig-farmers in M.L., when selling to
the freezing cos. for export, are paid for only
1501 b. (live weight) on any one pig.
Animals of higher weight are accepted, but
all over 1501 b. is a dead loss to the seller.
The companies claim, and rightly too, that
a pig weighing over 1501 b. has deteriorated
in quality. Hence when the pig is brought
to the required weight the farmer endeavors
to get rid of him at the earliest opportunity.
All that he is fed after reaching the in-
quired weight is merely food wasted. Two
or three days usually elapse between an offer
to sell and the visit of the buyer, and for
those days the Maoriland pig is fed on grain.
The difference between the flesh of the graiti-
fed pig and that fed on milk is readily notice-
able at the grading-inspector’s office—the
former is quite firm as contrasted with the
latter’s flabbiness. It is a point well worth
remembering wherever quality of pork is
aimed at.
(Continued on page 31.)


a
CD
CD
CD
ft
if
\
Vy A
w
9
n
r
Sj
ffir
H
saw
SHE DESERVES THIS COMFORT
HALVE her work and worries, double her pride and happiness in the home —
give her Frigidaire! A Frigidaire Cabinet means the end of the biggest of all
household problems—how to keep food fresh, pure and safe in all weathers.
Instal a new model Frigidaire in your home, put in it all your perishable foodstuffs,
butter, meat, vegetables and fruit—the bottled drinks, too! Turn on the switch
and you can forget the Frigidaire altogether. It needs no attention, no adjust-
ment, no care, no thought. Night and day Frigidaire will work, silently,
unceasingly. It costs practically nothing to maintain because it
uses so little current, and oh! how many pounds it saves,
how quickly hearty appetites appear when your meals have
come from the shelves of your spotless Frigidaire Cabinet.
If you have no electric supply, instal Delco-Light and
welcome Frigidaire to your home just the same. Delco-Light
is a complete electric plant and provides electricity for anyone,
anywhere.
There are over 200,000 users of Frigidaire! The advice of any one
of them to you would be —instal Frigidaire , now.
Fill in your name and address below and post this advertisement
to us.
See the NEW Frigidaire
More Beauty —More Power —More Silence.
NAME
ADDRESS
3-r.
n
Visit Stand No. 2
when at the Sydney
R.A.S. Easter Show
and see FRIGIDAIRE
in operation.
DISTRIBUTORS:
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 307-15 Kent Street, Sydney.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 380-82 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 172-74 Pulteney Street, Adelaide.
STEWARD MACLEAN PTY., LTD., 104 George Street, Launceston.
H
iiiiiiiiiftiiiifti
iiiiiimiiiftiift
PS
W
u
PS
llUlllliUllilUllllUl
Wm
©
a
IIIIiIIUIIUIII
iiiiiiiiiiimii
llllllillllllllllllllll
PRODUCT OF GENERAL MOTORS.


Merit
alone
€ * »
can win such popularity
The instant success of the new De
Soto Six is renewed proof that the
Australian public appreciates and
rewards true distinction and quality
in a car of moderate price.
The unmistakable enthusiasm which
greeted the introduction of this new
Chrysler-built Six a few weeks ago
has swelled into a great chorus of
approval—backed by a record-
breaking avalanche of orders.
You are invited to confirm this
popular judgment for yourself. See
and drive the new De Soto Six —and
you will applaud the verdict of a
host of owners who rate it supreme
in value.
Multum pro pare#
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DE SOTO DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales • GRENVILLE MOTORS LTD.,
N 205-213 William Street, Sydney.
Victoria: AUTOMOBILES P^f^Z^lbourne.
Queensland: STRADBROKE MOTORS LTD
South Australia: DOMINION MOTORSLTIK^
Waster,, Australia: WENTWORTH
New Zealand: NEW ZEALAND MOTORS LTD.,
Wellington.
CORPORATION (Division of Chrysler Corporation), DETROIT, MICHIGAN
DE SOTO MOTOR
De Soto Six
PRODUCT of CHRYSLER »*>3


******
bbe
3V* fS*
The springiest
golf shoe
Both sole and heel are of thick
crepe rubber that lends a
delightful resilience in walking.
The rubber, too, literally
cushions the roughest going.
It wears amazingly well.
The upper, in modified brogue
style, is made of brown calf.
It is sewn to a strong leather
base which holds the shoe in
shape. Arched to curve over
the instep, it allows freest play
of all the foot muscles.
Order by post
And ask, also, for a supply of
Abbey Dark Tan Polish—just
the right shade. (6d. per tin.)
BROWN CALF, 35/-
Enlarged catalogue of men's, women's
and children's footwear post free on
request.
ABBEY
E stablished over 80 years,
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
L.l 15.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAVERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins ... 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
POST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
i
v
Always Look Your Best
Cuticura Will Help You
By keeping your skin fresh and youth-
ful and your hair live and healthy.
The Soap is pure and cleansing, ideal
for every-day use, while the Oint-
ment is soothing and healing to
irritations. Cuticura Talcum is the
ideal toilet powder.
Soap Is., Talcum 1a.3d., Ointment It. and
2*. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W."
MT' Cuticura Shaving Stick la. 6d.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know .
Saves WO Shovels !
THE MARTIN DITCHER will do the
work of a hundred men at a fraction
of the cost. It is the most useful tool
on any Australian farm. Write us
for illustrated leaflet and particulars.
m
j|ill
v<
/m
m
The New.
The Old Way and
GF
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Exton House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
T. & G. BTg, Light Square, Adelaide.
PRICE
£35
B.K.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST COMMERCIAL FORESTRY CO.
SUBSCRIBED SHARE CAPITAL £235,586
SUBSCRIBED BOND CAPITAL £2,750,000
BANKERS—THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND AND THEIR AGENTS.
SOLE BROKERS—SMITH, WYLIE AND CO., LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN BRANCHES AT MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE,
PERTH, HOBART AND NEWCASTLE.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCHES—AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH AND DUNEDIN;
AND AT 36-38 NEW BROAD STREET, LONDON, E.C.2 ; JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA;
BOMBAY, INDIA; SINGAPORE; KUALA LUMPUR, FEDERATED MALAY STATES.
PAY AS YOU_ GO BY CHEQUE
toJf-
1. It eliminates unwise spending.
2. It saves time and many steps in settling bills. .
3. It gives prestige to your transactions.
4. It instils respect through your association with a reputable bank.
At this Bank you are allowed Interest on your
minimum quarterly balance.
epri manjpWi) urers £)an of Australia %
HEAD OFFICE. 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Blanches throughout the Commonwealth and at London
COLIC IN HORSES.
“Jacques”: If a horse is attacked with
colic, the symptoms of which are an inclina-
tion to lie down, biting at its belly, violent
switching of the tail, pawing or stamping
and sweating profusely, the best treatment
is to lead the patient about and drench
slowly with pint whisky, 4 tablespoonfuls
ground ginger, 1 pint water (tepid). Apply
hot blankets to the belly and leave them on
for half an hour at a time, or else make a
sloppy paste of mustard and vinegar and
rub over the belly for five minutes. An
injection of a gallon of soapy water every
hour also assists in relieving the pains. The
drench of whisky and ginger may be given
three times at hourly intervals. In the case
of ponies the dose should be reduced in pro-
portion to their size, say half quantities for
a 14-hands pony. When the pain has sub-
sided, the patient should not be allowed to
eat anything except hot bran mashes for
at least 24 hours.
FIGHTING POTATO VIRUS.
“Specker”: Dr. Nelson, superintendent of
agricultural lesearch in Tas., is his
best to set the potato industry in that State
on its feet again. After a thorough inspec-
tion of the potato-growing districts he made
the astounding statement that he saw
only two plants free from disease.
In the past methods have been discovered
for dealing with the microbe and the fungus,
but the disease which is attacking all crops
at the present time and spreading every-
where is a virus. This is a very low form
of life, in appearance something like a
watery slime. In tomatoes it is known as
the wilt. In potatoes the symptoms are the
crinkling and mottling of the leaves, the
poor growth above ground and the large
proportion of small tubers below, with only
two or three of decent size. No cure has
so far been discovered for affected plants.
It is known, however, that the virus is car-
ried over from crop to crop in the seed, and
that if seed from diseased plants is used
all the resulting plants are affected. There-
fore growers are advised to choose their seed
from healthy plants in the field when the
crop is about three-fourths grown. Also hoe
out and burn all plants showing disease.
No doubt this virus is active in other
States also, but in Tasmania the average
yield has fallen as low as 24 tons per acre,
whereas, as Dr. Nelson remarks, any good
Scottish farmer expects 12 tons. An area
of land over 1800 ft. above sea level has now
been planted under Dr. Nelson’s direction
with -reliable seed, including importations
from Scotland, which have successfully
passed the quarantine test. A high altitude
was chosen, ns certain diseases are less pre-
valent on high lands. Tasmania hopes,
when her own requirements are filled, to be
able to supply guaranteed pure and healthy
seed to the other States at a profitable figure.
PAPER MULCH FOR SUGAR-GROWERS.
“Hatter” : Have Queensland sugar
ever experimented with paper mulching? If
not, why not? The system was first tried
in Hawaii as far back as 1914 and proved
so successful that it is now the standard
plantation practice. A light-weight thermo-
gene paper, impervious to moisture, is used,
and this is laid directly over the harvested
stubble -or seed cane. The paper mulch is
readily pierced by the sharp young shoots,
while the weed growth is kept down. Owing
to the increased soil temperature due to the
black paper employed, and the conservation
of moisture, particularly in the surface soil,
due to less rapid evaporation, the plants
in the, mulched areas are characterised by
more vigorous growth and a heavier yield
than those of neighboring unmulched plots.
In addition, the elimination of practically
all weeding and cultivating is a large factor
in the economical production of sugar. This
consideration should have even greater
weight in Australia, where only white labor
is employed, than in the islands.
GRAPE FRUIT.
“Jerso”: Australian citrus-growers realise
the possibilities of grape-fruit, and efforts
are being made to discover and establish
suitable varieties. The latter are few and
far between. Many growers have established
a few experimental trees of Marsh’s Seedless,
but only one in a hundred has proved true
to label. There are at present perhaps not
more than 20 first-class grape-fruit trees in
bearing in the whole of Queensland. The
best of them is a freak specimen growing at
Beerwah (N.G. line). Many years ago a
bushman riding through a scrub track noticed
what he thought to be a Vbung orange-tree
sheltering in the shade of a giant beech.
Dismounting from his horse he dug the
orange-pomelo hybrid out as best he could
with a penknife and dumped it in his saddle-
bag. It was stuck in the ground anyhow
near the house, and flourished exceedingly.
Now, nearly 50 years, old, it is a huge tree
bearing quantities of excellent grape-fruit.
N.S.W. citrus-expert Benton is impressed
with the records of the tree and is at present
negotiating for bud-wood. There is every
hope of this proving to be the mother tree of
an acclimatised Australian variety of grape-
fruit.
MORE ABOUT MESQUITE.
“Bad Australian”: “W.P.D.” (B. 9/l/’29)
does not overstate the value of mesquite
(Prosopis jutiflora) as a fodder-producer,
and I am in accord-with his suggestion that
the tree might be of considerable utility to
Australian pastoralists. Known as the alga-
roba, it is found from Mexico to the southern
pampas of Argentina. There are seven or eight
varieties, ranging from a small stunted bush
resembling prickly acacia to the white alga-
roba ( Prosopis alba). In my opinion the
white algaroba is much preferable to mes-
quite or the rest of the family, as it is the
largest and most productive of the species.
The finest specimens of white algaroba are
found in the tropical and sub-tropical forests
of South America, but I have seen it grow-
ing on the “bad lands” with sage brush and
cactus. It produces an abundance of excep-
tionally nutritious fodder, and the Indians
eat large quantities of the immature pods,
and wax fat on a rather sweet johnny-cake
made from the pounded beans.
FRUIT TREES AND WATER.
“L’Fou”: While “XSA” (B. 13/2/’29) is
right in the main about the cautious use of
water in fruitgrowing, it’s a more intricate
business than his remarks suggest. A final
watering a month after flowering would suf-
fice a quick-maturing fruit. Those needing
a longer period of development, such as
late peaches and apples, could hardly reach
perfection under such conditions in dry sea-
sons unless on very retentive soil. Thinning
out as a substitute for watering might mean
thinning out profits.
The last stages of fruit development make
heavy demands on moisture. Much under-
sized and unprofitable fruit goes on the mar-
ket for want of more water at the right
time. There should be no check in the steady
filling-out of fruit. Checks from dryness
should be anticipated rather than remedied.
Splitting and falling, as well as injudicious
wood growth, may result from deluging after
drought.
Soil structure and drainage, taken in con-
junction with climate, must govern the
amount and frequency of waterings. “Wet
feet” are as bad as drought in the orchard.
Even with the best drainage, all surplus is
leaching valuable plant food from the soil,
and good husbandry should aim at conserv-
ing rather than replenishing moisture.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Johnny”: “Qurlew” (B. 16/l/’29) puts
too high a value on cluster clover (Trifolium
glomcratum). This plant appeared in the
pastures about here (Elmhurst, Vic.) over 12
years ago, when I sent a sample of it to the
Government Botanist. He pronounced it
of poor feed value, and his verdict has proved
correct. It is all over the State, wherever
I've been, and stock absolutely refuse to
touch it if they tan get any other herbage.
“H.J.G.”: To make a waterproof white-
wash that is almost as serviceable as paint
for wood, brick or stone, slake 1 bushel lime
with boiling water. Cover during the pro-
cess to keep in steam and then strain the
liquid thyough a fine sieve or strainer, and
add to it a peek of salt, previously dissolved
in warm water, 31b. ground rice boiled to a
thin paste and stirred in while hot, J)lb. of
Spanish whiting and lib. of clear glue, the
glue having been boiled up in the usual way.
Add 5 gallons of hot water to the mixture,
stir well and let it stand for a few days
covered from dirt. The whitewash should
be applied hot. By addition of coloring
matter various shades can be obtained.
“E. J.G.”: Dairymen sometimes complain
that dairy cows do not milk and thrive as
well on silage as on the ordinary pasture.
The reason of this is that the silage is
usually made of one crop alone, and is de-
ficient in certain food constituents that stock
require. Lucerne hay or chaff, bran or pol-
lard, or, better still, a mixture of these given
to the cows as well as the silage will keep
them in good condition and maintain the flow
of milk. Give the cow as much as she will
clean up, using one part hay to two parts
silage, and adding from five to seven pounds
of concentrates to make up her daily feed.
“Paul C.”: Always steep seed wheat or
oats in sulphate of copper (bluestone) solu-
tion before sowing as a safeguard against
bunt and smut. Use a cask or deep tub in
which half a bag of grain can be steeped at
a time. The seed may be left in the bag,
and if a rope is fastened to the bag and
thrown over the beam in the shed it can
conveniently be hauled up out of the water
when steeped enough and allowed to drain.
Use 2ioz. bluestone to each gallon of water.
The bag should be lifted up and down in
the solution to ensure every grain getting
wet. It may be left in the liquid for three
minutes. When drained the seed should be
spread out thinly on cloths and a little slaked
lime should be sprinkled over it. It will soon
be dry enough to handle and sow.
“Spike”: To cure a festlow on a horse’s
back or shoulder, take 6d. worth of croton
oil and mix with an equal amount of Stock-
holm tar. Take hold of the skin where the
throat meets the thorax and slip a sharp
knife through the fold. (Should the animal
be quiet there is no need to put him in the
crush to do this, as he will feel practically
no pain and should stand quietly.) Take
a strip of leather about six inches long
(portion of a bridle rein serves admirably)
on which the mixture has been smeared
copiously. Slip the leather right through
the aperture and tie the ends. After a
couple of days add a fresh application of
the mixture to the leather. The pus will
commence to percolate down in about a
week. Keep the animal under observation
until draining has ceased, then turn him out.
“R.X.8.”: If a cow keeps in poor con-
dition, and gives a low supply of milk
despite good feed and an absence of symp-
toms that indicate disease, her condition
is due to indigestion. Give her some hand-
feed of a palatable nature twice a day, and
include in it a handful of soaked linseed oil
cake, and a good pinch of salt lick. Pre-
pared salt compounds are preferable to rock
salt. Six packets of Epsom salts should
'be added to the feed twiie a week. The
cow should show a marked improvement
in 10-days,-and should be in good condition
in a month. If she is not, get rid of her,
as she will never be worth her feed for
milk and will never fatten.
“L.N.”: “R.D.A.” (B. 6/2/’29) urges the
use of the dearer sulphate form of potash
in lieu of the potasically richer muriate,
because, he says, muriate (chloride) attracts
moisture and makes a sticky mixture.
Muriate free from chloride of magnesium
does not attract moisture, and thousands
of tons of it are being used in Australia
for all purposes. Of a total importation
heading towards a million tons of potash
yearly, the U.S.A. (not given to paying
more than need be for anything) uses only
60.000 to 70,000 tons of the sulphate,
largely for tobacco. The overwhelming
majority is, of course, in the chloride or
muriate- form, of varying percentage. In
the European countries of potash origin
(Spain, Germany, France and Galicia) the
use of the more costly sulphate form is
relatively insignificant, and it is virtually
unknown in Holland and Belgium, the
countries using the greatest quantity of
fertiliser per head of population of any in
the world. Why, then, should Australia
buy the dearer article?


Hnsns
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, wilt ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
j l
MM SS •
L-< SS
m &
m
»
'v.._ V — l
—'l
/A\ /
! A
. —-s
Ns-.--
NS
“Its Quality Never Changes,
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
SMOKE-OH!
“She found letters, in women’s handwriting, mak-
ing appointments, whereupon her husband intro-
duced her to two elderly ladies.” —Sydney divorce
report.
He evidently believed in the maxim: When
in doubt, play frumps.
HOW IT REALLY HAPPENED.
Having parked the time-payment car,
Adam climbed his heavily-mortgaged family
tree. Something in Eve’s manner caused
him uneasiness.
“What’s the matter?” he asked.
“Such a nice man, a Mr. Serpent, called
to-day,” she said. “He explained it all to
me, and I told him I’d get you to sign the
necessary papers. Everybody has one now.
“Everybody has what?” .
She led him to the branch on which
they did their entertaining and pointed
proudly. “It’s an Apple Piano-player!
she announced. “Only two pounds down and
ten and fourpence ha'penny a week. \\ e
simply had to have one. You just try how
it goes!”
Adam hesitated; and then, sorely tempted,
he picked up a roll, and fell.
It was shortly afterwards that the bailitt
with the flaming writ arrived and took over
Eden Villa and all effects on account of
unpaid instalments.
P. P.
* * *
A man named Getzoff was tried recently
for conspiracy. Unfortunately for him,
he didn’t.
¥ ¥
Fashion Expert: “Musk leaves
will keep moths away from delicate
linen.” Another method of defeat-
ing these pests is to put them away
with a modern girl’s undies and let
them starve to death.
* *
Sydney News : “Before his mar-
riage he was a noted oarsman.”
But now lie can only have a row
with his wife.
* *
In the Friend v. Friend divorce
case petitioner declared that her
husband’s income was £20,000 p.a.
She has lost a Friend indeed!
H*
The hungry husband, who has
been out late can always depend on
some cold tongue,.
SAFETY FIRST.
Popsy’s too fast, I fear. Her love
Is clearly only mine in part;
With Dick and Harry she’s too free —
Also with Tom. It seems to me
That I mil have to brake her heart.
The Frequent Lover.
# *
THE WORLD-BEATER.
“No wonder the people of Britain were inex-
pressibly relieved when this eloquent, courteous,
honorable man, whom an unkind destiny had pro-
jected into a world which passionately, savagely,
demanded a leader who could and would if needs be
drive it with whips through the horrors of the dark
valley in which the legions of Hell had been let
loose to the victory which was the only alternative
to death and dishonor, surrendered the reins of power
to Mr. Lloyd George.”— W. M. Hughes’s War Memoirs.
A vehement little man, whose face was
almost hidden by false whiskers and a
conspiratorial hat, stood at a street corner
in N Sydney and read the above to the
crowd. “Support the Little Digger,” he
urged, “a champion in peace, as he was in
war. Australia may get licked at cricket,
boxing and swimming, but while Billy lives
there is one distinction that can never be
taken from her—l refer to the deep-breath-
ing championship of the world. Down with
Stanley Bruce, who couldn’t dictate an 80-
word sentence without stopping to gasp to
save his spats.”
IF.
“Lady, cheerful, ample means, wishes meet gent.,
view mat.”—S. M. Herald.
A happy smile does she present,
This lady who has “ample means.”
But I, too, would be well content
If I were only full of beans.
Percy Pawnticket.
“Petitioner alleged that defendant declined to take
her to the beach because he had a cold.” — Age.
After all a man should not be expected
to go down on his sands and sneeze to a girl.
9f,
THE BAN ON MARY.
“Mary had” —hut the editor
Cried, poising a weighty howl,
“No more rhymes about Mary, or
Your death will he on my soul.”
Meph.
¥ #
Judging by the pawnshop windows bands-
men love to blew their own trumpets.
SOME EASY ONES.
“Old ‘Moore’s Almanac’ is full of woes, as usual,
and ‘Pharaoh’s Calendar’ gives much the same story,
but both dismiss Australia with a small portion o
disappointments and disasters.” —London cable.
Nevertheless we are ready to lay odds on
a few: — ... ..
(1) The Archbishop of Sydney will write
to the president of the R.A.S. objecting to
the Show being held on Good Friday, and the
president will reply that it will be held on
Good Friday as in the past. ,
(2) Over 1500 pedestrians will be killed
in motor accidents, and there will be no
audible objections. Under a dozen surfers will
lose their lives, and the uproar will be ter-
rific. In neither case will anything practical
of a preventive nature be done. ,
(3) Hundreds of letters will be published
in the Melbourne papers calling for the
further bridging of
the Yarra and the
removal of the
cable-trams. Noth-
ing will happen.
(4) Obscure
English tourists
will achieve pub-
licity by telling the
London press that
they found the
manners and
accents of the Aus-
tralians insupport-
able, their politics
vile and their
hotels horrible.
(5) W. M. Hugh-
es’s campaign
against the Bruce
Government will
proceed as in past
years.
(G) There will
be hundreds of
strikes, involving
the loss of over
£5,000,000 in wages,
and union leaders
will explain that
this represents a triumph for the prole-
tarian cause. .
(7) Agitations will be conducted against
the supremacy of U.S. films, and about 98
of the films shown will continue to be
American.
(8) Punters in a proportion of 100 per
cent, will go to races expecting to win, and
the bank-balances of 99 per cent, of the
bookmakers will show the customary in-
crease.
H. S.
PARENTAL EXAMPLE.
DICKY (who has been misbehaving him-
self): “Orright, Mum; I'll be good — for
a penny!”
MUM: “Ah, Dicky! Why can’t you be like
your fathert He’s good for nothing.”
Thursday:—
“Delegates to the Peace-in-Industry conference
were encouraged to smoke.”
Friday:—
“The conference is on the verge of collapse.”
How well we know that brand of cigar!
ANOTHER DANGEROUS TRADE.
“The preliminary ‘ballyhoo’ for the Sharkey-
Stribling fight slumped so badly that Jack Dempsey,
who was managing the show, had himself fired at
by a professional gunman. The gunman was severely
punished by the champion before being handed over
to the police on a charge of attempted murder.”
—Miami (Florida) cable.
The gunman’s wife and child were praying
hard in Surry Hills.
The bread-winner, whom both loved, was
away.
Their supplications centred on a little job
of Bill’s
For which he’d been engaged the previous
day.
“The chances are,” Bill had explained while
packing up his gun,
“I’ll cam my fee, and not have much to
do.'
I mightn’t have to fire a shot —when all
is said and done
I You can’t beat op’ry stars for ‘ballyhoo.’ ”
Stay! What is that the newsboys cry?
The wife springs to her feet,
And, heedless of Iter offspring’s protests,
speeds
Upon the wings of panic to the seething city
sheet,
Seises a paper frenziedly, and reads;
“Murder of Famous Diva!” meets her
horror-stricken eyes.
“Slaughter of Inoffensive Tenor, Too!”
“Basso Profuwdo Shot in Stomach — Subse-
quently Dies!”
“Said to be Due to Slump in ‘Ballyhoo’!”
Bill’s message from the gallows won attention
far and wide,
Though meant hut for the Strop-lane Razor
Gang.
Its gist was that a gunman should not let
artistic pride
Obscure discretion. “Boys!” Bill’s last
words rang:
GOOD RESOLUTIONS.
‘‘Oh well, I’ve made a mess of things as
far as I’ve gone, so I suppose it’s
up to me to turn over a new leaf.”
“Go on assassinating folks for any cause at
all —
Hard cash, revenge, or just mere sport—
but do
Take learning every one of you, by my
impending fall
And don’t 'pome at this new stunt,
‘Ballyhoo.’”
10-2-4.
THE UNAPPRECIATED MUSICIAN.
i.
Postman :
Hear my nice new whistle!
Hear my brand-new whistle!
Hark to its refrain!
Herald is my whistle
Of a ; State epistle
Claiming cash again.
11.
Taxpayer :
Hang his nice new whistle!
Curse his brand-new whistle!
Blast its shrill refrain!
At its sound I bristle.
Oh! that with a missile,
I could smash his whistle!
Smash him and his whistle.
And make him cry, “Oh, this ’ll
Keep me and. my whistle
From his gate again!”
LLER.
MAKING A WELTER OF IT.
The members of the Permanent Unem-
ployed Union wero on strike. A deputation
was waiting on the Premier, who was in a
peevish mood.
“Gentlemen,” he said, “what is the new
trouble? You have been awarded no hours
a week.”
“Too right!”
“And my Government has raised the basic-
NO GOOD TO MARY.
“Jacky’s a bonzer, Mary. He’s set there for life!”
“No good to me, Boss! How mine gibbit that pfeller tucker?”
wage rate where special skill has been proved
in avoiding work.’’
“Only after a struggle,” replied the leader
of the deputation ungraciously.
“You have been granted free passes on all
trains and trams on the ground that you are
unemployed. Employed people on the basic
wage, remember, have to pay.”
“Mister Blang,” thundered the leader of
the deputation, “we object to your display
of capitalistic prejudice. Naturally a man
out of work has to spend more than one in
employment. And, anyhow, what about the
payments at the post offices, where our mem-
bers until recently had to scramble with old-
age pensioners, returned soldiers and people
like that?”
“But by your own admission that objection
has been removed,” pleaded the Premier.
“The money is now brought to you at your
homes.”
“That’s just the trouble,” said the spokes-
man amid an approving growl from liis
supporters. “Sometimes it comes early in
the morning when most of us are asleep,
and in other places it doesn’t turn up till
midday. I nearly missed the first race last
Saturday through having to wait about for
my lawful dues.”
“I see your point,” said Mr. Blang
wearily. “I’ll have the abuse rectified,
though it will entail a greatly enlarged staff.”
“And then there’s this signing of receipt
dockets. Signing receipt dockets is work,
and ought to be paid for.”
“Come, now,” coaxed the statesman. Each
of you only has to sign one receipt a week.”
“The principle’s the same —it’s work.
“A mere minute’s work”
“A minute be blowed!” roared the spokes-
man. “It’s a principle of every award that
no man can be employed casually for less
than a day. That’s an extra day’s pay
you’ve been cheating us of! But, of course
our award is for no hours a day; therefore
it will have to be paid at overtime rates —
one and a half rates for the first three hours,
one and three-quarters for the next two,
and double rates for the balance Here,
what’s up? What’s the matter with the
cow?”
But the Premier did not hear the depu-
tation’s cries of disgust: he had swooned.
HAROLD HARDUPP.
VERY BLUE.
Little girl in baby blue,
With your great big eyes,
Colored with the self-same hue
A s the sunny shies.
Azure is your melting stare,
Like a doe's, new-born —
Blue as the adjacent air
When you bump your corn.
RIC.


I
The only Car Battery in the World
with Four Years’ Guarantees.
The only Car Battery in the World
tested and certified at the British Government's Testing Station.
H.R.H. PRINCE OF WALES’ Famous Dictum
“To Adopt, Adapt, Improve ; Sinking Trade Prejudices, Traditional Conservatism ; Have Imagination
and Enterprise; Concentrate on Mass Unit Production, Standardised, Interchangeable and Accessible.”
TUNGSTONE’S Chemists’ Original Research Work in Combination with Engineers’ Inventive Skill have entirely carried out the
striking advice of H R.H. securing for British Enterprise Master Patents of the World. Also secured British Government’s
World’s Record Test Certificate for 96 per cent. Amp. Hour 88 per cent. Watt Hour,
TUNGSTONE “Adopts, Adapts and Improves ” First Inventors’ Vita! Discovery of 1859-81.
Tungstone has Modernized and Revolutionised the World’s Battery Practices after 50 years’ stagnation.
Tungstone has rigidly adhered to Original Inventors’ basic fundamental principles, by making as they did the
Plate and Paste" of Pure Lead. The ONLY Metal that Perfectly, Reliably and Efficiently Stores Electricity
by Chemical Conversion —
The Crux of Generous, Reliable, Self-Starter Power and Storage which TUNGSTONE guarantees to give.
TUNGSTONE Chemists Original Research Leads
Tungstone Chemists after years of exhaustive Research Work have Definitely and Reliably discovered new
Scientific Chemical Formulae and Original Processes in Accumulator Manufacture. Tungstone’s Engineers have
practically applied the newly discovered Chemical principles by dependably incorporating them into the Only
Non-corrosive Acid Resisting All Metal Battery in the World, with Plates entirely made and perfectly Pasted by
Patented Automatic Machinery.
The latest development of Engineering practice to Machine Die Cast under extreme High Pressure is exclusively
used in the complete construction of the Tungstone Battery for all trades and purposes. High-Pressure Machine
Die Casting guarantees perfection of accuracy in measurements, uniformity of weight and tensile strength, longer
life with complete freedom from indiscernible blow holes or mechanical weaknesses—faults that in all other
Batteries constantly create frequent breakdowns and early destruction.
TUNGSTONE’S Practical Discovery is Far-Reaching
Completely, Reliably and Entirely Eliminates all Dangerous First Charging Risks.
Plates’ Future Working Life Considerably Extended.
WITHOUT COST TO PURCHASER. Tungstone Plates when made at the Works, are Fully Formed also given a
Partial First Working Charge. Plates are made chemically and electrically safe. Mechanically secure. Highest
possible ratio of Storage Capacity is secured during working life. Can be continuously charged at High Rates,
without internally short circuiting any Plate or forcing the Paste out of the Plate. Majority of present-day
Batteries are purposely undercharged to prevent earlier breakdown of thin made Plates. Tungstone Plates are
thicker, stronger, than any other Makers’ plate, and constructed to be charged at. continuous High Rates (which
we recommend) in preference to undercharging. Very generous space is provided in all other Battery Cells
(except Tungstone) for fallen paste, which destroys the majority of all other Batteries.
Tungstone plates, as made, are Tested on Av tomatic Jogging and Vibrating Machines Electrically operated to
test and prove that Paste cannot be forced out of the Plate. These Machines can be seen working at London
Offices or the Works.
"Sully lint Charged m FOUR CONTINUOUS HOURS
The minimum times that Portable Batteries take for First
Charging according to Amp. Hour Capacity is from 24 to 75
continuous hours or longer.
All other Makers’ Plates (except Tungstone)
are dispatched in an Incomplete, Delicate,
Unreliable manufactured condition.
“ Passing on ” to the Purchaser the many
serious risks of Forming and giving the
First Full Charge.
Also the increased cost of a necessary and exceedingly long slow
first charge which all the World’s Makers insist upon as absolutely
essential. Some are ONLY slightly formed. NOT all completely
formed. NONE are Partially First Charged at the Works as
Tungstone is without cost to the Purchaser.
BRITISH EMPIRE LEAD USED IN ALL TUNGSTONE
CAR AND HOUSE LIGHTING BATTERIES.
No
Bitumen
to
Melt
in
Hot
Climates
in
STARTS'"
H
mm?
ioISSgS;
FIRST
CttA&<&
OKI*
fetrw*
5«
No
Sealed
Lids.
Nothing
to
Melt
in
Hot
Climates
SYDNEY: A. J. Dawson, m.i.a.e., Sales and Service, 91 William Street (Tel., FL2084).
BRISBANE: Brisbane Cars and Tractors, Ltd., Wickham Street.
MELBOURNE: Hocking & Hadden Pty., Ltd., 208 Latrobe Street.
C.T.P. 44.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic P-isk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
a 1
luff
will appreciate,
tHe delicate
Bouquet and
mellow flavour of
MARTELLS
BRANDY
Shipp so sol civ from rue cognac oisrmct
Monday io Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/6.
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Speoial Table d’HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 15/-, or
a la carte, minimum, 15/-
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Jack Woods’ Ambassadors Dance
Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
A ROGUE IN AMBER
By J. B. COOPER
Illustrations by- Percy Luvdsey.
Synopsis: Antonio Saccaco, a Nea-
politan, gets into trouble and flees to
Paris, where he finds hard work
disagreeable. A merry fellow, he
marries Jeannette Morticr. Soon
afterwards he and a friend, Fran-
cois Neigre, murder and rob the
Baroness Bellarosa; but Saccaco,
having the booty in his own hands,
allows his partner to fall into
the hands of the police. To Jeannette
he is indebted for his escape from
Paris. Twenty years later, under the
name of Carducci, he is a hawker
on the river Murray, with Jean-
nette and, their handsome daughter ,
Marie, living on board the launch.
Marie, whom Carducci designs to use
in his own nCbney-making schemes, has
become attached to Gerald Deacon.
They meet secretly, and are surprised
at one of these meetings by Carducci,
who, partly drunk, draws a knife; but
Gerald knocks him out. Next day Car-
ducci decides to get financial compen-
sation from Gerald's father.
Chapter IV.
MR. DEACON’S house lay on the out-
skirts of the town. On coming to
it, Carducci knocked at the front
door. The knock was answered by Mr.
Deacon himself. He recognised Carducci as
the river trader and father of the girl with
whom Gerald had become entangled.
Carducci, on learning that Gerald’s father
stood before him, took from his mouth the
cigar which he had chewed to a pulp, and
offered his hot hand ’to Mr. Deacon, who
ignored it.
The Italian was not sure now that his
rogue’s mission would be a success. Gerald’s
father was not the type of man he had
expected to meet. His tall, lathlike figure
and clean-cut limbs were in striking con-
trast to his own tub-like body and his
clumsy arms and legs and big feet.
Mr. Deacon held himself erect. His head
was crowned with thick silvery hair, cut
short and well trimmed about his temples
and ears. Under a good brow, broad rather
than deep, his full grey eyes proclaimed a
dauntless spirit. His mouth was set firm,
with strong lines, supported by the jaws
and chin of the Englishman who is full of
fight.
The smell of beer, tobacco and garlic
set Mr. Deacon’s nerves on an edge and he
asked the man, shortly, what he wanted.
“Good time, all in a little while,” said
Carducci.
He had his foot over the threshold of
the front door and had walked into the
house before Mr. Deacon quite realised the
intrusion.
“Damned hot,” he said, putting his hat
on the table and wiping the sweat and oil
off his brow and hair.
Mr. Deacon made an impatient gesture.
“Tell me your business, please,” he said.
“I have no time to waste on you.”
“Ah, my friend, a wicked world! A sad
world, a very sad world, too. This morn-
ing I leave my wife and my little girl
weeping. Oh they weep as if their hearts
break in half. Since two days gone they
have been so. Ah, my own heart was
bleed.”
“While I am sorry to hear this, how does
it concern me?” asked Mr. Deacon.
“That is it. Do I not say it is a wicked
world? Do not the sins of the sons visit the
fathers? But I will not make the long
story. It is too sad to tell like that. I
miss my little girl one,' two. three nights.
I look for her high, low. Find her, me?
Sainted Virgin, no! From the boat into the
river—ah, yes, the saints help me, yes, so
it was. Poor Marie! Think of a father’s
heart. I go what you call mad.”
The Italian buried his face in a red hand-
kerchief, and for a few moments moaned.
With an effort he composed himself.
“Pardon, pardon, my friend, the father's
■ tears. I run into the bush. Ah, what do I
see? Marie weeping, and your son. My
honor, ah, my honor, Mistere Deacon! I
am a poor man, and your son —ah, your
wicked son! What has he done? He strike
me hard when I would correct him, and tell
me—tell me, Mistere Deacon, Marie’s father
—to go to Hell! Peste! What a son to
have!”
“I need not tell you what I think of
all this,” Mr. Deacon answered. “But how
can I help you?”
“Ah, very good man!” cried Carducci,
seizing one of Mr. Deacon’s hands, and
placing it between his own two fat oily
palms.
“Not we to help what our sons do. Ma
joi, non! It is too wrong to blame the
fathers.”
“That is so! But my son tells me that
you are quite mistaken,” said Mr. Deacon.
“Mistaken! Mistaken, Signor? I mis-
taken? Nevere! Was not I see Marie
weeping, Marie my child, so pure, she, and
so beautiful? Ah, the wickedness of your
son. He grey your head too soon.”
“My son tells me there has been nothing
between your daughter and himself, so I
fail to see the occasion for her weeping,”
replied Mr. Deacon with dry asperity.
“He handed it to Carducci... ‘Now go,' he said.”
“Ah! Good saints defend us! He say
there be nothings? Bah! See this letter!”
Carducci held the letter for him to read,
but did not let him handle it:—
Dearest Marie, —Tell me again, my dearest
girl, that you love me and that you look
forward to the raptures of our meeting. 1
thrill at the thought of having the sweetest
of girls ( that’s you!) in my' arms once more.
You are my only love. To kiss you on the
lips is to be your slave for bver, so sweet
is the intoxication that lies there. Meet me,
dearest girl, at the old spot. I burn for
you, sweetest girl in all the world, I burn
for you!—Your loving Gerald.
Mr. Deacon winced as he read.
Car and u c ci
placed the letter
back in an in-
nermost pocket.
“Ah, Mistere
Deacon,” h e
said, “you see no mistake I make. No,
no! The just Judge in the court will
know no lie I tell. Ah, you do not like
me to say that? Marie’s mother she would
throw herself into the river—how I fight
with her and stop her! See what your son
bring upon us! What the Judge would
say?”
“Do I understand you want to sell that
letter?”
“Signor, the poor man I was. My honor!”
Carducci whined.
Mr. Deacon remained impassive. The
man’s reference to his “honor” disgusted
him. Gerald had clearly fallen into a trap,
but it was of such a nature that Mr. Deacon
quite recognised that his son’s meetings with
the daughter of this most offensive man
might be handled so adroitly by the rogue
as to put a serious stain on Gerald’s
character.
“How much do you want?” he asked
sternly.
Carducci shook his head in doubt.
“Ah no, that is not me to say. The just
Judge he will say what is right. But I
forget not you, too, a father—no! I will
not be the hard one on a good man. I
the reasonable one. Scandal? No, no
scandal. Say one hundred pounds, eh?”
“One hundred pounds! Nonsense!” said
Mr. Deacon. “I will give you £lO and
that’s not because I consider either one of
you has suffered any hurt whatever at
my son’s hands. I feel sure that you have
not. I’m only giving it to you to get rid
of you. How do I know that you have not
other letters to sell? Is there only one?”
“I swear it, see,” said Carducci, making
on himself the sign of the Cross.
“Well, then,” replied Mr. Deacon, “it’s
ten pounds.”
“Ten pounds!” sneered the Italian. “My
honor you buy for-ten pounds! No, no!”
“It’s dear at the price,” said Mr. Deacon;
then he added: “Do you know, Carducci,
that I am a Justice of the Peace?
And that if I swear an information against
you for attempted blackmail you will be
arrested?”
“Non! Non!” hurriedly exclaimed Car-
ducci. “No troubles, please. The money I
will take for the letter. But the blow your
son was giving me, and the Judge he would
say”
“The Judge he would say, ‘You are a
rogue, Carducci!’” said Mr. Deacon. After
looking contemptuously at the Italian, he
added: “Fifteen pounds will more than
cover any damage you may have received
from my son—will that satisfy you?”
“Fifteen pounds! It is too little. Much
too little!”
“I will add ten pounds to the amount
upon certain conditions being fulfilled,” Mr.
Deacon went on.
“Ah?” said the Italian, mopping his brow.
“I’m going to make the twenty-five
pounds payable to your daughter, on her
personal application at the bank at Bourke.
You see 1 do not part with my money so
easily as you suppose.”
Carducci objected that the river Darling
was falling and they might not be able to
reach Bourke.
“I am aware of that. All the more reason
why you should not delay.”
Carducci muttered his protests.
“You see my object, doubtless? You
must take your daughter, your boat, bag
and baggage, away from here. If you come
back or your daiighter comes back before
you go to Bourke, the twenty-five pounds
is not payable. In that way I am design-
ing to protect myself from further annoy-
ance from you, and at the same time remove
your daughter out of the sphere where she
can exert her influence over my son. If
you do not agree to this, I shall hand you
over to the police as a blackmailer.”
It was twenty-five pounds or gaol! His
wife was right. It was odds against, him
getting to his boat that night, or for a
long time, if he was not careful.
“You rob me, yes, but I take twenty-
five pounds,” said Carducci with an
attempt to appear resigned.
“Oh no! Not twenty-five pounds. An
order for twenty-five pounds. Even then
there are some formalities to be completed.
WhAt is your daughter’s name?” asked Mr.
Deacon, putting writing materials on the
table and taking a pen in his hand.
“Marie Carducci,” said Carducci.
“And your boat’s name?”
“The Witch!” said Carducci.
(Continued on page 51.)


Unique
In Its Class
. -
ESSEX
Tourer, Australian Body ... £270
Roadster „ „ ... 2 70
Coach » »» ... 330
Coach, Imported Body ... 350
Coupe „ „ (Rumble Seat) 365
Sedan, Australian Body ... 345
Sedan, Imported Body ... 370
Prices at some points slightly higher.
Here is value that stands at the
very pinnacle of the world’s most
efficient industry. Here are per-
formance, beauty, comfort and
quality workmanship.
As you regard its handsome
ensemble and go over it detail by
detail, you get the same compel-
ling conviction of completeness
and finish, of costly car quality
and construction.
To see, to examine, to ride in the
Essex Super-Six can bring only
one conclusion that it is a car
unique in its class and the
world’s greatest value, altogether
or part by part.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DISTRIBUTORS:
YVHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD., NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane. Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
DALGETY & CO., LTD., AUTOS, LTD!,
Phillip Street, Sydney. Hay Street, Perth.
MOTORS, LIMITED, H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide. Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
F


Pago Pago
Samoa
TRAVEL IN COMFORT
By the
MATSON OCEANIC ROUTE
Leaving Sydney every third Saturday, the Matson-Oceanic liners
voyage across the Pacific in 19 days to San Francisco, central
gateway of the United States —on the scenic route to Canada,
United Kingdom and to the Continent of Europe.
These are fast and commodious steamers, where the pleasure and
entertainment of passengers, as well as their comfort and con-
venience, are given special attention. Lively deck games, delig it-
ful music by the ship’s Orchestra, nightly dances, concerts, picture
programmes —all help you to pass the time in enjoyment. The
outdoor swimming-tank is always a popular feature.
Most attractive of all, the route traverses seas of calm indigo blue, with
delightful pauses at Suva (Fiji), Pago Pago (Samoa), and Honolulu
(Hawaii) —Pacific Island ports where you enjoy excursions ashore and
view the picturesque aspects of native life, in the midst of tropical scenery
incomparable in grandeur.
Matson-Oceanic offices will not only ensure your comforts aboard, but
will arrange everything for you, right through to your ultimate destination
and return.
FARES: —Sydney to London, single, £125 first-class throughout; £ll2
first-class to New York, second-class on Atlantic steamer; £92 first-class rail,
second-class steamer. Available for 12 months. Return, £235 first-class;
£176 second-class. Write for illustrated booklets, fare lists, sailing dates, etc.
S.S. SIERRA S.S. SONOMA
SAILING EVERY THIRD SATURDAY.
S.S. VENTURA
m
¥
pei
12 Bridge Street, Sydney C-29
Local Agents: Mcllwraith McEacharn Ltd., 94-96 William St Melbourne; 117-119 King
William St., Adelaide; Fremantle, Perth, Albany; Howard Smith Ltd., Brisbane, Townsville
THE
of
AustrAlAsiA limited
HEAD OFFICE • 271-279 COLLINS ST. MELBOURNE
Capital Paid Up • • - • £5,000,000
Reserve Fund (used in the Business) £3,000,000
The knowledge gained through seventy-one
years' experience of Australian banking is
made available to the clients of the National
Bank by means of a chain of 485 branches
and offices distributed through the States of
the Commonwealth. The banking require-
ments of farmers, graziers, manufacturers,
builders, traders, merchants, workers,tourists,
settlers and all other sections of the com-
munity are met by a full range of facilities,
equally available to all persons whether their
means be great or small
Its arrangements for transacting Foreign
Business have been widely extended, and, in
addition to the two offices in London, the
Bank has Agents in every city of business
importance in the world.
TOTAL ASSETS EXCEED £45.000.000
If any illustration in ' THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Its a great tonic for the man at the wheel
“Ouite early in my career a famous athlete advised
me to take CLEMENTS TONIC as a training
stimulant, and I have continued taking it regularly
ever since. I have found it to be a wonderful
nerve food and stamina builder, and a safeguard
against chills. I advised the many successful
athletes I have coached to also take CLEMEN f S
TONIC, and three of them reached world’s cham-
pion class. These men would not be without a
bottle of CLEMENTS TONIC handy any more
than I would myself.”
L. V. Mudge. Mildura.
“AS A TRAVELLER visiting the
various homes in my work and busi-
ness I got wet and contracted a bad
cold and influenza, which left mein
a weak state of health. CLEMLN TS
TONIC was taken and in a very
short time I was recuperated back to
health again. Also in training for
boxing 1 have used this medicine
when in a low state of health and
consider this Tonic a wonderful body
builder. Use this testimonial as you
so desire. T hOMPSON, R edferru
ƑG
m
i
m
m
m
m
«s ;
W
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
S5»
“BILL” FITZSIMMONDS
thinks CLEMENTS TONIC
a great thing for the man at
the wheel.
“Some time prior to the record drive I
suffered a pervous breakdown, being so bad
that I could not work tor tour months.
Nothing did me any good until a friend
advised CLEMENTS TONIC. From the
first bottle I felt improved and was soon
quite myself again, thanks solely to
CLEMENTS TONIC.
After my experience with CLEMENTS
TONIC, I can say without hesitation that
it is a great thing for the man at the w T heel,
particularly under trying conditions. I have
found it a great thing to steady the nerves,
strengthen the tissues and stop fatigue on
a long trying car run.”
“BILL” FITZSIMMONDS, Mildura.


flp
M
€
DynamicBo Unit,
only £lO/10/-
Mow yon
can have a Magna vox
Dynamic Power Speaker
for your A. C. set. The same
speaker that is used as built-
in equipment by many set
manufacturers. If you use
a power tube you need this
power speaker to get the
finest reception Now dem-
onstrating.
FIT A UNIT IN
YOUR PRESENT
CABINET
IMPROVE AN OLD SET-
PERFECT THE NEW.
Aristocrat
£lB/10/-
ASK YOUR NEAREST
RADIO DEALER TO
DEMONSTRATE.
Australian Patent
No. 7225.
V
GRASP THE SHADOW ERE THE SUBSTANCE FADE
PIECE ME TOGETHER AND YOUR FORTUNE’S MADE.
TALE OF A LUCKY BLACK CAT—In Many Paris—Part One
w /v&
jP
z
°E
«s (S .
i
o
NO AL
*PX
m
TH
DNI
TA
ba
SE
0
an
a 9 *
'l3d
t*
Behold me, King of the Luck Bringers! Mind
you, I’m not an ordinary Tom Cat that stays
out all night, so my scattered parts cannot be
attributed to the careful aim of an annoyed
citizen resenting a courtship with Tabby on
the Tiles. Among my family inheritance is
a trick of being able to pull myself to_ pieces
at a moment’s notice, without disturbing my
genius for luck-bringing. Indeed, the person
who Can put me together again has all the
luck. I have specially offered my services to
the N.S.W. Fire Brigades Art Union to test the
skill of the good people to whom I have
brought fortune and good luck for several
years.
There is money in this. In fact, there Is a
fortune. All you have to do Is to piece me
together so as to form a complete picture.
First send an application and enclose 5/
for a book of 6 tickets. This book
of tickets will be sent to you, together
with a leaflet containing my scattered parts,
looking just like the parts that appear in
this advertisement. You can sell or keep the
book of tickets, making a shilling on the
transaction. Or you can sell five and keep
one. The tickets are for the N.S.W. Fire
Brigades Art Union for £lO,OOO in prizes, the,
first prize being a Solid Gold Helmet valued
at £3OOO. the largest prize for a shilling ever
offered in Australia. You may win this.
Now comes your next piece of good fortune.
There will be a special distribution of £5O in
prizes among those who send back the lucky
black cat pieced together correctly. The
amount will be distributed among those who
give the correct solution—First Prize £25,
Second Prize £lO, Third Prize £2, three
consolation prizes of £l, ten consolation
Th' W,™ Live, o, „ Cat in 23 Keen. ■»!“», tl VESmSS. P, ‘" !
Register your name at once. In addition, if you retain the 6th ticket, you may win
the £3OOO prize, or any of the others. For six tickets you may win prizes valued at
over £5OOO, 'ncluding a casket of diamonds, a diamond tiara, and seven motor cars.
The closing date for the Lucky Black Cat Competition is Saturday, March 30, 1929.
It is the easiest piece of luck I have ever offered, and I have been in the luck
business since Noah let me and Tabitha out of the Ark.
Address all applications, with 5/ enclosed, to J. J. Neville, Hon. Secretary, Fire
Brigades Headquarters, 213 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES FIRE BRIGADES’ ART UNION
FOR HOSPITALS, AMBULANCES, AND CHARITY,
(Sanctioned by the Attorney-General)
£lO,OOO in Prizes. The most stupendous Prize List ever drawn up. Tickets: One
Shilling.
Six Tickets, 5/; Twelve Tickets. 10/; Twenty-five Tickets, £l.
A Ticket a Day fWus Misfortune Away!
Send at once. State whether Mr.. Mrs., or Miss. Enclosed stamped envelope
for result slip. Art Union Drawn on June 1, 1929.
J. J. NEVILLE, Hon. Secretary.
Fire Brigades Headquarters, 213 Castlereagh-strcet. Sydney. N.S.W.
F
uhe hand that holds
the' VENUS"
views the World
The first rough suggestion—the skilful
and accurate working out, the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive effort, call for the use of VENfJS
PENCILS. Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the design of a simple household
article, the pencil is the first requirement: the
VENUS the first pencil.
Ƒ
17 Blacklead Degrees 68-9 H sd. each -4/9 per dozen, Super Copying (Medium & Hard) 6d
each - 5/9 per dozen, Venus Copying (Medium & Hard) 4d. each 3/9 per dozen.
Pen and Picture
Shadow Shows
“The Haunted
House” (War-
ner Bros.) con-
cerns a dying
millionaire who
leaves a resi-
dence which no-
body is to enter
and distributes
amongst his relatives envelopes which they
are not to open and of course they do
open them and it turns out that there are
500,000 dollars hidden in the house they are
not to enter and so they all repair there
and start looking for the treasure and in-
stead they meet an insane caretaker and a
mysterious girl who wanders about in the
draughts and a transparent robe with a
candle singing “Just a Song at Twilight”
pursued by a lunatic doctor who sprays the
air with insectibane and curses while a
second girl hammers on the door of a padded
cell and a murderer escapes from a strait
jacket and bites the ear off the imbecile care-
taker at the moment a couple of chauffeurs
are being smothered in a corner and just as
things threaten to get willing the millionaire
puts in an appearance and explains that it
was all a test to sec which of his relations
really loved him and he is satisfied that
there is only one and that one is the hero
so the girl is released from the padded cell
and there is a marriage and if anybody
objects that there are no stops in the above
neither are there any in the picture.
The limitations of the screen are well
exemplified in “The Constant Nymph”
(Gainsborough), a British picture. Anybody
who has read the book has got from the
mere printed word a collection of memorable
portraits. Sanger, the gross, dazzling, lov-
MABEL POULTON.
able Sanger;
hi s wonder-
fully diversi-
fied children,
of the earth,
earthy - also
of the heavens,
heavenly; the
cloddish Flor-
ence, the be-
wildered jani-
tor of the
brilliant and
inealeu 1 a b 1 e
Tessa; the
wayward
Lewis Dodd,
and the rest
of them. In
the book these
people live.
You can see
them, feel
them, hear
th e pi. The
music they
love rings in
your ears; you
can smell, the flowers in their Swiss pas-
tures. In the picture they are as dead as
mutton despite the fact that they get up
and sit down, open and shut doors, and run
in and out of houses. They are all there,
apparently, in the body. But you don’t
learn what they are thinking or feeling.
All you know is what they are doing —and
in the book what they do doesn’t really
matter worth tuppence. Another sad de-
ficiency of the picture is Tessa. In the
book the love of Todd for a girl immature
in years but extraordinarily mature in in-
tellect is not in the least offensive. In the
pictured version what you get is a simple
schoolgirl (Mabel Poulton) being run away
with by a man old enough to be her father.
The spectacle is shocking, when a written
description of it is not, simply because the
screen Tessa is Tessa with the mind omitted.
Yet as a picture this is quite a good one.
It is only comparison with the novel that
humbles it.
Clyde Cook and Louise Fazenda are the
partners to the conspiracy for shaking laughs
out of audiences called “Five and Ten Cent
Annie” (Warner Bros.). Cook or his
producer is wonderfully fertile in the inven-
tion of ludicrous situations, and there are
almost sufficient in the present issue to
supply a Federal session at Canberra.
The reformers who declaim against the
immorality of American films are, in present
writer’s opinion, either liars, conscious or
unconscious, or people who never go to the
pictures. The outstanding feature about
Hollywood's endless outpourings, as any in-
quirer can discover for himself by regularly
perusing this column, is their monotonous
correctness. Vice may have its fling, but it
invariably finishes in the^gutter; it is Virtue
who marries the rising young inventor. The
Casanovas of the screen never survive into
a hale old age to write their deplorable
memoirs. They either get knocked on the
head by a police patrol or are saved by a
mother’s love before they have even started
on their first adventure. The present critic
is so accustomed to the procession of cellu-
loid angels that “Outcast” (First National),
in which the Devil flourishes his tail and
horns without the shadow of an apology, left
him, metaphorically speaking, breathless.
“Outcast” is the story of a courtesan’s strug-
gles to retain the affections of a rich patron.
By all the rules of the game, virtue in film
society being synonymous with respectability,
she should drown herself or pine away with
galloping consumption. Instead, she defeats
the machinations of a designing married
woman, and keeps her lover, if not for ever,
at least until the end of the picture. Pos-
sibly the producers knew they were doing
something original, or possibly they were
only straining after a happy ending. How-
ever, they made an interesting picture. Cor-
inne Griffiths presents a sweetly-sentimental
Magdalen, hardly distinguishable from the
usual heroine. Edmund Lowe plays oppo-
site her—or, at least, he stands opposite her.
He is painfully wooden.
The Palette
The annual aestivation of Melbourne
artists ended with an exhibition of oils and
water-colors by Aileen Dent at the Athen-
aeum. The most important picture is a
portrait of ex-Premier John Allan. It is
a careful piece of Work, but John looks as
if he were made-up for a pageant of himself
some 10 or 15 years ago. Miss Dent’s water-
colors are better than her oils, and the best
of them are those in which she gives a feel-
ing for romantic atmosphere free vein.
“Hamer”: Llewellyn Jones, who died in
Sydney last year, was an artist whose art,
although appreciated by the few acquainted
with it, never fully kept him; he worked
most 91 his time as an accountant. The
Public Trustee was glad to take an offer
for the unsold Jones pictures as a job lot.
One of the paintings thus acquired has been
taken to England, where it has been highly
praised by men who are reputed competent
critics. Now the rest may be sent across
for exhibition and sale.
With the idea of finding out what ore
there is in the mine of Australian mural
painting and other design, the Society of
Artists, Sydney, is sponsoring an exhibition
which will open at the David Jones Gallery
on May 0. Oils are banned on the ground
that they are the medium for the painting
of easel pictures. Basil Burdett, of the
Macquarie Galleries, is the organiser, and
the committee is looking for work “capable
of adorning the walls of private or public
buildings, and drawings showing, above all,
a capacity for design.” Attempts are being
made to get exhibits from all parts of Aus-
tralia, and the scheme deserves enthusiastic
encouragement, if only because pure design
scarcely ever gets a helping hand.
The Inky Way
“D. Empson”: E. H. Irving, editor of
the Ivalgoorlie Miner, died in harness last
week; and to old-timers Hanuan-street, in
which his tall form has been a familiar
sight for 30-odd years, will never seem
quite the same again. There never was a
kindlier man or a more considerate editor.
He was a son of the late Prof. Irving of
Melbourne Uni., and was a Vic. dominie
before he took to journalism. His grand-
father was that Edward Irving who intro-
duced Jane Welsh to Carlyle (he was Jane’s
tutor and would have married her if another
miss had set him free), and became the
most famous London preacher of his day
and the founder of a sect.
“Scribbler”: Tell “Lalage” (B. 27/2/’29)
that “Henry Handel” Richardson returned
to Australia two years after “The Fortunes
of Richard Mahony” had been published. She
doubtless collected material, but it went into
“The Way Home” and “Ultima Thule.”
“Kewpie”: Hugh C. Jenkins, who has
succeeded Francis Utting (now in Sydney)
as editor of the Wanganui Chronicle, has
had a swift rise to the editorial chair of one
of M.L.’s most important newspapers. He
has been in daily journalism for a matter
of months; he joined the Dominion as edi-
torial writer in the middle of last year.
Before that he controlled a lawbook business
and ran a fortnightly law journal.
“Lao-dah”: Did ever a newspaper office
suffer a queerer resurrection than the old
Melbourne Argus building? Portion of the
stonework and other material were pur-
chased by a farmer with a passion for city
speculation, and out of them a modern bun-
galow was built in one of the suburbs. The
fence is constructed of the original stair
railings over which generations of Inkv
Wayfarers have rubbed their finders.
LILLIAS GORDON,
who pushes a clever
pen for the Adelaide
ADVERTISER; her
weekly letter is one
of the paper’s most
entertaining features.
She has also been a
BULLETIN contributor.
“Nakhoda”: Repre-
sentatives of Austra-
lian authors met M. P.
Hansen, Vic. Director
of Education, the
other day and told him
that it was a fair
thing for his depart-
ment to pay for the
works of local writers
that it reprints in its
school publication.
Hansen showed no
sympathy for their
claim, though if they
had been galvanised-
iron merchants he
would not have told
them that he ought to
have their products
free for roofing school-
houses. Local heads
of departments and
politicians never did
show much interest in
the literary industry,
whose vote is negli-
gible. During Authors
and Artists’ Week
they were conspicuous
by their absence,
though when a new
shrine for American
pictures was opened in
Melbourne they rolled
up in squadrons.
Lao-dah : .Col. Tom White’s “Guests
of the Unspeakable,” that admirably-told tale
of_ an Australian’s adventures in Turkish
prisons, was well received in England and
the Empire generally, and one would have
thought it would have appealed to Ameri-
cans. But when it was offered to U.S. pub-
lishers it was turned down because it was
too British in tone.” The gentlemen per-
haps believe that Uncle Sam not only won
the war in Europe, but conducted the cam-
paigns in Palestine and Mesopotamia.


CHRYSLER
Demanded every whereJor superior
that Original Style and
Sparkling Performance
give
To-day’s stimulus to
produce new motor-
car style and perform-
ance is, in the truest
sense, a tribute to Chrysler.
The quickening of interest in
automobile appearance and
action dates back to five years
ago—to the introduction of the
first Chrysler, which has ever
since served as a pattern to im-
prove the standards of an
industry.
Chrysler—with the new style
that re-styles*all motor-cars —
is to-day more than ever the
leader of the industry.
The new Chryslers are not only
individual and unique—they
are original.
They are graceful and
pleasing—the natural
development of the
principle of dynamic
symmetry instituted in the first
Chrysler—providing ample
room and comfort without
oversize and bulk.
In power, acceleration, safety
and ease of control, to-day’s
Chryslers excel even the
earlier Chryslers. The years
have proved the dependability
and long life which Chrysler
Standardised Quality gives.
Not even for a great deal more
cam you equal elsewhere the
things the new Chryslers give.
Chrysler’s largest production
is taxed to supply the universal
demand for Chrysler’s
superior value.
For twenty years designers
have fretted over the clumsi-
ness of Radiators. Until
Chrysler showed the way l
wm
m
New sweep and ajrve of the
rear deck of roadster and
coupe is a distinctive feature
of the new Chrysler body
style.
Chrysler “arched - window”
silhouette for closed models
gives a particularly pleasing
effect inside and outside the
car.
Note the new graceful cap,
slender - profile chromium - plated
radiator, bowl-shaped lamps, and
"air-wing” fenders.
r
m
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Larke, Neave & Carter, Ltd., William Street, Sydney.
Vic.: Collins Motors Tty., Ltd., Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
South Aus.: 0. T. Rodda Motors, Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide
West Aus.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth .
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, W ellington.
Hew Guinea: W. R. Carpenter & Co., Ltd., Rabaul.
C 104.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia, Limited.
HEAD OFFICE, “FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,” 129
PITT STREET, SYDNEY, incorporated and carrying on
business since the year 1912, and with branch offices in the
States of Victoria, South Australia and Queensland, desires to
give notice that it has NO CONNECTION WHATSOEVER
with the Company recently registered and carrying on business
under the name of “Federal Mutual Finance and Securities,
Limited,” 51-53 William Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
For They are Jolly Good Fellows..
RESOTS
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S
SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
A nd so say all of us.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
tl
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The Rosehill course was the scene of some
capital racing on Saturday, and the club’s
meeting next Saturday, with Limerick, Wina-
lot, Jocelyn and co. down to meet at w.f.a.
and many Doncaster and Sydney Cup can-
didates engaged in handicaps, should be
more interesting still. The successes of the
two-year-olds Pentheus (5 to 4) and Violin
Solo (6 to 4), and of Rionscup (5 to 2) in
the second division of the Highweight Han-
dicap, were very unpalatable to the book-
makers, but Greencorn (10 to 1) and
Trahere (20 to 1) came to their rescue in
the Trial Stakes divisions; Trahere yielded
a div. of £ll 14s. 6d. on the 10s. tote.
Pentheus is a fine stamp of a colt by
Rossendale—Cereica, and looks more like a
Derby hope than any youngster that has
shown form in Sydney this season. Rionscup’s
party are very pleased with the French
horse’s showing, but the horses he defeated
are not much’good ; Nolens Volens and Bren-
don, who followed him home, were well-
beaten by moderates in races for which they
were saddled up again.
In the absence of Lord Kennaquhair. Gesto
was favorite (at 3 to 1) for the Club Handi-
cap, but his running did not suggest that he
will endanger Strephon’s supremacy in the
A.J.C. St. Leger. Third was the best he could
do, and he was fading at the finish of ten fur-
longs, run in 2min. Of sec. Patadawn (7 to
2), wisely kept for a late run by the younger
Munro, got the better of an exciting tussle
with Lovebox (9 to 2), of whom too much
use has been made in recent races. Pata-
dawn’s party deserved the change of fortune
after five consecutive seconds, and he must be
a very hardy three-year-old (he is by Ivil-
broney—Bon Chic) to stand up so well to all
the racing he has had since Christmas.
Amusement (5 to 2). who seems to have
become quite trustworthy since he entered
Price’s stable, opened at 7 to 4 for the Rydal-
mere Mile, but eased to 5 to 2 with the
backing of Baverwrack from fives (sevens one
bookmaker called) to threes. The pair came
right away from the rest in the last half-
furlong and their numbers went up together.
Baverwrack was badly placed in the early
part and his late run was very impressive.
This useful son of Baverstock, sire of so
many useful horses, should win a good race
at Easter.
* * * *
For Rosehill on Saturday:—
Railway Handicap: Karuma; next,
Aorangi.
Rawson Stakes : Limerick; next, Winalot.
Autumn Handicap: Lord Kennaquhair;
next, Amusement.
Three- and Four-year-old Handicap : Sion ;
next, Golden Music.
Parramatta Mile: Baverwrack; next,
Colored.
* * * *
Aussie has caught it hot from the A.J.C.
handicapper for his perhaps lucky defeat of
Limerick in Maoriland; he has been given
9st. 91b. in the Doncaster Handicap. Mol-
lison has 9st. 31b.; Ramulus, Bst. 121 b.;
Sion, Bst. 111 b.; Aorangi, Bst. 91b.; Karuma,
Bst. 41b.; Loquacious, Bst.; Kitty Padding-
ton, 7st. 131 b.; Paddi Eve, 7st. 121 b.; Gol-
den Music, 7st. 111 b.; Gesto, 7st. 111 b.;
Habashon, 7st. 101 b.; Nut Cup, 7st. 101 b.;
and John Buchan, 7st. 31b.
Gothic gets 9st. 131 b. in the Sydney Cup
and Strephon Bst. 131 b. Sol Green, who
has taken umbrage at something or other,
is advertising all his horses in training,
except Gothic, for sale, and says if lie
doesn’t sell Strephon that colt won’t start
in the Sydney Cup. Winalot (9st. 81b.),
Jocelyn (9st.), Ttionscup (Sst. 101 b.), Fon-
dant (Bst. 51b.), Loquacious (7st. 121 b.),
Paddi Eve (7st. 101 b.), Naos (7st. 71b.),
Octember (7st. 61b.), Amusement (7st. 51b.),
Crucis (7st. 51b.), Lord Kennaquhair (7st.
51b.) and Woolita (6st. 121 b.) have already
been mentioned in the discussions, as also
have the Doncaster candidates referred to.
This Page at present likes Karuma and
Lord Kennaquhair or Loquacious.
* * * *
. Small as the fields were in a number of
races, the Newmarket-Australian Cup meet-
ing was memorable for the high quality of
some of the horses and for thrilling finishes.
Barely has there been a finer struggle for
the Australian Cup than Some Quality (7
tol) Kidaides (25 to 1) and
Octember (7 to 1) provided
over the Inst furlong; little
Some Quality defeated her
fellow-South Australian by
a neck, with the big Sydney
horse half a head away.
And the contest between
Gothic and Mollison for the
C. M. Lloyd Stakes, which
resulted in a dead-heat, was
worth going many miles to
see. Afterwards excuses
were made for Gothic, but
to this Page he seemed to
have every chance, and it
was a sterling performance
for the tliree-year-old to
break even with him at a
difference of 121 b. over his
favorite distance. There
was no loafing on the jour-
ney ; the mile was run, in
lmin. 37-£sec.
f • • •
Sol Green’s other great
horse, Strephon, was, how-
ever, the star performer of
the meeting, for as well as
taking the St. Leger in re-
cord time he was successful
on the third day in the Gov-
ernor's Plate, and on tlie
fourth day in the King’s
Plate. Maple was his soli-
tary opponent in the Gover-
nor’s Plate; on Saturday he
had Black Duchess as well
as the Perth mare to dispose
of. Black Duchess tried to
steal the race, but she is no
two-miler, and the chestnut
colt had her settled a fur-
long and a half from home,
going on to win as he liked
in 3min. 25Jsec. for the two
miles. Maple broke down.
Scobie had a very good meeting. In the
Gibson Carmichael Stakes Carradale (6 to
1), trained by him for V.R.C. chairman
Mackinnon, drew right away from his oppo-
nents, Lineage (5 to 1) and Amour Propre
(12 to 1) being the nearest to him when the
judge had to do his duty. By Caravel —
Vicella is Carradale, and he will be heard
of again. Spanish Galleon is another good
one sired by Caravel, whose progeny have
come into the boom.
There was a first-class field of sprinters
for the Leonard Stakes, and Greenline, his
9st. 131 b. notwithstanding, gave the Flem-
ington crowd a taste of his quality. He
was favorite at 3 to 1. Figure (5 to 1), who
dashed from the rails to the outside as soon
as the barrier lifted, was the early leader,
but Greenline headed her a furlong from
home and, finishing strongly, beat the un-
lucky filly by lengths, Abbot’s Lad being
third. And he ran the six furlongs in lmin.
ll|sec.
Mondiaga, who, after failing in the Aus-
tralian Cup, had taken the Autumn Handi-
cap on the third day, w r as favorite, at sto 2,
for the Northcote Handicap, but the. weight
settled him. Balmerino (12 to 1) finished in
brilliant fashion to beat Prince Don —another
unlucky customer —by half a head, with
Naos a length and a half away third. Bal-
merino had run a poor third in the St.
Leger, but there was no Strephon in the
field he beat. His time, 2min. 30sec., is only
half a second worse than Gothic’s Austra-
lasian record for a mile and a half.
A. T. Craig’s Valais colt Gilt Edge, who
had dead-heated with Pecunia in the Bourke
Handicap, was favorite for the Farewell
Handicap, and he was another favorite who
disappointed. Durward (4 to 1) won on the
bit from Cheosan and Craig’s colt. Scanlon,
a jockey with brains, rode Durward, who
is a chestnut gelding by Cyklon—lsa, trained
by veteran Ferguson. And so a very success-
ful round came to a conclusion.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
At Melbourne Stadium on Saturday night,
only a handful of spectators was present
to follow the fortunes of Filipino Kid Along
(Bst. 13J1b.) and Norman Gillespie (9st.
311 b.) in their 15-round engagement. The
lad from the Orient, making his first appear-
ance in an Australian ring, displayed the
tear-in tactics characteristic of his race, and
in the first round had Norman flurried with
his aggressiveness. But when the paleface
found his feet there was only one in it. The
Kid made a stand in the third round and
with vicious right swings attempted to turn
the tide. The fourth was a torrid term for the
islander, and a succession of drives to the
body had him ripe for a right to the jaw
that spilled him for much longer than the
requisite lOsec.
A BRAND FROM THE BURNING.
ST. PETER: “Surely you’re in the wrong lift; your papers
say you were drowned on a fishing trip.”
NEW ARRIVAL: “Yes, but it was my first one, so I never
got a chance to lie about it later.”
Three factors in the make-up of a suc-
cessful boxer are speed, cleverness and pluck.
Jack Sparr, the American welter, doesn’t ex-
hibit the first two to any marked degree, but
he has more than his share of the last. At
Sydney Stadium on Saturday night against
Jack Carroll, to -whom he lost on points at
the end of fifteen rounds, Sparr took enough
punishment to have made the average pug
sky the wipe long before. Carroll’s sharp-
shooting left was never out of Sparr’s face,
while swiftly following rights to body and
jaw rocked the game fellow time and again.
Sparr’s best punch was a weighty right drive
to the body. Carroll scaled lOst. 61b., and
Sparr lOst. 3^lb.
The Ins and Outs
The fifth Test, which opened at Melbourne
on Friday, saw the Englishmen on Saturday
evening in the comfortable position of having
485 runs up for the loss of 9 wickets. The
visitors adopted their usual tactics of ca’
canny, and the rate of scoring was deadly.
240 runs accumulating on the first day and
five more on the second. The Englishmen
took the field without Chapman, White cap-
taining the side, while Tyldesley and Ley-
land came into the team. The outstanding
feature of the innings was 142 by Hobbs,
who, playing in what is probably his last
Test, gave a finished if leisurely display.
Hendren also did well; he batted vigor-
ously in the earlier part of his innings, but
slowed up considerably at the end, and was
dismissed for 95. The Yorkshire left-hander,
Leyland, played a nice shot for 110 n. 0., and
thus joined ' the small contingent of play-
ers who have reached three figures in their
first Test game. Tyldesley again disap-
pointed, and must be written down the fail-
ure of the tour. The Australian fielding
was very patchy, Ilobbs being missed in
the slips when 77, and other chances being
refused. An injury to Grimmctt on Friday
was a big handicap, for he was unable to
turn out on Saturday. Wall again did well,
his figures reading 3 for 111. Hornibrook
was fairly successful, taking 3 for 129.
Ryder also had some success, bagging a
couple of wickets, including that of Ilobbs,
for 29.
The innings closed on Monday at 519, Ley-
land going to a catch by Fairfax off Oxen-
ham for 137. Woodfull and Jackson gave
Australia a fair start; Jackson left at 04,
run out for 30.
j{ t jJi »!t *l*
“Sucker”; Recent Bulletin references to
the old English custom of betting on cricket
matches reminds me of the days whtjn the
shed versus district cricket match was the
event of the year in outback Queensland.
First there was the Calcutta for tin* highest
score. When a man was reaching a high
figure he’d come out to change his bat or
something. That gave him a chance to con-
fer with his purchaser and put another
couple of pounds on his cut. Then there
were the doubles, highest scorer on each
side, which offered a multitude of means of
getting round, two highest irrespective' of
side, highest in first innings, highest, any
way at all. Straightout bettors were busy
all the time on the highest scorer, and other
fellows used to make a standing book, laying
odds that each man in the team wouldn’t
make a stated number.
* * * *
“W. G. Snort”: The cables have been
booming lately with the story of a woman
in England who has for years been posing
successfully as a man under all sorts of. cir-
cumstances winch afforded opportunities for
bowling her out. Cricketers will note with
interest that there was only one of the many
masculine attitudes which she adopted in
which she had to hedge. She joined a cricket
club and played in a dozen matches with
apparently some success. She found it neces-
sary, however, to ask the skipper for tin 1
wicket-keeper’s possie, and this was granted
on her representation that war wounds
incapacitated her in the matter of throwing
in from the field. That is where your mas-
culine female always gets caught. The only
thing she can give the chuck to convincingly
is the mere male, as King Solomon and
Mark Twain, to quote only two authorities,
have noted.
4 ‘ *
“Frescott”; In reply to the annual cadge
for funds, a North Queensland cricket club
secretary received the following: Exkuse me
writing in pen and ink, as I carn’t find me
pencil in anser to your welcome letter mak-
ing me a vice presadint of your club. I will
have to decline the possition as the missis
says I have quite enuf vice in me now with-
out being made a presadint of it and that a
lot of good presadints in other countries get
killed and a vice presadint would stand no
chance at all in this one. P.S. —I have put
in a ten-bob note to becom a member of your
klub. PP.S. —On second thorts you had
better put me down as an animos Donah.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”; The craze for “dis-
covering” new bowling talent and dragging
it from the country to the city is extending;
one at least of the grade clubs has appointed
a sub-committee to consider the capabilities
of promising country players, and means of
securing employment for those considered
suitable. This phase of professionalism has
loyal and enthusiastic support from the club
members, amongst those who have shown an
eagerness to help being a garbage contractor.
He has expressed his willingness to find a
permanent position on one of his carts for a
newcomer, mentioning particularly the fact
that no work is required on Saturday.
* * * *
“Perk”: The N.S.W.' averages for the
Sheffield Shield series show Bradman at
the head of the batting with an aggregate
of 893, and an average of 148.83 for six com-
pleted innings. Of the really, truly bowlers,
Hooker comes out best with 25 wickets aver-
aging 21.4. The most useful man on the side
seems to be Fairfax, who averaged 35.2 with
the bat and took 20 wickets for 27.35 runs
each. He gives promise of developing into an
Australian all-rounder. Another new-comer
to the big stuff is the Randwick left-hander,
Marks. His three innings yielded an average
of 61.3, and the way he batted against such
bowlers as Grimmett and Wall in the last
game against South Australia suggests that
Warren Bardsley’s successor is in sight—
though there is more of Vernon Ransford
than Bardsley about his way of shaping.
(Continued on page Jjl.)
THE BARRACKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We’re patrons of sport,
Spectators whose forte
Is loudly and blithely emitting
Satirical quips
On the fieldsman who slips
Or the batsman who’s chary of hitting.
Whate’er we detect
That isn’t correct
(By our standards) we stridently stab it,
And the worst thing of all
To fill us with gall
Is giving a lightning-deliv’rer the ball
To scatter the stumps of a rabbit.
’Tis little we mind
If our side is behind
Or scoring a win.in a canter;
Of venom there’s none
In our spirited fun,
No sting in our jocular banter.
Any comment that’s apt
With a laugh will be capped
If with vigor sufficient you blab it;
But a joke it’s far past
When a bowler who’s fast
Is told to spreadeagle the batsman who’s last,
To put on the pot of a rabbit.
“Churls,” “hoodlums”—such gibes
We get from the scribes
Who make cricket ethics their biz,
To Hell with their howls!
Can we help having bowels
Or knowing what chivalry is?
To genial chaff
That raises a laugh
We stick as a general habit.
But, nevertheless, *
There are times, I confess,
When our tempers are taxed by the strain
and the stress
Of cruelty carried to savage excess,
E.q., when a skipper puts on an express
To skittle the sticks of a rabbit.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Wanderings in Wild Australia
By Sir BALDWIN SPENCEII.
K.C.M.G., F.U.S., author of “The
Arunta,” “Across Australia,” etc.
Two vols. Illustrated. 425. net.
Dr. A. C. Haddon, in Nature. —“No one has
done more valuable work in elucidating the
ethnography of the aborigines of Australia than
Sir Baldwin Spencer.... The reader of the
book will get, as he cannot obtain anywhere
else, a picturesque but scientific account of the
daily life, social organisation, ceremonial life,
magic, religion, death, burial and mourning of
various tribes; nor are the objects they make
and the method of their manufacture neglected.”
Letters of the Empress Frederick
Edited by the Right Hon. SIR
FREDERICK PONSONBY.
G.C.8., G.C.V.O. Illustrated. Tenth
thousand. 255. net.
NEW NOVELS.
Expiation
By the Author of “Elizabeth and
II or German Garden.”
[Empire Library.
A novel of London suburban life, largely con-
cerned with the prosperous Bott family and
their attitude towards the transgressor when
Milly Bott's unlawful love-story is disclosed.
The Silver Thorn
A Book of Stories. By HUGH
WALPOLE. Eleventh thousand.
[Dominions Edition.
What is Love?
By E. M. DELAFIELD. Eighth
thousand.
[Empire Library.
Portrait in a Mirror
By CHARLES MORGAN. Author
of “My Name Is Legion.”
[Empire Library.
The Times.—“ The quiet intensity of this
novel and the unstrained beauty of its style
make the reading of it a rich experience.”
Morning Post. —“A very fine book, polished,
supple and serious.”
To b o Obtained from ail
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
A FINE PIECE OF ARTISTIC PLAITING
G
THE “APEX” WHIP
This beautiful example of Australian
craftsmanship is carried out in two colors,
with a neat swastika design on both handle
and thong. The thong is Bft. long, 20-
plait, with lifelike fall.
PRICE, 78,6 COMPLETE.
For 2/6 extra we will plait up to four
initials in the handle.
K’BURRA STOCKWHIPS
FOR EVERYDAY HARD WEAR
Kangaroo
Thongs. 6ft.
12-plait 18/6
16-plait 21/6
20-plait 26/6
HANDLES TO MATCH.
19/-; 32-plait, 22/
right through
plaited belly.
7ft.
21/- ,
24/6
30/-
16-plait,
Loaded for
more.
with inside
Bft. 9ft.
23/6 27/6
27/6 31/6
33/6 38/6
17/-; 24-plait,
Oft. thongs, 1/6
FREIGHT FREE FOR CASII.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, LTD., 395 George St., Sydney.
Weak and depressed,
Assailed by stomach ills
Recruit your strength
By taking
F
I
TWO AT NIGHT
PUT YOU RIGHT
Do you feel weak, languid, despond-
ent, thoroughly out-of-sorts and fit
for nothing ? Get a box of Cockle’s
Pills. As a tonic restorative they are
simply wonderful. Take two pills at
bedtime and in the morning you will
wake up keen for breakfast, with a
clear head, cheery spirits and more
life and energy than you have had
for a long time. Be sure to try them.
Small pill, easy to take. Of all
chemists and stores 1/6 a box.
JAMES COCKLE & CO., LTD., LONDON.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
The
&
mm
Everybody
needs a Light
(Special Trade
terms)
Ibe Great
Match
Substitute
POST FREI
2s.
WIOR’S AGENCY, BRISBANE
p c , 0 h 1915 (Dept 3)
Grow New Hair
in 30 days
Six out of eight are bald or grey at 40, yet very
few need be. The hair roots can be stimulated
to new life very quickly by a new scalp-invigorat-
ing preparation known as “Vi-Glo.” Thus acts on
the growth and color cells much as rain acts on a
parched plant. So long as the hair roots and color
glands are not dead (and they rarely die), Vi-
Glo” will show remarkable results, growing new',
youthful hair and restoring color to fading hair. Ask
your chemist for a 8/- package of “Vi-Glo to-day,
or send 3/4 for outfit to Vi-glorient Co., Kembla
Building, Sydney. Satisfaction guaranteed.
“Your Food has
been the turning
point to my baby”
so says a Victorian mother.
Another mother says:
“Baby weighed only 3£ lbs.
when a fortnight old. We tried
several foods - then we dis-
covered ‘Benger’s.' Baby
Eenger’s without trouble, one
gained 12 ozs. the first week
She is now 8 months old, and
weighs 16 lbs. a happy, plump,
and healthy little girl.”
Food
Keg. Tba.dk mark.
Send for Benner's Booklet , post fret,
BENGER'S FOOD Ltd..
350, George Street, SYDNEY.
HUSBANDS—GiIt-Edged and Otherwise
Mortimer is nourishing a mammoth
of a brain,
Light and soppy Literature can
make him wince with pain,
Vast pendantic treatises as flavour-
less as bran
Are the fitting mental food for
every Thinking Man.
r * B -
M n
h:
AB DI)tLA
■y
B»*>TgMAH •
WPWL
THE BRAINY HUSBAND
Cynthia calmly contemplates his
bleak balloon-like skull,
“ Dear old Morty,” run her thoughts,
“so earnest and so dull!
With each tome he reads aloud he
grows a trifle duller,
Still —he has one bright idea —he
* uplifts ’ on ABDULLA ! ”
—I" R, rfoLittSi
(\BDULLS superb CIGARETTES
TURKISH EGYPTIAN VIRGINIA


COMMONWEALTH LOAN
INTEREST 5& PER CENT. FOR 10 YEARS.
You can invest in nothing sounder than Commonwealth Loans; both principal and interest are absolutely secure.
You can invest in nothing more convenient, as—
The investment can be sold at any time on the Stock Exchange.
A holder of Stock may have his interest forwarded to him regularly each half-year, or paid into his Bank Account.
A Bond holder may cash his half-yearly coupon at any Bank or State Savings Bank in the Commonwealth.
A Bond holder may ask his banker to hold the Bonds and collect the interest for him.
Stock and Bond holders removing to another State may have their Stock or Bonds transferred to that State.
INTEREST IS FREE OF STATE INCOME TAX.
Full particulars from—
BANKS, SAVINGS BANKS, MONEY ORDER POST OFFICES and MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES.
Commonwealth Treasury, EARLE PAGE,
Canberra. Treasurer.
The Ins and Outs
The Englishmen drew their match against
Victoria, completing their first innings at
303 and following on. Their second try
yielded 308 runs for 3 wickets, Jardine scor-
ing 115, bis sixth century of the tour. The
chief interest of the match for Australians
was the debut in first-class cricket of
a new fast bowler, Alexander, who took 6
for 208 in the match.
* * * *
“C. Bumpkin”: What happened in Mel-
bourne was that modern cricket for once in
a way was revealed for what it is—a his-
trionjc performance which a few humorless
people take seriously. After Victoria had
made an enormous score and still had a
wicket to fall, Larwood, esteemed England’s
most dangerous bowler, was put on to get
rid of Ironmonger, regarded as Australia’s
most insignificant batsman. The spectacle of a
whale being sooled on to catch a minnow
tickled the crowd, which roared good-humor-
edly. Having swallowed the pap handed out
by a lot of hysterical newspapers that Test
cricketers are the most important people in
the British Empire, the Englishmen took
what was applause for a good vaudeville turn
as an affront to the dignity of their profes-
sion, so they sat down and refused to go on
playing. The spectacle of a thoroughly
humorless person in a domic situation always
stirs the ribaldry of an audience, and the
crowd laughed louder than ever. As the
Englishmen still refused to see the joke,
Ryder had no option but to ring the curtain
down. If a similar low-comedy turn fetched
a similar response from a Tivoli audience the
management would feel obliged to double the
principals’ salaries.
* * * >fc
“Bramall Lane”: In a horrified reference
to the Larwood incident one of the big Lon-
don journals alleged that such happenings
are impossible at Lords or the Oval. Maybe.
But I’ll guarantee that Old Trafford, Bramall
Lane, Headingley or Trent Bridge, to name
four grounds familiar to my callow youth,
have staged many an uproar like that at
Melbourne, and many much worse. A recent
example was the hooting of Armstrong’s men
by the Manchester mob at Old Trafford in
1921, when the big Victorian pointed out to
the English skipper, Tennyson, that he had
left the closing of his innings until too late.
* * > * *
“Hothain”: 11. Alexander, the young fast
bowler who made such an impression for Vic-
toria against Chapman’s lads, plays with
Essendon, and got a place in the Victorian
second eleven which visited Sydney a few
weeks ago. He did nothing much there, but
his first Sheffield Shield game was most
promising Genuinely fast, he can make
the ball get up in disturbing fashion, and
none of the visitors, even Hammond, were
at home with him in the first innings. He is
a bit erratic, but there is no doubt about
the devil in his deliveries. Powerfully built,
he showed that he can keep the pace up all
day. Some objection was taken by the Eng-
lishmen to his run after delivery as tending
to injure the pitch, but that is a charge
brought against many bowlers, including
Maurice Tate. Judging by the English
batting in the second innings, the injury
was mostly imagination, as the score of
308 for 3 wickets indicates.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: There is trouble brewing be-
tween the Board of Control and the Vic-
torian C. A.; the Englishmen are also
concerned in the matter. In spite of the
agreement between the Marylebone C. C.
and the board that the eight-ball over should
be adhered to in all matches in Australia save
the Tests, the visitors managed to wangle
the English six-ball over for the recent game
against Victoria. The same thing was done
in the two matches played in Tasmania. The
Victorians broke the rules agreed upon in the
first match also, when they covered the whole
of the wicket instead of the two ends. The
adoption of the six-ball over in the recent
Victorian match, however, is a really serious
repudiation of the treaty, and the board,
while preparing to towel up Victoria, is to
word the M.C.C. in addition.
* * * *
“Zyder”: That great slow bowler J. C.
White is due for a unique distinction when
he casts up in Somerset again. Fired by
his great deeds in the Tests the Council of
Taunton, which is the capital of the county,
has resolved to give him a civic reception.
There will be a procession, and, of course,
the inevitable banquet. To Australians,
accustomed to seeing receptions accorded to
almost every specimen of visiting athlete,
from pseudo-amateur swimmers to profes-
sional footballers, Taunton’s resolve will
seem nothing out of the common. It is
mighty rare in the Old Dart, save where
visiting royalty or notabilities of equivalent
calibre are concerned.
* * * *
The last Sheffield Shield match of the sea-
son, between N.S.W. and South Australia at
Sydney, was won in the last over by the home
side. South Australia failing by 60 runs to
head the opposition in their second innings,
which yielded 385 runs. Harris registered a
fine double for the visitors with 107 and 94,
while the wicket-keeping of Walker, who
bagged 8 wickets, was admirable. Bradman's
175 in the second innings of N.S.W. was the
star turn of the match, and Davidson behind
the sticks went one better than Walker in
wicket-getting.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Though it has been touch
and go on one or two occasions, N.S.W.
has won through the season without having
to take a hiding, thougli both matches against
the Englishmen were drawn. All the
Sheffield engagements were won, the Ma
State’s point score totalling 24 points against
14 by the loathed Victorian mob. Ma has
now won 19 times, Vic. 11, and South Aus-
tralia 4. Queensland still holds a maiden
certificate.
* * * *
Joe Darling, that mighty smiter of other
days, lays the wood on with all liis old zest:
A Bulletin correspondent (B. 27/2/’29) makes
statements regarding old-time players and myself
which are not correct, regarding the Harry
incident in particular. The selectors for the
1896 team were W. Bruce, Geo. Giffen and
Tom Garrett. They were appointed by the old
Cricket Council and not by the players, as a
lot of people seem to think. These selectors picked
13 men to go to England; A. E. Johns was
first wicketkeeper, and Harry the reserve. The
selectors showed very poor judgment in selecting
these 13 players, as they left out A. E. Trott,
Clem Hill and Jim Kelly. Johns, in the previous
season, stood out on his own as the most brilliant
’keeper in Australia, but the selectors overlooked the
fact that the Victorian bowling was far easier to
take than the Australian XI bowling would be.
After the 13 players were chosen the 1896 team
played the Rest of Australia at Sydney. The wicket
was affected by rain and resembled English wickets
to a great extent. Johns, for the first time, had to
take Ernie Jones and Tom Mclvibbin, and gave a
very poor exhibition. Kelly was the wicketkeeper
for the Rest. He far outclassed Johns behind the
wickets and was also an infinitely better batsman.
Harry was unable to play in this match owing to
an injured knee. This injury turned out to be so
bad that it was recognised
Harry would not be able
£o stand the lour. Harry
Trott, who was captain of
the side, called the team
together after the match,
and he and some of the
old players stated that
unless Kelly was taken as
wicketkeeper we might just
as well not go at all, as
Johns would not stand up
to Jones’s fast bowling for
a week. This opinion was
borne out on the tour.
Kelly played in every Test
and all the leading matches
on that trip. Clem Hill
then began batting excep-
tionally well, which was
not the case when the team
was selected. He made
201 not out against N. S.
Wales and 78 for the Rest
of Australia at Sydney
after the team had been
chosen. Harry, realising
that his injury was very
bad, offered to stand down
if he was given £l5O.
This was agreed to and
Clem Hill was taken in
his place.
As regards Trumper’s
selection in 1899, the boy
was making very big
scores in club cricket, but
did very little in the
inter-State matches. Frank
Laver, who was selected
instead of Trumper for the
last place in the team, had
a far better batting
average than Trumper,
and was a class bowler as
well. The selectors that
year, Hugh Trumble, Syd
Gregory and myself, picked
11 men, the choice of
another being left over
until after the second
match against the Rest
at Melbourne. This was
done so as to give Trumper every chance, and
also as a guide to the selectors, as there were
three men in the running for the last place—
Laver, Reedman and Trumper. As one of the
selectors, I say we were out to give Trumper every
chance, but as Laver was also a fairly young player,
we had to pick him. Just prior to the team sailing
for England, the last match against the Rest
was played at Adelaide. Trumper made 7 5
and 0. This innings of 75 was a revela-
tion to the selectors. The tour was being
financed, as usual in those days, by the Mel-
bourne Cricket Club. The club, through its manager,
the late Ben Wardill, agreed that Trumper should
be taken as an extra man, and the offer to give
the lad £l5O and pay all his expenses was made
by Wardill himself. It was clearly understood when
the offer was made that Trumper’s case would
be reviewed later on if his performances warranted
it. In the end Trumper actually received the same
amount as all the other players, it being a matter
of share and share alike.
Racquet and Bawl
“Spondulicks” : There can, be no doubt that
people are getting apathetic—even admitting
they were ever enthusiastic —over exhibition
tennis. The alarming shrinkage in gate
receipts of late has set some of the N.S.W.
tennis tax-gatherers going on new schemes
for snaring the shekels. The latest sug-
gestion is that Jack Crawford and J. O.
Anderson should meet in a gate-money game.
The local tennis heads have the power to
agree to sqch a meeting of amateur and pro-
fessional, but the international rules touch-
ing on the question lay down that such a
tourney should only take place for charit-
able objects. The Americans have been very
stiff on this line, and only recently turned
down a proposal that Tilden and Karl
Ivozeluh should meet, even though the gate
was to be devoted to charitable purposes.
The N.S.W. body has always been lax on the
matter of permitting amateurs and profes-
sionals ~to play together-—possibly because
it recognises without admitting the fact that
there is no such thing as amateurism in
front-rank Australian tennis nowadays.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Already another Davis Cup
battle is upon us. Canada kicks off against
the United States in the first round of the
American zone at Montreal on March IC.
It has been stated that neither Tilden nor
Hunter will turn out for the States, the big
pair reserving themselves for the European
QUITE LEGITIMATE.
MAIDEN AUNT: “Goodness! What are you doing up there?"
FLAPPER: “Just scoring, dear.”
MAIDEN AUNT: “But all the men are looking at your — er — limbs.”
FLAPPER: “Yes, dear. That’s where I’m scoring most.”
elimination battles, in the certainty that
Lott, Hennessey and Cos. will be good enough
to secure the zone supremacy for America.
Hs * * #
“Ivewpie”: Davis Cup representation at
full strength for the first time since the
immortal Anthony Wilding-Norman Brookes
partnership is within the reach of M.L.
during the coming season. E. D. Andrews, who
beat Francis Hunter at Wimbledon and was
runner up to Fred Kalms when he won the
Australasian singles, has always been a cer-
tainty for the team, and now there is a
worthy companion for him in young Camille
Malfroy, This lad the year after emerging
from junior class has placed himself so
securely that he is certain to be ranked as
number two in M.L. when the next ranking
list is issued. Last year he beat everyone
save the Canterbury crack Ivan Seay, and
this year he was runner-up in the national
singles and should have won.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Walter Hagen, greatest
of professional golfers and a showman who
runs Harry Lauder to a short, head when
it comes to making sure that the money is
good, is once more threatening to descend on
Australia, hut Walter, as usual, makes the
proviso of “sufficient inducement.” Last time
he asked for £IOOO for an Australian tour,
and only one club in the country. Woodlands
(Vic.), took enough interest in the pro-
posed visit to hop in with a guarantee of
£IOO. There are at least 50 clubs in Aus-
tralia who could stand tip the same amount
without straining their finances. But the
disinclination of Australian golfers to spar
up for occasions of this kind is notorious,
and there is no reason to suppose that
Hagen is likely to get the guarantee iie
desires. A pity. The clubs could raise
the money if they levied on each member
for a few pence a week —say, the dropping
of a couple of whiskies and sodas per mem-
ber for the entire season. But the trouble
is that a lot of Australian golfers are more
interested in the whiskies and sodas than
they are in the game itself.
* * * *
“Carnoustie”: Those public-private golf
courses (B. 6/3/’29) are much more common
than many discussing the subject suppose.
Lots of the big private clubs in England
permit the public to play over their courses
between certain hours, and all of the many
municipal links in Scotland are open at all
times to ratepayers free of charge, while the
outsider can play by joining the municipal
club for a modest fee. It is a fine system,
and one that might he copied in Australia
with advantage by the larger clubs, whose*
links are practically empty most of the week.
# * * *
“Hal Holt”: When a man misses a six-
inch putt he can be excused for wondering
why the hole is made so small and then
swearing at it. Aliclc Orr, foundation mem-
ber of Concord (N.S.W.) Club, realised that
a man must have something to curse about,
so he brought back the information from
England. The Royal and Ancient Golf Club
of St. Andrews has papers in its possession
which show how the size came into existence.
Early, very early, in the game, a member of
this old club was having his house repaired.
He went to the links, taking with him an
old water-pipe. He inserted this in the
ground and used it for a hole. The size of
the hole has remained the same ever since.
* * * *
“ITotham”: Victoria’s golf chiefs have
issued their list of standard scratch scores
for the State’s clubs. The scratch score
represents the number of strokes in which a
scratch player should go round the course
under all conditions, provided fairways and
greens are in . good order and there is no
exceptional wind. On this basis, the handi-
capping of club members can be so adjusted
that when a player from, say, Albert Park
enters in a handicap at Mildura the local
committee, by a comparison of his club
handicap and his club’s scratch score, can
forthwith size up his form, all chance of
ringing in being blocked. And since golfers
are just as human as other people, ringing
in has by no means been unheard of.
* * * *
“Claypan” : The Federal Capital Commis-
sion, which seems to have usurped the
authority of St. Andrews, together with
that of the Marylebone C. C. and the N.S.W.
Rugby League, has now officially permitted
the existence of golfers in the Federal Terri-
tory. As usual, the politicians have got in
on the nod, it being promulgated that they
may join the Canberra Golf Club as country
members, which means that they will enjoy
all the rights of genuine members without
paying for them. There is to be a big tour-
nament at Easter, with a Canberra Cup as
the leading event. This has been ordered,
but will not be displayed at Parliament
House, as originally intended, until the poli-
ticians have gone home The Canberra links,
which have been considerably disrupted by
Billy Hughes and others of a like disposi-
tion, are being planed off and polished in
anticipation of the meeting.
s**>!:
“The McHaggis”: Even golf must fall
into step with the relentless march of
progress. As might be expected, America is
responsible for the latest innovation,
an apparatus known as the “golf blinder,”
which is not as invidious as it sounds, being
a gadget like the blinkers worn by horses.
This is fastened on the patient’s head, the
latter- being then unable to see anything but
the ball and a limited area round it at the
time of drivingall distracting influences,
such as the caddie’s cold in the head, or the
silk stockings of the flappers among the
spectators, are thus eliminated. The next
step wall probably be a muzzle, in which
case a lot of people'will have to give up golf
and find some other excuse for profanity.
(Continued on next page)


Clothes for M.en
and Their Sons
A Good
Work Shirt
The “SANTWILL”
Worn by men in all corners of the Common-
wealth. Sand coloured Twill Shirting,
guaranteed fast colour. It revels in the
wash tub and laughs at hard work, r-j I q
All sizes. Three for 22/6. Each II Z/
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street, Brisbane
INTEREST-BEARING FAITH
The person who is faithful to his Savings Acount, year after year,
permitting compound interest to add its cumulative power, has a
far better chance of acquiring something substantial than the
person who habitually speculates on “Sure Things.”
The race is rarely to the swift.
One thing is certain—there is no magic about accumulation, there
are few short cuts, and most of those are dangerous.
It is best after all to find out the surest way, the cumulative way,
and then stick doggedly to it with interest added at 4% p.a.
Every Post Office is a Savings Bank Agency.
(Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
Jliphl opposite Jlddaides
Jfew ‘Railway Station/
tr
To meet you as you enter
Adelaide; to make your stay
one of unlimited pleasure;
to give the fullest measure of
“Service,” the Grosvenor is
the best situated and finest
equipped hotel in Adelaide.
I^l
3‘GROSVENOR
zJldekujdns Finest Unlicensed Uiolei
Opp. Railway Sin.. North Terrace.
Car and Cycle
“Disc Clutch”: The 24-liours’ test run
from Melbourne to Sydney, conducted by the
R.A.C.V., was a good advertisement for the
entire reliability of the motor-car as she is
made to-day. The driving allowance for the
565 miles was 21 hours, and 12 of the 13
starters cast up in Sydney well ahead of
time. The thirteenth, as might have been
expected, struck a special dose of bad luck in
the shape of a sudden attack of illness which
stalled the driver. It is only a few years
ago since it took a specially-equipped car
after the speed record just under 25 hours
to do the run. Now a small mob of all
makes and sizes does it easily inside 21
hours.
* * * *
“Garry” : llow much power is required to
move a car a mile a minute? That’s a bit
like asking the length of a piece of string,
but English sporting motorists are arriving
at an intelligible answer. Avery small,
lightly-built car carrying only the driver, and
engined with a diminutive single-cylinder
motor-cycle engine of 350 c.c. (what used to
be called 2$ lx.p.), can attain on the track
well over 70 m.p.li. The record is held by
a lady driver, Mrs. R. N Stewart, (a very
small, light lady, no doubt), who maintained
a speed of 76.74 m.p.li. over a kilometre
from a flying start in one of these tiny
vehicles. The cars are specially built, the
English record-breakers being propelled by
.T.A.P. motors. Of course the same engine
mounted where it belongs, in a motor-cycle,
can make a much better showing—loo m.p.li.
has been exceeded frequently by the diminu-
tive one-lungers.
* * * *
“Radio”: There is more than passing
interest for the motorist in the recent pro-
nouncement by an American engineer that
the air-cooled engine will be the only wear
for motor-cars within the next few years.
The advance in the designing of aeroplane
engines has been leading up to this, while
the air-cooled motor-cycle engine has also
1 helped. The water-cooling system, with its
tanks, pumps and other subsidiary nuisances,
are acknowledged defects in even the best
of modern engine designs. Air-cooled engines
were the ideal of more than one of the
early designers. One very successful Ameri-
can car, the Franklin, stuck to air-cooling
for a. long time, but finally went over to
the water system.
* 3: * *
“Hotliam”: The 200-milcs Australian
Grand Prix, to be staged by the Vic. Light
Car Club at Phillip Island on March 23,
has attracted an exceptional entry. There are
four divisions, the first for cars up to 850 c.c.,
the nominations for which include practically
all the well-known “insect” brands. Class
B is for cars between 850 and 1100 c.c., and
will include seven different makes. In class
C, for cars between 1100 and 1500 c.c., there
are 11 entries, the most interesting being a
front-drive Alvis. Class D, taking in all cars
rating above 1500. c.c., completes the pro-
gramme. With the course straightened out
and the roads improved out of sight since
last year, everyone interested is looking for
anew set of road records.
sir s’: sic
“Whizz”: It seems about time that some
of these alleged motor-cycle records were
reviewed. At present we have track records
for about a dozen different ratings, grass
records, and records for roads and dirt
tracks —all of them claiming world’s suprem-
acy, and all of them being broken as per-
sistently as they are made. A cable from
Maoriland announced last week that one
Coleman had put up a world’s record for a
flying mile by covering the distance in
44 4-ssec. Nothing is said of the class of
machine or the nature of the track. English-
man C. F. Temple has put up 29.885ec. on
a racing track. In Maoriland itself G.
Lambert has recorded 36 2-ssec. for the dis-
tance. The latest M.L. claim is evidently
for a dirt-track record. These are as multi-
tudinous as the sands of the seashore and
just as difficult to check.
3= 3: * 3=
“Hotliam”: Lamb brought off a fine double
at Melbourne Motordrome by winning the
long-established Austral Wheel race and the
five miles motor-paced Austral. The ex-
amateur was on the back mark (30 yards)
in the Wheel race and on the scratch line in
the second event, and on both occasions won
as lie liked. Lamb’s time for the two miles
wheel race was 4min. 6 3-ssec., which is a
track record.
3= * * 3s
“Methuselah II.”: A pathetic picture of
the past was presented to patrons of the
Melbourne Motordrome in the old-timers’
Austral Wheel race. In it were gathered
together veterans whose beards were black
in the days when Zimmerman, “Plugger
Bill” Martin, Major Taylor and a host of
other cycling giants from overseas helped to
give the pedalling game an importance which
shaded that of Test cricket even. The field
included winners of early-day Austral Wheel
races when that event was almost as eagerly
anticipated and discussed in advance as the
Melbourne Cup. It was a glorious game
while it lasted, like the pedestrian boom
which preceded it. Both went to the pack
for the same reason—the cash element
which, sooner or later, brings all forms of
professional athletics to the rubbish-tip.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Jack Standen, the
N.S.W. Olympic cyclist who turned profes-
sional in spite of his bond, has at last begun
to reap some of the wages of repudiation.
Disqualified by the International Cyclists’
Union, he filled a lucrative professional
engagement in Sydney on the ground that
the official notification had not come to hand.
It did the other day, and on receipt of an
intimation to this effect from the League of
N.S.W. Wheelmen the people to whom Stan-
den is contracted pulled him out of his races
and deposited him on the ice. There he will
remain until his appeal is entertained, or
until his “stretch” expires in May, 1930.
Miscellaneous
“Blade”: Rowing is supposed to be of all
sports the most conducive to that alleged
ailment “athlete’s henrt,” which is popularly
credited with having carried off so many
promising people in their prime. Yet, when
Maryborough (Q.) launched anew racing
eight the other day the lads who sat on the
slides were the original crew that repre-
sented Queensland in the inter-State eights
at Adelaide (there was no King’s Cup then)
in 1.907, when the Northerners took second
place to Tassy. All were there, from cox to
bow, and all were fat and hearty, especially
fat.
sjc 5k *
“Blade”: The cold snap in Europe has
been the cause of an unusual adjunct to
the training operations of the Oxford and
Cambridge crews for the big boat race. This
is the employment of a tug every morning
to break a clear channel through the frozen
Thames so that the crews may indulge in
some paddling exercise. Even then tin l
fragile shells have to be fitted at the prow
with steel sheathing to prevent the ice
piercing the thin cedar planking.
35 !|t * *
“Wysaac Alton”; Trout introduced in the
creeks and rivers in the Adelaide hills have
increased to such an extent that every pool
holds them. Yesterday I took five nice fish
on a fly in Sturts Creek, and when I was
packing up to leave along came some kids
each with a sugar-bag well filled with trout.
A few questions confirmed my suspicions—
they had learnt how to “tickle” them. This
trick—known as “guddling” to the Scottish
poacher—is as fatal to a trout stream as
dynamite. An expert “guddler” can catch
every fish, big or little, in a pool in an hour,
and clean out half a mile of creek in a week.
It won’t be long before the trick of it be-
comes common property among the local lads
—and then trout will be as rare as the
platypus in the Adelaide hills.
•I? ijt >lt *
“Hamer”; The argument centred sud-
denly and hotly upon what was the best
sport, and the partisans of cricket, football,
horseracing, sailing and tennis all put in
their claims, to be scoffed at by all the
others. When the jolly man declared that
there was nothing to beat fishing there was
DON BRADMAN, the Bowral (N.S.W.)
batsman, who in a couple of seasons has
risen from the matting-wicket class to
become one of Australia’s best.
a unanimous chorus of derision. “You want
something to put every muscle of your body
into action and keep you in condition,” said
the tennis-player. “Something to train your
eye, patience and skill,” was the cricketer’s
verdict. “Fishing!” snorted the footballer;
“why a man can get full of beer and still go
on fishing.” The fisherman stayed the storm.
“Well, ain’t I saying it’s the best sport?”
he said.
* * * *
“James Pigg”: Hunting has gone a long
way since Mr. Jorroeks and Soapy Sponge
jogged to cover through the mud and stag-
gered home in the darkness chilled to the
bone and with boots full of water. Last
week I heard of an up-to-date “thruster”
in the shires who sends his two horses to
cover in a motor-van, following himself in
one of these little perambulator cars. At
the covert side he and his second horseman
mount and the little car takes the place of
the horses in the van. This meets the
sportsman at the end of the day’s run. The
car is wheeled out and the horses put in, and
then everyone starts for home and a hot
dinner.
* * * *
“Bumpk.": This year’s swim through Mel-
bourne—a three-mile struggle assisted by the
current of the Yarrn—brought over 600 con-
N. PERCIVAL, rider of the Newmarket
winner St. Ardent, and a successful
horseman in W.A., S.A., Victoria and
N.S.W.
testants: men, women and children. The
race was more a frolic than a serious con-
test considering that Walters, regarded as
Australia’s best freshwater swimmer, had to
chew gum on the bank of Twickenham Ferry
for 45 minutes after the limit-lady had
stepped into the Ibarra mixture. Green, of
the Y.M.C.A., led the masculine pack at the
finish, and Mrs. Johnson, of the Half-moon
Club, was the first of the female remnant.
It was dark before the last of the contes-
tants was picked out of the water.
•I* * 3s *
“Spike”: The idiotic proposal to hold an
“Australian Olympiad” at Sydney has been
revived by the publicity hounds. There is
not the slightest chance of such an affair
turning out anything but a howling frost,
with the consequent dropping of a pile of
money. Apart from the distance from
Europe, numbers of whose athletes would be
needed to make the thing in the least worthy
of its name, there is the fact that the
Olympic Games are to be held in California
in three years’ time, while in between an
Empire Olympiad is to be staged at Mon-
treal. In any case, these athletic exhibi-
tions give rise in many cases to bad feeling.
Take the last Olympiad and the present tour
of the English cricketers as two widely-
separated examples.
* =:= * *
“Gate”: The N.S.W. Rugby League is
opening its season in Sydney on April 6 and
grade stoush begins a fortnight later. The
inter-State games with Queensland will be
played in Sydney on the Agricultural
Ground in the first week in June, the newly
reconditioned Sports Ground being utilised
for the other big matches. With the North-
of-England tour looming, desperate efforts
are being made to build up a decent team to
go overseas. Already several of the country
players who showed up so well last season
have been imported to the city for this
purpose.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: These professional
footballers have a proper idea of the value
of their services. The N.S.W. Rugby League,
which quarrelled with the Sydney Cricket
Ground trustees because the latter thought
they should have a larger share of the
League’s big profits, has been now imitated
by the Victorian Football League. This
body plays its semi-finals and finals on the
Melbourne Cricket Ground, huge crowds
attending. The League is of the opinion
that it is not getting as much money out of
the Cricket Ground fixtures as it should, and
has put the hard word on the trustees for
more. Otherwise, it may stage the big
matches elsewhere, and, like its Sydney cob-
ber, cut off its nose to spite its face.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Umses”: Talking about overdue accounts
(B. 23/l/’29), a friend of mine, after making
many vain efforts to collect a debt from a
close-fisted customer, put on the bottom of
the account “A cheque would surprise. ’
He got one by return mail.
=s * » *
“Narara”: The label “Made in Germany”
on an article does not always encourage its
sale among Germans. I recently had occa-
sion to borrow a saw from an old German
cabinet-maker who lives near me, and I re-
marked on the fact that it bore the label
“Made in England.” “Ach, yes,” came his
reply; “dose tarn Uoitsch vuns no goot vas.”
♦ * * *
“Bloggs”: The photomaton, which has
just arrived in Sydney, was all over London
when I left last year. The secret of its
appeal is simple. It provides six pictures foi-
ls. fid., all is over inside 10 minutes, and
the secretly-delighted sitter is in a position
to point out that the whole episode was to
him no more than a humorous experiment.
In the great stores, such as Selfridges, Lon-
doners of all ages and weights stood in
queues all day long awaiting their turn in
the boxes, and there was an establishment
in the Strand that held up the foot-traffic
during the luncheon-hour and after 5 p.m.
:J t * * *
“Morkrum” : “Morse” (B. 27/2/’29 states
that in 192 S 345,679 messages were handled
in Australia. The fact is that for the finan-
cial year ended June, 1928 (last available
figures), 17,637,716 telegrams were squirted
over the lines. The complaints register starts
off with the New Year and the N.S.W.
figures alone are already ahead of his alleged
Commonwealth tally for one year (642). In
1928 the register closed in Sydney at 3241;
Melbourne ran-up with 2347. Admittedly, a
percentage of errors results from bad writing,
but a very large proportion is due to the
vagaries of machine telegraphy and to the
practice of staffing lines with “telegraphists-
in-training.”
3s * * *
“Unity”: I don’t wonder that so many
telegrams fail to reach the people they are
intended for. Stepping out of. the automatic
lift that serves a big city block of offices, I
encountered a small telegraph boy. _ Thrust-
ing a wire into my hand he inquired if I
knew anyone in the building of that name,
and as I had never been in the place before
I assured him that I didn’t. “He muster
moved,” said the youth, skidding joyously
over the stone floor and out of the entrance.
It was only after a moment’s reflection I
realised the youngster had taken me for the
lift-driver. There was no chance of undeceiv-
ing him; by that time lie was back at head-
quarters handing the authorities another un-
claimed telegram.
* * * *
“H. See”: “S.T.S.” (B. 27/2/’29) quotes
an English dealer’s offer of stamps at 50
p.c. to 75 p.c. below catalogue prices, and
asks whether stamp-collecting is on the down
grade. It is not.. Most British Colonial
stamps change hands at 50 p.c. of Gibbons'
catalogue (which is used as a standard),
but many old Colonial issues in prime con-
dition cannot be bought at double catalogue
figures. The recent exhibition of stamps in
Melbourne answers “S.T.S.’s” query. In 34
days 6000 people paid for admission to see
£500,000 worth of stamps embraced in 5000
albums belonging to collectors in five con-
tinents.
* * * *
“Lead Bin”: Broken Hill shopkeepers,
banded together as a branch of the Country
Traders’ Association, bought off the latest
strike. The Municipal Employees’ Union
had a couple of retrenched employees on its
books, but the town clerk put another man
on, reckoning him better than either for the
job. This sort of thing is simply not done
at Broken Hill, and there was a municipal
strike. The traders, hurt by the closing
of the electricity works, which are under
council control, decided to pay one of the
union’s out-of-works until they could get
him a permanent job and to find work for
the other when the council did not want
him for relieving. All the men in the union
being thus provided for, the Industrial Coun-
cil graciously called the strike off.
* * * *
“No Importa”: The big Melbourne stores
are using the railways to an extraordinary
extent to deliver parcels for them in the
small country towns. There seems to be no
sound reason why the State Railway
Department should be used as a debt-collect-
ing agency. Further, it is unfair to the
country storekeeper, who has to look on and
see his own customers paying cash to the
railway s.m. while they expect lengthy credit
from the local tradesmen for their house-
hold necessities.
* * * *
“Up Top” : Little Thursday Island, with
its one mile of roadway, is going in for
motoring enthusiastically—the speck now
boasts ten cars and eight lorries.


FOR ALL SPORT
BUY
THE SPORTING GLOBE
The Leading Australian Authority with the largest
staff of Sporting Experts and Special Representatives
in all States. The staff includes:—
“MUSKET” The Turf
“BAIL” Cricket
W. S. SHARLAND Football
PAT O’HARA WOOD Tennis
J. J. MAHER Cycling
J. M. DILLON Golf
A. L. DOBBIE Rowing
TOM MORLEY Coursing
MAURIE COLLINS Bowls
H. C. BROOKE Yachting
New South Wales edition available
every Thursday, price 3d.
Actual
Size
The discernment that can ap-
preciate perfection finds perfect
gratification in every cigar
banded with the full name—
LA CORONA 1
IIAJLF-A- C ORONA
GUYATTS
SURGICAL
BELTS
FOR EVERY PURPOSE
ESPECIALLY featuring abdominal sup-
port for men, women and children, in
woven surgical elastic, fine coutille or
jean. Sporting belts, in web, cotton,
or wool, with or without elastic sides,
mdia rubber, air or stuffed pads as required.
Elastic Trusses of every description. Self
adjusting, comfortable and convenient.
GUYATT & CO. Dept. Jf
257 a George Street, Sydney.
z
z
To
be
of the
sure
//
inal
100 l
8
on
l
for
name
WEED
?
on
every
hook
ALMOST impassable
- roads are made nav-
igable for the truck or
bus equipped with WEED
TYRE CHAINS.
Weed Chains grip and
hold —they furnish the
traction necessary to take
one steadily through soft,
miry mud, sand or clay.
No truck or bus should
ever be without Weed
Chains. Keep them ready
for immediate use when
road conditions warrant.
Order fromyour dealer.
WEED
TYRE CHAINS
1507
DEPENDABILITY
ieylan
t tVXAKO. LANCS.
DEPENDABILITY in the Leyland Lorry
is not contingent on favorable haulage
conditions. It is as evident on bad roads
as on good ones, under the heaviest and most
gruelling loads as under normal ones, and is as
apparent after years of use as in the first
months of the lorry’s life.
Such dependability is not a matter of chance.
It is the inevitable result of reliable work-
manship, the careful choice of materials and of
thorough testing at every stage of manufacture.
Some Prominent Australian
Fleets of Leyland Lorries
Royal Australian Air Force 64
N.S.W. Government Railways 41
Sydney Municipal Council 36
Public Works Department, N.S.W 32
Postmaster-General’s Department 20
The Leyland Lorry is British built at the great
Leyland works in Lancashire, England, and is
backed by 30 years’ experience in lorry
construction.
Booklets c°' ,e ”" B i*i
'“lfflke JosteJ
Lorries c v e n
on reques not
though y °^ ase 0 t a
the P^ rC \orry
actlally £
-
reference.
GF
HEAD OFFICE
24 CROSVENOR ST
SYDNEY ••
rfcfd-
ENGLAND
SERVICE STATION
AUSTRALIA ST.
CAM PERDOWN
TELEPHONES 8.7951 - 8.7952 TELEGRAMS LEYMOTORS-SYDNEY
Melbourne Depot:
Cr. Villiers & Courtney Streets,
N. MELBOURNE.
Brisbane Depot:
Grey Street, S. BRISBANE.
V'>
*• Ar^
I K’
J*
r*
ij
£3
!*/
niffpnßA
g&fe
wi •
»V
iA
SW,
*««&
IW%
H
WK
wS
itvU'
S 3
>A
£?*a
*;/>: V;,
'A
m)
Via
fV.'
SA'A'J
BS
r.ii*'
VA
3
/
AS’
»v
a-
r-J*
■. e>
af»^
n&r
/&*?*
&
r


7he centre of Queens Zanc/s
ct/stmgu/shecZ Soc/oZ Li/e.
§ote I
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and * Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Dines,
GF
Booking
AT
Busy Seasons
Never take it for granted that 'The Australia is full, or
listen to people who say "it’s no use applying they re sure
to be booked-up.”
On the contrary, our accommodation is equal to practically all
demands placed upon it. Should we be fully booked when you
apply, we will gladly arrange the next best available accom-
modation.
Telegraphic, Cable and Wireless Address: "Austraotel,” Sydney
Capital Paid-Up,
£422.100.
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH
SYDNEY
G
F
ƑG
F
G
Also Hosiery, Woollens, etc. Cash’s Names are
unsurpassed for the Household, Traveller and
School Outfits. Any name woven in fast colot
Will Last
Fora
Lifetime
s
a
Saves
Loss and
Trouble
“A Few Stitches and They’re on”
Ƒ
Actual Size, Style No. 6
The Price* are Moderate
12 doz. 7/6, 6 doz. 5/-, 3 doz. 3/6>
SOLD 3Y leading drapers,
Write for Name Style Circular to
J. & J CASH Pty Ltd
8S Cubitt Street. Richmond
Melbourne
G
nAMLs
F
Melbourne
Chatter
—
The counter-attraction of tlie Test match
(lid not make much difference to the atten-
dance at Flemington on Saturday. Melbourne
seems able to provide a big crowd for any
outside show when the weather is behaving
itself. Early arrivals at the cricket ground,
warned by the cutting breeze of the day be-
fore, came with rugs, but, save to make
wooden seats more comfortable, the wrap-
pings were not required. There was just
enough crispness in the air to pleasantly
temper the sunshine, and coats and skirts
clothed most of the womenfolk present. The
Governor and Lady Somers, who also had a
look at the cricket, lunched at the V.R.C.
'course and invited some guests to share their
meal. Her Ex. wore a jersey-jumper sports
suit and ballibuntal straw-hat, three shades
of green being represented. In the v.-r. com-
pany were Cyrus McCormick, jun., of the
International Harvester Co., and his wife
from U.S.A. Mrs. McCormick wore a beige-
colored ensemble frock with pointed fox-fur
and harmonising felt millinery. Mrs. Arthur
Rullivant, another guest of the Governor and
his lady, wore smartly-tailored tweed. The
figured ring velvet frock made its appearance
in many instances, but only in a few cases
was it shaped by a master craftsman. Any-
one who possessed a bit of fur in the way
of necklet or cape divorced it from the society
of the mothballs, but new pelts were few.
There were many tea parties beneath the
('lms. Mrs. Fred. Grimwade, with a large
black felt- and straw-liat above a fawn frock
with a black coat, was co-hostess with her
mother. Mrs. Aslan Foster, at a large gather-
ing. On the lawn were Mrs. Neville Fraser,
who wore black velvet; Mrs. Cuthbertson in
a navy-tailored suit; Mrs. A. P. McLaehlan,
of S.A., who showed a reseda-green crepe
satin gown beneath a natural Pasha coat,
allied to a felt hat; and Mrs. Philip Glass,
whose fawn georgette frock was brightened
by a red hat.
The crowd at Flemington for the second
day’s racing was surprisingly large, and the
flower-beds and the blowing standard roses
made the scene a gay one. Dressing was of
a nondescript order. A very cool morning
counselled the cautious to don wrap-over
coats and warm suits. Though things
warmed up about lunch-time, the colorful
parasols of the first day were not in use,
and there was a sombre note about most
feminine apparel. The G.-G. gathered some
guests around his luncheon table, and the
State Governor and Lady Somers, in their
private suite, also entertained several guests.
In Lord Stonehaven’s company were Frank
Clarke’s lady, a study in cigar-brown,
and her daughter Marnie, who favored a
variant of the same hue. The H. P. McKen-
zies, of Trawalla, and Betty Fairbairn were
other guests of his Ex., also Mrs. John
Winter Irving, in coral-pink jumper suit
and a deeper-toned velour hat.
Lady Somers had a scarlet hat above a
sapphire-blue coat frock. Mrs. George Black-
wood, whose black satin gown had a vest
of pink georgette, and whose beret-shaped
toque was of black plush, was with the State
Governor’s party, also Mrs. Archibald Currie,
Kathleen Currie, smart in cobalt-blue frock
and hat; Mrs. E. H. Davidson and Mrs.
Harry Creswick, wearing a suit of shep-
herd’s plaid and a red hat. Mrs. Harry
Whiting’s black and grey tweed suit was
fetching, and Joan Chirnside, her com-
panion, looked attractive in sports apparel
of dull green and a felt hat. Mrs.
George Armstrong had mink fur bordering
an ensemble of fawn cloth. Mrs. Leon Gor-
don dangled large crystal rings from a close-
fitting black hat to simulate ear-rings, and
her frock was of platinum-grey satin.
Australian Cup week twirled to an end
with a State Government House dance. The
arrangements anticipated a warm night, a
marquee adjoining the verandah being fitted
with comfy chairs for sitting out and opening
on to an inviting garden twinkling with
fairy lights. But the weather was chilly, and
the staircase and seats about the hall were
preferred by most to either tent or garden.
Lady Somers’s simple white georgette gown
was girdled about with rhinestones and tur-
quoises. The Governor-General arrived when
the party was in full swing, and the Anthem
was, for once in a way, omitted. The dress-
ing was not as new or as attractive as that
seen at other dances of the gala period.
Vivid blue, red and a good deal of pink were
favored in colors. Rear-Admiral and Mrs.
Napier and Commander Langford and his
daughter Molly were among the naval folk
present. General Chauvel and his lady
headed the military representation and
Wing-Commander Spicer and Mrs. Spicer,
she gleaming in silver lace, were among the
Air Force section. Mayor and Mayoress
Luxton were there, but the attendance was
mostly made up of country folk associated
with polo.
Mrs. Alan Currie was a graceful figure
in black tulle and pearls. Mrs. Norman Fal-
kiner and Mrs. George Blackwood, both in
black, and Mrs. Norman Brookes, in what
looked like a glistening coat of mail, were
dancers* English cricket-captain Chapman,
though reported to be clean bowled by ’flu,
was an energetic jazzer. His wife’s fair-
ness was set off by attire of pale-green lace.
Mrs. Gordon Chirnside’s cobalt-blue pointed
draperies were topped by a turban head-
dress of the same hue. Mrs. C. O. Fair-
bairn was wrapped in sapphire-blue velvet;
Betty Shackell gyrated in nymph-green tulle ;
and the blonde Pat Lcmpriere sheathed her-
self in pale pink lace. Mrs. A. V. Hiskens,
in black; Mrs. John Winter Irving, in white
that sparkled over pale pink; Mrs. Hugh
Bullivant and her daughter, and the Oswald
Symes were there.
The Geoffrey Symes* dance, which took
place at their Kew residence, was a happen-
ing of Australian Cup week. Owing to her
mother being unable, through illness, to join
the joyous throng, daughter Joan was called
upon to play the role of hostess. The hand-
some young miss, in pale gold tulle with
fluffy frills sweeping to the ground at the
back, had aid from her brother-in-law and
sister, Commander Geoffrey Haggard and
Mrs. Haggard; the latter a slim figure in
white silk lace. Maisie Cowper, in vellum-
toned satin, and Barbara Campbell, wearing
lime yellow chiffon draperies, were debutantes
at the smart hop, which was mostly attended
by unattached youth. The Fred. Grimwadcs,
Captain Keppel Palmer and Mrs. Palmer,
whose white satin gown was draped into a big
sash bow behind; the Norman Barretts;
Mrs. Sidney Dalrymple, wearing black vel-
vet, and the Jim Fairbairns were among the
older dancers.
The opening day of the Test match was
dull in every sense of the word. The play
was stodgy and a cold wind cruelly sought
out silk-clad legs.
Lady Somers, who was in the stand with
the G.-G. and Lord Somers seemed glad to
share a rug some thoughtful person had
provided. Fur coats came out in dozens,
and people on the stands and beneath awn-
ings envied those who sat in the sun. The
crowd was a huge one for a work-day. In
the members’ enclosure, besides Lady Somers,
wlio topped a red leather fur-collared coat
with a similar-hued straw hat. were Leo
Cussen and his lady, Mrs. T. A. Beckett and
the Donald Mackinnons. Mrs. Alfred Tol-
hurst had with her those golfing enthusiasts
Shirley and Susie. Sheila Morell and
Eomola Smith were two smartly tailored
misses.
Here is a picture by Jack Cato of pianist
Rita Hope, who off the concert-platform is
Mrs. Percy
Shier. She is
one of the
very few Aus-
tralians wh o
studied under
the great Les-
chetizky. She
has given reci-
tals in Vienna
and London,
and the critics
in both centres
have been
kind. Wi t h
Katie Liddle, a
former pupil,
she will open
the concert
season here
with a pro-
gramme of
music for two
pianos at the
Assembly Hall
on March 20. Arrangements ot some or
the Bach Choral Preludes and pieces by
Percy Grainger figure on the programme.
Betty Fairbairn, daughter of the late Mr.
and Mrs. Charles Fairbairn, gave a dance
at No. 9 on Australian Cup night. Masses
of mixed cottage-garden blooms made effec-
tive and unusual decoration. White silk net
sprinkled with silver beads with uneven hem
line was the youthful hostess’s array. C. O.
Fairbairn, her brother, brought his wife,' who
was in pink tulle. Mrs. Tom Grantham wore
pale yellow satin traced in a feathery design
of crystal, and Mrs. James Fairbairn set off
her good looks with a black gown. Mr. and
Mrs. Robert Knox, the Val Macdonalds (she
in plumbago-blue georgette lit up with rhine-
stones), Lorna Hiskens, Colonel and Mrs.
Davidson, the Chester Manifolds and Ella
Payne were dancers.
The linking of Margaret Marian Mcßean
and Eric Bolton, R.E., eldest son of the late
Engineer-Commander A. W. Bolton, Kent,
England, was accomplished at the Toorak
kirk on Friday. The bride, the elder daugh-
ter of the late Mrs. Alec Mcßean of Sey-
mour held an immense sheaf of white and
gold ’lilies against a white chiffon frock
framed in many yards of tulle suspended from
a coronet of orange buds. Her sister Bar-
bara bridesmaided in mauve ninon and
matching felt millinery. The wedding feast
was spread at Norla. the Toorak home of
the bride’s grandmother, the Fraser lady,
whose all-black attire was brightened by a
posy of American Beauty roses.
Captain Guy Moore, the secretary of the
Aero Club, looks out from this paragraph.
Ilis tenor
voice is known
to 1 i s t e ners
who tune in on
3LO, and he
had a fine war
record. Going
across in the
early days of
the struggle in
an administra-
tive job, he
joined the
Royal Flying
Corps at the
same time as
Kingsford
Smith did.
Captain Moore
few in France
and Eg y p t.,
was twice
wounded, and
won the 1 )is-
tinguished Fly-
ing Cross. At present he s very busy with
the arrangements for a ball at the Essendon
hangars on the 23rd, when there will be
stunting in the moonlight for the entertain-
ment of the guests. Ruskin made the por-
trait.
Melbourne Grammar School Chapel was
requisitioned for the knot-tying of Joan
Millicent, eldest daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
A. N. McArthur, of Toorak, and Geoffrey,
ypungest son of the A. S. Austins, of Green-
vale station, Wjllaura. Cut on mediaeval
lines, the wedding robe was of white and
gold brocade, over which cascaded a veil of
parchment-tinted tulle. A necklace of amber
and a sheaf of yellow lilies completed the
picture. Three ’maids in yellow frocks, softly
frilled, and pale green hats made a harmonis-
ing background. No. 9 was chosen for the
after-rejoicings.
Janet Dalziel Rudd, who has had an
innings of seven years as social editress of
the Geelong Advertiser, has consented to
enter a life-partnership with the editor of
that paper, Lance Fallaw. The ceremony
will take place at Canberra on Friday.
A welcome-home was given last week to
knight Harrison Moore and his wife at
Melba Hall of the Uni., and opportunity
was taken at the same time to greet a
newcomer to the professorial staff, Prof.
Thomas Cherry. The gathering was mus-
tered by Prof. T. H. Laby and his wife and
the F. W. Egglestons. The Harrison Moore
lady was given a posy which was on good
terms with her gown of lime-green satin
and lace, glimmering with silver and dia-
inente. Gold lace and deep-blue georgette
mingled in Mrs. Laby’s frock; her co-
hostess had sparkling embroidery linking
faint pink chiffon and black lace, and Jean
Eggleston displayed a present-day mode in
pale pink velvet. Walter Kirby, Lena Wor-
land and Edward Beechcroft made music.
Accompanying Prof. Cherry were his parents,
Dr. and Mrs. T. Cherry, and their daughter
Margaret. Harrison Moore and his lady
have been touring Europe.
The Palms, a tea rendezvous on Henley
lawns on the Yarra bank, sheltered the hop
given by Col. Scott and the officers of the
2nd Cavalry Division. Mrs. Scott was in
black with embroidery of crystal. Lieut.-
General Chauvel and his lady, she in glisten-
ing white, topped the list of guests, which
included officers of every rank. .
Mannequin parades of autumn fashions
fall fast upon u§. The other day one firm
put on a show that covered everything in
the way of coats and frocks for all occasions.
A bride paced around in ivory ring velvet
made with a bustle bow, the ends serving
as a train, which was supplemented by a
lace edged tulle veil that divided into a
train on either side. The ’maids wore
emerald green velvet with swathed toques of
chiffon of a paler shade. Evening frocks
featured lace or unpatterned colored ring
velvet, materials which seem likely to oust
all others this dance season. A charming
combination was a lace frock with a bridge
coat of the same material, a much more
becoming covering than the brocade or tissue
coat of last year. The winter coats were
mostly of the wrap-over order, a new idea
being wide scarves attached to the collars,
with the ends fur-edged. Jumper sports
suits in many instances were quaintly
trimmed with contrasting colors in cubist
designs.
In the approaching season, Fashion has
decreed that our heads shall be covered for
evening wear, which will do away with the
necessity for combing the shingle in com-
pany. The turban having been successfully
repelled, caps are to be thrust upon us. small
jewelled affairs with ear-flaps curved over
the brows were designed, but it is Spmelly,
the famous actress, who has fixed the vogue
by wearing a Chinese skull-cap of gold mesh
at a casino in the Riviera. So fascinating
was its effect that everyone was fired to
follow her example, though a skull-cap
doesn't suit every set of features.
Does anyone want an island 100 acres in
area? There is one for sale owned by this
State. It is Churchill Island, so named by
Lieutenant James Grant, who sailed the Lady
Nelson into Westernport on a voyage of dis-
covery many years before Melbourne s city
site was surveyed. The party of explorers
came from Sydney and spent some months
on the island, evidently with a view to
settling. They put in wheat —the first gram
sown in Victoria —but finally, becoming dis-
satisfied with their surroundings, sailed away
and left their crops for the blacks and kan-
garoos to feed on. These days the whirr
of ’planes on the wing will keep the new
owner from feeling too lonesome.
Rear-Admiral Napier and his wife sail
back to the Cold Country in June, and
Admiral Kerr will take his place as First
Member of the Naval Hoard. Aus-
tralia isn’t a new country to tin 1 new head.
Thirty years back he knew our ports as
a gay lieutenant. A new captain is .being
shipped from England to rule over Flinders
Base; the retiring chief, Captain Dann-
reuther, and his family have already waved
their farewells. The Naval College, is also
to have a new principal. In addition to
these changes a small company of lieuten-
ants is being sent here on exchange. Flin-
ders is a very popular station with the senior
service, and the home-bound boys are leaving
with regret.
Melbourne’s latest caf6, the Esperia, has
as its mission the supply of nourishment at
hours when folk are supposed not to feel
hungry. Its primrose-blinded windows deco-
rate Exhibition-street with a soft glow in the
small hours of the morning. Theatrical folk
have taken to going there, and as the curious
find a peculiar fascination in watching stage-
people eat, tables are generally full. Romeigo
Budica, the host, would make an excellent
screen sheik, lie is a verse-maker of some
reputation in Italy, and before embarking
on his restaurant venture earned a crust by
doing Italian translations for the Firm. He
was one of D’Annunzio’s officers at the time
of the dramatic episode of Fiume.
The postponed Cumming Cup match be-
tween Caramut and a Moonee Valley team
added to the casualties of the polo season.
Neville F. Armytagc, a member of the Gov-
ernor’s Moonee team, received a blow on the
forehead which sent him to join Major
Nimmo in Mont St. Evins hospital. Both
patients are likely to be there some time.
The combination of pale yellow and leaf-
green for bridesmaids’ attire is much favored
here just now. Possibly the blending has
been inspired by the color scheme of the
Town Taxi Co.’s vehicles, but there are
many who think that the attire of an
English actress in a current production gave
the fad its kick-off.
Pianists Vera Bradford and Marshall
Sumner, ex-students of the Uni. Con. under
Mr. Homewood, have gained scholarships at
the Chicago College of Music, offered by
Alexander Raab. This musician, a pupil
of Leschetizky, is one of the world’s leading
instrumentalists.
Flinders township, which is some miles
from the naval base, is now one of the exclu-
sive seaside resorts. It has little to boast
of in its beach, which is rocky, but there is
a good natural bathing-pool. The town is
tiny, and a movie-theatre provides the only
evening dissipation. Vegetation is limited
to cypress pines and tea-trees. It is the golf-
links that constitute the attraction for
most visitors. A round on those links is
like a stroll on a switch-back railway.
About the second hole the player skids down
a cliff, aptly termed Niagara; Spion Kop
rises abruptly in the neighborhood of the
fifth hole. Upon the summit sundry clumps
of tea-tree blot out the next green, and some-
what in the vicinity of the ninth and tenth
is a picturesque tea-house. The way on-
ward brings one to a ditch with a sort of
wooden drain, termed The Coffin. Very suit-
ably named, Purgatory is the next pitfall.
Heaven is reached at the nineteenth hole.
Felt hats, which have held first place
in women’s favor during the last winter,
spring and summer, will still be with us
when the winds blow shrewdly off the Alps.
A few weeks ago felt hats of certain shapes
were being sold retail at what looked like
wholesale prices, and we wondered why.
The explanation is the advent of a new
felt headpiece of an adorable mushroom
shape, trimmed in fanciful fashion, generally
with a wreath of flat leaves of harmonising
color. The material has a surface approach-
ing that of velour.


. vvv\-:.
The super]) quality of the gems selected for use in
Drummond s Rings contributes in no small degree to
their distinctive appearance, but it requires the
masterly skill of the firm's experts to impart that
added exclusiveness that' has always been associated
with their Diamond and Gem Rings. Both the quality
and the distinctiveness of the Rings illustrated cun
best be appreciated by a personal inspection.
A discoimt of five per cent, is allowed
on all cash purchases.
WILLIAM DRUMMOND C CO,
344-346 COLLINS ST.
MELBOURNE r=zk
I, E ,
3 H
f " 8 4a‘
„ w :
PROCESSES
v«
%
3*
JUST PUBLISHED.
New Revised and Enlarged Edition of
The Greatest Book Ever Offered
to the Public!
HENLEY’S TWENTIETH - CENTURY
BOOK OF SECRET
RECIPES, FORMULAS
and PROCESSES
...... ,3-S £’■ '~-i ~~r:
10,000
Trade Secrets
Practical Recipes
Chemical Processes
Scientific Formulas
HOW TO MAKE EVERYTHING
For the Home, the Factory and Workshop.
Antiseptics', Waterproofing, Lubricants, Rust Preventives, Dyes, Filters Cleaning
te 11 10,lfe A lMia : nelh, ;f’ Be . vera ges, Inks, Adhesives, Polishes, Disinfectants
Ifvonnp, Cosmetics, Ceramics, etc., etc.; how to make fly-paper - to color fhiwera
artificially ; to estimate weight of ice by measurement; to make materials fireproof•
to work with metals aluminium, brass, etc.; to make aisSl3fllir ß v2J&
from A to Z.
THIS IS THE BOOK
Everyone who seeks PRACTICAL ACCURATE KNOWLEDGE
and guidance in his everyday work MUST HAVE at his command.
It is a money-maker and a money-saver; it appeals to the young as well as to the
old. Great business enterprises owe their success to the manufacture or sale of
simple inventions or compounds, usually the result of an experiment at home.
that has made others successful. GET THIS BOOK
LO-DAI. Everybody should have a copy for ready reference.
Price 20/-; Postage 1/- extra.
Every Manufacturer—Workshop— Factory
—Laboratory—Office and Home Worker
will find priceless formulas in this wonderful book—formulas which men have
spent a lifetime of toil to perfect. Nothing like it has ever been offered before
It/very formula can be depended upon. It is a priceless book of information which
everyone should possess. One formula alone will more than pay you for the
expense of the whole book. It tells many trade secrets which' hitherto have
been impossible to obtain.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
The Best House for Technical Books,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
LIGHT AND HEAT THE COLEMAN WAY
«c,
f f
V>
1
Have This Better Light in
Your Home, Too
You’ll find the QUICK-LITE Lamp ideal
for every light need throughout the house.
Always ready with 300 candle-power of
pure white, cheerful brilliance. Brighter
than 20 old-style kerosene lamps. Clean,
convenient, safe. More than a million
in use.
Coleman Quick-Lite
“The Sunshine of the Night.”
No wicks to clean; no chimneys to
wash ; no daily filling. This beauti-
ful lamp and gasoline for a year cost
much less than just the kerosene
needed for an oil lamp. Just the
light for reading and sewing.
PRICE 75/-
COLEMAN QUICK-LITE CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
285 William Street, Melbourne, Cl, Victoria.
718 Harris Street, Ultimo, Sydney, N.S.W.
31 Bower Building, Charles Street, Adelaide, S.A.
The Small-Cost Heater
with a Big Lot of Hect .
z
Heats like Sunshine—a penetrat-
ing heat that warms and cheers.
c..
vr
11 \ <
a
fm
You Can Cook Price
on It, Too! £5(10/-
Use it upstairs, downstairs—all
around the house—for quick heat-
ing and quick cooking.
INaHß'tft
'.a ft* :
Ifil'llteiirt • ’-
*1
Coleman Quick-Lite Lantern is
the “Light of a Thousand Uses”
for out-of-doors night work. It
is just the thing for night plough-
ing, harvesting, feeding, repair-
ing, clioring or any sort of after-
sundown work about the farm.
It is used by liverymen, night watch-
men, garage men, and to light up filling
stations, tent-shows, street stands, pub-
lic meetings, etc. The Quick-Lite Lan-
tern is a necessary item for camping,
touring, night fishing, night picnics,
hunting or any sort of pleasure trip
where light is needed.
The light is protected by a mica chim-
ney which makes it wind proof, storm
proof and bug proof. It won’t blow out.
Gives a steady bright 300-candlepower
light in any kind of weather. Can be
used in a thousand' places where the
common kerosene lantern is useless.
Price -
and - -
- - 65/
- - 75/


Under
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1920.
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE <
CharlesTfeidsieck
uni
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limitad
SYDNEY. ,
champagne
'iarleslleidsieo^
Heims
PELLISSOIM
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
m
e
in an pastern Setting
THE exotic decora •
tions make the Ball-
room and Palm Court
ideal for the formal or
the intimately informal
gathering.
Luncheon a la carte
daily.
Afternoon Tea .. 3/6
Saturday 4/-
Monday Afternoon
reserved for Bridge.
u
JHE Egyptian Ballet
showing every
afternoon and Saturday
evening. Come and
hear Tutankhamen’s
favorite band.
Sat u r day Evenings:
Dinner 15/-
Supper 10/6
Other Evenings the
Ballroom may be
privately engaged.
RING
BWI 3 6 1.
FOR
RESERVATIONS
52Maeleay St.
Limited
The Company will transfer its
business to the new Private Hotel
in Greenknowe Avenue, Potts
Point, in March, 1929, where it
will feature Central Heating,
Private Baths and Telephones to
each room.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views.
Inclusive Tariff from £5/5/-
per week, or £l/1/- per day.
Bed and Breakfast from
£4/4/- per week, or 16/-
per day.
For appointment to view ’phone
F 2161 (4 lines). Telegraphic
Address: Fifmac, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Every second woman at the Victoria
League reception to Lady de Chair sported
a necklet. Her Ex. swung a turquoise one,
Mrs. Walter Swinson’s was of amber, and
a string of cornelians set in hand-wrought
silver caught the light as Mrs, Roystone
Davey moved. Many wore earrings to
match. All wore their best hats, and nearly
all found a chair to sit on. Mungo Mac-
Callum, who came with his lady and was
the only male present, showed his qlnvalry
by standing. Even the support of the
door-post was denied him when secretary
Beulah Bolton insisted on drawing the glass
portals together to keep in the sound of Lady
do Chair’s voice. Her Ex. wore dove grey
georgettes and a grey hat, and carried the
crimson roses and surprised-looking pansies
given to her by the League’s president, Miss
Macarthur Onslow. A reference to the vice-
reine’s chceriness and energy drew the cooed
response that these were two qualities
Stimulated in her by the Australian women,
who were so full of both. The beauties ot
the gardens and tree-shaded streets ot Hono-
lulu were stressed by the guest of honor,
who added that she and Elaine were glad
to be home again, for it was as home the.y
had thought of Sydney during all their
travels. Elaine looked bonny in a jumper
suit of pale pink and a wide crinoline liat.
Miss Macarthur Onslow turned on royal blue
georgette and lace for the occasion, and
another of the extremely well dressed was
the Sheldon lady. Bowls of asters from
North Shore gardens added a touch of
autumn glory.
The Musical Association’s lunch to Spiva-
kovsky was one of last week’s pleasant inter-
ludes. The fruit-cup held just the right
amount of passion-fruit seeds and was so
heady with cinnamon that Mrs. Hugh Ward
murmured the Star Spangled Banner over it
to neutralise any untoward properties it
might possess. Spivakovsky, who sat under
the clock with Faunce Allman and Spencer
Thomas, looked more like an abbreviated
edition of the Village Blacksmith than a
pianist. Dr. Orchard snatched a moment to
make a speech which commenced: “In this
age of too much rushing.” Thereat Spiva
looked a little puzzled and disconcerted, but
Mrs. Spiva (a little ash blonde, very bright
and keen of eye, and round of cheek) flashed
him the “all clear” signal, and the Russian
looked relieved though still puzzled. The
lunch was as great a success as Mrs. Spiva-
kovsky’s hat, which was of royal blue felt
and worn well off the forehead in the new
way.
Minnie Hamblett, a delightful little Eng-
lish pianist, who has been spending some
time in Sydney, said farewell to her Aus-
tralian friends in typical fashion. She bade
them to a good-bye concert in Paling’s con-
cert-room. Gwen Selva and Clifford Lath-
lean added vocal melody to the night’s enter-
tainment, which was intimate, informal and
as charming as Miss Hamblett herself.
Mrs. Niels Stoi'aker, who was Gwen Monie
(a sister of the first Mrs. Lebbie Hordern),
is to become a figure of the local diplomatic
service. Her husband has just been appointed
Consul for Norway in Sydney.
In. the social columns of the Sydney press
one frequently notices the headline “Stay-
ing at 52.” All Sydney society folk and
others know that it refers to 52 Macleay-
street, Darlinghurst, where Madame Melba
takes up her residence when in Sydney, but
•when the Dame again comes this way she
will notice quite a change about the old
place. The business is to be transferred to
new premises in Greenknowe-avenue, Potts
Point. It sounds like the knell of 52, per-
haps the only street number in any part of
the world that is known in the West End
of London, in the fashionable quarters of
Paris and New York; —in fact, wherever
world-rovers congregate.
Mona Pearce, from Wellington (M.L.),
was one of last week’s pretty brides. She
chose St. Nicholas’s Cliurch, in Coogee, for
her exchange of vows with Theodore Edgar
Jones, of Perth, and Padre Greenwood did
the official listening-in. The wedding frock
was of ivory georgette and satin; graceful
shoulder draperies floated to the hem of the
ankle-length skirt. One of the new crushed
bows of ivory moire was another feature of
the outfit, which was completed by a cascade
of tulle that flowed into a train and a sheaf
of pale pink gladioli and frangipanni. Two
’maids, one in pale green and silver and
another in primrose hues, attended the bride,
whose mother later cooed intimate friends to
Berkley Court, Bondi, for the rejoicings.
Curly-headed Eve Goddard, who has been
with the Australian Bank of Commerce since
she left school, did its general manager the
honor of becoming his wife the other day.
Eye, who was one of the most popular girls
in the bank, has been the guest of honor at
every sort of gift tea ever thrust on a pros-
pective bride; and she was as laden with
good wishes as with pink gladioli when she
walked up St. Andrew’s to whisper the con-
ventional surrender to bridegroom C. M. C.
Shannon. She wore a flutter of pale-pink
georgette frills, pink satin shoes and a soft
pink felt hat; a spray of the fragrant frangi-
panni without which no bride of the moment
is complete was pinned on her shoulder.
Cousin Mrs. E. R. Vaughan, in skyey-blue
frocking and with an armful of golden
gladioli, was in attendance; while the bride-
groom’s son Royce saw to it that father
produced the ring at the right moment. The
wedding dinner at Petty’s was presided over
by Mrs. A. J. E. Goddard.
The Y.W.C.A. was a miniature League of
Nations the other night when the heads
staged an international reception. To it
was bidden every Consul in Sydney. Guests
and their ladies walked into the hall through
a guard of honor of attractive girls wrapped
about in the flags of all the world. The
Stars and Stripes, the flags of Czecho-
slovakia, of Greece, of Italy and Switzer-
land glowed against the white frocks of their
wearers, and Miss Fowler, who received the
guests, was handed many appreciations of
the pretty compliment. After that the in-
ternational character of the party had to
slip a bit, or the conversation might have
recalled the Tower of Babel. Rhythmic
dancing, tableaux and fencing displays
formed a mild and uninflammable entertain-
ment.
There was bunting in the lift and there
were asters and gladioli in the receptions-
rooms of the Lyceum Club for its cheerio
spread in honor of Lady de Chair. The recep-
tion was staged by the Lyceum’s president,
Mrs. A. G. Thomas, and every nook and cranny
of the club, even the roof high above the
Niagara of Hunter-street, was packed with
members. The vice-reine told of the beauties
of Honolulu and Fiji in her response to the
greeting, and then walked through to the
dining-room, where Gwen Selva and Clifford
Latlilean sang old French and English songs
as fragrant as lavender. Mrs. Betts Vin-
cent supplied some piano solos, Esther Kahn
was the accompanist, and the sound of flutes
made those on the roof feel as if they were
on some slope of Arcady. Lady de Chair’s
frock of mist-blue georgettes swung flounces
of fringe and glittered goldenly with tiny
beads. The club’s picturesque president
sported a frock that might have been com-
posed for the Muses. It was a harmony of
white satin and georgette, and dropped
pearls in lavish fashion. The charming
Poynters were one of the evening’s star
events; Mary Gilmore discussed with Elaine
de Chair a book of verse that young lady
has a mind to publish; Rose Solcy, the
club’s founder, was one of the night's import-
ant people; and Marjorie Quinn and Jessie
Urquhart combined business with pleasure
and booked several lions and lionesses for
appearances at the literary circle of which
they are now managers-in-chief.
This new Talma photograph is a typical
picture of Shirley Bavin, the Premier’s eldest
daughter, who
has just be-
come engaged
to John Bet-
tington, one of
the Merriwa
Betting ton
clan and a
brother of the
famous crick-
eter. Shirley
is just twenty-
one, and has a
c a p a c ity for
work as well
as play; wit-
ness her fre-
quent appear-
ances in an
official capacity
a t functions
during her
mother’s ill-
ness last year.
She has done
excellent work in amateur theatricals for
charity, is a great lover of animals and an
ardent supporter of the S.P.C.A. She is not
very long back from Fiji, where went
in company with Lady de Chair and Elaine.
The Narkunda has been chosen for the
scene of the Navy League Ball on April 26,
and Elaine de Chair has been elected presi-
dent of the younger set of the big commit-
tee determined to make the flutter one of the
year’s successes. Last week she took the
chair at a meeting held in the rooms of
Commissioner Garlick’s lady at the Town
Hall, and. supported by Joan and Doreen
Higgins, those two consistent workers in the
cause of the Sea Cadets, made the reason-
able request that everybody at the meeting
should dispose of six tickets. Doreen Hig-
gins is to handle the next meeting, which will
be on March 28 at noon at the same address.
The notion that each member of the general
committee should dispose of tickets may
easily become a precedent; there are too
many ladies who go on charity committees
and think their duty done if they merely
buy a couple of tickets
Nea Pike, of Bradley’s Head, slipped into
matrimony last week in company with
Armand George, of Belgium. St. Peter’s,
North Sydney, was chosen for the linking
up. The wedding dress was a souffle of lace
and chiffon, and the veil and train were a
froth of white tulle. Bride’s sisters Rita and
Brenda were in attendance, one in pink, the
other in blue-spotted net. Toasts at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. E. V. Pike, of
Mosman.
Greet the new Assistant Director of Mater-
nal and Baby
Welfare, Dr.
E 1 m a Sand •
ford - Morgan.
Dr. El m a
k nows all
about mater-
nity, not only
having made
a special
study of the
subject, but
having two
children of her
own. All last
week the wo-
men’s socie-
ties in Sydney
were eulogis-
ing the ap-
pointment, and
Major Sand-
ford - Morgan,
the lady’s hus-
band, must feel
a very proud man indeed.
Gradually the grounds of the Mater Miseri-
cordias Hospital are being invaded by the
foundations of further wings. But there’s
still room on the lawns about the private
hospital for a grand fete; and one such was
opened last week by Health Minister Dr.
Arthur. The stalls blazed under multi-colored
electrics, while clustors'of balloons straining
at the leash appeared determined to toss the
whole affair over the windmill on to the
moon, or somewhere equally irresponsible.
But Surgeon-in-chief Dan Kelly kept his
eye on the affair, and the balloons decided to
behave. The Fire Brigade’s band served out
a heady brew of music, under the influence
of which men, women and children poured
out a stream of silver, all of which goes into
buying votes for Mary Bryant, the Mater’s
Queen in the Firemen’s competition.
Gwendo. Paul, daughter of the well-liked
Dr. Paul of Sydney, came back to have a
look at her native city last week. She left
with a scholarship of the Associated Board
of Music to study in England, and has given
recitals in London as well as doing some
musical broadcasting. She returns as the
wife of Professor Harold Kyng, who has
been appointed Professor of Singing at the
Melbourne Conservatorium; the pair are
looking up the lady’s old Sydney friends
before settling down in the southern city.
Concert-manager Jack Griffiths, the big
and breezy, is off to Europe and America
at the end of this week; Friday, his last
night in Sydney, is to be spent among his
friends. The Auld Lang Syne touch is being
stage-managed by George Portus, concert-
manager of Beale’s. There is doubtfully
a room in Sydney big enough to hold all of
.Tack’s friends comfortably, but the Waldorf,
in George-street, will do its best. Jack has
never been known to quarrel with any artist,
no matter how temperamental. His life is
strewn with cuff-links and cigarette cases
and gold-embossed what-nots that world-
famed singers and musicians have thrust
upon him, starting in his infancy with Paul
Dufault. Even the somewhat haughty Alda
left him with a tear in her eye, and later
sent him from New York a gramophone set
in a celadon green cabinet that looks like
a trifle specially turned and polished for
Louis the Sixteenth.
The corridors of Lewisham were caverns
of cool shade and the marquee and the
terraces were colorful as an Eastern bazaar
when Sydney’s own Papal Countess, Mrs.
Emily Freehill, declared the hospital’s four-
day fete open last week. White-robed nuns
walked in the friendly Lewisham way among
the helpers and visitors, most of them some-
time patients of the big institution or near
relatives of those who have been. This
year’s fete is to help Mrs. W. Szarka’s can-
didature in the Firemen’s Queen competition,
and judging by the quick turnover of the
opening day the lady should be well up in
the voting. This was the first function Mrs.
Freehill has opened since her title was con-
ferred ; she came in palest pink georgette
shaded by a soft hat in the same tone. A
thoughtful committee had provided her with
an armful of pink radiance roses and blue
delphiniums across which to make her speech,
which was a record for brevity: “I declare
this fete open!” she said. But there is a
silence that is golden, and the lady's sub-
sequent performance at the stalls was just
as ducat-sweet. Eddy McTiernan spoke a
few graceful words to the multitude. Mis.
W. Szarka appeared before her would-be
subjects in a beflowered chiffon frock of
the flared and feminine variety and a
cool brimmed hat The fete had an appro-
priately-named treasurer in Miss Dimond.
Mrs. Moorfoot was the secretary and Mrs.
Anderson the president.
The Women’s Country Club in George-
street was seething with womanhood one
afternoon last week, the adherents of Myrine
Collins, who is defending her right to the
throne in the Firemen’s Queen competition.
Myrine, who represents the Hospice for the
Dying, is a tali, slim gii’l of the Spanish
senorita type. She was dressed in black
georgette, and mixed black georgette and
lace formed the outfit of Josephine Marks,
who organised the party and helped with
the musical programme, a long and varied
one, which included airs on the all-too-sel-
dom-heard harp by 13-year-old Clarence
King. Clarence is one of a trio known as
“The Three Kings’’ who look like becoming
the local equivalent of the Cherniavskys.
Mrs. E. It. Bourke, another of the organ-
isers, saw that the guests of honor received
suitable floral embellishments. New knight
Julius’s lady was among those seated in high
places, as were the Dyne, Barlow, Taylor
and Ben Fuller consorts. Commissioner
Garlick’s lady was also above the salt, as
were Mrs. J. C. Williamson, Mrs. George
Irvine and that Mrs. Harry Burrell whose
husband knows all about the platypus. The
tireless Miss Crichton Imrie, who dashes
across the world at a minute’s notice, is
hack again after safely convoying heiress
Joan Norton to London, and made one of
the tea-drinking hundreds. .
At the first meeting of the Golden Fleece
Free Kindergarten held this year the director
reported a full roll on the opening day. To
meet expenses the committee decided to hold
a fete towards the end of the year and a
bridge and mah-jongg party immediately—it
is to happen at the White City on March
20, at 2 p.m. Mrs. Chapman (FM 3500)
will be glad to hear of anyone wishing to
book tables.
The Fellowship of Australian Writers will
hold a meeting on Wednesday, March 20, at
8 p.m., in the Assembly Room, Education
Building, Bridge-street. Mrs. Mary Gilmore
will speak on authoress “Dorothy Cottrell”:
W. M. Fleming’s subject will he “Aspects of
Australian Literature”; and Dulcie Deamer
will talk about “Cave-Men Yesterday and
To-day.” Professor Le Gay Brereton will
preside.
The late William Henry Chard, a Sydney
woolbuyer, has created a precedent by leaving
legacies to four of his former typistes. The
ladies, all of whom are now married, receive
amounts varying according to the length of
their service from £3OO to £5O.
An arrival by the Moutoro was Mrs.
John Mullahy, of Natava plantation, Rabaul,
Mrs. Mullahy is staying with her mother,
Mrs. A. F. Saunders 27 Cowles-road,
Mosman.
It’s a case of “On with the dance!” as
far as the charity worker is concerned. The
Government has decided that the hospitals
are to be carried on by the voluntary system,
and no special levy on the community is to
be made. Which means, of course, that the
good-natured and the humanitarian will con-
tinue to jazz and treasure-hunt through
youth and middle-age that the sick may be
healed. It means that the business-girl and
-hoy (the backbone of all charity gaieties, an
organiser confessed to this Letter the other
day) will go on arranging week-end tourna-
ments and bankers’ balls and such, thereby
assisting the work of Cupid, absorbing the
stocks of Hatton 'Garden, giving a lift to
the emerald-gougers of Queensland and the
opal-getters of Lightning Ridge, bringing
in a harvest of wedding fees to the Church,
and keeping up the demand for social writers
on the papers. This Letter may yet royster
in its Rolls.
Pretty Phyllis Yale, daughter of the Ilar-
rie Vales, of Strathfield, has timed her
wedding for the second of April at St.
James’s Church in King-street. Afterwards
David Jones's big ballroom threatens to be
a tight squeeze for the friends of the family
bidden to rejoice. The young man is Cecil
W. Schartl.
The New Australian is a cheerful little
monthly published by the Big Brothers in the
interests of their Little Brothers in this
spreading continent. One of its features is a
long list of changed addresses, and there are
letters telling of the daily round, and photo-
graphs of the youngsters at work and play.
The paper is sent free to all the newchums.
“A.G.M.” writes: —
Madame Cianehi, who was Miss Hallenstein of
the Michaelis Hallenstein M.L. family, has left Italy
for London, where she has a house in Hampstead.
Several members of her clan are over from Aus-
tralasia, which explains her visit. Madame Cianehi
has artistic tastes, to which she gives full rein in
her Italian home. Her husband is a scientist of
her Italian home. Her husband is a scientist.


j Om
muni##
This C.arment it guaranteed perfect manufacture.
Examine thoroughly before washing and if
defective return to More from which it wat
purchased with docket, within 7 days.
9'<0 e, / fe
(In Liq.) >
l SYDNEY, N.S.W. A
VW unl/u
M UhiMew
c Solid's
Ghariri
SILK RAYON UNDERWEAR
Perfection
ƑG
"Charm” Vest i
with opera top*
and fabric shoul-
From 5/11
The Gorgeous Colorings, the Perfect
Fit and Thorough Workmanship,
place, “Charm’’ far and away ahead
of all other underwear.
Now with the Guarantee you are
gi ven Extra Security at the Same Price
F
"Charm” Bloom*
ers, perfectly tail-'
ored.
From 6/ 1 1
ƑG
"‘Charm" Princes*
Slips, in delight*
ful tones. .
From l I O
Faultless fabric—per-
fect knitting makes
“Charm” the best Rayon
Silk Underwear pro*
duced in Australia.
F
It is the Extra Body
in this Super Rayon
Fabric that gives so
much added wear.
•■Cham)" Pyjamas
In two styles. Sleeveless with low
neck, and short sleeves, in smart
two-lone effects. , _ , , .
From 19/11
i i
"Charm” Nighties
smartly cut, no
sleeves, low neck.
From 17/11
Be sure and see Bond’s Fixed
Price Tab and Guarantee on
Every Garment.
MADE BY THE EMPLOYEES OR
GEORGE A. BOND & CO. LTD. (inliq.)
SYDNEY, N.S.W., AUSTRALIA.


; iii • 1 'ov
Hi
m
>v
m\»
m I
1
!*■* 1 JSIIEO 6 BO' aF.O
J*r,.^' : -! jggsj If I ftCCRAL
'* - T' r 2, VI MFI 60U«M&==^
-* «?. t
48$
mm
r\
/\
/V/N
mm
/
§0
«e
l«Ot An»ly*lv I
M »* ***.*?
Ml
*\
%
M
6&&54
<S
£
s*
W
n
vs
m n mm
Ml
4
mm,
i
T.a
i
//
%
;;;;;: i
i^'ii
I
is
i •11 n*i M iii*niii
/
improvement in Crystal Court Dry Gin
over all otlier existing types kas been secured
by exkaustive researck and modern distillation
metkods. It is quadruple distilled for purity ; is,
as its name implies, u as clear as Crystal,” and kas
a unique flavor in wkick tke aromatic elements
are beautifully balanced.
In tkis gin will be found a spirit of individu-
ality, ideal from botk tke beverage and medicinal
points of view. We believe tkat, by skeer merit,
it will win a place in popularity second to none.
Crystal Court Dry Gin is now
obtainable at all Hotel bars, Bottle
Departments and Licensed Stores:


fs\
. 'Mi
\jk 4&1
N. Hi
■c-
M
7 i
JAM
Wwwmm y
m
- :w?
n»mu t
/
/./A
ir
akV>'\
Mi
m
CAIRO
Illustrated literature and Fare
Lists obtainable from Orient
Line Offices or Agencies.
APART from the great relics of
history and tradition, Cairo is
a never - ending interest and excite-
ment. Streets and bazaars, bright
with the motley of many nations,
resonant with the tongues of a
hundred races, enthrall the observer.
Nearby, the Nile, studded with
romantic dahabeahs; along the
banks, shadoofs, lifting .water for
the fields, as in the days o/ the
patriarchs. Orient Line travellers
are carried by special excursion
from Suez, and rejoin the ship at
Port Said.
And Egypt is only one of the
Orient Line’s several ports of
call on the voyage to England.
ORIENT LINE
O
: r N
Queg.n Anne. Shape
Her
Honoured Quests
thin cups and
saucers of
Shelley China are a mark of
quality: it is in compliment
to her guests that a lady gives
them Tea in ware that a
Queen might be proud of.
English bone China and
the craftsmanship tradition-
al at Shelley’s are the secret
of this perfection.
Ask to see the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morninc Sets
Dainty White
♦ China
Nursery Ware
Lf Lucie Attweu
sHilda Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
I CASE OP ANY DIPPICULTY IN
WRIT* TO
T%W. HEATH C CO. CTO,
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE ----3 d.
It deals v ith every subject of
interest to women.
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S : HIT THE DECK.
ROYAL: THE WRECKER.
CRITERION: YOUNG WOODLEY.
PALACE: WHITE COLLARS.
WORLD’S GREATEST WOMAN
VIOLINIST,
ERICA MORINI
ERICA MORINI
ERICA MORINI
The wonderful Viennese genius.
“It is no idle claim that she is the greatest
living woman violinist.” —London Daily Sketch.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Direction E. J. CARROLL.
SATURDAY, MARCH 30; also APRIL 4, 6 and 9.
Preliminary Booking at Nicholsons’ Box Office.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
* MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT SONG.
ROYAL:
MARGARET BANNERMAN in
THE MARIONETTES.
MEW COMEDY THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
RUTH NUGENT and ALLAN BUNCE in
APPLESAUCE.
£1 NG S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LEON GORDON in
THE FLYING SQUAD.
rj oYT ’S DETUXE THEATRE,
n MELBOURNE.
HENRY EDWARD in
THE FURTHER ADVENTURES OF
THE FLAG-LIEUTENANT.
ALSO
VERA REYNOLDS in
THE MAIN EVENT.
The Little Sisters
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The Welsh Society had its St. David’s
Day dinner in the Jenolan Cafe. Lieut.-Gov-
ernor Lennon was there, and president E. A.
Rawson proposed his health. There was
some good singing, Mrs. A. Beecham,
Gwladys Evans, Gwenda Stewart, Stan
Lewis and lanto .Tones contributing; and
Raddie Davis, an Eisteddfod prize-winner,
recited.
Canon Oakely tied the knot between Fran-
cis Harold, son of the Penfolds of North
Sydney, to Nancy, daughter of the late Ger-
ald Boyce and of Mrs. Boyce, Toowoomba.
St. Luke’s was decked with shasta daisies
and yellow coreopsis. The bride wore a
period frock of ivory satin and georgette,
and her veil was of ivory tulle bound with
orange buds. She carried frangipanni in
a gold holder. Page Freshney, E. Penfold,
Margaret Hall and Sylvia Bernays ’maided
in picture gowns of buttercup organdie over
satin, with wide hats of leghorn trimmed
with buttercup pansies. Their bouquets were
of tiger lilies, roses and dahlias in vary-
ing yellows. The Club Hotel saw the feasting.
Lawrence Fagan, who died at 96. planted
the big trees that now shadow the Supreme
Court grounds. He did it to provide cool
shade for his carpenter’s shop, which was
on the site of the present court. He was
the police carpenter for 35 years, and bore
the title of senior-sergeant. He built the
first frame-house in Brisbane, which was cut
and stacked here and then sent to Thursday
Island, where it became the first police
station in that part of the territory. Many
of the stations Fagan built have stood for
70 years.
The lady with the laughing eyes is Doris
Booth, a Brisbane girl who went with her
husband to the wilds of New Guinea in the
pmneering days of the Bulolo and Edie Creek
goldfields. When she was not actually min-
ing she was
persuading re-
luctant canni-
bals to carry,
her stores. She
ran an impro-
vised hospital
to deal with
a n outbreak
of dysentery
amongst min-
ers and nat-
ives. She was
Nurse Doris
Wilde, of Bris-
bane H’ospital,
before her
marriage, and
she was well
qualified for
her volunteer
job. The lady
has been speci-
ally thanked
by the Adminis-
tration of New Guinea, and the Federal Par-
liament and League of Nations have thrown
bouquets at her. Round her Papuan experi-
ences she has written a book which has been
published in London. Critics, the cables tell
us, praise it for its sustained interest and
graphic style.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Peggy, one of the Lance Archer twins, of
St. Leonards, made a pretty bride as she
came down the aisle with Frere Youl, of
Perth, at St. John’s, Launceston. Her
frock was of white georgette, pouched over
a deep waistband and sewn with iridescent
crystal and Nile blue stones. The long train
of chenille-embossed georgette was lined
with palest blue and fastened to the shoulders
with rhinestone buckles, and the net veil,
a family possession lent by her aunt Mrs.
Wayn, was clasped round the head by two
bands of diamente and caught with clus-
ters of orange blossom at the back. Her twin,
Betty Archer, and Edith Youl followed in
shell-pink georgette frocks with long points
on the skirts and silver bows with long ends
on the shoulders. A wee trainbearer, Barbara
Archer, all in pink, looked like a rosebud.
Another northern wedding of interest was
that of Alfred Henry, of Devonport, to Gwen-
neth, eldest daughter of Mr. and Mrs. F. Pike,
of Chatswood, Sydney, at St. Aidan’s, Laun-
ceston. The bride’s frock of ice-white georg-
ette was set off by a Iloniton-lace veil over 100
years old, lent by Mrs. R. R. Viney. Cicely
Tyson (Sydney) and Nancy Cuff (Launces'-
ton) ’maided in primrose-gold georgette, with
long tight bodices and uneven drapes at the
side, topped by wide pale green summer felt
hats.
A committee of reps, from the Listeners’
League, the Radio Research Club and the
P ; and T. Electricians’ Union, with Walter
Woods, M.H.A., as chairman and Fire Bri-
gade Deputy-Super. Jv T orman Skinner as hon.
sec., is busy installing wireless at Hobart
Hospital. The money for* the' equipment
(nearly £600) was raised by public subs, at
the instance of the Mercury and the local
broadcasting station, 7ZL. Though the P.
and T. men (who are voluntarily doing the
practical work) are only available on Satur-
day afternoons, the task of handling some-
thing like eight miles of wire, fixing between
300 and 400 headphones and pillow-phones,
and setting up the necessary amplifiers,
modulators, switches, etc., is steadily march-
ing on.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The mercury boiled up to well over 103 deg.
for Nor’-West Day. Sunburned pastoralists
from our jumbuck and cattle lands said “this
isn’t hot” and played cricket all day against
the Murchison team. There was a men's
luncheon in the marquee, and by tea-time
the grandstand had filled up with a lightly-
clad fan-waving feminine element. President
of the Pastoralists’ Association Ernest Lee
Steere welcomed Robert McMillan and his
lady. Mrs. Edgar Meares looked cool in
pea-green heavily embossed in black, and her
sister, Mrs. Ted Lukin, who accompanied
her, was in flowered ninon. A floral pattern
was also chosen by Mrs. Sherlock Meares;
Mrs. Fred Senior wore pink of the primula;
Mrs. Gilbert Elliott, tucks of delpliinium-blue ;
Mrs. Hubert Miller, pink voile; and Mrs.
Stawell, bright blue crepe contrasted with a
crimson handbag. Stella Meagher was in
navy, Jean Loton in a French gown of beige
romaine and Mrs. Tom Barker in draperies
of flesli-pink georgette.
Everyone was happy at the W. A. Club
ball. Some of the tanned Nor’-Westers at
the frisk had not been so far south for a
couple of years and had the time of their
lives, hailing old friends, making new ones
and out-dancing the youth of the city. The
club rooms were festive with flags, Chinese
lanterns, balloons and greenery, and the
supper was spread under bowls of asters and
roses. Among the merry-makers greeted by
the Matthew Goodes were Mr. and Mrs.
Gordon Craig, the Ernest Chenerys, Mr. and
Mrs. Oakley and their daughter, Mervyn
and John Forrest and their wives, the Hubert
Millers, Mr. J. L. B. Weir, his wife and
daughter, and Mr. and Mrs. Charlie French.
Instead of the customary kitchen or
hankie tea, Joan Good packed a hamper and
invited a host of girl friends to a swimming
picnic at Cottesloe. Joan Hodge, who slips
off her maiden name for that of Mrs. Rex
Norrie during this week, was the principal
guest. Seagulls and the land-crabs which
scuttle among the Cottesloe bulrushes had
an eyeful of charades, in which Romeo and
Juliet, Portia and Shylock, the infant Moses,
George Washington, Queen Elizabeth and
St. Peter figured. Among the actresses were
Molly Beck, Doreen O’Hara, Violet and
Mavis Holmes, Mrs. Stevenson, Mrs. Gilbert
Elliott, Eva and Vera Saw, Stella Meagher,
Kay and Jean Smith and Dorothy Summer-
ha yes.
At the Repertory Club’s first social of the
year there was such a good attendance that
late-comers sat on the floor or overflowed on
to the balcony. The programme was made
up of a variety of short items—musical num-
bers, recitations, monologues and playlets in
verse and prose. Mrs. Treadgold, Moyra
Tivey, Marcia Hodges, Helen Ambrose,
Dorothy Bird, Molly Ick and Florence Besley
were among the entertainers.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The Holdens’ garden was all aglow for
a beginning-of-the-scason garden party—
petunias, phlox and zinnias, with roses and
hollyhocks as a background, despite a month
of blistering heat and a vilely dry summer.
Mrs. Ilblden, in beige satin, had as A.D.C.
her daughter, in maize yellow. Two guests
demonstrated the possibilities of the latest
tone of red, one in crepe de Chine and the
other in georgette.
The exodus oversea continues, and includes
some of the most popular members of the
younger set. The Frank Youngs’ daughter,
Audrey, is off to Ceylon, where she will stay
at Kandy with Mrs. Vigne; Miss Ada Bony-
thon is going to England with Mr. and Mrs.
S. B. Rudall, and Margaret Craven, of
McLaren Vale, has her luggage labelled for
the Mongolia. There was a good-bye party
for Mrs. Rudall at St. Corantyn, with Mrs.
Lavington Bonython as hostess; and at the
Wentworth Mrs. Gordon Taylor and Mrs.
Ernest Jolly gave a bridge party for Mrs.
Monte Jackman and Miss Gwen, also bound
oversea.
The Red Cross Sewing Circle, founded by
Mrs. Glover when she was mayoress, re-
cently turned its attention to the Children’s
Hospital and has just taken stock of its work,
nearly 10€0 articles, from face-washers to
pneumonia jackets—not a bad record for
eight months’ work. Funds are subscribed
by members of the circle (the average atten-
dance is 18) and supporters of the hospital.
Young Lochinvar, who came out of the
West, and who beat all-comers in a point-
to-point event
reported by the
noted sporting
writer W.
Scott, has in-
flamed the
musical imagi-
nation of the
pleasant-faced
gentleman
whose portrait
decorates this
p a r a g r a ph.
He’s Winsloe
Hall, one of
the dons of
our Uni. Con.,
and his roman-
tic comic opera
in three acts
based on the
abduction epi-
sode will have
its first public
performance at the Theatre Royal to-morrow
evening. The show is under v.-r. patronage,
and, according to those who have been re-
hearsing it, “Lochinvar” is quite a notable
addition to Australia’s very thin array of
operatic compositions.
Harold Denton is to play the comedy part
in “Lochinvar” at the Theatre Royal—a
stroke of luck for composer and producer, as
the new member,of the Con.’s teaching staff
has had London stage experience.
Clare is bemoaning the loss of Dr. and
Mrs. Godfrey, who are leaving that pic-
turesque village for the El Dorado of W.A.
Mrs. Godfrey’s luggage includes a present
from the Girl Guides, whose Commissioner
she w’as, and a farewell bridge partv was
given by Mr. and Mrs. Charles Wilcox a
night or two before they left.
Greta Callow was soloist at the Lyceum
Club’s farewell to Maude Puddy and Mrs.
E. M. Heath, and Irene Kemp was there to
P la J- The club’s president, Mrs. Charles
lodd, did the honors, and there were a
couple of competitions as a prelude to supper


“first
thing
every
mornin
V
\\
SS V V^'?* '' *V
V
•VIX ■■%>:•
—m
a\V
lhuj
For generations the practice* of taking
Eno’s “Fruit Salt” first thing every morn-
ing has been the golden rule of healthy
living among sensible people.
Eno helps your system, in Nature’s
own way, to free itself regularly of its
daily waste, and sees to it that your
blood-stream is always clean and
vigorous. Leads to a fuller enjoy-
ment of every minute of your daily life.
And Eno does its work so pleasantly.
The idea that only unpleasant purga-
tive mineral salts can be good for you
has long been exploded. In this climate
nothing can really take the place of
Eno with its beneficial effect upon the
whole system.
In two sizes at Chemists and Stores.
To celebrate their Diamond Jubilee, J. C. Eno Ltd., have collected into a book sixty of Mr. Punch’s inimitable illustrations
—one for each year from 1868 to 1927. It shows in an amusing and attractive way how manners and hab ts have changed.
Sent post free for 3d in stamps. The British Harold F. Ritchie & Co., Ltd., 333 George Street, Sydney, N.S.fV.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
*1
British
made
aaaana Mtaid
“THE AGE”
Established 185
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age’’ is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their atten-
tion that which is required in their home or
business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial newspaper,
with an atmosphere of individual and personal
appeal.
Price lUd. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes Over 1,000,000 Advertise-
ments Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
PERCY MARKS,
.TRAVELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emera:ds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
X
You cam Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess Insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNEi.L STREET, SYDNEY
Ci-
<r
1228
mNCHesTm
TRADE HARK
Rifles are
fast, accurate,
dependable arms
WINCHESTER .22 caliber
rifles and ammunition are
made with the same care and atten-
tion to shooting results as Winches-
ter high power rifles and ammunition.
Always use Winchester ammunition
in Winchester rifles —they are made
for each other.
SAFE SURE ACCURATE
For sale by dealers everywhere
WMCfimm
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO.
New Haven, Conn., U. S. A.
* Jit
S3
In Days of Old
White hair was
all the vogue.
In modern days
grey or white
hair is consid-
ered a sign of
appr o a ch i ng
age.
It is NOT THE
THING."
All traces of Grey can readily be removed
by an application of
Dr. Allen’s (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Sold at all Chemists and Stores.
Harmless, easy
to apply, can-
not be detected
Australian Agents:
DUERDIN AND
SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street,
Melbourne.
ƑG
ASTHMA
Catarrh,Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough,
Colds in the Head
Yield at once
to the soothing
fumes of
F
ASTHMA
2/6 per Tin from all Medicine
Vendors
POTTER & CLARKE. LTD-
Artillery Lane. London. Eng.
For outdoors use
Potter s SMOKING
MIXTURE and
CIGARETTES
Ƒ
G
Ƒ
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
THIS SAFE EASY WAY
Instant relief from stomacli distress —and a quick
return to complete stomach health—if you take Para-
Pepsin. You cannot get such good results with
anti-acids. Para-Pepsin is a natural remedy that
ensures the proper digestion of the food and stops
the possibility of harmful stomach acidity. But if
you take anti-acids you simply stop the result of
the trouble —while the trouble itself goes on. Para-
Pepsin is a safe, sure remedy for indigestion,
gastritis, dyspepsia, gas and pain after eating. It
lets you eat what you want when you want it, and
costs” but a rrifle at any chemist’s. Note the name
Para-Pepsin carefully if you want a really prompt
and effective remedy for digestive disturbance.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.


•for a good
/ nights rest
*/ take
it will ensure
a good dags
In 4 sizes WOrk
oFall Chemists
and Stores
“WALLARINGA” MANSIONS
A
m m
NEUTRAL BAY, SYDNEY.
UNDER ENTIRELY NEW MANAGEMENT.
Occupying as it does, one of the picked
positions and absolutely the healthiest
on the shores of Sydney Harbor, quiet
and secluded, and within a short
distance of the City.
The Mansions are exceptionally well
built, having fine airy rooms over-
looking Sydney’s beautiful harbor;
also Lounges, Smoking Rooms, Tennis,
Croquet, Swimming Baths, Ball Room,
Guests’ Laundry, Electric Light.
The “Wallaringa” Mansions stand in
a fine position in Neutral Bay, and
the grounds and gardens are well kept.
During the day the views from “Wal-
laringa” are glorious, and at night
the myriad lights, across the harbor
and on the numerous Ferrv Boats,
make a fairy-like scene that world-
wide travellers say is unequalled any-
where.
To maintain the reputation of these
well-known Mansions, guests are well
attended to and have every conveni-
ence and comfort. Correspondence
and Telegrams punctually attended to.
Terms from £3/3/- per week.
Apply, The Manager.
’Phones: X 2239, X 2267.
Telegrams: “Wallaringa, Sydney.” '
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
Cffl
l
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
‘‘An appropriate conjunction in view of
the business we have in hand. Marie Car-
ducci! The Witch!” Mr. Deacon repeated
with ironical humor.
Without further comment he rapidly
wrote: “Pay to Marie Carducci, on her per-
sonal application, the sum of twenty-five
pounds and upon her producing evidence
that the boat called the Witch owned by
the peddler”
“Your Christian name?”
“Antonio,” growled the Italian.
“Antonio • Carducci,” continued Mr.
Deacon writing, “is in the river Darling,
at Bourke, any time within the next six
months.”
Mr. Deacon read the document over to
the Italian.
“I think that will do. I’ll stamp it, and
make arrangements with my banker for
its payment.”
Having filled in the formal particulars he
handed it to Carducci and pointed to the
door. “Now go 1” he said.
Carducci went as if he were expecting to
be kicked.
“The damned rogue!” said Mr. Deacon
putting the writing materials in their place.
Chapter V.
Gerald listened with amused interest to
his father’s story of his interview with the
Italian. A smile played over his face when
he heard how the payment of the twenty-
five pounds was to wait until the Darling
River at Bourke was navigable.
“That I promised to pay twenty-five
pounds to suppress a scandal appears to
amuse you?”
Mr. Deacon spoke with a intonation
that was only half successful in concealing
his intense irritation. His son was disturbed
when his quick ear caught the tone in his
father’s voice.
“I was only amused,” he explained, “at
Tony’s hide in coming to you, a Justice of
the Peace. He was, if he had only known
it, running a big risk of your telephoning
for the police. It was picturing his surprise
if you had done so that caused me to smile.
I am surprised myself that you did not tell
him to go to the Devil. I would have done
so.”
“That impetuosity, Gerald, is the cause
of most of your troubles. See how your
indiscretion has involved you with question-
able characters in this case.”
“When a Dago comes at you with a knife,
I take it he gives you enough provoca-
tion”—
“You gave the provocation,” the father
answered sharply. “You were meeting this
Italian’s daughter secrefiy. I would like
to ask you, did you propose to marry her?”
“Well, no! I didn’t!”
“You were amusing yourself, then, play-
ing with loaded dice in the dangerous game
of passion.”
“Oh, blow it, you put it too seriously,”
exclaimed Gerald, impatiently.
“I think not. Its seriousness must be
apparent to you by this time. The man is
right, so far as his position is concerned;
it is his methods that are wrong. You, on
the contrary, have not a leg to stand on.
Suppose I had a daughter and such a thing
occurred, do you suppose I would take no
action?”
“That would be different!” replied Gerald.
“I fail to see it. I know the distinction
you are suggesting, but it does not exist
where the passions are involved. Every
man has an inalienable right to protect the
honor of his daughter.”
“I had no designs on the honor of his
daughter.”
“How was he to know that? I think
the evidence is against you. Your letter
—how many letters did you write to tho
girl?”
Gerald lied. He thought his father was
going too far.
“One, Dad. The Dago’s got only one!”
he replied.
“Thank Heaven for that, though it’s one
too many,” said his father, producing the
letter and tearing it into small fragments
and tossing them into the empty fireplace.
“That letter,” continued his father, indi-
cating the fragments, “reeked of passionate
love. Were you not a fool to write such a
thing? It absolutely negatives any inno-
cent interpretation, or at the best, or the
worst, it shows you are on the very brink
of a folly that you would regret when your
passion cooled. Perhaps now you see why
I did not tell the fellow to go to the Devil.
He was within his rights in coming here.
He had a grievance and the proof of it.
He was most offensive, most offensive to
me. This room reeked of garlic and bad
tobacco when he was gone. But with all
his offensiveness I would not have improved
the position by refusing to hear what he
had to say. When he showed that he was
a clumsj' blackmailer I still had to be waiy
how I dealt with him. I had to consider
your prospects, since you are so careless
of them yourself. To advertise such a
scandal would be tantamount to your ruin.
If a whisper of it reached your uncle’s ears
in London, the chances of your legacy would
certainl}' be jeopardised. Do you forget
that you have English cousins v'ho have
as much claim on your uncle as you have?”
“I’m, not waiting for a dead man’s shoes!
I don t care if he doesn’t leave me a
bean!” Gerald cried explosively.
Nor his brother, either, apparently.”
Gerald felt the sting of his father’s thrust
and remained silent.
Am I not right in what I say?” asked
his father.
Instead of answering the question, his
son said, “You have formed a wrong opinion
about the girl. She is not what you seem
to suppose.”
Her father and his methods hardly pre-
possess one in her favor,” replied. Mr.
Deacon sharply.
“Probably not; but she’s square, whatever
her father is. She’s an educated girl, and
well educated, too, in her own way. She
speaks French fluently. You may not know
it, Dad—l don’t suppose you do, it’s not
m your line—but an intelligent girl, edu-
cated and trained in a convent school, can
hold her own anywhere.”
“You are trying to persuade me that this
girl, from such a father, is like a grape from
a thorn?”
“I don’t know that I am,” retorted Gerald
somewhat hotly. “I judge the girl as she
is, not for what her father is. Her mother
is a Frenchwoman, and a very decent
woman, too, from all I’ve heard about her.
Do you think Betty Caleroft would have
invited Marie Carducci to their court for
tennis if the girl was not all right, or that
Mrs. Caleroft herself would have asked her
to take afternoon tea? They thought more
of her than as only a grapepicker in their
employ.”
“Did Mrs. Caleroft do that?” asked Mr.
Deacon with a look of surprise.
“Yes, she did!” replied Gerald. “You
see, the Calcrofts like the girl and her
pluck, while they are sorry she has such a
father. The Calcrofts are Australians, Dad,
and that’s the difference between them and
—and you.”
“You are a very warm partisan. But that
is only being consistent after writing the
letter you did to the. young lady,” observed
Mr. Deacon, with dry emphasis.
“I’ll stick up for the girl, of course; and,
anyway, she’s entitled to a fair spin. I told
you, Dad, she was not to blame. I went
after her”
“And her father came after me!” added
Mr. Deacon grimly.
“Oh well, that’s over!” said his son with
his characteristic optimism, shrugging his
shoulders.
Mr. Deacon could not help smiling.
Gerald had such a lack of the sense of
responsibility, with a naive gift for thrust-
ing unpleasant things behind him. Yet the
father was secretly pleased that his son had
stood up for the girl. He thought that at
least might be expected from a thorough-
bred. The Deacons had never let their
women down, so far as he knew; he was
afraid some of them in the “bad old times”
—but what happened in England long ago
had nothing to do with what was taking
place on the banks of the Murray at present.
Of course Gerald had in his blood his in-
heritances, but his father could not believe
that such a riot of passion as Gerald seemed
to have in his veins could have had its
source in his own ascetic temperament.
Mr. Deacon cleared his throat. That was
always a preliminary before' he said un-
pleasant things. He took a comprehensive
survey of Gerald, who was a well-tailored
young man, bearing the mark of the Deacon
breeding. Gerald had a family likeness to
his great grand-uncle, Lord Broadmeadows.
He might have sat for Broadmeadows’ port-
rait, painted by Raeburn, now amongst the
present Lord Broadmeadows’ art treasures
and family heirlooms in London. Gerald
had also inherited some of his mother’s
beauty. His frank, well-shaped mouth, with
its winning smile displaying a row of even
white teeth, was reminiscent of her.
With himself and his boy Mr. Deacon
thought the world would have moved very
differently had his wife not died three
years after the birth of Gerald. London
life, with its round of gaieties, had then
become intolerable to him. He took his
boy to the Riviera, but absence from Lon-
don did not deaden the sense of loss. His
health became affected and Harley-street
prescribed a voyage to Australia. The
change, the rest, the sea voyage, it was said,
would do him more good than physic. Time
alone could blunt his acute sense of deso-
lation. In the end Mr. Deacon went to
Australia and later settled in Mildura and
found interest in planning his son’s career.
Gerald was like an untamed colt, kicking
up his heels through sheer animal spirits.
The only discipline he felt, apparently, was
the discipline he was under when he was
at his studies in Melbourne.
Vacation periods were a recurrent source
of anxiety to his father. Gerald, he thought,
was far too popular with young women; he
had too many strings to his bow, and he
became involved too often.
Gerald’s father told him now that he had
inherited a fair share of the family brains.
Their ancestors had used them in the service
of the Empire. With their birth and breed-
ing a mesalliance was improbable; indeed,
he believed there was not a case of a Deacon
marrying anyone in a social position inferior
to his own.
Gerald made an impatient gesture. “I
do not want, Dad, to irritate jmu, or to
say anything that you may think offensive,
but this ‘birth and breeding’ business leaves
me cold.”
Mr. Deacon looked pained.
“It doesn’t go down in Australia, Dad,”
his son continued, “though you refuse to
recognise it. I have always believed a useful
mongrel is better than a pure-bred dog that
is merely ornamental, even if he has a pedi-
gree of a hundred prize-winners behind him.
The right sort of mongrel, I mean; no in-
breeding and nerves, but a fighter who will
face any odds from bush-fires, droughts and
floods to men and five-rail fences. Such a
‘mongrel’ as Jack Carew. What breeding has
Jack? Gad, I’d give my breeding to any-
one who’s fool enough to value it to be
as good a man as Jack Carew!”
“The Carews,” his father answered, “are
a very decent bush people, and I know that
they are estimable in every way. I cer-
tainly like Jack, a manly fellow, though I
see so little of him in the town. But we
are wandering. We are not discussing the
Carews or their lack of breeding. Do you
know, Gerald, that you are costing me eight
pounds a week, education and keep—eight
pounds—beyond the pound I allow you for
pocket money? In addition to that there
is the three pounds, the weekly income of
the legacy your good mother left you. How
much do you save out of it?”
“Very little, I’m afraid, Dad. A fellow
has expenses at the University; and then
there are his town expenses—tennis, golf,
rowing, they all take money. A Deacon
cannot, of course, stand out of such things.
If I wasn’t a Deacon I might”
“Ah,” said his father, “you have the
Deacons’ sense of subtle banter, if you have
not the Deacons’ sense of the eternal con-
ventionalities.”
Mr. Deacon admitted to himself that
he was partly at fault for some of Gerald’s
tastes. He had encouraged him, when a
boy, in his great love of horses. Now that
love had become a source of peril. Gerald
was too keenly interested in the Went-
worth races, too eager to get a mount as
an amateur rider. His purchase of a
foal, on the advice of Jack Carew, a foal
from a well-bred mare that came from the
Monaro country, was an instance of how his
weakness for horseflesh was getting hold of
him. He even proposed to train the colt if
it fulfilled its promise and race it at Flem-
ington. Gerald was almost childish in his
assertion when remonstrated with for buying
the foal, that he could pick winners, even in
their long-legged stage of awkwardness. Mr.
Deacon, as a young man at Epsom and
Ascot, had tried to pick winners, too, and
he knew something of “the game.”
“Do you include that twenty pounds you
paid for the young colt in‘town expenses’?”
asked his father.
“The colt, Dad, w r as a bargain. Really
he was. I couldn’t help buying the little
fellow, a flier all right.”
“Did you pay cash for him?”
“No, I gave two bills of ten pounds each.
The last is due next week.” He hesitated
a moment. “In fact, Dad, I thought of
asking you to give me my quarter’s allow-
ance in advance this time.”
“That is awkward,” said his father. “Be-
cause I thought of asking you to forego £lO
of your quarter’s allowance until the money
I have promised to pay the Italian is pro-
vided for.”
“That won’t, be due for a long time,”
cheerfully remarked Gerald.
“Do you bet?” asked his father.
“I only bet, Dad, in a small way, just
enough to give me an interest in the race,”
his son replied, trying to minimise his un-
advertised visits to Sandown P,ark, Moonee
Valley and Flemington.
“I was simple enough to think you were
m Melbourne for the purpose of education
—to prepare for your 8.A.?”
“I’m sorry,” he replied. “I know I must
look like a rotter to you, Dad, but I’m not
quite as bad as that. I have no serious
debts. I pay my way.”
“Do you? Well, let’s see how far you
do? Is there no debt due to me?”
“You are pretty hard on me,” said his son,
feeling his-position.
“That’s what the Italian said to me. Now,
look—do you honestly think I’m hard on
you?”
“No, Dad, I don’t. I’ve been jolly hard
on you. Will you accept my promise of
amendment?” he asked, offering his hand.
Mr. Deacon took his son’s outstretched
hand. “I’m glad of that, my boy,” he said.
His father pointed out to Gerald that his
own income, which he received from Lon-
don, ceased at his death. His object, he
explained, in giving Gerald the chance of
a good education was to provide for his
son’s future in a way that was in keeping
with his natural endowments and the status
of their English relations. It was neces-
sary for Gerald to understand clearly that
outside his mother’s legacy he had no
sources of income except any that his own
talents and industry might create. It was
true his uncle might leave him some money,
but no young man ever did any good who
did not rise above the indecent thing of
waiting for a man to die. Any expecta-
tions, in Gerald’s case, were very much in
the air.
Betty Calcroft.
“By the way,” said Mr. Deacon, “how
came Miss Calcroft to be dragged into this
deplorable affair?”
“Just because Betty’s Betty. She saw the
distress the girl was in about her father,
and she offered to drive him to their boat
in her motor-car. Carducci was a bit
'groggy’ from drink and the blow I had
to give him, so I helped him into the car.
I saw there was no trouble in him for the
girls, so I left them. Betty assured me she
could manage.”
“Gerald, you are missing your oppor-
tunity,” said his father. “I wonder that a
young man like you does not use his
eyes.”
After that subtle remark Mr. Deacon lit
his pipe, and puffed contemplatively. The
“carpeting” of Gerald was finished/
* * =!: *
Ever ready to cast behind unpleasant
memories, Gerald’s thoughts wandered into
speculations about Marie. Had the Witch
returned to the wharf? Had she gone up,
or down, the river? Surely he would look
once more into the depths of Marie’s
luminous eyes, and feel the warmth of her
embrace! If the boat had gone to Bourkc,
he speculated, he might not have a chance
to see her until after the rivers had risen.
(Continued on page 53.)


Another delicious Rex
Salmonelle Savoury
Roties a la Minime.
Cut slices of stale bread
into rounds, and fry a gold-
en brown. Spread with
Salmonelle. Slice some
tomatoes and put a piece
on each round; season
with pepper and salt. Cut
some REX bacon into very
thin slices; roll each slice
so that it meets in the
middle; place on top of
tomatoes. Cook in the
oven until bacon is done.
Salmonelle is a very choice
REX fish paste with a de-
lightfully delicate flavour.
It is quite unlike the
ordinary fish paste and
very superior. It is de-
licious for sandwiches.
saNor
|ivc>v m Vs *0
xiln ’
;..,:^f^illDniiiiiiiii
a;
gSCKr V Y'
evV*'*•>■»'*'» -»*»•»•» -r «nJ, *
"'*2^
wife
CD
N
i a
re
; l
s ** /
' </ Ssinop nos^^
In dainty
glass jars
Other REX Sandwich Delicacies.
REX Luncheon Cheese, in 4oz. & 2oz. tins & porcelain jars
REX-PYE, in lib & tins REX Ham and Tongue
REX Ham Pate, 2oz. & tins REX Veal and Bacon
REX Veal and Tongue Pate REX Anchovy Paste
REX Devilled Ham REX Bloater Paste
Always say REX
FOGGITT JONES PTY. LTD.
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon.
GF
Rex
Salmonelle


actum
Shoe Stores Ctd.
189 Pitt St. • 22 Strand Arcade *s -135 Kin 6 St.
Leading Styles and Fashions.
The wonderful success of Macnaught foot-
wear is the outcome of rigid adherence to
our original policy—supplying excellent
shoes at reasonable prices. Macnaughts are
renowned as being the Leaders in New
Styles and Fashions.
U 509
*
m
m
A MACNAUGHT SHOE
MAY BE PURCHASED
FROM 22 /
a Pair
Lso9—Just landed, made in America by Geo. E. Keith
especially for Macnaughts, the latest court featured
in vamps of black lizard with gunmetal backs,
beautiful silver metal buckles, pump soles
and spike heels.
Sizes and half sizes
84/-
Newer Styles in Sporting Shoes
Macnaughts specialise in Ladies’ Sports Shoes.
We have a Special Department devoted solely
to the sale of these popular shoes. Our stocK
and variety are extensive. Couple this with
the specialised service available, and you have
the reason for our success.
Pay a Visit and See for Yourself
mm
V.
\FRACRANT, MILD, COOL 7a
The satisfying, mellow flavor of
Club Reil Cigars comes of care-
ful selection and curing of the
tender Havana leaf best suited to
Australian taste. Club Reil
Cigars are pleasantly mild. Their
high quality is absolutely depen-
dable. Order by post, as under,
if unobtainable locally.
Box of 10, 5/6; posted 6/-
„ 25, 12/-; „ 12/6
„ „ 50, 23/-; „ 23/0
„ „ 100, 45/-; „ 46/
FPL292
rV
M
m
' I.
D
fA
1
u
j&RAIG AND AITKEN \SYDNEY
Distributors for ''
CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY /
Was his new-found love to be as fleeting
as the snows? His father allowed appar-
ently for no passion, for no affaire in a
young man’s life. Surely the joy of life
included such exhilarations! He would
take tfle gifts of the gods, and of Marie,
as they came.
Gerald went down to the river on the
following morning, meaning to call on the
Carduccis, ostensibly to express his regret
for what had happened, but in reality to
confer with Marie as to the future. He
found Carducci had brought the Witch
back to the wharf for something, and then
had taken her down the river. Her desti-
nation was understood to be Wentworth.
Carducci, it w r as clear, was on his way to
Bourke. He probably intended to wait at
Wentworth until the Darling was navigable.
Gerald saw he could not do anything.
The Witch, he calculated, must be miles
down stream, for the boat had a pretty
pace, and with the current to assist her
she would make a quick passage. Later in
the day he heard that a sheriff’s officer had
arrived with a writ, and had intended to
seize the boat. When the officer was told
that Carducci was gone, he asked the police
to accompany him in a motor-boat in pur-
suit, and to board and seize the Witch in
the stream, if they could not hold her up
in any other way. Only one such boat
was available, and when they tried to start
the engine they found that some screw bolts
had been removed and the engine was out
of commission. The police grinned, and
said “Carducci!”
Gerald next called to see if by any
chance Marie had contrived to send him
a letter. Somewhat to his. surprise she had
done so. But the postmaster called him
aside and whispered to him that, for the
future, letters addressed to him would be
delivered at his home. The post office, the
official said, was not intended to be used
as a postal address by residents in the
town. Gerald saw, in the remark, how the
wind lay. His association with Marie was
evidently becoming a by-word. Even the
postmaster was showing his bristles.
Taking the letter he read:
My dearest, —I do not know what to
think after such a dreadful affair. It
seems to me as if our love was trampled
in the dust. Oh, what a scandal my
father has made; but, Gerald dearest,
you know that I cannot help what lie
does. I think he has gone crazy. He says
we are going up the Darling River to
Bourke. You know, and everybody knows,
the river bed is almost dry, and even the
Witch, with its shallow draught, cannot
get through. I wouldn’t bother to tell you
this, in such a letter, specially as my heart
is like to break, but that mother says she
thinks my father is being sent to Bourke
by your father. How can that be? Do let
me know what it all means. Your father
must loathe me, and think I am an adven-
turess, but you know different.
1 can see that our love-dreams are im-
possible. But Gerald, my love, all the world
cannot prevent me loving you even though
we may never meet again. You are never
out of my mind. I feel you hovering around,
a.nd I will try to rest on the boat content
in the glow of your love. I realise now that
we cannot manage love as we can other
things. I have surrendered to your love, and
I love you with all the strength that is in
me, and now it is so hard to let you go.
It seems impossible that you should love
me, yet I know you do. I have dreamed
many dreams of a lover, as in idleness I
have watched the water flowing by, mirror-
ing my face in its depths, but never, in all
my dreams, have I dreamt of such a won-
derful lover. Beloved, you are my world!
Our love — oh, to think it had such a horrid
affair as that with my father in it; I can-
not bear to dwell upon that. My heart is
broken!
Dearest, in this great trial, if our love
is to survive, we must help each other by
the thought that we have loved, and still
will love till such time as we are once more
in each other’s arms . Sometimes, when
parents try to break the affections of their
children, it is but a challenge to the inten-
sity of their love, and then true lovers
cling but tighter to each other. Try,
Gerald dearest, to get a note through to
me. Write to Wentworth post office, and
the letter will get there before we are down
the river. I’m sure of that, because the
owner of the Witch will peddle along as
usual.
If it is to be that we will not meet
again, and that seems probable, then we
must be brave. Do not think that I will
not suffer! I who love .you, who worship
you and dream of you day and night! Oh,
Gerald, if ever you should want me, come
to me, for I will wait for you for ever!
Your heart-broken Marie.
Gerald put the letter in his notebook.
His mind was almost as much a-whirl as
Marie’s had been. “She was a girl after my
own heart,” he sighed “But I couldn’t
have married her in face of the mesalliance
lecture. No, me lud! No! I’m not look-
ing for a disinheritance for any woman’s
sake.”
But later in the day he wrote the letter
Marie asked him to send, addressing it to
Wentworth post office:
Heart o’ Mine, —Do not despair. I will
yet claim you. Be sure of that, darling,
because 1 could not live without you. Some
day, if you have trust, I will come to you,
and be with you till death us do part.
Ever, my darling of darlings.
Your own Gerald.
(To he continued.)
Wisdom.
Wisdom will come at length, and I’ll not
care
Too much, too bitterly, for any friend,
Nor think the way of April’s at an end
When one wind strips a starlit orchard bare,
When the swift lights that tremble in your
hair
Weary of gleaming—when our voices blend
No more, as quietly as small winds meet,
Walking amid the dusk with holy feet.
I shall be wise; with smiling lips, forget;
Wait for the trivial end of joy or pain;
Wear a smooth armor, wipe away each
stain
With rags of tattered comfort. Ah, the wet
Grasses and lights, dreams quivering into
birth,
Wild stars —the nightborn song of sky and
earth !
MAOUILAND.
ROBIN HYDE.
The Consumptive.
The setting sun its pale light spills
Where velvet-green mimosa grows;
The flowering cane beneath the hills
Is etched in silver and in rose.
You walk beside me, old man Death,
Sternly, as one who has a claim.
On this soft wind I feel your breath
And hear the echoes of your name.
You watch beside me in my sleep,
And when I wake, with gestures slow,
Smooth for my head the leafy heap,
While the red fire-gleams wane and grow.
Shall we be good friends, you and I,
Before we finish this grim tramp—
As brothers that together lie,
And mates that on the same creek camp?
The mist-blue ranges call to me;
And still beyond I’ll take my pack ;
When other loves have ceased to be,
I’ll turn and meet you on the track.
And make you due acknowledgment,
And know my friend and take your hand,
Thank you for earth and jasmine scent,
And sunset dreaming on the land.
QUEENSLAND.
CHRISTOBEL FRANCIS.
Two Caves.
There are two caves that we remember well.
Not to be gained by any trodden beach,
Each haloed, with a wild enchantment; each
To wistful humans inaccessible.
Down where the cliff dives in deep sea,
Openly, innocently,
A small-domed hollow lies,
And beaded fucus dries
In rosy fan and frond j
Upon its smooth-washed floor.
On either side beyond
Are pale, steep walls without a shore,
But verdured here and there
By venturous clematis or hardy push
Of casuarina bush
In sighing, long green hair.
Once, peering from the top, we saw
With tenderness and awe
Toys in this cave sun-filled
More than the tide had spilled.
Small shells of curious shape and pearly
shade
Above liigh-watermark were laid
In certain patterns; and we knew
That from quiet halls of darkest peacock-
.blue
Some Nereid’s little dreamy daughter
Came there alone and played,
Where earth met deep-sea water.
Even how she turned her head
(Dear heart, even this we knew!)
In the first low beams of red,
Upward, where amethyst cliff-daisies grew,
Wondering, as children do,
At their clear starriness
Beneath a sombre casuarina tress;
And how her grey eyes did beseech
And dimpled straining hands aspire •
In the old grieved desire
For blossoms out of reach.
One day we clambered far upon the rocks
That take the edge of ocean, while the air
Trembled to loud, reiterated shocks
Of breakers on the point; we two clung there.
We dashed the spray drops from our daring
eyes;
Then hand caught chilly hand
In sheer surprise,
We seemed so far from friendly land,
Out where salt dews that never cease anoint
The rough winds ringing with the grey gulls’
cries.
As round the perilous point
A moment’s glimpse we had through noise
and spume
Of a gods’ council-room!
Back into eerie foam-lit gloom
Ran that high cavern’s narrow arch
Dike a cathedral nave, while breakers swift,
Green and white-peaked, in endless march
Entered the Gothic rift
And lined it with live water cold,
A pavement of tumultuous sheen
Of waves that groped and sprang and rolled
Till even its lofty coiling shook with green
Reflected lights not found in any' sky.
In that flashed revelation you and I
Foresaw next dawning—when the westering
moon
Full-globed and sinking soon
Should pierce the cave with level glitter-
in gs—
The gathering of sea-kings
Deathless and young eternally.
We knew that they would swim
With gleam of threshing limb,
Of coral crown.
Of golden beard long rippling down
To golden driftweed caught round ivory hips:
That with large eyes of calm disdain
And wise and awful lips,
In clangor of exultant sea,
They would assume their ancient majesty
And ruthless state again.
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE


12
11
io
ELGIN the very name inspires confi-
dence. Long years of experience in watch
manufacture, the skill of craftsmen
trained in the Elgin factories, all go to
make the keynote of Elgin fame
reliability.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
&lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
Jfiir Jrade Mark in the Watch Care
Raoid Relief
B JSSk.
Good-bye to Rheumatism-
w.
The factor deciding your health, strength
and span of life is your blood. If handi-
capped by Rheumatism, Backache, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Neuritis, etc., you have only to
drive the uric-acid poisons from the blood
this medically-recommended way to get well
again! Harrison’s Pills form the one
remedy for kidney, bladder and urinary
troubles any qualified medical man, knowing
the formula, would readily recommend. Har-
rison’s Pills do what is claimed for them—-
they remove the CAUSE of rheumatic aches,
joint and back pains, “lame spells,” mus-
cular stiffness, swellings and genito-urinary
disorders, and give such prompt relief as to
surprise the taker. Harrison’s Pills actually
make you feel younger, and they do not
embarrass by discoloring the urine.
Don’t Mistake the Symptoms!
The big danger to-day is uric acid. More lives
crash and come to a premature end through uric-
acid or allied disorders than is generally supposed
Many do not realise their trouble is uric acid and
that it may affect the heart. Uric acid is difficult
to dissolve by ordinary means, yet Harrison’s Pills
quickly, surely dissolve and banish it from the
system. People report relief from Harrison’s Pills
when all else has failed them. Middle-aged men
quickly regain activity; so-called “old-timers” soon
“come back” with a vigorous freshness surprising
to all who know them; women fast losing their
youthful charm and popularity find Harrison’s Pill
a blessing.
Satisfaction or Money Back!
There is ample evidence that Harrison’s. Pills an
most effective for banishing Back Pains; Stiff
Swollen Joints; Rheumatism; Sciatica; Neuritis:
Constipation; Lumbago; Kidney, Bladder am
Genito-Urinary Disorders and Inflammations. So tlv
following guarantee is confidently given to safeguard
those wishing to try this remedy: The price paid joi
the first bottle of Harrison’s Pills will be refunded
to anyone not completely satisfied! In this way yoi
may test for yourself the remarkable pain-eliminating
and rejuvenating powers of Harrison’s Pills without
risking a penny. And since any good chemist 01
store can supply you, in three handy sizes, at if-,
3/- and 5/-, why drift along the hateful road that
leads to miserable pain-racked old age ?
What a Hospital Nurse Says:—
St. Andrews Private Hospital,
Victoria Street, New Lambton.
To Amalgamated Laboratories, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—You might be interested to knoi<
that the success of Harrison’s Pills in treating Kidnei
and Bladder Troubles, Backache, etc., has been such
that 1 have recommended this remedy to scores o,
patients, and 1 can testify definitely to their unusual
efficacy and great value for use in these painful
troubles.
( Signed ) Sister B. Piper.
Harrison’s Pills
Remove both Cause and Symptoms
Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney; and all Chemists.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
Restful,
Beach
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
quiet and cool—open to the Summer Sea Breezes. Delightfully situated with Private
mid Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort Excellent Cuisine and Service.
Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Summer Tariff from 5 guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines'!. Management M. E. BURROWS.
If any illustration in “ THE
BULLETIN ” takes your fancy,
Write to the MANAGER., who will
quote you price for the original.
W 3
Who
could tell
that I once
suffered from
SUPERFLUOUS HAIR?
NOW IT IS GONE FOR EVER
Looking at me now with my clear, unblemished skin,
who would ever guess that once I veiled my face to
hide the hideous growths of ugly, disfiguring hair.
Yet that is so. For years my life was a misery.
As the young wife of an officer in India, I suffered
the agonies of shame. I had a distinct moustache,
llmost a beard. Nothing did me any good. Even
the expensive, painful electric needle brought nothing
but a few days’ relief. Always the ugly, disfiguring
growths came back again stronger than ever on
ny face and body.
Then, almost in a day, my clouds were lifted in a
most amazing way. My husband saved the life of
a humble Hindoo soldier. In his gratitude, the Sepoy
breathed to him the closely-guarded secret of the
Hindoo religion, which keeps the women of that race
free from any, sign of superfluous hair. I tried it
in desperation. From that day—now years ago—
f have never seen sign of superfluous hair. I
watched for it daily for months, never daring to
hopo that it was gone for ever. But it was! I
was cured completely. I was a normal woman again.
Sines then I have told many other sufferers of my
experience, and the secret recipe has never failed.
It has brought joy and permanent freedom in every
case. If you, too, suffer, let me help you. Let me
tell you how I suffered, and let me pass on to you
the secret that saved me. I shall gladly send it free
if you will send me coupon below, or a copy of it,
to-day, with your name and address, stating whether
Mrs. or Miss. All I ask is that you send me three
penny stamps to cover my outlay for postage, etc.
Address as below.
THIS FREE COUPON
or copy of same
to be sent with
your name and address and 3d. stamps. Mrs.
HUDSON: Please send me free your full in-
formation and instructions to banish superfluous
hair. Address: Frederica Hudson (BTd’g
M. 9), No. 9 Old Cavendish Street, London,
W.l England.
IMPORTANT NOTE.—Mrs. Hudson belongs to a
family high in Society, and is the ividow of a
prominent Army Officer, so you can write her with
every confidence. Address as above. c.t.p.y.B.
Learn to
DRAW!
IT GIVES PLEASURE
AND BRINGS PROFIT.
You can learn to make effective
original drawings in a short period
under the
J)
WESTON POSTAL COURSE OF DRAWING
Mr. HARRY J. WESTON, the well-known Commercial Artist, conducts this School
personally, and every Student receives personal tuition.
Big salaries await successful students in the field of Art! Why not learn all about
this profitable hobby ?
Take the first step to-day. Send your name and address for Mr. Weston’s booklet
entitled “THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN,” which tells all about the course, fees, etc.,
and gives examples of the lessons.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING
77 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT Of
1 NEW ZEALAND.
WELLINGTON DISTRICT.
(Napier Registry.)
D No. 217/1928.
BETWEEN FREDERICK SCHLITZKUI
Petitioner and ETHEL SCHLITZKUt
Respondent.
TO ETHEL SCHLITZKUS formerly o
New Zealand but last heard of ii
Hamilton in the State of Victoria Aus
tralia wife of Frederick Schlitzkus o
Hastings in the Provincial District C
Hawkes Bay in the Dominion of New
Zealand Storeman.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has beei
issued out of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand at Napier citing you to appear am;
answer the Petition of FREDERICK
SCHLITZKUS of Hastings in the Provin-
cial District of Hawkes Bay in the Domin-
ion of New Zealand Storeman wherein lu
prays for a dissolution of his marriage with
you on the ground of separation by mutual
consent since the First day of August 192:
such Citation intimating that in defauli
of your so doing the Court will proceed to
hear the said Petition and to pronounc*
sentence therein notwithstanding youi
absence NOW THEREFORE TAKE
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid you
are within fifty days after the date of publi-
cation of this advertisement to attend in
person or by your solicitor at the Supreme
Court Office at Napier and there enter an
appearance without which you will not be
allowed to address the Court at any stage of
the proceedings. A copy of the Citation and
Petition will be supplied to you on your
applying for the same at the Supreme Court
Office at Napier.
DATED this 26th day of February. 1929.
P. MARTIN,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to her the foregoing
advertisement.
John Humphries, of Napier, is the Solicitor
for the Petitioner, whose address for service
is at the office of Messieurs Elumpliries
and Humphries, Solicitors, Napier, New
Zealand.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Missing Friends.
IDE G. W. RICHES, Deceased.—Will any
person knowing the whereabouts of
Henry Riches, brother of George William
Riches, late of North Motton, in Tasmania,
who died in 1915, communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Hobart.
W7OULI) JIM PERRY, late of RedclifEs,
** or anyone knowing his whereabouts—
last heard of at Echuea —please communicate
with P. RAMSAY, Redcliffs Post Office.
RENOWN BRAND
ROPES & CORDAGE
Manufactured at Mascot by
J. SCOTT, LIMITED
Head Office and Stores:
163 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY
’Phone: 82861. Box 251 DD, G.P.O.
Sisal Fibre for Plaster Sheets.
SHE NEVER SAW
HIM AGAIN!
She met him at the Benson’s Party, and
liked hipi instantly. He was a rar
mixture of Romance and Reality—but !
left her so suddenly as to make her fr ,;
hopeless and ill. One evening with him
had given her a new idea of happiness; h?
was going to make another appointment
and then, suddenly, “Good-bye” ....
What had killed his interest? She never knew, but.
actually, it was —unpleasant breath! This trouble
causes much unhappiness, and the victim seld '
suspects the cause. Perfumed sweets and gar? s *
give only momentary peace—the real remedy is a"
internal one—Cream of Yeast. This helps Ik*
stomach and intestines, sweetens the breath, cleat
the tongue. It improves the general health ana
clears the skin. Ask your chemist or store for a l b
package of Cream of Yeast to-day. Be sure it’s re.
ordinary yeast—you need Cream of Yeast if 7 X
want quick, safe," reliable results.


THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 Georjre Street, Sydney.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan Esa •
h. h. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M G ’ ’
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - . BRISBANE.
hi™ L otfiC - 8 n Lon< ?° n ’ 1 Cal l be r T r a (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
Bank 1 nff t r he th a f I n S^ a f kl "vJ nS H tut,o u S CoVerin S Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
ƑG
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
F
Clothes for Men
and Their Sons
A Big Shady
Bush Hat<-v.
The “TRAIL”
A fine Pure Fur Felt Hat by “Wood-
row.” Designed for men who work
out 'neath the rays of a fiery sun.
Generous leaf of 4 inches, which
can be worn up or
down. In fawn only.
58/6
Pike Brothers
Limited
In Queen Street, Brisbane
HOW “BRACKEN” MIGHT HAVE ENDED
THE PRIZE PLOTS—AND SOME OTHERS.
Between them The Bulletin and the'
homan's Mibbob lately ran a competition,
ottering prizes for the completion of an
unfinished story, the object being to stimu-
late the inventive faculty of young Australian
writers. Competitors had to pick up
Bracken at the point at which Mr. Cronin
Ipf t it on January 23 and give a 300-word
synopsis of the concluding five or six instal-
ments as they would have written them.
As announced last week the prize winners
were; France Murphy, 1, £2O: Frederick
Olver, 2, £10; Mrs. V. Cantwell, 3, £5 • Mrs.
R S. Prosser, 4, £l.
Ihe Bulletin’s synopsis of the story up
to the point at which competitors had to pica
it up was as follows :
Brought up by his aunt, Ann Martin at
Musk Ridge, a Gippsland selection where,
while Ins uncle lived, he dragged out a slaving
existence among the cows, .Jasper Leith has
his eyes turned citywards through a friend
ship with Ronald Braid, a young artist. Lois
Beaurnent, the girl with whom he has always
shared a mutual fondness, is sent to Mel-
bourne for schooling, and Jasper has decided
ro go there also and make money wlmn,
taking a little too much drink at the Ilar-
rmes, be gets into a compromising situation,
and tolls lod Harris that he is going to
mairy Ins sister Cora, y blousy type of girl
whom lie had previously disliked. They
tnarry and go to Melbourne, where Jasper’s
early business and matrimonial life ate
failures. A child is born and dies; Cora
nags; and Tod, who has become a racecourse
hanger-on, hints that; a commercial traveller
named Roughton, with whom Cora, had been
very intimate just before marriage, is again
iar lying-on with her. Jasper, however
misses the insinuation. Meanwhile Braid has
proposed to Lois and been lightly rejected.
' hen, aftet several disappointments, specu-
lation brings Jasper a large sum of money.
He is becoming very worried about Cora, and
this reaches a climax when one night she is
still out al 12 o’clock.”’
The last paragraph published on January
23 read :
Jasper came from a haze of thought pre-
sently to rouse himself with a start. He
looked at Ihe clock on the mantel and sat up
abruptly, rubbing his eyes. He was not quite
certain that he had not slept. How else,
his mind demanded querulously and a little
alarmed, could tin- hour be so late ’ The
bands pointed after midnight, And Cora
was not yet returned. At; least’’, ~.
„,d Ihere 1 here were at least five instalments to be
filled after this point. Below we print the
plots submitted.
•*!? :jj .*5
First prize (France murpiiy).
It was not till next day that Jasper knew
definitely that Cora had gone with Rougliton
As suspicion grew to fact, he thought of lief
With a kind of pity. The irony of her going
that night, when lie had just made a big deal!
He fell sorry she had not known. The
childish greedy pleasure she would have
taken! Probably, poor fool, she would have
a thin time with Roughton.
He told Lois of his win that evening.
"I hope it will make you happy, Jasper,”
she said, but her eyes were sober and
doubting....
Where bracken and scrub crept over the
Musk Ridge clearing Jasper sat upon the
ooorstep of the deserted house. H e had
been too late to see Ann Martin, buried, but
her appeals to save the farm had brought
turn back. Back where he was 35 years ago.
lool! Money? What had it given him?
Ease/ Less than this bracken-cursed place.
Those last years in America had been
strenuous, punishing. Tinfoil; the fruits
tricked from his grasp!
But in the dazzle of it the real things he
had missed. Lois—once he might! And he
had married Cora! Cora who went and came
again and again, a leech, an inescapable
burden on his pity.
Over the ridge Amos and his wife still
lived so happily. Lois and Ronald were in
Europe now. lie winced. Did -,ve make
our own lives, or were they ordained by some
jeering god? His mind jerked. He could
make the place pay; lie had little capital, but
he had experience.
Pile ferns in the old cultivation seemed
to wave a challenge. He stood up. “You
damned bracken !” he muttered. “You are not
the only ones can come back!”
* * * *
SECOND PRIZE (FREDERICK
OLVER).
. So Jasper thought. But upstairs Cora lay
wide-eyed with fear—and, below, Ronald
Braid lay still in death.
Angered at the increasing intimacy be-
tween Lois and Jasper, Braid had called
at Jasper’s home. He proposed to speak
P™” facts to Jasper; but Jasper was absent.
Avhile talking to Cora in the passage
Lraid received a terrific blow across the
temple, and a few minutes later Roughton
disappeared among the shadows in the street.
It was after midnight when Jasper stag-
gered to ’phone the police. In a confused
way he remembered a crowd of people, and
knew he was being charged with murder;
but it was Cora’s assertion later that brought
tile awful verdict. She admitted that Jasper
appeared ill, but declared she saw him aim
tiie blow. His movements, especially at the
cafe, supported this.
Despite a recommendation to mercy, he was
sentenced to a long term of imprisonment.
Ihe verdict, so damning to Jasper, brought
a revelation also. The love of Lois Beau-
nient shone clear amidst it all. Though con-
sidering her love to be hopeless, she revealed
it to Jasper, and with confidence asserted
her faith m him.
Phis bond undoubtedly preserved Jasper’s
sanity.
A year passed, and Houghton proved true
to type; for Jasper learned from Mr. Ilume,
I tormerly parson and good friend of the
family at Musk Ridge], now a citv mis-
sionary, that Cora, deserted by Roughton,
had died in miserable poverty.
Then the murderer revealed himself in
Lod Harris.
Arriving at Jasper’s house on the fatal
evening, Tod found Cora, for the third time,
under questionable circumstances with a man,
.and mistaking Braid for Roughton struck
lnm down; but not until he had been fatally
injured in a racecourse brawl did Tod make
tlit> confession.
Jasper realises on his wedding day that all
things are not bought with gold.
THIRD PRIZE (MBS. V. CANTWELL).
Jasper finds Cbra asleep in her bed. It
had been her intention to persuade Roughton
to take her awdy, but: she learns by acci-
dent of the altered fortunes of her husband,
and consequently decides she will be better
nil if she stays. Henceforth she makes it
her business to ingratiate herself with
Jasper, although she sometimes cannot
resist sneering at him for his dull and slow
manners and nagging at his lack of ambition
Hi their early married life, Jasper, however,
continues to prosper, dealing in one success-
ill] venture after another, his conscience
never troubling him or reproaching him with
having first started the ball rolling with
false representations; but Lois, who has
always interested herself in him and his
doings, is sadly hurt to See the determined
way in which he is worshipping Mammon,
and Ins worldliness soon causes her to
cease thinking of him,
Ronald Braid at last, persuades Lois to
marry him; she is much touched by bis
fidelity, and. although she does not actually
love him as she would wish to love her
husband, they settle happily together, their
combined artistic temperaments creating a
delightful atmosphere for the entertainment
ot their numerous Bohemian friends.
Aunt Ann Martin continues to live at
Musk Ridge, the bracken eventually once
more over-running the place; but there she
preferred to end her days, tired of the
eternal struggle to cope with nature in some
of its blackest moods. Even her final rest-
ing place was completely hidden in a short
time by the prolific fern.
Cora is quite happy with her suburban
house, her maids and vulgar ostentation,
and is comparatively friendly and almost
affectionate at times to her husband.
She measured love by what it would buy!
FOURTH PRIZE (Mrs. It. S. PROSSER).
Still, she might have come in before
Jasper himself got home. Looking into
her bedroom, lie saw that this was not the
case. Her toilet-tilings were not on the
table, and two suitcases and most of her
clothes had disappeared.
n,Ol ‘ ,1, " ,, R lie asked Tod for the address
ot Alice I’ardy, the cousin whom Cora
sometimes visited. Tod told him that Alice
1 ardy had left town months ago; that it:
was with Roughton Cora had been going
about ; that Cora had only married him
(Jasper) to escape the situation in which
Roughton had left her; and that they had
probably gone away together.
Cora confirmed Tod’s forecast in a letter
which killed Jasper feeling of pity. Only dis-
gust and a desire to be free from her remained.
He devoted himself more strenuously to
speculation in property and shares and was
soon a busy company promoter. After
obtaining a divorce lie proposed to Lois,
who admitted she cared for him, hut refused
nin because of what she had hoard of his
business methods. She believed, however
in Jasper’s real integrity.
His aunt’s death recalled him to Guruwa
and made him owner of Musk Rid#b. Shortly
alter returning to town he learned that
Lois through her solicitor, had lost prac-
tically aH her capital in some companies
which Jasper himself had promoted, though
standing in the background, and, compelled
to sacrifice her musical career, she was work-
ing as a domestic.
Horrified, Jasper at last saw his money-
making schemes in their true light. His
own soul he realised, was as much choked
with bracken as were his pasture-lands.
Together he and Lois went back to Musk
Itidge, determined to light the bracken in
the country, and so escape that of the city.
In addition to the prize-winning entries
there were at least 50 on which very readable
stories of the required length could be built.
In many other entries one very important
fact was lost sight of—that at least five
further instalments had to be covered. Some
of the most telling conclusions were con-
clusions and nothing more. This one by Mrs.
Madeline Buck was conspicuous among this
class:—
A TOO-SWIFT ENDING.
By Madeline Buck.
He went and looked in the bedroom. She
was already there.
Next morning Cora announced that she
was going out.
“All right,” Jasper agreed indifferently.
As she left she kissed him, rather shyly.
"Good-bye, Jasper,” she said.
To his surprise, his heart beat as it used
when they were first married. He thought
how handsome she looked.
“Poor old Cora!” he murmured. “She does
love pretty clothes!” He forgot that Lois,
too, loved pretty things, and had always had
the money to gratify her tastes, while Cora
had had none.
Cora went to Lois’s flat.
Lois kissed her. “H'ullo, Cora! Glad to
sec you! Shopping?”
“No,” said Cora bluntly. "I have come to
see you. Lois,” she continued in nervous
haste, “you are stealing my husband from
me!”
The color rushed to Lois's face.
“Jasper?” she said confusedly. “What do
you mean, Cora?”
“What 1 say,” returned Cora. "You may
not know it, but if you don’t want to come
between us, it must stop. Mr. Houghton
asked me last night to go away with him,
and if you are going to take Jasper from me,
I shall go.”
“Cora, believe me, Jasper is nothing to
me—nothing. If you do this, you will ruin
the lives of all of us. Jasper loves you. I
promise I shall never have him here again
without you. L>o trust mo, Cora!”
“Jasper has always been fond of you, and
—and” Cora broke, down sobbing—“l
can’t, bear it !”
Lois’s eyes filled, while her heart was lead.
Presently Cora left. To Lois bad come
revelation. Cora's husband, and she, Lois,
loved him !
Soon her chin went up proudly. She
reached down her suitcases and packed
rapidly.
"The best way out,” she said.
From Guruwa she wrote to Cora a month
later. The postscript was short:
“Ronald and I are engaged. We shall be
married in September.”
>:* sis * *
THREE THAT WOULD MAKE
STORIES.
(I) Marjorie Quinn.
Cora’s late return, her refusal to answer
his questions, arouse Jasper's suspicions. He
recalls hints dropped by Tod. He questions
Tod, who blurts out part of the truth.
Shamed and furious, he confronts Cora. She
does not trouble to deny his charges; she
has grown strangely quiet and listless lately.
He threatens her with divorce ; she counters
by threatening to drag Lois into the courts.
Jasper has been much with her of late,
alone with her! Some of the mud, Cora
argues, will stick! Jasper abandons hope
of a divorce. Roughton, it appears, lias left
Cora finally, and she, with her customary
cupidity, will not free Jasper now that he is
“making good.” His luck in money-making
holds and he, is generous with Cora, hoping
to soften her. Another blow falls. Cora is
to have a child—Roughton’s! lie agrees to
see her through. Then his lack changes ; in-
vestments fail. Lois, meeting him, worries
over his appearance. She guesses some of
the truth. The day Cora’s baby is expected
Jasper hurries to an important appointment
He receives a message from hospital. Cora,
very ill, needs him. If lie goes he will miss
a big deal. lie goes. Cora, strangely beau-
tiful at the last, asks him to look after the
child. She is dying; lie can’t refuse. A
wonderful smile illumines her face; she is
now, he realises, the Cora he had loved and
idealised. She dies blessing him— and Lois,
lie is left with the child and the remnant of
his fortune. He goes back to the farm to
trample and destroy the bracken, to bring
up tlie kid” to have his chance. He is
glad he promised Cora. And Lois under-
stands. He is her Jasper at last She will
soon come to the farm to look after “her
two babies!”
(II) Mark Hauling.
.1 l • *:) i lc has not heard her enter.
He finds her broken, crumpled and dying.
Roughton, tiring of his amours, has thrown
her violently from him. Jasper, attempting to
lift her, extinguishes the last spark of life.
Suspected of having caused her death his
chaotic state of mind and detached attitude
at the coroner’s inquiry results iii a gruel-
ling oideal j but r J?od, urged by Ronald, wlio
I.S spurred on by Lois, clears the air. Slurs
are, however, cast on Lois.
Despite the sting Lois strives to keep
Jasper normal, but the old urge of work is
dominant, success follows success. The iron
is in. his soul. The insidious slander and
the paiu Lois suffered make him exceedingly
bitter. He drives hard bargains and goes
crashing through or crushing out whatso-
ever bars his way.
Dpis sees all thjs with sadness. Ronald,
settled to work, has a successful exhibition,
plucks up courage to propose again—without
result. Jasper, sensing the affair, is stirred
and wakens to his pressing need of her; and
although Lois shows in her shining eyes the
urge of her soul, she sends him away be-
cause of the angle from which he sees life.
An epidemic breaks out in the crowded
city. Hume [the splendid bush parson of
the old days in the bracken and always a
favorite of Jasper's], deeply engaged, calls
for aid. Jasper spends himself and his
wealth, and the farm in the bracken is for
gotten. Ann Martin comes to the city to
remonstrate, but is pressed into service.
Albert sends material assistance, another
artist circle becomes a band of ardent helpers.
Jasper strives to keep Lois out, but she
proudly works beside him, and dually gives
herself to him with all the fervor, yet the
gentleness the pride and the humility of the
soul that goes in absolute surrender to its mate.
(III) E. j. Stirling.
Days passed, but no Cora appeared. All
efforts to trace her proved fruitless. Jasper
was restless; his money brought him no
happiness. Mr. Hume advised him to go to
Musk Ridge. Jasper seemed to hear his
uncle’s voice: ‘‘l’ve told you, Hume, my
house isn’t a pulpit. I’ll do what I damned
well please.”
His uncle’s end and his folly at having
himself spurned his advice gradually worked
on Jasper. Lois saw him away to the coun-
try, saying, ‘‘l feel sure all will come right.”
At home things were as usual. In the
factory, the processes of milk churning re-
mained as before. “Dull monotony,” thought
Jasper.
’[’lie incident he remembered at the school
between Albert and Miss Sprott gave him
a ray of hope.
Then he met Rosanna. “It was Tod’s do-
itig, Cora going away,” she said. “It wa*
his revenge for your beating him in defence
of Lois. She went with Bill Roughton.”
Jasper met Tod in the bracken, and half-
killed him.
Albert pulled Jasper from the despair
that came when his fury was spent.
He.returned to the city; then Albert sum-
moned him back. Cora was dying at her
old home. She confessed all to Jasper.
Roughton had gone to America.
The war period saw Jasper and Ronald at
Gallipoli and France. Ronald fell at the
Somme.
In January, DO!), Jasper was in London.
A band played “Liszt’s Lieberstraum.”
That was enough. He cabled Lois.
Three months later lie found her at Grass-
lands. War had broken up her flat life,
though friendships remained.
Aunt Ann was dead.
The marriage of Lois and Jasper took
place latex*. Musk Ridge was their home.
Lois and the beauty of the Gippsland bush
finished the miracle of Jasper’s life.
(IV) Hazel Gunn.
Suddenly there leapt to Jasper’s mind a
vision of what that non-return would mean.
Shame, certainly. The slimy finger of public
scandal dragged across his name. Then
freedom. A new life. And Lois! At that
thought his stumbling, inarticulate soul stood
upright, shouted aloud. Lois! Why. he
loved her, had always loved her, it seemed,
though blindly, without understanding. Now
bis eyes were open, and mercifully, in the
very hour of his awakening, life had struck
off the shackles which would for ever have
barred bis approach to the girl he loved.
Then he turned and saw Cora standing in
the doorway; Even as he looked she
stumbled, would have fallen but for lxis
outstretched arm. As he laid her on the
couch he saw her lips move, heard her
feeble reiteration of a name. Bill —Bill
Roughton. And Jasper understood. Cora
had indeed left him, only to have Roughton
fail her a second time.
The knowledge let hell loose in Jasper’s soul.
The first r fingei*s of sunlight next morning
found Jasper far from home. He was
weary, dusty, unshaven, a tramp whose soul
had travelled to Calvary and back.
It was with infinite gentleness that later
he aroused Cora, told her of his plan to
return to Musk Ridge and again do battle
against the curse of the encroaching bx*acken.
To Cora, in that instant, a new birth was
vouchsafed. Suffering gave her wisdom to
realise the magnitude of his purpose. Her
hand crept out tentatively to his.
“Yes, Jasper,” she agreed, whispering,
“we’ll go back and fight the bracken —in the
fields and in ourselves.”
It was months later that Lois Beaument
learnt how Jasper had stripped the tinfoil
from his spirit and realised true manhood.
Somehow the gods gave her courage to be
glad.


Banking, Public Companies, etc,
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3.369.965
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18,623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. H. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER: C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: VV. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BLANCH : G 2 Bishopsgatc, E.C/J
The BANK is represented by 186 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stack .. .. •• £629,988
Preference Shaves .. .. •• 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 616,210
Ordinary Shares* .. .. •• 3,760,000
Reserve Fund upd Undivided Profits 3,732,525
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji, ’ Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament 1865,
and Registered under the Companies Act 1892,
of South Australia.)
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 306 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 970,000
£2,220,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,470,000
Also 115 Branches and Agencies in South Australia,
London Offick: 11 LEADEN HALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States ami throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Bkitisii Austbalian
and New Zealandek, Od. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the Bkitisii Austbalian
and New Zealandek Keading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C V 2, where they can see the horn.'
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 850 Ceorge Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
ƑG
SCHUTE,
6ELL&C?td
if you have
Wool & Skins
to SeJI.
Personal Attention.
Offices. 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N Z GUN CLUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISLAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAL ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Leading
Advertising Agencies.
Shippin". ere.
F
ENJOY WINTER IN PACIFIC ISLES
RAPIDLY growing in popularity, the Winter Excur-
sions from Sydney to Rarotonga and Papeete
(Tahiti) may yet rival the old-established holiday trips
to Honolulu. The swift trans-Pacific steamers of the
Union Royal Mail Line afford a superb ocean holiday,
as well as a glimpse of New Zealand s Capital.
Forward booking is advisable to ensure picked accom-
modation on this island excursion.
Raratonga and Tahiti
via Wellington
£55 First and £4O Second (return)
Tahiti leaves Sydney May 10
Maunganui „ „ June 13
Tahiti „ „ July 11
Honolulu via Auckland
and Suva
£75 First and £55 Second (return)
Niagara leaves Sydney May 30
Makurn „ „ June 27
Aorangi ~ „ July 25
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY, 247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne, Cl.
m
m
Attractive Trips of from 2 to 7 Weeks.
Magnificent Scenery, Luxuriant Tropical Vegetation
and Quaint Surroundings.
Make a selection and book early for a most interesting
Holiday.
SOUTH SEA ISLAND CRUISES
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island, Norfolk Island and New Hebrides
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
(“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly Sailings from Melbourne and Sydney
by the “MARELLA” (7500 tons) and
“MALABAR” (5000 tons).
Ƒ
BURNS, PH I LP &> COMPANY LIP.
SYDNEY AND BRANCH OFFICES
iSANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1811.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .
RESERVE LIABILITY
*2Sfc
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,000
Directors:
Thomas Buekland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq. ; W. E. H. Sout.herden, Esq. General Manager: Alfred Charles Davidson.
Ilcail Office —George Street. Sydney London Office—29 TlireadDeedle Street. E.C. 2
536 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,075,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,553,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN ( Chairman ) Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES,
M.L.C.; Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: <7. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout ' Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
... . v. . the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
--' Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outporta).
FOR BRISBANE. MAOKAY, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outporta).
TAKE YOUR HOLIDAYS NOW
in
HAWAII!
HAWAII!
HAWAII!
Come to the paradise of the Pacific and enjoy
a holiday such as you’ve never had before bask
in the warm health-giving climate of Hawaii ,
build up both body and mind in the romantic
surroundings of this Island Utopia.
Surf, Golf, Summer Sports galore await you,
plus the contagious cheerfulness of this happiest-
of-all peoples—the Hawaiians. Inter-Island
cruises. Visit Kilauea Volcano.
The steamer fare for such a holiday w'ill cost
an low as £55 second-class or £75 first-class.
Good American Hotels with all meals, 12/- to
£3 daily. Fullest particulars from steamship
and travel agents, or write for booklet.
HAWAII TOURIST BUREAU,
Dept. 26, Box' 162788, G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Take your Holidays now—Go to
HAWAII - HAWAII - HAWAII
BRISBANE,via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening ; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughput, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALEIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart Parked
i n » Magnlfloenl
, 111 C Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Ilob;"
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars appIyHUDDART PARKER LIMITsS,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Brlcig'e Street, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
HAS ACCEPTED
®[tc Register
NEWS PICTORIAL
with the utmost enthusiasm.
ALL THE NEWS!
ALL THE PICTURES!
The State’s First Morning
Pictorial.
Largely increased Sales
already assured.
Arrange Contracts at
present rates.
HEAD OFFICE: REGISTER NEWS-
PAPERS, LIMITED, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative: Eric N. Birks,
Sydney. Tel. X 5187.
Melbourne Representative: G. N.
Bednall, “Argus” Building, Mel-
bourne. Tel. F 4502.


&
&
3
a
Sr
n
R
3
t 1 ]
8
3
a
9
3®
m
Miss QUEEN IE ASHTON,
a beautiful Rexona Girl,
writes: “I am u Rexona
Girl, and use only Rexona
Soap, which I consider the
one and only soap for the
skin and hair.”
G
Girls/ why OatEojoy
f) Good (oropleyior)?
You cannot if you do not care for the delicate skin of the face. When you wash vour face
RontM»V e h» S H that 1S not e , nough t 0 si,n P l y remove the dirt, but tha/ vour skin needs a
soothing, healing influence to keep your complexion fresh and free from blemish? Scented
ManV Tfh are 0f f ten 7 ry P, 1 , ea 1 s ? nt - but do not assert this influence, as you are well aware
texture Even W *} ich tend f to d, 7 «P the skin and destroy its delTcate
Rexona’ Skin a nd Facial w® ■ 0 T f oaps n , ot a "- v wa Y help to improve the skin, but
itexona Skin and racial Soap is not only an absolutely pure soap, but is medicated on the
Rapid P Heaier 6S 38 th<? famous Rexona Ointment, which is known throughout Australasia as the
That is why Rexona Soap really does for the
skin and face what cosmetics are supposed to do
hy ensuring not only a clean face but a pure and
healthy skin, and thus gives you a clear
complexion.
'Rexona.
Soap
for Jtfealth
J and
J^exmtij
m
'in. i/i/i
m
'iLHt.
\t^=
O'-
M
1/
i
,%JL * XJ-V\
fcQ
j
1/
—^—a
*/£»
> i- K
3?
#&?#S3
$
KgsC
feWg.i
□l
r
11 ii
Distinctive Decoration in the Home
There s no need to have drab, dull walls now. The evolution in Wall-
papers during recent years makes it possible for the interiors of every
class of home to be cheerful, pleasing and inviting.
Artistic Wallpapers
are now a reality—and our Showrooms, both at Melbourne and Sydney,
contain wide ranges of designs more pleasing than ever. Every one
an Artistic Masterpiece—and all new and distinctive.
Rough Plasters, Rough Casts, Opalchromes, Polychromes with
Matched Borders, Backgrounds and Figured Effects.
Berger’s B.P. Paint
The Ideal Paint for all-round use on Inside or Outside Work—Easy
Working—Uniform in Color—Economical.
BERGER'S MATONE FLAT OIL PAINT
for Interior Walls and Ceilings. In pleasing Pastel Shades as well as
neutral and warmer tones. Matone may be washed with Soap and
Water, and combines to the greatest degree Beauty and Utility. Send
for Color Card and Prices,
White Lead, Zinc Oxide, Oils, Turps, Driers, Dry Colors,
Brushes and ail Painters' Requisites.
<£7
fimiiiiiiiiiimii
I JOHN
niuiuumuiiiiiiir
prr-
triitiimihiiiia
&SON i
391=403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Mind of Ah Foo.
BY HAROLD MERCER.
NOROD'i in tlio court realised what was
in the mind of Ah Foo as the Judge
pronounced sentence of death. The
Killing of one Chinaman by another, even if
it were cold-blooded and brutal, was of small
public interest; the wooden face of the con-
demned man seemed the natural thing to
■xpect from a Chinaman. They went away
talking about ‘‘the fatalism of the Fast,” and
rlicu forgot fill about the case; even the
Judge made his remarks brief, feeling the
impossibility of being impressive whilst the
dull face in the dock was without a gleam
ot intelligent understanding.
Rut iu Ah Foo s mind the whole scene was
a blur; the brain was stunned by the con-
tusion of his thought. There was nothing
there of the imperturbability that those who
watched him imagined ; he wanted to scream
aloud that lie was innocent; but the habit of
impassivity kept him silent.
-Vtier he had been led away lie still wanted
to scream his protests. There was within
[uni no surprise that he, an innocent man,
had been found guilty and was going Jto hang
tor a crime about which he knew nothing.
1 lie evidence was against; him strong enough •
Lo hang dead in the hut; Ah Foo’s knife
blood-stained near him; and the money he
bad banked about the time Fang’s body
was found supplied a motive. What evidence
Ah hbo s lawyer could rake together of his
client s movements in the city did not lessen
the probability of the crime having been com-
nutted by him. His story that lie had left
lus hut-companion alive and sleeping was
absurd.
In his mind there was nothing amazing in
such miscarriage of justice; his childhood in
China had trained him to it. lie did not
even object to death, as far as death itself
was concerned; it was the form of it that
gave bitterness to his thoughts. There was
an abominable cruelty about these white
people. They would take him to the gallows,
put: a rope round his neck and with the
drawing of the bolt hurl him into eternity.
Only three or four people, officials, wouid
stand by to see him off.
That was the refinement of cruelty which
caused frantic protest to bubble in his heart.
Ihe more lie pondered over it the more he
cried against the horror. In China he would
have been taken out before the crowd. The
eyes of the multitude would have fortified
uni. lhere might have been the glory of pre-
liminary tortures to endure, so that he could
show to the onlookers his indifference; and
they would have gone away saying, “Ah
I-oo died well.” Executions might be conimon-
places to them, but they would say that he
died better than others. If there has been
nothing else in a man’s life, he could at least
die well.
There was a brutality about the white
people that would deny him this privilege—
he who had had nothing else in his life. In
China his young life had been one of starva-
tion and kicks; in Australia, to which he
had been smuggled, it had been a long slavery
to buy his freedom from the men who had
contrived his arrival. Ilis one hope had been
lo return to China with some hard-saved
money and to walk about in the town where
he had been born, displaying his affluence.
-Now that dream was over. He was to die
unjustly for a murder which mattered
nothing to anyone, except perhaps the Chinese
who had lost the further tribute they had
expected from th e dead man and himself, and
had sent good money after bad in his defence.
A visitor—a white man—put an idea into
his numbed mind. Danton’s face was white;
he was nervous. Ah Foo saw in his arrival
a desire to placate him, to keep his mouth
closed Mentally he smiled, pleased that
something of a grin could flash into his
shadowed mind. What good would it be to
him to talk now?
Danton went quickly, haying said very
little beyond a whispered “You’ve been
decent with me, All Foo.” He had provided
a little money so that the prisoner could
seemre anything lie wanted.
But lie left an idea behind. Ah Foo turned
old pictures in his mind. He recalled the
tailing dusk when a woman’s scream had
come to him whilst he still worked amongst
the vegetables. Curiosity had led him to
where the grounds of the old deserted cottage
abutted on the vegetable garden. There were
more screams, and a woman came out of the
cottage struggling to escape the clutch of a
man. who seized her more closely
Events happened quickly then.' Out of
the gathering darkness a man raced, and with
sharp, angry words flung himself upon the
other, punching him, tearing the woman from
bis grasp. In a moment were fighting,
rolling desperately over and over on the
giound, whilst the woman stood by, moaning
and wringing her hands. Ah Foo' had gazed
in petrified interest.
Suddenly the men were apart, rising to
their feet. The one who had got there first
seized a batten from the fence and rushed •
but he went down like a log. The other
had also seized a batten and had used it
with greater speed.
Ah Foo still stared whilst the two bent
over the prostrate fellow.
“He’s dead! My God, he’s dead!” said
(be man.
. Foo did not catch what was said
in the agitated words that passed between
the man and woman ; but he knew the man
had protested that he must give himself up
to the police, while the woman had pleaded
against his decision. Apparently she had
persuaded him at last.
‘‘We’ll go through the Chinese garden
then, he had said. “We might be seen on
the road.”
They had come upon Ah Foo before he
C ?i ve away - He was frightened, especi-
ally when the man strode towards him. the
Wo .[S? n topping behind with a quivering cry.
“Yon saw?” demanded the man, “Lookee
here. This lady she marry me soon—see?
Him very bad man ; we come just in time to
save her. No mean killee. Savee?”
Ah Foo did not savee, but, still fright-
»ne<h tried to mumble something reassuring.
“You tellem p'lieeman. eh?”
, “No tellee p’lioe. No likee,” said Ah Foo
decisively.
He meant that, too. His masters had
worked upon his fears of the law in their
own interests, and in his terror of re-trans-
poi-tation the very thought of a policeman
him with horror. Not for a score of
dead men would he have willingly spoken
t‘> a representative of the law.
Later that night he had gone out and
removed possible evidence that they had for-
gotten, raking over the soil where their
feet had left imprints in the garden. When
the discovery 0 f the dead man had been
made and the police had called at the hut.
All Foo had answered "No savee" to all
they said, with a deadly fear all the time
that they might guess he had no right to
be in Australia.
• E . ven , the Chinese who jabbered about
it, he had avoided the subject of what the
papers called “The Harry Park Mystery.”
the otter of a reward meant nothing to him.
He did not believe the police would pay
the money; they would only find out he was
a prohibited immigrant, send him away and
rob him. Raw to white law, lie felt, too,
thot, lie might himself be charged with mur-
der it he admitted any knowledge of it.
Much time after, when he was less raw
and, as one who had learned safe English’
was on the vegetable run, he came upon
the man and woman again. They lived to-
gether in a neat house in a poor suburb.
1, e surprise caused Ah Hoo to hesitate; and
the man saw the hesitation and looked
startled and angry.
“Me no tolloe p’liceman,” said Ah Foo
placatingly.
Ah Foo went away a ton-shilling note the
richer -and with a regular customer, from
\\liom similar favors might be expected from
time to time. It was nil very satisfactory
from Ah boo’s point of view.
He began to like these people, to feel
sorry for the look of strain on their faces
lo reassure them lie tried to show his friend
hncss.
“No lil’ babee, eli? No HP boy, liP gel?”
ho asked Danton one Saturday as he put
down his baskets.
Danton turned sharply from the bench
where he was working.
“Good God, no!” he said. Ah Foo had
understood vaguely that the shadow over
them was spoiling their happiness, keeping
them childless, and was more sorry.
All the night after Danton had visited
him in the gaol Ah Foo turned things over
in his mind, dreamed about them. He would
not die the unnoticed murderer of another
mere Chinaman. People would talk about
him before lie died.
In the morning he poured his story upon
!r “Me wantee tell. You savee
Ilallee Plark? Me killee white man there.”
u ith a splather of excited pidgin-English he
detailed circumstances which riveted the
c j l . rt \ e u P on him. The warder brought the
chief warder; and then the governor came;
and the next day he heard the prisoner who
was on duty as cleaner in the hall talking
to the warder about it with a freedom regu-
lations utterly forbade.
So this Chow in here killed a white
man, too?
t - Confessed to it ’” said tlle warder affably.
Its in all the papers to-day. The chap
was found dead at Harry Park, right along-
side the Chow gardens where this Pong
worked ; but they never suspected the Chows.
Ihe dead bloke insulted this Chow and he
up and hit him with a lump of wood, kill-
ing him Get on with your work, and when
you ve done go over them handles again We
want ’em shiny.”
Ah Foo knew that the sudden change to
the voice of authority meant that a senior
hud entered the hull, and he was sorry Ho
would have heard more gladly. Elation was
in Ins mind, lifting him above his heart’s
clamor against the early finish of a life
completely thwarted. He even forgot the
cold brutality of the white man’s habit of
quietly hanging a man, compared with tin-
spectacular glory of public torture in China.
hiomehow, too, a still better idea came, to
his mind. The little money Danton had
given him to rose-line his dreams of China
had awakened more affection in the soul of
Ah I oo than he had felt towards any other
human being; moreover, he approved of Dan-
ton acrimo. The idea that pleased him was
Danton and his wife with the strain
fitted from their faces when he was gone
and the fear of discovery was over; and the
vision had included ‘children about their
knees the children lie felt they wanted, but
dared not have whilst the fear of the old
crime haunted them.
But that night, when he woke up in the
darkness, he called himself a fool. Were
there not other murders he couid have
claimed, making himself a murderer among
murderers—one about whom the people
would talk for long.
turned the thought gloatingly in his
mind. His death would be a glorious one;
not tor the mere murder of another of his
race but for killing many. There was the
white girl Olhe, found done to death in an
empty house in Surry Hills—another un-
solved mystery. She had been the wife of
,?, p Young, a Chinaman of some respect-
ability. which she had sullied by leaving
him to live with another Chinaman Sus
picion had pointed naturally to Hop’ Young
as her destroyer ; but he had apparently left
Sydney months before the murder. Yet
Chinatown knew more than the police, and
its whispers had said that Hop Young was
actually the murderer.
Well, Hop Young was in China now and
would not dispute the honor wfith him. He
a i out circumstances of the
shoulders W , he Cnme easily upon his °wu
siiouideis. Here was a story he could create
which would excite the Chinese, tdo they
Sin hac V I despi ? ed him us a mere helot, one
who could not have women, would wo'nder to
hear how he had enjoyed the embraS of a
anThad W lilled°w ( f on \ ric l‘ a P 10I1 s s « them.
sra,. ms 1 ' 1
Strike a hght!” said the warder when
“wi g a :U - Jliklm K of the new disclosure
\Vhy don t .you let us know all the murders
you ve committed while you’re about it.’”
But the,re was circumstantial corrobora-
tion in the known details of the Surry Hills
murder to support Ah Foo’s newer' storv
and again his confession was taken ' ’
Not that it matters much a s far as it
(Continued on page 58.)


tIRED OUT WITH PA/ty
HEADACHE, DIZZINESS, SLEEPLESS,
NO APPETITE—TARE WARNING!
Kidney Trouble is Crippling You-
This is Your Road Back to Health
Ƒ
Tired-out with constant Pain! Back-breaking, limbs
like pieces of lead, headache—women by the thousands
know the tragic daily torture only too well. The cause
in most cases can be told in two words—Kidney
Trouble. The remedy can be told in six—De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills.
It does not matter how long you have suffered or what remedies have failed
to give you relief. We ask you to make a test of the 40-year-old, world-
famous remedy—De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills. Take two at night.
then one before meals. In twenty-four hours
you will see they are doing you good.
This we guarantee. Persevere and
your trouble will entirely
disappear.
<T>
<r
o
xs
</-
ft
*•>
<>>
Ti
pic
&
*T}>
»?•
'CKi!
ssSatfiu
£>S*'
If you dread getting
up in the morning to
face the day’s work
crippled with pain, if
you are troubled with
terrible backache, the
very effort to move
from bed agonising,
and then to drag
through household
duties a veritable torture, making you at night-time a nervous wreck, read
this letter, just one of- thousands where pain and suffering has been ended
by the safe, simple remedy "De Witt’s,” which any chemist in your district
can supply you with
A WOMAN WROTE THIS TO HELP OTHER SUFFERERS
Mrs. E. L. Hammond, Kempling Street, West Devonport, Tasmania,
says
“For three years I suffered very badly from Kidney Trouble. I was
in constant pain, and tried all sorts of remedies, which did me no good at all.
My sister, who had benefited from De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
persuaded me to give them a trial. 1 am indeed grateful for the health
‘De Witt’s’ have brought me, after taking only two bottles. I have told
a great number how good this remedy is. I am now in perfect health.”
A Remedy that ends pain Quickly and Surely
There is no secret about the wonderful prescription from which De Witt s
Kidney and Bladder Pills are made. Your chemist can tell you why every
ingredient has been chosen to bring you health. Do not let chronic
Backache, Rheumatic or other pains rob you of happiness. Get your 3/6
or 6/6 supply of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills at once, and start on
the road to health and strength immediately. They carry a definite
assurance to prove results in 24 hours.
're
n
J
n
r* d.
KIDNEY
& BLADDER
PILLS
THE REMEDY THAT SHOWS RESULTS IN 24 HOURS.
concerns him,” said the ehie'f warder. “It
closes the book on another unsolved mystery,
that’s all.”
But it concerned Ah Foo in two ways;
one of them he only learnt that afternoon.
“You’ve been a mug, Ah Foo,” said the
warder. “If you hadn’t opened your mouth
about those other murders you’d be a free
man before to-morrow. Two gunmen were
caught in a robbery and made a dash for it
in a motor-car. A police bullet caught the
driver and the car crashed into a wall. Both
men are dead in hospital, and each of them
before dying confessed to the murder of
your friend Lo Fang.”
Reaction swung through the soul of Ah
Foo. Once i lore his heart protested against
Mm sudden ending of his thwarted life,
v liich lie knew must come on his confession
of other crimes.
“Me lie! Me no killee the white man,
and the gel," In* pleaded desperately.
“No use you crying off it now.” said the
warder. “Your circumstances were tod right;
you’ve made it easy enough for the police to
hang you live times over. 1 reckon they’ll
fasten on the girl case; they’ll get you easiest
mi that.”
* - * * *
Danton tore himself away from his wife.
“Fve got to go, Nell,” lie said. “1 can’t
stand the suspense. I'll go and see Ah Foo.
It’s best to face what’s coming. Now these
men have confessed, he’ll cry off that con-
fession.”
The news of the dual confession which
freed Ah Foo from the stigma of the murder
of 1.0 Fang had come right upon the report
of how lie had confessed to the crime which
hung its shadow over Danton’s life—a thou-
sand times Danton had cursed himself for
his failure to face the issue in the first
place with bis plea of justification. No other
news had yet reached the press; and with
fearful foreboding Danton made his way to
the prison.
•‘Me no tellee p’liee,” Ah Foo managed to
whisper to him. Ilis face expanded slightly
in a satisfied grin. “They get tee me for
another murder: I killee white gel
011ie”....
“Funny people, these Chinamen,” said Dan-
ton to the warder, who let him out. “That
Ah Foo served us with vegetables, and I
felt sorry for him. Struck me as a decent
Chow ; but he seems quite pleased with him-
self. Doesn’t seem to mind hanging -the
fatalism of the East. I suppose.”
He strode < ut with head up and swinging
tread, more jaunty than he had been for
years.
The Blacksmith’s Wife.
MYRA MORRIS TELLS THIS VIVID STORY.
THE house, was behind the smithy—a low
weatherboard house with ugly knots in
the wood. There was a tiny garden in
front. Geraniums grew tall and straggly along
the verandah, with its ant-eaten boards, and a
silver plant made an edging to the small
beds. When you stepped on its leaves it
gave out it queer bitter smell. Sometimes
Lucy thought fantastically that the bitter-
ness was not only the smell of the crushed
silver plant, but her own soul making itselt
evident.
It. was such an old place. Nothing had
ever changed since she came, and it must
have been the same a long while before. The
fences were leaning, and the posts had rotted
behind tin 1 smithy. The little path that led
out from the gate was worn into hollows
in which the rain collected. And so close
to tin* smithy was the house that you had
eternally the smell of scorching hooves, and
you heard the roaring of the fire, and the
clang, clang, clang of the hammer on fhe
anvil —bitten off sharply like a bell rung
true, then pulled up with a jerk.
From the little sitting-room off the ver-
andah—a room that had plush frames and
chairs with cushions tied on—Lucy would
look out sometimes and see Martin standing
on the street with his leather apron, his
black sinewy arms akimbo, and his hairy
chest bare. It made her shudder to see his
hairy chest, his great sagging shoulders, and
the reddish light that glinted in his eyes,
especially after he had been drinking.
She would see him after one of his drink-
ing bouts moving around a little heavily, as
though he were in a daze. And you couldn’t
afford to be slow in the smithy when the
horses came in from Gleeson’s a few miles
away. Great stamping horses these were,
with champing mouths and heavy tufted
hooves that had an odd fascination for her.
How strong they were! One kick, and they
would crack a man's head as though it were
an eggshell!
Old Pete had told her stories of Gleeson’s
wild horses —how one of them had once killed
a man in the station yard. Old Pete, as thin
and dried up as a withered bean, sat out-
side in the sun, with his old hands crossed
over his knotted slick. Sometimes he would
help Martin and the boy in the smithy, but
most often he sat on the wooden seat, near
the pepper-tree, gathering up stories and
giving them out again in his long-drawn
t remolo.
Lucy liked old Pete, though she spoke to
him in the slightly scornful, slightly cautious
way she spoke to everybody. She had faded
fair hair pulled back from her ears, and a
tight little red mouth that gave you the
impression of being buttoned up. It was
buttoned over something that she dared not
speak aloud. When she spoke to Martin
her lips hardly moved and they closed with
a snap as though she feared that something
might come rushing out between them. She
had married him five years before, because
she had thought she must. She discovered
later that she had been tricked, and the
knowledge seared and burned her who liked
men with gentle voices and touch, and all
the soft, pretty things of life. She had no
child. There was only the little grey kitten
that played out on the verandah with a
red woollen ball that she had bought at a
bazaar.
To the grey kitten she would speak ten-
derly, as it sat with a straight little bank,
regarding her with innocent, inquiring eyes.
"Like as if it was a human being," Martin
would say angrily, and he would thrust it
away so that it would run under a chair
and sit licking its lips, its little red tongue;
shooting out.
Sitting in that room with the plush frames,
Lucy always had the consciousness of Mar-
tin's presence with her. And she sat there
most of the time because there was nothing
else to do. It. wasn’t that she was “uppish,"
but somehow she did not make friends easily.
She had a withdrawn air about her that dis-
courages! people. Once she heed genie to
church, and the parson had given a sermon
on drunkenness, and she hael felt that every-
one there was thinking of Martin, and hael
turned round to look at her.
So she would sit in the little front-room,
sewing at fine*, white do.vleys with an air
of listening.
When (Ileeson's horses came in with some
of tin- station-hands she would sit with that
listening air intensified. But as soon as
Martin appeared, calling loudly for his tea,
the- air of waiting would be flattened out te>
something that was not quite patience, but
more like endurance; His bullying evoked
no sharp answer from her. His sudden
violent caresses that were devoid of affection
brought from her no gesture, of distaste.
Only she would sit with that air of quiet
endurance, thinking, “Once I loved him.
But when love goes it does not leave an
empty place—something else comes in its
stead. Something terrible.”
One day Martin came in to her with a
bruised hand.
“One of those damn horses,” he growled.
“It lashed out and caught me on the wrist."
She listened with a kind of radiance
lighting her face.
lie bellowed for water and she got it. and
bound up his hand. lie watched her with
inflamed eyes.
“Sometimes,” he said under his breath as
she held delicately away from him. “I get
the idea that you sort of —well, hate me.
Lucy.”
“Nonsense,” she said, and her mouth but-
toned u)) tightly. “But it’s lonely sitting
here in the house. It gives you funny ideas.
And it’s too close to the smithy. I”
Martin burst out into one of his uncon-
trollable rages;
“Too close* to the smithy, eh. It’s too high
and mighty you are with your la-di-da ways !
If it was good enough for my old mother, it
is good enough for you.”
But he brightened up again soon after,
talking of the show that was to come to the
township a couple of miles away, and hoping
for good weather. It was always a good time
then. Plenty of horses came in. and there
were always extra drinks to be had at the
little pub on the corner.
It was cold, bad weather just before the
show. Old Fete sat out under the pepper,
telling long-winded stories, and the horses
came in from Gleeson’s with clanking feet,
and tails swinging.
Lucy could see them from the sitting-room
where she sat with a little handful of fir*;.
It was a grey day outside. She could hear
the bellows blowing i;i the smithy, find ! h”
sound of the hammer on the anvil, (.'lank,
clank, clank! The kitten, playing under a
chair with its ball of wool, by-and-bye wen:
out with a mysterious suddenness, as though
it had been called.
Juicy sat there thinking, thinking, with a
far-away look in her eyes, and her head a
little on one side. The afternoon deepened.
The leaden sky and the grey rain seemed
to be falling together, and the boughs of the
pepper were flopping and swishing like kelp
in the sea.
Suddenly she became aware of a confused
babble of sound from the smithy. She peered
out between the curtains of the half-opened
window. There was old Pete shuffling up the
path. With him was the boy front Glee-
son’s. Site could smell the harsh, bitter smell
of the silver leaves as the two trod at the edg-'
of the beds, could hear them speaking. They
were muttering something about an accident
—a body. , .
••I’ll tell her,” old Pete was saying with a
wheezing breath. <s l’ve known her for a
long time.”
“You make such a mouthful over every-
thing. Pad Pete,” said the boy from Glee-
son’s. ."You want to get had news over
quick.”
Lucy walked across the room. There was
a slow triumph in her gait. She opened the
door, and tried to keep her smile from coining
back, but her face felt tight, as though it
had had lemon smeared all over it.
Shi' saw the two of them standing there,
tlie old man leaning on his stick with a look
of commiseration in his gentle faded eyes
and Gleeson’s hoy with a furtive, shamed
expression.
"ft’s a terrible bad hit of news. Mrs. Mal-
low.” began old Pete. “It happened this way.
Martin had been shoeing the big roan,
and”
“Go on. get it over,” said Lucy quickly.
Her mouth had become unbuttoned at last.
It was n ghastly moving thing. “Tell me.”
she urged, looking out to the dragging boughs
of the wet pepper-tree.
“They was in the smithy.” said old Pete.
“Martin and the kitten was standing near
the forge. The great brute sort of moved
forward, and got 'mi fair on the head. Yeh!
Its poor little body was all mangled! We
know yon set store by that grey kitten. Mrs.
Mallow"
Lucy was asking in a flat, drained-out
voice : “The kitten? Do you mean the kitten
was”
“Yeh !” There was sympathy in the old
man’s quavering tones. “We done all we
could, but it was a goner.”
“Will we bring the body in?” asked Glee-
son's hoy. “We thought you might like”
lie stopped awkardly. She stared at him.
The kitten! The kitten’x body! “1 don’t
care what you do with it,” she said coldly.
She slammed the door and went in.
“Acted kind of strange.” said old Pete
ruminatingly. “Like as if she didn’t care.
As if”
“Queer things, wimmin,” said Gleeson’s hoy
as he lifted the broken little body in his
freckled hands. “I’ve seen her playing with
it many a time.” lie looked up with a
frown. “Seems to me wimmin is not as soft
as they’re made out to he!”


a
M
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD..
Queensland Agents—HOLMES S CHliKCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. OHiee—1)8-107 l'eatherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Olliee—“Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street,
South Australian Agents: Messrs. EMIKU, SMITH Jt
Melbourne.
CO., LTI>„ Adelaide, S.A.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue is eagerly read by men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and higli-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 223
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: "Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price 1 Id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone, MA3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Queensland's Greatest Newspaper.
To-day, in the great State of Queensland, the newspaper that
offers to merchants and manufacturers unquestionably the
finest “cover” in the daily paper field is
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
Circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be
greater than that of any other Queensland daily.
For rates and other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE,
First Floor, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN'
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER
who will quote you price for
ie, original
Always "First" in Queensland Advertising.
The BRISBANE COURIER
HAS AGAIN PROVED ITS SUPERIORITY AS
QUEENSLAND’S LEADING ADVERTISING
MEDIUM.
In 1027 the “Courier” carried 9,070 columns more than its
morning contemporary. In 1928 the “Courier” increased' its
lead by 386 columns, making a grand total of 9,456 columns
over its morning contemporary.
It\s simply because the “COURIER” is first in Queensland in
CIRCULATION, ADVERTISING AND INFLUENCE.
Bate Cards and specimen copies from ROBT. D. FISHER,
74 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone B 5007.
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Co., “Courier ” Building, Queen
Street, Brisbane; also publishers of the “Queenslander” and “Sports Referee.”
What's the matter with
you
GF
*Mtll : .on. suffer constipation unknowingly. Their
yiminalion is regular, but always a day or two late.
A DOSE AT NIGHT
WILL KEEP YOU RIGHT.
)ou don t quite know what
is the matter with
You're just
you.
SBRI&
You should watch carefully for this
condition. It tells of constipation*
and liver trouble. Headaches, dull
eyes, indigestion and biliousness are
further symptoms.
Act at once ! Take Beecham’s Pills,
the most effective method of conquer*
ing constipation. Purely vegetable,
they keep the bowels,
liver and kidneys
healthy and regular.
0
m&m
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
contains everything that women
should know—from kitchen to
drawing-room, from cradle to
old age. It is the most remark-
able threepenny - worth ever
printed.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
THF. “
ƑG
9-06
Go
F
“ The Examiner” has been the trusted Friend of the Family
in Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in
Tasmania, and is still the Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
.Obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS MR. V. W. MARGETTS MR. W. G DOUGAN
Pty. Ltd.. 122 Flinders Street, ' 701 Herald Building, ’
73-75 Patterson Street, MELBOURNE 66 Pin Street
LAUNCESTON. SYDNEY.
ƑG
0°
6V
s 6 ' t*
<S 6 ®
, ...- ...•v/v?*
■?>*


it with
