

dfgfdg
AND
FOR
m
gp-
\ ;: A
m
m
Q.
m
i
l
r
■
HAPPY
GIFT/
VEST POCKET KODAK.—
Well finished and dainty—
makes a most friendly and
thoughtful gift. Simply sur-
prising value at 26/6. Picture
size, 24 x lg inches.
KODAK PETITE—A fas-
cinatingly tiny Kodak in a
range of five delicate colors,
with case to match. Ko more
delightful gift could be found
anywhere at 42/6—it’s almost
a gift.
THE FOLDING HAWKEYES.
—-Compact and well-equipped
models, ready to make their
share of hapfty holiday snap-
shots. No. 2, for pictures 2J
X 3 \ inches, Price, 42/6. Get
a Hawkeye and be sure of
some good Christmas pictures.
POCKET KODAKS.—Holiday
fun is too good to be for-
gotten—remember all in Pocket
Kodak snapshots ‘ Prices
from 52/6, the up-to-date and
efficient No. 1 model for pic-
tures 2:} x 3 i inches. Values
are absolutely unequalled.
BOX BROWNIES IN COLOR.
series conies in bright
and cheery colors, good to look
at, and gay to -carry ; in blue,
red, green, brown or grey. No.
2, for pictures 2i x 3J inches,
Price, 16/6; No. 2A, for pic-
tures 21 x 4| inches, Price,
21/6.
REGULAR MODELS IN
BLACK. —A wide range, priced
from 11/3. Be sure and see
the ingenious Portrait Brownie,
Price 19/6, and the Holi-
day Brownie with trim and
smart colored carrying case
(Price, 20/-).
These Kodaks
are all ready to make the happiest
of snapshots on Christmas morning
and all through the year. There are
models at all prices—something for
everyone—young or old. Give a
Kodak and you give real happiness!
Write or call for your copy of our Christmas Booklet.
" 379 George Street, Sydney.
The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
■ 662 Hay Street, Perth.
A
Of all Kodak dealers
” a KODAKMM
(Australasia)
PTY. LTD.
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
East Street, Rockhampton.
Flinders Street, Townsville.
162 Queen Street, Auckland.
*' o Princess Street, Dunedin.
Lambton Quay, Wellington.
The Bulletin
/toWW- /t i/\k&k/ *
Vol. 51.—N0. 2650.
Wednesday, November 26, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


GIVE BOOK PRESENTS.
72-page “XMAS CATALOGUE” Now Ready.
Posted Free Anywhere, on Request.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
G.P.O. Box 1521 DD.
ManceJo^m
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON !
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write lor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name .. • •
Mu Address
5.8.310
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
L /
THE YACHTING
PARTY
Host Holbrook Says:
“Yo ho and a bottle
of sauce! Aye, the sea
air makes the appetite
keen and my Wor-
cestershire Sauce adds
a zest to the snack
partaken on board.
Always keep a bottle
in the locker.”
§ 111!*?*
mz®
r*
ilsms
1“W
L>
ass
SSs**
mM
SBS
• :•;, v —s 7 *:*:'**’
v. - » -v **•-
Ss*S3&:
m
XMAS 1930. Give him a
ROLLS
RAZOR
The British ONE BLADE Safety, which will
give him years of comfortable shaves and
save him the cost of thousands of wafer blades.
The price of a ROLLS RAZOR includes the
price of the strop, the hone apd special fool-
proof stropping mechanism.
FIVE YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
TBE IDEAL GIFT FOR ANY MAN.
Imperial Model—
No. 1, 50/-; No. 2, 407-
Special Xmas Gift Models, Gold-plated
Models and Travellers’ sets.
The Rolls Razor Co. of Aust.,
8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
MICK SIMMONS, LTD.,
Wholesale distributors for N.S.W., Haymarket,
Sydney.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two IVllnut&s
from Entrance to Domain and Circular"
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGEIR.
If any illustration in "The Bulletin”
-V -
,
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
~.' , , .
who will quote you price tor the original.
C
4
©
*4
w
Close to shopping and
theatre districts, yet situate
in exclusiveneighbourhood.
Two minutes from Royal
Albert Hall. Overlooking
Royal Parks. Central heat-
ing, running water and tele-
phone in every bedroom.
Private bathrooms, self-
contained suites, garage.
Inclusive daily, weekly or
monthly terms.
Telegrams: “Improvisor,” Kensington.
in the social heart of the first city
of the world’
under same direction.
Brighton
GRAND PUMP
ROOM HOTEL
ROYAL _
CRESCENT
HOTEL
■
n
o
) T* 3
3
0
8
4
1
Op
V 5
Paris, the cradle
ol elegance
has adopted the Omega watch as stan-
dard of good taste.
It is the favourite of discriminating
people throughout the world for the
beauty of its lines and the unfailing
accuracy of its movement.
At the better jewellers only.
Omega
EXACT TIME FOB LIFE
The Red Page
Lawson’s Autobiography
Henry Lawson used to live in Bay Road
(they call it Waverton now). There is a
local legend that he used to walk down a
street well out of his way for the occasional
pleasure of telling a corner resident what he
thought of him. That may be only a
furphy, though there is no accounting for
a man’s choice in recreation.
Anyway, Lawson might have pleaded,
with reason, that there is not much else
to do in Waverton. It is the most respect-
able suburb in the world. If you see a
fellow walking along the dark side of a
street with a drab arm round a girl’s white
waist it is an event. Waverton is the first (
stop on the North Shore line, and yet it
has no flats, no post office, not even a
school. It is as respectable as that. Nor
is there a pub, nor a policeman. You simply
have to see yourself home. The respecta-
bility is not even confined to the shore. Out
there, in the sequestered waters of Berry’s
Bay, lies anchored the old Sobraon, none the
less a symbol of respectability* because she
happens to be also the inspiration of Percy
Lindsay. Certainly Mr. W. M. Hughes
passes through our suburb on his way up
to Lindfield; but he does not stop. Indeed,
we are disturbed by politicians only once in
three years or so. There is no other dese-
cration, unless you remember that two
journalists live here, or think of the door-
to-door hawkers, who are thick as flies.
They, however, do not peddle anything
lewder than tooth-brushes; and neither of
the journalists is on the “Herald.”
Lorries loaded with coal drop lumps in
the main street (the adjective distinguishes
it from the other one) in their hurry to the
gasworks, and little girls and some of the
women go out and pick the fragments up in
their dresses. The boys, not being so con-
veniently dressed, and also having a cer-
tain dignity, trundle billy-carts after the
shattered bits. These are Lawson people,-
and he wrote about some of them when he
was here. But you will ask up and down
these streets for tidings of him in vain. For
mostly it is a new generation here. I recog-
nise one or two I used to know in the bush.
Now they are fat and retired, and always
fussing about a lawn or rubbing a motor-car
with a rag. One of them was where I was
in the bush when Lawson died. He hadn’t
heard of Lawson, I told him ; but he still
hasn’t heard of Lawson. Few of this genera-
tion know anything about Lawson, except
as a figure of speech. Certainly they don’t
read him. That is not necessarily a dis-
paragement. This generation represents
Time; and Time is a critic as ruthless
usually as he is right. They know Lawson,
the human figure, as Australia mostly does
now—as a legend, after the fashion of the
Lambert memorial group, with a dog,
though it was probably cats he liked, and
in his shirt sleeves, though he clung to his
coat as closely as he did to the stick, which
is also missing here.
When Lambert did that work the Lawson
of life had, of course, been dead for years.
He had gone out with the brass band that
he had wanted; a State funeral; a consider-
able amount of sentiment—true, and poli-
tical. The influence that makes myths got
to work at once. The Lawson of life was
pushed into the background. He was not
merely dead—he had never existed. In his
stead arose the popular acceptance to which
Lambert gave this local habitation. I have
heard some rather caustic criticism of this
particular work of Lambert’s. One good
critic, who knew Henry Lawson, looking on
it said that no doubt it was a good idea to
have a statue of the auctioneer named
Lawson who once lived in Sydney, but it
did seem a pity that there was not one also,
of the writer of the same name. Yet Lam-
bert might have acted quite legitimately as
a creative artist in giving substance not to
the Lawson of life but to the legend of
Lawson. It does not matter much if the
figure by Lambert is not clearly the Lawson
who lived, so long as it is the Lawson who
wrote.
I believe it is that Lawson, because that
is much the sort of person who will be
found in Lawson’s work in general, and in
particular in the fragment of autobiography,
a careful selection from which will fill this
Red Page in the Christmas and New Year
numbers of The Bulletin, December 3 and
December 31. The autobiography was
written when Lawson was a city adult, but
it is concerned only with the Lawson of
under 21. Clearly, it was what Lawson
absorbed before he was 21 that makes him,
what most of our literary demigods are not,
a part of intrinsic Australia. Lawson is part
of Australia simply because Australia sank
deep into him in his childhood, and, of
course, because there was some depth there
to sink into. He did not gather it knock-
ing about the bush with a dog and a swag
and his sleeves rolled up. But the Aus-
tralia of his day was like that, and he saw
it and interpreted it, and in his turn Lam-
bert saw it and interpreted it, too.
The legendary Lawson, in short, is the
true Lawson. In physical outline the Lam-
bert group is all wrong. In spirit—which
matters—it is right. How right may be
understood after a reading of his autobio-
graphy. It is most engaging reading in
any cas.e. There are doings in it that would
not be tolerated in Waverton. Hullo!
We’re back here again! And here on a
table in a most respectable room is a copy
of Lawson’s first poem. I doubt whether
it has ever been printed. It runs:—-
William called the Conqueror
Was a brave and gallant knight,
But he was a cruel and evil king
And his principle was fight.
When Lawson’s mother read that, she gave
the poet pen and paper and told him to
keep on. She also burnt the touching tribute
to t-he Conqueror.
CECIL MANN.
The Theatre and the Drama
Mr. Dailey (B. 15/10/’3O) fails to see the
point of my attack on the theatre. For one
thing, he confuses the theatre with the
drama. Most educated people are supposed
to know something of the work of Ibsen,
Strindberg, Tchekhov, Curel, Synge,
O’Neill; but how often has Mr. Dailey
had an opportunity of seeing their plays
during his theatre-going life? In the matter
of buildings he admits that some of the
London theatres are so constructed that half
the audiences can’t see or hear the shows
properly.
My point was that the present London
theatre with its amorphous buildings, its
gilt royal boxes, its hierarchy of lessees and
sub-lessees and its quaint finance is an
out-moded institution. Its whole atmo-
sphere makes the production of good drama
difficult. Consider the tortuous path a play
has to travel before it reaches the boards.
The dramatist must first get hold of an
actor-manager and force him to read his
play. He must persuade him, not only that
it has a fat part for a good actor, but that
it has a prospect of running for a con-
siderable number of nights. Long enough
to give all the numerous theatrical para-
sites their cut out of the profits! Suppose
the play is accepted. The next step is for
the producer to go to the city and capture
some sporty young financier to give it back-
ing. A difficult business this, for the finan-
cier’s notion of a good play is likely to be
different from the producer’s; and the his-
tory of most plays that finally reach the
boards is something like that of a compli-
cated bill going through both Houses of
Parliament.
There is a deadweight of finance to carry
in the cinema business, too-, of course; but
it is not so heavy as it is sometimes made
out to be, and cinema directors who are
also creative artists are getting chances
that Granville Barker and Gordon Craig
would not get. They are gradually evolving
an art of the film, and their best produc-
tions are being taken very seriously. I
don’t think the London “Observer” ever
gave such careful attention or such lyrical
praise to a play as it did recently to
Dovjenko’s film “The Earth.” Mr. Shaw
is mistaken if he thinks that the cinema’s
chief development will be toward giving
representations of his plays, or anyone else’s
for the matter of that. There is no point
in photographing plays written under the
compulsion of having to gather all the
characters into a single scene during one
act; the camera, by its power to hop
from room to street, from present to past,
can so easily transcend this convention.
On the other hand, plays have their own
capacities for illusion which no mere
graph can rival—the direct, human voice,
the ordinary perspectives of life, the sense
of intimate contact with living people.
The cinema has its advantages, too, one
of which is its power to represent masses
and the teeming flow of life. It has suc-
ceeded most where it has got right away
from the technique of the theatre. There
would be no possibility of turning “Halle-
lujah” or “Storm Over Asia” into plays
without draining all the vitality out of them.
Similarly most cinema versions of plays
seem unreal and thin, and are bound to be
so. The two arts are separate, and can
only be mixed to the stultification of each.
Yet it is possible for the cinema to give
a stimulus to the dramatist.- It can show'
him ways to suggest the variety and flow
of life; can open doors on new worlds. As
for the possibility of his being swamped
by the popular cult of moving pictures,
there is little danger of that. He has no
need to weep because the old theatre, which
didn’t nourish him, is being destroyed by
the modern palace. There is no need for
anyone to weep, except elderly clubmen who
fondle memories of Nellie Stewart as Nell
Gwynne or Sarah Bernhardt supporting her-
self with the adjacent furniture while she
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


Value, service and “TRUTH IN ADVERTISING.” These have made Anthony Horderns’ what it is.
\
W,
13
r
rr-s-:
$3
i
X
j\\
As-i - L
±
k. %•
The Man rides a “Marathon” at £9/7/6
The “Marathon” Bicycle possesses many features usually found' only
in far more expensive models. Frame of weldless steel tubing, 28in.
wheels, Dunlop tyres, covers and tubes guaranteed 15 months.
Handle bars, reversible half drop bar or Major Taylor, with grips.
Chain, -gin. roller; chain wheel, detachable and 7in. cranks; English
saddle; pedals, 3fin. rat-trap or rubber. Finished in black stove
enamel of good quality. Complete with set of tools in bag, oil can,
inflator and clips. Price • £9/7/6
With Coaster. Price £lO
Lady’s “Marathon.” Price £ll
The “Challenger Bicycle” - - £B/7/6
Built in our own workshop of all British Material, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24
inch frames of best weldlesr. steel tubing, 28in. x If in. wheels.
Williams’s chain wheels and cranks, gin. x fin. rat-trap pedals.
Finished with black enamel and transfers. Moseley’s Damos tyres,
28in. x 1-fin. Bag, inflator and clips £B/7/6
With Eadie Coaster Hub. Price £B/19/6
The Boy rides a “Hercules” at £7/15/-
The Boy’s “Hercules” Bicycle is a well-constructed machine of British
manufacture. Specifications: Frame sizes, 16in., 18in., 20in.; wheels
and tyres, 20, 24, 26 x If inches, nickel-plated rims; upturned handle
bars; front rim brake. Coaster hub (which includes free-wheel and
back-pedalling brake). Beautifully finished in black enamel, lined.
Complete with inflator and tools. Price £7/15/-
Girl’s Fixed Wheel. Price £7/10/-
Girl’s Coaster Hub. Price £B/2/6
{Dept., Second Floor. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.)
Enjoy Life!
—with a Cycle
A cycle opens up vast possibilities in the field of health
and enjoyment at a minimum cost. Every week-end
you can go for an inexpensive trip—for handiness, too,
they are a wonderful investment. For many people
it is possible to pay for a cycle in what they save in ’bus
fares alone. The models we feature here are of best
manufacture and carry our full guarantee of satisfaction.
Remember, if more convenient than paying cash, you
can use our Deposit-Purchase-System. It costs no extra.
Send for our Christmas Catalogue—it
is packed from cover to cover with good
things for personal use and for pre-
sentation purposes—all at remarkably
low prices , Post free on request.
Anthony Horderns'
(THE SENIOR STORE),
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS. LIMITED. SYDNEY.
Postal Address.
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


!►
I
Goodyear Tyres are
made in Australia and
they cost no i
any other
ore than
make.
GOO D
'S.


m
lH
i
a
/
YOUR SUMMER UNDERWEAR
for
4/9
Garment!
If you feel the heat excessively in summer, it is due
largely to two facts THINKING heat combined with
wearing the wrong kind of clothing. Now, however,
there is no need to suffer thus far, for David Jones’
have a very wide range of the coolest underwear
for -hot days.
An excellent line of cool, cotton gauze, with vests,
pants and knee drawers, sizes 34 to 44 inches,
is priced at ... ... ... ... ... 4/9
Why Not Start Your Christmas Shopping Early?
LOWER GROUND FLOOR & GEORGE ST.
DAVID JONES’
tears a passion to tatters. The number
of new play-societies of all kinds (both
here and in America and Europe) shows
that there is more interest in the spoken
drama than there ever was, and probably in
10 years we will be seeing better plays
in better theatres.
VANCE PALMER.
"The Last Paradise”
In times when hope is rising, as in the
Elizabethan age, writers are robust, red-
blooded, confident. In times of disillusion
and despair, such as the present, they are
divided into two camps. In one are the
pessimists, the realists and the cynics; in
the other those who in rosy, romantic
dreams strive to forget the uncomfortable
present. The Last Paradise, by Hickman
Powell (Cape; Robertson and Mullens)
belongs to the last-named category. The
last paradise is Bali, the island midway
between Darwin and Singapore, and likely
to be a regular stopping-place on the Aus-
tralian-England air route.
As literature the book is a brilliant tour
de force. As a picture of the country one
has one’s doubts, especially if one has lived
alongside and visited the island off and on
for the last 20 years, as I have done. Powell
resurrects the vision of the romantic savage
propagated by Rousseau in a similar age of
despair and disillusion. Actually, instead of
the South Sea savage living a carefree life
unlike anything attainable in eighteenth-
century Europe, he was surrounded by more
terrors, ruled with more imperious and irra-
tional taboos, than the most despotically
governed white man who envied him. In
one of the islands which Rousseau imagined
was an earthly Eden it was the custom to
keep girls imprisoned in a wicker cage,
because it was believed that until they
became women they were charged with a
sinister electricity that would electrocute
anj'- of the male sex who came near them.
And when the tourists have finished rhap-
sodising, and romantic writers like Powell
have done painting their ecstatic pictures,
it will be found that the life of the Balinese
is no more compleat beer and skittles than
that of a New Yorker. I can remember
when the custom of burning its widows so
that they might continue to minister to the
spiritual and physical needs of their lord
was only just beginning to be made unpopu-
lar by the Dutch authorities.
Nevertheless, every race has its soul, and
Powell, a first-class journalist if not a psy-
chologist, makes a fascinating show of dis-
secting the soul of Hindu Bali. Though
observing the rules of caste, the people
are curiously democratic. Though their
religion is one of the most frightful horror,
they retain their natural gaiety. Of their
art Powell makes too much. It is grotesque,
fantastic, incredibly over-decorative. It is
Hindu art in decay, not in ascension. Its
chief merit is that it is still a living art,
practised, not by a few specialists, but by
the entire nation. That it is still unusually
vital is shown by the fact that in new
frescoes on the temple walls appear carvings
of bicycles, motor-cars and aeroplanes—
probably the Southern Cross Junior has
recently been added. Its ancient dances,
the shadow show and its music are un-
touched by modernising influences. Our
author has some interesting things to
say about the music; and the amazingly
vigorous, incessant and picturesque religious
life of the people—they spend almost as
large a proportion of their earnings on
pious festivals as we do on films and foreign
wrestlers—is vividly painted.
The Bali described in The Last Para-
dise is doomed to extinction, and those
who want to see it hed better hurry be-
fore the bare-breasted women put on
Mother Hubbards and the cock-fighting
menfolk take to midget golf. The last time
I visited the island an American oilman
was also there on business.
M.G.S.
Memoirs of a Melbournite
In publishing Life’s Panorama, by John
A. Gurner, K.C., at 205., Lothian’s have
clone an epoch-making job. The binding,
reproductions of photographs and general
format are equal to those of any overseas
publications at the price, and if there are
any printer’s errors the writer has been
unable to detect them. Such a production
is .an effective answer to the claim that
editions of British and foreign books can’t
be printed locally, as they are in the U.S.A.,
owing to the “prohibitive price of labor.”
The contents are the gossiping chron-
icles of a member of one of Australia’s
oldest and most distinguished families.
The original Gurner arrived in Sydney with
his wife in Macquarie’s day to take up a
clerkship in what was then the Court of
King’s Bench. His son (father of the
memoir-writer) was born and educated in
Sidney, but went to Melbourne at the age
of 24, and was admitted as a solicitor a
few weeks after the first sitting of the
Supreme Court. From now on the book
becomes largely a history of Melbourne and
its notabilities, with rambling excursions
into all kinds of social, legal and political
byways. Stories of Cheltenham College
(under Barry, afterwards Bishop of Syd-
ney), where the future K.C. was at school;
ot Cambridge, where he took a law degree;
of the Inner Temple, where he was called
to the Bar; and of Victoria in the ’eighties
when he started practice, are mixed up with
remarks about spiritualism, capital punish-
ment, Ireland, Californian politics and any
°^ lCr subject that enters his head; and the
whole is interspersed with jokes and anec-
dote ?> some no longer in the first flush of
but all amusing. Altogether a
dei ightful book which will not only interest
evei Y &ood Victorian, but should be of
dol ) si derable value to future Australian his-
onans*
J.B.D.
A Satchel of Books
New Plays from Japan, translated by
Yozan T. Iwasaki and Glenn H’ughes
(Bean). According to a foreword, “The
playwrights of modern Japan fall into two
groups: those who maintain the native tradi-
tion by adapting and rewriting the old stage
pieces, the doll plays and Kabulci plays; and
those who have succumbed to European
fashions and ideas.” The three plays here
presented are very dull. “Death,” by Takeo
Arishima, is a description of the death by
consumption of a wife and its effect on her
husband. “A Family Affair,” by Mushakoji,
is a comedy wdiose humor has presumably been
lost in translation. “Burning Her Alive,” by
►Senzaburo Sudzuki, closes with a ■ painter
creating his greatest masterpiece by setting
fire to his unfaithful mistress. It is simply a
sordid tragedy told without imagination.
“European fashions and ideas” have done no
good to these three dramatists, at any rate.
The Flame on Ethirdova, by Hector
Bolitko (Cobden-Sanderson), is a mediaeval
parable. The inhabitants of the valley of
Ethirdova misbehave, and the' Creator
destroys all but 300 of them. The saintly
Brother Hubertus passes through many tribu-
lations and agonies, and eventually falls
asleep in a place where “the moon lighted
the whiteness of the lilies which grew
pressed closely together.”
Lying thus he dreamed a dream, and he saw a
figure standing against the great moving sky. The
mists came down again, and there was a golden cloud
which moved past them, and out of it came a hand,
lie looked and saw within the palm seven shining
stars. A voice spoke to him in his dream, and said,
“Who are thou?”
The dreamer gives his name, the Owner
of the voice explains that His love has
descended on the residents of Ethirdova
again through Hubertus, and the latter is
caught up in a “holy flame.” Cabell used
to do this mannered, self-consciously beauti-
ful nonsense much more picturesquely, and
he spiced it with humor, which Mr. Bolitho
lacks.
Rosemary Booklets. —This year’s issue of
these charming little gift booklets, published
by Lothian, Melbourne, at 25., includes
“Matesliip,” by Henry Lawson ; “Love, Life
and Loyalty,” and “The Divine in Man,”
by Elbert Hubbard.
The Man with the Squeaky Voice, by R.
A. J. Walling (Methuen), fled to the U.S.A.
with the Vanstead diamonds. Later he
returned to England, where his accomplices
were waiting for him. Parkinson never
should have taken to large-scale crime, being
an abject cur and a double-crosser, as well
as a conspicuous figure by reason of his
voice. So, “Parkinson had to die. He was
killed with no more compassion than a rat.”
The two journalists who got on to his track
on page one discover who killed him in due
course, and a well-told yarn ends with a
double marriage in the offing.
The hero of Lad of Sunnybank, by Albert
Payson Terliune (Chapman and Hall), is a
“huge mahogany-and-snow collie.” Lad’s
picture has been drawn by a practised hand;
in fact, the author mentions in an afterword
that he has been writing about his animal
friend for 15 years. This novel is for dog-
lovers only. Others will find it a little
strained in its sentimentalism; also, its
blackest villains are all people who do not
love dogs.
Bertram Atkey’s The House of Strange
Victims (Appleton) has a detective who is
a millionaire duke, and his chief assistant is
a cousin who is referred to variously as Lord
Manfred Kayne, Lord Kayne and Sir Man-
fred Ivayne. Sir Morgan Greave, a present-
day Rasputin, gets moneyed members of the
aristocracy into liis toils by means of a
secret drug, and he is making a good thing
out of the scheme financially when the Duke
intervenes. The pictures of life above-stairs
would be more impressive if the author had
taken the trouble to get his titles right, but
he certainly knows how to tell an exciting
yarn. This one would make a perfect
crime talkie.
The Body on the Floor, by Nancy Barr
Mavity (Collins), is primarily the story of
an American newspaper scoop. At a time
when the “Herald” is in urgent need of an
exclusive murder a member of the staff finds
the estranged wife of a millionaire lying
dead on the kitchen floor of her ranch. Ash-
bury, her faithless lover, is arrested, but as
Peter Piper, the pressman who lias charge
of the case, points out: “There are four
others with motive, opportunity and dis-
position to kill Mrs. Cole.” The solution
of the mystery brings promotion to Jerry,
the ambitious young reporter who first gave
the office the glad news that the body was
on the floor, and happiness to all except
the perpetrator of the crime, whose photo
is given a centre position in a six-column
“Herald” cut, with one of the deceased and
the ranch house in an inset.
John T. Mclntyre’s The Museum Murder
(Blcs) offers a new line in amateur detec-
tives. Young Duddington Pell Chalmers is
the fattest man in New York and an epicure
as regards food. When Mr. Custis, the cura-
tor of the Gregory Museum, is murdered,
Duddington gets busy, and in a compara-
tively short time thrusts an adipose finger
into the heart of the mystery. Sandwiched
in between the story of his labors in the
cause of justice is some interesting stuff
about pictures and picture-faking.
A Complete Course of Practical Flying,
by Lt.-Col. G. L. P. Henderson, M.C.,
A.F.C. (Hamilton; Robertson and Mullens).
As far as a beginner can learn flying from
a book this should teach him. The writer
advises from an experience of 5000 hours
in the air and 11 years’ teaching of the
raw recruit in his own flying school. In-
structions are so clearly and vividly given
that a pupil with imagination can easily
fancy himself in the cockpit alongside the
teacher.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice ( except of a hostile character ) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted ;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Habet: “Pay’’ pretty well done; but idea
has corns on its feet. “Women” has some good
lines—the last the weakest. Keep 0n.... Elizabeth:
Quite good. When did you write it ?.... Naudes:
Agree with you ; but you do mix your metaphors....
P.H.C.: A poor thing... .A.E.A.: One good couplet
in the sailor’s “Hateful Night”:—
With other lips to kiss
My love you do not miss.
....A. de C.: Not much poetry in it, but a brave
spirit, anyhow... .C.T.R.: All such time-worn themes.
. ...M.P.: Too thin... .H.W.: A bit too bookish.
... .L.J.F.: You make your hero sound like the most
conceited kid in the w0r1d.... Ruby R.: Leave off
writing for five years and study. At present you’ve
got nothing to say.... Richard II.: Nearly. Can’t
you let yourself go a bit more?... .Beatrice B.:
Neat, but featherweight.... Bill Burke: Try some-
thing simpler... .H.R.D.: Don’t think you’ve got
much hope; your ear was put on crooked... .Otto:
Good ! Gome in :
Oh, don’t give way, when the boss doth say “It’s
the end of you on next pay day!”
.Tust count your tin with an elfish grin, and mend
the sock with a safety-pin.
....Conrad: Get your ear tuned before you sing
again... .H.D.: Effort to rhyme “Orion” and “bowl-
ing” is awarded this week’s V.C Hilda F.: Read
your address to the ocean, bidding it roar, dash,
foam, lave, fume and thunder like a lion. It replied
that it had already heard from Byron on the subject.
....Jean I.: This paper fails to visualise even a
poetess “homing like a dove”... .L.H.: Kindly feel-
ing; tottery expression... .J.L.P.: Not quite
J.R.E.: “Song of a Shell” is a dud... .M.S.: Such a
harmless little twitter!.... Scot: Too dangerous unless
you can tell us how you are going to fix wages
and prices... .L.G.G.: Knocked at the door, but not
loud enough... .A.W. W.: Rambles too much....
0.J.8.: No accommodation for the pawnshop philo-
sopher.., .T.A.D.: Not drawing a cheque for sketch
“drawn from life”... .R.H.W.: The ingredients are
there, but you’re a poor c00k... .R.H.W.: A feeble
ending... .C.F.C.: Read it twice. Still mystified.
. ...W.J.W.: It’s not criticism you need, it’s an
anaesthetic... .S.S.: Pursue your “Quest”: —
To look to a found desire
And beginning whilst
To invest and admire
With heart in trust.
Asking where.
To drive beginnings
Where found to care
Or most ends brings
To quest a zeal.
The deepest,
Doth rime the real as sweetest,
Yet proud in quest
Lie the borders to thy test.
A.M.T.: Planted “The Skull” E.J.5..: The
medico ought to take down his brassplate after that.
.... Firebrand: We thank Heaven for your merry
heart even if we can’t stomach your verse....
William C. : “Master” is distinctly promising....
Rursus: You move us deeply with your
I’m damned if I know what Tiib Bulletin want;
If they bought the Eats I’d be horribly gaunt.
I’ve discoursed on Labor, Liquor and Love;
From Hell beneath to Heaven above;
I’ve exploited for image the humors of earth,
And snivelled with pathos, gurgled with mirth.
I get near the mark with a promising line—■
What use is “near” when it’s just too fine?
... .Stewart G.: Idea has white whiskers. .. .H.V.M.:
Sorry, but the bank that issues the optimistic notes
isn’t cashing them just now. .. .lan J.: Keep on:
you’ll do something worth while yet... .P.E.H.:
You’re a far better liar than you are a poet....
T.W.A.: Sloppy... .G.C.: Spent a heart-breaking 10
minutes on it.. . .N.R.: Worth submitting again if
you can condense and strengthen it. ...D.D.: It’s
been said before and better....E.M.S.L.: Crushed
a ’weight to the ton. .. .E.J.K.: “Voice from the
Past” just a whimper... .W.D.F.: Comic yarns about
soft-hearted burglars have to be especially bright
to get a second reading... .H.G.G.: Try something
more realistic.. . .E.M.M.: There are nearly 6,500,000
Australians to write about, and you go looking for
characters among cockroaches... .L.W.S.: The fun is
forced.
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
K.P.: A beginning, but not an auspicious 0ne....
A. 11.: A fumbler with the pen and a bungler with
the brush. ...R.P.8.: What do those blobs represent?
. ...8.W.: Congratulations on the border but not on
what it encloses... .5.J.11.: Threat to persevere
gloomily noted. .. .M.D.: Flappers appear to have
bathed in a sea of starch. .. .T.11.F. : Just ordinary
student work. . . .C.T.: Soften your strokes in the
rear and keep an eye on the foreshortening....
M.W.: Stick to it, but the going will be hard....
V.S.C.: Postpone your bombardments till you’ve been
taught for a year or tw0....M.K.: Spruiker didn't
sweeten his abuse with wit. ...P.S.: From what
moving-picture ad. did you crib that?...G.F.P.: Jacky
had two right hands... . A.W.: Looks more like a
cornsack than a fur coat. . . .A.N.: Hasn't that farmer
got Choom out of bed yet?... .M.R.M.: Falls short.
. ...S.J.M.: “A Drop of Scotch” dropped into
basket... .ILL.: At least we admire your energy.
. ...L.A.R.: Rubbish.... S.W.: As far off as ever.
. ...F.L.H.: Not bidding for that.... L. A. : Front-
fence gossipers are doing the return trip... .F.L.H.
(Cremorne) : Forget about it... .H.W.: Quite promis-
ing.


9
m
Mggm %
n
■ .
Kj • ■ .•• :'i
: ; :.v,;.'"
■
Sr?
■. He
/.
r
. /
*
\
X
f
■ n
■
.
-V
-■’
mm
mm&L,
m
mm
u
m
I
:
m
A
m
t
m
m
VfUM
)mt*r


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2650.
November 26, 1930.
FEAR.
“If they don’t mean any harm, why do they say such dreadful things!”


Christmas Number
Next Week —December 3
Ordinary Issue and
Christmas Number together.
NO INCREASE IN PRICE.
Stories by Albert Dorrington, Steele Rudd,
J. H. M. Abbott and other leading writers;
drawings by Norman Lindsay, Low, the
late Alf Vincent, Minns, Leason, Scorfield,
Percival and 20 others; verse by all the
best.
And Henry Lawson’s frank autobiography,
wherein the poet tells of his boyhood, how
he grew up and how he began to write.
A most engrossing self-study.
TWO ISSUES IN ONE
Price 6d.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 211/ George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521111 S ; >Phone 87971.
Victoria: 11//-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westi:alia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : S 6 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5705.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to anv address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6a.;
3 months, 7s.
To ANV address Ovurseas: 12 months, £1 10s.,
(> months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
ECONOMY MUST COME.
Three typical things have been done by
the greater governing authorities of Aus-
tralia during the past week or so. The
Loan Council decided to issue a conversion
loan of 27 millions and added to that a
million qn general principles; the Common-
wealth Government proceeded to put an-
other eighteenpence on to the income tax,
making the third staggering increase this
year; and in N. S. Wales the Lang Gov-
ernment approved of a State lottery to
assist the revenue. Not one of these
things is of the smallest value in getting
Australia out of its difficulties.
Sir Otto Niemeyer stressed the import-
ance of balancing our budgets, and since
then the point has been overstressed. The
mere balancing of budgets is not necessarily
a national service at. all. Whether it is
good or bad depends upon how the balanc-
ing is done. If, instead of practising
economies, taxation is piled higher and
higher, until industry is crushed, the balanc-
ing thereby produced is of no value to
either debtor or creditor. For this reason
Australian efforts at budget-balancing,
mainly the result of a half-consideration of
Sir Otto’s report, have done more harm
than good. It may be that, had he received
any encouragement,- Sir Otto would have
supplemented his principal report, pointing
out the dangers as they developed. If he
saw those dangers, as no doubt he did, and
decided to risk no more abuse by men-
tioning them, we have only our young Mr.
Beasley and his ill-mannered group to
thank for it. At any rate, this fact stands:
our position, instead of being improved by
our efforts at budget-balancing, has been
made a great deal worse, because heavier
and still heavier taxation has been depended
upon to do what should have been almost
wholly accomplished by economy.
If Australian Governments are sailing
under false colors, and if Communism is
really their objective, they are going, the
right way to work. An appeal to this
country to adopt Communism, along with
the repudiation of debts' which if implies,
would have not the smallest' chance of
acceptance; and nobody knows " that better
than the heads of the international Com-
munist party themselves. Hence their
adoption of the indirect method; and if
they have not actually planned the policy
which the Federal Government and the
Lang Government in N. S. Wales are fol-
lowing, they undoubtedly approve of it.
The two things which they aim at in the
financial sphere are well on the way: capital
is being gradually taken from those who
have it by processes of taxation and other
forms of what is admitted to be legalised
theft, and distributed among the workers
through relief jobs and the basic wage, the-
latter paid whether it is earned or not;
and it is being gradually made impossible
for this country to escape default and prob-
ably repudiation. Politicians, from Prime
Minister downwards, declare that they
stand for the honoring of all our obliga-
tions. But while they allow the country
to thus drift into a position where the
honoring will be impossible, their declara-
tions are mere humbug.
The thing that matters above all others
in Australia is production.; and nothing
else can take its place. Mr. Lang may
start his State lottery, and it will add not
one grain to the wealth of the country or
make it in the smallest degree more cap-
able of paying its debts. A lottery may
bring in revenue; that is to say, the State
may take a rake-off from the money that
is gambled. But nowhere will two blades
of grass grow where only one grew before;
nowhere will a new forge be added to a
factory. Mr. Lang might multiply his lot-
tery by a hundred; he might get in millions
of revenue instead of thousands. But all
his millions would not pay the interest on
our overseas debt for one single hour.
Yet when we face the facts of production
we discover that they are very hard. The
markets for all the things we can best pro-
duce are very low. Wheat, upon which we
were urged a few months ago to greatly
rely, is worth no more than about
2s. 3d. per bushel at the growers’ railway
sidings. Wool, meat, metals—every thing has
slumped in the world’s markets. Yet they
must be produced, no matter how cheap
they are, or we must go broke. There is
no alternative. Balanced budgets will not
save us. On the contrary, if a budget is
balanced only by adding to taxes, and there-
fore to costs of production, it is a handicap
and not an aid. The Federal Government
is being blamed now for having called upon
farmers to plant more wheat. It could do
nothing else. It will have to do the same
thing again. Even if the price falls still
lower, we shall still have to grow more
wheat. We are told that it cannot be done
at the price. Well, if it cannot be done
at the price we must confess ourselves
bankrupt. And that is all there is about
it. But we shall not do that without making
a fight for it. At; present we are not making
any fight. We are not making any . attempt
to "reduce costs. On the contrary, we are
steadily pushing them up; - for increase
of taxation means almost always an in-
crease. of costs.
Let us make up our minds which we are
going to be—honest men or defaulters.
We shall not be honest men merely by
proclaiming the fact in a loud voice at every
opportunity. Senator Barnes, for example,
declares that he has always paid his own
debts, and is going to see that his country
pays its debts. That is excellent as far as
it goes. But in paying his personal debts,
Senator Barnes has not made any reserva-
tions. He has not said, “I will pay my'
debts if it doesn’t interfere with my stand-
ard of living.” But that is what the Labor
party is saying to-day—or a large section
of it.
There is nothing more unpopular than
economy. But, whatever it costs, it has
got to come —either that or default and
repudiation, things which are being staved
off now only with the greatest difficulty.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, .0
HENRY LAWSON’S AUTOBIOGRAPHY . . 2
THE THEATRE AND THE DRAMA—
By Vance Palmer .. . . . . 2
THE LAST PARADISE, by M.G.S 2
“LIFE’S PANORAMA,” by J. A. Gurner, K.C. J
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . . . 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
ECONOMY MUST COME 8
SAVE THE FARMER! 8
FIRST, LET’S BE HONEST WITH OURSELVES 8
A COUNCIL OF NATIONAL SAFETY . . . . 8
JUDGES’ TONGUES AND TEMPERS . . . . 9
INDIA AND THE MOON ..9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 9
POLITICAL POINTS—
(With cartoonlets by Frith) .. . • .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. .. 11, 12
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. .. .. 13
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 14
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 10, 16
AUSTRALIAN PROVINCIAL ASSURANCE .. 1.0
AUSTRALIAN PAPER ..15
BUCKLEY & NUNN ” . . . . . . . . 15
CLIFFORD, LOVE 15
HARRINGTONS . . . . . . . . . . 15
MOUNT LYELL 16
INVESTMENT QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. 16
BUSINESS, ROBBERY', ETC. 17
WOULD A LITTLE INFLATION DO US GOOD ? 17
THE FARMER AND THE TARIFF .. ..17
AND STILL WE MUST GROW MORE WHEAT 17
SUNDRY' SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..18
“POSSESSIONS,” Sydney Criterion . . . . 18
TWO HOURS WITH THE BARDS . . . . IS
THE PALETTE 18
ABORIGINALITIES—
(With drawings by Norman Lindsay and
others) .. . . .. .. 20, 21
SMOKE-OH (with drawings) 22
MAN ON, THE LAND 24, 26
HARROWING 24
BURNING OFF 24
MILK PRESERVATION . . 24
FARMING WEIGHTS AND MEASURES .. 24-
FARM QUESTIONS ANSWERED . . 24, 20
SHADOW SHOWS 27
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 28
COMPLETE STORY—
“MIVNEY,” by Wilfred Blanket, K.C. . . . . 29
VERSE—By J. Holloway, Professor Wall. . 12, 29
SPORTING (illustrated) 31, 33
A.J.C. (WARWICK FARM) 31
EPSOM RACES 31
WEST INDIAN CRICKETERS 31
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER—
(With drawings by Frith) . . .. .. 34
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 36
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 38
NEW SERIAL, “Break o’ Day”—
By John Crisp . . . . . . 40, 41, 42
CHRISTMAS NUMBER, DECEMBER 3.
: : : <—
NEW YEAR NUMBER, DECEMBER 31.
SAVE THE FARMER!
That poor, weak, blind creature, the Fed-
eral Labor Caucus, decided against the only
scheme yet put forward which will give the
Australian farmer a lift without putting too
heavy'a load upon the community. A year
ago, when the farmer’s vote was being
hungrily angled for, members of this
precious Caucus declared that “six bob”
was not a farthing too much for farmers to
get for their wheat. Later on it even pro-
posed that in some mysterious way the
farmer should be paid the “six bob.” Now,
when it is suggested that he shall be paid
about 2s. 9d., the plan is turned down.
So long as they could pick somebody else’s
pocket for it, these alleged Labor men did
not mind how much the farmer got; when a
trifle is to be paid by themselves and their
friends, in the shape of an extra penny a
loaf for bread, the farmer may starve. The
best they can do for him is to think up
some other scheme for getting somebody
else’s money to give him.
Yet the nnlv solid reason for ffivino- the
let the only ..OllU lemon 10l o mn o tile
farmer anything at all beyond wliat he can
get in the world’s market is that he is
handicapped as against his competitors by
lllgll costs OI production. LH-miGIS o\Giy -
where have to buy labor, and when they
sell their wheat they sell also the labor they
, 1 J XT 4.1 ,]
na\6 puichaSGd. flow can tilGy feUCCCGd
when they have to buy labor at a high
rate and sell it at the foreign wage-rate?
And it must be kept in mind that this does
not mean simply farm labor. It is, in fact,
costs off the farm which weigh most heavily
upon the Australian farmer—costs of hand-
ling and rail freight and ship-loading; costs
of machinery and supplies; interest and
other costs. For years past lie has been
treated most unjustly. Basic wages and
other rates of pay have been fixed without
the smallest regard to foreign conditions,
Indeed, we have prided ourselves on the fact
that we had so fixed rates of pay that
our standard of living was the highest in
the world. What we really did was to fix
rates so high for the workers connected with
the Trades Hall that even in ordinary
seasons and with an average market
our farmers were compelled to work 15
hours a day for much less than the basic
wage and live under conditions of utter
discomfort. Now, with much less than an
average market, their income is so reduced
that thousands of them simply cannot carry
on without some of that sheltering which
practically every other Australian worker
has enjoyed.
The Bulletin does not put this forward
as their natural right. It would be far
better if there were no need for a bonus
or subsidy of any sort; there are far too
many of‘these things already. But when
a man is compelled to pay a high price
for what he buys, then obviously he must
either sell at a high price or go out of
business. If for any reason he cannot sell
at a high price, then, in order to keep him
in business, we must either reduce the
price he has to pay or make it up to him
in some other way. Apparently we arc not
prepared to reduce the price he has to pay,
for his railway freight, for instance, as
well as for his farm labor; so, if he is not
to go out of business, we must find some
concession that we can allow him.
It has been suggested, however, that he
ought to go out of business, so far as wheat-
growing, at any rate, is concerned. At the
very moment when the U.S.A. was telling
its farmers to grow less wheat, it has been
■ pointed out as an illustration of our
stupidity that our own authorities were
urging our farmers to grow more. But
there is an enormous difference between us
and the U.S.A. We are a debtor people,
who have most foolishly piled up outside
liabilities which demand an annual payment
of about 30 millions sterling. Also we have
so neglected industries apart from those
connected with the land that we must pay
many more millions a year for indispensable
imports. On the other hand, the U.S.A. is a
creditor nation, owing no other nation
interest, and almost self-contained so far as
both the necessaries and the luxuries of
life are concerned. So when the wheat
market is sick the U.S.A. can afford to tell
its farmers to grow less wheat. We cannot
—unless we can point to something else
which they could grow for export; and we
cannot do that, because there is nothing
else.
The position therefore is that, no matter
what Uncle Sam may do in this matter, we
must go ahead. Our wheat-farmers must be
kept on their land, and they must be en-
couraged to plant next year more than they
did this year. But they certainly will not
next year even repeat this year’s sowing,
unless they get for that part of their pro-
duct which is consumed within Australia a
price in keeping with the high wages of
the rest of the community.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
First, Let’s Be Honest with Ourselves.
“So many thousands have been brought to the
verge of poverty through the banks’ policy of deflating
values (by reducing overdrafts when covered by
solid security) that one cannot wonder at the results
of the N,S.\\ . elections. Under existing conditions,
wealthy institutions and individuals can buy up
deflated securities, whether bonds, shares, land or
cattle, etc., from poor devils forced to sell, thereby
increasing the wealth of those that have, and im-
poverishing a great army of others. With a revised
system of banking giving the producers reasonably
cheap money, they would soon produce enough to
pay off our foreign indebtedness.”—Bulletin cor-
respondent.
1 his outburst opens up one of our largest
and most pressing problems. Even this cor-
respondent, writing from Queensland, sees
less than half of it. In all the wheat-growing
States there are very many farmers who
have been carried on by the storekeepers.
Now, when most of these storekeepers have
reached the end of their resources, they are
faced with the fact that thousands of their
farmer-customers will be unable to pay
anything off their bills, the Rural Bank
or other institutions having a lien on their
crops. Nor will they have anything on
which to live while they grow another crop.
The first thing to be done is to discover
some plan for carrying these men along.
They must be kept on the land: more than
that, others must be encouraged to join
them. In a joint increase of production
and a further decrease of buying outside
Australia lies our only hope.
Mere flogging the banks is as useless as it
is popular. They cannot lend what they
have not got; and they have no hope of
getting more to lend while Governments are
paying 6 per cent, per annum for a two-
year deposit. Further than that, they must
not only prop up the current loan and
make a success of it, but they must get
themselves in a position to do the same
for next year’s heavy loans; and meantime
they have to see that the Commonwealth
does not default in London. Of course
banks have been hard on clients. Of course
they have called in overdrafts und advances.
In the circumstances what else could they
be, what else could they do? The curses
and the kicks, though, are due not to them
but to the politicians, whom they repeatedly
warned during the past dozen years.
However, the position will not be saved
by merely apportioning the blame for it.
First of all, what the position calls for is
sincerity. We are not being honest with
ourselves; we are dodging the facts—crying
in the wilderness that there is no trouble
to make a fuss about. So it comes about
that, when the Federal Government does
something which circumstances have forced
upon it, it proceeds furtively—as it is doing
in connection with the dismissals from the
Public Service, for example. And when Mr.
Lang discovers that his Treasury is empty
and that he is utterly unable to carry out
his promises, there is no frank confession
of it: instead, there is evasion and bluff.
So the widespread belief is maintained that
there is no real crisis, but that the whole
thing is a put-up job. Niemeyer’s visit and
report ought to have settled that; but the
wretched party politicians intervened, and
the public mind was left in a haze of
uncertainty.
Are there not in all Australia five or six
unimpeachable non-party men, accountants
and economists, whom the Labor party can
trust to make a swift survey and set out
plainly the position? They should not be
asked to suggest remedies: that is not for
them. The first thing to be done is to
ascertain the facts beyond all question, and
that they could do. Until it is done and we
can agree as to the disease, what hope is
there of helping Time to make a cure?
♦
A Council of National Safety.
Thus far our greatest curse in the process
of readjustment, as it was in the original
process of inflation, is party government’
Especially in the larger States and in the
Federation we have in office not merely
party governments indeed, but violently
class governments which are looking at
matters entirely in their own one-eyed ways.
There is little hope for us until this is
altered; for, instead of producing a cheer-
ful acceptance of facts and a willing deter-
mination to make the best of a situation
for which we are all to blame, there is a
gloomy feeling of both depression and
oppression, an utter lack of national co-
hesion and co-operation, and a widespread
feeling of uncertainty if not of impending
calamity.
This job is too big and far too serious
for any party government, no matter what
its color may be. It is too big and serious
and complicated even for the politicians of
all parties. The occasion calls aloud
for a Council of All the Talents—not merely
of the politicians but of the economists;
not merely of the talkers but of the. think-
ers. With such a body in every State, and
another at Canberra—if that shamefully
expensive wart must be maintained—we
might hope for a steady escape from our
difficulties, a gradual solution of our over-
whelming problems. Tackling them as we
are doing we shall only get deeper into
trouble. Certainly nobody can show that
either the Commonwealth or the larger
States —N. S. Wales in particular—have
made the least real progress in the 12
months that have passed since our house
of cards began to fall around us. And,
as the cables show us, ■ nobody sees that
more clearly than our London creditors.


Judges’ Tongues and Tempers.
Giving judgment in a disputed will case in
Sydney, Justice Davidson declared that a
report made by Dr. Chisholm Ross on the
testator's mental condition was of such a
character as to stamp him as “a menace to
the public and a disgrace to his profession.”
Dr. Ross, being the oldest specialist in
mental diseases in N. S. Wales and the
most widely known in Australia, did the
only thing he could do in the circumstances:
he asked that the Medical Board of the
State should try him. To that end a charge
was laid—that he had been guilty of in-
famous conduct in giving a grossly unreli-
able medical report, that he was a disgrace
to the profession and a menace to the public,
and that his name should be removed from
the medical register. After a careful hear-
ing the board last week reported that it
did not find the charge sustained, and did
not remove Dr. Ross’s name from the regis-
ter.
In comic opera a body of his Honor’s
fellow-judges would now try Justice David-
son on a charge of infamous 1 conduct in
giving a grossly unreliable certificate; and
on the strength of that one certificate, alleg-
edly unreliable, his Honor would be further
charged with being a menace to the public
and a disgrace to his profession. But life,
being so much less logical than comic opera,
will no doubt decide that his Honor shall
remain undisturbed on his Olympian heights.
If, however, it should ever be the duty
of a jury of his brethren, sitting as a Full
Court, to try him, and to find him guilty
of a wrong judgment, we shall certainly be
disappointed if we expect more from their
Honors than a mild statement to the effect
that they begged to differ from their learned
brother—with costs against the party who
had been so unfortunate as to be agreed
with by him.
Meantime all that can be done—and it
ought to be done—is to tell Judges that
some of them talk far too much. Their
Honors are chosen, or are supposed to be
chosen, not for their encyclopaedic know-
ledge, but for their specialist knowledge of
the law and for their commonsense and poise.
Their appointment to the Bench not only
gives them no right to set up as authorities
on all subjects under the sun, still less does
it require them to give judgments upon all
things. Happily there is no authority over
the Judges; and it is of the highest import-
ance that there “should be none—other, of
course, than Parliament itself; and the
authority of Parliament is greatly restricted.
Superior Courts will pass upon his Honor’s
law and set him right where they believe
he is wrong; but very rarely indeed is it
possible, as it was in Dr. Ross’s case, to
check anything he does or says outside the
actual judgment. So a very great responsi-
bility rests with the Judge himself. Upon
all matters not covered by the judgment
itself and the rulings strictly bearing upon
it, he must be his own court of appeal.
It was perhaps never so important as it
is to-day that the authority of the Courts
should be unquestioned. They are the indi-
vidual’s last refuge. Party and class rend
the community; and there is no longer any
respect for those who are set in the highest
places to which politics can carry a man.
A Prime Minister is buffeted and called a
liar and a cheat without any regard for
either his office or his feelings. Only the
Judges have thus far kept themselves so
apart from popular contentions that the
respect for the institution for which they
stand remains almost unimpaired. Maybe in
their modesty some of them do not quite
realise how much depends upon them—upon
their wisdom, their discretion, their reti-
cence. The incident in which Justice David-
son has figured so unhappily will, it is hoped,
lead them to seriously reflect upon it.
O
India and the Moon.
The Round Table Conference between
British and Indian representatives in Lon-
don is full of interest for the rest of the
Empire, postulating the entry of a fifth
self-governing Dominion to the Imperial
association. The conference is far from
representative of the vast and varied popu-
lation of India. There are, however, three
groups voicing the aspirations of the com-
parative few who have ever heard of the
conference or its aims. The first and most
important in all respects is made up of
the Indian Princes, so called, the rulers of
the great native States who are practically
independent sovereigns, with the British
ruler’s hands ever more. or less gently on
the reins, along with minor potentates who
are actually under British rule. The other
groups may be divided into the Hindu and
Moslem elements outside the native States,
and direct subjects of Britain.
Thus early in the conference it is apparent
that the powerful Native Princes’ group has
declared for the maintenance of British
control of India, with a say in the control
of affairs much greater than it has already
enjoyed. There is little new in this; it has
been their united policy for many years. In
other sections of Indian life, Moslem and
Hindu have kept each other at the knife’s
point save for rare and fleeting rapproche-
ments. So far as representatives of the
Moslem-Hindu sections have made them-
selves understood at the conference, the old
division has not been closed. The Indian
Moslem, in a hated minority, recognises that
his only salvation is in the shadow of the
British overlord. Against him ranks the
even-vocative Babu element, which is
accepted by the outside world as voicing
India’s real aspirations. The Babu “log”
have certainly showed a sweet reasonable-
ness so far. If Britain surrenders the huge
mass of India to their tender mercies—they
call it “Dominion status” and give complete
independence as their alternative —she will
be permitted to maintain the present stand-
ing army of white troops on the Indian
establishment until such time as an Indian
army controlled by Indian officers shall
be ready to take over from them. Then
the British troops are to be withdrawn —
the Indian Civil Service having . long
before been ridded of its British parasites
—just as the redcoats withdrew from N. S.
Wales when that colony became self govern-
ing.
The analogy ends there. N. S. Wales,
left defenceless, has had no enemies save
those of her own household. India has
been raided by sturdier races since the
dawn of history, and will be again as soon
as she is left to her own resources. In
no case has the spineless Hindu type, of
which the Babu is the outstanding exemplar,
ever attempted to stand up to the invader,
though with the fighting races of India, the
greater proportion of which come from the
native States of Rajputana, the story has
been a different one. But it is the Babu
and not the Rajput—the Babu who has the
contempt of the rest of India as a fighting
man—who desires to become the creator
of a new Indian army.
The attitude of the Babu “log,” in direct
opposition as it is to that of the leaders
of the great feudal states, forecasts the
inevitable collapse of the conference. In
theory, India’s claim to Dominion status
is plausible. In fact, anything of the sort
is impossible. There is no such thing as an
Indian nation, only an indescribable con-
glomerate of a thousand differing races
speaking twice that number of languages,
and professing Heaven knows how many
various religious faiths. Australia is practi-
cally homogeneous in race, while Canada,
the South African Union and Ireland harbor
only two different peoples apiece, all having
attained a high degree of development and
social culture. The claim of hotch-potch
India, with its tiny sprinkling of intelli-
gentsia, and that mostly half-baked, to rank
with these Dominions is very absurd.
Queensland’s Peaceful
Conquest.
The annual report of Queens-
land’s Prickly-pear Land Com-
mission makes refreshing reading
for the times. It shows what
Australians can do in an emer-
gency when they have a defi-
nite objective and are undivided
by party. When the commission
entered upon its task pear
was spreading at the rate of
830,000 acres per annum. It
had attacked or was threatening
an area larger than that of Great
Britain. Even now, after six
years, it is estimated that 21
million acres of Queensland is
pear-stricken. But, except for the
mopping-up operations, the long
battle has been decided; the pest
has now been successfully con-
trolled, and each year will wit-
ness a substantial decrease in the
area subject to infestation.
The .cactoblastis grub has been
the principal destroying agent.
The original experiments with it
were made by the Common-
wealth Prickly-pear Board in
1926, and it increases and multi-
plies so rapidly, and there have
been so many distributions of
eggs by the commission, that
before long “colonies of these
efficient insects will be thriving
on every acre of prickly-pear in
the State.” Once thoroughly
established, cactoblastis kills the
pear, being aided in the good
work by “a bacterial soft rot and
various fungous rots.” It has
parasitical enemies, but has so
far withstood their onslaughts.
The cochineal insect is a useful
auxiliary, and so is poison, especi-
ally arsenic pentoxide—now
made in a factory at Tenter-
field (N.S.W.).
Naturally the commission
makes every effort to get settlers
in the pear belt. At the end of
June 322 blocks were available
for selection under various ten-
ures, and redeemed areas are
being thrown open on easy terms.
Some of these redeemed areas
might very well be reserved for
farm-labor settlements on the
plan already suggested in The
Bulletin.
A
Tasmania’s Practical Relief
Measures.
Little Tasmania has tackled its
unemployed problem in its usual
practical way. Two pieces of
legislation, the Unemployed
(Assistance to Primary Pro-
ducers) Relief Act and the Un-
employment Relief Act, provide
cheap loan money and free
grants under certain conditions
to primary producers prepared
to find work for registered unemployed,
Such work must take the form of per-
manent improvements to the applicant’s
properties. If the farmer has no available
cash of his own he strops his pencil and
applies to the State Agricultural Bank for
a loan under the first-mentioned Act.
This being approved, the bank takes such
security as is practicable, allowing Dad
or Dave to repay the advance by instal-
me:Ts over a period of years plus interest
on the unpaid balance at 2J per cent. With
the exception of a small allowance for neces-
sary plant, the loan must be used entirely
for wages. If, however, our cockie friend
has money of his own to put into improve-
ments, he asks for a subsidy under the Un-
employment Relief Act, and, all things
being favorable, receives £1 as a free grant
for every £3 he spends in wages for per-
1 anent improvements; the maximum grant
being £5O.
By these means work has been made
available for one-third of the unemployed
of the State for varying periods on a sur-
prisingly small outlay. And with equal cer-
tainty one may say that it will bnng in-
creased production to help in restoring our
trade balance.
—r ♦
An Alternative to Sand-shifting.
Most of the threepence in the pound which
n , t \i s Wni oa frnm
the Government of N. S. Wales takes horn
all wages, salaries and dividends to provide
for unemployment relief has hitherto been
devoted to sand-shifting and equally pur-
poseless jobs. The Primary Producers’
Union of the State has now joined in the
demand for something saner. In the dairy-
ing districts of N. S. Wales, particularly
those of the North Coast, there are hundreds
rclji • -i v _
of farmers hard-working chaps, who get up
at 3 a.m. to milk the cows and between
milkings put m the time felling oi ling-
barking trees to increase the pasturage area
of their bush holdings. These cow-eockies
are visited by officers of the Agricultural
Department, who test their cows and their
cows’ milk and give them sage advice as to
the culling of herds and the improvement of
butter-fat production. That is quite right,
Maoriland built up its extremely profitable
dairy industry iby a
surveillance. But in the Shivery Isles tney
paved the way by first instituting a system
of low-interest, long-term loans to farmers,
repayable on the T.P. plan,
j n g Wales the cart has been put
before the horse. A settler on land worth,
ga y ; £1 per acre> can increase its value ten-
or twelve-fold by clearing it and getting
it ready for pasture. But he can’t borrqw on
potential value. The Rural Bank will
advance him money only on what has been
accom pli s hed. So the cocky and his family
c j ear 20 or 30 acres and then go to the bank
foi . a j oan The bank sends its inspector
ouk . b e certifies that the land has been
cleared—and the £2OO or £3OO advanced goes
bu y a mo tor-car. The Lord alone knows
j low man y m otor-cars the Rural Bank has
bought for N. S. Wales dairy-farmers.
one Qf the results of that policy has been
that the work of clearing the sections has
not proceec ied quite as rapidly as it might
b ave under a more sensible system, and the
gtate hag ba d to stand the losses of many of
gett i ers The P.P.U.’s own special sug-
tion ig that unemployment-relief money
bo advanced to dairy-farmers at 2i
pei . C ent., repayable in instalments that
would make the annual repayment not
more than 5 per cent, on capital; the
advances to be granted on the strict condi-
tion that they are used only h-ir land-
Gearing purposes. It is anticipated that the
ayerag £ ocky would take about £2OO on
thoge termSj and WO uld clear 60 acres. On
the security of that improved acreage he
could borrow enough to improve his herd
on the lines laid down by the inspectors,
and if the Rural Bank pegged him down to
that purpose he would carry it out.
A good feature of the scheme is that it
would return
men who nocked to ovdney in. recent yeais,
fay brighf lightg and the prosp ect of
bigk wageg . Many of these youngsters are
nQW disillusioned and would be glad to get
back to the coun try. There are close on a
mdbon acres Q f j and i n the State that could,
w ith advantage to everybody, be cleared
r jg b t away in the dairying districts, and
the investment of unemployment-relief
funds in this direction seems to be about
the most sensible use to which the money
could be put.
THE PROPHETS OF BAAL.
“And they called on the name of Baal from morning even until noon, saying ‘O Baal,
hear us.’ But there was no voice nor any that answered. And they leaped upon the altar
which was made.”—1 Kings xviii, 26.
CHORUS OF PRIESTS (unemployed and others): “Here, shake it up, Jack, and get
busy with the fire from Heaven! What are we waiting for?”


m
The Australian Provincial
Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1913.
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman),
Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING,
Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon J. A. BOYD, J. R. KIRK,
Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
TOTAL ASSETS EXCEED £2,500,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.
fl) Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders. (2) In the event of total disablement for life all future
premiums will be paid by the Association, and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. (3)
Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and private hospitals,
varying in amount according to the sum assured and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(1) 111 the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be
paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately. (5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT, all sick-
ness and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
A T O EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES.
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. 11l DEN. Secretary. GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
SUMMER IS ALWAYS SPRING
lllllilllll lIIIIIIIIIIHIU IlllllllllllllllllilliW
at
Mt. Buffalo, National Park, Victoria.
Throughout the summer months the cool mountain air is scented
with the sweet breath of spring. Last summer’s maximum tempera-
ture was only 78.
Pleasant, easy walks to vantage points commanding wonderful
panoramic views, boating, fishing and swimming in placid Lake
Catani, and the service and appointments of the renowned Chalet
make Mt. Buffalo the ideal summer resort.
Inquire at the
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
Martin Place, Sydney; or Queen’s Walk, Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Melbourne “Age” supported Federal Labor
at the general election 13 months ago, and
has been scolding it ever since. In a belated
attempt to mix praise Avitli blame, the paper
protests that "the Cabinet is sound at the
core,” though it has “several unattractive
spots”; “if on the surface it appears pulpy,
at heart it is sound.” Anyhow, it gives
Australia the pip.
An early result of the Great Victory in
N. S. Wales was a strike of slaughtermen,
led by a defeated Labor candidate. The
steady-going element having been overborne
by hotheads and boys, the union decided to
anticipate the restoration of the 44-liour
week and piecework rates based on it. At
first the master butchers looked like giving
way, but they rallied when asked to sign'
terms of capitulation—Avith which “Good ole.
Piddo,” of the Industrial Commission, was
associated as mediator —their answer being
that if Parliament chose to damage the in-
dustry they wouldn’t, and that they were
so sick of the union’s selfishness, bullying
“GOOD OLE PIDDO”: “Revenons a nos mou-
tons. That is to say, let us return to
our sheep.”
HARDY TOILER: “Right you are, mister, but
we gotter have the forty-four hour
week.”
and bad faith that they would insist on its
backing future agreements with financial
guarantees. The strike has had one effect
aimed at —-it has held up the export of
mutton and fat lambs; but although this is
a serious matter for the graziers and N. S.
Wales, Mr. Badly, the Minister of Labor
and Industry, hasn’t interfered. Mr. Badly
is perhaps too thick in the head and the
bide to care.
Just on 12 months ago Federal Labor shut
down on assisted immigration, and many a
time since it has wished it hadn’t. Not that
it cares two straws for assisted immigra-
tion, but by asking to be relieved of its obli-
gation to provide passages at reduced rates
it gave the British Government the right to
cut off supplies of cheap migration-agree-
ment money, and less than a fifth of the
£34,000,000 arranged for had been spent
Avhen it pulled out. Ramsay MacDonald
and co. agreed to subsidise incomplete works
of. which both Governments had approved,
bringing the total advanced, or to be
advanced, to nine millions ; it also offered to
consider the financing of “schemes for inten-
sive deA’elopment,” but laid down condi-
tions, one being that the Development and
Migration Commission must recommend
them. And then the Scullidores went and
sacked the Development and Migration Com-
mission !
The suspension of the migration agree-
ment lias left Westralia’s 3500-farms scheme
in the air, and the State is naturally sore.
Still, it is reckoned to have got just on five
millions of the migration-agreement money.
Queensland’s share was only £2OOO actually
spent and £28,000 promised.
There is still a lot of make-believe about
Australian Government finance. South Aus-
tralia was charged half a million in Federal
Customs duties on the rolling-stock it im-
ported for its unlucky railway rehabilitation
scheme. The half-million, though debited
to State loan account, figured as Common-
Avealth revenue, and S. Aus. got its share
under the old 255. per head arrangement.
Noav the Commonwealth is imposing sales
tax (to the extent, it is estimated, of
£lOO,OOO in a twelvemonth) on purchases
for S. Aus. Government departments and
institutions, even while S. Au.s. is receiving
a special Commonwealth grant and conces-
sions from other States to enable it to pay
wages and salaries. The State Labor Gov-
ernment threatens to make another High
Court matter of it, and the Queensland Coun-
try-National Government offers to share
the costs.
Last week brought along more taxation,
and threats of still more. The Vic. Hogan
Government has “amended” its income tax
twice in respect of 1929-30 assessments, and
there have been two Federal “amendments”
in respect of the same income,
the latest including the addi-
tion of Is. 6d. in the £ of pro-
perty earnings. Victorians in
receipt of £312 and upwards
in 1929-30 have also been
called upon to pay from 10s. to
£1 6s. in the £lOO gross under
Hogan’s Unemployed Relief
Bill. This impost, Parlia-
ment permitting, is now to be
increased to £1 ss. in the £lOO
on £312, rising to £4 10s. in
the £lOO on £3OOO. It is ex-
pected to take £1,310,000 from
incomes for the full year (an-
other £590.000 is to come
from the stamp tax on wages,
which goes up from Id. to
4d. in the £, up to £6, and from
which, incidentally, the pam-
pered Federal public servant
is exempt), and it will, of
course, still further reduce the
capacity of wage-payers—par-
ticularly pastoralists and
farmers who have been hit by
the tumble in wool and wheat
prices—to employ men and
carry on.
N.S.W. Premier Lang has
been strangely silent since the
Great Victory. It is supposed
that he has devoted a month
to deep thought; anyway,
his only reported utterance during the
month was an angry assertion that
Bavin, his predecessor, had left him a
deficit of 15 millions or thereabouts —the
Auditor-General says that the deficiency for
the year to June 30 was £1,379,200. and that
uncollected income tax amounted to
£1,514.500. although only portion of the rail-
way deficit has been included. However,
kite after kite is going up from Macquarie-
street. One day it is suggested that the
unemployment-relief tax may start at Is. in
the £: the next, that Lang’s Government
may exact a forced loan. A forced loan,
if attempted, will mean whips more work
for the lawyers who thrive on the raising of
constitutional points. And it will destroy
whatever chance the plague of income taxes
has left of getting new industries started by
people from overseas.
A Nationalist (Lud Mayor Luxton) suc-
ceeds a Liberal (the late Colonel Forrest!
as M.L.A. for Caulfield. J. A. Murray stood
as a Lib. expecting to get the Labor vote,
which used to go to Forrest; if he got it the
Labor vote has slumped, for Murray came
fourth in a field of six. Colonel Savige, also
a Nationalist, was a good second to Luxton,
and the result ought to convince even die-
hard pre-selectionists that “an open go’’
makes for increased interest and a stronger
party vote.
MINISTER BADLY (to unemployed ): “Don’t
you take any notice of Bavin saying
we won’t get the money to carry out
our policy. WON'T we get the money!
Why, we haven’t taxed windows yet.”
The Government of Fiji is introducing a
bill designed “to punish seditious acts and
seditious libels, and suppress newspapers
containing seditious matter.” It is a move
against Hindu agitators. avlio worked up
serious riots some' years ago, and Avho are
among the blessings that folloAv in the train
of “cheap” labor from India.
In June this year the liquidators of Bawra
held £363.250 against disputed income-tax
assessments. State and Federal. The pas-
toralists are sure of one dividend at least,
for a Victorian claim for £80,542 has been
decided against the department with thump-
ing costs. Beaten in the State Full Court,
the department carried the case to the Privy
Council. A Federal claim for £200,000-odd.
which was held up during the Privy Council
proceedings, will now go to the High Court
by Avay of appeal from a Vic. Supreme Court
judgment in favor of Bawra. A return
NO PRIVATE FIGHT—ANNYBODY CAN JINE IN.
“Mr. Hogan, the State Labor Premier (Vie.), has dashed into
the Federal Labor hullabaloo. ‘I am disgusted to find you would
stab Scullin in the back,’ he wired to McGrath, M.H.R. ‘I
resent your insulting telegram,’ was the reply; ‘I would not for a
moment place you in the same class as Scullin.’”
showing the number of income-tax appeal
cases the bureaucracy has lost during the
last five years, and the amount of the illegal
assessments and costs, would be interesting,
if not staggering.
Writing in “S. M. Herald” of the change
that has come‘over “the movement.” Mrs.
Adela Pankhurst Walsh acidly remarks that
at the N.S.W. State election “the whole
resources of Labor were mobilised in the
interests of Government servants with high
incomes, short hours, superannuation and
holiday allowances, who objected to losing
any of their emoluments or privileges when
100,000 members of the working class were
out of employment.” True, and after the
Great Victory, one of the public-service organ-
isations headed the rush for the spoils. Bung
is now. demanding his cut—bar-closing at
9 p.m. instead of 6 p.m.; and several Labor
politicians have publicly, assured him that
he shall have. it. The tin-hare people also
expect something to be done for them ; pre-
sumably they, too, contributed to the bulging
party war-chest.
Convinced that State agencies alone cannot
cope with unemployment Premier H'oaran has
sought the co-operation of all sections of
the community by holding a conference. State
departments that let work, manufacturers,
business men, agriculturists, churches, philan-
thropic bodies, municipalities, neAvspaper pro-
prietors, the Trades Hall, the Employers'
Federation, and members of all Parliamentary
parties Avere invited to send representatives.
If there is wisdom, as well as safetv. in a
multitude of counsellors Victoria can do
Avith as much of it as can be skimmed.
The Labor section of Brisbane City Coun-
cil. supported by a recruit from the othei
side, refused to accept a 10 per cent, reduc-
tion of its salary. In the Government bill
amending the constitution of the corpora-
tion, there is a provision for fixing Bumble's
screw at £3OO p.a.—25 p.c. off. The council
is to be reduced from 21 to 20 to admit of
the election of the mayor by the aldermen —
hitherto the.citizens have chosen the aspirant
to the rabbitskin —and an occupier qualifica-
tion will replace the adult franchise. Brisbane
would bear with fortitude the loss of the
alderman’s £lOO, but it is not taking kindly
to the other changes proposed, and the bill
will have a rough passage.
The Vic. Railway Standing Committee has
nothing to do, and there is no money for
raiLvay Avorks if it recommended any, so
the suspension of meetings for a year or
two has. been suggested. If they aren’t sus-
pended it will be a fraud on the taxpayers.
Two Uppish House and four Assembly mem-
bers of the committee dyaw £l5OO a year alto-
gether in fees —in addition, of course, to
their Parliamentary screws.
Commissioner Cleary said the, other day
that 5000 raihvay men had been kept on in
N. S. Wales, thanks to the sacrifices made
for them by their mates. Federal Labor, on
the other hand, is sacking men wholesale
because it won't ask their mates to make
sacrifices for them and it can’t find pay for
all on the pre-slump scale. Since June 302292
men have been dismissed from the Post-
master-General’s Department, 1429 of them
returned soldiers, and 775 from Works and
Railways, 332 of them returned soldiers.
With even a 21 per cent, cut in permanent-
staff salaries they could all be given some
work, and so could thousands of other so-
called temporary hands (many have had up-
wards of 10 years’ service) ; but Caucus
Avon't sanction salary cuts, except in the
case of officers getting more than £725 p.a.
(441 out of 25,585, the fighting services
excepted) because they are “contrary to
Labor principles.” And “Labor principles”
(or votes) must be preserved even if Dig-
gers starve.
The Miners’ Union at Wonthaggi (Vic.)
has done many things to heap ridicule on
Ihe socialistic enterprise in which its mem-
bers earn their bread and butter, hut it put
on a special .suit of cap and bells when
members of the Hogan Ministry came along
to celebrate the field’s attainment of its
majority. Being annoyed with the Hogans
for their attitude towards an aAvard, the
committee refused to sit at dinner with them
or allow the union band to pour celestial
harmonies over the. proceedings.
When its solidity Avas tested for the first
time in Vic. Assembly, the “United” Coun-
try party split. Its leader, Allan, supported
Macfarlan’s protest against the Hogans’ veto
on the State. Railway Commissioners joining
with others in testing the validity of Federal
Arbitration Court awards. Not only did the
Ministry restrain Clapp and co. by order-in -
council from going on ; it instructed counsel
to urge in the High Court that the wages
and Avorking hours or its own railway em-
ployees should be fixed by Federal Judges.
Macfarlan pushed the issue to a vote, but
only five Cockies Avent with the Nats., seven
supporting Hogan, who won by 14. Had
the party been really “united,” the voting
would have been even, and then there Avould
have been a poser for the wigged Peacock.
A reclamation scheme which may be put
in hand in South Aus. is the alteration
of the Patawalonga mouth at Glenelg.
The stream runs behind sandhills and
then turns sharp to the sea. It attracted
Captain Hindmarsh to land there in 1836.
but is now an untidy channel cutting in half
a large town. The idea is to run it off
through the sandhills some distance higher
up, and then fill in and level off the many
acres of residential land now useless. No
doubt such an undertaking would be a god-
send for the local unemployed, but Glenelg
may be dubious about its efficacy when it
remembers (1) its duplicate railway, iioav
not used at all; (2) its floodgates that were
to make the Patawalonga a lake, but silted
up and washed away instead; and (3) its
breakwater that was stopped when half
done and beeame a mere encumbrance.
“The N.S.W. Labor Government has decided to
conduct a lottery. The Tasmanian and Queensland
Governments are already interested in lotteries, Other
State Governments are reported to be considering
their position.”
CHORUS OF EMBRARRASSED PREMIERS: “Who’ll
have the lucky last?”
Half-yearly or even quarterly payment of
income tax is being agitated for in Melb.
Besides eonveniencing, taxpayers it would be
handy for' the State Treasury to have till
money instead of having to go so often to
the banks. As an act of grace the Taxation
Commissioner may now allow instalments to
be taken, but advocates of two or four con-
tributions a year Avant, the reform made a
right. State officials raised all sorts of
difficulties about changing payment of
salaries from once a month to every two
weeks. They wouldn’t uoav dare to suggest
reversion to the monthly method.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INK"
“Old Lag”: Some time ago the finest feel-
ings of a number of my Sydney friends were
outraged by the decision of the police autho-
rities to erect “call boxes” at intervals in
certain sections of the city where a concerted
attack on policemen arresting a suspect is
a recognised diversion. The edifices, which
resemble nothing so much as Somme pill-
boxes, contain, in addition to a telephone,; a
convenient if cramped cell wherein the lum-
bered one may be locked to prevent the
howling mob from rescuing him and stoush-
ing, his: persecutor. The next proceeding is
to ring up headquarters, when a patrol-van
collects the captive. I am glad to announce
that several members of Parliament and at
least : one city alderman have : protested
against the degrading innovation. It is not
the locking-up that hurts so much as the
ignominy of being posted, so to speak, like
a parcel “to be called for.”
Si! ■ . * * *
“Strict Veg.”: There is no end to the
activities which some people would impose
on Ministers of the Crown. Vic. Chief Secre-
tary Tunnecliffe was lately asked if he
couldn’t do something to discourage “tap”
dancing. Tunnecliffe bluntly replied that he
didn’t see why the Legislature should inter
AS ONE SEWS, SO ONE RIPS.
“My poor husband is always losing the buttons off his clothing.”
“Perhaps he’s rough with his things."
“No, I don’t think he is really. You know, I don’t think he uses strong enough
cotton when he puts them on."
vene in a custom that must prove to be a
boon to elderly gentlemen who have difficulty
in finding partners, and that should also,
since the displaced young . man must look
elsewhere for a girl, decrease the number of
wallflowers. He added something to the
effect that the police already have as much
.sumptuary power as is good for them.
“Adelaide”: The foolish 13 superstition
has received what might almost be called
judicial countenance in S. Aus. A woman
defendant objected to a week’s adjournment
from Nov. 6, solely on that ground; and
the considerate P.M. made it the 12th
instead.
* * * *
“Sinnik”: I honor Jack Hobbs for refus-
ing to play cricket in India on Sunday, but
I would have been even more impressed if
lie hadn’t been a pro. Cricket is work to
him, and the basest recoil from doing week-
day jobs on Sundays. The real motives be-
hind these edifying demonstrations are often
anything but righteous. I rented a grouse
moor in Skye once which had a lake with a
boat on it. A friend and I caught a few
brown trout one Sunday morning, and found
the boat smashed to pieces a day or so
later. This was the natives’ way of rebuk-
ing us for Sabbath-breaking. They were not
a moral lot themselves, and most of the men
spent Sunday getting owlislily tight. But
their point of view was that Southrons had
no right to break the social customs of Scot-
land.
* # * *
“Tee Essbie”; Armistice Day has re-
minded me that before the war
the Germans had n superstitious
regard for the number 11. They
reckoned it the lucky number,
just as so many English-speaking
folk hold 13 the unlucky one.
Nineteen years ago in Berlin the
postal staff was nearly driven to
its wits’ end by the gigantic mail
which resulted from people post-
ing to themselves letters, hoping
to receive the same postmarked
“Berlin, 11 a.m. 11/11/1911.” I
don’t know whether the number
lost favor when, at eleven o’clock
on the eleventh day of the
eleventh month of 1918, the Armistice was
signed.
❖ * H* *
“Ralph Reckless”; Two super-craftsmen
among criminals are Joseph Schmidt and
John Hilton, who last week tore a strip
of metal (with their bare hands) from a
cell cistern in a Sydney lock-up, fashioned it
into a screwdriver with the aid of the cell
wall, and forced up boards in the floor of a
“Black Maria” so that they could drop
through to freedom. One of them has since
been recaptured. Long Bay once housed a man
who put his two hands on the steel of the door
where the aperture for the warder’s observa-
tion gave him a chance, and proceeded to tear
the steel just as if it was a sheet of card-
board. He had actually made a consider-
able rent before he was discovered at the job.
* * *
“Bumpk”: They used to say that the
Cutty Sark flew like a bird. Well, she
will soon be winging her way across Bass
Strait, for this is the romantic name chosen
for the new amphibian to be placed on the
Melbourne-Launceston run by the end of the
present month. With the assistance of the
Speck Aero Club, the Matthews Aviation Co.
lias completed arrangements for the service,
and a staff has left for Launceston. The
Melbourne station will be at Essendon, and
the ’plane, which is the latest of its kind,
can carry a pilot and three passengers.
*** . *
“Bauwa”: Light has been thrown on a
long-forgotten bit of Papuan history by the
publication in London of an old Spanish
manuscript by the Hakluyt Society. It deals
with the voyage of Quiros through Torres
Strait, and it is thought that the author
was Prado, one of the junior commanders.
The story tells of the voyage along the
south-west coast of Papua, and a landing
made at what was probably Yule Island.
Here the voyagers were attacked by the
“Indians,” whom they routed and pursued,
capturing a number. From the prisoners 14
boys and girls about 10 years old were
selected and taken to Manilla, where they
were placed in a convent and baptised as
Christians. It would be interesting to know
what became of these unhappy exiles. This
inhuman form of kidnapping was common
enough in these days. Raleigh himself
brought several Indians back with him from
his Virginia voyages.
“Shell”: A sign of the times is the quan-
tity of hoarded currency that is finding its
way from the tobacco-tin up the chimney
to the much - abused
banks. At the institu-
tion in which I dust the
sovereigns, last week
alone brought forth two
old banknotes of pre-
Commonwealtli vintage,
three crowns and a four-
shilling piece.
A CHECK ON THE DAYS.
“You’re late again, Jacqueline. Why don’t you carry a watch?"
“I always break them, Alphonse, my dear."
“Well,'at any rate, you might carry an almanac."
“Adelaide”: An Adelaide Court has had
to consider an addition to the language. A
lady named Dorothea, charged with refus-
ing to move on when requested by a con-
stable,” complained that she hadn t been
requested; “what he said was ‘I ly your
kite, Dolly.’ ” But she admitted having had
“some conversation” with the officer, and
having lost her temper, and the Court told
her to move on after paying £1 and costs.
* * * *
“2nd Divvy”; A few years ago if I had
been judge in an Incredible Prophecy com-
petition and an entrant had predicted that
Sydney would eventually be more beggar-
infested than Naples I would have handed
him the prize on the spot. Yet the miracle
has come to pass. I spent a fortnight m
Naples in 1928, never saw a beggar, and
didn’t strike a single cadger. In Sydney
last week I noticed three straight-
out mendicants operating be-
tween the Union and Australian
clubs during the lunch hour, and
four of the camouflaged variety
playing fiddles, selling matches,
etc., in the Darlinghurst sector
the same evening. My _ percep-
tions were .no doubt heightened
by the fact that several alleged
oid friends,, whose faces I didn’t
remember, had tried to get money
out of me the same day. Sydney
is now definitely worse in this
respect than I ever remember
London to have been, and that
is saying a lot. London has
always gone in for free trade in
beggars, and so, of course, . did
Naples and other Italian cities
until Mussolini took charge. But
Naples always had far more beg-
gars than London, just as Mes-
sina always had more than
Naples. I have a theory that,
given the other necessary condi-
tions, climate has most to do with
mendicancy, and that if Sydney
doesn’t discourage its beggars
promptly they will over-run the
city as the weather and the de-
pression warm up.
‘‘Whitehall”; “Snobbery on the part of
certain of the Great Public Schools against
Sydney High is pronounced,” says a Sydney
daily, and there is a lot of truth in it. The
marvel is that the interested parties are
able to keep tbe spirit alive. We imported
it from England, where it is an inevitable
part of the social system. But in England
you can tell the type of school a boy is at
immediately you meet him. A Public School
boy differs in voice, clothes and manners
from a Grammar School boy, and a State
or Board School boy differs from both. It
is even possible to tell one type of Public
School boy from another; I would engage,
for example, to distinguish between an
Etonian and, say, a Carthusian in a very
short time. In Sydney not only are the
boys of the G. P. Schools indistinguishable
as such, but it is impossible, as a rule, to
tell the average Public School boy from the
average State School boy. I will defy any-
body to listen to half a dozen Sydney boys
talking and say afterwards which are at
Sydney Grammar, for example, and which
at Fort-street. Snobberies in the Old World
are based on class distinctions, and class dis-
ductions are indicated by accents. Here
members of all classes^ —Judges and Judges
servants, merchants and shophands; aic
liable to have the same accents. The only
understandable kind of school snobbery m
Australia is an intra-school variety based
on money. They have that sort in a virulent
form in America, and also, 'of course, in
England ; in fact, it is inseparable from any
wealth-worshipping community. -
“Pawang” : Another setback to diphtheria
prophylaxis, the system of prevention to
which most Australian health departments
are pledged, is reported from Colombia,
South America, where the police had to
protect doctors from the fury of citizens en-
raged by the death of 19 children and the ill-
ness of 30 others, following on inoculation
with an anti-diphtheric serum. A laboratory
error is alleged, which places the tragedy in
the same category as the German example, in
which 50 children perished, and our own
Bundaberg (Q.) disaster. A doubt arises
as to wdiether the modern medicine man is
always sufficiently grounded in the technique
of prophylaxis. It is not enough to be con-
tent with reading the directions on the bottle.
As to that, travellers for manufacturing
chemists regularly call on doctors with the
latest products of scientific ingenuity, and
their sales talk and the literature they offer
strikingly resemble those of a toothpaste
pedlar.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Australian press, photographers
are. not allowed as much license as their
brothers in America, where Judges obligingly
pose while the court is flooded with the light
of the magnesium ribbon. Nevertheless, the
law protecting the individual could be bet-
tered in Victoria. Recently a woman against
whom a charge had;been dismissed found a
battery of cameras awaiting her at the
street entrance to the court. Returning to
demand police protection, she was in-
formed that the court precincts
the law had no jurisdiction. On the
other hand, a photographer who snapped an
accused person inside a Melbourne court
bad to stand by while his victim kicked his
£l2O apparatus to pieces—in that case it was
the cameraman who had no protection. Some
years ago a bill making it. an offence to
print photos or sketches of witnesses, jurors,
accused, police and exhibits . was introduced
in the State Parliament, but it got lost in
the rush for the Christmas adjournment. 11
would be worth reviving, .with the proviso
that the owner of the coveted visage be in-
vested with copyright, which he could sell
or retain as suits him.
A- Sr- . * * ,
“Bangemall”: Among platform witticisms
attributed to the late Lord Birkenhead is the
retort that extinguished a noisy Freetrader
who persistently interrupted the speaker with
“Why should you tax my food?” The. reply,
sufficiently obvious to, delight a British com-
munity—or was it a Scottish: one? —was “I
am not aware that it is proposed to put any
duty on thistles.” Birkenhead may-have said
it; more likely it was fastened on him
because he said many good things. - Somehow
it recalls the homely jest with which F. C. B.
Vosper, a Westralian M.L.A. who might
have gone far had he lived, disposed of an
interjector at a goldfields meeting. It was
at the time when the strife between reefing
companies and alluvial miners was at its
height, and Vosper was assailing the ob-
noxious 30ft. regulation that gave a Mines
Minister his sobriquet. “But what is allu-
vial, what is alluvial?” a beei’y nuisance kept
interpolating at the end of every sentence.
The speaker eyed him with distaste. “If you
really want to find out, wash yourself,” he
counselled. Nobody ever disputed with
Vosper the authorship of that effective bit of
. repartee. •
THE LOST LEADER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Do you rue that your travels you went on
To the Empire’s far heart and its hub?
That you left us a locum in Fenton
And leaned upon Lyons as a sub.?
’Twas little enough you could wangle
From Ramsay and Snowden, confess;
Yet your mates must needs riot and wrangle,
With no one to straighten the tangle
And clean up the mess.
In Caucus is squealing and squabble;
Fast friends turn to passionate foes;
And some of them waver and wobble,
And some of them posture and pose.
Their rifts and their schisms are many;
A snarling and leaderless pack,
The goal they are bound for, if any,
Is that of the cats of Kilkenny.
High time you wmre back!
Far off you’ve been fondled and feted,
And mixed with the great and the high,
Heard questions momentous, debated
And intricate problems put by.
You have sat at Stoke Poges reciting
Those grand elegiacs that Gray
Expended such labor in writing.
But, Lord! how the boys have been fighting
While you were away!
Come back where your turbulent flock are,
Bid by-bye to Belfast or Bath,
Ere Anstey goes right off his rocker
Or Hogan dismembers McGrath.,
From the land where they pamper and pet
■ you, ,
James Scullin, come back to your own!
Here are tasks that will tax to be set you.
And—think what it’s costing to get you
Each day on the ’phone!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Chips”: The neatest case of retaliation
in my experience occurred in a Queensland
country town. The editor of the local paper
was accustomed to deal out abuse freely to
all those from whom he had occasion to
differ, and in due course the schoolmaster’s
turn came. The following day the upper
classes, in one of which was the editor’s
hopeful, were confronted with the offensive
article copied verbatim on the blackboard.
“Boys and girls,” said the teacher cheer-
fully, “this passage is full of grammatical
errors; try to put it into decent English.”
Whatever the editor thought when he heard
of the “test” he refrained from pursuing the
controversy.
THE AD.-MAN MISSED HIS CUE.
THE STAR OF THE SILVER SCREEN: “ I’m going to apply to have the case reheard.”
Her Friend: “But why, dear?—you won!”
THE STAR: “Yes, but I’m not at all satisfied with the publicity.”
“Fitzwilliam”: If the N.S.W. Government
hadn’t intervened when the police were
threatening to prosecute proprietors of
miniature golf courses for allowing play on
Sundays, some peculiar ghosts might have
been raised. The authority for the prose-
cution is Sec. 62 of the Police Offences Act,
which sets forth that any J.P. not only may
but is required to disperse all persons gather-
ing together in any open space within five
miles of a town for the purpose of playing
at any game, and to take and seize any im-
plements, instruments or animals used, and
to destroy or carry away the same. As the
law stands there is nothing to prevent any
conscientious magistrate from stalking out
to the nearest' links or tennis court, and in
pursuance of his statutory duties dispersing
the players, grabbing their clubs and balls
and carrying away the caddies. He would be
amply protected by the Act. There are some
curious passages in the law of N.S.W. for
those who know where to look for them.
❖ * * *
“P. O’Teen”: The “moonshine” industry,
so called presumably because it used to be
carried on o’ nights in the open spaces, in-
cluding lone hillsides and inaccessible gullies,
seems to have been transferred to the cities.
At Sydney Central Police Court last week
an inspector casually mentioned that there
was a ring of illicit stills around the city
supplying 135 gallons of spirituous liquor
weekly. The stuff that dodges excise duty
is mostly labelled rum. and, according to
another authority, it is the sort of stimulant
calculated to set those wdio have been in-
dulging in it “climbing lamp-posts.” The
police express concern about the amount the
Government is losing in revenue, but it looks
as if the regular rum-drinker has a legiti-
mate grievance, too. Time was when a faintly
picturesque flavor hung around the illicit still
and the smugglers’ cave, but in these days
of wood alcohol and bootlegging there isn’t
much of it left.
* * * *
“Oxmead” : Churches may occasionally be
abandoned or converted to other purposes
in Sydney, but tin' city is hardly old enough
for them to be lost and rediscovered. In
Britain there are instances of churches hav-
ing been lost so long that most people had
forgotten they ever existed. And not only
in cities, either. At Bradford-on-Avon, a
little manufacturing town in Wiltshire, a
worthy canon was surveying his parish
(built on a sloping hillside) from a point of
vantage when he was struck with something
in the lines and contours of r> little nest of
houses in a mean street. That w r as about 70
5 ears ago. Investigation disclosed, half-
hidden under a huddle of stables and squalid
dwellings, what is believed to be the oldest
Saxon church in England, dating from before
the Conquest. Of course it was restored,
end nowadays antiquaries and arclneologisis
from all over the world come to gloat over
it. As far as can be ascertained it faded
out of use and disappeared from view some-
time in the fifteenth century.
* * * *
“Sydneyite”: In the past three months
four of my small circle of doctor-friends have
gone bankrupt in Sydney. But not a single
barrister has found his way up King-street,
except in the pursuit of his profitable calling.
The explanation, of course, is that the barris-
ters are being paid while the medicoes aren’t.
The greatest stroke of luck that ever befel
the Bar was the mediaeval decision that an
advocate had no legal right to his fees.
Theoretically, barristers have the wages of
din pushed furtively by grateful clients into
the receptacles on the backs of their gowns
at any old time. In practice, all but those
blots on an honorable profession known as
“speculative counsel” see that they get their
so-called honorariums before going into
court, and they actually have solicitors
(paid for by the clients) to act as their
debt-collectors. If only payment of doctors
could be made illegal except through chemists,
who would be required to collect the fees
before advice was tendered or an operation
performed!
=!= * * :|:
“Bluclier”; The colored waterproof mode
for women was comparatively short-lived, but,
by way of compensation, one may nowadays
see feminine footwear of almost every color
of the rainbow, which possibly makes for
brighter pavements. Years ago I remember
reading about the sensation created by the
first woman who wore green boots. She was
an Irish patriot or rebel in the dark days
of 1916, and crowds followed her about
Dublin streets as if she were waving a
banner—'-I believe the same boots, or another
pair of the same hue, subseouontly bore her
into the Dail Eireann. But colors in boots
have no longer any political significance. The
male of the species, although he has ceased
to shy at the most riotous colors in neckties,
somehow lags behind the female in the matter
of gorgeous-hued boots and shoes. Black
served him for a century or two, and he
hasn’t yet struck anything more colorful than
tan, for ordinary wear anyhow.
* * * *
“Oakagee”: There are many hiding-places
for fugitives from justice, and they aren’t all
in the big cities. I recall a “wanted”
man on a Westralian goldfield who literally
went to earth in a mine that had just been
granted six months’ exemption. Of course,
he had sympathetic friends —-his offence
wasn’t very serious—and they victualled him
o’ nights and kept him in beer, too. The
police knew that he hadn’t left the district,
and shrewdly suspected that he was under-
ground, but there were so many mines not
being worked, apart from the possibility of
his being secreted in some show that was,
that they didn’t extend their search below
the surface. In the end the fugitive came up
and took his medicine —six months. Pie said
that it passed more quickly than the six
weeks below.
* * * *
“Gad”: As one who can claim the exceed-
ingly rare distinction of having passed botn
the Sandhurst entrance and 1.0.5. exams., I
can only stigmatise “Crammer’s” remarks
about the possibilities of impersonation (B.
19/11/’3O) as rubbish. The sort of candi-
date who goes up for 1.0.5. exams, seldom
fails; should he do so it merely means that
there were others who did better. In . any
case impersonation would be impossible,
owing to the stringency of the precautions
taken. As for the Sandhurst .exam., it is only
one remove higher than our (N;S.W.) police-
force exam., which any moron could pass,with
a little preparation. To get into Woolwich
(where they do work, because they’re all
tradesmen) you’ve got to do better. But it’s
the same exam.
* * * *
“Shep”: These continual references to
what German marks used to be worth annoy
me when I think of how contemptuously we
treated them in France, believing we’d never
be anywhere where they could be bartered. A
wounded Fritz officer we carried back pre-
sented me with a wallet full of them; I
still have the wallet, but the marks were
thrown out to make room for the few francs
I then possessed. Where souvenir kings
ONCE AND FOR ALL.
HIM : “No, don’t get fidgety, I shan’t propose—l been married once too often already.”
HER: “Gee! I think you’re a terrible man. How often have you been married?”
HIM AGAIN : “Just told you — once.”
worked on prisoners, mark notes of all de-
nominations were tossed to file breeze; a few
collected them to send home as souvenirs, but
they were mostly content with a good speci-
men of each denomination. After the Armis-
tice, when we were, billeted in territory the
Germans had occupied throughout the war,
the discovery that a five-mark note could be
converted into vin blanc at any estaminet set
scores of us combing our packs for stray
Fritz currency. Belgians were authorised
to accept marks at face value till towards
the close of 1918, when the Government
exchanged them for the equivalent in Belgian
notes.
sfc H* ❖
“Flatfoot”: Two months ago the coastal
steamer Melinga lost an anchor while lying
off Tweed Heads (N.S.W.). The other day
she was again off the bar waiting for the
tide to go up the Tweed River. When
she hoisted anchor up came on the hook
the anchor lost two months previously, with
some 20 fathoms of chain. It recalls an
incident of 30 years ago. A miner from the
northern goldfields of Papua dropped his bag
with 200 oz. of gold overboard from the
lugger he was travelling on off East Gape,
not far from Samarai. A lugger with a
diver was sent, out to search the sandy
bottom at about 10 fathoms, the craft drift-
ing slowly with the tide in the usual fashion.
The search was at last abandoned in despair,
but when the trailing anchor was hauled up
there was the sought-for bag attached to it.
'!» H» H»
“Avon”: Maoriland takes a very much
more serious view of motor accidents than
Australia. Insurance against accident being
compulsory on the part of every owner
of a motor vehicle, civil proceedings for
damages almost invariably follow a motoring
mishap in which anyone is injured, and if
the circumstances suggest negligence on the
part of a driver there is a criminal charge
as well. An example of the severity of the
sentences imposed is to be found in a
THE MONOTONY OF LIFE.
PATIENT: “I feel so depressed; and I hardly eat anything.”
DOCTOR: “Indigestion, eh f Suffer much?”
PATIENT: “I’m so tired of meals! Y ou just open yourself and put things in, and then
you shut yourself, and keep them from coming out. It’s the same thing all
the time; and I’m so tired of it.”
ease arising out of the death in a motor
collision of Teddy Reynolds, ex-cliampion
cyclist and well-known Wellington business
man. Reynolds was being driven from
Christchurch to Springfield by the employee
of a motor firm with which he had dealings.
A charge of manslaughter was brought
against this employee, but the jury convicted
only of negligent driving, holding that the
speed was excessive. Myers, C.J., imposed
a fine of £250, in default six months, remark-
ing that he intended to show no leniency to
negligent drivers.
“M. de Paris”: There is considerable in-
terest just now in the inner circles of my
profession in the theory that the American
electric-chair does not actually kill. The
contention is that the current in many cases
merely makes the patient unconscious, just
as men handling live wires lose conscious-
ness. Death arrives when the surgeon opens
the body for the post-mortem. It does not do
to have an atmosphere of uncertainty about
these things, and I cordially recommend to
my American friends the adoption of the
guillotine. Properly managed, the operation
is not at all messy, and there can be little
doubt that it is the most effective and
humane means of execution ever devised.
❖ ❖ ❖ *
“C.Q.”: Vic. Aero Club is the first in Aus-
tralia to supply a course of tuition in night
flying to civilian pilots. A 3,000.000-c.p.
searchlight indicates the landing roadway at
• Essendon, and ’planes are equipped with the
orthodox port and starboard lights.
Hi He sSc sfc
“F.S.” : A lot of nonsense has been talked
about the Soviet Government’s attitude
towards the art treasures of the Romanoffs.
It was stated at first that revolutionaries
had put their feet through priceless treasures
of the Renaissance at the Hermitage in Lenin-
grad, this being the accepted tradition for
the behavior of revolutionaries towards art.
Then it turned out that the Hermitage pic-
tures were intact and hanging in their places.
The latest story is that some of the finest
masterpieces have been removed, ostensibly
to be restored by the Soviet antiquarian
society, but actually to be smuggled out of
the country to the order of an American
millionaire. The alleged deal is denounced
on two grounds—first, that it is wrong to
sell national art treasures, although every
needy European country has done so; and,
second, that the paintings are property
stolen from the Romanoffs, though the
Romanoffs themselves stole some of them.
The fact is that the Bolshies have looked after
the Czarist museums pretty well. It is another
delusion, however, to assert that the Soviet
lias made these treasures available to the
people for the first time. I visited most of
the great Imperial galleries, including the
Hermitage, during the Czarist regime, and
a feature of all of them was organised
bands of peasants and workers, often bare-
foot and in rags, being led through them by
Court guides.
ONE DAY’S LAUGHTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Laugh and forget sad love’s unwise
Lips that immortalise a kiss.
Laugh at life’s dreams and death’s surmise,
And if my folly jest amiss
Laugh, too, at this!
Laugh and forget! Young morning seems
Some lithe and lovely leopardess.
Stretched on the sun-warm sand In dreams,
What reeks she of life’s bitterness
And death’s duress?
My heart "is gossamer to-day,
My dreams are smoke of thistledown,
Light as those: sails that far away
’Mid quivering radiance seem to drown,
Flecked gold and brown.
Here no pain wakes, no sorrow stings!
Joy whispers “Death could never be!”
Only the gulls on noon-drenched wings
Bass flickering o’er the flame-white sea
Like souls set free.
Take hands and dance! The sea gods call!
Though we be strangers each to each,
The meteless moments break Time’s thrall;
Do not the ripples kiss, waves reach
To clasp the beach?
Laugh and 'forget! So swiftly run
The shadows—and so stealthily
That over-soon the day is done,
The blind stars creep and none, may see
The thing to be.
Night’s crowding keels in crimson swim!
Ah, lips unwise, laugh and forget
Life’s bitter kiss! Hark, sweet and dim,
From twilight’s silver minaret,
Day’s laughter yet!
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
womans paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Children’s Hospital No. 2 ART UNION
(ROYAL ALEXANDRA),
DRAWN ON DECEMBER 20, 1930.
Tickets 1/2
POST FREE.
Books of 12
can be had on
application.
Send at once.
Buy NOW!
SS;4S.
By permission of the Honorable the
Attorney-General.
Lighten the
dark times of
the little kiddies
who are in
hospital. They
depend on your
sympathy.
FIRST PRIZE: Wonderful Necklace of Diamonds valued at £5OO.
SECOND PRIZE: Morris Minor Saloon Motor Car (1930 model),
THIRD PRIZE: Beautiful Trousseau valued at £lOO.
TOTAL VALUE OF PRIZES OVER £lOOO.
Apply to Hon. Sec., Box 4200 XX, G.P.0.,
£246 10s.
Sydney.
Missing Friends.
TO YUGOSLAV BOARDINGHOUSE-
KEEPERS, RESIDENTIALS AND
OTHERS CATERING FOR AUSTRO-
HUNGARIAN PATRONAGE.
ANDREW ZANKISH.
INFORMATION is sought concerning the
whereabouts of Andrew Zankish, some-
times known as Andrija Zankicli, Andrew
Zankicli, Zanisli or Zarikey, son of the late
Vinka- Zankish (also known as Vincenza
or Vincenca Zankicli), of Leichhardt, near
Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
Andrew Zankich is believed to have been
born in May, 1890, in Vis (or Lissa), Dal-
matia.
Any person knowing his whereabouts
should communicate with PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED), 33-39
Hunter Street, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some December birthdays :—■
Rev. Arthur H. Garnsey (St. Paul’s College,
Syd. Uni.), 58, on 3rd ; Vic. Opposition-leader
Stanley Argyle, 63, James D. Connolly (former W.A.
Agent-Gen.), 61, and Dr. A. C. D. Rivett (Council
for Scientific and Industrial Research), 45, on 4th;
Major-Gen. John Gellibrand, 58, and Dr. Chas. Ander-
son (Australian Museum, Sydney), 53, on sth;
Justice Brennan (Q.), 46, and W. J. Denny (S. Aus.
Attorney-Gen.), 58, on 6th; Rev. Dr. Pritchard (for
many years editor of “Australian Church Standard”),
74, on 7th; Bishop Stephen (late of Newcastle), 70,
and John M. Higgins (Bawra), 68, on 9th;
D’Arcy W. Addison (Speck’s Agent-Gen.), 58, on
10th; Bishop Nutter Thomas (Adel.), 61, on 11th;
E. S. Roach (S. Aus. Public Library Board), 66,
on 12th; Brig.-Gen. H. A. Goddard (Syd.), 60, and
etcher John Shirlow (Melb.), 61, on 13th; Geo.
Ritchie, M.L.C. (former S. Aus. Treasurer), 66, on
14th; W. Warren Kerr (Melb.), 66, on 15th; Dr.
Cecil Purser (Syd.), 68, John Gunn (ex-S. Aus.
Premier), 45, Senator J. H. Chapman (S. Aus.),
51, and artist Elioth Gruner, 48, on 16th; Rev. T.
E. Ruth (Syd.), 55, on 17th ; Herbert Brookes (Aus-
tralia’s retiring representative in U.S.A.), 63, and
aviator Keith Smith, 40, on 20th; Joseph Carruthers
(N.S.W.), 73, S. Aus. Auditor-Gen. Rogers, 66, and
James H. Gosse (Adel.), 54, on 21st; Justice Harvey
(N.S.W.), 65, on 22nd; Lewis Cohen (several times
Mayor of Adel.), 81, and Doris Egerton Jones
(novelist and playwright), on 23rd; J. H. M. Abbott,
56, on 26th; Prof. R. W. Chapman (Adel.), 64, on
27th; knight G. M. Allard (Syd.), 64, and Dr. E.
A. Anderson (St. Andrew’s Coll., Sydney), 58, on
28th; and knight Kelso King (Syd.), 77, on 30th.
Colin Colalian, engaged to marry Molly
Dean, the literary girl who was brutally mur-
dered in Melbourne last week, was more than
half-way through to his medical degree before
he decided to take up art as a career. lie
had done some very promising black-and-
white work for The Bulletin before lie
came under the spell of Max Mcldrum. On
his advice Colalian, who had inherited some
means from his father, a well-known Mel-
bourne doctor, went to Paris and studied
COLIN COLAHAN.
steadily for four years, before returning to
Australia. It was through their devotion
to Max Meldrum that he and Leason came
together ; Colahan and his fiancee were at a
theatre partv with Mr. and Mrs. Leason on
the eve of the tragedy. As. an extraordinary
coincidence, Leason's drawing for this week s
Bulletin, mailed on the afternoon before
the horrible affair, shows a young woman
(“Australia’s Credit”) in terror of assault.
The passing of 96-year-old John Goulston
removed one of the Chosen who must have
been Sydney’s oldest business inhabitant; he
had a shop on the King-George streets
corner when the city cemetery was where
the Town Hall now stands and race meet-
ings took place in Hyde Park. Relinquish-
ing that business to go storekeeping on the
■west coast (M.L.) gold rush, he made a
fortune at Hokitika, and then returning to
Sydney added another one in business.
A Melbourne cafe recently resounded with
the laughter of 60 members of the Portland
Old Boys’ Fraternity, several of whom were
octogenarians or over. Amongst the veterans
were William Frost, the last survivor of
Captain Dutton’s whaling crew, which began
operations at Portland before the Henty
brothers arrived in 1834; Henty Wilson and
A. R. Henty, grandsons of one of the origi-
nal pioneers; A. R. Esdale (94) and journa-
list Benjamin Iloare (87). Esdale and
Hoare were schoolmates; they met for tlic
first time since their schooldays, and to cele-
brate the occasion Ben Hoare recited “The
Sick Stockrider.”
Lang doesn’t trust anybody altogether; but
Andy Lysaglit, his Attorney-General, and
Mark Gosling, his
Chief Sec., have
much more of his
confidence t li a n
most of them.
These two are both
picturesque char-
acters. Gosling, a
Quaker, is a zealot
who flogs himself
unsparingly. Of
course there are
men who take
advantage of his
ferocious likes and
dislikes: and so as
soon as he got back
to office there were
sales in tin-hare
shares. As a good
Quaker who hates
war and blood-
spilling, Gosling
was persuaded to
approve of the tin-
hare substitute for
the old coursing;
and it was while
he was formerly
Chief Sec. that the
“sport” flourished.
He is a painter by
trade, was an
assisted immigrant
less than 20 years
ago, and worked on
got into Parliament.
MARK GOSLING.
the railways before he
From a friend :
Ewan Frazer, who died last week, qualified as a
doctor after coming down from Oxford, but had
not practised for nearly 30 years. He and his
sister, who married Charles Fairfax, brother of
Jim and Geoff of the “S. M. Herald” family,
inherited the great wealth of their father, John
Frazer, M.L.C., an old-time Sydney merchant. Ewan
took up racing in the early years of the century,
owned some good picnic horses, became an expert
in the figure system of breeding, was elected to
the A.J.C. committee, and won the Maribyrnong
Stakes with Duke of Grafton, and the A.J.C. Cham-
pagne Stakes with Lord Fitzroy. He married one
of the cleverest girls of her day—beautiful Jessie
Middleton, of Goulburn —and when their children
reached school age took the family to England. His
two sons, in addition to being brilliant intellec-
tually, were in the Winchester and Oxford Xl’s;
and Jack, who was killed in a Swiss ski-ing acci-
dent in 1927, played for Sussex. For many years
the Frazers had owned an estate near Grinstead, in
Sussex, but they sold it a couple of years ago and
settled in London. Ewan Frazer was a kindly,
generous-hearted little man who hadn’t an enemy
in the world, and who concealed considerable ability
and force of character behind a shy, unassuming
manner. He was one of the senior members of the
Union Club.
R. D. A. Frew, dead in Sydney at 71, was
for many years one of Queensland’s leading
civil engineers. When Brisbane started its
elaborate water supply and sewerage scheme
he became one of the first members of the
board, serving for a couple of terms before
retiring in 1925. He presented the 17 acres
now known as Frew Park to the Q.L.T.A.,
which elected him its president for 15 years.
Died recently, at 69, Maoriland’s foremost
engineer, Prof. Robert Julian Scott. He was
a son of Rear-Admiral Scott and a cousin of
Scott, the Antarctic explorer. He commenced
bis professional career as a draughtsman in
the M.L. railway department,- rising to loco,
superintendent; at 28 he became director of
the School of Engineering at Canterbury Col-
lege, a position which he held till his resigna-
tion in 1923. His hobby was yachting, and
he designed and owned several speedy vessels.
Failing eyesight hampered his activities in
his latter years.
The ranks of Queensland’s old squatto-
cracy were thinned the other day when a
bne old Hielan’man in Archibald McLeod
joined the last muster. Born in Argyll-
shire, he came to the Darling Downs as a
youngster with the wave of Scottish immi-
gration following on Patrick Leslie’s dis-
covery of the famous grazing area. McLeod's
first job was under W. B. Slade, of Gle-
gallon, and he learned his trade so well
that he was always in demand as a station
manager and flockmaster. He was unex-
celled as a wool expert and judge of sheep
until he retired from La Plata station in
the Barcoo country a few years ago, to
live in Brisbane. His final tally was 75.
David Millar, dead in Queensland at 61,
could fairly be called a full-time journalist.
He began his journey on the Inky Way at
Murtoa (Vic.), and was editing the War-
racknabeal “Northern Argus” at 19. After
a short period of dalliance with life-insur-
ance, he resumed the journalistic life; ne
controlled or owned at one time or another
several N.S.W. country papers, the last being
the “Cessnock Express,” which he ran until
his retirement in 1927.
The last link with the early days of the
Presbyterian Church in Maoriland was
snapped by the death, in his 100th year, of
the Rev. George Brown at Auckland. An
Aberdonian, he arrived in Auckland <0
years ago, and a 50-mile walk on a
Sunday to expound the Word did not come
amiss to the pioneer parson. He was on
one of his walks in 1563 when lie was an
eye-witness of the wreck of 11.M.5. Orpheus,
bound from Sydney to Onehunga, when ..00
perished.
As a very small girl Mrs. 'Mary Ann
Anderson was amongst those present in
1840 when Captain Hobson proclaimed
Maoriland a British possession. She
was born in Hobart, but when she was
two years old her parents moved across
to the Shivery Islands. _ Mrs. Ander-
son, who lives at Hastings, in the Ihiwkes
Bay district, is nowadays accepted as the
country’s oldest white inhabitant. She has
just kept her 97th birthday.
Back in Adelaide is H. C. Morphett, after
four years at Oxford, during which he rowed
against Cambridge twice, -and became presi-
dent of the 0.U.8.C.
James Moorhouse, dead at Norfolk Island
at 86, was an old identity .of Adelaide, secre-
tary of both the Hunt Club and Tattersall s
for some 20 years at the beginning of the
century. He kept a full and frank diary in
those, clays, which might make a sensation it
published now.
The bronze bust of Alfred Deakin has been
placed in Vic. Parliamentary library, close to
tlic glass doors opening to the garden. It
there was one portion of Parliament House
upon which Deakin set special store during
his long Federal and State political career
it was the library, and it is fitting that ins
memory should be perpetuated there.
A. A. Edwards, a veteran Laborite _of
SA ’ Assembly, is in an awkward position
over the Adelaide City Council election, the
party endorsement has gone to someone else.
Not anticipating this after IS years on the
council, Edwards had already re-nominatec*.
The corporation rules don’t allow him t >
withdraw the nomination, while the party
rules threaten him with excommunication if
he doesn’t.
Edmond John Hogan will be 46 on Dec.
12 and on the same day he will complete a
year as Premier in his second Vic. Ministry.
The tall man is improving with age. Experi-
ence lias taught him better methods than
when he was bead of his first Administiation
(1927-28). He is less cocksure but more
impressive.
Copley Playford
has retired on pen-
sion after # nearly
40 years in tin 1 ,
NT." A son of
“Honest Tom”
Playford, a one-
time S. Aus. Pre-
mier, Copley start-
ed off as a cadet in
the Survey Depart-
ment under Goy-
der. For years he
was Chief Warden
in the N.T., and he
topped off his long
official career by-
filling the job of
Acting Administra-
tor for 18 months
at Govern-
ment House. He
had a sound know-
ledge of the North,
which put him in
a different class
from Jock Gilruth,
Urquhart, Stani-
forth Smith and
other of his prede-
cessors. Before the
motoring era he
was a fine driver
of a four-in-hand
along rough bush
tracks.
E. C. PLAY FORD.
Mrs. Mary Holden, dead at Geelong,
was the widow of Alderman Holden
and mother of G. F. Holden, chairman of
Melbourne Harbor Trust. Three other sons
are the Rev. A. T., chaplain-general of the
A.M.F.; Percy, sub-collector of Customs at
Geelong; and Alderman Arthur, of the same
city. A daughter is the wife of the Rev.
S. ,T. Hoban, of Melbourne’s Central Method-
ist mission. The old lady was very nrf.a and
very proud of her family. G.F. was once
member for Warrenheip in Vic. Assembly.
Bawra (tlic British-Australian Wool
Realisation Assoc.. Ltd.), formed in 1921 to
market the Australian wool that wasn t sold
during tne war, has got one step nearer its
end; and then John Higgins will lose a job
that has kept him busy since just after the
war started/ Though John had been a
metals man all his life —he was a Bendigo
School of Mines boy—he switched over to
wool quite easily when Hughes, whom he had
J. M. HIGGINS.
greatly impressed, wanted somebody to
handle the Australian wool-clip on Britain’s
behalf. Later, when Bawra came to be
wound up, he and Charles Murphy were
appointed liquidators. C. R. Murphy was
born and bred in wool; as quite a youngster
he managed West Darling stations for the
Union Bank, then went squatting in the
saltbush with a syndicate of partners and
made enough to retire to better grazing in
Victoria. One more little lawsuit, and it is
expected that the pair will be able to make
a final distribution on Bawra’s behalf.
Rev. F, G. Masters, who was once an
Anglican rector at East Adelaide, and later
at Balaclava, Melbourne, has just been
appointed rector of an old church in the
heart of London. His wife, who died not
long since, was a daughter of Charles Todd,
sometime astronomer and P.M.G. in S. Aus.
The bugle has sounded for Edward Barker,
of Millicent (S.A.), a veteran of the Maori
Wars. A member of the 14tli regiment
(Prince Alfred’s Own), the old campaigner
until the last two years travelled regu-
larly to Adelaide for the annual reunion
of the Veterans’ Corps. He was born in
England 88 years ago.
Norbcrt Keenan, K.C., Westralia’s present
Chief Secretary, represented Ivalgoorlie for
a couple of terms in the pre-war years and
was Attorney-General in one or two Govern-
ments. He never hit it very well with
Newton Moore, who ruled the Liberal' roost
in those times and is now a British M.P.,
and finally he resigned his Cabinet position
and forbore to re-contest his goldfields seat,
staying out of politics for 19 years. The
interval was mainly devoted his pro-
fession, in which he rose high. H’e has had
several trips to England to argue cases before
the Privy Council, and might have been a
Judge if he had wished.
“New Bailey”: England’s Justice Avory,
now over 79, is the oldest criminal Judge in
the Empire, and probably in the world. He
was called to the Bar 55 years ago. Small,
spare, alert and fit, he is a physical and
intellectual phenomenon, having the sight,
hearing and powers of concentration o| a
man of 50 or less. Age has not softened his
hostility to the criminal classes, and his
reputation for severity is such that assize
juries often hesitate to convict when he is
on the Bench. Oddly enough, two of his
intimate friends, Lord Darling and the late
Lord Brampton, were about his weight
(9st.), devoted to horses and intensely reli-
gious, as he is, and known far and wide in
the underworld as hanging judges.
Lenox Simpson, otherwise Putnam Weale,
the novelist, who was recently reported as hav-
ing been savagely attacked in Tientsin, has
passed away. He is the first Englishman to
pay the penalty of assassination for parti-
cipating in Chinese politics. lie was adviser
to various Celestial Governments, and the
northern coalition seized the Customs
and put him in charge of it. Simpson
was present at Peking during the Boxer
massacres, watched the Russo-Jap War for
the “Daily Telegraph,” was at the elbow of
several Chinese presidents, and found time
in between to write 19 novels. Plis “Indis-
creet Letters from Peking” is the most vivid
account on record of the Boxer business.


HOW THE FARMER SEES IT.
LABOR POLITICIAN: “But, Dad, we’ll go broke if you go off the farm.”
THE STARVED-OUT FARMER: “Yes, and I’ll go broke if I stay here keeping you in bread at less than it costs me to grow.”


INSURE WITH THE
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Company—
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
1,1:
i
WATER FILTRATION
For manufacturing purposes clear water is
essential. The “SWIRL” FILTER gives
a large output and is specially suitable for
Ice Works, Butter Factories, Laundries, etc.
Also Sole Manufacturers of the well-known
“Abbot” Germ-proof Filters, pressure or
crockery, for household use, Cordial
Factories, etc. i
Catalogues on Application.
Guthridge Limited
Sole Manufacturers
10-12 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, N.S.W.
Roof your House yith Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter S Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Provincial Assurance
Towards
Re- Nominal
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
3922.. 389;266 74,112 231,092 84.0G2 428,340
1923.. 417,503 70,798 205,151 141,554 569,894
1924.. 448,628 54,055 214,970 179,603 749,497
1925.. 357,212 69,196 149,226 133,790 f „„
Superannuation fund, £5OOO .. j° .
Added to establishment, £174,340 .. 708,947
1926.. 382,789 66,728 129,313 186,748 895,695
Superannuation fund taken in, £5OOO. . 900,695
Sept.,
1927 f. 287,631 53,573 73,410 1G0,648 1,061,343
L.O.A. absorbed; added Life
fund 497,017 1,558,360
Added other reserves .. 19,759 1,578,119
Assets written up, £50,378 . . 1,628,497
1928.. 447,856 95,774 108,538 243,544 1,872,041
Transferred to specific reserves, £40,061.. 1,831,980
1929.. 476,034 109,362 120,439 246,233 2,078,213
Transferred to specific reserves, £24,152.. 2,054,061
1930.. 473,372 111,520 116,692 345,160 2,299,221
* Expenses include dividends to shareholders; 1920,
£9359; 1921, £49,918; 1924, £42,056 ; 1925,
£20,352 ; 1928, £17,015; 1929, £8537 ; 1930,
£8926. fNine months.
Since the new board, headed by E. S. Paul,
took control about four years ago it has done
splendid work in repairing the damaged
finances and in setting the business gener-
ally upon sound foundations. A pleasing
feature of the activities is that the interests
of policy-holders have been placed in the
foreground. Their protection has been
strengthened by an improved basis of valua-
tion, and they have had annual bonuses
aggregating £185,602 since 1027, while share-
holders have received but £34,478 in divs.
averaging 3.3 p.c. p.a. Moreover, £255,942
of rubbish has been cleared out of the
accounts, reducing the heap to £113,000 at
Sept. 30, and the board says there is tan-
gible value to represent the difference.
An unfortunate consequence of the re-
criminations associated with the change in
control was a heavy falling off in the volume
of new business. Still, that may not do the
co. any harm in the long run, because large
savings have been made in costs, which were
formerly a hindrance to the development of
satisfactory earning capacity. Consider these
figures:—
1926. 1929. 1930.
Sum assured £1,356,663 £559,292 £562,935
First premiums .. 42,884 14,459 16,914
Renewal premiums .. 234,961 286,706 273,552
Interest, etc 68,410 141,385 148,926
Claims . . .. 51,156 94,868 96,948
Exes. .. . . . . 111,628 102,096 95,375
The co. did well to increase its new busi-
ness last year. Excluding taxation charges
(£22,771)’ and it is fair to do so, exes, took
25 p.c. of the year’s net premiums as against
27.1 p.c. in the previous term and 40.1 p.c. in
1926. The year’s first premiums cost 164 p.c.
compared with 189 p.c. and 173 p.c. in 1929
and 1928 respectively; that is on the gener-
ally accepted basis that new business is TO
times more expensive than old. These
are still high, but further improvement is
expected to follow a revision of old commis-
sion contracts, which expire very shortly.
The slump in renewals, which suggests heavy
lapses, is a sign of the times.
The year’s incomings exceeded outgoings
by £254,086 —Ordinary branch £247,069,
Accident £7Ol7 —and the growth in liabilities
under policies was £146,531. Of the £107,555
that remained £50,922 provided bonuses of
from 30s. per cent, on endowment assurances
to 50s. per cent, on whole-of-life policies over
15 years in force. A 2J p.c. div. took £5926,
and £24,000 was struck off establishment
charges and the balance helped to wipe out
some of the old bad debts.
The protection for policy-holders and
shareholders is in this form :
1926. 1929. 1930.
Public securities. . £639,474 £1,015,692 £1,032,683
Mortgages . . 521,155 668,744 842,316
Loans on policies,
etc 35,234 88,400 142,489
Book debts, cash, • >'
etc . .. . . 102,911 178,073 122,564
Equipment . . 16,302 14,642 12,081
Properties.. .. 198,270 413,483 447,382
Shares in other
71,172 # 220,433 224,580
Tangible assets. . £1,584,518 £2,599,467 £2,824,095
Sundry creditors.. 318,151 133,568 123,081
Net tangibles .. £1,266,367 £2,465,899 £2,701,014
Assurance fund*. . 1,195,112 2,213,980 2,411,406
Paid capital .. 339,046 351,150 357,028
* Includes reserves for unexpired risks— £12,178,
1926; £13,394, 1929 ; £13,367, 1930.
Alterations to the L.C.A. building (Mel-
bourne), which is now 7 nearly all let. are
responsible for the growth in the premises
item. At Sept. 30 net tangibles _exceeded
liabilities under policies by £302.975, an im-
provement of £219,542 over the last four years.
The backing for the 10s. shares has thus
advanced from 2s. Id. to 7s. Sd. over the
same period. Shares in other cos. include
£146,508 of bank, insurance and industrial
stocks; L.C.A. scrip figures at £78.012,
which is more than offset by the purchase
and adjustment accounts (together £81,888)
on the other side of the sheet.
The office assumes that its life fund wili
earn 4 p.c.; actually 5.9 p.c. was netted on
the mean fund last year as against 6.4 p.c.
the year before. And the tax-gatherer
threatens to make off with more, thus further
reducing the amount available for bonuses
from this source.
The scrip is priced at ss. Od. 'on the
market, at which figure the return is 4.5
p.c. on a 24 p.c. div. basis.
The Australasian Paper and Pulp Co., Ltd.
Writ- Re-
June Profits. Dividends. ten Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
1921*. 72,938 10 p.c. = 62,130 10,808
1922. . 69 -121 8 „ ~ 59,720 10,000 10,509
1923 77 913 8 ~ ~ 63,885 14,000 10,536
1924.! 79,553 8 „ „ 07,720 12,000 10,370
Preliminary exes., £7675 .. • ■ 2,695
Pref. Ord.
1925.. 91,027 8 v>.e. 6 p.c. =57,258 30,000 6,464
Deficit.
Reserves disappear, £lO,OOO .. 3,536
1926.. 97,177 S p.c. 7 p.c.=72,535 23,500 2,394
Reserves.
Premiums on shares, £14,344 .. 11,950
Assets transferred to subsidiary.
Added to reserves, £89,107 . . 101,057
1927.. 95,923 8 p.c. 8 p.c. =83,000 113,980
Sept.,
192 Sf. 70,781 8 p.c. 6 p.c. =71,3961 113,365
1929.. 28,848 8 „ 2 „ „ 36,762 105,4al
1930.. 73,978 8 „ 6 ~, ~ 73,727 251 105,702
*Ten months. fFifteen months.
JDivs. to June 30, 1928.
In 1926 this co. and the Cumberland Board
Mills, Sydney, decided to bury the, hatcher
and go on the market together. So they
sold their respective assets on a valuation
basis for scrip to a new operating co., Aus-
tralian Paper Manufacturers. Ltd. The A.
I*, and P. Co. got 1,098,271 paids, including
80,107 for surplus assets; its holding has
since grown to £1,241,889 (cost) by cash
subscriptions. Its only other asset at Sent.
30 was £52,002 of deposits, etc. There was
£7949 coming to creditors, and paid capital
was £1,152,618 in 228,500 8 p.c. cum. prefs.
and 924,118 ords.
The destruction by fire of the Cumberland
mills affected the 1929 figures. Last year
the business appears to have held well, de-
spite adverse conditions. Still, after satis-
fying the pref. requirements, there was only
a trifle more profit than was required to
give the ords. 6 p.c.. making an average of
5.5 p.c. over the last four years.
But it is how the operating co. is getting
along that matters most. Over the last three
years it has produced the following results:
Net Profit
Year, P-c. Average
June 30, Amount. Capital. Dividends.
1928.. £96,147 6.2 55 p.c. = £90,826
1929.. 45,797 2.8 24 „ „ 40,000
1930.. 102,720 8.1 74 „ „ 96,000
Better might have been expected. But com-
petition and price-cutting were not the only
troubles; some of the plant was not so
modern as it might have been. Though the fire
caused some dislocation and loss, it really did
not do the co. much harm. A smaller mill
was put up at Botany (Sydney), additions
were made to the Fairfield (Vic.) plant, and
normal output was soon restored, with sav-
ings in overhead. Also the co. was able to
substantially reduce the debt, and thus
greatly improve its financial position.
Last vear opportunity was taken to tidy up
the accounts generally. To wipe out £104,708
of goodwill, clean the slate of losses and
charges amounting to £119,861 on account
of the Cumberland Mills, Geelong property
and Botany plant, strike off £58,611 m re-
spect of the Commonwealth Board Mills,
bought about three years ago for £llO,OOO,
and provide £36,820 for special depreciation
on existing plant, 4s. per share (£320,000)
was lopped off capital, reducing it to
£1,280,000 in 16s. shares at June 30. lhough
this has not increased the co.’s earning
power, it has enabled a better rate of div.
to be paid on capital as reduced.
Here is the position as the manufacturing
co.’s balance-sheet figures disclose it; —
1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital . . £1,600,000 £1,600,000 £1,280,000
Doans etc •• 447,704 127,874 114,233
Sundry creditors . . 52,991 69,940 33,905
Freehold and plant 1,406,202 1,271 t 487 1,162,043
Shares other cos. 25 668 26,206 26,656
otock " •• 475,116 279,742 326,190
Rook debts .. 151,593 151,466 177,322
Cash .. •• 17,311 116,497 1,358
The year’s net reduction in the book value
of freeholds and plant was £109,444. Loans
include £90,000 due to the Commonwealth
Bank the balance of £llO,OOO made avail-
able by the British Trade Facilities Board
for purchase of new Kraft paper-maki
plant. Altogether the more or less liquid
surplus (£356,732, including stocks) was
£OB4l stronger than at the close of accounts
in 1020.
In the A P and P. Co.’s books the manu-
facturing co.’.s scrip still figures at cost, or
£l6l 000-odd more than its net tangible book
value at June 30. excluding the depreciation
anJT tax reserves. No notice therefore need
be taken of the so-called reserves m the table.
On the market the prefs. are priced at par
or thereabouts. The cover amounts to ovei
£4 in net tangibles, and last year s profit
was over four times their minimum annual
requirements; they advance with. the ords.
up to 10 p.c. For the ords. 10s. is offered ;
at which figure the return is 12 p.c on a
6 p.c. div. basis. The cover is IDs. m
net tangibles, mostly plant, etc., worth what
it can earn.
Buckley and Nunn, Ltd. (Melb.).
, Dividends ■ N
p re f. To Re- Re-
Profit. (7 p.c.) Ordinary. serves, serves.
July, £ £ £ £ £
1920. .102.626 10,780 10 p.0.=18,52l |
Preliminary exes, written off, ) 72,086 76,916
£1239. J
Reserves capitalised, £63,613 .. 13,303
1921.. 71,447 10,500 12J p.c.=31,804 29,143 42,446
1922.. 67,816 10,904 15 „ „ 38,165 18,747 61,193
1923.. 73,318 10,500 15 „ ~ 88,165 24,653 85,846
Hidden reserves disclosed .. 24,149109,995
Reserves capitalised, £69,608 .. 40,387
1924.. 74,548 10,500 15 p.c.=48,23C 15,854 56,241
1925.. 59,583 10,500124,, „ 40,505 8,578 64,819
1926.. 63,117 10.500 124,; ~ 40,505 12,112 76,931
1927 . 72,025 10,500 161,, „ 52,656 8,869 85,800
1928.. 60,476 10,500 13J ~ „ 44,555 5,421 91,221
1929.. 65,213.10,500 13J „ „ 44,555 10,158 101,379
1930.. 46,400 10,500 10 ~ ~32,404 3,496 104,875
Though the quick development of Myers,
next door, and of others, including new-
comers into Bonrke-street, put an edge on
competition, it also brought more people into
the city, and the old-established drapery
business of Buckley and Nunn expanded
along with the rest. Over the last decade
additions and extensions to the co.’s pre-
mises and plant are reflected in a net growth
of £295,217 in the book value of fixed assets,
and the net addition to the outside debt was
£93,092; surplus earnings provided the dif-
ference. Over the same period the ords.
averaged 13.1 p.c., sweetened with £133.211
of bonus scrip, and reserves £104,875 in
excess, of the £60,741 at which the very
extensive goodwill figures in the books had
visibly accumulated at the close of last
accounts.
However, the circumstances which made
these attractive performances possible no
longer prevail. During the period covered
by the latest accounts financial debility and
other economic ills restricted turnovers
generally. That, the fall in prices (the
trend is still downward) and changes in
fashion have necessitated cuts in most lines
to ensure clearance of stocks. It all shows
up in the accounts by a sharp drop of
£18,813 in net profits. After handing the
prefs. their £10,500, the balance was 11.1
p.c. on the ord. capital as against 17.2, 15.4,
18.9 and 16.2 p.c. back to 1926. So 3f points
were knocked off the div., reducing it to
10 p.c., and that rate is most insecure. The
slip in earnings was mainly during the
second half of the term, and since the books
closed developments in the exchange market,
tariff increases, import prohibitions and
stinging increases in income and other taxes
have added enormously to the difficulties.
Staple articles are displacing novelties, more
attention is being given to local manufac-
ture, and retailers are being compelled to
make a closer study of family budgets and
price ranges.
The year’s difficult trading is again re-
flected in the following comparison:—
IQ9I 109 S IQ9Q IQSO
Ord. capital. . £324,041 £324,041 £324,041
Pref. capital. . 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Liabilities .. 172,199 232,392 332,390 268,673
Premises, etc. 165,109 297,999 407,735 411,044
Plant, etc. .. 34,234 87,456 83,132 83,465'
Book debts .. 105,415 95,937 90,496 77,368
Stock . . . . 279,151 339,821 313,801 304,582
Cash .. .. 56,876 21,927 58,969 5,323
Compared with the 1929 figures stock on
hand (£284.940) was £27,920 heavier at
July 24, and goods in transit (£19,643)
were £37,13S lighter. The outside debt,
which comprises deposits (£123,033), trade
creditors (£27,240) and mortgages
(£118,400) was reduced £63,717, liquids
being drawn for the purpose. The more or less
liquid surplus (£118,600, including stocks)
was £12,276 lighter than at the close of the
previous accounts.
On the market 245. 6d. is now offered for
the ords., which fetched 425. a year ago. The
return at the lower price is 7.3 p.c. on a
9 p.c. div. basis, or 6.5 p.c. if the rate drops
to 8 p.c. The net tangible cover is 265.
sd. At 18s. 9d. the prefs. yield 7.4 p.c. They
carry a fixed cumulative 7 lie., and have
priority as to capital. Last year’s profit
was over four times their annual require-
ments, and the backing is £3 17s. 2d. in net
tangibles.
Clifford Love and Co., Ltd. (Sydney).
Net To Nominal
Sent Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 19,646 10 p.c. = 12,861 6,785 28,123
Premium on shares .. 10,000 38,123
1923.. 18,501 10 p,c. = 16,911 1,590 39,713
1924.. 23,762 10 „ „ 16,911 6,851 46,564
1925.. 28,100 121 „ „ 21,138 6,962 53.526
1926.. 28,989 124 „ „ 21,138 7,851 61.37 <
1927.. 28 757 121 ~ ~ 22,896 5,861 67,238
1928.. l2l ~ „ 25,599 6,738 73,976
1929.. 32,958 121 „ „ 26,423 6,535 80,511
1930.. 27,633 121 „ „ 26,423 1,210 81,721
This well-handled concern, which is in the
dry-goods trade, turns out several firmly
established ' proprietary lines. Family in-
terests held the scrip tight for half a cen-
tury ; the public became interested in 1022.
when Brown and Poison’s business was-
absorbed and the shares listed. Since then 1
turnover has stepped along so briskly that
extensive additions had to be made to prem*
sises and plant, and savings in overhead fol-
lowed. So, although £82,771 of fresh capital
has been gathered during the past eight
years, a 21 p.c. bonus has been sent, out with
the 10 p.c. div. for the last half-dozen of
them. , , „ '
During the 12 months to the close of the
latest accounts prices for some of tljc co.’s
raw materials eased, and, though trade gener-
ally quietened, there was a firm demand for
groceries and foodstuffs. Thus, after setting;
aside an extra £lOOO for taxation (£11,000)
and openly reserving £lOOO for doubtful
debts the board was able to write net earn-
ings only £5325 short of the 1020 figure at
13 p.c. on average capital compared witu
15.5, 15.4, 15.6 and 17.1 p.c. back to 1026.
That is leaving out of the reckoning net
additions of £4556 to the reserves for contin-
<>oncies, depreciation, insurance, etc., whicn
totalled £107,427 at Sept. 30; appearances
are, therefore, that the 12 A p.c. distribution
was a more comfortable matter than the bare
p. and 1. figures suggest. Nevertheless trad-
ing is becoming increasingly difficult, while
taxation is deepening its bite into earnings,
thus preventing their re-employment in the
business, restricting its expansion and affect-
ing unit costs.
The next table shows the healthy state of
the co.’s finances andjhe general growth of
the business over the last eight years:—
1922. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital .. .. £128,607 £211,383 £211,383
Mortgages and overdraft 47,027 16,647
Trading debts .. .. 17,351 22,452 17,706
Properties . . . . 66,265 143,817 146,294
Machinery, plant, etc... 59,541 125,006 131,480
Stocks .. •• 43,347 62,726 61,007
Rook debts . . . . 32,540 34,402 29,366
Cash and sundries .. 5,285 21,267 13,.>3<
Last year £8951 was added to the book value
of fixed assets and £6516 was snipped off
the outside debt. The moderate size of booK
debts and stocks is a favorable feature;
results will largely depend upon the extent to
which the plant is kept employed. Including
slocks, the more or less liquid surplus
(£71,827) was £7469 less than at the close
of accounts in 1929.
After sales at 28s. buyers offer 30s. for
the pound shares as against 40s. a year ago.
The return at 28s. is 8.3 p.c. on a 121 p.c.
distribution, or 6.7 p.c. if the 2$ p.c, bonus
is dropped. Excluding the depreciation, etc.,
reserve the backing is 20s. lid. in net tan-
gibles.
Harrington’s, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Pref.
9 p.c. Ord.
1926.. 6,721 3600 Nil 3121 46,117
1927.. 15,009 3600 10 p.c. = 6000 5409 51,526
Leasehold sold; reserves reduced
£3185 48,341
1928 . 9,865 3600 10 p.c. = 6000 265 48,606
1929.. 12,706 3600 10 „ „ 6000 3106 51,712
1930.. i 8,726 Nil Nil 8726 60,438
The backbone of the business has always
been cameras and photographic materials,
but recently activities have become very wide-
spread, and motion-picture and talkie equip-
ment were added to stocks. Last year, owing;
to heavy tariff increases and the placing of
radio goods on the prohibited list, the co.
turned to the local manufacturer for supplies,
and acquired a controlling interest in Rayco-
phone, Ltd., whose factory has been kept
busy. Recently the Test matches gave the
radio trade an impetus, but that phase has
passed and business has become dull again.
For the 12 months to June 30 last Har-
ringtons’ gross profit (£116,946) showed a
drop of £6283. Exes. (£108,306, including
£2139 set aside for taxation) were cut back
£lB6B ; thus, after allowing for minor adjust-
ments and the pref. div., the net result fell
to 8.5 p.c. on ord capital, compared with
15.1, 10.4, 19 and 5.2 p.c. back to 1926.
Though the pref. requirements were thus well
covered, the board decided to conserve
finances, and neither prefs. nor ords. were
paid a div. It is the first time, since the
shares were listed five years ago that the
prefs. have been passed over; the ords. have
twice gone hungry, the other time being in
(Continued on next page.)


Watch Your
Step J
•
These are days when a man
may lose the savings of a life-
time.
These are days when a man
may lay the foundations of a
fortune.
The thing is to know. “The
‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” has im-
mense data at its disposal and
a staff of specially trained in-
vestigators and accountants.
It will help you to save losses
and make gains.
NOVEMBER NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY. 2/-;
PER ANNUM. 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * He
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Codlison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Gruelling tests, designed to definitely prove the
efficiency of Pioneer Wood Pipes, have recently been
carried out, and the results have more than justified
the confidence put in these excellent pipes by experi-
enced engineers. Pioneer Wood Pipe gives definitely
efficient service—is durable, strong and non-corrosive.
It is easily and cheaply laid —and costs considerably
less than metal pipe. The Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge),
Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; and at Footscray, Victoria.
—Advt.
Bismuth. —We are buyers of Bismuth Concentrates
in any quantity. Write, giving particulars of
quantity available, and send samples to Elliott
Brothers, Limited, Box 494 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
—Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers'
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
Free Service to Belting Users
In nearly every plant there is a power transmission problem. It is our business and pleasure to
overcome these difficulties.
A lifelong- study of the belting requirements of different industries has taught us that greater
transmission efficiency, less lost time, and more economical production is only possible when the
belting used is suited to the drive and the conditions. Our experts and Pioneer Waterproof
Leather Belting will solve your problem. Write or ’phone M 4341.
There are more Pioneer Belts in use in Australia than any other make.
LEATHER LASTS LONGEST.
THE LEADER SINCE JBSB
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY (Our only City Address).
Queensland Agents: HOEY, FRY, LTD., Edward Street, Brisbane.
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner, d
la carte, from 1/6. Inclusive tariff from 13/6 per
day; £4/4/- weekly. Special quotations for sport-
ing bodies, etc. Situated right opposite Spencer
Street Station, no taxi fares; railway porter carries
baggage across if necessary. Please write for detailed
tariff card. Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is sufficient
address.
3926, when a slump in radio materials cut
into profits.
Earnings have been irregular. The main
trouble is stocks; the co. handles lines in
which styles and models alter frequently.
The recent change-over from battery to all-
electric sets was largely responsible for the
drop in last year’s earnings.
The co. was leaning heavily on outsiders
at the close of last accounts: —
1926. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Old. capital. . £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Mortgages . . 31,000 31,000 46,000 46,000
Overdraft . . 32,295 10,320 19,497 44,466
Other liabilities 75,298 72,239 75,719 67,459
Premises . . 100,672 65,630 101,022 101,350
Plant, etc. . . 20,506 17,590 17,106 16,94 S
Stock.. .. 84,855 88,190 83,389 87,900
Debtors . . 56,973 77,293 78,723 85,114
Shares in other
cos 18,309 18,309 18,309 25,017
Cash, etc. ' . . 6,610 5,122 5,692 5,955
The debt was then £57,925 in excess of paid
capital, though £46,000 of it was a mort-
gage. Shares in other cos. also include hold-
ings in three subsidiaries —Harringtons’
Metallurgists, Ltd.; Harringtons, N.Z., Ltd.
(covering the Maoriland field) ; and Harring-
tons (W.A.), Ltd. Since the close of
accounts in 1928 a leasehold in Clarence-
street, Sydney, has been acquired for ware-
house premises, a freehold has been bought
to house the Brisbane branch, and opera-
tions have extended to Tasmania and West-
ralia. The book value of premises, which
dropped from £103,411 in 1927 to £65,630
in 1928, have since increased to £101.350,
thus putting a strain on finances. Compared
with the previous balance the co. was carry-
ing an extra £6391 of book debts at June
30, stocks were £4511 heavier, and shares
in other cos. were up £6708. The more or
less liquid surplus, which increased from
£23.771 in 1027 to £57,046 in 1928, was
down to £21,044 at the close of last accounts.
Share-market dealings are restricted to the
prefs.. of which 40,000 are issued. They
are covered by net tangibles with a book
value of £4 Os. 2d. Buyers recently offered
17s.
Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co.
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
Sept., £ £ £ £
1920.. 133,067 15 p.c. = 193,379 57,060 927,716
Additions to reserves, £166,575, ap-
parently mostly war-time tax pro-
visions .. .. .. .. 1,094,591
1921. . 104,880 Nil 53,050 1,146,421
New plant reserve, £84,094 taken in. . 1,230,515
1922. . 167,119 Nil 43,353 1,354,281
1923. . 237,131 10 p.c.= 128,919 70.412 1,392,081
Transferred to Superannuation Fund,
£22,000.. 1,370,081
1924.. 2«,577 10 p.c.= 128,919 51,240 1,431,499
1925. . 237,125 10 ~ „ 128,919 58,167 1,481,5.38
Written off mine property, £200,000.. 1,281,538
1926.. 220,487 Hi p.c.= 145,034 64,670 1,292,321
1927.. 246,359 11-1 „ ~ 145,034 53,583 1,340,063
1928.. 261,516 llj „ ~145,034 61,938 1,394,607
1929.. 435,752 13J „ ~177,265 111,624 1,541,470
1930.. 189,532 18J „ ~241,724 58,354 1,430,924
The divs. shown are those paid during the
period covered by the accounts. In June Is.
per share was distributed, and another shil-
ling is to be sent, out on Dec. 17. But it
is doubtful whether that rate can be
maintained under existing conditions. After
allowing for depreciation and development
charges, shown as written off in the table,
last year’s £131,178 of profit was 8.5 p.c.
on capital as it now stands. The abrupt
contraction in earnings was due to lighter
returns from investments and the slump in
metal prices. Still, electrolytic averaged
£7O 15s. 9d. for the 12 months to Sept. 30
as against £B3 Is. 4d. for the previous year.
It was held up by a combination of the
chief American producers; an accumu-
lation of stocks has since broken down the
market, and the price is now around £5O.
The future is obscure.
On the mining side a quickening of pro-
duction and large savings have followed com-
pletion of the North Lyell tunnel and the
refinery at Queenstown :
1923. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Ore mined (tons) 133,680 126,569 173,162 244,440
Blister produced
(tons) .. .. 5,478 7,126 7,869 9,898
Contents:—-
Copper (tons) . . 5,430 7,060 7,803 9,817
Silver (oz.) . . 109,812 121,456 125,687 187,489
Gold (oz.) .. 1,808 2,360 2,462 3,631
Proceeds from pro-
ducts (inc. chemi-
cals, etc.) (£).. 545,292 637,805 ? ?
The output of crudes has almost doubled in
the last two years, while mining costs (17s.
Id. last year) have been reduced by 4s. Sd
per ton of crudes. Also there was a cut
of £2 2s. lOd. per ton of copper produced
in treatment, etc., charges during the last
12 months, and further savings are expected.
Thus encouraged the management decided
to treat a # large body of low-grade silic-ious
ore in the'Royal Tharsis and other proper-
ties. So the capacity of the mill is being
increased to 1000 tons a day, and that of
the refinery to 13,000 tons per annum. The
work is well advanced, and full output is
scheduled for January.
Measured ore reserves at Sept. 30 were
as follows:
Copper, Silver, Gold,
Tons. p.e. oz. oz.
North Lyell . . 851,561 5.25 1.00 0.015
Lyell Comstock . . 750,000 3.00 0.25 0.03
Royal Tharsis . . 2,500,000 2.25 0.10 0.02
There is at least 13 years’ work ahead
there. The northern end of the new deposit
passes close to the North Lyell tunnel;
below that level (1100 ft.) the extent of the
body has not been proved. Also there is a
lot of p.c. to 2 p.c. copper ore that can
be mined by open cut in the .Crown and
Lyell Tharsis leases. But it is uncertain
whether all this low-grade ore can be treated
at a profit under existing conditions.
Finances are comfortable :
1925. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Metals ..£212,555 £287,151 £280,799 £222,195
Book debts. . 240,486 402,713 52,335 21,361
Stocks, etc.. . 391,269 353,114 137,579 164,287
Cash, etc. . . 266,685 11,435 81,757
£1,110,986 £1,042,978 £482,148 £489,600
Liabilities 160,625 401,523 61,539 36,093
Surplus £950,361 £641,455 £420,609 £453,507
Copper stocks were taken in at £44 per
ton. In addition there are shares in other
cos. with a book value of £1,450,170, up
£07,262 during the year. Prior to that in-
crease chief holdings w T ere as follows:
Commonwealth Fertilisers .. .. £880,186*
Cuming, Smith, Mt. Lyell (W.A.) . . 400,000
Australian Fertilisers.. .. .. 93,750
Wallaroo-Mount Lyell .. .. 27,150
Metal Manufacturers .. .. .. 196,817
Zinc Producers’ Association.. .. 250
£1,598,103
♦lncludes 283,931 7 p.c. cum. prefs.
What the lot turn in is not disclosed in
the published accounts; Commonwealth Fer-
tilisers paid no ord. div. last year, prices
are easing, and fertiliser cos. generally are
carrying a lot more book debts.
_To finance the extensions to plant, etc.,
257,839 new pound shares were issued shortly
before the close of accounts, making paid
capital £1.537,557 at Sept. 30; there was
£12,443 to come in. The mine figures at
£531,352, and railways, hydro-electric and
other plant at £533.452, or £37,654 more
than at the previous balance.
The market prices the scrip at 21s. 6d.
as against 425. a year ago. Excluding the
mine and plant the net tangible cover is
245. 10d., of which 6s Id. is surplus liquids
and 18s. 9d. shares in other cos.
Important amendments to the State
mining laws are embodied in a bill now
before . the Queensland Parliament. The
object is to encourage the search for payable
gold. Most important is the removal of the
long-standing restriction that no gold-mining
lease could be taken up until a goldfield
had been proclaimed. Thus the intending l lease-
holder will be able to apply for a lease as
soon as he has located his prospect, instead
of having to wait weeks or months. Other
amendments provide for gold-mining areas
being increased from 50 to 100 acres, mineral
leases from 160 to 320 acres and mining
homestead leases from 640 to 12S0 acres. Also
the Minister is to decide terms and condi-
tions when authority to prospect is given, and
on the discovery of gold or other" minerals
may insist that a lease be taken out for
further prospecting. And the amalgamation
of adjoining leases is to be permitted.
A second bill to ratify the agreement
between the Government and the Palmer
Development Go. has been introduced. This
gives the co. full prospecting rights over
573 acres on the Palmer field for five years
rent free, the co. to spend £22,000 on pros-
pecting, etc., during that period. If pay-
able gold is found, it must take up a
lease on the usual terms, and return the
money advanced by the Government. The
State is handing over to the co. a plant left
on its hands and valued at £lOOO, and a
subsidy of £2 per foot for sinking up to 500 ft.
per year will be paid, this being limited to
£5OOO, of which not more than £lOOO is
payable in any one year. The value of the
plant handed over is part of the subsidy.
* # * *
“Old Warden”: A little light has been
thrown on the isolated Batavia River gold-
field, on the Gulf side of Cape York Penin-
sula, by C. C. Morton, geologist of the
Queensland Mines Department. He states
that a defined gutter carrying good values
was located in 1922, and has been worked for
some distance to depths as low as 70 feet.
An exceptionally rich patch of specimen
stone was discovered in an adjacent reef.
The rich patches are very scattered, and as
the reef goes down the situation will become
more difficult for small parties. The broken
nature of the lead hardly justifies systematic
exploration and development. The rush
which took place early this year petered out,
and many were left stranded. There is no
shallow alluvial in sight in the area, and the
wild country is a handicap to prospecting
further afield.
* t- * *
A Sydney group which took a tribute
on the Tan ami G. M. Co.’s property (N.T.)
a couple of months ago now report suffi-
cient water for regular crushing. The inten-
tion is to put through a dump of 1000 tons
stone, bulk sampled to go 2oz. gold per
ton. The gold is claimed to be worth £4 3s.
per ounce.
* * * *
Geologist Gibson in his recent report on
the Princess Royal, Westonia, did not men-
tion the cost of the proposed mill, nor the
fact that a final £5OOO purchase considera-
tion is due on Dec. 31. There is only 6d.
per share at call, and there is not very much
in the till.
* * * *
Westralian Mines Department has granted
a Perth co. three months’ reservation of 250
acres at Southern Cross containing Fraser’s
ore channel. In the early ’nineties Fraser's
line had five batteries operating on it. Hopes
for the future lie in the chances of cross-
cutting disclosing worth-while parallel ore
bodies.
* * * *
Notwithstanding statements to the effect
that Westralian ore can be mined and treated
for 20s. to 30s. per ton, few shows handling
30s. to 40s. ore have declared divs. Wiluna
and North Kalgurli promise to be exceptions
once they get a move on. South Kalgurli’s
figures for last month (8.504 tons, returning
£16,618 for a profit of £1536) give a fair
idea of what may be expected.
* * * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Latest method of extracting gold’ and
platinum from leach sandt (2) What,
values are considered payable? (3) Any
leaches being worked on N.S.W. coast, north
of Sydney? (4) Book dealing with ques-
tion No. 1? —9465.
(1) The sand is beaten through a quarter-
inch screen, then fed into a perforated zinc-
lined hopper, from which it is washed down
table about 14ft. long fixed at an angle
of 13deg. The table is lined with carpet on
which the concentrates of gold and platinum
collect. From time to time the concentrates
are washed from the carpet, treated with a
solution of washing-soda and caustic-soda
and then run slowly down the table, now
covered with amalgamated copper plates.
The use of the cyanide process has been
suggested. (2) Whether or not the working
of_a deposit will pay depends, among other
things, on the thickness and extent of the
auriferous sand and the thickness of “strip-
ping” above it. (8) Work on the northern
beaches is intermittent; it depends upon the
occurrence of south-east gales to break up
the black sand rock and ‘Concentrate tnc
heavier particles. Rich patches have been
worked at Shaw Bay, Tallow Beach, Seven-
mile Beach, Black Rock Beach and near
Jerusalem Creek and Evans River. (±)
Don’t know any moderate-priced book deal-
ing with the subject.
(1) Main uses of fluorspar? (2) What
is it worth per ton Sydney or Brisbane?
(3) Where could contracts be secured for
supply? —9l.
(1) Used chiefly as a flux in the manu-
facture of steel, and to a limited extent in
other smelting operations, in manufacture of
glass and for enamelling, etc. Transparent
and colorless fluorspar is used in manufac-
ture of special lenses and prisms, but must
be without flaw. (2) and (3) In N. S.
Wales it was mined near Tumbarumba, but
apparently not in recent years. In Queens-
land it is only produced commercially in
the Chillagoe district, and it is suggested
that the Chillagoe Progress Association he
communicated with.
Is Tumbarumba (N.S.W.) district rich
in gold? What chances would a prospector
have of picking up a living there? —99Bs.
The district has been very rich in allu-
vial gold and extensively worked. The bulk
of the suitable ground has been treated by
nozzle-sluicing. Still an experienced pros-
pector might do pretty well with dish and
cradle in the heads of Tumbarumba Creek.
(1) Year of the closing of the Australian
banks and the cause? (2) When did wheat
go to Is. 6d. or thereabouts? (3) Was the
failure of the banks the cause? —155.
(1) 1893; directly, the crash was due to
withdrawal of deposits following on a fall
in wool and other prices producing a loss
of confidence in Australia. (2) No record
of eighteen-penny wheat. The lowest aver-
age for Australian wheat in any year in
last century was 2s. sd. in 1895 ; in 1894,
however, the average London price was
225. lOd. per quarter (eight bushels), or
3d. below the 1595 average. (S’* The low
price in those years was not due to the
bank crashes, but the bank crashes were
due to the same cause as the low price—
that is, low price-levels throughout the world.
Assuming the average of 1870-74 prices to be
1000, then in 1895 the prices of our exports
got down to 666, the lowest ever recorded.
Has the gold standard anything to do with
the present ivorld-wide trade depression? Has
it any bearing on Australian internal affairs?
—93.
The Bulletin thinks so. In this connec-
tion four things of great importance have
happened: (1) the gold output is being
barely maintained; (2) there has been a
great increase in world trade calling for
currency; (3) gold lias been largely with-
drawn from its regular job and locked up
first in the U.S.A. and latterly also in
France; (4) the few Asiatic countries that
held on to silver have turned to gold. In
these circumstances the things are happen-
ing which the bimetallists said would happen;
money (which is gold in the last resort)
is becoming dearer; that means it is buying
more; in other words, commodities are
cheaper. The fact that all kind of commo-
dities are affected —wool, wheat, metals,
cotton, copra, tobacco, coffee, silk, rubber —
suggests a common cause, and one not in
the commodities themselves but in the stan-
dard by which they are measured for value.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Arthur S.: Both are highly speculative;
and there is no open market for either. .. .Veritas:
The shareholders are the little fleas that feed upon the
larger fleas, the lamer fleas being the bondholders....
J.L.G.: Statistical position doesn’t point to an early
improvement in copper... .George W.: (1) If she
received a letter of allotment, she is liable. (2)
Reputable but speculative. (3) There has been great
difficulty in raising the necessary capital... .W.T.C.:
(1) Highly speculative. (2) Weakness. (3) “ ‘Wild
Cat’ Monthly,” 225. 6d. a year. (4) February, 1930.
. ...R.S.Q.: Write to the head office of the bank.
There must be some mistake somewhere. Let us
know the result. ...A.E.P.: (1) Nothing is quite safe,
but this would be as safe as anything. (2) No;
quite impossible... .C.X. : (1) An indifferent gamble.
(2) No regular market; you take what a go-getter
can pick up for y0u....8.5., Singleton: (1) Don’t
know it. (2) Reviewed “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,” July,
1929. The co. guaranteeing the free insurance which
was given away with bonds sold has been put into
compulsory liquidation. (3) You would be paid as
much Australian money as the English money would
buy... .H.H.8.: Ask for paid-up policy or surrender
value, though it might be worth while taking a
chance and continuing if the policy is small. It’s
not hopeless... .E.R.: Liabilities are small. Better
h01d... .L. 8.5.: A sound English co. with capital
and reserves of nearly 15 millions. .. .F.D.N.: Don’t
think there’s great danger; but you’d probably find
most safety in productive land.... J.C.K.: Quite true
that the tariff is unscientific; but imports have
simply got to be stopped. They are still at least
40 per cent, too high. . . .N.E.H. : The future is all
a gamble, with the chances against present rates.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Please Tell Us
Hundreds of people who never took any
interest in economics are beginning now to
want to know what things mean. Inquiries
pour in upon The Bulletin’s Service
Department, and a few of them can be most
suitably dealt with here: —
What is Exchange on laindon?
I am a small storekeeper. A customer,
a new arrival, tendered a £1 English note’.
1 wouldn’t take it. He said it was worth
more than an Australian note. Is that so?
Why? What IS the exchange on London,
and what causes it to move up and down 9
—220.
England buys goods from Australia and
Australia buys goods from England. If the
two lots of goods are of the same value,
then no money has to be shipped between
them. One lot of goods pays for the other :
the bankers in Australia and England
arrange the business at a nominal charge—
just sufficient to cover clerks’ salaries, etc.,
with a trifle over for profit. But if Aus-
tralia imports more than it* exports, then a
demand for money in London springs up
in Australia, and people 'who have to make
payments in London will give more than
20s. in Australia for 20s. in London. The
difference is the exchange. Ordinarily, with
our exports about sufficient to pay our debts
in London, a £1 English note is worth not
quite £1 in Australia: it is worth £1 less
the interest on £1 for, say. two months —
the period during which it would be in
transit to its home. When there is a keen
demand in Australia for money in London
the £1 English will be worth more
than £1 Australian; it will pay a £1 debt
in London, and people will be prepared to
pay more than £1 Australian to buy some-
thing that will pay a £1 debt in London.
From all this it follows that the exchange
rate will move up and down according to
the varying demand for money to make pay-
ments abroad. Thus when we have an enor-
mous value of wool, metals, etc,, to send
away, we shall have so much ihoney in
London that £1 English will not be worth
as much to us as £1 Australian.
Exchange and Wheat.
What did some of the wheatgrowers’ repre-
sentatives at Canberra mean the other day
ivhen they said that with open exchange
there icould he a 20 per cent, gain to them?
—215.
The Australian Governments owe about
30 millions a year in London: this is for
interest and charges. If we don’t pay that
money Australia will be a defaulting coun-
try, and its credit will shrivel up—a very
serious matter, seeing that we owe over
£500,000,000 abroad, that the loans will
have to be renewed, and that if our credit
is poor the rate of interest will go up. So
Governments and banks agreed that the
former must have first call on all Australian
money in London —up to the amount neces-
sary to pay this annual debt. At the same
time, so that as much money as possible
should go through the banks’ hands and
thus be available to the Governments in
London, as many obstacles as possible were
put in the way of money being sent through
channels other than the banks; and an
exchange rate was fixed. What some, people
say is that, if the rate was not thus fixed
or “pegged,” l there would be such Australian
competition for money in London that as
much as £l2O would be paid in Australia
for £lOO in London. Which means that
wheat worth £lOO in London (after paying
all freight charges) might be worth £l2O to
the grower in Australia. At present he is
getting about £lo9—though he probably
doesn’t know it.
How Governments Get Money Abroad.
Our debts abroad arc only payable in gold
— or, of course, goods that can he sold for
gold. Our gold being exhausted, we can pay
oyly in goods. Bui it is the Governments
which owe 30 millions a year, and they don’t
export goods. How do they get hold of that
money to pay their debts with?— 22B.
Brown, Smith and Jones, woolgrowers, are
all Australian income-tax payers. They pay
the Government with cheques drawn on, say,
the National Bank. The National Bank pays
itself with the proceeds of their wool sales
in London. The bank then pays that money
to the Government in London, instead of
paying cash for its clients’ tax-cheques in
Australia. In practice, Australian Govern-
ments, instead of getting from the banks
cash in Australia for all the cheques paid by
the public for taxes and services, accept
some of the money in London, this money
having been paid there for Australian wool,
etc.
Inflation and the Small Shopkeeper.
Would inflation affect me in my small
shop; and how? —273.
Inflation means that w T hat you had to pay
Is. for yesterday w r ill be worth Is. 3d. to-
day, and is likely to be worth Is. 6d. to-
morrow. (Of course things don’t usually
move as quickly as that, especially in the
early stages.) The other way of putting
it is that what you could buy yesterday for
Is. you must pay Is. 3d. for to-day, and
will have to pay Is. 6d. for to-morrow. When
a man comes in to buy two packets of cigar-
ettes you will therefore refuse to supply
him with more than one; for if he gets to-
morrow’s supply to-day you will get only
Is., and to-morrow you would get Is. 3d.
If he cleans out your stock to-day at Is.,
you may have to replace it to-morrow
at Is. 3d. You will not let a man owe you
a farthing; for he will presently pay you
off Avith inflated money. On the other hand,
nobody will give you credit for a farthing.
In a time of inflation nobody can get credit
—except at a prodigious price. If you have
got anything in the savings bank it will
gradually shrink in value: you put in, say,
£lOO when £lOO Australian was worth
approximately £lOO English, and you will
still be paid only £lOO Australian even
though the £ Australian is worth only 2s.
English. Generally, inflation is a debtor's
paradise and a creditor’s hell.
Would a Little Inflation Be Good?
1 am a dried-fruit grower, selling my pro-
duct in England. I can sec that inflation
like they had in Germany would he ruinous;
hut would not moderate inflation help me?
—215.
Admittedly on this point there is a differ-
ence of opinion. Whether a little inflation
would help a few is not the real
question; we must consider the national
effect. Inflation will always help some:
for instance, it enables debtors to escape
their debts. The fact, however, is that
we already are suffering from infla-
tion : that our fl notes are not worth
fl sterling is evidence of it. It seems very
doubtful whether we shall make our posi-
tion good by doing more of the thing that
has made our position bad. And it is not
at all certain that the individual fruitgrower,
selling in England, would gain anything
either. He would not get a farthing a ton
more for his product than he gets now. He
would only seem to get more; that is to
say, he would get more in depreciated cur- .
rency. But as the depreciated currency
would buy less, he would be no better off.
He would only gain if some local costs did
not go up; in other w r ords, if labor, for
instance, was paid only as much in the in-
flated currency as it was previously paid
in the non-inflated currency. In fixed
charges there would no doubt be a saving;
interest on Government bonds, for instance,
would be the same £5 or £0 per cent, no
matter whether the £5 or £6 was worth
what it used to be or not. The great diffi-
culty is how to leave off doing this not very
honest thing once you have started it. If
you are going down hill, you don’t as a
rule make it easier to stop by going a bit
further; and you do make the climb back
longer.
The Pound Sterling.
A cheque is drawn “Pay £lO sterling.” The
Australian hank pays for it 10 Australian
notes. Arc they pounds sterling? What
is a pound sterling? —2o2.
Strictly it appears that the notes are not
sterling. A pound sterling is the standard
English £ —sdwt. 3.27 gr. troy of an alloy
of which 11-12ths is gold. The word
is probably derived from “Easterling” money
—the coins brought to England by “Easter-
lings” .(mostly German and Baltic traders)
700 years or so ago. and greatly esteemed
because of their purity. So they became the
standard; and the word was in time cor-
rupted to “sterling.” (The original “pound”
was a troy pound weight of silver.)
Inflation and Government Stock.
How would inflation affect (1) the holders
of Government stocks, (2) the issuers of
such stocks? —0932.
(1 and 2) Australian holders, paid their
interest in Australian notes, would still get
the old rate, though its purchasing power
might be greatly reduced. Also on the loan
falling due for repayment, the Government
could repay with inflated money, thtts rob-
bing the bondholder. But the English and
foreign bondholder would still have to ba
paid in gold ; and there could be no robbery
there.
The Farmer and the Tariff
Under some such title the Sydney Cham-
ber of Commerce has made one of its natural
attacks oh the Australian tariff and Austra-
lian manufacturers, with special reference
this time to manufacturers of agricultural
implements—natural attacks, because the
Chamber is mainly composed of shipping
agents, indent agents and other commission
chasers who exist largely on imports, and get
no percentages on goods manufactured in
Australia. How could they have any love
for a system under which a manufacturer
in this country sends his goods direct from
the factory to the farmer without any assist-
ance from the city commission shark? In
.particular, how could they but dislike the
makers of farm implements who have made
such a conspicuous success of the factory-
to-farm idea?
Part of the Chamber’s attack is devoted
to proving that the tariff on farm imple-
ments is too high. In these times of great
and growing unemployment most Australians
will consider a tariff too low T if it does not
exclude importations of machinery which
can be made equally well at home. The
Chamber does not mention that farm imple-
ments are but lightly taxed at the Customs
House. As a matter of fact, the duties
range from 5 per cent, to 45 per cent., and
the average paid on all the importations
in a normal year is less than 30 per cent.
The local manufacture of farm implements
in normal times employs 5700 Australian
artisans. If these implements were imported
the same number of artisans would be needed,
but they would be citizens of the United
States —a country which has a tariff of
sixteenpence per bushel against Australian
wheat. The same country produced Abra-
ham Lincoln, who said: “If we manufacture
we have the goods, and the money stays in
our country; if we import we get the goods
but the foreigner gets the money.”
The Sydney Chamber of Commerce agents
say: “The Canadian farmer is treated by
his tariff as an important person, someone
to be considered as a wealth-producer. The
machinery he requires to operate his farm
is admitted free of duty” The Cham-
ber is not up to date with its facts. The
Bennett Government in Canada has imposed
a duty of 25 per cent, ad val. on farm im-
plements. In effect, it has decided to make
the Canadian farmer a still more important
person, economically speaking—one who will
spend his money in his own country, with
those people who in their turn are the con-
sumers of what the farmer produces. Canada
has listened to the teaching of Abraham
Lincoln, but the Sydney Chamber of Com-
merce agents still cling to the doctrine of
Cobden.
The Chamber is especially unfortunate
in referring to the binder, because the storv
of the reaper and binder is one of the best
examples of the value of Protection to the
Australian farmer. In 1920 the Federal
Government realised that the farmers were
being exploited. The duty on the binder was
then merely a revenue duty of 10 per cent.,
but the cash price of the Oft. machine was
£9B. Manifestly the importer was profiteer-
ing grossly. The Government therefore
approached local manufacturers and offered
a duty of 45 per cent. As soon as this be-
came public the importers raised the price
to £125, presumably in the belief that the
machine could not be made here. How-
ever, local manufacture commenced in 1921,
and immediately the importer’s price began
to fall, until to-day it is down to £7l, being
a reduction of £54, or over 43 per cent. The
Australian maker’s price is still lower, being
£6B ss. (The prices quoted are for Mel-
bourne delivery.) Incidentally, . the im-
porter's price in Maoriland to-day is £6S os.,
thus showing that the Australian farmer
who is content to use an Australian-made
machine can obtain it just as cheaply as
the Maoriland farmer, who still imports this
item duty free. This is a very clear-cut
instance of the value to the Australian
farmer of Protection and local manufacture.
The Australian manufacturers .of farm
implements are proud of several things. One
is the quality of the implements produced.
The farmers throughout the length and
breadth of this continent know. that the
name of one of the leading Australian makers
stamped on an implement is the best guar-
antee that it will do the job it is made for.
and do it for many years.
Another source of pride to the Austra-
lian manufacturers lies in the fact that Aus-
tralian farmers are not penalised in price
by having to purchase these Australian-made
implements. With few exceptions, the Aus-
tralian farmer can buy the Australian-made
implements cheaper than the farmer of any
other country can buy the tools made in his
own homeland. Even the farmers in U.S.A.
and Canada are no exception in this regard.
Australian farm implements, which have
to work in hard soil and amongst stumps
and roots, are built to suit the conditions ;
they are consequently the heaviest, and
the strongest in the world. The lighter
type of implements used in prairie condi-
tions are of no use here.
There is no sense in comparing the price
of a cultivator weighing scwt. with another
which weighs lOcwt., but we do get a sen-
sible comparison when we find out the. price
per pound in each case. The implements
that are lowest in pence per pound are the
cheapest, and by this method we are able to
show that the Australian farmer has the
advantage over primary producers in all
other countries.
The following table deals with harvesters,
headers, mouldboard ploughs, disc ploughs,
cultivators and harrows, and in almost every
qase the advantage is in favor of Australia:
PRICE OF FARM IMPLEMENTS ON A PER LB,
BASIS.
In America. In Australia.
Price Price
per lb., per )b.
Pence. Pence.
American power take-
off harvester-
thresher, with
bagging attachment 8.5
American power take-
off harvester-
thresher, with grain
tank . . .. 8.4
American tractor
mouldboard plough,
12in., 2-furrow .. 8.4
American tractor
mouldboard plough,
12in., 3-furrow .. 7.7
American tractor
disc plough, power
lift, 4-disc . . .. 6.7
American tractor
disc plough, power
lift, 6-dise .. .. 6.9
American harrow
plough, with 12
discs, cuts 6ft. .. 6.3
American cultivator,
15 stiff teeth, 114 ft. 6.3
American cultivator,
17 stiff teeth, 12ft. 6.6
American leverless
tractor disc harrow,
40 discs .. . . 6.5
Australian stripper
harvester, Bft. .. 7.2
Australian stripper
harvester, 10ft. .. 7.6
Australian header-
harvester, Bft. . . 8.7
Australian header-
harvester, 10ft. .. 9.7
Australian stump-jump
mouldboard plough,
4- . . . . 7.4
Australian stump-jump
mouldboard plough,
5- . . . . 7.6
Australian stump-jump
disc plough, 5-furrow 4.8
Australian stump-jump
disc plough, 6-furrow 5.4
Australian disc harrow,
with 12 discs, cuts
6ft 6.4
Australian high-wheel
rigid tine cultivator,
12-tine . . . . 5.3
Australian high-wheel
rigid tine cultivator,
16-tine . . .. 5.5
Australian tractor disc
harrow, 24-disc . . 6.4
The net cash prices to the farmer are used in
this comparison in both cases, and in each case
delivery is at the factory.
Australian farmers have always given
splendid support to Australian factories
producing farm implements. They realise,
the many advantages of the factory on the
spot. Spare parts are quickly available. The
services of expert factory mechanics can be
obtained equally quickly. New implements,
mostly the invention of Australian farmers,
are made and tested without unnecessary
delay. In many other ways there is a gain
in having the factory near the farm, not the
least being the fact that the factory-hands
are the farmers’ best customers and the con-
sumers of all he produces. When on top
of this it is realised that the Australian fac-
tories supply the farmer more cheaply with
implements than in any other country in
the world, it is not surprising that with very
few exceptions Australian farmers see the
wisdom of using none but Australian-made
implements.
A Suggested Commonwealth Lottery
Dear Bulletin, — Now that the Common-
wealth has legalised Tatt.’s—so far, at any
rate, as legalisation is in its hands—why
not capitalise the Australian gambling in-
stinct, and encourage the small man to
invest in a Commonwealth loan? There are
thousands with ten pounds who would not
invest for a return of 11s. 9d. per annum,
thinking it not w’ortli while, but at least
a million could be raised in ten groups of
10,000 bonds at £lO each. The interest on
each group of ten-year 5f per cent, bonds
would be £2875 half-yearly. Let this be
pooled and drawn for every six months, with
£5OO first, £2OO second, £lOO third. 10 at £2O.
25 at £l5. 20 at £lO, 40 at £5, 50 at £2 and
3000 at £l, making 1148 prizes, approxi-
mately one prize in every nine bonds; or
the 25 at £l5 could be omitted, leaving
£875 from each group to defray expenses,
or go to the hospitals. This would be a
ten-year consultation with the possibility of
gaining £lO.OOO in ten years for the ‘out-
lay of £lO. and with the chance of selling
out at any time at a premium.—Yours etc.,
J. T. D. ‘
And Still We Must Grow More Wheat.
It is becoming more evident every day
that one of the best turns the Federal Senate
ever did this country was the squelching of
the Scullin j Government’s blind wlieat-
marketing scheme, which, without making
any provision for finding the money,, was
to guarantee the farmers 4s. a bushel for
tlieir wheat, the bulk of this to be sold
abroad at world’s parity. A fair idea of
the deficiency which the country would have
had to make good can be obtained from
the fact that last week, owing chiefly to
heavy sales on long credit by America to
Italy, Canadian wheat fell to 60 cents (2s.
6d.) a bushel, the lowest recorded in the
history of the Dominion wheat-growing in-
dustry. Even in Chicago, where the Italian
deal bulled the market temporarily, top price
quoted was 73 cents (3s. Old.).
Our trouble, of course, is that we simply
have to produce something or go broke: and,
apart from wool, what else can we produce
in large quantity? The idea that wheat has
suffered far more than other things is quite
wrong, too. Even some agricultural products
have suffered much more than wheat. Eye is
a great crop in the U.S.A.; and it is worth
only about 40 p.c. of what it was a year
ago. A comparative list drawn up at Chicago,
the principal grain and livestock market in
the U.S.A., at the end of Sept, was as fol-
lows :
1930. 1929.
Wheat .. .. .. $0.74J $1.28 J
Corn .821 ,99-i
Oats .. .. .. .35 .521
Rye .43J 1.02|
Hogs, bulk of sales . . 8.25- 9.80 9.00-10.60
Bulk of beef cattle . . 10.00-12.00 12.00-14.50
Lambs 7.25- 7.50 12.00-12.50
And New York prices for other lines at
the same dates were :■ —
1930. 1929.
Cotton, per lb. .. .. ~ $0.1025 $0.1885
Flour .. .. .. .. 4.75 6.75
Sugar, raw, less duty, cwt. .. 1.10 2.30
So we find that during the 12 months, on
these American markets, wheat fell only
42 p.c. as against 58 p.c. for rye, 46 p.c.
for cotton and 52 p.c. for sugar.
The job ahead of us still is to grow more
wheat. But unless we do something to
encourage the farmer it certainly will not
be done, nor can we reasonably expect it
to be done.
The Wool Market
Bradford, which has been in a pessimistic
mood for some time past, has been so far com-
paratively active at the wool sales this sea-
son. How much of this has been due to
determined French and Japanese buying of
the good top-making sorts is not certain, but
there are indications that the trade in top-
making, spinning and manufacturing has
notably improved in Yorkshire since the sales
began in October. Good wools are so cheap)
now that the Yorkshireman is coming back
into a market in which he considers he call
afford to buy for his purpose. He never had
much time for the fancy prices given by some
of the Continentals a year or two ago, but
with first-class combings round about 24d.
per pound he has awakened to his oppor-
tunity. Considering that Yorkshire is Aus-
tralia’s bulk buyer when all is said and
done, that is all to the good.
Australia’s Marine Industries
Yet another of the many firms which
have been formed, during the past 50 years
at least, to exploit the riches of the Barrier
Reef has put up the shutters. This is the
Barrier Reef Trading Co., which is to be
wound up on the application of its bankers.
The Reef itself is hardly at fault, for it
teems with splendid fish and numerous
turtle: both the edible and the tortoise-shell
variety are everywhere. By-products are
plentiful, and even beche-de-mer is still to
oe found in quantity.
Many of the manufactured goods turned
out by this and other companies, such as
canned fish and turtle, and turtle soup, have
proved of excellent quality, while little
labor and no particularly costly processes
have been necessary. There should, then, be an
honest inquiry by the Government as to the
causes of this failure. The brick most often
heaved is aimed at the Australian public’s
alleged indifference to Australian products.
It is doubtful whether that charge can now
be sustained ; certainly there is a very large
public in Australia keen on Australian pro-
ducts. The danger is that the old excuse
may be used to cloak other deficiencies, and
we should know what they are.
In spite of the continual boasting of Con-
tinental and American superiority over
Britain in the design and manufacture of
aircraft, instances are constantly recurring
in which the supposedly inferior Briton
has to come to the rescue of his alleged
superiors. A notable case is that of the
much advertised Hornier ’plane, which is
to fly to America shortly. The giant machine
carries 12 English engines of 600h.p. each,
and flew with these to Britain lately. The
’plane’s designer decided to alter the equip-
ment of his machine after the trial flight,
substituting eight 900-li.p. engines for the
original 12. Once more he had to fall back
on Britain to fulfil his requirements, though
the Continent and America are full of aero-
engine builders.
* • * * *
Queensland has embarked on a new branch
of the engineering industry. The manufac-
ture of Diesel engines is now in progress
at Walker’s Foundry at Maryborough under
license from a British firm, and two engines,
one of 200 li.p. and the other of 50 h.p., are
in hand: the job includes the casting of a
flywheel weighing 5 tons 6cwt. It i’s all a
far call from the “fire pistol” of the primi-
tive Australian abo., which exactly embodies
the basic principle of the Diesel —ignition
by means of sudden compression of a gas,
this in the abo.’s case being ordinary ail*.
* * * *
It is a long time since Australia’s once
flourishing horse trade with India and East-
ern Asia has shown such encouraging signs
of revival. Since the beginning of Septem-
ber five ships have lifted full cargoes of
nags, most of them remounts for the Indian
Army, and by Dec. 31 it is expected that
7000 Walers will have gone overseas this
ypar. It is difficult to believe, in the face
of this, that systematic breeding of the right
type of horses would not pay well. Nowa-
days buyers have to comb Australia to get
the type of horse that even 30 years ago
could be bought by the hundred in the
Northern Queensland and Westralian cattle
country, and it is getting increasingly diffi-
cult to fill orders.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Sons o’ Guns”
Criterion “Possessions”
State .. Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The Cingalee”
Comedy “Peg o’ My Heart”
Tivoli “Vanity Fair”
State Movies and Talkies
One of those things no fellow can ever be
expected to understand is why some plays
are staged. A play, like a novel, ought to
present f an original plot or clothe an old
recipe in sparkling dialogue. “Possessions, ’
presented at Sydney Criterion on Saturday
night, does neither. If it were not stated on
the programme that Neil F. Grant was its
father, any hardened playgoer would come to
the conclusion that Stephen Leacock was
indulging in one of his good-humored little
flings at the cliches of the playwright. The
puppets; are a man of humble birth, who
became rich and wangled a knighthood ; his
wife, who conceived a daughter out of wed-
lock early in their marital partnership; the
. naughter (she’s the heroine) ; her lover, an
indubitable hero of melodrama (one of those
Ethlemdellish engineers), and a half-wit earl,
to whom the knight, a most overbearing
person, wishes to marry liis (supposed)
daughter. But the mother of the hero knows
the dark secret, and the mother of the
heroine knows that the mother of the hero
knows that she knows. The knight’s lady,
believing that the secret has been spilled,
which it hasn’t, rushes in upon her husband
with a furious denial, which gives the whole
show away. The knight thereupon loses his
interest in the alliance with the earl, and
the hero and heroine are told to run away
and get married and be blessed to them.
Bright rays in the presentation of a rather
bald and unconvincing narrative are Frank
Bradley’s sturdy characterisation of Sir Wil-
liam Jesmond, Ethel Morrison’s very finished
performance in the part of the hero’s mother,
Mrs. Arnott, and the always reliable Mary
Macgregor’s impersonation of Monica Jes-
mond. Campbell Copelin as the hero, David
Arnott, shows a gift for pawky humor.
The play is preceded by the much-better-
written sketch “ ’Op o’ Me Thumb,” in which
a very bright youngster, Agnes Doyle, gets
a lot of sentiment and humor out of her part
as a little slum-born laundry-worker, and
John Fernside plays up to her nicely as the
prince of her romance, who turns out to be a
navvy. There was a good first-night house
and both plays seemed to please the audience.
* * *
In “Speed and Sparkle” at Sydney Grand
Opera House this week Nat Phillips’s Snap-
shot Revue co. fills - the space between the
overture and the National Anthem with a
numerous and varied collection of more or
less amusing turns. Phillips, as principal
jester, is strenuously aided and abetted by
Stud Foley. Angela Parselles is the pick
of the feminine members of the cast.
* * *
_ If there is a kid in N. S. Wales who can’t
give a life-like imitation of a kookaburra
AGNES DOYLE, who is “’Op o’ Me Thumb” at Sydney Cri.
and name at least 12 of the feathered song-
sters of the bush it isn’t the fault of. the
Gould League, which keeps the memory of
John Gould green and promotes interest in
and affection for the indigenous winged
creatures. The twentieth anniversary of its
foundation was celebrated by a concert at
the Town'Hall last week. It was a remark-
able concert —this Showman hasn’t heard of
anything in the world in the least like it.
There were songs, aboyit birds to such tunes
as “John Peel” and “Simon the Cellarer”—
it seems time the. league conferred a. life
membership ,on some members of that needy,
race the Australian composers—but the star
items of the evening were imitations of bird
calls by school children, in chorus and indi-
vidually. Almost anyone can make a shot
at reproducing the cackle of a kooka, but
these youngsters did Maggie and the seagull
and the owl and the .little chap that calls
“dell-o-eet,” and a dozen other transcriptions,
so accurately that the theory that men
descended from birds made several new con-
verts.
Any child can become a member of the
league by paying a penny and signing a
colored certificate that pledges him or her
to be kind to all save “noxious” birds —a
little loophole that allows one to lay poison
for sparrows that eat the cherries, or biff
* an eagle or a kea with an axe if it attacks
the pet lamb. Altogether it is a most laud-
able movement and one which ought to have
more than the ’600,000 members it has
already enrolled in the senior State.
* ¥ *
There was a vice-regal party at the Play-
box Theatre, Sydney, when Booth Tarking-
ton’s “Seventeen” was produced and the
Crown-street amateurs did the thing well. The
ensemble was a credit to the producer, Moyna
Martin, her debut in this role. Ken Barratt’s
Bill Baxter was an amusing characterisation,
and Lola Pratt, the blonde flapper who kept
the youths of the village from ennui, was
brightly played by Mary Gibbons. Daphne
Kingcott was convincing as Lola’s friend May
Parcher; and Norman Rice, as Johnnie Wat-
son Dutch-uncled liis cobber Bill in a mas-
terly manner. The Baxters, father and mother,
- were invested with the right note of gravity
and parental concern by J. M. C. Boult and
Madge Kirk.
Lingual idioms arise out of common use-
age ; musical idioms are created by coura-
geous composers. Remembering how bewil-
dered he was when he received his first intro-
duction to Wagner per medium of the “Tann-
liauser” overture and how dimly he perceived
the magnificent craftsmanship of Strauss’s
“Elcktra” at a first reading, this Showman
is loath to pass judgment on the choral work,
“Sea Drift,” by Delius, recently given by
the choir and orchestra of Sydney Con. It is
a setting of Walt Whitman’s poignant piece
about a bird that lost its mate. Delius
evidently was deeply moved by the poem—■
its appeal is inescapable—but his transla-
tion from words into tonal harmonies is
difficult to follow. It seems that there is
intended a transition from yearning, through
despair, to resignation, but the terms of
expression are unfamiliar, and only at the
close, on a first hearing, does the composer’s
intention become unmistakable. Richard
McClelland, the vocal soloist, though he sang
very capably, had difficulty in adjusting the
words to the music. Gerald Walenn’s fiddle
and Gladstone Bell’s ’cello, dominating the
orchestra in the Brahms concerto Op. 102,
contributed to the programme a luscious
feast of conventional harmony, and the
“Entrance of the Gods into Valhalla,” from
“The Rhinegold,” admirably played, pro-
vided yet another contrast in style. As a
maker of musical menus Dr. Orchard, the
Con. director, displays a great deal of talent.
* * *
“Sons o’ Guns,” the musical comedy at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, is nearing the end of
its run—it has only a little over a fort-
night to go. On Saturday, December 13, its
place will be taken by “A Night Out,” which
will be played by the present co. with Gus
Bluett, Elsie Prince and Bertha Riccardo. in
the lead. At Christmas Sydney will have
at least two pantos : “Beauty and the Beast”
at the Opera House, and “Puss in Boots” at
the St. James.
# ¥ *
The show of last week in Melbourne was
a sham fight, staged at Mont Albert, more
or less under the auspices of that celebrated
low comedian the
Minister of Defence,
the 24th Battalion,
the 24th Battery of
Field Artillery,
the 10th Field Engi-
neers, the 10th Field
Ambulance and the
3rd Division Signal-
1e r s participating.
The performance
was widely adver-
tised, and there was
an audience of
10,000. The theatre
selected, flanked on
one side by subur-
ban villas and on the
other by a distant
view' of the Dande-
nongs, was emi-
nently adapted for
its purpose, being a
deep basin with
seating and park-
ing accommoda-
tion round its rim
for all Australasia.
As it was only a
mile or so across, the
White Army, which
was defending - Mel-
bourne, and the Red
Army, which was
attacking, fought
their battle on
Waterloo lines,
though with modern
weapons. If the in-
tention was to popu-
larise the new' volun-
tary army with the
small boy it bril-
liantly succeeded. It
is seldom given to
the small boy to be
in a position to ask
a soldier in action
for the next empty
shell from his smoking rifle. From a
spectacular point of view, however, the
show lacked verisimilitude, being not
at all up to the Hollywood stand-
dard; the uproar of battle was mainly left
to the imagination of the onlookers. A
howitzer battery, firing at intervals from
behind a Savings Bank home, complete with
mortgage, was one of the most realistic fea-
tures. The Reds were driven back with great
slaughter in time for the victors, vanquished,
dead and wounded to get home to dinner.
* * *
Melbourne, flocked in its thousands to a
“Wild Nature” exhibition at the Town Hall
last week. One distinguished member of the
Royal Society remarked that he had never
heard of or seen such a show anywhere. One
of the features was gramophone renderings
of abo. music and corroboree noises provided
by that veteran naturalist A. S. Kenyon.
These were obtained by the late Baldwin
Spencer, and as it is desired to keep them
as a permanent record of a race that will
eventually be voiceless, the public is not
likely to hear them more than once in each
generation. Besides fish in tanks, spiders
large enough to tackle a small bird single-
handed, specimens of the Gippsland “croco-
dile” (really a water lizard) and butterflies
of staggering beauty, there was a reconstruc-
tion of the bunyip. It was made from native
descriptions and an aboriginal drawing of
1845, and is probably as exact as some of
the reconstructions of primitive man made
from a couple of teeth and accepted by scien-
tists otherwise not especially gullible. Hard
by the bunyip was a magnificent stuffed
bittern, whose booming note is said to have
started the bunyip legend of a ferocious
animal or spirit, roaming the gullies of the
Dandenongs. Live snakes and a collection
of bottles of snake venom drew’ attention to
the efforts of Dr. Kelleway and others, of
the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute, to dis-
cover a polyvalent serum for snakebite.
There have been several casualties and very
nearly some fatalities amongst the disin-
terested scientists engaged in the investiga-
tion. Presiding over this section was snake-
catcher Tom Eades. the “Pambo” of a thou-
sand snake stories, <■
who has just recov-
ered from a too-inti-
mate encounter with
a brown sna k e.
While abroad with
the A.I.F. Hades
shocked his fellow-
professionals, of Cey-
lon and Egypt by
treating- their stock-
in-trade with non-
chalance. One of the
oddities of the exhi-
bition was a spectral
tarsius, the Bornean
animal claimed by
Prof. Wood-Jones
and others to be
man’s direct ances-
tor. It is about the
size of a rat and
lacks dignity. When
The Bulletin
approached it it was
being surveyed with
intense incredulity
by an eminent
Rotarian.
* *
The Australian
comedy “The Seek-
ers,” produced at
the Kelvin Hall,
Melbourne, by the
Proscenium Club
three times last
week, would have
made a good one-
a c t e r. Unfortu-
nately Mr. A. Dan-
vers Walker decided
that the theme and
his talent were good
enough for a full-
length performance.
Consequently, where-
as. the first act is a
bright spasm of
conventional domestic drama, the second is
simply Gumtree Gully” brought into the
drawing-room, with Mum, Dad, Steve and
tiie rest, of them thinly disguised in city
clothing. The story concerns a Melbourne
citizen who lias left his wife through incom-
patibility. She liked the bright lights of
tlie city, while he hankered after the birds
and the breezes. A widow comes and house-
keeps for him and sets the village gossips
talking. In the last act the play-
wright makes a slight recovery, and the
two principal figures take form and begin to
engage the sympathy of the onlooker, but it
is too late, the ship being already on the
rocks and bumping heavily. The acting of
the Proscenium Club stalwarts was in some
cases good, in others ; bad, and in others
woolly. Kathleen Howell, as Maggie
McDonald, the young widow, and A. J.
Fay, as the husband, were delightfully
natural. Marguerite Cockerton, usually to
be depended oh to keep a late diner thor-
oughly awake, failed to give rhyme or reason
to the part of Helene Pilgrim, the wife.
* *
The new Shavian offensive in Melbourne
was renewed last week with great intensity,
simultaneous attacks being made on two fronts
—no doubt by arrangement between Generals
Clewlow and McMahon. It is refreshing to
find such unanimity amongst the commanders.
The Repertory Society tackled “Arms and
the Man” at the Playhouse, with heroism,
enthusiasm and some talent. Elizabetn
Stawell has a future as an interpreter of
Shaw, provided that Shaw has a future and
that nobody invents a mechanical interpreter
of him in the meantime. The McMahon Play-
ers staged “Pygmalion” satisfactorily at the
Bijou, a large and fashionable audience turn-
ing up to hear Eliza Doolittle say “Bloody.”
Ruby May had charge of that part of the
proceedings and gave an attractive perform-
ance as well. Pirandello’s “Right You Are”
will be the offering on Thursday.
* * *
Those in need of a good cry this week
are recommended to take their lachryma-
tories to Me'lb. Comedy, where Edith Talia-
ferro has turned from the tart scepticism of
“The Road to Rome” to the saccharine sen-
timentality of “Peg o’ My Heart.” Miss
Taliaferro’s transformation from a latitudi-
narian Roman matron to an unsophisticate 1
Irish rose does not do so much violence to
the mature intelligence as might be supposed.
If her tugs at the heartstrings of the audi-
ence are as violent as a citizen starting a
fire alarm, her accent is a pleasure to
listen to. In Reg Wykeham, Maidie Hope,
Noel Boyd, H'. B. Jameson, Leslie Victor
and J. B. Rowe the amiable potboiler has
a better collection of stokers than it deserves.
* * *
Mo has been added to the current bill of
fare at Melb. Tiv., and sundry other com-
edians have dropped into smaller print in
consequence. The rest of the show is up to
the now-established quality, especially the
Fallow twins.
* * *
Nellie Bramley has made her final appear-
ance at Brisbane Royal in “The Van-
tine Affair.” At the Cremorne the Repertory
Society put on “Christine,” a play by Vance
Palmer. The society is offering a prize of
£5O for a play in an Australian setting, and
by an Australian writer. The competition
is to close at the end of March.
A reaction in favor of old-time stuff seems
a likely result of the unexpected success of
“A Runaway Girl” at Adelaide Royal. It
was literally rushed for a week, and had to
be extended. Produced by Wilfred Neill,
with a local cast, Jack Ham as comedian
being perhaps on top, the 30-year-old “Man
from Cook’s” and “Soldiers in the Park” went
as well as ever. As evidence in the same direc-
tion, a “boy prophet” was immediately popu-
lar at the Regent films with an old-fashioned
interlude in which he names articles owned
by members of the audience.
The Palette
Earl Beauchamp, revisiting this land after
many years, was moved to enthusiasm by
the magnificent physique of the young men
and maidens who display their forms on
ANGELA PARSELLES. singer in the “Speed and Sparkle”
revue at Sydney’s Grand Opera House.
Sydney beaches. It isn’t any wonder that
Australia, despite all the handicaps of new-
ness, produces sculptors and modellers whose
work recalls the achievements of the
Mediterranean immortals.. But alas! while
almost all other commodities in the world
are selling for less than - they cost to pro-
duce, bronze and marble are as dear as ever,
and the Australian sculptor, unless, like Ber-
tram Mackennal or the late Web Gilbert, he
has achieved a fashionable vogue in the Old
World, has to use clay or plaster. Hardld
Parker, the Queenslander, whose efforts have
been considered good enough for exhibition
in the Royal Academy and the Paris Salon
and for purchase by the London National
Gallery, is showing at Horderns’ some bronze
and plaster statuettes that, ought to be done
life-size, but can’t be unless some discerning
patron of the arts provides the wherewithal.
The “Snow Maiden,” just commencing to melt
away; “The Suppliant,” whose Hands ifre
oratorical; and “The Forsaken Flower,”
whose attitude expresses dejection and rejec-
tion, are essays in pose, done in plaster, that
deserve a more enduring medium and a muph
larger scale. “Eve,” a bronze statuette, whose
every line is graceful and expressive, woulcl
grace an Australian Pantheon, if such a
thing is ever made possible. Parker has
mastered the technique of both bronze, and
marble. His “Pioneer,” a portrait bust of his
father, and “Narcissus,” “Clare” and
“Charlie,” in a rather coarse-grained ’ Aus-
tralian white marble, have tremendous
vitality. “Iris,” a bust in Greek marble, is
unforgettable, a tour de force in delicate
modelling and expression. There are 70 water-
colors in the show, too, all interesting—but
Parker is first and foremost a sculptor.
Brunton Stephens’s observation that “this
eucalyptered cloisterdom is anything but gay”
is corroborated by many of the etchers who
are hanging transcripts of the Australian
landscape in Farmer’s top-floor gallery in
Sydney. The Australian Painter-Etchers’
Society is showing there a collection of pic-
tures from plates of zinc and copper and
woodcuts, supplemented by a few mezzotints,
aquatints and pencil drawings. The pencil
drawings in every instance are examples of
conscientious and capable draughtsmanship.
Unfortunately, with one or two very sketchy
exceptions, the cucalypts have been done
in metal, and the riant grace of the young
trees has not survived the process. Gnarled
veterans, both sylvan and human, are por-
trayed with much greater fidelity. That the
world is a hard place for painters to live in is
expressed grimly in Squire Morgan’s dry-
point and chalk portraits of the late Henry
Fullwood. Malcolm Osborne, A.R.A., is best
represented by a faithful but unflattering
etched portrait of Nathaniel Sparks. Archi-
tectural subjects, of which there is a plethora,
are in most cases not sufficiently well drawn
to make them interesting. Sydney’s Harbor
Bridge has been the inspiration of many of
the exhibitors, but only J. C. Goodhart, in
“The Colossus,” manages to give an inkling
of the heroic dimensions of the structure. Sid
Long, president of the society/exhibits some
nicely-balanced compositions, and Douglas
Pratt manages in “Darling Point” and “The
Law Offices” to capture some of the spirit
of Sydney. The etchings and aquatints by
Sir Frank Short, R.A., do not add to his
reputation.


fdg
Improved—but fundamentally unchanged
the Chevrolet Six now offers even
greater value value unapproached.
now what you get before you buy
. check the Chevrolet Value Chart
I
c
A
o
r
CLUB SEDAN—This and Club
Tourer, Club Coupe, and Club
Roadster, with 5 or 6 wire wheels,
spares carried in fender wells,
bumpers, and folding trunk rack.
Disc or wood wheels are optional
equipment on Suburban Roadster,
Suburban Sedan, Suburban
Tourer. Ask your dealer for
details of equipment available in
your locality.
Remember—you can choose from the finest
range of graceful body styles in the low-price
field—wire-wheel equipment if you want it
Know that your hard-earned money is buying value, value,
value. Prove it—with the Chevrolet Value Chart. Check
the ten important points of low-price car comparison.
And see the car. Consider the greater beauty that
Chevrolet offers —the dashing smartness of its fine-car
type wire wheels, spares carried in fender wells. You
will find this equipment on the new models of the Club
series. They complete the Chevrolet Six range of models
—the finest choice ever offered in the low-price field.
Have you heard of Chevrolet’s low upkeep? It’s
amazing. Test it. A demonstration run gladly given.
If you wish you can buy on easy G.M.A.C. terms.
Service from authorized Dealers available everywhere.
General Motors (Australia) Pty. Ltd., Brisbane, Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth. “More Wealth for Australia
—More Jobs for Australians.”
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
Metropolitan Distributors:
MOTORS LIMITED, JOHN McGRATH LTD.
Wickham St., Brisbane. 155 Elizabeth St.. Sydney
STOKOE MOTORS PTY. LTD. CITY MOTORS LTD.
559-565 Elizabeth St., Melbourne 95 Waymouth St., Adelaide
SYDNEY ATKINSON MOTORS
41 Pier Street - Perth
•o' hevrol «
Priced Z "* ,
7
s •‘££,''2?" "—■ — .
- —, * **h* ***»»» « 0 , “7 ••. i*-,
<*«* '"■
i? - Ch—: *■"•
S? a tv ,„,~T 7* **»*, **
o
1 --7 ——-
1 *'V o, “ *** *“«i»i??'" , »v 'jlf'
o
; r , ■ —--_ .l.<tl*fen . <tl *fen i
* , —-—_*** *
ne , __ iL^l,
*7+*.
a
s ci —-7!"
Ch Kk , h '
*nd pi . rca *«0« f Qr ~
—7“ “"4 -4T*? «>».«,/
rr ——r“*
o
r ‘*^L. p ***4
1 1 ***-
—. 7 •“■' -< a?ti«s **>«
___ r ** *«» <Vo» A •■ .
-cr;
o
-TTr^^Sst-'
7 *SSS-**
jcl-**.; — —7777
s«»*fe r 77
-TTTr^^i.-
o
o
___ iMi ««: ~~~
*«u.7: /
o
“*»•*;. A,0,0r » *7 r *«*
Mw* «** mo~ ; * tf aW77T: —-__
for A ‘ Citc yn>let2 ~ ofc* for? product
— ***££? n •,**«*» "sy** t S al T e
o
"“"■T.«
sgSSc / - I
D
CHECK THE VALUE CHART
TO-DAY ON A FREE TRIAL RUN
1. Six-cylinder performance.
2. Petrol economy.
3. Smart streamline design.
4. Big-car comfort.
5. Perfect control 4-wheel
brakes.
6. Smoothness and quiet.
7. Safety —angled windscreen ,
foot controlled headlamps.
8. Service everywhere —co«-
venient terms.
9. Big-car features—fuel pump,
air cleaner, complete instru-
ment panel.
10. A General Motors Australian
product.
/CHEVROLET
The Improved
Chevrolet Six


r CHRISTMAS IN SYDNEY
Christmas in Sydney—enchanting things to do and see
on every hand. Christmas at "The Australia”—gay
crowds and brilliant social life, entrancing splendor of
appointment, standards of comfort and luxury most
happily conceived.
ica
the centre of Sydney
w w
fill,
lilt
L LL L
LLL L
L LL [
L LL L
U
B 8
■ I
Early booking is desirable for so delightful a holiday
—especially in view of the new “Room Only ’ Rates—
Single Room from 12/- per day—Double Room from
22/6 per day.
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.”
Capital paid-up,
£422,100.
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH,
SYDNEY.
he
Australia
ABORIGINALITIES
“Frigid” : Round the camp fire talk veered
to tales of the hottest place each had visited.
Old Joe chipped in : “I remember the time
when we were camped near Paroo station.
Why, it was so hot that we used to toast
our bread in the sun, and”—— “Yes, I
know,” interrupted the youngster of the
party, “and you had to use corkscrews to
draw your breath.” Silence.
* * * *
“Ila”: “Dad” Fenton will soon be the
patriarch of Lord Howe Island, where the
Kentia-palms grow. The money received
for exported seeds supplies the little island
paradise with currency. Dad has,been there
over 30 years, and his garden is the joy of
tourists. He is a book of reminiscences of
the good old days when Adams and Eves ran
wild among the palms. The
island used to be a para-
dise for birds, too. Big
white chaps with scarlet
bills as big as domestic
fowls were so tame that
they used to walk down t >
the beach and nose up to
the whalers when they
landed, gazing up with in-
nocent friendliness. They
are extinct now, destroyed
by the rats, which, swim-
ming ashore from ships and
breeding in millions, ate
their eggs. The only
relics of the birds now
extant are a skin in the
Vienna Museum and an-
other in the Liverpool
Museum. One of the Fenton boys is in the
Sydney police force, and another is on the
staff of the Norfolk Island wireless station.
#
“F.R.Z.S.”: Among the denizens of Aus-
tralian beaches is one well known to- all
nature-lovers, but not hitherto correctly clas-
sified or accurately described. The lack of
reliable scientific data concerning its life-
history and seasonal habits is due to certain
paradoxical characteristics that confuse and
baffle observers. For instance, it has pug-
nacious and even vocal proclivities, but these
are exhibited only after decapitation. In
a sense it can only be said to be alive after
it is extinct. In its first few weeks of life
it inhabits vast circular inland lakes and is
formless and amorphous. Abruptly it
assumes cylindrical form, armored all over
with skin harder than steel, save for the
head, which is vulnerable to attack. It is
this vulnerability that leads to its undoing.
Beach habitues, after capturing the creature,
wait a suitable moment, and then pounce
upon it promptly, slip a cast-iron loop over
its head, and wrench the oceinut from the
torso, after which the tender internal parts
ars easily extracted. So much for habits.
Science assigns it to the genus Pota-
ANOTHER WORM TURNS.
MRS. JAW (after giving her husband a piece of her mind for half an hour ): “Henry,
I believe the gas is escaping!”
MR. JAW: “Gawd, what luck!”
STILL LOOKIN’.
“I’m lookin’ for a job, Boss.”
“You lookin’ for a job? Why, you couldn’t shovel boiled rice into a hungry Chinaman!”
bilis; varieties: laga, bitter, pilsena, bockii
and dinneralii. A kindred species is Pota-
bilis drafbeerii, which is prepared for con-
sumption by the use of a small spiral spear.
These creatures abound in summer-time. Both
their contents and their integuments have a
commercial value.
* * * *
“Taltingan” : You can have most sorts of
experiences on Australian railways, though
so far no train has been waylaid by polar
bears, nor has a track been torn up by, dis-
possessed monkeys, as oil-pipe lines’ in
Sumatra are liable to be. The other day
passengers who alighted from the “Trans’
train at Peterborough to continue the journey
to Sydney via Broken Hill had to disembark
in a sandstorm and wander around a
wrecked “goods,” picking up another train on
the Sydney side of the obstruction. All
that had happened was that the “goods”
had run into a sandbank 12ft. long and 2ft.
deep which had formed since the previous
train had gone through. The spot was about
50 miles on the Sydney side of the Darling
at Menindie. The speed with which these
sandhills form in that Darling country is
amazing. Once, driving between Menindie
and Lake Speculation, I came across a
couple of men putting up a six-wire fence.
You wouldn’t think that a six-wire fence
out on the plains would be much of an
obstruction to a sandstorm. Actually, roly-
poly, the vegetable curse which breaks off
close to the ground and rolls over a.nd over
for miles, soon banked up against the wires,
caught the particles of grit flying in a
storm, and, as we came back over the same
track less than three weeks later, we drove
over the still uncompleted fence.
* * * Hi
“Viau”: Bato, my boss copra-cutter, had
given me a scare with alleged symptoms of
dysentery. I felt certain that he was sham-
ming, and a very big' dose of Epsom
salts seemed fitting. He got three glasses
of the mixture out of the beer bottle in
which it was kept, but enjoyment of his
facial contortions was interrupted, another
boy coming in with a badly-gashed shin for
immediate treatment. Bato was quite for-
gotten. The next morning he was not on
line or at the hospital, and none seemed to
know if he had gone off to work or not.
Enlightenment came when I brought the
bottle of salts out of the dark medicine-
room. I had given Bato about 25 ounces
of 20 per cent, lysol solution the night before.
I went without breakfast, kicked the cook-boy
most unjustly, and waited in despair for the
discovery of the corpse. Nothing happened,
so I went looking for it myself. Bato had just
finished his last bag of copra, and hailed me
with a laugh. “He number one this new
fella medicin’,” he said happily. “Sick he
finish true.”
* * * *
“Dr. Mivart” : The cat, like the elephant,
has a stern sense of justice, a retentive
memory and an almost Sicilian capacity for
storing up revenges. Take the case of my cat
No. 347, named by me Aristotle. “Total,”
as junior members of my family called him,
came of a famous mousing strain —by Hen-
gist out of Cleopatra—and he was for this
reason given a post of responsibility in my
laboratory at a time when I was conducting
researches into feline dietetics. His duty of
exterminating rodents that preyed upon my
food samples was performed faithfully and
well, and being well trained and well fed (I
have my own methods) he did not presume
upon his privileges until the day when I
had evolved Diet 347, intended for conval-
escents from dog-bite. The ration included
sardines and chicken, and was intended to
tempt a jaded and enfeebled palate. I was
about to test it on a patient in the cattery
hospital-—Brunhilde, who had been worsted
in an encounter with a mastiff—when Aris-
totle, my back being turned, leaped upon the
glass-topped laboratory table and, to lapse
into the vernacular, scoffed the lot. He stood
there as I approached, smiling amiably, and
quite unafraid. As a penalty I put him on
Diet 36 (punishment) for a week. He con-
tinued to do his duty till the eve of the
seventh day when—well, when I arrived in
the laboratory in the morning there were
everywhere evidences of a mouse saturnalia.
Nine new diets had been destroyed by mice—
I knew their dentistry. Aristotle stood
calmly amid the carnage. With one forepaw
he pointed to a tag he had fossicked from
a shelf; with the other he pointed to his
own identification disc. Both bore the. same
number —347. Then I understood. Aristotle
had thought that because I numbered the
convalescent diet 347 I intended it for him,
and he regarded his punishment as unjust.
*'* * *
“Morimoto”: What is the nearest plant in
reality to Jack’s beanstalk? I nominate
the Malacca bamboo. When the last wet
season started, a specimen in my back
garden or jungle thought nothing of
putting on two and a half feet in
24 hours. I found by measurement that one
plant had added 100 feet to its stature in
three months. In ascending Merapi, a
volcanic mountain in East Java —its crater
contains boiling sulphurous water —our
coolies, to provide us with a water supply,
cut down a giant stick of bamboo and cut
it into sections from which furphys were
improvised. Half a dozen of them held
enough to keep seven of us from thirst for
two days.
AN AVERAGE BLOKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“All wisdom ain’t in books,” said Joe, “for
. I can’t read a line ;
Ain’t never ’ad a charnce to learn in this
rough life o’ mine.
I never went to school at all —me signacher’s
a stroke;
But, after all, I ’ardly care—I’m jist an
av’rage bloke.
“The sun comes up on me the same as it
comes up on you,
An’ though the days is often long I some’ow
muddle through.
An’, jist because me brains ain’t good, big
thoughts don’t trouble me—
I never arsk the w’y an’ wot of everythink
I see.
“Some coves are narks —I leave ’em go; I
s’pose they’re born like that •
If you ’avc much to do with ’em you’ll only
flog the cat;
An’ pickin’ ’em is not a thing that you will
learn in books.
Instink, ole man, is wot I use ter get a line
on crooks.
“An’ after all the wisest chap that ever
walked the earth,
Though ’e may puzzle over things that dog
us from our birth,
Ain’t learned enough to know wot comes
w’en us poor sinners croak.
’E worries —but I don’t—because I’m jist
an’ av’rage bloke.”
VICTORIA.
P.T.F.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex*
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
7/ie Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
- Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety F-usa
Detonators
Cartridges
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
The World’s largest Commercial Forestry Co.
Subscribed Share Capital £240,619
Bonds Subscribed exceed £3,400,000
Funds lodged with Trustees exceed £528,671
(Including over £283,237 invested in Australian Government Securities.)
Area planted Approx. 120,000 acres
Bankers Bank of New Zealand and their Agents
Head Office ...... Kembi* Building, Margaret Street, Sydney
Sole Brokers Smith Wylie & Co., Ltd.** V
Branches: Throughout Australia, New Zealand and the Federated Malay States. London, Bombay,
Java, Hong Kong and Shanghai........
RUPTURE/
SUFFERER! /
Know security of body and peace
of mind by wearing Denyer’s
Elastic Truss—the truss with the
patent water pad. Gives comfort,
freedom and effective support.
Trusses also made specially to order.
ORDER AT HOME.
Write now for Free Rupture Pam-
,phlet and Self-measuring Form.
' ,j. ' 'S'ent in plain envelope.
Single 30/- Double 40/-
DENYER BROS.,
Dept. 1, 267 George Street,
Sydney.
Wang’: Murphy’s poultry farm was on
the edge of the township, and he began to
notice a diminution in the flocks he was
fattening for the Christmas market. One
afternoon he tore into Ryan’s pub, his face
blazing. “Ye dhirty crawlin’ thafe,” lie roared
at Ryan; “gimme back those turkeys ye’ve
shtole from me or I’ll have ye arristed, be th’
saints, I will.” “Wliat th’ divil’s wrong wid
ye, ye madman?” retorted Ryan. “What d'ye
mean be accusin’ me of slitalin’ yer damn
turkeys? I ain’t never seen as much of a
feather of wan of thim.” “Thin Hogan
must be a liar,” replied Murphy. “ITe
say t’ me an hour ago, he say, ‘Ye ought t'
go up t’ Ryan’s an’ see th’ lov’ly gobblers
he have there.’ ” Ryan burst out laughing,
and turned to the shelf behind the bar.
“Shure, I have, too,” ne answered, planking
a stemmed glass on the counter —“pure
COMPLIMENTS ALL ROUND.
“After what I’ve seen of girls, I’ll be hanged if ever I
get married.”
“Well, I’ve no doubt that will be very fortunate for
your wife.”
crystal goblets they are, or th’ chap what
sold thim to me’s a liar.”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Melbourne Zoo has lost its oldest
inhabitant. He was a Himalayan bear, and
although of a mature age when he arrived,
was a resident for 30 years. A post-
mortem disclosed that he enjoyed per-
fect health to the end, the cause of his
OUT BOGGAWARRA WAY.
“How’s things out your way, Daylight? Plenty dead cattle about, I suppose?”
“Too right, Boss. Plurry place alive wi' dead bullicks.”
demise being unknown. It may be guessed
that it was due to ingrowing surliness and
home-sickness. He was the worst-tempered
inmate Director Wilkie had.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Approached over the heaving
surges of the Indian Ocean on a still day,
Cocos atoll presents an unforgettable spec-
tacle. It is like a green
mirror framed in gold and
dropped mysteriously into
the midst of a turbulent
ocean. The frame of the
mirror is little more than
a man’s height above higb-
water mark and may dis-
appear altogether in a
cyclone, when the houses
appear to be standing on
their legs in a bottomless
waste of waters. The
lagoon swarms with fish,
including a gigantic skate
and a swordfish capable of
transfixing with its snout a
hefty piece of timber.
Millions of parrot-fish and
sea-slugs are engaged on
the barrier passing the
coral through their bodies
to increase the Ross domi-
nions. The air and sea
constantly bring additions
to the flora and fauna.
Man’s contributions have
mainly been obnoxious
ones, such as rats, fleas
and cockroaches. One of
the most inexplicable arri-
vals was a war canoe, sub-
sequently proved to be
indubitable Maori. Rain
has a habit of falling from
a cloudless sky and there
are rocks which give forth
a musical note. The
Malays say they are spirit
voices luring children over
the barrier edge. Darwin
visited the group in 1836,
and cyclones visited it in
1862. ’76, ’93. 1902 and
1910. in each case devas-
tating the cocoanut plan-
tations on which the
islanders depend. The re-
mains of the Emden have
long since followed the
bones of previous wrecks,
of which Cocos has had an extraordinary
number.
* * * He
“Ginger” : Apart from its hardness—and
competent authorities state Hell’s pavements
are blocked with it—gidya has another
detestable feature which prevents it being
used in furniture, as its beautiful grain and
lustre otherwise entitle it to be. No sawyer
will handle gidya except at a prohibitive cost.
Gidya is so slow of growth that it collects
pebbles, sand and other matter in its cre-
vices and rough bark. Slowly it folds over
them and takes them unto itself. A gidya
log with an unblemished face may be a
hidden mine of destruction. An inch or so
below the surface there may be a flint pebble
as big as the top joint of a man’s thumb.
When the circular-saw hits that the saw-
doctor has to get ready to perform major
operations.
* * ■ * *
“Greenstone”: Henare, Wirimu and Timi
weren’t always such good pals with the
pakelia as they are nowadays, There’s a
very, very old lady who lives at Opotiki, not
far from Auckland—she recently celebrated
her 103rd birthday—who remembers the time
when the G. of E. church in the hamlet was
the refuge of the inhabitants when the Hau-
Haus were on the war-path, and when its
IDENTIFIED AT LAST.
YOUNG BUSHMAN: “Dead slow in this joint, ain’t they?”
OLD MAN: “Cripes, pairs; this must be th’ secret service they useter talk about when
the war was on.”
stout walls were loopholed and a moat sur-
rounded it. In those days the padre of the
district was a missionary named Volkner, a
valiant preacher of the Word, who had a
gift for stroking the Maoris the wrong way.
Finally he did something that made them
hopping mad —disregarded a tapu or some-
thing of that sort —and one bright summer’s
morning at eleven, when the congregation
was assembled to hear the Rev. Volkner dis-
course, in strode Kereopa, a chief of the
Hau-llaus, with a newly-severed head in
his hand. It was the head of the missionary.
Gravely Kereopa mounted the pulpit stairs;
solemnly he planted on the pulpit-rail the
grisly relic, and then, just as if he were at
a tangi, he delivered an oration in which the
virtues and the faults of the deceased were
very eloquently set forth'. The peroration dis-
closed, to those who understood the Maori
tongue, that as his faults outweighed his
merits (from a Hau-llau standpoint)
Volkner had been hanged on the tallest tree,
and the pakehas assembled were adjured to
watch their steps and profit by a very bad
example. The Hau-H’aus were wiped out by
the dominant race, but there’s a dark-brown
stain on the pulpit of St. Stephen’s, Opotiki,
that bears mute testimony to the truth of the
old lady’s story.
* * *
“Up North” There’s a story of heroism
connected with the machine-gun-like wounds
deep in the breasts and back of a Yacamul
woman, the wife of a New Guinea Chinaman.
1 l’er souvenirs are from the teeth of a croco-
dile, and her escape was due to the devotion
of her husband, Yip Gate, lie had then, and
still has for all I know, a trade store at
Eitape. Mandated Territory. He bought his
wife, tlie belle of her village, from the Yaca-
mul tribe for £2O. In 1024 he heard a
scream from the creek, and running down
found his wife fast within the jaws of a
crocodile. As the brute floundered towards
deep water, Yip leapt in ahead of him and,
shrieking madly, flung water in armfuls
against its snout, then beat against its eyes
with the flat of his hands. The croc, loosed
its prey, and Yip got his wife ashore. Not the
first of iiis race to prove himself a brave man.
si! * *
“Fitzwilliam” : Whether sea-water can be
assimilated by the human stomach or not:
(B. 5/11/’3O) depends on the conditions
under which it is drunk. If they in-
clude a tropical climate and hard physical
exercise, there is no doubt that the drink
would be a useful one. Under those con-
ditions, a man sweats generously, and as
sweat is saline the exuded salts have to be
made up somehow, and drinking salt water is
as good a way as any other. As a matter
of fact, when a man has sweated vigorously
fresh water may be the worst thing he can
drink, not owing to the effect of cold liquid
on a hot stomach, as most people imagine,
but because it sets up the wrong sort of
chemical reaction. The medical officer of a
Lancashire coalpit, reputed to be the hot-
test place in England, recently made some
experiments in this direction. The miners
work over a mile underground, and sweat
quarts—one man has been known to lose
181 b. in a shift. It was found that water-
drinking produced violent attacks of cramp.
The men were offered a solution of salt
about the composition of sweat, which they
took to at once. It is now their regular
drink while underground, with the result
that there is no more cramp and far less
fatigue. Anyone who has lived'in a mining
district knows the miners’ insatiable appe-
tite for salt meats and fish —also beer,
which contains natural salts, apart from
what may be added by an unscrupulous pub-
lican.
THE TRIAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘ You know that colt o’ mine, me thorough-
bred?”
The old man said.
“I took im out and tried ’im yesterday
With that black mare o’ Bill’s, and though
I knoo
E d beat er, struth, she never ’ad a say!
’E fairly flew.
“’E run the mile in evens. Pretty slow?
Now, ’arf a mo!
A hen you sit down an’ work the business
out—
I never ’ad a whip, or even ’ooks —
You’ll savvy why, without a bit o’ doubt,
’E’ll trick the books.
“You see, I never used no racin’ pad.
I wish I ’ad ;
For then I would ’ave known just wot was
wot.
Me old stock saddle’s nearly ’alf a ton ;
That greenhide bridle weighs a flamin’ lot;
But still ’e won.
“I wore me cowyard boots, an’ you know
well
They’re thick as ’ell.
I ’ad me pipe an’ alf a plug of weed.
Me trouser pockets full of nails an’ things ;
But all that weight ’e carted in the lead,
Like ’e ’ad wings.
“An’ so, I reckon, an’ I never skite,
’E’s pretty right.
If ’e could win with all that ’eavy gear,
An’ pull up full o’ rnnnin, well, o’ course
’E’ll be the best that's ever been round ’ere.
A wonder ’orse!”
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1883. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ityan, Esq. :
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland 'andj,,Northern ' Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
BanK offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
for Reliability and Long Life.
- v Australasian Office —-
TUDOR vypCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
gfd
LEIPZIG SPRING
TRADE FAIR, 1931
gfd
(GERMANY).
Incorporating Great Engineering Fair until March 11.
The Greatest Trade Exhibition in the World.
Despite., the heavy and almost impossible Australian tariff legislation, Australian
business men and oversea buyers can profitably visit .the 1931 Spring Fair at
Leipzig. , - '
German manufacturers have marked thjeir gqods at such prices as to make
all purchases at the Spring Fair sell at a profit.
This means that the middleman is eliminated, and you deal direct with the
manufacturer. , . .
The Great Spring Fair begins on MARCH 1, 1931.; ,
INQUIRIES INVITED. All Official Data, Transport Concessions, Hotel Accom-
modation, Rail Service, etc., including Letters of Introduction, will be gladly
given—free‘of cost. L. .1.. , r .,, : c ,
-■ - Authorised Representatives:
LARS G. BRUNDAHL,
121 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
(’Phones: 84006 and. MW2201)
C. N. KEPPEL,
Box 585 D, G.P.0., Melbourne, Vic
SMOKE-OH!
Many people consider that industry would
not be in such low water if the unions re-
frained from pulling out the wage-plugs.
A VERY GOOD REASON.
KITTY: “Really, I had to push my way out of the car. I’m glad
I never cross my legs in a tram.”
KATTY: “No, that’s right. I can’t afford all-silk stockings now,
either.”
The old complaint was that Australia
House officials did nothing to justify their
existence. Now most of them are going to
have their work cut out.
* *
POWER OF THE STUNT.
Police news, “Daily Stunt,” Mon.: —
P.-C. Dogboddie stated that he had found accused
standing outside the fence of the Zoological Gardens,
excitedly seeking to draw attention to..the attempts
of two non-existent liohs to climb over the fence.
Accused Was using Obscene language, and insisting
that one of the escaping lions was wearing a top-
hat and the other a cerise swimming suit.
From “Pro Bono Publico” to Editor
“Daily Stunt,” Tues.—-
I read yesterday in your great paper that a man
was fined £2 for drawing attention to two lions
who were endeavoring to escape from ; the Zoo. So
much for our vaunted British justice! The danger
of an escape of wild animals from our Zoo is ‘ self-
evident. I strongly urge, through the widely-read
columns of your valuable and widely circulating
journal, that the Zoo be closed to the general public
until all cages and enclosures have been carefully
examined by an independent committee of architects,
and strengthened where necessary.
Memo, from Managing* Editor of “Daily
Stunt” to News Editor, Wed.: —
Have raised the screw of reporter who wrote that
“Pro Bono Publico” letter. It was admirable. Start
front-page stunt “Is the Zoo Safe?” and continue
till notified to the contrary.
Three-column main page splash, “Daily
Stunt,” Thurs.: —
IS THE ZOO SAFE?
Animals Could Easily Escape, say Prominent
Architects.
Grave doubts concerning the safety of the Zoo
were expressed yesterday ' by prominent city . archi-
tects.... View freely expressed that many ..animals
—more particularly the lions, bears and tigers—
would experience little difficulty in escaping....
Horrors.... Little children mangled.... Desolated
homes.... Fault of spineless Government.
Main page, “Daily Stunt,” Friday:—
ZOO AUTHORITIES CONTEMPTUOUS OF PUBLIC
DANGER.
Hostility to “Daily Stunt’s” Campaign for a Sale
Zoo.
That the public can expect no help from the
authorities in the campaign for a safe Zoo was made
clear yesterday when a representative of the “Daily
Stunt” interviewed the curator of the Zoological
Gardens. “The Zoo is quite safe,” the curator had
the effrontery to assert. “The possibility of any
animal escaping is too
remote to be worth con-
sidering. We certainly
do not intend to take
any steps to minimise
risks that do not exist.”
.... Callous apathy of
the official mind to
safety of the public
Cynical disregard....
Gross' neglect of duty....
An /Empire' matter.
Main page, “Daily
Stunt,” , Sat.: —-
FAMOUS ARCHITECT
TO SAVE ZOO!
Plans Being Prepared
for Submission to [ the
- r • Government.
“Plans which I. am
. now, preparing for a safe
Zoo .will. -be , submitted
to the Government at
an early date',” 'says .Mr,
Thomas B. Dudde, the
eminent young archi-
tect, whose specifications
. for a new . type' of
worker’s house at. £5OOO
per house were unani-
mously rejected by the
Government. ‘ ‘N eedless
to say, I am in entire
accord with the ‘Daily
Stunt’s’ public-spirited
campaign for the restora-
tion of our shamefully
neglected and hideously
unsafe Zoological 'Gar-
dens” ....
Main page, “Daily
Stunt*’’-Mon.-:
ZOO ESCAPES I HAVE
KNOWN—
Hair-raising Reminiscen-
ces by World Traveller.
A world traveller,- who
prefers to remain anony-
mous, has written this
exclusive article for the
“Daily Stunt,” describing
various escapes of wild
animals from zoos which
he has personally wit-
nessed at various times
and places. Coming at
: a s time ■ when this paper is vigorously urging the
authorities to, etc.
Memo from Managing Editor “Daily Stunt”
to News Editor. Tues. :
Cut out Zoo stunt. Nothing more in it. See
me 11 a.m. about new one
Three-column main-page splash, “Daily
Stunt,” Tues: —
POISON IN THE MILK JUG!
“Daily Stunt” Points Accusing Finger at City’s Milk
Supply.
Fully alive to its responsibilities as guardian of
the public welfare, the “Daily Stunt” hastens to
warn the authorities, so long blind :to this deadly
menace to the community’s health.... Little
children done to death Public authorities’ gross
dereliction of duty.... Slaughter of innocents....
Thousands affected.
Windsor.
‘‘Much damage was caused by the red rain that
fell in Vic. on Monday.”— “Herald.”
And more is expected from the Red reign
in N.S.W.
* H-
THE INNOVATOR.
The gallery upon him froicncd;
His language fairly scattered sparks.
A midget links he played around
Making the while full-sized remarks!
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
“Isn’t Alma’s mother an awful size?”
“Yes. Reggie told me she meant to be twins, but was never divided.”
“She is a number of the Mosman younger set.”
— “Sun.”
A host in herself, in fact.
" THE RUIN OF REGINALD.
A Novel in the Post-Inflation Style.
Reginald Goof was toiling, toiling, a light
of hope in'his eye. Gwladys had promised
j to-be, his as soon as he had
7s.- 6d., and- hi's -calculations
suggested that the time was
near.
In one hand was a foot-'
, rule: before - him was a
mountain of currency repre-
senting his fortune. He was
measuring its size and cal-
culating the cubic contents.
After some swift figuring he
referred to the “Morning
Blither.” Joy! The latest
■quotation was a cubic yard
of fivers to the farthing. He
had no less than 7s. 9^d.
. No.w haste—haste to the
registry.
The pantechnicon was
soon at the kerb. The bales
of notes - were piled inside.
Ten minutes later he drove
up to the path to Gwladys’s
house. And then —despair !
His rival. Vernon Verdigris,
was with Gwladys; they
were examining the “Even-
ing Howl.” As Reginald
approached Vernon read out
the . latest quote. Fivers had
gone to 6.008 cubic yards to
■ the- farthing. “They are
expected to touch 100 yards
before the Stock Exchange
closes,” wrote the “Howl’s”
city editor.
With a curse Reginald
crept back to the pantech-
nicon, a. ruined man.
Piecrust.
In political law the bur-
den of spoof is on the
M.L.A.
* * ’
Appropriate Biblical text
for sermon on Lang’s new
M’s.L.C.: “And it came to
pass.”
*
“Editors who attack the German 4 Minister for the
Interior will be forced in future to take, a quart
of castor oil.”— “Herald.”
Editors will therefore be wise not to bring
their interiors within reach of his ministra-
tions. j- ~ -. .. -
That gentlemen prefer, maids blonde
Is known both far and wide j
No wonder that so many maids
For gentlemen have-, dyed.
* *
THE WELCOME.
The Prodigal Son had returned to Syd-
ney.. “I can’t kill a calf-,” said his father.
“We haven’t been able to afford one for
months. The best I can. do is to use ,my
influence to get you a job on the Government
relief works shovelling sand.” So saying he
banded the Prodigal a shovel, and led him
in the direction of Bunnerong.
Obvious remark of the week: —
Mr. Mcßae (at Sydney inquiry into the N.S.W.
milk business): “We country dairymen do not drink
milk when we come to Sydney.”
* *
PSALM OF POLITICAL LIFE.
Lies of Ministers remind us,
We should promise all we can;
And with polling day behind us
Blandly blame the other man. .
* *
“British politicians have a difficult game to play
in India, but they hold most of the cards.” — -“Times.”
So they should win tlie India rubber.
* * "
“What are the lost arts?” — “Age.”
Hardening copper is about the oldest; bal-
ancing Australian budgets is one of the
newest. V A.
AGREED FOR ONCE.
“Well, I’ve warned you, Marie, and you know I never
break my word.”
“No, dear—too flexible, isn’t it?”
% “Americans have a keen regard for Australians
and there is plenty'of money available in. the United
States.”. —“Labor Daily.”
■ But even if the Americans are.sweet to
ns that’s not to say they will 'give us their
SHgajw V . :
GLUBSON—REALIST.
Ah, Christmas-time is coming, and the ducks
are getting fat,
But who has got the money now for luxuries
like that?
We dream of sparkling vintages and other
things of cheer,
Then wake to know our Christmas fare will
be but cheese and beet'.
Yet when salted by contentment a meal of
cheese is grand,.
And beer is nectar for the gods, no matter
what the brand;
So let’s forget in. humble beer our sorrows
for a while, ;
And greet our anxious neighbors with an
optimistic smile.
I mentioned this to Glubson in a philosophic
vein.
“Eat cheese,” I said, “drink beer, my boy,
till good times come again.”
But what he said has raised in me a pang of
awful fear,
Viz., “Where the hell d’ye think we’ll get the
money for the beer?”
HAMER.
INSATIABLE.
“Amongst American millionaires, flying has be-
come a popular means of ‘tonicking’ when jaded by
the cares of their huge businesses.” — “Sun.”
Their erase has been the lions’ share
To grab and keep. Without remorse
They’ve mopped up millions here and there;
They’ve seized the earth;' and now, of
course,
They take the air.
H.M.


•Jays
aid
ifo sparkling
HEALTH and FITNESS
V
Pep 9 in a Few Minutes
% jm
■IK*,,.
Sb
pi
There’s nothing like
Cream of Yeast to calm
the ■ Nerves in tense,
exciting moments! ■
WHY be nervous, weak-looking and depressed? You can put
new pep into your jaded body; new sparkle in your eyes; mid
gain several pounds of healthy “stay-there” flesh, improving
your looks and fitness amazingly—by means of this New Yeast Com-
pound. Everyone who tries Cream of Yeast says it is a marvellous pick-
me-up ! Not only makes you feel better and brighter in a few minutes,
but it has no equal for banishing “pasty” skin, nerve troubles, indiges-
tion, headaches, sleeplessness and “run-down” conditions generally.
Bony limbs take on attractive curves; ugly hollows vanish—-you quickly
become a different being when you take this remarkable remedy.
Thousands
say “Cream
of Yeast is
LIFT]!”
‘lt has
done me
a lot of
good 1
m
u
J
Gain Weight
and Stamina
NOW!
1
m
s
mm
a
m
m
■
ONE
User says:
“I find great
relief in Cream
cf Yeast; it has
done me good
in several
ways. Had
been in *— Hospital’ and ‘ Sani-
tarium.’ Was going back in health, and
was in a very bad way. Before finishing
my first bottle of Cream of Yeast I
began to improve. I have spent no end
of money on other medicines, but none
have accomplished the good that Cream
of Yeast has done.... Such a vast im-
provement in so short a time.”
—A.E., Young, N.S.W.
mm
m?
■
A Leading Newspaper says: “Cream of Yeast is
a re-vitaliser. Its great beneficial health-giving power lies in the
fact that it quickly tones up the whole
system and so corrects the trouble
at its root. The combination
of essential substances
makes Cream of
Yeast the great -
| est tonic pick-
:me-up known.”
Quick Benefit
-—or Money Back!
Get a package of Cream of
Yeast from tlie nearest
Chemist. Take as directed
on bottle, and if after this
generous trial you are not
thrilled with the weight and
health benefits gained, your
money will be refunded by
Amalgamated
Laboratories,
Wynyard
Square,
Sydney.
GAIN
NEW ‘PEP’
TO-DAY —
Amazing Vitality To-morrow!
This is something neiv in rejuven-
ating “pick-me-ups”-—the benefits
come with surprising rapidity, yet
results are lasting. Cream of Yeast
combines yeast and other medicinal
agents of known and proven value
—in handy t<iblet form. Safe and
reliable. Unfailing results.
It is folly to he thin, nervous and lacking in "pep"
when thousands, once run-down and ill, tell how they
gained Slbs. to 15lhs. in 2 or 3 weeks —and immediate
new strength—by simply taking Cream of Yeast.
WHAT CREAM OF YEAST DOES
Relieves Headaches and Neu-
ralgia in J[ minutes. Banishes
Depression, Low Spirits, Brain
Fag in 8 minutes. Relieves
Acidity, Sour Stomach, Indiges-
tion in 3 minutes. Relieves
Periodical and Abdominal Pains
usually in 12 minutes.
Clears up Influenza Colds,
Catarrh yttacks, Rheumatism,
Aches, Pains, etc., ■within Jo
hours. Gives marked increase of
Forceful Vigor and “Cep” in
15 minutes. Clears Pimples,
Boils, Muddy Skin and Erup-
tions usually within 2 days.
Famous 1
A thlctcs
train on
Cream of Yeast.
o
All Chemists and Stores,
1/11, 3/6 and 5/9.


[ADELAIDES Best-Value Hoti
MORE COMFORT
—AT LESS COST!
fdfdg
Every facility for en-
joyable living at low
cost. Meals a la
carte from 1/6. 300
rooms, 100 bath-
rooms. Hot and cold
water in all rooms.
Yale locks on all
doors Fire - proof
throughout. Cour-
teous service. £3/10/ -
weekly. Bed and
Breakfast from 6/6.
Grosvenor
NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION
Price 10/6
Correct
tyre
pressure
always.
c This unique flat reading surface gives
Tyres inflated to the / correct standard pressure
wear evenly, give more non-skid miles, and
save you time, trouble and money. Use an all-
British KISMET Tyre Tester regularly—its
unique FLAT reading surface gives dead accu-
rate pressure at a glance. Balloon, Standard
or Giant. Balloon, calibrated in lib. units up to
431 b. Standard up to 'nib., and Giant up to
1351 b. respectively. Patentees and Sole Manu-
facturers: WILLIAM TURNER AND BRO.,
LTD., EYRE WORKS, SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
If unable to obtain , write to our Factory Repre-
sentative: Mr. JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71,
Melbourne.
greater accuracy
W, THE IMPROVED _
RismeT
Universal
TYRE TESTER
v>m
I Feed
Him
Right
A properly balanced meal keeps dogs in good
condition, the year around. Meat is essential.
When mixed with fresh vegetables, cereal,
ground bone and cod liver oil, it makes the
best dog food.. It is known as KEN-L-RA*
TlON—the Dog Food Supreme.
Buy a tin today. All dealers stock it.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from JRK
W. C. SCHWAB, P.O. Box 1821, Melbourne
dfgfdgfdg
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
HARROWING.
“Grunter”; There is good and bad :n
harrowing, as in any other job on the farm.
If the ground is dirty and rubbish keeps
accumulating, the leaves should be lifted as
soon as they begin to clog. Don’t go on
until you have a heap of earth dragging in
front. Harrows are not meant for grading.
If a stick or root is the cause of the trouble,
dbn’t leave it lying to cause the same bother
again. Toss it on top of the harrows and
throw it aside at the headland.
If the ground is so dirty that the harrows
are doing the job of a rake, trail a stick, a
little longer than the length from front to
back of the harrows, behind each leaf,
attached by a loose loop of wire. When you
have picked up a load of rubbish, stop, prop
up the harrows with the sticks, and drive
on. The propsticks will keep the leaves off
the ground until they are clear of the heap.
You can then take an hour off some day and
fork and burn the heaps. This is quicker
and easier than holding up a leaf at a time
and dragging the rubbish out with your foot,
and it saves having the horses standing idle
while you work. When not in use, the prop-
sticks can be tossed up on top of the har-
rows.
If your ground is dry and lumpy and
you can’t see where you’ve been with the
harrows, drag a chain with a knot or a
heavy hook at the end of it. Attach it to
the centre of the harrow-bar so that it lies
between the centre leaves. A bullock chain
is just the thing. The harrow-bar should
have a small wheel—-a light block cut off a
round sapling will do —at either end, other-
wise the weight of the bar, where you are
using four or more sections, drags the front
of the harrows down and they are inclined to
buck in rough ground.
For transporting the harrows have one
section—a centre one—fitted on top with a
pair of light iron runners. When you want
to move turn that section over on to the
runners and stack the others on top. Worn
sulky-tyres make good runners. Any handy
man with a forge can shape and attach them.
If using six or more leaves, two sections
could be so fitted.
BURNING-OFF.
“H'ortus” : Fire is a restorative of wasted
pastures. The aboriginals knew this, and
went in for burning-off on a vast scale to
make better hunting. Since Binghi departed
the native grasses have fallen away woe-
fully. In their stead we are plagued with
noxious plants, from capeweed in Victoria
to prickly-pear in Queensland and double-
gees in Westralia.
Old-time station managers had a regular
burning-off annually, aiming at sweetening
the pasture and keeping it free from worms.
Even the small amounts of ash and char-
coal taken in by animals grazing are dis-
tasteful to stomach parasites. Creek chan-
nels and billabong country should be burnt
out as often as possible, for, besides improv-
ing grazing on ranker grasses, fire cleans
up a lot of rubbish and saves fences from
being washed down in ensuing wets.
The right time for burning-off depends
on the normal rainy season in the district.
While there is still moisture in the soil, a
fire will cause deeper-rooted native grasses
to stool prolifically. It will also begin ger-
mination of seeds that might have gone on
lying in the ground for years. A thorough
scorching brings up seedlings of wattles and
boree, which are useful.
To stock country judiciously and burn it
regularly is to improve its natural forage
capacity appreciably. To overstock and never
to burn means putting the kibosh on native
pastures. Fire sweeps the country clean;
it is no respecter of varieties; bndly-rooted
and weak-conditioned plants go to the wall,
strong and well-rooted plants surviving to
propagate themselves. Animals choose for
themselves the herbs which they prefer and
discard others. Naturally they prefer those
which are good and nutritious, leaving in-
ferior or un-nutritious plants to increase and
multiply. Thus in parts of Australia valu-
able grasses have been eaten out, and have
disappeared.
Stock lightly and burn more. I repeat, it is
the deeper-rooted native grasses that flourish
after fire. Most inferior stuff, like feather
top or wild barley, is shallow-rooted, ami so
can be kept in check by systematic burning-
off.
MILK PRESERVATION.
Al P ka ”: Cleanliness, care and ready
co ?ling on. the farm are half the battle.
Mills is peculiarly liable to undergo change
under the influence of micro-organisms, for
growth of which there is no better
natural host. In the udder milk is normally
free from germs, yet, unless special precau-
tj°ns are taken, within a short space of
time after milking it absolutely teems with
the little fellows. These organisms, or their
spores, are derived from the air, the hands
or of the milker, the hair of the
Co> Y’ Y essels l nto wluch tko milk . is P la ced,
aa d environment of the milking-shed,
A dirty gutter in close proximity to the
nulking-shed or dairy has often been the.
dlroct cause of an outbreak of typhoid fever,
F,l . es drinking at the gutter quickly sc ut
a better hole in the shape of a bucket or
dlsk of milk > ancl contamination quickly
fallows.
The rate at which bacteria multiply is
largely dependent on the temperature. Milk
kept a few hours at 15deg. C. may contain
many thousands of germs per drop ; kept at
25deg. C. it will contain as many millions; in-
crease* the temperature to 35deg. C. and it will
contain twice as inanv millions. The im-
PP.rtance of quickly cooling milk is thus
evident; the cooler the milk the less the
growth or multiplication. Speaking gener-
ally, the germs act on the milk sugar, con-
verting it into lactic acid, and the milk sours
or becomes thick.
If milk has to be kept for any length of
time it is necessary to prevent the growth
of the organisms. This may be done by
(a) sterilisation and (b) pasteurisation. The
hardest 1 part about these processes is the
spelling. In (a) the milk is heated to about
115 deg. C. to destroy all germs. This is
usually effected by steam under pressure,
The milk is subsequently kept out of contact
with air, or the air is filtered through cotton
wool. Milk so prepared may be kept inde-
finitely without souring. The taste and
smell are, however, altered, the milk becomes
less coagulable by rennet, a sediment forms
and the milk discolors. On 'the other hand,
the cream layer, although thin, is richer in
fat (containing over 40 per cent.) than
normal cream.
In pasteurising a lower . temperature
(between, OOdeg. and 80deg. C.) is employed
and the milk is subjected to this temperature
two or three times with intermediate cooling,
The taste and properties of the milk are
not altered to any appreciable extent. Casein
precipitated from pasteurised milk is much
finer than fresh-milk casein and is there-
fore more easily digested by young children,
By these treatments part of the lime of fresh
milk is extracted, and consequently the milk
rieher in phosphoric acid; conceivably a
fact of importance in affecting bone forma-
tlon and nutrition. For every 100 parts of
lime in fresh milk tkere are 924 parts of
phosphoric acid. In pasteurised milk the
P-' a - figure is 77\ and in sterilised milk it is
98j. . ,
Certain chemicals are used for preserving
mil k m llea of sterilisation or pasteurisa-
tion—borax or boric acid, salicylic acid and
Tlieir use is not wholesome and
I s . not , recommended. Washing soda or soda
bi-carbonate are also employed. These corn-
P oim ds do not act as preservatives, as is
generally supposed; they merely prevent the
acd ' r : acid formed by fermentation from
eimllin g tne milK.
OATS ON THE DAIRY FARM.
“U. Murray”: Although the old-time
market for oats has gone that vegetable is
still very profitable to the dairy-farmer if
he adopts the right methods. Fallow any
time in .spring—the earlier the better. Keep
the land clean. About the end of February
or the beginning of March put in your oats
with a good helping of super, and a dash of
ammonia sulphate. These manures will
greatly stimulate growth in the cold weather,
and before the first of June there should be
ample green feed to keep a couple of cows
to the acre, right up to the spring flush of
herbage. Then shut the paddock up. You
should be able to harvest a fair crop of
short-stalked, heavy-seeded hay; or let it
ripen and strip the oats and cut the straw
with a reaper and binder,
For dairying good oaten straw fed liber-
ally to the cows arid green oats the follow-
ing winter will be found one of the best and
cheapest-balanced rations, and the oats are
still saleable to eke out one’s earnings. But
—especially if one has any means of crush-
ing them —they are worth all the artificial
concentrates for use on one’s own farm.
On farms where high-class late-spring and
early-summer feed is not naturally abun-
dant, there is nothing better than a crop
of oats put in early in spring and fed off
until the summer crops, such as Soudan
grass and Jap millet, are ready.
STANDARDISATION SUPPORTED.
Syd. J. McAuliffe: “Bar K.” is not
alone in his contention (B. 5/11/’3O)
that standardisation of primary products is
necessary. It is one of the things urged by
the Standards Association, to which I
belong, and is supported by powerful inter-
ests in Queensland, Westralia, Victoria and
South Australia. Moreover, in N. S. Wales
recently, Mr. G. W. Walker, of the Royal
Agricultural Society, urged the standardisa-
tion of wheat and dairy products.
The U.S.A. has developed and found very
effective standards for the grading, packing
and marketing of prunes,--olives, pears, eggs,
walnuts, beans, vegetables, cotton, tobacco,
livestock and grain.
A leading exporter has stated that “the
standardisation of exportable primary pro-
ducts could easily yield a 10 per cent, in-
crease in purchasing prices. Even if only
one-tenth of this is possible, a national
saving of £1.000,000 per annum is practic-
able in Australia.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.
“Noah Fraid”: In my district I am re-
garded as a sort of farming encyclopaedia, but
when a neighbor asked me the area of a hide
of land I had to admit defeat. Yet I dimly
remembered that Scott made Cedric the
Saxon give Gurth a hide of land in “Ivan-
hoc.” Our remote forefathers used a table
in which a yard was 30 acres and a hide
100 acres; a barony was 40 hides.
The subject of weights and measures is
rather fascinating. How many people know
that 3 barleycorns = 1 inch, 3in. = 1 palm,
4in. = 1 hand and 9in. = 1 span?
Then there is the hay-and-straw list. A
truss = 361 b. of straw, 561 b. of old hay and
601 b. of new hay, and a load = 36 trusses.
A load of new hay weighs 19cwt. 321 b., a
load of old hay IScwt., a load of straw
llcwt. 641 b. New hay weighs more than
old hay because of slight decomposition and
loss of moisture.
As for cheese and butter weights, a clove
= 81b., a stone = 161 b., a firkin = 561 b., a
tub = 841 b., a barrel = 2241 b., a box (Aust.)
= a firkin.
Now for wool. A clove = 71b., a stone
= 2 cloves, a tod = 2 stones, a wey = 6J tods,
a sack = 2 weys, a last = 12 sacks. ~ Also,
a score = 201 b. and a pack or bale = 12
scores, that is, 2401 b.
In dry measure a cental = 1001 b., 2 gal-
lons = 1 peck, 4 pecks = 1 bushel, 8 bushels
= quarter, 2 bushels = 1 strike, 4 bushels
= 1 coomb, 2 coombs = 1 quarter, 36 bushels
= 1 chaldron, 5 quarters = 1 wey or load,
2 weys = 1 last. A standard bushel is a
cylinder 191 in. in diameter and B|in. deep.
A kilo is 2.2t)461b. avoirdupois.
A pipe of tallow = 2 hogsheads, and a hogs-
head = 63 gallons.
A wine gallon is smaller than the imperial
gallon; about .833 imp. gallon. A pipe of
wine is 105 imp. gallons.
CAREFUL GRADING PAYS.
“Wilt”: I know a grower of hot-house
tomatoes who has been setting 4s. per half-
bushel case above top market quotations in
■Sydney. Actually his fruit was not up to
the standard of neighbors’ crops, but he
concentrated on picking regularly and just
at the right stage. Not one fully-ripe tomato
was to be seen in his houses except those
saved for seed. The fruit was graded and
packed systematically, and a brand was
pasted on the end of each box. Thus the
buyer knew what he would get.
In other houses in the district though the
fruit was excellent in form, picking was so
haphazard that over-ripe and barely-ripe
stuff was sent to market. In many cases
uneven sizes were packed in the same box.
Ripe fruit was bruised by harder green
tomatoes, and uneven sizes shook loose in
the box.
In the case of choice early fruit, it would
pay to wrap in tissue-paper. A nice effect
may be obtained by leaving a diamond or
cross of unwrapped fruit at the top of each
box to show the quality. The extra shillings
per box total a good round sum at the end
of a season, and when prices are low will
often represent to the grower the difference
between profit and loss.
What applies to tomatoes is applicable to
most summer fruits, especially perishables
ii.ke peaches and apricots.
A TOBACCO-GROWER'S WARNING.
“Umtali” (S. Rhodesia) : That article
or “Tobacco Farms in N. Queensland” (B.
20/8/’3O) makes interesting reading, and
the move to keep in the Commonwealth the
g
(Continued on page 2L)


CLOTHES FOR MEN
THE
“SANTWILL
JP
The Realisation of an IDEAL
QNE of the ideals of the House of Pike Brothers
is to give service and value to the man on the
land. Many years ago Pike Brothers realised the
need for a working shirt that would stand hard
and rough usage, constant washing in all kinds
of water, and yet retain a neat appearance. In short,
a thoroughly serviceable shirt suitable for outdoor
wear.
The SANTWILL was evolved to meet this need,
and is to-day the most popular workshirt in the
Commonwealth. The material is a sandy-colored
twill shirting, guaranteed a fast color. Each shirt
has two breast pockets with flaps to button. Cool
and comfortable for summer wear and of generous
proportions that ensure working comfort.
All sizes. Price, each, 7/9
Three for 22/6
Send your order to Desk S.B.
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
In QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE,
And at TOOWOOMBA, LONGREACH and TOWNSVILLE.
Because
the split
pipes used as
milk-convey-
ors can be
opened up
and exposed
to sunlight.
STOMS
H
New
Why
ELEASE
Sfc
<5
*
a:
H
9
'N
the 'H
Because
there is less
than half the
rubber
usually used,
and no long
Vac u u m
System or
Vac u u m
Tank.
Selected and Purchased for the Queensland Agricultural College, Gatton,
being first in:
I—Hygiene. 2—Simplicity. 3—Efficiency.
4 Minimum of Rubber Fittings.
5 Lowest First Cost and Cost of Upkeep.
A 4-unit with engine complete, erected, costs £l5l f.0.b., Brisbane, milks 80 cows for 30 days
on two tins of petrol.
The “PRINCESS” holds the Medal and Record for Queensland for Cream Skimming.
Improved neck
bush & gunmetal
spring, combined
with self-lubricat-
ing pads.
7 TJj
Simple gear, with
ball - bearing
spindle. Every
part bushed and
renewable.
British “Princess” Separator.
“Princess” are still in use after 30 years’ work. All spare parts in stock.
W. A. PRESTON & CO.
Dairy Machinery Merchants. 175-179 Albert Street. Brisbane.
'i’i'l vf
I
}&!
3
The Essence of Wisdom
m
v : -,3.
:
View on Currumbin Creek Road,
South Queensland.
—is the ability to do the right thing in the right way
at the right time.
The Right Thing for the enjoyment of a perfect
holiday is to choose a place that will give complete
satisfaction. There are good reasons why the choice
this summer should be South Queensland. The boom
of curling breakers on miles of shelving beaches, or
the soft music of eddying streams on mountain heights;
entrancing panoramas; glorious vistas; cool, shady
glades in sub-tropical jungle. . . .all can be enjoyed
at South Queensland’s numerous holiday resorts.
The Right Way to obtain a holiday that will be
satisfying, economical and complete is to consult the
Government Tourist Bureau. Free yourself of irksome
details and let us arrange your transport and accommo-
dation. Regular rail and motor services provide quick
and comfortable transit from the metropolis. Through
tickets issued at concession rates.
The Right Time is now. Why deprive yourself a day
longer of that hard-earned summer vacation?
Further particulars and literature obtainable from
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU
“At Your Service”
George Street, Brisbane.
And at Sydney, Rockhampton, Townsville, Cairns.


' : '
Pliant, easy curves
Every curve of the foot is accom-
modated without any tightness
in this specially designed Abbey
Boot. It is flexible, and allows
full play of the muscles. It is
longer-wearing, because the sole
is made of a double thickness of
the toughest obtainable leather.
And, like all Abbey Boots, it fits
closely and easily at ankle. The
upper is sloped a little to the
back to prevent bulging there.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings in
every size. Specify width and length,
and order, also, the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete) .
TAN WILLOW CALF, 47/6
BLACK BOX CALF, 45/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPL 204
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
fdgfdgfd
SCHUTE,
SELL. 8c Cua.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
gfdgfdgfd
gfdgfdgfdg
T IFE is different at this
famous Canadian Rocky Moun-
tain resort —care fades as you
rest and play—magnificent hotel
city comforts warm swim-
ming pool—golf on the world’s
most picturesque course—riding
in spicy air over scenic roads—
grandeur you’ll never forget. A
thousand things to see and do at
Banff on the way to Europe.
Literature on request.
Canadian Pacific,
247 George Street,
Sydney.
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
7fw Worlds Greatest J'ravel System.
* u n
A Barber uses a blade razor for
shaving because it is the most
efficient for the work; why not fol-
low the example of one who knows?
THE PLUM RAZOR is the best value
ever offered ; it will shave you better,
quicker and cheaper than any safety
razor. If you must have a safety we
can supply a safety guard to fit the
PLUM for 2/9 which converts it to
a superior class safety, permitting
the correct diagonal shaving stroke,
no fresh blades to buy
THE PLUM RAZOR, sizes fin.-fin.,
in satin lined hinged case. Posted
12/6.
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD fits
any blade razor sizes fin. to fin.
Posted 2/9.
Each razor set ready for use and
guaranteed and kept in order for
two years free of charge.
CRAIG AND AITKEK
es-a? ctsor-GtE st. Sydney
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
E7TP
\
E
6ft. wide x Bft. drop
17/6
9ft. wide x Bft. drop
25/6
12ft. wide x Bft. drop
32/6
VERANDAH BLINDS
Tb is Special Line of standard size Blinds, made of English White or Green
or Brown blocked Striped Duck, complete with fittings—top batten, heavy
bottom roller, single and double pulley straps, cord and staples.
Note.—We cannot supply this line in other than those quoted above.
Prices for other sizes and materials on application.
HANDLER
Ofo BIGGEST HARDWARE HOUSE, IN VICTORIA *
(D. & W. CHANDLER, LTD.),
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY, VICTORIA.
What arc, the symptoms of liver fluke in
sheep? —l26.
As the disease progresses the sheep become
less lively, and the visible mucous membrane
of the eyes and mouth becomes pale and
anaemic. Later, the appetite fails, and rumi-
nation is interfered with. The skin and
membrane of the eye become pale and yel-
lowish : the wool is dry, ragged, and parts
easily from the skin. In many cases con-
siderably swelling occurs below the jaws
(“bottle”), and diarrhoea sets in. Emacia-
tion becomes very marked, and the animals
• die from exhaustion.
(1) How many sheep are there in W.A.?
(2) In what ratio are these sheep divided
between the south-western portion (south-
west of (Northampton, Yalgoo, Southern
Cross and Esperance) and the rest of the
State? (3) What is the total number of
sheep carried, by the six largest north-west
sta tions? —9s3o.
(1) At Dec. 31, 1929, 9.556,825. (2)
South-western division, 4,960.142; Central
division, 1,884,353; Kimberley division,
2,632,669; Southern division, 79,661. (3)
The stations Noonkambah, Do Grey Pas-
toral Co., Yanrey, Boolathanna, Brick House
and Clifton Downs carry an aggregate of
310,000 sheep.
7 have read of a method of destroying
tree-stumps by boring an auger-hole and
filling it with saltpetre and muriatic acid.
Is this a reliable method? —9889.
It lia.s been tried in Queensland from
time to time, but has not given very satis-
factory results.
What is the state of the dairying industry
in Fiji, and what prospects are there for an
Australian in that line? —l4l.
The milk supply of Suva and Levuka is
provided by small dairies, mostly the pro-
perty of Indians. Dairy cows do very well
in the climate, and in recent years a butter
industry has developed to a point at which
exports are being made. There are butter
factories at Navua, Rewa and Tailevu; and
all are doing fairly well. There are said
to be still a few farms available close to
factories, and for an experienced dairy-
farmer with capital the prospects are
bright. Fiji is well stocked with pure-bred
bulls and cows from N.S.W. and M.L.
What breed of cow holds the record for
butter-fat production in Q’land, also N. S.
Wales ? —9978.
The junior two-year-old record for Aus-
tralia is held by Diana 17tli. of Kelston,
A.I.S. breed, owned by A. Frank, Boonah.
She produced in 273 days 13,604.751 b. milk
containing 572.4961 b. butter-fat. The Q’land
record for a mature cow, any breed, is held
by Charmer 11. of City View, an A.I.S.
cow, owned by M. Lawrence, Bundamba.
She produced in 273 days 17,3151 b. milk, con-
taining 739.491 b. butter-fat. The Austral-
asian and world’s record for any cow or
breed is held by Melba XY. of Darbalara,
an A.I.S. cow. in N. S. Wales. She pro-
duced in 365 days 32,5221 b. milk, containing
16141 b. butter-fat.
In building pig-houses in N.S.W. what are
the most important points to observe? —100.
They need not be elaborate or expensive
so long as the pig is kept warm and free
from draughts. A wooden platform or
cement floor must be provided, on which the
pigs can sleep and keep off the wet ground.
The houses should be open to the east or
north-east so as to get the maximum amount
of sunlight, this being the best disinfectant.
Draughts of fresh air should come into the
shed over the, pigs. Draughts blowing directly
on them should be guarded against.
llow to destroy crickets in large numbers?
1 want to save young plants in seed-boxes
and protect clothing. —9BB7.
Best control for mole crickets that attack
plants is to sprinkle a poison bran bait over
the soil in the evening. Mix loz. of Paris
green thoroughly into 31b. of bran. Stir to-
gether a tablespoon of molasses, a squeeze of
orange-juice and a pint of water. Add the
fluid to the poisoned bran and mix together
thoroughly. It is advisable to bait the ground
two or three days prior to planting out
seedlings. To prevent damage to clothes,
sodium fluoride may be sprinkled on the
shelving or in the cupboards.
How to prepare soil for planting straw-
berries?—33.
In the case of virgin scrub or forest land,
which is, as a rule, fairly rich in humus,
the land, after it is cleared, should be broken
up deeply and brought into a state of as
nearly perfect tilth as possible. On such
soil, unless it is very poor, it is not neces-
sary to apply manure for the first crop ; but
for subsequent crops, or on old land, system-
atic manuring is essential. Old land that
is deficient in humus should be given a
heavy dressing of farmyard or stable
manure (a load to every four perches). Or
a green crop, such as cowpeas, which has
been well manured with phosphatic and
potassic manures, should be grown,
ploughed in and allowed to rot; then the
land should be reploughed and worked down
fine. The surface should be kept level
and worked down fine, so that when
the young plants are set out they will
take hold of the soil at once and become
firmly established. To plant strawberries
on raw land, sour land, or land that has
been indifferently prepared is to court
failure.
A well-grown seedling apple-tree in my
garden at Marvel Loch (W.A.), seven or
eight years old, has not yet borne fruit. The
buds are opening to leaves, not flowers. How
can I make it bear? —9400.
Your district is unfavorable for apples, but
as the seedling is probably adapting itself to
circumstances there’s nothing to be done.
It is not unusual for a seedling to be late
in coming into bearing. Many have reached
10 years of age and over before fruiting.
How to eradicate fowl lice? —30.
Fowl-houses, nest boxes and other likely
harboring places must be thoroughly cleaned.
Any litter must be removed and burnt.
After cleaning, thoroughly spray the interior
of the building, nest boxes, etc., with a mix-
ture of one part kerosene to two parts waste
motor oil, making sure to saturate the under
side and in all cracks and crevices of the
roosts. This spraying must be continued at
weekly intervals until the parasite is eradi-
cated.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Bill R.”: For mauls, mattocks and hoes,
a durable handle may be made from the
unpared sucker of a brush 1 illipilli. From
the barrel of an old decaying tree you can
grow clusters of new branch lets; select one
suitable in straightness, size and taper, and
fit the butt into the eye of the tool. Then
you will have a handle not only of whale-
bone strength, but one that does not jar and
works smooth to the hands.
“Odd Job”: Saw a handy fence dodge
the other day on a. place where the long
length of fencing often had to be cut to let
stock out. Between two posts—painted
white —a neat open join was made. The
ends of the wire were twisted into small loops
and one fitted over the other; a pin made
of wire was slipped in to hold the two sec-
tions together. This arrangement allowed of
reasonable strain and was quickly opened,
with no lost stock or ruined fences.
“Honi Pika.u”: When sowing an oat crop
for feeding off, include a few pounds; of clover
seed in the sowing. The advantages are
twofold—a buckshee fertiliser and a clover
pasture after the oats are finished. And
should the oat crop fail you still have the
clover.
“Atriplex”: The use of sump oil as a fly
dressing has led to the complaint that when
wool containing it is scoured the oil rises to
the surface as a black film, and settles on
the wool again when the liquor is drawn off.
Even Stockholm tar, the reports adds, is to
be preferred to these mineral oils. In short,
sump oil may be a good dressing, but it
affects the price.
“Ivripple” : When shearing machinery is to
he installed don’t fell a good tree to'get a
stump large enough to erect the grinding
machine on. With a 3 x 2 x 1 concrete mix
ture reinforced with strips of hoop-iron from
bales you can make a stump superior to a
stick of timber. Sink the hole 16in. square by
3ft. deep. Over it set up an open-ended
box form 16in. by lGin. inside measurement,
height according to situation. Plumb it,
square face to shafting and temporarily stay
top and bottom to prevent movement while
concrete is being poured, bolts having been
positioned with template to suit type of
machine. Also set a bolt each side near the
top so that permanent stays can be secured
if the shed is a high ■ one. After concrete
has been poured place wet bags round the
job and allow two or three days to set before
removing the form.
“Tridit”: In districts where lucerne is
grown farmers will be looking to their
mowing-machines. When putting the knife
in order, if there are broken or worn-out
sections to be removed don’t waste time on
the rivets with files and cold-chisel, but try
this. _ Close the jaws of your vyce to about
an eighth of an inch (if you haven’t a
vyce any square-faced heavy piece of iron
will do) ; rest the back of knife on the
vyce with the section to be removed point
downwards between the jaws ; hold the knife
firmly and with a hammer strike the back
of the section a sharp blow. This will shear
off the rivets ; they are now easily removed
from the holes. When putting on the new
section give the rivet two or three smart
blows to swell it in the hole. When holding
the knife wrap an old hag round it to save
your hands.
“Gardener”: If you have an old fence
oi* trellis to spare plant Lima beans. Left
till they ripen, the beans make a tasty vege-
table—when soaked —for winter use. Either
whole or ground into meal they are excellent
for stock, especially pigs.
“Jack Point”: An egg is over 70 per cent,
wate'r; therefore you can’t have first-quality
hen-fruit when your water-supply is indif-
ferent. The actual drinking vessel should
be of earthenware ; and it is a good thing to
have a kerosene-tin with a small tap soldered
in that just drips sufficiently to keep the
vessel full. Don’t have the water anywhere
except in a very shady spot; warm water is
bad for the birds. Once a week give the
drinking vessels a thorough doing with hot
water and soda, besides rinsing them every
day.
“ Johnno”: Unless the ground is wanted for
immediate use it is always better to leave
felled scrub lie for at least 12 months before
burning it off —in Queensland at all events.
Not only is a better burn assured, but ground
is not so liable to be so baked by the heat
that nothing will grow on it for many
months. Then a fire after the leaves have
fallen and the timber is thoroughly dry
results in a greater quantity of fine ash and
next to no charcoal, the ash being more
evenly distributed than when the timber has
to be lumped and burnt in stacks. Fierce
fires create vortices of flames, which gather
up the ash as it is made and broadcast it
over the countryside, instead of depositing it
on the ground being cleared to provide future
plant food.
“E.H.M.” : Where suitable wood is scarce
swing bars may be made out of Jin.-iron,
2in. wide. Cut it the required length and
drill a fin. hole at each end for the trace
chain hooks, and an 11-16 in. hole in the
middle to take the fin. round iron hooks
(one end of which must be bent at right
angles) that link up.
“Cooktown”: A disease that will reduce
payments for dingo scalps lias broken out
among the wild dogs of this district (Annan
River, N.Q.). In advanced cases the creatures
are covered with suppurating sores, which
invariably kill. Domesticated dogs that con-
sort with the sheep-murderers are also
attacked. A scalper who has captured consid-
erable numbers of dingoes informs me that the
disease is killing off the old dogs, and you
rarely bag an old one of either sex.
“Go Do”: Tell “Hatter” (B. 5/11/’3oj
that I have tried sulphate of ammonia and
super, as a potato fertiliser, with unprofit-
able results compared with 2Jcwt. of super.
No doubt in poverty-stricken country with
poor “eockying.” sulphate of ammonia or even
potash would give results.
“Bushman”: How’s this for productivity?
In my N.S.W. district a pullet-duck of the
muscovy breed brought out 13 youngsters
11 weeks ago. She left the brood very soon
and laid 17 eggs, every one of which has
just hatched.
“S.T.S.” : At Yorketown (S.A.) show, the
Ilewton farm, from near the seashore, had
a stand of 532 different articles, all produced
from it. Surely a record.


SfStißim r
AUCKLAND, N.Z. (Ace. 160)
“Only UNLICENSED Hotel-de-Luxe”
C.T., P.S., and Auto. Ass’ns’ House.
Days, 15/- (two or more, 14/-) ; Weekly, 84/-
“Special” rooms (h. and c. water), 16/- or 98/-
Keep Dirt
Out-Keep
Air In
dfg
ENUINE Schrader
V-J Valve Caps do these
two things perfectly.
Close-fitting, tested air-
tight to 250 lbs. pressure.
Should a Valve Core
become worn out or
damaged the Schrader
Valve Cap will hold the
air until a new Valve
Core is inserted.
Replace promptly valve
caps which are missing
from your tyres.
Always keep a spare box
of Schrader Valve Caps
(five caps) in your car.
For sale by tyre and ac-
cessory suppliers every-
where.
Be sure it’s a SCHRADER
Look for
the name
&
Scifrader
Makers of Pneumatic
Valves Since 1844
Tyre Valves
Tyre Gauges
£20,000 of real new money is paid
weekly to mine employees alone at
Broken Hill. This new money is multi-
plied over and over as it circulates.
Get on to it and get your share, you
enterprising advertisers. Get on to it
through THE BARRIER MINER, the
great Western friend to all advertisers.
M
V N I HD
Aim
lw
M
(09
"These are my jewels”
is the proud thought of
a hostess,when guests admire
the Shelley China Tea Set. Even
if her means do not provide ex-
pensive clothes and jewelry, she
can express the desire for beauty
in China.
Each piece of Shelley “Dainty
White” ware is brilliant, trans-
lucent, pure and white as snow;
bearing the Hall Mark of aristoc-
racy, because made as perfect
chinaware must always be
by the traditional methods
peculiar to Staffordshire for
many generations.
Ask to sec the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morninc Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
Zy Lucie Attwell
tHILDA Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds .
IM CASE OP ANY DIFFICULTY IN OBTAINING
WRITE TO : -
T,W. NIATH fc CO. LTD. Imioi
a32.CLAR.HNCE *T. ' rri ~ r- '''
IYDNIV
A A
V \
Never neglect backaches or pains,
rheumatic twinges, bladder or urinary
troubles. They’re among life’s serious
warnings. Take Harrison’s Pills to-day
and get relief at once. Thousands
have been glad they started Harrison’s.
Any chemists or stoies, 2/-, 3/-, or
giant size, 5/—. Satisfaction certain
KiWUMKig
FOR “SWAN” PENS AND
ALL PENS.
V
See them
now—or
write for
full infor-
mal ion
The Best
of comrades in the
V
V
V
field
There is No Better-Known pair of Single Shot, Twenty-Two
Caliber Rifles anywhere, than these two Stevens.
No. 17 “FAVORITE”—Lever Action chambered for .zz
long-rifle, .Z 5 rim-fire, or .32. long rim-fire cartridges.
With z4-inch round barrel, and with stock and forearm of di-
mensions large enough to fit your needs. The drop-block, lever
action is unusually powerful. Shotgun-type butt with rubber
butt plate Stock and forearm of Walnut. German silver front
and sporting rear sight.
No. 14# “LITTLE SCOUT”—chambered for .zz long
rifle cartridges.
A light, accurate rifle with 2.0-inch, round, tapered barrel.
Thumb operated drop breech block, positive extractor. German
silver, blade front sight; flat top rear sight. Walnut finish
stock—steel butt plate, weight z}4 lbs.
Exclusive Representative for Australia and New Zealand
ASHER SMITH, LTD. P. O. Box 966 Sydney, N. S. W.
J. STEVENS ARMS COMPANY
Export Offices: 100 East 42nd Street New York.N. Y., U. S. A.
• STEVENS
BANK
(Government Savings Bank of N.S.W.)
Head Office, 48-50 Martin Place, Sydney.
CHEQUE ACCOUNTS
opened for Individuals, Firms, Companies and Institutions.
FIXED DEPOSITS
accepted at the following rates:—
No limit to amount. Interest commences from date of deposit.
192 BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE STATE.
SHADOW SHOWS.
~ -L he following conclusions can be drawn
trom Cheer Up and Smile” (Fox), w’hicn
lias been filling the ornate Regent, Melbourne,
with strange, noises. The American college
youth is a mixture of moron, brute and boor.
He is equipped with a voice like a steam cal-
liope. and the manners of his negro servants
are infinitely superior; also their diction is
better. His girl companions have the intellec-
tuality of rabbits, and his pastors and masters
spmelessly allow him to turn his college into
a bear-garden. He can kick a professor into
a chrysanthemum bed and get away with it.
He performs his buffooneries amidst academic
surroundings which make an Australian
metropolitan moving-picture palace look like
a blaekfollqw’s wurley. It is difficult to
believe that even Hollywood could turn the
country which produced Washington, Emer-
son, Lincoln, Poe, Twain and Cabell
into the above in one short generation.
Arthur Lake is the feeble-witted hero and
Dixie Lee the heroine of the production
under discussion. It is a comfort that one.
is able to survey the antics of these people
and feel that they are hardly human.
* * *
In “Good Intentions” (Fox), Edmund
Lowe was seen at Sydney Regent as a mous-
tachioed gangster. Wealthy, handsome, unim-
peachably dressed, popular with the ladies
and a king amongst men, he is just the kind
of romantic character who causes small
ineffective insolvents to buy masks and gel
soundly thrashed by the first householder
they attempt to hold up. But he is only a
dream; there never was a criminal of his'
sort. Loving and loved by him is Mar-
guerite Churchill, the stock Hollywood ver-
sion of a society beauty. Divine Providence
could not countenance such a mesalliance, so
glorious Edmund is shot in the stomach, and
drab Regis Toomey, who has been kept in
hand by the playwright as a second string,
marries the girl. Somebody has to marry
somebody in tosh of this sort.
As a play the stuff is on the level of a
Sunday colored supplement, yet the acting
level is unusually high. it is sad indeed
to see the polished character-work of Robert
McWade wasted on such rubbish. He is the
best of a good bunch. The three sub-crooks,
who are Lowe’s chief lieutenants, are also
well cast. Why all these brilliant actors
should be offered to the child-minds that are
interested in a play like “Good Intentions”
is a mystery.
* # *
“Last of the Lone Wolf,” which had a
recent run at Sydney Capitol, is about one
of those European queens who lose rings,
must recover them inside a limited number of
hours or incur disaster, and have various
devoted retainers scouring the country for
the purpose. The procedure is stereotyped.
One character pinches the ring from another
for the space of an hour or more, and then
it is handed to the royal owner by the hero
amidst the baffled snarlings of the undesir-
ables of the cast. Apart from the excite-
ment of seeing the temporary possessors of
the bauble knocked unconscious, thrown out
of trains, tied up, chased in cars and so on,
the seasoned talkie patron asks no more than
a reasonably credible atmosphere—an illusion
that he is listening to people of the race indi-
cated on the programme. He doesn’t get
it here owing to the strange babel of accents.
Bert Lytell combines rather disconcert-
ingly the lady-killing suavity and courtliness
of an old-fashioned floor-walker with the iron
face of an elderly gangster. He sets out,
all arch smiles and meaning glances, to teach
a Saxonian countess American. But the
countess is Patsy Ruth Miller, a typical
cutie with a strong N. York twang. Henry
Daniell, as the ambassador, is. a Londoner
(West End variety) ; the queen is from N.
York (or it may be Chicago), and the Em-
bassy servants are Boweryites. Captain Hoff-
mann is English ; the other ranks of his army
talk like Doughboys, and Varrill, the ex-
tremely capable villain, is a blend of Yank
and Frenchman. Elstree does these Ruri-
tanian shows much more convincingly than
Hollywood for the simple reason that British
producers are acutely accent-conscious, and
Americans aren’t.
* * *
“Song of the Flame” (First National), at
Melb. Majestic, explains the origins of the
Russian Revolution. It appears that the
Russian people were hungry, oppressed
and discontented, but didn’t know what to do
about it until Anuita came along. Anuita
was a Hollywood actress whose name
present writer has forgotten, and her voice
was none too wonderful, but when she leapt
upon a fountain in a public square in
Petrograd and safig a song, whose words
were as undistinguished as the music they
were set to, the whole country rose and burnt
the Imperial palaces. Then they con-
solidated the revolution by dressing in musi
comedy costumes and dancing around the
city, though they knocked off from the real
Soviet business occasionally to shoot a bev\
of aristocrats. Anuita, dismayed at the
results of her thoughtless efforts at grand
opera, thereupon retired to a distant village,
which was the property of the good-looking
Prince Volodya. Here the peasants would
have nothing to do with the revolution, bin
danced and played ring-a-ring-a-resy on
behalf of the old regime. Into this Arcadian
resort, how r ever, came Konstantin, a black-
jowled, wicked Bolshevik. He would kill
Prince Volodya and set up Soviet rule in
the village, but the villagers danced and
sang some more and Anuita saved the Prince
and they fell in love with each other. She
was then arrested for anti-revolutionary
activity and would have been done to death
by the commissars, no doubt to music, but
Prince YYdodya rescued her, and so the Rus-
sian Revolution ended happily.
The above version of history would be
good enough for operetta purposes on the
legitimate stage and blow the consequences,
but somehow" the cinema, despite its obvious
artifice, seems to demand a more realistic
story. At no time are we able to accept the
shadows on the screen, which, by the way,
are attractively colored, as even romantic-
ally plausible. The shooting of the aristo-
crats is grimly real; the eaperings of the
principals are absurdly melodramatic. Despite
a lavish expenditure on extras, the two
don’t blend successfully.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in. filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
‘Wanted to SeU’’- or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Ex-officer A.I.F. (37), W.A., married, executive
exp. import and export trade in England, Continent
and China; also pastoral exp. in Australia; wants
post in Islands. Prepared to invest later. Refs.—s 3.
Prospector, Tas., 25 years’ exp., now osmiridium
digging, wishes to meet partner with capital, view
prospecting in New Guinea. —41.
Ex-army sister, Adelaide, would do light duties,;
sewing, etc., in return for board, at any seaside
home, with refined family; pay own fare. Any State.
Refs. —59.
Tutorship sought by Uni. graduate, Sydney, exp.
in teaching primary and secondary subjects,- including
languages ; town or country. Refs. —76.
To collaborate with journalist, Sydney, in re-
writing short story. Knowledge of Near East
needed. —78.
Ex-Canadian soldier, Vic., wants job on plantation
in Papua, or other Pacific Islands.—-81.
Lady, N.S.W., wants position Q’land as lady help
or nurse; do hopsework or sewing.—83.
Capable middle-aged married couple, Sydney, want
engagement guest house, mountains preferred. Exp.
—94.
Returned soldier (30), wants job anywhere in
Australia or Islands. Can quickly adapt himself to
conditions and minds his own business. Good wages
essential.—l Bl.
Lady, W.A., seeks crochet work.—l9s.
Young man (19), Q’land, four years ’exp. saw-
sharpening, wants position with sawmaking firm for
12 months to learn hammering. State conditions and
premium.—125.
Experienced fitter and turner (35), Vic., wants
work of any kind. Refs.—l 66.
Motor mechanic and chauffeur (24), Q’land, much
overland holds gas- and oil-engine tickets
and I.C.S. diploma, wants job of any sort anywhere.
Refs.—l9o.
Refined young lady, N.S.W., good education, wants
position as companion, secretary or other position
of trust.—lB6.'
Q’lander, expert bushman, exp. with horses or
cattle, drive car, wants job anywhere. Refs.—2os.
To buy, second-hand, “Game’s Method of Piano-
forte Teaching.”—9.
To buy copies of the “Australian Museum Maga-
zine.” —146.
To buy Bidwell’s “Rambles in New Zealand”
(1841) and “John Inglesant” (2 vols., 1881). —117.
To buy second-hand copy of Churchill’s “World
Crisis” (2 vols.). —123.
Will exchange good typewriter for Baby Pathe
(hand) 'camera, Melb. —192.
Young man wants to correspond with readers
interested in the works of Francis Thompson, Donne,
Sir Thomas Browne, Crashawe and J. B. Cabell.
(To J. H. Dudley, Post Office, Einasleigh, N.Q.)
Whereabouts of John H. Robinson, who came to
Australia about four years ago from U.S.A., believed
to be in Western Q’land. Niece in Tas. inquiring.
—95.
Whereabouts of Les Macdonald, last heard of in
Sydney, previously of Albert Park arfti Ballarat.
Brother Angus, 8 Frith-street, London, W.l, asks.
Information Supplied.
Would the A.M.P. Society insure a person
training for _an air-pilot’s certificate under
ordinary policy or under a special policy?
Are the rates heavy? —997s.
The society would not knowingly issue a
policy on the life of a person who was train-
ing to become an aviator without excluding
the risk of death from aviation. In the case
of a fresh policy on the life - of a certificated
pilot it would, in all probability, cover the
aviation risk on payment of an extra pre-
mium, which would not be likely to exceed
5 per cent, per annum of the sum assured.
(1) Who invented smoke-writing in the
sky hy the use of aeroplanes, and when was
the first public exhibition given? (2) Type
of ’plane generally used for sky-writing? (3)
How is the smoke ■ produced and the letter
written ? —9813.
(1) It was invented by John Clifford
Savage in 1910, and was the subject of
exhaustive experiment and research during
subsequent years. It was first produced
publicly in May, 1922; over the Epsom race-
course on Derby Day, the aviator being Capt.
Cyril Turner. (2) High-altitude fighting
scout. (3) A chemical mixture is burnt and
projected from the exhaust pipe bf the aero-
plane motor, which can be cut off by the
pilot when required. The machine must
follow the course of the letters to be written.
Was the use of poison gas in the World
War a contravention of the Hague Conven-
tion?—977l.
In the spirit, but not in the letter.
(1) Where does Pat Hanna, the comedian,
of 3 LO and 3 AR Melbourne, hail from? (2)
Are any of his items on gramophone records?
—9841.
(1) Born Mercury Bay (M.L.). Served
with N.Z.E.F. throughout war; was divi-
sional entertainment officer after Armistice
in occupied territory. Formed Pat Hanna’s
Diggers, and toured Australasia- for 12 years.
Co. disbanded last year. (2) Yes; “Gospel
According to Cricket” and others.
A few brief facts about the carpet-snake?
--9844.
It is of the genus Python, and is found on
the mainland of Australia and in Papua.
It grows to from Bft. to 10ft., and is an
expert climber. It is non-venomous, but
its bite-wounds, inflicted by five rows
of upper-jaw and two rows bf lower-
jaw teeth, take a long time to heal.
Feeding on rodents chiefly, it approaches
its prey by wriggling sideways—not up
and down. Within distance it strikes
swiftly, seizing with its teeth and co-iling
roiind its victim to crush it to death. The
so-called Tasmanian carpet-snake, the large-
scaled venomous Denisonia superba, is no
relation.
What arc the chemical constituents of
petrol, kerosene and crude oil? —9815.
Petrol: Carbon, 84 p.e. to 86 p.c.; hydro-
sen, 14 p.c. to 16 p.c. Kerosene: Carbon,
84 p.c. to 86 p.c.; hydrogen, 12 p.c. to
14 p.c. Average fuel oil: Carbon, 84 p.c. to
86 p.c.; hydrogen, 11 p.c. to 14 p.c.; water
sediment and other, impurities, not more than
1: p.e. The above figures represent the aver-
age ultimate analysis on average products
available in Australia, and do not refer to
any particular brand.
(1) Would £l2O p.a. and keep he a fair
thing for a position as stockman in Fiji?
(2) Is the climate healthy? (3) Is a pass-
port needed? (4) If so, how can it be
obtained? (5) Gould an account in the
Commonwealth Rank be transferred to Fiji?
(6) Fare from Sydney?—ft B26.
(1), (2) and (3) Yes. (4) Apply Pass-
port Office, Customs House, Circular Quay,
Sydney. (5) Yes. (6) Single fare from Syd-
ney to Suva ranges from £lO to £l9 accord-
ing to class. Burns, Philp and Co.’s Tourist
Dept., 7 Bridge-street, Sydney, will arrange
passport, book passage and transfer money
to Fiji.
How many species of balsam-tree are there
in Australia? —9soo.
The “sweet gum,” Liquidambar styraci-
fkta, sometimes known as “balsam-tree.”
is grown in many districts of N. S. Wales.
We’know of no other species. The best-
known “balsam-tree,” Balsamodendron, does
not grow in Australia.
(1) 7 low to mix cream paint for outdoor
use? (2) Buff for same use? (3) llow to
estimate quantities of materials needed to
cover a given area of wall space? —9B36.
(1) Proportions should be 281 b. wdiite lead
in oil, 7 pints raw linseed oil, IJlb. patent
driers, ,]lb. raw sienna in oil. Mix thoroughly
and strain. If the color is not dark enough
add a little more raw sienna. (2) Keep
adding a little burnt sienna in oil until the
desired shade is obtained. (3) The quantity
of material mentioned above will cover
approximately 1600 square feet (one coat).
You will save a< lot of time and trouble, and
find it more profitable in the long run, to buy
a good ready-mixed paint.
How to quickly measure the length of a
proposed- drain other than by the use of the
■ chain tape? —34.
A method used in road work -which gives
very accurate results is to tie a piece of
white rag round a spoke of the wheel of a
buggy, the vehicle being then advanced until
the wheel has made a complete revolution.
A mark having been made on the ground
before starting, the circumference of the wheel
is easily measured. Then by driving along
the proposed route of the drain and counting
the number of revolutions of the wheel the
total distance is readily arrived at.
Would it be possible for persons of various
nationalities, each knowing enough Latin for
a priest's calling, to carry on a conversation
in Latin about polnics or other current
topics? —27.
It would require a consummate degree of
Latinity on the part of all concerned to make
such a conversation possible. An initial
difficulty would be to Latinize the myriads
of new words that have cropped up since
the days of Livy, and national differences of
idiom among the conversationalists would
prove a further handicap.
(1) llow did Pipe Clay Creek, Port
Stephens (N.S.W.) get its name? (2)
What use could be made of the clay found
-in the vicinity? (3) Prospects for a new
industry utilising the clay ? —9774.
(1) No definite record, but there can be
little doubt that the creek was named
because of the exposures of clay it contained.
(2) Manufacture of firebricks. (3) Unfav-
orable at present. Port Stephens is hampered
by its distance from existing manufacturing
centres.
Is the large blue flower, the morning glory,
a native of N. S. Wales?— 99l7.
There is a native species with purplish
flowers, Ipomwa palmata, which is quite com-
mon along the seashores in sandy soil. It
lias dissected leaves and is easily distin-
guished from the best-known garden species,
Ipomwa learii. That is a native of Buenos
Ayres. It is cultivated in many N.S.W.
gardens as an ornamental flowering vine, but
in several localities it has escaped from cul-
tivation, become naturalised, and is regarded
as a weed. „. ... •
Quantity and value of Australian exports
of wheat, wool, butter and beef and number
of persons engaged in' these industries in
(1) 1913, and J 2) 1929?—9791.
(1) 1913: Exports, butter, 75,802,8031 b.
(valued at £3,565,282) ; frozen beef,
218,918,6061 b. (£2,652,275) ; wheat, 25,753,732
centals (£7,987,477) ; wool (including greasy,
scoured and washed and tops), 595,886,9641 b.
(£26,277,062). Detailed particulars re-
lating to numbers engaged in production are
not available, but the number of persons
engaged in rural industries for 1913 was:
farming, 215,379; dairying, 107,627; pas-
toral, 90,529; total 413,535. (2) 1928-29:
Exports, butter, 107,663,2641 b. (£7,001,556) ;
frozen beef, 156,748,6651 b. (£2,569,788) ;
wheat, 24,234,424 centals (£10,036,535) ;
wool (all kinds), 744,345,7031 b. (£36.600,510).
t Persons engaged in farming, 200,754; dairy-
ing, 126,380 : pastoral, 91,898; total 419,032.
Ilgw 'can an 'illegitimate child be legiti-
mated after the marriage of the parents in
'H:S.W.?^-139.
Provided that at the time of the birth there
existed no legal impediment to the marriage,
legitimation ... is effected on the father
producing to a District Registrar a statutory
declaration in the form prescribed by tin 1
Legitimation Act 1902 and a certified copy
of the entry of his marriage with the child’s
mother. The District Registrar then regis-
ters the child, whether alive or dead, as the
lawful issue of such man and his wife.
(1) Which is correct, “death adder ” or
“deaf adder”? (2) What are the outstand-
ing characteristics of the reptile? —l4o.
(1) “Death adder” is the correct popular
name of Acanthopis antarcticus; its disin-
clination to move when approached earned
it the other title. (2) It is a short, elumsy-
looking snake with a blunt triangular head
and stumpy tail that ends with a horny spike.
Its length ranges from 2ft. to 3ft. The young
have dark bands ringing their bodies; these
bands sometimes last all through life, but
adult colors are variable. A Centralian
species is brick-red. The death-adder’s
fangs are large, lin. apart, and its venom is
most deadly. It is found throughout Aus-
tralia in swampy and sandy country. There
is a Papuan species.
(1) Can patents for other countries, both
British and foreign , he obtained through the
Melbourne patents office? (2) Where are
patent application forms for foreign coun-
tries obtainable? —97ss.
(1) No. Patents for countries other
than Australia are obtained by direct appli-
cation to the authorities in those countries.
As patents procedure differs in each country,
it is advisable to'employ professional assist-
ance. A list of registered patent attorneys
will be furnished by the Patents Dept.,
581-85 Bourke-street, Melbourne. (2) On
application to the patent authorities in each
country.
(1) Cost of living in Tahiti? (2) Any
restrictions upon British subjects making a
permanent home there? (3) Is Papeete a
desirable place of residence, or is it a hot-
bed of vice, as some writers imply? —996s.
(1) Current figures not available locally.
Write to the British Consul at Papeete.
(2) No. A new arrival must be in posses-
sion of a valid passport, of a sum of ’money
in event of repatriation being necessary,
and of a certificate vouching for the holder’s
respectability and attesting that he has not
served any term of imprisonment. (3) It
is a gay little town, and ample opportunities
exist for those who like to kick over the
traces, but one can maintain one’s respect-
ability without interference there as readily
as in, say, Darlinghurst.
If a will has been proved in England is
it possible to obtain a copy in Australia, and
where? Also, is it possible to discover the
name of a testator if the’ name of the legatee
is sent to the place where the will was
proved f—9982.
(1) Yes, from the General Register Office,
Somerset House, London. There is a fee for
copying, and you must pay stamp duty and
postage. (2) You would have to get some-
one to make a search on your behalf. The
names of testators are registered but not
those of legatees.
In a tale, “Peter's Puzzle,” by Helen
Broadbent, reference is made to a “ Bertha ”
who “gathers together all the sad , unhappy
little ones ivho have no father nor mother.’'
What is the meaning of the allusion? —9s64.
Webster’s Dictionary allies the name
Bertha with Perchta, who in German folk-
lore was “probably an ancient goddess of
the earth and its fruitfulness.”
Details of tackle used by surf fishermen
on the N.S.W. coast? —999l.
An Bft. rod; a free-running reel; about
200yds. of No. 6 or 8 gut line; a flat sinker
attached to end of line, 2oz. to 4oz. accord-
ing to the state of the surf (the lighter
sinker for the light surf). For whiting,
beach worms are mostly used for bait; for
bream, prawns and a beach shellfish known
as pipi; for larger fish such as jewfisli, small
fish like young tailer are usually employed.
What are the uses of alstonia bark? —
9912.
It is valuable as a febrifuge and a tonic,
and is said to have been used as a flavoring
by English brewers of pale ale, as it does
not produce certain effects attributed to
hops. It has been used in the early stages
of typhoid fever with considerable success.
A yellow 7 dye is also obtained from the bark.
(1) Method of extracting oil from shark
liver? (2) Yield of oil per shark? (3)
Best species of shark for oil producing? —•
9940.
(1) The oil is extracted in a steam-
jacketed kettle of 50-gallons’ capacity. The
livers are placed in the kettle, steam from
a boiler is continually circulated round them,
and in a very short time the liver cells
break down and give tip their oil. (2)
Approximately 28 per cent, of the weight
of the liver, or 18 gallons to a ton of shark.
(3) The tiger shark.
(1) I hate been told that shot-hole borers
do not attack seasoned timber, but only
poorly developed growing trees and felled
logs with a supply of sap in them, Is this
correct? (2) How can shot-hole borers be
distinguished from the powder-post and fur-
n iture beetle? —9966.
(1) Yes. (2) The pow T der-post and fur-
niture beetles attack seasoned timber only,
laying eggs in crevices, etc. Their larva?
pack behind them in their meandering bores
a pow T dery excrement. This falls from the
bores through which they emerged as beetles.
The shot-hole larva? are straight-tunnellers,
their bores are powderles.s and slightly black-
ened.
What constituted (1) a brigade of infan-
try and (2) an artillery brigade in the
British and Australian armies in the Great
War ? —9939.
(1) Until 1918 a formation of four in-
fantry battalions (full strength with trans-
port, etc.. 4080, full fighting strength' 3584,
normal fighting strength, probably about
2500). usually under a brigadier-general. In
1918 British brigades, and some Australian
brigades, were reduced to three battalions.
In the field a British “brigade” corres-
ponded roughly to a foreign “regiment.” (2)
It comprised four (or three) batteries of
field-guns and field-howitzers, usually com-
manded by a lieutenant-colonel. The bat-
tery is the unit of combat of field artillery:
and during the w 7 ar generally consisted of
four or six guns., usually commanded by a
major. Full strength of a four-gun battery
was 198 meji; fighting strength, 138 men.
What area of cypress-pine will one gallon
of paint cover, first and second coat? —
9512. .
A good quality prepareci paint should cover
S 5 to 88 sq. yds. first coat, and 90 to 95
sq. yds. second coat.
Brief Answers.
H II.: In tlie event of vendor’s bankruptcy
you should pay official assignee W.A.J.: During
1929 there were 480 licensed omnibuses in sendee in
Sydney, with a carrying capacity of 13,665 persons.
Passengers carried totalled 89,845,001 and the total
mileage run was 16,911,793 C.M.: N.S.W. unem-
ployment relief tax should be collected in all cases
where wages ylus board and quarters work out at
30s. per week, or over. The maid referred to is
liable to pay tax of 3d. each week. . . .8.W.: In
common speech “leftenant”; in the British navy,
“letenant,” in each case with a slight accent
on the “ten”; in the U.S. navy, “lootenant”....
F. : The desert-chat appears to be confined to the
gibber plains in the Lake Eyre (S.A.) basin. It has
a delicate brown back with a yellowish breast.
Ornithologists regard it as probably belonging to the
same family as other Australian chats S.D.: The
disease can be controlled by a solution of common
washing soda. Dissolve lllb. of soda in a kerosene-
tin (4gal.)' of hot water. Apply while warm....
H.J.Y.: One-year-old mulberry-trees are supplied
cheap by the W.A. Forestry Department, Perth. Other
particulars from H. F. Dunn, Silk Culture Assoc.,
Alice-road, Claremont (W.A.) N.M.C.: The time
of sunrise at Marree is about 13 minutes earlier in
winter and about 17 minutes later in summer than at
Adelaide; near the equinoxes the times are about the
same. The difference is observed by means of clocks
keeping the same standard time W.G.: (1) Yes.
(2) Is now holding co. for L. and N., Tasmania. (3)
Address unchanged. .. .C.E.K.: (1) See the Vic.
“Journal of Agriculture,” August, 1930 (3d.). (2)
The insects appear to be thrips. Spray with nicotine
sulphate, loz. to sgal. of water, at intervals of about
seven days G.R.: Write A. R. Penfold, Curator,
Sydney Technological Museum, Harris-street, Sydney.
. ...J.T.8.: The correct phrase is “For the love of
money is the root of all evil.” It occurs in the
First Epistle to Timothy, chapter vi, verse 10.
. ...0.C.T.: Adam Lindsay Gordon sat in the S.A.
Parliament for Victoria; he was elected in March,
1865, by the anti-squatter interests, defeating the
then Attorney-General and bringing about the down-
fall of the Blyth Ministry. At the end of 1866 he
resigned his seat. In the House he was not a
success; his speeches were long, wandering and full
of unfamiliar classical allusions... .H.A.: (1) Don't
know of any Sydney or Melbourne agents. T. Brown
and Sons, Eagle-street, Brisbane, appear to be the
sole agents. (2) Stephen, King and Son, Melbourne.
. ...L.P.: You can’t claim deduction for that under
either Federal or N.S.W. State income tax. ...
P.J.G.: You can call for replies... .W.M.L.: Graft-
ing wax is obtainable from leading seedsmen at
Is. 6d. per tin; raphia at 2s. per lb R.R.L.:
W. C. Penfold and Co., 88 Pitt-street, Sydney, cau
supply a medium at 2s. per bottle which is mostly
used in water-color painting on glass. .. .F.L.: “The
Cockeyed World” was not viewed by the chief film
censor at Sydney, but was passed with slight altera-
tion by the assistant censor. .. .P.0.R.: Razors are
dutiable at 25 per cent, when of American origin.
Primage duty at 4 per cent, is also payable. An
order for a small quantity would probably be sent
by the suppliers per parcels post to your local post
office and duty would be collected there. .. .A.R.:
It is difficult to see how the brewery could force a
sale of freehold. Read your lease... .J.H.: (1)
Incorporated Law Institute of N. S. Wales, 3 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney. (2) See the Officer-in-Charge,
Legal Aid Department, Queen’s-square, Sydney....
J.S.: E. E. Bartholomew, 205 Flinders-lane, Mel-
bourne... .C.R.W.; Write Secretary, Air Board,
Defence Department, Melbourne.... K.M.P.: Major-
General J. W. Macarthur Onslow sat in the
N.S.W. Leg. Assembly for Waverley from 1907 to 1913,
.for Bondi 1913 to 1920, and for Eastern Suburbs
1920 to 1922. He is now an M.L.C A.M.: (1) An
alderman who has not paid back rates is not barred
from taking his seat at a council meeting in N.S.W 7 .
(2) He could not be fined for doing so. . . .A.P.T. :
Don’t know of any book on subject. Research Officer,
N.SAV. Public Library, Sydney, will help you to
find references to process in trade journals... .E.K.:
Ben Hall was shot by a party of police on May 6,
1865. A similar fate befell Gilbert six days later.
Johnny Dunn escaped for a time, but was caught at
the year’s end and hanged on March 19, 1866.
. ...M.L.F.: See list in “Australian and N.Z.
Writers’ and Artists’ Year Book” (2s. 6d.)....
G. : Write Australian Investment Agency, 79 Pitt-
street, Sydney... .C. 8.: Write Sister-in-Charge, St.
Brigid’s Girls’ Orphanage, Ryde; Mother Rectress,
St. Anne’s Orphanage, Liverpool; or Local Superior,
Mater Dei Orphanage, MareUan—all N.S.W., and
handy to Sydney... .J.J.M.: Write Department of
Family Endowment, Macquarie-street, Sydney....
G. 8.8.: From Clyde Engineering Co., Granville
(N.5.W.)... .W.L.F.: On the death of a patient in
a N.S.W. mental asylum the Master in Lunacy ceases
to administer the estate. The executor of the will,
if there is one, or the person who has obtained
Letters of Administration from the Probate Court,
will take charge in the usual way....H.P.: The
trustees, being also members of the committee, were
entitled to support the concession.... W.M.: (1)
Twenty-five to 30 miles per gallon, according to the
proficiency of the driver. (2) Twenty-seven to 35
miles per gallon. (3) Twenty-five miles per gallon.
(4) Nineteen miles per gallon. (5) The latest
14/32 model engine is said to be much more
efficient than previous models.... W 7 .K.: Soviet Russia
had a population of 147,013,609 at the 1926 census.
.. . .8.F.: Hubert Wilkins, with Lieut. Carl Ben
Eielson, crossed the Arctic Ocean on April 15-16,
1928, from Point Barrow, Alaska, to Doedmanseira
Island, Spitsbergen, a distance of 2200 miles, in
20 hours and 20 minutes. .. .R.M.: T. H. Hicks,
Ltd., High-street, Mascot; G. H. Olding and Sons,
47 Parramatta-road, Glebe; Peter Bros., Phillip-
street, Redfern —all Sydney... .W r .D.: Write N.S.W.
Agriculture Department, Sydney, for report of investi-
gations regarding papermaking from straw. .. .E.J.S.:
To graduate in Veterinary Science at the Sydney
University takes four years and costs in fees £l2O.
Particulars are obtainable from the Registrar....
G.R.V.: A “bull roarer” (in different parts called
churinga, tundun, kunapippi, etc.) is used by abos.
during the initiation of youths to the status of men.
It is a slab of wood or stone so shaped that when it
is whirled round and round, on the end of a string,
it makes a weird noise... .S,L.: The Sheffield Shield
was presented by Lord Sheffield, who in 1891 brought
out a team captained by Dr. W. G. Grace. It was
presented for the encouragement of Australian cricket.
The first Sheffield Shield matches were played in 1892-
93... .F.C.: Government Tourist Bureau, Martin-place,
Sydney W.K.D.: Goulburn (N.S.W.) is named
after Henry Goulburn, who was British Under-Secre-
tary for War and the Colonies from 1812 to 1821.
K.C.: From Dymocks, Sydney, cloth, 265. 3d.;
leather, 365. 6d. (post free) ... .H.F.M.: You must
supply a painting of each bird. If the designs are
placed in a book, one registration fee will be suffi-
cient. Forms are obtainable from the Copyright
Office, Martin-place, Sydney. Fee is 5s R.W.8.:
Les Darcy lost to Bob Whitelaw on points in 1913 ;
to Fritz Holland twice in 1914, once on points and
once on a foul; and to Jeff Smith on a foul in 1915.
.... (Many others mailed.)


y &
r/
&
'
/
Ip®**
A
x::x^*?ft>
«r^
Hw<e
sC
iMgffjj
sfcfs**
n
* #
h& ■
ii&WSr
An Auspicious Start!
IF you choose one of the Orient Line
Royal Mail Steamers upon which to
start your travels, you will make a
fortunate beginning. The Third-class
accommodation is excellent in every
way. Spacious decks, well-ventilated
cabins, cheerful public rooms and
excellent catering combine to secure
the comfort of the passenger.
Nine Grades of Cabins
Further improvements have been made in the Third-
class accommodation in Orient Liners, and passengers
now have choice of nine grades of cabins. SPECIAL
CABINS have been fitted, and each is furnished with
Wardrobe, Chest of Drawers, Compactum, Bootrack
and Bedside Reading Lamps. Other cabins have
Wardrobes and Chest of Drawers. The fares to
London for the nine grades range from £3B to £5O
single, and from £6B to £9O return.
All fares are subject
addition of exchange on
to the
London.
Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
ORIENT LINE
/**
W
m
Mivney.
WILFRED BRACKET'S
CHARMING LITTLE PICTURE OF A GIRL WHO
“KEPT HER BLOCK.”
I HEARD the song before I saw the singer,
for in the rarefied air of the Sundown
Range a whisper can be heard as far as
a round voice on the lowlands, and a clear
singer can be heard a mile. The song con-
tinued, becoming more clear when the singer
reached the gap in a long ridge trailing down
from the Sundown to the valley. The bridle
track from Quartpot township came to the
top of the ridge there, and thence along the
ridge to the Nine Mile—a tinfield of ancient
renown and modern desolation, for only
two or three miners “doin’ a bit of surfacin’ ’’
were working there.
The singer left the track at the gap, and
made a bee-line through a patch of "dead-
finish” scrub and thence towards Black-
water Creek. The dead-finish is a fearsome
thing to most of those who venture near it,
for its thin canes snap at a touch, and the
broken stalk makes a slight scratch which
usually means an inflamed wound and a
swollen and blackened limb, the pain lasting
for many days; but some persons there are
who are wholly immune from these conse-
quences. Clearly the singer was one of
them. Her direction brought her to a point
within a short distance of the overlooking
rocks where I, taking levels for a water-
supply scheme, was standing. There she
stopped and put down a bulky sack she was
carrying, then taking off her man-size felt
hat, she loosed two plaited ropes of gold and
let them hang loose. As it happened she
was then standing beside a grove of green
wattle, and between the rich shining yellow
of their long fingers of blossom and the
hue of her hair there was no shade or
quality of difference. Then replacing her
hat and lifting her bag, she started again
on her way. Unusually tall for a woman,
deep chested and square shouldered she
strode along, and her full-throated song
pealed forth joyously. I cannot say whether
it had words, or whether it was merely a
psean of the triumph of youth and of the
ecstasy of life. It was the song of a true
artist, for her performance required no audi-
ence ; and so she passed on, out of sight
though still within hearing, until she gained
the top of the further ridge. Then she gave
a resounding and re-echoing coo-ee, and I
heard her song no more.
What are departmentally known as “dis-
creet inquiries” at Quartpot discovered the
facts that “Mivney,” the local pronunciation
of the Welsh name Miffawny, lived with her
father on a claim “over that way,” and came
in to the township now and again carrying
some tin to cover her purchases at the
store. She spoke civilly enough to those
who talked to her, but didn’t “make friends
with anyone.” “Mivney looks after herself
as well as she looks after her old man, and
he hasn’t been out of his bed for three years.
So that’ll tell yer,” said Joe Wallender.
It was nearly a month later when I next
saw Mivney, I had camped the previous
night on the Storm King, taking levels on
its flank for a service reservoir, and hastened
to complete the work and get away early,
for a storm threatened, and no storm ever
comes to that district without calling upon
the Storm King, lopping branches and rip-
ping the trunks of green trees near its
summit, and reducing to stove wood and
kindling one or mbre of the dead trees killed
by the wounds of lightning in earlier storms.
I made for the Quartpot track, but the
country was broken and scrubby, and I
was only two or three miles from the King
when the storm came overhead. Then to my
utter surprise, for I thought there was no one
living near, I suddenly came in sight of a
miner’s hut. I ran for it. The door was
closed but it bore a strip of cardboard, on
which appeared the word “Holler.” I “hol-
lered” accordingly, and presently Mivney,
stooping low, came out of a four-foot drive
in the bank on the other side of a little
creek twenty yards away. She wore a felt
hat, corduroys and a butchgr-blue drill shirt,
open at the throat. She stayed a few
moments at the creek and washed her face
and hands, and then came up carrying a
liammcr-headed pick. A pick is a handy
weapon.
“You’ll come in,” she said as she opened
the door. “Dad’s inside, but he’s past tak-
ing notice of anyone much.” Dad, emaciated
and apparently in the last stage of some
wasting disease, lay on a comfortable bag-
bunk. Mivney first went, to him and kissed
his hand, and then he shook hands weakly
with me. His voice was scarcely audible,
his w r ords hardly intelligible.
“He’s been just like that for months now,”
she said. “I don’t think much that he’ll ever
get better.”
The storm broke with terrific force and
with torrents of rain. I was loath to stay,
but Mivney, with evident sincerity, insisted
that I should do so. “There’s no moon, and
no track, and it’s a long five miles to the
Quartpot track, and five flooded creeks to
cross. Better for you to sleep in the little
shed than to be out in this. I can’t sleep
there, for I’ve got to look to Dad.”
I still hesitated.
“I know whom I can trust,” she said, “and
you have no call to be afraid of me.” And
as she spoke she took off the hat she was
still wearing and let the wattle-yellow braids
display their full length. There was nothing
coquettish about her action ; it was a simple
gesture of confidence and hospitality. Later
on, at the township, I heard with some
delight that Mivney had described me as
“a plain man, and decent-spoken,” for in the
bush the word “plain” applied to a man is
a veritable hymn of praise.
We had a royal meal that night. I was
able to contribute two wonga pigeons and
some brush quail and parrots, and Mivney
stewed these with the scarlet-runner beans:
then with the rain still pounding on the bark
roof above us she told me of herself.
“Dad used to be working for a company
on the Dalcoath, and we lived at Wombat
once, and when that shut down he did some
surfacing for a time, but there was only
tucker in tha*t; and then he got on to this
place. He used to camp in the shed you’re
sleeping in to-night, and come in to us
week-ends; made good money too. Then
mother died and*. my word, w 7 e had a good
funeral! About the biggest ever there was
at ,Wombat! Then Dad brought me out
here, and that made me real proud. It was
the hrst time ever I had a< man and a house
to look after, and there’s not been a day wet
or fine that I haven’t swept in front of the
door. Lonely? Oh, well, it’s five miles from
the next house, and the only people that
ever come is Johnny Greig, the tin-buyer,
and Jim. Dad wants me to marry Jim when
he dies, and I want to. Nice feller, Jim.
Never anything flash about him, a«nd he’s a
real good worker. He comes some-
times on Sundays, but not often. l r ou see
it’s a long way to come.”
I feebly suggested that “five miles from the
next house,” seemed a long way.
“Well, of course it is,” she said, “and
that’s why I brought along the prorspecting
pick when I hea*rd you. A thing like that
would be handy if one of the flash sort came
along. But you can’t be real lonely in a
place like this! When there’s no water
you’re belting in to get as much wash stacked
as you can, and when the rain comes, it’s
magpie to morepork while the wa<ter lasts.
I put mine all through last week.”
She went to a tin bag under her bunk and
took out a handful of the ore. It was a
splendid sample. Black, amber and ruby, and,
as generally happens when there is a- good
show of ruby, there was not a trace of black
sand.
At intervals I went over and sat by Dad,
but I doubt whether he understood my
speech any better than I understood him.
To me it seemed that he had but a few
hours to live.
“lie's been just like that for months,”
sa<id Mivney, sensing my thought; “but I
think he is quite happy in his mind.” And
she went over and “fixed his pillow” and
pressed his forehead with her lips.
At “magpie” next morning Mivney showed
me round. The scaylet-runners, growing
luxuriantly as they always do near a tin-
miner’s hut, were strongly staked, with the
poles at the correct slope for convenience
of gathering the crop, and in neatly-kept
beds were cabbages and spinach.
“Dad always said tinminers ought to
have plenty of vegetables to go with salt-
beef,” she explained.
Then we went to the tunnel she was work-
ing. It was in a good run of wash, and she
proudly showed me the seam of wash-dirt
that she was working on.
“She’s a jeweller’s shop, don’t you think?”
she asked holding the candle so as to show
the sparkle and glitter of the tin crystals.
“There were ‘slippery-heads’ where the close
timbering is, but I showed it to Jim, and
lie said ‘any man ought to be glad to sleep
under it, it was that safe.’ ”
I looked at it critically. Jim’s commen-
dation was no flattery.
I don’t mind saying that I knelt by the
old man’s bedside before I left, and I’m
sure he and Mivney were glad that I did.
And so was I.
Some weeks afterwards I met Mivney at
the Quartpot post office, and while we
awaited the arrival of “Little Fat Tommy
the Spieler,” who brought the mail from
Wombat, we sat on a log while she told me
her nows.
“Poor old Dad went off so gradual I
really hardly know whether he died on the
Tuesday or the Wednesday. I came up to
Quartpot and told the sergeant, and
he said I could bury him, and I sent word
to Jim, but Tommy forgot to leave the
letter going, so Jim didn’t get it till Tommy
■was coming back, and when ho came I’d got
the grave dug. I’d always been wondering
whether the run of tin I was working on
near the creek came from higher up the
hill, so I sank there thinking to try it, but
I bottomed it on granite ‘dig’ at six feet.
Jim and me buried him in that hole, and
then Jim camped in the shed till we’d got
out the wash I showed you, and when we d
washed up we fenced the grave and put up
a cross about six feet high. Poor old Dad!
I’m not crying about him, though, because
when he was ill he always seemed to know 7
he’d strike a good patch Over There.”
Joe Wallender, who “witnessed the wed-
ding” a<t Wombat, said that Mivney kept her
block all right, but Jim ran a bit green
and was late leaving the barrier in the
Kissing-the-Bride Stakes, but Mivney did all
right for a novice. “Girls don’t have to be
taught the kissing,” he said—“they get it
from their mothers. But you can take it
from me that, next to Monny, Mivney’s the
best and straightest girl ever lived in this
district.”
Mentally I took down Monny’s name and
placed Mivney first, Monny second. Joe
is a truthful person, but a man is apt to
be prejudiced in favor of the girl he is
going to marry next week.
Gentlemen Prefer Blondes.
She’s bright as a shilling and precious as
gold,
A tonic to youth and a spice to the old;
She sings like the blackbird at eve in the
wood,
And her eye is so wicked she makes mo feel
good.
Her eye is so blue and her lip is so red
It's just like the bubbly that goes to your
head;
Her smile is so fetching it sends a man mad,
And she’s so good-looking she makes me feel
bad.
I’d like to have magic and weave her a spell
And put it all over this ravishing belle.
And wrap her up tiny and make her a charm
To wear on my watch-chain and keep me
from harm.
MAOKILAND.
ARNOLD WALL.


Commonwealth Conversion
and Redemption Loan
PUBLIC MEN DECLARE
ITS VITAL IMPORTANCE
Here are the Considered Opinions of Men who are
Leaders in their Separate Spheres
Chairman of the Loan Council —
Hon. J. A. LYONS
“The prompt meeting of this loan is a national obliga-
tion as clear and inescapable as any issue faced in War-time."
Chairman of the Electricity Commission of Victoria-
Sit JOHN MONASH
"Let us demonstrate and emphasise our faith in our
country at this time of national emergency. No one must
hesitate. The issues are too vital."
Chairman of the Associated Banks —
Mr. C, H. TRANTER
“Support for this loan will do much to restore confi-
dence, and it is confidence that We want most of all now
to start us on the upward grade again."
Federal President of the Returned Soldiers’ League —
Captain G. J. C. DYETT
“/ see this Conversion Loan as a grand opportunity
for Australia to demonstrate definitely that she is sound and
true. I appeal strongly to Australians to support it."
Leader of the Opposition —
Hon. J. G. LATHAM
“As Leader of the Opposition I join whole-heartedly
with the Treasurer in emphasising the importance of making
a success of this Conversion. It will be a test of the con-
fidence of Australians in their own country.”
General Secretary of the Australian Workers’ Union —
Mr. E. GRAYNDLER, M.L.C.
“It is the best investment in the World."
General Manager of the National Mutual Life
Association of Australasia, Ltd . —
Mr. E. J. STOCK
“/ hope the public will realise immediately the need
for successful conversion and the admirable investment that
is offered. The loan is an excellent proposition, both from
the business and the patriotic viewpoint.”
Secretary of the Theatrical Employees’ Union
Mr. A. E. HUCKERBY
“My union has already invested money in bonds, and
I have no doubt that We will favorably consider a proposal
to re-invest.”
Interest:
6 PER CENT.
51 PER CENT.
5i PER CENT.
FOR 2 YEARS
FOR 10 YEARS
FOR 20 YEARS
Interest will be subject to Commonwealth Taxation, but will be
FREE OF STATE INCOME TAX.
CONVERT YOUR DECEMBER HOLDINGS, OR MAKE A CASH SUBSCRIPTION
Bonds will be issued for £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £lOOO. Stock will be inscribed for £lOO and multiples of £lO
above £lOO. The issue is an investment authorised by the Trustees Acts of the several States.
Applications may be lodged at any Bank, Savings Bank, Money Order Post Office, or with any member of a
recognised Stock Exchange.
Commonwealth Treasury,
Canberra.
J. A. LYONS,
Acting Treasurer.


REPAIRS.
OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS.”
Firearms sent C.O.D.
gfdfdg
The Famous Hollis 12-gauge Guns
specially made for me to suit Australian
Conditions.
Hollis “Foxey” Hammer Model, £l3
Hollis Special Hammerless
Model £2l
Specifications for both Guns: 30- or 32-inch
Barrels, both full choke, chambered for 3in.
cartridges, high file cut rib, treble wedge
fast crossbolt (hammer model side clips),
selected English walnut stock, weight 7-Jlb. to
81b. each. POST FREE.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
’Phone, MA3540.
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
143 b ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
(near Market Street).
“Fishing Tackle to Tackle Fishing.”
m
m
/m
w. . <■
3£§E4Z^
WHEN BMC Iff
EYES CLANCE/
More precious than the richest gems are a pair
of healthy, laughing eyes. Be on your guard
against Inflammation and Disease. If the eyes
are overstrained or bloodshot or afflicted with
Sandv Blight, Scaly Eyelids, Granulation, etc.,
treat with ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION
according to directions. This famous Lotion not only
soothes and heals tired and inflamed Eyes, but restores
the natural brightness and strengthens the sight.
ROSE'S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION provides a
simple, rational treatment that is safe for people of
all ages.
Every reputable Chemist and Storekeeper sells it.
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: SONS O’ GUNS.
CRITERION: POSSESSIONS.
I. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE CINGALEE.
COMEDY THEATRE:
PEG O’ MY HEART.
OICKARDS’ TIV O L I THEATRE,
• MELBOURNE.
TWICE DAILY, at 2.50 and 8 p.m.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents
THE NEW REVUE
VANITY FAIR,
With a Brilliant Cast of Popular Favorites.
Popular Pre-war Prices.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Colin Stephen, the A.J.C. chairman, had
the pleasure of seeing his little mare Voleuse,
of his own breeding, win the principal race
at Warwick Farm on Saturday. The
daughter of Magpie—Vole showed distinct
promise as a two-year-old, but at three years
she was not successful. Returning after a
spell, she captured a mile Welter at Rose-
hill on Nov. 1 and ran a good fourth in the
Highweight Handicap at Randwick on Nov.
15, so she was fancied at the Farm, having
given the impression that she likes a middle
distance. Ridden, by Reynolds, she came
into the straight with a good lead, and at
the finish had a couple of lengths’ advantage
from tjie topweight, Lord Eudorus, who was
followed by Stormy and Lord Kennaquhair.
Stormy looks rather well, and should pick
up a race presently, especially if he strikes a
wet track.
Voleuse was favorite (at threes) and so
was Bennick (evens), a well-set-up Maori-
land-bred gelding, by Tea Tray—After Glow,
who annexed the first division of the Nursery
Handicap. But there was little money for
Marching Orders (14 to 1) in the second
division of the Nursery—he is raced by the
executors of the late John Brown —less for
Wedding Feast (20 to 1) in a division of
the Maiden Handicap, and none at all —in
the ring at least —for Lad, winner of the
Varroville Handicap. Lad is a grey tliree-
year-old by Chrysolaus—Sita; to the delight
of the bookmakers he beat the only two that
were backed at all, Circuline (3 to 1) and
the squibby Vallar (2 to 1). Il’is party did
not have a shilling on him in the ring; on the
tote his div. was £25 Bs. for 10s. and
£l4 3s. 6d. for 55., and there were two others.
The good-looking Black Douglas runs his
best races at the Farm. Those who remem-
bered this profited by his success in the
Macquarie Grove Handicap, for which the
big fellow (he is by Rossendale —Tinkling)
was backed from eights to 9 to 2. He won
comfortably from a three-jear-old, Sunlit
Reef (14 to 1), and the consistent Antiochus ;
the rider of Sunlit Reef unavailingly entered
a protest. The favorite. Shrill Trill, was
fourth; she should do better at seven fur-
longs. Staroff (fifth) shaped like an early
winner.
sji * * *
For Moorefield on Saturday:—
Maiden Handicap: Purveyor.
Three- and Four-year-old Handicap: Pas-
ticcio ; next, Shylock.
Flying Handicap: Gay Ballerina; next,
Golden Voice.
Anzac Relief Handicap: Lord Kennaqu-
hair ; next, Stormy.
Carlton Mile : Shrill Trill; next, Snowcap.
Having turned Phar Lap out for a spell,
Harry Telford has begun to make his pres-
ence felt in Melbourne as a trainer of juveniles,
of whom he has a number in hand. La
Justice made herself famous by winning
the Maribyrnong Plate, and, with big en-
gagements in view for the autumn, she is
unlikely to compete for small summer stakes.
However, Iladagain and Old Ming—belong-
ing to the same owner, “F. Smithden,” of
Sydney—were produced at the Epsom meet-
ing. Hadagain (by Shillinglee) missed a
place in the first division of the Two-year-
old Handicap, but Old Ming (Caravel-
Jean Roxburgh) won the next heat, being
followed home by Burbot and the favorite.
Dermid. If he had not. tried to run off
rhe course near the home turn, Dermid would
have been farther forward at the finish.
His owner-trainer, Donohoe, took the Tip-
pler colt back to Sydney next day.
Old Ming resembles Phar Lap in shape
and color. He shifted about a good deal
before settling down in the last furlong, to
win by a neck from Burbot (by Green-
stead). who tired. Auto Pay, the first-divi-
sion winner, was bred in Maoriland, and is
probably the most massive youngster in
training in Melbourne. His dam, La Paix,
produced Pay Paix to Paper Money; his
sire is Tea Tray.
The first three events at Epsom went to
horses carrying No. 1 saddle-cloth. Pamona (5
to 1) led from start to finish in the. Plate,
beating the favorite, Spouter, by a length;
Pterlaw and the rank outsider Caravena
made a dead heat for third place. Caravena,
like Old Ming, is by Caravel. She belongs
to F. S. Meyers.
As long as racing lasts in Australia, Dun-
can will be remembered as the champion
jockey who returned to the saddle after
having fractured his neck. For months on
end Duncan was in hospital, and when
he was discharged the specialists declared
that it would be suicidal for him to
resume riding. By sheer persistency Billy
secured a renewal of his license. He did
not immediately recover form, and weak-
kneed supporters began to fear that the old
dash and skill had been lost. Duncan con-
HIS GOOD DEED FOR THE DAY.
founded critics by a magnificent victory on
Hellenist at Epsom. Starting a firm favo-
rite for the 11-mile event, Hellenist was at
pains to follow the fast pace set by Opera
Queen, Sartaress and Mira Donna. Mira
Donna led into the straight from Lampra.
Forcing a passage through the field, Duncan
rode Hellenist with the whip for more than
a furlong, getting up in the last stride to
vanquish Lampra by half a head. It. was
one of the best efforts of his career..
Scudalong, trained at Fiemington by E.
Hayes for Molloy, the Sydney bookmaker,
was allowed to go out at 14 to 1 for the
Brush Steeplechase. The Demosthenes geld-
ing suffered seriously by being carried out
at the home turn by the favorite, Appellant;
hut he finished like a bulldog, winning by
a neck from Wee Stello, with Appellant only
half a neck farther away. Appellant be-
longs to and is trained by F. W. McCabe,
who won valuable jumping events m years
gone by on Obi and Bullawarra, and while
in England rode over the Aintree course at
Liverpool. The course record for about
two miles and 16 chains ’ over fences was
equalled by Scudalong, who is in fine tnm
just now. At one stage Sir VN ldgee led by
25 lengths, but he compounded half a mile
from home and ran last..
Emerson, by Brakespear (son of Spear-
mint), earned distinction as a sire when
hi s live-year-old son, Royalson, unexpectedly
accounted for Epsom Purse rivals over a
mile and a half journey. When in training
Emerson won several good stakes for 1•
Purches, who had the old-time champions
Portsea and Patron. With Cape Borda
a pronounced favorite, and Spring Chimes
and Madrid solidly backed, odds of 15 to 1
went begging about Royalson, who took
charge five furlongs from home and scored
very easily from Cape Borda. The- last
event went to Birthday Girl, who was im-
ported from England eight months ago.
Judged on Williamstowu Cup Day form, she
looked a fair thing, yet she drifted from
5 to 2to 7 to 2. Dempsey waited patiently
for a last-minute effort, and she won bril-
liantly. , * *
* * * *
For Sandown Park on Saturday:—
Two-year-old Handicap : Auto Pay; next,
Hadagain. , _ .
Sandown Park Handicap: Gay Salute:
next, Speargirl.
* * * *
“Durdans”: An English sporting statisti-
cian has been reckoning up the incomes of
some of the leading British jockeys. Gordon
Richards, England’s champion, is said to make
£25,000 a year, his retainers for first, second
and third calls running to close on £lO,OOO.
Then there are riding fees, and the inevit-
able presents and percentages which should
easily account for the balance. I ox,
Richards’s chief rival, earns almost as much,
one retainer alone being £2500 p.a.
“Brownie” Carslake, of Australia, who gave
up training some time ago to go back to
riding, has a £2OOO retainer from Solly Joel
and £5OO a year from another owner. _ The
peach of the lot to ride for, it is said, is
the Aga Khan. He gives his jockey, Beary,
only £2500 a year, but when he gets a win
—and he has had some good ones this season
—fairly empties his pockets.
“Thormanby” : Craganour, recently dead in
the Argentine, where he was at the stud
lor years, is the only Derby winner, outside
the notorious ring-in, Running Rein, who
won in 1844, to have been disqualified for
the famous Epsom classic. He finished first
at 6 to 4 in 1913, in the race in which a
suffragette threw herself in front of King
George’s horse with fatal results to her-
self, while she brought horse and rider
crashing into the bargain. In the confusion
there was a lot of humping, hut Craganour
eventually got home from Aboyeur, a 100-to-
-1 shot. Though the “all right” flag was
hoisted, and Aboyeur’s owner entered no
protest, the stewards took a hand and dis-
qualified Craganour, awarding the race to
Aboyeur.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Filipino Hermenegildo Baquio, or “Young
Gildo,” is punching with success at the
Leichhardt Stadium. After heating Billy
McAlister in 10 rounds on November 11,
he stopped Jerry Sullivan in 11 last Friday
night. Sullivan (9.0) proved pluckier than
McAlister, and gave Gildo (8.10) many
anxious moments early. When some rignt
swings stung the veteran (Sullivan lias been
slinging leather since late in 1910) in round
three, however, Jerry depended on fighting
spirit more than physical force to see him
through. He was badly beaten just before
the eleventh ended, and the referee humanely
intervened.
* -!: * *
An attack of the ’flu compelled Jack
Carroll to withdraw from his tussle with
Italian-American Tony Tuzzolini at. Sydney
Stadium, and another programme, with Jack
O’Malley (12.4) and Leo Bandias (11.11)
as principal pugs, wac substituted. Ban-
dias hails from Melbourne, and is a recent
recruit from the amateur ranks, while
O'Malley has met most of our leading pro.
heavies, including champion George Thomp-
son. The opposition was too experienced tor
Bandias, O’Malley winning on points. The
decision would probably have been reversed,
if the beaten boxer had done as much fighting
as dancing out of danger. O’Malley forced
from start to finish, and Bandias kept
backing away. The referee’s ruling was
right, though the crowd did not unanimously
agree with it.
The Ins and Outs
Though short of practice and not yet
attuned to the fast Australian pitches, the
West Indies team made a first-class impres-
sion when they opened their first match at
Sydney Cricket Ground. They scored only
188 after a start which promised better
things, but they were up against three
Test-match bowlers and Chilvers, ot whom
a lot is expected. The outstanding
feature of their batting is the sound style
of the leading players, English influence
being strongly marked. Men like Roach,
Headley and Birkett, to name only tliiee,
are likely to make many runs in Australia,
while, with one or two exceptions, no one
seemed to be troubled especially by the slow
bowling, which is supposed to be their bug-
bear. Constantine, out to an almost miracu-
lous catch off a fine stroke, showed during
his few minutes at the wickets that the fire
and force of his batting has not been exag-
gerated. As a bowler he is really fast, with
an almost perfect action and a great nip
off the pitch. Francis is little inferior m
pace or style, and St. Hill, a fast medium
right-hander, also showed form. Scott could
not find a length with his right-hand slows.
In the field, almost without exception the
visitors were fast and accurate, and as keen
as mustard.
The chief contributors to the West Indians’
first innings were Uoacli with a polished 43,
L. S. Birkett (31), Grant (30) and G.
Headley (25). Chilvers took 4 for 84 with
his slows, and was backed by I air fax (3-4-»
and McCabe (3-23).. The first N.S.W. knock
saw Fairfax and Bill out for 71 at stumps.
A big crowd came out in boisterous weather
to see the home side make a huge score after
the good start. Constantine and Francis
had other ideas on the matter, and though
Bradman ran to a characteristic 73 before
Francis trapped him with a slower ball, only
a clean-hit 32 by Allsopp saved N.SA\ . from
being headed; it made 207. Constantine
helped by a howling southerly, bowled
with rare judgment to take 4 for 44, his
victims being Fairfax, Kippax, McCabe and
Jackson. Francis, with 3 for 38. was little
his inferior, while the fielding was excellent.
When rain stopped play in the afternoon
W.I had lost Roach. Martin and Birkett
for 61. On Monday it took the score to 241;
Headley (82) and Grant (44) made a great
stand for the second wicket, and Constantine
hit viciously for 59. including 5 sixers.
Chilvers took 5 for 75.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Jack Ryder, whose benefit
match in Melbourne will net him over
£2OOO, has not been appreciated at his
true worth outside Victoria. He has
nevertheless, a distinguished record m
big cricket, his bowling, when in his
prime proving often as useful to nis side
as his inspiring* batting. Perhaps his finest
performance Avas his double of 201 n.o. and 88
against Gilligan’s 1924-25 side in Adelaide,
when he practically pulled the third Test
out of the fire for Australia. Captaining a
losing side against Chapman’s team four
years later, he dropped in public estimation,
and this had a lot to do with Ins
rejection by the selectors of the side whiou
Woodfull led so successfully in England. His
28 Test innings averaged 44.16, while his
13 wickets cost 48.46 apiece.
(Continued on next page.)
The “Tour dc Tasmania” was won by
Hubert Opperman, the Victorian turning the
tables on the French crack Mauclair, who
defeated him in the Sydne.v-Melbourne event.
Aggregate times for the three stages of the
run were: Opperman, 19hr. 43mm. Bsec.;
Mauclair, 19hr. 47min. 17sec.
THE ONE THING NEEDFUL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The N.S.W. cricket authorities have decided on
jomplete covering of the wicket for Sheffield Shield
matches.’’
“Why do they cover up the pitch
With such close and loving care?
Is there something, Dad, in 'the Bulli soil
That wind would ruffle or rain might spoil,
Like the wave in a flapper’s hair?”
“They would keep it true as a bowling-
green
And smooth as a maiden’s gloves,
Or the shirt-front worn with your evening
clothes,
A pitch that the sweating bowler loathes
And the grinning batsman loves.”
“But isn’t it tough on the trundlers, Dad,
Their guns this way to spike,
And tlieir lot make harder —with centuries
As thick as mites in a Stilton cheese
Or fleas on a nigger’s tyke?”
“They must bear it as best they can, my son,
They must do just what they can do.
For rain-soaked wickets, by hot suns dried,
Might see—you never can tell —a side
Mown down in an hour or two.”
“But even if such a thing befall,
Dad, need one worry much?
Would the game not brighten if bowlers
bowled
Like the mighty men of the days of old,
Spofforths and Boyles and such?”
“Nay, that were a thing the heads, my son,
Would shudder to contemplate.
Three days, or a couple, might see the end
Of a match, a happening God forefend!
What hell ’twould play with the gate !”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


r-3^
_u
M
30
tit*
R S
/-
r
Mttm*
1
522
HEZZ
!*Sr
a?
*
/
/~
ft
2 J)>»"
JD
«
m
\\ •
1
m
A*
ii
ii
STERN
r
Mia^S
I^ITISH
ItyEaß&e tte© acquaintance
BIUIISH
STERUTOI
nMumm om
mull befil«nd§ Cos' life/
Manufactured by Sternol, Ltd., an old-established
English firm with over half a century’s experience in
the oil trade, Sternol Motor Oil has earned a reputation
that could only be gained by a product of the highest
quality.
This is substantiated by the fact that in England,
Messrs. Sternol, Ltd., are supplying
The Air Ministry,
The Admiralty,
The War Office,
and many other Government Departments.
Sternol W.W. has been used and recommended by the
Austin Motor Co. (Birmingham), Ltd., for 1 1 years,
and has the official recommendation of Messrs. Morris
Motors (1926), Ltd., and is approved in England by
such well-known car manufacturers as
Messrs. General Motors, Ltd.
(Buick, Cadillac, Chevrolet, Oldsmobile),
Messrs. Dodge Bros., Ltd.,
Messrs. Singer & Co., Ltd.,
Messrs. Vulcan Motors (London), Ltd.,
Messrs. William Beardmore & Co., Ltd., etc.
O'fVo^
■v£
,\\\
A
\><?
Vi'' 1 „6 £
.\o*
•*J r%
X V' v\e
_ e-* A b°°
. o v
,-\>* -ffV &
»*
O*
<*>
►«*
A e uA c^
A e
*V®
fv^ 5
For your convenience and greater economy Sternol is being
sold in special
FIVE-GALLON DRUMS
Fitted with a Free Brass Tap.
This drum has proved very popular with motor owners, who
are thus assured of a plentiful supply of clean, fresh oil for the
car engine.
(Also available in 1-gal. and 4-gal. tins and 45-gal. drums.)
Obtainable Only From
/NVdMay?swsai wmtiim
SYDNEY:
175 Clarence Street
MELBOURNE:
521-523 Collins Street
ADELAIDE:
157 Waymouth Street
PERTH:
432-436 Murray Streef


GERTI ISNT that MV BALL ?'"
Bert /‘No, It's mine”
QertThow DO VOU KNOW ITS
VOURS ? "
Bert;*Because l remember gettihg,
IT THE SAME WSY AS vou ARE
TR-VINC, "TO <3|ET IT ROW V •
Th«s Ins and Outs
“Ilotham”: The Ryder benefit match in
Melbourne fizzled out rather unconvincingly
in a draw, after three days of play, rain
stopping the match on Monday. Australia
ran to 367, a lead of 74 on the first knock.
Ironmonger and that other ancient, Mailey,
took 3 wickets each. Rigg (74) and the
beneficiary (65 n. 0.) helped the rest to 191
for 3 when the innings was closed. Aus-
tralia lost 5 for 96 in trying to get the runs,
Blackie this time distinguishing himself with
the ball. Bradman’s share was 29, Mailey
again getting him. In spite of the bad
weather, the King of Oollingwood will reap
a decent profit, the net returns being rated
at £2500.
* if * *
“Cainscross”: The late A. C. M. Croome
(B. 19/11/’3O) was a good all-round athlete
before golf obsessed him in middle life. He
was two years in the Oxford Eleven (’BB-
- and won his blue as a hurdler as well.
He wrote interestingly on many games. A
single anecdote of his about “W.G.” does
much to explain why the Old Man, who was
apt to be a trifle domineering among players
of his own standing, was so idolised by young
cricketers. Grace gave Croome a trial for
Gloucestershire on the strength of liis ’'Var-
sity achievements, and in his very first
county match the young man had his stumps
skittled by the first ball lie received. He
told how he walked back to the pavilion
crushed and miserable; lie hadn’t even an
excuse to offer, for the ball had beaten him
all the way. The Old Man was waiting for
hipi, pulling his beard thoughtfully, and it
occurred to Croome that if anything were
needed to fill his cup of bitterness to the
brim, the captain might provide it. But
what the Old Man did say was simply:
“Croome, I’m darned glad you got that ball
instead of me!”
jJj
“Old Q.”: Queensland social and sporting
circles are greatly perturbed over the news
that Duleepsinhji lias changed liis mind —or
had it changed for him by Uncle Ranji—
in the matter of coming to live in Queens-
land and there study the mystery of sheep-
farming. All sorts of castles in the air
were built on the strength of the young
man’s visit, and it was even hoped that he
might figure for Queensland in the Sheffield
Shield matches, for he would have been
eligible. Why the idea was abandoned is
not certain, but probably the Indian Raj bad
something to say in the matter. Cricketers
will be especially disappointed, for many
would like to have seen the man who im-
proved so quickly since liis first visit here
with Arthur Gilligan’s team last year as to
become the outstanding English batsman in
the Test matches a few months later.
•?»
“Aigburth”: Don Bradman’s long-heralded
book on cricket is off the presses. Warner has
written a dedication, but few cricket writers
escape that. Plum has little to say about
the author’s cricket save that he is certain
Bradman will some day play a first-class
innings of “between 600 and 700.” Most
of the rest of the article is devoted to an
appreciation of the size of Bradman’s feet,
which suggests that Plum is getting a little
over-ripe.
* # * *
“Shrewsbury”: At the official dinner to
the West Indies team in Sydney last week
skipper Gi’ant aroused mixed feelings by
referring to the “touching welcome” extended
to him and his mostly dusky following by
the people of Sydney. As some person un-
known had gone through the pockets of
seme of the visitors the previous day when
they had left their clothes in the dressing-
room while practising at the Sydney Cricket
Ground, it was felt that the phrase might
have been couched in less ambiguous terms.
However, the skipper was evidently in deadly
earnest, and the incident passed off. Ali
the same, it was an unfortunate welcome to
the tourists. Their departure, too, promises
to be attended by something of the same sort
when the Income-tax Commissioner gets his
fine work in.
* * =1: *
“Tenth Slip” : Alan Ivippax, who started his
Australian season so well with a three-figure
score against South Australia in Sydney the
other day, always had a weakness for the
Wheatfieiders’ bowling, the knock of 104
being his seventh in these matches. Though
he finally established himself on the English
tour, Kippax has never had his cricket ability
appreciated at its true worth in his own
State. Yet M. A. Noble is the only N.S.W.
batsman wlio has made more runs in the
Sheffield series, and he promises soon to be
overtaken by the Waverley man, who has
plenty of inter-State cricket ahead of him
yet.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Lancaster Park”: Maoriland has com-
pleted arrangements for the team to visit
England next season, the side sailing from
Wellington on March 28 via Panama. Selec-
tors have received instructions to make good
fielding an essential, and no player inclined
to be a dud in out-cricket is to be picked.
The tour will include only one Test, a three-
day affair beginning at Lord’s on June 27.
A special request has been made to the Aus-
tralian Board of Control to sijnd over a
team for the All Blacks to sharpen their
teeth on before departing to twist the lion’s
tail. With a heavy Sheffield and West Indies
programme running into March, this seems
hardly possible.
Racquet and Bawl
“Hotliam”: Both N.S.W. and Victoria
fire scratching to find a team for the annual
inter-State match, which will be played in
Melbourne next month. Willard is not avail-
able for the Ma State side, while Hopman is
a doubtful starter, having developed a “leg.”
However, he has been chosen with Jack
Crawford, and the other places have been
filled by Sproule, Donohue and Dunlop, with
the junior Dave Thompson whipping in.
The last selection lias given a lot of satis-
faction, the youngster showing signs of be-
coming a brilliant player. Victoria is also
weakened by the withdrawal of O’Hara
Wood, and will probably place chief reliance
on Clemenger and Schlesinger, both in the
veteran class. Pat Wood, by the way, lias
joined the ranks of the professionals, and
will specialise in coaching promising young-
sters. He lias been doing this for some time
in an honorary capacity.
“Kaikoura”: Australian tennis-players
will see a fine woman exponent of the. game
in action early next year if Dulcie Nicholls
carries out her present intention of crossing
the Tasman to have a shy at the Australian
titles. It is a long time since a Maoriland
woman player has been seen in Australia,
and it is difficult to gauge comparative form.
In the Shivery Isles Miss Nicholls is classed
by some as the equal of Daphne Akhurst at
her best. If successful she intends to go
on to Wimbledon to put Joan Fry, Betty
Nuthall and others through their paces.
“Susie Swattit”: Perusal of an American
account of the women’s championships re-
cently held over there makes a girl’s mouth
water. The club at which the tourneys were
held provided all the girls with changing
cubicles and lockers free of charge, with a
masseuse in attendance. Also every competitor
received 'an invitation to the official luncheon,
while all had the free run of the daily feed
throughout the tourney. Finally, tea was
served free to everyone in a specially
equipped ladies’ lounge into which no mere
male was permitted to butt. In this country
all the above conveniences and courtesies are
conspicuous by their absence. About the only
thing Australian officials do for female com-
petitors in their tournaments is the extrac-
tion of the entrance fees.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Shelf”: Nowhere does the popular idol
who is tottering on his pedestal receive less
sympathy than in America. Walter Hagen,
not so long ago the “Napoleon of Golf” to
his countrymen, is beginning to realise this.
He lias had a poor spin tnis year, having
failed to get through the eliminating tests
in any of the big events, and many journals
are now hailing him as a has-been, or as one
of them puts it “a player who has lost
ambition and is badly bored by it all.” How-
ever Walter is a trier of the toughest fibre,
and will probably astonish liis critics by a
sensational return to form. He will have a
fine chance in the next British open cham-
pionship. H'e and Bobby Jones have each
won this event three times, and Walter is
desperately anxious to better the record of
the amateur. He is only 38, anyway—young
for a golfer.
* * * *
“Iconoclast” : One of the delights of ocean
travel up to a few years ago was its com-
plete isolation from all the cares and pests
of the outside world. Things have changed
for the worse since then, and radio has made
retreat and retrospection impossible. A
new curse has now been added to this state
of. affairs by the institution of miniature
golf-courses on many ocean-liners. It is
not the game of golf itself that hurts so
much, but the way its addicts talk about
it even in their sleep, and, what is worse,
when you yourself are thinking of just clos-
ing your eyes on a warm afternoon and
losing yourself —you all know what I mean.
What seems to be the limit is contained in
a cabled announcement that the Prince of
Wales has suggested the laying down of a
real grass-green on a liner in which he is
shortly to travel to South America. I have
always had the greatest respect for young
Ned, but when I heard that I felt like count-
ing him out, as the Light Horse details did
at Serapeum once, when he forgot to ask
that the canteen be opened earlier than usual
in honor of his visit..
* * * *
“The McHaggis” : The writer of that para-
graph (B. 19/11/’3O) concerning the tense
anxiety of N.S.W. bowling clubs over the
question of the permissibility of the sale of
alcoholic liquor on Sundays completely forgot
that the noble army of golfers was in a
similar fix. The subsequent decision that no
schnapps will be available on the seventh
day of the week augurs ill for some golf
clubs of my acquaintance. Many of the
ostensible playing members of these have
never been able to distinguish a brassey
from a niblick, and would no more think of
exposing themselves to the. hazards of the
course than they would say “when” as the
other fellow was dispensing: the Ferintosh.
Their sole reason for joining has been the
opportunity for carrying on- through the
drought. Of course, the situation will be
saved in a way by the locker system, whereby
a man may take his own -liquor to his club
on the Sabbath, That will not appeal to
the folk I have in mind, If they have to
cart their drinks, anywhere they will take
them home and save", the extra expense of a
golf club subscription.
}J; $ :Jc #
“Amateur Pro”: It is not often that an
Australian amateur golfer turns pro., though
D. G. Soutar and H'. Sinclair are two notable
instances in N.S.W. The latest to where
the money is is L. W. Hore, like Sinclair,
a Moore Park player. A young, man, he is
acknowledged as one of the finest amateurs in
the State, although he has not yet managed to
do anything outstanding in the big tourneys.
The question of his admission to the Pro-
fessional Golfers’ Association of. N.S.W. is
giving that body considerable food -for
thought. Under the rules, an applicant for
membership must have served as a pro. with
a club, or have been apprenticed to a club
pro., for two years before he is eligible.
However, there are plenty of freelance pro-
fessionals in the game, and for the present
at least the new recruit must be content to
be numbered with these.
* * * ' *
“Pin”: Every golfer has had experience of
that agonising moment when he discovers that
his putting skill has deserted him. Sometimes
the abandonment is only temporary. In others
it persists for long periods in spite of every
effort to lure it back. A recent article in
“Golfing” suggests as a remedy a change of
style, diverging as far as possible from the
original. An instance is cited where Archie
Oompston, having been attacked by the
malady, cured himself by imitating the putt-
ing style of American Louis Diegel, like
which there is nothing else on earth. The
cure was rapid and complete, and.Qompston
found himself able to return to bis original
methods after the diversion, with greater
success than ever.
* * S: *
“Bloggs”: “Give him a free hand,” said
W. B. Dailey on a famous occasion in refer-
ence to the spendthrift political habits of
old Henry Parkes, “and he’ll transform you
into a community of insolvents.” Similarly
one might say: “Give the Midget Golf .people
a free hand and they’ll transform you into
a community of pros.” Advts. like these
are being published in the Sydney papers
by the dozen :
De Luxe Indoor Golf. —Weekly cash prizes of
£1 Is.
Grace Golf Course. —November competition now in
progress. Prizes for ladies and gentlemen totalling
£2l.
Crystal Palace Miget. —Competition commencing
November 17. Prizes, £lO 10s.
Marrickville. —White Way Golf Course. Winners
compete for £l5 15s. cash prizes.
The chairman of the amateur-status and
conduct committee of the U.S.A. Golfing
Association has ruled that players accept-
ing cash prizes must forfeit their amateur
status, and the authorities in Britain and
France take the same view. According to
my estimate, Sydney already has over half
a million inhabitants, male and female, -who
are as much pros, as any prize-fighter, since
competing for a cash prize is just as fatal
to an amateur’s status as winning one.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: The brothers Trevethan, in a
stock model Triumph 832-c.c. car, have tra-
versed the 640 miles between Brisbane and
Sydney in 22 hours 10 minutes. This is a
new record for light cars, being three and
a half hours better than the standing figures
put up by an Austin.
* * * *
“Disc Clutch”: A fresh batch of motor
records is reported from Europe, where
many of the leading drivers appear to do
nothing else but go after previous figures.
At Brooklands, J. R. Cobb covered Jive miles
at the rate of 129.36 m.p.h., and ten miles at
129.29, both from a flying start, his car being
a 10,080-c.c. 12-cylinder Delage, a formidable
job. At Montlhery, another 12-cylinder,
but a Voisin this time, ran 30,000 miles in
17 days 18 nights, with an average speed of
75 m.p.h. The car was driven by a team of
four, headed by C. Marcband, and many
distance and time records went west as a
consequence.
* * * *
“Hoppit”: Britain, which evolved the six-
wheel motor-lorry, has applied the principle
to cars. A new type now on the market is
six-wheeled With a drive on both rear axles,
this making the outfit capable of negotiating
the roughest ground. One advantage claimed
for it will be received with some apprehen-
sion by the average pedestrian accustomed
to seek safety from car-infested roads by
hoofing it oyer field and paddock. The new
car can leave the road at any time and
take a gallop across country, so about the
only remaining i resort for the footslogger
will be the tops of the trees—and even then
some blighter will come along with a car
that can climb a cocoanut palm.
:i: * * *
“Exhaust”: What a goldmine the dirt-
track garnet js to a skilled motor-
cyclist is seen in the statement by the
recently-returned Queensland rider Yic
Huxley that he made over £5OOO during the
last six months in. England. The Banana-
lander is regarded overseas as the champion
of them all, and as such can command excep-
tional fees, while opportunities are frequent,
the average “working” time being four days
a week. Huxley, who liolds most of the
British records, is only in Australia on a
visit, being contracted to return to Britain
for the next season, but he will ride in
Sydney shortly before Christmas,
“Kick Starter”: Some time ago The
Bulletin chronicled the departure from
Melbourne on her lonesome and a motor-
bike of one Mavis Vofiarx, bound for a town
in Central Queensland. The other day the
lady came back after covering a total of
5400 miles on her B.S.A, Most of the
journey was done off the main roads, and con-
ditions —in Western Queensland- especially—
were far from ideal, the fording of bridgelsss
creeks and rivers being one of the trials of
the trip. All the same, only one puncture
occurred during the long tour, and the most
nerve-wracking experience was an argument
with a snake which ignored the traffic regu-
lations.
Miscellaneous
“Clay End” : An almost forgotten game
which has many good things to be said of it
attracted a trifle of attention in Sydney last
week, when the final of the iron quoits
championship of N.S.W. was won by James
Gibson by 41 points to 29. Iron quoits has
always been a favorite with miners anu
still lingers in districts where Cornish and
Geordie traditions are remembered. In the
long ago it was a favorite Sunday-after-
noon game for shearers and station-hands,
the “quoits” used being heavy draught-horse
shoes when the real thing was not avail-
able. As the quoit weighs 441 b., and has to
be tossed at a peg 18 yards away, a player
must have strength as well as skill.
i'fi i'i ❖ Jji
“Third Base”: America has apparently
plumbed the lowest depths of gloom. Fob
lowing on the Wall-street smashes and the
fall in wheat, it lias been discovered that
Babe Ruth, mightiest of baseball smiters and
handler of a salary of £15,000 a year, has
gone off his game. For th<T first time for
years he hqs been headed in the averages,
and his club, which paid £25,000 for him, is
wondering whether to write him off as a
total loss or carry on and pray for the best.
t \i $ *
“Splash” Some people are suggesting a
swim across Port Jackson from Farm Cove
to Manly. As the course is liberally
furnished with sharks, it is proposed to tow
a special net cage behind a tug, the
swimmers to do their part of the business
inside the moving net. The scheme is full
of possibilities. What will happen to the
unfortunate candidate who cannot keep pace
with the others can only be guessed. lie
seems faced with the alternative of being
passed out to the sharks,, or yanked to
Manly in the end of the net like a flathead
in the purse of a trawl.
❖ •!* ❖ #
“Ilotham”: Even Melbourne football is
feeling the pinch of hard times. The annual
dividend handed out to the clubs by the
Victorian League the other day came to a
paltry £3OO apiece, or £2OO less than last
year’s disbursement. To make matters
worse the clubs will not actually receive
even that amount of chicken feed, since each
is docked 10 per cent, of its receipts from
home-and-home matches, and this is taken
out of the yearly clean-up. The League’s
own share is £2226.
“Sandy” Pearce, who crossed the line for
the last time in Sydney the other day, was
a- fine footballer of a type now becoming
obsolete. H'e began his playing career in
the N.S.W. Rugby Union, but went over to
the professional League when that body
was formed. There he won fame as a
hooker, and in this capacity figured in many
matches against English and M.L. League
teams, visiting England on two tours of the
Australians in 1907-08 and 1921-22. A
forceful but scrupulously clean player, he
set an example to many of his contempora-
ries and players of a later day as well. Bob
Pearce, the sculler, is a nephew.


A WOMAN’S
LETTER.
If Lud Mayor Marks doesn’t have another
term of office, sister Hilda can retire from
her city fastness feeling that even the garish
light of public life could pick no holes .in
her efficiency as mistress of the ceremonies.
Courtesies have been rendered and returned
with a punctilious exactitude. Last week
the hard-working Mayoress staged still an-
other party in her rooms, the guests including
300 of those on the Town Hall visiting-list
who had not been at her afternoon a week or
two earlier.
Hugh D. Mclntosh may be the next tenant
of Admiralty House. The story goes that
he has offered £lOO a month for the place,
and the Commonwealth Government could
do with the money. If the Mclntosh couple
were in residence they’d give a few real
parties, and that would be a change for
Admiralty House.
The time when the Royal Empire Society’s
parties were regarded as correct but rather
dull has disappeared. In fact, in a week
that was socially a parched desert the
annual reception was the high and giddy
light around which all the society moths
fluttered. Over 300 guests slid across the
polished entrance of the Wentworth one
night last week, and met the extended hands
of acting-president Alfred Meeks and of
his lady, brave in trailing burgundy velvet.
After that there were dancing, cards and
miniature golf on the Palm Court links.
His State Ex., Sir Philip, escorted the Meeks
lady around the greens, while Lady Game,
slim in black lace and a scarf of dull gold,
stood by with Alfred Meeks. Presently bridge
in the Blue-room absorbed Sir Philip, but
aide Gifford remained in the ballroom, rosy
and of good cheer. Lud Mayor Marks and
Reggie North were others popular among
the males. Ethereal little Margaret Fairfax
was one of the decorations, as were Cynthia
ILawkes and tall Helen Hughes. Margaret
Honey and the Italian Consul-General’s slim
daughter were young things who held the
gaze in a crowded night. The Chief Jus-
tice Streets, the legal Mervyn Finlays and
the equally amiable Kelso Kings and Roy-
stone Daveys were in the friendly rally.
Dinny Garvan, who died in Sydney last
week, a few days after his return from
abroad, was a member of the big M.L. & C.
family. He was a brother of Nan, who did
such "fine work in Egypt, Mrs. Laidley Dow-
ling and Mrs. Prideaux-Brune. His youngest
brother was killed in the R.F.A. early in
the war. Like all the men of his family,
Dinny Garvan was a bold and skilful horse-
man. For many years, though very much of
a heavyweight, he was one of the hardest
riders with the now-departed Sydney Hunt
Club, and he was also a prominent member
of the Sydney Polo Club when Colin Stephen
and Ken Austin were in their prime. He
married a daughter of Harry Owen, Master
in Equity.
Dr. Ew r an Fraser, who died at sea last
week, had only visited Sydney at long inter-
vals during the last 25 years. He had had
a successful career at Oxford, and he was
anxious that his two boys should finish their
education there. After his marriage to hand-
some Jessie Middleton, of Goulburn, he
rented the Charlie Fairfaxes’ house at Burra -
doo for a time, and then transported his
family of two sons and two daughters to
England. Jack, the eldest, was a phenomen-
ally brilliant chemist. He was offered a high
position in his college when he came down
from the University, but refused it in favor
of the business to which he was devoted.
His death in a ,ski-ing accident in Switzer-
land was a blow from which the father never
really recovered.
The Frazer fortune was made in the soft-
goods trade by old John Frazer, M.L.C.,
and Ewan Frazer and his sister, who shared
it, travelled through life on identical lines
in many respects. Both married young, both
began their married lives in Sydney, both
settled after a while in England, and both
produced remarkable sons. She wedded
Charlie Fairfax 45 years ago, and tneir son
is Captain James Griffytli Fairfax. He had
distinguished careers in the army and the
House of Commons, hut. is best Known, per-
haps, as a poet. His “Carmina Rapta”
received very high praise in the most eclectic
quarters when it appeared ten years ago.
American cousins to the number of 175
arrived by the Malolo last week to look us
over, and this Letter hopes they went away
with as good an impression of us as we got
of them. It was a sign of the times, doubt-
less, that there were not nearly so many
passengers aboard the Malolo this trip
as in 1929: also there were about twice as
many women as men. But the loss was the
American male’s, for a brighter, better-
dressed cargo of ladies never stepped off a
luxury liner. There were Judges, lawyers,
business men and engineers in the male com-
pany, and among the sleek-haired feminine
passengers were keen business women, wel-
fare workers, students and educational ex-
perts.
Kindly Lady Game paid her first visit to
the Dahvood Home for mothers and babies
last week, and was met by an impressive
guard of honor made up of Girl Guides, Boy
Scouts, Sea Cadets, Junior Red Crossers
and children of the home. Her State Ex.
planted a treb, Miss Crowdy planted another,
the Firemen’s Band played an invigorating
programme, and tea was served in a gay
marquee on the front lawn. Chairman
George Fitzpatrick, Dr. Richard Arthur and
Mrs. Arthur McNiven, president of the Food
for Babies’ fund, which finances the home,
did the honors. Notable among the visitors
were members of Parliament, the Mosman
and Manly mayoral couples, the medical
Cresswell Howies, the General Herrings, the
“Tresco” Stevensons, Mrs. Myerson and
Sister Iverven, of St. Margaret’s.
Moyna Martin, who directed Booth Tark-
iugton’s “Seventeen” at the Playbox last
week, must be one of the youngest
dramatic producers in Sydney. In her spare
time she writes topical verse and short
stories, but mostly she is busy with the pub-
licity for the little theatre off Oxford-street.
The acting of “Seventeen” w T as notably good,
and the characters were line-perfect. The
theatre was ballasted with social tonnage,
the Governor and Lady Game being
among the interested. Mayoress Hilda Marks,
who, like her Ex., was bluely diaphanous,
enjoyed this comedy of adolescence in com-
pany with brother Percy, and a bouquet
of flowers in season was presented to her by
the committee. The play was for the benefit
of the Institution for the Deaf and Dumb
and Blind Children.
Married at Goulburn last week, Charles
Kimberley MacDonald, only child of William
MacDonald, youngest of the three pioneering
MacDonald brothers who made the amazing
trek with their cattle from Goulburn to the
north-west of W.A. and established their
station, Fossil Downs, on the Fitzroy River.
'The bride, Heather Pluck, only child of the
P. Plucks, of Goulburn, received from the
bridegroom’s mother, Mrs. I. MacDonald,
of Rossmoyne, Goulburn, a wonderful neck-
lace of Australian rubies —uncut stones taken
from the Macdonnell Ranges over half a
century ago.
Perhaps the most interesting speaker at
Lewisham Hospital’s annual meeting last
week was J. F. Coates, M.L.C. He told a
Christmas story whose hero was the never-
to-be-forgotten Dr. Johnnie Hunter; Mr.
Coates was a patient in the hospital at the
time. On Christmas Eve the sister on
night duty in one of the big wards was busy
on her rounds somewhere towards twelve
o’clock when to her surprise “Johnnie,” then
at the height of his fame, walked up the
ward to her. “I thought you’d be wishing
to go to midnight mass,” he said, “so if
you’ll trust the ward to me I’ll look after
it till you come back.” Only the really great
think of doing beautiful, simple things like
that.
During last year there were nearly 7000
in-patients, while almost 43,000 outdoor
patients sought the hospital’s aid. The
year ended with a comparatively mild debit
balance of £3OOO. R. D. Meagher, Dr. Bill
McKay and the chancellor of the hospital
were among the afternoon’s speakers. Mayor-
ess Hilda Marks was among the visitors.
All the people returning from Europe
(they have just begun to get back) expect
to find their friends and relations in rags
and living under the fig-trees in the Domain.
Possibly the girls look over the side at Suez
or Port Said, see the niggers in loincloths
and expect that they will find Sydney dressed
much like that. Well, if Mr. Lang gets a
forced loan, and the meat strike continues,
we may get quite blase to such sights as
this;—•
Cricket* and a fine day are an irresistible
allure to Sydneysiders, so when this Letter
reached the Cricket Ground to see the
West Indian team in action it found
miles of cars and fifteen thousand men,
women and children already on the spot.
There was an air of care-free enthusiasm
about everything; even the water out that
way knew no restraint, and was gurgling
in a full-throated manner out of a hose in
the. parking area. Packed tight were the
grandstand, the members’ stand and the Hill,
while the lawns held their usual lines of
the recumbent in the shade. The West Indians
are upstanding creatures who walked in a
languid, heavy-footed manner from the pavi-
lion to the stumps, but after that were
languid no longer; they banged the ball in
a style that proved that cricket need not
necessarily be a game for the aged and in-
firm.
For November 28 the Savoy Theatre is
booked to capacity. This is the opening
night of society’s big push in aid of the
Industrial Blind Institution in William-
street. Ex-Justice Gordon’s lady is pro-
ducing Milne’s “Romantic Age” for an entire
week to help balance the budget, and many of
the city’s moneyed as well as professional
families will be walking the boards, usher-
ing or selling sweets for the cause. Mrs.
George Vivers, whose father was one of the
earliest friends of the institution, is one of
the most active workers. The lately-formed
auxiliary has already collected £626. £lll
of which is in hand for the play. Mrs. C.
t .Tnnes is in charge of a bevv of sweet
sellers.
This Letter’s party dress has a persistent
leer these days—ever since it met the sailor
and the sausages at Milson’s Point. Besides
the sausages the honest tar had a couple of
bottles of beer. One bottle of beer and the
sausages he tucked under his arms —the beer
under the right,
the sausages un-
der the left. The
other bottle of
beer he stood
on the escalator
step ahead of
him. If the
bottle wavered
and flickered as
it started its
upward journey
the sailor, no
doubt, reflected
that his eyes
were playing
tricks on him.
II owev e r, to
make sure, he
admonished it
to be still. Just
as the harangue
ended, up in the
air shot the
bottle, and, de-
scribing the perfect arc, descended, a flash-
ing stream of amber and broken glass, at the
writer’s brown-shod feet. Since then the
shoes and the frock (also brown) have a
dissipated and reckless air.
Still another day nursery is added to the
association’s list. The address is 3 Lintliorpe-
street, Newtown, and Lady (fame cut the
blue ribbon that embellished its front door
one windy afternoon last week. These nur-
series are one of the kindest thoughts that
comfortably-off woman has had for her work-
ing sister. Here the mother forced into the
daily job can leave her youngsters with a
care-free heart, knowing they will be guarded
through the day as if her own eye were on
them. It’s jolly, too, for the kiddies; at the
nursery they have baby companions, and, if
they are old enough, bright-faced voluntary
helpers to teach them fascinating games. The
Julius lady, who is president of the nursery,
thanked her Ex., -who made one of her most
enthusiastic speeches, and seemed delighted
with the posy of pink roses and delphiniums
one of the tiny blue-smocked babes handed to
her. The MacCallum lady, president of
the association, marked the opening as the
great event of her week. The day-nursery
scheme has been one of her pets since the
first was started over 20 years ago in Wool-
loomooloo.
If you have seen this past week . a gentle-
looking couple, round about the forties, cross-
ing Macquarie-street and obviously very ner-
vous about the traffic, you have probably
been gazing on sculptor Harold Parker and
liis wife. Then, if you go to Anthony Hor-
derns’ Gallery, you will find beauty that the
artist’s quiet eyes have seen and his sensi-
tive hands have evoked from clay and bronze.
The two are staying at Macquarie House,
and are so unaware that Mr. Parker is a
lion that they are scarcely ever to be found
posed at the exhibition. He refuses to roar,
ever so pianissimo, at parties. Even a party
in a house with a celebrated cobwebbed and
stone-arched wine-cellar failed to stir that
classic calm. Pie and his wife are happiest
of all when with sandwiches and thermos
they are picnicking under the greenwood
tree. And that’s to be expected of one
who, judging from the Greek purity of his
line, harbors a soul that went fluting in Thes-
saly when the world was very young.
When you are tying up your Christmas
parcels (and even in these dull, times there
will be some), don’t forget to add one of
the gay little Christmas stickers designed
by the T.B. Clinic supporters. This clinic
is conducted by the National Association for
the Prevention and Cure of Consumption,
and if the response to the sale of stamps is
not as good as it should be. the clinic may
have to close its doors in the New Year.
It took two traffic policemen to control
the motors that wanted to get into the Elwa-
tan fete or to drive past on the Castle Hill
road last Saturday. Elwatan is the home of
the Robert Dixsons, and its grounds are
flower-decked and spreading. These were
loaned for a money-raiser for the Crown-
street Women’s Hospital, and the 400 cars
parked inside the gates showed that the hos-
pital’s supporters had responded nobly. Lady
Game did the opening act, and small daughter
Rosemary bore her company.
A girl just back from her travels climbed
The Bulletin stairs the other day in a
pair of antelope stockings (that’s the new
shade, and in some lights has a browny
tinge and in others a gunmetal). With
them she wore a suit of reversible black
satin, dull side out, black shoes and a black
hat with one of those becoming forehead-
bands of ribbon. This was threaded through
the brim to cross the forehead, and was tied
in a neat bow above the right ear. The Rus-
sian blouse, she says, is becoming as
übiquitous as the beret overseas, and is
equally popular in cloth or stockinet. Berets
are made of everything. They appear in
velvet/felt, chenille or beaded jersey. Some
even have long strings to tie under the chin.
But hair in a
wavy line across
the forehead
must appear
below each and
every one of
them; in fact,
curly hair
seems an im-
perative acces-
sory to the de-
bonair little
bonnet. Chiffon
appears in all
the best even-
ing frock s.
Th e s e are
frilled, tucked,
shirred or
smocked; they
are flowing,
often black, and
the new berthe
collar occurs with a frequency that
may spell a speedy exit. Some of
these berthes, which are narrow in front
but dip at the back, are cut in jagged petal
points. Hips, by the way, are still to be out
of the picture. What a pity Nature hadn't;
the assistance of a man milliner when Eve
was created!
On Sunday wings were put to a use quite
new to this Letter. Geoff King, an enthusi-
astic flier, had arranged to lunch at Cro-
nulla with friends —he and his wife. At the
last moment something happened to make
the visit impossible. He called liis friends,
but could not raise them, and there was no
time to motor down. Of course wings at
once came to mind. Hastily scribbling a
note, he attached it to a small bag of sand
and a tail, motored over to Mascot, jumped
in a Moth, and in a few seconds was hover-
ing over his friends’ house. Their attention
attracted, he dropped his apology and then
flew home. As a matter of fact the message
landed in a garden two doors away, but that
wasn’t bad shooting considering that the
machine was doing 110 m.p.li. at the time.
P.S.—Of course you expected this. When
he got back the ’phone was in perfect work-
ing order again.
Having raised over £30,000 for charity
since they first blazoned their banner, the
Vagabonds have now started on another
£30,000. As usual the bright little company
filled St. James’s Hall last Saturday when St.
John Ervine’s “Anthony and Anna” was the
bill-of-fare. This is a clever piece of mental
gymnastics, and the players got their laughs
every time, though, as usual with amateurs,
the girls were better than the men. Val
Cohen, as the irrepressible Anna, wore some
pretty frocks in the pursuit of her male.
Ruby Coxliead handled a small part con-
vincingly supported by amber-patterned chif-
fons, and Hilda Marr was as decorative a
little waitress as ever served in a stage inn.
This unemployment problem gets more and
more acute. Even the ranks of the Giri
Guides seem threatened. Lady Game the
other day suggested that Girl Guides
might be employed picking up orange-peel.
Mind you, there something to be said
for the scheme. Benevolent old _ ladies
and gentlemen who like the Guides will feel
constrained to eat oranges in public as well
as in private, and this will be of immense
benefit to their arteries and blood stream,
as well as making a fine day’s work for the
blue-clad sisterhood. But, of course, there’s
a risk that the orange crop might fail. So
the Guiders (they are the ladies with the
white cord draped across their front who
impressively salute each other with the
right hand while shaking hands with the
left) might arrange to have the constitution
amended so as to admit of the picking up
of banana-skins. But this Letter would
like to suggest other ways of absorbing the
surplus energy of the trim little girls who
look so thoroughly smart and dependable as
they bounce on and off the trams. Why not
train them to play martial and sacred music
on their whistles? As far as we know there
is no whistlers’ union, so the unemployed
musicians couldn’t make trouble. Or they
might be turned into a band of militant
Christians to point the City onward and
upward to higher things. Quite _ easy to
imagine some of these nice little girls, who
are as good as they are pretty, floating like
cherubim, their smooth plaits and shingled
heads shining out of fluffy clouds, up above
the spires of St. James’s and St. Philip s.
Mrs. Marie Rousselet Niau’s “Memories
of a Parisian in the Antipodes” is attracting
a deal of attention, being the first book ot
its kind written in French. This lady has
a still more intimate interest for Sydney in
that she was one of the early residents of
Neutral Bay, where she and her husband
and children settled after they came from
their first Australian home on the Daintree
River. She and her daughter still live in
the North Shore suburb in a charming cottage
situated on what Miss Niau first knew as a
cow pasture. Here the authoress, who is
now paralysed, lies in view. of a cabinet
which holds, among many relics of her girl-
hood and early married life in France, a
great gold medal won by her own learning
when she was a tiny girl, and the medals
of her son, that little Jack, mentioned so
often in her memoirs, who was killed in
action with the A.I.F. in the Great War.
Her youth, her culture and her son this
fragile French lady, born in view of the Tuil-
eries, on the present site of the French Opera
House, has given to Australia. A clever
speaker, she was one of the international
group organised in Sydney’s early, days by
Mrs. Septimus Harwood, M.A. (editress for
many years of “Pax”), for the purpose of
giving lectures in foreign languages. A rule
of the circle was that only a French member
might give a French lecture, a German
speak publicly in German, and so on. It
was the forerunner of the present-day Modern
Languages’ Association, and Mrs. Niau s last
lecture as a member of this circle was given
in the Great Hall of the University. The
memoirs were written before her illness, and
the simple, direct narrative of the lion-
hearted young wife who set out with her
husband in search of the New France m
the visionary Marquis de Ray s expedition}
cannot fail to appeal. Incidentally it is
worthy of note that the ship in which they
sailed was named the Lusitania.
OVERHEARD.
First Amateur ( fretfully ): “The audience is
terribly quiet.”
Second Amateur ( soothingly ) : “Environment,
laddie. They’re mostly in reserved seats!”


AS WE SAID BEFORE.
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
A CHINESE BARBER’S MISTAKE.
Some years ago the only tonsorial pro-
fessor on a bustling little Victorian diggings,
since exalted to the dignity of a township
by the advent of the St. Arnaud line, was
a Chinaman known by the tender euphonic
name of Soo Ivee. Soo was a good barber,
and had the touch of an artist, but he
indulged intemperately in opium, which
seductive narcotic considerably impaired his
brilliant intellect, and caused him to be
addle-headed and run rickety at times. On
these occasions it was advisable to watch him
warily, for he would drive round angles at
such a reckless pace that, if he were not
kept awake to a sense of duty by an occa-
sional thwack, he would vary the dull mono-
tony by cutting off the corners altogether,
and spoiling the only set of features the
sitter was provided with. The Celestial
fossickers who pervaded the diggings were
Soo Kee’s best customers; they had their
spherical occiputs scraped with religious
regularity. But Soo ran a bloated monopoly,
and the writer, too, patronised his palatial
and high-flavored humpy to be shaven and
sheared.
One of Professor Kee’s most consistent
patrons was a burly European named Spence,
who was exerting all his blandishments, and
spreading his personal beauty to the best
advantage, to catch the fancy of a coy widow
—the proud possessor of a lump of land in
the vicinity. Mr. Spence was not an intoxi-
catingly beautiful hero; his complexion had
been spoilt by early neglect; his chief fea-
FORCE OF HABIT.
BARBER: “Shave, or hair cut?”
tures. had all been knocked askew in
numerous hand-to-hand encounters with
Black Anderson, Nobby Bill, the Game Cock,
and other minor lights of the p.r.; his cheek-
bones, like his muscles, stood out boldly and
defied the world, and his face was so full of
small-pox pits that it appeared to have been
moulded in a nutmeg-grater. In the gloaming
Mr. Spence might easily have passed for
second cousin to a Chinese mandarin, but
he never stooped to practise such deception.
He consistently mowed all the hair off his
face so that the front view of his cast of
countenance should not be obstructed, but
encouraged a bushy hedge, which ran right
>! “ P*"** *T h°“ XX*
bahl . l i d tb ? down under hls chm ’ and
10 101 slde ‘ 11 „
, ‘ Pence called upon Soo Kee jegu-
m J once a week to be reaped, and all
went well till one Saturday evening after
the camp had been more than ordinarily
lively in consequence of a fight between two
diggers for £lO a side. Our hero had occu-
pied an official position during the contest,
and was so elated by the victory of his man
that he got intoxicated, and wandered
mechanically into Soo Ivee’s saloon, and,
sinking into the operating chair, slept pro-
foundly. Soo’s giant intellect was consider-
ably dimmed that evening by a recent opium
debauch, and judging from a cursory glance
at the “Geordie’s” classical lineaments that
he was a fellow-countryman, he proceeded
like one in a dream to scrape the close-
cropped hair from Mr. Spence’s bumpy
cranium in Oriental style. The job was a
difficult one, but Soo Kee plodded wearily on,
and it was completed at last. Then Spence,
the pride of the lead, was a sight to see.
He was a grisly nightmare; his head was as
smooth and reflective as a fish-glove, saving
for one tuft of hair like a shaving-brush,
which jutted out of the gable-end of his occi-
put, the sole relief from a great plain of
barrenness. After a feeble and ineffectual
attempt to induce his somnolent customer to
take up his possessions and meander, Pro-
fessor Soo Kee groped his way to his lonely
couch, and was soon wandering in the realms
of bliss conjured up by the potent drug; and
the sound of Spence’s snore filled the shanty
and wandered far out into the night. Mr.
Spence slumbered heavily in the chair till
long after daybreak, and when he did wake
it took him some time to fully realise who
he was and where he came from, being nowise
enlightened by a long and earnest survey of
his dismantled head as reflected in the cheap,
gnarled mirror which Soo Kee provided for
the satisfaction of his patrons. For many
minutes the shorn customer gaped into the
glass before he could believe that his identity
had not been lost during the night, but con-
vinced at last by the peculiar inartistic
break in his nose and several other well-
known landmarks that he was himself and
that someone had been tampering with his
head of hair, he groaned and uttered a weird
streak of profanity. He thought the job
had been “put up.” and that Soo Kee was
in the hands of his enemies, and he turned
to interview the slumbering Celestial, whose
boudoir was partitioned off from the operat-
ing-room by a curtain of potato-bags,
The first intimation that cordial relations
no longer existed between Mr. Spence and the
[3/3/’BB.]
Professor came to the latter in the shape of
a bucket of water, and he had scarcely time
to ejaculate “What for?” when he was picked
up bodily and tossed against the roof of the
hut; then lie was dragged all over the rough
furniture by one leg, pounded from head to
foot, fired through the wall, crowded back
again, trampled on, choked and insulted with
a curse as long as a Methodist prayer, full,
fierce and free from tautology,
Startled by the - crash of timber, and the
howls of a strong Chinaman in his agony,
the diggers rushed out of their huts and
tents, and the Geordie was hauled off. Then
that interesting study turned his attention
to Soo Kee’s place of business, and tore it
asunder, scattering logs, furniture and imple-
ments of trade far and near; after which he
prowled round the crowd, with froth on his
lips and blood in his eyes, earnestly beseech-
ing the man who put the Mongolian up to
shave his head to step out and be killed dead
as a hammer; but no one stepped, and no one
smiled, notwithstanding that Jack Spence did
look like a Chinaman.
Soo Kee was taken away and dusted and
doctored by his countrymen. For weeks and
weeks the Geordie went round with his
cranium enveloped in a woollen scarf, and
for months his bald head was a stock joke:
but, strangely enough, only one man dared
to gibe at it in the owner’s hearing, and he
was sent off to the Maryborough hospital the
same day to be treated for a fractured skull
and seventeen minor abrasions.
[22/12/’BB.J Edavard Dyson.
A big Sydney syndicate has this Aveek
started to bore for coal at Cremorne.
A consensus of scientific opinion points
to the probability of coal being struck
at 2700 feet, but failing such good
fortune the bore will, if necessary, be
driven another thousand feet. To work
coal deposits at over 3000 feet seems
rather a large order, but the men interested
are quite confident that there is a big for-
tune to be got out of operating on such far-
down seams right alongside deep water and
within a stone’s-throw of the city. They are
so sure about the matter that they have
already sent to England specifications for an
enormously powerful plant to be put in hand
on receipt of cable. They expect to start
their shaft within nine months from now.
[23/8/’9o.]
In America, ’way back some 40 or 50
years, when specie was scarce and produce,
owing to difficulties of transit, not easily
disposed of, public entertainers were often
compelled to take out the value of tickets
in vegetables, corn, poultry, etc. At that
time the grandparents of an actor-family
well known in the States owned a floating
theatre, built upon a flat boat, which they
navigated with the current from town to
town along the Mississippi. The mother of
the family sold tickets and played heavy
leads. She had an office in the bow with
bins and compartments for receiving mer-
chandise. and directly over the head was a
sliding door, which opened into a cliicken-
coop on The roof. One evening in the year
1835 the theatre was tied to a stake near
the boat-landing at New Madrid. The play
was “Othello,” and although times were hard
and money scarce, the audience _was a good
one, and green corn, eggs and chickens came
in plentifully, so that Emilia many times
ere she could finish dressing for her part
had to come back, open the trap-door and
push another fine fat pullet into the coop.
Between the acts, Emilia and Brabantio
came out to reckon up the takings.. There
were two dollars and ten cents in cash,
about two dozen watermelons, 30 or 40 eggs
and a small supply of sweet potatoes and
green corn. “There must have been a big
run on chickens to-night,” said Brabantio,
seeing how meagre the receipts were in other
directions. “There was,” replied Emilia:
“there are at least 50 in the coop.” Braban-
tio rushed up on deck to have a 100k T at
them. Lo, the coop was empty! The New
Madridians had put off one pullet on the old
lady all the evening, employing a bare-
footed little nigger boy to slip up over the
stern of the boat and steal the fowl out of
the coop as fast as she put it in, and when
the whole town had taken their seats, the
nigger stole the chicken on his own account
and went home to supper. Brabantio was
a good Methodist, and spared a good deal
of strong language which the situation might
have justified; but just as the curtain ran
up on the fourth act, the old man slipped
his cables and the “Temple of Thespis” and
the play went on steadily together. Just
before the curtain fell on the last act he
pushed in shore and made fast, and that
audience had to walk home ten miles through
a swamp.
A social function took place the other day
at a far-western hamlet, and for the time
being a spirit of joyous harmony lighted up
the dull path of existence/ and the cares
attendant on the present low price of bul-
locks were extinguished. The hall was- taste-
fully decorated with tallow candles, and an
ounce and a half of hot grease fell into the
eye of the lady whose husband fell out of
his cart last year and broke lus neck. Ilieie
were about 120 people present, including an
individual who was out on bail on some
absurd question relating to a horse, and not
forgetting a maiden six teet high who wore
about three-quarters of an emu m her fiat,
Tins blushing creature was ot a basiitul
turn, and was Avith difficulty ejected from tne
ladies’ retiring-room, where she wanted to
stay all the evening; but she recovered fiei
spirits later on, and threw her teet about
so energetically in the first waltz that they
arrived unexpectedly in the back of anybody
who happened to be near. Hie only mishap
of the evening arose through the fact tliu
a girl from Simpson's Crossing had brought
a piece of a dismantled cruet with her as a
scent-bottle. She was a prolonged anu
shadowy creature, and was, unhappily, in
profound ignorance of the fact that some-
one had filled up the bottle with ammonia,
but when she took a liberal sniff of the mix-
ture the circumstance daAViied on her. 1 hen
she opened her mouth in agony till all than
could be seen of her Avas a portentous
cavity surrounded by an almost imperceptible
fringe of girl, and uttered a shriek that
sounded as if a fire liad broken out in per-
dition and all the devils were rushing for the
door. When she had partially recovered
she commenced to canter round the room at
the rate of a long distance in a very short
time, but she was captured after a brief
but exciting struggle and led out into the
open air, where some kindly friends stood
her up against the wall. Her partner sus-
pected that this outrage had been perpetrated
by a gentleman without a coat and with a
badly-frayed collar, and he accordingly
knocked him backwards over the barrel of
beer in the refreshment-room. The provisions
were all that could he desired, except that a
candle had dropped out of a bracket into
the tea and completely dissolved, but the
wick being discovered suspicions were aroused
before more than three-fourths of the article
had been assimilated. The proceedings came
to an end about 2 a.m., and the company
dispersed unconscious of the fact that a
gentleman connected with the post-and-raii
fence industry had been left asleep under the
table and locked in. When he woke, how-
ever, he made his escape by wrenching the
dpor off its hinges, after accidentally smash-
ing four windows, and about daylight two
horses and a lost pig entered through the
opening thus provided and finished up the
remnants of the supper. The proceedings
were a great success.
Have you ever studied the effect of dress
on women’s manners? That is what l
[Sappho Smith] have been doing. Catch a
charmer in a tea-gown (this sounds like an
introduction to a cookery conundrum, doesn't
it?), which is a degage garment even in its
stateliest and most be-whaleboned move-
ments, and she will always be more or
less degage, en suite. She will 101 l on the
sofa in preference to sitting up in a chair:
the exigencies of the gown require that her
shoes and hose be daintily-beaded kid and
openwork silk, so she really doesn’t mind
very much if the flounce does work up a
little bit. And dress affects the morals as
well as the manners. It is a fact that a big-
plumed hat and a very dashing cloak once
so ate into a woman’s soul that she eloped
desperately with an opera-singer to relieve
the feelings engendered by that hat. When
the cloak wore out and the feathers moulted
and she bought a rink collar and a sober
bonnet, the better nature of the wearer of
stiff linen at once asserted itself, and she left
her Leander on the spot. Then every observ-
ant person must have noticed that a girl
buttoned up to the throat and the same girl
in shoulder-straps and bouquet are not the
same individual. I heard a puzzled man *
remark once confidentially to another: “Look
at Miss Blank. Meet her in a ball-dress
and she —well, she simply melts as you
approach her; but meet her with her bonnet
on and she freezes even your ‘How d’ye do?’ ”
Don’t you know lots of girls like that? The
decollete acts like champagne upon them,
and they don’t regain their normal condition
until it’s hung up on the hook in the ward-
robe. Of course some may assert that the
woman whose moral being parts its hair in
the centre, so to speak, would not buy de-
moralising- clothing in the first place, and
that it is only those who have a leaning to
frivolity who fall into the trap; but 1
believe that, at some time or other, every
woman has been under the baneful influence
of clothes, and they have made her say or
do something foreign to her nature. Else
why is “cook” an almost unapproachable
being when she has her Sunday best on?
THE REPROBATE’S REPLY.
Three drovin- men some three weeks svne
Sat Skfeg Qaeenstod
’Twas four a.m. when twa o’ them
Saw Jock McPhee succumb.
Hech ! they were giddy songs he’d sung,
And the yarns which he’d spun were
“free T ”
For the liquor that nicht had loosed the
tongue
O’ guidman Jock McPhee.
They fault the meenister what befell,
So he tuk bitaw Jock to task:
“Jock, gie me noo an answer true
To a question I wull ask.
An’ it happened the Laird had stricken ye,
A reprobate* graceless mon,
Whan ye war a-bletherin’ yester e’en—
E’ye ken whaur ye wad hae gone?”
"Whaur wad I hae gone?”—and Jockie
wunk—
“Dinna ye fash yersel’ mail-,
For I wad ha’ bin too terrible drunlc
To ha’ gone anywhere.”
THE BREAKER.
NEW GUINEA INCIDENT
WHAT makes our
good King Gallucifer
sad ?
Sh-a-sh ' He bit hard
on the seal ring of the
fricasseed missionary at
lunch to-day and has a
toothache.
[22/12/’BB.]


Under
' Royal
Wantin'-
fdgfgdg
To H.M.
Kino
George V
Vintage 1920. (
CHAMPAGNE <
MesMieA
BJUBM
Australasian Agents—
swift & Company umitaJ
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGNE
'larksllcidsieGv
Reims
al W'
MERCURY
BRAN
TASMANIAN
CIDER
For the Spring and Summer
Evenings.
MONDAY TO FRIDAY.
DELIGHTFUL SUPPER DANCES.
Commencing at 9 a.m. and
finishing at 1 a.m.
SUPPER 5/-, including dancing.
Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY NIGHT. LATE NIGHT.
Evening Dress Only.
Special Supper from 9 p.m., 10/6
—dancing till 2 a.m.
JACK WOOD’S POPULAR
AMBASSADOR ORCHESTRA.
Afternoon Tea ) 3.30 till 5.30, 2/6
Dansant j Saturday . . 4/-
’Phone M 4131.
dfgfdgfd
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodse Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B. Melbourne.
r THE B\fßldr
fgd
AND ALL BRISBANE READS !T.
Sydney Rep.: IL C. HINCHCLIFFE*
2 HUNTER STREET.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a tcoman needs to know,
CASH’S RIBBONS WASH WITH THE
GARMENT.
Cash’s Washing Ribbons once threaded
need never be removed. The dainty
pastel Shades come out of the wash like
new. Cash’s Wash Ribbons meet every
requirement of modern Lingerie, and
are universally popular for Shoulder
Straps. Ask your Draper.
a
ames
s
LL LINEN/
TO MARK
Are Indisoensible to Every Home.
Absolutely Fadeless and Durable.
“A Few Stitches and Thev’re on.’
cs.ffi?lVZ(L£LcuriA'
Actual Size, Style No. 6
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS.
' : Write for Name Style Circular to
JO T p/ICTT AUSTRALIAN
Oi J. WEAVING CO PTY. LTD
85 CUBITT ST.. RICHMOND MELB
r^pE-s
12 d
7/6
6d
S/
3 4o
3/6
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Clizabethan
P[?] Contral 800 for [?]
Buckley C-Nunm limited
[?]
The needs of the Tweddle Hospital and
School of Motliercraft provided an excuse
for a dinner-dance at the Rex on Friday
night, engineered by the institution’s younger-
set auxiliary and some other workers. May
Inglis, in black taffeta punctuated by fes-
toons of tiny pink roses heading a flounce of
tulle, w T as lion, sec., with Flora Anderson, in
ninon strewed with poppies of green and
russet hues, checking the takings, Mrs. Keith
Fairley, in deep-rose-tinted chiffon, and Mrs.
Eccles Mackay, in paler pink taffeta, sold
novelties and caps. Stuart A. Davis, chief
organiser, was accompanied by his wife, wuo
wore dark green chiffon velvet. Among the
dinner dances were Dr. and Mrs. Springtliorpe,
she in georgette of Parma-violet shade; Dr.
ond Mrs. J. Adamson, Dr. and Mrs. J. Wil-
liams and Dr. and Mrs. Griffiths. Margot
Rosenthal’s white chiffon draperies dipped
beneath an apple-green velvet coat and Esme
Frankenberg sported chiffon of petunia tint.
Several of the company of “The Cingalee”
came in after the theatre to entertain, Ter-
ence Crisp, some artists from the Tivoli and
a ballet of Eunice Weston’s pupils were also
on the programme.
Marie and Rene Crooke, daughters of E. J.
Crooke, of Holey Plains, Rosedale, who
were debs, of this season and were presented
to George Rex and his Queen in London in
July, put on a dance at No. 9, which was
transformed into a garden for the occasion,
the flowers mostly coming from the hostesses'
station home. Both girls wore gowns of
white, Marie’s being chiffon while her sister
chose taffeta and silk net. They had the
assistance in entertaining of their father and
their aunts, Mrs. C. Lempriere and Mrs.
T. IT. Payne. Ella Payne was also there in
garnet-red satin. Air. and Mrs. James
Ainslie, the George Paxtons and Captain and
Mrs. A. M. Treacy were among the guests,
and there was a great flock of young peopie.
Mrs. J. F. Ryan, Mrs. R. J. Dunlea and
Mrs. Esmond Downey organised a card party
with musical accompaniment at the Myer
tearoom on Thursday afternoon to provide
a Christmas treat for the orphans of St.
Joseph’s Home, Surrey Hills, and 300 play-
ers attended —a muster that solved all mone-
tary problems. Doris Ryan w r as hon. sec.,
with Margaret Foley lending a helping hand.
Stalls were conducted by Mrs. W. J. Wearne,
Mrs. T. V. Milica and Mrs. J. Cotchett.
Some of our very nicest singers made them-
selves heard above the chatter, Emily Hook,
Cecily Kelly, Molly Warden, Gretta Brem-
ner and John D. Fraser being contributors
to the vocal fare.
Mrs. Arthur Hurlstone gave a garden party,
with a bridge party in the evening, at her
home in East Kew the other day for the bene-
fit of the Yooralla Hospital School and Free
Kindergarten. The committee of the hos-
pital, headed by the hon. sec., Mrs. W. E.
Goode, conducted sales, one stall being
stocked with articles made by crippled
inmates of the institution. Mrs. George
Swinburne gave the proceedings an intro-
ductory push.
There was rejoicing at Janet Clarke Hall,
Trinity College, recently when Archbishop
Head dedicated a new wing named after a
benefactor. Miss E. M. Traill, once a resi-
dent at this Uni. hostel for women students.
Now there is comfortable accommodation
within the Uni. precincts for 52 students,
who were formerly quartered in various
houses in the locality. Part of the new build-
ing is devoted to the purposes of the Domes-
tic. Science College, for it is compulsory for
all resident women undergrads to take a
course in home management during their
academic period. This was a condition of
a very large bequest made by W. T. Manifold.
To Miss Traill was allotted the duty of turn-
ing the gold key in the hall door. Three
hundred guests gathered in the beautiful
dining-room while the billy boiled for four
o’clock tea.
The beautifully laid-out garden and lawns
surrounding the home of Mrs. George Lang-
ridge were the scene of a fete engineered by
the Malvern-Armadale Auxiliary of the
Women’s Hospital, of which body she is
president, with the object of reducing the
maintenance debt of the institution. The
sun shone brightly, and there was a constant
stream of patrons through the gates of Clyde-
bank. Wares suitable for Yuletide giving
\yere discovered upon stalls set against tall
hedges or shady trees, and commanded a
ready sale. Mrs, H'arry Emmerton, wearing
a black lace and georgette frock and wide-
leafed straw hat, started the ball rolling.
The industry of insects, as exemplified in
the show of the Field Naturalists’ Club, ex-
plains why the moralists of grandma’s day
had so keen an admiration for the ant and
the bee. Here was to be seen the orange-
and-black cactoblastis bug loyally eating its
way through the jucy, cushiony leaves of the
prickly-pear. Toads and lizards prowled
around their cages seeking what they might
devour. A lizard that w r as regarded reverently
by all had a label that ascribed to it the gift
of barking, but it did not bark —possibly
because there was nothing to bark about. A
’possum looked at visitors with a friendly ex-
pression. Wild flowers from all over the
Commonwealth made a bright showing, and
every visitor left a little contribution to the
Lud Mayor’s Fund.
At the Melbourne C. of E. Grammar School
chapel last week, Mary, elder daughter of
the F. B. Daniels, formerly of Maffra and
now of East Malvern, w T as linked up with
Rex, son of the late Mr. and Mrs. R. H.
Foard, of Bairnsdale. The bride wore ivory
satin and tulle, and Helen Daniel, her maid,
topped a floral-patterned chiffon gown with a
pale green hat.
Bishop Green, assisted by the Rev. Roscoe
Steele, forged- the bonds between Beatrice
Sparrow and Lindsay Alsop at St. John's,
Camberwell. Gwennetli Sparrow and Alison
Alsop, in flowered chiffon frocks, accom-
panied the bride, who is the third daughter
of Robert J. Sparrow, of Hawthorn. A tulie
veil attached to a glistening bandeau fell over
her white satin gown and she carried a
bouquet of water-lilies. There were after-
rejoicings at the Camberwell Town Hall.
Off the beaten track was the International
Gala held at the Y.W.C.A. buildings, Russell-
street. The object was to raise the £250
which the association lias pledged itself to
contribute yearly as this State’s quota
towards the International Fellowship Fund
to provide workers for India, Japan and
China. Connibere Hall was lined with stalls
showing articles useful and dainty, with an
especially attractive display of garments for
babies and wee girls. Dresses of various
nationalities garbed sales-ladies. Tea and
home-made cakes were served in a replica
of an old-world kitchen, with charming girls
in Dutch attire awaiting customers’ orders.
Among other money-making dodges was a
midget golf course. In the evening there
was a musical programme, with a parade of
the brides of many countries in their distinc-
tive bridal array. Miss Connibere, who has
been a good friend to the Y.W.C.A., said the
opening words.
Here is W. P. Carr, who was responsible
for the presentation of “Peg o’ My Heart”
by the Catholic Theatre Guild at the Play-
house. For six
or seven years
he has guided
p e rformances
by the South
Melbourne
C.Y.M.S Dra-
matic Society,
thereby raising
over £2OOO
for R.C. chan
ties. Among
hi s achieve-
ments was the
production of
the “Little
Flower” play,
which has been
performed on
12 occasions
at the Play-
house, raking
in £lOOO. Mr.
Carr has had
some profes-
sional experience, and under his’ guidance
the C.T.G. promises to become a prolific
source of profit to the philanthropic interests
it serves.
In the revival of “Peg o’ My Heart” at
the Comedy Miss Taliaferro, as “Peg,” recalls
the Nellie Stewart of years gone by. She
has a dainty figure, daintier feet, and a
pretty brogue. Her auburn locks topped
a long pale-pink organdie gown scattered
with raised roses. Michael, the dog, was not
forgotten in the after-distribution on Satur-
day, a bone tied with ribbons and a neat
little bunch of grass being tributes to his
good behavior. Great sheaves of Christmas
lilies were among the exquisite flowers
passed to the ladies of the cast. Maidie
Hope, as Mrs, Chicester, in the first act
wears chiffon with a biscuit ground, with
mauvy pink blossoms of large size. Noel
Boyd introduces color into the same scene
with a cream-and-red patterned georgette
frock and a scarlet jacket, furnishing a con-
trast to Peg’s drab green, jumper suit and
green felt hat.
Phyllis Dickinson, a singer from Ballarat,
gave'a recital at the Assembly Hall to hplp
unemployed girls. In an amber-toned gown
she sang classic operatic excerpts and some
modern songs, accompanied by her teacher,
Mrs. W. B. Carnegie, another of whose
pupils, Archie Mac Lean, a baritone, contri-
buted to the programme. Dorothy Dickin-
son, a Ballarat pianist, and Gertrude Healy,
with her fiddle, took part. The flowers pre-
sented to the girls made a delightful show-
ing on a stage that represented a bush gully.
Mrs. Carnegie was the organiser, with Keren
Kierce as lion. sec.
Mrs. T. J. Ryan, who has been acting-
president of the auxiliaries of St.' Vincent’s
Hospital during Mrs. Mersou Cooper’s
absence abroad, handed over the records of
her stewardship at a special meeting of the
central executive at the hospital last week.
In vacating the chair Mrs. Ryan praised
her co-workers, and expressed the hope that
Mrs. Cooper would long be their leader. To
commemorate wdiat has been a memorable
year Mrs. ' Cooper intends to issue a book,
“Radium—A Gift to Heal,” which will be
presented to the Mother Rcctress of St. Vin-
cent’s Hospital. Therein will be inscribed
the names of all workers and contributors in
connection with the hospital’s radium fund,
which now stands at over £7lOO.
The retirement of Miss C. Remington,
M.A., owing to ill-health, gives her friends
and fellow-
w orkers an
opportunity to
remind them-
selves of all
that her tact,
and courage
have done for
education in
Victoria.
About a dozen
years ago
Miss Reming-
ton organised
a training in-
stit u t e for
primary
tea chers m
schools. Very
soon her certi-
ficates were
recognised by
the Education
D e p a rtment.
To-day the
schools are enriched by a constant stream of
young teachers who are never unemployed.
This portrait has been presented to the
Incorporated Association of Registered
Teachers of Victoria in honor of their friend
and helper.
The Repertory Society’s production of
“Arms and the Man” at the Playhouse on
Friday presented Boneitta D. Smith, a
petite maiden with dulcet voice, as the
heroine, Ilaina. She looked fascinating in
her muslin-flounced gown and little rose
wreathed straw hat with its nodding ostrich
feathers. Dan Clifton was the dashing Cap-
tain Bluntschli. Others who appeared as
Raina during the season were Elizabeth
Stawell and Jean Scott-Simmons.
_At the recital of Dorothea MacmaSter’s
pianoforte students, all the performers were
grouped upon the stage in costumes of the
eighteenth century. With a background of
dark green curtains, the girls in their pink,
blue, yellow, green or flowered frocks, liigh-
waisted, with wee sleeves and very long
skirts, looked charming. Solos, duets and
a Beethoven quartette for two pianos figured
ni the programme. Among the soloists were
Wilmot Croskcll, Beatrice Grant and Dulcie
Logan, prize-winners at South-street this
year. Miss Macmaster played a group of
Chopin compositions, prefacing these with a
lecturette on the great Frederic. She wore
a dress with a hooped" skirt—rbse taffeta
scattered with blue bows and a garnishing of
lace frills.
After almost three years’ stay in England
and Scotland, Mr. and Mrs. Richard Gipps
have returned to Melbourne for •> time, ex-
pecting later to settle down in Sussex. Mrs.
Gipps’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. A. M. Kirk
land, who formerly lived in Brisbane but
have spent a great deal of, time in travel,
have again taken up residence in Melbourne.
Welcome was offered Mr. and Mrs; Gipps by
the E.-S.TL, to which they previously devoted
most of their time here. A great deal of
hospitality was extended to them on the
other side from the parent body and its off-
shoots, The lady occupied a great portion of
her visit in the collecting of Scottish folk-
songs and stories, and did many miles of
motoring to - out-of-the-way places in the
Highlands in this pursuit. In their wander-
ings through Scotland Mr. and Mrs. Gipps
visited Kingrockit, the famous farm of the
Hon. Mary Boyle, where excavations for
archmological relics are being carried out
under the direction of the Abbe Breuil. Prof.
Gordon Childs, of Sydney, was found with a
party of Edinburgh students digging up the
tombs of Caledonians who lived in 0000 b.c.
In England Mr. and Mrs. Gipps lived next
door to Rudyard Kipling at Burwash, in
Sussex. The Gipps family formerly owned
the seventeenth-century house now occupied by
the author, who has spent over £lO,OOO on
turning the property into a first-class farm.
Bridge was played at the home of Mrs.
F. W. Eggleston recently to help Lena Wor-
land travel to Europe for vocal study, and
there was a good roll-up, the young singer
being as popular as she is talented.
David Dow, who succeeds Herbert Brookes
as Trade Commissioner in the U.S.A., is a
brother of Amy Dow, who once collected copy
for this Page. He married Nell McKenzie, of
St. Kilda. She was a Gallery student and,
as she is still, a remarkably smart dresser.
People still remember her appearance at a
fancy-uress ball as the Soutcr girl; her coal-
black hair was contrasted with a clinging
white satin gown decorated with the famous
Souter cat in black and white. The David
Dows have one son.
“Bead and brummy” ornamentations are to
become more prevalent and more elaborate,
judging from samples on view in the
shops. Bead necklaces are shown in choker
mode, with clusters of tiny glass flowers. They
look rather prickly. The ordinary bead-necklet
has taken another turning, and consists of
blobs about as large as those on children’s
counting frames. Another type consists of
stones of all hues set in old silver and other
metals, intricately embellished. A foil set
comprises necklace, earrings, ring, a brooch
and bracelets.
There isn’t much that is new in the array
of articles intended as Christmas gifts that
are now filling shop windows. About
the most original notion this Chatterer lias
glimpsed is a little wooden rest for holding
the morning paper at breakfast. There s the
same old parade of feather-dusters, perfumes,
sets of coat-hangers and sachets of every
conceivable shape, and perfumery and soap
enough to keep the Commonwealth scented
and washed for a year. Kewpies and Dismal
Desmonds are ousted this year by Micky and
Minnie Mouse.
Constance Neville Johns, a singer, formerly
a student of the Uni. Con., who linked up
a few years ago with the Chautauqua cir-
cuit of • U.S.A., is doing her bit to make
Australia and Maoriland known to the
Americans. In between songs she gives a
little talk about the Commonwealth and the
Dominion, and is credited by the newspapers
of the republic with being both interesting
and amusing.
Visiting Mrs. W. H. Fitchett, of Glenferrie-
road, at present is Mrs. Frederick Fitchett,
widow of Dr. Fitchett, of Maoriland.
Mrs. J. Merrillees will set sail this week
on a holiday jaunt to Ceylon, where she will
join Mrs. Fred Thiel, who is returning to
Australia after a nine months’ sojourn in
England and the Continent. Also booked for
berths on the Oronsay are Clare, daughter
of Thomas Lyle and his lady, and Phyllis
Godfrey.
Dr. J. Ross Soden and his wife, the latter
known professionally as Dr. Margaret
Robertson, returned last week after an over-
seas tour of six months.
Ex-Premier McPherson spread the mortar
when a new wing of Queen Victoria Hospi-
tal was started last week. He had every
right to do so, since the addition, a complete
hospital for the benefit of those unable to
pay fees, has been made possible by his gift
of £25,000. The building will serve as
memorial to the knight’s mother, being called
the Jessie McPherson Community Hospital.
A substantial subsidy from the State helped
the good work.
Hilda Bridges and her brother Roy, after
their somewhat short residence here, are
returning to the Apple Isle, where the family
home dates back to 1820. : By the time this
Page is being read Nan McClelland will be
pouring tea at the Mocha Cafe in farewell to
Miss Bridges, who, besides writing novels
herself, types her brother’s work and attends
to the housekeeping.
The Austral Salon entertained Madame
Alice Orff-So-lscher at its monthly gathering.
Dr. Floyd gave a breezy talk about musical
progress, illustrated with items by Mr. and
Mrs. A. Raff, Maisie Ramsay and Stanley
Brooks.
A “nursery school,” the first of its kind
in Australia, has been established in connec-
tion with Collingwood kindergarten under
the auspices of the Free Kindergarten Union.
This experiment has been made possible by
a research grant of £lOO from the Rocke-
feller Trust and a further £2OO from an
anonymous donor.
Nina Murdoch, whose travel-book “Seventh
Heaven” is now in its second edition, has
another book in the hands of the printers.
It is a Christmassy story, “Miss Emily in
Black Lace,” published by Angus and
Robertson.
An opportunity to pick up something
unique and artistic in the way of Christ-
mas gifts is offered by a combined show ot
art-and-craft work at the Little Gallery m
Little Collins-street. The exhibitors are
Nora Wilkie, represented mostly by land-
scapes in water-color; Mrs. Maude Walsoe,
maker of pottery, who has produced some
beautiful wares in daffodil, yellow, green
and blue ; and Dorothy Baldwin, who shows
boxes, bridge-scorers, cigarette-holders, and
other dainty trifles embellished in Barbola
style.


Diamond Rings of Special Value
255.
Diamond Ring,
with diamond-set
shoulders, £3O.
Three-Diamond
Ring, with diamond-
set shoulders,
£27/10/-
ssssar
Calibre-cut D i a-
mond Ring, with
diamond-set shoul-
ders, £37/10/-
Two-diamond Ring,
with diamond-set
shoulders, £3O.
Circle Ring set
with 25 brilliant
cut Diamonds.
Rest value in Aus-
tralasia, £lB/18/-
Others from
£l2/10/-
Diamond Ring,
with diamond-set
shoulders,
£25
£2O
£2O
Compare this ring with any other ring
offered at the same price. The quality of
the diamond and the “Drummond” work-
manship are unobtainable elsewhere, and
it is confidently asserted that this ring,
which is the most popular design at the
present time, represents the best value in
Australia.
Country residents can purchase this ring
with the assurance that money will be
refunded if not approved of. Ask for T. 21
T. 19
Pure Platinum Wedding Rings—chased.
Wonderful value, £2/10/-
Lowest price in Melbourne for a pure
Platinum Ring. Ask for T. 19.
Also in 18ct. white gold, 21/-
Diamond Ring,
with diamond-set
step shoulders,
£3O
259.
Diamond Ring,
with diamond-set
shoulders,
£37/10/-
Calibre-cut Dia-
mond Ring, with
diamond shoulders,
£6O
Diamond R i n g
with diamond
shoulders, £B5
r J' , HE illustrations are the exact size of the rings offered, and represent
a few of what constitutes the largest and finest range of rings
in the Commonwealth. Prices of all rings can be varied according to
quality and size of gems desired.
Drummond’s rings are made in Aeir own workshops on the premises
by a staff of highly skilled ringmakers, whose entire knowledge and
ability are unreservedly devoted to their production. All diamonds are
set in pure hard platinum.
Complete satisfaction is assured or money will be refunded.
Wm. DRUMMOND & CO.,
JEWELLERS,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
lit
*.*<
m
'V ' ' A.
k ' <1 %
ikV V>
m
&
'US®
/. '-SPA
C'.-tfSSSj:
* •>
V VC
e f c
85«
iiHi
«i
m
tvs.
Mailed to you direct fromj
the factory the day they
are made.
for
Cl)rislttUls
The Famous Red Box of
HILLIERS
CHOCOLATES
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6, 20/-,
30/-, 37/6
ERNEST HILLIER,
162 Pitt Street, Sydney; and at Melbourne
fd
(PATON)
Legal Notices,
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1500 of 1930.
Between IVY EVELYN THOMPSON Petitioner
And CECIL EDWARD THOMPSON Respondent.
To CECIL EDWARD THOMPSON late of North
Sydney.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Ivy Evelyn Thompson
has commenced a suit against you in this Honorable
Court and has applied for a dissolution of marriage
on the grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the eighteenth day of February
One thousand nine hundred and thirty and in the
event of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the Petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
Solicitors free of charge.
Dated this 19th day of November, One thousand
nine hundred and thirty.
W. A. WINDEYER, FAWL & CO.,
Solicitors for the Petitioner,
25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
For the Registrar,
[L.s.] C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
SARAH ANN TAPLIN (Widow)
—Deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery Division
of the High Court of Justice dated the Bth day
of February 1926 and made in an action in the
Matter of the Estate of Sarah Ann Taplin (Widow)
deceased (late of Lealhoime Falmouth who died on
the 21st day of February 1925) Watson against
Tate 1926 T. No. 65. Whereby the following
Enquiry was directed namely.
1. —Who upon the death of the Testatrix Sarah
Ann Taplin became beneficially entitled to any per-
sonal estate of hers as to which she died intestate
and if more than one in what shares and proportions
and whether any such persons are since dead and
if so who are their legal personal representatives.
Notice is hereby given that all persons claiming
to be entitled under the said enquiry are on or
before the 20th day of March 1931 to send by post
prepaid to Edward Arthur Last-Smith Solicitor of
5 Gray’s Inn Square London their Full Christian and
surnames addresses and descriptions and full par-
ticulars of their claims or in default thereof they
will be excluded from the benefit of the said Order
unless the Court or Judge on application otherwise
orders.
Claimants are to attend personally or by their
Solicitors before Master Chandler at the Chambers
of the Judge Room 246 Royal Courts of Justice
Strand London on Friday the 27th day of March
1931 at 12.30 o’clock in the afternoon being the
time appointed for adjudication upon the claims.
A Claimant not residing in England or Wales
must send with particulars of his claim the name
and address of a person in England or Wales to
whom notices to the Claimant can be sent.
Dated the 17th day of October 1930.
PRETOR W. CHANDLER,
Master.
NOTE. —The said Testatrix was a daughter of the
Revd. Thomas Bellas Vicar of Bongate Appleby
Westmorland who died on the 15th March 1880. The
said Testatrix had a brother Thomas Bellas a
Solicitor who died at Rockhampton Queensland Aus-
tralia on the 7th December 1870. He (Thomas Bellas)
is said to have married Emily Morris in Australia
and by her to have had the following children viz.
Ada, Leila, Mabel and Geoffrey . Thomas.
RIDSDALE & SON, 5 Gray’s Inn Square, London,
W.C.I, Agents for W. . J. and H. C. Watson,
Barnard Castle, Durham, Solicitors for the Plain-
tiffs.
eXs
cMothen
Ghristmas
a new, improved
BISSELL
“Hi-Lo” Brush Control
SWEEPER
It makes sweeping so much
easier. There is no more hard
bearing down and it sweeps
any floor covering from the
heaviest carpet to linoleum.
She should have this modern
Bissell—the only sweeper with
double brush range.
At leading merchants. Booklet on request.
Bissell Carpet Sweeper Co.
Grand Rapids, Michigan, U. S. A.
Export Department, 46 West Broadway
New York, N. Y. 17
Oldest and Largest Sweeper Makers
If any illustration in “The Bulletin"
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Any boy gets an
added intrinsic
pleasure in a g'ift
from
MicK Simmons!
Essentially a man's store . . . the
place where Don Bradman works
. . . the irresistible lure of the dif-
ferent Sporting Sections . . . Mick
Summons indeed has a unique fas-
cination for the average boy.
DON BRADMAN
JUNIOR
AUTOGRAPH BATS
Junior
Special
No. 6
357-
Junior No. 6
207-
Junior No. 5
18/6
Junior No. 4
16/6
BOYS’
CANE
HANDLE
BATS
Size 3 .. 9/6
Size 4 .. 10/6
Size 5 .. 11/6
Size 6 .. 12/6
w
J
BOYS’
BOXING
GLOVES
Leather, laced
palms, set 9/6,
10/6, 11/-, 12/6.
Laced Palms,
padded wrist,
set 13/6.
gy|m|nasi jjM "
COMBINATION OUTFIT
Embraces Swing,
Rings, Trapeze
BOYS’ and GIRLS
OUTFITS
YOUTHS’ OUTFITS ..
Roman
Bar
15/6
22/6
Meccano Sets
An invaluable toy for the boy with
engineering turn of mind.
No. 000 47-
No. 00 61-
No. 0 8/6
No. i 187-
No. 2 29/-
No. 3 48/-
MECCANO
“Speed
Bicycle
112/6
15in Frame, best Weld-
less Steel Tubing, all
fittings as shown, and
Rubber Tyres .. .. 112/6
Cowboy and
Indian Suits
Cowboy, all leather, “The
Sport” .. .. .. 21/-
Cow'boy, all leather “Wing
Slides” 32/6
Cowboy, all leather “Wool
Fronts” .. .. .1-37/6
Cowboy Suits, linen 19/6
Indian Suits, linen, leather
trimmed '25/-
Indian Suits, linen 14/6
KWA
(•Carriage paid on Sports Material, but not on
Air Rifles, Toys or Novelties.)
All letters to Box' fSB, P. 0., Haymarket,
Sydney.
MICK SIMMONS
LIMITED,
72 0 HA YMAR K E T, SYDNEY


Ask For
FOLEY BROS.
X M AS
HA M S
o
P</Rl
Foley Bros.’ Crown and Waratah
Xmas Hams are outstanding ir
quality. These brands have wor
the big prizes at the R.A.S. Show
for six years in succession, 1925-
26-27-28-29-30--including several
Champion Gold Medal awards.
You pay no extra for these famous
hams.
Wholesale only from
FOLEY BROS. LT D .
353 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY
Saji’'"
19SSS.
How Rashes
Do Itch!
Bathe them freely with
CiitSenra Soap and hot
water, dry gently, and apply
Cuticnra Ointment.
It is surprising how quickly
the irritation and itching
stop and after a few treat-
ments the rash disappears.
There is nothing better for
all forms of skin troubles.
: ' -f. ' v ’ ’
Sottpls. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Ib. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W.
*o« lf f
HAIR
&
r
need
[ju
HERES
•ynuj -
1
Grey Hair is always' taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The' signs of youth should
always, be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr.. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of, grey. It is
easy and'safe to apply and : can I be done
in the privacy of tlje home.
Tints to any required shade. ;
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for-
gPCtHmS (MEXICAN)
tikUtud Siam.
♦removes the grey *
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct W 6), 6d. being postage.
@
CHRISTMAS GIFTS
LADY’S SCISSORS CASE (G 2). ’ Made of Fine Roan
leather, lined with velvet ; . size, about 7in.' x . 3in.
Containing' Ipair Cutting-out, , 1 pair Embroidery
Scissors, 15/6. complete, post free.' 1
G 5 ; Pair ; Scissors case 21/-
THE NEW WILKINSON SAFETY RAZOR, with 6
Hollow-ground Blades, Razor and Stropping Machine,
all in one, 21/- complete. /
With 2 Blades, 14/6 complete.
W. JNO. BAKER,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
PINEAPPLE and Citrus Farm, 10,000
pines, full bearing, good house, 100 acres
land, permanent .water ; .sacrifice, ±550 cash
or terms. Particulars,
0 r IT. GANNON,
Yeppbon, Queensland.
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
The Little Sisters
Lemon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
To celebrate the fifth anniversary of the
opening of Linga Longa, the seaside home of
the C.W.A.,- metropolitan branch, there was
an afternoon party. Lady Goodwin; who was
welcomed by the committee, of which Mrs.
J. P. Peterson is president, wore del-
phinium crgpe de Chine with a white pin
spot and hat of blue baku. Mrs. . Charles
Elliott gave the decorated birthday cake,
which Lady Goodwin cut,, apd the tea-tables
were decked with gaillardias and Shasta
daisies. Followed an inspection of the home,
where 305 adults and 240 children spent some
happy weeks last year.
The Australia-Italia line lent the m.s.
Viminale for a benefit for the Holy Name
Cathedral fund, organised by the Catholic
Daughters of Australia. Dorothy Perkins
roses and crimson and white carna-
tions decorated the tables, and ■ there
was bridge in the foyer. The Governor and
Lady Goodwin were received by Miss L.
Cavanagh, Captain Eslo Oliierego, and Mon-
signor Moloney, representing the Archbishop.
Lady Goodwin wore powder-blue satin; Miss
Cavanagh was in white mariette.
In honor of Mrs.- Montgomery White, who
is about to join her husband in Eng-
land, Freda Bage gave a garden party
at the Women’s College. The hostess
was in mushroom-pink beaded mariette. Mrs.
White, who is a daughter of the James
Smarts, Toowoomba, lias been a resident
tutor at the Women’s College; she was m
powder-blue floral georgette. ,
At the. Soeieta Danta club-rooms , Captain
Eslo Chierego. and officers of the Viminale
were entertained by the Italian Society, There
was music and dancing.
In honor of the silver jubilee of Archbishop
Duliig, who became Bishop of Rockhampton
in 1905, the pupils of the Brigidine Convent,
indooroopilly, gave a concert in the school-
room, “Mystical. Gifts,” the jubilee play,
was opened by a song of greeting from the
girls. . The Archbishop mentioned that the
gold watch sent to the Pope by the children
of Australia was constantly worn ; he added
that he was advocating the sending of 50 tal-
ented children on a pilgrimage to Ireland and
to Rome. The cheques handed to his Grace
on the occasion of the silver jubilee will go
towards the funds of the Holy’Name Cathe-
dral. i i
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
There was a good attendance at Chelten-
ham for the Port' Adelaide Racing Club’s
meeting, but tote investments showed a
decline. The latest idea, which is to come into
force shortly, is to admit ladies free to the
stand. The S. M. Bruces attended the meeting
as guests of the chairman (Dr. A. V. Benson)
and his wife. Mrs. Benson wore a ,navy crepe-
de-Chine ense.mble and a navy baku straw.hat
Mrs. Bruce was in black georgette, relieved
with touches of beige, and wore a wide-
brimmed ballibuntal hat. Flowered chiffons
were' the popular fancy, worn with floppy
hats.
The lovely garden of St. Wilfrid’s, the pro
perty of Mrs. F. Snow at Aldgate, was
thrown open to the public for the annual
fete in aid of the Stirling District Hospital.
The weather was delightful,- and hundreds
motored from the city. The Mayoress per-
formed the' opening ceremony, • •
Miss Barbara Brooks, just returned from
England, was given a ■welcome-home lun-
cheon party at . the Hotel Rundle. Those
present were Mary Gunson, Barbara Ives,
Margaret Holden. Mary Willox, Phemie
Armstrong, Bae Sinclair, Elbe Moreland
(England), Gwen Bruce, Audrey Young and
Jocelyn Bowman. - 5
Dr. 11. A. McCoy is off to Sydney for, his
marriage on December 3 to Moya Mackenzie,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A. B. Mackenzie, of
Neutral Bay.
The president (Mrs. Allen Simpson), the
committee and members of the Lyceum Club
will entertain Lady Hore-Ruthven on Friday
evening, December 5, at the clubrooms,
North-terrace.
In aid of the South Adelaide crbclie a
very; successful programme of dancing was
given by Miss Phyllis Leitch and her pupils
at Australia Hall. An original ballet,
arranged, by Miss Leitch, featuring the story
of Cinderella was accorded a great recep-
tion, and “The Pied Piper of Hamelin,” in
which all the. tiny pupils appeared, was
charming. Mrs. Clifford Miller presided over
the sale of sweets.
The French Clubbers closed their season on
Wednesday night* at the Adelaide Women’s
Club in Peel-street. ’ when they "presented a
French play. Miss Violet de Mole was the
producer, and played the principal rOle of
Madame Taurarie.
To raise funds for the sports association
at the Adelaide University an' open-air
cabaret is-to; be held on -Wednesday evening,
December 3. Tables will be arranged among
the arches, and there will be dancing in .addi-
tion to a programme by the Footlight Club.
The mothers of the University student's are
providing the supper.
WESTRALI A.
Perth.
Couples who returned from foreign parts
this week were the Richard Nobles, the Tom
Moores and the Eustace Cohens.
A spiteful breeze thrust its chilly fingers
through lightweight materials at the
Ascot meeting. Tweeds, hidden away with
mothballs not so long ago, had an unex-
pected outing, and berets and felts bobbed
among spring millinery. Mrs. Lyon John-
ston, just returned from Europe, was smart
in a magpie outfit; Mrs. C. P. Smith’s
diaphanous garb had an indigo background;
Nancy and Betty Hobbs sported smart and
difficult-to-wear headpieces; a pink felt hat
worn by Mollie Maliood was a pleasing con-
trast to her blue frock; black and white
toilettes, one of the pin-spotted variety and
the other of moire satin worn with a floppy
hat, were chosen by Daphne and Betty de
Bernales; Mrs. Barker wrapped herself in
a coat of cocoa-brown tweed; Judy Black
was all in blue; Mrs. B. V. Herman pro-
tected her navy georgettes with a matching
marocain coat; a dash of moss-green bright-
ened Bessie Leslie’s dove-greysg and an all-
grey outfit was favored by Mollie Shaw.
Marjorie Connolly, third daughter of the
State’s last Agent-General, has become en-
gaged to Mr. Alexander McKechnie, of
London.
Next year P.L.C. will lose the services of
Mrs. Whittaker, M.A., who has been
appointed headmistress of Ivobeelya Girls'
School, Katanning. Her husband, who was
fatally injured in a car smash, was a bril-
liant man cut off in the prime of life. A
high percentage of exhibitions and distinc-
tions in science subjects came to Scotch
College during, his. tenure there.
Quite' the most exciting news of this week
was the announcement by Pete Moustaka
and -Ambrose Cummings that they were
launching a matrimonial skiff on the 22nd
of this month. After a quiet morning cere-
mony at St. Mary’s, Colin-street, the young
couple planned to board the Manunda for a
honeymoon among the bubbling geysers and
snowclad peaks of Maoriland.
The Kylie Music Club sought inspiration
from the Russians for . its November after-
noon. Pink gladioli and deep red roses
glowed among the fine paintings and polished
columns of Mrs. W. 11. • Vincent’s music-
room at Minnawarra. Songs by Mr. Lyn
Jenkins won great, applause, and Marcia
-Hodges, in flowered blue crepe de Chine,
warbled of the windy steppes and the cold
ißussian nights. Zlata Kalmikoff. in a cream
j ensemble, played her ’cello, Gladys Cunliffe
gave piano solos, and Enid Guridill and Betty
Gravcnall joined forces for aome.. brilliant
two-piano numbers.
Two ’planes piloted by Captain - Stan
Brearley and H. F. Baker made 10-minute
crossings from the Maylands ’drome to R’ott-
nest, where a landing-ground has been
cleared among the salt lakes and .scraggy
,vegetation. This summer will see a regular
(service in addition to the little seaplane of
last year, so holiday-makers need no longer
be deterred by the fear of a rough crossing.
TASMANIA. ;
' 1 , Hobart.,
The Mayor and Mayoress bade Douglas
Mawson and his lady, with the officers and
scientific staff of the Discovery, to a morn-
ing reception at the Town Hall. A big. crowd,
civil, aldermanic, professional and social, lial
the chance of a word with the explorer and
his shipmates. Premier McPlice did not
- return from Canberra in time for the
function, but A. L. Wardlaw filled his
jshoes as Government representative. Pro-
fessor ' Mawson gave a short address, upon
-the .chief objects of the expedition. ,
i E. T. Emmett,' the Speck’s Tourisl
Director, is a man whose whole heart and
soul are in
his work.. ..He
spends most of
his holidays in
walking trips
to the com-
paratively in-
accessible
mountain ' re-
gions, and has
possibly tr a-
ve 11 e d over
more of the
island than
any other per
son in it. ; In
spite of the
had times the
Tourist De-
p a r t m ent’s
gross turn-
over for the
year ended
June last
reached record
figures, and Mr. Emmett is optimistic
enough to predict another good year. The
holding of the Forster Gup in. February
and the supporting carnival events should
draw,, a large crowd.
Before the Discovery went south again
the University Council staged an attrac-
tive show at the Masonic Hall, Chan-
cellor Elliott Lewis presiding. The lion,
degree of Doctor ,of Science was conferred
upon Douglas Mawson, and Arndell N. Lewis
became a Doctor of Laws ; after which Gov-
ernor O’Grady was officially farewelled in
liis. capacity' of visitor to the University.
Among others present were Archdeacons
Wliitington and Blackwood, Mrs. J. Ilunger-
ford, Mrs. Murray-t Campbell, Mr. and Mrs.
W. H. Cummins, the Dennis Butlers, H. I.
Co-hen, K.C. (Melb.), the Solicitor-General
and Mrs. Griffiths, Mr. and - Mrs. E. E.j
Unwin, Mr. W. H. Clemes, Lieut.-Col.- v and
Mrs Thomas. '
The Hobart Repertory Society wound, up
its 1930 season with -Galsworthy’s “Escape.”,
It is a difficult piece to stage, but Olive Wilton,
the producer, was quite equal to the effort-
The' cast was a strong;oneTv. W.-Nichol-
son'did full-justice, to the part of the escapee,!
Capt. Dinant, . and in the one scene of
relieving comedy Mrs. P. S. Shadforth, and
R Doherty surpassed themselves. ITis ,Ex.,
and .daughter Margaret smiled on the. show
for the last time. ,
The Launceston Naval and Military Asso-
ciation staged a very jolly ball at the Albert
Hall. Marcia Robson and Lieut. Duff-horbe-|
were the energetic secretaries. - The big
hall was • decorated with foliage, flags . and
colored lights, and the supper tables glowed
with roses and sweet-peas. Major I. C.
Thomson and Mrs. Burford Sampson received
the guests, and David Armitage’s orchestra-
made music.
Mrs Eccles, who has spent the last tew
rears in the musical centres of Europe,.is on
a°visit to l.er daughter, Mrs. A. V: Gjblm
The exhibition of eurhythmies at the City
Hall by Gladys Smith’s pupils drew a crowd
of parents and friends. The star turn was
the dancing of “The Sleeping Beauty to
Grieg’s music, played by Marguerite Moms,by.


Bank of New Zealand
Established. 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital ...
Reserve Fund and
Profits
Undivided
£6,858,113
4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description ot Banking Business
conducted.
600 INCREASE
in one month
in one city alone!
Established
Che Brisbane Courier
is increasing its leadership in all parts of
Queensland —the public support extended
to the State’s oldest and most influential
newspaper is growing greater each month.
News and features from the Courier do
not now appear in any country newspaper,
and country residents are therefore
demanding The Brisbane Courier more
insistently than ever before.
So if you want Queenslanders to buy
YOUR goods the quickest and most’
effective way to reach the largest number
of prospective purchasers is to advertise in
Che Brisbane Courier
The Courier Building, Queen-street.
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906
London Agent: H. C. GRELLIER, 173
Fleet-street.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N Z TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CEUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIA l lON
NORTH ISEAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAD ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNED CDUB
N.Z. GODF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. PODO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with ft
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of World's I,ending
Advertising Agen des.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. _ Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
nr 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
50
Sub j ects W eekly»
ALSO COLORED PICTURES
WORTH FRAMING.
ON SALE AT
ALL
NEWSAGENTS
EACH WEEK.
“The Australasian”
The Paper all Australians appreci-
ate, and their friends overseas, too!
NOW- THE
WORLD
N
0 :
£) -I
s-xJp,
VsMB
Vf&l
hi
sv»
\W°
NOW to the real business—seeing the
world! Canada, U.S.A., Europe.
Through bookings alnd plans made in
advance with the Union Steam Ship
Company give a novel sense of ease and
comfort to overseas travel.
Offices : Sydney and Melbourne.
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co., Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
CAN ADI AN-AUSTRALASIAN & UNION LINES
BURNS PHILP TOURS
m
?<s
I
'T
y
6^v
£
kg
VISIT JAVA
THE GARDEN OF THE EAST
Smooth Water Voyage
which is a Holiday in Itself.
Regular monthly sailings by the
popular vessels S.S. MARE.LLA,
7500 tons; M.V. “MALABAR,”
5000 tons.
Return Fare from Sydney, £Bl
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide.
Travel in Picture, Verse and Story.
Read the “B.P. Magazine,” 1/- a copy.
All Newsagents and Booksellers.
BURNS, PH lIP &C9.LTP
7 BRIDGE ST. SYDNEY,AUSTRALIA
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811
Witb which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund. .
Reserve Liability
gfgdfd
.. £7,500,000
.. 6,150,000
.. 7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSOV
Office- Georee St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedie St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal, throughout’the
drawn in
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout •
The Paper you should first select in Queensland for any Advertising
Campaign is—
The “Daily Mail
BRISBANE
Results count, and in Queensland the “Daily Mail is demon-
strating its supremacy in this respect every day. The Daily Mail
is one of Brisbane’s two morning papers, and although more than
50 years younger than its contemporary, its net circulation
both city and country has been proved by unaccepted challenge
to be greater than any other Queensland daily.
Rate Cards, Net Daily Circulation Certificate and Specimen Copies
from: —
Brisbane Daily Mail, Ltd.
Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
London: R. B. BRETT
and SON, 30-34 New
Bridge Street, E.C.4
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Ascanius . . 11,000 tons, Nov. 25
tThemistocles 11,500 ” Dec. 5
. . 15,000 ~ Jan. 19, ’3l
*First class only. fFirst and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd. j
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. j
Joint
Agents
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
One Class Only,
TO PLYMOUTH AND LONDON,
VIA SUEZ.
Calling at Colombo, Port Said and Malta.
Single, two- four- and six-berth Porthole Cabins.
SPEED, EXCELLENT CUISINE AND ALL MODERN
COMFORTS—CANVAS SWIMMING BATH.
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued frcm Sept, to Feb., £32-
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, W T ATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel • 86701 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
Tel.: 87512. 247 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker LyU l
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bricige Snout, Sydney.
T 0...
LOS ANGELES
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
... over the delightful southern
route direct from ...
HONOLULU
A
ALL the attrac-
tions that make
Southern California
one of the world’s
favorite playgrounds
spread themselves
immediately before
you when you enter
through the port of
Los Angeles!
Regular through pas-
sage fares can be ar-
ranged to Honolulu via
Canadian - Australasian
R. M. Line or Oceanic,
[Matson] Line, with a
stop-over of any length
you desire for a visit in
Hawaii.. .and then in a
LASSCO liner direct
from Honolulu to Los
Angeles over the de-
lightful southern route.
For full particulars ap-
ply at any steamship
ticket office or travel
agency, 0r...
7A-9
LASSCO
LOS ANGELES STEAMSHIP CO
HAROLD C. SLEIGH, Agent
55 Pitt Street . Sydney
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.


Without a food youi
hair will fall
Modern methods of living make it difficult for
Nature to carry out her work, for we wash
away the natural oil which protects and feeds
the hair.
The lack of this natural oil frequently spells
thin and grey hair, and, often, baldness.
Rowland’s Macassar Oil stimulates the growth
and nourishes the hair while supplying the
necessary oil.
Macassar Oil
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.I,
ENGLAND.
Of all Chemists,
Stores and
Hairdressers .
INVESTIGATE—INVEST.
There may be a few who get rich quickly and easily, but they are a mere
handful compared with the vast army that gets poor quickly in the vain
effort to emulate them. The small investor is the one most tempted to dabble
in apparently “get-rich-quick” investment offers, and he is the one hardest
hit when they do noi “come off,” as indeed they rarely do.
The sagacious citizen will turn his money over to a Bank, which is
wisely restricted in the channels wherein it may invest,- to do the investing
for him.
Investigate first, and you will find that the Savings Account provides
the safest and most convenient form of investment, and pays a reasonable
interest return, which in the long run is the safest and best kind.
There is a Post Office Agency in every town
i&imnonwealtb Savings JBank of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
m
MU.
Kii
mvlil
KS
I* i*
ii.ir'
If
WL f
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff.
Single Room and Meals .. ..
Double Room and Meals ..
Single Room and Breakfast ..
Double Room and Breakfast ..
Telephone: F 4141.
BREAK O'DAY
BY HOHN CRISP
Illustrations by Scorfield
Synopsis : Dan Digby, a giant of a
man, is transported to Tasmania for
smuggling. He escapes to the main-
land, is again in trouble, and is being
taken back to Adelaide. On the way
he refuses to go any further, and is
chained to a tree. He is saved from
dingoes by Hawke and Hales, two
other fugitives. He takes command
of them, and formulates a scheme to
take a cutter and sail to New Zealand.
He includes Sam Morgan, another
escapee, in the party. They get away
from the 8. Australian coast safely,
though short of food and water; but
only Digby reaches New Zealand. He
soon starts trading and acquiring
land, and has much success when he
meets and. marries Margaret Cameron.
He loves her as he had never loveil
before. Bess is born, the mother dies,
and Bess grows up with her father at
Maxicelton, until, on the advice of the
vicar of Moana, she is sent to an Eng-
lish school. Allan Macalister, a young
Highland shepherd, had got work near
Maxwelton, and throws himself into
the Land League movement to have
the big estates cut tip among small
settlers. He has prepared a speech
to be delivered at a public meeting.
Chapter 111.
ALLAN MACALISTER and his wife.
Jessie, immigrants from the Scottish
. Highlands, had landed in the colony
in the year 1862. They possessed in money
less than twenty pounds, and their luggage
was of less value than the homespun clothes
they wore. But they were rich in health
and hope. They had reached the land of
promise. In their Highland home poverty
had been their familiar companion. Allan’s
father had been a crofter, and twice had been
evicted from his holding. As a boy Allan
had huddled with his parents and his
brothers and sisters through a long winter’s
night on the roadside. He had never gone
to a school. He couldn’t remember when
he first began to work. Throughout his
boyhood and youth, daylight and work were
synonymous. He had worked with his
father and brothers in the fields—other
people’s fields—until his father died of a
chill. The family, when the chief bread-
winner was gone, gathered round the mother
and cherished her till her death. Then they
hastened each to his promised land. A
week before he took farewell of his native
heath Allan married Jessie McLennan, an
orphan and a scullery-maid in the home of
the landowner who had evicted his father.
They stepped ashore from the emigrant
ship at Moana, in southern New Zealand,
m a Scotch mist. On every hand they
heard the dialects of Caledonia. Said
Jessie, “Allan, man, it seems to me we
just sailed from Scotland to Scotland.”
A week later they were settled on a sheep
station, Allan as a rouseabout a.nd Jessie
as maid-of-all-work. They occupied a hut
of two rooms near the men’s quarters.
Together they earned twenty-two shillings
and sixpence a week, and accounted them-
selves “well in.”
The station, which belonged to an English
gentleman, Sir Alfred Richmond, himself a
newcomer, was one of the largest in that
part of the colony. The homestead was
situated in the Rewa-Rewa valley some
fifteen miles from the township of Maxwel-
ton, and, with the station, was called the
Hermitage.
After a year’s work Allan became a shep-
herd, and was given a bigger and better
house, and Jessie quitted the scullery of
the homestead. They began to save money
against the day, a long way off, when they
would pay a deposit on a small farm. By
the end of 1864 Allan was second shepherd,
and when the head shepherd died eighteen
months later he got that place. But he
felt that was his limit. He could neither
read nor write nor cast accounts. In an
effort to overcome his deficiency he bought
himself a primer, which he studied secretly.
He found it the hardest part of the long
day s work, and he made little progress.
He could have been taught the three R’s
on the station, but he was too proud to
admit his handicap. Concerning her own
total illiteracy Jessie made no secret. Her
ignoiance was bliss. When her signature
was required she made her mark as non-
chalantly as that flash penman the station
clerk made his flourish. No so Allan On
the emigrant ship he had, after much iabor,
learned to sign his name. Before leaving
his native village a number of valedictory
letters had been sent to him, including one
from the village doctor. After a careful
study of the several handwritings he chose
the doctor’s as being the most pleasing to
he daily sought a
secluded spot where he practised copying
the characters on the doctors envelope.
Had he copied the characters from the
fagade of a synagogue, they would not have
looked less like “Allan Macalister”; Allan’s
receipt of the doctor’s letter was less
attributable to that gentleman’s thought-
fulness than to the postman’s skill as a
handwriting expert. Allan, however, chose
the doctor, on the ground that if he was
obliged to copy he would copy the best.
The doctor was a learned man, and he
hailed from Inverness—what better could
one have than that? Yet, as it turned out
he chose wisely, and so assiduously did he
labor that at the long journey’s end he
could dash off his name in good imitation
oi the doctor’s style. His signature, by its
very illegibility, gained for him through
the years the reputation of one for whom
the pen held no terrors.
James Wiltshire was manager of the Her-
mitage. A middle-aged and a quiet man, he
knew his job and he knew men. He it was
who selected Allan at the wharf at Moana as
soon as he and Jessie had landed from the
ship. For a year past farm labor had been
very scarce. Gold had been discovered at
Gabriel’s Gully, and the rush had depleted
the farms. Wiltshire met the emigrant ship
to try to secure a few likely men for the
station. When he saw Allah and Jessie he
told himself, “If I can get that man I’ll
have done a good day’s work.” Allan stood
six feet one, had broad shoulders, not too
square, and a deep chest. He exuded
strength, but did not look like a laborer.
His roomy head was thatched with strong
black hair, and he was bearded to the chest.
He was certainly a likely man who filled the
eye. If Jessie was not lovely she was at
least satisfying—tall and somewhat angular,
with a wealth of dark hair and a pair of
well-opened eyes that seemed to snap a chal-
lenge at the world, “I know you are cruel,
but we will subdue you, Allan and I.”
"You’ll be all right, Macalister, and
111 look out for you,” were the words with
which the manager of the Hermitage en-
couraged Allan, when Jessie and he were
installed at the station; and he kept his
word.
Allan invariably did more than was re-
quired of him, and found little time to
satisfy his yearning to learn to read and
write. The higher he went the less time
he had to himself. But the ultimate goal,
to possess his own farm, he kept steadily
before him. He did not travel thirteen
thousand miles to be a shepherd all the days
of his life. The day must come when he
would be his own man.
And his other and greater project was
never far from his mind—the reduction of
the large estates, such as the Hermitage, to
small holdings, to give the people who had
the mind and the brawn to cultivate the
country a chance to do so. He attributed
the poverty of the peasant in his own
country to the fact that the land was locked
against him. Because of that he and his
people had slept on the roadside. He
found the new land in the grip of the same
pernicious system as obtained in the. old.
He proposed to rouse the people to a sense
of the wrong that was being done to them
and to the country, and to bring about, if it
was at all possible, a revolution in the
system of land tenure in the colony. In
airing his views on the subject he knew
no season. Wherever he found a few
assembled, in the men’s huts, the shearing
sheds, the blacksmith’s shop, he improved
the occasion; but he always wound up by
apologising for monopolising the conversa-
tion. Men liked to hear him. There was
that about him which compelled attention.
He was terribly in earnest, for lie passion-
ately desired to see the soil available to
every man who had the heart to win a
harvest from it.
Chapter IV.
The Macalisters expected that a child
would be born to them in the middle of
July, 1865, but as neither of them knew
much about counting, and rather less about
the period of gestation, there would have
been excellent grounds for the recording of
another ‘'remarkable coincidence” if the
child had arrived in the middle of July.
It was the 21st day of June. At mid-
day snow had begun to fall. Allan, with
ns men, was mustering the sheep from the
high lands, six miles out from the home-
stead. In the late afternoon he was sur-
prised to see a ridden horse gallop towards
him, at a pace that signified some urgency.
The horse, which seemed to make light
work of negotiating the rough country and
the long tussocks, pulled up beside him.
The rider dismounted, pushed the reins into
his hands and said breathlessly, “Get back
home nght-away; Mrs. Macalister is taken
bad.”
Good God!” exclaimed Allan, wondering
what could have happened. “Has she met
wi’ an’ accident?”
‘Don’t know,” replied the messenger, who
was a stable boy from the homestead. “But
Mrs. Wiltshire said you must go for the
doctor right away.”
Allan mounted the horse, Sarsfield, a big
upstanding Irish hunter, imported two years
previously by Sir Alfred Richmond, and
known throughout the country as the fencer
that never made a mistake. He found
Jessie with the labor pains on her, tramping
through the house from one room to
another. Mrs. Wiltshire was with her.
“It can’t be that,” said Allan to Mrs.
Wiltshire. “It’s not due till the middle of
fuly.”
“Don’t be a haverel,” snapped the
manager’s wife, a capable Scotswoman, with
high cheekbones and a blistering tongue.
“Away this minute and get the doctor. I
doubt you’ll be a father to-night.”
Darkness had fallen, and the countryside,
covered with snow, which was still falling,
had lost its features before Sarsfield gained
the main road, which ran tortuously for
fifteen miles to Maxwelton, hugging the
bank of the Rewa-Rewa River all the way.
In summer the road was a good clay track.
Thoughout the winter it was seven miles of
slush, five miles of bog, and three miles of
quagmire. The going was maddeningly slow,
and there were no short cuts. The slush,
bog and quagmire must be passed. There
was nothing throughout the journey to
ease the tension of nerves that demanded
speed and an open road. A black night:
towering cliffs to the right; the darkling
river, swollen and groaning, to the left;
the snow-laden blasts searching the marrow
of man and horse. The Irish hunter nosed
out the way, and abated nothing of his
struggle till the hard road was reached at
the town border, where he broke into his
long easy stride and a few minutes there-
after landed Allan at the doctor’s door.
Doctor Sam Neild was a middle-aged
bachelor, who had the nose of a conqueror
and the hands of a conjurer; a figure short
and spare, and a wizened wedge-like face.
An inveterate gambler, he was wholly
happy only vdien sitting at the table with
the green cloth. His medical qualification,
Licentiate of the School of Apothecaries,
was the least that a practitioner at that
time could hold. His father, himself a
medical man, had refused to support his
son as a student in London when for the
third time he failed to pass the final exami-
nation. Young Sam’s failure was due, not
to want of capacity—he had the qualities of
a surgeon—but to his skill as a billiard-
player and his obsession for the gaming-
table, which led him along the road that
the studious avoid.
When his father had cut him adrift, Sam
earned a precarious livelihood by devious
methods, until he became established as a
well and unfavorably known professional
gambler and man about town. A fortuitous
circumstance, combined with his innate skill
and daring, put him again temporarily -on
his feet, and enabled him to pass the quali-
fjdng examination. He was eating by him-
self in a night restaurant, when a clamor
arose from a table that, was occupied by a
party of elderly men. One of them, a florid
old gentleman, was choking and had fallen
to the floor, and his companions were slap-
ping his back and shouting for a doctor.
When Sam Neild had torn the collar from
the man’s throat, he was already black in
the face and near the end. There was one
thing only to be done, and Sam did it. He
took his penknife from his pocket, opened
the blade, and said: “It’s an even-money
chance.” Thereupon he cut the dying man’s
throat. That is to say, he made an incision
about a quarter of an inch long in the
trachea, and immediately the lungs began to
function. With a part of a wooden match,
the ends of which he inserted in the wah
of the windpipe, the vent was kept open.
With the arrival of a doctor the obstruction
was removed, and the patient sent to hos-
pital. It was Sam Neild’s good fortune
to have performed his first operation on a
man who had amassed a fortune in the
colonies, and had retired to his native Kent
to spend in comfort the back end of his
life. He handed Sam a lordly cheque on
the day he left the hospital, and thereaftei
became as a father to him. Sam curbed his
passion for gaming long enough to become
qualified as a medical practitioner, where-
upon he returned to the tables, and in a
few months had lost all his capital. When
his friend learned of Sam’s broken condi-
tion he offered to make him an allowance
and buy him a practice in Kent; but while
travelling to London to so instruct his
solicitors the old gentleman dropped dead.
Sam, stranded in London, applied for
and obtained an appointment as the doctor
of an emigrant ship sailing for New Zealand,
where he arrived at the beginning of the
year 1862. Hard upon his arrival in the
colony he settled in Maxwelton, and in three
years his name was a household word
throughout the county of Rewa-Rewa.
Everyone liked the irascible, hard-swearing,
clever doctor and inveterate gambler.
It was not a strange coincidence that the
housekeeper should open the surgery door
and the doctor open a jack-pot at the same
moment. Whenever he was at leisure ami
it was possible‘ to assemble a few kindred
spirits in his living-room, the doctor played
poker.
Allan, blinking in the light, and looking
like an animated snow-man, was ushered
into the roorti where the game was in full
swing. A log fire blazed in a big open fire-
place. At a table in the centre of the room
sat six men, including the doctor, with a
stack of red, white and blue chips at their
elbows, each holding five cards close up to
his waistcoat. The room was lighted by a
hanging kerosene-lamp. On the sideboard
there was a tray which held six glasses, a.
ewer filled with water, and two decanters
of whisky. The atmosphere was heavy with
tobacco smoke.
The doctor did not turn to greet his visitor
till the betting was finished, and he had
dragged in the heap of chips from the jack-
pot he had opened. Then he turned in his
chair and said, “Hello. Mac, what’s the
trouble?” As he spoke the doctor rose from
his chair and led Allan to the surgery.
Everything was moving too slowly for
Allan. Before he was well out of the


The centre of Queens/onc/s
c/Zs/rngu/stec/ Soc/o/ Life.
«otfl
Go' HDISP
BRISBANE
Magnificent Ball*
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 83211—6 Line*.
fdgdfdg
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know —from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age, It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
<T
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
\
SHARP
Owing to special
process in manu-
facture of the lead,
the “ Mephisto ,f
Copying Pencil
lasts much longer,
yet writes easily
and smoothly with-
out heavy pressure.
Medium, H ard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
COPYING
THE POPULAR
PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checking, etc.
From all Stationers, etc,
1,. A C. HAKDTMPTH. of “KOH-I-NOOR” Pencil fame.
London Office— 29. Kingeway. W.C.2
Australian Representative—
JOHN MACDOUCtALL. P O Box 165. STPNBY-
living-room he began, “Doctor, you must
come at once to the Hermitage. The wife’s
going to have a bairn.”
“What,” exclaimed the doctor, “to-night?
Are you sure it’s not a false alarm, Mac-
alister?”
“Mrs. Wiltshire says to-night’s the night,”
replied Allan with the manner of one who
held Mrs. Wiltshire to be an infallible
authority.
“Mrs. Wiltshire!” sneered the doctor.
“What does she know about it?”
“Well, you see it’s this way,” began
Allan; but the doctor cut him short.
“What nurse have you got, Macalister?”
“None, Doctor. You see, as I was going
to say, we weren’t expecting the bairn till
the middle of July.”
“All right,” said the doctor; “no one
seems to have any sense out your way, so
I’ll have to go. Macalister, you go and
engage the Garrison Hack at once. She’ll
drive out with me. You know her, I sup-
pose? Old Mother Deans. She lives in the
shanty behind the Shamrock Hotel.” He
threw up the surgery window, and
shouted into the blizzard “Fogarty!”
A voice came back through the night,
“Sor,” and was followed by the footfalls
of a man jog-trotting to the surgery door,
every step accompanied by the admoni-
tion, “Cornin’, sor.”
Presently Pat Fogarty pushed around the
surgery door a set of features born within
sight of the lakes of Killarney, and
announced his arrival with a final interroga-
tive “Sor?” and a military salute.
The doctor spoke rapidly: “Fogarty, har-
ness the pair and bring the buggy round
to the front door, and get a bottle of whisky
from the housekeeper.”
“Sor,” said Fogarty, saluting.
“W’e’re going to Hermitage station,
Fogarty, at once.”
“Gocl save us all!” was Fogarty’s pious
comment.
“Fogarty, are you quite sober?” The
doctor gave his groom a sharp glance.
“I am, sor, God help me.” Fogarty, who
had been standing in the doorway, saluted,
made an “about turn,” and set off for the
stable at a trot.
“Macalister,” warned the doctor, getting
his instruments together, “if this is a false
alarm, I’ll eat you without salt.”
“Mrs. Wiltshire,” began Allan, but
thought better of it and said nothing.
“Here,” said the doctor, handing Allan
a bottle and a glass. “Have a stiff whisky—
it’ll do you good—and go to Mother Deans
and engage her. She’s the best midwife
here, the old Garrison Hack. If she’s drunk,
don’t mind that. It makes no difference to
her. Wait with her till I come with the
buggy.” And as Allan moved to the door,
on tenterhooks to get away, the doctor
added, “Oh, and go to the hotel and get a
bottle of gin. Carry it so that the old
woman can see it, That’ll make her hurry
along. All right, go.”
Allan recovered his horse from the
doctor’s stable and made for the house of
old Mother Deans, via the Shamrock Hotel.
The doctor asked his visitors to remain:
he might get back in time for a few hands
before daylight. Then, full of regrets for
the lost game, he stepped out of the front
door, wrapped in his greatcoat, mounted
to his seat in the buggy, and turning to his
driver, said “Fogarty, if this is a false
alarm”
And Fogarty said “Sor,” and saluted.
Chapter V.
Old Mother Deans, the midwife, was
known throughout the county as the Gar-
rison Hack because it was generally sup-
posed that she had been a camp-follower
of a British regiment in the Crimea. Some
said she had actually fought in the Crimean
War as a soldier. That she had been in
the Crimea during the war seemed to be
certain, but in what capacity no one could
say, as old Mother Deans, although a most
voluble talker, never talked about herself.
If she had chosen at any time to pass as
a man, it would not be surprising to learn
that she had “got away with it.” Her
features were cast in a masculine mould,
and her voice was tuned to some key in the
bass clef. She carried herself like a soldier
on parade. Her highbridged nose overhung
a tight-lipped, sunken mouth, permitting
little space to intervene between the point
of the nose and the protrusion of the chin,
which gave to her face a Punchlike appear-
ance. She had a tongue that could blister
like vitriol.
Mother Deans strode through Maxwelton
like a menace. Irrespective of time or place,
she voiced her opinion of its people, and
made a hobby of rattling the bones of
skeletons she had dragged from secret cup-
boards. She had frequently said of Dr.
Neild that as a man he was near enough,
but no doctor at all. “I’ve asked him over
and over again what ailed this or that
person, and the damned fool said he couldn’t
tell me—said it was against the rules of
his profession to speak of a patient’s ail-
ments, as if I didn’t know the reason he
couldn’t tell me w r as that he didn’t know
himself.” And old Mother Deans would
give voice to a rasping cackle. “Ha, ha,
ha! Old Sam Neild can’t slew me. Him
a doctor! My eye!” She wore a bonnet
with a single decoration that was in keep-
ing with her military gait—a brush taken
from a soldier’s busby set severely at the
centre front of the bonnet, and the stiff
hairs of it shivered in the breeze as she
swung a.long.
Allan Macalister found the formidable
midwife sitting bolt upright, with folded
arms, before an empty fireplace. A large
yellow cat stood on her shoulder. The room
was as cold as the night without, and was
lighted by one tallow candle. There were
a small deal table and two uncomfortable-
looking chairs. On the mantelshelf was a
clock with one hand.
The reply to Allan’s knock was a gruff
“Come in!” And when he had admitted
himself he was met with, “Fancy a great
“His head was busy, too, with the stories he had heard in his Highland home of witches and warlocks."
hulking brute like you all wrapped up in
a greatcoat, fearful of a little snow! What
want you with me?” But she did not wait
for an answer, which was just as well, for
Allan was shaken by the sight of her and
her surroundings on such a night. His head
was busy, too, with the stories he had
heard in his Highland home of witches and
warlocks.
He was not permitted, however, to dwell
on such matters. “You’re Macalister from
the Hermitage,” the Garrison Hack ran
on, “and you want me to nurse your wife.
I've been expecting you. They tell me
you’re a man of sense. I knew you’d want
me when the time came. I’ve been waiting
for you. Are you having Sam Neild?”
“Ay,” said Allan, “I’ve just left him. He’ll
be here in a few minutes.”
“He’s all right,” rasped the old woman—
“so long as nothing goes wrong, and I’m
with him. It’s a pity we haven’t a doctor
in the place. I see you’ve a bottle of gin
under your arm; I’ll be bound Sam told
you to get that. You’ll find a corkscrew on
the mantelshelf. I’ve just the one cup.”
Macalister hastened to say that he could
not drink any gin, as he had drunk a nobbier
of whisky but a few minutes ago. His
apology seemed not to interest Mother
Deans, who seized the bottle when the cork
was drawn, put it to her lips, saying “Here's
luck, Mac,” and let several inches of the
liquor gurgle down her throat. She smacked
her lips, set the bottle on the table and
made a request. “Mac, go back to O’Gor-
man’s and get three more bottles of that
stuff. I’ll want them at the station. You
can deduct the cost o’ them from my wages
if you’ve a mind to, and by the time you get
back Sam Neild should be here with his
turnout and that swiper Fogarty.”
Had she told Allan to go and purchase
the contents of the hotel, he would have
made the attempt. He returned with the extra
liquor as the buggy drew up at the door.
Mother Deans, bonneted, and with an old
red shawl drawn over her shoulders, her
only protection against the storm, extin-
guished the candle, took the cat under
one arm and the gin bottle under the
other, closed but did not lock the door,
and mounted to her place in the buggy
behind the doctor and Fogarty.
“Haven’t you an ulster, Mrs. Deans?”
inquired the doctor. “Take this spare oil-
skin.” The doctor had brought the oilskin
for the purpose, knowing that Mrs. Deans
had no ulster.
“I’ll do nothing of the sort,” she growled.
“What’s the world coming to? Men all
wrapped up in rugs and oilskins like sick
women. Drive on, Fogarty. I suppose
you’ll be late as usual, Sam Neild.”
Allan placed the parcel of gin in the
buggy, mounted Sarsfield and led the way,
keeping within the radius of the buggy
lights; as the road could not be distin-
guished, he depended on the old hunter to
see them through. The woman, between
nips, chuckled and cackled in the back seat
of the buggy. She abused the horses, chaffed
the doctor, and insulted Fogarty, who was
hard put to it to hold his tongue, being
impelled to keep silent by the fear of hav-
ing his skull cracked from behind. The
doctor huddled under his rug, and thought
bitterly of the fine poker game he was
obliged to leave.
It seemed to Allan that ages had passed
since he left the Hermitage. He had ex-
pected that others would have caught his
excitement, his anxiety, his need for swift
movement, but it seemed to him that at his
approach they deliberately went into slow
motion. As Sarsfield plugged on through
the mud and snow, he was tortured with
the thought that the help Jessie was in
need of would arrive too late. The nearer
they drew to his home the more was he
beset with direful misgivings. When at
long last they turned from the bog that
was the main road to the good going within
sight of the homestead, he could no longer
restrain himself. He clapped his heels to the
sides of the old hunter and dashed towards
the cottage.
Chapter VI.
Allan spent the eight hours following the
arrival of the doctor and midwife tramping
hatless round the house. He could go
neither into the house nor far away from it.
At midnight the doctor went to him, took
him into the kitchen, told him that an
operation must be performed at once, and
tried to give him some idea of the nature
of it and the risk of it; but the distracted
man, unable to assimilate any ideas, could
only repeat the plea, which the great fear
that was in him impelled him to make,
“Save her, Doctor, save her!” The doctor,
having taken the plea as giving him carte
blanche, went back to his patient, and Allan
returned to the night, to tramp and to listen,
straining his ears for a sound that might
convey to him what was passing within.
Frequently he offered ejaculatory prayers,
and frequently he fell to cursing a.nd swear-
ing, but through the hours of darkness
(Continued on page 4®-)


f “DAGENITE” f
THE BATTERY YOU CAN ALWAYS RELY ON
L
I
F
E
•JlgSgsf:
Type 6GHX9.
p
o
w
E
R
PRICES.
6 VOLT 11 PLATE (Type 3GHXII) £4 3 6
6 VOLT 13 PLATE (Type 3GHXI3) £4 15 6
6 VOLT 15 PLATE (Type 3GHXIS) £5 8 0
6 VOLT 17 PLATE (Type 3GHXI7) £6 5 0
12 VOLT 9 PLATE (Type 6GHX9) £6 19 6
Buy a “Dagenite” Battery—Save Sales Tax,
fdg
ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
London and Sydney,
Amalgamating Peto & Radford and
Hart Accumulator Co., Ltd.
Representative - - - JOHN ARNOLD
386 Post Office Place, Melbourne, Cl.
fdg
The eighteenth hole at Pebble Beach demands accuracy
and distance, as you drive from the ocean's edge.
Great golfers
met defeat here
Play the Pebble Beach course
en route to ENGLAND
WHEREVER golfers
** gather there is talk of
the beautiful Pebble Beach
course on the scenic Monterey
Peninsula just south of San
Francisco. The United States
Amateur has been held here,
and every golfer wants to
play the unusual holes that
caused the downfall of the
game’s greatest internationa-
lists.
Why not play a round at
Pebble Beach on your next
trip to England? Your
shortest, fastest route back
home is by way of the United
States. Not only Pebble
Beach, but Hollywood, New
York, the National Parks, can
be enjoyed as you travel
across America. The cost is
moderate and the climate
pleasant all the way.
Full details will be given you
without charge by the Ameri-
can Railways Travel and
Information Bureau of the
Matson Line. Ask for free
literature, “To England
Across America.”
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL
and INFORMATION RUREAII
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Break o’ Day (Continued from page J+l.)
nothing came to him from the room where
his beloved had gone down into the valley
of the shadow.
The consuming suspense ended with day-
break. “Macalister,” spoke old Mother
Deans, and her voice now was strangely
soft and gentle, “you’re the father of a fine
boy, and his birth has been wonderful.” She
had beckoned Allan to the kitchen, where
he slumped into a chair. “What that Sam
Neild’s done,” she went on, “I’ve never
heard the likes of. The mother is all right
so far, but I’ll be nursing her for many a
day yet. I must go now. Sam Neild will
tell you all about it.” And with that com-
fort she left him.
It was in the nature of Sam Neild that
he could do a delicate and exacting opera-
tion; in the back country, under the severest
handicap, and consider the job as being all
in the day’s work. He had daringly snatched
Jessie Macalister from the arms of the
Dark Angel by meaijs of an operation which
at the time was seldom successful even when
performed under the most favorable cir-
cumstances.
Allan and Jessie had agreed to call the
child, if a boy, Malcolm; but when the
doctor explained to Allan the manner of
the child’s birth—that it was not possible for
him to arrive in the natural way, and that
the operation was known as a Caesarian
Section, as Julius Caesar was said to have
been so born—Allan slapped his thigh, and
exclaimed “And that will be his middle
name, Caesar—Malcolm Caesar Macalister.”
And so the child was called.
It was late in the afternoon of the day
following his arrival at the Hermitage that
the doctor announced his intention to
return to Maxwelton. He had nothing but
praise for old Mother Deans, whose help,
he said, had been invaluable. But now
the old midwife felt the need of a stimulant,
and approached Allan to find out what he
had done with the gin.
“They’ll be in the doctor’s machine,”
said Allan, “on the floor of the front seat.”
But Mother Deans found no gin in the
buggy) an d she had wonderingly given up
the search, when a snore from the adjoining
shed caught her ear. Proceeding thither,
she discovered Fogarty stretched on the
cobbled floor, deep in alcoholic slumber. A
few minutes later the station-hands who had
been within earshot rushed to the place,
attracted by the yells that proceeded from
it, and were treated to an unusual spectacle.
On the cobbles lay Fogarty, on the flat of
his back. Old Mother Deans bent over
him, her right knee on his chest, her hands
clutching his hair. Three times she bumped
his head on the stones, then shouted at his
distorted features, “You dirty devil, where’s
that gin?” while Fogarty yelled, “Murther,
murther! Let go me hair.” Down went his
head again—bump, bump, bump.
“The gin, Fogarty, you dirty thief, or I’ll
brain'you!”
“Murther! Saints have mercy! I’ve no gin.”
Bump, bump, bump! “The gin, where is it?”
“Let go av me, you oukl”
Bump, bump, bump. “Where’s the gin?”
“ ’Tis in the feed-box, in the stable, ma’am.
God ha’ mercy on me sowl.”
Old Mother Deans, still clutching his
hair, rose to her feet, and dragged Fogarty
to his. Releasing her grip, she fetched him
a resounding smack and made for the stable.
Having retrieved only one bottle from the
feed-box, the old woman was about to set
out in pursuit of Fogarty, who was making
good time for the shelter of the shearing-
sheds, when she was mollified by Allan, who
promised to keep her supplied while she
remained at the Hermitage. Fogarty, having
been induced to leave his hiding-place,
fluttered to the stables and harnessed the
pair, with his head over his shoulder and
his w T eather eye open.
As darkness was falling and the doctor
drove through the station gates, Allan
returned to sit at Jessie’s bedside, to look
wonderingly on the tiny features of his son,
and to dream a dream. His son would be a
great man. He would rear him right and
educate him to be fit to take his place with
the best. He would instil into him from
boyhood the crying need of the country. He
would show him that the country’s curse
was the large holdings. The boy should
have every advantage, that he might one
day lead a radical party that would drive
from office the crusted Tories who were
bidding fair to plant in the new land the
selfish system that was daily driving the
populace from the old.
He took the boy in his arms and said to
him. “I’ll never be anything but a working
bullock, but you, Young New Zealand, will
be a great man. We’ll make you that,
Jessie and I.”
Chapter VII.
In the year 1867 Sir Alfred Richmond,
Bart., had lived forty-two years. Short,
plump, fair and rubicund, he carried him-
self as one having authority to perform a
limited number of acts—all benevolent. He
had no opinions of his own. Like the
majority of mankind he had never attempted
to define anything; which is to say, he had
not begun to think. He lived and acted
according to certain forms which had soaked
into his system. The soaking began in
the nursery, was continued at a public
school, and touched saturation point when
he was graduated from Sandhurst to a
Guards regiment. When he retired on half-
pay to become a colonial squatter, he held
the rank of captain. Arriving in the colony
in the year 1861, he took possession of a
hundred and fifty thousand acres of sheep
country in the Rewa-Rewa county, whicn
had been named the Hermitage. The run
had many improvements, the most outstand-
ing being a well-appointed homestead, ad-
equate sheep yards, men’s houses and huts
and all the necessary adjuncts of a well-
appointed station. From the beginning of
Sir Alfred’s possession the place was bur-
dened with a heavy mortgage. The mort-
gagee was a company having its head office
in London and its agent in New Zealand.
Shortly after he had been promoted to
the rank of captain, and during one of his
rare visits to Richmond Hall, Captain Rich-
mond then being thirty-five years of age, his
father, Sir Buckley Richmond, had taken
him into his confidence—not fully, but about
fifty per cent. The father and son had been
discussing the past losses and the possible
future wins of the racing establishment
which the Richmonds had maintained for
four generations, when Sir Buckley, quite
simply and apropos of nothing that had
gone before, questioned his son. “Alfred,
—ahem—have you,” he asked, “ever heard
the expression, ‘ Aprcs moi le deluge’?”
Alfred, surprised at his father turning the
conversation from the only subject that
really interested them, said, “Sounds like
French, Governor. What does it mean?”
“It means, my boy,” explained Sir
Buckley, fixing his son with his monocle,
“that when I’m gone there will be little—
demnition little—left of the Richmond
estates. Egad, one hates to talk of these
things, but old Partridge has been worrying
me, off and on, don’t you know, for some
years past about the state of our affairs,
and, of course, he knows more about them
than I do. He was a partner in Partridge,
Partridge and Partridge for years before
your grandfather died. Well, my boy, since
you’ve been up here I’ve been in communica-
tion with old Partridge, and I—ah—suggested
that he should come down and acquaint
you—ah—with the state of affairs, and—
ahem—make some suggestions. I hope he
won’t bore you too much. He—ah—always
gives me a headache.”
“Oh, I expect, Governor,” yawned Cap-
tain Richmond, “he’ll straighten things out.
Isn’t that what family solicitors are for—
eh, what?”
“Fie comes to-morrow,” announced the
Baronet, rising from his chair. “To-morrow
evening you will have the—ah—pleasure of
his witty conversation. And now good-
night. Oh! Perhaps I should tell you—
rum old chap—he seems to think our—ah—
horses, the whole racing establishment,
should be sold. Richmonds without horses
—eh? Ah, ah! Good night, my boy.”
The family solicitor nevertheless demon-
strated the plight of the Richmond estates
to such purpose that within a year of his
visit to Richmond Hall the racehorses were
dispersed by public auction, and Captain
Richmond had sailed for New Zealand to
try his hand at sheep-farming on a station
that had been acquired by further encum-
bering his patrimony.
The old baronet, having found his occu-
pation gone with the dispersal of his blood
stock, did not lag superfluous at Richmond
Hall. Towards the end of the year 1861,
Partridge, Partridge and Partridge notified
Captain Richmond that he had succeeded to
the title and to the impoverished estates of
1 is ancestors.
Sir Alfred governed the Hermitage with
much pomp and little acumen, and he
lorded it over the inhabitants of the county
with much satisfaction to himself and not
the slightest achievement, either good or
bad. Most of the colonists loved him for
his title; in his part of the country they
regarded him as the natural leader, so fresh
were they from the old land. But the
station did not prosper. Prices were low
and markets far away—as far as it took a
windjammer to cover thirteen thousand
miles. The gold-diggings had broken out.
Men would not work on the land for love or
money. Who would? Why slave through
all the hours of daylight for a pittance
while others not a hundred miles away were
picking fortunes out of a gully?
Sir Alfred, oblivious to the trend of the
times, and true to the instincts of his race,
established a stud farm for breeding blood
horses, and, the better to further the project,
imported stock from England and Ireland.
Had he known a fraction as much about
running a sheep farm as he knew about
breeding horses, the Hermitage might have
had a chance of pulling through, as did
many another less-favored station where
the regime was simple and severe. But
the summer of 1867 marked the begin-
ning of the end. Every hoof on the
place was subject to a bill of sale, and the
shearing muster had shown a loss of more
than two thousand sheep. The debts were
numerous and heavy. The creditors, long
diligent, began to be disrespectful. At the
homestead there were untimely comings and
goings. Sir Alfred’s beautifully carved
mahogany writing-desk was being littered
with legal documents, many of which began,
“Victoria. the grace of God.”
The Baronet, unequal to such an un-
seemly contest, resigned his chair to the
agent of the London mortgagee company,
having first expressed to that business-like
gentleman his disgust at the loss of nerve
shown by the creditors, and retired to his
smoking-den to drink and forget it.
Even as Sir Alfred slumbered in his big
armchair, a woman tall, handsome, com-
pelling, with a purposeful face, about which
was framed a halo of gold-red hair in which
lingered the last rays of the setting sun,
sat a high-stepping and powerful horse that
approached through the tortuous pine
grove leading from the station gates to the
homestead door.
(To be continued next week.)


dfgd
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —•
Maximum life and highest'
efficiency.
Chains in stock —wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd..
CONCO3D WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., ETD., Brisbane.
N.Z. Office —93-107 Eeatherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELBEB, SMITH & CO., ETD., Adelaide, S.A.
“THE AGE”
Established 185Jf.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you neglect to use “The Age” for adver-
tising, you miss one of the most vital features
in your Victorian campaign, and no advertiser
who is spending large sums to produce,
advertise and sell an article can afford to
take that risk.
“THE AGE”
has over 122,000 daily subscribers who have
confidence in their chosen publication, and
because it is a newspaper that not only goes
into the home but reaches the very heart of
the household, the advertiser who places his
products or service on record in its columns
is assured of dependable reader value.
“The Age” publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Audited Daily net circulation
122,501.
Rates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
National Advertisers
Who l
Cover South Australia
fd
gfd
The only Pictorial
Newspaper in South
Australia offers ex-
ceptional value to
advertisers who wish
to reach the women
buyers in South Aus-
tralia. In one week
recently more than
12,000 letters were
received from
women readers.
First with the news
—first witti the pic-
tures—is the slogan
of The Register, the
paper South Austra-
lian women buy to
read.
REGISTER
NEWS-PICTORIAL
REPRESENTATIVES
SYDNEY. S.
Thompson, “Li«-
gar House, 30
Carrington street.
MELBOURNE.—
J. N. Bednall,
The Herald Office,
Flinders street.
Che mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The “Mercury” is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE “MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable * Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L, Wilson, Representative, Bisgar House,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Buil ding, E 1 'zabeth Street.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotchj price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, BW7OoB.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, "The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Do You Know ?
tt
The Week
has special columns on the following
matters of interest to the man on the
land.
Agriculture
The Orchard
The Piggery
Poultry
Dairying
In the Garden
The Grazier
Sugar Industry
Nature Notes
And many more items that will
interest and benefit him by reading.
Price 3d. per copy
From All Newsagents, or
14/6 Per Annum, Post Paid, from
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland,
who also issue “The Telegraph”
daily—l 2 noon, 3 p.m. and 5 p.m.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney..
BEECHAMS
€t Worth a
Quinea a Box
To be in .
perfect trim /
Without health you lose a great deal of
interest in life.
Constipation is the cause of most poor
health. People suffer headaches, bilious-
ness, indigestion, without thinking that
the cause is constipation.
If you suspect this to be the cause of your
poor health—buy a box of Beecham’s Pills.
This medicine is famous for its thorough
action and possesses in a remarkable measure
the power to assist the stomach, liver and
bowels to work in harmony.
A Satisfied Customer*
l 68 Charles Street,
Launcestoji.
June 11, 1929.
‘Examiner” Office, Launceston. ,
Dear Sir,—lt may interest you to know that within three days I have
received replies to my advertisement from Penguin, Huonville, Under-
wood Sulohur Creek, Mcorleah, Latrobe, Sheffield, Hobart, Winnaleah.
IMUST congratulate you on the value you give me
FOR OUR ADVERTISEMENTS.
Yours faithfully,
R. C. B. MOORE & CO.
Full information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from VV R.
TtDT PH & SONS PTY. LTD., 73-75 Paterson Street, Launceston,
M S ALLAN, 426 National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins Street, Melbourne;
W. G. DOUGAN, 726 Herald Building, 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
rfvfeuLUtin
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin"
to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please jorward The Bulletin /or 12, 6, 8 months from
/or which I enclose £...
NAME ..
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas —12 months, 30/-; 6 months, 16/6; 3 months, 8/-
W?
0
0
a?
o°
e
6)
%
S 0
•
~\\®*3
.>©V'"
0
.* ‘ 4
<#V
i 3
# 5,


three
more
~ond bcffcr
23
■L,Vq
154 K
&*tflin tins of
50 and/OO
3®
¥
W
m
1 I§ll
m
mmm
mmmmm
Niiiis
lllllii
: : 3: : SS : : : : : : : v: ; : : : : :-: : x
lllilil
iiiilifii
888
mm
m
W:S
Ilf!
m addition to
the new, differ-
ent and finer blend
of purest Virginia
Tobacco which
'COUNTRY LIFE offer,
these better corf* tipped
cigaretles also give you
3 more smokes for your
,usual eighteen-pence. 23
Country Life" for 1/6
ua lity and Quantity.
M
****ss%&
mm
H.V
Mfi
§sg
W
IK
Co «K
V/R S
ED
1 N IA
CIGARETTES
Made in Your On/n Country at the
CW ™ F “""J - Raltigi Park, -hy
r - D - #H. 0. mils (Australia) Ud
m.
