

'S
*3?
II
H
MINI« «•*
e>r#
Ss£2
4»
9S&
•M
%/M
as
w
Orit***
Litw>
THE OLDEST HORSE
IN THE WORLD!
Established 1742 and still in its prime.
Real old Scotch Whisky with a rare distinctive flavour.
A man’s drink—anytime, anywhere.
mgs,
Scotch
m
fey
Bottles.
No Corkscrew Required^.
The Bulletin
cW&b Vyicwiu Cj&ocl ; kvchluiMM (M£ .
Vol. SL—No. 2622.
Wednesday, May 14, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, IST.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


for the Library Catalogue and
terms, and lists on all subjects, which
will be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
So much of loss, so little gain.
In hours of joy for years of pain;
So much distrust of days to bel
And such is life’s epitome.
So much of suffering and grief
Which we in anguish hum endure !
So much content and glad relief
For coilds in Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
I SIU
uJJUe
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Fret
10pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 314
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
mmm
THE BREAKFAST
Host Holbrook Says:
“ My Worcester-
shire Sauce stim-
ulates the appetite
for breakfast.
Just a few drops
with the eggs and
bacon ah ! what
a delightful zest.”
*///s/s//s/////yw////s///////Ss/j.v///ss/s.
in li /'
45 '
■the Warning Sign—)
ackache
1
»>
you Realise What
May Mean ?
Backache is more than an ache —it’s a warn-
ing ! The cause is the dangerous uric acid
poison continually forming in 'the body.
Failure to get rid of this secretion means a
type of slow poisoning, with consequent ill-
health and intense pain, caused by the sharp
jagged uric acid crystals which lodge in the
muscles, joints and tissues, causing backache,
rheumatism and muscular pain and stiffness.
Allied to this is the serious possibility of
stone or gravel formations in the bladder.
THE ONE SURE REMEDY.
The safe, reliable remedy is Harrison’s Pills. These
gently, quickly and harmlessly restore the kidneys
to normal functional activity, and ensure that the
dangerous uric acid be driven from the system.
Harrison’s Pills not only stop aches and pains in
the back, joints, hands, arms and muscles, but they
soothe away dread inflammations from the urinary
tract. Too-frequent urination, getting up at nights,
severe pains in the loins, groins and sides are other
troubles quickly banished by Harrison’s Pills.
PRAISE FROM USERS.
Users axe unanimous in declaring Harrison’s Pills
the best remedy for kidney, bladder and urinary
troubles, giving' prompt relief when all else had
failed. Here are three typical extracts: —
" Three weeks ago I -sent for a sample of Harrison’s
Puls, being completely crippled with rheumatism,
and within a ■week I could walk about, 1 can’t
express mu thanks to be free from ache and pain,
after suffering so long." — (Mrs.' R. IF.)
“They’re perfect! A neighbor of mine was so bad
with'his back he could not stoop; l gave him six
Harrison’s, and before two days he teas light , and
at work,’’ —( S.T.R.)
“Harrison’s Pills have done me more good for
rheumatism than anything l have tried before.”
— (W.J. W.f
YOU, TOO, CAN GET BETTER!
Suffer no longer—delays. increase the pain and
invite deep-seated disease. Get a package of Harri-
son’s Pills at once from the nearest chemist or
store. Three sizes: 18 pills, 2/-; 32 pills, 3/-;
(>8 pills, a/-. Take as directed, and if you don’t
get real benefit from the vely first bottle you can
have your money back. If not near a chemist or
storekeeper, post your order to Amalgamated Labora-
tories, Australia House, Sydney. ACT NOW!
mzssgm
ni
•*
AUCKLAND, N.Z. (Acc. 160)
“Only UNLICENSED Hotel-de-Luxe”
C.T., P.S., and Auto. Ass’ns’ House.
Days, 15/- (two or more, 14/-) ; Weekly, 84/-
“Special” rooms (h. and c. water), 16/- or 98/-
Poor Sydney! Poor Melbourne!
Cheer up. Rich Broken Hill will
help you! £40,000 weekly paid in
wages. £2,000,000 a year! Get
some of it by using
“THE BARRIER MINER.”
The Strong Daily Paper.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
contains everything that women
should know—from kitchen to
drawing-room, from cradle to
old age- It is the most remark-
able threepenny - worth ever
printed.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
AFRAID OF FOOD.
Sufferers from indigestion very often become faddists as regards their food, and find
themselves in time reduced to a very meagre and unsatisfying diet. Hudson’s Eumea-
°l JuJobes correct acidity of the stomach, and their antiseptic properties prevent
abnormal fermentation of the food, thus allowing the natural digestive ferments to act.
and if taken regularly after meals they so
improve the digestion that a strict diet be-
comes unnecessary. Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes are most useful to those who suffer
from Heartburn, Flatulence and Dyspepsia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE—Tins 1/6.
Recommended by the Medical World, viz.
The Lancet, The Pbactitioneb, etc.
17
JUJ
MDKAhMm^UKIk
sa
HU
DSON
The Red Page
Redheap
Redheap, Norman Lindsay’s latest novel,
is an easy book to review, provided the
reviewer does not burden his task with
moralistic preconceptions. It is the story
oi the erotic life of the Piper family.
Grandpa Piper is the owner of all the
shops in Redheap, an Australian township
which has decayed to a third of its former
size owing to the collapse of the mining
industry. Mr. Piper’s sons and grandsons
run the business, but the old man sets a
smoke-screen of senile imbecility between
himself and their desire to be admitted to
a partnership in the business. Later he
shocks and surprises them by running away
with a theologically-minded servant-girl
and spending £7OO of the profits on her.
Meantime, Robert, the youngest member
of the family, is engaged in writing poetry
and seeking sex experience amongst the
damsels of the village. A genuine love
affair between Robert and the daughter of
a local clergyman goes awry owing to the
incestuous feelings of the clergyman to-
wards his daughter, expressed by opposi-
tion to all the natural outflowings of the girl
in other directions. The clergyman’s wife
has been driven to drink by the coldness
of her spouse. Robert, to use a current
euphemism, gets the girl into trouble. Most
of the other bachelors of the dreary little
township are engaged or would like to be
engaged in similar adventures. Two of
the Piper daughters are employed in a
silent contest for the affection of another
townsman. Thwarted in this direction, one
of them obtains satisfaction with a towns-
man who is married. Scarcely anybody,
whether in deed or thought, conforms to
conventional standards of propriety.
With regard to subject matter, no rea-
sonable objection can be taken to it. With
regard to treatment, however, there is
every objection. Lindsay is so eager to
enforce his views, that most of his char-
acters become caricatures. His bibulous
Mr. Bandparts is Lindsay purveying slabs
of his philosophic treatise, “Creative
Effort,” in the form of conversation. His
Grandpa Piper is frequently wildly funny,
but he is funny as a caricature, never as
a human being. And so with most of the
residents of Redheap.
A trouble with the propagandist who
uses art as a means of spreading his doc-
trines is that he never altogether succeeds
in mastering his materials. In Redheap,
Lindsay’s materials are literary composi-
tion. His style conveys the impression not
of a, British writer using English, but of an
Indian babu misusing it. What would an
Australian schoolboy do beyond tearing his
hair if asked to parse and analyse the fol-
lowing
liy scowling also about the room it was convicted
ot incompetence to supply a continuum in diversion
to bridge that gap of boredom.
This is how the writer puts the simple fact
that Grandpa Piper liked standing in the
kitchen:—
If he had a predilection in this occupation, it
would appear that he favored the kitchen for a pro-
longed assumption of the upright posture.
James Edmond has a remarkable faculty
for giving abstract ideas a concrete signi-
ficance. Thus he will speak of the birth-
rate as “the collective baby,” and the effect
is excellent. Lindsay reverses the process
by expressing the concrete in terms of the
abstract, and the result is disastrous. An
example:—
A voice, imperative from the area of breakfast,
sent an envoy with enormous feet down the passage.
In spite of its peculiar style, however, there
is a gusto about the book which recalls that
finest of kids’ books, “The Magic Pudding.”
Redheap is said to be a portrait of Cres-
wick. It certainly purports to be a pic-
ture of a Victorian mining township, and
Creswick, which has hitherto been proud
to claim the distinction of having given
birth to Australia’s most prominent artist,
is boiling with indignation. Yet nobody
in Creswick could have read the book at
that time, as it had not then received the
O K. of the young gentlemen of the Cus-
toms who act as censors of Australia’s
imported literature.
F. S.
Stuffed Owl
Lots of reasons may be advanced for the
fact, painful to poets, that poetry does not
sell well nowadays. One, that no poetry is
being written. Another, that this age has
no great spectacular poet, doing well him-
self and carrying the lesser fry through
sheer force of his own commanding merit.
\et another, that poetry has outlived its
iisefulness; that, this being an age of materi-
alism, prose is the only natural literary
medium. Perhaps the reason may really
lie in the fact that poetry, like tin-kettling
and another less polite rural night industry,
has damaged itself by having been more
often bad than good. Again, compared with
prose, statues- and mud, poetry is easily
written about, and so many charlatans have
written so much balderdash about it that
the average man, who is also the average
reader, has either seen through the pre-
tence or has been so bewildered that he has
wiped poetry out of his thoughts altogether.
For these and other reasons The Stuffed
Owl: An Anthology of Bad Verse, selected
by D. B. Wyndham Lewis and Charles
Lee (Dent) comes in most auspiciously.
As a lesser virtue,, it may help the undis-
criminating to discriminate; it blows the
gait on a large mass of pretence; and, above
all, it makes riotous reading. It might
not. amuse poets, whose proverbial absence
of a sense of humor makes such a book
possible; but poets are so given to chuck-
ling in their solemn way at the comparative
inferiority of all other mortals that the mere
clods must be nearly due for a little gurgle
back. Most of the gurgle will, of course,
be at the expense of what Mr. Lewis calls
‘that sudden slip and swoop and slither
as down a well-buttered slide, from the
peaks into the abyss”; in other words,
bathos, the commonest ingredient known to
verse. Mr. Lewis explains;—
Y\ hen some dignified, headline personage, an
eminent Academie, a gaitered Divine, an important
Aetoi-Manager, a leading Thinker, a prominent
financier skids on a scrap of banana peel in the
street and suddenly, presents his western faeade to
the shuddering stars, the impact on the sensations
of the thoughtful observer is more tremendous than
it the exercise had been performed bv a nobodv
some urchin, some shabby man of letters, some
threadbare saint.
So most ol the extracts are from poets, and
the aim has been to present only good bad
verse. If the compilers had not thus confined
themselves, Australia’s own Sir Henry
Parkes must surely have had a place, for
there is nothing in the book to better his
bathos at its best and a good deal that is
inferior to his worst. Australia has only
one representative, Adam. Lindsay Gordon,
best m the famous fight with the bush-
ranger:—
Plash! flash! bang! bang! and we blazed away,
And the grey roof reddened and rang •
I lash! flash! and I felt his bullet flay
The tip of my ear. Flash! bang!'
The compilers have excluded living
writers, chiefly on the grounds that it would
be rather embarrassing to ask them for
permission to quote from their works. It
is a pity, because if ever an age was really
prolific in bathos it is the present one.
Indeed, a leading British poet like W. H.
Davies uses the bathetic so earnestly that
it becomes a sort of virtue in him, and
American poets regard the same quality as
essential to all poetic expression. However,
within their limits the selectors do well
enough, as these few extracts should show:
He fell upon his hands in warn wet slop.
—Alfred Austin.
Come, saints, and drop a tear or two
upon the dear bosom of your God.
—Dr. Watts.
I’d Freely rove through Tempe’s vale, or scale the
giant Alp,
Where roses list the bulbul’s tale, or snow-wreaths
crown the scalp. j
—Eliza Cook.
In Rome too, liberty once reign’d; in Rome
Ihe female virtues were allowed to bloom,
And bloom they did.
—Thomas Seward.
Knee-deep in fern stand startled doe and fawn,
And lo! there gleams upon a spacious lawn
An Earl’s marine retreat.
—Alexander Smith.
Napoleon hoped that all the world would fall beneath
his sway;
He failed in his ambition ; and where is he to-day ?
—A Lieutenant-Colonel Poet'.
Of fields, of forts, of floods, unknown to fame,,
That now demand of Caesar’s arms a name,
Sing, Britons, though uncouth the sound.
—Colley Cibber.
As yawns an earthquake, when imprison’d air
Struggles for vent, and lays the centre bare,
The whale extends his jaws’ enormous size ;
The Prophet views the cavern with surprise.
* —Edward Young.
A ball now hisses through the airy tides
(Some Fury wings it, and some Demon guides),
Parts the fine locks her graceful head that deck,
Wounds her fair ear, and sinks into- her neck.
J —Erasmus Darwin.
She sat with her guitar upon her knee,
But she was not singing a note,
For someone had drawn (ah, who could it be?)
A knife across her throat.
—Earl of Lytton.
And Tennyson on the same tender theme:
The tall masts. quiv’r’d as they lay afloat,
The temples and the people and the shore ;
One drew a sharp knife through my tender throat
Slowly,—and nothing more.
Of which someone has asked what more
Lord Tennyson could have desired.
The other Tennyson examples, with those
of Wordsworth and others, are best read
in their complete form; the bathos-gains
from the extent of the glissade. Wyndham
Lewis’s introductory note, thumb-nail biog-
raphies in keeping with the general atmo-
sphere, and eight choice Beerbohm cartoons
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


Where “Truth in Advertising” ensures absolute accuracy of every description and illustration.
Commendable Thrift-
Superb Style
in these handsome
OVERCOATS
The Overcoats at Anthony Horderns* have an unmistakable air of
quality about them that distinguishes them from the average run of
Overcoats. You’ll know they’re style-right at first glance. What you
instinctively feel, too, is that they’ll wear and wear. They’ll do that
undoubtedly. And when it comes to the subject of prices—we’re
sure you’ll be surprised to find how inexpensive quality Overcoats
can be.
As Illustrated, 75/-
The double-breasted Chesterfield, shown here, is one of the smartest
Overcoats we have in .stock. It is superbly tailored in All-Wool Tweed
Coatings, featuring the latest “Chevron” stripe—Light or Mid Grey
tones. Price, each 75/-
Gabardine Overcoats, from 70/-
■; - .....
For all-round service, Gabardine Overcoats are unbeatable. They
have been specially proofed, which means that .they will resist rain,
and they are made of wool, which ensures warmth. The most
popular style is the Raglan sleeve—with or without full belt.
Linings are well chosen to harmonise with coat. The shades include
Fawns, Greys, Mole, Navy, Lovat, Heather mixtures and new tones
of Browns. The prices are exceptional. They are: 70/-, 75/-, 84/-,
00/-, 105/-, 115/-, 126/-, 147/-, 168/-, Youths from . 55/-
English Coats from 5 Guineas,
These are the London tailored “Conservative” Chesterfields, with
set-in sleeves and two outside flap pockets. Rich Rayon makes the
lining. Neat Oxford and clerical Greys, in medium weight All-Wool
Cheviots, Saxonies or Vicunas. Prices, £5/5/-, £6/6/-, £7/7/-, £B/8/-
Donegal Tweeds, 105/-
These Donegal Tweed Overcoats, made from real “Connemara”
cloths, are now in great favor because they are light in weight, long
in service and smart in appearance. They are tailored in the latest
swing-back Raglan style. Price, each 105/-
All-Wool Overcoats, 39/6
We particularly want to emphasise the great value of these coats
They are double-breasted style, with half belt and inverted pleat;
strongly lined. Obtainable in popular shades of fancy Grey. Price,
each ' 39/6
vbc
-
10
St
■■
s@|
I
BS
«i I
3 I
r
I
M
ri
I
Men’s TFear, Ground Floor, George Street.
We pay carnage.
Anthony Horderns'
(The Senior Store)
’Phone: M 21,01
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED,
SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


ORE WEALTH
for Australia !
20.000 Australians in six States help to
produce and service a famous group of cars
£12,000,000 expended in Australia to produce them
JJf VERY year the number of Australian families
without cars is growing smaller. "In i<523 an
average of t 8 out of every too families had cans.
This number has steadily increased, until now an
istimated 50 out of every too families have cars.
This record points to far more than simply growing
pleasure and satisfaction in Owning a car. Car
ownership is an index of national progress —and
what is more, a stimulus to it
Australia Leads
So it is not surprising Australia stands among the
top four countries of the world in ratio of car
ownership. Cars and trucks obviously will continue
to be essential to Australia’s development, and in
ever-increasing measure.
Conditions challenge Australia to greater home
production. Embargoes, tariffs, finances compel it.
There is one Australian motor industry which
employs more Australian workers, makes more
Australian purchases, and contributes more to efficient
motor transport in Australia than any other. That
industry is General Motors Australia.
CHEVROLET
PONTIAC . . OLDSMOBILE
MARQUETTE . . . OAKLAND
BUICK . * . , VAUXHALL
LASALLE .... CADILLAC
also
CHEVROLET TRUCKS
PONTIAC EXPRESS DELIVERIES
GENERAL MOTORS TRUCKS
This is a time for facts
FOUR years ago General Motors Australia established the
first of five great plants at Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane,
Adelaide, and Perth. Present conditions confirm the soundness
of its original policy to buy all possible Australian materials for
its cars and trucks. During the last four years £ 12,000,000
have been expended in Australia by General Motors.
To-day General Motors Australia is the largest buyer of Aus-
tralian-made bodies. It buys more Australian tyres than any other
organisation. More Australian batteries are used by General
Motors Australia, more Australian wool is used in weaving its
upholstery fabrics, and more Australian paint and Duco for
finishing than are purchased by any other motor industry.
By these and other purchases in Australia, General Motors
Australia contributes to the support of some 16,000 Australians
in various industries. In addition, its own annual wages
exceed £535,000, and support approximately from 1,500 more
workers. And the 591 dealers who sell and service - General
Motors cars in cities and outback pay their more than 3,000
employees an estimated £750,000 annually.
Australia Builds a Motor Car
Here is a total of over 20,000 Australians who participate directly
or indirectly in Australia’s largest motor industry.
Since 1926 they nave neiped to put 100,000 General Motors
cars and trucks on Australian roads.
Each of these continues to add to the wealth of Australia*
General Motors Australia Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE
SYDNEY •
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE •
* PERTH


mmmm
WIDE LAPELS
and
D. B. COAT
This fine all wool flannel
suit complies with the most
recently decreed style details.
2-PIECE
FLANNEL
SLIT
4 gns.
Of comfortable, hardwearing all-wool flannel. The
coat expertly half lined with durable Italian
cloth. The quality typical of that which has made
famous the name of David Jones’. . Suits produced by
our own skilled workmen are never other than good
fitting. Light, mid or dark grey shades at’ 4 guineas.
A similar suit, Art. silk lined, can be had for €5/15/-.
DAVID JONES’
Castlereagh, Market and Elizabeth Streets
make the book all the better, and such
inclusions as Longfellow’s complete “Excel-
sior” help it a bit further towards being
a complete groundling’s revenge upon the
bumptious bards and otherwise a happy
hunting-ground for the gurgle-fossicker.
CECIL MANN.
The Teaching of English
An experiment recently carried out by
P. B. Samson, of the Bendigo Teachers’
College, should interest “Scotia” and co.,
who have been discussing the merits and
demerits of the present system of teaching
English. The experimenter set out to find
what subjects of the school curriculum
pupils liked best. He received 765 answers
from pupils in Grades V to VIII in the
local schools. Out of the nine subjects
listed the English subjects came a decided
last. The order was: Drawing, Arithmetic
(this contrary to all preconceived notions),
History, Nature Study and Science, Litera-
ture, Spelling, Geography, Grammar and
Composition. Literature received more
fourth, fifth and sixth preference votes than
any other subject, and Grammar scored the
highest number of ninth votes, being closely
followed by Composition.
Only one conclusion can be drawn from
such a test—that in the primary schools
there must be something wrong with the
teaching of English; and if it is at fault
there, it must be at fault in the secondary
schools, because one dovetails into the
other. Exactly where and why the present
method of teaching English is at fault is a
matter for further experiment, rather than
theorising. If only “Scotia,” “Cato” and
“Hibernia” could divide a class between
them for 12 months and try out the ideals
they have aired on the Red Page—“ Scotia”
cutting out all thoughts of examinations
and broadening the curriculum with much
general reading (without notes or explana-
tions), “Cato” clinging closely to the
annotated textbooks and the present sys-
tem, and “Hibernia” forcing the adult view
and restoring Grammar (more force) to its
rightful place—and let us know the results,
we might discover the way to begin what
“Hibernia” terms “the Golden Age of Eng-
lish Teaching.” Meanwhile teachers of
English (and teachers of other subjects also)
will perforce continue to obey those pan-
jandrums—members of the various Univer-
sity Examination Boards—who set the limits
and the papers for the Intermediate and
Leaving Certificates; on whom no criticism
has any effect, and upon whose ideals all
teaching, from the primary schools upward,
is based.
[?]OUNTRY PED.
Gallipoli Memories
It is fashionable now to decry heroism,
but perhaps some of that momentarily
despised quality may not be a bad thing
for Australia to keep in her tradition in
the long run. And what more heroic than
Gallipoli? No nation "has better back-
ground than that muddled failure. It has
the one outstanding feature that pqsterity
asks of the past—it was picturesque.* Even
now, when Mars is imagined as locked safely
in the stocks, the visionary spectacle of
Gallipoli holds the imagination and may
even fire it. It is a fact that will be
admitted by all who suffered the full reality
of both that Anzac, compared with France,
was a soldiers’ picnic. It was war as war
had been known—inspiring, manly and
fairly clean. France was a swinish morass,
dull, horrible, depressing, unmanning. The
Australians fought greater battles in France
than the Landing, and performed deeds as
great. But it is the Landing that will stand
out while the memories of such things last,
at once clean-cut and picturesque as Nel-
son’s battle-order. And so long as the Day
lasts as a symbol so long also may last
parts of such a book as Gallipoli Memories,
by Compton Mackenzie (Cassell; Roycroft,
Sydney).
Not all of the book. For the most part
Compton Mackenzie’s Gallipoli memories
are detailed and personal, of little general
worth. But passages such as that recently
quoted on the Red Page by Hector Dinning
are both essential parts of Anzac Day’s
symbolism in particular, and fine writing
in general. Mackenzie says elsewhere of
the Anzacs, “They really were rather diffi-
cult; and so, no doubt, was Achilles.”
Always he sees them, not as they were seen
in France, as soldiers, but as warriors. He
goes back to the Greek for their prototype.
The perspective is true. Leon Gellert,
whose contribution to this particular
symbolism may be duly recognised in time,
also saw them as warriors. So did anyone
who moved among them and had the eyes
to see.
Mackenzie, too, gives at least one private
glimpse of them which possibly reveals what
has been rankling in the memories of the
one or two traducers. He had chummed
up with an Australian officer, and they
were having dinner together in an Alex-
andria hotel.
Every exqisite young- Yeomanry subaltern who
passed our table stared at my new acquaintance
as if to demand by what right this colonial fellow
was venturing to sit down to dine in a hotel
patronised by him. Presently, however, four Aus-
tralian troopers, each of them carrying a penny in
his right eye like a monocle, swaggered into the
room and ordered four bottles of champagne, after
disposing of which they ordered four more and then
proceeded in loud voices to give their impressions
of the manners, customs and speech of the Yeomanry.
His companion, too, had confided in him
that he simply could not stand the sight
of English officers, and had added that, if
he had the choice of fighting the English
or the Turks, he was in two minds whether
he would not choose to fight against the
English.
Elsewhere Mackenzie gets well above
personalities, and also, what scarcely any
of the popular war-writers manage to do,
above the level of the trenches to the
size of war. He does this and shows
what a blundering , mess Gallipoli really was
in one savage paragraph (lan Hamilton had
just spoken rather abruptly to him): —
1 did not know that two days ago he had sent a
cable to Lord Kitchener which, owing to the political
situation at home, would not he discussed for
another three weeks, though upon the answer to it
depended the success or failure of this enterprise.
I did not know that he had received this very day
a private and personal cable from Lord Kitchener,
in which the word “withdrawal” had been men-
tioned for the first time. I did not know that Sir
Henry Wilson had perhaps at this very moment
overcome the difficulty of persuading Sir John
French to laugh at Hazebrouck; and, since God
knows there was little enough to laugh about in
France that day, it may have been the problem of
the Aegean which coaxed reluctant mirth from the
Commander-in-Chief. I did not know that Major
John Churchill had just received a cable from his,
brother to say that he was to be driven from the
Admiralty, but that he hoped to be in a position to
help the Expedition indirectly. I did not know that
an intriguing chatterbox like Colonel Repington
would be bragging round London this afternoon how
he (with the help of Captain Stanley Wilson, M.P.!)
had overthrown the Liberal Government. I did not
know that the leaders of the Unionist party,
barren of policy yet greedy of place and patronage,
had taken advantage of this grave hour in their
country’s destiny to blackmail their rivals into
surrendering to them an equal share of the respon-
sibilities and emoluments of office. I did not know
that Lord Bertie would write in his diary to-night:
How disgusting and disgraceful are all these in-
trigues and squabbles in the midst of our life-and-
death struggle.
Gallipoli Memories is the first of four
books in which the writer intends setting
down the war as he saw it around the
-®gean and in Greece. It has none of the
heavy solemnity that distinguishes most
war books, and, though the interest of
some of it seems restricted to the writer
and those he mentions, all of it is grace-
fully written, healthy and manly.
A Satchel of Books
Gilbert the Ghost, by Raleigh King (Cecil
Palmer), is another of those works of forced
English humor for which P. G. Wodeliouse
will have to answer at Heaven’s bar. Their
resolute sprightliness is making countless
thousands blaspheme. The story, which con-
cerns a country-house ghost who is expected
by most of the characters (including a syn-
dicate of preposterous crooks) to indicate
the whereabouts of hidden treasure, lacks the
Master’s plausibility, and the style is with-
out his magic turn of phrase. The best that
can be said for the yarn is that it moves
fast and has a neat ending.
Homeplace (Philip Allan) is by Maris-
tan Chapman, whose “The Happy Mountain”
was a best-seller in the U.S.A. There is
little or no action, and the characters speak
the odd dialect of the previous book: —
“This place looks powerful honey,” Fayre said.
“Ja,” Ansen said.
“Guess I’ll be shogging off back to town.”
“Godafton,” Ansen said.
The descriptive passages are finely done, and
the placid atmosphere of patient yokeldom
which is conveyed in every spoken line has
a charm of its own. These American pea-
sants are as simple and human as Zola’s,
and infinitely more moral and sober.
By Way of Introduction, by A. A. Milne
(Methuen). The latest collection of essays
by one of the most satisfying of Elia’s descen-
dants. In the first half-dozen essays Milne
“introduces” Saki, Fougasse, Shepard and
others. He does it charmingly, but it is in
the latter part of the book, when he gets on
to “Love and Marriage,” “Spiritualism and -
Evidence” and such topics that he gives his
best. His Those Were the Days (Methuen;
Angus and Robertson) is great value for the
money. It holds four of his finest books—
“ The Day’s Play,” “The Holiday Round,”
“Once a Week” and “The Sunny Side.” It
might be suggested as a textbook for Aus-
tralia’s gloom-mongers ; it would put a grin
on the face of a sick Buddha.
The Canine King, by James L. Moore
(Standard Newspapers; Robertson and Mul-
lens). The writer of the principal part of
the book is a Melbourne business man, who
has gained world-wide repute for his sheep-
dogs. He. has kennels in every State of the
Commonwealth except South. Australia, and
is a recognised authority on the dog he calls
the Canine King, on points of its training
and general treatment. His book is put
forward in answer to thousands of inquiries
which the writer receives. Its information is
soundly and enthusiastically presented, and
there are additional useful contributions by
Joseph Moses and O. Brewster MacPherson,
a Scot breeder and trainer. Numerous
photographs, a preface by General Birdwood,
a letter from the Prince of Wales and
introductory articles by the general editor,
Frank Russell, complete the offei-ing.
Collected Poems of Edward Thompson
(Benn). Work of level merit, never soar-
ing, but almost always pleasurable in the
reading. Chief interest, both from an Aus-
tralian and more general point of view, lies
in the sheaf of war poems. Thompson was
not enraged by war, as was Sassoon, but
rather petulantly bitter; trusting in a per-
sonal God, and turning for further relief
to such landscape attractions as Mesopo-
tamia and Palestine held. There are omy
one or two fleeting glimpses of the Anzacs
in his verse :—•
This is the way the Anzac horsemen swept;
And this the way where came
The Turks, those few, like singed, fierce beasts
from flame,
Who from the slaughter by Albana. leapt,
Seeking the mountain track
To Syria’s hollow vale,
With that pursuing dread
Hot breathing at their back.
Dead ponies sprawl, on each five yards or so;
Their ribs our lorries crush,
And pound their shattered skulls into the slush.
But any who suffered that particular part
of Heil will find the whole atmosphere of
this sheaf faithful and familiar. Away
from war the author is .similarly, sincere;
but he is a verse-writer rather than a singer.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (excevt of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
and address'must appear on the-MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submntea,
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
A.G.C.: Unless you write as a specialist
on your specialty, you’ve got no hope of breaking
into the leader pages... .T.E.: Poor, time to bring
that up D.E.P.: Imaginative and exciting, but
too incredible... .N.K.C.: Quite well done; but too
late.. .. Isler: You’ll find it in one of Charles
Wesley’s sermons (92 —“On Dress”) : “Cleanliness is
indeed next to godliness.” There was an older form,
“If you cannot be goodele be clean,” but Wesley’s
is remembered after 140 years when the other is
forgotten... .V.J.: “Defeat of the Slippers” too
trifling.... E.A.: “Almost a Tragedy” all of a
tragedy... .S.S.: Another “Musician”-out... .J.F.N.:
Better, but a fair way off... .D.S.: Reads as if
you’re, very young F. 8.; No job for “The
Grocer”... .8.V.: Merit in both, but neither suits,
and someone else owns that pen-name. .. .M.E.8.:
“Request” declined. .. .S.P.S.: No doubt it does
express what you felt —to you !... .E.E.K.: Adds
nothing to the native flora... .M.E.B. (Vic.):
Returned so that you may try ’em elsewhere....
D.W.: Has a reminiscent ring. .. .K. 8.: You don’t
study your market very closely A.T.H.: Du 11....
W.R.: No reason why you shouldn’t write something
printable when you find something worth saying....
C.B.fb: Don’t quite make the weight... .G.K.S.:
That was jolly of you, anyway.... .M.R.S.: “Ode to
a Sausage” reluctantly declined.... Ripponlea: Glad
to hear from you again. Try another... .E.D.S.:
Enter, with poem attached: —
Road
Strait winding
Grump
Disaster.
“Basket” is the missing word. .. .M.S.: Don’t fancy
spectacle of bushman wearing roses in his hat “an
aching heart to mend”... .E.M.: It’s simple, anyway.
. ...C.H.: One crowded hour in the smugglers’ den:
A fight is on, the mob rise up
And mill around a space.
Two painted girls with marceled curls
Tear at each other’s face.
A flashing gleam—a piercing scream,
A lunging knife goes deep.
Then o’er the floor out through the door
They drag a sagging heap.
... .5.8.: On that sample the best advice is to stick
to prose.... R.McD.: You don’t win any royalty for
the exiled queen bee.. . .A.H.N.: Something in it,
but not enough. .. .P.D.: Hollow as a bookmaker’s
congratulations. . . .Fugue : Not keen on gush... .
W.C.8.: If we thought that highly of anything
we’d submit it to the “Judgment Day Chronicle”. . ..
0.U.: That self-expression is the end of art is a
dear, sweet fallacy... .L. 5.8.: Has its moments....
A. : The archaics lead into a forest of jumbled
imagery.... 609: You didn’t hear much listening
in. ~ .L.J.Q.: On the young side. Scores of your
age write like that, so forecasting is futile....
B. : Slender peg to hang 16 lines 0n... .R.G.D.:
Bit off the track.... C.T.: Dpn’t care for Rahab....
Len: Well enough done, but slight.... Thespec: In
topical verse it isn’t enough to find a good printed
peg and whittle it out in metre... .R.H.A.: Weeks,
if not months, too late... .H.J.: That fashion note
is wearing threadbare... .M.P.: Thin, and disjointed.
... .D.C.: Hackneyed, except for the swain... .A.T.:
Raw stuff L.W.: Dress it up again and try a
flapper paper. .. .N.A.G.: Poorly put together....
P.8.M.: It mishandles metre pretty badly. .. .A.0.M.:
Thirty-eight stanzas of inquiry without a solution!
What are you—a Royal Commissioner?. .. .S.M.: It
seems lucky that muses don’t throw stones... .C.C.:
Basket fodder. .. .K.S.: Left the salmon gums, went
to the city, didn’t like the city, went back to the
salmon-gums. Not much of an odyssey... .J.J.H.:
The kindergarten becometh enlightened: —
As a mere youth, came to my eager ear
A vagrom word, of meaning not quite clear.
So of my parent, as was e’er my rule,
1 queried: “Dad, what means this word ‘bullswool’ ?”
He sternly gazed, considering the while,
Then, “Son, your lips this word must not defile !
It means the talk that’s swallowed by a fool.
Some call it ‘heifer-dust’ and some ‘bullswool.’ ”
. ...H.M.: Came, as you feared, to “a sad ending.”
.. . .L.M.N. : Not up. . . . Jackardy : Trifle optimistic.
....Pom: Likely enough you’ll do better... .0.H.:
“At Camden” seems rather monotonous. .. .A..J.5.:
Drought is a barren source of inspiration.... D.M.:
You’d get better results by reading the lyric in
praise of work from any of the regular soapboxes....
K.S.: Got away badly and never showed signs of
picking up T.D.J.: Saving the printer from all
those inverted commas. ... Z.U.W.: One page was
enough... .S.A.P.: Construction fair; don’t care for
the idea.... M.C.: Not for us; try something in
our line. .. .1.M.8.: Dream girls are a drug on the
market... .R.N.A.: Good materials spoilt in the
cooking. . . .G.T.: Too much scaffolding. . . .E.L.M.1.:
It would make a passable par J.S.: Interesting
in a mild way; stronger plots and better handling
needed... .P.K.: Cut down, it might do for a travel
magazine... .S.M.K.: “0. Henry”, did it ever so
much better... . J.T.M.: Longs winded... .S.H.T.: A
case of faulty workmanship. .. .J.H.E.D.: Grand
Guignol—Goanna Vale foal turned loose with the
brumbies. .. .W.E.8.: Plot would go on a pin’s
head, and you ran a steam-roller over it....R.C. :
No room for sentimental tomato-sauce maker....
A.M.A.: A conventional love yarn with lurid head-
lines. .. .T. 0.5.: No, tosh. . . .C.J.8.W.: If we hadn’t
met sleuths and barmaids we might have said yes.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.D.: No accommodation for petrified boarding-
house group.. . .W.R.: Deadbeats left out in the cold.
. ...S.C.: You must have been fagged when you
started to draw their legs.. . . A.T.J.: Perfunctory
work... .M. 8.: Learn to draw before experimenting.
. ...H.E.M.: Drunk who wanted to pay lobster's
tram fare has been heaved out many times....
S.A.N.: Nervous scratches and a great-grandfather of
a joke... .U.J.: Poor composition, and untidy pen-
work E.S.: Futuristic, yes, but not funny....
N.F.: Inferior. .. .R.W.H.: Cartoon carrying 11 labels
rejects itself... .D.D.: Thumbs down. .. .G.P.: Pity
you didn’t view “A Midnight Carousal” in the cold
light of dawn....C.A.: That ghastly gag again !
. ...W.N.: Humorless. .. .F.H.B. : Just smudges....
R.D.: Linework wouldn’t stand reproducing....
M.P.K.: Cat burglar won’t steal into these pages.
. ...W.H.L.: Old, old !... .S.D.: Drawings came out
of the Ark, and jokes were probably smuggled in
by one of the Noah family.


k -V
yutyuty
mmmm
mmm
dfd
Agents for New South Wales t MESSRS. TUCKER & CO.. L.TD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2622.
May 14, 193(h
THEIR FIRST TASTE OF IT.
FIRST POLITICAL BRASS HAT: "Isn’t war hell, Edward Granville?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 214 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 879 H.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
VVestralia : 3S Barracl: Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4 5 .; 5 months, 12s. 6d.;
S months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
<1 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10os., Id. United Kingdom: 4oz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional joz., Id. All Sea Iloute: 160 z., l\d.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES . . 2. 5
NORMAN LINDSAY’S “REDHEAP” . . . . 2
AN ANTHOLOGY OF BAD VERSE . . .. 2
THE TEACHING OF ENGLISH . . . . 5
GALLIPOLI MEMORIES 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . . . 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON . . . . 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
THE GREAT GOLD BRICK—IS DEMOCRACY
A DUD? 8
WHEN BRITAIN WAS THE RICHEST LAND
ON EARTH 8
CHOOSING A LIFE OFFICE 8
A CLUMSY GOVERNMENT 9
“SELLING” PUBLIC ENTERPRISE . . . . 9
PAPER ISN’T MONEY 9
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL . . . 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with eartoonlets by
Frith) 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . . . 11, 12
“The Merry Maytime,” by “Iford” . . .. 11
SHADOW SHOWS—
A GUIDE TO THE PICTURES 13
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 13
PERSONAL (with drawing of Amadio by Low;
and others) .. .. . . . . . . 14
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. 16
“A Country Girl,” Sydney Majesty’s .. .. 16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 17, 18
THIS WEEK’S INVESTMENT TIP . . ..17
COLONIAL SUGAR 17
PERPETUAL EXECUTORS, W.A 17
ILLAWARRA STEAM 17
MOTOR AND CASH ORDERS 17
BON MARCHE 17
FRED SIEFERT (N.Z. FLAX) . . .. 18
INVESTMENT QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 20, 21
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 25
WHY NOT A STANDARD SUPER? .. ..22
SHOULD SECOND-HAND BAGS BE USED?.. 22
LABOR COSTS OF SHEEP AND CATTLE ..22
QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. .. ..25
HOW TO KEEP FARM ACCOUNTS . . .. 25
Free Service Department 26
SMOKE-OH (with three drawings) .. .. 28
POVERTY POINT 31
THE INKY WAY' 31
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, etc 33
SPORTING (illustrated) .. .. .. 35, 36
ROSEHILL RACES 35
SANDOWN PARK 35
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER (with illustrations
by Frith) 39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 41
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 44
The New Serial—
“THE PASSAGE,” by Vance Palmer.. 42, 43, 45
“As We Said Before”—
A NEW WEEKLY FEATURE .. ..47
A COMPLETE STORY—
“MERCY,” by W. Charnley .. .. 49, 50
VERSE.—By Arthur 11. Adams, J. Holloway,
M. Forrest, R. Crawford, Will Lawson.. 45, 50
NEXT WEEK.
“ALL FRIENDS” —a complete story, full of
human interest, by Margaret Fane and Hilary
Lofting.
The Repertory Theatre and Amateur Theatricals,
with many humorous illustrations by Frith.
Bond Issues.—The “Wild Cat” will have some-
thing to say about Timber and Other Bond Issues.
tte&aOdim.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 14, 1930.
THE GREAT GOLD BRICK.
For fifty years the object of the greatest
political struggle in the world was to put
the government into the hands of the people.
For the past thirty years the object of the
greatest struggle has been to take the gov-
ernment out of the hands of the people.
But whereas the earlier struggle was honest
and above-board, the later struggle has
been furtive and underhand. And the most
astonishing thing is that it has been quite
as strenuous and persistent among those
who sought to win the power for the people
as among those who fought on the other
side.
There is an illustration of that in the
disturbance which has thrown the principal
N. S. Wales coalmines out of work for
14 months. Throughout that period not a
single ballot has been taken among the idle
workers. When they were locked out —on
grounds which were probably quite good
though the action itself was quite bad—
they were not consulted as to whether they
would accept the terms offered to them.
When after many weary months of hopeless
struggle a compromise was offered them,
no ballot was taken. The terms were put
to mass meetings, and an open vote was
taken, if any was taken at all. It was
not a matter even of the men following
their chosen leaders. A little group of so-
called militants within the union was
stronger than the leaders —stronger merely
because more willing to do physical harm
to their opponents. No more deadly blow
at democracy could be conceived; yet these
militants are able to posture as the very
standard-bearers in the battle for the rights
of the people!
The truth, of course, is that these so-called
champions of the people not only distrust
the people but have the utmost contempt
for their capacity for managing their own
affairs. The majority are, in the words of
one who professed to speak for them, “poor
boobs who don’t know what is good for them.”
That it is the “poor boobs’ ” bread and
butter which is at stake is of no consequence
whatever. Hence we saw lately how bitterly
certain well-paid officials fought the pro-
posal to ration the work available in the
N. S. Wales railways. Had the usual pro-
cedure been adopted and the “militants”
been allowed to decide the matter, there
ip no doubt in the world that the Commis-
sioner’s scheme would have been flung out
ignominiously; but on this rare occasion,
when the verdict of the “poor boobs” was
taken, there was an overwhelming majority
for acceptance. So far, however, from help-
ing other “poor boobs” similarly situ-
ated to get the same chance to govern
themselves, it is certain that the result will
be regarded as further justification for de-
priving the people of their rights.
In the strictly political sphere the posi-
tion is the same. For three years the city
of Sydney has been in the hands of a Com-
mission, government nominally by the
people having developed largely into gov-
ernment by crooks. The Bavin State
Ministry, believing that the people should
rule, decided to restore popular government,
but neglected to take precautions to pre-
vent popular government being again
merely a name. Consequently an “inner
group” of the Trades Hall got to work and
selected the Labor candidates; and the
thing will happen here that happened on
the coalfields—the vast majority of working
men will lodge no audible protest, lest a
worse thing befall them. On the other
side of the political fence much the same
sort of thing goes on. On the plea that
organisation must be met with organisation
candidates are chosen and “endorsed,” and
all that is left for the voter to do is to
swallow what is offered him.
How to restore to the people what was
given them and has been taken from them
is one of the great problems of the day.
It would be bad enough if their possession
was put to no use; but in many cases, per-
haps most cases, it is taken from them and
put to a bad use. The mere fact that
those Northern miners had the right to say
“No” but dared not exercise it, their right
being in effect taken from them, gave to
the militant few who roared “Yes” an
authority they would not otherwise have
had. The mere fact that the Labor hosts have
the right to repudiate the ex-parson Garden
and will not do it, no matter how small
the coterie by which he was “selected,” may
quite likely land him in the Lord Mayor’s
chair. Our public life has been given over
to the place-hunter who regards the vote
merely as something which can help him
to power, with victory most certain for
the man who can best manipulate, it; and
our present financial embarrassment is
almost wholly due to the fact that that
manipulation and attempted manipulation
has been done mainly with public funds.
Perhaps the size of the problem of re-
storing to the people what has been taken
from them has been miscalculated. If they
can be got to realise what they have lost
and what the loss is costing them, it seems
very likely that the problem will to a great
extent solve itself. Anyhow, there can be
no hope of a solution until the people see
what has happened.
WHEN BRITAIN WAS THE RICHEST
LAND ON EARTH.
“Only one man proclaimed himself as a ‘high
tariffist’ at the public meeting convened by Mr.
James McMahon on May 6, to ‘take measures to
educate public opinion against excessive Customs
tariffs.’ About 60 business men and others formed
themselves into an association to be known as the
Tariff Reform Association of Australia.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
The time when Britain was the richest land
on earth was shortly before the advent of
Freetrade, or the date commonly accepted
as the advent. But this statement doesn’t
cover the United Kingdom without reserva-
tions. Ireland’s position was exceptional.
That luckless country, short of coal and iron
and other minerals, had closer settled on the
land, with the remarkable result that it
had become one of the most densely
peopled territories on earth, with over three
times the population of Scotland, a king-
dom of great mineral wealth and almost
exactly the same area. It was like putting
6,600,000 people in little Tasmania. Almost
contemporaneously with the arrival of
Freetrade something broke, and Ireland
entered on a career of depopulation, unique
in peace time, losing about half of its
8,175,124 inhabitants in 70 years. But the
U.K., even with Ireland included, was won-
derfully rich, and Great Britain, with the
barren Scottish Highlands thrown in, was
especially so.
In those days wealth wasn’t precisely
what it is now. In 1848 all the known gold
in the world was estimated at 560 million
pounds, being the accumulation of all the
ages; in 1875 it was put down at 1000 mil-
lions; in 1913 at 2063 millions; and in 1928
at 2402 millions. In the days before
Freetrade John Bull was sitting hard on
most of the gold there was. He was the
supreme manufacturer of the globe. In
fact, he considered himself the only one,
and though machinery in the forties of last
century looks pitifully unproductive now,
it was a great position to hold. It would
have been a greater one only Europe,
slowly recovering from a series of terrible
wars, was a poor customer as modern ideas
go, and the Dominions had hardly begun to
count. Britain had the best artisans in the
world, and, considering their skill, they
were very cheap. It had become a world
financier, but until railway building and
other startling events became common,
there were few enterprises, except wars,
for which big loans could be floated. The
position was only a modest improvement
on a much earlier one, when Pharaohs
employed their subjects on pyramids,
images, temples and tombs in the slack
season, because they had no idea about
building railways and motor speedways.
Britain felt itself so comfortably off in its
Protectionist days that it levied no income
tax for 26 years prior to 1842, a thing that
has never happened since.
A time came when the United Kingdom
had 11,000,000 more inhabitants than the
United States, and had them on a much
smaller space, and found them increasing at
the rate of 3,000,000 between censuses. So
it decided that cheap imported food
would be a good idea. It also did something
(though there wasn’t much to do) at reduc-
ing duties on raw materials, because Eng-
land, Scotland and Wales were, and were
to continue, the world’s workshop, and they
wanted to ensure their position. The pro-
gramme was, however, sadly disarranged
when some Protectionist foreigners also
began to make up raw materials, and to
pour manufactured products into John Bull’s
universal workshop. They did this at a
rate which amounted to £424,823,000 in
1920, and then John began to fear lest
the business was being overdone. x
Australian Freetraders, who are fairly
numerous and very soaked with the lore
which Britain produced in and about its
transition days, argue with great intensity
that Australia should follow Britain’s
example. They are mostly a bookish lot
with no personal experience of industrial
affairs or national finance. The point they
most persistently overlook is that Aus-
tralia has none of the reasons which led
its parent to his remarkable experiment,
and plenty of those which led the United
States and Germany in the opposite direc-
tion. Australia isn’t a world’s workshop,
or anything dimly resembling one. It has
no great body of artisans who can claim
to be the cheapest in the world when their
wages are measured against their skilled
value. It isn’t a great exporter of manu-
factured wares. It doesn’t want to import
cheap wheat or low-priced raw materials
for its factories. Instead, it is struggling,
partly by taxing its people for the pay-
ment of bounties, to be an exporter of
cheap raw materials, and of surplus wheat
in particular. Australia is no vast ship-
owner humping materials of many nations
on many seas for a big consideration.
Rather it pays away ridiculous sums for
the hire of ships to carry its own materials.
And when the Old Man in London aban-
doned Protection he owed no external debt
(though he owes more than enough now),
and was paying off his local war debt. Aus-
tralia is an incurable piler-up of both sorts
of debt, and is in dire straits because of
the inability to pile harder.
The two countries have a resemblance, as
in each case exports are insufficient to cover
imports, and the resemblance ends there.
But the Old Man has an external income
from foreign loans, foreign banking busi-
ness, and from shipping and other services
rendered to people abroad which his Board
of Trade reckoned in 1928 at £500,000,000.
That pays for his surplus imports, and
leaves him something over to lend to dis-
sipated sons and others, if he thinks the
security sound. He began being a world’s
banker, carrier and commission agent in
pre-Freetrade times, and the business has
grown, though profitable jobbing abroad
doesn’t prevent unemployment at home.
The Commonwealth, instead of having 500
millions coming in as interest from foreign
investments and for services rendered, has
to pay 35 annual millions out under the same
headings. That summarises the reasons why
we can’t be like J. Bull, though we can
be like what he would be if the positions
were reversed.
CHOOSING A LIFE OFFICE.
If you have to pay a man £4OO in two
years’ time, and you decide to put by
equal amounts per quarter for the purpose,
you know that at the end of the second
quarter you ought to have £lOO in hand.
But if you put the instalments in a savings
bank and add interest to principal, you
know that something less than £5O a quarter
will do the trick—how much less depends
on the rate of interest. There are tables to
tell you to a fraction how much you must
lay by: the lower the rate of interest the
larger, of course, the instalment . . '
That certain knowledge is one leg on w
life insurance stands. R]1 +
Nobody knows how long he will live,
the average life of any 1000 healthy 111 ,
of the same race and country and ol go
habits will be almost exactly the sain •
And the average years of life left to' a l*y
1000 healthy men at any given age wilt
almost exactly the same as the average
years left to any other 1000 healthy men
of the same age and race and country an
habits. That sure knowledge is the otnei
leg on which life insurance stands.
When a man proposes for life insurance,
the office, having ascertained his age and
satisfied itself that he is healthy and of good
habits, knows how long he may be expected
to live. To that knowledge it can add
its other knowledge, and thus determine how
much he must pay per quarter or year to
produce the amount he asks to be insured
for, assuming that the instalments will earn
an agreed upon rate of interest.
But that is not all he must pay. There
are the expenses of getting the policy and
running the office. Add this to the other
amount and the total is the premium pay-
able.
Now, however, various things may hap-
pen. First, what is known as the mortality
experience may be unexpectedly good—or
bad. The office does not know how long
any policy-holder will live; it only knows
approximately the average. If in any year
the average age at death is higher than that
expected, the office collects more premiums
and earns more interest than it figured on.
Second, it figured on earning, say, 3 p.c.
interest, and it actually earned, say, 5i p.c.
Third, it may have carried on the business
at a lower expense rate than it provided for
when it was drafting its tables of premiums.
Thus from these three causes or some of
them the actuary may find that the office
has more funds in hand than are neces-
sary. Having surveyed every policy
and determined how much the office should
have in hand towards paying it when it
becomes a claim, and having totalled these
amounts, he compares the funds in hand
with this total. If the funds are the greater,
the excess is available either for bonuses or
to put aside for contingencies.
The office which assumes a low rate of
future interest earnings must have more
funds in hand to produce a given result
than one which assumes a high interest rate.
Therefore, other things being equal, the
office with the low assumed rate is sounder
than one which assumes a high rate. Also
its bonuses are likely to be larger. The
expense rate is also important. A high rate
means low bonuses or no bonuses at all; a
very high rate may cut into the insurance
fund and prejudice the payment even of
the amount of the policy.
The insurance fund is never wholly in
money or liquid assets. Hence, because
other assets may be good, bad or indiffer-
ent, it is very necessary to have some idea
of what they arc. The weakest office is
the one with the largest proportion of in-
tangible assets—such, for example, as
“Establishment Account” or “Business Ex-
tension Account.” Yet some allowance must
be made for a young office. Such a concern
must almost inevitably have some such
“asset.” But no policy should be taken in
an office of this grade without most careful
consideration. If the office has been in busi-
ness for some years and is still adding to
that account, it should be passed by. The
fact that it may have share capital in excess
of the intangible “asset” does not overcome
the objection. Unless the capital is written
off (and you cannot depend on that) the
chances are that it will be replaced out of
future profits, if any are made; which
means diminished bonuses.
At the other end of the scale are offices
with a tremendous asset which they never
show in their balance-sheets. That is, good-
will. There are very few businesses in
which goodwill counts for more. It may
mean all the difference between a high
expense rate and a low one, and therefore
between insecurity and security as well as
between poor bonuses (or none) and good
ones. For this goodwill means not only
that a number of policies can be got
cheaply, but that policies once got can be
kept; and early lapses are a great drain upon
an office. This goodwill need not necessarily
be reflected in immediate high bonuses. It
may be reflected in a steady reduction of
a previously high expense rate; or in a
steady improvement in the quality of the
assets; or in a large growth of policies that
stay with the office. But these are excep-
tions rather than the rule.
And high bonuses, even continuous high
bonuses, though usually significant of
valuable goodwill and good management,
are not to be accepted as the sole criterion.
Apart from the factors just mentioned, the
premium paid has to be taken into account,
and the basis of calculation is also some-
times of consequence —as, for example,
whether age “next birthday” or “near-
est birthday” determines the premium to
be paid. And, though net premium is
important, security is infinitely more im-
portant. Moreover —though this can be
only a matter of judgment—one is entitled
to consider not only the bonuses and
security offered to-day, but the prospects
in both respects for the more or less distant
future. As to this, however, all that can
be said definitely is that it is a matter
for one’s own judgment, and certainly not
for the judgment of anybody interested in
selling us a policy.
S. H. P.


THE OBJECT LESSON.
“An association has been formed in Sydney to show the public the advantages of Free trade.”
THE FREETRADER: “Rut, my young Protectionist friend, why do you bring me here?”
THE PROTECTIONIST: “To show you, my elderly Freetrade friend, the graves of the little ones who died because their mothers forgot they were babies.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Clumsy Crowd.
The troubles of the Scullidores are only
beginning. They badly misjudged public
feeling on the returned-soldier question,
and they have underrated the power of
sentiment in other matters which they have
handled, more or less awkwardly. For in-
stance, they excluded Hollywood films
from the November tariff revision; excluded
them also from the later surcharge on
imports and embargo on superfluous
luxuries. This curious and unexplained
exemption has played right into the hands
of the Government’s enemies, who contend
—and would have contended in any case—
that the tariff measures are anti-British
and pro-American.
Again, there was an excellent case for
the appointment of an Australian as Gover-
nor-General; much could have been made
of Dominion status, for one thing. But
it was allowed to get out that the Govern-
ment had nominated Isaacs, the new C.J.,
and the thing took on the appearance of
a heavy-handed attempt to interfere with
the King’s prerogative; that and a scheme
to “democratise the Bench,” as a Labor
paper gleefully put it, with a side glance
at the transfer of Lukin, J., from the Arbi-
tration to the Bankruptcy Court.
And the dragging of the unification issue
into one of the Constitution Amendment
Bills is sheer folly. It destroys what, until
recent weeks, looked like an eminently
favorable chance of securing for the
Commonwealth full industrial and trade-
and-commerce powers, and a referendum
this year will now be merely a waste of
time and money.
♦
“Selling” the Public Service.
The walls of the places where the Aus-
tralian public comes into contact with Gov-
ernment departments are as liberally
plastered with “Thou shalt nots” directed
at customers as they were fifty years ago.
Latterly, however, side by side with the
notices that inform railway passengers that
they mustn’t spit, smoke, swear, talk to the
driver or put dynamite beneath the sleepers,
and the ukases that warn people who enter
post offices against committing various
dreadful offences, there has crept in a more
brotherly note, so to speak. In Vic. and
N. S, Wales especially there has been a
sprinkling of gay posters on railway stations
depicting some of the delights of railway
travel, and even, in a dignified way, try-
ing, as the Americans would say, to “sell
the railways” to the people who are sup-
posed to own them. The Post Office is
also doing a little advertising, to popularise
the use of radio. They are moves in the
right direction. If these and other public
utilities are to pay their way they must
work at full instead of two-thirds capacity.
They must be “sold to the public,” be-
cause nobody else is likely to buy them at
a remunerative price.
In Maoriland, where that idea intruded
itself earlier than it did in Australia, the
State’s postal, telegraphic and telephonic
monopolies have been made profitable—
they pay more than the interest on their
capital cost —by earnest attempts to find
out the best means of inducing people to
use such services. The reduction of charges,
in that instance, has had almost magical
effects on revenue. In the railway field the
task has been more difficult, because land
transport is no longer a State monopoly,
but the position is improving. As in the
case of the Post Office, there are business
managers in the various centres whose job
is to sell railway service and see that the
public gets the kind of service it wants.
Advertising of all sorts is being tried—an
effective picture recently circulated through
M.L. newspapers shows a train carrying
people and another being carried by people.
“By riding in the train you won’t have
to carry it!” is the slogan.
All this means a change in the attitude
of the civil servant to the public—a change
long overdue—and the development of
that change can helpfully proceed along
the lines of making the civil servant realise
that he is a servant and that he must be
civil. That won’t put the most humble
official on a less dignified footing than a
Prime Minister or a Chief Justice or any
other useful citizen in or out of public
employ, and it will certainly increase his
value to the community.
4
Paper Isn’t Money.
“Everywhere one reads of the shortage of money
causing unemployment. All work is paid for in Aus-
tralian notes and there are just as many of these
in the country to-day as there were 12 months ago.
Therefore there should be the same amount of money
in circulation. Therefore there should be the same
amount of work. What has happened?”— Service-
Department inquiry.
When Australia has a drought we do not
expect business to be brisk or work
abundant. People who have less to sell
have less with which to employ labor or buy
at the shops. It is the same with Australia
now. We have borrowed between 30 and 50
millions a year, and have employed labor
and bought goods with the proceeds. Now we
cannot borrow, and the effect is just the
same as if we had been struck by a drought.
On top of that comes the fall in the
markets for wool, wheat and metals; which
means that there has been a further stop-
page of the inflow of funds.
For many years T he ..Bulletin has been
trying to get Australia to realise the differ-
ence between paper-notes and money.
When we borrow or buy abroad we have
to pay the interest or the purchase price
in real money; paper is no good whatever.
Our present trouble is to raise real money
—or real goods that can be sold for real
money. The scattering of notes in Aus-
tralia does not help us at all. It is rather
calculated to do the other thing, absorbing
labor in non-productive jobs and pushing
up .its price, thus making it more difficult
to produce things at a price which will
allow us to sell on the world’s markets.
The mere existence of vast quantities of
paper with certain printing on it does not
mean either abundant work or business
prosperity. You cannot have these two
thiqgs without confidence—that is, belief
that there is profit of some sort in the
undertaking. During the past 12 months
millions of pounds which ought to have
been available for industry have been put
into public securities, bank deposits, and
the like. Scores of projects have been
knocked on the head, not because there are
not enough notes and silver in Australia
for the workmen’s wages on pay-day, but
because high taxation and other circum-
stances have made it very doubtful whether
the expenditure would show a profit.
For a self-contained country, buying
nothing outside, selling nothing outside, bor-
rowing nothing outside, currency is not a
matter of much consequence. But when
you have foreign trade and foreign financial
connections, then your paper should bear
some relation to your capacity to redeem it
for real international money. If there is
any suspicion that you have run the print-
ing-press too hard, then your note is quoted
at a discount—as indeed ours is at present;
and the discount would certainly be greater
if our issue of paper was made greater
without solid backing. Though eight hours
of labor may be rewarded with one pound
of such a note issue, the product of that
labor, offered . abroad, might be saleable
only at a price much below a pound. And
that would be the real value of the labor;
the other would be fictitious.
*
Preference to Returned Soldiers.
The campaign to destroy military senti-
ment in Australia on which the Government
embarked when it suspended compulsory
service has found its latest expression in an
attempt to set aside the principle of prefer-
ence to returned soldiers. This attack was
bound to come, for the soldier is proverbi-
ally an object of dislike to the non-soldier
when the immediate necessity for his exist-
ence has passed—-and that is a truism which
dates back far beyond the days of Blind
Belisarius.
The fault is not altogether with modern
Labor either. Many folk who still pay
fair lip service to the preference principle,
and would scorn to openly associate them-
selves with the policy of Federal Ministers,
have been ignoring it in practice for years.
These are the people who have encouraged
the Government to attempt the dirty thing;
that it failed can be put down to the
Ministry’s clumsiness more than anything
else.
♦ •
Indian Turmoil.
With the arrest of that pathetic dotard
Gandhi the effervescence in Northern India
should soon be over. Press hysteria in
various parts of the world has made the
situation seem much worse than it really
is. It is already evident that British autho-
rity has the situation more completely
in hand than in the early period of similar
attacks. There is at least no indication ol
mutiny among European troops such as
that which smirched for ever the record
of the once-famous Connaught Rangers on
a former occasion.
The present disturbance would have been
scotched if the lesson learned in 1923, when
Gandhi headed his last campaign of contu-
macy, had been taken to heart. On that
occasion the Governors of Bombay and
Madras declared they must resign if
Gandhi was not arrested. Arrested he was;
and though he had much stronger backing
than he has to-day—from an important
section of the Moslems under the brothers
Ali—his campaign collapsed like a house of
cards. There is every reason to suppose
that the belated arrest now effected will
have the same result.
The truth is that, of India’s teeming
millions, only a small percentage has ever
heard of Gandhi, while a large proportion
cares nothing about his doctrines. The old
pundit has been used for years as a stalk-
ing horse by the half-baked intelligentsia of
Bombay and Bengal, who are the vociferous
minority making all the fuss about “India
for the Indians.”
♦
“As You Were” in Egypt.
Last week’s collapse of the Anglo-Egyptian
negotiations in London will be received
with relief by those sections of the Empire
whose interests are closely bound up with
British control of the Suez Canal. The
breakdown was not unexpected, though the
willingness of the British Government to
remove its garrisons from Cairo and Alex-
andria to a line drawn through a treeless
and arid desert half-way between the Nile
and the Canal caused consternation among
the considerable European population of
Egypt settled in the Nile towns —it had
good reason to dread being handed over to
the mercies of the mob rule which has so
often disgraced the history of these cities.
The conference split upon the question of
the Soudan,’ the “return” of which the
Egyptians demanded with characteristic
effrontery. The slender control Egypt had
in the past over the Soudan was chiefly
devoted to gathering raw material for that
slave trade which Egypt was the last
country of any importance to openly con-
duct. In insisting on regaining what it
never effectively possessed, it has now
lost the concessions embodied in the draft
“Mahmoud Treaty” of last year, a treaty
which the national Parliament adopted,
and which its delegates to the confer-
ence have persistently attempted to alter.
The result will be practically a return to
the terms of the 1922 “Reservations which
were subsequently confirmed by the first
Ramsay MacDonald Government. Under
these, Britain retained the right, while
granting actual self-government to Egypt,
to arrange for the security of the Canal,
the defence of Egypt against foreign aggres-
sion or interference, the protection of
foreign nationals and their interests in
Egypt, and the administration and control
of the Soudan.
The Egyptians have missed the substance
in grasping at the shadow, as they have
always done.


The Spirit” for Happu Motoring
?A
o
'
mmm
mmm
SHELL
S 100.6.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A wonderful number of House of Reps,
members has arisen to state that pernicious
persons, names and addresses not given, have
taken advantage of the new tariff to raise
prices. As a rule Scullin says the matter
will be looked into. He should change his tac-
tics, and demand a public statement of the
name and address of any alleged offender as
a preliminary. Thanks to Parliamentary
privilege a member, so long as he talks inside
the House, may tell the whole truth or the
entire lie about anybody with impunity. He
may profess that he is reluctant to injure
private individuals, but private individuals
who do the deeds he alleges should be in-
jured. He himself often looks like a man
who would gladly injure anything.
The I-logan Gov-
ernment, which pro-
mised that it would
keep down prices, is
watching with in-
terest the passage
of the Consumers’
(Council Bill, a pricc-
fixing device,
through the British
Parliament. Indian
yogis are .said to
gain enlightenment
by contemplating the
pits of their stom-
achs for extended
periods, and the
Hogans might try
this method. Other-
wise they would be
better employed in
studying the history
of Victoria’s own
experiment in price-
fixing in 1920.
While the Sculli-
dores were still in-
volved in the trouble
they brought on
themselves, Premier
Hogan assured Bour-
chier in Vic. Assem-
bly that preference
to returned .soldiers
A possible
alternative.
would be continued by his Government.
Three of his Assembly lieutenants (Slater,
Webber and Pollard) are Diggers, and
another, Bailey, saw service in South Africa.
Counting two S’African veterans, there are
a score of war-scarred men in both Houses,
including a quartette of colonels —Bourchier,
Knox, Forrest and Cohen.
In 1927-28, 5,419,045 tons of shipping came
to Australia from foreign ports. Of this
395,680 tons was Australian-owned, and pre-
sumably its earnings were spent here ; where-
as the money earned here by the 5,023,365
tons foreign was spent somewhere else. This
hiring of ships to conduct a bloated com-
merce is one of the big holes through which
Australia’s money dribbled away.
On May 8 Commonwealth 5 per cent,
stocks were selling in London at £9l 17s. 6d.,
and 6 per cent, stock was £99 17s. 6d. On
the same day Maoriland 6 per cents, were
worth £lO5 55., which was an injurious
differentiation, to quote an ancient Bruce
Smithism. The worst-looking sample in the
collection is South Australian 6| per cent,
stock, which sticks at £99 12s. 6d., the
Federal guarantee notwithstanding.
The privilege of appointing its own muni-
eipal fathers
has been re-
stored to the
city of Syd-
ney, Premier
Bavin’s con-
science being
unable to
stand the
strain any
longer. But if
Labor gets in
it will be by
c o ncentrating
its vot i n g
power on the
selected can d i-
dates, and the
“militant” crowd
in the Labor
executive selected
these candidates,
including) Jock
Garden, who
practically chose
himself. The
city Labor Leagues were brushed aside.
So the city isn’t making great progress at
choosing its own rulers, after all.
Donald Grant had a brief and miserable
career as a selected Labor candidate for
Sydney City Council—about as short as that
of Arthur Griffith, who was received back
into the Labor fold after many years and
thrown out again a day or two later. Four
Laborites wanted the three seats for Phillip
ward, aiid Donald was top with 17 votes.
Then presumably somebody breathed in some-
body's ear, and there was a recount, or a re-
fake, or something, and Grant was bottom
with 14 votes, and out. The incapacity
which made such a muddle of the counting
of 62 votes that each of the four totals
was wrong is remarkable.
Westralia’s Leg. Council elections —they
are held in May every second year—will
alter party strengths little, if at all. Labor
anticipated a win in the South Province,
but returned-soldier Jim Cornell is safe. J,
M. Drew, a member of every Labor Ministry,
wins Central (Geraldton) easily. In the
Met.-Sub. constituency butter-merchant
McFarlane (Nat.) has whipped the retiring
member, Stephenson, of the same party.
McFarlane it was who beat Walter Kings-
mill, then President of the Council, for the
Metropolitan Province in 1922, a reverse
which led to Kingsmill entering Federal
politics and becoming President of the
Senate.
A by-election in the London borough of
Fulham is being mentioned as a sign of the
times. At the general election the Labor
candidate won, with the Conservative fairly
close up and the Lloyd-Georgeite left half-
way down the course.. This time the Lloyd-
Georgeite took a rest and asked his old
supporters to vote Conservative. lie says
he still believes in Frectrade, but it is
making no progress among the nations, and
he apparently feels that it isn’t going to
make any. In other words, it is an honor-
able but obsolete profession, like being a
Jacobite. The Conservative scored.
It is three years this month since the
Federal Parliament moved to its new quar-
ters. The original cause of Canberra was
the resolution of N.S.W. State Frighters
that the Federal metropolis must be in their
State, and that it must never have a hope of
being a rival of Sydney. So they found a
spot without coal, iron, navigable water or
water power, away from the highways of
trade except in the sense that it is within
five or six miles of a dead-end branch rail-
way, and with a winter record of 38 below
freezing-point. Now State politicians at
Sydney wonder what profit their predeces-
sors of the State Fi’ights days thought they
saw in the business. Some of these ances-
tors would have died in battle for Can-
berra when Carruthers was king.
The F.C.T. lias cost “approximately
£10,000,000” up to date, according to Minis-
ter Blakeley. Canberra itself is planned as
a city of 100,000 people. It had got as
far as 6878 when the Commonwealth Statis-
tician last reported, and at present the popu-
lation is declining through reduction of Gov-
ernment employees. With 8534 people in
the whole territory expenditure has been
£ll7l per inhabitant, practically all loans.
Canberra is the only capital of an entire
continent that exists or is known to have
ever existed. It has the rare distinction
of being a Government leasehold enterprise.
It is alsor a metropolis in two fragments,
912 square miles being around Canberra
itself, and 28 square miles on Jervis Bay,
about 60 miles distant, and with State soil
intervening. Jervis Bay is supposed to
supply a port for the capital, but a pas-
senger who lands there and starts to carry
his bag to the city must feel disappointed.
A new organisation arose the other day
when about 60 men met in Sydney and
formed “The Tariff Reform Association of
Australia,” for the usual purpose of encour-
“AIN’T MY PALS PLUCKY?”
“Mr. Hughes said he had shown himself to be a
friend of the Government.... Mr. Hughes con-
gratulated the Government on its courage in with-
drawing the cancellation of soldier preference.”
aging imports
and putting
the cloven
hoof into Aus-
tralian manu-
facturers. The
convener was
Jam e s Mc-
Mahon, who
has been edu-
cating public
opinion in favor of
Foreign - trade as
head of the “Town
and Country
Union,” which is
practically defunct.
He said that £2500
a year would be
required to teach
the people the evil
consequences o f
high tariffism, and
that seems darned
little, but it will
have to do if more
is unprocurable. R. Windeyer, K.C., was
present and became a member of the “preli-
minary committee.” He is mixed up in
many movements, Billy Hughes wasn’t
present.
It was obvious that Gandhi would have to
be arrested sooner or later, and the indica-
tions are that bloodshed would have been
averted if the step had been taken sooner.
The irony of it is that it should have
devolved on a British Labor Government, to
put behind iron bars the mildest-mannered
man who ever set a country ablaze. Agitators
of the Gandhi type could always rely on
sympathy from Labor when it was in opposi-
tion, but Labor in office can no more afford
to disregard the advice of its Viceroys and
Governors than any other party.
Pressure from non-Labor sections in Vic.
Assembly and threats of Upper House action
forced the Hogans to compromise on their
taxation scheme for raising £700,000 or
more to find work for the unemployed. There
is now to be an additional tax of 10s. p.c. on
incomes in the £5O-£Bl2 group, other than
salaries and wages; on incomes from £Bl2
upwards, whether from wages, salaries or
other sources, the super-tax will range from
10s. to 265. p.c. Wages and salaries from
£1 to £6 a week, both inclusive, are to carry
a stamp duty of Id. in the £, to be collected
weekly by employers.
Queensland’s Moore Government, which
took over a lot of unexpended loan money
from McCormack (now facing, the storm of
the Mungana-leases inquiry), is employing
2000 or 3000 men on relief works, paying
Benedicts £3 per 44-hour week and bachelors
£2 10s. There have been fierce cries of “wage-
cutting,” but Brown, secretary of the Water-
side Workers, says it is “an excellent scheme”
and should have “wholehearted support.” The
N.S.W. Bavin Government has put 1000
men on at £5 a week for shovolliug sand.
It talks of raising £3,000,000 for the unem-
ployed by means of a special income-tax and
a salary cut in the departments, but is
characteristically indefinite as to whether the
tax is to be Id., 2d. or 3d. in the £ and the
cut 10, 71 or 6 p.c. Whatever the money
may amount to, it won’t last long on a £5-
a-week basis.
The close season for Federal Royal Com-
missions is over. At a meeting of the Public
Accounts Committee, which, has been con-
sidering the compensation claims of the broad-
casting cos. snuffed out in Bruce’s time
(very unfortunately for listeners-in), Roland
Green, M.H.R., said that a man at Canberra
had made allegations of bribery, specifically
mentioning Coleman, M.11.R., the chairman,
and that he (Green) liad been “approached”
by another party. A Judge is to be requisi-
tioned for the inquiry, at which Coleman will
not be present—he is going to Geneva.
The defeat of the attempt to abolish pre-
ference to Diggers was defaced by a lot more
mudslinging than attended the pardoning
of British civil servants who escaped con-
scription by registering ther'sclves as con-
scientious objectors. Out of nearly a quarter
of a million male civil servants, 230 were
“conchies”; their plea was accepted, but
they forfeited promotion and pension rights.
Those rights were restored to them last
month, and though 149 Commoners opposed
tlie motion in the interests of returned sol-
diers there was singularly little bitterness m
the debate.
The South African Government lias
awakened to the fact that the Communist
is everywhere, and that in a land where there
is a big colored population to work upon he
is an especial bore. Hertzog is accused ot
having looked with a negligent eye on dubious
immigrants so long as they were non-British,
having an idea that they might have Dutch
sympathies. Now he has acquired the
impression that they have only Moscow
sympathies, and that a w T ar against the
white man’s civilisation is brewing, so he is
taking active steps. Smuts has been roused
to denounce the Riotous Assemblies Bill as
being unprecedented in the British Common-
wealth, to which Hertzog replies, with the
support of a large majority, that he doesn’t
mind in the least. If foreign agitators are
arrested and deported without process of law
Hertzog reckons that it will give the law
a well-earned rest.
There is a demand in Melbourne for an
over-riding authority to take charge of
arterial roads in the metropolis. At present
some of the main thoroughfares are shared
by half a dozen bodies. In one case, the
right side of a road is in the hands of one
municipality and the left in another’s. The
left-hand council is without funds and its
half is unusable, with the result that traffic
going both ways seeks the crown of the road,
and accidents are frequent. Traffic rules also
vary. The incoming motorist must stop for
stationary trams, the outgoing driver needn’t,
and the bewilderment of the pedestrian is
dreadful. Hogan proposes to give the autho-
rity to the Greater Melbourne Council —if
and when a Greater Melb. Council event-
uates.
The Scullidores’ “splendid surrender” (as
the “Age” calls. it) on the preference issue
has shown what a power the R.S.L. can
be when it is roused ; but it plainly needs
a new Federal president. Mr. Dyett has
held the job too long. It was the atti-
tude of the State executives and branches
that put the wind up the clumsy Govern-
ment, and, significantly enough, the Pri-
minister expressed no gratitude to them,
though he went out of his way to thank
Mr. Dyett for being affable and considerate
and all that. Some people think that pre-
ference would, never have been attacked if
Ministers hadn’t counted on the R.S.L. being
as easy to deal with as Dyett. If there is
one thing the organisation ought to stand
for, next to the rights of A.I.F. and
R.A.N. veterans and the memory of their
dead, it is the defence of Australia, yet one
shattering blow after another has been deli-
vered at the defence system—the latest
strikes nine infantry battalions and two light-
horse regiments off the already “revised”
army list —without a word of protest from
the fatally-amiable Dyett.
Maoriland dropped in at the J. Bull Loan
and Discount Office the other day to speak
about a bit of cheap accommodation, and the
welcome was friendly—far in excess of any-
thing that Australia has received for a long
while. Yet Maoriland’s debt is almost
exactly the same as that of Australia in pro-
portion to population. One difference is a
matter of the hackneyed balance of trade.
The Dominion, like the Commonwealth, was
smitten by the fall in the value of its
exports. During the year just closed (Maori-
land makes up its accounts on March 31)
its sales abroad were £8.100,000 less than for
the year before, yet they were only £122,000
The welcome customer.
short of paying for imports, and that was
a very unusual circumstance. In eight
months to the close of February Australia’s
exports were £30,000,000 short of paying for
its imports, and a shortage has been a regu-
lar thing. The fact that Australia doesn’t
produce enough and wallows in foreign
goods a great deal too much means that it
wants big external loans to pay for imported
luxuries, and though Bull wants to sell the
luxuries he has become scared about furnish-
ing the loansc
THE SINE QUA NON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Latham said that the Government had
retreated from an untenable position, but the
speeches would not be forgotten in which they had
contended that the man who joined a trade union
deserved better of his country than he who offered
his life for it.’'
Tlie sound of the cheers and speeches had
hardly died away
Or the wreaths on cenotaphs faded, laid there
upon Anzac Day,
When the word went forth from the rulers:
“Fear not we shall ever forget
The debt we owe to our Diggers, for that is
a sacred debt.
They went where their country called them;
they fought and they faced the worst.
But the men who heard the unions calling—
their claims come first.
“Think not we rate them lightly, medals in
battle won
Telling of service rendered and of duty nobly
done.
We cheered when the flags were waving and
the drums a welcome beat,
And the streets and the squares re-echoed
to the tramp of marching feet.
But stars and crosses and ribbons still leave
us cold without
The good old union ticket —when jobs are
being handed out.
“We are proud of the fame they won us,
of the deeds of the hero-souls
That are writ in a nation’s annals and cut
upon honor-rolls.
They gave their best for their country, yet
how can their best surpass
The debt we owe to the stalwarts who stand
as firm for a class?
Though we needs must bow to the tempest
that round our heads has burst,
Deep in our hearts we cherish the slogan
‘Unions First.’ ” _
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
SINCERES' LOYALTY.
“Don’t forget, old chap, you. owe me a fiver.”
“Old man, could I ever forget such a friend?”
“Trayder” : Razzledazzle and Co.’s account
was long overdue, and wo threatened pro-
ceedings. “Dear Sirs,” they wrote in reply—
“We beg to apprise you of our method of
dealing with accounts. On the 15tli of each
month we place them in a hat, from which
six are taken at random. These we pay.
If we have any more letters like yours of
2nd inst. you will be left out of the hat
next month.”
*l* :]:
“Shep”: Nearly everybody on the staff
had a key to our office ; the chief strongly
objected to seeing employees hanging round
of a morning waiting to be let in. The
scheme worked all right till that eventful
public holiday. It was a bleak wintry day,
with little promise of outdoor amusement, and
during the morning the caretaker bustled
down to the street door to admit one of the
typists and a male escort. Later Correspon-
ence arrived to “pick up a few papers he’d
forgqtten,” bringing a lady friend. Gertie
and her beau swapped romances in the outer
office, while Correspondence and his acquaint-
ance settled down more comfortably in the
boss’s sanctum. All went well till the door
opened again, admitting two others. The
chief was one, and his companion wasn’t his
wife. He smiled in a sheepish way as
Gertie and her young gent, bustled out, but
his jaw dropped at the sight of his own
daughter sitting in his armchair with Corres-
pondence for a cushion. Introductions were
rather awkward. After that Correspondence
had the job of collecting all the stray keys
and the responsibility of opening up of a
morning.
# %
“Tributer”: A louvre truck which pulled
up at our little Vic. railway station was a
study in chalked characters. On one end
was the legend :
EMPLOYEE’S FURNITURE—TREAT GENTLY.
On the other end—
YOUR COMRADE’S EFFECTS—HAVE A HEART!
Lower down a wag had added —
EGGS AND OTHER EXPLOSIVES—DON’T BREAK !
* * * -1=
“K.C.P.S.”: Peppery Judge Rogers once
got a shock at Young (N.SAV.) when
dealing with a horse-stealing case. Accused
had been arrested on an old warrant. A
strong case was made out by the Crown and
previous convictions were proved, horse-
stealing being one of those offences where
this evidence can be given before conviction.
Accused, who had refused counsel, addressed
the jury from the dock. He was too old a
horse thief, he said, to perpetrate such a
silly robbery in the foolish way alleged by
the Crown. He had stolen many horses,
but. not this one. The jury was plainly
impressed, mucli to ’s Honor’s disgust.
“Speak up, man; I can’t hear you,” ’s
Honor barked presently. “You shut up,”
the prisoner retorted; “I’m not talking to
you.” The Court subsided in horrified amaze-
ment. It was useless giving 48 hours to a
man who was trying to dodge a sentence of
seven years. Fortunately for accused the
jury believed him. His Honor might have
had a very weighty last word if given the
chance.
* * * *
“Bildad”: A company-promoting narra-
tive with features of its own is interesting
the courts in Melbourne. The stories of
great wealth in whales caused the Aus-
tralian Whaling Development Syndicate to
decide on a company in 415,000 shares, a
minimum of 75,000 to be sold before registra-
tion. It promised an- agent 10 per cent,
commission to place the shares. He employed
sub-agents at a smaller commission, each pre-
sumably carrying a sample whale. Business
was slow, for though the out-back farmer is
ready to fall for most things, fish enterprise
doesn’t appeal to him. With the advent of
a rival show sales practically ceased, and
the parent co. gave up the ghost, leaving
its agent minus the sums he had paid to his
deputy whalers, much of which was raised
on promissory notes. At latest advices he
was missing and so were the whales, and
dissatisfaction prevailed all round.
“Penfield”: They were two white men,
George Russell Mayers and Willie Munro,
who were the heavyweights in the business
of Cairns (N.Q.) 25 years ago. Keen after
a bargain they were; but they both knew
when to cease being keen. A well-known
pioneer of the North died leaving his widow
a small cattle station and not much besides.
To the Cairns man who had advised this
pioneer for several years came the widow,
seeking guidance. She had been offered
£3500 for the property—should she take it?
She had no idea what it was worth, she
said, and was wholly dependent on her
friend’s advice. He was no cattle-man, how-
ever, and had no idea either. “But I'll find
out for you,” he said : “I’ll ask a man who ;
does know.” Along he went to Willie Munro.
“You know Mrs So-and-so? Well, she
doesn’t know what to do about her cattle
station —it’s about all she’s got and she’s
been offered £3500 for it and she’s come to
me for advice. I told her I didn’t know
enough about cattle, but I’d get the straight
wire from a man who did know. And that's
you. Now, what ought she to do?” “Um,”
said Willie Munro, thoughtfully. “Well, you
tell her not to sell under £6OOO. It’s worth
it; I know because I’m the man that has
offered the £3500.” Munro died 15 years
ago ; his old colleague on the Mulgrave Mill
board has just followed him over the range.
$ * $ $
“Chevroford”: Little Bourke-street is not
being hit by the depression. For their
numbers Chinese have been the biggest buyers
SHE KNEW WHAT IT MEANT.
AUNTIE: “Did you bring all the eggs, dear?”
NIECE (daughter of ardent fisherman ): “Yes, auntie, all except the bait.”
at the Melbourne Motor Show. One wealthy
Celestial placed an order for the Rolls-Royce
which stood in a special stand of its own,
and he blandly remarked that there was
already one in the family. Another disciple
of Confucius put down the deposit for a
Safety Stutz and made his son a present of
a new Morris Minor.
:’= * *
“The McTavish”: Few people in Aus-
tralia nowadays “have the Gaelic.” When
the Darling Downs were first occupied by
folk like the Leslies and the Macdougalls, it
was possible "to ride for a half a day across
the unfeneed runs without meeting anyone
who could speak any other tongue. The
shepherds were Highlanders, who had been
brought out with their families; naturally
the younger generation picked up English,
but many of the old folk never managed to
do so. Once a quarter the Rev. Allan McKil-
lop, of Brisbane, preaches a sermon in
Gaelic to keep the embers aglow. Only a
few of his congregation understand him, but
as he repeats his discourse in English every-
one goes away satisfied that it was a
gr-rund threepenn’orth.
* * *
“Oro”: Contraband is sneaked into most
gaols, but at Yatala (S.A.) “working in”
is an organised trade. “If you have the
money we’ll get you the stuff” is the slogan
of the lags who condlict the illicit “post
office.” Goods regularly “worked in” are
spirits, tinned foods, frankfurts, condensed
milk, matches, newspapers, lewd pictures,
and (of course) tobacco, prison currency
throughout the world. For every £1 given to
the go-between, 10s. worth of stuff is “worked
in.” Several serious gaol disturbances have
had their origin in rivalry between prison
“post offices.”
:Jc * ❖ ❖
“Hayes Kop” : Is there any conservatism
like that of the gentlemen who draw up legal
instruments? I had a power of attorney
executed for me in Sydney transferring the
control of a hundred or two somewhat barren
acres in an English county from one person
to another. Reading the document I noted
contentedly that the shooting and fishing
rights were mentioned; after all, there are
generally a few partridges and some ground
game to be found on the property, and most
English brooks hold roach or dace that are
counted worth catching even if they are
hardly worth cooking. But when I found
that the sole rights of hawking (hunting
game with falcons) on the farm were also.
vested in the transferee, it struck me as
humorous, for falconry is almost an extinct
pastime anywhere in the U.K., and there
hardly exists even a tradition that it was
ever practised in my county. But the man
of law gravely explained that it was always
desirable to stick to precedent. I wonder
how many centuries old this particular pre-
cedent is. , . ...
“Wodgil”: H'ow is it that some of these
philanthropists get acres of space in the
newspapers while others, equally liberal, are
totally ignored? A while ago the London
correspondents went into raptures over the
generosity of a stranger who had gone to
the Royal Hospital at Holloway late at
night with a gift of £lOOO. His name and
address were extorted from him so that the
million might admire —he was Mr. McSome-
body, a property-oivner, from Perth (W.A.).
The other day a gentleman with an equally
fine sense of the picturesque walked “un-
heralded” into the Sydney Town Clerk’s office
and pressed a cheque for £lOOO and another
for £250 into the eminent Layton’s hand,
The thousand, he said, was for the St.
Andrew’s Cathedral Trust; the two-fifty for
five specified charities. Mr. McSomebody
again. With his genius for publicity, Mr.
Layton gave the story to the newspapers,
and Mr. McSomebody was promptly besieged
by reporters. One journal proudly announced
that its representative had traced the gentle-
man to “his special deck suite on the Or-
monde,” and, finding him a “limelight-hater,”
who “did not want to talk to the papers,”
had shouted across the gangway, “How many
thousands are you disposing of to-day?” My
mind goes back to the late Septimus Burt,
K.C., also of Perth. Wealthiest of West-
ralian lawyers, Burt gave most of his fortune
away, but, except for a church hall raised to
the memory of his dead soldier sons, the
public did not learn of his benefactions till he
was dead. He was Attorney-General in John
Forrest’s first Ministry, and Forrest on his
seventieth birthday told me that of all the
public men he had been associated with, Com-
monwealth and State, he placed Burt first.
jJj ❖ ❖
“Dingbat”: Old Brighton (Vie.) had at
least one house with a reputation for being
haunted —the elderly vicarage of St.
Andrew’s, which was demolished a year or
two ago. It was built on a part of the early
graveyard. Sooner than remove the remains
the vestry of that far day had the place
built over them, and it was presently alleged
by certain inmates of the dwelling (and very
sound church people they were, too) that
sights were seen and sounds heard that coiild
not have had any hut a supernatural origin.
Since the new vicarage has gone up, however,
the ghosts have either been laid, or are lying
low, for nothing more has been seen or
heard of them.
* * * *
“Bob P.” : A North Queensland P.M. has
set his brethren a good example. After con-
victing a whisky-watering publican he
ordered that a notice setting forth the nature
and date of the offence and the fine should
be suspended over the bar door for two
weeks.
* * * *
“Morlancourt”: There were blistering
references to “cold-footers” from both sides
of the Reps, during the shindy over prefer-
ence to soldiers, and the jingo editor of
London “National Review’’ writes: “Con-
sider the men who stayed in safety during
the war. Look at their haunted eyes.” As
one who scorns cant even more than cold-
footers, I submit that the possessors of
haunted eyes are not, as a rule, those who
stayed away from the war, but those who went.
Who are at the top of the tree in politics
(Nationalist, no less than Labor), medicine,
at the Bar and in business? With few excep-
tions discreet characters who did not fight.
The most conspicuous successes of all are
those who had safe staff jobs overseas, or,
better still, served in uniform at home.
Whatever the reason may be (and, ex-Digger
though I am, I do not believe it is preju-
dice), returned soldiers of the best and
bravest type have not done particularly well
as civilians. The very qualities which are
often found in the war-time shirker (a thick
hide, the will to live and shrewd determina-
tion to profit by the other man’s follies)
make the same man a success in peace.
Similarly the qualities that are most essen-
tial in a front-line soldier (self-sacrifice,
readiness to take big risks, the habit of doing
things instead of explaining eloquently how
they ought to be done) are of least value
in civilian life. How else account for the
number of brilliant ex-brigadiers who are
scratching for a living as civilians or defer-
ring humbly as politicians to younger men
who never fought?
THE MERRY MAYTIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Brother, meet the merry Maytime, English
poets’ chosen fete-time,
Theme for many a lightsome lyric in the
older, colder climes,
Though the talk on tram and ferry hardly
indicates there’s very
Much inducement to be merry in these
tense and straightened times.
Still, there’s little use to wail if you’ve out-
run the blinking bailiff
In the fashion of Australia, as our legis-
lators say.
Set your teeth and be a fighter! Though
your pockets feel the lighter
And your belt be drawn the tighter, ’tis
the merry month of May.
Brother of the pen—or derrick, high or
humble, lay or cleric,
Here’s the month that Robert Herrick
beatifically sings.
Though you go not Maying, haply you’re
an optimistic Tapley,
Skilful at extracting comfort from the
most depressing things.
In the days of stress and trial, stern
retrenchment, dour denial,
He who keeps a cheerful dial shows an
admirable trait.
One and all we needs must share it, what’s
ahead. So grin and bear it.
There are lots of non-essentials in the
merry month of May.
We have borrowed like the Devil. Now the
riot and the revel
Are unfortunately over and the reckoning
must be met.
Though the harried civil servant raise remon-
strance fierce and fervent,
Claiming that he’s singled out for more
to do and less to get,
Soon shall men of all conditions, starting
with the politicians,
Find perceptible attritions in their periodic
pay,
And, for an occurrence sequent, tiddleys may
be more infrequent
(Though I personally doubt it) in this
merry month of May.
Brother, younger one or older, get your pick
beneath the boulder
To be shifted, put your shoulder to the
metaphoric plough;
Shoes a-many will be pinching, but there’s
little use in flinching,
We were heading straight for Queer-street,
but we’re going to dodge it now.
Hark, when Winter comes to nip you, and
its icy winds to whip you,
There’s some comfort in recalling that it
isn’t here to stay,
And, however cold you find it, Spring will
not be far behind it—
That’s the thought to carry with you
through the merry month of May.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“D.”: The chain-smoker of gaspers is
much more likely to he a female than a male
nowadays. And here is an interesting side-
light on the phenomenon. You practically
never see a pretty, or even fairly good-looking,
girl who chain-smokes. I tested this theory—-
one that I have held for years—during a
week-end at a big Blue Mountains hotel,
which numbered amongst its patrons about
a dozen flappers. Three were conspicuously
good-looking, and none of them smoked at
all. Four were reasonably attractive, and
they smoked occasionally on painfully ama-
teurish lines. Their aim seemed to be to
impress their men-friends, and they always
jettisoned their cadged cigarettes at the first
opportunity. The remaining four or five
had the kind of faces that might stop trains,
but would certainly never launch ships; and
they were not rushed by the hotel sheiks.
They smoked during all their meals, and
stubbed the exiguous butts on their pla*tes;
they smoked in the passages and bathrooms,
and dropped the malodorous remains on the
floor; and they smoked furiously while miss-
ing shots at golf and tennis. There is
HE’D HAVE GIVEN A MAN A CHANCE.
ROMANTIC ONE (at picture-show oj ancient Egypt): "What would you have done
darling, if you had been Pharaoh?”
ARDENT WOOER: “Well, I’d have given the chariots somewhere to park.”
nothing in the anti-smoker’s argument that
excessive smoking makes girls plain. These
girls were born plain. Apparently over-
indulgence in nicotine acts as a substitute
for the joys of masculine companionship.
I have come across only one alluring female
in my life who chain-smoked, and she began
it after being turned down by a young man.
* *
“Milly Soak”: A party of alleged pros-
pectors that created wild hilarity in the
early days of the Westralian goldfields was
Cobbinson’s lot. Cobbinson had recruited
his dozen of youthful adventurers in Eng-
land, and received premiums with a*ll of
them on undertaking to teach them how to
find gold in a new country. Some of his band
might have been willing enough learners,
others were just rackety youths whom their
parents wanted to remove from London
temptations, liquid ones especially. All of
them were saturated with public-school tradi-
tions and vague ideas that Australia was a
country largely populated by hostile canni-
bals. The quaint crowd went up from Gerald-
ton to Cue in 1894, and amazed the team-
sters along the track by pitching a camp
every night around which they kept guard
by shifts armed with swords and revolvers.
They traversed some 200 miles of dusty
country without any casualties worth speak-
ing of and with their discipline compara-
tively unbroken, but after that the bush
shanties and the newly-licensed pubs of
Cue proved their undoing. Most of them
were understood to have straggled back to
England, home and beauty somehow, but
two or three were never satisfactorily
accounted for. Cobbinson stayed; he got a
job as a mine manager.
* # * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: There was a fearful
rampage at Racketty Mansions the other
day; and it ended in the belongings of Mr.
and Mrs. Blank being piled out on the porch.
The owners presently collected it and drove
off in a taxi defiant but in disgrace, judging
by the attitude of other tenants who watched
their departure from windows and balconies.
The proceedings interested and puzzled me,
since my visits to Racketty Mansions had
given me the impression that the Blanks
were the quietest people in the place. Two
drinks persuaded the caretaker to talk.
“We’U ’ave some peace and quietness now
they’re gone,” he said. “No, they didn’t ’ave
late parties—we don’t mind them. It was
the airs the woman put on! The ladies
simply ’ated ’er. But, after all, it was ’is
fault. Like ’is blessed cheek bringin’ a
woman like that into the Mansions !” “She
wasn’t really his wife?” I suggested, a bit
surprised at his primness. “Wrong,” he
replied ; “she ivas.”
* =S * sis
“Pip Tok”: The mechanisation of the
army js sounding the death-knell of cherished
traditions. According to a recent Army
Order, riders and drivers of motor vehicles
are not to “pay compliments” when the
caravans are in motion. When push-bike
patrols were in fashion cyclists’ efforts to
salute in the regulation manner caused so
many accidents that commanding officers
vetoed the practice long before it was abol-
ished officially. Brass-hats raved and swore
that the service was going to the dogs, but
the commanding officei’s had their way. It
looks as if saluting will disappear entirely
from the mechanised army of the future.
* * * *
“Parvian”: The new Bristol Bulldog
’plane is the nearest approach to a rocket
the aeroplane designers have turned out. Its
Jupiter engine takes it skywards at the rate
of 1320 feet a minute; it could start from
sea-level and overtop Kosciusko in six
minutes. At the trial spins at Point Cook
(Yic.) Flight-Lieut. Scherger drove towards
the press cameras at 170 m.p.h., and then
clawed up aloft at an angle so steep that
nervous Onlookers prepared themselves for a
crash. A minute later, when three miles
away, he dived at 270 m.p.h., and climbed
again for all he was worth, cutting a sharper
aerial V than the spectators had ever before
seen. The Bulldog is an all-metal single-
seater, armed with two Vickers guns, and
distinguishable from Moths and Seagulls by
the seemingly disproportionate length of the
upper wings. The R.A.A.F. has adopted it
as the standard one-man stoush machine,
and has bought eight.
* * * *
“Port Gregory”: In returning to England
by the leisurely Singapore route, the De
Chairs, late of N. S. Wales, followed a pre-
cedent set by Admiral Bedford, of Westralia
(affectionately known as “Bos’n Bill”) in
1908; but they hadn’t nearly so uproarious
a send-off. Bedford’s last port-of-call was
Broome, where, as luck would have it, the
pearlers had just finished an exceedingly
prosperous season. He was the first repre-
sentative of royalty who had ever looked
in at that outpost of Empire, and Broome,
flushed with boodle and loyalty, determined
to make the occasion a memorable one. There
was a banquet, of course, and the way the
liquor flowed, and the loyal enthusiasm with
which presents of mother o’ pearl and other
local mementoes were pressed on the depart-
ing guests, still furnish material for reminis-
cence at Roebuck Bay. No Governor who
had been a sailor could have selected a better
WHAT SOME PEOPLE WOULD CALL AN OVERDRAFT.
ANNA: “Lucky girl getting that trip to Italy. Of course you loved, Venice?”
SUSANNAH: “Absolutely divine. I lay in a gondola one night on the Grand Canal
and just drank it all in.”
jumping-off place than one where nearly
everyone went down to the sea in luggers
and conventions were tempered by tropical
conditions.
* * * *
“Umgeni” ; The Zulu standard of morality,
once famous all over South Africa, is slip-
ping. A report from Natal shows that one
of the chiefs empowered by the Government
to adjudicate on such matters has fined 50
of his fellows for allowing their daughters
to cohabit with their suitors before marriage.
Under ’T Chaka’s code no Zulu could marry
until he had “washed his spear in blood.”
The virgins of the tribes were also dras-
tically compelled to virtue. Punishment for
infringement was swift and horrible. The
erring lovers were pegged out side by side
on an anthill.
* * * *
“Mulgo”: Wingham, on the Manning
River (N.S.W.), was pioneered by sturdy
self-helpers who even built their own ships
to take their timber and farm produce to
Sydney; and they have been left very much
to their own resources
ever since. For a long
time past the residents
have been asking for a
decent Government school,
many of the children hav-
ing to be accommodated
in rented rooms in the
School of Arts. The
municipal council offered
a block of land —and
word came from Sydney
that the new seminary
had been approved of;
also that it would be
elevated to the status of
a District Rural School. After the customary
delay two huts arrived by truck, and were
dumped on the ground where the people had
seen visions of a noble edifice. They were
the new school!
v •!>
“Hoi”: Strange types foregather on the
high seas. The middle-aged man who joined
our boat at Colon had travelled up the west
coast of South America. He spoke English
like a Cornishman, but he told me he had
never been in England—had never even
spoken to English people before. “Then
where do you come from?” I asked. “From
the Falkland Islands,” he said. His objec-
tive was Westralia, where he planned to
turn farmer. His son, a shy youth, had
been born in Chile, and had had to serve two
years with the Chilian Army. From what I
could hear of the treatment of conscripts in
that part of the world, the lot of the Aus-
tralian boy-soldier, over which pacifists have
shed so many tears, was a picnic by com-
parison. I think these people will like Aus-
tralia.
$ * Hjt sj:
“Sixenate”: A claimant to portion of a
dead man’s property told the Court by affi-
davit that, although he had been known for
29 years as Jack Snow, he was really Fred-
erick Small; he had acquired the other name
when navvying. The ganger who first en-
gaged him called him “Snow” because of the
color of his hair, and, having heard some-
body else hail him ns “Jack,” put him down
as Jack Snow. The name stuck, partly be-
cause, in seeking work with other gangs, it
was convenient to refer to his previous em-
ployment. Navvy camps have added whole
pages of new cognomens to the directory.
Now and then place names will become sur-
names ; “Bill, the bloke from
figures on paysheets as “William Bourke,
and “Ted, that Singleton cove,” is converted
into Edward Singleton. A toil-hardened
pick-and-shovel artist, introduced as Joe
Nipper, confided to me that his real name
was Cavendish de Lisle. “A name like that
wouldn't do any good in a navvies’ camp,”
he said ; so he had become “Joe the Nipper.”
* sH * *
“Kripple” : My broken back has brought, me
a little fun since it stretched me out in
Brisbane. To pass the time my entry went
in for one of those broadcast competitions.
A prize was won. With the cheque came a
note from the manager of the concern:
“Regarding your effort, please take a run
in to see me.” My legs hadn’t moved for
four years.
* * # *
“Tee Essbie” : The other evening I heard
the Salv’army singing one of its moral ditties
to the tune of “God Save the King,” a new
use for a dirge that has had a dickens of a
lot of service. As a national anthem it is
or has been used by Britain, Russia, Ger-
many, Saxony, Denmark, Switzerland and
America. In 1790 Prussia adapted the air
to words by Pastor Heinrich Harries, and his
hymn, “Hell dir im Siegerkranz” is still the
ceremonial anthem of Germany. Saxony
also used the tune to the words “Gott segnc
Sachsenland,” written by Siegfried Wahl-
mann. Russia used it’ until 1833, when
Alexis Lvoff’s composition was substituted ;
what they use now the Lord knows. In
1832 “God Save” found a home in the United
States, where it is wedded to Sam Smith’s
doggerel lines, commencing “My country, ’tis
of thee, sweet land of liberty.”
* * * *
“Bluecoat”: These are sad times for the
gentlemen who of recent years have been re-
sponsible for many expensive additions to
Melbourne public schools. Scotch shifted from
East Melbourne to much larger quarters up
the Yarra. Wesley and Grammar are both far
more palatially appointed than they used to
be. Brighton Grammar went the whole hog
with a complete new building, to which an
extra wing has just been added. And now,
what with one thing and another, the class
which produces college lads in the greatest
numbers is feeling the pinch so sharply that
in many cases Willie has to leave and go
to work, or not even start on his Head-of-
the-River career. Geelong Grammar, more-
over, has just completed a £20,000 dining-
hall in which to feed its resident pupils,
largely the rising hopes of the Western Dis-
trict squattocracy. Twenty thousand pounds
for a refectory to serve schoolboys, and the
price of w T ool so low that Egbert and Perci-
val may have to stay at home and pick up
crumbs of knowledge from a tutor, or even
from a governess!
* * * *
“C.H.8.”: I can match the case of the
Katoomba lass who eats only bread, butter
and cheese (B. 30/4/’3O). A Melbourne girl
wdio has been working with me as a house-
maid for over three years has had for daily
ration during that period three cups of
coffee and one slice of wheatmeal bread, the
bread being dried in the oven and eaten with
jam or marmalade. Once, just for variety,
she substituted the juice of an orange for
the slice of bread, and kept to this diet for
five weeks’ She is in her early twenties, and
her weight keeps steady at 84 stone.
TOUJOURS LA POLITESSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“French traffic authorities on the Riviera employ
signs very different from the brief commands seen
on our roads. The road from Nice to Monte Carlo
has now been adorned at dangerous points with
signs saying ‘Please drive nicely.’ ” — “Argus.”
It was a Melbourne traffic cop
That stood with lifted hand
And called upon the world to stop
Or start at his command.
Wave after wave from every side
Assaulted him with hoot
Of angry horns; he stayed the tide
At will, this cop-Canute.
Then nigher suddenly and nigher
A car came on in pride,
Till, hesitating to backfire,
Midway the engine died.
Then spake the mighty traffic cop
Through silence still as death,
And “Bad luck, sir,” he said, “to stop
Just there.” Men held their breath.
“Don’t worry, sir! I’ll set you right,”
He murmured. “Don’t disturb
Yourself at all, but just sit tight;
I’ll push you to the kerb.
“No, no, sir! Don’t apologise,
These accidents will come—
‘Twould be a strange world otherwise.”
The waiting crowd was dumb.
Then back, in majesty installed,
Upon the points he stood.
“The east-west traffic now,” he called,
“If you will be so good.”
But none there moved; each nerveless hand
Had fallen from its wheel;
They gaped like those who understand
No word, whose senses reel.
Then spake again that traffic cop,
And, lo! his neck was red;
And “Hop, you flaming loafers! Hop,
You crawling crabs!” he said.
“You blanky motoring misfits!
What’s keeping you?” lie fumed.
“Gome on, you creeping quarter-wits!”....
And traffic was resumed.
N.S.W.
HASEEN.


$
■vv
w
t)
1
%
ftr
v
>
As?
HUMPTV DUMPTV
SAT ON A WALL,
m
v-'
|C^
Or
to
4+tl
m
J 3
%?
TO MEND HIM BEAT ALL
the King’s horses and men
Humpty Dumpty
AO
b
HAD A GREAT FALL
fifFf,
iTS '//
; <1 /\
<1
2
L/
□
5o they’ll, just have tg work
FOR THEIR LIVING AGAIN.
SHADOW SHOWS.
The
STATE
THEATRES
SYDNEY ANOMELBOURNE
“Street of Chance,” the new Paramount
all-talkie at Sydney State Theatre, gives
William Powell the best part of his career.
He has all the idiosyncrasies of appearance,
manner and voice proper to a New York
gambler who, while mercilessly ready to bump
off those who try to show him points, has
a warm spot in his heart for members of his
family. He is called on to speak only one
jarring line. When caught palming an ace,
with the creditable object of choking his
young brother off gambling, he claims that it
is the first time he has cheated. Every card-
player knows that a man has to be a crook
to make big money out of cards. Also,
“Natural” plays for high stakes against fel-
low desperadoes; and another thing that
every card-player knows is that practitioners
in his line do serious business only with
affluent strangers.
Apart from these discrepancies the play
pulses with life—under-world life. When it
opens, the w r ife of John B. Marsden, broker
(o t h e rwise
“N atur a 1”
Davis, gam-
bler), is about
to leave him.
She is sick of
being married
to one who
comes home in
the small
hours of tin;
morning and
has every
prospect on e
morning o f
not coming
home at all.
He is ready to
drop gambling
for her sake.
And tlum bis
young brother,
w h o knows
him only as
a pillar of
commerce,
arrives from in
the far west
KAY FRANCIS
“The Street of Chance
with a newly-wedded wife. The drama of the
situation is that the boy is a gambler,
too. He has come to New York to
play up some money he has won at home.
“Natural’s” first idea is to have him cleaned
out by the pros, from whom he has won
money. Unfortunately, mug’s luck inter-
venes, and it is the pros, who are cleaned
out. So the estimable Mr. Marsden reveals
himself as none other than the notorious
“Natural,” joins in the game, and is de-
tected in a remarkably crude bit of cheating.
The disillusioned brother rushes home, cured
of the poker habit for life, and “Natural”
gets bumped off by his friends, who reject his
story that he cheated for family reasons.
The outstanding merits of this combined
morality play and thriller are its restrained
acting and skilled casting. The reason why
Hollywood is ahead of the world as a pro-
vider of crook plays (and likely to stay
there) is that it has a limitless supply of
gangster-types who look and speak their
parts to the life. It eliminates make-up,
which did so much to kill illusion in the
legitimate drama. Over-acting is departing
with over-emphasis in other directions.
“Natural’s” death in the speeding ambulance
is a masterpiece of adramatism. He dies like
a man-—a far more moving spectacle than
if he had done it like an actor.
* # *
In “Behind the Make-up” (Paramount),
at Melbourne State Theatre, William Powell
is a Continental buffoon who has aspirations
for higher things. He is assisted in his act
by Hal Skelly, a simple clown who is satis-
fied with clowning. While they work to-
gether the instability of the one is balanced
by the solidity of the other and they become
the rage of New York. When they part,
both fail egregiously. Hal Skelly loves
Fay Wray, a lass from a refreshment-room,
but the unsophisticated creature is dazzled
by the charm of his brilliant companion and
marries him. He turns out to be the usual
great lover and an unhappy union is dis-
solved when he suicides by drowning. The
remaining member of the troupe then dis-
plays a somewhat incredible nobility by
shouldering the blame for his friend’s extra-
marital adventures. But the eyes of true
love are not to be deceived and audiences
are sent home with the comforting feeling
that the cloud of tragedy may prove to have
a silver lining. “Behind the Make-up” is
another back-stage story and “back-stage”
has a horrible significance for this paper.
The present issue is, however, an exception.
It has a plausible plot, noise and vulgarity
are replaced by more or less sound psych-
ology, and the photography is excellent.
¥ * *
The most meaningless thing about “Lord
Byron of Broadway” at Sydney Regent
is the title. This Metro-Goldwyn con-
ception of the poet-peer’s alter ego is
a struggling song-plugger when first
encountered. His name is Roy; he has a nar-
row brow, a heavy jowl and an overworked
grin; and, for some reason which doesn’t
appear, the girls are mad about him. Par-
ticularly one in a music-shop who helps him
to plug, and, as a wide, irrelevant grinner,
beats him by several teeth. Roy joins Joe,
a song-and-dance practitioner. (Or the name
may have been Jim. The writer’s programme
was a week old.) They do one of those
acts which every vaudeville addict has
yawned through—duets by stage dudes who
manipulate walking-sticks and wear identical
dinner-suits and straw hats. Nancy, the
assistant-plugger mentioned above, plays the
piano for them. Complications ensue as
Roy rises in the world. By the time he has
achieved ft mansion and valet that would
do credit to. a
royal duke,
the ladies are
wearing out
telephones to
get at him.
One member
of the com-
pany a so-
prano with
an establish-
ment as lavish
as his , own —
wants to
marry him.
Uoe (? Jim)
intervenes at
this stage.
The soprano
is his wife,
discarded
seven years
previously be-
cause of her
sinful ways.
And now hon-
est old Joe
MARION SHILLING in
“Lord Byron of Broadway.”
(or Jim) gets
killed in a motor accident. Roy is
about to commemorate the event by a
song when Nancy rushes in and urges him
to desist. In some dim way she seems to
realise that a tribute to the memory of a
departed friend which might be honorable
in the medium of the original Byron would
amount to a desecration in that of a song-
plugger. Roy sees the point, is thrown over
by the soprano and goes broke. Then comes
another inspiration. The Power of Luv.
He plugs a best-seller on the subject, and
Nancy and he are united.
Charles Kaley (Roy) and Marion Shil-
ling (Nancy) have youth and little else.
Ethelind Terry over-vamps as the seductive
soprano, and Benny Pulin is an exaggeratedly
Semitic Hebrew. Cliff Edwards, who plays
Joe, alone exhibits the naturalism which the
world has learned to look for in the better
type of talkie-actor. The continuity of this
picture is interrupted by an original line
in technicolor ballets.
The item which gets the applause at the
Regent is staged by some champion axemen
who appeared at the last Sydney Show.
Their act is splendidly produced, and it is
a fine entertainment both on the comedy
side and when the men are exhibiting their
immense biceps and remarkable skill in com-
petition with one another. The turn would
make big money in England and the U.S.A.
* * *
Sydney Capitol is giving a lot for the
money this week. The star item is First
National’s “Footlights and Fools,” with Col-
leen Moore as Fifi d’Auray. Colleen’s inter-
pretations never vary. Once more she is
wistful and shrinking, though gay and brave,
as a working-girl; and once more she is
triumphantly beautiful and over-dressed, yet
modest and lovable withal, when Fame
strings her name in letters of light across
Broadway. The only material difference is
that she makes Irish eyes in an unnatural
yellow wig and an equally unnatural French
accent.
An odd feature of this rigidly conven-
tional film is an attempt on the part of
the manufacturers to give it a psychological
twist. Fifi blinks approvingly at .Timmy
Willet (played by Raymond Hackett) and
there appears to be every likelihood that the
final close-up will reveal them locked mouth
to mouth. Not so, however. As time goes
on Fifi, amiable to the point of imbecility
though she is, recoils in disgust from his
weaknesses, and she ends by ordering him
off the emotional premises.
This touch of novelty is counterbalanced
by the ghastly sameness of the technicolor
ballets. The training of these shadow forma-
tions is amazingly complete. Nothing like
it was ever seen on the legitimate stage.
They make British Guards regiments look
slovenly by comparison. With indefatigable,
precision the kaleidoscope bodies and faceless
heads move to and fro, round and round, and
the effect, in the case of spectators who have
seen it done before, is utter boredom. If
there were true beauty in these pageants
it would be different, but there isn’t. They
represent no more than the spirit of gran-
diosity and a profiteerish zest for wasting
colossal sums of money.
**:!:#
“The Great Divide,” which precedes
the above at the Capitol, has a less
hackneyed plot, and features a favorite
with a very different appeal in Dorothy
Maqk ail. Dorothy, on this occasion, is
Ruth Jordan, the cocktail-swiping, sen-
sation-seeking daughter of a financial
magnate. The Mackail has developed a cyni-
cal sophistication of manner which enables
her to play these parts to the satisfaction of
film patrons, who expect American society
girls to behave and enunciate as if they had
graduated from a maison toldrv.
Miss Jordan goes by train to the far west
on her parent’s Pullman car with cocktail
bar complete, and meets a tenor who pre-
tends to be a Mexican. After he has sung a
love song in a bar and given her a sound
kissing in the moonlight, she learns from
the sinuous, jealousy-ravaged Manuella that
he is a squaw-man. Accused of it publicly
in a most viragoish manner, he drops talk-
ing broken Mexican, addresses a few terse
remarks to the heiress in an English accent,
and subsequently throws her across his
saddle and gallops off into the mountains —
no mean feat of strength in view of her
weight. He wins her love on Petruchio-like
lines, and then turns out to be her father’s
partner. He has abducted her for her own
moral good.
An absurd yarn, but it is beautifully photo-
graphed, and has many stirring situations.
lan Keith portrays the super-man who
weans his friend’s offspring from facile love
affairs and alcoholism. He is tall and hand-
some, and has an agreeable voice.
The Capitol’s Australian National Orches-
tra in Wagner’s “Rienzi” created something
like a riot of approval at the session which
this critic attended.


When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike.
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
an i
Br ‘ik( m
Tariff
if desired
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
ft
H O T E
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Ushcrotel.” Svdnev
41 ->
&
"f /J 1
7/ A
/
5
.. New Zealand's
Daintiest Delicacy..
Tiny inch-long fish, unique
in flavour .. , found only
in New Zealand’s sparkling
streams, and then for but
three months of the year,
WHITEBAIT is a delicacy
beyond compare. Served
from the can, or fried in
batter, you are sure to
*rave’ about WHITEBAIT
as do New Zealanders—
who send us these delicately
flavoured, tiny fish straight
from their streams ... in
cans that bear the label
“St. George.”
mmm
Irvine & Stevenson’s St. George Co. Ltd.
Dunedin, New 2ealand.
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Bath9
13
m
SaJHhi
■
I'!
- •,
13
■
1.3
11
’ 31
Si U :
ml!
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
TARIFF —PER DAY, Room and Meals, 25/-
Room and Breakfast, 15/-
Melbourne Telephone : F4141.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Assuming Chief Justice Isaacs is appointed
Governor-General, Justice Rich should suc-
ceed him. Rich is 12 years younger than
Gavan Duffy, though both went to the High
Court in the same year. He is a first-class
lawyer and a personality. Since 1913 he
has sat in more single-Judge cases than any
other member of his court, has referred none
to the Full Court, and has had none reversed.
Il'is other assets are courteous manners, an
unbiased political outlook, and a tempera-
ment which enabled him to successfully handle
an ugly situation in the recent coal case, after
the retirement from it of ex-Chief Justice
Knox. His father was Canon Rich, of St.
Andrew’s Cathedral.
First officer
of Britain’s big
dirigible
RlOO is G. F.
Meagher, an air-
man who, after
winning the Air
Fore e Cross
and the Italian
Order of the
Crown and
Croce di Guerre
for his exploits
with diri-
gibles in
rhe Great
War, mig-
rated to
M a o r i 1 and.
There he got a
job trundling
cases about in
a n Auckland
fruit store and
stuck it out for
a year or two
till the City
Council mau <■
him a traffic
inspector. Then
he heard there
were jobs for
ai r mechanics
going at Card-
rington in Eng-
land, where
RlOO was build-
ing, and re-
turned to
Blighty. He
CHARLIE RUTT, lead-
ing Adelaide architect, and
president of the Y.M.C.A.
gave. such valuable service that when com-
missions were allotted there was no doubt
about his claim to an appointment.
Son piloted father through Port Phillip
heads the other day when Captain W. T
Taley brought the St. Albans into port for
*7? tlmo - -The old skipper is retiring
after 60 years of seafaring. He began them
in sailing-ships, was master of the old
Howard Smith liner Time, and for the last
five years has been navigating Chinese-owned
steamers through the pirate-infested waters
ot the Yang-tse.
Passed out at 68, Alexander Mc-Nab,
Queensland’s oldest practising solicitor. Born
in Brisbane he was educated at the Grammar
School, his sons and grandsons following-
in due course. Beginning as Chambers,
Bruce and McNab, his firm grew with the
State, though its title was altered as time
went on. He was a mighty bowler in his
day, being one of the founders of the game
in Queensland, and a widely popular club-
man.
J. T. Beckett,
managing director
of the Tanami G.
M. Co., is a Vic-
torian who has
alternated mining
with journalism
most of his life
and beaten tracks
with almost un-
trodden ones. In
his young days he
was one of the
goldseekers who
battled their way
down south from
the Kimberleys
(W.A.), finding
new fields as they
went. Beckett
never got as far
as Coolgardie and
Ka 1 goorlie; he
stayed at Magnet
on the Murchison
and ran a typical
goldfields news-
paper for several
years. He re-
turned east to be-
come a rounds-
man on the Mel-
bourne daily press.
It was -a change
from prospecting,
but there was an
even greater
change ahead,
Beckett’s next job
being that of Pro-
tector of Abo-
rigines in the
Northern Terri-
tory during the
Federal regime of
Andy Fisher. Few
men have a wider
knowledge of Aus-
tralia, from its
cities to its utter-
most ends.
H. S. GULLETT,
Deputy-Leader of the
Federal Opposition, and
one of the A.I.F. histor-
ians, who led the attack
against the Government’s
withdrawal of soldier
preference.
A mighty builder of bridges and a sort of
hereditary civil servant was Percy Allan.
His father was principal Under-Secretary
of N.S.W.; his grandfather the David Allan
who was Deputy Commissary-General from
1818 to 1823. Percy entered the Works
Department as a cadet, and became chief
draftsman at the time when the roads-and-
bridges politician was at his zenith. In
those years he designed hundreds of bridges;
the Pyrmont and Glebe Island structures
were amongst them. As supervising engineer
he was responsible for the completion of
Sydney’s low-level sewerage system. Allan
retired two years before his death last week.
Defence Minister Green hit below the belt
when, in the squalid debate on soldier prefer-
ence in Canberra, he sneered at Col. Tom
White, “You threw’ your hands up to the
Turks.” In the first months of the war
White volunteered with another to cut the
telegraph line running out of Bagdad. They
landed alongside a main road, and the
observer jumped out and did the job. In
wheeling into position for a get-away White
smashed a wing against a telegraph-post
and simultaneously the landscape proceeded
to spawn armed Arabs. Under a hot fire
White started imperturbably to refill the
petrol-tank and free the ’plane from
entangling wires. He then climbed back into
the machine and opened fire on the enemy.
He and his mate certainly raised their hands,
but it w r as to ward off the clubbed rifles of
the Arabs, who were only prevented from
murdering them by a Turkish officer. White’s
own account of the incident may be found
in his “Guests of the Unspeakable.”
Brig.-Genera] McGlinn, who dropped out
of his old job on the Commonwealth Public
Service Commission last w T eek, had completed
47 years as a civil servant. He went off
to tbe argument with Oom Paul in 1900, and
was one of the First Division which left
Australia in 1914. He was on Gallipoli,
and in France he got his brigade. There
has been much argument as to whether
McGlinn or “Bull” Ryrie is the heaviest
brass-hat in captivity, but opinion favors
the infantryman.
E. T. Bell, M.L.A. for Fassifern in the
Queensland Parliament, who died recently
in Brisbane at 50, came of a pastoral family
long identified with the Upper Brisbane
River cattle country. He w’ent from Too-
woomba Grammar School to the family head-
quarters at Coochin Coochin, arid afterwards
managed Combargno station in the Roma
district. He entered Parliament at a by-
election in 1913.
Alexander Thomson, a pertinacious Scot,
was the politician whom Fate singled out for
her hardest knock at the Westralian elections.
Thomson had held Katanning, a safe Cocky
seat, for 16 years and had been leader of
the party since 1923. His return would
have ensured for him second place in the
present Cabinet. But there was some fric-
tion over the pre-selection business, and the
poll found Thomson some hundreds of votes
behind an Independent C.P. man of a family
which has always exercised a lot of political
influence in the district, one of the Piesses.
The reference books are singularly barren
of personal details about the new Poet Lau-
reate, John Masefield, although they give a
full list of his achievements as poet, prose-
writer imd playwright. His age is 54, but
there is no mention of his birthplace; it is
generally accepted that he ran away to sea
in his boyhood and served before the mast,
and that his experiences in America in-
cluded a spell of bar-tending, a quaint occu-
pation for one destined to wear the poet’s
bays and one that differentiates him from
all his predecessors. To Australians he is
perhaps best known as the author of “Gal-
lipoli,” with its generous tribute to the
Anzacs. He has also edited “The Voyages of
Captain William Dampier.” His earlier sea
ballads, which first brought him into literary
notice, had a 'vogue and popularity all their
own.
“Jearnes”;—
The Duchess of Bedford, who at 65 has just
established a record by ’planing- from London to
Capetown and back in 19A flying- days, is probably
the most energetic woman of her age on earth.
She was a Red Cross worker all through the war,
and many Diggers met her in that capacity. She
has helped the inmates of every women’s gaol in
England. British criminals love her, and she even
got a favorable mention in the recent ly-puDlished
autobiography of Chicago May, who loathed the
English. As a parson’s daughter she has been a
church worker all her life, and she brought up her
eldest son to be a Y.M.C.A. official. She speaks
four languages, has written many articles on radio-
graphy (of which she was a pioneer) and bird life,
(she is an eminent naturalist) and she is a first-
class game shot and fly-fisherwoman. She owns the
machine in which she made her last flight, and
does her share of the piloting whenever she flies.
E. S. Cunningham, a former editor of the
“Argus,” was a visitor to Vic. Assembly
press gallery on a recent evening; as long
ago as the ’eighties he was chief of the
paper’s reporting staff and used to write
the Parliamentary summary, and an excel-
lent column he made of it. It may have
been out of compliment to the veteran
journalist that the two oldest-timers were
turned on. Peacock (41 years uninter-
rupted service) congratulated ex-Premier
Prendergast (member since 1894 with one
break) on his 76th birthday, and Prendy had
a word or two to say in reply. Cunningham
could have commented, “I was here before
either of you.”
JOHN AMADIO, the
world’s greatest flautist,
Australian-born; he arrived
from Europe with his wife,
Florence Austral, last week.
Launceston has some vet-
erans in the commercial
world who bear the burden
of years well. Among
those who may be seen almost
daily about the city are William Sidebottom,
bark merchant (one of the Tasmanian team
which played the visiting English XI in
1863 and cx-M.H.A.), 95; Richard Green,
general merchant, 96; and James Walden,
leather and skin merchant (as shrewd as
ever in valuing a pelt), 99 next month.
Queensland has given elbow-room to a
good many men with large vision, but very
few of them had George Russell Mayers’s
tremendous energy to boot. As a youngster
he reached the northern State from Reading
(Eng.), was soon a prosperous merchant at
Cairns and then took a hand in sugar. It or
years he was chairman of the Mulgrave
mill—in many respects the most successful
of all the old State-aided Central mills—-
then opened up the Russell River district
ana plugged away till the Babinda mill was
accomplished. With half a dozen energetic
sons to settle, he then turned to British
East Africa as likely country.. After a
careful survey he secured a large area and
started on the development of the Victoria
Nyanza Sugar and East Africa Coffee cos.
lie invited Australian friends in, and the
results from the sugar estates have been
excellent; the coffee business has not had
time to talk yet. Fqr two years past _ Mr.
Mayers’s health has been very precarious,
and almost the whole of the period has been
devoted to making the most complete arrange-
ments for the uninterrupted development ot
the properties. He died while on the way
to London and Harley-street.
The Vic. Art-
ist s’ Society,
which is at pre-
sent holding its
annual show,
has a national
institution in C.
Douglas Rich-
ardson, its pre-
sident. A sculp-
tor, a painter
and nearly an
octogenarian, he
arrived in Mel-
bourne in 1858,
returning t o
England in
1888 to study
at the Royal
Academy. Aus-
tralia is pretty
liberally pep-
pered with his
memorial
g r o u p s, war
memorials and
portrait busts,
one of the best
known being the
Gold Jubilee
statue at Ben-
digo. Hal Cye
drew the vet-
eran on one of
the rare occa-
sions he has
been seen in
public without
h i s tasselled
smoking-cap.
C. DOUGLAS
RICHARDSON,
president of the Vic.
Artists’ Society, at
present holding its
annual exhibition.
Captain Hinsch, who arrived in Melbourne
the other day in command of the N. D. L.
Lippe, was chief officer of the Hessen, which
was one of the Australia’s first captures in
the war. Europe was wrapped in peace when
she sailed direct for Melbourne. She spoke
Cape Verde, Cape of Good Hope and several
Australian stations without getting any
reply. This silence puzzled her, but all was
made clear when she dropped anchor at Port-
sea in Port Phillip Bay and a naval officer
came aboard. Crew and officers were in-
terned at Berrima (N.S.W.), and Captain
Hinsch made so many friends there that he
proposes to revisit it.
A. L. Nathan', one of the younger members
of the family whose fortunes were made by
Glaxo, got a convincing demonstration of the
value of the radiophone to England. His
father is one of the six sons of grandpa
Nathan, the late founder of the business, and
is living in retirement at Eastbourne, Eng-
land. The son has been corresponding with
him for months relative to his desire to
exchange office life for a farming venture
and the cable companies have benefited
largely without either understanding the
other’s viewpoint. Then Nathan, jun.. thought
of the trans-oceanic ’phone. The Melbourne
P.O. got in touch with his father at 4.20,
the call was put through at 4.45 and three
minutes later the son had hung up the re-
ceiver and saved himself a trip to England.
Keane, M.II.R. for Bendigo, the new pre-
sident of Vic. division of the A.L.P., was
in the accounts branch of the railways before
he became gen. sec. of the A.R.U. _ Arthur
Cal well, senior vice-president, is a Vic. Trea-
sury officer and president of the Australian
Public Servants’ Association in Melbourne.
He is a keen politician, and is tipped as the
probable successor of Dr. Maloney for the
Melbourne seat when the veteran retires
from public life. Bob Ross, the other vice-
president, is one of the Labor intellectuals,
who long ago introduced himself to' Bulle-
tin readers on the Red Page.
Time was when the Speck’s Leg. Council
was known a*s the House of Rich Old
Landlords, but few of the present IS are
either old or rich. Five are mere lads of
40 or less, as many more are in the early
50’s and three at most are over 70. Four
are lawyers, two are or have been merchants,
five are farmers, three orcliardists and two
graziers; a builder and a miner complete
the tally. One saw war service and another
was a Rhodes Scholar.
ALWAYS THE SAME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The study of mankind,” he said, “I’ve
always made my biz.
I’ve mixed with almost ev’ry trade and call-
ing that thei’e is,
From squatters down to bottle-olis, from
walkers in the shops
To hoarsely-shouting Ikey Mos, from clergy-
men to cops.
“I’ve elbow’s rubbed (and crooked them, too)
with managers of banks
As well as lumpers from the ’Loo and birds
on taxi ranks.
I’ve fraternised with mates on ships and
mining engineers,
With Greeks who sell you fish and chips and
Bungs who sell you beers.
“And of this point I’m well apprised: What-
ever guild you strike,
Its members won’t be standardised or pat-
terned all alike.
Few are invariably nice and some don’t care
a curse
If what they say is cutting ice W’ith you
or the reverse.
“Just one exception have 7 met, one special
sort of man,
Who yearns your w’arrn regard to get and
help you all he can.
Although he knows not who on earth you
are, you can’t but note
He rates you at your proper worth —the chap
who wants your vote.”
N.S.W.
MIDFORO.


...A
-s
A
\ :
M
3arn
1%
iW
Genius that moulds the age often lacks
contemporary appreciation.
The acquisition for Britain of the control of the Suez Canal
—the strategic coup of Disraeli, a British Prime Minister of
the last century—has been fraught with tremendous conse-
quences in Empire development and world communication.
The control of the Suez Canal provided a main artery for
the British Empire—definitely joining the new world and
the old.
The holding of the controlling interest in A.W.A. by the
Commonwealth Government has resulted in the establish-
ment of a national wireless organisation, which is rapidly
developing a network of wireless communication in the
Southern Pacific. As a result of A.W.A.’s activities, the
British Empire is linked with the world’s efficient wireless
network. The Beam Wireless Service links Australia direct
with the heart of the Empire and, since its inauguration, has
saved this country over half a million sterling.
A.W.A. designed and' built the, principal Australian broad-
casting stations; established a chain of Australian-built
wireless stations in the South Pacific Ocean; pioneered the
Australian Marine Wireless Services and brought the Coastal
Radio Services up to date; and to-day at its modern Radio-
Electric Works is manufacturing every type of wireless
equipment for use on land, at sea and in the air
The A.W.A. world-range broadcasting station 2ME
pioneered British inter-Empire broadcasting and is constantly
and favorably advertising Australia to millions of listeners
in Europe, Asia, Africa and America.
Wireless Telephony, the practical application of the greatest
experiment the world has ever known, was pioneered in
Australia by A.W.A. To the credit of this Company are
the design and manufacture of the powerful telephonic
apparatus which is being used in the Radiophone Service
to Great Britain.
Further evidence of the development of A.W.A. is the
employment of over a thousand Australians in all branches
of Wireless work. A.W.A. believes sincerely in Australia,
and Australia has shown its appreciation of A.W.A.’s
products and communcation systems.
History pays tribute to Disraeli’s genius. To have speeded
communication by days was a feat well accomplished. To
have made communication between Australia and Britain
possible in a few seconds is an achievement of A.W.A., and
one the world is proud to acknowledge.
*** Wireless
u/IRELEs
LA u strafas iaj -/'fcf.
<§>
4
>}
:
m


mmm
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors; Messrs. EDMUND 8. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD,
J. R. KIRK, Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
' the Asnociation and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) in the event of loss of. eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately,
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost evciy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
GEO. P.RUCE SMITH, General Manasrer
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “A Country Girl”
Criterion “White Cargo
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Katinka”
New Comedy “The Hawk
King's “So this is Love
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State ...... Movies and Talkies
4 _
“A Country Girl,” revived at Sydney
Majesty’s, is a beautifully laundered musi-
eoniedy. It has much the same effect as a
stroll through an apple orchard to light
music in flower-time. There is no mellow
apple of melody or wit that can be plucked
and taken away, but it is possible to gather
a pretty bunch of fragrant freshness.
All hands, from the beauteous naval
tailor’s dummy hero to the white-robed
flunkeys of the white-robed Rajah of Bliong,
look as if they had stepped straight out of
a bath. There are only two scenes —chast-
ened English countryside, with wheat, sheafs
strewn about the stage, and Buckingham
Palace or some such columned residential in
London. Everything is spick-and-span the
rustic surroundings have been nicely
washed, and there isn’t an ear of wheat out
of place; the town house has had the electric
cleaners all over it; even the yokels are
elegantly groomed and the dairymaids are
as clean as milk and uniformly fresher. . The
plot is most admirably thin and pleasingly
incredible; the melodies are silky; and, in
fact, everything in the garden is lovely.
Sidney Burchall, as the, naval hero
returned from the seas in time to represent
his native corner of Devonshire in Parlia-
ment. has little to do but stroll on now and
then, look romantic and sing a few light
songs. Marie Bremner, as the girl he left
behind, has the rather plaintive, not to say
whining, injured lovelorn maiden part which
was the popular conception of a musicomedy
heroine when “A Country Girl” was born,
and which more than anything she does dates
the piece. Cecil Kellaway, as the Rajah of
Bliong, who unaccountably brings his Indian
bride —an excellent effort in make-up and
rapidly improving poise and voice by Gwyn-
neth Lascelles —to. the idyllic Devonshire set-
ting, is as much in character as he always
is. His “Peace, Peace” topical ditty, which
included some biting comments on the
talkies', was encored until he ran out of
verses. Amy Rochelle and Mary Lawson do
first-rate work, while Phil Smith addresses all
MARIE BREMNER, in “A Country Girl” at Sydney Majesty’s.
his remarks to the audience as usual, and
jogs about the stage like a rosy-faced robot
in tweeds aud hobbles.
But, apart from the uncommonly good
“sets” and the very unusual atmosphere of
washed freshness, it is Leo Franklyn’s per-
formance, as free-and-easy junior navy officer
Barry, which makes unnecessary any excuse
for reviving the aged item. Present writer
had seen Franklyn in sundry previous roles,
and, except for ids recent showing in “The
Belle of New York,” thought mighty little
of him. Hitherto he had been cast in low-
cornedy roles, and he can make a low
role so low that its vulgarity is repul-
sive. Here he has a slice of clean comedy
to interpret, involving more work than is
wished on to any other three members in
the cast. He proves himself a clever and
versatile comedian with the stamina of a
Pliar Lap. The laughter provoked is happy
rather than loud. There is no isolated “Ha,
ha”; it is bubbly, general and continuous.
A jolly fine bit of fooling. A jolly show
altogether.
* # #
The contemporary musician who said that
Beethoven was drunk when he wrote the
Seventh Symphony was right, though not
exactly in the way he intended. There was
a dean in tfie audience at the Melbourne
Town Hall on Saturday night when Fritz
Hart’s orchestrions essayed the opus, and if
Ludwig had used ordinary instead of musi-
cal language, the eminent theologian might
have felt as uncomfortable as if he had
strayed into a performance of “Getting
Gertie’s Garter” in mistake for “The Sign
of the Cross.” That is where composers
score over other art practitioners. When
the Australian censorship has completed its
noble work of purifying art and the drama-
tists have been equipped with blinkers and
the painters have been obliged by law to
paint their nudes in neck-to-knees, and it is
All Quiet —and dead —on the literary front,
the musicians will’ still be Hooding concert
halls with the sensuous strains of Wagner,
the lascivious whisperings of Chopin and
the Rabelaisian laughter of the author of the
Seventh Symphony.
The great poem to the spirit of reckless
gaiety w T as a bit beyond the capacities of
Fritz’s musicians. The giddy happiness of
the first movement, the aknost febrile excite-
ment of the scherzo and the raging gladness
of the finale left the young gentlemen and
ladies a trifle breathless. The grade was too
steep and from the violins came the sound
of gear-changing. Nevertheless, the per-
formance, on the ’whole, was meritorious.
There was color in it, if a trifle too much
sentimentality, and the lovely allegretto was
successfully negotiated, mainly through the
expert leadership of ’cellist David Sisser-
mann.
* * *
“So This Is Love,” White and Edgley’s
second gift to Melbourne at the King’s, is
up to the sample of “Love Lies,” their pre-
vious offering. Both are by Stanley Lupino
a«nd Hal Brody, in their own way the Gilbert
and Sullivan of syncopated comedy. Mr.
Lupino writes engaging dialogue, without a
hint of satire but
full of an amiable
sense of the ridi-
culous. Mr. Brody
syncopates his
music with re-
markable ingenu-
ity.
Love, according
t o the present
recipe, is composed
almost entirely of
stepdancing, and
the local chorus is
impressive in its
efficiency. The
ladies are appa-
rently equipped
with brass tips to
their shoes, and
keep up a continu-
ous terpsichorean
patter. Mona Zep-
pel, the “specialty”
dancer, is a model
of mingled grace
and athleticism.
Her performance
is a blinding revela-
tion of what the
human body can
do when it has to.
Her catcher, Harry
Guinsberg, late of
Fitzroy, several
times on Saturday
saved her lithe and
lovely body from
making a gory
mess of the car-
pet. The Austra-
tralian Test selec-
tors must have
overlooked li im.
The return of
Mona Bar lee is a
matter for con-
gratulation. Dawe
and Gordon pro-
vide a fresh passage of amusing comedy.
# *
Sean O’Casey’s “The Shadow of a Gun-
man” is passably acted and excellently pro-
duced at Sydney Turret. It is fairly solid
fare: a neat condensing of Dublin in the
Black and Tan reign of 1920. A poet, living
in a poor tenement, is believed by the other
residents to be a gunman, a belief shared
by a girl obsessed by heroic and patriotic
ideals. A real gunman, who has been killed,
gives the poet’s room-mate a travelling-bag,
which, when a raid occurs, is found to con-
tain Mills bombs. The discovery is made
while the raiders are ransacking the lower
floors, and the girl, coming in at the moment
and finding the two men in a panic, takes
the bag to her room. She is arrested, and,
attempting to escape, is shot, leaving the
poet, whom she be-
lieved she was sav-
ing, but who was
not at all a gun-
man, with the un-
pleasant thought
that he is a pol-
troon who has let
a woman die for
him. The play,
in two acts, is not
wholly satisfying.
It is a dramatic
fragment only, but
a fragment torn
out of dark suffer-
ing and held up
naked in the light.
The play de-
mands most in-
tense acting, and
only two? in this
presentation gave
it anything like
that—Richard Bel-
l-airs as the poet,
and Arthur Rear-
don as his room-
mate. If their
standard were up-
held, the Turret
could feel proud of
itself. One player
who couldn’t re-
member a mere
half dozen sen-
tences ruined the
first act; shrill
feminine voices
and male uproar
ruined the second.
This tragedy not
having been emi-
nently successful,
the Tur refers will
stage that ancient
light comedy, “Did
Shakspeare Write
Shakspeare, or Was
It Only Done by a Man Named Shaks-
peareY” at the King’s Hall on May
23. Professor liadcliffe-Browne will advance
what a daily has called "the novel” theory
that Edward Do Vero was the guilty person;
Ifould, of the Public Library, will pin his
faith to Old Bill. The claims of this item
of news for mention here are reasonably
sound—the amusement tax operates for the
show.
* * *
It used to be a point of dispute among
pianists as to whether Liszt, Brahms or
Bach showed the greatest cussedness in
inventing digital problems for executants of
their works to solve. One doesn’t think
about things like that while listening to
Backhaus, but one does afterwards. On
Saturday night at Sydney Town Hall he
played Liszt’s “Twelfth Rhapsody,” Brahms’s
“Variations on an Air of Paganini” and
Bach’s so-called “Italian Concerto,” and
demonstrated that these terrors of the key-
board are really quite simple—to him. Also
he took a couple of Beethoyen sonatas that
any other virtuoso wouldn’t think it worth
while to play, and showed that great music
doesn’t depend on complicated ornament for
its effect. If Backhaus had never played a
note of Beethoven we would have had to
acclaim him as a consummate artist.
* * *
“The Hawk” alighted on Melbourne
Comedy on Saturday. There is just a sug-
gestion that the “modern drama” adapted
from the French of Francois de Croisset
might turn out to be ancient melodrama
if it weren’t for the sober realism of
William Faversham’s acting and the quiet
sincerity of Ann Davis as the wife who
abandons a self-conscious lover (Frank
Leighton) in order to be an inebriate’s
retreat for a husband addicted to drugs and
card-sharping. “The Hawk” is strong in
action and swift in flight and should help the
ghost to walk for a few weeks at the Comedy.
ft- * V-
Edward Branscombe has got together
another clever little choir of male voices, and
Sydney went to hear them at the Palace on
Saturday. They sing; part-songs with six
boy sopranos to a nicely-balanced backing
of altos, tenors and basses. It is a charm-
ing combination, and the sparkling English
music they have mastered appeals very
strongly to the popular taste. Sea chanties,
folk-songs, musical waltzes and other quaint
inventions figured in the first programme.
The audience got more than mere money’s
worth of harmony and fun.
* * ¥
Leon Gordon began to say farewell to
Australia again at Sydney Criterion on
Saturday. The offering is “White Cargo, '
quite the best item in Gordon’s repertoire,
with Mary Macgregor more attractive than
her predecessors as the cullud vamp
Frank Bradley up to his usual high stanaaru
as the doctor. The Bulletin has never
spoken to a woman who did not cHSua
Gordon, and has never seen a Gordon aua
ence in which the women did not outnum
the men by three to one.
EDITH TALIAFERRO, American comedy artist, who will
introduce "Let Us Be Gay” to Australia.
The Palette
Late director of Sydney Gallery G. V.
F. Mann sold two of his Macquarie Gal-
leries’ exhibits to his old address. One, an
oil rendering of Berry’s Bay derelicts drows-
ing in mood with the Harbor, is a faithful
painting, warm, carefully done; and most ol'
the oils are like that. The water-color
bought for the nation is quite unimpressive,
and most of the water-colors are like that.
Still, there are two or three vastly
better than the one chosen, and pretty
well all the oils are better, too. The exhibits
altogether are attractive enough to make ir
seem a pity the artist has not done a good
deal more in his time.
Charles Bryant, R. 0.1., is banging 34 pic-
tures at the Athenaeum, Melbourne. “Aus-
tralian Artillery on the Move Along a Road
in Flanders,” is one of his most satisfying
studies. Bryant lias been painting Father
Neptune’s portrait for as long as the
present critic can remember, but he never
seems to have studied his model’s physiog-
nomy as a whole, so to speak. He has been
too busy prettifying the old gentleman’s eye-
lashes or touching up his lips. Otherwise his
pictures are interesting illustrations of
Britain’s maritime activities.
Adelaide Gallery is not strong in portrait
painting and admits this by banishing to a
distant, wing a lot of work that is more
valuable from the historical side than from
the artistic. It has, however, just been
given a good lift with three works presented
by that all-round patron of the arts Alec
Melrose, who bought them on a recent Eng-
lish visit. The largest is one O’Shea, an
Irish general of about ISOCb painted by
Archer Shee, P.R.A. • The sturdy white-
breeclied figure leans against his foreshort-
ened charger; it is the very model of a
“presentation portrait.” Then there is a
Peter Lely, depicting a Speaker of the
Commons, a youthful cynical face against a
curled wig and a dark elusive background.
Doubtless the most valuable of the three, the
Lely; but this critic prefers a Watson
Gordon, P.R.A. (Scottish), a loving study
of a shrewd elderly woman looking out from
lace ruffles and a* hood. Melrose is a good
judge as well as generous.
Phyllis Shillito, an instructor of design
to a Sydney technical school, has a show of
water-colors and etchings at the Beaux-Arts,
Melbourne. “Paternoster Row, Winchester,”
has atmosphere, and the lady wanders con-
fidently about old-world architecture. In
“Cliffs. Bondi,” the distant Pacific is inex-
tricably mixed up with the rock ramparts in
the foreground, owing to the lack of defini-
tion. "Heat” has a poetic quality.


Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter S Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters. Tilers and Shinglers
107 REDFERN ST. ; REDFERN, N.S.W
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety f-usa
Detonators
Cartridges
Conklm endura
Pens and Pencils
All Repairs FREE including
Accidental Breakage !
iPOfKEftv ii TON VVHII»t .Factory Representatives
Ifl Clapftnce Sydney
INSURE WITH THE
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Company—
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
This Week’s Investment Tip.
There is now an important but generally
overlooked factor in investment values which
had scarcely an existence until a few years
ago. This is the chance of Government
regulation or control.
Twenty years ago gas shares were reckoned
among the best things on the market. Here
you had not only security but almost a cer-
tainty of appreciation. Australian (Sydney)
Gaslight £6 shares moved steadily along from
£l2 in 1594 to £l9 in 1910; and there had
been half a dozen issues of shares at par in
between. When in 1912 a new Gas Act came
into force there was a revaluation of assets ;
and capital, previously £850,000, was raised
to £1,530,000. But that was the end of
the chapter. The law laid it down that any
further shares issued must be sold by auc-
tion ; and it was made very difficult for divi-
dends to climb past 8 p.c. The shares to-day
remain in the neighborhood of par, rising
only when money is cheap.
A very similar thing happened in connec-
tion with Sydney Ferries. At one time they
were so much in demand that they showed
a return of only 3 p.c.; now they are required
to show a return of about 71 p.c. In other
words, the market nowadays puts no value
upon, any chance of bonus issues or similar
accretions, and a dividend of more than 8 p.c.
would provoke a riot.
Are there any concerns in the same posi-
tion as these two occupied 20 years ago?
The most clearly threatened one is Colonial
Sugar, whose figures will be found in this
issue. A blunt statement of the case is
rather staggering. For the sake of maintain-
ing this industry in Australia we have fixed
the wholesale price at £26 16s. Any surplus
is exported, and fetches from £9 to £ll per
ton. Thus our national policy is more than
doubling the price of our sugar to the Aus-
tralian consumer. A system of that kind is
bound to provoke attack. What is offered in
its place may be no Setter—may indeed be
worse. But you can hear the cry of anguish
that goes echoing through the corridors of
Canberra: “We’re making the public pay
twice as much as they need for sugar in
order to let the fat C.S.R. makb over a mil-
lion a year.” It isn’t true, or half true ;
but that doesn’t matter—it is effective.
Henry Jones, the “jam king,” was a very
long-sighted man. When he sent his emis-
saries to the mainland 20-odd years ago to
put the IXH business into a co, he insisted
on one thing—“ You must get ‘Co-operative’
into the title somewhere. If you don’t Gov-
ernment will ‘regulate’ us some day, or tell
us what, divs. we can pay. ‘Co-operative’
in the name may save us.” And “H'enry
Jones Co-operative” it still is. Even so there
have been times when attacks have been
launched against this co. as a dealer in a
“necessary commodity,” and it has proceded
very warily in the matter of dividends.
The “cost of living” is going to matter a
great deal more than it has in the past. We
have pushed off trouble by signing a p.h.,
and the game is about played out. So divi-
dends will be watched much more closely
than they have been, and where justification
can be most easily found for interference,
there will be interference. For this has to
be remembered: there are always people to
clamor for it (as in the case of the compul-
sory wheat pool, for instance), because it
means political patronage and jobs for some-
body.
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Replacement
Year and De-
luded preciation
March, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1920 .. 572,349 438,750 1,089,236 1,376,988
Capital returned, £650,000.
1921 .. 781,418 495,625 1,375,029 1,517,130
Capital returned, £1,625,000.
Cash bonus, £203,125.
1922 .. 665,190 446,875 1,593,344 1,585,874
f 498,590 325,000 ? ?
I Fiji and M.L. co. in process of liquidation;
1923 J 110 accounts issued, and profits and reserves
j not disclosed. Capital returned, £1,625,000.
I Cash bonus to shareholders from Fiji
(liquidation, £325,000.
f Reserves capitalised, £650,000
1924 1 Reserves capitalised, £1,625,000
l 673,639 446,875 1,153,480 1,140,177
1925 .. 760,653 548,437 1,365,696 1,305,857
1926 .. 800,732 609,375 1,557,053 1,404,175
1927 .. 832,797 609,375 1,780,475 1,494,052
Reserves capitalised, £975,000.. 805,475
1928 .. 966,628 731,250 1,040,853 1,723,421
1929 .. 976,306 731,250 1,285,909 1,958,609
1930 .. 910,829 731,250 1,465,488 2,189,884
With such glittering achievements on view
it is not surprising that the investment
market liberally anticipated the future by
paying £5B 10s. for the £2O shares a year
ago. But there has been a wholesale revision
of estimates since, due (1) to the hardening
of interest rates, and (2) to the market’s
opinion of prospects following altered econo-
mic conditions. Thus bids for C.S.R. scrip
fell to £39 10s. early this month, rose
sharply to £4l 10s. following the publica-
tion of accounts and payment of the usual
10 p.c. div. and 2£ p.c. bonus, then eased to
£4O. At this last figure the return is 6.2 p.c.
on a 12£ p.c. div. basis. The return is
approximately the . same as from Government
bonds, which are now yielding on the average
1 p.c. more than they did 12 months ago.
So £9 18s. lid. of the slip in the price foi
C.S.R. scrip over the “last eight months can
be ascribed to the first cause mentioned, and
another £9-odd to the second.
The collapse of prices in the world’s sugar
markets. did the co.’s earnings no good, of
course, especially those from its extensive
Fiji interests. But British arid Canadian
preferences have taken most of the sting out
of the blow. In Australia, where the eo. gets
a lion’s share of the refining, it not only
has a strongly protected market, but a
guaranteed price for most of its product as
well. Also it has substantial investments
outside the sugar business. In the circum-
stances it would be difficult for the co. to
avoid winning good returns—-so long, that
is, as the present conditions are maintained.
Last year the profit claimed from all
sources fell away £65.477. Still it was 15.5
p.c. on the £5,850,000 of capital compared
with 16.6 p.c. and 16-5 p.c. for the two pre-
ceding years; and that is leaving out of
account £231,275 (= 3.9 p.c. on capital) added
to the replacement and depreciation fund.
Also there was £3,015,826 in suspense ac-
counts at March 31, up £40,184 during the
year. These are largely provision for con-
tingencies, and probably contain a wad of
genuine profit too.
The co.’s own and borrowed funds were
used in this way at the close of last accounts:
Refineries—Australia and Maoriland . . £2,942,390
Sugar mills and plant, etc. —
Commonwealth •. •. ... 2,351,449
Fiji (iess £1,6215,000 reserve) .. 1,391,912
Ocean steamers .. .. .. .. 100,000
Distillery .. .. .. .. .. 119,885
Office premises . . .. .. .. 66,850
Stocks and some book debts . . .. 2,810,090
Other book debts, investments, eta .. 1,813,656
Cash, deposits, etc. .. .. .. 2,628,029
£14,224,261
Liabilities—
Sundry creditors ..£1,310,480
Suspense accounts .. 3,015,827
Final div. 1930 .. 365,625
4,691,932
£9,532,329
The completion of new works on the river-
bank of Perth added £218,772 to the book
value of refineries in the last 12 months.
For many years all additions to fixed assets
have been paid for out of profits, and then
from the same source the chief earners have
been severely written down.
A feature which catches the eye is the
fine store of liquids :
Mar.,’27. Mar.,’29. Mar.,’3o.
Liquid assets .. £6,031,381 £6,874,071 £7,251,775
Liabilities .... 4,142,304 4,170,386 4,326,307
Liquid surplus .. £1,889,077 £2,703,685 £2,925,468
Liabilities include the suspense accounts, but
not the amount owing to the employees’ provi-
dent fund, etc. (£26,957 at March 31). Thus
the co. is visibly £1,036,391 better off than
it was three years ago, apart from any varia-
tion in the value of fixed assets. Meantime
£2,193,750 has been paid in dividends.
How long circumstances will continue to
specially favor the co. it is impossible to say.
Now that public effort is being directed to
lowering the cost of living, the present price-
level for sugar mav not be maintained when
the embargo on black-grown sugar comes up
for renewal next year. Also the disappear-
ance of British preference would affect earn-
ings, mainly of the co.’s Fiji assets, and of
its Australian business in relation to the
export surplus.
Perpetual Executors & Trustees (W.A.).
Towards
Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
Dec., 1922.. 155 Nil 155 1205
Additional preliminary exes., £BB6 .. 2091
June, 1923.. 222 Nil 222 1869
Additional preliminary exes.* £lB . . 1887
Dec., 1923.. 660 Nil 660 1227
T? Aeprvpc
June, 1924.. 1601 Nil 1601 374
Dec., 1924.. 1674 5 p.c. = 1575 99 473
June, 1925.. 2903 5 „ „ 1575 1328 1801
Dec., 1925.. 2342 5 „ „ 1575 767 2568
June, 1926.. 2723 6 „ „ 1890 833 3391
Dec., 1926. . 2655 6 „ „ 1890 765 4156
June, 1927.. 2443 7 „ „ 2205 238 4394
Dec., 1927.. 2941 7 „ „ 2205 736 5130
June, 1928.. 3815 8 „ „ 2520 1295 6425
Dec., 1928.. 4000 8 „ „ 2520 1480 7905
June, 1929.. 3520 9 „ „ 2835 685 8590
Dec., 1929.. 3657 9 „ „ 2835 822 9412
This little Westralian trustee co. has done
well for shareholders. It began in 1922 with
£1360 of capital gone in preliminary exes.
But the intangibles were soon rubbed out,
an early appearance was made on the divi-
dend list, and the rate of distribution has
advanced annually since. The co.’s success
in this direction has been due largely to
returns from its six-storeyed building in St.
George’s-terrace, bought in 1922 for £47,519 ;
with additions it now stands in the books at
£57,909 (up £549 during the last 12 months).
Other assets at Dec. 31 were furniture,
£1743; Government securities, £12,650; cash,
£2362; book debts, etc., £3820. Only £l2B
was coming to creditors.
For the 12 months to the close of last
accounts interest brought in £739 and rents
£7542; the latter includes £1270 which the
co. charged itself. Rates took £1433, so the
net return from the property was £6109 =
9.6 p.c. on capital. No hint is given as to
volume of trusts in hand, but commission
earnings have almost doubled since 1926,
reaching £16,473 last year, when the growth
was £2705. Altogether the year’s gross earn-
ings (£24,754) sprang £2818; exes.
(£18,020) took £2141 of the increase, re-
ducing the net improvement in the profit
claimed (£6733) to £677. That was after
£445 as against £1759 in the previous year
had been added to commissions suspense
account, raising it to £4009. This is the
unearned portion of the corpus commission,
for which credit is taken in the p. and L
account as estates are wound up. Including
it with profits the year’s net result was
11.3 p.c. on capital as against 12.4, 8.5, 8.5
and 8.3 p.c. back to 1925.
The co.’s future looks bright. There is
£63,000 of capital to feed —210,000 pound
shares paid to 6s. Westralia is developing
nicely, and the co.’s business can be expected
to do likewise, but the readjustment of capi-
tal values may affect returns from the co.’s
own funds as well as its commission earnings.
The net tangible backing for the scrip is
235. per pound of paid capital.
Ulawarra Steam (N.S.W.).
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1920 .. £7,843 10 p.c. = £7,500 £343 £4,114
Special div. (5 p.c.) from inner
reserves, £3750
Reserves taken in, £17,350 .. .. 21,404
Co. reconstructed; £25,000 of re-
serves capitalised.
1921 .. 10,137 10 p.c. = 8,750 1,387 1,387
1922 .. 10,500 10 „ „ 10,000 500 1.857
1923 .. 10.045 10 „ „ 10,000 45 1,932
1924 .. 10,047 10 .. „ 10,000 47 1,979
1925 .. 9,041 9 „ „ 9,000 41 2,020
1926 . . 6,542 7 „ 7,000 1,563
1927 .. 8,509 8 „ „ 8,000 509 2,072
1928 . . 8,626 8 „ „ 8,000 626 2,698
Reserves taken in, £12,500.. .. 15,198
1929 .. 23,561 8 p.c. = 8,000 15,561 30,759
1930 .. 18,875 9 „ „ 9,000 9,875 40,634
In 1929 the label on £12,500 of accumu-
lated earnings was changed from “over-
hauls and surveys account” to “general re-
serve.” Then ±13,800 dropped from some-
where into the same pot, raising the contents
to £26,300. The increase appeared to be
substantially or wholly due to the amount
by which the insurance received exceeded
the book value of the Merimbula, which be-
came a total wreck just before the close of
accounts in 1927. That is to say, the board
could have shown more profit in the past
if it had wanted to.
However, it is only during the last decade
that shareholders have skimmed any cream
from the business. The co. has been trading
on the N. S. Wales South Coast for the last
78 years, and for many of them it was a
struggle to pay 7 p.c.; the rate climbed to
10 p.c. in 1918. Two years later a special
5 p.c. was paid from inner reserve and
£25,000 of bonus scrip was scattered; still the
10 p.c. div. continued until interrupted by
drought, floods and industrial troubles five
years later. Though favorable conditions
have since been experienced, the board has
written the figures with care. The profit
claimed last year was £10,576, or £Bl5 more
than the year before. Including £8299
dropped into reserves the result was 18.8
p.c. on capital. The div., however, was only
lifted a point to 9 p.c., thus leaving more
than half the year’s disclosed net earnings
in the business.
The co.’s snug position and other things
show up in the next comparison:—
1920. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Liabilities .. £11,506 £11,282 £8,052 £9,894
Ship property .. 49,500 60,844 44,993 58,658
Other property .. 1,717 2,807 2,095 2,135
Plant, stores, etc. 3,362 2,645 2,315 2,173
Book debts .. 14,078 15,936 13,519 10,862
War Loan, cash, etc. 43,062 48,268 79,889 81,800
The Cobargo, a new cargo steamer, was
bought last year, and £13,565 was added to
the book value of the fleet The increase
was almost wholly covered by the year’s sur-
plus earnings; liquids were drawn upon for
a mere £746 net, and only £1842 was added
to the debt, which includes provision for
taxation. Thus the shrinkage in the liquid
surplus (£82,768) was £2588. Assuming
that Government bonds and deposits turn in
6 p.c., which is doubtful, then the balance of
last year’s profit was 23.8 p.c. on the book
value of the fleet at March 31. Obviously
the ships are not over-valued.
The market prices the pound shares at
255., at which figure the return is 7.2 p.c.
on a 9 p.c. div. basis. The backing amounts
to 28s. Id. in net tangibles, of which 12s. 7d.
is in fixed assets and the balance in surplus
liquids.
Motor & Cash Orders, Limited (Sydney).
This is another t.p. finance concern which
has failed to live up to its gaudy prospectus.
The co. started as Motor Finance and Securi-
ties, Ltd., on Aug. 14, 1926. It was pro-
moted by Percy Freeman, who took a job as
managing director for five years at £2OOO
a year, and the sole right to dispose of
400,000 pound shares at a commission of 10
p.c. The public was offered 50,000 10 p.c.
cum. prefs. and 350,000 ords. Then the
name was changed to the present title, a new
prospectus was issued, tne board strength-
ened, and a share-selling agreement made
with British . Australian Underwriters on
terms that were not disclosed in the pros-
pectus.
Business began in April, 1927, and 1 when
the first balance was struck seven months
later £53,328 of capital had been gathered
at a cost of £20,716, or 7s. 9d. in the pound.
Trading for the period resulted in a loss of
£759. For the next 12 months gross earn-
ings (£15,796) improved only £7658. After
giving goodwill a book value of £5OOO, and
adding £524 to preliminary exes. (£21,240),
the board said net profit was £3Oll, and
10 p.c. was handed to the prefs.
Many shareholders became thoroughly dis-
satisfied with the management. So, “in order,
to take the earliest opportunity of presenting
the audited accounts,” the board had the
books ruled off at Aug. 31, 1929; yet the
sheet was not presented until three months
later. For the 10 months to balancing date
interest, etc., brought in £15,815, of which
exes, took £11,561. In the cash-order section
a loss of £3290 was registered, and a profit
of £7544 was claimed in the motor finance
branch; thus the board put net profit at
£4254. The auditors’ certificate, however,
states: “We are of opinion that no div.
should be paid until such time as reserves
are sufficient to provide for unaccrued in-
terest and for possible losses on the realisa-
tion of book debts, which cannot be defi-
nitely ascertained at present.” Reserves and
the p. and 1. balance totalled £10,850. It
is obvious therefore that the board has put
the best face possible on a very doubtful
position. It has been decided to get out of
the cash order business, and confine the
co.’s activities to financing hire-purchase
agreements. But the field is crowded, trading
is growing more difficult and the co. has a
heavy load of intangibles ; the only thing that
looks certain is a cut in capital.
Paid capital is £84,591 in 31,204 prefs.
and 66,967 ords.; there was £2047 coming
to creditors. To represent the lot there
were advances, etc., with a book value of
£69,295 ; cash, £769 ; fittings, £llB4 ; intan-
gibles, £26,240. The prefs. are entitled to a
cumulative 10 p.c. and have priority as to
capital. Including £13,580 of called but
unpaid capital, they were covered by net
tangibles with a paper value of 535. per
share. Similar cover for the ords. was
15s. Bd. The real position, of course, depends
upon the soundness of the advances, and as
already pointed out, there is a good deal of
doubt about that. Neither class of scrip is
listed; the investment value of the prefs. is
speculative, and that of the ords. doubly so.
Bon Marche, Ltd. '(Sydney).
f Dividends. •, Towards
Net Pref. Re-
Profit. 71 p.c. Ordinary. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Feb., 60,000
1921.. 18,760 6000 7J p.c. = 7500 6,260 54,740
1922.. 14,666 6000 7J „ „ 7500 1,065 63,675
1923.. 18,606 6000 71 „ „ 7500 5,106 48,569
1924.. 23,513 6000 71 „ „ 7500 10,013 38,556
1925.. 23,661 6000 71 „ „ 7500 10,161 28,395
1926.. 23,686 6000 71 „ „ 7500 10,186 18,209
1927.. 23,756 6000 71 „ „ 7500 10,256 7,953
Reserves.
Assets written up, £25,000 .. 17,047
1928.. 22,352 6540 8 p.c. = 8000 7,812 24,859
1929.. 15,650 7500 8 „ „ 8000 150 25,009
1930.. 11,140 7500 6 „ „ 6000 22,649
Dislocation of business, due to building
operations, affected the 1929 figures and
those for the first half of the last term.
Then general trade depression restricted turn-
over, and the net result for the 12 months
to the close of last accounts was less than
half the average of recent years. After
attending to the prefs., the balance of the
year’s profit was 3.6 p.c. on the ord. capital
compared with 8.1, 15.8, 17.7 and 17.6 p.c.
back to 1926. Only two points were chipped
off the div., reducing it to 6 p.c., so the none
too substantial reserves were raided for
£2360.
The co. is a drapery offshoot of Marcus
Clark; it was formed into a separate con-
cern 10 years ago, and took a lease of pre-
mises at the corner of George and Harris
streets, Sydney. The business, largely t.p.,
stepped along nicely, so a couple of years
ago it was decided to anchor goodwill and
provide for expansion. The freehold was
(Continued on page 18.)


Life and Fire
Policies
You are being asked to
insure with offices which
are on the verge of bank-
ruptcy.
If you want to protect
yourselves read
The “‘WildCat’
Monthly”
MAY NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/- ; PER ANNUM,
22/6. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt.
ft ft ft
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 48S Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* ft * ft
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Exchange
Arranged. Geo. E. Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria
Buildings, Corner Collins and Swanston Streets, Mel-
bourne. — Advt.
ft ft ft *
In choosing Pioneer Wood Pipe for big water
supply jobs, engineers are influenced by the remark-
able efficiency of this form of conduit —its great
durability and non-corrosive qualities. Pioneer Wood
Pipe is cheaper than metal pipe—it is easier to
lay, transport and handle. It costs less to freight.
For every liquid conveying purpose Pioneer Wood
Pipe definitely offers outstanding advantages. Write
for full information to the Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge),
Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; and at Footscray, Victoria.
—Advt.
3*5 i-: Sjf %
Bismuth. —We arc buyers of Bismuth Concentrates
in any quantity. Write, giving particular’s of
quantity available, and send samples to Elliott
Brothers, Limited, Box 494 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
—Advt.
ft ft ft ft
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON,
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
ft ft ft ft
Hydraulic Power, Electric and , Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Risk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
“CHROMOL”—the
Super Driving Belt.
Unusual working conditions call for belting with unusual qualities. “Chromol”
is especially adapted for heavy-duty drives, and ensures reliable and economic
power transmission in a dust- and damp-laden atmosphere, all kinds of
weather and difficult climatic conditions.
For long-life service and efficiency use “Chromol” belting.
The three “Chromol” belts shown here, 30in., 24in, and Min. wide,
made for heavy-duty drives in a large mining plant.
were
mmm mm
(Chrome "Tan Leather)
xw e suiorA
DRIVINC BELT
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
PIONEER HOUSE, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Our only City Address).
The “Hit-or-Miss” Man
Usually Misses
'THE “hit-or-miss,” man may
start out in business, but he
is not likely to make a success
of it. Successful business to-day
is being conducted on the basis
of known principles. With the
co-operation of the leading busi-
ness authorities of the world, the
A.H.I. has assembled these prin-
ciples in its Modem Business
Course, with which goes a fine
supporting monthly service. You
will be interested in the absorb-
ing booklet, “Forging Ahead in
Business.” It describes this
course and service in detail. Send
for your copy to-day.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON INSTITUTE
Controlled in Australia by •
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON.
MELBOURNE: 38 Bank House, Bank Place
410-12 Collins Street.
SYDNEY: 38 Barrack House, Barrack Street.
bought for £25,000 below valuation, so the
property was written up by that amount
and paper reserves benefited. To finance the
deal £20,000 of pref. money was got in,
making paid capital £200,000, half prefs. and
the other half ords. The public is interested
in the prefs.; the ords., which include
£60,000 for goodwill, are all held by the
parent, who, by the way, recently cut the
rate on its own ords. from 10 p.c. to 6 p.c.
A new building has gone up on the spot,
and to see the work to completion and carry
an extra £17,255 of book debts, £60,000 was
raised on mortgage last year:—
1921. 1926. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital. . £lBO,OOO £lBO,OOO £200,000 £200,000
Liabilities . . 13,515 20,258 28,573 82,098
Freehold .. 103,371 124,205
Plant, etc. . . 3,449 3,557 4,237 18,144
Stock . . 34,618 31,933 38,837 40,856
Book debts. . 99,519 146,175 109,095 126,350
Investments, cash,
etc. . . 11,088 9,775 7,022 9,943
At the close of accounts the amount coming
to sundry creditors (£22,098) was £6475
lighter. Thus the contraction in the more
or less liquid surplus (£95,051, including
slocks) was £31,330.
The prefs. carry a cumulative 74 p.c. and
have priority as to capital. Last year’s
reduced profit was a shade under H times
their annual requirements, and the backing
figures out at 445. 6d. in net tangibles. That
is apart from the insurance fund (£5000),
which is not included with reserves above.
The scrip, priced at 21s. a year ago, is now
on offer at 19s. 6d. The return at that figure •
is 7.7 p.c.
Fred Seifert and Co. (M.L.).
This Maoriland flax-growing venture was
launched by Fred Seifert in 1926. The co.
bought 4375 acres of land, largely swamp,
near Hamilton. The promoter planned to
plant 2000 acres of this with flax, and to mill
and sell the product. The price for the land
was put at £43,600 (about £lO an acre),
and the cost of a four-years’ development
programme at £34,000. Another £5500 was
to be spent on draining a further 1100 acres.
The whole scheme was mapped on a capital
outlay of £lOO,OOO, so the public was asked
for £86,100 in pound shares, and the vendors
took £13,900 in paids—£lsoo to the pro-
moter and the balance in part payment for
the land. The directors, however, were autho-
rised to go to allotment on 40,000 shares.
Profits of 24 p.c. p.a. were spoken of: they
were, of course, a guess, for large-scale culti-
vation of native flax in Maoriland has yet
to prove itself ns a commercial proposition.
Unfortunately for shareholders, estimates
went all awry from the start. At Oct. 31
last only 59,477 shares had been issued, on
which £42,186 was paid. Mortgages figured at
£4224, sundry creditors at £1026, and there
was still £1;i,127 coming to the vendors. To
represent the lot there was the land, in at
£45,571, including £6029 spent on develop-
ment, and livestock, plant, etc., £352. Pre-
liminary exes, and brokerage (£6890) and
administrative charges, etc. (£6750), had
made off with the rest.
Obviously the co. has been hamstrung
for lack of working capital. Thus the cul-
tivation and planting of only 300 acres had
been completed when the books last closed.
With more than eleven-twelfths of the pro-
perty undeveloped, and since efforts to raise
further funds locally have been unsuccess-
ful, the proposition looks pretty hopeless.
The organising brokers, howevei’, recently
took an option over the property at £66,000,
and rushed to London to float a co. to take
over this and other Maoriland flax-growing
areas; but the Hatry crash and the collapse
on the New York Exchange are reported to
have delayed developments.
How present shareholders are likely to
fare it ’is impossible to say at the moment;
much will depend upon what the option-
holders are able to do. One point which
stands out clearly for the investor is to be
chary of new ventures where the board is
entitled to go to allotment when insuflieient
capital has been subscribed.
“Kaolin”: Apropos of “Broken Hill and
Metal Markets” (B. 16/4/’3O) :
Thirty years ago Broken Hill was having a boom.
At that time practically all the zinc in the ore was
being tipped out on the dumps, and with it went
half the silver and a third of the lead. But big
profits were being made, for lead was at the unpre-
cedentedly high price of £l7 a ton.
Since then there has been a great advance, due
mainly to the flotation process—Broken Hill’s
world-famous contribution to metallurgy. Now
only about 10 per cent, of the zinc, lead and silver
escapes with the tailings. Underground ventilation
has been greatly improved and the water-axial drill
has increased rock-breaking efficiency. Still mines
have had to close down because lead is now about
£l7 10s. a ton.
The reason, of course, is that working costs are
in the region of 40s. per ton compared with 20s.
in less enlightened days. And this in turn is due
to the national orgy of economic fallacies in recent
years—one of the chief fallacies being that, for
higher wages, shorter hours and improved conditions,
it has been considered a “fair thing" to give in
exchange a decreased output.
The great lodes of Broken Hill and Mount Morgan
(at the latter £ 16,000,000-worth of ore lies idle)
and the Newcastle coalfields are amongst Australia’s
greatest assets; if working costs were at a reason-
able figure these would be yielding profits that
would provide capital for new industries in the
best possible way. That they have done so in the
past is shown by the Iron linob quarries and Port
Pirie smelters in S, Australia; by the Risdon
electrolytic works and the Rosebery mining field in
Tasmania; by the Newcastle steel works, Cockle
Creek smelters and other plants in N.S.W. All
these things, and there are others, are due more or
less to Broken Hill profits.
If Australia wants an illustration of the imperative
need for improved production costs, there it is.
H= * -4! *
Placer Development’s firstborn, Bulolo
Gold Dredging, was not long on the market
with its 476,000 five-dollar shares. Consoli-
dated Goldfields of S’Africa (a London con-
cern) and its associate, the Goldfields Ameri-
can Development Co, (New York), took
200,000, and a further 25,000 was lifted by
another well-known London mining organi-
sation. The balance was over-subscribed
privately in England, Canada, U.S.A., Aus-
tralia, Maoriland and New Guinea. Placer
takes 224,000 paids and £50,206 cash; so
the Bulolo Co. kicks off wfith a subscribed
capital of £729,000. It has 40,000,000 c.y. of
2s. Id. dirt, which two dredges, each capable
of handling 1,700,000 c.y. per annum, are
expected to turn over in 13 years. The first
is scheduled to commence digging in Jan.,
1932. Divs. of 10 p.c. for the first year and
28 p.c. thereafter are spoken of.
Presently Placer intends to take up another
11 miles of Bulolo flats adjoining the
southern end of the area now being equipped.
There are boulders in the new ground, and
the wash promises to be heavy, so it will
need to be rich. Other areas north of the
Bulolo Co.’s holding are also being tested.
* * * *
F. M. Murdoch, who has patented a leach-
ing process for the precipitation of copper
by the use of lime, is the chief figure behind
Cloncurry Copper, Ltd. —a £20,000 float
which is to take over and work the Vulcan
mine, about 15 miles from Cloncurry. The
known ore body is about 450 ft. in length,
100 ft. wide and 90ft. high. Geologist W.
S. Jensen, lately of Mt. Morgan, says the
deposit, which carries a light overburden, is
ideal for open-cut work, and adds that there
is a great possibility of at least 250,000 tons
ore averaging 5 p.c. copper. For stone of
This grade all-in costs are put at £39 per
ton; it is proposed to treat 100 tons per
day. Treatment will consist of dry crushing
the stone to £in. or Jin. mesh, then leaching
it with a lime, sulphur and salt solution in
concrete vats, the copper being precipitated
by the addition of milk of lime. In this way
it is claimed that 97 p.c. of the copper (90
p.c. pure) is extracted in 24 hours. Lime-
stone and pyritic ores are to be had on the
spot, and there is permanent water about
11 miles away. Provided working results
pan out according to laboratory tests, the
co. has possibilities with copper at the pre-
sent price.
* :!: !!'. ; * -
Webb’s Silver Mine, Emmaville (N.S.W.),
has completed the erection of mining , machin-
ery. Since the commencement of operations
in January the water has been lowered 200
ft. to the 440 ft. level. The bottom or 650 ft.
level should be reached in about four weeks,
when the ore bodies said to exist between
the 550 ft. and 650 ft. levels will be revealed.
$ * *
After vainly searching for a number of
years in Westralia, Central America, Canada
and elsewhere for a new mine, Great Boulder
Prop, has turned its earnest attention to
Tanami. The option which has been taken
on its behalf by A. H. Collier, of London,
is on Laurie’s Tunnel. Meanwhile the eo.’s
old gold producer at Boulder (W.A.) is
doing better than seemed possible a year ago.
* * *•
After long delay the mill has commenced
at Glenelg Hills, Perth’s nearest goldfield.
Small crushings have been treated from
Glenelg Queen and Isles’s properties, and,
although no are yet available, results
are knowm to be satisfactory. Parcels _ of
ore from Camp View and Great Beacon mine
are to follow, so many deserving lease-
holders should see a little real money at last.
# * H: *
South Kalgurli’s surplus for quarter ended
March 31 last averaged a shade over £3036
a month. But diminution of the higher
values in the stopes on the Australia lode
may presently reduce the average monthly
profit to about £2500. There is also the
possibility of a further shrinkage of about
£250 a month if the insurance premium on
occupational diseases, hitherto paid by the
Westralian Government, has to be met by
the co.
* * *
The Golden H'orseshoe retreatment of
tailings is stated to have panned out well
so far, and 33 p.c. divs. are being talked
of. Approximately 40,000 tons were put
through the plant up to the end of March,
leaving about two million tons still to deal
with.
A Westralian syndicate which recently
sent Jock Thomson, ex-M.L.A., to New
Guinea to locate a new Eldorado, which a
former German official said he found before
the war, has drawn a blank. Word has been
received from Thomson that the prospect
is worthless. The syndicate is now pinning
its faith to a couple of blocks at the new
find at Edjudina (W.A.).
J[c * * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Extent of fluorspar deposits in Aus-
tralia? (2) Does the B. H. P. Go. mine
its own deposits? (3) Annual production
last three years? (4) Consumption same
period? (5) Present annual requirement?
(6 ) deposits in N.Q. Gulf Country being
worked? (7) How far are deposits from
railhead? (8) Present market value f.o.b.
Sydney? (9) Chances of export? (10)
Uses? —6384.
(1) Fluorspar deposits occur in most
States, principal known deposits being at
Brewongle (N.S.W.), Black Ridge and
Myponga (S.A.), Chillagoe and Mungana
(Q.), and near Jacob’s Siding and in the
Coolgardie (W.A.) area. (2) Yes, occa-
sionally. (3) Complete recent figures are
not available. “Commonwealth Official Year-
Book” records 122 tons produced in 1926
and 108 tons produced in 1927. (4) and
(5) Information not available. (6) and
(7) Only deposits being commercially
worked in Queensland are those at Chillagoe
and Mungana. Queensland Mines Depart-
ment knows of no deposits in the Gulf
Country. (8) Fluorspar in Sydney has
not an open market, but prices generally
range from £2 10s. to £3 per ton for mineral
containing 85 p.c. Ca. F/2 with Is. per unit
extra over 85 p.c. (9) Not promising, as
oversea fluorspar is cheap. (10) It is
used as a constituent in dense, opaque, white
and colored enamels, for coating sheet-iron,
steel and cast-iron, and where an easily
fusible enamel is needed for ceramic pur-
poses.
Value of gold produced last year in
N.S.W.? Where obtained? Did value pro-
duced exceed working costs? —6162.
74960 z. fine valued 'at £31,842. Of this
total 36000 z., valued at £15,300, was
obtained as a by-product from treatment of
Broken Hill silver-lead ores. The rest came
from many localities, principally from old
workings, and with few exceptions it is very
doubtful' whether value exceeded actual cost
of mining. Outside. Broken' Hill, principal
returns were furnished by mining divisions
of Bodalla.-Canbelego, Cdpeland, Drake, Hill
End, Hillgrove, Mandurama, Moruya, Uralla
and Windeyer.
In a limited liability co. tvhat are the
relative positions of pref. shares and deben-
tures?. Are debentures capital? What are
first mortgage debentures? —6472.
“Capital” is a, term used very loosely—
sometimes generally, sometimes specifically.
Under most companies’ articles capital
means only shgre capital. Ususally this is
divided into pref. and ordinary shares.
Pref. shares come in ahead of ordinaries;
but their preferences are generally restricted
in some way—for example, their dividends
may be limited to 7 p.c., or their prefer-
ence may not hold good on a distribution of
capital on liquidation. A debenture is a
certificate of mortgage which comes in
ahead of even pref. shares. A first mort-
gagee has the 'first bite; there may be
second and third mortgage debentures, which
get second and third bites—if there is any-
thing left. On a liquidation these are
secured creditors; unsecured creditors are
next satisfied. Anything left is divided among
the shareholders, according to their rights
as expressed in the co.’s constitution.
(1) Is there much Australian capital in
Vacuum Oil Co.’s scrip? (2) Is this scrip
on sale in the Stock Exchanges of the world?
(3) How are Shell shares held, and what pro-
portion does the British Government hold? Is
it represented on the directorate, and what
is that co.’s principal source of sunnhi?
6138.
(1) Don’t know of any Australian capi-
ta] invested in Vacuum Oil Co. (2) It is
listed on New York Stock Exchange. There
have recently been rumors of an amalgama-
tion with the big Standard Oil Co. (New
Jersey). (3) It is not possible to give
figures. The Shell Go. and Royal Dutch Co.
(which merged their interests in 1907) con-
trol more than a score of subsidiary operat-
ing cos. Scrip in at least one of these subsi-
diaries is partly held in U.S.A., but it looks
as though most of the capital in the organ-
isation as a whole is held in Britain or
Holland. There are three main operating-
concerns—Anglo-Saxon Petroleum Co., Bata-
via Petroleum ,Co. and the Shell Union Co.
The Shell Co. owns 40 p.c. of the scrip in
the first two, and the first operating co. owns
a portion of the capital of the third. Sources
of oil supply include the U.S.A. (which con-
tributed over 40 p.c. in 1926), Venezuela and
the East Indies. The holding, if any, of
the British Government in the Shell Co. is
not known. But there is another co., the
Anglo-Persian, in which the Government
since the outbreak of war, has taken up ord.
shares to the value of five million pounds
(ord. capital now 13J millions).
BRIEF ANSWERS.
E.J.G.: There is no best investment. It
is entirely a matter of the amount of safety one is
prepared to sacrifice for the sake of 'an extra one
or two per cent R.R.W.: Don’t worry so much
about the fall. It has been mainly due to money
being worth more; which means that it requires a
higher return ; which in its turn means that prices
have to fall to yield that higher return.... G.M.L.:
Same to you. You would probably go further
and fare worse.,. : (1) Your money was
lost; and you go into the new co. on that, footing.
(2) Three hundred if you apply and pay for them.
. ...T.F.W.: Don’t know. It is purely a gamble.
. ...R.T.W.: (1) See no signs of weakness in the
two you are anxious about. (2) Not enthusiastic
about either of them... .Belgrove: (1) Exception-
ally good lot. (2) Depends wholly on what risks
you are prepared to take... . J.W.V.: The N.S.W.
Registrar of Joint Stock Cos. can’t trace it; it was
never the registered holder of a lease in this State
and it was never listed on the Stock Exchange.
Better forget it... . V.R.R.: Solvent and efficient,
though not as profitable as some. Still, you can’t
get those frills in many places 1.E.P.: A.M.P.
. ...S.A.A.: Stick to what you’ve got till you’re
sure some other office will take you.. . .G.L.C.,
Arpin and S.D.: See B. 30/4/’3O. . . .Barmena : See
comment elsewhere these pages.


Greater Mileage with the
Reserve Strength in
roe
U
Mi
Mi
>
r
B a
Dunlop definitely gives better travel
and greater mileage.
Because of the deep, wide, clean cut
sturdy tread.
Because the super cords are posi-
tively rubber insulated and non-
heating.
Because its heavier layer of cushion
Because its scientifically balanced
sidewalls evenly distribute the load.
Because the rim-strip is tougher and
extra cushioned for protection.
Because the Beads are made with
special Heavy Steel wires embedded
in a special Dunlop bead structure.
rubber protects the
casing by absorbing
road shocks.
DUNLOP
AUSTRALIA
PERDRIAU
CO. LTD.
MANUFACTURERS
RUBBER
••■ * t
ALL STATES
OF
Buy Dunl o p s for
greater mileage. The
assurance of reserve
strength!
GARDEN HOSE
WATERPROOF COATS
hUBBER BOOTS
RUBBER BOWLS
RUBBER MATTING
AND EVERY DESCRIPTION OF RUBBER GOODS
“MORE MILES IX EVERY TYRE”


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
HOW MANY TIMES ?
How many times have you promised comeone near and dear
that you would, for a mutual purpose, save your money?
How many times have you promised yourself that the next big
opportunity would find you prepared?
How many times have you admitted the wisdom of saving habits
and then left the other fellow to do the saving?
Does it mean anything to you that in Australia there are several
million other fellows steadily saving their spare cash and beating you
to the big opportunity?
Take a Savings Account into partnership—profit is assured.
(Commonwcaltb Savinas JBank of Bustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All'meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner d
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive tariff from 13/6
per day, or £4/4/- weekly. Special quotations for
sporting bodies, etc. Situated right opposite Spencer
Street Station; no taxi fares; railway porter carries
baggage across if necessary. Please write for
detailed tariff card. Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is
sufficieift address.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
THE QUALITY POLISH
KIWI
“Piecrust”: I do not know whether the
dead gibbon at Adelaide Zoo (B. 23/4/’3O)
is the one I have had dealings with, but
I sincerely hope so. I was there about four
years ago, and paused for a time before the
cage of a large blue monkey. The inmate
was pondering in one corner with the
abstracted expression of a Scotch undertaker
who finds out too late that he has buried a
pauper. Just as the crowd was trying to
decide whether he was in love or merely
ill, the animal sprang up, and without giving
EXPECTING TOO MUCH.
NEW TYPIST (to employer): “I’ve got a complaint to make, sir—the cashier just
kissed me.”
THE BOSS : “I’m sorry, Miss, but this is a busy office, and I can’t attend to all the
details myself.”
the least hint of his intention discharged
a double handful of gravel and small stones
at his admirers. As they fell back, dazedly
plying handkerchiefs, he looped his tail
round a cross-member, and, swinging head
downwards, emitted a derisive laugh. We
were informed by a kindly passer-by that
this was a favorite trick, hut the little man
next to me, whose left eye was full
of sand, was not satisfied a*nd sought a
keeper. After 15 minutes of complaints and
explanations the attendant got fed up.
“Well,” he snarled, “wliaddya wanta irritate
the animal for, lookin’ in its cage for ’arfan-
ourattertime ?” The little man was not good-
looking, and the listening concourse greeted
this with a cheer. “I s’pose the facta the
matter is,” proceeded the keeper, “that
’e reminds yer of yer wife.” “I’m hanged
if he does,” said the little man bitterly, still
nursing his eye—“my wife always misses me.”
* * * *
“O’ Jones” : By a mosquito clouded pool in
the Hawaiian valley of lao, two owl-goggled
gents, were spreading blank folders of paper
in close rows round the edge where the
mud was most miasmal. What was after-
wards found to be a solution of human blood
was being sprinkled on the paper, to
the great enjoyment of the mosquitoes. When
the mosquito parties were at their merriest
the two gents, would slyly sneak upon the
folders, suddenly snap them closed, and with
a heavy roller squash the mosquitoes into a
pattern between the paper. All this to me
was most bewildering, but I wa*s still more
puzzled when one of the gents., after medi-
tatively staring at the mess in a folder,
grabbed up a saxophone and filled the air
with demoniacal sounds. Back at the hotel
that evening I noticed these two strange per-
sons being lionised, and tactlessly exposed
my ignorance as to their identity to a cove
from California. He almost exploded at
me: “What! Doncha* know? Them two guys
is Bilgo and Bangs, Amurrica’s greatest
composers of talkie accompaniments.” That
explains a* lot. They looked on those lao
mosquitoes as professional rivals.
“Dr. Nil” : As I passed a small plantation
this morning I heard a good deal of bad
language in the kookaburra dialect, and
looked into the matter. I found two kookies
—full-grown birds —under a small bush,
beak to earth, standing perfectly rigid and
each having a good grip of a strip of mutton
scrag. They preserved absolute silence and
immobility while they slowly and rhythmi-
cally blinked at one another. Then, at
exactly the same moment, they commenced
tugging and wrestling and swearing through
their noses. After each round of about a
minute came an interval of stillness. By
what arrangement of common consent they
started and stopped the rounds I could not
determine. There was no gong nor referee.
The fight ended in one of the kookies making
the fatal error of shifting his hold in order
to let out an extra bit of personal abuse.
The other bird had the mutton out of his
opponent’s grip in one blink of an eye, and
swallowed in the next.
* * * *
“Choom”: He dodged his way into the
secretary’s sanctum of Sydney’s big S.how
and sat" down. “I come frae Scotland,” he
announced. The man behind the desk, who
was very, very busy, snorted. “I can smell
it,” he said, briefly and bitterly. “Aye, aye,”
crooned the visitor, rocking gently, “Ye may
break, ye may shatter the flask as ye will,
the dew o’ th’ heather will cling to it still,
Burrns. But that’s no’ what I cam’ ta
speir ye aboot. Ye liae na coos.” “If you
mean cows,” said the man at the desk, “we
don’t keep them here. See the judge. His
SAFETY FIRST.
DRUNK: “Wheresh you taking me?”
POLICEMAN : “Police station.”
DRUNK: “Tha’sh all right. I thought you might be taking me home to my misshus.”
name is McTavitoshtulloeh.” “Yon man at
the booth chairged me a shilling for a wee
nippie,” continued the high crooning voice,
“an’ I conseeder that a fair imposeetion.”
“I’d say he’s a fair cow, but why worry me
about it? His name’s McSporran. Go and
quarrel with him.’’ “Ye hae na coos an’ ye
hae na horrses. Doon by the Clyde they hae
’orrses that hairry ye canna see their ’ooves.
John Broon of Athol has a horrse that has
hair growin’ on his ’ocks” —— “I don't doubt
it,’’ exploded the sorely harassed official,
“but I’m not interested in his 'ocks, nor his
ass, nor in anything that is his —take three
catalogues and go.’’ And the man from
Scotland went.
Hs * 4* *
“Murkah”: “Shock” (B. 23/4/’3O) has
peculiar ideas of horse-power, which is a
rate, not an amount, of energy. For instance.
Major Segrave’s 1000-h.p. car, in its record-
breaking dash of four miles in one minute,
remained 1000 . h.p. throughout. Using
“Shock’s” formula it would be necessary to
divide the minute by 60 to discover its
horse-power per second, which would indi-
cate under 17 h.p., hardly enough to move
the car. I gave my previous figure of 40,000
h.p. on an hourly basis. At a conservative
estimate the actual energy of a mile-long
flash is 1,600,000,000,000 h.p., concentrated
in one fleeting instant. An average electric-
lighted house has its lights on four hours daily,
representing one-third h.p. Could the 40,000
horsepower-hour of the lightning flash be
harnessed it would suffice to light such a
lioush for 120,000 hours, or 30,000 days—
nearly a century.
:fc ❖ * ❖
“J.C.” : The quantity of electricity involved
in a lightning flash is extraordinarily small,
of the order of about 40 coulombs on the
average. This amount of electricity passes
through the starter of a car in something
slightly over a second, through a 60-c.p.
60-watt lamp in a trifle under three minutes,
and through a* sewing-machine motor prob-
ably in about a minute. It is not sufficient
to convert a drop of water into its consti-
tuent hydrogen and oxygen. But the energy
of the flash, due to the intense voltages, is
enormous. The voltages rise to as pinch as
l, volts, and the corresponding
energy of the flash is then about 20,000.000
joules. Now if a 2-ton car travelling at 300
m. is stopped suddenly in full career about
2,000,000 joules are dissipated, so that it
would take about 10,000 such cars to pro-
duce the same effect as the lightning flash.
The single flash lasts on the average for
a four-hundredth part of a second, and
for 40 coulombs to be tipped off in this time
the current must be 16,000 amps, and it is
the passage of this current which produces
the destructive effects. For the fraction of
a second the flash is working it is working
at approximately the rate of 100,000,000,000-
h.p. Incidentally, there are in progress
in the world at any instant approximately
2000 thunderstorms, and between them they
manage to send into the earth per medium of
flashes close on 1000 amps, continually.
Some idea of the extraordinary voltages
encountered in thunderstorms may be ob-
tained from the fact that to cage half a
million volts in a laboratory requires a
fairly large room to prevent flash-overs to
the walls, etc.; a million needs a much
larger space, while for five millions a building
the size of a cathedral is necessary. This
is for air insulation; U.S.A. investigators
claim to ha<ve produced five millions in oil
under pressure.
* * * *
“Sam Ling”: I , submit respectfully, as
a citizen of a great nation that is inexor-
ably moral, but which has suffered much
through attempts to pla*nt upon it an alien
philosophy which confuses morality with
expediency and virtue with riches, a short
observation made by Kiahg Ivang-Hu, who
is between two worlds. He teaches the science
of the new to the sons of the old. and in the
University of Nanking he adapts liis teach-
ing accordingly. He says (here I skip much
that ha*s been said by your great >S:im Smiles,
Abe Lincoln and Moses) that the fighting
instinct is valuable and inextinguishable,
but it should be turned to the conquest of
the inner devil. To escape from that devil
we must seek victory in “literary or artistic
contests, or muscular and physical training.”
One reason, or two reasons if you wish it,
why my people look upon Australia as a
land where dreams come true.
:!: * * *
“Mundowie” : I met an old fellow trudging
along a Bourke (N.S.W.) road with a
gingham over his head, a fly-veil over his.
face and a water-bag in his hand, smoking his
pipe with evident enjoyment and admiring
the scenery. Behind him followed a big
dog carrying a pack, looking a.s if the
scenery bored him. When the traveller do
luxe reached his camping-place he at once
unloaded the pack, and a moment later he
said, “Now, then, Jack, don’t sit there
scratchin’ yourself; get the wood.” And
while his owner got a billy of water from
the creek, Jack fetched sticks for the fire.
OLD BILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old Bill knew more than most coves do-—-I
often ’eard ’im say
“If I ’ad charge o’ this ’ere joint I’d make
the darn place pay.
The man they’ve got ain’t worth ’is oats;
they need a chap like me.
If I’d a chance to straighten things you’d
soon see wot you’d see.
“Them cattle that ’e bought las’ iveek an’
paid for through ’is nose—
I wouldn’t give a minute’s thought to flamin’
crocks like those.
That windmill that ’e’s just ’ad built is
chucked up any’ow.
It’s no use givin’ ’im advice —’e’s such a
’eadstrong cow.
“Still we learn by mistakes, me lad, an’
’e’ll learn some day, too.
’E’U ’ave to come down orf ’is ’orse before
this drought is through.
The cocksure coot is bound to slip. I should
be in ’is place,
The way ’e’s muddlin’ things out ’ere is
just a damn disgrace.”
Old Bill knew more than most coves do—
but wot ’e didn’t tell
Was ’ow ’e owned a station once an’ messed
things up like ’ell.
An’ ’ere ’e is at fifty-eight, a blessed rollin’-
stone,
Wantin’ to run another place ’oo fooled away
’is own!
VICTORIA.
P. T. F.


Ate uo’u
For complete comfort and
freedom you need Denyer’s
Elastic Truss, with its patent
water-pad. Write for free
pamphlet.
Single, 30/-; Double, 407-
Trusses also made to order.
mmm
DENYER BROS.,
Dept. 1, 267 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
(If unable to call, post your order.')
Accommodation
160.
Central,
Comfortable,
Convenient,
6 Mts. G.P.O.
Excellent
Cuisine.
Billiards,
Daneinsr
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TARIFF:
Weekly,
£3/3/- to
£4/4/-
Daily,
11/6 to 12/6.
Room & B’fast,
8/6 to 9/6
FL2O&4
F 3575
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
The World’s largest Commercial Forestry Co.
Subscribed Share Capital £240,619
Bonds Subscribed exceed . £3,400,000
Funds lodged with Trustees exceed £450,000
(Including over £250,000 invested in Australian Government Securities.)
Area planted Approx. 120,000 acres
Bankers Bank of New Zealand and their Agents
Head Office Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney
Sole Brokers Smith Wylie & Co., Ltd.
Branches: Throughout Australia, New Zealand and the Federated Malay States. London, Bombay,
Java, Hong Kong and Shanghai.
y
y-'C'T'
The
Rabbit
may have good cause for
dejection owing to the
label he sees. But the
Skin
Owner
has
a different viewpoint. He wants top values for his
consignments. He knows that the use of a Winch-
combe Carson label results in the realisation of that
objective. For highest market prices
CONSIGN RABBIT, FOX AND OTHER SKINS TO
WINGHCOMBE,CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Winchcombe House* or 99*101 Easrlc St.*
Bridge St., Sydney, Brisbane.
“Homfrey Beale”: The work of abo.
authors of songs and corroborees lias never
received any but the scantiest attention from
white folk. Nearly every tribe had its chief
song and corroboree builder, with many
understudies; and great was the rivalry
between them, and great and ever-present the
fear of the chief poet and playwright that
he would be supplanted by some young black
Bernard Shaw or Rod Quinn. This often
occurred, especially when one of the minor
bards had the luck to be visited by the divine
afflatus on the occasion of a chief’s coup in
war or hunting, and produced an extra toady-
some psean. Thereafter the deposed one was
subjected to verbal indignities as great as
the laudations that had previously been
showered on him, as punishment for having
failed to appreciate the virtues and godlike
prowess of the chief, such indignities taking
the form of lampoons by the newly-elected,
inspired by the slighted chief. Most of the
A THOROUGH WORKMAN.
MRS. MAGGS: “Wot excuse does he make fer not lookin’ fer a
job?”
MRS. DAGGS: “All of ’em.”
tribal lays concerned hunting or battle
feats, but “passion in the guise of love,” to
quote T. B. Clegg’s phrase, formed the theme
of quite a few, while derisive and ribald
stanzas concerning the clubbing of faithless
wives and their paramours (especially if
the paramours were of another tribe) were
common. Hymns, both laudatory and placa-
tory, though scarcer, were not uncommon,
and were yelled to the stars by the whole
WHAT ELSE WOULD HE BE DOING?
JIMMY (watching new speed-boat): “What that quick-pfeller doin’, Flourbag?”
FLOURBAG: “Mine tinkit that pfeller musterin’ fish.”
tribe in unison when some untoward inci-
dent caused them to fear the presence of
malicious spirits, or when battle with another
tribe was impending. Some of the corro-
borees were of a revue nature, others touched
on melodrama, and a few rose almost to the
dignity of grand opera.
* Si *
“Leo Lear”: “Wandi” lately named our
feathered giants; now for the midgets.
But for his extraordinary tail the emu-
wren would be our tiniest bird; the
body of this tussock-dweller would almost
fit into a tobacco
pipe. His five
long, thin tail
feathers make him
a seven - incher.
Only half his size,
tail in, is the
dainty spotted dia-
mond-bird, who in
a contrary spirit
descends be-
low earth to nest
by making a tun-
nel in a creek
bank. He is found
only in Australia.
A fraction longer
is another treetop
dweller, the bright
scarlet mistletoe-
bir d, responsible
for the spread
from tree to tree
of the parasite
after which he is
named; then we
have three tits, or
tit-war,biers, each
about inches—
the short-billed
tree-tit, the yellow
tit (he builds a
nest of two storeys,
occupying only the
lower one for bonus
purposes) and the
s triped tit or
“speckled Jack,”
who lays a beauti-
ful chocolate-
colored egg. . And
we mustn’t forget
the useful brown
fly-eater, under
four inches and a
great garden lover.
In N.Q. they have
the sunbirds, flecks
of color that flut-
ter round hibiscus
and flame trees. Nearly all our smallest
birds are tree-top dwellers and brightly
plumaged. “Wandi’s” giants are mostly the
opposite.
“Toggle”: In the good old days when bul-
locks had to work for their living I saw
a waggon loaded with wool bogged to the
hub at Milo (Q.) shed. One team couldn’t
budge it, and though the assembled experts
reckoned that two teams could and should,
two teams, hitched abreast, didn’t. There
were no more bullocks, but a youngster there
had a team of goats that earned him pocket
money hauling water to the shed; and while
the bullockies stood, profane and disconsolate,
the kid brought up his string of hornies and
hitched them to the axle. “One more go,” he
urged, “and I bet we shift her.” One more
heave, a crackle of whips, and a straining
of muscles and the waggon rolled trium-
phantly out of the mud. But it was
many a month, the old men said, before the
bullocks forgot the flaming shame of it.
* * * *
“Scram”; “Pick” (B. »/4/’3O) is astray
about Brer Rabbit’s home and habits. Does
never, rear their young in the communal
dwelling. They seek seclusion not only from
their natural enemies, but
from their own kind, as they
know that if hubby or any
other buck finds the babies
he will vary his diet with a
little meat. Does them-
selves, in captivity at least,
often eat their young if they
are interfered with. Tin:
breeding burrow is a shallow
tunnel from two to three
feet long. The end is
widened into a fairly large
chamber to hold up to a
dozen bunnies as they grow.
The nest itself is made of
dry grass and straw, and is
lined with mum’s own fur.
She tears it out in mouth-
fuls wherever she can reach
it. The fur works through
the grass, and by the time
the babies are reared the
nest is like a thick woven
mat. Mum never stays with
her brood. She covers them
completely over in the nest
and disguises the entrance
by scraping dirt up around
it.- In a fallow paddock this
camouflage is very effective.
She comes back periodically,
but never stays longer than
to feed the nippers. At two
weeks old they are well
furred and at three weeks
they come out of the nest.
From this stage the entrance
is left open, and the bun-
nies pick about outside, run-
ning in at the first sign of
danger. Mum comes back to feed them until
about the fifth week, when she deserts them
for good.
* ❖ * .J;
“Pick”: The snow-gum, a stunted but
thick-set vegetable growing on the slopes
of Kosciusko, over the hills of Iviandra and
along the ridges of Tumbarumba (N.S.W.),
is the toughest-fibred of the Australian
eucalypts. Without fear of a break, its
twigs may be tied into granny knots, and
splinters stripped ribbon-like from its barrel
may be twisted or plaited into ropes. So
gnarled and curly, though, do the trunks and
limbs become in bowing to the storms of the
region that only rarely can a foot length .of
the wood be procured that will split. Snow-
gum makes the best of mauls, and is excellent
for wheel-hubs and short-length handles,.but
is not much used for either purpose outside
the localities where it grows.
«J* Jji $
“Yarri”: Dalby (Q.) used to have a
periodical “scalp day.” Animals regarded
by farmers as pests
were being slaughtered
in great numbers, and
the officials found it
convenient to set apart
a day to receive the
scalps. The reception
was held in a paddock
well stocked with fire-
wood, and occupied
nearly the whole day.
Scalpers, white and
black, came from all
quarters, carrying kan-
garoo, wallaby and
dingo scalps, and
crows’ and hawks’
heads, in carts and
waggonettes, on pack-
horses and in bags on
their backs. Officials
counted and paid for
them, and others con-
signed them to big log
fires that were kept
burning near by.
Crowds gathered to
witness the proceed-
ings. which included
family picnics and a
programme of sports. At night the hunters
mustered in town, where their cheques made
business hum.
* * * :i:
“Bob P.”: Woolbales told Jacky to ride
around portion of the boundary fence, and
on his way home to muster the sheep in the
woolshed paddock, a«nd to turn them into the
one adjoining. Jacky did the first part of his
job, but clean forgot about shifting the sheep.
He was back at the hut and had let his
horse go when he encountered Woolbales,
who was in none too sweet a* humor. “Did
you muster the sheep in the woolshed pad-
dock?” he inquired. “Yes, Boss,” replied
Jacky, “bin turn ’em into next paddock.”
Half an hour later he was resaddling his
THE SLIPPERY MALE.
DAPH : “Did you do any fishing in Tasmania?”
DULCE: “Rather! I caught one that high; hut he got
away!”
horse, with the intention of secretly com-
pleting his work, when Woolbales reappeared
and demanded to know where he was going.
“Bin go longa woolshed paddock, put it
sheep out,” said Jacky. “But, damn it all,
man,” exploded Woolbales, “didn’t you just,
tell me you’d done it?” “Yes, Boss,” replied
Jacky, “but I bin get such a plurry liar
lately I can’t always believe meself.”
THE STOCK CIGAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Beside a patch of scalded road
That skirts the stock-route tank,
Where teamsters always take their load
Around the culvert-bank,
A lone belar grows stark upright
Above the box-tree scrub;
’Tis all that’s left to mark the site
Of Teddy Regan’s pub.
A meeting-place it used to be
In bumper days of yore
Of all the bush fraternity
For fifty years or more.
When sheds cut out a thirsty mob
Would seethe into the bar,
And do their best to make a job
Of Regan’s booze bazaar.
But drovers out there on the plains
Put Regan down- as mean,
Compared his shouts to summer rains—
Light, few and far between.
They said he never took a drink,
But picked a “best” cigar,
One made of wood, they seem to think,
Which never left the bar.
To peoples’ palaces as well
As other swanky joints
This tin-roofed pub ’twixt H’ay and Hell
Could show a load of points;
It never dolled its bill of fare,
Its bar was never closed ;
A bloke could snore-off anywhere
He either fell or dozed.
Now old hands when they pass the place
Look sideways at the tree
That stands where shicker flowed apace
In many a bushman’s spree.
No other signs to-day remain
Except the lone belar
Which grew, the humorists explain,
From Regan’s stock cigar!
N.S.W.
FRED AARONS.


EIGHT-DAY TOURS
from Sydney to
MT. BUFFALO
NATIONAL PARK.
“The finest holiday resort in
Australia.”
£l4/17/-
covers all travel costs and
accommodation tariff for May
and June.
Book now at the
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
Martin Place, Sydney;
or
Melbourne Tour Reservations,
Government Tourist Bureau,
Melbourne.
WOOL’S UP 10%
THE outstanding features are that wools in
good condition and high quality are in the
strongest demand.
The constant application of Vita - Lick ensures
good gowth and condition.
VITA-LICK LIMITED
Stock Lick Specialists
107 KENT STREET, SYDNEY
Posted
FREE
Established
over 80
Years.
c,o£
oC.'A
I
Our 1930
Publication.
The Finest
SEED AND PLANT
CATALOGUE
in Australasia,
Everything for the Farm,
Garden, and Orchard.
PTY.
LTD.
LAW SOMNER
Seed Merchants and Nurserymen
BLOCK PLACE, MELBOURNE, C.l.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
SBPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
WHY NOT A STANDARD SUPER.?
“R. K. Deea” : The value of super, depends
on its content of water-soluble phosphoric
acid. The grade used in Australia for cereal
culture is the highest in the world, because
the Nauru, Ocean and Christmas Islands
deposits of rock phosphate, from which the
fertiliser is manufactured, are in quality un-
excelled.
Until approximately 10 years ago the grade
of super, supplied to our farmers was known
as No. 1 and 20 per cent. Round about 1900
a still lower grade—No. 2, 17 per cent.—was
available. No. 1, which contained 17 per
cent, water-soluble phosphoric acid, was for
the most part manufactured in Australia;
No. 2, containing 14 per cent, water-soluble
phosphoric acid, was all imported. To-day
these grades are unprocurable. We have
instead 22 per cent., which contains 20.5 per
cent, of water-soluble phosphoric acid, and
24 per cent., which is said to contain 22 per
cent, of its phosphoric acid in the water
soluble condition • prices are £4 15s. and £5
per ton respectively.
I have yet to be convinced —in practice, of
course, for the theory is quite clear —that
the. 24 per cent, super, at £5 is a better pro-
position than the 22 per cent, at £4 15s. And,
along with a lot of others, I am sorry there
is none of the old-time 20 per cent, avail-
able at £4 10s. a ton or less.
In 1904 I saw the 17 and 20 per cents,
tried one against the other. During growth
there was no discernible difference in yield.
There was a little, but it would have required
a professor of mathematics to prove the 20
per cent, a winner. The dressing was at the
rate of 561 b. per acre in each case and the
difference in the soluble phosphoric acid
applied represented 2|oz. per square chain
of soil—hardly 21b. per acre. A hundred-
weight dressing of the 20, 22 and 24 per cent.,
adds 19, 23 and 24.5 pounds respectively of
water-soluble phosphoric acid per acre of
soil, which means a maximum difference of
541 b. per acre—about a dozen good handfuls.
In the case of the two supers, now on the
market, the difference in the amount of sol-
uble phosphoric acid applied per acre would
be 141 b. Would this make any difference to
the yield?
The freight bogey may be dismissed. If
there is no difference in the yield, the in-
creased freight is offset by the reduction in
price—with a bit to the good in most cases.
Further, if freight is the trouble, why not
use triple (50 per cent.) super.? This would
be manufactured if it could be sold.
I believe super, should be regarded as a
stimulant to help the germinating grain over
a critical period, as a cow suckles her calf,
but the grain (or calf) can only utilise a
given quantity of the stimulant until it is
able to fend for itself. Certain soils destroy
or revert water-soluble phosphoric acid more
quickly than others, but in all cases the rever-
sion to insoluble phosphates takes place
quickly, particularly after rain, so that the
amount of soluble phosphates available to the
young plants after a few weeks of normal
weather is but a quarter of the amount
applied. What difference, then, whether the
super, be 20, 22 or 24 per cent.? Another
point is that in the days of the lower-grade
supers, there was not the present-day bag-
burning or destruction; and bags are an
imported (and important) item.
Let us have a standard 20 per cent, super,
at a standard price !
SHOULD SECOND-HAND BAGS BE
USED?
“Essohess” : Years ago, when dumping was
necessary and the wheat had to be kept
for months, it was essential to use new
bags; one or two weak bags meant the
collapse of the stack. But since' the new
agreement came into being, Queensland mills
have to provide storage, or take possession
as the wheat is tendered by growers. Hence,
some of us contend, there is no need to insist
on new bags being used; second-hand bags
would serve the purpose just as well.
Queensland’s wheat crop runs into about
four million bushels. That means about
1,300,000 sacks. Assuming that new bags,
delivered to growers, will cost 12s. per doz.
and that secondliands suitable for the pur-
pose could be bought at 75., there would be
a direct saving to the growers of £27,083
as the difference in price. More than double
that amount will have to be remitted to
India if the regulation is not withdrawn.
As a matter of fact, second-hand bags are
. a drug on the market, and bag dealers all
over Australia would welcome some outlet
for their surplus holdings.
LABOR COSTS OP SHEEP AND
CATTLE.
“Buckwong”: The return of wool prices
to a level which reduces sheep values below'
cattle values brings another aspect of the
matter up for reconsideraticffi. During the
years of high prices graziers had no need
to worry about the much greater amount of
labor necessary for the proper management
of sheep. But they may no longer overlook
the fact that in the damper districts, at
any rate, sheep need at least ten times the
attention that cattle do.
Nor does the debiting of that tenfold labor
charge exhaust the case against Ovis, as
compared with Bovis. After the best that
management can do has been done a much
greater loss will have to be accepted in
those wetter districts to which my remarks
apply. There the case calls for mustering,
shearing, branding, dipping; drenching for
worms, drenching for fluke, foot-rotting
(which may last the whole year round) ;
watching, clipping and dressing for flies (this
will average four months in the 12) ; watch-
ing the lambing and dressing for flies among
the lambing ewes; marking the lambs and
watching and dressing for flies among them.
Then you have to pay 200 per cent, more
for shearing than you did a few years ago.
A fascinating programme.
My experience leads me to believe that
1000 head of breeding sheep require the time
of one man, and a painstaking man at that,
the whole year round. While taking 200
cattle as the grazing equivalent of a thou-
sand sheep, a fortnight’s attention in the
year will be found ample for beeves. That
difference in time required should enable our
painstaking man to improve his property; or,
if that is not required, to cultivate and
take off 100 acres of crop, which, in the dis-
tricts of good rainfall which we are con •
sidering, should mean an extra £4OO of gross
income.
Of course the sheepman will come back
with the contention that cattle values will
soon be on a par with those of sheep. Still,
our chief pundits in the produce world con-
sider that the prospects for beef in the
world are far ahead of those for mutton.
And certainly wool values were never so
dicky in .historic times. It is not merely
curtailment of public purchasing power nor
the great exploitation of synthetic substi-
tutes that we have to allow for; it is
the world-wide cult of semi-nudity besides.
There are sheep-owners who confess to fears
that the fleece will become a liability instead
of an asset to flock-owners. Without going
quite so far as that, I feel that, so far as
we can glimpse the future, sheep are not
going to repay their enormously higher labor-
costs where cattle will thrive.
IN PRAISE OF THE KURRAJONG.
“U. Murray” : It would not be amiss for
the Council of Scientific Research to switch
off its dizzy chase of doodle-bugs a*nd devote
some study to the kurrajong—-a greatly
neglected subject. It would be a great thing
for Australia if we could cover a fair per-
centage of our dry country with this tree.
About five per cent, of any grazing area
planted with full-grown kurrajongs would
ca*rry the stock through any drought,
The trouble is slowness of growth in the
early years of the tree; when it has once
grown up it will reclothe itself after lopping
more quickly than most fodder-trees. Yet a
’third of a century since a man in Wagga
took me out to see a kurrajong which lie had
planted in his orchard and given the same
cultivation as his fruit trees. In less than
three years from the planting of the seed
it stood 20 feet high, with a well furnished
top and a circumference of three feet at
the butt. This was a growth equal to that of
fully 50 years of the self-sown a*nd uncared
for specimens in the bush. Ever since I
have been asking myself whether a plantation
of kurrajongs consistently cultivated on any
ordinary hillside would not become more
valuable than any lucerne paddock.
Long afterwards, in the mountainops
country behind Walwa (Vic.), I saw another
remarkable object-lesson concerning this tree.
During a dry summer a few years previously
a settler had lopped some kurrajongs in a
precipitous gorge behind his paddocks.
A cloudburst, dropping soon afterwards on
this spot, had piled loppings, stones and
sand against a netting fence below. Here
those branches were rooted and growing,
higgledy-piggledy—some right-end up, some
wrong—-in the mass of debris behind the
fence. This also seemed to offer a very
manifest hint.
I believe that the first man interested
enough to make a plantation and give it
proper care and cultivation will make his-
tory, arboricultural history, for his country,
and achieve for himself something more profit-
able than any orchard has ever been. Beauty,
moreover, will be promoted as well as wealth.
THE USEFUL BAMBOO.
“Hiroshi” : I lived a good many years in
Japan and other Asiatic countries where the
bamboo is regarded as a necessity. If only
a few of its manifold uses were realised there
would be no Australian station or farm with
a patch of suitable soil —and bamboo is not
hard to please in that respect—which would
be without a small plantation.
Bamboo is easily planted, grows rapidly
up to 30 or 40 feef, and requires no par-
ticular attention beyond strutting the out-
line of the plantation (it can be done by
horizontal saplings upon props) to keep the
outside bamboos vertical; the inside growth
then looks after its own uprightness.
It makes home-grown water-pipes which
must be the cheapest in the world. They will
carry very high pressure, can be buried or
exposed upon the surface, and will in either
case last many years.
When the bamboo is first cut, the dia-
phragms at the joints are bumped out by a
metal disc on the end of a long iron rod.
.Juncture of the bamboos in a lino of pipes
requires no skill whatever. Bamboos of the
same age from the same plantation are
practically of one diameter where cut at
the same height from the ground. All that is
necessary is to auger a hole of similar diameter
through a billet of wood of any shape, insert
the end of one bamboo into the hole, drive
the billet upon it, and then drive the other
bamboo into the other end of the hole.
Slight divergence in diameter of the ends
of two bamboos, which occasionally occurs,
can be quickly put right with a spokeshave.
This must be done when the bamboo is green;
when it has dried out shaving down is a
difficult matter .for anyone but an expert.
The auger holes can be bored straight
through the connecting billet, or from each
side and at widely divergent angles, say, to
carry the pipes over a rise. Several branches
can be led off from the same billet so long as
the holes communicate with the main pipe,
A bamboo about four inches in diameter
when split lengthwise through the middle and
the diaphragms removed makes effective gut-
tering for outbuildings, and, with the dia-
phragms in, excellent water-troughs for fowls,
etc. Water-dippers, balers and feed-measures
are easily made by sawing off a section below
two joints, the lower joint forming a water-
tight bottom. Feed-racks, fence-framings for
poultry-yards and wind-breaks are expedi-
tiously made. And it is hardly necessary to
mention that relatively thin bamboo makes
as good a handle as' could be wished for
rakes, brooms and such like.
An important virtue lies in the fact that
it will never be necessary to include the
bamboo in the schedule of noxious weeds.
HOW TO CONTROL BRACKEN.
“Tumbe Munda”: Bracken-fern is still
spreading in many parts of Australia. The
greatest menace is to good country which
fringes poor land. As regards methods of
control, the fernhook has been useful on
small patches, but cost of labor is a draw-
back. Cultivation has also been tried. The
fern will be checked during the period of
intense cultivation, but let (the soil lie
fallow for a year and you will see the
fronds poking through the ground again.
In other years there was a craze for
putting pigs on bracken. A friend of mine
succumbed to it, fenced off a block, bought
pigs (and grain) and turned them on to the
ferns. They stirred that sand to the depth
of their bodies and kept stirring it. The
pigs were kept about five years. During that
time there was not a sign of fern, but in
another year or two the fern was back again.
It had crept in from outside.
One thing bracken does not like is
bruising. In open level country a monthly
rolling is a good check. The method giving
least trouble is to get the stock to trample
the ground. This involves growing feed in
the bracken, and you must first remove bunny
and wire net so that he cannot return; the
rabbit is responsible for much of the bracken
spread. Now give a good dressing of
super., and if there is any grass in your
climate that will give a good bulk of feed
sow some of it. There will then be feed
to attract the stock, and control has com-
menced. A rolling or two where possible
to assist the stock will be a big help.
GIVING LAND A SPELL.
“Te Aroha”: Biblical history teaches us
that land should be rested every seven
years. How often do we small farmers give
our land a rest?
A start could be made by cutting that
40-a<cre paddock into two 20-acre paddocks.
That wouldn’t require much capital exp
diture, more especially if you have ti
on your property tp cut into posts,
on using one of the newly created padcioc*
for grazing. Close the other up and &vv
it a good discing and cross-discing; til
a tine-harrowing. You can’t tear it aDo
too much. After that apply a liberal top-
dressing, and mix some grass- and ciover-
seed in the fertiliser. Another touch ol tnc
tine-harrows and the job is finished.
Now forget about the treated paddock toi
a couple of months. By that time if it is
not the best pasture on your farm, well,
I’m going to the next war.
OHANEZ GRAPES FOR EXPORT.
‘7346”: The Ohanez (or Almeria) is a
white grape, which grows well in arid lands
served by irrigation, and also in districts
such as the Upper Swan, Westralia. The
crop, being late and tough of skin, can be
landed in places where no other grapes are
then on the market. Maorilaud is a good
customer for the irrigation-area product;
London pays excellent prices for the West-
ralian article.
A difficulty facing M.I.A. gvowers is that
the crop is subject to destruction by autumn
rains. The tough skin notwithstanding,
rain will cause a small split in each berry,
making the crop unsuitable for export, or
indeed for any kind of transport.
In Spain this variety is grown with vines
widely apart and on a high trellis —on the
so-called umbrella principle in short; har-
vesting and spraying are done from under-
neath. On the M.I.A. the Ohanez has for
the most part been planted in closer forma-
tion and on a low trellis, much the same as
weaker-growing varieties which receive their
treatment from the side. This tends to up-
set the habit of the Ohanez, which requires
room for its prolific cane growth and free
range of air underneath the foliage : —an
important factor in combating black spot
and other diseases in damp weather. In at
least two local cases, however, the variety
lias been planted as a verandah trellis vine.
Result, 2cwt. of grapes per vine and notable
freedom from disease.
I have heard that a strain is grown in
California which resists rain. Unless this
strain can be introduced in our irrigation dis-
tricts, it would appear more profitable to
plant only with wide spacings, say 20ft. x
20ft., with a high trellis.
Ohanez grapes have for at least two
centuries been packed in cork dust by Spanish
growers for the English market. The same
method of packing is resorted to in Aus-
tralia, but so far consignments from our
irrigation areas have not opened up in good
condition after sea journeys to countries
remoter than Maoriland.
STRAWBERRIES.
“G.H.W.”: All the strawberry plants
should bo put out before the end of May.
Light sandy soil is the best, provided it is
well balanced with organic matter. An
abundant water supply is necessary. I pre-
fer overhead sprinklers.
Plant four abreast, with plants 15 inches
apart. Spread the roots well and firm them
in, leaving the crown just level with the
ground. Keep plants in a bucket of water
whilst at work and cut away about one-
third of the fibres.
Always plant two kinds or more, so that
pollination will be provided for, and keep
the beds well up. A pound of blood and
bone to each 20 plants will stick to them
until spring cultivation is necessary. Keep
weeds down and apply another dressing of
blood and bone in early spring; then mulch
with straw or pine needles to conserve mois-
ture and keep the berries clean. No other
fertilising is necessary, but weeds, must be
scrupulously eradicated.
When slugs and snails appear, a mixture of
lime and tobacco dust will keep them in
check. Water regularly to ensure a full crop.
CABBAGES AND CAULIFLOWERS.
“Disc Harrow” : The only thing that will
keep cabbages and cauliflowers really clean
is lime and tobacco dust, in the proportion
of two of lime to one of the dust. I’m assum-
ing that they have been given a good start
by dipping in arsenate of lead, which is
easily done when the tops and bottoms are
clipped. Three applications of the mixture
may be necessary, but they are well worth it.
Unless you are given a perfectly calm
day, mix in the shed; the stuff is very light
and blows easily. Use a smooth floor and
a big shovel. Give the first dressing before
the heart forms, and others as required.
Carefulness pays here. Don’t simply let it
float on, but dust it on hard, and throw it
well down into the heart. When leaves are
folded over, indicating blight, fold them back
and smother the pest. It may sound slow
work, but the habit of thoroughness is soon
formed, and then you can do thousands a day.
The only thing to guard against is getting
the mixture on cauliflower heads during the
later stages. It is apt to leave a brown stain,
which brings the price down. If a late
attack must be fought plain lime is safer.
(Continued on page 25.)


5*
i
4
iK
MS
1
♦
II
M
. m
i
fcsP-
I
li
4*
ssss
H
►
«£*
-:
...
K
«ggg|
>:•;&. j|MmAgaYw4
:... ' ;
m
Sii
AwwiWXW
Ms*i
M
wmm
■m
■ • ■• - ■•■•'«■
zSSs&m
m
m
m
*®
m
m
:::
M
m
m
«$$
if
ii
9ss?»i2>M<^
II
ftjft :■ >
cs
0
A special
"Cyclone”
Fence
Strainer
loaned
FREE OF
CHARQE.
ES, Bill, it’s a ‘Cyclone’ Ring-Lock Fence, that’s
why! ”
Take a close look at the piece you’ve got in
your hand; see how stiff and solid those
uprights are/’
‘‘l’ll guarantee that the animal who could lift up that
fence and scramble under hasn’t been born yet!”
notice how firmly those ‘Cyclone’ Ring-Locks
hold the uprights to the line wires; they’re grinned like
a vice and I’ll bet you can’t move them.”
Listen, Bill, ‘Cyclone’ Ring-Lock Fence actually costs less
than a plain wire fence with droppers; you can strain
chains of complete fence in one shot, and you only
need 3 posts to the chain and two holes to the post—
Flow’s that for easy labour!”
“Remember this, too, that ‘Cyclone’ Ring-Lock Fence is
the only fence made from HARD-DRAWN galvanised
steel wire, and is guaranteed not to stretch out or sag.”
You re right, Jim, they’re a dashed good fence—so
good that I reckon I’ll order my lot to-dav.”
sPoints to Know
Why
Cyclone Ring*Lock
Fences are Better.
!• —Cheaper and more effec-
tive than a plain wire
fence with Droppers.
2. Offer tremendous resist*
ance and high breaking
strain.
3. Stiff uprights will not
bend.
4. Immovable Ring*Locks
hold uprights to the line
wires in a vice-like grip.
5. —When erected, stay taut
and firm; will not sag
or stretch out.
“Cyclone” Ring-Lock
Fence is sold in 5-chain
rolls ready to erect. It
is already built for you,
and five chains of com-
plete fence can be
strained up in one easy
operation.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
Cyclone Fence and Gate Co. Pty. Ltd.,
189 William Street, Melbourne;
24 Jamieson St., Sydney; Pirie St., Adelaide.
icnmn
STIFF
STAY
farm fences
To CYCLONE FENCE & GATE CO.
PTY. LTD.,
Please send me by return mail your
free illustrated and priced Catalogue
°f ” Cyclone” Metal Qates and Ring-
Lock Fences.
Name
4
Address
i.F.2.
v»\
*» *sr
ftS&SP*
“Cyclone” [6 lines 28 high] Sheep and Small
Lamb Proof Fence.
(Shown Above)
This Fence is made in two weights:
Style 6HA, 10 gauge throughout £27/10/0 per mile; 8/* per chain.
Style 6LA, top and bottom wires 10 gauge, uprights .md intermediate
wires, 11 gauge £25/10/0 per mile; 7/- per chain.
Orders for less than half a mile charged at chain rates.


now isn't that
marvellous /
a \Y/H° have thought that one new
VV valve could have made such a difference?
I used to think it wasn’t possible to interchange
different makes of valves, but I find that by
substituting an Osram I can always improve
reception.
“I’ve just fitted an Osram MHL4 Valve . . .
listen to the result.. now, isn’t that marvellous?
I must fit Osram all through, straightaway.”
If you cannot obtain MHL4 or any other
Osram Valve you need, it will be sent direct,
safe delivery guaranteed. Ask for “The Osram
Valve Guide’ ’ — a helpful booklet free on request
r ”
L •
/
M.HL4.
A radio frequency or audio
frequency amplifying valve,
and is also recommended for
use as a detector valve,
SPECIFICATIONS:
Filament Volts 4.0
Fil. Current 1.0 amps, approx.
Plate Volts 200 (max.)
Amplification Factor .. .. 16
Impedance 8,000 ohms.
Normal Slope .. 2.0 ma/volts
Equivalent .. ~ ~ .. E 415
‘jlteMew
Made in England
Advertisement of the British General Electric Co. Ltd.
Head Office & Public Showrooms: 104-114 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Branch Offices and Public Showrooms at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth and
N.Z. cities. Sole Agencies at Brisbane and Hobart.
A GOOD LEAD!
Existing members of the
A.M.P. SOCIETY
effected ADDITIONAL ASSURANCES ON
THEIR LIVES in the year 1929
for
£5,810,000.
All Surplus divided ANNUALLY amongst the participating
members.
ASSETS - - £78,000,000
ENQUIRIES INVITED.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
F. T. BRIDGES,
Acting General Manager.
mmm
I
■H
■B MBmi
mm.
m
i
8
:
V
■■
m
mm
mm
11
WMH 1
; ;
M
I ■ vt^
ws
n
TS
118
&&■
g S'-
§j
IS
■ ' ■"■ ■ :'
■ HH
If® ..
■ •ffSjg
WmSm
, »r , ; . , , . ' '
.
II
■HH
:
I m ■
C 56
TVeV e V* f A elW '
° vet a f
ot
t\iese
C&D E ®*W'*‘ jj
wiV i"'
£ &■"
Clyde Batteries for Cars, Radio and Home
Lighting are made by THE CLYDE EN-
GINEERING CO., LTD., GRANVILLE,
N.5.W., largest manufacturers of storage
batteries in Australia. Obtainable from
all garages and radio dealers.
FOR CARS. RADIO & HOME LIGHTING
Clyde Radio
Battery.
BATTERY SALES AND
SERVICE DIVISION,
106-110 Goulbum Street,
Sydney.
Clyde Home
Lighting
Battery.
INTER-STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
QUEENSLAND: The Clyde Engineer-
ing Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: The Clyde Engineering
Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Cornell,
Limited, Adelaide.
WEST. AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun and
Johnstone (W.A.), Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA: W. & G. Gonders Pty., Ltd., Launceston and Hobart
SO-tOB


The lightest, most
flexible riding boot
Elastic sides yielding with every
movement. . . .pliant calf upper fit-
ting snug to the foot. . . .a supple sole
of the best-wearing leather.... all
such features combine to make the
Abbey Riding Boot most comfortable
of its kind. It’s lined throughout with
soft leather. . . .without one raised
seam inside. And the specially
arched upper accommodates the
curve of the instep in a way that
eliminates tightness and strain.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. Specify
width and length, and order, also, a
tin of Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d.), or a compact cleaning outfit
(2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 42/-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 37/6
Sporting Cfatqlogue post free on request.
ABBEY
(Established over 80 years),
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: “Abbey Boots,” Sydney.
PPL 176 _
In Daily Use
over all the world
THOUSANDS of women have come to
regard Cuticura as the true natural aid
to a lovely skin and attractive hands
and hair. Regular daily use of Cuticura
Soap, assisted by Cuticura Ointment
when required, purifies and beautifies
the skin, cleanses the scalp and keeps
the hair live and glossy.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
mmm
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak without Notes, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
Green
Sayers
Remedy
SeaJ
™ R ALL STOMACH WORMS
BLACK DISEASE & FLUKE
The One Remedy Cures All.
0C - Carbon Tetrachloride per scc. dose,
doses to the gallon; about five sheep treated
for about one penny.
INTER-STATE AGENTS:
i\r eW c! koan and Merc. Agency, Rockhampton
Brisbane
Crollin & Co Perth
King Lawless, Ltd . . Auckland, N.Z.
Manufactured by
SAYERS, ALLPORT PROP., LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Glass and Metal Syringes, holding scc. and acting at
Measure and Trenching Syringe, 10/6, post free
Chandler
Ringlock Fencing
7he Original
RINGLOCK FENCING.
D. & W. Chandler Ltd. pioneered
the manufacture of Ringlock Fenc-
ing in Australia, and this has now
superseded all other forms of farm-
fencing. Our Chandler Ringlock
Fencing is recognised as the strong-
est fencing on the market.
Chandler Ringlock Fencing is a
wonderful improvement on the ordi-
nary live- or six-line fence, as it
is a combination of droppers and
laterals. All the wires are crimped,
and the special Ringlock Knot is
formed around the cross wires, thus
making them absolutely non-slip-
pable. The fence is, therefore,
sheep- and cattle-proof.
Style RLS is an ideal sheep or farm
fence. The droppers are 12in.
apart. Five lines spaced from the
bottom 5,6, 7 and 8 inches apart
to a height of 26in. The top and
bottom wires are 10-gauge; the
three other laterals, droppers and
all ringlock knots are 12-gauge gal-
vanised-wire.
Prices:—
5/9
per chain for 5-chain
rolls.
£l9/15/
per mile.
Special heavy Chandler Fencing (10-gauge
throughout). Prices for RLS are 6/3 per
chain for 5-chain rolls, or £22 per mile.
NOTE.—The prices quoted are
strictly cash with order.
We also stock Waratah “Hinged-
joint” Fencing. Send for particulars.
Send for list of the new REDUCED
Prices of other styles.
Manufactured at their Fence and Gate
Factory, Greeves Street, Fitzroy, by
D.gW. CHANDLER LTD.
FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY.
AND AT WARRNAMBOOL, BENDIGO.
HORSHAM, BALLARAT AND PORT-
LAND.
mmmm
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY.
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUM T 9 WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS <T.
Sydney Rep.: H. 0. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
SUTTONS OF READING, ENGLAND
Seedsmen to H.M. the King.
Vegetable and Flower Seeds.
The newest and most improved strains saved from pedigree stocks as well as the best of
t-he standard varieties.
We stock seeds in the original packages, or will obtain for customers any of Sutton s well-
known varieties of flower or garden seeds, or special grass seeds for lawns, golf courses, etc.
Murdoch Bros. Pty., Ltd., Hobart, Tasmania.
EXAMPLE 3 (Continued) . —The transfer of expenses paid and accrued to P. and L.
Account closes off all expense accounts excepting those with balances representing
amounts accrued but unpaid, or. amounts paid in advance. Balances representing
amounts accrued but unpaid are liabilities; those representing payments in advance are
assets. To make up a balance-sheet we must go through the Ledger after the P. and L.
Account has been compiled, and write down a summary of all the balances (including
P. and L. Account), putting debit balances on the right and credit balances on the
left. The only exception is where we offset an asset against a liability, or vice versa,
but the principle .is the same. The Balance-sheet is not ait account, so there aren’t
any postings, etc., to be made to it. It is simply a statement of assets'and liabilities,
including capital and balance of profit (or loss). The totals of each side of the Balance-
sheet must agree. If you have made a profit of £5OO during the year the excess of
assets over liabilities must increase by £5OO.
Observing these principles, M. Middlebrook's Balance-sheet is as follows: —
BALANCE-SHEET, as at June 30, 1929.
LIABILITIES.
Bank Overdraft .. £3OO. 0 0
Interest accrued . 3 10 0
£3o3 10 0
Creditors 11l 0 0
Accrued Expenses:—
Wages £6 0 0
Rent 20 0 0
26 0 0
Capital Account . . £1555 0 0
Add: Profit . . 409 1 8
£1964 1 8
Less: Drawings 260 0 0
1704 1 8
£2144 11 8
ASSETS.
Land, at cost £B5O 0 0
Improvements .. £236 0 0
Less:
Depreciation . 17 14 0
218 6 0
Livestock, at valuation 950 0 0
Unsold Produce 35 10 0
Debtors 40 0 0
Cash in Bank . 44 7 10
„ „ Hand 6 710
£2144 11 S
Assets are written in just as they appear in the Ledger. On the liabilities side, the
interest owing on the overdraft, as per Interest Account, is added to the overdraft
itself in the Balance-sheet. Capital is shown plus the year’s profit, less drawings.
m 6.—Opening Books for a Going Farm.
To start a set of accounts for a farm which has been going for some time, it will be
first of all necessary to make an inventory or valuation of the assets and liabilities.
1 he. excess of assets over liabilities will represent the proprietor’s capital at the
particular date. Valuations of all assets should be made on a conservative basis, and
care should be exercised so that no liabilities are overlooked. Having done this, a list
of the results should be made on the following lines: —
ASSETS.
Land, at cost £760 0 0
Livestock (valuation) 247 0 0
Plant 133 10 0
Improvements, etc. 98 16 0
Unsold Produce, etc . 12 0 0
Debtors 16 16 8
Cash 120 10 2
LIABILITIES - f1388121 °
Creditors (various) £269 14 10
_ CAPITAL £lllB 18 0
lo open the books, Journal entries debiting the assets and crediting capital, and
debiting capital and crediting liabilities, should be made, as follows: —
JOURNAL. Dr. Cr.
Land Account, Dr.
Livestock
Plant v
Improvements
Unsold Produce
Debtors
Cash
To Capital
Being assets of farm at date as per inventory.
Capital Account, Dr.
To Creditors (various)
£7 00 U O
247 0 0
133 10 0
98 16 0
12 0 0
16 16 8
120 10 2
£269 14 10
£l3BB 12 1U
289 14 10
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
( Transferred, from Service Department.)
I propose to pump ivater from a Q’Jand
river in order to water my stock and farm.
(1) Must I secure Government approval? (2)
Would inspection of the site by an official he
necessary? (3) Is a license fee charged? —
6331.
(1) Under the Water Act of 1926 a
license must be obtained to instal a pumping
pla«nt for stock-watering or irrigation pur-
poses. (2) Depends upon circumstances and
what objections, if any, are made by the other
landowners. An inspection is very seldom
necessary. (3) An advertising fee of £1 is
charged, as the receipt of every application
must be advertised, and landowners residing
within five miles of the site of the proposed
plant may lodge objections.
(1) Arc bonuses paid for dingo scalps in
Q’land? (2) In what districts are dingoes
most numerous? (3) What prospects would
there he for a good, bushman getting a living
from shooting or poisoning them? —6329.
(1) A bonus of 15s. per scalp is paid
throughout Queensland. (2) In the Clermont,
Thargomindah, Roma, Gayndah, Cairns, Clon-
curry. Rockhampton and Springsure districts.
(3) Might make a living at it if he com-
bined it with the trapping of marsupials.
(1) When should citrus trees he sprayed?
(2) Is it injurious to water when the trees
are budding and when, the fruit is setting?
—5799.
(1) Dependent on what you are spraying
for. Diseases or pests should be submitted
to the Director of Fruit Culture, Dept, of
Agriculture, Sydney, for diagnosis and recom-
mendation. (2) No they should be kept
supplied with sufficient moisture during blos-
soming and fruit setting-time, mostly Sep-
tember to December.
Recipe for painting the trunks of apple-
trees to prevent rabbits eating the bark? —
6087.
Don’t know of any satisfactory prepara-
tion. Best plan is to put a little wire-netting
around each tree if your fences are not
rabbit-proof.
llow to cure a Border collie sheep-dog
of worms? —6026.
The dog should be starved overnight, and
first thing in the morning he should be given
a capsule consisting of calomel lgr., areca-
nut 10gr., extract of male fern 8 drops.
Immediately following administer one large
tablespoon of castor oil. If necessary repeat
in a fortnight’s time. Cleanse and disin-
fect kennel.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“311”: For tractor ploughing by night use
a hurricane-lamp hung low on the starting
handle. It casts a long black shadow
in the furrow which is easy to steer by.
A carbide or electric light shining straight
into the furrow makes it hard to distinguish
between ploughed and unploughed land.
“Wescocky” : If you haven’t the necessary
power to drag a light set of ha«rrows behind
your combine drill, a jarrah plank will
serve. Get a plank 9in. by 14in. as long as
the.width of your machine'; bolt a length of
chain to each end and hang it behind the
drill. Let fhe plank rest on the ground
with the front edge tilted upward at an
angle of 45 degrees; this will make it
stump-jump. This drag will not level the
ground too much,, but will insure an easy
passage for the binder and harvester when
the ground has hardened in the dry weather.
“J.C.L.”: To poison crows cut a sheep’s
throat and let the blood run into a hole in
the ground about 7in. by 3in. deep, mixing
an ounce of S.A.P. poison with it while it
is trickling in. Stir briskly with a stick
until the blood coagulates. The birds will
eat this and ma<ke for the nearest water.
You will find the bodies there.
“C. Ma”: An ointment for inflammation
of the udder in ewes: Olive oil, 40z.; spirit
of turpentine, 20z.; soft soap, loz.; cam-
phorated spirits of wine and spirits of Harts-
horn, each 2oz. Mix in a marble mortar with
the soap, a little at a time, and then bottle
for use. After milk has been drawn from
the udder, rub in oils twice a day.
“Fysh” : If a calf is unthrifty and scours
is not to blame, worms are probably the
trouble. The calf should be penned and
allowed to miss one feed. At the next feed-
ing-time drench it with loz. turps, in soz.
raw-linseed oil, and allow it to miss another
feed. This drench will expel the worms,
after which the calf should be gradually
brought on to its full feed again.
“Te Aroha” : A paddock constantly graced
and fouled with droppings has little attrac-
tion or. palatability for Strawberry and eo.
Subdivide it; that’s the way to give the
herd a fair chance, with frequent changes of
good clean pasture. It also means a more
uniform and concentrated distribution of
dmppings, with consequent enrichment of the
soil.
“Grouper”: There’s only one satisfactory
way to. remove an a-xe-handle. Get the
blacksmith to make you a punch having a
section of shape corresponding with that of the
axe-eye, and about six or eight inches long.
Have it made a* sliding fit in the smallest
axe-eye. Support axe-head on two blocks,
over a big vyce or anything convenient. I
have driven hundreds of handles out with one
blow of sledge or maul, wedge and all
“T.T.” : “Darken” (B. 26/3/’3O) has chosen
an appropriate pen-name or he wouldn’t
advise flannel for a wick in any sort of lamp
The, wick must be of vegetable fibre, such as
cotton, flax, jute, or a corn-husk, or shaped
Piece of dry cattle chip. With either of
these last a stick is not needed; with the
first group wire is preferable.
“R.X.8.” : Re onion-growing (B. 16/4/’3O).
Protecting the growing plants from wind
is all-important. Once the sprout is broken,
or even bent, the plant is done. The
best method is to build fences of bags.
Opened flour or potato bags will make a
fence 3ft. 6in. to 4ft. in height, and should
be firmly nailed to 3in x 2in. battens. The
fiest results will be had from fencing the
growing crop into squares.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell’’ or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Works foreman, Sydney, knowledge surveying,
drafting, construction, accountancy degree, wants job
on station or with shire council. Wife domestic
duties.—6334.
Young man (19), N.S.W., Hawkesbury Ag. Coll,
diploma, wants job farm or station. Exp. Refs. —
6336.
Young man (18), Q’land, passed Uni. junior exam.,
wants job as tutor, or journalistic work. —6342.
Returned soldier (34), S.A., married, storekeeping
and farming exp., wants job, anywhere.—6324.
Young lady, Q’land, wants work in garage, Bris-
bane, Sydney or Melbourne. —6328.
Melbourne girl, refined, wants position as house-
keeper for two or three gentlemen or professional
couple in or near Sydney.—6326.
Returned soldier, married, knowledge sheep and
general farming, wants position as manager or
working manager-or on shares, Vic. preferred.-—6344.
Two young men, Sydney, want work of any kind.
Fidelity bonds if required.—636o.
Teacher, middle-aged, acquainted with P.N.E.U.
method', wants employment. W.A. preferred. Refs.
—6352.
Man, Q’land, thorough knowledge aerated waters,
cordials and brewing, wants job. Refs.- —6356.
Housekeeper wants position on station, N.S.W.,
Southern Tablelands preferred. Refs. —6345.
Englishman (25), N.S.W., single, 16 months’ exp.,
wants job on station or farm, anywhere.—634B.
Melbourne barrister (24) desires to join staff of
commercial or mercantile house. —6294.
Young man, N.S.W., five years’ exp. mixed farm-
ing, wants permanent job on station. Refs. —6292.
Electrical engineer (40), N.S.W., English diploma,
knowledge mass production and plant efficiency,
wants job, power station or plant maintenance.
Abstainer.—6329.
Gir] (14), Eastern Suburbs, Sydney, wants three
hours’ coaching weekly, Latin and French. —6238.
Governess (Q.) seeks position as governess or
companion, any State. Willing to travel.—623s.
Country woman (Lismore, N.S.W.) wants position
as housekeeper, working-man’s home. Refs. —6260.
Australian (40), fully experienced in sawmill
work, first-class steam and loco, certificates, wants
job in Vic., any capacity. Refs. —6274.
Wanted ex-members of 22nd Battalion, A.1.F., to
send addresses to F. C. Russell, 11 Raleigh-street,
Windsor (Vic.).
To buy Phil May’s Annuals. —6224.
To buy, new or second-hand, “Grocers’ Manual”
and “Adventures of Louis de ltougemont.”—627B.
To exchange correspondence course in short-story
writing for one in freelance journalism.-—6261.
Words of old ballad beginning “Last night there
were four Marys.”—63l9.
Words of “The Day I Rode the Wheel.” —6338.
Information Sought.
. (1) What proportion of the world’s wheat
does Australia produce in average years?
(2) What position does she hold amongst
the wheat-exporting countries of the world?
(3) Would a big crop in Australia have any
material effect on prices in the world’s
markets f—6191.
(1) Australia ranks on the average eighth
among the world’s wheat-producing coun-
tries. Her contribution to the world’s pro-
duction during the past four years amounted
to almost per cent. (2) Fourth. (3)
Yes, in proportion to the Australian per-
centage of supplies in the export markets.
How to protect oysters from (1) mud-
worms, and (2) boring whelks? —6299.
(1) Most prevalent near or below low-tide
mark. Such situations should therefore be
avoided. If cultivation is between tide-
levels, the oysters should be kept off the
bottom. (2) Can only be kept in check by
continually picking over the beds and
destroying them.
(!) Fare from Fremantle to Canada?
(2) How much money must an immigrant
landing in Canada possess? (3) Prospects
of employment on cattle or sheep stations?
(4) Rate of pay for farm- or station-hand?
(5) Best time of the year to go? (6) Many
unemployed in Canada? —5819.
? (1) Col. J. Sclater, Canadian Pacific Rail-
way, 247 George-street, Sydney, can advise
as to fares to any point in Canada. (2) In
the case of a British subject, £3O. (3) Good
in the spring and summer months, com-
mencing in April. (4) Wages for experi-
enced men vary from £5 to £8 per month and
board. Harvesting and threshing wages vary
from 16s. to 30s. per day and board. (5)
In June. (6) More than usual, but this
does not apply so much to farm-workers.
(1) What methods are employed in hunt-
ing crocodiles for skins? (2) What equip-
ment is necessary, and can any other type
Of hunting be followed in conjunction? (3)
In what localities in Australia are croco-
diles found? (4) Best time of the year?
(5) What is the difference between a'croco-
dile and an. alligator? (6) Which arc the
better, the skins of salt or fresh water
crocs. ? —6190.
(1) Shooting is best. See Service Page
(B. 26/6/'29). (2) Depends on distance
from civilisation. If not far out, dinghy
and ordinary camp equipment will suf-
fice. Otherwise, one riding-horse and
six pack-horses to carry tucker and
transport skins are necessary. In the N.T.
buffalo shooting would help keep the pot
boiling, and would pay better than crocodile
hunting. Along Cape York Peninsula coast,
wallaby and ’roo shooting could be made a
side-line, but transport would be difficult. (3)
Cape York Peninsula coast, Gulf of Carpen-
taria, the N.T. coast right around to West-
ralia. (4) Practically all the year round.
(5) See article in “Australian Encyclo-
paedia.” (6) No difference.
(1) What are the prospects of employment
of draftsman with experience in sewerage,
structural, mechanical and survey work in
India, China, Straits Settlements, the
Islands, South America and South Africa?
(2) How can an engineer get in touch with
firms and Government departments in those
countries who may he requiring such officers?
—6109.
• (1) Probably as good as they are here,
except in the Straits Settlements, where
things are pretty bad at present. (2) Write
to the consuls of the respective Governments
or to the Government secretaries.
I purpose going to Canada for the harvest-
ing season. (1) What is the hest time to
arrive there? (2) Best province to go to?
(3) Railway fare from Vancouver to district
recommended, ? —5919.
(1) Not later than June. (2) Alberta or
Saskatchewan. (3) Col. J. Sclater, Cana-
dian Pacific Railway, 247 George-street,
Sydney, will give particulars of railway fares
from Vancouver to any inland point in
Canada.
(1) Were the “Kangaroos” ivho recently
returned from England classed as amateur
or professional footballers? (2) Definition
of an amateur? —6196.
(1) Professionals. (2) One who engages
in games or sports without accepting cash
or other consideration for doing so, provided
that the game or sport in which he engages
has not been declared professional by a duly
constituted body affiliated with the Inter-
national Amateur Federation.
(1) I hired a horse and cart. Am I
responsible for damage done by a motor-car
going in the same direction? (2) If so, what
proceedings should I take against the motor-
ist? (3) How much time must lapse before
I can take proceedings? —6233.
(1) You arc responsible to the owner for
any damage done. (2) and (3) You can
proceed, to recover the damage, against the
person primarily responsible. You should
not delay. If you placed the matter in the
hands of a solicitor, it might possibly be
adjusted without going to law.
I have a wristlet compass which, in addi-
tion to the usual man-kings, 4 sub-cardinal
points, then has a circle divided into 24 sec-
tions and a movable pointer. What is the
method of using this to tell the time f— 6171.
Having obtained true N. by compass (for
your district, Kentucky Settlement, N.S.W.,
the needle should point 9 degrees E. to
allow for magnetic variation), move the
time-pointer so that it points to the sun.
Then the number of hourly divisions from
north will be the hours that have elapsed
from the preceding noon, or the hours to the
following noon, in accordance as to whether
the 1 to 24 hours are graduated anti-clock-
wise or clockwise respectively.
What chance has a fully-qualified chemist
of getting a position on an overseas boat as
dispenser and doctor’s assistant? —6l7s.
Vacancies seldom occur in Australian
ports. Although some oversea shipping lines
employ qualified dispensers, most of the
larger passenger vessels carry a hospital
attendant w r ho combines the duties of doc-
tor’s assistant and hospital steward, and
his status is practically the same as a ship’s
steward’s.
Where can I purchase Australian war
posters ? —6123.
Communicate with the Director, Austra-
lian War Memorial, P.O. Box 214 D, Mel-
bourne, who may be in a position to make
available one or more duplicates. Forward
with your application a list of any posters
in your possession which you would be will-
ing to exchange.
(1) When an article is marked “patented”
does it follow that such an article is pro-
tected by a registered and numbered patent?
(2) Is it necessary to give a number in such
a case? (3) How is it possible to find out
if an article is patented? —6l79.
(1) Not necessarily; it may indicate that
the article was at one time the subject of
a< patent, either Australian or foreign, which
has expired, and that the article was made
before such expiration. (2) Under the Com-
monw’ealth Act, unless the number and date
of the patent are indicated, the patentee
cannot recover damages for infringement.
(3) Instruct a patent attorney to search
the records.
Should passion vines be pruned? If so. how
and when? —6205.
Not while, they display a dense or com-
pact, vigorous growth. After a period of
such development many laterals become
exhausted, nresenting a somewhat defoliated
condition. Cutting off these laterals should
be practised, cutting carefully to distinct
young shoots near the base of laterals. The
leaders may be shortened back to shoots.
An application of nitrogenous fertiliser
should be made at such time. Cutting back
should not be practised in late autumn or
winter. Spring- to early autumn is a favor-
able season for pruning.
I have resided in N.S.W. four years;
never earned more than £2OO per year, and
never made out income-tax returns, J
intend to return to England for a holiday.
Am I likely to get into trouble for not mak-
ing out returns? —6029.
If .your income was as stated you were
not liable for Federal or N.S.W. income tax,
but you must apply to the Taxation Depart-
ment for a clearance before leaving Aus-
tralia.
What is an antidote for strychnine poison
in a d0g? —6137.
As soon as convulsions appear give the
dog a sniff of chloroform. Then one drachm
to two drachms of bromide of potassium dis-
solved in four ounces of water should be
administered, and repeated in a quarter of
an hour if necessary. If available a hypo-
dermic injection of apomorphine hydro-
chloride is the best antidote. In all cases
of suspected poisoning it is advisable to
administer an emetic of mustard and water.
A owed B a small sum, and paid him by
cheque on March 1. B, who lives next door
to the bank, neglected to present the cheque
till March 16, when it was returned marked
“Not sufficient funds.’' There was a balance
available to meet the cheque up till March
14. B threatens to prosecute A for passing
a valueless cheque. Can he do 50? —6194.
No. A cheque must be presented for pay-
ment within a reasonable time. In the cir-
cumstances there was undue delay.
(1) What is the Max Meldrum theory
regarding art? (2) What' are the charac-
teristics which distinguish paintings by the
Max Meldrum school from other groups ? —
6297.
(1) It is a method of sifting optical im-
pressions from those coming through other
senses and those retained from previous
experience and aims at enabling the painter
to record these pure optical impressions in
the strict natural order of their coming and
importance. It was more or less employed
by all great realistic painters. Max Mel-
drum’s lecture on the subject, published in
Melbourne, should be consulted. (2)
Painters of the Meldrum school maintain
that their work should be distinguishable by
the suggestion of actual light and atmo-
sphere and a more vivid illusion of Nature
than is attained by other schools.
(1) Where can instruction in brewing be
secured in Sydney? (2) What wages are
paid to young men learning brewing? —629B.
1) It can be learned only by apprentice-
ship. The brewing cos. go to the unis, and
tech, colls, for likely graduates, give them
laboratory positions for a year or two, and
then possibly transfer them to the technical
side. (2) £250 to £3OO per annum.
(1) Chances in rubber- or tea-growing in
Malaya or Ceylon for an Australian ex-naval
officer? (2) Chances in Kenya to start
farming with £2OOO capital? —6l22.
(1) Poor. There is a slump in both
industries. Rubber is in a particularly bad
way. Assistants are preferred young and
are usually engaged in London. The large
number of Australians in the planting busi-
ness mainly resigned from other employment
on the spot. Nevertheless, application to a
leading company in London can do no harm.
No qualifications but good health are re-
quired. A cadet learns languages and plant-
ing on the job. (2) Conditions seem much
the same as in Australia. Government
assists settlers. Minimum capital £5OO.
Labor cheap aud fairly plentiful. Trans-
port costs high. Wheat and wool are ex-
panding. Pasture is in -excess of requirements.
Rubber is under a cloud and tea suffers
handicaps compared to Ceylon. Full details
in the South and East African Year-book
(and Report of Department of Overseas
Trade, 1928 (British Trade Commissioner,
Melbourne).
(1) Papuan exports (1929) of trochus
shell, green snail shell, beche-de-mer and
black lip shell? (2) Prospects of shell and
trepang fishing as a payable proposition in
Papuan waters? —6003.
(1) Trochus shell, 148 tons, value
£10,502; green snail shell, 6f tons, value
£160; beche-de-mer, 104| tons, value £9194;
black lip shell, If tons, value £l4. (2)
Near the breadline. Larger quantities of
fish and shell are got in Mandated Territory
waters and much larger still in Torres
Strait. But in all centres the trade is in
the hands of men of many years’ experi-
ence, who are not making much profit out
of it. This year in Torres Strait hap been
exceptionally good owing to the finding of a
phenomenally rich bed of shell, but as a
result the very limited market is nearly
glutted.
(1) Have any reports, been published
locally on the manufacture and utilisation of
power alcohol from cassava? (2) Have
experiments proved such power alcohol satis-
factory? (3) ,Is much manufactured and
used locally? (4) What is the Common-
wealth bounty and is it still being paid f. —
6226.
(1) Yes. -Sec Bulletin 33 published by the
Council for Scientific and Industrial Re-
search. (2) Yes. (3) Practically none
from cassava, but a considerable amount
from molasses at Sarina (Q.)- (4) Consult
Dept, of Trade and Customs.
(1) What qualifications must candidates
for N.S.W. Local Government Auditor’s Cer-
tificate possess before being permitted to sit
for the exam? (2) Examination subjects?
(3) Fee for examination and certificate?
(4) Any age limit? (5) Where and when
are exams, held? (6) From whom can
further information be obtained? —6161.
(1) Must hold and produce to the Local
Government Clerks and Auditors’ Examina-
tion Committee the certificate of member-
ship, gained by examination, of an account-
ants’ or auditors’ institute recognised by the
committee. (2) (a) Local government book-
keeping; (b) Local government auditing;
(c) All Acts dealing with the subject of
local government and all ordinances and
regulations under such Acts; (d) All Acts
with the administration of which the council
of a municipality or shire is charged, and
all by-laws, ordinances and regulations made
thereunder; (e) The powers and duties of
officers and servants of councils. (3) 10s. 6d.
for each. (4) Must be over 21. (5)
Annually, about , May in Sydney, and at
arranged country centres. (6) Local Gov-
ernment Department, Sydney.
I took some photographs of groups and
public buildings, some of which I sold to
various people. I now find a newspaper,
which did not buy prints from me, has
reproduced some of these to illustrate an
article. My request for payment has been
ref used on the ground that the newspaper did
not order the photographs from me. Have I
any redress, or did I lose the copyright in
the photographs when I sold the prints? —
5971. '
If you registered the copyright you have
grounds for an action for infringement.
Otherwise the prints-may be reproduced by
a-nyone without payment-to you.
Brief Answers.
E.G.: Write N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture for free pamphlet, “Cross-pollination of
Fruit Trees”... .C.8.W.: Apply Map Sales Branch,
Department of Lands, Bridge-street, Sydney. Scale
of shire maps is two miles to the inch, and in
some cases one mile,to the inch. Price, ss. each. .. .
K.J.: They , are abo. words. Meanings: Menangle,
“swamp”; Toongabbie, “place near the water”;
Gymea, “a giant lily”; Baradine, “red wallaby.”
J.M. : (1) N.Z.. Loan and Mercantile, Brisbane.
(2) 300 ft. by 3ft. (3) 225. 6d. per roll, f.o.b.
Brisbane. A roll weighs about 1321 b E.N.C.:
“Diesel and Oil Engineering Handbook,” by Ros-
bloom (255.) ; “Diesel Engines,” by Jones (255.) ;
“The Diesel Engine,” by Wells and Wallis-Taylor
(195.); “Marine Diesel Engines,” by Mac Gibbon
(365.) ; “Marine Diesel Engines,” by Sothern (575.
6d.) ; “Diesel Engines,” by Goldingham (265.) ;
“The Running and Maintenance of the Marine Diesel
Engine,” by J. Lamb (225. 6d.) —all obtainable from
Angus and Robertson, Sydney... .J.S.L.: None of
your tickets won a prize. .. .E.M.C.: You can be
compelled to pay in both cases. .. .C.H.P.: Only
graduates in veterinary science are appointed as
stock inspectors in N.S.W W.G.A.: Write to
Tanning .School, Waterloo, S3'dney, for memorandum
on tanning rabbit-skins. .. .G.M.T.: Half a pound of
soft soap to four gallons of hot water will make
a soapy base. To each gallon, add four tablespoons
of kerosene... .W.E.T.: Send for free leaflet “An
Effective Crow Trap,” issued by Department of
Agriculture, Sydney. .. .H.R.1.: Write Bennett and
Wood, 284 Pitt-street, Sydney.... D.M.: “Concise
Oxford Dictionary” (10s. 4d., post free), Roget’s
“Thesaurus of English Words and Phrases” (10s.
3d., post free) —Angus and Robertson, Sydney....
8.K.: (1) £l7 1 Is. per month. (2)' Write
Secretary, Marine Cooks, etc., Assoc., 52 Day-street,
Sydney... .R.G.: Baudouin’s “Suggestion and Auto-
suggestion” and “Power Within Us,” and Coue’s
“My Method” and “Self Mastery Through Auto-
suggestion” .... Bower: Caragarang (the sea);
Elanora (home by the sea) ; Iluka (near the sea) ;
Yamba (a headland) ; or Yuruga (extensive view).
... .W.P.: Country classes in wool-classing are con-
ducted in various centres. Syllabuses and full
details from Department of Sheep and Wool, East
Sydney Tech. College, Darlinghurst.... J.T.: (1)
Rosman’s Boatshed, Mosman, Sydney, may be able
to help you. (2) Write Benson Bros., 76 Liverpool-
street; and Hall Bros., Ltd., Willoughby-street,
Careening Cove —both Sydney. . . .N.A.L.: (1)
Chrysotile is used for the manufacture of asbestos
cloth, fireproof curtains, garments, gloves, rope,
belting’, piston packing, and for giving weight to
silk. (2) Minerals, Ltd., 264 Botany-road, Alexan-
dria, Sydney... .W.C.8.: A harmattan is a dry
parching land-wind w’hich blows during December,
January and February on the coast of Upper Guinea
in Africa; it obscures the air with a red-dust fog.
. . . .A.A.: Obtain Invalid Pension claim forms from
the nearest post office and lodge a claim with
Pensions Department, Melbourne. .. .W.J.8.: (1)
Height, not less than sft. 9in. ; weight, list. 71b.;
chest measurement, 39Jin. ; age, 20 tol 27, returned
soldiers to 30. (2) Successful applicants are
appointed as soon as possible, but there is a
waiting list at present. (3) Personal application is
compulsory; apply to the Police Commissioner,
Phillip-street, Sydney... .D.D.: To qualify for a
purser’s post on the Australia-England route service
in a shipping co.’s London office and experience as
assistant-purser would be necessary. A fairly high
educational standard is set. Salaries range up to
£5OO p.a H.S.: The Australian ships Aorangi
and Niagara carry laundrymen. Application should
be made on board. Laundrymen on overseas ships
are on English articles... .J.L.E.: Sole right to cut
sandalwood on Queensland Crown lands has recently
been acquired by the firm of Murphy, Slattery,
McKnoe and Howe, of Winton. Communicate with
them....A.C.M.: Apply to the Bonaventure Poultry
Farm, Mt. Druitt (N.S.W.), or the Manager, J.
and A. Brown, Minmi (N.S.W.) ... .M.M.1.: He would
not be subject to either Federal or State income
tax... .F.A.C.: (1) The Testator’s Family Main-
tenance Act (N.S.W.) provides that where a testator
disposes of his property by will in such a manner
that any of his children are left without adequate
provision for their proper maintenance, education
or advancement in life; the Court may order provision
to be made out of the testator’s estate. (2) Copy
of a will lodged for probate can be obtained from
the Registrar of Probates, Supreme Court, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney. Inspection fee, 2s. Cost of copy
depends on length .... J.P.: Australian trade unionists
contributed £30,000 in. support of the 1889 London
dock laborers’ strike. .. .V.T.R.: Communicate with
the Australian agent for the Kleinm light ’plane,
H. C. Ittershagen, 291 Rail way-parade, West Subiaco,
' W.A T.H.: Miller’s “Sporting Annual” (1929)
gives them in the following order: Gloaming
' ( £43,100), Heroic ( £38,062 10s.), Limerick
(£37,971 105.)... .F.C.: The most recent total
eclipse of the sun took place in Australia on Sept.
21, 1922 W.M.R.: The trouble is fruit fly. The
use of fly traps and A. W. Harvey’s lure (obtain-
able from maker, Station-road, Albion, Brisbane) is
a satisfactory method of dealing with this trouble.
. ...R.E.: Tradition ascribes the phrase to Bishop
Bradford (b. 1510; burnt at Smithfield 1555) on
seeing some criminals going to execution. .. .J.H.T.:
There is a Grand Trunk Pacific in Canada
M. : A person receiving a widow’s pension in
N. is excluded from receiving a family endow-
ment allowance C.C.: From Mick Simmons,
George-street, Sydney. Straight, 355. and 425. 6d.
each; bent, 555. and 655. each N.H.: According
to Sydney booksellers his sales exceed those of
any other author. .. .R.A.8.: Call at the Mitchell
Library and see Sidney’s “Three Colonies of Aus-
tralia” and Buchanan’s “Australia to the Rescue.”
Other books on the same topic will be shown to
you if you ask for them H.T.E.: They are worth
ss. each. ... J-H.S.: Neither of the items mentioned
is subject to taxation S.H.: (1) A possible sub-
stitute for the ordinary fired enamel would be a
lacquer containing glyptol as a base. (2) Consult
“Australian Manufacturers’ Guide.” (3) Not par-
ticularly ... .8.R.: So far as we are aware no
experiments have been made in tea-growing either
in Papua or New Guinea. Information regarding
the suitability of localities may be obtained from
the Directors of Agriculture at Port Moresby, Papua:
and at Rabaul, New Guinea. . . .E.M.: He is entitled
to bear the arms of the original head of his house,
unless his great grandfather adopted different arms.
Compare the Cliffords of Chudleigh and of Fleux-
bourne... .G.M..0.: Birtler’s “Foreign Finches in
Captivity,” listed in London at 155., second-hand.
The Avicultural Society (annual subscription £1
is., entrance fee 10s.) publishes a monthly magazine
which deals with cage birds generally. (Hon. sec.,
E. M. Knobel, 32 Tavistock-square, London, W.C.I).
.... J.L.8.: To ascertain the volume of a sphere,
first And the area of a circle of the same diameter,
by multiplying the radius (half diameter) by itself
and then by 3.1416. Multiply, this area by twice
the diameter, and divide by three. In the cases
mentioned the volumes are respectively 1436.75,
2572.44 and 4849.06 cubic inches... .E.S.: 235. Bd.
and 41s. 3d. per 100 super, feet will give you 10
per cent, profit (Many others mailed.)


Hawaii
Where it is Always Fine
These Isles of perpetual Spring, in a beautiful mid-Pacific island
paradise are beckoning you. Spend a holiday such as you’ve
never before experienced. Stay at least a week. Surfing, surf-
board and outrigger canoe riding, native dancing, polo, golf,
inter-island cruises, scenic trips, active volcanoes, sun-baking on
Honolulu’s world-famous Waikiki Beach, and hosts of other
attractions.
It’s yours for the taking, and comparatively inexpensive, tool
Special return excursion fares now available. Modern American
Hotels from 15/- to £3 per day with meals.
Send us your address and we will forward to you descriptive
booklets of the Hawaiian Islands, attractively illustrated in
colour.
Hawaii Tourist Bureau
Box 1627 8.8., G.P.O.
Dept. 1 y
SYDNEY
HOME for cure of ALCOHOLISM and DRUGS
(BOTH SEXES)
Established 30 years. Highly recommended. Under medical supervision. Fully qualified matron
and staff. Effective and safe.
THE CENTRAL MISSION INSTITUTION,
Moreland Hall, Jessie Street, Moreland, Melbourne.
Telephone: Brunswick 744.
GOING HOME?
—then make a note of
HENLYS’ “BUY-BACK” PLAN
You want to motor when in England. Right!
Henlys will sell you a car, and, at the same time,
guarantee to buy this car back at a pre-determined
price when you leave. The difference between the
price you pay for the car and the price at which
HENLYS will buy it back, is really ridiculously
small; much less than would be the cost of hiring.
And while you have it, the car is yours to use as
you wish, when you wish.
Henlys apply this plan to the best British makes;
and they have the largest stock of cars in England
for you to choose from.
Illustrated Brochure obtainable from
•t The Bulletin” Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
HENLYS
England’s Leading Motor Agents
DEVONSHIRE HOUSE, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W. I
and at Manchester, Leeds and Bristol
if any illustration in "THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
IT
mm
THE SUNTYNE
COMBINED GRAIN AND FERTILISER DRILL
AND SPRING TYNE CULTIVATOR.
8 r ow —l7 Tynes Cultivates sft.
12 Row 25 Tynes Cultivates 71ft.
14 Row 29 Tynes Cultivates 81ft.
16 Row 33 Tynes Cultivates 91ft.
20 Row 41 Tynes Cultivates 12ft.
24 Row 49 Tynes Cultivates 14ft.
THE SUNTYNE LEADS IN POPULARITY BECAUSE:
The Cultivating Points compact the seed bed and cover it with a mulch of
thoroughly pulverised soil.
The seed with fertiliser is sown on the level compacted seed bed, and secures
full advantage from the stored moisture in the soil.
It will cultivate and sow as shallow or as deep as desired.
Flexible Floats save the tynes and ensure uniform cultivation.
The All-steel Lid keeps seed and super, perfectly dry.
Forward Lever and Hitch for tractor working available at small extra cost.
Illustrated Catalogue, Prices and Terms will be posted free on request.
THE SUNDERCUT
STUMP JUMP DISC CULTIVATING PLOUGH
10-Disc si-:e cultivates sft. 14-Disc size cultivates 7ft.
THE MOST WIDELY-USED DISC IMPLEMENT IN AUSTRALIA.
Unequalled for ploughing in stubble and for dealing with heavy weed growth,
Paddymelon, Stinkwort, etc. Also works well in rough country and in virgin
Mallee Lands. Cultivates to a depth of four inches.
Alternate 20-inch and 18-inch discs, set with undercut, cut to a uniform depth
and leave a granular tilth ideal for moisture catchment and conservation.
Cultivates more soil per horse-power used than does any other disc implement.
Differential Cog Jump operates without increasing draught. Tractor Levers
supplied in lieu of team levers at small extra cost.
Illustrated Pamphlet, Prices and Terms will be posted free on request.
I M
■
;
mm
•V*
MgsS;
aw|sis«
UK
w
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE, AUSTRALIA
BRANCHES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne.
95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
Cr. Murray and King Streets, Perth.
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
H. V. McKAY (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
Ask for General Illustrated Catalogue of all Sunshine manufactures.


To a perfect site "The Australia does full
justice. Thoroughly modern, restfully luxurious,
courteous in service, world-famous in cuisine,
yet surprisingly moderate in tariff.
Socially an
the centre of Sydne^
UM
If* iM
W W W
Ult
ly W V^y
I'Ll
LLLL
LIL
LIL-ILIL LL L
LLI L
L LL [
L LL L
LILILILUt
■ ■■ ■
ill l
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.’
Illustrated folder on request.
Capital paid-up,
£422,100.
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH,
SYDNEY.
he
ustralia
SMOKE-OH!
Anyhow, exports promise to exceed
imports in the vice-regal line for a while.
* *
The wished-for rains have been followed
in agricultural districts by many harrowing
scenes.
* *
“He loved to retire to his library and spend a
quiet hour amongst the immorals.”— “S. M. Herald.”
And if it weren’t for our interfering Cen-
sorship Department he would be able to
spend a good deal more time than that
amongst them.
* *
MYSTERY.
The firemen turn their hose on. See!
The flame at once departs.
Yet when girls turn their hose on me
My fire promptly starts.
P. P.
? ¥
A “Sun” comp, rises resourcefully to the
occasion:—
“A young foreman in the Adelaide Waterworks
Department will save his job by immediately wedding
his finaneee.”
WINS EITHER WAY.
"I’ve been to a phrenologist this afternoon. You know, a man who reads heads.”
“Yes, I know—and tells tales.”
“And then there is the type of woman who
declines to have children because she hopes to
achieve fame.”- — “Herald.”
She Marie Stopes to conquer.
* *
“The world is literally drunk with money.”
—Sydney parson.
He must have had the luck to meet some
of the staggering profits.
* *
“The audience owled at the singer.”— “News.”
To put it baldly, “She got the bird.”
* *
“Bradman made 20 in one over.”
Quite a score in itself.
* *
THE REDEMPTION OF LUV.
(From Hollywood Publicity Stunts
Inc.).
Cyril de Bunnkc’s masterpiece, “The
Redemption of Luv,” starring Heepa Gar-
bige and the Crooning Plumber Rudy Buti-
ful, will shortly be disinfected and unleashed
in Australia. Make your reservations NOW.
Casanova has nothing on this one.
The Story.
Heepa, whose dad has cornered all the
hooch in N.Y. State, summons Rudy to the
family’s Long Island palazzo to attend to
a leak in an under-housemaid’s swimming-
tank. It is a. ruse; the girl has seen Rudy
tenderly escorting his crippled mother to
church one morning as she and her aristo-
cratic friends were returning from an all-
night dope party in Harlem.
As Rudy plumbs he croons. Stripping
to her cami-knickers Heepa plunges into the
housemaid’s humble little 60 x 40 tank.
Rudy is so impressed by her democratic
action that he lavishes ail the love of his
boyish heart on her. (The world-famed
theme song, “I’m Falling, Falling! Gimme
Another Push” —described by the composer,
Yxshnozzl, as “Like Beethoven, only better”
—is introduced here.) Leaping into Heepa’s
400-h.p. racer they drive to the Little Church
Round the Corner, are wedded, and settle
down happily in his mother’s hovel, where
ITeepa does "all the housework. The Better
Part of the Woman’s World-Scarred Soul is
brought to the surface by her Great Love
for Rudy and his child.
And then —Stark Tragedy. We see
Heepa once more guzzling champagne, snif-
fing cocaine, dropping her friends with auto-
matics —in brief, back in society. The Pity
of It! She is again the Creature of Vice,
Careless of her End,
It is all the result of disillusionment. She
has discovered that Rudy has been false
to her ; that he is not the father of her child.
Girls, it’s a Wow. Soulless Luxury—
Sizzling, Seething Passion —Tender Mother
Love—The Unspeakable almost Nauseating
Charm of Innocent Childhood —all, all are
there.
Boys, get busy with the Old Man’s petty
cash while you inscribe on the Tablets of
Memory the Phrase: “Another- De Bunkke
Is Coming to the Old Home Town.”
“Chinese owners of several bowls of goldfish were
arrested in Sydney last week.”
The story goes that they were caught
scaling on the trams.
H- *
THE RETORT DISCOURTEOUS.
“A Sydney evening newspaper is conducting a
competition to find out the most popular girl-typist
in the city. The prize is a motor-ear.”
The typist met the manager; he took her
by the hand,
And said: “If you should win the car,
Oh, wouldn’t it be grand!
At once you’d- be most popular
With me —you understand?”
She gave her head a haughty hoist
As into speech she broke.
“Your ivife,” she sneered, “would be rejoiced
To hear them words you spoke.
Here! Whaddya think I am, old bean?
A comic-paper joke?”
AMONG THE EXPERTS.
“Eugene Christian* of New York, author of ‘How
I Shall Live to a Hundred Years,’ has died, aged 69.”
However, Miss Dorothy Dix, of the “Sun,”
authoress of innumerable articles teaching
married women their business, is still going
strong.
* *
QUICK CHANGE.
“I’ve nothing new to wear,
And novelties I swear by.”
“I know!” —she touched hcr hair,
“I’ll try another hair-dye.”
IT MAKES A DIFFERENCE.
MAUD: “I can’t bear him. I think he’s a little worm!”
MAISIE: “Maybe; but, dear—a silk-worm.”
“A change in the title of Vatican representatives
abroad is contemplated.”
Might we suggest “Ministers for Rome
Affairs”?
* v
THE IGNORED SUGGESTION.
“It is not good for 1 any Administration to have
too much money.”— “Sun” leader.
The Governing Director of the mighty
chain of newspapers was in conference with
his scintillating staff of Quite-So-Sir men.
The Board Room bespoke boundless wealth.
But the Governing Director was gloomy, and
his Quite-So-Sir men were perturbed.
“Gentlemen,” said the great man irritably,
“I am in a quandary. The organisation has
too much money.”
“Stand yourself another trip to England
at the Company’s expense, sir,” cried a
leader-writer, his eyes shining with affection.
“Stay away for two or three years.”
“Double your fees,” urged an editor.
“Buy yourself a peerage and charge it
up to the shareholders,” shouted a Business
Manager.
At this stage the Religious Editor —notori-
ous for his ignorance on all but spiritual
subjects—intervened with a suggestion _so
monumentally tactless, so criminally unwise,
that the litterateurs and efficiency experts
present gasped in unison.
“I’ve got it,” he cried brightly. “Try
charging for our dailies.”
A Features Specialist struck the wretch
senseless to the ground, and the Conference
broke up in confusion. Later, the Religious
Editor was formally hounded from the Com-
pany’s £500,000 building. He has since
joined the ranks of the unemployables.
H. S.
* ¥
“Steel shoes as substitutes for handcuffs are
proposed by Berlin detectives.”— “Age.”
What of it? Late-comers at Australian
theatres have been using them for years.
* *
He always had his trousers creased
Before he married. Note
The creases on his pants have ceased:
He uiears them on his brow.
* *
FAME.
Ermyntrude yearned wildly to attract
attention. She did her best by wear-
ing outrageous garments, imitating the ways
of the leading talkie vamps and so on. In
vain. Nobody took the slightest notice of
her. Sadly she concluded that she was the
wrong type.
And then one day out of a blue sky
came Fame. She was the cynosure of all
eyes. Total strangers fought desperately to
get a glimpse of her. Yet her triumph was
a disappointment —one of those successes
that turn to dust and ashes in the mouth.
After all, no girl can get much real pleasure
from being knocked unconscious in a motor
smash.
Skirts must be shorter to be skirts any
longer.
# *
He asked her to wed,
And she would, she said,
If he’d ask her family first.
He sounded her mother,
Her aunt and her brother,
But her father sounded the worst.
* ¥
COMPLETING THE STORY.
“A Wentworth Falls (N.S.W.) man was knocked
down by a car on March 13. He took out a sweep
ticket as ‘The Lucky Escape Syndicate,’ getting the
number 50013, and learned on April 13 that he
had won £4o.” —News item.
Later information goes to show that it
didn’t end there. To celebrate his win, he
spent £l3 on alco-
hol, starting off
with 13 whiskies
and finishing in
No. 13 William-
Ma c leay - street,
which happens to be
a hospital, ll'e had
joined in a fight in
which 13 people
participated, and
had been thrown
down a flight of 13
stone steps. The
fine and costs came
to £l3; and when
he got home his
wife, refusing to
believe the hospital
story, wanted to
know where he had
been for the past
13 days. As lie had
lost £l3 in wages
he revenged him-
self on his wife by
pinching 13s. from
her—that being all
she had. Unfor-
tunately he lost it,
and * also the £1
note which re-
mained from his
£4O on a horse
with a number 13
saddlecloth. It ran thirteenth.
P. P.
* *
“He committed an infection of the rules.”
— “News.”
An example that no doubt caught on.
V V
“Australia’s obligations will be passed down to
posteriority. ’ —“Nun.”
An obscure hint, apparently, that they will
be stuffed into our hip pockets and forgotten.
* *
There was a young feller named Gray,
Whose probity none could gainsay.
He went in for punting,
And that’s why they're hunting
A vanished embezzler to-day!
THE MARCH OF SCIENCE.
DAVE : “Well, Dad, we oughter stock up soon
as the rain comes; so you might inquire
about these ’ere hydraulic rams while
you’re down.”
“The supoprters of Golding are indignant at his
exclusion from the team .’’—“Sunday Sun.”
Going off pop about it, as the saying is.
* *
Floss removed her garter which was too
tight. “It reminds me of the Sydney even-
ing papers’ attempt to charge a penny-ha-
penny,” she mused. “What I mean is it
stopped the circulation.”
DIRGE.
The southerly moans and the rain teems
down;
There’s an icy chill in the air;
But her place was always ’midst bodies
brown
Under heavens serene and fair.
She was ever one for a smiling sun;
She was lost when the skies grew grey;
Note the glowing season she loved is done,
And I have to put her away.
In a coffin of wood, without warmth or light,
To grim loneliness a recruit,
She must dree hei' weird both by day and
nifi lit —
I refer to my surfing suit.
10-2-4.


WWWWWWXWXWV^'wwwwxx^x
k
k
c
6 e
k
a de e
ppQBAk
eP
MAR*
MADE ini
Twenty years’ experience concentrated
in patented features from edge to edge
Bends without distortion. The new-shaped holes permit the use of special
highly tempered steel 17 per cent, thicker than the average.
This extra thickness ensures rigidity and prevents “pull” and drag.
Steel ribbon passes through giant machines, which eliminate uman
error and produce every blade edge uniform in quality. cn
double-tested by microscopic and hair-cutting tests. Not a
poor blade in a million. Nothing so exact in production
has ever been conceived and accomplished to
produce a safety - razor blade worthy of
this age of science. Sold at fixed
prices—2/- the small packet,
4/- the large packet
—o f all dealers
y everywhere.
■UO j.
.<5* y c o v^
* v<(v*.
xO~,ii?; cV^^
W #V \% v


■
■H
■
m
m
...
;
mm i
'
v
4m
iili
J
■
Om
m
mm
■
B
A
■
mm
m
m
K
y
1
m
w
m
mm
%
m
. ■ y
R
i
m
. rv
i
■
m
m
2
r:
I
1
%ts
■
'■'v/';
v;
• y;t
m
m
FOR THE MOD.ERN MODE
mm


O'
J ,V».
>^b^ xc
IHE MARK. OF THE COArtNR
“Your Radio Pleasure depends
on the Speaker 0 ” The ONLY
Speaker guaranteed against hum
or rattle for the life of the Speaker.
That is the X-Core Dynamic Speaker—
made by Magnavox, of course —for only
Magnavox may make a Dynamic Speaker.
Obtainable all Radio Dealers.
Battery operated D.C. Units, £5/151-
A.C. operated from House Mains. A.C. Units, £7ls\
Indian
braves
in tribal dances
mm
mm
mm
... a thrilling sight
as you cross America
to England
ML LTHOUGH civilization sur-
XaL rounds them, the pic-
turesque Indians of America
still flourish and maintain
their primitive customs. For
your pleasure, they dance to
the music of tom-toms, wear-
ing headdresses of eagles’
feathers.
From San Francisco to
New York, your rail trip
across America to England
will be filled with interesting
experiences. This is your
shortest, fastest route “back
home.” It begins at Sydney,
where you take a Matson
liner to San Francisco. Every-
thing is arranged for you in
advance and there is only
one ticket to buy.
Ask for new free illustrated
literature, “To England
Across America,” telling how
inexpensive and delightful
this trip is.
The OcCA!\IICSTEAMSHIPCa
PI4JSOM LINE
Dept. M 9, 12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Telephone 87981.
Mcllwraith, McEacharn, Ltd.; and
Dalgety & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Fre-
mantle, Albany.
Dalgety & Co., Ltd.,
and Queensland Ports.
m
ss
You’ll see him, in his ceremonial dance regalia
Poverty
Point
“Boxl.” : My friends are wildly enthusias-
tic over the talkies. The seating accommoda,-
tion, they insist, is something to dream about.
Different times different methods. When I
was a young fellow we judged drama with
the other end of our spinal columns.
“Craiser”: Nellie Stewart’s admirers have
decided that H'. B. Mclnnes, the almost
permanent Archibald prize-winner, shall do
the lady’s portrait. She will sit for him in
the Sweet Nell costume.
“Ox” : Strawberry comes into her own at
last. A New York theatre has been doing-
good business with a man who milks a cow
in full view of the audience. Most of the
audience hasn’t seen a cow outside pictures
for years, and, to prove there’s no deception,
the milk from Strawberry is passed down to
the audience to taste.
“Isaac Email”: A member of the recently
defunct Jewish Opera Co. was approached by
a country musical society to sing in “Elijah.”,
The age-old battle re terms began. At length,
in exasperation, the singer exclaimed, “You
expect me to sing with all my heart, don’t
you? How can I sing ‘lt Is Enough’ when
all the time I know it isn’t?”
“Flamfat”: It delighted me to see that
Walter Passmore was highly praised for his
performance in “Damask Rose,” produced in
London. I was several times Walter Pass-
more myself. The name may have belonged
to some thespian known on the Australian
boards years ago, or may have been copied
out of old London bills. Anyway, I remem-
ber when Walter Passmore was appearing
with three different companies at the same
time, and, as a theatregoer put it to me:
“This Passmore chap must be splendid in
make-up, he looks nearly six feet in some
pieces and only a little chap in others.”
Once, on a Maoriland tour, a man insisted
upon recognising me as the Passmore. When
I repudiated the honor lie became nasty and
made objectionable insinuations about unpaid
board due to his mother.
“Talbert” : Already someone has suggested
that Queensland choirs be invited to Sydney
to take part in the ceremonies connected
with the opening of the Bridge. It is
understood that the choir. members who
threatened Arundel Orchard and Fritz Hart
with personal violence at the recent Brisbane
Eisteddfod will be debarred from participat-
ing. One leading choir will be short of a
basso who disagreed with the conductor on
the question of the meaning of “pp.” When
asked to sing very softly the passages so
indicated he retorted. “No blanky ’ope! In
Mudgeeragong we was always told two p’s
meant ‘plenty of power.’ ”
“Boxl.”: Why are certain films black-
listed for children between 6 'and 16? A
greasy film is more dangerous to a maid of
17 than to a child of 6, surely. The canny
producer welcomes the restriction for its
advertising pull. A few weeks back a talkie
booster occupied a prominent position on
most railway hoardings round Melbourne,
and the most conspicuous feature of the
display was the censor’s criticism, “Not quite
' decent.” The Law apparently said nothing.
“ Jonop” : The biggest war ever waged in
magical circles occurred recently when Flo
Ziegfield threatened to have a ballet of 24
girls doing the disappearing canary act,
said to have been invented by Carl Hertz.
In this a live cana*ry in a cage disappears in
full view of the audience. The trouble
started when Ziegfield called upon a magician
in his employ to teach the girls. The magician
quit rather than “prostitute magic.” In
any case, he said, the girls couldn’t do the
trick without killing 24 canaries a night.
Ziegfield said, “We’ll use imitation canaries,”
and the magician said “Ha ! Ha !” He added
that he had been doing the trick for 15
years and had never had a* dead bird on his
conscience. At latest the girls were getting
ready, the magicians were growing redder
in the face, and the society for bird pro-
tection was keeping a gimlet eye on the whole
affair.
“L.H.P.”: Faversham faded out of Sydney
after playing only two pieces, neither much
good. Compare this with his wonderful
repertoire in America. There he played
dozens of first-class plays, many of which
would well bear revival here, even though
they had been done before. All these over-
seas stars bar, say, Nance O’Neil, John L.
Toole, PI. B. Irving, Oscar Asche and ,Wilson
Barrett, reach Australia with scarcely a
script in their portmanteaux. They rely on
a couple of pieces to draw the mob. Had
Faversham been put up in a “Plenry VIII.”
the Royal would not have felt the draughts
so much.
“L.H.P.” “Aix-les-Coogee” must be easily
pleased if he regards Bill Curtis (B. 9/4/’3O)
as “one of Sydney’s best Ichabod Bronsons.”
As a matter of fact he was woeful, as lie was
in all his histrionic efforts, judging even by
amateur standards. Also as a librettist he
failed. “The Emperor,” an opera with a
Homan setting following “The Mikado
model, was a washout at the Palace; even
Arundel Orchard’s ear-haunting music could
not save the work. Billy is at his right
game chasing Costs.
“L. de R.” Melbourne owes a* debt of grati-
tude to that fine pianist, Edward Goll, who
continues to give unremunerative recitals ot
the genuine classics, while itinerant vir-
tuosi come, play their Chopin nocturnes, and
go. Goll is commonly supposed to have reached
ihe sere amd yellow. Actually he is barely
40. He acquired his snow-white hair suddenly
during the course of a series of recitals in
London after the Armistice, when he learnt
that his parents had died of starvation m
Vienna. It is Goll’s fervent belief that
nobody can adequately interpret the greatest
works of the greatest masters unless he has
suffered greatly.
“Cauboy”: Kubelik will commence his
Australian season in Perth on May 22, sub-
sequently proceeding to Kalgoorlie, Broken
Hill, Adelaide and Melbourne. In Queens-
land lie will unsheath his bow in moving-
picture theatres, the proprietors being pre-
pared to give Vilma Banky a rest for the
occasion.
“Hamfat”: Of the father and four sons
who first put up an independent shingle as
Wirtlis’ Circus, Phil is the only one still at
it. George, who is only 63, is retiring. Ilia
affluence was powerfully helped by a wad of
money left by a relative in America when
the circus was in a bad way. George was a
performer in the Ridge Circus band when he
was only 10 years old, and, like all circus
bandsmen, had to do his turn too. He has
been horseman, gymnast and acrobat. How-
ever, he declined when it was suggested that
he ought to take the place of a lion-tamer
who had been badly mauled. His refusal
was firm —is even said to have been unpolite.
“L.H.P.”: If Allan Wilkie follows out
the announcement (“G.8.,” B. 23/4/'3O) that
he will stage the two parts of “Henry 1' •
and “Richard II.” in Melbourne, he will
break almost virgin theatrical ground.
I doubt if “Richard II.” has been seen in
Melbourne since Charles Kean played it on
April 26, 1864, at the old Haymarket.
William Creswick staged the first part of
“Henry IV.” at Melbourne Opera House m
187 S, playing Falstaff, with Hans Phillips
as Prince Hal, but the second part has
never been staged in Australia.
“L.H.P.”: Maorilander Marie Ney plays
Miladi in tlie coming opera of “The Three
Musketeers” at Drury-lane. The comedian is
Australia’s old friend Gene Gerrard, and
Arthur Wontner, whose Prince Bonelli in
“The Eternal City” is not yet forgotten in
Australia, will wear the red robes of
Richelieu.
“Hops-and-Scotch” : Comedian Harry Wel-
don has passed on. He was at Sydney
Tivoli when long past his prime, but even
then would have been a boom had not a ivhole
series of comedians pinched nine-tenths of his
songs and “business.” Also his memory
had failed to some extent, and his beautiful
wife, Hilda Glyder, herself a fine artist, had
not only to do her own act, but also _to
stand anxiously in the wingte prompting
him. Few will “forget Weldon, in his prime,
attempting to sing a popular song which in
his version went: —
And roses round the door
Make me love mother more—
Old Mother More
with tremendous emphasis on the “Mother.”
“Hops-and-Scotch”: Jim Hughes carried
on gamely in an important part in the last
act of “The Hawk” at Sydney Royal on a
Monday night and died early on the Tuesday
morning. It is a habit of Thespians to do
their job. A stage-door rule emphasises the
importance of never delivering a telegram
to an artist till the curtain has fallen, in
case it should contain bad news. During
the ’flu epidemic a comedian at a Sydney
theatre addressed the manager: “I have just
come from the bedside of my wife,” he said.
“She is likely to die. I am going on now,
but if a message comes to say she wants me,
I’m going to quit; so have the understudy
ready. If the message comes and you dqnh
deliver it, I’ll kill yon when I find out.
Then he went on to be funny, ' while the
manager shut himself up with the night's
takings and prayed hard that the telephone
wouldn’t ring.
BEETHOVEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She was, alas,
As far above me as the stars in Heaven,
Her lineage ancient, her ancestors seven
Of high degree! I kissed her, overbold.
Kissed her—and never told
The price I paid
For loving her (poor foolish little jade)
Lies here in tunes I made,
Writ with a twisted smile.
You like them? Yes?
And some of you can at their meaning guess,
Wondering the while
How any soul such sweetness could distil
From fortune ill.
I’ve sung what I could sing
Of Love and Fate and of the Greater Thing,
And now I take my ease
Remembering (ppp, if you please),
She was a lass!
N.S.W.
HYRAM.
The Inky Way
N.S.W.’s enterprising Country Women’s
Association has its own paper now—a bright
monthly, with heaps of illustrations. The
editor is Miss Dungey.
“E.R.H.”: In the case of the “finger-
length” frock which tickled “Lao-dah” (B.
23/4/’3O), the maligned comps., for once,
were not to blame. “Finger-length” is a
term applied to a coat which reaches the
finger-tips when the wearer is standing erect,
arms hanging at the sides.
“Sturt”: The censorship of newspaper
contents bills, lately instituted by Adelaide
City Council, lias its moments. The city is
chuckling over the recent boycott of the
announcement of a new biography of Queen
Mary, “Remarkable Life Story of the Queen
starts To-day in the ‘Register.’ ” This was
mysteriously regarded a« somehow unsuitable
and was ordered down from all news-stands.
The story itself, a particularly candid
chronicle of the inner workings of the Royal
family in the eighteen-nineties, runs its daily
course without any check whatever.
Lately dead Inky Wayfarer Ralph Ainge-
Johnson believed in fresh fields and plenty
of them. His addresses included Brisbane
“Mail,” Cairns “Post,” Townsville “Bulle-
tin,” Townsville “Star,” Brisbane “Courier,"
Melbourne “Argus,” Melbourne “Graphic,”
Melbourne “Punch,” “West Australian,"
Sydney “Daily Telegraph.” And he founded
the Rockhampton “Evening News.”
Ken Wilkinson, who collected Sydney
University’s first Diploma of Journalism,
was a hot favorite for that event from the
day the acceptances were declared. He is
one of the soundest of the younger brigade
on the “S. M. Herald.” His forte is Granny’s
excellent movie criticisms, as good as any-
thing in that line being done by any daily
paper in Australia. Wilkinson’s father,
Frank, is also an Inky Wayfarer. He used
to be with the “Herald,” put in a term with
the “Telegraph,” and now lives at Broken
Hill.


Hanking, Public Companies, etc.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Terra Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
t interest for
fixed periods
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
HOTEL
METRO POLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3C Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
Experimenting!
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary experiments?
Cut waste and
advertise with a
“Result Bringer.”
“The
Telegraph ”
({Brisbane)
Has proved itself over
58 years a good “Result
Bringer” for all adver-
tisers.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co., Ltd,
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Representative:
N. L. ROBERTS,
Country Press Co-op. Co. of Aust., Ltd.,
Barrack Street, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d
Contains every tiling a woman needs to Jcnow,
Shipping, etc.
Holiday in HAWAII
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN Excursion Bookings are
now open to Australians planning to spend this Winter
in Hawaii’s summer sunshine. Leave on May 29, June 26 or
July 24 by the s.s. Niagara or Aorangi for a delightful voyage
via Auckland and Suva to Honolulu.
First Saloon, Second Saloon,
£75 - RETURN - £55
ALTERNATIVE TOURS ARE:
Auckland—Fiji Tonga
Samoa or Sydney •
Noumea Suva.
ALL PARTICULARS FROM:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George St., Sydney.
59 William St., Melb. C 1.
tiflx Vx
ggnn—
x\
Cj'
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN
LINE—EXCURSIONS
A
V
m
i /
smw
jkfb
M
k /
/
m
BURNS PHILP TOURS
A Visit to JAVA
THE GARDEN OF THE EAST.
Seven Weeks’ Wonderful Tour, including
about two weeks’ escorted motor trip
through Java.
Leaving Sydney by the magnificent liner
T.S.S. MARELLA, July 7, 1930.
Swimming Bath, Gymnasium, Deck Cabins, etc.
First-class inclusive fare from Sydney, £l2B
, TRAVEL—in Picture, Verse and Story,
u Read the “B.P. Magazine,” 1/- per copy. ,
K All Newsagents and Booksellers. X
VnvtULSriV * A3NQA.S IS IOQIHB Z.
an 63 ? diiHd SNdns
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
mmm
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
FOR 84 YEARS QUEENSLAND’S LEADING DAILY NEWSPAPER
The
BRISBANE
COURIER
The largest and most widely spread
Home-delivered morning newspaper in
Brisbane and Queensland. For 84
years the “Courier” has been the most
outstanding advertising medium of
Queensland, and still enjoys the
supreme confidence of all local and
national advertisers.
220,571 inches
The “Courier” during 1929 exceeded
its morning contemporary’s total adver-
tising space by 220,571 inches.
Published by
THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
COURIER BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
N.S.W. Rep.: Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Shipping, etc.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
sThemistocles 11,500 tons, May 16
*Ascanius . . 10,000 „ June 18
. 15,000 ~ Aug. 5
*Nestor .. . 15,000 „ Sept. 15
*First class only.
JFirst and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
i Joint
f Ag-ents
SPLENDID CHEAP SERVICE
Via Suez Canal.
FAST OIL, BURNERS
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued from Sept, to Feb., £32-
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
SPACIOUS DECKS—DECK CABINS—EXCELLENT
MENU—CINEMA—DANCE MUSIC REPRODUCED
WITH ELECTRIC AMPLIFIERS—
CANVAS SWIMMING BATH
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd,
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel.: 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
Tel.: 87512. 247 George Street, Sydney.
HuddartParkerLisi
Magnifloeiit
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUdDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
mm
r SCHUTE,
BELL&CIm
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CLUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISLAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAL ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World's Leading
Advertising Agencies.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.


Viz
A;
JjJmWSk
the Finish
Last
Longer
Every
Car Needs
SIMONIZ
Have you ever stop-
ped to realise how
important Simoniz is to
the finish of your car?
It’s just about indispens-
able in the care of DUCO
and lacquers.
Simoniz withstands the tests
of time and weather and gives
lasting protection that is so neces-
sary to make the finish last longer
and keep colors from fading. It
leaves a hard beautiful surface that
lasts for months and stands the wear
and tear the finish usually gets.
Then, too, it’s so easy to keep a
Simonized car looking clean and
bright, as all dust and dirt can be
wiped off with a dry cloth without
danger of marring or scratching the
finish.
Anyone can Simoniz a car, for Simoniz
and Simoniz Kleener are easily applied
with a cloth. Dull-looking, tarnished and
discolored finishes can be quickly re-
stored to their original lustre and beauty
with Simoniz Kleener. Then use Simoniz
lor that beautiful lasting protection.
Insist on SIMONIZ.
It makes the finish last longer.
Sold by all Good Motor Houses, Service Stations and
Hardware Stores at 2/9 Small Cans; 5/6 Large Cans,
In case you cannot obtain locally, see note below.
M
A
D
E
I
N
A
U
S
T
R
A
L
I
A
mm
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
SIMONIZ
PRODUCT—
SIMONIZ
PENETRATING
GRAPHITE
OIL
“LOOSENS THE TIGHTEST NUT.’*
Simoniz Penetrating Graphite Oil
instantly
DISSOLVES RUST,
LUBRICATES CAR SPRINGS,
STOPS CHASSIS AND BODY
SQUEAKS,
FREES GUMMED MOTOR VALVES,
LOOSENS ALL TIGHT NUTS
AND BOLTS.
Sold in handy Boz. can with long spout. Price 2/6.
IP YOU CANNOT OBTAIN SIMONIZ PRODUCTS
PROM YOUR USUAL DEALER, SEND POSTAL
NOTE TO
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS,
MOTORITE EQUIPMENTS PTY., LTD.,
188-96 Peel Street, North Melbourne.
FREE SAMPLES
OF SIMONIZ AND
IILEENER ON REQUEST-
s
AV,
Apply with a cloth
The BEENIE PATENT
HORSE RUG
USED ON ALL THE FOREMOST
RACERS, TROTTERS AND POLO
PONIES.
Easily Fixed —There to Stay
“A” quality, for turning out. Made of Thompson’s super
white bleached all-flax canvas, and lined with warm all-wool
check. ,
sft. 6in„ 52/6; sft. 9in., 54/6; 6ft., 56/-
“ES” quality, for yearlings and racers, in white Manhattan
duck, lined with warm all-wool check.
V*
V>.H>
Add 3/- per rug for parcels post in N. S. Wales.
Write for list of cheaper rugs —as low as 22/6 in other styles
and materials.
WE SPECIALISE IN SADDLERY, POLO GOODS, DOG GOODS,
AND PLAYTHINGS FOR BOYS AND GIRLS.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. BOX 785 G.
IT is immediate ease you require.
Zam-Buk is splendid for quickly
subduing the pain. Only, after dress-
ing with Zam-Buk, be sure to quickly
cover up with lint to exclude air.
Zam-Buk is remarkably soothing
to the painful skin. It comforts and
cools and takes out all ‘fire’ and irri-
tation. Being highly antiseptic,
Zam-Buk kills bad germs and thus
prevents formation of pus, festering
and poisoning. Zam-Buk soon covers
up the broken tissues with a growth
of new healthy skin.
You may need Zam-Buk at any moment.
Keepit alwayshandyfor cuts, burns, scalds,
eczema, ulcers, bad legs, poisoned wounds,
ringworm, scalp disease, piles, etc.
Pfliui*
1/6 box & 3/6 family size. All chemists.
Traction
Weed Tyre Chains grip
and hold in mud, sand or
slippery clay—provide
safe, sure traction on
treacherous or uncertain
roads.
Drive safely. Carry
Weed Tyre Chains al-
ways. Look for the name
“Weed” on every hook.
Order from your dealer.
AMERICAN CHAIN CO.
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
WEED
TYRE CHAINS
mm
See them
now—or
write for
full infor-
xn a t i o n
The Best
of comrades in the
field
v
V
V
There is No Better-Known pair of Single Shot, Twenty-Two
Caliber Rifles anywhere, than these two Stevens.
No. 17 "FAVORITE”—Lever Action chambered for .zz
long-rifle, .Z 5 rim-fire, or .3Z long rim-fire cartridges.
With z4-inch round barrel, and with stock and forearm of di-
mensions large enough to fit your needs. The drop-block, lever
action is unusually powerful. Shotgun-type butt with rubber
butt plate Stock and forearm of Walnut. German silver front
and sporting rear sight.
No. “LITTLE SCOUT”-chambered for .zz long
rifle cartridges.
A light, accurate rifle with zo-inch, round, tapered barrel.
Thumb operated drop breech block, positive extractor. German
silver, blade front |sight; flat top rear sight. Walnut finish
stock—steel butt plate, weight zlbs.
Exclusive Representative for Australia and New Zealand
ASHER SMITH, LTD. P. O. Box 966 Sydney, N. S. W.
J. STEVENS ARMS COMPANY
Export Offices: 100 East 42nd Street New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
STEVE N S
mm
Business, Robbery, etc.
South Aus. has had an inch or more of
rain, the firs,t this year, over all the wheat
districts, and is getting cheerful again. Prof.
Perkins, Director of Agriculture, thinks that
a record area of four million acres under
wheat may be touched this year.
* * * *
“P.X.” : The poor old camel used to think
it was about the only beast of burden that
could roam the tracks around Cawker’s Well,
somewhere outside Wilcannia. The other
day, however, a 20-ton tractor, dragging a
whole road-making outfit (men’s kitchen
included), ambled off from the nearest rail-
way point to do the 300-mile journey—and
managed it, too, on half a gallon of juice
to the mile. Fifteenpence a ton per mile
used to be a fair thing for haulage in those
parts.
* * * *
“N.Iv.C.”: Nobody who takes a ramble
round Melbourne can fail to note the number
of empty houses in both inner and outer
suburbs. My estate-agent’s explanation is
that landlords are desperately unwilling to
reduce rents from the peak period, which
tenants are no longer able to pay. Such a
sum as 355. is a big slice from the basic
wage, so the family crowds in somewhere
with another.
* * * *
“Shagreen”: Commercial exploitation of
Australia’s sea fauna is increasing. There
are several shark-catching companies now
operating in Australian waters, and these
are to be reinforced by Pacific Fishing In-
dustries, located at Lord Howe Island, 430
miles n.-e. of Sydney. Sharks are plentiful
thereabout, though the statement that four
men in a boat can catch over 100 sharks in
a day with handlines is mere leg-pulling.
* * * *
“N.Q.”: A quaint but flourishing local
industry is the gathering of cane-beetles on
the N.Q. sugar-fields when the cane is com-
ing to maturity. The “greyback” bores the
cane to lay its eggs, and the consequent
grubs play havoc. At 2s. a pound the beetle
harvest furnishes good money for out-of-
works. Time was when native birds kept
the beetle in check, but most of these have
been exterminated.
* $ * *
“Canfac”: Harvesting has commenced in
the ricefields at Leeton (N.S.W.). This
industry was originated by J. Brady,
manager of the State cannery, who bought
a bag of Calora rice seed from the U.S.A.,
and it is going to prove a big thing for the
irrigation area. This year it is estimated
that something like 30,000 tons will be har-
vested, worth approximately £250,000.
Storage has been made available at Leeton
and Murrami by the Rice Board, and it
looks as if for the first time in Australian
history there will be an exportable surplus.
But there is a lot of discontent over the
handling of the crop; some of the charges
appear outrageous.
* * =l= *
“Binduli” : When the Golden Mile was in
its heyday as a gold producer, three woodline
companies denuded vast tracts of neighboring
country of timber to supply fuel for the
insatiable furnaces. There was no apparent
alternative; the price of imported coal would
have been prohibitive and the local article
from Collie was found useless. The companies
ran light lines to the well-timbered areas,
taking them up and relaying them in new
directions as often as the need arose, and
for years their activities must have paid the
shareholders as richly as any goldmine. ; Yet
there were no concessions or sole rights
granted in any of the areas. Anybody could
go and cut wood of a certain size, but it
would have been useless when only the com-
panies had the facilities to get it to market.
The workers were a mixed lot, the settled
policy of some of the companies being to
employ not more tha*n half Australians and
Britishers, the remainder being Scandina-
vians, Italians and so on. They reckoned
the 50-50 ratio lessened the risk of strikes.
* :S * *
“Kariah” : The N.S.W. oyster-farmer has
many tribulations, and one of them is in
regard to trespass. As the Fisheries Act
stands, the “lessee cannot exclude people
from his leases.” Recently a boatload of
hoodlums who had a slight knowledge of the
Act rowed backwards and forwards -across
a lease which employs stick cultivation, and
the oars played havoc. The lessee remon-
strated, but the louts quoted the Act, and he
knew that he was powerless to have them
removed. It is quite possible to have £4OO
worth of oysters in four strips 100 yards
long by four feet wide, yet the possessor is
not permitted to fence this area. Even if he
did so a fisherman is quite entitled to break
it down and enter the base under the
pretence of looking for worms. With any
j luck, he may make off with £2O worth of
oysters. If the same man entered land
leased from the Crown for agricultural pur-
poses, the farmer could have him arrested
for trespass. Is it not just that the oyster
culturist should have the same right to
protect his property?
* * * *
Bill Beckett, Vic. Minister for Health, who
has been chairman of various racing clubs
and trotting associations, assured the Vic.
Upper House, when commending the Tote
Bill, that the volume of wagering in the
Cabbage Garden was not more than
£10,000,000 a year, and scoffed at the igno-
rance of people who put it at £40,000,000.
Beckett calculates that 40 per cent, of the 10
millions will come to the machine when it
is established on the principal courses, and
that this will mean £200,000 for the State
(for charity) and £200,000 for the race clubs.
* * * *
A Melbourne city property which has been
occupied intact since it was sold by the
Crown in 1837 was offered by auction the
other day, and withdrawn when the reserve
price wasn’t reached. It was bought by
one J. J. Peers at the first land sale in
Melbourne in 1837, and has been in the
family ever since. It has a G6ft. frontage
to Collins-street and a 313 ft. depth to Little
Collins-street, and is occupied by Hicks,
Atkinson and Sons’ drapery and William
Drummond and Co.’s jewellery store. One
property was passed in at £llO,OOO, and the
| other at £50,000.


Three times as many championships
won by Spalding - - - as by all other
golf balls combined
V
HRfIMR.
'
m . .'." - - g*3p- -.
“ r
,-:1 — 2&*&? ' ’
i igll ill isß
wmmmmmmm
■ft
#”9l
31
■
/-J
SiSi
iBiSBI
: ' ■ Xxx
IP
■
iiijf' 0 .
■ft * * , j
5* ''^TlpW
mm
.
\
, «. , ' «9s
■■■iMfi i M
- f ...» : ' ■-''
:|#« - . :
w;::, f/fe - .. .
Ik ! . ■ „., .... -..........x.;,, ; >-
|f* ; ■■■4ot ’
' ’’ :,.. ■ ■' . •
'■'■'■ j \-.■"■■ .*• ■'•
m
n
a
□
n 7
m
m
m
KRO
FIITE
n
□
X
A G blp. 2 Wood Shot from a difficult lie.
Above is shown a shot from a difficult hanging lie to a closely bunkered
green over two hundred yards away. - A Spalding No. 2 Kro-Flite
Registered Wood and a Kro-Flite Ball assist in obtaining! the accuracy
of placement made necessary by modern golf; course architecture.
The “Guillotine” Test —an edged knife, weighted, is propelled down-
ward at terrific speed. It is so devised that the knife hits a ball at the
bottom exactly as a club does on a topped shot. In every other ball
ever tested this knife has cut completely through the cover. The
worst it can do to a Kro-Flite is to dent it slightly.
DRIVES that sing down the
fairway for three hundred
yards or so iron shots true
and straight, dead in line with the
pin putts that click into the tin
with mechanical precision .....
People who play like this use
Spalding Kro - Flite as did the
Winner and the four next players
in the iast Australian Open.
No wonder leading sports stores
in Australia report more people
buying Kro-Flite than any other
ball. Because the normal golfer,
too, uses Spalding , Kro-Flite to
help his game.
i • _
. | - ,<» b.. Ci? ■
Long Life—Accuracy—Distance
You can’t cut the Spalding Kro-
Flite Ball. Even the most vicious-
ly topped shot won’t hurt the Kro-
Flite patented vulcanized cover. It
is the only golf ball which can
successfully pass the gruelling
guillotine test shown below.
And the Kro-Flite is sweet off the
face of the club.
Here is a Spalding Kro-
Flite Multi-Dot Mesh
golf ball—an increasing
favourite with Austral-
ians everywhere. Also
available plain mesh.
Both Kro-Flites 3 / 6 each.
The tight wound perfectly round
core gives a scientific balance
which makes for true driving and
steadiness in the wind. On the
green it makes accurate control
far easier—often saves the extra
putts that spoil the score.
Distance too has been provided.
Off the tee Kro-Flite travels far.
And it keeps its liveliness.
Now a New Development
The Kro - Flite multi - dot mesh.
Looks larger than the usual plain
ball because the new markings
bring out its sphericity, making it
easier to hit. Identifies the ball on
the fair-way. For durability, Kro-
Flite granite hard paint is excep-
tional.
72 holes of play are guaranteed
for every Spalding Kro-Flite Ball.
Spalding also makes two other
balls —the “Par” giving phenome-
nal distance; especially made for
Australian conditions and for
championship play. Price 3/6.
The “Sunshine” —a serviceable,
economical ball. Price 2/-.
Years of experience have given
Spalding world leadership in
quality and value for all kinds
of sporting equipment. At all
sports stores.
A. G. Spalding & Bros.
(N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd.
352 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Unusual Guarantee.
We absolutely guarantee replacement
of any Kro-Flite ball (whether Plain
or Multi-Dot) that is cut through or
becomes unplayable for any cause, or
on which paint deteriorates, in 7a
holes of play.
Improve your play with Kro-Flite Matched Clubs .
YOU play better golf if you get
the right clubs and stick
to them. Spalding Kro-Flite
matched clubs, both woods and
irons, are balanced just as they
should be. They have the right
feel—the right swinging weight.
They help your game wonder-
fully because you can time your
swing exactly the same with all
of them.
Spalding Kro-Flite sets of woods
and irons are weighted to match
exactly throughout their manu-
facture. Every operation is care-
fully checked. For registered
sets, numbers for each part are
kept on file. By specifying the
number you can add or replace
Kro-Flite clubs and have them
match in weight and feel with
your others.
Each iron has the “sweet spot”
marked upon its face. The mild
English steel used in the heads
absorbs the shock prevents
finger fatigue. Chromium plated,
Spalding irons will not rust or
discolor*
Order a set of Spalding Kro-Flite
Matched Clubs to-day. 3 woods,
Driver, Brassie, Spoon, £6/6/-;
7 irons, £l2/12/-. Single wood
40/- each, single iron 30/- each.
Spalding also makes two other
clubs. The “Crescent,” a splen-
did medium priced club. Woods
25/- each. Irons 17/6 or £4/4/-.
for a set of 5* The “Thistle,” a
good grade club at a popular
price. Woods 17/6 each, irons
10/6 each. At all sports stores.
Soaldine Kro-Flitc Clubs—registered and matched —have the same “swinging weight”—
the same feel always. You can add to your set or replace the same clubs any time—and
always have the weights balanced exactly right*


Repairs.
“OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS.”
Firearms sent C.O.D.
HERE'S A GUN OF QUALITY SELLING
AT A VERY LOW PRICE.
A very strong French 12-Gauge Hammerless
Gun for £B/10/-. It is only the rate of
exchange that makes it possible to give such
wonderful value. Note specifications: SOin.
barrels, left full-choke, right half-choke for
2sin. cartridges, auto safetv, extra strong
fastenings, weight 7Jib.
FISHERMEN!
Telescope Fishing Rods, 9ft. 6in., 15/-; with
agatised ring, 26/- and 30/-; postage 1/- extra.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
’Phone, MA3540.
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
154 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
(near Market Street).
Fishing Tackle to Tackle Fishing.”
You must try this
LIGHT BEER
RESCH’S
PILSENER
A Drink to Delight You.
AS A
PIKESTAFF
y
are the duplicates pro-
duced with a‘Mephisto*
Copying Pencil.
It lasts n uch larger
and writes much
smoother without
heavy pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
_ THE POPULAR
COPYING PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checking, etc.
From all Stationers, etc.
It. A C. HATtDT.UUTH. of "KOH-I-NOOR” Pencil fam<*
London Office— 2 y, Kingsway, W.C.2
Austra ian Representative -
JOHN MACDODGALL, P.O. Box 165. . SYDNEY,
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
It was the tote’s turn to lay a fantastic
price about Phar Lap on Saturday. With
only the aged mare Fruition to beat in the
Elder Stakes, w.f.a., at Morphettville
(S.A.), it looked 1000 to 1 on the champion.
He accomplished his task in his usual dash-
ing style, finishing five lengths ahead of
the mare (she was giving him 91b.!), with
Elliott hanging on to him, in lmin. 52sec.
for the nine furlongs: and hi,s astonished
backers collected £1 6s. for each £1 staked
in the stand. Certainly the best bet of the
year.
The Westralian-owned and Maoriland-
bred Prince Paladin, who had defeated
Fruition in the John Lewis Stakes at Chel-
tenham, was one of the favorites for the
Goodwood Handicap, but the local three-
year-okl Lady Adelaide had a slight call in
the betting. Neither, however, was placed,
victory going to one of the Melbourne con-
tingent, Doradus, who is by White Star —La
Chapelle. Alan Currie’s horse, who was
ridden by Jones, won very easily from Lind-
bergh and old Anton Prince in the smart
time of lmin. 13sec.; his div. (for £1) was
£5 18s. and Lindbergh’s £4 2s. But Temoin,
Victoria’s representative in the St. Leger,
was conquered by one of the local represen-
tatives, St. Mary. It was thought that St.
Mary would not stay, but a filly by St.
Spasa—Mary Medwyn ought not to be lack-
ing in stamina.
* * * *
When Phar Lap turned out far and away
the _ best horse of the year Colin Stephen,
chairman of the A.J.C. committee, cherished
high hopes of his little mare Voleuse, who
ran second to Phar Lap in a Juvenile Handi-
cap at Rosehill 13 months ago; but Voleuse
is still in the Novice Handicap class. Mar-
sala. a Tippler—Salve filly racing in the
Colin Stephen colors, may turn out better.
She finished with a good run in ,the first
division of the Maiden Juvenile Handicap at
Rosehill on Saturday and disposed of the
favorite, Alpen. The second division was
also captured by a Tippler—Tippo, a gelded
son of Woolara Maid. They were both out-
siders, Marsala being quoted at 14 to 1 and
Tippo at 25 to 1; the tote divs. on Tippo
‘with second and third payments also) were
£11 Is. for 10s. and £9 9s. for 5s.
It wasn’t all as bad as that for supporters
of the short-priced. Luita, backed from 2 to 1
to 10 to 9 on, gave Bartle a ride without one
anxious moment in the Auburn Handicap ;
and New Sweet (7 to 4) compensated G.
II. Moody for her perhaps unlucky defeat in
City Tatt.’s Cup by leading Stormy (5 to 2)
and Cathmar (5 to 1) home in the Rose-
hill Handicap. Carnella, moreover, had good
support (at fives) for the Granville Stakes,
which she just w r on from another tliree-year-
old, What About It, showing gameness at the
pinch. Carnella is by Caravel —Galtee
Queen, and is thus a half-sister to Vaals and
Sion.
* # # #
For the Tatt.’s meeting at Randwiek:—
Flying Handicap : Luita ; next, High Dis-
dain.
Tatt.’s Stakes: Voleuse; next, Vercoola.
James Barnes Stakes: Gwillian G.; next,
Ka«valli.
Welter Handicap: Pavilion; next, Pata-
dawn.
* * * *
Though fields w r ere small at Sandown Park
(Vic.), the generality of punters could not
pick ’em. Their troubles began when Pit-
fodels (12 to 1), a gelding by that good
handicap horse of other da*ys Rael Locin,
had an easy win in the Trial Handicap ; then
they saw Blematic, favorite (at ll to 8) for
the Sandown Plate, beaten into second place
b" 17 the Queensland colt Wise Foi-ce (6 to 1)
and deprived of that position because the
jockey weighed in light. What a howl there
would have been if they had finished the
other way about! Then two outsiders,
Blarwyn and Padorus (each 12 to 1), were
respectively first and second in the Brush
Steeplechase.
Left at the post at Mentone, Grecian Fire
was made favorite for the Sandown Park
Handicap, but third to Liquid Cry (6 to 1)
and Cave King (6 to 1) was the best he
could do. Liquid Cry is owned by D. E.
Castle and is by Magpie—Ettefred. Cobran-
veil (2 to 1) was the only favorite to score;
he made the others look like tenth-raters in
the Jumpers’ Flat. They included Triplex,
who has won in fair company on Sydney
courses, though it is a< long time ago.
“0.P.H.”; A few minor amendments to
tribe incMsing after' April a (tfc day the
present session began) failed, as also
did an effort to exclude skirted speculators.
The State’s share of the deductions to be
made by clubs using the machine is to be
Sied^y 5 the “he
tribe of Mcs! mops mSe than 60 pc. of
the total wagered on Vic. courses, it is all
Collins-street to a Croajingolong quarter-acre
that the betting-ticket tax will be increased
bfnSf a thumping license fee wiU W t 0
1 0 * *
‘
“Thormanby”: Two of the English classic
events were run off last week, the Two Thou-
sand Guineas for colts and fillies and the One
Thousand Guineas for the flappers alone. The
first was won by Hugo Hirst’s Diolite, ( a colt
by Diophon from Needle Rock, the dams pedi-
gree running back to Isinglass. Lord Derby
started wha<t looks like another successful
season bv winning the ladies’ race with Fair
Isle, by Phalaris,. whose stock is coming mto
notice in Australia.
* * * *
There was general disappointment in Aus-
tralia a*t the news that Strephon had been
scratched for all engagements. The big
fellow did not settle down to European
winter conditions as well as was hoped,
though his owner tempered the wind to him
by giving him a preliminary sojourn in the
South of France. The horse had the addi-
tional bad luck to strike a* particularly
atrocious, specimen of the English spring, and
this no doubt was the finishing touch. How-
HIS MISTAKE.
REFEREE: “Any more trouble and I’ll get the local constable to lake a hand.”
CHORUS OF HOME SIDE: “That’ll do us; that’s him you’ve just sent off.
ever, he has all his best years ahead of him
and may yet rival Merman by capturing the
Ascot Gold Cup, which was his owner’s chief
objective this year.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
If grit and toughness were the only fac-
tors necessary in the making of a successful
pug, Louis Vauclard would be a world-
beater. Louis gave a great display of
these qualities in his second fight at
Sydney Stadium against Jimmy Pearce,
the Newcastle (N.S.W.) middleweight, but
they failed to land him a winner, Pearce
collecting a points verdict at the end of 15
torrid rounds. Nevertheless the Frenchman
went within a tick of victory in a
hair-raising thirteenth round, when he
had Pearce down for nine. From the open-
ing Pearce smashed rights to the jaw, and
in the second two rights under the heart
stopped the Frenchman dead in his tracks as
he ca<me boring in. He wasn’t idle him-
self by any means, but up to the end of
the tenth round was a mile behind. Vauclard
made up a lot of leeway over the closing
rounds. Pearce mixed it with him sturdily,
though the final bell was welcome to both.
Vauclard, list 51b.; Pearce, list. 2|lb.
The Watermen
Victorian oarsmen got their first taste of
the King’s Cup at Mannum (S.A.) when
they defeated .the N.S.W. crew by a bare
three feet after a punishing race. Queens-
land, Tasmania a*nd South Australia
followed, a long way back, while Westralia
with a broken slide did not finish. The leading
pair were locked level a few yards from home,
when, with a final kick by McKay of Mercan-
tile, the Victorian stroke, the Yarrasiders
secured the coveted pot. This is the first time
Vic. has won an inter-State championship
since 1912. J. R. Scott, of N.S.W., won the
sculls easily from Queenslander A. Buckley.
* * *
The race for the championship of the
Victorian G.P.S. was rowed at Geelong on
the Barwon River on Saturday, and won,
after a re-row had been ordered, by Mel-
bourne Grammar from Wesley College. Gee-
long Grammar, which started in the final,
was disqualified for fouling Wesley. Mel-
bourne, a heavy crew, led all the way in the
second attempt, and covered the mile course
in smin. 35 l-ssec.
Hi » X *
“Shell”: A dreadful shock was experi-
enced in Australian rowing circles last
week when it was learned that the
incomparable Bobby Pearce had passed
the medical examination for the N.S.W.
police force. Anxious inquiries have been
made as to whether he intends to fulfil
his Empire Games engagement, but Robert
himself asserts he is in no danger of being
ealled up before his return from Canada in
September. In any case, the champion is to
be commended for looking further ahead than
most athletic heroes of his type have done in
the past. There is little for him or anyone
else in amateur or professional sculling nowa-
days, and the police force offers a fine oppor-
tunity for a hefty lad of his physique and
character.
* * * *
“FY7”: The cabled announcement that
W. A. Barry, “father of the world’s pro-
fessional sculling champion,” is dead fell
coldly on ears attuned these days to other
things. A great oarsman himself, winner of
Doggett’s Coa«t and Badge, and champion of
England to boot, he was a famous coach, and
his nephew, Ernest, who came out to Aus-
tralia to win back his title from Digger
Felton on the Parramatta, owed much to
him. I can recall the long-ago day when a
special horse express was organised between
Blackall and a Central Queensland station
25 miles away. Blackall was then the end
of the telegraph for that part of the country,
and the meeting between the world-famous
Canadian sculler Hanlan and one W. Beach
of N.S.W. was due. Leaving out the tele-
phone and the radio, who would take that
trouble to-day over a mere sculling cham-
pionship ?
Footbrawl
The 30,000 who crowded the big Carlton
Oval on Saturday have a distinct grudge
against Richmond for enticing them there
in the expectation of a good game against
Carlton. For two hours the Richmond
Tigers were tame pussycats, too slow to get
out of their own road, marking vilely and
kicking futilely. At half-time the locals
were 7 goals to the good, and all interest
faded. When the timekeepers ended the
rout Carlton had 116 points up to Rich-
mond’s 47. Across the suburbs at Victoria
Park Hawthorn put up a different sort of
game against Collingwood. Under the tuition
of “Jiggy” Harris. Collingwood’s former
wing forward, Hawthorn lias improved out
of sight, and the premiers had to go all out
to finish with 78 points to Hawthorn’s 70.
Footscray also seems to he mending its ways,
and beat Essendon for' the first time
since joining the League, six years
ago. Footscray’s pace in the first quar-
ter ran Essendon off its legs, and accumu-
lated 30 points to nil. Essendon finished
with only 58 points to ’Scray’s 74. Mel-
bourne, mainly through the efforts of Warne-
Smith, Taylor and Margitich—the latter just
acquired from Adelaide —put it all over Gee-
long with a score of 100 points to 63. Fitz-
roy managed to get the better of North Mel-
bourne with 65 to 45. St. Kilda .held South
Melbourne comfortably throughout: Saints,
106 points; South, 78.
❖ # *
South' Sydney had an easy gallop against
Balmain in the third round of the Rugby
League grade games, winning by 23-8 —
5 tries a*nd 4 goals to 2 tries and a goal.
Forward and back the Southerners were too
clever, in spite of the slippery footing at
Wentworth Oval, and though Balmain had
the better of the serums it could do little
good when in possession. Newtown, a
much improved team this season, beat North
Sydney 27-18. The Newtown backs were
the dominating feature, though L. Carroll
was outstanding a<s North Sydney’s fullback,
getting 15 points. University scrambled home
from St. George at Ea-rl Park, scoring 10 to
9, or 2 tries and 2 goals to a try and 3 goals.
Ward, a pony halfback, was very clever
behind Uni.’s scrum. At the Sports Ground,
Western Suburbs was too good for its
brethren from the East side, getting home
comfortably by 24-12. Handling was very
good in spite of ba-d weather conditions, the
Western men being particularly certain.
s*s sjs :j:
The second round of the Rugby Union
competitions in Sydney revealed disappoint-
ing form in one or two cases. Though Rand-
wick beat Eastern Suburbs 16-3 at the
Cricket Ground, there was not much between
the sides until the Randwick backs at last
unwound in the closing stages. Crossman
was again in scoring form, catching 3 tries
and two goals. The Eastern forwards, led
by Comrie-Thomson, had by no means the
worst of it. University has furnished into
an unexpectedly good side, and the win over
the strong Northern Suburbs team at Uni.
Oval by 14-10 was meritorious. Lamport was
in great form behind the pack. Manly
surprised by drawing 14-14 with the premiers..
Western Suburbs, at the seaside oval.
Manly’s backs strove manfully aga-i list-
superior forwards. Stewart again played a
great fullback game for the premiers. St.
George gave the heavy Glebe-Balmaiu side
a good go for it at Hurstville, going down in
a hard game by 31-5. The Ford brethren
were conspicuous for the winners, while the
ex-’Varsity forward, Rosenblum, headed a.
determined St. George pack.
% si: *
The Maoriland Rugby Union annual for
1930, published by Australia’s old Rugby
friend W. G. Slade, of Wellington, contains
all the original features which have made it
such an invaluable reference in Rugby mat-
ters in the past, and several new ones of
interest. Among these is the itinerary of
the British team, which begins with a match
against Wanganui on May 21. Others are
lists of the British team in the Argentine
in 1928 (which included several of the side
due in Australasia this season), and of the
almost forgotten American Universities XV
which played in N.S.W. and M.L. in 3910.
“S.T.S.” : “Whacker” Scott, who is leading
Norwood, last year’s premiers, again, has
played in 150 games for his club and in 35 con-
secutive matches for his State. He has
four times won a trophy for being the best
man on the side. “Whacker” succeeded Vic
Richardson as Norwood’s captain.
(Continued on page 36.)
The first day of the Australians’ match
against Yorkshire was another triumph for
Grimmett, ably backed by ’keeper Walker.
Yorkshire started well with 59 up when
Holmes went to Grimmett for 31. Though
Sutcliffe batted excellently for 69, none of
the others could stay, the South Australian
collecting all 10 wickets for 37. None of the
other Australian bowlers could do much on a
wicket described as easy, but the Tykes ended
up with 155 on the board. Australia had
lost Ponsford (6) for 69 at stumps, Woodfuil
(37) and Bradman (22) being the not outs.
Only two Australian bowlers have equalled
Grimmatt’s feat —W. Howell against Surrey
in 1599 and A. Mailey against Gloucester-
shire in 1921. Walker stumped three and
caught one off his fellow South Australian.


ADELAIDE’S
Most Modern Hotel
THE
HOTEL BOTANIC
NORTH TERRACE, CITY.
Delightfully Situated
Garden Frontage
Balcony Rooms
All Latest Appointments.
IRRIGATION PLANTS
Call for less attention—Operate at lower cost. Proved the finest. Complete
Installation on the market—comprising
IMPERIAL OIL ENGINES
Save pounds because they ran on Crude Oil.
IMPERIAL CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
IMPERIAL SPRAY SYSTEMS
Numbers now in use. i .
We are experts on Water Conservation Problems, and will advise you concerning
your special proposition. Special particulars forwarded free.
a. h. McDonald & co. pty., ltd.
SHOWROOMS AND WORKS: 566-574 BRIDGE ROAD, RICHMOND, El, VICTORIA
(12 Minutes from City—Take Flinders Street Tram).
Branches at Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
W-McF.
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
to 0!
W. W. GREENER LTD., Birmingham
Wholesale Australian Representatives •
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD..
405-07 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, C,l.
•. It was acpook race!
<3E-RT f WHAT DO YOU ME AN
Dert *. Our horse vvtesS,
Pulled, 1 '
<Sl=-RT : IT? I WISH XT ,
Ht\ D BEEN PUSHED,
Footbrawl
Fitzcray”: The Victorian Football League
in its zeal for reform has decided to appoint
an independent board to select umpires. In
the past this has been the job of the permit
and umpire committee, made up of club dele-
gates, a plan which has given so little cause
tor satisfaction that a permanent committee
of six will take over the responsibility. The
motion appointing it went through bv 19
votes to 1.
* * * w
“Everton”: The British football season
wound up with Sheffield Wednesday at the
km’h of the Soccer League first division,
with Derby County runners up. Everton and
rJurnley, once in the first flight of Lan-
cashire sides, were in the two bottom places,
and have been dropped to the second division
in consequence. The Rugby League final
was won by Widnes, which defeated anothei*
Lancashire club in St. Helens at Wembley.
**; * *
Tim British Rugby team is due to make
its M.L. landfall this week, and will open itd
tour of the Shivery Isles at Wanganui, in a
match against the Province,, on May 21. The
tourists will play 21 matches, including four
lests, finishing up at Nelson on August 13.
J rom there they come on to Australia to
play a series of matches in Victoria, N.S.W.
and Queensland. By the time the team
reaches this side of the Tasmarn it should
nave been fairly well sharpened on the All
Black grindstone. However, if this year’s
Australian side is anything like up to the
calibre of last season’s the Britons will have
to go their hardest.
“Two Blues”: Something new in Aus-
tralian Rugby Union football will •be the
visit to Brisbane at the end of May of Sydney
Grammar School to play two matches against
the local G ; P:S. sides.. Their Chief opponent
will be Brisbane Grammar, a famous foot-
ball school which lias contributed many
representatives to inter-State and inter-
national teams, some of them, like H. P.
Abbott, while they were, still at school. This
is a record rarely achieved anywhere save
in Scotland, where it is not unusual to see
Slayers from one of the big Scottish schools
guring in the international side.
* * *
“Gate”: The M.L. Rugby League side
will play its first match in Australia on
Sydney Sports Ground on July 5, and the
itinerary will include a visit to Queensland
and a couple of matches in N.S.W. country
districts. In order to enable the visitors to
muster their full strength' the N.S.W. and
Queensland Leagues have resolved to throw
£5OO each into the kitty for presentation to
the M.L. League.
The Fifteen
Grimmett was again the outstanding bowler
in the Australians’ drawn game with Leices-
ter, taking 7 for 46. The county went for
148, after the opening batsmen, Shipman
(63) and Berry (50), had started the score
with 103 up for one wicket. Wall showed
better form than in the first match and
took 3 for 37. Walker kept wicket in great
style, dismissing four batsmen. Rain stopped
play when Australia had scored 365 for 5
wickets, Bradman again coming to the front
"with a great score of 185 n.o. Even more
cheering was a dashing 100 by Vic Richard-
son. Geary, with 4 for ’B5, proved as
dangerous as he was in Australia with
Chapman’s side.
♦l* ¥ •!* i\:
Australia won a fine sporting match
against Essex at Leyton on a wicket which
at no time was easy for the batsmen. Good
bowling by Palmer, a right-hand off-break
artist, and Hipkin, a slow left-hander, dis-
missed the tourists for 156. Kippax played
an invaluable shot for 57, and was supported
by Ponsford (39), none of the others reach-
ing the twenties. Essex made a fair start: over-
nightj but the sun on the drying wicket next
morning gave ITornibrook his chance. The
Queensland left-hander was the chief factor
in dismissing the home side for 67, taking
6 wickets, 4 of them clean bowled, for 11
runs. Australia, declared at 264 for 6 wickets
in the second innings, Woodfull catching 54
and Kippax again playing fine cricket for
42. Fairfax helped with a solid 53 n.o.
Essex did a little better in their second
essay,. which ended at 146, leaving Australia
the winner by 207 runs. Hornibrook again
did well, this time on a batsman’s wicket,
his tally being 4 for 29, or 10 for 40 in the
match, a performance which should silence
his Australian critics. A’Beckett opened his
bowling account , with 2 for 13, and the in-
valuable Grimmett was again on the spot
with 3 for 57. C. J. Bray, the Essex cap-
tain, played a fighting innings for 32, and
J. A. Cutmore, a professional, top-scored with
a pluckily hit 39.
* * * *
“Aigburth.”: Don Bradman, by compiling
421 for once out in the two opening matches
of the tour, has put up a record for Australian
batsmen. Only two others have equalled his
feat of making a double century on his first
appearance in England. The first was H. H.
Massie, who made 206 against Cambridge
University in 1882, and the second W. M.
Woodfull, with 201 against Essex in 1926.
Eight other Australians have topped the 200
mark in England. They are W. L. Murdoch
(twice), Harry Graham, Victor Trumper, M.
A. Noble (twice), W. W. Armstrong (twice),
W. Bardsley (twice), C. G. Macartney
(twice) and ,T. M. Taylor.
* * * *
“Kensington”: What with the famous
Board of Control contract, which is induc-
ing ribald comment from press and public
all over England, and with' the managerial
ukases against autographing and flying, the
Australian team is having its leg weir pulled.
Even its clothing lias attracted attention,
someone having written to the press com-
plaining that the players attend oflicial
luncheons in sac suits instead of the regu-
lation morning coa*t and striped trousers, with
top-hat accompaniment. However, there is
yet time to reform, and it is probable that
the “Tailor and Cutter,” that mould of
fashion and guide to sartorial form, will be
out with a few scathing suggestions for
improvement before many days have passed.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: The N.S.W. amateur
championships are set down for the Aus-
tralian Club’s course at Kensington from
June 7 to 21. Ivo Whitton, of Victoi'ia, won
the singles last year,, and may defend his
title. If he does, he will be up against a for-
midable array of young local players, among
them Ilattersley and Keane. Another entry
of interest is that of the schoolboy Ferrier,
who will play with his father, secretary of
Manly Club, in the foursomes event.
* * * *
“Brassey”: Sydney’s public golf courses
are being added to rapidly. In a few days
the Lakes Club, out Mascot way, will open
nine holes of its public course, which flanks
the now completed private round of 18 holes.
A club house is being built, and the chhrge
will be Is. per round of nine holes or 2s. 6d.
for the day. Woollahra Council has nearly
completed its nine-hole course at Woollahra
Park. No club will be formed and the course
will be for the use of local residents and
ratepayers only.
* * *
“Midironski”: I note from the cables
that my comrades of the .Russian Soviet
have been squealing about golf being a
game for aristocrats only. One birdski
over in London with the Russian mission
said that there wasn’t a golf club in all
Russia. He is to be congratulated in a way,
but he is wrong in saying that the game is
not open to the proletariat. Everyone inter-
ested knows of the innumerable courses in
England and Scotland which are free to
Comrades. There _ are some in Australia,
also. Moore Park is a case in point. Any-
one who has got up at daylight to do a
round on that notorious course will agree
with me that the true Bolshevist spirit pre-
vails there. In 20 minutes I have been
driven through, driven over, and robbed of
golf balls, to say nothing of getting a black
eye from a gentleman whose partner pointed
me out and said “’Ere’s ther cove wot insulted
me by sayin’ I played ther wrong ball.”
* * * *
“Hamilton”: Queensland, which already
boasts one or two “cuckoo” golf clubs—
meaning by that clubs which have no
courses of their own, but play on those
of others as opportunity offers—is to have
one devoted to returned soldiers. It is sug-
gested that it be called the “Diggers’ Club,”
and enthusiasts are busy on the organisation
work. As most of the leading players and
golf . officials, including General Cannan,
president of the Queensland Golf Association,
as well as the bulk of the professionals,
are Diggers, the club should be able to fur-
nish a hot side.
* * * *
“•Corvus”: Most Australian golfers are
familiar with the ball-stealing crow, bfkt
Lithgow (N.S.W.) has evolved a particu-
larly fiendish variety. So far this sooty
fowl has got away with 60 balls. That is
bad enough, but he rubs it in by ignoring
repaints and chipped balls, and taking only
the newest and most expensive varieties. If
one could only* train a bird like that to do
one’s bidding, one of the chief drawbacks
to golf, the high cost of easily lost pills,
would be practically wiped out.
* * * *
“Susie Swatlit”: English golf got a bit
of its own back from the American variety
the other day, when a team of American
associates, headed by Glenn a Collett, was
beaten by a team of British golferettes, led
by Molly Gourlay. The foursomes were
squared, but the British lionesses took the
singles by six games to four, the Gourlay
beating the Collett 2 up in their match. Most
of the. visiting Americans are entered for
the British women’s championships, and may
retrieve themselves then.
Car and Cycle
“Control” S. F. Edge, one of the pioneers
of the British motor industry and a mighty
wheelman and speed driver in bygone days,
ha-s Just been checking up his record since
he first drove a car in 1895. Since then he
has covered 600,000 miles, and has never had
his license marked in all that time. As a
car-designer and inventor of gadgetsi he
has built up a great reputation, while his
firm also specialises in motor-boat and aero-
plane engines. To cap off, he is the only
Briton to win the Gordon Bennett Cup road
race, the blue ribbon of the game, which
takes place annually in France.
* * * *
“Tuart” : General Motors’ group of cars—
Chevrolet, Buick, Marquette, Vauxhall, Pon-
tiac, Oldsmobile, Oakland, Cadillac and La
Salle—are famous for their sporting and tour-
ing feats,. but the company has other achieve-
ments to its credit. It is estimated that 20,000
Australians in six States help to produce
and service General Motors cars and trucks.
General Motors (Australia) Pty. is the
largest . buyer of Australian-made bodies,
Australian tyres, Australian batteries, Aus-
tralian wool (for weaving its upholstery
fabrics) and Australian paint and duco.
In 1926 it established great plants in Sydney,
Melbourne,■Adelaide, Brisbane and Perth, and
has since then spent £12,000,000 in Aus-
tralia*. Its policy is to employ Australian
workers and purchase all possible Australian
materials. A worthy policy and a great
record!
“Eehunga”: The first reliability trial of
the South Australian Women’s Motor-cycle
Club provided a characteristically humorous
interlude. In announcing the results tin-
judges note that one young lady: arrived at
the control 10 minutes ahead of schedule.
Through talking to some friends she forgot
all about checking in, and was finally clocked
half a minute late. This lost her a point,
and threw her out of the subsequent re-run.
# ❖ ❖ #
“Roller”: A big professional road-racing
event which is being organised in Melbourne
is a spin from Sydney to Melbourne, to
take place in October next. The organiser,
Ralph Small, is sailing for Europe shortly to
study the arrangements for the coming Tour
dc France. He is also to book a team
of Continental riders to appear in Australia,
and since a ride round this continent is out
of the question, hopes to substitute for it
a Tour-of-Tasmania event when he returns,
in addition to the inter-city run. By all
accounts, Tasmanian roads and terrain should
be a severe test for the very best of our
wheelmen.
Miscellaneous
“Backwoodsman” : England’s team to meet
the Australian bowlers is composed entirely
of internationals. It will be opposed by a
side largely made up of second-, third- a*ud
umpteenth-grade bowlers. This is due to the
feet that the Australian custom of making
selected men pay all their ow r n expenses
eliminates many of the cracks, who cannot
foot the heavy bill. Their places are taken
by affluent duds, who have no claim what-
ever to represent Australia or any other
country.
* * * #
_ “Susie Swattit”: The Australian hockey
girls are going to earn their nose powder on
the South African tour, since they will have
to play 18 matches in 64 days, on a tour
that will take them from Capetown to Bula-
wayo and back with many detours in
between. The team leaves Australia on May
16, and opens against Eastern Province at
Port Elizabeth on June 28. Test matches
will be played against South Africa, Eng-
land and Scotland, both of the latter coun-
tries being also engaged in pulling the hair
of the local oats. In addition, there will
be matches against South African clubs and
centres up to September 5, when the three
visiting sides leave for England.
* * * *
“Chase”: Though Australia may harbor
only two tennis courts (B. 5/3/’3O), the
older cities of Britain contain many of
them. Oxford and Cambridge each boast's
at least one court, while there are others
at Liverpool and Manchester. -London has
four —at Prince’s, Lords, Hampden Court
and Queen’s. Since this last club and
ground, once famous as the head centre of
many sports, has now been handed over to
lawn tennis, I am not so sure that the Royal
Tennis Court still stands, though it probably
does because of its traditions. In Eastern
America there are many courts, those in
New York, Boston and Philadelphia being
the best known, since they have a fairly
ancient history.
❖ * # 5}C
“Aileron”: The first flying yacht has
arrived. It has just been completed in Britain
to the order of A. E. Guinness, one of that
family on whose revered name the sun never
sets. He intends to employ it for his frequent
journeys across St. George’s Channel, as well
as for holiday cruises about Europe. Stout
fella, indeed.


To talk with Oldsmobile owners
is to realize the exceptionally
high standing this car has in
Australia
The high regard Oldsmobile owners
have for their cars—the measure of
satisfaction they enjoy—is the best
indication of Oldsmobile value.
A sense of owner pride in the
car itself, aided by enthusiasm for
its qualities, gives to Oldsmobile
its greatest tribute and finest
advertisement.
To talk with these proud and
enthusiastic owners is to realize
that an Oldsmobile owner is a
satisfied owner. And after listening,
the urge is to become an Olds
owner yourself.
You’ll want to take the wheel of
the car regarded so highly—to feel
its power, its speed, to take it over
hills—to experience its smoothness;
its roadability —to revel in its
smartness and style.
1.- 'J»
hJ
Bi
m
L
I
mm
These tests of personal ex-
perience can be arranged im-
mediately with your nearest dealer.
That same dealer will explain the
service facilities present owners
enjoy, and the G.M.A.C. terms plan
which can aid you to easy owner-
ship.
O LDSMOBI L E
Thousands of Satisfied Owners
Serving
I
look inside and note the difference /
It's a GENERAL MOTORS
car —


f
k
nr
//A
in l
\\m
u
A
i
W/
ar
ur
r,
l
V,
//
//
06
//T/7A/
but WOLFE’S
No other liquor
SCHNAPPS for
years
Scene: The bar of a typical bush inn. On a bench the oldest inhabitant, 91
years of age, sound in limb and wind, bright of mind and eye. To the question
that is ever Welcome, “Will you join us?” he replied :—
Thank you, mister, I will. I’ll take a drop of Wolfe’s Schnapps. It’s
been my one drink for as long as I can remember. Good stuff, too!
I reckon it’s kept me going.”
By no means an isolated incident. A slight kidney or bladder disturb-
ance to-day may become a chronic complaint to-morrow, necessitating
regular medical attention. Wolfe’s Schnapps has a pronounced diuretic
action, and will keep bladder and kidneys functioning in a perfectly
normal manner. And it definitely costs you less to keep fit by the
occasional use of Wolfe’s Schnapps than by resorting to physic.
WOLFE'S
Orforruxlu: Sdu&dam
SCHNAPPS
“As good for women as for men.”
\
4
M'A
XI
/v
sr
/
m
: V V \ -v-t
%' >-


?|Vniunio
2mm
SSk
7hp centre of Queens /onc/s
' ct/sS/ngu/shect Soc/O'/ Life.
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone , Central 5780 —10 Lines.
mm
To
enhance
your beauty
OEAIITY of face is best
framed in a wealth of
charming hair. Make the most of your
hair as a background for your beauty by
using Rowland’s Macassar Oil twice a day.
Comb the oil well into your hair, when it
will show the gloss of health, and weak
and falling hair will be a thing of the past.
0} all Chemuts
Stores and Hair-
dressers. Red
for dark hair.
Golden for fair
or grey hair.
HWancTs
Macassar Ofi
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W. 0.1.,
ENGLAND.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
fe4
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
Under'
Royal
Warrant
mm
Kin*
GeorgeV
Vintage 1920.
CH AIVIPAGIME
mm
Australasian Agents -
S wift & Company u ini taJ
SYDNEY.
<i£3 •?
CHAMPACNt,
Giarieslleidsies
REIMS
l*. i -'J ».*>**
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
10 YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agfenia—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Have you ordered
kroft Cheese?
Alfred Meeks and his lady, she in amber
velvets, stood against a background of golden
chrysanthemums and blazing zinnias to wel-
come one and all to the Royal Empire
Society’s party last week, and not till the
last belated guest had arrived did the two
call it a night. The singing of Hilda Boyle
and Charlie Smythe made the evening memor-
able. The Higgins girls, the Three Graces,
attended father and mother ; Mrs. Mackenzie
Adams was impressive in jetted black, and
Mrs. Fred Daniell contributed graceful black
laces to the well-dressed assembly.
Sydney has two more women architects
to its credit. They are Barbara Peden and
bright-faced Helen Turner, who carried off
her degree with honors from the. recent
graduation ceremony at the University.
Helen is the first lass to obtain honors in
this subject. She lives at Roseville with
father and mother, and during her school
days at Bowral and Parramatta showed a
strong bias towards mathematics. On gradua-
tion day she was one of the most popular
girls in sight. And she had been one of the
busiest—had been on the board of the Uni.
Women’s Union a<nd on the committee of the
Women’s Sports Association. Almost an
identical University career was run by Bar-
bara Peden, youngest daughter of the poli-
tical Professor of the Law School. For some
time she was president of the Women Tinder-
grads., she was vice-president of the Sports
Association and of the Architectural Society
—Helen has been its treasurer. Both girls
are keen cricketers.
People who know Mrs. Venour Nathan will
remember her dance interpretation of the
Aeroplane song from “Going Up!”
First you sway
And then you start to rise—
You’re on the way
That leads to Paradise.
It often ended with the lady poised on the.
piano stool. Now Mrs. Nathan is lea-rning
to fly in earnest, and is just about ready to
claim her pilot’s certificate. She has had
her rehearsals at Bowral.
If this Letter were asked who was the
Demon of this city it would name Noise
as the Supreme. A few years ago in narrow
streets of Darlinghurst it was practically
impossible to get a wink of sleep before
daybreak because of the hailstorm of poker
chips rattling about the flats to the right
and the left and in front of you. Then. with
a shriek of delight the inhabitants discov-
ered that player-pianos and radios could
make far more row than poker chips, so
player-pianos and radios were installed. To
gloat in peace over the noise they had evoked,
the owners took to a card game known as
bridge. Then the dwellers in flats were one
day given notice that musical noises had
to cease in the vicinity of eleven o’clock. In
addition, owing to the impatience of the
Now altogether!
dealers in piano-players, scores of the instru-
ments of torture were removed from their
old haunts; and others of them had gone
dead owing to guests at parties mistaking
them for canned herring, and pouring
tomato sauce, stout and even cocktails into
their entrails. Something had to be done —■
some of the streets after midnight had be-
come almost demoralising in their stillness.
Then the oldest inhabitant: remembered
poker. With a shriek of delight the saucers
and the chips were rediscovered, and the
streets rattle again till daybreak to the good
old hailstorm.
The Blaxland Galleries, with their pro-
menade balconies, their red lacquer furnish-
ings, and massed with chrysanthemums and
dahlias in warmest tones of gold arid red,
were an effective setting for Lewisham’s
yearly ball. The very name of that hospital
is a porous plaster, and hundreds turned up
to dance for the good of its treasury. Doctors
were everywhere, and if they absent-mindedly
murmured “Ninety-nine” as they gazed on
peerless shoulder-blade after shoulder-blade
(for many of the frocks were backless) they
swallowed their words with a great draught
of the non-alcoholic fruit-juice that doctors
always drink because of what alcohol does
to the liver. The frocks were of the no-
economy order. They were of stiff moire,
of satin, of lace, of chiffon. They, were long,
they wore bustles, they were Princess, and
their panels occasionally flapped the floor
like the tails of festive fishes.
President Miss Kate Egan wore flowing
black chiffons and lace and was decked with
a posy of red roses and violets. With her
were cousin Mrs. Leon Lyons and her tall
husband, the Du Boises, the Laidley Morts,
Frank Kirby and Dr. Bill McKay. Mrs.
Lyons’s pomegranate-pink moires wore a
hustle bow with elongated ends. Mrs. Harry
Daly, who was one of the secretaries, brought
her doctor. Her fair good looks sparkled
above black moires on which great yellow
flowers ran riot. Eileen H’ollingdale, another
secretary, was princessy in powder-blue
moire, and Dorothy Meagher flicked mul-
berry lace into the night’s design. Mrs.
John Bridge toned perfectly with the red
lacquer tables, and Rita Fox glimmered in
white satin.
This is.not a Be Kind to Animals Week
story. A young man who went a-wooing a
new girl took with him a millionaire-ish
bunch of violets. He lifted them with rever-
ence from his Baby Austin, for were they
not about to adorn his fair? He carried
them a bit sheepishly past schoolgirl sister,
who opened the door and showed him into
the drawing-room, and he felt oppressed with
the belief that small brother was watching
him through the crack of the not-quite-closed
Saying it with Flowers.
door. Then —joy ! —his eye caught in the
half-gloom of a sofa-head the sight of a
heaped-up fur of soft brown tones. He
decided that he would pin the monster bunch
of violets on the fur and watch, his girl’s
pretty surprise when she found his offering.
He swiftly stooped over the head of the sofa,
and drove the pin, provided by the florist,
into the silky pelt. A shriek like a ferry
whistle gone mad rent the air, and his girl's
pet dog, complete with violets, hurled itself
across the room, struck with the impact of
shrapnel against the legs of his incoming-
mistress, who lobbed head first at the young
man’s feet. The young man is. now looking
for a girl who shudders at the sight of a dog.
The closing years of the life of Mrs.
Consett Stephen, who died after a long ill-
ness last week, were clouded by many sor-
rows. Her brilliant boy Adrian was killed
in France towards the end of the war after
he had got his majority, an M.C. and a
C. de G. The eldest son Montagu died
shortly after his marriage. And then her
brother died. She w r as one of the Suttors
of Bathurst (her father was in many
Ministries from 1875 onwards) and she in-
herited the impressive good looks of that
branch of the family. Consett Stephen,
whom she married 43 years ago, is the
present head of the Stephen family and
president of the Union Club.
Junior Red Crossers —hundreds and thou-
sands of them; the State now has 83,000
their fluttering white caps the snowier m
contrast with the 'crimson emblem 'they!
bore, swooped and circled about the Town
Hall last Wednesday. This was the J.R.C.’s
day of days, and they rejoiced with a loud
voice over the wonders of their own exhibi-
tion. Indeed, mere politicians and important
people on the platform had to seek the aid
of the megaphone to make themselves heard
above the din. Yet there was something
heartening in the hurry of the small figures,
and in the vivid, excited clatter. Stalls on
both sides of the hall were piled with gar-
ments of every description made by these
little girls that the child of the unfortunate
or disabled Digger might face the cold days
behind the buttress of warm woollies and
cosy coats. A stall laden with cakes told
of the skill of rising chefs— though one dis-
appointed competitor was heard to remark,
“Just look at those cakes! Weigh a ton,
I bet!” But she was a very little competitor,
and even a J.R.C. is human. The Town Hall
was festooned with foliage and flowers,
and the central lights, sheathed in petal-
pink silk, shed a rosy aura about the hours.
Red Cross officials were grouped on the stage,
and Attorney-General Boyce megaphoned the
opening blessing. This year, for the fifth
time in succession, the Orange Grove Circle
carried off the Milk Pail Shield for outstand-
ing help in the distribution of milk to poor kid-
dies. In addi-
tion to their
free-milk cam-
paign the Junior
Red Crossers
support three
homes for deli-
ea t e children ;
and some of the
small girls who
help so gallantly
were not even
thought of till
long after the war.
N. S. Wales
Police Commis-
sioner Childs
would have
100 ked like
Frith’s version, of
him if he had fol-
lowed his bent
for Gilbert and
Sullivan. He
knows the operas
backwards, and,
though he man-
ages to keep
cheerful, would
probably agree
with their insist-
ence that a
policeman’s life
is not a happy
one. He’d rather
be the Mikado.
“I’ve got him on the
list.”
Artist Jerrold Nathan has done a good
piece of work in his portrait of Mrs. R. R. S.
Mackinnon. This was presented to the Red
Cross chieftainess by the Chief Civic Com-
missioner’s wife during the Pageant at the
Town Hall last week.
Eleven girls, among them two tall daughters
of the Morgan O’Neills, who a year ago were
busy with their books at the Loreto Con-
vent in Kirribilli, burst into butterflies at
the school’s ex-students’ dance last week.
The Ambassadors saw the metamorphosis, and
Premier Bavin’s wife sped their flight. The
girls, in white, walked into the ballroom
guided by Mrs. W. D. Drescher, whose
severe dr apings of black chiffon velvet made
the right contrast. Mrs. Bavin was in skyey
blue and silver, whose beaded panels smacked
the floor. President Mrs. R. Biden, in green
chiffons flushed with violet, entertained Mrs.
Bavin and a party which included vice-presi-
dent Eileen Crewes and Nancy Bavid.
The old Friendly Union of Sailors’ Wives
has been given a fresh lease of life by Mrs.
J. B. Stevenson, wife of the officer come to
rule over Garden Island. The Union,
founded during the war, lapsed two or three
years ago, but both Admiral Evans’s wife and
the lady of Tresco want to sec it flourishing
again, and at a jolly meeting in the base-
ment of the Town Hall last week the stan-
dard was raised afresh. Admiral Evans
smiled on everybody and made a speech, in
which he promised the members a party at
his home when lie gets back from Jervis
Bay. Mrs. Evans told the meeting to dis-
abuse its mind of the idea that the Union
was a charitable organisation. Sailors’
wives being but human were subject to the
pangs of loneliness, and, a’s many of them came
with their husbands from overseas or from
other States, the Union created a suitable
atmosphere for forming friendships. Mrs.
Bennett White and the Cheer-oh girls,
many of them foundation members of the
Union, sparked up in great style for the
revival. Future meetings, sociable affairs
of tea and gossip, will take place on the
first Tuesday of each month at the Town
Hall.
Sydney has a new German Consul. He
is Dr. E. Wendler, and he and his wife
stepped off from the Nieuw Zeeland last
week. Batavia was their last post. Before
that the Foreign Office in Berlin was Dr.
Wendler’s headquarters. Almost at the
moment of their arrival Charley Bean, the
historian of the A.1.F., was making public
his cherished idea of seeing a German contin-
gent marching with the next Digger proces-
sion on Anzac Day. The daring proposition
wasn’t enthusiastically received, but it shows
how far the world lia*s moved in a dozen
years.
Victor Mann’s show at the Macquarie Gal-
leries drew half ’the art buyers in Sydney
to its opening. The former Director of the
National Gallery, however, modestly stayed
at home, and Mrs. Mann, seated in the
window which frames the garden plot of the
Union Club across the way, must have been
flattered or amused by the murmured “I had
no idea that Mr. Mann was such a find
artist” with which every second person
greeted her. The walls are hung with pic-
tures in water-colors and in oils. The
National Gallery bought two, and of the 15
sold on the first day the art-loving Burgess
couple from Kirribilli also secured a brace.
Among those who congratulated Mrs. Mann
on her husband’s work was Mrs. Macdonald,
wife of “Jimmy,” the present director of the
Gallery.
The rooms of the Women’s Club in Beau-
mont. House were bursting with grey matter
when the Uni. Women Graduates met for
their yearly meeting. In addition to the
home-grown, Miss Gillespie, an M.A. of
Cambridge, and Mrs. Huxley, a graduate of
Oxford, were front-seaters —Miss Gillespie
has come to Sydney to take charge of the
Deaconesses’ Home, aud Mrs. Huxley is here
because her husband is doing research work
in physics with Professor Vonwiller. Dr.
Constance D’Arcy, re-elected president, wel-
comed the two strangers and repatriated
Mrs. lan Clunies Ross, who has been in
Japan for over a year with her husband—
he was doing veterinary research work in
Tokio. Miss Gillespie and Grammar School
chief 11. S. Dettmann were the speakers.
The lady told of the work of the Federation
of University Women in Britain, and Mr.
Dettmann was slyly humorous on the sub-
ject of Ancient Woman. Mrs. Lot, he said,
mightn’t have been a good wife, but nobody
could dispute she was a perfect mummy. Mrs.
Noah was the first universal provider and
Eve was the original “misunderstood”
woman.
One of the brides of the week was Joan
Daly, who, clad in ivory panne velvet, pearls
and tulle, became Mrs. Geoffrey Remington
at St. Stephen’s in Phillip-street. Joan is
a popular Neutral Bay girl, aud the ’groom
comes from the Far North, which in this
case means Warrawee. Padre Hugh, Patoii
blessed the vows, and the wedding kai kai
was eaten at Rai Rai, the home of the
bride’s parents, the J. E. Dalys, of Neutral
Bay.
A wealthy but haphazard spinster who
lives on the north' side of the Harbor
decided a few weeks ago that it was time to
make another trip to Europe. She has been
in the habit of doing so every two or three
years from time immemorial. She booked
her berth, she got her passport, she packed
her trunks. But to money she gave not
a thought till the day she was taking her
heavy luggage down to her boat. In a well-
laden taxi she drove up to the bank, entered
it with the air of one who knows her deposits
are handsome and her investments sound,
and whose commands have always had speedy
attention. “Ah,” she said to her favorite
official, “I’m off to Europe again. Please
put through the usual credit.” The official
started back. Surely, he thought, there could
be nobody in the country unaware of the
restrictions on travelling cash. When he
faltered into an explanation, the lady looked
at him first in bewilderment, then in sus-
picion. She demanded to see the manager.
Why couldn’t she get her money—she had
plenty there! Was there anything the
matter with the bank? Then the lady began
to get angry. Such nonsense! —who was to
blame for this state of affairs? Not the
bank, the manager assured her, but the Gov-
ernment. “Oh, indeed!” With that the
lady bounced to the waiting taxi, and drove
“And that’s what I think of you all!”
straight to Macquarie-street. It took two
attendants to keep her off Mr. Bavin.
Finally a constable was called in to pacify
her. She measured him with her eye,
stepped hack three paces, and told him whaf
she thought of Australia’s Constitution,
starting with Wentworth and ending with
Bavin. She finally departed leaving behind
her a constable so nerve-shaken that he col-
lapsed at the sound of a motor-car’s backfire
in the street.


a
Big Ben
Base Model
<
II
10
2
o
8
7
6
y Ben
Model
Bab
Base
WESTCLOX
Guardians of Sleep
When you wind and set your Big
Ben, there is peace of mind in the
assurance that you will be called
exactly at the desired time. You
relax, get a 1 good night's sleep . s .
then, a punctual start for the day.
WESTCLOX, faithful guardians
of sleep, are precision-built
and give long, accurate
timekeeping service.
There are numerous
WESTCLOX .. . alarms
in nickel and colours,
pocket watches and auto
clocks.
Prices range
from 8/6 to 25/6
WESTERN CLOCK CQ
La Salle, Illinois, U.S-A.
BROWN & DUREAU LTD.
Melbourne, Sydney, Perth,
■ Brisbane
lOOK IN YOUR MIRROR!
Constipation , partial or complete,
is fatal to your looks
mm
Nature abhors a system.that is not daily and completely
cleansed of its waste poisons, and she intends you to abhor
it too. Dull eyes, a muddy skin, excessive perspiration, a
coated tongue, are her warnings that your blood is absorb-
ing dangerous toxins.
Watch for danger signals in yourself. If you find them
though you may not be conscious of being constipated in
the ordinary sense, you are suffering from incomplete
elimination. You need Eno’s "Fruit Salt”. AglassofEno
taken first thing every morning gently dismisses the waste
matter from your body before it has had time to stagnate.
Gno may be given to children with perfect safety.
u
IFMDIF SMIT
u
c &he words Sno and n< 3ruit Salt” are registered trade marks.
Sales Agents: THE BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE & CO. LTD.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
There are seven
reasons why
1
Guinness
IS GOOD FOR VOU
No. 5
FOR
THE BLOOD
Guinness is good
for the blood. It
contains valuable
phosphates which
enrich the blood,
and it also clears
the blood by keeping the system in
good working order. For this reason
Guinness is good for the complexion.
Guinness is a delicious beverage—
naturally matured. It preserves the
natural virtues of the barley, barley
malt, hops and yeast, which, with
the addition of water, are its sole
constituents.
N.B.—One pint of Guinness Foreign Extra Stout has a malt car-
bohydrate content equal to one and a half pints of pure dairy milk.
GF/A/9F
All British & Continental
CARS, TRUCKS AND MOTOR-CYCLES
EQUIPPED WITH
TecalemiT
LUBRICATING
TECALEMIT
HOOK - ON.
SYSTEMS
TECALEMIT
PUSH - ON.
be serviced by
can
TECALEMIT SERVICE STATIONS:
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street Perth
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street Adelaide
Keep Bros & Wood Pty., Ltd., Bateman Street Melbourne
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street Sydney
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street Brisbane
Factory Representative: Mr. JAMES THORNELL, 312 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
TECALEMIT, LTD., Mitre House, Scrubbs Lane, London, N.W.10, England.


Legal Notice.
IN THE SUP REM E COURT OF
1 TASMANIA.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO ALBERT E. MASON formerly of
Moorhead Street Redfern Sydney.
WHEREAS a Citation has issued out of
this Court citing you to appear and answer
the Petition of Charles George Gordon for
dissolution of his marriage with Madeline
Grace Gordon wherein he alleges that you
have committed adultery with the said
Madeline Grace Gordon TAKE NOTICE
that unless within Twenty-eight days from
the publication hereof you cause an appear-
ance to be entered in the Registry of the
said Court at Hobart to answer the said
Petition the Court will proceed to hear the
said charge proved and pronounce sentence
your absence notwithstanding.
A. G. BRAMMALL,
Registrar of the Supreme Court of
Tasmania.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SITPIt E M E COURT OP
1 TASMANIA.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO MADELINE GRACE GORDON
formerly of Moorhead Street Redfern
Sydney.
WHEREAS a Citation has issued out of
this Court citing you to appear and answer
the Petition of Charles George Gordon for
dissolution of his marriage with you on
the grounds of adultery and desertion TAKE
NOTICE that unless within Twenty-eight
days from the publication hereof you cause
an appearance to be entered in the Registry
of the said Court at Hobart to answer the
said Petition the Court will proceed to hear
the said charge proved and pronounce sen-
tence your absence notwithstanding.
A. G. BRAMMALL,
Registrar of the Supreme Court of
Tasmania.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A CONICAL
PAPER CUP AND PROCESS FOR MAK-
ING THE SAME.
T'HB proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
A No. 12913/23 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith and
Hassel, Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A RECEIVING
TUBE FOR CUP-FORMING MACHINES.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 2377/21 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable' from Griffith and
Hassel, Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN MACHINES FOR
MAKING REINFORCED SANITARY"
CUPS.
"THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
1 No. 2376/21 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith and
Hassel, Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A SANITARY
PAPER CUP-MAKING MACHINE.
T'HE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
A Xo. 2375/21 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith and
Hassel, Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
It is a rule of our Head-of-the-Riyer race
that the event must change its location once
every three years to the Barwon River, so
Geelong had all the excitement attending the
scholastic rowing event on Friday and Satur-
day. Viewers of the conflicts travelled by
road and rail in hundreds, and 11 ’planes
carried a contingent by air. The fine high-
way from the city to Geelong was frequented
on Friday morning by a vast fleet of motor-
cars, the occupants of which advertised their
school affiliations to the world with' streamers
j»nd flags, and most of them carried mascots.
Among the charms that sat on radiator caps
Micky the Mouse vied for popularity with
Ginger Meggs, Dismal Desmond and kewpies.
On Friday night there were several social
gatherings in Geelong. A dance at the
Corio Club was steered by the president of
the Barwon Rowing Club, T. S. Barnfather,
and a committee of ladies. Mrs. Barnfather
wore a cerise and gold brocade coat over her
black gown, Miss Sammie Vincent was in
bouncings of almond-green chiffon, and Lexie
Champs, the only deb., held a* posy of delphi-
niums against a filmy frock of matching blue.
There were house parties all over town, and
the Leslie Spragues, who sheltered many
visitors, also gave a dance.
Melbourne Grammar, Geelong Grammar
and Wesley College fought out the finals on
Saturday. " Threatening skies prevented a
record attendance, but there was a crowd of
40,000 to cheer the oarsmen. It was Gee-
long Grammar’s unlucky day, for a tangling
up of boats about a quarter of a mile from
the start resulted in the school’s crew being-
disqualified. After a neck and neck go
M.G.S. won the laurels. Then there was a
scamper back to Melbourne for celebration.
Lud Mayor Buxton’s son Tom was a
member of the winning crew. His father,
who rowed for the same school in days of
yore, went by air to see the heats on
Friday, and was in the front row on Satur-
day. Also in the winning crew was F. E. C.
Loxton, whose father, F. E. Loxton, is
manager for Burns, Philp in Brisbane. The
Loxtons and their daughter Alice came from
Bananaland for the great occasion.
At the city picture palaces and in the
theatrical shows a film of the race was put
on at the interval to wildly enthusiastic audi
onces. At the Regent, where old Scotch
Collegians assembled in force, Sydney’s Head-
of-the-River race was shown as a Movietone,
The ornate theatre had Scots College colors
festooned about the balcony, boxes and dome,
with some oars to give a boaty atmosphere.
When the orchestra arose upon the platform
which ascends and descends a racing skiff,
picked out with electric lights, came into
view. At the Capitol the purple and gold
of Wesley decked the vestibule, draped about
miniature skiffs of flowers. The Royal,
where “The Merry Widow” holds the stage,
had a generous garnishing of yellow and
bronze chrysanthemums mingled with _ the
combined colors of all crews. At the King’s
the new musical piece, “So_ This Is Love, ’
had its premiere in a setting of flags and
school colors hanging about balconies and
proscenium, with a shower of balloons
descending from the roof as a grand finale.
The Tivoli fell into line and assumed gala
array. The dressing of patrons at all
theatres was particularly smart, for there
were many dinner parties before and dances
after the shows. The Embassy drew a crush
of dancers, for whom Jennie Brenan pro-
vided all sorts of novelties.
The Stonehavens made Eric Rice, who
comes here as assistant secretary of the Over-
seas League, the excuse for a party at Ston-
nington on Thursday night. Marigolds,
bronze-toned chrysanthemums, and autumn
foliage decorated drawing- and dining-rooms
and an orchestra played discreetly in the
background. Black georgette covered with
silvery beads was worn by Lady Somers, and
Monica Somers Cocks, a guest at Govern-
ment House, was in garnet-red chiffon. Chief
Justice Irvine, Dr. Stanley Argyle, Dr.
James Barrett and General Chauvel were
there with their spouses.
The Luxtons gave the G.-G.’s party a
miss. They were in the throes of a civic
dinner, to which were invited the members of
the City Council and the council’s officers and
their wives and daughters. The Fitzroy Gar-
dens conservatories yielded up their largest
chrysanthemums to decorate the Mayoral suite,
and gladioli and smaller flowers, framed in
foliage, beautified the long tables in the
council chamber. Instead of listening to
music after the meal the guests were invited
to play bridge, and they seemed to enjoy
ir. Mrs. Luxton’s gown of cornflower-blue
georgette had a skirt with a hem-line all
ups and downs; and her mother, Mrs. W. H.
Lewis, wore black lace. Meg Griffiths, or
Albury, a guest of the chief magistrate and
bis wife, was in black lace. Ex-Mayor
Morell brought his lady, w'ho is getting back
into the social whirl after a long illness.
The city streets were dotted with flower
stalls on Wednesday, when a thousand vendors
cried wares to aid the Lud Mayor’s Fund.
Sellers were furnished by every institution
that draws aid from the fund. There was a
brave show of flowers and holly, and though
a warmish north wind caused early wilting
about £2700 was garnered. Mayoress Luxton
was one of the sales ladies at the Womens
Hospital section in Collins-street, and the
sign of St. Vincent’s Hospital’s Little
Green Shop” was temporarily suspended over
a booth in Howey Arcade, where Mrs.
Crivelli and Mrs. E. O. MacDevitt were
among the workers. Committees and auxi-
liary helpers of kindergartens, hospitals,
orphanages and such institutions, including
the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Children, vended flowers, cakes and home-
made preserves for the cause.
A million pounds’ worth of motor-cars
have been occupying the Exhibition Building,
filling it from basement to gallery and over-
flowing to the main drive in front of the
building and to marquees grouped about the
fountain. There was an almost indelicate
display of the innards of exhibits, of interest
to the mechanically-minded, but this Chat-
terer was most impressed by the glory ot
the new tints of Dueo, the luxurious uphol-
stery that is now a feature of even the
cheapest petrol-waggons, and the little gad-
gets that add to the comfort of motoring.
There seems to be no end to new decorative
dodges, and the prinking-up doesn’t stop with
cut-glass and silver receptacles for smokers
use or complexion repairs, but runs to tip-
ping the gear clutch and steering-wheel
centre with amber. Campers-out are well
catered for, too, these days. There are
picturesque tents that can be folded and car-
ried on a trailer, and wire mattresses that
roll up and form comfortable beds when ad-
justed over the tops of the seats.
Queen’s Mansions, the stone building over-
looking the Exhibition Gardens at the corner
of Ratlidown and Victoria streets, pur-
chased five months ago for the purposes ot
a girls’ hostel by the Roman Catholics, has
been transformed into a modern boarding
establishment, with hot and cold water, cen-
tral heating and an automatic lift. The walls
are tinted biscuit and primrose, and the
appointments are bright and cosy. Arch-
bishop Mannix gave the furnishings for the
two lounges, and included some water-color
paintings by Australian artists. At his sug-
gestion the beautiful dining-room was
equipped with a dance-floor. The hostel,
which will be known as St. Anne’s Hall, has
accommodation for about 160 girls. Each of
the four floors devoted to bedrooms has a
color scheme of its own, carried out in
poplin bedspreads, bath-towel borders, rugs
and the dados in the white-tiled bathrooms.
The kitchen lias been built on the most
modern lines. The dining-room is equipped
with tables to accommodate six, and there is
a little corner where the kettle can be boiled
for supper. The total cost of the hostel is
about £60,000, the building having been pur-
chased for £40,000.
President of the committee of women
which has helped with the establishment of
the new Catholic Girls’ Hostel, St. Anne s
Hall, is Mrs. T. C. Brennan, pictured here
by Johnstone
6 ’ S hannessy
and Falk. She
was a member
of the furnish-
ing committee
as well, and
her work has
been unending.
A great many
tenders were
received, and
their merits
had to be
studied from
the stand-
points of con-
venience and
comfort as
well as econ-
o m y. The
lady’s hu s-
ba n d is a
brother of
Attorney-Gen-
oral Frank Brennan.
The place is in charge of four sisters of
what was originally a French order, the
Daughters of Charity of St. Vincent de Paul.
Diggers who fought in France will remem-
ber these nuns, who were attached to mili-
tary hospitals, as “Les Cornettes,” a name
derived from their picturesque white head-
dress. like a seagull in flight, which tops a
sapphire-blue habit. Sister Catherine, who
is in charge, was for three years with the
orphanage for boys at Orange (N.S.W.).
The Governor and Lady Somers have
promised to join the dancers of the Big Busi-
ness Ball at the Town Hall on the 28th,
the profits of which are earmarked for the
Alfred Hospital. Organised by a number of
leading firms, this annual fixture has pro-
vided substantial monetary assistance for
several institutions.
An account of her S’African experiences
given by Admiral Creswell’s lady was an
interlude between tea and chatter at an after-
noon gathering at the Victoria League Club
rooms the other day. The affair was the
first of a series of at-homes. The duties of
hostess were shared by Mrs. Arnold Caddy,
Mrs. Percy Blackbourn, Mrs. Leane, the
Creswell lady and May Bullivant.
Scots kirk, Collins-street, saw the tying
of the knot between Alma Constance, only
daughter of the E. G. Bridgfords, of Elstern-
wick, and Dr. Alexander Tremaine Park, son
of the late Dr. A. Park, Moonee Ponds.
A lengthy Brussels lace veil flowed over the
white satin gown of the bride, who carried
a sheaf of creamy gladioli. Her two ’maids
achieved a mingling of spring and autumn in
their frocks of pale green chiffon figured in
designs of russet foliage, topped with green
felt hats.
The making of music, in the sense of invent-
ing new tunes, wouldn’t cease if the world
outside Australia sank beneath ocean waves
to-morrow. We have as a heritage all the
music of all
the age s—
least detrimen-
tal of our im-
ports —and we
can offer an
atmosphere so
near akin to
that of Italy
that our young
c o m p o (S e rs
ought to be
singing like
Verdi and
Rossini.
Here’s a lady,
Madame Flor-
en c e Ewart,
who came here
young fro m
foreign parts
and got some
ins piration.
Her quartette
in D minor
was recently performed by the Sisser-
man group. As a violinist she won
tlie first scholarship given’ by the Lon-
don Royal College of Music, and after
winning a diploma there she went to
Leipzig. The lady studied with Brodsky and
then assisted him as a teacher. She had
lessons from Joachim, Grand Lama of the
violin, and came to Australia twenty-four
years ago. Spencer Shier made the picture.
Melbourne Grammar School chapel was
chosen for the linking of Jess Blanch, second
daughter of the late G. E. Blanch, a former
headmaster of the school and also of Christ’s
College, Christchurch (M.L.), and Lieu-
tenant Roy Russell Dowling, R.A.N. The
bridegroom is a son of the late Russell
Dowling and Mrs. Dowling, of Toowoomba.
Bananaland. Ivory satin, much flared with
a cascade of tulle and Limerick lace, decked
the bride. Molly Turner Shaw and Judy
Finch, wfitli pink frocks and hair wreathed
in pink blossoms, were ’maids, and little
Pat Shaw carried the train. Mrs. Blanch
entertained guests at No. 9.
After being out of mode for a while ivory
velvet is again coming into favor for wedding
gowns. Two recent brides chose the material
for their array, and demonstrated that it
is particularly effective when made up on
the long lines of the moment, besides which
orange blossoms and a lace veil go with it as
naturally as mint sauce with roast lamb.
Attending a bride so attired were two maicls
in lace frocks of plumbago blue and sunset
pink respectively, with matching velvet hats.
Uitpromising weather conditions on Thurs-
day resulted in the hasty transfer of what
was to have been a garden party into an
indoor function. Mr. and Mrs. W. J.
Wearne had lent their place for the enter-
tainment, which was in aid of St. Anthony’s
Orphanage. Instead of tea and chatter out-
side there was music in the drawing-room
where the Sisserman quartette, Michael
Cole, Eileen Castles, Walter Kirby and Vera
Carew were performers. Mrs. T. V. Millea
and Mrs. P. Finn were honorary ticket-
sellers.
As the result of an agitation kept up by
the district concerned for over 35 years, the
Darling to Glen Waverley railway is at last
an accomplished fact. It is only five or six
miles long, but the district rejoices mightily.
At the opening of the line last week resi-
dents came from near and far, and sulkies
and carts were parked alongside sedans and
touring cars of the latest models. The pre-
sident of Mulgrave Shire, Councillor Cole-
man, welcomed Lord Somers, who gave the
line his vice-regal blessing, and Mrs. Cole-
man, in brown velvet with a felt hat, handed
to Lady Somers a posy which made a cheery
splash of color against her black and white
attire. His Ex. unleashed the new service by
leaning from the driver’s window of an elec-
tric carriage and snipping a barrier tape.
The shire’s lucky day was celebrated with
lashings of tea and cake, spread in a big
marquee beside the terminus station.
Jennie Lee (Mrs. J. P. Burnett), who has
just died in London, was the eldest of three
sisters, all actresses and all of them well-
known in Australia. Ada died of bubonic
plague in Sydney, and Katie passed away
some years ago in London. Jennie became
famous for her character acting as Jo in
“Bleak House,” adapted for the stage by her
husband, J. P. Burnett. She played the part
for 20 years. She lost her son Jack Bur-
nett in the war, and her daughter, Joan
Burnett, also an actress, died in Australia
some years ago.
Colonel E. H. Davidson, private sec. to
Baron Somers, is to take up a similar job
on the staff of the G.-G. of S’Africa at the
end of the year, and will book his berth for
November. He has seen more of Vic. than
most of the natives of the State, and has
had a peep at some of the principal Aus-
tralian centres. He is therefore equipped to
make comparisons between the two federa-
tions. Whether he will agree with Frank
Tate, who on returning from Hertzwg's
dominion said that Australia had no problems
except those created by sheer cussed ness,
remains to be recorded.
For the first time since responsible govern-
ment was established here, 74 years ago, a
woman lawyer appeared before the elections
and qualifications committee of the Assembly
last week. She was Mrs. Joan Rosanove,
counsel for Laborite J. E. Satehell, M.L.A.,
whose right to the Castlemaine-Kyncton seat
was challenged by an application for a
recount. The lady’s client won, there being-
no fight after the first scrutiny.
The programme directed by Harold Brown-
ing at the British Music Society’s concert
held at Grong Grong, the Toorak liome of
Mrs. T. Smith, was _ made up mostly of
English music of the sixteenth century. The
Victorian Singers gave part-songs by Thomas
Morley, Orlando Gibbons and others. The
soloists, basso Roy Warren and soprano
Lola Edwards, chose old songs set to music by
modern British composers. Masses of zinnias
and hydrangeas decorated the drawing-room.
Mrs. Victor Wiscli'er deputised for president
T. Brentnall.
Mrs. Norman Gadsden, daughter of the
Thomas Smiths, of Grong Grong, is pursuing
her vocal studies in London under Plunkett
Greene. Her vacations have been spent in
France, and at Easter she accompanied Miss
O’Keefe, of Sydney, to Vienna.
Returned to Australia last week after
30 years’ absence Mrs. David Christie Mur-
ray, widow of the English novelist. The
lady, who is accompanied by her daughter
Dora, is a sister of actor Maurice Dudley,
announcer for 3LO. Miss Murray has
announced her engagement to G. T. Jones,
a fellow-passenger, who is on a mission in
Australia for the British Government.
Journalist Ethel Martyr, of Bendigo, and
pianist-composer Margaret Sutherland, who
joined forces in a book of children’s songs
published by Allan, have received the cheer-
ing news that the first issue is sold out. A
further edition is likely at an early date.
Poets have written and sung of the
almond-eyed beauties of the past. We are
to have ’em again. In London women are
rushing surgical specialists, who, for a tidy
fee, will make the tiny slit at the corner of
each eyelid which does the trick. The
archaeologists tell us that this is no new
thing. In the days of Cleopatra it was a
common practice with Egyptian ladies of the
Court to have their eyes extended in this
fashion.
The walls of the reception-room of the
Lyceum Club are like an art gallery at pre-
sent, for members addicted to the arts and
crafts are staging the eighth yearly display
of their efforts. The show was launched by
the president of the club, Dr. Gwynneth
Buchanan.' Among well-known painters
represented are M. Fullwood Watson, E. M.
Wilks, L. E. Reid, Dora Wilson, Jessie
Traill and Chris Lorimer. Specimens of
band-weaving, bookbinding and leather work
and some unique enamel jewellery fashioned
by May Vale figure in the craft section.
A feature of the Flower Day doings last
week was what might be termed a one-man
flower show held in the upper chamber of
the Town Hall. It consisted of blooms from
the hot-houses and conservatories of A. M.
Nicholas. The Governor and Lady Somers,
who were met by the Luxtons, looked in to
admire the horticulture and praise the ex-
hibitor for his kindly effort on behalf of the
Lud Mayor’s Fund. The gorgeous array
included orchids of great size and vivid color
arranged with foliage plants on the stage.
At intervals down the room there were one-
color groupings of decorative Japanese chry-
santhemums, and palms surrounded by
masses of other rare blossoms made islands
in a sea of brown linoleum.
Dr. Georgina Sweet must have her cabin
trunks perpetually packed in readiness for
travel. This week she boards the Ormonde
to attend a conference of the Councils of the
Y.W.C.A. at St. Cerque, near Geneva. Later
she proposes to have a peep at New York
and one or two places in Canada, returning
by way of Honolulu, where she will be a
delegate at the Pah-Pacific Conference.


The Finest Gun Dogs
In England
are fed regularly on Ken-L-Ration, the
dog food supreme. Rich in food value.
In Tins. READY TO SERVE.
A Perfectly-balanced Ration.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB
P. O. Box 1821, Melbourne
Ken-I ; Ration
Winchester Rifle, Model 56.
22-Cal. Long Rifle only
Handles well
and
Shoots well.
mm
Write for Catalogue B.
The Rifle
for Small Game
Price, £5. Post free to all parts ol
Australia.
The Gun House,
COWLES DUNN,
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
1 a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d’hote Dinner, 21/-
Special Supper from 10 o’clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant—-
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/-
’Phone M 4 13 1 for your reservation.
THE PASSAGE
By VANCE PALMER
/LL U S T RAT ION SBY ARIA
Synopsis: His father, Boh Cal-
laway, drowned at the bar of the
Passage, Lew has to support his
mother, Hughie and. two other child-
ren. Lew is a fisherman, satisfied
enough with the life, hut slightly dis-
gruntled at the idea of having to carry
the heavy end of the log all his days.
He resents the determination of his
mother (Anna) not to allow Hughie
to become a fisherman. But Hughie,
Lew admits to himself, has hrains; it
is Hughie Uncle Tony calls when any-
thing is wrong with his boat; so when
Kunkel offers Hughie a job at his store
Lew agrees that he should take it.
Hughie soon buys a motor-lorry, and
it is tacitly agreed that he is the
“hope of the family.” Anna is
disturbed over Lew's attachment for
Clem McNair, daughter of a man
who has made money out of
patent medicine and lias just sold
a large area of land on one side of
the Passage—to Osborne, a specu-
lator. _ Anna believes Clem, who
lives in the city and comes to the
Passage only occasionally, is out of
Lew's class. Lew's diffidence, however,
prevents closer relationship, and Clem
returns to town intending to make a
career for herself. She writes asking
him to go and hear a great violinist
with her, but he declines at, the last
moment. His excuse is work, but the
reason is the, as yet, scarcely-felt influ-
ence of another girl, Lena Christensen.
CHAPTER X.
The Long Dive.
THAT summer there was an unusual
gathering on the flat where the fisher-
men mended their nets. Sports had
been organised in aid of the district ambu-
lance. and the green stretch of turf between
the Callaways’ and the Wiegerts’ was the
only place at once suitable for footraces and
water events. An ideal place it was, though
Osborne, who had initiated the affair, was
doubtful whether it was close enough to
the McNair allotments he hoped to sell.
Still he made the most of his opportuni-
ties, and the motor-cars he had collected
to take the summer visitors over from
Sully’s Beach flaunted his signs, while the
same signs fluttered over the booths, and
the marquee with a wooden platform for
dancing that had been erected near the
jetty.
‘‘Choice Seaside Lots on Easy Terms,” the
strident letters shouted from all sides. “The
Pacific is your ocean: build your holiday
home by the side of it. A pound down
and a pound per month. Get in before the
crowd.”
There were refreshment booths, motor-
launches with variegated flags and a jazz
band hammering out a brazen music that
disturbed the white gulls hovering over the
sandbanks, and made them respond with
their own harsh cries.
Never had the quiet shores of the Pass-
age seen such a promiscuous crowd before.
L oung men in flannels and blazers strolled
about bareheaded in the sunshine, or stood
chatting to the girls who sat dangling their
silk-stockinged legs over the breakwater.
The heat of summer was in the air, but
the water looked cool and green, so trans-
parent that the filmy shapes of the whiting
could be seen moving over the white sand
at the bottom. Horsemen from the range-
orchards caracoled over the green turf;
children with ice-cream wafers in their hot
fists dodged between the threatening heels;
stewards bustled about, ringing bells and
trying to collect entries for this race or
that. Above all was a cheerful hum of
excitement that drowned even the noise
of the jazz band in the marquee; and con-
spicuous among the throng, with his cheer-
ful, red face, rimless glasses and fluttering
silk motoring-coat, was Osborne, the organ-
iser, an ambulance badge in his button-
hole and a look of commercial keenness
in the corners of his eyes.
“The Pacific is your ocean,” he seemed
to be assuring everyone, “but if you want
to make sure of your title you must come
to me.”
The little group of fishermen, who had
always considered the flat their own world,
sat apart, on empty cases near the end of
the jetty, watching the invasion with curi-
ous, amused glances. Among them was
Uncle Tony, his brown legs covered for
once with white ducks, the open tunic
revealing his singlet and scrawny throat.
He enjoyed the life and movement, but
a sardonic grin twisted his lips as he
watched Osborne strutting about with a
bell in one hand and a programme in the
other. This was the beginning! Once
Osborne took an interest in a place he
brought people thick as sandflies in his
tracks, and soon there would be boatsheds
all along the Passage and a flood of noisjq
alien life pouring over the sandbanks all
summer. Well, a man couldn’t hope to
hold all that frontage for ever. He had
had a good spin! And he had his own
secret hidden in his vitals —a growth that
would change his familiar world for him
before Osborne did.
“Hullo, you old malingerer!” he chuckled
as Lew sauntered
<?ver from the mar-
{ji.ee where dancing
had already begun.
“Keeping in the
background, aren’t
you? What are you
going in for? Shoot-
ing the clay pigeons
or climbing the
greasy pole?”
“Nothing,” said
Lew brusquely.
“This isn’t our show;
we’re only the mugs
that shell out the
money.... Might,
have a shot at the
long dive later on.”
He was feeling out
of things. A strong
swimmer, he was no
good at sho rt
spurts through the
water, and he had
been watching young-
fellows he knew
could beat him at
anything under forty
yards. Then while
lie was standing at
the entrance of the
marquee, Lena
Christensen had
brushed past with-
out noticing him.
She was with Craig
and a party from
Glenrowan, and he
had a sense of hav-
ing been snubbed.
The very presence
of this laughing,
chattering crowd on
the ground where,'
bar e-legged and
flannel-shirted, h e
mended his nets
roused an obscure
class-feeling in him.
His polished shoes
were tight on his
feet, his serge suit
seemed wrinkled at
the wrong places.
And there was his
mother talking to
Aunt Rachel at the
door of the marquee
—she wasn’t too
comfortable, either!
“Not our show?”
Uncle Tony was say-
ing. “Why, it’s in our own back yard. Go
on, man. Strip and show ’em how a Cal-
laway moves through the water.”
“Yes, go on, Lew,” urged Tom Rahilly.
“They’re getting ready for the long dive
now, and it ought to be a soda for you.
If I hadn’t rheumatics down the back of
my leg I’d give it a fly meself.” '
Uncle Tony grinned.
“Same here. It gets me in the gizzard
to watch these young fellows from town
winning all the money when an old buffer
like me could teach ’em how to travel—
breast-stroke, side-stroke or crawl.”
It wasn’t an empty boast. In spite of
his grizzled head and flat feet, Uncle Tony
looked a picture when he was stripped, with
a smooth, muscular body that might have
been modelled out of marble; and he moved
through the water like a seal. That deep
chest of his took in so much air that he
was almost as much at home below the
surface as above it.
But Lew hung back, a queer stubborn-
ness working in him. It was. not till Dot
danced over, flashing-eyed and bursting
with excitement, that he weakened.
“Hughie’s looking for you everywhere,
Lew,” she shrilled. “They’re calling for
men for the long dive. Quick! You’ve got
to go in and win it; hasn’t he, Uncle Tony?”
She caught his bent arm and swung on
it, her starched frock crumpled and her
white hat pressed down over her hot little
face. A passionate belief that there was
nothing Lew couldn’t win if he would shake
off his surly detachment showed in her eyes.
“Oh, Craigie?" she said , with a little grimace. ‘I’m not worrying about him. That’s all off.”
He laughed good-humoredly as she jerked
him off his balance.
“All right, Kid; you nip in and get my
togs. If I win anything it’s yours, and if
I lose I’ll pay you a forfeit.”
He was more at ease in his bathing-
trunks than in his double-breasted serge
suit and slippery shoes. As soon as he had
peeled them off, the sense of disharmony
that had been nagging at him vanished.
He really wanted to race, to pit himself
against other men in the water, to have his
powers extended to the limit, as they never
had been since he had played maroochy
between the jetty and the sandbank years
ago with Fred and Uncle Tony’s boys. Be-
sides anew impulse of rivalry was assert-
ing itself, stirring vaguely in his blood
rather than his mind. Lena Christensen
would be watching from the breakwater;
her eyes were probably on him now!
There were only three others in for the
long dive, but they were all proved swim-
mers—two men with the badges of a well-
known surf club on their chests, and a half-
caste with curly hair, a massive torso and
slim, muscular legs. They lined up on the
end of the rickety jetty, with the water
pale-green and transparent beneath them
and the crowd moving over the grass on
their left to watch them from the break-
water.
“Last of the water events!” a steward
was calling out. “This way for the long
dive! Flag race with horses to follow.”
The refreshment-booths and the dancing
marquee were deserted; for the time being
there was no interest in anything but the
long dive. A shout went up as the half-
caste, going first, sprang with a curve into
the water, flashing downwards and forwards
with swift, powerful strokes. Even from the
shore his dark figure could be seen, moving
like some shadowy shark along the white
sand at the bottom. Then his figure
dimmed, became lost; there was not a
bubble on the silky surface to mark his
progress; people held their own breath un-
consciously, waiting for his dark head to
reappear. Yet the seconds passed, each
blown out and distended to an hour, and
there was no sign of him. Had anything
happened? Not far out was the deep pool


IS
r
1
*GROSVENOR
ADELAIDES FINEST UNLICENSED HOTEL
The most attractively located hotel
in Adelaide. The new railway sta-
tion is at your door; every transit
facility dose by. Fireproof, 300
rooms, 100 bathrooms, spacious
lounge, faultless service, yale
lock on every door.
NORTH TERRACE. ADELAIDE.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
ff. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Cuiwuila Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
LONDON.
the four hotels which guarantee
LUXURY AND REFINEMENT, WITH
CUISINE OF THE HIGHEST STANDARD.
ALL BEDROOMS HAVE RUNNING WATER
AND EXCHANGE TELEPHONES, GAS
FIRES AND CENTRAL HEATING,
PASSENGER LIFTS TO ALL FLOORS,
GARAGE AND NIGHT PORTER.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT,
1-9 INVERNESS TERRACE, HYDE PARK, W. 2.
90 Rooms. Terms from 44 guineas.
Telephone 9901 Park (5 lines).
LANCASTER COURT HOTEL,
66-69 LANCASTER GATE, HYDE PARK, W. 2.
100 rooms. Terms from 4 guineas.
Telephone Padd. 9121 (3 lines).
PARK ROYAL HOTEL,
25-28 LEINSTER GARDENS, HYDE PARK, W. 2.
75 rooms. Terms from 31 guineas. Double, 6 guineas.
’Phone Padd. 9712 (3 lines).
BERKELEY COURT HOTEL,
29-31 LEINSTER GARDENS, HYDE PARK, W. 2.
55 Rooms. Terms from 34 guineas. Double 6 guineas.
’Phone Padd. 8022.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT AND LANCASTER
COURT HOTEL ARE IDEALLY SUITED IOR
RECEPTIONS AND AT-HOMES
The above are personally supervised by Mrs. 3. h.
Stevenson. Keep these addresses for future references
and friends.
where sluggish, old-man gropers lay in wait
for anything the current brought down. Or
a man might get caught in a .tangle ot
mullet-weed and rusty anchor-chains! There
was a flicker of uneasiness among the crowd
on the breakwater, a rumble of inarticulate
sound.
But no, nothing had gone wrong! the
half-caste appeared further down than any-
one expected, standing in chin-deep water
and flirting the salt from his eyes. Shrill
cries of applause from the breakwater, and
the two surf-club men, realising they were
outclassed before they struck the water,
dived in one after another.
Lew waited, hardly conscious they were
gone, but keeping his eye on a slim she-
oak, drooping over the bank far down.
That had been his furthest mark in the
old days when he competed with Fred and
the others, but the half-caste had passed
it. Well, he had never been pushed to the
limit yet, and his lungs were as sound as
ever! He waited till the two surfers, having
lost direction and swum in circles, came up
gasping; then he made his plunge, hitting
the water with hardly a splash. Down in
that world of greenish light he was at home,
and he felt the current behind him, giving
each stroke of leg and arm twice its proper
value, sending him skimming like a startled
fish a foot above the white sand.
He knew every inch of that sea-floor as
well as the cropped green where he mended
his nets. The dark blur that shot under
him was the bottom of one of Uncle Tony’s
riddled punts; the blob of dancing light
away to the right was a new 7 kerosene-tin
Hughie had dropped overboard when he
was bailing. Two wavy silver streaks
showed up near him; they were the still
legs of one of the surf-club men. He con-
sciously clapped on the pace, pictures flit-
ting across his brain. He could see Dot
perched breathless on one of the stones of
the breakwater, Lena standing on tiptoes
with one arm resting on Craig’s shoulder,
the half-caste’s dark head and white teeth
appearing above the smooth surface. His
own head seemed to have swollen like a
bladder and there was a roaring in his
ears, but still he drove on. Another twenty
yards!
A flood of blinding light poured down
on him, dazzling his eyes, as he came to
the surface. People were calling out things
from the breakwater, rushing down towards
him waving their handkerchiefs. A rumble
of confused sound; the feeling of a loud
surf breaking over him.
“Lew! Good old Lew! You’ve
done it this time. Lew!.... Home and
dry on the pig’s back!”
Something was knocking at the back of
his head, which seemed full of air. He
had come far past the she-oak tree, past
the half-caste, whose head was a dark blob
on the surface twenty yards away, much
further than he had calculated. But the
effort had drained him of strength, and he
was panting like an exhausted dog as he
paddled ashore and climbed out on the
stones of the breakwater.
Dot had burst through the crowd and
was skimming towards him, one stocking
down and her hair blowing across her face.
Intense admiration was shining in her eyes,
illuminating her whole body.
“You’ve won, Lew! Isn’t it bonzer you’ve
won? They said that half-caste had you
beaten, but I knew he hadn’t.... Oh, I
say. vour nose’s bleeding. Lew. Bleeding
bad!”
“That’s all right,” he said, drawing his
wet hand across his face.
She danced along beside him as he
threaded his way through the crowd, hang-
ing on to his arm and not minding about
getting her frock wet from the drip of his
body. People w,ere clapping him on the
shoulder, and he felt the pride of life swell
in him, distending his chest and making
him hold his chin high. He hadn’t spent
all his life on the water for nothing; he
had given them something to talk about!
And he could have done another twenty
yards if it had been necessary!
“Hell, man, you’ve overdone it,” said
Uncle Tony as the fishermen gathered
around him. “Stayed down too long. Hop
over to my place and get a mouthful of
whisky.”
“I’m all right,” Lew repeated with a
grin. “Do me good to lose a little blood.
Too much of it.”
He felt on good terms with the. world
about him. It was worth losing pints of
blood to achieve that sense of rhythm and
harmony. Everyone was glad he had won;
the knowledge of that made him feel warm
around the heart, for he had never had the
experience of being popular before.
But when he had slipped "into his clothes
again the crowd had flowed away from the
breakwater, and was watching the prepara-
tions for the flag-race for horses, shouts
and cries going up as children were snatched
away from beneath trampling hoofs. Six
rows of flags were set out at even intervals,
and half a dozen riders were exercising their
mounts in the cleared space, nursing them
when they pranced and shied away. Lew
saw Lena among them on a little bay geld-
ing, her hat off, her body bent over a
little as she watched her pony’s feet step
free from an entangling rope. She was the
only girl in the contest, and the good-
humored banter of the crowd rippled around
her, but she laughed lightly as she flung
back jest for jest; it would take more than
a little barracking to disturb that cool poise
of hers! Watching her from the back of
the crowd, Lew felt a curious sense of pride
flowing through his blood, carrying him out
of himself. What a pair of hands she had
on a horse! And how easily she sat in
the saddle, as though she were no more
burden to the horse than its hide!
“The long dive? Yes, one of the Cal-
laways won it,” he heard someone say.
“Not much hope for anyone against them!
Got webbed feet—the whole bunch of ’em.”
They were away! A thunder of hoofs
on the soft turf, an abrupt scattering of
the six riders as some grabbed the flag
nearest them and wheeled back, while others
raced on to the end of the row. Shouts
of encouragement, and a general crowding-
in upon the cleared space. Lew had for-
gotten his own triumph for the moment,
forgotten even the casual sneer about his
webbed feet; his salt-blurred eyes were
upon Lena, and confused cries were rising
in his throat. Who would have thought
she could ride so well as that? Like a
bird wheeling she brought her horse round
each flag, guiding him with her knees rather
than her hands, and gaining yards on the
others at every turn. Between her and her
mount there was perfect understanding. The
others over-rode their marks and yanked
their horses round with difficulty, but she
raced swiftly backwards and forwards with-
out once missing a flag or putting the geld-
ing out of his stride. There was a fixed
smile on her lips, a sober concentration in
her eyes. She knew she was winning.
A roar as the last flag was thrown behind
the starting-post, and she slipped from her
horse, flushed but self-controlled. Feeling
that his own victory was a small thing,
Lew made his way to the outskirts of the
ring that had formed about her. A dark,
curly-haired man in riding-breeches had
taken the gelding from her and was rub-
bing its sides down with an old saddle-
cloth. Craig, the surveyor, of course! How
was it he never saw her except in the com-
pany of this fellow !
Over the heads of the thinning crowd she
caught his eye and waved her hand, so that
he was moved to edge towards her. There
was an awkwardness about his congratula-
tions: he was flattered that she should
remember him, yet curiously' enough he
was annoyed at his own feeling of humility.
She was Craig’s girl, or so it appeared, and.
he had heard stories of Craig that left him
with no very high opinion of the fellow.
“This is one up for the women, Lena,”
he found himself saying. “You made all
the men look small—left them clean out
of sight.”
She laughed carelessly, and told him she
wasn’t taking too much credit for that.
“It was the horse who really won, and
he belongs to Craigie. Such a little beauty
he is! Got a mouth like silk, and could
turn on a sixpence.”
Craig turned half-round, raising his eye-
brows.
“What’s that? Let anyone try him who
hasn’t got a good pair of hands.”
A look of complacency spread over Lena’s
face as she rubbed the gelding behind the
ear.
“Oh, he knows my touch on the reins all
right. Tingles all over as soon as I throw
a leg across him. Don’t you, Caesar?”
She had turned her attention away from
Lew, and was joking with Craig about one
of the men who had taken his defeat badly,
arguing with a steward about the disposi-
tion of the flags. Lew looked at the other
man’s face over the back of the horse. It
was small-featured and slightly fattish,
bluish about the jaws from dark bristles
just beneath the chin, but the warm, brown
eyes had a quizzical humor in them. Lena
was asking about the swimming events; she
had been so occupied with getting the geld-
ing ready that she had missed some of
them. And she had particularly wanted to
see the long dive!
“Too late,” said Lew stolidly. “That was
finished half an hour ago.'’
He left them and went oyer to the
marquee, which was crowded with dancers,
mainly girls from the summer cottages and
young men from the orchards on the range.
There was a slight sourness in him as he
watched them, as if something that had
tasted sweet in his mouth had turned bitter
in the belly. His own personal triumph
hadn’t lasted long enough; it had gone in
a breath, and Lena hadn’t even heard of
it! When he had imagined her watching
excitedly from the breakwater he had been
fooling himself. Believing what he wanted
to believe!
Uncle Tony and the fishermen were squat-
ting on the edge of the breakwater, looking
at some youngsters playing maroochy in
the water. Brown and vivid the small
bodies gleamed; the air echoed with their
shouts. But Lew’s face was heavy and
self-absorbed as he strolled over to join
the group, and he kicked at a dog that
came sniffing round his heels. He had a
rankling desire to impress himself on this
girl with the white skin and the low laugh,
to make her take notice of him. It was
a strange feeling she roused in him, dif-
ferent from any other he had known—
savage, male, possessive.
CHAPTER XI.
Fair Winds.
Yet the summer had nearly ended before
he saw her again. It was a lazy, dream-
like summer, with very little to do but
paint, boats and make repairs to the break-
water and jetty, for the shoals of fish had
gone from the heated waters of the Passage.
Fred came home for a long holiday and
lounged amiably about the place, lending
a hand occasionally at some small job or
other, but keeping a quiet air of detach-
ment about him all the time, as if his
real interests were elsewhere. The home
was something from which he had broken
away; he didn’t want to be sucked into the
currents of its life again. A slim, good-
looking young fellow, careful about his
clothes and his hair, the very way he wore
his silk shirt and flannels brought a dry-
ness to Uncle Tony’s tongue.
“Take care where you’re sitting, Fred.
It’d be murder to get tar over them new
trousers Beats me how you can keep
that wave in your hair, Fred, going round
without a hat like you do. Must take a
hell of a time putting it right again after
you’ve been in the water.”
But Fred took the old man’s barrack
good-humoredly as part of the He
couldn’t remember a time when Uncle Tony
didn’t chip him about something or other,
the way he handled a boat, or wore sand-
shoes to protect his feet from oyster-shells
on the rocks. And now Uncle Tony thought
Lew was carrying the heavy end of the
log, and he the light! Well, that was one
way of looking at it, but as long as Lew
. himself didn’t growl no one else had a
right to butt in! He had hopes of getting
a job within a few months on a sugar-boat,
and his eyes were steadily fixed on longer
voyages to America later on.
“Anything doing?” he would ask in the
mornings, strolling out to the little jetty
with his pipe and towel.
“No, nothing much. I’ll just be mucking
round,” was Lew’s reply.
And Fred would wander off to Sully’s
Beach, where there were usually a few
girls he knew down for holidays. It was
a pleasant place to come home to, now
that he could look at it with the eyes of
a visitor. No one could show the girls
round the rocks like he could, or reveal
more fully the strange, fantastic life in the
hidden pools. He had the knowledge of
a native, and besides he was good to look
at as he sprawled on the sand in his swim-
ming togs, brown, hard and sunny-eyed.
Long days on tho water as a boy had put
the stamp of the sea on him, just as they
had on Lew: it was in his voice and his
far-gazing eyes; but his mind was moved
by a light adventurousness that fought
against any fixed moorings. He hated the
smell of fish and drying mullet-weed, the
feeling that every shilling was marked out
for some special purpose, the close atmo-
sphere of the little home by the jetty. A
wider world was opening out in front of
him now that his days of apprenticeship
were over. To lean over the rails of a
ship’s deck and watch the lights of stiange
t own s—Colombo, Yokohama, New York —
that was his dream.
Marnie had also come home with definite
ideas of her future career, but it was to be
a less expensive one. Dressmaking had
been one of the things taught at the
Fumerella school, and her teacher had been
surprised at the skill in her fingers. She
had some of Hughie’s expertness, some of
his cleverness and craft, but it went into
the one channel of cutting-out and design-
ing. A dark, self-contained girl, with a
trim figure and a curt tongue, she watched
other girls and women with eyes that saw
little save the clothes they wore, but saw
that with great exactness. And any cos-
tume that interested her she could repro-
duce.
“You've always got your nose in those
things, Marnie,” said Anna, watching her
pore over fashion journals by the light of
the single lamp. “I believe you go to sleep
with one of then) under your pillow. And
I don’t see they’ll be much use to you
here.”
Marnie gave a flirt of the chin.
“Why not? I may be setting up in busi-
ness myself one of these days.”
“Here?” said her mother, with a touch
of irony.
“Here or somewhere else. If I’d a bit
of money behind me I’d open a little shop
in the township to-morrow and stick a
couple of models in the window. Only the
name of Callaway wouldn’t cut any ice in
a hole like that—you’d want something
with a Frenchy sound. I’d do better in
town.”
Yet for all the clearness of her ambi-
tions, there was no dissatisfaction in her
mind as she moved about the place, help-
ing her mother with the housework, wash-
ing Lew’s salt-dried dungarees, keeping
Dot’s school frocks in good order.
“Glad to be home, Marnie?” asked Dora.
Wiegert, leaning over the fence and watch-
ing her peg clothes on the line.
“Glad enough,” Marnie told her, “but
I’m not throwing an}’ handsprings. I had
a good time over there.”
Dora was Albert’s wife, an amiable, cow-
like woman, who always looked as if she
had slept in her clothes. Very different
from Mrs. Dave, an energetic little body,
who wore her hair screwed in a bun, and
hardly ever let her eyes wander from the
stove or the washtub. Dora rarely came
near the place when Anna was about, for
Anna thought her a trollop and she knew it.
She eyed Mamie’s neat working frock now
with wistful eyes.
“I wish I could sew like what you can.
It takes me all my time to keep the young-
sters’ backs covered, let alone making them
look smart. I never was no good with the
needle.”
“Lots of people aren’t,” said Marine.
“They just manage to muck along.”
She knew that Dora, would have liked to
offer her payment for a little help with the
boys’ clothes, and her back stiffened at the
thought. Sew for the Wiegerts? She
hadn’t put in two years a.t the rural school
for that!
A solid little worker, Marnie, but as
determined as her mother not to let out-
siders profit by her industry! She was
clever in all the things that make the life
of a home run smoothly, with no creaks
of machinery or jangling of nerves. And
in spite of her drive and independence, she
had a strong family sense. She was a Cal-
laway, and proud of it. They had battled
with hard times since they were born, and
there was still need for them to hang
together. A compact family they looked
as they sat around the living-room table
in the evenings while Fred was at home,
playing euchre or some card game they
had invented as children. No two of them
were alike—Lew swarthy, Fred blue-eyed
and fairish, Hughie snub-nosed and
freckled, while Mamie’s mature, self-
contained face contrasted strongly with
Dot’s childish, eager one—but at times there
flickered over the features of each the
unSeizable expression that made people
“Yes, that’s a Callaway. You could
pick one of that crowd out anywhere.”
(Continued on page 45.)


✓f
Nv,<r
Gt~
55
1W
is? %
as
V\v V
ey
SI At
CHINA
Subtle attraction
smoothness, quiet
strength you will find in every
piece of Shelley ware, fashioned
from English Bone China by
craftsmen who have spent their
lives creating beautiful things,
as their fathers before them.
Shelley China retains its freshness
through the years with a subtle
attraction for both young and
old —the attraction of Beaut)
that charms by its very reticence.
TO SEE THE LATEST
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery \Mar.e
fx/ Lucie Attwell
t Hilda Cowham
Dome Stic Ware
Jelly Moulds
IM CASE OF
. CO. LTD,
iHce
JVDMEV
232.CLAR.KNCe ST.
mm
hair
l* v
NEED
0
HERBS
•umu-
Jk
Grey Hair ia always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally jf she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
SfrcUleris CMEX/CAN)
WoXnujt
’-REMOVES THE GREY ’
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (4/6), 6d. being postage.
fp
Amusements,
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES,
*'■' J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. 'fait, Frank Tuit.
HER MAJESTY’S:
A COUNTRY GIRL
CRITERION: WHITE CARGO
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
GLADYS MONCRIEFF in
KATINKA.
(COMMENCING SATURDAY, MAY 17.)
NEW COMEDY THEATRE:
THE HAWK,
With WM. FAVERSHAM, ANN DAYIS
and Special Company.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
WHITE & EDGLEY’S NEW MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
in
SO THIS IS LOVE.
IJOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
* * MELBOURNE.
TWO 100 PER CENT. TALKIES.
INA CLAIR in
THE AWFUL TRUTH
(Conditional Picture)
AND
LOIS MORAN in
A SONG OF KENTUCKY.
Missing Friends.
IWIcMAHON. —The next-of-kin of Michael
McMahon, who died on August 3, 1929,
late of Wodonga, Victoria, formerly of New
South Wales, whose fathei* was Thomas
McMahon, are requested to communicate
with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 67 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
r\
“ By my Noble-
man’s word, 1
have never
tasted better
IN 1534, Francis I. gave the
new elixir Benedictine
his Royal endorsement in
enthusiastic terms. And to-
day, Benedictine is still the
choice of connoisseurs and
discriminating hosts the
world over. As a liqueur its
wonderful flavour and de-
lightful bouquet have placed
it in a class apart. A dash of
Benedictine in your Cock-
tails will improve them
tremendously, too. Try it!
For Four Centuries the World’s
Supreme Liqueur
BENEDICTINE
Legal Notice.
Re WILLIAM COOPER, Deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery Division
in the High Court of Justice dated the 21st
day of January 1930 and made in an action In the
Matter of the Trusts of the Will of William Cooper
deceased (formerly of Crescent Wood Road Syden-
ham Hill in the County of Surrey gent, who died
on the sixth day of May 1885) Townend v. Townend
1916 C. No. 1505 whereby the following enquiries
were directed :
(1) An enquiry what children (other than John
Henderson and Mary Ann Best) of the brothers and
sisters of the abovenamed Testator William Cooper
there were living at the Testator’s death who had
then attained or thereafter attained the age of
21 years.
(2) An enquiry what issue (whether children or
more remote issue) there were of such if any of
the children (other than as aforesaid) of the
Testator’s brothers and sisters as had died in the
Testator’s lifetime leaving issue but so that if and
as often as in any stirpes in any degree a person
is found who did not predecease the Testator and
who attained the age of 21 years no enquiry shall
be made with regard to the children or remoter
issue of such person.
(3) An enquiry whether any person found to be
a child in answer to enquiry (1) and any person
(other than a person ’who predeceased the Testator
or died without attaining the age of 21 years) found
to be issue in answer to enquiry (2) is living or
dead and if dead who is his or her legal personal
representative.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said enquiries
are on or before the 30th day of August 1930 to
send by post prepaid to Cecil Foster Esquire 7
Queen Street Place Cannon Street London E.C.4
England their full Christian names and Surnames
addresses and descriptions and full particulars of
their claims or in default thereof they will be
excluded from the benefit of the said Order unless
the Court or Judge on application otherwise orders.
Claimants are to attend personally or by Solicitor
before Master Watkin Williams at the Chambers
of the Judge Room No. 157 Royal Courts of Justice
Strand London England on Wednesday the 15th
October 1930 at 12 o’clock noon being the time
appointed for adjudicating upon the claims.
A claimant not residing in England or Wales must
send with particulars of claim the name and address
of a person in England or Wales to whom notices
to the claimant can be, sent.
Dated this 27th day of March 1930.
R. T. WATKIN WILLIAMS,
Master.
Foster, Spicer & Foster, 7 Queen Street Place,
London, E.C.4, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
Note. —The Testator William Cooper had eight
brothers and sisters, namely, Jane Cooper, who
married Benjamin Best; the Reverend James Cooper,
who married Amelia Cherrill; Mary Cooper, who
married James Henderson ; Henry Cooper ; Elizabeth
Cooper, who married William Townend ; Sarah Cooper,
who married James Price ; Thomas Cooper; and
Ann Cooper—who may have left issue entitled to
claim.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 Georae Street, Sydney.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland's
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Westralia’s Governor, Sir William Cam-
pion, accompanied Sir John Goodwin to the
Q.T.C. races at Ascot. Lady Goodwin, who
came later in the day, was in ash-rose mari-
ette and guipure, with a wine-red coat and
hat. Mrs. E. K. Tully was in navy, with a
beige velour coat and white fur collar
Mrs. A. H. Whittingham chose leaf brown.
In the evening, the Governor and Lady Good-
win attended the second of the Cahill-Brooke
concerts. Eddie Cahill played 16 numbers
and George Brooke sang 28 songs.
It. C. Cowley, who was the only Aus-
tralian pharmacist on the commission
appointed last year to revise the British
Pharmacopoeia, died last week of bronchitis.
He was a native of Lancashire who came
to Australia at 21 and took charge of the
Pharmacy College then being established in
Brisbane. He leaves a widow and five
children.
The Uni. students managed to infuse some
humor into their procession on Commem.
Day. The new City Hall was caricatured with
an alarum clock for the tower and a bit of
bar iron for the chimes. The floral emblem
of Brisbane, for which there has lately been
public voting, was found in the mountain
weed known as “Stinking Roger,” and the
Mawson Antarctic expedition was symbolised
by a number of students disguised as dogs and
attached to a sledge labelled the “B-Lizard
Express.” “Sow More Wild Oats” took the
place of the slogan “Grow More Wheat,”
which figures so largely on one’s correspond-
ence nowadays. The City Hall saw the con-
ferring of degrees. The Governor and Lady
Goodwin were there, Mr. McCaffrey, regis-
trar of the Uni., the Blair lady and Mrs.
Richards being of the party.
Lady Goodwin opened the annual fSte of
the Y.W.C.A. in the association’s rooms in
Adelaide-street, where she was received by
Mrs. W. H. Barnes and Elsie Reid,
gen. sec. Her Ex. wore ash-rose mariette
under a burgundy repp coat; Mrs. Barnes
was in white, over powder-blue. Willing
workers had made the stalls a symphony in
red and brown, and gum-tree foliage and
ferns made a brave showing. Laburnum
blooms, tall sunflowers and pink rambler
roses were other items in the color scheme.
J.C.W. got Charles Dearden to direct the
Toowoomba production of “Journey’s End,”
which is coming to His Majesty’s.' He also
ran Ruth' Portraite’s concert in the City
Hall. Ruth, who goes abroad to study, did
well with her grand-opera items. Rebe
Ivesslova played the violin and Jack Wallis
the piano, with E. R. B. Jordan doing
most of the singer’s accompaniments. On
the same evening, the Mayor and Mayoress
entertained the City Council choir when the
shield won in the eisteddfod was handed
over.
Thousands of Queenslanders will feel more
than ordinary sorrow when they read of the
death of G. R. Mayers, the Northerner who
went to Brit-
is h East
Africa a few
years ago and
acquired the
proper ties
which, with
the help of
friends, he
later formed
the Victoria
Nyanza Sugar
Co. to work.
Like all of
Mr. Mayers’s
ventures this
was a great
success. He is
survived b y
Mrs. Mayers,
who is a
grand-daughter
of the late
Rev. Edward
Smith, first
Anglican incumbent of St. John’s, Canberra,
and later rector of Manly (N.S.W.). There
are six sons and four daughters, two of the
former being on the directorate of the East
African cos. The eldest son, Horace Rus-
sell, Avas killed in France in 1917. William
H. and Marston Mayers, of Cairns, are sur-
viving brothers; Miss A. M. L. Mayers, of
Concord, Sydney, is the only sister.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Bishop Snowdon put in an extra-busy
week before sailing for England and the
Lambeth Conference. Synod business was
got through with more dispatch than is
usually shown. Town was full of black
coats for the occasion, but owing to the
press of \york the usual clerical garden
party at Bisliopscourt had to be abandoned.
Mayor Soundy gave a farewell morning tea
in his parlor at the Town Hall, where a big
throng congregated to wish' bon voyage to the
hard-working bishop and his lady.
Nora Perkins’s exhibition of hand-woven
goods at (lie Imperial was full of interest.
The tweeds were particularly attractive;
there is always a charm about our own
woollens Avhen taste has gone into their
color schemes. Silk and cotton goods also
showed to advantage, and the Angora wool
fabrics were fascinating in their warmth and
lightness.
Secondary-school boys invaded Launceston
in full force for the Head-of-the-River con-
test, rowed over the Henley course on the
Tamar. Hutchins bore off the honors, with
Clemes College second and Launceston
Grammar third. Headmaster and Mrs.
Harris went north for the event, and were
all smiles at their school’s victory.
Rain interfered somewhat with the finals of
the championship tennis matches. Among the
women, Mrs. Bond (South) won the suprem-
acy against Miss Jillett (North), while to
Enid Brownell went the girls’ junior cham-
pionship. A number of Northern supporters
came down with their team. Geo. Gragg,
president of the Tas. Association, presented
the trophies.
Longford Show, held at a much earlier
date than usual, drew a record attendance.
Mrs. Arthur Bennett and Barbara* Bennett
repeated their numerous successes in the
lady’s hack class, with V.C. and Alert,
owners up.
The Canadian Miss A. .Walker blew into
Hobart on her pedestrian itinerary round
the world, looking as if the exercise agreed
with her. She appeared at one of the picture
theatres along with a film of her travels.
Mrs. Waugh, Miss Webster a*nd Mrs.
Minna Nares are wandering Tasmanians due
to return in the spring, after many months in
the Cold Country and on the Continent.
Mrs. Baxter and the energetic committee
which had everything in train for the chil-
dren’s party on Princess Betty’s birthday
were reluctantly obliged to abandon the
scheme.. That dreaded visitant infantile
paralysis is among us, and gatherings of
children were consequently vetoed by the
Health Officer.
Gertie, youngest daughter of Mrs. and the
late W. Atkins, and Keith White, Penang
Rubber Estates, Penang, are receiving the
congratulations that come the way of about-
to-be-wedded couples.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
With much pomp and ceremony the new-
building of St. Mary’s Cathedral was
dedicated. Pontifical High Mass, accom-
panied by an orchestra and a choir
of 150 voices rendering Schubert’s Mass
in A flat, was celebrated at 11 a.m. Sydney
Smith conducted the choir and the Countess
Filippini waved her baton for the bojbs and
girls’ choir outside which heralded the
approach of the procession of dignitaries.
The visiting prelates were among the
speakers at the afternoon ceremony in the
cathedral grounds. The day’s donations
amounted to £16,000, including a cheque for
£lO,OOO signed by Miss McArdle.
Built almost entirely of Donnybrook stone,
and containing treasures of historic value
and great beauty, the new cathedral is mag-
nificent. The Lady chapel is an exquisite
gem. Behind its honey-colored altar, golden
onyx from Algeria, the Avail up to the roof
is covered with a copy of Murillo’s “Immacu-
late Conception.” Blue-glass and white
mosaics make a pattern of Easter lilies
around the walls above dadoes of green and
gold marble. The altar step of red Levant
marble rises above a mosaic floor. The large
altar in the main cathedral was a gift of
the King of Spain Avhen the Benedictines
first came to these parts.
Tennis champion Ron Ford and Bessie
Spencer were made one at St. John’s Church,
Northam. The bride was arrayed in a period
gown of white brocade and was followed up
the aisle by one attendant in leaf-green
velvet and another in burnt-orange.
There was no hint of autumn about the
temperature, for the first May race-meeting.
Mrs. Marillier wore a brown felt with her
honey-colored romaine; Mrs. Garner’s browny
tweed suit had a three-quarter coat; the
fashionable sherry-red was worn by Mrs.
John Stodart. One of the smartest gowns
was Nell Stewart’s black satin with its flare
at the back and touch of ecru lace; the same
material found favor with Mrs. Edgar
Meares, who sported a bright blue neck
accessory. Poppy Salom’s dove-greys included
matching head- and foot-wear; navy tailored
costumes were worn by Mrs. Walter Dwyer
and Margaret Gavan Duffy; Ariel McGhie
Avas graceful in cocoa-brown wool crepe;
Miss Moustaka was in blue and her sister
chose sulphur; Mrs. Monteath was notice-
able in well-cut navy moire. Rain spoiled
the second meeting, sending every one into
tweeds.
On Boatrace Day Mount’s Bay-road was
a stream of cars and there seemed to be as
many people as bushes on the slopes of Mt.
Eliza. The race, a struggle between Chris-
tian Brothers and Scotch College, resulted in
the 15th win, and the fifth in succession,
for C.B.
A Children’s Hospital dance in the Y.A.L.
Hall was a great success. Reds and browns
of chrysanthemums and zinnias and trails
of Virginia creeper decorated the supper
tables, where eight nurses in uniforms Avere
hostesses. Lady Campion wore draped apri-
cot chiffon and satin and Mrs. Kerr-Pearse
accompanied her in cyclamen georgettes.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
There is a whirl of entertainment impend-
ing, with four State Governors and six
bishops among the guests. The Mayoress
(Mrs. Bonython) is giving an at-home on
Thursday in honor of the Toe. II Federal
president (Sir William R. Campion), who
is visiting Adelaide with many members
of the organisation for the fifth birthday
festival.
On Wednesday night, after theGup meeting,
there will be a ball at the Maison, Glenelg.
On Thursday evening the Guy Makins are
giving a dance as a welcome to Mr. and Mrs.
E. Palmer and their daughter, who arrive
from England by the Maloja. Mrs. Palmer is
a sister of Mrs. Makin.
The National Council of Women are hold-
ing an at-home at the Town Hall on May 15
for the inter-State visitors; there will be
Toe H' celebrations as well. There is to be
no Mayoral Ball this winter, but there will
be several functions in aid of charities,
which never needed funds more than now.
William Sowden’s lady opened Miss
Baynes’s exhibition of water-colors at the
rooms of the Society of Arts, and made a
graceful speech, drawing special attention to
the picture of Hurtle Fisher’s residence, a
survival from the ’forties.
The Committee dance in aid of the Mothers
and Babies’ Health Association was held in
the Norwood Town Hall last week. Some very
smart frocking was in evidence and the
chrysanthemum decorations were gorgeous.


THE GOSSARD LINE of BEAUTY
SISli HISI %
■
J
■
■
■
V <'
mm
Here is a step-in of satin and elastic, Model 1022,
It is lightly boned at the waistline.
GossardsGive
a Pric
Always—a correctly fitted Gossard
achieves for you a priceless requisite of
good dress —confidence in your figure.
As your eye traces the slenderizing lines
of a perfectly fitting Gossard you are
aware of your share of figure loveliness.
As you feel its snug support of your
body contours you have a new and joy-
ous confidence in your appearance.
Gossards are made in all the favourite
designs —Solitaires, step-ins, girdles,
front-lacing corsets and brassieres. In
every price group you will find the
designing superior, the workmanship
faultless.
THE CANADIAN H. W. GOSSARD CO., Limited
114-120 Castlereagh Street .. Sydney, N. S. W.
THE EMPIRE
K-AUST-11P
MADE
WITHIN
Dances.on the verandah to the music of
the gramophone; picnics to the head of
one of the saltwater creeks in Hughie’s
truck; an occasional Sunday on the inner
beach at Rath bone Island, with Lew and
Uncle Tony doing all the rowing! These
were the things that brought them together
again as a family, and made the homecom-
ing of Fred and Mamie an event. Slowly
they were being penetrated by a feeling
that they were going up in the world.
Hughie was making an independent living
with his truck; the ice-macliine and
freezing-room that had been installed in
the yard gave a sense of security; and
Fred was talking about sending home
money when he found a job. Life was no
longer a nerve-straining pull against the
current. The tide was at the slack, and
soon would be running their way.
At least that was' how T it appeared to
Anna, as she strolled with Marnie along
the breakwater in the summer evenings
when the tea things had been cleared away.
Voices coming faintly from the houses, a
bloom of fading color on the water, some-
thing in the luminous air that led the
thoughts outward and gave them an emo-
tional turn! She had fought a hard fight
to give the children a chance, and now she
was beginning to reap the reward for her
efforts. It wasn’t likely they would ever
be thrust back into the crude struggle for
enough clothes to cover them and enough
bread to put in their mouths! Those days
were past, thank goodness! These children
of hers were all at home in the world, quick
to adapt themselves to the changes going
on around them, confident of their own
capacity. Yet she was bracing herself for
another struggle as she listened to Mamie’s
talk about the girls at Eumerella, and
gazed vaguely over to the lights of the
fishermen on the sandbank. It wasn’t likely
this place would satisfy Hughie and Marnie
for ever. They must get to town some
day, push their way into a bigger world
where brains and energy could command
their proper price.
“Lew’ll stick here,” she thought. “He
wouldn’t be at home anywhere else. And
before long there’ll be some woman or
other”
The face of the McNair girl came back
into her mind, rousing curious reflections.
What a strong dislike she had felt for her
slim figure and dark, intense eyes, and how
she had tried in all sorts of ways to keep
Lew from meeting her! But there had
been nothing very personal in the feeling;
it had come from a deep instinct to hang
on to Lew as the main support of the
family. She couldn’t afford to have Lew
thinking about making a home for some
other woman when the holding together of
their own home needed all his strength
and effort. But with Hughie doing well,
and Mamie and Fred on the verge of
earning money for themselves, Lew no
longer seemed so important. And there
had been little risk of his marrying the
McNair girl, after all; she wasn’t the sort
to settle down as the wife of a fisherman,
washing salt-stiffened clothes, and staying
up late to cook meals when the men were
out with the boats.
Clem, indeed, had not come back to the
Passage that summer, though only Lew
knew the reason. She hated the thought
of little week-end bungalows going up in
the paddocks and maidenhair gullies, of
trees being cut down, and summer visitors
wandering past the back door, inspecting
their allotments. The old house still
remained in the family’s possession, with
an acre or so around it, but it had lost
its character and privacy. When she had
grown used to the idea of all this change
she might come back again, she wrote, but
meanwhile she had gone to stay with some
friends in Sydney.
It was only gradually being borne in on
Lew how much he had looked forward to
her return, and what a gap her absence
made. As he shot the nets on the sand-
bank for scanty hauls of whiting he thought
about her constantly, remembering days
of other summers that seemed timeless and
magical now they were past. Long walks
over the flower-plains, swims in sheltered
coves, picnics by the side of the Three-
mile Swamp, where the cabbage-palms
grew! The emotion these memories roused
in him was deep but vague, a thing of the
spirit. What a power Clem had of making
common and familiar things seem strange
and new! And how her presence excited
some secret part of him that was usually"
drowsy and covered with silt! Not his
sense of sex! No thrill of contact went
through him when he casually touched her
arm or body. He had grown used to her as
a boy; perhaps that was the reason for it.
Yet now that he had come to full
strength there were slumbering passions in
him that sometimes disturbed him by their
force and intensity. How acutely his male
pride had suffered that day at the sports
when he found Lena hadn’t witnessed his
long dive! What a dark hatred of Craig
he had felt when he called up their images
afterwards! Even now he was conscious
of a stirring of turgid emotions when
Craig’s face came before his eyes. On some
obscure battleground within him words
were exchanged in anger, there were fights
with fists, black clouds came bellying up
out of the night. But such scenes did not
take plaoe in the daylight hours, only when
he was on the edge of sleep. In the morn-
ing he could forget them, like his other
dreams.
He was mooching about the headland one
cold, grey day, watching for signs of the
first mullet coming up from the south,
when he saw a horse tied up among the
banksia and Lena herself sitting on the
rocks below', drawing on her stockings. Her
hat w'as off, her dress rucked up over her
knees, the expression of her face moody
and absorbed. At first she glanced at him
coming over the wet sand as if she hardly
recognised him. Her blue eyes had an
ashy look; there was no color or light in
them.
“All alone?” he began, with a hint of
challenge.
For a moment she seemed to resent his
approach.
“Looks like it, doesn’t it? I came down
here for a day on the beach, and what a
day it’s turned out to be! A rotten, cold
wind blowing, and the water full of floating
weed!”
He sat down on the edge of the rock,
dropping pebbles on the tiny, transparent
shrimps that were moving about in the
shallovv pool.
“Yes,” he said. “It’s the end of summer.
None too soon, as far as I’m concerned.
I want to see the fish coming in again....
Where’s Craigie?”
“Finished up. Gone west on some job or
other.”
“For long?”
“O Lord, how can I tell! It may be a
month or two, and it may be donkeys’
years. He’s not tied to any one place. At
home wherever there’s good money going
—that’s Craigie.”
She shook her fair hair back and stood
up, as if throwing some memory behind
her defiantly. For a few moments her eyes
rested critically on the back of Lew’s
head and his brown neck as he bent down
to pick the small pebbles out of the pool
again. It was as if he gradually took reality
and shape for her as she watched him,
emerging out of some thin, obscuring mist,
mist.
“What a God-forsaken place this looks
when there’s a south-easter blowing!” she
said at last. “Nothing moving except the
dirty bits of newspapers the last campers
left behind I wonder how you put in
all your days here. You never came over
to Glenrowan for tennis. I’m not going
to ask you again.”
He looked up, a queer flush under his
eyes.
“You’re not? Try me just once more,
Lena.”
“Well, yes--I might. Men are scarce
these days, and girls have to pocket their
pride and make the best of what’s going.
Young Hughie didn’t need to be asked
twice. He makes a day of it whenever he
has to come out to Glenrowan in the truck.
... .Did he tell you I was thinking of going
as a nurse?”
“No,” said Lew. “Are you?”
“I might.”
“Lots of things might happen. They’re
not worth taking into account.”
“Oh, I’m not the sort to waste time over
day dreams. Once I make up my mind
about a thing, it’s done. And I’ve felt the
moss growing over me out there lately....
How d’you think I’d look in a nurse’s
costume?”
She glanced at him with a curious, side-
ways look as they went up the cliff together.
He knew that the question was merely
provocative; that she had no thought of
training for a nurse, really, and that the
whole idea had been vamped-up on the
spur of the moment. But that didn’t pre-
vent his blood from being roused by the
way her flying glance rested on his eyes or
her body rubbed against his as they walked.
He evaded the empty compliment she
awaited, though; he couldn’t bring his lips
to frame it.
“I don’t know,” he said. “You look
better as you are Is it because Craigie’s
gone you feel at a loose end out there?”
“Oh, Craigie?” she said, with a little
grimace. “I’m not worrying about him.
That’s all off. Napoo! Dead finish.”
She tossed her head back and went up
the cliff at a run. The moodiness had
slipped from her, and something tempera-
mental and challenging had taken its
place. Her long, slim body had become
fluid and alive, as conscious of its own
attraction as on that morning when she
had sat on the table in the fish-shed,
swinging her legs. At the top of the cliff
she stopped to pick up a stone, and after
juggling with it a few moments she turned
and hurled it on the rocks below, a flash
of pleasure coming to her eyes as it split
into fragments.
“If you’re Coming part of the way home
with me, I’ll walk and lead my horse,” she
said, with a touch of condescension that
was like a command.
(To be continued next week. )
The Ninth Planet.
Lorre wanderer in outer realms of space,
An infant of the sun untimely born,
A frozen globe, forgotten and forlorn,
Swings on its orbit at its ordered pace.
Immutable it holds itself in place,
No friendly Earth with beauty to adorn
No draping of green fields with trees and
corn,
Grimly it circles with a vacant face.
Yet Man can by his instruments disperse
The night that swathes the cosmic galaxy
Finding new splendors as we tensely probe’
Till all the heavens drop their velvet robe’
And through the darkness we can plainly see
That mote of matter in the universe'
N'.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


uring mntrif Weather
heat your home inexpensively*
the Hecla way..
.“HECLA’’ Radiant Fires, with the
Hecla patented “screw-in” type
heating element.
mm
“Don” Design.
The reflector can
be turned to a
horizontal position,
forming a stand
for boiling or
toasting.
9in., 700 or 1000
Watts, S.E.,
£2/1/-
12in., 700 or 1000
Watts, S.E.,
£2/12/-
12in., 1400 or 2000
Watts, D.E.,
£3/10/6
“Apex” Design
A sturdy model,
with a solid cast
base, and a reflec-
tor that can be
turned to a hori-
zontal position.
9in., 700 or 1000
Watts, S.E.,
£l/5/6
12in., 700 or 1000
Watts, S.E.,
£l/13/6
mm
s !
“Imperial”
Design.
A neat, strong
design finished in
Oxy Copper or
Butler Silver.
9in., 700 or 1000
Watts, S.E.,
£2/14/6
12in., 700 or 1000
Watts, S.E.,
£3/5/6
12in., 1400 or 200j0
Watts, D.E.
£4/4/-
"Century”
Design.
A charming period
design, . sturdily
constructed. Oxy
Copper or Butler
Silver finish.
9in., 700 or 1000
Watts, S.E.,
£2/12/6
12in., 700 or 1000
Watts, S.E.,
£B/3/6
12in., 1400 or 2000
Watts, D.E.
£4/2/-
mm
mm
NOTE: S.E., Single Elements.
D.E., Double Elements.
WINTRY June cold. . . .clammy penetrating
every room despite closed doors. Blustering July
.... rattling windows with icy fingers.... thrusting right
into your home with vicious little draughts. Old Man
Winter is going to be difficult to keep out this year. . . .
unless your home is defended electrically with Hecla Fires.
Hecla hires make it possible to keep every room comfort-
able. . . .livable. . . .even when a freezing mountain wind
is blowing outside. Hecla Electric Fires are moderately
priced in a wide range with a model to suit any style of
furnishing. And they’re an investment—because they’re
so well made. . . .so well designed that they last almost
indefinitely. Nearly 300,000 Australian rooms are Hecla
equipped now, because Hecla workmanship is far in
advance of competition.... and electricity is the cheapest
winter fuel.
See the largest Hecla stock in Sydney at our Showrooms,
Clarence Street, or post coupon for full particulars.
“HECLA”
Electrical Fires
indistinguishable
from leaping, flicker-
ing flames, comfort-
able, clean heat.
At right—“Empress’"
Design, consumes
3000 watts on full
heat.
Two-h eat control.
Weight, 581 b.
Dimensions: 2 1
W., H., lOin.
D. Complete with
flickerscope,
£l2/12/-
mm
wrn
<«,SLAw'£
“HECLA”
Sun-Bar Fires
(Left) “Chariot”
Design, featuring a
hase-relief panel de-
picting a Roman
chariot race.
Two bar, 2000 W.,
£8 /87-
Three bar, 3000 W.,
£9/9/-
(Right) "Regent”
Design, a most digni-
fied design.
Three bar, 3000 W.,
£5/17/6
Overall Dimensions:
Two bar 1 7in. W.,
20-fin. H., 9in. D.
Three bar—1 7in. W,,
2 1 fin. H., 9in. D.
Hecla Electric Fires,
and ”Hecla” Elec-
tric Domestic
Appliances are Aus-
tralian-made by an
All-Australian Com-
pany. Each Hecla
Appliance is guaran-
teed against electri-
cal failure for 12
months, but careful
organisation gives
every purchaser in
the cities and in
remote country dis-
tricts full service
facilities and quickly
obstainable spare
parts.
mm
WILLIAM ADAMS € COMPANY
__ LI M ITEP ✓
175 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
“HECLA” Electric Iron.
A quality iron, with a mirror-like
ironing surface, perfectly balanced
handle and heated right to the point.
Chromium-plated sole plate only, 30/-
All chromium-plated, 33/-
Why the Hecla Iron is Chromium-
plated.
Chromium is the hardest metal
known; it is 95% the hardness of a
diamond. It is practically untarnish-
able, unstainable. A Hecla Iron,
with a chromium-plated sole plate
will glide over all materials with
a velvety smoothness that delights
the user.
- —I
' m*‘?sri&o2L
/ *sat» e •■'■’
kddres* •' ‘' ... " '
l -•* Z—~rrr~ "


THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
<r
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
/003 J
Boole
to At
)
\s
S 3
SEJE£
Either before you sail or even whilst on
the voyage—be sure you book at “ Scott’s,”
and so assure the most comfortable,
modern and efficient hotel service in
Melbourne.
Just a short wire—
and a delightful room
will be ready await-
ing your arrival.
Bed and Breakfast
or Inclusive Tariff
Telegrams and Cables:
“ Scottsotel,” Melbourne
S-4o
AS WE SAID BEFORE
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
Simon Moss, an old identity of the Hay
(N.S.W.) district, has just died in Mel-
bourne, where he with his fortune,
made in the palmy days. He was a wealthy
man before he was abl„e to sign a cheque.
Many stories are told of his skill in dealing.
THE OPENING OF PARLIAMENT—MUCH WIND,
BUT LITTLE IN IT.
He once called upon the wealthy Mr. Ricket-
son of the Murrumbidgee and pressed him
to deal for an article. Being afraid of
Simon he resisted, but at length said: “Well,
what do you want for the diamond ring?”
“Vatever you like,” said Moss; “I gives
it to you at your own price.” “Right,”
said the buyer, determined to offer a price
so low that Simon would have to back out
or lose money; “I’ll give you ten pounds for
it.” “Veil,” said Simon, “I’m a man of
my vord, Mr. Ricketzon; I zaid you should
haf it, und by , I sticks to it.” After
the trade was over and the money paid,
the buyer said : “Now Moss, you’ve got the
money, and it don’t matter to you; tell me
how much the ring cost you?” “Veil, I
tells you, Mr. Ricketzon —mitout a vord
of a lie, it cost dree and zixpense.”
The once-famous Caledonian mine at the
Thames (M.L.) has just been disposed of for
a trifling sum to an English syndicate. This
mine had the reputation of being the richest
quartz-mine in the world. In two years over
£2,000,000 worth of gold was won from one
reef, and in one year the shareholders had
£572,000 divided amongst them. The shares
went up to £212 each, but, strange to say,
many of the original shareholders hung on
to their stock after it had passed the meridian
of prosperity. One man named Farmer, who
was a hea*vy shareholder, was so much
excited at his sudden acquisition of wealth
that his intellect began to totter, and by the
advice of liis medical adviser his shares were
sold right at the top figure. Farmer realised
£IOO,OOO and is now alive, in good health,
and still hanging to his “little bit.” It was in
the Caledonian that Tom Russell, at one
time a crony of the Prince of Wales and
well known on London Stock Exlumge, made
fiis first big rise. For the past 10 years he
lias resided in England. A few years back,
when the Russians were threatening an
advance on Constantinople, Russell got an
early tip that the British lion was going to
wag his tail and checkmate the Czar, and he
thereupon rooked the market of Turkish bonds
and netted a cool three-quarters of a million.
And writing of the Caledonian mine we are
reminded of a funny incident. Thousands of
pounds’ worth of specimen stone had been pil-
fered from the mine and crushing battery,
and the directors were quite at a loss how to
check it. Amalgam—that is the gold mixed
with mercury—was also known to be disap-
pearing in large quantities from the battery,
and though detectives were imported and
disguised as “feeders” and “blanket, boys” no
detection followed. Just when the rifling was
at its height, Mr. 11. A. Severn (father, by
the way, of Mr. A.
M. Severn, of Syd-
ney), a man of
high character and
g reat scientific
knowledge, was
appointed . manager
of the battery. A
day or two after
Severn took charge
he ordered tbe
engineer to stop
the. battery right
in the middle ofi
the shift and sum-
moned all the em-
ployees into the
engine-room, where
three enormous
Cornish boilers
were in full blast.
He then marshalled
them in a line in
front of* the boilers,
well within the
action of the heat,
and closely scanned
the clean iron floor
on wlii c h they
stood. Presently,
at the feet of sev-
eral men along the
rank, little shining
globules of mer-
cury began to
appear, the heat
causing the stolen
amalgam that they
had concealed about
their persons to
“sweat,” and the
mercury, of course,
found its way to
the ground. A good
many of the thieves
were weeded out by this clever device. Poor
Severn died seven or eight years ago at
Madras, where he held the post of Govern-
ment Inspector-General of the Wynaad gold-
mines.
N. S. Wales Parliamentary amenities. Mr.
Haynes: “After the vote of Friday morning a
member said to me, ‘Did you see how the
Mickies were on our side?’” Mr. Slattery:
“You were a Micky yourself, only you changed
your coat.” Just here Mr. McElhone, as the
custodian of the dignity of the Houses, rises
to order, and indignantly asks “What is
the meaning of this word ‘Micky,’ just used
by that mean cowardly skunk? I'm a Micky
mvself, and by th ! holy” Mr. Speaker:
“Order! These references to religion most
not go on. I name the hon. member, Mr.
McElhone, member for the Upper Hunter, as
interfering with the conduct of this House.”
Mr. McElhone: “I apologise, Mr. Speaker. I
apologise; but I'll spit in his eye when I get
him outside .”
S V. Winter is left alone in his glory on
Melbourne “Herald.” John Halfey loved the
“Herald” so much that he selected its office
to die in last week. The “Herald” has
undergone a lot of changes since ’71. In
that year a company bought it from old
William Forsyth,
the builder (now
dead), who erected
Wesley Chapel in
Lonsdale - street,
Melbourne, one of
the finest and pret-
tiest churches in
Victoria. The first
directors of the
paper were F. C.
Mason, ex-M.L.A.;
Milne, of the Carl-
ton Brewery; John
Curtain, afterwards
M.L.A. and now a
wealthy distiller on
Yarra Bank; Win-
ter, and the late
Jerry Dwyer, the
barrister. The
general manager
was A. B. Robin-
son, now commer-
cial editor of the
“Age.” Before long
Mason and Milne
dropped out; Jerry
never took much
interest in the con-
cern, and Halfey
came in. In 1878
the paper was sold
up by a successful
plaintiff in a libel
action and was
bought by Halfey
on behalf of him-
self and others.
The plaintiff didn't
get much coin out
of the transaction.
Curtain, II a 1 f e y,
Winter and P. J.
Martin, the brewer,
then became the
proprietors. About
six years ago Cur-
tain sold out to
his co-proprietors;
somewhere about
the same time
Martin w e u t
smash, and so 'Win-
ter and Halfey
were left, alone in
the swim. Now
Halfey has taken
his departure and
Winter alone re-
mains. The survival of the fittest 1 Hooray !
Halfey was disgustingly rich. Not many
years ago there was a boom in a cer-
tain mining stock. John remembered
that he had some of its scrip stowed
away somewhere —bought long before at
Id. a share, or something; he fos-
sicked it up and found that it was now
worth £4OOO. He had money invested in all
kinds of companies—opera* and life assurance,
newspapers and mining. Mr. Halfey looked
upon a* newspaper as a thing to make money
out of; he had no more sympathy with
literature than a crow.
A delicate little fancy in feminine adorn-
ment is to wear an imitation moth or a
gaudy sham butterfly fixed on to the naked
shoulder when the wearer is in evening dress.
It looks pretty, and it tends to aggravate
the man sitting behind, who is filled with
a longing to brush the miserable beast off
when he sees it infesting a pretty girl’s back
right in front of him. By-and-bye, when the
fashion advances a little further, the aver-
age female will have a spider roosting on
her arm and a full-blown cockroach on the
knots of her spine, and then some well-
meaning but lamentably ignorant person will
spank her suddenly in his desire to squash
the insect, and will be firmly convinced that
he is doing a good turn by perpetrating this
uncalled-for assault,.
During the trial of Palmer, the poisoner,
Sergeant Shee, in liis excitement, thumped
his brief on the table, and, in tragic tones,
roared, “I call Heavefl to witness"
Lord Campbell stopped him with a gentle:
“Brother Shee, had you not better call some-
one who could be cross-examined?”
Some worshippers in a French Protestant
church have ra*ised a libel action against the
pastor for stating that they were all miserable
sinners and filled with uncleanness and
degradation. He made this remark from the
pulpit in the ordinary course, but the con-
gregation has resolved to test the legal right
of any preacher to slang them from the top
storey of the church. They point out that
if he bailed up one of the young ladies ot
his flock in the street and told her that she
was a miserable sinner and a wor-rum ot the
dust, also a whited sepulchre and a child ot
ev ib and there was no good in her, a*nd that
where every prospect pleases only she was
vile, he would be whaled by her big brother
and sued by her father and fired out ot the
sanctuary ; and they inquire if the offence
is lessened in any way by the fact that it is
heaved at a* hundred other people at the
same time and interspersed with hymns which
“I hope you will be lenient with me, yer Warship,” whined the
thief as he prepared for sentence; “I have a good many
dependent on me for support.”
“Children?” inquired the Bench.
“No, yer Warship; police and detectives.”
state that they are all hideous and depraved.
They further charge him with having
informed them that they were going to Sheol,
and they ask that this sort of thing should
be suppressed. The pastor pleads, on the
other hand, that he was hired to state that
his congregation was sinful and horrible and
disgusting, and that if he put it strongly he
was merely anxious to give them good value
for their money; and thus _the good fight
enters upon a new phase which threatens to
undermine the ground-props of the poor
parson and bring him to the dust.
What sights you do meet on the Sydney
block! One misguided creature turned out
the other day in a green dress, buttercup-
tinted hat and bright yellow gloves; while an
oxtremely massive lady wore a white muslin
of gauze-like texture, the unlined sleeves
whereof revealed a pair of lobster-colored
arms, shaped like and nearly as big as
bolsters. Another equally well-developed
form was clad in a pink and white zephyr of
a huge checked pattern, with a white satin
waistcoat-front adorned with a large bunch
of gold chain and trinkets.
The late Sir Redmond Barry, Judge of the
Supreme Court of Victoria, who is being
honored with a statue, wfis a most. dignified
man and withal a humorist. An insolvent,
filing his schedule in forma pauperis, pre-
sented the document to the Judge for accept-
ance, as was then the custom. Sir Redmond
scanned the paper carefully, and in his usual
gorgeous style asked the applicant what he
wanted. “To surrender my estate, your
Honor!” “Estate! Estate! Why, your
assets are nil. You have no estate, sir, to
surrender.” “What am I to do, your Honor?"
“I am not here to advise you, sir” (with
great dignity), “but if I were, I should say,
buy a shilling razor and set your assets down
at'a shilling. The razor might be useful
afterwards.” The razor'was purchased, the
assets set down at a shilling, and the sur-
render of the “estate” accepted.
LACHLAN SIDE.
Region of damper and “junk” and tea,
Region of pasture wide !
The fairest spots in the world to me
Are out in the Lachlan Side.
I’m off to the Lachlan Side ,
Where the bright lagoons are wide;
I long for river and grass and tree
And someone dearer than all to me,
Far out on the Lachlan Side.
My heart was hardened against advice
And reason I would not see,
For by the ocean a paradise
The city appeared to me.
(Chorus.)
“Not I for a bumpkin’s fate,” I cried,
“I’ll not be a country clown !
A life’s too slow on the Lachlan Side;
I’ll go to the shining town !”
I’ve lost the battle, I strike the flag,
The town may sink in the tide;
A wiser head and a lighter swag
I take to the Lachlan Side.
When crops of wool on the plains shall grow,
Shall flourish in drought or rain,
And when the shearers begin to mow
I’ll come to the town again.
But now I go to a kinder fate,
If her love still conquers pride;
Her heart was true when she sobbed “I’ll
wait
For you on the Lachlan Side.”
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


GENTLEMEN ! I ask you
to join me in a “ spot 55
of McCallum’s Perfection.
Distributors for the House of McCallum;
Sole Agents for N.S.W.:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Cu„
SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
Goldstorough, Wort & Co.,
On. Bourke ft William St*.,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Agents for S.A.
Gibbs, Bright & Co
Grenfell Street,
ADELAIDE.
Sole Agents for Queensland:
Goldsbrough, Mcrt & Co.,
Wool Exchange, Eagle St.,
BRISBANE.
Sole Agents for IV.A.
Lionel Samson & Son,
FREMANTLE.
Sole Agents for Tasmania:
MacFarlane Bros.,
117 Macquarie St.,
HOBART.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
10,000 Recipes that will
Save You Money
mm
on the hundreds of things you
use daily in your home, your
factory, office, store or farm.
Price 21/-
POST FREE
HENLEY’S TWENTIETH CENTURY BOOK:
RECIPES, FORMULAS AND PROCESSES.
New Revised and Enlarged Edition.
IN every can of baking powder or paint . you buy—in the hundreds of things you use in
your home or business—is a goodly profit you can now save and make your own
through the priceless knowledge contained in HENLEY’S TWENTIETH CENTURY BOOK
OF RECIPES, FORMULAS AND PROCESSES.
It places at your finger-tips over ten thousand separate recipes, preparations, formulas
and processes containing the latest scientific discoveries.
In simple, non-technical terms it explains how you can make every conceivable thing
in general use, from inks and toothpastes to asphalt cement and battery solutions. It
contains the discoveries of civilisation itself!
Thousands of Unpublished Secret Processes.
Here and there in costly volumes and: scientific works arei some of the rare recipes
included in HENLEY’S amazing book, but no other volume published to-day offers you
such complete authoritative information on so wide a range of subjects as HENLEY’S
TWENTIETH CENTURY BOOK OF RECIPES, FORMULAS and PROCESSES.
Thousands of. secret processes and formulas are here, published for the first time-
many of them gleaned from the private papers of leading French and European scientists
and never before translated into English.
Many a fortune has been built on a good formula. Think what it would mean
to have ten thousand to choose from !
All Yours for a Small Sum.
The housewife will find it valuable in making beautifying creams, baking powders
or insecticides. With it the factory can save money on belt dressings, amalgams or boiler
compounds. The farmer will find its latest scientific information on' fertilisers, cheese
making, tanning and Portland cement indispensable.
Hardly a day passes but what you require authentic, up-to-the-minute information
on these very recipes, formulas and processes. Why not send for a copj' of this remark-
able one volume encyclopaedia to-day ?
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
35 Different Types Available
IMMMi
Australian-made Higher-grade Batteries
for Every Purpose
from 25 employees to 210 employees is a gratifying increase of definite benefit to Australia and Australians.
To-day the number of workers in our factory is six times greater than it was six months ago. To-day Diamond
Batteries are providing employment for Australians, and as a result more money is circulated in Australia.
To-day Diamond Batteries are proving their superiority over imported batteries you can secure a Diamond
Battery 01 * ever y purpose. Diamond Dry Cell Batteries are constructed on the “section-protected” principle.
This means that they stand for longer life, each cell being extra insulated to prevent leakage of current.
Users of Diamond Dry Cell Batteries testify to the remarkably long runs they get before replacement. Hundreds
of thousands of Diamond Dry Cells are purchased annually by Government Departments, and when subjected to
severest tests it has been proved that they provide a larger watt-hour output than specifications demanded.
Specify Diamond Radio Batteries for Your Set
They are **B Weeks Fresher” than imported—ensure clearer reception and better volume, and are
Offered at Better Values,
PRICES:
“A” BATTERIES.
No. Type. Size. Volts. Price,
Buzzer 2| diam. x 61 high 1.5 3/3
“B” BATTERIES.
1. Super Capacity 101 x6| x 3 60 25/-
2. Super Capacity 8 x6l x 3 45 20/-
Light Duty 8i x3lx 3J 60 16/-
Light Duty 81 x2|x 3£ 45 12/-
“C” BATTERIES.
1. Super 3| x 11 x 3 4.5 3/-
TORCH UNITS.
Single Cell 11 diam. x2l high 1.5 Bd.
Complete Catalogue gladly forviarded.
If you have difficulty in procuring from your Dealer, write direct to
DIRECT FACTORY DISTRIBUTORS:
The Hendon Electrical Company,
Ground Floor, “Whitehall.” Bank Place, Melbourne, Cl.
Phone: F 4952.
mm
mm
mm
mm
BefZ'entative: Reg. Rose & Company,
Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney.
ffeTeStive: J. B. Chandler & Co.,
45 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
TV
v • Vt??
m
pIAAt
OND
ShA
M/WWVWW\^WW\MM
;[,
v?\ t \ * «. (\ t W\#W >/>'>',
ijsjiji:;;
UNM'
\*\*'*t
rv7T7T7T7TT
rS,WWW\/W\*WWN/WwWWX#''''W
' WW\
l\^/\<S#X/W\/S/WVA^/WW\/SAn<
iwWWWV^W\^VWWM'JJ''OjJJ|J
jS?»*»#\Sv*VtXjWW»*WwWWW>#W>»
P*Ate
w'Aflt
/ V <
/ww\<
#wx#*#**
#ww^\/vwyyy
#WwV\A/wv\/w\/WW'iWva/wy
#xA#ywysO/\/\/\/y» /£*“# *' <a *x ; x <
fi\t\4\l'f^
#NAAO
fi\4\4\
S»AMO
/X>/<
<N/'/v
*>/Vs
l/>^
/\/N
/N/>/>/V/V/N/>
><s
}/v#X
«*«««
>/\/\/
<>o
XV
'BSBMMM
>O/\ \/'/\/!/'^/'/vv/i/
/VXXJ'XJ'X <■>
w
MST
iiiii


mm
30 COPIES IN 3 MINUTES.
Clean, Certain, Simple.
DIBBS—THE DUPLICATOR.
Pen, Type, Letters, Music.
Write for particulars.
187-
Postage, 2/-. Other States, 4/-
H. DIBBS & CO.,
99 Station House, Sydney,
For your
AMERICAN
TOUR
r®
I
• . make your
starting place
in San Fran-
cisco The Clift
Hotel —cen-
trally located,
with all the
modernities; each room with its
own bath; radio
every room; beautiful restau-
rants and spacious lobby; comfort
in every detail without extrava-
gance.
Rates: per room, upward from $3
(about 125.) for one person, or from $5
(about 1 guinea) for 2 persons. Rooms
en suite if desired.
Full refund on wire-
less request for ac-
commodations from
your steamer.
! xj
r/'iS
£$
pi!:;
lilss
THE
CLIFT
HOTEL
SAN FRANCISCO
CALIFORNIA! U S A.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
THE FINAL VOLUME.
The History of the British Army
By the Hon Sir JOHN FORTES-
CUE, K.C.V.0., LL.D., D.Litt.
Vol. XIII, 1852-1870. With
separate vol. of maps. 40s. net.
THE COMPLETE WORK IN SETS.
In 1 3 vols. Complete with maps
and plans. £1 6 1 6s. net.
Heredity in Live Stock
By CHRISTIAN WRIEDT. With
a foreword by PROFESSOR
R. C. PUNNETT. Illustrated.
7s. 6d. net.
A book specially designed for the use of
breeders who desire to take advantage of the
new scientific knowledge which has grown up
as a result of definite experiment and practical
experience, especially during the past quarter
of a century.
NEW NOVELS.
Rogue Herries
By HUGH WALPOLE. 736
pages.
[Dominions Edition.
Marjorie Bowen in the “Morning Post”:
“Strange, interesting, full of beauty, tenderness
and romantic episodes.... A fine n0ve1....
Almost every page bears evidences of imagina-
tion, power and skill.”
The “Daily Mail”: “A profound study of
human character Herries is a wonderful
creation.”
Turn Back the Leaves
By E. M. DELAFIELD.
[Empire Library.
“Times Literary Supplement”: “She has
never drawn such firm, impartial and
admirable portraits as in her latest novel.”
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
As naturally. . .
As instinctively
mm
as a duckling
takes to water,
so does
the sportsman
turn to
Mick Simmons
Featuring
Outstanding
Lines
that each plays a
dominant part in its
own respective field!
The Matchless
“DALLY M”
RUGBY BALL
V
V
&
y H
Price
22/6
Complete
The Ball with the International and
Interstate reputation.
Every “Dally M” is fully
guaranteed.
Should any ball lose its shape through
fair use the case will be instantly replaced
free of charge.
“ MASTERSTROKE’*
The Racket Beautifull
PRICE,
77/6
ft
Embodies the very
newest principles of
scientific racket con-
struction. Guaranteed
to give the maximum of
strength and service it is
possible to get out of a
racket. Strung with highest-
grade English gut.
WILLCORRY
GOLF CLUBS
Goljers everywhere have
hailed them as supreme
examples of the modern
Clubmaher’s art!
“CORRY”
matched
WOODS DE
LUXE
25/-
“CORRY”
STAINLESS
GRADED
IRONS DE
LUXE
25/-
mm
Free Lessons by Will Carry
to every purchaser of a Set
of Clubs!
To put the Golfing tyro on the right track,
Will Corry will give, free of any charge
whatever, demonstration lessons on all
angles of the game.
Expert Tutorship—Moderate Fees.
All Letters to Box 188, P. 0•„
Haymarket, Sydney.
Mick Simmons
HEADQUARTERS:
720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
“The Leaders in Outdoor Sport and Home
Entertainment.”
Mercy.
W. CHARNLEY’S
POWERFUL STORY OF ,1 DEVOTED DAUGHTER
WHOSE MOTHER IS DYING OF INOPERABLE CANCER. ARE THERE
ANY CIRCUMSTANCES WHICH JUSTIFY THE TAKING OF HUMAN
LIFE? HAS A DOCTOR, THE MORAL RIGHT TO CONDONE SUCH AN
ACTION? THESE PROBLEMS -ARE POIGNANTLY DEALT WITH.
ELIZABETH laid down the newspaper
and sat for a while gazing intently
at the opposite wall—at the bare
plaster, slightly yellowed with age, and the
cheap pictures. But though she looked at
the wall she did not see it; she looked
through it into the next room. In this
room she saw a bed on which an oldish
woman, thin-faced and wrinkled, tossed and
moaned as her weary body strove to find
some position of ease. By the side of the
bed a young girl sat, watching sympatheti-
cally because the woman was her mother,
but in hopeless apathy because she knew
she could do nothing to ease her mother’s
pain. Only the doctor could do that when
he came with his morphia needle. Cancer
is a terrible thing.
Suddenly the wall became opaque again ;
the bed with the sick woman and her young-
nurse snapped out, and Elizabeth found
herself gazing at the yellowed plaster.
With a little sigh she relaxed and took
up the paper once more. Almost against
her will her eyes came back to a paragraph
which she had read a dozen times already.
It told of the trial in France of a young-
man who had killed his mother. She had
begged him to do it and so relieve her of
the agony she suffered. Now lie was being-
tried for it, and the Courts and people in
France seemed hardly to know what to do
with him. Some were inclined to applaud
him for the intense love which he had
shown for his mother; others, harder men
probably, held that the taking of a life,
even a life that was nearly at its end, was
a violation of the Divine decree, and must
be punished lest it become common and be
made the cloak for wicked murder. The
sub-leader of the paper took that view.
Elizabeth had read this just as she read
everything about this young man with whom
she sympathised so much. There was no
hysteria about her sympathy. No ; she was
a very serious woman. Some people even
called her hard. But for this young man
on the other side of the world, in France,
she felt —how could she express it? “Pity’s
kin.” Yes, that was it. Pity’s kin. Then
her eye fell upon the clock—the merciless
clock. Seven o’clock. It was her turn again.
Her young sister rose on tiptoe as Eliza-
beth entered the sickroom. “I think she’s
asleep,” she whispered as she moved noise-
lessly to the door.
Elizabeth touched the girl lightly on the
head as she went, a small loving caress.
Poor, dear kid, how she had responded to
this, the great tragedy of both their lives!
So different too ; flighty and fond of dancing
she had seemed, not serious like herself;
but the breed was there just the same, only
waiting for the crisis to bring it out.
Their mother, too, had the same breed.
She opened her eyes when her elder daughter
stood over her.
“I thought you were asleep,” Elizabeth
said gently. “Essie thought so, too.”
The mother smiled wanly; just a little
smile forced up, as it were, between gasps
of pain.
“I tried to make her think so,” she
whispered. “It hurts her so much when —
when I can hardly bear it.”
Elizabeth arranged the pillows, straight-
ened the crumpled sheet, and sat down to
wait. The doctor would arrive presently
with his magic needle of Heaven-sent sleep.
He was very good, their doctor. Twice a
day he came. Yet even that was hardly
enough. There were long intervals when
the effects of the morphia grew weak and
the invalid throbbed with waves of devas-
tating pain. These were terrible times,
hideous nightmares, for it was generally at
night when the effects of the morphia wore
thin.
Elizabeth had asked the doctor to leave
her the needle and show her how to use it.
But he had shaken his head. Only a quali-
fied nurse was allowed to do that. And,
anyhow, morphia had its limitations. A
too excessive use robbed it of its power, with
the result that increased doses were required
until at length the patient might even
become deprived of its pain-deadening solace.
“And your mother may live a long time
yet; cancer is sometimes very slow.”
Was it sinful to wish that one’s- own
mother were dead? It seemed sinful even
to think of it. Yet her mother often
wished she might (lie; longed to be rid of
her dreadful body, with its frightful capacity
for pain. How she had prayed, their
mother, at night when the morphia ran thin
and the long hours of wakeful grisly night-
mare ticked slowly past; prayed for reliev-
ing death! Elizabeth had listened. She
slept in her mother’s room, on a narrow
single-bed with a night-light burning
shadowy beside her. She had listened
often, and then risen to straighten sheets
and give those kindly, loving touches which
a little, though ever so little, lessen pain.
A car stopped at the door, and without
much ceremony the doctor came briskly in.
He was quite business-like. This adminis-
tering of morphia was a routine affair. In-
side a few minutes he had gone again. Eliza-
beth drank the tea which Essie brought her,
and went to bed. She needed sleep. The
effects of the morphia would last until about
midnight. After that
A trained nurse was needed! Why weren’t
they rich enough to pay for one? Why?
But it was no use brooding. Life was. what
it just happened to be, and one had to make
the best of it. So she lay down to rest,
hoping to accumulate a little stock of sleep,
enough, at any rate, to carry her from mid-
night until morning.
She had cultivated a curious power of
sleep. during the. long weeks of vigil which
had been hers since her mother had entered
on this last phase of her illness. Sometimes
as she lay on her bed and listened to the
mumblings and moanings of the half-deli-
rious sufferer she scarcely knew whether she
slept or not. Hours would drift by dimly
whilst all the time she would be conscious
of the night light and of her mother on the
bed. If anyone, entered the room and spoke
she answered instantly, all her faculties
awake: she heard if her mother called even
in a whisper. Yet in a way she slept in
little snatches just enough to enable her
to keep going. But it was not the drain
on her strength through lack of sleep she
minded. It was the knowledge that with
all her patient endurance and nursing she
could do nothing to bring relief to her
mother. Only death could do that: reliev-
ing death that was so long in coming. Why
was the road to death made so agonising
for some while for others it was just a
smooth pathway ending in eternal sleep ?
There was no justice in it —her gentle
mother, who had been kind to every living
creature around her all her life, to have
to suffer so much—to have to pray for the
death which was withheld from her! And
why was death withheld? An animal would
have been mercifully put out of its pain, yet
a human being must live on and on until
death chose to come; must drink the cup
of agony to the last bitter drop.
There was no remedy, none, unless —one
was as courageous as that young man in
France. He had defied the law: he had
risked his own life for his mother’s sake.
“Greater love hath no man.” Elizabeth
opened her eyes and looked across at her
mother. She was still comatose; the drug
was still acting.
Then she closed her eyes again resolutely
—this chain of thought which kept weaving
and weaving through her brain—-she must
put it aside ; she must snatch a little sleep
while sleep was offering, or she would find
herself unfit for the ordeal to come. But
the chain of thought would not be pushed
aside; again and again it rose and passed
through her mind until she grew weary of
its never-ending sequence.
Suddenly she awoke with a start. Her
mother was moaning and tossing. A glance
at the clock: it was past midnight. The
needle had finished its work: itspporerw r er for
the night was ended. Now began the long
vigil till morning. Had she been a trained
nurse she could have given the needle again
and so have secured temporary surcease from
agony. But she had brooded over that point
enough.
However, she was not without some means ;
she still had the pain-killing drug in another
form. Raising her mother’s head she gently
administered the draught, then sajt down to
watch. After a while the moaning eased
a little. An .hour passed, then it rose again.
Another dose of the drug and another little
period—not of freedom from pain but merely
with the razor-edge of agony dulled slightly.
Sleepless now, not even wishing for sleep,
Elizabeth sat watching her mother —and the
clock. She dared not lie down for fear that
sleep might trap her: she had to watch ; it
was impossible for her to lie down and find
oblivion while this one whom she loved
best of all on earth writhed in torment.
Slowly the hours dragged by—infinitely
slowly. Then at last traffic began to stir in
the .street, and a faint light crept in at the
window, making the night-light burn yellow
and dim.
Elizabeth thanked God for the dawn. The
long, black hours had been hours of suffer-
ing, but now with the coming of day pain
would be driven back a little, as though the
sun in his rising poured a healing balm upon
the earth. The doctor came early—as soon
as he had breakfasted—and from his magic
bag he produced easement and a little sleep
for the worn sufferer.
Then he turned to Elizabeth. “You’re
getting tired and run down,” he remarked.
“Gome around to my surgery during my
hours and I’ll make you up a tonic.”
Elizabeth knew 7 the . surgery well. She
had attended there often with her mother
as a child. Her mother in those days had
been quite young and strong and beautiful;
at least, she had seemed beautiful to Eliza-
beth’s childish eyes—always beautiful and
gentle. The doctor, too, had seemed almost
young to Elizabeth; he had grown old whilst
she was growing to womanhood.
So she knew the surgery well—its row's
of big heavy books in a glass case; its
strange-looking instruments; its other
case, full of glass-stoppered bottles and jars
from which, if you were a lodge patient,
the doctor might on the spur of the moment
make you up a bottle of medicine himself.
She knew, too, the other glass case in the
corner, kept locked usually, where every
bottle was colored and labelled “Poison.”
Her father had once told her that their
doctor was an expert in toxicology and that
he sometimes gave evidence in law courts
on such matters.
So it was a familiar room to Elizabeth as
she sat discussing her mother’s illness.
“There is no hope,” the doctor told her
gravely as be had told her several times
before. “Death only can bring her relief,
and sometimes,” he added a shade regret-
fully, “death is long in coming with a
cancer patient.” Death! the best gift that
could be given her mother. Involuntarily her
eyes wandered to the glass case which held
its rows of poisons. Death!
“However,” continued the doctor, “I will
make you up a tonic; we musn’t have you
knocking yourself out with overwork.” And
taking a measuring-glass he went to his
big medicine-case, and began concocting the
draught.
Elizabeth watched him interestedly. Sud-
denly the door-bell rang imperiously. A
quick flutter of feet sounded as the house-
maid sped along the hall.
The girl appeared in the surgery with
startled eyes. “There’s been a motor smash,
sir; lie’s waiting outside.”
The doctor hurried out and Elizabeth found
herself alone. Opportunity! On the doctor’s
desk lay a bunch, of keys. Snatching them up
(Continued on next page.)


m
Made of a special steel with extra
keen edges that last and
give a cleaner, far,
far better shave.
From Stores,
Chemists and,
Hairdressers.
Australian Agent:
H. E. UTTLEY, Margaret House,
282 George Street, Sydney.
Kirby Beard and
Co., Ltd., Raven-
hurst Worbs, Bir-
mingham, Eng.
Also London, Red-
ditch and Paris.
.
KIRBY BEARD & C? Utd
t
42
■
’ i
■
Mellow and Cool
Here’s a cigar especially
adapted to the Australian
taste. It’s fragrant and
rich.... absolutely depend-
able in quality. Obtain-
able at hotels and tobacco-
nists’, or at address below.
ORDER BY POST.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney
FPL 8
Garden Work Lightened
l"A
1C
v T i\
LI
?V4
>s&.
and Speeded up.
If you have a garden you should
have a barrow. It will save you
a surprising amount of work in
shifting warden refuse, manure,
soil, sand, etc.
If you really
want to
know how
handy a
barrow is,
ask the man
who owns
one.
We have a limited number of a new type of all-metal Barrows They
have strong rigid bodies of useful capacity well braced frames,
and are fitted with sturdy wheels. The wheel-guard is extended to
form a handy tipping nose. The great feature of these Barr
is their lightness and their balance—the weight rests on the
wheels, NOT ON YOUR HANDS. Until our present limited stock
is exhausted we are selling at the remarkable price of 29/6 each.
Owing to the high quality and tempting price we anticipate a
„pid clearance. YouRS TO _ DA y >
ersons
limited
582-592 Collins Street, Melbourne.
51-65 Bathurst Street)
447 George Street j
Sydney.
116-130 Way mouth Street, Adelaide.
she stepped around the end of the desk to the
poison cabinet. Trembling with fear she
turned a key; and the cabinet door swung
open. For a half-second the rows of poisons
dazzled her; then from the bottom row leaped
a label, “Cyanide.” Her hand closed on
it; here was surcease for all her mother’s
pain.
She was sitting stiffly in her chair
when the doctor with a couple of helpers
brought the motor’s victim in. The doctor
gave her the tonic, and .signalled her to go.
Her mother looked strange to Elizabeth’s
eyes when she returned to the sick room.
No longer did she feel pity for her, but only
infinite love. In her handbag she - had the
golden key; the greatest gift, if she but
possessed the courage to give it. Very ten-
derly she smoothed the pillows and stroked
the sufferer’s hair.
“Do you feel any better now, Mother?”
she asked gently.
“A little,” her mother whispered; she
always said that, even though she prayed for
death.
On his last round the doctor hurried in
to administer the needle.
“That motor accident delayed me,” he
said. “It was a bad one. The man hasn’t
recovered consciousness yet. He may die.”
The word “die” echoed through Elizabeth’s
brain; here was one dying unconsciously
without pain while her mother”
After the doctor had gone, Elizabeth lay
down in the endeavor to accumulate her
usual little stock of sleep. But there was no
sleep for her eyes; she felt feverish ; strangely
exalted. With the recurrence of the thought
that now she had the power of death her
heart would almost stop; then it would race
until almost a sickness came over her.
Would she dare? She got up, and, taking
the stolen bottle from her bag, examined fit.
It was about half-full of stuff not unlike
candied sugar. The potential death in it
fascinated her. She did not bother to lie
down again; sleep was impossible; she felt
so strangely buoyant and excited.
Midnight came and her long vigil began.
But not yet did she dare to end it. She
had meditated and made up her mind on
the matter, but now, after all, she began to
bargain with time. She was afraid. She
fell back on her old refuge; the drug. The
dose soothed her mother a little and she
fell to thinking again—the old endless chain
of thoughts. <
At two o’clock she administered the drug
again. But it was losing its efficacy; her
mother moaned ceaselessly. Her agony
Wrung Elizabeth's soul.
At three o’clock sudden resolution came to
her —her mother was wide-eyed and conscious,
seared with flames of pain.
She knew the right dose —a piece about
as big as a pea.
Dissolving the poison in a glass of water
she held it to her mother’s lips. “Drink
this, Mother, it will cure all your pain,”
she whispered.
Her mother took it without demur. Then
very tenderly Elizabeth laid her back.
For a while the sick woman continued to
toss and moan; then a feebleness seemed to
seize her and of a sudden her moanings
turned to quiet. Elizabeth bent over her:
she was dead.
So quick had come release after months
of weary suffering. Tenderly Elizabeth laid
her out straight; then sat dry-eyed, wait-
ing for the dawn. She had done her duty
and now was prepared for whatever might
happen. When the doctor came she would
confess. Concealment was useless; she felt
he would surely miss the bottle, of poison
and would know who had taken it; besides,
the cause of death would be obvious to him,
a toxicologist.
The doctor listened gravely to her halting
confession.
“Where is the bottle?” he demanded at
last. She gave it to him.
He took it and held it up to the light.
Then he put it down. “You have affected me
very much by your statement, Elizabeth.
Now you must leave the room until I call
you. I must examine your mother to ascer-
tain the actual cause of her death.”
A minute later he called her in. Trem-
blingly Elizabeth obeyed. Her high courage
was fading—she saw ahead of her police-
men, courts of law, prison. But she did not
regret. Her mother’s face, calm now in
death, reassured her.
The doctor greeted her with a little smile.
“Your mother died a natural death. You
did not poison her, much as you wished to
end her sufferings.”
Elizabeth was stunned. Then relief began
to flow over her.
“But the bottle?” she gasped.
The doctor handed it to her.
“You know very little about poisons,
Elizabeth. Read the label again. You didn’t
notice the “F” between the “Potass.” and
the “Cyan.” . That “F” makes all the dif-
ference in the world; it stands for “Ferro,”
for iron. Potassium Ferro Cyanide, the
one non-poisonous compound of the cyanide
series.”
Elizabeth stared at the label, but she
couldn’t remember if the “F” had been there
'or not —she had felt sure that it was poison
and here now w r as her mother, dead.
“But why did my mother die so quickly?”
The doctor shook his head. “Death is a
mystery no man can solve, nor be sure of
its coming. God in his mercy called her.”
Elizabeth sobbed with relief, “And I
thought that I had poisoned her. I meant
to, I felt that I would do anything to end
her pain.”
The doctor nodded.
“I understand exactly, but you took the
wrong bottle—the real potassium-cyanide
was on the top shelf. So now don’t fret
any more.”, ,
Jfc * #
When the doctor returned to his surgery
he sat for awhile contemplating his cabinet
of poisons. -
“I must have it shifted,” he told himself.
“It’s much too handy there.”
Then, taking the retrieved bottle from his
bag, he carefully scratched the “F” from
off the label.
“What a, girl!” he mused. “A heroine!”
With the bottle restored to its place the
cabinet was full again, full with bottles
labelled with all sorts of names; but not-
withstanding what the doctor had told Eliza-
beth, there was only one bottle there labelled
“Potass. Cyan.,” and that was the one he
had replaced.
The Homecoming.
The leaves are strangely stirred to-night,
Something there is they strive to say.
I never saw the moon so white,
So spectral and so far away.
There is none other here but I
To hearken night’s mute melody,
The resonance of earth and sky,
The rhythm of eternity.
A hush that holds a hidden tone,
Not heard, nor seen, but strangely sensed,
An aura, alien, unknown,
That stillness has no guard against.
Shadows that whisper—“ Leave ajar
Your door that we may enter there,
The unbodied dead whose phantoms are
So cold, so cold in this bright air!
“We are the thoughts, the hopes, the dreams
Of those whom such as you held dear’’/. ; .
(How white the moonlight, sworded gleams!
The shrouding wind how icy-sere !’
Poor little ghosts! Lost dreams, betrayed
By mocking time and Death’s despair;
The door is wide,,the .embers fade,
Seek you life’s warmth and welcome there!
I fear you not who feel your kiss
Light as the moon-sea’s silver foam;
What wonder, such a night as this,
The little, lonely, ghosts come home!
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.
Medallion.
Like something out of a fairy tale, painted
into a book,
No feather of the bright bird stirred and
never a green leaf shook;
It might have been carved out of wood, and
so I came to see
How fairies on the mountain-side dress their
own Christmas tree !
An orange-tree with glossy leaves and a
parrot lacquer-red
Against the' grey of the timberlands ■with a
white cloud overhead;
Ever again it buds and blooms in the fields
where dreams are sown,
Though the orange-tree is miles away and
the painted parrot flown.
There are orchids hung on the mountain
gums: there are violets in the grass,
And tree-ferns down by the waterfall where
the dancing shadows pass;
There are gullies hushed in maiden hair and
tufted palms that croon
In a wind that launches a petal fleet on the
mirroring lagoon.
Yet I only see, through a magic pane in
the city’s massive walls,
Not the fringe of the orchid’s gold, nor the
silver of the falls,
But the misty blue of the timberlands and
a white cloud overhead,
An orange-tree all glossy green and a parrot
lacquer-red.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORRESI.
The Pool.
How stagnant is it there, the weedy pool
In the dark wood! No birds above i 1
sing;
No Heaven-born airs about it come and go :
But still it lies, a disenchanted thing,
As haply it has lain for years and years.
The thirsty beasts avoid it, it would seem
As if its very water were the tears
Creatures have dying shed beyond the
gleam
Of any star long since in the dumb air.
So let it lie, as one forgotten there,
By raincloud or by beam of sun for aye;
But Omy heart! Let us betake us where
Time passes as a dream beyond decay!
R. CRAWFOED.
Old Suva.
Old Suva’s fa*r away to-night;
The stars are hard to find
That lead along the sea-road bright
Where we, could; follow blind.
The night is very soft and still
And in-the hush we hear,
As in deep dreams, the reef-surf’s thrill
Tha<t brings old Suva near.
So make the course nor’-east by north
“And steady as she goes!”
With, half a mile' of swimming froth
Behind the spinning throws.
Old Suva’s light, seen low and dim,
Will make each, youiigster smile
Because he knows who waits for him
And counts his love worth while.
Our smoke has made the red stars pale,
And morning light will bring
A wind that blows to ha*lf a gale
To set the seas.a-swing
Along the road to Suva’s hills,
Deep-hidden in the- sea.
Till, ridge on ridge, the picture fills—
Green hills of fair Fiji!
The sea-roads lead from many a port
(Deep down, the engines roar)
And we can make the longest short
When white the bow-waves pour,
And, throbbing with the ’prisoned speed,
The swift propellers churn
And leave a* wake to lie and bleed
Where red the sunsets burn.
Green islands in the ocean’s blue,
White sands and vivid skies!
Who needs a chart and compass true
To know where Suva lies,
When just the radiance of the bay
And shore-liglits twinkling round
Have beckoned us by night and day
To where true love is found?
Old Suva’s fa*r away to-night,
The stars are hard to find,
But soft as stars and warm and bright
Are eyes we left behind,
When in the glow of morning’s dream
We sailed by lonely ways
Ob ! trim the fires and flog the steam
Till Suva’s signals blaze!
N.K.W.
WILL LAWSON.


mm
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear— —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
\\Z. Office—o 3-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N.
Victorian Office—-“ Chancery House/' 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A,
PROVED \
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL
BRISBANE:
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certajnly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL* LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE”
Established 185 k.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
“THE AGE” publishes over one million adver-
tisements annually. A newspaper advertising
record for the British Empire.
This achievement is definite proof that _ “The
Age” has moved forward with irresistible
power to its objective —public confidence.
When formulating your advertising - pro-
gramme, link up with “The Age.”
Your confidence will not be misplaced.
AUDITED NET DAILY SALES,
123,533.
Advertising rates on application to the
principal Service Agencies in all States, or
\
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
Clk Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of "THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price ljd.
advertiser newspapers ltd.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G, N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
3f>s Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
THE
Illustrated Tasmanian
Mail
Published Wednesday. Price 6d.
A Bright, Interesting Weekly, con-
ducted on the most up-to-date lines,
and illustrated throughout.
It is an established favorite with
townsfolk and country folk also in
all parts of Tasmania, and its
effectiveness as an advertising
medium is receiving ever-increasing
recognition.
It is undoubtedly
TASMANIA’S LEADING
WEEKLY
A Rate Book, giving full particulars
of the Advertising Rates charged, will
he forwarded on application.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS.
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable Si Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
P. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square. ’
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
..
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN"
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Wmm keep theft
(food -Cockd
fyfakinq
fmd
y<*US
»l«!
re
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
O'
<?
the Newspaper of Northern
T asmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Tgfd
. R. ROLPH & SONS,
Ptv., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
LAUNCESTON.
Evening Express” obtainable from
MR. M. S. ALLAN,
426 National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
MR. W. G. DOUGAN,
726 Herald Building',
66 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper.
»
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEW BP A HER CO., LTD.,
Box 252 188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6,3, months from
for which I enclose £ 1
NAME ....
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia —l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/~
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
XJfjJ
0°
yl'° 0 v
6 V
• ’ °*
$• W”


OW A STRAIGHT
/
.. _ b
■
m.
-sh- •
’■'X ' . < ■-‘‘yV
-
>« a'W'V.--;' ’ • ' >'•';■■-■:
’ v- . V* '
OteSoto
W.
tr
s*-
•TO
PRICED SENSATIONALLY LOW
The new Chrysler-built De Soto Straight
Eight marks the fulfilment of an ideal
to which Chrysler Motors engineers have
given three years of unabating effort.
They have created a car capable of
carrying into the field of straight eights
every Chrysler tradition of quality,
beauty, comfort, safety, economy and
performance—at a price well below that
at which any straight eight worthy of
comparison has ever been offered. The
public will be quick to recognise in the
new De Soto Straight Eight a motor car
easily capable of attaining as sensational
a success as that registered by its com-
panion car—the now f amous De Soto Six,
largest selling first-year car in history.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
■
New South Wales Grenville Motors , Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Automobiles Proprietary, Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Stradbroke Motors, Ltd., Brisbane
South Australia Dominion Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Western Australia Wentworth Motors, Ltd., Perth
New Zealand .... New Zealand Motors, Ltd., Wellington
Metro Motors Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
