

mi
v
m
e
oi
,
vz
OLD SCOTCH <3l
. WHISKY
LABEL
GOLD
'
»■!&
■
mi
m
01
•••:•
m
m
IJ
ill
i
i
Ml
5
MMtoiSlui* *'
m
IV
(p
cpW }
W
&
(A
?/////
f
3*
THIS new Screw Cap is so simple! Just a
twist and it’s off just a twist and it’s
on, with all chance of leakage or “corking”
eliminated. And inside the bottle is a whisky
of smooth, even quality that cannot be bettered
by any in the world.
The
NEW SCREW CAP
is
SIMPLE, SAFE, SECURE.
The Perfectly Hermetic Seal
Applied
Under
acuum.
, , %s
QUALITY'SSHIS'KS BOTTLED
UNDER. THE SUPERVISION
CUSTOMS
sdf
The Bulletin
sjuu>we —Wfud
Vol. 51.—N0. 2620.
Wednesday, April 30, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


YV/RITE for the Library Catalogue and
terms, and lists on all subjects, which
will be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Story Writing
UH y at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet , explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name * • • • •
My Address
S.B. 315
HOLBROOKS
SAUCE
WORCESTERSHIRE
THE YACHTING
PARTY
Host Holbrook Says:
“Yo ho and a bottle
of sauce! Aye, the sea
air makes the appetite
keen and my Wor-
cestershire Sauce adds
a zest to the snack
partaken on board.
Always keep a bottle
in the locker.”
: j!
'-K
$
H' >SsX'XVv s^
mmm
mm
***?&' \JW
1 -4
U'
$ m
mm
mm
S SS^R
X
Vva
m
s-y- •••*:.•
4*Z *
• •v:;: : ;^a:-v-:-:::-v:
.• •
a Cold?
If Cream of Yeast doesn’t stop your cold
quicker than anything else you’ve ever tried
—the package will cost you nothing! Cream
of Yeast drives out colds by (1) Attacking
the Cause, and (2) By Increasing the sys-
tem’s Power of Resistance. Directly you
take Cream of Yeast you begin to feel better,
and you go right along feeling better till the
cold stops, and with it the aches, pains and
feeling of lethargy stop too! You can try it
at our risk, for we know what Cream of
Yeast will do. Just get a 1/lld. package from
the nearest chemist, take as directed, and
if not satisfied with the results you can
have your money back? Be sure you get
genuine Cream of Yeast—the world’s best
tonic and re-invigorator. Largest Sales.
Best and Quickest Results. No Harmful
Drugs. This way ivill stop your cold!
j
Daily
Mishaps
Make ZAM-BUK A Daily Heed!
WHETHER used for a
bruised knee, cut, burn,
poisoned finger, grazed fore-
head, or a sprained ankle, or
open wound, Zam-Buk soon
takes away the hurt, soreness
and danger and ensures quick
healthy healing.
Ever-ready and thoroughly
antiseptic Zam-Buk is the
best, safest, and most efficient
of home first-aids.
Always keep handy a box of
this grand healer. Zam-Buk
Medicinal Soap too is excellent.
amßuk
Ointment 1/6 or 3/6. Medicinal Soap 1/-
famous
TOUR
AN FRANCISCO
on your
AMERICAN
• ® • • and plan to stay
at the delightful Clift Hotel
while doing it. The Clift offers
features especially pleasing to
visitors from Australia and New
Zealand. .... 540 luxuriously
comfortable rooms, each with
its own bath and individual radio
reception; restaurant which is in-
ternational in menu as in fame;
perfect but unobtrusive service;
central location,near shops,thea-
tres, points of
scenic interest.
Rates: single, from
$3 (about 1 as.) up-
ward; double, from
$5 (about 1 guinea)
upward.
Full refund on wire-
less request for ac-
commodations from
your steamer.
r r f '»!
r r fr!"
[rrlsfe
ii] , n 1
n’l’jniii
' [ iri.
frrr
THE
CLIFT hotel
SAN FRANCISCO
CALIFORNIA, U.S. A.
% /
fy
M
ii
Monarch
Cigars
■' * AV- v. ■■
ve'i <1
I Distributors
I
THE PATRIOT
|DjREajj4EDjUM^WOMEN|
AND ALL
READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
HU
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT! LUNGS!
DSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
AN IDEAL REMEDY
\SM
ON
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza.
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says:—“Proved to be effective bac*
terieidally as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, EUMENTHOL JUJUBE',!3
do not interfere with the Digestion; on the contrary,
they have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptu
properties prevent abnormal fermentation of the fool
when taken after meals.
The Red Page
The Library and Corruption (1)
Magically, the Mardrus translation of
the Arabian Nights has vanished from
Sydney bookshops. A week previously
editions of it were displayed in every
shop. A few months earlier it was freely
advertised for sale in the Sunday news-
papers. Venus and Adonis, too, have gone
from the shelves. Daphnis and Chloe and
Rabelais hang, perilously on by the skin
of their tenth.
Why? Because our censors of public
morality, the police, were said to have
borne down on another shop and confis-
cated a Mardrus there. Whether or not
they thus made supreme fools of them-
selves doesn’t matter. The joke is that
to-day Mardrus is not visible in any book-
ship in Sj'dney simply because of a fear
of what is a bit more than possible.
Even such a firm as Angus and Robertson
—a credit and an honor to Australia—dare,
not exhibit Mardrus for sale lest the firm
be dragged along before some magistrate
who possibly holds the nurserj' and litera-
ture as synonymous, to be fined and put
on a level with the patently objectionable
shop whose trade in tripe started this
ridiculous heresy hunt. I wish the firm of
Angus and Robertson no harm, but every
instinct of loyalty in me makes me long
.for these censors to hale that firm before
the courts, charged with the heinous offence
of displaying for sale one or other of these
books that are on Sydney’s elusive Index.
A shop like the little one in Castlereagh-
street, the second one raided, is sitting
game. Its profits, especially just now, are
too meagre to make it worth its while to
fight a test case. Better pay the fine, lose
the books which, because somebody or
other has sufficient disrespect for his
daughter to believe they would pervert her,
are taboo, and grin and bear the injustice
of it.
It is an injustice. The bookseller is in
the position of anybody who works for two
bosses. The one authority can let these
books into the country; the other Can hale
the seller before a court apparently with
a rosy chance of winning -a magisterial con-
viction. That is why I should like to see
Angus and Robertson prosecuted. I cannot
imagine such an institution taking this sort
of thing lying down. It would, I fondly
believe, carry the matter far enough to reach
trial by experts, or at least get it thrashed
out in an intelligent atmosphere. Nobody
in his senses could accuse this firm of any
intention or desire to corrupt his daughters.
Therefore the going would be good.
If such of the outside world as gets to
hear of this magical vanishing of the
Arabian Nights doesn’t laugh its head off
at Sydney, then the world hasn’t the sense
of humor I suspect it of having. And what
will it be laughing at? These prowling
censors? These bookshops for their fear?
The incredible ignorance that bans classical
writings?, The inconsistency that permits
the Bible and “Measure for Measure” to
have free circulation? Not at all. The
laugh will be at the expense of the stagna-
tion that permits it.
Every age has had book censoring.
Sydney’s brand of it springs from the sort
of intelligence which believes Mardrus or
Rabelais or “Ulysses” might influence young
ladies into car rides from which they would
not walk home. It is obviously insulting,
but whether young ladies should be thus
insulted is of no great importance. The
thing becomes important because it denies
literature to people who are not young
ladies. And it becomes palpably ridiculous
because not one young lady in a hundred
would read Mardrus if you gave him to
her, not one in a thousand would read
Rabelais, and not one in ten thousand
could read “Ulysses.”
There 'are engaging modern instances of
the ludicrous figure the Great Literary
Uplift cuts in action. Arnold Bennett
instances that in all Glasgow libraries in
1910 “Anna Karenina,” “Resurrection,”
“Tess,” “Jude the Obscure,” “Tono Bungay”
and the works of Richardson, Fielding and
Smollett were Banned. So far none of these
has been touched in Sydney, but that
Maoriland attempt to escape local inhibi-
tions, “The Butcher’s Shop,” was recently
cleaned out of all the bookshops, after
having been sold in them for years. It was,
in common with so much of the stuff that
our earnest moralists set their teeth against,
written by a woman.
Bennett also instances that Canon Lam-
bert, of Hull, referring to Wells’s “Ann
Veronica,” said: “I would just as soon send
a daughter of mine to a house infected with
diphtheria, or typhoid fever as put that, book
into her hands.” What Bennett did not
ask, but might well have asked, was
whether or not the good canon himself
was perverted or demoralised by “Ann.” It
is not such an idle question as on first sight
it might seem. If we cannot have litera-
ture lest our reading of it will involve
the corruption of somebody’s nebulous
daughter, we can at least have the decent
feelings of humanity. We should be able,
whatever our opinion of their mentality,
to feel sorry for the poor creatures who
have to look after our morals for us. What
protection have they, other than a possible
lack of brains, against the insidious influ-
ence upon themselves of the wicked books
that Duty commands them to read?
Doctors and nurses can protect themselves
against the germs that attack the body, but
the wetnurses of our literary knowledge
cannot inject a tubeful of anti-Rabelais
into their systems. Let us hope only the
very toughest specimens of the genus John
Hop are allowed to take the dreadful risk.
No ; I am not ashamed of - Sydney. 1
look back in glee to the year 1788, when
the Marquis de Langle heard that his
“Voyage en Espagne” had been condemned
to be burned and said: “So much the better.
The .reader loves the books they burn, so
does the publisher, and the author—it is
his blue ribbon.” So lam proud of Sydney.
It has given the blue ribbon to the mythical
author of the Arabian Nights. I am proud
of Melbourne, too. There a politician,
without having read Norman Lindsay’s
“Red Heap,” asked to have that book
banned, and made himself a joke for the
earth to laugh at.
CECIL MANN.
Confession of a Poetical Buffoon.
Pundits have been whooping in the daily
press about the sad state of Australian let-
ters, the sublimity or depravity of a tax
on imported literature, with a consensus of
opinion that things are not what they were
in our young days. Neither, for the matter
of that, is bassoon-playing or the national
debt. The question whether or no the
change is an improvement remains moot.
If poetry, for example, is indeed at a low
ebb in this country, the reason lies in the
apparent dearth of poets. For all I know,
the continent may be thronged with them,
but as most of them have no large private
incomes and are still addicted to eating,
they coop the muse in a rabbit-hutch or
some other unobstrusive place, and get on
with the business of keeping body and soul
together.
I have been known to put my own name
at the bottom of rhymes I have made, and
some people have alleged that they were
really not at all bad, especially for a one-
armed man. But these sprouts of poesy were,
mere occasional luxuries, for, since all verse
is sold by length, their production is quite
unprofitable; a shrewd greengrocer would
rapidly lose enthusiasm for the pastime of
selling strawberries at the same rate per
pound as he was able to command for his
spuds.
I, therefore, achieve a precarious exist-
ence by the manufacture of versical buffoon-
eries under at least a dozen pseudonyms,
mostly of a ribald nature, and these I hawk
hither and yon from one great Organ of
Public Opinion to another. I strike a notion
which seems as if it might be distorted into
a smile, attenuate it to the greatest length
my effrontery will allow—and thank my
stars that it wasn’t a sonnet.
The system makes for that sort of thing
as surely as painting and sculpture would
languish if pictures sold by area and statues
by bulk. Whoever was first inspired by the
idea labored, evidently, under the miscon-
ception that artists are not logical folk.
The contrary is true, as that stout man,
Jack Cade, reiterated in his proclamation.
Artists are superbly logical folk: their busi-
ness is to see things clearly. The business
of the craftsman, however, is to make cor-
rectly a specialised set of movements.
I have never met a graphic artist who
could not turn a pleasing phrase, nor a
writer who could not make a tolerable shot
at drawing.' Both had minds to register
accurate impressions of things about them.
It ought to be clear, then, that as soon as
any youth trots out a villanelle or some-
thing, he hushes it up as best he can, hunts
for a job in the gent.’s merceiy and puts
forth limericks in his hours of leisure. This
is probably the reason why, so frequently,
a windowful of chaste effects in gent.’s
half-hose and shirtings is much more pleas-
ing to the eye than half our paintings. The
window was, likely enough, dressed by a
frustrated poet and the picture fabricated
by a craftsman.
GEOFFREY CUMINE.
For the Love of Fight
Nobody should pity D. H. Lawrence
because of the newspaper slander and
police persecution he evoked. These
things were the bitters ip the Martini
of his life. He liked to be attacked. He
was never happier than when he was fight-
ing. All his life was an attempt to stir up
the bile of the English middle-classes, whose
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


“Truth in Advertising”-—the coping-stone oj business integrity.
Through and Through
\UMB UK”
was
/
m
wt
%
%
Obtainable only at Anthony Horderns’
\\\'
&
i
5
$
?Sw
:
R
ss
«PS
(O
Wool bred in Australia’s glorious sunshine went into the making of this superb under-
wear that in quality and finish is among the finest that can be produced. There is
softness and warmth in the very feel of it, and there is shapeliness and artful tailoring
in its lines. It has flat, overlooked seams and knitted ribbed ends, and is obtainable
in both shirts and pants. Truly, as the winter season approaches and the bite in
the air “feelingly persuades us” to get into warmer wear, this is a man’s underwear
that men must turn to in grateful recognition of its merits. It is guaranteed unshrinkable.
Natural all pure wool in a
prices.
Sizes, in.
Undershirts (half-sleeves),
Underpants, per pair .. .
Medium Winter Weight
delightfully soft finish that comes in the following styles, sizes and
34 36 38 40 42 44
pair 11/3 11/6 12/- 12/9 13/6 14/6
l2/3 12/6 13/- 13/9 14/6 15/6
Warm Winter Weight
This is in a natural wool and cotton mixture of fine wearing
quality.
j
Sizes, in. 34 36 38 40 42 44
Undershirts—
(half-sleeves), pair .. 8/6 9/- 9/6 10/- 10/3 11/-
Underpants, per pair .... 9/3 9/9 10/3 10/9 11/- 11/9
Extra Warm Winter
Weight
In natural all pure wool with an excep-
tionally soft and velvety finish.
Undershirts (half-sleeves), pair—
(Undershirts with long sleeves, 1/3 extra.)
The above lines are also stocked in sizes
up to 50in. at a slight advance in price.
{Dept., Ground Floor. We pay carnage.)
If you use our Deposit-Purchase System, better known as the D.-P.8., you need not
pay cash for these goods. Make a deposit, complete payments as it suits your
convenience, arid when the final payment is made, the merchandise will be delivered
to you in the usual way. And, remember—only the cash price is charged.
sd
f
dsf
sd
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
(The Senior Store)
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED,
SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


1
.: :
'
.
S 3
tm
3
m
y
m
m
When
other cigarettes
lose their savour
try
the cigarettes
that always satisfy.
or
State (xpr£Ss
335
CIGARETTES
MADE- IN LONDON
/ wx*
Sty,
I
iMj
wmm


Gothic lacework
atop a skyscraper
. . . you can see this
great building
en route to England
across America
The soaring beauty of
Gothic architecture
was adapted to a modem
business building in the
Tribune Tower, Chicago.
It is superbly carved and
the flying buttresses that
support the crown are
seven storeys in height.
America’s fascinating
cities and National Parks
are right along your most
direct route “back home”
your shortest, fastest
route to England! Take a
Matson liner from Sydney
and you can be in London
29 days later. The cost is
moderate. Railway travel
in America is simple, in-
expensive and delightful.
Ask for new free illus-
trated literature, “To Eng-
land Across America.”
'The Oceanic Ste amshipCo.
IWSON LINE
Dept. M 7, 12 Bridge Street,
Sydney. Tele.: B 7981.
Mcllwraith, McEacharn Ltd.
DALGETY Si CO. LTD.
Mel., Adlde., Perth, Fmtle., Alby.
DALGETY & CO. LTD.
Brisbane and Queensland Ports
§ 4
mm
rJ -J ,#■<>
is
1
llltlllilt
«•} s
m
m
s
II
II
!
11
mm
i«
Hi
$•
111
*m
li
iili
Wmm
#»*##
m
i
ii
ss
~~ —i| x «:f
nil ii
«#. SSSBK *»
liii' ||
sp
a»
s«ps
tiirit i
i
wif
jaw ■s**
ss:«8
KH
«ws?«PS3J
f'P
a
i
ST:
r*
Like a great cathedral —the Tribune Tower
rancor gave him the assurance that he
was living and working to some purpose.
I have never seen a man more interested in
what people said about him. Moral execra-
tions drove him to frenzies of delighted
belligerence, and in those moments he
escaped from the ordeal of the agonised
introspection in which at other times his
neuroses held him. He buried himself in
papers and press cuttings, craved for news
of the latest apothegm from a virtuous
policeman or politician. Next to Shaw, who
contributes articles to the press for nothing,
he was the cheapest notable writer alive.
He would not write for newspapers, but
he did a lot of journalism by way of intro-
ductions and pamphlets, more for the joy
of fighting than for the financial return.
Yet he was not a rich man. He began to
make money out of his English sales only
last year, when his exhibition of paintings
gave him a momentary succes de scandale.
In America he was more popular. This is
true of all the more intelligent novelists.
Because he always managed to keep the
English antbed in a buzz and bustle, Law-
rence led a full and happy life. To con-
tact with him was a memorable experience.
He had tremendous vitality and that rare
capacity for communicating it to people
with whom he conversed, so that you came
away from him in a fever of illumination,
as it were, a sort of ecstasy. Here, you
felt, was one authentically great. The only
other man with whom I have felt this
was Norman Lindsay. Lawrence was like
Lindsay in many ways. He had the same
passionate interest in ideas and the same
alchemic genius for producing them from
the most unpromising material. He talked
with an infectious feverishness, with quick
gestures, with, shrill quick laughter, quick
short sentences. He shared with Lindsay,
too, a broad and genial love for the human
qualities of man and contempt for piddling
idealisms. He seemed frail, ill, yet radi-
antly dynamic, satanic.
His social resentments were intense. They
exposed themselves in another constant
theme of his work—the degradation of
cultured, sensitive, aristocratic personalities
by contact with brutal forces suddenly
released from within or imposed by a con-
temptuously remorseless world. He is said
to have been, the son of a miner. He is
said, also, to have been the son of a school-
master in a, nasty little English town where
the local squire’s sons, who have since be-
come the centre of England’s most finicky
band of aesthetes, snubbed him cruelly. I
am inclined to believe the second bit of
gossip. A miner has his social rights; the
aristocrat has his. The upper middle
classes have none. They are neither fish
nor flesh nor herring. His destiny mani-
fested a perverse sense of humor. The
lower classes couldn’t understand his work.
The middle classes understood it less and
hated it. The only people who appreciated
him were the very people he detested most,
though unconsciously. He despised his own
class, but he hated the aristocrats. But,
ironically, the friendships of his later years
were among them. He was, I believe, a
bitter conversationalist with them.
Lawrence was a great man, but his per-
sonality was greater than his work. Never-
theless the novel has a lot to thank him
for. The most intelligent elements of Joyce
derive obviously from him. Sherwood
Anderson and his school are his American
shadow. Anyway, he was the only vital
Englishman writing, the only mind of any
value that was not wasting, itself with mere
futile literary theorising.
LONDON.
BRIAN PENTON.
Founders and Pioneers
Few Australian historians have proved
themselves strikingly qualified to write
history. A. Grenfell Price is one of
the few. In his Founders and Pioneers
of South Australia (Preece), engagingly
written, careful in detail, his chosen
nine come to life on the page, and
with them the atmosphere in which
they worked. The nine—Wakefield,
Sturt, Angas, Hindmarsh, Light, Gawler,
McLaren, Kavel and Cadell—are dealt with
in separate chapters, each a fine potted
biography. But the chapters dovetail, and
together make an admirable . history of
South Australia’s early days. They give,
too, a very readable history of the" South
Australian Company, not so picturesque of
course as the India Company, but indi-
vidual enough to become some day perhaps
a big character in our historical fiction.
Here its story, like the story of the State’s
development, is subservient to the character
stories; a strong, deftly suggested back-
ground, with the Nine set out boldly in
front, and with many others whose - import-
ance the writer does not underestimate
filling up the middle distance. That is the
book’s merit; it gives a picture that the
reader can clearly see. There is no fog
of pedantry, nor distortion of prejudice. It
is altogether an excellent piece of work.
The style is fresh and vigorous:—
Colonel William Light is probably the most
romantic and pathetic figure in South Australian
history. Like the swallow in the Anglo-Saxon
legend, he flashed from the darkness across the
firelight, and out into the darkness beyond. But
in the three years that he was officially connected
with the settlement he carried out the most success-
ful. and permanent work in the story of the colony.
His “hero” is Wakefield. “In the pro-
creation of South Australia no one can dis-
pute Wakefield’s place.” He has, however,
no wrongheaded idea of the human side of
that, in youth, deceitful seducer, but finds
it impossible in a single chapter “to make
any proper estimate of Wakefield or to pay
an adequate tribute to such a man.”
Unorthodox, even unscrupulous, he often was, and
like all geniuses he was never an easy man to work
with, hut he was a devoted husband and parent, a
warm and generous friend, and, despite the calumnies
of his enemies, one who toiled for the Empire
and the colonies with no thought of personal gain.
For his years of slavery in the colonial interests he
received no salary, and he even declined a gift from
the New Zealand Company of £lOOO to cover
expenses which he had incurred on its behalf.
A characteristic of this historian-bio-
grapher is his fairness. He is not foolishly
sympathetic; does not try to make his men
into gods, nor find them virtues they never
had. But if there is something to be said
in their favor, lie says it. Hindmarsh was
calamitous as a civilian, but his naval record
was glowing. Angas was not the father and
founder of South Australia, but he was not
far short of it. Gawler’s administration
was one of the greatest tragedies of Aus-
tralian history, but “it is possible that he
was made a scapegoat for others, that his
faults were magnified by the misrepresen-
tations of a powerful and vindictive enemy,
and |that, at the least, he deserves more
sympathy than blame.”
The book is freely illustrated with
approximately* contemporaneous drawings
and engravings, with portraits of the Nine
and others, which enhance the strongly
authentic flavor.
Books Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a com-
mittee nominated by the Associated Book-
sellers of Australia and Maoriland. It is
printed as a guide to books of merit,
though not necessarily with the Red Page’s
endorsement.
General Literature —The Portrait of a
Chinese Lady, by Lady ILosie; The Land
of Dohori, by Alice J. Keelan; The Hun-
dred Best English Essays, selected by the
Ear] of Birkenhead; The Red Knight of
Germany, by Floyd Gibbons; All Our Yes-
terdays, by H. M. Tomlinson; The Endless
Adventure, by F. S. Oliver ; Lord Carmichael
of Skirby, by Lady Carmichael; Slavery, by
Lady Simon.
Novels of Literary Merit. —Hudson River
Bracketed, by Edith Wharton; Medal with-
out Bar, by Richard Blaker.
Novels for Popular Reading. —The Aveng-
ing Ray. by Seamark; Out of the Depths, by
Joseph Hocking; The Valiant, by William
McLeod Raine; The Red Brand, by C. A.
Seltzer; The Runner, by Ralph Connor;
Medal without Bar. by Richard Blaker;
Cheri, by Colette; Shepherds in Sackcloth,
by Sheila Ivaye-Smith; Deputy Sheriff, by
Clarence Mulford; The Black Camel, by
Earl Biggers.
A Satchel of Books
Allardyce Nicoll does a great service to
students of. English literature in general and of
the poetic drama in particular through his edit-
ing of The Complete Works of Cyril Tour-
neur (Fanfrolico Press). His efforts to
identify Tourneur with the soldier of varied
fortune named Tournour (or thereabout)
who flourished in the seventeenth century
are at least just as engaging as the efforts
to prove that Bacon, Edward de Yere or
some other wrote Shakspeare. His just
appraisal of the work itself has a very dif-
ferent value, and in this and his careful
editing he has made a book complete and
definitive. His publishers match his excellent
work with a splendid production.
Now and then the novel-reviewer comes
across a book which is as refreshing as a
delightful view in a dull landscape. Wilfrid
Benson’s Dawn on Mont, Blanc (Hogarth
Press) is one. Its chief characters are some
of the League of Nations employees at
Geneva and their wives. There are many
amusing pictures of the backbiting and
snobbishness that distinguish all small
British communities, and of the racial
hatreds and misunderstandings that exist
between the international officials who are
paid to Christianise the world. Young
Roger Maiteland is the only practising
Christian in his circle. In other words, lie
is an impossible young idiot who gets him-
self thoroughly disliked and is sacked —
nominally for inefficiency, actually for per-
suading his wife to look after a sick street-
walker. All the characters are drawn with
artistic restraint. Even poor Nina —a
masterly study of a moral weakling—is full
of redeeming qualities. Madame Scliloop, the
immoral Swiss cook, is a gem of humor and
observation.
Memoirs of Casanova (Routledge.). A
two-volume edition that will bring the
essence and much of the substance of the
famous memoirs to many who would never
have been able to buy the complete Arthur
Machen translation. The editor, George
Dunning Gribble, has done his work of
reducing creditably. Everything of out-
standing worth in the complete edition has
been preserved, and the connecting links,
which leave no break in the story, are writ-
ten with such clarity and conciseness that
they almost match Machen’s fine prose. It
is one of the most curious illustrations of this
earth’s mock-modesty that Casanova (that
great liar) should remain anywhere on the
Index at this day. True, the record is
packed with his affairs with women, but
these are described with a restraint and with
an apparently deliberate attempt to evade
mere suggestiveness that are almost pious
alongside the efforts of many novelists who
pass as respectable, and of many movie-
makers whose noble works inspire the small
talk of flappers and flappers’ grandmothers,
The defence that our racy novels and movies
are mere fiction and the memoirs disgrace-
fully real will not, of course, hold water.
God made Ananias, but went one better
in the making of Casanova. How much of
the “Memoirs” is true, how much invention,
many have tried to decide. It is an idle
task. Better to accept the old boy as a
sheer romancer, and as such author of one
of the greatest of all picaresque novels. This
edition does that novel no serious injury;
Mr. Gribble steps in when he finds old
Giacomo a little more diffuse than usual and
simply puts on the brake. The result is
a completely satisfying book.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
E.P.M. : Amusing; have printed worse in
days when space wasn’t so scarce... .T.R.8.:
“Traveller” comes to a poor end... . 0J1.N.: You’ve
got a fatal habit of using the wrong polysyllable.
. ...Mittai: No hope for you, either; till you learn
simplicity... .A.R.: Arrested at the third page
for loitering. .. .P.M.L.: “The Finger of Fate”
wrote its own obituary notice... .0.M.: Returning
your long and uninteresting manuscript, but a ljd.
stamp was insufficient. You should have sent a
pantechnicon... .Awani: No use for daily-paper
sporting pars, dished up again R. 8.: “The
Kookaburra’s Tradgic Flight” is homewards....
G.S.: That’s no way to write a Bulletin
par. It’s more, like a. leader. . . .E.G.M.:
Points a fair moral, but it’s a shaky finger.
.E.G.8.: In burning off “Timber Country”
the fire reached “The Road to Muc-ka”. .. .G.H.P.:
You seem to know everything about the vegetables
except how to make them into poetry....M.P.P.:
Empty... .S.N.A.: Well, you’re a cheerful 50u1....
Absit: Parody isn’t popular... .L.E.S.: One in hand
for that occasion.... Ben M.: “Hath not gazed at
yon motley throng at its open flaps'?” Yeth ; but
don’t fanthy ’em... .C.A.P.: This is something like
poetry:—
Between the gorgeous scarlet and brilliant greens of
Geranium blossoms on the window sill •
1 can look down
Through the dust-misted and stifling atmosphere
Into a busy street
Embroidered with paper-littered gutters
And forgotten refuse.
... .C.J.M.: “Life’s Orchard” wouldn't keep a poet
in lemonade.... T.S.G.: Still fails by a mile....
W.P.S.: Ode to “The First Beermaker” thin stuff.
... .W.M.F.: No oil there... .The Duffer: Four lines
from “Printers of the Past”:—
I’ve worked upon the “Dead Bird,” whence the
“Bird of Freedom” grew,
With “Smiler” Hales and Evans and poor old
“Verax,” too.
And though they only catered for to suit a certain
mob
It was still the class of paper that kept parsons
in their job.
....Leamington: “Retrogression” is good enough
verse, hut it doesn’t quite click.... Ole Blue: “Un-
beaten” gets the knock. .. .1.W.A.: “Life’s Day” has
joined the same thing’s “Fond Dream”, . . .W.J.-R.:
Not an overpowering effort.... L.W.: “Gloom grows
into pallor, and the pallor brightens into light,” is
not verse... .F.G.: As dismal as a professional
humorist... . Boas: Has an air of poverty....
L.E.P.: It has all been said before... .R.W.R,:
Can’t share your enthusiasm for Andy... .T.E.L.:
A cocky who couldn’t curse better than that would
be kicked out of the union... .1.T.0.: Plausible
as a side-show poster. .. .Heg (age 23 years): Do
you mean yourself, or the verse? Nautilus: —
When the sun has set and their. spirit fled,
The body before alive now is termed “dead.”
That looks so much like news that you ought to
send it to the flapper press... .M.G.: Another
“Silvern Aeroplane” has gone down in flames.-...
E.M.IL: Nothing in those... .W.F.8.: No, it did
not. How on earth could you think it did?
Gindi: “The Light that Failed”—well, you picked a
winning title.... J.M.P.: Both thin. . . .P.J.1.: Don’t
like “Wet Weather”... .T.P.M.: A good theme, but
it would need powerful treatment... .L.C.: So many
words; so little said. .. .W.H.D.: Too much like
your namesake to resemble him....P.8.: L005e....
E. : A little steam let off.. . .P.J.: You might
have done better with that idea... .O.B.: Have
hopes that you’ll inherit “Bellerive’s” mantle....
S.L.: Looks suspiciously like good advice. .. .A.H.N.:
Slightness beat it....E.H.: Good stuff in it —and
you can’t quite do it. . . .K.R.C.: Look out for Long-
fellow if ever you meet him. .. Edrie: Goes to
prove just how little can be said in eight lines....
W.E.W/: So long “Adieu”... .8.M.M.: Would need
to be better.... M.E.: “The Future” is past....
G. : Nothing in the political windbags....
H. : Have read better. .. .D.E.R.: Forty lines to
ask whether Australia is on the rocks or n0t!....
M.S.: “Journey’s End” has met itself.... P.C.: All
right but for your apparent determination not to
say anything.... T/B. A.: Don’t know what it i 5....
Faery Bob: You should feel better now. ...Mildura:
The third version is the best, but that is not flattery.
....J.S.: Not on that sample... .P.J. H.: Ordinary
theme... .Finghin Og: No more kick than an average
nip of whisky... .G.S.: Religious Editor had the
same dream... .T.W.S.: No g00d.... W. J.W.: Afraid
it has to meet the usual fate. .. .E.M.L.: “Diapered
dishes of pies” selected from a promising 10t....
F. : “The Autumn Comrade” is going home....
M.M.J.H.: Neither story nor “photos of grave”
tempt us. .. .L.R.S.: “Phantom leech” draws no
b100d.... 8.P.: Why go to France for material?
. ...M.H.: By no means badly done, but much too
long D.C.: “The ring” doesn’t ring true....
F.-W.W.: Better stick to cattle... .E.R.D.: Well
written, but air fights have been described so often.
. ...E.C.E.: Suitable for local publication 0n1y,...
C.J.8.W.: Keep your pecker up.... 1.5.: Needs
reconstruction and condensation.... .A.T.8.: “The
Shadow.” lacks substance... .A.D.: Story of ducks,
a fox and a fat sergeant too discursive... .R.J.A.:
Such a waste of adjectives!
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.T.8.: You emerge slowly from the kindergarten
stage C.P.A.: Work of neither a draughtsman
nor a humorist. .. . K.R.: You’ll attract attention
when you learn to get your details right... .S.M.:
Why did you jamb everything on the left-hand side?
W.s. : Scamped F.E.: Change your thinking
cap if you can’t do better than that. .. .H.A.N.:
Don’t scribble J.H.: One of the oldest ma-in-Jaw
jokes in existence. ... 8.T.W.: No U.S. undergrad,
slang, please!...-D.D.: Champion axeman’s missus
looks us up every month... .J.S.V.: If you had
spent less time on the border and more on the
drawing you might have stood a chance.. . .M.K.:
The inventor of the eraser did you a service....
J.A.: Penwork shows signs of timidity F.0.R.:
Poor idea poorly illustrated.... SLM.: Just look at
the jazz-player’s right arm !. . . .1.L.: Don t fret
because a first attempt fails; so few are any good.
. ...G.A.L.: Still running... .A.R.F.: Which is the
drunk, and what does it all mean?


m
U
I
s*sii^*s
mmmmm
;
■.■• V ■ '
d
mm
& :
1
m
mm
m&i .Westert
V.
1 ' Mgi
wm
,/„ v * • •;
1
— . ,
■ , -
v
OUT


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2620.
April 30, 1930,
"OPEN IN THE NAME OF THE LAW!”
"For some time past there have been both union and voluntary workers on the Melbourne wharves. By regulation issued just before Parliament rose, the Scullin
mov eminent decreed the abolition of separate pick-up places provided for in the Beeby award, and has since warned the shipowners that if they do not restore the
union to its old position the Government will take steps to make them.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the While Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 214 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: lU r 2O Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westrai.ia: S 3 Barracl: Street, Perth.
London : 86 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 57 95.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 1/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: lOoz., Id. United Kingdom: 4oz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additiotial ,)oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: J/oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
CENSORSHIP OF ART AND LITERATURE—
By Cecil Mann .. . . .. 2
D. H. LAWRENCE—AN ESTIMATE OF THE
MAN, by Brian Penton . . . . 2, 5
PIONEERS OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA—
By Grenfell Price . . .. . . 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..6
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON .. ..7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
A CENTRAL RESERVE BANK 8
OUR THREATENED POUND 8
MOTHER INDIA, by “Feng-Shui” . . . . 8
ARE PRICES LIKELY TO FALL? .. ..8
WORK FOR THE HUNGRY 9
CHANGES AT GOVERNMENT HOUSE . . 9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with cartoonlets by
Frith) . . .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . . . 11, 12
PERSONAL (with illustrations) . . . . . . 13
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 14, 16
THIS WEEK’S INVESTMENT TIP . . . . 14
BANK OF ADELAIDE 14
ARTHUR RICKARD’S COS 14
KEMPTHORNE, PROSSER 14
SHAMROCK BREWERY 14
MORETON CENTRAL SUGAR 16
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL ' 17
SHADOW SHOWS—
A GUIDE TO THE PICTURES 17
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) . . .. 18
The Return of Backhaus . . . . . . .. 18
More Sydney Show Drawings, by Frith . . 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 19, 21
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 25
SENATOR GUTHRIE’S HOLDINGS .. ..22
ROTATION AND PRODUCTION .. ..22
QUESTIONS ANSWERED 22
HOAV TO KEEP FARM ACCOUNTS .. . . 25
Free Service Department • • • .. 26
SMOKE-OH (with three drawings) .. .. 28
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, etc 31
POVERTY POINT 33
THE INKY WAY 33
SPORTING (illustrated) 35, 36
THE RANDWICK MEETINGS . . . . . . 35
SERIAL—“MEN ARE HUMAN”. . . . 38, 50
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 41
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 42
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 43
The New Serial—
“THE PASSAGE,” by Vance Palmer 44, 45, 46
“As We Said Before”—
A NEW WEEKLY FEATURE . . . . 47
A COMPLETE STORY—
“THE SUPPLANTER,” by W. D. Flannery.. 49, 50
VERSE —By C. H. Souter, Oscar Walters,
Adrian Summers, Siborn Nicholas, Robert
D. Fitz Gerald, Mary Walker.. 11, 21, 46, 50
NEXT WEEK.
IS THERE OVER-PRODUCTION?—An Inquiry
into another Australian Problem.
3. H. M. Abbott writes a very interesting story
which introduces some new characters of early
Sydney.
WHAT IS THE STRENGTH OF AUSTRALIAN
BANKS? —A matter of great importance just now.
A set of brilliant cartoons and drawings.
ffie'&zzlZeZz/yi
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30, 1930.
A CENTRAL RESERVE BANK.
A bank as we know it is an institution
which puts up a certain amount of share
capital and thereafter accepts deposits, on
current account and for fixed terms, for
the purpose of lending to the public on
security. In theory it should never make
a loss; the security should always cover
the advance. In practice it is not possible
to avoid losses; and they can be more
easily made in Australia than in many
other countries. Three things are mainly
responsible for that. (1) We are very
dependent on primary products which are
subject to extraordinary variations in
price. (2) A quite unusual proportion of
Australian bank advances are made on the
security of pastoral and agricultural assets
whose earning powers and veiy existence
are subject to the influences of drought.
(3) Boom conditions, with their following
reactions, are inevitable consequences of a
sporadic policy of foreign borrowing, and
these conditions and reactions are accentu-
ated by the national psychology. In all
the circumstances it is to the infinite credit
of Australian banks that crises involving
loss of deposits or share capital have been
so very few. Only twice have there been
periods of anything like general bank em-
barrassment—the first nearly 90 years and
the second nearly 40 years ago.
To a great extent our banking system is
responsible for this. We have followed the
British plan of having a few big banks with
many branches rather than tlte American
plan of having a multitude of weak mostly-
local banks. And the movement, here as
in Britain, has been steadily towards amal-
gamation and consolidation. With a single
exception no new joint-stock bank has been
established in Australia for more than 40
years, notwithstanding the -great progress
of the country in that time, while during
the past 15 years no less than eight have
been merged into others, reducing the
total by just upon one-half. It is quite
true that size is not strength; but it is
beyond question that one big bank, with
its risks well distributed, can withstand
shocks that would send a number of small
banks toppling one after another. Further,
the collapse of a big bank would be so
catastrophic that no other big bank could
afford to withhold assistance to prevent the
disaster, whereas the threatened disappear-
ance of a small bank, or even a series of
small banks, might not command concerted
action.
There is, however, something very vague
and uncertain about this. Not only does it
leave us open to the remote possibility of
a huge crash, but it imposes no obligation
upon the less prudent bank; the imprudent
bank can loaf on the prudent ones. Hence
there is a call to regularise this plan of
mutual support. The American banking
system demanded a supplementary insti-
tution, and after long debate it was brought
into being just before the war—the Central
Reserve Bank. And though the Australian
system never did call so loudly for such a
thing, and though it calls less loudly now
perhaps than ever previously, there is
room for something of the sort here, top.
Yet it is not urgent; and it would be better
to leave matters as they are than impose
anything of a doubtful character.
The Federal Government proposes to cut
the Commonwealth Bank into two sections,
and on one of these sections to build Aus-
tralia’s central reserve bank. It is to have
a capital of £2,000,000 provided out of the
profits of the Commonwealth Bank, and
with it is to be left 10 p.c. of all call money
deposited with other banks and 5 p.c. of
all their other deposits. It is not to accept
deposits from the public, and is to be
barred from holding shares in other banks
or in commercial undertakings, and it is
not to lend on land. Its purpose being to
assist other banks to tide over periods of
exceptional difficulty, all this is quite right.
Liquidity is the prime essential. To that
end the funds must be in cash or the most
gilt-edged securities capable of the prompt-
est realisation. For that reason the
separation of the reserve bank from the
Commonwealth Bank is very proper. The
Commonwealth Bank not only lends on
land, which is liable to be the most “frozen”
of all securities, but makes advances to
municipalities and other bodies for long
periods. As a reserve bank it is therefore
impossible.
If we are to have a reserve bank the first
question to be answered is Who should
create and control it? The Government’s
proposal is that it should be governed by a
board of three of its own officials, a Treasury
official, and representatives of banking,
commerce, manufacturing, primary industry
and labor. Now, if this were to be a trading
bank, there might be wisdom in bringing
together these specialists. But above all
things it must not be a trading bank. Its
aim is not to make profits, but to hold in
the most liquid form possible these mil-
lions of safety reserves. To give the banks
no more control over them than is pro-
posed may in itself constitute a danger.
Nothing ought to be done that will tend to
make any bank less cautious. Nothing
ought to be done that will relieve a bank
of one whit of responsibility for its failure.
If the Government removes these reserves
absolutely out of the control of the banks,
the time is pretty certain to come when one
of them will take chances which it should
not take and throw upon this reserve in-
stitution the responsibility of saving it, and
if it is not saved the blame will be
thrown on this separate institution. It is as
though a steamship co. took charge of its
passengers’ lives until in sight of rocks
and then was obliged to hand them over to
some authority not of its own choosing.
Inasmuch as the Central Reserve Bank
will have control of the note issue, the
Treasury ought to have some representa-
tion; but the less we relieve the banks of
the responsibility for the safety of the
public’s money committed to their keeping
the better.
OUR THREATENED POUND.
Militant Labor, in accordance with its
policy of viewing everything class-consci-
ously, is attributing Australia’s present
troubles to local capitalists who, according
to Mr. Willis in the N. S. Wales Legislative
Council, “have manufactured a crisis with
the object of inflating and increasing the
value of their interests while at the same
time deflating the standard of living.” But
Australian capitalism was not responsible
for the overseas fall in wool values which
brought our troubles to a head. Australian
capitalism was no more to blame than
Venetian capitalism was to blame for Vasco
da Gama’s discovery of a route to India
which transferred the Indian trade from
Venice to Lisbon. Or than English capi-
talism is to blame for the plight of Brad-
ford. Neither is capitalism entirely to
blame for the overseas loan bill which is
the foundation of our difficulties; quite as
much of the money was borrowed by
gentlemen like Mr. Willis to pay artificially
increased wages which went, unfortunately,
in time-payment cars and gramophones, not
to mention bookmakers’ tickets.
Because we have spent too much and
earned too little the Australian pound has
fallen abroad; and it threatens to fall
further. The curi-encies of scores of other
nations and States have gone the same way
for similar reasons. The notes, assignats,
mandates, etc., of Russia, Austria and Italy
and many less financial countries (including
S. American States) have been sniffed at,
by foreigners at different times; and some
are being sniffed at still. It is always pos-
sible to tell a nation whose currency is in
a bad way by the number of cheap workers
and prostitutes it exports.
Australia has not reached the coolie-
and prostitute-exporting stages yet, but its
position is ominously like that of France
was five years ago. Just as our politicians
borrowed money to buy popularity, so the
French politicians refrained from imposing
necessary taxation with the same object. In
1925 the French were paying £4 per head
in taxation while the British were paying
£l6 per head, exclusive of rates. Wages
were too high and hours were too short in
France, but if anyone said so the unions
answered, through the politicians, that the
Germans would pay. When the world
realised that the Germans were not going
to pay, the foreign loan market closed
down, as it did when the discovery was
made that sheep were not going to pay
our bills. The same thing began to happen
to the franc as threatens to happen to our
pound. During the first six months of 1926
it halved in value. Some consequences
were:—
(1) Importers and others with accounts
to meet abroad had to pay twice as many
francs.
(2) Fixed incomes halved in purchasing
value.
(3) Manufacturers, dependent on raw
materials from abroad, found their overseas-
costs had doubled, and started to dismiss
hands and close down their works.
The French next lost confidence in the
solvency of their country, and began to sell
francs abroad, and gamblers made fortunes
out of them. The Government tried to
prevent the exportation of capital, bxxt
failed. The people—capitalists and workers
alike—were experiencing the horrors of a
depreciated currency, which, in Webstei-’s
words, “has killed moi-e men in America.,
corrupted the choicest intei’ests of our
country more, and done more injustice than
all the arms and artifices of our enemies.”
Poincai'e was able to put matters straight
chiefly because France, like Australia, has
certain natural advantages: it is agricul-
turally self-supporting, and it has a pull in
a number of luxury lines (wines, perfumes
and the tourist business), as we have in
wool and to a less extent in wheat, butter
and fruit. Otheiwise France would be in
the condition of servitude which barren
Austria has occupied since the war. The
French Government’s policy was the same
as the policies of Australia’s various Gov-
ernments will have to be. The Prime
Minister laid himself out to pay for the
cake that had been eaten. He began by
halving the Cabinet, wiping out all the
under-secretaryships, and almost halving
the Civil Service. He imposed taxation
and saw that it was paid, and he stressed
in flaring advertisements all over the
country the patriotic duty of saving the
franc. Austi'alia has never shirked taxa-
tion; we pay nearly as much per head
(Commonwealth and State) as the Bi’itish.
We have only shirked work. The Aus-
tralian pound will collapse unless we realise
that capitalism is only at the root of our
present difficulties to the extent that it
provides mid-week racecourses, picture
shows, stadiums and similar establishments
where time is wasted expensively. France
had to work hard and save hard to re-
establish itself, and Australia will have to
do the same.
MOTHER INDIA.
Recently there has been, great activity in
the marriage market in the Bombay Presi-
dency. Parents are looking for suitable
mates for their offspring, the go-betweens
are busy and in Surat alone 2000 espousals
have been effected or projected. Most of
the marriages have been between children
under 11. One elderly gentleman of emin-
ence, and with an English education, has
earned praise from right-thinking Indians
by announcing his approaching union with
a bride aged seven. In some cities, to help
on the good work, there have been proces-
sions of prospective brides and bridegrooms,
some of the principals having to be carried
in the arms of their nurses.
Our brother in India is thus hastily in-
creasing his marriage statistics for precisely
the same reason that an Australian im-
porter increases his orders for hats when a
larger duty on hats is projected. Appalled
by the facts that there are over 2,000,000
wives in India between the ages of five and
ten; that there are 27,000,000 widows,
15,000,000 of whom are under five and none
of whom are eligible for remarriage; that
2,000,000 babies die annually and that,
owing largely to the debilitating effects of
early marriage, only one-quarter of the
population reaches 40, the British Govern-
ment, with scant assistance from Indians,
has brought in a Child Marriage Act raising
the nuptial age to 14; and it was to come
into force in April.
The worthy gentlemen who are momen-
tarily directing the fortunes of India from
London work on the assumption that the
Indian is thoroughly ashamed of his social
system—is so ashamed of it that he w-e -g
to destroy it and substitute the
system for it. Every utterance oi e\e
Labor statesman illustrates this assumption-
The Indian is expected to be gratified witn
an offer of self-government contingent on
India bringing its way of living more
less in line with Western practice. Nothing
is further from the thoughts of the vast
majority of orthodox Indians. .
The orthodox Indian may admit detects
in his social system, but he does not admit
its inferiority to the European. If y ol J
point to the disastrous physical results ol
child marriage he will quote the Hindu
doctrine that it is man’s duty to serve 1 e.
For a woman to serve life to the fullest she
must become a mother immediately aftei
puberty. If the result is a dead mother and
a sickly infant it is at least morally as good
you will be told, as the results achieved
by the Western system and obligingly
illustrated by the American movies.
If you point out the material advantages
of drains, the orthodox Indian will agree
with you, but he will point out in his turn
that, in the country where sanitation has
reached its highest development, spirit-
uality is at its lowest; and he prefers his
spirituality. In the sphere of political
economy the loinclothed philosopher is
equally sure of himself. Ghandi is the ava-
tar of eveiy orthodox Indian’s sub-conscious
wishes. The minimum demands which
that sun-browned Tolstoyan recently pre-
sented to the Viceroy would, if accepted,
involve the complete disintegration of
India, socially and physically. The orthodox
Indian contemplates this possibility with
equanimity.
Nevertheless there is a growing body of
opinion which takes a less anarchic view of
the situation. One reason why Gandhi’s
latest campaign for civil incoherence has
been a comparative failure is the revelation
of Indian disunity presented by the Nehru
report. This took the form of a Constitution
for all India, and it was framed by sincere
altruists who were prepared to go the
limit in concessions in order to hold India
together. It pleased nobody. The Moham-
medans saw in it a conspiracy to absorb
them into the mass of Hinduism, the Sikhs
feared subjection to their Moslem neigh-
bors, and the outcastes, who not long since
had to trail boughs behind them because
their footprints polluted the soil of Mother
India., saw it as a plot to keep them in
permanent slavery to the Brahmins. Even
the Indian majority rejected it because the
mass was not prepared to go as far as its
leaders wanted it to.
The failure of the Nehru report left the
field clear for the findings of the Statutory
Commission appointed by the British Gov-
ernment to inquire into the whole question
and draft a new Constitution. It aims at
maintaining the supremacy of the British
as the only power capable of keeping India
from rending herself to pieces, and at the
same time granting as much self-govern-
ment as the heterogeneous collection of
nations speaking different tongues, wor-
shipping millions of different gods and
swayed by a multitude of incompatible
traditions, is likely to be able to handle. It
is more or less adapted to the fact that
Indian culture comprises all grades, from
people who spend their lives in trees to
people who spend 15 hours a day in modern
factories. The people who are kicking up
the present uproar are those who prefer
liberty with anarchy to partial freedom
with ordered progress; and at the moment
they are in a vast majority.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Are Prices Likely to Fall?
If we knew why the price of commodities
in the lump had almost doubled in 20
years we should be in a much better posi-
tion to judge whether the recent downward
movement is likely to continue or whether
it is merely a temporary variation. Look-
ing back it is almost impossible to escape
the conclusion that the world’s output of
gold has a great deal to do with the level
of prices, and, along with the output of
gold, the work which the metal has to do.
The latter factor is probably very import-
ant in the present situation; for not only
has there been an enormous flow of gold
out of the rest of the world into the U.S.A.,
but during the last generation almost every
country which previously had silver for a
standard or one of its standards has
adopted the gold basis.
In the early ’forties Australia had its first
taste of exceptionally low prices; that was
the period of our first financial crisis, when
live stock were so cheap that tens of thou-
sands of head were boiled down for their
tallow. Then came California and after
California our own diggings, and gold be-
came so plentiful that long leases in
London embodied the provision that the
lessor might demand payment in silver. By
1861 prices of commodities were almost as
high as they have been in recent years.
Our own “Commonwealth Year Book,”
which takes the prices of 1911 as the
standard (1000), shows that in that year
1861 the price level was 1538. After that,
with the world’s gold output again de-
clining, there was a steady recession of
prices until in 1881 the level was down to
1121. , *
Shortly after that year, South Africa and
Westralia began to pour out their riches.


HIS TURN NEXT.
"The Public Service vote was largely responsible for the defeat of the Butler Nationalist Government in S.A. and the Collier Labor Government in W.A.”
PUBLIC SERVICE: “You can see what’s happened to them, and now it’s your turn. It’s the people’s money or your political life. Now, what you got to say
about it?”
N.S.W. PREMIER BAVIN: “What I got to say is that the sooner we take some of the weight out of that club the better.”
There was not, however, any immediate
reaction in prices; either this theory of the
effect of gold on prices is wrong or there
were disturbing influences at work. It
could easily have been the latter; for this
was a period of very rapid development in
industry and international trade. At any
rate, notwithstanding the enormous output
of gold in the last 10 years of the century,
1904 saw the price level at 890—the lowest
since these statistics have been kept; and
that may have been due •in part to the
fact that during the Boer War the world’s
output of gold was suddenly reduced by
40 p.c. Since then, until quite lately, and
with insignificant variations, the movement
of prices has been rapidly upward. In
1912-15 the world’s gold output reached
its peak; it was then annually from 94 to
96 million pounds’ worth. But from that
peak there has been a steady recession,
until now it is somewhere about 79 millions,
and the fall continues.
No doubt there are other factors besides
gold in the determination of prices; but, if
gold is one determining factor, as experi-
ence seems to show, then there seems now
to be ahead of us a period of lower prices,
so far as this factor is effective. For other
influences may exert a greater pull in the
other direction. Thus far it seems to have
been necessary to have an increasing out-
put in order to meet the world’s increasing
demands. But the gold won is not to any
great extent destroyed; and it may be that
a smaller output combined with the world’s
stock may maintain prices. There is no-
thing, however, in the history of the past
to suggest that it will be so; for we have
seen how steadily the price level fell after the
tremendous additions had been made to the
world’s stock of the metal in the late
’forties and the ’fifties.
♦
Work for the Hungry.
In times of depression the body politic
needs tonics. A good slogan emitted by a
Priminister is helpful in such circumstances
—something cheery and bracing, and, if
possible, epigrammatic. The much-worried
Mr. Scullin had a shot at one the other
day and evolved this: “Our first responsi-
bility as a Government is to see that
nobody goes hungry.” But it wasn’t cheery;
it wasn’t bracing; it wasn’t epigrammatic;
and it wasn’t true. It recalls an incident
of many years ago when life-saving societies
were first organised to reduce the death-
rate from drowning on Australian beaches.
A chairman said: “Our ideal should be to
ensure that no bather in peril shall go
unrescued.” “Don’t agree with you, Mr.
Chairman.” snapped an elderly "member.
“Our ideal should be to ensure that every-
one learns to swim.” The first responsi-
bility of even the most paternal of Gov-
ernments is to see, not that nobody goes
hungry, but that everyone able to earn a
I’.ving gets a chance to do so. One of the
reasons why Australia is at present floun-
dering in a plate of soup is that, so many
Governments have held the Scullin view
of their duties.
Widespread unemployment is the hall-
mark of unwise government, and the
attempts made by unwise Governments to
alleviate the suffering and privation which
are caused by unemployment invariably
intensify the trouble, because the cart is
put before the horse.
Work is scarcer than it should be in Aus-
tralia not because of “over-production” here
or elsewhere, but because so much of Aus-
tralia’s work is jobbed out to other coun-
tries, the inevitable corollary of a long-
continued policy of careless borrowing and
careless spending. Nations don’t borrow
money. They borrow the services money
will buy, and if they are foolish enough to
borrow services they could equally well
perform for themselves they are seeking
idleness and ensuring it.
The longer such a policy is pursued the
more disagreeable is the inevitable appli-
cation of the only remedy. And the remedy
will be applied, and is being applied, by
simple force of circumstances. Borrowing
has been drastically curtailed; the flood of
imports is being checked almost as effec-
tively by lack of credit as by the new tariff
and embargoes. Australia in a few months
will find that if it is to pay its debts and
enjoy even a measure of its former stand-
ard of comfort it will have to set every
idle hand to work and cut out many former
extravagances and luxuries, some of them
pernicious. No Government can stave off
that inevitable day. Scullin admits that the
limits of taxation are in sight. The hungry
can’t be fed with tax-money. They must
be set to work, and the artificial barriers
that stand between them and work must
go. That is the writing on the wall, and
the sooner Scullin sees it and builds his
slogans on it the better will it be for the
credit of his party.
♦
Changes at Government House.
No doubt some people will see Australia
making another quick journey to the dogs
if the Government has invited Chief
Justice Isaacs to be the next Governor-
General. But we shall get over it, and
be not a penny the worse.
There was a time when the Governor
really meant something. Nowadays the
best we can say for him is that he stands
for the Imperial connection. But that is
merely a phrase. Gallipoli and Egypt and
France —they stand for the Imperial con-
nection. And when you have a great thing
to stand for an idea, it is shockingly bad
policy to push the great thing aside and
replace it by a small thing.
We must realise that vast changes have
taken place in the government of Britain
as well as of Australia. There as here Labor
is in power; and, quite naturally, Labor
refuses to regard a Governorship as an
institution for the special benefit of any one
stratum of society“lf,” it says, in effect,
“there is any justification for maintaining
these Governorships at all, it is as political
institutions; and we must look for men
with a training in constitutional law to fill
them.” Whether we shall be any better
off under that rule is doubtful. The Gover-
nor trained in constitutional law, and more
or less sure of his opinion, is always liable
to set himself up against the judgment of
his constitutional advisers. It may be that,
after all, the system under which we have
been rubbing along—a system under which
the too-numerous Government Houses
have been occupied mainly by nice, amiable
old gentlemen, very good doctors, no doubt,
or soldiers or sailors, but with no training
in constitutional law and no pretentions
that way—it may be that, after all, this
system works out as well as any.
But whether we have the brilliant lawyer
or the dull layman, we can make up our
minds to this: further and further inroads
will be made upon the importance of Gov-
ernment House as a social centre, main-
tained as such out of the public revenue. If
Labor Governments in Australia were pre-
pared to provide the money, it is doubtful
whether Labor Governments in England
would be willing to send men as their repre-
sentatives who would be acceptable as social
leaders—in the old and narrow sense of
the term. For now we are brought right
up against the difficulty we have been dodg-
ing for years. Ostensibly a cog in the
machine of government, and paid as such,
in reality the Governor—whether State
Governor or Governor-General—has been
chiefly a cog in the social machine, and has
been chosen with an eye almost exclusively
thereto. It would be absurd to expect a
Labor Government to continue that system.
It is not easy to see how any other Gov-
ernment could justify it.
$
King Philip of England.
The Cobdenite attitude is that, since Free-
trade was beautiful when Britain was the
world’s workshop and only wanted cheap
raw materials so that it could manufacture
for the globe in general, the thing must be
still beautiful when rival workshops have
sprung up and shoot £318,000,000 worth of
their finished goods into Britain in a year
(figures for 1928) to compete with J. Bull in
his own market—the same J. Bull who once
held it his mission to supply finished goods
to everybody and to buy them from no-
body. Having made the mistake of his class in
considering Freetrade as an immutable law
instead of a business expedient, Philip of
England has got into the same category as
his stupid and antiquated royal brother of
Spain, and become a bigot.
At the same time his Budget shows him
a bigot in difficulties. He can’t dispense
with heresy right off, because heresy is too
profitable in various ways, and he can’t do
what he says is the right thing in a hurry
lest the right thing should burst.
So the Snowden tariff is a mixed busi-
ness. Certain protective duties which were
put on for a period by way of trial are
not to be renewed, but their finish isn’t to
be expedited, for both the wages of sin in
the shape of Customs revenue and the
stimulus to industry are valuable. A num-
ber of permanent protective duties are to
be abolished at some date not fixed. No-
thing seems to be really abolished, but
various tradqs which were looking up
through tariff assistance have been told that
a death sentence has been passed on them,
so they are expected to wilt. The lace
industry, which is under a definite and
short-dated sentence, and which is the chief
support of Nottingham, is likely to order
its funeral early. A few long-protected
industries, especially sugar-refining, haven’t
apparently received notice in any shape.
The fact that sugar-refining lives on Pro-
tection has been winked at so long that
it has almost a vested interest in the wink.
The finances have gone wrong in a general
way, one possible reason being that no
one was certain how far and how hard
Philip would bash heresy in the course of
his pious endeavors. Income fell, and
expenditure rose, and lack of employment
increased. The result is an urgent neces-
sity for £42,000,000 of new taxation, and
it must, as a matter of common decency, be
put on where it won’t create new indus-
tries or foster old ones. If Philip had been
the whole-hog fanatic that his old name-
sake was, no one can guess what the posi-
tion would now be like; but even as a
quarter-hog or leg-of-pork fanatic he has
made plenty of trouble for himself and
others.
The battle of Lissa has been described,
with partial accuracy, as the occasion when
the last wooden navy went out to fight the
first iron one. What victory there was
went to the wooden outfit, but, all the
same, timber fleets ceased going to war.
It was a kind of final effort. Possibly the
timber ship Freetrade is also making its
last display.
♦
The Dangers of Disunity.
Last Friday’s celebrations emphasised the
biggest handicap that Australia is carrying
just now—namely, organised disunity. The
A.I.F. functioned successfully because its
leaders worked together for a single purpose.
Our political generals are facing, in the
adverse exchange rate, an enemy that has
brought one European nation after another
to its knees since the war, and that is still
keeping countries like Austria and Russia
in subjection. But they are so occupied
battling for their own hands that they don’t
dream of combining against the common
foe.
If the Bavin Government, say, made a
success of its efforts to open the northern
mines and turn the railway service into a
paying proposition, the Lang faction would
have less hope of getting office. So every
move made by the Bavin brigade with the
obviously honest intention of benefiting
the whole of the people, and to that extent,
repelling the natioiia.l enemy, is condemned
by the Lang brigade as a. conspiracy.
There isn’t even unity in the rival units.
W. M. Hughes is now at work splitting
Nationalism. Every elector in his senses
knows why; the Nationalists will never give
him another high command. Lang and his
henchmen are obstructing the Scullidores,
not in the interests of Australia, but because
it is good political business. The Sculli-
dores promised themselves into office four
months ago, and Mr. Lang means to promise
himseli into office at the end of this year.
Success will depend on his ability to satisfy
the rank and file that he is the only true-
blue miracle-worker in the movement.
A modern nation is no different from an
army; unless it can pull together in time
of danger it is liable to suffer terribly in
casualties and prestige.


Ifiß (QxltfaxC.f&urU no fflancC < &a/i6on
SHELL OIL
POLITICAL
POINTS
The offer of a £10,000,060 local loan is
announced, and it should be a success, though
neither this nor any other local paper
loan will do anything to meet the big
problems in London and New York. At the
end of March N. S. Wales alone owed
£5,000,000 of gold as a bank overdraft in
England. The Commonwealth and the States
will divide the 10 millions of paper, and it
will ease the position—but not very much.
New Westralian Premier Mitchell under-
took that if he were returned to power he
would abolish unemployment. He has begun
by warning outsiders not to come to his State
in search of work or to expect sustenance if
they can’t find it. This somehow recalls
the ASsop’s fable about the man who wagered
that he would drink up the sea. When
the other party to the contract and the stake-
holders had assembled on the shore to see
him do it, he coolly insisted that the rivers
must be plugged up first. It having been
conceded that this was impossible, all bets
were declared off.
Unless high-pressure lobbying by the op-
posing forces —church organisations and
McShortodds —tells, the Tote Bill will just
about get through the Yic. Uppish House.
Good majorities marked the progress of the
bill through the Assembly; the final test
The Old Finn.
vote was carried by slightly more than two
to one, whereas there were only two votes
to the good in 1927. The adverse majority
in the Council that year was seven (19 to
12) ; but the personnel of the House has
changed since, and so have the opinions of
some of the then opponents.
There has been a reduction of 3s. 6d. a
week in the Federal basic wage, and, hard
as this may be, it is difficult to see how
it 'could be avoided till the new tariff and
other influences get industry back into its
stride. The wage which was nine bushels
of wheat in 1920-21 is eighteen bushels now
—and that makes a difference.
Hobart City Council has scrapped its
ancient method of choosing the Mayor by
aldermanic vote, in favor of election by the
ratepayers, as in Perth. But candidates
are to be restricted in Hobart to persons
who have served as aldermen for at least
two years. In Perth any ratepayer can
stand for Mayor.
Bribery scandals are a feature of politics
in Japan ; the latest is that a Minister of
State pocketed 20,000 yen for inducing the
Government to buy a bankrupt railway. The
Minseito got into power through exposing
the corruption of the Seiyukai. The Seiyu-
kai is now busy obtaining public inquiries
into the transactions of the Minseito.
“Now Isaacs coveted Joseph’s togs, which
were of many colors.” —Scripture revised.
Lazzarini. M.P., alleged at the Sydney
Labor Conference, as an evidence of con-
spiracy against the toilers, that 15,000 notes
of £lOOO each, printed hut never used, wore
lying in the Commonwealth Bank. If mere
notes will do any good there is no reason
why the bank shouldn’t print a million of
them. Unfortunately you can’t make paper
worth more than paper merely by printing
a few figures on it. There must be some-
thing behind the figures. Otherwise, the
most down-and-out Domain dosser’s lOU for
a million would be worth a million.
One of the reasons why Maoriland’s Postal
and Telegraph Department returns handsome
dividends is that it actively touts for busi-
ness. The telephone branch, always profit-
able (the Australian show never is), has been
made more so by a continual cheapening of
rates and the introduction of the monthly
rental system, and the Post Office more than
pays its way, though penny postage was
reverted to years ago. Now there are a
general commercial manager and four dis-
trict business managers, with orders to go
out after business and see that the public
gets satisfactory treatment. Baronet Ward’s
little surplus this year would have been a
deficit but for fhis department’s operations.
The debate as to the merits and demerits
of the Scullidores’ policy of prohibiting non-
essential imports hasn’t got very far as yet;
the embargo won’t work till cargoes already
shipped or in process of shipment when it
started have arrived. However, the Com-
monwealth possesses one great industry
(sugar) in which the competition of
imports has been prohibited long enough
for results to be shown. This is the net
record for 16 years split up conveniently into
four-year periods:—
Paid for Received for
Surplus Imports. Surplus Exports.
1913-17.. £3,136,581 | 1921-25.. £2,485,588
1917-21.. 11,847,995 [ 1925-29.. 16,102,420
Australia won't mind if that sort of thing
happens oftener.
The U.S. Farm Board has just announced
that the area under cotton must be reduced,
and Manchester reports that scores of spin-
ners have sold their machinery at scrap-iron
prices. Yet Minister Forde goes round Aus-
tralia talking nonsense about the dizzy
wealth that his cotton bounties will create.
A gold bonus offers immeasurably greater
possibilities. Queensland would share in
that as well as Westralia—in fact, all the
States would share.
By 20 ,to 7 the Yic. Leg. Council rejected
the Unemployment Insurance Bill, but
tempered the blow by suggesting a joint
select committee of inquiry. The Hogans
have reluctantly agreed.
Some of the technical experts appointed
to carry scientific instruction to the Tas.
farmer have pulled out, and T. H. Atkin-
son, head of the dairy division, has been
notified that his resignation is required by
April 30. Minister Lee has never been an
admirer of the scheme, which was evolved
by Bruce’s Development and Migration
Commission, and it has been unkindly sug-
gested that he is taking care that the tech-
nical experts shall not be too dashed Com-
fortable in Tasmania.
The Egyptian is like the Turk, inasmuch
as he will talk the leg off an iron pot, and,
like the Turk, he makes and swears to agree-
ments and is back next week to ask for
more. What he wants now is the Soudan
in full sovereignty. He held it, or most of
it, precariously for about 63 years, though
he had to hire European officers like Gordon
occasionally to save the situation. About
48 years ago the infuriated natives threw
the Gyppo out, and might have taken Egypt
itself but for European intervention. That
untidy occupation is the only tangible claim
the pashas at Cairo have to own and plunder
old Ethiopia, though it and Egypt mixed
things a good deal in olden times. That was
why Ethiopian armies took the short road
through Egypt to hold military arguments in
Palestine, while the Pharaohs of the day
lay low in the Nile delta and hoped for the
best.
The commercial brass-hats of London,
after collecting information from similar hats
all over the world, report that the countries
with superfluous wheat have 808 million
bushels to sell this year, and that those
which are short want to buy only 600 mil-
lion bushels. The surplus may be more than
appears, for Russia isn’t included among the
sellers, it being an unknown quantity. This
doesn’t promise high prices. The Scullidore
Ministry has issued no estimate as to what
it will cost to guarantee 4s. per bushel at the
farmer’s railway station, but Scullin has
said that the receipt of stacks of letters ask-
ing him to make it ss. proves the idea to be
popular.
The first annual, or presumably annual,
convention of W. M. Hughes’s “Australian
party” met last week. There was first a
discussion as to whether it was a Federal
convention to which State conventions are
subject, or a N.S.W. convention subject to
a larger Federal gathering when there is
one. Hughes ruled that it was Federal and
boss, he being at the head of it. A presi-
dent (Hughes), deputy-president and secre-
tary were appointed. A committee was
created to draft an “economic and industrial
policy,” and if its draft is accepted the party
will begin to know why it exists. It seems
a pity this wasn’t done earlier, for an insur-
rection which doesn’t know till far on in
the campaign what it is insurrecting about
is apt to run short of vim and also of pro-
visions; One member hinted at wire-pulling
in the choice of officers, and a second mem-
ber expressed a desire to knock a third mem-
ber down. Hughes ruled the first member
out of order. A motion that Hughes should
himself be ruled out was defeated.
The Chief Censor’s denunciation of the
talkies —their voice production, he says, is
“Attababy! Another six million dahlars
from them Australian guys!”
worse than their vice production, and they
can’t get away from the subject of an actress
undressing—should be read in conjunction
with the report of a cinema-theatre co.’s
annual meeting. At this the managing direc-
tor, after the familiar wail about “the crush-
ing burdens laid on the ‘industry,’ ” acknow-
ledged that “£1,123,200 had been sent out
of Australia for films during 1929”—a year
in which comparatively few theatres were
given over to talkies. When the silent film
was shpreme, and every theatre had an
orchestra, the gentleman’s estimate of the
annual tribute to Hollywood was £BOO,OOO.
Why is this “industry” exempt from the
measures against excessive imports?
The arrogance of civil-service organisa-
tions, now so sinister a feature of our poli-
tics, dates from 1922, in which year Hughes
introduced a Commonwealth superannua-
tion measure, to take effect from 1920, and
asked the House of Reps, to pass it imme-
diately as “the civil servants demand it”
and a general election was near. Ex-Pre-
mier Collier was presented with the now-
familiar ultimatum just before the West
ralian election. He returned a spirit^
answer and suffered for his attitud , t
Butler in South Aus Many civil servants
do not approve of these stand-an 1
tactics, but unless they effectually j
the gentlemen who employ them th■ S .
body of taxpayers will assuredly be Jja®
into segregating the Government-employee vote.
Forde, Fenton’s substitute at the Customs,
is giving bad examples of the excessive zeal
against which Talleyrand warned young
Ministers. He embar-
“I’ll HAVE to muzzle him.”
passed his Government
and did the cause of Pro-
tection no good by assert-
ing that the mild little
November tariff revision
had “found employment
for 50,000 workers,
which in the circum-
stances was im-
possible. And
at Brisbane last
week be fool-
ishly said that
“the emergency
50 p.c. tariff
and the import
prohibitions
were temporary
measures to meet
a special need,
and would be
r e m o ved....
p o s s i bly.
in 12 or 18
months.” The Priminister had just before
told the Labor conference in Melbourne that
“by shutting down on a large percentage of
imports industries can be established which
will be a permanent solution of the (unem-
ployment) problem.” Scullin will have to
take his exuberant junior in hand.
The Sydney A.L.P. Labor Conference
decided unanimously that the Federal Gov-
ernment “should make credits available to
all local governing bodies and public trusts
to enable these bodies to undertake reproduc-
tive or urgent public works.” Where the
credits, which need to be backed by cash, can
be found, or where the reproductive works
can be found is the problem. In the course
of debate it was alleged that the Scullidore
policy of reducing imports to provide manu-
facturing employment and avert bankruptcy
was a base capitalistic device, and that the
200,000 unemployed should instead be paid
the basic wage. The Red Flagger’s hatred
of the Australian manufacturer, as compared
with his tolerance of the rich foreign im-
porter, amounts to a skin disease.
A preliminary batch of returning pas-
sengers has arrived bathed in woe owing to
losses incurred while selling Australian notes
at odd places, and this is blamed on “the
restrictions imposed by the Commonwealth
Government.” The inscription on every note
says it is payable in gold at the head office
of the Commonwealth Bank, which is here
and not all over the world, but economical
passengers took “large quantities” of the
paper with them to save the price of a draft,
and trusted to luck. The Federal Govern-
ment naturally put in the plug. Its bank
hasn’t much gold in London, and the pos-
sibility of a shipload of rich globe-trotters
dropping in with notes, and expecting to
collect perhaps 100,000 sovereigns any day,
without notice and without any legal right,
was too much. When the matter was first
mentioned in Parliament, Hughes declared
feverishly that Australian notes should be
redeemed in hard money anywhere. Scullin,
having only small change about him, had to
borrow a note from Theodore that he might
read the inscription to Bill and show him
what the position really is.
Arthur Griffith, expelled from the N.S.W.
Labor party for advocating compulsory mili-
tary service, was reinstated at the A.L.P.
Conference. Then some of the country dele-
gates went homeland the implacables, whose
capacity for “victimising” those they dislike
(or fear) passes all decency, ejected him
again. Griffith based his appeal on the ground
that he thought compulsion desirable and
necessary 14 years ago, but events had proved
him wrong, and he was willing to admit it.
The Bolshevist Garden urged re-expulsion
practically on the ground that. Griffith should
have grovelled more by admitting that his
support of compulsion had no redeeming
feature, and was premeditated sin. Griffith
would do better to say squarely that com-
pulsory service was the right thing even if
Australia raised an army without it. Aus-
tralia was the only Dominion which failed to
make the defence of civilisation at a world
crisis a sacred obligation, as much as pay-
ing taxes, and more than membership of a
union. If going to the war had been the
common obligation it would be impossible for
Red objectionables to point the finger of
scorn at Australia’s soldiers as men with a
love for butchery. Compulsion would have
helped to purify the home atmosphere, and
if the army hadn’t been quite so good if
made of mixed material it would still have
been good enough.
THE LOST LEADER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It mattered not who governed this country so
long as it was governed well; therefore his party
would support good government wherever it found
it.”—lF. M. Hughes.
It matters not a hoot in Hell
Who runs this vast dominion,
Provided that he does it well
(That is, in my opinion).
The Ideal Chief will always have
Our tiny band behind him
(And rest assured I’ll help you out
Whenever there intrudes a doubt
Concerning where to find him)
For hardly one in ten succeeds.
One cannot think but sadly
Of Bartons, Deakins, Cooks and Reids
Who bossed the show so badly.
Chris Watson, too, and Andy F.,
My commandants successive,
They did their little best for sure,
But their abilities were poor,
Their methods unimpressive.
He governed ill, did Stanley Bruce,
Wherefore his track I got on,
And lent a hand to cook his goose,
And put his lordly pot on.
Though Parliament’ry cut-and-thrust
At present there’s a lull in,
Profoundly sceptical as yet
He’ll reach the standard that I set,
I keep my eye on Scullin.
It matters not who runs the land
And rules the roost, provided
He does it well (you understand
That simply means like I did).
One such as that will always have
Our little lot behind him
(And when you’ve further gone and fared
Worse, just recall I’m still prepared
To tell you where to find him).
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“J.H.P.”: Another recent wedding of a
unique sort. The motor-vessel Koolinda,
bound from Darwin to Fremantle, anchored
off Cossack. Tourists hung over the side,
interested in the lugger drawing near with
passengers, mails and cargo (mostly empty
beer-bottles) —it meets all incoming boats.
The lugger drew alongside aft, and a large
basket scooped up half a dozen people from
the bobbing craft and deposited them on tbe
Koolinda’s high deck. Among them were two
pretty girls and their escorts. The girls
were greeted by a parson who was travelling
down the coast and were hurried below, fol-
lowed more leisurely by their gallants. Ten
minutes later they reappeared (mails and
cargo having meanwhile been transhipped),
and a couple dashed for the basket hanging
ready. They were lifted up and dropped over
the side to the waiting lugger, but not before
the Koolinda passengers had covered them
with rice got from the chief steward. There
HE’D HAD PLENTY OF PRACTICE.
“But if you cut off my allowance, how am I going to live, Dad?”
“Try literature. God knows all the time you’ve been at college you’ve done nothing
but write for money.”
being no clergyman at Cossack, they had
arranged with our parson by wireless to per-
form the ceremony in his cabin. The
Koolinda was at Cossack no more than 20
minutes.
❖ ❖ H* *
“Nero”: I saw men die in many ways
during the war, but the saddest death (or
the nicest, according as you look at it) was
that of my 18-year-old batman in Mesopo-
tamia, already at that age a veteran of the
Gallipoli landing. We were lying in the
open under rifle fire at 800 yards. My
water bottle was empty. The batman was
asleep behind his little mound thrown up by
his entrenching tool. Rather than wake the
lad I scuttled across to the Tigris, 400
yards away, filled the bottle and returned,
A few minutes later I again called the bat-
man. No answer. My company sergeant
went across to him, and was about to arouse
him, when I said I didn’t want to wake
the tired-out kid. The sergeant looked at
him intently. “Dead!” he said. “Drilled
through the skull.” And so he was. Just
the neatest little puncture, so instantaneous
that he had not stirred. In his pocket was
a copy of “Pickwick Papers” he had bor-
rowed from me. I let it stay there, and it
was buried with him.
❖ * * *
“Pawang”: The blood-transfusion service
established by the Vic. lied Cross has
already demonstrated its value. The victim
of a motor accident was in urgent need of
vital fluid, and a voluntary member was in
attendance within five minutes. The supply
he was able to give was found insufficient
and without any delay whatever a second
member stepped into the firing-line.
* * * *
“Mudurup”: Westralia can generally be
relied on to put some out-of-the-way can-
didates into the electoral arena*; a gentleman
who punctuates his appeals for votes by
cracking a stockwhip and indulging in other
strange antics has enlivened Perth at the
last three elections. Some years a*go another
eccentric, a voluble mob orator of the period,
“stood,” so to speak, from behind prison
bars; that he was incarcerated between
nomination and polling days, to the interrup-
tion of his vocal campaign. It wasn’t for a
political or industrial offence, either —that
sort of imprisonment has often proved a
genuine stepping-stone to Parliament —but
for some breach of municipal by-laws con-
nected with his profession, which combined
the vending of peanuts with virulent
attacks on most existing institutions.
Although he lost his deposit, handicapped as
he was, he didn’t bottom the poll; that
distinction was reserved for a free man.
* * * *
“Hamer” : The removal of traffic standards
has been added to the pranks of midnight
revellers. The Sydney authorities morosely
report that 30 have disappeared without leav-
ing a trace, while many othei’s have been
recovered from most inappropriate quarters.
A “No Parking” standard was found orna-
menting the garden of a suburban parson ;
and one, advising that the place was a
“Safety Zone,” was left on the steps of a
city church. Another pastime of the be-
nighted is to carry away garbage-tins. I
met a band of roysterers thus engaged in
Castlereagh-street. Leaving their cargo for
a minute or two they asked me to picture
what the caretakers would look like in the
morning on finding garbage-tins that were
complete strangers on their doorsteps whilst
their own possessions had wandered far
down the street. I felt sorry for the care-
takers, a persecuted race, but had to grin at.
the spectacle of those sozzled idiots stag-
gering up and down the street with their
grimy burdens on their shoulders.
* * * *
“Sol Malaprop”; The ease of Podmore,
who is said to have butchered Messiter, has
created a furore in England among the anti-
capital punishment people, and a lot is being
said on both sides. A considerable number
declare that Podmore was convicted on in-
sufficient evidence, while the most highly
placed legal authorities say the evidence was
sufficient with a margin of 25 per cent, or
more to spare. A Judge brought a deal of
execration into the business by stating his
belief that innocent persons are never
hanged. He alluded, of course, only to receut
times. Not so very long ago English laAv
didn’t compel the defendant’s witnesses co
attend, and they often kept away to save
themselves trouble. Also if the mob took
a hostile interest in the case, even a willing
witness might not appear through being
turned back outside the court by parties
armed with sticks. But as regards the present
day the Judge was probably right. Ten recent
years’ figures show that 254 persons were
convicted in Australia for murder or at-
tempted murder. The number of these who
escaped hanging was 238. Some of them had
their commuted sentences so promptly re-
commuted through political influence that
they were set free more than once in the
decade. It is a standing argument that
execution has the disadvantage of being irre-
vocable, therefore it should be carried out
with so much precaution that it will never
happen at all. But imprisonment for life,
if carried out, is irrevocable also. The same
remark applies to death generally.
* * * ‘ *
“F.S.” : The Customs people recently dis-
covered a new method of concealing opium
on a steamer. The searcher, passing along
the shaft-tunnel, noticed 1 two large pipe's
securely bolted and apparently part of the
machinery. He happened to be an ex-engi-
neer, however, and his expert eye immedi-
ately told him that the pipes performed no
function. He had them flooded with water,
but the through connection was all right!
He then went to the owners and borrowed
the original plans of the vessel. The pipes
were not marked on them. It wms decided
to let the ship go without remark and wait
for her return. When that happened the
pipes were unbolted and were found to be
in two compartments, one capable of carry-
ing water and the other stuffed with chandu.
How such a large structural alteration came
to be made in the ship without the owners
knowing remains a mystery, but it is sur-
mised that Celestial members of the crew
induced the dockyard workers to do it when
the ship was building in China. Even the
engineers were unaware of the bogus nature
of the machinery.
THE MAN WHO HELPED TO KEEP THE
HOSPITAL GOING.
GIRL COLLECTOR: “Will you buy a hospital button, please?”
MOTORIST: “No, thank you. I assist the hospitals regularly.”
GIRL : “Oh, yes, but it costs money to repair the patients.”
“ Jonop” : She was large and expensive-look-
ing, and clambered on to the tram breathless.
“How much is it?” she asked the conductor,
fumbling in her bag. “You see,” she ex-
plained, offering a ten-shilling note for a
tuppenny fare, “I don’t usually travel on
trams; we have our own car. I haven’t
been on a tram for three years.” The con-
ductor seemed impressed. “The soopirinten-
dent was only wonderin’ this mornin’ what
’ad become of you,” he said.
* * * *
“Jos”: A country visitor to Melbourne
during Easter put up at our Richmond
boarding-house. As a rule, he retired early,
so working late one night in the kitchen I
was surprised when he walked in with the
water-jug from his toilet-set and asked for
leave to fill it. Within five minutes he went
through the performance again. A third
time he arrived with the empty jug. “Any
more water, please?” he asked quite casually.
“What on earth do you want it for?” I
countered. “Aw% nothin’. Missus, nothin’,”
he replied soothingly. “It’s jist that me
room’s on fire.”
* He * *
“Officer”: My experience suggests that
cowardice in battle is more often a case for
the nerve specialist than for a firing party.
In 1916 I was gunlayer on a gun which was
blown up—shell under the muzzle. I came
out undamaged except for the buffeting ;
but when our guns opened that night
my nerves (for the first and last
time in action) gave way. For a time
I was unable to speak or move, artd
feigned sleep in order to avoid dis-
covery. Luckily our gun was out of
action, and I was an Aussie; if it
had been a Tommy outfit and we had
received an order then, I might have
figured in a court-martial and a shoot-
ing. In 1917-18 we had a signaller
who had served through Gallipoli. On
occasions when danger threatened he
would bolt, but he would return when
shelling w r as heaviest and go on with
the job—mending wires, etc. “You
all think I’m a coward,” he said one
day when we were observing forward;
“but really it’s something in me that
snaps. I’ll stick in the line until I
beat it or am knocked.” Knocked lie
was at last, and his epitaph should
read “A Valiant Soldier” ; but under
British Army Regs, he would probably
have faced a firing squad. His place
was back in Australia demobilised or at
Horseferry-road. Still, doctors in the field
couldn’t be nerve specialists.
* * * *
“Penfield” : You can get all sorts of speci-
alists in a big city. One came to our place
the other day and introduced himself as a
testimonial expert; he was ready to under-
take to procure a testimonial for something
from everybody. He wasn’t making bets
that he could wring a testimonial about any-
thing from anybody; the art was in going to
the right person—and there always was a
right person. And of course you mustn’t
expect that every testimonial would be in
the old crude form—like “Twenty years ago
I used your soap, since when I have used
no other.” A testimonial needn’t be written :
it might be spoken. It might even be photo-
graphed. And at that point our resourceful
friend produced the story of Jay Gould, who,
wanting to establish a young man’s credit,
linked arms with him and walked down
Wall-street. Of course the expert newly come
to us was an American; and now I guess
I know why he left home. The U.S. Federal
Trade Commission has just dropped like a
herd of elephants on the testimonial adver-
tisement. It has banned testimonials from
persons who have not used the goods for
which the good word is said; also it has
banned the paid-for testimonial unless the
fact of payment having been made is adver-
tised “in an equally conspicuous manner.”
Heaven only knows what business, robbery,
etc., is coming to. A man can get hardly a
wink of sleep these days, so busy is he think-
ing up new jazz-steps to keep ahead of the
lumbering law.
* * :i: *
“Whitehall”: It is unlikely that the Mac-
Donald Government will look for trouble by
appointing a Laureate. Even the arrogant
Salisbury waited for four years after the
death of Tennyson before he tossed the job
to Alfred Austin for services rendered as a
Tory leader-writer. This meaningless £27
p.a. appointment inspires more ill-feeling
than any other. “Punch,” usually so amiable,
published an offensive cartoon on the subject
when the Austin appointment was mooted —
but Burnand, then editor of “Punch,” and
Austin were old enemies. For two centuries or
more Laureates have faced the same dilemma.
If they try to do what they are paid for, the
stuff is damned as rubbish ( e.g ., Tenny-
son’s verses about Royalty and Austin’s about
the Jameson raid), and if they don’t they
are accused bitterly and persistently, as
Bridges was by the “Daily Mail,” of loafing
on the job. There is no candidate in sight
whose appointment would fail to arouse a
storm of rage. Kipling, for example, is
hated by the Irish. Watson is no more
eligible than he was in the ’nineties —and he
is now 72. And if Noyes or Masefield was
chosen there would be a combined howd from
the Iviplingites and Watsonites. The Laure-
atesliip seems destined to go the way of the
office of King’s Fool, which was killed by
jealousy amongst professional jesters and
their supporters.
* • % * $
“Sixenate”: A story that would make a
chapter in a novel with a stereotyped villain
and a duped and persecuted hero has been
unfolded at Inverell (N.S.W.). The hero
was a good young man of obliging disposi-
tion who had taken a job in a timber-mill,
from which the villain had been sacked.
Darkly the villain plotted for his revenge,
aha ! He went to a grazier who had been
losing sheep and said he could produce
evidence that would entitle him to the reward
offered, £2OO. Arranging to meet the grazier
and policemen in one of the station paddocks
at night, he induced the hero to accompany
him, suggested the slaughter of a sheep, did
the job himself and dumped the slain sheep
into his own buggy. Then, asking the unsus-
pecting youth to wait awhile, he stole through
the night to bring the watchers to the scene
and hand his dupe over to them. Whether
a virchewus lierowliine came into the matter
or not, the plot went astray. The hero was
merely bound over to be of good behavior;
the villain has gone to gaol.
S J» *!*
“Chancery Lane”: In the St. Kilda (Vic.)
Police Court recently a woman witness was
asked by counsel for the other side whether
she had called his client “a dirty Dago.”
“I did not,” was the indignant reply. “1
don’t know what her religion is.”
* * * *
“Tuart”: Finding fault with the new
City Hall has become a popular pastime in
Brisbane, but it was reserved for Sydney’s
Arundel Orchard and Melbourne's FritA
Hart to give the acoustic properties
(good old acoustic properties !) a series of
knocks. Arundel and Fritz were engaged
to adjudicate on the Queensland Eisteddfod
competitions. Quite early in the proceed-
ings the Sydney Con. chap discovered that
“it doesn’t pay to sing rapidly in this hall;
if you do,” he warned the choirs, “the sound
is blurred.” And w T hen it w r as all over both
gentlemen complained that it was impossible
to make themselves heard in every part of
the hall; “Mick Kirwan, the member,” Fritz
said, “might do that, but no one else could.”
Still there was no difficulty in understanding
the utterances of about 50 per cent, of the
audience when the two eminent visitors
awarded first prize for the chief event to
the southern Choral Society from Melbourne.
There were full-throated shouts of “Rob-
bery!” “Stewards!” “Maryborough won by
a mile!” “Ipswich has been swindled!” and
the like, enunciation being perfect. Dissatis-
fied choristers and their friends stormed up,
and for a time it seemed likely that the
general noise would be added to by the
sound of adjudicators being chucked from
the platform. Some of the critics hung
round testing the acoustic properties till one
o’clock in the morning.
“ROLL ’EM OVER, JOSIE!”
A CHANTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Down beside the Liverpool Docks
(Roll ’em over, Josie!)
I’d got no shirt, an’ I’d got no socks
(So long, Don Josie!).
I’d nowt to drink, an’ I’d nowt to eat,
An’ the soles was nigh worn off my feet,
So I stowed on one o’ the Pinchgut fleet
(Come along, Don Josie!),.
We crossed the Pond to Boston Town
(Heave ’em up, Josie!).
They paid me off with half a crown
(To-m e-way, Don Josie!).
A South-sea whaler got me then,
For two years out, and home again,
An’ all I saved was two-pun’-ten
(So -long, Don Josie!).
“A sailor’s life’s the life for me!”
(Hell’s bells! Josie!)
It’s only fools that goes to sea
(Come along, Don Josie!).
I joined a tramp from Birkenhead,
And lived on pork an’ lousy bread,
An’ sometimes wished that I was dead
(BuckaZonp, Don Josie!).
If I could save a hundred pound
(Haul ’em out, Josie!)
I’d sail once more on a Homeward-Bound
(Carry-on, Don Josie!).
I’d buy a pub, an’ settle down
Witli a wife an’ kids in Kentish Town,
An’ all the ships could go an’ drown!
(Belay! Don Josie i)
S.A.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.


“Feng-Shui”: After 32 years J. Bull is
returning Wei-hai-wei to China. He took it
as an insurance when Germamy grabbed
Tsingtao and Russia, France and others
were reaching out for other sections, but
never fortified it. The Old Man found the
place a poverty-stricken collection of fishing
villages and is leaving it a< model area, with
beautiful roads and thriving industries. R. F.
Johnstone, a brilliant anthropologist, was its
administrator at one time and wrote some
entrancing books about it. When lie wanted
fresh material the British official disappeared
and a Chinese coolie slouched out of the
city, on one occasion to turn up in Tibet.
Under the Washington Treaty, Wei-hai was
to have been given back to its owners eight
years ago, but there was difficulty in locating
them.
* * * *
“Bildad”: Mrs. A. McPherson, the lady
who sells religion wholesale at Los Angeles
(U.S.A.), is in Palestine with about five
dozen disciples, and is making life busy for
the authorities. The pilgrims parade the
streets of Jerusalem and other towns clad
is what is described as “Biblical costume,”
visit the holy places, and go swimming ax
masse in the Jordan. Their processions and
their accent and their attire attract the
VINDICTIVE.
CHIEF WARDERr: “No. 707 persists in calling 'Pansy: Put him on bread and water!”
SUBORDINATE: “He is already on bread and water, sir!”
CHIEF WARDER: “Then let him remain that way and give him a cookery book to read!”
Arabs in crowds, and when the Arab gets
in crowds around the Christian lie is always
liable to become excited and throw things. The
lady claims to have been once kidnapped in
Mexico. Lest she should embark in more
international complications she is guarded by
police, and has been notified that her stay,
in a professional capacity, must be short,
the strain being too terrible. As an ordi-
nary human being Aimee might remain inde-
finitely, but she would die rather than be
ordinary. It might give her a world of
pleasure to write a book about how she was
carried away into various deserts on various
camels, and chained to ancient ruins, and
rescued by cavalry, camelry, artillery,
armored cars, tanks and aeroplanes with her
virtue intact though her body was much
bruised; but British officialdom hates the
idea. The Biblical costume is probably caus-
ing- trouble. Many females must have worn
it from Eve onwards, for Biblical times were
very long and they left off a long time
ago. But the Scripture is short of fashion
notes, and the Hebrews cultivated neither
painting nor sculpture, so little record is
left. It is stated that Joseph wore a coat,
and hopes are entertained that lie wore some-
thing else. Still it is mentioned in the New
Testament that Peter was in the nude till
lie put on his coat arid jumped overboard.
Possibly Mrs. McPherson composed her
Biblical outfit according to her idea of what
Judith should have worn when she killed
Holofernes, with a side glance at the corsets
of Pilate’s wife; anyhow, it is disturbing the
Mohammedan mind.
51= * *
“Piecrust”: Melbourne’s Victoria market
is the place to see the canny Chinaman.
When it comes to cautious spending, John
leaves Jock behind. A grower may swear
that his apples are the
same all the way down,
but it makes no differ-
ence to John, who
methodically prospects
to the bottom, though
it is an unwritten law
in such cases that if he
does not buy he must
re-pack. The peculiar
thing is that if he does
discover topping he
will replace the apples
as he found them, the
rosy checks on top. In
cherry-time the test is
carried further, and the
gutters look as if a pink
hailstorm had visited
the place. Victoria mar-
ket was established in
1878, and when the
Western market is in-
corporated withj it,
Melbourne in this par-
ticular will lead the
world. Eight hundred
growers now use the
Victoria every night,
and 1200 retail stall-
holders take over Ifor
the day, while over a
thousand suburban
greengrocers draw their
supplies from it. On rush days a quarter
of a million cabbages and cauliflowers may
change hands.
* si: * *
“Morita”: It was tlie Q.M.S. of a Tommy
convalescent camp at Boulogne who light-
ened our C.B. job. Stoking the camp’s
incinerator in the depth of winter, with the
wet oozing out of all the available fuel,
was no joke, and Steve was publicly threat-
ened with more C.B. for telling the Q.M.S.
so after putting the acid on him for a load
of kindling. Later the Q.M.S. strolled down
to sympathise. “They’ve sent us a barrel o’
tar to paint the roofs o’ the ’uts with,” he
casually remarked. “Dumped it right out-
side me horfice, and it don’t ’arf bum up,
that stuff!” That was enough for us. For
a week tanks could have trained beneath
our smoke barrages. Everything solid went
into the inferno after a whirl around in the
thick tar. The day supplies ran out and we
were back on the wet tack again there was
a procession along the duckboards, our bene-
factor in the lead and the camp adjutant,
orderly officer and other spare parts in the
rear. We stood at the ’shun to hear of the
loss of army stores, one barrel of roof paint,
and to report whether we’d seen it. When
we looked stupid they nosed amongst the
refuse, and still glared at us with suspicion
after they had drawn a blank. Then w r e
heard what the Q.M.S. said: “Hive ’ad me
lieye on them Horstralians for days, s’s-
pectin’ ’em of pinchin’ the cook’s firewood,
but Hi hain’t seen any tar.” And back the
procession went.
:J: * % %
“Rankled Ted.” : I don’t know much about
the ways of the untutored savage whose skin
is brown, but early in my teaching experience
I learned that anyone who has to rule over
a big mob of white youngsters at the com-
meneing-school ago needs the heart of a
Nero, the ;;*rms of a Hercules and the
devotion to duty of a Casabianca. My first
batch numbered 130. I was expected to drill
into those young and more or less lawless
minds respect for the rules of syntax and
arithmetic, and I had to make a show of
interesting them in such bright purple patches
in history a*s the fact that the Battle of
Hastings occurred in 1066, and the equally
enhancing geographical fact that Berlin is
on the Spree. There were just a few kids
who showed some signs of mental ability to
digest the very unpalatable fare I had to
set before them. The others were just about
as tractable as caged pumas, to which some
of them added the cunning of foxes. For
SACRIFICIAL MEATS.
MAUD: “Doris seems to worship her hubby.
MABEL: “Yes! She sets burnt offerings before him daily.”
a while I commenced the day’s work with a
wholesale series of till I
discovered that the pumas laughed at my
efforts at chastisement, the foxes escaped,
and the poor little brutes who showed signs
of human intelligence were merely bewildered
a«nd cowed by my ferocity. I came to the
conclusion that the expenditure on free
education indulged in by most civilised States
is largely wasted, a*nd sought another occupa-
tion. Six of my foxes are now in a position
to refuse me an overdraft; nine of my pumas
are in Parliament and the brainiest kid of
the bunch, who was particularly good at
drawing and became an engraver, is now in
the middle of a sentence of 14 years’
for forging banknotes.
* * * *
“0.E.W.” : A girl employed in a Katoomba
(N.S.W.) household as maid ate nothing but
bread, butter and cheese for years. When
she took her present job and the eccentricity
became known her mistress insisted on call-
ing in a doctor, who pronounced the girl
physically normal and well nourished. She
stated that she ate cheese because she pre-
ferred it and it agreed with her; she had
even turned down Christmas turkey in favor
of a lump of Cheddar and a half-loaf of
new bread. Yielding to remonstrances, she
now eats a few cooked vegetables, but
swears she’d far rather have cheese.
* s|s #
“Philm”: There is a marine-dealer in
Perth who won’t be collecting bottles all
his days. Brought up on a Friday for a
breach of the regulations, he was ordered
to pay the usual fine; option, a week, lie
spent the week-end in Fremantle gaol. On
Monday morning he paid the fine from a
large wad and commenced peddling again,
satisfied that he had in the most economical
way met the requirements of a law which
made him take out a license and would not
let him work to earn his tucker on Sundays.
:|t * ?. >jt
“Caractacus”: All sorts of traps festoon
ears when families make holiday jaunts by
motor to beach and mountains. At Easter on
the Pittwater (N.S.W.) road one sedanful
consisted of grandma, dad, mum and the
kids (baby was slung in an improvised
hammock from the cross-ties of the hood),
a terrier-dog riding on the running board
and a cockatoo perched on the back of the
front seat. Cocky appeared to be an old
traveller, he was not chained or con-
fined in any way, but perambulated con-
tentedly to and fro across the car as it ate
up the miles. But that equipage was
equalled by one that used to be a pretty
regular week-ender on the same road. Evi-
dently it was dad and mum’s first infant,
and demanded special feeding; anyway when-
ever the little family travelled to the shack
on the Lower Hawkesbury, a goat occupied
the back of the vehicle, with a dog for
company, and a canary in its cage swung
above the queer pair.
:!-.***
“Chloride”: Re-naming of Adelaide streets
is long overdue. They nearly all have two
names, the four “terraces” —North, South,
East and West —excepted; for example
Rundle, Grenfell, Pirie, Flinders, Wakefield,
Angas, Carrington, Halifax and Gilles streets
when intersected by King William-street
become Hindley, Currie, Waymouth, Franklin,
Grote, Gouger, Wright, Sturt and Gilbert
streets respectively. King William-street
goes one worse ; one end of it being called
Peacock-road and the other King William-
road. Perth street nomenclature used to be
equally baffling, but civic authority awoke
a generation ago and decided that one name
wa*s sufficient for one thoroughfare.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Cable editors are not strong
on Chinese history, so when Prince Fritz-
Wilhelm Holm, who died recently, was
credited with having “discovered the famed
Nestoi'ian monument,” the cable was duly
printed in Australian papers. As a matto.r
of fact, the renowned relief of Christianity s
first crusade in Asia was discovered by R.C.
fathers in 1(125, and the text of the inscrip-
tion was published in the same year_by
member of the Society of Jesus. A P ' j
Italian translation appeared in_lo
Dr. Alexander Wylie printed an English ver-
sion in 1854. Prince Fritz-Wilhelmi con
nection with the stone is not qu
respectable. In 1907, as plain Mr. J
von Holm, a journalist, he attempted W
steal the object, and the scared Hovernoi
of the province where it was located
it removed to a museum at his capita . ,
Fritz succeeded in making a replica,
is now lodged in New York. Until the
tablet was discovered, the enormous extent
of the Nestorian Church in Asia was not
suspected, and Roman Catholic missionaries
of the seventeenth century thought they were
bringing the Cross for the first time to China.
* * * *
“Limehouse” : At the Easter Labor corro-
boree in Sydney one comrade referred to the
charges against another as the sort of thing
“one would expect from a number of gossip-
ing fishermen’s Avives.” He meant, of course,
“fishwives” —there is no reason to suppose
that the consorts of fishermen, professional
or amateur, are more addicted to picturesque
loquacity than the helpmates of bricklayers
or chancery barristers or any other class.
But “fishwife,” according to the dictionary,
means, first, “a woman who sells fish” and,
secondly, “an abusive virago,” the vending of
such wares having once been regarded as con-
ducive to the use of strong language and lots
of it. Billingsgate fish-market seems to have
been mainly responsible. It is decorous
enough- nowadays, but invidious meanings die
hard.
* * * *
“Si Ann”: In Malay recently a Chinese
car-driver chased a pedestrian compatriot,
and, after knocking down four other people
and demolishing a shop-front, got his man.
He then jumped out and stabbed the
casualty. A Melbourne case offers a
milder parallel. A motorist tracked an
enemy down, and attempted to run over
him as he was crossing the street to his
front gate. The motive was jealousy. The
Chinese had quarrelled over money matters.
* * * *
“Larry”: Before the House of Commons
Committee which is investigating hanging
in all its aspects, a chaplain, who has seen
nearly a score of men jerked into the next
world gave a curious piece of evidence to
illustrate the consideration with which con-
demned men are treated. He said that in the
prison where he officiated there was a rule
that all clocks should be stopped at midnight
before an execution so that the victim of
the law should be spared the torture of
knowing exactly what period of life remained
to him. I don’t know if the same procedure
is followed in Australia, but, anyhow, it
strikes me as a queer sort of mercy. If a
man is spared mental agony by being kept in
ignorance of the exact hour when he is to
be marched to the drop, wouldn’t it be even
kinder not to notify him of the day until
it arrived? Half the horror of such a death
is in the anticipation, but whether such
horror is lessened by keeping a man unaware
of the number of hours or minutes he has
to live seems problematical.
i): v v H 4
“Hamer” : Roto Roa, the inebriates’ island
near Auckland, was once about the wettest
spot in Maoriland. Naturally there was
perturbation when it was found that the
inhabitants daily showed marked signs of
the complaint of which they were supposed
to be in process of being cured. At that
time the internees were employed, in the
main, in vegetable gardening; and one of
them had erected a still in which spirit was
extracted from turnips. I met the liquor
do-wn on the Waikato, where it was distilled
by a man who had been “cured” on Roto
Roa. H'e confided to me -that the venture
was exceedingly profitable, and, anyhow,
whisky tasted tame to a cove who had
become used to turnip potheen.
:Jc # H*
“Sixenate”: Wife-maintenance cases are
dealt with in tire Children’s Court, Sydney,
and business was never brisker, with that
and the increase in juvenile crime. So many
“wife starvers” have found it impossible to
keep up their payments that 130 cases of
arrears were listed for hearing on a singl l
day. As an offset there have been a good
many reunions, the parties deciding to make
what money they can get go further by-
sliaring it. Such armistices are seldom per-
manent, however. Once the Court has had
to interfere it is usually the finish of matri-
monial harmony. As one lady put it: “A
woman’s so ’ much better off on alimony;
she’s independent of her usband.”
THE GAGE OF CHIVALRY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Airmen are most superstitious. Their most effica-
cious amulet is said to be a silk stocking worn as
a scarf. The stocking must have been worn previ-
ously by a lady and not subsequently been laundered.”
— “Argus.”
Back in those days when dreams were born
And I beside my mother’s knee,
To cheer me when I seemed forlorn
She told me tales of chivalry.
And thus she spoke: “Sir Galahad,
In all his shining armor draped,
Came journeying, with aspect sad,
To where liis loved one’s casement gaped.
‘Fair maid,’ quoth he, ‘for thy sweet sake
I go to face great fuss and fret;
I prithee some small gift to make
To serve me for an amulet.’
And light as any falling leaf
There fluttered down—her handkerchief.”
Such fanes- tales as this I learned;
And when I grew a sturdy lad
One guiding thought within me burned:
To be just like Sir Galahad.
To fight for Truth, to serve my King,
And for some lady’s trifling gift
To set about, unquestioning,
The heavens and the earth to shift.
To rate that trifle more than life
And, shielding it from loathsome grips,
To fight and, falling in the strife,
To press it to my dying lips.
My one ambition was to face
Death for perhaps a scrap of lace.
But here’s an end to dreams of Youth,
Built upon tales that poets penned ;
Here is as sharp an end, forsooth,
As ever did a dream attend.
Those knights of old who glory won,
At castle gates defiant knocking,
I hardly think great deeds had done
For anybody’s dirty stocking.
I used to think that I could slay
Dragons and such, beyond belief,
For some sweet maid, demure or gay,
Who’d tossed me down her handkerchief.
But oh! it makes the bubble burst
To think she might have used it first.
VICTORIA.
COVOT.


Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner &
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive tariff from 13/6
per day, or £4/4/- weekly. Special quotations for
sporting bodies, etc. Situated right opposite Spencer
Street Station ; no taxi fares; railway porter carries
baggage across if necessary. Please write for
detailed tariff card. Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is
sufficient address.
WHAT ABOUT
“Mind and Life from Atom to Man”
By Albert Dawson?
SOME REMARKS FROM THE PRESS.
“Messenger,” Philadelphia, U.S.A.: “A notable book."
The “Bookseller;” London: “Four hundred pages of sound reasoning.”
“United India” Magazine: “This monumental work leaves a deep impression on the mind.”
“Literary Guide,” London: “We have in Mr. Dawson’s book a work which should be epoch
making in its influence upon thought. It explains satisfactorily the phenomena of many things
concerning which valuable time has been repeatedly wasted in useless speculation—Hypnotism,
the fear instinct and panic, personality, genius, ‘Christian Science,’ memory, sleep, dreams,
the braint of the ant, and many other matters are explained in the simplest language.”
“Sydney Morning Herald”: “If Mr. Dawson is right, mind pervades all matter and cannot
exist without it the atom must explain the properties of all more complicated structures.
To that presentation Mr. Dawson brings a keen mind, an intimate acquaintance with metaphysics
and a clear style.”
Sydney “Bulletin”: “In ‘Mind and Life from Atom to Man,’ Albert Dawson has w'ritten a
book which any inquiring mind should find fascinating... .Mr. Dawson’s style is vigorous and
direct, and in presenting his case he steers a middle course between the stilted scientific and
the blatant popular.”
POST FREE, 15/-, TO ANY ADDRESS, FROM
KELVIN DAWSON, TYRINGHAM, N.S.W., AUSTRALIA.
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths •
ii
8a
tlif
3.3
H'U]'
li«
II
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
TARIFF —PER DAY, Room and Meals, 25/-
Room and Breakfast, 15/-
Melbourne Telephone: F 4141.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Three of our six Premiers are natives of
their respective States, viz., Lionel Hill,
Hogan and Mitchell. Of the other three
McPhee was born in Victoria, and Bavin
and Moore in Mhoriland. Mitchell (64)
is the oldest; Hogan (45) the youngest.
Mrs. Sarah Musgrave, of Auburn
(N.S.W.), and her sister, Mrs. Eliza Regan,
of Barmedman (same State), can count up
198 years between them. Their father, John
White, came to Australia in 1828 and pro-
ceeded to establish a family. Sarah was
born in May, 1830; Eliza is two years
younger. Both are still fairly active: Mrs.'*
Musgrave has lately been revising the proofs
of a book of pioneering reminiscences.
The first ex-Rhodes scholar has appeared
in a Westralian Ministry. This is the new
Attorney-General, Thomas Davy, who was
picked for the scholarship in 1909 and re-
turned to Perth as a barrister five years
later. He served in France and India during
the war, and West Perth sent him to Parlia-
ment in 1924. His father was a well-known
Perth medico in his day.
Malcolm Ross, whose exploits in journalism
BISHOP LONG, form-
erly Canon of St. Paul’s
(Melb.), now Bishop of
Newcastle, who is
aboard the Barrabool
on his way to the Lam-
beth Conference.
have geen a legend
of grandeur to
three generations
of M.L. newspaper
men, was 6S when
he died in Wel-
lington the other
day. lie didn’t
look it, and there
was little evidence
that he felt it. A
.forceful, vigorous,
humorous writer
who, in the Tory
interest, supplied
the Shivery Isles
with an entirely
new notion of the
way news ought to
be presented, he
was a reporter
from the beginning
to the end of his
career. His forte
was the dishing up
of news, and he
dished it up in a
way that heaped
large spadefuls of
mould on the grave
of the first Ward
A d m i nistration.
He interpreted the
affairs of the
Dominion for the
London “Times,”
represented the
M.L. newspapers
in the Great War,
and was a mighty
alpinist one of
conquerors of Mt.
Cook. His son
Noel was killed in action in the war, and
the blow hit his father hard.
Old John Barnewell, of Thornton Upper
(Vic.), whose cattle range on the Dargo high
plain and the catchment areas of the Goul-
burn River, is a baronet, the 11th of his line.
He is native born, his parents having arrived
from Ireland in 1839, and kept his 80th birth-
day last month. He succeeded to the title
20 years ago.
Passed out at 85, Robert Bridges, Poet-
Laureate since 1913. He was a scholarly
person who had written a few poems of
unquestionable beauty, though his pipe was
a trifle thin and
reedy, and he
accepted the job
on the understand-
ing that he
wouldn’t have to
churn out odes and
such like for
special occasions,
as his predecessors
were expected to
do. After his ele-
vation his sparing
output almost
ceased. The last
two Laureates
have merely repre-
sented the taste of
the Prime Minister
responsible. Asquith
selected Bridges;
Salisbury, who
took more stock in
chemistry than
poetry, pitchforked
Alfred Austin, a
leader-writer Who
had done the Tory
party some service
and who wrote
mediocre verse,
into the billet, if
it can be called
such. The British
public refused to ;
take Austin seri-
ously after his effu-
sion on the Jame-
so n raid, and
Bridges did little
to restore prestige
to th e ancient
office. It is quite
possible there will
be no more Laure-
ates, unless Ram-
JACK (E. J.) SHEP-
HERD, Labor M.P.
of Adelaide, who is to
be Speaker of the new
Assembly.
say MacDonald insists on exercising his right
of patronage.
Some May birthdays:—
C. H. Book (Vic. Crown Prosecutor), 35, on Ist;
r Senator Major-Gen. Cox, 67, and Brig.-Gen. G. M.
Macarthur Onslow, 55, on 2nd; Justice Rich (High
Court), 67, and Prof. Laby (Melb.), 50, on 3rd;
Have Gordon, M.L.C. (S. Aus.), 65, Prof. McKellar
Stewart (Adel.), 52, and ex-Federal Minister C. L.
Abbott, 44, on 4th; N.S.W. Premier Bavin, 56, on
sth; Vic. former Chief Sec. Prendergast, 76, on 6th;
J- T. Heathershaw (Federal Treasury), 59, on 7th;
G. S. Browne (Melb. Teachers’ Coll.), 40, on Bth;
Prof. A. J. Perkins (S. Aus. Director of Agriculture),
59, on 11th; Canon E. S. Hughes (Melb.), 70, on
12th; Bishop James (St. Arnaud), 53, on 13th;
S. Aus. Premier Lionel Hill, 49, and N.S.W. ex-
Senator Col. Abbott, 61, on 14th; Peter Reidy,
M.H.A. (S. Aus.), 56, on 15th; Chief Justice Blair
(Q.), 59, on 16th; Bishop Langley, of E. Kew,
Vic. (late of Bendigo), 94, Newton Moore (formerly
Premier and Agent-Gen. of W.A.), 60, and poet
Leon Gellert, 38, on 17th; Dr. Chas. A. Fenner
(S. Aus. Education Dept.), 46, and Dr. Percy R.
Cole (Sydney Teachers’ Coll.), 51, on 18th; Dame
Nellie Melba, on 19th; ex-P.M.G. Gibson, 61,' and
F. J. Rae (Director of Melb. Botanic Gardens), 47,
on 20th; Justice Angas Parsons (S. 'Aus.), 68, and
Judge Beeby, 61, on 23rd; Governor Goodwin (Q.),
59, and W. J. Colebatch (S. Aus. Irrigation Com.),
53, on 24th; Jas. R. Fowler, M.A. (Adel, merchant),
65, on 25th; Dr. W. G. Torr (“Old Oxford,’’
Adel.), 77, on 26th; knight Arthur Cocks (Syd.),
68, knight Capt. Fred Waley (Syd.), 70, Brig.-Gen.
W. R. McNicoll, 53, Colonel J. W. Castine (S. Aus.),
84, and ex-S. Aus. Senator Charleston, 82, on 27th;
ex-Chief Justice Cullen, 75, and Judge Backhouse
(N.S.W.), 79, on 28th; ex-Melb. Uni. Prof. R. J.
Berry, 63, on 30th; Q. Senator Foil, 40, Capt. L. S.
Bracegirdle, 49, and J. H. Hammond, K.C., 55, on
31st.
A paragraph has been going the rounds
of the M.L. press to the effect that the
late Lord Balfour was in this country
in 1875. Of course he never was; some-
body must have confused him with his
uncle, Lord Salisbury, who visited these
parts when a young man. Still, Balfour
had an interest in the Dominion. Years ago
he acquired a considerable slice of the Forty
Mile Bush, near Pahiatua, and found it
a remunerative investment. The list of
sheepowners as late as 1929 included “Bal-
four. A. J., Balfour Estate. Pahiatua, 4269
sheep.”
One of Queensland’s oldest practising soli-
citors was Leopold Bernays, who passed out
at Toowoomba (Q.) last week at 74. He
was a son of the Lewis Adolphus Bernays who
was the first Clerk of the State Legislative
Assembly, and an elder brother of the Charles
Bernays who was appointed to the same
billet in 1920 and wrote “Queensland Poli-
tics During Sixty Years (1859-1919)” and
several biographical works.
Isaacs, now Chief Justice, was one of
the brilliant men in the Convention which
framed the Federal Constitution: there are
not many of them left, brilliant or other-
wise. Alfred Deakin could reach the loftiest
heights of oratory, and Barton could be
tremendously effective; but Isaacs could pro-
duce more brilliant flashes than either. The
smaller States were fighting for the equal
representation of all the States in the
Senate. “You ask for a shield and you
grasp a sword!” exclaimed Isaacs, who led
the opposition. Old Graham Berry, who
had been _ included among Victoria’s ten for
old times’ sake, beamed on his nimble young
colleague; but, generally, he wasn’t a very
popular member.
Geoffrey E. Fairfax, senior director of the
“S- M. Herald” since the death of his
brother James until his own death on Sun-
day, steadfastly declined to let his big job
worry him. He kept a close eye on affairs,
but it was a cheerful eye, and the staff
would be the first to vote him the best of
good fellows. He was extraordinarily retir-
ing. When his brother wa<s alive, it was
James who had to do the talking, and an
honorary degree conferred on Geoffrey by
Toronto University in 1920 was never
assumed. That year and later he was chair-
man of the Australian section of the Empire
Press Union, a»nd, while always shunning the
limelight, he personally and financially sup-
ported a dozen or more good causes. He and
James graduated at Balliol, Oxford, rowed
in the college eight and were called together
to the Bar before returning to Australia
a«nd married sisters. None of the remaining
three brothers takes an active part in guiding
the “Herald’s” destiny; that job is in the
hands of young Warwick, son of James, and
he looks like handling it as competently as
any of his predecessors, the original John
included.
S.A.’s champion long-distance political
trier, E T. Craigie, has got his head in
front at last. Growing up in Henry
George’s time, he grabbed a banner with
the strange device “Single Tax,” and has
waved it ever since. He has had 14 shots
at Parliament, and now at last gets into
the Assembly for the scattered western
district of Flinders; he even headed Moseley,
who has sat for that district for 20 years,
and now, at 83, gets another term. Craigie
will be the only “independent” member, in
a house that has 30 Labor, 13 Liberal and
2 C.P.
A link with the earliest days of Port
Denison (Q.) was snapped by the recent
death of Henry Sinclair. His father helped
to put it on the map, and he was the first
white child born there, 70 years ago. Horses
were always his long suit; he was a fine
rider and a shrewd judge.
Arthur Griffith,
Minister for
Works in the Ma
State’s first
Ministry, was last
week taken back
into the A.L.P.
fold after wan-
dering among the
brambles ever
since the party
blew out its
brains over con-
scription. Few
o f those who
were expelled re-
canted ; Griffith
did, and has sat
on the party’s
doorstep ever
since. Had he
been pne of the
horny-handed he
might have been
admitted long
ago; but he was
something of an
aristocrat, and
when the party
first heard of
him 30-odd years
ago was a very
well - groomed
junior master at
Sydney Grammar
School. These
things were appa-
rently remem-
bered against
him; at any rate,
a couple of days
after his read-
mission the con-
ference performed
a somersault and
ordered their ex-
brother to keep
out.
ARTHUR GRIFFITH
as Low saw him.
The new chairman of Adelaide Wool-
brokers’ Association, replacing A. Hors-
ley Chapman, who retires after long
and good service on the National Coun-
cil and elsewhere, is Tom Cheadle, of Ben-
nett and Fisher. He has spent his life
among wool, like his father before him; and
is also notable for having been S.A. golf
champion while still little more than a school-
boy. W. H. Monfries, of Elder, Smith and
Co., will be Clieadle’s co.-delegate from S.A.
to the Nat. Council.
Maggie Papakura, who used to guide
CAPTAIN CHAFFEY,
Chief Sec. of N.S. Wales
who has been a very
busy man during the big
Show.
tourists rou n d
the hottest spots
of Rotorua
(M.L.), which is
perched on the
thinnest part of
the crust of the
habitable earth,
is dead. She had
a fund of good
humor that never
dried up, and the
flash of her splen-
did teeth
was like
sunshine in
a land whose
skies were
mostly
obscured by
clouds of
steam. She
had pro-
posals a-
plenty, and suc-
cumbed to the
209th, w h i ch
emanated from
an English
gentleman wh o
made her Mrs.
Staples Bro w n
and took her to
live among
thicker fogs. She
piloted George R.
and his wife, then
the Duke and
Duchess of York,
round the ther-
mal smells, which
are like rotten
eggs, only worse,
when they looked
in on the Shivery
Isles in 1901. Her tombstone says ‘‘aged
60.”
Westralia has liad half a dozen Parliament-
ary Labor leaders in 30 years. Bobbie
Hastie was the first, a canny little Scot
who went from a dryblowing machine into
the Assembly over the forfeited deposits of
half a dozen other candidates. When a
Labor Government became a possibility,
Hastie retired from the leadership in favor
of Daglish, a former clerk in the Vic. Police
Department. Daglish left the party after its
first brief spell of office, and W. D. Johnson
had a month or two on the bridge. But
he lost his seat, and Tommy Bath, a thor-
oughly amiable doctrinaire, succeeded and
held down the job for four years while the
party was in opposition. Then he grew
tired and stood down for “Happy Jack”
Scaddan, who achieved five years of Pre-
miership out of the distinction. After the
Conscription split in 1917 Collier stepped
into the vacant place—and looks like stick-
ing there for longer than all his predeces-
sors put together.
“Jeames” :
Sir George Clifford, M.L.’s leading racehorse owner,
who died the other day, aged 82, was an offshoot
of one of England’s oldest R.C. families, being a
grandson of the second Baron Clifford of Chudleigli.
His father earned his baronetcy by being a successful
Speaker of the M.L. House of Reps, and by making
a lot of money on the land. A son of the present
baron was Private Sec. to Governor-General Munro-
Ferguson after the war, and another lives in Mel-
bourne. Since tile fifteenth century every male
Clifford had borne the name “Hugh” (they do a
lot of this kind of thing in England where every
true Bridgman, for example, is named “Orlando”)
till the M.L. hart, broke the habit by having his
heir christened “Charles Lewis.” There was nothing
aristocratic about the appearance of deceased, who
was a stocky, red-faced little man with a notable
indifference to the cut of his clothes. But he was
a great judge of sheep and homes.
Two men of the name of Isaacs —-there are
but four in “Who’s Who”—have risen to
the highest legal and administrative eminence
from humble beginnings by the sheer ability
that so often characterises the race. Aus-
tralia’s Isaac Alfred Isaacs, who looks like
becoming the first native-born G.-G., was
pupil-teaching at Beechworth (Vic.) when
lie was 14; it was 11 years later before he
could get his foot on the first rung of the
law ladder. His father ran a little country
tailor’s shop. Rufus Daniel Isaacs, Eng-
land’s Lord Reading, had some early experi-
ences as a cabin-boy before he embarked
on the career that was to make him Chief
Justice of England and subsequently Viceroy
of India. The Australian Isaacs, born in
'55, is five years the older of the two.
Mick Slack, long a Northern Rivers iden-
tity, has gone west at Brisbane. It was he
who put up a world’s record at Ramornie
meatworks by skinning and dressing a bullock
in 4min. 28sec. He was a fine athlete, too.
The tale is still told in the back country of
how lie fought “Baldy” Thompson, then a
professional Queensland middleweight, with
bare knuckles and put his man to sleep.
THE PENITENTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Brother, I see a tiny hand
Grouped round the Trades Hall scraper.
Arrayed in long white sheets they stand,
And lo! there burneth in each man’s hand
A penitential taper.”
“You may see such ever at Eastertide
When the Labor hosts concentre.
Some law they have broken or rule defied.
Till the ban is raised they must stay outside
The haunts that their fellows enter.”
“They are chewing something, one and all.
On that I’ll take my davy.
And ever and aye the hot, tears fall
While some of them ‘Mca Culpa’ call
And others intone ‘Peccavi.’ ”
“They are munching those reckless words of
old
That carried their own grim sentence.
They have found it bitter and hard and cold
Beyond the pale and without the fold.
Uh, theirs is a true repentance.”
“They have sinned and suffered, and borne
enow.
For sure they have earned their pardons
Who kiss the rod and, the knee who bow.”
“Aye, brother, but that depends on how
They stand with the Grants and Gardens.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting l
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Risk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
rjsUr
m Tll.lZIflf k
U\\ •> ,
/*?
a,--
MAY’S
Fertilizer
Spreader
Now is the time
for Top-dressing
and here is the
ideal machine
for the job.
Send for leaflets
or call and
inspect.
AGENTS: ■
Guthridge Ltd.
10 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown.
’Phones: L 2715-16
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company, Limited.
Founded 1886.
Assets .at 31 st December, 1929,
£19,363,198
of which 83% was represented by
Public Securities.
The M.L.C. Charter is constituted to
admit of the issue of policies to meet
the necessities of every class, every age.
every purse. Its range of contracts, is
unsurpassed for diversity and liberality,
and the fulfilment of every contract is
guaranteed by the Company’s capital
and its ever-increasing assurance Funds.
CASH SURPLUS in the Ordinary
Branch for the year 1929, £693,145.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
Head Office: Citizens’ Building, Ca'stlereagh
Street and Martin Place. Sydney. „
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
This Week’s Investment Tip.
“Seeing that so many of the better-class
shares on the Stock Exchange are now at
comparatively low prices, would it be advis-
able to sell out of Government bonds and
buy trading stocks?” a lady asks.
Different people have different circum-
stances to serve; hence an investment quite
suitable for one person would be entirely
unsuitable . for another. But for anyone
wholly or substantially dependent upon the
return from their investments, security of
principal and income are the all-important
considerations. In these circumstances the
“Wild Cat’s” advice is, stay in Government
bonds.
All short-dated Commonwealth issues are
now showing a return of 6 p.c., or a bit
better, if held till maturity; the immediate
returns (interest only) range from p.c. to
6 p.c. There is no other stock on the market
from which an equal return can be had with
less risk. Indeed, the weakness in the
general share section is driving more and
more capital into the safer field of bond
investments, where a firmer tone is now
noticeable.
Chief cause of the recent fall in prices of
Government securities has been the harden-
ing of interest rates, due to a sudden scar-
city of money. And since the demand for
money in the immediate future threatens to
be much stronger than the supply, it may
be a while before interest rates ease.
It isn’t only Government stocks that have
been affected; all stocks are in the same boat
so far as this is concerned. What was a
high return a year ago is a low return now.
Take bank shares for instance. As a group
they reached their top price in April, 1921),
when the average return was approximately
4| p.c.; the average is now over. 1 p.c. more
than that. ' Apart altogether from divi-
dend reductions, there has been a readjust-
ment of prices on the basis of higher yields.
This applies to preference and all other
shares as well.
There is this advantage about low-priced
Government securities: sometime or other
they will be worth par,. This explains the
popularity of the short-dated bond issues.
They will reach par within a few years at
latest.
Traders generally are still readjusting
their businesses to altered conditions. Things
have not yet settled down sufficiently to allow
the market for industrials to become steady;
there are probably individual stocks well
worth attention at present prices, but these
are for investors who can afford to take
risks.
Presently the trading banks will be called
upon to lodge 10 p.c. of their demand liabili-
ties and 5 p.c. of their time liabilities wth
a new Central Reserve Bank. This may
lead to a further reduction of overdraft
limits, and possibly to some forced selling
on the share market. Also, it is uncertain
to what extent, if any, the banks may be
called upon to support new Government
issues in the future.
Bank of Adelaide.
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 69,349 10 p.c. = 50,000 19,349 1 Ka , a rr
Written off premises, £3OOO .. j OB >
1920 .. 87,694 10 p.c. = 50,000 37,694 (
Written off premises, £5OOO .. J ’
1921 .. 93,108 10 p.c. = 62,500 30,608 ( , 7Q
Written off premises, £5OOO .. f 1
1922 .. 92,633 10 p.c. = 62,500 30,133 672,312
Premiums on new shares, £50,000 722,312
1923.. 94.889 10 p.c. = 67,500 27,389 749.701
1924 . . 115,823 10 „ „ 87,500 28,323 778,024
1925.. 117,217 10 „ „ 87,500 29,717 807,741
1926.. 104,733 10 „ „ 87,500 17,233 824,974
Premiums on new shares, £50,000 874,974
1927.. 104,644 10 p.c. = 89,781 14,853 889,827
premiums on new shares, £ 100,000 989,827
1928 .. 128,637 10 p.c. = 115,000 13,637 1,003,464
1929 . . 145,410 10 „ „ 125,000 20,410 1,023,874
1930 . . 138,108 9 „ „ 112,500 25,608 1,049,482
The profit shown was a shade over 11 p.c.
on the £1,250,000 of paid capital compared
with 11.6, 11.1, 11.6 and 11.9 p.c. back to
1926. But conditions have changed vastly,
and the outlook remains uncertain. So, in
order to conserve the co.’s finances, the board
dropped the final distribution to 8 p.c. p.a.,
making 9 p.c. for the year. This is the fifth
Australian bank to cut its div. rate within
the last six months; nevertheless the decision
surprised the market, and the price for the
£5 paid shares fell sharply from £7 ss. to
£0 30s. following the announcement. Allow-
ing for the final div. (45.) the return at the
latter price is G. 3 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis. The visible backing figures out at
£9 3s. lid. per share in net tangibles. Thus
to pay 8 p.c. on capital as it now stands
total funds (capital and reserves combined)
will have to net only 4.3 p.c.; actually they
turned in a trifle over 6 p.c. last year.
That was after the board had set aside
whatever was considered necessary for con-
tingencies, and in the circumstances the
allowance was likely to be more liberal than
usual. Certainly the year’s growth of
£281,880 in advances and the recession of
£72,152 in deposits does not suggest that
earnings, which are derived mainly from the
difference between advance and deposit rates,
and from margins between buying and selling
prices in the exchange market, were any
lighter. Still, there is nothing to indicate
that much has been done in the way of fur-
tively writing down the assets..
The bank’s greatest service to the com-
munity is as a lender. Its chief field is its
home State, and how it has come to the
asistance of clients is seen in the next com-
parison :
1921. 1925. 1929. 1930.
Notes .. £7,306 £6,887 £6,713 £6,670
BiUs, etc. 866,054 463,309 633,075 535,004
Deposits 5,984,597 6,317,889 6,177,592 6,105,440
Liquid
assets.. 3,303,919 3,805,303 2,857,214 2,417,584
Advances 4,689,898 4,436,196 5,949,107 6,230,987
Premises
etc. 162,569 273,076 347,434 348,025
The drop in deposit figures reflects the gener-
ally-duller conditions; about 68 p.c. of the
total is interest bearing. Advances mounted
to 102 p.c. of the deposits as against 81.3 p.c.
three years ago. That is the first time since
the big drought early in this century that
borrowers have won the race; lienee the lift-
ing of overdraft and deposit rates.
During the year liquids were drawn upon
for £439,620 net
1922. 1929. 1930
Coin and bullion £290,005 £251,967 £79,712
Aus. notes .. 1,130,789 654,305 804,180
Government securi-
ties, etc. .. 1,912,659 817,194 649,934
° banks ° th ? r . 122,859 185,112 126,697
6 * *7. 260,000 —• 125,000
Remittances in
transit.. . • 370,817 948,625 632,061
£4,087,129 £2,857,204 £2,417,584
Thud at the close of last accounts 36.3 p.c.
of the total liabilities to the public was held
liquid as against 41.8 p.c. a year earlier. The
drop in the bullion figures and the increase
in the note holding is due to the mobilisation
of gold reserves. There was little change
in the ratio of cash to deposits, which was
14.3 p.c. The bank was holding only £2 17s.
lOd. of the public’s money for every pound
of its own funds, and that is a very strong
position.
More deposits are obviously needed, but the
Government threatens to mop up most of the
available cash within the next 12 months,
so it. may be a while before interest rates
are reduced. Meanwhile the bank’s earnings
will depend upon the way in which it keeps
its funds employed. There will not be such
rich pickings in the exchange business as
formerly.
Arthur Rickard Extended (Sydney).
, Dividends
Prefs. To Re- Re-
Proflt. 71 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1919.. 23,640 10,154 6 p.c. = 9,000 4,486 15,462
Subsidiary cos.’ reserves, £19,944 .. 35,406
1920.. 43,467 12,281 7J p.<?.=11,250 19,936 55,342
1921.. 39,073 14,582 8 „ „ 12,000 12,491 67,833
1922. . 34,264 14,781 8 p.c. = 12,000 7,483 75,316
Subsidiary cos.’ assets written up
and bonus shares issued .. 37,428 112,744
Transferred to capital, £50,000 .. 62,744
8 p.c.
1923.. 38,849 19,169 8 p.c. = 12,000 7,680 70,424
1924.. 34,007 20,642 6 „ „ 12,000 1,275 71,699
1925.. 34,499 22,339 6„ „ 12,000 160 71,859
Subsidiary cos.’ reserves £5OOO .. 76,859
1926.. 40,842 .24,000 6 p.c. = 12,000 4,842 81,701
Transferred to capital, £50,000 .. 31,701
Subsidiaries’ reserves, £5658 ... 37,359
1927.. 42,002 26,233* 5 p.c. = 11,641 4,128 41,487
1928.. 33,698 31,407* Nil 2,291 43,778
1929. . 31,720 32,500* Nil 42,998
* Includes 8$ p.c. on 3rd prefs.
Since this holding co. was formed in 1914
it has got in £327,486 of pref. money and
scattered £lOO,OOO of bonus scrip amongst
the ords., making paid capital £650,000 in
100.000 first and 200,000 second 8 p.c. cum.
prefs., 100.000 third 8i p.c. cum. par. prefs.
and 250,000 ords. at Dec. 31. The whole of
its own funds and £23,141 of deposits are
invested in three subsidiaries in which the
co. holds the following share interests: — :
Amount held
Paid by A.R.
Capital. Extended.
Arthur Rickard and Co., Ltd. . £500,000 £500,000
Havmarket Permanent Building
Co. . . 125,000* 99,988
Northern Suburbs Building Co.. 20,060 20,000
£25,000 of pref. capital issued to the
public in 1928.
Last year these holdings turned in £31,720
net, approximately the same as in the pre-
vious year. It was scarcely enough to meet
the pref. requirements, so the ords. went
hungry again. The figures include the
Extended Co.’s proportion of the undivided
profits of the subsidiaries, so there has been
nothing visibly held back.
The chief subsidiary, A. R. and Co., is
the poorest earner of the group. It netted
£24,521 last year, or 4.9 p.c. on its capital
as against 5.4, 7.1 and 8 p.c. back to 192 b.
The parent took up an extra £50,000 worth
of scrip, and drew upon its deposits with
this co. for £55,375. The book value ot
unsold land was worked down £37,023, and
£21,743 was added to buyers’ balances; but
£17,055 was tacked on to mortgages, and
£6570 to the amount coming to sundry credi-
tors. Share holdings were up £17,104.
The Haymarket Co. sold one of its city
leaseholds, and the profit thereon more than
offset the reduced earnings from its land
sales. Thus, after attending to the pref.
requirements, the usual 6 p.c. was handed to
the ords., but there was only £BOl to spare.
The Northern Suburbs Co. paid 3 p.c.
(£602), and that was £lO6 more than it
claimed as profit.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the situation
as balance-sheet figures of the operating cos.
show it: —
Arthur Hay- Northern
Rickard market Suburbs
Co. Co. Co. Total.
Mortgages, etc.. £240,128 £39,801 £5,8/7 £285,800
Deposits.. .. 5,306 5,306
Other debts .. 77,252* 5,118 38 82,408
City property .. 90,000 21,828 111,828
Unsold land . . 146,806 49,821 6,439 203,066
Balances owing,
etc. .. .. 303,477 62,173 14,011 379,661
Other book debts 74,552 5,580 3,636 83,768
Debentures . . 84,692 40,000 124,692
Shares in other cos. 162,374 1,075 7,960 171,409
Govt. securities
and cash .. - 10,000 210 10,210
includes £44,269 owing to parent co.
Since property values are more likely to
ease than strengthen, much obviously depends
upon the figure placed upon unsold land.
The position will look more attractive when
the heavy outside debt is substantially
reduced.
Only the prefs. are listed; they rank in
the order stated and have priority as to
capital. The backing, mainly unsold land
and land in the course of sale to clients,
amounts to £6 18s. 7d., firsts; £2 19s. 3d.,
seconds; £3 18s. 7d., thirds. The firsts are
priced at 155., and the seconds at 125.,
returning 10.6 p.c. and 13.3 p.c. respectively.
The thirds have not come on to the market
for some months.
Kempthorne, Prosser (M.L.).
Writ- To Re- Re-
Jan., Profits. Dividends, ten Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1920.. 40,768 10 p.c. = 31,493 9.275 100,103
1921 . 43,618 10 „ „ 36,412 7,206 107,309
1922.. 32,921 8 „ „ 31.828 1,093 108.402
1923.. 37,100 9 „ „ 35,997 1,103 109 505
1924.. 42,376 10 „ „ 40.000 2,376 111.881
1925.. 47.371 10 „ „ 40,000 7,371 119,252
Premiums on new shares . . 32,500 151,752
1926.. 54,924 10 p.c. =4l 974 - 7 7 950 159i702
Staff provident fund, £5OOO )
1927.. 57.134 10 p.c =4B 299 - / 7 g 35 167>537
Staff provident fund, £lOOO )
1928.. 50,642 10 p.c. == 52,638 l -i qq* r
Staff provident fund, £3OOO ) I'UU4 1 ' UU4
1929.. 72,810 10 p.c. =52 974 -7 lg 386 184 , 8 77
Staff provident fund, £3500 J
Reserves capitalised, £53,000 .. 131,877
1930.. 71,910 10 p.c. 58,295 No 115 141992
Staff provident fund, £3,500 \ ’
Besides building up a big drug-making and
-importing trade throughout the Dominion,
the co. has also developed a large fertiliser
business, which explains the recent growth
in the figures. For a time, owing to keen
competition and price cutting, the co. did not
get much out of its super. But differences in
the trade were patched up a couple of years
ago, and with the return to better prices,
and a vast increase in the use of chemicals
for top-dressing, gross profits have responded
handsomely without a corresponding increase
in exes.: —•
Gross Profits. Expenses.
1910 .. £53,034 £36,426 68.6 p.c.
1920 . . 139,909 100,098 71.5 „
1925 . . 147,344 99,985 67.8 „
1926 . . 161,320 106,500 66.0 „
1927 . . 163,725 106,612 65.1 „
1928 . . 177,159 120,533 68.0 „
1929 . . 199,318 126,522 63.4 „
1930 . . 202,652 130,770 64.5 „
Last year trading became more difficult, and
the drug section was less profitable,- thus put-
ting more burden upon super. Nevertheless
gross profits improved £3334; but exes, took
all the increase and £9OO-odd besides. How-
ever, the net result was 12.3 p.c. on capital,
so the 10 p.c. div. presented no difficulty,
though it called for an extra £5321.
That was because £53,00 of bonus scrip
was handed out early in the term to celebrate
the co.’s jubilee.. It was the first gift in the
co.’s history, but earlier share issues, made
at a premium, have taken the icing off the
cake. Over the last decade divs. have aver-
aged 9.7 p.c. Nevertheless, with the
altered conditions in the trade and the use of
fertiliser on the increase, and likely to con-
tinue so for years yet, earnings can be
expected to improve, and profits should bene
fit. But there is nothing to indicate that
more than 10 p.c. need be looked toi. ,
The growth of the business aiid the
activities show up in the next comi c . •
loin 1920 1929. l 93U >
Capital . . £MO$O £367,140 £529,866 £588,000
Liabilities .. 59,442 76,650 206,081- 252,468
et . c - i|:|| II E 8&
Book debts . . 58,513 100,283 J_
Cash, etc. .. 4,373 133,9/6 > ■
The more or less liquid surplus
including stocks) slipped £G ‘“ 4 flt <! V>. 1 11 .” p}.
year. But the new acid works at Burnside,
Dunedin, were completed, . and a new • •
house-freehold bought without shareholders
asked to contribute. Xlie bon id
to its bankers for £19,379. Seasonal influences
were mainly responsible for the movements
in sundry creditors, stocks and book dpbts
As usual plant is reported thoioughly
efficient; and much depends upon that and
the allowance for contingencies.
The £2 shares fetch £3 10s. on the market,
the return at that figure being 5.6 p.c. on n
10 p.c. div. basis. The backing is 4.15. 9d.
per share in net tangibles.
Shamrock Brewing Co. (Melb.)-
jsj et To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
iQ9i 9 852 IX p.c. = 8,638 1214 20,653
iSIk: IMol 13 P ,; „ 10,208 200 20,853
t qoo in 660 14.6 ~ ~ 11,484 20
1924** 12 , 808 14.6,, ~ 11,484 1324 21,353
1925!: 13 222 14.6 ”", IMB4 1738 23,091
l5 665 17 „ » 13,349 2316 26,407
1997 15792 17 ~ 13,349 2443 27,850
1998" 15 688 17 13,349 2339 30,189
1929'.: 16,106 17 13,349 2757 32,946
This is one of the holding cos. through which
the public is interested in the activities or
the Carlton and United Breweries. The
advance in profits and divs, corresponds
with the growth in returns from holdings in
the big operating concern. At Dec. 31 these
stood in the books at £84,780, made up of
72.500 ords. and 3625 prefs. at par, and
6924 prefs. at a premium of 5s Other
assets were a solitary hotel freehold, £454J,
cash, advances, etc., £27,278; and £3600
coming from the old Collingwood brewery,
sold in 1917. This freehold was one of the
properties not wanted when the combine
was formed 23 years ago, and the deprecia-
tion in value —it was not worth cost tor
any other purpose—represents part or the
goodwill loading in the £72,500 C.U.B. shares
(face value) originally handed to this co.
Returns from the co.’s investments have
been as follows :
C.U.B. Interest, C.U.B. Inteiest,
Dividends. etc. Dividends. etc
1920.. £7,997 £1312 1925. . £12,950 £llO2
1921.. 9 157 1340 1926.. 15,02/ 1364
1922.. 10,009 1236 1927.. 15,027 15(.0
1923.. 11,912 1356 1928.. 15,027 1587
1924.. 12,431 1269 1929.. 15,027 1960
Thus after paying a handful of exes. (£881)
Shamrock was able to show 20.5 p.c. on capi-
tal last year. But the operating co. did
not distribute £81,423 of its admitted profits
for the year to June 30, 1928, and Shamrock
would he entitled to £3460 of this, equal to
another 4.4 p.c. on its capital, making total
net earnings 24.9 p.c. _
Since the Dry Army in Vic. was recently
put under the table for another eight years
at least, interest now centres mainly 111
prospects for future benefits. At the moment
conditions are unfavorable for any improve-
ment in earnings, but the C.U.B. is very
well equipped to weather a difficult passage,
and its future looks as assured as any future
can look in these difficult times. Exactly
what effect competition from the new Ricn-
mond brewery will have remains to be seen.
Of recent years the C.U.B. has tightened
its grip upon the trade and hastened
development by purchases and otherwise.
Its 174 p.c. div. is comfortably within
declared" net earnings, which averaged 2~.4
p.c. over the last three years. Paid capital
is £1,950,000, and at June 30 last visible
accumulations totalled £1,258,596, subject to
£BOO,OOO originally paid for the goodwills or
the amalgamated' businesses. Also surplus
liquids were piled to £1,500,076.
Shamrock’s pound shares, which touched
625. last year, are now at 425. The return
at that figure is 8.1 p.c. on a 17 p.c. div.
basis. The backing is 425. in net assets,
including the C.U.B. reserves.
Northcote Brick Co., Ltd. (Melb.).
To Re- Re-
Mar , Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 10,298 7 p.c. = 9,375 923 7,297
1922:: 17 575 Si „ „ 11,250 6325 13,622
1923.. 27,254 14i „ „ 18,750 8504 126
Bonus from holdings, £15,470 .. .. 3 u590
1924.. 22,821 141 p.c. - 18,750 4071 41,66/
Reserves capitalised, £18,750 . . ■ • 22,91/
Bonus from holdings, £9,646 .. .. 32,563
1925.. 15,082 10 p.c. = 15,000 82 32,645
19-26.. 20,835 124 „ „ 18,750 2085 34,730
1927 . 24,658 124 „ 18,750 5908 40,638
1928.. 16,891 10* „ „ 15,000 1891 42,529
Bonus from holdings, £5460 .. ••
1929.. 16,985 10 p.c. = 15,000 1980 49,9/4
1930.. 13,198 10 „ „ 15,000 48,1/2
111 this class of business profits are governed
by conditions in the building trade, and last
(Continued on page 16.)


Bonds Industries limited
Whg you should be interested
in this mat Australian Undertaking
By supporting our great manufacturing industries to-day we hasten our future
prosperity and the rewards will be tremendous. Australia has the ability
to produce its needs already possesses many splendid factories. Consider
the value to Australia at the present time of such an organisation as
BOND’S INDUSTRIES, LIMITED.
A Wages Bill of overdSOOO per week
BOND’S INDUSTRIES LIMITED provides direct, profitable and PRODUCTIVE
employment for thousands of Australian men and women. . . .sterling oppor-
tunities to learn SKILLED trades in the factories and cotton mills the
present wages bill is over £6OOO per week. In addition, BOND’S INDUSTRIES
LIMITED purchases seven-tenths of the cotton grown in Australia, thus helping
to support 3000 Queensland growers.
Meeting the demand lor Spun Cotton
This year’s estimated requirements for Australian spun cotton is 5,000,0001 b.
BOND S INDUSTRIES LIMITED will supply 75 per cent, of this. To meet
the demand, additional machinery has been purchased. This will greatly increase
production and reduce the cost.
Putting all Sentiment Aside
Fortunately there is no need to-day for BOND’S INDUSTRIES LIMITED to
rely on sentiment. Trading is now on a thoroughly sound basis. All sections
of the business show proven profits for the past two years. The value of
BOND’S name is shown by sales for the last five years these are in the
vicinity of £1,000,000 per annum.
Future expansion and greater profits are assured. The alteration in managerial
control will save £lB,OOO per year. . . .sales for the three months ending March,
1930, are already greater than for the same period last year. . . .the new tariff
being practically prohibitive for imported hosiery, offers Australian manu-
facturers a new market to the value of £2,323,425 yearly. In addition, the
tariff makes the importation of underwear almost impossible. . ... .a further
valuable field for BOND S INDUSTRIES LIMITED. Already sections of the
hosiery, underwear and cotton-spinning mills are working three shifts per day.
There is 37/6 in tangible assets for every 20/- invested in. BOND’S INDUS-
TRIES LIMITED. The net profit on the huge turnover of £1,000,000 per year
is estimated to prove in excess of £lOO,OOO per annum. This sum will be
available for the payment of debenture interest and dividends.
Although this article is not to be taken as an invitation to apply for
shares in BOND'S INDUSTRIES LIMITED , investors who
would like to participate may obtain the full prospectus and appli-
cation forms from THE AUSTRALIAN INVESTMENT
TRUST LIMITED , 17 O'Connell Street , Sydney.


Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slats Merchants,
Slaters. Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST,- REDFERN, N.S.W
MAKE YOUR WILL!
The making of a Will and the appointment of a reliable Executor is a
matter demanding the most careful attention of every man and woman
possessing property.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED,
Acts as
TRUSTEES - EXECUTORS - ATTORNEYS - AGENTS
This old-established Company has had over 42 years’ experience in the
management of all classes of Estates. Unlike an individual, it cannot
die, and, moreover, it offers its Capital and Assets of over £1,000,000
as security for the protection of clients’ interests.
Our explanatory Booklet, sent free on
request, will interest you. Write note.
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Ass’t Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Life and Fire
Policies
You are being asked to
insure with offices which
are on the verge of bank-
ruptcy.
If you want to protect
yourselves read
The “‘WildCat’
Monthly”
MAY NUMBER WILL
BE READY ON
SATURDAY.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/6. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
$ ❖ ❖
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coli.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Exchange
Arranged. Geo. E. Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria
Buildings, Corner Collins and Swanston Streets, Mel-
bourne. — Advt.
jj: % ❖ *
Wherever Pioneer Wood Pipe has been specified
for pipe-line construction it has proved a big
economic factor- —and its remarkable efficiency has
justified its choice in every instance. Light, inexpen-
sive to freight and transport, it may be laid by
unskilled labor directed by an expert foreman.
Another great advantage is the fact that it is posi-
tively non-corrosive, no matter what type of liquid
it carries. Full information on request to the
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road
(near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at
Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
Heating, Ventilating and Drying Plants tested,
adjusted and maintained. Designs prepared. Lewis
Bkos. 178 Oxford Street, Paddington. F 1306.
—Advt.
* * * #
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
insure: with the
Hi
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd.
fire, marine, accident,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
1 | 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
AGENTS WANTED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
year was much slacker than the one it fol-
lowed. Gross profits (£17,104, including
rents, divs., etc.) were £3451 lighter. Exes.
(£3906) advanced £336, so the net resulr
was 8.8 p.c. on capital as against 11.3, 11.2,
16.4 and 13.8 p.c. back to 1926. Notwith-
standing this the board made an assault
upon reserves for £lBO2 to pay the 10 p.c.
div. It implies more confidence in the future
than is to be had from the published
accounts.
Over the period covered by the table share-
holders have averaged 10.9 p.c. p.a., sweet-
ened with a small capitalisation (2s. per
share) in 1924, and there was £48,172 of
surplus earnings visibly assisting the
£150,000 of paid capital at March 31. Dur-
ing most of that tim > the building and allied
trades have enjoyed boom conditions; the
results therefore uiv. aot a reliable guide to
the future. However, the co. has made some
profitable investments outside its own busi-
ness ; no less than £30,576 of the lay-by
represents bonus shares received on holdings
in other cos., the book value of which has
advanced from £11,345 in 1923 to £41,821, or
a shade over 20 p.c. of the total assets at
the close of last accounts. Part of the
£88,746 at which freeholds figure contri-
butes directly to revenue too; but exactly
how much each of the co.’s interests turns
in is not disclosed.
There is nothing uneasy about the finances :
1923. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Paid' capital. . £131,250 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities . . 2,949 4,823 3,269 1,49 S
Freeholds . . 101,981 88,230 88,522 88,746
Plant, etc. . . 31,122 34,725 35,539 35,604
Stocks.. .. 4,047 2,447 2,834 3,25 l
Book debts . . 3,884 11.861 9,644 9,596
Shares other cos. 11,345 36,361 41,821 41,821
Cash, etc. . . 15,196 33,060 32,382 28,151
Apart from shares in other cos., but includ-
ing stocks, the more or less liquid surplus
(£39,500) receded £2091 last year. Book
debts are largely balances due on the sale of
old properties. A lot of money is said to
have been spent on plant recently, but only
£4482 has been added to its book value over
the last half-dozen years. Plant is regu-
larly reported in first-class order.
The board is optimistic as to the future,
but the figures will need to brighten if the
10 p.c. div. is to continue. After recent
sales at 245., buyers offer 21s. 6d. foii the
pound shares, which are backed by 265. sd.
in net assets; only 4s. 9d. of it is represented
by plant. At 21s. 6d. the return is 7.4 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Moreton Central Sugar (Q.).
Net To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 32,695 10 p.c. = 8792 23,903 38,224
Reserves capitalised, £21,978 .. 16,246
Dec.,
1925.. 5,632 7 p.c. = 8055 13,823
Loss.
1926.. 406 Nil 13,417
Profit.
1927.. 526 Nil 13,943
Loss.
1928.. 6,674 Nil 7,269
Profit.
1929.. 876 Nil 8,145
It was not always like that; comfortable
returns were won during the period of Gov-
ernment purchase, and the div. had climbed
to 10 p.c. in 1919. In the following year
reserves were raided for £34,212 to pay
13s. 4d. on each of 51,318 new pound shares.
The prosperity continued, and, under ex-
ceptional conditions, a record net profit was
won for the 13 months to the close of
accounts in 1925. So another assault was
made upon the lay-by, this time for £21,978,
and gift scrip in the proportion of one for
four was handed out. At the same time the
capacity of the plant was increased, and the
board went to its bankers for the money.
Presently crushings got lighter, juices be-
came refractory and the export surplus also
interfered with earnings :
Cane Sugar Manu- Sugar and
Crushed factored By-product Cost
Tons. Tons. Sales. per ton.
1924.. 86,076 10,265 £275,743 £24 12 6
1925.. 83,279 9,612 193,272 19 3 4
1926.. 57,701 6,743 155,335 23 5 10
1927.. 46,355 5,917 130,266 22 1 10
1928.. 35,364 4,765 98,442 22 0 0
1929.. 48,074 6,510 133,087 20 11 8
Floods affected the 1928 figures. Last year
nature was kinder, an extra 12,730 tons
cane was put through the rollers, and the
average c.c.s. was 14.1, the highest yet
recorded at the mill. But if the plant, which
has a capacity of about 100,000 tons p.a.,
can only get about half a meal, nothing
much need be expected in the way of profits.
Despite a cut of 2Ss. 4d. a ton in manu-
facturing costs, only £1225 of profit showed
up in the sugar account last year. And
that was a*fter taking into consideration
an under-estimate of £1435 in the stock
figures at the close of accounts in 1928.
After striking off £3739 for depreciation,
income and outgo in connection with the
tramway again exactly balanced. The sawmill
was closed during the whole of the term, but
maintenance, etc., ran off with £725. It is
to remain closed until conditions become more
favorable.
The financial position has changed greatly
during the last five years : —-
1924. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital . . £90,260 £118,056 £118,084 £118,084
Overdraft ... 124,058 116,462 104,760
Sundry creditors 9,849 3,654 3,786 4,788
Land . . 3,870 3,145 3,080 3,080
Mills, plant, etc. 113,957 229,964 220,583 212,476
Stocks . . 4,786 6,760 2,933 2,039
Book debts . . 29,700 20,714 19,362 18,635
Cash, etc. . . 4,812 79 541 523
Mainly because of the allowance for deprecia-
tion the board wa« able to clip £11,702 off
the. overdraft last year. The £88,351 by
which liabilities exceeded the more or less
liquids at Dec. 31 was £9061 less than the
excess a year earlier.
Prospects are for a heavier crushing during
the current term. But the market, which
notes past events a<nd the heavy debt, is
not impressed. Sellers ask ss. 6d. for the
scrip without attracting buyers. The back-
ing amounts to 21s. sd. in net tangibles, all
of it in plant, worth what it can earn.
More Insurance Frauds Alleged.
One of the most sensational happenings
of recent years in connection with insurance
in Australia, and one likely to have far
reaching consequences, was the arrest last
week of the governing director, secretary and
accountant of the Australian Federal Life
and General Assurance Co., Ltd. Each of
these officials lias been charged with con-
spiracy to defraud the shareholders and
policy-holders in the co. Thus thousands of
people who hold policies in the co. and in
the various concerns whose businesses it
recently took over are wondering whether
they have lost all or only part of their sav-
ings. Some of the policy-holders are women
who have struggled to pay premiums for
20 or 30 years in order to make provision
for a rainy day. Until the co.’s affairs are
thoroughly probed and its accounts combed,
the real position can only be guessed at.
The Australian Federal Life and General
was a Sydney float promoted by F. A. V.
Partridge about seven years ago. He took
£lO,OOO in fully-paid 8 p.c. cum. prefs.,
£lOOO cash and a job as governing director
on terms and conditions not disclosed in the
prospectus. The co. mixes fire, accident and
marine underwriting with life business.
About five years ago it managed to buy con-
trol of the People’s Prudential Assurance
Co., Ltd.
The Prudential, which was established in
1896, had a paid capital of £lO,OOO and
Assurance funds totalling £211,683 at Dec.
31, 1927 —the last figures available. Its
assets then totalled £259,679, of which mort-
gages accounted for £230,409. There were
6959 policies assuring £775,019 in the Ordi-
nary branch, and 7384 policies assuring
£218,066 in the Industrial department. For
many years it had paid bonuses to policy-
holders and a regular 10 p.c. to shareholders.
In July last the Australian Federal
announced that it had taken over the busi-
ness of the People’s Prudential, and also the
fire, accident and marine business of the
Federal Building Assurance, and its three
associates —Commonwealth Traders, Austra-
lian Traders and Empire Life and General.
The basis on which these deals were put
through was not disclosed. Recently the
Federal Building Co., Commonwealth Trad-
ers and People’s Prudential were severally
put into compulsory liquidation.
Figures published a week or so ago show
that at Dec. 31 last the Australian Federal
had a paid capital of £93,595, and reserves,
presumably including Assurance funds,
totalling £277,152. Its outside liabilities
were : Bank, £74,429 ; mortgages, £30,879;
sundry creditors, including outstanding
claims, £16,718. There was also £51,196
coming to associated cos. Its tangible assets
comprised Government securities, £34,568;
cash, £4449; property was given a book
value of £45,584; investments, loans, etc.,
£332,371; sundry debtors, agents’ balances
and outstanding premiumsr £38,457. Obvi-
ously the position depends upon what the
investments, loans, etc., are really worth,
and, as already stated, that can only be
guessed at at the moment. Policy-holders
have acted wisely in forming a committee
to protect their interests.
The whole affair should hasten action in
connection with the Life Assurance Bill now
before the Federal Parliament. One of the
most satisfactory features of this bill is a
provision for the establishment and main-
tenance of statutory funds to cover liabilities
under policies. With minor exceptions the
assets in which the money is invested are
not to be made subject to any prior charges,
nor are the funds to be used to buy shares
or an interest in any insurance business.
The Act, of course, will not remedy any
mischief already done, but it will provide
some reasonable safeguards in respect of the
future.
Australian Alloy Steel, Ltd.
This little co. is on the stocks in Sydney.
Nominal capital is £50,000 in pound shares,
of which 25,000 are offered, the promoter
takes 7500 paids for patents, another 2500
paids are reserved for employees, and the
balance (15,000 shares) are in pickle.
The promoter (he is also to be managing
director) is J. M. Deschamps. He used to
be managing director of Hadfields (Aus-
tralia), Ltd., in which connection he did
much to further the manufacture of high-
grade steels in Australia. Recently he
resigned from H’adfields, and, having patented
processes for the mechanical casting and
forging of metals, is'now setting out to make
special-quality casting, mainly for indus-
trial plants.
The co.’s own plant, land, buildings, etc.,
are expected, to run into about £14,200. The
co. has a good fighting chance; its success
or otherwise will be largely a matter of costs.
On an output of 1000 tons a year net earn-
ings of £lO,OOO, equal to 281 p.c. on a capi-
tal of £85,000 are spoken of.
With Mr. Deschamps on the board are
Percy Wilson and E. D. Heppner.
Great Boulder and other Ivalgoorlie, Adel-
aide and Melbourne interests which have
options on the Tanami goldfield have
equipped an expedition for the purpose of
inspecting the claims. James Hebbard and
F. B. Stephens, the latter from London, will
accompany the party and furnish expert
reports. J. T. Beckett, chairman of Tanami
Gold Mines, and others will also link up.
The party will leave Adelaide on May 1
and proceed by rail to Alice Springs, thence
by motor-trucks for some 350 miles nor’-west
to Tanami. Water will be carried, and it
is expected that recent rains will have filled
the rock holes and claypans along the route.
Great Tanami Syndicate, a London crowd,
is preparing to comply with the working
conditions of its options over leases on th *
field.
* * * *
The directors of the Minnie Moxliam,
Mareeba (Q.), are bucked at the result of
two recent crushings, each of which went
loz. to the ton. The 181 tons stone treated
all came from new ground on the 130 ft. level.
After carrying the drive 15ft. the reef went
underfoot; it is believed to be a new make.,
of stone come into the footwall. No work
lias yet been done on the bottom levels.
* # * *
The railway line between Cooktown and
Laura is to be included ip the Palmejr Reefs
concession, granted to a N.Q. syndicate,
which will presently ask English speculators
for money to dewater some old mines on
the Upper Palmer.
* * * *
The Government boring for the deep
lead at Beaconsfield (Tas.), where the Tas-
manian mine alone produced close on
£1,800,000 worth of gold, has proved a dud,
though many reckon that the test was not
a fair one. Now the. Lefroy field is to be
stabbed; it yielded gold valued at over
£7,000,000 in the past. Most of the big
mines gave out at about 400 ft. Many old-
timers would like someone to follow down
what late geologist Thureau described as a
true fissure lode in the Native Youth mine,
met with at a depth of 700 ft., but not per-
severed with.
* * * #
For years control of the bismuth products
of the world has been in the hands of the
Bismuth Ring, operating from London. Now
there is a local market for the metal, Elliott
Bros., the , manufacturing chemists and
druggists, having recently installed a plant,
at their Rozelle works, Sydney, for the
treatment of bismuth concentrates.
# * * *
The exodus of option hunters from Adel-
aide to Westralia’s latest gold find near
Edjudina has begun. Some of them repre-
sent no liability cos. with little cash and a
lot of reserve or forfeited shares in hand,
obviously seeking something promising enough
for a market flutter. Meanwhile good re-
ports continue to be received from the find
and they look right.
* * * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Full particulars regarding Merron Estate,
Ltd., 10 per cent, return guaranteed (for
12 months). Could Ibe sure of my capital
being returned at end of term? —6l6oa.
The present co. was formed about three
years ago to take over the business of Merron
Estate, which had been in the money-leding
business, in a small way, for about 10 years
previously. The same control remains. At
March 31 of this year, the co. held £22,035
on fixed deposit; other debts amounted to
£5523. To meet the lot there were advances,
etc., with a book value of £49,788 = 365. 2d.
for every pound of outside money at risk.
The co.’s original prospectus said advances
were made on second mortgage and bills of
sale; the management now informs the
“Wild Cat” that second mortgages amount
to only a few hundred pounds. Paid capital
is £18,145; 10 p.c. divs. for the last three
years. The risk appears to be a reasonable
one considering the high rate of interest. Re-
payment of capital at the end of the period
seems to depend on whether (1) advances are
repaid or securities sold, (2) fresh loans
are made to the co., (3) new share capital
is available. If all three fail the depositor
will probably have to wait till one or other
of tlic things happens.
A person takes out a life policy, and by
mistake gives the wrong age by one year.
(1) When the policy becomes payable, can
the office refuse payment? (2) In the event
of the office ref using payment can the policy-
holder do anything? —6lB4.
(1) The sec. of the A.M.P. society says:
“The practice of this society, where a dis-
crepancy of one year has been disclosed, is
to deduct arrears of premium owing to the
error in cases where the age has been under-
stated, and to make a refund of the amount
of premiums overpaid where age has been
overstated.” (2) Impossible to say without
reference to the policy. But we cannot
believe there is an office in Australia that
would vitiate a policy and refuse to make
a refund of premiums because of such a
mistake not wilfully made.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
E. J.McL.: Our reports are that planta-
tion is promising l , but profits are out of the question
for some years. There is no open market for the shares.
You have contracted to pay the face value and must
do so if calls are made in terms of the prospectus.
R.N.: Safe enough; but they may have their
vicissitudes during the next year or two... .E.M.F.:
Both of them speculative; the oil venture a pure
gamble T.G.: Better not, if safety of capital is
important... .823: (1) It has other troubles. (2)
None declared; the secretary may know of one.
(3) No. (4) No; but it isn’t hopeless....
A.E.McN.: The risk is too great... .H.D.: Not
bogus; but unproved and quite speculative... .H.P.:
Quite solvent; progress very slow and difficult;
management unsettled... .0.L.G.: Too likely to come
within the range of Government interference.


SHADOW SHOWS.
The
STATE
THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
“Such Men Are Dangerous” (Fox Movie-
tone) was pre-shown at Sydney Regent.
There were no programmes, and the screen
revealed nothing of value except Elinor
Glyn’s responsibility for the plot.
Catherine Dale-Owen, an anonymous Lon-
don girl with an agreeable American accent,
is about to marry Warner Baxter in the
role of Ludwig Kranz, an, emperor of
finance. She has a sister who is the gold-
digging wife of a Wodehouse ass named
Freddie. The sister is to blame for a match
which, in view of Kranz’s frock coat, spec-
tacles, wispy bear) and nose, was plainly
foredoomed to disaster. On the wedding
night Kranz plods upstairs to claim his
marital rights, and finds his wife gone. A
scrutiny of his nose in the looking-glass indi-
cates the source of the trouble. He decides
to have it planed down. So he drops from
his aeroplane in a parachute, and, while
the world believes him dead, has the defect
remedied by a plastic surgeon. The sur-
geon is also something of an oculist; his
operation enables Kranz to abandon his spec-
tacles, A shave and a new suit of clothes
do the rest, and when his wife meets him
again, as a handsome young Frenchman, she
falls in love with him.
The title implies that he is a ruthless
being who will punish her for her former
slights, and some of his actions after his
metamorphosis point that way, but when it
comes to the point he turns out to be as
harmless as the next man. She comes to
dinner at his flat, the position is explained,
and they are reconciled.
The story takes some swallowing—in fact,
it hovers at times on the edge of farce —
but it is well acted, w r ell produced and audible,
and it has dramatic moments. Miss Dale-
Owen articulates beautifully as usual, and
she again displays her unique gift for regis-
tering purity in provocative garments. She
arrives for the dinner at the flat so nearly
naked. as not to matter, and yet manages
to maintain her virginal aura to the end.
Warner Baxter has an absurd part, but
makes it as credible as anyone could.
? » «
First National gave us a pre-view of “Is
Everybody Happy?” It has been written
round Ted Lewis, America’s leading jazz-
merchant. He is a short, stocky, side-levered
Hebrew who said good-bye to youth years
ago, and he has a Bowery accent. Yet the
audience is asked to accept him as a bov
violinist, who has just arrived in New York
with his parents from Hungary. He might
get away with his physical handicaps if
he could act. There is, an infectious brio
about his methods while conducting, hoofing
and juggling with his clarionet. But at
other times he is amateurish in manner and
voice production, and as a mother’s boy in
the home he amounts to an incitement to
homicide.
Works like “Is Everybody Happy ?” were
being produced when Mr. Lewis was young,
ALICE DAY in “Is
Everybody Happy?”
with a ruined
daughter a s
the ceil t r a 1
figure. In this
one jazz tak a
the part of
the seducer
with the cigar-
cll e. The
simple Hun-
garian lad is
induced to
s w a p his
violin for a
“red-hart clar-
n e t.’’ The
father, who
has conducted
an orchestra
in Budapest,
reacts to the
discovery of
the boy’s fall
on the same
lines as a
father i n
E d w a r dian
drama did
to the discovery that his unmarried daughter
had had a baby. The sweet old mother stands
by the outcast as in the other type of enter-
tainment. After a tempestuous scene in
which the ex-conductor assails jazz, and the
boy stands up for it, the former rushes from
his polluted home and takes a job as janitor
in a theatre. Apparently he learns to appre-
date jazz there. Anyhow, he returns to his
family on Christmas Day, and marches in
to dinner to the strains of a jazz tune.
The love interest is supplied by Lena
Schmidt, who has been Ted’s sweetheart in
Hungary (Ann Pennington does some ener-
getic dancing in the semi-nude in this part),
and a lass who was in the first saloon on
the ship aboard which Ted and his people
were travelling steerage. Lena is unworthy,
and anyhow he prefers the other, who vies
with him as a sentimental eye-roller and
wide irrelevant grinner. There is more paw-
ing, stroking, hugging and kissing of an
innocuous domestic nature in this film than
in any dozen that the writer can call to
mind, and its moral sentiments are unim-
peachable. There is an excuse for the story;
no audience could have stood a full evening
with Ted and his band.
V
“The Locked Door,” at Sydney Haymarket,
is an adaptation of “The Sign on the Door.”
The sign- (“Do Not Disturb”) is attached to
the door as in the drama, but the new title
looks naughtier in the advts., which no doubt
accounts for it. Thei’e is nothing naughty
about the film. It is a well-built thriller,
with no gaol patter, only one casualty and a
number of useful moral tips. The virtuous
Helen (Betty Bronson) in a moment of
girlish folly allows the licentious Frank
Devereaux (Rod la Rocque) to lure her te
a floating xiight club which is raided while
she is repelling his advances. Later, she
marries righteousness in the person of Lau-
rence Reagan. Devereaux arrives, bent on
the ruin of her sister-in-law, and her dismay
and his sinister grin of recognition attract
general attention. A sensible modern wife
would explain about the night club, and per-
haps knock some of the bounderish conceit
out of her former admirer by lightly stress-
ing his lack of sense in taking her there on
a raid night.
However, if Mrs. Reagan did not possess
the mentality of a nineteeth-century heroine
there would be no excitement. She goes to
DevereauX’s flat to head off her sister-in-law,
and is still there arguing with the seducer
when her husband arx-ives breathing threats
and insult. There is a brawl and Dever-
eaux is shot. The original feature of this
crime-play is that every measure taken by
the husband to convict Devereaux of suicide
(the locking of the door on the outside, the
nailing up of the sign, etc.) helps to convict
the hidden wife of murder. The get-out is
weak, but it was the only development
possible if a good woman was to be saved
from electrocution. Handsome Rod la
Rocque’s technique as a desti'oyer of women
is very old-fashioned. Betty Bronson has
a sensitively beautiful face, and a big emo-
tional part which she handles with restraint.
Zazu Pitts, George Bunny and Mack Swain
get most of the laughs.
* # #
If a reasonable proportion of the talkies
now being imported to Australia were half
as wholesome, cleverly written and artistic-
ally produced as “Cameo Kirby,” pre-shown
by Fox Movietone, the sneers at Hollywood
would come to a sudden end. The photo-
graphy is beautiful, the sound registration
approaches perfection, the acting is admirable
of its somewhat melodramatic kind, and the
story—by Booth Tarkington and Harry Leon
Wilson —has plenty of the warm wine of
romance and none of the cold oil of sen-
timentalism.
Eugene “Cameo” Kirby is a gambler
operating round New Orleans in the middle
of last century. During a Mardi Gras cele-
NORMA LEWIS
in “Cameo Kirby.”
bration in the
city he saves
the daughter
of Colonel
Randal] from
insult. Later,
he finds the
Colonel being
cheated at
cards on a
river steamer.
He is in the
act of saving
the victim
from the con-
sequences of
his folly (the
p h enomenally
foolish old
gentleman has
gambled away
the whole of
his property)
when there is
a shot “off.”
Th e Colonel
has suicided.
The swindler
Moreau tries to murder Cameo, and
the two men meet eventually at Miss
Randall’s home. Cameo is suspected by
the girl of having caused her father’s
death, and he is nearly lynched by a
New Orleans ci’owd on suspicion of having
murdered Moreau, but he rights himself with
the maiden, is saved from the lynching bee,
and turns from card-sharping to plantation-
owning. An old story, but it has new twists,
and it gives the camera-man some wonderful
opportunities. The weaving, rocking Mardi
Gras crowd, the lovely river scenes, and the
episode in the woo'd where Cameo and
Moreau stalk each other with pistols through
the morning mists are exquisitely done.
J. Harold Murray (Cameo) is appro-
priately cool, resourceful and manly as the
gambler, but he adds to the theatricalism
which is the show’s only serious defect by
breaking into robust song at all kinds of
inappropriate moments —as when Miss Ran-
dall is waiting to be kissed. Norma Terriss
looks sweet as the Colonel’s daughter—an
old-fashioned ingenue part. Cameo’s faithful
off-sider, the villain and the Colonel a*ll
called for praise, but the writer was unable
to find out who played the parts. Stepin
Fetchit, or someone like him, whines through
the rOle of a work-shy nigger butler.
KEEPING THE WAR-POT BOILING.
"After ten years of pacifist talk and a flood of war-books the world is spending 890 millions per annum on armaments.”
MARS (to armament manufacturer): “Things are progressing very well, my friend. YOU’RE safe so long as they go on spitting at ME.”


a
ESTABLISHED 1912
' HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors; Messrs. EDMUND 8. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD,
J. R. KIRK, Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost eveiy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
H E BIDEN Secretarr Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity. q EO bruce SMITH, General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Belle of New York”
Criterion (commencing Saturday) .... “Scandal”
Royal “The Hawk”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The Merry Widow”
New Comedy “Romance”
King’s “Love Lies”
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
+
Backhaus plays Beethoven as one could
imagine Ludwig himself playing his own
works after a century of reflection amid the
shades, during which he had practised dili-
gently every day and taken a sympathetic
interest in the pianistic developments that
followed his decease. There is an air of
familiarity with the music which here and
there does not disguise its contempt. The
player preserves the unimpassioned gravity
of a great surgeon doing miracles with a
scalpel but not in the least interested in his
own cleverness. Skilfully dissecting tho
“Waldstein” he seems to be saying: “It is
much admired and rather showy, but of
course not to be compared with the ‘Hara-
merklavier.’ These pretty little twiddles I’m
playing just now fit in very smoothly, but
I’ve almost forgotten why I put them there.
But this pastoral melody is a fine inspira-
tion, if I say it myself, and the climax is
surprisingly good.” In the first of the
“Countess Browne” group (G major) the
unspoken accompaniment of thought seems
to run something like this: “An estimable
lady, with very good musical taste. I ha vu
made her immortal, and she deserves her
immortality, for this sonata, though not
much esteemed by my successors, gave me
great pleasure in the writing. It still sings
nobly, I think.”
This Showman may be wronging both
Beethoven and Backhaus, but the impression
is distinct and unmistakable, accentuated by
the similarity in face and form of the irasc-
ible old gentleman of Bonn and his most
distinguished modern exponent. Backhaus
plays Chopin and Liszt with less of a
manner of august detachment. In the First
Ballade (part, with the others, of the first
Sydney recital, in the Town Hall on Satur-
day night, when a great crowd applauded
like mad) he thawed visibly as the theme
unfolded and declaimed the final re-entrance
of the strange sad melody with “majesty,
might, dominion and power.” The “Waldes-
rauschen” and “Campanella” of Liszt were
given with something almost approaching
gusto. Coming to the moderns of impec-
cable respectability (Backhaus draws a
very severe line), the Cossacks in Racamani-
noff's G major Prelude were allowed to
gallop over the steppes as tumultuously as
tbev liked. But in the group of encore pieces
Liszt’s “Liebestraum” had in it something of
Angus makes a bid for one more Show
sample.
the tolerance of age reviewing a passion
long dead, which is not improbably the mood
in which the Abbe, who discarded many
sweethearts, committed his dream to paper.
It w T as a great recital —an exposition of pure
pianism without a scintilla of charlatancy.
Beethoven-lovers should not miss to-morrow
night’s concert, for which four of the
sonatas, including the “Moonlight” and the
“Appassionata,” are listed, backed by four
of the finest rondos.
* ¥ *
The management had again to read the
Riot Act, so to speak, to an audience at Mel-
bourne Royal on Saturday when “The
Merry Widow” was presented. Gladys Mon-
crieff’s voice triumphed over every one of
the owner’s manifest disabilities, which
include an inability to really portray a Sonia
lhat captures the imagination or the
Viennese spirit of careless gaiety. The
impression deepened that musical thirst is
like the other variety—deprivation only
intensifies it. Baron Popoff was in the
familiar hands of Arthur Stigant, the most
intelligent comedian in Australia. There
was less of Gus about Bluett than uspal—
he made a
res pectable
study of
Nieh. Ram-
ola Hansen
was a new
Natalie, and
contrived to
give depth
and artistry
to that fri-
volous lady.
Herbert
Browne was
a model De
Jolidon. His
tenor was
as sweet as
they make
’em, and its
p o s s essor
throb bed
with roman-
tic emotion.
P r e v i ous
m u m m ers
have handled
Prince Dau-
ilo rtiffe r-
Not a Show . exhibit, but Backhaus on the job at Sydney
Town Hall.
du u i n u i
ently, but Michael Cole’s version may be said
to have had the charm of youth and spon-
taneity.
* V- #
The Commonwealth Players, an organisa-
tion designed to spread employment amongst
actors, selected the Playhouse and “Ask
Beccles,” an English comedy, for their initial
effort. It is doubtful, however, whether the
south bank of the Yarra is the best taking-
off place for a successful offensive against
the talkies. On the second Saturday the
management was reduced to offering free
Farewell to my steed (Sydney Show style).
passes to all comers for the following Mon-
day. “Ask Beccles” concerns the theft cf a
£25,000 diamond from the bosom of a rich
widow, but it is a leisurely piece of work
and, though amusing, is not a box-office
attraction of the first order. Leslie Laurier,
as a young ma*n who sets up as a consulting
specialist on the strength of owning an
“Encyclopaedia Britannica,” acts with vigor,
and Brett Randall is always amusing when
a playwright permits it. Geoffrey Malyan,
Hamilton Henry, Kate Morton, Tonie Sey-
mour and Douglas Drew are amongst the
others.
* ¥ #
Miss Carrie Tennant is carrying on an
interesting enterprise
at her Community
Playhouse, a cramped
basement under St.
Peter’s Hall, Darling-
hurst. There any Aus-
tralian who has writ-
ten a play can get it
acted. Miss Tennant
provides the theatre,
and even the players
if necessary. Nothing
could be more gener-
ous.
The idea is that
playwrights, seeing
their work acted, will
become alive to its
defects and mend their
ways. In theory, that
looks sound enough.
How it might work
out in practice is an-
other matter. The
creative practice is
another matter.
Last week’s offering
at the Community
was “Darwin Calls
Us,” labelled “An
Australian comedy in
three acts, by Harry
Blacket.” The most
disappointed man in
the audience was one who hailed.from Darwin
(N.T.), and who, since the play was called
“Australian,” linked the title with the town
Sydney Show Request Item: “Please,
Mister Appo, will you sharpen this pencil.”
instead of the man. The most striking feature
was the thing’s utter un-Australianness.
Its author is said to have never been out of
this country, yet every character, with the
possible exception of a Digger’s ghost, who
makes am occasional, unnecessary and
stickily sen-
t i m e n tal
a p pearance,
is thorough-
ly English.
The leading
c h a racter,
Jane, is a
v a u deville
English
slavey; her
beau is an
English vil-
lage rustic,
if not a half-
wit. So with
the rest.
The author
h a s some
skill in dia-
logue. But
any compe-
tent synop-
sis - writer
could put
the whole
action into
200 words,
men tioning
all characters. A play, no matter wliat 'ts
genus, must take you somewhere. This author
might well ask himself just where his play
takes an audience. The theme, such as it is,
appears to be, “Trusting in God is all right,
but it’s often a good plan to carry an um-
brella,” which is scarcely original. The good
offices of the slavey bring contentment to the
home of the parson who had been doddering
along trusting in God alone. There is a
melodramatic love-affair, wherein, after the
young doctor hero and the oldest parson-
daughter had said good-bye for ever, prior to
Mum (at least) was interested in the pigs
at Sydney Show
the doctor’s departure for Brisbane, Jane
brings him back by pretending to be sick.
That very old prop, eavesdropping, permits
the young doctor to discover that' Jane is
malingering. Jane had given him a dose of
castor oil when he was a boy, and he pays
her back in her own coin. It is not funny. It
does not serve the playwright’s purpose at
all. He wants to portray his young doctor as
a hero, a decent chap. Instead, he pro-
duces a bounder whose idea of a joke is to
pour a dose of revolting oil down the throat
of a woman who, despite a touch of native
shrewdness, is a pretty helpless creature.
Altogether his play
rather runs away with
Mr. Blanket, though,
given something really
worth constructing a
play out of, he should
do well enough. Rena
Lawrence, Bessie
Vine, Richard Dowse,
William Leahey and
Frank Carswell were
the best of his inter-
preters.
* 9 #
T s c h ai kowsky’s
pianoforte concert in
B flat minor was the
principal item in the
joint effort of the
University Symphony
Orchestra and the
Philharmonic Society
in aid of unemployed
musicians at Mel-
bourne Town Hall on
Saturday. Henri
Penn, one time of
Sydney, was the solo-
ist, and the perfor-
mance took the shape
of a spirited endeavor
,on the part of the
pianist to make him-
self heard above Ber-
nard Heinze’s players. Penn is a fine
artist, not particularly subtle, but note-per-
fect, and supremely confident. It was a pity
conductor Heinze did not err on t i as j s>
under-statement rather than over ‘. 1 The
Penn received a well-deserved ovati . . ,
Philharmonic contributions were they
excerpts from “The Messiah, which tney
sang as excellently as usual.
* * *
The gods made amends to Sydney
promoters by keeping the dgpressio
the weather. Consequently the bi» P c
ance finished up on Saturday m t a blaze or
glory and sunshine. There is not tl
shouting over attendance or sales, hut tie
mendous crowds jostled on the PD P
davs and the general exhibits and n »
entries were hundreds ahead of the previovn
best * * *
The Vic Prof Orchestra has decided.that
its good deed for May Tl will be a com-
plimentary concert to Gustave Slapoffslu a
the Plaza, St. Kilda. No musician better
deserves one. The renowned conductor ot
season after season of Gilsullivan opei.
came out of retirement some time ago, and
has led the offensive of the unemployed
musicians against the talkies for the past
twelvemonth, with skill and astoun l »
vigor ;• and on several occasions the old
man lias gone over the top against the advice
of his physician.
* * V
Leon Gordon joins the select band of
Great Artists of the World by staging yet
another return appearance in Sydney. -tL
follows “Journey’s End” at the Cri. on
Saturday. “Scandal” will be played for a
week; then “White Cargo.” Faversham has
not done as well as he deserved to do at the
Royal, where his season ends this week.
Acting has been better than the plays. The
Belle of New York” is also nearing the end.
It will be replaced by another revival, The
Country Girl,” on May TO.
The Palette
Sydney has three shows of note going
together—the Water-color Institute collec-
tion at the Education Gallery, a batch of
Old Masters at the Macquarie a*nd Lister
Lister at Horderns. Exhibits number several
hundred altogether; sales, a few dozen,
mostly from the water-color show. A deco-
rative piece, a costumed lady under blooming
acacia, was the only one of Norman Lindsay's
five unsold when The Bulletin looked in,
and red tabs adorned four of G. K. Towns-
hend’s seven. Most of the others, if they
want to keep the wolf from the door, _ will
have to heave their frames at liim. This is no
brick heaved at the quality. Blamire Young,
Hubert Jarvis, Nugent Welch, ; Jean Russell,
M. J. McNally, John R. Eldtrshaav, Fred
Leist, Minns, Muir Auld, Fullwood, Collins,
Herbert, R. W. Sturgess and a few others
have work that would sell readily in normal
times. The show is probably the society’s
best to date, though it is as lacking in
thought as ever. Lindsay is one of the veivv
Another Show Tragedy. The artist tries a
penny in the second slot.
few to give his brush the job of expressing
more than is actually put down. Nearly all
others are purely decorative painters, very
charming indeed, but craftsmen rather than
artists. A striking example of good crafts-
manship is Leist’s “Decoration for an Over-
mantel.’’ It is admirable in design. Appa-
rently the setting is Australian, for there
are a couple of small kangaroos in the fore-
ground of a huma*n tableau. In the mid-
background nudes rest on a cloud island.
They seem to have been put there with some
idea above mere decoration, but not one of
the foreground figures is looking at them.
There is a different point of interest for
each of these figures, and the nudes are
politely ignored. Tho whole result is a
stagey tableau. It might have been a tensely
dramatic picture. The most improved artist
exhibiting is G. K. Townshend. liis pattern
of shallow waves is a fine thing, charming
as a whole and quick with light and move-
ment. “The Roadman’s Cottage” makes
warm contrast, and “Lagoon Edge” is
another complete painting. Experiment in
outlook is almost wholly confined to the
student’s section of the show r . It has a
youthful eagerness and freshness that comes
as a relief after general placidity.


ADELAIDE’S
Most Modern Hotel
THE
HOTEL BOTANIC
NORTH TERRACE, CITY.
Delightfully Situated
Garden Frontage
Balcony Rooms
All Latest Appointments.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard ai Quality throughout the Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelafi
Dynamite
Safety fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ADFIELDS
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadlields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and l Alexandria, Svdney, N.S.W.
Foundries 1 Bassendean, Perth, \V,A.
Branch ( 422 Collins Street. Melbourne, Via
Office J T, k G. Building, Brisbane. Q.
When you come to
SYDNE Y
You will find at Usher s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
/
HO T E
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usberotel.” Sydney.
r a riff
,f desired
i
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
THE QUALITY POLISH
KIWI
“Orana”: Palm Valley, in Central Aus-
tralia, a place of wild grandeur, is believed
to be the only spot in the Continent where
the now almost extinct night parrot exists..
One of these birds was observed for a fleet-
ing few seconds by a party which visited the
valley some years ago. At a< later date another
party journeyed there with the object of
observing the birds, but
was disappointed. All
that was found was
some feathers near a
place where a fire had
been made. A picnic
party of abos. had
slaughtered and then
consumed a specimen of
Australia’s rarest bird.
Parts of the valley are
very densely forested,
and have never been
thoroughly explored, so
that there is still a
chance that a live noc-
turnal parrot will be
captured.
* *
“Rob P.”: Fred is
the station’s budding
poet, and it is custom-
ary for him to devote
several hours each night
to his nefarious pastime
—nefarious because he
recites aloud the lines
he has written while he
searches for their coun-
terparts. The other
night he was hard at
it, idyllising the boun-
dary - rider’s daughter,
and been stuck on two
lines for over 10
minutes. “She sat upon
the stockyard gate—the
stockyard gate—she sat
upon,” he, droned. “She
sat upon” Just here
Jim, the motor-mechanic,
who sleeps or tries to
sleep in the next room,
took a hand. “Hoy !” he roared, “tell her to
hop off that gate, will yer? I’m trying to
count sheep through the blanky thing!”
* * * *
“Brusher” : Jacky is capable of developing
an interest in euchre. On the station -where
I spent my jaekerooiiig days there were two
old da<rkies, Mqnner and Tinker. One day
the manager sent me over to the shed (where
there was a game of euchre in progress) to
tell Munner that he wanted him. I yelled
the message out to Munner, and he yelled
back that he couldn’t come. I stepped into
the shed to investigate. Munner was sitting-
in a corner with a horserug. drawn up to
his waist. “Can’t come, Boss,” he repeated
mournfully, “Tinker’s won my pants.”
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: Remarque wasn’t wrong
about the squealing horses. Most prads
THINGS THAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN PUT DIFFERENTLY.
ELECTOR: “What we want is work! Nothing has come into my house lor a month
except the baby bonus.”
MEMBER OF PARLIAMENT: “Yes, an’ if it hadn’t been for me you wouldn’t have had
even that.”
endure shocking injuries and terrible pain
in silence, but there have been exceptions
in my experience. A mare, badly staked in
the chest, screamed like a woman when the
stake was being withdrawn, and a two-year-
SOMEBODY ELSE COULD HAVE THE FUN.
BOSS: "Stick to him, Jacky; it’s only his play.”
JACKY : "By cripes, Boss, mine tinkit you can be in next plurry game.”
old filly which had its muzzle blown away
m an explosion emitted the most piteous
cries I have heard from any living creature.
In this _ respect horses seem to be like
hares. You can wound 99 pussies and they
will struggle dumbly, but the hundredth
one will cry like a baby in pain.
* * * *
“Mako”: Hunting Maoriland’s big fish
isn’t all beer and skittles, as A. Bowyer
discovered at Russell the other day when he
hooked a large mako shark. The big fish
after one of its 15-foot leaps descended in the
cockpit of the launch, striking the angler’s
chair with its nose, and smashing it to
matchwood. The fisherman had
just time to dive overboard, and
the mako took possession, biting
woodwork, and wrecking panel-
ling and metal-work with its
lashing tail. A whale spade
finally dispatched the monster,
which weighed 2281 b.
* * *
"Selma”: The spoilt flapper
daughter of a wealthy back-coun-
try farmer went off to Sydney
on holiday the other day, and
a week later a wire informed her
adoring parents that she, with
three flapper friends, ■ was return-
ing to the farm in a new motor-
car. As dad had never permitted
the lass to steer his old ’bus he
wondered, in addition to being
puzzled about the ownership of
the new car, who was doing the
driving. He .had a full explana-
tion when his daughter reached
home at the wheel and airily ex-
plained she had taken a fancy
to the car and asked the firm to
send the bill to dad. After three
lessons she had started out on the
homeward trek, without a license,
and dad was torn between indig-
nation and pride over her per-
formance. Indignation mounted
when other bills began to come
in. There was one from a resi-
dent of a village a hundred miles
back for a damaged fence, another
from a stockman for the loss of
seven sheep, a third from a hos-
telry where the party, undeterred
by lack of funds, had dined on
the journey. Also there was a
blue paper as a reminder that a
driving license is a necessity in
N. S. Wales. Had looked black
for a week, but he paid the lot
and then bought a three-guinea
mascot for the car. There must be a speci-
ally nice part of Heaven reserved for dads.
* * * *
“Barmecide”: Susy O’Regan, back on the
farm after a« year in the city, sought to
startle the family by lighting a cigarette at
the conclusion of the evening meal. The
family failed to react. Mother feigned indif-
ference ; dad took no notice; the kids ate
on unconcernedly. - Sue, who had expected
shocked protests, was annoyed. She sought
Hrn l if- Ure f rom grandfather O’Regan.
lhmgs have changed since you were a
boy eh Grandpa?” baited Sue. “Ye shpake
the truth, me gurrl; ye do indade,” quavered
the old man. “Niver wance did I knov? me
ould mother to take down her poipe till the
dishes was cleared away and the pigs bedded.
An as for shmokin’ at male times, she was
too much of a lady, that she was.” As
an afterthought he added, “ ’Twas an ould
black clay poipe she smoked, not warn of
thim bits av paper.”
*,* * *
“Kushandu”: While passing through the
Jama area, on the Upper Sepik River, New
Guinea, en route to Wiwiak, I encountered
a series of cleverly concealed mantraps.
These were holes 6ft. to Bft. deep by about
4tt. broad, and from 2ft. to 4ft. in length.
In the bottom of these a number of poisoned
spears about 3ft. long were planted, point
upwards, and each hole was cleverly camou-
flaged t 0 resemble the surrounding ground.
My little dog was the unconscious saviour of
the party, as he slipped through one of the
traps and put us on our guard. There
proved to b.e a network of such pitfalls in
the vicinity, evidently intended to protect
the Jama settlements from raiders.
*. * * *
“Nakhoda”: It is not only in Papua that
soccer (B. 9/4/’80) has been recognised
as a great civilising influence. The second
Rajah Brooke encouraged district officers in
Sarawak to instruct head-hunting tribes in
the British mystery. To-day, husbands, who
could only preserve their wives’ heads bv
standing over them armed while they worked
m the padi fields, now meet their erstwhile
enemies as regularly as do Fitzroy and
Collmgwood. Heads are still required at
birth, wedding and funeral ceremonies, but
they are old ones which are leased from
their owners and which have been so long
in circulation that their features are as
badly in need of repair as those of Queen
Vic. on an 1838 penny.
* * * $
Pick ’; “PY7” (B. 2/4/’3O) notwith-
standing, horses sometimes do cry out under
the sti ess of pain or terror. When the
Tilba. Tilba hotel stable (N.S.W.), in which
was housed the South Coast champion trotter
Hoy, took fire, the stallion stood shivering'
in his box, and all the efforts of his atten-
dant to lead him to safety failed. As por-
tions of the burning hessian ceiling fell on
his back, his squeals were heard; a mile
away. Meanwdiile the outer wall was demo-
lished with axes and crowbars, and when
several men pulled the frightened animal
into the open be tore from them, cleared the
ya*rd gate, and, with his coat still singeing,
careered madly away, screaming frenziedly.
He was recaptured after two days’ freedom
in the bush.
(Continued on page 21.)
A CRY FROM THE MALLEE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’m sitting alone in the Mallee scrub, watch-
ing the sun go down,
Long miles away from the nearest pub and
more from the nearest town.
The wind has eddied and swirled all day,
but now it has sunk to rest,
And I feel fed up as I gaze away at the
sombre, silent west.
They settled us here -when the war was won
in a region of scrub and sand,
The gift for “a duty nobly done” bestowed
by “a grateful land.”
We toiled like niggers to clear our blocks;
we slaved in the dust and heat,
Lured on by visions of thriving flocks and
paddocks of waving wheat.
And this is the harvest of all our hopes, the
fruits of our simple trust—
A stretch of barren and wind-swept slopes
that redden the skies with dust.
And this is the measure of all we’ve won
from seasons of ceaseless work!
I’d sooner be fighting the Christian Ilun or
chasing the pagan Turk.
We have bade good-bye to the city’s joys
and the things that most men prize;
We long for the sound of a woman's voice
and the light in a woman’s eyes.
No wonder a man gets down in the dumps,
with sand in his hair and boots.
When he isn’t grubbing the flaming stumps
he’s cutting the mallee shoots.
But sooner or later the drought must break,
and the seasons change again.
We still have faith, though our hearts may
ache, and we’ll battle along till then.
You’ll get most things if you’re game to fight,
and we’ll reap, our just reward
When .Fortune smiles and the sun shines
bright on hope and a land restored.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD HARRINGTON.


There’s no doubting the
Reserve Strength in
mm
U
Q
£
X
X
A
V
MORE MILES IN EVERY T 1
imri
Dunlop strength is in its re-
markable balance—it is bal-
anced at six points.
The Tread —deeper—wider
clean cut for better traction
and long life.
The Cords —super strong
— positively non - heating
through complete insulation
with heavy rubber.
The Cushion Rubber —•
thicker — more elastic —
greater shock absorption
and protection of* casing.
The Sidewalls —balanced to
distribute road shocks and
load over bigger areas.
The Rim Strip — tougher,
extra cushioned for added
protection.
The Bead —heavy steel wire
embedded in special Dunlop
structure.
Buy Dunlops for better
motoring—greater mileage!
DUNLOP PERDRIAU
RUBBER CO. LTD.
AUSTRALIA ALL STATES
MANUFACTURERS OF
GARDEN HOSE RUBBER BOOTS
WATERP OOF COATS RUBBER BOWLS
RUBBER MATTING
AND EVERY DESCRIPTION OF RUBBER GOODS


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers'
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT fITREET, SYDNEY.
BRAN CUES IN VARIOUS STATES.
0
SILVER CAP
F
==*Sk
BolS
S«uver-Top
S»CC<Ab
dry gin
352 YEARS’
EXPERIENCE
guarantees
its quality
In the square
glass bottle with
the Green Label
ts.
<. (i 1
The
Wool
is
Grown
Shorn
and
Sold
year after year. Its condition, length, quality and
the market for it may vary from time to time. But
under all circumstances this action shows decided
advantages.
SEND THE CLIP TO—
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
SELLING BROKERS. LTD,
Sydney or Brisbane.
The firm's active, able work as salesmen is a decisive
force in producing top market values.
“Si Anu”: Moslem Malaya has been
shaken to its roots over the question of
slaughtering animals. According to Moham-
medan law, no animal may be eaten if
there is blood in its body. For meat to be
fit for consumption, even that coming from
the Government abattoirs, the execution must
be done strictly by rule. The animal must
be held in the left hand with its head point-
ing to the west. The windpipe, foodpipe
and two arteries on each side of the neck
should then be severed with a sharp knife
while the name of God is spoken in Arabic.
The body should then be laid on the ground
so that the blood may escape and the soul
with it. No knowledge is shown of the
A CHORUS GIRL’S DISCLOTHESURES.
PERCY: “This job you got in the chorus won’t mean hard work,
will it?”
CIRCE: “My dear boy, it will mean weeks and weeks of unattiring
effort.”
existence of the jugular. In consequence of
this and othei; religious customs slaughtering
in Malaya is accompanied with fearful
cruelty, and all attempts to establish humane
methods have been frustrated. It takes at
least 10 minutes to slay an animal in a
manner that will satisfy Allah. So deferen-
tial are the British authorities to local
adat that a judge recently exonerated a
poulterer for cruelty to a fowl on ordinary
grounds, but found him guilty of breaking
the religious law on the subject.
GOING TO THE DOGS ALL RIGHT.
FATHER RAT: “I dunno what the country's coming to. Here's two Dago restaurants
shut up and an ironmonger’s shop and a dentist’s place started.”
“Wandit”.: “E.S.” (B. 2G/2/’3Q) voices
the old opinion that a buckjumper once
ridden to a standstill is no good to the show-
man. It’s not always so. It is only a matter
of temperament whether a horse remains
a good buckjumper or not. Some horses,
such as Lance Skuthorpe’s Queenslander
(now dead), have been ridden to a standstill
many times, but it still took a'crack horse-
man to ride him after many years in the
ring. On the other hand, the worst horse I
ever saw was a prad called Hero in Ireland’s
show (Queensland), who was never ridden.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: “Pick” (B. 16/4/’3O)
does not overstate the case when he asserts
that as many as
60 ’possums were
taken from an
area of less than
two acres near Mt.
Cooper (N.S.W.).
I have seen 17
taken off one tree
in three months
and as many as 80
shot in a single
night in a 30-acre
paddock. I can
endorse “Pick's”
statement that
’possums often live
miles from water.
They can live a
long time without
it. _ But the fox
isn’t the ’possum’s
worst enemy “be-
cause he can climb
the trees to explore
the hollows.” Foxes
d ■> occasion-
ally ascend leaning
trees, but I doubt
if they ever catch
a ’possum on or in
a tree. If the
ascent were made
on the outside the
’possum would win
every time ; if from
the inside he would
pop out of the first
hole or into a hol-
low limb where it
would be impos-
sible for the fox to
follow. The goanna
is the ’possum’s
most dangerous
enemy. The prowl-
ing dog or fox may
occasionally su r-
pri.se an unwary
animal on the
ground, but the
reptile gets in his
deadly work wher-
ever his quarry
may happen to be.
A full-grown ’pos-
sum is a fairly
tough morsel for a goanna to tackle, but the
joey is his meat every time.
* * S:
“Fitz” : A settler on the Upper Manning,
North Coast (N.S.W.), found a centipede
under a slab of wood the other day. Noticing
something white amongst its numerous legs,
he investigated and found it was a bunch of
young centipedes, half an inch long, or
thereabouts. All at once the youngsters
began to disappear, running into the old
centipede’s mouth. Leaving the centipede to
its cannibal meal the observer went away.
Looking at it the following day, he saw the
young centipedes among the legs of the old
one again. He painted two of them red for
identification purposes, put them back, and
saw them swallowed with the rest. Next
day the young ones, • including the red-
stained pair, were at their posts again.
* * «
“Wang” : Rounding a bend in the road Jack
and I came on old Jerry Simpkins seated
on a log dejectedly eyeing a horse attached to
a dray loaded with wood. Jerry was almost
exhausted and in a condition bordering on
tears. “What’s up!” he cried, in answer to
a question. “Can’t yer see what’s up? That
lop-eared wall-eyed cow has stuck me up
here fer two hours,
an’ won’t budge an
inch or try to. But
1 mighter known he
wasn’t no good.
He’s had about a
dozen different
owners in two
years. I bought
him cheap from a
Chow a week ago.
Before th’ Chow
had him he was
owned by a Dago,
who bought hi m
from a Swede, who
got him from a
Hindoo hawker.
The hawker got
him from a Ger-
man cocky, who
got him from an
Irishman. Before
th’ Irishman had
he was owned in
turns be Jimmy th’
Spaniard, Tommy
Tarpot th’ abo.,
an’ ole Angus Mc-
Pherson, who bred
him. It’s awful
havin’ ,an animal
like this. I’ve
called him everything I can think of. Th’
damn prad don’t seem t’ unnerstand me?
What can I do?” “That’s easy,” replied
Jack solemnly. “All you’ve got to do is
talk to him in Esperanto.”
* * * *
“Troophorse”: I lately saw an old-time
sing-sing in the Sepik River district (New T
Guinea) in the village of Korogo. A huge
yard was built of sago fronds, surmounted
with painted skulls. Line after line of gaily
painted warriors armed with spears, bone
daggers and other native weapons danced
wildly into the yard to the beating of many
kundus and the noise of garamuts, telling
the people of a kill, as in the days of long
ago. Suddenly a middle-aged warrior, coming
to as if from a trance, dashed into the
middle of the assembly with an axe and
broke down several large wooden carvings
and shields. Evidently this was not part
of the programme. Natives backed away
from him in consternation, many jumping
through the fence of fronds and making for
the river bank, where their canoes were
tethered. When all was deadly quiet the
interrupter delivered a harangue against
head-hunting. I learned afterwards that
this sing-sing was promoted by the elder
men of several near-by villages to stimulate
a renewal of head-hunting raids. Just as
the crowd was forming itself into sectibns
for and against the orator several members
of the native police force came into view
upon the Sepik. Skulls, with other sing-
sing regalia, were quickly hidden, and the
crowd gave as good an imitation as it could
improvise of a market-day assembly.
* * * #
“Tee Essbie”: Whether bagpipes are of
English, Scotch or Balkan origin I wot
not, but they certainly aren’t Australian.
Black brother has a most decided objection
to them. In the late ’thirties, Sir Moore
Neil Campbell’s Bunglegumble station was
subject to frequent raiding by abos. The
natives soon became accustomed to the
crack of rifles, and these and other methods
of defence proved useless against them.
Things were looking black when Campbell, as
a last desperate expedient, took up his bag-
pipes and walked boldly into the open, play-
ing for all lm was worth. The blacks
bolted helter-skelter in all directions and
thereafter gave the station a wide berth.
* * * *
“The Deacon” : I can back up Remarque
against “Elgie” and “FY7” in proof of
wounded horses squealing. The Sabbath
quiet of Penrith (N.S.W.) was rudely dis-
turbed on the day that the nuns from St.
Mary’s (South Creek) drove the old
piebald bequeathed them by Father Phelan
into town and turned him loose in
the school paddock. Father Sheridan's two
creamy ponies were in possession, and they
immediately turned their resentful attention
on the parti-colored interloper. Ranging up
on either side of the venerable prad they
let him have a broadside with their shod
hooves. The screams of the old horse could
be heard all over the town.
* * # j}C
“V.H.R.”: An amazing botanical pheno-
menon is provided by musk (Mimulus mos-
chatus), which, the world over, as far as
is known, has lost its scent. The old
familiar plant thrives in many parts of
Australia, and is particularly plentiful and
healthy in _ the Speck. But the devil a
smell. does it contain, whereas a few years
ago its leaves were popularly used by the
fair ones to scent stored clothing, and it
was also popular as a pot-plant. A few
years ago a firm of American florists offered
a big reward for a plant which still had the
A COUPLE OF ENTHUSIASTIC SUPPORTERS OF THE
“WEAR MORE WOOL” CAMPAIGN.
musky perfume, from which he could propa-
gate others, but none came to light.
* * * *
“ J.E.G.” : I once watched five small brown
ants, of the variety usually found in the
sugar-basin, shifting portion of a defunct
cockroach, and finding the job tough. Sud-
denly they stopped work, and two of them
raced off to a* hole about a yard away, re-
appearing almost immediately accompanied
by a third ant rather larger than them-
selves and enormously over-developed about
the head and shoulders. The small ants
steered the newcomer to the job on hand
by the process of butting him heavily in the
side whenever he sheered off the track, and
after getting him set all hands buckled down
to work. Several inches of ground had been
covered when the big cove downed tools and
made for the hole, only to be promptly col-
lared and dragged back to work. After two
more attempts to scale had been foiled he
got sulky, and it required prodding
by one of the smaller ants"to induce him to
work at all; but eventually the hole was
reached and the provender safely hauled
below. Was the big fellow a slave kept for
heavy haulage purposes, or was he a member
of the tribe whose brawn had developed at
the expense of his brain?
JUST A CHANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
That’s where Old Andy found the slug,
Just there beneath the blow;
Abd over there’s where Pete the Mug
And Simpson had their show.
And a bit further up the hill,
Three chains, or just about— ,
See where that post is standing still—
Is where the gold ran out.
Past there they never got a trace
In all the work that’s done.
And though they tried each likely place
It beat them, every one.
They trenched the surface, underground
’M6st everywhere she’s holed;
It beat them all, they never found
The reef that shed the gold.
'l've often thought of coming out
And giving it a go.
There’s something good round here, no doubt;
But, then, you never know.
For, after all is said and done,
But one thing stands out square :
There’s just a chance, that’s all, and one
Can get that anywhere.
I used to get about a lot;
A whisper was enough
To start me, while the scent was hot,
In search of better stuff.
But, when you’ve followed up the game,
You come at last to know
The chances are about the same
No matter where you go.
But that’s where Andy found the slug—
It soon went up in smoke—
And there’s where Simpson and the Mug
Hung on till they were broke.
And here is where she petered out
And led them all a dance.
There’s something good round here, no doubt,
But still it’s just a chance.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


Wool is Made in
the Stomach
THIS is a fundamental fact that most graziers know.
Although it may not be realised what an important
factor minerals are when taken into the stomach
for the production of high-class, well-grown, good
conditioned wool.
Vita-Lick supplies these essential minerals in the best form.
VITA-LICK LIMITED
Stock Lick Specialists
107 KENT STREET, SYDNEY
eor^e
STO
-the Paste with
the Oyster flavour
Made from the world-famous,
luscious Stewart Island
oysters, St. O'orge “OYSTO"
is a daintily flavoured oyster
paste that will provide, as a
relish dr for sandwiches, that
‘something different’ for which
you are eternally seeking.
Just try it. From all grocers.
Delicious Oyster Soup, too,
can be easily made from
‘OYSTO’ paste. Instructions
on wrapper.
Irvine & Stevenson’s St. Qeorge Co.
Ltd. Dunedin, New Zealand. 4
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CSTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
MAKING EVERY ACRE PAY.
“Vil N.”: oWhen you ai'o mentioning
growers of sub. clover, don’t forget J. P.
Guthrie, the Victorian Senator and noted
authority on wool. Mr. Guthrie, to my
knowledge, has sown 1 ton 16cwt. of sub.
clover seed in 12 months and “supered” every
acre he owns (10,500 altogether). Can
any other landowner in Australia or Maori-
land say the same?
Last year Mr. Guthrie bought Barnoolut,
a 4000-acre property in the Casterton (Vic.)
district. Before actually taking possession
on Oct. 15 he had supered and sown with
sub. clover over 2000 acres, and lie com-
pleted the sowing of the 1 ton lGcwt. of
sub. clover seed this autumn. On this pro-
perty he used over 300 tons of super. The
rainfall here averages 26.40 in.
At Coolangatta, near Geelong, Mr. Guthrie
has his top stud and show team of Corrie-
dales. The whole 1100 acres are under
Wimmera rye grass, and dressings of super,
amount to lewt. per acre per annum. When
purchased three years ago Coolangatta was
carrying one sheep to the acre. It now
carries 24 sheep to the acre all the year
round, and the Corricdales grow out bigger
and better there than even m the Riverina.
The rainfall is 18in.
The Senator also owns Bulgandra, 4800
acres, near the Rand, Eastern Riverina.
When he bought this property not one acre
had been cultivated nor one bag of super,
or grass-seed applied. There are 4000 acres
under wheat on the share-farming system.
The owner cleared all the land, finds all
seed and super, and half the bags, and goes
50-50 in the crop with nine share-farmers.
During the past three years 450 tons of
super, have been used on Bulgandra, and
the wheat yield has averaged 24 bushels.
The pastures have been twice top-dressed.
Sub. clover and Wimmera rye grass have also
been established, and there is a stud of
Corricdales. The rainfall is 19in.
The experimental side of farming has not
been neglected. At Bulgandra 14 new
wheats and various methods of working the
land have been tried; at Coolangatta and
Barnoolut there are experimental grazing
plots, and various artificial fertilisers arc
thoroughly tested. In fine, every acre of the
Guthrie properties is being put to good use,
and whereas the three places formerly sup-
ported 16 people they now support 64.
ROTATION AND PRODUCTION.
“ITortus”: We are urged to produce more,
and by working out a* proper system of
rotation it can be done. Sheep- and cattle-
raising on the one hand and wheat-growing
on the other can and should be backed up
by some other form of agricultural pro-
duction.
I worked for some years on a 600-acre
form in the South Midlands of England.
The climate resembles that of the Northern
Tablelands of N.S.W. The farmer had 200
acres cultivation, 500 sheep, a herd of 90
dairy cows (milked twice a day and the
milk sent up to London), 10 draught horses,
60 young stock in the paddocks, 50 Berkshire
pigs and a 10-acre orchard.
No food was bought, save oilcake for the
stock fattening for the Christmas market;
a*ll was grown on the place. Several paddocks
were shut up. top-dressed with super., har-
rowed and then left during the rainy season
to be cut later and stacked in a large rick-
yard, handy to cowsheds. Crops grown were
wheat, barley, oats, field-beans, field-peas,
rape, mangel-wurzel and potatoes. These
were sown every year, and no crop found
itself in the same ground for two years
running. No fallowing was done except dur-
ing the period between crops. Mangei-
wurzels were “pitted” and the supply lasted
right through the winter.
All cereals were cut with reaper and
binder and stacked, to be threshed later.
The residual straw, after threshing, was
stacked. Wheaten, barley or oaten straw was
run through a chaffcutter in conjunction with
bush hay; mixed with chopped-up mangel-
wurzel, this formed the main winter ration
for the housed stock. During winter, bush hay
and wurzels were- ta*ken round in drays, and
dropped about the paddocks for the sheep and
young cattle. The rams were put on to the
rape—a section at a time. Potatoes were
sold by auction, as they stood in the paddock,
the successful bidder having to dig them and
find his own bags.
All stock was bred on the place. Cows
bearing two successive bull-calves were with
their calves disposed of in the local market.
A London butcher contracted to take sheep
4ind lambs.
The farm was run at a good profit, thanks
to (1) a sound plan of rotation; (2) closing
and top-dressing grass paddocks for winter
hay supply; (3) production of cheap and
abundant winter feed: (4) no money going
out for upkeep of stock.
We cannot exactly follow this style of
farming in Australia, hut we can make the
best use of our ground each year. In model-
ling an Australian rotation, a selection
might be made from wheat, maize, sorghums,
millets, cowpeas, potatoes, mangels, vetches,
rye, peas, rape and oats according to their
season for sowing and the time required to
prepare the land. More top-dressing of grass
paddocks can be done, and the surplus grass,
if not made into hay, can be converted into
grass silage—a practice very common in
Maoriland. N.S.W. coastal farmers should
carry out this silage scheme with the heavy
growth of paspalum at times showing on their
farms. It will be a great stand-by in dry
spells.
WATER FROM WESTRALIAN ROADS.
“Wescocky”: In summer the bush roads
through the 10-inch country in the eastern
part of the Wcstralian wheat belt are almost
as tough as cement. In winter, after rain,
they are dotted with pools which impede
the traffic. For the most part this water is
allowed to go to waste —but not by a shrewd
farmer of my acquaintance.
This man drains the road traversing his
property into a dam. He has a network
of drains about his sheds where the hard-
beaten ground makes the water run. The
result is that he had a good supply of stock
water in the dry months when other farmers
are carting from the Government tank. His
2000-yard dam in the creek bed gave poor
results at first; judicious use of drains from
small natural catchments converted it into
a valuable asset.
Naturally this farmer’s holding is not con-
nected with the goldfields water scheme, but
it is carrying more stock than scores that
are.
STOPPAGE IN HORSES.
“S.N.R.”: “Tumbe Munda’s” suggested
manipulations (B. 16/4/’3O) to relieve
urinary stoppage in horses are too drastic.
Stoppage is usually due to a spasm—
caused by cold or wet —of the closing ring-
muscle (sphincter) at the exit of the bladder.
Attempts to press on the already over-dis-
tended organ may lead to rupture. The
practice of administering diuretics is also
bad.
Try this method first. Give the horse
hypodermically a big dose of morphia—li
to 2 grains. Apply wrung-out hot sacks
over the loins under a rug. Stable on new
straw or sawdust bedding (this is impor-
tant). Close up the stable completely. After
20 minutes or so turn on a tap, or pour
water from one bucket to another out in
the yard but within hearing of the horse.
Whistle while you’re at it —but not a tune.
You’ll be surprised and the horse gratified
at the result.
FOR THE COLD WEATHER.
“Fysh”; Give the pigs a bit of bedding at
night, especially if there are young ones.
If you have no straw, an armful of bracken
ferns, or even grass, will be better than
nothing. If you are feeding them on separ-
ated milk or other cold food, try pouring
a billy of boiling water into each kerosene-
tin of food. The pigs eat the warm food
more readily, and, consequently, do better
on it.
Warm the bit of the winkers or bridle on
a frosty morning before putting it into the
horse’s mouth. Frosty iron burns almost
as badly as hot iron, and a bad tongue burn
might lead to other complaints ; besides, the
animal will always be more difficult to catch
if it associates the bridle or winkers with
pain. If you find it too cold to hold in your
hand, put the bit between your arm and
chest (over your coat, of course). It will
soon get the chill off and be more com-
fortable for the horse.
Rug the cows —or at least the ones which
appear to feel the cold the most. Some
dairymen object to rugging on the score
of time. It takes only about one minute to
throw a rug on a beast and you will be well
repaid for that minute’s work by increased
milk production. A cow cannot settle down
with any degree of comfort or content if
she is shivering all night. If rugs are too
expensive a good substitute can be made
from three cornbags, costing about Is. 6d.
Sew two bags together side by side and
the third along the tops of the first two.
A couple of straps on the top bag to draw
it under the neck and a couple of ropes
sewn on the side of the rug, drawn under
the belly of the cow and attached to the
side of the other bag, complete the job. I
have made a dozen of these bag-rugs on a
wet day and find that they last the winter
out, if taken care of.
TIMBER AND WATER.
“Buckwong” : “Grunter” (B. 6/4/’3O)
asks if there is any truth in the old assertion
that killing the forest dries up the springs.
Consider my experience. A mountain valley
of some 2000 acres was owned by my folks
on the Upper Murray (granite formation).
The valley was densely timbered, except
one side-gully of 40 acres or so, wherein
the timber had died naturally. Near the
bottom of this little gully was the only
permanent water in the valley: a small
spring which, if kept open, would water 20
head of cattle in a dry season. About 45
years ago we ringbarked 200 acres of the
valley. Since then there has been, in the
main creek, enough water to supply 5000
head of cattle, besides equally permanent
water in three side-gullies.
A METHODICAL CITRUS GROWER.
“X.5.A.” : I know a man with 22 acres of
citrus trees which give him about 5000 bushels
each year. He and an employee—-a crippled
lad —do the whole of the work, including
case-making and carting to Sydney (40
miles), and find time to go for a day’s
fishing and play cricket or have a run in
the car every Saturday.
My friend .says he never has to do hard
work because he never lets it get hard. He
does things at the right time, and thereby
lias .nothing to worry about. Visiting his
place while resoiling was going on, I was
astonished to notice the couch-grass and
other pests which were tipped and spread
with the soil.. “One hot day’ll finish ’em,”
he .said. It did. The new soil was worth it.
The orchardist and the lad make their
100 cases per day each, and call this a spare-
time job. They will pick, grade and pack
their 60 bushels a day and see that it is on
the agent’s stand at dawn.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Whereabouts in AGS'.IE. could dairying,
sheep-raising and pig-raising be successfully
combined? What, would constitute a fair
farm acreage in such districts, and price
per acre? —5582.
Inverell, Tumut and Gundagai districts.
Roughly speaking, the average sized farm
would be 400 acres and the price approxi-
mately £l2 per acre.
What experiments are being conducted by
the AGS'.IE. Dept, of Agriculture in peach-
breeding and what results have been obtained
by the investigators? —s924a.
The chief needs of the State in the matter
of peach improvement have been defined to
be the evolution of early canning varieties,
to replace Tuscan and Leader, which are of
poor quality ; the evolution of mid-season to
late canning varieties, some of which are
of unsatisfactory quality and practically
none of which are productive croppers; the
evolution of an improved early variety of
dessert peach, Le Vainquer being the best
early variety at present available, and filling
the gap between Wiggins or Carmen and
Blackburn, which occurs about mid-January.
Early Crawford, Foster, Leader and Conkling
are "the varieties at present grown which
come in here. Early Crawford and Foster
are unreliable croppers and Leader is rather
small and lacking in color for dessert pur-
poses. Conkling is the best of these varieties,
but is irregular in size and could with advan-
tage be replaced. The Elberta peach was at
first largely planted on the Irrigation Area
for canning, but was early proved to be
unsatisfactory, being a freestone instead of a
cling and having soft flesh and an undesirable
color round the stone. This was soon
replaced by more desirable cling varieties,
such as Levis, Pelora, Sims, Goodmans,
Phillips, Golden Queen and Pullars. Of these,
Goodmans is too red at the pit and the pit
too large. Phillips also has too large a pit
and a tendency to produce split pits. Golden
Queen is lacking in flavor, and Pullars Cling,
though a heavy and consistent cropper, is of
an even surface and has a rather bad shape
and undesirable color round the stone. Some
cross-breeding work for the evolution of
superior varieties of peaches was commenced
at Yanco and at Hawkesbury Agricultural
College in 1927.
What are the ingredients of a chemical
fire extinguisher? Would, it be possible to
make an inexpensive chemical mixture for
use on a farm, and could such mixture be
used through an ordinary orchard spray
pump ? —6065.
The ingredients for a hand chemical fire
extinguisher are bicarbonate of soda and
sulphuric acid in proportions according' to
the size of the container, and the combination
is used only for the purpose of expelling the
water contained in the extinguisher. \\ nter
alone, discharged through an orchard spray
pump, should meet all farm requirements.
(1) Must honey for sale in N.SAV. conjoi
to fixed standards, and, if so, what arc they.
(2) Would the Dept, of Agriculture report
on a sample of honey, and could I secure
from it recommendations for improving the
quality of my honey? —6o76-
(1) Information as to standards of purity
of honey for sale within N.S.W. can be
obtained from the Public Health Dept., and
particulars as to the standards fixed by the
Honey Marketing Board can be obtajned
from the secretary, Exchange Building, 54A,
Pitt-street, Sydney. (2) Yes. Send a sample
to the Under-Secretary, Dept, of Agriculture,
Box 36A, G.P.0., Sydney, labelled with your
name and address. A letter should also be
sent advising dispatch of sample and stating
any particulars that might be of assistance,
also asking for advice.
How to rc-oil cow covers? —5933.
Clean covers thoroughly with a brush,
wash with soap and water, and allow to dry.
Then paint- boiled linseed oil into the canvas
with a stiff brush. Apply evenly and firmly,
but not thickly. When dry, in a day or two.
apply another coat in the same manmvr.
(1) How is flax cultivated for fibre and
seed? (2) What market is there in Pic.
for it? (3) Where may seed be obtained? —
5804.
(1) Write to Department of Agriculture,
Melbourne, for leaflet, “Cultivation of Flax/’
(2) There are flax mills in operation in Yie.
at Drouin and Drysdale, and two, the Mar-
nockvale and Colac Mills, at Geelong. In-
tending growers should ascertain from the
managers of the mills whether they are pre-
pared to purchase their crops, and on what
terms. (3) From the mills named.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Vetinindia” : To make a jibber get up, or
a horse that refuses to struggle after being
cast, pour a little carbon bisulphide along
the back. To turn a bolter in saddle, cover
the near eye with your hat if you want
him to go to the right, or vice versa, To
stop one, choke him down with thumb and
first finger in the throat over the windpipe.
“Valerin”: Care should be exercised in
feeding sheep on rice. The proper ration is
five ounces a day. No benefit is obtained
by increasing the allowance up to 120 z.;
beyond that figure “scour” becomes preva-
lent. The rice should be well scattered.
“Wrash” : When cockatoos are troublesome
build with straw or bushes a hiding-place
centrally afield, and allow them to become
accustomed to it. Then get there before
daybreak with the gun, and blaze away.
After a few such matutinal surprises “Cocky”
Will avoid that field as bag-snatchers shun
a police station.
“Minerva”: In districts where limestone
is available one need never be short of lime
Scrape out a hole in the ground, throw in
a quantity of stone, and bank firewood well
round and over the top. When the fire has
burned out it will be found that the wood-
ash has fallen away, leaving a heap of burnt
lime in the centre. Pass this through a wire
riddle to remove lumps and impurities.
“X.S.At”: Nitrogenous fertilisers should
be kept away from fruit trees during the next
few months, even though it is known that
nitrates are naturally deficient during the
cold weather. Nitrogen forces growth, and,
should a spell of warmth set in, may cause
buds to shoot out of season. These will
perish when the frosts come along. The same
will happen if' the trees are encouraged to
burst into life too early in spring.
“Disc Harrow”: When cauliflowers are
approaching maturity go along the rows and
bend one or two leaves over the flowers. The
sunlight spoils the color, and often knocks
the price down. Also, if using pestend and
lime mixture, keep it off the flowers, as it
leaves a brown stain.
“Erua” : I always use a small saw for cut-
ting up old rubber tyres, keeping it well
oiled; a knife (also well oiled) can be used
for finishing off. Rubber heels and soles can
be cut very quickly this way.
“Fysh”: Most farm soldering-irons are
thrown down anywhere. File the iron and
brighten it up; this will help to make a
more workmanlike job. When the iron is
hot, rub it on a bit of sal-ammoniac; it
will “pick-up” the solder and spread it
better.
“Croson”: “Grow more wheat” by all
means if you’ve got the land, but for
Heaven’s sake don’t grow more fruit. At
two places in Doncaster (Vic.) lately I
was told to take home as many pears as
I liked. Looking round I found the growers,
both orchardists and dairy-farmers, were
feeding ripe pears—Williams and Packliams
—to their cows, a bucketful with each meal.
The yield of milk was noticeably increased
in both cases, but it hardly pays to prune,
spray, work and pick pears to feed cows.
(Continued on page 25.)


Pontiac’s continued reliability assures
satisfaction that increases with the miles
w
u
A
Ml
m
am
"W7HENEVER you meet the owner of a Pontiac
Six you will invariably find a satisfied
man. And the longer his experience with
Pontiac, the greater his satisfaction will be.
He will tell you in glowing terms of its con-
tinuously reliable operation of the
thousands of miles of trouble-free service that
it has given him. He will boast of the little,
if anything, that he has spent on repairs, and
of the very occasional
adjustments that have
been necessary. He will
confidently assert that
no other car within its
price range could assure
him such satisfactory
service and such a low
cost of maintenance.
If you are mechanically
minded, he will show
you the many exclusive mechanical features that
are the basis of Pontiac’s reliability, and will
point out the sturdiness and staunchness evident
in every detail of power plant and chassis.
Pontiac dealers everywhere will tell you the
same story of reliable operation and satisfied
ownership. They will show you the several
beautiful models and will gladly supply a car so
that you can appreciate the power, smoothness,
comfort, and ease of con-
trol that Pontiac offers.
They will also be pleased
to explain the advan-
tages of the General
Motors’ Warranty and
the convenient purchase
scheme available under
the G.M.A.C. plan.
GENERAL MOTORS
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Brisbane - Sydney - Melbourne
Adelaide - Perth.
No other motor car
offers all these features
at Pontiac’s low price!
A 200 cubic-inch L-head engine—The Har-
monic Balancer The G.M.R. cylinder head
The cross-flow radiator —Automatic temperature
control Fully counter-weighted crankshaft —
Aeroplane type interchangeable bronze-backed
bearings A I.]; inch carburettor including an
internal economizer and an accelerating pump —
A petrol pump, in place of the conventional
vacuum tank Special patented expansion-type
piston pins Full-pressure lubrication Crank-
case ventilating system Internal-expanding
4-wheel service brakes of the most efficient type.
PONTIAC
it’s a GENERAL MOTORS car—look inside and note the difference l


all the Wealth
that Music
provides, is you rs
if you own a
'///,. 'wy//, 'ww/* "*m
BfColumbia
wm m.
Columbia
4e mrtd’&Dest,
sas
✓H
2L
/
i
ass
S
/
MODEI M? ICQ a
MODEL N 9 112 a
800
Sach Model ninth carrier in lid for eight records
MUSICAL science has produced no more efficient and self-contained unit
of harmony than this portable.
Learn to enjoy its blessings to the fullest, and to savour its deep an
enduring source of pleasure and entertainment to your friends and
companions.
With a Columbia Portable you recapture the zest and vim of the latest tox
Trot, the haunting cadence of a celebrity singer, the rollicking chorus of
your favorite musical comedy, and the inspiring wistfulness of a alkie
ballad. , ... .. ,
It is sturdy, compact and neat-its weight and size is a negligible factor
Take it with you on your travels. It will always be there, readily accessible,
the unfailing friend.
sdf
sdf
Portable
a ...
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS.
VIC.: Columbia Distributors (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 300 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
N'.S.W.; Uraionoia, Lta., 39 Liverpool street, Sydney
QUEENSLAND; King & King, Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane.
A. E. Harrold, 123-125 Charlotte Street, Brisbane,
W.A.
S.A.:
TAS,
: Columbia Supplies (Tas.) Pty., Ltd., Launceston, Hobart and Burrne.


\
31
m
m
Perfect foot-ease
This Abbey Shoe, built in the
smartest style, omits nothing that
makes for ease in wear. The upper
is arched so naturally over the instep
that all strain is eliminated. And
the sole leather is the toughest
obtainable. Low-cut sides further
enhance its appearance. . .. ensuring
snug,, comfortable fit at ankle.
ORDER BY POST.
There are full and half sizes, each
in four fittings, narrow, medium,
wide and extra wide. Specify width
when ordering, and ask, also, for
the correct Abbey Polish (6d. per
tin), or one of the handy, new
cleaning outfits (2/6 complete).
Black Velour Calf, 42/-
Sporting catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street, and 224 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,’’ SYDNEY.
FPL 174.
'Does
your
mirror
reflect
rough.
pimply
skin?
=32
THEN USE
Cuticura
and have a clear skin!
ANOINT the affected parts with Cuti-
cura Ointment . . .Wash off in a few
minutes with Cuticura Soap and hot
water and continue bathing. Pimples,
rashes and all forms of skin troubles
quickly yield to this treatment.
Ointment Is. and 2s. Soap Is. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sayers
Green
sd
Seal
FOR
Remedy
ALL STOMACH WORMS
BLACK DISEASE & FLUKE
The One Remedy Cures All.
1 + C ' ,^ ar^on Tetrachloride per sce. dose.
s to the gallon; about five sheep treated
for about one penny.
\i „ , , INTER-STATE AGENTS:
N S' 1 Pi”]' 3 , LOal * and Mel ' c ' A o elle y> Rockhampton
Dalgety & Co Bnstae
Gollin & Co Melbourne
Goiiin & co.
King Lawless, Ltd "Auckland,™
Manufactured by
SAYERS, ALLPORT PROP., LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Sydney.
? f la ® S and M , eta l Syringes, holding scc. and acting as
Measuie and Drenching Syringe, 10/6, post free
Chandler
Ringlock Fencing
RINGLOCK FENCING.
D. & Chandler, Ltd., pioneered
the manufacture of Ringlock Fenc-
es in Australia, and this has now
superseded all other forms of farm-
fencing. Our Chandler Ringlock
Fencing is recognised as the strong-
est fencing on the market.
Chandler Ringlock Fencing is a
wonderful improvement on the ordi-
nary five- or six-line fence, as it
is a combination of droppers and
laterals. All the wires are crimped,
and the special Ringlock Knot is
formed around the cross wires, thus
making them absolutely non-slip-
pable. The fence is, therefore,
sheep- and cattle-proof.
Style RLS is an ideal sheep or farm
fence. The droppers are 12in.
apart. Five lines spaced from the
bottom 5,6, 7 and 8 inches apart
to a height of 26in. The top and
bottom wires are 10-gauge; the
three other laterals, droppers and
all ringlock knots are 12-gauge gal-
vanised-wire.
Prices;—
5/9
per chain for 5-chain
rolls.
£l9/15/-
per mile.
Special heavy Chandler Fencing (10-gauge
throughout). Prices for RLS are 0/3 per
chain for 5-chain rolls, or £22 per mile.
Send for list of the new REDUCED
Prices of other styles.
We also stock Waratah “Hinged-
joint” Fencing. Send for particulars.
NOTE.—The prices quoted are
strictly cash with order.
Manufactured at their Fence and Gate
Factory, G reeves Street, Fitzrov, by
D.SW. CHANDLER LTD.
FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY.
AND AT WARRNAMBOOL, BENDIGO.
HORSHAM, BALLARAT AND PORT-
LAND, VICTORIA.
.sTeJ®®fesT
AUCKLAND, N.Z. (Acc. 160)
“Only UNLICENSED Hotel-de-Luxe”
C.T., P.S., and Auto. Ass’ns’ House.
Days, 15/- (two or more, 14/-) ; Weekly, 84/-
“Special” rooms (h. and c. water), 16/- or 98/-
TnE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. MCLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
W&W26.
MlMsi
HE
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
fds
brand
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association EJ;
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Farm Accounts.
EXAMPLE 3.—M. Middlebrook, who lias been carrying on a farm for several
years, starts to make up liis P. and L. Account and Balance-sheet covering the twelve
months to June 30, 1929. His Trial Balance is as follows.—
M. Middlebrook, TRIAL BALANCE, as at June 30, 1929.
i i M. Middlebrook, Capital Account | x I j] iiooo O O
„ Drawings Account | 2 | £260 0 0
| Land Account 3 | 850 0 0
| Unsold Produce (June 30, 1928 ) 4 60 0 0
| Improvements Account 5 236 0 0
Livestock 6 825 0 0
Overdraft | 7 300 0 0
Wages 8 206 14 8
Stock Feed, etc., Account 9 75 10 0
Rent Account 10 60 0 0
Freight Account 11 30 6 8
Repairs Account 12 25 17 4
| | General Exes. Account 13 23 12 2
| i Interest Account 14 | 17 10 0
| I Taxes Account 15 j 10 14 6
| ! Produce Sales Account 16 768 10 6
| | Rations Account 17 25 0 0
Sundry Income Account j 18 62 10 6
Petty Cash in Hand 119 6 7 10
Debtors 20 40 0 0
Creditors |21 | 111 0 0
Cash in Bank |22 44 7 10 |
|| :
£2797 1 0 | £2797 1 0
Rent accrued to June 30, but not paid, amounts to £20, and there is £6 owing in
respect of wages. Interest (two months’) amounting to £3 10s. has accrued on the
overdraft. Journal entries, debiting P. and L. Account and crediting the expense
accounts, must be made for these. Depreciation at the rate of 7| p.c. must be allowed
on Improvements (debit P. and L.; credit Improvements Account). Livestock is
valued at £950, and unsold produce, etc., at £35 10s.
Here are the Journal entries: —
JOURNAL.
1929.
iuii,-|.„,| rront and Loss Account, Dr. 123 I ±504 15 4 Tj
| To Wages | 8 11 £206 14 8
„ „ (accrued) |8 | || 6 0 0
I „ Stock Feed, etc. j 9 | 11 75 10 0
I „ Rent 110 | || 60 0 0
| „ „ (accrued) |10|| || 20 0 0
| „ Freight |11 1 1 30 6 8
| ., Repairs (12 || 25 17 4
„ General Exes. 13 || 23 12 2
| ., Taxes ■ 15 11 10 14 6
., Rations 17 25 0 0
„ Interest 14 17 10 0
| „ „ (accrued) 14 3 10 0
| Being balances of expense accounts in Ledger
| | transferred to P. and L. Account, and pro-
| | vision made for accrued expenses.
„ | ., | Profit and Loss Account, Dr. 23 60 0 0
| To Unsold Produce 4 60 0 0
| Unsold produce taken into last year’s figures
at previous balance offset against this year’s
| sales.
„ | „ | Unsold Produce Account, Dr. 4 35 10 0
| To Profit and Loss Account 23 35 10 0
Being valuation of unsold produce and stores
| as at June 30, 1929, on hand and with selling
| agent.
| r
„ | ,, | Produce Sales Account, Dr. 16 768 10 6
| | Sundry Income Account, Dr. 18 j 62 10 6
To Profit and Loss Account 23 I 831 1 0
Being transfer of balances on income account
| to P. and L. Account. [
„ | „ j Livestock Account, Dr. 6 | 125 0 0
| To Profit and Loss Account 23 | | . 125 0 0
Being excess of livestock valuation ( £950) at _ |
| June 30, 1929, over book value ( £825) at I | |
| same date. | 11
I * 1 M
„ | „ | Profit and Loss Account, Dr. |23l| 17 14 0
| | To Improvements Account |5|i 17 14 0
Being depreciation at 74 p.c. written off | 11
| | Improvements Account. ' j j j
EXPLANATION. —The first entry closes off the expense accounts, and transfers
their balances to P. and L. Account. For instance, Stock Feed Account, which the Trial
Balance says lias a debit balance of £75 10s., now has a credit of an equal amount
(thus “closing” it), the debit now appearing in P. and L. Account. In the case of
Wages Account, in addition to transferring to P. and L. Account the debit balance of
£206 14s. 8d. (representing wages paid during the year), the £6 accrued but not paid
is also taken into account, thus leaving Wages Account with a credit balance of £6.
The same principle applies to Rent Account and Interest Account. The balances of
these accounts, after preparing the P. and L. Account, are included amongst the
liabilities in the Balance-sheet.
The second entry brings into account the produce on hand unsold at the beginning
of the term, and which now has to be debited to P. and L. Account. Credit was taken
for it in the previous term. The third entry brings into account this yeax-’s produce
on hand unsold, Unsold Produce Account being debited, and P. and L. Account credited.
The fourth entry transfers the balances of the income accounts (Produce Sales Account
and Sundry Income Account) to the credit of P. and L. Account. The fifth entry adjusts
the value of livestock; this asset appears in the Trial Balance at £825, but the valuation
at June 30 is £950, so the profit (£125) must be transferred to P. and L. Account.
The sixth entry brings into account the depreciation of Improvements.
The balances on Stock Feed Account, Freight Account, Repairs Account, General
Exes. Account, Taxes Account and Rations Account are automatically wiped out by
transfer to P. and L. Account. Similarly, the balances on Produce Sales Account and
Sundry Income Account are transferred to P. and L. Account, and the accounts closed.
The accounts which have not been closed have to be taken into the Balance-sheet figures.
Here are the first five Ledger Accounts (in order to save space details of the year’s
transactions are left out, arid only the totals or balances of the various accounts given)
after p. and 1. adjustments have been made. The rest will be given next week.
M. Middlebrook, CAPITAL ACCOUNT. (No. 1.)
Ml II Z 1929. | | =
| June 30! By Balance I £1555 0 0
I i L_i ' ■ - __j i _
M. Middlebrook, DRAWINGS ACCOUNT. (No. 2.)
1929.1 | | || I .1 ! ' | I
June 1301 To Balance I 11 £260 0 0 | | I
II ~ I II I. _ I I 1 I _
LAND ACCOUNT. (No. 3.)
1929.1 “ ’ ill - : • ; ■ " ! =
June |30| To Balance | 11 £850 0 0 U j
I 1 MJ J_J I
UNSOLD PRODUCE ACCOUNT. (No. 4.)
1928.! I I I I I ||
July | 1 I To Balance | | £60 0 0 1929.| | | ||
3929.1 | ' I | June |30| By P. & L. A/c |£60 0 0
June J 301 „ P. & L. A/c j | 35 10 0 ., | „ | „ Balance | 35 10 0
II 11 £95 10 0 I I ! £95 100
July | 1| „ Balance I || £35 10 0 | | III
i 1 J IL - l l I Li
IMPROVEMENTS ACCOUNT. (No. 5.)
1929.1 | l|| 1929.1 I | .||
June 1 301 To Balance I ||£236 0 0 June 1301 By P. & L. A/c | || £17 14 0
J J j II ». TBalance ! 11 218 6 0
I II II | II ,—:
1 1 1 l|£236 0 0 I I I 11£236 0 0
July |1| „ Balance I 11 6 0 | I | l| '
L_L .. L II l I I 1 11


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The .service is entirely free. All you have fo do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” ; or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Respectable man, Sydney, wants job as handy, or
on orchard or farm. Ca.i ride and drive and has
had exp. as storeman. —6097.
Middle-aged lady, Sydney, wants position in
country home, assist all duties. Small remuneration.
—6091.
Returned soldier (35), N.S.W., with native super-
visory experience, speaks Malay, wants position in
Islands'. Refs. —6090.
Blacksmith, N.S.W., ship and engine work, metal-
liferous and coal-mining and well-boring exp., used
to oxyacetylene welding, wants job anywhere. Refs.
—6089.
English widow, journalist, Uni. graduate, musical,
cook, teacher and nurse, desires work or home in
wild islands. Refs.—6oBB.
Scotch housekeeper, Q’land, two boys, exp. all
domestic duties, wants position on farm, small
wage.—6os6.
Band conductor, N.S.W., wants engagement and
Job town or country. Refs.—6o74.
Lady (25), N.S.W., eight years’ exp., wants
position on station as storekeeper, book-keeper or
companion, or as saleswoman. Refs. —6006.
Young man (19), Hawkesbury Dip. of Ag., with
N.H.W. land exp., wants job on farm or station.
Refs.—6oo7.
Single man (35), Sydney, handy rigging, painting,
cooking, tools, etc-., wants job anywhere.—6o3l.
Educated man (29), with building, mechanical
and clerical exp., wants work anywhere.—6o2s.
Married man, S.A., two children (11 and 7),
grazier beaten by drought, several years’ commercial
•xp., desires position as overseer, book- or store-
keeper ; wife, housekeeper or governess. Go any-
where. Refs.—6o2o.
To exchange 13-roomed house in Sydney, fully
furnished, value about £2500, for newsagency.—
6034.
To buy “The Mutineer” ; “Tales of Old Regime,”
“Federal Capital Pioneer’’ (first numbers), early
Australian newspapers.—6o46.
Married couple, N.S.W., flower-growing commer-
cially, comfortable home with two acres land,
beautifully situated, would like to meet congenial
couple to share expenses and co-operate. Refs,
exchanged.—6o4s.
Whereabouts of Alfred George Payne, corporal in
15th Battalion, A.I.F. —6002.
Words of “Shooting of Dan McGrew,” “Gunga
Din,” “Green Eye of Yellow God.” —6081.
Words of poem beginning “How swift is the
glance of the mind.”—6loo.
Whereabouts of Joseph Leo Wilson. Was, employed
by Prickly-pear Board, Q’land.—6o99.
Words of poem, “Sorry to Go.” —6103.
To buy Cassell’s “History of the Franco-Prussian
War” (two vols.), or will exchange with Cassell’s
“History of India” (two vols.). —6067.
To buy or borrow “The Lone Hand” (June,
1912), or “The Journalist and Two Bears,” by
James Edmond, or any publication containing
Edmond’s “Barrios, Consul for Galatia.”—6o77.
Words in French of Massenet’s “Elf-gie.”—-6069T
To buy or borrow pre-war issues of “British
Journal of Photography Almanac,” especially 1910.
—6062.
Words of “Battle Hymn of the Republic.”—6os7.
Whereabouts of Sergeant Copeland and his son
“Argus,” who used to give exhibitions of telepathy
in Maoriland. —6011.
To buy or hire Overbeclc’s rejuvenator, without
batteries.—6lo7.
Civil-engineering draftsman (23), single, five years
senior draftsman on sewerage, two years on structural
and mechanical, wants position anywhere. Refs.—
6109.
Information Sought.
I am 25 years of age and wish to study
for admission to the N.S.W. Bar. (1) What
is the procedure, and must - / attend the
University? ' (2) I low are Judges' asso-
ciates appointed, and what are their quali-
fications, duties and salary? —s996.
(1) It is not necessary to attend the Univer-
sity. Tuition may be obtained from a coach.
The exams, to be passed are a preliminary
or law matrie., the subjects in which are
Latin, geometry, algebra, history and either
Greek or French or logic and psychology
(a leaving certificate covering these subjects
is equivalent) ; a*n intermediate or law
history exam.; and a final, divided into two
sections and covering generally the body of
Common and Statute law and Equity. All
this accomplished, the student, if of good
character, will be admitted to practise in a
profession in which the prospects, without
influence, are not attractive. (2) They are
usually taken from the ranks of young barris-
ters or of students-at-law; their duties are
to some extent secretarial, and salaries are
fixed by arrangement.
(I) Does money that is in Chancery in
England accumulate interest, and can that
interest he claimed with the principal? (2)
How to set about recovering funds held in
Cli ancery ? —5980.
(1) Depends on the circumstances of the
case and the nature of the property. (2)
Communicate with the Assistant-Paymaster-
Goneral, Whitehall, S.W.I, London, giving
dates and full particulars.
/ have been in the habit of using the vaccine
prepared by the Commonwealth Health
Dept, for the prevention of influenza. 1
have heard that it has been condemned as
dangerous by German authorities. Would
you advise me to discontinue using it? —
6080.
The vaccine as prepared by the Common-
wealth Serum Laboratories is generally
accepted by the medical profession as being
harmless and no report of ill effects following
its use has been received. If it is doing
you good, continue its use.
What is the x correct method of calculating
the value of the charging resistance in a. radio
accumulator circuit for any given charging
voltage? —6os4.
Subtract tlie accumulator voltage from the
charging voltage and divide by the a*mperagc
charging current, then subtract the accumu-
lator resistance in ohms. This resistance is
very low in the case of large capacity bat-
teries cod may be omitted. If the charging
voltage is 30, the accumulator voltage. 20 and
the charging current five amps, (internal
resistance neglected), the resistance will be
two ohms.
(1) What arc the chances of a young,
capable man as stock- and sharebroker?
(2) Any special qualifications? (3) Best
way to become efficient? (4) How long
would it be before a young man should be
capable of opening for himself ? —5850.
(1) Depends on himself. Success mea«ns
big money. (2) This Department knows
successful brokers who were respectively
shorthand reporter, school-teacher, miner,
tanner, draper and banker (several) before
they took on the other work. Mostly they
were hard workers, quick a*t figures and cool,
(3) Get a job in a broker’s office. (4)
Depends on liis adaptability. But he must
buy a seat, too, on a Stock Exchange, which
will cost him anything from £lOOO upwards,
according to the city he’s in.
How could a naturalist secure commissions
from overseas zoos to supply them with Aust.
specimens? Are there any restrictions re-
garding the sending' of Aust. fauna out of
the country? Where do the overseas zoos get
their present Aust. supplies from? —6105.
The regulations in force do not allow pro-
tected birds and animals to be exported by
any save zoological gardens to other zoo-
logical gardens. Private dealers are per-
mitted, in most cases, to deal only with un-
protected stock. Particulars in respect to
the exportation of animals can be obtained
from the Collector of Customs, Circular
Quay, Sydney.
(1) How can Shepherd's Blanket be identi-
fied? (2") Method of eradication? (3) Is it
p oisonous ? —6115.
(2) It is a stout, erect, woolly-white
biennial plant. The stem is unbranched, or
with one or two branches at the top. The
lower leaves are tufted, spreading on the
ground in a large, thick rosette; they are
oblong, light green, densely woolly, tapering
to the base, four to 12 inches long. The
flowers are yellow and on long, dense-flowered
cylindrical spikes. The capsule is globular,
two-celled, downy, and filled with many
brown seeds. (2) Isolated plants should be
cut, or the weed kept under control by-
cultivation. The time to get rid of this plant
is in the seedling stage, before the stem
which bears the seed pike has emerged from
the rosette of leaves. It has a fairly strong-
tap-root, and is hard to shift when once
established. (3) No.
(1) On what part of the N.S.W. coast is
yellow grass-tree gum to be found in paying
quantities? (2) Market value? (3) Is a
license necessary, arid where obtainable? I
reside at Appiri. —s964.
(1) In the metropolitan district —Appin,
French’s Forest, Long Bay. (2) £8 to £3 ss.
per ton on rail or wharf, Sydney, for best
yellow. Robert Bryce and Co., 414 Kent-
street, Sydney, are buyers. (3) You must
hold a products license, obtainable on applica-
tion to senior forester at Windsor. Royalties
are payable on gum taken.
(1) Is there a market for charcoal? (2)
Average price? (3) Main uses? —s96o.
(1) No active Australian market. (2)
About £3 to £3 10s. per ton in bags, f.o.r.
country producers. (3) Insulation in refri-
gerating plants, blacksmith’s fires and pro-
ducer gas plants. ,
What is the state of the roads from
Brisbane northicards up the coast from a
motorist’s viewpoint? —sB2la.
Brisbane to Petrie (16 miles) : Bitumen
roads. Petrie to Gympie (110 miles) :
Mostly bumpy to rough dirt roads, inter-
spersed with short stretches of good main
road. Gympio to Maryborough (55 miles) :
Fair. Maryborough to Bundaberg (77
miles) : Bumpy to fair. Bundaberg to
Rockhampton (227 miles) : Rough in parts,
otherwise fair. So far the roads are traf-
ficable even in moderately wet weather with
the aid of chains, but from Rockhampton
north the roads are impassable after rain
and closed to traffic for some months during
the rainy season, which is from the end of
December to the middle of April.
i The roof of my shed is of weatherboard
and some of the boards are split. Can I
make it watertight with paint, and would
that be cheaper than covering with corru-
gated iron? —-5822.
Can’t recommend paint, even if you
trowel it on in paste form. Cover the boards
with corrugated galvanised iron or sheets of
fibro-cement, properly lapped.
If I posted a letter containing a £lO
note, and registered it without disclosing
the nature of the contents, could I recover
£lO from the Postal Department if it was
stolen? —589.0.
The dept.’s liability in such a chse ik
limited to £2. Under Postal Regulation 143
you can get full insurance by declaring value
and paying a fee in addition to ordinary
registration and postage.
(1) When does the ' cane-cutting season
start in Q’land? (2) What chance is there
of obtaining employment? —s76s.
(1) About the beginning of June in the
north and in July in the Bundaberg and
Nambour districts. (2) Preference of em-
ployment is given to members of the Aus-
tralian Workers’ Union and a first preference
to men who completed last season.- An
outsider without experience has little chance
of being engaged.
(1) Is flic 'possum season opening shortly
in Tas.t (2) For liow long? (3) Was the
season open last year? (4) Are Tas. 'pos-
sums superior in fur quality to those of
Q’land? —5675.
(1) Yes. (2) June Ito August 15. (3)
No. (4) Yes.
(1) How many woollen and tweed mills
are there in Australia? (2) Number of
employees? (3) Value of materials used?
(4) Value of output? (5) What do they
chiefly produce? (6) Similar information
regarding hosiery and knitting mills?* —6o4o.
(1) At June 30, 1928, there were 57. (2)
11,638. (3) £4,172,120. (4) Y 7,601,435.
(5) Tweed cloths, flannels, rugs, blankets,
shawls arid yarn. (6) There were 242
hosiery and knitting mills operating through-
out Australia during 1927-28, with 9880
employees, and output valued at £5,186,351.
What were the causes of the Lambing Flat
riots, and ‘where and when did they l occur?
—6055.
Lambing Flat was a goldfield at Barran-
gong (N.S.W.). Chinese, froth Victoria
came on to the field and the white miners
complained that they, spoilt the ground,
preventing it from being reworked. In
December, 1860, the Chinese were driven
out; a second riot followed the return of the
Chinese early in 1861, but ended with the
arrival of. a military force and the departure
of the Chinese to other fields.
What are the main conditions governing
loans of pictures .to N.S.W. country centres
by the National Art Gallery of N.S.W.?—
6000.
The building in which the loaned pictures
are to be exhibited must be as near fire-
proof as possible-—-stone or brick, not weather-
board —and it must be open to the public.
The Gallery pays freight and insurance. No
charge to the public for admission may be
made. They already have loan collections
at 23 centres and it’is becoming difficult to
supply late requests.
What are “willy willies'’? In what pari
of Australia do they occur, and during what
time of the year? —6o42.
Cyclones peculiar to the north-west coast
of W.A., whei’e they are experienced from
November to April.
In a recent newspaper account of religious
persecution in Russia there is reference to
“the Siberian witch-doctor Shaman.”, Who
was he? —5319.
The name “Shaman” is applied to priests
of Shamanism, the religion of the Ural-Altaic
people. The Shamans are not only priests
but medicine-men and prophets, and are
supposed to possess supernatural powers.
What is the cost of running each of the
seven Parliaments in Australia, and how
many members docs each contain? —-5912.
Commonwealth (1927-^8), £473,288 ; mem-
bers, Upper House 36. Lower House 76.
N.S.W.. £302,880 ; 94, 90. Vic., £128,507;
34, 65. Q’land, £115,118 ; one House 72.
S.A., £89,166 ; 20. 46. W.A., £118,190; 30,
50. Tas., £49,266; 18, 30.
'How is the N.S.W. Parliamentary Stand-
ing Committee on Public Works appointed?
What pay do its members receive and, what
are their duties? —s99o.
It is a joint committee of members of the
Leg. Council and Leg. Assembly, appointed
by ballot as soon as practicable’ after the
commencement of the first session of every
Parliament. The committee consists of three
members of the Leg. Council and four mem-
bers of the Leg. Assembly. It has ; powers
under the Public Works Act to prosecute
inquiries, to summon witnesses, and to com-
pel the production of books, etc. The chair-
man receives as remuneration £3 3s. for
each sitting of the committee, and other
members £2 2s. each. Proposals for public
works of an estimated cost exceeding £25.000
must be submitted and explained by a Minis-
ter in the Leg. Assembly, and -then referred
to the Public Works Committee Jor report.
What material and equipment arc required
for brazing jobs that can’t be done on a
forge? —sB77.
A painter’s Primus kerosene, blow-lamp
can be used. The parts to be brazed should
be carefully cleaned, preferably with a file.
Borax should be used as a flux and spelter
either in stick or granulated form. If the
job is a large one, it should be carefully
packed round the part to be brazed with
charcoal or coke to retain tlia heat. In
cases where sufficient heat cannot be main-
tained to make the spelter run properly,
silver solder, which has a lower melting
point, could be used.
(1) What is the procedure to change a
person’s name? (2) If a married man
changes his name must his wife take steps
to change her name also? (3) Does the
change take effect immediately? (4) Must
the change be notified through a newspaper?
(5) Must the children separately take action
to change their name? —6079.
A change in surname may be effected
merely by usage and without formal pro-
cedure. It is, however, usual, and the better
course, to execute a deed poll drawn up by
a solicitor, and file it in the Registrar-
General’s Department in the State in which
the person is resident, paying a fee of 2s.
Wife and children then assume the new
name. It is usual but not obligatory to
advertise the change.
A bought a suburban allotment fromß,
the agreement referring to “all that piece
of land known as No. 1 Blank-street,” the
boundaries of which had stood (in line with
others) for over 20 years. After several
years’ instalments were paid a municipal
survey cut off a portion of the block as
encroaching on a street. A claims from II
d corresponding reduction in price. How
does this stand at law? —6032.
If the agreement included a survey plan
of the section, with exact measurements,
your claim for a rebate would be a strong
one Make a claim and, if it is refused, put
all the facts before a solicitor and be guided
by his advice.
What is (1) weight; (2) cooling system:
(3) number of cylinders; (4) revs, pet-
minute; (5) price in of A.I. .
Scorpion 35 -h.p- aero engine?—-ob:)A
(1) 1091 b. (2) Air-cooled. (3) Two,
horizontally opposed. f 4) 2300 at 34 bfi-D-;
2500 at 38 b.h.p. (5) Details obtainable
from agents, Aircraft Manufacturing and
Sunniv Co,, Geelong (Vic.).
Brief Answers.
E.G.: All right, for its purpose, but adds
nothing to Henley A.8.P.: The marks can t \>e
removed by home remedies. If you are fit in other
respects they will disappear... .F.E.B. : (1) An in-
fective disease caused by the Bacillus lepra. (2)
Many and varied. Chiefly of two kinds: (a) Tuber-
eular leprosy and (6) anaesthetic leprosy. (3)
Patients live for many years and then complications
ensue. (4) Yes. (5) Varies. (6) Great success
has attended treatment with ehaulmoogra oil and
other remedies... . N.L.: In Nov., 193 d, Mussolini
suppressed all parties in Italy with the exception
of tlie Fascist party. All newspapers in opposition
to the party have been suppressed or converted into
Fascist organs. Most of the leaders of the Catholic,
Socialist and Republican parties are now in exile.
... .G.H.W.: Apparently you did not stipulate that
the sale should be for cash. You could risk an
action in the Small Debts Court, but in the absence
of a written agreement you would be met by diffi-
culties. A letter from a solicitor might have some
effect... ,C. 8.: Harvesting expenses can be in-
curred without the consent of the person who gave
the lien; such expenses do not take priority over
the lien C.D.: (1) Wills made by persons under
21 are invalid. (2) Yes. (3) it is taxable irre-
spective of motive. (4) Inquiry might be made
and the husband would have to show that the wife
had no interest in the securities. .. .F.C.: To advise
it would be necessary to know the contents of the
building covenant and other particulars. The best
course would be to place your own interests in the
hands of another solicitor. .. .U.P.: The inhabitants
'of Tristan da Cunha are descendants of shipwrecked
sailors and soldiers who remained behind when the
garrison from St. Helena was withdrawn in 1817.
Many attempts have been made to induce the in-
habitants to leave, but they apparently prefer to
remain on the lonely island. .. .R.N.: Molasses is of
value as a horse feed in making such feeds as straw,
etc., palatable, in increasing the carbohydrates con-
tained in the food, and in acting as a mild laxative.
. ...S.M.D.: The only book we know is R. Scherer’s
“Casein” (13s. 6d.), obtainable from Dymock’s Book
Arcade, Sydney. N.S.W. Dept, of Agriculture may
be able to furnish literature on the subject....
N.T.: (1) Frederick Garling came to Sydney as a
child in 1815. He is said to have painted a picture
of every vessel that arrived in Port Jackson between
1830 and 1870 —as he was a landing master he had
full opportunities. He was probably the first Aus-
tralian marine painter. (2) The Mitchell Library,
Sydney.... M.L.: Bennett and Wood, Ltd., Went-
worth-avenue, Sydney (8.5. A.) ; Williams, Ltd., 40
Went worth-avenue, Sydney (Raleigh) ; Maxell and
Moore, Ltd., 36 Campbell-street, Sydney (Triumph).
. ...R.M.D.: Mellone’s “Introductory Textbook on
bogie” and Welton’s “Groundwork of Logic”....
G.W.X.: The books have no value... . W.D.: A
license must.be obtained to make or sell margarine
in Queensland. Manufacturer’s license costs £1 p.a.;
eller’s,. 10s, p.a. Apply Department of Agriculture,
Brisbane.., .8.D.: Queensland has no general “Yeai
Book,” but issues a bound vol. of “Statistics of
Queensland” (17s. 6d.), an “ABC of Queensland
Statistics” (25.), and various departmental reports
and bulletins. Complete list of publications from
Govt. Printer, Brisbane... .R.R.L.: Consult Camp-
bell’s “Simple Tests for Minerals” (3s. 6d.), Barker’s
Bookstore, Brisbane... .J.E.8.: Write Department of
Lands, Melbourne and Sydney... .M.H.: On volumes
only: Cost of freight, insurance, exchange, customs
entry and landing, approximately £6 the set. On
book table: about £5... .G.H.0.P.: So far as we
can ascertain, the representatives of the Ann have
returned to London. The address is Godfrey
Phillips, Ltd., 114 Commercial-street, London, El.
~. .M.J.8.: (1) In the absence of a definite “school
rule” the fairest way is for the holders of the two
hands to divide. (2) Two pairs, ■ three :of a kind
affil ‘ a straight.... 6x9 : In many 'cases pain from
r snake bite is severe. .. .J.M.D.: (1) The order for
witnesses to leave the court includes, as a rule, all
save medical witnesses. (2) He claims expenses on
beha-lf of the witnesses, to whom they should he
paid. . Tlie magistrate may allow professional costs
on such scale as he thinks fit... .F.H.8.: (1)
Patents Office, Pretoria, the Transvaal, South Africa.
(2) Get in touch with Griffith ,and Hassel, 77
Castlereagh-street, Sydney. . . .W.H.G.L.: Address
care of H. E. Fenton, Friars House, New Broad-
street, London, , EiC.2 ... .E.H.C.: .' There are no
departments of the sort in Australia. The Criminal
Investigation Branches in the various States conduct
such inquiries. .. .A. A. : The book has no value....
E/a.’W. : See reply No. 5961 Service Page (B.
23/4/’3O) .. . .R. 0.11.: (1) The Millaquin Sugar Co.,
Ltd., is the only one mentioned on your list that
manufactures refined sugar in addition to making
raw sugar. (2) No prospectus has been issued to
our knowledge... .Y.A.F.K.: Consult “Pigs,” by 11.
W. Potts R.G.: Write to the Chief Protector,
Aboriginal Department, Charlotte-street, Brisbane.
. ...E.T.J.: Tomlinson’s “Exercises on Railway
Eiigineering,” Raymond’s “Elements' of Railroad
Engineering,” Crandall and Barnes’s “Railroad Con-
struction” and “Military Engineering” (Part VI),
issued by War Office, London. .. .V.N.: Consult 1\ .
.1. Rainbow's “Guide to the Study of Australian
Butterflies”... .U.C.: Sorry, but newspapers pub-
lished in N.S.W 7 . are forbidden by law to furnish
details concerning sweeps conducted outside the
State... .Elston: Send a specimen of the mistletoe
to the Director, Botanical Gardens, Sydney,, for
identification. There are so many species of
the genus J.M.: We can recommend the
work. ° Angus and Robertson, Sydney, will let
you have a copy (21s. post free) on approval....
W.A.S.: “Ensign Calder” (Is.), obtainable from
N.S.W 7 . Bookstall Co., Sydney A.W.T.: A leaflet
on methods of spaying cattle recommended by
N.S.W 7 . Department of Agriculture, can be secured
from Stock and Brands Branch, 56 Bridge-street,
Sydney. Instruments from Denver Bros., George-
street, Sydney.... W.F.M.: The suggestion would be
quite feasible for the purpose required N.S.: (1)
Four. .(2) 50a. 3r. 25jp A.C.W.: Communicate
with the Department of Labor, Old Treasury Build-
ings, Spring-street, Melbourne, and give full par-
ticulars, including name of employer. .. .E.M.k. :
(1) W 7 rite to the W r ar Office, Whitehall, London.
(2) Get pamphlet “How to Join the R.A.A.F.
from the Air Board, Department of Defence, Mel-
bourne G.C.: On the facts stated you appear to
be liable E.M.: Robert Bryce and Co., 414 Ivent-
street, Sydney, are buyers of good quality wattle gum.
. ...C.C.: Where there is no provision in an agree-
ment for the sale of goods on time payment, for the
return of the goods in case of default in payment',
the' vendor has no power to recover the goods but
only the right to sue for the balance unpaid....
R l * “Process of Flour Manufacture, b\ P. Amos
(8s 6d.) : and “Flour Milling, by P. A. Kozntiii
(38s (id.), Dvmocks, Sydney H.J.: Pumpkins
are useful as food for cattle, but require the additio >
of a considerable amount of concentrates to make
„ balanced ration. • The same applies to. melons,
etc and r00t5.... S.E.F.: For Ha wkesbury River
(N.S.W.) districts the varieties of. maize recom
mended for grain are: Early crop: Golden Superb :
main crop: Large Red Hogan, Fitzroy, Yellow Hogan
or Learning. ...N. A.: “A Ballad of Bvgoloree” is
bv Kenneth Maekay and included m his Songs of
V Sunlit Land”. .. .C.D.T.: Apply to the - Country
"Reference Section, Public Library of N.S.W., Sydney,
which will send catalogues and information on
request.... (Many others mailed.)


Is your mirror
warning you?
©
5
lUUI
©
©
lUUI
gS)
<
©
©
©
i AiimiA
Constipated ? No, you willsay indignantly.
But does your mirror say no, too ? Does it
show a muddy skin, eyes tinged with yellow,
a coated tongue ? If so, nature is warning you
that you are suffering from incomplete elim-
ination. Your system is not entirely ridding
itself of its daily waste. There isaresidue of de-
cay poisoning your bloodstream, sapping your
vitality,spoilingyourenjoymentoflife.Beware
of constipation —and particularly unsuspected
constipation. A glass of Eno’s "Fruit Salt”
every morning gently dismisses the waste
toxins from your system before they havehad
time to be absorbed into your blood. Eno is a
sparkling saline drink, pleasant to take, and
natural and complete in its action. It has been
prescribed by doctors for sixty years as the
one safe and simple preventive of constipation
NO'S FRUIT SAIT'
words Sno and "tyruit Salt” are registered trade marks .
Sales JZgents: THE BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE Sc CO., LTD., SYDNEY, N. S.W.
WHILE YOU ARE
IN ENGLAND,IT If YOUR CAR
We have a plan that is much cheaper than hiring : you buy
the car and when you return, we buy it back.
Write to us sometime before you sail and we will send you
a list of cars with prices. Before you buy, we guarantee
to repurchase the car you choose at an agreed price. This
is infinitely cheaper than hiring, there are no restrictions
on your use of the car and you risk no loss at resale. And
it is convenient. Once your purchase is settled you have
nothing more to do. The car can meet you on landing-
all formalities completed by us and, if you wish, you may
have the use of a uniformed driver for three days without
charge.
Write to us now, and we will send you full particulars of
our Guaranteed Repurchase Plan and the really helpful
service it provides.
AUTO AUCTIONS
BURLINGTON GARDENS Opp. Burlington Arcade
OLD BOND ST. LONDON W.I
World Distributor* or the Blackburn Bluebird Light aeroplane—side by side seating
5 X/// *
1
I
“Tasted Better?”
“ Never! ”
—and you too, will agree when
you taste the piquant flavour of
this rare old Liqueur.
As far back as 1534, Francis I.
gave the new elixir, Benedictine,
his Royal endorsement in en-
thusiastic terms. To-day,
Benedictine is still the choice
of connoisseurs and discrimi-
nating hosts the world over.
As a Liqueur its wonderful
flavour and delightful bouquet
have placed it in a class apart.
A dash of Benedictine in your
cocktails will improve them
tremendously. Try it !
Benedictine was dis-
covered by the Monk,
Vi nee lli, in the year
1510. In addition to
its undisputed superi-
ority as a Liqueur,
it has highly valuable
tonic and digestive
qualities .
BENEDICTINE
For Four Centuries the World 1 s Supreme Liqueur


WioM
rdtqr
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
The centre or Queens/onc/s
' c// 'st>npu/st>ec/ Soc/o/ Life.
sf
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE ----- BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
The World’s largest Commercial Forestry Co.
Subscribed Share Capital £240,619
Bonds Subscribed exceed £3,400,000
Funds lodged with Trustees exceed • • £450,000
(Including over £250,000 invested in Australian Government Securities.)
Area planted Approx. 120,000 acres
Bankers Bank of New Zealand and their Agents
Head Office Ivembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney
Sole Brokers Smith Wylie & Co., Ltd.
Branches: Throughout Australia, New Zealand and the Federated Malay States. London, Bombay,
Java, Hong Kong and Shanghai.
Where /hall I Jlay|j
(jROSVENOR
Finest Unlicensed ZHotel
3pp. Railway Sin.. North Terrace. ADELAIDE
At the
GROSVENOR
Because it’s near-
est to the Railway
Station, all trans-
port facilities, and
theatres. It offers
300 fireproof rooms,
100 bathrooms, the
best of food, the
Tariff:
From
£3/10/-
weekly
SMOKE-OH!
As soon as Easter fell this year a lot of
people started to trip.
* *
An unreliable statistician points out with
reference to a recent crime on the N.S.W.
railways that this is the first train robbery
since the advent of short skirts.
* *
“An unusual phenomenon occurred in the southern
sky at 7.59 pan. on Friday. A large comet or
meteor appeared. Unusually bright, with a long,
fiery tail, it crossed the sky and disappeared in
many sparks.”— Melbourne “Herald.”
Presumably a visit from Mr. Hughes’s
Australian party.
¥ *
This age of insincerity makes moralists
depressed;
Its lack of strong opinions they bewail;
With bitterness they argue that the only
ones possessed
Of genuine convictions are in gaol!
BRISK BUSINESS.
“Been selling much lately?"
“Yes; every blessed thing except my pictures.”
“At the Praliran Court a man was fined £1 for
knocking down an auctioneer.”
The charge no doubt was that accused
infringed the auctioneer’s monopoly.
# *
“Mr. Scullin said that though insects caused a
huge loss, none of Australia’s universities had a
Chair of Entomology.”— “Argus.”
They’re probably afraid of Labor white
ants.
# *
“The play is founded on Mark Twain’s romance
of the same name, which was written by Mark
Twain. ’ ’ — “N ews.”
Thus ends the controversy: “Was Mark
Twain Edgar Wallace?”
* *
A NEW CHAMPION.
Many Records Go by the Board.
There was tense excitement yesterday at
the classic Liverpool-street (Sydney) con-
vincing-ground when Comrade Tonald Go-
slowski, Champion of the Tramway Perma-
nent Way Dept., essayed to break the slow
pick-swinging record of 2hr. 47min. 4sec.
established in George-street last year by
Comrade Bill “Drowsy” Bowyangs, of the
City Council. A wager of 50 long beers was
at issue, and a special cask promised by the
Soviet Government was also involved.
Tonald made a sensational start by taking
37imin. to lift his pick, and lbr. sfmin. to
get into position to swing. Both times estab-
lished new world records, and rest-fans in
the crowd cheered wildly in recognition of
the fact.
Passengers in the hundreds of trams that
were held up by the display also demon-
strated warmly.
Excitement increased when, with his pick
still Ift. 2in. from the ground, Tonald passed
the time which earned the Port Said marvel,
Comrade Abdul Muk, a sound thrashing from
a tyrannical employer in 1926. Showing no
signs of distress, the Tramway crack went
on to beat the Southern European figures
established in Naples in 1809, but at 31ir.
4min., with the pick still 4in. from the
ground, the police intervened. The record-
beater, who by this time appeared on the
verge of collapse, was assisted to the Duck
and Dodge by friends, backers and officials
of the Trades Hall.
Seen later by a representative of the “No-
Workers’ Weekly,” the champion was obvi-
ously flushed with success or something.
“I have been seen to betier advantage,”
he said, “on private jobs where capitalist-
inspired police interference such as disgraced
my performance to-day is unknown. In
Victoria, on one occasion, I drew a month’s
pay without doing a hand’s tap, and in addi-
tion sabotaged a donkey-engine and several
shovels. Unfortunately the effort in ques-
tion was not performed under championship
conditions. Comrade Bowyangs claims to
be my master, does he ! Ha, ha! I’ll under-
take to lead-swing his head off any day of
the week, and there’s a hogshead of the best
waiting at the Duck and Dodge to prove it.”
Percy Pawnticket.
# *
THE PREYER
“Girls should go down on their knees every night
and pray for good husbands.” — Sydney parson.
Most girls, though in the public’s sight
They seem indifferent amd gay,
Pray hard for husbands every night —
For husbands are their lawful prey.
* ¥
“Doctors in England have discovered a sure cure
for influenza.”
That’s rum!
“The modern diner is a mammoth creation.”— “S.
M. Herald” on the arrival of a new steamship.
It is remarkable, too, how much some of
them can stow away.
# *
“Many silent stars have no hope in the talkies.”
They’re too funny for words.
* ¥
“Captain Brown, when not at sea, had hoarded
with me for 17 years.”— Police-court witness.
One of these tar boarders.
“I’m only an old seadog.”— Police-court defendant
charged with offensive language.
He was fined for bringing bis bark ashore
with him.
OUTCAST.
A man with a price on his head
Must feel like a worm or a rat,
And blush as I blushed
When I found that I'd rushed
Back from town with the price on my hat.
DEAR LITTLE CHAP (at conclusion of the children’s hour): “Thank
Heaven, that’s over! Now let’s tune in to the Stadium,
Uncle,”
“Norval Smith, who said he had an interest in
his father’s drapery business in Surry Hills.”
His name is Norval; in the Surry Hills
His father sells his frocks.
if. *
“He was booted to the spot.”— “News.”
Mrs. Nag complains that it doesn’t take
such methods to get her old man to it.
SOME SUICIDES.
“The head of the Japanese Customs Union, on
being charged with embezzlement, immediately com-
mitted hara-kiri.” —Sydney daily.
From a Japanese daily:—
John Toutem, head tipster of a Sydney
sporting journal, .committed suicide yester-
day by drinking racecourse whisky. In nine
days’ racing he had tipped no less than 45
Josers-r—a Commonwealth record. His work
came to the ears of the Government and
he was appointed understudy to Mr. >-• .
of the Weather Bureau, but he performed
the rash deed before taking over his new
duties. He is believed to have been worried
at the prospect of only being allowed to
mislead the public at week-ends instead of
six times per day as in his previous job.
Chagrined at his failure to fulfil a pro-
mise he had made to restore peace oh the
northern coalfields within two weeks
if Labor was re-
turned to power,
Mr. Deodar, M.P.,
last night swal-
lowed three tons of
hisownwords.
Writhing in agony
he was removed ro
hospital, but p'n
arrival there life
was pronounced
extinct.
The death oc-
curred yesterday of
Mr. Stuart Boil in
tragical circum-
stances. Mr. Boil
recently acquired
an Indian talisman
famed for its power
to grant any wish
made by the pos-
sessor. In a mo-
ment of idle curi-
osity Mr. Boil ex-
pressed a wish for
the ear of a musi-
cian. Shortly after-
wards he attended
an audition of the
Mighty Wurlitzer
at the Paradox
Theatre. As the
i n s t r u m entalist
struck up a Beet-
hoven sonata, in-
geniously adapted
by Levi Xsymke.
of Hollywood, to “Always Stick to Your
Mother, Goilie. Sugar-daddies is Bums,"’
Mr. Boil was seen to go deadly pale. A
devoted Floor-Colonel, w 7 ho was in the great
impresario’s confidence, first tried to get
his master outside, and as an alternative
proffered a pair of patent ear-muffs designed
to deaden sound. In vain. Mr. Boil sat
on and deliberately allowed himself to be
wurlitzered to death. A public fui
be given by the Starving Pro. s Assoc.
A NECKLACE OF NEGATIONS.
“The Continental tour has been
the cricketers, some of whose tiain acq are 0 f
not only not heard of cricket, but were aware
its existence in Australia. - S. M. . ■
It recalled my last meeting with Brown^
who had not only
not been fishing,
but had caught no
fish. Knowing that
he had never been
married, and fur-
thermore had no
wife, I not only
tapped him on the
shoulder but, in
addition,, asked,
“How’s the mis-
sus?’’
“Not only is she
not ill in hospital,”
he said, “but she
has been dead for
three years.”
Then I discov-
ered that the man
I had addressed
was not only not
Brown (whom in
point of fact I had
never met) but
may have been a
woman by the
name of Briddle-
kerk.
I am not only
not going to buy
any more of the
brand of whisky I
had been drink-
ing, but I am
not aware what the brand was.
FI. H.
if if-
“l tliink that in this year’s footwear fashions the
straight toe and heeel will come first.”—“ HeraldV’
It certainly gives the maximum of e’s.
“At a recent banquet in America the toasts were
honored in iced water.”
As the poet sang: “Drink to me only with
thine ice.”
# if-
“ Assaults on detectives will be punished with the
utmost severity.” —Sydney magistrate.
He wants to make the world safe for
demonocracy.
AN ARISTOCRAT, TOO
“’E’s a thoroughbred—if ger notice, 'e's got the same dignerfied
deportment as yerself, lady.”
“Twenty years ago women loved to overdress;
but all that is changed.”— “S. M. Herald.”
A case of off with the old love, on with
the nude.
“Found Browned: Bankrupt’s End.” — “Sun.” _
Verdict: Chronic inability to keep Ins
head above W’ater.
FRANKLY SPEAKING.
Bill’s girl is fast and furious.
While mine’s extremely slow;
Bill’s girl wears undies curious,
But my girl’s are a blow.
The righteous take Bill’s girl to task;
My girl, though plain, is good.
Woulld I swap her for Bill’s? you ask.
My oath, I would!
D.
SACKCLOTH.
I hear the, politicians rant and hr ay
That we are broke and life seems very grey.
With tariff walls they block the inward flow
Of luxuries —a most unpleasant blow —
And everywhere I hear the dismal wail
That one and all must give up calces and ale.
Ah, me, ’tis sad to think the long hours
through
That all our golden days must now turn
blue.
J. S.


m
New Chrysler "77" Royol Sedan,
sdf
proves what it IS by what it DOES!
A motor-car proves what it is by what
it does. That the new Multi-Range
Chryslers are swifter in pick-up than
other cars—smoother in flight—faster
in climbing hills —easier to drive—are
provable facts.
This new Chrysler performance is the
result of such advancements as the
Chrysler Multi-Range four-speed trans-
mission and gear shift with its quiet
Acceleration Range that combines the
pick-up of “second” with the smooth
flexibility of “high.” Shifting gears back
and.forth between forward speeds can be
done at any car speed without clashing.
Another fundamental is Down-Draft
carburetion, which introduces the most
advanced fuelising practice.
In the midst of all to-day’s claims and
counter-claims, Chrysler suggests a
demonstration. Thus
you may learn for
yourself why Chrys-
ler inspires a pride
all its own.
FEATURES: Large, powerful engines;
seven-bearing counter-weighted crankshaft;
multi-range four-speed transmission and
gear shift; rubber spring shackles; Chrysler
weatherproof four-wheel hydraulic brakes;
larger, roomier bodies; adjustable front
seats.
MULTI-RANGE
MC6 1 2
ER
THE
77
WITH MULTI-RANGE GEAR SHIFT THE
m
WITH MULTI-RANGE GEAR SHIFT THE
66
THE LOWEST-PRICED CHRYSLER SIX
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales ... Larke, Neave & Carter , Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Lanes Motors Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Ward Motors, Limited, Brisbane
West Australia Wm. Attwood Motors, Ltd.. Perth
South Australia Southern Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania Metro Motors Pty., Ltd., Hobart
Neu) Zealand Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea W. R. Carpenter & Co., Ltd.. Rabaul


Agricultural Implements Prohibited
Mr. M. J. Rodney, Managing Director, to-day made the following Statement
on behalf of the International Harvester Company of Australia Pty., Ltd.:
The action of the Federal Government
prohibiting the importation of certain lines
of agricultural implements was given wide
publicity in the press, and various guesses
were made in regard to the effect upon our
business.
I was absent on a business trip in W.A.
at the time, otherwise an earlier statement
would have been made on this subject.
In order to make clear what this Com-
pany’s policy is, and has always been, in
regard to duties imposed upon machines and
various products that we purchase and
import I wish to quote briefly from my letter
to the late Mr. G. E. Hudson, Chairman of
the Tariff Board.
On May 12, 1925, Mr. Hudson addressed
a letter to me, in which he afforded me an
opportunity to appear before the Tariff Board
if I should so desire and give evidence with
a. view to assisting the board in discovering
the burden, if any, imposed upon the primary
producers by reason of the tariff.
When Mr. Hudson’s letter reached our
Melbourne office, just as in this instance, I
was absent on a trip to W.A., and on my
return here on June 5 I replied to Mr. Hud-
son’s letter, and respectfully declined to
appear before the Tariff Board.
There would be no good purpose served
by bringing up at this late date the action
taken by the board when I declined to accept
their invitation to appear as a witness. We
have never protested in any manner against
duties imposed upon machines and products
that we purchase and import to Australia,
and on this point I wish to quote from my
letter of June 5, 1925, addressed to Mr.
Hudson, the Chairman of the Tariff Board,
as follows: —
“This is a matter that is wholly in the
hands of the Australian people, and that
is as it should be? and they will decide
it in the manner that seems best to
themselves, and in what they deem the
best interests of this country, regardless
of anything that we might say, and we are
perfectly willing to abide by their decision,
whatever it may be.”
This was our answer to the board at that
time, and is now our answer to the recent
action taken by the Federal Parliament pro-
hibiting some of the lines we purchase
entering this country. We accept it in the
same spirit that wo have always accepted
increased duties —without protest.
We realise that there are some importers
in this country, and in evei’y country in the
world, who have no investment, and there-
fore no real interest in the country. Import-
ers of this class have few employees, if any.
There is, however, a very marked difference
in that kind of a concern and our Aus-
tralian Company. McCormick and Deering
machines have been sold in Australia very
close to half a century. We therefore have
a reasonable right to claim that we have
played a very important part during tli'
early days in assisting to build up and in-
crease the wheat industry of Australia long
before implements were manufactured in
this country.
During the pa-st harvest season I made a
trip in the Ballarat district, and in talking
with a good farmer he pointed to a binder
that he had just bought with which to take
off last year’s crop. He told me that 26
years ago he purchased a McCormick binder
for £32 and that this was the first new
machine he had required since that time.
He stated further that nevertheless that he
had to pay two and a half times the price
for the new machine that he paid for the old
one that the prices that he was receiving
for his wheat and other products were not.
very greatly in excess of the prices that lie
received at the time that he could purchase
a reaper and binder for £32. Our machines
were supplied to many old and well-known
firms in this country, such as Sandover and
Co., George Wills & Co. and H. ,T. Wigmore,
of Perth, in the days when they were known
as “Coast. Outfitters.” The old well-known
firm of McLean Bros. & Rigg, of Melbourne,
who were the predecessors of McEwan and
Co., handled the McCormick machines for
many years prior to the establishment of the
Company’s own branches and organisation
in this country, and it lias had its own
organisation and been operating its own
branches for nearly 40 years.
The present Company was established in
1902, and is now operating under a Com-
monwealth charter issued to it by the Com-
mon wealtli Government on the 26th day of
June, 1912, International Harvester Com-
pany of Australia Pty., Ltd., is separately
owned and financed, and is locally managed
in the same man-
ner as all other
Australian c o n-
cerns. Under its
charter it is grant-
ed all of the rights
and securities to
carry on its busi-
ness as outlined in
the charter, and it
has every confi-
dence in the integ-
rity of the present
Federal Govern-
ment and the
people of the Com-
monwealth of Aus-
tralia to abide by
the terms off the
charter issued to it
at that time and
to fully protect its
rights under the
terms thereof.
With every confi-
dence in the terms
of its charter it
has invested large
sums of money,
running into mil-
lions, in Australia,
and established
valuable city offices and showrooms in addition
to large storage and assembling warehouses
and service stations in the principal cities of
each State of the Commonwealth.
To carry on these establishments success-
fully it has been necessary to employ many
hundreds of people, including a large number
of office employees, managers, assemblers,
servicemen, salesmen, experts and others.
Our salaried employees when taken together
with our retail commission agents through-
out the Commonwealth, multiplied by the
average number in a family, means that
approximately 6000 Australian men, women
and children are being maintained each day
in Australia as a result of our investment
and activities. All of these employees with
the single exception of six men are Aus-
tralians. A large number of Australian
young men, who are now in the early forties,
holding important positions, have a record
of more than 25 years’ continuous service
with this Company. During the years of
their service our employees have been well
paid, and in addition thereto we have estab-
lished for their benefit and protection a pen-
sion system, whereby a substantial pension
is provided from the funds of the Company,
to which the employees are not asked for
any contribution. The entire fund is pro-
vided from the profits of the Company.
In addition thereto we purchase hun-
dreds of thousands of pounds’ worth of
products of Australian manufacture; in fact,
one Melbourne machinery plant is kept going
the greater part of the year on the orders
that we give it. The product that we pur-
chase from these various plants gives em-
ployment to a large number of Australian
workmen that are indirectly paid by our
Company.
Furthermore, we disburse annually in
cash tens of thousands of pounds sterling
for —
Fire and Marine Insurances,
Coastal and Rail Freights,
Printing and Advertising, etc.
If any of our employees who have a record
of a few years’ continuous service should
become ill or incapacitated before the retir-
ing age the Board of Directors is empow-
ered to grant their pension, and this gives
them a sense of security that is worth while.
All employees are eligible for pensions, and
the amount of the pension they receive is
based upon their salary during the years of
their employment. The maximum pension is
£420 per year, and a large number of men
now on our pay-roll will be entitled to this
sum when they reach the retiring age. These
men have had a feeling during all of the
years of their service that they were building
an asset for themselves to take care of them
and their families in comfort should thev
outlive the period of their usefulness.
I may add also that it is our policy that
the salary of none of our permanent em-
ployees is ever discontinued on account of
illness, no matter how long or short the
period of illness may be. We do this on the
ground that especially men with families
need their money much worse during illness
than when they are in good health.
Naturally when it was announced that
agricultural implements were on the pro-
MR. M. J. RODNEY,
Managing Director, International Harvester
Company of Australia Pty., Ltd.
liibited list these
hundreds of em-
ployees who have
been with us so
many years were
greatly perturbed,
but they, as well
as the many thou-
sands of clients
who have pur-
chased our reapers
and binders, mow-
ers and rakes, and
other implements,
over a period of
40 years, before
these machines
were ever made in
Australia, have our
assurance that we
will not desert
them.
I may say that
while we purchase
and import agri-
cultural i m p 1 e-
ments by far the
larger percentage
of our turnover is
on the larger lines
that we handle
that are not manu-
factured in Australia, and therefore do not
come in competition with the local manu-
facturer.
Our turnover on the prohibited lines is
at best a very small percentage of our total
business. Due to the high protective tariff
that has been in force since 1921, we have
been obliged to sell those machines at high
prices. The protective tariff, together with
what might be called “Natural protection,”
which is made up of casing for export,
inland freights, ocean freight, marine insur-
ance and other charges, makes a total of
right around 100 per cent, protection for
the local manufacturer, and this has had
the effect of forcing the price, particularly
of our harvester-threshers, to about double
the price of the locally made article.
In this connection I may say that, due to
the high tariff, we discontinued the importa-
tion of one of the important lines (stripper-
harvesters) some years ago that Is now on
the prohibited list, and the harvester-
threshers that we have been importing do
not really compete with the locally made
machine in any manner. For instance, one
of the well-known locally made Sft. cut
header-harvesters retails at £169 on what is
known as “No. 1 Terms.” It is 38cwt. The
10ft. cut retails at £207 on No. 1 Terms,
and it is 42cwt. This machine is a ground-
drive. This means that it takes its power
from the ground instead of being power
driven. We import a Oft. ground-drive
machine that retails at £325. Its weight is
3 tons 4cwt. We also import a 9ft. power-
drive harvester-thresher that retails at £395.
Its weight is 3 tons Tcwt.
The locally made machine and the one
that we import are designed and built on
entirely different lines. Our machine, it
will be noted, is very much heavier than
the locally made article. The locally made
machine is fitted with a comb, and our
machine is fitted with short guards, similar
the locally made article. The locally made
machine strips the crop, and our machine
cuts it, and puts all of the straw right
through the machine. It has a very heavy
peg-drum and great capacity. This is why
it will handle down and heavy, tangled crops
that are infested with thistles, and therefore
in certain seasons, when the crops are heavy,
and some very good crops are infested with
thistles, the entire crop would be lost, and
go back into the ground, as it is easy to
understand why a machine fitted with a
comb cannot handle a heavy crop that is
full of thistles. The thistles must be cut
right off and put through the machine with
the straw.
My best estimate is that this heavy, high-
priced machine of ours has not taken more
than 3 per cent, of the total harvester-
thresher business of this country, and yet it
has saved many hundreds of thousands of
bushels of grain for the farmers that other-
wise would have been lost.
We carry only very limited stocks of these
machines, as due to the high price the
farmers buy them as a rule only in the
occasional years when there are down, heavy
and tangled crops that cannot be saved
with the locally made machine.
In the years of heavy crop I have known
some of these machines to have been sold
from one farmer to another as many as
times, and in this way they saved five crops,
and it is an easy matter for ns to fnrmsli
proof that it is a common thing for '
machines to have been sold from one farmer
t„ another two or three times, thereby saving
two or three crops; consequently it wou d
appear that the prohibition of a machine o
this type might be the cause of consi .er-
able loss to the Australian wheatgrower.
j ma y mention that practically all o c
Uie i; nes that have been prohibited are made
w ithin the British Empire, as we purchase
them from the International Harvester
Company of Hamilton, Canada. We are
obliged to bring all of the lines that we
import in each year at a considerable period
j u advance of the time that they will be
re q U j rc d, and our importations are always
based on an average season’s crop. Unfor
tunately for the past two or three seasons
the demand has been greatly curtailed, due
to droughts affecting large areas in practi-
cally all States. Therefore heavy stocks of
a ii 0 f these lines have accumulated in our
warehouses in all States ; in fact, we now
have on hand a sufficient supply to meet
normal requirements for a period of about
two years. Our position therefore so far
as these lines are concerned is unchanged,
as we w ill be able to supply our clients with
tbe i r requirements for at least the period
~b o ve mentioned, and therefore if prohibition
sliomld be continued we will be able ,to re-
adjust our position to meet the situation.
j may gay further> that unemployment in
loeal manu f a cture has been due entirely to
the bad geagong rather than to the small
nt of the total business that im-
erg haye been able t 0 se cure on the pro-
Mbited Hneg due to the high dut ies, and
conge t high prices at which they have
been obliged to sell the hues affected. I
knQw that the local manufacturers are fully
, awape of thi and will agPee with this
K a n ® me 1 , . lp
The most disturbing feature of the whole
situation from the national jfandpoint to-day
» P resent low P nce °* wh( T at a " d
high cost of production. This is not only
& „ 4. +llo TO i lpq i-.
a matter of grave concern to the wtieat
„ . , wlmnt-
growers of Australia but to the wneat
wers of eve country in the world. By
over-production appears to be the
eause thereof. What can be done
P J the price on a payable basis is
diffi - * of golution . g om e coun-
* resolutely in a big way,
? ne ? lia ™ ta ? K ! ed 11 resoiuteiy m . nrdprlv
having for their purpose a plan ot orderly
a 1 , to
marketing. So far, however, according to
4. 4., , „„„ ; m uffprent
press reports they have met with maineiem.
8 The farmers of one country have
advige(J to « Grow Less Wheat” as the
others aPe trying different plans.
, ■ . f n i qn „
It is possible that from the various plans
1 . , .
that are now being tried put some way may
be founc j t 0 put tlie wheat-growing industry
of t i u , world on a more stable and payable
basis, whereby the wheatgrower may be
reasonably assured of a fair return for his
hard work and the many ns s mu en
In inion there aTe two ways that
arc pract i C al in which the wheatgrower of
Australia can be helped to reduce his cost
of production.
(1) By reducing the costs of his farm
equipment, and
(2) By putting into effect a plan wheiebi
he can be assisted and shown how to pro-
“^ a m0 D re wheat per aere .
Tho wheat gr o wers on the lands in the
better districts of all States of the Common-
wealth have made a study of soil culture.
They are men of substance and able to
purchase good equipment, and they are doing
mighty good job of wheat-growing, as
g . ood ag any farmer in the world, but they
are j n tbe minority. I have been on farms
in the Western District during the past
harvest season, and saw the farmers taking
i^ever^ofhe P wheaSroXl
£ armf j rg are not so favorably situated, and
j s these men, who are beginners, and
who have, not had much experience, that
need the help. In many instances, these
men, due to the fact that they started with
gma u capital, are unable to purchase suffi-
cient equ i pme nt, and their horse-power as
a rU i e j s n ot enough to do the work properly
that they undertake. There are thousands
w itli a limited and irregular rainfall, and
under these conditions it requires a real
understanding of soil culture and methods of
conserving moisture in order to make even
a moderate success. This class of farmer
should be helped and taught that intensive,
and nob ex tensive, farming pays best. Far
boGer 0 b ave 200 acres well fallowed and
well cultivated that will produce 8 bags per
aC re than 400 acres indifferently farmed that
will not produce more than 3 or 4 bags


'
255
-■
f/ \
01°
tor
os.0 s .
m
“The sooner
\jou SIMONIZ
Your Car
the Better!”
DUCO
in its
Beautiful Vivid
Colors Protected
by SIMONIZ
■yHOUSANDS of wise motor-
ists will tell you to
Simoniz your new car so as
to keep the colors from fading
and make the finish last
longer.
Simoniz, easily applied with a
cloth, provides a beautiful sur-
face of protection that lasts for
many months. Simoniz stands
the wear and tear the finish
usually gets, and keeps it bright
and new.
If your car is dulled and
worn looking, Simoniz
Kleener will quickly and
easily restore the appa-
rently lost lustre and
renew all colors.
INSIST ON SIMONIZ
—and always drive a good-looking car.
Sold by all Good Motor Houses, Service Stations and
Hardware Stores at 2/9 Small Cans; 5/6 Large Cans.
In case you cannot obtain locally, see note below.
M
A
D
E
I
N
A
U
S
T
R
A
L
I
A
sdf
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
SIMONIZ
PRODUCT—
SIMONIZ
PENETRATING
GRAPHITE
OIL
“LOOSENS THE TIGHTEST NUT.”
Simoniz Penetrating Graphite Oil
instantly
DISSOLVES RUST,
LUBRICATES CAR SPRINGS,
STOPS CHASSIS AND BODY
SQUEAKS,
FREES GUMMED MOTOR VALVES,
LOOSENS ALL TIGHT NUTS
AND BOLTS.
Sold in handy Boz. can with long spout. Price 2/6.
IF YOU CANNOT OBTAIN SIMONIZ PRODUCTS
FROM YOUR USUAL DEALER, SEND POSTAL
NOTE TO
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS,
MOTORITE EQUIPMENTS PTY., LTD.,
188-96 Peel Street, North Melbourne.
FREE SAMPLES
OF SIMONIZ AND
KLEENER ON REQUEST.
SIM
- L-
DUG
AV,
Apply with a cloth
per acre. In the first instance a man will
have a little profit for himself. In the
second instance an actual loss will be
shown. At all events it is very evident to
those who have made a study of the situa-
tion that the present cost of wheat produc-
tion must come down, or the price must go
up, if the wheat industry is going to survive.
These are hard, cold facts that cannot be
sidestepped.
It is needless for me to say that this indus-
try is of the utmost importance to Australia,
and it demands immediate and serious con-
sideration, and everything that it is possible
to do must be done to assist the struggling
wheat-farmer to regain his feet, and to re-
lieve him of every possible burden and dis-
ability under which he is now operat-
ing. This is a problem of such import-
ance that it requires the attention and
supervision of the best brains of this coun-
ti’y, and it is obvious that the men that are
capable of tackling these jobs should be
selected from among the successful wheat-
growers of each State. They are the men
that know the job—they have proven it on
their own farms. They know all about soil
culture—when a man should plow, cultivate
and sow, and how he should do it.
This matter is of such importance that
immediate action should be taken to get the
industry on a better basis. I suggest that
an organisation of experienced men should be
effected as early as possible in each State
to assist in bringing down production costs
in the wheat-growing industry.
Minister, Mr. Scullin, on be-
half of the Federal Government, and the
Premier of the State of Victoria, Mr. Hogan,
on behalf of the State Government, have
foreseen the situation and the necessity for
growing more wheat, and they have given
the lead. The appeal they have made is
indeed commendable, and should be sup-
ported not only by the implement manufac-
turers and importers but by every class of
businessman in Australia. If they are given
the support by the businessmen that "their
appeal deserves the industry can be very
greatly assisted, and in due course the anti-
cipations of the Prime Minister and the
Premier of this State will be realised, but
it is necessary to take hold of the matter
vigorously and do something worth while to
assist the farmers. However, before a fair
measure of success can be attained by the
wheatgrower the cost of his farm equipment
must be reduced, and his production per acre
must be increased.
We are perfectly willing to do our share
in assisting to defray the expense of doing
something that will he really helpful to the
farmer, as our interests are so bound up
with the farmer that our business must stand
or fall in accordance with his success or
failure.
The Prime Minister cannot be expected to
work out this difficult problem on his own,
and he must have the sympathetic support
of the whole business community if the sug-
gestion that he has made in reference to
what must be regarded as one of Australia’s
most important industries is finally to be
successful. The position of the wheat-farmer
is undoubtedly serious, and unless there is
something done to substantially help him
in his production costs the wheat-growing
industry is bound to decline instead of
increase.
There is one thing that I wish to mention
that undoubtedly does untold harm to Aus-
tralia, and in my opinion deserves the strong-
est condemnation by the Australian press
and people. I refer to the Australian busi-
ness men who have made their money in
this country who go abroad on periodical
trips to England, Canada and the U.S.A.,
and one of the pet hobbies of a certain per-
centage of these men is to decry the Aus-
tralian workman. Every day or two I find
a repetition of this sort of thing in the daily
press. Is it to be wondered at therefore
that Australia cannot negotiate further loans
or induce foreign capital to come to this coun-
try? Only last week one of the daily papers
contained a cable from London in which a
prominent business man now in England
told the same old story —putting all of the
blame for Australia’s troubles on the Aus-
tralian workman. Why they do this is not
understandable. Every country in the world
has its troubles, but we do not hear the
citizens of other countries retailing their
family troubles to the daily press of coun-
tries they happen to visit while on a trip
abroad. They tell of the good things in
their own country, and say nothing of the
things that arc proving troublesome.
It seems almost unbelievable that a man
who owes everything he has to Australia
instead of telling the people of the world
about the good things of his country, of
which there are so many, and encouraging
capital to come here and invest, on the con-
trary tells the world through the associated
press that capital that is already here, that
was made here, wrung from Australian soil
by Australian farmers, blended with the
sweat of the Australian workman, must
leave the country, as due to the inefficiency
or the unwillingness, etc., of the Australian
workman it i s impossible to manufacture
in this country except at extremely high
costs. This in my opinion is casting an un-
deserved stigma on Australia and the Aus-
tralian workman, and it has no doubt assisted
i "doing serious harm to this country, from
which it will take a long time to recover.
A whole lot has been said about spending
money to advertise Australia in other coun-
tries of the world. Money spent in this
manner will be valueless just so long as a
certain percentage of Australian business
men when they are abroad seem to feel it
their solemn duty to decry their own country.
As a final word, I want to say to this class
of man, \\ hen you are abroad, if you can-
not remember the many good things about
your country, and forget the things that are
troublesome, you had better say nothing at
all.”
All of this sort of thing simply adds fuel
to the fire, and assists in antagonising the
Australian workman. We are large employ-
ers of labor, and I can only speak of my
twelve years’ experience with the Australian
workman. During that period we have never
had the slightest trouble with any men in
our organisation. We have found our men
ready and willing at all times to do a good
honest day’s work, never shirking their duty.
True, there is an occasional slacker, but in
my experience the percentage of these men
is no . larger than in any other country.
vV hat influence the unions, arbitration courts,
etc., may have on the collective body I am
not prepared to say, but of our employees
I can only speak in the highest terms.
I have had a long experience in handling
men, and from my experience I am confi-
dent that with the employer who takes what
might be called just a little human interest
1] ) ™ welfare of employees many of the
difficulties that have been experienced with
tlie Australian workman will disappear. It
seems to me that there must be faults on
both sides, as it generally takes two to make
a quarrel.
There arc hundreds of Australian firms,
like ourselves, that have been employing labor
for years, and have had no labor troubles
whatever, and why it is that there are others
who are having almost continual trouble
with their employees is hard to understand.
I hear it frequently stated that the wage
of the working man must come down, but
the cost of living must come down corres-
pondingly. I cannot see how the working
man of to-day is going to accept lower Wages
unless his living costs are reduced. The
cost of living is at such a high point to-day
<)n average wage paid it is very
difficult for the working man to make ends
meet. If the cost of living can be reduced
by 50 p.e. I am sure that the average work-
man in Australia will be willing to have
his wage correspondingly reduced, but wages
and living, costs are so interwoven that if a
reduction is made in the wage then the living
cost must come down correspondingly. How
living costs can be reduced, I think, is
quite obvious, and I am not going to discuss
it. If the Australian workmen and • the
employers would scrap some of the legal
enactments with which they are now
shackled, and would sit down together in
conference and talk the whole matter over
m a commonsense, business-like manner, I
a ? 1 < i on hclent that within a short time many
of the contentious problems that are now
so troublesome would soon disappear. The
working man, after all, is human, and if
he is treated on that basis, my experience
has been that he will give the same kind
of treatment in return. A little kindly
treatment and a sincere desire to get his
viewpoint will be much more helpful than
throwing bricks.
As I am a British subject charged with
the responsibility of a large investment in
an Australian iCompany, I feel quite at liberty
to discuss the three important subjects above
mentioned— the wheat-growing industry, the
Australian workman and the employers—as
the interests of all three are sq interwoven
that they must unite in common cause, and
forget classes and sections, in order that
tin' best interests of the whole community
may be served, and to the end that Australia
may pull out of its present difficulties as
speedily as possible. It is surprising what
can be done by united effort of the people
as a whole. Everyone must realise that
tunes havji radically changed in Australia,
and that it is the duty of every citizen to
buckle down and work just a little bit
harder and spend less, and if this is earnestly
done it is surprising how quickly this coun-
try will emerge from its difficulties.
I have not the least doubt of the sincerity
and honesty of purpose of the Prime Minister,
Mr. bcullm, and his colleagues in the recent
action that they have taken in increasing
duties on many lines to a prohibitive point,
and prohibiting the importation of a number
of other lines. Their plan of action is so
tar as I can learn without precedent, and
tneretore must be regarded as an experiment,
and time only will tell how successful the
plan will finally prove. When it has been
m effect for, say, a period of six months it
will be fairly easy to tell what the final
result will be. As the Act is purely experi-
mental, those responsible for its enactment
have no doubt made some mistakes. They
would be more than human if they did not
do so. There are many elements in large
business concerns with which they could
Possibly be familiar that are important
to Australia until the facts are brought to
their attention. I have every confidence that
these men have the best interests of their
country at heart and that if they are
approached in the right spirit they as reason-
able men will be quite willing to correct any
mistakes that they have made that might
prove detrimental to the best interests of
Australia.
I inally let me say that our business is
proceeding as usual without a hitch, as we
have every confidence that we will be given
a square deal by the Government, and that
is all we ask. We have not the least doubt
that the rights granted us under our charter
will be fully protected.
Our greatest concern to-day is the effect
ot the continued dry weather, not only upon
our business, but upon business of every
kind throughout the Commonwealth, and if
nature is only kind enough to favor us with
a good general rain, a fall of, say, two or
three inches, throughout the Commonwealth,
thereby providing abundant feed for the sheep
and cattle, and affording the wheat-growing
farmers an opportunity to complete their
plowing, and put in their crops, it will do
more to restore confidence and stimulate
business generally, not only in Australia, but
in every country of the world with which we
do business, than all the artificial helps that
possibly can be created by man. Let us
hope therefore that ample rains will come
along m the very near future and that we will
be favored with abundant crops. If those two
important things are realised, Australia will
si^rt* pier and ieai, " ier i,ositi ™
Business, Robbery, etc.
B. Gar : Quite recently a Darling Downs
(>J.) grazier bought 36,000 sheep at ss. 6d.
Pf 1 ' lead - He might have obtained 100,000
at the same figure had not rain fallen, caus-
ing the balance to be withdrawn from sale.
* * *
■ f\ U u ol *’ Hobot”: The Federal Government
might have included gilt watches in the list
ot prohibited imports. They are landed at
slightly over 3s. each and are sold at any-
rpiingx>uPi a P° uilcl all over Australia.
. le . Boskopf movement in these watches
identical with that in nickel huuteri,
obtainable overywhere for a half-crown.
* * * :[:
” : rrF etl ‘ o 1 continues its triumphant
pio„iess. The latest convert is Clapp whr
has been experimenting with petrol-electric
trains between Geelong and Melbourne for
some time past, and is determined that
country lines shall soon see the new form of
trains consist of carriage and
Newport d the vchlclcs are being built at
* * * *
Reference was made by “Jimmy Dux” in
this column last week to a Sydney co. to
which he had paid a premium on a sickness
and accident policy, only to learn later tha*t
the concern had gone into compulsory liquida-
n - The co. wa*s incorrectly styled the
Building Society.” Its real title is
the Federal Building Assurance Co., Ltd.”
The context and the nature of the business
done make its identity obvious, but the
correction is published because there is a
reputable Federal Building Society in Mel-
of i c ? ur . s ®>. lias ho connection
with the Federal Building Assurance Co.,
ktd., of Sydney.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: The “central” market of this
city is celebrating its jubilee. It has not
had an easy half-century. Although in the
mathematical centre of the far-flung town, it
is a long half-mile from the riverside, where
eaily settlers camped and trade obstinately
entrenched itself. Also, long ago, the fruit-
growers and market-gardeners from the hills
refused to come so far, and established an
Last-end market. Latterly, however, a
Central Traders’ Association of the shops in
and near ’Victoria-square has been battling
that district the recognition that
Light admittedly meant for it when he
planned the city.
* * * *
Oura Oura : It was rush-time at one of
oiir cash grocery stores, when a woman
pushed her way to the front with a large
In . C1 ’ .i IT \ J- 161 , ■ hand. “I Want you to go
through this list with me,” she said, and one
or the hands was so impressed bv the
demeanor of the customer and the size of
the order that he ga*ve her a good 10 minutes
even consulting the head as to the lowest
prices he could quote. When the prices had
been fixed she was asked if she would take
the goods or shall we deliver them ?” “I
don t want to buy anything, thank you,” she
said. I just wanted to make sure my own
grocer wasn’t overcharging me.”
* * * *
“N’lmporte”: The Queensland Society of
Sugar-cane Technologists was formed a
j eai or two ago, without much encourage-
ment from the sugar manufacturers, who
should have been the first to support it.
rt .wasnt long in finding its feet, and
at its first annual conference in Cairns last
week, almost every big mill in the State
was represented. Within the organisation,
chemists, agriculturists, engineers and all the
other technical experts aim at co-operation
in improved methods for the benefit of the
industry. They claim that it is capable of
expansion, said that it should be possible to
grow more sugar-cane, better cane and
cheaper cane, and to compete profitably on
the overseas market. It’s a tall order, but
it technical knowledge can do it, there is
no doubt the right stamp of men are at,
work.
Sfc £
Sol M.”: A poor species of worm is the
correspondent who writes to the “S. M.
Herald stating that he is an intensely patri-
otic Australian at heart, but he recently
bought some Australian-made goods, to wit
a dickey a shirt button, a bootlace and a
pair ot dungarees, and the quality was so
i often compared with anything imported that
lie is off our own products for ever. In
future he will breathe nothing but imported
a.ir bottled in Shoreditch, and he urges others
to do likewise, though the duty on bottled
air is an iniquity. And I don’t think much
of the publication which prints him either
unless it has personally inspected the exlrbits
and interviewed the sellers to make sure about
then-ongm. I am composing a letter for the
b. M. Herald which will explain how I
bought a penny morning paper in Sydney, and
vi £ uch a disappointment compared
with a* halfpenny journal which I could get
posted from Paris, that I have sworn off
Australian , newsrags for ever, and trust my
example will be universally followed. When
you see that epistle in print you will know
that it is genuine, anyhow.
* * * *
“Erua” : If those people who in bygone days
kept boxes of musk on the window-sill can now
produce a single genuine plant they stand a
chance of collecting the “Daily Mail’s” £lOOO
prize. Maoriland is entering heartily into
the effort to rediscover the real "thing,
but although several nurseries, in response
to an appeal from the local Institute of
Horticulture, are receiving and cultivating
likely species, the prize-winning variety has
not yet reappeared.
* * * *
“Wilhelm”: Last year our footwear
manufacturers imported over £700,000 worth
of goatskins, mostly from India. Yet the
more remote settlements of Australia used
to teem with goats, go much so that Charters
Towers and Townsville once collected and
shipped thousands of them to Magnetic
Island (N.Q.), much as Constantinople once
rid itself of pariah dogs. Yet William and
his wife will thrive on poor country that will
not afford sheep a living, and it is even now
a common practice to use them for clearing
brushy country for sheep. Why not cherish
the family for its own sake, and grow our
goatskins at ss. a time instead of importing |
them?


Ran kill!!. Public Companies, etc<
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares ~ .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
and Ireland, and other places.
Great Hi irain
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at interest for
fixed periods
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Fire on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United" is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. 11. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3C Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
Experimenting /
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary experiments?
Cut waste and
advertise with a
“Result Bringer.”
“The
Telegraph ”
({Brisbane)
Has proved itself over
58 years a good “Result
Bringer” for all adver-
tisers.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co., Ltd,
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Representative:
N. L. ROBERTS,
Country Press Co-op. Co. of Aust., Ltd.,
Barrack Street, Sydney.
‘THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everythin; 7 a woman needs to know.
Shipping, etc.
Winter Here is
Summer There!
Holiday in HAWAII
South Sea Isle of Sunshine and Surf
Sail by the Niagara or Aorangi
May 29 June 26 July 24
£75 First Saloon, £55 Second (Return)
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN
EXCURSIONS TO HAWAII
sd
UNION STEAM SHIP ( 0.. Agents, 247 George Street, Sydney.
BURNS PHILP TOURS
A Visit to JAVA
THE GARDEN OF THE EAST.
Seven Weeks' Wonderful Tour, including
about two weeks’ escorted motor trip
through Java.
Leaving Sydney by the magnificent liner
T.S.S. MARELLA,
May 7, 1930 July 7, 1930
Swimming Bath, Gymnasium, Deck Cabins, etc.
First-class inclusive fare from Sydney, £l2B
TRAVEL —in Picture, Verse and Story.
. Read the “B.P. Magazine,” 1/- per copy.
K All Newsagents and Booksellers.
!1
rs>a
X
m
a}'
m
s?
2'^
A
; v
BURNS PHILP £C 9 LIP
7 BRIDGE: ST SYDNEY 9 AUSTRALIA
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
fsd
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
388 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
FOR 84 YEARS QUEENSLAND’S LEADING DAILY NEWSPAPER
The
BRISBANE
COURIER
The largest and most widely spread
Home-delivered morning newspaper in
Brisbane and Queensland. For 84
years the “Courier” has been the most
outstanding advertising medium of
Queensland, and still enjoys the
supreme confidence of all local and
national advertisers.
220,571 inches
The “Courier” during 1929 exceeded
its morning contemporary’s total adver-
tising spacp by 220,571 inches.
Published by
THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
COURIER BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
N.S.W. Rep.: Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Shipping, etc.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
JThemistocles 11,500 tons, May 16
*Ascanius . . 10,000 „ June 18
tEuripides . 15,000 „ Aug. 5
*Nestor .. . 15,000 „ Sept. 15
* First class only.
IFirst and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt § Sanderson, Ltd.
Joint
Agents
SPLENDID CHEAP SERVICE
Via Suez Canal.
FAST OIL BURNERS
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued from Sept, to Feb., £32-
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
SPACIOUS DECKS—DECK CABINS—EXCELLENT
MENU—CINEMA—DANCE MUSIC REPRODUCED
WITH ELECTRIC AMPLIFIERS—
CANVAS SWIMMING BATH
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel.: 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
Tel.: 87512. 247 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart ParkcrL'ji
Magnfflosnt
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice vena.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as ner daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUqDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street. Melbourne; arin*e muse. Sydney.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —-
*
yy
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&CIm.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Briij* Str«». Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of •
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CUUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISUAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAE ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CEUB
N.Z. GOEF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POEO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of th« World’* I.cading
Advertising Ageit.'.les.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.


MAGNAVOX
DYNAMIC
“Your Radio pleasure depends
on the Speaker."
Moderately Priced
Unequalled in Tone
Demonstration will Convince You.
Obtainable All Radio Dealers
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL STATES.
HOME for cure of ALCOHOLISM and DRUGS
(BOTH SEXES)
Established 30 years. Highly recommended. Under medical supervision. Fully qualified matron
and staff. Effective and safe.
THE CENTRAL MISSION INSTITUTION,
Moreland Hall, Jessie Street, Moreland, Melbourne.
Telephone: Brunswick 744.
r-%, si i
n r<iK
! )
i B wJeji
|^<Ui*jp|lii
LO
Mi
5*
BBS?
pi
£*\ c K<^'
i
a
- »;> ! x
V)
'X/
r*i' r
b/y
*3§2
DEVONSHIRE HOUSE, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.
and at Manchester , Leeds , and Bristol
is by Car,
Bought on Henlys’
“ Buy-Back ” Plan
Henlys specialise in selling cars to visitors
from overseas, and fixing a definite price at
which they will buy back their cars at a later
date. This is easily the most convenient way
to see England: it is cheaper and more
pleasant than hiring; it is infinitely pre-
ferable to using the train. Henlys have the
largest stock of cars in England for you to
choose from, and they particularly recom-
mend such makes as Austin, Morris, etc.,
which having a good second market, can be
purchased on the cc Buy-Back ” Plan at a
very low rate of depreciation indeed.
HENLyi
England’s Leading
Motor Agents
Illustrated Brochure obtainable
from The Bulletin Office, 21)
George Street, Sydney.
Poverty
Point
“Cine Ma”: Britishism can go too far.
The English film industry has apparently
decided to ban the word “talkie” and sub-
stitute “talk.” The result is not happy.
An “all-talk screen drama” sounds forbidding,
though’ the description may be apt enough.
“John Quill” : “Clarence Cafeteria’s” lady
who fell under the spell of Clive Brook after
seeing him in “Madame X” (B. 2/4/’3O)
must have been under another spell before
seeing the picture. Clive Brook did not
appear in it.
“Aisle Seat”: In a N.S.W. country town
recently I was attracted by the sign “Come
in and Hear Real Australian Talkies.” I
—and saw that fine showman, Jack Mac-
Donald, and his gifted cockatoos.
“Adam Ant” : “Love Lies,” at Melbourne
King’s, is quite a family affair. Richard
White (correct name) is manager and in-
structor of dancing; Les White, the next
brother, plays the butler of the show;
Dorothy White, the only girl of the family,
plays Dinkie Maine; Eric Edgley, andfher
White brother, is associate manager; the
youngest brother is Clem, known as Clem
Dawe: he is principal comedian, and his
comeding is good. The orchestra is con-
ducted by Gregory Ivanoff, who is married
to Dorothy, and is consequently a White
brother-in-law. Mrs. White, the mother of
the family, keeps an eye on the whole show.
She was formerly a notable dancer. The
five W T hites were members of the Eight
Lancashire Lads dancing team for several
years, and no one except themselves knew
that the fifth boy was really a girl, Dorothy.
“C.M.”: For the Commonwealth film
censors to select the present moment for
an attack on British pictures was most
unfortunate. John Bull’s efforts in the past
have deserved the board’s strictures. They
were generally feeble attempts to go after
the clientele created by Hollywood with the
same sort of goods. Nevertheless, even dur-
ing this imitative period a few pictures were
produced which stood head and shoulders
over their Transatlantic rivals. “Dawn,”
the film in which Sybil Thorndike took
the part of Nurse Cavell, was the finest war
picture which has reached Australia. The
new talkies which are just arriving show a
tendency to get back to normal British
standards. English playwrights at the
moment are principal favorites on the legi-
timate stage in America*, and only the pro-
ducers know how much the better side of
the American film industry is due to Brit-
ishers. When the English are true to them-
selves, as one dead Englishman said, the
result is apt to be excellent.
“E. 8.”: “C.B. (B. IG/4/'3O) distorts
the facts. For the most part the seceders
from Melbourne Repertory Society were
persons who had never been asked to play
since the break with the Firm. When
McMahon launched the joint enterprise with
the Taits in 1927, the number of Repertory
members was more than three times that
given by “C. 8.,” and instead of 900 members
at three guineas when he left there were
under 600. The number of members in 1928
was 750. One of the reasons for the break
with McMahon was his public announcement
that no good plays are ever satisfactorily
done by amateur casts. Another was that
so much of the Firm’s money had been
lost that it was only prepared to offer a
much less favorable proposal for 1928. Since
then, Melbourne Repertory, in spite of the
playing of many funeral marches over it,
has shown more vigor than at any previous
time.
“L.H.P.”: Lately dead James Hughes
debuted at Sydney Royal as Albertoni, the
Ringmaster, in the attractive musical
qomedy “A Circus Girl,” on May 9, 1903. He
made a great hit with “The Whip Song” in*
the second act. He next scored as Billy
Breeze in “The Belle of New York,” whose
■song, “We Will Stand or Fall Together,” is
sometimes cut out now. Other rQles were
Fo Hop, the Chinese student in “San Toy,”
and the brigand Santa Cruz in “The Run-
away Girl.” His best hit in comic opera was
the soldierly Lefebvre in “The Duchess of
Dantzic.” Tn drama he supported Muriel
Starr and others. Hughes crossed the Pacific
twice to support stars in New York, notably
George Arliss and John Barrymore. He was
Sergeant Malone in the long run here of
“Rose Marie.”
“Caul Boy”; The renaissance in theatre-
going which coincided with Wilkie’s sojourn
in Melbourne ended when he left. At least
two shows which had done well elsewhere
quickly lost enough between them to build an
ironclad. Yet the talkie entrepreneurs are not
having it their own way. One of the leading
combines is shortly closing 15 of its suburban
theatres, in the hope that by so doing it will
drive customers into the city. Hollywood’s
. choice of themes which shock the Australian
censors is one drawback to the success of
this manoeuvre. Most of the pictures shown
in the time-payment-pianola belt are eligible
for children. This is not so in the city. In
one fecent week in ten of the leading
metropolitan amusement factories, seven of
the programmes were out of bounds for the
juveniles.
“O. W. Waireki” : Talkies don’t seem to
have greatly affected the legitimate stage in
the Big Smoke, either. When the last Lon-
don mail left 45 legitimate shows, including
four with all vaudeville bills, were running,
and Kreisler and other famous artists were
listed for concerts.
“Craiser”: Nigel Brock, who is managing
the latest visit of the Westminster Glee
Singers, has been an impresario for 25 years.
He is a South Australian, and his decision
to enter the theatrical industry shocked con-
temporary opinion in that State. He played
small parts in Wilson Barrett’s second com-
pany. A brother was killed on Gallipoli and
another in France.
“Cine Ma”: To circumvent the persons
who profit by the Sunday regulation against
admission charges to get a first-class orches-
tral concert and a comfortable seat in a
theatre for threepence, the Vic. Professionals
have introduced a new system. Those who
put a shilling or more in the plate will be
accommodated with a seat in the best part of
the theatre. ,It is almost certain that the
anti-brighter-Sabbath section will challenge
the legality of the arrangement.
The Inky Way
Latest Australian writer to go off looking
for color and experience is Myra Morris,
author of scores of vivid Bulletin short
stories and sets of verse. She leaves by
the Jervis Bay and expects to be back by
the end of the year.
“C.J.8.W.”: At-Christchurch (M.L.) in
1879 fifteen clergymen met and approved tin
following resolution: “That this meeting con-
siders the time has arrived when serious steps
should be taken to bring persons connected
with- the newspaper profession in this city
to a sense of the duties they owe to their
fellow citizens in a moral and religious
sense; and that a society for the conversion
of journalists be formed in order that many
wayward .souls may be gathered into the
kingdom.” What happened to the society
is lost in the mists of time, but if that
generation of newsgetters was any worn
than those that succeeded it, the reformers
must have had a tough spin.
The Easter “Australia Beautiful” (“Art
in Australia”) carries a good work a bit
further. Color reproductions of paint-
ings by Will Ashton, Heysen, Herbert.
Gruffer and _ Sydney Ure Smith, and fine
black-and-whites and photogi’aphic studies,
engagingly present the beautiful and much
neglected side of Australia. Sculliu could
do worse than confiscate all copies and
export them.
The “S. M. Herald” will reach its cen-
tury on April 18 next year. For the first
few months it appeared only once a week;
in 1832 it came out as a bi-weekly (Mondays
and Thursdays) and kept at that for six
years; then it was a tri-weekly for a couple
of years, and the first daily issue was made
on October 1, 1840. But it didn’t drop the
“Morning” into its title for a couple of
years after that—that was 12 months or so
after Charles Kemp (reporter) and John
Fairfax (printer) had pooled their few
pounds and bought the paper. It has been
in the hands of the Fairfaxes alone since
3853.
A ridiculous feature of the Felton
Bequest’s appointment of critic Randal:
Davies as buyer is that lie will consult
Sir Charles Holmes, former director of the
National Gallery in London. Holmes will
get 10 guineas a consultation and one guinea
p.c. of the purchase price of any picture
recommended by him. He is himself;a painter
of water-colors, the indifferent character of
which suggests that his eye is no better
qualified to detect the superlative in paint-
ing than a country roads board engineer is
to point out flaws in the Einstein theory.
“F.S.”: Some months ago I pointed out
in The Bulletin that the policy of leaving
the job in the hands of one local mediocre
sculptor would result in the Vic. Shrine of
Remembrance becoming something artistically
to be forgotten. The architects are now
waking up to the position, and one recently-
described some of the designs as “Cupids,
figures dressed in classical nightgowns, and
wreaths and lions which belong to a period
2000 years ago.”
Frank Daly, who lias turned in his last
copy in Brisbane at 83, was the,third old-
time Queensland journalist of high repute
to pass out within a few weeks. An Irish-
man, he graduated in law from Trim Coll.
Dub., and went to M.L. in 1870 to practise
as a solicitor, but decided that the six-and-
eight existence was not for him. Brisbane
first saw him in 1888, when he was imported
to join the staff of the “Boomerang,” a red-
covered weekly with Bulletin aspirations.
Then he tackled the Civil Service, and later
found his way to the “Courier” and “Queens-
lander.” lie was better known by his pen-
name of “Fidelia” than by his own lawful
label.
SMALLTOWN TALKIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We sit ’mid clans of Smith and Perkins.
Fardels of ice-cream, sealed in firkins
(Youth’s magic cried as merchandise),
Pass visibly before our eyes.
Cates, too, there are, beyond all question
Full fourscore sorts of indigestion,
And, above rubies to be prized,
Shelled peanuts—all deodorised.
An interregnum superseding
One hears well-nourished flappers feeding
While, near and dear, the nectar Rum
Distils its rich effluvium.
Now, ’twixt the shingled Sues and Sadies,
The lingerie and legs of ladies,
Cough-cures and cocoa ads. are seen
Kaleidoscopic on the screen.
A warty woman with a goitre
Confides, as kindred crqnies loiter,
“I'll see the pieters now in peace
Me old man’s took be the perlice.”
Anon, slieiked round, goes Edna-Gertie,
A boyish girl, type nineteen-thirty,
Sex-conscious from her piquant face
Down to her slender instep’s grace.
Out go the lights! we sigh and settle.
’Tis black as any pot or kettle.
My arm about your slimness loops,
Your shingle on my shoulder droops,
While out of space comes squealing “May be,”
“Gee,” “Attaboy” ad “Okay Baby”
And suqh-like mud as moderns fling
Upon the English of the King.
In front of us, unheard our kisses,
The grocer and the baker’s missus
Study the champs and cull technique
From winsome Greta and her sheik.
But I, who well deserve your strictures
For seeking copy from these pictures,
Frankly this hideous truth aver:
/ don’t know what the darned things were.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


The Bank of Adelaide
SIXTY-FOURTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
DIRECTORS TO THE SHAREHOLDERS
The Directors have pleasure in submitting herewith for the infor-
mation of Shareholders the Balance Sheet of the Bank as on the 31st
March, 1930, and statements of Profit and Loss and the Reserve Fund
on the same date.
The Balance of Profit and Loss for the year ended
31 st March, 1930 (including the balance
brought forward from the previous year,
£38,874/13/-) amounts to .£176,982 2 0
Out of which an interim Dividend at the rate of 1 0
per cent, per annum was paid in November last 62,500 0 0
Leaving available . . £1 14,482 2 0
Out of which the Directors have
resolved to transfer to Reserve
Fund (making it £ 1,000,000) ..£ 1 5,000 0 0
and have declared a dividend for
the half-year ended 31 st March,
1930, at the rate of 8 per cent,
per annum, payable after the
General Meeting on 7th May,
1930 50,000 0 0
65,000 0 0
Leaving a balance to carry forward of . . ..' £49,482 2 0
In explanation of the reduction of the Dividend to 8 per cent, per
annum, the Directors wish to state that, in view of the present financial
outlook in Australia, they have thought it prudent to conserve and
strengthen the Bank’s resources rather than to distribute a dividend at
the usual rate.
The Ordinary General Meeting will be held at the Registered Office
of the Company, 81 King William Street, Adelaide, on Wednesday, 7th
May, 1930, at 12 o’clock noon, at which the Shareholders will be called
upon to elect one Director in place of Mr. Howard Watson Lloyd, who
retires in accordance with the Articles of Association but is eligible for
re-election, and offers himself accordingly.
The Shareholders will be asked to elect two Auditors for the
ensuing year, and fix their remuneration.
HOWARD W. LLOYD, Chairman of Directors.
W. J. MASSON, General Manager.
O. L. ISAACHSEN, Secretary.
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE,
BALANCE SHEET, 31st March, 1930.
LIABILITIES.
Capital paid up £1,250,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. 985,000 0 0
Profit and Loss 114,482 2 0
£2,349,482 2 0
Notes in Circulation .. .. 6,670 0 0
Bills in Circulation and other
Liabilities .. •• •• 125,675 7 4
Balances due to other Banks .. 345,098 t 11
Deposits . . • • • • • • 6,105,440 1 7
Interest accrued on Fixed Deposits
and Rebates on Bills Discounted 64,230 15 10
£8,996,596 11 8
Contingent Liabilities, consisting
of Letters of Credit, etc. .. £334,731 4 1
Specie, Bullion
and Cash
Australian Notes
and Cash with
Com monwealth
Bank of Aus-
tralia ..
(I o vernment
Securities ...
Municipal Deben-
tures
Money at Short
Call, London . .
Balances due
from other
Banks
Notes of other
Banks
Bills Receivable
in London and
Remittances in
transitu
ASSETS.
£79,711 16 6
804,180 8 9
647,233 13 5
2,700 0 0
129,000 0 0
126,020 17 8
676 10 0
632,060 19 7
Bank Premises and Furniture
Bills Receivable in Australia, Bills
Discounted and all other Advances
£2,417,584 5 11
348,025 0 4
6,230,987 ' 5 5
£8,996,596 11 8
Liabilities of Customers on
Letters of Credit, etc., as per
Contra £334,731 4 1
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT from 25th March, 1929,
to 31st March, 1930.
To Reserve Fund as
below . . . . £15,000 0
Dividend in May,
1929 .. ' . . 62,500 0
Dividendl in
November, 1929.. 62,500 0.
Balance, 31st March, 1930 . .
0
0
0
£140,000 0 0
.. 114,482 2 0
£254,482 2 0
By Balance 25th March, 1929 ..£116,374 13 0
Net Profit, including Recoveries, and
after making provision for Bad
and Doubtful Debts, Interest
accrued on Fixed Deposits, and
Rebate on Bills Discounted, and
deducting Expenses at Head
Office and 64 Branches, includ-
ing Salaries, Rents, Taxes, etc... 138,107 9 0
£254,482 2 0
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance at this date ..
. . £985,000 0 0
£985,000 0 0
By Balance 25th March, 1929
Transfer from Profit and Loss,
May, 1929 ..
£970,000 0 0
,
15,000 0 0
£985,000 0 0
W. J. MASSON, General Manager.
O. h. ISAACHSEN, Secretary and Accountant.
HOWARD W. LLOYD, Chairman of Directors.
We have compared the above Balance Sheet with the Books and Accounts of The Bank of Adelaide
for the year ending 31st March, 1930, and certify that it is a correct abstract of the same. ■ We have
counted the cash and examined the Bills and Government and', Municipal Securities on hand at the
Head Office. The Assets and Liabilities at • the Branches other than London have been taken on the
Certificates of the Managers and Accountants of the respective branches, and those, of the Loudon Branch,
as fabled by the London Manager.
Adelaide, 15th April, 1930.
G. R. ANNELLS l
K. W. TjfEJIvL f
Auditors.
Chartered Account am 3 (Aust.).
Garden Work Lightened
and Speeded up.
If you have a garden you should
have a barrow. It will save you
a surprising amount of work in
shifting garden refuse, manure,
soil, sand, etc.
m
ic
V T i\
If you really
want to
know ho w
handy a
barrow is,
ask the man
who owns
one,
We have a limited number of a new type of all-metal Barrows. They
have strong rigid bodies of useful capacity, well braced frames,
and are fitted with running wheels. The wheel-guard is extended to
form a handy tipping nose. The great feature of these Barrows
is their lightness and their balance—the weight rests on the
wheels, NOT ON YOUR HANDS. Until our present limited stock
is exhausted we are selling at the remarkable price of 29/6 each.
Owing to the high quality and tempting price we anticipate a
rapid clearance.
ORDER YOURS TO-DAY.
ersons
Proprietary limited
582-592 Collins Street, Melbourne.
51-65 Bathurst Street }
447 George Street \
Sydney.
116-130 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
£
7 n
m
4^
*-L:+oBmi-W- >•'-■/ -
S'-
L^s--
&s
3S
?^33Efi@ > 55s
On //?e Beach
i it Waikiki.
© e
A golden stretch of glistening sand and nodding coco-palms,
flanked by splendid hotels—-inviting crystal water that is
always warm, and racing breakers that propel outrigger canoes
and surf-boards for many hundred yards. Health-giving sun-
bathing every day in the year.
You should spend your next holiday in Hawaii, for, apart
from sunny beaches, there is the dream city of Honolulu
Kilauea Volcano—glorious inter-island cruises and a hundred
other rare delights awaiting you.
Luscious pineapple, papaia (pawpaw), mangoes, bananas,
and other tropical fruits always available. Native pageants,
water carnivals to see. Plenty of golf courses and tenn s
courts, hundreds of miles of fine motor roads. Something new
to do every day.
Special return excursion fares now available. Accommodation
from 15/- per day, inclusive of meals. Send us your address
and we will forward to you descriptive booklets of the
Hawaiian Islands, attractively illustrated in color.
Hawaii Tourist Bureau
Dept. 1 1
Box 1627 88., G.P.O.
SYDNEY
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.


fsd
f
*r*ou *««MY
~u\\ * ts A
;tlA
<*°*r - s ev ,
A yov*' 1 v, tjte sS
\a*S e 2\ 1»'«> V
:Y^ a
a tYv ' s ? tt toW
Wtvg
ac
******
\tv» e
in*®
b*) 5 *
80*' “STa*®
t*ef3>
= „
«»«» ' n^°
»*“S?nef
*• s&* f ' tvP '
Win fully inflate the average motor-
tyre in one minute.
A THE \
RENRUTN
QUADRUPLE
HAND PUMP
Price, 45/-
V
(.With Gauge,
S/- extra.)
If unable to obtain,
write to our Factory
Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Mel-
bourne, Australia.
You must try this
LIGHT BEER
RESCH’S
PILSENER
A Drink to Delight You.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
“Five to four Amounis, 11 to 8 Night-
march,” was the cry of McShortodds as the
field of four moved up to the barrier for the
All-aged Stakes at Randwick; and the man
behind the bag has been accused of giving
money away. As a matter of fact, there
was good backing for Greenline at sevens
and a little for Cimabue at fourteens, so the
generosity was imaginary. As in the Autumn
Stakes, Pike got a run on the rails for
Amounis, and it carried the old gelding to
victory, Nightmarch, who ran out a bit,
being beaten by a length and Greenline by
another three-quarters of a length; the time
was the same as in the Doncaster —lmin.
37sec. It looked as if Pike could have won
on either of them.
Phar Lap, reserved for the Cumberland
Stakes, had only Donald and Kidaides for
antagonists, yet his supporters drew 12s.
from the 10s. tote after 124 p.c. and frac-
tions of sixpences had been deducted for the
club and the Government. McShortodds
refused to bet straightout. Phar Lap led
all the way, and was nearly 100 yards ahead
at one stage. Donald, hard-ridden, got to
within a couple of lengths of him at the end
of the 14 furlongs (run in 2min. 58|sec.), but
the chestnut could have gone faster had
Elliott urged him. However, his appearance
on returning for the weighing-in did not
altogether satisfy some critics, a*nd more
than one expressed the opinion that his
exacting style of running his races was
beginning to tell on him.
McShortodds . was evidently of the same
opinion as these critics, for he accepted 2
Bert:"Dio you <2,0 to the
Races cast week ? ”
G»ERT ’. U 1 WAS THERE CsN
NIOHD/W ?
6)ErRT‘ "Do /NKV <qooO 2"
GGQT ;" Ves, \ Pool? old
MKM SIXPENCE
to 1 and 9 to 4 (in a field of three) about
Phar Lap in the A.J.C. Plate on the Satur-
day, Nightmarch being at 2 to 1. He paid
again for his poor judgment of the chestnut,
for Phar Lap wpn like the great three-
year-old he is. For a mile and a half Elliott
let him have his head, and with those
sweeping strides of his he w T as soon nearly
three-quarters of a furlong in the lead. Night-
march hung in behind Donald, Reed fondly
imagining that Phar Lap would come back
to him. He went after the leader at last
but made little headway until the Mel-
bourne boy took hold of the champion, who,
thus cheeked, came on to win by a dozen
lengths from Nightmarch, who was hard put
to it to beat off Donald. Never has a Mel-
bourne Cup winner been made to look so
cheap.
According to private watches, Phar Lap
traversed seven furlongs in lmin. 24sec., 10
in 2.44, 12 in 2.29-j and two miles in 3.20.
Il’e is officially credited with 3.494 for the
2:1 miles, which cuts a second off the Austral-
asian record. . He has doubtless improved
since the spring, but it is now abundantly
clear that if Lewis had let him run his own
race he would have won the Melbourne Cup
in the Newliaven way. Phar Lap’s next
race will be in the King’s Cup at Adelaide
on May 17. H’e has 9st. 51b., a big weight
for a three-year-old, but what is going to
beat him if he keeps his condition?
Melbourne horses had a turn on the third
day. when Myarin (16 to 1) got away with
the first division of the Coogee Handicap, and
Cimbrian (7 to 1), Garamelo and Sir Roy
filled the places in the City Handicap. Sir
Roy (7 to 1) scored for Godby in the
Dangar Handicap on Saturday—though he
wouldn’t have done so if the boy on Squlton
hadn’t adopted cut-throat tactics with that
good Queensland horse —and Namera (6 to
4) justified the confidence of the Melbourne
punters in the Second Steeplechase. But
Eric Connolly’s plunge on Dark Man in the
first division of the Rous Handicap failed,
the good-looking Adrian's March (8 to 1)
crediting the John Brown estate with its first
success.
Lorason, after his failure in the Doncaster,
ran a couple of thirds, but he had every
chance in each race, and isn’t the horse
this Page thought him. Apart from Phar
Lap, the three-year-olds are not much good.
The two-year-olds are decent. The best of
them may be Tom Pinch, who, carrying
Bst. 91b. and starting on the outside of a
field of 23, won a seven-furlong handicap in
the excellent time of lmin. 25sec. He went
out at 10 to 1 (and paid more- than that
on one of the totes), although he had suc-
ceeded on the Monday. Bawn-na-Glas, who
won the Final Handicap at tens—he is per-
haps the first Greenstead to run out a mile
and a quarter —also showed better tote
returns, although there were three divs.—
£3 7s. 6d. for ss. in the flat and £3 10s. 6d.
iu the Leger. During the meeting £202,964
passed through the machines as compared
with £208,729 a year ago. If the Government
insisted on straightout, place and “doubles”
totes being provided, while reducing its own
cut from 9 p.c. to 5 p.c., the volume of totali-
sator betting would be at least doubled, while
a lot of leather-lunged odds-crampers who get
in people’s way would be released for useful
work. The bagmen will remember the round
with pleasure—they were on top every day.
The club distributed £52,832 in stake-
money. Telford, lessee of Phar Lap, col-
lected the biggest cheque, £5286, and shared
training honors with Walker, whose string
includes Venetian Lady, Poitiers and Chemosh
(Champagne Stakes). Darby Munro (Vene-
tian Lady, Chemosh and Adrian’s March)
was the most successful jockey.
For the City Tatt.’s meeting at Rand-
wick :
Denman Stakes: Remora; next, Green-
sea.
Novice Handicap: Adrian ; next, Voleuse.
City Tatt.’s Cup; Inducement; next,
Spearman.
Club Welter; Adrian’s March; next,
Poitiers.
* * *• *
Six of the eight starters for the Khartoum
Hurdle at Caulfield last Saturday were in
such solid demand that none started at a
longer price than 7 to 1, and 4 to 1 was
offered on the field. Punters accorded
Flavedo a slight preference over Horoscope,
runner-up to Don Moon in the Doncaster
Handicap of 1927, who now belongs to F. E.
Shillabeer. Horoscope led for a short dis-
tance and then surrendered control to Conde,
whose rider appeared to be “going for the
doctor.” Conde knocked up half a mile
from home, leaving Cobranveil in command.
Cobranveil toppled over, and Tirade came
on to win at. liis ease from Horoscope (who
had been coaxed' into taking hold of the
bit again) and Tresolaus.
Tirade is the prad on whom “Darcy”
Eccles made an unsuccessful plunge at Wil-
liamstown a week before. At. the seaside
course he was vanquished by Carwoola,
whose owner, A. T. Ci'eswick, scored there
two days later with Flavedo. Quotes at
Caulfield were headed by Flavedo, but the
All Black chestnut gave a miserable display
and finished second last. Tirade started at
7 to 1. About the Neerim Steeplechase
winner, Epergne, a point longer odds could
be obtained; four candidates being preferred
to S. P. Casey's gelding. Junot King (first
choice at 4 to 1) was beaten when he fell.
George William (9 to 2) could not get nearer
than sixth. Ray Turner, who had piloted
Tirade to victory, looked like pulling off a
double. His mount, Ca*sar, set up a long
lead, but Epergne cut him down a short dis-
tance from the post. Epergne is a half-
brother to Bard of Avon, winner of the
A.J.C. Metropolitan of 1925. When in the
right humor he is hard to beat over fences.
Caesar is trained by H. W. Gabell, who
captured the last V.R.C. Grand National
Steeple with Sandhurst. Both Caesar and
Sandhurst are by Baverstock.
Cliilperie, a brother to Cyanate, went out
at cramped odds for the Katandra Two-year-
old at Caulfield, His backers considered
themselves lucky when the judge awarded
a dead-heat with Scintillation. Latter be-
longs to E. M. Pearce, and is by Australian
Sun, sire of Glare, who lias gone into
winter quarters at Caulfield after a debut
at Randwick which caused questions to be
asked by the stipendiary stewards.
“Mr. Constable,” of Sydney, and E. L.
Baillieu, Y.R.C. committee member, have
raced horses in conjunction for a number
of years. They carried off the Brighton
Handicap at Caulfield with Field Artillery,
a five-year-old gelding by Linacre —Black
Battery, trained by Frank Musgrave. It
was announced recently that, in consequence
of “Mr. Constable” being about to go abroad,
Longwood, trained by Jerome. Carey at Rand-
wick, would be sent up for sale; but the
partners will be ill-advised if they get rid
of Field Artillery, who has just come good.
Forcing his way to the front on Saturday,
the relative of Artilleryman battled on
gamely to stall off a late challenge from
Doradus. Nice odds (5 to 1) were avail-
able, Harry Gavin having been backed from
4 to 1 down to 5 to 2.
In the Easter Cup at Williamstown, a
dead-heat for second place was registered
by Glynylln and Wood chatter, who were half
a length behind Mondiaga. All three com-
peted at Camlfield in the Glenhuutly Handi-
cap, Mondiaga meeting his rivals on 41b.
worse terms. Without, adequate reason,
punters made a 9 to 4 shot of Glynylln
and allowed Woodchatter to go out at 5 to
1. The Lanius mare scored in brilliant
fashion from Pinnacle (25 to 1) and Prince
Viol (7 to 1). She belongs tp “A. Woolis-
croft,” the jam king, and is trained by Frank
Robinson, who won races years ago for the
same owner with Defence, a son of Carbine.
* * * *
For Mentone on Saturday:—
Brush Steeple: Caesar; next. Punchinello.
Mentone Handicap: Cyanate; next. Cap.
j| ; ij: H:
Some pretty good prices were paid for
yearlings at the Sydney Easter sales, but
there were many offerings on which the
breeder would show no profit. The Heroics
were a handsome lot; Scobie went to 120!)
guineas for a bay colt out of Nod, a Cool-
trim mare, and an Airify filly, a half-sister
to that good mare Calmest (over-raced as a
two-year-old), looked a bargain at the 150
guineas for which the elder Kelso got her.
Three Manfred colts were also striking;
Poison paid 850 for one with a Linacre mare
(Chatelaine) for dam, and J. E. Brien
snapped up another, with Carbine blood on
the dam’s side, for 700 guineas. The same
owner, who formerly owmed Rossendale and
sold him on his son’s death acquired a
brother to Panola (Rossendale—Pansy) for
2000 guineas, the top price of the sales. The
Magpie contingent looks like maintaining
the reputation of that great racehorse and
sire. A brother to Amounis ( Magpie—Loved
One) will race iu the colors of James
Murdoch, M.L.C.: he brought 1300 guineas.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Bi g s ‘ «
Jofanj- Peters ' at
and'^AfooSftte
®i e h ' e p ri ! .I 1 siVSth
an V slipping. Th“re wL not much harm
done ia the early rounds, but in. the sixth
]yj ac cauS ed the visitor some anxious
moments with we ig hty rights to the jaw.
q'| )C was fought at a great clixi,
eac jj scor ing solidly in turn. The English-
man won the tenth session well with a two-
]ianded barrage to head and body, and in the
next he got home two great rights to the
l a ", but the local boy came back with some
[ ?'/ Ba, . a< ' brand before the round closed,
b ighting hke a little champion m the last
lounds, McAlister gave 1 etc is a g *
bdtmg and looked like knomfing him out.
"lie visitor saw it through, but win a shade
i" C^ in 4l^ ttins a draW ‘ Wdghts Were even
‘ ' - D '
p. , ,
* ootbrawl
The opening of the N.S.W. Rugby League
season showed that South Sydney has lost
none of its greatness. South, well served by
the brothers Why, Treweeke and Wearing,
obliterated University by 31 to 30. Newtown,
which has acquired Root, of the Kangaroos,
from South, proved much too fast for St.
George, 17 to nil; and Eastern Suburbs,
which has Busche, Hardy (back to his best
form) and a young son of “Sandy’ Pearce,
the latest representative of a fine athletic
family, exhibited superior speed and corn-
bmation against Balmain. 26 to 12. Western
Suburbs, led by the astute veteran
accounted for North Sydney, 18 to t . It
was interesting football on the whole, and
the League will nc-ed to keep the games
interesting, for the Union is pressing A hard.
' , , J ' T n r u •
Woolwich Arsenal beat Huddersfield m
the final of tlie Association Cup at W einbley
by 2 goals to nil before 93,000 spectators,
This is the third time that the losers have
arrived at the final during the past decade;
in ’2O they ivent down to Aston Villa, and
in ’22 they bore off the bacon from Preston
North End. The Arsenal Club retains little,
if any, association with the essential institu-
tion whence it originally gets its name; it
is a wealthy North Loudon organisation
which has distanced most of its rivals in
the gentle art of buying professional players
from anywhere in the U.K. and giving top
prices for them. Hence, although Scotland,
Wales, Ireland, Yorkshire and Lancashire
are all said to have been represented in the
Cup-winners’ team, it' is doubtful is a single
all-wool Cockney could be found there. Asso-
ciation football in England becomes more
and more i a matter of buying efficient mer-
cenaries, and the club with the longest purse
profits accordingly.
$ US * Sji
“Trekel”: Last year Melbourne Associa-
tion teams, by heavy bidding, secured many
League champions, and this year, when a
flat rate of pa*yffient was enforced by the
League, it was thought that the exodus
would be greater. Most of the players who
were tempted to migrate are now back with
League teams. Where is the big money to
come from? The League has more thousands
yelling encouragement and cheer than the
Association has hundreds. Last year one
prominent player who went to the Assoc,
without a permit thudded badly. His
promised job was not forthcoming, and the
citizen who guaranteed his fiver a week left
the district. Now the muddied oaf must
stay in the Assoc, on their terms or give up
the game. Generally these stars get their
money. It’s the 12 or 14 lesser yet indis-.
pensable players who have to fight the
secretary every Saturday night for their 30
bob. '
(Continued on page 36.)


W. W. GREENER
GUNS
*
FT
f})of
St°s£
W. W. GREENER LTD., Birmingham
Wholesale Australian Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.,
405*07 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, C,l.
Winchester Rifle, Model 56.
22-Cal. Long Rifle only
Handles well
and
Shoots well.
,- - -
w
•a *"
*
The Rifle
for Small Game
Price, £5. Post free to all parts of
Australia.
The Gun House,
COWLES <& DUNN,
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Catalogue B.
By Special
sd
Appointment
LADIES’
MOCCASINS
For Boudoir wear, these
pi’etty and comfy mocca-
sins are ideal. Made of
softest leather (soles and
uppers cut in one piece),
beaded fronts, and
trimmed with fur collar.
Tones of Saxe, Mauve
and Salmon.
All sizes. Price,
1 O /£*
10/0
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
And at Toowoomba, Longreach and Townsville.
Footbrawl
“Tuart”: A victory over Wales at Paris
last week would have given France the
international Rugby premiership for the first
time; but the Gauls could not manage it. The
Welshmen defeated them by 11 to nil. Both
nations play “willing” football, as the Wara-
tahs can testify, and there was more fight
than play in the closing stages, especially
after the referee, an Englishman, had dis-
allowed what the furious Franks thought
was a try. The Cambrians got over once,
and kicked two goals and a dozen or more
Gauls. One of their forwards had to leave
the battlefield “with blood streaming from
his face,” and his mates shed large quan-
tities of skin and hair; but they escaped
being lynched by the yelling crowd and went
home happy. The English are premiers once
more.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: The Sydney daily press,
particularly that with Rugby League lean-
ings, has been much perturbed because that
excellent Rugby Union forward Pick Rang,
of Northern Suburbs, is boxing as a pro-
fessional—and, incidentally, he is boxing re-
markably well. It is argued that the Maori
cannot play amateur football, “which is
absurd,” as an old school acquaintance of us
all used to say. The Union has never de-
barred a professional from playing in its
ranks, provided he is not a professional foot-
baller. This has been the rule ever since
the establishment of the amateur code in
Britain, and as the international Amateur
Federation accepts the ruling of its affiliated
organisations as to what constitutes pro-
fessionalism in their own particular sport,
the Rugby Union’s ruling is the law in that
matter. N.S.W. and, Queensland have
through many years been represented by pro-
fessional fighters, runners and swimmers,
and quite legally, too.
* * * *
“Hooker”: Parramatta is becoming a
Rugby Union stronghold once more; the
League game, as was said by an alderman
who objected _to the one club playing the
code monopolising the principal ground, is
“on the wane.” In the days before the
district club system, the historic up-river
town boasted some mighty footballers. Sides
from Queensland were accom.moda.tcd with a
dust-up against the Parramattans, either
under the title of County of Cumberland or
Parramatta and District. It was this side
which drew with Queensland in 1892, when
the visiting Northerners had cleaned up
every other opponent on the tour, includ-
ing N.S.W. twice. It took Parramatta
a week to get over the subsequent celebra-
tions, and some of the tourists longer than
that.
* * * *
.“Everton”: The stoush spirit will have to
be eradicated from N.S.W. Soccer if the
game _is to flourish. Last season provided
exhibitions of blackguardism on the part
of spectators and players alike. Already
this year there are signs of an increase of
this unpleasant aspect of the game. The
trouble is based on the fact that, with the
warring Association and League at each
other’s throats, authority is divided. A player
dealt with by one body goes over to the other,
and no questions seem to be asked. For
their own sakes the warring factions would
do well to get together in the matter of
enforcing discipline among both players and
spectators.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Boodle”: Golf has small chance of be-
coming a_ people’s game in N. S. Wales;
those behind it are seeing to that. A club
has just started in a Sydney suburb which
demands 10 guineas subscription and the
purchase of £5O worth of debentures as a
preliminary, and then charges its members
green fees every time they play. This busi-
ness of fining people for using their own
club, so to speak, seems to be confined to
Australia. The golfer who can’t afford to
join a club is in a worse position, financi-
ally, unless he cares to spend four or five
hours over 18 holes at Moore Park, where
about 500 matches kick off every fine Sun-
day. At Avalon, a rough litle 9-hole course
near Newport, a foursome has to disburse
16s. before losing a ball —and Avalon doesn't
even possess a changing-room. In Britain
“artisans’ golf” is encouraged by every
player, from the Prince downwards; here
the aim evidently is to make it what Treas-
urer Theodore rightly called “a rigidly ex-
clusive pastime.”
* * * *
“T.T.8.”: Hagen and Kirkwood were not
“mercilessly barracked” throughout their
match at Blacktown, N.S.W. (B. 16/4/’3O).
A small but admittedly noisy minority
cheered derisively when Kirkwood missed a
foot putt on the 12th green, after Downs had
sunk a 35-footer to make him and his partner
one up. For the rest of the game the
visitors were applauded just as much as the
local pros, when good strokes were made.
* * * *
“Red Mud”: Toowoomba (Q.) recently
saw something new in the golfing line. Four
players were hard at a foursome for a stake
of. a couple of dozen golf-balls when heavy
rain set in and compelled an adjournment to
the 19th. There a heated argument arose
as to the swimming abilities of the four. It
was decided that the destination of the golf-
ball stake, since golf was not possible for
the present, should be settled by a relay
swimming match. To their fellow-golfers’
surprise the quartette were of the same mind
next morning and the match came off.
* * * *-
“The McHaggis”: An American golfing
journal has been conducting a symposium
on the laws of golf, and has arrived at the
conclusion that less than five per cent, of
players, including the cracks, have a decent
grip of the tangled legislation. This is
DARBY MUNRO, who rode Venetian
Lady, winner of the Doncaster
Handicap.
hardly to be wondered at, considering that
the people who frame those laws arei just as
ignorant as the majority of players. There
are something like a dozen different varieties
of the game played, each of them with its
own peculiar exceptions and reservations.
Such bodies as the Rules Committee of St.
Andrews work overtime trying to solve the
knotty problems submitted to them, and
every decision they arrive at conjures up a
worse hurdle than the last one.
* X # !|C
“McFusel”: Freak golf, which has long-
been raging in America, seems to have
invaded sober-sided Britain. England re-
cently saw a match round 18 holes at Son-
ning golf links between a pilot flying a Moth
’plane and the club professional for a wager
of £25. The player went round in the ordi-
nary fashion, recording the fine score of 68,
9 under the course bogey. The aeronaut
had to fly the course and drop the balls he
took up with him on the greens while keep-
ing a height of at least 100 ft. His card was
29, only one hole (a four) giving any trouble.
Incidentally, lie brought off what must be a
record “drive,” dropping one ball on the roof
of an express train, which carried it to
London.
The Watermen
“Hawthorn”: Victoria has been a lot
behind the sister States in deciding on a
crew for the King’s Cup race. It was
expected that after Mercantile had won the
State championship the club crew would be
picked in the - lump. H'owever, the selectors
decided on a mixed crew, and since the first
tentative choice was made there have bean
sweeping alterations in personnel and posi-
tions. R. Jelbart, a good lump of a lad from
University, will be the State rep. in the
Australian Sculls. He beat a good field for
the State event, including A. H. Cambridge,
of Bendigo, who won the Australian title in
1925.
♦ ♦ ❖ *
“Hambledon”; Cairns is one of the many
Queensland centres where rowing flourishes,
even if it is not outstanding in the matter of
State championships like some of its
Southern Queensland rivals.; and it is vastly
proud of its new boatshed. To instance how
the times have changed and the amenities
of the sugar town with them, it may be said
that the edifice stands almost in the exact
spot where the Sheriff of N.Q. once fell
over a slumbering crocodile. He was return-
ing from a circuit dinner with the Bar of
the Supreme Court, and when he recounted his
adventure later at the rum-and-milk hour,
the blase Cairnsites said they wondered at
his moderation —one crocodile under such
conditions in Cairns being too trifling for
comment.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot”: The annual report of the
N.S.W. Tennis Association indicates that
the organisation, in spite of its perennial
pleas for economy, is yet maintaining a safe
distance from the bread-line. Its chief bur-
den is the ground at Rushcutter Bay, on
which mortgages to the extent of £20,000
still roost. Interest on these runs to £3400
p.a. and the association is eagerly desirous
of another windfall like the visit of the
Frenchmen, which netted it £3031.
* * * *
_ “Burenda”: This year our tennis autho-
rities seem to have overlooked the fact that
there is no Australian woman player entered
for the Wimbledon tourney, which still bulks
as the world’s greatest meeting. It is an
important mater, for such players as Esna
Boyd and Daphne Akhurst —both now,
unhappily, passed into the limbo of matri-
mony—have done much to point the fact that
Australian girls play tennis as well as their
brothers —sometimes, I think, a little better.
As a Queenslander I want to know why
Miss Hood, whose dad was born on the
station from which my pen-name is taken,
has not been nominated as an Australian
representative. Apart from her tennis ability,
astonishing in such a young player, she has
a personality which has taken Australian
tennis centres by storm. I am game to bet
that at Wimbledon she would be the greatest
favorite since Suzanne deserted.
Car and Cycle
“Spare Tyre” : The troubles Kaye Don had
to encounter at Daytona were not all mecha-
nical. His first trial took place at a great
motor-race meeting on the beach, in the
presence of a huge crowd, and the break-
down of the Silver Bullet’s supercharging
apparatus didn’t occur until it was fairly
obvious that Don wasn’t going to get any-
where near the record' He came into conflict
with the beach officials on more than one
occasion after that by wanting to drive
when conditions were unfavorable. Daytona
doesn’t want another Lee Bible fatality.
Then a rumor went round that Don was
a dud driver and that he was to be super-
seded by Malcolm Campbell. Louis Coatelen,
designer of the Bullet, who went over with
Don and could have spoken authoritatively
on behalf on tne Sunbeam Co., seems to have
regarded such tittle-tattle with contempt, but
a prompt denial would have improved Don’s
temper, much frayed by continued mishaps
and the increasingly unfriendly attitude of
the town authorities. He was a desperate
and angry man towards the finish of his
stay.
* * * *
“Garry” : The application to motor-racing
of the class definitions and restrictions that
have made yachting such a magnificently fair
sport has often been recommended, but the
difficulties have been many. The promotors
of this year’s “Indianapolis 500” have made
a big step forward in that direction. A
minimum weight of 17501 b. and an allowance
of at least 7£lb. per cub. in. of engine capa-
city replace the old restriction, applied to
engine capacity only—it was brought down
to 1500 c.c. last year. Super-chargers are
barred on 4-cycle engines; carburetters are
limited to two, and not more than two
poppet-valves are allowed to each cylinder.
The wheels must have a track of at least
KEITH OLIVER, the Tasmanian cyclist,
who has been riding in the mainland
States.
54in. The effect of the new rules is to
re-admit “stock model” cars and to discour-
age the design of racing freaks—which is all
to the good.
s{e j-«
“Manx”: A notable motor-cycle feat was
accomplished recently by a 500 c.c. Dunelt
machine over the tortuous and hilly Tourist
Trophy course on the Isle of Man. Run-
ning for 16 days and nights, the bike cov-
ered 13,200 miles in a continuous spin. The
38-mile course includes 100 corners and
the crossing of Snaefell Mountain, a rise
of some 2000 ft. The machine was taken
from stock.
* * * ¥
“Sprocket”: Melbourne was responsible
for something unusual when Essendon am -
teurs held a half-mile handicap for wome
cyclists on the Bulla-road. The race wa
won by Thelma Middleton. Her dad was one
of a trio of brothers who bulked big m tne
boom days of cycling 30 years ago, so tHere
must be something in heredity, after all.
Miscellaneous
“Tuart” : The 15 touring Australian crick-
eters were not allowed to say a few words
for publication to the London pressmen who
met them at Naples. They are not to be
permitted to sign autograph-books while in
England. When they reached Victoria
station “platform barriers kept back the
crowd, and only a few privileged persons,
together with newspaper writers and photo-
graphers, were allowed inside.” All this
solemn flummery is enough to make the
great players of the past double up in their
coffins and rock in their bath-chairs. Can
anyone imagine Harry Trott’s team being
shepherded like that, or any of Billy
Murdoch’s, or Percy McDonnell’s? Aus-
tralia is not responsible for these idiotic
restrictions, but it comes in for a share
of the ridicule they invite. Unless the
arrangements are countermanded by the
scoutmaster, or whatever he is, the team
will begin the first match of the tour against
Worcestershire to-day. Leicestershire and
Essex matches follow, and then will come
a really tough proposition—Yorkshire at
Sheffield on May 10.
$ $ $ $
“Deep Slip”: Melbourne Cricket Club
annexed both first- and second-eleven prenaier-
ships, a fact which should help Cussen, J.,
back to convalescence. The club’s president
is slowly but steadily recovering from a
serious operation. During the final matches
he received regular messages as to the state
of the games from Hughie Trumble, the
secretary, who is noted for his Test-match
bowling achievements, his broad-brimmed
cadie and his excellent yarns. Cussen has
been president for over 20 years. One of his
sons is a member of the ’Varsity C. C.
* # * *
“ ’Badian” : Though the Marylebone Club
sent a formidable team which included that
still great bowler Rhodes to the West Indies,
the land of the guava and turtle has been
holding its own well. A batsman we shall
all be glad to see here next season is
Roach, who scored 209 in the third Test,
taking only 65 minutes over the second cen-
tury. Another is Headley, who lias joined
the circle of the super-elect by making a cen-
tury in each innings of the same Test match,
his figures being 114 and 112. Others to do
the trick are Warren Bardsley (Australia
v. England), A. C. Russell (England v.
South Africa), H. Sutcliffe (twice for Eng-
land v. Australia and South Africa) and
W. Hammond (England v. Australia).
Of !!: *
“Clifton” : That reference to the passing
of Mrs. W. G. Grace (B. 2/4/’3O) calls
attention to the promotion of H. E. Grace,
second son of W.G., to the rank of Vice-
Admiral, prior to retirement from the Royal
Navy. There is a long list of Graces in
“Wisden”—it includes Mrs. H. M. Grace,
mother of W.G., E.M. and G.F., and her-
self a hefty cricketer —but I can find no tale
of the Admiral’s cricket performances. He
must have gone, perforce, into tlie navy
a<t 13, so he would have little scope there-
after of keeping up the family traditions.
Brother W. G. junior died in 1905, after
playing for Clifton College, Cambridge and
Gloucestershire.
* * *
“Blue Chalk”: Walter Lindrum’s inten-
tion to return to England next season under
a contract which excludes his former intro-
ducer and mentor, Willie Smith, lias con-
siderably annoyed the Yorkshirem.an, who
talks of dropping out of the game in conse-
quence of this- and other slights, real or
imagined. William will probably think better
of his decision. It is proposed to run future
matches on a points system, Lindrum taking
3 points for a 500 break, and the other lead-
ing players 5. This is expected to lead to
shorter breaks and more of them instead of
the nerve-racking long runs.
* * * *
“Stickfast”: There is still good money in
Australia for a smart ped. Rupert Hodge,
who won the Stawell (Vic.) Easter Gift,
collected £250 and a £5 ss. medal from the
club, and a tidy swag from the bookmakers:
Briggs received £9O for second, Davis £4O
for third and Stanton £2O for fourth. Handi-
capped at 11| yards, Hodge got home by a
foot in 11 13-16 sec. —the best time for
the famous 130-yards race since 1922, when
Till, off 10J yards, registered 11 7-10th see.
Hodge is a'Lakes Entrance lad and started
favorite. Former champion Tim Banner,
winner of the 1925 Gift, showed a flash of
his old form by capturing his heat off 3
yards. The veteran was handicapped to con-
cede a yard to Robertson, champion of Aus-
tralasia (or, as the Motordrome people have
it, “the world”), who was beaten in an-
other heat.


-if
ms
00
(
G&
pB ,,..,j
t mi t mk\ naair'-^—-
FORSTER’S STEEL
CLOTHES LOCKERS
For Clubs, Schools, Theatres, Offices, Factories
and Homes. Supplied singly or in rows; hand-
somely finished in olive-green baked enamel.
Ensure Cleanliness. Save fire risk, and pro-
vide security against theft. Every locker fitted
with a thief-proof lock. Supplied with base
or legs as desired.
The illustration shows the three most popular
styles, namely, single-tier, two-tier and four-
tier. The two- or four-tier arrangement of
lockers is very advantageous where floor space
is a consideration. Can be supplied with hasp
and staple, so that the users may supply their
own padlocks if desired.
Forster’s Steel Lockers will set a good example
iu your business.
STORE YOUR STOCK IN
FORSTER’S STEEL SHELVING
PROVIDES GREATER SPACE STRONGER THAN WOOD
Many business houses are now installing Steel Shelving for
greater storage efficiency, and Forster’s adjustable Steel
Shelving is playing a leading part in this progressive trend.
Steel shelving gives increased storage space, is fire-resisting,
more attractive, has double the strength and life of wood-
work, and its first cost is the last cost. Whatever your line
of business, consider the many advantages of storing your
stock in steel.
Forster’s Steel Shelving can be made to your
own design and specifications. Plans supplied
free after consultation. Let us know your
requirements.
For the Engineering and Motor Trades. The illustration
shows an island stack with shelves on three sides. The
drawers shown are divided into suitable compartments
for the storage of small drills and taps, etc., or small
bolts and nuts. Other designs for Stores, Banks,
Libraries, Hospitals, Offices, Music-shops, etc.
FORSTER’S STEEL
PRODUCTS
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
SHELVING CLOSETS, BINS, CUPBOARDS
FOR EVERY STORAGE NEED.
Write now, or call, for further information.
p
iff
r , .
'i iV'?
P-
- • ii
:J" P4~
FORSTER’S BEDSTEADS LTD.
MARY ANN STREET,
ULTIMO, SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 4247 (3 lines).
Thousands of both men
and women have been
astonished with the unusual
success of this modern treat-
ment for such uric acid dis-
orders as backache and rheu-
matism. Men who were losing
their strength, activity and
power —who were being
termed “old-timers” —have
“come back” with such freshness and vigor as to
amaze their friends; women who were fast losing
their capability and charm have found a new way to
health! Hundreds of one-time sufferers have
voluntarily recorded their experiences of this
remedy, most of the letters stating that successful
results were promptly obtained where every other
form of treatment had failed.
FIND THE CAUSE!
How useless to soothe a symptom and leave the cause untouched!
Yet thousands are doing that—taking old-fashioned kidney pills
and salts—things which merely treat symptoms! But with the modern
remedy— Harrison’s Pills —all this is changed. Harrison’s Pills
have shown people they can easily get rid of uric acid aches and
pains, gaining such energy and freshness as they have not known
for years. By getting rid of the deadly uric deposits—as well as
uric acid itself—Harrison’s Pills give HEALTH— reaI health —
positively, safely, and without fail!
GET BACK YOUR YOUTH.
It is a demonstrated fact that of all the remedies offered for uric acid
and rheumatic disorders, not one equals Harrison’s Pills for giving
quick, safe, sure relief and a definite return to healthy activity. There
is nothing like this remedy for those who feel too old before their
time. . . . Nothing like Harrison’s Pills for bringing back the elastic
step of youth! Harrison’s Pills bear the signature of a London
Physician, and are sold under straightforward guarantee.
STOP
Backache
and
Rheumatism
This Easy Way
sd
MADE
HIM A NEW MAN.
Dear Sirs,—Due to uric acid and severe rheu-
matism I was practically dead at 77. In spite
of the severity of my trouble, Harrison’s Pills
have made a new man of me, and I feel not a
day older than fifty. I have never known any
remedy act in so remarkably beneficial a
manner. (Signed) B. Jacobson, Blackman’s
Point, N.S.W.
£lOO
will be paid to anyone proving this is not a safe and
effective remedy bearing a genuine London doctor’s
signature.
YOU TAKE NO RISK WHATEVER WITH
HARRISON’S PILLS.
Either you throw off your ageing pains and weakness, gaining quick,
unmistakable benefit, or the trial costs you nothing! Simply get a
package of Harrison’s Pills from the nearest chemist or store.
Three sizes, at 2/-, 3/- and 3/-. Take as directed, and if not
freed from your aches and pains—if not more than pleased with
the improvements in your health, strength and general bearing—
your money will be returned. This guarantee clearly protects you
in making a trial, but if preferred a Free Sample will be sent
on receipt of name and address with stamp for postage. Address *
Amalgamated Laboratories,
46-52 Carrington Street, Sydney.
TAKE
HARRISON’S
Backache & Bladder PILLS
For Backache, Rheumatism, Neuritis, Constipation, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Stiff, Swollen Joints, Urinary and Bladder Troubles.
hf**-


SEASONS MAY COME and
SEASONS MAY GO
But the holiday appeal of
Mt. Buffalo
National Park
never varies.
Spring, summer, autumn and winter
alike, the mountain scenery is the
finest in Australia, just as the Gov-
ernment Chalet is the finest holiday-
house in Australia.
Consult the
Government Tourist Bureaux,
Queen’s Walk, Melbourne, or
Martin Place, Sydney.
SMUS3I33I
Zsz: 'm
m
AH 31A
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled— lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
A A
LONC LIFE
Owing to special
process in manu-
facture of the lead,
the ‘Mephisto’ Copy-
ing Pencil lasts much
longer, yet writes
easily and smoothly
without heavy
pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
THE POPULAR
COPYING PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checking, etc.
From all Stationers, etc.
L. & C. HARDTMTTTH, of “KOH-I-NOOR” Pencil fra*
London Office—29, Kmgsway, W.C.2
Australian Representative—
JOHN MAODODGALL, ft O. Box 165, SYDNEY.
MEN ARE HUMAN
BY VANCE PALMER.
ILLU STRf^TIOMS
Q/\RYL: LINDSAY-
CHAPTER XXIX ( Continued ).
THE image of the girl, lying there in her
father’s tin hut, was before his mind as
he rode. She was fighting not merely for
her own life, but for something more pre-
cious still: she carried in her body a link
with the dead. A link also with himself.
His only hope of posterity lay in this child
Duncan’s daughter was bearing: he realised
it for the first time! Yet the knowledge
did not rouse any irony in his mind, for
his sharp sense of pride and personal
identity had become dulled at the edge.
All his ambitions had been trampled into
the earth of that scalded plain seventy
miles away, and the smell of that earth was
in his nostrils. He rode on in the sodden
rain, thinking of the ride Josie had under-
taken the night before, and of the thoughts
that must have filled her. There was a
pathetic surrender to some dim, racial in-
stinct in the way she had tracked back to
the familiar bend of the creek in the
moment of crisis. ,
The darkness had fallen before he
reached the township. At the hotel he
found that the doctor had just come back
after a long journey and had gone to bed.
MeCurdie, bursting
into his room, dis-
covered him asleep
with his mouth open,
a bottle of whisky and
a siphon on the table
beside him and a
paper-bhcked novel
lying open on the floor.
He shook him by the
shoulder.
“Wake up, Doctor!
There’s an urgent case!
Didn’t you get my
message?”
The doctor opened a
pair of stupid lethargic
eyes and stared at him.
He knew and respected
MeCurdie, but at first
he did not recognise
the strained' face and
the big, mud-spattered
figure. When MeCurdie
jerked out explanations
he cut him short with
a sleepy gesture.
“Sorry, old man. It’s
too far—too far alto-
gether. I’ve driven
eighty miles to-day
over a hell of a road,
and I’m dead tired. If
I can manage it, I’ll go
in the morning.”
“The devil you will!”
MeCurdie burst ouit.
“You’re going now.
The rain’s cleared, and
there’s a moon.”
“What?” said the
doctor, staring at him.
“You’re going to set
out within fifteen
minute s,” repeated
MeCurdie, “and I’m
going to see that you
do it. It’s a life or
death case. You can
be there in the car be-
fore sunrise.”
There was a fanatical
intensity in his eyes
that roused the doctor
and made him uneasy.
Obviously MeCurdie
was not drunk, yet he
looked capable of any
sort of violence. Sit-
ting up in bfed he
buttoned the neck of
his pyjamas and said
peevishly:
“A damned peremptory way of talking,
isn’t it? Who is- this person? You said
something about Duncan’s daughter. Dun-
can’s the old chap who rides your fences,
isn’t he?”
McCurdie’s eyes flashed.
“The woman I’m concerned about is the
mother of my son’s child.”
There was a curious mixture of defiance
and pride in the way he rapped out the
words.
“Oh, in that case” began the doctor,
feeling for his trousers; and a little later
he was clattering down the street in his
car. McCurdie did not accompany him,
for he had no object in getting back. When
he had fed and stabled his horse he returned
to the bar and called for a hot rum, sitting
down at a table in the corner and resting
his chin on his hands. An unusual sense
of fatigue was weighing down his limbs
and dulling his brain, and life seemed to
have ebbed away from him.
“It’s the end!” he was thinking. “Bottom
dropped out of everything It’s the
end.” .
Later in the evening two drovers, wrest-
ling playfully, came crashing into his table.
The empty glass fell on the floor and was
crushed beneath a heavy boot, but he did
not notice it, for he was lying forward on
the table with his, head on his arms and
his mouth slightly open.
The crowd began to collect around him,
staring at the massive shoulders and the
bald head that looked as if■ it might roll
off the table like a large egg. There was
hardly a man there in whom the name oi
McCurdie did not rouse some latent hos-
tility. He was one of the big owners, a
politician to boot, a man who had fought
all his life for the interests of his class.
They conceived him as an evil-eyed octopus,
drawing the wealth of others into his grasp
and grudging a decent living to any man
who worked with his hands. But there was
nothing very arrogant about him as he lay
there, with his body humped, his neck limp
and the elemental earth plastered over him.
“He’s taken the knock,” said a cattle-
buyer coming up from behind. “I saw him
riding in. Boyd got settled on Maroubra
a couple of days ago.” .
“No!” said half a dozen voices sceptically.
In a mofnent a change came into the
atmosphere around the sleeping man. Voices
dropped to a husky whisper: there was a
queer, awkward sympathy in the eyes oi
everyone. The two drovers who had crasnea
into the table bent down, and putting their
arms underneath him carried him upstairs
to his bed as gently as if he were a child.
chapteiTxxx.
The Road Home.
The sky had cleared next morning when
McCurdie rode out of the township. Across
the tall grass the wind ran in ripples, and
high in the blue above flocks of ibises
made fantastic patterns against the sky as
they flew. „ , ,
McCurdie rode slowly, for the car-tracks
in the drying earth ahead of him told him
that the doctor had not mistaken the way.
And for the first time in his life he was not
anxious to see the Abernethy gates. Yet
the sense of having been shattered by some-
thing cruel and malignant in the universe
had left him. The sun shone mildly on
the napo of his neck; the smell of a moist
and nourished earth was in his nostrils,
his body responded automatically to the
step of a fresh horse beneath him.
(Continued on page 50.)
"'He’s taken the knock,' said a cattle-buyer, coming up from behind. 'Boyd got settled. un maroubra a couple of days ago."


FORCE
3.
ft. w*r. y ■ „.t - iKS\-H
■f -^368
■Bill
.i9H
■siis
■HI
■wiii
m
:
a -M
wm
■ -,
1 : .
®9
If [Jf _
/TVr.
SK
■.
.
mm
mmgmiim
mmm »&$ s ■"
■
j
?■;■■
w
■llB
C 56
Oc\e
is £° Yce 1 AeVv*'
* 4
onsets Yv
< v e
*T
A ed gttety « set -
Clyde Batteries for Cars, Radio and Home
Lighting are made by THE CLYDE EN-
GINEERING CO., LTD., GRANVILLE,
N.S.W., largest manufacturers of storage
batteries in Australia. Obtainable from
all garages and radio dealers.
FOR CARS, RADIO & HOME LIGHTING
Hams
Clyde Radio
Battery.
BATTERY SALES AND
SERVICE DIVISION,
106-110 Goulburn Street,
Sydney.
Clyde Home
Lighting
Battery.
INTER-STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
QUEENSLAND: The Clyde Engineer-
ing Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: The Clyde Engineering
Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Cornell,
Limited, Adelaide.
WEST. AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun and
Johnstone (W.A.) Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA: W. & G. Gonders Pty., LtdL, Launceston and Hoba^
50-ton
A GOOD LEAD!
Existing members of the
A.M.P. SOCIETY
effected ADDITIONAL ASSURANCES ON
THEIR LIVES in the year 1929
for
£5,810,000.
All Surplus divided ANNUALLY amongst the participating
members.
ASSETS - - f 78,000,000
ENQUIRIES INVITEE.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
F. T. BRIDGES,
Acting General Manag<
c fkeres a
Tiine-Poyd
Pencil to
match any
'Swan Pen
Black and
Jade with
Boiled Gold
Bands
30/-
Ladies’ Pen
Lavender
22/6
Jade with
Rolled Gold
£ands
30,-
FOR
'SWAN*
PENS &
ALL PENS
unovcpvoi
aJvOOA
ku£d give
am cUdmuon
to ifu ‘Swan Iht
HARMONIOUS AND
CONTRASTING TONES
ARE NOW AVAILABLE
TO MEET THE TREND
IN POPULAR TASTE
COLOURED “SWANS” FROM 22/6
(OTHER SELF-FILLING “SWANS” FROM 17/6
Black or Mottled).
“FynePoynt” Pencils from 7/6
Self-Filling “Blackbird" Pens from 9/-
Swan’
DFNS
rin*
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., Swan House, London, W.I.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., iBi, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
f


BY APPOINTMENT
TO H.M.THEJSINO
BOTTLED
GUARANTEED
-wi‘A GILBEV
FftoOt'CC D* f *GtANO
S°
Omiiiy - CasHe OE UNSWEETEN ED<3//» Disiiw
from i/nmalTecJ Corn end recti f>eV
aIW i A Gilbey* Distillery Ha& Hie
delicate flavor of the Juniper beery
Meisun; - fcbottles contain apfrojiimatelv one ytlon
IPINT6IOZS
pnooocc OF ENGLAND
Report FromSiRCHARiESA camekcn
f '•*»*« ten, *vV Hff* >* **&***!
.JX“t -
lcn ’ "* stock of «i»r arhcle mrtiestoenetineOA** 4
if, Castle OE GIN
*•'*'<*+>!? * proowiy a ' it ' ua< “ d -rrr-P
‘"'t’ «lo- this Gin Mill te tone »*“W *
ace, <,tract of Jumper berriei
S^-OHW*
PROOuCC.©* £N6t»flP
ST
se
Aq
0
% r> '%
*, lv
tX' 1 « °
NO INCREASE
IN PRICE
DRY GIIN
132


Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
1 a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d’hote Dinner, 217-
Special Supper from 10 o’clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant——
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/-
’Phone M 4 13 1 for your reservation.
Wentworth Hotel’s New Policy
To meet the requirement of the public during the present depres-
sion, the management of the Wentworth Hotel has decided to
reduce rates immediately. The new tariff, as outlined below, will
continue to operate until further notice. The service and cuisine
will still be maintained at the usual high Wentworth standard of
efficiency and quality.
Single Rooms, with Breakfast only, from 15/-
Single Rooms, with Bath, Breakfast
only, from 20/-
Single Rooms, per day, inclusive, from 25/-
Single Rooms per day, inclusive with
Bath, from 35/-
Double Rooms per day, Breakfast only,
two persons, from ...... 30/-
Double Rooms per day, inclusive, two
persons, from 50/•
Double Rooms with Bath, Sitting-room,
inclusive, two persons,
from 65/•
Double Rooms De Luxe, with Bath,
Sitting-room, inclusive, two
persons, from 70/-
Efte WENTWORTH
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Under
Royal
Warrant
sd
To EM.
[Qn6
George V
Vintage 1920.
3)
Australasian Agents—
S wift & Company Li mitsd
SYDNEY.
CHAMPACKS
Qiaiiesllridsic^
Reims
PELLISSOIM
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Averts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Have you
ordered
Kraft Cheese?
Anzac Day came as a break in a gay
week, and it is many a year since Sydney
rose so stirringly to the occasion. St. Mary’s
bells tolled solemnly as the lads in mufti, many
not even wearing their badges, swung round
the Queen’s-square, the ranks so thinned, yet
which one among them did not march in com-
pany with a shade? A little sprig of rose-
mary in the hatband or in coat lapel; but
what a message it carried! It is now really
a sad procession; youth has departed from
it, and most of the faces are lined and the
hair is greying. Some of the boys of the
6tli Light Horse carried their own small
sons on their shoulders, the proudest young-
sters in the whole world. No social distinc-
tions here--% swaggie with his matilda
marched with the 12th, and there was an
epic in that.
The ranks swelled as they marched up
King-street. “Hallo, there, Ginge!” shouted
from the footpath brought “Oh, you, Frank
—come in here!” and Frank joined his old
unit. “Wliat-ho, Mick! What are you
doing there? Hop in!” and the sth Division
had another reinstousliment. Many an old
lady wore her medals beneath her rosemary,
and many not so old just carried memories
in their faces and arms full of flowers to
take to the Gates of Remembrance at Wool-
loomooloo, where the last embrace was
exchanged.
And after the procession such a rush for
trams, thoughtless youth bustling age in
their eagerness to board with tin billies and
other picnic equipment. But all day long
there were watchers round the Cenotaph,
from the few pilgrims who came at dawn
to put their posies on the shrine of remem-
brance, right on to twilight, like suppliants
before the sanctuary lamp on a high altar.
The god of the elements is no ladies’ man.
He sent grey skies and spitting rain for
the day set apart specially for women to
air their autumn finery at Randwick; and
most women took no chance of spoiling
their best duds, and sensible well-worn coats
and skirts, stout footwear and cut-away felt
hats did service for the dress parades be-
tween stands and tote and betting ring.
Saturday was a kindlier day, sunshiny and
with just sufficient nip in the breeze to
justify the wearing of pelts; so the A.J.C.
ended in a flutter of furs —to be exchanged
later for the shimmer of silks, froth' of
chiffon and billow of tulle at the Royal
Golf Club Ball. Those who were not in the
Three Hundred took their glad rags to
the various jazz salons and footed it just as
joyously.
At the Royal Sydney Golf Club 11 matrons
of the elect and one equally elect spinster
gathered the richest cream at a race-week
ball. The jewels and the gowns out-glit-
tered anything lately seen in this city. All
the decorations were in yellow, and the
majority of the guests selected yellow shades
for their modish robes, which in some in-
stances sported short trains, and in every
instance reached the ankles either back or
front. The hostesses were the consorts of
the lions of the business, legal, medical and
newspaper world. Their chief object after
giving general enjoyment was to initiate
four lucky girls into society, but there was
nothing so banal as the formal presentation,
now the chief bait of pseudo-social charity
balls. They really were four lqvely young-
sters —Margaret Honey, of Darling Point,
who looked delectable in white chiffon that
had glints of silver and sparks of crystal
in its billows; Catherine Rundle, the' tall
daughter of the Charlie Rundles, of Darling
Point, who trailed golden roses down the
back of her deep cream chiffon frock; Olma
Osborne, the Potts Point Oliver Osbornes’
girl, fair in blue lace; and Norah Hoi-
royde, another Darling Point bud, daughter
of the youthful-looking Mrs. Eustace Hol-
royde. Norah wore a rather sophisticated
gown of primrose moire and carried a posy
of gold rosebuds. The Knox clan was there
in force, and Streets and Fairfaxes and Mac-
Cormicks and Alexander Gordons (these
were among the hostesses) and the squat-
tocracy was well represented.
Quite a skim-milk affair by comparison
was the Country party’s ball at the Ambas-
sadors, but none the less enjoyable. The
Metropolitan branch fixed it up to give
the country visitors a first-hand chance of
having a word with Minister Bruxner. He
came along after the University Club dinner,
but Mrs. Bruxner was on the floor earlier
with her girls Alice and Edith.
The Women’s Country Club also had a
ball last week, again at the Ambassadors.
It was given a topical flavor with decorations
of golden Easter eggs.
The grand finale of the conference of
music-teachers was the welcome party to
Backhaus at Farmers. The pre-eminent
pianist looked like Beethoven in a benevolent
mood; and he kept up the amiable expression
throughout the musical programme. Cer-
tainly it was an excellent one, Hogstoel,
Gladstone Bell and Wilfred Arlom giving a
trio, Gwen Selva singing to Margaret
Chalmers’s accompanying and Roy Agnew
playing his own compositions and being
encored. The master still smiled even when
president Faunce Allman, after a few quick
words of welcome, plunged into a lengthy
dissertation on the current conference, and
returned thanks to various officers. Cer-
tainly he came back to the subject of the
welcome, and was beginning to intimate to
Backhaus that the musicians were really
honored by his presence when the Premier
and Mrs. Bavin arrived to let the musician
know what they thought of him.
Mrs. Backhaus reflected hubby’s ami-
ability, smiling sweetly from a fair com-
plexion framed with dark hair softly grey-
ing. She wore an exquisitely-fitting and
flowing gown of black georgette with a cape
fastened to the shoulders with fine bands
of flashing diamente. Professor Tasman
Lovell brought a sweet-faced spouse, who
draped herself tastefully in black velvet.
Between speeches and supper some of the
crowd tried the dancing-floor.
Young Lord Waleran, who fluttered the
flappers’ hearts at the race-week parties, is
a direct descendant of Nelson. The family
first broke into Debrett when William Wal-
rond, M.P., was made a baronet in 1876.
His wife was Lady Charlotte Nelson, only
surviving child and heiress of England’s
greatest admiral. The present baron is thus
connected with the Hood family, one of
whose members, Victor, became as Austra-
lian as “Better-not” Wallington. One of
his collaterals married Elsie Harrison, of
Sydney, and Captain Hyde, R.A.N., married
another.
Two Darling Point matrons added their
quota to the week’s whirl. Westralian pic-
ture-kniglit Tom Coombe’s lady and Mrs.
Charles Pye gave big dancing- parties at
their respective homes.
The Anzac Fellowship of Women saw that
the Graythwaite boys had a bit of Easter
jollity by bringing them a concert party on
Anzac eve. Most of the male artists were
original Anzacs.
Geoffrey Fairfax was a widower who left
no children. Brother Jim, who died 18
months ago, left one boy, Warwick; and he
alone of all the Fairfaxes remains in the
“S. M. Herald” office. Considering how
tightly the “Herald” has been bound to the
family it is astonishing how few of its mem-
bers have shared in the responsibilities. John,
the founder of the house, left two sons,
Edward and James. Both started under
their father, but only James stayed there.
James had fiv.e sons. Only two, Geoffrey
and James, Went into the family business
to stick, though Charles, the eldest son, began
there. Girls have been extraordinarily
scarce. John had none ; James I. had one (she
is still living) ; Geoffrey and James 11. could
not count even one between them. Con-
sidering the power the family has had in
its hands its members have been extraor-
dinarily diffident and modest. Edward of
the second generation and Geoffrey of the
third, whose death is now being mourned,
were perhaps the most outstanding examples
of this rather unexpected quality; no
doubt it helped his generous nature to carry
him through life without an enemy.
Walter Kingsmill, President of the Senate,
and his soft-spoken wife have gone back to
Canberra, after frankly enjoying the. delights
of the Easter festivities. The Kingsmills
came from Westralia, and the lady has
decided that Sydney is more convenient to
Federal headquarters than Melbourne can
possibly be. Besides, Sydney’s winter climate
is more like that of the genial West.
The University Club gave a reception to
open its new home. The Lieut.-Governor,
although president, was not the host; Jus-
tice Halse Rogers had that job, he being
chairman. You cannot belong to the club
unless you have a University degree—and
of course other qualifications, the main one
being the wherewithal. And then it is a
male club; but members can bring- the: r
wives on special occasions by invitation.
It is such a cosy place, too, and quite com-
fortably held the 300 guests who took tea
to the, strains of an orchestra, and admired
the blooming window-boxes.
The Alliance Franqaise got the ears of
Australian members tuned in with a farce
preceding the dance at the Ambassadors on
Thursday night. Consul-General for Belgium
tfenri Segaert and president Alfred Wunder-
lich were the chief laugh-producers. Con-
sul-General fpr France and his wife, she chic
in black velvet, sat in the front row and
chuckled their approval. Vice-Consul Bour-
gain’s athletic figure was prominent in the
dance, at which Mrs. Alfred Wunderlich,
with a priceless bit of Venetian point deco-
rating the decolletagc of her black gown.
. hostessed a big family party: son Charlie
was there with a wife clad in rose velvet;
a daughter’s jade slippers peeped beneath
a lovely long white chiffon frock all crystal
studded; Dr, Otto and his blonde wife in
black; and nephew Ernest and Mrs. Ernest
in parchment lace coverings. With them
were volatile Paul Estripeaut, his tall dark
wife and her merry sister Margot Higiu-
botham. The Phillipe Scamps couple brought
their tall, fair Susanne in a youthful frock
of black lace. Mrs. Henry, of the French
library, wore emerald green draperies, and
Mrs. Raymond Thevennet danced in black
after her histrionic performance. The gather-
ing was really a parade of beautifully cut
Paris frocks, all with long flowing lines but
with gracious cuts to show ankles and feet
shod in exquisite shoes of colored kid, or
black ones beaded or crystal embroidered.
The Musical Association again chose the
Easter season for its annual conference.
Among the delegates and visitors were sev-
eral nuns from country convents, who took a
keen interest in the daily sessions at the King’s
Hall. Premier Bavin opened the harmoni-
ous proceedings, and told the gathering that
the only way to combat “canned” music was
by maintaining the highest level and train-
ing the taste of the community. He didn’t
explain how T the musicians are to exist while
so laudably engaged. Incidentally, some of
them think that the public’s education is
not being advanced by the Carillon. At
the recital before the Chamber Music Con-
cert in the Great Hall of the University,
many sensitive ears were so assaulted that
their owners stuffed them with shuddering
fingers.
The National Council of Women put some
body into the social frivols of the gay week
when members met at the Royal Empire
Society’s rooms to think over Dame Janet
Campbell’s report on our not very satisfac-
tory infjwit and maternal mortality. Drs.
Sandford Morgan, (Constance Darcy and
Margaret H'arper presented the important
points, which The Bulletin’s medical ex-
perts have already discussed. One point
might be made clearer than it generally is,
for our comfort. In N. S. Wales a pretty
large number of imperfectly trained nurses
were registered when registration first be-
came necessary; and as these drop out the
statistics ought to improve. If they don’t
tnere will be something wrong with the
training.
The Women’s United Association also put
some substance into the froth with a debate
“Should married women compete in indus-
try?” The definite Mrs. Kenneth Street led
the ayes and “went big” until the dignified,
white-haired Mrs. T. G. Millner put the
case for the objectors in sharp-cut sentences.
As for example; “When women marry they
enter upon an obligation to serve the future
generation, and their best brains are needed
in the home.” Anyhow, she has proved her
case with deeds. Mrs. Earle Page took the
side of the married worker and thought she
deserved more consideration: an American
firm was quoted which doesn’t make the
usual early start on Monday mornings so
that the married women on its staff may do
the family wash before turning up bright and
sparkling to its wages job. One listener was
pop-eyed with amazement. “Good Heavens!”
she murmured. “What happens if it rains on
Mondays?”
The Housewives’ Progressive Associa-
tion’s contribution to the week’s interest was
a wedding of Higher Thought with Social
Amenities: members presented a pageant at
the Y.W.C.A. showing the evolution of
fashion during the past hundred years. It
was all the more delightful because most of
the gowns were originals. One princess robe
walking-frock had belonged to Queen Alex-
andra. But when it was all over most of
us sighed contentedly. The old-time frocks
might be very quaint or very decorative, but
the frocks of to-day score on points for
utility and comfort.
The room in The Bulletin office which
a month ago was piled high with manu-
scripts, entered for the Second Novel Com-
petition, begins to wear its old empty,
hungry look. Three-fourths of the entries
have gone home, with hopes of better luck
next time; a select few which the judges
thought deserved consideration as serials are.
retained for a week or two longer. Thus
far, in addition to the prize novels, three
fine stories have been selected for print in
The Bulletin, and the necessary arrange-
ments have been made with the authors;
one of these stories of exceptional merit is
by the South Australian, John Crisp, and
contains one character as well drawn, the
serial-tasters think, as any character in any
novel yet produced in Australia.
Etta Cowan is the hon. secretary of the
Pattic Fotheringbame testimonial fund,
which Sydney
]j r e sswomen
have been
organising for
the pioneer of
social report-
ing in Syd-
ney. Etta looks
as if she is
calculating
how many
tables she can
fill for the
Two - Fifteen
bridge party
at the Arts
Club on May
2. She wauts
to assure play-
ers that there
will be no sell-
ing of any-
thing whatever
in the card-
room. Still, if
anyone forgets her cards or scorers, she will
be able to procure them reasonably in the
vestibule. The Du Reiny Studio made our
picture.
Matters of great import are being dis-
cussed unhurriedly at David Jones’s; for
this year the Country Women delayed their
conference until all the Easter frivols were
over. On Monday night they had a recep-
tion just to get better acquainted, for they
have come from every corner and the middle
of the State. Part of the business will be
the selection of a new president; Mrs. Matt
Sawyer, in office, is standing for re-election ;
and Mrs. Hugh Munro, the original presi-
dent, who did so much foundation work, and
Mrs. Colin Venn have also nominated.
The Royal Alexandra Hospital is a noble
institution. Go there—it will do you good
to see baby eyes following the nurses’ move-
ments with an understanding gratitude. The
Alexandra is now celebrating its golden
jubilee with its first art union. Fifty years
without an art union—in itself that sounds
almost like a miracle! Still, if you don’t
want to encourage it to have a second, you
can show the way by sending a cheque to
the Campaign Offices, in Kembla Buildings.
Randwick Catholics started the wheels of
winter charity events by giving a public
ball at the Sydney Town Hall on Thursday
night. The Premier looked in after giving
Backliaus the glad hand. Most of the
patrons had names familiar in the realms
of the sport of kings.
The marriage between Mrs. Beatrice
Sheridan and Baron de Tuyll is an accom-
plished fact. The gyves were fastened in
February at H'oly Trinity Church, Bromp-
tou-road. This Letter told its readers the
details of the baron’s possessions, etc., some
months ago. Mrs. Sheridan is a daughter
of the late Edward Hordern.
Barbara Knox is once more plunging into
amateur theatricals. With her help Noel
Coward’s “Hay Fever” will rage at the Savoy
on May 1, 2 and 3, in aid of the Bush Book
Club. G.-G. Stonehaven and his lady will
bo present at one performance.
If a week or so ago you had looked behind
the great hoarding which runs along one side
of the road to the Milson’s Point punt you
would have disturbed a big man with a
sketching pad. A friendly chap you would
have found him, and before long he would
have told you he was J. C. Goodhart, and
had come from Broken Hill to lay the
foundations for some etchings of the big
bridge. Goodhart is the very successful
business man who makes a hobby of etching
and whose reproductions of mining machinery
and backblock humpies are pretty well
known now all over the world. With his
wife and daughter he had made a round
trip of it —had motored first to Adelaide and
Victor Harbor and then hugged the coast
right round to Sydney.


fy-pmig o sfronrm Jnixy-
Sdmoy humi m jmi]
COUNTLESS housewives include
Swallow and Ariell’s Plum
Puddings in their menu once
a week at least. Their richness,
fruitiness and incomparable flavor
have made them first favorite in
Australian homes for over fifty
years. They’re made from an
“Olde Englishe” recipe, too! In-
valuable when unexpected guests
arrive.
Ask your Grocer , and Serve One
Every Sunday.
fuvtMcur &c iMUeWi
DELICIOUS
PLUM PUDDINGS
WHEREEVER YOU TRADE BUY AUSTRALIAN MADE
■t/ z
- \
ďs
Food
Reid. Trade Mark.
fretful
backward— delicate!
I have a home for young
and delicate children and
every fresh child which
comes under my care is at
once put on a diet of
Benger’s Food, for I h n “
that by far the best food
I have ever tried.
— Matron.
Write for booklet to : —BENGER S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800 [?]
Buckley [?] Nu[?] [?]
[?]
Swinging along in the procession of Anzac
Day, a band struck up “Where Are the Boys
of tlie Old Brigade?’’ Twenty-one thousand
of the Diggers answered the question in per-
son, and the rest still live in honored memory.
Some were represented by small boys, who
proudly wore their fathers’ medals, and there
were some little girls, too, stepping along,
generally hatless, behind King’s colors or
battalion flag. Boy Scout and Wolf Cub
bands and a couple of schoolboy bands also
took part. As is customary, there were many
motor-cars carrying disabled ex-soldiers, and
a few cot casus were carried on covered vans
preceding the march. General Monash led
the procession and received hearty recogni-
tion from the crowds that lined the route.
Archbishop Head walked with the C.O. of
the Imperial troops, 1200 men who gave an
object-lesson in the perfect rhythm of their
marching. The Blind men staunchly followed
their purple banner and were loudly cheered.
The Returned Army Nurses Club was repre-
sented by a platoon of members. Lord Somers
was at the saluting base at Parliament House,
where rose tlie Cenotaph, piled high with
wreaths. Shortly before the Imperial men
came along, his Ex. went down towards
Collins-street and took station at the head
of the column.
Wreaths commenced to arrive at the Ceno-
taph early in the morning, not sent in
florists’ boxes but brought personally. A
group of Maorilanders, some in uniform,
some in civvies, laid down a huge wreath
with a crown of white dahlias; ex-service
women ca«me with a tribute of poppies.
And so it went on, until the masses of
flowers overflowed to the pavement and a
white fence was placed about them. Mel-
bourne treats Anzac Day as a very solemn
occasion and save for the crowds attending
the church services and wa«tching the pro-
cession the city was deserted. Light ram
and sunshine alternated, and the weather
was cold.
War-time reminiscences were exchanged in
shoals at the Returned Army Nurses’ Club
at Anzac House on Anzac Eve, when there
was a< reunion of members. About 150 were
present, representative of nearly all the
States. There was also a visitor from Burma,
Mrs. Emery.
Melbourne women have positively rushed
tweeds for their winter garb, and a chill
wind and a sprinkle of rain brought the
material out in all its modes and hues at
Caulfield on Saturday. Frocks, coat-and-
skirt suits, ensembles and top-coats appeared
in heather mixtures, flecks and stripes.
Black-and-white and grey-and-black pat-
terns looked very smart, and some of the
brown-and-fawn tonings were becoming. A
novelty was a coat of the half-mourning
hues trimmed with black and white bone
buttons larger than a shilling. These decked
huge gauntlet cuffs and the pockets and
wandered in a double line down the centre
of the back. Another variation of tweed
fashions was a wrap-over covering in choco-
late that was fringed to the extent of a
couple of inches all the way round, collar,
cuffs and pocket included. Among the tweed
wearers in the committee ladies’ box were
Mrs. Clive Leonard and Mrs. H. P. Willis,
the last-named being accompanied by Mrs.
Burnside, whose pale grey felt hat wreathed
with emu feathers, topped a sapphire bine
cloth suit. June Baillieu wore navy blue
with a knitted cap of the fisher-girl variety,
and Sandra Shackell had a dash of white on
a black tailored suit worn with stone-
marten furs. Mrs. Richard Linton wore
lovely furs over a biscuit-colored gown. The
course was looking beautiful, the lawns, as
smooth as bowling greens, being bordered
with phlox.
Undergrads and their flapper friends
thronged the Yarra* banks on Thursday after-
noon when finals of the inter-collegiate
boatraces were contested. Ormond again
won the big event and the Mervyn Bournes
Higgins trophy, defeating Queen’s. Ormond
also won the race for second crews.
The Old Grammarians’ Association of
Firbank College had dinner a<t the Wattle
on Thursday night to celebrate the coming
of age of their Alma Mater. The school flag
was proudly displayed amid flowers and
foliage. Archdeacon Hancock, president of
the school council, presided, and Mrs. Han-
cock was a guest. Miss M. Cameron, the
headmistress, was there in nigger-brown lace,
and the hon. sec. of the 0.G.A., Joyce Young,
who had a busy time, was in magpie chiffon.
Zoe Harrison, Joyce Young, Gwen Harrison
and Helene Jacoby made music.
A recent motor run along the Dandenong-
road to Berwick, returning by way of Narre
Warren, revealed a parched countryside.
But it is suffering from something besides
parch. In the fruit district growers with
orchards along the highway were offering
apples at 2s. 6d. a case, and in many cases
the fruit was being allowed to drop ungatk-
red from the over-laden trees.
The most harassed woman in this city is
Miss M. Irving, who is battling hard to
raise enough cash to finance the Australian
women’s hockey team, dated to leave on
May 24 on a world-wide tour. They intend
hopping ashore at South Africa, and after
a series of matches a trek will be made
through Rhodesia, with the British Isles and
Europe to follow on. This ambitious pro-
gramme was conceived when the Englisa
hockey girls visited Australia, _ and though
the entire feminine hockey section has con-
centrated its energies on devising ways and
means quite a large, amount is still needed to
see them through. However, many social
fixtures have been organised, and hope runs
high.
Old families of the Western district were
linked at Hamilton kirk when Elsie, daugh-
ter of the W. McKay Sliaws, of Rifle Downs,
wedded Arthur Ricardo, eldest son of Mr.
and Mrs. R. G. Beggs, of Buln Gherin. The
bride wore white taffeta frilled with silk net,
to which was anchored a train of silver
lame, over which flowed white tulle. I B.ls-
blue flowered taffeta clothed a quartette of
’maids, and the train-bearer was in shaded
blends of pink satin and tulle.
Among the numerous knot-tyings of
Easter-tide was that of the Rev. Frederic
Geoffrey Hughes and Mary, eldest daughter
of Mrs. T. S. Humble, of Newtown, Geelong.
Two ’maids draped in amber-colored chiffon
velvet with harmonising felt hats accom-
panied the bride, whose soft white georgette
and silver-lace gown was topped with Limer-
ick lace and tulle. The bridegroom is the
son of Major-General and Mrs. F. G. Hughes,
of St. Kilda, and Canon E. S. Hughes forged
the links at All Saints’, St. Kilda.
Maisie Bennett, a daughter of Mrs. W. J.
Wearne, broke away from the traditional
trappings at her wedding with Charles Lang-
ley, son of Charles Langley of Adelaide.
She wore' a lime-green moire gown with a
transparent hem, and her tulle veil was or
the same shade. Her ’maid, Eileen Ward,
dressed the part in ninon of a deeper tone ot
green with a felt hat of avintion mode, and
Yvonne and Phyllis 'Wearne, her step-sisters,
did duty as trainbearers in green satin frocks
of Kate Greenaway design. After-rejoicings
were held at the Wearnes’ home m Irving-
road, Toorak.
This is the wife of pianist Backhaus. She
was born in South America, but went with
her parents to Cologne at a very early age.
She plays the
piano and the
harp, but
there’s only
room for one
virtuoso in a
family, so she
consoles her-
self for a wan-
dering life by
collecting old
furniture and
knick - knacks,
ivories, china
and old sil-
ver in parti-
cular, to gar-
nish her home
when she has
one. The Back-
hauses have
a place in Eng-
land, but they
don’t see muck
of it, and Mrs.
Backhans has visions of a home, when the
wanderings are over; in Switzerland or Aus-
tria. Vienna would be most congenial. There,
she says, the very porters in the pubs were
brought up on Beethoven; and the postman
tosses in the letters as he whistles a theme from
the immortal Fifth. Mrs. Backliaus prides
herself on her cookery—is it not nearly the
greatest of all arts? —and she and her
famous husband will fare famously after
their Sydney recitals. The good Mr. Grave-
stock has engaged them a flat equipped
with a large gas-stove.
Trinity College chapel was chosen for the
marriage of Frank Juttner, the medico son of
Dr. and Mrs. F. J. E. Juttner, Tanunda
(S.A.), and Annabella, daughter of Mrs.
George Aylwin, of Brighton. Creamy satin,
tulle and a sheaf of matching gladioli figured
in the leading lady’s array, and her two
attendant ’maids wore peach-pink georgette
and wreaths of roses.
To celebrate her arrival at voting age
Merlyn Sloper, with the backing of her
mother, Mrs. M. Sloper, entertained friends
at a dance at the new South Yarra club,
the Rendezvous. The rooms were decorated
with autumn foliage, red dahlias and gladioli.
At supper, served in the blue dining-room
downstairs, Mrs. Sloper shared some of the
limelight with pretty Alice Campbell and
Harry Norman, who announced their
engagement.
When uncle Owen Callender got on his
feet and proposed the health of Wilson
Anderson, a cheer such as only flows from
country throats filled the spacious apart-
ment. It was young Anderson’s commg-ot-
age party, and all residents near and far
gathered at Station House, Lakeside, for
the party. There was dancing in the draw-
ing-room and musical entertainment for non-
dancers. Amongst the guests were Captain
and Mrs. Kenny, with their daughter, Mr.
and Mrs. Andy Miles, the George Chalkers,
Lettie and Tessie Callender, Chrissie Thom-
son, Mick Brady and Keith Miles.
During the Easter holidays visitors to
Frankston were able to flourish racquets in
a tournament arranged by the Long Island
Tennis Club, trophies for which were pre-
sented by Col. Harold Cohen. A dance and
bridge party at The Fernery followed the
tournament, which was organised by R- A.
Onians and A. Jackson, the hon. sec. of the
club. Dr. and Mrs. Forbes Mackenzie, Dr.
and Mrs. Charles Maxwell and Mr. and Mrs.
J. W. McComas were among those who
assembled at the beautifully laid out sea-
side da<nce-resort, now managed by Gertrude
Rennie.
Mrs. T. J. Ryan, widow of a Bananaland
Premier who passed out in the heyday of
his political
career, looks
out of this
’’•inflow. She
has made her
koine in Mel-
bourne, where
her son and
daughter are
at boarding-
schools. She
is one of the
most valued
workers for
St. Vincent’s
Hospital, and
St. Anthony’s
Orphanage
numbers her
among its best
friends. Dur-
ing Mrs. Mer-
son Cooper’s
absence on
holiday in
Europe, she is deputising for her as head of
the central auxiliary of St. Vincent’s. The
picture is from the Johnstone O Shannessy
studio,
Melbourne’s appetite for light music of the
pre-jazz era continues unabated. Following
the extended run of “The Maid of the
Mountains” “The Merry Widow ’ made a
successful reappearance at the Royal on
Saturday, with Gladys Moncneff as Soma
giving double encores at frequent intervals.
Miss Moncrieff makes her first entry _ m
white georgette with cascades of glistening
fringe, and rivulets of diamonds decked her
dark hair. As part of her black-and-gold
Marsovian outfit a bird of paradise trails
from her head-dress, and moderate sized
black millinery of modern mode replaces the
cartwheel hat that used to deck the widow
at the finale. Romola Hansen, a Melbourne
girl, is Natalie, slim and pretty in draperies
of coral pink. Heaps of white tulle appear
beneath her royal-blue velvet coat of the
the last act. Piles of flowers were heaped
on the stage at the- final curtain on the
first night.
St. Paul’s Cathedral had a jubilee of the
laying of its foundation-stone on Sunday.
The commemoration service in the afternoon
followed the same form as that of 50 years
ago, when the Marquis of Normanby, then
Governor of Victoria, planted the slab upon
its mortary bed. The stone wasn’t inscribed
and its exact location is now unknown.
The Tramway Department has, so far, a
rich reward for its foresight in purchasing
and reserving as a recreation ground a plot
of land at the terminus of the Wattle Park
line. It’s a fine playground for children,
equipped with swings, see-saws, self-pro-
pelled merry-go-rounds, horizontal bars and
a sand-heap for the babies. Magnificent
gum-trees spread shade over plenty of seats,
and superannuated cable-cars do service as
picnic shelters, fitted with tables. The
plantations of wattle laid out by the Wattle
League have grown apace and promise to
make a fine showing in season. The tea-
chalet, perched on a rise, does good business.
The comedy “Love at Second Sight,” now
being produced in Sydney, is a dramatisation
by Miles Malleson of Margot Neville’s novel
“Safety First,” which has also been filmed.
The play was first put on at the London
Royalty with Dennis Eadie in the leading
role, just before that actor’s death In the
cinema version, which was done in England,
Mary Brough and Brian Aherne play the
principal parts. Margot Neville is the name
taken by two sister collaborators, Ann Neville
and Margot Goyder, of Melbourne, who
wrote “Safety First” while on a visit to
England three or four years ago. iheir
latest book, “Giving the Bride Away, has
just arrived from their London publisher, and
good sales are reported in the U.lv. and
U.S.A. A play entitled “Wolf,” m which a
third writer, Beckett Lindsay (Mrs. Daiyl
Lindsay), aided, is to he tried out in the
English provinces. Gerald Kirby, the London
revue star, who is now in Austialia, haling
seen “Love at Second Sight,” approached
the two authors with a view to collabora-'
tion, and together they have just completed
an Australian revue.
Morgan .Tageurs, who was prominent in
Irish National movements in yic. for
40 years or more, is now living m semi-
retirement in a charming home at Brighton.
Gardening is his hobby, but his study with
its fine collection of books and records has
still a big attraction for him. Twelve years
ago his newspaper controversy on Irish
affairs with Dr. Alex. Leeper, a former
Warden of Trinity College (Melb. Uni.), was
followed with interest by thousands. One
son J.D., won a decoration between 1914
and 1918,’ and his name is on the honor-roll
of the Lands Department, on whose staff he
was before the Great War. Tbe *other son,
Peter is a senior sub. on Melb. Sun-I ic.
A daughter, who graduated in domestic
science, is a demonstrator on the Better
Farming train.
Mrs. Herold Kyng, a pianist who adheres
to her maiden name of Gwenda Paul for
professional purposes, gave a recital, her
first in this city, last week She is a
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Paul, of Brisbane,
and studied with Emily Suter in the Banana-
land capital, after which a scholarship took
her to the Royal College of Music in
London. Very youthful and slight, with
bobbed brown locks, she displayed unusual
power in the Bach-Liszt Fantasia and I ugue
in G minor, and some other numbers, \ ery
beautiful flowers rewarded the player. Her
husband, a baritone, who is on the staff ot
the Uni.-Con„ assisted, and drew upon Bach
for some of his contributions.
Sister May Schrader, who served in
pitals at the front during the Great War,
passed over suddenly at Easter time. Her
service included two years in E ranee, wheie
she was highly commended. Afterwards she
was in the dental clinic of the Education
Department.
Mrs. Colin Campbell is busy packing suit-
cases for herself and her young family ana
good-byes are being said. She is to make her
home in Scotland. Word has come from her
Colin, already on the spot, that he has been
offered the job of factor to the Duke ot
Argyll. There seems to be an old lamuj
tradition still observed that the vast estates
must be under the direction of a kinsman.
Dr. Jacques Demarquette is leaving this
week for the New Hebrides, and will call m
at New Caledonia on his way back, ram
quest is for information concerning native lile
and his impressions will later appear in <
series of articles. Before returning to
Europe he proposes to visit Tibet, wheto
he hopes to garner some of the ai J9. xe ?
wisdom reputed to be carefully guaided
the monasteries of the world s root.
Castlemaine is to have a Picture of the
Duchess of York for its local Gallery. Bn-
minister Scullin, a director of that .institu-
tion, originated the idea and commissio
artist James Quinn, now in London, to cal
on the Duchess and gain her consent ioi the
sittings. This has been granted, and James
will do a three-quarter-length portrait in
oils. There are a number of Diggers in this
Victorian township who were patients at the
Glamis Castle Hospital where the EncDJSs
then Lady Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon, helped to
nurse them, and the move meets with then
hearty approval.
Dr. and Mrs. Walker Sinclair have
returned after three years in Britain and on
the Continent, with a. short sojourn in the
U.S.A.
Lud Mayor Luxton and his wife went on
to Buffalo for the Easter holidays, buckul
up by the news that their son Lewis, at
Cambridge, bad broken the college 440 y
sprint record by 15 seconds.
Myers has lately engaged a trio of girl
musicians to fill in the afternoon-tea
with high-class music. Fritz Hai .
commissioned to select the players, <
nominees have beauty as well as talent
recommend them. Helen Rennie, n ,
of the eating section of the emporium,
chosen a pretty uniform for the three, who
are styled the Gipsy Trio. They
modern frocks of nutmeg-hued crepe de
Chine with boleros of golden brown ’
and swathed caps of the same with dangnn 0
ends.


ms
Cotv^’fS,^
;ho\ cC ,' Attitiet • ;.;, % vhe"
«,» tiUfw*
co«« to® «'? t co®*_
cup s
the r
the
best
Chi^'
thC v -
« SV
bCSI So Aesig^’ a p gth
ness
ct* 1
tons' 0
Ask to see the latest
SHELLEY
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
ly Lucie Attweu.
& Hilda Cowham
Dom e stic Ware
Jelly Moulds
• HtTISH HAD!
IN CASE ©F ANY DIFFICULTY IN OBTAINING
WRITE TO : -
T«V. HIATH C CO. LTD,
232. CLARENCE «▼.
d
p sf HAIR
0% » KD
here's
♦urny-
&
L
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
SCPCULemis cmexican)
UkUtuct Stain .
♦removes the grey**
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
I) unobtainable locally, posted
direct Q/6), 6d. being postage.
©
Amusements,
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait,
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE BELLE OF NEW YORK.
CRITERION: SCANDAL,
(Commencing Next Saturday).
ROYAL: THE HAWK.
I C. WILLIAMS ON, L T D.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
GLADYS MONCRIEFF in,
THE MERRY WIDOW.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE:
NELLIE STEWART in
ROMANCE.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
WHITE & EDGLEY’S NEW MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
in
LOVE LIES.
IJOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
“ MELBOURNE.
ALL TALKING PROGRAMME.
LENORE ULRIC in
FROZEN JUSTICE,
AND
THE THIRTEENTH CHAIR,
With CONRAD NAGEL.
(Both Pictures Conditional.)
Public Notice.
Dalgety and Company, Limited
Interim Dividend
AN Interim Dividend of 5/- per share, being at
the rate of 10 per cent, per annum, has been
declared and will be payable at the Melbourne Office
of the Company, 461-471 Bourke Street, on and
after May 15.
The Transfer Books will be closed from May 1
to May 15, both days inclusive.
h.'n. giblin l
E. H. MOSS f
Joint Managers -
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS RELATING TO THE
CARRYING OUT OF BACTERIOLOGI-
CAL PROCESSES.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
A No. 10898/19 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in tlie above or
for the granting of a license to make,, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith and
Hassel, Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A MACHINE
HAVING A HORIZONTAL ARM SLID-
ABLY SUPPORTING A TOOL-HOLDER.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 13161/28 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith and
Hassel, Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN SHOCK-ABSOR-
BERS FOR VEHICLES.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 1908/26 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith and
Hassel, Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
MEASURING AND COST COMPUTING
MACHINES.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
A No. 11530/23 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith and
Hassel, Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
APPARATUS FOR MAKING MOULDS
FOR CASTING.
THE proprietors of Commonwealth Patent
* No. 10988/19 are prepared to negotiate
for the sale of their rights in the above or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith and
Hassel, Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
METHOD OF MAKING MOULDS FOR
CASTING.
THE proprietors of Commonwealth Patent
A No. 10931/19 are prepared to negotiate
for the sale of their rights in the above or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith and
Hassel, Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
Sw&&?s
Inch Thick Carpet
or Linoleum ? —-
twice as easily
,'!r ji *< •;
A i A v
i'i',.'. 1 ' -A..' I wAm v\i%«
W , Vv , »/**SJ»i
t<,y.,'tf'
6-/
BISSELL'S
Hi-Lo Sweeper
There is no more hard bearing
down because the lever action
“Hi-Lo” Brush Control cuts
the operating effort in half at
the same time it doubles the
brush range. This improved
sweeper will surprise you.
At leading merchants. Booklet on request
Bissell Carpet Sweeper Co.
Grand Rapids, Michigan, U. S. A.
Export Department, 46 West Broadway
New York, N. Y.
Oldest and Largest Sweeper Makers
is
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICfc. 3d,
Contains evcrythinQ a woman needs to Tenon).
brother taken into custody while he was on
the way to invest his sisters’ half-crowns on
the tote. As it is the only day in the year
that the family patronise a racecourse, their
feelings can be imagined.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
New winter turnouts had their first airing
at the Easter meetings. Browns, wine shades
and dark greens were favorites, but tweeds
and all-black ensembles had their following.
Lady Campion’s ring velvets were worn with
a little fawn hat; Mrs. Kerr-Pearse shared
the v.-r. cubby hole in grey satin ; secretary
Marillier’s wife wore beige lace with fitch
furs and a brown felt hat; Mrs. Byron was
slim in black satin; and Jacqueline Wright
paced the lawns with her in burgundy vel-
vets. Mrs. Athol Cross wore flounces in
tobacco browns; a white fox warmed the
shoulders of Mrs. Ednie Brown’s blue and
white suit; Gwen Cadd topped her ensemble
with matching millinery of the color of
tawny port; Judy Holland clad her small
self in mushroom chenille; and tiny fawn
spots danced upon Jean Lang’s black cos-
tume. The wife of our newest Judge topped
her smart coat and skirt with a burgundy
velour; Robin Hood green was the choice
of Peggy White, and her sister was in mul-
berry velvets. Kathleen Castieau had a fur
collar on her smart tailored coat, and Mrs.
I. O’Hara’s smart black was much admired.
His Majesty’s, transformed, sheltered
“School for Scandal.” A gold crown on
an embossed velvet cushion lies in the middle
of the magnificent new curtain, all old gold
and rose. Gold fringe decorates pink cur-
tains on the boxes, and girl ushers wear
attractive pink-satin uniforms. Wooden
floors and carpets replace much of the cold
cement. The seats are resprung and re-
upholstered, and the two centre aisles obviate
the necessity for climbing over 20 pairs of
knees to get to your place in the stalls.
Finally there are seats, with backs and arm-
rests, for the much-enduring “gods.” On the
opening night Allan Wilkie managed to get
in a word of praise for Miss Elsie Pittard,
who looked after the renovations.
The Northam Easter Ball, as ever, was
a huge success. The hall was hung with
cotton-palm fronds. Mrs. Maud Dempster,
who sponsored the show, smiled her satis-
faction in a little black and gold bridge coat
over her black georgettes. Judy Clarkson
chose black chenille georgettes ; Mrs. Parkins,
moonbeam-blue; Heleine Pasche, a handsome
garment of parchment taffetas with a bertha
and flared hem of ecru lace; apricot taffetas
fashioned Jessie Parker’s frock, and sister
Nancy was a swirl of lettuce-green in hail-
spot net; Nancy Hughes was in pink-figured
taffetas, and Betty Vivash in frills of misty
blue.
Ron Ford won the title of tennis cham-
pion at the Easter tournament in King’s
Park, and youthful Mollie McGrath bore off
the palm in the. women’s event. The gardens
around the pavilion, a vivid canopy of reds,
burnt orange and purples, were a contrast to
the sober frocking. Among the competitors
were Peter Smith, Enid Morse, Mrs. J. Mor-
rison, Margaret Officer and Betty Wood.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Town practically emptied itself for the
Easter holidays, what with the Military
Encampment at New Norfolk, Scout camps,
the Field Naturalist camp and country race
meetings. The Field Nats, chose the lovely
site of Coles Bay and the Schontens for
their activities.
Eric Rice, the much-travelled assistant
secretary of the Overseas League, blew in at
Hobart and galvanised the local branch of
the organisation into new life by a lecture
at the Town Hall. Miss O’Grady was
present, and Mrs. Fred Grant, Mr. A.
Mclntyre and Mrs. Scott Power supplied
musical items.
Chieftain Tom Murdoch and Mrs. Mur-
doch entertained the Rev. R. G. Maclntyre,
managing director of the Burnside Orphan-
age Homes near Parramatta, along with a
host of other guests and members of the
Caledonian Society, at their home at St.
Andrew’s, Montpelier-road. The former
Moderator-General of the Presbyterian
Church in Australia gave an address on
the Homes, and a short play “The Coward,”
written by Ada Lane, was staged in the ball-
room.
The Arthur Maxwells, after a long fur-
lough in the Speck, have returned to their
rubber plantation in Malaya, taking with
them their Tasmanian-born son.
Josie Melville opened a season at the
Theatre Royal with “The Girl Friend,”
staged here for the first time. After a week’s
run the operetta has given place to “Sally,”
which is also being well patronised.
Dr. and Mrs. Lee, Mass. (U.S.A.), have
taken a house in Sandy Bay for a few
months. Mrs. Lee is collecting material for
a book on the Speck’s history.
The Launceston Golf Club opened its
winter season in lovely weather with a good
roll-tfp of members. Dr. and Mrs. Ramsay,
Mrs. Ewing and Mrs. Anthony Raeburn
tea-ed the crowd in the club-house, which was
tastefully decorated with bowls of golden
flowers and autumn leaves.
The Stanley Tretheweys have flitted to
Perth (W.A.). Mrs. Trethewey was one of
the Sydney Chancellor girls before her mar-
riage. She has been much farewelled during
the last few weeks.
AT THE BACK OF THE NORTH WIND.
Darwin.
A farewell party was given in the Rectory
garden to A. S. Ivempthorne, clerk in charge
of the cable station, who has been transferred
to London. The Bishop of Polynesia, the
guest’s brother, who is also on his way to
England, was at the gathering. Mrs. Finniss,
president of the Ladies’ Guild, presented the
guest with a case of pipes, in recognition
of his services to Christ Church, Darwin.
Da*rwin now has two mails a month, one
by the usual sea-route, and another overland,
the gap between the north and south railway
lines being bridged by a motor service.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland's
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Easter gave us an eggful of sunshine this
year, and there were throngs about the city
and at the seaside resorts, while the road to
Mount Tambourine carried a long line of
cars during the holidays. The Easter meetings
of the Q.T.C. were well attended, their
Exes, being among the racegoers. Lady Good-
win wore rose-beige crepe de Chine on
the first day, and on the second day Lido
blue. The Blair lady was in black satin
georgette and Mrs. A. E. Moore in bottle
green. In the evening Government House
gave a dinner to Sir Dudley and Lady de
Chair, Mrs. Gilbert Wilson, Mr. and Mrs.
George Brooke a«nd Mr. Edward Cahill.
Afterwards George Brooke sang and Eddie
Cahill played.
Mary Macgregor got a great reception from
her home town in “The Trial of Mary
Dugan” at Her Majesty’s. Among the
first-nighters were Dr. a*nd Mrs. V. N. B.
Willis, Mr. and Mrs. Russell Brown, Mr.
and Mrs. H. Mort, Mr. and Mrs. P. B. Mac-
gregor, the L. M. Bonds, Mrs. Victor Drury,
Barbara Sisley, Mary Norton, Eileen Moore
and Dr. Newton Macgregor.
The City Hall was packed for the sacred
concert and organ recital on Easter Sunday
night. The combined choirs sang the Halle-
lujah Chorus and the Gloria. R. J. Archi-
bald played the organ.
Eileen and Dulcie Reid gave a dinner and
dance at Lennon’s among palms and roses
in honor of about-to-be-wedded Marion Han-
cock and Duncan Me Whir ter. Marion, Han-
cock was in a long-skirted daffodil frock,
Eileen Reid in green velvet and Dulcie in
black silk lace broidered in blue. Mrs.
T. Garde gave Kathleen Walton,' another
bride-elect, a party at Rowe’s.
White flowers decked St. Andrew’s Church,
Indooroopilly, when William T. Robertson
took to wife Laurie, younger daughter of
the Jack Grahams, of Avonlea, and grand-
daughter of William Graham, one time of
St. Ronan’s station, Darling Downs, and
Highlands, Albion. Both are old Queens-
land families. The bride was in white
mariette with a tulle veil lace cap a*nd
carried a bouquet of eucharis lilies. Lilith
Graham and Molly Hillcoat ’maided in prim-
rose mariette. The R. Hillcoats’ home,
Teneriffe
House, was
lent for the
reception.
This laugh-
ing face be-
longs to Sybil
Lucas, second
daughter of
Mr. and Mrs.
F. S. Lucas,
Wilston, Bris-
b a n e, the
affianced o f
Jules Moxon,
only son of the
Tom Moxons,
Camden, Too-
wong. Jules
is a keen pilot
who recently
broke the light-
'plane record
from Brisbane
to Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
. His Ex. and Lady H'ore-Ruthven have
issued invitations for an at-home on May
13 to meet the Governor-General and Lady
Stonehaven.
The number of motors that whirled race-
goers to the Oakbank Eastertide meeting
beat all previous records. His Ex. was
present with his new A.D.C., Captain Wil-
liams. A gentle rain the night before laid
some of the dust, and on the whole" the
weather was kind to the picnic meeting of
the year. Tweeds and felt hats predomi-
nated. Mrs. F. A. Tennant, always a smart
frocker, wore a red coat over a red blue
and black floral toilette, topped by a red
hat. Mrs. 11. D. Young, the president’s
wife, featured a black ensemble relieved by
a pink scarf. Brown and beige were the
most popular shades.
Weddings have been keeping the social
world on the move. On the Tuesday after
Easter, Wallace Alexander, son of the Car-
ruthers knight and lady, of Waverley
(N.S.W.), was married to pretty Primrose
Malcolm at St. Michael’s Church, Mitcham.
A motor-car and a kolinsky fur coat figured
among the bridegroom’s gifts to the bride.
The four bridesmaids were given pearl neck-
laces. Mrs. Barr-M'alcolm, the bride’s
mother, held a reception at the Piccadilly
after the ceremony. The same evening Clive,
elder son of Mrs. Frank Bonython, and
grandson of S’Langdon Bonython, was
wedded to Lorna Martin at St. Peter’s
Cathedral.
On Wednesday afternoon Dennis Heath,
whose father is a captain of industry in
Birmingham, England, married Ada, second
daughter of Adelaide’s Mayoral Bonytlions.
at St. John’s Church. Women came in hun-
dreds to see the ceremony; they thronged
the church and invaded the chancel, and
even the bride’s veil sustained some damage
in the crush after the ceremony. Later a
dense crowd gathered outside St. Corynton,
where the reception was held. The young
couple leave for England by the Mooltan.
So energetic were the police at Oakbank
in their efforts to nab bookmakers that a
family party picnicking in a motor-car had
their day’s pleasure spoilt by seeing their


Rerv-lißotioix
fh c
Dog food
Supreme
A perfectly balanced meat ration;
keeps dogs of all kinds in
the pink of condition.
In Tins. READY TO SERVE.
A Perfectly-balanced Ration.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB
P. O. Box 1821, Melbourne
Ken-T tPation
Accommodation
160.
Central,
Comfortable,
Convenient,
aMts. G.P.O
Excellent
Cuisin*
Billiards,
Danoinsr
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TARIFF:
Weekly,
£3/3/- to
£ 4/47-
Daily,
11/6 to 12/6.
Room & B'fast,
8/6 to 9/6
FL2004
F 3575
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Hoorn Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a iff Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
THE PASSAGE
By Vance Palmer
ILLUSTRATIONS BY ARIA
“Meanwhile, in the deep
water, jar out, the sharks
tacked to and fro like silent
sheep-dogs”....
Synopsis : His father, Boh Cal-
laway, drowned at the har of the
Passage, Lew has to support his
mother, Hughie and two other child-
ren. Lew is a fisherman, satisfied
enough icith the life, hut slightly dis-
gruntled at the idea of having to carry
the heavy end of the log all his days.
He especially resents the determina-
tion of his mother (Anna) not to allow
Hughie to become a fisherman. Hughie,
Lew admits to himself, has brains; it
is Hughie Uncle Tony calls when any-
thing is wrong with his boat, and
Kunkel at the store sends for him when
he is behind with his accounts. The
mother is also disturbed —over Lew’s
attachment for Clem McNair, daugh-
ter of a man icho has made money out
of patent medicine and owns land on
one side of the Passage, which he note
thinks of selling to a speculator,
Osborne. Anna believes Clem; who
lives in the city, and comes to the
Passage only occasionally, is out of
Lew’s class. Lew’s diffidence, however,
prevents closer relationship. Hughie is
offered a job by Kunkel, which he and
his mother are discussing when Uncle
Tony arrives.
CHAPTER V ( Continued ).
UNCLE TONY stood with a sugar-bag
over his shoulder, a mischievous
gleam in his wind-narrowed eyes,
surveying the family of his dead fisher-
brother. Anna, the widow, looked up
with a flush, for she always resented
the way Tony came up, silent as a
blaekfellow on his bare feet; she had an
uneasy feeling that he overheard not only
her words, but her thoughts. Controlling
herself, though, she dusted a chair for him
and turned again to the stove.
“Have a cup of tea,” she said mechani-
cally. “I was just going to make one.”
“Thanks,” he replied, taking off his hat.
“I just brought over some vegetables,
Anna. Rachel’s got so many cabbages
coming on she doesn’t know what to do
with ’em.... Hullo, Hughie; what’s this
I hear about old Kunkel offering you a
job? Going to put your head in the
collar, eh? "McEvoy’ll be chewing the rag
when he hears about it. Had his eye on
you a long time as a spare hand for the
boat. Wouldn’t that be more in your line?”
Hughie reddened.
“Ask Mother. She don’t want me to do
anything yet.” , .
“Hughie’s got no call to be in a hurry,
said Anna, putting the teapot on the table.
“He’s got a long life ahead of him. It’d
pay him better to look before he leapt.”
“Look before you leap, and then don’t
leap, eh?” Uncle Tony grinned. “Like what
the rabbit did on the edge of the waterhole
with the dog a yard behind. Oh, well,
that’s all right as long as you’re not feeling
pushed. How’s the fishing? Lew netting
enough to keep Fred and Marnie in pocket-
money?”
“Lew’s not growling,” was Anna’s retort.
“He takes things as they come.’
“Good old plugger, Lew,” chuckled Uncle
Tony. “Puts his head well down and bul-
locks away. There’d be a hell of a mix-up,
Anna, if he suddenly got work-shy like
some of us Callaways. Took it into his head
to have a walk-about like Bob used to, eh?”
He was enjoying himself hugely, curving
his tanned arms round his cup of tea on
the table and looking from Anna to Hughie
with his small, twinkling eyes. There was
something satyr-like in his broad face,
with its thick-lipped mouth and cascade of
moustache; something inhuman in the
delight he took in stripping Anna bare of
all her pretentions. Hughie was uncomfort-
able. At the first chance he sneaked off to
resume work on his canoe, leaving his two
elders to their own skirmish. He hadn’t
any fear now of being sent away to school.
In spite of his mother’s talk he knew she
had given in.
It was the realisation of this defeat that
put a sullenness into Anna’s eyes as she
sat opposite Tony at the table, sipping her
tea and staring over his shoulder at the
washing on the line outside. She was con-
scious of something in him that always
triumphed over her, even when she had
the best of an argument, and a succession
of little duels about the children made her
regard him, and even Rachel, with hostility.
Wasn’t it just because their own family had
deserted them that they were so anxious
hers should stick to the Passage? She
hated the thought of being forced to live
so near them that they knew everything
that was going on in the house. What a
difference from the days when she had first
come to the place! Then there had been
comfort in the thought of having such close
neighbors, and it was actually in Tony’s
big, rambling house that all her children
had been born; Rachel, too,- possessed a
mysterious knowledge of herbs and home-
brewed medicines that made her a good
nurse and doctor for the whole group. Bred
on an isolated orchard in the ranges, Anna
had at first enjoyed the novelty and security
of this semi-communal life. What a queer
atmosphere of play had hovered over the
little settlement then! She and Rachel
washed together and helped clean one an-
other’s houses, the children had their meals
in whichever place was handiest, supplies
were bought in common. Then there were
the dances on Saturday nights when Bob
took his fiddle over to Tony’s verandah
and Corny Lait, the Wiegerts and some
of the other fishermen mooched in, staying
to sing songs and tell yarns till the early
hours of the morning. Laughter, and
chairs being knocked over by the children
till they fell asleep in odd corners of the
house and had to be rooted out with the
aid of a lantern when the time came to
go home! What did it matter if they had
to scratch for a living in the summer
months when fish were scarce! There was
never a time when they were actually
hungry or unclothed, and, anyway, they
were all in the one boat. Nothing very
dreadful could happen as long as they
stuck together!
But now—it was time they had grown out
of that primitive, grubbing sort of life
now! She was determined her children
shouldn’t drift about like Tony’s; picking
up a chance job or a chance husband. Yet
when she looked at Tony’s round, cropped
head she realised he would never see any-
thing in her ambitions but a peg for some
joke or other.
“How’s Essie getting on?” she said with
a touch of malice, as he took up his bag to
go. “Rachel says you never hear from her
now.”
“She did, did she?” Tony countered.
“Women are never satisfied. Essie writes
when she’s got anything to say.”
“Oh well, that ought to be often enough,”
said Anna drily. “Essie was never hard
up for something to talk about.”
“Essie’s like all us Callaways,” said Tony.
“We can all talk the leg off an iron pot,
but we dry up when we’ve got a pen between
our fingers. Dry up at the sight of one,
rather By the way, old McNair and
that girl of his are down, Anna. Look out
for Lew. I saw ’em rowing over to Rath-
bone Island yesterday, and there weren’t
any nets in the boat. It would be no joke
if Lew found a woman that turned his head
and made him upset the family apple-
cart.”
He padded off down to the breakwater
where Hughie was finishing his canoe, and
Anna fancied she heard a faint chuckle
accompany him as he went. She returned
to her jam with a faint prickling sensation
in the skin of her face. It was humiliating
the way this old clown could always find
her weak spots, and go off knowing he had
rubbed salt into them. She had a feeling
that Lew, Hughie, Uncle Tony and this
girl she hadn’t seen at close quarters since
she was a slim, long-haired youngster, were
all in league against her.
CHAPTER VI.
The Store.
It was impossible for Anna to understand
what a fascination Kunkel’s store exer-
cised over Hughie. Ever since as a tiny
youngster he had watched the unpainted
weatherboards being fitted together and
the first supplies carted over from Uncle
Tony’s boat, it had seemed to him a link
with the world as exciting as the pictures
in the illustrated weeklies, and as radiantly
colored as the labels on the fruit-tins.
Even now the smell of the dark little
interior sent the blood to his head. It was
a privilege to sit there of an evening, help-
ing old Kunkel with the accounts, listening
to the talk of- the men who came in, brood-
ing on the fantastic countries from which
the packages along the shelves had come.
A flimsy structure, blown together rather
than built, Kunkel’s store stood on the road
between the fishing village and the new
settlement at Sully’s Beach, and aimed at
supplying both communities with their not
very complex needs. It had been added to
year by year till now its outlines could
hardly be separated from the huge mound
of discarded packing-cases that lay in its
rear. Fly-specked sandshoes, fishing mat-
erial, bathing-caps in striking colors, together
with a few children’s toys and painted
buckets, hung in the windows; but the inside
had a homely smell of chaff, butter, bacon
and boiled lollies. In summer the store was
usually filled with women in filmy frocks
and sun-hats, fingering the piles of paper-
covered novels on the counter, or gazing
vaguely at the tinned things on the shelves
in the effort to plan a laborless meal; in
winter the handful of fishermen gathered
there when their work was done, sitting m a
line on the form along the wall, listening
to the gramophone or the indiscriminate
fragments of news Kunkel tossed to them
from behind his paper.
For Kunkel was always hidden behind a
paper, his short-sighted eyes peering at the
close type, and his pointed, grey moustache
bristling in the pursuit of all kinds of crime
(Continued on next page.)


and
Socially
geographically
the centre of Sydney
To a perfect site “ The Australia ” does full justice. Tho-
roughly modern, restfully luxurious, courteous in service
world-famous in cuisine, yet surprisingly moderate in tariff. 5
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH,
SYDNEY.
Capital
paid-up,
£422,100.
ďs
Telegraphic Address :
‘Austraotel, Sydney *
Illustrated
folder on
request.
HOW MANY TIMES ?
How many times have you promised someone near and dear
that you would, for a mutual purpose, save your money?
How many times have you promised yourself that the next big
opportunity would find you prepared?
How many times have you admitted the wisdom of saving habits
and then left the other fellow to do the saving?
Does it mean anything to you that in Australia there are several
million other fellows steadily saving their spare cash and beating you
to the big opportunity?
Take a Savings Account into partnership—profit is assured.
Cbmmonwcaltl) Savmas Bank of Huetralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
and sedition. A phlegmatic little man,
not greatly interested in what was happen-
ing immediately around him, he could easily
whip himself into a spurious excitement
over the last grave threat to the empire,
or the sinister foreign influences that
prompted strikes and discontent in the
towns. Tied to the store, day in and day
out, he prided himself on living in a large
world. Hadn’t he been a sailor once, and
seen strange ports over the sides of Ger-
man tramps and Yankee oil-boats? Wasn’t
he tally-clerk once for nearly a year at the
docks in Rio? And who knew better than
he what a dangerous scum would come
to the top in all countries unless working
men were kept down with an iron hand?
His early training had given him a sense of
order and discipline, and if one of the Wie-
gert children sidled in for a chocolate bar
while he was reading his paper at the door,
he always roared in a voice that shook the
counter:
“Mina! Shop!”
If that brought no response he dropped
his paper and sprang up.
“Hey, Mina! Is it you gone deaf alto-
gedder?”
And Mina would come padding in, brush-
ing a strand of dark hair out of her eyes
and leaving a floury mark on her forehead.
A big, vacant-eyed woman, shrewder at
business than she looked, she was more than
a wife to Kunkel; and the only thing wrong
with her was some obscure complaint that
called for an operation. For a long while
she had hidden it dutifully, but lately it had
been troubling her and she had been
forced to go to town and see a doctor.
What she had told Kunkel on her return
had disturbed him almost as much as a
rising in Egypt, and for awhile he had gone
about in a bright-eyed stupor, forgetting
his paper and staring unseeingly at the
half-opened cases in the lumber-room or
the sea-birds hovering over the sandbank.
How could he get along without Mina?
Even if it were only for a month! It was
not till he thought of Hughie Callaway
that he recovered his normal poise again.
Hughie was a bright boy, who would soon
learn all he needed to know, and would
have no poisonous trade-union ideas in his
head about hours or wages. He could attach
him casually to the place at first by giving
him the job of driving round with the
orders—a job he had had to do himself
since the last boy left.
It was thus that Hughie got his chance.
Encouraged by Lew he had overborne his
mother, though she had given in with bad
grace.
“All right; go your own way,” she said,
“but it’s a blind alley, Hughie. Once
you start at odd jobs like that you keep at
them to the end of your days, like a bullock
broken to the yoke. I’ve seen it with more
young fellows than enough. And I’d have
worked my fingers to the bone if it had
meant you being taught a proper trade.”
Hughie had tried to take the edge off
her disappointment.
“Don’t worry, Mum; I can always pull
out when I’ve had enough. And old Kunkel
says he’ll teach me all I want to know
about running the store.”
“Kunkel!” Anna exploded. “What does
that old parrot know about running a store
or anything else on God’s earth! All his
life he’s been repeating the last thing that
was put into his head.”
She was angry, but not with Hughie. It
was Lew, she felt, who had betrayed her.
He had let that McNair girl turn his
thoughts away from his own family and
refused to carry out the bargain they had
tacitly made to spare nothing in giving the
younger children a good start in the world.
Her relations with Lew were confused, and
shot with obscure emotions. Since Bob had
gone he had seemed less a son to her than
the natural head of the house, someone she
could draw strength from in her weaker
moments, and her mind rankled with a sour
sense of being deserted when she thought of
his silent stubbornness about Hughie. She
would never have the same confidence in
him again. Never!
But Hughie had only the vaguest percep-
tion of the battle that had gone on over
his head. With what buoyancy he sprang
out of bed in the mornings now and lit the
fire in the stove! How eagerly he leapt the
paling fence after breakfast, and made his
way over the strip of cropped grass to the
store up the road! Driving round with the
orders was work he would have been glad to
do for nothing, so pleasant and important
it seemed to him. Then there was the
interest he felt in Kunkel himself. Ever
since he had started to help with the store
accounts a friendship had been developing
between them, and sitting in the living-
room at the back they discussed aeroplane
flights, the latest inventions in television
and poison gas, the chances of civilisation
being wiped out in the next great war, and
anything else that cropped up. Hughie was
a good listener, and was almost as fas-
cinated as Kunkel himself by the sort of
world revealed in the daily papers. He
flattered the old man’s vanity by the open-
mouthed absorption with which he hung on
some long-winded account of a strike in
Barcelona or the pedigree of a royal bride.
“T’at Hughie got a head on him,” Kunkel
told people admiringly. “More brains than
all the rest of the family put togedder. Take
my word, he’s a boy you can make someding
oud of. T’at oder fellow Lew, now —he
always keep his mout’ and his ears shut
tight, and noding get in or out.”
For Lew had never shown much respect
for Kunkel. He secretly thought him an
old windbag, and when the storekeeper was
holding forth to the other men on Saturday
evenings, Lew usually slipped out to the
back to have a word with Mina, Or to cut
her some wood for the morning. He was
more at home with Mina in the kitchen
than with the rest of the crowd; he was
even more interested in her lumbering talk
about the best way to cook fish or about
the farm she had grown up on as a girl.
Yet what a centre of life the store was on
Saturday evenings, or on the nights when
the boat came in! As soon as the lamps
were lit there drifted in the two Wiegerts,
“Mina... .Shop!”
Dave and Albert—Dave, long and lean, with
a nose that dominated the lower part of his
face, and Albert, thickset and podgy, shape-
less of feature but twinkling-eyed. They
had come to the Passage some years before,
and gradually established themselves as
fishermen, building their huts a stone’s-
throw away from the Callaways and extend-
ing sheds and outhouses around them as a
crab flings up sand. Corny Lait, who lived
on the old-age pension, wandered up with
a swarm of dogs from his lair by the salt-
water creek, and sometimes Andy Williams
plodded down from the lighthouse on the
hill. Then there was Lamont, the oyster-
man, who lived by himself among the tea-
tree a mile down the water-front and
had connections with the Greek fish-dealers
in town; McEvoy, the captain of
Uncle Toby’s boat, and Logan, the deck-
hand; sometimes a few nameless men from
a camp by the saltwater creek or a sailing-
boat in the Passage. They lounged on
forms by the wall, smoked their pipes, and
talked about catches and the current price
of fish. It was the popular meeting-place,
for the pub was over three miles away,
beyond the lighthouse hill.
To Hughie it was a great thing to have
gained a footing in that world of men. He
hung about unobtrusively in the shadows,
serving them with soft drinks or turning
on the gramophone when they wanted it.
And he always had a shy grin for their
pleasantries:
“Well, Hughie, going to give up the water
and become a land-crab?”
“Thought you’d be setting up in business
of your own, Hughie, building them canoes.”
“Strike me blind, Hughie, anyone’d think
you’d lived in a store all your days to see
the way you handle brown paper and
string.”
Decidedly he was a boy who was going to
be worth something to Kunkel! As the days
passed the old man noticed how quick
Hughie was in serving anyone who came
into the store, divining by instinct where
things had been put on the shelves and
never needing to ask the price of an article.
There was a brightness in his manner, too,
that made people glad to have him attend
on them; the likeable grin that so readily
lit up his freckled face was contagious and
spread good humor all around. Even Corny
Laity who never came into the store during
daytime except to growl about mould on
his tobacco or weevils in his flour, had
the sting taken out-of his complaints by
the sympathy with which Hughie listened
to them. What was the use of damning
Kunkel’s rotten goods and threatening to
get all his supplies up by boat when the old
man’s head was buried in his paper and the
boy’s eyes were fixed on him patiently,
waiting for the storm to blow over!
“Great slut that of yours, Corny,” Hughie
would say. “I wouldn’t mind having one
like her.”
“Neither would a lot of people,” was
Comy’s retort. “They haven’t seen the
money that’d buy her, though It’s not
dogs I’m talking about now, though, it’s
the sort of muck I get saddled with if I
don’t cany me own stuff home.”
But he always shambled back to his hut
by the saltwater creek in a good humor,
mollified by the way Hughie had come
round the counter to fondle the head of the
tan slut.
It was only in preparation for Mina’s
absence that Hughie was encouraged to
serve in the store. His real work was to go
for orders on one day and deliver them on
the next; and there was something in this
leisurely job that
was peculiarly
satisfying to him.
As he jogged
along the sandy
road in the creak-
ing cart he could
get a vision of all
that was happen-
ing in the settle-
ment, and let the
desultory life flow
pleasantly through
his mind. It was a mile up the long hill to
the lighthouse, and from there one’s eyes
flashed down the sloping tea-tree ridge to
the ocean; the white strip of bathing-beach,
the foam breaking far out on the Dolomite
reef where the Comet had been wrecked
years before, the sweeping curve of Rath-
bone Island. They were building a new cot-
tage on the rise above the bathing-box; he
could see the uprights over the edge of the
ridge, like a bunch of leafless saplings after
a fire. And the McNairs hadn’t gone yet!
The green shutters of the bungalow were
still drawn back, and there were bathing-
togs hanging over the rails. He would have
to call there, though he was shy of Clem:
there was something about her that brought
back his stutter. She had come into the
store once or twice, looking smart in her
brown tunic and bloomers, and had embar-
rassed him by the sober way she treated
him as a grown-up man. It looked as
though she and Lew had some joke together
about his new job!
While he stood at the lighthouse-keeper’s
door with his load of sugar, soap and flour,
he gazed down the hill with lively eyes at
the men Carting timber, and thought what
a fine thing it was to be working like other
men.
“Hullo, Hughie! Not left school for
good, have you?”
“Too right. I’d have left long ago if
they’d let me. There’s been no one my size
going there for donkeys’ years.”
And as he rattled past the small, un-
painted school, from which came a monot-
onous droning of tables, he looked down on
it with a slightly contemptuous patronage.
The handful of children on the verandah,
Dot among them, stared up at him admir-
ingly, but hardly dared to make a sign of
recognition. He was on a different plane
from them now! The old school was the
dusty and discarded chrysalis from which
he had emerged into the sun. He was proud
of the way he could stand up in the cart
when it was moving, of the trousers that
covered his brown, lean legs, of the nods
fully-grown men gave him as he passed.
And already he had begun to wonder why
old Kunkel didn’t save time by having a
small motor-truck to take the orders round
and cart stores up from the boat.
“Wouldn’t take more than a morning with
a truck to do the whole week’s work,” he
told himself. “And there’s no one here’d
bother whether. I had a license or not.”
Even as a youngster his mind had been
occupied with creating order in the small
world around him, and now he was ready
to use this capacity for the benefit of the
store. Old Kunkel, he suspected, was a bit
of a muddler, and really needed someone
to put things straight. Vague but not
unattainable ambitions were beginning to
stir in him as he pottered about in the cart,
noticing everything, from the slow progress
in building Ramsay’s bakery to the way
Reardon’s truck stood idle in front of the
pub for days at a time. What was it his
mother had said about this job leading into
a blind alley? Well, he would prove she
was wrong! He didn’t need to leave home
and go through more schooling before he
could show what was in him: there were
plenty chances here for anyone who would
take them!
CHAPTER VII.
The Mullet.
The mullet were coming in. For days a
howling gale had been blowing from the
south, with a grey blanket of a sky and
heavy masses of darker cloud sweeping up
to break in downpours of cold rain. It was
a rain that was fierce and tumultuous. It
blotted out the sandbanks and the low
hummocks of Rathbone Island, while on
the main beach it limited the horizon to
the foamy crests of the huge combers that
came rolling in so closely behind one an-
other that there was nothing visible but a
mass of dirty white. The tea-tree gullies
poured their floods of stained water out
upon the beach, which was flattened down
and strewn with mullet-weed, driftwood,
dead fish with their eyes picked out, and
islands of quaking yellowish foam. In that
sudden convulsion it seemed as if the sea
had vomited up most of its refuse. Even
with the salty winds blowing spray far
inland, there was a sourish smell in the air,
and the ruffled sea-birds, tossed from one
gust to another, had the look of crows.
But now the storm was well over, the
sun putting color into the sea again, clouds
turning white. Lew and the other fishermen,
wandering about the sandy cliffs in oilskins,
kept their eyes fixed on a spot in the south-
east where the sea-birds were hovering in
wide circles, dropping to the surface now
and again and fluttering up with wet wings.
The mullet were moving with the slowness
of an iceberg up the coast. Days before the
storm the scouts had come ahead poking
into creeks and passages and exploring the
spawning-grounds, and now the main army
was approaching, packed in close formation,
with the birds circling overhead, and the
sharks moving on the outskirts in hordes,
glutting themselves on the helpless mass.
It was a time the fishermen looked for-
ward to as a recompense for the. lean
months. Yearly, as the winter set in, there
was this migration of the mullet to bring
them full nets and easy money. They
came from some spot out at sea and moved
in slow progress northward, shoals of young
fish coming down to meet them from all
the creeks and rivers, shoals of others
moving off to spawn in the quiet
reaches. Yet there was something exasper-
ating in their deliberation as they hung
about any particular spot. An almost
stationary mass, they lay packed in the
deep water, troubling the surface with
their silvery leaping, driving the birds
to a frenzy of wild screaming; but would
they come in to where a man could shoot
a net around them? That was the ques-
tion that teased the fishermen’s minds each
year as they waited. Every comber that
rose in a green curve showed thousands in
the moment before it broke, their outlines
as clear as if seen through the glass of an
aquarium. It seemed as if they would be.
tossed up, gaping and goggle-eyed, on the
beach. But no! There they were in the
next wave, still and flattened against the
transparent, greenish curve. Meanwhile
in the deep water, far out, the sharks tacked
to and fro like silent sheep-dogs, the black
(Continued on next page.)


THE GOSSARD LINE of BEAUTY
• "L
rs*F, "
■
#
V
■
mm
■HH
. I
■
■
11 mm
msm
A
Model 708 shown above is a front-lacing Gossard of
unusual ability. Lightly boned, it extends above the
waistline and shows adequate length over the thighs.
Into a Gossard Jl '
and Your Figure Worries
Are Over...lnstantly!
A Gossard foundation smooths away instantly those
extra pounds of avoirdupois! Instantly your figure
is re-proportioned into lines of slenderized grace!
No corsets fit quite like Gossards. No corsets have
quite the demand that Gossards have. And no corset
will do quite as well—-or quite so easily what a
Gossard will do for your figure. Ask to see the new
Solitaires, step-ins, front-lacing corsets, girdles,
combinations and brassieres. They come in various
price ranges to meet every purse.
THE CANADIAN H. W. GOSSARD CO., Limited
114-120 Castlereagh Street .. Sydney, N. S. W.
MADE
WITHIN
THE
empire
K-AUST-lOD
triangles of their fins occasionally showing
above the surface.
Lew, muffled up to the eyes in oilskins,
paced the sandy cliff restlessly as the tides
changed, watching for the first signs of the
shoal going across the bar. It was desper-
ately important to him that this should
be a good year. He had invested his small
savings in a new net and a couple of boats,
and had taken the Wiegerts, Corny Lait
and Lamont, the oysterman, into partnership
with him on a share basis. Then he had
brought Tom Rahilly down from the hotel
to help him on a fixed wage. If the fishing
were good he stood to make a decent
profit that would tide the family over the
next summer: if it were bad, there was
nothing for it but that Marnie should come
home and find a job in service somewhere.
They had been inquiring about her at the
hotel, but the very thought of her scrubbing
floors or serving behind the bar put a dark-
ness into her mother’s eyes. And Hughie
wasn’t able to pay more than a few shil-
lings yet for his board.
“Well, Tom, what’s it to be?” he asked
Rahilly, as they squatted behind a clump
of she-oak, shielding their lit pipes from the
wind.
Rahilly let the smoke trickle from the
corner of his mouth.
“Good going; don’t you worry. In a few
days we’ll be wanting a couple of draught-
horses to haul on the nets. The scouts had
a good spin, so they’ll come in all right.’
“Yes, the scouts had a good spin. Not as
much as an oar put in the water while they
were here.”
He had faith in Rahilly’s assurances, for
there was nothing Tom couldn’t divine
about the ways and intentions of fish. Per-
haps it was because he was so much like
a fish himself, with his round, pale eyes that
stood out from his head, and his mouth
that fell open above a formless chin. A
queer-looking fellow, old Tom, not very
prepossessing at first sight, but companion-
able and friendly! He had knocked about
the lower reaches of the Passage since he
was a boy, picking up a living in much the
same way as a sea-hawk, and finally attach-
ing himself loosely to the Callaways. Some-
times he worked on Tony’s boat, sometimes
helped with the fishing, and sometimes went
crabbing by himself among the little man-
grove islands. Outside that stretch of
sandy shore and partly landlocked water
the world hardly existed for him, but every-
thing he had seen he remembered, and he
could speculate for hours on how long Rath-
bone Island had been divided from the
mainland, and what sort c>f life had gone
on there among the blacks a hundred years
before.
Yet it was only in winter that he really
came alive. Summer was a dream to him,
and he drifted about the yard of the hotel
in his rusty jumper and bare feet, never
more than half-drunk, and yet never sober
enough for anything but, cutting firewood
and cleaning the car.
“I’ve watched ’em for years,” he said,
“and every time-the scouts were monkeyed
with they’ve sheered off. Funny how the
blasted things can pass the word along,
’ but they do as sure as God made little
apples! This time they’ll come in all right,
though Damn it, if they’re not begin-
ning to do it now! ”
He sprang up and pointed through the
thickening dusk to where the mullet were
moving over the bar, leaping as though
from pressure behind, slowly making pro-
gress against the outgoing current. The
Wiegerts and Corny Lait had seen them,
too, and were hurrying to the boats moored
on the inside of the Passage, their nets
piled high in the stern.
“Spot ’em, Lew?” they called back.
“They’re moving in!”
“More’n a few cases in this lot!”
“Come on, boys! Now the fun begins.”
A boyish excitement spread through
them, even though they had watched the
same spectacle every winter for years,
and knew it meant endless work for them
and nights of broken sleep. The mullet were
moving ini They packed the narrow bar
and spread through the smooth water around
the sandbanks, sluggish with the weight of
roe, a mindless mass of spawning life. In
the shallows they came to rest, their noses
to the current, and their tails faintly vibrat-
ing as though with the last flicker of
exhausted energy.
During the, days that followed there was
little chance of a spell for anyone. Time
was not reckoned by the sun but by the
tides, and when the full flood was on the
sandbanks the boats were out, whether it
was noon or midnight. Every shooting of
the nets brought a heavy draught of fish,
and the men’s hands we're raw with hauling,
calloused though they had become with the
same work in previous winters; but there
was always a thrill of expectation when the
floats narrowed. Would their luck stick tb
them? Or had the fish been scared back to
join the huge shoal that was already moving-
north? They had not. They could be
seen lying in the clear water at mid-day,
their heads pointed to the current, their
tails flickering faintly, wrapped, apparently
in the profound ecstasy of immobility: they
curdled into a leaping mass of phosphores-
cence at night when the nets closed about
them. And behind this great shoal would
be other shoals, moving up the coast in slow
procession till the end of winter, the sharks
around them and the birds above.
Lew passed about the place in quiet con-
tentment, drying and mending nets, seeing
about cases, packing the fish in ice and
getting them off each morning in Reardon’s
truck. There was something about this
steady, unremitting work that satisfied the
senses, though a man had to take his sleep
at odd times and never got enough. He
enjoyed even the long waits for the night
tides on the sandbanks, with Rahilly curled
up at the other end of the boat, their
pipes lit and neither of them speaking
except when he had something to say. It
was good being with old Tom; they had
always got along well together! Some sort of
physical communion existed between them,
and they drew their thoughts from the
same current of life. When they talked it
was of the things around them —the way the
sandbanks shifted after every storm, the
habits of birds, the exact times when the
different fish appeared. Lying on the piled-
up nets they waited for the slack of the
tide, while overhead the late-going swans
clanked by in the dark, dropping their
metallic cries, and an occasional shark or
ray made a flurry among the small fish in
the still water.
Gradually it was being brought home to
Lew that life was less vivid and clearly
outlined since Clem had gone back to town.
He was interested and absorbed in his
work, but the edges of things were blurred
a little, and he lacked that sharp sense of
living with his full being that stimulated
him when he was seeing her every day.
Or perhaps it was only his conscious mind
that was dozing. There was a restlessness
about her, an exuberance, that made him
wake up and use his eyes and his brain.
Different from this comfortable but drowsy
companionship with old Tom! He had
memories of Clem scouring the sandy plain
in search of flowers she knew wouldn’t
be out for another two months, bending
with sudden excitement over a bush of
purple hovea that had bloomed early,
fingering the heath-leaved dillwynias,
screwing up her eyes as if she could see
the stretch of featureless shrubs and rushes
already shimmering with delicate shapes
and colors. Her intensity was contagious:
he was more aware of the world around
him when she was near. Growths on the
headland or in the bush behind became
separate and individual; colors he wouldn’t
have noticed stood out with distinctness;
he found himself watching the way a
rainbow-bird poised at the top of its curve
in the air, or the faint vibration in the
wings of a sea-bird as it hung in the wind.
Then there were the storjns of passion'
that swept over her. The day they had
come across Albert Wiegert with a shot
swan by the saltwater creek and he had
merely grinned at her protests, she had let
herself go in a storm of abuse that amazed
both him and Wiegert, flinging herself down
on the grass afterwards to recover and not
speaking again till they neared home. Lew
was slow-tempered and a little sullen him-
self ; he had never understood these ex-
plosive outbreaks; but they quickened his
powers of feeling. Clem, he told himself,
really cared for the things she went wild
over: it wasn’t just vamped-up sentiment.
And now she was gone, and there seemed
little likelihood of her coming back! The
land around the bungalow, perhaps the bun-
galow itself, had been sold to Osborne, and
a surveying party was already camped
there, dragging chains about and hacking
down the tea-tree and young wattles.
“You won’t know this place in a year’s
time,” one of them said. “There’ll be cot-
tages shooting up like mushrooms after a
March storm.”
The prospect of that didn’t concern Lew
one way or the other; such changes would
bring no more fish to his net; but the
thought of Clem not coming back gave
a slight bleakness to the outlook. Uncon-
sciously he had counted on her being some-
where on the skyline whenever he looked
ahead at all.
“If I make a muck of my life I’ll come
back here and look for a job at the nets,”
she used to say. “Would you take me on
as an offsider, Lew?”
But he hadn’t answered her very seri-
ously. Girls like Clem talked in the air
sometimes! And she didn’t know much
about the sort of rough-and-tumble life he
and his family lived, in spite of the solemn
way she spoke about wanting to earn a
living with her hands. He couldn’t see
her washing salt-stiffened dungarees like his
mother, or squatting on the stones of the
breakwater cleaning fish with the Wiegert
women.
(To be continued next week.)
Silhouette.
The air is deadly still,
No tiniest wind astir!
Beyond the rigid fir.
Beyond the farthest hill,
Amongst the fading wisps of cloud
That wind about it, like a shroud,
There comes, at last, a single star —
The beacon on the bar.
Still fainter grows the light,
The gums are fast asleep,
Mysterious shadows creep,
The birds have sung “Good night!”
And all is silence, peace and rest
As night descends on Nature’s breast.
Thank God, who blots out ev’ry star,
So that we see them not by day,
But sends them when the sun’s away,
Like old friends from afar.
And.... for the inky fret
Against the westward sky
That charms the weary eye,
Thank Doctor Silhouette!
S.A.
G. H. SOUTER.


You’ll Need One Soon!
THE
“STANLEY”
Hot Water Bottle
Made of aluminium, with
screw top and rubber
washer —it will not leak.
Far superior to the ordi-
nary rubber variety, as it
retains the heat for a long
time. Flat and round in
shape. Supplied with
blue flannel jacket.
Pricej
each.
PIKE BROTHERS
T TTIXTrrTPT'*
LIMITED
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY—Price 3d.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
Tried 6 Proved
For more than 136 years public
opinion has endorsed the value of
Rowland’s Macassar Oil as a means
of keeping the hair in perfect con-
dition and preventing thin or grey-
hair.
In bottles, of
C h e m i sts,
Stores and
Hair dressers.
Red for dark
hair; golden
for fair or
grey hair.
[anil’s
Macassar OH
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.1.,
ENGLAND. c.t.f.67
AS WE SAID BEFORE
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
An Auckland (M.L.) surprise-party was
lately struck by a serious disaster. It was
a rather swell party, and it brought along,
besides the provisions, silver spoons and cut-
lery for a party of 30, and sundry articles
of plate. It was observed that the people
on whom the party irrupted didn’t, look
happy—that is to say, they looked about as
joyful as a man does when a beam falls on
his foot—but their gloomy aspect was set
down to astonishment and hidden gratifica-
tion. The visitors had a good time, as
was evidenced by the jam-marks on the piano
and the piece of ham-fat that somehow got
on some pale-blue silk hangings, but when
they packed up to go, a silent, seedy man
came out from a hiding place somewhere and
laid two dirty hands on the plate. They
asked him what he meant, and he replied
that he was the bailiff, and that his orders
were that nothing was to go out of the
house. And he stood his ground so well that
nothing of any value did go out of the house;
the surprise-party left 32 silver spoons
behind it, and forks and other things to
match, and went away disconsolate. It had
even a difficulty to get back the clothes that
it had hung up in the hall, and had to assume
a martial attitude towards the bailiff before
it could recover its hat.
A torn and blighted thing that used to
be a bailiff is sitting up in a bed at a
southern hospital as a living commentary
on the emptiness of human dignity in general.
About a week ago this obnoxious ruin went
forth in all his glory to seize the goods of
a woman in a suburban cottage, and, like
the Assyrian in front of Jerusalem, he knew
not the fate that was in store for him. The
only occupant of the house was a lone
female who was cooking some dinner, and
when he explained that he had come to
remove all the property she fainted back-
wards into the hash without offering any
resistance. Then the minion of the law pro-
ceeded to load up a cart with the chairs and
tables, and the sewing-machine, and the
cradle and other things; and he had got
the house pretty nearly empty, and was just
throwing himself gleefully outside the door
with a carpet on his back when a large,
coarse man appeared at the back entrance.
He appears to have, been an excitable indi-
vidual, with no tendency to calm, dispas-
sionate analysis of character, for when he
found the house cleaned out and his wife
fainting in the hash, he instantly mobilised
himself and declared war. The scene which
followed is described as being of an invigor-
ating character. The bailiff heard something
like the rush of the
east wind behind
him and dropped
the carpet, and
then the two men
revolved in a cloud
of dust, and whirl-
ed round and
round in a rushing
cataract of legs
and hair and dam-
aged ears, and flew
about in a shape-
less pile of un-
hinged limbs and
ravening ferocity.
They were kicking
and cursing under
the grate one
moment, clawing on
top of the cartload
of furniture the
next. Then they
would be ! seen fall-
ing unexpectedly
out of a top win-
dow, and in, an-
other minute they
were pounding the
cellar to fragments
with their feet. It
was estimated by
competent wi t-
n esses that they
jumped over each
other eighteen hun-
dred times, and
they looked so num-
erous that the
officer on the beat
telegraphed for
assistance, stating
that fifty-two dan-
gerous maniacs
were at war in the
street. When at last
they were pulled
asunder it was
foun d that the
bailiff had nothing left on him but one boot,
and he had also swallowed a dishcloth and
was bruised and shattered all over, and
nearly half a hundredweight of coal had been
driven into his back. His antagonist had
his eye full of hash, and most of his hair
was gone, and all his clothes had vanished
except a sliirt-stud and a box of matches.
Then it was discovered that the bailiff had
seized the wrong woman’s chattels by mis-
take, and all the trouble might have been
averted if both parties had viewed the matter
on a philosophic basis instead of acting like
a sackful of wild cats. The chief offender
has since been fined one shilling, bailiffs being
comparatively cheap this year; and his vic-
tim is in the hospital where all sorts of
foreign bodies are being picked out of him
with a pair of tongs.
The man who makes a pile by his own
efforts has to be dreadfully mean to do it,
and his meanness sticks to him for ever after-
wards. Anyone who happens to drop into a
George-street (Sydney) restaurant, and
watch a certain enormously rich man who
lunches there every day, will presently realise
this. It is an eighteenpenny establishment,
and he goes there partly as a sacrifice to
appearances and partly because he owns the
premises ; but he would much rather patronise
the sixpenny place down at the Chinese end.
Therefore he tries to get level by eating
everything on the table, and there is a grieved
expression on his countenance when he has
to go away and leave something behind him.
He consumes all the sauce iu the bottle, and
all the green stuff in the dish, regularly.
He empties the little teapot that is brought
to him, and then he shakes it, and then he
takes the lid off and looks in to make sure
there is no fluid concealed in among the
leaves. He uses all the sugar in the basin,
and demolishes the butter, and generally he
gets right through the bread. Then he takes
up the milk-jug, glares into it with one eye,
and solemnly drinks up the contents. But
the thing that obviously preys on his mind
is the cruet. He can’t eat all the mustard,
yet it rends his vitals to leave it behind, and
he regards it with a wistful expression which
seems to imply that his great soul is strug-
gling with a sense of defeat. Last of all he
gathers up his ticket, heaves a heart-broken
sigh and goes away.
Some of the results of the Sydney baby-
sensation. The time was night, and the
place Redfern Station. Two women had
just arrived by train, and hailed “a ’ansom.”
One of them carried a parcel, badly disguised
in brown paper. The other took her seat and
said,_ in a low, mysterious whisper, “’And
it hin.” H'er companion handed it in, and
by the lamplight the cabman noticed two
small, white legs sticking out of the paper.
He got off his perch in short order. “Come
outer me bloomin’ keb,” he said ex-
citedly ; “come outer me bloomin’ keb.” They
came out and stood on the pavement witb
the brown-paper parcel, and the legs stick-
ing out of it as a silent evidence that a
tragedy had been perpetrated. “Perleece!”
said the cabby in a stentorian voice, and a
constable and a big crowd promptly loomed
up through the mist. Then the Jehu ex-
plained in a hoarse tone of voice that there
was a dead infant in that ’ere parcel, and
the officer seized the package with the strong
arm of the law and found that it contained
a sucking pig, the pale and chubby hams
of which had been mistaken for the deceased
cherub’s legs. The story closes with a cab-
man vanishing at a tremendous bat into the
darkness and two women and a pig blush-
ing on the pavement.
More of the humors of the influenza. In
one of the Maoriland cities a rash youth and
his girl were going to be married on the
7th of last month, but the male partner in
the crime took the disease, and the ceremony
was postponed till the 12th. He was better
by the 12th, but on the 11th the best man
collapsed, and out of respect for him the
wedding was put off till the 14th. In the
interval the bride’s mother broke down,
which led to an adjournment till the 20th,
and then the bride caught the distemper and
the date had to be shifted to the 23rd. On
the morning of the 22nd one of the brides-
maids lay up and the other collapsed that
same evening, but by this time the two
lovers were desperate, and they decided that
the marriage should come off regardless of
anybody. But early in the morning of the
wedding-day the parson took the disease
badly and went to bed, and the bridegroom’s
father got it also. Then the two went off
to the Registrar, with no bridesmaids or best
man or anything, and that public official
having escaped the malady up to date he
put them through. They went off to Mel-
bourne for the honeymoon, and the bride had
a relapse on the steamer, and the captain
had the influenza, also two of the deckhands,
and the stewardess, and it was an enjoyable
trip all round.
The language of the pure Australian is
one of his strong points. The large red
oaths which he scatters round in the inter-
vals of conversation and his ceaseless desire
to dash everything to eternal blazes and then
A GOOD OLD LOYALIST.
“Good gracious! What—what shocking
people those an-anarchists are! Enough
to make your hair stand on end.”
dash it back again are painfully exciting to
the stranger who is unacquainted with the
modes of expression used in these parts.
Some people, in fact, never do grow accus-
tomed to them. For instance, there was a
social event the other day up south ; a lucky
cattleman, who had invested his pile in the
purchase of an estate, invited all the elite
of the neighborhood to a grand entertain-
ment, and they assembled in evening-dress,
a number of ladies and a couple of priests
among the number. And when one of the
spiritual lanterns had said grace and the
host grasped the soup-ladle and said cheer-
fully, “Now, boys, which of you adjective
blanks is on for soup?” it was noticed that
quite a surprised expression flitted over
many faces; and when the owner of the
house remarked agreeably that he had a
dashed sheol of an anathematised cook, seven
ladies left without eating anything at all.
WAITING.
Sadly she rested her chin on the sill
Of the window and watched, as a maiden
may do,
For her lover. The sun dropped so soon
o’er the hill,
And a venturous star for a moment peeped
through
Ere upfolding the curtain —the curtain of
blue.
And she sighed, but a rosebud that clung to
the wall
Crept nearer and whispered the words in
her ear—
“ Though lovers forsake thee and fortunes
may fall.
Still beauty like thine should have nothing
to fear,
We will dream not of winter while spring-
time is here.”
But hark! Now the tremor has fled from
her lips,
And clouds disappear from a brow over-
cast —
’Tis the sound of a wheel, ’tis the crack of a
whip,
And she smiles once again, though her
heart flutters fast,
And she murmurs, “That beast of a
butcher at last!”
J. P. B.
THE CHEERFUL PUP
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
'Tis the bicycle man o'er hia broken wheel
That grieveth himself full sore.
For the joy of its newness his heart shall feel.
Alack and alas ! no more 1
When the bright sun tlppeth the hills with gold
That rider upriseth gay.
And with hat all be-ribboned, and heart that is
bold,
Pursueth his jaunty way.
He trazelh at folks in the lowly crowd
With a meat superior air,
He think' th ha 1 ha! and he smileth altud
as he maiheth the maiden fair.
Oh ! he masheth her much, in his nice new clothes,
Nor eeeth the cheerful pup.
Till he roots up the road with his proud, proud
nose,
While the little wheel tilteth up.
Ob, that you 1 hon his knees—though he doth not
pray!
Is a pitiful sight to see ;
For his pants in their utterest part give way.
V hi'e merrily laugheth she.
And that bicycle man in his heart doth feel
That the worst of unsanctilled jokes
Is the small dog that sniffeth anon at his wheel
Jdutgettetb mixed up in the spokes.
Sydney, April, 1887.
A. FRY.
IN THE MOONLIGHT.
“Come closer, lay your head upon my
shoulder —
There now, I feel the throbbing of your
heart.”
(The pretty creature did as Charley told her,
And put a lot of fervor in the part.)
“Ah ! Charley, but I don’t believe you mean
it;
You’ve said it to a dozen girls before.”
(The pale moon so many times has seen it,
And knows that he will see it many more.)
“Around my ivaist —don't be a little stupid—
I’ll go if you object to being squeezed.”
(The maiden had been badly hit by Cupid,
So placed her wreathing arms as Charley
pleased.) i r
“Upon my word! I call you very cheeky—
Indeed, I think I really ought to care.”
(The pale moon now felt a little sneaky,
As placidly he pried upon the pair.)
“I love you as I never dreamed of loving—
You’d make me, pet, as happy as a king.”
(The damsel’s nervous hand he was unglov-
ing,
Ex*e fixing up her finger with a ring.)
“Oh! no, the very thought your Birdie
frightens
I wouldn’t dare to run away from pa.”
(The pale moon is used to hearing wliite-’uns,
And knows what little fibbers Birdies arc.)
“My queen! you make me happiest of
mortals ;
Expect me at the dear old trysting place.”
(They entered, for a moment, Heaven’s
portals.
Close clinging in a passionate embrace).
“Good night! my own, my husband, till
to-morrow :
The witness shall be Agatha, of course.”
(The pale moon he winked his eye in sorrow,
And murmured, “Courtship, marriage, and
——divorce.”)
EDMUND FISTHER.
A FANCY.
When sunset halls are all aglow
With subtle tints divine,
Her face is near me, then I know
Her hands are clasped in mine. .
And all the warmth of sunlit seas,
The glow' of ardent skies,
Are cold beside the sympathies
That light her wondrous eyes.
A soothing peace her presence gives,
A radiant, tranquil rest;
She knows the deep turmoil that lives
Within my troubled breast.
She knows the wounds that bleed and smart,
Her touch, her kiss, is balm,
She whispers, “Oh, thou restless heart,
Be calm awhile, be calm!”
She soothes my brow, her gentle palms
Are soft upon my hair;
Oh then I stretch my wistful arms,
And—gather empty air.
QUEENSLAND.
K.


You are hereby requested to pity the
sorrows of a poor brass band, and remember
in your nocturnal and matin supplications
a banged conductor who has not yet got all
the stale egg-juice out of his hair, and give
casual mention in your prayers for rain to
a brass-drummer beset with the aroma of
cats gone bad, and dead goslings, and other-
mortal remains, combined with a flavor of
decayed onions and porter-house steak that
was not cooked in time. The aggregation of
amateur musicians to whom your attention
is directed are at present scenting the neigh-
borhood of Terang (Vic.). They organised
in that township a few weeks ago, and, not-
withstanding a strong demonstration of
popular disfavor, commenced performing on
the trombone and the flute and the French-
horn and the kettle-drum in a public place;
and the weird awfulness of their early
struggles with wind instruments moved the
residents to come out of their houses and
hoist over-ripe vegetables into the orchestra,
and the bassoon was muffled by the corpse
of a cat. and the cornet was gagged with 1 a
fat turnip, whilst the drummer was tem-
porarily disabled by a blow from a musty
cucumber. The momentary arrival of other
THE FIRST SYDNEY POLICEMAN.
(From a very, very old print.)
products of the soil propelled by the horny
hand of man compelled the band to retire to
a hall, but the tide of public wickedness
still pursued it, and night after night it
was beset with offensive elements which were
heaved through the windows and dropped
down the chimney, and every now and then
a body of men would burst into the building,
under the pressure of fictitious excitement,
and pour 27 buckets of drain-water over
the band and then haul it out bodily with
great enthusiasm, and throw it into a dam,
pretending that they were inspired with
a dread that the hall was in flames and the
orchestra uninsured. The Terang brass band
tired of these exhibitions of warm interest
at length—it found they militated seriously
against the effective rendering of operatic
pieces and symphonies and things, and finally
the orchestra decided by an overwhelming
majority to sojourn in the wilderness among
wild beasts when practising for the future.
Two Saturdays ago the pioneers of melody
took up their implements of war and marched
out into the leafy solitudes to wake the
welkin beyond the ken of the scoffer. It Vvas
afternoon, and the enthusiastic company
pitched on the side of a hill in the murmur-
ing wilds, and filled the forest with the
agonised cries of instruments that couldn’t
blend, and the triumphant thump of the big
drum that always came in late. The pier-
formers each played a lone hand, but they
were full of zeal, and zeal covers a multi-
tude of sins in a brass band. The cornet
was leading with a favoring gale, and the
trombone laboring heavily in the wake,
whilst the other instruments filled in the
intervals promiscuously, when suddenly a
heavy body carne violently down the steep
place and hit the band amidships. There
was a chaotic upheaval of battered instru-
ments, and amazed musicians, and dust, a
patter of falling fragments, the sound of
retreating feet, and the hurt and indignant
orchestra chafed its contusions, and, gazing
athwart the valley, saw a brindle bullock
Hying frantic and far, encircled by the big
drum and carrying a brass instrument on
either horn and the triangle dangling to its
tail. Then the band gathered up its wreck-
age and returned to Terang, where it now
lies prostrated by shock to the nervous sys-
tem, and inquires faintly who started that
blessed bull.
While the late Peter Lalor was Speaker of
the Victorian Assembly, Cooper, Chairman
of Committees, introduced his Sludge Bill,
for the construction of sludge-canals at
Creswick. Nimmo, the Scotch water-drinker,
now Commissioner for Public Works, stone-
walled the measure, and spoke for several
' hours on things in general, apropos of noth-
ing at all. One of the subjects taken up was
Robert Burns and the beauty of Scotch
scenery. Nimmo gave recitations from Burns
and Byron illustrative of the wild grandeur
of Caledonian mountains, when an honorable
member rose and thus meekly addressed the
chair: “Mr. Speaker,—Sir, I will take your
ruling whether the late Robert Burns and
Scottish landscape have anything to do with
sludge?” Then iNimmo and the objector re-
sumed their seats, and the House was hushed
to silence to hear the ruling of judgment.
“I apprehend,” said the hero of Eureka, “that
the honorable member for Emerald Hill is
attempting to show that the late Mr. Burns
could never have written those poems on the
beauty of Caledonian scenery if there had
been sludge-channels in Scotland.” Nimmo
resumed.
In the pawky ultra-Scotch town of Dune-
din (N.Z.) the other day, a “highly im-
proper” baby, aetat one month, whose un-
fortunate unmarried mother had died at the
Benevolent Institution, was gravely brought
before the Resident Magistrate’s Court and
formally charged “with ’avin’ no lawrful and
wisible means of s’port, yer washup.” “Do
you plead guilty or not guilty?” asked the
quaint forensic fossil on the bench. “Boo-
boo !” replied this improper baby—this hard-
ened vagrant of four weeks’ existence —this
montli-old menace to the safety of society—
this embryo prado—this Ned Kelly in
nubihus. The magistrate felt that the urchin
was getting between the wind and his
nobility, so he took it down a peg by asking
the wee delinquent if he knew where improper
babies went to when they died, whereupon
the enfant terrible pulled the strawberry-
blonde whiskers of the Milesian officer who
was holding him and defiantly banged the
bar of the “deep dark dock” w-ith his sucking
bottle. “You are evidently incorrigible,” quoth
the magistrate. “The sentence of the Court is
that you be confined for 13 years and 11
months at Caversham Industrial School, and
may 'Mr. Titchener have mercy on your soul
and make you a good Presbyterian.” This
well-timed exordium melted the criminal
heart of the defendant, who was conducted
from the court shrieking wildly.
Editor Hoolan, of the Etheridge (Q.)
“Miner,” seems to be an outspoken man and
gifted with a flow of unobtrusive frankness.
In the first issue of his sledgehammer print
he mentioned that he believed the district
was too infernally mean to support the
new venture, but anyhow he could cadge
enough money from Croydon to keep the
“Miner” alive. A malignant Brisbane jour-
nal came out with a fancy picture after
this, in which a shock-headed northern editor
was represented editing his paper in a tent
with only a pair of pants and a shirt on.
But even then Mr. Hoolan did not take
onence. He merely telegraphed back: “Too
much clothes. Editor goes naked always.”
One of the Sydney Sunday papers modestly
calls itself “The People’s Watchdog.” Its
hated rival hereupon remarks that the watch-
dog aforesaid has got the mange.
The latest idea in dress reform is that
male and female attire should be practically
assimilated. The coming female is to wear
her hair cut short, to clump about in laced
boots and carry a
stick, and to have
a small felt hat
planted on the back
of her head. Also,
sbn is to carry a
tail-coat, and, in
fact, the only dis-
tinguishing feature
about her costume
is to be an exceed-
ingly abbreviated
skirt descending
over a divided gar-
ment which will be
pants in all but
n a me. The in-
ventor of this cos-
tume made her
first appearance in
the streets of
Paris, and after
half an hour’s ex-
hibition she fled to
a place of safety
in a cab.
The pickled corpse-
business is one of
the gruesome in-
dustries of London,
the’corned deceased
hre'i'n.g imported
from the Continent
fSr purposes of dis-
section. Several
varieties of dead
are quoted in the
market, but the
late lamented who
comes from Bel-
gium fetches the
highest price. The
minimum figure for
a reasonably good
Belgian corpse is
£5, and as it is
purchased at Ant-
werp for £1 4s. the
profit is consider-
able. It is packed
in a galvanised-
iron case full of
brine, and the care
which is taken in
this department of
the work causes the
late lamented to
arrive in good
condition and command a ready sale.
The Dutch cadaver is in less demand owing to
unskilful stowage and consequent damage in
transmission, and an almost unsaleable
variety of not-lost-but-gone-before is put up in
Italy and is traded off at an alarming sacri-
fice. Defunct Germans are also good, but
they seldom arrive in a fresh state, and are
consequently viewed with suspicion by the
trade.
He was a sucking N.Z. pressman, full to
the: bung of a vivid martial ardor that drove
him to join the local Naval Brigade, and to
“hitch his slacks,” swear strange oaths, chaw
terbackker, darn his tarry-toplights, an I
write and hand to the comps, belligerent
p.ars. whenever the sub-editor had strolled
round the corner “to look at the time."
“Shiver my mizzen,” he said the other day,
“how in thunder d’ye spell trevalli? I
don’t mean the fish, but the bugle-call.”
“T-r-e-v-a-l-l-i,” replied the fellow who does
the missionary meetings. “The Trevalli
sounded at 6 a.m.,” was how the par.
appeared that afternoon in print, and a sub-
editor of an evening paper is walking about
in a busted boot, and there is an ex-reporter
who scorns to sit down even at his meals.
One day cross-examiner Purves was “turn-
ing inside out” a poor man who had already
undergone the same operation in a railway
smash and wanted compensation from the
Government. Amongst his other ailments he
said he had bad dreams. “Ah, you have bad
dreams? What are they like now? Do you
ever dream of me?” “I dreamt of you only
last night!” exclaimed the witness. “Oh
well, that couldn’t be an unpleasant dream,”
urged the genial one. “Oh, it was very bad!”
said the witness; “I haven’t got over it yet.”
“Come, tell us all about it,” urged Mr.
Purves. “Well, your Honor and gentlemen
of the jury,” said the witness with great
solemnity, and in a voice shaken with ner-
vous emotion, “I dreamt last night that the
learned counsel, Mr. Purves, came to my
bedside covered all over with scales and
having a pair of horns.” “You may go, sir,”
said Mr. Purves.
Mrs. St. Jones: “What is it this time,
Edwards?” Edwards: “Mrs. Kerr-Bris-
tow’s card, ma’am.” Mrs. St. Jones : “Did
she leave any message?” Edwards: “Yes,
ma’am; she said as how she was always find-
ing you out.” Mrs. St. Jones: “I hope you
replied gracefully. Edwards?” Edwards:
“Yes, ma’am; I said as how I wasn’t aware
that you’d done anything to be ashamed of,
ma’am.”
The peace that passeth all understanding
does not reign amidst the local dignitaries
of Westport (N.Z.) just now; instead a
homicidal feud fills the air, and the coun-
try is trodden hard by men going round
with axes and looking for gore. And this
is how it all came about. Admiral I airfax
and his squadron arrived at the coaly little
town, and while almost the entire population
mustered on the wharf and its approaches
to cheer for the Admiral, and the Queen, and
England, Home and Beauty, and goodness
knows what else besides, the Mayor, and
the Town Clerk, and the Foreman of W orks,
and the Inspector of Smells, the Dog-tax
Collector and all the other cog wheels of the
civic machine set off in a chartered steamer
to convoy the Admiral ashore. The crowd on
the wharf watched with breathless interest
the little craft reach the side of the giant
warship, then pause for a few minutes, and
then return shoreward. When the vessel had
approached within half a mile of the wharf
the excitement rose to fever heat; cheer after
cheer rent the air, and as nearer and nearer
drew the steamer, louder and louder pealed
HOW SHE LOOKED.
STOUT PARTY: “How do I look?”
FRIEND: “A tremendous swell.”
the acclamations. But presently a curious
feeling spread like magic through the crowd.
Those on the steamer did not respond to the
enthusiasm on the shore. What did it mean?
A second or two sufficed to show that either
the Admiral was below sea-sick or he was
not on board. And neither was; he. When
the Inspector of Smells and the other poten-
tates arrived at the man-o’-war they found, to
their horror and disgust, that the Harbor
Master and a few others connected with
the management of the port had quietly
kidnapped the Admiral, brought him ashore
in a harbor launch, landed the great sea-
king at a secluded part of the beach, and
conveyed him to the harbor offices, where
a select coterie were drinking champagne,
while the Mayor and the Dog-tax Collector
and the rest of the authorities were risking
their lives on the surface of the great deep.
The poor Admiral denies that he was aware
of the intended municipal demonstration in
his honor, but his Worship and the Inspector
of Smells are still sobbing down great hunks
of sorrow and wrath and decline to be
appeased, and the Dog-tax man is all broken
up, and is not expected to smile again.
Had the Kiama- Gliost-man dealt with the
N.S.W. political situation in the same style
and had appealed to an imaginary baby to
watch the Yellow Doggie
Help me roll my little loggie,
and so on, he could have thrown some valu-
able sidelights on the public affairs of this
colony. In metrical form he might have
told the visionary child how “Dear Cocky-
wocky Burnsy-Purnsy had made a little
roadsy-poadsy through the Hornsby-pornsby
estatesy-patesy—and how “Gingery-pingery
Clarkesy-parkesy had been liekty-pickty
for Orangey-porangey.”
IN RE GENT. ONE.
“When an attorney is called before the Full
Court to answer for any alleged misconduct, it is
; J not usual to publish his name until he is. found
; .guilty'; until then the matter appears in the papers
,as 'ln re a Gentleman, One of the Attorneys of the
• .Supreme Court,’ or, ‘ more shortly, “In re Gent.
One."
We see it each day in the paper,
And know that there’s mischief in store;
.That some unprofessional caper
Has landed a shark on the shore.
We know there'll be plenty of trouble
Before they get through with the fun,
Because he’s been coming the double
On clients, has Gentleman One.
Alas! for the gallant attorney,
Intent upon cutting a dash,
Sets.out on life’s perilous journey
With rather more cunning than cash.
And fortune at first is inviting—
He struts his brief hour in the sun —
But. lo! on the wall is the writing
Of Nemesis, Gentleman One.
For soqn he runs short of the dollars,
He fears he must go to the wall;
So Peter’s trust-money he collars
To pay off his creditor Paul;
Then robs right and left —for he goes it
In earnest when once he’s begun.
f Descensus Averni —he knows it;
It’s easy for Gentleman One.
The crash comes as sure as the seasons;
He loses his coin in a mine,
Or booming in land, or for reasons
Connected with women and wine;
Or maybe the cards or the horses
A. share of the damage have done.
No matter; the end of the course is
The same: “Re a Gentleman One.”
He struggles awhile to keep going,
To stave off detection and shame;
But creditors clamorous growing
Ere long put an end to the game.
At length the poor soldier of Satan
His course to a finish has run —
And just think of Windeyer waiting
To deal with “a Gentleman One!”
And some face it boldly, and brazen
The shame and the utter disgrace;
While others, more sensitive, hasten
Their names and their deeds to efface.
They snap the frail thread which the Furies
And Fates have so cruelly spun.
May the Great Final Judge and His juries
Have mercy on Gentleman One!
N.S.W.
BANJO.
MARTYRS TO THEIR LIVERS.
“Frederick Woods, a Melbourne tradesman, con-
victed of stealing sundry bottles of scent from a
chemist’s shop, has been discharged without an odor
on his character. In the first plaee, there wasn’t
the slightest reason why Frederick should pilfer
perfume, except that it came a good deal cheaper
that way. In the: second place, a number of J’s.P.
and mayors testified to prisoner’s perfect respect-
ability. In the third place, a doctor and a merchant
explained that Frederick was ‘a martyr to his liver,’
and therefore unaccountable for his conduct in seek-
ing to smell nice on easy terms.’’
Of the ills weak flesh is heir to
(As the medicoes will swear to)
There is nothing so distracting
As a liver seldom acting;
Let your home be ne’er so snuggish,
If that vital organ’s sluggish,
Why, you never can look cheerful,
And your temper’s something fearful.
You sit and eat your dinner
Like a miserable sinner,
Whilst the echo of your grumble
Is a deep eternal rumble,
And at intervals you shiver—
Wretched martyr to your liver!
’Tis the liver’s at the bottom
Of the horrors, when you’ve got ’em;
If your spirits are affected
And your countenance dejected,
’Tis the liver, never doubt it—
Yet one cannot do without it.
Should it happen to be active
Life is pleasant and attractive;
But, alas! and lack-a-daisy
When it drives a fellow crazy,
Thus impelling him to slaughter,
Or to jumping in the water!
All the corpses in our rivers
Have been martyrs to their livers.
You can take your oath a gent, is
What we call non compos mentis
When there’s evidence revealing
That he has a turn for stealing.
Quite insane is liis condition
If he fill a good position—
Though the Law will pass a curse on
Any seedy guilty person.
Thus a doctrine has arisen
Guarding wealthy folks from prison.
When a well-connected Tottie
Does a swindle she is “dotty,”
And the Judges cry “Forgive her—
Pretty martyr to her liver!”
THE POET PARKES—ONCE MORE!
Here are a few slabs from Sir Henry
Parkes’s “Baby Song”—a* dreadful exhibi-
tion of senility which appears in the cur-
rent number of the “Centennial Magazine”:
Baby, see the foolish doggie
Barking at the big-eyed froggie
In the rosebush, green and shady,
Do you see it, little lady?
Baby loves all gentle beasties
When they gather at their feasties
In the garden or the greenwood,
Loves them as a fairy-queen would.
How she loves the joyous wingies
Flitting through the leafy dingies,
Ever singing as in duty
To delight my little beauty!
Precious baby ! How we love her !
May the great good God above her
Never to the tempter yield her—
Ever bless her, ever shield her!


POPULAR COWBOY SADDLERY
T~...... V
V 2
m**
;
'
m
The
Texas Ranger
Cowboy Saddle
In nut-brown hide, double-
rigged, as illustarted,
£l3/18/6
Freight paid for cash with
order to any N.S.W. Rail-
way station.
Fancy Studded Cowboy Bridles, with
gold-color bit, with nickel horse-
head on cheeks. Two patterns,
72/6 and 76/- each.
Breastplates to Match . . 65/-, 75/-
Cowboy Spurs . . 7/6 to 35/- pair
Cowboy Chaps—
With fringe, 87/6; with conchas, 95/-
Cartridge Belts. Single row, 10/6; double, 20/-
Write for Catalogue of Texas and Australian
Saddlery, Whips, Harness, etc.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.
SADDLERS, 395 George Street, Sydney. Box 785 G.
d
There are seven
reasons why
I
IS GOOD FOR YOU
No, 2
FOR
NERVES
Guinness is good
for “ nerves.’* It
contains phos-
phates and other
valuable natural
constituents.
A glass of Guinness at dinner or
supper, or upon going to bed, is
wonderfully soothing and rebuilds
the nerves while you sleep*
Guinness is a delicious beverage,
preserving the natural virtues of the
hops, malt and yeast from which it
is brewed.
N.B. —One pint of Guinness Foreign Extra Stout has a malt
carbohydrate content equal to one and a half pints of pure dairv milk.
GF/A/7F.
The Supplanter.
W. D. FLANNERY TELLS HOW JAMES DICKSON'S PLOT WAS SPOILED
BY A SHARK.
THE Idler plied between Cairns and
Singapore. Cargo was her principal
business, for the limited passenger
accommodation generally suffered through
competition with the better-appointed tourist
lines from the southern States. At this
time—it was January, and the cyclone
season—she accommodated only the two men
who came aboard at Cairns.
John Rickson, of Rickson and Harford,
Eastern merchants, was making the trip
partly on business and partly because he
needed a holiday. Chance provided a com-
panion in James Dickson, a college acquain-
tance in Sydney thirty years before. Real
intimacy had not developed between them in
those days, for the sober, plodding Rickson
had little in common with the brilliant,
unstable Dickson. An error caused by the
similarity in names had established touch
between them, but neither had shown any
desire to pursue the acquaintanceship further.
In after years the two men had followed
diverging paths. To the steady plodder came
success, even if its attainment had meant
the sacrificing of much that most men hold
dear. For Rickson was a delicate man, happy
only in his work. He had never married, was
of retiring disposition, and unresponsive to
the call of society. Perhaps some subconscious
loneliness warmed him to Dickson when their
paths did eventually converge. At any rate,
Rickson asked no questions when he assisted
in digging the other man out of a filthy
Dago boarding-house in Babinda. tie took the
booze-sodden derelict to his own house, pro-
cured the best available medical advice, and,
though frequently discouraged in his altruism,
placed Dickson on his feet again within
six months. As the two men walked the
gangway at Cairns, it seemed a complete'
transformation. It would be difficult to visual-
ise in that neat, erect figure the half-mad
and wholly desperate specimen whom Rick-
son had found and' befriended less than a
year earlier. Dickson, dragged from the
gutters, accepted his position with an appro-
priate, if superficial, gratitude. In' reality
he loathed and despised his benefactor, hid-
ing his true thoughts at times with the
greatest difficulty.
In the interval preceding their departure
on the Idler, the two men had lived together.
Dickson had .learned much of the business
which was taking his companion abroad, and
more still of the internal workings of Rick-
son’s firm. For the re-made wastrel had in
him a magnetism and charm which is so
often characteristic of his type. Rickson,
probably the weaker man in many respects,
was attracted, and eventually dominated, by
the other’s personality. He talked, perhaps
too freely at times, but secretiveness is not
an easy matter when one is unsuspicious and
has an attentive listener. And, as he listened,
Dickson’s secret hate fed upon the thought
that he was indebted to the other for the
clothes he wore, the food he ate, everything.
Soon after the ship cleared port, one of his
periodic fits of black depression settled down
upon him. He sought his cabin alone, fear-
ing that some trifle might betray the secret
he fought to preserve. Although outwardly
self-possessed before the captain and officers,
he fully realised that his presence on board
was due to charity. Ostensibly travelling as
a friend, and business associate of the older
man, Dickson could only regard himself as
so much useless baggage, to be retained or
sacrificed at the whim of a lesser man.
This knowledge galled him unspeakably. He
spent long intervals brooding upon the
chances he had missed or thrown aside, and
often regaled himself with visions of what he
might yet accomplish were he in Rickson’s
position.
Here, then, was the real Dickson —a brood-
ing, vindictive product of morbidity and self-
pity. Much of whatever goodness he had
ever possessed had been stripped from him
in those low depths through which he had
passed. Now, his reason clouded, his capacity
for evil was greater than it had ever been.
At the first meal on board chance pro-
vided the opportunity he had long sought, in
a subconscious way. Rickson, who suffered
from deafness, was painfully sensitive about
it, and anxious to conceal the defect from
strangers. In addressing some trifling remark
to him, the captain unwittingly used the
other man’s name. Catching the sense of
what was said, but oblivious of the error in
names, Rickson replied l without any hesi-
tation. The significance of this flashed in
upon Dickson as he lay awake in his berth
that night. Fie knew that Rickson had never
been abroad before, and was personally
unknown to his firm’s correspondents in
Singapore. A plan took shape in his brain,
bold and audacious at first glance, but sim-
plicity itself in its salient features. Far
into that hot, sticky night he wooed the
idea, smoothing away the minor difficulties
until the thing stood stark and clear in his
imagination. If a change of identity could
be established, then this was his opportunity.
Circumstances favored the schemer. Be-
fore daybreak the glass fell rapidly. Sea-
men moved about the decks tightening things
up- as the Idler rolled heavily in a high
ground swell. Within an hour she ran full
tilt into a howling gale. For three days
Rickson groaned helplessly in his cabin,
whilst the other man, in borrowed oilskins,
moved about the ship as best he could,
fraternising with the officers and strengthen-
ing his position with every hour. Known
now by his borrowed name, it was an easy
matter to manipulate the luggage in support
of his deception. Outwardly solicitous and
compassionate, he spent much time with
Rickson, helping himself to private papers
and documents while the sufferer lay inert,
face to the partition of his berth. So far
the plan had progressed automatically. Dick-
son knew that it was all or nothing now.
To retrace his steps would be out of the
question.
On the fifth day out Rickson ventured on
deck with his companion. He was very
weak. After desultory conversation he fell
asleep in the fitful sunlight. Dickson eyed
him furtively, his mind clouded by anxiety
and doubt. Hickson’s recovery was fraught
with dire probabilities. Prompt action was
the only thing that might forestall exposure.
At dinner that evening Rickson sat apart.
Illness had played havoc with his indifferent
constitution, and the man looked ghastly.
Dickson cleverly steered the conversation
into safe channels, adroitly circumventing
all attempts to inveigle his invalid com-
panion into the captain’s dogmatic arguments.
A strong head wind sprang up with the
stars, and the Idler commenced to toss
badly again. Great waves of nausea swept
over Rickson immediately. He staggered
to his feet, almost falling. The captain
shook his head sympathetically. “Better get
him to bed again, sir,” he said to Dickson.
He’s still far from well. Come back again
later, if you like. I’ll be glad of your
company.”
It was black night as Dickson escorted
the other to his berth. The stars had gone,
and a solid wind howled over the ship. With
a tightening in his throat, he glanced at the
rising sea.
Having supervised Rickson’s retirement,
he returned to the saloon and spent an hour
with the officers. He seemed in excellent
spirits when he finally bade them good-
night ; but, in the privacy of his own berth,
his mood changed. Having disrobed and
switched off his light, he lay still in the
darkness. Keenly surveying his recent actions
in retrospect, he could see no flaw in his
conduct. The imposition was an accom-
plished fact with the ship’s company. Rick-
son’s wallet contained all the identification
that would be needed on landing. Dickson’s
practised versatility with a pen would be
useful in negotiating the letters of credit,
and the Wallet contained sufficient in actual
cash to give any man a reasonable start.
Singapore was; as good a place as any for
a person to set out with the intention of
losing himself. The Idler would probably
berth there within thirty-six hours.
Dickson decided that further procrastina-
tion would probably result in his return to;
the gutter whence he had been salvaged.
It took him a long time to decide, but
dread of exposure eventually forced him to
his feet. Creeping to his door, he peered
cautiously along tile passage. Nobody saw
him as he wormed his way into Rickson’s
cabin,, .for the passenger accommodation was
aft, and untenanted except for the berths
occupied by the two men. Nobody heard
anything. If Rickson cried out as the other
man’s powerful hands closed about his
throat, the sound was nothing in the rising
gale.
His purpose accomplished, Dickson worked
rapidly. Easing the body to the floor, he
wrapped it in its own dressing-jacket, and
removed every trace of the brief struggle.
Satisfied that the way was clear, he propped
the door with a chair, lifted the dead man,
and rapidly covered the short distance to the
stern-rail. Then, as the Idler rose to a wave,
Rickson s body slipped noiselessly away into
the darkness. On his return Dickson paused
at the dead man’s cabin. Changing the key
to the inside, he switched on Rickson’s light,
fixed the door so that it would soon work
loose in the ship’s motion, and gained his
own berth. He lay still, waiting.
On the following morning Dickson was
unrefreshed by sleep. He had assisted in
the frantic search which followed the dis-
covery of the open door and untenanted
cabin before daybreak. Ho was haggard
and pale when he met the captain on deck
again at dawn. In the saloon, later on, his
hand trembled visibly as he helped himself
to a stiff brandy and soda.
Rotten business, sir!” The captain
spoke feelingly. “A lost friend is a calamity
at any time. Accidents double the shock —
when they are accidents.”
«Tir^ cc^en t •” Dickson’s voice was harsh.
What in hell was it if not an accident?
Does a man deliberately jump overboard
hundreds of miles from land?”
“Not as a rule, I’ll admit. Still, sickness
plays up with some types. I’ve heard them
pray to die, and mean it. Your poor friend was
a very bad case. Can’t recall a worse one.”
Dickson did not fancy breakfast. After
several generous brandies he excused himself
and went on deck. There was a numbness
in his brain which worried him. Now that
his task was on the verge of completion, he
felt no elation. Instead, he could not reason
clearly, and an undefined sense of terror
enveloped his mind.
Hours later he was still staring vacantly
over the side when he first saw the shark.
Dickson had never seen a shark before. On
one occasion, years earlier, whilst he had
been watching some wharfies discharge a boat
at Townsville jetty, one of them had slipped
on a greasy plank and disappeared over-
board on the far side of the ship. Dickson
did not actually see anything, but he never
forgot the one frightful scream which rang
through the sweltering wharfslied that late
afternoon. Since then sharks had impressed
nis mind with a nameless horror. -
.J?? Watched the great fish cruise lazily
within fifty yards of the Idler. The erect
dorsal fin and an occasional patch of glis-
tening skin showed clearly above the water.
Ihe marauder appeared and disappeared at
intervals. Dickson found himself wishing it
would vanish altogether. It irritated him.
lo his overwrought mind the thing seemed
ami liar, as though that erect, unwavering
, n . d a counterpart hidden away in his
imagination. This impression persisted until
he decided that there was some unholy
resemblance between that dogged, determined
; i ™ te , a !' (1 hls Dtc companion. Ridiculous
though it was, he failed to dispel this illu-
sion. lo the vast amusement of some of the
crew he suddenly shouted at the shark, wav-
ing his arms furiously. Once, when it
drew still closer to the side, he spat vici-
ously and flung curses at it. Later he went
in to dinner, hoping that the thing would
disappear m the interval.
At the table his manner was strange. The
man was in the grip of some violent emotion.
(Continued on next page.)


3k
TNCHIsm
jr
s
SUYNLESS
4v
m
:<r
/4
50
«s
as
wyr
as
m
sss
Si
r
\t
ml
i
I vM
LCi]
ss
WIMCfftSTM
TRADE MARK
STAYNLESS
CENTER FIRE CARTRIDGES
WITH all the old-time Winchester accuracy and dependability
and our special non-corrosive priming mixture, which neither
rusts nor pits your barrel. . They save you the trouble of con*
stantly cleaning your barrel and long protect the shooting
qualities of your favorite guns.
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
: ■ ' NEW HAVEN, CONN.. U. S, A.
Always use Winchester Ammunition
Winchester Army—they are made {or each other Jr”'
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may ,be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
X
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY.
i® #s
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak without Notes, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
INEXPENSIVE BLADE RAZOR GUARDS
55 =^
With these Simple, nickelled guards the Plum or any other blade razor is converted
into a safety razor of the most efficient type. No ‘ dragging all the velvet
keenness of the hollow-ground blade is preserved. Sent post free to any address.
No. 1, adjustable to all sizes, 2/6. No. 2, for gin., tin., gin. blades, 2/-
PLUM RAZORS—Post free.
Neatly packed in satin-lined single or double cases.
Black Vulcanite Handle, each . • * J2/6
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle, each
R **' 7-Ty H sS^7 e ß«o'r, 'in' B5/-';' Xylo,' ' 100/-V iyory 140/-
Each Razor ready set for use and kept in order for two years fiee.
Other Specialities—Post Free.
PLUM Strops, each, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
Strop Dressing, per tube ...... !/•>
Shaving Cream, Giant Size, tube, 2/-
Shaving Tablet, Round, each ... 6d.
Witch Hazel, After-shave Liquid
Cream, bottle 2/-
Oil of Roses Hairdressing, bottle . 1/3
Crystallised Brilliantine, jar .... 1/3
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney
“Good country!” he was thinking. “Never
been overstocked. Used to cariy a sheep
to two acres when I came here first, and
does still.
He stared into a bright pool where the
boy he had known remained near and
living, so dim a veil separating them that
he could almost hear the sound of his voice.
But had he ever really known this son
whose gestures and movements were so
vivid in his mind? Different things had
surprised him in the boy—his loyalty to
the memory of his mother, his habit of
going off alone to brood by the creek, his
sudden decision to take up the law—arid
there were even more inexplicable things
to surprise him in the man. In all their
rides together they had never talked with
perfect freedom. He had always felt
tongue-tied when it came to discussing any-
thing with Boyd except, perhaps, the num-
ber of cattle the cow-paddock would hold,
or the way the chestnut stallion’s stock
could all gallop. There were a thousand
things he wanted to talk about, a thou-
sand questions he wanted to ask. He had
had no time
Riding across the grassed plains and over
the mulga ridges he knew that this road
he had so often travelled as a young man
led now to old age alone. Henceforward
there would be no dreams of the future—
only memories of the past. That was the
real break between youth and age, and
until now there had been the spirit of youth
in his heart.
A spruce, grey-bearded man in a white
motoring-coat, Cameron, of Magnus Downs,
was standing by his car at the side of the
road, lighting his pipe after an impromptu
lunch. McCurdie would have avoided him
if he could, but there was something in
Cameron’s quiet manner that persuaded him
to dismount and share the proffered tea
and sandwiches. They talked for a while,
with long silences between their sentences
in the way of old men who have only words
for everyday matters.
“You’ll be selling Abernethy now?” said
Cameron when they were parting.
“Don’t know,” said McCurdie. “Haven’t
thought about it. Ada’s already anchored
in town.”
“Farquhar and his brother would be glad
of the chance to mop it up,” said Cameron;
“that is, if they can get their bank to stand
behind them.”
“Quite likely. They’ve made offers for
it before now.”
Curiously enough the idea of Farquhar
obtaining possession of Abernethy did not
rouse any strong feeling in him. A week
ago it would have been an outrage, but
now he took it as a matter of course. Better
to cut himself off from the place at a
stroke than to-, have the wounds in his spirit
kept continually raw by reminders of his
shattered dreams.
He rode through the boundary gates in
the late afternoon and ambled quietly along
the track that led for three miles along
the creek-bed. From time to time he had
an illusion that he could see Boyd rising
from the spindly grass of the higher bank,
his gun balanced in his hands. The tall,
lean figure with the clean, bronzed features
and quiet eyes sometimes seemed so plain
to him that he felt a stoppage in the action
of his heart.
(To he concluded next week.)
The captain eyed him keenly. If grief was
the explanation, then his passenger was
giving it a new expression.
Matters reached a climax when Dickson
left the table abruptly in the middle, of a
blasphemous outburst. Within a few minutes
lie ‘passed without a word through the
saloon again, loading an automatic.
“What’s he up to now?” The skipper
turned to one of the officers who had just
come below. “That man acts like a lunatic.
Shock, I suppose. But why the revolver?”
“His nerves are playing up, sir. Said he
was going to shoot the shark. There’s been
an outsize one alongside all the morning.”
“Shoot it!” the captain grunted scorn-
fully. “Well, it might ease his mind to
try.” Then, seriously: “Keep an eye on
him, Mr. Carlowe. There’s a tiny suspicion
in my mind, though I can’t see how I can
act on that alone. He’s my guest, you see.
Must go carefully. Watch him, though,” lie
repeated as a shot sounded from the deck.
“I’ll get a wireless through to Singapore.
We’ll be there to-morrow at noon, and this
man is not fit to go about his business in
his present condition.”
Dickson was loosing shot after shot at
the elusive fin. There was a wildness in
his eye, and his mouth twitched as he aimed.
The automatic was hot, and his cartridges
seemed at last to take effeet, for the shark
turned with an angry swirl and swam out to
sea. Dickson’s instant relief was childish,
but a fear of its return held him on deck.
Hour after hour he paced the ship, eagerly
scanning the surrounding waters. He saw
nothing.
Having at length satisfied himself that
the menace had passed, he went below and
commenced packing. The evening meal
found him in complete possession of his
nerves again. Even the skipper’s pointed
reference to the shark episode failed to upset
him. ,
“Can’t stand those brutes,” he explained.
“There’s something uncanny in their damned
persistence. I’ve heard they follow boats
for days.” . .
“Yes.” The captain’s vague suspicion was
not allayed by this sudden change of manner.
“We’re used to them in these waters. They’re
always about, even when you can’t see them.
Good judgment, I should say. Things keep
dropping off the ship at sea, and the old shark
is no epicure. Anything will suit him, dead
or alive.”
Something in the tone upset Dickson. For
a single instant the eyes of the two men
met and held squarely. In the space of that
single heartbeat the captain drew hard on
his pipe and gripped the arms of his chair.
Long after Dickson had retired he sat there
pondering. Then scribbling out a second
message, he went up into the wireless room.
Brilliant sunshine flooded the cabin whep
Dickson awoke next morning. _ His last night,
on board had been a repetition of the pre-
ceding ones. Periods of anxiety arid trepi-
dation alternated with more tranquil inter-
vals, during which it became clear to him
that his own nerve was the only bar to suc-
cess now. Instinct told him that the captain
was no fool, but, in the absence of tangible
facts, could do nothing., Confidence predomi-
nating eventually, Dickson slept well into
the dawn.
Going to the cabin window he pulled
back the heavy glass, admitting air that was
cooling and sweet. He thrust out his head,
drew a deep breath, and scanned the -water
without misgiving. Then his breath burst
from him with a terrible imprecation. Just
abreast of him, its evil, piggish eye boring
into him, was the shark!
Dickson’s vitals turned to ice. All the
previous day’s horror flooded in upon him
a hundredfold as he staggered to bis berth
and collapsed weakly upon it. Then a red
curtain of madness descended _ upon him.
Shouting he rushed from the cabin, still clad
in his pyjamas.
At the end of the companion-way a: sea-
man sat splicing tackle, a long knife opened
at his side. Dickson caught the weapon in
his stride. In a desperate attempt to check
the madman, the other reeled back, one cheek
neatly opened from temple to chin. Then,
almost before the warning shout reached the
bridge, Dickson was twenty yards back in
the Idler’s wake. There he floated, watching
and waiting.
An officer stopped the engines and gave
orders to a boat’s crew. The captain,
glasses in hand, joined him a few seconds
later. Binoculars were centred on that lone
object in the near smoothness of the, steamer’s
track. The captain’s scrutiny covered a nar-
rowing circle.
“Hold that boat, men !” he commanded
heavily.
There were swift ripplings; and with one
awful cry Dickson disappeared as though
plucked under by an unseen hand.
Song.
My soul’s a ruined garden close,
And few flow T 'rs grow,
Pallid with orchid, fierce with rose,
Where dank winds blow r ,
Fierce with the dark red rose,
And sad with leaf;
That swirl in windy eddies,
Brown with grief.
My soul’s a ruined monolith,
That knows no blue.
The moon’s sad mysteries may drift
Behind the yew;
But the proud tumbled monolith
Can pierce no sky.
Poignant the perfume as the
Wind soughs by.
N.s.w.
ADRIAN SUMMERS.
Three Dawns Ago.
Three dawns ago I heard a lark,
But cannot find the place again
From which he rose. I did not mark
Him save by pleasure and by pain.
He made the world be reverent
By his rich rapture of ascent,
He filled and thrilled the bright, the dim,
To his serener self a thrall,
Glad, not that all looked up to him,
But glad that he looked out on all.
I cannot find the place again,
I did not mark it with my eye
But by my pleasure and my pain—
Pleasure, because the song was glad;
Pain, for it. breathed of English sky
And English earth, and left me sad.
I felt that sky, that earth belong
To me, and lost them with the song.
N.s.w.
SIRORN NICHOLAS.
Moonlight.
All the moon’s couriers descend
Highroads of jeopardy: a scabbard gleam
Affrights the bandit stars so that they lag
Crouching knife-handed s by the zenith crag,
Thwarted cut-throats; and in jewelled
shoon.
Gay apparelled, a rich prize,
Couriers of the moon
Descend the skies.
x.s.w.
ROBERT D. FIPZGERALD.
Invocation.
Hear us who on thee call,
And let thy soft rays fall
Upon this dark-beamed hall, these panels
brown,
That so a votress fair,
Caught in their argent snare,
May thy sweet praise declare —
O lovely moon, look down !
Fair hands, soft fingers white,
Would hymn thy beauty bright,
Waking unto delight the quiet town
With choral harmony,
Until the echoes die_
Ere the faint, fleeting sigh—
O lovely moon, look down !
That face, these upturned eyes
Are fairer than thy skies.
With heavenly harmonies her music crown!
For, O chaste Dian, see!
In fond tranquillity,
Thy soul’s self praiseth thee —
O lovely moon, look down!
MAORILANI).
MARY WALKER.


[ wmi*
M
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Eeatherston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
I Victorian Office—'“Chancery House/* 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
H South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
PROVED t
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE-
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE "
Established 185//,
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise you do not consider the
money involved as a speculation. You treat
this expenditure as an investment and expect
a reasonable return on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in the
affairs and development of Victoria. Its
present powerful position has been gained by
its literary worth, which appeals to an intelli-
gent public, and by its accurate and complete
news service. These factors, having a direct
bearing on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser looking
for the best INVESTMENT for his advertising
expenditure.
“THE AGE"
Audited Net Daily Circulation,
123,533.
Hates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements .
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may le
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price ljd.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
"The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
2<E> O’Connell Street, Sydney.
3f>s Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
THE
Illustrated Tasmanian
Mail
Published Wednesday. Price 6d.
A Bright, Interesting Weekly, con-
ducted on the most up-to-date lines,
and illustrated throughout.
It is an established favorite with
townsfolk and country folk also in
a jj. P arts Tasmania, and its
effectiveness as an advertising
medium is receiving ever-increasing
recognition.
It is undoubtedly
TASMANIA'S LEADING
WEEKLY
A J$ ate A P ook : Giving full particulars
of the Advertising Rates charged , will
be forwarded on application.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
... . Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart
_ _ • Sydney Office:
oa « Representative, Lisgar House
SO Carrington Street, Square, ’
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN"
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
*
ste« as *e s °^ S a ;a theJ-g£|
he « e s
> yetto w - tin !f4'ation. »
JuU constipa so ns
tinge in i C a f“astes .f l^ystem
hea lth and beauW u{fi nt
irregular « pfflM
remedy “ h as Beeeham
SerdSseto-ni^taudseey
disappear
*
Worth a Guinea a Box
“The Examiner”
Tasmania's Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
“Weekly Courier”
Wedneiday
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper.
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6,3, months from
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
ďsd
0*
e
„ se'>
(S® e


6D5 47
POWER
WIRS'
that far exceeds all demands
Power that exceeds all demands —
whether up steep grades, on bad roads
or in city traffic—is developed by the
Dodge Brothers Six high-compression
engine. The Dodge Brothers Six
exhibits remarkable all-round ability
everywhere—-acceleration that
sweeps you ahead quickly and effort-
lessly; response that takes alert
advantage of every opening in the
line ahead; vigor that pulls you out of
sand and mire; speed that takes you
places and brings you back easily and
smoothly. No matter where you
drive —-the plus power of the Dodge
Brothers Six will add abundantly to
your motoring enjoyment.
DODGE BROTHERS SIX
CHRYSLER MOTORS PRODUCT
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales Harden & Johnston, Ltd.. Sydney
Victoria . Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vie.) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland .... Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane and Townsville
South Australia .... Waymouth Motor Company, Ltd., Adelaide
Western Australia .... Winterbottom Motor Company, Ltd., Perth
Tasmania Co-operative Motors, Ltd., Hobart
