

r.fTTSiS
,M. .*
i* *
if"
C -
i j;i
rrH
Wl
W*
£3*
135171'
Bsl ■ •
i(PK\
MSS*
m
&
SW.!
JiM
1
m
\
m
ws
fl
!r!
tM|W
W*
IfrfH
X:^
1C!
ULtti
h«
V.fJ
m
vJ
sfc
i. i
.
m
Si'...
<■' v-
&
lil
r :
J.C.HUTTON PROPY UP MANUFACTURERS.
DIVISION OF UNITED PROVISIONS t T S.
' Look/for do two Blue stripes on de skitv"
PINEAPPLE
BACON, NAM, LARD
& SAUSAGES Superior Quality & Flafcr
Stockedbp all faCtassStores thmyhcutjlustmlia
The Bulletin
'\s, SfonfSi outdo to-dau
Vol. 51.—N0. 2618.
Wednesday, April 16, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, 3ST.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


\Y7RITE for the Library Catalogue and
” terms, and lists on all subjects, which
will be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Story Wr.tmjJ
This Book FREE to YOU!
i. SEND THIS COUPON
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 315
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
/•J
i
m
i m
THE SUPPER
Host Holbrook Says:
“ Good evening
merrie gentlemen !
Your supper awaits
you.
With the lobster,
salad and cheese I have
served my Worcester-
shire Sauce. Ah !it is
indeed a delicious
relish.”
m.
m
Quaint Hawaiian Ceremonials.
A Happy, Quaint, Care Free
Holiday is Yours at
HONOLULU - - HAWAII
The voyage to Hawaii by the Matson-Oceanic route —with calls at
Suva, Fiji, and Pago Pago, American Samoa —is a happy, care-free
cruise. Speed with comfort on gay friendly liners.
In Honolulu, Hawaii, you live through golden days of poetry and
romance. Witness strange native ceremonial gatherings, hula hula
dances, and Luaus (native feasts).
You revel in the warm, crystal clear waters of Waikiki Beach. You
dine deliciously on golden papaia (paw, paw) or pineapple, and
numerous other tropical fruits.
Sport of every description. Varied overnight inter-island cruises. Awe-
inspiring Kilauea Volcano. An ideal vacation land for play rest
thrilling new expedience. Go there and avoid the coming winter.
Special excursion fares now available, £75 first class return; £55 second class
return; available for 3 months. 33 days inclusive tour (covering all expenses),
£B5 first class, £65 second class.
S.S. SIERRA S.S. SONOMA S.S. VENTURA
SAILING EVERY THIRD SATURDAY FROM CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY
For SUVA, PAGO PAGO, HONOLULU and SAN FRANCISCO.
% Oceanic Steamship Co.
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
Local Mcllwraith, McEacharn Ltd."
Agents: Dalgety 8i Company Ltd.
Dalgety & Company Ltd.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Fremantle,
Albany.
Brisbane, and all Queensland Ports.
Write f or descriptive
folder, rr A Holiday
in Hawaii
Name
Address D-30
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain no cocaine or other poisonous drug. Suited for old and young. For Coughs,
Colds, Sore Throats, Uronchitis, Influenza.
S«IS4*®SII
«C!iT rowtßfUU
MID PICASMIT GCimiaot HU
wowmsenit kmo«h C
saw
HttoCAk •WTtl' ikXS
C. HUDSON^i
What the Medical World says: — The Lancet ;
“Proved to be as effective bactericidallv as is
creosote.” THIS REPORT FROM THE' “LAN-
CET” LABORATORY IS UNDOUBTED EVIDENCE
of the VALUE OF EUMENTHOL JUJUBES as an
ANTISEPTIC.
1/6 a Tin.
Sold at Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers; or
Post Free from the Sole Manufacturers —
Hudson’s Eumenthol Co. Ltd., Sydney,
on receipt or 1/0 in stamps of any Province
The Red Page
Australia’s Nondescript Traducers
It is a sign of weakness that we bother to
refute the attacks one or two writers of
war books have lately made on Australians.
If we have nondescript traducers, haven’t
we champions who far outweigh them, if
we do really need to be reassured about
ourselves? As civilians we have been
attacked, directly or by inference, by E.
W. Hornung and W. j. Locke in novels.
Galsworthy and Maeterlinck have dis-
paraged our country in “The Silver Spoon”
and “The Life of th 6 White Ant” respec-
tively. But against these we have had the
eulogies of Seymour IJbcks and Father
Martindale, and the great, the overwhelming,
tribute to this people and this country in
the Australian novels of D. H. Lawrence.
We seem to be far more sensitive to
attacks on the Australian soldier than to
onslaughts upon us as civilians. It is true
the A.I.F. was our star turn as a nation;
and we may for that reason be more defen-
sive of it. But the fact is that the tributes
of outsiders to the Australian fighting type
are so authoritative, dazzling, spontaneous
and unstinted that the reputation of the
Digger is for ever assured to history. Take
Masefield’s praise: “I saw them walking over
the ridges of Anzac like eagles freshly
bathed”; and “They died as they had lived
—owning no master.” In “Peter Jackson”
it is said of the Australians that' the only
thing Englishmen could teach them at war
was how to say “Oh, really!” Sir Philip
Gibbs gave them idealised praise. Sir lan
Hamilton’s manifold and considered tributes
to the Anzacs will live when all the war
novels Have been forgotten.
Mention of Sir lan Hamilton inevitably
suggests the paean of Compton Mackenzie
in “Gallipoli Memories”:—
Much has been written about the splendid appear-
ance of those Australian troops; btit a splendid
appearance seems to introduce somehow an atmo-
sphere of the parade ground. Such litheness and
powerful grace did not want the parade ground;
that was to take it from the jungle to the circus.
Their beauty, for it really was heroic, should have
been celebrated in hexameters, not headlines. As a
child I used to pore for hours over those illustrations
of Flaxman for Homer and Virgil which simulated
the effect of ancient pottery. There was not one of
those glorious young men I saw that day who might
not himself have been Ajax or Diomed, Hector or
Achilles. Their almost complete nudity, their tallness
and majestic simplicity of line, their rosebrown
flesh burnt by the sun and purged of all grossness
by the ordeal, through which they were passing—
all these united to create something as near to
absolute beauty as I shall hope ever to see ini this
world.
That is a tribute to Australian physique.
But the same volume shows, whenever the
author has occasion to mention Australians,
that, he harbors a profound admiration of
their character and point of view.
John Buchan, too, was enamored of the
Australian military type. And one of the
most wholehearted and penetrating esti-
mates was written by E. B. Osborn in the
“Morning Post” in 1917:
The other day I was walking and talking with a
famous art critic, who commented on the close
resemblance, in face and form, of the Australian
fighting men we met to certain Greek marbles. Of
course, the ancient Greeks were not, as most people
imagine, a race of elegant moralists, posing on
temple steps in carefully-draped white sheets. In
the mass they were bronzed, adventurous fellows,
excitable and not given to saluting, terribly fond
of fighting and drinking and robust flirtation, com-
bining a huge zest in joyous living with a streak
of pessimism, dour and. indefatigable in their sports,
such lovers of roving that the whole earth became
their tomb, eager for the news in hopes of discover-
ing something new, democrats among themselves
but an aristocracy' towards snuff-and-butter bar-
barians, always and altogether free from the slightest
taint of respectability.
With such “unsolicited testimonials” as
these, does John Monash need to defend
his brood? Or is it necessary for Tubby
Clayton (decent of him, of course) to rush
in and champion us?
It is highly significant that the Australians
are being attacked in retrospect. It is per-
haps the case that the authors of these attacks
at some time or other found themselves
confronted and disconcerted—and even
jealously irritated—by the Australian tre-
pidity, stoicism, imperturbable nonchalance,
sardonic humor and complete laconic
indifference in face of the dangers and
difficulties of war in the field. That trans-
forms these somewhat viperish and neurotic
attacks into inverted tributes. Between
tributes and attacks, the ledger is generously
balanced in our favor.
But even if no bouquet, had ever been
flung at us, is it necessary for us to bother
about isolated traducers? The English
nation receives with a tolerant smile any
criticism of the English character by a
Frenchman, an American or even an
Australian. You can’t make English-
men rise to this kind of thing. English-
men are on the surface diffident, but they
have a fundamental self-sufficiency which
nothing can disturb. Australians, on the
other hand, are superficially self-contained
but are startlingly sensitive to hostile
criticism. You could run down the British
Tommy in toto till all was blue, and the
English would be unmoved. But if an
Englishman so much as suggests that even
one isolated party of a dozen Australians
showed callousness or barbarity on one
occasion in the field, a thousand Australian
swords leap from their scabbards (so to
speak) to defend Australia’s honor. We are
as touchy as a lot of Capulets. It must
divert lookers-on hugely to find Australians
solemnly defending themselves against the
imagined attack of a Robert Graves or the
real attack of a Colonel Benstead.
HECTOR DINNING.
Exploring Our Literature
An Outline of Australian Literature, by
H. M. Green (Whitcombe and Tombs),
could be, and no doubt will be, easily
reviewed. It could be said that Mr. Green
is librarian at Sydney University and author
of two books of verse, one of them relating
a delightful love story and containing pas-
sages of great beauty. It could be pointed
out that Mr. Green has this to say of
Larson, that to say of Kendall, and so on.
Consideration due to the pioneer in any
field would be rightly given; and Mr. Green
could be sincerely congratulated upon facing
a patently difficult task and conscientiously
carrying it through. It could be added that
his book provides an unparalleled oppor-
tunity for anyone so inclined to get to
know what creative writing liad been done
in Australia and by whom. The re-
viewer might add that, though the title
suggests a monumental tome, the book is
in fact a mere pocket affair that can be read
without undue haste in a couple of hours.
A word for the neatness of the little volume,
another expressive of the debt owed to one
who had brought so much sympathy to the
task of advancing understanding and appre-
ciation of Australian literature, and the
reviewer could go home, quote Longfellow
on “Something attempted,” and so to bed.
The advantages of such a review would
be many. Everything that had been stated
would be true. Nobody’s feelings would be
hurt. The reviewer would not be a farthing
out of pocket in the coin of thought. And
when he died and went to his grave all
the writers would make a point
of stating that deceased was that rare crea-
ture, a critic who never said an unkind
word about anybody. Unfortunately, some
reviewers are born cranky; and it’s odds
on that one of these would arise and say
that, though everything his brothers had
said was true, there was more to be said;
that it was no part of a critic’s job to
care whether anybody’s feelings were hurt
or not; that ability and willingness to
spend a little coin of thought was a critic’s
only excuse for being alive, and that obituary
notices were invariably bad criticism, of
questionable comfort to the dead. Then
this creature, this snake in the grass, this
Wart upon the Fair Nose of Humanity,
would probably proceed in some such
fashion as this:—
Mr. Green’s is one of the most sympa-
thetic books that I have ever read. But
since when has “Sym-pathy, sym-pathy;
all I want is sym-path-y” been wailed by
Literature to the critics? It is a whine
peculiar to poetasters. and other purveyors
of piffle, and to hearken to it, as Mr.
Green does, is to put that alliterative brand
upon Australian writers of worth. It was
Cowper t the true Wart always likes to air
his learning ] who deplored
A fond attempt to give a deathless lot
To names ignoble, born to be forgot.
But [the Wart might add—though it
would be generous for him ] Cowper lived
in a barbarous age. In any case, he
was not speaking of Mr. Green’s book
and I am, so he and his unpleasantness can
be safely ignored. This, however, must be
said: half, at least, of Mr. Green’s person-
ages would be doubtful additions to a con-
temporary “Who’s Who.” There is no reason
why Mr. Green should not have mentioned
them, since the object is to be historical
first and critical afterwards; but.for the sake
of a good cguse he should have stripped
them ruthlessly from the pedestal. Mr.
Green calmly, aloofly and justly analyses
the work of Lawson, Kendall and others.
He sees their virtues, but is not blind
to their faults. On the whole, he does jus-
tice by the dead—while he remains in their
company. But over the page, without any
notification that Mr. Green has meanwhile
lowered his critical standard, we come upon
this:—
In 1920 a little booklet, “The Aspen Tree,” canu
as a new thing to readers of Australian verse, who
were surprised to hear that its author was a girl of
14, Winifred Maitland Shaw, born and living ir.
Singleton, New South Wales. Much of her reading-
had been in classical history and literature and she
was also fond of Percy’s “Reliques” ; her short lyrics,
light but exquisitely moulded, remind one of the
old English ballad and of the Greek anthology. A
couple of small volumes t published later do not
realise what had been hoped for from her, but
there is plenty of time.
[After which the Wart would probably look
doubtfully at his clock, but would proceed A
Mr. Green, too, appears to show a marked
partiality for professors. In the work of
Professor J. le Gay Brereton and Professor
L. H. Allen he can see nothing but good
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“Truth in Advertising:’ Truthful announcements are
a natural part of faithful trading at Anthony Horderns’,
© g*
jjji cSmm ft
<3
Uses
A
\/\/\
Everyone knows that to travel without a rug,
either by car, rail, boat or ’plane, is to go
without one of the most important travelling
requisites. People are also discovering that
even though a rug never travels it still is practi-
cally a necessity. As an extra bed covering, as
a colorful counterpane, as a pad for a camp
cot —these are merely a few of the many
“home” uses to which a rug may be put. In
our large stock we have almost every kind of
rug imaginable at prices equally as varied. We
recommend the ones listed below to your
attention.
df
All Pure Australian Wool Rugs
(Fringed Ends)
“The Epsom” a medium-weight rug of fleecy finish in a wide
range of fine colorings, with a pattern woven right through. Size,
54in. x 72in. Price, each .. v 17/6
“The Devon” is a large-size rug of medium weight, obtainable in an
extensive range of colors and designs. Pattern is woven through.
Size, 60in. x 80in. Prfce, each 19/6
“The Palace” is a heavyweight rug, obtainable in a splendid assort-
ment of attractive designs. This rug has attained wide popularity.
Size, 60in. x 72in. Price, each 21/-
“The Victor” is a heavyweight rug that may be depended upon to
give excellent service. The range of colors includes Browns, Fawns,
Blues and Greys. Size, 60in. x 72in. Price, each 22/6
“The Royal” is another heavyweight rug of excellent quality, and
which may be had in a range of colors similar to the “Palace.” It
is, however, larger, measuring 60in. x 80in. Price, each .... 25/-
“The Bowral” is an exceptionally beautiful rug, with smooth Cheviot
finish. Striking colors and designs in a wide range are among its
distinguishing features. Size, 60in. x 80in. Price, each .... 27/6
“The Davidson” is a Merino finish rug of medium weight, obtainable
in exquisite shades of Fawn, Grey and Brown. It is recommended
for wearing qualities. Size, 60in. x 80in. Price, each ~ 35/-
“The Bruce” is a reversible rug of heavyweight; ideal for car use.
We have dozens of the newest patterns and color effects from which
to select. Size, 60in. x 72in. Price, each 37/6
Pure Merino Wool Rugs
(Reversible)
“The Barton” is a lightweight rug of beautiful texture; an ideal rug
for ladies; handsome designs and colors. Size, 54in. x 64in. Price,
each 37 / 6
Many of these fine rugs have self backs; others are made with
faint check designs.
“The Renown” is a soft, fleecy finish rug of good quality, in a wide
range of wanted shades. Size, 60in. x 80in. Price, each .... 39/6
“The Henley” is a heavyweight rug that is obtainable in a wide
range of pleasing designs. Size, 60m. x 72in. Price, each .... 42/-
“The Albany” is a heavyweight rug in a wide range of beautiful
designs and color effects; splendid value; dozens of patterns from
which to select. Size, 60in. x 80in. Price, each 50/-
“The Victoria” is a heavyweight rug of exquisite texture, in which
all the new shades and designs are strikingly revealed. Size, 60in.
x 84in. Price, each 60/-
“The Excelsior” is a handsome rug of finest grade Merino wool. It
is of medium weight, and may be obtained in shades of Fawn and
Light Grey. This is a splendid rug for ladies’ use because of its
very soft and smooth finish. Size, 60in. x 84in. Price, each . . 65/-
“The Acme” is an ideal presentation rug—a wonderful advertisement
for Australian manufacture. Splendid colors and designs, and the
lovely soft finish of this medium-weight rug make it one of particular
appeal. Size, 60in. x 84in. Price, each 75/-
(Dept., Ground Floor. We pay carriage.)
It is not necessary to pay cash for these rugs. Select the one you want, make a deposit, and
complete payments as you find it convenient. When the rug is paid for, it will be delivered
to you in the usual way. Absolutely only the cash price is charged.
Anthony Horderns
(The Senior Store)
'Phone: M2Jfil
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


T
*There is 60% greater stretch in Goodyear
Supertwist Cord than in ordinary cords. This
extra stretch gives the Goodyear Supertwist tyre
body its extra strength and life, enabling it to
withstand road shocks and continuous flexing
without premature failure.
Goodyear’s All Weather Tread gives a matchless
measure of safety, dependability and wear.
Supertwist Cord and the All Weather Tread
belong only to Goodyear Tyres.
Ask the Goodyear dealer to demonstrate them
to you.
OOD
ft
1011 P a y no more f° r GOODYEAR Tyres and Tubes made in Australia
than for any other make.
A
30*50P


e
and very great good at that. Undoubtedly
there is good in the work of both these
writers; possibly there is very great good;
but if the work of the previously-mentioned-
and*-ever-to-be-venerated dead has its por-
tion of bad; if the work of Shaw Neilsen
has likewise; if Robert Crawford (alive
when Mr. Green wrote) was simply not w
poet—then, in the language of the honor-
able descendants of Confucius, wha’ for?
Taken separately, these faults—if they are
faults, and not merely matters of opinion
—are unimportant, and certainly not with-
out precedent in contemporaneous criti-
cism. The trouble is that they cannot be so
taken. There must, in any critical survey,
be a critical standard. It must be nailed
to the mast. If it is to be juggled with,
hoisted to the top to match this writer,
brought down four yards to suit this other
one, then the jolly old army simply becomes
a bob-tailed rabble, what? All you get
from the General’s dispatches is that he
thinks bally highly of everybody, except,
of course, that fellow Crawford, who appears
to have got into the army by mistake.
[Here the Wart might he expected to
pause and curse pernicious war literature
for coloring his vocabulary, making him
send the army into battle with a mast, and
altogether leading him into a rat-hole.
However, he would probably proceed :]
Mr. Green’s book has all the merits that
my brothers have allowed it, and possibly
more. It will indicate, to nine out of every
ten, works of merit that they had never
before heard of. The manner of its writing
is not particularly inspiring, but it does
point a road; and, anyway, the writing
of inspiring history is said to be a lost
art, and the writing of inspiring criti-
cism must be close to ditto. It will be
noticed that the book is put forth as pre-
liminary to a “short history” of Australian
literature which the author hopes to have
ready in about two years. Perhaps it is an
impertinence on my part to suggest it
[Warts fancy this sort of mock modesty ],
but I cannot help feeling that Mr. Green
ought to say to himself before tackling
that next book: “If Parnassus is here, I’m
after it. I’m going to ringbark it and fence
it and hang this notice on the gate: 'Par-
nassus, This Way. SHOW PASSPORTS,
PLEASE.’ ”
CECIL MANN.
Help!
In reply to John Dailey (R.P. 19/3/’3O).
I asked for some information that he could
’eadily supply if he wished, but we don’t
seem to be getting on very far. I still
think that he should give us some facts
about the writers he so enthusiastically
champions that we may share his enthu-
siasm. And I did not say that Skuthorpe
was a genius or a better writer than James
Edmond.
Mr. Dailey believes it is the anthologist’s
uuty to explain why certain work was left
out. I don’t think so. Nor should the
anthologist be expected to send letters of
condolence to the widows of the excluded
writers who drop dead from disappointment.
Mr. Dailey has very pronounced views on
Australian prose-writing; I asked him to let
the public have the benefit of his knowledge
and experience. In response he does not
submit one fact in support of his views, but
says “blah” to all the points of the com-
pass. I’m disappointed. I expected some
light on the subject from a front-rank
writer, but I only get an imported word
largely used by A 1 Jolson’s compatriots.
Still, I am so thirsty for knowledge that I
cannot let go. I will reduce the authors
to two and the stories to one. Would Mr.
Dailey let us have the name of a first-
rate short story by (1) James Edmond or
(2) Dale Collins and tell us where it can
be found? It is not so very outrageous a
thing to ask that a writer give reasons for
his opinions!
FURNLEY MAURICE.
A Humorist in Russia
With a discretion possibly wise in book
editors, C. E. Vulliamy (editor), A. L.
Hynes (translator) and Dr. C. T. Hagberg
Wright (who pens an introduction) balance
carefully on the fence in making The Red
Archives (Bles). The book holds a selec-
tion from an extraordinary publication.
The Soviet-issued “Krasnyi Archiv” (“Red
Archives”) has been appearing periodically
about every two months for the past seven
years. It holds secret documents from
Napoleon s day to the present; a hetero-
geneous jumble, very badly edited but of
unique historical value. Nothing like it had
been done before. From the mass the Bles
selectors have taken salient documents of
especial interest to readers out of Russia
who want to get in touch with the Great
Turmoil. There are the confidential reports
to the Assistant Minister of Internal Affairs
from the police he had appointed to spy
upon Rasputin. The last days of the
Czanan regime emerge again ‘in private
correspondence. Similarly the revolution in
the Baltic Fleet; the seething Russia of
March to May, 1917; the Allied expedition
to Archangel; and Shackleton’s curiouslv
commercial interest in that adventure.
. The priceless thing of the book, however,
is the chapter entitled “A Plan for the
Assassination of the Kaiser.” It proves the
existence in the solemn Russia of 1916 of
a first-class humorist. A Jew convict, in
on his sixth offence, Yakov Mikhailov Sosna
wrote to Vissarionov, member of the council
of the Minister of Internal Affairs, putting
before him a most ridiculous plot for the
assassination of the Kaiser. He would get
a couple of assistants, and, in a ’plane of
German make, fly over the lines—if neces-
sary dropping a bomb or two on the Rus-
sian trenches to allay suspicion—work his
way, through the medium of a relation
employed in an unspecified capacity at
Krupp’s, to an acquaintanceship with the
heads of that firm, and so on and on until
at last he and his comrades reached the
Kaiser himself. Then, with their ’plane
handy, they would kill the War Lord with
a “secret appliance,” and with a little luck
they would get away. In this translation
Sosna is credited with possible lunacy; but
his wonderful scheme was taken seriously
by authority. No one knows what hap-
pened to him in the end; perhaps his plan
worked and he got all he wanted—release
from a Moscow gaol. Something certainly
was necessary in a country whose leaders
could swallow such a weight of absurdity.
No one would accuse Russia of being a
prolific producer of humorists, but it did
produce one in Sosna. He deserves en-
shrinement as one of the great leg-pullers
of history.
A Satchel of Books
The Course of English Classicism, by
Sherard Vines (Hogarth Press). As with
the rest of the fine Hogarth Lectures series,
the title, tells the story. This one has not
the “popular” appeal of some of the others,
but it is brightly written, vigorously critical
and altogether an excellent example of how
a vast and possibly dry topic can be given
a fresh breath of life. A book for students
of English, and a very good one.
Adam and Evelyn at Keie, by Robert Her-
ring (Elkin Mathews and Marrot). Adam
is a gardener, and Eve emerges naked from
a pool, having got there in the course of a
moving-picture production. A somewhat
precious book, but containing some passages
of humor and of interest to those familiar
with the world’s premier botanical gardens.
The futuristic illustrations have a quaint
impressiveness,
The Science of Happiness, by Harold Dear-
den (Heinemann), ushers in a new “library,”
the Crown. Dr. Dearden believes that “hap-
piness should be more than a windfall; and
to obtain some knowledge of the mind and
its requirements is surely to increase one’s
chances in the search.” Which does not
mean the dryasdust mental uplift stuff it
might suggest. In fact, Dr. Dearden’s studies
are largely of the body. His sex chapters
have interesting points of conflict with some
of the views of Marie Stopes. He hasn’t
that lady’s joyous enthusiasms, but his book
is sincere, entertaining and rational.
Monks Are Monks, by George Jean Nathan
(Knopf). Most awful bilge for a writer who
has spent all his life attacking the artistic
works of other people to put his name to.
It should give his enemies a golden oppor-
tunity for the retort discourteous. It pur-
ports to be the histories of Lorinda Hope
and Gilbert Hemingham, who, whenever they
open their mouths in a boudoir or at a
dinner-table, void an essay on the theatre or
other subject previously printed by Mr.
Nathan in the “American Mercury.” Nathan
has wit, expressed in an awkward Germanic
style, but not a trace of humor, and lacking
that human quality his characters give forth
a dry and horrible rattle like so many skele-
tons. No man has rehashed his journalistic
mutton more clumsily.
Britain and the Baltic, by E. W. Poison
Newman (Methuen). Deserved better from
its author than the title he wished upon
it. It is obviously written from personal
experience in the countries embraced, and
up-to-date social descriptions of these logi-
cally support the principal contention, that
there are grave risks to peace in a possible
Russo-German combination, and that the
north countries look to England for assist-
ance. There are odd glimpses that give the
book a value apart from its theories, such
as _ those of the ex-Kaiser’s palace, now
•strictly called the Museum, wherein is the
“War Lord’s” library intact, even to the
table upon which William signed his mobil-
isation orders. The table is made of wood
of Nelson’s Victory, and Nelson’s “England
expects” faced the Kaiser as he wrote.
The Open Conspiracy, by H. G. Wells
(Hogarth Press). A new version, revised,
tightened and improved, of Wells’s state-
ment of political faith published a couple
of years ago. It is an enlargement upon
the basic theories of the Commonsense-of-
World-Peace address, delivered in the Reich-
stag last year. Wells sees no hope for any-
thing like world peace in fiction and other
propaganda of questionable lasting qualities,
nor does he hope for it while the existing
system of water-tight nationalities lasts. His
book is not put forth as a new gospel, but
simply as “the statement of a new way of
living that has already become plain in the
minds of a number of people.” It is a
virile piece of thinking, a vigorous piece of
writing. Wells’s “open conspiracy” is in
plainer terms opposition to humbug. The
book deserves the attention of everyone who
doesn’t prefer to wrap liis brains in cotton-
wool.
Studies in Literature, by Sir Arthur
Quiller-Couch (Cambridge University Press;
Angus and Robertson). If these studies,
of which this volume holds the third series,
have not led thousands to a better apprecia-
tion of what is worth while in English litera-
ture, all criticism must be hopeless. The
Professor of English at Cambridge has the
rare gift of inspiring interest. He is tre-
mendously sane for his time. While scores
of noisy pens shout their “Eurekas!” over
the new things that are being done in (or to)
the language, he sticks quietly to his lectures,
expounding liis old faith in the beauty of
pure prose and poetry; allusive, erudite and
gently humorous. The Studies keep grandly
up to the standard set in his first hook
of Cambridge talks, “The Art of Writing”
probably as near to being a classic in criti-
cism as anything this century has produced
“The English Elegy,” the “Journals of
Dorothy Wordsworth,” “Shakspeare’s Com-
edies,” “Coventry Patmore,” “On Rendm?
for the New English Tripos,” “On* ‘the
New Reading Public,’ ” “W. S. Gilbert” and
addresses on Iveats and Scott are the con-
tents of the latest volume.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice {except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
ana no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
D.A.8.: If you are not over 17, you
might, though this is a bad time to try. .. .Irene H.:
But why drag in Captain Cook in that fashion?
. ...M.C.D.: Hopeless. Get an experienced Digger
to revise it for you T.W.8., Stan M., R.McD.,
Kathleen K.: Beaten in the straight. .. . J.R.R.: John
W., Karri, Harry C., F.A., L.A.M., G.J.R.: Also ran.
....Miskin: “Potter” doesn’t get anywhere; other
starts with a masterly picture and trails olf to
nothing.... Beryl S.: You’ve got the ear; now drop
the pen for five years and read Ashmead: Undis-
tinguished. .. .E.F.C.: Nice rhyming... .Frances S.:
Ditto Hermit: Sorry, it must be “Punch”
Jean W.: Fair album verse... .8.T.D.: Don’t see
any hope for you R.T.: Thoughtful. Regret the
bag won’t hold it One of ’Em: Don’t think so.
Vi illiam S.: Unreal. That device of making the
characters explain to the reader what has happened
between them is rarely effective T.P.8.: We find
Guinivere indigestible... . F.H.D.: “Unclean” got to
the third reading*. It made friends everywhere but
no enthusiastic friend anywhere North N.: Bit
too stiff in the joints F. 0.: Tried hard to find a
burglar like yours, but failed A. 8.5.: Didn’t
convince us it was true O.B.: In several places
the meaning appeared quite clear J.W.R.: All
fail to qualify... .E. 5.8.: It apparently flows out of
you without any trouble—worse luck. .. .C.H.: “The
Goal of a Sundowner” is, as usual, a cosy fire....
Queen B.: Passed out with more regret than usual.
Sydney Austral: (1) Just a tinkle. (2) Don’t
know; Jubilee Bulletins are very scarce—we bought
some back at 25., and they have been sold for more.
... .Marjory H.: Small point; no promise. .. .Norman
W.: Not quite....B.E.W.: Follows all the deepest
ruts in the Inky Way Jay Melb.: Might win a
place in panto E.E.M.: Very close. .. .C.K.; Fair
to moderate D.S.: “Life —A Sonnet” discharged
on two counts: (1) That it isn’t life. (2) That it
isn’t a sonnet.... Harry C.: Seems to be something
missing about the “Speedboat” W.F.8.: Slime.
. ...J.E.N.: Par. idea. Verse spoils it. .. . H.L- J.:
Can’t judge before reading, but the idea isn’t attrac-
tive A.G.: “To me, love is a pool.” Swim out,
lad; swim out... .Bellerive: We are charmed with
the fidelity of it:—
Tins of paints I carried out,
Pots and frying pans,
A boiler and iron kettles
And rusty billycans.
A dilapidated leather trunk,
A crushed canary cage,
Fragments of a spangled skirt,
A relic of the stage ;
A box of famous tonics
For neuritis and the blues;
A bundle of old clothing,
Boots and narrow shoes;
Torn and dusty pictures,
And old-fashioned almanacks,
A box of penny whistles,
And damaged jumping-jacks.
... .C. 8.: Nothing effective in the irregularities. ...
T.J.H.: Forced emotion P.H.: The theatrical
ending knocked “Ballade”... .N.S.: Good stuff in it,
but clumsily done... .E.T.: “Night Wind” blew
itself out hurriedly.... 1.H.R.: Merely piles senti-
mentality upon a neat epigram.... Leonidas: A
Spartan end W.T.McQ.: Description of the sea as
“cold, repelling: liquid” is the best of it....
G.W.R.S.: Agreed Ajax: Afraid the ploughshare
wins... . J.M.: Too long ; too rambling... .Sardonyx :
Bondi deserves at least three lines of the boost:—
r l alk about mama in trousers!
What a sight it is for wowsers!
Where’s a nicer beach than ours is?
. ...R.W.A.: Terribly bumpy when it breaks into
piose, which is mostly... .A.C.8.: Sense of rhythm,
but immature... ,H.R.: No offer for the spooks and
no spare room for Betty G.T.: Spun out till
interest cracks.... E.D.: We ask for beef and you
bring- us a cream-puff F.M.: Well labelled....
D.A.C. : Mad hatter moved on W.N.P.: The
elusive lady has gone... .C.J.8.W.: More propa-
ganda than p10t... .C.N.T.: Human little play, but
not suitable L.G.C.N.: “Ben’s bolt” missed
C.K.: Regret not O.K E.P.M.: Small potatoes.
.... J.R.R.: Some descriptive power, but composition
poor. .. . A.D.McC.: Have long suspected that Mephis-
topheles had a hand in planning this universe. . ..
M. : On both sides of the paper. Ah well, it
didn’t matter... .R.J.0.: Nightmarish stuff, unre-
deemed by even the rapid action in such lines as
So Freddy picked her up and carried her
To the township, where he married her.
Then later, when no longer drunk,
He kicked himself and did a bunk.
. ...D.E.: No show for “Going to the Show”....
W.S.L.: “Send Off” sent. Purchase of story rights
does not include dramatic rights. .. .M. 8.: Regret
can’t promote Constable O’Kelly H.T.M.: “The
ladies’ culture society” broke us up. . . .C.J.J.: “He
was rarely seen without his smile.” We know that
man and are not at home... .A.S.V.: Too long, other-
wise not bad....H.8.: Alas, all we can use is the
stamp.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.A.P.: If one of numerous bugs issuing from the
neck of one of many people was large enough to
carry a whole phrase, how large do you think the
cartoon would have to be?. ... J.W.G.: Change over
to Indian ink....C.K.: Lines still lack firmness....
N. : You may know the Never Never, but you ea-n’t
put it on paper... .D.W.: That gag doesn’t even get
a rest between rounds.... M.M.: Looks as if you
had placed the characters on a revolving disc and
drawn them whilst standing on your head... .H.W.:
Not infatuated with the maiden in the canoe....
E.T.C.: It might score a mauve certificate from a
children’s comic... .J.A.: Give yourself a few more
years’ study... .F. 0.5.: Haven’t altogether wasted
your evenings, though you’ve still a lot to learn.
. ...H.J.L. : Not much chop... .F.G.: The fellow’s
got Jacobean furniture legs... .1.A.M.: Don’t want
the waiter. .. .E.D.: Smooth it out and make the
lines less harsh.... T.N.: We’d have to be soft-
heated as well as soft-hearted to let that pass....
J.J.D.: Sorry, had to turn the sundowner away....
8.A.K.: You’re not improving. .. .P.A.C.: We
whistled for the beach inspector... .P. 8.: Clear
away those unnecessary scratches. .. .F.S.: Missed.
.. . .H.W.: Hope to see you later R.J.: Your
people are all Angles.


è


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 3618.
April 16, 1930.
CONSTERNATION AT ENEMY H.Q.
"Although English papers differ as to the merits of the Government's measures for combatin the depression, on the courage it has shown in
tackling the problem."
GENERAL ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (to his staff): "If once those Australians get into action, they'll win, tell you!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 211, George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 111,-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 2Jj9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 3$ Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: J,oz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional 1,0 z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: l,oz. or part thereof,
Id. elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES . . 2, 5
AUSTRALIA’S NONDESCRIPT TRADUCERS—
By Hector Dinning .. .. .. .. 2
GREEN’S “OUTLINE OF AUSTRALIAN
LITERATURE,” by Cecil Mann . . .. 2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON . . .. 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
Who’s Got the Money? 8
OUR BAD, BLOATED MILLIONAIRES .. 8
JOHN BROWN 8
THE CASE FOR A GOLD BONUS . . . • 8
THE COALFIELDS—WHAT NEXT ? . . .. 9
WHY GIVE POLITICIANS A BLANK
CHEQUE? »
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD .. .. .. 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with cartoonlets by
Frith) 10
“SO MANY MEN, SO MANY GODS”—
A drawing by Percival 11
SHADOW SHOWS—
A GUIDE TO THE PICTURES. . . . . . 11
PERSONAL (with illustrations) .. .. .. 13
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. 14, 15
THE COLLINS-STREET CAT—by Dr. Souter. . 14
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) . . . . 16
Faversliam in “The Hawk” . . . . .. 16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
THIS WEEK’S INVESTMENT TIP—
Are Associated Newspapers Good Buying?... 18
CALEDONIAN COLLIERIES 18
PERKINS BREWERY 18
WRIGHT HEATON 18
UNION TRUSTEES 18
METROPOLITAN LIFE IS
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) ... 23, 25
Free Service Department 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 31
WASTE OF LUCERNE HAY . . . . ■ • 28
ONION GROWING 28
QUESTIONS ANSWERED 28
HOW TO KEEP FARM ACCOUNTS . . • • 31
SMOKE-OH (with three drawings) . . .. 32
POVERTY POINT 35
THE INKY WAY .. 35
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, etc. 36
SPORTING (illustrated) 39, 41
WARWICK FARM RACES . 39
DONCASTER AND SYDNEY CUP TIPS .. 39
SERIAL —“MEN ARE HUMAN” 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 45
The New Serial — _ r ,
“THE PASSAGE,” by Vance Palmer.. 47, 01, 52
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE . . . . 48
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 50
“As We Said Before” —
A NEW WEEKLY FEATURE . . ■• 55
TWO COMPLETE STORIES—
“THE TALKIES COME TO BURRUMBA”—
By A. E. Jobson . . . • • • 57, 58
“CARTER’S MATE”—
By Paul Verschuer .. • • - • .. 58
VERSE —By Lucy Armstrong, Robert D.
Fitzgerald, R. Crawford, E. M. England. . 52
NEXT WEEK.
ANZAC MEMORIAL NUMBER.
Special Articles, Stories, Verse and Drawings.
Read “The Gateway”—the story of how Peter
came back and found his old Digger-mate.
TTuftfeiilleix/TL
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 16, 1930.
WHO’S GOT THE MONEY?
Dear Bulletin, —Newspapers have been devoting
much space to dolefully informing the people that we
are in a financial mess. It is admitted that much of
the loan money was used to pay interest due on
previous loans; but the point I want cleared up is:
What has become of all the millions the various
Governments did not use to pay interest with, and
the other millions they extracted from the people
by taxation and heaped together with the revenue
rake? I don’t want to be told they spent this
money on public works and national utilities and
on themselves. I know that. But money does not
evaporate or shrivel up. I want to know who has
that money—l have none of it. — Paul Cupid.
Only one article will pay debts in every
civilised eountry and that is gold. There is
no particular virtue about gold; it simply
happened to be a fairly scarce commodity,
very widely distributed, easily transported
and not easily destroyed, and it was con-
sequently accepted as an international
standard of value. There have been times
when it was produced in exceptionally large
quantities, and then, because the world was
prepared to pay more of it for a given quan-
tity of other commodities, we said things
were dear. At other times when it was not
produced in large enough quantities to
keep pace with the increasing demands of
mankind, it became dear; which meant that
we paid less of it for other commodities,
and so things were cheap. Forty years ago,
just before the Rand and Westralia had
begun to pour out their millions, the world
passed through a period of exceptionally
low prices—wool fell to a few pence per
pound—and gold was believed by many to
have become insufficient for its old purpose,
so it was proposed by the bimetallists that
silver and gold should operate as a standard
in double harness. The Rand and Westralia
killed the idea, and gold sat firmly on its
throne again.
When John Smith in one countiy buys
goods from Thomas Hook in another
country it is understood, therefore, without
being expressly stipulated, that payment
shall be made in gold. But it does not fol-
low that John Smith will personally ship off
gold to Thomas Hook. What happens in
practice is that John Smith’s fellow-country-
man James Jones has sold goods to Henry
Robinson in Thomas Hook’s country, and,
if the two transactions run to the same
money, the whole business is finalised by
Smith paying his neighbor Jones and Rob-
inson paying his neighbor Hook. Between
Australia on the one side and the rest of the
world on the other there are thousands of
transactions every year. Payments are
made almost entirely through the banks.
The sales on one side are supposed to cancel
the sales on the other. If they do not, then
the country that has not sold enough has
to do one of two things: ship gold to make
up the difference, or float foreign loans for
the same purpose. When it floats foreign
loans it has interest to pay; and thereafter
it must export enough commodities or
commodities and gold not only to pay for
what it buys abroad but to meet this inter-
est bill as well. If it falls short, it must
float more foreign loans to make up the
balance.
For many years past Australia has made
up the balance by floating loans. In the
past seven years our exports fell 56 millions
short of paying for our imports, and on top
of that our foreign interest bill was- 180
millions, so that we were 236 millions short
in seven years—more probably.
But, it is argued, those imports at least
arrived, and if we did not pay for them
they were certainly paid for when they were
retailed; and what has become of the money
and why should there be any embarrass-
ment?
The goods arrived all right: there is no
doubt-about that. Also, in most cases they
•were sold; and the local money for which
they were sold was put into other things
—offices, shops, houses, railways, schools,
furniture, piano-players, clothes, food.
Meantime other wealth was produced in
Australia and most of it is still here: sheep,
machinery, vineyards, and ten thousand
other things. But if a man owned half of
them and owed a hundred pounds in London
or New York or Berlin he might not be able
to pay it. He could not pay it if he could
not lay his hand on gold or something
which he could export and sell abroad for
gold.
The Bulletin has been trying for the
past 10 years to get Australia to realise
what trouble it was storing up for itself by
committing itself to vast payments abroad
which would have to be made in gold with-
out providing itself with either gold or the
means of raising gold. That a crisis did not
present itself earlier was simply due to the
fact that our foreign creditors were taking
our lOU’s, and nothing was ever surer than
that they would refuse to do that as soon
as they realised that we were giving lOU’s
to pay even the interest on our earlier
lOU’s. As we know now, they began to
realise it 18 months ago.
One other question remains: how does
all this produce unemployment in Aus-
tralia? If the goods arrived, and were sold,
and the money is here, why should it be
scarce? And if it is not scarce why should
there be so much unemployment?
When a group of a dozen men who have
been getting £3OO a year apiece find them-
selves with an extra £5O apiece, they can
make a considerable splash with the wind-
fall. To the rest of the community it is as
good as if two other customers had been
presented to them with £3OO a year to
spend apiece. As we have seen, for many
years past Australia has been getting nearly
40 millions’ worth of goods per annum
for which it did not pay, though it used the
proceeds; and now that windfall has
stopped. Even at the best of times that
would cause a very serious dislocation of
trade and industry; for £40,000,000 pays
128,000 men £6 a week for a year. Unfor-
tunately on top of the stoppage of our
windfall, purchased with lOU’s, and one
cause of that stoppage, prices of most of
our export commodities have fallen (prob-
ably because there has been an exceptional
world-demand for gold), and drought has
further added to the trouble. Things, as we
call them, could not be good even without
the principal crisis; with it they had to be
bad.
All there is for us to do now is to recog-
nise our altered conditions and turn a bad
thing into a good one. It can be done.
The Government and the banks are meet-
ing the principal crisis by cutting down
imports drastically. The price at which we
can supply ourselves with these goods will
depend on ourselves. The extent of the new
internal trade which we will build up
depends on ourselves. The moment labor
realises the position and shows itself alive
to its responsibilities, confidence will flow
back, and, with the assistance of the banks,
real prospP T "’ + ' <r -^•'^ear.
OUR BAD, BLOATED MILLIONAIRES.
Australia had hardly become acquainted
with its new tariff arrangements before a
well-defined school or kindergarten of
thought developed. It represented the
Country which is Scared of its Own Shadow.
Two terrors had got it down and bitten it.
One was lest the movement to substitute
local manufactures and employment for
importations to the proposed (or estimated)
extent of £40,000,000 per annum, or suffi-
cient to balance the national- accounts,
might stay too long. There is an urgent
demand that the tariff should expire at a
fixed date, so that manufacturers may not
rush too recklessly into the business of
employing Australian workmen, and
importers may not rush too hastily out of
the business of employing outside workmen
at our charge. The other terror is that
under the new system there may arise a
race of rich Australian capitalists, though
no alarm at all is expressed lest the import-
ing system may greatly help to bloat a
race of rich outside capitalists. With a
considerable section, which describes itself
as “moderate,” these alleged dangers loom
much larger than the chance that a quarter
of the nation may soon be on the unem-
ployed list, thus furnishing material for
Red revolutionaiy propaganda, and the
very genuine hazard that (without a drastic
change) the Government may compulsorily
stop payment of its external liabilities
before the close of 1930. In the desire not
to be “extreme,” it appears that many com-
fortably placed gentlemen would prefer to
take all the risks of both unemployment
and public insolvency.
It may not be the undiluted horror it is
cracked up to be to have rich men in
Australia who have grown wealthy in the
pursuit of Australian industry. They make
the land richer instead of poorer if they
grow up to the detriment of rich men out-
side who batten on Australia under the
policy of vast imports. The local rich
man who manufactures here supplies em-
ployment, pays much local tax-revenue
while he is alive and also immediately after
death, and probably leaves his business to
heirs who do the same. The rich outside
manufacturer who exports his products to
Australia does these things likewise—but
mostly in England or the United States or
Czechoslovakia, and for the benefit of out-
side Governments. The local rich indus-
trialist, being regarded as an evil, may be
suppressed by making everybody poor, but
it isn’t worth while unless we can level
down the outside rich industrialist who
sends goods here and isn’t nearly so par-
ticular as we are as to the conditions under
which they are made.
There is one variety of millionaire whom
Australia craves after with an almost un-
precedented crave. That is the one who
will put an immense bag of savings into a
new loan. He isn’t asked what wages he
pays, for he probably pays none. Nor is
he asked what good he does with money,
for he really does nothing with it, but the
borrower often invests it in things which
prove a dead loss. This species of capitalist
is free of considerable tax burdens as a
reward for not being an active and direct
employer, and he is a numerous person
whose increase is much cultivated. It will
be a serious business if all the loose capital
in the country is some day invested in
public undertakings, especially if the under-
takings don’t pay.
JOHN BROWN.
This article, written by a man who
knew John Brown for 30 years, is an
attempt to explore the mind of a
remarkable character.
When John Brown died the other day
there was general curiosity as to what
would become of his fortune. It was known
that he had no children and that of his
two brothers the only one who had taken
much interest in the Browns’ business had
pre-deceased him. . When details of the will
were given out, and it was known that
the bulk of the estate had been given to
Adrian Knox and Thomas Armstrong, the
latter the Browns’ manager, as owners and
tenants in common, and that only a few
thousands had been left to public purposes,
there was much muttering. John Brown,
it was said, had died as he had lived, a
mean man, without public spirit.
Those who said this did not understand
the psychology of John Brown. John
Brown, it can safely be said, did what he
believed to be best for the country that he
loved—after his fashion. There are thou-
sands of us who will not believe that he
might not have done better; but, even so,
it is as well to try to get at the soul of
John Brown. And in that inquiry we shall
have to go back a long way—right back
to the early convict days.
The ill effects of the Bligh era were felt
far into the reign of Governor Macquarie,
and in 1819 John Thomas Bigge, who had
been Chief Justice of Trinidad, was sent
by the Colonial Office to report on affairs
in New South Wales. He recommended
that people with capital should be given
land in proportion to the number of con-
victs they would undertake to employ and
maintain; one result was the formation in
London of the Australian Agricultural Co.,
with a capital of a million, to take up a
million acres. A million acres in a country
almost uninhabited and probably worthless
was not considered of much consequence,
and. various other things were thrown in
for good measure —among them a rather
vague monopoly of the right to mine coal
in Australia for 30 years. The co. had a
Royal Charter and was very aristocratic;
its chief sponsor in Australia was John
Macarthur. It had many enemies in the
colony. A few years later, when he wrote
of it, old Dr. Lang said:—
“It is fortunate for the public that these
magnificent schemes of individual aggrandise-
ment at the expense of whole communities
very rarely succeed. The A. A. Co. put forth
the fairest professions and promises; I have
never heard, however, of its doing anything
for the colony in any way. Cupidity was its
mainspring; its management was long char-
acterised by the sheerest folly.”
But, largely because of its aristocratic con-
nections, most of the “best people” in the
colony warmly approved of it; so it was
able to maintain its coal-mining monopoly
for some years.
Then, in 1845, a poor Scotch miner named
James Brown began to mine coal at East
Maitland. The A. A. Co. warned him off.
He defied the great company. The co.
began proceedings against him; amid the
suppressed cheers of the unimportant, James
Brown went into the fight with a dogged-
ness which even at this time compels
admiration. Beaten in the colony he carried
an appeal to England; but before the
matter could come on the co. abandoned
its claim, the threatened monopoly was
gone for ever and popular rights were
established. _ < .
And thus “a house was built.’ To this
day the rank and file of Newcastle regards
“the Browns” as different from other mine-
owners. It may not know why; but the
feeling is there. And it is just as certain
that John Brown felt he was somehow
different, too. “John Brown is no
silvertail,” I heard a miner say at New-
castle 25 years ago. discussing whether John
would join the other owners in a certain
action. And when I once asked another
owner where he thought I would find John
Brown, he replied, “On the steps of the
post office [at Newcastle], most likely, dis-
cussing us with his cronies.”
So, born of a rebel house. John Brown
remained a rebel. What the founder of the
house did was the achievement of an indi-
vidual. The building had been a triumph
of individualism. What would Newcastle
have been but for James Brown? John
Brown did not talk of his ancestors; but
one knew that these thoughts were in his
mind. Industry had to have leaders. They
were the most important thing in the world.
He was proud of what he had done,
proud of what the Browns before him had
done. There is a story, probably true, that
“Big Bill” Baillieu once proposed to turn
the business over to a public company. The
suggestion was treated almost as if it were
sacrilegious. Richmond Main! Pelaw
Main!' To be “messed about” by a public
company! The idea was abhorrent.
Now the end was drawing near. What
was to happen? How was this house that
was capable of sheltering so many to be
carried on? Those who knew John Blown
will believe that he honestly thought he
could not do a better thing for Newcastle
and the State and Australia than by pro-
viding, so far as he was able, for its con-
tinuance. It may be that personal likes
and dislikes entered into the matter here;
but it is almost as certain as anything can
be that he picked Adrian Knox to associate
with his trusted general manager, not merely
because he liked him, trusted him, admned
him, but because also he believed Adrian
Knox was the ablest man in sight.
He might have created a trust and
ordered that the profits of the business
should be distributed for the public good.
But, though not an uncharitable man, he
was too thorough an individualist foi that.
“Build a business, carry on a business
that was the best way to help the woild.
Maybe he was right. He was, at any rate,
entitled to his opinion. And that in any
case the public would bite nearly one-third
out of his estate in probate duties he was
very well aware.
P.X.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Gold Bonus? —Well, Yes.
The suggested Commonwealth gold bonus
was copiously mentioned during the W est-
ralian election campaign, all the speakers
naturally being in favor of it. Defence
Minister Green artlessly announced that he
had urged the bonus on his colleagues at
seven Cabinet meetings, but what, he asked,
could one man do against 12? He pointed
out that the Commonwealth already paid
bounties on wire-netting, galvanised-iron,
sulphur and other commodities, and aigued
that a gold bonus offered greater possibili-
ties than any of them. There is certainly
more to be said for it than for the assist-
ance given to, say, cotton-growing, which
has been subsidised for 10 years (the
Commonwealth’s share to June 30 last
amounted to £422,700), with inconsiderab e
results. And it would be less of a gamble
than the wheat guarantee of 4s. a bushel
at siding when the price of wheat ha&
fallen to 4s. 21 d. a bushel at Fremantle.
There is no world shortage of cotton,
sugar, wheat or even wool. There is a
world shortage of gold, which explains
wholly or in part why practically all com-
modities are at a low price when measured
by gold. An increased output would cer-
tainly be extraordinarily handy in Aus-
tralia during the next year or two, whether
for note-issue purposes or for export. An-
other Coolgardie would be more than
handy; it would be a vast blessing.
A bonus would undoubtedly give an
impetus to prospecting in four States, if
not the whole six, and one Territory. It


THE FOOL’S ANSWER.
“The economic position was discussed in the N.S.W. Assembly during the past week. Mr. Lang and his followers were unable to contribute anything in the way of a
solution. They affirmed that the crisis had been worked up in order to reduce wages, and Mr. Lang accused Mr. Bavin of being the tool of the big employers in the matter.”
STEWARD: “All hands to the pumps, sir—the ship’s sinking.”
THE MAN WHO KNOWS EVERYTHING: “Gam, you want to get some cheap labor, that’s what you’re after. If your-boat sinks, what’s it got to do with us:
we don’t own it, do we?”
would encourage the formation of syndi-
cates such as took up the Golden Mile. It
would lead to the re-opening of many old
shows which were abandoned because the
margin of profit was too small. Even as an
unemployed-relief measure it would return
more for the money than the building of
motor speedways which has been going on
at such a crazy rate and for which even the
Scullidores have contrived to find another
million.
Mr. Green would be “quite satisfied if
the big companies which are paying divi-
dends were left out.” But the exclusion
of dividend-payers would raise all sorts of
difficulties. It would be better to include
them, conditionally on their employing a
stipulated percentage of additional hands
at the existing award rates, rising or falling
with the cost of living, new wage claims
to be absolutely barred. There are thou-
sands of good miners out of work.
In normal times The Bulletin would
have no use for a gold bonus. But the
times are exceptional; and, anyhow, the
Commonwealth will have to continue the
special grants to Westralia or devise a
substitute. What more fruitful form of
assistance could there be' than a bonus
limited to two years and payable in Aus-
tralian notes through the Commonwealth
Bank? The bonus would, of course, have
to be Australian-wide, but Westralia would
probably receive six-sevenths of it, that
being the State’s present proportion of the
gold output. The Westralian yield last
year amounted to 377,176 fine ounces. If,
as a result of the bonus, it got back to
617,809 fine ounces, the 1920 figure, in our
present circumstances the money would be
well spent indeed.
The Coalfields—What Next?
So far as the settlement of the Newcastle
coal-mining dispute is concerned the law
has broken down utterly. It has collapsed
at every point. It was flouted at the very
start: the owners broke it by locking out
the miners—of that the report of the Com-
mission headed by Justice Davidson should
leave the public in no doubt. But, though
the owners were law-breakers, only one
charge was formally made against any of
their number, and that charge was with-
drawn. Later, on a change of Government,
the opportunity of a prosecution still pre-
sented itself; and Labor was as passive as-
the Nationalists had been. Subsequently
both State and Federal arbitration
authorities did what seemed to be in their
power to end the disaster; and both failed.
Conference, a method approved by the law,
likewise failed—chiefly because the decisions
arrived at have been submitted not to
secret ballots of the men concerned, but
to_ mass meetings, dominated by men whose
mission in life is to make trouble.
In the circumstances only one thing
remains to be done. Those mines must be
opened. The state of the country demands
it. And the law must stand beside the
owners who will open their mines and the
miners who will work in those mines. If
the law cannot protect these people, then
the law had better openly go out of busi-
ness. To remain in business under a false
pretence that it can uphold its authority
is merely inviting trouble while inducing
in the community a false sense of security.
While the responsibility for starting the
trouble belongs to the owners, the largest
share of the blame for prolonging it lies
with the miners’ leaders. Many of them
quite clearly know that the position is
hopeless, that the long and in many respects
heroic fight is lost. But, instead of pro-
viding for a series of secret ballots at which
the true opinion of their splendidly loyal
followers might have been ascertained, they
gave the decision over to the hotheads
and the thugs. There never w T as in recent
times a big industrial fight in which public
sympathy could have been so easily
captured for the workers; there never has
been a fight in which that public sympathy
has been so completely wasted. To-day,
thanks to bad leadership, they have strained
the patience of even the most militant
unions.
Why Give Politicians a Blank Cheque?
Dear Bulletin, —How would it do to
amend the Constitution in such a way as
to prevent any and every Federal Parlia-
ment in future from adding a single pound
to our outside borrowings (except, perhaps,
for financing a war), unless and until a loan
bill were approved by the electors, at a
referendum in which no public servants
were allowed to vote? That method of
disqualifying the self-interested voter would
seem to have all the virtue of The Bul-
letin’s suggested plan for saving democracy,
without its drawbacks.
Moreover, would it not be all to the
good, from the standpoint of getting the
electors to take greater interest in their
financial affairs, if from time to time they
were asked to approve or disapprove of
an outside loan intended for this or that
local purpose? How much greater than
now the chance would be for a paper like
The Bulletin to get voters to sit up and
take notice of such a vitally important
subject! The Bulletin for 25 years or
more has been lifting its voice against the
policy of “borrow and boom.” But it has
been a voice crying in the wilderness, be-
cause the ordinary voter can do little more
than say to himself that he agrees with you,
and then go on waiting in vain for oppor-
tunity to make such agreement articulate
per medium of his vote. The reason for
that is the inevitably great scarcity of poli-
ticians seeking votes on promises to oppose
outside borrowing.
There is, unfortunately, no way of thus
amending the Constitution—nor, for that
matter, of amending the electoral laws in
the way you have suggested— except by
persuading a majority of politicians to
permit it to be done. But if ever any time
were particularly opportune to make such a
move, would it not be a time of suffering
for our sins, such as we are now entering
upon?
The present Federal Parliament is about
to submit several constitutional amend-
ments to the people. What a great oppor-
tunity there is, if they would embrace it,
to submit still another issue on the question
of abolishing or severely restricting the
powers of Federal politicians to buy votes
and popularity and power by mortgaging
our children to money-lenders abroad.
—Yours truly, N. M. Thomas.
In the Westralian Wheat Belt.
“Morrell”: The Minister of Agricultural
Water Supplies spoke in our Westralian
hamlet the other night. There was a
chilling lack of enthusiasm and the gentle-
man seemed aggrieved; but the grievance
is on our side. When loans were plentiful
his Government sprinkled the wheat belt,
with cement tanks—day-labor, damn-the-
expense jobs, of course. The one in our
district is about 1500 yards and cost £8
a yard. It is good holding country, and
we cockies put down serviceable dams for
2s. or 3s. per yard.
Under an Act passed when the general
election was a long way off, the Govern-
ment can rate any farmer deemed to be
within carting distance to pay for these
triumphs of the borrow-and-bust policy.
The charge runs from -t-d. to 3d. per acre
per annum, and as the holdings are all
large—they have to be, the quality of the
land varying so much—it amounts to a
serious exaction. I know a man who has
to pay £l2 10s. a year, though he is nearly
22 miles from the tank.
There are many parallel cases. The worst
is that of a farmer who is wrestling with
5000 acres of sand plain—all third-class
country. He has a stout heart, as befits a
man who takes up sand plain, but it nearly
broke when he saw what his contribution
to the cost of the 1500-yard tank was
assessed at —£32 a year. The irony of it
is that he uses a tractor, the only animal he
possesses being a dog. Possibly he will
lose the farm and the tractor, but he is
keeping the dog—to sool on to the next
loan-mongering politician who comes round
and poses as a pillar of enlightened pater-
nalism.
The Cost of Referenduins.
“Bill o’ Costs”: Cannot we borrow from
the law a good practice to deal with those
pestilent fanatics who are for ever demand-
ing, and too often being conceded, referen-
dums of electors upon such earth-shaking
issues as the closing of liquor bars on Satur-
days at one o’clock?
When a plaintiff wants to pursue an
unusual and costly remedy, or seems likely
to make an expensive litigious nuisance of
himself, the party assailed may pull him
up short with a demand for security for
costs. Then, unless the plaintiff can show
a good prima facie case of an intolerable
wrong to be redressed, he must put up
security to the Master’s satisfaction to
ensure that the defendant won’t be imposed
on or the courts exploited'. Why not
apply this to public issues? Any Govern-
ment has only to say to these clamorous
organisations: “Show a prima facie case
that Parliament is incompetent to deal with
the subject, or is corrupt, of unsound mind,
or incurably obstinate; then put up the
estimated cost of the election and take your
referendum.” The deposit might be made
returnable in case of a “Yes” majority;
otherwise the cash should be fairly retained
and things called square.
As between defined party organisations
like pro- and anti-liquor, a further deposit
might be asked for as “costs in the cause”
to abide the event, the loser to pay, vae
victis. This would at least give the fight
a sporting interest. Of course the costs
would have to be taxed to make certain
that no improper allowances of free beer
or extra gas for prolonged prayer-rallies
were charged up.
Incidentally, I see in this scheme excel-
lent relief work for some of the humbler
unemployed in profession in a period
of litigious drought.
Disarmament and Japan.
“Feng-Shui”: Anybody who expects much
from Japan’s cravings for peace at any Dis-
armament Conference is likely to be dis-
appointed. Naval reduction in Japan is as
much a domestic question as an inter-
national one. The army and navy are prac-
tically owned by rich and influential rivals.
The Choshu clan “owns” the army and the
Satsuma family the navy. Disbandment
of the army involves unemployment and
loss of power and prestige to the Choshu
folk, and the consequent political advance-
ment of the Satsuma people. An unsuc-
cessful military adventure, such as the
Siberian expedition, is as bad for one or
other of the combines as the failure of a
new model to an American motor manufac-
turer. The competition between the two
houses dates from feudal times.
Recently the Choshus have been severely
criticised by press, public and Parliament
for keeping a standing army of 200,000 of
their friends and \ oor relations at the public
expense when the international situation
does not seem to demand it. A Govern-
ment which tried to dodge the issue by
cutting the salaries of civil servants nearly
lost office over it; nevertheless, no effective
reduction of the army resulted. This leads
the Satsuma family to be more than ever
reluctant to agree to a genuine curtail-
ment of the naval programme.
The Parliamentary demand for economy
in both services looks important on paper,
but the Ministers controlling the army and
navy are responsible not to Parliament, but
to the God-emperor—though it has to be
confessed that this deity is becoming in-
creasingly sensitive to the opinions of his
subjects.


r
é
ê
sioi4\
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Scullidore tariff for the wholesale
blocking of imports got unqualified support
in one highly respectable quarter. Amid the
roar of British Freetraders, exporters and
the Beaverbrook-Rothermere press, the Lon-
don “Times” said Australia had taken the
right way, and, so far as it could see, the
only way.
The Five-Power Conference having col-
lapsed with no more result than a further
straining of the relations between France
and Italy, a Three-Power undertaking that
enjoins Britain, the U.S.A. and Japan to
economise on warships has been evolved. The
agreement affects all classes of vessels, and
nine battleships (five of them British) are
to be scrapped for a start. The extent to
which the arrangement is likely to stay
gummed will depend on events, political and
otherwise.
The latest from Canberra is that another
half-million is to be hacked off the Defence
estimates. That means wholesale dismissals,
although there were to be no dismissals; it
means also, unless report lies, that the new
uniforms so effusively promised will not be
“A few more hacks Won’t do us any harm.”
issued until the latter part of 1931, if at all.
But talkie apparatus is to be made at the
Lithgow small-arms factory; and there is a
certain fitness about that. The way things
are going Australia will be reduced to talking
at the enemy when its race-exclusion policy
is challenged.
Collier’s Labor Government has gone
down in Westralia, largely because of its
own Electoral Redistribution Bill. That
measure, necessary as it was, cost it four
certain goldfields seats, and it failed to make
corresponding gains in Perth-Fremantle,
which reaped the benefit. In fact, the altera-
tion of boundaries unseated Rowe, sometime
secretary of the Watersiders’ Union, in
North-East Fremantle, and . Clydesdale,
Wren’s racecourse manager, in Canning;
while of the new divisions Maylands elected
ex-Premier Scaddan, who has been a Nation-
alist of sorts since 1916, and Nedlands chose
Keenan, who sat in the same Cabinet
(Moore’s) with Jimmy Mitchell. The farm-
ing districts declared solidly against Labor.
So Mitchell becomes Premier again—and he
has promised to find work for all the -unem-
ployed.
The Cockies will be strong in the new
Westralian Assembly, but they made a mess
of things in Katanning, and will require a
new leader on that account. Arnold Piesse,
who was member for the district before
Thomson (and his brother, Fred Piesse, was
member before him), wanted to nominate, in
the Cocky interest, and there was nothing
against the man; moreover, “the open go”
has been a strict party rule since 1914.
Endorsement was nevertheless refused on
the ground that it was Thomson’s seat.
Piesse stood as an Independent: the Labor-
ites naturally threw their votes to him;
and Thomson is out.
The emergency tariff hits John Bull’s
motor trade harder than that of Brother
Jonathan. Unassembled chassis are not
affected, and on last year's figures 33 per
cent, of Jonathan’s trade will come under
“I amn’t frettin’, J.B.”
the 50 p.c. surcharge as against 40.1 per
cent, of John’s. Jonathan’s foresight in
establishing assembling factories in Aus-
tralia is going to pay dividends.
Chapman, the imported secretary of the
Railways Union, has told the N.S.W. Gov-
erment in loud polysyllables that they will
resist every attempt to either increase their
working hours or reduce their pay. “We
have nothing to give away,” he says to round
off the position with a fine sentence that will
stick in the mind. And perhaps some of
them haven’t got anything to give away. But
they all have something that Chapman and
his executive can rob them of —and that is
their jobs.
An all-round reduction of wages and
salaries is proposed in N.S.W. and Queens-
land. It won’t be called a reduction, but if
a State Government levies 3d. in the £ tax
on everybody’s pay without exemption it
reduces the income whether it is a reduction
or not. The same happens, but in a more
violent form, when 2s. 6d. in the £ is taken
out of a miner’s earnings to support a strike.
The proceeds of the reduction are to be used
to continue “works of a reproductive charac-
ter” which would otherwise leave off in-
definitely, though there may be doubts about
the reproductiveness of the character. The
money (£3,000,000 a year is mentioned in
N. S. Wales) won’t go far, but it is at least
a case of constructing something with the
people’s own resources, and without dragging
the eternal, loan into the business.
“Freetrade is passing to-day because no
Freetraders are being born,” said British ex-
Prime Minister Baldwin tbe other day. He
added as a good reason why they dodge being
born: “The only equal terms on which trade
treaties can now be negotiated are those
which enable the British negotiator to say
‘lf you don’t give us some advantage we
shall hit you on the head.’” Non-resistance
is played out. So is the turning of the other
cheek to the smiter in the hope of thereby
laying up treasure in Heaven.
The MacDonald Government is now com-
piling a twilight budget. It has flickered out
on its promise to abolish the rudimentary
Protection which Britain enjoys, because it
is dreadfully short of money! It can’t put
on more duties which would help industry.
To do that it would have to swallow itself
whole, and it couldn’t digest itself. So it
is thinking out more taxes which are guar-
anteed not to help British industry but may
be of use to somebody else.
In Maoriland, as in Australia, military
training camps have been abandoned this
year, and it is an open secret that the com-
pulsory system is to be abolished. That
means that the defence of the Dominion will
be left to rifle clubs, the Air Force (which is
to be strengthened) and the cruisers Dun-
edin and Diomedes. Maoriland politicians
are just as positive as our Labor leaders that
“the country has no need to fear invasion.”
The Swiss are not so cocksure or confiding,
although the League of Nations has its head-
quarters at Geneva. Switzerland sticks to
its national militia, service in which is com-
pulsory and universal, and with a population
of four millions maintains a peace establish-
ment of 46,000, which number can be in-
creased to 260,000 if the brotherly-love busi-
ness breaks down.
The Adelaide unemployed are swooping
down on the new State Government as soon
as Ministers are sworn in; and Labor can’t
say they were not invited. In a manifesto
published a day before the election it an-
nounced that “a vote for Liberalism is cer-
tain to mean more people out of work,”
whereas “a vote for Labor will mean an
immediate start with schemes to give relief.”
The “immediate start” lias now been indefi-
nitely postponed for lack of funds.
Vic. retail butchers have been accused of
profiteering by Vic. Premier Hogan. Angliss,
M.L.C., who is in both the wholesale and
retail trade, denies the charge, and points
out that keen competition has resulted in a
number of metropolitan shops closing. Other
butchers protest that they are just able to
carry on, and charge Hogan, in turn, with
saying nothing about beef—he confined his
attack to sheep and lamb. The Premier
threatens price-fixing legislation. He knows,
of course, that a bill hasn’t a ghost of a
chance in the Uppish House after the failure
of the Necessary Commodities Act 1919-20
and of the proclamations issued under it on
the recommendation of the Fair Prices Com-
mission.
The census due in 1931 is to be postponed
till 1933 because it will cost £300,000, spread
over a number of years. It is a silly
economy. A census contains invaluable
information. The taking of it would give
a temporary job to a number of Australians
who may be worse employed if they miss the
job. It isn’t a loan-money undertaking, and
it leaves no maintenance or repair bills
behind it. And if it is omitted 1931 will
stand out for ages in statistics all the world
over as the year when this whole continent
was too stone-broke to buy itself a census.
It would be more creditable to economise
on the construction of speedways.
Hysterical British critics are asking why
Australia doesn’t do the same as Canada,
instead of performing in the fiscal arena like
a wild animal. The Commonwealth is trying
to do like Canada, and if the process appears
sudden that is because there are so many
arrears to make up in so little time. In
1927 and 1928, the last two years covered
by available British statistics, the Canadians
bought £53,000,000 worth less British mer-
chandise than our people did, and collected
an immense cheque instead of paying one.
And they were poor times for Canada. One
result of this line of conduct is that the
Canadian debt began to decrease a little
after 1923, while Australia’s liabilities have
grown by nearly 200 millions since then.
Therefore, the financial difficulties in Lon-
don left Canada fairly calm, while they found
Australia much flustered. The Scullin Gov-
ernment is really doing nothing unusual,
though circumstances compel the doing of
it in an unusual way.
Butler saved his seat from the wreck in
South Aus., but two of Ms Ministers, Hom-
burg and Jenkins,
went under, and his
party has been re-
duced to 13 members
in a House of 46.
There will be 30
Laborites, two
Cockies and a lone
Single-taxer the
first in an Austra-
lian Parliament for
many years. The
trade worked against
Butler, and so did
the illicit betting
gentry he has been
pursuing, but
the deciding
influence was
the Public
Service, an-
tagonised by
his retrench-
ment policy.
It becomes
i n creasingly
evident that
the block
vote of Gov-
ernment em-
“Well, I saved THAT.”
ployees and their womenfolk can turn out
any Ministry, and it is a bad omen for Bavin
in N. S. Wales and for the future of demo-
cracy in Australia.
A Federal Labor Conference is to con-
sider some interesting suggestions for speed-
ing up the millennium at Canberra in May.
One is that “Situations Vacant” advertise-
ments and labor bureaus should be pro-
hibited, absolute preference to be given to
financial unionists sent to the job by union
officials. It is taken for granted that the
“You get the job, Bill.”
union officials will be scrupulously honest,
and won’t charge anything for giving Bill
the billet and not Ted. They will be above
suspicion, like Mrs. Caesar and the Sydney
Labor alderman who banked his money
under a loose board.
When the Government majority is limited
it is unsafe for a Minister, or a couple of
Ministers, to be away for a day or two, unless
the Opposition will promise them pairs and
keep faith in the matter afterwards. When
the Opposition is abusive, disobliging and
unreliable, like the Slangwhang combination
in Sydney, and refuses pairs, a difficulty
arises. There is something to be said for.
the Queensland idea whereby a member who
contemplates absence may leave his voting
proxy, but not his talking proxy, behind
him. This method encourages him to shirk
his duty, but on the other hand distance, if
there is enough of it, may lend enchantment
to the view, unless the object in. view is. so
repellent that nothing can lend it anything
that will do it any good.
A preliminary trade indication for March
was that N.S.W. exports of merchandise
were £2,984,855 less than those for March,
1929. In other words, they dropped by more
than half. The loss was partly due to fall
in quantity and partly to fall in price.
Partly-manufactured wool (tops) and manu-
factured skins (leather) were a trifle better,
but the State unfortunately does little in
manufactured exports as yet.
Hollywood films are not on the list of pro-
hibited imports, nor among those surcharged
and rationed. It is a queer omission, and
it gives ill-disposed people an opportunity of
saying that the Government, in its tariff
arrangements, deliberately discriminates
against British interests and doesn’t care
how much Australian money goes over the
water to the movie millionaires untaxed. Bad
as the general situation is, the picture shows
are crowded once more, though ’ there was
a noticeable slump in attendances at Fed-
eral-election time and for two or three
months after. Interested parties assured the
Film Commission that “only” 14 p.c. of Aus-
tralian cinema-theatre takings went to the
U.S.A., but that was before, the talkies
arrived and they sacked their orchestras.
The estimate would be grotesquely false now.
The Scullinites, though shirking their pro-
mise to repeal the Transport Act, which has
put an end to the ruinous series of strikes
and hold-ups by waterside workers,. have
done their best to emasculate it. The license
system, from which Sydney alone was
exempted, was suspended. Now it has been
resolved to abolish the method laid down by
the Act of picking up “volunteer” and union
labor at separate places. Peace on the
wharves has been entirely due to the volun-
teers, who were available in plenty under
the “separate” system. The throwing of the
two sections together at the one picking-up
place pretty well ensures two things. One
is the elimination of the volunteers by
methods familiar in modern industrial dis-
putes. The other is the recrudescence of
trouble on the waterfronts of Australia.
Travelling Minister Fenton has discovered
that Australians are holding big jobs all
over the world, and seems proud of it. Isn’t
it, rather, something to be ashamed. of that
our best brains have to leave this half-
developed land to get a chance of making
good?
Next Week.—Special Anzac Number of
“The Bulletin.” Read “The Gateway.
Read the Special Verse. See the Special
Illustrations. Sixpence as Usual.
THE IRREPRESSIBLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At the Graziers’ Conference in Sydney a speaker
declared that more than half of Australia’s troubles
were hatched by soap-box orators in the Domain on
Sunday afternoons. A resolution was carried urging
that the park should be put to a different use.”
The chap who makes the welkin ring
With words that burn and flights that flay
All things that, by his reckoning,
Are not consummately O.K.
May mar the peaceful Sabbath Day
And give some worthy souls a pain,
Yet who may doubt he’s here to stay,
The bloke who yaps in the Domain?
Thrones to the dust the years may bring,
And empires crumble in decay,
But to his possie tight he’ll cling
Against fresh evils to inveigh;
Though the Millennium come our way
He’ll still be there to clank his chain,
His. pose to strike, his piece to say,
The cove who spouts in the Domain.
Here may the tyro learn to sling
The stuff that shall a Senate sway;
The Billy Hughes in embryo fling
His hot tirades with fierce display;
And many a budding Cleon bray
The demagogue’s age-old refrain.
There’s a potential M.L.A.
On every perch in the Domain.
Lords of the realm where sheep is king
Or cattle dot the rolling plain,
How profitless your murmuring!
He sings because he has to sing,
The bird who pipes in the Domain.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


SHADOW SHOWS.
The
STATE
THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Sydney achieved a new luxury theatre last
week—the Plaza. It is Hispano-Hollywood
in architectural design (period 1930), and
the auditorium is more, comfortable and rest-
fully beautiful than any that this Showman
saw in London, Paris or Rome 18 months
ago. The proprietors of movie “palaces”
seem to be developing aesthetically along the
lines of those profiteers who begin by over-
dressing their homes with ornate furniture
and irrelevant ornaments, and then replace
their monstrosities with imitations of one
of the classic models.
The Plaza was very atmospheric on Friday
night. Senoritas sang in the foyer and
acted as ushers, Caballeros chanted Spanish
serenades from open casements to the accom-
paniment of guitars, and the banners of Old
Spain hung from balconies near the low,
chastely decorated ceiling.
The feature picture “Dynamite” (Metro-
Goldwyn) is an astonishing conglomeration
of bellowdramatic rubbish and clever dialogue,
false sentiment and fine, restrained acting,
spectacular realism and ridiculously unreal
situations. In its lunatic grandiosity and
hackneyed emotional appeals it is a typical
De Mille product. The story opens with
Hagon Derks being sentenced to death for
murder. H'e stands unguarded in the body
of the court- —a large, hairy, flat-footed, snub-
nosed toiler with a phlegmatic manner which
nothing disturbs. Not even the arrival of
his little sister Katie, whose hysterical con-
duct unmans the Judge himself. Turn now
to _ Cynthia Crothers and her friends. The
existence of such people would be unbeliev-
able if it were not insisted on in so many
American films. The inhabitants of other
countries sin in undertones, so to speak;
these American plutocrats do it at the tops
of their voices. If a girl loves the husband
of one of her friends she embraces him in
the Greta Garbo manner before the members
of her country club. If a wife tires of her
husband she offers to sell him, and she and
the husband’s girl-friend argue about the
price in public. Their cocktail parties are
orgies at which every civilised rule govern-
ing the consumption of alcohol is broken.
Roger Towne’s wife wants 200,000 dollars
for him—so,ooo down. Miss Crothers is a
firm buyer, but by a clause in her grand-
father’s will she. must be married on her
twenty-third birthday or forfeit his money.
Derks has advertised the sale Of his body
after death for 10,000 dollars, the proceeds to
go to the education of his sister. What more
natural than that Cynthia should pav him
to marry her, and that a parson should per-
form the ceremony in the death chamber,
while in an adjoining cell a crooning baritone
wails to the photograph of a semi-nude lady,
and over all is heard the hammering of those
who are building the gallows for the bride-
groom? Of course, Derks is not hanged. He
plods along to
his wife’s
palace on the
day fixed for
the execution,
thinking in
his dunder-
headed, pro-
letarian way
that it is his
duty to join
her. He is so
revolted b v
the goings-on
of her friends,
who arrive to
celebrate her
acquisition of
Roger, that he
insults all pre-
sent and de-
parts. It
appears, later,
that Cynthia
cannot inherit
unless she is
living with
her husband
KAY JOHNSON, in
"Dynamite.”
on her birthday, which is at hand. So she
arrives in her racing car at Derks’s home-
village, and enters on the duties of a miner’s
wife, . This opens the way for such ancient
situations as the girl who had never sullied
her hands with work making a fool of
herself in a kitchen; the injured boy, and
the girl’s gallant dash for the only doctor
who can save him ; the village matrons’
change of heart towards one they have mis-
understood and maligned, and their arrival
en masse with a humble tribute of wayside
flowers; and the disaster in the mine, lead-
ing up to the_ abandonment of gilded vice
by the heroine in favor of an honest worker’s
love.
A grotesque story, hut it is helped out by
flawless acting and magnificent staging. The
scene in the mine, as the pit props start
to give and the coal and debris roar along
in the direction of the inmates, is a triumph
of sensationalism. Conrad Nagel has an
invidious part as Roger Towrie, but he makes
it sympathetic, and the same applies to Kay
Johnson, who plays Cynthia. She has charm
and a beautiful voice. Charles Bickford might
have been designed by Nature to represent
the dour, frowsy, hulking miner Derks; and
Julia Hayes is supremely natural as his
daughter. The world has cause to be grateful
to the talkies if only because they appear to
have exterminated the stilted stage kid of
a few years back.
# *
Novelist Edith Wharton’s “The Children”
arrived upon the screen at Melbourne State
Theatre on Saturday under the alias of “The
Marriage Playground.” This provides Para-
mount with a story which is a brilliant
change from the “cahledge” novelettes and
the back-stage romances which are its usual
pabulum. It concerns an endless series of
matrimonial mix-ups, including three divorces
and two re-marryings, and the upshot is that
Mary Brian, the heroine, finds herself, at 17,
the guardian of six bright, precocious
brothers and sisters, most of whom are the
progeny of different mothers and various
. fathers. Her falling in love and subsequent
espousing of Frederick March is merely an
attempt to inject an atmosphere of whole-
someness and hope into a domestic situation
that can only be described as tragic. Miss
Brian is in the position of a perambulating
crbche. Whenever one or other of the
mothers or fathers of her brood pauses
between one irregular sex experience and
another he or she feels the promptings of
maternity or paternity, as the case may be,
and demands a legitimate offspring on loan.
The result is these sophisticated infants are
six variants of the heroine of Henry James’s
“What Maisie Knew.” What they don’t
know would cover a postage stamp if written
large enough and their dialogue has all the
startling effectiveness of a Betty Paterson
drawing.
Mary Brian is excellent. As this pretty
lady never overpaiuts she looks as genuine
as she acts, and in this picture the photo-
grapher has obliged her by filming her
emotional passages in masterly snaps. The
background of divorced men and women seek-
ing amorous diversion amidst the scenery of
Italy is as depraved as the novelist doubtless
intended it to be. Its tired Bacchanalianism
recalls the dreary automatons of the Danse
Macabre, the satire on the modern dance of
life which Noel Coward inserted into “This
Year of Grace.”
“The Vagabond King,” screened at Sydney
Prince Edward Theatre, helps to perpetuate
the great Villon myth. Villon is the only
French poet who is widely known to the
English-speaking races, partly because Swin-
burne and Rossetti translated his verses, and
partly because Justin McCarthy wrote a
play about him. If he appeared in Sydney
in the flesh he would be dealt with under the
Consorting Act, having been a dipsomaniac,
pervert, bilker of women, pickpocket, gang-
ster and assassin. Dennis King’s represen-
tation puts a considerable strain on the
imagination in the circumstances. His
Villon is a man of action, soberer than most
Judges, in hard condition, and a brave and
fair fighter.
The opening scenes show him amongst
his associates of the Paris underworld. In
a later set Katherine de Vaucelles is dis-
closed attending to her religious duties in
what may be the Lady Chapel at Notre Dame ;
the programme, in accordance with the aggra-
vating talkie convention, is silent on the
point. (There are 55 elaborate sets in this
picture, and not one of them is labelled.)
As she wanders back to her royal home inex-
plicably unattended (assuming she has been
at Notre Dame, it would be nearly three
miles away), ruffians spring on her. Villon,
who has been observing her adoringly, springs
on the ruffians. Love is born. The King,
while drinking incognito at an inn, meets
Villon, and makes the well-known bargain ;
the vagabond may be a real king for a day
if he will agree to be hanged on the morrow.
The Burgundians are at the gates of Paris.
The temporary monarch declares his love for
Katherine, and leads a victorious army of
outcasts against the enemy.
He is. to be hanged unless someone offers
to die in his place. No one does. Then
Katherine, unchaperoned and with her golden
hair hanging down her back, as usual, makes
the required offer in a strong American
accent. The King observes that if there is
a hanging he may lose his throne, while
if there isn’t Villon may be king, and com-
promises by blessing the union of the lovers.
The only part of this romantic tale Which
has the sanction of history is the poet’s last-
minute reprieve. He was saved from a well-
earned end on the gallows more than once.
The whole show is in technicolor, a pro-
cess which is still far from perfection. The
JEANETTE MACDONALD
in. “The Vagabond King.”
greens, pinks
and yellows
blend after the
manner of a
tropical sun-
set. It is only
effective in the
sense of pro-
ducing an illu-
sion of riotous
life in one
scene the
mag nificently
organised
panorama in
which the
v a g a b onds
surge through
the gates of
Paris under
Villon’s leader-
ship to tackle
the city’s ene-
m i e s. The
sound - regis-
tration is
splendid, more
e s p e cially
when Dennis King and the Austra-
lian. O. P. Heggie are speaking. Ileggie’s
Louis XI. bears no resemblance to the por-
traits of the eminent religious maniac; with
a top-hat substituted for the image-decked
cap of tradition he would make a feasible
captain of commerce. However, his sinister
leering, crouching and eye-work are sound,
and very much in the picture. Jeanette
MacDonald looks lovely as Katherine,
and her singing voice is sweet and well-
produced, but she is not a lady of the
cinquacento—merely a nice girl from Holly-
wood.
“SO MANY MEN, SO MANY GODS!”


<3
V
In terms of
owner satisfaction
Oldsmobile ranks as
the truly satisfying car
TT has been said that he, who
A in ownership finds complete
satisfaction, is the best salesman
of a product. And no greater
proof of that statement could
be found than in the good
opinion which Oldsmobile
owners have of this car of their
choice.
To appreciate Oldsmobile, to
understand Oldsmobile as it
merits understanding, listen to
an owner's selling talk—selling
talk that only an owner could
give.
"It's a wonder how you can
turn out such a high-class car at
such a low price" . . . thus one
owner sums up Oldsmobile
value.
“The Olds is such a.splen-
did puller" . . . “the way she
It's a General Motors car
■look inside and note
the difference /
i
W
WggftK
P
.
sSSg
m
ir:
Wit
\\
i\/\ L . .'I
gmwm
BTj.
?A«
LDSMOBILE
Serving Thousands of Satisfied Owners
took the hills was a revelation”
. ♦ ♦ . there's the performance
story from enthusiastic owner-
ship. Now for appearance and
finish—“lt is truly a de luxe
car.” ... “I was at once im-
pressed with its sturdy but
sound appearance.”
What these owners are en-
joying you can experience to-
day—to-morrow—any time you
will. Phone your nearest Olds-
mobile dealer for a demonstration.
Ask him about the Service
facilities that the owner enjoys.
Ask also, if you so desire, of
the G.M.A.C. terms plan that
enables you to enjoy Oldsmobile
ownership at a reasonable cost.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL
DEALER.
GENERAL MOTORS (Australia) Pty. Ltd. Brisba.net Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth*


When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
&
H O
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherntel ”
Bed
and
° re akfast
Tariff
lf desired
Accommodation
160.
Central,
Comfortable,
Convenient,
oMts. G.P.O.
Excellent
Cuisine,
Billiards,
Canons'
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TARIFF:
Weekly,
£3/3/- to
£4/4/-
Daily,
11/6 to 12/6.
Room & B’fast,
8/6 to 9/6
FL2034
F 3575
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
The World’s largest Commercial Forestry Co.
Subscribed Share Capital £240,619
Bonds Subscribed exceed £3,400,000
Funds lodged with Trustees exceed £450,000
(Including over £250,000 invested in Australian Government Securities.)
Area planted Approx. 120,000 acres
Bankers Bank of New Zealand and their Agents
Head Office Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney
Sole Brokers Smith Wylie & Co., Ltd.
Branches: Throughout Australia, New Zealand and the Federated Malay States. London, Bombav
Java, Hong Kong and Shanghai.
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
5!
n
n
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
TARIFF—PER DAY, Room and Meals, 257-
Room and Breakfast, 15/-
Melbourne Telephone: F 4141.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Of the .many colleagues Isaacs, the new
C.J., had in the four Vic. Cabinets of which
he was a member from 1893 to 1901, only
five are above ground to congratulate him—
Peacock, Agar Wynne. Bob Best, 11. R.
Williams and Bob McGregor. The first is
the only one of the five now in Parliament.
The three Premiers under whom the C.J.
served in the four Ministries were J. B.
Patterson, George Turner and Peacock.
Veterans fared ill at the recent State elec-
tions, and two Assemblies will have to find
new “Fathers.” In S. Aus. the casualties
included F. W. Coneybeer, who was first
F. H. TOUT, who was last week elected
president of the N.S.W. Graziers’
Association for the third year in suc-
cession. His own 15,000 or 80 sheep
grow fat at Wambanumba, outside
Young.
elected for East Torrens in 1893, and had
been in Parliament with a single three-years’
interval ever since. In Westralia Geoi’ge
(“Mulga”) Taylor, who held a mulgaland
seat, of which the boundaries were ever
widening, from 1900 to this year, when it
disappeared altogether, made an unsuccessful
appeal to a metropolitan constituency. Both
men were ex-Speakers.
The worse misfit in the Discovery crew
from a physical point of . view was the
leader. Mawson stands six feet three inches
in his socks, and there are few places in
the 350-ton barquentine except the deck
with more than five feet eight of headroom.
Mawson astonished his assistants, by his
titanic energy. In his first expeditions he
showed himself a great organiser but a
somewhat frigid companion. In the last he
radiated good fellowship. After ordering a
job to be done he usually ended by doing half
of it himself. A contrast was provided by
another scientific member who never tumbled
to the fact that with a creAv of only 11 men
the savants were expected to lay on to a<
rope along with' the next man. It will
probably be his last exploring expedition in
consequence.
James Cornell, the Westralian M.L.C. who
goes up for re-election next month and who
has been complain-
ing that the Col-
li e r Government
extended the date
of nomination to
enable his Labor
opponent to pass
his 30th birthday
—that being the
statutory age for a
Leg. Council can-
didate —started his
political career as
a husky Laborite,
and a rough dia-
mond at that, 18
years ago. Two of
the remarks with
which he enriched
“Hansard” in his
first year of mem-
bership were
quoted for years on
the goldfields. One
was in defence of
the baby-bonus sys-
tem —“the highest
lady in the land
can come and draw
the money, and no
questions asked.”
The second was in
a plea for the more
sympathetic treat-
me n t of minor
offenders against
the law. “What a
drunk really needs,”
quoth the . new
M.L.C. earnestly,
“is nourishment.”
Cornell, who was
an ex-union secre-
tary at Boulder,
left the party over
the conscription
business, and sub-
sequently saw ser-
vi c e in France
with the engineer-
ing corps. Since
then he has risen
to be chairman of
FRANK
BRENNAN,
Attorney-General,
who is to be Aus-
tralia’s principal repre-
sentative at the forth-
coming League of
Nations Assembly at
Geneva.
committees in the Westralian Upper House.
The two pilots who accompanied the
Mawson expedition were S. C. Campbell, who
graduated as an engineer from Sydney Uni-
versity, and E. Douglas. Douglas was
mechanic with Eaton when that aviator
went in search of and recovered the bodies
of Anderson • and Hitchcock. The Gypsy
Moth did valuable reconnaisance work in the
Antarctic.
Commander Moyes, who attended to the
surveying on the Discovery’s latest Antarctic
expedition, is S. Australian born, and was
educated at St. Peter’s College. This is
his third trip with Mawson. When that
explorer was making up his crew in Sydney
for his first adventure, Moyes was recovering
from dengue in North Queensland. He landed
a sick man in Sydney, but Mawson took him
on without sending him to a doctor, know-
ing that his man had been for years one of
S. Australians leading athletes. Moyes has
dragged sledges TOO I miles over the Antarctic
floes. As an instruction officer at the
Flinders Naval Base he had seen aeroplanes
all around him, but he had never been up
in one until he took a flight over frozen
Enderby Land.
Maoriland’s new Gov.-General, besides
bringing his brother, Major Bathurst, as mili-
tary secretary, has another relative on his
staff as A.D.,C. This is Sir John Ludlow
Hanham, 10th baronet of the line and a
nephew of Lord Bledisloe’.s first wife. Sir
John is 32. He served with the Grenadier
Guards in the war, and was subsequently
called to the Bar. Incidentally, he is a
keen botanist who will find among M.L.’s
mountain plants a rich field for his re-
searches.
Archbishop Redwood, of Wellington
(M.L.), has just kept his ninety-first birth-
day. The oldest R.C. prelate of episcopal
rank in the world, he was born in Stafford-
shire in 1839, and came with his parents to
the Shivery Isles three years later. He was
consecrated Bishop of Wellington 56 years
ago and raised to the higher grade in 1887.
Francis Davison, of Mt. Gambier (S.A.),
Australia’s oldest practising barrister and
solicitor, kept his 91st birthday on April
11. He arrived at Adelaide as a child in
1839, was admitted to the Bar in 1862, and
has practised in the Blue Lake town since
1868.
F. H. Snow, dead in Adelaide at 75, was
a Yorksliireman who came to Australia long
ago and built up a big business in metals,
from Broken Hill and elsewhere. At the
start of the war his efforts to save that busi-
ness from ruin brought on him a vindictive
trial for alleged Trading with the Enemy.
But that bitterness has long passed away;
a son carries on the business, and “Snow’s
garden,” in the Adelaide hills, is famous even
among the gardens of that region, and always
at the service of charitable functions.
Mrs. Frank Brennan accompanies her hus-
band, the Federal Attorney-General, to
Geneva and London. Should the lady cross
St. George’s Channel she may rely on a
cordial reception in Ireland, for the sake of
her late dad, Dr. O’Donnell. For years the
doctor was &*t the head of every Home Rule
movement in Melb., and he threw into the
work the earnestness and enthusiasm of half
a dozen men.
Dave Oman, who was in Vic. Assembly
from 1900 to 1927 and held office in three
Governments during the war and post-war
years, passed out last week. He was a
typically sturdy rural member, and a better
Minister for Lands and Agriculture than
most. As chairman of Vic. Wheat Commis-
sion during the pool period, he displayed
marked shrewdness and business ability.
He was harder hit than he ever admitted
when he was beaten for Hampden three years
ago by Laborite Hughes, but he got even by
standing down and backing T. O. Manifold
against Hughes on Nov. 30 last.
The oldest inhabitant of Maoriland, Mrs.
Elizabeth Rore, died at Blenheim the other
day in possession of a birth certificate that
proclaimed her to be the daughter of Captain
Blenkinsopp, skipper of a whaler, her mother
being a wahine of the tribe of Te Rauparaha,
The date of the document was 1823. Her
dad was one of the bold, bad men who
claimed to have bought thousands of square
miles of land from the Maoris. In Blenkin-
sopp’s case the consideration was one cannon,
very obsolete even for 1823, and useless be-
cause it had been spiked with a plug driven
hard into the touch-hole and filed off short,
so that Maori engineering skill was unequal
to the task of removing it. Te Rauparaha
repudiated the sale, and in the heat of the
subsequent controversy massacred some white
citizens who had squatted on the property
known as the Wairau Plains, thus preci-
pitating the first war between Maori and
pakeha. This was in 1843, when Mrs. Rore
was safely married and Blenkinsopp w r as
away enjoying the society of sperm whales.
She lived happily ever after, and one of her
sons became a well-known owner and trainer
of racehorses.
Bert Dale, sec. of the Vic.-Riverina branch
of the A.W.U., knows every shearing-shed
between' Jlass's Strait and the Murrumbidgee.
He peeled his first sheep 30 years ago and
has been an active member of the union
BERT DALE.
ever since. Like most of the A.W.U. men,
he is a good Australian—a heavyweight
physically and a heavyweight politically
against the Red element in union councils.
J. Hewit, of Malvern, provided the horti-
cultural sensation of Garden Week at
Wirths’ Olympia in Melbourne by producing
a “new” variety of apple which is 50 years
old. The original tree floui’ished in the
garden of the Hopton family outside Gee-
long. When the household broke up, Hewit’s
grandfather, an old retainer, removed a seed-
ling to Malvern. As far as is known, _it
is the only tree of its kind in Australia.
E. E. Pescott, the Government pomolog'ist,
pronounces it a magnificent specimen.
Rev. Hugh Black,
the histrionic
Scotchby terian
minister who has
come from N’York
to Scots Church,
Melbourne, li a s
affiliations with the
southern city: his
brother was a tem-
porary pilot in
Melbourne some
years ago. Hugh
may not be quite
so brilliant a
speaker as his
brother, but to level
things up he is the
author of many
works which have
had a vast circu-
lation amongst the
faithful in the
States.
“A von”: The
two best sleuths
the M.L. police
ever boasted were
—and are—Reg
Ward and Tom
Dr. BLACK, of
U.S.A. and
Collins-street.
Gibson. They stayed in the game be-
cause they liked it—outside the Inky
Way, which offers more variety but less
risks, detecting is the least monotonous
of all legitimate occupations. Gibson suc-
ceeded in it because he could see all round
his head at times when even the most sus-
picious of crooks might have been forgiven
for thinking that he was falling asleep
through sheer ennui; and Ward managed to
camouflage a sharp nose and an alert air by
looking like a racecourse tout. Both have
been “chief detectives” in charge of metro-
politan detective offices, but the pay is so
absurdly small that Gibson found it finan-
cially advantageous to get back to uniform
and become senior sergeant in a small town.
Now both have been gazetted as sub-inspec-
tors, and will carry on the detecting busi-
ness in cities at less pay than a good im-
porter gives to his chief clerk.
Syd Hocking, chief proprietor of the “Kal-
goorlie .Miner,” who goes to London and
the Empire Press Conference, has put
in 37 years on the goldfields, and before
that was churning out “copy” at Adel-
aide and Broken Hill. Syd and two of
his brothers began by starting papers at
Coolgardie; when the Old Camp showed signs
of petering out they moved on to Hannans.
Another brother, Martin, who stayed in Adel-
aide, was one of the best-known sporting
writers on the daily press of the Holy City till
his death a few yea*rs ago. Syd himself was
always strongest on the managing side of a
newspaper, although he occasionally did some
mining reporting as a side-line. The “Miner”
was a regular goldmine for the family for
its first 20 years, and stalled off all opposi-
tion. Its proprietor, who was born in Adel-
aide 70 _ years ago, was twice Mayor of
Kalgoorlie in the pre-wa<r days.
Louie Quay, a Chinaman who departed
this life at Barcaldine the other day, was
one of Central Queensland’s institutions.
The old gentleman—for he was all that,
though but a Cantonese coolie born—had
kept a vegetable garden on Lagoon Creek
from a time whereof the memory of the
oldest inhabitant ran not to the contrary.
He claimed to be over a hundred, and as he
told of arriving in the Cooktown district when
17 in 1545, and of prospecting there before
the white miners touched the country, it
may be he was speaking the truth. He was
undoubtedly one of the first Chinese on the
Palmer in the early ’seventies. His 'Cauca-
sian friends were legion.
A fine type of churchman was the late
Graham Balfour, Presbyterian minister at
Carlton (Vic.), who passed out the other
day. He was a son of James Balfour, Yic.
M.L.A. from 1866 to 1870 and M.L.C. for
40 years from 1874. James Balfour was
recognised as the leader of the Sabbatarian
party, and his earnestness and courtesy won
him universal regard. The same may be said
of his son.
Baden-Powell, now a hereditary legislator,
who is to spend some of his 73rd year look-
ing over Australia’s Boy Scouts, dropped
into the army by pure accident. When he
left Charterhouse he was going up to Oxford
to qualify for a civilian career. Having time
to spare, h'e was bemoaning his boredom when
someone suggested he should sit for the pend-
ing army exams, to occupy his mind. This he
did, passing out second on a list of 700 can-
didates. As this carried the privilege of
having his commission antedated by two
years—an important matter in those hide-
bound days of seniority—B.P. took on the
new job.
WITH MAWSON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Far down south, where the devil-winds blow,
Away down south, where the clouds race low,
Ice-blink and snow-blink dim the horizon,
And there’s nothing else but sea-foam to rest
the weary eyes on.
There with Mawson went his hard-bitten
crew,
Working at a job that only men can do.
Some of them are sea-bred, and some of them
are not;
Some come from cold lands, and some como
from hot;
Lads from the lecture-room and boys from
the bench,
And others that have struggled in the blood-
stained trench!
Big man, small man, tender-foot or tough,
But ev’ry one a tradesman , and that’s good
enough.
iway down south, where the great waves
roll,
Driving with the icebergs that reel round
the Pole ;
Swinging up aloft upon the royal-yardarm,
Nice work for any lad reared on a farm!
From Aberdeen, Melbourne, London or
Quebec,
They’re all good sailormen, when Mawson’s
on deck!
Far down south, where the big seas crash,
They didn’t work for glory, and they didn’t
work for cash!
They never went slow, and they never got
slack,
And there wasn’t any sidling when they all
came hack!
“Some of it was hard graft, and some of it
was play;
We just went with Mawson.” Ajid that’s all
they say.
S.A.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Bildad”: Henry Fox, who has been
making a sensation in England, differed in
some ways from the everyday homicide. He
murdered his mother, which is a rare crime.
Nero did it in 59. and Alice Holt, at Chester
(England), in 1863, but matricides are very
far apart, and grandmothericides even more
so, while parricides are only occasional. A
brisk business is done in wives, concubines,
girls that the defendants were engaged to
(being a defendant’s fiancee is especially
dangerous), sons and daughters, mothers-in-
law, policemen and the general public. Now
and then there is a run on husbands, mostly
by poison, and a steady but languid trade
exists in uncles and benefactors. Sometimes,
as in the case of the bewhiskered Dr. Prit-
chard, the wife and mother-in-law are killed
together. In a manner of speaking, Fox
slew his mother for her money, but the lady
had no money. The only asset involved was
an accident policy, which is cheaper than a
life policy, and as a matter of dire and
necessary economy it was such a cheap and
short-dated document that the fatal occur-
rence had to happen almost immediately. It
took place with some minutes to spare. The
event came off in a hash-tower at a cheap
watering-place, because funds didn’t run to
a private residence (Henry had always been
a shiftless party), and the hash was in
arrears. As a final touch of untidiness Mr.
Fox was due as co-re. in a divorce suit, the
respondent being a sportive Australian dame,
but being unavoidably detained in the con-
demned cell he failed to appear. Except in
making an end of the old lady he failed in
most things, and to judge by the number of
accident policies he took out he made several
false starts at that.
■!* * * *
“Clarence Cafeteria”: The cost of living
has gone down in Melbourne, at any rate, in
the gustatory department. It is now possible
to get an excellent three-course meal, with
coffee or tea thrown in, almost anywhere
for two shillings, »nd in the Italian and
Greek restaurants a bottle of wine in
addition. For those who can dispense with
the luxury of a seat, many hotels provide
counter luncheons, which are steadily grow-
ing in bulk and quality. One hostelry pro-
vides a dish of excellent curry, with a
small glass of beer to wash it down, for
fivepence.
* * * *
“Venena”: The cleared-up poisoning mys-
tery at Conjola (N.S.W.) is unlikely to be
forgotten by defending counsel for many a
long year in cases where the administration
of arsenic forms the ground of a murder
charge. Two elderly brothers and a sister
slightly younger were all taken to hospital
suffering from arsenical poisoning in an
advanced stage. A farmhand was also
affected. When all medical doubts about the
nature of the poison had been resolved, detec-
tives got busy. They interviewed, besides the
patients themselves, hundreds of people in
the district, but could find no suggestion of
a motive for crime. The household seemed
to have had no enemies, or anyone who stood
to gain by the death of all or any of them.
Then the possibility of arsenic being inhaled
from wall-paper and various other theories
were investigated, all to no purpose. The
real explanation, not discovered until last
week, was of the simplest. The sister had
bought some white-ant exterminator, and it
lay on a shelf in a tin similar to those in
which pepper is sold. She went away for
a holiday, and one of the brothers unwit-
tingly filled up the pepper-pot with the deadly
stuff, and embarked everyone who used it
on a course of slow poisoning. But suppose
someone had been located with a grudge
against the family, someone who had even
threatened them, someone with arsenic in his
possession or with access to it—how hard
such a man might have found it to clear him-
self ! Is it any wonder that juries shrink
from conviction in poisoning cases?
“C.Q.”: One of the lighter moments of
the Vic. No-license campaign was provided
by a Salv’army contingent which held a rally
on the beach near Brighton on the eve
of the ballot. After a prayer on behalf of
the Prohibition party, the band struck up a
hymn on the same topic. The tune that
floated over the sparse attendance was
“Drink to Me Only With Thine Eyes.”
■f * *
“Penfield”: Kerfew had occasion to go
into the country, and while rounding a quiet
corner on two wheels had the bad luck to
lob into a flock of turkeys. Had the four
wheels been on the ground more damage
might have been done ; as it was, only one
bird suffered —it had its legs broken. Kerfew
put it out of its misery and then called at
the farmhouse a hundred yards on to con-
fess and pay. “I’m sorry,” he said, “I ran
into the turkeys outside your place and
killed one of them —a hen. Here’s ten shil-
lings and we won’t say any more about it.”
“That’s all right, sir,” said the good-tempered
woman—“accidents will happen.” So Ker-
few put the plump carcase in the car and
went on. They thoroughly enjoyed the tur-
key ; it was the best, Mrs. Kerfew said, that
had ever come into her kitchen; and when,
a month later, Kerfew had to revisit those
parts, naturally his wife asked him to bring
back another bird. Quite agreeable. Kerfew
stopped outside the farm gate, and, knocking
up the good-natured woman, reminded her
of his previous call. “This time,” he said,
SHE WAS MARRIED TO ONE.
CANVASSER: “The very latest flexible absorbent mop”-
LADY: “Nothing doing, young man. I’m just getting mine’s tea ready now.”
“I want you to sell me one of the same
turkeys.” “Oh, I couldn’t do that," replied
the lady. “You see, they are not mine!”
* * * *
“Chancery Square”: Some queer things are
happening to beneficiaries under wills these
times, and I do hope my friend the ex-Chief
Justice won’t have to go horse-training or
bill-posting. One man whose estate was
mostly tin shades, with a bit in Broken Hill
and another crumb in oil, left various friends
and relations something definite to remember
him by, the balance to go to his wife and
children. There has been such a crash in
everything he had his money in that, instead
of leaving £50,000 to his wife and children,
thei’e would be scarcely a bean for them
if the bequests were paid in full; and time
is liable to be still less when the lawyers
have finished arguing about it. The most
distressing part of the business, so far as
these hungry beneficiaries are concerned, .is
that probate was charged on the fair market
value at the time of the owner’s death. It
looks as though, between them, Common-
wealth and State will get about as much as
the beneficiaries.
* * * *
“Clement R, d’Uppe”: The police having
located a quantity of stolen property, planted
in a public park, set a watch on the locality,
the job being assigned to a constable who
was addicted to rum. About midnight the
plain-clothes officer in charge of the matter
went along to see if the thief had turned up
to retrieve his treasure. He found that the
loot had disappeared and that the constable
was coiled up under a tree in the profoundest
of slumbers. “Wake up, you stupid fool!”
he yelled, bringing the sleeping sentinel to
consciousness with the toe-cap of a number
ten. “While you’ve been sleeping on the
job' the stuff’s gone.” The constable gave
him a withering glance. “Stupid fool your-
self!” he said witheringly. “I’ve been using
it as a pillow.”
* * * *
“A.H.S.”: A dirty one was put over a
Melbourne cabdriver last week. A smartly
dressed chap carrying a brown-paper parcel
hailed the cab in Flinders-street, and asked
to be driven to a shop in Bourke-street.
Still carrying the parcel, he entered the shop
to reappear a few minutes later holding a
fiver. Could the driver oblige him with
five singles? The shop was short of change,
The driver couldn’t, so the fare borrowed
five shillings from him in order to make the
purchase, giving the cabby the parcel to
mind and telling him to look after it very
carefully, as it was valuable. Two hours
later the cabby was still waiting, and after
a fruitless search of the shop he decided to
open the parcel. It contained an old boot in
a cardboard box.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The Mormon Church, once
anathema throughout Christendom, has
settled down to a respectable middle ago,
and the convention now being held in Mel-
bourne to celebrate the centenary is being
attended mainly by Australians of social
and commercial tonnage, undistinguishable
from any other synod or congress. The
usual assurance that the Latter Day Saints
no longer maintain the institution of poly-
gamy, was reiterated by the president. As
a matter of fact, the system is still a
Mormon tenet, but its practice is evaded by
confining the right to effect plural marriages
exclusively to the president of the church
in Utah, who never exercises it. The Aus-
tralian Mormons barely exceed 1500 persons,
but it is a wealthy little corporation, anu,
like the Christian Science Church, doesn t
encourage proselytising except amongst t no
wealthy. In the home State 75 p.c. or tin
half-million inhabitants are Mormons, and
by a provision making a contribution
obligatory on death the church is steadily
acquiring all the property.
* * * *
“Murkah”: The failure of Australian
official radio every time real efficiency is
called for is discreditable. When Smith and
Shiers got lost near Wyndham (W.A.) men
distress-call reached Wyndham radio at noon
on Saturday. This station is dependent on the
land-line for communication; under daylight
conditions the obsolete spark on tap, though
backed by five kilowatts (7 h.p.), has never
reached even its nearest neighbor at Darwin,
As the land-line was down the station was
dumb! But Don Knock, at Wyndham meat-
works, who has an efficient C.W. set, inter -
cepted the message, and, using less energy
than is required by an electric motor-horn,
retransmitted it. Official radio then failed
at the receiving end. Luckily a Sydney
amateur, J. Pike, heard the retransmission,
acknowledged it, and ’phoned Shell Oil, the
interested co. three minutes later. The first
dispatch, via official radio and Government
telegraph, staggered into Sydney telegraph
operating room late Sunday afternoon!
* * *
“Bungle”: It was the first day in tram-
ing camp, and porridge was served out to
all hands. It wasn’t till all hands had
finished that it was discovered it had been
made of bran. The Adjutant, who was not
of Scotch extraction, was seriously perturbed,
“Good God!” he said, “those poor devils of
horses must have got the oatmeal!”
* * * *
“Centurion” : The lamented death of the
Empress Judith of Abyssinia recalls how
much the Empire and the Allies owe the
descendants of King Solomon and the Queen
of Sheba. Well on in the war, the British
forces in Palestine and Egypt were tremen-
dously heartened by the arrival of an Abys-
sinian army at Port Said. It numbered
about 200, and every man carried a different
type of rifle. HI. Highness’s troops were
established in a barbed-wire compound after
their arms had been tactfully taken over for
inspection and repairs. In answer to indig-
nant inquiries as to why they were not at
once dispatched to the front, it was pointed
out that such a course would inevitably
lead to the instant surrender of the whole
enemy line, from Jerusalem to Kiel, a con-
summation not just then desired by G.H.Q.
for baksheesh reasons. This last being an
argument which appeals to every Abyssi-
nian, the sooty crusaders gave little more
trouble until time came for them to go
home.
* * * *
“Fernie”: I cherish a recollection of a
visit to the late Bishop Grimes, of Christ-
church (M.L.). The floors of the presbytery
were wax-polished, and stepping into the
sanctum I slipped on the mat and had a
struggle to regain my balance. I apologised
for my strange behavior, and mentioned the
cause. The bishop, who had seated himself,
looked at me with a twinkle in his eye.
“ ‘The wicked,’ ” quoth he, “ ‘stand in slip-
pery places.’ I’ve often come to grief myself
on that mat, and I take it that’s a good
sign.”
* * * *
“Chev”: A Melbourne driver has estab-
flshed a remarkable sequence of accidents,
j n the morning his car turned turtle, inflict-
jn g cu ts on the owner’s head. A few hours
inter he was driving a horse-drawn lorry,
the load fell over on him, and he paid his
sec ond visit to the public hospital for the
day.
Next Week.— Special Anzac Number of
..-p. Bulletin.” Read “The Gateway.”
, w e .1 c ■ i
Read the Special Verse. See the Special
Illustrations. Sixpence as Usual.
THE COLLINS-STREET CAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In a sumptuous window, stretched out on a
mat,
Half awake, half asleep, lies the Collins-
street Cat.
She dreams and she dozes behind the plate-
glass,
And watches the hundreds of people that
pass ;
The anxious, the happy, the doubtful, the
sure,
The truculent rich and the fatuous poor.
She notes the young maiden who steers the
young man
To the place where you buy on the hire-
purchase plan.
“Great Mousers! Now, what do you know
about that?
She’s got him at last!” says the Collins-
street Cat.
She notes the drawn face of the girl on the
kerb,
With her poor frightened eyes upon Percy
or ’Erb,
And the look of contempt that she gets
from her “boy.”
Ye gods! And they call her a “daughter of
joy!”
She smiles at the lady of seventeen stone,
Who pants, as she goes, with an ill-sup-
pressed groan:
“I’ve took thyroid extract for over a year,
An’ I’m puttin’ it on worse than ever, my
dear I”
“Thank Isis and Horus I never grew fat.
My oath, Kate ! Too right!” says the Collins-
street Cat.
She sees the Old Beau who goes “doing the
Block,”
With his eyeglass and cane, at about four
o’clock.
If you stop him he’ll talk of Pall Mall and
Mayfair,
Though his club-mates will tell you he’s
never been there !
And she watches each day for the juvenile
“Gran,”
Whose charming back view would attract any
man ;
For, in these days, you don’t need to have
any waist,
And, for legs—well, of course, that’s a
matter of taste.
But turn her around, and look under her
hat—
“ Well, Gawd spare me days !” says the Col-
lins-street Cat.
And so they move past her, the pert and
the coy;
The mischievous chit and the hobble-de-hoy;
The opulent snob and the underpaid clerk,
And the folk that should only go out after
dark!
EVERYTHING IN ORDER.
“They tell me she’s fearfully methodiml about everything."
“Oh. quite. It was she who started the idea of having the alimony fixed before the
wedding.”
The sad and the sorry, the glad and the gay!
All passing along to the end of their way.
“And they all of them seem to be chasing
their tails,
Like a pack of mad kittens, and ev’ry one
fails” —
And she stretches and yawns and coils up
on her mat —
“They’re a curious crowd!” says the Collins-
street Cat.
S.A.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.


“Cap’n Flint”: When not chasing speed
records on ocean beaches, Malcolm Campbell
is addicted to seeking hidden treasure in
similar localities. He will shortly lead his
second expedition to Cocos Island, some
600 miles s.-w. of Panama, where a ship-
load of ecclesiastical plate arid jewels is
supposed to have been hidden when Peru
revolted against Spanish rule. Spain was
to have been the destination of the precious
cargo, but, according to the story, the skip-
per and crew stowed it on Cocos. Dozens
of expeditions-have attempted to locate it;
one, led by Earl Fitzwilliam, included several
Australians, having called at Sydney on
the voyage to Cocos. That venture ended
in disaster, due, it was whispered, to an
accident with explosives; but details were
never published.
* * $ *
“Oakabella”: I have talked to men in
Westralia in the ’nineties who would frankly
admit, when you got to know them a little,
that they had become colonists under com-
pulsion. Decent enough citizens many, per-
haps most, of them in the main, but what
always struck me was that every ex-convict
liked you to infer that he had been “sent out”
for some trivial offence like poaching the
squire’s rabbits. A curious light is thrown
on this pleasant make-believe in Battye’s
“History.” It is there disclosed that in 1861
the Westralian Leg. Council complained to
the Imperial Government that the supply
of convicts wasn’t being adequately main-
tained. The reply was that a difficulty was
created by the limited number of men in the
MUST HAVE IT IN LATIN.
DOCTOR: “To he quite candid with you, your only trouble is laziness.”
PATIENT: “Yes, Doc., I know. But what’s the scientific name for it? — I’ve got to
report to the wife!”
U.K. who were being sentenced to periods of
imprisonment sufficiently lengthy to admit of
transportation. The fact is, of course, that
the penal laws of Britain had become very
different in the ’sixties from what they were
when Marcus Clarke wrote “His Natural
Life.”
* * * *
“Milly Soak”: The vagaries of Piet Jor-
gensen, a Dane, a tentmaker and (unlike
Omar) a rather stern moralist, furnished a
Murchison (W.A.) township with abundant
material for hilarity in the roaring ’nineties.
Piet didn’t mind having a drink or two with
any customer who bought a few water-bags,
but he held strong views on the subject ot
woman’s place being in the home and her
stimulants non-alcoholic ones. Mrs. Pißt>
a large, sociable woman, had a taste fox*
gin, and Piet determined to read her a
lesson. So it came that one night when he
returned to his domestic nest to find the tea-
table unlaid and the housewife fast asleep
and breathing stertorously, he promptly
SHE KNEW WHAT WAS EXPECTED.
BRIDE (on her honeymoon ): “Darling, don’t for get to send a wireless to mother telling her what a lovely time we’re having."
bundled her into a wheelbarrow and trundled
her, still lost in muzzy dreams, to the police'
station. A burly sergeant came to the door
at Piet’s knock and looked all sorts of in-
quiries, but the Dane simply pointed to the
wheelbarrow, remarked “Ach” gutturally,
and faded away, leaving the rest to the Law.
The lady wasn’t charged; and it was rumored
that Piet himself presently returned and
wheeled her home. But she never offended
again.
# * * *
“Piecrust” : The mania for goldfish in the
home came to a head in Melbourne when the
Scotland Maru berthed after a voyage from
Japan. Japanese as well as Chinese sailors
are sometimes seen selling the finny pets in
the streets, and somehow the rumor had
spread that this particular boat carried a
large consignment. A mob of men, women and
children, armed with bottles, ja*rs, kerosene-
tins and jam-jars, was waiting on the wharf,
and it rushed the boat as soon as the gang-
ways were down. The bewildered crew found
themselves trying to answer a dozen women
at once, and it was with difficulty that the
invaders were convinced that there was not
so much as a golden scale on board. The
dock police had to be requisitioned to evict
the last stragglers.
“M.G.S.”: The task of The Bulletin
novel competition judges was a bagatelle
compared with the job of adjudicating in the
verse-making contest in Japan, which breaks
irito frenzy every spring. This year there
were 34,769 entrants, 131 of whom wrote in
Braille. The subject was “Rocks on the
Seashore,” and a bare 35 syllables was the
allowance per poet. The winning poem is
always read at an “Imperial Poetry Party”
which is attended by the Emperor, the
Empress and most of the blood royal, several
of whom usually compete. This was the
Emperor’s effort: —
Like sentinels bold they grimly stand
Though tempests howl and breakers roar;
They scorn the buffets of wind and wave
Those grim, gaunt rocks of our native shore.
It is charitable to suppose that the full flavor
of the Japanese cannot be carried over into
English, for in translation the Sun God’s
burst of inspiration would hardly qualify for
the first step on the stairs that lead to the
Immortals.
sjs •-!: * *
“Sixenate”: In a Hobart divorce case the
intervention of the Crown led to rescission
of a decree nisi on proof of suppression of
material facts. The petitioner, a. lady,
claimed desertion since 1924, but it was
shown that the respondent had lived in her
flat for a time in 1929. Her excuse that
he was ill, and she gave him shelter and
attention, was brushed aside. This is a
stern lesson that it doesn’t pay to be dis-
honest in the Divorce Court —that is, it
doesn’t pay in about one case out of a
thousand.
* * * *
“R.V.”: The Discovery, now berthed in
Melbourne, carries s< short-wave wireless
which was made in Melbourne. The operator,
A. J. Williams, regularly picked up 3LO
concert items when the ship was at Ker-
guelen, and on occasions he got Rugby.
❖ i]i ❖
“X.S.”: A blacktracker, Combo George,
appeared in a new rble in a Melbourne
court recently. He was charged with house-
breaking. The jury brought in a verdict
of guilty, but with the usual magnanimity
of white folk towards black —when sexual
or cattle-lifting offences are not involved—
added a recommendation for mercy, until
the Judge pointed out that this was George’s
twenty-second conviction. That the erring
black brother lacked the discrimination of
the professional burglar was shown by the
articles he stole —chiefly scent bottles and
strings of beads.
* * * *
“Eoto”: A South Aus. prohibition spouter
secured partial immunity from heckling by
promising to answer questions at the end
of his address; nevertheless, persistent in-
terruptions came in a squeaky voice. “Will
that boy keep quiet?” he shouted. At the
allotted time for questions “Squeaky” re-
vealed himself as a man of mature years.
“I want to know why you called me a boy?”
he demanded. “If I’m not a man what am
I?” A lad in a back seat readily supplied
the answer: “A fool, ‘Squeak.’ Sit down !”
❖ ❖ ❖ H*
“Shep”: In the Canadian hospital we
were in at Boulogne one of the Easter fes-
tivities was a staff ball in the officers’ mess.
Convalescent officers from the wards were
invited, and full privates and the like were
also at liberty to view portion of it from
the ward windows. It was a fancy-dress
affair, and the nurses had a worrying job
digging out garments for officer patients.
Our day-nurse missed a lot of her routine
jobs pressing and renovating a set of her
apparel for one of the convalescents. When
she was at lunch the tragedy happened.
Someone pinched the rig-out. We all looked
for it that afternoon, but not a stitch was
found. Solution of the mystery came when
Steve, one of the few Diggers in the ward,
descended on the hop in full nurse’s march-
ing order. Diving behind a screen he un-
earthed two small bottles of Bass from
somewhere beneath his skirts. That was the
first of a succession of trips, every time with
the same sort of cargo. The night nurse and
the rightful owner found the togs next morn-
ing in the pantry, with a note on top offer-
ing Steve’s apologies and regrets that the
lacy things weren’t the matron’s so he’d
have had room for more beer.
* * * *
“Oran”: Add Maoriland to the list of
countries which are becoming more addicted
to temperance. When the Government
reserved two of the islands in the Hauraki
Gulf, near Auckland, as homes for habitual
drunks, and handed the management of both
over to the Salv’army, Roto Roa accommo-
dated over 100 men and the adjacent Paka-
toa could house 50 women. Now a mere 36
men remain in detention, while the ladies
in durance vile number only eight.
* * H* *
“S.T.S.” : Adelaide’s City Council, encour-
aged by the success of similar experiments in
Melbourne and especially in Sydney, removed
the highly ornamental railing round Victoria-
square, after years.of urging, and regretted
the action within as many weeks. Without
any vandalism or wrong-doing, people settled
on the lawns at the G.P.O. end like a swarm
of locusts, and with about the same effect.
The dusty expanse is now to be treated to
“a plan of reorganisation,” which must in-
clude some sort of fresh fencing if the grass
is not to become all pathway. It is mostly
a matter of climate. Adelaide’s average
rainfall in the four months December-Mareli
is 3.48 in.; Sydney’s is 15.69 in. And what
moisture Adelaide gets it loses quickly: the
mean evaporation in Adelaide in the same
four months is 30.56 in.; in Sydney it is
only 18.45 in. A volume of other figures
could be produced to suggest that what may
be one Australian city’s food may be another
Australian city’s poison.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“The Ilippogryph”: There was conster-
nation on the farm when the infant son of
the house poked some foreign body down
his little throat and began to choke hor-
ribly. Mother, father, aunts and cousins
offered advice and remedies in hysterical
unison, but the boy’s face seemed to go
blacker and blacker. A town traveller had
just arrived and the distracted mother
entreated him to do something. He pushed
through the wailing group, hauled the nipper
up by his ankles and shook him, head down,
as though he were a bag being emptied. A
small marble shot forth from the child’s
mouth and his face returned to normal. Did
the relieved mother fall on the stranger’s neck
in gratitude? She did not. She clawed his
face and drove him from the place. “The
heartless brute,” she said, “to turn my baby
up on his head like that and shake him as
though he were a wheat-bag!”
* * $ *
“Pliilm”: Intent on buying a motor-car,
a Perth man strapped himself to the doors
of a building at night so as to be certain
of being there first. When business com-
menced in the morning there were several
hundred other prospective buyers in the
queue. The car, ready to drive away, was
offered for a pound.
THE FALL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the season —a trite reflection —
Of days that shorten uncommon fast,
While the year takes on the mild dejection
Of a man who knows that his prime is
past. ,
’Tis the “teeming autumn” of Shakspeare s
theming,
Whose “mellow fruitfulness” Keats
vignettes, . ;
Though I can’t just now see with what it s
teeming
Save crops of public and private debts.
And while nights are lengthening, brother,
have you
Observed how skirts are lengthening, too?
This is the season when grog displaces
The beer that foamed in the tankard cool;
When the “muddied oaf’* is hard on the
traces
Hot on the heels of the “flannelled fool” ;
When the golden beaches their spell sur-
render,
And the nip in the air as daylight dies
Means lessened toll for the ice-cream vendor
And more for the trader in steaming pies.
But, while days draw in, have you noticed,
eh?
That skirts are tending the other way?
This is the season in ’bus or flivver
He nestles closer a bit to Her ;
When girls in silks or in chiffons shiver,
Thinking of woollies or fain for fur.
’Tis the time of Fall, in the Yankee lingo—-
All that, you say, you have known of yore.
But there’s something falling now, by jingo!
That never an autumn showed before:
The skirt descends from its apogee
A full inch further below the knee.
This is the season when hopes grow colder,
And high resolves and things like these
Are prone to wilt, as a chap gets older,
Like withered leaves from deciduous trees.
Life somehow always appears more hollow
Than at other times, with the shortening
day,
But, dash it! Winter and spring will follow
Till earth again shall be green and gay...
But the lengthening skirts? I fear ’twere
vain
To feature it ever so brief again.
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


S 3
ft'.-'-
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD
J. R. KIRK, Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
Toted Assets exceed . . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Asflociation and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sun; assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately,
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost eveiy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
B. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Belle of New York”
Criterion . “Journey’s End”
Royal “The Hawk”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Maid of the Mountains”
New Comedy (coin. Saturday) “Romana”
King's “Love Lies”
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
•
William Faversham, in “The Hawk” at
Sydney Royal on Saturday night, did some-
thing inexcusable. He acted. It isn’t done.
He should look round the younger genera-
tion of stage inhabitants and correct his
ways before it is too late. There are plenty
of models.
From them he can learn that if someone
has been foolish enough to state in the
programme that he is Count George de Daz-
etta, he should leave it at that. The play-
wright who exercised his brains and the
subtleties of his craft in creating a character
of that name should also be forgotten. Such
people are only small
fry compared with the
player, and should
never be allowed to
prevent him from let-
ti n g the audience
enjoy the sort of
The Hawk invites his wife’s fancy to shake.
chap he is personally All the lead-
ing actors understand this, and it’s
simply heresy for a Faversham to come
along and recreate in the flesh a prompt-
script Count George de Dazetta as if there
were some sacred obligation to do so. If he
is passed out of the Actors’ Union, he will
have no one to blame but himself.. He is
not even content with making a flesh-and-
blood reality of Dazetta. It is part of the
playwright’s scheme that something more
than the mere dropping of the curtain should
suggest the passage of time after the second
act. The curtain rises on the third, and the
time that has passed is not more than that
taken to stroll outside and have a smoke.
Then Faversham enters, and with him the
illusion that months have gone by.
The truth is that Faversham is an artist.
His first play, “The Prince and the Pauper,”
gave him an agreeable but scarcely vital part.
Dazetta in “The Hawk” is a different figure.
He is a- scion of Hungarian nobility a little
down in the world. Like Casanova, whom
he resembles in no other way, he regards
all who will play for money as legitimate
victims. He swindles them, but only to
supply the extravagant needs of his adored
lady, Marina, whom he influences to help
him in the little game. Marina finds a lover
in Rene, a most upright young fellow, whose
Galahad morality makes her realise the
enormity of what she and the Count are
doing. Then Rene catches them doing it,
tells her privately that she is a cheat and
a liar, and is himself caught out as her lover
in a very effective scene wherein the Count,
suspicious because the young man complained
to the Countess instead of to himself, tests
Rene with a handshake. “If he shakes hands
with me, knowing what he knows, he is your
lover.” Rene shakes, and the Count leaves
his adored lady to him. He has to be found
again to give consent to a divorce, according
to French law, and in the third act an
American millionaire relation of Rene finds
him. The Count, now seedy and dissipated,
agrees on condition that Marina shall ask
him to consent, and the two are left together
to carry through a fine act, with the Count’s
love and his distressed condition—he has
been playing honestly, has lost, and taken to
a drug—finally turning the scale. It is a
sound play, tardy in beginning, but first-
rate afterwards, and especially so in the
second act.
Ann Davis joined Faversham in making
a conspiracy of the heresy of acting. She,
too, had scarcely a vital part in the earlier
play; when she was the Princess Elizabeth,
but she made a brilliant cameo of it. Here
she has a life-size character to portray and
she does it with equal cleverness. She has a
peculiar personality, so unusual that it needs
getting used to, but there is no question about
her acting quality. Support is fair, with
G. Kay Souper a good third in exalting
acting into the art it mostly isn’t.
* ¥ *
The orchestra that plays at Sydney Town
Hall on Saturday nights commands admira-
tion for its indomitable courage. It is
continually coming under new conductors
and inuring itself to their idiosyncrasies, yet
it cheerfully tackles, with very few re-
hearsals, the most mountainous peaks in the
range of orchestral composition. At its
latest concert, cheered, perhaps, by the fact
that it had escaped a change of conductors
for once and was carrying on for a second
time in obedience to Fred QuintrelPs baton,
it sailed into Tschaikowsky’s colossal Fourth
Symphony. The players were handicapped
by a rather sparse audience and a chilly
night, two factors that make the hall a cave
of echoes. Still, they managed to reproduce
a good deal of the ironic cheerfulness of the
work—the product of a sensitive mind in
torture. The “Egmont” overture was given
what the grain merchants would call an
f.a.q. performance, and in the popular tit-
bits that garnished the main courses, such
as Elgar’s “Pomp and Circumstance” and
Boccherini’s “Minuet,” the orchestra earned
several encores.. The wood-winds are improv-
ing ; the strings don’t need improvement; but
the whole organisation suffers from insuffici-
ent preparation for difficult tasks.
* * *
The season was the only excuse the Mel-
bourne Repertory Society can fairly advance
for putting on Masefield’s play in verse
“Good Friday” for five nights at the Play-
house. The sixteenth-century nativity play
which Frank Clewlow staged in the Botanic
Gardens at Christmas two. years ago was
unsophisticated, deadly sincere, unconsciously
humorous and generally charming. Mase-
field’s restatement of the Bible story is
stodgy and superfluous. The unknown jour-
nalists who covered the doings in Pontius
Pilate’s courthouse were admirable report-
ers. _ A modern sub-editor would have
received their copy with whoops of plea-
sure. Masefield retells their story undra-
matically in spineless minor verse and with
both eyes on the Anglican censor. Harry
Traynor (Pilate). Eric Donald (Longinus),
Alice Smith (Procula), Keith Roberts
and Clewlow delivered the piece as if it were
a collection of sermons, as indeed it was.
The settings were elaborate and artistic, and
as a Jewish mob the Repertorians enjoyed
themselves sartorially.
The curtain-raiser, “X Equals O,” by
Drinkwater, was another somewhat pre-
cious fragment. Two Grecian soldiers (Clew-
low and Erie Donald) discuss the ten-years’
war over the rape of Helen in the language
of modern pacifists. Then Clewlow departs
to do some sniping with a dagger amongst
the Trojans. In the next scene the Trojan
walls appear, and two Trojan soldiers
OClaude Thomas and Harry Traynor) in-
dulge in further unsoldi erly moralising on
international relations. Finally Mr. Thomas
departs in hi s turn to do a bit of sniping
amongst the Hellenes. Each sniper bags the
friend of the other fellow. The play has
little dramatic value, though it might while
away a half-hour in the library. The reper-
tory movement needs less literature and more
life.
* * ¥
All is as well as ever with Melbourne
Tivoli now that Jim Gerald has moved into
the dressing-room re-
cent ] y vacated by
George Wallace. The
Gerald show is a more
painstaking attempt to
look like a full-bodied
Ann Davis and, a gay old man.
revue than its predecessor, and limelight
effects and handsome scenery help to hide the
deficiencies of Edna Ralston and Tom Dale
in the matter of singing. The latter,
described as stage lovers, provide an amus-
ing turn as honeymooners which gets nearer
to artistic subtlety than anything seen at
the Tivoli in present writer’s experience.
* * *
The Bulletin’s most unsophisticated
reporter went to the Melbourne Town Hall
the other afternoon to inspect an exhibition
of goldfish, but when he got there goldfish
were off and he found himself amongst a
large concourse of men and women with
notebooks seated around tables spread with
tea and cake. At first he thought it was a
religious service, because a band was playing
slow music from
amidst the palms
and the lights were
low and the tea-
swallowers wore sad
devotional expres-
sions, as if they had
just been through a
deep emotional experi-
ence or the Athan-
asian Creed. Also,
the smart young
male attendants tip-
to e d ' about an d
spoke in hushed
tones as if they were
conducting one of
the more esoteric
mysteries of the
Abyssinian church.
Presently a girl
with a Dresden-
china face appeared
and swayed in front
of the reporter, clad
in a lemon-colored
nightie. An an-
nouncer shouted that
Fred Quintrell on
the job.
she was “A 3582 (emb.).” She was followed
by an athletic-looking damsel whose torso was a
cross between that of the Apollo Belvidere
and the Venus of Melos. She advertised the
charms of a blue brassiere, a pair of petti-
bloomers (No. 550, col. lace) and an expanse
of sun-burned body in between. A vest,
No. L 135 (emb.) was then carried round
by a creature fit to pose for a study of
the Venus Genetrix. Then a pantette, No.
441 (lace pocket), made its apearance on
the person of a damsel who was certainly
the lady who caused all the trouble over
Troy. A grand procession followed in which
a pair of pyjamas (No. 534, col. lace), vests,-
et-brassieres and other items figured. Then
the reporter knew he was at a mannequin
parade, or, as the man at the door called it,
a show of “female linjeeree.”
It appeared that the City Fathers had let
the basement to a Sydney firm of manu-
facturers of women’s oddments, a- highly
immoral proceeding for a city like Melbourne,
one would imagine. And what would our
mothers have thought of it all! Ask ’em.
There were a lot of them looking on.
* # *
The discovery has been made that Mel-
bourne weather is sufficiently stable to permit
of open-air orchestral concerts in the
Botanical Gardens for at least six months
yearly. Advocates of alfresco eating and
drinking have been proclaiming this truth
for a generation, but until Fritz Hart gave
a practical demonstration interests vested m
dingy indoor pursuits were able to carry the
public. The last concert sponsored by Sidney
Meyer’s generosity drew a larger crowd than
ever to Director Rae’s terrestrial paradise, and
the traffic it created made the city look like
a week-day instead of a Melbourne Sunday.
The calm, warm air carried the strains of
the “Fingal’s Cave” overture and the first
movement of Beethoven’s Sixth Symphony to
every part of the huge “house.” They were
played admirably. Over 100,000 have attended
the six concerts.
# * ¥
It is possibly because the composer is
an Australian, or because he isn’t a jazz-
merchant or a peddler of outrageous dis-
cords, that the pianoforte works of Roy
Agnew are not yet appreciated at their
full worth. At Burdekin House, Sydney,
the other evening, he gave a recital that
comprised his “Fantasie Sonata” and
“Poem Sonata” and some essays in tone-
picturing. The “sonatas” don’t conform to
the classical recipe, but they are both
things of beauty, and Mr. Agnew made a
soul-satisfying job of their interpretation.
ITis music, whether programmatic, as in
“Falling Snow” and “Drifting Mists,” or
just music to take as you like it, as in
the sonatas, conjures up very vidid pic-
tures. The power to do that sets a hall- 1
mark on a composer’s genius. Spencer
Thomas sang some of Agnew’s songs—all
interesting and effectively scored. It was
a notable recital, full of pleasant surprises
both for those who knew, or thought they
knew, the recitalist’s work and those who
heard it for the first time.
¥ * #
The Melbourne Uni. Con. at its com-
mencement concert decided to feature a
work by a graduate. The choice fell on
Hubert Clifford, and his “Dargo : A Mom
tain Rhapsody” fully justified the select .
Clifford here endeavors to interpret .tn
rugged grandeur, the loneliness and exqinsir •
beauty of the Gippsland Alpine district.
Brilliant scoring announced in the first tev
bars that real music was being played Dy
the orchestra. The main fault was lac’
of cohesion between the principal parts 01
the opus, but the effort showed daring and
originality, and was a big advance on the
young man’s previous sally at the town
Hall. If Clifford, who is one of the crew
of the moving platform at the State, tails
as a composer, he should succeed as a con-
ductor. He has the stage aplomb of a
Slapoffski. He is off to Europe shortly.
# # #
In the three renderings of Milne’s
“Bladys” play by the Adelaide Repertory
(in its new home, the Australia Hall) there
was uniformly good acting by Jack Fox and
Patricia Ilackett, the brusque younger genera-
tion ; Etlielwyn Robin and Sando, the serio-
comic parents; Wallace Johnstone, the can-
did friend ; Beryl Kook, the soulful daughter :
and, especially, Jack Ham, in the difficult
part of a man of 00, venerable, yet not senile.
Allan Wilkie, at the Royal, proves that he
has strengthened his grip. His Shylock is
more dignified, and Bottom more broadly
comic. Miss Hunter-Watts, too, takes with
ease the long stride from Lady Teazle to
Portia and Titania. Of a large and strong
co., Cairns, Keane and Lorna Forbes take
the other honors.
¥ ¥
Reading his way round Sydney suburbs,
Steele Rudd found his Waliroonga audience
waiting in the Presbyterian church. He
tackled his job from the pulpit and when
properly in his stride was able to convince
his listeners that they were an audience
and not a congregation. His next “talk” will
be at the Sydney King’s Il’all on April 23.
Visitors to Sydney’s biggest show have ithe
choice of a better theatrical bill than has
been on offer for a very long time.
“Journey’s End” is a play that should not
be missed by anyone; “The Belle of New
York” revival proves the melodious old piece
as fresh as ever it was; and “The Hawk”
is a satisfying light drama splendidly acted.
Wirths’ Circus is doing fine business, and
will no doubt do even better.
The Palette
Sydney Gallery trustees purchased a vase
of conventional full roses from Arthur Stree-
ton’s show T at Sydney Macquarie Galleries.
It is a rich bunch, unquestionably roses,
splendidly painted, and quite uninspiring. In
landscape there is one gem, “Evening, Mount
Old-man Wirth introduces Madeline—his
fifth daughter to take to the sawdust
and spangles.
Dandenong,” with sunlight dropping theatri-
cally but very effectively on to a couple of
selection clearings.
The autumn show of S.A. Society of Arts
is over-dominated by still-life—including
fruit, flowers, the familiar cut-lemon and
quaint image-posing. The prizes which
stimulate this display go to young Nora
Heysen (who carries on the family name
with a brilliant study of petunias plus green
apples), Jessamine Buxton (Iceland poppies
watched over by a little Chinese dragon),
and George Whinnen (roses against a power-
ful dark background). The etchings of Good-
child attract, D’Auvergne Boxall has brought
back spoils of a visit to Europe, James
Ferries is steadily working to the point
(though not there yet), and Ivor Hele’s
powerful explorative figure work has all the
vigor of extreme youth.


r'-V 1 '- '
•v: \ "
*w N Vi)! '* *>
%« Ml*
'. Y.'lfir Mf/v t
Ml
B
\V Sfl
Piping
%
m
z
in
nm
flrfi
c
■o
ifill
ft
X
n
lf»
*
SEALED UNDEfV VACUUM 1
MmQmq&W
eOLD label'
U
OID SCOTCH WHISKY
ualit
\ts^
utnown
MW,A
F' v .^
$
KiNucro
■:\
»
H
°OLD
%
-3F
>
s
%
f^PTtANO
k^kaJteccal,^
*£w '« •**£*<
&
!'i ,Aq
tt
Li«..°°u
SCOTLA*
!>\, , C »D
w
I
tsgsr
,i ,f
S3S
: Wi
i^ll!W
m
iH
Hi
fife
fi
#>&*
sg
«
r
m.
wm
Hi
jYffi
; 111
fggf
•E J >’
4
12
n .
9
9
ftiiiiJS
l£
t V.‘
■rW
lA\
VH*
‘i\
WMimfS
: m m%
®ti
;yfo
SH
gs
>, *V fe ,'SA V
Vi V ?• f
pi*
«s i
■ I
MOk»
H > !v W
11 lii
m
ijMM
1 V 1 4 -' v
pssts
gfe&sS
RfO-'Sfc'.,
*
IS
spii,
nt*
ill
•i^l
■, '/, '[ ‘1
Hi
. ' ; :- ?• ••: • • • V
'’K.
m
fc<W
J “' V !'W
u
m
m
.. * r , i’* a
. 1 Si?
ssilps
ijJSL
SMMI
m
m
mm


Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters. Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST. r REDFERN, N.S.W
Tilling-Stevens Motors, Ltd.
Maidstone, England.
94- 3- 5/6-TON GEAR-DRIVEN 30 PASSENGER “EXPRESS”
2 ’ ’ MOTOR CHASSIS.
Specially Suitable for Transportation of Cattle, Sheep, Horses, etc.
SOLE CONCESSIONAIRES.—
GUTIIRIDGE LIMITED, 10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney
INSURE WITH THE
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Company—
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
This Week’s Investment Tip.
The stock most dealt in on the Sydney
market during the past month has been
Associated Newspapers; and, attracted by
the 13s. or thereabouts at which the line
has been quoted, there has been inquiry,
too, from Melbourne, which saw that its
own “Herald” shares moved steadily up
past £5 before the recent bonus issue was
made.
There seems to be a fascination about
newspaper interests. Sydney succumbed to it
a few years ago and paid for “Telegraph”
shares a price which showed under 3 p.c.
Later “Sun” shares exercised the same spell.
This may explain why Associated news-
papers lias been singled out for special atten-
tion from among a hundred that have fallen
heavily.
A paper, and especially a daily paper, is
one of the most speculative investments in
the world. With one or two lucky hits it
may win great popularity within a few
months, or it may fade right out, not within
a few months perhaps, but certainly within
a few years. The “Sun,” raked out of the
ashes of the “Star,” which had barely
smouldered for 30 years, illustrates the
rapid success; the painful history of
the “Telegraph” records a rapid descent
from great popularity to indifference and
decay.
The success of the “Sun” encouraged its
managers to take in hand first the “Tele-
graph,” then the “Evening News,” finally
the “Guardian,” along with associated'
papers. The argument seemed to be, “We
have made a great success of the ‘Sun.’
We can therefore make a great success of
these others.” If they can do that, of
course these are fine shares to buy at 13s.
or so.
But what the investor has to consider
is whether any group of men can make a
great success of a bunch of newspapers
under any but favoring conditions. Also
whether it follows that a group of men who
make a success of one paper can necessarily
make a success of another. The “Sun” had
favoring conditions. On the other hand it is
just as well to remember what happened to
Melbourne “Punch.” Run for half a cen-
tury with moderate success, by men who
made no claim to brilliance, it was acquired
by the group which has made so vast a suc-
cess of Melbourne “Herald.” Within two
years “Punch” was dead. The experiment
had cost probably £50,000.
The position so far as Associated News-
papers is concerned is that it has a paid
capital of £3,490,281, in £1 shares, of which
2,060,303 are ordinaries and 1,429,978 7 p.c.
cum. prefs. In the three years 1927-29
inclusive, the average profit of Sun News-
papers, Ltd., was £162,882. The average of
S. Bennett, Ltd., for three years to October
28 was £54,685. The “Guardian,” if it made
any profit at all, could not have made more
than a thousand or two. What it makes is
certainly not half as much as the “Pictorial”
loses. Let these two, then, cancel one
another, and assume that the other two can
make their average profits of the boom
years. The total would be £217,567. The
7 p.c. prefs. take £100,099, leaving £117,468
for the ordinaries, equal to just under
5| p.c.
It may be that the management can make
more under present conditions than the
“Sun” and “News” cos. averaged in the boom
years ■ but, in view of the great slump in
revenue from advertising, the “Wild Cat”
does not think it probable—so far as the
next year or two are concerned, at any rate.
On the ground that increasing expenses had
compelled the charge the price of evening
papers was raised last week to 14d. After
five days’ trial this plan was abandoned.
In what other way a recovery can be made
is not obvious.
If this reasoning is right a 5 p.c. dividend
is all that can be expected by ordinaries;
and in the very difficult circumstances share-
holders will be very lucky indeed if they get
it. A 5 p.c. div. at 13s. for a 20s. share
means a return of under 7| p.c.—which is
none too much considering the risks of the
business, the outside liabilities and the very
large amount of capital represented by in-
tangible assets.
Caledonian Collieries, Ltd.
Nominal
Net f -Dividends N To Re- Re-
Profits. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 71,631 6 p.c. 6 p.c. = 71,505 126 73,102
1920. .133,218 8 ~ 10 ~ ~ 111,864 21,354 94,456
1921. .147,790 8 „ 12 „ ~146,250 1,540 95,996
1922. .130,266 8 „ 9 „,, 129,268 998 96,994
1923.. 79,540 6 „ 5„ „ 79,038 502 97,496
1924.. 93,842 6 „ 6„ „ 89,274 4,568 102,064
1925.. 89,242 6 „ 6„ ~ 89,274 102,032
1926.. 76,147 6 „ 4„ „ 68,802 7,345 109,377
1927.. 58,859 6 „ 3„ „ 58,566 293 109,670
1928.. 79,105 6 „ 6„ „ 79,038 67 109,737
Loss.
1929.. 54,193 Nil —■ 55,544
The loss, of course, is the direct result of
the stoppage on the northern N. S. Wales
coalfield. There has been no essential change
in the position in the industry, and just
how and when the said industry is going
to pull itself, or be pulled, out of the bog
is not yet certain. It long ago became obvi-
ous that the Coal Commission’s efforts would
prove abortive. Meanwhile costs in those con-
cerns dependent upon coal are kept up wnen
their reduction is essential, and imports are
needlessly swollen.
When work on the field is resumed, and
indications are that it may be presently,
those cos. with secured markets, ensuring
the sale of an adequate output, will be able
to show the best results. In the meantime
the heavy expense of keeping mines and
plant in working order is having its effect
upon the finances of the cos. concerned.
The Caledonian runs seven collieries. The
four Aberdares are on the Greta seam, the
best and least expensive in the State, and
the Waratah (Burwood seam) and West
Wallsend and Killingworth (Borehole seam)
are still good mines. The co. is Howard-
Smith controlled, being thus favored so far as
markets are concerned. At the producing
end electrification of the colliery plants has
been steadily persevered with, well over
£lOO,OOO having been spent on a central
power plant at Cockle Creek during the last-
half-dozen years. Probably a little help was
got from profits for this work, but the board
went outside for a good deal of the money.
Here is as much as balance-sheet figures
tell:—
1923 1927 1928 1929
Pref. capital.. £464,295 £464,295 £464,295 £464,295
Ord. capital.. 1,023,5991,023,5991,023,5991,028,599
Creditors .. 188,930 323,531 307,066 219,972
Overdraft .. 16,671 19,920 —■ 98,365
Collieries, etc. 1,645,2981,787,550 1,766,0601,738,708
Stores .. 103,724 93,552 50,515 61,555
Coal stocks . . 6,306 13,074 1,646 758
Book debts-.. 48,662 39,930 58,435 9,074
Shares .. 51,302 51,302 51,302 51,302
Cash, etc. .. 809 245 21,376 378
To keep things in working order, write off
£27,352 more than was spent on fixed assets
and reduce the amount coming to sundry credi-
tors by £87,094, the board last year went to
its bankers for £98,365, and drew upon
liquids for £60,207 net. So the financial posi-
tion slipped £71,478, liabilities exceeding the
more or less liquids by £195,270 at Dec. 31.
A capitalisation at the beginning gilded
divs. for the parent, but individual share-
holders have had only moderate returns.
Until the present waste in the industry is
eliminated, the outlook for colliery scrip as
an investment is not bright. The prefs.,
which carry a cumulative 6 p.c. and advance
w-itli the ords. to 8 p.c., are priced around
165., at which figure the return is 1\ p.c. on a
6 p.c. div. basis. For the ords. 12s. is offered.
Perkins and Co.
Perkins, once the most prosperous of
Queensland breweries, had dropped badly. It
had registered losses totalling £43,514 for the
two years to the close of accounts in 1929;
and shareholders, who had averaged only 4.9
p.c. over the last decade, had gone quite hungry
since 1927. Moreover, the co. had gone
heavily into debt, and had practically no
reserves; so, after much consideration, the
board sold the brewery plant and the trade
of its 19 hotel freeholds for 25 years, and
of 50 leasehold hotels for the term of the
leases, to Castlemaine, Quinlan ; Gray and
Co., which thereupon changed its name to
Castlemaine, Perkins, Ltd.
That was in July, 1928. The price was
160,000 shares of 12s. 6d. each, valued at
155.; and Perkins later took up another
40,000 at par. The lot (in at cost,
£145,000) were lumped with hotel freeholds,
etc., at £571,128 at Feb. 18, 1929. The free-
holds, by the way, had been written up
£111,560 to cover the loss on plant and the
amount written off book debts. The latter
figured at £139,448, which, together with
£4447 of cash, etc., was £194,050 short of the
amount coming to creditors (£337,945).
The next table shows what has happened
since:—
1928. 1929. 1930.
Stocks .. .. .. £97 545
Loans, book debts, etc. 223,390 £139,448 £129,135
Cash, etc 4,490 4,447 656
£325,425 £143.895 £129,791
Liabilities .. .. 390,198 337.945 113,145
Liquid surplus.. .. £16,646
Excess liabilities £64,773 £194.050
To wipe out the overdraft and lessen the
remaining debt, the co. last year sold half
(100,000 shares) of its holding in Castle-
rnaine, Perkins, together with some of the
hotel freeholds. The book value of freeholds
and shares (now £361,085) was reduced
£210,043; book debts and cash were down
£14.104. and £224,800 was lopped off the
debt. Thus a liquid surplus of £16,640
showed up at Feb. 28 last.
The scrip was taken by those on Perkins's
register at 18s. Assuming that it comprised
tne parcel bought by the co. at par, and 60,000
of the purchase shares, there was a profit
of £20,000 there. Exactly how this has been
dealt with, and whether the freeholds real-
ised more or less than their book values, is
not visible in the published figures.
The year’s rents, sales of leases, etc.,
turned in £35,306, of which exes. (£27.034)
and taxation (£7620) made off w T ith all but
£652. On the figures at Feb. 28 it looked
as if interest on the outside debt would about
offset the interest on customers’ balances,
etc. A 10 p.c. div. on the co.’s present hold-
ing in Castlemaine,* Perkins would be worth
£6250, equal to 1.6 p.c. on Perkins’s £374,708
of paid capital. So, to pay 5 p.c. on this,
rents, etc., will need to show at least 4-1
p.c. net on the book value of freeholds,
and that looks easy enough. But properties
include the old brewery premises in Mary-
street, which are apparently not bringing in
much, if anything, while they keep the tax
bill high. Until this property is. sold the
investment value of the scrip remains uncer-
tain.
On paper the fully-paid pound shares are
back by 20s. Id. in net tangibles, of which
freeholds represent 14s. 4d.; shafes, 4s. Bd.;
liquid surplus, Is Id. The market prices
them at 9s. as against 15s. a year ago. The
return at the current figure is 11.1 p.c. on
a 5 p.c. div. basis.
Union Trustee Co.
Ordi- Investment
nary Fluctuation
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 12,420 10 p.c. = 10,000 29,315 734
Transferred to capital, £5,000 24,315 734
1921.. 15,670 10 p.c. = 10,500 29,485 682
Transferred to capital, £5,000 24,485 682
1922.. 14.020 10 p.c. = 11,000 27,505 736
1923.. 15,309 10 „ ~ 11,000 31,814 1027
1924.. 17,024 10 „ ~ 11,000 37,838 1047
1925.. 20.853 10 „ ~ 11,000 47.691 1047
1926.. 20,233 10 „ ~ 11,000 56,924 1063
1927.. 20,706 10 „ ~ 11,000 66.630 1097
Transferred to capital, £15,000 51,630 1097
1928.. 20,252 10 p.c. = 12,500 59,382 1026
1929 20,341 10 „12 -500 \ Q n 56
Staff Super. Fund, £2OOO )
1930.. 21,033 10 p.c. = 12,500 ( fi4B
Staff Super. Fund, £2OOO ) tL ’ 100
Transferred to capital, £12,500.. 59,256 648
Reserves are to be dipped into for £12,500
to pay another 2s. 6d. on each of the 100,000
50s. shares, making them paid to 275. 6d.
All but 2s. 6d. of the remaining 225. 6d. is
a reserve liability, callable only in the event
of liquidation. The gift will advance paid
capital to £137,500, on which a 10 p.c. div.
will call for less than two-thirds of last year’s
net earnings.
The co. began in Melbourne 45 years ago,
arid lias since spread to Brisbane, Sydney
and Townsville. But it is only during the
last decade that shareholders have skimmed
much cream from the business. The div.
reached 10 p.c. in 1920, when the first capi-
talisation —a modest £5OO0 —was made ; gifts
now total £37,500, including the present one.
The volume of trusts administered is not
disclosed, but earnings are stepping along
nicely:—
Commissions,
Interest, etc. Expenses.
1895 .. .. £7,799 £4,151
1915 .. .. 17.318 9,728
1920 .. .. 37,029 24,609
1926 .. .. 81,607 61.374
1927 .. .. 86 869 66,162
1928 .. .. 92,761 72,509
1929 .. . . 95,036 74,695
1930 . . . . 104,567 83,534
The co.’s strong influence in pastoral circles
and a run of satisfactory seasons have helped
the figures greatly. The present slump in
values can be expected to affect commission
earnings, as well as returns from the co.’s
own funds; but there is a wide margin be-
tween earnings and distributions. Apart
from the small chance these cos. take in
investing their own funds, they do not have
to risk much.
Most of the year’s spare money went into
premises:—
1915. 1920. 1929. 1930.
Capital .. £73,822 £lOO,OOO £125,000 £125,000
Liabilities .. 1,231 6,084 176 89
Premises .. 50,474 83,925 106,152 121,344
Public securities 32,732 52,668 60,742 61,791
Mortgages and
debentures 1,724 455 427
Cash, etc. .. 7,117 2,235 28,020 21,216
Sundry debtors
and sundries 1,660 2,305 4,437 964
Public securities appear at net market price
at balancing date, which probably accounts
for the disappearance of £5OB from the invest-
ment fluctuation reserve.
In the market buyers offer 555. for the
scrip. Allowing for the gift, the return at
that figure is 5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The net tangible cover amounts to 28s. 9d.
per pound of paid capital.
Wright, Heaton and Co., Ltd. (Sydney;.
Dividends and To He- He-
Profits. Bonuses. serves, serves.
£, £ £ £ .
Jan., ’23 . . 12,941 12 p.c. = 8250 4,691 114,754
July, ’23 .. 15,904 12 „ „ 8250 U 654 122,408
Written off Gold’s Debentures.. £5OOO 117,
Jan., ’24 .. 13,073 13* p.c.= 9281 3,792 121,209
Internal reserves disclosed.. £20,000
July., ’24 . . 17,028 15 p.c. = 10,312 6,716 147,916
Jan., ’25 .. 16,476 164 „ „ 11,344 5,132 153,048
July, ’25 .. 18,242 19 „ ~13,063 6,1/9 158,—;
Jan., ’26 .. 14,945 20 „ ~13,750 1,190
July, ’26 .. 15,227 20 „ ~13,750 1,477 160,899
Jan., ’27 . . 15,710 20 „ „ 13,750 1,960 162, 809
July, ’27 . . 17,785 20 „ „ 13,750 4,035 100,894
Jan., ’2B .. 17,799 20 „ ~13,750 3,049 170,943
July, ’2B .. 15,085 20 „ ~13,750 1,330 172,278
Jan., ’29 . . 15,375 20 „ „ 13,750 1,625 173,903
July, ’29 .. 15,527 20 „ „ 13,750 1,777 170,680
Jan., ’3O . . 15,074 20 „ „ 13,750 1,324 177,004
Drought ill the N.S.W. back country in-
creased the demand for stock food, so the
earnings of this carrying and supply co.
were not affected by last year’s shrinkage
in pastoral and agricultural incomes, bor
the 12 months to Jan. 31 gross pronts
(£135.264) sprang £9790. Exes. (£107,663,
including £3376 of staff bonuses) took all
but £l4l of the increase; nevertheless, the
net result was a robust £30,601, or 22.2 p.c.
on paid capital compared with 22.1, 25.8, 22.0
and 24.1 p.c. in the four preceding years, so
the 20 p.c. div. was not interfered with.
Not only is the co.’s purse bulging, but
the family stocking is believed to be pretty
full, too, despite occasional emptyings. The
last issue of bonus scrip (£45,000) was in
1917, but £25,000 was handed out in cash
two years later. Since then £20,000 has
been brought from hiding and put in the
window, and another £20,000 of inner re-
serves was used to write down the book
value of premises. And the visible accu-
mulations at Jan. 31 were £39,504 in excess
of paid capital.
Under ordinary circumstances another
bonus issue would be imminent. The board
considered this matter five years ago, but
lifted the div. instead. Any further distri-
bution of benefits is likely to be delayed
until the outlook becomes more settled.
The next comparison illustrates the growth
of the business and the snug state of the
finances:—
1919. 1926. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £137,500 £137,500 £137,500 £137,500
Liabilities .. 70,930 105,830 120,939 131,331
Premises, plant,
etc .. 21,152 54,574 47,940 51;23G
Stocks .. 57,728 81,724 113,390 129,410
Book debts .. 125,170 141,182 196,787 217,913
McCulloch Co. 44,766 95,828 67,887 68,022
Cash & invest-
ments . . 46,330 49,225 29,075 7,943
Last year the board drew upon cash and
investments for £21,132, went to its bankers
for £21,494, and raised £9956 of other loans.
It was thus able to chip £21,059 off the
amount coming to trade creditors (£99,880),
add £16,020 to stocks, and carry an extra
£21,126 of book debts. It all looks very
encouraging. The co. holds £25,000 of scrip
in McCulloch’s, the Vic. subsidiary; the dif-
ference between that figure and the entry in
the table represents advances. Including these
the more or less liquid surplus (£266,957)
was £5757 stronger than at Jan. 31. 1929.
There are 55.000 shares fully paid to 50s.
each. The visible backing is £5 14s. 4d. in net
tangibles, mostly liquids. - The market prices
the scrip at £7 ss. as against £8 twelve
months ago. At the current figure the return
is 6.9 on a 20 p.c. div. basis.
Metropolitan Life.
Ordinary Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.
£££ £ . £
1918.. 25,840 6,932 6,536 12,372 100,294
Profit on sale of property, £8500.. 145,122
1921-.. 41.826 7,238 9,573 25,015 170,137
Profit from sale of assets, £278 .. 195,905
1923.. 52,878 12 531 15,092 25,255 221,160
Profit from sale of assets, £407.. 221,567
1924.. 60,367 13,921 13,677 32,769 254,336
1925.. 69,425 12,350 15,018 42,057 296,393
1926.. 78,071 14,524 21,365 42,182 338,575
Staff Provident Fund, £lOOO .. 337,575
1927.. 86,733 21,195 16,919 48,619 386,194
1928.. 94,783 20,066 18,058 56,659 442,853
1929.. 104,903 26,728 29,875 48,300 491,153
■“lncludes divs. to shareholders: 1918, £458;
1923, £3708 ; 1926, £5208 ; 1929, £8333.
Industrial Department.
Added to
■Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1918.. 55,654 18,538 28,858 8,258 70,005
Profit on sale of property, £15.437. . 120,553
1921.. 80,298 18,096 39,186 23,016 143,569
Written off, £3437 140,132
Profit from sale of assets, £278 . . 164,845
1923.. 99,324 24,426 49,180 25,718 190,563
Profit from sale of assets, £4OB . . 190,971
1924.. 111,094 19,210 54,171 37,713 228,684
1925.. 125,012 27,136 59,411 38,465 267,149
1926.. 136,445 31,240 68,811 36,394 303,543
Profit from sale of assets, £2023.. 305,566
Staff Provident Fund, £4OOO .. 301,566
1927.. 148,553 35,920 71,633 40,980 342,560
1928.. 160,359 38,179 74,212 47,968 390,534
1929.. 170,172 41,272 80,961 47,939 438,473
“Includes divs. to shareholders: 1922, £888;
1923, £1480; 1924, £1966; 1925, £3473;
1926, £7500; 1927, £7500; 1928, £7500;
1929, £7500.
This is the 34-year-old Australian Metro-
politan Life Assurance Co.—it is now making
(Wild Cat continued on page 20.)


i
A
c /he
security
of a
Dank and
mmwb
Iranian
6% monthly interest
on current accounts
£5 only required to open this account.
Practically all investment plans which credit or pay interest
monthly require much larger initial payments than £5.
Add any amount at any time.
This is advisable for those who do not wish to contract
to invest a definite amount at stated intervals, and especially
attractive for the business or professional man whose income
is received in odd amounts at irregular intervals.
No discounts, no charges.
No charge is made to open this account, and no part of
the principal or interest is discounted when withdrawn.
A Form of Investment for Large
or Small Investors that holds firm
against Financial Tides
To-day’s need is for a safe investment that will return a substantial income.
Bank interest is sure enough but not sufficient. Among the dangerous tides
of finance to-day the Merron Estate, Ltd., stands out like a solid rock of
security. Its business is built on the soundest form of finance in existence —-
the advancing of money against approved securities.
Your money, no matter how much or how little, is secured by loans on
solid securities made on conservative valuations by men of expert capacity
and judgment.
COMPLETE PROTECTION AGAINST LOSS.
No money is advanced without ample security. Moreover, the securities
themselves are insured against loss, destruction or default. Also, the Share
Capital of the Company is a substantial guarantee to investors.
You can place your money in our hands for safe and wise invest-
ment and he assured of a guaranteed return of 10 per cent. This
is a higher rate of interest than any bank has yet offered .
Call in and talk it over or write for details. This is the
SAFE way to make your money earn profit for you.
THE MERRON ESTATE, UMITED
Deposit and Investment Company
11 Martin Place
(next door to Com-
monwealth Bank),
Sydney.


Are Your
Investments
Safe?
See “ ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly”
for April
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/6. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
Patents, —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth And Foreign Patents
obtained. Coldison & Co., 483 Collins Stieet, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* ❖ ❖ *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Exchange
Arranged. Geo. E. Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria
Buildings, Corner Collins and Swanston Streets, Mel-
bourne. — Advt.
=l= * * *
The many advantages claimed for Pioneer Wood
Pipe over metal pipe have been strikingly proved on
installations throughout Australia. To-day, Pioneer
Wood Pipe is regarded by leading engineers as an
economic factor of great importance —and its, speci-
fication on an increasing number of contracts speaks
volumes for its all-round efficiency. Write for illus-
trated literature to the Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane
Cove’, N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
Hvdraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament
1888) hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Risk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire ,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
ë
Works and I
Foundries i
Alexandria, Svdney, N.S.W.
Bassendean. Penh. W.A.
Branch (
Office S
422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Vie,
T. k U. Building, linsDane.- Q
dern
In Business ....
Guessing No
Longer Pays.
QUESSING is a fair gamble when
everybody’s doing it —but the
guesser hasn’t a chance when he bets
against competitors who put their
money on known facts. With the
co-operation of the leading authorities
in every field of business the A.H.I.
has assembled these fundamental facts
and principles in its Courses and
Service. With their aid every element
of guesswork will be eliminated.
Write to-day for the 78p.p. book,
“Forging Ahead in Business,” which
gives full particulars.
Alexander Hamilton
Institute
Courses controlled in Australia by:
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON.
MELBOURNE: 38 Bank House, Bank
Place, 410-12 Collins Street.
SYDNEY: 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack
Street. [P7
steady progress along sound lines, and
the business is scattered over the three east-
ern States and South Aus. As late as 1917
liabilities under policies exceeded the assur-
ance funds by £8538. The management has
since taken hold of the business, and funds
have lengthened their lead each time the
actuary has measured up the position. The
combined surplus in the two departments
was £32,856 in 1922, £59,393 in 1925, and
£86,880 in 1928. The last figure was written
after strengthening the basis of valuation
in each branch, transferring £20,000 to the
investment fluctuation reserve and putting
£2500 aside for taxation.
More attention was given to the Ordinary
branch last year, and definite progress was
made despite difficulties :
1920. 1927. 1928. 1929.
New policies.. 1,226 1,564 1,442 1,911
Assuring . . £186,988 £338,557 £336,052 £476,786
First premiums 7,349 11,429 10,570 15,024
Renewal
premiums.. 23,225 53,691 58,846 62,343
Compared with 192 S the average per policy
was £249 as against £233; exes, made off
with 27.8. p.c. of the net premiums as
against 23.8 p.c.—the ratio was 29 p.c. in
1924. The cost of putting the year’s new
policies on the books was 101.3 p.c. of the
first premiums compared with 100.6 p.c. in
the previous term; that is, assuming that
new business is 10 times more costly than
old. Bonuses were at the same rate as in
1928, when they ranged from 1.5 p.c. to
3 p.c. of the premium income. These rates,
the actuary says, are well within the co.’s
earning power.
Surplus interest and a favorable mortality
experience have been the chief sources of
profit. It is assumed that the funds will
earn 3£ p.c.; last year the average rate real-
ised was 6.3 p.c.
In the Industrial branch 13,511 policies
assuring £661,230 were put on the books last
year, and that was £24,263 less than was
written under 710 more policies in 1928.
An extra £5727 was gathered in net pre-
miums (£143,646), but exes,, including an
unexplained reduction of £3776 in reserves,
took 51.1 p.c. of the premiums as against
47.6 p.c. the year before. Bonuses are at
the rate of 10 p.c. on the sum assured for
policies 15 years in force, with an extra 1 p.c.
for each additional year.
The funds of the two departments, the
capital (£50,000) and some liabilities—the
lot totalling £99l,soo—are invested in these
proportions
’2O. ’24. ’26. ’27. ’2B. ’29.
P-c. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Freeholds, etc. . . 27.4 31.8 29.8 26.8 23.4 21.3
Government securities 53.6 44.3 42.6 39.1 36.9 36.4
Shares in other cos... 6.5 3.1 2.4 2.2 2.0 1.8
Mortgages .. .. 4.1 12.6 16.4 22.9 29.7 30.9
Loans on policies .. 2.7 3.2 3.7 3.5 3.7 4.2
Book debts . . .. 3.1 3.2 3.2 3.5 3.3 3.6
Gash and deposits .. 2.6 1.8 1.9 2.0 1.0 1.8
Mortgages and property investments—
£l3l,ooo-odd has been added to freehold over
the last seven years—account for the high
rate of interest earned.
During the last three years shareholders
have been handed £30,833 in divs., of which
£22,500 was from the Industrial and the
balance from the Ordinary branch. The
average was 20.5 p.c. p.a.
Q. N. Bank Reduces Div,
Not because insufficient was earned, but
because they considered it wise to conserve
the bank’s resources, the directors last week
reduced the div., paid quarterly, from 10 to
8 p.c. p.a. The decision surprised the
market, and the price for the scrip fell
sharply from £7 ss. to £6. At the lower
figure the yield is £6 14s. 9d. on an 8 p.c.
div. 1 basis, or an attractive 8.2 p.c. should
the div. be lifted to 10 p.c. again, and that
seems likely when things become more
settled. Four years ago, when the rate was
dropped from 12| p.c. to 10 p.c., the declared
aim was to keep the div. steady and make
new share-issues at par.
Paid capital is £1,750,000 in £5 shares,
so the saving in divs. will amount to £35,000
p.a. The £212,385 netted for the year ended
June 30 last was 11.6 p.c. on average capital
compared with 12.3, 13.6, 13.9, 15.7 and
16.1 p.c. back to 1924. The decline in those
figures was due mainly to a flood of new
capital—£9so,ooo was got in during the last
half-dozen years. Visible reserves at last
balance were £821,059; thus the backing for
the scrip was £7 6s. lid. in net tangibles,
and inner reserves, accumulated during a
long period of regeneration, are believed
to be substantial. Another source of strength
is the £3,091,669 of interminable deposit
stock, which is really very cheap pref. capi-
tal, costing only Si p.c. To pay this interest
and 8 p.c. on the scrip total funds (capital,
reserves and debenture stock combined) will
need to net only 4.3 p.c.; actually they
earned 5.6 p.c. in the last term.
Of late there has been a very brisk demand
for advances, but sluggish increase in deposits,
though much money formerly on current
account is now interest-bearing. This does
not suggest that earnings, which are derived
mainly from the difference between advance
and deposit rates, and from the margin be-
tween buying and selling prices in the
exchange market, have been any lighter. But
exactly how much of any year’s takings is
net profit is largely a matter of guesswork.
Security values generally have declined, and
just how bad or how doubtful any debt may
be cannot be precisely determined until it is
liquidated.
The spread between quotes for telegraphic
transfers on London is now 7s. 6d. as against
12s. 6d. about a month ago. The banks are
still rationing exchange, and seem likely to
do so for some considerable time.
As imported stocks are worked down and
overdrafts reduced, more money will become
available to assist the expansion of primary
and secondary production. But conditions
are such that it may be a while before
interest rates are reduced. Meanwhile bank
earnings will largely depend upon the way
m which their funds are kept employed.
Industrial expansion is an urgent need; and
the stage is set provided costs can be low-
ered, which means (1) more work or (2)
less pay.
Broken Hill and Its Metal Markets.
To the Broken Hill mines that have sent
up distress signals the British has now to
be added. In three or four months’ time the
only cos. working a re likely to be the North,
South, Sulphide Corp. and Zinc Corp.; and
Sulphide will probably ease off considerably.
Australia generally has been so busy talk-
ing about other things that it doesn’t seem
to have realised quite what has happened to
Broken Hill. Silver at the week-end was
Is. 7id. per oz. In 1902 when the metal
fell to Is. Did. Broken Hill got out its shut-
ters ; that was the lowest price recorded for
over 100 years. There was, however, a rather
quick recovery; and in 1920 the average
was ss. Though that was a post-war
boom price, for several years the quotation
was around 2s. lOd. In 1925 the average
was 2s. 10|d. From that paint there
lias been an almost unbroken fall, until
the average for last month was Is. 7id. A
low record of Is. 6§d. was reached on
March 4.
Lead and zinc don’t help, either. In lead
there has been even a worse fall than in
silver: 1925 saw the average at £35 17s. 4d.;
last month’s average was £lB 16s. Id.; and
the week-end price was £lB 12s. 6d. Spelter,
which averaged £36 ss. in 1925 has fallen
steadily to £l9 4s. 2d. last year (average),
to £lB 6s. Id. last month (average), and on
to £lB 3s. 9d. at the week-end.
And there is nothing in the metal statistics
that holds out hope of early improvement.
The one cheerful note in the dismal chorus
is sounded by the technical staffs, which
have done tremendous things in improving
extraction and cutting costs!
“Stannary”: While the British Empire is
the world’s greatest tin producer, America
is the chief consumer, and has been for
years past. British control has its draw-
backs from an American point of view, and
when the big slump in metal prices came in
1922 American interests set out to correct
the _ situation .by heavy if well concealed
buying of scrip in leading British tin pro-
ducing cos. The result has been that more
than one of the big British producing concerns
are now dominated by American interests.
As a consequence, some of the leading British
concerns are calling extraordinary meetings
with a view to ensuring that control of the
companies and their policies remains in
British hands. Naturally the American
section is up in arms at the suggestion,
which is, however, nothing new. British
interests are emphatic that their capital and
enterprise, have, brought tin production to its
present high pitch, and that the American
element is only following up its traditional
financial policy by buying up stocks to
enable it to. control the market and put rivals
out of a*ction, with a view to ultimately
establishing a monopoly.
*'* * *
Capital is being sought in Westralia to
search for some of the millions of ounces
of gold in the alluvial deposits of ancient
river beds there. One of these rivers, Pro-
fessor David stated, ran from Lake Austin
around the base of Mt. Magnet oh the
Murchison and Eventually reached the ocean
near Geraldton on the west coast. Another
and probably larger and longer ancient river
rose near Lake Way (Wiluna), and coursed
southwards through country which is now
covered by a chain of mostly dry lakes until
the waters were lost in the porous beds of the
sub-artesian basin of the Nullarbor Plain to
the east of Zaoithus on the Trans-Australian
line. The Professor declared there could be
little doubt that many payable patches of
alluvial gold would be found along these old
drainage channels. Although he mentioned
only two of such channels he said there were
others.
* * * *
Requiring £550,000 to complete the develop-
ment and equipment of its mine, the Wiluna
Co. (W.A.) went to the bank for the
money, but couldn’t get anything like the
amount asked for. So application was made
to the Federal Government for a* loan of
£300,000, The Federal Government would
not lend anything, but promised to back the
State Government’s guarantee to the co.’s
bank in London for tbe amount stated. The
balance of the £550,000 is being found by
the New Goldfields Consolidated of South
Africa, which, with the Transvaal Agency,
Ltd., lias furnished most of the £1,000,000
or thereabouts so far expended by the
Wiluna Co. in development and equipment.
* * * *
Since J. F. Thorn, a pushing, likeable
Yankee, took control, much has been done Irb
cheapen costs on the Lake View and Star
(W.A.) by scrapping obsolete plant and put-
ting the working of the co.’s large holdings
in order. The next monthly clean-up is
tipped to be the best for a long time, but
without a gold bonus Lake View, like most
other gold-mining cos. in Westralia, will not
have much to spare for prospecting.
* * * #
Golden Butterfly (W.A.), which for years
has mainly lived on calls and promises, is
again asking shareholders to contribute. The
directors announce that negotiations with
the Austral Development, Ltd., London, for
the purchase of the property are proceeding
satisfactorily.
* * * *
Attempts are being made in Westralia to
give Devon another trial. Years ago a lot
of Melbourne cash was sunk in this show.
It is poor grade, and costs have always
killed it.
\ Though still on the down-grade, produc-
tion from the Westralian Government bat-
teries continues to add a few hundred ounces
to the State’s monthly gold yield. The out-
put from these mills to date is worth about
£6,250,000, _ most of it obtained from small
out-back mines which have passed away.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
What is the strength of the leading Aus-
tralian joint-stock hanks, showing total assets
and liabilities? —ssss.
Assets. Liabilities.
N. S. Wales .. . . £67,692,556 £57,957,729
Commercial of Sydney 56,665,495 51,809,165
National of Australasia 43,964,313 34,923,726
E., S. and A. .. 39,051,356 34,274,173
Australasia .. .. 36,197,638 26,669,769
Union . . .. 30,355,188 24,061,476
Commercial .of Aus. .. 25,683,851 21,624,761
A.B.C 16,996,165 14,766,687
Queensland National .. 14,963,178 11,914,106
Adelaide .. ~ 7,336,072 5,885,687
These are average assets and liabilities within
the Commonwealth of Australia for the
quarter ended Dec. 31, 1929. But the nature
of the liabilities has to be taken into
account: thus the E., S. and A. and Q.N.
still have considerable sums of interminable
and inscribed stock among their liabilities.
Also, a few banks have written down their
premises to almost nothing; in such cases the
undisclosed value of the premises forms part
of the inner or hidden reserve.
From a policy-holder’s point of view what
is the position of (1) Australian Federal
Life and General Assurance Co. and (2)
Western Aus. Insurance Co.? (3) Is Vic.
Motor Traders’ P'inance Co. a reasonably
safe investment? —5985.
(1) Aus. Federal Life balances at Nov.
30; latest figures not yet available. At
Nov. 30, 1928, net tangibles were only 77
p.c. of the year’s net premiums—including
small life business—and 150 p.c. is usually
looked for. Paid capital was £72,021, with
another £5624 at call. The liquid position
is weak. In July last the co. bought fire,
accident and marine business of Federal
Building Assurance (now in compulsory
liquidation) and its three associates —Com-
monwealth Traders, Australian Traders and
Empire Life and General. No price dis-
closed. (2) Reserves, apart from life fund,
equal to 160 p.c. last year’s net premiums:
nearly four times amount usually considered
adequate. Funds mostly in sound securities.
(3) Prospectus issued in Aug., 1928; public
was asked for £190,000. No accounts yet
available. Investment highly speculative.
(1) What is the actual hacking of the
Commonwealth Bank note issue? (2) What
is the exchange value of the Commonwealth
Bank note in London or New York? —s46s.
(1) As at April 7 the Commonwealth
Bank’s note-issue was £43.934,326; its gold
coin and bullion was £24,992,805, equal to
56.88 p.c. of the issue. The other 43.12 p.c.
(£18,941,521) is represented by debentures
and unspecified “other assets.” (2) There is
no exchange value, strictly so-called, of Com-
monw'ealth notes abroad. But you can sell
Commonwealth £1 notes abroad at a discount
of about Is. 4d., which is approximately
what you have to pay by way of premium
for English or U.S.A. notes (6 p.c. = Is. 2.4 d.
on the £, or 3d. on the dollar) in Australia.
I invested most of my money in a Sydney
business’s pref. shares, believing that so
long as Hhey made enough profit to pay the
pref. dividend—a comparatively small amount
—I was safe. The shares are now worth
less than half what I paid for them. Where
did I go wrong, or is it possible things are
still all right? —sB94.
Another lady investor, unfortunately'; the
faith of lady investors in pref. shares seems
unconquerable. A pref. shareholder merely
comes in ahead of other shareholders, though
even here, unless the conditions of issue pro-
hibit it, other pref. holders may be pushed
in front by further issues of shares. But
all outside creditors, including debenture-
holders, come in ahead of the pref. share-
holder: to that rule there is no exception.
In the event of bad trading and a windmg-
up, secured creditors (debenture-holders,
mortgagees, etc.) must first be satisfied, then
all unsecured creditors; pref. shareholders, as
a rule, get first bite at what is left, though
sometimes they are not “preferential as to
capital.”
BRIEF ANSWERS.
E.A.8.: Tell the secretary you want to
sell; any price would be better than forfeiting
if you must... .L.R.: (1) If the shares are actually
£lOO paid, you get a return of £5 2s. 3d. p.c. (-2)
A shade under 73 1.8. A.: May pay a dividend
in 10 years—they can hardly earn one earlier
A.W.: A fair gamble, though the quoted figures are
ridiculous. You are committed to the purchase,
anyway... . H.G.: Depends on management, and
plainly this has yet to prove itself W.0.H.:
Leave it alone... .E.C.H.: Australian-Made Motor
Cars and Aeroplanes, Ltd., Turner’s Chambers,
Hunter-street, Sydney. You’ll find the prospectus
reviewed in “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” 0/7/ 29....
F.J.E.: But who is going to .guarantee the return?
It may come off, but it is a gamble in the hands
of men quite unknown to y0u.... Silvas: Awaiting
publication of accounts promised within a few weeks.
C.H.H.; No, it isn’t for a small investor who
can’t afford losses.. . .W.L.d’A.: Sunshine Park, Ltd.,
is in liquidation, so you’ll probably get something
out of the wreck, though you may find that
most of the money has gone in the launching..
L.D.C.: Large risks, large chances. Not for people
who can’t afford to 105 e... .A.W.0.: Better let it
lie on fixed deposit... .F.S.M.: See what’s said else-
where about Q. N. Bank shares.


Ferrodor’s
Challenge
to (
'nrr^
,73
OO?
y
t y
n-'-f
IL\
Ensures Perfect Protection
for
All Iron, Steel & Woodwork
As a weatherproof Paint, FERRODOR stands alone. It clings
tenaciously to the surface to which it is applied, and it will stand up to
the attacks of sun and rain, heat and cold, salt air and chemical
fumes, for many years without blistering or cracking.
Cases are on record of a coating of FERRODOR lasting 22 years,
but its average life is from 10 to 12 years. This means a great
saving of expense in re-paintings.
FERRODOR PAINT is used by the following well-known firms
and Government Departments:—
N.S.W. Government Railways.
N.S.W. Public Works Department.
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Australian Glass Manufacturers Co., Ltd.
Sulphide Corporation, Ltd.
Silverton Tramway Co., Ltd.
Wallaroo-Mt. Lyell Fertilisers, Ltd.
Cresco Fertiliser's, Ltd.
Mt. Lyell Chemical Co.
Cuming, Smith & Co.
Tooth & Co., Ltd.
Taronga Park Trust.
If you are interested we will gladly send you a color card and full
information —no obligation, of course.
FERRODOR PAINT is yacked in 20 colors in 7lb.
and llflb. tins and in 5611}. and 1-cwt. steel drums.
It is packed in paste form for greater economy,
since you only mix what you need. It is equally
good on iron, steel and woodwork, and is ABSO-
LUTELY NON-POISONOUS.
Eight gallons of mixed FERRODOR cover
approximately 7 13 square yards, at a cost of less
than 2ld. per yard.
If unobtainable locally, send direct to
WILLIAM ADAMS <f COMPANY
______ k I M I TED—/
SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, BRISBANE, MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE. PERTH.
*, }aP N t 0r
fol/ owin Q o } tain ed f rom
er Ed ; flr /r °m the
£ n ’ LT »;
E - EVi)n t Xr
G. p * S °A r S, Ne *ca stle I
0 . ' RANe & So /
*** «&■£*& /
G&0 ru, ’ ’ /
D 4Wso£ . /
Gi Uc® n P/ . & S °A T S, ‘ /
Br °ad w - a ■ /
' .. , ' **• /
aSi|a™‘ /
W. ,S -* iIO W /
North a /
QVa RTLBy s T ‘ /
Robe Rtsox ’ D " K ° Sai ' ah /
"°--c T r° a /
S °«O D * WO ". /
S 'ff!* t4v ’ ITI> -. ife nor« /
**o *-* /
r JRopr ’Sydney I
**& c«j4S. 1 * 00.; /
ot *°. ®**t %**, /
I
7
*
1
► St


X*
the FLAT FIFTY
'and better 7
i
m
mm
■M
mmmx
H
SSi«
■
igSi;
•: ;x
>$*:
*
>W
m
mm
SiSS
Mis
SS
dftvSSKJSSSSSfSsSSS
igspgB
S««
llil
WAW..VR
is
Sgsk
mz
m
•mm
m
fftS
m
m
m
<<<<■■
m
mm
S^Ar
m
*r
V-
NEW HANDY
/ PACKING
( Two Twenty- fives)
FULLY
ROUNDED
CORN ERS
Although many “flat 55 tins of fifty
cigarettes have made their appearance,
it has been left to “COUNTRY
LIFE 55 to produce one that is really
improved —“and better 55
Here, now, is a really up-to-date,
convenient package. It disappears into
coat or hip pocket, while the simple
inner packing preserves your “Country
Life 55 Cigarettes in all their perfection.
At all tobacconists.
The Improved
FLAT FIFTY
(f(ind to the pocket)
fit 1
23 M Yb&V-
and tins oFIOO
sdf
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
Made in Your Own Country at The
Garden Factory—Raleigh Park —
by W. D. & H. 0. WILLS
(. AUSTRALIA ) LTD .


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers*
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
? current rates. ,
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
HOW MANY TIMES ?
How many times have you promised someone near and dear
that you would, for a mutual purpose, save your money?
How many times have you promised yourself that the next big
opportunity would find you prepared?
How many times have you admitted the wisdom of saving habits
and then left the other fellow to do the saving?
Does it mean anything to you that in Australia there are several
million other fellows steadily saving their spare cash and beating you
to the big opportunity?
-Take a Savings Account into partnership—profit is assured.
:‘;\‘ ' ' ' '
(floihraonwealib saviito« JBanh of Bustralia
, (Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
m
Meet WIN, FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/d per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner d
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive tariff from 13/6
per day, or £4/4/- weekly. Special quotations for
sporting bodies, etc. Situated right opposite Spencer
Street Station; no taxi fares; railway porter carries
baggage across if necessary. Please write for
detailed tariff card. Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is
sufficient address. ’■
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
THE QUALITY POLISH
KIWI
‘Ngatik” :sH;enare, who' owns a launch and
caters for the tourists who pursue .the mako
and the swordfish in the Bay of Islands
(M.L.), was waiting for an English sport
who had hired his boat for the day. “I
think the sea is too rough,” said the English-
man. “Oh, no. I got te charm,” and Henare
displayed an arm with “Britannia Rules the
Waves” tattooed on it. “That’s all right, but
if we do capsize the sharks will get us.”
HIS DISTURBED DREAMS.
“Blime, Arnold, yer very restless!”
“Yairs. Got this blamed insomnia again. Keep wakin' up every few days."
“No fear,” chortled Henare, “I got te.charm
for tat too.” On the other arm the inscrip-
tion read “America Won the War.” “No
shark swallow tat,” pronounced the native
with an air of finality.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A strange accusation was made
against the stumpy-tailed lizard at an Agri
you’re the desiccated ringer. I’ve known
cows what rode on the saw, but you!—you
damn well drag yer feet on the ground as
well!”
* * * *
“Piecrust”: Dad was in Regan’s pub when
Bill the squatter dropped in. He hadn’t
seen Dad for five years, and insisted on
shouting. “They tell me you’re doing pretty
well,” he said. “I met a bloke from Wagga
who told me you made a thousand quid in
two months out of steers. Said you’d got
’em from the Territory and fattened ’em
up.” “Well,” drawled Dad, “he wasn’t quite
right. I didn’t get ’em from the Territory,
I got ’em off the bloke next door. And
cultural Bureau conference m S.A.; that it
eats the tops off the young pine-trees now-
being generally.planted. Hale, of the Adelaide;
Museum, however, gave it a good character
on the whole, as eating mainly insects, toad-
stools and sundry kinds of berries.
* * =>•• *
“Unity”: One of the most exciting church
services I ever attended was held in Brown’s
woolshed, away down in the
Muriwai district of Maori-
land. The Archdeacon was
travelling through, and
agreed to preach, and the
countryside for 30 miles
round was represented at
the gathering.: H’ori and
Henare, with a multitude of
wahines, dogs and young-
sters, plus much provender,
also attended, and by the
time the Archdeacon was
ready to begin his sermon
the woolshed was packed.
Prior to the text being given
out two self-constituted war-
dens arose and softly opeped
the big doors at either side,
revealing an array of som-
nolent hounds on the grass
outside. Suddenly there was
a stir, a bristling of hair,
as an outsize rat leapt from
a wool-bale and skeltered
across the shed. Seven dogs
of varied sizes, breed and
hue dashed after him, and
the Archdeacon’s text was
jost in uproar. The rat,
faced with a further army
of dogs at the opposite door,
doubled back with another
halfrdozen after him, and
dashed in among the con-
gregation, the feminine por-
tion of which promptly
shrieked and mounted forms.
Amidst a terrific commotion
of barks, yells and crashes,
the men essayed to clear the
shed, which had the effect of
turning the attention of the
dogs to each other and start-
ing-sundry dog-fights, during
which several old ladies had
to be escorted outside to a
less exciting atmosphere.
Two people were bitten in
the melee. • and . the . dog ,
casualties were considerable.
The only two - who kept en-
tirely calm were the Arch-
deacon and the rat,, the latter
finding a safe haven early in the chas. .
,t V i !*J ■ .* *
. “Wallaby”: Choom was a hopeless case
»>on the- crosscut. He pushed and >wobbled
and threw his weight on dfic saw, as if
endeavoring to hold down: a steer. Dad had
tried to mend 'hiss'.ways’ a ’ dozen times,
without resulfs. f 'A series of snortsqtortended
a rising storm. Let'ting go' the handle.! Dad
straightened up fiercely. “Gripes!” he
roared, slatting; the sweat off his forehead
with a calloused forefinger.--; “Of all the
bla'nky dashed crimson mugs on a saw,
HELPING HIM OUT.
YOUNG PROBATIONER (just up from college ): “O Thou Omnipotent, Thou Omniscient,
Thou Omnipresent—what shall we call Thee!”
OLD WILLIAM HENRY POLGLASE : “Call ’un ’Eavenly- Faather, m’son!”
they wasn’t steers; they was sheep.” “Well,'
anyway,” said’Bill, “whatever they were it
• was good going to make a thousand in two
months.” : “’E couldn’t have give it to yer
• right,” said Dad. “I had to keep ’em two
years. And it wasn’t a thousand—-it was
only a ’undred.” ' He finished his mug and
started . for the door. “Just as well, too,
for I didn’t make it—l lost it!”
* * * *
- “Hie”: The cabled news that a flock of
Hungarian geese had got blotto after drink-
ing wine from a staved cask reminds me
that, outside man, it is difficult to find a
prohibitionist in nature. Pigeons and fowls
will get tight on spirit-soaked grain, and will
seek more on recovery. Horses, dogs and
cattle soon acquire a taste for strong drink,
while the esteem in which elephants and mon-
keys hold it is a commonplace. I knew a
circuit Judge who, after dinner, delighted
to fill the large green frogs known to all
Australians with brandy from a teaspoon,
and then make merry over the judicial
gravity of their attempts to hop. Flies and
bees, of course, are notable examples of
tippling in the insect kingdom, and other
examples could be quoted by the score.
**- * *
“Yon Schnapps”: Neither “T. 8.” nor
“Tamornie” (B. 26/3/’3O) has grasped the
correct technique of cooling beer in the
absence of ice or a canvas waterbag—the
latter, by the way, one of the best going.
I first witnessed the process at Herbertshoe,
in what was then Neu Pommern. In reply to
orders in pidgin from my host, the “boy”
brought along a pail, two brown-paper bags
full of something and two long-necked bottles
of Black Munich. Emptying the bags into
the pail, which was half-full of water, the
acolyte plunged in the two bottles, and hold-
ing them by their necks swizzled them round
and round for a couple of minutes. Accord-
ing to my host the necessary ingredients be-
side the pailful of water and the beer were
“zalt undt zal ammoniag.”
* Hs * *
“Larrapinta”: When winter comes the
field mice, that have been living on the fat
of the land ever since the crops ripened,
start to feel the pinch of poverty. They
hunt around for a,good spot to spend the
winter, and one of the most favored is the
inside of a beehive. A starved mouse has
no trouble in squeezing through the hive
entrance at night, when the bees are clustered
closely together, and once inside the un-
invited guest is very comfortable. The mat
above the frames provides a comfortable
nest; the bees’ winter stores of pollen and
honey make good provender, and soon the
mouse is so 'fat that he cannot leave the
hive. So he .stays there until, in the spring,
the' -beekeeper discovers him. Then retri-
bution, in the form of a painful death,
overtakes the mouse. The beekeeper drops
the cover back into place, closes the hive
entrance with a strip of wood, and starts
to bump the hive on the ground. This causes
the angry bees inside to race about; they
discover the mouse, and in go their stints.
A horrible squeaking informs the beekeeper
that the mouse is being stung to death; he
lifts the cover for a second, and a pain-crazy
mouse, literally smothered in bees, races out
to die before it has travelled far. It’s cruel,
but it’s the only sure way of killing the
mouse, which has done a lot of damage and
would repeat the trick if you let him go
free.
* * * *
“Delia”: Here is something for the
Abo. Council to chew over. Naturalists have
been having a row about it in Brisbane. A
white leghorn hen, which had been looking
rather under the weather, the other day
produced, instead of an egg, a fully-developed
still-born chicken. The incident is authen-
ticated beyond all argument. There was no
trace of a shell, and in any case the freak
must have been incubated within the mother,
as are the eggs of some of the snakes, and
fishes. Since birds and the reptilia come from
the same original stock, the wiseacres are
arguing as to whether the happening was
a reversion to prehistoric methods of repro-
duction, or just plain fluke.
* * .v *
“E.S.”: Travellers on wayback roads
usually stop for a chat with everybody thev
meet, or perhaps to ask about the road or
the next waterhqle. Horses get so used to
the custom that they pull up of their own
accord. When they see a traveller approach-
ing they cock their ears and quicken their
pace; and when they meet another horse
they greet it with a friendly neigh and pull
up with mutual sniffs. If a rider happens to
be in a hurry and doesn’t stop, the horse goes
on reluctantly and with an injured air.
Bullock teams stop when two teams meet.
If the driver says, “Good day,” his team
stops dead and then sidles over to the pub.
(Continued on page 25.)
THE ROAD TO GALLAGHER’S.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Along the road to Gallagher’s the bluebells
star the grass,
And magpies fling their wildest, maddest
flutings as you pass;
The glossy foals go flying with the brood
mares close behind ;
There’s not a sad thing showing nor a dark
thought in the mind.
You jog alone there, thinking of the merry
blue-eyed girls—
Bridget with the freckles and Colleen with
the curls.
When the boys come up from Cameron’s,
tanned and lithe and strong,
The air’s a-sparkle with their jests, and
mellow with their song.
They like a dance at Gallagher’s—just all
the old-time things,
When feet are quick as time and every hour
has silver wings !
I often think the very sunlight shining there
is rife
With rippling fun and melody and simple
joys of life.
The grey horse knows the road—he pulls
and frets upon the rein ;
He’d take it in his sleep, I think, and bring
me back again.
Just halfway there’s a silky-oak; close by
the palings lean
To let the scarlet zinnias thrust their faces
in. between.
I love the road to Gallagher’s; the sky looms
bluer there. , - ,
There’s fragrance all about the house and
magic in the ,air. .
All roads lead to Gallaghers, the pleasant
place, the green,' ' ,
To Gallagher’s, to Gallagher’s—and little
shy Colleen!
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


Six lines of
Reserve Strength in
The secret of Dunlop’s greater
mileage lies in wonderful reserve
strength at six vital points.
1. The Dunlop Tread , deep
wide clean cut for perfect
traction gives longer life.
2. The Dunlop Cords , exclusive
—super strong —specially made
by Dunlop; giving stronger cas-
ings, positively insulated with
heavy rubber coating.
3. The Cushion Rubber , non-
heating, elastic rubber to ab-
4. Balanced Side-walls , scientifi-
cally tapered from the tread to
distribute shocks over larger
area.
5. The Rim Strip , tough, extra
cushion of rubber at base for
added protection from rim
flange and bad roads. Exclu-
sive to Dunlop.
6. The Beads , heavy high tensile
steel wire embedded in special
Dunlop bead structure, carry
the extra load. Buy Dunlops
ē


RUPTURE,
JUFFEREIU /
©J
Know security of body and peace
of mind by wearing Denyer’s
Elastic Truss —the truss with the
patent water pad. You’ve never
known such comfort, freedom and
effective support as is provided
by this dependable appliance.
Trusses also made specially to order
for individual requirements.
Write for Free Pamphlet.
Single 30/- Double 40/-
DEN Y E R BROS.,
Dept. 1, 267 George Street,
Sydney.
|o^ s * n
De^i'ee
tkebenefits for wkicK
Cain is famous
£C«S
d
sdf
oST
HOLLAND GIN
ir
w
-Vt5
Weight
and
Quality
are factors in the
value of the stock. But purchasers’ business is to
Duy as cheaply as possible. Winchcombe Carson’s
business as salesmen is to see that their clients get
full value. And in that regard they are consistently
successful. Their energy, knowledge and determina-
tion in making sales are a complete safeguard for
owners’ interests.
CONSIGN CATTLE, SHEEP, LAMBS, TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTO>
Homebush Yards, or Enoggera Yards,
Sydney, Brisbane.
“Mundowie”: Whether Tibooburra (N. S.
Wales) has a population of 7 or 70,000 at
this time I wot not, and I’m not prepared
to contradict the members of the Council
who have been arguing the point. But when
I knew it it was an oasis in a thirsty
land, and dependent to a pathetic extent
THE EXPLANATION.
THE BOSS: “But I distinctly remember giving you an afternoon
off to attend your grandmother’s funeral some time ago.”
ODDIXW BOY: “That is so, sir. Despite the opposition of the
family, grandfather married again.”
on the outside world for supplies of beer.
Tib. remembers, if it still cherishes its thirst
and the thirst hasn’t swallowed up its
THE PROOF.
“No, you don’t, Timothy Dogwatch, you old scoundrel! You can’t deceive your
poor wife. You’re running after some other woman — you’ve been a-varnishin'
your wooden leg!”
memory, the time when the Royal pub ran
out of supplies just before the races and
ordered six casks from the brewery at Broken
Hill. Bill the carrier delivered the casks
all right, but one was half-full, two were
a quarter full and the other three were
empty. Bill put it down to evaporation, the
heat having been terrific, but under stern
cross-examination he recollected being stuck
on a dry sandhill on his birthday. “An’
maybe some of it leaked,” Bill added. “The
blazin’ sun we ’ad would ’ave sprung the
caulkin’ of a ship.”
* * * *
“Runa” : My youthful days were spent on
a station in the
Poverty Bay dis-
trict of M.L., where
' two of the shep-
herds were twin
brothers from the
Highlands. When
Donald and Dugald
arrived they “had
not the English,”
but in a year or
so they acquired a
working knowledge
of that foreign
.tongue. Donald was
a most abstemious
soul, but Dugald
early succumbed to
the lure of the
township on pay-
day, and was
usually miss i u g
when dusk came
on. Then anyone
coming back from
town might meet
an anxious-looking
little Scot riding
towards the metro-
polis, who would
stop his horse and
engage in a diffi-
cult conversation
which always
ended up with
“And would you see
Tugald in town ?”
Dugald had usually
been see n, and
after a long pause
would come “And
would she pe
tight?” As “she”
was invariably ex-
ceedingly tight by
sundown, Donald
with a sigh would
amble off the 20
weary miles to
town to collect his
erring twin and
bring him safely
home. But one
night while Donald
had a broken leg
nobody collected
Dugald, and a bolt-
ing horse came
home without its
rider. It was a
heart-broken twin
who took the next ship to Scotland to tell
the old folk in the shieling about the sair
mishap.
one remount gained
a reputation as an
outlaw, and when
Warrant - Officer
Bloggs, who was a
long way fro m
being the world’s
leading equestrian,
was about to
mount it, Chiller
thought he would
stay the slaughter.
“You’d better leave
him,” he said.
“He’s sure to get
away with you.”
“That’ll do me!”
replied the daunt-
less Bloggs. “The
last five blankards
got away without
me!”
* *
“Melos”: After
many years’ un-
remitting practice,
our magpie mimick-
ed most sounds of
the locality, from
the cackling of hens
to Dad’s “Now,
then, boys get a
move on—it’s get-
ting late!” An
accident in later
life left the bird a
cripple, and every
morning we carried
her to the garden,
returning her
nightly to a small
box in the pantry.
The monotony of
this was broken
one Christmas,
when a cask of
home-brewed beer
discarded its bung
violently. Awaken-
ed by the explosion,
we rushed forth,
just as Mag was
“Hayband”: Black swans taken to Eng-
land continue to breed to Australian time-
table. The first of them were transferred
over a century ago, and the latest descen-
dants are thus at about the 50th generation.
Nevertheless, eggs and cygnets continue to
arrive in the springtime of Australia, which
is in the depth of the bitter English winter.
Similarly, Australian eucalypts, which have
been transplanted the world over, disregard
the local season (when it differs) and flower
in the Australian spring.
* * # *
“Leamington”: General “Chiller” Brand
had an eye'for a good horse —and a bad one.
During a riding school at Broadmeadows,
floating out gardenwards on the breast of
the foamy liquid. As she passed, we were
treated to a vigorous “Now, then, boys,
get a move on!”
* * * *
“Ochre” : The liveliest meeting of protest
against the new import restrictions was
held in Twittum’s bird shop in Sydney, and
was attended by a large and representative
gathering of canaries. The chairman, having
rapped on the bars of his cage for order.
announced briefly that the business before
the assemblage was the action of Man
(Cries of “Shame!”) in debarring from entry
to the country supplies of canary seed. (Con-
sternation and uproar.) He moved that
Man be declared black. An elderly learned-
looking bird, largely streaked with green,
opposed the motion. “Last year,” he said
“3!),9971b. of canary seed, rape and hemp were
imported.” (Cheers, and a voice: “I always
suspected it was adulterated.”) Continuing,
the speaker said “that was only one side of
the picture. In the same year, 9871 b. of
canary seed, rape and hemp were exported.
I Cries of “Shame!”] That showed that the
seed could he and was being grown in Aus-
tralia. There was no need to fear a famine.
Let all canaries keep their heads in this
grave national crisis, and even if they had
to come down to groundsel [Murmurs of
dissent], let them cheerfully co-operate to
save the nation. Anyway, the Man Twittum
had 731 b. 7oz. of canary seed in store.”
(Cheers.) The meeting closed with the sing-
ing of “For He’s a Jolly Good Fellow” in
honor of Mr. Twittum.
* * * *
“FY7”: Let me nominate the Australian
gidya for the evil-smelling tree stakes (B.
26‘/3/’3O). Just before rain or just after
its extraordinary and unique effluvium per-
meates the whole countryside. I put in a
long period years ago on a Ba’rcoo station
which carried a good deal of gidya scrub,
and have seen newcliums as much overcome
by their first experience as if they were in
the middle of the Bay of Biscay. Blackall
(C.Q.) still cherishes the story of the Eng-
lish jackeroo who decorated the school of
arts hall for the annual racecourse ball with
gidya boughs and red calico. The grey-
green and scarlet scheme was voted delight-
ful by early arrivals, but presently rain set
in. Helped by the heat of the kerosene
lamps, the gidya soon cleared the floor, and
even the supper found no consumers. Curi-
ously enough, gidya wood has a pleasant
scent which increases, like that of cherry-
wood, if the timber is rubbed.
Jj: * * :J:
“Pick”: The following particulars con-
cerning the best opossums grown in N.S.W.
—those of the Southern Monaro tableland —
are given for the benefit of A. S. le Souef,
of the Taronga Zoo (B. 2/4/’3O) and other
inquirers. ’Possums prefer the ribbon-gum,
if there are no native willows in the neighbor-
hood. When first their skins became market-
able, in many places on the Oak Ranges
WHY HE WAS IN THE CHAMPION CLASS.
THE NEW MINISTER: “My friend, I’m sorry to hear you waste
much time at the public house?”
THE VILLAGE HEAVYWEIGHT (amazed and protesting): “Me waste
time? Why, blime, Boss, I sink a pint quicker’n any other
man in the place!”
20 or 30 to the acre were taken. Under a
bluff facing Mt. Cooper two hunters cap-
tured 60 from an area less than two acres
in extent. ’Possums often live miles from
water. At night they suck the dew from
leaves and grass for their drink. They are
not nomads, and do not travel after flower-
ing trees. Like the dingo, foxes prey upon
the ’possum; but the fox is the worst enemy,
because he can climb the trees to explore
the hollows.
LARRY AND BOB AND ME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Through the haze that gleams o’er the
western plains
And dances o’er rift and rut,
Where the hot winds sweep and the red sand
rains
By many an empty hut;
Where floods come down in a night or day
And drive us from track to tree,
We tramped away from the back of Hay—
Larry and Bob and me.
On run and road, in the shed and yard,
And even at growin’ spuds,
They used to say that our luck was hard,
And some of them called us duds
At missin’ jobs and the things worth while.
Yet this I will guarantee:
There’s few that smile in a thousand mile
Like La*rry and Bob and me.
Far hills look greener, and thus the tra«ck
Is lit by our nightly fires ;
The swag has a lease on each bending back—•
Lord knows when the lease expires!
Our luck is out on the overland,
And though many a shed we see,
There’s never a stand with the shearing band
For Larry and Bob and me.
For a year we went —and it’s three years now.
And we promised them all we’d write;
But we can’t agree to a “post” somehow,
And they know how we used to skite.
Our address just now is at Emu Peak,
Where close by the track lie we;
It will go next week down the Toompine
Creek
With Larry and Bob and me.
They’d like us .home, but as duds o’ men
Our chances of home are small;
If we can’t go back with a pile—well, then,
We’ll never go back at all.
We’ll write next job, and we’ll tell old dad
We’re doin’ most handsomely,
Each rovin’ lad on a drovin’ prad—
Larry and Bob and me.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Returned soldier, N.S.W., passed Junior Uni.
exam., wants book-keeping position.—s79l.
Law clerk and book-keeper, 15 years’ exp., wants
position in country or in Islands.—s 793.
Lift-driver, Sydney, fully qualified, non-smoker,
wants position.—s 797.
Bricklayer (28), Sydney and Melbourne exp,,
used to all classes of work, wants job anywhere in
country, N.S.W. —5806.
Ex-bank manager, Sydney (38), with Eastern
mining exp., desires position clerical, accountancy,
interviewing, etc., anywhere.—sBo4.
Certificated steam-engine driver and motor
mechanic; 20 years’ exp. long-distance transport,
wants j0b.—5787.
Station overseer (27), single, wide exp., bushman
and horseman, can repair cars, engines, windmills;
also knowledge book-keeping, wants position Nor’-
west Aus. or N.T. —5834.
Draughtsman, Sydney, mechanical, structural and
survey, Main Roads Board exp., seeks position or
casual work. Go anywhere.—sB46.
Grazier’s daughter (20), N.S.W., wants position as
companion or nursery governess; can teach music and
French and drive car. —5788.
Returned soldier (38), Sydney, wants job as clerk
or storekeeper. Refs. —5857.
L;vdy (32), over 14 years in last position, desires
position in city office or country store, or as
station book-keeper or companion-help. Anywhere.
—5858.
Scot (25), all-round knowledge of railway and
reservoir construction, can drive car, truck or
tractor, wants work anywhere:—sB6s.
Well-educated man (28), N.S.W., wants work, any
description, 255. and keep.—sB69.
English lady, N.S.W., wants position as help or
companion in home with happy environment. —5766.
Young man (25), long commercial exp., good at
figures, wants job. Go anywhere. Refs. —5779.
Whereabouts of N.S.W. breeder of blue cattle-dogs
named Craddock. —5774.
Whereabouts of Messrs. Gilles and Walters, late
of Glenlossie Stud Farm, Werribee, Vic. —-5786.
To buy Dunderdale’s “Australian Tales of the
Bush” (1893), “Book of the Bush” (1898), and
“Prairie and Bush” (1891) ; Esson’s “Dead Timber” ;
Barron Field’s “First Prints of Australian Poetry”
and Tompson’s “Lyre of a Native Minstrel.” —5771.
Words of verses, “Decensus Averni” and “Nine
Miles from Gundagai.”—s7Bl.
To buy old books, magazines, documents, letters,
manuscripts and newspapers, dealing with early
convict life in N.5.W.—5776.
Business man wants congenial companion for one
week motor tour Nor’-w’est N.S.W. Expenses about
15s. per day. Journalist or‘ author preferred.
—5848.
To buy “Dissertation on Cubics,” by Sir Isaac
Newton, or where obtainable. —5825.
Exchange, Sydney, lace-making machine, with in-
structions and books, for black orpington pullets.
—5832.
Whereabouts of Beldomero Pinsach, lived North
Melbourne, 1912-15. May be in North Vic. or
Q’land.—sB42.
All ex-members Ist Light Horse Regiment (A.1.F.)
to send names and addresses to E. D. Campbell,
hon. sec., Reunion Assoc., Box 1336 J, Sydney.
To buy Sykes’s “The Ox,” recent edition. —5852.
To buy London “Punch” of Jan. 22, 1930. —5855.
Partner, able to drive motor-boat, to accompany
business man on commercial expedition bear Sydney.
Share expenses. No capital required.—sB66.
Information Sought.
What are the qualifications required of
applicants for membership of the N.S.W.
mounted police?■ —ss7o.
Not less than sft. 9in. in height and list,
in weight, over 20 and under 27, except in
the case of returned soldiers, when the age limit
is 30. Preference is given to single men,
who must be good horsemen and possessed
of a good knowledge of bush life and stock
in general. A candidate must produce his
birth certificate and not less than three
references as to character. The educational
test consists of simple dictation from a news-
paper and elementary rules of arithmetic,
including weights and measures.
(1) How to get a course of training to
qualify as an inspector of nuisances and
sanitation? (2) Cost and period of train-
ing?—s734.
(1) Sydney Technical College has a cor-
respondence course. Make application per-
sonally to the superintendent for enrolment.
(2) Three pounds a year for two years.
(1) What is the best white'paint to use
on fibrolite? (2) How can mildew be re-
moved from a fibrolite house wa11? —5751.
(1) Either fiat oil bound white or mill
white, mixed with raw linseed oil in propor-
tions of 1 pint to 141 b. of paste paint. A
more durable finish can be obtained by using
one coat of cement sealer and one or two
coats of cement and waterproof paint. If
cement sealer is used as a first coat with
any of the paints mentioned blistering will
be prevented. (2) Clean the wall, remov-
ing all traces of mildew, and when dry apply
one coat of cement sealer and as many coats
of cement and waterproof paint as are
required to give an even surface.
(1) Does the N.S.W. Dept, of Alines
grant financial assistance to erect a battery
or reduction plant? (2) In what manner
does it-aid prospectors? (3) llow does one
apply for help? —s676.
(1) Yes, to the extent of 75 p.c. of the
cost on approved applications. (2) Assist-
ance is also granted to sink, drive, etc., on
approved sites at rates equivalent to half
cost. (3) Write to the department for an
application form.
What does a banded anteater look like,
where is it to be found, and what does it eat?
—5906.
Its size is that of a rat or squirrel; it has
a light, graceful body, broad head and elon-
gated sharp muzzle, pointed ears, long,
flexible bushy tail, and rather slender limbs,
the hind pair longer than the fore. The
rather coarse fur is reddish on the upper
surface, darkening behind and crossed by
nine bands of white; a white band occurs
over the eye; the lower surface is pale yel-
low. The fore limb has five clawed digits,
the hind limb only four. The teeth are
remarkable on account of their number,
which is greater than in any other mar-
supial or mammal except the American arma-
dillo and certain cetacea. The female has
no pouch. The marsupial anteater is found
only in certain districts of S.A. and \\ .A.
It is not nocturnal, but licks up its food,
mainly ants and other insects, by daylight.
(1) Best method for an amateur to use
in snaring ’possums. (2) How to make a
trap or snare? (3) How to skin and dry?
—5716.
(1) and (2) The snare mostly used is
a pole set at an angle of 45deg. against fre-
quented trees, having attached about mid-
way a copper wire with a running noose.
One end of the wire is twisted round the
pole, the other stands up above the pole, and
is bent over so as to suspend a noose so that
when the ’possum runs down the pole he
puts liis head in the noose, tumbles off and
is hung. The best snare is made by twist-
ing three strands of hank twine and one
piece of fine wire. (3) Skin by opening
down the centre of the underpart, and under
the fore and hind legs. Then peg out. and
the skins will dry like sheep pelts. They
may be cured with a wash made of lib. alum
and 4oz. salt to lgal. of water. If skins are
to be stored for some time they should be
painted with a solution of arsenate of soda
in the proportion of |lb. to lgal. of water
to keep away pests.
Has a N.S.W. shire council which is trus-
tee for a park authority to grant on lease
or other terms portion of the park for the
erection of a private school without refer-
ence to the Minister for Local Government
or other authority? —ss6s.
To do so would be illegal, and the Minis-
ter certainly would not authorise such action
in any circumstances. For the law on the
matter see Part XIII, N.S.W. Local Govern-
ment Act 1919, and Ordinance 48 made
thereunder.
When will the new highway between New-
castle and Sydney bo open for traffic— s4ls.
The date of opening is dependent on the
placing of the ferries in commission. The
docks at the Hawkesbury River are under
construction, and provided nothing unforeseen
occurs it is anticipated that the highway
will be opened towards the end of May.
(1) What are prospects of work in
Maoriland for a laborer? (2) Which dis-
trict would you recommend? (3) Best
time to go there?- —5690.
(1) and (2) There is much unemployment
in N.Z. in all districts. (3) There is more
employment offering during the summer
months than in the winter.
(1) What is the N.S.W. Education Dept.’s
Vocational Guidance Bureau, and how does
it operate? (2) How many pupils pass
annually through State commercial schools?
(3) Of these, how many follow commercial
occupations on leaving? (4) How much
does commercial education cost annually?
—5563.
(1) It gives psychological tests to pupils
for the purpose of ascertaining their fitness
for various occupations. As far as possible
pupils are assisted into occupations which
the tests show them most suitable to fill.
(2) The enrolment for 1929 was 2233. (3)
Twenty-six per cent. (4) Can’t say. Com-
mercial education is given at the ordinary
primary schools, and is interwoven with
primary school work.
(1) Where in Sydney could I learn to
blend tea? (2) How long would it take to
learn? —5744.
(1) You would have to get employment
in the blending department of one of the
tea cos. (2) About five years.
(1) Good locality for kangaroo shooting
in W.A.? (2) What prospects for a fair
rifle shot? (3) In what months of the year
do skins fetch the best prices? —s469.
(1) About Geraldton, Mt. Magnet or
Meekatharra, in the Murchison district, and
round Carnarvon. (2) Average cheques are
£lO to £l5 a week at this time of the year.
(3) From June to November, when the
winter skins are coming forward. Winter
skins generally make Is. per lb. more than
summer ones.
In whose memory is the Alenin Gate
memorial ? —5701.
It bears an inscription “To the armies
of the British Empire who stood here
[Ypres] from 1914-1918, and to those of
their dead who have no known grave.” The
names of 56,000 officers and men are incised
in stone panels. Of the names, 6160 are
those of members of the Australian forces.
(1) In my will can I, living in N. S.
Wales, leave all 1 possess to my three daugh-
ters and make no provision for my wife and
son? (2) How old must my son be before
I can ignore him in mg will? —5768.
(1) If you make no provision for your
wife and she is destitute she may apply to
the Court to make provision for her out of
the estate you leave. (2) The same applies
to your son.
(1) Can a N.S.W. shire council legally
demand rates 12 months in advance? (2)
If not, paid, within three months from, issue
of notices, can the council legally charge
interest on unpaid rates? (3) Can it charge
sanitary and garbage rates on a house that
is not occupied? —6ss6.
(1) Section 139-of the N.S.W. Local Gov-
ernment Act, 1919, provides that every rate
shall be made and levied for one year, com-
mencing on the first day of January next
preceding the making thereof, and Clause 24
of Ordinance No. 5 under the Act states
that the council shall make the general rate
within the first three months and may levy
it at any time thereafter within the year.
(2) Section 158 of the Act provides that if
rates are unpaid at the expiration of three
months from the due date, the amount due
shall be increased by 7 per cent. The rate
is not due until one month after the service
of the rate notice. (3) Yes.
My grandfather, who died about 20 years
ago in N. S. Wales, possessed considerable
property in Manchester, and I believe it is
held in Chancery. (1) How could I find
out? (2) If it is, and I could establish that
I was the next-of-kin, would there be much
difficulty in collecting such amount or por-
tion of it? —5792.
Write to Assistant-Paymaster-General,
Supreme Court Pay Office, London, supply-
ing him with your grandfather’s name, voca-
tion, former address and any details as to the
property known to you ; and, in the event of
the property having been lodged in Chancery,
ask to be instructed as to the steps required
to establish your title.
(1) Can a power or semi-power detector
be worked off dry batteries? (2 ) What are
the advantages of power detection? (3)
What type of valve is most suitable? (4)
Particulars of circuit? —5808.
(1) Yes. Use 100-120 volts with anode
band rectification. (2) A slight improve-
ment in quality and a reduction of extrane-
ous noise as against a slight loss in sensi-
tivity. (3) Any power valve such as Philips
B 403; Radiotron UXI7IA or Marconi
P625A. (4) Three stages of R.F. are
required followed by an anode-bend detector
and one stage of straight or push-pull power
audio.
(1) Is there to be an open season for
opossums in Vic. during May, June and
July of this year? (2) Are there many ’pos-
sums in Vic.? (3) In what district are they
most numerous? (4) What is the average
price per dozen for winter skins. (5) Would
it be hard to secure country for snaring?
—5754.
(1) Yes. (2) In the 1926 trapping season
approximately half a million skins were
marketed. No reason to think that opos-
sums are less plentiful now than they were
then. (3) They abound all over the rural
portions of the State. (4) Recent prices
for good quality blues have been 70s. to 80s.
per dozen and for mountain skins 30s. per
dozen. (5) There should be plenty of coun-
try available for everyone desiring to take
out a license.
What was the result of the voting among
A.I.F. members on conscription? —sB29.
There were two referenda. At that in
Oct., 1916, 72,399 A.I.F. members voted for
and 58,894 against, 2520 votes being infor-
mal. In Dec., 1917, the voting was 103,789
for, 93,910 against, 1978 informal.
How to get rid of a nest of big bush ants?
—5381.
Dissolve about 3oz. or 4oz. of potassium
cyanide to the gallon of water and pour the
poisoned water down each opening. Handle
the poison carefully, don’t inhale the fumes,
and thoroughly clean out the container after-
wards.
What will be the prospects of the legal
profession in Adelaide in six years’ time?
Worth while qualifying? —496o.
Can’t prophesy. Barrister and solici-
tor are all one in S.A., and the young prac-
titioner can generally earn bread with mort-
gages and such things while he is looking
round for the butter and jam. Much depends
on whether he has any family or other in-
fluence to help in this way. If not, a youth
would do well to look out for some calling
that is less of a gamble.
What is the difference bettceen a dinner
and a banquet, and do the rules of etiquette
differ in regard to them ? —5697.
In Australia the term banquet is hardly
ever used nowadays; in Britain a banquet
is a public feast to which, if it is a very
great affair, the guests enter and are seated
in order of social precedence, and a toast-
master announces each speaker, using the
formula, “Pray, silence, my lords, ladies and
gentlemen, for (Mr. Smith or Lord Blank,
as the case may be).”
How to propagate daphne from a cutting?
—5738.
Try the daphne cuttings now by taking a
straight piece of matured wood, say, about
12in. long, making a clean cut with a sharp
knife near an eye on the end to be inserted
in the ground. Place the cutting about 6in.
in the ground in a semi-shady position, and
firm the ground well around the base of the
cutting. The young points about 3in. or 4in.
long will strike in January if put into pots
in a suitable propagating frame.
(1) Is there a Government Savings Bank
at Grawin opal fields, near Walgett? (2)
llow many stores there? (3) Is there a
good water supply? (4) Population at pre-
sent? (5) Is the field on Grown land?. —5410.
(1) Yes. (2) Two. (3) Yes. (4) About
50. (5) Yes.
Brief details concerning the Republics of
(1) San Marino and (2) Andorra? —5712.
(1) Surrounded by Italy, San Marino, an
independent republic, claims to be the oldest
State in Europe. With 24 miles of frontier
line, it is 38 square miles in area; popula-
tion (1928) 13,013. Chief exports: wine,
cattle and building stone. There is no public
debt. (2) Andorra, perched in the Pyrenees,
is under the joint suzerainty of France and
the Spanish Bishop of Urgel. Area, 191
square miles; population 5231. Pastoral
pursuits are followed.
The leaves of my celery have turned dry,
greyish and crisp, as though withered by
scorching. Can anything be done? —ssls.
Description sounds like “celerv leaf spot
disease,” in which case there will be small
black spots the size of a pin’s point on the
diseased areas. If the spots are present
remove the worst of the affected foliage,
which should be burnt, and spray the plants
with Bordeaux 4-4-50, and again in three
weeks’ time. A similar spraying with tin:
next crop, once when the plants are 6in.
high, and again with the next heavy rain,
will prevent recurrence.
Brief Answers.
F.K. : (1) Apply to the Deputy-Consul
for Australia, 422 Little Collins-street, Melbourne, for
a passport. (2) and (3) If application is made to
the Collector of Customs, Melbourne, for a re-entry
permit, the possession of that document in addition
to a valid national passport will entitle you to return
to Australia within two years without the necessity
of being in possession of £4O landing money or of
obtaining a visa from the British consular authorities
in Austria. (4) Not unless you pay for a return
passage. .. .H.L.D.: No. .. .G.L.D.: (1) “Here Is
Faery” was written by Fumley Maurice. (2) An
immaculate copy is worth double its published price.
(3) Yes, there is a demand for first editions of
Australian W.J.8.: “Torres Strait Pilot,” Thurs-
day Island... .A.C.W.: Submit full particulars, in-
cluding place of employment and work performed
to Dept, of Labor, Spring-street, Melbourne. ...
E. : Write Parke, Lacey and Ilardie, Ltd., 60
Clarence-street, Sydney... .H.M.8.: There was no
transit of a planet in either 1901 or 1902. Probably
what you are referring to is an opposition of Mars
which took place on February 22, 1901 .... .Norse-
man: It has been decided not to print the N.S.W.
Public Service List of Teachers for 1929 . . . . S.E.S. :
From Anthony Hordern and Sons, Brickfield Hill,
Sydney. Price £2 15s J.E.: Get in touch with
J. Albert and Son, 137 King-street, Sydney. A
course of instruction would cost about £3 3s. per
term. . . .G.M.L.: There is no regular market in
Australia or elsewhere for pear 10g5... . W.F.C. :
Consult “Operas Old and New” by D. Page and B.
Billings... .A.D.G.: Suva Chamber of Commerce,
Suva, Fiji, will be able to tell you. .. .F.W.8.: A
copy of the will can be procured from the Registrar
of Wills, Somerset House, London. Cost depends on
length of document but should not be more than a
few shillings. A letter to the executors .under the
will addressed to the London firm might help....
F. : Bronsilaw Malinowski is of Polish birth and
is Professor of Anthropology at London Uni. Address,
School of Economics, Houghton-street, London, W.C.2.
. ...J.M.: Presume you mean the Leonora. It was
wrecked in South Harbor, Strong’s Island, Caroline
Group, March 15, 1874. “Bully” Hayes was the
skipper and Louis Becke her supercargo... .C.L.P. :
Any vet. would perform the operation. .. .J.C.: (1)
Write to him again and say that, having previously
written and received no reply, if he fails to reply
to present communication and furnish satisfactory
explanation you will place the matter before the
Law Institute. (2) The Law Institute of Victoria,
382 Little Coll ins-street, Melbourne. .. .T.0.C.: “In
Primitive New Guinea,” by J. H. Holmes ; “Un-
explored New Guinea,” by W. N. Beaver; “Through
New Guinea and the Cannibal Countries,” by, H.
Cayley-Webster. The more important books dealing
with the territory are in German... .H.D:L.: Consult
“The Distribution and Relations of Educational
Disabilities,” London County Council, 1919.
(2) “Psychology of Special Abilities and Dis-
abilities,” Bronner; and “Experimental Education
—Psychology of the Common Blanches”... .W.D. :
Write N.S.W. Dept, of Agriculture, Sydney, for
leaflet “Abnormalities in the Setting of Fruit”.,..
R.L.: Henrik Ibsen was born in 1828 and died in
1906. His plays can be borrowed from the Sydney
Municipal Library... .R.E.8.: The Futurity Stakes
run at Belmont Park, New York, U.S.A., was won
by Whichone last year, who collected 105,730 dollars.
The Coffroth Handicap run at Tia Juana, Mexico,
was worth 98,250 dollars last year and was won by
Golden Prince A.T.: You’re wrong. Remarque
didn’t gain the 1929 Nobel Prize for Literature, on
account of his “All Quiet on the Western; Front. ’
The prize went to Thomas Mann, a fellow country-
man .... J.F.S.: A widow ' with or without children
may be eligible for payment of a pension under the
Widows’ Pensions Act, N.S.W. Lodge an application
with the Deputy Registrar of Widows’ Pensions
nearest place of abode... .T.P.T.: (1) “Teora.’ (21
Only in manuscript in the composer’s possession.
(3) “Valse Triste,” “Retrospect” and “Cradle Song”
(Nicholson’s, Sydney). (4) Write to any of the
Auckland music shops... .F.0.C.: Moulds for con-
crete pipes are manufactured by Moffatt, Virtue and
Co., Palmer-street, Sydney. Machinery could he
manufactured by any engineering firm to your own
design, but there is no firm manufacturing such
machinery as a stock line. We know of no books on
the subject of concrete pipe-making. .. .E.J,: If you
are in arrear with the rent, the landlord can. hold
the fittings, but if not in arrear and the “plant and
fittings” were installed by you and not an integral
part of the building, you can remove them, unless
otherwise provided in the lease... .0.D.: (1) The
N.S.W. Dividing Fences Act provides in such a case
that the money expended shall be recoverable as
money laid out for the benefit of the non-complying
owner of the adjoining land. (2) Consult the
C.P.S. of the local Court when taking out the
summons G.K.: Rabbit-skins last winter averaged
from 4s. to ss. per lb., but lower prices will prob-
ably rule this winter. The places mentioned are
good rabbit districts. Payment for land to trap on
is a matter for arrangement between trapper and
owner J. 8.: The best top-dressing for pastures in
bone-chewing districts is superphosphate, broadcast
at the rate of lewt. to 2cwt. per acre A.M.:
Your meaning is not clear. A.C. voltage is reduced by
a step-down transformer ; the secondary voltage bear-
ing the same relation to the primary voltage as the
secondary turns bear to the primary turns of the
transformer. In D.C., the voltage is broken down
by means of resistances placed either in series with
the load, or by a potentiometer placed across the
supply...-H.8.5.: No local market for boys’
adventure yarns. English papers like “Chums” and
the “Boy’s Own Paper” buy such stories, and the
Amalgamated Press, Ltd., London, publishes a score
or more of papers to which such stories should
appeal E.A.T.: Depends whether the book was
published on a commission, copyright outright sale,
profit-sharing or royalty basis. If on royalty pay-
ments would depend on rate of royalty, published
price, number of copies sold .and literary agent s
commission (if any). One thousand copies of a
7s 6d novel at a 10 per cent, royalty rate would
bring the author £37 10s. Only an exceptionally
o-ood first novel sells above the 1000 mark
T. 8.: Write IT. M. General Register, Somerset House,
London. Extracts from the records will cost you
ss. Id. each W.M.: There is no law in N.S.W.
which entitles a swagman to kill a sheep for a
meal. .. .J.W.N.: Communicate with your insurer
and forward all medical accounts which may be
served on you to your insurer E.D.C.: The'book
has no value W.W.J.: Fowler’s solution is a
poison and must be obtained from a qualified chemist.
E.N.H.: On a well-managed cocoanut plantation
the average expenses should be 70 per cent, of gross
receipts, but it is difficult to generalise, as so much
depends’ on the class of property, locality and
management.... G.N.: The Q’land Govt, has decided
that there will be no open season for opossum
trapping this year .... S.H.M.: (1) Fawcett’s “The
Banana” is about the best, but refers only to the
tall growing varisties. The Q’land Agriculture Dept.
,- SSU e® gratis a pamphlet “The Banana in Q’land,”
covering wider features. (2) and (3) See pamphlets
issued by Q’land Agriculture Dept R.C.: The
matter is not one for the general executive. It is
, ni . the local branch to decide and you should
approach it. ...J.S.; Writ.. H. M General
Register House, Edinburgh. Enclose ss. 1d.....
(Many others mailed.)


IDEAL W NT R TOUR
<■. !' *■: ': . *.i&\S
■
■ ■
jplHHipi^li
i* -
■Hi
a®:.:n : : : a«»
!-;■■
«■■■
Mill
.
■
' '
£$
-
-y* v vt^ 1
■f
BB /
isiri
Wk MM I
1
i *i«»
,
iiiii
l!
■»8Bi ;;•’ iSIh
jM?|§
&k£!«
r > §IL
NX
«*BMi
■si
*—| - 1
I
illS;
% J» . BW» * • - '
■■MB
■
■- ■ i
■■■■»
iiMB
%
■HI
. J
' ' l
■ ■ : . '. ' -'
a V 5 5
-
£
1
Wk
.
HP :
m
»
\
m
wmmm ■.
I
TRAVEL TO CAIRNS
BY SEA.
“CANBERRA" )
“ORMISTON” (
“MANUNDA”
“ORUNGALV
SAILING FROM MELBOURNE EVERY SATURDAY—Round Trip 26 Days.
*
SAILING FROM SYDNEY EVERY TUESDAY—Round Trip 20 Days.
FOR FULL PARTICULARS, PAMPHLETS, ETC., APPLY
AUSTRALIAN STEAMSHIPS PTY. LTD. ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO LIMITED
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED 1 TlOnir" L.IWII I LU
A.U.S.N. CO. LIMITED
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.


Wool Is Made in
the Stomach
THIS is a fundamental fact that most graziers know.
Although it may not be realised what an important
factor minerals are when taken into the stomach
for the production of high-class, well-grown, good
conditioned wool.
Vita-Lick supplies these essential minerals in the best form.
VITA-LICK LIMITED
Stock Lick Specialists
107 KENT STREET, SYDNEY
17
W
-Jb
m£
.. New Zealand's
Daintiest Delicacy..
Tiny inch-long fish, unique
in flavour .. . found only
in New Zealand’s sparkling
streams, and then for but
three months of the year,
WHITEBAIT is a delicacy
beyond compare. Served
from the can, or fried in
batter, you are sure to
‘rave’ about WHITEBAIT
as do New Zealanders—
who send us these delicately
flavoured, tiny fish straight
from their streams ... in
cans that bear the label
"St. George.”
n
, i
J7l //*
p
Ir vine & Stevenson’s St. Georee Co. Ltd.
Dunedin. New Zealand.
5
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
WASTE OF LUCERNE HAY.
“U. Murray”: Many purchasers of stock-
fodders avoid lucerne hay on account of the
great waste which takes place when the
bales are broken up and fed to stock in the
open. This wastage is chiefly of the most
valuable part —the leaves.
Those who realise how much better lucerne
is for starving stock than ordinary hay may
be interested in this plan. I had a large
tank made of galvanised-iron, only one tier
high. In this I made a very weak syrup of
water and molasses; and in this I placed the
bales the day before I required them. After
they had soaked there a few hours, with the
aid of a light endless-chain I lifted them on
to a platform of sawn timber, whence the
surplus fluid drained back into the tank.
Next day the bales were broken or cut in.
two and turned over to the sheep for final
treatment. By this simple means the wastage
was brought below that of any other fodder;
and the stock evidently liked the hay all
the better for being damp and sweet.
Of course, this plan is of no use for
travelling stock. For travelling stock the
only satisfactory fodder is oats, spread well
on clean, hard ground. Sheep will pick up
every grain under such conditions; and an
ounce or two of such grain will buck them
up as much perhaps as a full feed of hay.
THE ROLLER.
“Disc Harrow” : Good wooden rollers are
getting harder to find every year. One that
will outlast the farm can be made from a
reinforced-concrete drain-pipe. A concrete
roller is considerably heavier than a wooden
one, and if Dobbin is to pull it nine inches
diameter will be enough. For team ex-
tractor use the size can be increased, and it
will then make a billiard-table job of the field.
Six feet is about the right length for work
necessitating close turns. An axle running
right through is best, but if a suitable iron
is not available, wire the two short irons
together inside, and also roughen the inner
surface of the pipe. A piece of wood wedged
across each end holds the axles in place
while the concrete is setting. . Stand the
pipe on end with the bottom axle embedded
in the ground, and put in first a foot of fine
concrete, then fill to within a foot of the
top with coarse stuff, and finish off with
fine again. Ram carefully while filling, and
finally keep wet bags over to retard setting.
ONION-GROWING.
“Hortus”: The main thing is to get the
land free from all weed growth. There is
nothing like a broadcast crop of, say, oats
in the paddock destined for onions. This
does more to eliminate weeds than anything
else. However, this may not be possible in
some cases, and, of course, it is too late to
consider it now. The next best thing is to
keep going two or three months before sow-
ing. Choose a soil well-drained, nice and
loose, with a good even mixture of sandy
and black soil or sandy and red volcanic
noil. Remember the onions that keep best
are those that have been grown on soils
that are not too light.
Deep ploughing is necessary, for onions
are deep rooters. Go as far as subsoil will
allow, but do not interfere with the latter,
especially if it is at all heavy.
After ploughing, in order to get the fine
tilth necessary (and it’s a case of the finer
the better), the land must be rolled, after
it has been harrowed and cross-harrowed,
•if too lumpy. Don’t be satisfied till you
have three or four inches of soil that slips
through the hands easily, on top of a good,
solid, well-worked foundation bed.
Watch the drainage. A badly-drained
paddock is fatal to this crop. If you want
to see what the drainage is like, dig a few
test holes here and there and leave them
open; they will fill up to the height of the
water-table. The latter naturally rises after
heavy rain, but if it stands at within two
to three feet from the surface for several
days it may be generally concluded that
drainage will benefit the land. In any case
it is wise to leave a good deep furrow at
regular intervals, especially in districts of
fairly heavy rainfall.
Watch the time for sowing. It all depends
on the district and climate. Fix on the
hottest part of the year and work back
seven months. This will prove a good
average seed-time in most cases.
Roll well before sowing. See that the soil
is in good condition to roll, or you may
strike trouble. Onions do not thrive unless
they have a firm bed to start in.
There are three methods of sowing: (1)
broadcast, (2) in drills, (3) in seed-beds
for transplanting later.
The first can be dismissed quickly, for
how can a man keep down weeds in a
broadcast crop? The second is getting more
popular, although there is the business of
thinning out to about 6 inches later. Drills,
which must be shallow (3 inch will do),
should be about 18 inches apart. This leaves
a good, sensible space for intertillage, which
must be the first consideration. Amount of
seed required, 31b. The third method, in my
opinion, is the best and most successful in
producing large, solid, fleshy onions. I have
seen it carried out by one of the yearly prize-
winners at the Royal Show, England. Work
up a good seed-bed with a fair sprinkling
of sand —not too much—and roll so as to
firm the bed. Sow seed shallow. When
seedlings are up about the thickness of a
slate pencil, remove carefully and cut off
top-growth and root to about 2 to 3 inches
from the bulb. This pruning is the secret
of success. The plants do not then run to neck
and leaf, and as more nourishment naturally
goes to the bulb, the latter is larger, more
solid and better in every way. Transplant
at intervals of 6 inches; and when plants
start to grow see that the soil is kept moved
between the rows so as not to lose the
ground moisture, which very quickly evapor-
ates if a crust is allowed to form on the
surface. In fact, give the ground as much
intertillage as possible to ensure the best
possible result.
There are many varieties to choose from
and growers have their favorites. Mammoth
Silver King is a good white onion, but the
whites do not keep too well. They are quite
suitable for quick use. Brown Spanish is,
in my opinion, the best variety to tackle
for all general purposes, for not only is it
a great storage onion, but it also is of good
size and flavor.
RAPE.
“Hortus” : This crop deserves fairer con-
sideration, especially in these hard times.
It has so many things in its favor. The
seed is cheap. It takes less time to become
of feeding value than any other crop. It
can, owing to a deep-rooting system, stand
dry spells marvellously. What’s more, after
feeding down and given a slight rest, it pro-
duces a good, vigorous second growth, which
comes along just at a time when green fodder
is required.
Very thorough pre-cultivation is necessary,
as a fine tilth is essential to the proper
covering of the seed, which is small and
requires only about lin. of soil over it.
The soil should be fairly rich, nice and free,
i.e., able to be worked fine and to be kept
loose. A good previous crop is wheat, as
the ploughing-under of the stubble and
accompanying weed-growth will just add
nicely to the crop’s manurial requirements.
If sheep have been put on to the stubble, a
100 per cent, better crop will be the result.
This left fallow for a while will give an
ideal foundation.
It’s best to sow in drills, although some
growers still keep to the broadcasting
method. Rape needs, above all, to be kept
clean, and if the. latter method is carried
out, this cannot be done. The distance
between drills will vary with the purpose
of the crop. One foot apart is far enough
when the crop is going to be used for feeding-
off purposes, and 3ft. is ample if it is to be
cut as green fodder.
There are many varieties procurable, but
Dwarf Essex has stood the test well.
Quantity of seed per acre is about the
same as for swedes, but it will vary (21b.
to 41b.) with the distance between the drills.
Some advise putting the 21b. to 4lb. of seed
in the manure box with some super, and let-
ting the two run through together. Of course,
super, means a larger crop, but careful mani-
pulation will be required. Stop often to give
the mixture a shuffle up.
Sow now. In about two months rape
should normally be ready. Go by the height
of the crop. Don’t turn in the sheep until
it is about one foot high. Work a section
of the field at a time. In the Old Country
we used rape as pasture for rams, which
were hurdled off, the hurdles being moved
according to requirements. Use discretion
about turning the animals on to green feed;
it’s the same as in grazing lucerne, only, as
rape has a far greater water-content than
the former, the rules for pasturing must be
made still stricter. “Bloat” or hoven will
cause a great deal of trouble otherwise. The
super-succulence of rape may at times cause
scouring, but this can be easily remedied by
instant removal of stock affected on to drier
feed.
After each section has been fed-off, great
benefit will be derived from loosening up
ground between the rows, as it is liable to
become hard after the constant trampling.
Don’t permit this hardening of the surface
soil, for it is fatal to rape to lose too much
moisture at this stage. Also a much better
second growth will result if inter-tillage is
carried out.
Rape slightly taints milk, but is a good
cattle food, an excellent pig ration and a
great standby for sheep, especially in the
lambing season.
After the crop is done with, plough remains
under, and these with the liquid and solid
excreta of the stock will do a tremendous
amount of good by enriching the ground for
the succeeding crop.
As to the quantity of feed supplied by rape,
an experiment carried out at Hawkesbury
Agricultural College is interesting. Five
different plots 'were sown down on March
30, and on May 15 they gave yields (roughly)
of 5 tons to 111 tons per acre.' What more
can a farmer desire?
STOPPAGE IN HORSES.
“Tumbe Munda” : I have many a time seen
people with a horse troubled with stoppage
of water, and generally they treat by drench-
ing with spirits of nitre or saltpetre. A
simple way and a quicker if one has a suit-
able hand is to work through the rectum.
First, understand the position of the
organs. The rectum is a passage into which
the last intestine empties, and the dung is
stored or accumulates there until voided.
Immediately below the rectum is the bladder ;
in fact, when the bladder is full the rectum
is resting on it. «
Now wash your hand and arm well, and
trim your finger-nails short and smooth. Rub
olive oil on the v hand and forearm. Then,
bunching the fingers so that the hand comes
to a point, force the hand into the anus.
Considerable force may be needed at the
start; but once the hand is inside the resist-
ance relaxes. Your first job is to clean out
the rectum. Keep raking until it is empty.
Each time your hand gets dry put more oil
on it: it will make your work easier, and
remember you are handling a tender organ
—it is quite possible you will damage it
with a dry hand.
When you get the rectum empty feel gently
with the flat of the hand and points of
fingers for the bladder. As the trouble is
stoppage, this organ will probably be rather
larger than a football. As you work your
hand over, gradually use pressure, with a
slightly rolling or kneading motion. This
will force the urine into the pipe, which
will in turn take up the work by hurrying
it along. It may be necessary to work at
the bladder for several minutes before the
flow starts. As your hand and forearm up
to the elbow are inside the horse, do not get
alarmed when he humps his back and starts
to spread his legs. He is not going to kick.
Just let yourself move with his movement,
and keep up the pressure.
Again, remember the organs are delicate, so
use plenty of oil and be as gentle as possible.
THE CITRUS CROP.
“XSA”: Good mandarins will do well
this year if they are carefully graded and
packed. During early pickings it is impera-
tive that grading should be to color. If
the case is paper-lined throughout, color will
be appreciably advanced by the time the
fruit is opened for sale. Growers should
exercise great care that the fruit has reached
maturity standards, irrespective of color, as
the inspectors get busy during seasons of
heavy supply.
White silettas, being the earliest citrus
on the markets, can either make or break a
grower’s reputation. At their very best they
do not entice consumers, and for this reason
should not be marketed solely because they
have colored up. On several occasions the
citrus market has been ruined for weeks
because growers of silettas have rushed fruits
in too early.
Washington navels are sweet to eat long
before they appear to be ripe, and these
might be artificially colored to induce sales.
I strongly urge growers never to use gas on
any early citrus save navels, as the public
is more alert to artificialities than many of
us think.
Finally, citrus men should take a lead
from the apple-growers, and more generally
institute standard packs. They should also
get busy with the new “Canadian” cases
and attractive labels. Regarding the latter
it is always well to bear in mind one impor-
tant fact, generally ignored by the growers.
The fruit must be up to label standard. By
this I mean that to pack rubbish under an
elaborate label is more than a waste of
money—it is an absurd incongruity, which
accentuates the impression that the contents
are a fair sample of products from that
particular orchard. The best growers have
a special label for inferior stuff.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Four miles out of Gisborne (Vic.), situ-
ated 1600/f. above sea-level, two paddocks
on our farm are infested with couch grass.
One of the paddocks had a spell for 3-2
months, and was ploughed and harrowed
last June. The other was under cultivation
with barley. It is our intention to sow one
of the infested paddocks in grass. (1) What
is the best method of eradicating the couch
grass? (2) Will peas sown thickly eradicate
same? (3 )ls it advisable to sow the couch-
grass paddock with grass? (4) What grasses
should be sown? —s629.
(1) Good results are usually obtained by
fallowing the land and frequently cultivating
it, particularly during the heat of the
summer. The cultivations must be repeated
at fairly short intervals, as an isolated culti-
vation appears to stimulate the growth. (2)
Not likely. (3) and (4) A mixture of 61b.
Wimmera rye grass and 21b. subterranean
clover per acre with lewt. of super, is recom-
mended.
Is the Aberdeen Angus as suitable as the
Devon and Hereford breeds for rough coun-
try in the Gloucester district ( N.8.W .) ?
5567.
The N.S.W. Agricultural Department con-
siders Aberdeen Angus cattle will do equally
as well as the Devon and Hereford breeds
in the Upper Manning and Gloucester dis-
tricts. They are hardy, good foragers, cross
excellently with any breed, and arc* noted
for their early maturing qualities. Obtain
the very latest types of the breed from a
known early maturing strain.
(3) Symptoms of water hemlock poison-
ing in cows? (2) Cure? —5732.
(1) Excessive frothing at the mouth,
gnashing of the teeth, pain, nausea, violent
convulsions, bellowing and groaning as if
in great pain. Death is often sudden. (2)
Communicate with your local stock inspec-
tor, who will investigate the case and advise
according to conditions.
Suitable grass seed for pasture improve-
ment in a New England (N.S.W.) district
where the annual rainfall is 30 in. and the
country of rocky and trap formation?- —5773.
In the autumn scatter the following seed
in sheltered positions, on dug-out rabbit
burrows, in stump holes, against fallen
timber, etc.: Wimmera rye grass, 31b.; sub-
terranean clover, 21b.; sheep Burnet, lib. per
acre.
I have re-soiled my orchard ( citrus ) on
Mangrove Mtn. (N.S.W.) to a- depth of about
2 ft,, which leaves the subsoil a sandy loam
(golden yellow) formation. (1) Would
lucerne, subterranean clover, oats or any other
such crop grow in such a soil? (2) How
much fertiliser must be added, and what
sort? (3) Crop that would sweeten the
soil for future re-soiling? —sso4.
(1) and (3) Neither lucerne nor subterranean
clover could be recommended. Plant a green
manure crop such as vetches or field peas
in the autumn or early winter or cowpeas in
the spring and turn them under. (2) Two
cwt. of basic super, per acre at sowing and
topdress with about 501 b. sulphate of
ammonia per acre a month later.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“XSA”: When harvesting the hard-fruit
crop pull two or three loads before grading
and packing. If this is done the grower will
not find himself left with so many tailings:
besides, he will save several trips to the
orchard to make up odd cases.
“Te Aroha” : If you have a calf suffering
with white scours, isolate forthwith, mix a
raw egg with the milk (give it less than
the usual quantity) and add a tablespoon of
diluted bluestone. Omit the bluestone after
the second feed, but continue with the raw
egg and milk until recovery. Last, but not
least, keep the calf in a warm, clean shed.
“Orange Mechanic” : “Disc Harrow’s” idea
for making cases (B. 12/3/’3O) is anti-
quated. The top of the case-making bench
should be of good solid timber lin. to ljin.
thick, with slots let in for the case boards
to a depth of to fin. If these slots are
cut just a little wider than the thickness
of the boards, and the ends of the slots are
in line and square with each other, the case
will square itself in the making; the cutting
of slots retains the use of the bench for
general purposes. While doing the job slots
should be cut for the f-bushel flat, the
bushel dump and any other cases likely to
be used.
“Disc Harrow” : When working on sticky
ground have a look at the horses’ feet
occasionally. A hard pad of dirt is often
picked up, and causes as much discomfort as
a lump under your own boots.
“Disc Harrow”: If the ploughing gets
behind and night work is necessary, the
Fordson magneto will give ample current for
two lights. Ordinary car spotlights are suit-
able, one to show the way and one to light
up the plough. Connect in series between
the magneto contact point and the bottom of
the coil box.
(Land Page continued on page 31.)


a
1 I
ii.
E
MS
%
lltllljli
ii in
■
. —**•
mm
mm
i
, , ;
...
mmm
m
v. s&asaaa&mi
v 'm
mm
liS*
¥M
■>M
Wmmmmm.
■ %
»- :
wasKssg
sismiS
...
MMi
*S?s
;S:4S«
.
111:11
M
J
/
gs !lllm!
.SI
I
1
#;
v
“Now that you are going to put up a new fence, Bill, why don’t you make a job
of it and use a ‘Cyclone’ Ring-Lock Fence like mine?
"What’s the good of breaking your back sinking post-holes every few yards and
boring half-a-dozen holes to every post like you re doing now?
“It’s not worth it when you can get a ‘Cyclone' Ring-Lock Fence for less cost
than the old style plain-wire fence you re erecting. _
“Look at my fence—those heavy upright wires won’t move an inch. They’re
gripped to the line wires with the ‘Cyclone’ Ring-Lock, and they stay put for
good.”
“Besides, I’ve only put down one post every 22 feet—that’s all I needed—and I
didn’t have to strain each wire separately. It’s easy to erect five chains of complete
‘Cyclone’ Fence in one simple operation, and you only need two holes to each
post."
"Listen, Bill, before you do any more to your fence, why don’t you send to
Cyclone Fence and Gate Co. for an Illustrated Catalogue of Fences and Gates? It
won t cost anything, and will be worth your while. Do it to-day while you think of it.
CycL
fcOCK
FENCE
? "JlomiUhniTS
Ring-Lock Farm
Fence comes to you exactly
as you see it in the picture
above. It is already built for
you, and all you have to do
is to strain it up to the posts.
Sold in 5-chain
rolls, ready to erect
We will lend you a Special “Cyclone”
Fence Strainer Free
Cyclone Ring-Lock Farm Fences are manufactured from
hard-drawn galvanised wire, and are made in various heights
and spacings to suit all classes of stock.
“Cyclone” Fencing does not pass through the posts, but is
tied to the face of the posts with “tie” wire. No staples are
needed. The fence can be taken down and easily moved as
often as you wish. “Cyclone” Ring-Lock Fences will not stretch,
sag, or burn.
The fence illustrated in the picture above is the “Cyclone”
six lines, 28in. high, Ring-Lock sheep and lamb proof fence.
Spacing of wires from bottom: sin., sin., sin., 6in., 7in.; stiff
upright stays are I2in. apart
UlilHl
STIFF
STAY
FARM FENCES
Manufactured Only by
“Cyclone”
Metal Farm Gates
All “Cyclone” Metal Farm
Gates are manufactured from
lfin. or lfin. metal tubing.
All joints are electrically
welded for greater strength.
Upright cables and cross wires
are of heavily galvanised wire.
“Cyclone” Metal Farm
Gates are absolutely sheep-
proof, and will swing easily for
years.
Fully Illustrated
Catalogue Sent
FREE on
Request.
Use the
Coupon. ! |i
CYCLONE FENCE AND GATE CO. PTY. LTD.
189-191 William Street, Melbourne; 24 Jamieson Street, Sydney;
Pirie Street, Adelaide.
COUPON
|P I would like you to send
me, free of charge, your big,
fully Illustrated Catalogue
and Price-list of "Cyclone”
Gates and Fences.
Name
Address _
Bulletin 16/4/ 30, *


Pill!
'
m
m
m
m
m
m
m>.
When
other cigarettes
lose their savour
try
the cigarettes
that always satisfy.
State (xpr^ss
sss
CICARETTtS
MADE- IN LONDON
-*■*—i—
or
ii V
Wit
< vvv^
««%•:•:jni&S
}'■:
0
A
< A.**
7
Jfw >
£25


Apbil
1G. 1030.
i
The Man on the Land* ( continued from page 28.)
Farm Accounts.
STOCK ACCOUNT, —Where livestock is tin* priucipul earning asset, as iu a tl«iry-
or the treatment of the item when pn paring n p. and 1. account requires
considerable care. Livestock account, in a new farm, will start ott by showing on in.
debit side the cost price of the original purchase of livestock, including, expenses
of transport to your farm, being debited with any further purchases during the yci .
and credited with any sales, or stock killed for rations. Purchases will be passed through
the Journal in the usual fashion. Cash Account, or the purchaser s account, will he
debited with any sale, and Livestock Account credited. Rations Account must be
debited and Livestock Account credited with the cost price of any stock killed rut
rations. Rations Account represents an expense, and the balance is transferred to
p. and J. account at the end of the year. ... . . n .
Livestock should be valued at the end of the year on a conservative basis—at cost
price, if the season promises to be a favorable one. and below cost it the outiooK
uncertain owing to drought. The experienced farmer will he the best judge on this point
A profit: should never be anticipated, or taken into account before it is earned, ' atm *
stock on the basis of what you think you will eventually get for it amounts to counting
your chickens before they are hatched. A stock valuation on the low side will gne
you something in hand for next year, which might not be so good as the last u.v
overvaluing your livestock for several successive years, and not allowing sutlieientij '
depreciation on other assets, you may eventually cripple the financial position oi Join
farm, and be obliged to bring in fresh capita) to keep it going.
Supposing vou start oft' your farm on July 1 by buying 2500 sheep at -os. a luaJ
for cash. Droving costs run into £10 Ids. Hd. On September -<* you buy a lurthe
500 sheep a't the same price from S. Shepherd, on credit. On January 22 you sou
250 head at 80s. eac*li for cash; and on April 28, 200 head to Y\ . Jones at <>.s. t>d., on
credit. You kill three sheep a month for rations, keeping a record of them in yom
Diary, and passing an entry each Quarter for the nine sheep thus killed. Ignoring an
the other transactions of the farm, the Journal entries for these particular items an-
as follows ? — -i
JOURNAL. _ 1
Di Or.
July
1
..
Sheep Account, t>r.
To Cash
Being purehaar of ‘-<inO sheep at 2S*. per beau,
cash.
14)
1
1 £3125 U O [
1 |
10 10 8 1
£3125 0 0
July
6
Sheep Account, Dr.
To Cash (Droving Exes.)
Droving expenses on 2500 sheep.
11
1 1
16 10 8
Sept.
25
. ~
Sheep Account, Dr.
To S. Shepherd
Purchase . on credit ol 500 sheep from S.
Shepherd at 25s. per head.
‘14
025 0 0 j
I
025 O 0
Sept.
80
..
Rations Account, Dr.
To Sheep Account
Sheep killed for rations during quarter to date
—9 head at 25s,
J
14 j
1
1
11 5 0
I
11 5 0
Dee.
31
Rations Account, Dr.
To Sheep Account
Sheep killed for rations.
|j 11 5 0
,,
U 5 O
Jan. |
221
Cash Account, Dr,
To Sheep Account
Being t'fiO sheep sold at 80/- per head, cash.
1-1
1
1 375 0 O
| |
375 0 0
Mar.
31 1 Rations Account, L>r.
„ | To Sheep Account
j Sheep killed tor rations.
14
j •
1 ii n o i
'
1
11 5 0
A pril.
28
\V. Jones
To Sheep Account
Being 200 sheep sold at 32s. 6d. per bead
on credit.
1
H,
1
| 325 0 10 |
1 1
| 325 0 0
June
30
Rations Account, Dr.
To Slieep Account
Sheep killed for rations.
114
1 11 5 O
<
11 5 0
JOURNAL.
Dr.
2
Or.
•him* J30| Slicey Account, l>r.
| | Tu P. and L. Account
1 1411 £470 J8 4 |
j £470 13 4
KlIL'P.p (.III DraOU«HRJ nniwu
Dr.
ru
LEDGER.
SHEEP ACCOUNT.
(No. 14)
cv,
.Inly I
1 1
To Cash (2500)
i
£3125 O'
0
Sept.j
30)
By Rations (9)
1
£11
5
0
' 1
0 1
„ „ (Droving)
i
10 16
8
Dec. |
3l|
,, (9)
1
11
O
Sept.
251
,, Shepherd
(500)
i
625 0
0
,Tan. |
221
.. Cash (250)
1
375
0
0
Mar.
31
„ Rations (9)
1
11
5
0
HO
Apr.
281
,, Jones (200)
1
325
0
0
Weaved (7 80)
June|30|
Rations (9)
l
11
5
0
„ P. & L. A/e
2
470 IP,
4
H
„ Mitring (32)
„ On Hand:
(2482)
3102
10
o
(780)
390
0
0
(3780)
£423710
0
(3780)
£4237 10
0
•Inly
1
To On Hand
i
1
bt. fw’d (3262)
£3492 10
0
I
m
mm
A tough, pliant
sports shoe
Exceptional comfort is assured
by the surprising flexibility of
this heavy-soled Abbey Brogue.
Its handsome upper accommo-
dates the foot in a special way.
Every muscle is allowed full
freedom. The instep arch rests
easily under the naturally
curved upper.
Low-cut sides, close-fitting and
smart, and non-chafing heel
further increase its easy-fitting
qualities. No “breaking in” is
necessary.
Three widths per size
Ensuring exact fit. . . .you can
choose narrow, medium or wide
in each full and half size.
ORDER BY POST: State width
as well as size and ask also for
the correct Abbey Polish (6d.
per tin), or a compact cleaning
outfit (2/6).
TAN CALF - - - - 457-
BLACK CALF - - - 39/6
Sports catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPL 172
For Workshop
Home & Farm
3IEVERT
ST °Ckholm
A genuine Sievert Blow Lamp for motorists,
radio work and general use. Every household
and workshop has need of a Blow Lamp at
times. The low price of 7/6 brings the
Sievert within reach of all.
Approximately 5 inches high.
Burns for an hour at one filling.
Supplied with special safety valve and a patent
self-cleaning device.
Petrol can be used down to the last drop.
Directions supplied with each lamp.
rc i u
PTY., LTD.
SYDNEY 51 Bathurst Street
MELBOURNE 582 'Collins Street
76
X
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNE\.
Sayers
ĕ
ė
Seal
Remedy
™k ALL STOMACH WORMS
BLACK DISEASE & FLUKE
The One Remedy Cures All.
Contains Ice. Carbon Tetrachloride per scc. dose,
900 doses to the gallon; about five sheep treated
for about one penny.
INTER-STATE AGENTS:
New Zealand Loan and Merc. Agency, Rockhampton
N. S. Pixley Brisbane
Dalgety & Co Melbourne
Gollin & Co Adelaide
Gollin & Co Perth
King Lawless, Ltd Auckland, N.Z.
Manufactured by
SAYERS, ALLPORT PROP., LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Glass and Metal Syringes, holding scc. and acting as
Measure and Drenching Syringe, 10/6, post free.
RUGS
for
Horses and Cows
CHANDLER’S PRICES DEFY
COMPETITION.
ALL CHANDLER RUGS are
wool checked lined and per-
fectly finished; complete with
1e g straps. Birkmyre
Waterproof Rugs are
strengthened at neck and tail
with leather.
NOTE—AII rugs are measured
along bottom edge.
HORSE RUGS.
Birkmyre
COW RUGS.
sft.
54ft.
19/3
29/9
41/9
Heavy Brown Canvas 17/3
Heavy White Bleached
Canvas 26/6
Birkmyre Waterproof
Duck 37/9
Special Cow Rugs, with check lining,
complete with breast-strap and filet-
strap —sft., 13/6 each. If unlined,
9/- each.
Names stencilled on Rugs free of charge,
when required.
PRICES ARE F.O.R.' MELBOURNE.
D. gW. CHANDLER LTD.
FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE,
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY,
And at Warrnambool, Bendigo,
Horsham, Ballarat and Portland,
VICTORIA.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” Gd. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Enron ■
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London.
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney ;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
3iBHlSBterr
AUCKLAND, N.Z. (Acc. 160)
“Only UNLICENSED Hotel-de-Luxe”
C.T., P.S., and Auto. Ass’ns’ House.
Days, 15/- (two or more, 14/-) ; Weekly, 84/-
“Special” rooms (h. and c. water), 16/- or 98/-
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
' classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
Farm Accounts.
STOCK ACCOUNT.—Where livestock is the principal earning asset, as in a dairy-
or sheep-farm, the treatment of the item when preparing a p. and 1. account require,
considerable care. Livestock account, in a new farm, will start oft by showing on tne
debit side the cost price of the original purchase of livestock, including expense
of transport to your farm, being debited with any further purchases during the year,
and credited with any sales, or stock killed for rations. Purchases will be passed through
the Journal in the usual fashion. Cash Account, or the purchaser s account, will nc
debited with any, sale, and Livestock Account credited. Rations Account must be
debited and Livestock Account credited with the cost price of any stock killed roi
rations. Rations- Account represents an expense, and the balance is transferred to
p. and 1. account at the end of the year. . V . - A.
Livestock should be valued at the end of the year on a conservative basis .at cost
price, if the season promises to bp a favorable one, and below cost if the outlook ■
uncertain owing to drought. The experienced farmer will be the best judge on this 1 •
A profit should never be anticipated, or taken into account before it is earned. V aiuin»
stock on the basis of what you think you will eventually get for it amounts to counting
your chickens before they are hatched. A stock valuation on the low side will give
you something in hand for next year, which might not be so good as the last. rsy
overvaluing your livestock for several successive years, and not allowing sumciently i
depreciation: on other assets, you may eventually cripple the financial position ot your
farm, and be .obliged to bring in fresh capital to keep it going or , v
Supposing-you .start off your farm on July 1 by buying 2500_ sheep at 25s. a head
for cash. Droving costs run into £16 16s. 8d. On September 2o you buy a furthe
500. sheep at the same price from S. Shepherd, on credit. On January 22 you se
250 head at 30s. each for cash; and on April 28, 200 head to W, Jones at 32s. Od., on
credit. You kill three sheep a month for rations, keeping a record of them in your
Diary, and passing an entry each quarter for the nine sheep thus killed. Ignoring a
the other transactions of tile farm, the Journal entries for these particular items are
as follows ?—
If the Sheep Account be written up from the Journal at tins point it will be found
to have a debit balance of £3021 10s. Sd. On balance-day your tally for the flock is
2482 grown sheep and 780 weaners (the natural increase). It thus appears that
grown sheep are unaccounted for, being either dead or missing. The seasonal outlook
being favorable, you value the grown sheep at cost price (2os per head) and the
weaners at 10s. Your valuation is thus £3492 10s.—£3102 AOs (grown sheep), £390
(weaners). The book value, as before stated, is £3021 16s. 8d. There is thus a profit
of £470 13s. 4d. on the year’s natural increase and sales; this must be transferred to
p. arid 1. account by Journal entry, as follows:
The Sheep Account posted up from the above Journal entries appears as follows.
We haVe included in the “details” columns of the account a memo, of the number ol
sheep (in brackets) concerned in each entry:— ------
The above account, by including a memo, of the number of sheep bought, sold or used
for rations, is a very valuable record. The figures in brackets, of course, do not form
a part of the double-entry system; they are purely statistical. They can be left out
for the time being if it is thought that they are going to present. any ti-Quble. Le bw
entries in italics are merely memos., and no figures are extended into the i s. d. columns.
Thelast two Ttrie” on tJ credit side, “On Hand ” arc really another wa, of wg “By
Balance.” They are brought down in one total on the debit side. This total (£3492 10s.)
is the figure at which Sheep will appear in the balance-sheet.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Bullswool” : It's a help to keep a book of
entries relating to your herd. These should
include a rough sketch of each cow’s history,
date of each. service and calving, remarks on
her progeny, and if sold or kept.
“Disc Harrow” : A handy gadget about the
shed is a lead mallet. Bolts, often get rusted
into place, especially after implements have
been worked in the rain, and the lead, being
soft and heavy, will drive them out without
injury to the threads. Get a small tin can
and cut a hole to take a piece of small pipe
for the handle. Let it project almost through
the can. Warm the whole lot to dry it well,
and then pour in the molten lead. When
cool tear off the tin with a pair of pliers.
“Disc Harrow” : When finished with .a crop
of peas cut the straw and use it in the
orchard.' It is, especially' useful for strawing
trees on steep slopes, where as a rule the
fallen fruit rolls off into the sun and is
scorched. The pea straw holds the apples
well in the interstices, but it requires to be
a little thicker than the other.
“E.H.M.” : A cheap hot-house for seed-beds
during the winter months can be made by
building a light frame around, the beds and
covering it with canvas .which has been
coated with boiled linseed oil.
“Poker” : the quantity of lucerne seed to
plant varies with the district. For a moist
district 121 b. is a good average, but for
districts such as the Riverina 81b. will be
found sufficient. The main thing is to get it
evenly distributed.
“Bill R.”: Where the farm fringes the
forest, encourage the soldier birds. Allow
them to feed with the fowls, gather crumbs
from the lawn, and nest in the vines or
orchard. They will pay back by keeping
sparrows and other despoilers off the seed-
beds, and giving warning when foxes, snakes,
goannas or crows are attempting to burglar
the poultry-runs.
“Fysh”: A shovel often breaks down along
the line of the weld between the blade and
socket strap members. Mend it with a
patch of flat-iron stock. Heat the patch, bend
it at the middle, slip it over the. shovel at
the point of the break, shape it to a fit, and
rivet it to the blade. This patch may be put
on before the shovel breaks if desired and is
a splendid precaution. If it is made the
full width of the blade, it will serve as a
step and the shovel will be much easier to
push into the ground with the foot, as well
as being nmch easier on boots. The blade
will also be very much stronger than
originally.


After all theres only one‘Austrolia;
HI }
rrp s^!
I I
tfaEgppfKtl
4/SSEb*
fl^lslHl
A
4 ‘ jJ:
m
&
r**»4
l^tis
&D
*Si
w _ r .... ;
"' "' -•' •
of*
U!
n
Jf'WUH
W
SMHni
Sydney’s Centre
PT’OR your convenience 'The Australia is
IT set in the very centre of things. A quiet
and luxurious oasis from which you can, at
your pleasure, step forth into the busy whirl
of office, shop and theatre.
Single Room, with breakfast, from 15/- -per day.
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel,” Sydney. Illustrated folder on request.
Capital paid-up,
£422,100.
T' e /1ustralia
The Hotel of the
Commonwealth,
Sydney,
SMOKE-OH!
“Our Customs revenue was £34,376,934 and every
pound meant that loss of work to an Australian
workman.”
Such are our Customs!
POUR PASSER LE TEMPS.
“Let’s play postman’s knock.”
“That’s a game for children.”
“Not the way I play it.”
Many a man vows boldly to give up
liquor, and when he goes out to dinner turns
to a cocktail.
V #
“Unless it mends its ways, Sydney is damned.”
— U.S.A. woman evangelist.
She does take a cursory view of the situa-
tion !
TWO EVILS.
“Ah, son, to he old and bent is sad!”
Remarked the ancient bloke.
“Yes,” said the youth, “but it’s just as bad
For a cove to be young and broke!”
¥ #
“The duty on imported silk stockings will be
considerably increased.”
This should put Australia’s stocking on
its legs.
“A plate whirred past him as he left the house.”
— “Sun.”
His wife having the last whirred, no doubt.
* *
“He’ll simply walk home,” Pickem said,
And so I backed him without stint.
He bid walk home, with drooping head —
They Couldn’t make the beggar sprint.
¥ ¥
“Clam for Damages.”— “News” heading.
Some people are like that—regular limpets.
Cf. if.
“The rats of exchange will have a deleterious effect
on the shipping companies.”— “News.”
Some may even desert the cos.’ ships.
* *
HINDS ONLY.
“Best rump steak goes into our sausages.”
— M.L. butcher’s advt.
Maoriland’s butchers, one presumes,
Do not use forehands tough;
The products of their sausage-rooms
Are made of sterner stuff.
* *
Luxuries from abroad are now matters
of small import to us.
if if
BED-TIME STORY.
Auntie Drivel speaking :
One of my little nieces wrote last w r eek
asking why the Sydney evening papers had
increased their prices, and her artless query
reminded me of a pretty tale that my nanny
used to tell me when I was a little girl
myself.
Once upon a time, dearies, there was a
newspaper Magnet—so called because of his
gift for attracting profits—and, like many
another in and out of gaol, he longed (oh,
how he longed!) to make five quid grow
where one had grown before. What does
your daddy do,
children, w r hen he
wants his sweet-
smelling stocks to
grow? Why, he
waters them, of
course. Well, that
is just what the
Magnet did to his
stocks. He watered
and watered away
till for each of his
famous prize
“P ound Shares”
(lovely things of
the fashionable
“paper” color) he
had five! Just
think of it!
He had been
selling his Flowers
of Journalism, or,
as some of his envi-
ous contempo-
raries described
them, his Literary
Bloomers, for a
penny apiece.
“But,” cried he
one day, “look
what it has cost me
to -Water them!”
So he raised their
price to l^d. —as he
put it laughingly,
“a mere 50 per
cent.” And now a
dreadful thing hap-
pen e d, children.
The purchasers of
his Bloomers start-
ed to imitate him.
The price of his
lunch went from
10s. to 155.; the
rent of his flat
from £2O to £3O a
week. He was
asked £750 for a
car worth £500!
All in a flash,
dearies! Wasn’t it
too, too terrible?
The poor Magnet’s income was only
£lO,OOO p.a. net; owing to the conduct of
his imitators he was forced to spend £lo,ooo
p.a., and soon went insolvent. Had he not
secured the position of Financial Adviser to
the Government he might have starved! So
let this be a lesson to you, my dears, one
and all, never to be unkind to Magnets, but
to pay up and look pleasant whatever they
charge, because it is all for their own good,
God bless them ! 10 2 4
# *
REMARKS WE SELDOM HEAR.
Dad : “Look ’ere, Dave, my dear ole feller,
the milkin’s tirin’ you. Take ter-morrer
01 Chemist: “No, no! It’s only bicarbonate
of soda and a little peppermint. I couldn’t
charge you 3s. 6d. for that! Give me 2d„
which will represent 100 p.c. profit for us.”
Fruit Vendor: “ ’Ere, lady, ’arf a minute!
.... By cripes, I almost gave yer one with
a maggit in!”
Constable: “Yes, yer ’Onor, I’ll admit I
did maul ’im about a bit. I’d just ’ad a
couple of pots my,self!”
Clarence: “No, darling, I can't honestly
say you’re the
first. Neither
do I for one
moment imagine
you’re going to
be the last.”
Doctor: “My
dear sir, you're
not cured —in
fact, I think my
NOW, WHAT DID HE MEAN BY THAT?
“And, Eric, do you really love me as much as you thought you
did before we were married?”
“My dear girl, it is only after living with you for six months
that I realise how much I really must love you!”
treatment has made you worse. No! I
couldn’t possibly take anything!”
Parson : “No, Mrs. Bullion, the offertory
was not overlooked. During the months of
April and May there will be no collections.
Financially, we have more than enough !”
Chelsus.
* *
NURSERY RHYME.
Simple Simon went a-fisliing
For to catch a whale.
He found no Whaleshowever.
That didn’t make him quail.
He drafted a prospectus
Which caught mugs by the score.
Note he’s so rich he needn’t go
' A-fishing any more.
*¥*
LOVE IN A COTTAGE (MODERN
VERSION).
For thousands life a little flat became
when towns began to rise in many-storeyed
buildings that appeared to want to pierce
the skies.
In them the tenants homewards climb in
lifts instead of on the hoof. Here having
children is a crime, and back yards flourish
on the roof. Most of the rooms have little
room, and “living-
rooms” replace the
hall, and kitchen-
ettes for kitchens
bloom that haven’t
any room at all.
Such are the
“cottages” that
now love-in-a-cot-
tage dreamers get.
The landlord’s fre-
quently a cow. The
only chickens that
are met are chick-
ens that come home
to roost when rash
extravagance w e
rue (caused by the
lureful ad-man’s
boost) as t.p. bills
fall overdue. The
gardens that a
fragrance spill of
rose and lavender
and phlox dwarf to
(it’s on the win-
dow sill) a dead
geranium in a box,
and there are no
wild birds to sing
but drunks; and in
the street below
the milkman with
his yodelling, the
rabbitman and
bottle-oli.
O for a cow that
asked no rent, but
held some udder joys for me; a garden with
sweet blooms besprent where there was room
to keep a bee —a bee that one might make a
pet, one with a loud and cheery hum, that,
if one was on honey set, would at its
master’s whistle come ’.
Alas, poetic dreams are vain! Electric
lights about me glare, and life goes on with
might and main to hectic joys that drown
its care: a whir of cars about the streets,
jazz parties, gramophones and beer, ices and
silver-papered sweets —a tinselled paradis.-
is here!
The froth upon it thick may show as
pleasure’s beer pours from the vat; but most
of us poor moderns know that flat life is
extremely flat.
Percy Pawnticket.
* *
“On poor land goats are more profitable than
cows.”
Certainly the goat makes the best butter.
SUPPRESSED SOCIETY NOTES.
Mrs. Toorak placed her beautiful home at
tlie disposal of the Emancipated Women s
,-Social League yesterday, when a bridge
afternoon was held.
The funds of the
Husbands’ Protec-
ti o n Association
will benefit. The
hostess said after-
wards that a rot-
tener lot of players
she never had the
misfortune to en-
tertain, and that
the cheating that
had gone on was
monstrous. The
R e v. Chasuble’s
conduct in coming
to the party with a
pocketful of aces
she stigmatised as
“a disgrace to his
cloth.” After that
Mrs. Chasuble
bounced a pictur-
esq u e old brass
flower-bowl on the
hostess’s head, and
an agreeable func-
tion ended in dis-
order.
The fashionable church of St. Mark’s was
the scene of a pretty wedding last Wednes-
day, when Miss Agatha Avoirdupois was
married to Mr. Percy Penwiper. The Rev.
Lew Gubrious officiated, though only after
much haggling about the fee. The bride
looked frightful in a veil lent by her aunt.
The ’groom’s dress suit was lent by a
friend in the pawnbroking business. Having
no money the unhappy couple will spend
the honeymoon with the bride’s parents.
S. W. K.
THE LOVE TEST.
“Just this once, darling, and I’ll not
pester you any more?”
“No.”
“Not if I ask you nicely?”
“No.”
“But it means so much, dear. Now come
and sit on my knee and”
“No, I will not.”
“Then you don’t want me to love you
any more?”
“Yes, I do want you to, but not that.”
“You’re quite determined?”
“Yes.”
“It's no good arguing with her any more,”
THE HOPELESS CASE.
“I’m afraid that new patient of mine is a hopeless case. I’ve
found out he’s been given up by seven other doctors.”
“What’s the matter with the poor fellow?”
“Can’t pay their bills!”
said the irate father to his wife. “You
hold the little devil while- I pour the oil
down her throat.”
W. P. T.
* #
“His works were full of spiritual fervor, but others
profited by them.” —Literary notice.
lie should have insisted on the soul rights.
TRAVELLERL'S TALE.
“I am travelling third and don’t care who knows
it. Down here men are men and women are women.”
-—Tilly Devine in “Guardian.”
The rottenest sea trip ever I had
Was once when I crossed the Main
In a first-class berth. It wasn’t too bad, ■
But I nearly ivent insane
When I realised there wasn’t a man
In the whole of the first saloon
Who was any more like a real one than
A monkey or wild baboon.
I discovered next (and, believe my tale
Or not, whichever you please),
When I goes and greets, with a cheery hail,
As we sailed the raging seas,
What appeared to be a woman to me
That I’d made an awkward slip.
She wasn’t a woman at all, you see:
There wasn’t one on the ship.
I’ve travelled about a lot since then,
But never went first again,
For I like to be where men are men,
And it goes against the grain
To live where women aren’t women at all.
You tire of it very soon.
It’s one of the troubles that dvm'-t befalil
When you travel third saloon.
MAX F.


San francisco:
4
%
NEW YORK
You can choose from many
different railway routes across
America from San Francisco
Yosemite
and New York
are on your route to
ENGLAND
ę
Your next trip home is your long-
wanted opportunity to see the
United States. Do you know how easy,
how moderate in cost, is this quickest
route to England?
Your entire trip is arranged before
you leave Australia. Only one ticket
to buy. You sail from Sydney on a
Matson liner, stopping at Fiji, Samoa,
and Hawaii, en route to San Francisco.
Motion pictures, orchestra, deck
sports, swimming pool, enliven the
voyage and the climate is pleasant all
the way.
Leaving San Francisco, you can
choose from several fascinating rail-
way routes. You can cross the continent
to New York with only one change of
trains. Or, you can stop off at all the
famous places you want to visit. Call
or write for our free booklet, illus-
trated with pictorial map and see just
how wonderful you can make your
trip to England.
Oceanic SteamshipCoi
NATSON LINE
Dept. M5 12 Bridge Street, Sydney. Tele. B7981
Dalgety &. C~., Ltd. ) Melbourne, Adelaide
Mcllwraith McEacham Ltd. ) Perth, Fremantle, Albany
Dalgety &. Co.. Ltd. Brisbane &. Queensland ports.
Left: The White House in Washington is the offi-
cial home of the President of the United States and
a sight of interest to many Australians every year
Right: San Francisco is famed as one of America’s
most beautiful cities. You leave your Matson ship
at San Francisco and begin the delightful rail
journey across the continent
ě
m
m
»>:•>
pii| S
1!
•<<<>
■m
m
m&im
WXmtM&iX:
r «rMm3
n
VJ *r* ? i
a*
Jys&'*3# S'*
111 ; *r#i
amm
ms


dśf
ftl bring REX Delicacies
for Sandwiches "
’’How manu Hns
of REX-PYE?"
?»
Mum. puf RED-Y"MELE
on the list"
n:
-
-"\~-
X
U\
'lB-
k\
A «
Sandwich Delicacies—
REX Luncheon Cheese
REX Salmonelle
REX Ham Pate
REX Devilled Ham
REX Ham and Tongue
Etr.
Choice Canned Goods—
REX Baked Beans
REX Pork and Beans
REX Lorraine Smoked Sausages
REX Pork Sausage
REX Devilled Kidne\ s
REX Choice Soups (five kinds)
REX Pork Brawn
REX Pig Feet
REX Fry and Bacon
REX Beef Sausages
Whither for Easter? Touring,
boating, camping, picnicing? No
need to consider nearness to
butcher—take REX Pure Foods
—handy to carry and of very
choicest quality*
REX K-be-B.
A tasty dish of kidneys, beans and bacon, In lib and
£lb cans—a fine breakfast ready in a minute!
REX-PYE.
The famous REX meat-in-jelly, in lib and £lb cans.
Delicious for cold lunch and for sandwiches.. For
quality say REX-PYE, and see that you get REX-PYE.
REX Red-y-mele.
Hungry and tired after surfing or a long walk or drive,
you fancy a hot meal. Pop a can of REX Red-y-mele
into boiling water and heat it thoroughly. Hey, presto!
A ready meal of choice beef and vegetables!
There you are—-breakfast, lunch, and dinner,
all without trouble or waste of holiday time*
Do not forget REX Ham 9 and Bacon and RBX Ham*
cured Shoulders.
REX Pure Poods
I C =3 )
L
e


IT ISN’T A
MAGNAVOX
IT ISN'T A
DYNAMIC
(With • bow to KodokJ
THE ORIGINAL DYNAMIC SPEAKER
Australia's Fastest Selling Speaker A Leader in All States
Dynamic Unit A.C. Model
£7/15/-
Dynamic Unit D.C. Model
£5/15/-
“Your Radio pleasure
depends on the Speaker”
Demonstration will Convince You.
Obtainable All Radio Dealers
m
m
Exquisite Crystal
by
Thomas Webb & Corbett Ltd.
A characteristic example of Webb & Corbett fine English Cut Glass.
Graceful in form, solid in quality, with the diamond clearness and
brilliance that distinguish the finest crystal. As delightful to handle as to
look at. Designs of rare distinction and grace, available singly or in
complete services, each piece the product of the patient and loving skill
of deft craftsmen
Webb & Corbett Crystal is a daily joy to the present generation, a
treasured heirloom to the next.
At all exclusive Glassware Departments.
Sole Agents in Australia:
W. G. SOUTH & COWAN, LTD., 352 Kent Street, Sydney.
Poverty
Point
“T.P.”: I heard John Lemmone first in
Sale (Vic.) with Melba, both at their zenith.
“Bravo! He’s nearly as good as Jim Loder!”
roared a delighted hearer after a wonderful
solo. The house collapsed. Lemmone took
his encore, commenced, dropped his flute,
grinned—you cannot smile and flute simul-
taneously—and finally electrified his audi-
ence. James Loder, leading Gippsland jewel-
ler and amateur flautist, years afterwards
said: “I wished a crack in the floor would
open and let me through.”
“L. de R.” : What most of our Australian
playwrights suffer from is too much of what
the sesthetically-minded call “soul” and too
little knowledge of the mechanics of the stage.
I recently read a play in - five acts. A battle-
ship is launched in the first act, and there
is a polo match in the second. No doubt
the writer regards her failure to attract the
interest of entrepreneurs as fresh evidence
of their beastly commercialism.
“Craiser”: Some of the biggest items of
news don’t get into the press-agents’ propa-
ganda. A leading golfer and an eminent
actor recently got into an argument in a
Melbourne cafe over a lady. The golfer
stood off and made one of his famous putting
shots, which blackened one of the barn-
stormer’s optics. The actor, according to
his publicity bureau, had a bewildering array
of accomplishments, but boxing is not one
of them, and his reply was entirely rhetorical.
The application of a ,-raw beefsteak all next
day and an extra supply of greasepaint
enabled him to make the usual appearance on
the following evening.
“C. 8.”: Paragraphists who have sug-
gested that Gregan McMahon has lured play-
ers away from Melbourne Repertory Society
scarcely do that hard-working entrepreneur
justice. It was McMahon who founded the
Reps, in 1911, and he kept it going at the
Playhouse until 1916, when he turned that
theatre into a Red Cross station. When
he launched the joint enterprise with the
Taits a couple of years ago he found the
organisation with 90 subscribers at a guinea
a head, and he left it with 900 at three
guineas. The Repertorians had as much
to do with seceding from the Taits as the
Taits themselves. They felt strong enough
to voyage on their own. The actors who
are drifting back to McMahon are mainly
old friends.
“Craiser”: Jan Rubini, the imported con-
ductor who has been more or less entrancing
Melbourne Capitol audiences for the past
year, is departing, but his influence remains.
Almost every cinema conductor nowadays
emulates the ecstatic Jan. The most infan-
tile bit of jazz is introduced with a series of
solemn capers, is directed as if it were a
major offensive in the Great War and is
dismissed with a display of temperament
worthy of the conclusion of a Beethoven
symphony. The Australian imitators of
Rubini, such as Hamilton Webber at the
State, however, lack their exemplar’s appa-
rent belief in himself. I once listened to
Rubini conduct the “1812 Overture” at the
Capitol. After the performance the manager
came forward and disclosed that, owing to
the soul-shattering demands the piece had
made upon the conductor, the next number
would have to be cut out. The announce-
ment was very impressive, though it became
less so when it was repeated nearly every
afternoon and evening during a two-months’
run.
“Cauboy”: It is absolutely obligatory on
every Russian artist to have fallen under
the displeasure of the Czar, and his escape
from Siberia is usually connected with
wolves, sleighs or the swimming of a semi-
frozen stream. Nadejine, the baritone whom
Bernard Heinze roped in for the first
of his “celebrity” concerts at Melbourne
Town Hall, fulfils expectations. In the
course of escaping from perpetual banish-
ment he rowed 1000 miles down the Angara
River. Nadejine achieved considerable fame
in Italy, Austria and England and married
Miss Tritton, a Brisbane girl.
“Cine Ma” : A. film that will be more or
less eagerly awaited in Australia is evan-
gelist Aimee McPherson’s first talkie, now
in process of incubation at wonderful Holly-
wood. It will be called “In the Potter s
Hand,” and will depict her, an 18-year-old
widow in China, starting on her mission of
converting the world and culminating in the
million-dollar circus she has built around
herself in Los Angeles. But the most in-
teresting part will be where she appears m
a dainty green bathing costume, is seized,
chloroformed and thrown into a car to
awaken in a hut in Mexico. This is her own
account of the famous kidnapping incident,
many versions of which are extant, though
bashful editors have refrained from printing
them all.
“L.H.P.”: Albani’s death recalls the
operatic war in London between Mapleson
(Drury-lane) and Gye (Covent Garden). It
was owing to a trick of Gye’s that Mapleson
missed introducing Albani to London in 1872.
She had no contract, but came with a< letter
of introduction to Mapleson from a Colonel
McCray. She told the cabby to drive her
to the Royal Italian Opera (both houses
were run under that title). Gye received
her graciously and signed her up at once.
Then she learnt he was not Mapleson. Gye
explained there was a man named Maple-
son who rented a theatre somewhere round
the corner, where operas and other things
were ocasionally played, but the real Italian
Opera was his. Albani was satisfied. Maple-
son could have taken legal action, but
declined. In later years she appeared under
his management in America.
“L.H.P.”: Edith Taliafero, the American
star, comes to Australia in May. Her sister
Mabel was leading lady with William Collier
in Sydney in 1906 in “The Dictator” and
other comedies. In that co. also was John
Barrymore, now a big pot on both stage and
screen.
“Rob P.”: About two months ago half a
dozen unemployed Brisbane musicians formed
themselves into a street band, and went to
play about the suburbs. Their takings have
averaged not less than £6 per man per week
of 48 hours. Mapping out a fresh area for
each day’s operations they “play” the blocks
in rotation while the collector systematically
canvasses every dwelling. In regular jobs
none of them earned more than the basic
wage.
“Hamfat” : Dramatic critics can lay the
flattering unction to their souls (or what-
ever they have in lieu thereof) that one oi
their number—-the same London “Sunday
Express” man who was biffed by an indig-
nant stage lady—changed the luck of Frank
Plarvey’s “The Last Enemy,” turning it from
a failure into the success of this year.
Opening night notices had been so bad that
the play’s doom seemed sealed, and the
manager, Walls, was arranging for the
obsequies. Then the “Sunday Express’
notice declared that if the play was a failure,
dramatic appreciation was dead in England.
The manager had another look and decided tc
let it go on. Now it is making fortunes foi
all concerned.
Three boys of notable stock have lately
joined the Inky Way via Melbourne “Herald.'
One is a son of Andrew Fisher, who camt
from England at the invitation of Keith Mur-
doch ; the second is a* son of Allan Wilkie
and the third a son of Downer, K.C., cl
Adelaide, one of the three men who were
on the drafting committee which produced
the Federal Constitution —his colleagues
were Barton and O’Connor.
P. J. Bennett has been State Parliamen
tary roundsman for Melbourne “Herald” for
40 years. When Theodore Fink presented
him with a 40-day clock in honor of the
event, Speaker Alex. Peacock dropped down
from the Leg. Assembly to add his congratu-
lations. Bennett reported Speacock’s very
first deputation.
Associated Newspapers, the Sydney merg
ing party, put the price of its evening sheet 1
up to lid. the other day. The immediate
result was a terrific slump in sales. A
suburban newsagent with a sale of 1200 goi
rid of 500 on the first day; 20 and 35 per
cent, drops were alleged by others, and the
street sellers lost interest in the latest
’orrible murder. Agents have been given
a month of more or less unrestricted
returns for adjusting purposes, and Asso-
ciated Newspapers are banking on force of
habit to do the trick. Meanwhile the “S. M.
Herald” refrains from starting its rumored
evening sheet, like the sensible house it is.
Duncan Cameron, recently dead at 82 in
Brisbane, claimed to be Queensland’s oldest
journalist. He was that somewhat rare bird,
an inkslinger of Highland birth and ances-
try. He began his Australian experience
with the “Darling Downs Gazette” at Too-
woomba in 1860, then he was with the Allora
“Guardian” and Stanthorpe “Border Post.”
Back again to the “Gazette” he remained
faithful to his old love until he retired 10
years ago. It was his proudest boast that
he was the first man to wear the kilt in
Toowoomba.
SHADOW SHOWS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Truly I mourn the mime that’s gone
From many a well-remembered stage,
Where now indifferently I con
A sheet, which seems to me a page
Of some dull book that talks aloud
In mystic and inhuman way;
For ghosts are ghosts, howe’er endowed,
And I—l like a meaty play.
Sorely I miss the sly soubrette,
A trifle buxom now and then,
Whose wink one never could forget,
Whose way was through the hearts of men
I watch the visions fair begat
Of light and shade before me swim,
But dainty shadows still are flat,
And I—l like a rounded limb.
On strings of light the puppets dance,
And heroes blare and villains rasp;
With all the motions of romance
The insubstantial lovers clasp
In long (or censored-short) embrace,
With every pantomimic bliss
Writ large on each gigantic face,
But I —l like a living kiss.
Sadly I listen to it all
As scene fades into noisy scene,
But other ghosts are in the hall
And other voices intervene.
Pleasanter, softer tones I knew,
Spectres more living still than such
As now I plainly hear and view....
Ah, how I miss the human touch!
VICTORIA.
HASEN.
The Inky Way
BALLADE OF BRAN-FED BARDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My uncle Seth maintained that fish
Was sovereign for the fuddled brain;
As for myself, I think the wish
Fathered the thought in the refrain
Of his interminable strain
Which burst my temper into shards
When I was trying to explain
How bran upbuilds the brains of bards.
Observe that Saul, the son of Kish,
For asses’ milk, it seems, was fain,
Yet failed to hold his high posish
Throughout a very lengthy reign.
Instead, young David, having slain
Goliath, garnered rich rewards;
He, rustic-bred, did not disdain
The bran that builds the brainy bards.
The Wall-street magnate’s breakfast dish
Is piled with cereal, cooked or plain;
Ingurgitating with a swish
He plans each masterly campaign.
Some think he does it on champagne.
Far wiser we poetic cards
Who know the secret of his gain—
Bran! Brain’s Best Building Bricks foi
Bards!
Envoy.
Prince, luxury begets but bane
And Song’s seraphic flow retards;
Who would the laurel-wreath attain
Eats bran —like other bankrupt bards.
N.S.W.
AHAB MULDOON.


i
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Avitliout Notes, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
On your
AMERICAN
ITINERARY...
... write
"THE CLIFT HOTEL
SAN FRANCISCO"
The Clift is one of the finer
hotels, close to the center of
things in beautiful, historic San
Francisco. There are 540 rooms,
each with its own bath and its
individual radio reception equip-
ment; every comfort, but with-
out extravagance.
Rates: for single room, from $3
(about 125.) upward; two per-
sons in a room, from $5 (about
one guinea) upward.
II
m
Full refund on
wireless request
for accommo-
dations from
your steamer
THE
CLIFT
HOTEL
San Francisco, California, U. S. A.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised, are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
The Later Years of Thomas
Hardy, 1891-1928
By FLORENCE EMILY HARDY.
With portraits and other illustra-
tions. 1 Bs. net.
[Shortly.
Myths of the Origin of Fire
An Essay. By SIR JAMES
FRAZER, 0.M., F.R.S., etc.,
author of “The Golden Bough,”
etc. 1 2s. 6d. net.
a survey of the myths told by peoples,
ancient and modern, in many parts of the
world, to explain the origin or discovery of
fire among men.
NEW NOVELS.
Rogue Herries
By HUGH WALPOLE.
[Dominions Edition.
A rich and moving story. It is written on
the grand scale, in the best tradition of
Northern romance, and Mr. Walpole’s readers
will And that his theme allows unusually free
play to his remarkable and varied gifts and
resources.
Turn Back the Leaves
By E. M. DELAFIELD, author of
“Messalina of the Suburbs,”
“What Is Love?” etc.
[Empire Library.
The “Times”: “The best work Miss Delafield
has done.”
The “Observer”: “A powerful book.”
“Daily Mail”: “All the people are finely
drawn.”
To bo Obtained from alt
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & to., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
A
I
FOR SALE
S Beautiful Waterfront
l Bungalow Residence
The beauties of the sea, the beauties of a- garden
and the beauties of gum-trees in their natural state
all combine to make a perfect setting for “Wedder-
burn,” a magnificent water-front bungalow residence
at Gunnamatta Bay, Port Hacking, near Cronulla.
High' on the crest of a headland with splendid views,
“Wedderburn” is luxuriously built and fitted. Lounge
hall, inglenook, dining-room, breakfast-room, lounge,
four bedrooms, bathrooms, kitchen, storerooms, maids’
sitting and bedrooms. Sewerage, electric light, water
supply. Floors of Jarrah, woodwork of Queensland
Maple. Huge . verandah with expansive views.
Flower and vegetable gardens, fruit-trees, garages,
gardener’s cottage, swimming bath, boathouse, private
jetty,' oyster lease, good fishing. Handsome entrance
drive. Sundial, five acres of land. Torrens title.
Thirty minutes by car from Sydney, 36 minutes by
electric train from Sutherland to St. James.
Price, £l2jooo (deposit £5000).
Either arrange to inspect “Wedderburn,” or send for
free illustrated, booklet.
PEACH BROS.
76 and 78 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
AND AT ROCKDALE AND KOGARAH.
Legal Notice. ________
fo JOHN McCLEW formerly of the City of
Wellington Tram Conductor but now of parts
unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at
Wellington citing you to appear and answer the
petition of Jane Beatrice McClew of Wellington
aforesaid wherein she prays for a dissolution of her
marriage with you on the ground of your adultery
and such citation intimates that in default of your
filing an answer to the said petition the Court will
proceed to hear the said petition and to pronounce
sentence therein notwithstanding your absence. Now
therefore take notice that for the purpose aforesaid
you are within thirty days after the date of this
publication to attend in person or by your solicitor
at the Supreme Court Office at Wellington and there
to enter an appearance without which you will not
be allowed to address the Court at any stage of the
proceedings.
A copy of the said citation and petition will be
supplied to you on your applying for the same at
the Supreme Court Office at Wellington.
Dated at Wellington this 2nd day of April, 1930.
[L.S.] C. RHODES,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the respondent are particularly requested
to forward to him the foregoing advertisement.
Charles Archibald Lawrance Treadwell is the
Solicitor for the petitioner, whose address for service
is at the offices of Messieurs Treadwell & Sons,
Solicitors, Number 4 Panana Street, Wellington.
For Sale.
COR SALE—Pedigree Orange Persian
*■ Kittens, by imported sire, £3/3/-. —C. R.
HOWARD, Brookman Buildings, Adelaide.
Telephone: Stirling 399.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICL 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
can own a Car
in England for
as little
as
Under our “Buy Back”
Plan, we can sell you a
brand new British made
car for your own use,
while on holiday, for as
little as £4O, or even less
4/
c?
K
Let us explain.
We will sell you a car at its list price and we will then fix a
figure at which, we will buy this same car back, two or three
months later. On some of the popular cars, with a good second-
hand value, our buy back price comes within £4O or £5O of
the new price of the car. Certainly there is no more satisfactory
or economical method of running a car while in England than on
Henlys’ “ Buy Back ” Plan. It is much cheaper than hiring and
infinitely more pleasant.
Illustrated Brochure obtainable from “The Bulletin” Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
HENLYS
England’s Leading Motor Agents
DEVONSHIRE HOUSE, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.l
and at Manchester, Leeds and Bristol.
é
PLUM Strops, each, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
Strop Dressing, per tube 1/3
Shaving Cream, Giant Size, tube, 2/-
Shaving Tablet, Round, each ... 6d.
Witch Hazel, After-shave Liquid
Cream, bottle 27-
Oil of Roses Hairdressing, bottle . 1/3
Crystallised Brilliantine, jar .... 1/3
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Murkah” : The postal-note, like the pound-
note, is changeable in the country of origin
only (B. 274/’3O). But the money-order is
an international document, by which money
can be sent practically anywhere. M.o. pound-
age is fixed by Government regulation, and
averages 6d. per £.
* * * *
“Piecrust”: The first three-engined mono-
plane to be wholly designed and built in
Australia took the air the other day. It, is
to be used on commercial services. Cruising
speed is better than 100 m.p.h., and the
machine can attain 8000 feet and run fully
loaded with one engine out of commission.
The test pilot, who has tried over 30 dif-
ferent types of ’planes, said the Lasconder
beat the lot for airworthiness and ease of
control.
* * * *
“Electrode”: Somebody at Australia
House has reported to the Federal Govern-
ment that softwood instead of hardwood
should be used in the manufacture of cases
in which fruit is packed and exported from
Australia. The suggestion will not receive
the support of many Westralian fruitgrowers,
as they realise that the distinctive reddish
color of the jarrali or karri case is a good
trade-mark for their products.
sj- s{: jJ:
“R. Volt”: “Whitehall’s” mention. of
Uncle Sam’s repudiated State debts reminds
me of a private bill which has been forwarded
to Washington regularly ever since Admiral
Dewey collared the Philippines. The British
Cable Co. had enjoyed an annual subsidy from
the Spanish Government, a*nd acting on the
proclamation that all such obligations should
be respected by the conquerors the concern
presented its account. It was received
with stony indifference. With compound
interest the bill has reached an immense
figure, and when I last heard of it was still
being submitted annually.
# % * *
“L.T.L.”: “H.S ” (B. 26/3/’3O) impresses
on Australian pumpmakers that it is their
duty to use Australian-made Yale-pattern
locks. The writer puts in about 200 locks a
year, and would like to know where to obtain
a locally-made article. I don’t want to
continue importing American locks, but have
never seen an Australian lock yet.
H? * * *
“Aramac”: The Brisbane Tramway De-
partment in its war on unlicensed passenger-
carrying vehicles has gone to the length of
circularising the heads of carrying, and pro-
duce firms, advising them that their carters
are breaking the Council by-laws by giving
people free lifts on roads running parallel
with the tram lines. This is regarded as
over the odds, not only by the unemployed
who can’t afford tram fares, but by the
carters’ feminine belongings, who are threat-
ened with the loss of a free lift to their work.
* * *. *
“Cheshire Cheese” : There . seems. some-
thing utterly incongruous to an Englishman
of mature years in the new Sydney charge
of a penny for a morning paper and a penny-
halfpenny for an evening one. Fifty years
ago all the London morning journals were
published at a penny, except the “Times”
and the “Morning Post,” which were three-
pence. The era of halfpenny journalism
began (I think) with the “Star” in the late
’eighties, but other evening papers soon fol-
lowed suit. For years one expected to pay
less for a scrappy evening paper than for
a solid morning one; it was not until after
the war that a.m. and p.m. journalism fell
largely into line in the matter of price. To
be asked half as much again for the evening
rag is a reversal of the old system with a
vengeance.
* * * *
“Seaplane”: The N.S.W. Government. is
spending large sums in re-afforestation, prin-
cipally pine. The Pilliga Scrub is the finest
natural nursery for cypress pine in Aus-
tralia, 1500 square miles in area. The land
is mainly worthless, and the settler mostly
throws up his holding after he has sold all
marketable timber to the. sawmill. In a
few years the traces of his occupation are
obliterated, for it is impossible to keep the
pine off cleared ground. Some of the much-
boosted prison camps might be profitably
transferred to this area for a term to clear
out all waste timber and replace it with the
marketable article. If it were properly
looked after the area would make a superb
pine forest, which a score of sawmills could
never denude. * *
“S.T.S.”: A. G. Barrett, the Adelaide
member of a malting firm operating in every
State, has given S.A. an unexpected but firm
warning that it is giving too much acreage
to barley. “World barley stocks are large
and in excess of demand; our growers can-
not sell at European prices offering; the
overseas market this year is practically non-
existent.” S.A. barley having been proved
good, inferior land has lately been opened
up with it. Barrett draws a careful line
from Tumby Bay, in the far west of S.A.,
to Bordertown, on the Vic. border; north
of it barley should not be attempted. In
fact, though himself a buyer, he would like
to see the present 300.000 acreage r-duc-d
to half of that. “No farmer,” he says, “should
sow barley this year on land that can be
used for wheat.”
* * * Ht
“Hannan Street”: One of the first movie
shows in Kalgoorlie was run by an enter-
prising publican, quick to see in the new
craze a way of supplementing his bar
revenue. Crude enough “flicks” they were
in 1906, but the public soon took to them.
Bung’s grievance was that on Sundays he
could only charge “admittance by silver
coin,” and even that was voluntary, like
the church collections. His patrons weren’t
mean enough to try to dodge the plate
altogether, but they paid in the lowest coin
possible, and the aggregation of thrums
nearly broke his ■ heart. Thep the idea
occurred to him of trying to corner the
town’s stock of threepennies, and he went
to every bank and bought up all he could.
The plan worked for two or three Sundays,
but the threepenny bit was too indispensable
for commerce and he had to resign himself
to the inevitable. I always suspected he
tried to get back a little by selling more
villainous whisky, but most people reckoned
that was' impossible.


ê
C55.T011
Clyde Radio
Battery.
BATTERY SALES AND
SERVICE DIVISION,
106-110 Goulburn Street,
Sydney.
Clyde Home
Lighting
Battery.
INTER-STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
QUEENSLAND: The Clyde Engineer- SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Cornell,
ing Co., Ltd., Brisbane. Limited, Adelaide.
VICTORIA: The Clyde Engineering WEST. AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun and
Co., Ltd., Melbourne. Johnstone (W.A.) Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA: W. & G. Gonders Pty., Ltd., Launceston and Hobart
High Quality Results at a Lower Price
9$
*
#
Hfii
The newest in
economical,
smokeless shells!
FREE
SHOOTING BOOK.
“What Happens after
the Shot is Fired”—
illustrating by actual
electric photographs
the methods by
which Peters
Ammunition has
been perfected. Write
to nearest address.
LOADED by the exclusive Peters method
. . . .with wads of long hair felt. . . .
Victor smokeless shells have the
special water-tight bevel crimp. For
accuracy, power and absolute uniformity
they are unsurpassed at the price.
The Peters line includes as well, “High
Velocity” for hard hitting at extreme range;
“Target,” a superior smokeless load;
“Referee,” a semi-smokeless shell at the
cost of black powder; and a full range of
metallic cartridges.
SYDNEY DEALERS: SIL ROHU, 143 Elizabeth Street; and
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD.
DISTRIBUTORS:
W. H. LIDDLE & CO York and Barrack Streets, Sydney
ALCOCK, PIERCE PTY., LTD Little Collins Street, Melbourne
ARMSTRONG CYCLE AND MOTOR AGENCY, LTD Perth
JAMES HILL & SON, LTD Adelaide
'V;
fi
Hawaii
A GLORIOUS HOLIDAY IN
EVERYBODY’S REACH
Honolulu is only a fortnight away; an island paradise of romance
and haunting music, a flower-strewn paradise; and what delights,
enrapturing pastimes, diversities of scene, and native life, like the
diving hoys, await you here.
Hawaii offers you the world’s finest climate, luscious tropical
fruits, active volcanoes, interesting inter-island cruises, palm
shaded beaches, all forms of sporting life, golf, tennis, fishing—
the most perfect holiday you will ever have. You should arrange
to stay at least a week.
Special return excursion steamer fares now available. Modern
hotel accommodation 15/- to £3 per day, with meals. Through
travellers pay no extra to break the journey at Honolulu.
Send us your address and we will forward to you descriptive
booklets of the Hawaiian Islands, attractively illustrated in colour.
Hawaii Tourist Bureau
Dept 1 j Box 1627 8.8., G.P.O. SYDNEY


ë
A
%
x^
*%I
Much careful thought and skil-
ful preparation are needed to
achieve excellence in any sphere
from the breeding of stock to
the brewing of a TRUE lager.
Years and years of experience,
careful attention to every detail,
the finest materials and most
modern methods ... all these
factors, and more, go to the
production of Tooth’s K.B. Lager.
Among light beverages, K.B.
holds the blue riband of popular
favour ... a tribute to the real
excellence of a TRUE Lager.
ē


Repairs.
OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS.”
Firearms sent 0.0. D.
RELIABLE ENGLISH HAMMERLESS
12-GAUGE GUNS.
Holloway and Naught on, £l7/10/-, £2O, £25,
£32/10/- & £65. Cashmore, £2O. Bonehill,
£2O. Webley and Scott, £2O. Claborough
and Johnston, £22/10/- and £65.
Both barrels full choke, chambered for 2Jin.,
some 3in. cartridges. These guns are specially-
made for me to suit Australian conditions.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
’Phoney MA3540.
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
1438 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
(near Market Street).
“Fishing Tackle to Tackle Fishing.”
You must try this
LIGHT BEER
RESCH’S
PILSENER
A Drink to Delight You.
X
KM'
m m
SHARP
Owing to special
process in manu-
facture of the lead,
the “ Mephisto ”
Copying Pencil
lasts much longer,
yet writes easily
and smoothly with-
out heavy pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
0) THE POPULAR
COPYING PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checki g, etc.
From all Stationers, etc.
L. & C. rr.VßDTMtrril. of “ KOH-I-NOOR ” Pencil fame,
London Office- 20. Kiueewny. W.C.2
Australien Representative-
JOHN MACDOUGALR. P O. Box 165, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The ringmen’s odd prejudice against Phar
Lap (it exists no longer) led to a departure
from their grand old custom of demanding
odds about the favorites for AV.f.a. events.
The scene was Warwick Farm; the time
Saturday; the race the Chipping Norton
Stak.es. ‘ “Evens the field,” McShortodds
called, astounded at his own audacity; pre-
sently it Avas 5 to 4 Phar Lap, 2 to 1 Night-
march, 3 to 1 Amounis; and one hero,
emboldened by the rush of Amounis money
(the old gelding touched twos), offered 6
to 4 Phar Lap. All three were spiritedly
backed.
Phar Lap’s victory was achieved as easily
as that of gtrephon in the same race last
year, and he had a better field to beat.
Nightmarch got much the best of the start,
but Reed did not take advantage of it; and
after a sloav quarter-mile Phar Lap was
bowling along in front. From the six-furlong
post Pike let the chestnut have his head,
and before the home turn was reached it
Avas plain that the others had no earthly
chance of catching him; Nightmarch, who
was second, could not reduce the gap, though
galloping at his top. Travelling at his ease,
Phar Lap completed the 10 furlongs (in 2min.
fisec.) 21 lengths in advance of Amounis,
Avho just cut Nightmarch out of third place.
On Warwick form Phar Lap could beat
Nightmarch at even weights over any dis-
tance, and if ever a race was thrown away
the last Melbourne Cup was.
Backed from tens to sevens, High Dis-
dain, selected by The Bulletin, took the
Liverpool Handicap in dashing style. Third
to the home turn, running behind Luita
(favorite) and Parkwood (6 to 1), he tackled
Parkwood as soon as the Melbourne three-
year-old had shaken off the mare from Rose-
hill, and won as he liked from Toper (8 to
1), who came home pretty well, and Park-
wood. First Arrow was a fair fourth; he
got away first, but lost his position. High
Disdain, who covered the six furlongs in
Imin. 12isec., has now won three good races
in succession. Kingsley has effected a great
change in him; the horse looked very poor
last year, and ran accordingly.
The Warwick Farm Cup brought out a field
of 16, nearly all Sydney Cup candidates, and
it was a great race for the man behind the
bag. Crucis (9 to 2) Avas actual favorite, but
Kidaides (5 toll, Star God (7 to 1), Charlie
B. (7 to 1) and Leadight (8 To 1) were in
great demand. Gwillian G., successful over
the same distance (12 furlongs) at Rosehill
the previous Saturday, came from 20 to 1 to
14 to 1, but her backers were few. As at
Rosehill, she hit the front early and refused
to come back to her field. In fact, she stayed
better than at Rosehill, for nothing tackled
her, as Happy New had done on the Parra-
matta course; she rushed into the straight
with a lead of lengths and retained it to
the finish without Simpson being called on
to apply the whip. Rionscup and Star God
were next and Kidaides fourth. Star God
finished best next to the winner, and was
second-lgst for about six furlongs. The
time was fast —2min. 31sec. Gwillian G.
dividends were £6 2s. 6d. for 10s., and £3
15s. 6d. for ss.
. Delwood’s colors were lowered in the first
division of the Fairfield Handicap by Income
(10 to 1), whom Tom O’Dea brought from
Adelaide with Kidaides; but Chemosh (6 to
4) registered his fourth victory in the second
division. However, he doesn’t look like prov-
ing a match for Veilmond at Randwick.
* * * *
Racecourse attendances have naturally
fallen off of recent weeks, and it is improbable
that the Ea*ster crowds at Randwick will rival
those of previous years. Yet the A.J.C.
has rarely offered finer programmes. Phar
Lap, Nightmarch, Amounis and Greenline
are all champions ; Chide, Loquacious, Donald.
Crucis and Kidaides are all good; and if
the two-year-olds don’t furnish some high-
class horses among them there is no going
on looks and performances. Nothing is
likely to trouble Phar Lap in the St.
Leger, though Cathmar is by no means a
tt c°lt, and may score at the meeting.
Judiciously ridden, Phar Lap should also
.Enough his weight-for-age engagements
with an unbeaten record.
Great horse as Greenline is, this Page can’t
see him winning the Doncaster with lOst.
tremendous burden to hump over the
last furlong of the Randwick mile. It is
questionable whether Greenline is capable of
giving his stable-companion, Raisin, 271 b.
over the distance, or Sir Chrystopher, the
grey from Newcastle, 381 b., or High Disdain
391 b.; and it is doubtful whether any of
the four will be galloping strongly over
the last hundred yards. This Doncaster
has a rare inter-Dominion and inter-
state flavor. Maoriland is worthily repre-
sented by Cimabue (9st.) and Gesto (Sst.
111 b.) ; Victoria by Spanish Galleon (Bst.
51b.), Parkwood (Bst. 41b.), Taisho (7st.
131 b.) and Myarin (7st. 91b.) ; Queensland
by Soulton (Bst.), Royal Flavor (7st. 121 b.)
and Myles-la-Coplen (7st. 51b.). And England
bred First Arrow. At 7st. 51b. he is nicely
treated, but on performances the best-handi-
capped horse in the race is Troilus, who has
Avon three races in succession in pretty good
company, and yet has only 7st. 21b. Troilus
is in a Randwick stable (Walker’s) which
shelters several other speedy ones, such as
Venetian Lady and Poitiers, and its obvious
preference for_ him is significant. Moreover,
Pereival is going to ride him. With Troilus
The Bulletin will bracket Lorason, a fine
cut of a three-year-old who was a creditable
second to Phar Lap in the Rosehill Guineas.
Lorason is so substantially built that the
weight (Sst. 41b.) should not bother him, and
he Avas running on at Rosehill, though obvi-
ously short of a gallop or two. Mainly on the
score of that second to Phar Lap Lorason
will be our first choice.
The Sydney Cup field will be anything
but high-class. Because of his fast finish
in the Warwick,Farm Cup Star God (7st.
131 b.) is noAv favorite ; but he ran like a
pig in the big summer handicaps at Rand-
wick, nor did ho seem to care for his job
in the early part of the race on Saturday.
Ividaides (Sst. 91b.) and Crucis (Sst. 81b.)
are still fancied in spite of their failure
at the Farm ; Crucis, of course, captured last
SLATHERUMWHACK RULES.
“Dash it all, old chap , don’t you replace the turf where you come from?”
“Only when we’re putting.”
year’s Sydney Cup and Ividaides (favorite)
was third. Victorians have a good opinion
of Caramelo (Bst.), and Queenslanders con-
sider there is hope for Soulton (7st. 121 b.)
and Royal Flavor (7st. 121 b.), while the
best has yet to be seen of Peacemaker (7st.
51b.), who is trained by shrewd George Price.
The doubt as to this promising customer is
whether he is sufficiently seasoned. The
Bulletin is going to plump for Gwillian G.
(fist. 121 b.). A horse that can, lead nearly
from start to finish of a mile and a half
race and finish strong, as this mare has done
on two successive Saturdays, should not be
troubled by another four furlongs. Piastoon
won his Sydney Cup after making his own
running, and so did Murray King; Piastoon,
moreover, was second in the Warwick Farm
Cup in his year, and Winalot was first in
both cups. Gwillian G. may repeat Winalot’s
dual victory. She is an uncommonly sturdy
and honest mare, and wonderfully well handi-
capped, considering her recent performances.
Fancies: —
Autumn Stakes: Nightmarch; next,
Amounis.
Sires’ Produce Stakes: Veilmond; next,
Whitewash.
St. Leger: Phar Lap; next, Cathmar.
Doncaster Handicap: Lorason, 1; Troilus,
2; First Arrow, 3.
Vaucluse Handicap: Abbots Lad; next,
Nut Cup.
Sydney Cup : Gwillian G., 1; Ividaides, 2 ;
Peacemaker, 3.
For two successive Saturdays race meet-
ings in Melbourne have been held on courses
that are under sentence of extinction.
Sandown Park had a reunion on April 5,
and Aspendale Park on April 12. Of all
suburban courses these are the most con-
venient of access. Trains deposit passengers
at the gates, Avhereas to reach Mentone or
Epsom a long walk from the railway is
entailed —unless the excursionist chooses to
risk his life by completing the journey in
motor vehicles madly driven through con-
gested streets. The Act restricting Vic.
racing provides for closing Sandown and
Aspendale. Why this should be defies ex-
planation.
Denny Canny, secretary of the Werribee
Racing Club, pulled off the Aspendale Plate
with Greener, a Greenstead gelding that
started its career in Tasmania. W. Ley-
shon, of Flemington, trains Greener, who
gained a place in the Oakleigli Plate but
had to be eased in subsequent track work.
Greener sported silk at Werribee on March
26 when not properly strung up, and, with
odds laid on him, lost by a head to Pytchley.
Favorite (at 5 to 4 on) for the Aspendale
event was Pecunia, a mare that M. T.
McGrath, trainer of Taisho, bought from
John Wren. Pecunia was relegated into
third place at the finish, Greener scoring
from the 20-to-l chance, Alligator.
No doubt McGrath is too intent on trying
to grab big money with Taisho to worry
over the non-success of Pecunia. The pecuni-
ary aspect of Aspendale sport was more
pleasing to bookmaker Mannie Lyons, who
fielded at Warwick Farm. The Park Handi-
cap went to Rosbercon, owned by Lyons
and trained by W. Jacobson, who brought
Aga Khan over to Sydney a short while ago.
Odds of 5 to 1 were obtainable about Ros-
bercon, a cramped price being accepted about
the Western District prad, Kenney. Another
candidate preferred to Rosberson was
Chalaki, from the stable of Ron Cameron,
who won a Melbourne Cup on The Parisian.
A week before Kenney had romped home at
Sandown. He resented being squeezed near the
finish on Saturday and faded out of a place.
Sandown Park form worked out more
accurately in the Aspendale Purse. Mervyne
and Loquacity had been second and third
(to Liquid Cry) in the SandoAvn Purse, and
they ran first and second respectively in the
Aspendale Purse. On form Mervyne ought
to have headed the quotes, but punters
declared for Loquacity. Having run third
to Walvin and Hebrus at headquarters,
Lyndon looked a moral for the Welter Handi-
cap, and duly came to light. Other first
favorites to score were Carwoola (Hurdle
Race) and Hightrim (Two-year-old Handi-
cap).
* * * *
“P.L.” : Percy Foster, AA r ho is in Sydney
with the Doncaster Handicap candidate,
Myarin, won a small event at Mornington
(Vic.) with Consuelo last week; but it did
not prove to be a happy augury, as Myarin
suffered defeat at Warwick Farm two days
later. George Yuill, owner of Consuelo, held
Myarin on lease when the Carwelkin gelding
captured most of his races. Some time ago
Yuill retired from business as a hotelkeeper
at Frankston. His turf ventures have not
been unprofitable, thanks to Foster’s skill in
placing horses. Percy is flying at high game
in attempting to land the Doncaster Handi-
cap, but if the track is fetlock deep in mud
Myarin might create a surprise.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
A big Sydney Stadium crowd saw Jack
Haines give Louis Vauclard a boxing lesson
for 15 rounds. Like most visiting pngs, the
Frenchman proved tough and game, but he
is no scientist. After the first round it
looked as if the people would be on their
way home early. Haines pumped lefts to
the face and ripped the same member to the
body; and a great right to the jaw staggered
the visitor just before the bell. But the
Gaul was a trier all the time, and in the
seventh round he had Haines on the retreat,
though his blows, aimed mostly for the body,
seemed to carry little sting. From the
eighth to the finish Haines hit him with
everything barring the referee. The Aus-
tralian weighed, list. 2flb. and Vauclard
list. 4|lb.
Footbrawl
“Hotham” : More than one departed bar-
racker for famous South Melbourne must
have done a thousand revs, to the minute
in his last long home when it was proposed to
change the uniform of the club —one of the
greybeards of Australian Rules football. Ever
since the Ilarrisonian code came into being
Souths have sported a white guernsey with
a diagonal red stripe across one shoulder.
It is suggested that the stripe be abolished
in favor of a band of the same color round
the body. There -is fierce argument as to
whether the change will be made, and friends
of over half a century are parting brass rags
on the question.
. * * *
“Fitzcray”: Not so long ago the Victorian
Football Association was declaiming bitterly
against the League for stealing its clubs
and players. Now that popular favor is
veering towards the Association, and the
League clubs have had their style cramped
by the restriction of payments to players,
the boot is on the other foot. Three Associa-
tion clubs —the payment restrictions do not
apply with that body—are eagerly bidding
for the services of Bun ton (B. 9/4/’30).
The darlings of several League clubs are
being enticed, one of them being G. Davey
of Carlton. Charles applied for a transfer
to Northcote a few days ago, but the “Old
Blues” threw out the application with such
determination that it hasn’t stopped rolling
yet.
* * * *
“Annan Water”: The greatest disaster
since Flodden fell on Scotland the other day,
when England Avon the international Soccer
championship by beating Scotland for the
first time since 1920, and by 5 goals to 2 at
that —the stiffest hiding handed out to the
Land o’ Cakes since 1893. It happened at
Wembley, and all this talk of Scottish par-
simony must be dismissed with the contempt
it deserves, since some 30,000 Scots hurried
south';by rail and cliar-a-banc to witness the
disaster. How the Sassenach came to win is
not yet clearly understood in face of all this,
especially as the cable says a band of six-and-
thirty pipers—the same number, be it remem-
bered, who accompanied the McPherson raid
so celebrated in song—emitted their distinc-
tive noises throughout the match.
# * * *
“Birkenhead Park”: The British Rugby
team which has embarked for M.L. suffered
the usual last-minute casualties, ttvo men
hating to drop out through injuries and
another for business reasons. The famous
English skipper and forward W. W. Wake-
field tvas the first, an injury received in
the international games refusing to mend.
Then M. P. Crowe, the Irish centre three-
quarter, cracked a collar-bone, and, finally,
P. D. Howard, the Oxford and England
forward, could not get leave. Wakefield has
been replaced by D. A. Kendrew, also an
English international; Crowe by LI. M. Bow-
cott, the Welsh centre; and Howard by H. C.
Jones, a lad from Lancashire.
* * * *
“Swing th’ Boot”: The Rugby League
inter-State matches between Bananaland
and N. S. Wales will commence on May
17 and 24 in Brisbane, the fixtures
clashing as far as possible with the visit of
the N.S.W. Rugby Union side to the north-
ern capital. In the same way, the Queens-
landers will figure in Sydney in tAVo games
in June, when the return Union matches
will also be on tap. The Maoriland pro-
fessional side which it is proposed to
assemble will be brought over as a rival
attraction to the British Union team when
the latter comes over from M.L. in July.
(Continued on page 41.)
Cambridge beat Oxford in the boatrace
by a couple of lengths; time, I9min 15sec.
* * * *
The N.S.W. cricket season ended with
Mosman first-grade premiers and club cham-
pions. Their best man was Love, Avho made
912 runs and was brilliant behind the sticks,
and the veteran Bassett bagged 68 wickets
for them. For Petersham, Tommy Andrews
notched 1150 runs—a first-grade record.


EXIDES Fly Over South Pole
in Byrd Plane!
r
Ff
i mm#
l • f.: ••:“&&&
IIIBII*
iir
ADMIRAL BYRD
x
aiWlisOiii^'v
r n
mm
■:'V fetflga
rn-
■ - ■
mm
BYRD EXPEDITIOM
USED
BATIERIES
FUNCTION PERFECTLY, OPERATING RADIO
AS FLIGHT IS MADE OVER SOUTH POLE.
ONCE again EXIDE Batteries have been true to the faith reposed in them
by the great explorers, scientists, and fliers of the world.
Recalling the gratifying service rendered by these Batteries on former Byrd
expeditions, EXIDES were selected for use on the recent trip to the South Pole.
As a result, EXIDES have the distinction of being the only storage batteries
ever to fly over both North and South Poles.
The following radiogram received from Malcolm P. Hanson, chief radio engineer
of the Byrd expedition, explains why the rest of the world learned of the
successful flight of Admiral Byrd:
“78WFA Little America,
Antartic, Dec. sth, 1929.
The Exide Storage Battery Co.
Glad to inform you Exide Batteries gave
splendid performance operating radio on Right
to South Pole
Malcolm P. Hanson, 11.05P.’*
But gratifying as it is to learn that the EXIDE Battery continued to function
while the ’plane winged its way over great ice-fields and almost insurmountable
mountains on its way to the Pole, it is exactly the kind of service the battery
was expected to render. EXIDE is the one thoroughly proven and fully tested
storage battery in all fields of service. It is just as reliable in cars as in air-
plane, submarine, and radio service.
EXIDE—THE LONG-LIFE BATTERY-MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N. S. WALES: Exide Battery Service Station, 54-56 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
VICTORIA: A. P. Sutherland, 2 Maffra Street (Queen’s Bridge), South Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Exide Battery Service (Q.), Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane, and Stanley Street, South
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 100 Currie Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: M. J. Bateman, Ltd., Magneto House, Milligan Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Medhurst & Sons Pty., Ltd., 95 Collins Street, Hobart.
Advertisement
j H. H. -/Sharpe, representing Exide Batteries, lie Castlereagh /Street, iSydney.


ADELAIDE’S
Most Modern Hotel
THE
HOTEL BOTANIC
NORTH TERRACE, CITY.
Delightfully Situated
Garden Frontage
Balcony Rooms
All Latest Appointments.
VICHY
&
m
HSMEh
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
*•* «
'V'S
Sb^
W. W. GREENER LTD., Birmingham
Wholesale Australian Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.,
405-07 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, C l.
G>ee?t*/ r S/\Y PRIEMD HaqEM
can co right round the
COURSE IN 50 . v>
Gert : "goodness, is> that
VERY FAST ? *»
SeRT: 1 SHD think So; But
he's G,OT An wonderful
NIBUCK?
GERt/OH ( is THAT FASTER TH*H
THE S\LVER bULUET 2 "
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Hagen and Kirkwood,
now in Queensland, had an unpleasant ex-
perience while playing an exhibition at Black-
town, a spot somewhere in the wilder
environs of Sydney. Opposed to two N.S.W.
professionals, the visitors were mercilessly
barracked throughout their game, the spec-
tators going so far as to applaud whenever
either of them was trapped or missed putts.
Under the circumstances, it is not surprising
that the tourists finished one down, to the
accompaniment of yelps of delight from the
onlookers.
* * * *
“Cramoustie” : Some ruffians played a dirty
trick on the Income-tax Commissioner, not
to mention Hagen and Kirkwood, when the
touring golfers were giving an exhibition
on Concord (N.S.W.) links. Intending
spectators were stopped some distance from
the course entrance gates by a picket, the
members of which announced that they were
there to take the entrance money. Surpris-
ing as it sounds, a number of confiding folk
paid up, and only realised their error when
they were bailed up at the gates by the
real cash collectors. A hurried expedition
back along the road failed to locate any signs
of the impostors. They had taken their
hook, and a nice little cash collection to boot.
* ii: » !|! *
“Yerong” : Queensland’s annual golf match
for the Anzac Cup—from which, by the
way, professional returned men are not
debarred as in N.S.W. —was won last week
by Tom Lawton, the Oxford and Waratah
five-eighth. The copper-topped one returned
a gross card of 77, and his handicap
was 9. No other amateur competitor
recorded a gross score under 80. Indeed
only two professionals, M. T. Stafford and
A. Denholm, both on scratch, tied with the
winner, having 77 each.
* * Ss *
“Hoylake”: Though there, is no official
world’s golf championship, there have been
several attempts to allocate the title. The
latest proposed is a match between Louis
Diegel, the American professional champion,
and Abe Mitchell, who holds the British
title. The pair are to meet in two matches
of 36 holes each, the stakes being £5OO a
side. Mitchell was beaten by the American
when the two met in the Ryder Cup match
in England last year, and is keen on squar-
ing the ledger. The match is to be played on
May 17 at Moorefield, near Leeds.
H* »j» H»
“The McH'aggis” : In spite of the indiffer-
ence of St. Andrews, the great army of mug
golfers is persistent in its claim that the
diameter of the hole should be increased.
The real reason is that putting is the bane
of these people, and of not a few who would
scorn to be included in the same category.
Half a dozen others are being put forward
to camouflage the obvious fact. One is that
a larger hole would abolish the stymie in
match play ; another is that it would do away
with the margin of error in various other shots.
A drive can take the whole width of the fair-
way, one side or the other, without handicap ,
an approach shot has 30 yards or so of
green for a target; the putt has only to be
an inch or so off the line at anything over
10 yards from the hole to miss and lose
hole or stroke.
* * *
“Hoylake”: It has been suggested that
the alleged American superiority in golf is
due to the fact that the early style of
swinging at a ball acquired at baseball by
the American boy is more on golf lines
than that acquired by the English youth
from cricket. In the name of the Prophet,
rats! The baseball stroke is a wild “cross-
bat” haymaker, whereas the golf swing for
all strokes must be in a fore and aft direc-
tion, as is the case in most cricket strokes.
The swing for the drive in cricket by a
free batsman is almost a replica of that
for a full wood shot in gjlf. Who has
ever heard of a baseballer making a name
at golf? There has been any number of
fine cricketer-golfers: to name only two,
A. E. Stoddart, who was a plus-man at
Blackheath; and Reggie Spooner, of the
Royal Liverpool, also behind scratch. The
quality of the golf played by some of the
last English XI. in Australia, including skip-
per Chapman, was a surprise to the locais.
The Watermen
“Shell”: The decision of Bobby Pearce
not to compete in the Australian sculling
championship in South Australia in May
will leave the race open to other aspirants
who have had little chance against the great
oarsman during the past three years. The
most promising of these is the Sydney young-
ster, J. R. Scott, of H.aberfield club. He
won the Yarra Sculls at the last Ilenley-on-
Yarra, and has been in second place to
Pearce in many of the latter’s championship
rows. Pearce is bound for the Empire Games
in Canada in August, and as he leaves Aus-
tralia in June, cannot spare the time from
business to figure in the Australian event.
Hi ❖ H* ❖
“Mortlake”: One of the spectators at the
Oxford-Cambridge boatrace the other day
was Australia’s own Stanley Bruce, himself
an old Cantab Blue and coach. Comment-
ing on the fact, one Conrad Skinner, who
was cox of the crews in which the rejected
of Australia rowrnd, confided to an inter-
viewer that Stanley the immaculate was
familiarly known as “Bruggins” when up at
the Light Blue university. It hardly seems
possible, and in any case it is just as well
the secret didn’t leak out during the late
Federal elections, at which, however, the
deposed Prime Minister was called pretty
nearly everything else.
t- * * *
“Slide”: Now is the season when the
Sydney flapper begins to deck her raiment
with ribbons of divers colors, and to talk of
institutions known colloquially to her as
“Grammar,” “Shore,” “High” and other
words more blessed even than Mesopotamia.
Few of these young females have ever seen
any of these places, and fewer still know
any of their frequenters. That does not
prevent their annual frenzy as the G.P.S.
rowing championship approaches. Someone
recently mentioned in The Bulletin that
there was a prospect of this regatta being
removed to some rural locality. For my own
part I hasten to suggest the Finke river.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: The Australian Davis Cup
team should now be ensconced in Switzerland,
where they will open their tour against the
local men at Zurich early in May. Pessimists
are wondering whether the altitude of the
meeting place, some 2000 feet above sea-level,
may not adversely affect the play of our lads,
since the ball “bounces very much higher”
at that height, as one tennis scribe notes.
What the gentleman would have written had
the match' been at Johannesburg, which is
about 6000 feet above the beach, writer
doesn’t like to imagine.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: There was an atmo-
sphere of political pre-selection ballots at the
meeting of the N.S.W. Tennis Association
to elect selectors for the next season. One
prominent potentate who has been a sflector
for years was turned down. A motion will
probably be tabled asking that the ballot
be recommitted, and that player represen-
tatives of sporting goods firms be inel'gible
for nomination. Two of these, Jack Craw-
ford and Jim Willard, a*re on the selection
committees, the first for the men and the
second for the women. The situation is
complicated by the fact that the Australian
authorities appointed Crawford skip, of the
Davis Cup team.
* $ * t-
“Te Rakiti”: The M.L. and Australian
tennis heads are in genteel holts over the
dates for the visit of the South African
players next season. The Australians want
to keep the visitors on this side the Tasman
until the national championships at the end
of January. The All Blacks consider that
this will delay the tourists until too late
in the M.L. season. Both sides are sparring
for the underhold, and unless the situation
eases the proposed visit may not eventuate.
If it comes, the Afrikander team is to con-
sist of four men and two women.
Car and Cycle
“Supercharger”: His repeated failures in
bis attempts on Segrave’s speed record at
Daytona Beach seem to have somewhat
soured the English driver Kaye Don, who has
been complaining of “differential treatment.”
When Malcolm Campbell set up new figures
some years ago, the Daytona Council, recog-
nising his value as an additional attraction
to the seaside resort, gave him £lOOO as bak-
sheesh, and paid all expenses, including fuel,
etc. This time the rude fathers of the hamlet
not only cut out the pourboire, but had the
nerve to charge the speedman a hundred
pounds as entry fee, while he and the car’s
designer, Louis Coatalen, have to pay the
expenses of each attempt themselves.
* * * *
D. R. Robertson writes: —Several incor-
rect statements are made and inferences
drawn by “Pore du Chemin” in some recent
comment on my record-breaking car run
from Melbourne to Sydney. It was a purely
sporting effort, and in no way an advertising
stunt, though having ■ obtained a certain
amount of help and road organisation from
the agents I felt bound to allow them to
make some use of my effort. My speed was
not 70 m.p.h., but, roughly, 57. Good organ-
ising and careful driving prevented any dan-
ger to the public. The car was merely
Stripped of its body, as is usual in such
cases, and was not reconditioned.
* * *
“Der Jong”: Southern Africa at least is
fast abandoning the old-fashioned methods of
trekking by ox-waggon or plain boot. Recently
two Pretoria men, C. F. Alderson and M. K.
Willis, drove a Chevrolet Six from Buluwayo
in Southern Rhodesia to Johannesburg in
two minutes under 14 hours for the 532
miles. Time would have been a lot better
but that the tourists struck the beginning
of the heavy seasonal rains. As it was it.
beat the previous best by over 5 hours. To
anyone acquainted with the shocking roads
of the Bushveld, with its clustering thorn
trees everywhere, the fact that the tyres
came through without a puncture is little
short of a miracle.
H* H» H»
“Kick Starter”: Dirt-track motor-cycle
racing has fairly got Old England and Broad
Scotland by the lug, as the latter would say.
At a meeting in London of dirt-track racing
promotors, the Master of Sempill, a Scottish
potenate of tonnage, announced that over
10 millions attended at the British dirt tracks
last season, despite the fact that betting was
banned. He added that, in view of the
introduction of the sport to Britain by Aus-
tralians, he hoped the Old Country would
endeavor to dispatch a team overseas for
the next Australian season to compete in
a series of speedway tests. Perish the thought!
This country is sufficiently obsessed with the
sports test d lirium without another pink
snake or purple tarantula being added to the
medley.
Miscellaneous
“Blade Sight”: Cables have been making
a fuss over aii alleged world’s record score by
one Major Bapty, of the Indian team now-
shooting at Bisley. He scored the possible
with seven shots over the 300, .100 and 600
yards, his tally ineluding, of course, 21 con-
secutive bull’s-eyes—los points. It was a
marvellous feat of concentration, but before
taking it as an outstanding one it is a
fair thing to a*sk about the conditions prevail-
ing. Was it an absolutely calm day with no
wind blowing from one side or the other,
head, fishtail, or following? What w 7 as the
light like, and at what time of the day was
the slioot done? To an enthusiastic target
pothunter like myself these particulars are
essential.
* * * *
“Spare Fairbanks”: I see that our old
pals Arthur Gilligan and Percy Chapman are
to figure in a* British talkie film entitled
“Playing the Game.” The cable announcing
the fact says that both are expected to
make a good job of their stunt. What I
want to know is why J. B. Hobbs and
Alan Kippax cannot be co-opted for the
same show. A talkie relating what Hobbs
really said to Alan in that famous Sydney
Cricket Ground incident in the second Test
against Chapman’s side, and what Alan sa*id
in reply to Hobbsie, would cram every pic-
ture house in Australia.
H» H*
“Fitzseray” : An English journal lias been
telling how Archie Maclaren discovered E.
A. McDonald. Archie was watching the
Tassy-Victorian at the nets when the 1921
team started practice at Lords, and remarked
to Macartney that he should do well in
England. The G.-G. retorted that he hoped
so, since Mac. hadn’t done much at home.
Somebody slipped. McDonald’s tally of 70
wickets in Australian Sheffield Shield cricket
were mostly collected before he made that
trip, and as his average for the tally stands
at 22.50 he couldn’t have been the hidden
light the chronicler makes out.
* * * *
“Spike” : The proposed tour of Maorilaaid
by a team of athletes selected from the Aus-
tralian universities is off. Sydney supplied
only two nominations, while Melbourne, from
w-hich a big entry was expected, failed to
respond. As M.L. could offer only one-way
expenses, it was felt that the post in these hard
times would be too great. Most of the Aus-
tralian universities a*re keen, too, on being
fully represented at the big inter-’varsity
meeting in Adelaide next June. A pity the
trip has fallen through, for M.L. sent a
sporting side across the Tasman last year to
compete at this same meeting and the com-
pliment was due for return.
H« :|: -l' He
“Amateur Pro”: Britain has been enjoy-
ing a newspaper controversy over the ever-
lasting amateur status. H. M. Abrahams,
the famous Cambridge and Olympic amateur,
throws an interesting castor into the ring.
He asks what is the position of an amateur
who goes to such a competition as the
Olympic Games, his employer continuing his
salary in his absence. As things are now,
he remains an amateur, but he is none the
less drawing money for work he is not doing—
money he would certainly not have x-eceived,
either, but for his amateur athletic prowess.
Hs Hs ❖ ❖
“Bamboo”: The Australian polo team now
in England were not long in getting into the
saddle. The four Ashton brothers started
practice at Malmesbury, their headquarters
in Wiltshire, last week, and will open their
tour at the Beaufort spring tournament op
April 21. All are members of the famous
Goulhurn (N.S.W.) side, and their ponies,
probably the finest collection any Australian
club can boast to-day, have aroused univer-
sal approval. The side will be without their
reserve man, Queenslander M. Bell, for a
time at least, illness in his family having
compelled him to return from Fremantle
while hound for England on the Orford.


hrSteV
Kit *
\
The Finest Gun Dogs
In England
are fed regularly on Ken-L-Ration, the
dog food supreme. Rich in food value.
' In Tins. READY TO SERVE.
A Perfectly-balanced Ration.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB
P. O. Box 1821, Melbourne
Ren-L-Ration
Winchester Rifle, Model 56.
22-Cal. Long Rifle only
Handles well
and
Shoots well.
fsd
The Rifle
for Small Game
Price, £5. Post free to all parts of
Australia.
The Gun House,
COWLES <& DUNN,
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Catalogue B.
Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
1 a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d’hote Dinner, 21/-
Special Supper from 10 o’clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant—
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/-
’Phone M 4131 for your reservation.
MEN ARE HUMAN
BY VANCE PALMER.
ILLU 10M&
DAFQFL* LINDSAY-
CHAPTER XXVI ( Continued ).
NOT a word did Boyd say about the
real object of his visit to Josie’s
sister. Josie seemed to have nothing
to say. She sat heavily in the rocking-chair
and played with the two children who came
squirming in, twisting their legs and look-
ing at the stranger with mischievous dark
eyes. Almost unconsciously Boyd took in
the various details of the room. It was
stuffed with furniture and knick-knacks—
bullocks’ horns mounted with plush, carved
emu eggs, colored supplements in poker-
work frames—but the most conspicuous
object was an enlarged photograph of Jim
over the piano. The boy stood with one
knee crooked, the handle of his stockwhip
pressed into his thigh, and his hat and
leggings looking too big for him; but there
was such life in his wide-open eyes and
smiling mouth that he seemed to be there
in the flesh. Josie caught Boyd looking at
the picture, and her eyes became large
and moist.
“Poor old Jim!” he said unsteadily. “It
don’t seem fair—him being smashed up
like that! He wasn’t old enough to tackle
the horse he did. They oughtn’t to have
let him.”
Her breast heaved and she turned her
head away suddenly. It was apparent that
there were large underground reservoirs of
emotion in her.
“No one was looking,” explained Boyd.
“I don’t think anyone saw him till it was
all over. These things just happen. It’s
life.... I was away at the time.”
It was Ella’s vigor and robust good-
humor that dispelled the air of constraint
that hung over the meal-table. When she
came flowing out of her bedroom there was
an exuberance about her that made the
occasion seem social and festive. She had
slipped on a dark cerise frock that suited
her ample figure; a whiff of pleasantly
scented powder floated around her when
she moved; her smile revealed the gold
fillings of her teeth. Then there was the
rich laugh Boyd remembered she had had
when a girl. He could not help comparing
her with Josie. Once Josie had possessed
more grace and natural charm than her
sister, but now she looked like a ghost
beside her, her eyes timid and rather vacant,
her face drained of blood. He suddenly
became conscious that Ella was talking
about Barbara.
“We heard she was back at Niva Downs,”
she said innocently. “Is that so?”
“I don’t know,” said Boyd. “Probably she
is. I haven’t seen anyone from over there
lately.”
It was unpleasant for him to have to dis-
cuss Barbara just then. He felt that Ella
was not as innocent as she seemed, that
she was probing him, and reading a sig-
nificance into any slight thing he said. If
he could talk to her alone for five minutes,
he felt, he might reach some basis of
reality and find out how she and Josie
regarded the situation; but when they
adjourned to the verandah afterwards
Fallon settled his little nuggety figure in a
canvas chair, and Ella sat opposite him,
asking questions about Abernethy and his
own plans. In her face he read a desire
to impress herself on him. She crossed
her legs and showed her silk stockings as
she recalled things they had shared as
children.
“You’re one of us,” her eyes said.
“There’s no reason why you shouldn’t be.
We could all be a happy family.”
It was only when he was going that, he
had a chance to talk to Josie alone. She
walked up to the yards with him, her
breath coming and going unevenly as she
moved at his side up the slight hill. Yet
the tenderness he felt for her was deadened
by a suspicion that Ella was watching them
from her bedroom window. He could not
altogether banish the thought of those
amiable, expectant eyes. For awhile they
did not speak, and then he said with blunt
directness:
“Well? Everything going all right, Josie?
You’re comfortable here?”
“Oh, yes,” she said. “Better than any-
where else Not that there’s anywhere
else I could go, even if I wanted.”
Inadvertently he had touched a spring
that let loose a flood of hysteria. She was
not comfortable, he found: her nerves were
strung up to a high pitch, and she was full
of little grievances.
He was bewildered by her incoherence,
and the way she spent herself in giving
details of what Ella had said on this or
that occasion. What did she want him to
do? There was Mrs. Geraghty in the town-
ship: she had been a nurse, and he could
easily arrange for her to take Josie in.
But, no! The very idea made a deeper
cloud fall over Josie’s face, and her eyes
look like a scared bird’s.
“I’d rather stay here,” she said stubbornly.
“I wouldn’t like to be away from my own
people.”
“All right,” he agreed. “But don’t go
brooding over little pinpricks that don’t
mean anything. I’ll be there if ever you
want me; you can trust me not to let you
down In the morning I’ll come back
and talk things over with Ella.”
CHAPTER XXVII.
The Scalded Plain.
The cattle were camped on a little scalded
plain among the timber, at the very edge
of the station boundary. He came upon
them just as they were settling down for the
night, the quieter ones already gathered
in a circle placidly chewing their cud, the
restless and hungry moving round the out-
skirts looking for grass or a chance to slip
away. Small fires were being lighted round
the camp. In the dropping dusk a couple
of men rode slowly around, flicking the
stragglers back into the centre and nursing
them into quietness. Where the pack-
saddles and blankets were piled in a litter
Larry and another man were stretched on
their backs, and the cook was frying some-
thing over the coals.
“Well?” Boyd greeted Larry as he rode
up. “How are they now?”
“Quiet as milkers’ calves,” said Larry sit-
ting up. “We’ve taken them slow, and
they’ve got full bellies. It’s a bad camp,
though. Don’t know why it should be, but
you can’t count on cattle, and one of
Mooney’s drovers had a hell of a smash-up
with a mob hardly a year ago. I wouldn’t
take any chances with these brutes.”
Boyd was fixing the hobbles on his
horse.
“We’ll manage to get a yard for them
every night from now on,” he said. “That
oughtn’t to be hard to fix up. All of you
look as if you wanted a good night’s sleep.”
The man at the fire came over, bringing
the steak in the pan. It was Mace. He
made no sign of recognition when he saw
Boyd, but laid the pan down and began
unfolding the strip of American cloth that
held the bread. He looked fatigued, sod-
den for want of sleep, and his fingers
fumbled as he took out his clasp-knife. The
rest of the men sat up and began to eat,
stoking the plain bread and meat into their
mouths without much relish. In the fire-
light their eyes seemed strained and lacking
in concentration, with little streaks of red
showing in the whites, and their faces and
clothes were ingrained with the dust of the
track. On the other side of the mob the
man on first watch was singing as he
plodded around, the monotonous sound of
his voice being broken by an occasional
clash of horns and the clink of condamines
from the timber. The smell of dust, of
sweat-stained saddle-cloths, of burning
gidya, was heavy on the night air.
“When we’ve delivered this mob of scrub-
bers, and I get down to Cafferty’s,” said a
long, lean man with a nose that dwarfed
the rest of his face, “there won’t be any
use calling me to breakfast for a week.
I’ll be dead to the world. ‘Cafferty,’ 111
say, ‘Half this cheque’s yours, but if you
don’t pull me up before I’ve gone the limit
I’ll tear the house down about your hairy
ears.’ He always knows I mean it when
I talk that way.”
“There was a sheila he had working for
him once,” began his mate. “A lively
piece with black eyes he’d brought in as a
bait, and one night when I’d ridden up
there bulging with money”
Boyd took his blanket and sauntered over
to the edge of the scrub, knowing the
desultory talk would last till they dropped
off to sleep. And he did not want to have
Mace’s dark, opaque eyes watching him
across the fire. He was oppressed by the
fellow’s presence. It was as if Mace had
some clairvoyant power of penetrating his
mind and following the twists and turns
of his thoughts. Almost as if Mace were
nearer to him than anyone else, a sort of
shadowy self that had become separated
from the rest of his being yet followed him
about in dumb mockery. Yet that was non-
sense! There was nothing strange in Mace
being there now. He himself had urged
Larry to pick him up at Cafferty’s and
give him a job.
He lay on his back, his blanket round
him and his head pillowed in his saddle,
wondering at the profound depression that
had taken hold of him, stealing up from
the ground like- cold. Josie? There was
no need to worry about her, he assured
himself. She wasn’t as unhappy as she
imagined, in spite of the tremolo that came
into her voice when she talked about her
surroundings. All women lived on the
edge of their nerves when they were in her
condition. And he would impress on her
that she had no cause to feel uncertain
about the future. Even if she found she
could not go on living at Ella’s!
“Yet that's as good a home for her as
any,” he told himself. “She’d feel like a
lost dog under anyone else’s roof. That
little outburst to-day didn’t mean alny-
thing.”
There remained, however, the. image of
her standing with sagging figure at the
rails, her eyes looking vacantly over his
horse’s neck into the timber. And again
compunction seized him, for he wanted to
close his eyes and let that image sink into
the darkness. He thought of the robust
way the old man would have treated a
similar situation. No heart-searching for
him about the consequences of his acts!
No little imps appearing before him in the
silence of the night to taunt him with
meanness or cruelty! He had probably been
generous to the women who had given
themselves to him in his roystering youth,
but he had never let any thought of their
future keep sleep from his eyes. Perhaps
there was something to be said for that
easy way of living, after all. Let the past
look after itself, and each sunrise bring a
new day!
But he could not, by such reflections,
dispel the shadow that brooded over him.
The old man and he were different in
essence, and Josie was not just a casual
woman whose bed he had shared. She was
Duncan’s daughter, young Jim’s _ sister.
Memories of her were bound up with the
place he would have to live in all his life.
It was nothing that that day he had been
able to look at her with detached eyes and
listen to her hysterical outbursts unmoved.
What mattered was that a nerve would
throb in him every time he saw the pepper-
ina drooping over the gate in the moon-
light, and that he would never watch
Duncan pottering about the woodheap
without a twinge. Life was a more
treacherous affair than it seemed! A man
had to dull his mind and senses as lie
passed through it or lay himself open to
all kinds of subtle thrusts! A visum ot
Barbara floated before his eyes. She wou .
have got his letter by now, and would prob-
ably be brooding over it. What would it
all mean to her?
He turned on his side for sleep. At the
fire thirty yards away there were a couple
of figures moving, flat and black as shadows
against the light. The man on first watch
had ridden up and slipped from his noise
and Mace was taking his place, his head
thrown back as he swallowed a panm.\in
of cold tea before going off. A silence hung
over the camp, but it was a silence com-
posed of multitudinous faint sounds, the
breathing of cattle, the imperceptible stir-
rings of the stunted trees reaching up into
the night air, the movements of the warm
earth itself. Against the star-powdered sky
a dark cloud was showing, creeping up like
some great sluggish animal rising from its
lair. From time to time a tremor of
restlessness seemed to pass through the
sleeping cattle, as if their brains were
troubled by the one uneasy dream.
“It’s my watch after Mace’s,” Boyd was
thinking. '“Better get some sleep
Wonder what that poor devil’s thinking
about as he rides round the cattle?”
His thoughts dissolved in mist. He was
back again in Palestine, lying almost where
he had fallen when the sun got him during
the long ride to the Jordan Valley. He was
not really struck by the sun, though; it
was a little deception on his part, because
he was tired of the monotony and futility
of the endless days, and had willed the end
of them, The troop had gone on ahead
and left him, no one noticing that he had
fallen. Never mind! He had had enough
of it all. A heavy torpor possessed him,
creeping up from his limbs to his brain.
For weeks he had concealed his secret sick-
ness, carrying on for the sake of his mates,
but in his heart he believed they were all
on a fool’s journey, and a small voice
whispered continually in his ear:
“Pull out! You’ve had enough.”
Well, he had pulled out, and there was
no one to witness his withdrawal. He
would lie there quietly till his fatigued
body melted and became one with the sand
beneath him.... But a woman was bending
over him, trying to rouse him. He saw
the gleam of her eyes, heard her mocking
voice accuse him of dropping his bundle.
It was Barbara—Barbara with the long
plaits and high boots she had worn as a
girl! A stream of vitality flowed from her,
filling him with new life. He laughed and
the feeling of emptiness and futility snapped
like a taut cord. He was ready to go on.
A flash of light penetrated his closed
eyes, and he woke to a roar like the break-
ing of a dam before a flood. He sat up
dazedly, flinging the blanket from him.
What had happened? At the very moment
the question flashed through his brain, he
realised the truth, realised also what he
ought to do. The mob had rushed at the
first flash and the only place of safety was
the fire. Already the other men had leapt,
out of their blankets, their hands clutch-
ing at their bridles.
But though he saw them, even projected
himself across the intervening space toward
them, his body was slower than his will.
The cattle were hurtling on through the
dark as though shot forward by some unseen
force, elemental fear let loose, the burst-
ing out of the fires beneath the earth’s
crust. There was a snapping of bones, a
crashing of timber....
(To be continued next week.)


O'
IS8"H
ists
tot
IT PAYS
to SIMONIZ a CAR
The finish lasts longer—
Keeps colors from fading—
Makes cars more beautiful and
Worth more on a “trade-in”—
SIMONIZ does much more than
just -polish. It provides a hard-
lasting surface that seldom needs
washing—all dirt, dust and traffic
accumulations can he wiped off with
a soft cloth without scratching the
finish.
When cars are dull and discolored
Simoniz Kleener quickly and
easily removes all blemishes,
renews the lustre and prepares
the finish for Simoniz.
The way to keep DUCO
and all finishes beautiful—
INSIST ON SIMONIZ
Sold by all Good Motor Houses, Service Stations and
Hardware Stores at 2/9 Small Cans; 5/6 Large Cans
In case you cannot obtain locally, see note below.
M
A
D
E
I
N
A
U
S
T
R
A
L
I
A
sd
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
SIMONIZ
PRODUCT—
SIMONIZ
PENETRATING
GRAPHITE
OIL
“LOOSENS THE TIGHTEST NUT.’*
Simoniz Penetrating Graphite Oil
instantly
DISSOLVES RUST,
LUBRICATES CAR SPRINGS,
STOPS CHASSIS AND BODY
SQUEAKS,
FREES GUMMED MOTOR VALVES,
LOOSENS ALL TIGHT NUTS
AND BOLTS.
Sold in handy Boz. can with long spout. Price 2/6.
IP YOU CANNOT OBTAIN SIMONIZ PRODUCTS
PROM YOUR USUAL DEALER, SEND POSTAL
NOTE TO
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS,
MOTORITE EQUIPMENTS PTY., LTD.,
188-96 Peel Street, North Melbourne.
FREE SAMPLES
OF SIMON IZ AND
KLEENER ON REQUEST.
HO
m m
AY!
Apply with a cloth
Every day...
the insistent demand for
a lower-priced quality
racket becomes greater!
The new complete “OXFORD”
series caters for every grade of
Tennis Player. Whilst each
particular Oxford Racket is
remarkably low in price, it is
indisputably comparable to
many of the higher-priced
rackets of to-day.
e m
£
ĕ
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
YOUR DESIRE
Luxurious trains, steamers, ho-
. tels—ever ready service from
C.P.R. officials for the absolute,
comfort of travelling guests-
stop overs in the Rockies and,
all points of interest conveni-j
ently arranged. No worries
/ any kind. Every detail planned J
in advance. Canadian Pacific j
f is the wondrous happy way toj
the United States and Europe./
Write for literature and details .Ml i, $
CANADIAN PACIFIC.
247 George Street, Sydney.
W
ml
TRAINS STEAMERS - HOTELS
TJie Worldsgreatest travel systenA
95
'V
marks the new
BiSSELL
It sweeps every
surface—easier!
You’re not getting a modern
sweeper unless it’s the im-
proved Bissell with “Hi-Lo”
Brush Control.
You owe yourself this up-to-
date sweeper which sweeps
everything from inch thick
carpets to linoleum so much
easier. No more need of hard
bearing down.
At leading merchants. Booklet on request.
Bissell Carpet Sweeper Co.
Grand Rapids, Michigan, U. S. A.
Export Department, 46 West Broadwnv
Oldest and Largest Sweeper Makers


m
0^
4T
>/
a
THE
MODERN
MODE
re
i


<3fl
7hp centre of Queen s /on c/s
' d/ 's/tngu/s/tec/ Soc/o/ Lite.
prtfl
RDTCR
BRISBANE
fsdfs
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 3780—10 Lines.
CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL
. (Controlled by Sydney Perries, Limited).
Sydney's well-known Harbor Hotel
ė
QUIET RESTFUL
COOL Open to the
Summer Sea Breezes,
with Private Beach and
Amphitheatre Swimming
Baths, Spacious Grounds
and Garage Accommoda-
tion.
TARIFF:
From Guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTER-
NOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’
trip from City by Ferry
or Motor.
RESERVATIONS:
Y3O 1 2 (4 lines).
Undei 5
Royal
Warrant
•II
ToH.M.
Kin^
George V
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
CMrfleidsieck'
mmmm
Australasian Agents—
S wiTt & Company U mltad
SYDNEY.
<*** (? I % *'’*«*
SWI3H
<*3tSpniIS3IJWQ
“aKOvawvHD
PELLISSQINI
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asrer is—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LEETER
Have you
ordered
Kraft cheese?
This Letter’s clothes specialist in London
reports that crinoline and fine silk straws
are already being chosen for Australian
spring wear. Some of the larger lia«ts, she
says, are entirely made of fine silky material,
and are so transparent and floppy that
they are almost imperceptible on the hair.
They are seldom lined, and the brim droops
over the face and the back of the neck like
a veil that comes from nowhere. Pyjamas
are the latest on the tennis courts, and
nothing is thought about them. Molyneux
introduced them, and they really are very
comfortable. Since they look like a very
wide skirt, they are not conspicuous. A
good many women players on the Riviera
courts have adopted them, and they will
probably be seen this year on the centre
court at Wimbledon.
The blouse usually worn in London has
a smart cross-over front with two large
buttons, and the belted waist is easy fitting.
The inserted pieces at each hip are cut to
the figure, while godets give fulness to the
front and there are fine pleats a«t the back.
Sea-kid is the name given to a new leather
for afternoon shoes. It looks like shark, and
the designers say it is from “a fish found m
the Tropics.”
With her evening frocks, mostly black, a
girl just back in Sydney from Europe is
wearing one of the Molyneux jackets in
ermine. It is very short and has a roll
collar. The Greek key pattern is traced in
silver on a pair of black crepe-de-Chine
evening shoes that also sport silver leather
heels.
If you’ve neglected to see the Golden
Fleece exhibition, there’s still to-day and to-
morrow to visit David Jones’s. In manu-
facture, Victoria leads elder sister in finish
and fineness of weave. This exhibit is truly
the delight of the exhibition. No crepe-de-
Chine underwear is more light and delicate
than the airy wool-stuff from Bendigo. An
American business man at the opening of
the exhibit stood before this section and
remarked: “Well, I’ve seen the best from
the best houses overseas, an’ this little show-
can stand equal with them. They’ve sure
accamplished something here!” But elder
sister scores with its blankets, particularly
the lovely baby ones with their corner deco-
rations of cuddly ducks and dogs. Tas-
mania’s knitting yarns are a revelation. Mrs.
O. S. Collins testifies that warm comfort can
come out of Darlinghurst with her wool-filled
quilts. These are just as alluringly artistic
as the satin down-quilts, and very nearly as
light.
The sheep Colonel Macarthur Onslow loans
from Camden Park have been terribly bored
by the whole thing. Maybe they are father
piqued, the crowd having regarded them as
mere- sheep and not as descendants of the
aristocratic pioneers Macarthur brought to
Australia in 1804. Anyway, they are the
least interested and most unhappy-looking
things in the exhibition, although accommo-
dated as befits their lineage.
The quaintest thing about the opening of
the show was that every woman viewing
it was clad, so far as one could see, in silk,
satin, cotton —indeed, everything but wool
except for a couple of felt hats. Which only
shows how very badly this exhibition was
needed.
The Bulletin has a niche at the Easter
Show,, which opened yesterday (Tuesday),
but this year it is crowded by its little sister ;
the “Mirror” exhibit is attracting most of
the women’s attention, and a good deal of
the men’s. There, for all the world to see
how smart home-made garments can be, are
a quartette of patterns, three of them free
patterns. from recent “Mirrors,” made from
inexpensive materials looking well enough
to have cost guineas to produce. Had it
been for sale a smart tweed coat could have
found a hundred customers already, and
every mother knows that the adorable
smocked coat was just made for her
own blue-eyed toddler. The pyjamas have
been besought by several brides-elect, who
have had to console themselves with buying
patterns to make replicas. Those women
who did not know that they could obtain
Australian-cut patterns for so much less than
overseas ones are making up for lost time
and keeping the cutting department busy.
The most delightful of all the welcome
homes to the Chief Justice and his lady
was the garden party arranged by the Kelso
Kings in the tree-trimmed grounds of Quambi
in the genial warmth of Saturday afternoon’s
sunshine. It was cleverly arranged, for
while it -was a delightfully friendly social
affair it brought appreciable monetary sup-
port to the worthy St. John Ambulance Asso-
ciation. Boy Scouts formed a guard of
honor when the Lieut,-Governor arrived
without a vicereine, rather late because he
had opened the Brookvale Show. The host-
ess receiyed on the lawn, her warm, coppery,
autumn-toned toilette contrasting most agree-
ably with the emerald lawns and myrtle-
green trees. The guest-in-chief also favored
brown, but of demure tone in silken fabric
finished with stone-marten fur. Miss Olive
Kelso King graced the occasion in a honey-
colored woollen sports suit, and sister Hazel
wore . wine color. The cadet corps of the
ambulance—school lasses rising 10 to 16 —
gave most efficient demonstrations, and the
Boy Scouts kept up their prestige with
exhibits of first aid to broken bones. The
youngsters were rewarded with a party all
to themselves in the breakfast rooms. A
wonderful orchid flaunted its beauty on an
Australian cedar table in the reception-
room, and roses and dahlias in amber and
rose tones were in profusion.
Archbishop Wright’s wife sails to-morrow
by the Tahiti and will wait in Maori land
for her husband, who leaves for the Lambeth
Conference as soon as his special Easter
duties are finished. Mrs. Wright will repre-
sent Sydney in the pageant of the Council
of the Mothers’ Union, which is to take
place in the Albert Hall. The Union here
gave its president a farewell tea-party at
Farmer’s, and said good-bye with del-
phiniums and a quart of eau-de-Cologne.
The ball on the Tanda for the Navy
League had an unexpected setting when a
great rainstorm broke just as the revel-
expectant patrons were coming on board. The
lucky ones were those who’d been asked to
dinner by shipping-magnate W. A. Mackay
and master-mariner Pilcher. The male sec-
tion of these gallantly dashed to the assist-
ance of the crew, who were carrying
umbrellas to help the less fortunate to
shelter. Once over the gangway there was
ample protection of enclosing canvas ; but at
times the water streamed over the dancing-
deck, and oftentimes the paddlers could not
hear the music for the drumming of the
rain. Mrs. Mackay and Mrs. Pilcher helped
the hosts to entertain. The Premier was
among the advance guard, and he looked
most happy to be squiring daughter Nancy
in her long uneven skirts of white tulle.
Earlier during the week there was a ball
on board the Cathay, when over 300 were
entertained by the captain and some P. and
O. officials. It was really a farewell, as the
Cathay will not make Sydney her Australian
home-port again. In future she will end
and begin her trips at Brisbane.
Florence Martin, shown herewith, has been
visiting Sydney after an absence of a quarter
of a century. She is the eldest surviving
member of the
immense fam-
ily that Chief
Justice James
Martin had by
his union with
the late “Bill”
Long’s eldest
sister, Isabella.
The original
Long was a
m i 1 1 i onaire,
whose home,
T u s c u lum,
stands to this
day in Mac-
leay-street, but
most of the
wealth he left
behind hi m
vanished in the
bank smashes
of the ’nineties.
Miss Martin
took a chance
with her patrimony, made a fortune, and
has since lived on the proceeds, at first in
France (where she had a chateau) and later
in the U.S.A. The youngest Martin sister
married Harry Manning, K.C., and their
daughter is being given a trip abroad by her
fairy-aunt. One of the girl’s uncles, by
the way, is Fred Manning, whose war novel
is now cursing its way through the “Even-
ing News” as a serial.
With all these women’s movements it is
refreshing to read that poor old dad is
getting an occasional mention. Acting-
Professor Gladys Marks, with her usual
polished fluency, advised the members of the
Ivooroora Club to educate their fathers —she
was speaking as the club’s guest at luncheon.
The members of the club are business girls
and they pick out the distinguished women
of the community—women who, by their
own energies, have lifted themselves out of
the ruck jobs—and lunch one each week.
They do it briefly during the hour allotted
for lunch.
The Red Cross annual conference ends this
afternoon at Vaucluse Park, where delegates
will present branch reports in the charming
surroundings of Wentworth’s old home. The
Premier presided at the opening session at
St. Anne’s Hostel, Bondi, on Monday, and
the Civic Commissioners lent the reception-
rooms at the Town Hall yesterday for the
annual meeting. The Red Cross still does
admirable work amongst those whose needs
most ordinary citizens have forgotten, but
compared with the days when we were war-
driven the conference was a skimmed-milk
affair.
Just dead D. H. Lawrence, the famous
novelist, who came to Australia and lived
here awhile with such an absence of literary
tom-toms that we were only aware of his
stay after he had gone, was an enormous
admirer of The Bulletin. He devoted half
a chapter of “Kangaroo” to the pink lady.
He says of his hero Somers that “The Bul-
letin was the only periodical in the world
that really amused him. English magazines
were too piffling, too imbecile, but the ‘Bully’
was a lively creature. He liked its straight-
forwardness and the kick in some of its tan-
trums. It was just stoical and spitefully
humorous.”
You’ve chortled over square roods and
perches of James Edmond’s writing, and
you’ve had his
portrait; but
you haven’t
thus far met
his younger
daughter, Doro-
thy—on this
page, at any
rate. Now she
gets a welcom-
ing hand by
reason of her
engagement to
Geoffrey
Molony, of
Woollahra. So
presently there
will be two
Geoffreys in
the family: for
this paper’s
brilliant editor
of other days
has a sturdy
grandson Geof-
frey, son of Major Clyde Moyes, groom-m-
-chief to The Bulletin’s “Wild Cat.” Clyde
married elder-daughter Nina.
Ralph Piddington, M.A., only child of
the gentleman who writes with such charm
and does other things with such harm,. with
his co-appointee Gerhardt Laves, of Chicago,
has left for his work in the West. They
have been appointed under the Australian
National Research Council to study anthro-
pology outside Broome. Ralph’s wife went
with him to help. She was Marjorie Barnes,
a fellow-student at the University with him.
They were married only last winter. A
number of their Uni. and other friends gave
them a farewell party at the Ambassadors,
where Mrs. Ralph said good-bye in delicately
shadowed orchid mauve that showed up her
red-gold hair and fair skin.
Bertha Clarke, a sister of The Bulletin’s
Eva, is preparing an itinerary for a tourist
party which she is to conduct through Japan,
leaving here in September. There autumn
presents glories of chrysanthemums and
maple leaves. These voyagers will go off
the beaten track to beauty spots known only
to those who have resided in Japan. Bertha
worked there for six years.
Beulah Bolton, of the Bush Book Club,
told a few happy stories of Outback after
luncheon with the Society of Women Writers,
this among them. One of the club’s members
on the North Coast wrote to tell of the
failure of her brother to get his wife into
the township for a very important event.
“The baby was born by the roadside,” she
wrote, “which was all beautiful with golden
wattle, so we’ve christened her Wattle, and
she is a wonderful baby, considering all
things. Her mother, however, did not do
so well. The fact of baby being born on
the roadway upset her. You see, she’s an
English girl and not used to such experiences,
as she’s only been in Australia 11 months.”
The Women Writers were saying “So-
long” to Beulah, for she leaves at the end
of the month for a holiday in Queensland.
There was quite a Queensland flavor about
the party; among the guests were artist
Roy Parkinson and his blue-eyed wife, and
Nancy and Mollie Nield, of Brisbane. Pre-
sident Florence Baverstock knew the Nield
girls’ grandfather, Dr. Nield, when he and
her father, David Blair, were among Mel-
bourne’s very best-known literary men.
Gladys Owen, 0.8. E., who returned by
the Oroma, is one of the local women-
artists who have done notably well abroad.
She had an exhibition of Australian land-
scapes in Bond-street three years ago that
stirred the “Times” itself to praise. She
gravitates between England and Australia,
having near relatives in both countries. Her
father is Justice Langer Owen, and a sister
married Captain Elliott, a cousin of fair-
haired Lady Violet Astor, who was here
recently with the Press Conferencers.
The Bush Brothers have an admirable
record of service, and now it seems we are
going to hear something of Bush Sisters.
Deaconess Reece paused on her way through
to England last week, after five years in the
Croajingalong district —paused long enough
for the Bush Church Aid Society to throw
, verbal and floral bouquets at her for her
pioneering work. The Bush Aid is now
training seven women, some of whom are. to
work in the lonely districts at the head'of
the Great Australian Bight.
Norman Porter, lecturer in Philosophy at
the University, returns thanks that his
term of grass-widowership is up. His wife
has come back from Melbourne, where she has
been showing off the Christmas-born heir,
Quentin Noel, to grandparents. The lady
was Beth Colquhoun, daughter of artist
Colqulioun. Her philosopher once had artis-
tic ambitions. He was a pupil of Meldrum,
but a scholarship at Melbourne University
made him decide to make art merely a hobby.
Fair Daisie Clayton, of Cremorne, is
arranging a set for the Shakspeare Ball, and
will depict the fateful Queen of Scots with-
out the conventional head-dress, but wearing
a Brittany Cross which Mary Brigham’s
mamma has taken from the family heir-
looms to lend her. A little later, at a wed-
ding, the queen will be Mary’s chief ’maid.
Harry Tighe, who has made himself a
name in London’s world of letters with 16
novels and a few plays that have been pro-
duced, is giving Sydney the once-over after
20 years, and it is refreshing to hear his
songs of delight—so many returned wanderers
wail about how the place has changed for
the worse. The novelist and playwright
was the lion at the Kretschmann Club last
week, and told about the struggle of himself
and others before reaching their reward.
Another sign of the times —Romano’s lias
been closed down for lunches and teas.
The old Hordern home, Retford Hall, at
Darling Point, after long silence, was opened
again for social amenities when Anthony
gave a ball to present daughter Mary to the
world of gaiety—the lass recently finished
her education in England. The excitement
of the evening was watching the sparks of
Betty Willsallen’s betrothal ring presented
by the Clive Baillieus’ heir. Betty is lovely
like her mother, Mrs. Percy Willsallen, of
Point Piper.
Artist-master Julian Ashton felt sorrow
at the news of the death of Charlotte Pickin,
who as Charlotte Davis was one of the
brightest of liis pupils in years gone by.
The lady went to Paris to - continue her
studies and stayed, held by a doctor husband
over the other side —he died some few years
ago. As an artist she made a considerable
name in England.
The Sydney Unitarian Church lost its
oldest inhabitant when Miss Emma Free-
man died. The first bethel of the order was
opened in Macquarie-street in 1858; and
there shortly afterwards Dr. Stanley baptised
seven members of the Freeman family,
Emma being the youngest. For 77 years the
lady has been amongst the constant atten-
dants.
The yearly ball to help the Sacred Heart
Hospice at Darlinghurst is already launched.
May 21 and the Wentworth are the time and
place.
The youngest of the Australian air-routes
has proved itself a boon-giver to the sick.
For years a Brisbane woman had been seek-
ing opportunity to get to Sydney for treat-
ment for a disease so painful that the journey
by train or motor was out of the question.
Then came the Airways service, with its
five hours between terminals and its almost
vibrationless passage. The lady was carried
carefully to the ’plane and is now in Sydney
under the medical care she had coveted so
long.
A note from a southern capital:—
Back in 1919 our little city possessed a rival to
the unconventional girl the Letter lately mentioned.
Boarding with an elderly couple was a tall, wiry
youth with a thin face and a mop of curly, copper-
covered hair. He worked in a garage, was “Squeaker”
on account of his high-pitched voice, and was one
of the most reckless young devils imaginable. He
was the acknowledged leader of a band of a dozen
gay lads—once he climbed the spire of a local
church to hang a black flag bearing a skull and
crossbones from the top, 90 feet above the ground.
He also fought—and licked—the leader of another
push for insulting a girl. One day “Squeaker”
and three of his followers borrowed a yacht, went
for a sail, and before it was over the romance
thudded. In trying to tack they jibed the yacht, the
swinging boom knocked “Squeaker” overboard and
he was half drowned before his companions rescued
him; and in attempting resuscitation the lads dis-
covered that their leader was a girl. They reclothed
her, but when she recovered a single glance at her
companions told her that her secret was out. Next
day “Squeaker” was missing and shortly afterwards
she took on matrimony and a new name.
Next Week. —Special Anzac Number of
“The Bulletin.” Read “The Gateway.”
Read the Special Verse. See the Special
Illustrations. Sixpence as Usual.


or Ike Quiet
ę
ě
e
Sole Agents for N.SAV.:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co.,
SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for Queensland:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co.,
Wool Exchange, Eagle St.,
BRISBANE.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co.,
Cnr. Bourke & William Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Agents for W.A.:
Lionel Samson & Son,
FREMANTLE.
Sole Agents for S.A.:
Gibbs, Bright & Co.,
Grenfell Street,
ADELAIDE.
Sole Agents for Tasmania:
MacFarlane Bros.,
117 Macquarie St.,
HOBART.
è
LIFE POWER SAVINGS
The extra in all three is guaranteed to every purchaser and user of the celebrated
mA
é
c
4
vu
<
S£3
Australian Made and Unexcelled by Any Batteries in the World
EXTRA LIFE—Yes, a Diamond Battery lives longer. It provides not days’ or weeks’, but months’ additional
service, because it is “Eight Weeks Fresher” than Imported Batteries.
Diamond Batteries are constructed under the “section-protected” principle—each cell is specially insulated to
safeguard against leakage and loss.
EXTRA POWER—Diamond Batteries, as a result of the “Section-Protected” construction, have available increased
power, which in turn means better volume from your set.
The postal departments, who are big purchasers of Diamond Batteries, test the “Diamond” against the leading
batteries of the world, and demand a specified output.
During the course of the contract the Diamond Batteries have given a much larger watt-hour output than specifica-
tion demanded—a tribute to Diamond Batteries.
EXTRA SAVINGS—Diamond Batteries not only save in running costs, but they are offered at lower prices than
imported—they are acknowledged as the world’s highest standard and stand pre-eminent for real economy.
PRICES :
“C” BATTERIES.
No. Type. Size. Volts. Price.
1 Super 4.5 3/«
TORCH UNITS.
Single Cell . . 1£ diam. x 2£ high 1.5 Bd.
Diamond Batteries stand for the advancement of Australian industries—following the alteration in the tariff, the
number of employees at the works have been doubled.
When Diamond Batteries are purchased you are helping to support Australia, and your money remains in the
country. You also pay less for better batteries.
There are 35 Different Types of Diamond Batteries for all purposes.
If you have difficulty in procuring, write direct. Catalogue Free.
AT ALL RADIO DEALERS.
DIRECT FACTORY DISTRIBUTORS:
THE HENDON ELECTRICAL COMPANY,
Ground Floor, Whitehall. Bank Place, Melbourne. Cl. ’Phone: F 4952.
REG. ROSE & COMPANY, N.S.W. Representatives,
Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney.
J. B. CHANDLER & CO., Queensland Representatives,
45 Adelaide Street, Brisbane. \v.


ThornyckofT
FREIGHT
and
PASSENGER
CHASSIS
STAND 26
Royal Agricultural
Show
Post free
h
an®
Write for booklet to BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
This booklet is a little
work of authority. It con-
tains a concise guide to the
rearing of infants, dainty
invalid recipes which
relieve the monotony of
plain milk diet for invalids
and the aged, and much
other valuable information.
Food
R«rd. Tradk Mark.
SEASONS MAY COME and
SEASONS MAY GO
But the holiday appeal of
Mt. Buffalo
National Park
never varies.
Spring, summer, autumn and winter
alike, the mountain scenery is the
finest in Australia, just as the Gov-
ernment Chalet is the finest holiday-
house in Australia.
Consult the
Government Tourist Bureaux,
Queen’s Walk* Melbourne, or
Martin Place, Sydney.
THE PASSAGE
BY VANCE PALMER
ILLUSTRATIONS BY ARIA
"What he had really seen in her eyes was a belief that fishing was a rotten
game, fit only for poor devils like him, who couldn’t use their heads."
CHAPTER I.
Off Shore.
T tt „ , , ~ , 4.1 „
HE anchored dinghy rocked gently on
the long swell. Westerly winds, coming
from the land, had flattened down the
sea so that not a ripple broke its smooth skin,
but there was a rhythmic heaving of its huge
bulk as if it still responded to the original
movement of the tides. Above, very high
up, the sky was streaked with long, un-
ravelled threads of white that frayed out
to nothing. For three days it had been
blowing up there, giving the thridded
heavens a cold look, in spite of the way the
sun flooded through. It had no heat in it,
that sun, except at noon; it was like a
silver flower that you could stare at with
unblinking eyes. The crystal currents of
air had taken the summer sting and glitter
from it.
Lew, with one line in his hand and the
other payed out over the bows, sat in the
stern gazing eastward toward the far
horizon. A vast emptiness, in which noth-
ing was visible but a white gull, searching
the watery plain with quick, avid eyes and
occasionally dropping with a splash! Now
that the westerlies had cleared the spume
and sea-mist away and the foreground was
not broken by reared crests, you had the
sense of looking out into immense distances,
Almost into South America! Somewhere
over there it lay, that strange continent,
beyond where sea and sky met. When he
had come out fishing with his father on
such bright, miraculous mornings as a boy,
Lew had imagined he could faintly see
the snow-capped peaks of the Andes.
The sea seemed more majestic, too, on
these days, more conscious of its power
than when it was being whipped into
tumult. Its steady bi'eathing made the
boat lift like a tiny shell and strain at the
anchor that was rooted among the sea-
grass and dead coral below. A couple of
fathoms down was the crumbling remains of
a reef, where the red coral-cod swam idly
from cave to cave, and the gaudy parrot-
.fish flitted through marine jungles as mazy
and fantastic as any on land. A fierce,
• , ~r . a ,i • .v /
intense life went on down there m that
SfSfC! TS SMS
of it were darkened. It was only on these
diamond-bright days at the beginning of
winter that you could peer down through
thg dear water and see the ra inbow-tinted
fi s fi darting by in shoals, the giant anemones
stretching out their horny tendrils, the lazy
carpet-sharks threading their way through
labyrinthine passages. Forests of fruiting
water-shrubs, grottoes where monstrous
shapes brooded m the half-dark, stretches of
clear sand on which slugs lay like black
cucumbers!
A fascinating world for Lew, one that
liberated his mind! He had come out over
the bar in a bad mood, chewing the rag, as
old Uncle Tony said, because of his feeling
that too much weight was being put upon
his shoulders. A man shouldn’t be forced
to cany the heavy end of the log all his
days! He shouldn’t have to keep his back
bent, day in and day out, while the rest of the
family got anything good that was going!
Yet his mother didn t consider him when
she was making her plans, never had con-
sidered him. She was talking of sending
Hughie away to school now—as if they
hadn’t had a hard enough j ob to keep I re *,
and Marnie with clothes on their backs and
shoes on their feet! Pulling continually
against a headwind; that was what it was
like; and he d had a bellyfull of it. I
there w r as one thing he d looked lonvard to
it was the day when young Hughie worn
leave school and lend him a hand with the
nets, but that morning he had found his
mother nursing a fixed resolve that Hughie
would never become a fisherman.
“I don’t care how hard I work as long as
he £ e t :S a chance. He couldnt stand being
outAn all weathers, up.to his waist in watej
you can, • & . , -j,
'" J chest on him tosp . o
tor this sort o ii e.
All bunkum She had sarf the same sort
of thing about Fred and F ed was tough
as tarred canvas :able to bullock hi? way
anywhere. W ha , - y rotten
eyes was a belief that-fishing was airotten
° n G-VoL- P i-, pfir ic And deen down
that ; where wotld they all be
ne 1 .'r u r A j crirn p
now if he hadnt used fiis head to some
uuvv Tr , , „ OQ _ a? nf
Hughfe had brains; everyone was of one
mind about that. Wasn’t Uncle Tony
always calling him in when anything went
wrong with the engine of the boat, and
didn’t old Kunbel at the store send for him
when he was behind in the monthly
accounts? But Hughie was bound to find
a use for his brains, wherever he was. Why
should his mother be always thinking of
the younger ones—Fred, Marnie, Hughie—
never of him? It was no boy’s job keeping
a roof over the heads of the lot of them!
He hooked a four-pound snapper and
drew it up through the clear water, stripping
it from the hook and flinging it into the
well of the boat with the others. They had
been biting freely, and he had a good
catch now—snapper, kelp, parrot-fish,
vivid with scarlet and black, rainbow-fish,
whose delicate colors faded as the water
dried on them, and spotted sea-bream. A
couple of cases, he reckoned, casting a prac-
tical eye over the mass! There had been
bad weeks for fishing with the nets in the
Passage since the last of the whiting had
gone, and this was the first time he had been
able to come out over the bar into deep
water. It was a matter of making the best
of your luck while it was going. To-
morrow the sea might be up again, pounding
in heavy breakers toward the beach and
making a welter on the bar.
The boat swung a little with the tide and
he sat facing the land, gazing at the red-
roofed cottages among the tea-tree, the
curd-white strip of bathing beach, the pan-
danus palms making decorative patterns
on the cliffs. Above everything towered
the lighthouse on its cleared, green knoll.
A few holiday-makers clambered over the
rocks below the headland that the outgoing
tide had left bare, and youngsters raced
along the sands on shaggy ponies, their
voices coming faintly over the water like a
twittering of birds. The whole world was
a little above itself to-day. On the low,
massed trees of the foreshore the afternoon
sunlight lay mellow, and colors came out
strongly, the yellow of sandstone cliffs, the
blue smoke from hidden chimneys, the
henna-red of the lighthouse dome. Apart
from this surfing-beach with its suggestions
of a light, holiday life, and almost hidden
by a bend of the land, stood the fishing
village—half a dozen shanties and houses,
with ricketty jetties running out into the
smooth water of the Passage. Beyond rose
the mountains in a wall, purple in the clear
air, yet so near that you could almost
pick out the threads of road running up
their sides.
“Time to go in!” thought Lew, watching
the dropping sun.
But though the fish had ceased biting he
remained with the slack line between his
fingers, steeped in reflection. He didn’t
want to go in; out there on the slowly
heaving water, where there was no craft but
his own little boat, he had a sense of har-
mony he was unwilling to lose. An assur-
ance flowed into him there, had always done
so. Life, his own life, was good enough;
he hadn’t anything to grizzle over, really!
That feeling of pulling against the tide, of
being at war with his surroundings, was
nothing but bile, after all! He could sit
there for hours, as quietly as a cowrie work-
ing in a hidden crevice on its enamelled
shell, thinking of the mysteries <if the reef
that ran for over a thousand miles to the
north, a few fathoms of water on one side
of it and unplumbed depths on the other;
trying to make out the orchards, small as
thumb-nails on the ranges fifteen miles away;
letting his thoughts and sensations flow
from one channel to another. The slanting
sun streamed into his brown body. He was
a gull skimming through the still air with
spread wings; he was an anemone curled up
waiting for the wash of the incoming tide;
he was a carpet-shark drifting sluggishly
along through the forests of water-weed!
A tug on the heavy line, baited with a
mullet, at the bows, and he sprang up as
(Continued on page 51.)


The Management of the
WENTWORTH HOTEL
hope to have the pleasure of accommodating,
this Easter, all of the guests who spent Easter
at the Wentworth last year.
Wire or write for reservations.
The famous Wentworth Ballroom will be open
every night during
EASTER
i
on
mmnmmmwi
WEEK
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know —from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 200[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
The Uni’s. Commemoration Week led off
with a very enjoyable masque ball at Melba
Hall, and on the following' night there was
an orchestral concert in Wilson H’all, the
acoustic properties of which proved excep-
tionally suitable for such music. Though
attendance was good the tickets were priced
a bit too low, and the recital resulted in
financial loss. . The Stravinsky Suite from
“The Fire Bird” was a particularly fine
effort of the and Tschaikow-
sky’s Fifth Symphony also "went well. The
Russian baritone Nicolai Nadejine elicited
storms of applause. A new orchestral com-
position, “Dargo—A Mountain Rhapsody,”
by Hubert Clifford, a graduate in science of
the Uni. and a sound musician, was con-
ducted by the composer, who explained that
the piece w T as inspired by a walking tour in
Gippsland, and was an endeavor to depict
the loneliness of the wanderer and his
reaction to the ruggedness of the scenery.
The Women Graduates’ Association, repre-
sented by about 240 members, had dinner at
the Uni. cafeteria on Thursday. The presi-
dent, Dr. E. McLennan, controlled the pro-
ceedings, which didn’t take much controlling.
A chatty account of travels over Europe
and ’Murca was given by Miss M. Gutteridge,
principal of the Kindergarten Training Col-
lege. The big thrill of the evening was the
announcement of the first winner of the
Research Fellowship awarded by the asso-
ciation. The honor falls to Florence Ceder-
liolm, a bright maid who has reason to be
glad that Melbourne didn’t go dry, as she
is assistant analyst at the Carlton Brewery.
She picked up first-class honors, the Dwight
prize and the Dixon final scholarship in
chemistry while going through the local shop,
and boasts an M.Sc. degree. She intends to
carry out her research work in England.
Beneath the palms at the St. Kilda Plaza
on Friday night, sweet girl graduates and
their boy friends whirled at the Commem.
ball, in which about a thousand took part.
The feminine M.A.’s and D.Sc.’s of 1930
sport dresses as bright as their intellects,
and up-to-the-minute finery. Skirts spread
in flounces or dipped their hems in the
undulating mode of the season, and some of
the bodices had a back-scoop to the waistline.
Green was very popular, with white running
it close. Ruby Powell, who collected a sheep-
skin next day, shared the hon. sec. duties with
W. B. Griffiths. Her green frock shone with
tracery of gold. Marjorie Lamble, in a gown
of delphinium blue, was the one lady member
of the organising committee. Among the
official guests were medical knight James
Barrett (chairman of the Commencement
Committee), his lady, in figured white, black
and gold georgette, top-dressed with black
ninon, and their daughter, Mrs. Henry
Marks, from Suva*; Profs. Agar and Copland
with their respective spouses; and the
George Maymans. The Chancellor of the
Uni. and some of the members of the
professorial staff attended a reception to
explorer Douglas Mawson, and came on
afterwards. Smart dressers of the younger
set were Beth Tliwaites, a blonde, in apple-
green satin; Aotea Campbell, just back from
Canada, wearing an American confection of
the palest mauve satin; Betty Bedggood, in
taffeta scattered with bunches of orange and
yellow blossoms; Nancy Dean, in white
chiffon and fur; Helen Stuckey, in cornflower-
blue georgette, and Yvonne Cohen, who ex-
hibited some alluring embroidery on her corn-
colored taffeta gown. A maid who wore black
with a large design in futurist roses, had
enough train to serve as a toga.
The Commem. procession, as a procession,
is almost a thing of the past. The under-
grads. made no attempt at military formation
on Saturday morning. For about an hour
Collins-street between Elizabeth and Swan-
ston Streets was a playground for youths
got up as gollywogs, negroes and perfect
ladies, who trundled hoops and indulged "in
scuffles amid the traffic. The dental students
assumed the togas of ancient Romans, with
a chariot and slaves, and there were lorries
manned by motley crew’s bearing placards
referring to prohibition and other topical
subjects. An aeroplane was another exhibit,
but the show was a poor one.
The graduation ceremony of Saturday
afternoon was more brilliant than usual,
being attended by the State Governor and
his lady. His Ex., who tailed the profes-
sorial procession, following the Chancellor into
Wilson Hall, made a sombre showing amid
the crimson gowns and hoods of many colors
worn by the dons a*nd graduates. Lord
Somers was there to unveil a brass tablet
commemorating the contribution of the late
Dr. E. H. Embley to the science of anaes-
thetics. Prof. Osborne gave the address on
Dr. Embley, who was a graduate of the
Uni. The Chancellor conferred 320 degrees
and sundry diplomas; Arts had a big repres-
sentation in which women predominated.
Four girls got the Bachelor of Commerce
degree, and two others the diploma. Another
maiden received a diploma of Public Health,
and seven girls and no men earned the right to
affix Mus. Bac. to their monnikers. The
garden-pr.trt'y after the shower of sheep-
skins was a picturesque function favored by
beautiful weather, at which the exponents of
intellectual culture sported attire as gay_ as
galahs. The womenfolk, to give them a fa*ir
field, as it were, chose clothing of neutral or
sombre tones that served as a mere background.
Chancellor MacFarland and James Barrett
extended greeting hands, and tea was spread
in the clubhouse. Lady Somers wore. a
black/ ensemble, collared and cuffed with
Persian lamb, and a baku straw hat. Prof.
Scott’s wife, who ciceroned her Ex., wore
golden-brown velvet, furs and a mushroom-
pink satin hat. Others in the throng were
the Barrett lady, Mrs. Harry Emmerton, who
wore a marvellous wrap of sable; Dr. and
Mrs. Ellery, the Masson lady, the H. I.
Cohens, whose daughter Yvonne was a
graduate, taking honors with her B.A.
degree; and Mr. and Mrs. W. Merry, whose
son John garnished his Mastership of Arts
with a diploma of Education.
There was nothing chilly about the Vic-
toria Leaguers’ reception to the Antarctic
explorers at the Windsor on F'riday night,
when Douglas Mawson, Captain J. K. Davis,
and other members of the Discovery’s com-
plement were entertained. The Mitchell lady
and Mrs. James Alston were hostesses. The
leader of the expedition, who left his sturdy
little craft in Adelaide, came across by train,
bringing his lady with him. She attended
the welcome wearing black lace with a
dash of gold, and a white feather fan. Mrs.
Stanley Addison handed her a posy trailing
red, white and blue ribbons. There was
hand-shaking and speechifying, among the
speakers being explorer-soldier-scientist Edg-
worth’ David, who said he was proud to
claim Mawson as one of . his students.
Amongst those who took part in the welcome
were the Lud Mayor and Mrs. Luxton,
Rear-Admiral Kerr and his wife, Commodore
and Mrs. G. D. Williams, the G. Delprats
and Air-Commodore and Mrs. Williams.
The establishment of the first section of
the Presbyterian Intermediate Hospital, esti-
mated-to cost £60,000 —the complete institu-
tion will cost £150,000 —was the raison d’etre
of a well organised and generously pat-
ronised fair at the Town Hall. An anony-
mous donor promised to give a £-for-£ sub-
sidy on the takings up to £2OOO, so stall-
holders had a big incentive to get in every
cent posible. Pot plants, seeds, bulbs and
flowers were for sale, and made a show in
themselves. Other stalls were brightly dolled
up and well stocked, and workers in charge
of refreshments put on luncheons and high
teas to increase the takings. Mayoress Lux-
ton set the hive of industry buzzing and was
given a posy. Opportunity was taken at the
same time to bestow on Moderator-elect
Donald Cameron a gift of lace for his robe
of office—a replica of some Indian lace
sriven to M"’" r Duchess of York,
when attending a Durbar.
Gertrude
Hea 1 y, pic-
tured here by
a Lafayette
camera, is one
of our clever-
est exponents
of the violin.
She studied
with Marshall
Hall at the
A 1 b e rt-street
Con., where she
now teaches.
She is billed
for a recital at
the Assembly
Hall on the
10th. Just be-
fore the war
Miss Healy
was a pupil of
Albert Sam-
mons in Eng-
land and she
also had some lessons in Berlin. Ballarat,
birthplace of so many talented musicians, is
her home town.
For a few hours at the mid-week the
Town Hall was filled with roses, the occasion
being the autumn show of the National Rose
Society. In spite of a season that wasn’t
entirely favorable, rosarians were able to
muster up a magnificent collection of blooms.
Honors went to a rich pink, Dame Edith
Helen, grown by S. E. Fredericks, of Hamp-
ton, who also showed some Golden Emblems
that lived up to their title. Two nurserymen
bedecked the whole front of the stage with
a bank of roses of every shade from white
to near-purple. The colorful mass was
arrayed in baskets and mingled with autumn
foliage and light greenery. Alister Clark’s
non-competitive entry included groupings of
his favorite pink, Sunny South. The
acting-president, in a preliminary word,
recited the names of Mr. Clark’s new seedling
roses. One, a captivating yellow, was called
Lady Somers; a dark red was named
Dorothy Mollison; and an apricot-tinted
bloom just matured was dubbed Mrs. Hugh
Dettman. Mr. Clark provides prizes for
rose-growers from sales of his seedlings, and
the fund has now banked up to £4OO. These
roses will be on the market in June. The
Lud Mayor launched the show, one of the
best yet held. At the end all entries were
sold to help the Homoeopathic Hospital, the
friends of which provided afternoon tea.
Among the unusual eating-houses of
Melbourne is one in which a young and
particularly nice-looking damsel tells your
fortune from the tea leaves in your cup,
what time you munch your pie and roll. The
other day a short, stout, fair man with a
small moustache and prominent teeth came
in and submitted to the casting of his horo-
scope. Amongst other things the clairvoyant
lady found that the stranger was a man of
very definite opinions who was, however, apt
to change them when he came in contact with
those of others. This chance shot raised a
loud laugh from the friends who accompanied
him. He was Tunnecliffe, Chief Sec. of the
Hogan Government, and one of his jobs,
incidentally, is to put down witchcraft,
crystal-gazing and fortune-telling.
Looking out of this window is Herbert
Rose, who, judging from the large number
of red seals
that decorated
the pictures in
his recent
show, is be-
coming a very
popular
painter. He
intends to voy-
age to the Old
World in the
near future
and will ran-
sa c k Spain,
France and
Corsica for
picturesque
corners. After
getting a
grounding in
art at the
National Gal-
lery he became
infected by his
brother’s en-
thusiasm for landscape photography and
between them they were responsible for a
very fine series of scenic views, which are
still on sale all over Australia in postcard
form. It wasn’t a bad preparation for a
career as a painter, as the artist has proved.
The Uni. Dramatic Club’s contribution to
the annual jollification was two performances
of “The Romantic Young Lady,” a pretty
little comedy by Martinez Sierra, which
deals with the love affairs of a Spanish
senorita and a writer of romantic novels.
Nell Taylor made a charming; heroine, and
showed nice taste in her choice of frocks.
She looked attractive in a lengthy gown
of coral-pink taffeta, and equally so in a
white moire with fluffy frills down the front
panel. Eileen Maley gave an effective pic-
ture of Dona Barbarita, a subtle old lady
who had outlived three husbands; and Maria
Pepa, confidential maid, was well portrayed
by Phyllis Clarke. Kathleen Adamson and
Dorothy Morris completed the feminine cast,
and R. D. B. Mitchell was the novelist.
Irene Webb produced the piece, which was
well staged, and Basil Farrell conducted an
orchestra of many instrumentalists.
A parade of winter-wear staged by a
Bourke-street firm at the Victoria during the
week had good luck with the weather, _ which
was positively polar. Pageants of this sort,
are to be a weekly affair at the reorganised
Little Collins-street eatery, and should help
to make it popular. At the initial man-
nequin-revue, the human clothes-dummies
headed by Jessica Ilareourt glided along the
platform in time to the strains of a string
orchestra, whose efforts were supplemented by
a singer, Alexander Brown. The invited
crowd, which numbered about 200, made the
best of the scant rays of sunshine that
streamed through mullioned windows, and
treated the tea and cakes m friendly fashion.
Mrs Stanley Iveast, formerly well-known m
social circle here, has charge of this new
departure of the Victoria. Among th.e
exhibited finery was a very attractive knitted
wool ensemble of fawn and brown check,
fashioned with a separate cape. The eiui-
ing gowns leaned to the Empire period, with
gh waists and skirts that fell m fluted
points about the ankles. An old material
revived was navy-blue taffeta, shown in a
frock with fancy spots. A navy-blue iepP
gown featured a charming trimming—
and cuffs of white crepe de Chine with
embroidery in black, jade and crystal beaus.
St. Vincent’s Hospital radium fund
steadily mounting. Last week the eftorts
the combined auxiliaries plus the aic , V
management of the Hotel Australia a .
another £2OO by means of a cabaret show
the fashionable pub. The State Theatre
ballet, several theatricals, who came aixei
their respective shows, and some leading
amateurs provided the entertainment,
there were stalls, where, among other tiling,
dressed poultry was sold. About <OO attende
the affair, for which Mrs. J. J. Ualy
was unable to be present) and Mrs. y* t>
Mackey were lion. secs., and Mrs. J.-
Casey checked the returns.
Wives of military officers formerly asso-
ciated with General Chauvel, who has
to leave his job as Chief of the General &>tait,
invited the Chauvel lady to tea at 4U
Murphy-street, South Yarra. The party a
the new social rendezvous, organised by is.
W. A. Coxen, was a little, tribute to the
friendliness of the O.C.’s wife towards the
spouses of his brother officers. The guest
hugged a great sheaf of autumn .blossoms
against her white silk coat and skirt, worn
with a black hat. .
A knot-tying of last week was that i
Iris Gwendoline, daughter of the D. Col-
hursts, of Toorak, and Roy Schilling, who
hails from Bendigo. With two ’maids wear-
ing taffeta in tints of pink and green and a
couple of trainbearers, the bride trailed
white ninon and tulle up the aisle ot-fet.
John’s. The after-reception was at JNo. O.
Some of the younger set whose parents
own homes at Macedon set themselves to
work to replenish the coffers of the Country
Women’s Association. They put on a
“Frolics and Follies Revue” m the new hall
of the Mountain resort. Reg Cattlin engi-
neered the production, and among the pei-
formers were the Chris Cowpers’ daughters
Beryl and Maisie, Nancy Syme, Natalie
Wood, Roma Smith and Barbara Bryans.
Dame Margaret Greville, remembered here
for her reported caustic comments on local
polish, entertained the Stanley Bruces at a
decorative dinner in her Charles-street house.
The hostess mentioned in her invites that
the event was “to renew my cherished Aus-
tralian associations.” Evidently those cher-
ished associations were strictly limited. In
the list of guests there were dukes, mar-
quises, earls and viscounts, but the ex-
Priminister and his missus were the only
imports from the land of the kangaroo.
Mrs. Russell Clarke gave a tea-party at
her residence to members of the South Yarra
auxiliary of Melbourne Hospital and other
likely helpers to discuss ways and means of
putting some money in the institution’s
treasure-chest. A bridge party, garnished
with sales, was decided upon. Dr. Isabel
Younger Ross and Mrs. Ivonrad Hiller volun-
teered to provide and sell woollen garments
for infants, and the Ernest Poolmans
proffered their home in Domain-road as the
scene of the party. The organising com-
mittee includes Mrs. Russell Clarke, presi-
dent ; Dorothy Mollison, hon. sec.; and Linda
Inglis, hon. treas.
The E.S.U. is now perched in quarters
above the Regent Theatre in iCollins-street.
The rooms have the advantage of being more
central and larger than the union’s old
home, and by great good lu,ck the autumn-
flowered curtains and other furnishings ht
quite nicely into their new surroundings.
There was a house-warming one evening last
week, when the president, Prof. W. A.
Osborne, talked of his recent trip to ’Murca,
which included a sojourn in Hollywood.
Mayor Lucini of Fitzroy, distressed
about the many evidences of poverty in his
municipality, is founding a permanent fund
to supply food and other necessities to the
needy. He is the first of the suburban
mayors to make such an effort. At a meet-
ing held the other day lie enlisted the co-
operation of various societies and. sporting
bodies, and the police, proffered assistance in
the matter of organising entertainments.
Songbird Gladys MacDowell is spreading
her wings for a year’s European travel, leav-
ing by the Esperance Bay on the 23rd. Her
intention is to join Ada Freeman for a while
and later to study under one of the great
teachers of singing.
Journeying to Europe by the Narkunda
this week are Mr. and Mrs. J. Ross Soden.
She is best known in this city as Dr. Mar-
garet Robertson, a member of the honorary
staff of Queen Victoria Hospital. Dr. Mar-
garet McLorinan, the head of the hospital,
arranged a farewell afternoon-brew for Dr.
Robertson at the Lyceum Club. There was a
handful of American beauty roses for the
departing medico, and they made a lovely
splash of color against her magpie raiment.
Wearing a floral-patterned georgette gown, a
bit of ermine and a black hat, the hostess gave
greeting to many guests, among them Mrs.
W. M. Robins, Mrs. J. Sutherland, secretary
of the hospital committee, and a whole raft
of doctors.
Next Week.—Special Anzac Number of
“The Bulletin.” Read “The Gateway.”
Read the Special Verse. See the Special
Illustrations. Sixpence as Usual.


THE GOSSARD LINE of BEAUTY
[ I I M - "
■
i
H
JT - :
T/
m
i ■■
■pin
nasagHi
■
■ i
II 11111118
i ■
mm if ' mmm
- •
m
■ a
, m
m
ns
BBBIBIIiIi
: 1
sill
■1 :
mem mm:,
:
i H 1
IhSBH
.
llli
MM
ram
US
:
■
mm
m H
mm
P -1*
■llilißßili
■iililli
111 .
~- - m
i ? i
I
WM
A lightly boned hook-around that gives adequate support,
shows the popular raised waistline. Made of brocade and
hand-loomed elastic, it is Model 1010.
As You Stand Before Your
Mirror Do You Know
What Figure-Questions
to Ask Yourself?
There are only three. They represent the supreme
test of a correctly fitting foundation —the test which
Gossard foundations unfailingly meet in all their
various designs.
Is your bustline supported to its natural contours,
so that you have the bouyant, well-curved look of
youth? Does your figure line curve in at the waist,
showing no ripple or bulge, and slope gently out to
meet the hipline? Through the back and front —over
the hips—is there a tracing of natural contours, re-
strained just enough to bring a firm line, and a com-
fortable feeling of support? These are the questions
which permit you to make a test of your figure and
your foundation as you stand before your own mirror.
No matter what style of corset you prefer, remember there
is Gossard to perfectly answer this figure test for you.
THE CANADIAN H. W. GOSSARD CO., Limited
114-120 Castlereagh Street .. Sydney, N. S. W.
MADE WITHIN THE empire
_ _ K-AUST 9D
rHERMOs
RECISTEHED trade mark
BRITISH
VAC tj JLf M
FLASK,,,,
When you are buying a
vacuum flask or jug-look firs t
for the name—THERMOS
—your guarantee that it is
British .. . that it is a pioneer
product... that it has a lining
of Stronglas, the extra strong
glass that no ordinary bumps
or knocks will break! That’s
the flask you need—for hard
long, efficient wear. Ask
for—and get—THERMOS.
~ ' I:
YOUR HORROR 5
Constipation , partial or complete,
is fatal to your looks
JH
/
V:
1
Nature abhors a system that is not daily and completely
cleansed of its waste poisons, and she intends you to abhor
it too. Dull eyes, a muddy skin, excessive perspiration, a
coated tongue, are her warnings that your blood is absorb-
ing dangerous toxins.
Watch for danger signals in yourself. If you find them
though you may not be conscious of being constipated in
the ordinary sense, you are suffering from incomplete
elimination. You need Eno’s "Fruit Salt”. Aglass ofEno
taken first thing every morning gently dismisses the waste
matter from your body before it has had time to stagnate.
€>no may be given to children with perfect safety.
MM
mun SAIT
it
words Gno and nC &riiit Salt” are registered trade marks.
Sales d/lgcnts: THE BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE & CO. LTD.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


e
CHINA
Perpetual charm
strength and quality of
English Bone China maintain
its lustre after long use, and it
withstands handling that would
be fatal to less noble ware. Thus
the lovely Shelley China does not
perish or deteriorate: rather, it
develops added charm and dis-
tinction with the passing of the
years. Slow, careful Shelley
craftsmanship is not used in
vain. Look at the ware !
Ask to see the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
* China
Nursery Ware
L/ Lucie Attwell
{-Hilda Cowham
Dome stic Ware
Jelly Moulds
IN CASE OF ANY DIFFICULTY IN OBTAINING
WRITE TO
Amusements,
CYDNEV’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S
THE BELLE OF NEW YORK.
CRITERION: JOURNEY’S END.
ROYAL: THE HAWK.
|OWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Direction E. J. Gravestock, Ltd.
SATURDAY, APRIL 26, at 8.
Also APRIL 29, MAY 1, 3 and C.
MATINEE, THURSDAY, MAY 8.
BACKHAUS,
WORLD’S GREATEST PIANIST.
“Fortunate indeed is the pianist who can fill
Queen’s Hall as Mr. Wilhelm Baekhaus filled it last
night. The reason for his abiding popularity is not
far to seek, for even in these days of super-pianism
he is pre-eminent.” —London “Daily Telegraph
February 26, 1929.
Plans open ,at Nicholsons, 416-418 George Street,
TUESDAY, APRIL 22. Reserved seats, 12/3 and
8/9. Unreserved seats, 5/9 and 3/5, including taxes.
TOWN HALL, MELBOURNE,
COMMENCING SATURDAY, MAY 24.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
(EXTENDED SEASON)
NEW COMEDY THEATRE:
NELLIE STEWART in
ROMANCE.
Commencing Easter Saturday.
IJOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
4 4 MELBOURNE.
All Talkie Operetta,
MARRIED IN HOLLYWOOD,
With JOHN GARRICK (REGINALD DANDY) and
NORMA TERRIS.
ALSO
THE FALL OF EVE,
Ford Sterling’s First Talkie.
(Both Pictures Conditional.)
y
r\
Keep Poison Ouf Of
CUTS
A cut or sore place neglected may
within a few hours set up serious in-
flammation or blood-poisoning.
Keep Zam-Buk always handy.
This reliable antiseptic healer prom-
ptly applied to any flesh wound or
sore, prevents dangerous infection
from dirt and bad germs. Zam-Buk
heals without the least smarting or
irritation, thoroughly disinfects the
tissues and quickly grows new skin.
The secret of Zam-Buk’s amazing
power is in its refinement and herbal
origin and its freedom from animal
fats. Zam-Buk is ‘a surgery in a
two-inch box’. It is unequalled for
cuts, burns, scalds, chapped hands,
chilblains, eczema, poisoned wounds,
ulcers, bad legs, piles, etc.
All chemists sell Zam-Buk at 1/6 & 3/6 box.
sJam-Buk Medicinal Soap II- a tablet.
Amusements. _
THEATRE,™ MELBOURNE.
WHITE & EDGLEY’S NEW MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
in
LOVE LIES.
Missing Friends.
D E M. KERRISON, deceased. Will any
, *'■ person knowing the whereabouts of
ERNEST WINZENBERG, formerly of
Hobart, in Tasmania-, or his son NORMAN,
communicate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Hobart?
W/OODMASON. —If James Matthew Wood-
” mason, late of Malvern and brother of
the late Walter Woodmason, w T ill communi-
cate with The Equity Trustees Company,
85 Queen Street, Melbourne, he will hear
something to liis advantage.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1242 of 1928.
BETWEEN MABEL MARION JOHNSON Petitioner
And ERNEST WILLIAM JOHNSON Respondent.
TO ERNEST WILLIAM JOHNSON late of Bellbird
near Cessnock in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Mabel Marion Johnson
has commenced a suit against you the said Ernest
William Johnson in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the ground
of your desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards. AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the third day of July One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the Petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
Solicitors or their Sydney Agents free of charge.
DATED this Seventh day of April One thousand
nine hundred and thirty.
For the Registrar,
I). C. DEAN,
Acting Chief Clerk in Divorce.
W. J. Enright and Skilton, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 467 High Street, West Maitland. Whose
agents are: Taylor and Kearney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
/ 0 05*4
Qt%e journeys end,
Whether travelling by boat, train or car, if you have
booked in at “Scott’s” there is always the satisfaction
of knowing that, at the journey’s end, real comfort
awaits you and efficient service is at your command.
For over 60 years “ Scott's ” has been
recognised as Melbourne’s foremost
residential hotel.
Bed and Breakfast or Inclusive Tariff
Scott's Hotel
Collins St., Melbourne 5 . 49
UMk
T&leqrams
£ Cables -
WSSmSSMSu I
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland's
Distinguished Social Life!
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The Polo Club made a huge success of the
first big ball of the season. Lady Campion’s
gown was black, with a sprinkling of dew-
drops. Mrs. Kerr-Pearse wore gold lame
shot with rose, her daughter was in apple-
green, and Nizza Sarell in periwinkle-blue.
Black had an innings in Kathleen Piesse’s
taffetas, ornamental with lattice-work about
the bodice, in Mrs. Joe Charles’s chenille, in
Mrs. Carcary’s georgettes and in Mrs. Bren-
don Garner’s pussy-willow with its monster
hip bow lined with jade. Mrs. Geoff
Mclntyre looked like a mermaid in swathed
silver lame; chiffons, mostly patterned with
mignonette greens, swished about Marjorie
Hearman’s ankles; tomato georgettes clad
Edna Downing; Peggy Wood’s gown was
like a peach blossom and a glow of gold
spangles: sister Betty swirled pink tulle;
Moosie Butcher wore green, and her deb.
sister Peggy scarlet ninon. Other debs, were
Sheila Clement, in blue, and Barbara Nairn,
in ankle-length white moire. Yvonne Nairn
wore black moire with deep frills; Mollie
Mahood chose shades of orchid; Judy Janies
was in buttercup; and Gwenyth Ambrose’s
plumbago blues were sprinkled with flower
'broideries. The violet-blue taffetas of
Cecilia Brennan’s frock matched her eyes;
Lois Bateman was in lilac, Marjorie Beres-
ford in flowered taffetas, and Margaret
Officer in convolvulus blue.
At the Polo Association’s annual dinner,
following on the Gymkhana, a fine array of
trophies, dominated by the Charles, Gooch
and Burges cups, was on view in the official
enclosure. Lady Campion, wearing golden-
brown tonings in hat and satin coat, made
the presentations.
Their Exes’
second son,
Wilfred, is
slipping into
double harness
on the 23rd in
St. Ma r y’s
Church, Colin-
street. P i c-
tured alongside
by a Bardwell
Clarke lens is
the girl of his
choice, Miss
Nizza Sarell.
After the
honeymoon has
shed its radi-
ance in the
Cold Country
the couple will
return to start
housekeep i n g
in Perth.
There were thrills in plenty in the
Assembly Hall during the Society of Con-
cert Artists’ evening. The first play provided
a murder, in the second a detective iz appa-
rently strangled by a spook, and in the third
a man dies of old age. Harold Malcolm and
Ivan Campbell, the principals of “In the
Library,” acquitted themselves with credit,
and George Day made an effective burglar.
In the second act of “Spooks” producer Ned
Taylor’s interpretation of the stuttering
Douglas was as entertaining as any of these
horrible distortions can be, and Joan Good
made an attractive heroine. In “Waterloo,”
the part of the old guardsman provided plenty
of scope for Ernest Cuthbertson’s acting.
There is no shadow of financial depression
about the poster show in the Town Hall.
On the walls are lush cattle, knee-deep in
a blue lagoon, fat; lazy sheep on a green hill,
and vines heavy with clusters of purple
grapes; queer purple fish, from the brush
of Charles Paine, swim in a bubbling green
sea; A. E. Cox depicts coffee-colored coolies
gathering paddy; Ba Nyau has some digni-
fied elephants, and A. A. Moore a fairyland
of English flowers. Charles Pears con-
tributes a number of British foreign ports
basking between blue sea and skies. On a
fascinating colored map by MacDonald Gill
quaint old ships mark the trade routes of
the world through the centuries. It’s a dis-
play well worth seeing, apart from being
propaganda for Empire Shopping Week.
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Brisbane’s new City Hall was opened with
much pomp and ceremony. The 49th Bat-
talion furnished a guard of honor, in charge
of Captain Sutch. The Lud Mayor, in full
fig, met the vice-regals at the main door.
There were guests from all over Australia.
Among them one visitor who deserves a
line was James Dart, aged 93, who saw Bris-
bane’s first Town Hall opened 65 years ago.
Three thousand people were seated in the
ivory and white concert hall, and the scene
was bright with the scarlet robes of church-
men and the military uniforms. There was
a fanfare of trumpets after the Governor’s
speech, but the trumpeters would have looked
even more picturesque had not the Beef-
eaters’ costumes, ordered specially from the
south for them, gone astray en route. Three
hundred special guests were entertained to
tea in the basement. Archie Day was at
the organ for the singing of “The Old Hun-
dredth,” in which the crowd joined lustily.
Harry Borradale recited Mabel Forrest’s Ode
to the City Hall, specially written for the
occasion.
It is a far cry to Governor Bowen’s day,
when a benevolent Administration granted
the sum of £lOO to house the city fathers of
the period. In those times the site of the
present palatial Guild Hall was a pool of
water round which the blacks camped.
Daphne Mayo, the sculptress, is hard at
work on the tympanum of the present
building; all her figures are taken from live
models, and she has accustomed herself to
work on dizzy heights. In the evening there
was an organ recital, at which the Governor
and Lady Goodwin were present. The tower
showed colored lights on the opening night
and throughout the week’s festivities.
Sir Dudley and Lady de Chair, their son
and daughter, are at present the guests of
the Bells at Coochin Coochin station,
Boonah. They are coming to stay with Sir
John and Lady Goodwin at Government
House before catching their boat for Java
next week.
Horace Grahame Dickson, son of the
Grahame Dicksons, of Ilighgate Hill, and
grandson of the late James Dickson, took
Lyndall Victoria Neill to wife in Scots’
Church, Clayfield. The bride was in ivory
satin and a veil of Spanish lace, and car-
ried a sheaf of arum-lilies. Elsie Parker
and Maisie Dickson ’maided in apple-green
mariette, and green hats with touches of
coral pink. The feasting was at Atcherley,
and the ’moon rises at Noosa Heads.
Alice Jaques, of Silver Hills station,
announces her wedding in June to Leslie
Charles, only son of the C. S. Pedlers, of
Sydney.
_ There were few better known in musical
circles than Mrs. James Cowan, who died
at Upper Paddington a fortnight ago. She
was a member of the Brisbane Musical Union
and took a prominent part in church work.
Her husband is on the staff of the Brisbane
Grammar School.
The Uni. Women’s Tennis Club is sending
representatives to Hobart for the matches
in May, and a dance to help along the
expenses fund was given in the main hall
at the University, decorated with primrose
and gold streamers. Freda Bage was amongst
the throng.
Phyllis Cottell dressed up her home, Nyalita,
with yellow dahlias and. bowls of pink
antignon for her party to bride-elect Esmee
Smith. For Edith Milner a pre-wedding tea
was arranged at Atcherley by Betty Milner
amid vases of autumn-hued dahlias.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Considering the depression, neither Allan
Wilkie nor the amateur producers of “Merrie
England” have any reason to complain of
poor houses. Shakspeare is reckoned the best
possible fare for the young, and the Theatre
Royal has been crowded with school child-
ren, making the most of a change every night.
“Merrie England” demonstrated that good
voices and shapely legs don’t always go
together, but, of course, with an opera class
the voice has to be the first consideration.
The gift tea organised by the Mothers and
Babies’ Health Association met with a grati-
fying response at the Wright-street depot,
both in babies’ clothes and cash. The
Mayoress and Mrs. Napier Birks were among
the speakers.
Deb. dances look like being a feature of
the season. Mrs. R. Crompton, of Burnside,
starts the ball rolling on April 30 with a
dance for Billie White, Mrs. R. Burns Cum-
ing comes next with an at-home on May 2
at which the eight debs, will include her
own daughter, and Mesdames Marshall and
Verco will enter the ranks of hostesses very
shortly.
The South Australian Society of Arts’
autumn exhibition was opened by Alec Mel-
rose on Thursday afternoon. Still-life studies
carried off all the prizes, Hans Heysen’s
daughter Nora taking the first with a study
of petunias. Among all the wealth of flowers
none were so beautiful as the bowls of roses
by George Whinnen. Other artists exhibited
large studies of Iceland poppies _ and del-
phiniums. John Goodchild’s etchings were
as admirable as ever. Despite the special
prize offered by Mr. Melrose, figure-painting
had no devotees.
Mrs. Reginald Walker set a new fashion
at her residence in Kensington Gardens the
other day. It took the form of a cafeteria
luncheon, the guests proceeding in single file
through the servery between each course and
helping themselves.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Our harbor looks bare without the war-
ships, and it is possible that there are some
corresponding voids in feminine hearts. The
big fruit-ships at the wharves will soon be
off. too, and we shall settle down to the
quiet of winter.
His Ex. and Margaret O’Grady, along with
a big crowd of members and guests, sat
entranced at the Royal Society’s rooms when
Admiral Evans lectured on Scott’s last
voyage to the Antarctic. Familiar as the
story is, new life was given to every incident
by the personality of the narrator as he
unfolded his first-hand experiences. Pontiug’s
splendid photographs illustrated the address.
After the lecture the throng mounted to
the picture gallery above stairs for refresh-
ments and to bid a regretful good-bye to the
genial sailor-explorer, who has made many
warm friends in the Speck.
The Doncaster meeting of the T.R.C. was
held in perfect weather. There was some
good racing, the surroundings were a delight
to the eye and the Canberra’s band dis-
coursed an admirable programme of popular
waltzes and operatic airs. Chairman Thos.
Lyons and his wife tea-ed a big crowd in the
pavilion, helped by Mrs. Sam Cox and
daughter Sybil. A few belated swallows in
the shape of summer visitors were present,
and a good many of the naval officers and
their wives bade their last farewells to
island friends.
Professor Morris Miller has been appointed
vice-president of the first International Con-
gress on Mental Hygiene, which will be
opened by President Hoover at Washington
on May 5. Unfortunately the professor is
very doubtful whether we will be able to get
away for the trip,
Mrs. Fenn-Smith and daughter Esther are
bidding good-bye to Hobart and going to
make their home with Anthony Fenn-Smith,
who, after some years on mainland stations,
has bought a property at Macquarie Plains.
Hobart social circles will miss both mother
and daughter.


After your shampoo
m
a touch of Rowland’s
Macassar Oil will re-
place the natural oil
which the shampoo re-
moved. The oil is very
'necessary, for it pre-
vents thin, falling hair
and gives a perfect
healthy gloss. Comb
the oil well into the
hair.
«s
From all Chem-
ists, Stores and
Hairdressers.
Red for dark
hair; golden for
fair or grey hair.
JRWantfs
Maca§§ar©tl
112 Guilford Street, London, W. 0.1.,
ENGLAND,
ď
ANNOUNCING P. & C. ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS ASSURANCE
For nine years the co-operative
policy of the P. and C. has won
the goodwill of the Man on the
Land throughout the length and
breadth of Australia.
The Company now announces
accident and sickness assurance
on the same co-operative basis.
The liberal nature of these
policies and the special benefits
they provide will make an imme-
diate appeal to all who wish to
protect their incomes and pro-
vide for additional expenses
incurred during periods of dis-
ablement.
Send for literature and full
particulars to
PRODUCERS CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OJ AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly; M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
Agency Co., Ltd.
You’ll Need One Soon!
THE
“STANLEY”
Hot Water Bottle
Made of aluminium, with
screw top and rubber
washer —it will not leak.
Far superior to the ordi-
nary rubber variety, as it
retains the beat for a long
time. Flat and round in
shape. Supplied with
blue flannel jacket.
each.
Price,
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
it ran out with a jerk. Something big!
The line was like fire in his fingers when
he tried to hold it, and with one hand lie
kept it checked while with the other he
hauled furiously at the anchor.
“Oho, my beauty!” he called out in
excitement. “You can drag me about awhile
if you feel that way. You’ll get tired before
I do.”
Plumping the dripping anchor in the
bows, he took a firm grip of the line and
crouched in the bottom of the boat, his
'body alert as a bird-hunting cat’s, his eyes
shining darkly in his swarthy face. There
was a faint, musical ripple at the bows as
they got under way, a fainter swish from
where the heavy line cut the water. The
hooked fish was moving round in circles,
halting now and then as if to gather
strength, making out to sea with sudden
bursts of energy. It was not a shark, Lew
told himself; too lively and full of fight!
A ray, perhaps, or a giant groper! That
meant a long battle, for the line was old
and frayed.
But he was too absorbed in the struggle
to take any count of time. Round and
round he moved in the wake of the hidden
fish, hauling on the line when its strength
flagged, letting it run through his fingers
when there was a burst of energy from
below, dipping each hand by turns in the
water to take out the fire. The sun, all its
warmth gone, was resting on the rim of the
purplish black mountains; Andy Williams
had climbed the stairs of the lighthouse
and was standing on the platform looking
out to sea; the youngsters on their ponies
had left. the sands and were riding home
through tracks among the tea-tree. Still,
though growing feebler, the fish fought.
Twice it seemed to have wedged itself in
some crevice in the reef, and Lew had to
stand up in the boat and heave with all his
strength. It came up the second time a
dead weight, like an anchor covered with
seaweed, and he could see its bulky form
just below the darkening surface of the
water —huge mouth, greenish grey back,
glazing eyes. A groper, and a pretty big
one! But there was not much fight in it
now, and drawing near to it he leant over
and stuck the gaff deftly through its gills.
The boat rocked and swayed as he hauled
it aboard.
“No herring about that!” he muttered in
satisfaction. “A hundred and fifty, if it’s
an ounce! Something to make young
Hughie open his eyes.”
Taking up the sculls he sent the dinghy
moving swiftly towards the bar, the last
rays of sunlight touching his black, curly
hair, his muscular arms, his coppery brown
torso that was only partly covered by the
torn singlet. Inside the bar there was a
stretch of smooth water, protected from the
open seas by the low, timbered hummocks
of Rathbone Island that curved in at one
end toward the mainland. The greyish-
white sandbanks that had formed in this
passage were now being covered by the
making tide. Slowly the water lapped over
them, wetting the feet of the gulls, and
sending the armies of porcelain blue soldier-
crabs scuttling toward higher ground. Over
the whole landlocked stretch a perfect still-
ness brooded. Not a breath disturbed the
greeny-grey she-oaks above the broken
beach; the smoke from the fisherman’s cot-
tages went up in plumy spirals; the small,
black boats made home from the furthest
sandbanks as though with muffled oars.
Only from overhead came sound, a far,
clanking cry as the swans swept up the
Passage with outstretched necks and pointed
wings, veering inland towards the reedy
head of some tidal river.
Lew had crossed the bar and was plug-
ging steadily home when he saw a girl
with a bathing-suit in her hand come out of
the tea-tree three hundred yards away and
stand for awhile on a cleared patch, look-
ing down at the water. Her back was to
the light and he couldn’t see her fea-
tures, but the orange jumper reminded him
of Clem. Involuntarily he rested on his
oars. There had been no talk of the
McNairs coming down, as far as he knew,
and the sprawling white-and-red bungalow
had been closed for months. Hadn’t some-
one said old McNair was going to subdivide
the forty acres around it and sell the whole
show? It wasn’t often he used the place
now, and land was going up in value since
the new road had been opened for motor-
ing traffic!
The girl disappeared into the tea-tree
again without a sign, and he rowed on, feel-
ing that if it had been Clem she would have
recognised his boat and waved her hand.
But he didn’t think about her for long.
His mind was on the groper that was weigh-
ing down the bows, and he was wondering
whether he would be able to make a couple
of quid on it, clear. In a muffled way his
senses were repeating the rhythm of the
struggle. He was conscious of the line
running through his fingers, of the convul-
sive spurts of energy from below, of having
half his life in the fish he had hooked; and
as he pulled over the darkening water he
passed again through every moment of
that crowded half-hour.
CHAPTER 11.
The Family Home.
By the ricketty jetty, where a break-
water of loose stones had been built up to
fortify the crumbling banks, a boy of nearly
fifteen was bending over a half-finished
canoe, stretching the canvas carefully over
the light ribs and frowning slightly at a
mark of fraying on the surface. There was
an intent look on his freckled face, with its
small puckered eyes and wide mouth;
even his loose-hung body seemed to be
thinking about the job in hand. That was
the way with Hughie—what he was doing
at the moment was the one thing in the
world for him! Lew’s boat came up so
quietly that the boy didn’t notice it in
the dark till it was near the end of the
jetty, and then he sprang up.
“Hullo, Lew! Do any good out there?”
Lew shipped his oars and flung the
anchor out on the narrow strip of sand.
“Not too bad. Couple of cases.”
There was a deliberate casualness in his
voice, in spite of the groper lying in the
bows. Hughie caught a glimpse of it as
he came towards the boat, and his grey
eyes sparkled.
“Oh, I say; that’s no slouch of a fish,
Lew! Bigger ’n the one old Tom caught
last winter near the bar! Give you any
trouble?”
“Not much. I played him till he hadn’t
a kick left. Didn’t let him get his full
weight to work. How’s the canoe?”
“Coming along all right. I didn’t get
properly to work till this afternoon. Uncle
Tony wanted me to have a screw at the
engine of the boat again. I’ll have it
finished by the end of the week, though.”
He edged toward the canoe diffidently,
auxious to have Lew’s approval of what he
had done. It was almost the first time he
had had the chance of earning money off his
own bat, and he was flushed with the
importance of his job. Andy Williams had
seen him out on the passage in his first
canoe, and had wanted one just like it for
a nephew of his. The school-teacher had
been asking about one, too! Everyone
Anna.
seemed to be interested in canoes since he
had built that frail little shell of canvas
and three-ply, working from the diagrams
in a boys’ paper. He saw a vista of profit-
able work ahead of him.
“I mucked up the first one,” he admitted.
“Only had some rotten sailcloth from under
Uncle Tony’s house, and didn’t get it water-
tight. Now I’ve a chance of getting proper
stuff, though, it’ll be dead easy.”
“That’s so,” said Lew. “I can see you
making a pot of money, Hughie. Keeping
the whole crowd of us going, eh?”
He passed his hand over the taut canvas
and fingered a slight split in one of the
ribs, but his thoughts were on Hughie
rather than on the boat beneath his eyes.
How quick the boy was in picking up any-
thing when he got half a hint! And what
a wonderful offsider he would be in a year
or two, if only they let him alone! There
was nothing Hughie couldn’t do. He was
as handy with machinery as with a pair
of oars, and his mind was always working
at ideas for improving the place. No need
for him to go to a town school to get a
chance! He would make his own chances,
wherever he was.
But lurking beneath these sober reflec-
tions was a feeling that he would be lost
without Hughie, lonely as an old groper
in a backwater. The boy was a mate for
him, as Fred had never been; even when
Clem.
Hughie was quite a little fellow it had been
a pleasure to take him out for the day
because of his lively interest in things and
the happy talk that bubbled out of him.
Never a whine from Hughie, although his
little legs might be raw with blisters! For
the sun was not a good friend to Hughie.
The texture of his fairish skin wouldn’t
adapt itself to the strong rays, and even
one day out on the sandbanks with the nets
would leave him sore and smarting. Lew,
whose own skin was dark as mahogany, and
whose brown eyes kept wide open in the
fiercest light, was troubled by this, for it
gave point to his mother’s contention that
Hughie wasn’t meant for a fisherman. Not
meant for any kind of open-air life, really!
“Though God knows why she should want
him to spend his days on a stool adding up
figures,” he thought. “A lovely prospect,
that, for a boy like Hughie!”
He went back to the boat to put the fish
away. The cottage, with its sheds and boat-
house, was not twenty yards from the
water, and a white path covered with sand
and broken coral led from the back door
to the jetty. Drying nets were spread across
the grass on either side, and over the yard
hovered a smell of fish, wet tar and stale
mullet-weed. A light was burning in the
kitchen, and a small girl stood at the open
door.
“Lew home yet?” she called out shrilly.
And at Hughie’s answer she came dancing
down the path, bursting to tell something
but eager to rouse speculation about it first.
This was Dot, the youngest of the family.
She stood poised with her bare feet on the
breakwater, hopped from one stone to
another in the dim light, called out ques-
tions to Lew, who was still occupied with
the fish. Some people had come down in
the car that morning; she had seen them
out of the school window, and he must
guess who they were! When he made a
couple of sham attempts and then dried up
she came skipping toward him and hung on
to his arm while he climbed the break-
water.
“Just one more guess, Lew. It’s someone
you know, dinkum. The man’s got a
grog-blossom nose like Corny Lait’s, but
he don’t live here.”
Lew chuckled.
“Umph, that’s a soda! Must be the old
doctor Look out, Dot, you’re pulling
me over. How many of them were there?”
“On’y Clem and her father. Clem reck-
ernised me through the window and waved
her hand. There was luggage all over the
footboard.”
Other details came out, gabbled and
inconsecutive. Clem had on an orangey-red
dress that put you in mind of Christmas
bells: old Kunkel said someone had bought
the place and they were coming to take
the furniture away: none of the other girls
had seen them. She dropped from his
shoulder as she heard her mother calling
her to lay the table, and Lew passed
through the kitchen door in her wake, a
smell of grilling steak and boiled cabbage
following him as he went to his room to
change his clothes. The old doctor down
again, he was thinking! Then it must have
been Clem he had seen on the little head-
land just inside the bar.
The house had the suggestion of a ship’s
interior about it, from the small bedrooms
with low windows and neat bunks to the
snug living-room that was nearly filled by
the big cedar table. Only a seaman-like
carefulness in stowing things away could
have made it tolerable for a large family.
Yet it was more than tolerable; it had a
cosy comfort, especially in winter. Nothing
was suffered to lie about, and hardly any-
thing served merely the one purpose. The
big ottoman that ran the full length of
the wall had different compartments that
held books, Lew’s gramophone records, the
household linen; cupboards were built into
the corners; wide shelves ran on either side
of the low window that looked out over
the water. The higher spaces of the walls
alone were left for decoration, and these
held different kinds of colored starfish,
native weapons, a huge double-sided saw
from some dead sea-criminal, glass-cases of
cowries and flowering coral. An enlarged
photograph of Lew’s father, who had been
drowned on the bar five years before, looked
down from above the mantelpiece—fair,
curling hair, sun-bleached eyes, and a loose,
humorous mouth that the thin beard did
not hide. Except for the unaccustomed coat,
that was Bob Callaway, as the people along
the Passage had known him. A lean, sea-
blistered scallywag of a fellow, moving lazily
about the beach in his singlet and rolled-up
pants, and keeping nothing to himself but
the joke that lurked somewhere in his
core! Like his brother, Tony, he had
been born on an island at the other end
of the Passage, and seemed as native to
the place as the inconspicuous tea-tree or
the mud-rooted mangroves. He knew every
twist of the salt-water creeks, every channel
where the incoming fish might pause to
feed, every crabhole in the banks, almost;
but a streak of cantankerousness in his
nature had kept him from ever earning
more than a bare living. In a good mullet
season, when every shooting of the nets
brought a full boat, he had been known to
roll a swag and set off for the ranges.
“Tired of the smell of fish,” he would
explain. “Only a cat could stand it so long
on end. I’m going for a walk-about —there’s
plenty doing up in the orchards now the
oranges are on.”
And he would come back in a couple of
months with nothing but a few soiled shirts
in his swag, and a heap of stories for the
children about the pine that was being
snaked out from the gorges by the bullock-
ies, and the way he had rattled down the
range with loads of fruit over roads where
the slightest stumble would mean a drop
of a thousand feet into the gum-trees
below.
An unsatisfactory man to live with, but
if Lew’s mother had found him so she had
never admitted it while he was alive! She
had enjoyed, like other people, his thin
good humor, his stories and his violin play-
ing, and had accepted his belief that life
could be a long picnic in the sun if people
didn’t worry too much about time or
money. There was always enough to eat
at the Passage, what with the fish and Uncle
Tony’s vegetables. As for clothes, it was
easy to get the little needed to cover them.
The world had few complexities for Anna
Callaway while the children were small, and
Tony’s wife was at hand to see her through
her next confinement.
But since Bob’s shark-torn body had been
found five miles up the beach and buried
among the sandhills, a definite change had
come over her. She had gradually reacted
against the careless Callaway ideas of life,
and plotted more ambitious careers for her
children. The Passage, where Bob and
Tony had been the chief figures among the
handful of drifting fishermen and oyster-
men, was no longer cut off from the world.
Along Sully’s Beach, three or four miles
(.Continued on next page.)


HOME for cure of ALCOHOLISM and DRUGS
(BOTH SEXES)
Established 30 years. Highly recommended. Under medical supervision. Fully qualified matron
and staff. Effective and safe.
THE CENTRAL MISSION INSTITUTION,
Moreland Hall, Jessie Street, Moreland, Melbourne.
Telephone: Brunswick 744. .
m
‘ff U
K
W
w.
w
m
.. a
*S?
BvoW«
m
r-jf
1.
i# #1 5 \ i
fk A \
* V. a
0
without Benedictinefti
if Y
BOH
Benedictine adds a delightful
piquancy to every cocktail, and
gives it, in addition, a pleasing
bouquet. The modern hostess knows
that a dash of Benedictine in her
cocktails stamps them as something
different and distinctive. And when
she serves Benedictine as an after-
dinner liqueur she wins the further
appreciation of her guests.
Ben didline has been the World’s
Supreme Liqueur since 1510
r
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Learn to
DRAW
Anyone can learn to draw success-
fully, provided an aptitude for
study is shown and an earnest
endeavor is exerted to master the
fundamental principles of drawing.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF
DRAWING
teaches you these principles in
easy, concise and interesting les-
sons. Every Student's work is
corrected and criticised by Mr.
Weston personally.
The great advantage of Mr.
Weston’s method of teaching
drawing ty post is that
pupils are taught to DRAW
—not to copy.
r
m
a
O
W o7Uty#<
Former pupils of the Weston School are now well-known Cartoonists in Australian Newspapers,
and many Weston pupils make money by sketching long before they complete the course.
Send three stamps to cover postage and we will forward you Mr. Weston’s booklet, entitled
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN,” which tells all about the course and gives examples ot
lessons and specimens of students’ work.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
67 UNION HOUSE, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
away,' Lad grown a holiday resort, with
neat little red-roofed houses popping up
among the tea-tree, motors threading the
rutty tracks, and signboards with announce-
ments of subdivisional sales shooting up
daily from sandhills and maidenhair gullies.
The breath of a more sophisticated life
blew in ? from those cleared ridges. In
summer-time, when they were filled with
noisy crowds—wet ‘ bathing-costumes flut-
, tering from fences and verandah rails,
gramophones, sounding from open windows,
", windshields of cars glinting from beneath
spindle-legged cottages—she felt the stirring
of something unsatisfied in her. What was
it she had lacked in those years of cook-
ing, child-bearing and getting clothes dried
for the men. when they came in wet from
the boats? ’She didn’t know definitely, but
she was conscious of being different ’from
' the Callaways. Different, for instance, from
Tony’s wife, who could spend a whole
morning gossiping with the men while they
were mending their nets, and was never
happier than when pottering about among
her tomatoes and melons by the saltwater
creek.
She stood at the head of the table, serv-
ing the . steak and cabbage, a big, dark
woman, with prominent eyes like Lew’s,
and a figure that still had lightness in it
in spite of the heavy hips and sloppy bust.
The faint down on her upper lip gave her
a masculine look, but it was tempered by
the smoothness of her unwrinkled skin, and
the rounded lines of her chin and throat.
A tolerant smile flickered round her mouth
as she listened to the chatter of Dot and
Hughie. They always did the talking at
meals, and now they were arguing whether
old McNair was a proper doctor, or just a
man who dealt in herbs and patent medi-
cines. Wasn’t his advertisement in all the
papers? asked Hughie. And didn’t Kunkel
say he was just like the Chinamen who
waved their hands over people and then
showed them a worm they had taken from
their noses? At the foot of the table Lew
sat silent and absorbed, eating his food with
gusto but only listening with one ear to
Hughie and Dot. When his eyes met his
mother’s there was a slight embarrassment
in them, as though he meant to say reas-
suringly :
“Don’t worry about anyhing I said this
morning. I want Hughie to get his chance,
same as you do. We’ll talk it over some
other time.”
He was tired. When he had packed the
fish in ice, ready for next morning’s truck,
he came back to the living-room and lay
down on the sofa with his pipe in his mouth,
turning on the gramophone that rested on
the cabinet near his head. No use strug-
gling any more with the violin! His fingers
were getting too thick and homy. And he
would never, by his own efforts, be able
to get more than a thin thread of the
music he wanted, even if he mucked about
with it all his spare time! A man couldn’t
live more lives than one!
Through the open door of the kitchen his
mother watched him secretly as she washed
up the dishes, and the replies she gave to
Dot’s questions were vague and perfunctory.
That McNair girl, she was thinking—what
had brought her here now? And had she
written to tell Lew she was coming? He
was always restless as a caged plover when
she was around, moody, and inclined to
think he was carrying too much weight
on his shoulders. Her very body stiffened
when she recalled the girl’s face, sallow,
sensitive, alive with queer curiosities and
enthusiasms. What did she want with Lew?
He didn’t belong to her world.
{To be continued next week.)
At Eastern View.
At Eastern View the soft salt wind
Steals through the doorways of the mind;
Caressing brows and hair and check,
Its gentle, searching fingers seek
To loose the chains and open wide
Those magic casements, closely tied
By busy hours and care-weighed thought
And those dull ways the world has taught.
Wide, wide they fly and and free the child
That used to run with hair blown wild
Along wet sands and sing and dream;
Enchanted with the foaming stream
That rushed o’er brown and musselled rocks,
Or green glass rollers’ breaking shocks;
Enchanted with the free wild air,
And with the far horizon bare.
With charmed steps seek the quiet cove,
Or up the hidden creek-way rove,
Or prone on headland’s short, rough grass
Smell its sweet sharpness as warm winds
pass;
Watching the clouds drift overhead,
Or the deep wondrous blues that spread
Peacock and sapphire, with wine-dark bands,
Or the long sweep of silver sands.
Drink deep the scent of fresh-cut corn
On slope gold shining in the morn ;
From gleaming gums that climb the hills
Breathe in that incense dear that thrills
The heart’s deep core, while near may fall
Grey thrushes’ liquid cadenced call,
Or small thin note as tits fly by,
Or the bell-magpie’s clanging cry.
VICTORIA.
LUOY ARMSTRONG.
Crescent Moon.
At Manly when the untiring sun,
Seeking iiew solace for long days,
Summons his dancers every one
To prank their wares before his gaze,
And calls on this one or on that
To lean, slim-balancing, or turn
With the sure. poise men marvel at
And a great show of unconcern;
While on bared shoulders nakedly
They take the guerdon of his kiss,
There amid summer’s pageantry
I have,seen girls who move like this:
Shell-breasted sea-things who bind back
Foam-flying hair from eyes wave-deep
And hurtle down combers, with no lack
Of a tern’s daring, dizzy and steep.
Glee in the heart of any man
On the broad beach grown young, elate;
At midmost heaven in full divan
Glee to the garish potentate!
And they were squanderers of mirth
Which had no dwindling, knew no end;
They mocked with loveliness dull earth
And had more loveliness to spend.
But there were none of them could vie
With this lone surfer, unafraid
In the cloud-breakers of the sky
Which foam to-night, squall-driven, squall-
flayed.
* * * *
If the sweet moon be old, so old
That Thebes, long-memoried, reveres
Wrinkles that, pleating manifold,
Tally the number of her years,
Yet has she youth enough to stir
Hearts that no softness had beguiled:
None of earth’s kin come nigh to her
(Save perhaps Manon, dear, dark child!),
And she has strength enough and skill
To meet black waters whirled apace....
Now she di'ves "headlong; now stands still,
Steady and with an athlete’s grace;
Her lithe, curved body, backward bent,
Sways like a flower’s in a breeze
Though tree-ships buffeted and rent
Scud through the hungriest of seas.
—N.-S.-W.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.
The Coming Day.
The owl in the black pine peers at the moon
Low waning in the west, a phantom form;
The distant thunder hints a coming storm
That may ere sunrise make a wondrous rune.
But now the air is still, and daylight soon
Will haply come in as a burning bird
Whose wings with dewy airs are lightly
stirred,
Bearing to earth indeed a heavenly boon.
My heart now lingers with the lingering hour,
As that in tune with all, a dusky thing;
Even as the moon herself, night’s prodigal,
Creeps to her rest within a western bower,
Before the bird of sunrise ’gins to sing,
And the new light anon is over all.
R. CRAWFORD.
The South Wind.
Now the grey harpist from the wintry south
Down the white sky breathes mournful
melodies—
He of the pearly finger's and the mouth
Wistful for far cities of soft ease.
Shudd’ring, he hurries through the northern
night,
Crying for Hobart and the streams of
home,
Sick for wet streets and pools of yellow light,
Cloudbanks of Melbourne, sting of Syd-
ney’s foam....
Recalling moony nights at still Dee Why,
And lovers lingering late on silver sands,
And, cold to plunging limbs and trailing
hands.
The black and silver breakers leaping
high;
Little banks where green-orbed flannel-
flowers
Are lashed with white, and in the tender
gloom—
Grey, tender gloom of spring!—the early
hours
Hold the sharp tang of brown boronio
bloom;
Pale harpist of the grey, the white-capped
seas,
That summer touches such a little while,
Break bonds, and turn! Turn you, and seek
release
From the grim thrall that drives you mile
on mile!
Sweep boldly back! You cannot sojourn
here,
Where the brave red- and purple-floweriug
trees
Make combat with the gold, and through the
dear,
Warm, dreaming months life mounts in
ecstasies.
You cannot hope with all the cadences
Culled from the glitter of the Tasman
snows
To woo our butterflies, with that caress
And icy kiss to thrill this glowing rose !
This is a land of deep and endless light,
Of light that permeates the dullest soul;
That splashes ardent color on the height,
Playing on gay leaf and on silver bole.
This is a land, O hoary troubadour,
You could not weave into a single song—
You who are Arctic to your very core,
And mated with the glacier over-long!
Go back to greyer days and crowded street,
To mincing girls and men grown woman-
wise !
We have our own wind-themes, deep, vast
and sweet;
No chilly airs may whine in Paradise!
Go back! We will have none of your shrill
song,
The high, thin threnodies that you pluck
forth!
We are afire with warmer lays that throng
The sapphire-girt, the sun-enchanted
North!
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


ê
G REAM OF YEAST is a great way to get Better Health because
its ingredients are among the most valuable and beneficial
in medicine, and are so recognised by medical authorities the
world over. Cream of Yeast gives people what they want from
yeast — safe , reliable action — quick, real benefit. Cream of
Yeast is a product of chemical skill combined with resources
ranking among the greatest in the world. It is improbable
that any medicinal tablet could be made to do more good for
average conditions; it is certain that this remedy outstrips
others from most points of view; it is a positive fact that
it is safe. Take Cream of Yeast for Headaches, Bad Nerves,
Sleeplessness, Dullness, Tired Feeling, Indigestion and Com-
plexion Defects. Do not be misled by mis statements. Dc
not suppose that plain brewers’ yeast can give you the benefits
you will definitely get from Cream of Yeast. Remember:
this remedy is a medicinal yeast-compound, costing more to
make than plain yeast tablets, yet costing you no more. It
is an efficient pharmaceutical product, honestly made to do you
good; and is neither a fake nor a fad. Tout money back if
the very first bottle doesn't do you a world of good !
ë
THE OPINION OF THE PRESS
FROM SYDNEY NEWSPAPERS
Daily Telegraph
“ Yeast has long been known as a
corrective in cases of blood disorders,
and as such is constantly recommended
by medical men. The best form is
Cream of Yeast."
Sunday Times
“ Cream of Yeast . . . has been
found invaluable to sufferers from
nervous disorders, debility and want
of tone generally
Daily Guardian
“ Cream of Yeast .. . —the handiest,
most convenient, safe way of toning
up the system ...”
Labor Daily
“ Cream of Yeast is a re-vitaliser.
Its great beneficial health-giving
power lies in the fact that it quickly
tones up the whole system and so
corrects the trouble at its root . . .
The combination of essential sub-
stances . . . make Cream of Yeast the
greatest tonic pick-me-up known.”
AT THE RIGHT, in bathing costume, is Marian Nixon,
Universal Star. This clever girl has featured in many
unusually fine Dictures.
AT THE RIGHT is a fine athletic scene from the Universal College-romance , “ Re>
Lips." This film features Charles Rogers (of the famous war-picture “ Wings ”)
and Marian Nixon. Both these popular stars are most enthusiastic in their praise oj
Cream of Yeast.
Cream of Yeast has received a strikingly unanimous volume of testimony. Famous
people, newspapers, chemists and members of the public have joined
in approving it And the sales of Cream of Yeast are greater than
those of all other yeast
medicines combined. When
you take Cream of Yeast
you take the best and most
practical all-round tonic
pick-me-up money can buy.
Cream
Sold by all good Chemists,
Three Sizes : 1/11,3/6 & 5/9
of Yeast
A
Wm:
m
m
Wfy
m
m
Ml these Film
Stars take
Cream of
Yeast.
Take Cream of Yeast for Nerve Troubles, Sleeplessness, Indigestion,
Sour Stomach, Depression, “Run Down” Feeling, Aches and Pains, etc.


.'l'--..'
Wheat Harvesting Revolutionised/
r
ft
si
(WJi
a
2**
v*
§
S
I
|l
THE IXL POWB. TAKE-OFF &TRANSM ISSIO
WHEATGROWERS !
FORTESCUE’S
The Most Important Exhibit
on the Showground is
I.X.L. POWER TARE-OFF
EQUIPMENTS
For Converting Tractors and Headers into Combined Power Functioned Units.
These Inventions mark the greatest advance in Agricultural Implements since the advent of the Ct p^ RT p(, C Mr.)e INVENTIONS place at the disposal of
LOWER PRODUCTION COSTS can only be achieved by using more scientific methods, and FORTESCUE S INVEINIIUINS place at tne P
growers means for effecting numerous economies. . „
Fifteen distinct advantages result from the “FORTESCUE” method of harvesting, as fol ows.
Wheat-
10.
I. It effects a saving of approximately 40 per cent, of kerosene as
compared with pulling the Header in the old way
2.. The consumption of water is correspondingly reduced.
3. It reduces the time taken in harvesting crops from 33$ per cent,
to 40 per cent ...
4. It ensures cleaner Wheat, better threshing, better winnowing.
5. It effects a saving in bags on account of cleaner Wheat.
6. It eliminates all wheel slippage.
7. The Outfit is more mobile and may be backed—no brake is necessary.
8. - Corners of crops may be worked round, as in turning corners the
speed of the Machinery does not alter, no matter how sharply the
turn is made. ,
9. Loss of grain is prevented, as the speed of the Machinery can be
constantly maintained to ensure best threshing and winnowing.
It is not necessary to turn out of the crop-line to bag up. 1 fte speeu
of the Machinery is obtained before moving forward.
It ensures better work in dirty crops, as speeds are arranged to suit.
Excellent results in down crops are obtained on account of being
able to slow down or stop the forward speed while maintaining the
threshing and winnowing speeds. In special cases of down crops, it
is advisable to use the usual crop-lifting combs.
It entirely eliminates side draft—a most important feature.
By employing one of our I.X.L. Extension Steering Controls, one
man can handle both the Tractor and the Header. ,
We estimate that the life of the Header will be doubled when our
equipments are installed.
The Power Drive is just as necessary for the heavy Tractor as tor a
light Tractor.'
The Drive i. Flexible, Adjustable and Eveu-runuing-thu, eliminating possibility of breakage in the Transmission, with consequent saving of cost in
D„ P n C „ff,fl ta'inspec, the big display of popular Tractors and Header, equipped with our inventions. Our Stand is No. 25 in the Main Machinery Avenue. Over
500 equipments already sold.
GEO. E. FORTESCUE. & SONS, LIMITED arncliffe, Sydney.
ItwWW
Mllll
THE SUNTYNE
COMBINED GRAIN AND FERTILISER DRILL
AND SPRING TYNE CULTIVATOR.
8 Row 17 Tynes Cultivates sft
12 Row 25 Tynes Cu tivates 7*ft.
14 Row 29 Tynes Cultivates B a tt.
16 Row 33 Tynes Cultivates 9£ft.
20 Row 41 Tynes Cultivates 12ft.
24 Row 49 Tynes Cultivates 14ft.
THE SUNTYNE LEADS IN POPULARITY BECAUSE:
The Cultivating Points compact the seed bed and cover it with a mulch of
thoroughly pulverised soil.
The seed with fertiliser is sown on the level compacted seed bed, and secures
full advantage from the stored moisture in the soil.
It will cultivate and sow as shallow or as deep as desired.
Flexible Floats save the tynes and ensure uniform cultivation.
The All-steel Lid keeps seed and super, perfectly dry.
Forward Lever and Hitch for tractor working available at small extra cost.
Illustrated Catalogue, Prices and Terms will be posted free on request.
THE SUNDERCUT
STUMP JUMP DISC CULTIVATING PLOUGH
10-Disc size cultivates sft.
14-Disc size cultivates 7ft.
THE MOST WIDELY-USED DISC IMPLEMENT IN AUSTRALIA.
Unequalled for ploughing in stubble and for dealing with heavy f™*’
Paddymelon, Stinkwort, etc. Also works well in rough country and in virsp
Mallee Lands. Cultivates to a depth of four inches.
Alternate 20-inch and' 18-inch discs, set with undercut, cut to a uniform depth
and leave a granular tilth ideal for moisture catchment and conservation.
Cultivates more soil per horse-power used than does any other dbisc implement.
Differential Cog Jump operates without increasing draught, tractor Lev
supplied in lieu of team levers at small extra cost.
Illustrated Pamphlet, Prices and Terms will be posted free on request.
m
m
SOLE MANUFACTURERS;
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE, AUSTRALIA
BRANCHES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne. 27-39 George Street West, Sydney
95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide. Cr. Murray and King Streets, Perth.
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
H. V. McKAY (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
Ask for General Illustrated Catalogue of all Sunshine manufactures.


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
i
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; VV. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. s
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.Q.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Comfort Service
at Low Cost
Quiet refinement, perfect service,
superior cuisine—these things make
the Grosvenor a good place to live
in—for a day or forever. 300 rooms,
100 bathrooms, spacious lounge,
yale locks on every door. Tariff,
from £3/10/".
GROSVENOR,
(Adelaides Finest Unlicensed Viatel
Opp. Railway Sm. North Terrace. ADELAIDE.
AS WE SAID BEFORE
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
“Boney” was the principal converted
nigger of a certain N.Q. town. He was an
invaluable darky who spoke good English,
and never got drunk, and was the right-hand
man of the local publican—in short, he was
a wondrous specimen of exotic civilisation.
In the same town lived John Stalker, care-
taker of the local Botanic Gardens and a
friend and patron of the elevated aboriginal.
Stalker was agent for a number of Southern
museums, and when he got an order for any
tropical curiosities he generally passed the
commission on to Boney, and when the
article was forthcoming he paid that deputy
with two sticks of tobacco, and sent in his
THE TRIMMINGS THAT KILL.
UNDERTAKER (to newly-made widow ): “What trimmings would you like on the coffin,
Madam?”
N.-M. WIDOW: “Trimmings! Why, no trimmings. I’ve had enough trimmings. It
was trimmings wot killed ’im.”
UNDERTAKER: “What trimmings killed him?”
N.-M. W.: “Why, delirium trimmings.”
own bill for £5. The scheme worked well
till one day an order arrived for an abo-
riginal skull—it was wanted to complete an
unfinished skeleton, and Stalker was re-
quested to use the utmost dispatch. There-
fore he impressed on the faithful Boney that
the required specimen must be on hand by
Monday, and Boney cheerfully undertook to
be punctual. On Sunday he invited Combo,
the magistrates nigger, to come out fishing
with him, and that lost, misguided heathen
went and was never seen again. But late
? n Sunday night Boney trotted cheerfully
into Stalker s house with a bag hanging
from his shoulder. Out of the hag lie ex-
tracted the gore-stained head, which Thing
of Horror he deposited on Stalker’s table
right among his supper. The caretaker of
the local- Botanic Gardens looked at it for
just one instant, and with a yell he climbed
madly over the “saved” aboriginal in his
haste to get out through the door. By-and-
bye he yelled himself out and came back.
The Awful Object was still there among his
victuals, and with chattering teeth he asked
Boney where it came from. That lost
native actually laughed. “Me bin take
Combo’long fishin’,” he explained cheerfully ;
“cut him head off.” Then Stalker seized
Boney in a frantic grasp and howled softly
in his ear that if he didn’t get out of the door
on the instant, and run for his life till
he got to the other side of the continent,
and change his name and repent of his sin,
and never go out in the day-time for the rest
of liis life, he would assuredly be taken and
hanged, and damned after being hanged, and
pursued by debbil-debbil for ever and ever.
Whereupon Boney awoke to a sense of his
danger, and, not even waiting to collect the
tobacco due to him, he rushed out into the
night and was never seen again in those
parts. And when he was gone, Stalker care-
fully boiled Combo’s head till the flesh came
off, and his bill for “One skull, £5,” was
paid in due course. The other part of
Combo was never found.
An ardent pedestrian tramp’t on
Until he arrived at Rockhampton,
There lie sat on the ground,
But his pants, so he found,
Became scorched in the part that he camp’t on.
Before the North Cross Reef, at Stawell,
turned out so richly, an individual who is
now a full-blown Honorable, but was then
known as only Bill the Smelter, was not
one of the richest men in Victoria, as he
subsequently became. He owned 2125 shares
out of the 10,000 forming the co., and the
calls were a heavy tax on him. But he had
the credit apart from this of being one of
the most thrifty of men, and used to live by
himself away down at Doctor’s Creek, and
cook his own food. No one had ever shared
his dinners or knew what he lived on. One
night he was at a meeting of directors in
a Patrick-street pub, and hung a bag up in
the passage. Very soon it was noticed, and
the loungers in the bar resolved that for once
they would find out wliat Bill lived on. They
opened the bag quietly, and out tumbled or
rolled a couple of podgy little bull-pups, just
old enough to be weaned. To this day there
are several malevolent rascals who signifi-
cantly say that the pups were fat and tooth-
some-looking, and that they were never seen
at maturity in their then owner’s company.
“The Queen,” a paper which ought to
know, states that artificial ears are now hav-
ing a large sale.
They are made of
gutta-percha, and
are small, neat,
shell-like, and deli-
cat e 1 y tinted.
Ladies whose natu-
ral organs of hear-
ing are large and
coarse, or red and
hair y, or are
afflicted with a
desire to stand out
like the nose of a
baby elephant, con-
ceal these distress-
ing organs by
training masses of
hair over them, and
fix on the shop ears
so that they just
show through the
hair. Then when
a lover asks his
girl to lend him
her ear, she can
take it off and lend
it to him if she
feels so inclined,
and move haughtily
away, leaving him
in an utterly flab-
bergasted state
with the severed
member in his
hand. But the real
trouble in the busi-
ness seems to be
that a man might
want to kiss his
girl when she was
flushed with danc-
ing or running, and
if he happened to
embrace her upon
the ear, and noticed
that it was icy
cold while the rest
of her was warm,
his suspicions might
naturally be
aroused. Unless
some scheme can
be devised for heat-
ing the artificial
ear it is very liable to give its owner away.
Canterbury (M.L.) has just lost its miser.
He lived on a 150-acre farm, which he sowed,
ploughed, harrowed, reaped and, in fact,
thoroughly worked all by himself without em-
ploying anyone. He lived in a cottage, un-
furnished except for a bunk, a cupboard, two
broken chairs and a box. His blankets were
never washed lest the rubbing should wear
them out. He never bought soap. His
frying-pan—his only cooking utensil except
a kettle —was never cleaned out, lest dripping
should be wasted. He had u long beard which
he never combed—he didn’t possess a comb.
He had proposed to every unmarried woman
within miles of him, rich or poor, including
two daughters of an archdeacon of the Eng-
lish church and their housemaid. For such a
habit he had been horsewhipped several times,
but that didn’t cure him ; when on his death-
bed in the hospital he was urged to make his
will he said, “What’s the use? It’ll be no
good when I’m married.” He left about
£12,000 to be divided among sisters to whom
he wouldn’t give one penny during his life.
“D. 8.”; You ask “Why does not some
pretty girl set up in Sydney as a barber?”
Some six years ago there was a feminine
barber in Sydney. I used to shave then, and
another fellow (who didn’t) dared me to
go in and face the music. It was not a
success. She was not at all pretty and her
fingers were cold and clammy. Moreover, she
was bad-tempered. My companion succeeded
in making me smile when she said sharply,
“Look here, young man, if you don’t stop
grinning, you’ll get cut.” A pretty girl with
warm fingers and a sweet temper might
succeed ; but a cross corpse, no.
“Is there a man in all this audience,”
demanded the female lecturer on woman’s
rights fiercely at a meeting the other day,
“who has ever done anything to lighten the
burden resting on his wife’s shoulders?
What do you know of woman’s work? Is
there a man here,” she continued, folding
her arms and looking over her audience with
superb scorn, “that has ever got up in the
morning, leaving his tired, worn-out wife
to enjoy her slumbers, gone quietly down-
stairs, made the fire, cooked his own break-
fast. sewed the missing buttons on the
children’s clothes, darned the family stock-
ings, scoured the pots and kettles, swept the
kitchen and done all this, if necessary, day
after day uncomplainingly? If there is such
a man in the audience let him rise up. I
should like to see him!” And away back
in the rear of the hall a mild-looking man
in spectacles, in obedience to the summons,
timidly arose. He was the husband of the
eloquent speaker. It was the first time he
had ever had a chance to assert himself.
WHAT HE WANTED.
THE MINISTER: “And pray, sir, what may he your business?”
MR. MACTOOLE: “Well, sir, you see it’s this way. I’ve got a
partner that drinks heavy, and when he gets into the logs
I often have hard work to find a J P. to bail him out.
I want you to make me a J.P., if you please.”
A Nowra (N.S.W.) Cornstalk, much
addicted to cursing, was once riding along
an ugly track with Rev. Mr. Dobbie. As the
fearful oatlis emerged from the mouth of
his unregenerate companion, Dobbie felt
down deep into a pocket for a tract against
swearing that he knew he had on him some-
where. “Young man,” said he, suddenly,
“are you prepared to die?'’ The young
fellow turned, saw his stern-faced comrade
witli one of his hands feeling suggestively in
concealment, dug in his spurs, and galloped
off to a safe distance. Then he shouted
back: “Shoot now, you (bally-crusted) old
bushranger, and be damned to you ! I don’t
believe you could hit a (goggledamper) bul-
lock-team, (dogmast) your (bally) eyes!”
A blackfellow recently charged at Narrabri
(N.S.W.) with putting a log on the rail-
way line explained that he wanted to see if
the train would jump it. He knew it was
fast on the flat, but wished to find out if it
was a steeplechaser.
“A DERRY ON A COVE.”
'Twas in the felon’s dock he stood, his eyes
were black and blue ;
His voice with grief was broken, and his
nose was broken too;
lie muttered, as that broken nose he wiped
upon his cap—
“lt’s orful when the p’leece has got a derry
on a chap.
“I am an honest workin’ cove, as any man
can see;
It’s just because the p’loece has got a derry,
sir, on me;
Oh, yes, the legal gents can grin, I say it
ain't no joke—
It’s cruel when the p’leece has got a derry
on a bloke.
“Why don’t I go to work?” he said (he
muttered, “Why don’t you?”)
“Yer Honor knows as well as me there
ain't no work to do.
And when I try to find a job I’m shadered
by a trap—
It’s orful when the p’leece has got a derry
on a chap.”
I sighed and shed a tearlet for that noble
nature marred;
But ah! the Bench was rough on him, and
gave him six months’ hard.
He only said, “Beyond the grave you’ll cop it
hot, by Jove!
There ain’t no angel p’leece to get a derry
on a cove.”
HENRY LAWSON.
FAIR AND FORTY.
Yes, give me the woman of forty,
Whose waist is sufficiently neat —
Provided her face isn’t warty,
And she hasn’t gone wrong in the feet.
Then the wealth of her amorous knowledge
Makes her better worth winning, by far,
Than the pink and white heiress from college,
Who. routs when you smoke a cigar.
The woman at forty is pleasant,
And warm as a soft summer’s eve;
With the skill of the past and the present
Her mesh she will placidly weave.
You may talk about girls being “clever”
And all that a man can adore—■
They have not the least show whatsoever
With the charmers of twenty years more.
Then give us the woman of forty,
Who is up to each dodge in the game:
There is something reposefully naughty
In the glance of the sweet, mellow dame
When young they are fickle and flirty,
Either laughing, or feigning a rage;
They are wiser and better at thirty—
But forty’s the dangerous age.


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. ~ 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two IVlinutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
%
sfd
Register
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3C Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
Experimenting!
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary experiments?
Cut waste and
advertise with a
“Result Bringer.”
“The
Telegraph ”
(Brisbane)
Has proved itself over
58 years a good “Result
Bringer” for all adver-
tisers.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co., Ltd,
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Representative:
N. L. ROBERTS,
Country Press Co-op. Co. of Aust., Ltd.,
Barrack Street, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE .. 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to lawn
Shipping, etc.
nwmij
MB
m
\u
z.
S 3
IB
m\
m
h
W\\
m
V\v\
\
y JI
WINTER IN SUMMER SEAS
UNION CO. Excursions to South Sea Isles
offer a triple choice to Winter Holidayers.
Sydney Auckland Suva Honolulu
—Return (£75 F irst Saloon; £55 Second).
Auckland Fiji Tonga Samoa and
back; or Sydney Noumea Suva.
Further particulars and fares from—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney; 59 William Street, Melbourne.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN
Excursions to Hawaii
?>NV*
II
£
&
m
sritfi
s
*****
i
■
m
O* *w*w»V**«^i
BURNS PH lIP TOURS
A Visit to JAVA
THE GARDEN OF THE EAST.
Seven Weeks’ Wonderful Tour, including
about two weeks’ escorted motor trip
through Java.
Leaving Sydney by the magnificent liner
T.S.S. MARELLA,
May 7, 1930 July 7, 1930
Swimming Bath, Gymnasium, Deck Cabins, etc.
First-class inclusive fare from Sydney, £l2B
TRAVEL —in Picture, Verse and Story.
Read the “B.P. Magazine,” 1/- per copy.
All Newsagents and Booksellers.
BURNS PHILPeC? LIP
7 BRIDGE ST SYDNEY , AUSTRALIA
BANK. OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
m
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji Papua
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.’
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated'
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Queensland’s
Largest and Most
Effective Advertising
Medium —
THE “BRISBANE COURIER”
These amazing comparison figures should prove beyond all doubt the
superiority of the “Brisbane Courier" as an advertising medium:—
FOR YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1929.
“Brisbane Courier”:
29,152|
columns of advertising.
Two other Brisbane dailies—one
morning, the other an evening:
■one a
28,672£
columns of advertising.
This is easily the strongest evidence, too, that the “Courier” is first in
CIRCULATION, COVERAGE, ADVERTISING AND INFLUENCE.
Specimen copies and Rate Cards from Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Co., “Courier” Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Shipping, etc.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Ulysses . . 15,000 tons, April 18
*Anchises . . 10,000 ~ April 30
IThemistocles 11,500 „ May 16
*Ascanius . . 10,000 ~ June 18
*First class oi:ly.
♦First and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.]
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. j
Joint
Agents
SPLENDID CHEAP SERVICE
Via Suez Canal.
FAST OIL BURNERS
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued from Sept, to Feb., £32.
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
SPACIOUS DECKS—DECK CABINS—EXCELLENT
MENU—CINEMA—DANCE MUSIC REPRODUCED
WITH ELECTRIC AMPLIFIER'S—
CANVAS SWIMMING BATH
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel.: 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
Tel.: 87512. 247 George Street, Sydney.
in/> Magnifloaiit
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as ner daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART pARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Brings Streat, Sydney,
Huddart Parkerl
Keep hopping and hoping if yon wish
to succeed — . think of
' SCHUTE,
BELL&CIm
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
"US
THE PATRIOT
jDlßECnviEDiy^^
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. KACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CLUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISLAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAL ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
— The —
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to—
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World's Leading
Advertising Agencies.
rsk
I,
Dependable!
MOHOCK
■ CRAIG & AITKEN
SSSta-Wholesale Dish'ibuforj
.Sidney N.5.W.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.


m
School frocks
for tiny tots/
r T i HERE is child-like simplicity and
1 charm in “80-PEEP” PRINT.
Make all the kiddies’ rompers, school
frocks, overalls, etc., from this unfad-
able, durable and pretty fabric.
“80-Peep” Print is 36in. wide, and is obtain-
able in many styles, designs and colorings.
Sold by leading Drapers and Stores.
If any difficulty in obtaining, please write,
H. G. RANDELL,
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street, SYDNEY.
Produced by
the makers
of
“ Tricoline ”
—the equal
to silk.
9r
fAy
LoD ht o od~~ for Childrens Wear.
WfflCHtSTm
trade mark
RANGER SHELLS
mm
ft
7
s -
r
w-
A Great Shell
at Moderate
Price
Keeps the Cost of Shooting
Down and Retains All
the Satisfaction.
your all-round shoot*
ing in field and at trap,
use the new Winchester
Ranger weather - proofed
shell. A quality smokeless
v powder shell that will cut
your shooting cost. High-
er brass base. Primed with
the new Winchester No.
4 primer. Sure fire. Uni*
form. Perfect pattern.
N' i
&S. M
For
Sale
by
Dealers
Every-
where.
m
WSAfC/Z&ST&J?,
RANGER
SS
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN. CONN.. U. S. A.
yar
Always use Winchester Ammunition
W inchester Arms- they are made for each other Jf **"
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN ’
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER)
who will quote you price for the original.
The Talkies Come to Burrumba.
A. E. JOBSON
IS THERE TO WELCOME THEM AND TO TELL WHAT
HAPPENED TO MOSES IN THE PROCESS.
MOSES BRODZIEL was proud because
lie was a picture-show proprietor, but
lie was sad because business was
slack.
“Here vos I,” he said to his wife, “pro-
prie-tor of a first-class show, vid der vagon
and der horses, and der cinematograph
machine to make der pictures go round and
valk about on der screen, and der films, and
der peautiful posters to put all round der
entrance, der von vere der pretty girls have
hardly so any clothes on, and der von vere
der lovers make der kiss, and der Vild Vest
and der Charlie Chaplin. And here vos I
put dem all out, and veil somevon say ‘Vere
vos Charlie Chaplin to-niglit?’ I say ‘He’s
coming next veek,’ and somevon ask ‘Vy vos
not the Broadway Follies show to-niglit?’ I
say ‘He vos show last night and der poster
left up so long.’ But now no von comes, be-
cause for vy? It is not der talkies!”
Rachel’s palms were outspread.
“Ve haf not enough money, Moses,” she said.
“I tell you, Rachel,” her husband
answered, “ve must have der talkies, even if
I have to spend two pound or maybe ten
shillings more.”
Rachel became voluble. If her Moses could
obtain a talkie outfit for a matter of two
pound ten, then let him get to work at once.
The money would be returned a thousand-
fold.
So Moses went to the local printer and bar-
gained for some slips to be done forthwith.
He spent a busy afternoon constructing a
pair of tin megaphones which he mounted
on stands. The screen was at the back of
the stage and he arranged projecting wings
from the sides.
“Now, Rachel,” he said, “I vant you and
that no-good Levi vot I pays for manage
der horses vot he does not do at all. I vant
der both of you, von each side of der stage,
to vatcli der pictures and say through der
megaphones der conversations vot you tink
der pictures they saying. I go call that Levi.”
He went to the stage door and shouted:
“Levi ! Levi! Vere der devil are you, Levi.”
Levi arose from a bundle of packing where
he had been resting and came across to
Rachel.
Moses bustled back up the steps.
“That no-good fellow is nefer vere he
should be, nefer at all,” he said with bitter
emphasis.
Catching sight of Levi, who was by this
time beside Rachel, Moses ordered him away.
“You take der tin horn, Levi,” he said,
“and go over dere on that side—so —and,
Rachel, you go der other side and speak
from there—so. Dere vos no need for der
both to be on der von side. I go to der
other end of der hall and hear vot you say.”
He hurried to the end of the hall.
“Now you got to imagine I vos showing
on der screen der picture ‘Love’s Sweet Kiss’
and you talk like der people vould talk if
dey vos talking.”
Forthwith the voice of Rachel boomed
from the right: “Alchernon, my tarling, vy
must you leaf me?”
There was a pause, broken by Mbses:
“Go on, you fool, Levi—you say now.”
Levi’s voice echoed round the empty hall:
“Phillith, my own, duty calls and I must go.”
Levi rushed back.
“It goes fine ! Great! Great! It vos
as good as the Sydney talkies. Ve
vill have full houses! I go post up
der notices about der talkies vile Rachel
write me down vot you each say.
Levi, you take der bell and go round der
town, up and down der middle of der streets,
and call out all about der talkies vot ve have
brought at der great expense, and how all
der people on der screen make conversations.”
Earlier in the day Moses Brodziel had been
proud but sad; now he was doubly proud
and also elated. In his shirt sleeves ho was
slapping strips of well-pasted paper above
his admired gallery of posters announcing:
TO-NIGHT!
At Unheard-of Expense!
The Greatest Talkie Show Outside Sydney ! ! !
He hummed a little ditty while Rachel sat
inside perspiring in the throes of authorship.
Faintly from the main street came the
clang of a handbell alternating with the
sound of Levi’s voice:
“To-night! To-night! Der talkies! At
der School of Arts to-night! All der talkie
films. No silent pictures ! Efferybody makes
der conversations.”
Moses was superlatively happy.
He was a busy man always when evening
came. He attended to the box-office himself
as long as possible; then it was his custom
to dash off and operate the machine, leav-
ing the no-good Levi to receive cash from the
late arrivals. To-night, however, he was
leaving his son, Solomon, a bright lad of
twelve, to cope with the finances, as Levi
would be otherwise engaged. The arrange-
ment was the best he could make under the
circumstances; still it distressed him that
young Solomon could not be in two places
at once, for he would dearly have liked
the boy to be in closer proximity to Rachel
and Levi while he himself was working the
machine. He didn’t trust that Levi.
The response to his poster-work and to
Levi’s practice with bell and voice glad-
dened the heart of Moses. His only fear was
that he would not be able to cram all the
audience into the hall; but this fear melted
when he found that some of the youth of Bur-
rumba preferred to stand and lean against
the back wall rather than occupy seats.
The first half of the performance was
successfully negotiated, although the promise
of “no silent films” was not carried out in
entirety, unless the gramophone accompani-
ment could be said to fill the bill.
The usual slapstick comedy which fol-
lowed gave little room for dialogue; never-
theless, some effort was made to imitate the
noises of motor-cars rushing at impossible
speeds and with a great blowing of horns.
Occasionally, too, a few shouted words served
the dual purpose of keeping faith with the
audience and providing practice for the vocal
principals of the great talking film, “Love’s
Sweet Kiss,” several times amio' inC ed to be
presented during the second half.
At the interval Moses rushed around to
the rear entrance of the hall and introduced
himself behind the scenes. So far they had
made good, but the crucial test was to come.
He found liis assistants delighted with
their performance. Levi especially was so
anxious to show him how some of the noises
were made that Moses had hard work to per-
suade him that the interval was not the
time to produce them. Moses also regret-
fully noticed a smell of beer when near Levi
and remonstrated accordingly. “You vos not
to drink now, Levi! After, yes! I vill
shout a bottle mineself to celebrate. But,
Levi, do not go and spoil everyt’ings by get-
ting drunk before it vos over! Rachel, you
vill see Levi does not get drunk?”
“llow is it I can see him when he is on
one side and I am on the other side oppo-
site?” asked Rachel.
Moses was upon the horns of a dilemma.
Levi was young and handsome, and had a
devil-may-care style that appealed to women.
Moses knew Rachel liked the good-for-
nothing, so he preferred to be around when
they were together. H‘e did some quick
thinking: “If I leave him there by himself,
so very likely he vill get drunk. If I leave
him with Rachel, so very likely he vill make
love to her. Vot vos I to do?” He decided
he would have to risk the lovemaking, and
issued his instructions accordingly.
Though he had not noticed it, Rachel was
also slightly excited by her adventure into
the realms of authorship. She had allowed
her imagination free rein, and, having pro-
duced some very pretty dialogue, was strain-
ing like a war-horse or a greyhound to get
going. The mantles of the authoress and of
the actress had fallen upon her at one
moment, and her mood was one of exaltation.
“You get around and look after the
machine and leave to us the acting,” she
said, and pushed Moses out of the door so
decidedly that he took the three steps down
as one. He hurried back to his machine mut-
tering as he went. His mind was not at rest.
“Love’s Sweet Kiss” had so far run
smoothly. The audience was not too criti
cal. They had heard that the American
accent was very pronounced, and the mega-
phones blurred the speech of Rachel and Levi
and made it something that sounded cosmo-
politan, and therefore probably American.
Algernon and Phyllis had behaved passably
well on the screen, and their vocal doubles
were more than pleased with themselves; so
when a slack period came, showing some
long-distance scenery, Levi produced a bottle
of beer and two glasses. Ho filled one and
offered it to Rachel. If she hesitated, it
was for a moment only. She knew she had
earned it. Hers was the triumph, and she
was thirsty. She took the glass from Levi,
half-closed her eyes in ecstasy and buried
her lips in the creaming froth. She drank
like an artist, Levi as if it was a business.
Then the close-up's came again. It was
the tense moment, the drawing to the climax,
the scene where De Oourcey knew that the
Other Man, Algernon, was gaining a hold.
Levi had thus far successfully represented
the two men by disguising his voice. At
times the disguise was somewhat thin, but
up to the present they had not appeared
together in a scene, and it had mattered
but little.
Now Algernon was on his knees pleading.
“Phillith, I implore you! Come vith me!
De Courcey is cold-hearted. He loves you
not! He does not at all appreciate you,
beauteous one.”
Rachel boomed into her megaphone: “Not
so, Alchernon! He is the man of ice, but
underneath his singlet is a warm heart.
Alchernon, I am afraid!”
Perhaps it was that the last glass of beer
had been the turning-point with Levi. Per-
haps it was that he was inspired by the
unusual words he was using. Rachel was
leaning- against a table watching the screen
intently, megaphone before her, when Levi
boldly came beside her, slid an arm around
her waist, and Rachel’s next speech, “No!
No! Levi, go away this instant, do!” was
not appropriate to the action on the film.
Moses, perspiringly working the projector,
wondered if he heard correctly, and the audi-
ence was not quite clear as to what was meant.
Algernon on the screen, in dress-suit, was
bending over the beautiful lady in billowing
lacy confections as she sat on a divan, bend-
ing back to gaze up into his eyes.
“Rachel! Rachel!” he boomed. “Vy you
stop so long with that fat pig of a Moses?
Yy you not come off with me who am vorth
four of Moses? Vere vould Moses be if I
did not look after the horses and the van?”
Algernon’s head bent lower and lower.
Phyllis reached up with snowy arms, which
went about his neck and drew his face down
to hers.
“Levi,” she said, “keep quiet, you silly
fool! All the peoples vill hear what you
say. So vill Moses, too, also !. ... Oh,
Alchernon! It is so hard to decide! The
touch of your lips it is makes me forget
everyt’ings.” There was a slight pause;
then, “Go on, Levi, do! You spoil every-
t’ings unless.”
Somew-hat sulkily Algernon spoke: “Dear
lady, vot is love but the forgettings of every-
t’ings? Now I know that you love me* and
me alone. Say that you vill come vith me!”
“Alchernon, I vill,” replied Phyllis. “If
you don’t give over kissing me, Levi, you
vill spoil everyt’ings!”
Moses was almost beside himself. He was
tied to the machine while he was in spirit
watching the scene behind the scenes. Almost
unconsciously he speeded up until the pic-
tures danced dizzily.
De ,Courcey rushed in and pointed accus-
ingly at the other. Levi’s voice came some-
what late, “Unhand her, villain !”
In a moment De Courcey and Algernon
v/ere grappling and tossing one another about
in a manner that was intensely pleasing to
the back row, which encouraged the fioffit
to the best of its ability. In between its
remarks and under great difficulties, Rachel
endeavored to keen the dialogue going- “De
Courcey, you shall not touch him!” (De
Courcey had by this time dashed him to the
( Continued, on next page.)


HAIR
MEED
0
N°
HIRES
v»
tfSt
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
t&cJhms cmexican’)
VkdnutStaxm,
Removes the grey"*
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (4/6), 6d. being postage.
fP
Use Cuticura Ointment
for all skin troubles
Red, rough skin, sore, itching, burning
feet, chafings, chappings, rashes, irrita-
tions, cuts or burns are quickly relieved
and healed by applications of Cuticura
Ointment. No household should be
without it.
Ointment Is. and 2s. Soap Is. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
fPIT* Cuticura Shaviug Stick ls.Od.
There are seven
reasons why
Guinness
IS GOOD FOR YOU
No. 7
FOR
SLEEPLESSNESS
If you cannot sleep,
try this simple re-
medy a glass of
Guinness at night.
Guinness brings
natural sleep, and re-
builds the brain cells
which have, through weakness, lost the
power to rest.
GUINNESS is a naturally matured
beverage. It is made from barley,
barley malt, hops and water only, with
the addition of yeast to assist in the
fermentation.
Guinness is not pasteurised and there-
fore preserves its original flavour and
quality. Guinness will keep indefinitely.
N.B.—One pint of Guinness Foreign Extra Stout has a malt car-
bohydrate content equal to one and a half pints of pure dairy milk.
on/vAio
ground for the fourth time.) “I tell you
that you shall not hurt him! Moses,
what for you go so fast? I cannot keep up
at all! Levi say vot you got to say quick!”
At this point De Courcey was .standing
with one foot upon the prostrate body of
Algernon. Levi took his cue.
“Ila, ha, De Courcey! Safe in the pos-
session of Phillith’s love I defy you!”
“Oh, you have killed him !” cried Phyllis.
“Now I know I loved him truly! I hate
you! I hate you! Oh-h-h!” she shrieked.
The figures flashed from one side of the
screen to the other. De Courcey was grip-
ping her wrists, and forced her back to the
mantelpiece in a fraction of a second. A
revolver lay there. She saw it and strained
to reach it.
“Rachel, give me a kith before it’s all over.
Moses vill be here presently,” said Do
Courcey.
With superhuman strength Phillis broke
from his clutches and seized the pistol, bhe
pointed it at Ins body. •
Don t be so. stupid, Levi. she said.
Everyone that is here can hear what jo
say.” , ' _ , , m f1l „
There was a burst of smoke from tc
pistol, and De Courcey fell dead. His wit-
rushed across to the other man and threw
herself in despair upon Ins body.
“Don’t, Levi!” she cried. loure squeez-
ing me too hard!’ , ,
The picture ended abruptly, lhe bacJs
row shouted ribald remarks. The in tc lit gent-
sia as they filed out remarked that a go°d
deal would have to be done before the talkies
were perfect, and spoke learnedly ot syn-
clironisation. . . .
But by this time Levi was running
strongly thirty yards ahead of Moses and
a heavy stick half a mile along the road.
Carter’s Mate.
PAUL VERSCHUER
TELLS A STORY WHICH SHOWS THAT THE EVIL
EYE ISN’T ALWAYS IN A BLACK FACE.
THE uneven jasper road stretched far
ahead to the horizon, and an old Ford
car rattled along at an unbelievable
speed. On both sides stretched an immense
brown plain : but in the south the low line
of the Nullagate Hills stood out sharply
against a hard blue sky.
At Butcher’s Well the Ford turned from
the road. The by-track led to Carter’s Find,
and Carter was going home. He was firmly
convinced he was going home in more senses
than one : li»; was desperately ill. His eyes,
deep set and glowing in an emaciated face,
were barely six inches above his claw-like
hands as, huddled over the wheel, he held
the car down to the unmade track.
Out at the Find he had a mate who looked
after him like a mother and called him a
fool—called him a fool and told him he was
letting himself be frightened to death by
a dirty old nigger who was hardly more
than an animal. And though Carter knew
it was true, the knowledge of his folly did
little or nothing to alleviate his distress.
Three months before, while collecting a
load of firewood, he had been attacked by
a pack of kangaroo-dogs. There were five
big blue devils, savage and splendidly
built, and he had been forced to shoot the
whole mob. Even at the time he had dis-
liked doing it, as he suspected tfye dogs
belonged to a nigger camp near by, and
later he was confirmed in this suspicion. The
natives received his offer to compensate them
with sullen hostility. On the second day
one of the old men took up his place on a
hill overlooking the mine. He sat there
all through the burning hours glowering at
the two toiling men, and before he went he
told them, in the native fashion, that Carter
had to die.
Although they both laughed at this, early
in the same week iCarter began to feel un-
well. As time passed he got worse, and
eventually lost courage and gave up fighting
a spell he could not understand. Now lie
was merely waiting to die.
Waiting to die. But he did not care, he
told himself, as the Ford pounded up to the
top of the last ridge. He had nothing to
live for, anyway.
Breasting the rise he shut off the engine
and stopped the car with a jerk before an
ugly camp made of mulga and sheet-iron.
To one side was a vegetable garden pro-
tected by a high fence of bramble and torn
wire-netting, while behind were the two
shafts, like giant ant-holes.
As he dragged some parcels from the back
seat his mate appeared in the lopsided open-
ing which served the camp as a door. He
gave voice to a grievance he had apparently
been nursing all day.
“Gawd, Bill, ain’t you got any flaming
sense at all? You know you ain’t fit to be
driving that broken-down old battery round
the country! Didn’t I tell you I was get-
tin' them stores to-morrow?”
“Humph!” said Carter. “Well, I got ’em
to-day.”
His mate stared. “Strike me”- He
gulped down his indignation.
“Anyway, Snow,” Carter resumed, “I
wanted to see Stanlake.”
“Stanlake? That thievin’ old lawyer-
bird! What for?”
The sick man sat down on the running-
board and buried his face in his hands. When
he looked up again he seemed, if anything,
more haggard.
“I wanted to make sure our partnership
agreement was all jake.”
“I don’t get you. Bill.”
“Well” —the speaker looked up wearily—
“l wanted to make sure you were getting "the
mine. You’ve been a grand mate, Snow, and
I wouldn’t like the Govermint to be cutting
in on you after I’m gone.”
“Bill, don’t talk, like that! You ain’t
goin’! Don’t talk like a fool. I’ll shoot
that old swine to-morrow, s’help me if I
don’t. We’ll see how his flamin’ evil eye
works then. Come on, now. No more of
this talk about kickin’ the bucket!”
He grabbed up the parcels, threw them
on his bunk, and swung across to the rusty
stove, all in one movement.
For the past two or three weeks Snowy
had been doing all the cooking—Carter
would have just died of starvation if left
to himself—and now he produced two large
steaks, radishes, bread and a billy of strong
tea. “Wrap your hide around that,” he
urged, “and see if you don’t feel a bit
livelier.”
Carter looked at the food with distaste,
then suddenly realised he was very hungry.
* * * *
That night Carter lay sleepless in his
bunk for a long time. Every now and again
he would turn on his side and gaze across
to where Snowy snored in the moonlight
which streamed through the doorway. He
was worried about his mate, and the more
he thought of Snow’s threat to shoot the
old “medicine-man” the more restless he
became. Shooting a nigger was a serious
matter these days—it was sure to end badly
for Snow. He stirred again and shifted his
gaze to the ceiling above. From there it
travelled down the wall until it fell upon a
small-bore Winchester perched on a rack
above his head.
For some moments he regarded the rifle
fixedly, and then glanced furtively across at
his sleeping mate. A new thought was tak-
ing shape. Why not? If he shot the old
rascal himself, it would save Snow from
risking his life and liberty, anyway. It
might save his own life, too, and if it did
and there was any inquiry he could always
plead self-defence. At the very worst las
case would be better than Snow’s —Snow
would be risking everything for him, whereas
he himself had everything to gain and noth-
ing to lose.
lie closed his smarting eyes, rubbed them
with trembling, wasted hands, then wearily
opened them again and fell to staring un-
seeingly at the roof.
A quarter of an hour later he sat up,
lifted the rifle from its rack, and slid to
the floor. Snow stirred twice but did not
awaken, and Carter breathed a sigh of relief
as he crept through the doorway. Outside
there was a moon, and a bitterly cold wind
blew from the east. The sick man’s teeth
chattered as it bit through his scanty clothes,
and he half-turned with thoughts of an over-
coat. The risk of awakening his mate, how-
ever, decided him against that, and so, mov-
ing silently around the little vegetable gar-
den, he struck out northwards in the direc-
tion of the nigger camp.
He did not keep to his course for long.
The full moon wide on his right held his
attention; and something in his throbbing
brain seemed to urge him to seek his quarry
in that direction.
Almost unconsciously his unsteady steps
strayed from the northward path, and he
travelled due east. And as he went he gazed
at the round, beckoning moon and told him-
self that soon he would kill his tormentor.
There was a little ridge in front. Just over
the top lie would find him. He was sure
of it. . . . If only the moon would keep still —
it was swaying queerly. He watched it for
seconds, then continued his stealthy advance.
When he came near the top of the ridge
he stopped to examine his rifle, and found
that he was ho longer carrying it. He
swore aloud, cursed the rifle, cursed the
nigger, and then swore at the moon. What
was wrong with the thing? Why wouldn’t
it keep still, and what made it pulse as if
there were a heart beating inside it?....
Now it was swelling .... and suddenly, as he
watched, it advanced, slowly at first; now
faster and faster, a huge yellow wall sweep-
ing down to overwhelm him.
He gave a short broken cry and collapsed
in a huddled heap on the top of the ridge.
Early next morning a jackeroo from Five
Hills station found him, took him into the
homestead, and delivered him into the capable
hands of the manager’s son, a medical stu-
dent home on vacation.
What young Whitefield did not find appa-
rent in the symptoms, the man soon made
clear in his delirium. The budding doctor
spent half an hour in the sick-room; then
he went out to look for his father.
“Dad,” he called from the big doorway,
“are you using the car this afternoon?”
Whitefield turn to the lad. “No, but you
are not going to clear out and leave us with
this bird in the horrors on our hands, are
you?”
“He’ll be all right for an hour or two;
I waut to see the constable at Ironstone.”
“You won’t do any good. Bluey here has
been telling me all about this beggar. His
story is pretty common knowledge in the
district, apparently—some nigger has put the
evil eye on him or something. You won’t
get Morgan to take any interest in it.”
“Still, if you can spare the ’bus I’m
going,” the boy replied; and soon he was
running into Ironstone.
Constable Morgan gave him a better hear-
ing than Whitefield predicted, and later in the
afternoon when the big Nash drew up in front
of the vegetable garden at Carter’s Find
it had a passenger aboard. Carter’s mate
came out to meet them, and he appeared
very worried.
“Yeh, he was gone this morning and I’ve
been looking for the silly cow all day,” he
answered the lean, hard-bitten constable’s
first, question. “Where did you find him?”
Morgan told him. “Bluey Murphy took
him into Five Hills.”
“Alive?”
“Yes—only just. Now, look here —what’s
the strong of this business? (live us it from
the start—it’s about time this sort of thing
was put a stop to.”
“Cripes, youTe a full wake-up to that at
last, are you?” Snow exclaimed. “I wish
to Gawd you’d done something two months
ago.” And he set to work to put Morgan
in possession of the facts.
“And what becomes of his share of this
joint if he goes under?” Morgan asked.
Carter’s mate told him. “Gawd knows,”
he added. “I don’t want it at the pric-v
But we agreed that whoever went first would
leave the claim to the other. He was only
in t’see old Stanlake about it”....
Carter’s mate realised he was looking
down the barrel of a service revolver, and
stopped suddenly. His jaw dropped, and
he made no effort to resist as the other
clipped the handcuffs about his wrists
Young Whitefield, who had slipped away
during the cross-examination, was standing
in the doorway of the camp and smiling
quietly. He had just completed a very suc-
cessful search.
“I was right, Morgan,” he said as he
stepped forward and handed over a little
package. “Arsenic. I found it under the
mattress in his bunk.”


■
Me
.
0i-
-p:
m
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.
I Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
I N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
I Victorian Office—“Chancery House/’ 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
| South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
PROVED!
THE
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE”
Established 185.1t> *
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise you do not consider the
money involved as a speculation. You treat
this expenditure as an investment and expect
a reasonable return on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in the
affairs and development of Yictoria. Its
present powerful position has been gained by
its literary worth, which appeals to an intelli-
gent public, and by its accurate and complete
news service. These factors, having a direct
bearing on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser looking
for the best IN VESTMENT for his advertising
expenditure.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation,
123,533.
Bates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Clk Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lj d.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
"The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydr-v.
3fis Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
THE
Illustrated Tasmanian
Mail
Published Wednesday. Price 6d.
A Bright, Interesting Weekly, con-
ducted on the most up-to-date lines,
and illustrated throughout.
It is an established favorite with
townsfolk and country folk also in
all parts of Tasmania, and its.
effectiveness as an advertising
medium is receiving ever-increasing
recognition.
It is undoubtedly
TASMANIA’S LEADING
WEEKLY
A Rate Boole, giving full particulars
of the Advertising Rates charged, will
he forwarded on application,
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square. ’
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in ‘THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
l/K
<r>-
Vow are your
to day?
ARE THEY CLEAR
AND BRIAHT, OR
DULL AND
LUSTRELESS 2
THE charm of a person’s eyes, which
should be clear, bright and the whites
tinged with blue, is often spoilt by ill-
health. Dullness and discolouration in the eyes
is a blemish and indicate constipation—which
means that poisons are being harboured in the
system fatal to health and beauty, besides giving
cause to biliousness, indigestion and headaches.
The medicine to remedy this condition is Beecham’s Pills
(a dose at night keeps you right) a most effective and naturally-
actioned laxative. Keep your digestion right and eyes
bright with
BEECHAMS
WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX
PILLS
&
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
“THE EXAMINER” Is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricul-
tural, Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” has been published in Launceston
for 87 years, and is still the family newspaper of
Northern Tasmania.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner ” “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-7o Patterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
426 National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street* Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper.
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6,3, months from
for ichich I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
'ir o'
ri#
S e V $<
0°
,6V
s®
X\* c
-jIV
I®?
•• «
.••• 4^e^V


m
Q
CHRYSLER INSPIRES
MsiaidWllfcWiyi!!
New Chrysler "77" Royal Sedan,
CHRYSLER proves what it IS by what it DOESI
ĕ
you may learn for
yourself why Chrys-
ler inspires a pride
all its own.
FEATURES: Large, powerful engines;
seven-bearing counter-weighted crankshaft;
multi-range four-speed transmission and
gear shift; rubber spring shackles; Chrysler
weatherproof four-wheel hydraulic brakes;
larger, roomier bodies; adjustable front
seats.
MULTI-RANGE
MX 6 t 2
CHRYSLER
THE 77 WITH MULTI-RANGE GEAR SHIFT THE TO WITH MULTI-RANGE GEAR SHIFT THE 66 THE LOWEST-PRICEDCHRYSLER SIX
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales ... Larke, Neave & Carter, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Lane's Motors Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Ward Motors, Limited, Brisbane
West Australia Wm. Attwood Motors, Ltd., Perth
South Australia Southern Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania .......... Metro Motors Pty., Ltd., Hobart
New Zealand Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea .. . r . .. W . R Carpenter & Co., Ltd., Rabaul
