

' :
■i
Never again will a genuine Cine-Kodak be obtainable at so startlingly
low a figure. Just imagine it—an f/6.5 Cine-Kodak for £9.
The simplicity of the Cine=Kodak is amazing. For it is made for amateurs,
by people who understand the requirements of amateurs. For, with this
remarkable camera, movies are as easy as a snapshot is with your child’s
camera!
And at £9 you can afford it! Don’t deny yourself the great thrill of seeing on
the screen the ones you love most in the ways you love most.
Ask for interesting booklets or call for demonstration at any Kodak Branch or dealer.
Of all Kodak dealers
"KODAK
(Australasia) PTY. LTD.
379 George Street, Sydney.
“The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane. Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide. East Street, Rockhampton.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart. Flinders Street, Townsville.
662 Hay Street, Perth.
162 Queen Street, Auckland. 294 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
40 Princess Street, Dunedin. 681 Colombo Street, Christchurch.
< J\fever again at
only
IP
:
mmm
* ri'/i
m
v
L. ,
V'
.
vw*
The Bulletin
ilo \Muafc<aJhx\/ hl&JcuMj l\z<mlmxu .— 8
Vol. 51.—N0. 2639.
Wednesday, September 10, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, 3ST.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


'T’HE New Library Catalogue for 1930 is
now ready, and will be forwarded with
full terms and particulars, post free on
application to ’
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Fight your foe with will to win.
Fash out fearlessly—“ All In!”
If your efforts end in naught.
At the worst, at least you fought.
I 1 ight your foe and end his term
Be he reptile, “tough” or germ. ’
Fight the cold vou now endure '
Win with Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
Learn
Storg Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write jor Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. ' 3
My Name ..., ,
My Address
S.B. 315
Utsaght
o
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized iron should specify
Lysaght s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
fdghfd
UNEXPECTED
GUESTS
Host Holbrook Says:
“ A few drops
of my Worcest-
ershire Sauce
served with the
cold joint en-
sure an appetis-
ing meal for the
unexpected
guests.”
m
i;
v
n
IL 1
; i
WOK m YOUR NIKHOI!
Constipation , partial or complete,
is fatal to your looks
Nature abhors a system that is not daily and completely
cleansed of its waste poisons, and she intends you to abhor
it too. Dull eyes, a muddy skin, excessive perspiration, a
coated tongue, are her warnings that your blood is absorb-
ing dangerous toxins.
Watch for danger signals in yourself. If you find them
though you may not be conscious of being constipated in
the. ordinary sense, you are suffering from incomplete
elimination. You need Eno’s "Fruit Salt”. AglassofEno
taken first thing every morning gently dismisses the waste
matter from your body before it has had time to stagnate.
Cno may be given to children with perfect safety.
MO'S
mmi §Mir
c&he words €>no and eec Salt 9 are registered trade marks .
Sales Agents: THE BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE &. CO. LTD.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
II
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
The Red Page
Slander in the Jungle
In this article the author of “The
Meeting Pool and the forthcoming
sequel “The White Man’s Garden
uses Ins method of writing a book in
reviewing one.
The Elephant came down to the Meetin
Eooi one evening bearing a small objec
in his trunk and laid it on the ground i
Iront of the other animals.
“What have you got there?” asked th
Stick Insect.
“I found it in the jungle,” said the Ele
phant simply.
“It’s no good to eat, whatever it is
lemarked the Hornbill, after smelling it.
«t * ve ,®® ea it,” said Babi the pig
l don t know what it is, but it must hav
been dropped by a white man. They alway
plenty of them in their houses anc
they re always smelling them, though the\
never seem to try to eat them^
“I know what it is,” said the Slow Loris
quietly.
The Elephant handed it up to him.
It s a book,” said the Slow Loris, turn-
ing the pages.
“What’s a book?” asked the Stick In-
sect.”
s a book,” said the Slow Loris
1 his ones called Man’s Place Amongst
the Mammals, and it’s by Frederic Wooc
Jones, of Melbourne University.”
“Never heard of him,” said the Stick
Insect. “What is he—he certainly isn’t an
insect.”
“No,” said the Slow Loris. “He’s only
a professor and he’s written this book to
prove something.”
“What’s he trying to prove?” said the
(Jrang Utan, who had arrived just at that
moment.
“He’s trying to prove,” said the Loris
slowly, “that man is descended from us
animals.”
A shout of laughter went up from the
Meeting Pool.
TV hat a cheek!” gasped the Flying Fox,
who was hanging upside down from a
tapang-tree.
“He must be mad,” said the Stick Insect.
Mad or not,” went on the Loris, “that’s
what he says, and what’s more, he’s got
pictures of the. Orang Utan and my cousin,
the Ruffed Lemur, to prove it.”
What animal does he say man’s
descended from?” asked the Pig.
“I’ll bet it’s the Vulture,” said the Stick
Insect.
“The Python, more likely,” said the Flying
Fox remembering how she had been shot
at for helping herself to the white man’s
mangoes.
“I’d like to hear him repeat it in my
presence,” said the Python, swinging his
head to and fro angrily.
“If you’ll let me get a word in edge-
ways, ’ said the Slow Loris patiently, “I
might be able to tell you. He says there
is a lot of difference of opinion among
white men on the subject.”
“There would
be,” interjected
the Stick Insect.
“H e say s,”
went on the Slow
Loris, “that some
professors claim
that man is
descended from
the cynomorphs
and some say he
i s' descended
from the anthro-
pomorphs
and”
“What’s an an-
t h r opomorph?”
asked the Orang
Tarsius
Spectrum.
Utan. “Sounds to me more like
a disease than 'anything..?
“Well, you’re one,” said the
Loris.
Oh, am I?” said the Orang
uneasily. “Let him prove it,
that’s all.”
And,” went on the Loris,
this Wood Jones says .that others say
man is descended from the manlike apes
and others say he is descended from the
doglike monkeys and still others say he is
descended from the new-world monkeys,
but. he says they are all just as wrong as
the people who say he is descended from
a rib .that God took out of Adam.”
“Well and what’s his guess?” asked the
h lying Fox.
The Slow Loris turned over several pages.
“He says,” he went on at length, “that
man is descended from the Spectral Tar-
sius.”
“What’s the Spectral Tarsius?” asked the
Ivmg Crab who, as he spent most of his
th - e W t ter ’ was not well acquainted!
with the jungle creatures.
<aw CC r ord - ng Pr f ? fessor Jones,” said the
Slow Loris, the Spectral Tarsius is the
size of a small rat, is covered with reddish-
brown hair, has a distressingly naked tail,
eyes as big as saucers, blobs on its toes
and fingers, moves about in an odd
mechanical way, not unlike the hopping of
a flea, eats cockroaches, grimaces like a
, speaks with a shrill, almost in-
audible squeak, and has no cutaneous glands
to sneak of”
“Sounds to me
like a pretty-
accurate descrip-
tion,” remarked
the Stick Insect
when the Slow
Loris had
finished.
“S peak for
yourself,” said
a voice from
amongst the
middle branches
of the tapang-
tree.
“It’s the Spec-
tral Tarsius her-
self,” said the
Flying Fox. “She
always had that
nasty habit of
seeming to
appear from no-
where. Likes
hearing herself
talked about!” I
Homo Sapiens, or
Modern Man, recon-
structed from an
income-tax assessment
by Leason.
. , Y ° U ° ught T to be proud of yourself/'
* a /T r e A Stlck In ,®/ Ct ironically. “All hail to
Mans Ancestor!” And he made a sweeping
bow in the direction of the Spectral Tar-
sius.
All hail, ’ laughed all the other animals,
each making a genuflection after his own
particular nature except the Flying Fox,
w ,°> as ? ke as banging upside down, could
duhun WmS herSGlf t 0 aUd fr ° like a pen ~
Oh, shut up,” said the Spectral Tarsius,
and her voice was tearful. “I’ve been
listening, and I must say you ought to be
ashamed of yourselves running down a
decent woman’s reputation. Until you found
that nasty book no breath of scandal has
ever touched my family. Nobody has ever-
dared to accuse us of bigamy, polygamy,
desertion, neglect of our children or living
beyond our incomes. I know it’s been said
that my cousin the Flying Lemur had an
affair with a seagull, but there’s no truth
m it. None whatever. No Tarsius has
ever burned his brother Tarsius alive be-
cause he disagreed with his religious
opinions. None of my family has ever
begged or stolen or been in a poorhouse or
claimed a baby bonus or asked for an
old-age pension or taken goods on time-
payment or been declared an undischarged
bankrupt or started a Go-slow policy or
cornered the food supply or inflated the
currency and otherwise mortgaged his
children’s future. Have they?” she asked,
and her eyes filled with moisture and she
began to weep bitterly.
All the animals were silent.
“The Tarsius is quite right,” said the Ele-
phant after a while. “It’s no laughing
matter. I’m sorry I didn’t leave that book
where I found it.”
“That’s right,” said the Orang Utan,
reaching out and taking the volume from
the Loris. “It’s plainly a scurrilous publi-
cation. What about giving it to the King
Crab and getting him to take it out to sea
and drowning it?”
“Agreed!” cried all the animals together.
The King Crab began to back down to-
wards the water, holding! “Man’s Place
Among the Mammals” gingerly in his fore-
claws.
“What beats me,” murmured the Python,
yawning loudly, “is how any man should
have had the impertinence to write it.”
M. G. SKIPPER.
Conan Doyle’s Finale
A curious collection of ghostly counsel is
The Edge of the Unknown, by Arthur
Conan Doyle (Murray: Dymocks). It was
his last- book, unless he writes one from the
other side. He would not have taken that
as a facetious suggestion; he believed it
quite possible for dead writers to go on
contributing to this materialistic earth’s
literature. The present book has a chapter
in which he considers the alleged post-
humous writings of Oscar Wilde. Jack
London, Lord Northcliffe, Dickens, Conrad
and Jerome. Here is one alleged contribu-
tion which seemed to Doyle “characteristic
of Wilde’s personality and literary style”:
In eternal twilight I move, but I know that in
the world there is day and night, seedtime and
harvest, and red sunset must follow apple-green
datvn. Every year spring throws her green veil over
(Red, Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—more than a slogan, a law at Anthony Horderns’.
Anthony
Horderns'
(THE SENIOR STORE)
Fine Quality Dinner Sets
at Surprisingly Low Prices
How great is the pleasure of sitting down to a meal daintily served on an attractive
Dinner Set! You do it 365 times in a year at least, so the cost is both relatively
and actually very small. Take these we feature below —of course until you have
seen and handled the Dinner ware it is not possible to fully appreciate the quality—but
they are all high-grade English make and are exceptional value at the prices quoted.
Pearl Set, 77/6
33-piece Dinner Set—l 1 pearl,
with neat black border and lace
design. Exclusive to Anthony
Horderns’. Price, set . . 77/6
Dinner & Tea, 62/6
Combination Dinner and Tea Set,
comprising 6 each plates for dinner,
dessert, bread and Vwitter and coupe
soups; 3 meat dishes, 1 gravy boat,
2 vegetable dishes; 6 cups and saucers.
7-piece salad set, 1 jug and basin-
Price, set 62/6
m,
mil
Rossall, 77/6
Grindley’s Englishware—Rossall
floral border design. 33 pieces.
Exclusive to Anthony Horderns’.
Price .......... 77/6
Crown Derby, 80/-
The attractive 33-piece set above
is in Crown Derby effect—gilt,
red and blue floral.
Price, set, 80/-
m
Academy Set, 75/6
This set has very pretty border
and ivory ground. 33 pieces.
Splendid value at, price . . 75/6
Cups and Saucers, dozen . . 19/-
Write for our Spring and
Summer Catalogue
There is much to interest
you in our new Spring and
Summer Catalogue, contain-
ing as it does all the new
fashions Frocks, Coats,
Millinery, Handbags, Gloves,
Hose, Sunshades, as well as
Underwear, Bathing Suits,
the new Dress Materials and
Men’s Wear.
w~.
3«
SP I
us?
&SL
tS
m
Black Festoon, 70/-
“Shellbourne” Englishware
black festoon, with floral medal-
lion Dinner Set. 32 pieces in all.
Price, set .... 70/-
/K.A
P
K*
r?
IS
>y-.
r
Bleu de Roi, 85/-
Pretty Dinner Set, with gilt lines
and brown lace decoration. 33
pieces. Price, per set .... 857-
Separate pieces always available.
Crown Derby, 84/-
549 Grown Derby Pattern Border
Set. The pretty border is well
illuminated with gold. 33 pieces.
Price, set . . 84/-
(China, Third Floor- We deliver free city and suburbs only.)
_ I . : ; h; ” ' ' " • '
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P-O,


To- days
aid
la sparkling
HEALTH and FITNESS
NEW
Pep 9 in a Few Minutes
There’s nothing like
Cream of Yeast to calm
the Nerves in tense,
exciting moments!
%
~|p*
* &
WHY be nervous, weak-looking and depressed? You can put
new pep into your jaded body; new sparkle in your eyes; and
gain several pounds of healthy “stay-there” flesh, improving
your looks and fitness amazingly—by means of this New Yeast Com-
pound. Everyone who tries Cream of Yeast says it is a marvellous pick-
me-up ! Not only makes you feel better and brighter in a few minutes,
but it has no equal for banishing “pasty” skin, nerve troubles, indiges-
tion, headaches, sleeplessness and “run-down” conditions generally.
Bony limbs take on attractive curves; ugly hollows vanish—you quickly
become a different being when you take this remarkable remedy.
A Leading Newspaper says: “Cream of Yeast is
a re-vitaliser. Its great beneficial health-giving power lies in the
fact that it quickly tones up the whole
system and so corrects the trouble
at its root. The combination
of essential substances
makes Cream of
Yeast the great-
est tonic pick-
me-up known.”
'-V
•Si*
M
JSSSi
wv-
■ •:
\ V y-y-'' : : : .
mmm
Quick Benefit
-—or Money Back!
Get a package of Cream of
Yeast from the nearest
Chemist. Take as directed
on bottle, and if after this
generous trial you are not
thrilled with the weight and
health beuolits gained, your
money will be refunded by
Amalgamated
Laboratories,
Wynyard
Square,
Sydney.
Thousands
say “Cream
of Yeast is
LIFE!”
Gain Weight
and Stamina
NOW!
‘lt has
done me
a lot of
good 9
k
s
m
M
X
ONE
User says:
“I find great
relief in Cream
of Yeast; it has
lone me good
in several
ways. Had
been in ‘ Hospital’ and ‘ —— Sani-
tarium.’ Was going back in health, and
was in a very bad way. Before finishing
my first bottle of Cream of Yeast I
began to improve. I have spent no end
of money on other medicines, but none
have accomplished the good that Cream
of Yeast has done.... Such a vast im-
provement in so short a time.”
—A.E., Young, N.S.W.
GAIN
NEW ‘PEP’
TO-DAY —
Amazing Vitality To-morrow!
This is something new in rejuven-
ating “pick-me-ups”—the benefits
come with surprising rapidity, yet
results are lasting. Cream of Yeast
combines yeast and other medicinal
agents of known and proven value
—in handy tablet form. Safe and
reliable. Unfailing results.
It is folly to he thin, nervous and lacking in “yep"
when thousands, once run-down and ill, tell how they
gained Slbs. to 15lbs. in 2 or 3 weeks —and immediate
new strength—by simply taking Cream of Yeast.
WHAT CREAM OF YEAST DOES
Relieves Headaches and 'Neu-
ralgia in Jf minutes. Banishes
Depression, Low Spirits, Brain
Fag in 8 minutes. Relieves
Acidity, Sour Stomach, Indiges-
tion in 8 minutes. Relieves
Periodical and Abdominal Pains
usually in 12 minutes.
Clears up Influenza Colds,
Catarrh attacks, Rheumatism,
Aches, Pains, etc., within 15
hours. Gives marked increase of
Forceful Vigor and “Pep ” in
15 minutes. Clears Pimples,
Boils, Muddy Skin and Erup-
tions usually within 2 days.
Famous
Athletes
train on
Cream of Yeast.
o
All Chemists and Stores,
1/11, 3/6 and 5/9.


—rw
X
' i
fgfh
fhfh
fdhfdh
fdhfd
hfdh
fdhfd
hfdhfd
hfdh
C T&ngup
England, Scotland, Ireland,
Wales, or fourteen European
countries from your own home
or office,
V/4
IMMiMIJ
cjjelegraph
England, Scotland, Ireland,
Wales, North America, and
all European countries,
VIA I
IJ-h*
Cheap, Fast, and Accurate.
To Your Friends at Sea,
V/4
fdhfd
For full information regarding
these services, telephone
A.W.A. Offices, 8W2211, and
ask for "Traffic,” or apply at
any Post Office, or at
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(A’ASIA), LTD., v
47 York Street, Sydtffcy
AVI'
tha world and anon the red autumn glory comes to
mock the yellow moon. Already the may is creeping
like a white mist over land and hedgerow, and year
after year the hawthorn bears blood-red fruit after
the death of its may.
“This,” Doyle adds, “is not merely ad-
equate Wilde. It is exquisite Wilde.” It
and other passages are alleged to have been
received in 1923, and were produced by
Mr. Soal writing, while Mrs. Dowden laid
her hand upon his. Later Wilde becomes
humorous: —
Being dead is the most boring experience in life.
That is if one excepts being married, or dining with
a schoolmaster.
He also indulges in a little literary criti-
cism :
I knew Yeats well —a fantastical mind, but so full
of inflated joy in himself that his little cruse of
poetry was erupted early in his career—a little
drop of beauty which was spread only with infinite
pains over the span of many years.
Northcliffe apparently chose to communi-
cate “through the hand of a lady living in
a small town in New Zealand, and quite
ignorant of her control’s character, or of his
methods of thought and expression.” He
tells her:—
I would probably not have risen above the rank
of private yet had it not been for some executive
ability. For the will power and the dynamic force
necessary to achieve success in my old line of en-
deavor has helped me considerably here.
Which conjures up a picture for those who
want it. And, adds Northcliffe:—
The colossal ignorance and arrogant pride of so
many of those whose privilege it is to help to form
public opinion is my especial bugbear at present.
If they would not be so smug and self-satisfied about
it I could bear it better. But, as things are, I
often long to prick the highly-inflated bubble of
their unholy conceit with one of my sharp, old-time,
vigorous denunciations of humbug.
Conan Doyle asks, “Can anyone imagine
that these forceful words, which can be
matched in unpublished communications
from the same source in England, could
have really come from the mind of the
lady in far New Zealand?” The form of the
question seems to imply a slightly contemp-
tuous regard for ladies in “far New Zea-
land.”
The book’s most interesting chapter,
however, is the one entitled “The Riddle
of Houdini.” The great escapist not only
denied throughout his career any super-
human powers—he said that, apart from
trickery, many of his feats resulted from
his having brought his muscular system to
the acme of perfection; he could, for in-
stance, shuffle a pack of cards under a table
with his feet whilst doing something alto-
gether different above the table—but he
practically spent the spare-time of his life
in attempting to expose mediums and what
he was pleased to call their hocus pocus.
It is rather strange, then, to find Conan
Doyle not only defending what Houdini
attacked but attempting to prove that
Houdini did have supernatural powers:
Doyle’s suggestion that Houdini refused to
admit the possession of such powers only
because if he had done so his box-office
receipts would have slumped takes hard
swallowing. Isn’t it much more likely that
they would have multiplied beyond count-
ing?
A striking feature of the whole thing
is the seriosity with which Doyle accepts
what, set down in cold print at any rate,
gets veiy close to the ludicrous. The
“nearest admission” he ever got from
Houdini that he “was right in thinking that
there was a psychic element in every one
of his feats” was
“It all comes as easy as stepping off a log,” said
he to me, “but I have to wait for the voice. You
stand there before a jump, swallowing the yellow
stuff that every man has in him. Then at last
you hear the voice and you jump. Once I jumped
on my own and I nearly broke my neck.”
Then there was the time when Houdini,
“hard-pressed by some defender of Spirit-
ualism who impugned his motives and his
violent and vindictive campaign against
mediums,” turned to his wife and said, “I
have always been a good boy, have I not?”
Again, w’hen Houdini was questioned by
Captain Bartlett about his box trick:—
Instantly his expression changed. The sparkle
left his eyes and his face looked drawn and haggard.
“I cannot tell you,” he said, in a low, tense voice.
“I don’t know myself, and, what is more, I have
always a dread lest I should fail, a.nd then I
would not live. I have promised Mrs. Houdini to
give up the box trick at the end of the season,
for she makes herself ill with anxiety, arud for
myself I shall be relieved, too.”
He stooped to stroke our cats, and to our amaze-
ment they fled from the room with their tails in
the air, and for some minutes they dashed wildly
up and down stairs, scattering the mats in ail
directions.
But the most curious reading of all is the
account of Houdini’s death. He had lectured
at McGill University a few days before and
had allowed some of the students to come
to visit him. He received them in his
dressing-room, and one of the young men
tells the story:—
Houdini was facing us and lying down on a
couch at the time, reading some mail, his right
side nearest us The first-year McGill student
asked Houdini if it was true that punches in the
stomach did not hurt him. Houdini remarked rather
unenthusiastically that his stomach could resist much,
although he did not speak of it in superlative terms.
Thereupon he gave Houdini some very hammer-like
blows below the belt, first securing Houdini’s per-
mission to strike him I am certain of at least
four very severe body blows, because at the end of
the second or third I verbally protested against this
sudden onslaught on the part of this first-year
student, using the words, “Hey, there. You must
be crazy, what are you doing?” or words to that
effect, but Whitehead continued striking Houdini
with all his strength Houdini stopped him sud-
denly in the midst of a punch, with a gesture that
he had had enough. At the time Whitehead was
striking Houdini, the latter looked as though he
was in extreme pain and winced as each blow was
struck.
The same sort of story can be heard every
now and again in a police court after a
dust-up in some doubtful locality, though
there is usually the grace to have the
victim standing while the punching is going
on. And so Houdini went out—from a
ruptured appendix. It takes some strain-
ing to find psychic influences in such a pie,
but Conan Doyle manages even that.
MACDONALD.
A Cattle Country Novel
The Vanishing Horsemen, by A. E.
Yarra (Lothian), is a bush yam full of
action. Bruce Somerville loses his ancestral
station—mortgaged to the hilt by a prodigal
father—and makes a fresh start in Queens-
land. At Westernville he and his faithful
abo. servant, Tamporina Charlie, are
accused of cattle-stealing. Their lawyer
diagnoses that they are “the victims of a
plot on the part of a well-known gang.”
The gang has been named the Vanishing Horse-
men. They have never been seen near a mob of
cattle, and yet they have been robbing the stations
on a big scale for years. The local police force
has long ago admitted it is completely baffled.
After many adventures and tribulations
Bruce and Charlie are acquitted, the gang
is broken up, and all ends happily. Mr.
Yarra knows how to make a story exciting,
and he has an eye for the charm of the bush
and the power to express what he sees.
Charlie and his wife are two of the most
engaging abos. in fiction, and their lingo is
wonderfully well done. Take Charlie’s
answer to a suggestion that he should have
bolted from the police when he had the
chance:—
“Boss, I’mi s’prised at you sayin’ that to me after
the way you treated me. I might be black inside,
but I got as much guts as a white man, anyhow.
S’posin’ you was a poor black cow like me, an’ you
had a good boss, an’ he fired you sebenteen time
and then nebver sack you once, an’ treat you likeit
white man. Would youda gallop off an’ leave him
wit’ t’ree hlurray mug policemen?”
The defect of the book is one that for some
strange reason often weakens bush novels.
Bruce talks like this:—
“Mother, it was a royal decree that released me
from the thraldom of a decayed heritage. I have
a fancy that it may be another royal decree that
will start me off with a new one unencumbered. Do
you think you are willing to trust me with that
cheque you brought up for my legal expenses?”
His mother and fiancee are guilty of equally
beautiful English—such English as no human
beings ever used habitually in casual con-
versation, and least of all backblocks Aus-
tralians, whose speech is notably terse and
racy.
J.D.
Books Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a com-
mittee of judges nominated by the Associ-
ated Booksellers of Australia and Maori-
land. It is printed to serve as a guide to
books of merit, though not necessarily with
the Red Page’s endorsement.
General Literature. —Later Years of
Thomas Hardy, by Florence Hardy; Tradi-
tion and Hugh Walpole, by Clemence Dane;
Human History, by G. Elliott Smith'; The
Book of Puka Puka, by Robert Dean Fris-
bie; Pearl Diver, by V. Berge and H. W.
Lanier; The World in 2030, by Lord Birken-
head ; Life of John Costello, by Michael M.
J. Costello; Amy Johnson, the Lone Girl
Flyer, by Charles Dixon; The Wild Swan,
by Mary Gilmore; Desert Islands, by Walter
de la Mare; The Real War, by B. H. L.
Hart; ' Annals of a Chequered Life, bv G.
M. Brookfield.
Novels of Literary Merit. —North of Suez,
by William McFee; Cimarron, by Edna
Ferber; And Co., by Jean-Richard Bloch;
Red Waggon, by Lady E. Smith.
Novels for Popular Reading. —The Door,
by Mary Roberts Rinehart; Rice, by Louise
Jordan Miln; Johnny Reb, by Marie Con-
way Oemler; Retribution, by Henry St.
John Cooper; The Golden Pound, by A. S.
M. Hutchinson ; The Redemption of Morley
Darville, by Stephen McKenna; Men Are
Human, by Vance Palmer; Barren Corn, by
Georgette Heyer; The Little Dog Laughed,
by Leonard Merrick; Here’s Luck, by L.
W. Lower; Drink Up, Gentlemen, by J. B.
Morton; Frolic Lady, by S. P. B. Mais;
The Cavaliers of Death, by Rosita Forbes;
These Generations, by Elinor Mordant.
A Satchel of Books
Heine, by H’. G. Atkins, and Moliere, by
11. Asbton, liave been added to Routledge’s
first-rate “Republic of Letters” series of
biographies. The stories are told at a great
pace, that yet permits a detailed account of
living and work. It is biography of the
brisk, forceful order, which engages like good
narrative.
The artistic defect of V. Sackville-West’s
The Edwardians (Hogarth Press) is its
shrill insistence on the spiritual differences
between fashionable people 20 years ago
and fashionables of their class who have pre-
ceded and followed them :
Christmas presents were exchanged between so-
called friends who in reality cared nothing for one
another, but who unquestioningly followed the ex-
pensive fashion, giving one another those trinkets
that were cut in stone as hard as their own hearts.
Actually the people of this book are a very
human lot who react to their circumstances
on perfectly normal lines. There is a nice
young duke who is undermined morally by
too much power and money. Sylvia, his
mother’s friend and contemporary, seduces
him (the elderly beauty who turns from her
ageing husband to a younger man is a familiar
phenomenon in every age), and is forgiven to
avert a scandal, as happens in most cases of
the kind. The duke’s sister, disgusted by
the futility of a fashionable existence, becomes
a Chelsea bohemian. And away in the back-
ground of both their lives is Anquetil, the
strong, clean-hearted, mysteriously fascinat-
ing though no longer young explorer, who
will save the duke from himself and marry
Lady Viola in the end. The value of the
book, which is considerable, lies in its authen-
tic side-lights on the manners and customs
of Edward Vll.’s friends, and the style is
appropriately picaresque. It is full of acute
observation, as well as maliciously feminine
wit, and discerning historians are sure to
make free use of it in years to come.
Answers to Correspondents.
w
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. * f. J
Canberra: What did The Bulletin do
to prevent Canberra being (1) selected as the Capital
site and (2) built? Do! Why, it cursed the whole
scheme week by week for years, and has never ceased
to curse... .F.H.W.: Hardly worth the hard work
of deciphering E.L.C.: Could be packed into a
fourth of the space... .J.E.S.: Don’t know where
you could place it —except in the fire H. J.A.C.:
“The Message” being sent by post M.C.M.: Un-
able to use... .J.P.: A thing of pink and purple
patches.... C.W.L.: It set the basket on fire.... S.R.:
“A Ghost That Lied” not a ghost of a chance....
H.E.8.: Appreciate spirit but not script G.A.:
Congratulations to “Mum” L.L.: Prospect of
placing stories or play unfavorable J.H.8.: Done
before... .W.A.R.: “Expiation” must be its own
reward... .8.P.: Golfing story bunkered... .H.J.: No
patent rights in the invention yarn... .P.V.R.: Decline
the combination W. J.C.: “Bones of Ah Jung”
committed to basket M.P.: “Ship from Home”
on the return journey C.V.G.: Story a dud;
pome that took “between fifty and seventy years”
to mature, feeble D.L.: Told to Adam’s grand-
children.... G.T.: Pirie-street (Adelaide) was named
after Sir John Pirie, an early Lord Mayor of London
and an original director of the South Australian Co.
. ...A.P.: David Low was born Dunedin (N.Z.),
April 7, 1891. He joined The Bulletin staff in
1911 and went to London in 1919 under engagement
to the “Star.” He joined the “Evening Standard”
in 1927....R.K.M.: The 1929 Archibald prize was
won by John Longstaff, and the Wynne prize by
Elioth Gruner... . J.J.: The titles of Royal Highness
and Prince or Princess are (except for existing titles)
restricted by Letters Patent of November 30, 1917,
to the Sovereign’s - children, the children of the
Sovereign’s sons, and the eldest living son of the
eldest son of the Prince of Wales. .. .8.T.: Cheer
up. Have you already forgotten that we won the
last Test match?... .H.M.A.: Well, you write about
all the best-used topics, anyway.... J.K.E.: Has
merit, but does not hang well together... .B.B.:
Off the target; try it elsewhere C. J.H.: Nothing
impressive about the c00k.... H.W.: Within a shave
of being melodrama.... Scotty: Right enough, in its
way; but it doesn’t get high enough... .M.A.8.: All
too slight.... K. 8.: The thought refuses to run....
Thistledown: “Smiles—trials.” “Myalls” at once
suggests itself as a third rhyme... .R.E.W.: Expect
to hear any day of the appointment- of a few traffic
cops on the Road of Adventure... .A.P.: It’s a
longish yarn, but the lady deserves mention: —
She could drive a six-foot header,
Do a fifteen-acre day,
Sew a bag of wheat a minute,
Fork and stack a, load of hay ;
She rode at shows and races,
And took stiff fences, too;
Says Ouyen Bill, “She’s just the thing,
She’ll be Queen of Inkapoo.”
.. ..D.C.: Not enough life in ’em... .P.R.0.: “Lines
on a Stripper” at least read as if that’s where they
were written... .J.V.L.: Too long and rambling....
The S.S.: One knocked hard at the start, but weak-
ened. .. .8.W.: You might do something if you can
break away from the stereotyped. .. .J.C.: Not at all
bad, age considered... .C.C.: You don’t quite get
through, but we’d like to hear from you again....
M.M.G.: Not quite... .W.8.E.: Your recipe appears
to be to take a small portion of idea and smother
with words... . J.F.A.: Doesn’t improve the jingly
stuff to leave out the rhymes... .R.W.J.: Seems a
deuce of a lot to write about so little... .T.J.C.: You
write about an experience instead of writing it.
G.F.: Main defect is that it’s unsuitable....
T.A.P.: Expect you to do better when you put
more snap into the job... .M.W.P.: Try doing less,
and doing it tighter... .A.E.W.: Fair as a rhyme,
but says far too little for its length. .. .P.G.K. :
How about concentrating on one effort, and making
a job if it?....M.L.: Slight as an armful of mist.
S.J.W.: One sent back, that you might give it
a fly elsewhere; the others no value... .M.R.: “This
may sound dreadful to you, but it’s part of your
job to suffer.” ’Yes H.H.H.: Y?Y?Y? E.R.8.:
“Glow-worms” throw far too faint a light....J.
Seaview: Still can’t see a place for Old 8i11.... J. 8.:
Does the bird justice, but only in places. . . . E.A.N.:
Can’t recall it; but it would have been judged....
,T.D.: Pity you didn’t include at least a twig of
poet-tree in the arbor.... B.K, ': Grieved to note that
spring is with us again... .A.M.N.: Not without an
idea, but doesn’t quite make tbe weight.... Bellerive:
Hail Chapter II of the great sporting serial: —
FISTIC WARRIORS OF OLD ENGLAND.
They battled in sunshine,
And rain, wind and snow,
The bruisers of England,
Long year’s ago.
Cribb, Gaunt and Perry,
The Tipton Slasher
And Freeman the giant
A formidable basher.
And fearless Tom Sayers
Long gone to rest.
A bruiser who shone
With Old England’s best.
(Next Week: “Formidable Pugilists of the ’Eighties
and ’Nineties.”)
. ...M.St.L.: Pure melodrama.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.P.: Sketch of spinster rejecting policeman also
rejected... .H.E.: Not going to the artists’ carousal.
. ...R.S.M.: Shan’t advertise your immaturity....
G.K.: An “unrestrained style” merits unrestrained
criticism. They’re rotten... .A.E.S.: Can’t stage
Commodore v. Rear-Admiral bout... .C. 0.: Only a
handful would appreciate it. .. .8.L.J.: No use ex-
perimenting in that direction... .J.M.D.: Inferior
fairy-tale illustrations... .T.H.: And you call that
a horse!... .C.E.: A sinfully overworked joke....
R.P.: Underclothing hawker gets a sultry reception.
. ...F.A.S.: Lessons might haul you out of the
rut....H.U.: Would look better with half the lines.
. ...K.D.: Fifty-year-old stage Irish humor. .. .S.N.:
Don’t want rehashed talkie gags... .M.M.G.: Even
the carefully drawn synagogue won’t compensate
for those Yids... .H.J.: You’re right; they are
atrocities P.A.K.: Crude. .. .C.A.V.: Didn’t score
a second glance M.T.: No indication of talent. .. .
C.P.: Cheer up !.. . .D.H.8.: Not a nibble....
W.H.S.: Drawings and jokes don’t fit. .. .M.A.R.:
Needs pruning. .. .W.P.: Sketch homeward bound... .
1.G.: A frowsy pair and rusty repartee. .. .8.R.:
Not keen on lady in rabbitskin coat... .T.D.: Same
old kangaroo-lion Test-match props G.C.A.: On
the contrary, you’re slipping.


hfdh
FAMOUS
WINES
/•!
/' ■
. ■%
w
i
u
.A'- :
iiMllliilj
■
_js? • .t . :
■
1 i
H
■HUI
| i®Sii®llli;
! j
m
I i
Hi
"MHI
r / j
n
Sill 11(111 M H Smmmmm
Siilil
■ N
■i
1
i m
in
*
/
■
iZ
«s*
■
Jtiti
H
-
m
i
■
«
b - u
■
■
mm
. > • .:-■■;>* .
m
■
h m
iiii
■
M
~• ;v> f '
iMHI
H
m
m
mm
■
■■
■■■l
a
ragi
- p
-
IMF . : .
Imim y*
Mfifmr
Sml *
yfye Aad iid
99


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2639.
September 10, 1930.
WITH THE PRIMINISTER ON TOUR.
“Mr. Scullin likes the motion of the ship.”— Despatch from Orama.
“Funny! Those fellows seem to be having quite a rough time; yet I’m not feeling it at all.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 211 j George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: IH-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Berth.
London : 86 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5793.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 1/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6at.;
5 months, 7s.
To ANY ADDRESS OVERSEAS I 12 VlOntllS, £1 10s.,
6 months, 15s. Gd.; S months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
HOW ANIMALS VIEW HUMANS—
By M. G. Skipper, author of “The Meeting
Pool’’ .. .. .. . . . . 2
CONAN DOYLE’S FINALE . . . . 2, 5
BOOKS WORTH READING 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON .. . . 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
ARE WE MAKING ANY HEADWAY ? . . . . 8
WE AND CANADA: A COMPARISON . . . . 8
WESTRALIA’S GAINS UNDER FEDERATION 8
AUSTRALIA’S WAR DEBT TO BRITAIN . . 8
BAVINSHAW GOES TO THE COUNTRY . . 9
THE BASIC WAGE 9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD .. .. . . 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with cartoonlets by
Frith) .. .. .. .. .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. 11, 12
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 13
PERSONAL (with four caricatures) .. .. 14
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
AN INSECT PLAY—with incidental insects
by Frith . . . . . . . . . . 16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 17, 18
HOLDEN’S 17
UNION BANK 17
SARGENTS 17
HOWARD INVESTMENT 17
GEORGE FARMER 17
PICTURE COS. AND MERGERS .. ..18
INVESTMENT QUESTIONS ANSWERED ..18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 20, 21
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 25
BUSH HAY . . 22
INCREASING THE POTATO YIELD . . . . 22
PIGFARMERS AND THE PUBLIC . . . . 22
FARM QUESTIONS ANSWERED . . . . 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 26
SMOKE-OH (with drawings) .. .. ..28
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 30
WHAT IS THE MATTER WITH US 7
A Diagnosis of Australia’s Sickness . . 30
THE FORESTRY BOND BUSINESS 30
FISH-CANNING POSSIBILITIES . . . . 30
POVERTY POINT 31
THE PALETTE 31
THE INKY WAY .. .. 31
SHADOW SHOWS ..33
SPORTING (illustrated) .. .. .. 35, 36
V.A.T.C. RACES 35
CANTERBURY PARK 35
INTERNATIONAL FOOTBALL 35
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 37
CHINA TO PERU 38
Billy Hughes in the uniform of an English
militia private . . .. .. . . 38
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 41
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 44
NEW SERIAL—
“Thirty Pieces of Silver,”
By Montague Grover .. ..42, 43, 45
AS WE SAID BEFORE (with drawings by Phil
May and “Hop”) .. .. .. . . 47
A COMPLETE STORY—
“BONDS OF THE EARTH”—
By Osmar E. White . . . . 49, 50
VERSE—By Margaret Fane, “Gerardy” . . 11, 45
jTuTfyitlleiz/fl
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 1930.
ARE WE MAKING ANY
HEADWAY?
Obviously we must first know what port
we are making for and where we were when
we started. Our position then was plain
enough. For seven years to the end of
1928-29 the interest due on our overseas
public debt, exclusive of municipal and
local loans, was in all 180 millions. In-
stead of paying any part of that by excess
of exports over imports, our actual excess
of imports was 56 millions. So during that
period we lived beyond our means to the
extent of more than 236 millions—236
millions plus interest on local loans and plus
the difference between what we had to pay
for private investments in Australia and the
little that was coming to us from our own
investments abroad. Roughly we were 40
millions a year short; and we borrowed the
money—ostensibly to pay for works in Aus-
tralia, but for the most part really to pay
interest due in London. To come out
square, and apart from other considerations,
we would therefore have to import 40
millions less or export 40 millions more,
or do some of both to the total amount of
40 millions a year.
But unfortunately there is another very
important consideration. Our staple ex-
ports have so shrunk in market value that
the quantity we sold abroad in, say, 1928,
would now be worth from 40 to 45 millions
less. This shrinkage in values and the
shocking gap it left between our purchases
and our sales are shown in these figures:—
Imports. Exports.
1926- .. £164,093,984 £133,766,596
1927- . . 146,933,929 140,403,821
1928- . . 143,299,604 141,866,297
1929- . . 130,840,475 97,980,010
Thus while our exports fell away by 44
millions last year, our imports were reduced
by less than 13 millions. It was not, how-
ever, till the year was half-way through that
we began to seriously attack our problem.
By that time it was far too late to make any
material increase in our exports of merchan-
dise; all we could do was to attack our
imports. And then, because of orders
placed and goods in transit, the figures did
not show any contraction worth mention-
ing until the last month or two of the
statistical year. The position in June com-
pared with the same month of the previous
year was as follows:
June, 1929. June, 1930.
Imports .. £12,706,487 £6,355,944
Exports . . 7,415,034 8,026,151
That showed a reduction of £6,350,543 in
imports and an increase of £611,117 in
exports—gold excluded from both com-
parisons.
July exhibited the same features. The
figures for the Commonwealth are not com-
plete; but for N. S. Wales alone there was
an improvement of £483,470 in exports and
a contraction of £2,746,545 in imports dur-
ing that month. This latter contraction was
at the rate of nearly 46 p.c.; and a similar
shrinkage over the whole Commonwealth
for the full 12 months would bring the
year’s imports down from 130 millions to
about 71 millions. What the year’s exports
will total it is much too early to say; but
with a good wool clip and a very good
wheat harvest they should be within 10
per cent, of last year’s figures, or, say, 88
millions. That would allow of a fall of
38 per cent, below the figures for 1928-29.
In other words, assuming that our exports
this year are 38 per cent, less in total value
than, those for 1928-29, the year before
the great fall, and that we can keep our
imports on the scale shown by N. S. Wales
for July, we shall have a surplus of exports
of 17 millions towards paying our public
interest bill of approximately 29 millions.
That our exports will realise the 88 mil-
lions above estimated seems reasonably cer-
tain. Wool and pastoral products should
fall very little short of last year’s figures
(49 millions); if the wheat harvest avail-
able for export (as wheat and flour) is only
equal to that of 1928-29, it should give us
nearly 19 millions on a basis of 3s. 6d. per
bushel. This would leave a little over 20
millions to be provided by metals (last year
7f millions), dried and other fruits (5 mil-
lions), butter (6§ millions), sugar (2i mil-
lions), timber (1 million), milk (1 million)
and a multitude of other lines totalling last
year over 10 millions. Whether our imports
will be restricted to 71 millions is another
matter. If Australia slips it is likely to be
in an excess of imports rather than a
deficiency of exports.
From the point of view of our foreign
trading we can say, then, that we have at
least made considerable progress. And yet
it is not progress enough. Even with our
imports at the low level reached by N. S.
Wales in July, the Commonwealth must
export at least 100 millions a year
to pay for our foreign purchases and meet
our interest bills, without taking private
investments into account. In the present
state of the markets for our staples this
figure is not in sight. That means one of
two things or some of both—a still further
contraction of imports or an increase of
production for export. Whether the total
of imports can be still further reduced
quickly and with advantage is doubtful;
that production for export can be increased
with advantage is beyond all doubt. Thus
far, however, nothing substantial is being
done in that direction. The army of un-
employed is still turned on to relief works
which for the most part will not add a
farthing to our productive wealth. Nor is
anything very substantial yet being done
towards that reduction of costs which would
more than anything else aid production.
There is one other point of view—that
of our commitments for the future, includ-
ing the raising of money abroad to pay our
interest until we have reorganised our
national life. Clearly it was this point of
view with which Sir Otto Niemeyer was
most concerned. He looked at it as any
banker would look at a customer heavily
in debt who wanted to be still carried on.
Any banker in such circumstances would
require that the customer should live within
his means, since any further deficits would
add to his liabilities without adding to the
value of his assets. That this process of
living within one’s means should involve
hardships is unfortunate; but it is inevitable.
So far as our Governments are concerned
it can be done by increasing revenue
through taxation or by reducing expendi-
ture through economies. Obviously there
is a point at which the increase of taxation
defeats itself, as every Government in Aus-
tralia now knows; and that drives them
back upon economies. If in the pursuit of
these economies better terms as to interest
can be made with our creditors, those better
terms should be sought. But before doing
anything of that kind it will be well to con-
sider the possible—even probable—conse-
quences. The debtor who pleads poverty
and his inability to pay the agreed upon
interest is liable to raise doubts about his
solvency and make trouble for himself when
the loan next comes up for renewal. The
best we can safely hope for is that favorable
terms will be available when we are driven
to ask for accommodation during the next
year or two; and as to how those favor-
able terms can be got Sir Otto Niemeyer
certainly speaks with authority, seeing that
he speaks for those who will have the
granting of them. To attempt any other
way, unpleasant as his way may be, is
simply courting disaster. And that we shall
be forced to ask assistance the figures given
above suggest only too clearly.
WE AND CANADA: A COMPARISON.
Comparisons are said to be objectionable,
but they have their uses. When a nation
is in an unprecedented mess, as Australia
is, there is some profit in setting its records
beside those of a very similar country, and
drawing inferences therefrom. It can thus
be discovered whether the mess is general
and may be blamed on world-circumstances,
or whether it is a local affair and chargeable
to local ignorance, incapacity and misman-
agement, and the value of the knowledge
thereafter will depend on the use that is
made of it.
Canada and Australia are comparable
because they are the two biggest white sec-
tions of the British Empire; they are both
run on the Federal principle; they are much
alike for density of population; and they
both spent men and money lavishly in the
Great War. They both had losses to make
good by hard work when the shindy was
over, though they hadn’t the ill-fortune, like
France, Belgium, Italy, Serbia, Russia, Aus-
tria, Roumania and other luckless com-
batants, to have the ravages of battle and
revolution to rebuild. So the most recently
available figures have an interest.
In 1928 the Federal and State revenues of
Canada were £118,165,498, which left a sur-
plus of £17,824,124. Australia, with a smaller
population, had £190,719,101 of Federal and
State revenue, and its expenditure was
£2,513,352 in excess of that—the old familiar
deficit.
In 1928 Canada reduced its Federal debt
by £10,196,827, making £31,385,327 paid off
since the total liability reached its top
figure in 1923. Australia added £6,172,584
to its Federal debt and £51,321,677 to its
total debt (Federal and State) in the same
year, the whole of this being borrowed
abroad at a steadily increasing rate of
interest. The Canadian debt, it may be
mentioned, is almost wholly a Federal
affair, the separate liability of Quebec, the
mother province, being under £12,000,000,
while N. S. Wales, with about the same
population, owes £269,000,000.
Canada in 1928 exported over £30,000,000
in excess of its imports, and that was below
the average. With this consistent surplus
it pays its foreign interest bills and reduces
its outside debts, and in the making of
these surplus goods it finds employment for
a great many people. Australia, in the
same year, imported £4,700,000 more than
it exported, which is also its pretty invari-
able habit. The figure is generally much
worse. Therefore Australia has. long been
borrowing to pay its outside interest until
the aggregate creditor, scared at a customer
who wanted more in peace-time than in
war, stopped lending. Meanwhile the Com-
monwealth accumulated a parasitical horde
who lived on loan jobs instead of being
reproductively engaged in earning foreign
interest and paying off foreign principal.
This horde now struggles to live on alms or
repudiation.
Australia wasn’t always demoralised. Pre-
vious to the war it had spells of utter
respectability. But it was the only section
of the empire which shirked compulsory
military, service, so its best citizens went
to fight the battle of freedom while
others stayed at home to reach out for
control of the Labor movement, and open
friendly negotiations with the enemy.
are still in friendly and humble negotiation
with the enemy (the one at Moscow), who
instructs them about repudiating the public
debt and other thievish tricks. And there
is still a tendency to regard the doing of
a good week’s work, instead of the smallest
week’s work among civilised white people, as
an optional matter, and, at the worst, as
a temporary and objectionable expedient.
In fact, there is still debate, which seems
likely to last a long while, whether the
ordinary rules of arithmetic apply here.
WESTRAEIA’S GAINS UNDER
FEDERATION.
The basis of the movement for secession
in Westralia is the assurance that the State
has been and always will be a heavy loser
by a luckless union with the East, and that
it should get out before its bones are picked
bare. In reality Federation has been a
blessing to Westralia, and if the big State
hasn’t gained at the cost of its neighbors,
which is always a matter of argument, it
has certainly gained much where they have
got little. The accidental circumstances of
Westralia being the biggest State and the
biggest goldfield may have given local poli-
ticians an exaggerated idea of what is due
to them; but if Federation didn’t give them
all that they think it should have done, it
hasn’t been the niggardly robber it is alleged
to be. Their State may have its griev-
ances—everybody has—but it might be as
well if it considered them in the light of
a few cold statistical facts.
Population is one test of prosperity, and
in this respect Westralia under the Com-
monwealth holds this record:—
Increase of Population— l9ol-29.
Westralia .. 131 p.c. J Victoria .. 484 p.c.
Queensland . . 88i „ | Tasmania .. 26 „
N. S. Wales . . 82 „ | N. Territory .. Decrease
S. Australia. . 621 » I
That is at least comforting, but even it
isn’t the best feature of the case. The
last day of disunion and freedom found
Westralia, despite its area and possibilities,
amazingly backward in an agricultural
sense, and under the Federal regime that
misfortune was promptly taken in hand.
These were the results:-
I'Nckease op Cultivates Area—l9ol-29.
Westralia . . 1748 p.c. |S. Australia . . 76 p.c.
Queensland . . 133 „ j Victoria . . 59 „
N. S. Wales . . 104 „ | Tasmania .. 33 „
It might be offensive to say that the influx
of new blood from the East was the cause
of this rising from the dead, but the influx
certainly canie and the rising certainly
happened. The growth of agriculture was
so vastly in excess of the growth of popu-
lation that the people of the big State
seem to have been more enterprising in
1929 than in 1901, as well as more numer-
ous. And in the pastoral business there was
another rising, though a less sensational
one. Westralia owned about 4 per cent,
of the Commonwealth’s sheep and cattle
in 1901 and well over 8 per cent, in 1929,
so the increase was twice as rapid as that
of its neighbors. And the manufacturing
population grew by 111 per cent., which
wasn’t in excess of the average but was
almost level with it. No State can reason-
ably hope to lead the way in everything.
The troubles of the States are the same,
though they vary in intensity. Prices of
produce have fallen, and Westralia grows
more than its share of produce, especially
wheat, wherefore it experienced a large share
of the fall. Also the supply of loan money
gave out; and as Westralia borrowed more
than twice as much in proportion to its
population as the average of the six States,
it suffered from more stoppage than any-
body else. A Tasmanian family of five
had £8 a year less to spend when borrow-
ing ceased, while a Westralian family of
the same size had £54 less. That was
Westralia’s own doing; and it is more than
unreasonable, it is childish, to blame the
State’s neighbors for the consequences.
The people of the West pay remarkably
little in State taxation, and have always
contrived to do so since Federation com-
menced. These are the State tax figures
per inhabitant for 1927-28, given on page
383 of the Federal “Official Year Book”
for 1929, and they are instructive:—
Westralia ..£3 17 1 Queensland ..£5 19 6
Victoria . . 4 2 3 S. Australia . . 610 2
N. S. Wales.. 5 18 Average of six
Tasmania . . 5 5 1 States .. 5 0 1
The most obvious reason why Westralia
can' take life thus easily and lazily is its
luck in extracting benefactions, including
the great East-to-West Railway grant, from
the Commonwealth at the expense of its
more burdened neighbors.
A great number of Westralian politicians
are running the secession campaign, and a
great number of citizens attend their meet-
ings and cheer lustily. Many of the citi-
zens act in good faith and through ignor-
ance. The politicians probably find a
reverberating battle-cry for the elections
in the promise of a new heaven and a new
earth if Australia is broken up. The same
brilliant but hypothetical result might be
achieved if the empire was broken up.
South Australia a.nd Tasmania are urged
to join in the movement on the plea that
the three are sisters in adversity, but the
two Lean Sisters have so far given no defi-
nite assent, and the State Premier at Perth
remains the one secessionist Premier of
Australia and the leader of the one seces-
sionist Ministry. Possibly the Lean Sisters
have doubts about the disinterestedness of
those who profess to speak for Fatter
Sister. The overwhelming argument put
before them by Fatter Sister is that it
costs much more, including railway fares
and interest on debt, to run Westralia than
it did in 1900, wherefore Federation, which
happened in 1901, must cause the increase,
and if it was abolished the difference would
vanish. • But, then, it costs five times as
much to run Maoriland as it did before
Australia federated, and Maoriland kept
strictly aloof from the movement. The
same sort of thing has happened to many
countries. It seems, in fact, to be hap-
pening all over the world.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Australia’s War Debt to Britain.
Scullin is being violently, though not
quite officially, entrusted with an ex-
penditure-reducing mission abroad. He
is informed that he must make' it his
business to see somebody on the
other side, and negotiate a reduction of
interest all round, and a reduction of prin-
cipal and interest on the British war debt.
Australia owes some 92 millions of war debt
in Britain, of which 81 millions is to the
British Government, money advanced for
the support of Australian troops during the
war; and the creditor might reduce his bill
somewhat if dunned, while regarding the
applicant as a hardy mendicant for his
pains. As regards the other 500 millions
due by us overseas, the British Govern-
ment is likely to tell any envoy with an
ad misericordiam appeal that it will neither
contribute to the interest nor force the
bondholders to make a sacrifice. The case
is one in which every man must be his own
robber. A considerable discount was
allowed on the war debt when the settle-
ment was arrived at, and the interest on
what remains (at 5 per cent.) is £4,647,992
per annum. If the rate on the portion of
the debt owing to the British Government
was reduced to 3 J per cent, the saving would
be about £1,215,000, and if the whole oversea
war account was wiped out as an act of


GETTING DOWN TO IT.
“The policy of the Inner Group at N. S. Wales Trades Hall is to carry on at existing wage-rates and hope for better times.”— Daily -paper.
“Australia will recover-but only by getting down to it.” -Sir Otto Niemeyer.
THE OWNER: “Well, I’m blowed if I think this scrub and pear will ever clear itself; so here goes!"
charity the relief would be perceptible but
not much more. Yet certain loud-talking
and. non-working sections of the community
have built up an impression that this burden
is the cause of all Australia’s troubles.
Canada, in addition to finding men, put
£250,000,000 more of its own money into the
expensive row than the Commonwealth did,
and it lent many millions to Britain and
its allies in place of being a burden on
the Old Man. It toiled stupendously in
those troubled days. Maoriland and South
Africa both found more money than Aus-
tralia in proportion to their white popula-
tion, and the former sent away a consider-
ably larger proportion of its manhood. It
is regrettable that Australia, should stand
alone in making a grievance about its finan-
cial part in the business 11 years after it is
finished, especially as there is so little at
stake, and more especially as the agitation
is so largely worked up by rowdy and revo-
lutionary characters who are non-Australian
by birth or sentiment or both.
♦ '
Bavinshaw Goes to the Country.
T . « ,
The N. S. Wales Bavmshaw Government
has abandoned its intention of holding a
financial session before it faces the people,
and will go to the country next month,
It has also abandoned the Second Chamber
referendum. It proposes to fight the elec-
tion on the Budget-balancing arrangement
entered into by the State Premiers and
Federal Ministers Fenton, and Lyons at the
Melbourne conference. The N. S. Wales
Labor executive has denounced that arrange-
ment, the N. S. Wales Federal Labor
members are meekly obeying its commands,
and the Sydney Labor Council has gone still
further and raised the cry of repudiation, ihe
Bavinshaws see in this confusion a Heaven-
sent opportunity to divide and conquer.
Good tactics, no doubt; and yet it is not
going to be a mere military promenade for
the Ministerial parties. Solid or disunited,
Red or Pink, Labor is never easy to beat.
And there is no getting away .from the
fact that Lang has a great following. Put
Lang in,” thousands of honest working
people say, “and he will give us back all
that we have lost.” They would be cruelly
deceived, of course; nevertheless, the be-
lief that the man is a Great Democrat who
has an alchemy that will restore the boom
days is widely held. On the other hand,
nobody has any illusions about the .Nation-
aliSts, who confessedly knew how to arrest
the drift, but lacked the courage to apply
their knowledge until the crisis came. Ihe
party could have won the election three years
ago without competing. with the other side
in the offering of political bribes, instead,
they made lavish promises, which ciTcum-
stances have forced them to break, and
that is going to tell against them.
The Nationalists may win again; but
their win will be profitless to the country
unless they are honest with it. Let them
expound the plain facts of the situation
and leave the political walnut-shell and
peas to Lang. Let them state firmly that the
days of loan-fed affluence are gone; that
the basic-wage and child-endowment busi-
ness will have to go; that everyone will
have to make sacrifices, and they will start
with the politicians by reducing Assembly-
men’s pay to three guineas a sitting; that
instead of trying to make Government jobs
for all and sundry they will strive to estab-
lish conditions which will admit of all and
sundry finding jobs for themselves. the
Nationalists have never shown the coinage
of their convictions; never told the people
the whole truth. It is high time to begin.
The Basic Wa»e.
s
Among the economies which can be made
w £ tb great advantage to the community is
one tbat w jjj re i ease f or other work two-
of the gentlemen who now make a
pre £ ence G f fixing wages and conditions.
g evera i G f the gentlemen, notably Mr.
piddington, of N. S. Wales, have been
nat i ona l calamities; and they are still where
t hey can continue to be national calamities,
]yj; ore than all other agencies put together
these benevolent asses have been responsible
£ Ol , the widespread idea that pay can be
fj xe( j without regard to production or earn-
£ngg. hence the basic wage, which is gov-
ei,ned no t by what the workman earns but
by what somebody or other believes he
needs in the Way, among other things, of
silk shirts and picture-shows.
Many of those who attack the system
which has prevailed declare that the people
haye been nQ better off than they would
bave been without these courts and tri-
bunajs an( j committees. The Bulletin
no t agree with them. It believes that,
wb jj e tbe WO rking man has been no happier,
bg bag g nanc i a n y benefited enormously from
£ bege bodies. One thing is dead certain,
g ome body 0 dy has divided approximately 40
m gg ons a year which nobody earned; and
The Bullexin canno t see anyone who was
gQ likely tQ bave got tb i s mon ey as Mr.
pjggjngton’g basic wage-earners—people
wboge wa ges were avowedly fixed not on
£ beb . eammgs but on their supposed needs,
j£ £g a £ - g gQ —££ jjgg an g every other basic
wage £ n Australia was maintained at the
expense of those future' generations which
w - p bave to pay interest on the 40 millions
a year anc £.i n the end find the principal—
tbgn w^b £ be stoppage of these millions it
£ g obv i ous that we must revise our ideas
about t he basic wage. Hitherto, with a
m g cb cow w hich could be drawn upon, it
no £ seem to matter whether a man
earnec [ jg s wa ge or not. With the milch
CQW mn g r y ; g does matter. Indeed, there
- g o tb er W ay by which a man can now
big wage except by earning it. There
wilJ gtill be a certa i n 'amount of work for
arbitration an d conciliation boards. But it
gbou j b be con fi ne d to the settlement of
actual an g not manufactured disputes, and
should only be available in the last
regorb pi rs t ; however, the basic wage must
£ g £ be suprem e offence against all eco-
nomic j awg . p. more tban anything else has
been respons ible for “slowing down” and for
tbat i ncrease i n cos t of production which has
tbrown thousands of men and women out
0 £ employment during the past six months.
+
Inflated Property Values.
A North Queenslander told his Parliament
the other day about a land at Babmda,
in his district, An agent brought an Italian
to the owner, who wanted to sell. Ihe
Italian had no money, but the owner was
willing to lend the agent £2OOO if the agent
was willing to lend it to the Italian to
pay a deposit. So a deal was made on
those lines, the purchase-price being fixed
at £35,000. The owner lent to the agent at
6 p.c. and the agent passed the loan on to
the purchaser at 12 p.c.; and seeing that he
has to pay presumably 6 p.c. on the unpaid
balance, it looks hardly possible that the
Italian can pull through. Still he has
nothing to lose; and something may turn
up which will enable him to win.
Exactly the same thing has happened
again and again in Maoriland; one im-
portant farm agency confessed some time
ago that it had sold scores of properties to
men who had no more than enough to pay
the commission on the sale.
Now it is quite evident that a buyer under
such conditions is in no position to drive
a bargain. And he may be little disposed
to. He is not an investor; he is a gambler.
If he can pay £30,000 he can pay £35,000.
To a man with nothing there seems too
little difference between the two to argue
about. Yet it is such sales that fix the
price of land in the neighborhood; and it
is on such prices that banks, etc., make their
advances. This is one of the causes of our
inflation; it is one of the causes, too, why
our costs of production and distribution are
so high, and why so many men—and women
—find farming such a drudgery. They wear
out their lives paying interest on fictitious
values.
Something ought to be done about it; for,
though it is too late to save ourselves from
the effects of our past folly, it is not too
late to stop future folly. In fact, in our
contrite frame of mind, it may soon be
easier than usual to get remedies adopted.
No formula for arriving at the value of
real property can be universally employed.
But at least it can be made law that no real
property shall be transferred on which a
deposit of less than, say, one-tenth of the
value is paid, the purchaser making a
declaration that this deposit is bona fide
his money. Of course such a law would
have the effect of preventing some pur-
chases. It is intended to. But that can
be put up with for the sake of the sub-
stantial prevention of inflated values.
—4
Piece-work Possibilities.
Lawrence Ennis, who has been supervising
the construction of Sydney’s Harbor Bridge,
said things the other day which are worth
the attention of every Australian industrial
worker—it is too much to hope that, though
backed as they are by world-wide experi-
ence, they will influence that small coterie
of professional despots who perennially
steer their unions into the breakers
and the country in consequence to the
verge of financial and industrial disaster.
This renowned engineer, in speaking of
the high efficiency of the workmen who
have built the bridge, asked what was to
become of the great army when the job
was completed. He wanted to know, too,
what use would there be for the great
North Shore workshops, with their com-
plement of modern and, in some cases,
unique machinery, if the modern Australian
obsession of working on a flat rate were
adhered to. This system, added to the
prevalent theory that a slow rate of produc-
tion means increased employment, not only
in steel but in other industries, makes
Australian costs of production the highest
in the world. Working under it there
could be no competition with the products
of other countries employing piece-work
systems, while Australia itself was, as yet,
unable to supply a home market capable of
keeping the wheels going.
Ennis’s solution of the problem is a re-
turn to the method of payment by results,
almost universal in America and Europe.
This would enable Australia to compete
in her natural market, Eastern Asia, for
those construction works which are always
in progress in that quarter. A large export
trade is possible here if output is increased
with the natural result of lower costs.
There is no sane reason for the refusal
to adopt payment by results in most Aus-
tralian industries. Two of the most import-
ant of them, shearing and coal-winning, pay
their leading workers .in this fashion, and
few members of the industrial world are
better rewarded under normal conditions.
Many other unions would, without doubt,
be glad to adopt the piece-work system but
for the vociferous minority which, because
it is either unable or unwilling to turn
out fast and good work, does not intend to
let its more capable brethren outshine it.
It is this class which backs the union boss
in his antagonism to the piece-work prin-
ciple. The good piece-worker is apt to be
affluent and independent. These are con-
ditions not desired by union leaders. Sub-
serviency and mob consciousness are essen-
tial parts of their system, and with the
flat-wage rate, coupled with the go-slow
policy and the “darg,” they have attained
a considerable amount of success from
their own point of view, however disastrous
the consequences to Australia.
♦
Protecting Property Equities.
If the amount of forced selling of shares
on the Stock Exchanges last week can be
taken as a guide, there must be a great
deal of strain at present in the real-estate
business. And not only on the speculative
side; many genuine purchasers of homes on
terms are up against a difficult situation
owing to unemployment and the scarcity of
mortgage money at reasonable rates of
interest. Foreclosures by mortgagees, with
“selling-up,” make the position worse for
all concerned, for the more forced sales there
are the more there are likely to be, owing
to falling values and the contraction in
security margins which must follow compul-
sory unloading in an already lifeless market.
At a meeting of estate agents, bankers,
financiers, etc., in Sydney the other day,
A. S. Henry, a solicitor, recommended the
creation of a Court of Review to protect
both the mortgagor and the mortgagee, in
preference to an official moratorium. Such
a Court could also deal with cases where
a person’s equity in a hire-purchase agree-
ment or bill of sale was in danger of being
sacrificed. By this means total loss of
equities might be avoided, and property
values more or less stabilised.
The sooner some such action is taken the
better, particularly for the protection of
home-purchasers. The speculative builder
usually runs pretty close to the financial
wind, and when his creditors begin to press
him he is in no position to extend any
leniency to the man who bought a house
from him on terms, and who, very prob-
ably, is now on a reduced income, Or per-
haps has no income at all. There is an-
other even more unpleasant aspect, of
course—a vendor might conceivably take
advantage of a default in payment owing to
hardship to retake possession of the prop-
erty. These things must be guarded against
wherever they reasonably can be.


MILD . GOOD
&
m
m
F»LJ R E TOBACCO
some things
-jQan't be
irrtpfoved
~v.
?»/4
POLITICAL
POINTS
The discovery that there was a big deficit
for the first two months of the financial
year, and that the position in the States was
relatively as bad or Avorse, put the wind up
Federal Ministers last week. Being humane
men, they were also distressed at reports
of bitter hardships suffered by people not
provided for under the shiftless State unem-
ployment-relief schemes, leading to suicide in
heartrending cases, while Sydney Labor oppo-
sition to financial reform and Communist
outbreaks at Port Adelaide and Port Mel-
bourne added to their perturbation. Cabinet
discussed the situation for two days at Mel-
bourne, Robert Gibson, of the Common-
AA r ealth Bank, being again called in. It was
decided that Parliament should be asked,
next month or early in November, to sanc-
tion a cut in Parliamentary and Civil Service
salaries, and proposals for taxing interest
and slugging property income again and
“granting Government assistance to poten-
tially productive industries which are at
present languishing” were favorably re-
ceived.
The suggested tax on interest is attributed
to Daly, the Adelaide lawyer and leader of
the Senate. That young man, like Curtin,
from Fremantle, has made a reputation in
his first Parliament, and in the working out
of his interest tax he may increase it—or
lose it. Interest on mortgages, overdrafts,
bills of sale and the like is already taxed by
both CommonAvealth and States, and a double
tax would do immeasurably more harm than
good. Interest on Government securities: is
taxed by the Commonwealth but (except in
a few instances) not by the States. A long
succession of loans has been issued on the
express understanding (the reason for it is
one of the mysteries of Australian finance)
that the interest would be tax-free as far as
the States are concerned. One way out of
the difficulty thus created would be the
immediate transfer of income taxation from
the States to the Commonwealth. It is also
the obvious way out of the existing chaos
of income and unemployment taxes, the very
uncertainty of which is stifling enterprise.
There is not a taxpayer in Australia who
knows what he will be charged until his
assessments are in liis hands next year.
It. is expected that Germany will be aiiother
applicant for a moratorium at an early date ;
its notion is that payment of one or two
instalments of Avar indemnity should be post-
poned. The CommonAvealth receives indem-
FRITZ: “Moradorium, hein -I’m geddin' in
first!”
nity money (it got £876,000 in 1928-29),
and Fritz’s little donation helps to explain
how our war debt in London has been
reduced a bit.
Income-tax returns for the current finan-
cial year are all in. The State Parliaments
are all in session. The Taxation Commis-
sioners could be gathered together in a feAv
days. It could be arranged within a month,
or at most six weeks, for the Commonwealth
to levy one simple and all-embracing income
tax, payable in two instalments, the proceeds
to be shared with the States, having due
regard to the amounts collected within their
boundaries and the necessities of the weaker
partners—South Australia, for instance.
This would enable people to know what they
would have to pay and lay their plans
accordingly, and it would strike at a large
class of dodgei'S, notably those Avho spread
investments so as to avoid State tax, wholly
or in part. Also, it would do away with such
rank swindles as imposing N.S.W. unem-
ployment tax on income derived from Vic-
toria and Queensland. It is a time for swift
and bold decisions, and here is one Avhich
would be a tremendous advantage to Aus-
tralia.
For the first two months of the financial
year the Queensland deficit was £218,615,
compared with £42,413 for the same period
last year. The Moore Government is reduc-
ing Parliamentary and Civil Service salaries,
superannuating aged railwaymen, closing un-
payable lines (four for a start) and lowering
the income-tax exemption from £250 to £l5O.
And, being anxious to revive goldmining, it
is removing that moribund industry from
the operation of the industrial arbitration
law, though it Avouid cheerfully scrap this
expedient if the Commonwealth Government
came to light with a bonus.
Queensland Treasurer Barnes
gets some remarkable advice from
the crowd that ran Queensland for
14 years and bought cattle sta-
tions and copper-mines and things,
shoving up the State debt from
£56,800,000 in 1915 to £113,300,000
in 1929. “Don’t listen to the
Money PoAver,” roared an exuber-
ant Labor member named Pease.
“Go doAvn to the Loan Council and
talk to them as Disraeli talked to
the Bank of England! We want
a man like Disraeli, who fought
the Bank of England and forced it
to climb down.” History makes
no mention of this Disraelian exploit,
though there is an absurd “pit-
cher” in which a pawnshop Dizzy
is represented as saying to tile
Montague Norman of the period
(pictured as an idiotic old Hodge)
that he \yould smash the Bank of
England if that institution did not
furnish the wherewithal for the
purchase of the Suez Canal shares,
endangered by a preposterous Rus-
sian plot. The Labor gentleman
has obviously seen the “pitcher”
and taken it for gospel truth !
Labor has at last got a direct
representatUe on the board of the
Commonwealth Bank, and, though
the principle is quite wrong, in
the circumstances the inclusion of
M. B. Duffy should do much more
good than harm—not because of
the knowledge he will take from
Trades Hall to board-room, but
because of what he will be able to take from
board-room to Trades Hall. Yet the directors
no doubt will be glad to get the Labor idea.
One of them, at any rate, is so eager to
know every point of view that he is a fre-
quent visitor to the Sydney Domain on Sun-
day afternoons.
The Hogans claim that since unemploy-
ment relief work was begun in June, after
the enactment of the special taxes, 17,000
Victorians have been employed—for a time.
The number includes those who are putting
in two days a week for the municipalities.
This sort of relief is rather like patching
a boat, holed below water-line, by tacking
canvas across the puncture.
In 1918-19 the bill for the seven Parlia-
ments came to £436,000, Ministers’ salaries
and electoral expenditure excluded. In
1928-29 it had shot up to £795,000, though
Queensland’s Upper House had disappeared
in the meantime; pay of Lower House
members alone increased from £162,000 to
£261,500. Salary reduction has now been
accepted in principle by the Commonwealth
and all the States, but there will be no
“Back to 1918-19” movement unless the
public insists on it.
“Who’s for Hughes?” shouted one of the
speakers at the Australian party “conven-
tion” in Melbourne. “Hughes for Hughes,”
came an echo from the middle of the hall.
The bright suggestion has been made that
Dorman, Long and Co. should go ahead “with
the Sydney Harbor bridge, and give
indefinite tick for the rest of the money,
receiving interest “at the ruling rate.” In
other words, that they should take bonds.
But if they couldn’t afford to keep all that
capital locked up indefinitely they would
want to sell the bonds —in' England, of
course, for here they would only fetch local
paper. And it is hard to say what would
be “the ruling rate” in gold in the Old Man’s
Country for N.S.W. securities payable at no
definite date, and with so many tax possibili-
ties involved.
Australia has a large interest in Nauru,
but unfortunately it doesn’t follow Nauruan
methods of finance. These figures are from
the 1929 Budget of the speck in the Central
Pacific: —
Revenue, £19,926 ; expenditure, £9159. Imports,
£101,691; exports, £346,052. National debt, nil;
non-recoverable grants, nil.
If it wasn’t for the leprosy it would be a
happy land.
Satisfied that the renewal of the water-
side war at Port Adelaide, together with
“sympathetic” striking, was the work of
Communists directed from Sydney, the State
Labor Government brought in a Public
Safety Bill designed to deal with “mass
picketing” and other Communist manoeuvres.
The measure was passed, as drafted, in one
day, except for a clause authorising the
Government or the Harbor Board to become
a boss stevedore itself —to that the Leg.
Council objected. Richards, the Commis-
sioner of Lands, said that Ministers’ lives
had been threatened; and, among other
basher-gang pleasantries, high-voltage lines
have been tampered with so that unsuspect-
ing policemen might put their hands on live
wires.
The view of the Sydney Labor Council is
apparently that the debt owing to people
abroad and the debt (almost equally large)
due to our own people should be slaugh-
tered indiscriminately. That is in strict
accordance with instructions from Moscow.
LABOR STALWART (to perplexed Treasurer ): “That’s
how YOU ought to talk to them banker blokes.”
But it must occur some day to even the
most intense imported Garden that the local
debt is a national affair in which almost
everybody except the park dosser has an
interest. It is held to an enormous extent
by life-insurance offices and other institu-
tions which belong to the people, and it isn’t
worth while to smash them just for the
sake of variety. Therefore it will probably
be decided to amend the programme for the
sake of votes, and say that repudiation is
for foreign consumption only.
The Hogans are at work on a retrench-
ment scheme designed to balance the Vic.
Budget; the difficulty will be to get the out-
and-outers to agree to it. An argument that
may appeal to these gentry is that, with the
loan market closed, it will be necessary to
keep in office so as to increase the unem-
ployment (income and stamp-duty) taxes.
It is not likely that any other imposts will
be proposed ; to do so would cause a dead-
lock between the Houses.
Unless there is an investigation, it is
impossible to say how the loss on Queens-
land’s State cattle stations was arrived at.
Premier Moore says the thieves may rest in
peace, for he can’t afford the gigantic re-
search. The alleged object of the huge
public bullock investment, like that of other
tricks, was to promote the wealth, health,
contentment and progress of the people, and
to show that the capitalist is a back number.
Queensland owes the capitalist nearly
£2,000,000 more as the price of the experi-
ment.
The Farmers’ Relief (Partial Moratorium)
Bill was revived in Vic. Leg. Council after
three months in the casualty ward. On the
second night of debate it received another
nasty knock, and is again in a state of sus-
pended animation.
Minister Blakeley woke up the dead past
by explaining that “the question of construct-
ing a railway from Daly Waters (N. Aus.)
to Camooweal (Q.) has again been considered
by the Ministry,” and postponed for lack of
funds. There is no such question, except in
the imagination of persistent logrollers. The
obligation of the Commonwealth is to finish
the Federal railway across Australia, which
extends from Darwin to Daly Waters in the
north, and from Port Augusta to Alice
Springs in the south; another 560 miles
would finish it and open a way through half
a million square miles of national property.
The alternative proposition is to abandon or
postpone this work in favor of a line of
about the same length, which would quit
Federal territory and enter State territory,
and be of no particular value to the Queens-
land mining fields which lie on the way
and do their business with Townsville.
The Vic. railway deficit of £1,036,996 is
the worst the State has ever had. Clapp and
Co. recommend that £15,000,000 of loan
capital should be written off to relieve the
strain on “the present-day users of the rail-
ways,” and the interest charged to “the
community in general.” But the users of the
railways and the community in general are
so much alike that the transfer would matter
little. If the users of the railways trans-
ferred the whole debt to the community in
general, and kept the lines with no liability
at all, that might not matter either, and
it would be much the same if the position
were reversed. The right thing for Victoria
to do is to -transfer the whole property, for
safety, to someone who is neither the users
nor the community, thus putting everything
in its wife’s name, so to speak. After that
the public debt ought to be sold even at a
sacrifice, and the entire muss cleaned up.
Kalgoorlie at the moment is the most
thriving inland town in Australia. There
is even a house famine. Yet the present
revival is nothing to what a gold bonus
would produce; with that stimulus there
would be an immense reworking of Golden
Mile lodes which it doesn’t now pay to mine,
together with a reopening of shows through-
out the back country. The Commonwealth
Government ought to consider the gold bonus
again before the special session next month,
more especially as it has undertaken to find
£lOO,OOO for the relief of unemployed miners
in N. S. Wales. The bonus would at least
give people the feeling that the country was
getting something for their tax-money; fully
90 p.c. of what they are paying now in
unemployment-relief taxes is being wasted
op footling jobs like levelling sandhills and
pottering about footpaths.
Richards, Minister of Mines in S.A.,
lias obtained Federal approval for the
spending of £5OOO on unemployment relief
of a practical sort, by opening up
the copper lodes of Moonta, formerly famous
for over half a century. A local prospect-
ing syndicate will find all other cash needed;
and the local A.W.U. has made a bargain
for moderate wages plus 40 per cent, of any
profits. Work has already been started.
The position of the N.S.W. Labor party
in Parliament and its Slangwliang leader
is difficult. The Labor executive threatens
to put its cumulative curse and decree of
expulsion on members and candidates who
don’t declare against the agreement arrived
at by the States and the Commonwealth to
put things on a solvent basis. The advance
guard hates a solvent basis as a hindrance
to revolutionary measures of which repudia-
tion is among the chief. In the fewest words,
every politician must be Red or be declared
black. And the unfortunate Slangwhangers
A new sort of Rouge et Noir.
know they have hardly a prospect of success
on election day if they turn uncompromisingly
Red, and a very poor prospect if they are
declared black.
Representatives of the Council of Trade-
Unions sought out Otto Niemeyer before
he left Australia, and told him that they
bitterly resented any cut in wages or reduc-
tion in the “standard of living.’’ Instead
they demanded ' a reduction of interest on
bank deposits and on overdrafts. It is hard
to say what would be the gain to unionists
if the savings banks paid less interest on
their £213,000,000 of deposits, which are
divided into poor men’s lots of £42 each,
but doubtless the gentlemen had some idea at
the backs of their minds. A reduction of
interest on the external public debt —already
a good deal lower than the rate on the Aus-
tralian part of the debt —was also requested.
Sir Otto has no more control (over
interest on bank deposits or on public debts
or on Australian wages than the gentleman'
in the moon, but instead of pointing this out
he gave some perfunctory advice about talk-
ing matters over with the employers.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Rosie”: It was at a Hielan’ gathering
that I fell into talk with a grand old Scotty
with a wonderful beard. “A’ve bin oot fra
Scutlan’ sae lang A’ve lost ma accent and
speak English the noo,” he told me. Then
a flock of sparrows invaded the lunch tables
and provided a new topic. Donald pricked
up his ears. “Yon mannie is no’ lang
oot fra hame,” he whispered to me, jerk-
ing his thumb to indicate the subject of
his remark. “Did ye no’ notice the way he
said bur-r-r-r-r-ds for bur-r-r-ds?”
* * * *
“Fernie”: A man without a country has
been adding to the grey hairs of the officials
who issue passports in M.L. The
first thing you have to disclose
on a passport is your nationality,
and this chap has none. His
grandfather was a German who
migrated to Holland and became
a naturalised Dutchman. The
passport seeker’s father, brought
up as a Dutch citizen, went off to
Italy to fight with Garibaldi, and
the Dutch Government promptly
denaturalised him for his contu-
macy. He went to Switzerland,
married a French girl, and spent
the remaining years of his life
in France and Spain, where his
son was educated. The son has
for years knocked around the
islands of the Pacific, and has
taken to himself a native wife.
As neither he nor his father had
taken cut. naturalisation papers
in any of the various countries
in which they resided, and as the
applicant for a passport wasn’t
qualified to apply for naturalisa-
tion in the Dominion, and as it
would have been expensive as well
as unjust to deport a very inoffen-
sive person as an undesirable
alien, there was a great
searching of precedents and a
racking of the brains of Crown
Law officers. The outcome is
still uncertain, but if the gentle-
man goes on his unnaturalised
way the question as to the
nationality of his progeny will
be one* that could only be adjudicated upon,
one would think, by the League of Nations.
* * *
“P.N.”: Frank Anstey, leader of the
Federal Cabinet group which refuses to
swallow Sir Otto Niemeyer’s medicine and
would like to take a fall out of him as repre-
sentative of British capital, is the softest-
lic-arted insurrectionist in the world. It
isn’t Anstey’s fault that when you say
“British capital” he sees a cruel monster
whose claws want clipping. Frank was
born in England at a time when conditions
were very bad, and for the Anstey family
very bad indeed; one of his earliest
recollections is of the whole family on the
tramp, in cold and mud, and of camping
under hedges. So bitterness entered the
soul of the boy, and he has never got rid of
it; rather has it been added to by the man’s
affection for his mother. As an instance of
that affection, many years later, when he
was a member of the House of Representa-
tives, he wanted to see her and she wanted
to see him once more. Anstey’s soft heart
has always kept his pockets empty. But
that didn’t stop him. While other members
were kicking around, Frank, who years
before had been a sailor, shipped before the
mast and worked his way to an English
port. All this doesn’t make him an econo-
mist. But it gives him an excuse for some
of his wild views which Australians haven’t
got.
* * * *
“Clarence Cafeteria”: Touching the dan-
ger of helping the out-of-work. A butcher
charged with failing to close his shop at the
Prahran (Yic.) market at 12.30 on Saturday
afternoons said: “On Saturday afternoons
I am mercenary up till half-past 12 o'clock,
and from then on my business is a charity.
Each week I buy 50 sheep which I give to
the unemployed, and I receive absolutely no
return for them.” The Bench fined him
155., in default distress.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Erua”: Our typist arrived the other
morning in a new lilack rabbit coat. She
turned round several times for our inspection
and admiration, and there was some eon-
OLD MASTER SPOILED.
WILLIAM: “She looks just like an old picture.”
MRS. W.: "M’yes. Rather badly restored, don’t you think?”
gratulatory comment on her financial status.
“Oh, I didn’t pay for it,” she said. “It was
the twins. Mum said that as I’d have to
mind them a good bit at night when she is
shopping or at the pictures it was only fair
to give me the baby bonus.”
* * * *
“CO2” : A curious ending is reported from
Queensland. Someone noted that a car
parked by the roadside had been there for 12
hours, and that the man inside the. sedan
appeared to be still asleep. Investigation
showed that he was dead. The engine was
still running gently, and a rubber tube had
been connected at one end with the exhaust,
the other opening into the tightly-closed car,
the fumes from which nearly knocked out
the man who opened the door. On the face
of it, it looks like suicide, but there is ait
Edgar Wallace touch about the whole busi-
ness.
* * * #
“Nakh.”: The aeroplane seems to have
almost killed the pastime of
kite-flying in Australia. You need to
go to Java to see it in its glory.
Of an evening the Aloong-aloong, or
public square, of the village will be alive
with earnest devotees, many of them old
men. The kites vary in size, from graceful
imitations of butterflies to giants eight feet
from tip to toe. The swangan, or singing
kite, has a thin piece of board attached
which sets up a hum than can be heard for
miles around. A number of them, each
giving out a-slightly different note, make a
most impressive orchestra. The palembang
and Icunchir are the fighters. The string is
mixed with glass a few feet from where it
is fastened to the frame, and the game is
to manoeuvre your own machine so that it
will cut. the string of your opponent’s.
* * * *
“X.S.” : The visit of Amy Johnson seems
to have stimulated the latent Amazonianism in
Yic. Recently five women, only one of whom
was armed, assisted their husbands to make
things warm for four burglars. While the
male members of the party went into the
house which was being burgled, the ladies
waited resolutely in the dark outside. The
first man who emerged escaped a poker
levelled at his head by announcing that he
was a friend. But his respite was short-
lived. Enraged at being fooled by such a
transparent ruse, the poker-wielding female
pursued him and spread him out as he was
about to mount a fence. In the mean-
time a second skirted warrior was hang-
ing on to the coat-tails of another thug.
The fabric parted, but, though unarmed, the
intrepid dame chased the refugee down the
street. All the ladies were extremely modest
about their part in the affair.
* * *
“Med” : Under the heading “Spank Her!
Wife Likes It,” Sydney “Sun” recently pub-
lished a letter in its Dorothy Dix series.
It was signed “Spoiled Girl,” and contained
such passages as “I have had more spank-
ings than I can count”; “I was spanked
yesterday for spending half of the house-
keeping money for an evening dress”; “my
husband once tried tenderness with me, and
it did not work, so he turned me across his
knee and gave me an awful spanking” ; “I
love a husband who has the courage to make
me behave myself.” Miss Dix agreed: “I
have always been an earnest and an ardent
advocate of spanking.” And so on. It may
be said that the Dix communications have
no local significance, being U.S.A. syndi-
cated matter, but Sydney “News” published
dozens of letters on the same subject a few
weeks ago. The writers frankly revelled in
the thought of spanking, or being spanked.
How many readers —how many editors, for
that matter? —realise, that they are here .in
the presence of a clearly-marked sex-perver-
sion? If “Spoiled Girl” exists she is a
masochist. If, as is more probable,: she is
a fake, then her American creator is pander-
ing to flagellants whose numbers in any
given community may be estimated by the
interest taken locally in the undoubtedly
genuine I‘News” letters. In European coun-
tries where nudity is regarded with indiffer-
once, anything tending to encourage flagel-
lation is rigidly censored, the reason being
that habitual spankers are always liable to
develop into the psychopathic subject who
was the central figure of Zola’s “La Bete
C lumane.”
* * * *
“Firing Party” : It has been the popular
impression that the death penalty for mili-
tary crimes did not exist in the Australian
Military Forces or the A.I.F. As a matter
of fact it did, though it was never put into
force. The last vestige of it has been wiped
off by the formal abolition of the death
penalty for desertion to the enemy—rthc
gravest of all military crimes—under an
Australian Army order issued last month
which provides penal servitude as a sub-
stitute. The order follows on the lines of
the amendment of the British Army Act to
the same effect in April last. An amendment
of the Defence Act will be necessary to give
the order, which seems to have been a camou-
flaged Ministerial proclamation, legal
authority.
He Hs 4*
“C.A.8.”: Told of a recently-deceased
police magistrate, who was a stern autocrat
on the Bench but a kindly soul off it, and
whose favorite relaxation w r as a day at the
races, that he once directed the issue of a
prohibition, order against a man with several
convictions for drunkenness against him.
and warned the offender that his next lapse
would mean a stiff term of imprisonment.
A few days later, wdiile on the race-
course, the Major (he was always a
stickler for his military title) was told
of a good thing by a bystander he could not
remember to have met before, and backed
it at long odds. Encountering the tipster
later, he invited him to have a drink. “But,”
began the other. “No buts,” said the magis-
trate insistently; “come along.” They had
a whisky together; it wasn’t till some days
•afterwards that the Major learned he had
shouted for the very man he had bound
over not to touch liquor for six months.
* * * *
“Sea Nomad” : Outback camps occasion-
ally, tell a grisly tale. Last month George
Haliwood, prospecting near the antimony
mines along the lonely Mitchell, grew curious
as to a weather-beaten saddle outside a
humpy door. He pushed in and found a
skeleton lying on the floor garbed in decayed
dungarees, with a rusty gun lying by its
side. The Mt. Molloy police went out to
investigate, but it is unlikely they found
any clue to the cause of death, which may
have been starvation, suicide or murder.
Many dead men have been found that way
in lonely places, not always with a gun for
company either. Several skeletons were
dug up some while ago in a guano deposit on
lonely Raine islet, home of seabirds. Whether
they represented a massacre by natives or
fair warfare among the early pearling crews,
no one can tell. Some of the skulls showed
neat round bullet holes and others were
cracked, suggesting acquaintance with the
disc-shaped clubs of the islanders.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: At the poll taken on favorite
broadcast items by an Adelaide daily a
strong opening demand for both classical
and chamber, music showed that the highbi'ow
element had got in eaifly, but it soon slack-
ened. Brass bands led nearly all through,
but a determined effort, mostly from up-
country, put “old-tirhe music and ballads”
just ahead at the finish, on a 211,000 poll;
“solo songs” came third. Sporting descrip-
tions and modern dance-music tailed off 10th
and 11th. But maybe that doesn’t represent
S. Australia’s real opinion. The devil in
S. Australia, it has to be remembered, is
very sick’at the moment.
THE MUSICAL BARMAID.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, where is the barmaid of musical calling,
the gushing dispenser of public-house
cheer.
Who stirred the piano with chords once
enthralling and sated fierce thirst with
long measures of beer?
How lavish her greetings, how taunting her
graces as nightly we gathered at cus-
tom’s decree,
Released from our labor and cleansed of its
traces, deep sentiment scored on our
diorite fades,
While Molly strummed soft o’er the ivoried
spaces, bright gems on her fingers that
fondled each key!
Ah, hushed is the singing. Clear trills and
high trebles are shut from a parlor now
curtained and prim ;
Subdued is the midnight carousal of rebels,
and quenched is the fervor of carol and
hymn,
In harmony swelling, in discord abating.
When Molly reigned queen till the clock-
stroke of morn.
Attending, bewitching, beguiling or baiting-
some buck from the ranks of her
gallants-in-waiting,
We studied the whims of her loving and
hating, or bowed to the blasts of her
anger and scorn.
But Molly has vanished; the old charms are
faded; disdained are the leaves of her
liquor-stained score
Whose burden of sentiment ever invaded
some bosom responsive, which pleaded
for more
When she at the keyboard gave vent to some
melody promising love, its fulfilment
deferred;
Its remnants consist of a few sheets gone
yellow, unknown to the ear. of the jazz-
singing fellow
Who leaps to the saxophone orchestra’s
bellow at night when the cabaret’s
challenge is heard.
Yet could we retravel old tracks of young
folly, where bright eyes and melody
lured and beguiled,
Again we should yield to the graces of Molly
in spite of all knowledge and wisdom
com ni led
THE ADVANTAGE OF THE WRITTEN WORD.
“I can see guilt written on my husband’s jace sometimes.”
“Pooh! That’s no good to you. You just wait till you find it written in his pocket.”
Since tasting such pleasures (or vices) that
whittle the substance, the income of
reckless mankind;
Red lips of enticement, strong ferments that
skittle, her pledges diffuse —ah, she
loved us a little.
And though we reflect such affection is
brittle, what matter? Sweet lady, she
also was blind!
N.S.W.
GERARDY.


X.S : Two of the most elaborately
planned bank robberies in the history of
Victorian crime occurred within 48 hours
at Hawthorn and Footscray. The job
required ‘the placing in position of five
iaau 6rS oxygen, weighing close on
1001 b. each. Oxy-acetylene blowpipes were
used to cut the bars of the windows leading
into the vaults and the inch-thick doors of
the strongrooms were demolished with alarm-
ing ease. The gang, which must have been
a large one, was rewarded for its arduous
““i® with cash and notes amounting to
£2700. It was pretty well all clear profit,
as the safe-breaking apparatus had been
stolen from the Caulfield Technical School.
* * * *
Viau”: “Shep” (B. 23/7/’3O) may be
right about tin hats thinning Diggers’
tMtchra, but mine is as thick as ever it was.
Ihe only, difference is that before I got
into khaki my hair was as straight as wire
bristles, but now the only way I can prevent
female relatives from raving over its wavi-
ness is to keep it prison-cropped. My own
theory is that the crinkles came in the
course of the headgear rising and falling
as 5.9’s fell close by.
* * ❖ ❖
“P.X.” : The “big mine,” as it used to be
called, at Broken Hill has had the shutters
up a few times in its history, but never until
last week was the staff paid off. Some of
that staff has been there almost from the
beginning: the “oldest inhabitant” is R. D.
Hale, a son of Westralia’s first bishop—a
descendant of the great Matthew, first Chief
Justice after England thought better of it
and brought the Stuarts back. The head-,
quarters of “the silvertails” of the' Broken
Hill Prop.’s earliest days were on what was
more or less blasphemously called Mt. Zion;
and of this settlement Bob Hale was one of
the brightest sparks. Here it was that an
encounter most famous in'the bullock-waggon
days of “the Hill” took place. A fine lot of
young athletes the Mt. Zionites were; besides
Hale they included the two Pells, sons of
Sydney University’s most famous professor
of mathematics (it was he who drafted the
first premium tables, etc., under which the
A.M.P. Society worked) ; Everard Browne,
a son of Rolf Boldrewood ; and Gordon Lyon,
still active in chasing the “prospect.” The
mining reporter of the “Barrier Miner”
MOST UNREASONABLE, THESE WIVES!
BERYL: “Can you understand Maisle divorcing
her husband?”
GLADYS: "No, I can't- he's one of the nicest husbands I've ever been out with.”
newspaper in those days was Alf Hales
(“Smiler”), who later went to England and
still regularly turns out his annual thriller.
Hales wrote bitingly of mine management
as of most things, and so annoyed Mt. Zion
that Everard Browne was chosen to knock
Hales’s head off. But they were all thorough
good sportsmen, so the thing had to be done
in orderly fashion. “Smiler” thought very
well of what he could do with ’ the bare
knuckles, and he had no hesitation in accept-
ing the challenge; and as fine a compliment
as any body of young bloods ever had offered
to it was paid by Hales, who accepted the
suggestion that the fight should take place in
Browne’s own quarters on Mt. Zion, with
his (Browne’s) friends to see that things
were right. It doesn’t matter now, but
Everard Browne won. Bob H’ale, an assayer
then, has been an assayer all his days, and
has stood by while the old mine turned out
metal worth 53 million pounds.
S’! * # *
“C.Q.”: Melburnians will get some idea of
the size of the Sydney Harbor Bridge from
a model which has been
constructed for the Show.
It took the ground carpen-
ters and engineers nine
months to do it. A model
made at the same time of
the Australian Building,
at the corner of Flinders-
lane and Elizabeth-street,
fits between the arch and
the traffic level of the
bridge, leaving an eighth
of an inch over. It is a
building of eleven storeys.
*. * *
“Clarence Cafeteria”:
The Firm has lately been
tearing a leaf out of the
movie magnates’ book in
the matter of publicity. To
advertise the classic qual-
ity of Kubelik’s muse it
had the violinist’s Hindu
servant standing sentry
over his £60,000 Stradi-
variug in a Collins-street
shop window. But it sur-
passed itself over “Little
Accident.” A call was
made to Victorian mothers
to bring along their babies
for the part of the infant
(illegitimate, by the way)
in that production, and at
least 700 parents responded.
The stalls at the King’s
were an extraordinary
sight, recalling a visit I
paid to the Tsarina’s fam-
ous foundling hospital in
pre-war Moscow. Even
fathers fetched their off-
spring. The babies all
looked so beautifully fat
and healthy that one won-
dered, if the part had de-
manded an emaciated in-
fant, whether the producers
would have encountered
the same difficulty as Pav-
lova when she tried to find
in Melbourne a nag suit-
able to represent Rosi-
nante in the “Don Quixote”
ballet. The S.P.C. is such
an efficient body that she
was eventually obliged to
select a well-fed prad and
get a scene-painter to paint
the protruding ribs on the
animal.
“Fernie”: Among the little things Uncle
Sam’s gobs left behind them in M.L. after
the visit of the fleet in 1925 was a collec-
tion of deserted wives who never saw their
hubbies again. These ladies can get divorced
in the Dominion, but they are now Ameri-
can citizens, and for that reason if they
married again in America or in the United
Kingdom they would be liable to a charge of
bigamy. There doesn’t appear to be any
evidence that a single one of them wishes
to go abroad to remarry or that she would
necessarily be prosecuted if she did, or that
legislation by the M.L. Parliament can alter
the situation, but it is proposed to amend
the divorce law “to give recognition of the
independence of women.” The lawyers "in
the House, strange to say, supported the
amendment, and it was a vote of non-legal
members that sent the bill back to a com-
mittee for an overhaul.
“Hamer”: Although she developed a have-
the law-on-yer complex in her old age, it would
have vexed the soul of the thrifty Mary
Scales, of Sydney, to know that no less than
six legal firms, acting on behalf of as many
alleged beneficiaries, would brief counsel to
help the Equity Court decide on the inter-
pretation of her will. Mrs. Scales, who
couldn’t read or write anything beyond her
HIS LUCK.
“We’re not goin’ to have any more, babies after this one.”
“Are they goin’ to sell th’ pram?”
“I bet yer they won’t. They’ll put it one side till I get married.”
own name, fought a case, after her husband’s
death, up to the Privy Council, which allowed
one of her appeals against the Full Court
regarding the disposition of his property.
She died over two years ago, leaving an
estate valued at £71,250, the foundations of
which were laid in a humble laundry busi-
ness, where her spouse’s part was to collect
and deliver the clothes; but she had a profit-
able side-line in fortune-telling and a beauty
parlor, and made shrewd investments in
real estate. She had a habit of burying
money in the back yard and digging it up
when it was wanted.
“Bloggs” : The late Mrs. Scales, whose for-
tune, largely got by fortune-telling, made
another appearance in a Sydney court last
week, was an illiterate, blowsy and unmag-
netic old dame who arrived at her usually
inaccurate conclusion by guesswork, after
a casual but penetrating cross-examination
of her subject. (I know, because I saw her
in action more than once in private houses,
as well as at her Moore Park home.) Yet,
shortly before the war, she was making more
money than all the magistrates who were
accustomed to fine her put together. And
this in face of competition from a rival sor-
ceress who was, in a manner of speaking,
genuine. Mrs. Foster-Turner, whose head-
quarters were at the old Protestant Hall,
had what the Scotch call “second sight.”
She knew what those who consulted her
knew. I went to her when I came back
from the war, and without a hint from me
she said exactly what the doctors had said
about my obscure complaint, and the treat-
ment required for it. She might have made
a lot of money out of her gift, but she suf-
fered from a respectability-complex and died
in comparative poverty.
* * * *
“Oxmead” ; Newspaper headlines like “The
Governor’s Flight” or “The Premier’s
Flight.” indicating that some notable or
other has done some aerial travelling, still
give me a slight shock in view of the only
meaning that the word “flight” formerly
held when applied to anything except a bird
or a winged insect. Obviously, however, it
is possible to fly and flee at the same time,
as appears from the case of the escaped
prisoner in Westralia who borrowed an
aerial fare from an accommodating friend
and flew and fled from Perth to Adelaide as
fast as a ’plane could take him. The police
wireless patrol-car is a fine invention, but
this new way of escaping from justice sug-
gests a police air patrol as a possibility of
the near future.
* * * *
“M.G.S.”: Confirmation of somebody’s
assertion that the English are a decadent
race is provided by the cabled account of
their behavior during a recent heat wave.
Although the thermometer rose only to a
beggarly 94, vast numbers of business men
carried their coats under their arms, tram
conductors removed their collars and opened
their shirts at the neck, and a coroner
delivered his verdict in his shirt sleeves. In
Sydney or Melbourne such spinelessness
would be unthinkable. I have seen the tem-
perature here rise to 109, yet the virile
Melburnian sallied forth, grimly if damply,
to his work, clad in his winter suit, with
trousers, waistcoat, coat, stiff collar and
tie all complete, a woollen singlet next his
skin, and an unventilatcd felt hat crushed on
his undaunted head.
* H: * *
“X.S.”: A curious point of law cropped
up in a Melb. court the other day. A woman
who had just done 10 months in gaol sued
her husband for £B2 10s., that being the
amount he was in arrears on a maintenance
order. The Beak held that the lady could
not be expected to be kept by her hubby and
the Government at one and the same time
and disallowed the claim. That the tax-
payer had anything to do with the matter
did not occur to anyone.
* * *
“Weke” : Maoriland’s cruiser H'.M.S. Dune-
din has lost one of her torpedoes valued at
£2OOO. Usually a well-trained torpedo will
remain afloat when merely aimed at nothing
in particular in the course of exercises, but
this one seized the opportunity to sink in 20
fathoms of water off Flat Rock, near Auck-
land. After circling agitatedly round the
spot for several days the Dunedin had to go
off on an Island cruise, and the mine-sweeper
Wakakura took up the hunt. The expensive
piece of mechanism, guaranteed’ harmless
but so delicately constructed that prospec-
tive searchers are implored to touch it
gently, remains somewhere beneath the
waters of the Hauraki Gulf.
Hs H* ♦ Hs
“X.S.”: Some quaint evidence was pro-
duced in a recent row over a will in Mel-
bourne. Testator was boots at a Warrnam-
bool coffee palace, and in that humble cap-
acity had accumulated an estate valued at
£5890. The old chap, an Irishman and quite
illiterate, had hidden his will behind some
lining-boards. A friend described how the
document had been drawn up. Deceased had
requested him to apportion the money by
giving two-fifths to himself, two-fiftlis to one
niece and two-fifths to another. Witness
pointed out that he could not have six-fifths.
“Oh, yes, I can,” remarked the old man.
“You don’t know how much money I have
got.” The witness then gave him a simple
exercise in vulgar fractions with the aid of
matches, which enlightened him.
* * * $
“Harold Hardupp”: Sydney’s most con-
firmed pessimist must be the man I met on
Circular Quay when I paused to have a look
at the mighty arch of the Harbor Bridge.
His retort to a casual remark upon its magni-
tude was that it was a piece of damned
foolishness. “They may wanter take it down
some day,” he opined, “an’ look what a
helluva job that’ll be!”
THE FOILS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ib® modern up-to-date daily must have a ‘sob-
sister as well as a professional humorist.”
Lhcy cater for tastes that are various
As can be, the lass and the lad,
■I be Mother who must be hilarious,
sister who has to be sad.
Alike indispensable figures
In utterly opposite spheres,
Due moves y°u to chuckles and sniggers,
The other to tears.
Th ey are foils. He must frivol and frolic
wi -l 1 mor oing in verse or in prose,
’''hue hers is the pose melancholic,
The wading in waters of woes.
In joyous and jocular jingle
One. side of the medal he’ll set;
She shows the reverse in a single
Police-court vignette.
Is he cheery and plump? You’d suppose so,
a j match with his rollicking trade ;
And you feature our Miss Penseroso
A slender and serious maid.
But of judgments like these I am sceptic.
Sim may be a Juno-like belle,
And he an ill-humored dyspeptic—
You never can tell.
Are there moments, I wonder, reflective,
As for suitable topics they range,
V\ ben their roles and their functions
respective
They feel they’d be glad to exchange ?
And, like other susceptible mortals,
Do they ever relinquish their jobs
±o crash matrimonial portals
logether, the brother who chortles,
The sister who sobs?
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


THE PRODIGAL SON—A SEQUEL.
“Sir Otto Niemeyer tells Australia that it can only save itself by swearing off borrowing for several years, working hard and living economically. The ex-parson Garden
replies that if Australia repudiated its debts there would be no need for it to economise.”
THE TEMPTER: “Don’t listen to the old man! You come back with me and have some more good times.”


• -I
!§§
Supreme in the Air
5,000 Miles International Air Contest
Morzik, the skilful Germau aviator, won his second success in the
5,000 miles International Air Contest over Europe. Morzik used a
B.F.W. Monoplane fuelled by Shell and lubricated with Golden Shell
Oil. Poss and Notz, who gained second and third places respectively,
and a British entrant, Butler, who made fastest time for the course,
all flew machines fuelled by Shell.
The Choice of Experts Everywhere
SHELL OIL & SPIRIT
5.1075.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Albert Jacka, the first Australian to win a
V.C. in the war, lias become Mayor of St.
Ivilda (Vic.) after one year’s service as
a councillor.
September has been a full month in the
life of Archbishop Duhig, who has dotted
Brisbane hilltops with churches, monasteries
and convents. September 2, 1871, he was
born; in September, 1891, he left Queens-
land for the Irish College in Rome; and on
his 59th birthday leaders of the Catholic
flock started a fund with the idea of hand-
ing him a wallet on December 9, his epis-
copal silver jubilee. When he went to Rome
lie was the first student enrolled by Dr.
Kelly, now Archbishop of Sydney, then
rector; first of his students to become a
bishop, and first bishop to be consecrated
by him.
Stan Argyle, who succeeds McPherson as
Vic. Opposition leader in the Assembly, has
been more fortunate in politics than his
brother Reg, the former member for Kyneton
and Dalhousie. In 14 years Reg never got
a higher job than that of party whip,
whereas Stan has served (in 10 years) in
Archbishop REDWOOD, of Wellington
( M.L.), the oldest of all R.C. prelates.
He is now 91, and has been an arch-
bishop for 43 years.
five Governments and looks like leading one
sooner or later. He represents Toorak and
practises as a medical specialist in Collins-
street.
William Scott Fell, managing director of
Inter-State Steamships and Maitland Main
Collieries, who died in Sydney on Sunday,
was the son of a Glasgow shipowner and
had spent 51 of his 64 years in Australia. His
shipping . enterprises, like most others,
brought big profits in war-time. North Shore
returned him to the Assembly in 1922; he
was a go-as-you-please Nationalist, with stub-
born views of his own on most subjects, the
type never readily amenable to party disci-
pline and whips. In 1927 he resigned his
seat to fight the pre-selected Nationalist can-
didate, Archdale Parkhill, for the Federal
division oi? Warringah, where Granville
Ryrie’s promotion to High Commissionership
had created a vacancy, but the machine beat
him.
“S.T.S.” : Others
can write about
the late Archibald
Strong’s poetry
and scholarship,
whether one need
support his firm
theory that you
can’t properly
understand your
own language with-
out studying the
obsolete Anglo-
Saxon —and so on.
Since he came to
S. Aus. as the first
Professor of Eng-
lish at Adelaide
University (under
the modern Jury
endowment), his
work for the Re-
p e r t o r y Theatre
has been a valu-
able side-line. With
all his Melbourne
exp e r i once, he
would not take
over the chairman-
ship of the Rep.
for several years,
till he knew local
people and condi-
tions ; then he did
and the theatre has
gone steadily
ahead. New home,
improved staging,
big increase in
membership, all
have come under
and through his
suave but deter-
mined leadership.
Professor ARCHIE
STRONG.
Gordon Bennett is the first Australian
militia officer since the war to be appointed
to a higher rank than brigadier. Born at
Balwyn, Victoria, 43 years ago, he was an
accountant and manufacturer before he went
away in 1915 as C.O. 6th Battalion. He
got his brigade in 1916.
Sir Edward (“Better Not”) Wallington,
who won liis sobriquet as private secretary
to four Australian Governors and one
Governor-General in years agone, and
afterwards filled a similar office for the
Queen, lives nowadays in the old family
place, Keevil Manor, near Trowbridge, Wilts,
a stately old village squire of 75, who still
takes the chair at parish meetings and reads
the lessons, in church o’ Sundays. Walling -
ton, who lived so long in an atmosphere of
ceremony and courts, was a fine athlete in
his youth ; he played cricket for Oxford 53
years ago, and won the lawn-tennis cham-
pionship of N. S. Wales in 1887.
Thousands of Victorian teachers have been
puzzling for eight years over the identity
of “Eko” who has been supplying the
“Teachers’ Journal” with a regular monthly
contribution of two columns. The role
assumed by him has been that of a philo-
sophic old bush dominie growing his bulbs,
smoking his pipe, angling in quiet pools and
waiting trenchant articles on things that
matter. Now that these articles are about
to be published in book form, “Eko” is
revealed, as Nathan F. Spielvogel, head-
master in Ballarat of one of the biggest Vic.
schools, and author of “A Gumsucker on the
Tramp,” “The Affair at Eureka,” “Cocky
Farmer,” etc. It is over 30 years since
he first wrote for The Bulletin.
Hobart’s most unassuming citizen, Mat-
thew. Wilkes Simmons, who dropped dead at
the 68th milestone the other day, was chair-
man of directors of the National Trustee Co.,
the Tas. Finance and Agency Co. and several
other enterprises, a director of the “Mer-
cury”, and “Tas. Mail,” and one of tho three
commissioners of the State Hydro-Electric
Department. The Hobart Chamber of Com-
merce, the Tas. University and the Law
Society had all found a pillar in him, and
he was a leading Rotarian. He started in
pursuit of Costs in 1884, having qualified
under the late A. I. Clark (Attorney-
General and afterwards Judge), and was
head of the legal firm of Simmons, Wolf-
hagen, Simmons and Walch. He was per-
suaded to stand for Parliament twice, and
didn’t seem to regret it much when he was
defeated.
Archdeacon Boyce, the retiring incumbent
of St. Paul’s, Redfern, has been there for
46 years; Jimmy McGowen, the Ma State's
first Labor Premier, was once his Sunday-
school superintendent. Like some ancient
prophet, Boyce was cast up on the shore of
the country where he ministered; the ship
Earl of Charlemont, on which his parents
travelled to Australia, went on the rocks at
Barwon Heads. He started to earn his
living in a bank, but has been a parson for
62 out of his 86 years. He founded the
N.S.W. Temperance Alliance.
H. W. Mobsby, who retired from the
Queensland Civil Service the other day, was
a photographer of exceptional capacity. For
many years he was engaged in putting the
attractions of Queensland before the world,
his work taking him to the Franco-
British Exhibition, the Panama Exposition,
the Empire Exhibition and that at Dunedin
(M.L.), as well as countless Australian func-
tions. No visiting dignitary toured the State
without Mobsby in close attendance, and
many great ones have been preserved on his
plates.
“Psychic”: Not generally known that Aus-
tralia owes Herbert Hoover, President of the
U.S.A., its Zinc Corporation; without him
it would never have survived its early
troubles. When Hoover left Westralia in
the late ’nineties and came to Broken Hill,
the Corporation was hard up against it.
One zinc expert after another, brought from
overseas to report and advise how to put
the business on a paying basis, had
been hired and fired with monotonous regu-
larity. Hoover spent six months trying to
get the extraction problem solved commerci-
ally. Finally he cabled E. A. Govett, the chair-
man in London, that it would take £30,000
to ensure success. Govett raised the money
and the resulting experiments made the pro-
cess profitable. Then Hoover returned to
California.
R. M. Crawford, recently returned to
Sydney after three years at Oxford, gained
the Frazer History Scholarship and the
Woolley Travelling Scholarship at Sydney
Uni. These took him to Balliol, where-he
graduated with a first in Modern History.
He is an old Sydney High boy.
11. T. Vickers, secretary to the Premier of
Victoria, retires at the end of the year.
Since he entered the Premier’s office nearly
42 years ago as a shorthand-writer he has
served under 18 First Ministers, five of
whom had more than one turn. Before join-
ing the Civil Service he was five years on a
Bendigo daily. Charlie Gale, who collected
a couple of pips and the M.C. in the war,
will succeed Vickers.
Only one director who saw tho first small
paysheet of the Broken
Hill Prop, was still on
the board when the
mine closed down last
week. That was Bowes
Kelly. His name, in
fact, was on the pros-
pectus on which the
co. was floated—June,
1885. Later he was
one of those whom
William Orr interested
in Mt. Lyell, and he
was chairman of that
co., too, for years.
Big Australian indus-
try has never had a
kindlier head.
Joe Bear, the
N.S.W. police officer
who had the job of
keeping an eye on
things on the Lower
Darling during the
furious shearers’
strikes of the early
’nineties died last
week. Bear, then wear-
ing only a stripe or
two, was the officer
handiest when the
river steamer Rodney
was burned with its
wool-laden barges at
Moorara; but though
the place was overrun
with plain-clothes men
for months afterwards,
no conviction was ever
got. Twenty men or
thereabout were en-
gaged in the raid ; but
they knew how to
hold their tongues.
Bear, like a few hun-
dred other able-bodied
ex-policemen, had been
pensioned off in Syd-
ney for a dozen years
past.
Sir PHILIP GAME,
Governor of N. S.
Wales, who , after
opening the Society
of Artists' show, has
gone off on his first
big inland tour.
Councillor R. J. McSolvin, the new Mayor
of Brunswick (Yic.), is Melbourne’s leading
Sherlock Holmes. He is a master carrier,
whose hobby is amateur detective work. In
the last ten years he claims to have laid
no less than 80 Sikeses by the heels and 75
per cent, of them got a stretch.
Inspector Brissendon, who has just retired
from the N.S.W. police force, was famed
as an expert tracker during his early days
in the force. He was one of those detailed
as an escort for Royalty when the present
King spent 10 days in Sydney 29 years ago.
A. B. Piddington, K.C., chairman of the
N.S.W. Indus-
trial Commission
—o n e of the
“benevolent asses”
of a “Plain Eng-
lish” this week —-
is really a very
remarkable man.
He is a vast
absorber. Most
men would be
satisfied if they
know enough to
be a University
examiner in a
couple of sub-
jects. Piddington
was an examiner
in three—French,
German and Eng-
lish ; and then
he made a spe-
cialty of Spanish.
Yet the medals
he won in his
undergrad. days
were mostly for
Latin and Greek.
To get through
his Bar exams,
he taught at Syd-
ney High School
(and is still affec-
tionately remem-
bered by some of
the “first boys”) ;
and afterwards
he was associate
to that other very
remarkable man,
Windeyer. But
like most men of
his type, he is
utterly unpracti-
cal ; and, curious-
ly enough, with
all his learning,
is a poor hand at
an argument. Not
that he can’t
“Good Old Piddo"-
68 yesterday.
talk—he. can do that by the hour. But you
mustn t interrupt.
Dead in Adelaide, at 56, Herbert Brown,
secretary to the Metropolitan Fire Brigade.
He was a keen soldier, and did his best
work in S’Africa, where he won a D.C.M.
for swimming the flooded Modder River
under heavy fire to bring back transport
punts that were on the wrong side.
Christopher Smith, killed by a tram in
Auckland at 63, had been there since 1922.
.ut was that kept him on this
side of the world. He was bandmaster of
the visiting “Besses o’ the Barn” from
Lancashire about 1908, when “Goodman o’
the trams” secured him to reorganise and
conduct the Municipal Tramways Band in
Adelaide, where he did good work for over
10 years. A fine cornet player, too.
Thomas Geraghty, who died at 90 the other
on °ne of liis farms near Lismore
(JN.fe.YV.), was born at Jamberoo, and was
one of the early South Coasters in the north-
ern trek that peopled the Tweed, Richmond
and Clarence River valleys. The sailing
ship that carried him and his wife from
Sydney to Ballina over 60 years ago took
two weeks for the voyage.
William (but always called “Sandy”)
Gordon, dead in Adelaide at 82, worked
harder for the turf than perhaps any other
man in S. Aus. He was secretary of Adel-
aide Racing Club in that dark period about
1885 when it was hardly sure whether it
was alive or not. He owned some good
horses then, and later did a lot of handi-
capping, mainly for country clubs. Latterly
he established a racing agency, which the
family still carries on.
That rolling stone, Claude Harrison,
moves on to gather more moss at Hobart.
Hh started life in the military pay office,
Brisbane, but soon was in the movie busi-
ness there and at Darlinghurst and Wagga,
.(N.S.W.). For a few years he has been
m Adelaide, at the Pav. and Wondergraph,
v/here he was in at the birth of the talkies’
Australia lost one of its best-known mining
men when Tom Horton died a few days ago.
Born on the North Coast he was a fortune-
hunter in the West in old Coolgardie days,
and there he and Ambrose Freeman came
together, got hold of the Lancefield and
worked it with some profit and sold it at
more. He . and his partner, with pockets
fairly well-lined, had bright visions of reviv-
ing gold-mining in their native State and
spent thousands on the search, but got hold
of only one even moderate mine. After that
they turned to tin, and the Austral Malay
was their infant. Horton hadn’t the technical
equipment of his partner, but he had a
tremendous capacity for being careful, and
that and his honesty brought him a large
following.
THE OTHER BRIDGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I stood beside the shore where, bold and
sheer,
The Harbor Bridge uplifts its massive
span,
And wondered was there aught beyond the
sphere
And compass of the skilful engineer
And sturdy artisan.
What tireless effort to the task they brought,
What firm resolve, what work of brain
and hand,
What science and resource, what toil and
thought,
Who planned like wizards and like Titans
wrought
Until the gap was spanned.
Then to another gap my thoughts would
stray,
Of even more immediate concern,
The one that’s yawned so wide this many a
day
Between the debts we owe and those we pay,
’Twixt what we spend and earn,
I wonder just how long those who recite
Their, party shibboleths so glib and pat,
The politicians who for office fight—
class who got us into such a plight—
Will take in bridging that.
N.S.W,
IFORD.


3®
A
m
Sg
t?
/
w
A-ir
8?
» »*
m
as*
WmSiill
r V
/-*• *
I
:trjjf.m.
&
-.j-.t ~
/
fe-
'?V.v
* *
V^-
Is “Good Health’’ carrying
your good money ?
them as they thunder into the
straight—gleaming eyes, quivering
nostrils, heaving flanks —a score of
magnificent animals striving for the
advantage that spells victory. The
race is on and the judge’s verdict will
go to the soundest in wind and limb.
So in life’s race. Success to him who
stakes all on “Good Health.” Nothing
but a rigid adherence to sane habits of
living will serve to win the day for you.
Have Wolfe' 's Schnapps Every Day
For your Health’s Sake
The moderate use of this perfect
medicinal beverage, by stimulating and
invigorating the system, will assist it to
function as nature intended it should.
W© LF E S
AROMATIC SCHIEDAM
SCHNAPPS
“As Good for Women as for Men.”
•* l
l \ x\\
Wl
m
si„\-
OLFES
pr^a
( 'l
w-
PRODUCT OF HOLLAND.;
. THIS >
[ALCOHOLIC BEVERAOf
Id exclusively in Holland. am!
dt only pure from every injur*
■nd ingredient, but it is also of
ie quality. Z
ition of Agents and Purchasers'
the Signature and address otfr
to the/Title of this Aromatic-
ial. eno&ssed on the sides ay
protettfdn/acainst inferior an£_
§
Al.
- at infringement will
d the infringers rigorous
NT 6 Ft. OZS
3E
■jr


SUNDRY SHOWS.
rj SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Follow Through”
Criterion “Coquette”
fiTATE Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
„ ING 8 “Little Accident”
£ OYAI ' “Lilac Time”
AIVOEI The Follies of 1930
ft OYT 8 Movies and Talkies
bTATE Movies and Talkies
♦
Sydney Playbox “The Insect Play”
It appears that • one day Mr. Duncan
Macdougall got at a bottle of Capek’s over-
proof methoTslovakia and woke up in the
woods with the seat out of his pants. Then
he started to see things, not mere fantods
or guffadders, but butterflies with top-hats
called Victor and with red tights and a
monocle called Otto and names like that.
. •*-- was a very lovely wood, with flowers in
it that must have been grown by the chap
who draws the pictures on the packets of
flower-seeds. One of these flowers had a soft-
arm k-shop straw in it, and every now and
then Otto or Victor or Iris or Clytie or
Felix or one of the other butterflies would
flit over and have a lemon-squash, and Mr.
Macdougall would have another go at the
metho-slovakia, and pay for it by having
to listen to Felix reading bad verse dashed
off on the back of a figleaf. He also had
to watch the lady butterflies putting the hard
word on the young men butterflies, and
listen to the poet-butterfly trying to explain
to one pushful young thing what “consum-
mated” meant, which he did with such
clarity that a dear old soul in the audience
said to her friend that the place wasn’t
respectable, and her friend said that it was
an education.
After that a lady butterfly said “Chase
me, Charlie,” or words to that effect, to the
man butterfly with the monocle called Otto,
and they flitted off the stage, and when they
came back, one of the other lady butterflies
said, “What have you been up to? Your
bodice is torn,” and the other one said
“Jealous!” and “Oh, it was lovely!” or some-
thing of the sort, and the dear old soul in the
audience said that she never could under-
stand about insects, and her friend said that
it was enlightening.
Mr. Macdougall awakes in the woods.
The green poet-butterfly then plodded on
to the stage and read some bad verse he’d
apparently been composing in the wings;
but when a lady butterfly tried to do a line
with him and brought up the “consummated”
question again, he said she hadn’t got It,
and that what he meant to say was that she
had It, but it was only It because she still
had it, and if he—well, he was simply going
to be a good boy, and if she kept on with
that sort of thing he’d walk home.
After that the lady butterfly gave him up
and went over to try her hand on Mr.
Macdougall, who had been having more goes
at the metho-slovakia, and was well and
truly on his ear. She led off by saying she
liked the lovely aroma that was hanging
about him, which made Mr. Macdougall
laugh so loudly that a piece of plaster fell
off the ceiling and nearly hit the Consul
for Czechoslovakia, whose countrymen Karel
and Josef Capek it was that started the
eminent producer off on this lamentable
bender.
As for the lady butterfly, she must have
thought it was a thunderstorm coming up.
Anyway she flitted forward to the front of
the stage and linked her lips up with a
man butterfly and another pair of them did
the same, and there was Mr. Macdougall,
drunk as a fiddler’s bitch (dramatically
speaking), waving his bottle and saying,
“They’re butterflies—that’s what they are,
butterflies!” and the curtain came down:
and the dear old soul in the audience said,
“What do you think —Molly was given a
beautiful Persian kitten and she’s going to
call her Don Bradman,” and her frienff read
out of the programme that Mr. Macdougall
said, in writing about the play, “Do you
blame butterflies and beetles for being what
they may be?” and the d.o.s. said, “What?”
and after that the curtain went up again
revealing Mr. Macdougall well and nobly
oiled.
At least, in the course of 10 minutes or
so he saw a chrysalis, two beetles twice as
big as himself, a parasite, an ichneumon
fly, a larva and two crickets, average
weight all round about list. The beetles
affected a cockney accent, apart from which
they spoke all the lines they remembered in
an ear-splitting crescendo, which made Mr.
Macdougall reacli for the firewater with great
gusto. Apparently the beetles were scarabs,
with those sacred insects’ distressful habit
of rolling a stuffed calico bag about the
stage, though with their front legs, instead
of upside down; and no doubt Mr. Mac-
dougall explained afterwards to thp Consul
for Czechoslovakia that when one of them
called “Coo-ee! Coo-ee!” it was using a word
which even the best scarabs could not help
learning from the Light Horse in Egypt.
Anyway, the dear old soul in the audience
looked more at home than she had done all
night when she heard it and said to her
friend, “Don’t their fake noses look funny!”
and then the ichneumon fly rushed on to the
stage with a dagger and stuck it into one
of the crickets and then into the other one,
and the chrysalis recited a couple of lines
from Answers to Correspondents about
Daw-en, and Mr. Macdougall knocked off a
“Not mere fantods or guffadders.”
rosner and staggered about with the seat still
out of his pants.
That was the end of the second act, and
the d.o.s. said, “I think I’d better get
her to call it Amy Johnson, don’t you?”
and her friend read out of the programme
that Mr. Macdougall, writing about the play,
had said, “If we are as gods to the ants,
what ar e we to the Ineffable?” and the d.o.s.
said, “Does he mean Mr. Justice Curlewis?”
and then the play started off again with a
lot of young chaps and girls dressed in black
tights and scarlet sweaters telling Mr. Mac-
. dougall they were ants. By this time the
eminent actor-manager was so completely
soused that he was able to swallow even
that, and when the scarlet chaps started a
scrap with some yellow chaps over the right
of way between two blades of grass, he said
somathing about fools who go and fight, and
that war is nonsense,, and two of the red
chaps reeled off a speech about all for one
and one for all, and the good of the State
and other things that would have made
Jock Garden fairly ropeable. Anyhow, the
yellow chaps won, and Mr. Macdougall
showed he still had a kick in him, in spite
of the beautiful bellyful of La Perouse
he had aboard, by putting his foot on the
neck of an ant nearly three times as big as
himself and crushing it.
After that there was an epilogue wherein
Mr. Macdougall polished off the rest of the
turps, and died loudly, surrounded by several
young ladies dressed in floaty material and
called Moths. And as the profoundly moved
audience went out, past the wall-drawings by
Souter, the friend was overheard to say to
the dear old soul, “Mr. Macdougall says that
you will admire and cherish his play or you
will hate it extremely.” And the dear old
soul said “Yes, I am sure I will.”
* * *
Those who say that Sydney isn’t musical
had the base aspersion cast back in their teeth
last week. Choirs, glee-clubs, orchestras,
brass bands, conductors, vocal and instru-
mental soloists and composers rushed from
their lairs. The nights and days were filled
with music and the skimped purses of profes-
sional musicians resounded again to the
clink of silver and the rustle of banknotes.
Towards the week-end individuals began to
respond to the classical stimulus. Cedric,
who usually entertains the inhabitants of
this Showman’s guesterie with “My Goil
has Halitosis” as he cleanses his frame, burst
on Friday morning into a spirited declama-
tion of the prologue from “Pagliacci,”
descending to low comedy only once, when
lie informed the world that he was the
“clothes prop.” The indignant cornetist
who lies in Avait for us o’ mornings on the
railway bridge, wailing “Annie Laurie,”
switched on Saturday a.m. into the Nocturne
in E Flat, the effect of which in bright sun-
light was indescribably heartrending. In the
city a man with a dulcimer essayed the
prize-song from the “Meistersinger.” Mr.
Aaronstein, advancing ten bob on the Show-
man’s second-best overcoat, said the general
atmosphere took him back to his native Wien,
a piece of hyperbole that aroused mingled
emotions.
Culmination of an eight-days’ feast of
melody was Backhaus-and-orchestra at the
Town Hall, where a large throng keyed up
to a desperate pitch of enthusiasm cheered
the maestro for a wonderful performance of
the “Emperor” Concerto. Alfred Hill swung
the baton. In striking contrast to the robust-
ness of Beethoven was the Chopin F Minor
Concerto, with Liszt’s Second Rhapsody as
“Flit over and have a lemon-squash.”
a rollicking finale. No. They can’t say Syd-
ney isn’t musical.
* ¥ *
Backhaus has returned from Maoriland
like a giant refreshed. He struck the Shivery
Islands in the middle of an extra-cold winter
and a thief stole into his bedroom one night
and lifted 30 quid off his dressing-table—
but wdiat do money or thermometers matter
to a virtuoso? At his recital in Sydney
Town Hall last Thursday he played the
third of the Countess Browne sonatas, com-
posed in Beethoven’s glad confident morning,
and the 110 in A Flat, product of the days
of deafness and disillusion but wrapped in
trailing clouds of glory. Schumann’s “Etudes
Symphonique,” variations on an air of no
great merit scored by an aristocratic patron,
was played as one could imagine Robert him-
self delivering it, conveying subtly the im-
pression that the manner is vastly more im-
portant than the matter. In Chopin’s most
martial polonaise trumpets told a tragic tale,
and in Dohnfmyi’s setting of the “Naila”
waltzes of Delibes the maestro showed what
can be made out of the simplest of all
rhythms. Sweetest of all was the Liszt
“Liebestraum,” which can be played in 99
ways—all permissible. Backhaus has dis-
covered yet another mode or mood, and it
transcends all the others.
* * *
The current bill of one-act Australian
plays at Sydney Community suggests that
there is such a thing as being too ambitious.
The Community attempts to stage these
four more or less different pieces within the
limit of a couple of hours and with only about
half a dozen players to interpret four
times as many parts. The result could not
help being confusing even if the players
were paragons of versatility. Since they are
miles away from anything of the kind, the
result is mostly disaster.
The offerings are Louis Esson’s “Dead
Timber,” Vance Palmer’s dramatisation of
Henry Lawson’s “Telling Mrs. Baker,” Furn-
ley Maurice’s “The Disturber of the Pools”
and William Moore’s “Moonlight.” The
interpreters of “Dead Timber” win the
annual biscuit for the worst combination of
players in Christendom. They played the
piece as if they didn’t like it, and
this Showman is not sure that they hadn’t
some reason. It is an early-morning milk-
yard fragment of dismality. Much the same
bunch of players did very slightly better in
“Telling Mrs. Baker.” It is a convincing-
fragment, utterly ruined by an unnecessary
and evilly sentimental juvenile intrusion.
“The Disturber of the Pools” was the one
well-acted item of the night. It deserved the
honor. It has imagination, it seems necessary
and it is conclusive. “Moonlight,” only in-
differently put on, has the advantage of
being an attempt to escape from Australia’s
gloom stratum. It has the disadvantage of
being loose and disconnected. It is a bunch
of colored strings rather than a play.
The all-Australia bill wall be repeated
every Thursday night for the month. Later
there will be a season of playlets by Aus-
tralian women writers, and this Showman
“Don’t their jake noses look funny!”
would humbly suggest that three pieces well
done would be better than any number
handled as the male offerings are mostly
handled. The Community is doing a good
work in trying to air Australian drama, but
it might remember the brevity of its clothes-
line.
* # *
“Lilac Time” is now running to good busi-
ness at Melbourne Royal. Schubert’s lovely
lyrics are a draw, and few musical comedies
can boast a finale to an act written to such
an accompaniment as the famous “Military
March.” As a portrait of an artist—of any
artist—-John Ralston’s picture of the com-
poser is, of course, tripe. Little is known
of the life of Schubert, but if anything is
certain it is that the author of the Unfinished
Symphony was not a pious sentimentalist
ready to give up his girl to an acquaintance
because the acquaintance might make her
happier. Ralston rather over-emphasises the
Sunday-school teacher aspect of the stage
Schubert, but as a passionate, throbful
singer of the songs he stands on his own.
Looking rather like Harriet Bennet, who
made her debut in the role in 1926, Marie
Bremner presents a Lili of the same Early
Victorian vintage, and sings with unforced
charm as well. The splendid Stigant and
the equally admirable Leslie Holland, as the
court glassmaker and the Danish ambassador
respectively, show Leo F'ranklyn, as the
detective Novotny, some points as to how
comedy parts in a superior operetta should
be played. Sidney Burchall, Herbert Browne
and Bernard Manning give the usual hol-
low note to the artificial gaiety of the court-
yard scene. A delightful show, elegantly
staged and intelligently produced.
* * *
At the Town Hall on Saturday night
the Malvern Choral Society and the prof,
orchestra performed Vaughan Williams’s
gigantic “Sea Symphony”; and so the
invasion of the metropolis by the outer circle
began. Malvern is Melbourne’s most musi-
cal suburb, and the choralists solidified its
reputation. The Sea Symphony lives up to
its name. It is Oceanic in its scope, and
the waste of waters is beset with deceptive
calms and technical storms. The piece is
set to Walt Whitman’s words and the music
of the Welshman, Williams, is superior to
the American poet’s words and philosophy.
Such lines as “I think a thought” are not
poetry in any accepted form, and phrases
like “covered all over” are only mental slops.
Whitman’s attitude to the deeper facts of
life seems to resemble that of a small boy
who likes to show his courage by being
shut, in a dark room and frightened by a
bogey which he knows is only daddy dressed
up iu a sheet. The music, however, has
much power, is brilliantly expressive and
often full of natural vitality. The finale
is splendidly suggestive of the bustle of a
ship or of a soul setting out on its destiny.
It was sung with great vigor and in excel-
lent unison, but the organ as usual was out
of tune. Eda Bennie, soprano, and Thomas
George, baritone, were two soloists of whom
any city might be proud. Herold Kyng sang
the Credo from Verdi’s “Othello,” and
easily filled the hall with his full-throated song.
* * *
Fiddler Kubelik finished his solo perform-
ances in Melbourne with the Kreutzer
Sonata at the Auditorium on Saturday. The
unexpected never happens with Jan. His
bowing appears to be entirely effortless. He
“Telling Mr. Macdougall they were ants.”
looks as if he could do it equally well stand-
ing on his prim head. At the Town Hall
next Saturday he will play with the Uni-
versity Orchestra his own concerto No. 4.
¥
Amazing scenes continue to. occur at Mel-
bourne Tivoli, an old building in Bourke-
street midway between the Post Office. and
Parliament House. Twice daily crowds
gather there so large that numbers have to
be turned away. At one end of the interior
is a raised space or pla ' orm and on this
space or platform life-size figures appear from
time to time, sometimes singly, sometimes in
couples and occasionally in small groups.
They appear to be of ’ both sexes and to
understand remarks addressed to them by the
house. They speak to the audience, sing songs
and rapidly move their hands and feet, amidst
frantic applause. The management is
emphatic in its assurances that they are
real human beings. Moreover, it asserts
that they are all Australians. In order
to establish its bona fides it is pre-
pared to let any member of the general
public come on the platform and feel
the figures to see if they are real. If neces-
sary, it is prepared. to submit the perform-
ance to examination by a board of scientists
to prove that no wires, clockwork mechanism,
cinematograph machine or other mechanical
appliance is used, and that the show is what
it purports to be.
* * *
The impression prevails that tfnere is
something doing on ,tlie Sydney theatrical
front. Wilkie, thanks to the Australian-made
play about Bligh, has wound up a. good
season at the Opera House, and Mayne
Lynton has stepped eagerly into his shoes
with “Red Kisses,” a belliferous bellow-
drama upon which Mr. Lynton, Nancye
Stewart, Arthur Clarke, a parrot and a
dozen or two other mummers expend their
art. The opening performance was most
notable for Lynton’s turning to the rather
loud prompter with the gritty assurance,
“Yes, that is the right word!”
Other movements include the return of
the St. James to the legit., or at any rate
to Ada Reeve, Frith (Alfred), Hector St.
Clair, Roy Rene, Nell Fleming, Colin Crane,
Bryl Walkley and sundry other attractive
titles. The show, called “Pot Luck,” starts
on Friday at the naughty hour, 11.30 p.m
The Taliaferro season has pretty well dried
up at the Criterion, where the. Firm promises
a New Dramatic Company with, the original
item “Bird in Hand” for September 20.
“I never could understand about insects.”
“I think it is most enlightening.”
Hoyt affiliation with Fox Films means
that some 150 Australian theatres will
be more or less under American con-
trol. To compensate, managing-director
Tliring announces that he will now be able
to devote his time to tlie production of
local films; a project that he has always
held nearest his heart. The Fox people
promise to assist with stars, studio equipment
and skilled men. There was talk a few
weeks ago of Hoyts and Union Theatres
pooling their resources. They have had a
working agreement for some time to over-
come the effect of over-building, brought
about by the insensate competition of a couple
of years ago. Presumably the Fox affiliation
will sidestep this. In the meantime there
are approximately 5000 empty seats nightly
in Melbourne alone.


Get your
mi
PAINTS and
VARNISHES
from
AGENTS
EVERYWHERE.
THEY "KEEP ON KEEPING ON!
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Stan&urd of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
THE VALUE OF SECURITY
is fully realised by most people when considering investments or selecting a Bank or Safe Deposit,
but its worth should also be considered when selecting their Executor by reason of the import-
ance of that office. Be assured of undoubted security by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, AGENT, ETC.
Its Capital and "Reserves total £1,120,000, in addition to which in terms of the Act of Parlia-
ment by which the Company was incorporated the sum of £20,000 is deposited with the New
South Wales Government as PERPETUAL SECURITY for the proper administration of funds
entrusted to its care.
TRUST FUNDS UNDER CONTROL EXCEED £39,023,000.
Call or write for explanatory Booklet.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Managing Director. H. V. DOUGLASS, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
fdhfd
Holden’s Motor Body Builders, Ltd.
Towards
June, Profits.* Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 43 334
1921*.’. 12,634 8 p.c. = 10,400 2,234 41’,647
1922.. 34,755 10 „ „ 13,000 21,755 19.892
Reserves.
1923.. 93,003 10 „ „ 13,000 80,003 60,111
1924 lie 936 Fref. 8 p.c. = 9,002 j
• b ’ ) Ord. 10 „„ 19,500 ) 80,908 141,019
Pref. issue exes., £7526 J
Dropped out of reserves, £14,322 126,697
1925.. 185.506 j 15 P ' C ‘ = 36’563 * l32 > 943 259,640
1926.. 160.957 j 8p.c.=16,000 J gl 33g 340 978
l (Jra. 15 ~ ~ 60,019 \
Premiums on shares, £78,000.. 418,978
1927.. 180.688 | | gg63B 597,610
1928.-135,186 | P ‘ C '~9 3 ’goo } 1,066 508,682
1929.. 170.793 { gjjf j® P ' C ~92,400 j 64 - 393 573 ' 075
1930.. 061 | ® P-C,;= 3 i’2oo J 1° 4 >8 61 677,936
*lncludes net additions to depreciation and other
reserves.
The co. is a noteworthy example of the
proper use of the tariff in fostering the
growth of an Australian industry. The out-
standing features of the business have been,
and still are, the enterprise of the manage-
ment and its vigorous war against high pro-
duction costs. Some glittering results have
been achieved, but more has been put by
than has been distributed, so that the
£1,174,000 of paid capital had the assistance
of £677,936 of reserves at June 30. Never-
theless, when the money is mainly in fixed
a-ssets and everything plannd on a mass pro-
duction basis, plant has to be kept busy if
satisfactory profits are to be won.
Financial stringency has, of course, hit
the motor and allied trades an exceptionally
hard blow. Australian imports of chassis
and parts for the 12 months to June 30
total £6,097,290, or over £3,100,000 less than
for the previous year. For the June quarter
the total was only £831,447, and prospects
of an early lift in the figures are not bright.
The board wrote last year’s net profit at
£211,141, or £46,651 less than the 1929
figure. The difference between that .and the
profit shown in the table represents the net
reduction in the various reserves; they
totalled £614,820 at June 30. There was a
special writing-off of £56,000-odd to cover the
loss on the sale of the co.’s old city premises
in 1929. Taking the movements into account,
and allowing for the pref. div., enough re-
mained to show 21.8 p.c. on ord. capital last
year as against 20.3, 15 and 32.4 p.c. in
the three preceding terms. But the board,
seeing difficulties ahead, decided to further
strengthen the co.’s finances, and reduced the
div. from 10 p.c. to 5 p.c. Immediately the
price of the scrip dropped from 225. to 155.,
and has lately eased to 95., the market fore-
seeing a steep decline in turnover. At the
lower price the return is .11.1 p.c. on a 5
p.c. div. basis. The A and B prefs.—there
are 300,000 of the former and 250,000 of
the latter —rank in the order Stated, carry
a fixed cumulative 8 p.c. and have priority
as to capital. Last year’s profit was over
four times their combined annual require-
ments, and the net tangible backing is £6
3s. sd. and £6 4s. Id. respectively. The
A’s are priced around 15s. 4d. and the B’s
around 135., the return being 10.4 p.c. and 12.3
p.c. respectively. At the prices stated the
market capitalises the undertaking at
£1,178,636 less than its net book value.
The co.’s house is in order: —
1923. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital . . 130,000 824,000 1,174,000 1,174,000
Liabilities . . 164,607 491,722 75,489 25,810
Freeholds . . 146,825 475,046 504,329 517,662
Plant and
mac-hinerv . . 53,779 416,605 754,016 795,531
Stocks, etc. . . 120,222 837,480 421,423 402,480
Book debts .. 38,228 133,973 172,759 93,263
Invest ments,
cash, etc. . . 2,164 9,184 23,237 106,410
Last year there was a drop of £79,496 in
book debts, and stocks were worked down
£18,943. Investments and cash were strength-
ened by £83,173; and £49,679 was knocked
off the debt. Thus the more or less liquid
surplus (£576,343, including stocks) was
£34,413 stronger than at the previous
balance. The plant is thoroughly up to date,
and reported in good order.
The co.’s chief contract is with General
Motors, and the bulk of the bodies turned out
are for Chevrolet cars. Results will largely
depend upon turnover.
Union Bank of Australia, Ltd.
Dividends. Writ-
Feb., Profits. (15 p.c.). ten Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 458,102 375,000 20,000 2,711,716
1921.. 516,340 375,000 20,000 2,833,057
Premiums on new shares, £400,000 3,233,057
1922.. 536,261 412,500 20,000 3,336,818
1923.. 552,894 450,000 3,439,712
1924.. 550,291 450.000 3,540,003
Premiums on new shares, £600,000 4,140,003
1925.. 590,399 487.500 4,242,902
1926.« 627,611 525,000 50,000 4,295,513
1927.. 627,426 525,000 50,000 4,347,939
Premiums on new shares, £600,000 4,947,939
1928.. 638,965 562,500 50,000) 1 (u 0
Provident fund, £25,000.. .. ) ’ ’
1929.. 611,932 600,000 25,000 4,936,336
(121 p.c.)
1930.. 525,655 500,000 25,000 4,936,991
“We felt that it was necessary to husband
the bank’s resources,” the chairman says, so
2| points were snipped off the div., reducing
it to 1,24 p.c. The saving amounted to
£lOO,OOO, and the rate of distribution is the
lowest since 1907, when it was lifted from
10 p.c. to 14 p.c. Also two of the four mil-
lions added to the share register during the
last decade brought with it £1,600,000. of share
premiums, which makes the 124 p.c. worth
no more than 6.9 p.c. on half the capital.
Moreover, the market now looks for an extra
1 p.c. on bank stock; hence the price of the
scrip (£l5 paid to £5) has eased from £l5
to £lO 10s. over the last 12 months. The
return at the latter figure is 5.9 p.c. on
last year’s rate of distribution. The visible
backing amounts to £ll 3s. sd. in net tan-
gibles.
After providing for contingencies—and it
can be taken for granted that the provision
was more than usual —gross profits were
£49,899 lighter than the previous year’s:—
1925. 1929. 1930.
Gross profit .. £1,430,714 £1,536,950 £1,487,051
Exes 840,315 925,018 961,396
Net Profit .. £590,399 £611,932 £525,655
Exes, sprang £36,378, of which £16,000 was
extra taxation. Thus the net result was
13.1 p.c. on average capital compared with
15.2, 17, 16.7 and 16.7 p.c. back to 1926.
"The immediate outlook is that exchange
and other earnings will be affected by re-
duced values and lessened trade activity.
Still, the admitted reserves are piled
£936,991 higher than paid capital, so the
two combined have to turn in . only 5.5 p.c.
net to pay a 12J p.c. div., and conditions
could probably get much worse before that
would cease to be possible. Incidentally, the
co. has never failed to make an annual dis-
tribution since it set up in 1837, a few years
before Australia’s first big financial depres-
sion.
The outstanding features of the sheet are
a contraction of £1,059,833 in deposits,
mainly current accounts, and a growth of
£2,440,420 in advances:—
Liabilities.
1925. 1929. 1930.
Notes .. .. £721,031 £579,729 £603,109
Deposits . . . . 33,995,484 35,644,350 34,584,517
Bills, etc. . . 4,005,166 3,507,051 2,386,052
Assets.
Liquid assets . . 20,060,779 18,127,290 13,481,658
Advances .. . . 26,274,751 30,454,431 32,894,851
Premises 391,553 385,745 384,160
For the most part the movements illustrate
the extent to which customers have had to
draw upon their liquid resources or lean
upon the bank pending realisation of pro-
ducts. The shrinkage of £1,120,999 in the
bills figures reflects the drop in imports. To
meet the adverse movements the co. drew
upon its liquids for £4,645,632, reducing
them to 7s. 2d. in the pound of total liabili-
ties to the public at June 30. Cash balances
and bullion then totalled 20.1 p.c. of deposits,
and the bank was holding only a trifle over
£4 of the public’s money for every pound
of its own.
Sargents, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 8,371 'lO p.c. = 10,624 20,639
Reserves capitalised, £25,000 .. f ,
1920.. 25,251 121 p.c. = 15,156 10,095 )
1921.. 20,079 10 „ „ 15,624 4,455 10,189
1922.. 26,566 12£ „ ~ 20,313 6,253 16,442
1923.. 16,728 10 „ „ 16,484 244 16,686
Profit on sale assets, £25,343 .. 42,029
1924.. 12,848 5 p.c. = 8,750 4,098 46,127
1925.. 34,328 15 „ „ 26,250 8,078 54,205
Profit on sale assets, £223 .. .. 54,428
1926.. 30,445 15 p.c. = 27,403 3,042 57,470
Profit on sale assets, £6550 .. .. 64,120
1927.. 88,869 15 p.c. = 32,686 6,173 70,293
Profit on sale assets, £6749 .. .. 77,042
1928.. 37,022 15 p.c. = 36,641 381 77,423
1929.. 40,007 15 „ „ 39,375 632 78,055
Unexplained reduction in reserves, £9908. . 68,147
1930.. 26,766 10 p.c. = 26,697 69 68,216
Unemployment, reductions in wages and
rationing of work have made the public
more careful of the fewer pence in its pocket.
Hence many office workers, who are pro-
bably the co.’s chief customers, think twice
about having a second pie these days. Partly
because of this there was a drop of £36,095
in Sargents’ gross profit (£305,554) last
year. Exes. (£278,778) were got back
£22,854, leaving a net shrinkage of £13,241.
The final figure was just over 10 p.c. on
average capital as against 15.2, 15.1, 17.8,
16.6 and 19.6 p.c. back to 1925. That is
disregarding movements in the capital assets
reserve, which has been built up out of
profits on the sale of freeholds over the last
seven years; it was drawn upon for £9908
last year, reducing it to £29,007. The div.
was cut from 15 p.c. to 10 p.c., and now
that rate is in danger. With distributions
close up to earnings, and not much visible
support for capital, divs. must fluctuate with
results, which are governed by trading con-
ditions. The security for the div., whatever
the rate, largely depends upon the adequacy
or otherwise of the allowance for deprecia-
tion and renewals —the latter a particularly
heavy item.
During the year a new co., Lucullus, Ltd.
(paid capital £212.000), welded the Mel-
bourne interests of Sargents and two other
catering concerns. The price paid for Sar-
gents’ assets was £160,000 in 23,000 8 p.c.
cum. prefs., 37,000 ords. . and a £lOO,OOO
mortgage at 61 p.c. No goodwill figured
in the deal. Thus far the new co. has main-
tained turnover, and paid a half-year’s pref.
div.
The deal is reflected in the accounts by
a reduction of £181,401 in the book value
of freeholds, a growth of £58,125 in share
holdings, and a spring of only £37,601 in the
amount out on mortgage (£57,398) :
1914. 1924. 1929. 1930.
Capital .. £lOO,OOO £175,000 £272,050 £285,924
Liabilities . . 55,842 82,646 371,693 272,105
Freeholds . . 49,975 128,550 576,428 395,027
Leaseholds . . 21,500 14,500 12,536 10,254
Plant, etc. .. 55,290 106,020 95,325* 81,119
Stock.. .. 13,301 20,324 29,431 29,166
Cash, debtors,
etc. .. 20,001 53,129 25,788 64,139
Shares in other
cos. . . 1,988 60',113
Apparently part of the Lucullus mortgage
was discounted; also £13,874 of fresh capi-
tal was got in during the year. Thus the
board was able to lop £79,172 off the amount
coming to mortgagees (£210,578), and
£19,005 off the overdraft (£11,660) and
£l4lO off the sundry creditor item (£49,868).
The excess of liabilities over more or less
liquids (£178,800, including stocks but not
shares) was reduced by £137,674 during the
year.
Nominal capital has been increased to
£500,000 by the creation of 200,000 new £1
shares. An immediate new issue is not con-
templated, but if money rates go any higher
shareholders might be asked for more in
order to lighten the weight of the mortgage
debt. The market prices the paids, which
have a net tangible backing of 245. Bd., at
17s. At the price the return would be 8.2
p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis.
Howard Investment Co. (Brisbane).
( Dividends
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1924.. 34,180 26 10 p.c. = 10,329 23,825 52,987
Reserves capitalised, £10,329 .. .. 42,658
1925.. 52,317 26 15 p.c. = 18,754 33,537 76,195
1926.. 69,606 26 15 „ „ 19,629 49,951 126,147
Taken from reserves, £8295 .. .. 117,852
1927.. 53,152 26 15 p.c. - 23,472 29,654 147,506
1928.. 37,952 26 15 „ „ 23,472 14,454 161,960
1929.. 26,211 26 121,, „ 19,560 6,625 168,585
1930.. 20,123 26 10 „ „ 15,647 4,450 173,035
This is a holding, finance and investment
co. For more than 20 years it was known
as Howard Motors, but the tightening grip
of overseas automobile manufacturers on
the motor-distributing trade in Australia has
curtailed agency rights in every direction,
and the co.’s interest in the motor trade has
been steadily fading out. In a concern less
carefully handled there would have been a
serious danger of over-capitalisation. How-
ever, as opportunity offered, funds not re-
quired in the business were invested else-
where.
It was in 1926 that the co., by arrange-
ment with General Motors, handed over its
business to six subsidiaries and ceased to
be directly engaged in the sale of motor-
cars. From a combination of causes conditions
in the trade have since grown steadily worse.
Two of the operating cos. were put into
liquidation in 1929. Though the chief sub-
sidiary, Metropolitan Motors, made little
or no profit last year, and two others were
put into liquidation, returns from invest-
ments, etc., enabled a 10 p.c. div. to be
paid. Incidentally, the average rate paid
during the" co.’s lifetime has been a bit over
10 p.c.
Interest on bills, rents, divs., etc.
(£40.404) brought in £15,364 less than in
the previous term. Exes. (£20,281) were
£9276 lighter, leaving the year’s net
profit at 12.9 p.c. on capital compared
with 16.7, 24.2, 35.4 and 52.6 p.c.
back to 1926. It is becoming increasingly
difficult owing to the used-car problem, heavy
operating exes, and taxation to make any
profit at all out of motor trading. The
present contracts between General Motors
and tlie subsidiary cos. expire in October,
and further restrictions of territory, etc., have
been proposed. It is not the co. s
intention to accept the new conditions,
so unless some agreement is Metro-
politan Motors will give up motor trading,
and sell its assets as opportunity occurs.
A year ago less than a fourth of the
co.’s capital and reserves was invested m
shares in subsidiaries, and very hkely that
proportion has since been reduced. Halance-
slieet groupings obscure the position, though
it is obviously comfortable: —
1926. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital. . £131,285 £156,905 £156,905 £156,905
Mortgage . 10,000 10,000 10,000 *
Liabilities .. 139,629 36,621 35,682 31,675
Freehold . . 63,472 72,460 72,610 74,561
Plant, etc. . . 4,372 90 113 154
Stocks . . 106,491 -
Book debts, in-
vestments, etc. 253,814 296,278 321,326 297,782
Prepayments. . 783 179 156 106
Cash, etc. . . 7,783 31,126 7,703 15,836
Reserves now amount to £173,035, or £16,130
in excess of paid capital. Moreover, cer-
tain provision has been made for pos-
sible losses on liquidation in the subsid-
iaries themselves. Whether the provision is
adequate, or whether the parent’s own re-
serves will have to be cut into, only the
future can prove. The co. has £74,561 in
freeholds, a large portion of which have
become vacant since the liquidation of four
of the subsidiaries. The two main proper-
ties (facing each other in Adelaide-street)
are in excellent condition; one was only
recently built. But freeholds are hard _to
either let or sell at present. The co.’s active
subsidiaries are now Metropolitan Motors
(Brisbane) .and Autocars, Ltd. (Too-
woomba).
Net tangibles amount to 425. per share. The
market prices the scrip at 235. 6d., at which
figure the return is 8.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis.
George Farmer, Ltd.
, Dividends. N
Net Prefs. Towards
Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
June, 33,938
1920.. 17,136 4800 10 p.c. = 4,565]
Adjustment payment to vendors, 1 2,985 30,953
£4786 J
1921.. 17,228 4800 10 p.c. = 6,000 6,428 24,525
1922.. 21,144 4800 15 „ „ 9,000 7,344 17,181
1923.. 29,675 4800 25 „ ~15,000 9,875 7,306
1924.. 2,0,146 4800 20 „ ~12,000 3,346 3,960
Reserves.
1925.. 27,849 4800 20 „ ~12,000 11,049 7,089
Assets written up, £20,000 . . . . 27,089
1926.. 27,184 4800 20 p.c. =12,000 10,384 37,473
Reserves capitalised, £30,000 .. .. 7,473
1927.. 25,414 4800 18 p.c. =16,200 4,414 11,887
1928.. 21,334 4800 16 „ ~14,400 2,134 14,021
1929.. 17,943 4800 14 „ ~12,600 543 14,564
1930.. 15,456 4800 10 ~ ~ 9,000 1,656 16,220
For some years after this co. took over the
old ham-and-bacon business of George
Farmer in 1919, ord. shareholders were on
the pig’s back. Two 10 p.c. divs. were fol-
lowed by one of 15 p.c., another of 25 p.c.
and three of 20 p.c. to the close of accounts
in 1926. Then the; fatness was larded with
£30,000 of gift scrip (one for two), and
the div. dropped to 18 p.c. in the following-
year. But conditions in the trade have
changed greatly. Competition and price-cut-
ting have narrowed profit margins and helped
to keep overhead up; hence the steepness of
the decline in the profit figures and the reces-
sion of the div. rate over the last four years.
Despite trying circumstances gross profits
for the last 12 months (£33,543) improved
a trifle; but additional exes, swallowed all
of the increase and £2487 besides. After
handing the prefs. their £4BOO, there was only
enough to show 11.8 p.c. on ordinary capital
compared with 14.6, 18.3 and 22.9 p.c. for
the three preceding terms, so four points
were lopped off the div., reducing it to 10
p.c. And that rate cannot be regarded as
secure.
The co. is in good fettle financially:—
1Q99 IQ9fi IQ9O IQ9H
Paid capital. . £120,000 £120,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities . . 1,838 2,931 6,829 2,591
Premises . . 16,105 42,000 50,248 49,19
Plant, etc. . . 15,386 31,569 30,875 29,753
Stocks . . 23,928 26,550 40,767 31,181
Book debts . . 29,416 34,668 36,609 36,739
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 31,470 37,717 22,694 31,593
Last year stocks (book value) were worked
down £9586. Together with surplus earn-
ings and the allowance for depreciation, this
enabled the board to snip £4238 off the debt,
and strengthen the holding in cash and public
securities by £8899. The improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£96,992, in-
cluding stocks) was £3681. Plant is said to
be thoroughly modern and in good condition.'
The market prices the ords. at 255. as
against 455. a year ago. The return at the
lower figure is 8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The backing is 225. 7d. in net tangibles,
mainly fixed assets, worth what they can
be made to earn. The net tangible cover
for the prefs. is 555. 3d. They carry a fixed
cumulative 8 p.c. with priority as to capital,
and can be had around par.
(“Wild Cat ” continued on next page.)


Watch Your
Step /
•
These are days when a man
may lose the savings of a life-
time.
These are days when a man
may lay the foundations of a
fortune.
The thing is to know. “The
‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” has im-
mense data at its disposal and
a staff of specially trained in-
vestigators and accountants.
It will help you to save losses
and make gains.
SEPTEMBER NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/- ;
PER ANNUM,-22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Inventors.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffth, Patent Attorneys, 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth
and foreign patents.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. —Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Exchange
Arranged. Geo. E. Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria
Buildings, Corner Collins and Swanston Streets, Mel-
bourne.—Advt.
❖ * ❖ ❖
The great saving effected in pipe-line construction
by the specification of “Pioneer” Wood Pipe is not
solely due to the fact that its first cost is so much
less. Handling costs, laying and maintenance are
all on a similar low level —so that all-round econo-
mies are gained. The service rendered by this
modern conduit is of the highest. standard of effi-
ciency. Write for interesting literature, post free,
to the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay
Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.;
and at Footscray, Victoria.— Advt.
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.—Norman Hill & Co.,
Ltd., Cathcart House, Sydney, Rep. largest American
and European Smelters. Buyers Dirty Tin Ores,
Copper, Lead, Gold, Silver, Antimony, Wolfram,
Scheelite, Tantalite, Molybdenite, and other ores and
concentrates. Properties examined and reported on.
—Advt.
* * *
Timmsville Timber Co., Ltd., Ulong, Dorrigo
District (N.S.W.), invites inquiries for select North
Coast mountain hard and soft woods, wholesale and
export lots. Steady supplies, graded, in sap or kiln-
dried. Electrical installation. Write or ’phone
direct, or to Sydney Office, 46 Trafalgar Street,
Annandale.— Advt.
* * Hs
Bismuth.— We are buyers of Bismuth Concentrates
in any quantity. Write, giving particular's of
quantity available, and send samples to Elliott
Brothers, Limited, Box 494 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
—Advt.
* * st: *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
ia the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
Greater EFFICIENCY
Greater BUSINESS
Greater efficiency begets greater
business and greater business
means increased profits. The
Alexander Hamilton Institute in
its inspiring book “Forging
Ahead in Business’’ reveals how
success follows efficiency. Every
business man, every wage earner
should read it. Write TO-DAY
for a free copy. It will show you
that efficiency in business not only
pays —but pays promptly !
ALEXANDER HAMILTON INSTITUTE
Division in Australia of
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON.
MELBOURNE: 38 Bank House, Bank Place,
Off 410-412 Collins Street.
SYDNEY: 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack Street.
Pl 2
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 18/2.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Banic offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
The Picture Cos.
Since 1926, when J. C. Williamson and
Hoyts merged their picture interests, the two
big organisations—Hoyts and Union —are
known to have spent between them over
£3,000,000, largely in an effort to outvie
each other in the erection of build-
ings in the capital cities, in buying strings
of suburban and country theatres, and in
installing talkie equipment. But economic
developments have now restricted lavish
expenditure, and each co. recently ceased out-
bidding the other in the film markets. Also
there was talk lately of the two merging
their interests into one big combine. Latest
developments have turned in quite a different
direction.
Last week George Tallis and F. W.
Thring, managing directors of Hoyts, sold
most of their shares in the co., and with
them control, to Fox Film Corporation,
U.S.A., thus ensuring closer association be-
tween the producing and exhibiting sections
of the industry—an association which has
been a marked feature of the motion-picture
business in the United States, Canada and
England: the Fox co. controls 1160 theatres
in the U.S.A. and 350 in Britain. The
quantity of scrip sold and the price paid
have not been disclosed. Each of the ven-
dors will retain his seat on the board, which
'is to be strengthened by the addition of
Clifford Minter and C. E. Munro.
Since 1926 Hoyts lias added £649,000 to
its share register, raising the total to
£2,285,000 at June 30. The public is inter-
ested in two lots of prefs.—4oo,ooo “A’s”
and 450,000 “B’s” —both of which carry a
fixed cumulative 8 p.c., and rank in the order
stated for capital and dividend. The
935,000 “C” 10 p.c. non-cum. prefs. and
500,000 ords. were issued in payment for
the assets of the amalgamating groups, in-
cluding something unspecified for goodwill.
The co.’s recent history in regard to profits
and dividends has been as follows:
, Dividends
Net “A’’ & “B” “C” Nominal
June, Profit. 8 p.c. 5 p.c. Ords. Reserves.
£>£,£, Sj
1927.. 112,047 17,307 29,524 Nil 65,216
To vendor, £32,894 .. .. .. 32,322
1928.. 107,877 41,469 750* Nil 97,980
Written off, £11,728
Guarantee, £4200f . . . . . . 82,052
1929.. 100,390 59,391 750* Nil 122,301
Written off, £7076.
Guarantee, £4200f .. .. .. 111,025
1930.. 81,850 49,907 750* Nil 142,218
Guarantee, £4200f .. .. .. 138,018
*Guaranteed div. on 7500 “C” shares.
(Guaranteed to Picture Investments Pty., Ltd.
Although the past year’s net profit was suffi-
cient to satisfy the combined requirements on
the “A” and “B” shares (the balance was 1.3
p.c. on the “C” share capital), no final div.
was paid to the “B’s,” because of the, co.’s
heavy commitments. In the market the
“B’s” are priced at 9s. and the “A’s” at
16s. Allowing for the accrued div. the
return at those prices is 19.5 p.c. and 10 p.c.
respectively.
The building programme and the installa-
tion of talkie equipment added £38,268 to
the overdraft and £132,834 to the sundry
creditors’ item last year:—
1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital .. £2,005,746 £2,280,793 £2,285,000
Mortgages, etc. . . 310,885 272,635 185,260
Overdraft . . 100,024 132,697 170,365
Sundry creditors. . 118,639 186,431 322,265
Freehold *. . 545,166 606,911 367,322
Leasehold, plant,
goodwill, etc... 971,848 1,044,104 1,440,748
Shares other cos. 717,673 738,659 813,516
Book debts, etc. . . 382,660 593,907 495,322
At the close of accounts floating liabilities,
including the div., were £15,308 in excess of
book debts, etc., which includes £280,840
advanced to subsidiaries to buy freeholds and
build theatres. The reduction in the mort-
gage, and freehold items, and the addition to
the book value of shares in other cos., is due
largely to the formation of a new subsidiary,
in which the parent has guaranteed £225,000
of mortgage debt.
The co.’s largest competitor is Union
Theatres ; and it is suggested that this co.,
which' runs the State group, among others,
may associate itself with the Paramount
producers. A struggle between the two groups
is a possibility of the future. Excluding that
possibility, association with the Fox organi-
sation should mean much to Hoyts, but the
heavy load of debt and large outlay on
premises are big handicaps. The co. will be
fortunate if it is able to pull through without
readjusting its capital account.
Bawra.
Lately there has been a lot of loose talk
about the huge profits made by the British
Government out of Australian woolgrowers
during the war. It is all venomous non-
sense. _ What happened was that Australia,
following the outbreak of war, was up
against a critical financial position if its wool
could not be sold and financed. Buyers were
not operating, and freights were exceedingly
difficult to get. The British Government
solved the problem by buying the whole Aus-
tralian clip, good, bad and indifferent, at
a flat rate of per pound on a greasy
basis. It was a generous price, 55 p.c.
above the average realised for the year imme-
diately preceding the war, and infinitely more
than could have been hoped for under any
other conditions. Four clips were thus bought,
total payments amounting to £160,000,000.
And then about £60,000,000, being half the
profits on realisation, was handed back to
Australian woolgrowers. In other words,
they got an astonishingly high flat rate and
half the profits on realisation without carry-
ing a farthing of the risks.
It was to handle the huge carry-over
(2,691,756 bales) that Bawra was formed
in 1921. It sold its last bale in May, 1924,
and the liquidators took over in June, 1926.
The time since has been largely occupied in
litigation concerning taxation. To date the
co. has distributed nearly £30,000,000 to
woolgrowers. At June 30 the liquidators held
assets with an aggregate book value of
£1,011,104: Government securities, £651,000
(cost) ; cash, £330,890; book debts, £12,644;
freeholds, £16,570. But until taxation ques-
tions now before the court, involving
£363,282 (Sd. per share), are disposed of,
no final distribution can be made. The free
surplus amounts to a shade over Is. per
share, which the market prices at Is. 3d.
Broken Hill Prop.
It looks like the end of the B. H. Prop.’s
old original mine: not only have all miners
and surface-hands been paid off, but the
staff lias been dispersed—for the first time
in 45 years; the co. was foi-med in 1885, a
year after tenders had been called for sink-
ing the first shaft —“particulars to be had
from David James at the Nine Mile Tank.”
Dave James was a contractor on McCul-
loch’s Mt: Gipps station, and the syndicate
seems to have concluded that as he knew how
to scoop out a tank he ought to know how
to dig a bit of a shaft.
The mine is not, of course, picked clean;
no mine of that size ever is. And in the
case of the B. H. Prop, the difficulty in
the way of finding and following every scrap
of ore has been tremendously increased by ;
the fire which broke out underground in
the early ’nineties, and probably still burns:
it has never been possible to closely explore
some of the affected area. Incidentally,
W. 11. Patton, the first of the American
mine superintendents, was imported mainly
because of his success in dealing with a fire
on the Comstock: .an American manager
would have been introduced anyhow, but
that swung the choice liis way. Of the big
mine’s general managers Sam Wilson was
an Australian, Patton and John Howell
Americans, Alexander Stewart a Scotsman,
G. D. Delprat a Dutchman with experience
at the Rio Tinto and elsewhere, and Essing-
ton Lewis an Australian. Mr. Lewis arrived,
however, only when the iron and .steel busi-
ness overshadowed the mine,- and he - left
the oversight of the latter to E. J. Hor-
wood, the Vic.-trained engineer who has been
the co.’s mine surveyor or mines superinten-
dent for over 40 years.
Under favorable conditions it will pay to
explore certain parts of the property and
work certain known bodies of ore. But the
circumstances of the metal market will have
to be much more favorable than they are
to-day, and when, if ever, the work is done,
it will probably be undertaken by a neigh-
boring co.
In a radio from Papua last week an old
friend of the “Wild Cat” tells it that a rich
patch of alluvial has been located on the
upper Tauri, four days west of Nepa, in the
Central Western Division. The Tauri runs
into the Gulf of Papua some miles west of
the Lakekamu, and takes a sharp turn to the
nor’-west some miles from the coast. Nepa is
the Government station on the western
boundary of the Lakekamu goldfield, one of
the last important alluvial finds in Papua,
but now worked out. The new ground should
be about 50 miles to the west, in the foothills
of the Albert Range, in which the Tauri is
believed to rise.
❖ ❖ -i- *
Gt. Boulder, which has been consistently
unlucky in its choice of “other interests,”
deserves a turn up. Golden Zone (Kalgoorlie),
O.K. (Norseman) and a “mine” in Canada
were the first shows acquired. They were
considered promising at the start, but were
described as unpayable at the finish. Car-
men Valley-(Colombia) was next tried. This
speculation stands in the books at £37,000.
Work has been stopped, and with a view of
obtaining independent opinion negotiations
have been entered into with some French
experts. Boulder’s chief “other interest”
to-day is a wad of Wiluna shares, which may
provide some divs. by and by.
* * * *
Even a good show like the South Kal-
gurli cannot go on for ever. Following the
recent announcement that the 25 p.c. p.a.
div., paid regularly during the past 10 years,
must be reduced comes the official news that i
the monthly profit has slipped from £2250
to £l5OO. Shareholders have done well, and
as the rich ore-shoot at the 1600 ft. level
is not exhausted yet, it will probably be some
time before the mine is handed over to the 1
tributers.
Alluvial Tin, the first Australian Malayan
co. to take a two months’ holiday under the
restriction scheme, is getting into the collar
again. Also Rawang commenced this week;
and next week Kuala Kampar, Changkat,
Rawang Concessions, Kampong Lanjut and
Kramat will resume digging. Kundang, an-
other of the closed-down group, will remain
idle for the present. Charges incurred by
the companies shut during August were:
Rawang £1446, Kuala Kampar £1376, Chang-
kat £606, Rawang Concessions £B4O, Kam-
pong Lanjut £1575, Kramat £lOO3 and
Kundang £233.
Austral Malay has four of its six proper-
ties resting; the two latest additions to the
list, Puchong and Pungah, are still working.
Puchong turned out 32 tons for August,
averaging .601 b. to the yard. Realisation
was £2680, and working costs at 4.7 d. per
yard £2375. Pungah recovered 47 tons at
an average of .641 b. per yard. This was
worth £3OOO, and costs at 3.7 d. per yard
came to £2575. -Prices obtained for the ore
were £B4 for Puchong and £B3 for Pungah.
* * # *
Re a reply in “Questions Answered” to
a correspondent who asked the name of the
lidding co. of G. F., Sewell Pty., of Foots-
cray (Vic.), the “Wild Cat” is informed
that “the controlling interest in the firm is
held by Melbourne Iron and Steel Mills Pty.,
Ltd.” Mr. A. Timmins, who was described
(B. 3/9/’3O) as “owner of the business,” is,
in fact, director of the latter co.
.** * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transfeircd from Service Department.)
(1) Are there any deposits of magnesite
(carbonate of magnesia) near rail in
N.S.WJ (2) Cost of chloride of magnesia—
ton, any deposits or who sells? (3) Names
of any firms manufacturing flooring or tiling
from these ingredients? —B7ol.
(1) Principal deposits of magnesite in
N.S.W. are at Fifield, 12 miles from Gobon-
dry railway station, and Attunga, 8 miles
from Attunga station. (2) Chloride of mag-
nesia is a manufactured product, and is
quoted at about ss. 6d. per lb. Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., Sydney, sell it. The Fifield Magnesite
and Refractories C 0.,. Ltd., Camellia, can
supply raw or calcined magnesite. (3) N. S.
Wales Mines Department is not aware of
any firms which manufacture magnesia floor-
ing or'tiling. C. P. Curlewis and Co., Ltd.,
Mitchell-road, .Alexandria, might undertake
it.
(1) Is mineral pitch in an irregular pocket
of shale, found, outcropping, supported by a
sheet of dolerite, dipping at 45 deg. any indi-
cation, of mineral oil? (2 ) Is mineral pitch
of any commercial value?— B492.
(1) The mineral pitch may be a residuum
of petroleum, but occurring as described it
would seem rather to have resulted from
the destructive distillation of organic matter
in the shale by the heat of the associated
intrusive igneous rock. (2) Mineral pitch,
such as that of Trinidad,, is in demand for
road-making purposes. Price varies greatly :
the 1928 imports to Australia were valued at
a little over £5 per ton.
(1) I believe I have struck a good mica
patch in Queensland. How could I deter-
mine whether it is worth going on with?
Also, best markets? (2) Any special mach-
inery needed for a two-man show, and suit-
able textbooks on mining mica? —B233.
(1) Get in touch with Q’land Mines
Department, Brisbane, and send them a fair
average sample of the mica which has been
found, together with particulars regarding
its occurrence. They will then determine
whether the mica is of commercial grade
and will advise on its exploitation, and after-
wards on markets which might be found
for it. (2) No special machinery is required
in the early stages. Experience is, of course,
valuable, but the main fact to consider is
that explosives destroy the good features of
mica if it possesses any. No textbooks
available, although there are a number of
official publications on the subject in various
countries.
Names of any gold-dredging cos. operat-
ing in New Guinea and their Melbourne or
Sydney offices? Are Austral Guinea and
Austral Malay one and the same co.? —8816.
No dredging cos. operating yet, though
Bulolo Gold Dredging is preparing to instal
a dredging plant on the river of that name.
Address is Wingello House, Sydney. We
do not know Austral Guinea. There is a
Guinea Austral; there is no connection be-
tween it and Austral Malay.
Under what conditions can mining licenses
in the Federal Capital Territory be held?—
8819.
At present a permit to mine or prospect
for minerals in the Territory cannot be
granted, for the reason, inter alia, that lands
in the Territory are “exempted Crown Lands”
within the meaning of the N. S. Wales Min-
ing Act of 1906 in its application to the
Territory. The Department of Home Affairs
advises that a Mining Ordinance for the
Territory has received the Governor-General’s
approval, but has not yet been brought into
force, pending the drafting of Regulations
under the Ordinance.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
E.Q.: On the prospects of the building
industry, it would be risky. .. .R..T.N.: In the general
deflation, land values will fall with the rest. Empty
suburban lands will probably have the greatest fall
of a 11... .Enquirer: The astonishingly successful
manner in which the C.S.R. has hitherto escaped or
overcome dangers must be responsible for the present
optimism. Without that, the co. would be regarded
as facing a very black cloud. And so it is
W.G.8.: A.M.P. among mutual and M.L.C. among
co-operative offices come nearest to your description.
. ...F.H.G.: Both are attractive gambles. But tfiey
arc gambles. .. .M. 1.8.: (1) No. (2) They claim to;
but it is not yet proved. (3) Of B. H. North’s half-
million or so of investments, £300,000 is in the
smelters at Port Pirie, and £150,000 in the Electro-
lytic Zinc Co 8.G.D.: Not listed on any exchange,
and they would probably be very hard to 5e11....
W.A.R.: A gamble. A success may be a big win;
but the chances that it will fail are 20 to 1....
A.S.CJ.: No, risk too great at present. . . .1.1.1.: Don’t
know anything so valuable as money at the moment.
Keep it till the outlook is clearer.


W^o
MB
■
k
if
iii!
i
IH
i?
w
ssa
!i
*
.
£
111
II
38
■
m lr
m
W&
m
ipA
m
im
m
.. • ■ • ‘■ : •
m
ssM
m
*§§
m
SB®
ir
i mxm
r, N >:
23
J a> V(i
lsjrV-
and m tins of
50andl00
CORK TIPPED VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
MANY a smoker would, choose
Country Life for the better blend
of Virginia Tobacco alone. Some would
favour them for the cork-tips. Others
would buy them for the handy, swagger
tin. Considering that these three popular
features are combined with lower price
as well —-23 cigarettes.( 3 more than
the usual 20 ] for 1/6 —the reason for
Country Life's popularity is easily seen.
Made in Your Own Country
at the Garden Factory—
! . Raleigh Park -byW. D &
H O. Wills (Australia) Ltd


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
*:«« »| **)\\*A
id? 51
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff. Day. Week.
Single Room and Meals .. .. 25/- 168/-
Double Room and Meals .. .. 45/- 300/-
Single Room and Breakfast .. 15/- 100/-
Double Room and Breakfast .. 27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
VICHY *
m
r.,i
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled —Insist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SHARP
Owing to special
process in manu-
facture of the lead,
the “ Mephisto ”
Copying Pencil
lasts much longer,
yet writes easily
and smoothly with-
out heavy pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
sa
\
THE POPULAR
COPYING PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checki g, etc.
From all Stationers, etc.
h. * C. HAKDTMUTH. of “ KOH-I-NOOR ” Pencil fame.
London Office— 29. Kinfraway. W.C.2
Australian Representative—
JOHN MAODOUGALL. P O. Box 165, SYDNEY.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Jamal”: “Prince Alberts,” the name given
by old-time swagmen to strips of rag bound
round the feet and worn instead of socks,
are rarely met with these days, but a near
relation was displayed by a recent caller at
our hut. This gentleman’s “socks” consisted
of pieces of foot-square flannel upon which
lie placed his foot cornerwise. After bring-
ing up the sides and covering the toes he
HE’D MET THAT JOKE BEFORE.
SALESMAN: “You’ll find these collars simply laugh at the laundry, sir."
CUSTOMER: “Yes, I know—and come back with their sides split.”
held the lot in place whilst the boot was
slipped on. He swore they were more com-
fortable and lasted longer than any other
sort of footgear.
“Dick”: “Wrash’s” yarn about the pros-
pector who let a windlass go when his
mate was in the bucket (B. 20/8/’3O) sug-
gests a few “don’ts.” If the handle should
escape from you, don’t
grab at it. More
likely than not you’ll
break your arm if you
do. Instead grab up
a bag, your coat or
anything of the kind,
drop it over the wind-
lass barrel, put an
arm over it, and
squeeze the barrel be-
tween your arm and
chest. This puts on
the brake, as it were,
and pulls up the wind-
lass after a few
turns. If you can’t
get anything to pro-
tect your skin, put
your bare arm over it.
The worst that can
happen to you is no-
thing compared to tk«
awful mess your mate
will be in if he drops
smash on to the bot-
tom. As a matter of
precaution it is as
well to have a brake.
A good one can be
made out of a length
of three-inch rope.
Tie one end to the
windlass support,
carry it over the wind-
lass barrel, tie it in a
clove hitch loosely
around the barrel and
tether the free end to
the place where the
other end is tied. To
use the brake, grab
either rope, pull it
across the shaft to
stop it slipping off the
barrel, and tighten it
steadily. This will
pull it up without a
sudden jerk. And if you strike the sort of
mate who reaches for his pipe when he
holds your life in his hands —get another
mate.
❖ ❖ ❖ *
“Smilax” : Woolbags, motoring to Brisbane
for the first time, made a halt at the Mud-
flats post office and inquired the distance to
Charleville. Being informed that it was ten
miles, he set off at a furious bat; but after
an hour and a half, no Charleville having
shown on the horizon, he hailed a swaggie,
who reckoned that Charleville would be
“about 40 mile from ’ere.” Cursing the
fellow for his stupidity, Woolbags continued
for another half-hour until he caught up
HE RECOGNISED IT AT ONCE.
SQUATTER: “I picked up a shilling to-day, Jacky, a hundred years old!”
JACKY: “You gibbet me, Boss. My gran’father him losem that one long time ’fore
white man ’e come here.”
with a cocky who after much cogitation said
Charleville must be 50 miles away. Con-
vinced that he had blundered upon a colony
of imbeciles, the unfortunate motorist inquired,
more of H'eaven than of the cocky, how the
blinking Hades Charleville could be 50 miles
from there when it had been only ten from
Mudflats. That name seemed to strike a
chord in dad’s memory, and he allowed the
ghost of a smile to agitate his whiskers as
he remarked, “Well darn it, Mister, you can’t
expect to get nearer if yer keep on drivin’
in the wrong direction, can yer?”
% * * *
“Eureka”: Dad sent the pommy to the
barn to feed the horses. “Just give them
chaff without any oats to-day; they’ve been
doing nothing all the week,” dad told him.
Choom returned after a few minutes. “I
couldn’t find any oats in the barn, sir, so
I gave ’em the chaff without bran,” he told
dad apologetically.
sit * * *
“Hori Pikau” : Henare Waipiro had been
suffering with stomach trouble, not uncon-
nected with overdoses of whisky, and the
doctor put him on a light diet. Yesterday,
walking into a restaurant, I sighted tire
invalid sailing into a substantial meal.
“How’s this, H'enare?” I asked. “I thought
the doctor had told you to cut out steak and
onions.” Henare waxed indignant. “Tat
toctor te tarn humpug, ehoa —no proomin’
good a man starving himserra [himself] to
death to ket petter!”
sic * * *
“C.A.8.”: Dad had bought a car and,
studying its innards, he had acquired a wealth
of technical terms. Then one evening Dave
brought Gwendolyn, his intended, along for
inspection by the old folks. She proved charm-
ing but loquacious. A query by Dave later
elicited Dad’s opinion: “She’s got nice.
headlamps and a well-shaped chassis; color
scheme not bad, plenty of pace without being
too fast, but, dammit, Dave, she’s got no
silencer!”
i*c Jje ❖ ❖
“Oxome'ter”: For 55 years old Jimmy
Brittle has worked his station, and
he has built up a reputation as a good neigh-
bor and a white man along the Central
Q’land coast. He’s not fussy, and the loss
of a few calves now and again doesn’t do
much damage to his philanthropic neigh-
borly instincts. But recently his stockmen
yarded a whole mob of cows whose calves
bore- a neighbor’s brand. Responding to an
invitation, George Mac Jones, who owned
that brand, came to the station yard. Jimmy,
greeting his neighbor a little less cordially
than usual, pointed out the cows and calves,
remarking that it was up to George to
explain how it came that station cows were
mothering calves with a foreign brand. “Beats
me,” said George, his eyes round with inno-
cent surprise. “I’ve worked among cattle
for 40 years, and I’ve never seen calves take-
up with strange mothers like that. I s’pose
I ought to take the calves home and wean
’em, but I’d never get them away without
knocking your cows about. You’ve always
been a good neighbor, Mr. Brittle, and I’d
be obliged if you’d accept them calves as a
present.” Jimmy gasped slightly, and then
accepted the generous offer with profuse
thanks. As Mac Jones said afterwards,
Jimmy seemed immensely relieved at escap-
ing a row with a neighbor.
* * * *
“Joe Cose”: She paused and stared into
the window. A live Murray-river tortoise on
show had attracted her attention. She set
her chin and marched into the shop. “You
ought to be ashamed of yourself,” she
shouted, addressing Toni, “The fish are
dead; they don’t matter. But that poor
little porcupine thing—why, it’s sheer
cruelty to dumb animals ! Why don’t you
let it go? Will you. please?” The Thracian
pondered. “You huy heem, eh?” Miss Sen-
sitive meditated. “How much?” she asked.
“You can take heem for a bob, yes?” was
the reply. Struggling a little in a sugar-
bag, Mr. Tortoise was carried a few hun-
dred yards through the city, the water,
dripping from the bag, leaving a trai,l.
Came Prince’s Bridge over Melbourne’s
Yarra. “No,” said Miss Sensitive; “it
looks too muddy.” So off she went to St.
Kilda by electric tram. At a deserted part
of the beach the tortoise was released and
pushed off into the salt surf with a bene-
volent “Now, off you go!” And off he
went, saved from the soup-pot, only to be
pickled in brine.
* * * *
“Dai R.”: It is an article of faith with
thousands of bush'men that gidya-wood ash
has remarkable bread-leavening properties.
I’ve never used it myself, but recently I
ate some damper at the camp of a Q’land
surveyor that was as light and flaky as the
best baker’s bread, and he assured me that
the only raiser used was gidya ashes. Quan-
dong kernels, baked and ground to a powder,
were frequently used by old-timers as a
substitute when hops or baking powder ran
out, and nardoo seed is also credited with
having some virtue in that direction. There
may be commercial possibilities in these old
discoveries.
* * * ip
“Persian”: I’ve had a little wild-cat from
the bush given to me—at least, the donor
said it was wild and straight from the busli;
but I dunno. It is very black and has a
sinful temper. It won’t drink milk. It
won’t eat raw meat. After exhaustive experi-
ments, however, I’ve discovered that it will
eat raw cauliflower, tinned salmon, spinach,
gherkins, maraschino cherries, cold rice
pudding, and anything out of a can. Open-
ing a small tin of caviare I offered Kitty
some. It took it. If that cat’s wild I’m
prehistoric.
THE OPTIMIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The country’s in a fix,” they say. “It’s
loaded down with debt;
The bloomin’ outlook's pretty grey—it may
be greyer yet.
They’re taxin’ people more and more, an’
no one can forecast
\\ hat we must struggle through before the
worst of it is past.”
Perhaps they’re right, perhaps they’re wrong
—whichever way it goes,
I simply lump my swag along the roads a
rover knows.
With all he needs to eat and smoke, a bed
beneath the sky,
A man would be a whinin’ bloke to drop his
swag an’ cry.
I never dealt in high finance—the highest
I have got
Was twenty quid. I made it dance, till Bung
had copped the lot.
But I have learned, what some forget, in
my lone, wasted past:
I’ve never known a hard road yet that
didn’t change at last.
VICTORIA.
P. T. F.


STOCK FOR MARKET
Every Head Full Value
O'-
tm
m
01
. .W”
If those are the figures you want to secure
Consign Cattle, Sheep, Lambs, Pigs, to
Winchcombe.Carson
LTD.
Salesmen, Homebush Yards, Sydney; or
Enoggera Yards, Brisbane.
OFFICES:
Winchcombe House, 99-101 Eagle St„
Bridge St., Sydney. Brisbane,
5H
TecalemiT Ltd.
LUBRICATION EXPERTS
MITRE HOUSE, SCRUBBS LANE,
WILLESDEN, LONDON, N.W. 10
LUBRICATION BY AUTOMATIC
HAND GUNS.
HIGH PRESSURES WITH CLEANLINESS
AND AUTOMATIC ACTION OPERATED
BY ONE HAND ONLY .
(Slide-on or Push-on Connectors.)
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street Perth
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street Adelaide
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty., Ltd., Bateman Street .. Melbourne
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street Sydney
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street ~ Brisbane
Factory Representative:
Mr. James Thornell, 312 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“O.'H.V.”: As “Gridder” says, the ordinary
push-bike is a treacherous and bloodthirsty
cow when it feels a novice in the saddle, but
the experiences it gives its riders aren’t to
be compared with the thrills a motor-cyclist
gets the first time he attaches a side-car to
his mount. Usually he takes it out empty for
a start, just to get the hang of it, having-
been warned that three-wheel driving isn’t
the same as two. My own experience is
typical of that of most motor-cyclists I
have swapped notes with. I set off Avith
great _ care, crawling round corners, and not
relishing the sideways pull of the added
chariot. But nothing untoward happened
ALL-BUT!
CAPTAIN: “That be rum animal ’ee be milkin’, John William. Looks to me like old
mongrel!”
JOHN WM.: “That where ’ee be wrong, Cap’n. Barrin’ bit o’ Shorthorn an’ Ayrshire,
she be pure-bred Jersey.”
and I attempted to take a corner with the
side-car inside the bend at a fair pace. I
couldn’t get round! Some invisible power
took charge of the handle-bars, and before
I comprehended what was happening I had
charged into the kerb on the opposite side
of the road, bending front forks, buckling
front wheel and twisting frame. I told the
garage man of my sad experience and he
laughed most heartily. Then he drew dia-
grams to explain how centrifugal force had
to be combated on corners, and how a pas-
senger’s weight improved the steerability in
such cases. “But,” he said—and this rankled
—“in your case, if I were you, I’d take a
load of bricks.”
x x * x
“Unity”: The mysterious rumblings re-
corded by “Up North” (B. 20/8/’3O) are
also experienced in many parts of Maoriland,
and are particularly noticeable in the hinter-
land beyond Poverty Bay. There in the
hilly country, through which innumerable
streams run, on still mornings may be heard
distant sounds resembling heavy gunfire,
which’ tail off into low subterranean rumb-
lings and mutterings similar to the sounds
that accompany certain types of earthquake.
Settlers round the vicinity refer to the
reports as “river guns,” and I once stayed
on a station which mustered a riding party
one early morn intent on tracing the sounds
to their source. After their departure we heard
the guns” rumbling for hours, but the riders
who had endeavored to follow the direction
from which the sounds usually came returned
to report they had heard nothing at all.
Henare attributes the distant thudding to a
supernatural origin, and mutters darkly of
the anger of an up-river god.
$
“E.S.”: A person who is known only in
one-horse places is the town secretary. He
is known to everybody, and makes it his
business to know everybody. He is secre-
tary to the hospital, the jockey club, the pro-
gress association, if there is one, and other
things of less importance or no importance.
The solvency of these institutions depends
on his activity, and he gets part of his liv-
ing by commissions on his collections. There-
fore he visits all the shearing-sheds and
lamb-marking camps within reach. He also
shows a friendly interest in stock passings,
riding with the drover across that part of
the common that provides a good view of the
hospital, at the same time reminding him of
the dangers of droving, and, incidentally, men-
tioning that no one knows at what moment
lie might need the blessings of such an institu-
tion. If he hears that someone has drawn
a prize in a sweep or has been left a for-
tune, he is the first to offer congratulations.
* * X «
“Dim-dim”: Can’t agree with “Viau”_(B.
11/6/’3O) that detailed information-, is not
transmitted by garamut (drum) signalling
in New Guinea. The garamut is of Poly-
nesian origin, and is still used extensively
in the South Pacific, whence it has spread
to parts of New Guinea. A diminutive
form of garamut is also used in the Men-
tawai Islands, off the west coast of Sumatra,
and for the purpose of sending messages
three of these drums are employed, each
having a different tone. The code used con-
sists of various combinations of beat and
sequence of the three instruments. For
instance, six beats on each drum in quick
succession would convey the fact that some-
body in the village had been killed, and it
is obvious that a large variety of combina-
tions is obtainable by using three drums.
With the huge garamuts of the Sepik varia-
tions of tone can be obtained by striking
the drum at different points, and I have
no doubt that communications are trans-
mitted there by some such code as is used
by the Mentawai Islanders. That very defi-
nite messages can be transmitted by garamut
in the Sepik district I have had proved to
me on several occasions, and I know of an
instance where information was. conveyed by
this means, from village to village, for a
distance of 220 miles down the course of
the Sepik and thence across to the island
of Manam in much less time than the news
could have been passed along from mouth
to mouth. Also, I was at a village on the
Sepik banks some years ago, on my way
to visit some bush people living a few miles
to the north of the river. I enlisted the aid
of the chief with a view to him sending a
runner ahead of me to notify the bush-
men of my coming. The chief, not being
on speaking terms with the bush crowd, sug-
gested he should communicate with another
village more friendly to the bush people
and get them to send the messenger. There-
upon he commenced to belabor ■an outsize
in garamuts with a pole, the message taking
IMPROVING THE SHINING MOON.
FIRST ONE: “What are the happy couple taking a cow with them for?”
SECOND ONE: “Oh, Dave’s goin’ to give the bride a few milkin’ lessons while they’re
on their honeymoon.”
quite a lot of time and energy to transmit.
On arriving at the bush village next day,
sure enough there was the messenger, who
said he had heard the “talk” of the garamut
the previous night and had carried out
instructions.
* # * *
“Runa”: Concerning imported nightingales
(B. 27/8/’3O), Maoriland two years ago was
pleasantly excited to learn that a dozen or
so nad been liberated in Auckland province.
The papers made a great song about it, but
the nightingales have been less vocal. At
intervals a romantic householder rushes into
print with the news that he heard a night-
ingale in his garden, but these reports
usually lack confirmation. Some suggest that
the immigrants left with the advent of
winter and forgot the way back or returned
to their old haunts for the next summer.
Whatever the reason, the nightingale’s liquid
notes do not arise to stir the M.L. bard to
poesy, but he has the consolation of being
told by those who have heard both that the
European songster is no more melodious
than Fernland’s own golden-throated tui.
* x X *
“Yarri”: Most axemen consider ironbark,
marblewood, gidya, mulga and nelia the
hardest of the common timbers to cut, but
the sawmiller has his worst
troubles with a different
lot. Two of the hardest
to saw are the black and
yellow walnuts, both good
furniture woods. Analysis
shows that the trouble is
caused by the high percent-
age of silica that they con-
tain, which has the same
effect as grit on the saws.
Another troublesome wood
is tulip, which is also high-
class furniture material.
It is rough on both the saw
and the sawyer, being bone-
hard, and the dust causes
severe irritation in the
nose. Some softwoods,
such as pink poplar, are
not liked by the miller either. The difficulty
with them is that they gum the teeth of the
saw. The garden peach-tree, when green or
half-green, has the same effect.
* X X if:
“Prof. Watt-Shores”: Allow me to draw
the attention of the scientific world to the
star exhibit of my private museum at Mar-
rabel (S.A.). It is a single specimen of the
only stone endowed with life—the “barking”
gibber (Lapidus bowwowii). I secured my
prize near the Petermann Ranges (Cen-
tralia) in an area recently re-explored by the
McKay expedition under the fallacious belief
that it was a terra incognita. The barking
gibbers are found only north of the ranges,
on a stony tableland. When a thunderstorm
is pending an eerie moaning fills the air. It
is the noise of the alarmed stones, crying out
in fear. As the black pall of the storm rolls
overhead the sound swells until a frightful
shriek echoes over the treeless plain—a single
flash of lightning has slain thousands of
gibbers. The, others, in terror of a similar
fate, and being unable to move to escape it,
redouble their cries until the sound drowns
the thunder. When the storm passes the
clamor of the gibbers dies down to a low,
mournful sighing. They are wailing for
their departed friends, mates and offspring.
When I wish to demonstrate the powers of
my specimen to visiting unbelievers, I let
a few drops of water fall upon it from a
sponge, while my ethnologist switches the
electric lights off and on rapidly and the
taxidermist bangs an iron tank outside.
Under such stimulation my gibber fills the
museum with doleful yaps and howls, and the
most sceptical of unbelievers departs con-
vinced.
SOWING HIS WILD OATHS.
“Tidapa”: A resident of a Sydney fore-
shore has invented a new sort of fishing. His
house stands amongst thick lantana bushes
which have grown over rocks that abut on
his property. These bushes are infested with
rats, which have defied his many attempts to
exterminate them. Poison has been tried
afid traps likewise, but with indifferent
results. Now on a Saturday or Sunday he
gets his rod and line out, and using a
blackfish cast with cheese as bait usually
manages to land half a dozen rats, the
plumpest weighing up to about 21b.
THE TOWNSHIP LIGHTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where roads are long and lonely
And travel hard and slow,
With hope and comfort only
In thoughts that forward go;
When nights are dark and dreary,
When ways are dry and brown,
How cheery to the weary
The far lights of the town!
Though it be small, bush-skirted
And scattered, dull and grey,
Where roadways seem deserted
And crude the shacks by day,
It somehow seems imposing,
A fairyland by night,
With every home disclosing
Its tiny beams of light.
A welcome to the rover
They flash through dark and rain,
A tonic to the drover,
Far jogging on the plain;
From winding road and alley
It looks with jewelled eyes
Across the silent valley,
The township on the rise.
They call with soft persistence,
Although their glow be dim,
Low in the murky distance,
Seen from the range’s rim,
The lights where peace is graven,
And travel-cares may drown ;
They mark a happy haven,
The far lights of the town.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney!
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
hfdh
WHEN LIVING WAS CHEAP
YEARS ago, when living was cheap, many men assured them-
selves for sums that seemed adequate—then! To-day
those sums are quite insufficient. The cost of living has doubled
itself. Amounts that would have kept your dependents years
ago would mean penury to-day. Protect your dependents
to-day as you did years ago. Increase your policy to meet the
new conditions of to-day and to-morrow.
PRODUCERS S'CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO- OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8,8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell. •
s Head Office: P. &C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney. .
N.S.W. Agents: Fanners & Graziers' Co-operative Grain Insurance and j
Bh Agency C0.,-Ltd.
mI M
JM
National
Hotel
BRISBANE
TARIFF RATES-For Rooms Only
Room for one person, from 8/- to 10/- per day.
Room for two persons, from 16/- to 20/-per day.
Room with private bathroom, for one person from
12/6 to 20/- per day.
Room (large), with balcony and private bath, for
two persons, 25/- per day.
Suite, balcony bedroom, sitting room, with
private bathroom, for two persons 30/- per day.
Every Room is equipped with Telephone,
Bedside Light, Hot and Cold Running Water
Conducted on the European plan by—
ROWES LTD.
HOTEL and CAFE PROPRIETORS
Address Manager Write for Illustrated Folder
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CBPARK & CASTLEKEACH. STS SYDNEY
FAT ON THE FARM.
“Alf Alpha”: When Towser has finished
with the bones from the kitchen, and before
Dad collars them for use in making manure,
it will pay Mum to boil them in an old
kerosene-tin to recover the fat. Ten pounds
of bones will return between one and two
pounds of fat. The fat so obtained supple-
mented with the surplus from the kitchen
will command a ready sale, or, better still,
it can be converted into household soap.
Buy 141 b. of Australian-made caustic soda
and dissolve in a gallon of rain water, adding
the soda a little at a time with constant
stirring. Use an old wooden rake-liandle or
something like it as a stirrer, and be careful,
for caustic soda is worse than a fly, especi-
ally when you get it in the eye. Weigh ten
pounds of fat and place it in a clean kero-
sene-tin. Fill the wash-copper three parts
full of water and heat to boiling, and place
in it the tin containing the fat, beating until
the fat melts. Add to the molten fat a
quart of the lye (soda solution), using small
portions at a time with constant stirring.
When incorporation is complete add another
quart of lye as before, keeping the hot mass
well, stirred. Repeat until the gallon of
lye is used. If the curd (soap) does not
readily separate from the liquid on cooling,
a little solid caustic should be added. Allow
the mass to solidify, break the crust and
pour off the liquid; add two quarts of water
to the curd and re-heat to dissolve. Throw
in a pound of coarse salt and allow to cool.
Pour off the liquid and cut the soap, or
mould to suit yourself.
For the orchard and garden, the soap so
made, with the final addition of a quart of
kerosene or petrol containing a pint of
phenyl, provides a cheap and effective spray.
Used in the dog’s bath it saves a lot of his
energy.
And Mum can please Dad by making
axle-grease for the farm waggon. Weigh and
melt eight pounds of fat; stir in two pounds
of blacklead finely powdered; remove from
the heat and keep stirring until the mass
solidifies. Rope grease, moreover, is useful
and economical. Melt together two pounds
of fat with three pounds of linseed oil; add
two pounds of paraffin and three pounds of
vaseline; and color with a little powdered
blacklead. If any of the blacklead is
left over, a little rubbed over the tools in
the toolshed will keep them bright and shiny
and prevent them from rusting.
WHEAT-GROWING IN CENTRAL
QUEENSLAND.
“Border R.”: When the Dawson Valley
irrigation works were planned wheat-growing
was not part of the scheme, but it has been
tried with encouraging results on the Theo-
dore area, where cotton is the principal crop.
Last year 140 acres were sown in Theodore
for a yield of 1800 bushels.
This may not seem brilliant, but the wheat
was planted in “dry” blocks, and only 15
points of rain fell during the growing period.
Also fallowed pieces gave 194 bushels per
acre. As a result, 700 acres of the area have
been sown with wheat this season, and a
recent report was that the crops were looking
well.
Theodore is as high up on the map as
Charlotte Waters (Northern Territory) and
Shark Bay (Westralia). It is certainly the
northernmost point at which wheat is being
grown in the Commonwealth.
A FINE WE STRALIAN FARM.
“Jamwood”; Mr. Alick Monger, one of
the founders of the Westralian Primary
Producers’ Association, has a farm in the
York district on which every acre is put
to good use. The property consists of 6500
acres, of which 1000 are under crop and
700 are fallowed. On the remaining 4800
acres there are 8000 sheep and lambs.
The winter rains were late in parts of
Westralia this year, but not too late for the
wheat crops (it is expected that the
1929-30 return of 39 million bushels will
be largely exceeded) or the grass on Mr.
Monger’s place. Agricultural Minister Fer-
guson, who visited it recently, lays stress on
the wonderful spread of subterranean clover.
This, as part of Mr. Monger’s scheme of
pasture improvement, is liberally top-dressed.
Sub. clover largely accounts for the carry-
ing capacity of the Monger farm, which is
exceptional for Westralia. Minister Fer-
guson, himself a member of an old farming
family, suggests that a belt of red-gum
country which runs through the property is
a factor in this rich pasture growth.
SCOURING ON HILLSIDE FALLOWS.
“Lucerne Flea”; In South Australia, the
man. who breaks up what was a grass-covered
hillside and crops it finds, sooner or later,
that every fold in the ground is turning into
a creek which deepens with every season.
The result may be the ruin of that bit of
ground for cropping.
In such a case the best thing to do is to
run a deep ditch along the head of the pad-
dock and down one side, afterwards broad-
casting wattle seed into the grass on the
lower side of the top drain and both sides
of the side drain and firing the grass in the
autumn. Once the wattles get going there’s
little fear of the bank washing out. After
that try to keep stubble fires out of the
wattles and grass in the drain, and don’t let
rubbish accumulate. In this way you will
have settled the problem of storm waters
from higher up cutting gutters through the
paddock, and at the same time you will have
made a fine wing-drain for a dam.
But if your paddock is already seamed
with creeks, making a drain along the head
is only a partial solution. Plant every creek
with wattles, and scatter the seed-pods of
red and water gums (gathered from under
those trees as soon as they drop and soaked
in warm water for a few hours) along the
creek beds in winter. Once they begin to
grow thick and strong, cut them off a foot
above the ground with an axe and push the
fallen saplings into the bed. Also rake up
the stubble and fork it in. In a few years
you will find that the creek has almost
vanished. Then you can plough right up to
the line of young trees which marks the
former bed. But don’t kill them off or a
creek will start again.
A farm near mine was allowed to run
down shamefully. By the methods described
the energetic young fellow who now owns
it has almost wiped out the creeks and
gutters made by former mismanagement. To
be sure, a lot of the hillside paddocks are
now divided up into five-acre strips by wind-
ing belts of saplings, making cultivation awk-
ward, but that’s a far better alternative than
open washouts.
ROLY-POLY FOR SHEEP.
“Atriplex”: Much of what was said by
the N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers in praise of
saffron thistle as a sheep feed (B. 27/8/’3O)
might be applied to the roly-polys of the
North-West, except perhaps the “galvanised”
variety. Both sheep and cattle will eat
these plants and live quite well on them,
but the things remain untouched so long as
there is more palatable feed in the paddock.
Stock must be crammed on to stop the
poly growing large and developing hard spines,
and the more it is eaten down the better it
grows. It is safe to say that there is no
more drought-resisting edible plant growing
on the black soil; a paddock of it is often
seen a brilliant green against a background
of desolate waste. But in the height of a
drought sheep will eat the mature plant, and
I have opened a paunch and found the con-
tents too prickly to close the hand on. It
is much better than old dry grass, as it keeps
the bowels- open.
Our Department of Agriculture spends a
lot of money investigating exotic plants for
pasture improvement. If they devoted the
same time to trying to breed a spineless
variety of poly along the lines shown by
Luther Burbank, they might give flat-country
woolgrowers what is their crying need —a
plant that will grow and keep growing until
the next rain comes. We don’t want huge
bodies of feed with long intervals between;
we want something green all the time. I have
known good agistment prices to be obtained
for paddocks of poly in a bad time; it is
noteworthy that it is always the despised
weed that saves the stock at the last pinch.
FOR WORM-INFESTED SHEEP.
“W.D.Mc.”: “Nick O’Teen” is right
(B. 20/8/’3O) in emphasising the neces-
sity of care in the preparation of drenches,
but his formula for the tobacco and arsenic
drench' is wrong. This is correct: —
Take a 10-gallon drum and half-fill with
water; cut in small pieces lib. of the strong-
est tobacco (Barrett’s or sailors’ twist), and
put in an oatmeal or similar bag to boil.
When at the boil add arsenic; when
boiling put in 51b. of carbonate of soda and
stir often. Keep cold water handy to pre-
vent boiling over. Stir and boil for one
hour, then strain and add water to make up
to 10 gallons. For a five-gallon lot use -|-lb.
tobacco, lfoz. arsenic and 241 b. soda;
and have the arsenic weighed by a chemist to
prevent mistakes.
For sheep the dose is 2 fluid ounces; for
weaners, l|oz.; for lambs, loz.; for small
lambs use your own discretion —yard the
sheep over night and keep them for six hours
after without water—drenching horns can be
got from Dalgety’s.
With this drench I have dosed 1500
weaners that were dying at the rate of 10
a day; the mortality ceased in 48 hours. By
its use I have converted wormy runts of
lambs into decent sheep in four months.
Accurately prepared it is the best vermifuge
extant, and as a tonic for fattening sheep
it cannot be beat. I have never known it
to fail when properly made and administered.
BUSH HAY.
“Wandi”; In normal seasons, particularly
in Mitchell-grass country, a good deal of
bush haymaking is done by provident stock-
owners. On clear plains or flats mowing
machines are used, but in most places the
grass is cut with scythes and reaping-hooks.
Mitchell grass is the only hay stored at many
interior homesteads, and is used for stable
feeding as well as being a standby in drought
time. I have seen many a huge stack that
was cut in little valleys in the north-west
corner of N.S.W. On one part of a big
run there was plenty of grass but no water,
and sheep could not be put there. The grass
was cut and carted to the homestead. Seven
years afterwards, when the run was bare,
that bush hay, helped with scrub, tided over
a bad drought.
On one of Tyson’s stations a stack of
Mitchell grass was left untouched for 20
years, and was then found to be good and
sweet from top to bottom. Tyson, I think,
was the first to recognise the haymaking
value of this native grass, which is so sus-
taining that I have known sheep to keep
their condition for months when they had
only the long-dead stubble to eat. It is cut
when the ears are dry, which leaves a good
sprinkling of seed on the ground, and is ready
to stack almost immediately.
Though there is no special cultivation for
hay, some paddocks of Mitchell grass are at
times reserved, and are made easy for mow-
ing by running a roller over places where
the ground is lumpy or strewn with small
surface stones. The bar to regular cultiva-
tion is that a good crop is only obtained in
those parts after a soaking rain, and that
doesn’t happen every year. But the seed
doesn’t deteriorate by long waiting in the
ground, and once the grass has started to grow
it is not affected by dry conditions afterwards.
Coolah grass, silver top, blue grass, native
oat grass and wallaby grass also make good
hay, but are cut before the seed matures.
These flourish from the coast to the far
interior, and respond well to cultivation.
Kangaroo grass is another excellent hay-
maker, but is less widely distributed. In
places plains covered with it look like wav-
ing wheat fields. It grows to 6ft. high, and
is cut when in flower. Unlike the interior
grasses, which can be cut one day and
stacked the next, kangaroo grass—and any
kind in the coastal regions, for that matter
—has to be dried like ordinary hay. Coach
horses and plough horses fed on this grass
keep their condition without any other feed.
For the dairy herd in winter kangaroo-grass
hay is first-class fodder.
PODDY-REARING POINTS.
“U. Murray”: My excuse is that I have
had 50 years’ experience:—
Always let the calf suck its mother for a
few days—say, four —and then be sure it has
a fair share of whole milk for 10 days or a
fortnight.
Never feed in troughs. With little stalls
and cut-down kero.-tins, and a race giving
access thereto with entrance and exit gates,
calves can be fed quickly enough for anybody.
Also one can treat any symptoms of scour-
ing at once, and scouring is the worst enemy
of poddies.
Get a bag of lime at the beginning of the
season and keep a bucketful of limewater
always handy. A cup of this in the milk of
any calf which shows signs of scouring will
often put it right.
If the trouble persists, brown a panful of
flour and mix a tablespoonful into the affected
calf’s ration of milk. If this proves ineffec-
tive, give a good dose of carbon tetrachloride,
at least twice the dose given to a sheep.
Always feed the milk about blood-heat.
Calves so fed have been proved to grow 28
per cent, faster than those fed at 60 degrees.
Give the calves some sort of shelter, if it
be only a bit of straw thrown on a frame. To
leave them unsheltered is utterly callous.
A good Pinna insignis or other dense-headed
tree is as good as a shed, or better.
While grass is green and milk plentiful, the
calves are better shut off water; but as sum-
mer comes on water should be provided.
Finally, don’t imagine you can feed calves
and pigs on the same milk. If you must keep
pigs, kill your calves.
PIG-FARMERS AND THE PUBLIC.
“Whole Hogger”: Writing in the Vie.
“Journal of Agriculture” Mr. A. J: Gill,
senior Government herd-tester, discusses the
question why Australians eat so little bacon
and pork compared with the people of other
countries. Consumption per head, according
to the figures he gives, is 11.51 b. per annum
in Australia, 28.31 b. in Maoriland, 41.81 b. in
Britain and 87.71 b. in Canada. The expla-
nation, as the officer sees it, is that “our pig-
farmers have not been successful in meeting
the public’s requirements.”
“Our people,” Mr. Gill says, “have not
been supplied with the type and quality of
pork and bacon they desire. The breeder may
fancy a particular type of pig; the butcher
may favor another type; the bacon-factory
manager another; but it is the consumer’s
taste that has to be catered for. Eighty per
cent, of the pork one sees in our shops is too
fat. People think a different type of pig is
required for production of pork from the one
fattened for bacon. This is not so—-the best
type of pig to kill for pork is likewise the
best type for bacon. The demand to-day is
for a lean, tender, juicy bacon and pork. This
necessitates a fast-growing pig that can be
marketed while young, and whose flesh is fine
and firm.”
I am afraid this statement of the position
is incontrovertible, though anyone who fan-
cies he can argue against it is welcome to
try. Incidentally, Mr. Gill insists, as, recent
Bulletin contributors have done, that it is
wasteful to feed pigs solely on skim milk, and
that they should at all times have access to
pasture. As for balanced rations, which
“give quicker growth and produce a better
quality of bacon,” he recommends the following
mixtures: From 31b. to 341 b. grain and 101 b.
skim milk; 101 b. meat meal and 1001 b. grain ;
251 b. pea meal, 751 b. cereal grain or pollard,
and 61b. meat meal; from 41b. to 51b. pota-
toes, lib. grain and 101 b. skim milk.
INCREASING THE POTATO YIELD.
“S. Quire”: A potato-grower myself, I
could not understand the low average yield
prevalent in Australia compared with over-
seas averages until I went overseas. The high
English, Scotch and Irish returns are due
to a combination of factors—better seed and
greater variety; heavier manuring, with
mare intense cultivation; methodical and
systematic rotation; more stability in
climatic conditions. But not superior land.
In my opinion our potato soils are naturally
richer than those utilised for the culture of
the tuber in the British Isles.
As regards seed new blood means fresh
vitality. Take the case of wheat: a new
variety (and they are for ever cropping up)
soon pushes the old variety out of existence.
In some cases Nature asserts itself; when
the variety begins to weaken it “sports” by
the process of mutation, and the “sport” is
usually stronger and a better grower than
the parent. Overseas growers are always
on the lookout for “sports,” and the special-
ist is continually raising seedlings.
Here is a significant fact. The Carmen
variety, which is our main spud, has long
since gone out pf cultivation in the U.S.A.,
where it originated, and it is unknown in
England. The same might be said of other
varieties grown in Australia. We suffer
from the prohibition (with or without quar-
antine) of the latest productions of the
world’s leading specialists and hybridists.
Admittedly we have had Carmen “sports,”
and have selected and re-selected the seed;
otherwise our yield would be much lower
than it is. It may be said that new strains
do come into Australia. Arran Chief, _ for
example. The answer to this is that it isn’t
an open go. The seed is in such a sorry con-
dition when it lands that it never recovers
from the initial treatment received.
As to cultivation and manuring, I have
seen men and women in the potato fields
of England and Scotland hoeing the crop
at 8 pm., and all by hand. I met a grower
in Scotland who used lOcwt. of super., scwt.
of sulphate of potash, 3cwt. of sulphate of
ammonia and a ton of soot per acre (the
last two as a top-dressing) . I saw his crop
dug; the yield was 18 tons per acre over
four acres.
That brings us to another matter. Some
growers in Australia put in over 100 acres.
Many plant 30 to 50 acres. In England and
Scotland 20 acres is considered a large
field. There the potato farm is a mixed
farm; other crops are grown which help to
distribute the labor, the strain and the gain.
Generally speaking, we do not manure
heavily with any fertiliser apart from super.
It should be remembered that potassic and
nitrogenous manures are much dearer iu
Australia than abroad. During the past
12 months, however, the price of sulphate
of ammonia has shown a remarkable fall,
amounting to more than 25 per cent., and
this no doubt will be followed by larger
dressings and a more general use of this
valuable potato fertiliser.
My conclusion is that potato-growing in
Australia is a different proposition from
growing the vegetable in other countries;
nevertheless, our average yield can and
should be increased. The first essential is
the importation of new varieties to be grown
in quarantine under strict supervision prior
to distribution. Follow this with propaganda
i Continued on page 25 '


DANKS’ BEAUX ART
ELECTROUERS
Achieve the true home spirit
We suggest that you call and see these and
dozens of other fixtures, including designs in
colonial and Spanish period designs, so popular
at present.
THE FINE LIGHT SHADE-O-
LITE LINE.
A graceful yet lively design in bronze.
It achieves the true home spirit as well
as efficiency in lighting. Pleasingly
embellished with grill-work and delicately
tinted honey-glass—it makes a central
feature for any room.
BEAUX ART FIVE-LIGHT
ELECTROLIER AND
FROSTELLE GLASS.
A Mediaeval design with delicately tinted
and specially mounted Frostelle Glass.
A graceful design to enhance the decora-
tive beauty of any living- or dining-room.
Call and inspect the above, and also the newest Cooking, Sweeping, Washing
and Polishing electric appliances.
a
iimiiiiiimiiin
&SONI
I JOHN
lIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIO
SIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
IXR.
pr y-
-324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
10,000 Recipes that will
Save You Money
w%
mm
R|l
■
■
m
’>
m
n
&
ik
ms
on the hundreds of
things you use daily in
your home, your factory,
office, store or farm.
Price
POST FREE
NEW REVISED AND
ENLARGED EDITION.
IN every can of baking powder
A or paint yon buy—-in the
hundreds of things you use -in
your home or business —is a
goodly profit you can now save
and make your own through
the priceless knowledge con-
tained in HENLEY’S
TWENTIETH CENTURY
BOOK OF RECIPES,
FORMULAS AND PRO-
CESSES.
It places at your finger-tips
over ten thousand separate
recipes, preparations, form-
ulas and processes containing
the latest scientific discoveries.
In simple, non-technical terms
it explains how you can make
every conceivable thing in
general use, from inks and
toothpastes to asphalt, cement
and battery solutions. It con-
tains the discoveries of civilisa-
tion itself!
Thousands of Unpublished Secret Processes.
Thousands of secret processes and formulas are here published for the first time —
many of them gleaned from the private papers of leading French and European
scientists and never before translated into English.
Many a fortune has been built on a good formula. Think what it would mean
to have ten thousand to choose from!
All Yours for a Small Sum.
The housewife will find it valuable in making beautifying creams, baking powders
or insecticides. With it the factory can save money on belt dressings, amalgams
or boiler compounds. The farmer will find its latest scientific information on
fertilisers, cheese-making, tanning and Portland cement indispensable.
Hardly a day passes but what you require authentic, up-to-the-minute information
on these very recipes, formulas and processes. Why not send for a copy of this
remarkable one volume encyclopaedia to-day?
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
HEENZO is easily the best remedy / have ever
used for banishing chest and
throat ailments ,
Writes Mr. RAYMOND ELLIS, the
eminent English Operatic Baritone.
OF IMPORTANCE TO PARENTS
is the fact that HEENZO does
NOT contain any poisons or
digestive-upsetting drugs —that s
why HEENZO is the best of
all family remedies for
r%
wt
COUGHS, COLDS,
CROUP, BRONCHITIS,
INFLUENZA
'HEENZO,
Every leading Chemist and Store in Australia sells HEENZO.


A
m
ism
■
'
atffr
ft s
9§s
Sfc
Sis
$
■:-.
9
flm
Islt®
«*
<s®
m<
O
#
<s
ey X; «4
,v>C: O
%
W
**«
4>4>. >6;v < °"'
C* >4
"■’• V - e *o/v>V.,
C «J3 N C
6^^ °- ‘" e
5? 0 X ' «,},
**<*> Z 9 ** „. ** * e 0^
e if
**»- "" °* **' tJl3t/s Pol 6 Wj
S*# '* fy‘ t L C $e t " 5f
** «0 Q*JX 6 , °
r ° A, K/ f
_ */*>
9*
V#
a
O
Sf#
ofB%
MADE IN ENGLAND
AT THE FAMOUS OSRAM LAMP WORKS
Ask or write for a free
copy of the “Osram
Valve Guide”, a most
useful booklet detailing
Osram Valves.
Advertisement of the British General Electric Co., Ltd. Head Office and Public Showrooms: 10J t -llJ t Clarence Street, Sydney.
Branch Offices and Public Showi'ooms at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Newcastle and N.Z. cities. Sole Agencies at Brisbane and Hobart.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW ZEALAND
WELLINGTON DISTRICT.
No. 3654.
In Divorce.
TO FRANCIS MATTHEW WALSH formerly of
Wellington but now of an address unknown and
formerly a Clerk but now a Waiter.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife Mary Gweneth
Walsh of Wellington has filed in the Supreme Court
of New Zealand at Wellington a Petition in Divorce
against you claiming dissolution of her marriage on
the grounds of separation for three years. YOU
ARE THEREFORE NOTIFIED that unless you enter
an Appearance and file an Answer in the said Court
at Wellington within forty days from the appearance
of this advertisement the said Petition will be heard
and determined in your absence.
Dated at Wellington this 20th day of August, 1930.
C. MASON,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly requested
to forward to him the foregoing advertisement.
JOHN FRANCIS BARR STEVENSON is the Solicitor
for the Petitioner, whose address is at the offices
of Messieurs Izard, Weston, Stevenson and Castle,
Solicitors, Number 161 Featherston Street, Welling-
ton, New Zealand.
(This is the last advertisement.)
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1081 of 1930.
BETWEEN ARTHUR HENRY WOODGER Petitioner
And ELSIE ROSETTA MARY WOODGER
Respondent.
To ELSIE ROSETTA MARY WOODGER.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Arthur Henry Woodger
has commenced a suit against you in this Honorable
Court and has applied for a dissolution of marriage
on the grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards. AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Twenty-eighth day of Novem-
ber one thousand nine hundred and thirty and in
the event of you not so doing within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit will be determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the Petition
filed herein may be had on application to the
undersigned Solicitors free of charge.
Dated this second day of September, one thousand
nine hundred and thirty.
For the Registrar,
C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
MAGNEY & MAGNEY, Solicitors for the Petitioner,
79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
WILLIAM MATSELL—Deceased.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Deputy
Master of the Supreme Court of South Australia
has pursuant to “The Trustee Act 1893” and “The
Testators Family Maintenance Act 1918” directed
that all creditors next of kin and other persons
having claims against or any interest in the estate
of William Matsell late of Lameroo in the State of
South Australia Gentleman deceased who died at
Adelaide on the Bth day of April 1930 and Probate
of whose Will was granted to Alfred Townsend
formerly of Lameroo but now of Virginia in the
said State Storekeeper are to send full particulars
of their claims to C. R. Cudmore Esq. Solicitor
Brookman Buildings Grenfell Street Adelaide in the
said State on or before the 22nd day of October
1930 otherwise they will be excluded from the
distribution of the estate.
Dated this 29th day of August, 1930.
SYMON, MURRAY &' CUDMORE,
Brookman Buildings, Grenfell Street, Adelaide,
Solicitors for the Executor.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Lord Balfour
By SIR lAN MALCOLM.
Illustrated. 7s. 6d. net.
“This delightful memoir.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
“Certain to be of enduring value.”
—“Morning Post.”
Sidelights on Queen Victoria
By the Rt. Hon. SIR FREDERICK
PONSONBY, G.C.8., G.C.V.O.
With illustrations. About 25 s.
net.
[Shortly.
RUDYARD KIPLING
Thy Servant a Dog
By RUDYARD KIPLING. With
illustrations by G. L. Stampa.
Pott 4to. About 7s. 6d. net.
[Shortly.
Recommended by the Book Society.
Wind from the West
By PAMELA HINKSON.
[Empire Library.
“A gracious and moving story.”
—“Sunday Times.”
“Written with outstanding charm.”
—“Sunday Express.”
Three-and-Sixpenny Novels
NEW AND RECENT ADDITIONS.
The Optimist
By E. M. DELAFIELD
Zella Sees Herself
By E. M. DELAFIELD
Messalina of the Suburbs
By E. M. DELAFIELD
Possession
By MAZO DE LA ROCHE
Delight
By MAZO DE LA ROCHE
Jalna
By MAZO DE LA ROCHE
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON. W.C.2.


A
s - *
.. ■
■
m
Mi
W
Is#
The smartest
shape
Low-cut sides and squared toe are
here combined in one of the most
popular Abbey styles—made in four
different leathers, each of the finest
quality available.
This shoe fits smoothly and closely.
The lacing rises in a natural curve
over the instep arch, assuring com-
plete ease in wear. The sole is tough
and flexible.
ORDER BY POST.
Every half-size is available in three
fittings—narrow, medium and wide.
That guarantees made-to-measure
comfort. Specify width, and order,
also, the correct Abbey Polish (6d.
per tin), or a complete cleaning
outfit (2/6).
Tan Willow Calf - - 52/6
Glace Kid - - - - 52/6
Black Box Calf - - - 50/-
Patent Leather - 60/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street, and 224 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” Sydney.
FPL. 193
The
Shave
Ploug'h
Increases
Cultivation.
Of
0/
SHAVE’S PATENT STUMP-JUMP
REVERSIBLE DISC PLOUGH is the
lightest draught Plough on the
market, and requires only two horses
instead of four.
The SHAVE PLOUGH enables you
to make full and good use of all
uneven ground which is inaccessible
to the ordinary Plough.
The SHAVE PLOUGH is made in
FIVE different types:—
Type D.-—The Standard
Plough (double furrow).
Type B.—Single - furrow
Plough.
Type M.—t For Market Gar-
deners (with high wheels).
Type O.r-r-For Orchardists.
Type H. Hard Ground.
For further particulars, send for
illustrated Booklet.
m
234-236 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy.
And at WARRNAMBOOL, BENDIGO,
HORSHAM, BALLARAT and PORTLAND,
VICTORIA.
Piling up every little surplus so'* profitably and
wisely that full financial independence comes at
a very maximum of speed— that is what our NEW
Investment plan means to you
WRITE FOR A PAMPHLET
Have a Bank Account—Keep it Qrovuing
The Primary Producers Bank of Australia Ltd.
Head Office: 12 MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at Londor
1
A WHIP TO BE PROUD OF
THE
APEX STOCKWHIP
fdhfd
Nowhere else in the world can any
whip be produced to equal this Aus-
tralian-made Apex Stockwhip in its
skilled plaiting or in its wonderful
serviceable qualities. It is artistically
plaited in two colors with a neat
Swastika design on both handle and
thong. The thong is Bft. long and
20-plait. Price complete .. . .82/6
For 2/6 extra you can have your initials up to four
letters plaited in handle.
K’BURRA STOCKWHIPS
Plain plait without fancy stitches. Guaran-
teed Kangaroo Leather right through with
life-like fall.
THONGS. 6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft.
12-plait 18/6 21/- 23/6 27/6
16-plait 21/6 24/6 27/6 31/6
20-plait 26/6 30/ 33/6 38/6
Post Free for Cash.
HANDLES. 16-plait,
17/-; 24-plait, 19/-; 32-
plait, 22/6. Loaded
handles for 9ft. thongs,
1/6 more.
Write for our Saddlery Catalogue.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON LTD.
395 George Street, Sydney.
Box 785 G.
on the advantages of a sane system of rota-
tion, plus increased dressings of artificial
fertilisers, having due regard to the out-
standing deficiency of phosphoric-acid in our
soils, the influence of potash on the germ
of tbe seed and the quality of the tubers,
and the effect of soluble nitrogen on the
growth. Then our average yield will, I feel
confident, approach six tons per acre. This
should satisfy 99 per cent, of our potato-
growers—at any rate, it will do me.
STANDARDISED OITRTJS.
“Shadlow”: One of the disabilities of the
Australian citrus-grower is the lack of a
standardised brand. True, some of the bigger
packing sheds and districts are able to put
on the market a standardised article, but
the measure of uniformity is purely local.
Regulations set out that oranges shall be
graded, according to shape and freedom from
blemishes, as “Special,” “Standard” and
“Plain.” There is such a wide margin of
interpretation of these grades that the
"Special” grade of one district might be the
“Standard,” or even “Plain,” of another.
These differences in local interpretation are
accentuated by variations in quality due to
differences in the age of trees and to the
effect of local conditions on flavor and juice
content. In Victoria, again, there are approx-
imately 1700 growers who have among them
8000 acres of citrus trees, and whose crop
comes to the market under 200-odd individual
packs. In the circumstances, the different
brands, or packs, of fruit, even those from
sheds putting up a reliable pack of good-
quality fruit, are competing with one another.
On the export market the need for a
standardised grade mark is essential. The
export of citrus on a larger scale than at
present is not likely to be successful unless
continuity of uniform supplies can be guar-
anteed. So far, only the sheds in the M.I.A.
have a sufficiently large and uniform output
to be in a position to maintain such a
supply. Whether the Murrumbidgee growers
would decide to neglect the generally profit-
able home market, in the absence of any
export guarantee fund, is another matter.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How to feed and look after young pigs
after weaning? —B6lo.
The piglings should be fed, at least twice
daily, all that they will eat up clean.
They should have the run of good fresh pas-
ture if possible, and should be fed on crushed
grains, pollard and skim-milk, with lucerne,
rape or barley as green feeds, or pumpkins,
mangolds, etc., if possible. All slop feed
should be fed while sweet, and should pre-
ferably be given warm, after having been
steamed for about four hours. The steaming
of such grains as are given is attended by
better results than merely soaking. The
pigs should have a shallow wallow (prefer-
ably of concrete) in which the water is
kep’t as fresh as possible. Wood ashes, cin-
ders and a piece of rock-salt should be
available in the yards, which should be pro-
vided also with a dry shelter-shed and bed-
ding. Too many pigs should not be kept
in one yard. When about three to three and
a half months old boars should be placed in
separate small paddocks, where they should be
kept until ready for penning prior to market-
ing as porkers or baconers. An important
point is to grade the pigs so that those of a
similar size are together, thus preventing
large pigs from jostling smaller ones at
the feed troughs. Under average conditions
40 pigs can be run to the acre, but the
number depends on the size of the animals
and the pasture provided.
How can I stop my bull from jumping over
fences ? —8326.
Hobble both fore feet or fore and hind
leg on the same side. The side hobble gives
least interference with serving.
Best way to prepare separated milk as
a non-liquid food for poultry? —Bl4B.
Mix the mash with it. Where a large
quantity is available, the milk can be allowed
to become thick under clean conditions, and
the curds used only to mix the mash. This
part of the milk has a high food value and
is beneficial to poultry.
What price per lib. of butter-fat' was paid
by M.L. butter factories for years 1928-29
and 1929-30? I teas informed that the price
ranged from, Is. 9d. to Is. lid. per lb. Is
that correct? —8192.
According to official returns the average
price paid for butter-fat by factories in
1928-29 was 17.99 d. per lb. The return for
last season’s operations is not yet available,
but the average price was about 16d. per lb.
Cheese factories in the 1928-29 season paid
up to Is. 10d., with an average of 18.76 d.
per lb.
How to destroy bindweed? —Bs73.
Where the land is suitable for lucerne,
bindweed can be controlled by growing this
crop for a period of years. The continual
mowing eventually kills the weed. If lucerne
treatment is not practicable the land should
be deeply ploughed about September, and
frequently cultivated deeply with a tined
cultivator in order, to dry the soil as much
as possible and bring the roots to the sur-
face. If dry weather is experienced, much
of the weed will be destroyed in this way.
In America spraying with sodium chlorate,
4 per cent, solution, has proved fairly effec-
tive.
Need the floor of an overhead silo be made
of concrete? —8635.
Where there is a hard and dry earth floor
from which silage can be shovelled up clean
it is not necessary, but if the formation is
such that when the last of the silage is
being taken out it proves to be a soft, sticky
mess, or if the soil is sandv and roadifv
drains the liquid out of the silage, a 6in‘-
thiek concrete floor faced with cement
mortar iin. deep should be laid.
(1) Where in W.A. are potatoes grown?
(2) How many crops per year? (3) Any
special cultivation methods?— B6ll.
(1) The wetter parts of the South-West,
which have * '-ainfall of 25 to 30 inches,
are most suitamo. (2) Two —the summer
crop on drained swamps and river flats the
winter crop on the higher land's. Sometimes
three crops are taken in two years, and the
potato-grower can find work all the year
round. (3) It is unnecessary to keep seed-
tubers long- before planting, and considerable
increases of crop can be secured by planting
immature seed-tubers which have been har-
vested in an unripe condition and greened
by exposure in rough sheds. Potatoes are
usually planted on the flat—at every third
furrow —for the summer crop, and the winter
crop is planted similarly but later “ridged”
to assist drainage. A complete dressing of
artificial manure, supplying nitrogen, phos-
phoric acid and potash, is usually given at
planting. Long storage is very risky, owing
to the hot climate and the ravages of the
potato moth, but the constant succession of
crops within the year makes long storage
unnecessary.
What variety of water-melon is suitable
for the dry, western districts of A. S.
Wales? Methods of planting and cultiva-
tion:P—Bssl.
Angelo. Seed is obtainable from J. C. Row-
cliffe, Dubbo. It is advisable to thoroughly
work small areas of melons rather than to
roughly work a large area. The early
ploughing should be deep, and carried out in
time to absorb the winter rains. Correct
fallowing methods should be adopted to de-
stroy weeds and conserve moisture. Organic
matter should be well decomposed prior to
working into the soil. Basic, super, is the most
suitable artificial fertiliser to use, the usual
application being 4cwt. per acre. Irriga-
tion in the early stages of growth should be
only light, and followed by frequent culti-
vations. When the fruit is forming up, the
waterings should be much scantier and more
frequently applied.
How to make a whitewash out of the
waste from, an acetylene-gas plant? 1 mixed
the waste with salt and water, and applied
to fence posts, but rain washed most of it
off.— B4ol.
You shouldn’t use salt with slaked car-
bide. Mix the carbide residue with boiling
water and a proportion of melted fat to the
consistency of cream.
I have £2OO and am thinking of taking
up Angora-rahbit farming. (1) What arc
the prospects of the industry? (2) Is my
capital sufficient? (3) Trice of stud stock
and where obtainable? (4) Is there an
assured market for the wool? (5) Is there
a likelihood of the wool being manufactured
in Australia? (6) Is it true that the M.L.
clip was bought in England at 30s. per lb.?
(7) Name of a firm which will buy wool
and young stock? —8272.
(1) and (6) Can’t prophesy. Informa-
tion recently received by the Q’land Dept,
of Agriculture is to the effect that the Lon-
don market is overcrowded, that the price
for first-grade wool is 235. per lb., and Chin-
chilla pelts average 25., with a top price
of ss. for “winter bests.” (2) N. S. Wales
Wool and Fur, Ltd., who sell the rabbits,
say it would cover the cost of about 50
rabbits and enclosures, “from which a good
return should be made.” (3) The same firm
quotes prices of pedigreed breeding stock as
follows: Angora does, £4 45.; bucks, £5 55.;
Chinchilla does, £5 55.; bucks, £8 Bs. and up-
wards. (4) N. S. Wales Wool and Fur,
Ltd., say there is a ready market overseas.
The Q’land Agricultural Dept, says that the
Derwent mills in England, the principal
manufacturers of Angora woollen goods, have
supplies of fur greatly in excess of their
requirements. (5) N. S. Wales Wool and
Fur, Ltd., say they intend to commence
manufacture. (7) N. S. Wales Wool and
Fur, Ltd., 115 Pitt-street, Sydney.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“J. McG.”: For the blowfly pest nothing
beats sump oil from the car. It kills all
maggots and a fly won’t blow anywhere near
where the oil has touched. Sump oil is also
a good weed-killer. The longer it is retained
in the car the more deadly it becomes.
“Bill R.”: A horse paddocked on marshy
country became infested with worms. I
cured him in this way: Yarded him without
feed overnight for a week. One hour before
his breakfast gave him a small bran mash
into which an ounce of powdered arica nut
and a teaspoon of sulphate of iron had been
stirred. On the seventh day I drenched
him with a pint of raw linseed oil, and then
turned him loose on green feed.
“Bill R.”: A pet sheep can be easily
trained to follow through the woolshed pens
or the races of the drafting-yards. Then he
will save you heaps of trouble by marching
ahead and leading through reluctant flocks
at shearing or weaning time.
“Poker” : I may be in a minority, but I
say the indiscriminate clearing and picking-
up of all small timber on a property is
harmful. When the area becomes wind-
swept there is no cover in which grass seed
can be retained to germinate later.
“Oyster”: A handle for that empty petrol-
tin? Get a piece of wood lOin. long and
lin. through; bore a small hole near each
end; take a piece of fencing-wire 18in. long
and put the ends an equal distance through
each hole; bend two hooks, and there you
are.
“G.V.D.”: “Te Aroha” (B. 13/8/’3O)
should not have ignored Rothamsted results
in his remarks on growing mangolds. The
great experimental station reported last year
that this crop “depends upon a supply of
potash, especially... .where sulphate of
ammonia is the source of nitrogen.” Aver-
age results of 54 years’ trials: Super, and
sulphate of ammonia, 9.1 tons per acre;
super., sulphate of ammonia and potash,
22.6 tons p.a.
“Goomarin”: Clips or U-bolts are better
than single bolts for fastening the shafts
of carts to the front end of the body. The
holes for the single bolts weaken the shafts,
and the sway does the rest.
“L’Fou” (Vic.) : When building a new
milking shed of the open-fronted variety,
have the open side on the north. The floor
will then get germicidal sunbaths at their
strongest, yet the shed will be comparatively
cool at morning and evening milking hours.
Says A. W. S. Moodie in an interesting
booklet issued for free distribution by Dan-
gar, and Co.: —
Many districts in N.S.W. arc suitable to the
growing of introduced grasses, clovers and lucerne,
and to pasture improvement by top-dressing with
superphosphate.
And this is eminently true, The author gives
precise figures as to costs and methods.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. ;
The service is entirely, free. . AH you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in' filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. i
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell’’ or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Nurse (40), Q’land, highest certificate for mid-
wifery, desires partnership in maternity hospital or
charge of infant. Refs.—B646.
Young lady, Sydney, kindergarten exp. and busi-
ness training, wants position as nursery governess or
companion, country preferred.—B647.
Gentleman, Vic., legal training and organising
exp., possessed of literary culture, fluent lecturer,
wants employment anywhere.—B6s6.
Engineer-mechanic (50) wants job on station or
elsewhere. Refs.—B694.
Returned soldier, Sydney, saddler, book-keeper,
storekeeper, gardener, married, seeks employment, any-
where.—B67o.
Wanted five to ten acres good land, near country
town, northern N.S.W., suitable for market garden,
on clearing lease or shares.—B7o4.
Young woman, Sydney, wants daily work, Mon-
day to Friday, as laundress and cleaner; Bs. a day
and fares. Refs.- —8654.
Young woman (24), N.S.W., wants position as
nurse, companion or help to family travelling to
any country. Refs. —8663.
To buy Barron Field’s “First Fruits of Australian
Poetry,” Rowcroft’s “Tales of the Colonies,” John
Lang’s “Botany 8ay.”—8645.
To buy Ingersoll’s “Life After Death.” —8693.
Information Sought.
(1) Upon what principle does the super-
heterodyne type of radio receiver operate?
(2) What are its advantages? —B43B.
(1) When two different frequencies are
superimposed one on the other, a .beat fre-
quency is produced whose numerical value
is equal to the difference between the two.
Thus, if a frequency of 3,100,000 cycles,
generated by a. local oscillator, is superim-
posed on to a signal frequency of 3,000,000
(100 m.) a beat frequency of 100,000
(3000 m.) will result, which is amplified
through several high-frequency stages and
finally detected. (2) The chief advantages
are highly efficient amplification, good selec-
tivity and simple tuning.
I have been offered an engineering job in
the Federated Malay States for four years
at a salary of 440 dollars per month, rising
to 550 dollars per month. I am 24 and
physically fit. (1) Is there any reason why
I should not accept this offer? (2) Any
■source of up-to-date information on the
F.M.S. and S.S., and European life there?
(3) What clothes xvould it be best to take
from here and what would be best purchased
there? (4) what would be a reasonable
figure for the cost of living for a bachelor,
meeting the social position of one drawing
the above salary? (5) What risks of malaria
and other tropical diseases in comparison
with other tropical countries? —8340.
(1) On appearances, none whatever. It is
a good opening for a steady young man, but
you shouldn’t sign on for more than three
years. (2) In “British Malaya To-day,” by
Richard Sydney; “British Malaya,” by Swet-
tenham; and “The Malay Peninsula,” by-
Wright and Reid. Works of Hugh Clifford
for a romantic picture. (3) Best purchased
in Singapore. White clothes for voyage can
bo bought at Brisbane or Thursday Island.
(4) You won’t save much unless quarters
are supplied, but you can live well on the
salary. (5) Depends on the nature of your
work. There is more malaria in country
being opened up than in the towns, but
F.M.S. is now regarded as one of the
healthiest of tropical countries.
llow to neutralise cement waste in ground-
on which a concrete wall has recently been
erected—l have tried to grow creepers, but
the roots all die off. —8483.
’ The soil should be thoroughly broken up
to a depth of 18in. or 2ft., and a liberal
application of stable manure incorporated.
llow can an over-fat dog be reduced? —
8461.
Administer one tablespoon of castor oil
and one tablespoon of syrup of buck-
thorn (half dose for small dogs). For
a few days after giving the dog the medicine
it should be practically starved, only getting
a little vegetable and gravy and water.
Afterwards, go slow with carbohydrates,
such as biscuits, bread, cake, etc. Give very
little meat. Green vegetables and gravy
may be given daily, and the dog should be
regularly exercised.
Are there any instances of coastal erosion
in Australia? If so, where and what is the
extent of the erosion? —8436.
According to Professor J. Macdonald
Holmes, of Sydney Uni;, there are innumer-
able instances of extensive coastal erosion
in Australia—practically on all parts of the
coast. The coastline is an alternation of
headlands and bays which correspond more
or less to the ends of the spurs and valleys
of the land. The headlands form cliffs due
to the erosive action of storm waves under-
cutting the base of the cliff and the top-
most part, when unsupported, falling away.
This erosion must have been very extensive
in long-past ages, but more recently triangu-
lar rock platforms at sea-level on every
heading on the coast of N. S. Wales indicate
an erosive action of, say, 20ft. to 30ft.
Erosion is balanced by deposition when sand-
bars and sandspits form in the bays, and
for a time, at least, protect the coastline, as
at Narrabeen. The seaward side of the mag-
nificent cliffs on the South Head ,of Sydney
Harbor bears witness to the greatness of
the erosive action on our sea coasts.
How to control the carpet beetle? —B43s.
Carpets are generally attacked on edges
under furniture. When signs of the beetle
are noticed, the carpet and the floor and
skirting-boards in the vicinity should be
given a thorough soaking with benzine or
a strong liquid insecticide. If practicable,
in addition to this treatment, the carpet
.should be taken up, thoroughly beaten and
hung in the sun for a few hours. An exami-
nation of the spot should be made in about
a fortnight’s time, and, if necessary, the
treatment repeated, as, it . is possible that a
few eggs may have survived. When fabrics
in cupboards are attacked, similar measures
should be taken; particular care must be
taken to give all cracks and crevices a good
soaking.
Who wrote ‘'The Red Badge of Courage,”
and can you tell me something about the
author? —8556.
Stephen Crane. He was born at Newark,
New Jersey (U.S.A.), on November, 1870.
His first story, “Maggie, a Girl of the
Streets,” was published in IS9I, but his
greatest success was made with “The Red
Badge of Courage” (1896), a realistic
though imaginary description of the experi-
ences of a private in the American Civil
War. He was also the author of various
other stories, and acted as a war corres-
pondent in the Greco-Turkish War (1897)
and the Spanish-American War (1898). He
died in Germany on June 5, 1900.
Twelve years ago I made a will leaving
everything to my tcife, and appointing her
executrix. There was one witness. I have
no copy of the will. What have I to shoio
that there is a will in existence? —8651.
The will should have been witnessed by
two persons, not beneficiaries, and should be
s in your possession. Better make a fresh one,
revoking all previous wills.
One of two trustees of an estate,- owing to
a paralytic stroke, is incapacitated from sign-
ing cheques. Can the co-trustee make pay-
ments and carry on the affairs of the estate
without application to the Court? —8641.
Usually provision for the appointment of
new trustees is made in the instrument creat-
ing the trust. In the absence of such provi-
sion application must be made to the Court.
(1) Did the Australian forces that cap-
tured the German Solomon Islands come
direct from Australia or were they a part of
the Neto Guinea contingent? (2) How
many were there? (3) Did they take pos-
session peacefully or after a fight? —B649.
(1) They were dispatched from Rabaul,
,New Guinea. (2) Two companies of infan-
try and, a machine-gun section. (3) The
German District Officer surrendered without
fighting.
/ have a violin which I have reason to
believe is a Stainer. Can you tell me some-
thing about this make, their worth and where
in Sydney I could ascertain whether it is
genuine and its value?- —S5BO.
Jacob Stainer, the first and greatest of
German violin-makers, made violins of
sweet but not very powerful tone between
the years 1641 to 1677. Tradition says that
while a journeyman he worked for a time
in Amati’s shop in Cremona, and his instru-
ments are of the Amati type, but higher and
flatter in body. A good specimen is worth
about £2O. Many violins bear forgeries of
the Stainer label. Submit the instrument
to A. E. Smith, 68 Hunter-street, Sydney.
(1) Has the war-time embargo upon the
entry of Turks into Australia been lifted?
(2) If so, under what conditions may they
enter? —B63o.
(1) Yes. (2) They must obtain the
authority of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment before they can obtain a British visa
for travel to Australia.
Can a platypus bite with its mandible, and
will it show fight if teased?— B637.
It can bite and will do so if exasperated,
charging at its tormentor and savagely
snapping.
I paid 255. on a £2 article on the lay-by
system, and then found I was unable to
carry on. Can I demand a refund of the
amount paid? Wliat law does such a case
come under? —B644.
An agreement to sell under specified con-
ditions is governed by the general law of
contract, not by any Statute. You cannot
compel a return of the money paid unless
provision to that effect was made in the
agreement. Try to effect a compromise.
Can a person not satisfied with a N.S.W.
income-tax assessment appeal against such
in court? —8638.
Yes, Judges of the District Courts have
been authorised to sit on Taxation Courts of
Review under tlie Land and Income-tax Act
1895. The jurisdiction extends to the hearing
and determining of appeals lodged against
assessments by the Commissioner of Taxa-
tion by persons within the local jurisdiction
of the Court. Points of law may be referred
to the Supreme Court, but otherwise there
is no appeal from a Taxation Court’s deci-
sion.
How should a villdnelle be written and
who are the best-known exponents of the
form ? —8648.
It is verse written in five or more tercets
(three-line stanzas) >and a quatrain, all on
two rhymes, the middle line of each tercet
rhyming with the second line of the quatrain.
The first line is used to end the second and
fourth tercets; the third line ends the first,
third and fifth tercets, and the quatrain
ends with the first and third lines. Examples
will be found in works by Austin Dobson,
W. E. Henley, Long and Gosse. Henley has
described the form in a villanelle beginning:
A dainty thing’s the villanelle,
Sly, musical, a jewel in rhyme,
It serves its purpose passing welL
I have a contract to erect a number of
small wooden in an area infested with
marine pests which attack under-water
timber. How can I make the piles immune
from their attacks? —Bs79.
No certain method. Copper sheathing has
been tried, but the metal is eroded by sea
water and in time admits the pests. Creosote
impregnation, as practised in the Northern
Hemisphere, is-not practicable with the best
Australian hardwoods, which are too close
in texture. Casings of concrete have been
recommended and experiments are being con-
ducted along these lines. But it is con-
sidered prbbable that in time the concrete will .
disintegrate under the action of sea water. .
First-aid treatment, in the case of wounds
from fish spines f— 8575.
Encourage bleeding by keeping the injured
part hanging down and by soaking it in
tepid water. The wound may be sucked by
the mouth freely without danger. Condy s
fluid or some alkaline solution, such as
weak ammonia or baking-soda, ok the house-
hold blue-bag, should be well rubbed into
the -wound. If pain is persistent, hot foments
should be applied to the injured part. Strong
coffee or tea. or a little, spirit and water
may ,be given if the patient is .faint. Should
serious symptoms arise, attention by a medi-
cal man should be obtained as soon as pos-
sible.
(1) How is synthetic menthol made from
: eucalyptus oil? (2) How is natural men-
thol made? (3) Uses of menthol? (4) From
whom can further information on the subject
be obtained? —8558.
(1) ' From piperitone, by the addition of
hydrogen gas. Piperitone is an oil extracted
from Eucalyptus dives, a tree very plentiful
on the coastal ranges of N.S.W. and Vic.
(2) Usually it is obtained by a process of
freezing from peppermint oil. It is used
largely medicinally as a local anaesthetic
and in dental pastes, etc., and extensively by
confectioners for flavoring. (3) From the
Technological Museum, Harris-street, Syd-
ney.
What is the cause of earthquakes, and how
is the position of one determined by the
seismograph ? —8569.
They are believed to be due to the break-
age of the earth’s substance under a strain.
This gives rise to vibrations which are trans-
mitted considerable distances in all direc-
tions, the upward waves sometimes" causing
great loss of life and damage to property.
The first indications of an earthquake on
the seismograph are made by longitudinal
waves (P), which are followed after an
interval by direct transverse waves (S) in
approximately the same path, but travelling
at different rates from the length of ‘time
between the arrival of the (P) and (S)
waves. The distance of the source of the
tremor from the recording station may be
inferred, and by comparing three or more
such readings in widely separated stations
it is possible to make an estimate of the. posi-
tion of the point on the earth’s surface
immediately above the centre of disturbance.
A Sydney newspaper recently stated that
neither Canada nor South Africa paid or
supported the troops from those countries
serving in the Great War, and that this teas
done entirely by Britain. Is that correct? —
8531.
The actual paying and rationing was done
by Britain in both cases, as it was in that
of Australia, but the bill was presented in
due course. You are still paying your cut
of it, and so is each individual Canuck and
Afrikander.
, What is nardoo. and how do the abos.
prepare it for food? —8552.
Nardoo is the abo. name for the spore-
• cases of a small plant Marsilea Drummondi,
, a mud-loving or aquatic fern. In summer
• the swamps in which it abounds dTy up, and
tlie plants wither away, leaving the fruit-
cases on the ground; these are collected by
the aborigines, ground between two stones
and made into a paste for use as a food.
It contains little' nutritive matter, and is
generally liberally mixed with finely-ground
stone.
(1) What arrangements were made
between Great Britain and Italy regarding
the latter's war debt? (2) Did Mussolini
wipe £300,000,000 off the debt? (3) Has
Australia's war debt to Britain been funded
at 5 per cent.? —8703.
(1) The funding agreement made in 1926
provided for payments by Italy over a period
of 62 years—£2,ooo,ooo the first year, 4
millions the second and third, 4-J- millions
fourth' to sixty-first and 2i millions in the
final year. (2) Can’t say wliat part Mus-
solini played in the negotiations, which were
conducted in camera. On March 31, 1925,
Italy’s liability was set down in a British
Treasury return as 382 millions capital and
121 millions unpaid interest. On March 31,
1927, the total liability under the funding
agreement was set down as £274,750,000, so
that over 300 millions must have been docked
off the bill. (3) Payments are being made
at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum for
a term of 35 years. The capital liability is
about £92,000,000, and the terms imply
interest payments at a shade under o
per cent.
Has America forgiven Britain any part of
her war debt and has Britain made a reduc-
tion to Franm. J+r,i v or Australia in respect
to war debts?. —8706.
In the case of the U.S.A.’s loans to Britain
and Britain’s loans to France, there has been
no specific remission of capital liability, but
the interest rate has been set at a low figure,
permitting, in the case of the American loan,
amortisation by annual payments off capital
at the rate of i per cent., the interest rate
being 3 p.c. for the first 10 years and 31
p.c. for the remainder of a 62 years’ term.
For Italy and Australia see reply to 8703.
At what rate and in what direction does
the sun move?-, —8710.
The sun has two motions. It rotates on
its axis, making a complete revolution in 25
days at the equator and 27 days at the parts
near the poles, its gaseous nature permitting
the variation. It is theorised that the sun
and its planets also move through space
at the rate of 191 kilometres per second
(632 m.p.h.) in the direction of the star
Vega, but even if Vega were not also moving
there would be no risk of a collision within
the next 40 million years.
Whereabouts is the Maelstrom, the sub-
ject of one of Edgar Allan Poe's short
stories, and is there any foundation for the
belief that this whirlpool swallows up ships?
—8568.
It is a strong current running past the
south end of the island of Moskenaes, one
of the Lofoten group on the west coast of
Norway? Though dangerous in certain states
of wind and tide, the tales of ships being
swallowed in this whirlpool are fables. Poe’s
story is purely imaginary.
Brief Answers.
T.C.W.: “Oyster Culture on the George’s
River” and “The Story of the Oyster,” both by
T. C. Roughley... .T.W.: “Mounting and Framing-
Pictures,” by Hasluck, and “Picture-frame Making,”
by Lukin... .J.H.W.: There are no tarantulas in
Australia. The species erroneously called tarantulas
are a sub-family of Clubiomdce, whereas the true
tarantula is a native of Europe and a member of
the Lyeosidce family R.C.V.: Where sunburn is
prevalent among tomatoes, it is advisable to plant
tomato .varieties with dense foliage. The plants
should be put out as early as possible, so that the
vines may attain their maximum growth before hot
weather sets in. Pinching out of laterals some-
times deprives plants of desirable shade
H.W.T.: (1) Yes. (2) It is a Canadian co. which
has been marketing imported articles, but has now-
started manufacturing here. (2) About 50 lines now
manufactured in Australia, including pharmaceutical,
toilet, flavoring, spices, scented soaps, etc
A.D.S.: (1) Write Under Secretary, Department of
Agriculture, Pretoria, Transvaal, South Africa. (2)
It is estimated that there are 42,500,27 G sheep in
South Africa. The production of wool in 1927 was
194,110,025 pounds... .1.R.: See “Australian Tea
Trees of Economic Value,” by Penfold and Morrison,
issued by the Sydney Technological Museum....
M. : Sister used to be one in charge
of a ward or in authority over nurses. But
r.ow it is often substituted as a courtesy
title for a nurse who has completed her
training... .A.M.R.: (1) and (2) Leading book-
sellers have no stocks and are unable to supply
information. Only possibility is to search second-
hand bookshops. (3) Making a search... .R.E.P.:
It was drawn on May 19, 1930. You did not draw
a prize.... 5.5.8.: From your description would
say that the picture was merely a lithographic-
reproduction and- therefore of no value... .J. 0.:
Lala Fisher’a “Grass Flowering” is now offered at
10s. 6d., and Barbara Baynton’s “Bush Studies”
(1902) at 30s 0.N.: Write Secretary, Royal
Agricultural Society of Vic., 424 Collins-street, .Mel-
bourne. .. .S.N.: Lily Brayton was born at Ilindley,
Lancashire, England, June 23, 1878. She first toured
Australia in 1909 as Katherine in “The Taming of
the Shrew,” Portia in “The Merchant of Venice,”
Mistress, Ford in “The Merry Wives of Windsor,”
Rosalind in “As You Like It,” Julian in “The
Honeymoon,” and Desdemona in “0the110”.... R.N.:
Shanghai and Japan have the largest British news-
papers but there is depression in both places. Apply
“North China Daily News” or “Japan Chronicle,”
Tokio. .. .H.M.: You can sue for work donej or,
should the owners become insolvent, you can claim
in the estate with other creditors.... 8.M.: Jockeys’
Melbourne Cup records: R. Lewis, four wins (the
Victory, Patrobus, Artilleryman and Trivalve) ; W.
H. MqLachlan, three (Prince Foote, Comedy King
and West Court). If- Lewis has had 33 mounts in
the Melbourne Cup for four : firsts, four seconds: and
one third. His first Cup mount was on Onward in
1895, and he rode Phar Lap into third place last year.
. ...G.A.: Section 18, Queensland Diseases in Stock
Act provides that application must be made to the
Stock Inspector nearest to the place of proposed
divergence for endorsement of the permit to allow
of the alteration of route... .R.N.: Marquand’s
“History of Sculpture,” J. S. Van Dyke’s “History of
Painting” and Vanderpoel’s “The Human Figure.”
M.H.: The only way to locate the advertiser is
to search the new-spaper files... .W.F.W.: No official
record. Various claims have been made, but as
such contests generally take place in a hole and
corner fashion, most of them can be disregarded....
G.M.: (1) Centaurea and Nigella may be sown in
the spring in cold climates. (2) Herbaceous plants
are perennials (plants which live more than two
years) whose stems die annually, while their roots
continue alive in the earth.. . .S.J.M.: (1) It could
be tendered as evidence of the loan. (2) Not on
the original agreement. (3) Yes, provided the
codicil is executed in exactly the same manner as
the will A.K.M.G.: Rail motors have been pro-
vided in a number of N.S.W. country districts where
the population is not sufficient to warrant ordinary
services. The first rail motor was put into opera-
tion in 1919 on the line between Grafton and Lis-
more. Second-class accommodation was provided
for passengers, also a trailer -for the transport of
cream J.M.: (1) A’ typewritten memoran-
dum giving particulars of the present sugar agree-
ment can be secured from the Prime Minister’s
Department, Canberra. (2) No. (3) No, as long as
the present agreement exists... .L.L.: T. H. Hicks,
Ltd., High-street, Mascot, and Walters and Hood,
corner Parramatta and Dartbrook roads—Loth Sydney.
W.K.: Shark liver oil is used for the currying
of leather, the tempering of steel, and in soap-
making. Extracted from perfectly fresh livers, it
is extensively used for medicinal purposes, for it is
very rich in vitamins A and D, on which cod liver
oil is principally dependent for its great therapeutic
value.. . .P.J.: Write N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture for free pamphlets “Broom Millet Growing in
N. “Broom-making on the Farm” and “Setaria
Grasses and the Millets” W.J.: Teachers who
entered the service of the Queensland Education
Department prior to December 31, 1923, and have
( a ) passed their Class I Exam, and (6) completed
their matriculation requirements may receive credit
for B.A. purposes in the subjects passed by them
for the Class I certificate A.S.J.: Yes. The follow-
ing clause should be inserted: “The dairy-farmer shall
keep the said premises free and clear of all noxious
plants and animals, and shall comply with the pro-
visions of, any law relating to noxious, plants -and
animals”... .R.E.1.: Can’t Say. Get in touch with
Cook Island Trading Co., Rarotonga,, Cook Islands.
C.F.F.: The chemist was in the right. Vic.
Poisons Act does not allow vendors to supply by post
•poisons to “any. person with whose signature he
i;i not acquainted unless such signature has been
witnesed or purports to have been witnessed by a
justice, clergyman or public officer, or is authenti-
.cated by some person known -to the vendor”. .. .
C.N.E.: In the feeding of Indian cane to stock there
are dangers which must be guarded against. All
well-matured cane should be chaffed... .T.0.D.: For
year ending June 30, 1929, Australia imported £14;466
worth of cricket balls and £31,344 worth of cricket
bats—the bulk of both from England... .Dig: The
wattle is the national emblem of Australia. Wattle
Day is observed all over Australia on August 1 or
September 1, according to the forwardness of the
wattle flowering in each State... .K.J.D.: Useful
trees for softwood timber that can be grown in the
N.S.W. coastal areas are: Hoop pine, Norfolk Island
pine, brown pine, white ( insignis ) pine, cluster pine
and coaehwood D.C.: All are abo. words. Kim-
briki means “water weed”; Grong Grong, “very
not”; Youlundry, “green wattles”; Gulargambone,
“place of galah parrots”; and Belbourie, “brushy
creeks” B.B.: “Poultry Farming in N.5.W.,” by
James Hadlington (4s. 3d., post free), Government
Printer, Sydney H. 8.: In three-handed cribbage,
five cards are dealt to each, one card of each hand
being laid out 'for crib, with one card from the
top of the pack to complete it. The player to the
dealer’s left has first lead and first show, and deals
in the succeeding hand (Many others mailed.)


§
8\
mi
mi
A
tf^ss^aaa
-3
«
>
ir
■c.
(GREATER power—6s h.p. at
3200 r.p.m.—is one of the
important advantages offered by
the new Willys Six 30-cwt. Truck.
This increased “pep” means to
truck users fast economical trans-
portation. Its hill-climbing ability
has been improved by means of
four-speed-forward transmission,
which also permits a quick
getaway with capacity loads. A
heavy counterbalanced crank-
shaft, weighing 591 b., has a
rigidity resulting in smoother
operation and long engine life.
Full forced feed lubrication
ensures the correct oiling of all
engine parts. A new hot-climate
radiator is a guarantee against
overheating even under the most
strenuous conditions. A new six-
brake system is employed, giving
greater braking area —400 square
inches spread over six shoes.
Engineering science has proved
that the many high-priced features
incorporated in the new Willys Six
30-cwt. Truck mean better service
and longer life, and assure truck
owners of less worry and more
profit than would be theirs with-
out these features.
Get in touch to-day with your nearest
Whippet-Willys Knight Dealer, and
arrange for a complete demonstration
of this low-priced six-cylinder truck.
Get behind the wheel yourself and test
out its capabilities.
HP
THE - . ' ■
Wl LLYS SIX
30CWT. TRUCK
State Distributors:
E. G. EAGER & SON, LTD.,
Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane, Q.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
68-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide, S.A.
OVERLAND VICTORIA PTY., LTD.,
117-121 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, Vic.
ADAMS MOTORS, LTD.,
442 Murray Street, Perth, W.A.
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LTD.,
148-150 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
53-63 Bathurst Street, Hobart, Tasmania.


CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Limited).
Sydney’s well-known Harbor Hotel
m
000
mu
m
000
V
Overlooking Harbor and Ocean.
QUIET and RESTFUL—
an ideal Winter Home, as
AVarm in Winter as the
South of France. The
Most Sheltered Spot on
the Harbor, with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre
Swimming Baths, Spacious
Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
TARIFF:
From 4J Guineas.
LUNCHEONS AFTER-
NOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’
trip from City by Ferry
or Motor.
RESERVATIONS: Y 3012 (4 lines).
/
A
-the Paste with
the Oyster flavour
Made from the world-famous,
luscious Stewart Island
oysters, St. Oorge “OY8TO”
Is a daintily flavoured oyster
paste that will provide, as a
relish or for sandwiches, that
'something; different’ for which
you are eternally seeking;.
Just try it. From all grocers.
Delicious Oyster Soup, too,
can be easily made from
‘OYSTO’ paste. Instructions
on wrapper.
Irvine & Stevenson’s St. Qeorge Co.
Ltd. Dunedin, New Zealand. 4 I
SMOKE-OH!
Even the Devil can’t find work for idle
hands to do these times.
Politicians have far too often taken such accusa-
tions lying down.”— N.S. IF. M.L.A.’s outburst.
All we quarrel with is the superfluous word
down.”
* *
“Pig-farmer leaves £3o,ooo—Distinguished soldier
£ 2000.” —“Daily Guardian,”
Another proof that the pen is mightier
than the sword.
# *
A BOY’S DILEMMA.
Dear Miss Dix, —I am an amateur crick-
eter, good-looking (or so the young ladies
tell me), popular in my suburb, and only
just out of my ’teens. By strict attention
to business I have made the best part of
£lO,OOO out of our Grand Old National
Game. But there is a cloud on my happi-
ness. Envious neighbors are slandering my
good name, some even going so far as to say
I am no better than a professional! A
certain Board (of “Control,” Sydney) is
the worst. What would you advise me to
do about it? I am terribly worried, —Yours
Don.
Reply. :
Dear Don,—l quite understand how you
feel over the ill-natured and ignorant goings-
on of the neighbors, and particularly this
wretched person Board. But to be quite
fair to them, Don, you brought it on your-
self, you know, in a way. The rule in’ this
matter is perfectly clear, and should have
been known to you. Any amateur who makes
over £lOOO a year out of the King of Sports
LUCKY ESCAPE.
MRS. GUMPH : “Did yer get that job I was tellin’ yer
about?”
THE WEARY ONE: “Nup. The bloke told me ’e ’ad more
’ands than ’e could do with.”
MRS. GUMPH: “He, he! You fooled him all right!
Why, the lirrel bit of work you’d do wouldn’t
make no difference.”
is always liable to be suspected of profes-
sionalism in this censorious world of ours.
Your best plan would be to sit down at once
and write out a cheque (“Pay Board of
‘Control,’ or Ordei-, the sum of £9000”), and
slip it under the front door of “Control”
next time you ai*e passing that way. If you
take this course I am sui-e you will hear no
more of the affair, —Yours, Dorothy Dix.
the remedy.
“Women residents of Canberra resent being trans-
ferred to inferior quarters from Brassey House, which
is to be converted into bachelors’ quarters.”
— “Herald.”
Don’t be depressed, ye beauteous ’Berra
daughters.
Make up your faces and display your
ca lves ;
And then, instead of seeking better quarters,
The brutes may seek in you their better
halves!
M. G.
THE DOMESTIC ARTS.
MRS NIBLICK: “My husband caught a stymie yesterday while playing golf!”
MRS. GNUWED: “How lucky! Did your cook bake it or boil it?”
“The fielding generally was slack, but Duleep-
sinhji was always on his toes.” — “Herald.”
“Tiptoe through the Tulips.” as the song
goes.
* *
“She thinks about nothing hut clothes,” was
the view
Of her friends, and I thought them
unkind;
And then I caught sight of her clothes, and
I knew
That she couldn’t have much on her mind.
DIARY OF A K.C. WHO TELLS.
January.—Abednego Mordecai, the solici-
tor, called at my chambers to-day accom-
panied by a short, broad stranger with a
bullet head and broken nose. “What did
you do him in with, McGinty,” I asked —
“lead piping or a bottle?” “Gorstruth!”
gasped McGinty. I smiled. It is good busi-
ness to mystify these simple souls. “You
assured me that no less than three of the
faithful 12 were “in the bag,” so, after a
forceful address in which I stressed the pal-
pable innocence of McGinty, the villainy of
his enemies, and the imbecility of the Judge,
I sat down feeling fairly confident.
Sure enough the verdict was “Not Guilty.”
“Don’t do it again,” I warned my radiant
client over a parting drink, “or if you must,
see, I read it,” I explained.
“Wodger mean?” “The news-
paper you mentioned,” I re-
plied brightly. “The one that
gives you so much publicity.”
The ice having been thus tact-
fully broken, confidential rela-
tions were soon established
and my caller explained that
he had turned the trick “wiv
a bottle,” and expected to be
arrested that evening.
It should be one of my
touch-and-go cases, as Nurse
calls them (I call my jury-
squarer Nurse), but, after all,
danger is the spice of life —•
and, anyhow, the danger is
McGinty’s, not mine.
February.—lt was lead pip-
ing, after all. Why, oh why,
as I asked Nurse, will people
not learn to confide in their
professional advisers ? And
why, oh why will they not
realise the necessity for cau-
tion? It would make the
work of pi'ofessional men like
myself so much easier. The
police found the piping, with
a considerable amount of blood
and hair still adhering to
it, in McGinty’s back yai-d
yesterday.
March.—l was handicapped
at the trial by my inability to
put my client in the box. His
14 previous convictions for
crimes of violence would have
told against him in eross-
examination. Hovrever, Nurse
do, my dear fellow, do I beg of you, get rid
of the evidence afterwards.” But, of course,
he won’t. As Nurse has just said laughingly,
“They never do.”
10-2-4.
* H-
There was a young Aussie named Line
Who said “I have struggled in vine
Our accent to spot,
I therefore will not
Attempt to detect it agine.”
WASTED WIT.
From “Lambertiana” in Sydney “Sun”
“There was a wealthy would-be art patron who
commissioned George to paint his po>-trait. We’ll
call him Samuels. Instead of a cheque George re-
ceived his portrait back with a curt, bombastic note
stating that it was disappointing, and was therefore
returned. George’s reply was worthy of the occasion:
‘Dear Mr. Samuels!
‘Oh ! Mr. Samuels !
‘Yours truly,
‘George W. Lambert!’”
The conduct of the recipient of the above,
which the writer of “Lambertiana” has over-
looked, was also rather characteristic.
Rightly concluding that the artist regarded
the letter as sufficient punishment, Mr.
Samuels turned exultantly to his wife, cry
ing: “Rachel dollink, the poor
mug ain’t going to sue me,
after all. You’re on a new
fur coat over this stroke of
luck, my tear, and the next
one as tells me artists is, piz-
ness men—why, I’ll call him
a .liar; always provided he
ain’t too big.”
* *
With Australia it is not so
much a case of “Money from
Home” nowadays as “Money
from Whom?”
* *
Following on Marshal Pil-
sudski’s allegation that the
Polish constitution was “like
a piece of rotting meat, mixed
with foul bacon, putrid cab-
bage and as much unwashed
as the spirit of the Polish
deputies,” Mr. W. M. Hughes
is reported to be starting an
action claiming damages for
infringement of copyright and
plagiarism.
* H-
FAME !
“So you write for the
papers?” she cooed. "You are
a literary man?”
Remembering my hal f-
crown pars.. I said I was. Sli >
produced what looked suspi-
ciously like an autograph
album. “Ah, w’ell,” I mused,
“we all have to face it. Kip-
ling, Shaw, the Laureate”
“You must -work terribly
hard,” she said. “I suppose
you always have to be post-
ing things.”
“Constantly,” I admitted,
not without a touch of pride.
“Then lend us a tuppenny
stamp,” she said. “I want to
write to Edgar Wallace for
his autograph.”
V Piecrust.
¥
These are times when every billet has its
bullet.
* *
“The wax vesta is now practically unknown in
Australia.” — “News.”
The country having at last adopted the
slogan “Safeties first.”
,“The Vic. Law Institute is pressing for legislation
to protect the public against defaulting lawyers.”
Sydney has had shark-proof enclosures
for some time.
THE GREAT CANBERRA SIDESHOW
AND WONDER MENAGERIE.
Absolutely no free list, owing to colossal
overhead and deadhead.
Featuring Zozo Seullin in his stupendous
Mystery Act
Balancing the Budget.
£5OO will be donated to the Home for Worn-
out Taxpayers if any member of the audience
can explain what this is all about.
Blithering Blazes Billy
In daring feats of side-stepping, twisting
and somersaulting.
Clowns! Clowns! Clowns!
Hundreds of ’Em.
See them in their droll antics on the hori-
zontal bar, refreshment bar, public bar, or
any other bar where they can secure a foot-
ing.
Don’t Miss the Big Parade of White
Elephants.
(The management apologises for the tem-
porary absence of Teddy, the wild-cat
tamer, who was severely mauled by a couple
of his pets during a recent performance.)
God save the King, the country and all
the rest of us!
D. McM.
# *
NURSERY RHYME.
Rich John Brown had a pimple on his nose,
So herds of doctors came to him with
nurses in white pinnies.
His trouble was a trifle, but they look off all
his clothes,
And called it by a Latin name and charged
a hundred guineas.
* *
VALUES.
“Slump Prices: Player Pianos recently £220, now
£75. Motor-car £35 (new). Gramophones, etc.,
at third ordinary price. Other bargains. The Egg
Shop.”— “S. M. Herald.”
Six rationed shop-assistants rushed to
serve the only customer the Polyglot Em-
porium had had that morning.
“We can sell you a mansion that cost
£4500 for a couple of hundred,” said one.
“I’m not buying houses in the present
state of my finances.”
“What about a sumptuous Rolls-Cadillae
for £5O, no deposit, and generous terms?”
“I’m trying to sell my Foi’d.”
“I have hei*e a super-grand player-piano,”
put in another shop-assistant. “It’s worth
£4OO. A tenner cash will buy it. Come
now.”
HOW SHE’D PREFER IT.
“Edith has lost all interest in life since her husband
died. She says she simply wants to be cremated.”
“Yes; but she told me once that she hates the C.”
“A fur coat for your wife,” babbled the
property specialist.
“A pearl necklace,” cried the motor expert.
“Listen to me,” roared the customer.
“What I want is half a loaf of bread and
a quarter of pound of butter. And can I
get sixpenn’orth of fish here, or do I have
to go to a fishshop?”
DUST AND ASHES.
‘So Woodfull brings the Ashes home,”
>S aid Jim , across the surging foam.
Well pleased he surely must
Faal with himself, and glow with pride
Jo know our faith he’s justified
And warranted our trust,”
“m*? 0 and you may bet,” said Bill,
‘ That Bradman’s even gladder still—
You see, he brings the Dust,”


BLACK & WHITE
r
mmi
it?
m
V, -«p,
wm.
mm
Bf
»»-■
Hli'-V •
.
: ■ p
w.m
r:
& «;: '• '
-
'<£ 1 " Z 0 %
.
:
m
:
•■ ' : ‘
: :;...: X;
: v
maßm
/ iiAt •
iIIHMwBMBMiiiwHI
;
V
' .. : , %
» ■ -
:
m
..naRBSSrI
SCOTCH WHISKY
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION OF THE COMMONWEALTH CUSTOMS.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., 1 to 5 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
What Is the Matter with Us?
Our substitutes for statesmen and our financial
editors have given nothing to assure the layman that
the malady has been named and the cure prescribed.
The most threadbare line is to liken the nation to
an individual who has grossly lived beyond his
means. The simile does not fit. The States are
overflowing with every necessary commodity to keep
a man’s back warm, the rain off him and his belly
full; but there is no money with which to buy.
Want of wages, whatever the cause, is the root
of our evil. It might be suggested, as a remedy, to
take the drastic measure of stopping, as far as
possible, all of our products going out as raw
material and make a start by milling all wheat,
thereby keeping the enormous by-product to make
millions out of milk, butter, cheese and pig-meat, as
well as enhance the productive power of our. soil
many fold. Also mill all our wool and obtain
shillings per pound instead of pence, and finally and
absolutely refrain from expending a bob in wages
outside of Australia. Might not the adverse trade
balance then be mythical and the payment of the
national debt magical ? Remos.
The causes of our trouble are plain
enough:—
(1) For many years our Governments
have been borrowing about 40 millions a
year. In one year they borrowed 56 mil-
lions. The bulk of this money was spent
on alleged “works,” mostly unprofitable.
(2) The refusal of the lender to advance
any more threw an army of roadmakers,
railway-builders, etc., out of work; also a
second army of people who had been minis-
tering to the first army.
(3) The running of unprofitable railways,
etc., and the over-manning of the Public
Service had entailed annual deficits, which
were “funded”—in plain English, paid for
out of loans. When loans were no longer
practicable, revenue had to meet expenditure;
which meant retrenchment.
(4) While 40 millions of borrowed money
was being scattered year by year, of course
there was a boom. Every day seemed like
Christmas. When the borrowing- and spend-
ing suddenly stopped and the bubble burst,
trade fell off; and that meant more retrench-
ment.
(5) Things would have been bad, anyhow,
on account of drought in four States and a
simultaneous slump in the markets for almost
all our chief products—a slump running from
15 p.c. to 55 p.c.
(6 and finally) Nobody knows what will
happen if —as seemed almost inevitable —we
have to go to our foreign creditors and tell
them we cannot pay their interest. Such
a thing has never happened to any Aus-
tralian State before; and the unknown is
always liable to be terrifying. What sort
of a crash would follow? Until doubt on
this point has been settled there will not
be free general spending. Those who have
a little money in their pockets will keep it
to see them through they don’t know what.
These crises are rarely simple. They
nearly always develop complications. In
our case we have two problems, not one:
(1) how to pay our way in future; (2) how
to tide ourselves over our trouble until we
can pay our way. Sir Otto Niemeyer has
been dealing almost entirely with the second
problem—a smaller one than the other, no
doubt, but calling for more painful remedies.
This minor problem involves three things:
(1) Sustaining in some way the three
armies which have been thrown out of work
by the stoppage of loan-spending.
(2) Providing the interest on the over-
seas loans —largely paid hitherto out of loans
themselves.
(3) Removing the doubt and anxiety about
the crash before alluded to, so that people
will unbutton their pockets, whereby trade
will move again and employment will
increase.
One point that must be emphasised is
that the two armies which were wholly
maintained out of loans have lost their
occupation for good. It is no use putting
them on to unemployment relief work with
the idea that presently their old jobs will
come back to them. They won’t; those
jobs are definitely gone. Others must be
made or found for them; and the sooner
they are made or found, the better.
But the difficulty of making or finding
them will be tremendous until the doubt
and anxiety before referred to are removed.
A fortnight ago the removal of those
obstacles seemed imminent. Niemeyer,
accredited by the Bank of England, had,
after examining the situation, drawn up a
scheme for this very purpose. But, be-
cause it involves sacrifices, a section of the
Federal Government opposed it, and so the
doubt remains. And while the doubt re-
mains the anxiety remains; and while that
is with us there will be no substantial im-
provement in our condition.
A Gold Bonus—with a Difference.
The idea of a pound-an-onnee bonus on
gold production has had a very sympathetic
reception in Otago (M.L.), a province which
looks back with regret upon the days when
its river-beds were paved with the yellow
metal. Dunedinites —mostly Scotch, and
addicted to logic—argue, however, that it is
up to the Bank of England to pay the bonus.
They work it out this way.
The i*ate of increase in the world’s gold
supply is 2 p.c. a year, whereas an increase
of 3 p.c. is said by most economists to be
necessary to keep prices stable. The Bank of
England, whenever its gold reserve falls below
150 millions, puts up the bank rate, a pro-
cedure estimated by A. J. Liversage to cost
Britain 10 millions to 35 millions a year,
which averages a bigger premium than £1 an
ounce on gold produced within the Empire
would amount to. As the Empire produces 70
per cent, of the world’s gold, other sources
needn’t be worried about.
It is recalled that when the M.L. gold
boom petered out, in the middle ’eighties, the
average yield per ton of ore crushed was over
loz., whereas last year the Junneau mine,
of Alaska, working with modern machinery,
showed a good profit on stone that went only
4s. lid. to the ton, though very high wages
were paid.
It is a part of the Dunedin scheme that
M.L. should import any extra miners needed
from the U.K., admit British mining mach-
inery duty-free, and make income-tax conces-
sions on British capital invested in gold-
mining ventures.
Senator McLachlan (S.A.), who first pro-
posed the gold bonus in Australia, is still
satisfied that it will have to. be introduced.
He holds to his scheme for the issue of bonds
in Australia to pay for the gold (plus
bonus), the gold itself being used to buy back
our loans in London.
The Forestry Bond Business.
“Huffin-Guffin”: In, almost all the old
settled districts of Victoria are splendid
specimens of Pinus insignis up to 70 or 80
years old. The old Western District sheep
stations all had the trees planted about the
homesteads in the early days. If there was
money in growing the trees now, surely
these already grown would be a guide. What
do we find? I know an old station pro-
perty, now cut up, which has a splendid
avenue of pines. There is a sawmill
within 10 miles of the timber. Yet on mak-
ing calculations the owner of the trees could
not even balance the. cost of cutting and
delivering the logs with the price he was
offered for them.
The Huddling Habit.
How hard we do struggle to keep the wind
in the old bladder! There are not a great
deal too many houses and flats in and around
Sydney to shelter the whole population,
allowing one house or flat to one family;
yet thousands of dwellings are shrieking
for tenants. In some cases, there have been
rent reductions; in a fashionable street in
a fashionable suburb two dwellings offering
almost exactly the same accommodation stand
side by side, one let on lease a few months
ago at £9 a week, the other let a few days
ago at £5. But, generally, there is a strong
indisposition to “bring the rent down,” with
the result that, driven to find cheaper lodg-
ings, two, three or even more families are
now sharing the premises and the rent.
However, this is only a passing phase.
We may not willingly let the hot air out of
our investments; but gradually the burden
of supporting unproductive assets will wear
out the strongest of us. So rents will gradu-
ally come down all round and capital values
with them, and the present undesirable
habit of huddling three families in one tene-
ment will disintegrate.
Fish-canning Possibilities.
“Derma”: “Iron Chink” says (B. 7/8/’3O)
that the waters surrounding Eyre Penin-
sula contain enough fish to keep the whole
of Australia supplied with the canned article,
and that there are dozens of fishermen cap-
able and ready to supply a cannery with all
the fish it needs at a penny a pound.
Before any industry can be a success the
supply of raw material must be regular and
certain, and there is no evideuce that any
section of the Australian coast can definitely
be classed as “teeming” in suitable canning
fish at all seasons. Furthermore, experience
has shown that freelance fishermen cannot
be relied on to keep a cannery supplied with
fish at a flat rate. As long as the weather is
good and fish are plentiful, the cannery will
receive supplies; but when bad weather sets
in and fish are scarce, the fishermen send
their catches to the fresh-fish markets, where
higher prices prevail.
In the sardine fisheries of France, the
quantitative ratio between the best and worst
years’ catch is 16 to 1. Many of the fac-
tories for canning sild in Norway have been
closed in recent years owing to the scarcity
of fish in certain seasons. A factory that
can only operate intermittently can never be
successful, especially under Australian labor
conditions.
Most Australian fish are migratory. Some
are without doubt suitable for canning ; others
may not be. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment has been criticised for spending money
on a trawler by means of which, and with
the aid of scientific and economic research,
it is hoped to learn these and other essen-
tial facts about the Australian fish. This
preliminary investigation is an accepted
feature of fishery development in all great
fishery countries.
I wonder how much good Australian cash
has been wasted in carrying out projects
without a thorough preliminary investiga-
tion.
Mineral Oils Extraction.
R. H. Crozier. the inventor of the Crozier
processes for retorting shale-oil. writes to
The Bulletin from the Comorin, home-
ward bound (the processes are owned and
operated by Mineral Oils Extraction, Ltd.,
of London) :
The N.S.W. oil-shale contains products—paraffin
wax and lubricants—of greater relative value than
the motor spirit obtained by “cracking.” It is
doubtful, therefore, whether cracking such an oil
would yield as much profit as straight refining.
The Crozier process has been proved successful for
the treatment of practically all types of oil-shales,
and also for torbanite, brown coal, lignite, cannel
coal and for most bituminous coals. The limitation,
in the case of bituminous coal, is the caking quality
of the coal. No claim is made for the treatment of
those coals of high caking quality which fuse and
coalesce on heating, though a new Crozier process
is in course of development that will deal with such
materials.
In her oil-shale deposits Australia possesses the raw
material for the development of a new primary
industry of the greatest national importance. Present
conditions parallel those obtaining in the metal
mining industry prior to the discovery of the cyanide
process and the froth flotation process. An abundance
of raw material exists, and an economical and prac-
tical process is now available for its treatment.
Dorman, Long and Co., who are interested
in a shale proposition at Latrobe (Tas.),
have given the owners of the Crozier pro-
cess permission to erect a plant on their pro-
perty for test and demonstration purposes.
A man with constructive notions about
the best, way of reducing unemployment and
increasing production is R. V. Dulhunty, a
N. S. Wales surveyor who has been spend-
ing his spare time lately in efforts to induce
Governments to lend unemployment relief
funds to farmers, so that they can improve
their holdings, employing labor" in the process,
and thus pave the way to increased produc-
tion. Dulhunty’s idea is that loans should
be at 2\ per cent., repayable in 25 years.
The 2J per cent.jpart of the notion has been
adopted in the Speck, but in N. S. Wales
Minister Thorby’s plan for advances at o
per cent., repayable in four years (first year
free of interest), holds the field. Dulhunty
says this might be acceptable to wheat-
farmers, but doesn’t meet the needs of the
coastal cow-cockies, who, if they increase
their pasture areas, will need to save as
much as possible to buy extra stock. To
make two cows graze where one chewed the
cud before seems likely to increase exports,
Australia’s pressing need, and on that score
alone Dulhunty’s very practical proposal
deserves a good hearing.
# * ❖ *
Queensland Treasury has shaken off the
last of its State station incubuses with the
sale of Keeroongooloo to a private co. and
the transfer of Buckingham Downs to the
Land Administration Board. The price paid
for the former was £38,500, less than a third
of the amount paid by the Labor Government
of the day when the grandiose and not very
sweet-smelling scheme was launched. The
final balance-sheet shows that the total cost
of the stations was £2,420,000, and the
total realised £520,000, leaving a net loss of
£1,900,000.
* * *
The squatter is a man who just sits down
and lets his sheep earn money for him —
sometimes. But there are other times. Frank
Bond, of Vindex, told the Queensland Land
Court that the property had cost him over
£64,000 in the past four years. It is as good
a run of its kind as there is in Australia, and
well watered by sub-artesian bores. But it
was in the heart of the four years’ drought
that has hit that section of Queensland so
hard; so handfeeding was necessary to keep
the sheep alive, and that is always a game
of “back up or forfeit.”
4: * * *
Yet another company is in process of flota-
tion in Brisbane to exploit the Great Barrier
Reef. Riches are there, all right; the diffi-
culty always has been to market them at a
profit. As far back as the ’seventies a
Rockhampton firm was canning turtle soup,
and there have been dozens since; but
the enterprises have never lasted. How-
ever, this newest co. proposes to put a
new string on the old bow: it will dredge
coral and crush it for sale to the N.Q. cane-
farmers. The lime is in good and steady
demand for sweetening the land.
* * * *
At least one industry has escaped the
depression. Half a million pounds’ worth of
business was handled by Australian radio-
dealers during the first six months of 1930.
There are 13,564 more licenses than there
were in December, 1929. First the Govern-
ment’s embargo on imported radio items and
then the demand for sets with which to hear
the Test results are the chief responsible
factors. It is estimated that a further
10,000 sets were sold during July.
* # * *
Since the war the Prussian genius for
organisation has been turned to national
cleanliness. Thousands of slot machines
for washing the face and hands have budded
at the railway stations. You put a pfennig
in the slot, and for two seconds you get hot
water, for one second and a half liquid soap
and for the next six seconds rinsing water.
Then a blast of hot air dries your skin for
51 seconds, and a drop of liquid face cream
completes the operation. The device returns
a small profit.
* * * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: My experience of
construction work in Australia, England and
U.S.A. has given me a fair knowledge of
reinforced-concrete work, and I can assure
“Jackaburra” (B. 20/8/’3O) that the cask
is “out” as a r nent container. It is only
useful to a storekeeper who sells a few pounds
at a time and goes to the cask with a scoop
for it. An argument used in selling im-
ported cement used to be that the stuff from
overseas would set quicker than the Aussie
product—a very important thing on outside
work. But nowadays we have plenty of
Australian-made rapid-setting cement —I’ve
seen the S.A. (Brighton) Cement Co.’s
“Hardite” stand wheeled traffic 24 hours
after being laid.
* * * #
“Sun Sim”: This shows that we haven’t
come to earth yet. Last week shearing cut
out at a big station in the Moree district
(N.S.W.) under the new award. Cheques
were not as large as hitherto. This, however,
did not stop the men without conveyances
from hiring a car, at a cost of £3 per head,
to come out to the shed and take them in to
the nearest township.
* * * •
The excise figures show that up to the
end of the year finishing on June 30 Aus-
tralia exported 2,186,420 gallons of wine,
mostly to Britain. That is gratifying in
a way, but the news that 1,647,179 of the
total were heavy sweet wines in bulk is not.
Few people outside Britain drink a wine of
that type except as a liqueur, though France
and other countries import a proportion for
fortifying purposes to blend with their own
often maipre productions. No country will
ever become renowned as a wine producer
unless it can market quantities of the bever-
age type, as opposed to the heavy, highly
alcoholised types. We make magnificent
wines of the beverage type —light clarets
and hocks, for instance —but few seem to
want them.
* * * *
The big harvester works at Sunshine
(Vic.) have been experimenting with a new
high-speed metal-cutting alloy, and a demon-
stration was lately given before a party
of students and experts. The tool cut
east iron revolving at 300 ft. per minute and
showed no sign of ill-usage. Ordinary
machine tools cannot be used at over 50ft.
per minute.
# * # *
The recent Queensland Motor Show pro-
vided plenty of evidence of the vogue of
Australian-made tyres. Among the non-
Britisli cars and trucks 68 per cent, were
shod by Dunlop-Perdriau, while in the
separate exhibition of British vehicles every
car and truck was fitted with either Dunlop-
Perdriau or Barnet Glass makes.
* * * *
The Broken Hill Prop, expects to have,
the first unit of the new coke plants at
Newcastle working by the end of November,
and then the co. should begin to feel the
benefit of cheaper fuel for the blast furnaces.
The plant when completed will be one of
the most efficient in the world. Coal sup-
plies are ample. The co. expects its own
mine, the John Darling, to be a large pro-
vider by the end of the current year.
* * * *
“ J.R.K.”: A co. has been formed ir.
Auckland (Petrol Co., Ltd.) which claims
it can “make” motor spirit—“tested on all
classes of engines, except aeroplanes, and
answering every test” —for sd. per gallon.
Pound shares have changed hands at £2O
and upwards, and early developments are
expected. It seems tha't motorists, instead
of filling up at bowsers, will carry the mak-
ings in small bottles, and when petrol gets
low will dispense their own with the aid of a
bucket of water. So far, however, the oil
cos. have not lost any sleep over the miracle.
* * * #
A Sydney firm manufacturing a nitro-
cellulose varnish similar to another well-
known (American) brand, but sold at a
lower price, experienced record sales during
the last couple of months, notwithstanding
the general slackness. The manager puts
it down to the fact that big furniture and
similar concerns, which are having a very
lean time, are hunting for the most economi-
cal materials in order to cut costs. The
same need for economy in household finances
explains the prosperity of the bargain base-
ments and “nothing-over-25.-6d.” stores.
* * * *
Prior to 1923 our annual peanut consump-
tion (3500 tons) was imported, mostly from
China. In that year Australia commenced
to grow its own ; 60 tons were produced. The
new industry soon passed babyhood; in 1927
£50,000 worth of treatment plant was erected
at Kingaroy (Q.). By 1929 annual pro-
duction had passed current requirements —
about 4000 tons. Nevertheless 1000 tons
arrived from overseas, with the result that
that amount of the Australian crop had to
be carried over into next year. Presumably
the Commonwealth Government will see that
such a thing doesn’t happen again.
* * Us *
The motor-importing trade of M.L. had
the worst upheaval in its history lately when,
as a reprisal against the raising of the Cana-
dian duty on M.L. butter from one cent to
four cents per pound, the Government took
Canadian motor-cars out of the preferential
into the general tariff schedule, where thej
are subject to a duty of 35 p.c. Importers
have protested against this being done with
out notice. They say they cannot cancel
orders in a hurry, because cars have to b
specially made for M.L. with a right-ham.
drive instead of the left-hand drive in vogue
in America. Canadian motor cos. say the
tariff change means a loss of million
dollars’ worth of business a year to them,
and they are appealing to the new Adminis-
tration, headed by R. B. Bennett, to re-
enact the reciprocal treaty with M.L. It
seems likely that M.L.’s drastic tariff move
had a similar end in view. Priminister
Forbes is going to the Imperial Conference
via Canada, and he has taken the Controller
of Customs with him.
* * * *
If motor transport has hit Australian
railways hard, the community gets back on
the swings some of what it loses on the
roundabouts. Dunlop-Perdriau calculate
that there are 106,600 motor trucks running
in Australia to-day. Wages for drivers come
to over 20 millions a year, while in petrol
taxes £1,178,000 p.a. goes into the revenue.
There will be nearly a million more when
the extra 3d. a gallon is passed on. And
to that must be added the registration fee
of from £lO to £25 paid by each truck.
* * * . *
Six years ago the Australian buyer had
his choice of 325 makes and styles of motor-
cars and trucks. To-day there are only
about 56 brands of cars for sale or hire,
while the truck varieties number no more
than 25. Mass production and the world
demand for lower costs have brought this
change about. There is a story in this
which the Australian who runs —mostly into
debt of late —may well read.
* * * *
South Australian almond-growers made
a reasonable request to Forde of the Customs
when he visited Adelaide. They asked for
help similar to that given to Queensland
peanut-growers. The land is a glory in
blossom time, but the almond kernels are
undersold by supplies dumped from the
Mediterranean. The Minister promised
earnest consideration, and remarked, incident-
ally, that the peanut harvest is now worth a
quarter of a million sterling.
* * # *
In spite of talk of trade depression in
Britain, many manufacturing concerns have
earned good profits during the past financial
year. General Electric, of which Sir Hugo
Hirst, Australia’s recent acquaintance of
“the Big Four,” is chairman, has announced
a trading income for its past year of
£1,179,000. Allowing for debenture interest,
depreciation and other charges and adding
£362,072 brought forward, there was
£l,oi 6,000 for distribution. Ordinary share-
holders drew 10 per cent, plus a 4 per cent,
bonus.
* * * *
Copra, on which so many hopes were built
when the Federal Government sold the ex-
propriated German plantations in New
Guinea some years ago, has steadily dropped
in price until to-day the stuff is scarcely
saleable at a profit. The holders of the ex-
propriated plantations, mostly returned sol-
diers, got the Canberra people last year to
cut the export duty imposed on the product
from 255. to 20s. per ton. A further reduc-
tion to 15s. has now been made, and the next
step must inevitably be a revaluation of the
plantations, which were sold on tender under
the t.-p. system and in most cases for more
than they were worth. If the financial posi-
tion cannot be adjusted, then it is a cer-
tainty that 75 per cent, of the holdings will
come back on the hands of the Federal autho-
rities. .
There is money in gladiolus cultivation.
George Swenson, of Ballarat one of Vic-
toria’s leading bulb-fanciers, has just sold
his champion corm, “Gertrude Swenson, to
a Californian gardener for £26.


fdhfd
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Orescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUM T 9 WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS *T.
Sydney Rep*: H. C. HTNCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
50
ON SALK AT
ALL
NEWSAGENTS
EACH WEEK.
Subjects Weekly.
ALSO COLORED PICTURES
WORTH FRAMING.
“The Australasian”
The Paper all Australians appreci-
ate, and their friends overseas, too!
% ✓
7
II
Monarch
Cigars
HbßHcra>g sAitken
k Wholesale
mii'l Distributors
. K j Sqdneij NSW
On time
i
t
“ GYM A” Watches can be relied
upon to get you there on time. No
fear of being a minute fast or a
minute slow.
They are ON TIME ALL THE
TIME and, unlike many other
watches, are absolutely interchange-
able, so that in case of accident,
any spare part is available to your
watchmaker, allowing him to give
you prompt service at a minimum
cost.
For style and appearance "CYMA”
watches have no equal, as each of
the exquisite models is designed to
meet the demand of the most
fastidious.
" c lolie c lo)orld , s c lo)onder c lo)atch
Sold by all jewellers
5®
m
m.
jr.
. J. -r-
I
s
M 5
i
..r
City Halt
Brisbane
Qi'orldQ'a
amouS
CYMA
WATCHES
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
POVERTY
POINT
“Say Bo”: Lon Chaney, who died as a
result of bursting a blood vessel in imitat-
ing a parrot for a talkie, started as a low
comedian. He visited Australia 17 years
ago with the Ferris Hartmann Opera Co.
“Cine Ma”: The state of legit, is not as
rotten as it might be imagined from the
spectacle of closed theatres everywhere. Large
numbers of artists have slipped into the
movie parlors. Union Theatres are now
employing none but Australia vaudevillains.
“O'. P. Queue”: Maybe Hugh D. Mclntosh,
with a vaudeville circuit in view, will take
a tip from the big R.K.O. circuit of the
U.S.A., which bills comedian William J.
Kennedy as "the well-known politician and
late mayor of Hoosac Falls, N.Y.” I know
any number of damn funny politicians.
“Stephen Sink”: I have it on the authority
of a man just back from London that Edgar
Wallace runs a factory of 60 hands. One
suspected it when, in addition to writing his
novels, running two West End plays, provid-
ing a daily newspaper article on racing and
occasional articles on the same subject for
other journals, he took on the rewriting of
the American script of “Rio Rita” for
London consumption.
“ Jonop”: A Yank vaudeville house pulled
off a good publicity stunt recently by engag-
ing an English magician who introduced his
mystic teapot. Prohibition agents woke up
to what was happening by the big business
attracted. They found the magician asking
audiences to call for any drink they chose,
and delivering real goods. The rush on close-
up stalls seats near the runway was enormous.
“C.R.”: Revival of “Lilac Time” at Mel-
bourne Royal recalls that when the Schubert
operetta was first performed there a watch-
ful music-lover wrote to the Firm complain-
ing that none of the melodies were new, that
many of the selections had been heard in
Melbourne before, and that such a reputable
concern as J.C.W. should not descend to
plagiarism.
“L. de R.”: The case of Frank Clewlow’s
voice being lost owing to its exact corres-
pondence with the more powerful tone
of an orchestra in a recitative at the
Town Hall isn’t the only one of
its kind that has happened to a Mel-
bourne orchestra. At the Newmarket Theatre
the musicians were required to sustain a note
for two bars in the overture. While they
were doing so a train passed and the driver
blew the whistle. The note corresponded
exactly with the note being played by the
orchestra. The power of the driver being
considerably greater than that of the musi-
cians the orchestra was thrown into com-
plete confusion.
“X. Volt”: Talkies will probably soon
be as prevalent in the Backblocks as they
are in the cities as a result of a deal made
with German interests recently by J.C.W.
for the latest thing in reproducers. The
apparatus requires no wiring, megaphones
being worked by wireless. How it can be
done was demonstrated at Melbourne Town
Hall during the Radio Exhibition when a
tiny beam station that could be mounted
on a chair transmitted to a receiving station
in the gallery. The new system is dead
simple and costs a tenth of the American
installations.
“L. de Rideau”: Touching the element of
snobbery in Melbourne’s musical apprecia-
tion. Nobody cares for it less than that fine
artist violinist Tarczynski, and nobody
realises it more than the director of one
of the orchestras in which Tarczynski takes
part. The director recently requested his
combination, a collection of amateurs and
professionals, to appear at the final rehear-
sal in “evening apparel,” presumably so that
there should not be a bow out of place on
the opening night. Everybody acceded to
the request, including Tarczynski. He
turned up in a pair of white silk pyjamas.
“A. Major”: One of the evil things the
unholy trinity—gramophone, radio and talkie
—is doing to the present generation is to
distort all its notions of what sounds ought
to sound like. The worst offender is the
talkie, which plays horrible tricks with
human speech and murders music. Second
worst is the radio. The gramophone can
now reproduce speech with tolerable correct-
ness, though it can never make a piano
sound like anything but a xylophone func-
tioning in an iron tank. Worst fault of
the radio, musically considered, is that it
cannot master the staccato. It can repro-
duce a sweet-flowing legato melody with
gradual crescendos and diminuendos, sung
by a fiddle or a soprano or even a ’cello or
a baritone (but not by a piano, which is
percussive) without inviting assault with
a meat-axe. But the dynamic sort of music
that in places alternates silences with crashes
simply can’t be done. It’s like trying to
write on blotting-paper. Radio experts tell
me that if you fired a revolver in front of
a mike the sound couldn’t be transmitted at
all—-it is too sharp, sudden and short-lived.
Probably none of these electrical and
mechanical methods of transmitting sound
will ever be perfect, though they are likely
to improve. The devil of it is that when
they do improve the world that has been
relying on them for its guidance in music
and diction will feel that something is
seriously wrong.
“C.” : By a coincidence, there are two plays
on at the moment in Melbourne, whose pivotal
centre is a baby. One is “The Plough
and the Stars” at the Bijou, i and the
other “Little Accident” at the King’s. The
first play is by Sean O’Casey, an Irish-
man, and the other is by a couple of Ameri-
cans. Their respective managements’ ways
of treating their particular infants is inter-
esting. The King’s baby is a real baby,
selected from 700 applicants. The manage-
ment believes this makes the play realistic,
because that is the way managements think.
The baby at the King’s is a real baby, but
dramatically it is as dead as mutton. It is
merely an excuse for the playwrights to work
up a little surface sentiment, moisten an
eye or two, while tickling their audience by
some mildly salacious references to obstetrics.
The baby at the Bijou is a rag baby, but
dramatically it is alive and kicking, because
the dramatist has made it the centre of a
grim tragedy of real life. The Bijou baby
is a shawl stuffed with rag, and on the night
tlie present writer saw it, the head fetched
away and dangled two feet from the body,
with comical effect. Nevertheless, the reality
of the situation remained unimpaired.
“C.R.”: Elizabeth Apperly, who gave a
brilliant performance in Isabel Handley’s
“Handcuffs for One” in Melbourne recently,
is an Irishwoman who was with the original
Abbey Players in Dublin. Her stage name
was then Ann Coppinger. When she
appeared recently in a Hibernian r6le at
an amateur show in Melbourne, one of the
daily-paper critics praised her acting but
strongly criticised her accent.
“Riom”: For years a notice was posted
in Melbourne’s old Opera House intimating
to performers that no jokes were to be per-
petrated at the expense of the Jewish race.
The mandate came from Sam Nathan, furni-
ture king and theatre director, who died in
Melbourne lately.
“Cine Ma”: John Brownlee continues to
justify The Bulletin’s original estimate of
him as not only a great singer but a unique
variant from the traditional type of grand-
opera actor. Referring to his performance
of Rigoletto at the last Covent Garden
season, Ernest Newman, the leading English
critic, said that he was “the most promising
newcomer Covent Garden has had in recent
years.” He made the duke less of a clown
and more of a human father with a natural
jealousy of his daughter’s honor than pre-
vious exponents.
The Palette
Oarl Hampel, the Victorian painter,
held a show recently in Bond-street which
sold better than many such shows have
in Melbourne lately. The Queen was a pur-
chaser of one dose of Australian sunshine.
“Lao-dah”: In saying (B. 13/8/’3O) that
“there is not a solitary woman in the front
rank of Australian painters,” “F.S.” over-
looked the claims of the Victorian Clarice
Beckett. She is coming into recognition
slowly, largely because she paints fog, mist,
early-morning effects and twilights, there
being a local tendency to regard art either
as an aphrodisiac or an antidote to the
Melbourne climate. It is a pity that National
Gallery has not yet acquired any of her
works, though the fact is almost a recom-
mendation, considering the conventionality of
the bulk of the works Bernard Hall has
lately collected for the Australian section.
By purely realistic methods Miss Beckett has
penetrated deeper into the mysteries of the
Australian scene than most of her contem-
poraries, and in doing so has revealed new
truths —or, if you prefer it that way, new
beauties.
The Inky Way
The latest Bulletin serial to find stiff
covers is Vance Palmer’s “The Passage.”
It is to appear simultaneously in England
and America at the end of this month.
A new magazine with good promise is
“Oceania,” a scientific, but not too scientific,
journal that concerns itself with Australian,
New Guinea and Southern Islands natives
in general. Its editor is Professor Radcliffe
Brown, of Sydney Uni.
“It. Volt”: The serial story has arrived
on the air. For the convenience of “house-
wives and invalids” 3AR has started broad-
casting “The House of Storms,” by Hilda
Bridges, a Tasmanian writer now resident
in Melbourne. She is a sister of novelist Roy.
A gap in the Inky Way is being well filled
in by “Youth,” a monthly for boys and
girls. Plenty of color-plates, including pic-
tures of Australian flowers, fishes and so on,
and well-selected reading matter make it tip-
top value for the sixpence.
T. G. Mahood, who collapsed and died sud-
denly in Melbourne, was one of Australia’s
leading newspaper engineers. During his
long career in the “Argus” office he made
many reforms in the firm’s equipment, and
one of his inventions, the two-line linotype
knife, is in use in the United States.
“Australian Outlook Review,” in addition
to its rather clumsy title, is marred by some
shocking block-reproduction. Otherwise its
contents are good, and it offers a fairly wide
field for writers with a serious bent.
“Malachi”: In these days, when free-
lancing in Australia is over the fair-cow
fence, there seems an opening at the Aonach
Tailteann, which is to be held in Dublin
a year hence. What the A.T. resulted from
I do not know, though it is said to have
been inaugurated in honor of Queen Tailte,
and if you know who she is the drinks are
on me. However, the show, revived in 1924,
is held every four years, and bestows prizes
for poetry, drama, the novel, the short story,
“other and “the best work on the
patrician period.” Here again you can
search me. Being Irish, the quadrennial
affair, last held in 1928, is naturally set
down for 1931. Also, the publicity matter
forgets to state whether the candidates will
have to submit their stuff in Erse or Sas-
senach. Personally, I shall bung in my con-
tributions in Erse. I know nothing about
the language, but I am credibly informed
that no one in Ireland does either.
“C.A.8.”: .Country newspapers have been
hard hit by the bad times. The “Nimmita-
bel News” has gone out; the “Wagga
Express,” one of the oldest in the country
(it’s 72), has dropped from daily to weekly;
and another daily,- the “Cootamundra
Herald,” now publishes three times a week.
Many others are on their last legs.
Nettie Palmer, wife of novelist Vance,
has written a life of Justice Higgins, which
is to be published by Harrap’s. Graham
Wallas, Emeritus Professor of London Uni-
versity, has written a preface. Mrs. Palmer
is the late Judge’s niece.


Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. •. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji, Samoa
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
DECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
V 'll
' SCHUTE,
BELL & Clio.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
hfdh
Southern Business Men
Should Concentrate on
QUEENSLAND!
The Queen State has less unem-
ployment than any other State in
Australia, and it is confidently anti-
cipated that she will be the first one
to regain prosperity.
The spirit of optimism is amongst
her farmers, growers, and land
owners.
You cannot afford to ignore this
market, and the most profitable way
to sell goods in Queensland is to ad-
vertise them in Queensland’s Oldest,
Biggest, and Finest Newspaper—
Che Brisbane Courier
the Paper with the Largest Circulation.
Published by :
THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER CO., LTD ,
Queen-street, Brisbane. ’Phone 82991.
Sydney Representative : Robert D. Fisher
74 Pitt-street. ’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative. L. S. Marks,
The Argus Building, Elizabeth and Latrobe
streets. ’Phone F 3906.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 xYustralia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
I \ » t>£VJ
BRIDGING ALL SEAS
0-
LINKING CONTINENTS
U.S.A., CANADA, EUROPE,
via the South Seas
Hawaii Fiji Tahiti —
Raratonga—New Zealand
Through Bookings with
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE.
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co.—Brisbane —Perth
fdhfd
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN
AND UNION ROYAL MAIL LINES
Hjcg.
r
Sunny South Sens
Enchanting Trip to PAPUA via BRIS-
BANE, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS, and
the glorious WHITSUNDAY PASSAGE
inside the renowned Great Barrier Reef.
Smooth Water Sandy Beaches—T ropi c a 1
Scenery—Volcanic and Coral Islands—Quaint
Native Villages and Customs—Rest, Change
and Variety.
THREE WEEKS’ TOUR.
Fare, £4O to £44, Return.
Apply for Pamphlet No. 52/P to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and
ADELAIDE.
Read “B.P. Magazine,” richly
illustrated in color.
1/- Copy, All Newsagents.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
iSh
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
688 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances'made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED, CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP - £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon. TAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: «7. R. DRYHVRST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane. Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS. —Inspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Huddart ParkerLiai'
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
S team ship s
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between. Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge anest, Sydney.
A pictorial
guide to
America
FASCINATINC this new booklet
illustrated with latest pictures of
San Francisco, New York, Yosemite,
Grand Canyon, Niagara Falls and
other famous places of the United
States. It tells how easy it is to
travel across America when you go
back home. Free to those planning
trips to England. Call or write for
your copy.
® OCEANIC STEAMStf IPCOt
NATSON LINE
Dept, MlB, 12 Bridge Street,
Sydney. Tele.: B 7981.
(uticuraSoap
MEDICINAL &TOILET
SOOTHING, HEALING
and CLEANSING
You cleanse your skin regularly—
why not protect it as you cleanse
it? CUTICURA SOAP contains
the medicinal, antiseptic and heal-
ing qualities which are inherent in
Cuticura. It is fragrant and it is
soothing.
By using CUTICURA SOAP with
CUTICURA OINTMENT you will
keep your scalp in healthy con-
dition, and be free from dandruff.
Try this combination today!
(B^ra
PURITY
Soap Is., Ointment
Is. and 2s.
Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address :
"R. Towns & Co..
Sydney, N. S.W."
XTbe
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion’' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to —
P.O. BOX 1481. WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from —
AH Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.


m
m
tm
m
SE9SP
Mi
$$
• ?•
li ;'
pJSss®
| M ffl
ft®
?Mv.?
f«
;e
5 $&
♦ ♦ ♦
Qreen Fodders
Early perhaps to talk of green fodders for summer
use, but not too early to remind farmers of the
great bulk of feed influenced by an application of
SULPHATE OF AMMONIA.
Sulphate of Ammonia can be applied in combina-
tion with superphosphate in the proportions of
one of the former to two of the latter, or can be
used as a separate dressing at the rate of at least
1 cwt. per acre when the crop has made a little
headway. The result will mean more fodder and
a higher butter-fat yield per acre, particularly at
the present low price of Sulphate of Ammonia.
Literature and advice from
NITROGEN FERTILISERS PTY. LTD.
360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
AN ADJUSTABLE GUARD
FOR BLADE RAZORS
l
The spring clip razor guard—fitted in no time and adjustable for -fin, fin. or Jin.
blades. PRICE 2/9 each.
PLUM RAZORS—Post free.
Neatly packed in satin-lined single or double cases.
Black Vulcanite Handle, each 12/6
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle, each 15/6
Rea! Ivory Handle, each 21/-
7-day Sets—7 Razors in Case—Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
Each Razor ready set for use and kept in order for two years free.
Other Specialities—Post Free.
PLUM Strops, each, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
Strop Dressing, pey tube 1/3
Shaving Cream, Giant Size, tube, 2/-
Shaving Tablet, Round, each .. . 6d.
Witch Hazel, After-shave Liquid
Cream, bottle 2/-
Oil of Roses Hairdressing, bottle . 1/3
Crystallised Brilliantine, jar .... 1/3
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN"
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
RAYOVAC
Flashlights « Batteries « Radio Tubes
E
pAYO-VAC
Buy the Best
Less Often
There is no economy in
buying inexpensive and
badly made Electric
Torches and Batteries.
The less you pay the
oftener you purchase
the batteries.
RAY-O-VAC Flashlights
and Batteries are made
by one of the oldest
makers of these goods.
They are the best ob-
tainable.
New Rotomatic Switch
absolutely prevents the
light ever being rurned
on accidentally. Ray-o-
VAC is the only flashlight
madewith the ROTO-
MATIC Switch
Your nearest distributor
will gladly show you the
complete line.
Manufacturer's Representative
W. C. SCHWAB
Box 1821, G.P.0.,
Melbourne, Viet.
FRENCH BATTERY CO.
~ CHICAGO U.S.A. ~
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Song of the Flame,” at the State, presents
the best color photography that has been
seen in Sydney. Previous color productions
have been spoiled by blaring reds and blues
and their derivatives, piled in undefined
masses without regard to anything but the
necessity for getting riotous effects. This
show features some of the unearthly hues of
its predecessors, but the figures on which
they are thrown are better focussed and the
backgrounds—scenes in Imperial Russia—
are appropriately bizarre.
“The Song” is the Russian Marseillaise,
and it was written by “The Flame,” a
peasant beauty who marches to it with the
other revolutionaries. She is played by
Bernice Claire, a new star who is virtually
without twang and is about 80 per cent, of
the cast. The plot is a mixture of travel-
gazette, comic opera and historical drama
and is devoid of either continuity or sense.
At one moment wholesale executions by
faring parties are being shown, and the next
the heroine is singing*a duet with her lover
in a glade. The ballets (by Jack Haskell,
Avho used to produce for the J.C.W. Co.)
are works of art, and there are several other
features, any one of which is worth sit-
ting the entertainment through for its sepa-
rate sake. Notably Janina Smolinska as
-the Dancer,” and Noah Beery as Kon-
stantin the Commissar. “The Song” is pre-
ceded by “Frolicking Fish,” a fascinating
sub-aqueous fairy-tale which out-Mickies
the Mouse.
* * *
Paramount’s “Young Man of Manhattan,”
which opened in Sydney at the Capitol, is a
newspaper talkie. The fact that the writers
bang out their masterpieces on typewriters
while drinking, arguing and flirting may help
to explain New York’s yellow press. Toby
McKean (Norman Foster) is a sporting
expert between binges. He meets the
gossip-writer, Ann Vaughn (winsomely
played by Claudette Colbert), at a fight, and
they marry in haste. She makes more
money than he does (how, with his habits,
he makes any is a mystery), and repen-
tance sets in. Matters are approaching a
crisis when she drinks some of his whisky,
and goes blind. This pulls him together. He
shuts himself up with a bottle of whisky,
and in a few days types a novel for which
a publisher pays 1000 dollars advance on
royalties. Simultaneously Ann recovers, and
they are reconciled.
Even if one is able to swallow the philan-
thropist-publisher who makes a four times
bigger advance than his competitors, and
doesn’t ask the fledgling novelist to wait till
publication day for his money, it is hard
to see anything but disaster ahead for Toby
and Ann. He is a confirmed drunkard, and his
inseparable friend Shorty Ross (played by
that sound comedian Charles Ruggles) is
only witty on the subject of booze. The
action is fast, most of the dialogue is bright,
and the photography, as in all Paramount’s
recent movies, is magnificent.
* # #
Most British International films have been
badly cast. It is not that Elstree lacks the
material. Britain is probably as rich in
quaint types that can go before the camera
without make-up as America, and there was
never any lack of well-dressed and beautiful
women and personable men when the legiti-
mate theatre was in flower. Yet British
pictures have shown the world a succession
of dowdy girls and effeminate youths in star
parts; and now, as a crowning absurdity,
Anna May Wong is put forward as an
enslaver of Caucasian men.
In “The Flame of Love,” which started
its Australian career at Sydney Hay market,
the Chinese actress whom the censors won’t
let white actors kiss is a dancer in pre-war
Russia. She loves a handsome young officer.
Unfortunately the Grand Duke takes a fancy
to her. The lover, torn between jealousy
and ambition, plays a miserably complais-
ant part, and she is only saved from what
bellodrama used to know as “a fate worse
than death itself” by her brother, who plugs
the duke and is condemned to be shot. She
yields to the duke to save her brother, and,
while the lover is congratulating her, poisons
herself.
There is no reason why any normal white
man should be allured by Miss Wong. Her
voice and figure are fairly attractive judged
by European standards, but her face is as
Mongolian as her wooden and lugubrious
manner. To add to the unreality of the
film she and the women about the Court are
dressed 15 years ahead of the fashions. The
men are all convincing, and the incisive and
cultivated dialogue is a big improvement
on that of most U.S.A. talkies.
* * ¥
“So This Is London,” at Melbourne Plaza,
is a diffused version of the stage play intro-
duced here in 1925 by Thurston Hall.
Instead of three concentrated acts, the
American family, of which Will Rogers is
the English-hating father, is depicted mak-
ing the voyage to England, viewing London
through its prejudices and finally repairing
to the country house of Lady Amy Ducks-
worth, where there is a dinner party which
is grossly caricatured, and a shooting party
which is only mildly amusing. The play is
supposed to represent a gesture of inter-
national friendship, but whereas the Ameri-;
can characters are depicted as agreeable, if
uncouth, people, the producers could not resist
the temptation to cater for local tastes by
making some of the English the usual stock
music-hall libels. Lord Percy Worthing has
walrus moustaches, talks like a person suffer-
ing from brain lesions and behaves pre-
posterously towards his womenfolk. The
only occasion when the American is allowed
to behave in the same wayi is when
the father and mother deliberately play
the fool at dinner in order to prevent
an alliance between their son and Elinor
Worthing; the producers didn’t even bother
to find an English actress to take
the part of Elinor, but gave it to the usual
pretty and insipid American heroine. A
good enough film farce, but a poor vehicle
for the talent of Will Rogers.


■ m
.1*
m
- M>
■
m
■ f
sfcS-
<o^'
r\£
\VO^
cC^° V <i\^ cS VvO^
**
<1 wv#-
c.<\\* vv <■»
hfdh
NOW
19
FOR
FIVE
new shaped holes allow
17°f 0 extra weight • heavier
two-edged blades that can
never pull or drag • buy
PRGBAK BLADES
MADE AND GUARANTEED BY THE AUTOSTROP SAFETY RAZOR CO., LTD., 197-207, CITY ROAD,
LONDON, ENG.
Managing Agents for Australia: PHIPSON & COMPANY, 181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
THAT RHEUMATISM
RID YOURSELF OF THE TERRIBLE
PAIN THIS SIMPLE, EASY WAY
Rubbing does not always ease pain. Doctors will tell yon
that massage or rubbing, wrongly applied, may prove seriously
harmful. How many thousands of sufferers from swollen,
painful joints and aching muscles know only too well the
waste of time and money spent in rubbing ointments into the
skin ? You must realise that chronic pains in the back, limbs
or joints are caused by poisons in the blood which irritate the
nerves. You might just as well polish the stove to cure a
smoky chimney as to rub the outside of the body to cure a
deep-seated, internal blood trouble which starts at the kidneys.
HOW TO END YOUR PAIN
QUICKLY AND FOR EVER
Go to your chemist —ask for a supply of De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills. You can ask him how good the prescription
is from which this remedy is made. He knows and can advise
you. Take two De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills at night,
one before mealtimes. In twenty-four hours you will see and
know they are doing you good, and if you will only persevere
you will obtain complete relief. s Whilst De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills will, from the very first dose, help you, it is only
fair to us that you should give them a REGULAR day-by-day
trial. For over forty years they have been curing chronic
sufferers, many bed-ridden, many in agony for years. There
is no secret about this successful remedy, but there is a
definite guarantee. These two facts, which have made De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills famous the world over, will prevent
you accepting any substitute.
cx \\ A\\ 111 111/ I.il/Z////J^/'S/Atf>s>^
DcWITTI
/me
X
m
mm
i)
An Honest
and Reliable Remedy
There is. no mystery about De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills—it is a
straightforward remedy which your
chemist can. honestly recommend to you.
Purchase from him a 3/6 bottle —take the
pills according to the instructions. Per-
severe and you- will be cured to stay cured.
Do not be put off with any substitute.
If you want health, ask for and see you
get De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills
—the remedy with the guarantee.
FOLLOW THE EXAMPLE OF
THIS ONE-TIME SUFFERER
Writing from 132, Layton Street,
Camperdown, N.S. IV., Mrs. Newman
says: —“ A friend gave me a sample of
De Witt’s Pills and they did my Rheu-
matism so much good that I got a full-
size bottle from the chemist which
proved sufficient to banish the pain that
had tortured me for many years. ”
DeWITT’S PILLS
are invaluable in all cases of
RHEUMATISM
WEAK KIDNEYS
JOINT PAINS
LUMBAGO
SCIATICA
BACKACHE
CYSTITIS
GRAVEL
STONE
NEURITIS
and all
Kidney and Bladder Troubles


Legal Notice.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1101 of 1930.
BETWEEN ELIZABETH ANN THOMAS (formerly
Elizabeth Ann Humphreys) Petitioner
And RICHARD JOHN THOMAS Respondent.
To RICHARD JOHN THOMAS late of Narrabri
and Boggabri.
Take notice that the said Elizabeth Ann Thomas
has commenced a suit against you in this Honorable
Court and is applying for a dissolution of marriage
on the grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause and excuse And take
notice that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the twenty-eighth day of Novem-
ber 1930 and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further time
the petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
Dated this fourth day of September 1930.
For the Registrar,
C. V. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Equity.
A. K. SMITH, Solicitor for the Petitioner, Heber
Street, Moree; by his Sydney Agents, McLachlan,
Westgarth & Co., 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice,
To JANE LORYMERE.
NOTICE is hereby given to Jane Lorymere whose
last known address was Sixteenth-street Bowden
in the State of South Australia that a citation bear-
ing date the 10th day of October 1929 has issued
in the Supreme Court of South Australia citing you
to appear and answer the petition of George Lory-
mere of 21 West-street Brompton in the said State
Laborer praying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground of desertion for five years AND THAT if you
desire to be heard in opposition to. the claim for
such order you must within 35 days from the date
of this publication file an appearance in the office
of the Master of the Supreme Court of South Aus-
tralia otherwise an order may be made against
you in your absence.
F. B. MeBRYDE,
Deputy Master.
JOHN MEYRICK HAGUE, Scottish House, Waymouth
Street, Adelaide, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
ASSURED POSITIONS! BETTER MONEY!
4tt i
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and
enter a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to
send for our prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal
to the demand. NOW is the time to begin.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagti Street, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Following Maoriland horses has been an
unprofitable pursuit in Sydney this season.
At Canterbury Park on Saturday Night-
march failed to pace it with Holdfast in the
w.-f.-a. race; King March and Dunraven,
both regarded as Derby hopes, were beaten
“out of sight” in the Three-year-old Handi-
cap ; Goshawk and Hard Words were
downed in the first division of the Flying
Welter, and First Acre in the second division.
Paquito was the only invader to win, and his
performance was not exactly exhilarating.
He was favorite, at evens, for the September
Handicap, and it took him all his time to
beat Bosmina (7 to 1), a mare from New-
castle and only a moderate. Certainly the
Maoriland-bred Ring Boy (5 to 2) ran away
with the Campsie Handicap, but he is owned
and trained by a Sydney man, O’Rourke, and
has been a long time on this side.
When Goshawk ran a close second to
Adrian’s March in the A.J.C. Rous Handi-
cap last April, there was 261 b. between them.
The difference was only 121 b in the first
division of the Flying Welter, although Gos-
hawk had won since April and Adrian’s
March had not; moreover, Goshawk was at
twos on Saturday and Adrian’s March at
twenties. Yet the Sydney horse won bril-
liantly and the Maorilander was unplaced.
It was a six-furlong race and six furlongs
may be too short for Goshawk. Hard Words,
a three-year-old in Jamieson’s stable—he is
owned by F. Earl, a Maoriland K.C., and
ex-Priminister Coates—was a fair second.
Adrian’s March has 7st. 51b. in the Epsom,
but has J r et to succeed over the distance.
Lloldfast was at twos for the Canterbury
Stakes, the owner of High Disdain, who had
been galloping brilliantly during the week,
choosing to scratch h.is horse again. Fuji
San was second favorite at 5 to 2, Night-
march being at fours; there was little money
for the others. Holdfast led from start to
finish, and nothing ever looked like catching
him; also he put up a track record for six
furlongs—lmin. 121 sec. Fuji San was half
a length behind Gahan’s flier at the finish ;
Nightmarch was another length away, cut-
ting Cimabue out of third place. Yertoy
surprised most people by beating Luita and
Gay Ballerina at w.f.a.; but she wouldn’t
surprise this Page if she won the Epsom.
The only thing against this nice mare is her
party’s odd habit of alternating 11-furlong
with six-furlong races. She was third last
year. Holdfast is now in strong demand for
the Epsom, in which he has Bst. 71b., but
it is questionable whether he will see out a
fast mile.
In the - second division of the Flying
Welter, Citamon (6 to 4) and Credence (2
to 1) cleared right away from a big field
and fought out a thrilling finish, in which
Citamon prevailed by a short head. The time
was only half a second slower than Hold-
fast’s. Credence was a close second to Hold-
fast at Warwick Farm; Citamon was of no
use to Brazenface at Rosehill. This makes
one wonder how good Brazenface is; the
three-year-old son of Cistercian —Cool Lady
did not fulfil his engagement in the Canter-
bury Stakes.
Prominent among the unplaced lot behind
Citamon and Credence was Jeypore, who has
furnished into a fine-looking horse. This son
of Highfield (whose progeny are apt to
imprbve with age) has a Metrop. chance
with Bst. 21b.
Ring Boy, who had Bartle’s services on
this occasion, put up a sterling performance
in the Campsie Handicap with lOst. up,
though Garrula (12 to 1) and Lord Kenna-
quhair (10 to 1), second and third, got away
badly. He is in none of the big handicaps—
unfortunately, perhaps, for O’Rourke.
HARDLY WORTH MENTIONING.
GOLFER: “Have you any suggestions, boy?”
C ADDIE: “Well, only that yer ’ave a biff at yer own ball now; it’s just be’ind yer.”,
For Randwick on Saturday:—
Novice Handicap: Tregilla; next, Kilu-
mirri.
Tramway Handicap: High Disdain; next,
Tom Pinch or Brazenface.
Chelmsford Stakes: Phar Lap; next,
Nightmarch.
Spring Handicap; Crown Area; next,
First Acre or Sunflare.
Welter Handicap: Citamon; next, Gos-
hawk or First Acre.
$ * * $
Phar Lap’s defeat by Amounis at Warwick
Farm caused no great amount of surprise,
but the spectacle of Amounis being over-
thrown by Wise Force at Caulfield was a
staggerer. McGrath hurried the wonderful
old gelding across to Melbourne to lift what
looked to be an easy £9OO. Glare having been
withdrawn, punters treated the Memsie Stakes
as a match' between Amounis and Waterline,
odds of 4 to 1 being laid on the Sydney
horse and 9 to 2 offered against the “S. A.
Rawdon” prad. Who could conceive that
Wise Force would vanquish both of them?
The Queensland-owned stallion, with Bst.
41b., was unable to get nearer than third in
the Newmarket Handicap, which Greenline
captured under the crushing burden of
lOst. 21b. after going down to Amounis in
the Futurity Stakes. Moreover, Wise Force
received a sound drubbing from Waterline in
the Underwood Stakes at Williamstown on
23.
First Legion and Speargirl jumped off
in front, but their riders were indisposed to
make the pace. Jones had allowed Amounis
to drop in behind them; meanwhile Demp-
sey let Wise Force slip along at his ease to
the front. Five furlongs from home Jones
took a feeler and reckoned that he had the
measure of Wise Force, whom he followed
into the straight at a leisurely gait. How-
ever, Dempsey had hoarded up'the strength
of Wise Force to withstand a late chal-
lenge. Half a furlong from the post, Jones
was astounded to find Amounis being held
at bay. He drew the whip with frantic
suddenness ; but it was too late, the 20-to-l
chance gaining a half-head verdict.
While Wise F'orce stands revealed as a
better middle-distance galloper than people
suspected, it was a fluke that he beat
Amounis. The outcome restores Dempsey to
fame as a jockey. He had predicted that
Wise Force would turn the tables on Water-
line and might, indeed, make it warm for
the Sydney champion, but was laughed to
scorn. Dempsey does not shine in big fields
of poor handicap horses, but he has no peer
where judgment of pace is concerned and a
gentle hand is needed on the rein. Jim
Accola, the trainer, intends to reserve Wise
Force for the Tooralc Handicap and Cantala
Stakes. Waterline was a poor third. Mak-
ing due allowance for the race being falsely
run, his A.J.C. Metropolitan prospects look
less alluring than they did a week before.
Waterline leaves for Randwick on Saturday,
when The Doctor’s Orders also will be
dispatched from Melbourne.
Divisions of the Doona Trial at Caulfield
were landed by Rigadoon and Dominant.
Rigadqon, trained by D. J. Price for V.R.C.
committeeman E. Manifold, is a handsome
three-year-old colt by Silverado —Sundance
who will have to be seriously reckoned with
in the cups, Dominant was not entered for
the cups, but is in the Cantala Stakes at
7st. 101 b. He was backed from 7 to 4 to
odds on, and won running away. He belongs
to the syndicate of four who gave 6750 guineas
for him as a yearling; Cecil Godby, who
scored at Aspendale on August 30 with his
Derby aspirant, Santorb, trains the high-
priced one. The luck of Godby has changed
for the better, but Santorb’s failure in the
V.A.T.C. Warriston Welter, won by Silver
Billy (12 to 1), one of Biggins’s, reduces his
chance of gaining classic honors. Silver
Billy is by Phar Lap’s sire, Night Raid, out
of Wise Gin.
Cragford (11 to 2), by taking the Heather-
lie Handicap, registered his third successive
victory, and must increase in favor for the
Caulfield Cup. Hymettus, Murmur, Luck-
now and Wynette each landed the Heather-
lie Handicap and Caulfield Cup in the same
season. Cragford is by Eastern Monarch —
Cena. Truckett did not produce Glare
after accepting for him in the Memsie Stakes.
There is a good deal of mystery concerning
the condition of this gelding, and no one
seems to know whether he will be sent to
Sydney. Mollison lias had minor ailments,
but looked all right while at walking exer-
cise in the Caulfield birdcage and probably
will take on the trip to Randwick.
* * * *
For Moonee Valley on Saturday:—
Budgeree Handicap: Shadow King; next,
El Rey..
Moonee Steeple: Adit; next, Good
Whisky.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
State featherweight champion Archie
Hughes dropped a points’ decision to Young
Ilalliday at the end of 15 rounds at Sydney
Stadium, after a close and interesting scrap.
Hughes carried the heavier wallop. Halli-
day looked done in the tenth, but clapped on
the pace over the concluding rounds. Weights
were equal at 9.2^.
* * * *
Stripped of the buffoonery peculiar to
wrestling bouts, the set-to between Joe
Steelier (16st. 41b.) and Strangler Lewis
(list. 101 b.) was a scientific affair. After
eight rounds of methodical applications of
holds and counter-holds, the referee had a
problem to solve, for neither had gained a
fall. lie declared for the lighter man on
points.
Footbrawl
Saturday’s Vic. League games settled the
question of which teams will constitute the
“final four,” unless something unusual
happens next Saturday. A crowd of 32,000
squeezed into Victoria Park to watch Carlton
and Collingwood battle for the leadership,
with the double chance for the pennant. A
fast, bright game ended with Collingwood
winners by 106 to S 3 ; that leaves the teams
level, but Collingwood has a. better percent-
age. Unless Carlton puts up a pile of points
against Footscray next match—Collingwood
simultaneously encounters Essendon —its
chance is gone, Carlton marked and kicked
superbly, but Collingwood’s concerted play
and clever passing were too much for them.
Scott umpired a difficult game most judi-
ciously. Another 30,000 crowd watched Rio
niond defeat Melbourne on the M. C. Ground,
by 86 to 62. Richmond had to win or go out,
and splendid high-marking gained the day.
Otherwise play was scrambling and needlessly
willing. The defeat of Melbourne would have
spelt disaster but that Geelong crashed to
Footscray, with 81 points to 98, while Essen-
don succumbed to St. Kilda—s3 points to St.
K.’s 90. That leaves Collingwood, Carlton,
Richmond and Melbourne in the four, in that
order, with but slight chance of its being
altered. Hawthorn beat North Melbourne, 66
to 51, and Fitzroy downed South Melbourne
by 109 to 92. These two teams are being
built up and should do better next year.
* * * *
The Rugby League competitions in Syd-
ney on Saturday were accompanied by
another outbreak of rough play, several men
being sent off by the referees in different
matches. Western Suburbs, though deprived
of their hooker, Lindfield, from this cause in
the first few minutes, rallied stoutly to beat
Newtown on the latter’s ground by 22-10
(4 tries and 5 goals, including one from the
field by McMillan, to 2 tries and two goals).
The win practically assures West of the
minor premiership. St. George provided the
surprise of the day by beating the premiers,
South Sydney, 11-3, at Earl Park, the Illa-
warra men outplaying the opposition in all
departments. Balmain beat North Sydney
28-10 at Wentworth Park in a straggling
game. Eastern Suburbs Bradmanned the
unhappy .University at the Show Ground,
43-18.
# * * *
The British Rugby side won a splendid
game from an Australian XV in Brisbane
by 29 to 14, or 5 tries, 4 of which were con-
verted, and two penalty goals to 3 tries, one
converted, and a penalty goal. The atten-
dance was 17,000, a big crowd for Bris-
bane football, and it got its money’s worth.
Up to half-time, when scores were 14-8 in
the Britons’ favor, including two penalty
goals, the play was even. In the second half,
the home side hg.d wilted under the perfect
combination of the tourists. Spong combined
magnificently with Murray at centre three-
quarter, while Ivor Jones played fine footer
in the visiting forwards, in addition to place-
kicking with deadly accuracy. Bonis, the
big Queenslander, was one of the best for-
wards on the ground. His compatriot Brown,
at centre, also played a dashing game.
(Continued on next page.)
A CORRECTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The youth of Australia really ought to be made
to take more interest in their country’s affairs and
its public persons.” —Sir Otto Niemeyer.
What’s this he says? Why, night on night
we’d wait
Upon the wireless for the thrills and
throbs
Of Test match scores, when Bradman pasted
Tate
Or Grimmett put the kibosh upon Hobbs,
Regardless that it might have made us late
(And often did) next morning on our jobs.
No interest in public persons ? What!
Only a visitor could talk such rot.
What does he really know of us, who thinks
He knows so much? I’m game to bet a
jim
He never followed Kirkwood round the links
Or watched our one and only Charlton
swim;
And, when it comes to football, why, there’s
Chinks,
As like as not, that could enlighten him
Who hadn’t even time to join the throng
That cheered the deeds of Lawton and of
Spong.
No interest he reckons that we take
In current topics, we Australian youth,
In history and the men who history make —
A palpable distortion of the truth.
There’s lots could tell him Lindrum’s highest
break
And Bobby Pearce’s fastest time, forsooth!
And who the blighters were who dashed,
last June,
Our hopes in Crawford and our faith in
Moon.
No interest in men and things that count!
I’ll give him Phar Lap’s form at half
a glance.
Gosh! but it makes a fellow’s dander mount,
Such an unwarrantable utterance.
How should he know, though, when the only
fount
Whereat he drinks is that of high finance?
So long, Sir Otto. Nay, no need for thanks,
There’s lots of things you never learn in
banks.
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


Bert : How do you uke My new bus?’
g»ert: mot bad, e>ut i think vour
OLD OKE WAS A BETTER
CAR?
Bert *. “Oh ! wwy ? *
<*er-t'.''\in/ell;this one hns ko
Mirror ,"
Footbrawl
“Gate”: In spite of the fine attendances
at the two first matches in Sydney, totalling
over 60,000, the N.S.W. Rugby Union, which
is financing the Australian end of the British
team’s tour, is gloomily contemplating a
deficit, for Maoriland takes 50 per cent, of
the net gates. The Maorilanders financed the
tour up to the day the team left Well-
ington for Australia; but they have made
£30,000 profit. M.L. has already promised
to reconsider the question of reducing its
cut. It might go further and waive its
claim to any share of the Australian gates.
❖ * * ;Jc
“Cash Amateur”: Some individual with
more sympathy with the out-df-works than
knowledge of the weird laws of amateurism
has suggested that, since many Rugby
Union and League footballers are jobless,
these might be helped by a benefit match
between teams chosen from both bodies, one
half of the match to be played under the
amateur code and the other under that of
the League. Unhappily, any Union player
competing against professional player’s or
taking part in a game wherein the teams are
less than 15 a side automatically becomes
a professional, provided the game be one
in which gate money is taken. The Union
might permit the match and reinstate its
players afterwards, but such a procedure
would be too much for unions beyond Aus-
tralia to stomach.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Hooker”: In its anxiety to give the visit-
ing Maoriland League team a good spin, the
N.S.W. Rugby League has let its season get
out of control. As matters stand, the com-
petitions cannot be finished until the end
of September, and even the first grade may
run a week or so over into October. As
the Cricket Association starts its official
season on September 27, the league is likely
to be shooed off several of its grounds. Mel-
bourne footbrawl and cricket are also at
loggerheads for the same reason, but the
Sydney body lias one advantage that its
Yarraside brother lacks. It controls Sydney
Sports Ground, a fairly decent ai-ena, on
which no cricket is played, and will pro-
bably end its season thereon.
The Fifteen
A South of England team led by Chap-
man and including four Test players drew
with the Australians at Folkestone at the
week-end. South closed their innings with
8 down for 403, the outstanding feature
being wicketkeeper Ames’s contribution of
121, which should cause the Test selectors who
preferred Duckworth some heartburnings.
Wall, bowling in great form, and a’Beckett
took 3 wickets each. The Australians had
lost 9 for 345, which included two dashing
innings of 76 and 78 by Ponsford and Jack-
son, while Bradman, with 63, passed the
3000 runs mark for the season, the first Aus-
tralian to do so. Another surprising stand
by Hornibrook (43) and Wall (40 n. 0.)
saved the day and brought the tourists’ total
to 432. Allom bowled well, taking 4 for
94. The home side lost Ames in the second
innings for 46.
* * * *
The 31st match of the Australians against
Sussex at Brighton ended in a draw, but
opened with a decided thrill. The Hove
wicket is one of the fastest pitches in Eng-
land, and after some weeks’ experience of
dead wickets most of the batsmen found
Tate on his home gi’ound unplayable.
Seven were out for 79, but Kippax, batting
like a champion, stayed the rot. Grimmett
(38), Hurwood (61) and Hornibrook (59
n. 0.) turned rout into countei’-attack, Kippax
going for 158, with the total at 367. Tate,
who had 6 for 22 at one time, ended with
6 for 82. Sussex scored 269 in their fii’st
try, Parker (84) and Cook (67 n. 0.) getting
most of the runs, while Hornibrook took 5
wickets for 51, this bringing liis tally of
wickets for the tour to 89. Kippax again
reached three figures, the innings being closed
when he had scored 102, with 9 wickets
down for 233. Tate again bowled well with
3 for 39. With less than two hours to go
Sussex were 93 for one wicket by Hornibrook
when the match ended.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: Kippax’s double century
against Sussex was the first double of the
tour, and evoked unstinted praise from
such critics as Ranji and Bosanquet, who
witnessed the match. Indeed, the man who
gave his name to the “Bosie” bowling he
invented has dubbed the Waverley batsman
the best in the world on good and bad
wickets. Kjppax has been overshadowed by
Bradman, but his scores in the Tests are
consistency itself. They run: 64 n. 0., 23,
83, 3, 77, 51, 28. At the end of the Sussex
match he had supplanted Ponsford for third
place in the aggregate with 1388 runs. Only
three other Australians have scored two cen-
turies in a match in England: Trumper,
Bardsley and Macartney.
«*g j|; j|j %
“Narq”: The British press is showing a
tendency to gibe at Bradman, who, as Aus-
tralia knew him at least, was the most
modest and inoffensive of players. Indivi-
duals like Lyon began it with criticisms of
the champion’s “affected” walk, and now
there is a general chorus of accusations.
He remains “aloof” from other members of
the team; also his relations with manager
Kelly are “far from cordial.” There can be no
doubt that Bradman’s reported infringement
of the agreement with the board has been
protested against by the manager, but that
the amiable youxxgster is personally giving
his mates of the team the cold shoulder and
the glassy eye is too improbable.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot” : Our Davis Cup team is re-
turning in two sections, possibly with the
idea of tempering the wind of criticism by
an unobtrusive ari-ival. Crawfoi’d and Moon
are the first for it, the pair reaching Mel-
bourne on September 19. A fortnight later
Jim Willard and Hopman blow in. The
proposed American visit fell through, the
team making its last appearance in Berlin
in the German championships with the cus-
tomary non-success.
sfs ajs
“Top Spin”: Betty Nutliall has cap-
tured the American National singles for
women. As the young person also took the
doubles in partnership with Helen Marlowe,
of Califorixia, she lias fairly clinched her
claim to have at last arrived at the forefront
of British tennis. True, she had not to meet
Helen Wills that was, but she outed all the
rest of the front-rank American players,
including Helen Jacobs, ranked as second to
the Wills only.
* * sk *
“Cash Amateur” : Suzanne Lenglen is said
to be considering a return to amateur tennis,
and is expected to apply for whitewashing
shortly. The lady, who dearly loves the
limelight, has evidently not found enough
of it in her sports-costumes shop in Paris, and
is longing for the plaudits of the multitude
again. That may be all right if she can
pick up her old form of five years ago. If
she cannot, she will find, as other athletic
heroes have done, that the multitude is more
apt to heave bottles than bravos at a has-
been who has returned to the arena without
justification.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Kingston” : The women’s Australian golf
championships in Melbourne provided a
triumph for the Victorian player, Susie Tol-
hurst, who already holds the State title.
She started off by winning the foursomes in
partnership with Mrs. Gatehouse, the pair
returning a card of 175 for the 36 holes of
stroke play, an average of just under 5
per hole, and mighty good going for associate
golf. In the singles event Miss Tolhurst had
a great battle with Mrs. Alex. Russell, win-
ning a neck-and-neck finish one up on the
18 th.
:’c sj:
“Sandringham” : Though she was beaten in
the later rounds. Miss L. Bailey covered
herself with glory in the competition for
the women’s golf championship of Australia
at Melbourne by creating a new women’s
record for the event, and that on the Com-
monwealth’s course, one of the most trouble-
some in Australia. She finished with a card
of 80, with the brilliant Maorilander, Miss
O. Kay, three points worse off, and Miss S.
Tolhurst, Victoria’s amateur championette,
third, with 84. The record-maker is one of
the youngest players in the competition. She
recently Avon the Victorian girls’ champion-
ship.
# * * *
“Marino”: South Australia’s professional
golf championship was played for at Seaton
last week, and won, after a tie, by Fergus
McMahon. His opponent was A. H. Too-
good, who is professional at the Grange
club, while McMahon is employed as an
instructor by an Adelaide sports depot. The
final rounds over 36 holes saw each player
level with 397 against his name. In the
play-off, also over 36 holes, Toogood’s putt-
ing went to pieces and McMahon won by
9 strokes with' a card of 153. As this is
the third year in succession that McMahon
has taken the title, he retains the silver
pot which goes with it.
$ •!* -I- »!■
“Baffy”: There was a curious ending to
the match for the War Service Cup, a
trophy for members of the Australian golf
club who served with the Australian or
British forces in the war. It was played on
the club course at Kensington (N.S.W.) as
an 18-hole bogey competition, and five
competitors finished level with 1 up. The
first pair arrived early, and the authorities
decided on a play-off. As the others came
rolling in the tension grew, and the resources
of the 19th were tested to their utmost by
the time the fifth man arrived. It is under
stood that there will be a play-off sooner or
later, and that’s where the matter stands.
* * * *
There was some surprise at the news
that the Australian club had appointed W.
Mackenzie, of Avondale club, professional
in place of Fred Popplewell, gone to the
Royal Sydney. Arthur Spence, once of Syd-
ney, but now with the Yarra Yarra in
Melbourne, was the popular pick, but was
outstayed by the long-priced candidate. A
Scot who saw much service in France, Mac-
kenzie learnt his “gowf” at Castle Craig,
near Inverness, under the eye of the famous
James McAndrew. He was with the Goul-
burn (N.S.W.) club before going to Avondale.
* * # *
“Putter”: Sydney saw its first miniature
golf green opened at the State Theatre the
other day. The area of the course, which is
carpeted with heavy green felt, is about 30
yards square. It is really a putting course
of 18 holes, but these are trickily laid out, and
even experienced golfers are well tested by
them. Perhaps the most ingenious is the
ninth, which carries a bunker in the shape
of a “castle” with four doors. Two of these
let the ball through, but the others contemp-
tuously return it to the player. Sand and
water' bunkers are also in evidence, one of
these last spanned by a miniature Harbor
Bridge.
sjs sj:
“Divot Digger”: In a 36 par handicap
match at Killara (N.S.W.), Miss le Fevre,
off the 31-mark, finished 17 up ! In another
handicap event, but this time against Bogey,
the card returned showed her 13 up on the
Colonel. It is safe to say that the hanrii-
capper will bring this player back a bit
when the next competition is due.
:Js ❖ ❖ *
“Hotham”: The Open championship meet-
ing began in Melbourne this week on the
Metropolitan club's course at Oakleigh with a
36-hole competition for professionals. The
first 16 amateurs in the Open will play off
for the amateur title, the first 16 profes-
sionals in the same event similarly qualify-
ing for their championship. Both finals are
due on September 18.
Car and Cycle
“C. Bumpkin” : C. R. Dickason, of Austin
Motors, Melbourne, must surely hold the
record for breaking records in a single year.
Since January he has smashed the Sydney-
to-Melbourne record for cars under 2000-
c.c. and the Sydney to Melbourne open
record sealed in top gear. The first was then
beaten by somebody else, so Dickason broke
it again. In March he got third in the Grand
Prix at Cowes, first in A class and won
the sealed handicap. In May he won the
championship of the Ballarat dirt track
against all-comers. In June he carried off
the Mount Tarrengower hill climb in the AA
class.
* *
“Swan”: Westralia’s annual motor-cycle
and -car championships held on the dried-
out bed of Lake Perkolili proved somewhat
disappointing. The highest speed attained
was 100 m.p.h. by J. Metcalfe on an A..T.S.
Good as this was, it was 7 m.p.h. behind
R. Duke’s record figures for the event made
last year. The best car speed was 93 m.p.h..
which is hardly worth x-ecording in view of
Norman Smith’s times on this and other
natural tracks. There doesn’t seem to have
been anything wrong with the surface of
the lake bed, either. Some day, with better
publicity, this fine natural speedway should
figure among the world’s best.
* :? * *
“Char-a-banc”: Melbourne is responsible
for a new note in Australian motoring—the
organisation of extensive tours covering the
greater part of Australia, including
places unknown to many of those taking
part in them. A typical expedition took
the form of a 6000-mile circuit, includ-
ing Centralia and the Northern Terri-
tory. The party of 12 left Melbourne in
July, and, going out by Adelaide, Alice
Springs and Darwin, came back through
Western Queensland and N.S.W., complet-
ing the long trip in 56 days, and covering
775 miles a week on the average. The
motor coach carrying the party was equipped
with wireless, so the travellers were kept in
touch with such vital matters as the final
Test at the Oval. The Victorians were par-
ticularly interested in the curious customs
of the aborigines encountei*ed. especially
those inhabiting Darlinghurst (N.S.W.).
* $ * *
“Rat Trap”: The Goulburn-to-Sydney
road race has brought an entry of 136, the
professional element including such outstand-
ing riders as Opperman and Lamb, to say
nothing of another brilliant Victorian in O.
Nicholson. Ken Ross, who beat Lamb
from scratch in the race of 1928, is also an
entrant. Opperman and Lamb are on scratch,
and as the distance, formerly 131 miles, has
been extended to permit a finish on Canter-
bury racecourse, the handicaps of the front-
markers have been extended. This will be
the first time the two scratch men have met
in N.S,W. on level terms in the big road
race, and the battle between the pair and the
long-markers should result in Don Kirk-
ham’s long-standing record of 6hr. 19min.
31sec., made in 1911, being lowei'ed, the extra
mileage on this occasion being, of course,
taken into account.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The Warrnambool-Melbourne
road race, Australia’s oldest cycle road event,
will be run off on October 4. The spin for
amateurs over the last 100 miles of the
same course will be held concurrently, the
Warrnambool professionals having to pedal
an additional 65 miles. Entries close in all
the capital cities in Australia on September
17, and Dunlop-Perdriau, who are handling
the big event, intend to have the race broad-
cast. from start to finish. Last year’s winner
of the handicap was Victorian L. R. Munro.
who cut out the 165 miles in 7hr. 12min.
51sec.
Miscellaneous
“Backwoodsman”: If all goes well, the
Los Angeles Olympiad will see a mighty
gathering of the world’s bowlers. At a New
York luncheon to the Australian bowlers
on their way home from Britain, Harry
Furze, ex-president of the American Bowl-
ing Association, announced that plans were
being made for a tourney among players
from America, England, Australia, South
Africa, Ireland and Scotland. The pity of it
that such a gathering of bowlei’S should con-
gregate in a prohibition country !
sj« # :J:
“The Gaffer”: One result of the Canadian
Empire Games has been the formation of a
British Empire Sports Federation, consist-
ing of three representatives of each country
in the Empire. ,T. F. Wadmore, manager of
the English team in Canada, will be secre-
tary and treasurer, the headquarters of the
Federation being in London. The next meet-
ing is to be held in South Africa. M.L.
has asked for a 1928 date, but nothing has
been settled. Australia will probably get the
honor, if at all, about the middle of the
century. The Federation will apply to the
various Governments for financial and moral
support, and the Imperial Conference is to
be tapped on the question. As matters go
at present, it looks as if moral support will
win from the other sort, hands down.
#
“Decath”: A new world’s record went up
at Pittsburgh (U.S.A.) when Paul Jes-
sup, of Seattle, threw the discus 169 ft
Sgin., badly beating Eric Krentz’s prev-
ious best of 163 ft. Bfin. made in California
a year ago. Steve Anderson, also of Seattle,
equalled the world’s record of 14 2-ssec. for
the 120 hurdles, and now shares the honor
of title-holder with Eddie Thomson, of
Canada, and the Swede, Wennstrom. Aus-
tralasia’s best for this event is 15 l-ssec., by
the Maorilanders H. E. Wilson and R. W.
Lander.
s’: :J: *
“Si Anu”: The Asiatic is bursting into
Occidental sport in every direction, but the
limit was reached when a Chinese “toreador”
arrived recently in Barcelona and announced
himself as ready to slay the most savage
animal that could be brought against him.
He drew a vast crowd to the local bull-
ring, but shocked the hidalgos assembled by
taking the arena clad in a long silk sur-
tout, cloth shoes with large soles, and the
tight little waistcoat worn on the outside of
his costume in the manner of his fore-
fathers. When it was observed that he
earned a fan also, the temperature of the
audience rose. Further yells of execration
rent the air when he murdered liis first
bull in a fashion which, as one newspaper
critic remarked, savored more of the abattoirs
than of the bullring. When the second
animal chased him ignominiously off the stage
the meeting broke up in disorder.
* * * *
“Bamboo” : Though they failed to repeat
their English successes in America, the polo-
playing Ashtons found recompense in the
prices paid for their ponies when these were
auctioned off prior to tlie departure of the
brothers for Australia. Twenty-five wei'e put
up and brought the astonishing total of
£15,520. Even for America some of the
prices given were staggerers. Top price was
£2OOO for Isobel, a six-year-old bay mare,
which has been playing only two years. Hopa-
long, a nine-year-old gelding, brought £l6OO,
while Play On, a nine-year-old mare, com-
manded £l3OO. For Coaster, a big ten-year-
old gelding, £lO2O was paid. Australian
polo ponies are well known and highly appre-
ciated in America, but how highly! few
realised until this sale.
* # * *
“Tarrybreeks”: The terms of the yacht
race from Melbourne to Maoriland have
definitely been settled. The course will be
set for Nelson, F. J. Bennell, in his yacht the
Oimara, leaving Queenscliff on Boxing Day.
So far the only man to take up the gage
is F. Stacey, of Christchurch, who will have
to sail across the Tasman to Melbourne as a
preliminary to going back again.
* * *
“Pilton”: Queensland polo addicts are
bracing themselves for an out-and-out jam-
boree next season, for it has been decided to
play the inter-State championship for the
Australasian Gold Cup at Clifford Park, in
Toowoomba. The cup, which was presented
by a couple of Sydney enthusiasts some years
ago, drew a side from M.L. when the tourney
was staged for the first time in Sydney. It
has since been played for in Melbourne, but
this is Queensland’s first offence, so to speak.
The trophy is held by N.S.W.
“Golfing Hints” is the title of an attrac-
tive booklet issued by the Liverpool, London
and Globe Insurance Company. It contains
a brief description of the proper way to use
every club, with warnings what to avoid.
The hints are written by Robert Browning,
editor of “Golfing,” and a list of golfing
records is appended.


oa
TV con/re of Queen s /anc/s
' c//s//nguis/>ec/ Soda/ Life.
motel
CnDisn
BRISBANE
hfdh
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegram and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 85211—6 Lines.
fdh
fdhfd
Food
Nothing
so soothing
for Aged persons and Invalids
as Benger’s Food.
Doctors recommend a nightly
cup of Benger’s as the finest
thing to ensure a good night’s
rest.
Write for booklet to ;—BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Begd. Trade mark.
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Under*
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1920.
ToH.NL
George V
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagne
'3‘arlfislleidsieCfr*
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER.
Economy hint. How to make milk go
further. Chase the cow!
Cervantes in his galley lays the sword back in
its sheath
(Don John of Austria rides homeward with a wreath) ;
And he smiles, but not as Sultans smile, and settles
back the blade.
(But Don John of Austria rides home from the
Crusade.)
The stirring lines of Chesterton beat like
a march through the brain when Don Quixote
brought up the rear of the pageant at the
International Ball. For Don John is said
to have inspired the creation of Quixote, and,
even as the old Spanish writer, the present
war-weary world wants to lay the sword
back in its sheath. ’T any rate, hundreds
and hundreds of Sydneyites do, judging by
the record roll-up to the ball which is a
League of Nations effort. No fewer than
two hundred and fifty took part in the parade,
and there were a thousand who served and
waited till the tableaux passed, and then
resolved into a wildly cheering audience and
eager-to-dance lads and lasses. Sophie
Segaert got most of the spotlight as the
Spirit of International Progress flinging her
lightning fit the enemies of mankind: war,
slavery, disease and ignorance.
But this Letter liked Sculpture, represented
by a nice amiable lot of plaster casts—at
least, that’s what they looked like, their limbs
clothed in stage-white, their bodies in snowy
draperies. A dreamy-eyed St. Cecilia led a
band of musicians, and Pallas Athene strode
ahead of her lovers, Philosophy and Law.
Heralds and dancing girls preceded the
pageant, and, seeing the happy disregard of
period and boundaries therein, one had the
exalted feeling that space did not exist. Such
a spirit of neighborly love did the turnout
represent that one saw in the future the
citizens from the cantons of Switzerland and
the sampan dwellers of tlie Canton of China
living in amity with one another and all the
world, just occasionally launching gigantic
onslaughts against a common enemy of man,
such as tax-collectors. Roman togas, Swiss
embroideries, English roses, Scottish thistles,
all sat down in comfort together around the
Palais Royal, while within the vice-regal
pen Governor Game and his lady held court
among the nations, for a presentation of
Consuls and their wives was the evening’s
grand slam. Against this the debutantes’ flut-
tering curtsies might have been just so much
washing a-blow on the line.
Blues and green and primrose tones pat-
terned her Ex’s, floating chiffons, and Mrs.
Albert Littlejohn, who sponsored the debs,
besides organising the ball, was as alert as a
rapier in an ornamental scabbard of parch-
ment moire gemmy with diamente. Miss
Crowdy wore dove-like grey chiffons nearly
as thronged with decorations as the Ark with
inhabitants. David Stead, of the League of
Nations’ Union, was there with daughter
Katherine; the Earps presented the case for
Kosciusko; the Mayoral Marks came so late
they might have been at Forbes, but Mayoress
Hilda’s frock was the real Mackay. (And
that’s just a silly-season joke about the latest
row at the Town Hall,) Other spectacular
occurrences were the good-looking Chief
Justice Street couple, the grouping of the
flags of All Nations, and the hallelujah for
Belgium’s Consul-General Segaert and for
the wife of Greece’s Consul-General Chry-
santhopulos. His Ex, handed the lady a book
and the gentleman a box of cigars in recogni-
tion of the splendid work the two have done
for three years in producing the ball pageants.
Next year, by the way,‘ Mr. Segaert will
have to seek a new partner, for that
time the Chrysanthopulos family will be
settled in Greece.
Lots of costumes that didn’t get into the
prize-list at the Musicians’ pageant were a
lot jollier than many that did. For instance,
the girl who went as Hims —Ancient and
Modern, and had her front and back covered
with beaux of the old school and the new.
Frank Hutchens and Cyril Monk, the one
as a Chinese pirate, the other as a grandee,
raised a laugh by introducing themselves as
a Naval Orange and a Mandarin. Kubelik
and his Shadow were represented by two
men, one as Kubelik, the other as the faith-
ful Dawson with the invaluable' Strad. The
Scarecrow, who came like Joyce Kilner’s
tree, with a bird’s-nest in his hair, was
another joy, and so was Faunce Allman’s
black-cloaked and -hatted Flying Dutch-
man. Very likeable, too was the lady who
came as “In a Miniature.” She was dressed
pictorially in the Georgian style, and was a
reproduction of the lady pictured in the
locket into which she was deeply gazing.
Carmens, Aidas, Rio Ritas, Pompadours and
such-like were attractive but expected. Alice
Bryant’s satin frock, patterned with the
notes of “Rule Britannia,” was different.
(She called herself the Future of Music.)
. Lawrence Campbell, as the Abbe Liszt,
complete with warts, very justly received
the ovation of the night. There were two
Schuberts, and Bach appeared, to the great
delight of pianist Backhaus and his
gentle lady; for Bach, judging by the
Backhaus programmes, is the favorite
composer of the little Viennese. Over
a dish of coffee he talked to this Letter
of spring in Vienna, of the Ring Strasse
in the May twilight (as he will see it next
year), of the friendly people and ghosts that
walk its ways—talked til] these things seemed
the reality and David Jones’s ballroom, with
its whirling gaiety, the imagined. A girl
organ-grinder and Montgomery Stuart’s
coster frolicked down the avenue of judges.
Here Justice Gordon’s lady and Ben Fuller’s,
Charlie WestmaCott, Charlie Lloyd Jones
and Roland Foster gave the procession the
once-over, and divided the sheep from, the
goats. But really, after standing over an
hour queued up waiting for the pageant to
start, each of the condemned deserved a
bottle of champagne as a consolation prize.
Songbirds Rene Maxwell and Gladys
Verona and pianist Muriel Fletcher were
among the plain (as opposed to the fancy)
of plumage. Emily Marks led a triumphal
“Lilac Time” set. Mrs. C. L. Jones wore a
marvellous frock which was turquoise blue
to the knee, and then burgeoned into rosebud
pink, the pink and the blue being woven in
one piece. Anne Gordon in cherry taffetas
was another of the pretty creatures, and
this writer marks a note of admiration
against Mrs. Arthur Scrivener’s white georg-
ettes.
Vera Gee is a pleasant London girl who
has arrived in Sydney armed with a diploma
of the Mar-
garet Morris
School of
Dancing. This
system is
based on the
six fundamen-
tal positions
for movement
shown on
G r e ek and
Egyptian
vases, as clas-
sified by Ray-
mond Duncan,
brother to the
well-known
dancer Isa-
dora Duncan,
of a former
generat ion.
This is the
theory of it.
When you are
about to create
a dance, you first decide on your music. If
this has a warlike note, then your movements
are in keeping, and red will be introduced
into your background and costume. Thus
motion, music and color are blended in the
design. Miss Gee gives her first display in
Sydney at the Feminist Club on the 12th
September. May Moore made the picture.
The quick and the still filled the Educa-
tion Department’s galleries last Friday at
the Society of Artists’ Show. The quick,
politely clamorous and eager, moved from
canvas to canvas. The still glowed on the
walls in fruit and flower and china, and
moved on ghostly toe amid the friendly scene
of former delights. Among the ghosts this
Letter met George Lambert, quick and
debonair, flinging a slightly mocking fleer at
his own portrait; Lady Headley, who was
Barbara Baynton, tapping busily down the
room on high heels, a magnificent and too-
hot fur-coat flying; poet Boyce Bowden;
and The Bulletin’s old urbane chief, Wil-
liam Macleod, very intent, as always, on the
work of the just-beginning artists. Among
these Arthur Murch stood out with his sketch
for a memorial wall-painting for Riverview —
sharp and dramatic: two lean young soldiers,
rather gaunt of cheek, their eyes fixed on
the armored figure of St. Ignatius, the
school’s patron. It drew forth the hiss of
admiration even while Governor Philip Game
was declaring the show open. This he did
very modestly, so there was a very genuine
note in the “return thanks:” President Syd
Smith did the honors.
Males were terribly few —not a woman
had a whole one to herself; if these openings
are to retain their popularity the committee
will have to arrange things differently. The
crowd was the largest for the past three
years, but was mainly composed of young
women and debutantes. Among these three
pretty youngsters, Margaret Fairfax, Mar-
garet Honey and Margaret Vyner, walked
in company. Mrs. Wilfrid Fairfax bloomed
in soft grey colorings, and compared cata-
logues with Jean Cheriton, whose tailored
black suit won commendation. Near Adel-
aide Perry’s portraits of Mary Gilmore and
Basil Burdett stood Mrs. C. L. Jones, em-
bellished with one of the new dead-white hats
and a white gardenia. Mr. and Mrs. Back-
haus and a bevy of women friends gazed
raptly at Hans Heysen’s “Sun Parched
Land”; and Theo Cowan, in a dream hat of
black lace straw and tea-rose pink, was all
admiration for the work of sister-sculptor
Daphne Mayo. Mary Gilmore was present
once in the flesh and twice on the walls, a
pencil sketch of her interesting head by Ber-
nard O’Reilly, loved writer Dowell’s son,
being among the exhibits.
Sydney is nothing if not topical. Just
when our creditors on the other side of the
world have called the tune, the city staged
a Music Week, the president of the com-
mittee being Premier Bavin and the ener-
getic organising secretaries Robert McCall
and Marjorie Skill. Nightly the Conser-
vatorium and the Town Hall rocked on a
sea of sound, and listeners-in throbbed in
unison with string quartettes or went wing-
ing aloft in company with the children’s choirs.
One of the most-talked-of incidents of the
week was the “Hungarian Fantasia” of
Liszt. This is scored for eight pianos, and
made something like a noise. Five of the
pianists were men, and the ornamental play-
ers were Mrs. Betts-Vincent, Trixie Tange
and Dorothy Gibbs. Another event that
caused a stir was the school children’s con-
cert in the Town Hall. This was the ninth
annual event of its kind, and packed the
Town, Hall with parents and friends. The
Governor and Lady Game were among the
applauders; they were boy-scouted by Minis-
ter for Education Drummond, Director of
Education Ross Thomas, and, most im-
portant of all from the juvenile point of
view, Chief Inspector Harkness. The babies
from the Coogee Infants’ School playing their
musical games were adorable.
The Arts Club and the Queen Victoria
Club spread tea parties to the further glory
of the Old Masters, the vice-i - egals were
netted for several concerts, and the Backhaus
return tour coincided with the paeans.
Professor Le Gay Brereton and Will Law-
son both having birthdays last week, the
Fellowship of Australian Writers gathered
round to wish them many happy returns.
The Professor, who is the president, delight-
edly took home a copy of A. H. Chisholm’s
“Birds and Green Places”; while Will
Lawson,_ equally pleased, got away with
Mary Gilmore’s new “Wild Swan.” Songs
by Hilda Aitken and poems of Le Gay Brere-
ton and Will Lawson, interpreted by elocu-
tionist Montgomery Stuart, were the chief
entertainment of an evening otherwise filled
with high talk and hot coffee. Marjorie
Quinn was a serene and graceful mistress of
ceremonies, and Mary Gilmore proved ah
expert at mixing the human ingredients of
the shifting groups. Steele Rudd, the wat-
teau-like prettiness of Mrs. Brereton, and
the young poet Fitz Gerald were other points
of focus for the interested eye.
At last the Industrial Institution for the
Blind has followed the lead of nearly every
public institution in the city, and established
an ■ auxiliary committee to assist in keeping
the bank balance healthy. The cause is one
of the most appealing, and to Lady Game’s
invitation to Government House the other
morning, not only the usual good-worker, but
many women classified usually as the butter-
fly. species responded. No fewer than six
knights’ ladies are on the committee, which
includes Mrs. George Vivers, Mrs. John Bar-
low, Mrs. Tredwell, Admiral Evans’s wife,
Mrs. J. B. Stevenson and a gilt-edged freight.
Herewith Bessie Coleman, gifted member
of the Con.
staff and a
d a u g h ter of
Sydney press-
man Fred Cole-
man. Bessie,
with Dorothy
G i b b e s as
partner, speci-
alises in two-
piano w ork
and is popu-
lar with lis-
ten e r s-in as
well as with
audiences i n
the flesh. She
has appeared
several times
as pianist
with the Con.
Orchestra-
lias, in short,
achieved all
things that
could be expected of a musician of her experi-
ence. Among her teachers was the late
beloved Madame Charvin.
Old-time residents of Balmain joined in
congratulations to Mr. and Mrs. Buchanan
last week when they celebrated their golden
wedding. Before she was married, in the
spring of 1880, Mrs. Buchanan was Miss
Lemm, of Snails Bay. As far back as
1883 her husband was one of Balmain’s
aldermen, and in 1888 was its Mayor; he
has been, among many other things, presi-
dent of the Master Builders’ Association and
of the Employers’ Federation. Mrs. Buchanan
has been content to be a good wife and a
kind neighbor.
Congratulations to the Christopher Gat-
tenhoffs, of Ashfield, who have just celebrated
60 years of married happiness. The two
were wedded in the weatherboard St. Mary’s
that was the forerunner of the present
cathedral. Mrs. Gattenhoff’s grandparents
were attached to the household of Governor
Macquarie. Forty-seven of their sixty years
of married life have been spent in Ashfieldj.
An engagement that links two well known
family names is that of Adah Macarthur
King and Yelverton Lindeman. Adah is the
youngest daughter of the Gidley Kings, of
Tamworth and the boy-friend lives on Belle-
vue Hill.
A young daughter of that stormy petrel
the late Alfred Conroy will be wed to-night
in St. Thomas’s Church, North Sydney, be-
coming Mrs. Ronald McDonald. Congratu-
lations will be suitably launched at Watonga,
Waverton, the home of Mrs. George Sullivan,
the bride’s mother.
Tamworth had a wedding that was worth
while the other day when Meg Cohen, only
daughter of the Aubrey Cohens, became Mrs.
Foreman Nathan. R. A. Foreman Nathan
claims both Sydney and London as his
address. The Cohens are among Tamworth’s
oldest families, and there was a great roll-
up to the Jubilee Hall, where the Rabbi,
who went, like all the floral decorations,
from Sydney, tied the knot.
David Jones’s are staging (fourth floor)
what they call a Home Dressmaking
Week, and supply an expert to help begin-
ners over the hard styles.
This Letter is grieving over the loss of
a friend. He was Padre J. P. Martyn,
lately of St. James’s and formerly one of
the most popular Bush Brothers who ever
ministered to a Far West cure of souls.
(It was his sister who presided over the
last Ole Clo’ Day in St. James’s crypt.) The
padre, who died of an accident in the foot-
ball field, was a great athlete, and was cap-
taining the St. James team when the fatal
mishap occurred. An operation and two
blood transfusions failed to save the life of
this utterly unselfish young man, just in
his 28th' year.
Mrs. Maelurcan, of the Wentworth, be-
sides being a successful business woman, is
a successful grandmother—from the point
of view, anyhow, of her grandchildren, whom
she loads with affection and gifts. But her big
heart finds room for all kiddies, especially
those in distress. That is why, with the
help of a committee, she is planning a
ball to aid the children of Diggers hit by
bad times. This will take place at the
Wentworth on October 4, the evening of
Derby Day. A big cheque should result, as
Mrs. Maelurcan is shouldering all the ex-
penses.
Mary Jay, just back from her travels,
gives a reason why the principal streets of
Vienna are never disfigured with scraps of
paper or cigarette butts. The military police
have an unsmiling and determined way with
offenders. They step up and say “Fined two
bob !” —or its equivalent—and the culprit
has to produce the coin or go to court about
it. Should you step from the pavement on to
the grassy borders, the same perempto; 7
demand for instant payment is made.
But though Vienna is all loveliness, most
of the people in Central Europe are poor, and
Miss Jay was an actor in a scene which was
at once comic and pathetic. One day, pre-
paratory to dining, she dropped into a
fashionable hairdressing establishment. She
wanted her shingle water-waved, with three
curls at each side. She doesn’t speak
German, so the chief hairdresser and she
carried on in pantomime. “Ah, yes,” he
understood precisely. He called an attractive
girl-assistant and she started in with flourish-
ing tongs to make little ringlets all over the
head. In reply to distracted negatives in
pantomime from the sitter, she finally
desisted, and called the master. He returned,
bowed, and explanations began again. “Ah.
yes,” he understood precisely. He communi-
cated with many smiles to his assistant, and
this time she started to make the hair look
something like an Island boy’s. Again
came _ dissent. Again the girl, this time
wringing her hands, brought the master.
He poured forth a flood of words, rushed
from the room, and presently along the
passage came the tramp of military feet.
“Heavens!” thought Miss Jay; “has the
place been raided?” She reached for her
passport, and found it just as the door of
her cubicle was flung open. Into the small
space stepped two military police. They
saluted. One spoke. “Madame,” he said, “I
will interpret.” So Mary told the soldier
about the water-wave and the side-curls, the
soldier told the proprietor, the proprietor
told the girl, and all were smiles, bows and
politenesses. Then Miss Jay said to the
policeman: “You speak English very well,”
and he said: “Madame, I speak Russian,
French and German also. I am what you
would call a solicitor, but I can make no
money at the law, so I am military police.”
He and his companion clicked, saluted,
retired, tramp, tramp, out into the Ring-
Strasse. When the hair was dressed, the
Sydney woman in trepidation asked the cost.
Then she reckoned it out in English. Ten-
pence half-penny!
Can you answer this one? If Amy John-
son married Don Bradman, what would the
Americans call her? Such an easy one, too!
Well, if we have to tell you—Mrs. Bradman,
of course.


FROM CHINA TO PERU.
The poor little typist and what the cable
calls the proletarian woman of Russia are
not to have much choice in the coming winter
fashions. To save money and cloth the
Soviet is about to stage a mannequin parade
of revolutionary gowns. The six most
approved styles will be the only ones manu-
factured. The prevailing color will, no
doubt, be gunmetal, with blood-red splashes
of color. Royal blue is entirely out of
favor, and hats are without crowns. And
presumably the anti-religious feeling will be
illustrated by a quaint device to prevent the
wearer crossing her legs.
‘‘Mako”: A Maoriland business concern
once employed a youth who evolved an in-
genious system for defrauding the P.O. He
was a junior clerk in the parcel department,
and his duty was to stamp and dispatch
hundreds of parcels weekly ; he also had
the handling of incoming packages. From
these he would carefully collect the used
stamps, cut out the post-marked portion and
keep the rest. From the unmarked sections
and fractions of stamps he made new com-
posite ones and carefully gummed them on
the outgoing parcels. The value of the
stamps he duly charged to the firm, pocket-
ing the cash. It worked beautifully for some
months; then he became careless and the
Law grabbed him.
“Cine Ma”: The talkies are having the
effect of gradually de-Americanising the
movies. English speech is steadily taking
the place of the various United States
dialects, except in those films which are
obviously constructed for the home market
and would never go outside it if foreign pic-
ture houses were not tied up with Holly-
wood producers. 'As a sign of the times
Jesse Lasky proposes to make at Joinville,
near Paris, a second Hollywood. The climate
is no longer a drawback, since most shots
are now interiors. Lasky has engaged the
famous Russian producer Eisenstein, and
at Joinville will be gathered companies of
all nations, which will make talkies in
almost as many languages as the Bible
has been translated into. A studio is being
built capable of turning out 60 pictures
annually.
“Shep” : The Federal Government is more
reasonable in its estimates of the “serviceable
life’’ of articles of military clothing (B.
27/8/’3O) than the A.I.F, Ordnance people
were. In their eyes a uniform in which a man
had fought, sweated, slept and floundered in
the mud was still good enough for a Blighty
leave; nothing short of conspicuous rents
condemned it. So it was that many Diggers
who had left Finance decently clad arrived in
London, after the requisite rents and tears
had been effected on the train trip. It was
the same coming home. The camp Q.M.S.
on the Plains ran an eye over our draft on
arrival, and picked out those eligible for
new strides; others were told to rejuvenate
theirs with a scrubbing brush. Next day one
of the draft garbed in an emergency and
torn pair of breeks got a new issue. “Pitch
the old ones in the corner ’ere when you’ve
changed ’em,” was the tired Q.M.’s request.
But it wasn’t till a fortnight later that what
was left of those pants reached the corner,
after 10 others had utilised them, and they
might have served another 10 if the seat
had lasted. The last wearer blamed a dog
for gnawing it away.
Gilbert Mant adds a note from London: —
Corsets have been directly responsible for an Aus-
tralian flag flying over Regent-street. Fred Burley,
who shaped the waists of so many Sydney flappers,
has showrooms for his English-made Berlei “figure
foundations” in Liberty House. Until recently a
Yankee flag fluttered over this section of that exclu-
sive building, but now the Southern Cross takes
pride of place.
“Avon” : What has turned out to be rather
a cute dodge for disseminating knowledge
concerning British geography was adopted
by the founders of Christchurch (M.L.) and
its port, Lyttelton, though they had no
such object in view. They started in Lyttel-
ton, the first settlement of Canterbury pro-
vince, by naming the streets after English
episcopal sees (an Anglican organisation
Ex-Prime Minister BILLY HUGHES will
be 66 on the 25th of this month. Above
is the most interesting of all Mr.
Hughes’s 10,000 portraits. It was taken
when, as a young school-teacher, he was
in an English militia regiment.
chose the first settlers) and used up Canter-
bury, York, Exeter, Norwich, London and
Liverpool in the port before a start was
made with the city, six miles away. The rest
of the 37 episcopates of Britain were soon
dotted down on the map of the mile-square
draught-board town, and then the colonial
bishoprics were drawn upon. What has
turned out to be the main street is Colombo
and not far from the centre are Montreal,
Antigua and Barbadoes streets. When the
city overflowed to the southward into a
“working-men’s subui’b,” tastes had changed
and the great men of the Victorian era were
given a spin—Gladstone, Disraeli, Darwin,
Spencer, Tyndall, Huxley, Carlyle, Ruskin,
Morris, Tennyson, Scott, Dickens, Thackeray,
Hawthorn. Emerson and a dozen lesser lights.
It was left to the residents of the more
aristocratic residential areas to add the first
Maori names to the street directory, but even
to-day, when the town and its suburbs have
sprawled over an area of close on 50 square
miles, 80 per cent, of the nomenclature is
culled from purely English sourdes.
When Sir Thomas Tait, who kept his
66th birthday in Montreal the other day,
came to Victoria as Chief Railway Com-
missioner in 1903, the railway stations were
plastered with placards setting forth that
smoking was prohibited thereon. There was
a Social Purity League determined to see
that the by-law was observed, and several
offenders in high places, including members
of Parliament, had been prosecuted and
fined. Then one morning a breezy stranger
puffing a heavyweight cigar appeared on the
Hobson Bay platform, and had his attention
called to a strictly forbidden” notice
by one of the league workers. “Wal, stran-
ger,” drawled the newcomer, “I never : saw
the dam’ thing before.” Then to a porter,
“Boy, puli that silly affair dahn.” It was
the newly-imported Chief Commissioner.
The notices came down all over Victoria.
“Bildad”: Percy, Duke of Northumber-
land, who recently passed out in an advanced
state of conservatism, was really a Smith-
son. The Percy family, which could be
traced from the Conquest, ran short of males,
and a relation by marriage assumed the
name and the coat of arms. There is no-
thing uncommon about assuming a name or
a coat either. The Smithsonian Institute at
ONE Of AUSTRALIA’S NEW INDUSTRIES.
A crop of rice at Mrs. A. T. Edwards and Son’s farm near Leeton, Yanco irrigation
area, N. S. Wales. The picture shows the rice crop nearing maturity and just before
the water was drained off. The central strip of water depicts the method of conveying
the water from the Commission’s supply channel to the rice “bays” by earth ditch.
The “check” in the centre foreground shows method of raising the water level.
Washington (U.S.) is a member of the same
family, but an illegitimate one. There never
was a genuine Percy who was Duke of
Northumberland, though tney struggled up
as high as an earldom. One of the troubles
which keep the Smiths (like Carrington)
and the Smithsons low down on the scroll of
climbers and bounders is the tendency to
bury the old cognomen at the earliest oppor-
tunity. The startling conservatism of the
recent duke was possibly an effort to live
down and submerge the mercantile Smithson
ancestor. Still, it may be put to his credit
that he didn’t float himself into a company,
as other noblemen have done, in order to
dodge taxes. History would have been a
poor sordid thing if the battle of Waterloo
had been fought between the Duke of Wel-
lington, Limited, and Napoleon, fully paid
np.
“Ben More”: It isn’t necessary to go out
into the wilds of the earth to find people
unacquainted with the amenities of our
modern civilisation. St. Kilda, |he little
island 60 miles west of the Hebrides, was
finally evacuated the other day, after being
inhabited for over a thousand years, and the
islanders, 37 of them, along with their 1200
sheep, removed to the mainland. Few of
those 37 had ever before seen, not only a
train, a tram, a motor-car or a policeman,
but even a horse or a tree. St. Kilda
has been Britain’s loneliest isle since
the Norman Conquest, and it is by order of
the Board of Agriculture that it has been
made even lonelier.
“J.J.”: “S. M. Herald” discussing the
reprehensible practice of “jay-walking,” says
that the term originated in America, and is
based on the character of the jay, a notori-
ously stupid bird. Personally I have always
found the English jay, much detested by
gamekeepers, an uncommonly acute bird. The
American variety may be different, but
Webster, which mentions its roving habits,
harsh voice and pugnacious disposition,
doesn’t accuse it of stupidity. There are
secondary meanings derived from the bird’s
characteristics and attached to humans, such
as “an impertinent chatterer” and “a gaudy or
flashy woman,” but the term which is the
equivalent of “a greenhorn” or “a country
bumpkin” probably has quite a different
origin. It may be no more than the initial
letter of that good old English word
“juggins.”
“Nakhoda”: The layman must often
wonder how anthropologists are able to con-
struct their charming pictures of primitive
man from such fragments as the scrap of
skull discovered in Pekin recently. In his
latest work, “Man’s Place Among the Mam-
mals,” Prof. Wood Jones, of Melbourne
University, one of the world’s greatest
anatomists, suggests that they give their
fancies free rein in these reconstructions.
In proof thereof he instances the case of
the patriotic American scientists who
modelled a beautiful specimen of homo more
or less sapiens out of a tooth that later
turned oiit to be that of a peccary, a variety
of pig; and there is another of the
same thing being done with a bear’s tooth.
Jones contends that it is impossible to recon-
struct not only the body of a primitive man,
but even his facial appearance, from a study
of a skull fragment, and quotes a personal
experience. For eight years he shared a
room with the skeleton of a deceased pro-
fessor, Whom he had never seen. He used
constantly to amuse himself by trying to
imagine what the professor looked like. Hater
he saw a photo of him and it contradicted
his imaginings in every particular.
A statement that the tulips in front of
Parliament House cost £3OOO has been indig-
nantly denied, but the fact remains that the
Seullinary Government has provided for an
expenditure of £26,000 on Canberra gardens
this year. A short time ago there were esti-
mated to be over 200 gardeners employed in
tracking down the slugs in the city’s inter-
minable plantatibns, many of which extend
into the bush without a house or Government
department within sight, One of the regula-
tions provides that if a resident’s private plot
is hot’sufficiently umbrageous the authorities
can sdnd a squad of men to plant trees in
his back yard. The top soil being poor and
the subsoil being rock, this is a costly pro-
cess, but everything is costly at Canberra.
“Oliphant’s River” ■ The cabled news that
Princess Alice, wife of the retiring Gover-
nor-General' of South Africa, has shot a
lioness arouses my sympathy for the latter.
Big-game shooting in Africa, as elsewhere,
is now a highly commercialised pursuit.
Enterprising individuals who specialise in
the business are to be found in every town
of importance in the big-game country-—-one
prominent firm at Nairobi is Australian in
personnel. For a fixed sum per head these
people will personally conduct an expedition,
finding everything required, from cartridges
to whisky, and guaranteeing so many lions
or other desired game at fixed rates per
head. American millionaires are particu-
larly addicted to this form of sport, being
assured that, if they miss, the sure-shooting
conductor will drop their lion for them to
take back to America and expatiate upon.
Indeed, many of them find it more comfort-
able to let the professional hunters go out
and do the shooting, while they stay in
Nairobi and drink gin rickeys in a cane
chair on the club verandah.
“Teod”: Down the road towards the
navvies’ camp trudged a young couple. The
girl was wheeling a battered perambulator
in which sat a baby boy. She carried a
fair-sized swag strapped across her shoulders.
Her husband, a rakish-looking specimen,
walked along three or four yards behind
rolling a cigarette. When they came abreast,
Scotty, our foreman, chipped him. “Wliat
sort of a crimson man are you,” he snapped,
“lettin’ the wife hump the" swag and wheel
the flamin’ kid as well?” The rakish one
stopped, wetted the gum of the cigarette-
paper, lit a match, paused, and then said
“Well, I can’t ask the kid to carry it, can
I?”
“Cadonga” : He was obviously drunk, and
just as obviously hankering for some sort
of social intercourse in a strange city. He
pulled up before a man who was waiting for
a tram and, putting a cigarette between his
lips, asked: “Could yer oblige me with a
light?” The stranger nodded and proffered
his matchbox. “Seems ter me I’ve seen yer
before, mate,” observed the drunk affably.
“Didn’t I meet yer in Melbourne once?”
The other shook his head. “No,” he said
curtly, “I’ve never been in Melbourne.” He
made for the tram that was just pulling up ;
but the lonely inebriate was not to be
baulked. He seized the other’s arm and
brought him to a standstill. “I never been
in Melbourne, either, cobber,” he admitted,
“but here, hold on! I wonder who them
two blokes was that met in Melbourne that
time!”
“Ivaisinik”: As our latinch chugged up
the Strickland River we spied a village on
the bank, the wall-less houses consisting of
a thatch above rude sleeping platforms. Like
a giant towering above pygmies was a
barn-like building, heavily walled, nearly
200 feet long. Not a soul was in sight.
Cautiously we turned in towards the bank,
curious to peep into the communal house.
Not a dog snarled as we negotiated the
great notched pole that led up to the plat-
form, 20 feet above ground. Our heads
craned forward, we stepped into a twilit hall,
sinister with smells. The roof was sup-
ported by the trunks of trees. Forming
shadows down both sides of the barn were
numerous mat cubicles. Before each cubicle
was a clay fireplace still smoking. The tails of
baking fish curled up from the ashes. At the
darkest end of the hall was a stout parti-
tion—probably beyond lay the sanctum of
the sorcerers. In every cubicle was a bow
and a big bundle of arrows. Long ceremonial
drums and several grotesque, grass-haired
masks stood solemnly by the tree-trunk
The mother of all “Tin Lizzies”—the first
American car seen on the Continent of
Europe.
supports. Fishingrnets of fibre hung from
the rafters. Impelled by our noses we peered
into a smoke-blackened cubicle criss-crossed
with poles all greasy. There hung things
like stuffed pigs’ . heads, horribly bloated.
One was barred with red and yellow
ochre; two others had eyes of mussel-shell,
circular and staring, the nose sockets and
mouths filled with red baked clay. As we
gazed in disgust, a hollow booming sound
came from across the river. It may only
have been a cassowary, but we hurried to the
launch and got away, thinking ourselves
lucky to have our heads still on our
shoulders.
“Youanme” : I never hear anyone complain-
ing that butter is a “trifle off” without think-
ing of the stuff we smeared on our bread
or damper, whenever it was procurable, in
the early ’nineties on the Westralian gold-
fields. It was all tinned stuff, of course,
imported from Victoria or Maoriland, and it
may have been landed in excellent condition.
But, carted by teamsters for hundreds of miles
over blazing tracks, it had often liquefied and
solidified again dozens of times before it
reached the consumer, and once the tin
was opened, in summer-time, its deterioration
was more rapid still. Yet we consumed it
appreciatively; at its worst it was better
than none. Dried apricots and other fruits,
that only needed boiling water to make them
edible, had a ready sale. One esculent I
have never seen before or since was desic-
cated potatoes. These, cut in slivers, respon-
ded to the same simple treatment, but the
resultant mess bore no more than a faint
resemblance to the mashed article that goes
with sausages. I remember one enterprising
hop-beer seller who tried to brew cider out
of dried apples, but his customers made such
wry faces over the decoction that he didn’t,
persevere with his experiment.
“Poilu”: Republican France, the home of
“Liberty, Equality and Fraternity,” deals
more drastically with those who speak out
of their turn than any of the monarchist
countries. The recent expulsion of W. R.
Hearst, the U.S.A. Yellow Press magnate,
whose papers for years have been stirring up
international ill-feeling against France,
and industrial unrest in France, is the
latest case in point. The Jock Gardens of
Paris are gaoled in large numbers where
they are French (a few years ago five Com-
munist Deputies were in gaol at the same
time), and deported where they are for-
eigners. Strikes are controlled by the
national Government, and where a strike
in an essential industry, or a general strike,
is planned (the comrades try to start a
general strike each May Day), the military
take a ruthless hand. According to French
political logic, British Left Wing unionism
and Russian Bolshevism, both of which in-
volve the creation of small privileged classes,
are incompatible with the democratic French
doctrine of equal opportunities for all.
“Lord Luvus” ; Anybody who has tried to
destrov an injured, diseased or unnecessmy
cat will feel a certain amount of sympathy
foy Wing-Commander Dalton, director of the
ML air services, who was fined £2 and
costs at Wellington for having executed a
tabby in a way not approved of by the
SPC A. In Australia it is not generally
known that the society issues a booklet
describing the most humane methods, with
illustrations, and, better still, is prepared, on
request, to take the job of executioner out
of the householder’s hands. Some time ago
my wife, in my absence, decided to reduce
the feline population round our dwelling-
Accordingly she ’phoned the society, and, with
a promptitude which would have done credit
to a metropolitan fire brigade, _ a glittenng
motor-equipage appeared and disgorged two
uniformed officials. Their preparations were
not unlike those for a major operation. A
few minutes later they departed, leaving
behind them two corpses and a strong odor
of anaesthetic. Ours is a humane civilisa-
tion —when it comes to felines.
“Mullingar”: A cable from Berlin men-
tions that, owing to the increasing rough-
ness of election meetings in Germany, it
has been decreed that seats in public halls
tt'iist be screwed to the floor “to deprive
partisans of ready-made iveapons.” I remem-
ber attending one election meeting m Aus-
tralia where the rowdiness culminated m
the dismembering of chairs and forms .for
purposes of active hostility. It was at Kal-
■goorlie in 1901 when C. J. Moran, the local
member who was seeking re-election, found
himself facing a jeering, taunting crowd,
who were determined not to let a sentence be
1 heard. The “alluvial troubles” were still fresh
iu memory, and Moran s attitude in Pailia-
ment had displeased the miners, whose dis-
pleasure had been fanned into wlnte-hot
resentment by the goldfields press. Hie
speaker faced his detractors gamely enough,
but not a word of his attempted justification
carried more than a few feet in that tornado
of veils and howls and shouted insults. He
stuck to it for three hours, and then the
furniture began to crack, and his supporters
and the police, sensing the rush that was
coming, managed to get him away in safety.


m
SBBS
m
:■
■ss:
$ i
m
sssg
$
I
, IS
$BBB
m
■£k : v^>+
I','d
Queen’s Court is one of the most interesting sights of Bryce Canyon, National
Park, where Nature’s handiwork seems almost Gothic in its beauty of form ,•
America’s colourful west
• • where "pictures” are made
Include this interesting country
in your next trip to ENGLAND
The towering Hotel Neiv Yorker
typifies Americas newest style
of structural architecture ivith
its pyramidal set - hacks.
IN moving pictures of thrilling
western life in America, you’ve
doubtless admired the rugged moun-
tains, the sculptured canyons, the castle-
like cliff dwellings of prehistoric peoples,
the far-flung ranches where Indians and
cowboys live.
Did you know that this picturesque
country is right on your shortest, fastest
route to England?
When next you go “back home,” plan
to see America! You sail from Sydney
to San Francisco on a fast Matson liner
with moving pictures, orchestra, deck
sports, swimming pool. Daylight stops
are made at Fiji, Samoa, Hawaii. The
climate is pleasant all the way.
From San Francisco you have a scenic
trip across the United States in a
luxurious modern railway train. What-
ever route you choose, there are many
things that will make your trip interesting
and memorable! Bryce, Zion, Yellow-
stone, Yosemite, Grand Canyon and other
National Parks. Hollywood, Los Angeles,
Salt Lake City, Denver, Chicago, New
York, among cities.
1
m
Riding wild bulls is one of the
favourite sports of the cowboys —
seen on ranches and at rodeos
in America’s far-western States.
Ask for our new free literature, “To
England Across America,” telling liow
you can arrange your entire trip before
you leave Australia.
Write to Dept. M 20
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL
and INFORMATION RCREAIJ
12 Bridge Street,
Sydney.


&
v-
'HE prettiest effects in
children’s clothes result
when you use “80-Peep” Print.
Only a small outlay is required
to clothe a child so that its
merry pranks can go on un-
checked. This dependable
fabric will not readily soil, and
is made in a wide variety of
smart designs, all wash-fast.
(BQ:<J>ee]f(J)rint
ioo t4°od"~ for Childrens Wear. OZ 7m.
Produced by the makers of “Tricoline”—the equal
to silk. “80-Peep ” Print is obtainable in many
styles, designs and colorings. SOLD BY
LEA DINO DRAPERS AND STORES.
If any difficulty in obtaining, please write: —
MR. RANDELL,
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street, Sydney.
hfdh
31 3131 V A
Lustre
... loveliness
The smart woman who is
wisely economical finds
Lustre Full Fashioned
Hosiery ideal. Here are
united the most wonder-
ful loveliness, enduring
wearing quality and value
that is from two to four
shillings better than any
imported stockings.
Purest silk, finely knitted
with the smoothest tex-
ture, and shaped to fit
with glovelike closeness,
adds the desired exquisite
touch to the ensemble . . .
an exquisiteness which is
never marred by the
slightest wrinkle at the
ankles or knees.
Inspect Lustre Full Fashioned
Hosiery at any smart store . . .
but for your own protection
insist on Lustre and look for
the label.
LUSTRE
FULL FASHIONED
ft
D
Mill
B 577.
Sl4—£3o.
S 24 £5O.
No. 306—£25.
No. 308—£55.
No. 307 —£65.
S 23—£75.
S 7 —Circle Rin&, set
with 24 Brilliant Cut
Diamonds, £lB.
Others from £l2/10/-
Sl3—£27/10/-
S 26—£37/10/-
Drummond’s Engagement Rings are un-
equalled for value. Customers are cordially
invited to inspect the stock without any
obligation whatever to make a purchase.
Special attention is called to the magnificent
selection of Rings, mounted with the latest
Baton- and Calibre-cut Diamonds, priced at
£37/10/-, £45 and £5O. Complete satisfac-
tion is assured or purchase money will be
refunded.
DIAMOND-AND-PEARL-SPECIAUSTS-
-344-346 COLLINS STREET
MELBOURNE
NATIONAL BANK
OP AUSTRALASIA LTD.
HEAD OFFICE, MELBOURNE.
* ,
ini
Capital Paid up
£5,000,000
Reserve Fund
(used in the business)
£3,200,000
Total Assets
£45,600,000
503 Offices and Branches.
LONDON OFFICES:
7 Lothbury and
Australia House, Strand.
Principal Office in New South Wales:
342 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bank provides a complete service covering the financial
side of Australian Industry—including farming, grazing,
manufacturing, transport, wholesale and retail trade, as well
as import and export transactions. It makes loans against
approved securities and allows interest on money lodged on
deposit for terms ranging up to two years. Full provision
is made to meet the banking needs of tourists and settlers.
Agents throughout the World.


FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS, LTD.,
Presentation
Tea and Coffee
Sets and Trays
6 °! ' ser !' ice l . ma >’ be expected
iiom this extremely handsome James I
service. It is a product of Sheffield and
is very heavily silverplated on a hard
white metal base.
The Teapot and Coffee Pot have black
ebomsed handles and hold two pints each
2“'“ “?« **«, one, SifSSumSi
set at their usual keen pre-tariff prices
no better value anywhere. P
Teapot, Sugar and
Cream £7 7 0
Coffee Pot 4 j g
Tra y 6 15 0
COMPLETE, £lB/9/6
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney ”
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
jCarllon
UVENWARE
English Manufacture.
DIRECT FROM
OVEN TO TABLE
f
a
m,
Price of Oval Casserole, 111
Price of Pie Dish, 8/6
Smedley Service
pARLTON OVENWARE
is fashioned for oven and
table use, and quite different
from other ovenware,
EASY TO CLEAN
No pots and pans are necessary,
and the grease simply won’t
stay on after the ware has been
used.
FTtFE Illustrated leaflet of Casseroles,
Baking and Pudding Dishes, Stew Pots,
etc. ( 50 different pieces) from
R. BARLOW & SONS PTY., LTD.,
328 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Melbourne
Chetter
Buckley's
Clizabethan
Tea Rooms
P[?]
Buckly C Nunm Limited
B[?]
Straws are back in favor for millinery, and
in the showroom of our leading ragshops
every conceivable variety of weave and plait
is exemplified for spring and summer wear.
Having exhausted all the varieties and sizes
m shiny or dull, cobwebby or coarse, stiff or
limp qualities, and in all colors and shades,
the milliner has gone to the dress-goods
department for further material. There are
the most fascinating floppy creations of
organdie, with layers of flowers between
double brims (an old falshion revived) ;
stitched fancy silk, and fascinating linen
hats for warm weather. Why, oh why, do
they make these radical changes at a time
when we are all being asked to be
economical, and when most of us have to be.
How happy could we have been with the
felt hats and short skirts of yesteryear had
not the tempter put different ideas into our
minds!
For the last few days our social world has
reyolved around the women's golf champion-
ships. There were daily lunches at the
principal club-houses to entertain visitors,
and bridge parties in the evenings. The
dressing on the links lias been very smart.
English tweeds are in favor this year for
skirts, in many cases associated with match-
ing coats, which are cast aside when the
player is in action. A hat of the same
material is usual. These tweeds are of the
soft loosely-woven variety, in mottled designs.
A finely knitted jumper in contrasting colors
is a correct accompaniment, thoug'h some
players prefer a silk shirt, worn with a
sleeveless coat. Suede coats of about liip-
length have been seen on the links frequently
lately. They are light and rainproof, and as
tney don’t hamper the player they are just
the thing for showery weather. Very cosy-
looking- and attractive jumpers are being
made also in soft kid or suede with waist-
and wrist-bands formed by many rows of
knitted silk in matching shade.
After being runner-up in the women’s golf
championship last year, when the combat
was staged in S.A., Susie Tolhurst clinched
her claim to the title on Thursday. Miss
Wray, of Sydney, beat her last year by one
point, and Miss Tolhurst this year won by
the same margin over Mrs. Alex. Russeli.
Among those who watched the play in the
final match at the Commonwealth links was
Lady Somers, who was in sports attire of
light green, with a striped jumper in fawn
and reseda tones. Her Ex. handed over the
rewards. With the championship trophy
went a brooch—a golden laurel wreath—-
and Mrs. Russell received a silver replica.
Bronze, medals were given to Mrs. J. A. Hay
and Miss O. Kay, of Maoriland, the other
semi-finalists. The president of the Com-
monwealth Club, R. H. Morton, thanked
Lady Somers, and the proceedings wound up
with tea and cakes.
A pessimistic lady said as she stepped
out of the race train at Caulfield on Satur-
day, “Here we are again, going to be shorn !”
Alas, in the case of most of us it was a
very, true prediction. Winners were harder
to pick than ever, and the failure of Amounis
in especial left thousands lamenting. The
lovely warm weather brought out a few of
the hats designed to bloom in the spring, and
some of the. new ensemble suits and gowns
had an airing. Among the smartest of
materials featured in the new modes is a
black velvet, so light as to be almost trans-
parent.. A frock of this, made on princess
robe lines, dropping to the heels at the
back, with a vest or faint pink chiffon, was
finished with accordeon-pleated frills and
looked very effective. The accompanying hat
was of moderate size, in shiny straw. Mag-
pie blends were to be seen everywhere. They
can be made to look very refined —or very
vulgar. Among patrollers of the lawns
were Mrs, E, M. Pearce and her daughter
Elaine, and Mrs. R. G. Casey. Mrs. Lort
Smith and her sister Marion Montgomery
were there, also Mr. and Mrs. James Purves,
she wearing a black tailored suit with a
coat posy of white. Hylda McCardel, just
back from a visit to England, where she
curtsied to George Rex and Mary Regina,
was in bottle green. Mrs. Percy Black-
bourn and Mrs. lan Sargood showed how
black-and-white should be blended. Mrs.
Len Buxton sported a well-cut suit of lapis-
lazuli hue with a felt hat of the same shade.
Mrs. John Downie, a visitor from Hobart,
was accompanied by her daughter-in-law,
Mrs. W. G. Downie. Mrs. Lauchie Mac-
kinnon lent a„ bright note -to the dressing
with a scarlet top-coat worn with' a felt
hat of lighter shade.
The Ormond College dance was staged in
St. Kilda Town Hal] on Thursday night, and
is was a very dressy affair. Among ."the
guests of honor were Mrs. D. K. Picken,
wife of the head of Ormond, whose draperies
were of sapphire-blue lace; the Warden of
Trinity, Dr. Behan, and his wife, whose nut-
brown frock was embellished with a touch of
pink ; Prof. Ken Bailey, accompanied by Mrs.
Bailey, who wore , bright green chiffon, and
Miss J. Alexander, president of the Women’s
Association of Ormond, in dove-grey georg-
ette and lace. Margai'et Picken sported a
filmy frock of delicate pink, and Lois Ritchie,
a visitor from the Speck, mingled blue and
black in her patterned flounced chiffon gown.
A tracery of silver sprinkled Ethel See-
kamp’s dainty white grosgrain silk frock.
A very colorful affair was the ball given
by the officers of the Australian Artillery,
Third Military District, at St. Kilda Town
Hall. The function was a combined effort
of the Melbourne artillery companies. His
Ex. and Lady Somers joined whole-heartedly
in the dance. Their arrival was announced
by a fanfare of trumpets, and greetings were
said by Major-General G. J. Johnston and
the lion, sec., Major W. S. Serivenor. Also
in the official circle were Lieut-Col. and Mrs.
W. H. St. Clair, she in plum-colored georg-
ette and lace; and Gwen Johnston, whose
dark cornflower blue had a border of wee
frills about the hem. Lady Somers’s gown
of aquamarine-blue satin dipped gracefully
to the ankles at the sides, and her only
jewellery was a string of pearls. In the
v.-r. party were Captain R. T. A. McDonald
and Mrs. McDonald, she in bois-de-rose lace
with a number of small satin bows coursing
down the front of the bodice. Guests of
honor included Major-General Coxen and
Mrs. Coxen, Brigadier W. H. Scott and
Mrs. Scott, and the just-elected Mayor of
St. Ivilda. Captain Jacka, V.C. Mrs. Jacka
accompanied her husband, wearing a
flounced frock of delphinium-blue georgette.
Among the dancers were Lieut.-Col. Forrest,
who brought his daughter Peggy, in cherry-
red moire. The wife of Col. Colquhoun, of
Albury, danced in coral-pink moire. Ella
Coxen chose lolly-red chiffon, and Madge
Taylor was in white chiffon fashioned with
a double-tiered skirt. Mrs. Troedel sported
black velvet. Mrs. L. Furze Morrish, who
was with Captain Morrish, looked handsome
in white satin with a shoulder spray of
crimson flowers. A few effective confec-
tions of magpie blend were on view, and the
hall was decked in red, white and na'vy
blue.
Well known in social welfare circles in
this city is Mrs. James Alston, pictured here
by Johnstone,
O ’ S liannessy
and Falk. Be-
sides giving
liberally, she
works ha r d
for good
causes. She is
president o f
the Women’s
Hospital, and
one of the
foremost work-
ers for the
St. Vincent’s,
Alfred, Mel-
bourne and
Children’s hos-
pitals. That
doesn’t ex-
haust her in-
terests, and it:
would be
easier to re-
cite the phil-
anthropic movements that have no claim on
her attention than those that have. Her
organising ability and consummate tact won
widespread recognition in war-time, when !
she managed a variety of committees.
At the Royal Horticultural Society’s daffo-
dil show last week the judges selected as the
champion bloom a hug:e yellow trumpet named
Renown. There were many new varieties
in the collection, but to the Unexpert eye
they didn’t appear different from older breeds
The Orchid Club made a wonderful show
rr*. wers which it specialises, and
the City and the Malvern municipal gardens
furnished a brave array of white, pink and
red cyclamens. The curator of the Fitzroy
Cardens was awarded a silver modal for his
entry, which included- gorgeous- cinerarias
and some beautiful foliage plants. Alister
Clark s garden was represented by a lovely
non-competitive display.
There was a wedding at St. Hilda Syna-
gogue last week, the principals being Elsa
elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs. L. J Marks
of Malvern and Donald, elder son of the
Reuben Hallensteins, of St. Hilda. Satin of
the tint of old ivory with a train of long
overlapping petals of the same material and
a . . tul “ veil graced the bride. Three ’maids
attended m golden-brown tulle, long and
deeply pleated of skirt, with blue velvet
waist belts. After-rejoicings at No. 9.
A knot-tying of interest to folk in the
Creswick district of Ballarat happened last
week when Milly, daughter of the Henry
Peacocks, of Camberwell, married Richard
iWalsh, of Surrey Hills, at Our Lady of
Victories’ Church, Camberwell. The bride’s
ivory silk lace gown was a foundation for
billows of tulle that made veil and train.
Two ’maids contrasted pink and blue in
their satin frocks. There were after-rejoicings
at No. 9. Speaker Peacock and his lady
motored from Creswick to attend their niece’s
nuptials. The bride’s great-grandmother,
Mrs. E. Butler, one of the pioneer settlers ,
of Ballarat, demonstrated the healthiness of
the climate by living until she was 109.
President H. G. Mcßoberts, of the Yarra
Yarra Golf Club, entertained members and
friends at the links at Bentleigli recently.
Beautiful weather encouraged the formation
of pairs and foursomes, and there was a
pleasant gathering over the cheering brew
afterwards. In engineering the party Mr.
Mcßoberts had the aid of his wife and of
Mrs. G. Brooke-Hutchings, president of the
associates, the captain of the club, F. G.
Hanson, and a small committee.
Two of the busiest people in Melbourne
these days are Mr. and Mrs. 11. Schwieger.
He is manager
of the R.A.S.
Show, which
is to open on
the 18th, and
promises to
attract record
entries in
many depart-
ments. One of
this year’s
special attrac-
tions will be
a huge clock of
flowery, all
a-growing and
a-bl ooming.
Mrs. Schwic-
ger, pictured
here by Lafay-
ette, is in
charge of the
women’s sec-
tion, and for
some years
past has been responsible for the manage-
ment of the whole of the pavilion devoted
to feminine work.
Ex-students of Firbank C. of E. Grammar
School, which celebrates its coming-of-age
this year, met around bridge tables last
week to assist the finances of their Alma
Mater. Joyce Young was hon. sec. of the
party, which was held at Hindley House.
The headmistress, Miss M. Cameron, who is
president of the Old Grammarians, was a
guest of honor.
Preliminary expenses of the ball for the
Homoeopathic Hospital are pretty well
assured, thanks to bridge. Mrs. Coxon
Young organised a card-gathering at the
Plaza, assisted by her daughter Joyce, Mrs.
F. Martin and Mrs. 11. S. Iv. Ward. There
were raffles and sales of flowers and home-
made cakes.
Helpers of the Blind Institution gave a
dance last week to put some cash into the
Institute’s coffers. Mrs. J. Frost, president
of the council of auxiliaries, headed the
organising committee, and had the assistance
of vice-president James Angus, W. H.
Richardson and the superintendent, S. W.
Hedger.
The H. R. Balfours’ home at Toorak was
the scene of a musical matinee the other
day, the Y.W.C.A. being the beneficiary. The
fine organ installed in the music-room of
this home was played by Elizabeth Camp-
bell. Gladys MacDowell and Miss C. Nas-
son lifted their voices in song, and ’cellist
Sheila Macfie was also heard.
A social gathering of last week was a
bridge afternoon at Mrs. W. G. Sharp’s
home at Queens-road. Beautiful flowers
decked the reception-rooms. Black attire
was chosen by many of the numerous women
assembled, the hostess brightening her black
satin gown with a coat embossed in gold.
Mrs. Norman Brookes, in ninon; Mrs. Harry
Emmerton, Nicholas Lockyer’s lady and
Minnie and Bertha Blair were among the
players.
The Girls’ Week appeal brought the
Ladies’ Benevolent Society £4OOO, which is
to be used to help unemployed women and
girls. For some time the Y.W.C.A. has
been doing good work with its employment
bureau, and in a few days the Government
will set up a bureau for the same purpose.
In charge of this venture will be Miss A.
J. B. Stewart, formerly an inspector of
factories and shops. For nine years she
has been in the Government service and
for part of this period was in the Infant
Welfare Department. She is a trained
nurse.
Bridge was played at Mrs. S. J. Staugh-
ton’s Toorak home as a means of stocking
the stall of the Ministering Children’s
League on Wattle Day. Every guest brought
a parcel, and the stall will overflow with
home-made jams, pickles and other ( dainties.
Mrs. Staughton, who had several assistants,
including her daughter Suzanne, wore a
velvet gown of lapis-lazuli hue, sprinkled
with a small pattern in pale pink.
One of the parties of last week was a
dinner at Menzies’ with an after-visit to
“The New Moon,” hostessed by Mrs. J. C.
Rennie. The junior A team of Kingston
Heath Golf Club, of whose associates Mrs.
Rennie is the' president, has won the Pen-
nant Cup, and the gathering was by way of
celebration.
Close on a thousand collection-boxes
rattled in the city streets on Friday, which
was Wattle Day, dedicated to an annual
begging on behalf of the GO or so societies and
institutions devoted to the welfare of child-
ren. A harvest of £l7OO had been counted
at the time this Page went to press. Sup-
plementing the traffic in souvenir buttons
there were well-stocked stalls containing
home-made preserves, cakes and flowers.
Lady Somers made a round of the chief
collecting centres in the afternoon accom-
panied by H. I. Cohen, M-D.C., president of
the Children’s Welfare Association, and made
some purchases.
There was dancing on the Yarra bank at
Henley on Saturday when the Junior Wattle
League paid homage to our national flower,
and at the same time collected some money
to endow a cot at the Crippled Children’s
Hospital at Frankston. Wearing Grecian
tunics and garlands of flowers, many young
folk tripped gracefully in ballots, a sunny
afternoon helping the effect. Laurie Stein
and Phyllis Connor were lion. secs, of the
affair, and Dorothy Gladstone’s pupils and
members of the Folk Dancing Society were
the performers.
“Lilac Time” was revived at the Royal
on Saturday night, the fragrant blooms in
the courtyard of Franz Schubert’s lodging-
house being a shade or two deeper- in hue
than in the earlier production here. A
packed house was enthusiastic in its appre-
ciation, and there was a great welcome for
John Ralston. Lili (Marie Bremner), Willi
and Tilli tripped on in pink bow-decked blue
gowns with matching wee parasols and poke
bonnets. Romola Hansen, as Marini, dis-
played her lace petticoats beneath a pink-
brocaded taffeta gown in the charming double
wedding scene. There were armfuls of flowers
for the principals at the finish. The audience
was a dressy one, and coats collared in white
fur were legion. Dr. and Mrs. H. Douglas
Stephens were in a d.-c. box, beneath being
Mrs. Russell Gabb, Mrs. Forbes McKenzie,
Doris Moffatt and Mrs. J. H. Moss, the last-
named in a striking green velvet and chiffon
coat. Mrs. Leslie Macdonald, the Morell
lady and Sheila, Mr. and Mrs. T. V. Millea,
the John Taits, the Fred Bishops and Mrs.
Dale were in the stalls. Peggy Ewing, who
is to wed Vaughan Cutten, of Adelaide Stock
Exchange, this week was there in rose-red
chiffon and a velvet coat of the same hue.
She w T as one of a party that included her
bridesmaids-elect, Cara Waters and Freda
Irving.
A musical partnership of 16 years’ stand-
ing was severed by the death last week of
George Brooke, inseparably associated in the
mind of the public with pianist Edward
Cahill. Mr. Brooke, who lately concluded
a successful Queensland tour with his co-
artist, came to Melbourne to consult a
specialist, and died at Mount St. Evin’s Hos-
pital after an operation. He was born in
Melbourne, and was a clerk in the employ
of the Metropolitan Board of Works before
he embarked on a musieal career. Brooke
and Cahill made their names in London,
where lords and ladies vied for their ser-
vices at private concerts and Queen Mary
commanded their attendance at Windsor.
About thr,ee and a half years ago Mr. Brooke
married the widow of Thomas Hardman, of
Melbourne.
Mary Turner, a daughter of the knight who
was twice Premier of this State and after-
wards the Commonwealth’s first Treasurer,
recently equipped the Victoria League Club’s
new rooms with a piano, her sister being asso-
ciated with her in the gift. There was a
little presentation ceremony at the monthly
social gathering, and the Allen lady returned
thanks. The afternoon’s hostesses were
headed by Mrs. Eric Watson, and music
was made by Biddy Allen, Gertrude Healy
and Mrs. Burke.
W. R. Sedon lias moved liis art-gallery
business from a less central situation to
Elizabeth House, in Little Collins-street. The
building used to have painful associations,
as it housed the Taxation Office, but that
Has now been transferred to Bourke-street,
so we can feast our eyes on Mr. Sedon’s trea-
sures with a mind undistracted by calcula-
tions of our liability for the upkeep of Aus-
tralia. Among the pictures now on view are
two by the late Louis Buvelot, a Melbourne
artist of French extraction, who flourished—
if painters ever do flourish —in the early
’eighties.


Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner, a
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive winter tariff from
13/6 per day; £3/13/6 weekly. Special quotations
for sporting bodies, etc. Situated right opposite
Spencer Street Station, no taxi fares; railway porter
carries baggage across if necessary. Please write
for detailed tariff card. Garlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne,
is sufficient address.
TOWN OR COUNTRY.
From its inception the Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia
has extended its services to the people as a whole.
Recognising that the man in the country, equally with the city
dweller, needed efficient and widely extended banking service, the Bank
has made its facilities available from all points—by nearly 4000 Post
Office Agencies as well as by 94 full Branches in the principal towns.
In addition to local business, money may be transferred to and from all
States free of Exchange, and travellers may, by arrangement, make
deposits or withdrawals at any Branch or Agency.
There is no charge for opening an account, and deposits of from
1/- upwards may be made at any time.
Cbmonwealtl) Savings Bank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
For the Spring and Summer
Evenings.
MONDAY TO FRIDAY.
DELIGHTFUL SUPPER DANCES.
Commencing at 8 p.m.—and
finishing at midnight.
SUPPER 5/ including dancing.
Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY NIGHT, LATE NIGHT.
Evening Dress Only.
Special Supper from 9 p.m., 10/6
—dancing till 2 a.m.
JACK WOOD’S POPULAR
AMBASSADOR ORCHESTRA.
Afternoon Tea
Dansant
3.30 till 5.30, 2/6
Saturday . . 4/-
'Phone M 4131.
THIRTY PIECES OF SILVER
By Montague Grover
ILLU STRfITED BY PERCY LINDSAY
Synopsis : In the coastal town of
Illawarra Jimmy Packington, an
orphan, is "brought up by Mary West,
a rosy-cheeked spinster so motherly
that she is generally known as “Mrs.”
Early she leads him into the habit of
using his head to think with, but is too
poor to enable him to take advantage of
the free education offering, and Jimmy
begins shovelling at C. J. Grey and
Co.’s cokeworks, where he quickly
wins fame as a boxer. He also attracts
the interest of Basil Wellington, an
Oxford man who is running the local
’Guardian,” and who coaches him for
night school. While he is at work
one day a party which includes Grey
and two daughters and Major Dal-
gety, manager of the Keira Main Coal
Co., comes on a tour of inspection.
Jimmy sees Alma, Grey and at once
idealises her as the unattainable. He
meets her some time later, but the
fact that he is shovelling coke prevents
the girl’s father from encouraging
Jimmy, though Alma and her sister
and Mrs. Urey like him. Jimmy, who
has several of his verses published in
a city paper, the radical “Ishmaelite,”
subsequently meets May Harland, a
bright, enei'getic girl, who has con-
verted Mrs. Blessington’s shop in Illa-
warra into a paying business, and
who “Mrs.” West, before her death,
had hoped he would marry. They
become intimate, but May declines to
marry him, telling him that she has
had other lovers and urging him to go
after his ideal girl, May goes to
Sydney and has begun a stage career
when Jimmy next meets her. Mean-
while, having been beaten in a match
by his mate Patsy Quirk, Jimmy has
given up the idea of becoming a boxer,
and, helped by Wellington, has decided,
upon journalism as his life work,
CHAPTER XV.
“T TELL yer, comrades,” cried Mqon, “this
X is th’ thin hend o’ th’ wedge. Yer
may say it’s a small thing because
yer don’t collect a few shillin’s from th’
parasites on Labor. But it’s a matter o’
principle. Ther’s more at th’ back of it.
It’s an attempt on th’ part o’ th’ co-warts o’
capitalism ter break down th’ cause o’
unionism onst an’ fur all.
“They’s men—if yer can call them men
—workin’ beside yer in that mine, takin’
th’ wages an’ th’ privileges ye’ve fought
fur in th’ past, an’ they ain’t men enough
ter take their share o’ th’ burden. They’re
th’ cowards ’oo skulk be’ind th’ battle an’
come in over th’ gristley forms o’ them
what died fur liberty, ter steal their share
o’ the fruits o’ victorjC’
A dozen men working oh the Keira Main
were not members of a union. There had
been thirty originally, but the rest, when
approached, had joined at once. The dozen,
all “pommies”—English immigrants—had
pleaded that they needed every penny of
their wages just now to get a home together
for wives and families. Later, they averred,
they would join and pay off arrears. Moon
contended that the story of making the
homes was only a stall, inspired by the
Employers’ Federation, and that the whole
thing was an insidious endeavor to destroy
the unions of the South Coast.
Jimmy tried to consider the question
without bias. He came to the conclusion
that this time Moon was right. The
majority of the “pommies” were housed as
well as many of the older miners. They
could just as easily obtain credit from the
townspeople as from the union. He felt
that the non-unionist was in the same posi-
tion as the war-time shirker who is willing
to shelter behind the rifles of those who
take the risks.
Every concession won bjr Labor had been
won by organised unionism, or, at any rate,
by the force of organised unionism acting
on public opinion. The man who was
ready to benefit by these winnings and
refused to pay his share of maintaining them
was a man with whom the genuine unionist
might rightly refuse to work.
Moreover, the attitude of Jackson, the
chairman of directors of the mine, seemed
suspicious. He said, in effect, that he didn’t
recognise unions at all—an obsolete doctrine
in the light of modern legislation. Provided
the men did their work, he maintained, it
was immaterial to him whether they be-
longed to a union or not; he could under-
stand the union kicking if he were not pay-
ing them the union wage; but, as he made
no discrimination, there was no cause for
dispute.
Where Jimmy fell foul with Moon was
over the method of redress. As “Jean
Jacques Junior” Jimmy warmly espoused
the cause of the miners, but advised an
appeal to the Arbitration Court. As far as
he could see, the Court must support the
union. Moon would have nothing to do
with arbitration.
“A young feller ’oo blows ’ot an’ cold in
questions relatin’ ter th’ welfare o’ th’
worker,” he told his audience, “ ’as bin tellin’
yer a.s yer ought ter go ter th’ Court o’
Harbitration. When this young feller’s
lived a little bit longer, ’e’ll cease ter ’ave
such a touchin’ faith in th’ puppets o’
capitalism because they wear ’orse-’air on
their ’eads. I tell yer, th’ courts o’ justice
is only one o’ th’ branches o’ th’ Hemployers’
Federation—th’ decisions are all cut an’
dried afore they get ter th’ ’ands o’ th’
parasite ’oo sits on th’ bench. Th’ worker’d
’ave ter wait fur centuries an’ centuries
before he could get a fair deal from th’
class that gives us all th’ lawyers an’
judges.
“Comrades, yer know ’ow long it takes
ter get yer case before th’ court. Yer’ve
’ad hexperience in that often. Are yer
goin’ back ter th’ mine ter work beside
creatures that a decent Chinaman wouldn’t
spit on, fur a year or eighteen munce? If
yer did right yer wouldn’t bother with no
courts nor no strike, either. There’d be
what th’ capitalistic press calls some sad
accidents up in th’ Iveira Main. There’d
be twelve parasites in th’ morgue. It’d be
an unforchunit thing; but there’d be falls
6’ coal where they was workin’ or maybe
there’d be picks drop down a shaft; but
it’d settle th’ mashinations o’ th’ Hem-
ployers’ Federation an’ its pimps. What
Labor wants is a little less talk an’ a little
more direct • action.”
Moon’s oratory was too strong to be
combated by the printed word. The
miners didn’t murder the twelve defaulters,
but four hundred of them walked out of the
mine one afternoon. Extra police were
ordered down from Sydney and a state of
industrial siege began.
At nine o’clock that night Jimmy was
walking through the bush on his way to
the ovens when he heard a burst like
thunder from the direction of the Keira
Main. Through the trees he saw a blqt
of flame against the black hillside. Three
minutes later somebody came scampering
through the bush towards him. Jimmy
suspected that the explosion had been wilful.
He stepped out into the road to intercept
the fugitive.
“Stop!” he ordered.
The man tried to dodge, but Jimmy was
too quick. It was quite possible that the
man might be armed, so Jimmy made no
attempt to catch him, but swung a heavy
left , for his jaw. It got right home and
the man fell face down in the dust, his
arms by his sides. Jimmy turned him over.
It wa.s Moon.
In a few minutes he revived.
“Dynamite this time, eh, Moon?” said
Jimmy.
Moon made no denial.
“It’s a crime ter chuck a plug o’ dyna-
mite inter the sacred property o’ th’ capi-
talist,” he gasped. “But th’ capitalist can
cast destruction among th’ souls an’ bodies
o’ th’ worker an’ it’s nothin’.”
“How do you know you haven’t killed
half a dozen people-workers like our-
selves?” demanded Jimmy.
“In all great movements th’ innercent
must suffer,” replied Moon. “But their
sufferin’s is nothin’ ter what they suffer in
other times be rapacity an’ hexploitation.”
He dragged himself to his feet shakily.
“Now, ’and me over ter th’ forces o’
tyranny,” he said. “Give them me body
to be their plaything, me soul ter work
out its hanguish in th’ dungeons they build
fur th’ worker.”
Jimmy looked at him. “If you’ve killed
anybody, Moon,” he said, “I’ll certainly
tell all I know. If you’ve only blown up
some old shed, I’ll keep my mouth shut.”
Moon was not grateful. He went off with
a parting sneer. “Yer a weak-knee yerself,”
he called. “I’d sooner meet a straight-out
capitalist what’d rob yer of yer earnin’s
an’ starve yer wife an’ little ones than a
weak-knee Labor man.”
Moon had not committed murder; but
he had succeeded in doing a thousand
pounds’ worth of damage. The winding-
plant was wrecked and the railhead, with
a score of skips which had been standing
on it, was a tangle of shattered timber and
twisted steel.
Two detectives came down and put Moon
on the grill for five continuous hours. They
secured nothing but speeches on the in-
iquities of capitalism.
Half a dozen policemen from the Sydney
suburbs took up their residence at the mine.
Four special reporters arrived from the
Sydney dailies. Illawarra took its place as
the centre of the Commonwealth’s interest.
Moon’s narrow escape by no means
affected his courage. From his soap-box
he continued to put forth suggestions so
violent and so inflammatory that there
was a cry for his arrest. Always reluctant
to interfere in industrial matters, the autho-
rities held their hand. There had been
minor conflicts with strange policemen; the
miners were getting restive, and on the
fifth day of the strike Moon persuaded a
crowd of two hundred to follow him to the
mouth of the pit. Probably two score were
desperate fanatics; a hundred were sincere
sympathisers, ready to fight if injustice
were attempted; the rest merely anxious to
see the fun.
. Des Quirk was one of the most, earnest
of Moon’s followers. He had nearly quar-
relled with Jimmy over the man. Only
recently he had become acquainted with
the literature of revolution and he had in-
herited all the Irish resentment against
tyranny, scenting tyrants in every bush.
He was of a type common to many of
Celtic blood—a man of great determina-
tion, very easily led. He knew no fear,
his hates were bitter and often unreasoned,
his temper was hot, his human sympathies
were those of a tender-hearted child. When
Moon called for volunteers to storm the
mine, Des was the first to step to his side.
There were about twenty men on the
mine, including the six policemen. Jack-
son, down' from Sydney with his two sons,
occupied the offices with Dalgety. The
foremen and shift bosses and the police had
been put up in the sheds.
“What we want is a machine-gun,” re-
marked Dalgety. “They knew how to deal
with these matters better in Russia. That
pestilent brute Moon would have been in
Siberia long ago.”
“I fancy we can deal with them without
either machine-guns or Siberia, Major,”
replied old Jackson.
He felt no bitterness towards the men.
He was on one side of a game; they were
on the other. It was the fortune of war.
He knew well that the present demonstra-
tion would be only a demonstration. The
police were armed and would show their
arms. The crowd probably had not a
revolver among it. Even a fanatic like
Moon wouldn’t commit suicide. There
would be a little hooting and stone throw-
ing, but nothing more. He saw to it that
none of his side but the police carried
firearms.
“There they stand,” yelled Moon as he
approached to meet the six policemen, each
a rifle in hand. “Th’ ’ired bullies o’ capi-
talism, bought like Judas ter betray their
comrades. Those men, comrades, wearin’
th’ livery o’ servitude, th’ badge o’ their
shame, belong ter yer own class; their own
brothers an’ sisters are workers like our-
selves. That livery means that those men
’ave sworn that for the gold o’ th’ capitalist
they’ll shoot down you or me or their own
brothers an’ sisters if th’ Hemployers’
Federation tells them to.”
One of the more heated members of the
crowd had approached sufficiently close to
press upon a policeman.
“Stand back there,” cried the sergeant in
charge.
The policeman had to move his rifle
aside to prevent its pressing against the
intruder’s chest. Instantly he grabbed the
barrel. There was a rush. The next police-
man felled the man with his baton, the
others raised their rifles. Those who had
rushed forward were scared back for twenty
yards and the line was restored. The man
who had caused the trouble was behind the
police, a prisoner.
“Are yous goin’ ter stand an’ see yer
mate took?” called a voice.
The argument carried more weight than
all Moon’s academic appeals. There was
another rush, but as the rifles were raised
the line of attack trembled and broke. From
the back of the crowd came some stones.
Some of them were trying to hold back a
single man who saw red. He broke free,
picked up a piece of an iron casting and
dashed out in the face of the rifles. The
sergeant had instructed the men not to fire,
but to use their clubs. The solitary zealot
did not know this, if he knew anything
save that he was striking a blow for liberty.
Seemingly he was going to certain death.
There was a scamper for cover on the part
of all in the line of expected fire. Within
six feet of the muzzles he stopped, threw
the iron and was knocked down by the
police. There was a groan from the dark-
ness in the rear.
Then a sobbing cry—the voice of old
Jackson.
“My God! Wally!” His son lay on
the broken coal, unconscious, with a wound
on the temple. The second prisoner—the
man who had thrown the casting—was
dragged into the light. It was Des Quirk.
Old Jackson was raving. “By God, you’ve
killed my boy and I’ll kill you!” He rushed
towards Quirk and had to be held back.
Dalgety was cool. “Quirk,” he said,
“you’ll be hanged for this.”
Wally was carried to the office. Messages
were ’phoned to a doctor, to the Illawarra
private hospital, and now they were trying
to raise Jackson’s Sydney home on the
long distance, to tell the rest of the family
lest they should be alarmed by exaggera-
tions and to get one of the big surgeons
by the next train.
Among the crowd the word went round
that Des Quirk had killed Wally Jackson.
The zealots lost their zeal. Even Moon
was sobered to silence. The sightseers made
their way down the mountain side, ashamed
that by their presence they had helped to
create the mob-frenzy which had ended in
tragedy. The three policemen who led Des
Quirk to the Illawarra watchhouse met
scarcely anybody until they were well into
the town.
When Jimmy heard the story he dashed
to Wellington so that his Sydney paper
might not be beaten and then went to the
watchhouse. There he found Des’s parents
with Father Phelan, and left his visit till
later. Through the grill he offered to give
Des any help he could.
“I’m past help, Jimmy,” replied the
prisoner. “Dalgety says I’ll be hung. About
the best that could happen to me. Wally
Jackson, too; he’s a decent chap, although
he is one of them. Honestly, Jimmy, I’d
give my hand now to see him right. I
hope he’ll live, not that I care about my-
self now. Look what I’ve brought on mum
and the old man. I don’t know what the
hell made me throw that casting”
He told the story of the attack as it had
appeared to him, repeating himself over and
over again, occasionally remembering some
details, entirely inconsequential, and ending
each scrap of speech with the refrain, “I
don’t know what the hell made me throw
that casting.”


THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room* from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY—Price 3d.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
Achievement!
DURING the 12 months ended June 30, 1930, the “Daily Mail” carried
725 columns more advertising space than for the year ended June .30,
1929. This is an unparalleled achievement for Queensland daily newspapers.
The other Brisbane morning daily showed a decrease of over 900 columns
during the same period. To show a substantial increase in advertising
, columns, under the adverse conditions which prevailed throughout
Australia during that period, indicates that the confidence of Australian
advertisers in
The Daily Mail
Is based on the sound foundation of the result-bringing power of the
medium. During the same period the “Sunday Mail” carried 4270
columns of advertising space, apart altogether from the advertising
carried by the “Daily Mail.”
Rate Cards and Specimen Copies from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD., 288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch: 72 Pitt St., Sydney. London: R. B. Brett & Son, New Bridge St., E.C.4.
At last Jimmy contrived to quieten him.
“A decent lad,” said Sergeant Dunn; “I’ve
known him since he was so high. It’s that
feller Moon who ought to do time for it.
I’d have lagged him long ago if I’d had my
way.” An application of the Vagrancy
Act was-Sergeant Dunn’s panacea for all
diseases of the body politic.
Patsy came down by the morning’s train,
also the specialist from Macquarie-street.
Patsy looked serious for the first time in his
life. “Thank God I can afford to get him
the best lawyers in the land, Mum,” Patsy
told his mother.
“Ye’re a good son, Patsy,” wept Mrs.
Quirk.
“So’s Des, only for his hot temper,” said
Patsy. “He isn’t thinking of himself a
bit. It’s all about you and dad and Wally
Jackson. He never really meant to harm
him.”
“We must get the lawyer to tell them
that,” said Mrs. Quirk, hoping against hope.
Wally Jackson lay between life and
death for three weeks. Then he was pro-
nounced out of danger.
Wally was out of all the dangers that
beset the reasoning man. His injury had
made him into a child again. His eyes
looked into the eyes of those who loved
him without recognition. Physically he was
as vigorous as ever, his body was the same
sinewy mass which had so often led the
University football team to victory, which
had taken its place in the inter-State
Eight. But mentally, his case was hopeless.
He was taken to a place where he would
remain till time wore out that strong body
and allowed its stifled spirit to escape.
Patsy kept his word and secured the best
legal talent in the State. But the pathetic
figure of Wally Jackson, grinning feebly
as he was led into court, practically an
exhibit, brought tears even to the eyes of
Mrs. Quirk.
The jury returned the only possible ver-
dict and the Judge sentenced Des to ten
years’ penal servitude.
CHAPTER XVI.
The strike lasted for six months. By
that time the effect had spread so widely
and so many innocent bystanders had been
hurt that public opinion forced the Govern-
ment to constitute a special court.
The men won their case, as Jimmy had
anticipated and—if the truth were known—
as Jackson himself had anticipated. They
returned to work, their union having to
make a fresh start, accumulated funds
amounting to thousands of pounds having-
been dissipated in strike pay.
The sufferings of the strikers and their
families had been bitter. Those of the
townspeople and men employed in indus-
tries dependent on the mines had been only
one degree less acute. Jimmy himself had
been on half-time for two months. Then
the cokeworks were shut down for want of
coal. He broke little into his money in
the savings bank, for his tastes were simple
and he was able to maintain himself parti-
ally by writing.
Wellington gave him some reporting work
to do. He was out of pocket by so doing,
for the “Guardian” had reached the limit
of its circulation. But by using Jimmy he
certainly added to the attractiveness of the
paper. Local news items hitherto neglected
were now covered, and Wellington found
that Jimmy—unlike so many men with the
literary bent, including himself—grasped
the essentials of journalism from the start.
He was very nervous when he went out
on his first job, but his report bore the
appearance of confidence. He based it on
the great principle that the public knew
nothing whatever of the subject. He had
persisted in his inquiries until he had
thoroughly grasped it himself, then he set
it out on paper in language so simple that
nobody could misunderstand it. All the
same, Wellington, during the first few weeks
had to point out to him that journalism
is not literature. Jimmy had been, at times,
strained and dramatic. His sentences were
sometimes involved and flowery, rather than
short plain statements of facts. For some
time he had little sense of orderly arrange-
ment. But he listened to Wellington, saw
the reasons for his criticism, and in his
later work turned out reports which were
technically creditable as well as covering
the news.
In addition, he returned to his versifica-
tion. He found that while a poet, like a
pugilist, loses his form by inaction, he has
less difficulty in coming back. On the other
hand, his experiences of late had broadened
his outlook on life. He had developed a
sense of humor, thanks largely to May, and
he had discovered that while there is small
demand for serious verse, the market for.
the humorous and whimsical variety is un-
limited. By the time the strike was de-
clared off and the ovens were marked for
reopening, he was making almost as much
as he had done as a cokeworker.
Still he knew that he was not a source
of profit to Wellington, a.nd refused to
entertain the idea of continuing with the
“Guardian.”
“I won’t say that your work has bumped
up the circulation or the ad. revenue,”
said Wellington, in asking him to stay on,
“but it’s certainly improved the paper. You
must see that, in spite of your modesty.
Anyhow, I owe you a lot for that “Jean
Jacques” stuff you’ve been turning out for
years for nothing; and it’s an insurance
against competition to give the readers the
best obtainable. Stop on with me till you
see something where there’s a chance of
bigger experience.”
Jimmy had his own ideas of how the
balance stood between him and Wellington.
He knew that the editor could do with the
weekly thirty shillings his reporter was
drawing from him.
The Keira Main needed a lot of prepara-
tion after its long period of idleness. The
gas had got into the workings, and parties
were busy cleaning up before the coal
getting could be commenced. Of the four
hundred men who downed tools, only fifty
were taken on at first. The number was
"Instantly he grabbed the barrel. There was a rush. The next policeman jelled the man with his baton.”
doubled after a week, and Jimmy knew that
the time was not far distant when he would
be back at his own oven, stiff and sore and
with his soft hands badly blistered at the
end of the first hour.
Ho was sitting in Wellington’s office
searching the Sydney dailies for items which
might, have a local significance and provide
a hint for further inquiry and expansion.
The ’phone rang.
“What’s that?” cried Wellington. “Yes,
Sergeant, Dunn. What!” he yelled. “Burst
at the Keira Main. Good God! Fifty men
below!”
He replaced the receiver and called up
the garage for a car.
“Write that on a form and send it to the
‘Times’ at once, Jimmy,” he called; “I’m
off to the mine. Let’s see. You go to the
company’s office here, take one of the
apprentices and Whenever you get any news
over the ’phone from the pit write it out
in big letters on a strip of paper and send
the boy to paste it up in our window. I’ll
get on to you there, when there’s a chance
to let you know what’s doing.”
The car pulled up at the door and Wei-
lington was whisked off towards the Keira
Main
The burst had come unexpectedly—the
cause was never discovered. Every precau-
tion had been taken against an explosion,
and the mains and galleries were being
cleared methods which seemingly offered
no loophole for mishap. Then there was a
dull thud, not so loud that it could be
heard at the pit’s mouth, a flash of light
and a rolling surf of black smoke along.the
gallery
° The ‘smoke did not move, very quickly.
Many of the men had time to get clear,
From its revolving face figures from time
to time dashed to escape into the open air.
One dropped after he had passed the line
of safety, to be overwhelmed a second
later.
There were still about fifty unaccounted
for when a hasty roll call was taken at the
mouth.
Some of these would possibly be found in
parts of the mine unaffected by the burst;
but that some of their comrades had died,
were dying at the moment, was plain to
the three score about the pithead.
There was a rush for the life-saving appli-
ances. The men living must not be allowed
to die if their mates could save them.
“Stand back, there, men.”
It was Dalgety. He had been half a mile
away and had rushed back when the news
was taken to him.
“Stand back there!” he cried. He was
cool, the only cool man.
There were plenty brave men there. There
was not one who was not ready to face
the gas on the chance of bringing out a
mate. But Dalgety alone was cool, a fact
i n which he felt a class pride.
“Stand back!” he ordered again as one
G r twG showed a tendency to rush. What
right had they to risk their lives, while he,
their leader by caste and tradition, was
still some yards awayr It was the light
of the Samurai to be the first to die. he
placed himself at the head of the squad,
gave some terse military-sounding dnec-
tiona and with “Gome on, lads, led them
i n tjQ the lair of death,
live minutes later two of the paity came
ou f dragging an unconscious form, the
victim was still breathing and his rescuers
seemed to be in almost as bad a way. An-
other staggered out with a mate snatched
f rom dlc grave. A third came with one
°f . die rescue party who had gone down
before the fumes. Ihe other two, strong
their resistant power, had recovered two
?f those overcome and were themselves
fairJ y vigorous, though physically exhausted
and panting like dogs. Of the rescue party
only Dalgety remained. They waited for
him, but he did not appear,
He s down! cried somebody.
The f moke was rolling out more thickly
now. A lean, scrawny form dashed across
the °P en s P ace and into the rolling smoke,
He seemed to go so deliberately to certain
death - He was awa Y two minutes—the men
watching were ready to swear that it was
twenty and firmly believed it. Then he
tumbled out with something on his shoul-
ders - The y fell together in a heap. There
was a rush to pick them up.
The rescuer was Elijah Moon. The man
‘ he had recovered was Dalgety. Neither of
them showed any sign of life. They were
taken into the pure air and treated,
By this time a doctor had come up in a
car. He placed them in the office, closed
the doors and drenched the place from the
drum of oxygen he had brought with him.
Moon recovered sufficiently to be sent back
by motor to the hospital. Dalgety gave no
sign of life. The Samurai had left life,
sword in hand, as the Samurai should.
As his body was carried down the hill,
the men who had fought him and had hated
him raised their hats to the gentleman who
remembered that he was a man.
CHAPTER XVII.
Jimmy had a heartrending experience at
the company’s office. It was torture to stay
there while men he knew were in danger
beneath the big mountain. When, withiD
(Continued on page


munion Plate, the gift of George 111.,
shipped out to the new settlement of Van
Diemen’s Land in charge of Lieut.-Governor
David Collins, R.N., in 1803.
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
*“* J. O. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: FOLLOW THROUGH
CRITERION: COQUETTE.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
KING’S THEATRE:
LITTLE ACCIDENT.
THEATRE ROYAL:
LILAC TIME.
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE,
AX MELBOURNE.
TWICE DAILY, at 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents
THE FOLLIES OF 1930,
With a Brilliant Cast of Popular Favorites.
Popular Pre-war Prices.
IJOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
ALL TALKIE PROGRAMME.
JOAN CRAWFORD in
MONTANA MOON.
(Passed for General Exhibition.)
ALSO-
THE THREE SISTERS.
With LOUISE DRESSER.
(Passed for General Exhibition.)
All the Best is in the West,
And the best thing in the West is
“THE BARRIER MINER”
newspaper, the Great Western Daily
with the wonderful history.
Such a medium for Advertisements!
The Unconscious
Gamblers
MANY a man who glides
on in a smooth- running
car is without knowing it —
gambling against his own bank
balance.
ft
ft
0
k
S
He forgets that the ultim-
ate aim of lubrication is
protection against depreciation
religiously drains his
crankcase every five hun-
dred miles —hears nothing
suspicious under the bon-
net or the floorboards
gets apparently good run-
ning— and then wonders why
his overhaul bill is heavy !
The evils against which Atlantic Motor Oil is a definite
and positive protection, work silently and secretly.
They are not obvious until after the ten thousand miles
mark. But they are expensively active. Atlantic,
being obviously an exceptional lubricant,* defeats them
utterly. Wherefore your purse rejoices.
% The waxy impurities which cause deterioration in the majority of lubricants have been
r whirled out of Atlantic Motor Oil by a special and exclusive process, with the result
that neither friction, heat nor pressure can break its protective film. Add to this the
fact that Atlantic has a pure paraffin base, an amazing resistance to heat and crankcase
dilution, and absolute freedom from evaporation, and it is obvious that the economy of
Atlantic is exceeded only by its durability.
ATLANTIC
PURE PARAFFIN BASE
MOTOR OIIv
"THE RUNNING MATE OF UNION SUPER SPIRIT ”
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Branscombe’s Glee Singers, returned from
their northern tour, had an appreciative audi-
ence in the City Hall. Country dances,
minuets and a hornpipe were amongst the
glee numbers. Sir John and Lady Goodwin
were present; others were the Premier and
Mrs. Moore, the J. E. Trudes, Dr. Lockhart
Gibson, Mrs. W. G. Pearson, Herbert Coul-
ter and Mr. and Mrs. F. de Little.
There was a dinner at the Canberra in
honor-of visiting members of the Australian
Basketball Association. Mrs. J. Tait pre-
sided,'with Mrs. A. E. Moore and Mrs. Jolly
at her table. Mrs. Moore presented the cup
to the winners, the South Australian team.
Lady Goodwin went to the Y.W.C.A. meet-
ing in the association’s rooms, which w r ere
decorated with trails of greenery and bou-
gainvillaea. She wore black tosca net and
a black and silver coat with white fox
collar. Mrs. Barnes, who received, was in
black lace ; Mrs. Jolly, who was present with
the Mayor, wore maize silk. There was
a pageant showing the club’s evolution since
1855. Girls in poke bonnets and crinolines
were followed by the modern maid with
short frock and crop; representatives of the
sporting clubs brought up the procession.
Community singing was led by Mr. W. J.
Tunley. Rhoda Felgate gave a summary
of the club's activities in the last 75 years
and Elsie Read read the annual report. A
tribute to the late Mary Griffith was paid
by Sarah Wilson.
The first annual ball of the Queensland
Bowling Association was held in the City
Hall. Visiting bowlers from N.S.W. and
Victoria were the chief guests; proceeds go
to the funds of the Australasian carnival
to be held in Brisbane next year. Mr. and
Mrs. George Rees and Mr. and Mrs. J. F.
Chapman received, Mrs. Rees in black and
Mrs. J. F. Chapman in jade-green.
The 9th and 15th battalions had
their dance at Rowe’s. The regimental
colors and groups of palms, with sweet-peas
on the supper tables, decorated. Lieut.-
Colonel J. Hill and Mrs. Hill (in Alice-
blue lace) received. Brigadier-General and
Mrs. Ralph were present.
This clever maid is Ailsa Mackinnon,
L.A.8., who, besides being a successful
painter an d
capable pian-
ist, has just
gained the
viola-solo per-
former’s _ dip-
loma of Licen-
tiate of the
A s s o c i ated
Board of the
Royal Acad-
emy of Music.
Australia’s
first candi-
date to gain
the honor for
this instru-
ment is third
daughter in a
musical fam-
ily, that of
Mr. and Mrs.
N. J. Mackin-
non, of Woo-
loowin, and
was trained by Vada Jefferies. Her special
love is chamber music.
There was grief in Brisbane when the
news came from Melbourne that George
Brooke had died in a private hospital. The
popular singer gave his last concert here on
August 14, rising from a sick bed rather
than disappoint his audience.
WESTRALIA.
r wth.
A stream of glow-worm headlights pricked
the road to Mt. Yokine on the evening of
the W.A. Golf Club’s anniversary dance.
The clubhouse, whence the city lights are
seen twinkling across four miles of bush,
is a perfect spot for a party. A marquee
on the lawn sheltered supper, and nearly 300
danced on the verandah. A big fire _ and
radiators in the blue-carpeted, red-bricked
interior kept warm the toes of non-dancers.
The president, C. A. Kendall, his
wife, wearing petunia chiffons. Mrs. EL'. C.
Reid was in black, and daughter Pippin had
flowered georgettes attached to a moss-green
velvet corsage ; a diamente buckle flashed upon
Mrs. Arthur Christian’s black gown; Marie
Victor wore blue pussy-willow, and her sister
was in white satin; a little cape fluttered
from Mrs. Walter Saw’s pink ninon; tall
Mrs. Roy Saw was striking in black ; Mrs.
L. G. Walker’s frock was mostly silver;
Marjorie Howlett wore blue, Mrs. Harcourt
black; Mrs. J. C. Murray pink taffetas; Elsie
Saw’s frock was of golden lace; black taf-
fetas patterned with gold flowers was Josie
Freedman’s choice; Joy Latlilain’s frock was
blue and silver; Mrs. Doy Forrest’s gown,
with its low-cut back and wee shoulder
straps, was arresting; Mrs. Cam Milne’s
befrilled georgettes were of ankle-length.
Judy Leonard, of Victoria, and Pat
Trouchet were married very quietly in the
Soldiers’ Memorial Chapel. Deep cream mil-
linery and a bouquet of snowdrops and pink
‘carnations were accessories to the beige
i bridal frock. Freda Weir attended in bur-
gundy georgettes'worn under a matching coat
of rep. The . bride was given away by her
cousin, Miss Lily Kavanagli, who wore
tucked salmon-pink moire and .a hat of
autumn tonings. Luncheon followed at the
Esplanade.
Edith' Tonkin, who qualified this week for
an “A” class license, is the State’s third
woman flier. She is a teacher at Northam,
and filled her August holiday with flying
lessons in Perth. Helen Prosser and Mrs.
Jim Woods are our other birdwomen.
To raise funds for Castledare, a new insti-
tute on the banks of . the Canning for sub-
normal boys, a ball was held in the Y.A.L.
Mrs. Wilford Mitchell, president of the com-
mittee, was in black lace and georgettes.
Her daughter Maud danced in black, and
Gertrude’s flowered chiffons swished the
spike heels of her red shoes. Mollie Scott’s
lovely gown was of black taffetas patterned
with pink flowers; Doreen O’Hara’s glittery
satin bodice supported a two-tiered skirt of
hyacinth chiffons ; Elsie Paxton’s handsome
black garment was worn with a little scarf
and a necklet like the coil of a snake; Pat
Lang chose flowered ninon and blue shoes;
Mrs. John Walsh wore flush-pink; and Mrs.
Roy Mitchell chilli-red chiffons.
One of the last of the crop of parties for
Faith Flintoff was Mrs. Cam Milne’s pink
tea and bridge afternoon. Her attractive
home in Mosman Bay was decked with bowls
of marigolds and stocks and branches of
peppermint-tree; both hostess and principal
guest wore black satin. Each guest came
armed with something pink for Faith’s trous-
seau.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
There was a good attendance at the Aus-
tralia Hall for the first performance of “The
Man with a Load of Mischief” by the Reper-
tory folk. This is the second costume play
the club lias staged this year. The last was
in Bulgarian dress; the present one deals
with the days of powder and patches. Pat-
ricia Hackett, daughter of the Moulden lady,
played the lead in a series of wonderful silk
and velvet toilettes, designed by her mother.
Mrs. Mellis Napier, who has quite a reputa-
tion as an amateur theatrical costumier,
dressed the rest of the cast. Since Dr.
Eugene McLaughlin joined the board, the
stage settings have always been in keeping
with the atmosphere of the play. The death
of Professor Strong means a great loss for
the Repertory, whose guiding star he was.
Adelaide is getting in early with minia-
ture golf links. Bert Lennon, of the Majes-
tic Theatre, has secured a long lease of the
Exhibition Gardens, and two courses of 18
holes are being laid there. It will be bril-
liantly lighted at night, and promises enter-
tainment for summer evenings. A material
closely resembling turf has been devised.
Ten members of the younger set gave a
jolly dance in the A.N.A. Hall one night last
week. Chaperons included the Mayoress,
Mrs. Mellis Napier, Mrs. Frank Bonython
and Mrs. W. B. Docker.
Mrs. F. A. Tennant entertained a few
friends on Wednesday to meet Mr. and Mrs.
Tliorold Waters, of Melbourne, who have just
returned from a Continental tour. In Italy
they met the hostess’s nephew, Lawrence
Power, who has spent the past five years
studying singing with Maestro Mario Pierac-
cini, who taught Caruso. As Lorenzo Poerio
Lawrence Power has played leading roles at
Milan and other cities in “Bohbme,” “Rigo-
letto,” “La Favorita,” in the same cast as
Granforte and Lombardi, who visited Aus-
tralia. In his younger days he was a pupil
of Madame Quesnel at the Elder Oonser-
vatorium.
To raise funds for the Children’s Hospi-
tal the motor folk organised a successful
ball at the Palais Royal, North-terrace, on
Thursday night. Prizes, presented by dif-
ferent firms, included gold wristlet watches
and a beautiful silk-rubber coat.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Crowds rolled up to the Autocar Club’s
at-home at the Masonic Hall. His Ex. and
daughter Margaret patronised the show, the
latter’s fairness enhanced by her frock of
delpliinium-blue lace. Captain and Mrs.
Stoyles were in the party, also Col. and
Mrs. Cox Taylor and Commander and Mrs.
S. R. Symonds. President 'and Mrs. Weller
Arnold received the guests, Mrs. Arnold
sporting a frock of black and petunia chenille
georgette.
Hutchins Old Boys held tlieir annual re-
union and dinner at Hadley’s Hotel, where
W. H. Hudspeth presided over a gathering of
about 60 members and guests. There were
speeches and music, Harold Turner, Evelyn
Hickman and Cliff Hughes contributing to
the latter.
Violet Day threw some color and sweet-
ness into drab streets, with stalls set up in
aid of the Children’s Home. In spite of the
dry winter and early spring, violets, japonica
and masses of Iceland poppies made bright
splashes of color, while country produce and
home-made cakes held their usual appeal.
Mayor Soundy opened the exhibition in
aid of St. David’s Cathedral Tower and
Cloisters Fund at the Synod Hall. Many
and various works of art, both pictorial and
culinary, to say nothing of lovely needlecraft,
kept the judges busy. Some of the colored
poster work was excellent, but the chief
interest in the show for most people lay in
the curio section, which included the Com-


W&W26.
PJ
mm
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association Cm
Contractors with . the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
hair
need
N°
HERES
•unuj-
ft
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
SfrcULtms CMEXICANJ
ItkUrud&bdn
♦•REMOVES THE CREY**
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
// unobtainable locally, posted
direct Ui/6), 6d. being postage.
fP
S'
Australia's
Own Remedy
□
EMEMBER when
you buy, the
name Zam-Buk
i« your assurance that
you are getting the
genuine Australian
herbal balm.
Healing, soothing and
antiseptic.
7hnvßuk
WATER
Wherever You Want It
To have water delivered in great quantities wherever
you want it, and at low cost, “Rapid” Centrifugal Pumps
should be used.
Made in Single and Multi-Stage, in numerous sizes from
lin. upwards.
Prices from £4/12/6.
Full particulars and Pump Catalogue on request.
Large stocks of Pipes and Fittings and Pipe Tools also
available.
“DEPENDABLE GOODS SINCE 1860.”
582-592 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE
51-65 BATHURST STREET SYDNEY
116-130 WAYMOUTH STREET - - - - ADELAIDE
532 MURRAY STREET PERTH
ierson£
Proprietary limited
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
an hour, the office was besieged by the wives
and relatives of the miners eager to hear of
their men. They were formed into a sort
of queue and each in turn was admitted to
the clerk at the ’phone.
“Henry Morgan,” he would repeat as he
received the name from the trembling
woman at his side. Then, after a lapse that
seemed eternity to her: “Henry Morgan—
safe.”
“Bruce McCutcheon.” Then the wait.
“Bruce McCutcheon still in the galleries.
May be all right.”
“Michael Quinn.” The pause. “Michael
Quinn dead.”
Whether the men were safe or had
perished the women were mostly hysterical.
Only the relatives of those whose fate was
uncertain, women who were suffering woi’se
torment than those who knew the worst,
seemed to retain their senses. Even in this
chamber of tragedy there was humor; for
instance, the woman who, once assured of
her husband’s safety, began to lament the
chops she had left frying.
On his own responsibility Jimmy sent
away to the “Times” the lists of the dead,
those supposed to have been killed, those
whose bodies had been recovered and those
known to be safe. He dispatched an urgent
wire dealing with the death of Dalgety, and,
when there was a lull and Wellington was
able to speak from the mine, he went up
to the hospital and found Moon sufficiently
recovered to give him an interview.
“Yes, send that up, too,” Wellington had
instructed over the ’phone.
By nightfall, when the special reporters
arrived from the city papers, there was
little left for them in the way of news,
though the recovery of the bodies—eighteen
all told—the scenes in the town and the
mine provided them with readable matter
for two days.
When Wellington came down from the
mine that night, Jimmy told him of the
pitiful scenes around the ’phone.
“Write it up,” said Wellington. “Yes,”
he added, noting Jimmy’s questioning look.
“That’s great copy. Just the thing every-
body’ll read. But don’t put any of your
own pathos into it. Not a word of com-
ment. Let the story tell itself.”
Jimmy wrote a full column and a half
and Wellington put it all on the wire to
Sydney. Two days later he received a
special letter of congratulations from the
“Times.” Their special man had told them
that the job had been practically cleaned
up when he had got there and the story of
the women at the ’phone had come to them
as a scoop.
Wellington saw a chance for Jimmy. He
sat down and wrote a. long letter to the
editor of the “Times,” under whom he had
worked before he came to Illawarra. He
explained that the manner in which the
disaster had been covered was due, not so
much to him, as to Jimmy Packington, a
young firer at the cokeworks, who had
rendered him great assistance, and had
turned , out the ’phone story off his own bat.
He added that Jimmy had been doing odd
jobs satisfactorily for him for some months
and could shorthand 120 words a minute—
which was not literally true. He referred to
the regular column of comment under the
signature “Jean Jacques Junior.”
“I am sending you some specimens. His
work under his name you may have noticed
in “The Ishmaelite” and the “Dispatch”—
mostly verse. He is a great worker, has
educated himself to a high standard and
is ambitious to get on the press. If you’ve
a junior vacancy, I honestly don’t think
you could find a better man. Perhaps I
ought to add that he is an uncompromising
socialist—you will be able to see that from
the stuff I’m sending—but reasonable.”
The editor of the “Times” showed the
letter to the news editor. They re-read the
’phone story and then together scanned the
cuttings by “Jean Jacques.”
“Of course, we couldn’t let him write that
sort of stuff here,” commented the editor.
“But he can turn out his copy all right.
He’s not bad in his arguments. I’ll ask
Dudley what he has to say to some of this,”
he added with a smile. Dudley was the
most conservative man on the staff. To
him was entrusted the writing of the edi-
torials of that political faith. He was par-
ticularly rough on what he frequently
termed the hare-brained schemes of vision-
aries and doctrinaires.
The news editor was impressed. “We
could do with a junior,” he said. “It might
be as well to have a look at this fellow.”
He was anxious to secure a man who could
write, so he nut his very best argument.
“If we don’t jump, the ‘Record’ ’ll be snap-
ping him up sooner or later.”
“Drop him a line to look us up next time
he’s in Sydney.”
The advance was made straight through
Wellington, who sent for Jimmy at once.
“Don’t tell them your age, Jimmy,” he
advised. “You’d pass for twenty-two and it
would be just as well not to let them know
you’re two years younger. Don’t try to
make out you’ve had too much experience
—they know what Illawarra is; but don’t
show a lack of confidence in yourself. The
man who’s timid in applying for a job
might be timid in getting his news. They
mustn’t think that. Don’t talk about salary.
They may try to bluff you into going on as
a cadet —that’s only thirty shillings. Even
if they do, I think I’d take it; it gives you
the opening and you won’t have to wait
long. It’ll eat into your savings a bit,
but it’s worth it.”
Jimmy found the news-editor surprisingly
free and easy for one in authority. He
was not in the least like either Dalgety or
the manager at Grey’s. He had a sense of
humor, spoke to Jimmy as a beginner in
journalism but as a social equal, and used
bad language as if to the manner born. You
can always get on with a man who swears.
Prejudiced in Jimmy’s favor by the copy
he had read, he had been fearful only lest
Jimmy’s appearance and manner should
be uncouth. That fear dispelled, he spoke
at once as if Jimmy’s appointment was a
settled thing, and told him that, while he
would start at three pounds weekly, he
might work up to a senior position if he
showed the office that he was worth it.
“Next Monday suit you?” he asked.
Jimmy was amazed at his good fortune.
He had expected having to wait months
for an opening, even were he accepted.
“I’ll be here,” he announced^
He saw several other young men waiting,
and the news-editor, despite his friendliness,
seemed eager to get rid of him as soon as
possible. He thanked him and left.
That evening he rushed from the train
to carry the glad news to Wellington, and
he walked home thinking over the strange
of fate. His entrance into the
dinkum status —the stratum of life in which
there were comforts and prizes and, better
than all, the right to meet everybody on
the same footing—was made possible only
by tragedy, by the deaths of Dalgety and
the seventeen men who had perished with
him.
Jimmy saw himself again as a knicker-
bockered youngster watching the body of
Old Joe being carried into the yard of the
Royal Hotel.
(To be continued next week.)
Magic.
A grey crane flew overhead,
In sad, grey weather.
A questing crane flew overhead,
Aiid dropped a grey feather.
We brought it in to Lie-a-Bed,
And now they’re off together—
Grey crane and Lie-a-Bed
On one dropped feather.
"I’ve done with pain,” said Lie-a-Bed,
“And sad. grey weather....
I’m off to Spain!” cried Lie-a-Bed,
“Aboard a silver feather.”
N.S.W. '
MARGARET FANE.
Megiddo.
High tumult raged while morning shed low
light on Islam’s stormed defence.
In thunderbolts of screaming lead a savage
onslaught rioted
Where steel’s dread thickets clustered dense.
A maiming blast, a fuelled blaze, an element
of marshalled force
To serve the temper of the days, by sunlit
miles and starlit ways
Our army rode its hurried course.
In file and troop, in trekking line, in
crowded squadron-columns pressing,
It trampled down the hours benign, and
crushed the mould in cinders fine
And woke the vault of glooms oppressing.
A spent sun falling to the sea beheld the
plumed light-horsemen fare
In close formation tirelessly; the flying-
squads of yeomanry
Across the purple uplands bear.
Afar the turbaned lancers swept, a flame of
spears in conquest flying.
Like panthers through the hills they leapt
on Nazareth, ere morning crept,
Strange hosts on Armageddon spying
Through night’s switt course, till dawn’s red
light illumed the dust where Nablus lay—
The stars withdrawn from skyways bright—
a storm of hoofs, a tempest-flight,
Chauvel’s shod corps acclaimed the day.
Glad eyes beheld the sun invest a wid’ning
vale, gold banners streaming
Across Gilboa’s marble crest, on Tabor's
chaste and comely breast
And spires of Nazareth far gleaming.
Oh, cast in splendor’s glowing spell! All
storied pageants past compare!
There ran a tide ere evening fell, a crest of
steel, a glinting swell
Down Esdraelon’s tillage fair.
A splendid hour made glorious! Farspread
in saffron lustre flowing,
Our squadrons rode victorious, their con
duct meritorious,
Their plumes like silvered pennons blowing!
The Turks bowed low —betrayed, beguiled—
before those ranks which swept the plain.
Their flank despoiled, their power defiled.
their blades downflung, their rifles piled
Allah ! —'They lived to war again
With Greece when martial chords awoke!
Yet now they flocked in dumb surrender.
A crippled host whose plight bespoke
checkmate clean; the master-stroke
Of him our leader and defender.
Astride Jenin and round Beisan! An army
fast in Nablus held,
Outranged, outpaced by horse and man, while
far outflanking squadrons ran,
Grey battle-planes its requiem knelled!
Down Wadi Fara’s gorge there sped fear-
routed forces once titanic
Beneath a thund’ring cloud which shed swift
hail, and loud destruction spread
Along their stricken files of panic.
Our escorts, riding full with cheer, the sun-
light on their rapier tips,
Expelled the broken captive’s fear and led
his columns up the clear
Domain of the Apocalypse.
Sad spoil of conflict! Armies, torn, limped
slowly on their course of woe,
While sounding o’er their ranks forlorn tin;
trumpet notes of brazen morn
Restored the fame of Megiddo.
N.S.W.
GERARDY.


SAGS PLUS WOMAN’S WIT
MAKE ECONOMY ATTRACTIVE
-
mm
mi-:
■
m
A*. ..
\V7HEN the housewife replaces the
expensive afternoon tea, bridge tea
and supper items with SAOS served in
various ways, she will be agreeably aston-
ished at the saving she has effected and
the added success of her hospitality.
A few experiments with SAGS and fresh
or stewed fruit, ham or paste, butter or
cheese, or in heating them in the oven
with a little cheese and cayenne pepper,
will enable her to astonish her family and
guests with new delicious titbits.
“Made in Australia,”
financed by Australians,
and produced by highly
trained Australian
workers.
FAMOUS
SAO
BISCUITS
Manufactured by
WILLIAM ARNOTT,
LIMITED, THE BIS-
CUIT SPECIALISTS
of over sixty years’
experience.
IMPORTANT TO HOUSEWIVES ALWAYS ASK FOR ARNOTT’S


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
The skeleton season in Australia comes
round with almost the same regularity as
the gooseberry crop in colder latitudes. At
Mount Gipps the other day the bones of a
man were found in a rabbit-burrow. But how
he ever got there is likely to remain a
mystery. Perhaps he crawled in while alive
m order to get out of the rain; perhaps he
was searching for something—Allah only
knows what; maybe he had dropped his last
three-and-sixpence in the hole and perished
while clawing round for the coppers; or,
possibly, he died outside, and somebody
shunted his mortal remains into the burrow,
and there left him. Another skeleton has
been discovered on an Otago (N.Z.) run,
and before it could be removed for interment
the finders had to chase away a malevolent
old boar who was turning over the polished
skull with his tusks and treading on the
bones. But very few of the gruesome finds
made nowadays equal one which was brought
to light just outside Moore Park, Sydney,
a few years ago. Some time in the last
generation a girl and her lover went out to-
gether one evening and never returned. Nobody
ever traced them. It was presumed at first
that they had eloped, but as months rolled
on without bringing any news their waiting
friends began to imagine that the earth
had opened and devoured them, or that they
had somehow found a grave in the deep
Pacific, and that the waves would carry them
on and on in their ceaseless course till the
Day of Judgment. But one day some work-
men digging in a sand-mound unearthed two
grinning skulls and two skeleton figures sit-
ting side by side with their eyeless sockets
still turned upwards just as they had been
turned when they looked their last on the
starry skies and the sleeping city, and bade
a sudden good-bye to earth. Each had a
fleshless arm still clasped round the other’s
waist, and when they were disturbed the
girl’s head fell suddenly from her lover’s
shoulder where it had reclined for years
just as it was reclining when her fate over-
took her. They had been sitting there under
the shadow of the huge sand mound when
suddenly tons and tons of the , yielding mass
descended upon them and swallowed them
up. One moment they were gazing at the
sky; the next they were themselves beyond
the; stars, and though men walked over their
burial place, and children played above their
heads, they lay there undisturbed until their
A POLITE EVASION.
FOND MOTHER: “Minnie already sings nicely—don’t you think it would be well to
have her voice trained?”
MR. BROWN: “Ye-es, I think something ought to be done with it.” [5/2/’87.]
very names were all but forgotten. When at
last the sand gave up its dead there was
nobody left to mourn for the lost lovers,
Sacrilegious hands were laid unon the bones,
and they were cold-bloodedly articulated by
an anatomist in whose surgery the skeletons
stand side by side, making love through many
gloamings.
, n , A —l .. . .
The average Australian gymnastic girl
is a sun-browned, bony, bouncing voluble
creature with short skirts and large boots
and a muscle like unto that of a male, crick-
eter in a suburban eleven. She is rather
nice to look at, and she is handy when some-
one is wanted to lift the heavy end of a
log, but she is not the sort of creature whom
any sane man wants to marry. She is
too straight a shot with the fire-irons to
suit the peaceful joys of domestic life, and
when she starts to clean out the house with
a chair-leg even a child of Anak has got
to go and sleep in the woodshed. There are
several scores of these young ladies loose in
Melbourne just now, training away under
the distinguished, etc., of Lady Loch, my
dear. They held a mymnastic corrobofee
the other day which the parsonical “Daily
Telegraph” says was attended by a “hun-
dred rosy, well developed girls,” who wore
“white cotton shirts and blouses.” We pro-
test against the game and all its conse-
quences, cotton shirts and blouses included.
Man wants but little here below, but he
wants to get that little quietly, and when
he comes home tired and disgusted and his
wife proposes to box 10 rounds to decide
whether he’ll take her to the thehtre or not,
the chances are that he will give way to
drink. . [l9/11/’B7.]
A shareholder in the Commercial Bank of
South Australia received a cheque for one
penny as his dividend the other day. It
will be remembered that the pious Mr.
Crooks was manager of this bank. Under
the circumstances, we are surprised that
the shareholder in question got as . much as
he did. Mr. with that penny, might
have bought a tract concerning the beauty
of honesty and given it to the first starving
man who asked him for the price of a meal.
Probably he would have done so if he had
not been removed so abruptly from the
sphere of his benevolence to the cruel gaol.
A serious financial question is just now
agitating the usurious circles of Sydney, and
a moneylender seems likely to lose £2O
before the sky clears again. The poor,
smitten creature does business on a basis of
5 per cent, (per month), interest deducted
in advance and things made agreeable for all
parties, and this is the first time he ever
made a bad debt. A country clown with
long legs called on him and wanted to borrow
£lOO on the security of certain deeds, the
loan to be repayable in two years, and when
it was explained to him that the interest
would be £l2O in all he said it looked rather
steep, but he supposed it was all right. The
three-ball man assured him that monish was
tight, and he said he had been tight himself
and knew what it was like, and then he
signed the mortgage and handed oyer his
deed. Next the accommodator explained
that the interest was deducted in advance,
and the customer smiled cheerfully at
this, and considered that it would make
things much easier when the time came for
paying up. But his smile died away when
the Jebusite put on an evil grin and asked
him for £2O. Then the borrower asked
where was his loan of £lOO if he had to
begin by paying away £2O, and his jaw
dropped when he was reminded that he had
signed an agreement by which the interest
was. deducted in advance, and that after
deducting as much of it as could be deducted
from £lOO, he had still £2O to pay, and was
also required to square up the original
advance at the end of two years. He said
lie hadn’t had any advance and that there
was a liar in the shop, and the broker said
that when he had paid the £2O he would have
had the advance all right, and did he want
to sheat a poor old man? The borrower
melted a little at this, and said perhaps
it would be better to give him back the
deeds and let the transaction be off as there
seemed to be a misunderstanding. The
lender said he would give them on
rec J ei P t of £220. Then there was a free
and easy struggle all over the office but
before it was half through a constable’came
in and grabbed the borrower, and hauled
him away to gaol. He got three months for
assault and attempted robbery, and his land
has meanwhile been sold for arrears of in-
forest, and the “uncle” thinks he’ll be about
square provided he can recover that £2O
when his victim comes out of prison Fail
ing that, he means to “shue” him for'it and
he has despondently written off the commis-
sion as a bad debt. It is the only item on
the wrong side, and he looks at it sadlv
every day and says he will chertainlv sro
proke.
We were down on the beach contemplating
the grandeur of the great storm, when the
blue lights of a ship’s trouble met our eye.
There was no boat near us in which to go
to their assistance, and for a moment we
almost despaired of succoring them. Then
a blast from seaward caught our left ear
•*and blew us half a mile inland against a
house. The house and the great inspiration
struck us at the same time. We went into
it and borrowed a wire clothes-line and a
saw, and got back to the shore again. There
was not a moment to be lost now. Above the
roar of the wild waves breaking over the
doomed ship we could hear the voice of an
elder yelling to Heaven for mercy, and pro-
mising to reform his life if it was saved,
and marry her. In ten minutes we had
saWn off our ear, and binding the clothes-
line round the narrow end to make her water-
tight, had launched her on the raging sea.
Fortunately for the unfortunates, the wind
changed and blew from the land. We lay
down in the stern-sheets, and in two minutes
we had the elder on board entreating us to
push off and not wait
for any more “in-
sides” that trip, in
case of being s wamped.
But we had confidence
in our little craft, and
insisted on saving the
whole crew and pas-
sengers, limiting them
to one hundredweight
of luggage per adult
and half that quan-
tity for children. Then
the captain wanted us
to take his favorite
bower anchor aboard,
but we thought we
had enough on, and
we had just acquired
a new facility for
turning a deaf ear to
him. So, with 113
“assisteds,” exclusive
of the crew, a cow and
some goats, we put off
from the ship, just in
time to escape being
sucked under as she
sank. But the land
wind prevailing, we
were blown away out
on the great ocean,
for we could not steer
our ear a bit. Our
water-barrels ran out,
but a violent storm
coming on we ex-
panded our uninjured
ear and caught a
plentiful supply. For
many days we drifted
hither and thither, un-
knowing where we
were. When the end
had almost come we
were sighted by a
Blackwall liner, who took all hands on board
and towed our ear in her wake into port,
where, after having it keeled and scraped,
we fitted it up for sale to the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment as a man-o’-war.
There are dozens of billets to be filled in
this work-a-day world [writes Sappho Smith],
but hardest of all, from coal-mining to com-
putation, is the situation of the woman of
to-day. In a former age, when women wore
lace shawls and blushed at everything and
lived by book, all a girl had to do to be
absolute mistress of her circle was to be
phenomenally virtuous, talk in aphorisms,
and faint at a beetle. Later she starred as
a good housewife, but in the parlor she never
touched the harpsichord and yawned at the
mention of politics, and' still
she was lauded in sonnets as
an ideal woman, and nobody
ever contradicted her. But
the poor, badgered she of to-
day has a hard time of it
keeping up her end of the log
of popularity, for she must be
entertaining, but she mustn’t
ogle; she must talk wisely on
every subject, from the social
question to washing-machines,
but she mustn’t forget to
frown down a giddy story or
rebuke a too-domestically-
tongued matron who talks
shop at table; she must sing
a French chanson in the
drawing-room and then retire
gracefully to make the coffee;
she must be loving, but she
must be learned; she must
hold her own in argument, but
her husband’s word must be
law—in short, she must con-
tinue the toy she has ever
been and ever will be, only in
her present state she is more
cleverly constructed, since
man must have ever so much
more mechanism for his money
nowadays. How often you
hear it said: “Mrs. Dash is
a good mother, certainly, but
then such a fool in the drawing-room!” or:
“Miss Sparkler talks really well, but she
never darns her stockings.” To be a success
as a woman of to-day you must be little
short of a genius—you can’t bring down the
house with an Italian fist and the consump-
tion as our grandmothers did. [l/10/’B7.]
The Cook’s River (Sydney) garden
Chinkies work for 9d. a day, which makes
ss. 3d. a week. It does not pay white
gardeners to gather most of their vegetables.
A white man asks ss. a day to gather peas
or beans. God bless the freetrade in labor
that would make an Australian work 12
hours a day for 9d.! [lO/12/’B7.]
There are quite a lot of places which it
isn’t safe for a lady to hide a letter in when
she wants to keep it private. It isn’t a good
idea, for example, to stow it in the hinder
pocket of her clothes, and the old-fashioned
letter-box, which lovers were so fond of 100
years ago-—the hollow tree in the woods —
has generally a spider in it. If she is writing
to another fellow she shouldn’t oughter, it
doesn’t do either to entrust the document
to a suburban post office “to be left till
called for,” and the lady who takes such
a risk generally finds in the end that it
would have been better if a plate of boiling
soup had been spilt into her bustle; in fact,
almost the only safe thing a girl can do is to
burn the treacherous document as soon as
written. And this moral reflection brings us
in sight of what we have been trying to say
all along. At a certain circulating library in
Sydney a lady was a regular visitor, and as
she came out a gentleman used to stalk in
and carelessly take down from a particular
corner a dusty little volume that nobody
ever looked at. Then he would pick out a
little note from between the leaves, and
after yawning round the premises for ten
minutes or so he would select some gallows-
romance or other and depart. But one day
recently the arrangement went amiss. The
lady had gone in as usual with her note,
and the other fellow had just turned up
outside, when he was petrified to see his
own wife pass him and enter the door with
an aspect of strong ferocity in her face and
all her claws extended. He followed her and
was just in time to see his lady love’s hair
IS MARRIAGE A FAILURE?
JUDGE WINDEYER (of the Divorce Court, reading his “Daily
Telegraph”): “'Is marriage a failure?’ Well, if it wasn’t
where would my salary come from?” [3/11/’88.]
rise up _ slowly and stand on end as the
gorgon-like female brushed past her and
made straight for the fatal volume, and as
she took it down from the shelf the miserable
authoress of the hidden letter fell back at an
angle of several hundred degrees against the
librarian, and lay insensible. The wife at
sight of this collapse rushed to her assist-
ance, and the husband ranged alongside and
offered to hold the book for her while she
lifted the fainting lady up; but she explained
that she could carry it with one hand and
bring the sufferer round with the other. Then
the invalid revived and offered to hold the
book while her enemy fetched some water,
and the triumphant gorgon said she would
just shake the dust off the volume first. She
had only got half-way to the door, however,
when a dismal shriek arose, and the shattered
lady in the chair got up and tottering after
the other collapsed in hysterics with her arms
around the enemy, and asked if she was really
going to leave her in her present suffering-
condition, and then being taken worse she im-
plored the gorgon to put the book on a chair
and hold her up with both hands. This offer
being declined, the husband frantically
begged his gorgon to lay the volume
on the counter, and the librarian, in
a frenzy, urged her to rest it on the table,
as she might get tired holding it. But she
said she was going to take it home as it
was, and when the librarian suddenly remem-
bered that the last man who had taken that
volume out had died of small-pox she onlj
said she had been recently vaccinated, sc
it was all right. Then as a last forlorn
hope the husband pushed a £2O-note into the
librarian’s hand, and told him to do something.
be didn’t care what. The librarian, who
had dropped to the situation, cleared across
the road in two bounds, and gave £5 to the
butcher opposite, and the next thing they
knew the butcher’s dog concussed against
the other man’s wife just as she quitted the
doorway and careered away down the street
with the book and a mouthful of clothes in
his teeth. Two badly broken-up women were
then sent home in separate cabs, and when
they were gone the librarian and the hus-
band and the butcher stood and looked at
each other and said nothing. Only the
librarian winked a little, and the husband
coughed, and after a minute they all shook
hands and parted.
She called up the pretty servant-girl and
said: “I am very sorry to part with you,
hut here is a month’s wages, and I have no
doubt you can easily find a better place.'’
The girl, overcome with grief, pleaded to be
retained, asking if she had not always been
faithful and industrious. “You have indeed,”
said the mistress, “and I hardly know how
to get on without you. But you see—well.
I really cannot discharge my husband.”
BRUTUS.
The man inexorably just
From his stern virtue naught will bend :
He tells the truth—and damns his friend.
Old times, old mem’ries, ancient trust
And friendship move him not a jot.
I love him not.
This Brutus no remorse can move,
With his thin lips of bitter blue;
I hold this thing for sure and true —
Ihe traitor to his friend will prove
A traitor to his country, too.
[l5/10/’B7.]
V. J. D.
A SONG.
Dedicated to newspaper (and poet) proprietors.
Con Ex pres mono.
When the eve is falling duskly.
And the breeze is blowing muskly,
And his voice the poet huskly
In gutturals doth drown-——
More pathetico.
What doth that poet, gnoming
In the dimness of the gloaming?
Tremolo.
Ah me! he waiteth tristful.
With a cobwebbed eye, and wistful,
To borrow half a crown.


The Union Bank of
Australia, Limited
BALANCE-SHEET, FEBRUARY 28,1930
LIABILITIES.
Capital autho-
rised £12,000,000 0 0
Capital issued £12,000,000 0 0
Less: Reserve
Li ability
thereon .. 8,000',000 0 0
Paid up .. £4,000,000 0 0
Bills payable
and other Lia-
£46,760,669 17 5
ASSETS.
Specie on hand and Cash Balances £6,876,969 5 8
Bullion and Advances on Bullion . . 96,336 3 1
Money at Call and Short Notice in
London 589,500 0 0
Investments: —
On Account of Reserve Fund:—
British Gov-
e r n m e n t
Securities .. £1,000,000 0 0
Other Investments: —
British Gov-
ernment and
Austra 1 i a n
Governm e n t
Securities .. £1,353,799 19 0
-£2,353,799 19 0
Balance of Remittances and drafts
in transit, and bills receivable
at London office 3,565,053 16 8
£13,481,658 4 5
Bills Discounted, Loans and other
Securities at the branches and in
London 32,894,851 4 8
(After making provision for bad and doubtful
debts and contingencies.)
Bank Premises, in Australia and
New Zealand at cost, less amounts
written off 286,600 0 0
London Lease-
h o 1 d Pre-
mises at cost £142,304 19 4
Less: Reserves
against same
and accrued
Interest .. £44,744 11 0
£97,560 8 4
£46,760,669 17 5
LONDON, Bth July, 1930,
STATEMENT OF PROFITS.
Balance of Undivided Profits on 28th February, 1929
Less: Dividend, July, 1929
Leaving a Balance of
£386,336 9 2
300,000 0 0
86,336 9 2
Profits of the past Year, after making provision in respect of Bad and
Doubtful Debts, and other Contingencies £1,487,050 9 6
Less:
Salaries and Allowances to the Colonial Staff.. • • £516,689 2 11
General Expenses in the Colonies—including Rent,
Taxes, Stationery, etc. .. .. • • • • 313,754 2 10
Directors’ Fees and Income Tax paid thereon . . 11,859 0 0
Salaries of London Office Staff, Audit Fee, Rent,
Taxes, Stationery, and General Expenses .. 59,706 3 0
Income Tax .. . • • • • • • • • ■ 59,386 18 6
961,395 7 3
Balance of Undivided Profits at this date ..
..£336,991 11 5
E. W. PARKER 1
HUGH FLOWER \-
M. N. HOGG J
Directors.
W. A. LAING, Manager.
S. F. GARDNER, Accountant.
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 134 of the Companies Act 1929 we report
to the members as follows:
We have examined the above Balance-sheet with the books at Head Office, and
have had access to the Branch Accounts transmitted to the Head Office from Australia
and New Zealand. We have verified the correctness of the Cash, Money at Call and
Short Notice, Investments, and the Bills of Exchange held in London, and having
obtained all the information and explanations we have required, we are of opinion
that such Balance-sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view
of the state of the Company’s affairs according to the best of our information and the
explanations given to us, and as shown by the books of the Company and the said
Branch Accounts.
London, Bth July, 1930. WHINNEY, SMITH & WHINNEY, Auditors.
AUSTRALASIAN ESTABLISHMENT.
General Manager for Australasia W. A. LEITCH, Esq.
Head Office in Australia ... Melbourne
Manager at Sydney (comer Pitt and Hunter Streets), G. V. OLDHAM, Esq.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN’’
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
A TALE OF THE EXHIBITION.
It was on the Switchback Railway, on a
rare romantic night,
When the moon was shining brightly with
r : its soothing silver light,
That I sat beside a damsel of a fair and
modest mien,
With a bashful and retiring look as isn t
often seen.
So before the car was started, in my most
effective tone,
I asked her was she not afraid to ride there
all alone?
Then she blushed a rosy, pretty blush, and
said her brother Bill
Had said there wasn’t any fear so long as
she sat still.
I supposed that brother Bill was like all
younger modern men,
And much preferred somebody else’s sister
now and then;
So I said, “Never mind, fair maid, I’ll strive
his place to fill;
You stick to me, my pretty lass, I’ll be
your brother Bill.”
And, faith, she did; for when the car went
rattling o’er the line
With a fast and faster motion, down a shoot-
ing sharp incline,
She clung to me with nervous dread and
screamed a startled scream;
I put my arm around her waist and felt —
as in a dream.
Oh! is there ever any joy to be compared
with this—
To calm and soothe a nervous maid, and
steal a moonlit kiss?
But joys are fleeting, bliss is brief, and,
though I felt in clover,
Ere it was fairly realised, that rattling ride
w T as over.
She bashfully declined again, and said she
must away;
She quickly slid into the crowd, whilst I
was left to pay.
But all at once I missed my purse—perhaps
I’d let it fall—
But next I missed my watch ■ and chain —
and then I saw it all.
I sought her through the crowded show, and
watched for her in town;
But it was all in vain, for she had fairly
done me brown.
Ye good young men who love the girls, take
warning now, I pray;
Don’t try it on with bashful maids, they’ve
such a taking way.
“RED HANDKERCHIEF.”
This story has the uncustomary advantage
of being gospel-truth—which somehow puts
me at a disadvantage. It’s about a woman,
of course —a woman with eyes like those
of a dog straining his chain to reach his
master, and a silver note in her voice that
made even her set-your-teeth-on-edge English
sound like a bellbird’s chatter. For she
didn’t move in the best cream-laid society;
nor in the suburban villa-with-pa-in-business-
ranks, nor yet in that lower stratum about
which there is a superstition that the com-
ponent parts are poor but honest and mamma
takes in washing. “Red Handkerchief’’ may
have had a baptismal name, but I never heard
it. She was the only lady on the Dandy
Jim goldmine, seven miles from Ballarat,
and she and Tom Morgan were “friends” —
an elastic relationship which you can stretch
to catapult lengths with the invariable result
that it fires you out of respectable society.
And “Red Handkerchief” had tried the
social elastic to the utmost and it had landed
ter — we ll, I won’t particularise.
She had stuck to Tom from the day four
years back when she raised him in her arms
when his horse fell on him, and bound up
his head with strips torn from her fluttering
dress. Night and day she tended him as if
he were a petted child, and idolised him
right through as if she were always a three-
days’ bride. And Tom accepted her attentions
and sacrifices after a while in a cool, matter-
of-course way which never warned her of his
cooling off. Her faith in him was pitiful,
and she never resented his careless “What a
brave girl, Reddy!” when at the price of a
broken wrist she averted a mass of rock from
falling on him.
This went on for another year, and then
Tom, in gorgeous neckties and radiant boots,
began to pay frequent visits to Ballarat, and
“Red Handkerchief’s” eyes grew more
solemn than ever, and the boys hadn t the
heart to chaff her, because we all knew it
meant worse than death for her, poor girl.
Then one evening Toin rode up to his tent
with what novelists call a set face, and went
in, and somehow the whole camp was about
waiting to hear a pistol-shot or a woman
shriek, because we all knew that the climax
had come. But there wasn’t even a sob.
Next morning “Red Handkerchief,” with a
face like a corpse, came to the tent door,
and, shading her eyes with her hand, looked
hungrily over the goldfield as if noting for
the last time the untidy heaps of earth
marked by the staring windlasses —the yawn
ing shafts, and the belt of trees away in the
east. At noon she came out with a bundle
in her hand and set off hurriedly towards the
town. I saw her face. It was ghostly grey,
but so sweet, so womanly, so exalted, and
when one of the boys wished her good-day
she only nodded her head silently and passed
out of sight down the dusty track.
A week later Tom Morgan—none of us
ever quite cottoned to Tom —brought a wife
to the camp. And so ends my story. But
whenever I read of those heroic women of
other ages I always see, somehow, “Red
Handkerchief’s” ghastly patient face as, with-
out murmur or reproach, she sacrificed her-
self, even to leaving her lover, and faded
away like a phantom on that hot December
day.
INA M. WILDMAN.
FAITHFUL TO THE LAST.
The Touching Story of a Gas-meter.
The Happy Bridegroom had brought his
Blushing Bride home to his pretty new
cottage in a Melbourne suburb. X have had
the gas laid on,” he whispered softly in her
ivory ear, < *and here is the gas-metei. He
pointed to a box in the front verandah.
That evening the spiders that lived in the
corner of the verandah and the cockroaches |
that came there to hold periodical corrob-
orees asked each other what the strange
object was.
“I am a poor but honest Gas-meter,”
replied a voice from the box.
Next night the listening spiders and cock-
roaches heard two voices conversing in the
box. One sounded like the wind through a
keyhole—that was the voice of the Gas;
the other was hard, uncompromising, "and
metallic —that was the Meter.
“The stokers have gone out,” said the Gas.
“I’m sorry,” replied the Meter, “but I
shall work all the harder and make things
even. I am poor but honest.”
And the spiders and cockroaches heard it
grinding along steadily all through the night.
“Your breakfast is late this morning,
dearest,” said the young wife; “there wasn’t
gas enough to boil the kettle.”
“Never mind, darling,” replied the Loving
Husband; “there will be less to pay for at
the end of the month.”
But the Meter overheard them and, mur-
muring “I’ll look after that,” put on an
extra spurt and got in two hours of over-
time that day.
Next night the spiders and cockroaches
heard the voices again. The voice of the Gas
sighed feebly, as if it were dying. It said:
“The secretary of the Gas Company and all
the clerks have struck, and I’m going to
strike.”
“Sorry to hear it,” answered the Meter,
“but I still remain. Whatever else fails
them, the Company can rely upon me. I’m
poor but honest.” And it commenced to
work night and day from that time forth.
At the end of the month the gas-inspector
came around and looked at the meter.
“Double the average consumption,” he mut-
tered. “These young couples are very extra-
vagant, but this beats anything I’ve ever
seen. Still the apparatus can’t lie.”
“I’m poor but honest,” murmured the Gas-
Meter.
“We’ll shut up the house, and go away
from here to some other country till the
strike is settled,” said the husband to his wife
that morning as he read the bill left by the
gas-insr^ctor
• • • • • »
Years after an old man with grey hair and
a long, white beard opened the rotting gate
of the cottage and sat down in the ruined
verandah. This was he who had brought his
blushing bride to the cottage when it was
new. He heard voices coming from the box
in the corner.
“Why don’t you have sense,” said one, a
gusty, intermittent voice, “and give up work-
ing for nothing? You’re very old now and
you want rest. Besides, the Eight Hours
principle has been extended to all automatic
machines of late years.”
“I know nothing about that,” replied a
feeble, cracked voice. “I’m here to register,
and I’ll do my duty till I perish. The Com-
pany can rely upon me. I’m a poor but
honest gas-meter.”
“But,” said the other voice, “you cross old
idiot, haven’t I told you that the Gas Com-
pany was dissolved ever so long ago, and the
Electric Lighting and Cooking Company es-
tablished in its place? There is no gas any
more; so what’s the use of your grinding
away registering the consumption of what
doesn’t exist?”
“Then what are you?” queried the Meter.
“I’m wind in the pipe—that’s all; and
there hasn’t been anything but me in them, j
except water now and then and a few ear- j
wigs, for years past,” answered the other j
voice.
“I’m getting very old, and perhaps I don’t I
understand these things; but I know my
duty,” said the Meter. “The Company may
have failed, as you say, but that’s no reason
why I should fail. I’m but a poor, honest
Gas-Meter, and I’ll keep on registering till
I rust to pieces.”
“Faithful to the last,” sighed the old man.
“Neither you nor I belong to this age, old
Meter. ’Tis time we both were gone.”
A few days later his body was found in
the Yarra, with the Meter tied round his
neck. He looked very calm and peaceful.
The Meter was still registering.
Creeve Roe.
[“Creeve Roe” was a nom de plume of Victor
J. Daley, the poet.]
The fate of Captain Cook’s ship, the
Endeavour, has now been decided. She was
sold out of the British service in 1795, and
subsequently found her way to America.
In beating out of the harbor of Newport,
Rhode Island, she struck on Brenton’s Reef,
and, although she was hauled off, she was,
on examination, found to be unseaworthy,
and was consequently condemned and broken
up. The Thames police-hulk, which was
lately thought to be identical with the En-
deavour, proves to be the remains of Matthew
Flinders’s ship, the Investigator. [26/11/’B7.].
And lo! she was fair to look upon. And
'it came to pass that she walked upon the
street which is called Pitt, and a pious man
turned aside and lifted up his voice and
spake unto her. “Behold! How beautiful
is the weather.” “Yea, so verily it is,”
answered the maiden. “Did it not come to
pass that I have spoken unto thee in times
that are past?” “Yea, indeed, that thou
hast, for am not I thy wife’s handmaiden,
who washes up thy pots!” (And as to the
rest it is not written.)
AT THE HOTEL.
The tall, long dining-room is filled
With figures all in white;
The punkahs swing; the breeze comes in
From sea, and hills, and night.
At my small table, all alone,
I sit, and eat, and sip;
And surely this is not amiss,
After that dreary ship.
Then suddenly I stop, and seem
To see another place—
I seem to see them bent to me,
Your eyes, your lips, your face!
And all the little scene comes back,
In melody and scent—
That dinner, sad yet sweet, we had
The night before I went.
HONGKONG. FRANCIS W. L. AdAMS.
[B/10/’B7.]


A Cause that Commends Itself!
TICKETS,
1/- EACH.
Posted, 1/2
We pay postage
on a book of six
or more tickets.
No. 7
ART UNION
By permission of the Attorney-General, N.S.W.
Ist Prize, Diamond Star value
£lOOO
This may be your lucky star.
A stepping-stone toward your fortune.
Send for your tickets to
O. BEYERS, Hon. Sec., BOX 3446 R, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Conducted by the Limbless Soldiers’ Assn., N.S.W.,
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
WINCHESTER
TRADE MARK
Revolver and Pistol Ammunition
Hs
A
W
<r
&0
V
at
<9
n
n
'terw*?
— world-famed for accuracy
and power, for uniformity and
dependability. Longexperience
in ammunition manufacture
has shown us exactly the kind
of cartridges each shooter
needs, — and we make them to
suit that need. Constant tests
and rigid inspection insure
each cartridge being up to
Winchester standard. There’s
a Winchester cartridge to fit
every standard make of revol-
ver or pistol. Most of the pop-
ular sizes are now furnished in
the famous Winchester Stayn-
less line of non-corrosive
cartridges.
fdh
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN. CONN., U. S. A.
Always use Winchester Ammunition with
Winchester Arms —they are made for each other
1*
Bonds of the Earth.
OSMAR E. WHITE'S
REMARKABLE STORY OF A NEW GUINEA
CHRISTIAN NATIVE’S STRUGGLE AGAINST NATIVE SUPERSTITIONS.
IF yon would try what sneaking faith you
have in the divinity of man, go into that
great, dark land whose head lies lightly
upon the equator, and meet your forebears
face to face. Go there and consider the
habits of the race a hundred thousand years
ago—back in the age of stone and darkness.
Go there and watch the infant law strug-
gling for life, and the old man Custom wield-
ing the rod of tyranny as he has done since
the beginning of time.
Then if you would find belief in the
divinity to which man aspires—in his many
foolish and his many wise ways—go to the
convent of the Nuns of Mercy at Marienberg,
on the Sepik River, and consider the nature of
their good works ; watch them battle to break
the last bond of earth holding the savage
man one with the brute people of the trees.
* * * s|:
James Carteret Wilberforce was an
earnest and efficient man. Although he
enjoyed an almost universal popularity as
the most capable medical officer Marienberg
had had since the days of German colonisa-
tion, the district officer, the planters and the
traders laughed at him for his ideals and
his personal interest in natives, telling
him candidly that five years’ residence in
the country would teach him better sense
than to sweat blood over “dirty Kanakas.”
The altruism which prompted a New Guinea
M.O. to live partly on native food and for-
go tobacco, in order that he might have more
money to purchase drugs and material for
the treatment of skin diseases, was suici-
dally ridiculous. Kanakas were low racially,
diseased constitutionally, treacherous and
ungrateful; and one of these days they
would stick him in the back for his pains!
Wilberforce regarded these wise ones with
his shiny, black eyes, ran a hand over his
lemon-yellow jowl where the blue dust of
a stubborn beard showed faintly, smiled and
went on working fourteen hours a day. He
did not resent it even when they told him
he should have been “a damned missionary.”
True, Wilberforce found it impossible to
gain the gratitude of a native mother for
saving her child in sickness; the Marys did
not want their children, and would aban-
don the newly-born infant in the jungle
at every opportunity tribal custom allowed.
Nor was it possible to gain the gratitude
of a man for saving his wife from death by
disease. A sickly wife was useless. She
could not work so hard, even should she
recover, hence she was far better dead.
Besides, there were plenty healthy women
where she came from, provided one was
willing to pay the price of a few pigs. On
her part, after the first few months of mar-
riage, a woman hated a husband as a tyrant
and slave-driver, even as the child hated and
feared the parent. The man when sick him-
self was resentful of the white doctor’s atten-
tion because he believed that his village
tamboran could have done much better _ for
him by rattling a few bones in the spirit-
house, and without troubling him to swal-
low unpalatable drugs.
It was not that Wilberforce looked for
or expected gratitude. He worked for his
science impersonally. But to slave, day in
day out, tormented by insects, heat and recur-
ring fever, with no thanks and only the praise
of the amiable, would kill even ambition.
There were but half a dozen people in
the world who believed that Wilberforce had
the material of greatness in him, and they
were the nuns in the coral-stone convent
which lay behind the high bougainvillea
hedge on the boundaries of the plantation.
They, under the guidance of Mother Augus-
tine, tended the slab hospital, caring for
white and brown with equal solicitude, and
taught the girl-children of the recruited
laborers to sew and cook, and wash them-
selves. Theirs, too, was a life of thankless
labor: worse, it was unvaried; yet they
never complained—even when their older
pupils bit and kicked them for some mis-
understood kindness. They had their reli-
gion, you see, and believed they were doing
the work of God.
Wilberforce often spoke with Mother
Augustine in the evening, when the herds
of hump-backed, skinny_ Javanese cattle had
been milked of their pint each and turned
loose to graze on the kunai grass and rank
weeds between the cocoanut palms. Once at
sunset, when the hot winds which rustle
below the steady south-east trade were stir-
ring the scent of frangipanni and jic in the
convent garden, Wilberforce came down and
saw her replacing the bail-palings where the
girls had scattered them carelessly and run
off to “make play” after the milking. As
he stooped to help, he saw that the old face
was drawn with tiredness, and the linen of
her head-dress stained and dripping with sweat.
“You are working too hard, Mother
Augustine,” he said, stacking the last timber
in place. “I’ll be having you as a patient
one of these days soon if you don’t take a
rest. There’s a limit to human endurance.”
She straightened her back to look at him
smilingly. “But, my son,” she said simply,
“you're a fine person to' give advice. You
and I are noted for our application to
work. And there is no place in the world,”
she continued almost dreamily, “where there
is so much to be won.”
“Souls?” he asked.
“Souls,” she replied gravely.
“They have none,” he said, a rasp of bit-
terness in the tone of the words. “They
are animals, these swine you and I slave
our hearts out for!”
She glanced at him sharply and saw in the
half-light that his face was paler than usual,
and that his eyes were very bright with fever.
“I beg your pardon, Mother Augustine,”
he said; “I did not mean to say that.”
She moved her hands in a gesture
peculiarly expressive. “You need more
recreation, Dr. Wilberforce,” she said kindly.
“It is you who have been working too hard.
You should think less of your work and
the natives and lead more of the life that the
other white people do.”
“You advise that?”
“Most certainly! I am not foolish. I
know that to become a nun or a monk
requires not only faith in God and a deter-
mination to do good work, but a certain
temperament. You are young—and you are
ambitious, are you not? You should not
try to live as we do—for work only.”
“Seriously, Mother Augustine,” he asked,
sitting down on an upturned milk-pail, “do
you believe that missionary work up here
will ever come. to any good ?”
“It succeeded in Fiji and other islands,
did it not?”
“Surely,” he said, the old tone of veiled
bitterness returning. “Surely—if you can call
the obliteration of a race success. But these
people are a lower, more savage type. They
will die more stubbornly and more horribly.”
They require teaching and faith,” she
said gently. “A belief in God can save
them from racial suicide where even your
hygiene fails. If our work can weaken but
one of the million props of their superstition
in « a w e will not have failed.”
“No,” he said, staring past her into tlm
fast gathering darkness, “you will not have
railed. But you cannot weaken superstition,
fou cannot; since you cannot hasten by
any means, the evolution of emotions—emo-
tional civilisation. You may give their bar-
barity a gloss of culture and make this
people a race of servants, but you cannot
give true faith to a single one. No more
than I can give to a single one the belief
that dirt breeds disease. I am just begin-
ning to see it.”
“But we,” she protested, “are merely the
forerunners. Rome was not built in a day.
YVhen the white race has penetrated here in
all its strength, the environment will be
altered. I know of a girl who was saved
Bomimc from a massacre after
a hill-village raid ten years ago. She was
taken to Sydney and educated in a convent
of our order.”
And now she’s a white girl,” interposed
Wilberforce—“on the surface. Wears cloth
skirts, does she? Reads the papers? Goes
to mass in the chapel every morning?”
“You will meet her,” said Mother Augus-
tine a little less friendly, “since she arrived
on the mailboat a few days ago when you
were up-river. She will help us in the hos-
■R 1 *" a Bttle while before going on to
the Tura mission.”
.t.“ lt^ il L be interesting” said Wilberforce
thoughtfully, to meet an up-river native
who has been educated in a convent of your
order m Sydney. A good Catholic, no doubt’”
The old nun nodded gravely. “Her faith
has done much for her,” she said. “You
will be interested, Doctor. Thank vou
Good night.” '
“B°°d night, Mother Augustine.”
She turned up the white path towards
the looming mass of the big stone house
where the first yellow lights of night
twinkled. Wilberforce set off towards his
bungalow, chuckling at the thought of a
woman of the headhunters whose faith had
done much for her”!
For all that, he had forgotten the matter
next morning until he saw the girl helping
one of the nursing sisters to wash bad
cases of cus-cus from the ranks of Koppel’s
laborers. Her movements were sure, and
she appeared to do her work with a cer-
tain interest in it, enough in itself to
draw attention to a native. Her hair
though wiry and black as india-ink,’
had grown long and was drawn behind
her ears and tied neatly with a dark ribbon.
Her skin was a pale, glossy brown, and he
saw as she glanced up at his approach that
her eyes were fine and fringed with long,
dark lashes. In its narrow mould her nose
was un-native, but the wide, dusky-red
mouth bore the indelible stamp of the Mela-
nesian. Her teeth, when she smiled at him,
showed unstained and unbrokeu. They were
magnificently white.
“Good morning, Miss,” said Wilberforce
pleasantly. “Mother Augustine Was speaking
about you last night. lam the medical officer,
Dr. Wilberforce. Glad to have your help.”
The girl inclined her head a shade more
than a white woman would have done and
held out a slim, brown hand shyly.
“My name, Taubada,” she said with a
faint and indefinable dignity, “is Lucy
Tomba. I am staying here a little while
to help at the hospital before I go on to the
mission at Tura to learn the dialects again.”
Wilberforce was conscious of something
a m ok l t in her form of address—
laubada. ’ Her English was pure—purer
than his own. Her little cotton dress spot-
lessly clean—cleaner, indeed, than his own
stained gown.
“Even,” he thought, “if they were all like
this, would it be worth while? A race of
servants !”
“I’m sure we’ll find you very helpful,” he
said to her. You are going up to Tura to
train for missionary work, of course’”
t Yes, I’m going to help Father Kummer.”
„ , . Wll [ fi nd the work very interesting.
But it is hard and discouraging, too, for
» a comparatively new one, even
though Father Kummer has been there for
many yeiirs. And the tribes are still hostile.”
help me.” W & Makil girl - That may
Wilberforce doubted it.
“And °f course there are many savage
superstitions and customs to stamp out ”
he went on.
T r if m he £ can b , e taught to believe in Christ as
* a^a ’ things will all go in time.”
Wilberforce thought of the mission boys
—who believed in Christ—and “made play”
3 m “ lute in the week they could; and
would stir neither hand nor foot on Sun-
nny®; at the risk of a thrashing.
1 Wlsh y°n inek, Lucy,” he said,
bor it seems that you are a good girl.
You re not married, by any chance?”
Her face became a trifle darker, and Wil-
berforce,, looking down, saw her bare brown
toes wriggling on the matting. There is
more expression in a native woman’s toes
ihail m any other part of her body.
Next year or the next,” she said shvlv
TT ] "'“ ilrry a native teacher at Madangj
(Continued on next page .)


»
) 9 X %
y
!U
fill!
Mil
in
2
ii
'"Every picture
iff s>e//5 ff s # ° r^
Stop that backache!
W HY
Look to your kidneys!
be a martyr to backache? Nine times
out of ten it is quite unnecessary. Backache,
in common with headaches, dizziness and urinary
disorder, sciatica, rheumatism, lumbago, stone in
the kidney, gravel and dropsy, is frequently due to
weak kidney action. Don t waste precious time! So
long as your kidneys allow impure blood to circulate
through the system, you cannot hope to get well.
Be quick to strengthen the kidney action by using
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills; they will not fail.
When your kidneys are well again, take an occasional course of Doan’s to keep them healthy and active.
A MAN’S TESTIMONY.
Mr. R. Riley, 15 Commodore Street, Newtown, Sydney, says:
“I had serious trouble with my kidneys for a long time and was
often very ill in consequence. My back ached fearfully and every
movement made the pain worse. I was almost crippled with the
complaint and often had to take to my bed. The kidney secretions were
very much disordered, being thick and cloudy, with a red sediment. I
also suffered a lot from bladder, trouble, and my rest at night was
disturbed a good deal. I was treated by a doctor and used all kinds
of medicine, but nothing gave me any real relief. One day Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills were brought under my notice, and as they were
spoken of very highly, I bought a bottle and commenced taking them.
They worked wonders in my case, six bottles curing me completely, and
I now feel splendid.”
Five years later Mr. Riley says: “I have had no return of my old
complaint since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me. I consider
this remedy saved my life.”
TWO SYDNEY
PEOPLE
CURED OF
BACKACHE
AND KIDNEY
TROUBLE.
A WOMAN’S TESTIMONY.
Mrs. S. T. Burrows, 19 Springside Street, Kozelle, Sydney, says:
“In common with many others, I have nothing but good to say for Doan’s
Kidney Pills. Some few years ago I was suffering a lot with
my kidneys, and in consequence was troubled with pains across the
small of my .back and dizzy feelings, besides having no energy for
anything. One day my attention was .called to Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills, and, in the hope that they might benefit me, I got a bottle. After
taking them for a few days, my health began to improve and by the
time I had used six bottles I was completely cured. I am grateful
to Doan’s Pills for the good they have done me, and hope many will
profit by my experience and use this splendid remedy. I never suffer
with backache now, in fact, feel splendid in every way.”
Ten years later Mrsi Burrows says: “I have had no reason to alter
my good opinion of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. They cured me
some years ago, and I am still well.”
w
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Sold by all Chemists and
Stores.
Foster-McClellan C 0.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton Street,
Sydney.
“Yes, yes,”, said Wilberforce, reminded by
those expressive toes that she was a native
after all. “And now, will you please run
down to my house and tell the boy to give
you my brown instrument-case. ‘Belum
brown-fella, knife-in-belly-belong-him,’ he
calls it. Thank you, Lucy.”
During the day he found a little time
to converse with her casually, asking a sig-
nificant question here and there. It was
astonishing to him that in no way did she ‘
endeavor to ape white women. Her observ-
ance of native courtesies towards white
people was downright pathetic in its insist-
ence. Her deference to his slightest expressed
wisli was more than that of a mere servant,
When the Angelus chimed, shimmering a
faint sound through the intense, still heat
of midday, she stood motionless, one slender
hand clasping the plain, black rosary about
her throat.
“It is remarkable,” he said to Mother
Augustine that evening. “I admit it.
Speech, manner, dress—everything. But the
test of the business will be six months’
residence up-river. You must remember that
the girl has the blood of countless genera-
tions of cannibals in her veins. She may
revert to what she really is when the heat
arid savagery of New Guinea seeps through
the waterproofing of civilisation.”
“I shall pray not,” said Mother Augus-
tine, stooping to lift the bail palings.
During the three weeks that Lucy Tomba
remained at Marienberg Wilberforce saw a
great deal of her, and found that she was
almost as valuable a hospital assistant as
were the trained sisters. Her mind, if not
rapid, was retentive; and her calm, reason-
able attitude to her religion was a flat con-
tradiction of Wilberforce’s calculated esti-
mates of native psychology. He would not
have believed before meeting her that any
environment or teaching couid have stamped
out racial laziness, love of show, overmaster-
ing superstition, and immovable philosophy
of “Maskee”! Yet here were those traits
so obliterated that even his earnest and
analysing eye could not detect any trace of
them. Still, like so many men of potential
greatness, he was stubborn in beliefs to
which reason had led him. “An exceptional
case,” he marked it. “And exceptional con-
aitions.”
Wilberforce was distinctly sorry when the
girl went on board the mission supply-launch
to go up-river. She was carrying a little
yellow fibre suitcase, and the big sunliat
shading her brown skin and fuzzy hair gave
her an air of quaint humorousness. The
contrast was ridiculous. She had provided
a new interest for WTlberforce, and he
found her interesting not only as a sped-
men of the “native,” but as a human being.
The half-naked boatboys . grinned impu-
dently at her, cracking broad jokes which
she ignored. One said to Wilberforce, who
had come down with the D.O. to pay his
respects to the mission priest, “That fella
Mary he no good. Big-fella pain fightem
along bel’ belong her all ’e time. Huh !”
“That fella Mary,” said Wilberforce
firmly, “he good-fella Mary, all the same
Sinabada good-fella Mary.”
The boatboy grinned. “Maskee!” he
drawled. “No catch.” Then, scratching
the inside of his thigh with a prehensile big
toe he continued, “That-fella Mary dam’
nigger, all ’e same any-fella Mary.”
Wilberforce sent him skipping with a
cut of his leunda across the buttocks,
“Good luck, Father,” he said, shaking
hands with the old, white-bearded priest,
I don’t need to tell you to go easy up there.
You’ll find Lucy .Tomba a great help—and
great company. She’s got the makings—
which is more than I’ve struck before in
a native. I’d tip her off about the tom-
borans and their power if I were you—
handle that end of the business yourself,
You people can’t be too careful.”
He gave Kummer a bundle of late news-
papers—a great treasure for him. To Lucy
he gave a bright oleograph of the Virgin
Mary which he had found among some trade
goods in a beach store. She had admired
it very much.
So Wilberforce went back to work and forgot
about Kummer and Lucy .Tomba in diverting
a deluge of tasks into their proper channels.
Six months later he remembered her with
startling vividness when his cook-boy came to
him one morning and said, “Bush-boy e stop
sittem around Tura. Taubada-him-pray
catchem knife. Bush-boy him bad-fella.”
“Good God!” exclaimed 1 Wilberforce.
“When?”
The cook-boy said yesterday.
Now, Tura was. two hundred. miles up-
stream from Marienberg, and it took a
shallow-draught launch nearly a week to
traverse the ever-changing shoals and sha.-
lows of the river.
“How do you know?” asked Wilberforce.
The cook-boy said that he had heard m
the night.
Wilberforce remembered the throbbing
drum he had heard in. the bush the night
before. It had kept him awake, wondering
what was wrong. So he took the boy to
the district officer and made him repeat his
story. Beyond the fact that he had heard
the news in the night, he was stubbornly
uncomprehending of questions. No white
man has ever succeeded in solving the actual
mystery of the bush telegraph, which, nine
times out of ten, will beat, the telegraph of
civilisation with news of importance,
The D.O. questioned his own servants, but
could get even less satisfaction. The news
had come through in the iiight. That was
all. A responsible Government agent could
not possibly be. justified, in authorising an
expedition of investigation to . travel two
hundred miles up a difficult river on the
strength, of rumor from a cook-boy who was
a notorious liar. Yet he knew as well as
every other white man in the Marienberg
district that there liad been a fight, and in. all
probability a massacre, at the Tura mission-
At the end of ten anxious days the news
drifted through by word of mouth. The
despairing, worried official was. at last, justi-
fied in the eyes of the. Administration in
proceeding on an expedition of inquiry,
Wilberforce was one of the party of whites
and native police on the Government launch,
although he doubted gravely that there would
be any work for him to do.
Each river village that they passed was
ominously silent, and would give them no
news. At Tura the death-wail throbbed from
the grass huts shudderingly—awful in its
savage, monotonous insistence; awful in its
ghoulish abandon. The mission natives had
remained faithful. So much was obvious.
The bushmen had been beaten off.
They found Father Kummer lying m a
stinking room in the mission house, Ins
stomach wound black with gangrene. It was
evident that he was dying. The great gash
between his ribs had long since ceased to
give him any pain. There was a three-
days-old dressing on it.
He said that the hill tribes, painted for
war, had swooped down at dawn one morn-
ing on the peaceful village. They had been
beaten off a second time only a day or so
before. But as Jocha, the cook-boy, had said,
his wound had been received in the first fight.
And his converted boys, drunken with
victory and an age-old craving, had joined
in the “big-fella sing-sing” of the villagers
and feasted on human flesh !
Kummer did not want to live. Wilber-
force knew that ten years of patience and
conquest of fear, ten years of trust m the
goodness of God, ten years of unremitting,
soul-crushing work had been uprooted in
a single night.
“And Lucy Tomba?” he asked.
“I would have died long ago had it not
been for her. She is the only one among
them who did not forget everything,” said
the dying priest.
“Where is she?”
“I have not seen her for three days—since
she last dressed my wound. Perhaps she has
gone the way of the other mission girls. But
it is more likely she is at her husband’s hut.”
The warmth in Wilberforce’s heart died out.
“Her husband!”
“I married her to the luluai a month after
she came. He was a fine boss-boy, in his way.”
He made Father Kummer. as comfortable
as possible and went down to the village
huts to make inquiries. A lapun, grinning
hideously with great slashed lips, spat betel-
juice and jerked liis arm in the direction of
an isolated hut. .
“ ’E stop other-fella Mary. Luluai he dead.
Wilberforce shuddered. Lucy Tomba was
in the widows’ liut ‘with the women whose
husbands had been killed in the raids ! There
they remained, prisoned with the rotting
corpses which were covered with wet warm
earth; there they wailed and lamented day
and night until the flesh had rotted from
the skulls and they could emerge carrying
them, to use as a drinking-cup of ceremony
at women’s feasts! If a woman defied this
custom, universally and deeply moral among
all the tribes of the middle river, the witch-
doctor would lay a curse upon her in the
spirit-house. She would die. A woman who
defied it was more immoral than a harlot. She
was a wife unfaithful to the soul of her man.
Wilberforce, ignoring the shouts of the
horrified and alarmed villagers, walked
steadily to within ten feet of the widows’
house,' hardly conscious of the foetid breath
of putrefaction which blew from it steadily.
He pictured a brown child in a sun-hat, tell-
ing her beads in a darkness saturated by
the rending stench of decay—hot,, damp,
muggy darkness; eating and drinking and
sleeping and watching over the mutilated
corpse of the luluai; telling her beads —
while there was a clean, sunlit world full
of life beyond the grass walls of a hut and
the prison bars of a custom. So much for
this civilisation which had opened her eyes
to the horror of her race and cast her back
to be the first victim ! Telling her beads!
“It is Dr. Wilberforce, Lucy,” he called
steadily; “you may come out. The party
has arrived from Marienberg.”
She came, gaunt, hollow-eyed from the
terror of three days and nights in that abode
of the living and the dead; and the other
women, skinny breasts scarred, peered and
clawed and spat at and reviled her, calling,
“Faithless one ! She goes to the Taubada.
The tamboran walked behind her, and
calling upon the ghost of the dead luluai.
The girl’s great brown eyes were dark
with fear, and her hands clutched the cruci-
fix about her neck convulsively.
That night Father Kummer died, and she
prayed by his bedside, clad once more in a
clean frock and her hair caught up to the
back of the neck with a dark ribbon.
The party went down river next day to
seek authority for a punitive expedition.
Lucy went with it.
A week after her arrival at Marienberg,.
and under the care of Mother Augustine,
she had regained her health and most of her
old-time cheerfulness. Once more she helped
Wilberforce about the hospital, and he found
that she had forgotten nothing that he had
taught her.
“Well,” he thought, “even if she did marry
the luluai, she was marrying into her own
race. Young blood is impatient the world
over. She did nothing that a white girl
might not have done.”
Then one night the cook-boy stopped her
on the way to Wilberforce’s house with a
message, and, grinning maliciously, told her
that the tamboran at Tura had “made medi-
cine” and she would die soon.
She fled from him panting with fear.
Wilberforce saw great dark rings under
her eyes the next day, and noticed that she
fiddled with her rosary ceaselessly. A mes-
senger arrived from the convent in the night
to say that she was gravely ill. He snatched
his instrument-case hastily and went down
into a dimly-lighted cubicle where she lay on
a small, hard bed. The stamp of death was
on her face. .
He examined every organ in her body.
Their functioning was perfect, though the
heart-beat was fluttering and uneven. There
was no sign of fever.
“What is wrong, Lucy?” he asked.
She only looked at him out of eyes which
were great, sorrowful pools of mystery.
Mother Augustine had taken her hand and
was reasoning with her gently.
Wilberforce worked as lie had never
worked before, trying every physical and
psychological means he knew to rouse in her
the will to live. It was fruitless.
Towards dawn she smiled a little and said :
“The tamboran made medicine when I
left the widows’ hut, and ''the . spirit of
Tomano is waiting for me. Hail Mary, full
of grace, the Lord is with thee!”
At sunrise she died.
Mother Augustine, suddenly become a
very old woman, rose from her knees.
“You will be leaving us soon, my son?”
she said quietly. ~
Wilberforce met her eyes steadily. No,”
he said. “I will not go yet. My work here
• is very interesting.”


5
;
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Wesiinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHCKCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House.” 485 Rourke Street, Melbourne
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
“THE AGE”
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
Established, 1854.
ADVERTISERS!
The Court instructs every Jury to keep an
open mind, and record a verdict according to
the evidence placed before them.
When considering future allocations for Vic-
toria, weigh the following evidence for “The
Age.”
Audited net Sales 122,501 daily
(60% Metropolitan—4o% Country).
Over 96% of distribution home
delivered to subscribers.
Over 95% of home deliveries remain
in the household for reading during
the day.
And over 1,000,000 advertisements
are published in its columns annually.
“The Age’s” dominant note is “Australia
First,” and its effect on the minds of
readers and power for good to the Common-
wealth are incalculable.
Further information and rates on application
to the principal Service Agents in all States,
or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Colima Street, Melbourne.
43 Hunter Street, Sydney.
47 Fleet Street, London.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
%
fdhfd
hfdh
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA'S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.),
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3C Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
tbc mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The “Mercury” is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE “MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
P. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
Cite Hdvmis«r
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Cordon & Gotch, price 1 id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, BW7OGB.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Experimenting!
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary experiments?
Cut waste and
advertise with a
I ‘Result Bringer.”
The
Telegraph ”
((Brisbane)
Has proved itself over
58 years a good “Result
Bringer” for all adver-
tisers.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Representative:
N. L. ROBERTS,
Country Press Co-op. Co. of Aust., Ltd.,
Barrack Street. Sydney.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
i free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Q digedtioe
caVtectwe,iestotatwe,
and amative
medicine ,
facftaffl*
"^PMd
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
<&
\
FOR 87 YEARS
“The Examiner” has been the trusted Friend of the Family
in Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in
Tasmania, and is still the Family Newspaper.
PULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
Full information. Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from W. R.
ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 73-75 Paterson Street, Launceston;
M. S. ALLAN, 426 National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins Street, Melbourne ;
W. G. DOUGAN, 726 Herald Building, 66 Pitt Sti*eet, Sydney.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
feuLletia
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months from ....
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
fdh
fhf
hfd
»»
iVfl /
«°°
s®
e
#•’
# s -
.•' .• • ' a} o **’
.••* . • '
■'■ .•• • ' (V^ ce .
• ' nltf* At. 0 '
.•■ .* V° .
• ’ , ot '


hfdh
NEW CARS THAT KEEP FAITH
WITH A GOOD OLD NAME
Dodge Brothers policies of to-day and
Dodge Brothers policies of fifteen years
ago are identical in their adherence to
one primary principle —to build better
motor cars as efficiently and economi-
cally as it is possible to build them.
Dodge Brothers cars, the Sixes and the
Eight-in-Line, are outstanding values
not simply because they are low-priced,
but because there is in them the good-
ness and soundness that the
world learned as long as
fifteen years ago to associ-
ate with the Dodge Brothers
name.
/
m
7
• * *.*
s «
d
jn
-a
wa
IS
Will '
mtfrH
Ht
... *\S
--aiiasOiJ]
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales Harden and Johnston, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria . Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane
South Australia .... Waymouth Motor Company, Ltd., Adelaide
Western Australia .... Winterbottom Motor Company, Ltd., Perth
Tasmania .. .... Co-operative Motors, Ltd., Hobart
