

cttjcfoyQ vy£
tv
f V
8 s
V.
3
o
%
ft
B
a
"HUM A
in i
i »
■<MJ
ii u .
I
On the shores of Port Waratah, close to Newcastle, New South Wales, there
existed for centuries an unhealthy, unsightly swamp.
When the Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Ltd., decided, in 1912, to engage
in the production of iron and steel, this spot was selected, on account of its
deep-sea frontage, as a suitable spot for the establishment of the works. By
the outbreak of the war the construction of the works was well advanced,
and the Government and people of Australia were consequently able to look
forward with confidence to the maintenance of railway communications and
the continuance of manufacturing operations.
The swamp had produced nothing—the Steel Works, which were taking its
place, were relied upon to produce sufficient iron and steel for the industrial
security of Australia.
After the establishment of the industry the first
thought was naturally for National Australian needs.
The Australian Railways required rails and fishplates—
engineering workshops needed iron and steel in various
forms to enable them to keep the manufacturing and
mining industries going
These requirements were carefully studied, and the
necessary supplies were produced, with the result that
the wheels of Australian Com-
merce and Industry were kept
moving, and employment given
to the many thousands of
workers.
f
r
yf,
S
%
*JAe Second PAapiep
But there were other materials required in Australia —the
needs of the great Primary Industries next came under
review. As the production and distribution of these articles
required specialised handling, it was decided to operate through a
subsidiary company, Rylands Bros. (Aust.), Limited, whose works
were established adjoining the Steel Works at Newcastle.
“WARATAH” FENCING WIRE, “WARATAH” BARBED
WIRE and “WARATAH” WIRE NETTING were the first lines
turned out. These were of the very highest grade, comparing to
advantage with any similar articles produced in any part of the
world. These articles were eagerly welcomed by primary pro-
ducers, their sterling quality at once recommending them.
The Management of the Newcastle Works were, however, not yet satisfied. They saw that, year after year,
hundreds of miles of fencing were destroyed by bush fires. Could this great loss be prevented? Why not
steel fence posts?
No sooner was the question raised than steps were taken towards its solution. The posts required must be exceptionally
strong, easily erected, not too heavy, and with a lifetime of service before them. They must be so constructed that the
fiercest bush fire would not harm them. After many experiments all these requirements were fulfilled, and primary producers all
over the Commonwealth are now using WARATAH “B.H.P. STAR” STEEL POSTS, which are absolutely safe from fire, will not
rot, are impervious to white ants, require no postholes, do not need to be bored, do away with wedges or ties, and obviate the
necessity for ramming the posts, or for insuring fences against fire.
The “WARATAH” STEEL POSTS, which are prepared exclusively from Newcastle “8.H.P." Steel, are probably the greatest boon
yet enjoyed by the man on the land. They have been made possible by the establishment of the Steel Works at Newcastle, and by
the skilled local knowledge of their managers.
The latest product for landowners is the FLEXO STEEL DROPPER, which is unbreakable, fireproof and rustproof. It is flexible,
easy to fix and can be attached to any existing fence. It is specially suited for use with the “Waratah ’’Steel Posts.
The Newcastle Steel Works give employment to thousands of Australian workers, enable Australian Railways to be run, help Aus-
tralian engineers and manufacturers, and assist primary producers to conduct their operations efficiently and economically.
THE PROGRESS AND PROSPERITY OF AUSTRALIA
ARE CLOSELY LINKED UP WITH THE NEWCASTLE IRON
AND STEEL INDUSTRY.
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO. LIP
0 a m H IRON and steel masters.
BRANCH OFFICES-—SYDNEY: 28 O’Connell Street. ADELAIDE: 28 Franklin Street. PERTH: William Street
LONDON: 3 Gt. Winchester Street.
WORKS—Iron & Steel Works, Newcastle, N.S.W. Wire Mills: Rylands Bros. (Aus.), Ltd., Newcastle. Ironstone Quarries:
Iron Knob, S.A. Limestone Quarries: Devonport, Tas.
MELBOURNE
d
ď
The Bulletin
e
Vol. 51.—N0. 2615.
Wednesday, March 26, 1930.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


'VW'RITE for the Library Catalogue and
** terms, and lists on ail subjects, which
will be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
LEARN BOOK-KEEPING BY POST!
STOTT’S CAN TRAIN YOU
In your own home: Accountancy, Mercantile.
Book-keeping, Station Book-keeping, Farm
Book-keeping. Send this Coupon for full par-
ticulars
To STOTT’S, 100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
My Name
My Address
58312
B_YSAGHT T
o
.AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght's Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
w
L
- Aid
•«w 3
THE WELL-GROOMED AUSTRALIAN
;; uses a
ROLLS RAZOR
The One Blade British -made Safety
that strops and hones itself, and
carries the manufacturer’s guarantee
for five years.
đ
Amazing
Tonic Puts
You *On Your
Toes ’ in a
few Minutes
IpHH
55SS
Hi
George O’Brien, “ Fox ”
hero, muscle - monarch
of the movies, in a
fighting pose for
“ Cream of Yeast
No waiting \\uh “Cream ot least ' i ifou teet
better at once. “ Cream of Yeast ” relieves
Indigestion in about 3 minutes, Headaches in
4 minutes, Dyspepsia in 8 minutes. Steadies
i\ervc:> in iU minuter. lr\ a ootut. Cioou tor
women as well as men Satisfaction or money
back guaranteed. All Chemists, 24 tablets, 1/11,
48 for 3/6 T'V this reliable tonic to-day !
r
f
fpu*
an<,
POWDER 1-
In
\ -
( V /
:vi V
V '■
w
m
pte
Kills Flies and Insects
Instantly.
Sold everywhere, or forward
2/- or 1/- in stamps to
Hudson’s Eumenthol
Chemical Co., Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
The Red Page
Novel Notes and Exclamations
Had a Board of Pedants read 275 manu-
script novels, nine-tenths from the pens of
unpractised writers, the learned gentlemen
by this time would have been hammering
with all their might at the gates of Bed-
lam.
The ingenious spelling achieved by the
combined efforts of writer and typist, the
dense fog of confusion between “I” and
“me,” “he” and “him,” “she” and “her”;
the remarkable agility of “only”—never
quite sure of its place—the sneaking uncer-
tainty of “who” and “whom,” and the host
of other grammatical quiddities would have
done their fell work with the pedant.
But counting pedantry out it is interest-
ing to note a few of the oddities and short-
comings of this library.
Before all else let me gibbet that wretched
word “emerge.” I have been watching it
for years, and every year it has multiplied
exceedingly. Once a man used to come out
of a room. He rarely does so nowadays;
he “emerges.” He emerges from his
mother’s womb, from a tram, a ’plane or a
parachute. One amateur even got'him to
emerge “into” a room. God wot the end
of it!
Another word I have noticed on the down-
ward path is “intrigue.” Not one but dozens
of the budding novelists thought they were
wanting in literary style if they did not
crowd in somewhere that they were “in-
trigued” by a thought, an action, a spec-
tacle or some dubious behavior. In the
days of Victoria to intrigue meant to per-
plex or render something intricate. To-day
it simply means to interest a person or
attract him ; unless you are a Philistine, you
never say “Brown-Smith’s picture interested,
me,” but always it “intrigued” me. These
little bastards are very annoying.
Then I think some of our young writers
might be more elegant in their figures of
speech. I don’t like the word “elegant,”
our American cousins have abused it so,
but here it seems to fit. To say that a
lover “sighed like a punctured balloon”
well, it isn’t quite “elegant.” Or to say of
a heroine that she was “a graveyard of dead
hopes” may be true, but it isn’t “elegant.”
A few others I remember were more color-
ful: “A silver bell tinkled in her throat”
and “the embrace of the infatuated lover
shuddered the red sunbeam that sought
them out.” I don’t know what the latter
means; but does that matter? It at least
sounds more “elegant” than “she dragged
his ear near to her mouth.’.’
If we must have slang, and it seems we
must, let it be our own slang, the stuff we
grow for ourselves. This remark is promp-
ted by the quite numerous instances where
U.S.A. slang expressions have been sprinkled
into the text of Australian writers. There
is a trans-Atlantic expression that is very
rapidly gaining ground in Australia: “Mr.
Smith, meet Mr. Brown.” I loathe it. Our
formal English introduction may be a bit
‘stiff, but it leaves you where you are until
you know something about Brown. The
expression blurred the pages of quite a
number.of these novels.
It is wonderful how many young writers
set out to write about places and matters
concerning which they have the 'scantiest
second-hand knowledge. Over and over
young folk of the novelist’s community, in
a hurry to be married, did so by “special
license.” In Australia there is no such
thing, though there is a tradition that in
the far-back past a N.S.W. bishop did on
one occasion usurp the right of Lambeth
in that direction. In the following instance
—I am sure the author must have been a
lady—she, having created a swaggie as a
character necessary to her plot, described
him as stirring his billy tea “with a sap-
ling.” Ladies seem, also, to be rather
dubious about sex-distinctions in animals;
consequently, they occasionally perform,
for them, rather extraordinary acts. Finally,
I do not know who was responsible for this
classic allusion, a man, a woman or a typist
(sex to me unknown) : “She was long
and dark, imperious and of exquisite build,
a venerable Aphrodite.”
Perhaps it is easier to write in stilted
phraseology than with a flowing pen. How-
ever that may be, some of the novels moved
on stilts from start to finish. Fancy a
couple, asking the paternal consent to be
married, having to face this: “Though you
both desire to consummate your love, you
do not possess the means to set up a home
and participate in those light extravagances
which should be the accompaniment of a
newly-wedded life.”
The moralist in the novel is a very
tedious person who rarely has anything
new to say and says it at great length.' hold-
ing up the action of the'plot, if there be
any, and greatly irritating the reader.
There were quite a number of these moral-
ists in the recent competition, some even
working on a text. One declared: “God
who created the nations and built them
knew wdien He was distributing religions
what He was about.” I wonder if He did!
I have not space to give in detail the
results of an analysis that could be made
of the characteristics of many of the per-
sonages in these novels. Eyes, for example.
Can anyone explain why there should be a
fiction fashion for green eyes in heroines?
Such a number of them; green eyes, sea-
green eyes, brown-green eyes! These hero-
ines were frequently given red hair—Titian
for preference. The men did not fare as
well in the dealing out of eyes. Here is
one unfortunate fellow described as having
“eyes like a fish and hands like a lump of
dead snake.” He has my sympathy—it
was a woman dealt that out.
T. B. CLEGG.
Lawson’s Bush
Winifred Hamilton’s Lawson-Rudd gen-
eralisation (R.P. 19/2/’3oj is, like most
generalisations, too general to be accurate.
Lawson isn’t wrong because Steele Rudd
is right. They both knew their Bush inti-
mately. Rudd’s is the Bush of the coastal
cattle stations and selections; Lawson’s
bushmen refer to that area as “inside.”
What Winifred Hamilton hasn’t realised
is that there is Bush and Bush. Also there
are bushmen and bushmen. The “true
bushmen” who find Lawson “not in tofieh”
are not in touch themselves—with that type
of Bush life. The Bush isn’t all gallop-
ing horses. Winifred Hamilton may doubt
my assertion that I have known bushmen
who couldn’t ride. There are men out
back who never take a job except “on a
horse”; there are others who work only
“on the ground”—yard-building, fencing,
tank-sinking, shed-work, etc. Those are
Lawson’s men. They sometimes rise to a
pack-horse, but often enough he turns out
a steeplechaser, and hops the counter, and
they pad it again, quite resignedly. I
think Mitchell had a pack-horse or two in
his time (something a bit aged and steady);
and Macquarie and one or tvyo others, 1
fancy, liked a good mount under them
(preferably someone else’s); but most of
the coterie wore Prince Alberts and
“walked it off” when, the slate was full on
both sides.
No, Lawson was right, and Steele Rudd
is right—and Winifred Hamilton is right
when she directs us to look for Rudd’s
pathos as well as his humor; the fact being
that the elements of tragedy and comedy
are pretty much the same. The “On Our
Selection” sketches are very true and very
tragic. I know, because I’m on a selection
myself.
J. P. MCK.
The Bard to the Birdie
God-provided woodland singer,
Pity me—a singer, too !
Editors and stern accountants
Bring no power to bear on you.
Gaily chiming through the forest:
Drink and meat, and all you wear,
Speckled, black or purple feathers
Never constitute a (rare.
I, alas, an attic-dweller.
Chant too often, without pay.
Staves immortal. . . .greater even
Than Ta-ra-rq-boom-dc-ay.
Yet would I change places with you
(Precious chit of minstrelsy!)
On the off-chance I might lay' my*
Self an egg or two for tea.
N.S.W.
II. McC.
The Drama as a Pacifist Agency
According to London papers, the author
of “Journey’s End” is to be given
a knighthood “for his services to the cause
of pacifism.” How absurd! There is not
a line or a situation in “Journey’s End”
which is likely to disgust anyone with
militarism. This play is no different, in
the essentials, from a war-drama of the
Jingo era. It has a hero, a love interest
(though we do not see the lady), a heavy
father, a villain, and a couple of comedians.
Indeed, its artistic balance is upset
by the author’s adherence to tradi-
tion. Rankers who got commissions
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


"Truth in Advertising Anthony Horderns' name in an advertisement is a full
guaranteed that every word, price and illustration it contains is strictly correct.
mm
ifA Wm
m
U
m
fife©
m
zys:
! m
u
" s;
is*
esam
mm
M
m<
WM
%
m
mm
m
A,
!k ! M\
1
m
f
H
i
W
whether you’re
coming' here —
or going' there
No matter where you’re travelling you’ll certainly need
luggage. We have probably one of the most compre-
hensive, therefore one of the most interesting, travel-
goods departments in Sydney. The merchandise is not
only handsome, splendidly-made and thoroughly
dependable, but it is very sensibly priced. It would
be worth your while to come in and see what we have.
d
Pure Wool Rug, 21/-
Here is a rug that may be depended
upon to be a good companion any-
where—on the steamer, the train, in
the car or in your room, where it may
be used for an extra bed covering. It
is of pure wool in a wide range of
attractive patterns and designs that are
woven right through the rug. Ends
are fringed. Size 60in. x 72in.
Price
21/-
Cheviot Finish Rug, 27 7 6
Unquestionably one of the sturdiest
rugs we have in stock, as well as one
of the handsomest and most useful.
It will stand hard service for years and
years and will retain its good looks
and not wear thin. It is of pure wool
with Cheviot finish and may be had in
an unusually wide range of striking
patterns; fringed ends. Size, 60in.
x 80in.
Price
27/6
Merino Rug, 42 7
No rug could be softer or fleecier than
this one of fine Pure Merino Wool. It
has a reversible pattern with plaid
effect on one side and plain or faint
over-check design on the other.
Newest colorings are obtainable, and
of course the ends are fringed.
60 x 72 60 x 80
42/- 507-
Sizes, in.
Prices .
Other qualities from 17/6 to £7/7/-
Leather Suit Case, 45/-
Made from solid Cowhide; specially
selected; free from blemishes of any
kind; lined with Rexine.
Sizes, in., 20 22 24 26 28
Prices, 37/6 42/- 45/- 48/6 52/6
Superior quality case lined with canvas.
Prices, 46/- 50/- 55/- 60/- 65/-
Fibre Suit Case, 8 9
Strong fibre suit cases made from Dark
Brown Swedish Fibre; metal frame
round lid and body of case; two strong
locks; eight capped corners; lined
throughout.
Sizes, in... 20 22 24 26 28
Prices 7/3 8/- 8/9 9/3 10/-
Vulcanised Fibre—
Prices 16/6 18/- 19/6 21/- 23/-
Kit Bag, 36/-
Strapped Kit Bag, made from Genuine
Cowhide, nicely grained. It has an
exceptionally well-constructed frame.
Cloth which lines the bag is accurately
fitted. There are two strong straps
right around bag.
Sizes, in.
Prices .
20 22 24 26
32/6 36/- 39/6 43/6
(Dept., Ground Floor. We pay carriage on rugs only.)
ď
(The Senior Store)
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


Pontiac’s individual beauty
creates pride ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ its
recognised reliability ensures
o<wner*satisfaction ♦
ftO 1
*
FROM the day he takes delivery, the Pontiac
owner has reason to congratulate himself
upon the wisdom of his choice.
He knows that Pontiac’s individual beauty —so
unlike that of any other car —wins recognition
and admiration wherever he may go. He feels
pride in his possession of a motor car that main-
tains its distinction even in assemblies of auto-
mobiles of the highest price class.
And with this pride in Pontiac’s appearance
he has the satisfaction of knowing that he has a
car whose reliability is remarked upon through-
out the entire motor trade .... a car that will
serve him faithfully month after month and year
after year. He finds, too, that Pontiac’s freedom
from trouble and lack of need for repairs result
in a very low cost of maintenance.
There is a Pontiac dealer near you who will
be glad to demonstrate and to show you the
several attractive body styles. He will also ex-
plain the value of the General Motors’ Warranty,
and tell you of the convenient purchase scheme
available under the G.M.A.C. Terms Plan.
GENERAL MOTORS (Australia) PTY. LTD.
Brisbane • Sydney • Melbourne - Adelaide - Perth
m
Outstanding features
that establish the
Pontiac’s supremacy
1. A 200 cubic-inch L-head engine.
2. The Harmonic Balancer.
3. The G-M-R cylinder head.
4. The cross-flow radiator.
5. Automatic Temperature control.
6. Fully counter-weighted crankshaft.
7. Aeroplane-type interchangeable bronze-
backed bearings.
8. A 14 inch carburettor, including an
internal economizer and an accelerat-
ing pump.
9. A petrol pump, in place of the con-
ventional vacuum tank.
10. Special patented expansion-type piston
pins.
11. Full-pressure lubrication.
12. Crankcase ventilating system.
13. Internal-expanding 4-wheel service
brakes of the most efficient type.
14. Special moulded, non-squeak brake
bands. Positively no squeaking when
stopping.
15. Smart, specially designed bodies.
16. Flaring mudguards —70 inches between
outer edges.
17. Unusually high radiator of distinctive
design.
18. VV type windshield on closed bodies.
PONTIAC
it’s a GENERAL MOTORS car —look inside and note the difference !


WMCff£STER
TRADE MARK
Make Sure of lour Game
WINCHESTER shot guns and Winchester
weatherproof shot shells are great game
getters.
Whether you are shooting for
game or at the traps, you will find a
Winchester Shot Gun a dependable
team-mate. Perfect balance—Safe-
Strong—Hard-hitting. Their satisfy-
ing shooting qualities have
made them favorites
the world over.
—j
f&KSfr
J^SEft
«tepe^.
&
&
SK
<2ck *
nMS
Model 12. Light,
strong, the “perfect
repeater.” Hammerless
take-down, 12, 16 and 20
gauge.
Model 97. A six-»shot hammer
repeater of world wide-popularity.
12 gauge only.
Model 41. Single Shot. 410 bolt
action shot gun.
With Winchester perfect pattern shells
they make the ideal shooting combination.
Leader —Repeater Speed Loads —Repeater
—Ranger—Nublack.
For sale by dealers everywhere.
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN.. U. S. A.
đ
Always use Winchester Ammunition with
,Winchester Arms —they are made for each other
d
in the Imperial army were not like
poor Trotter, as a rule. Thousands of
Diggers who met such officers will agree
that their trouble was, rather, a slightly
overdone dignity and gentility. The
average “regular” general was much easier
to get on with than one of them.
Also there was no reason why Hibbert
should have been dirty-minded as well as
cold-footed except the dramatist’s desire
to present the conventional undesirable of
melodrama —one without a redeeming
characteristic. In life, of course, heroes are
no more moral than cowards.
The dug-out is simply a variant of the
beleaguered fort of the days when the world
thought of war in terms of Indian tribal
risings. When it is blown in we do. not
mourn for the inmates. Those who are
old reverence, perhaps envy, them; the
generous young are exalted by the thought
that some day they may be privileged to
show similar courage and self-sacrifice.
“Journey’s End” is an epic of valor, and
since valor is still the most prized of virtues
in man, woman and beast, it is war-propa-
ganda of an effective kind. Even the enemy
helps to show front-line warfare as the
splendid and inspiring thing it unfortu-
nately is. How soul-stirring is that moment
when Osborne tells young Raleigh of the
German officer who, when some Tommies
were dragging a wounded comrade across
No Man’s Land, stood up in his trench,
held his men’s fire, and shouted “Carry
him!” War will never be discredited while
it, is associated with such sublime char-
acters; men who, whatever their race, agree
in Newbolt’s words
To set the cause above renown,
To love the game beyond the prize
To honor, while you strike him down,
The foe that comes with fearless eye’s.
The kind of play which would disgust the
public with war will never be produced.
A salutary one might be written round
A. P. Herbert’s beautiful book “The Secret
Battle.” Most of the action would take
place in France. The chief characters
would be Harry, the boy-hero; his wife;
Philpott, the 0.0., and Burnett, the adjutant
(villains). Harry incurs the dislike of the
C.O. and adjutant, is given a dangerous job
when his nerves are at their worst, dashes
panic-stricken into a dug-out, mislays his
men and is shot for cowardice. Herbert
vouches for the truth of his story; Harry
was one of his friends.
C. E. Montague’s “Honors Easy” would
do more for pacifism, if played as, a
comedy, than a thousand “Journey’s Ends.”
It shows how many, if not most, decora-
tions were won. The chief characters are
two influential young staff officers. One is
a cynic, the other a solemn humbug. Both
pile up D.S.O.’s and M.C.’s without going
near the line. Then the cynic discovers
that the further he is from the front the
more honor he is awarded, and revolts his
friend by announcing with caddish frank-
ness that he is going back to London to
complete his collection.
Many aspects of war are more terrifying
to men who have been brought up in
ultra-religious, or puritanical homes (and
contrary to popular belief, the A.I.F. was
full of them) than any of the possibilities
indicated in “Journey’s End.” Take v.d.
sufferers. In civilian life one who is
accused publicly of having v.d. rightly has
an action against his accuser, even if the
charge is true. In an army a v.d. patient
is interned in a lazaret and every publicity
is given to his misfortune. War makes
criminals. One of the most upright lads
I ever met overstayed his leave while on
his honeymoon in England. There was no
question of his dodging active service; he
was in a Lark Hill training-camp at the
time. Yet he served a sentence in Wands-
worth Gaol for his “crime.” The much-
maligned “brass-hats” who, in the A.1.F.,
anyhow, were kindly, tolerant men, are
not to blame. These things, like army
contractors (who are now given titles in-
stead of being hanged) and army propa-
gandists (who get high rank for inventing
lies about the enemy), are inseparable from
successfully waged wars. The only way
dramatists can damage war is by turning
from the splendors of the front line
to the foulnesses and idiocies of the
bases and back areas. But they will
never do it. The attitude of the com-
mercial theatre towards war has always
been the same as its attitude towards life.
It concentrates on what is thrilling or
picturesque, and ignores all that is really
loathsome.
JOHN DALLEY.
Eros in the Islands
When Havelock Ellis pronounces The
Sexual Life of Savages, by Bronislaw
Malinowski (Routledge), a classic in its
department, the ordinary critic can only
acquiesce. In this case acquiescence is easy.
Malinowski’s previous work on the Trobri-
anclers, „“Bex and Repression in Savage
Society,” has already been mentioned on
the Red Page; the present work is a more
intensive study of the same subject. Malin-
owski is that rare bird, a field worker with
a full scientific equipment and minus the
Anglo-Saxon Puritanism which is comic
enough in the average person but
is infinitely ridiculous in the scientist.
Most previous writing on the life of
savages, whether by completely inhibited
missionaries or partially inhibited experts,
has ignored the sexual aspect or mutilated
it with the moral prejudices of the writer.
The result has been that fiction, the roman-
tic savage, the emasculated imbecility
which Rousseau presented to an unsuspect-
ing Europe. Malinowski’s portrait pre-
sents the whole man and woman; and, as
usual, the reality is immensely more inter-
esting than the romantic fiction. „
Malinowski’s study illustrates the fact
that evolution is not a symmetrical develop-
ment. The horse, for instance, has a fore-
foot which is more highly developed than
the forefeet of animals otherwise more
advanced in the scale of evolution. The
civilised white man is not on all counts
the summit of achievement. He is only a
collection of isolated peaks. In the
material sphere he is more highly evolved
than the lowly Trobriander; - but morally
the latter can show him some wrinkles.
Although sex is the most important func-
tion of the human organism, in the tech-
nique of love the civilised man is relatively
a barbarian. A Trobriander would be pro-
foundly shocked at the notions about sex
enunciated by an Anglican archbishop.
“These natives,” says Malinowski, “begin
their acquaintance with sex at a very
tender age. The unregulated and, as it
were, capricious intercourse of these early
years becomes systematised in adolescence
into more or less stable intrigues,, which
later develop into permanent liaisons.” In
other words, Trobriand society is very like
civilised society; the difference is that
the Trobriander accepts the existence of
sex and is even capable of discussing it
with that freedom from shame only attained
by rare Western souls like Havelock Ellis.
Whereas a Western audience pretends to
regard “Young Woodley” as either a shock-
ing libel on or an inconvenient exposure
of the schoolboy, the Trobriander would
regard it as a superfluous statement of the
known and obvious.
In his previous work Malinowski pointed
out the psychological effect of this rarity
of sexual taboos on the Trobriander.
According to him, nervous complaints due
to sexual and physiological inhibitions so
plentiful in Western communities are con-
spicuous by their absence in the Trobriands.
A Dean Swift, perpetually horrified at the
thought that he has guts as well as brains;
a D. H. Lawrence, tormented beyond en-
durance because he cannot talk about his
natural functions in polite society, would be
impossible phenomena in those palm-
fringed coral islands. This frank accept-
ance of reality, according to Malinowski,
leads to frankness and honesty even in
business; and a natural gaiety and love of
life are features of Trobriand deportment.
Nor does the Trobriander let this realistic
attitude go so far as to swamp the romantic
element in his lovemaking. Darkness is
favored in his amorous adventures and the
grand passion, is indissolubly associated with
the beauties of Nature. Nor does the Tro-
briander underestimate the value of sundry
rules and regulations for maintaining a
polite and well-ordered society. Just as
the Western citizen frowns on frankness
of speech in books, plays and public
speeches but does not mind carrying home
to his . wife the latest one he has heard at
the club,- so the Trobriander preserves the
strictest decorum before his chiefs and his
maternal relations. He does not allow
liberty to degenerate into license. At the
same time he is the master of his taboos
rather than the slave of them.
These savages, if we are to believe Mal-
inowski, have evolved an erotic life which
is cleaner, better balanced, yet fuller and
more elegant than that of civilised com-
munities. The domestic life of the Tro-
briander is singularly felicitous. He stands
in no need of a Marie Stopes to flog him
out of mere animal sensuality. Maternity
is an honorable institution, not a subject
for furtive jokes by red-nosed Tivoli com-
edians. Jealousy and competition in love,
are by no means unknown, but there is an
absence of the crimes due to repression
which disfigure the Western record.
The Trobriand social system is, of course,
doomed to destruction. In my latest visit
to Bali, in the Dutch East Indies, I noticed
that the women were already getting
ashamed of their nudity. The Ford civili-
sation is responsible for worse crimes than
the destruction of native arts and indus-
tries. In a few years Malinowski’s erotic,
paradise will be made safe for St. Kilda
aldermen. Which makes Malinowski’s
record all the more valuable.
M. G. SKIPPER.
The Case of Robert Robertson, by Sven
Elvestad (John Lane), is a thriller from
Norway. Robertson is a novelty, being a
congenital criminal as well as a detective, but
Dr. Gravenhag, who gets away with murder
by making it appear that he is the corpse,
has been met before in crime fiction. There
is a cynical twist about the end of this
well-translated yarn. Robertson kills Graven-
hag and departs with Merete, the doctor’s
deplorable widow, to live happily ever after.
“Nakboda”: One argument used against
“All Quiet on the Western Front,-” which
some people regard as a conclusive proof
that the book is a false picture of the war,
is that Remarque did not join in the fight-
ing he describes. This, is quite beside the
point. Zola was not present at Sedan, and
Tolstoy did not take part in Borodino; yet
“Le Debacle” and “War and Peace” ’ still
stand the test of time as being the truest
pictures of Armageddon hitherto limned.
A work of art stands on its own legs, not on
the hypothetical “experience” of its creator.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
A.W.H.: Comparison no good—you let the
interest lie in the one case and in the other you
draw it... .E.H.8.: Printed many worse... .Ah Lok:
Too poor even to curse. .. .M.E.8.: Well done. But
the subject doesn’t attract us.... Raj: Doesn’t draw
the weight. .. .H.T.: We can see the bellows blowing.
....Platypus: Many thanks.... Frank L.: Only just
pipped. .. .Anatina: Ditto; a trifle unsubstantial....
Charles Coop: Can’t carry its length....
J.W.N.: You may be right. But when faith
camps, argument picks up his bluey....Jay Mel:
,In the ruck.... Leslew: Sorry, nothing doing.
. ...J.M.H.: Good exercise; but Masefield and others
have exhausted your main theme... .Idaho: We shall
be kinder and tell you to tear them up... .R.L.R.:
You don’t persuade us , they’re real people... .Jhic:
Can’t see a place for it.. . .E.G.M.: Feeble idea not
well developed... .Johnscy: Too many vague state-
ments. Even when we lie we like to be circum-
stantial. .. .T.C.: This is a poor market for that sort
of 'yarn. Try elsewhere.... Mariloo: When a young
lady asks us so sweetly for our candid opinion we
suspect she really wants it candied. And that dis-
arms us E.J.K.: Out on the miscreant who
....lies in bed a-snorin’
While his pretty little wife
Tries hard to chop some kindlin’,
Though she’s meant for easier life.
But you can’t make a poem of him; not that way,
anyhow.... J.C.: Nag unplaced, but don’t lose hope.
. ...Chelsus: “Biddy Abo’’ counted 0ut.... J.A.L.:
Not inflicting “Torture’’ on our readers... .H.F.W.:
Very immature, but try again some day... .8.C.C.:
“Short Cut” too short. .. .K.H.S.: Unconvincing....
E. : A bath of melancholy.... F.M.: Some anima-
tion in the love-making, but little, else... .M. 8.:
Printers’ ink would kill “the exquisite perfume of
Enid”... .E. 8.: No use making sheep’s eyes at us.
. ...H.P.: Good idea; treatment a bit forced....
W.H.R.: Overstocked with sob stuff.... J.W.8.: You
point your moral but you don’t adorn your tale.
. ...J.V.W.: “Stiff”—exactly... .G. A. M.: Seem to
remember those dogs, but no kennel here.... M.W.:
Too slight... .F.F.: A bit mouldy... .N.L.S.: “In
the Storm” a tempest in a teacup. .. .F.S.G.: Fan-
aticism run amok'.. .. . J.M.P.: Style not bad, but
matter morbid. . . .D.J.P.: No payable stone in
Shemus’s shaft. ... K.S.: Is it an Arthurian legend
or a nightmare? R.L.C.: Rum is the only spirit
it has... .R.T.-K;: Might interest medical students.
....11.J.R.: An original touch in coupling Casanova
with Huxley as brother scientists... .R.R.
written, but it’s oft-trodden ground... .Waerenoa:
“Circumstantial Evidence” not strong enough
F. : Nci story interest in vital statistics....
C.M.: “Sax Rohmer” is Arthur S. Ward; latest
novels, “The Emperor of America” and “The Day
the World Ended” J.W.T.: (1) Calvert’s “Explor-
ation” and Favenc’s “Explorers of Australia.” (2)
“Australian Encyclopaedia.” (3) Yes; “Such Is
Life” and “Rigby’s Romance” comprise the whole
of Furphy’s novels as originally written... .R.W.It.:
Diaries make dull reading as a rale; yours is no
exception. .. .L. 8.: One too extravagant; the other too
sad A.H.W.: Lost woman on the way home
F.A.: Blow your reasons for refusing to marry
Burrundie: “Dame —exclaim —name —came.” You
don’t even fluke one that fits “rain”... .L.J.:
Maiden’s “Forest Flora of N.S.W.” is useful and
well illustrated.... D.M.K.: Prose is better than
the verse and shows a nice feeling for
nature.... 0.M.8.: Doesn’t climb very high....
Reuse: Well enough composed, but lacking in
vitamines a, b, c and 2....Mc80nd: Poor as the
hound of Lazarus. ... C.F.W.: Not quite so bad, but
still no good M.E.L.: No corner for it E.T.W.:
Scottie’s horse came a cropper... .R. 5.8.: Short
and simple annals of Bill and Alf declined....
R.M.: Too thin for any Judge in Divorce... .F.L.K.:
Suggests the melancholy induced by indigestion....
R.lt.: Written on both sides of the paper. Boiling
oil for you... .E. 11.5.: Opium story gone up in
smoke... .M.T.: Not the place for it....Bugralong:
“Perversity” has a certain pathos of its own:—
With thirteen thousand jumbuc-ks
1 hiked it from the plains
To the heights around old Kosci
Where grass alone remains.
With thirteen thousand jumbucks
f hiked it, as I said.
With eleven thousand we are facing it,
The balance being dead.
. ...G.F.K.: “The Anchor” goes overboard again.
. ...T.R.: You have some gift for rhyming; but
you’ll have to learn to condense, t 00.... J.G.: There
may be a rhyme to “bunyips” somewhere, but
“turnips” hardly fills the bi 11... .K.C.W.: There’s
merit in it, but a couple of weak verse-ends spoil
half a dozen good ones... .Leuroomba: With a little
more care and practice you ought to catch the
judge's eye. Where did you ever hear of a female
swain 1.... Brady's Lookout; —•
A man’s a man and on his own; •
No bosses —blast their eyes!—
To treat him like he was a stone
When tin is on the rise.
We share your hope for the revival of the base metal
market.... Loop : Your assurance that though N.S.W.
lost £1,839,386 on its railways last year “the
money is returned to the State in another way” is
comforting. But you don’t explain how to dig up
the “other way” and put it in a box and send it
to London, where the Treasurer would find £1,839,386
no small blessing just now Hasscet: For the sake
of a rhyme you make your birds fly in herds; and
that’s not the only forced entry... .K.E.H.: Not
much real feeling yet; but keep going... .0.C.:
Prose is sentiment gone to mush; verse is pretty
but weak,
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.R.P.: Park orator left spouting in the w.p.b.
....A.J.K.: Not well enough done... .N.F.R.: Fair
for a first shot; let us hear from you later. ...
J.T.H.: Why dress your characters in stovepipes?
. ...P.S.H.: You’re struggling gamely.... M.: Might
find a market for one; the other is an appalling pun.
. ...J.N.: Don’t care whether they’re fat or slim,
but we like ’em well drawm. .. .A.L.C.: At least you
can draw a cobweb.... W.T.: Surfers would have
appealed more if they had been up to their necks
in water... .R.G.; Weather-prophet wrangle very
tame... .S.A.: Why did you give Dave two left
hands?... .A.H.S.: A sea of scratches.


9
FAMOUS
PORT
m
■ < i
; BBH
yMZmMm ■ .y yy-yyyyyyy
B—
1 jam
■
■i
»i?| ini, * ?*
t r -' & HK. . V x :
.
4
11^1
US®
■
I
■ I
JKk
M
£
a
i
■M
St
■
mm
■
m
. . ■
t
m
y
mm
m
y£, :; ■■ 4
I
- -;. • '
II
■
::
■
'XwM
-j?_.
m
wmm
■
V .4
■
v • . •-
■, v.
m ■ *
ii ■
mr'*' ■ v*1
iff
..
H
99


The Bulletin
Vol. 51.—N0. 2615.
March 26, 1930.
THE BRIDEGROOM WAITS.
“A State referendum on the issue, liquor licenses or no licenses, will be held in Victoria on Saturday.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 214 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 B B; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 !,s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. Cd.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom; 4oz. to 10oz., lid.:
each additional !,oz., Ul. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: J oz. or part thereof,
Ul. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES . . 2, 5
“BULLETIN” PRIZE COMPETITION—
A JUDGE’S NOTES 2
DRAMA AS A PACIFIST AGENCY—
By John Dailey .. .. .. 2, 5
“SEXUAL LIFE OF SAVAGES”—
By Bronislaw Malinowski . . . . .. 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON .. . 7
EDITORIALS 8 9
ON PULLING THROUGH 8
WILL RAMSAY MacDONALD LAST?.. .. 8
AS A RUSSIAN SEES US
By a Russian journalist . . . . .. 8
HAVE FEDERAL MINISTERS PLUCK
ENOUGH ? 8
THE SUGGESTED GOLD BONUS . . . . 9
VIC.’S LIQUOR REFERENDUM . . . . 9
AUSTRALIAN APPEALS TO PRIVY
COUNCIL, by Hon. Daniel Levy, Speaker
o£ N.S.W. Leg. Assembly . . . . . 9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD . . 9
POLITICAL POINTS (with cartoonlets by
Frith) 10
“WHEN OUR BILLY BOILS” .. .. .. K)
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . . . 11, 12
PERSONAL (with illustrations) . . . . .13
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 14, Ui
THIS WEEK’S INVESTMENT TIP . ’ u
GENERAL INDUSTRIES . . . . . . 14
CARLTON BREWERY 14
BRISBANE CITY ELECTRIC . . . . 14
CIVIL SERVICE STORES (Sydney) .. 14
MANLY HOTELS 14 16
SMITH AND WADDINGTON . . .. 16
SHADOW SHOWS—
A GUIDE TO THE PICTURES 17
“THE HEADS OF THE ROTARY CON-
FERENCE,” by Frith . . . . 17
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. , 8
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . 19 94
MAN ON THE LAND 22 ’ 25
HOW TO KEEP FARM ACCOUNTS . . ’ ‘>9
CURE FOR SMUT IN BARLEY . . 22
WHEN YOU ROB A BEE-TREE . . 99
QUESTIONS ANSWERED 95
Free Service Department • .. .. 26
SMOKE-OH (with three drawings) . . . . 28
POVERTY POINT 31
This Year’s Prize Stories—
the Winners .. 31
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, etc . . 33
SPORTING (illustrated) 35, 36, 37
lIAWKESBURY R. C. (Moorefield) . . . . 35
MOONEE VALLEY 35
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE .. ..41
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 42
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 43
SERIAL—“MEN ARE HUMAN”—
By Vance Palmer .. .. ..44, 45, 46
“As We Said Before”—
A NEW WEEKLY FEATURE .. ..47
TWO COMPLETE STORIES—
“MIRAGE,” by Harold Mercer .. .. . . 49
“THE ENEMY,” by Osinar E. White . . . . 50
VERSE —By J. M. Prentice, Myra Morris,
Roderic Quinn .. .. ... 46, 50
NEXT WEEK.
Besides an exceptionally fine lot of drawings, next
week’s Bulletin will contain a very striking series
of articles studying various Australian failures—
democracy, unionism, the northern coal industry and
the jury system among them, with suggestions for
amendment where possible.
The fiction section will be enriched by two very
attractive short stories—one a story of old Ballarat
by W. Charnley.
TT^rfyulleii/n.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 26, 1930.
ON PULLING THROUGH.
For the first, seven months of the current
fiscal year Australian imports of foreign
merchandise exceeded exports of Australian
merchandise by £30,764,304, as against an
excess of £5,311,144 in the corresponding
seven-twelfths of the previous year. This
excess of imports would have been shocking
in itself; but to it has to be added the
seven months’ proportion of the 30 millions
of annual interest on foreign debt. Hitherto
we had depended upon loans to make up
any shortage. The trouble hit us when,
realising for the first time our prolonged
failure to pay our way, the foreign money-
lender buttoned up his pockets.
In the circumstances there was only one
thing to be done. To meet immediate
demands our reserves of gold were drawn
upon and exported; at the same time the
Government heightened the Customs bar-
riers, while the banks strictly rationed
credits and Commonwealth notes were made
inconvertible into gold outside Australia.
To what extent the restrictions will oper-
ate to bridge the tremendous gulf between
exports on the one side and imports plus
interest commitments on the other nobody
can say for certain. It does not seem too
much to expect that in one way and
another imports will be cut down by one-
sixth; and on top of that will come the
voluntary reduction of foreign purchases
due to trade depression, which may easily
account for another one-fifth. If this esti-
mate is realised our foreign spendings for
the 12 months from April 1 will be reduced
by, say, 35 per cent.; and if we can main-
tain it at that, figure, we should be able
to keep our accounts square.
That, however, will still not wholly solve
the problem of how we are to get through
the current year, in view of the terrific
early burst of imports. It seems inevitable
that we shall have to do some borrowing.
The foreign money-lender was entirely
justified in shutting down upon us. We
can have no complaint against him on that
score. Any banker who saw a client spend-
ing money on luxuries .and adding greatly
to his overdraft would pull his customer
up even though the margin of security was
still more than ample. What we are entitled
to put to the foreign capitalist is that, in
the first place, we have made as much pro-
gress in driving home economic truths and
in practical reform as could reasonably be
expected, and, in the second place, on the
authority of John Bull’s own financial
experts the margin of security in our case
is still wide. The British Economic Mis-
sion, whose report did more perhaps than
anything else to inform the foreign capital-
ist of the position of Australia, stressed
the unwisdom of our loan policy in the
past; nevertheless it found that Australia’s
borrowings were “still well within her actual
and potential resources.” No Australian
institution has been more utterly opposed
to this country’s loan policy than The
Bulletin; none is more certain that the
refusal of loans that may be required to
tide us over the present embarrassment
would be unjustified from the standpoint of
pure business and disastrous from the stand-
point of imperial relations.
Nevertheless, the success of any appeal
that we may be compelled to make to
London will, it is certain, depend on the
success we have in persuading our creditors
that we have mended our ways. To what
extent can we depend on Australia to mend
its ways? To what extent, in fact, is the
position yet realised? Have the great
body of the workers of this country the
faintest idea what this money crisis means,
what caused it, what alone can cure it?
How could they know when their leaders
will not be frank with them—will, indeed,
rather let them be thrown out of work by
the thousand than risk for themselves
momentary unpopularity by telling the
whole truth? A tremendous responsibility
rests upon Labor Ministers especially—
the responsibility of telling the multitude
that for years past we have not been earn-
ing what we have been getting; and that
we must either work harder or take less.
It is not a matter of whether we are
agreeable to this or not. Already thousands
of men have been put off railway and other
construction work. Governments simply
did not have the money with which to
carry on. Other thousands of men have
been put off from private services. The
employers in most of those cases had no
more choice than the Governments had.
We have maintained an artificial standard
by borrowing overseas £226,000,000 in the
past 10 years. Now the lenders will not
lend, so the artificial conditions must go,
whether we like it or not.
The longer we are in settling down to
this fact the longer will the period of
readjustment be, and the greater the danger
of a crash that will land us in many years
of slack employment. Yet if we show that
we see what fools we have been and put
our shoulders into it, there is no reason
why we should have very much unemploy-
ment or distress. Nothing will so encour-
age wise spending among those who can
afford it. Nothing will so loosen the purse-
strings in London in the event of a forced
loan. Added to that we shall have the
money realised from the sale of the goods
poured in during the first seven months of
the year and now largely awaiting sale.
And on top of that is the early promise of a
prolific season. All that is definitely want-
ing is proof that the great body of the
people sees what is wrong and what is the
remedy; and the responsibility for getting
them to see it remains with Labor’s leaders.
THE FIRST OF APRIL IN ENGLAND.
The life of the Ramsay MacDonald Minis-
try has ceased to be a “good risk” in
British insurance circles, and the tariff is
largely responsible. It is doubtful if the
question was ever in a more dishevelled
state. In its latter days the Baldwin Gov-
ernment was moving steadily towards Pro-
tection. The last and biggest sign of a
change of faith was the request of masters
and men in the textile industries to be given
the benefit of the tariff, but their decision
arrived a little too late for the general
election. As the result of that stirring event
the MacDonalds got in, but with no
majority of their own to keep them in.
Their programme included an extensive
abolition of existing Protectionist or “safe-
guarding” duties, and a consequent loss of
revenue; there is reason to suppose
that they regarded this revenue as tainted
money, and held that Providence, as a
staunch Freetrader, would assuredly show
its disciples the way. It also embodied
liberal increases in charitable allowances
and unemployment payments,
The Labor Ministry depended for a
majority on Lloyd George and his 59 fol-
lowers, a considerable number of whom
show signs of setting up a rival organisa-
tion without the old leader. In a general
way the attitude of the Liberal party has
been that it cordially approved of the
abolition of existing Protectionist duties
with the consequent loss of revenue, and
reserved the right of destructive criticism
if a Freetrade Providence neglected to come
to the rescue of the revenue. In most
other respects it was of no great service
to either MacDonald or Baldwin. Its own
election policy had been one of loans and
public works, which would have been a
lamentable proposition on which to take
office; but as Lloyd George had about the
same immediate prospect of office as
Hughes with his Australian party, he could
take up the same attitude as an Honorable
Nark.
The British financial year closes on March
31, so a definite explanation will be inevit-
able before long. The MacDonald Gov-
ernment has abolished no Protectionist
duties, and has carefully sidestepped all
questions as to whether it intends to do so.
Meanwhile the threat of a return to Free-
trade hasn’t helped industry much. Trade
isn’t improving, either inward or outward,
and the vigorous competition of protected
nations is blamed. The charge is denied,
but the denial isn’t backed up by affidavits.
Much speculation about the necessity for
more taxes is in the air. If they prove
necessary, and are of the kind which assist
industry, the MacDonald Ministry will have
thrown its own and Lloyd George’s gar-
ment of fiscal purity into the scrapheap,
and will have nothing to wear. And if they
are of the purely revenue sort, which are
an additional burden on industry, they
are more calculated to increase work-famine
than to help it.
The Ministry of Labor has just announced
that the officially recognised unemployed
in Great Britain number 1,547,200, and that
this is 159,868 more than last year. It was
reckoned that though individual pensions
might grow up the number of pensioners
vvould grow down, but it is over nine months
since Baldwin dropped his political bundle,
and the result is unsatisfactory. A good
deal is made of unemployment in the
United States, which is said to be as bad,
in proportion to population, as that of Brit-
ain. But the U.S. trouble is largely due to
the recent Stock Exchange panic and the
bursting of a vast share-market bubble. The
British unemployed have been an official
institution for 10 years. Lloyd George and
co., who proposed to put everything right
in one lightning act by setting men to build
roads, draw much attention to Ramsay
MacDonald’s unemployed. The Red ele-
ment in his own party does the same, and
asks why Ramsay doesn’t levy stunning new
taxation and increase allowances all round.
When the polite fiction of “safeguarding”
is done away with, and a big party takes up
the question of plain, undisguised Protec-
tion, it will probably be found that John
Bull is ready to clear the situation up.
He wasn’t ready in Chamberlain’s time, but
that was 24 years ago, and the physical
collapse of the energetic Birmingham screw-
maker cut John’s education short.
AS A RUSSIAN SEES US.
The writer of this article is a Russian
of English descent on the maternal
side. He was an engineering student
in Petrograd during the 1905 Revolu-
tion, was at the “bloodless” revolution
of March, 1917, and at the Bolshevist
Revolution of October, 1917. Since
August last year he has been 'president
of the Overseas Journalists’ Association
of Australia.
The countries beyond the seas took much
interest in the All-Australian Trade Union
Congress, held recently in Melbourne, and
I got instructions from the journals I
represent in this country to attend it and in
particular study its atmosphere. There
exists abroad a belief that a strong and
effective Communistic propaganda proceeds
in this country, and some papers went even
so far as to say that this Congress might
be a prototype of a coming Australian
Soviet. As a matter of fact, Australia has
a “bad press” abroad. The flying squad of
visitors who get quick and unconfirmed
statements and. opinions of the conditions
in Australia hasten to pour them out .to
the papers. Such impressions, written by
irresponsible persons, who lack the trained
ear and eye of the professional journalist,
do much harm. One must stay here for a
considerable time and study characteristic
conditions before one can have any right
conception of this young nation. Even a
.passing foreign journalist who would visit
the Congress might get very wrong impres-
sions from one or two speeches by repre-
sentatives of the Left wing of the Congress,
because our Continental definitions do not
always fit Australian conditions. Thus the
speech of an Australian is liable to be quite
misunderstood in other countries.
In the spacious hall of the Trades Hall,
where the Congress was held, many of
the delegates wore the traditional red badge
in their button-holes, though I doubt
whether even that meant what it would
mean elsewhere. There were adherents of
all existing Internationals—the Second,
the Second-and-a-Half and the Third. The
delegates were neatly dressed and did not
wear any of the outward signs of an
enslaved class. It was very different from
what I saw' on similar occasions in Russia
and in other countries-of the Continent.
The next thing which struck me was that-
the delegates, with a very few exceptions,
were actually working people, while the
Continental Labor Conferences are largely
occupied by the intelligentsia of the move-
ment. Another interesting fact was the
absence of delegates of Jewish nationality,
usually very prominent at such gatherings
in Europe. . .
As a rule, the addresses were delivered m
a clear and loud voice, and many of the
delegates proved to be able speakers; but
there were never those fiery impetuous
speeches and desperate outcries eloquently
spoken by a destitute caste. The Congress
\Vas a gathering of quiet and well-mannered
people who spoke matter-of-fact things with
the precision of members attending a meet-
ing of a Geographical Society. In spite of
difference of opinions the air was never
electrified by outbursts of intolerance or
hatred.
The different, international matters put
before the Congress did not seem to stir
the delegates; Australian home affairs were
their main concern. When Mr. J. S. Garden
reported on the conditions of labor in
Sumatra, Borneo, Celebes and Java, the
assembly did not look perturbed; on the
other hand local arbitration and unemploy-
ment, questions seemed to harrow the
delegates.
There were several interesting figures. A
touch of Demosthenes, a pinch of Trotsky
and a great deal of Harry Lauder—that
was the impression made on me by the
leader of the Left wing, Mr. Garden. Alert
and active, bustling around with his litera-
ture in crimson covers, and replying to
hundreds of questions put by delegates
streaming to his seat, Mr. Garden was one
of the-central figures of the Congress. With
the face of a prizefighter and pathetic out-
cries against, the capitalists, Mr. G. Bods-
worth was the only delegate who reminded
me of the typical proletarian orator in
Russia. Keeping his head buried between
his shoulders, with a sardonic smile on his
whimsical face, Mr. H. C. Gibson, the
leader of the Right wing, was a tough
proposition to the Reds. Another interest-
ing figure among the moderates was Mr.
J. Kean, one of the veterans of the Labor
movement in Victoria. With his deep and
prickly voice he appealed both to the
reason and to the emotions.
The crux of the deliberations lay in the
fight between the international Left and
the national Right wing. The Rights proved
the better tacticians, while the Lefts were
at times the better strategists. The most
thrilling moment came w'hen Mr. Garden’s
campaign in favor of the Pan-Pacific affili-
ation was lost. There were distinct signs
of relief on many faces, and it was the
only time I heard involuntary shouts of
j oy—“Australia wins! ”
The chairman of the Congress, Mr. W.
J. Duggan, was responsible for the exem-
plary order maintained throughout the
conference. There was one thing about
the chairman that remained a mystery to
my Continental mind and ear; that is the
way he managed to find the verdict of the
assembly from the choruses of ayes and noes.
To sum up, the nine days I attended the
Congress, following closely the debates and
studying the delegates, led me to think
that, so far, the Third International has no
real roots among the working class of this
country. In spite of all my efforts, I could
not trace anything like the sinister figure of
Lenin, the father of the Soviets, among the
delegates; and the general conduct and the
frame of mind of the Congress did not offer
any suggestion of a revolution which might
face this country with its highest-in-the-
world standard of living.
J. S. GOODE
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Have Federal Ministers Pluck Enough?
Mr. Scullin is enthusiastic on the subject
of growing more wheat; and apparently the
whole Government is in accord about it.
At Ministers’ instigation slogans are broad-
cast every few hours urging the farmer to
get to it and plant another hundred acres.
“Don’t merely double the last harvest,”
they urge—“treble it!” The Bulletin is
as anxious as anybody to see the wheat
harvest trebled; and it is because it believed
that results could be largely improved and
the risks of the business largely reduced
without increasing the labor that this paper
two years ago established a new depart-
ment for “the man on the land.” But the
outlook for wheat is not so good that
entire national dependence should be put
upon it; it is just as well to remember
that at this moment Uncle Hoover is advis-
ing his farmers to grow less wheat. This
does not necessarily mean that it is a bad
time to grow more wheat; but it does sug-
gest that it is taking an awful risk to
depend on it for national salvation.
The fact that the Federal Government
raises this slogan proves, nevertheless, that
it realises our danger and sees the need to
do something to bridge the gulf. We
might regard Ministers as merely dull and
ignorant if they did not realise that danger
and see that need. But what can we think
of them when, seeing the need, they,
restrict their call to greater production to
the farmer? Nobody has heard a Minister
even whisper the slogan “Dig more, coal!”
Nobody has caught the faintest murmur of
a Minister’s appeal to the roadmaker to
shift more muck and so reduce the farmer’s
appalling freight charges. Nobody has even
caught on a Minister’s lips an unspoken
prayer to the bricklayer to “Lay more
bricks!”
If, then, Ministers leave the matter
where it is—if, knowing that our case calls


MORE WORK OR LESS WINE?
"We have only liver! during the past few years by borrowing about 40 millions per annum. How that gulf of 40 millions shall be bridged is largely a matter for
the workers themselves to decide. They can do more work for the same money or the same work for less money. It must be one or the other. There is no other way out.
—THE BULLETIN 19/3/’3O.
THE WORKER: “Here, this pot’s not full."
THE CELLARER: “No, but you can’t get more out of the cask than is in it.”
THE WORKER: “But I must have more.”
THE CELLARER: “Well, that’s easy. All you've got to do is put more in it.”
urgently for more production, they appeal
only to the men whose product is in poor
demand in the world’s market—only one
conclusion can be come to: that they appeal
to him because he is a person who can be
picked on without any danger, whereas the
vast multitude who don’t work anything like
as hard as the farmer, and who can therefore
increase their output with far less effort,
might be annoyed if they were told to dig
more coal, or lay more bricks, or shear
more sheep.
So the Federal Government, having per-
force to be acquitted of dullness and ignor-
ance, is faced with the charge of cowardice
—and that in full view of a threatened
national calamity. Minister for Defence
Green will no doubt be able to tell his
colleagues what was thought in wartime of
cowardice in the face of the enemy. And
Mr. Brennan, as the trained advocate among
Ministers, will be able to advise them that
they can completely answer the charge by
giving exactly the same advice to the
miners, the muckmovers, the shearers and
others as they have so enthusiastically given
to the wheatgrowers.
Victoria’s Liquor Referendum.
State Prohibition referendums are stupid
things. Victoria, which is being subjected
to one of the costly nuisances, makes large
quantities of ale and beer (excise duty
was paid on nearly 24 million gallons last
year), wine, brandy, whisky and gin. Its
neighbors are South Australia, famous for
wine and brandy, and N. 8. Wales, whose
wine output was second only to South
Australia’s in the latest year for which the
Commonwealth Statistician gives figures.
If the Victorians decide to go dry they
couldn’t prevent liquor coming over the
border or arriving by sea from other States
if it were the produce of those States,
though they could pass unenforceable laws
against the sale of it and their own stuff
within their boundaries. To make a show
of enforcement they would need to double
the police force, and that would mean an
added expenditure of £700,000 a year. They
would also require boats to patrol the 800
miles of coastline, and it would be no use
trying to borrow the Commonwealth fleet.
Excise duties on Victorian liquor brought
in £2,443,100 last year. Customs duties on
overseas liquor yielded another £571,800.
So if the Drys prevail on Saturday there
will be a serious loss of revenue, and they
have not even attempted to show how it
could be made up. There will also, as
is obvious, be a vast loss of capital, and
the State Government, already planning
special taxation to provide for the unem-
ployed, will have many thousands more
thrown on its hands. Then an awkward
compensation problem will arise. Hitherto
dispossessed owners and licensees have been
provided for out of a fund supplied by the
Trade itself, the average payments since
1923 being £906 to owners and £272 to
licensees. The Government has dipped
freely into this fund for its own necessities;
since 1923 it has grabbed £1,649,000 for
consolidated revenue, £503,900 for muni-
cipalities and £184,000 for police super-
annuation. At the beginning of the financial
year there was £441,000 in hand, but this
would provide only about £2OO per hotel,
as against an average of £ll7B for houses
wiped out for being dingy and excessive.
Naturally owners and licensees, if ruled
out on Saturday, will demand the return of
the amounts transferred to municipalities
and police superannuation, and at least
two-thirds of those paid into consolidated
revenue; and they will have an unanswer-
able case.
A triumphant “Yes” vote will heap all these
troubles on the Victorians, and more. It
will bring home to them some of the hideous
features of the Prohibition experiment in
the U.S.A.—the contempt for law, the
frenzied drinking and drug-taking, the
organised crime which bears so sinister a
resemblance to civil war, with a “Scarface”
Caponi for general instead of a Robert
E. Lee. And their own licensing system,
which is a model to other countries, will
go. Since 1907 the Licensing Board, work-
ing on the soundest lines, has reduced the
number of Vic. hotels from 3507 to 1814
and had the general standard immeasurably
improved. It has closed 496 in Melbourne
and suburbs, 220 (out of 391) in Ballarat,
Bendigo and Geelong and 1046 (out of
2058) in country districts. At the same
time arrests for drunkenness declined from
14,703 to 9562; the proportion per 1000 of
population fell from 9.92 in 1910 to 5.50
in 9128. Is there any impartial American
who will say that these achievements have
been paralleled in his country, allowing for
the difference in population? Could Pro-
hibition possibly give real temperance
people, as distinguished from the fanatics,
a better foundation to build on?
♦ -
A Gold Bonus.
Kingston's old law-partner McLachlan, of
Adelaide, one of the solidest men in the
Senate, is troubled about Australia’s gold
production. He believes there are millions
of tons of stone just outside the pay limit
at this time when Australia needs gold
so badly; and he thinks that if we gave
the digger of gold Our lOU for half a
sovereign per ounce of gold exported- :we
would produce some millions of ounces- of
the metal that otherwise will remain in
the earth.
This suggestion of a gold bonus, which
has been very widely approved in West-
ralia, is not one to be lightly brushed
aside. Unquestionably there are merits in
it, as well as the great demerit attaching
to all production bonuses: they tend to
increase the cost of production when our
great need is to reduce that cost. But
McLachlan’s scheme is apparently to pay
the bonus only on gold exported, to pay
for the gold plus the bonus in local bonds
and to use all the money derived
from the sale to purchase foreign-held
Australian bonds, and for no other pur-
pose. This would mean, in effect, that
the £630,000,000 of foreign debt would
be converted into Australian debt of
£700,000,000 if we could dig up £630,000,000
of gold; in other words, we would have
to issue £lO of Australian bonds for every
£9 of foreign bonds. There seems no doubt
whatever tha.t in itself such a substitution
would be beneficial to Australia.
The rest is not so clear; and the Senator
does well to ask for an inquiry into it.
Three things in particular call for study:
(1) How is the gold which needs this sub-
sidy to cause it to be produced to be dis-
tinguished from all other gold? A distinc-
tion seems to be impossible in practice;
if so it means that all gold must get the
bonus and not merely gold in ores now
just outside the pay limit.
(2) How can Australia make sure that
the gold will be used for the reduction of
the foreign debt, which would be worth
a very considerable sacrifice, and not as a
basis for the great extension of the foreign
debt, which would be a national calamity?
(3) .How are we going to assure ourselves
that the bonus will not be used as the basis
for a demand for higher wages and slacker
conditions, with the very probable result
of encouraging demands for higher wages
and slacker conditions in other industry, at
a time when the cost of production must be
lowered it we are to ward off a great smash?
Ways may be found of getting over these
difficulties. An effort certainly ought to
be made to do it, because of the benefits
the scheme would bring if it could be oper-
ated without overwhelming disadvantages.
■
Australian Appeals to the Privy Council.
Dear Bulletin,— For the Judicial Commit-
tee Of the Privy Council—often briefly but
mistakenly referred to as the “Privy Coun-
cil” —I have profound respect. Its members
are—-and have been for many years—
eminent and erudite . jurists. Their judg-
ments are mostly models of lucidity and
logic, couched - in elegant English. Often
a Privy Council judgment is in itself a kind
of-treatise on the: subject matter dealt with,
and the lawyer who does not read his
Privy Council reports misses an-intellec-
tual treat. And yet I cannot help feeling
that there is something wrong, in this year
1930, in our sending Qur legal troubles for
final settlement to a tribunal sitting 13,000
miles away.
When the Commonwealth Constitution
was being drafted strong differences of
opinion prevailed as to the expediency of
preserving the right of appeal to the Eng-
lish Judicial Committee. Ultimately that
right—with certain limitations which are
not here material—was inserted in the Con-
stitution, and there it still remains un-
altered. No question of loyalty to the
Empire is here involved; nor will there
be any serious constitutional difficulties
in terminating the present practice, if the
people of Australia decide to invest the
High Court with the final decision of our
lawsuits.
Thirty years have elapsed since the Con-
stitution was drafted—and much has hap-
pened since then. We are now a fully-
fledged nation, recognised as a unit of the
British Commonwealth of Nations, and we
are proud of what we have achieved and
what we can produce in Australia. There
was a time when we were compelled to
import our Judges. Then followed a period
when colonial-born Judges were acceptable,
provided they were educated and trained
as lawyers in England. Only within recent
years have we recognised that men born,
educated and trained in Australia are cap-
able of filling the highest judicial posts.
Griffith, Barton, O’Connor, Isaacs, Higgins,
to mention no others —what a galaxy of
talent have we seen on the Federal High
Court Bench! I make no capital of occa-
sional slips made by the English Judicial
Committee owing to the impossibility of
any body of men, out of Australia, fully
understanding Australian conditions. This
has happened once or twice in appeals
relating to the construction of the Aus-
tralian Land Acts. And one P.C. judgment
contains a reference to “mango swamps”!
Yet when all is said, it may be claimed
that this body is the most intellectual
judicial tribunal in the world. But even
that should not shake our confidence in our
ability to settle our own lawsuits.
On the score of expense alone the case
against the appeal to the Old Country is a
potent one. Only those who have had per-
sonal or professional experience will realise
what it all means. The cost of printing
the notes of evidence, exhibits, etc., the
interlocutory applications, the instructing of
English solicitors and the fees to be paid
to English counsel who specialise in Privy
Council appeals, the long delays, and the
remaining steps to be taken in our own
courts —this is all sufficient to induce a
shiver down the spine of a man with mod-
erate means. The poor man is out of it
; altogether. But did not Mr. Justice Maule
once observe that it is the glory of the
; English law that it makes no distinction
■ between the rich and the poor?—Yours, etc.,
Daniel Levy.


COMMONWEALTH LOAN
CONVERSION OF LOAN MATURING ON DECEMBER 15, 1930.
6 PER CENT. PER ANNUM FOR 7 YEARS.
Applications are invited from persons holding Stock or Bonds
in the Loan maturing on December 15, 1930, to convert now
into a new Loan.
Conversion will be effected as on March 15, 1930, and all
persons who convert will continue to receive interest at 6 per
cent, per annum until March 15, 1937.
Commonwealth Treasury,
Canberra, F.C.T.
The terms are exactly the same as those on which the conversion
and redemption of the Loan maturing on March 15, 1930, has
been successfully arranged.
Interest is free of State Income Tax.
Full particulars from Banks, Savings Banks, Money Order Post
Offices and members of Stock Exchanges.
EDWARD G. THEODORE,
Treasurer.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Another split in the
Australian party.”
At the latest
weekly with-
drawal from
the “Austra-
lian party,” a
disgusted
gentleman who
moved that
the Mosman
branch should
quit said that
the total
membership in
Sydney and
suburbs was
“o n 1 y about
1000,” the
country organ-
isation having
proved a
fiasco. The re-
po r t me n-
tioned that
the motion
was carried by 21 to 3, the others present
being unfinancial. Yet it was thought that
the “party” was at least £25,000 strong.
The week-end closed with another great
rise in the.exchange rate: for the first time
in history it now costs £lO6 10s. in Australia
to pay a bill for £lOO in London—and for
exchange purposes London means New York
and other foreign places. The Australian
banks are so short of gold in London, and
so little Australian produce is being shipped
to be turned into gold, that the rate has
been raised to further restrict imports. But
this is a job the Government ought to do,
not the banks. In fixing the rate banks
cannot distinguish between imports of
luxuries and imports of things which are
the raw materials of Australian industries;
so the present method of restricting imports
is liable to knock out a few Australian fac-
tories.
The politicians got Australia into its pre-
sent mess, so it is only fair that retrench-
ment should begin with their salaries. A
10 p.c. cut in these for one year would
deprive Cabinet Ministers of £B6OO (£lO,OOO
if theii; average travelling expenses are in-
eluded), Upper House members of £7lOO,
Lower House members of £26,100, Speakers
and the like of £2200, or £44,000 altogether.
Cleary, the N.S.AV. Chief Railways Commis-
sioner, has set them a shining example by
taking 10 p.c. off his own salary (£5OOO p.a.)
for the benefit of the State and devoting
another 40 p.c. to the relief of distress among
the railwaymen he has had to put off.
J. Bull keeps
two establish-
ments, and now
trouble has come
on him and it is
time to choose.
If he marries his
F'reetrade mis-
tress he will be
broke. If he
takes the Protec-
tionist girl in
wedlock and
cleaves to her he
will almost cer-
tainly be rich,
but he will feel
that he married
for money and
brought discredit
on an old but
threadbare family.
One of the
N.S.W. railway
problems is of
the double-bar-
relled sort. The
staff works under
two awards, Fed-
eral and State.
One gives it 44
hours’ work and
the other gives it
48 hours’ pay.
The cost of the
anomaly is said to be £600,000 a year. It is
one of several idiocies that have been
keeping the new Commissioner awake at
night and have driven that shocked patriot
to offer to forego half of his salary for a
year or so.
The tail of the Vic. Labor Caucus has
been permitted to wag the Cabinet dog on
the question of special income taxation to
provide work for the unemployed. It seems
intent on provoking a row with the Plush
House on the burdening of the same old
140,000 income-taxpayers with 1 or 2 per
cent, extra on incomes (not assessments),
while single men in steady jobs are exempt.
Laborites have even side-tracked their own
former pet scheme of doubling the halfpenny
in the £ now levied on unimproved land
values. As for taxing the turnover of book-
makers, they won’t even think of it.
Labor Premier Collier in his policy speech :
AVe are out to resist illegitimate encroachments
upon the rights of Westralia, no matter the source
from which they emanate.
An obvious hint to Scullin that his unifica-
tion proposal hasn’t a dog’s chance in West-
ralia. Even Melbourne “Age” denounces
the crazy plan, after having been almost
obsequious to the Scullidores. The industrial-
powers referendum would probably be car-
ried if it stood alone; tacked on to the uni-
fication tomfoolery it will assuredly fail.
Defence Minister Green beamed when he
was asked to transfer the rifle clubs from
civil to military control, and announced him-
self highly in favor of
the change. Not only
would the cause of
economy be
served, the
verdantone
b u r b led,
but the
D e f e nee
forces
would be
strength-
ened. They might be
if the _ clubs were
trained in the rudi-
ments of organisation,
but that would con-
flict with the Minis-
ter’s dominant idea —•
Defence at bargain-
sale prices.
Hogan’s latest pro-
posal for the relief of
the Vic. financial and
industrial situation is
an open season for
opossum hunters. There
was one in 1926,
when 800 trappers
Perhaps Hogan
will start it in
style.
paid £5 a head for licenses and 466,5(X)
marketable skins were brought in. A dozen
pelts sometimes realised as much as £7, but
they wouldn’t bring anything like that now.
Special permits are issued to farmers, and
if the animal is becoming a nuisance, as is
alleged, an extension of this system should
meet the bill. Hogan’s scheme won’t help
much to meet his bill.
The Scullidores have made a mess of
what they call their efforts to assist the wine
industry. They handed over the job to young
Mr. Forde, the Minister for Peanuts, and
young Mr. Forde lightheartedly announced
that lie would add 6d. a gallon to the export
bounty on sweet wine, give the grape-
The man with two establishments.
growers another 15s. or 20s. a ton (30s. in
places), and make Penfolds, Seppelts and the
like pay by raising the excise duties on fortify-
ing spirit to 10s. and 11s. a gallon—doubling
them, in effect. These new duties, young Mr.
Forde said, “will provide £443,000, which
will be sufficient for a bounty of Is. 6d. on
2,750,000 gallons. When it was pointed out
that, on his own showing, the old duties
yielded £428,100
in one year, and
£435,100 in all-
ot h e r, and
that last year’s
exports were
only 1,239,800
gallons, young
Mr. Forde airily
replied that
“the resultant
extra impost on
fortified wine
sold in Austra-
lia will be only
2d. a bottle,”
and Mr. Scullin
hotly declared
that “manufac-
turers who ex-
ploit the Aus-
tralian market
will get no
special consid-
eration.” Then
wineries started
closing down at
a brisk rate,
and the Govern-
ment’s tail went
down, too. At lat-
est it was fran-
tically altering
its proposals and
eating its words.
Australia is our winemakers’ only sure
market, and there couldn’t be a worse time
for local prices to be forced up. “Why kill
the Australian sweet-wine trade for a doubt-
ful English market?” asked Penfold Hyland
in a pithy, telegram. The Priminister’s reply,
as given in Parliament, was that “in view
of the country’s finances those who ‘exploit’
the Australian market must contribute to the
export of wine to the less profitable markets
abroad.” This Labor policy applies to wine
only. In the matter of coal the tax-revenue
is to be raided so that the northern miners
may be induced to go back to work. “The
country’s finances” are a secondary con-
sideration in that case.
Queensland has a new Court of Concilia-
tion and Arbitration. Proceedings were
opened with an application for ss. per week
more basic wage all round, and a general
reduction of hours from 44 to 40 per week.
Applicants said that there had been no
decline in any industry except the pastoral
one, which is the biggest the State possesses,
and even in that five or six big companies
had been doing well “right up to and includ-
ing 1929.” The slump in wool values in
the second half of 1929 wasn’t alluded to,
nor the falling away in manufacturing
employment, nor the persistent drop in
mineral production. Times are never too
bad for a demand for less work.
N.S.W. factories employed 2463 more
workers in 1928-29 than in the previous year,
but N.S.W., Victoria and S. Australia com-
bined employed 2554 less. For many years
average factory wages and employment in-
creased together. Now average wages go
up, and the number of employees does the
other thing.
The habit of temperance has grown
steadily in Vic. In 1928 there were 1828
hotels, or 1 for every 970 persons, as against
3507, or 1 for every 360 persons, in 1907.
Over the same period the number of drunks
arrested has decreased from 8.93 to 4.47 per
thousand sober citizens, while the consump-
tion of spirits has fallen from .69 gallons
per head in 1913 to .29 gallons in 1928. Yet
Victorians are asked to scrap the sane licens-
ing system which has produced these results
for the chaos with which Uncle is cursed.
The strike levy business or swindle got
a knock back in Queensland when a magis-
trate’s court vetoed the extortion of 235. 6d.
from a Brisbane carpenter for the Sydney
timber strikers whom the Communists left
“on the beach.” The defence was that the
levy had not been approved by a majority
of the State branch of the union, as pro-
vided by the rules. It was shown that of
20,000 union carpenters in Australia only
1500 had voted, 800 being for the levy,, and
it was argued that the 800 had committed
all the rest. Hishon, P.M., ruled that this
was unlawful, as well as outrageous, and
awarded defendant costs.
A New York paper flies a kite by suggesting
that Britain should buy off U.S. claims to
Wilkes Land, down in the ice region, by
giving up the Falklands. Wilkes Land is a
polite fiction on the map—the coast-line
which Wilkes put on his chart some 90
years ago melted away, being only ice. The
Falkland group is a genuine place with a
white population, a Legislative Council, an
education system, a savings bank, 600,000
sheep, a whale fishery, a note issue, a mail
service and some trade. No doubt Uncle
would give up a frozen ghost in the Antarc-
tica in exchange for such a place. It is
larger than three States of his Union.
The secretary of the Westralian wheat
pool has told the farmers that “owing to
the low prices” there are not sufficient funds
in hand for the dividend of 6d. per bushel
that it was hoped to pay in April. West-
ralia has more land under cultivation in
proportion to population than any other
State, and 81 per cent, of this is sown with
wheat, which is also an Australian record
with a big margin to spare. It isn’t pro-
mising that the U.S. Farm Board contemplates
sending agents abroad to dig out markets
for the wheat with which it is overloaded.
Scullin’s guarantee of 4s. per bushel at
country railway stations for next season's
crop may help the farmers a little, but it
looks as though it might have a bad effect
on Scullin’s finances.
Between 1924 and 1929 Australia put an
additional five million acres under wheat,
while other crops combined remained where
they were or declined a little. This may be
called sticking too much to one subject.
Among the unpromising little railway
scraps and dead-ends which stopped con-
struction in N.S.W., or didn’t start for
want of loan money, are four suburban
affairs —Tempe-East Hills, Sutherland-
Cronulla, Manly-Nortli Sydney and East-
wood-St. Leonards. It is announced that
“a syndicate interested in properties” has
offered to lend the funds for these particular
jobs. Presumably the syndicate would leave
the loss on working the lines to the general
taxpayer, and some of the losses on scrappy
suburban lines are wonderful. One of them
is losing 26 p.c. p.a., and has been losing
for 29 years. Bavin and co. have been
blessed with a chance to ease off the con-
struction business, and shouldn’t be over-
hasty in throwing the blessing away. Still,
if any syndicate thinks it would like to
lay down rails and run trains at its own
risk it should have a courteous hearing.
Parliamentary Public Works Committees
are among the luxuries which ought to be
dispensed with these times. No harm would
result if the Federal Public Accounts Com-
mittee were suspended also. This body wan-
dereS all over Tasmania at considerable cost
to inquire about the financial disabilities of
the State, which have been reported on so often.
It could have got all the necessary infor-
mation without leaving the Parliamentary
library at ’Berra.
An attempt to modernise the counting of
votes and to eliminate informals has been
Frith suggests an
improvement.
made by a couple of
M.L. inventors. Un-
der their system a
numbered metal disc
is issued to each
voter, the number
being inscribed
against the name on
the roll. For each
candidate there is a
sealed ballot-box
bearing his name in
bold letters; the
voter pushes his disc
through a slot, and
a counting-machine
does the rest. The
result of a simple
first-past - the - post
election of the sort
in vogue in M.L. can
be announced a few
seconds after voting ceases.
One aspect of Prohibition in America
which has not been touched on in the Vic.
campaign concerns the direct effect of the
Volstead Act on other forms of liberty
besides the privilege of having a drink. Since
li'ooverland went dry the clamor of the
Prohibitionists has led to more and more
ferocious intrusions on the freedom of the
citizen. The right to trial by jury has been
taken away from persons charged with
infringements of the liquor law, and raids
by police and law-enforcement thugs have
multiplied in spite of the tradition that the
American’s house, like the Englishman’s, is
his castle. And these concessions to
fanaticism only whet .the appetites of the
Drys for more.
Senator Blaine, of Wisconsin, is stated to
be preparing a resolution authorising Hail
Columbia Hoover “to recognise the indepen-
dence of India.” This will probably lead
to some Tory diehard asking the British
Government to recognise the independence
of Hawaii, Porto Rico, Samoa, Guam, the
Virgin Islands and the Philippines. Uncle
has been promising the Filipinos indepen-
dence for 30 years.
From the Office Soothsayer:—
In 1940 Victorian prohibitionists celebrated with
pomp and circumstance the tenth anniversary of the
abolition of the drinking habit in the southern State.
That was the year in which careful mothers began
the custom of filling their daughters’ flasks before
they went to dances because the liquor they would
otherwise get there was so dangerous to health, and
even sometimes to life.
WHEN THE BILLY BOILS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Bavin doubted if Mr. Hughes’s efforts to
create a new party were arousing much interest,
although the promoter could always secure an audi-
ence to listen to his picturesque denunciations of all
who didn’t agree with him.”
When Scullin’s dialectics pall
And leave the hearer weary,
When Theodore’s appeal is small
And Page’s drone grows dreary,
When Pearce emits his slieeplike bleat
Or Yates at sums is toiling,
How many wouldn’t cross the street
To hear our Billy boiling!
Let Parkliill pish and Anstey wheeze
And Brennan quips be dropping,
Let Gullett chip at whom he please
While Latham’s logic-chopping,
But where is one to strafe and slate
So savagely and shrilly
Or mouth his fervent hymn of hate
AVith such effect as Billy?
Each quondam friend he’ll daub with soot
And pillory for a zany;
Some curse like Mother Sheehy put
On Corporal Mulvaney
One nightly looks to see him loose
On ev’ry lukewarm trimmer
Who’s queered his pitch and cooked lxis
goose—
When Billy’s on the simmer.
An adept he at tickling ears,
Whatever his objective,
With mordant gibes and caustic jeers
And blistering invective.
To high ideals and selfless aims
To-day you’ll find him chilly,
But when it comes to calling names
He keeps his punch, does Billy.
For all who ever crossed his will
Anathemas he hatches,
And none can diatribes distil
So rich in pungent patches.
His party stays in embryo ;
The fight for which he’s spoiling
Recedes beyond his reach; but oh!
It bangs the liveliest talkie show
To hear our Billy boiling!
N.S.AV.
IFORD.


SOCIETU
and it's
Printed with
WIMBIE'S
“Lex”: Lord Darling, asked before, the
British Capital Punishment Committee if
he favored the retention of the black cap,
.said he did, because it is “the State dress
of a Judge when exercising the highest duty
which the State has conferred.” All it
really stands for is the idiotic conservatism
of the legal profession. Before the Stuart
period Judges and sergeants-at-law, who
were usually old and bald, covered their
heads with day-caps, as they did with night-
caps when indoors. Tonsured monks, who
were the earliest of all legal practitioners,
probably began the practice. Wigs came in
with the Stuarts, but the King’s Bench
Division Judges stuck to their caps, perch-
ing them on top of their wigs for special
occasions. And they still stuck to them
w T hen wigs went out in the nineteenth
century. Incidentally, the so-called “black
cap” is not a cap, but a small silk square
with a hole in it. It is not necessarily
used at London Central Criminal Court
(where two City aldermen can try and sen-
tence a prisoner to death) or at an assize
court, where a K.C. and assize official can
sentence to death. Why Australia per-
petuates this foolery is a mystery. It would
have done better to import and retain the
THE MAN WHO KEPT HIS WORD.
“Before we were married you used to say that if you saw me
for only five minutes it made the day seem like Heaven.”
“And I still say it would.”
custom of displaying a bunch of flowers on
the bench —one which still flourishes at the
Old Bailey in memory of the time when
criminal courts stank so that the trial Judges
needed a prophylactic.
* * * *
“Norstralia”: One of our coroners lately
investigated the death of a diver. All
evidence pointed to a perfectly accidental
death from asphyxiation, and the coroner,
having given his verdict accordingly, pro-
ceeded to write it down. “Death from
ass—a-s-y —s-s—"-as — Damn it all, he died of
suffocation.” And so it appears in the report
to-day.
“Barnacle Bill”: At Wyndham and other
North Westralian townships the B.M.u.
is also the R.M. A hard case from the
Back o’ Beyond arrived at Wyndham witn
a septic hand, a parched throat and a cheque.
The doctor shoved him in hospital, but alter
twb days he broke out and got tight. Meet-
ing tlie magisterial medico, he became
abusive, and pelted a few bricks throiig i
the hospital windows, being thereupon seized
by the sergeant of police and thrust in the
cooler. There was no clerk of courts to
stage-manage proceedings next morning (he
was out of town), but the R.M.O. was
equal to the occasion. He sat in solitary
magnificence on the bench and listened to
the testimony, of the sergeant. Then he
entered the witness-box, swore himselt in,
gave his evidence to the empty bench, re-
sumed the magisterial chair and dignity,
summed up and passed sentence — six
months.”
* * * *
“Leamington”: To me one of the most
tiresome creatures on
earth is the “witty”
Judge or advocate who
never misses an oppor-
tunity of scoring off
some poor devil in the
dock. A certain type
of magistrate an d
police sergeant is just
as noxious. Retaliation
is useless and dan-
gerous. I remember a
case in Melbourne in
which a youth was
charged with having
pelted a Levantine
restaurant-keeper with
several of the swarthy
gent.’s own eggs, justly
it seemed to me, for
a vile meal had been
set before him. During
the hearing the beak
suggested that the cast 1
“had a bad odor”
(Loud laughter). This
encouraged the ser-
geant, who facetiously
asked the youth, “Mow
do you like your eggs
done?” “Scrambled,
like your bla n k y
brains!” was the un-
expected reply. The
thunder of outraged
dignity burst around
the culprit, and at
least 29 days of his
month were earned by
the retort. He’d made
the mistake of joining
in the game without a jersey.
$
“A. Street”: A Greymouth (M.L.) man,
caught on licensed premises after hours,
didn’t tax his imagination by explaining that
he had “just called in to borrow (or return)
a book,” or that he “wanted to make arrange-
ments with Briggs, the boarder, about a job
in the morning,” or anything like that.
“What’s your excuse?” he was asked by
the man in blue. “Oh, I dunno,” he replied
brightly—“what can you suggest?”
* * *
“Bildad” : A point which isn’t stressed as
it might be at no-
license referen-
dums is that the
Ten Command-
ments don’t pro-
hibit drinking or
the making or sell-
ing of drink. The
Decalogue, taken
by itself, isn’t such
a comprehensive
affair as is com-
monly supposed.
A man might keep
the Commandments
and yet be a most
objecti o n a b le
citizen. He might
drink persistently
and eat to excess;
he might make the
lives of his family
(bar his father and
mother) a misery
by tyranny and bad
temper; he might
be filthy in his per-
son and premises;
he might be given
to abusive and pro-
fane language so
long as he avoided
the use of one
Name, and he could
swear along with-
out it; he might
lie so long as it
was not done in
the witness-box;
and he might malig-
nantly torture the
household dog and
cat. In addition
he might be
avaricious, mean,
unpatriotic and a
coward. On the
other hand, a dif-
ferent person might
be a pretty hard-
ened Command-
ment breaker and
yet leave people
owing him a debt
of gratitude. Some
big historical
characters did that
and yet knocked
the Decalogue
about considerably,
especially rules six, seven and ten.
# * * *
“Strict Veg.”: The Prohibition campaign
in Vic. has _ abounded in comic relief, the
best item being provided by the controversy
that has raged over the Housewives’ Asso-
ciation. This began with the president, Mrs.
Percy Russell, coming out as an eloquent
advocate for temperance reform by educa-
tion. A section of the association had in
the meantime declared itself for Prohibition
and it bitterly resented the publication of
“No” advertisements in the Housewives’ jour-
nal. Mrs. Russell was promptly disowned. A
hurried meeting of the executive moved her
immediate expulsion. The lady consulted
her lawyers, who advised her that she was
de facto president until after the referendum,
and she refused to budge. Attempts to bar
her from the association premises met with
resistance, and it was the executive which
found itself outside. The battle becoming
hotter and hotter, Mrs. Russell and her sup-
porters gathered up the books and papers and
retired to a suite of inner rooms, where they
PLENTY OF PROOF ABOUT THAT.
MOTHER (giving the newly-wedded couple some good advice ): “And you must be
indulgent. Remember that no two people think exactly alike.”
MAISIE: “Oh mother, what nonsense! Just look at our wedding presents!”
barricaded themselves. The Prohibition party
sent for a locksmith, who endeavored to
force open the door, receiving a smart smack
for his pains. Members who advocate tem-
perance in the conduct of the association's
affairs are unable to make themselves heard
in the din.
x x * *
“Old Q.”: Brisbane has always been noted
for the regal nomenclature of its streets.
Among the city thoroughfares three queens
are commemorated: Elizabeth, Anne and
Adelaide; and Queen-street itself had Vic-
toria for godmother. Then there are George,
Edward and Albert streets, this last having
taken its title from the Prince Consort —
rather unfortunately, considering many years
of its history. However, the palm has now-
been borne away by a block in the suburb
of East Brisbane. Down one side runs Vic-
toria-terrace, and it is intersected by
Emperor, King, Prince, Duke, Marquis, Earl,
Baron and Knight streets.
»jc v H*
“E.E.”: Fright has effect upon human
hair other than turning it white (B.
19/3/’3O). A butcher’s hand at Edgecliff
(N.S.W.) received an electric shock which
sent him whirling ceilingwards before deposit-
ing him unconscious on the floor. After a
long course of medical treatment, he recov-
ered ; but his hair has stood on end ever
since.
x x x
“Jack Stirrup”: Towards the end of the
week’s jamboree two of the roysterers looked
apprehensively at their companion, who
seemed to be losing interest. They got
him to bed without much trouble, and
watched him furtively for a wdiile. He
seemed to be in a bad way. “D’ye see
s-snakes crawlin’ about?” Bill asked. “An’
beetles an’ spiders,” Ted interposed. “No,”
sleepily grunted the patient. “’E mus' be
crook,” Bill whispered. “’E can’t see ’em,
and they’re ev’rywhere."
x x x x
“Runa”: A young Wellington (M.L.)
couple had a unique wedding on a recent
Saturday night. Up to a certain point all
was orthodox —bridegroom waiting, guests
seated, clergyman present, bride and ’maids
just about to enter the cathedral. Then the
lights went out. In pitch darkness everyone
waited until candles were procured, and the
bride was guided up the aisle. One enthusi-
ast produced a torch and pressed it on the
bridegroom, w T ho declined the mediaeval illu-
mination, preferring matches. Guests like-
wise struck matches, and the proceedings
went ahead quite pleasantly until the cere-
mony -was complete. Then the lights came
on.
* x * *
“Oura Oura”: Jones, who lives in our
street, is no saint, and Mrs. Jones vowed
to the neighborhood that she would leave
him “if the brute would only give me some
good evidence.” One night, when the rain
was pouring down and the wind was howling
in good old melodrama style, Jones’s voice
was heard booming above the storm. Piercing
screams followed, and we all rushed out. A
white figure came flying down the road with
Jones in hot pursuit. The men grabbed him,
but not before he had caught Mrs. Jones and
hurled her into the mud. We women brought
her in and soothed her, and began to wash
the mud from her bare arms. She stopped
us in horror. “Don’t do that,” she cried;
“that’s me evidence.”
“Taltingan”: Willie Maiden, who, falling
sick in Adelaide at 82, asked to be taken
back to Menindie, on the Darling, to die,
was an old inhabitant in those parts when
Sharlie Rasp, the German boundary-rider,
persuaded George McCulloch and the other
chaps on Mt. Gipps to throw in a few pounds
and take up Broken Hill. Maiden and his
turn brothers had been over the country often ;
but anybody would know that this black
stuff wasn’t silver or lead. There had been
a good deal of talk about those metals
because of Sunny Corner; and Paddy Green,
who kept the store at Menindie, used to tell
the teamstei’s to keep their eyes open. One
day a bullocky brought in some heavy, shiny
stuff—stuff that looked as though it might
be darned near all silver. That came from
a small station called Thackaringa; and
Paddy and Willie Maiden had a waggon-
load of it brought in to the river. But the
boat it was on sank, and the stuff was never
got out. Still, the sight of it rather whetted
Willie Maiden’s appetite, and when the
Mt. Gipps crowd did some pegging Maiden
thought lie would have a cut too. He went
down to the south end and pegged out a few
blocks, and presently some mugs came to
him and insisted on giving him £3OOO for
his interest. Willie Maiden, as straight a
little bushman as ever swapped a horse, told
me he “couldn’t sleep real well for weeks”
thinking that perhaps they’d pinched the
money. lie might easily have got three mil-
lions for the blocks many times since. But
that sort of thing was too exciting for Willie
Maiden. He retired on his base at Menin-
die, where lie owned, among other things, the
pub at which Burke and Wills made their
first depot. The pub wasn’t all built in
those days; but their office was Willie
Maiden’s office for many years.
* =!= * *
“Wollard” : The Speck is at last to have
an aerodrome, complete with hangars and
clubhouse, at Western Junction, near Laun-
ceston. A Tas. section of the Aust. Aero
Club was formed two years ago, but so far
its members have been unable to take to
the air owing to lack of a proper landing
ground. The ’drome will serve a double pur-
pose, as a co. proposes to start a Bass
Strait air service early in April. At Hobart
the passenger-mail ’plane will alight on the
Derwent, but, pending the completion of
Launceston’s ’drome, arrangements for the
northern end of the island are uncertain.
The Southampton supermarines dropped
down neatly on the Tamar; but whether this
could be done as a general thing is doubtful.
Among the preliminary work at the new
aerodrome was the removal of hawthorn
hedges planted nearly a century ago.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: The Bunkum Advertising
Co. had been notified that the bailiff would
swoop down on it unless it paid something
off the arrears of rent. By an odd co-
incidence the landlord had just let another
suite to the Strongjoint Publicity Co. There
was great activity in the Bunkum offices that
evening. The caretaker was told that a
meeting of creditors was taking place, but
being of a suspicious nature he put a watch
on the lower stairs, lifts and exits to make
sure that no portable possessions such as
typewriters were shifted. Vast was his
astonishment next morning when, entering
the offices armed with authority as a bailiff,
he found them bare. It was days before
he realised that the supposed meeting of
creditors had emptied the Bunkum furniture
and fittings into the Strongjoint suite, though
he found himself unable to sWear to the
stuff for the purpose of seizure. The Bun-
kum Co. has ceased to be a pillar of our
economic system; and as the same people,
who are now the Strongjoint Co., have paid
a month in advance, the landlord can only
look sour and mutter inwardly about “un-
principled scoundrels.”
“HOW, TO-”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Eugene Christian, America’s most famous
dietician and author of ‘How to Live 100 Years,’ has
died of pneumonia at 69.”
Although a wooden leg has lie,
Tom Tiddler’s book on “Roller Skates”
Has won such wide celebrity
They print it now on stereo-plates.
Though deaf and likewise dumb, I fear,
His “How to Grip an Audience,”
Acclaimed the textbook of the' year,
Has brought Tom Truffles fame and pence.
The world of Flapperdom just raves
O’er “Talks with Girls,” by “Auntie Kit”;
Though “Auntie” wears pink shirts, and
shaves,
He always gets away with it.
My “Wilds of Patagonia”
Abounds in realism stark,
Although my wildest trip, so far,
Was on the Dipper, Luna Park.
Cricket authorities are heard
Whose blobs outnumber katydids ;
And maiden aunts the final word
Enunciate on rearing kids.
VICTORIA.
WAWIIERESH .


Clarence Cafeteria’’: Several Melbourne
cates now provide mannequin parades at
alternoon-tea. One even supplies them with
lunch. A curtain is hung at the end of
the room, a band strikes up something jazzy,
the lights are dimmed, and in a voluptuous
glow half a dozen assorted houris come
forth to sway, wriggle and waddle between
the chairs. This may please the.women, but
after one or two experiences bored men may
be found lunching at the nearest bar. They
are apt to consider the show’ less suggestive
of Edenish delights than of plain ragshop
bills.
* * * *
“Avon”: Recently I had the job of wading
through a MS. history of the career —if
churches do career —of the Anglican Church in
Maoriland. Its principal dramatic interest is
confined to the perpetual fight between High
Church and Low, and the chronicle, which I
estimate would fill 18 fat tomes, has only
two bright spots. In 1892 a very nervous
gentleman arose in a Synod committee of
laymen, and referred to Bishop Julius as
Jupip Bishilus (“it wms some time
before order could be restored”), and in
1899 the low-browed printer who had to do
a rush order for hymn-leaflets for a mission
service at the cathedral perpetrated the line
“May grace to us be given to follow in a
train” in a hymn wdiich was written before
railways were thought of, and which in the
original adjured all to note the noble army
of saints and martyrs, and “follow in their
train.”
* * * *
“Shep” : While Figures balanced his cash
at his high desk, Sissy the typist, her chair
propped back against his share of the office
furniture, peeped furtively at a novel. The
boss paid us in sovereigns that week—l don’t
know how he got them—and one slid off the
desk on to the sweet thing’s shoulder.
Figures dashed round to retrieve it. “Must
have rolled off on to the carpet,” Sissy said,
SLIM AND SLIMMER.
THE DIETING ONE: “I lost a stone last month.”
HER DEAREST FRIEND: “Oh, darling! Out of which ring?”
resuming her studies. Thoughts of being a
pound short when he greeted the missus sent
the loser on hands and knees over every inch
of tin; floor, and when he drew a blank Sissy
was further irritated by a series of “Aherns.”
“Think. I’ve got it, do you?” she snarled.
“Have a good look now.” With that she
hopped out of her chair and raised her absurd
skirt, revealing a startling length of bloomer.
It was a delicate subject for Figures to pur-
sue further ; still, a pound was a pound, and
he braved it. “Not that I think you’re keep-
ing it on purpose,” he explained. “But couldn't
you—er —-stand on your hands for a minute
so it can roll out that end?” An infuriated
typist stormed into the boss’s vacant sanctum
and slammed the door. Followed a minute’s
rustling, with lots of activity barely visible
through the frosted glass; then sovereign and
sundry mutterings came flying over the par-
tition.
* #. * *
“Ostrich” : A Digger corrupted the English
garden-city where I used to live. He was
on leave and staying next door to us. That
1910-17 winter brought a polar atmosphere
to England, and the municipal estate —it had
a northern aspect—received every blizzard
that blew. Our Idea] Homes were the pride
A HARD WORLD.
FIRST INFANT: “Yes, I’ve told them what I want for my birthday—a bicycle and a
doll an’ a pram an’”-
SECOND DITTO: “Yes, an’ I know what I’ll get. Some hankies to blow me nose, a com[?]
for me hair and a book about being tidy.”
of the Mayor’s heart —it was nefariously
reported that he had owned a half-share in
the land on which they were built —and he
himself had selected a seasoned chestnut
fencing that harmonised with the architec-
ture. Coal that year was scarcer than
rubies, but we knew the corporation had
a stock. One morning a deputation tramped
through the snow to his Ludsliip, only to
receive a knockback that made the day warm
by comparison. We went meekly home and
informed our wives and families that there
was nothing for it but to break up the
furniture, and then sit in our overcoats for
another six months or so. But I think our
overseas visitor must have misunderstood
the message. At any rate, within two seconds
lie was at one of the stacks of palings that
the contractor had left in readiness ; and mob
instinct did the rest. Doors opened, heads
craned, and the white expanse became like
a football scrum for half an hour. I often
wondered what the Mayor said when he heard
of the disappearance of liis fencing; but I
must admit that chestnut burns beautifully.
s|: * * * ■
“Pawang”: The bewilderment of “Ano-
pheles” and “Feng-Shui” (B. 12/3/’3O) over
the fact that some of their friends throw off
malaria with ease
while others suffer hor-
ribly may be easily
explained. There are
three general types of
malaria. Two are
grouped together for
convenience and called
“benign,” the third
“malignant.” T li e
parasites of the benign
forms seldom cause the
pernicious attacks of
fever which distinguish
the malignant kind
and repeated visita-
tions of which induce
the dreaded black-
water. The parasites
of two varieties are
frequently found in
the same person; a
doctor in Malaya told
me he once found ail
three in the one host.
In the country where
the Prince has been
shooting lions and
rapids, one man’s
blood may nourish not
only the parasites of
a couple of brands of
malaria, but the spiro-
clisetes of relapsing
fever and the trypano-
somes of sleeping sick-
ness.
* =l=
“Pip Tok” : “Sixen-
ate’s” story of the
p rison cook (B.
26/2/’3O) reminds me
of the plaint of an
Anglican prison choir-
master in the New-
castle gaol, “We're
very weak in basses,”
he informed the chap-;
lain. “Thought we
might have had a bit
o’ luck after the last
quarter sessions; but
not a chance of it.”
All the new boarders
belonged to other denominations.
❖ % ❖ , ❖
“M.G.S.” : The brotherly love which exists
between Meldrumites and non-Meldrumites
in Melbourne has reached the point of per-
sonalities, Blamire Young, anti-Meldrumite,
opening the attack with a slighting reference
in a “Herald” art criticism to Archibald Col-
quhoun’s deplorable llabit of growing a
beard. As the pace becomes hotter we may
expect to read this sort of thing :
Mr. Mahlstiek’s latest exhibition is a brilliant
illustration of the fact, well known to all artists of
good taste, that a man cannot be a bounder and a
good painter at one and the same time. , Mr.
Mahlstiek has some slight facility in the rendering
of planes, but how much better would he have
recorded the subtle tonal values of “The Youyangs
by Moonlight” had he been a member of the Mel-
bourne Club. In “Nude Emerging from the Bath”
Mr. Mahlstick is obviously hampered by his ignorance
of form, as exemplified by the fact that he was
seen at the opera a week ago wearing a white tie
with a dinner coat. Still-life is undoubtedly Mr.
Mahlstick’s strongest point; but there again how
difficult it is to contemplate his “Bunch of Asparagus”
with pleasure while remembering the last occasion
when he saw this artist eating that vegetable with
a knife and fork.
“F.S.”: Touching the habit of glassing
pictures (B. 12/3/’3O). As far as I know
the only artists who consistently avoid this
practice are the Meldrumites, which recalls
the occasion when Meldrum and Justus
Jorgensen, now painting in Melbourne, went
to the Wallace Collection in London to
inspect a recently-acquired Velasquez. After
attempting without success to circumvent the
reflections from every ordinary angle, the
two painters lay down on their stomachs on
the floor, from whence they obtained an
untrammelled view. Nobody in Melbourne,
by the way, has yet seen the whole of Corot’s
“Bent Tree” at one and the same time. Even
from the best position obtainable what one
principally gets is a masterly reproduction
of the brass rail which runs along the wall.
* * , * *
“Gad”: Sydney rules of social etiquette
are a standing mystery to me. In the Public
Library one sweltering day I took off my
coat, and was sternly bidden to put it on
again. Yet I could go in there without socks
(I have done so), waistcoat, collar or tie
and nothing would be said. 1 could keep
my hat on there, and go to sleep and snore
loudly without being disturbed. I could visit
the place without any intention of doing
anything but sleeping, but I must not take
off any of my apparel in the library. And
yet I can walk up William-street in bathers
and a dressing-gown and nobody will inter-
fere.
$ $ $ ❖
“Uramao”: A fine old blioy owned the
Harp of Erin, and on the l(ith of March
(the 17th fell on a Sunday) he proudly
placed a plate of shamrocks on the bar
counter, well saturated in water to preserve
their freshness. A bearded German breasted
the bar and ordered beer. Presently Hogan
waved his hand towards the plate in direct-
ing the attention of some of his countrymen
to the fine exhibit of the trefoil. The plate
was clean. “Phwat have ye done with me
shamrocks?” Hogan wailed, addressing Hans.
“Shamrogs? Shamrogs?” Hans replied. “V’y
I eat heem. I t’ink dey vater-cresses!”
* * * *
“Spare Corp.”: A case in which a Chinese,
William Young, was fined at Grafton (N.S.W.)
for having posed as a returned soldier showed
how careful an impostor has to be when giv-
ing details of A.I.F. service. It was proved
that the transport by which he claimed to
have travelled did not carry troops from
Australia, and that on its five trips with
returned men there was no Bill Young
answering his description. It was mentioned,
incidentally, that 797 Youngs enlisted, and
that the Bills numbered 21. of whom eight
were killed. Yet the Youngs were a minor
clan compared with the Smiths, the Clarks,
Macdonalds and Johnsons. Apparently they
did not have their numbers inflated to any
extent by the kind of soldier who took an
“enlistment name” and generally favored
a common one.
$ $ $ ' *
“Tributer” : A recently-retired Vic. reliev-
ing stationmaster was famous for his replies
to “blisters.” On one occasion he had to
load a consignment of pigs. They were a
refractory lot, and to avoid serious delay
to the mixed train that was picking them
up he shoved them into the bottom tiers of
four trucks instead of loading top and bottom
tiers of two. Head office wrote “Please
explain why you used four trucks for the
pigs, thus causing unnecessary mileage, etc.”
Ilis answer was: “The little gentlemen abso-
lutely refused to go upstairs.”
* * * *
“Centurion”: If published accounts are
accurate, the automatic rifle which the
British Army has been testing for some time
must be a wonderful weapon. It is as light
and short as the present Lee-Enfield M.R.,
but takes a clip of 10 cartridges working
laterally through the breech, on the prin-
ciple of the French Hotchkiss rifle used by
some Australian units during the Great War.
As with most automatics, recoil is taken
up by the breech mechanism, and the ten-
dency in recruits to become “gun-shy” is
eliminated.,.. To avoid wastage, as in the
case of-the- Lewis, the trigger must be
pressed for each shot. This permits aimed
fire up to 50 rounds a minute, whereas a
trained marksman with the Lee-Enfield was
' only asked to attain 15 rounds, thoug.i
experts could accomplish 30. The manual
working of the bolt, the handicap w r ith the
older rifle, is automatic in the now, with
the result that it is far easier to keep on
the target.
❖ $ ;-c
“Uramao”: A paper to voice Maori public
opinion was decided on at a tribal gathering
at Te Waimate (North Auckland) recently,
and an old printing-press that had been
stored away since the treaty of Waitangi
days is being polished up by the Young
Maori party. Back in the ’sixties, John
Gorst, Civil Commissioner of the Waikato,
used to issue a paper in Maori, putting his
side of the controversy before the brown
public. It was called “Te Pihoihoi Moke-
moke” (“The Lonely Lark”). The Kingite
Maoris countered Gorst by issuing a paper
called “Te Hokioi” (“The - Mythical Bird”).
The Lonely Lark and the Mythical Bird
pecked at each other till something particu-
larly exasperating in “The Lark” caused
The Mythical Bird” party to swoop down
on it and carry away the whole concern—
Press, stock and barrel of ink. The pen
having failed, the sword was then unsheathed.
* =l= * *
“Oxmead” : Throw an eye over Macaulay's
forecast of 1930, written just 100 years ago
in the essay on Southey’s “Colloquies on
Society”:—
If we were to prophesy that in the year 1930 a
population of 60,000,000. .. .will cover these islands,
that Sussex and Huntingdonshire will be wealthier
than the wealthiest parts of the West Riding of
Yorkshire now are, that cultivation rich as that of
a flower garden will be carried up to the very top
of Ben Nevis and Helvellyn, that there will be no
highways but railways, no travelling hut by steam,
that our debt, vast as it seems to us, will appear
to our great-grandchildren a trifling encumbrance
which might easily be paid off in a year or two,
many people would think us insane. We prophesv
nothing, but
And lie goes on to show that such a pre-
diction would be reasonable .enough, in the
light of wlmt 1830 could show 1730 and so
back. Macaulay couldn’t or didn’t foresee
motor and aerial transport, and be was
perhaps a bit too sanguine with regard to
the cultivation of mountain tops, but in most
other, respects he peered into the future with
rare insight. When he wrote the population
of the British Isles was about 24,000,000;
at next year’s census it is estimated that it
will touch 49,000,000. And what a trifling-
encumbrance does the National Debt of 1830
(£700,000,000) appear to the U.K. of 1930
with something over £7,000,000,000 to worry
about!
* '!• :!; *
“D.C.M.”: Long-distance a.w.l. cases? A
Second Division man arrived in England
about the end of 1916 and was drafted to a
battalion in France. Returned almost
immediately to England for medical over-
haul. he broke camp and disappeared for
496 days, after which he fell into the hands
of the military police. He was tried by
d.c.m., found not guilty and acquitted, to
triumphantly draw his 496 days’ back pay.
As a rheumatic case he had been medically
HER HELPING HAND.
“Really, I sometimes seriously consider
entering the Church.”
“Oh do, and I shall give you my sole mar-
riage rights!”
boarded prior to liis embarkation from Aus-
tralia, but was found fit for service. He
really wanted to fight, and after he had taken
French leave he fell sick in London and was
cared for by an aged female relative. Her
evidence and the evidence of a civilian doctor
as to his long illness convinced the Court
that he could not be held accountable for the
offence charged; he was, moreover, under
a death sentence with acute heart trouble.
As prosecutor I heartily agreed with the
verdict.
* * * *
“Frostyfoam”: Some years ago the West-
ralian Health Department, in its desperate
anxiety that all comestibles sold should be
true to label, started a campaign against the
vendors of alleged ice-creams which,
analysis had shown, very seldom had any
genuine cream in them. There were several
prosecutions, but it was notified that if the
wares were merely advertised and sold as
“ices” the transaction was within the law,
with the result that any would-be customer
who used the longer term was regarded
apprehensively by shop- and stall-keepers as
a possible health inspector seeking to trap
them. At this stage some matter-of-fact
newspaper asked why the embargo wasn't
extended to chocolate cream, which, every-
body knew, had nothing resembling cream in
it. The department, after some hard think-
ing, decided to lift the ban.
TAKING RISKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wm Australian women be content with fashions
months behind the times,’ asked a London dress
designer, because Australian importers find them-
selves unable to advance money to London to import
ne\v models? The Government and banks will find
that women will not allow credit restrictions that
will keep them dowdy.’ ’’—Cable.
Consider well, ye rash economists,
Xhe dreadful hazards into which you’re
heading*,
When thus foolhardily you take the lists
And fling the gage to fate. Are you not
treading
Such paths_ as angels commonly avoid
-nr r( J ckloss liaste to regulate, finances?
Were there no safer plans to be employed?
Ihe need is great, but—gosh, you'r e taking
chances!
Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned”
fc>ave only that of woman unadorned.
Behold! I see a war without a truce.
A vision is upon me, vivid, vatic,
Of dowdy amazons and Hell let loose
(h orgive me if I seem a shade emphatic),
And screaming bankers pelt up ev’ry path,
And portly politicians gasp and waddle
rn-n S<: can from the pursuing wrath,
1 ilt each is str-r-rangled with a last year’s
model!
Think not to dodge, with rhetoric impas-
sioned,
The rage of woman forced to be old-fashioned.
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


ADELAIDE’S
Most Modern Hotel
THE
HOTEL BOTANIC
NORTH TERRACE, CITY.
Delightfully Situated
Garden Frontage
Balcony Rooms
All Latest Appointments.
Favoured Designs in Diamond Rings at £2O.
mmmm
m
■
Fairfax & Roberts s selection of Diamond Rings offers unrivalled value. The
diamonds are selected for their fire and color, and are imported direct from
famous cutters. The settings of pure platinum and rings of 18ct. gold are
made in our own workrooms.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
23-25 Hunter Street.
Meet WIN. FOWLES,
who o tiers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner a
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive tariff from 13/6
per day, or £4/4/- weekly. Special quotations for
sporting bodies, etc. Situated right opposite Spencer
Street Station; no taxi fares; railway porter carries
baggage across if necessary. Please write for
detailed tariff card. Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is
sufficient address.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Howlett Ross, the new chief president of
Vic. A.N.A., is an elderly, picturesque figure,
a well-known authority on elocution and
wireless broadcasting. He has written a
biograph of Lindsay Gordon, and is editor
and proprietor of the “Australian Financial
Gazette.”
'The mills of God don’t grind half as slowly
as the British War Office occasionally
manages to do. G. Galway, of Colac (Vic.),
is a war veteran, and lately l’eceived notice
that in return for meritorious military ser-
vice he was to receive a medal and £lO a
year for the rest of his life. The scrap he
served in was the one with Kruger.
A very eai’ly Maoriland poetess died the
other day, aged 82. She was the widow of James
Glenny Wilson Knight, president of M.L.
Farmers’ Union and member of Parliament
in the ’eighties and ’nineties. Her _ first
volume of verse, “Themes and Variations,”
was published in London in 1889, but much
of it was written years before that. The
anthologies of Bertram Stevens contain three
of her poems, and Walter Murdoch’s collec-
tion has embalmed two.
Died after a long illness, William Moffatt,
general manager of the Primary Producers'
Bank, aged only 52. Moffatt, a northerner,
was an inspector in the Bank of Queensland
when the latter was absorbed by the
National; and, though the National left him
in Brisbane as sub-manager, he decided to
take his chances with a new bank in a
lai’ger city. His reputation as a sound
banker, brought up in a conservative school,
has been a great asset to the P.P. in its
years of early struggle, and his death will
mean a great loss to it.
Frank Gardiner, one of the picturesque
figures of the mining boom of the early
’nineties, has just died in Paris, aged 78.
Carrie Swain, a stage favorite of The Bul-
letin’s early days, gave Frank his start, or
Frank gave Carrie her start; anyway, they
blazed togcthei*, and nobody knew which was
responsible for their rather sudden emerg-
ence as big holders in one or two young
Westralian ventures. Gardiner had a hand
in interesting Paris in Kalgoorlie, and he
handled his cards well enough to be made
chairman of the Perseverance. But he
splashed, money too freely, and after a bad
crash he retired to Paris, where lie had lived
for over 20 years past.
“Bill O’C.” on some old-time spouters:—
Mention of “a certain Rowland Rees” (B. 5/3/’3O)
is a reminder that in the ’eighties the South Aus.
Assembly spent a lot of its time listening to the
rhetoric of the said Rees and two other windy
members, Ebenezer Ward and John Langdon Par-
sons. All had some of the instability that some-
how goes with vocal fluency. Parsons did best.
He graduated for politics through a Baptist Bethel,
and, though a graceful and polished speaker, never
quite lost the pulpit manner. He had one or two
spells of office and finished as Resident of the N.T.
One of his sons, Angas Parsons, is on the S.A.
Supreme Court bench; another is the vehement if
diminutive Freetrader who waved his arms in the
House of Reps, until dislodged by Moses Gabb.
Ward had an extraordinarily diversified career; at
his gaudiest period he was a Minister under J. P.
Boucaut, and at his humblest a dweller in the out-
skirts of journalism. His style and habits made him
a great target for the caricaturist and satirist, and
lie never really survived them. Rees was as glib as
either of the others, but careless of facts. An archi-
tect by profession, he had not the slightest con-
structive ability in public affairs, and no building
he ever reared was as unstable on its base as flis
rhetorical periods. The S.A. Legislature has had
many longer talkers, like Vaiben Solomon, Levvis
Cohen and George Ash, many pleasantly persuasive
ones, like John Downer and John Gordon, and a
few fierily earnest ones, like Boucaut and Kingston,
but never three contemporaries with a greater output
of picturesque words per hour.
Gerhardt Laves, a young American scient-
ist who has just put in six months’ work
on the language of one of the northern
tribes of aborigines, goes next to a station
south of Broome (W.A.) to pursue his
researches. Ralph Piddiugton, son of the
N.S.W. Industrial Commissioner and a
student of Prof. Radcliff Brown, of the
Sydney Uni., will accompany him. Charles'
Hart, another Sydney anthropologist, re-
turned from similar work in the Nor’-West
quite recently. All three are beneficiaries of
the Rockefeller foundation.
There will be special mourning amongst
the Jews over the death of Lord Balfour.
It was the Balfour Declaration which gave
the Zionist movement for the re-establish-
ment of Palestine as a Jewish national home
a real world standing. One of the Palestine
settlements is named Balfouria in his honor;
and a Balfour Forest is being planted.
CAN’T GET AWAY FROM THEM.
CROWD OF NEW ARRIVALS: “What’s the matter with the gatekeeper this morning?"
BOOK-KEEPER: “Oh, you’ll have to wait a while He’s just slipped out to a stop-work
meeting.”
Passed out at 72, Thomas Henry Ai-m-
-,strong, Bishop of the Anglican See of Wan-
garatta (Vic.) from its creation in 1902
to his retirement three years ago. Born at
Dublin, he was brought to Australia young,
his father being a well-know’n Melbourne bar-
rister in his day.
Premier Hogan towered above all the 360
delegates from all parts of Vic. at the
A.N.A. conference at Echuca last week. Dr.
Argyle, acting-Opposition leader, was there,
too, but though he is a metropolitan repre-
sentative he was not so pleased as Hogan at
the declaration of the Natives in favor of
electoral reform that will give the metropolis
five more seats and the counti-y five less.
Staniforth Smith was coi-dially farewelled
by every section in Port Moresby before his
departure for his Westralian farm. Among
the many gifts he carried away was one
from the London Mission natives, an “Album
of Papuan Memox-ies,” bound in painted tapa
cloth and enclosing a beautifully engrossed
address.
Born at Parramatta in 1830, dying
at Hobart last week, Mrs. Jane Harroid
was one of the few with first-hand recollec-
tions of the Speck's bad old days. When she
was a child there were public floggings as
well as hangings outside the old gaol, near
the corner of Murray and Macquarie streets.
Gandhi can claim a long history of peri-
patetic opposition to the British Raj. In
India he has been alternately a help and a
hindrance to the civil power, one moment
inaugurating non-co-operation and the next
indulging in a fast as an atonement for the
violence of his followers or the rioting be-
tween Moslems and Hindus. The news that
he had started on a fast stopped a strike
in Bombay. He has enormous pi-estige, and
the drivers of trains he happens to be travel-
ling on proceed with the greatest caution for
fear of running over the bodies of worship-
pers who lie across the line in order to stop
and adore the saint. Following his own doc-
trine of non-violence, he never takes pro-
ceedings against the man who knocks him
down, and the national reflection of that atti-
tude was shown in the Punjab, when Sikh
passive x-esisters, many of them old soldiers
who had served in the war, marched up in
an attitude of prayer to the police defending
a shrine and allowed themselves to be struck
down, rank on rank. While directing his
movements Gandhi cooks his own food,
weaves his own loincloth and peels his own
spuds. He is a tough nut for any Govern-
ment to crack, for millions regard him as
a god.
“ Jeames”:—
Australia would like J. H. Thomas if he was
appointed G.-G. in succession to Lord Stonehaven,
as London “Daily Mirror’’ suggested last week. The
present Lord Privy Seal is certainly the most
adaptable man who has held the job ; he is perhaps
the most adaptable man in England. He is shortish,
tubb.V, an imperturbable smiler, and the possessor of
a rich Cockney wit and accent. He modifies his
accent to suit his company. At a gathering of
railway porters he drops his “h’s’’ and is interested
primarily in his hearers’ troubles ; at one of Lady Astor’s
Cliveden week-ends he blends with the house-party
and is primarily interested in stocks and shares.
For he is a capitalist. I heard him speak after
Lord Birkenhead at an Australia House function
shortly before the Earl left politics for the city,
their speeches consisting chiefly .of friendly jeers
at each other. Birkenhead is all Oxford culture
and Thomas pure Board School, yet such is the
latter’s charm and humor that he was pleasanter
to listen to than the ex-Lord Chancellor.
T. W. Delves, the doyen of, Fitzroy
Council —he has sat there without a break fox-
-37 years—was given a birthday party by
his colleagues the other night on his passing
his 80th milestone. He landed in Melbourne
75 years ago, and lived for a time on the
site of the present Town Hall. In those
days a tribe of rather quarrelsome abos.
camped where Flinders-street railway station
now stands, and the octogenarian stripped
his sleeve and showed his scars received in
a mix-up with the blacks when he was a
very small boy.
Bronislaw Malinowski, author of an out-
standing work on one of Australia’s insular
possessions x-ecently published by Rou tledge,
round the Public Library’s admirable collec-
tion of books on the South Sea. Malinowski
was once closely associated with Baldwin
Spencer, but, being a field-worker himself, he
came to the conclusion that Spencer’s reputa-
tion had been made by the practical Gillen,
and neglected to keep it to himself. The
result was a flaming row between two very
hot-headed scientists. Malinowski is a Pole
with the Pole’s usual linguistic abilities. He
speaks English like an Oxford don and Aus-
tralian as well as a resident of Collingwood.
The death of Henry Bruce Lefroy, at 75,
leaves his bi-other-in-law, Edward Wittenoom,
the only survivor of the 13 men who held
office at one time or another in John Fori-est’s
long-distance Westralian Ministry, which
lasted from the granting of responsible gov-
ernment in IS9O to the dawn of Federation
in 1901. Lefroy succeeded Wittenoom, first
as Minister of Mines and later as Agent-
General ; he returned to the Assembly to
become Premier for a couple of yeai-s at the
end of the war. He was a kindly soul; few
were held in higher pei’sonal regard. His
interests wei-e entirely pastoral, and there
was something of the irony of fate that put
him at the head of the Mines Department
when he had never pi’eviously descended any-
thing except a well. A keen sportsman in
his younger days, he returned from an Eng-
lish public school to Walebing, the family
property, determined to teach the local abos.
something of cricket, and found them unex-
pectedly apt pupils.
Adolphus Judd was N.S.W.’s leading owner
of show jumpers a quarter of a century ago.
He leapt into fame in a day by buying all
11. D. Morton’s so-called hunters (including
the immortal grey Desmond) and several
from other owners.
Thereafter, Judd tra-
velled about the shows
with his string, and
cleaned up most of
the events for which
he entered his animals.
Desmond and the pony
Thumbs Up were his
best-known performers.
Desmond was a popu-
lar idol (chiefly on
account of his artful-
ness), and was still
winning at 18; and
Thumbs Up, a 14-
hands pony, jumped
7ft. 4in. at Brisbane
10 years ago. Judd
was a heavyweight
farmer, and, like Mor-
ton, never rode over a
fence in his life.
Colonel William
Mackenzie, who takes
control of Salv’army
affairs on the
Southern Australian
front, was one of the
most popular padres
with the A.I.F. at
Gallipoli, where he
won the sobriquet of
“Fighting Mac.” When
the war was over he
showed himself a
zealous director of the
Army Welfare work
for needy Diggers.
Since then he has been
in charge of the move-
ment in Northern
China of the S.A.
forces there. He has
Colonel Walter Sut-
tor with him as chief
secretary in his new billet; thus two Aus-
tralian natives will hold a command for
the first time in the history of the Salv’army
in these parts.
George Bodkin, dead in Sydney at 62, was
one of the original organisers of the Railway
Workers and General Laborers’ Union. He
was secretary of the latter from the time
when it became a branch of the A.W.U.
until a couple of years ago. He ran several
times for Parliament, but never got there.
E. J. Sweetman, who signed off in Queens-
land the other day at 72, was another of
those rapidly passing mounted policemen who
cut such a figure in the days of Queensland’s
goldfields and in the later cattle-duffing
period. A north of Ireland man, he joined
the Queensland M.P. in 1881, and was one
of the members of the gold escort which took
the stuff from the roaring fields of Charters
Towers and liavCnswood to Townsville.
When the rail connection wiped out the
necessity for the escort, young Sweetman was
plunged into the heart of the Queensland
cattle country of those days in a district
which embraced St. George, Roma and Surat.
Promotion came, and his handling of an ugly
situation in the St. George country in the
shearers’ great strike of 1891 brought him the
unique honor of the thanks of both houses
of the State Parliament. A quiet, tactful
personality, ho ended his career as a first-
class inspector after serving from the Gulf
to Goondiwindi.
ARTHUR BALFOUR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A gallant figure in the years long past
When, rich in gifts and youth, he took the
stage—
Aye, and a gallant figure to the last,
Though bowed and bent with age.
Trifler they called him once, forecast no place
For dilettants in high affairs of State,
And guessed beneath that careless, courtly
grace
Something effeminate.
They came to know, who doubted and who
scoffed,
The tireless will through darkest ways to
win.
What matter though the glove was velvet-
soft,
The hand was iron within.
For many a year through faction’s storm and
stress
He moves; he lives through many a chang-
ing scene,
Unspoiled and unelated by success
As in defeat serene.
Bast, as the trusted councillor of all.
When party strife the stricken land fore-
bpre,
See him the Nestor of the council hall
In those dark days of war.
Lay him, a knightly figure, to his rest.
Above the grave a thousand tributes blend
For one who gave his country of his best
In service rich and faith made manifest
Unto the journey’s end.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burjlcry, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etr.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fu9a
Detonators
Cartridges
FOR 43 YEARS
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
HAS BEEN IN BUSINESS AS A CORPORATE TRUSTEE.
&^ itS f T 0r r 0 r ion i ? eVCr been held liab,e b y the Courts for a
breach of 1 rust of any description.
Company acts as EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE UNDFR WII I S
ADMINISTRATOR IN INTESTACY, ATTORNEY UNDER POWER AGENT
ETC., ETC. ’ ’
WRITE FOR. EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Manager:
H. V. DOUGLASS.
Managing Director:
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
To the Man who says —
“My Business is Different”
Alexander
Hamilton
Institute
Courses
p'RANKL’i, the time has come
when this complacent attitude
must be abandoned. Far more
vigorous trading conditions, in-
creased competition, new tariff
scales—these and other conditions
arising out of the modern economic-
situation must be faced—and
overcome.
The Alexander Hamilton Institute
Courses and Service do help you
to meet and overcome all prob-
lems. They provide the most
valuable encyclopaedia of business
knowledge that any man could
hope to own. Write to-day for
the 78-p.p. book, “Forging Ahead
in Business,” which gives full par-
ticulars.
Controlled in Australia by
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON.
MELBOURNE: 38 Bank House, Bank Plane
410-12 Collins Street, C.l.
SYDNEY: 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack
Street.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
This Week’s Investment Tip.
‘‘My broker,” says a man writing to The
Bulletin’s Service Department—“my broker
advises me to sell all my shares as per list
enclosed. Can you suggest what the future
will be?”
Of course, nobody can speak of the future
wit]i any certainty at all. All we know is
that we are in the present mess because our
imports have so greatly exceeded our exports,
and for the moment we can’t borrow to make
up the difference. Our future, therefore,
depends on (1) whether we produce and
export more; (2) whether we cut down our
imports, and to what extent; (3) whether
John Bull resumes lending to us.
(1) This depends partly on the seasons,
partly on the _ Australian people working
harder and cutting down costs of production,
thus enabling them to compete in foreign
markets. At present there does not seem
to be any wide recognition of the fact that
a reduction of costs is necessary. Still, per-
haps, that doesn’t matter; costs may be
reduced without that recognition. Men
know that jobs are hard to get, and those
who are in jobs are working harder to keep
them. At the same time rents are falling—
almost collapsing—in some districts; and
this will make reduction of costs easier, be-
cause a man will be as well off though he
gets a shilling or two a day less.
(2) The banks and the tariff are helping
here.
(3) Loans may not be necessary; but
mucli will depend on whether and on what
terms we can get them if we do need them.
Ihe London market for Australian stocks
is still very sick; but there is enough time
to show London that we have learned our
lesson. , If work is resumed at the N.S W
northern mines on anything like the old
scale, and as a result of the old hands
reapplying for their jobs, it will be likely
to have an enormous effect on London. In
that case it is almost certain we shall not
be allowed to crash for want of money to
pay our interest.
Melbourne felt trade depression all last
year; now Sydney’s trade conditions are sud-
denly worse than Melbourne’s. This sug-
gests that Sydney is panicky, and is there-
tore liable to presently recover more or less.
As aids to that recovery (it may be only
temporary) three things are visible: (a)
there were very heavy imports a few months
ago, and the money they represent will be
released within the next few months- (b)
the comparatively high deposit rate in’ Aus-
tralia and the difficulty of sending money
away are causing much capital hitherto ex-
ported (by oil and other cos. and by foreign
insurance offices) to be retained in Australia
for investment; and (e) the early promise
tor the next harvest and clip is good, and
this will unbutton many pockets that would
otherwise be fastened tight.
In all the circumstances, though the deep-
est depression may not have been reached
it seems likely that there wall be a recovery
before the end of the year; whether tem-
porary or otherwise depends on the season
and many other things.
General Industries.
/ Dividends-
Mo, and . £ ref ‘ To Re ‘ Re-
Mar., Piofits. i p.e. Ord. serves, serves.
1928* 42,186 12,906 6 p.c. = 27,394 1,886 1,880
r et>.,
1929 90,777. 20,229 10 „ „ 70,240 f 308 2 194
1930 83,387 20,489 8 „ ~ 44,506 18,392 20,586
*Eight months.
_ tineluding 5 p.c. on 294,419 deferred ords.
This is the holding co. in which shareholders
in Metters and K.F.B. merged their interests
by an exchange of scrip nearly three years
ago. No goodwill figured in the deal. Another
subsidiary, Metters K.F.B. Pty Ltd has
since been formed, and a factory put up at
Footscray (Vic.).
At I eb. 28 the holding co.’s paid eanitnl
was £1,143,954 in 293,092 7 p.c. cum Ss
556,323 oris, and 294.539 V-d
The deferment on the “B” shares, issued in
payment for reserves, hidden and disclosed.
l n r the Metters , co -> expires on Oct. 1 next.
Meanwhile dividends thereon are at the di«
cretion of the board and payable only after
the prefs. have been attended to and- 10 n o
handed to the ords.
Despite difficulties the aggregate net pro-
fits of the operating cos. (£89,058) fell away
only £1415 last year. All but £5659 of
their admitted net earnings was distributed.
After handing the prefs. their £20,516, the
balance of the £83,387 received by the hold-
ing co. was 11.3 p.c. on its ord. capital,
l>ut the outlook is uncertain, so the cautious
board snipped a couple of points off the ord.
div., reducing it to 8 p.c.; hence the
deferreds, which got 5 p.c. in the previous
term, had to be passed by. To ensure 8 p.c.
on General Industries’ two lots of ords. com-
bined, the subsidiaries will need to improve
a trifle on last year’s showing.
At the close of last accounts the holding
co.’s assets consisted of shares in subsid-
iaries (£1,193,827) and a handful of book
debts (£1717). Aggregate balanee-sheet
figures of the pups compare as follows: —
1929 1930.
Paid capital £904,524 £904,531
Liabilities .. .. .. 157,071 227,483
Freehold 396,481 400,665
Plant, etc 312,609 350,453
Stoaks 378,715 420,039
Book debts . . .. 225,168 232,184
Shares other cos. .. .. 35,000 35,723
Cash 965 576
The growth in the figures is mainly due to
the development of the Victorian business.
The position is very comfortable. The
more or less liquid surplus (£425,316, in
eluding stocks but excluding shares) was
£22,461 lighter than at the previous balance.
Shares are apparently Metters’ holding in
its Maoriland subsidiary.
On the market the ords. sold down from
275. to 18s., and the deferreds from 255. to
165.. over the last three months. Clearly the
market expects no material improvement in
earnings during the current term, and
counts on nothing more than a 6 p.c. div.
On that basis the ords. would return 6.6. p.c.
at the present price. The backing amounts
to 20s. 3d. in net assets. The prefs., which
enjoy priority as to capital, and are not
at any time to exceed one-third of the issued
scrip, can be had at a shade over par. They
are covered by £3 19s. in net assets; and
last year’s profit was over four times their
annual requirements.
Carlton Brewery, Ltd. (Melb.).
To Re- Nominal
Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 60,602 3 p.c. = 1,233 59,369 706,676
Unexplained additions, £32,458 .. .. 739,134
1921 . . 62,195 3 p.c. = 1,234 60,961 800,095
Unexplained additions, £33,718 .. .. 833,813
1922.. 64,638 2% p.c. = 1,196 63,442 897,255
Cash distribution, 2s. per share, £41,127 856,128
1923.. 94,602 5 p.c. = 2,392 92,210 948,338
Cash distribution, 4s. per share, £79,906 868,432
Unexplained additions, £10,786 .. 87.9,218
Reserves capitalised, ‘£770,017 . . .. 109,201
1924.. 97,485 * = 86,083 11,402 120,603
Unexplained additions, £20,786 .. 141,389
1925.. 112,060 12 p.c. = 98,038 14,022 155,411
1926.. 121,010 14 „ „ 114,379 6,631 162,042
1927.. 130,616 14 „ „ 114,379 16,237 178,279
1928.. 131,188 14 „ „ 114,379 16,809 195,088
1929.. 130,021 14 „ „ 114,379 15,642 210,730
*i)iv. at iate of 5 p.c. p.a. with 2s. bonus paid in
first half ; 11 p.c. p.a. paid on increased capital
in second half.
This is the co. which led the way in the
big Carlton and United merger. It got
£400,000 in scrip for plant and goodwill—
mostly the latter. It had inherited a debt of
£893,502 from the old Carlton and West
End breweries after the crash of the ’nine-
ties, and divs. were anchored at 3 p.c.
until the slate was cleaned.
Gradually the old freeholds were sold at a
profit on their written-down book values, and
the last of the ancient debts was wiped out
in 1923; Meanwhile nominal reserves of
£948,338 had piled up. Thus, with the
obstacles which hitherto littered the path
removed, the way was open for reconstruc-
tion ; the old capital (£46,975 at Dec.
31, 1923) was lifted to £816,992, reserves
being tapped for the purpose. Since returns
from the C.U.B. and other income, after
deducting exes., became available as divi-
dends, shareholders have had 14 p.c. on
capital, as increased, for each of the last
four years. It has been a more comfortable
matter, too, than the figures in the table
suggest.
The future of Carlton’s scrip as an invest-
ment is governed mainly by its share interest,
including that of its subsidiary, in the big
operating concern. The position in this
respect is as follows: —
C.U.B. Shares. Book Value.
Carlton .. . . 400,000 ords. £400,000
36,203 prefs. 45,254
Victoria . . . . 167,500 ords. 167,500
15,160 prefs. 18,950
What these and the co.’s other investments
turn in is seen in the next comparison:—
C.U.B. vie. Co.’s
and Vic. Rents, Surplus
Co.’s Divs. Interest, etc. Profits.
1925.. £89,430 £26,004 £6755
1926. . 100,883 27,821 2366
1927.. 106,336 26,985 5446
1928.. 106.336 28,638 5493
1929.. 106,336 28,310 5121
The £130,021 netted was 15.9 p.c. on capital.
But if the proportion of C.U.B.’s undistri-
buted profit to which Carlton and its pup
would be entitled (£25,800 last year) is
taken into consideration," the year’s net
result was a comfortable 19.1 p.e. ou capital
as against 20, 19.7 and 18.5 p.c. for the
three preceding years. For the last
three years C.U.B. has paid 171 p.c. from
declared net profits averaging 22.3 p.e. p.a.
The next comparison shows how snug
finances are:—
1920. 1923. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital* £41,987 £47,847 £816,992 £816,992
Debentures .. 284,160
Mortgages . . 4,908
Sundry creditors 1,166 1,060 3,282 3,721
Brewery freehold 90,000 90,000 90,000 90,000
Other freehold 147,554 56,508 58,189 58,189
Contracts of sale 120,746 96,147 21,187 20^049
Mortgages, etc. 13,112 73,660 206’749 220’186
Shares in other
cos. .. 678,698 649,115 706,691 705,412
includes calls paid in advance.
The market is not worrying about the result
of next Saturday’s referendum on the liquor
question in Vic.; it is more concerned about
reduced spending and the competition that
is coming from the new Richmond Brewery.
It therefore prices Carlton’s scrip on the
basis of present distribution, paying 365. 6d.
as against 495. 6d. a year ago for the pound
shares. At the current figure the return is
a shade over 7 p.c. on a 14 p.c. div. basis.
The backing, including the co.’s proportion
of C.U.B.’s visible lay-by, amounts to
28s. 4d. in net tangibles.
Civil Service Stores (Sydney).
Dividend (8 p.c.)
and Bonus on
Net Purchases To Re- Re-
Profits. (10 p.c.). serves. serves.
Jan., 1926.. 19,682 18,039 1643 78,778
July, 1926 .. 16,494 16,055 439 79,217
Jan., 1927.. 23,508 21,623 1885 81,102
Preliminary exes., £4354 .. .. 76,748
July, 1927..* 25,093 23,378 1715 78,463
Written off, £15,566 .. .. 62,897
Added prelim, exes., £19,809 .. 43,088
Jan., 1928 .. 22,769 23,734 42,123
Unexplained reduction in prelim.
exes., £11,037 53,160
Loss.
July, 1928 .. 3,718 Nil 49,442
Added prelim, exes., £192.. .. 49,250
Jan., 1929 .. 18,773 Nil 30,477
Forfeited shares, £319 .. .. 30,796
July, 1929.. 20,008 Nil 10,788
Added reserves, £225 .. .. 11 013
Jan., 1930 .. 1,812 Nil 9’ ,201
A year ago each week’s trading piled up fat
losses, so shareholders decided to sell the
business as a going concern. But a period
of readjustment in trading conditions had
set in, and no buyer could be found. Then
the premises were offered, but no bid was
received. Prices were eut in an effort to
hold business; and still the slide in earn-
ings continued, a loss of £20,008 showing up
for the six months to July 31 last. By then
sales had started on the up grade ; presently
there were changes in the control, and it
was decided that shareholders’ interests
would be best served by carrying on.
The new board lost no time in getting
its coat off; it claims to have got prices
down to a competitive level, thus livening
turnover, despite difficulties. For the half-
year to the close of last accounts gross pro-
fits (£62,468) sprang £15,081. Exes.
(£64,280) were £3115 lighter, so the loss
was reduced to £1812; but that apparently
includes a taxation refund of £1398. The
£225 added to reserves was bonus shares
received from the Retail Traders’ Association.
The most urgent need is to further liven
turnover; results, therefore, will partly
depend upon the support given the society
by its 16,316 shareholders, and upon the
extent to which exes, can be kept in hand,
of course. The restoration of divs. is spoken
of if each shareholder would spend on the
average £1 weekly with “The Stores.” But
since the society’s rules provide that shrink-
ages in reserves, due to trading losses, must
first be made good, a cut in capital may
become necessary to ensure an early return
to the dividend list.
The eo. is heavily handicapped in other
respects. Look at these figures:—
Jan., Jan., Jan., Jan.,
1925. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £28,000 £185,583 £292,596 £292,389
Mortgages . . 182,400 147,400 182,400*
Sundry creditors 30,174 28,365 97,870 103,243
Leasehold
premises .. 4,346 1,417
Freehold
premises .. _ 315,385 373,776 408,995*
Furniture and
fittings .. 26,148 31,871 87,436 83,659
Stocks .. 70,754 66,079 77,497 64,734
Debtors .. 17,065 21,753 26,788 28,642
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 29,769 62,569 2,846 2,704
•Includes £35,000 contingent liability and asset.
The pile of outside debt casts its shadow
over the whole position. When the books
last closed, the floating debt, of which £74,424
was coming to the bank, was £7163 in excess
4 y 1 e . more or l ess liquids, including stocks.
And the freehold, in at about top value,
was mortgaged for £147.400. Incidentally,
the apparent growth of £35,000 in the mort-
gage during the year, offset by a similar
increase in the book value of the freehold,
relates to the co.’s equity in a property.
This is. really a contingent liability and asset
respectively, and should be shown as such.
Owing to tlio completely altered circum-
stances in which recent events have placed
the society, its past performances are no
guide whatever to future possibilities. These
will probably be much enhanced by the
completion of the Harbor Bridge and City
Railway. But the price of the scrip in the
market will remain uncertain until the co.
demonstrates its earning capacity and the
future of city property values becomes
clearer.
City Electric Light Co. (Brisbane).
Ord. Pref. Total Re-
Jan., Profits. juiv. Div. l)iv. serves.
£ £ £
1920.. 57,284 10 p.c. 6 p.c. 42,503 25,426
Two prefs.
1921.. 02,204 10p.c. 6&7p.c. 58,234 29,390
1922.. 99,388 10 „6&7„ 77,431 51,353
1923.. 113,270 10 „6&7„ 90,898 73,725
1924.. 132,887 10 „ 6 & 7 „ 100,392 100,220
1925.. 150,260 10 „ 6 & 7 ,, 100,162 150,318
1926.. 190,078 10 „ 0 & 7 „ 104,823 235,573
1927. . 217,261 10 „ 6 & 7 „ 115,714 337,120
1928.. 214,479 10 „6&7„ 117,273 434,326
1929.. 229,322 10 „6&7„ 120,303 543,345
1930.. 229,366 10 ,, 6 & 7 ,, 128,297 644,414
With the growth in demand for current
from Brisbane and its suburbs, this co.’s
earnings have stepped along briskly, provid-
ing a wide margin over distributions. The
board, however, does not claim the attrac-
tive results shown in the table, which include
net additions (£101,068 last year) to the
various reserves. Chief of these is the
renewals, replacement and contingency fund
(£608,206, up £85,832 during the year). The
reserves are probably accumulations in excess
of current requirements for depreciation, etc.
This the board admitted four years ago, when
it claimed that plant was worth £200,000
more than the figure at which it then stood
in the books ; and it is unlikely that revenue
has not since been charged with anything
of a capital nature.
After attending to the prefs.—there are
20,000 6 per cents, and 125,000 7 per cents.
—the balance of last year’s disclosed profit
was 18.5 p.c. on average ordinary capital
compared with 18.7 p.c. and 17.9 p.c. in
the two preceding years. Appearances are.
therefore, that the div. could be lifted with-
out straining anything. But the co. operates
a public utility, and there is always the
possibility that anything more than 10 p.c.,
or bonus issues, might bring down legislation
to control divs. It is, however, reasonable
to expect that the business will continue
to expand, notwithstanding that the statu-
tory limits of the co.’s field are unlikely to
be extended at present. And since the scrip
is at a premium on the market, and has
been put out at par, new share issues have
been in the nature of bonuses to those on
the register.
The most important of the co.’s franchises
expire in 1940, when the whole undertaking
may be resumed without payment for good-
will. Meantime, the Brisbane City Council
is restricted to supplying current from its
own power-house at New Farm to municipal
institutions, except where it purchases any
of the eo.’s franchises that fall in.
Finances are easy :—
1Q91 1 QOQ -|Q9n
Capital .. .. £740,648 £1,344,637 £1,387,110
Liabilities .. .. 42,220 111,226 79,978
Property, plant, mains,
etc. . . . . 769,184 1,872,304 1,937,150
Cash, public securities,
etc. . . . . 27,629 137,225 186,169
Book debts, etc. . . 47,869 51,345 53,887
During the year £42,479 of fresh capital
was got in, and £64,846 was added to the
book value of the main asset. But surplus
earning;s were sufficient to cover the differ-
ence. wipe £31,248 off the debt and strengthen
liquids by £51,486, thus leaving the liquid
surplus (£160,078) £82,734 stronger than
at the previous balance.
The prefs. are preferential as to dividends
only. As for capital, they rank equally with
the ords. after deduction of reserved profits.
On the market the 6 per cents, are steady
around 18s., and the 7 per cents, around
22s. 6d. At those prices the return is 6.6
p.c. and 6.5 p.c. respectively. The ords. arc
priced at 27s. 6d. After allowing for the
div. the return at that figure is 7.5 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis. The backing amounts
to 30s. 2d. in net tangibles.
Manly Hotels, Ltd. (N.S.W.).
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ - £ £
1919.. 3561 8 p.c.= 2800 761 1,991
1920.. 4538 10 „ „ 3500 1038 3,029
1921.. 4174 8 „ „ 2800 1374 4,403
1922.. 4305 8 „ „ 2800 1505 5,908
1923.. 6618 10 „ ,, 3500 3118 9,026
1924.. 5892 10 „ „ 3500 2392 11,418
1925.. 6901 10 „ „ 3500 3401 14,819
1926.. 5663 10 „ „ 3500 2163 16,982
1927.. 2811 10 „ „ 3500 — 16,293
1928.. 2140 - 5 „ „ 1750 390 16,683
1929.. 1764 5 „ „ 1750 14 16,697
Last year it was general depression; for
the two years before that the weather was
blamed. But there have been other dis-
appointments. The Spit (Middle Harbor)
bridge has not brought Manly the business
that was anticipated, many motorists using
(Continued on page 16.)


C 3 ertain people
unhesitating'ly buy the new
Cadillac or La Salle
will
z
o
’mlm
alUmTnnTiuunffk
w
V
o
o
d
p.
-ft
/
77
r\
\\
U
Why is it that men
will be buying their
second or th ird
Cadill ac or La Salle
while, before that, they
shifted from one car to
another?
It will be because in
these cars they find
something more than just
one of the world’s finest
motor cars. They find
certain “plus” values that
give them a security, a
continued high level of
use and satisfaction
offered by no other car.
Accustomed to the finest,
they recognise the
contributions to their
comfort and ease of mind
given by such features
of La Salle and Cadillac
as the exclusive synchro-
mesh transmission,
shatter-proof glass, steer-
ing harmonizer, and the
90 V-type eight-cylinder
engine.
And moreover, they appre-
ciate the continuous ser-
vice which these fine cars
render—a service grow-
ing more satisfactory with
the passing of the years.
Brisbane
• - i
LA
GENERAL MOTORS (Australia) PTY. LTD.
• Sydney - Melbourne • Adelaide - Perth
salle Cadillac
• They are Ge neral Motors Cars


HAVE WE
REACHED
BOTTOM ?
See “ ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly”
for March
NOW ON SALE
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER
22/C. From Newsagents, or
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Perth.
ANNUM,
Bulletin
Brisbane,
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
Patents. — A DVT.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
# * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * • *
The consistency with which Pioneer Wood Pipe
is specified for important schemes is convincing
testimony of the dependable manner in which it is
carrying out its work. Pioneer Wood Pipe is non-
corrosive—its flow actually increases with use—it
is far cheaper than metal pipe, and is lighter,
easier and quicker to lay and extremely durable.
Write for illustrated data book giving full informa-
tion. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.;
and at Footscray, Victoria.— Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradieator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MaDE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
E3l-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
e*
YG
OOORD£S On
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
%
DT
Swift & Company Ltd.. AtiHtruiUHian Agents. 26 20 Clarniee St., Sydney
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Offices Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in. Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-Glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Grbps, Stacks, Hailstone,
etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. T»ROW N. General Manager.
Get your
PAINTS and
VARNISHES
from
AGENTS
EVERYWHERE.
THEY "KEEP ON KEEPING ON!"
u only to turn off to beaches further nbrth.
Also, other hotels have sprung up; and costs
have been growing. One way and another,
net earnings have shrunk from 19.7 on capi-
tal in 1925 to 8 p.c. two years later, and
5.1 p.c. last year. Shareholders have never had
much out of the business—s p.c. for the first
eight years and an average of 5.8 p.c. for the
last 18 years.
Last year the financial position slipped a
trifle, but still it was. not uncomfortable: —
1923. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Liabilities.. . . £26,075 £26,997 £26,298 £25,672
Liquid assets . . 11,718 12,788 11,790 9,528
Excess liabilities. . £14,357 £14,209 £14,508 £16,144
Buildings, etc. .. 60,133 67,941 67,941 68,716
Liabilities include £20,000 54 p.c. perpetual
debentures; £12,000 of this w"as the purchase
price of the old Clarendon Hotel. The more
or less liquids were £4058 in excess of the
floating debt (£5470) at Dec. 31. The free-
hold (£54,671) has remained unchanged
since the 1924 valuation. A hotel of this
kind is a hungry animal for repairs and
modernising improvements; much depends
upon what the management has done in this
way and charged to revenue.
Sellers ask 15s. and buyers offer 10s. for
the pound shares. At the middle price the
return is 8 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
O. Gilpin, Ltd.
, Dividends ~
Pref. To Re-
Profits. 7 p.e. Ord. serves. Deficit.
June, £ £ £ £ £
49,902
1926.. 83,072 738 20 p.c. = 71,983 10,351 39,551
1927.. 93,003 4628 15 ~ ~ 00,000 28,375 11,176
Reserves.
1928. .113,189 7000 17J „ ~ 71,645 34,544 23,368
1929.. 33,046 7000 5 „ ~25,495 551 23,919
The co. operates a chain of about 80 stores
scattered throughout Victoria, N. 8. Wales
and South Australia. A much larger turn-
over is reported, yet gross profits (£233,976)
slipped £40,586, while exes. (£200,930)
sprang £39,557. Thus the precipitous drop of
£80,143 in the net profit figure. But as,
according to the chairman, a heavy increase
in outgoings, due to building alterations and
the erection of new shops, was responsible,
the position is nothing like so serious as the
bare figures would suggest. When new build-
ing operations are complete improvement in
net earnings can be expected, though whether
results will be as good as formerly remains
to be seen.
After attending to the prefs. the balance
of last year’s net earnings was only 5.1 p.c.
on average ord. capital as against 27.1, 20.1
and 22.8 p.c. back to 1926, and the div.,
which averaged 174 p.c. for the three years
to 1928, was dropped back to 5 p.c.
The business is mainly on a cash basis,
thus eliminating bad debts and much of the
expense of book-keeping. Also, the chain
can usually buy cheaper than the unit store,
and ought to have a lower proportion of
overhead to turnover. But recently the co.
has adopted a policy of property purchase
—mainly to anchor goodwill—and this can
be expected to ease the rate of earnings.
Last year the co. bought a further 16
freeholds, and spent £128,995 on these and
other premises. This next comparison shows
what happened
1926. 1928. 1929.
Pref. capital .. .. £23,400 £IOO,OOO £IOO,OOO
Ordinary capital.. .. 400,000 420,705 509,900
Mortgage. . . . . . 14,020 25,251 79,444
Overdraft . . . . 65,905 98,117 168,468
Sundry creditors. . . . 55,434 65,305 520
Freehold and buildings 91,788 132,681 261,676
Plant and equipment . . 31,915 31,912 38,889
Stocks 439,216 632,616 596,061
Cash, book debts, etc. . . 11,480 7,182 11,121
To finance the outlay £89,195 of fresh ord.
capital was got in, £54,193 was added to
the mortgage and £70,351 to the overdraft.
Still, stocks (down £36,555 during the year),
cash, etc., were £358,750 in excess of the
total debt; but that w 7 as £92,258 lighter
than the surplus at the previous balance.
The prefs., which carry a fixed cumulative
7 p.c. and have priority as to capital, are
at par or thereabouts on the market. The
backing figures out at £6 6s. 9d. in net
tangibles; last year’s profit was over ■ 44
times their annual requirements. The ords.,
largely held by those in the business, are
not listed.
Smith and Waddington.
Three years ago Smith and Waddington’s
then five-year-old motor-body building busi-
ness was stepping along nicely on a share
and loan capital of about £33,000. But the
works had become very scattered; so it was
decided to house all operations under one
roof, and to launch out on a mass-production
basis. An expensive freehold close to the
city was bought and a building put up at
a total cost of £178,587. This, £48,600 of
preliminary exes, and demolition charges and
£25,000 of goodwill swallowed up most of
the £350,000 of paid capital; and to finance
the purchase of plant, the chief earning asset,
and carry adequate stocks, the co. had to
go heavily into debt. Thus hamstrung, it
limped along while the motor trade readjusted
itself to altered conditions. In its first 18
months trading losses aggregating £52,103,
piled up. Then things began to improve, and
a net profit of £11,187 w T as registered for
the 12 months to June 30 last.
Delay in connection with new 7 models has
since kept production back, a change in
fashion called for the purchase of new 7 plant,
and stocks are coming forward which have
to be paid for shortly, after delivery. To
prevent the assets falling into the hands of
its creditors, the board last week sent out
an urgent appeal for £50,000 in 10 p.c.
debentures, redeemable not later than March
31, 1935. The security, on paper, amounted
to £255,827 in net tangibles at Dec. 26.
Ranking in priority to the debentures offered
was a mortgage of £65,000 and an equitable
charge of £55,000 to the bank. Tangible
assets comprised freehold, £178,136; plant,
£64,249; stock, etc., £115,695; book debts,
£17,409; cash, £338.
From those figures it is not possible to
say exactly how shareholders stand. But,
including accrued divs. on £200,000 of 8 p.c.
cum. prefs., the whole of the £150,000 of
crd. capital and £I4SS besides was repre-
sented by intangibles at June 27, 1929.
There was then £80,374 coming to the bank
and £92,126 to sundry creditors; tangibles
had a book value of £408,074.
A profit of £4225 is reported for the Dec.
half of last year, and there is enough work
in hand for the co. to carry on for another
three months without loss. But the imme-
diate future threatens to be more difficult
than the past. If the co. manages to pull
through, reconstruction w 7 ith heavy loss of
capital is inevitable.
Limiting Tin Production. 1
Despite the efforts of the Tin Producers’
Association to stabilise the tin market by
restricting production, the spot price was
forced down below the £l6O mark last week.
It was the lowest level reached since 1922,
when the fall continued to £143. The present
drop is attributed to an unexpected increase
in visible supplies, which probably means
that holders of large stocks suddenly
unloaded, either , in panic or of set purpose.
The 1922 fall was followed by a steady rise
w’hich was maintained for a long period, and
hopes are that that bit of history will repeat
itself.
The operations of the association have
barely made themselves felt yet. Last week it
was announced that the chain of pro-
ducing interests extending from Bolivia
through Nigeria, Burma, Siam, South and
East Africa, Cornwall and Australia had
been added to by the decision of the most
important Dutch Indies producers to come
in. These include Banka and Billiton, which
the Government controls. The two combined
account for 95 p.c. of the Dutch Indies
production, and with Sinkep, worked by a
private co., their output amounts to almost
a fourth of the world’s total production.
Since producers outside the association, and
representing an output of 90,431 tons, have
now agreed to limit production, it is hoped
to curtail world output by some 30,000 tons
annually in the near future. At the moment
104 members of the association with an out-
put of 47,368 tons are curtailing production,
18 cos. with an output of 6957 tons are con-
sidering the proposals, and 19 with an annual
output of 2081 tons have refused curtailment.
That is apart from the Dutch Indies shows
already referred to.
It was, by the way, the refusal of the
Dutch Indies to participate which wrecked
the Stephenson rubber restriction scheme.
New Mount Morgan, which acquired the
unliquidated assets of the old co. for £70,000,
has been killing two birds with one stone
by pumping out the mine and collecting
copper from the water by precipitation. In
the old days a considerable quantity of
copper was recovered by running waste solu-
tions through a long line of rough boxes
filled with iron scrap. Now the pumped
w r ater. already carrying some copper in solu-
tion, is run over copper-impregnated ground,
through which it filters, adding to its copper
content in the process. The run-off is caught
in large vats containing the scrap, and the
copper deposited on this is collected in due
course. Since pumping began in September,
56 million gallons of water have been raised
and 133.37 tons of precipitate recovered,
worth well over £6O a ton. Results have
been so encouraging that a special acid
resisting pump has been ordered ; with this
it is expected to raise five million gallons
of water per week.
. * ’ * * *
Emeralds of excellent quality used to be
mined at Emmaville (N.S.W.). Now that
the price for tin has dropped, some of the
local prospectors are. turning again to search
for the gems. Forty years ago two brothers
named Ivaine, working a shoot of tin on Glen
Creek, came into kaolin carrying small green
stones. These were discarded as worthless
tourmalines until A. R. Butler proved they
wore fine emeralds. A £30,000 co. floated
in Sydney worked the deposits until 1897
when they cut out with the main shaft down
to 210 ft. The gem-carrying kaolin was
always found in close association with topaz
rock, of which there is an outcrop up the
hillside from the old workings. This was
never thoroughly prospected. Lately two West-
ralian miners, Wolfe and Bastian. took up
the old leases,'and_ are starting in from No. 35
level, where the biggest kaolin shoot occurred
m the early days. During the working of
tins mine 200,000 carats of emeralds were
sent away.
* * * *
Wiluna Gold Mines, Ltd., hasn't every-
thing at Wiluna. To the north there is the
Moonlight group, approximately 300 acres,
from which about £IOO,OOO worth of gold
has been extracted, and in which some rich
patches of stibnite ore' are known to exist.
Then there are the quartz mines, which are
quite apart from the Wiluna, Moonlight and
other auriferous schist lodes on the field.
So far the quartz, areas, have produced nearly
a quarter of a million pounds’ worth of bul-
Uon. Exclusive of alluvial and specimen
gold the Wiluna field has turned out roughly
£1,200,000 worth of bullion, of which about
55 per cent, came from the Wiluna and
Moonlight groups and 45 per cent, from
other sources. Apart from London cos., pri-
vate investors have played a prominent part
in the development of the field, and none
more so than Claude de Bernales. At pre-
sent Wiluna’s gold production is very small,
but when the plant starts, about June,
between £60,000 to £70,000 worth of bullion
is expected to be banked each month.
* * * *
Melbourne and Perth controlled Sand
Queen-Gladsome Cos. is trying again. There
is some good stuff exposed in the bottom
workings; it is hoped that after these have
been extended a little a minimum of
1200 tons will be treated monthly. Returns
are then expected to show a liberal margin
of profit. Last year an attempt to obtain
capital to work the mine without making
further calls on shareholders failed.
* * s’t *
Bellevue, at Mt. Sir Samuel, is mentioned
as one of the old Westralian goldmines which
will be raised from the dead if flotation
proves a success at Wiluna. Bellevue was
at one time reckoned to have a fine shoot
of ore. But treatment troubles started early,
and after three reconstructions operations
were abandoned. Over half a million pounds’
worth of gold was extracted before the shut-
ters were put up.
* ❖ * *
Huey Yot, a Siamese dredging proposi-
tion launched in 1924 by Malay Siamese,
has been in trouble ever since the dredge
started in January, 1928. Recoveries have
been far below expectation, operations to
Sept. 30 last resulting in a loss of £ll,OlO.
The co. then owed Bun Tin Lum £19,483,
and there was £2157 coming to sundry credi-
tors. The mine stood at £73,651; dredge,
£40,501; liquids, £lOls. Recently an extra-
ordinary general meeting at Penang suddenly
resolved to sell the show'. Australian share-
holders, who had been ignored in the matter,
asked for information, and were told that
Universal Engineering and Development
offered £166,000 cash, and would take over
some £23,000 of liabilities. But the buyer
has since thought better of the deal. Chair-
man F. F. Munro, after a trip to Malaya,
said that the capital would have to be raised
to £250,000 —it is now' £140,000 —in order
to buy anew dredge. How the present
Werf-iConrad machine, which was to dig
130,000 c.y. monthly, became unequal to the
job it was designed for remains to be
explained. An alternative proposition was
that a co. to be formed with a capital of
£350,000 had offered Huey Yot £116,000 (in
scrip), the balance to be spent on two new
dredges. Meanwhile Australian shareholders
had the jco.’s engineer in Malaya, ,T. M. Mar-
shall, appointed a director, and formed an
advisory committee here. Last week the com-
mittee and Mr. Munro discussed the co.’s
affairs, but the result of their deliberations
has been kept secret.
* $ * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How is the price of metallic tin deter-
mined day by day in London? —5486.
There is an Exchange in London at which
metal-brokers operate. Prices depend on
supply and demand. If the former exceeds
the latter, prices fall. There are also specu-
lative transactions —gambling in “futures.”
This is made possible by the fact that what
really passes from hand to hand in this
Exchange is not metal but paper, represent-
ing so much metal, but (except in very rare
instances) not any particular parcel of that
metal.
I have an insurance policy on which I
do not wish to continue payments. Can I
compel them to refund the premiums paid
in? —5526.
No. First, it cost anything up to two
years' premiums to get your policy; even
in a good office it costs nearly one year’s
premiums. Second, you have been covered
all the years you have held the policy; and
though you haven’t died other policy-holders
have, some of them after paying in only one
or two premiums. You have to help pay for
them. On Ordinary policies there is, how
ever, a surrender value admitted by prac-
tieally all offices; its size is determined by
the actuary.
Position of Australasian Motor Investment
and Finance Company, Ltd.? Are their
shares listed? —5588.
Last accounts made up to June, 1929. lor
the three years of the co.’s life a div. of 10
p.c. p.a. has been paid on all shares; but it
has used up. all the profit, and probably more
than the true profit. All the co.’s capital
and nearly £20,000 of o.d. was on loan. Loan
business is very risky at the moment. Last
declared buyer of profs. (10s. paid) was in
January, 75.; a seller since then asked 9s. bd.
No reported business for many months.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
L.G.W.: Very fair lot. Future of No. 2
uncertain; but present is a bad time to sell. No. 3
i;i likely to have losses... .A. 8.: A fire insurance
policy is one of indemnity. If, since the property was
insured, it has depreciated in value, naturally the
co. will be liable on the value at the date of the
fire. It may, if it choose, repair or rebuild the
house insured. . . .A.E.E.: When you buy a £1 share
in a limited liability co. you contract to pay, when
properly called upon, any part of the £1 unpaid on
that share. You cannot escape liability by forfeiting
the share. . . .A.M.: Large risks in it and don’t expect
divs. to be earned • for three years or more
J.S.T.: Keep it in your pocket. .. .J.C.: Now much
more speculative than it used to be W.A.8.:
On your requirement Commonwealth loans 1, Savings
Bank 2, industrial 3—a lon# way after Y.F.A.:
Leave it there.... Sag: A bank’s quotation of its
rates of exchange is good only for that day, unless
there is an express stipulation to the contrary
R.8.G.: No hope. It isn’t far removed from a
fraud F.F.E.: (1) Very speculative. (2) Yes;
there appears to be no other liability Silvas;
(1) See Bulletin 29/l/’3O. (2) Not much; cer-
tainly not at present.... Imshi: Too late; you’ve
contracted to pay the full face value of the shares.
. ...K.5..5.: Can’t get any accounts; but on the
statement submitted it is a wild cat.


SHADOW SHOWS
The
STATE
THEATRES
“The Laughing Lady,” a Paramount adap-
tation of Sutro’s play, was screened at
Sydney State Theatre on Saturday. Mis-
sioners of Empire, and others who wish to
demonstrate why Australia should shun
American ways, will find it useful. The
civilisation which it depicts makes Chicago
understandable; almost anyone might become
homicidal in such surroundings.
There is no significance in the laughter
of Marjorie; it is her strange habit to
laugh loudly at inappropriate moments, as
when she is being rescued from drowning,
or cross-examined in court, or kissed. Un-
fortunately she omits to laugh on the one
occasion when hearty laughter would have
saved an awkward situation, and would also
have been well in the picture. An absurd
lifeguard (beach variety) bursts into her
hotel bedroom under a drink-induced
delusion that sfie is infatuated with him.
The manager sees him through a keyhole
and orders her to leave the hotel. In
countries with equitable libel laws private
unpleasantnesses of the sort remain private;
Mrs. Lee, being in America, has her mis-
adventure starred in the papers. In Europe
or Britain the appearance of a drunken
stranger in the room of a woman of repute
would not be enough to establish adultery:
in the U.S.A. it evidently is. Mrs. Lee is
divorced and loses her child Barbara. Out-
side America defeated respondents usually
give society a miss for a while. Mrs. Lee
appears in an expensive house-party at
Southampton (the scene of her experience
with the lifeguard) and meets Daniel Farr,
the lawyer who appeared against her. She
wants to show Daniel the worthlessness of
the kind of evidence by which she was
deprived of her child. The papers begin to
star the news of their affair. Daniel now
learns that Hector Lee had had a mistress
before the divorce, and that she is black-
mailing him—miraculously enough, without
the knowledge of the press. H'e proceeds to
blackmail Lee. “Unless Barbara is with her
mother by to-night I’ll take steps to have
the case reopened ; and this time you’ll find
me on the other side of the fence!” Mrs.
Lee, in ignorance of this, has arranged with
one Brown, a drunken yahoo whom we are
asked to accept as a representative American
pressman, to have Daniel photographed
coming out of her room at night. The pic-
ture is taken. Brown’s editor is waiting in
sizzling excitement for Brown’s staliree, when
Daniel rings up to announce his engagement
to Mrs. Lee. In the words of the dis-
appointed director of public opinion, “the
stahree ain’t woith a nickel.”
The homes of these remarkable people are
appropriately tasteless and vulgar. A stage-
producer in London or Paris would house a
member of the half-world in rooms very like
those of Mrs. Lee. But, then, in her ways,
and even in her voice, Ruth Chatterton makes
Marjorie Lee very like an upper-class demi-
mondaine. She is plain, but she knows how
to dress, and she has the restful if sinister
allurement of a woman who has no more
to learn about life. Her acting is flawless
in its still, Gallic finish. The most interest-
ing of the other characters, who are little
more than feeders to Marjorie, is Daniel,
played by Clive Brook. The righteous, loud-
voiced, square-jawed Daniel inspires sym-
pathy from the moment he enters the den
of this formidable lady.
¥ * *
In “Drag” (First National), at Melbourne
State Theatre, Richard Barthelmess becomes
vocal for the first time on the screen. The
result is to somewhat curtail the rather
ineffective young gentleman’s exuberance in
the domain of pantomime. Richard has Lila
Lee flung at him clad in a costume which
conceals her anatomical details about as
effectually as a coat of paint. In a silent
film this would give Barthelmess the oppor-
tunity for a sensational display of postural
passion. Obliged to express his feelings in
speech lie lias to observe more of the pro-
prieties. This is not the ohly reason why
"Drag” drags. It is a domestic comedy con-
cerned with a small-town editor who marries
a girl only to find he has espoused her
family as well. The acting of Alice Day
as a timid daughter torn between her duty
towards her appalling family and her desire
to enter on a new life is excellent. Her
family regards her husband’s desire to form
a domestic unit of his own as a more
immoral proposal than free love. The family
ruins Barth elmess’s newspaper, and he
departs for New York, where he places a
musical comedy. Pie is pursued by his col-
lective incubus, and his wife persisting in
her devotion to the family ideal, the future
looks black. At this stage Lila Lee effects
a rescue. Having warned him early of his
fate she earns the reward of her prescience
when he bolts with her to Paris. There are
s°me amusing situations in the film, but it
is difficult to get interested in the careers
of any of the participants, because so much
depends on dialogue and the dialogue lacks
punch.
Barthelmess combines a sulky expression
with a fair screen voice. In one place he
sits down at a piano and goes over the music
of his play for the entrepreneur’s benefit. A
look of unutterable ecstasy slowly spreads
over that gentleman’s face such as might have
been expected had the composer been a
second Beethoven. This part of the picture;
would have carried more conviction bad it
been minus sound.
One of the numerous stars of “Big Time,”
the new Fox Movietone all-talkie at Sydney
Regent, is the Melbournite Daphne Pollard,
who appeared here with Pollard’s Juveniles
20 years ago. She is admirable as Sybil, the
proprietress of a seal act in the vaudeville
show which has on its bill Lily (Mae Clarke)
and Eddie Burns (Lee Tracy), who love each
other. It should be explained, in the absence
of a glossary which the programmes of most
of the latest U.S. films badly need, that Big
Time was the end of every variety artist’s
desire before vaudefilm did to the music-halls
what the talkies threaten to do to the stage.
Eddie is an incompetent hoofer (Eng., step-
dancer) who only holds his job because his
clever little wife makes him work. He is
fatuous enough to believe that the success of
their turn is due to him, and for some unex-
plained reason Gloria, a chorus-girl who is
as naughty as
she is fair,
shares his de-
lusion. Eddie
and Lily are
offered Big
Time, when
the arrival of
Lily’s baby
makes it im-
possible for
her to work,
a n el Gloria
takes t h e
mother’s place.
She and Eddie
ruin the act,
and part with
mutual loath-
ing. Lily has
vanished with
her boy. Years
af terwa rds
Eddie reaches
Ho 11 yw o od,
MAE CLARKE.
still bragging hard though starving, and
finds that Lily has become a star. The
reconciliation gives them both an oppor-
tunity to do some really sound emotional
acting, and they take it. We finish by liking
Eddie, who is a very human ass as well as
a courageous one.
“Big Time” suits Lee Tracy better than
“Broadway,” in which lie made his name.
As Eddie he embodies the self-assurance,
brainlessness and sentimental domestic
yearnings of millions of youths who have
been seduced by the glamor of the footlights
since acting began, though palpably intended
by the Oeator to be hod-carriers. Mae
Clarke, with assistance from a sweet, sad
smile, supplies a taking picture of a nice
girl and good mother. Stepin Fetchit, of
“Hearts in Dixie” fame, is suitably animal-
esque as the nigger Eli. Indeed, the whole
show has been unusually well cast, and the
direction, for which Van Buren, who staged
“The Trial of Mary Dugan,” is responsible,
has the snap of a well-ridden race.
* * H-
If “Tiger Island,” a Victorian film whicli
has been showing in a small Bourke-street
theatre, were five times better acted and five
times better photographed, it would still be
entirely negligible. It is the most actionless
film _ ever conceived- Yet there is nothing
lacking in the plot from that point of view.
An old man and his beautiful daughter are
lured to an island on the Victorian coast
with the promise of a share in a deceased
person’s estate. The father finds that the
fortune was made by dope-running, the snow
being dropped from passing steamers. The
old man is induced to join in the nefarious
trade, and after a series of vicissitudes, dur-
ing which the villain pursues the girl, the
hero pursues the villain, and the detectives
pursue the lot, the dope-runner is unmasked,
papa exonerated and the lover gets his bit
of skirt.
The producer has performed the remark-
able feat, of draining this promising story of
every bit of dramatic interest by presenting
it in a series of glimpses of people talking,
followed by sub-titles telling what they said.
Thus stated, the encounters between the
crooks and the police are less exciting than
a law-court story of a common assault and
the love passages are as cold as a frozen
toad. There is no scope for acting in such
an enterprise, but Beth Darval looks her
part of a heroine, and John Barry (Barry
Thomson) as a passionless lover looks his.
Pictures like “Tiger Island” are likely to
do more harm than good to the Australian
industry, and speaking kindly of them doesn’t
help, for movie audiences these days are
entirely composed of connoisseurs. A pre-
vious Vic. film which the press received with
acclaim lost its patriotic promoters £15,000.
“General Crack,” a Cinemasound version
of George Preedy’s best-seller, is the new
show at Sydney Hay market. It is a very
elaborate production, the inside of Brussels
Cathedral being, in particular, a miracle of
verisimilitude.
As in the book, the Duke of Kurland’s
illegitimate son is obsessed with the idea of
regaining his lost heritage. He saves Austria
MARION NIXON.
for the Em-
peror, who re-
pays him by
seducing his
gypsy wife.
There a re
some dramatic
moments when
the two men
meet after a
spy has told
Crack of Leo-
pold’s perfidy.
The rest of the
story concerns
his revenge,
his recovery
o f Kurland,
and his love
affair with the
Empero r’s
lovely sister,
for the pur-
poses of the
film, the nobles
of seventeenth-
eighteenth century middle Europe are given
the manners and culture of Louis XlV’s
“embroidered dukes.” Also, about half the
magnificoes, including the General and the
Archduchess Maria Louisa, have American
accents. Apart from such discrepancies—
inevitable so long as Europe allows itself to
be shown to the world through the eyes of
Hollywood—“ General Crack” is a first-class
cloak-and-sword production with a couple
of wonderfully realistic battle scenes.
It will be enjoyed, or otherwise, in pro-
portion as the spectator is attracted by the
art of John Barrymore, who hogs every situa-
tion worth hogging. To this Showman
Barrymore is undeviatingly Barrymore, no
matter what role he assumes, and, by reason
of his flamboyant conceit, something of a
trial in all of them. Marion Nixon makes a
sweet little_ Archduchess. How extraordin-
arily effective the American voice can be
when used appealingly by a woman of refine-
ment ! The programme deserves a word of
praise. It not only mentions all the charac-
ters, but also gives the period of the play and
an indication of where the action is occurring.
HEADS OF THE PACIFIC ROTARY CONFERENCE HELD AT SYDNEY LAST WEEK.
In the centre: Governor A. C. C. Holtz, chairman of the conference. First Row (left to right): Mr. Kitashima (Japan), vice-
chairman A. P. Campbell, Courtney-Pratt, B.J. Tucker (U.S.A.) Second Row: Ben Gelling, C.U.B. Gnrnett, Elgin Stodd[?]rt
(U.S.A.), Mr. Peacock. Third Row: A. A. Burch, William C. McGonagle (Honolulu), Dr. Monson (U.S.A.), Mr. Tipper (Chin[?]).
Fourth Row: Mr. McDou gal, Mr. Nomura, Charles Rhodes (official rep. of Rotary International), H. J. Cuthrie.


d
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs, EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD.
J. R. KIRK, Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
Total Assets exceed £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Asoociation and no. deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sun: assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through a cement, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately*
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E, BIDEN, Secretary. GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manaeer.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Belle of New York”
Criterion * “Journey’s End”
Royal “The Prince and the Pauper”
State . Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The Maid of the Mountains”
New Comedy “Lombardi, Ltd.”
Ring's Allan Wilkie
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
William Faversham, an actor wlio dropped
on Australia out of a clear sky, as it were,
brought with him a piece in which he won some
laurels in New York 40 years ago—a drama-
tisation of Mark Twain’s “Prince and the
Pauper.” At Sydney Royal on Saturday
night the old play and the old actor scored
a big success. Quite a lot of the indestruct-
ible boyishness the creator of Tom Sawyer
and Iluck Finn put into his romance was left
in by the compilers of the stage version,
and Faversham and his co. keep that immor-
tal spark brightly burning. As Miles Hen-
don, the good-hearted though battered soldier
of fortune who befriends Edward Prince of
Wales in the days of that young potentate’s
pauperism, Faversham gives an easy, confi-
dent characterisation that puts an air of
probability on all the proceedings. Incident-
ally, the production gives her first really
large opportunity to Mary Macgregor, an
Australian actress whose experience lias been
largely gained in the shadow thrown by
Moscovitch’s dominant personality. In
the dual role of prince and pauper she has
to keep a sharp dividing line between the
characters, and she plays both of them con-
genially and attractively. Ann Davis gives
a sprightly picture of the ginger-haired girl
who was later to be Queen Bess, and Edith
Campbell, as a lady-in-waiting, supplies as
much love interest as the play requires in
a flirtation with Miles Hendon. G. K.
Souper makes an impressive Earl of Hert-
ford, and James Hughes is the perfect basher
as John Canty. The rest of the cast fit
nicely into their respective places, the Firm
has done its very competent best with scenery
and dresses, and the show is one which no
child, of any age, should miss seeing.
* * *
The orchestra which holds forth at Sydney
Town Hall each Saturday night to succor
distressed musicians gets a little better each
week, and even improves a bit during each
performance, Fred Quintrell, well known to
lovers of the now-deceased Tiv., had the
EDITH CAMPBELL, one of the ladies of Wm. Faversham's
company.
baton at the latest concert, and proved that
the tons of jazz through which he has
ploughed haven’t atrophied his artistic soul.
He elicited a very fine reading of Schubert’s
“Unfinished Symphony,’’ which abounds in
traps and pitfalls for the conductor.
Schubert the melodist turned coutrapuntalist,
and exerting his rich faculties of invention
in three or four themes at once, offers a
puzzle that takes some sorting out. Quin-
trell tracked all the themes to their lairs and
kept them in their places. A rousing per-
formance of Liszt's “Second Rhapsody” and
a declamation of Rachmaninoff’s C sharp
minor Prelude that brought down the house
were other items in a rich feast of music.
¥ * *
It is possible—it has been proved to be
possible—to make an acceptable stage show
of A. A. Milne’s very slenderly constructed
costume play “The Ivory Door,” but the
tusk was manifestly beyond the ability of
the little group of amateurs who essayed it
at Sydney’s Savoy last week. The* best
that can be said of the affair is that it was
a very pleasant society function. Governor
de Chair’s daughter Elaine and son Graham
took part and were not the least effective
players in a very mediocre cast. However,
the Girl Guides and the friends of St. Luke’s
Hospital gave enthusiastic support to the en-
tertainment, and the funds of their respective
organisations, should benefit substantially.
# * *
Nancy Weir offered Glazounow’s Varia-
tions as the display piece when she first
emerged from her convent school to surprise
a Melbourne Town Hall audience a year
ago, and she repeated the choice at her fare-
well concert last week. She played it with
even more decision and sympathy than moved
her hearers to noises expressive of astonish-
ment on the original occasion. Later she
roused greater enthusiasm with a remarkably
astute performance of Schumann’s “Papil-
lons,” and she finally staggered the audience
by playing Debussy’s “Clair de Lune” and
five preludes by Scriabin, all in the one
breath, running one piece into the next with-
out any interval, possibly in a girlish spirit
of fun. Also on the programme was Stanis-
laus Tarczynski, who wasted his time —he’s
our most brilliant violinist—on a piffling
sonata by Paderewski. In addition Walter
Kirby sang, and he still just misses being one
of the world’s very great singers. Miss Weir
concluded the proceedings with an alleged
improvisation which served to emphasise the
dangers of unconscious memory. Every place
was filled, and some feet occupied unseated
floor space.
* ¥ *
When The Bulletin last looked in at
Melbourne King’s Wilkie was giving lessons
in Shakspearean elocution to half the school
population of the State. The fact that his
Shylock has become as mechanical as a
Robot in gesture and speech was disregarded
by the kids, who were hugely enjoying the
show. “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” also
drew a huge audience. Wilkie’s Bottom is
the nearest thing to pure clowning seen in
Melbourne since
Wirth folded up
liis tents. When
Bottom pulled
down one of the
ass’s ears fully five
minutes dissolved
in laughter, and
when he released
it again a similar
period was lost in
the womb of time.
It is to be regret-
ted that the first
performance i n
Melbou rn e of
“Henry Four” is
to be replaced with
“Hamlet,” by im-
perions request
The most success-
ful season the
worthy producer
has ever had will
close to-morrow
night with “Much
Ado.” On a con-
servative estimate
Wilkie has cleaned
up the town to the
tune of a good
£2OOO a week, and
no success was
more honestly
earned.
* *
Melbourne has
taken Gladys Mon-
erieff and her won-
derful voice to its
heart anew and
her nightly state-
ment that she is
going back to the
mountains because
they are the only
things that under-
stand her need not
be taken literally
as far as “The
Maid” at the Royal is concerned. At the
Comedy, where Lombardi Carillo is on view,
full houses are as prevalent as empty ones
in Kew.
# # ¥
Besides the evergreen George Wallace,
Melbourne Tivoli now has a lady who sub-
mits to having bunches of chrysanthemums,
the head of King George and other interest-
ing diagrams projected on to her diaphragm.
Sometimes she appears to be riding in a
chariot and anon sitting in a gondola, and
if she occasionally seems to have three legs
or an arm mysteriously sprouting from her
head, the audience takes it all in good part.
Peggy Pryde has also been resurrected, but
failing the discovery by a newspaper that she
is improper, which she isn’t, the event is not
likely to cause an unprecedented rush for seats.
¥ ¥ ¥
The Melbourne Office Flapper writes:—
Well, I have been to a Prohibition meeting
and I’m glad I did. Every intelligent girl
should go to one. I mean we are apt to get
wrong ideas about
Great Public
Movements if we
only listen to men
friends who may
be Secret Drinkers
or in the pay of
the Liquor League.
Well, I went with
a fully - qualified
Psychologist. I
mean, he has been
married twice, and
h e contradicted
everything the
speakers said
but I suppose that
was because he
was prejudiced.
Because I mean
what the speakers
said couldn’t have
been more convinc-
ing. I mean, I had
no idea the Drink
Evil was so serious.
It is dragging our
menfolk down into
the gutter and it’s
what keeps the pri-
so n s and mad-
houses so full. It
seems scarcely any
male in Victoria is
safe with a glass
in his hand. It is
ruining more
homes in a week
than the Savings
Bank contractors
ruin in a twelve-
month and it is
wh y Australian
civilisation is on a
level with the Kaf-
firs and has to
have its movies
made in America,
which is the most
civilised country on earth. Well a clergy-
man was the first speaker and after he had
drunk a glass of water with every sign
of keen enjoyment he said a Drink
was only another name for the Devil.
If you let the Devil in once he steals
away your brains and so you let him
or another Devil in again and then another
and another (and every time he said
“another” he drank a fresh glass of
water) and soon you are so full of Devils
that you get into your car and run over a
pedestrian. None of the men I know behave
like that so it just shows how a girl can
go though life and know practically nothing
of what is going on around her.'
Then an elderly lady with a red eye,
elastic-sided boots and a hat of pre-war
vintage got up and said that the gateway
to Hell was the swingdoors of the hotels and
the Psychologist said how does she know
because she has never been inside one. And
he said nothing annoys a woman with a hat
like a market garden more than for there
to be a place where men can get aw r ay from
her, if only for a moment. Because, he said,
no man would take her round to the Oriental
for a cocktail in a hat like that, not if she
were the last woman left in Melbourne.
Well, the next speaker was a civilian and
it appears he was the evening’s Star Turn,
because he had been to America especially
to find out the Truth. And you could believe
him because he said he was not a Wowser
although he was on that platform with
these distinguished people to-night, but ho
was really a journalist who had practised
as a lawyer and so he was used to being
familiar with the truth. And it appears
he was several weeks in America and in
between interviewing Greta Garbo, Gene
Tunney and wonderful people like that for
his paper, he found time to go thoroughly
into the whole question and collect all the
most favorable statistics and make up his
mind in accordance with the facts and the
wishes of the Prohibition party of Victoria,
who had asked him to do it. * In America,
according to the statistics he collected, every-
body has loud speakers and Fords and
pianolas solely because of Prohibition. Even
the 5,000,000 unemployed? shouted the
Psychologist. But the chairman told him
not to interrupt or he would be put out. So
the Psychologist said he had had enough of
hearing about the Horrors of the Hotel bar
from reformed journalists and ladies who
sally forth and do battle on public platforms
with Great Social Evils in the interests of
the next generation while their husbands
stay at home to put the pom to bed. So we left.
The Palette
Brilliant rendering of light .and faithful
recording of bright colors are the chief
features of Archibald Colquhoun’s interesting
displhy ; at Melb. Athenaeum. “The Chinese
Bride-' is an amazingly clever thing, and so
is a still-life, “The Velasquez Print.” “Mel-
bourne’s First Speakeasy” appears to be
the subject intended in No. 1, “Studio
Interior,” depicting a dim lady serving a
glass to a solitary, nervous-looking customer.
FLORENCE AUSTRAL, who begins her Australian-Maori[?]nd
tour under the Carroll banner at Sydney Town Hall on
May 24.
Possibly because of the conditions in iiis
studio, Colquhoun’s portraits are somewhat
nakedly lit with the sort of uncompromising
illumination favored by passport photo-
graphers ; but there is no doubt about his
capacity. .
East Sydney Technical College, which
teaches the arts as well as the trades, held
a little exhibition last week of the work of
its most brilliant art-student, Eileen
McGrath. She entered the college on a
scholarship in 1922 at the age of 14, and
the show comprises pencil sketches, decora-
tive designs in color, water-color landscape
sketches, architectural designs and sculpture.
As a sculptor Miss McGrath gives promise
of great things. She has the modelling
instinct, is well grounded in anatomy, and
has the artist’s eye for a graceful pose. Her
nude figures, female and male, are all arrest-
ing, sure of line and certain of poise. G.
Raynor Hoff, art director of the College,
himself a remarkably versatile artist, has
reason to be proud of his clever pupil. The
girl should be given the opportunity to study
abroad. Australia doesn’t produce so many
sculptors of ■ talent that she can afford to
hide tlie light of any of them under a bushel.
During the week in which Anzac Day
falls it is proposed to hold an exhibition
of pictures at Melbourne Athenaeum by artists
who saw war service. Among these wall be
Louis McCubbin, 'who -was responsible for
the artistic side of the War Museum, George
Benson, Colville, Napier Waller and H. M.
Paterson. If those who w T ere commissioned
to paint Armageddon are added the list
should include Will Dyson, Streeton and a
host of others. Almost every Australian
artist resident in London was sent across
to France at one time or another.
Belle Moore’s show of oils and pastels at
the Little Gallery, Melbourne, is more
remarkable for courage than capacity. The
lady handles ranges of mountains for pre-
ference, and her indifference to values is
Himalayan. Nevertheless, some of her
pastels show regard for the nude female
figure posed with the back towards the spec-
tator.
Dora Wilson (Fine Arts, Melbourne) has
been ransacking Europe for the convention-
ally picturesque. Hers is the sort of paint-
ing which misses the magazine-cover school
and in one or twb of these entertaining pic-
tures misses it by quite a lot. Amongst her
more sincere work are Nos. 21 and 26,
studies of the Paris boulevards, and No. 68,
an arresting little snap of “The Old Ladies
of Bruges.”


When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike.
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
Bed
and
° re akfast
Tariff
lf desired
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
m
L
E
H
O
T
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY
OPP
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel,” Sydney.
SOON PARTED.
‘•The fool and his money are soon parted” is as trite a quotation as
could be selected, ,bufe it has the disturbing effect of being so true that it
cannot be disregarded.
No financial institution, least of all a Savings Bank, could advocate that
money should be saved only and not spent. It is true that wise spending
is as necessary as wise saVing, but it is quite obvious that the saving
must come first.
That is where the widespread service of the Commonwealth Savings Bank
of Australia comes in. It provides every facility for the circulation of
money under the easiest and most profitable conditions.
Every Post Office in. Australia is an Agency of this Bank, and in every city,
every town, every district in the Commonwealth the Savings Son. . of the
Bank is made available to the people.
Commonwealtl) Savings of Bustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government ).
LONC LIFE
j—
>
A
Owing to special
process in manu-
facture of the lead,
the ‘Mephisto’ Copy-
ing Pencil lasts much
longer, yet writes
easily and smoothly
without heavy
pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
COPYING
THE POPULAR
PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checking, etc.
From all Stationers, etc.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, of " KOH-I-NOOR ” Pencil fame.
London Office—29, Kingsway. W.C.2
Australian Representative—
JOHN MACDOUG-ALL, P.O. Box 165, SYDNEY,
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE AUSTRALIA
THE OUALITY POLISH
KIWI
“T. 8.”: “Tamornie” (B. 5,/3/’3O) was in
luck if he was able to use washing-soda to
cool beer in New Guinea. When I was there
we used a mixture of salt and saltpetre.
"Harold Hardupp”: It is recognised
amongst the dogs in our neighborhood tnat
our own Snap, a fine collie,
and the Blanks’s Bingo, who
has bull-terrier blood in his
veins, are the rivals for the
fight championship of the dis-
trict. Whenever the two meet
in the street they sail in with-
out any of the usual canine
preliminaries, to the great de-
light of every other dog within
bark-sliot; but they are not
content with casual encoun-
ters. Whenever Snap gets
out, dogs rush from every
direction and join him in his
mission, which is to rush
fiercely to the house where
the Blanks live, a couple of
hundred yards away, and dash,
barking challenges to the dog
inside, up and clown the fence,
until he is almost too hoarse
to bark; Bingo returns the
compliment when he gets free,
and he also has a retinue of
dogs which join in the barking
commotion. Recently, because
the Blanks complained to us,
and we retorted a complaint
to them, both dogs have been
kept on the chain. The other
day what looked like a canine
deputation came to our fence
and serenaded Snap, who
barked back what was evi-
dently an explanation about
the chain. After a while the
deputation set off; watching'
it; I saw the dogs behave in
a similar manner outside
Bingo’s prison. Plainly the
deputationists had come to
inquire why the blazes their
champions were not giving
them the usual exhibitions,
and to urge them to be them-
selves.
i|s * *
“Murrnngnrry”: The marriage custom of
one northern tribe was invested with thrilling
adventures. The eligible damsels were shel-
tered in the centre of the village, and the
bachelors ’camped outside a ring of married
people, i In the dead of night the ardent
youth, like a raiding crocodile, crept < in
among the girls, seized the one of his choice,
and made a dash for matrimony. All her girl
companions mobbed him; and when they
clung and bit and scratched, and his sweet-
heart resisted stubbornly and strenuously, it
was no path of roses he trod to his gunyah.
If he got her there they were considered mar-
ried ; but if the attackers tore her from him
and got her back, he had to retire and try
his luck some other time. When Wallo
Jimmy set out on the great adventure a
base trick was played on him. He had
studied the layout of the camp, and knew
just where to grab his bride-elect. But
she didn’t want to be grabbed by .Timmy,
and secretly changed places after dark with
a gin who had one eye. .Timmy was ugly,
too, and the charming belle he had chosen
considered the single-eyed spinster the best
mate for him. Jimmy grabbed her, and was
THE MAN ON THE LAND.
CITY FLAPPER (watching the roller being put over the ploughed paddock ): "Uncle,
what are you going to grow there—rolled outs or mashed potatoes?”
joyfully surprised at the ease with which
he got. her away. Ills camp was in darkness,
like the girls’, and lie didn’t discover the
awful truth till next morning. There was
no escape then; he and the fright were mar-
ried —and she made him the best wife that
ever w r as.
* $ * *
“Disc Harrow”: Last? time I was at Woop
I found a good deal of head-scratching over
the affairs of the cricket club. A match was
wanted for a local holiday; and the secretary
had written to* the Ramblers at the nearest
town. The reply had come on headed
notepaper, and said that the Ramblers would
be glad to arrange the match, “on condition
that later in' the season you will give us a
quid pro quo." “Well, I dunno,” said the
president. “It seems' flamin’ hard, but I
suppose we better do it. So the hat was
passed round, and the secretary wrote: _ W e
are enclosing the pound for the professional
you mention, but are rather surprised at the
request from a club of your standing. ’
“Platypus”: The incredible blood-hunger
of sharks was brought home to me in Torres
Strait. With ..a shipment of remounts for
India we ran aground on a reef off Thursday
Island. There was nothing for it but to
wait -for high tide.
Four of the horses
had kicked th e
bucket, arid * after
much trouble we
got them: on deck
from whence we
heaved; them over
the: side -into the
three or four feet <
of water between
the ship and the
shore. Within ' a
few minutes sharks
gathered in dozens.
The water became
a whirl of swift,
darting bodies that
hurled themselves
at the carcases to
whip away with
lightning ; s p ee d
carrying great
lumps of torn flesh.
In less than five
minutes the horses
had disappeared.
Even then the fiends
were not satisfied.
They turned on
several of their
own kind and tore them to pieces amid a
bloodv froth of tossing water.
* * * • *
“Nikko”: In the days when cold-storage
was something fairly new, I attended the
first meeting of the Waitokatoka branch of
the newly-formed M'.L. Farmers’ Union. Old
O’Grady from the far Outback drove m to
the gathering, and was obviously disapprov-
ing when the chairman advocated' some con-
siderable expenditure on the new cult. “I
dunno whoy ye want to spend money that
way,” he grumbled, “when there’s Gilligan’s
woolshed would hould all the butter in the
country.” The chairman, after a petrified
silence, gently observed that the matter under
discussion was storage of the cold variety.
“Cold, is it?” the O’Grady muttered. “Well,
the woolshed’s cold enough. I spint a day
in it last, week, and there was a divil of a
draught blowing all the toime!”
Sj! ifc : ! : '!*
“Bad Australian” : If the “burning moun-
tain” at Wingen (N.S.W.) is still living up
to its ancient reputation, it should afford a
splendid opportunity to the gentle wild-
catter who has nothing better to unload upon
the confiding public than a hypothetical anti-
clinal formation and a seepage alleged to
contain mineral oil. In 1870 the mountain
was burning in two places, and at each point
it gave off dense volumes of gas with a
strong odor of kerosene. This odor was so
pungent and persistent that certain local
residents, being persuaded that the interior
was just one vast reservoir of kerosene, pro-
posed that a tunnel should be driven into the
hill,'and it was confidently asserted that an
expenditure of £2OO or £3OO would enable
the promoters of the scheme to tap the oil —•
OUTPOINTED.
FIRST DOG: “How did you get on with the porcupine?”
SECOND DIŢO: “He won—on points.
lashings of it. But the people who were ex-
pected to provide the money seem to have
been a perverse generation with no desire to
become oil magnates; so the disappointed
sponsors for the cat shooed the animal into
the bush and went home to their prosaic job
of pulling and shelling corn.
(Continued on page 21.)
WET NIGHTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Awake I lay,
And listened to the drumming of the rain
Upon the shingled roof, and far away
The roll of thunder o’er the Hooded plaiu,
Wind-swept and grey.
With thanks devout
For my snug quarters and the comforts near,
My thoughts strayed to the c-ainps of
farther-out,
Where rushing mobs I fancied I could hear,
And drovers shout.
Through dong dark hours
I-rode again in sodden saddle bent,
Before the swishing gusts and swirl-
ing showers,
Amid the heavy 'nauseating scent
Of gidya-flowers.
The thunder ,crash
Was blent with- crack of timber and the
tramp <
Of ringing hoofs, arid here and .there
the splash
Of pools that gleamed within the wakeful
camp .
At every flash.
Hard through the,wet
The panic-stricken cattle swept apace,
And lie who, rode, with, snares and
traps beset.
Still harder had to speed to win the race,
And risks forget.
THE VALUATION.
"For thirty pigs you may marry my daughter.”
"Many thanks; but I think I’ll stay single end save my bacon.”
The splitting skies,
Ere whip and wind had waked the "-misty
morns,
Were mingled with the flash of fright
ened eyes,
The gleam and glitter of the tossing horns,
And cattle cries.
And while the hoofs
Of railing riders plugged among the bogs,
We sensed a legion that, amid reproofs,
On run and farm sang, praises with the frogs,
’Neath drumming hoofs.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


1 1
\KO*£
and
\>eH er
yifcteM 'u/'S 9 '' 0 '
tte ***%#»» ff o e*
V iig»» Lies gi' ,es *
Lf‘S®e«e s**»*' {o , ,o« “gf'L,
Trta^' 0
\'b
Of 50
Co'J
rt»TP.V
fISJS* 5 ®
Kale% b 1
t j )e Gar ien f iffiji'
Coi«%t trM Mt
raw.';
■
SB
cs
m
Sf
“BBS*"
wm
m
w
SB
ss?
m
a
Plflv
gj
%§
sss
SSSBS
1
PVAYggj
NTRSf
:•:•:•:•
y. s


.
Weight
and
Quality
are factors in the
value of the stock. But purchasers’ business is to
Duy as cheaply as possible. Winchcombe Carson’s
business as salesmen is to see that their clients get
full value. And in that regard they are consistently
successful. Their energy, knowledge and determina-
tion in making sales are a complete safeguard for
owners’ interests.
CONSIGN CATTLE, SHEEP, LAMBS, TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Homebush Yards,
Sydney,
or
Enoggera Yard's,
Brisbane.
St. Cecrge
New Zealand's
Greatest Delicacy-
—- and fast becoming Australia’s. Tiny fnch-long fish,
unique in flavour, whitebait is found only in sparkling
New Zealand streams, then for but three months of the
year.
You, however, can have it the year round, with all its
original freshness and flavour, for it is canned on the
banks of the rivers the same day as it is oaught.
Try it. St. George Canned Whitebait will give you a
new meaning for the word “delicious.”
IRVINE AND STEVENSON’S
ST. GEORGE COMPANY, Ltd
Dunedin New Zealand
ST. GEORGE Delicacies
SEASONS MAY COME and
SEASONS MAY GO
But the holiday appeal of
Mt. Buffalo
National Park
never varies.
Spring, summer, autumn and v/inter
alike, the mountain scenery is the
finest in Australia, just as the Gov-
ernment Chalet is the finest holiday-
house in Australia.
Consult the
Government Tourist Bureaux,
Queen’s Walk, Melbourne, or
Martin Place, Sydney.
“Der Jong”: The cabled news that a huge
swarm of locusts is being chased across
India by the farming population armed with
drums, tin cans’ and similar methods of
shooing the curse on to next door reminds
me. After the South African War I was
living in the cavalry depot outside Pretoria
when an old-man cloud of locusts hove up.
The colonel in command was an eccentric
bird who set great store by the gardens
he had created about the depot. He at once
turned out every available soul to assist in
moving the locusts on, and himself led the
attack. I had to leave the depot and never
saw him again. But photographed on my
mind is the picture of him standing almost
invisible among the flying, leaping and crawl-
ing millions, flicking individual springhaans
off his geraniums with a hunting-crop.
* * * *
“Pick”: About the fighting weight of a
game rooster, fancifully clad in black, white
HE HADN’T NOTICED THAT THAT WAS RUN DOWN.
MRS. DOBBS (reporting visit to doctor): “He just looked at my tongue and told me
all I needed was a stimulant.”
MR. D.: “Gracious, dear! Not for your tongue, surely!”
and royal blue, and with a prominent red
beak and long red legs, the redbill of swamp-
land is a bird of singular ability, Though
the extensive area he inhabits might be
covered inches deep with water, and he does
not fly, he nevertheless can traverse the
whole region without wetting a foot. The
precarious, but to him sure, foothold by
which he marches is a clutch on the per-
pendicular reeds —singly too frail to bear
his weight. The reeds stagger and lurch,
but as he skips lightly among them he so
directs his tread that they carry him forward
to the next tuft or tussock, and this becomes
his stepping-off point for his next advance.
He never falls from his slender swaying
perch, and the speed with which he can
cross a morass is only outdone by that
which he can show on solid earth. There
the swiftest dog cannot overtake him.
* * * *
“Leddo”: Capt. Westland (B. 26/2/’3O)
says that the drawback to the Ceylon margosa-
tree is the objectionable nature of the smell
of its oil. If it can beat a species of tree
growing on Rottnest Island (W.A.) it must
be 'a corker. The Westralian vegetable
rejoices in the name of “violet wood” and is
harmless enough in its native state, but put
fire to it and you uncork the most out-
rageous stink imaginable. Practical jokers
on the island break up camps by privily
adding a chunk of the fearsome wood to the
fire, after which they get out of the road as
quickly as maybe. Nobody could have a
chance with the horrible smell, and strong
men have been known to dash away in such
haste as to leave beer behind.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A “swim” of Australian black
swans at Goring-on-Thames, “the only one
of its kind in England” (B. 12/2/’3O) ?
Well, it may be, though on two recent visits
to the Old Dart I never saw the birds. But
in conversation with an attendant in St.
James’s Park, close to Buckingham Palace,
I admired the white swans, told him liow
gome we introduced to the Torrens Bake in
Adelaide were promptly pecked to death by
the black majority, and suggested that would
happen to black swans in England at the
beaks of the whites. “It would not,” he
said. “We have just one blackie, Old Jim,
and he’s boss of the lake.”
».• * * *
“Atherton” : I wonder at my cheek when a
kid. I was horsetailer to the “pony drover,’'
well known in the Coonamble, Narrabri, Wal-
gett and Goondiwindi districts (N.S.W.) —
every prad in his outfit was a white pony.
Each little horse was trained in jumping and
show-ring tricks. At every country show
the arrival of the pony drover was an event.
And his outfit scooped up prizes for many
years. My specialty was thieving grass.
We lifted 5000 wethers from Been Baa and
set out for St. George across the Queensland
border. The stock route was a long narrow
lane almost destitute _of grass, hedged by
fences behind which grim horsemen, selection
after selection, watched the hungry flock
go by. When we camped at night the nearest
DEGENERATE DAYS.
MRS. SURRY HILLS : “The woman next door can’t resist a man in uniform.”
MRS. S. H.’S VISITOR : “Well, it ain’t much use these days—they just call up the
patrol-van.”
cocky would send his raw-boned sons to do
sentinel-duty on the fences. It was my duty
to see that the horses got a bellyful of grass.
Night after night I’d sneak down to the
ponies in the dark, take off their tinkling
bells and muffle their hoofs. They knew
what was doing. We’d go a few miles
down or up the stock route; then the
ponies would crowd silently round while I
snipped through the wires, hanging on to
each wire so that it would not “telephone”
a twang, and twisting it round the post.
The wires cut, the ponies would file silently
into the luscious paddock and lose no time
getting outside the cocky’s grass. I would
roll up in my blanket by them and have
them out of the paddock in the chilly dawn.
Repairing the fence was a matter of minutes.
The escapes I had make my blood run cold,
but I was never caught.
#
“Mulyan” : A black snake with three dis-
tinct tails was- killed the other day at
Katoomba (N.S.W.). Several specimens
have been found at different times and places
with two tails, and some years ago squatter
Percy Wright, of Walcha district, discovered
one with two heads, and it was killed and
preserved. The Richmond River abos. often
spoke of two-headed black snakes. They
were afraid of the freaks, regarding them
as some sort of debil-debil. One head at a
time was enough for Binghi; when the
reptile reared at him with two he became
bashful.
* * * *
“Avon”: “Fernie” (B. 12/3/’.30) mentions
that the wearing of the tiki by European
males makes the Maoris chuckle, hut doesn’t
say why. The dreadful truth may as well
out. Tiki was the Maori Adam—the father
of the race. The little grotesque greenstone
images named after him are worn, as a
matter of Maori usage, only by married
women. They are symbols of fecundity.
The real Maori greenstone tikis, not to be
confused with trade imitations, are family
heirlooms, handed dowm from generation to
generation, and decorated just a little more
by each custodian of the treasure. And the
additions have their meaning, so that a tiki
in the eyes of a tohunga or other learned
Maori tells a long family history.
■*. * * *
“E.S.”: The most formidable looking thing
in the bush is the thorny devil (Moloch
horridus), which is also called the horned
dragon and spiky lizard, and is classed
among the world’s “nightmare” animals. It
is about a foot in length, thick and, stumpy
in figure, with a spotted, yellowish body
covered with lumps, spines and prickles. Its
spiny legs are armed with strong claws, and
its head is decorated with horns. But all
that frightfulness is mere bluff, for its look
is its only defence against natural foes. _ ft
is as harmless and inoffensive as a little
gecko, and rather friendly in disposition.
Some people keep it as a pet, allowing it
to feed about the garden-paths and -beds,
where it picks up the small black ants with
its slender tongue. Moloch is the modern
representative of a giant Australian lizard,
a skeleton of which was discovered a few
years back. That reptile’s head was two
feet broad and bore five large horns.
jJ: % #
“Yarri”: Binghi can claim 'an abnormal
big-toe development. He never stoops to
pick up an object that he can lift with the
mundowic. A conspicuous part of the
extremity is the yawning space between' the
big toe and its neighbor, which is caused by
the frequent use of those members for hold-
ing things. When stalking game, Binghi, dis-
guised as an emu or kangaroo, trails the
spear along the ground with the foot, and
when he is finishing a new nulla-nulla,
boomerang or spear, one end of the weapon is
gripped between the toes. The big toe is also
the chief gripping agent in tree-climbing, the
notches cut here and there in the trunk
being seldom more than sufficient to accommo-
date it, so that it has to bear the whole
weight of the body. AVhen Binghi has to
make fire by the friction of two sticks he
sits on the ground and holds one piece with
his feet. A man with four hands doesn’t
need many other tools.
* * * *
“Bad Australian” : When T was a whist-
ling boy I was the sole proprietor of a non-
descript pup, mostly wire-haired terrier,
named Gabbet on account of his cannibalistic
tendencies —he always would attempt to eat
the other mong, and he would fight any
living thing except a bullant. I trained
him on the predatory goannas that infested
the old bush home and its environs, and
when he got into his stride he made no more
fuss of a 6ft. goanna than he did of a
“blue-tongue.” He made it a welter, and
inside three months chickens in all stages of
development were eating up everything on
the place except the mortgage. Then he
took to the “tigers” and “red-bellies” in the
adjacent swamp and got away with it. He
waged unrelenting war on all reptiles until
about eight years later, when he met his
Waterloo. He was fooling with a tame
magpie. There came a short, shrill yelp,
an agonising squawk, and Gabbet standing
over a heap of magpie meat with a depre-
cating expression in the only eye the snappy
bird had left him. The chickens attended
to Maggie’s obsequies, and four days later
I acted as sexton and chief mourner for poor
old Gabbet.
“WY-LAH”
(THE FUNEREAL COCKATOO).
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He flies —yet only seems to drift —-
So leisurely and yet so swift!
Even the owl on midnight wing
Is no more silent secret thing.
No raucous cry of joy or fear
Proclaims this sombre trav’ler near.
Above the eucalyptus tops
lie wheels a moment ere he stops.
One looks again—in noonday light
The bird has disappeared from sight!
No trembling leaf, no shaking flower,
Betrays him in his lofty bower.
But, stand you still, and lend an ear:
A faint sweet whistle, high and clear,
Winds out upon the crystal air
And calls his mate to meet him there.
Then, look you well, and make no sound,
And haply to the torrid ground
May fall a blossom-laden stalk,
Clean-cut, as with a tomahawk!
Comes once again the cadent call,
Again the flowering branches fall,
And then two silent shadows pass
And drift across the golden grass,
Across the plain, across the range,
So swift, so silent and so strange!
And whence they came and whither go
I cannot tell; I do not know.
S.A.
C. [?]. SO[?]TER.


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydneyl
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
TRAVEL IN COMFORT
with a
VICARS ALL-WOOL
TRAVELLING RUG
These Rugs are of the same high quality as
VICARS’ WORSTED SUITINGS
Manufactured by—
JOHN VICARS & CO., LIMITED,
MARRICKVILLE, N.S.W.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a. la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive B'older.
EE
HaJjsj
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
THE MAN
ON THE [?]AND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
C[?]PARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
è
CARE OF SHEARING MACHINERY.
“Kripple”: While station-owners and
-managers are bent on economies they would
do well to pay some attention to their shed
machinery. To drive long lengths of shafting
badly out of line can absorb anything from
25 to 50 per cent, more power than is neces-
sary. Then the wear and tear on bearings
—often to be seen with unsightly and
unnecessary propsticks under them to stop
vibration —is ridiculously heavy.
Get a competent man to reline the head-
gear periodically. Shed foundations, which
are often in loose black soil, “come and go,”
thus throwing machinery out of plumb,
though this is not apparent to the naked
eye in all cases. “Oh, what does it matter?”
I hear someone say. “It’s only used a few
weeks in the year.” This is a common cry,
but it’s a poor excuse for the heavy waste
in expensive fuel which goes on yearly in
many sheds.
GREEN VITRIOL FOR CANE AND
CITRUS.
“Noah ’Fraid”: It has been proved that
the chlorotic condition of sugar-cane is
largely controlled by the application of lewt.
sulphate of iron (green vitriol) per acre.
And a large increase in the percentage and
speed of germination was obtained by soaking
the cane seed in a half per cent, solution
of the salt. These are U.S.A. experiments,
but I myself have found the green crystals to
be a winner in more than one instance.
It would, I think, pay citrus-growers to
apply the salt in their groves, say, once
every six or eight years, at the rate of ilb.
per tree, sown broadcast around the out-
skirts in the late autumn. This would keep
their trees in good heart.
BE AN EXPERIMENTER.
“L’Fou”: Are you growing the plants most
suitable, economically and geographically, to
your land and locality? Every farm is
wholly dependent upon plant growth, and
better plants mean better living. Have your
own experimental plots. Study of State
experimental stations, current agricultural
literature, your neighbors’ methods and
results—these will help; but don’t let the
other fellow have all the adventure of dis-
covery.
A few experimental plots will sooner or
later yield dividends as well as interest. The
idiosyncrasies of plants, their behavior in
different climates and places, show endless
variation. Such small factors as a week’s
earlier maturity, a stronger rooting system,
a resistance to certain disease, may mean
all the difference between prosperity and
failure.
There are prizes in this field open to any
keen observer. The subject never remains
static. No matter what variety or method
you are dealing with, there may be some-
thing better or more suited to your bit of
ground.
A CURE FOR SMUT IN BARLEY.
“Fernland”: A simple treatment for
eliminating smut in barley has received a
thorough testing in Maoriland, and, though
confined to one province, has substantially
raised the Dominion’s average yield.
The seed is soaked in water at from 60
to 70 deg. F. for five hours, and then
immersed in water at 127 deg. F. for five
minutes. This has been proved to eliminate
smut, and seed grown from the treated seed
—what is technically called “seed once
removed from treatment” —can be used with
confidence without further treatment pro-
vided all implements which come in con-
tact with the grain have been disinfected
with a strong solution of formalin.
The method was applied last season to
the barley grown on 4330 acres in Canter-
bury Province, and the average yield from
treated seed —all “mill firsts” grade—was 53.5
bushels to the acre. The yield for the whole
province (9360 acres sown) was 45.87
bushels to the acre, and included a fair
proportion of “mill seconds.” The average
for the Dominion for the four years immedi-
ately preceding the commencement of this
treatment in Canterbury was under 324
bushels to the acre; for the four years since
treatment was started the average has been
over 40 bushels, though the area treated
even in the latest year has been less than
20 per cent, of the total area sown.
Departmental results confirm the practical
experience of growers. The companies which
undertook the application of the process on
their farms are now experimenting with
1000 acres of wheat and oats.
WATER FOR IRRIGATION.
“R. Iv. Deea”: Probably 99 per cent, of
the water used for irrigation in Australia is
fresh, and a good job, too! In isolated
cases, and in a small way, bore water is
utilised. Bore water is usually brackish, and
more often than not is heavily charged with
mineral solids; this is especially so where the
flow is of any consequence.
As most schemes using bore water utilise
iron piping, the lower the content of mineral
solids the better. It is always advisable to
expose bore water to the air in a storage tank
or dam prior to use. I have seen it blacken
and kill a crop when used direct from the
bore, but if exposed for a few days it gave
quite a good result. Another important
point is to make sure that the soil is not
at all salty before any attempt is made to
irrigate it with brackish water.
“Yeoman’s” calculation showing the depo-
sition of 77321 b.. of salt per acre from the
application of two acre-feet of water con-
taining 100 grains per gallon (JB. 22/l/’3O)
provides for the deposition of the whole of
the salts, and roughly amounts to 193 parts
per 100,000 parts of soil. No ordinary veget-
able will stand this for a week, much less for
three months; that is, until rain comes.
But wait! The two acre-feet would be
applied to the soil by several waterings. The
soil dries out and the salt concentrates at
the surface, so that each watering becomes
more concentrated. I venture to say the
surface soil moisture will be almost as salt
as the sea ere the last watering takes place.
Then the crop will be in a sorry condition.
A farmer in the Goulburn Valley (Vic.)
has a large dam on a surface water-course.
At the foot of the dam a bore tapped a
supply of brackish water at a depth of 46
feet showing 100 grains per gallon. The
waters are made to supplement each other.
Used 1 to 1, a water is obtained having 50-60
grains per gallon, and the supply is doubled.
During a normal year the ratio is made 1 in
3, or even less. Propositions of this descrip-
tion are the only ones worthy of mention
when discussing the salinity of bore waters
for irrigation simply because the great majo-
rity of our bore waters show more than
200 grains of soluble solids per gallon.
WHEN TO SELL THE PIGS.
“Kell”: Dairy-farmers raising pigs as a
side-line are sometimes astray regarding the
stage at which it is advisable to stop feeding
and send the pigs away. In most districts
the majority of the animals go to bacon fac-
tories, and prices vary in different parts of
the Commonwealth. Those ruling on the
North Coast (N.S.W.) as I write will serve
as an illustration.
The ideal baconer weighs from 1001 b. to
1251 b. and is worth from 70s. to 735. In
the saleyards the pigs not suitable for bacon
and weighing about 1501 b. realise from 765.
to 80s. The few shillings received for the
extra 251 b. or so do not pay for the feed
and labor.
On the usual dairy-farm menu a 1251 b.
animal puts on from 51b. to 71b. a week, so
it takes three or four weeks’ feeding to earn
an extra 75., or thereabouts.
Pigs sent away immediately they reach
the prime-bacon stage return the biggest
profit, for then feed is released for the next
batch.
WHEN YOU ROB A BEE-TREE.
“Honeybug”: When the average country-
dweller robs a bee-tree he either leaves the
swarm to its fate or else puts it in a crude
frameless box and trusts that the bees will
stay. There is a better way, and it doesn’t
cost more than a few shillings. For material
you need only a couple of petrol-cases, sound
and clean, a smoker and a couple of sheets
of artificial comb foundation.
To make your hive, pull the cases apart
carefully and take two end pieces. Cut them
to x 9|in. Next cut two side
pieces 9£in. wide; the length is to
bo 18|in. plus twice the thickness of
the end pieces. Nail these together, and you
will have an open box without top or bottom.
It is a good idea to put a piece of tin 9|in.
x 4in., bent at right angles down the centre,
on each corner. This will stop warping, and
will keep out the weather. At the. inside
edge of each end piece you will have to chisel
out a piece Jin. x £in., so as to leave a ledge
for the frames to rest on.
The lid is just a flat, water-tight board
which rests on the top. The bottom is a
similar board, the same width as the body
of the hive but two or three inches longer.
Along the sides and one end tack strips of
x ijin. wood. When the hive is put
on this bottom you will find a suitable
entrance left.
The hive is now complete except for its
eight frames and strips of foundation. I
recommend buying the frames, as it is beyond
an amateur to make a good job of them.
You will need to cut strips of the foundation
18in. x lin., place one in the groove in the top
bar of each frame, and pour a little melted
wax in. It is essential to use foundation
in order to have straight combs.
Rob the hive in the usual way, and if
possible select two straight pieces, of comb
containing young bees. Tie these in frames
with string, and place in the centre of the
hive with the other frames on either side.
Now if you sweep the bees out on the
ground and place the hive over them, they
will go up and cluster on the frames of
young bees. Lift the hive on to its stand,
and in a few days you can cut the strings off
the two combs, as the bees will have secured
them to the frames.
If it is a good swarm and the season is
good, the hive will be full in four or six
weeks. It will then be necessary to make
(Continued on page 25.)


xsg
/ _P -
A
&z
. y*
wmmrnm
mmm
Cl
Jips^Spsiissii
P
• •• •
!' Vi
itii
h
X
ISSSHs
Z !
KS&
1
1
Ml
M
m
mm
mm
m
***&3a®£
I
m
m,
MW
Glad to see you, old chap. You’ve
arrived right at the psychological
moment. Just in time for a K.B.
Ever see a finer sight on a summer day?
Look at that sparkle—like a fine champagne.
And the head on it! Makes the dusty old
throat hanker for relief . . . why, the very
thought of it brings a tingle to the palate
. . . put it there ! It’s a TRUE Lager.
brewed and Bottled by TOOTH 8C CO., LIMITED
KENT BREWERY, SYDNEY
TOOTHS
a true
LAOER


WILLYS - OVERLAND FINE MOTOR CARS
&
&
O UCH smoothness of opera-
tion, such power as ex-
perienced when driving the
Whippet Six, will delight you.
In first, second and top gear
at all speeds—the smooth,
vibrationless running is in
evidence throughout. Forced
feed lubrication ensures the
proper oiling of all bearings
and engine parts. This
smoothness of operation
means greater engine life,
greater economy, greater
comfort.
Arrange to-day with any
Whippet -Willys Knight
Dealer to see and drive the
Whippet Six —the finest
engineered car in the low-
priced field.
DENOTES ITS SMOOTH
VIBRATIONLESS
RUNNING
?J=SN^
vJ
ft
A
4
3
li 1
WHIPPET SIX
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
MESSRS. OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
68-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
MESSRS. OVERLAND VICTORIA PTY., LTD.,
117-121 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
MESSRS. OVERLAND SYDNEY, LTD.,
148-150 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
MESSRS. E. G. EAGER & SON, LTD.,
Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane.
MESSRS. ADAMS MOTORS, LIMITED,
442 Murray Street, Perth.
MESSRS. H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.
53-63 Bathurst Street, Hobart.


Full flexibility in a
double-strength boot
The toughest leather.... and
in twice the usual thickness. . .
is used for the sole of this stout
Abbey Cossack. Its upper,
too, is made stronger. .. .
being lined throughout with
soft leather that adds to the
comfort of the boot. The
tongue fastens at sides to
exclude grass seeds, dust, etc.
The instep arch fits naturally,
since the shape of the upper is
specially adapted to the curve
of the foot. Easy pliancy in
wear is a feature of the Abbey
Cossack.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all styles,
but the higher-priced tan boot has
an upper of special calf. Order,
also, the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy new cleaning outfits (2/6
complete).
Tan Willow Calf, 46/6 & 41/6
Black Box Calf . . . . 39/6
Sporting catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPLI69
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed- —
*
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
d
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY.
gg■*« ?»
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak without Notes, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
COWBOY SADDLES
If you are in-
terested in the
latest cowboy
rig, saddle,
bridle, breast-
plate, chaps,
boots, spurs
and hat write
for our new
book about
them. It’s free
for the asking.
Sign here.
mm
BI
(s
s ■
Name
Address
Send me your New Cowboy Book, Free of Cost.
JOHN BRUSH,
The Cowboy Outfitter,
371 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
And at 431 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE, Q.
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUM 1 9 WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Hep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
THE
SHAVE
PLOUGH
Shaves Patent Stump-jump
Reversible Disc Plough.
For full particulars apply to the
manufacturers or any agent, when
illustrated booklet will be posted
to you.
Inter-State and Overseas Agents:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd.,
Miller’s Point, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
W. Y. Scrutton,
34 North Terrace West, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND:
Clark & Fauset,
Eagle Street, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
H. J. Wigmore, Ltd.,
Wellington Street, Perth.
TASMANIA:
W. Hart & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
Charles Street, Launceston.
J. H. Stutterd,
Wynyard.
H. C. Buchanan,
10 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND:
M. Steinberg,
Box 893, Wellington.
SOUTH AFRICA:
Mangold Bros., Ltd.,
Port Elizabeth.
R. M. Ross & Co.,
Capetown.
Manufactured by
CHANDLERS
(D. & W. CHANDLER, LTD.),
FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY.
AND AT WARRNAMBOOL, BENDIGO.
HORSHAM, BALLARAT AND PORT-
LAND, VICTORIA.
c their
happiness
ENSURE the future hap-
piness of your tittle ones
by investing your surplus
funds in P.P. Bank DEPOSIT
CERTIFICATES. This is
undoubtedly the finest form
of insurance.
P.P. Bank Deposit Certificates
are safe, convenient, never below
par, and are issued for any
amount.
Write us for full particulars or
consult our officers, free of
charge.
Have a Bank Account—Keep it Growing .
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY^
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London..
another hive body; fit it with frames and
foundation, and place it on top of the old
K~e. The bees will start to work in the
top storey, but any honey they gather must
be left for winter feed.
I have a hive, taken from a tree last
year, three storeys high and full of honey.
When you compare a box of comb, built any-
how, that has to be broken to get the honey
with one or two storeys of frames of comb
which can be capped and strained, and the
combs returned to the hive to be cleaned and
filled again—well, you realise that the time
and few shillings involved in making a good
job of the thing are well spent.
FARM FORESTRY AND REDWOOD.
“Ivabbionba” : In a recent number of the
N.S.W. “Agricultural Gazette” the Califor-
nian redwood is described as “slow-growing
and frequently sparse and unsatisfactory in
habit....the timber is valuable, but the
species is not likely to be planted for this
purpose in N.S.W.” I should like to take
the writer to see a redwood which, within
a few yards of where this is being written,
rises well over a hundred feet. It is just
about 40 years old, and was planted hap-
hazard among a dense growth of other trees
in a site not more favorable than could be
found on many million acres in southern and
eastern Australia.
At stumping height my redwood would
square six feet, and at 50 (or even 60) feet
it would square two feet. Which, if I know
anything about milling, means that it con-
tains well' over 4000 super, feet of the timber
most in demand of all the softwoods. Judg-
ing by its towering habit 50 trees to the
acre could have been planted without any
serious loss by stunting. And that; without
allowing anything for the top half of the
trunk, would give over 200,000 feet of mill-
able timber to the acre. My last purchase
of redwood lumber (in Albury) ran out a
lot over £5 per 100 ft. super.; but even at
£5 it sounds something like £IO,OOO per
acre, 40 years after planting.
It has further to be considered that the
redwood is easily raised. Every young tree
will give several suckers every year, while
stumps, when the grown trees are cut down,
will give up to a hundred luxuriant plants
each. And neither stock nor rabbits seem
to care for the foliage, nor even the young
bark. If cattle are not allowed in a plan-
tation until the trees are too big to be
damaged by their horns, there is little, if any,
further care called for. And so far I have
never heard of the tree succumbing to any
disease.
I may add that a closely-planted clump
of these trees is a perfect shelter for stock. I
have seen stock standing quite dry and
comfortable under them after a day-long
wintry downpour.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Gan lucerne be grown in the colder and
drier N.S.W. districts? (2) Amount of seed
to sow? (3) When and how to sow? (4)
When to top-dress?— s37s.
(1) Yes, provided the soil is not too
shallow, and that it is not “wet land.” (2)
In a 201 b. pasture-seed-mixture, include lib.
to 21b. of lucerne. In sowing for pasture
purposes in wheat districts with a limited
rainfall, use 21b. to 31b. of seed per acre.
To get a very fine-stemmed hay, sow 161 b. of
seed to the acre, without other seed. (3)
In autumn, save in very cold localities, where
spring sowing is practicable. On large areas
seed may be sown through a drill, using a
grass-seed box and allowing the seed to fall
in front of the hoes or discs. If no grass-seed
box is on the drill mix the seed with super.,
lewt. to the acre, and pull the tubes out of
the hoes or discs, so that the manure and
seed will be broadcast in front of them. The
seed should be covered with about half an
inch of soil. On small areas the seed may be
broadcast by hand or with a machine. (4)
After cultivation, in late July or early
August, at the rate of 2cwt. of super, to the
acre.
How to rid a N.S.W. farm of Mexican
poppy? —s32s.
Isolated plants should be destroyed by
hand-cutting, and thick patches by disc cul-
tivation, especially in the young stages.
Spraying experiments with sodium chlorate
are being carried out by the N.S.W. Dept,
of Agriculture, but results are not yet to
hand.
What varieties of tomatoes do best in
N.S.W. under glass? —s369.
For the low type of house, Early Dwarf
Red, or Adelaide Dwarf Red are most popu-
lar. In the centre rows of the house, where
there is scope for high growth, Bonny Best,
a Canadian strain, has done fairly well.
(1) Weight of English potato seed required
to plant an acre? (2) Average yield in N.
Q’land? (3) Time to mature? (4) Best way
to plant, cut or whole? (5) Weight of
onion seed required for an acre? (6) When
to plant in N. Q'land ? —5148.
(1) Seven to ten hundredweight, according
to size of seed —the bigger the seed the greater
the quantity. (2) In Rockingham division
(English potatoes), 1.98 tons. (3) Three to
four months. (4) Whole. (5) Four pounds
per acre. (6) March to May.
Is carbide slush good for use in. a garden,
and if so how much and how often? —s232.
It is slaked lime, which is good for a soii
containing much clay, to which it may be
applied at the rate of half a ton per acre.
Let it dry out before use.
(1) What could be mixed through a com-
post heap (garden ref use ) to stimulate decom-
position? (2) How much per ton of refuse?
(3) How can soil be analysed to determine
percentages of nitrogen, phosphoric acid and
potash? (4) What percentages should be
contained in soils of high and medium fer-
tility?—sl3B.
(1) Depends on extent to which decomposi-
tion has advanced. If compost heap is being
formed, a mixture of ammonium sulphate 2
parts, ground rock phosphate 1 part, ground
limestone 1 part, could be used. (2) Two
hundredweight (3) Too big a subject for a
brief reply. (4) Depends on the nature of
the crop to be grown, climate and other condi-
tions. Plant food is only one of six essen-
tial factors, all intimately associated with
growth.
(1) What diseases do bees suffer fromf
(21 Where can I get a booh on the subject?
—5400.
(1) Principal diseases are American foul
brood, affecting the brood larvae, caused by
an oxganism the spoies of which will live
in honey for a long period. European foul
brood is similar to American, but easier to
eradicate. Broods of bees will also die if
chilled. Paralysis, mildly infectious but not
very serious, affects adult bees, and can be
controlled by the introduction of a young
queen from another strain. Dysentery
is caused by long confinement in the hive
at a low temperature and the eating of
honey which is unsuitable for winter food.
Sunshine is the best cure, and the provision
of a warm compact brood nest the best pre-
ventive. Another disease is Noscmia apis,
which resembles paralysis but causes heavier
mortality. The disease makes progress where
the vitality of the strain has reached a low
ebb. Spring dwindling, probably due to mal-
nutrition, is sometimes accompanied by
dysentery. (2) See Farmers’ Bulletin No.
129: “The Beginner in Bee Culture,” obtain-
able from Dept, ot Agriculture, Sydney.
(1) Names and addresses of factories and
other buyers of casein in N. 8. Wales. (2)
Price of casein delivered at factory? (3)
Would clean galvanised tanks do to heat it
in? (4) Likely district in N.S.W. to operate
inf— 4B63.
(1) Milk Industries, Ltd., Lismore
(N.S.W.), buy crude casein from farms to
supply their factories situated at Lismore,
Byron Bay and Murwillumbah. Purified and
complete processed casein is sold chiefly to
plywood manufacturing businesses. (2) Crude,
£35 per ton. (3) Open coppers are used. (4)
Any farm in proximity to the factories would
be suitable. Farms situated on the banks
of the Richmond River, making use of river
transport facilities, are most suitable.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Bill R.”: Build your sheep-drafting yards
on the side of a hill, with the races facing up
the slope, and all entrance gates at the
lower sides of the yards. Half the trouble in
putting the woollies through will thus be
avoided. Sheep draw readily uphill, but
always decline to go down.
“Fysh”: For punctured hoof—a common
trouble in horses and dangerous—put on
one or two poultices; then syringe with per-
manganate of potash solution, and plug with
wadding soaked in equal parts of kerosene
and Stockholm tar. Next tack on a shoe,
under which place a leather sole. Remove
the shoe every three days to apply new
dressing and to see how the wound is pro-
gressing.
“Darken”: For newchums only. Three-
parts fill a jam-tin with dirt, wrap a stick
round with flannel and stand it therein, with
half an inch showing above the tin-top. Fill
the rest with fat, and you have the time-
honored slush-lamp. You must have the dirt,
or your wick won’t stand up, and if it’s not
a jam-tin you’ll lose prestige.
“Otnim”: When the Railway Department
is relaying sleepers near you, see if you can
get a supply. They make great shed walls
as well as posts, and are useful in many
ways about the farm. Capital pigsties are
quickly manufactured from them.
“Disc Harrow”: For orchard and market-
garden wear there is nothing to beat the
rubber sea-boot. It is bone-dry and comfort-
able in all seasons. The loose top of the
gum-boot allows dirt and water to drop in,
but this can. be easily remedied by a piece of
string passed through the eyelet-hole and
drawn tight. When there is work to be done
in the rain a chaff-bag allows more freedom
than an oilskin, and is just as efficient for
short periods.
“Te A.”: Skim milk left over after feeding
the calves and pigs can be used as fertiliser.
Applied judiciously to pastures, it will give
good results; but don’t dump it all in the
one spot or the herbage will be rank. Spread
it over a wide area.
“Bushman”: Don’t cut your hand off with
that kerosene-tin. A handle-grip can be
made from wire coiled round a bolt, old
pieces of hose-pipe, a sheep’s shank-bone or
a bit of round wood bored down.
“Gardener”; “J.G.’s” theory (B. 5/3/’3O)
may be all right for tree-planting in loose
and sandy soils, but it’s no good for anything
tight. I’ve seen a good few orchards planted,
and the chap who sticks to the small ho’e
strikes trouble every time. Root-bound, the
tree never gets half a chance. Plant ’em
both ways and see which makes a do.
“Poker”: Cull out all the old stock in the
poultry yard before winter comes. Put those
that are not wanted in a special pen and
fatten them for Easter.
“Darken”: When cutting old rubber tyres
(the uses of which are manifold, from lialf-
soling your bluchers up), have some water bj
you. Keep wetting the knife, and you’ll find
the job much easier. The same applies to
cutting cork.
“Will Seer” : I am inclined to think that
the salt which damaged “H.M.M.’s” orange-
trees (B. 12/2/’3O) was washed below by
flooding—with good, drainage the usual
remedy. That an orange-tree can stand a
dressing of 321 b. of sulphate of ammonia
surprises me. Pruning and flooding would
have done the trick without recourse to
the fertiliser, but I am not saying the trouble
will not return when the new sap becomes
charged with salt.
“Leg-rope”: In summer those who have to
draw water from small shallow wells for
milk-cooling purposes sometimes have diffi-
culty in keeping the temperature reasonably
low. Take a piece of pipe long enough to
reach across the well and make about a dozen
hacksaw cuts in it. Block up one end ; slip
the cooler outlet hose over the other. When
the pipe is laid across the well, the water
falls in a spray, thus losing more of its
warmth in the cool air in the well than if
allowed to return in a solid stream. If the
water is not flowing freely* enough, make
more hacksaw cuts.
“Chevroford” : The people who warned the
Yic. Government of the consequences which
would follow the wholesale destruct'on of
timber in the Mallee have been justified iii
an extraordinary way. In places where
fairly decent roads were made camels are
beginning to reappear. One farmer in the
Ouyen. district regularly uses a hairy oont as
the only possible means of getting supplies
across the sand-drifts to his farm


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies- need not attach
coupons.
iiTTr *I le , ri « l ! t . I ' jf section and rejection is reserved.
\\ anted to Sell • or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Motor-driver, Sydney, can drive and repair anv
—s37o Cai ° r tIUCk ’ lengthy garage exp., wants job.
Youth, Vic., well educated, strong, wants to learn
station work. Wages secondary consideration.—s3B2
Young man (24), Vic., wide exp. wheat and
sheep, conscientious worker, wants job on farm or
station. Riverina district (N.S.W.) preferred.—s3lB.
Capable young country woman, N.S.W., used
management home, seeks position, April, as com-
panion-help. Thirty shillings per week.—s3l2.
Man (22), N.S.W., book-keeping and teaching exp.,
wants job as book-keeper and tutor on station.-—5310.
Governess (21), C. of E., wants position Q’land,
country; teach all subjects except music; assist
light duties. Refs.—s32B.
loung lady, Q’land, wants position as companion
to elderly lady living in country. Used to bush
1ife.—5360.
Young man (22), Vic., exp. in mixed farming,
and motor-cars, wants job. Go anywhere.
SToung woman (19), Q’land, musical, nursing exp.,
wants job on station. Refs.-—5358.
Ex-ship’s officer (25), S.A., well educated, handy
and good horseman, wants job on station or in
Islands. Go anywhere.—s 347.
Sailor, Sydney, wants job with fishing co., prefer-
ably one operating along Great Barrier Reef.—s2o2.
Young man, Sydney, married, car- and truck-driver
mechanic, knowledge customs and forwarding agency
work, wants j0b.—3568.
Young man (26), N.S.W. building trades exp.,
handy with carpenters’ tools and able to paint
wants j0b.—5371.
Educated young man (21), Sydney, book-keeping
and other clerical exp., strong, wants job anywhere.
Refs. —5372.
Drover, Q’land, life-long exp. cattle and sheep,
wants job cool district, Monaro (N.S.W.) preferred
—5384.
Young lady, Vic., book-keeper, typist, will give
services for two weeks from April 2 in country or
on station.—s 446.
Lady book-keeper and typist, Sydney, wants
country position.—s4s6.
Educated man, Sydney, wants secretarial or tutorial
position.—s 443.
Young man, Sydney, literary and publishing exp.,
legal training, wants whole or part time employment.
Library, advertising or research work. —5442. '
Young man (22), several years’ exp. coffee culti-
vation and factory-curing in E. Africa, wishes to
hear from coffee-planting cos. wanting persons to
plant on share basis.—s3ol.
loung Russian (23), Q’land, wants job in Islands;
three years’ commercial exp. with American firm in
China.—s42B.
Young man, Vic-., wishes to gain wheat-farming
exp.; able handle horses, worked on farm, strong
and willing.—s 424. ,
Man, Vic., lifelong exp. stock and land, wants
position manager farm or grazing property.—s42s.
Young man, N.S.W., Uni. education,, bush exp.,
wants position, anywhere, anything. Risks or danger
welcomed.—s42o.
Secondary schoolteacher, Vic,, wants position as
travelling companion or tutor to persons travelling
overseas.—s4o2.
To buy, second-hand, artist’s easel, canvas frames
and etching press, cheap and in good order.—s 426.
To buy Sin. or 6in. sand pump and engine to
work same.—s42l.
To buy, second-hand, “Five Years in Turkey,”
“Press and General Staff,” “History of A.1.F.”
(Anzac vol. 1). —5422.
To buy vol. 77 (.Tune-Nov., 1888), “Harper’s
Magazine.”—s392.
To buy “The Dreadnought of the Darling” and
“The Lane That Had No Turning.”—s4o7.
To borrow “The Fast Way to Health.”—s32o.
To borrow or buy Count Herman Keyserling’s
“Creative Understanding” and “Recovery of Truth ”
—5313.
Words of verse entitled “Flying Kate.” —5309.
Medici or other prints, colored, suitable for school
decoration; also original paintings, moderate price,
framed or unframed.—s44l.
Plays by Barrie, Milne and others, suitable for
school library.—s 444.
Words of poem beginning “Shanghaied in San
Francisco.”—s432.
Words of Schubert’s “Hark! Hark! The Lark,”
and “Ave Maria” from “Cavalleria.”—s43o.
Voung lady, Q’land, would like to correspond
with Buli.ktin readers residing on stations and
interested in reading, astronomy, fauna and flora
—5225.
Information Sought.
Who was Lilith in mythology? —s22o.
Lilith is a female demon of Jewish folk-
lore, equivalent to the English vampire.
The personality and name are derived from
a Babylonian-Assyrian demon Lilit or Lilu
which was believed to have a special power
for evil over children. The superstition was
extended to a cult surviving among some
Jews even as late as the seventh century
a.d. In the Rabbinical literature Lilith
becomes the first wife of Adam, but flies
away from him and becomes a demon.
(1) On Nov. 13, 1833, there occurred a
great fall of meteors. It, is asserted that a
similar fall occurs periodically. If so, when
can the next fall he expectedt (2) Has the
sun ever been obscured throughout the tvorld
at the same time? —5066.
(1) We are now approaching the time
when a return of the Leonid meteoric shower
is due. This was the fall that occurred on
Nov. 13, 1833, and again on Nov. 14-15,
1866. It was looked for at the same time
in 1899, but, owing probably to planetary
Eierturbation, did not appear. The next return
s due in Nov., 1932, but as the storm
meteors take about three years to pass a
given point, the phenomenon should gradu-
ally commence during the winter of 1981 and
reach maximum intensity by Nov. 15, 1932.
The_ meteors will not be seen from Aus-
tralia, as they will fall during our day-
time. (2) No.
In making a will is it necessary to sign it
m the presence of a J.P.? —5343.
No. Any two intelligent adult persons can
witness it. Testator and witnesses must sign
in each other’s presence, and the fact that
this has been done should be embodied in an
attestation clause. Witnesses should give
their addresses and occupations.
The top of my oalc sideboard has become
badly warped. How can I straighten it? —
4480.
The top should be taken off and placed
hollow side down on a cold stone or earth
floor until it straightens itself.
(1) Method of applying veneer to cabinet
work? (2) Most suitable wood to use under
veneer? —44o6.
(1) It can be done with a veneering
hammer or by the application of pressure,
applied by means of handscrews and cramps,
and heated boards, technically known as
“cauls.” (2) Q’land maple, clear mild-
grain, bone dry; American clear pine and
yellow pine. :
(1) Where is the leper station at Darwin'
situated? (2) Are the lepers all aboriginals?
(3 ) llow many white people are there on the
staff? (4)* Who controls the station? (5)
Would a person, intending staying there stand
any chance of infection ?< —5152.
(1) At Leper Point, but it is proposed to
transfer to Channel Island in June. (2)
ADoriginals and lialf-castes. (3) There is,
at present no staff, : but it is proposed to!
appoint a married couple as matron and
curator when the station is transferred. (4)
Chief Medical Officer of the Territory. (5)
Practically no risk. . ,
(1) Can a married woman in Australia
hold property while ' her husband is living?
(2) Can they hold separate estates? If so
does ownership need to be registered ? —
5409.
(1) Yes, the Married Women’s Property
Acts make full provision in that respect.
(2) The estates are held, in the usual way,
no special registration being required.
What is the duty on cigars and
cigarettes imported from Manila? And are
the covering packages weighed in with the
contents ?—5300
On cigarettes, including weight of cards
and mouthpieces contained in inside packages,
the duty is 14s. per pound; on cigars, includ-
ing the weight of bands and ribbons, 18s.
per pound.
(1) Is a ‘Wide ball” or “no ball ’’ in cricket
counted as one of the over? (2) Are they
counted as runs, against the bowler? (3) A
batsman is caught out, and the batsmen
cross once, and have thus changed ends before
the ball is caught. Has the remaining bats-
man to return to his former end, or stay
where lie is and take strike? (4) A bowler
attempts to deliver the ball and the ball
slips out of his hand and rolls about a
quarter way down the pitch and stops. Can
the umpire order the batsman to oome up
the pitch and hit the ball?-— 5412.
/ (1) No- (2) No. (3) Stops where he is.
(.4) No, but the batsman lias the option of
hitting the ball without interference front
the fieldsmen.
How to. fill a barometer with mercury® —
5205.
The tube should be thoroughly cleaned
with nitric acid and heated. -The mercury
should then be admitted by means of a
filler which ' reaches to the bottom' of the
tube, or by means of a vacuum pump. After
filling, the mercury in the tube should be
heated considerably above the boiling-point
of water so that as much air and moisture
as possible is excluded. This latter is most
important,'as the presence of air or moisture
in the tube affects .the accuracy of the
instrument. It’s a job for an expert.
(1) How is an electrical mechanic’s cer-
tificate obtained in N.8.W.? (2) Could a
man wlw sowed an apprenticeship in Q’land
qualify for a N.B.W. certificate? (3). What
are ' the conditions of learning the trade in
N.B.W. f—4926.
(I;) --An electrician’s license may be
obtained in N.S.W. without examination by
the holder of a certificate issued by the
Q’land Electrical Workers’ Board. (2) Yes.
(3) Dept, of Labor and Industry, Sydney,
will supply information'if asked.
(1) What system is in use in boring for
oil in Q’land, percussion or rotary? If the
latter, what is the cutting done with? (2)
What is the prospect of employment there
for an experienced diamond-driller able to
set diamonds in bits? —4998.
(1) Both systems are iffi use. Rotary-
cutting is done in ordinary formation with
fishtail-bit, and in exceptionally hard'Yorma-
tion with a Hughes rotary-bit. (2) There
are several diamond-drills operating at
Mount Isa, but diamond-drills have not so
far been used in boring for oil in Q’land.
(1) What countries are the largest
exporters of coffee to Australia? (2) Is
coffee grown to any extent in Australia or
Pacific islands controlled by Australia? (3)
11 here should a coffee-planting expert apply
for a position? —s3ol.
(1) Netherlands, East Indies, India,
Arabia, British East Africa, Abyssinia, Gua-
temala, British Malaya, South Africa and
Costa Rica. (2) Q’land is the only State in
which coffee-growing has been extensively
tried, but the results have not been satis-
factory. The area under coffee in New
Guinea for year ending .Tune 30 wgs 82
acres; in Papua at the same date the area
totalled 28 acres. Coffee also grows in parts
of Norfolk Island. (3) Try Amalgamated
Coffee Plantations Ltd., Yorkshire House,
Spring-street, Sydney.
What are the qualifications and what is
the method of appointing teachers of dress-
making and needlework in the N.B.W. Dept,
of Education? —s4sB.
Applicants must hold the Diploma in
Home Economics, obtainable after a three
years’ course at the Technical Coll., and must
have been trained for a period of 12 months
at the Teachers’ Coll.. Sydney. Particulars
of the Home Economics Course may be
obtained from Miss Wilson, East Sydney
Technical College.
_ (1) Did a- jockey named Jack Brewer ever
tcin all races on the card at Wagga
(N.S. W.) ? Has the feat been accomplished
by any other rider at Wagga? (2) When
did Titus, ridden by Yeomans, icin the Lady's
Bracelet at Wagga? (3) What were the
placed horses in the famous Wagga Ten-mile
Race in 1868 f—5259.
(1) Complete records of the Murrumbidgee
rurf Club are not available, but those who
ought -to know say fhat Brewer never won
all the races on the card at Wagga. On
August 9, 1902, W. Hart won all races at
Wagga including the hurdle race. (2) Andy
Crain’s Titus won the Bracelet at Wagga on
Nov. 23, 18SS, but was ridden by Tierney,
not Yeomans. (3) Australian 1, Comet 2,
Riverina 3.
Have flying-foxes enemies that prey upon
them?— s463.
The only enemies observed to prey on
flying-foxes are the wedge-tailed eagle and
a species of monitor lizard. It is suspected,
but not proved, that carpet-snakeg account
for a large number; also many of the larger
birds of prey and the' fresh-water crocodile.
It is said that the soil into which the earth
wire of g icirelcss set is run should not be
too dry.. Ifow can such dryness be overcome
in an out-back'district where there is little
rainfall?. —5483.
Dig a hole 6ft. by 3ft., 2ft. deep. Place
a 6ft. by 3ft. galvanised-iron sheet in this
hole, tightly packing charcoal above and
underneath it. Soak. Then erect a couple of
lengths of water piping vertically over the iron
sheet. Water•'should occasionally be poured
down these pipes to keep the earth around
the iron sheet moist.
, (1) What period of training must a girl
desirous of becoming a schoolteacher in
N.B.W. undergo? (2) Educational, qualifi-
cations necessary to enter training college? —
5417.
(1) Twelve months’ course of training, at
the Teachers’ College (Sydney) before re-
ceiving an appointment. (2) A pass at the
entrance examination, approximately up to
Intermediate Certificate standard. Write to
Education Department for pamphlet.
What type of mineral is chiastolite; what
is its use, and where is it found? —5448.
Chiastolites are a curious variety of
andalusite, and are specially characteristic of
clay-slates near a contact with granite.
The elongated prismatic crystals enclose
symmetrically arranged wedges of carbon-
aceous material, and in cross-section show a
black cross on a greyish ground. Cross-
sections of such crystals are polished and
worn as amulets or charms* Crystals of a
size suitable for this purpose are found in
Brittany and the Pyrenees, while still larger
specimens have been found in nor’-eastern
S. Australia.
/ have a 32 -volt house-lighting plant and
wish to employ this power to replace A and
B batteries in my wireless receiver. Can
this be done? —ssoo.
This .voltage is too low to replace B
batteries, which require .a .potential of at
least 90 volts. If accumulators are employed
with the house-lighting plant, portion of them
may be utilised to replace the receiver A
battery, the exact number depending upon the
type of valves used. Send particulars of
plant and receiver.
What food should I give an Alsatian
puppy who is . now four months old, and
how should 1 continue to feed him until fully
grown? —s3B6.
At his present age he requires bone- and
muscle-building food, which may be supplied
by feeding on cooked ' meat, dog biscuit,
Vegetable "and gravy once a. day. The'meat
may consist of shin of beep or sheep’s heads.
Bones are good for young growing dogs, given
mixed with the other food, or the meat and
bones may be given alone for a few days
and one day set apart for the other, food.
The more;economical method is to mix . all
together after the meat has been, cooked.
This diet should rear the pup to adulthood.
How to eradicate white■ ants in Baltic
flooring? There is just enough space under-
neath .for them to get around. —s 339. }
Make a number of ,small openings in the
infested boards and blow in small-quantities
of Paris green with a small insect-powder
blower, without disturbing the ants. Leave
this for a week or 10 days, then remove the
boards, which are badly damaged and treat
the remaining boards and flooring joists with
creosote oil, applied either with a brush or
a spray pump. Timber used to .replace,
damaged portions, should be treated with
creosote, or a resistant timber such as cypress
pine should he used. , .
How to mix an oil-and-cement roof paint?
—5,166. .....
One pint of boiled linseed-oil to 71b.
cement; Mix just sufficient for work each
day, and stir constantly while applying. If
a red shade is desired add red'oxide in oil.
Information Sought.
4965. —A dingo bait must not be touched
with the hands. Manipulate a'leg of mutton
with a pointed stick'or a firmly hitched string.
Cut an incision into ■ the ; centre of the bait,-
and place therein as much strychnine as-cam
be held on a threepenny bit. Then immerse
the bait in a pot of boiling,fat. At evening
let a muzzled dog drag the bait to and fro
across the dingo’s haunt, then bury it beside
the trail and roll the dog several times over
the spot. The dingo will be thereabouts for
scalping in the morning—“ Bung.”
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of Manji'mup (W.A.)? —5324.
Brief Answers.
J.A.P.; N.S.W. Dept, of Agriculture
recommends seeding of oats, 1 to 1J bushels, and
subterranean clover seed 31b. to the acre....
J.G.H.: Cassell’s “German Dictionary’’ (10s. 6d.
posted), and Heath’s “German Grammar” (4s. lid.
posted), Angus and Robertson, Sydney. Weitich’s
German Tales” might be picked up at a second-
hand bookshop. .. .W.P.W.: Caponising is not prac-
tised with drakes, as it would be unprofitable to
feed them until they would be ready for market
after being caponised E.C.T.: (1) It is a job for
an expert. (2) 283 George-street, Sydney....
\A • J.M.: Cannot sue on p.n. if not presented on due
date, when drawer may have been prepared to meet
it; but can sue on original debt R.H.D.: (1) See
no reason why it shouldn’t provided both were good
workers. (2) Vacancies are advertised in the news-
papers and application in reply to same is the only
means of securing such employment. (3) No, pro-
vided you can furnish an income-tax dept, cleaitince.
Apply Customs Dept., Sydney. (4) It can be easily
avoided... .T.C.: Angus and Robertson, Sydney....
A.N.S.: The fees for the degree of Bachelor of
Economics are: Matriculation, £3; lectures, £8
per term (for four years, £96); degree, £3; total,
£102.... L. 8.: The Crown is responsible in cases
where injury is caused through default, or negligence
of its servants. Where injury is caused through the
act of a lessee he is responsible. .. .R.S.: The Curator
of the Sydney Technological Museum will report on
the lavender oil, and supply information concerning
marketing, without charge. Send him a 2oz. sample.
. ...C.C.C.: Pressure at scour valve decreases when
syphon is running, decrease being determined by
diameter and length of pipe and difference between
inlet and outlet levels Gum Sucker: Apply to 0.
C. Roberts, Queen-street, Brisbane, who prepares a
suitable poison and furnishes directions for use
H-I*-: Write Swain and Co., 123 Pitt-street, Sydney.
...T.R.: A letter addressed care of us will reach
him.. . .H.L.P.: Baldwin’s “Dictionary of Philosophy
and Psychology” C. 8.: Rail: Ist" (single), £l3
4s. ; 2nd (single), £8 16s. ; holiday excursion
(return), Ist, £22; 2nd, £l4 3s. Cd.' Extras for
sleeping berths and meals on transcontinental section
are: Ist, £3 125.; 2nd, £2 9s. Steamer: Ist.
£l6 10s.; 2nd, £11; 3rd, £8 N.H.: Dreyfus;
Art Co., Inc., 137 Varick-street, New York; P. F.
Volland , Co., Inc., Joliet, Illinois; Rust Craft Pub-
lishers, Ihc., 1000 Washington-street, Boston, Mass.
.... .F.M.H.: The phrase is derived from the legendary
. feat of Hercules, who, in a single day, cleaned the
.stables ,of Augeas, which contained 3000 oxen and
had not been cleaned for 30 years, by turning the
river Alpheus.’through them.... W.L.8.: At Dec. 31,
1928, the percentage of population of each State
resident" in its capital city was as follows: S.A.,
57; Vic., 56.79; W.A., 48.35; N.S.W., 46.11;
Q’land, 33.66 ; Tas., 26.18 S.C.: The wife and
children remain British subjects unless the Gov.-Gen.
otherwise declares, or unless they elect to make a
declaration of alienage. .. .P.R.: Dept, of Chemistry,
Adelaide, will supply report on treatment of insect
pests in dried fruits on request... ,R.H.: Richardson,
On’ and Co., 250 Pitt-street, Sydney... .T.P.: A
share-farmer in N.S.W. is not deemed to be a worker
employed by the owner of the farm W.R.:
“Official Year Book of the Commonwealth of Aust.”
(price 7s. 6d.), obtainable from Federal Govt.
Printer, Melbourne. .. .A.C.: Try Angus and Robert-
son, Dymock’s or N.S.W. Bookstall Co. —all Sydney.
. ...8.G.E.: Impossible to tell without inspection
or fuller particulars. . . .R.H.D, ; Providing the levels
(supply or discharge) have not been altered, the
fact of the crown of syphon being shifted nearer to
supply • cannot make any difference. Probably the
rearrangement of pipe has loosened some of the
joints, as air is certainly getting in somewhere. . . .
R.J.R.: Get “How to Swim,” by Dudley Hellmrieh
(price 25.), N.S.W. Bookstall Co. S.L.L.: Get in
touch with Len McCarthy, Domain Baths, Sydney....
11. F.: The position is much the same as it has been
at various times during the past 20 years, and the
industry is in a sound position. The apparent over-
production in N.S.W. this season is due to eggs
from other States coming in.... .M.W.: (1) Very
slight prospects. Such positions are only obtainable
by advertising. (2) Some of the Aust. State educa-
tion depts." have an exchange system whereby teachers
can secure temporary posts in schools in England,
Canada and M.L. Particulars from your State Dept.
(3) Depends entirely on your ability and initiative.
. ...1.5.N.: Three months’ residence in Nevada
(U.S.A.) is required before divorce action can be
begun. Causes: Wilful desertion one year, convic-
tion of felony or infamous crime, habitual gross
drunkenness contracted since marriage, impotence
at time of marriage continuing to time of divorce,
extreme cruelty, neglect to provide for one year,
insanity for two years. .. .E.M.: Their ages are:
Shaw 74, Barrie 70, Kipling 65, Wells 64,
Bennett 63, Galsworthy 63 and Chesterton 56.
. ...W.8.: “Stage Lighting,” by C. Harold Ridge
(12s.- 6d.). Chapters on the subject will also be
found-.in, most books on amateur theatricals....
A.C.H.: Adelaide Uni. confers degrees in music.
Registrar will furnish particulars... .E.G.: Death
certificate can be obtained from the General Register
Office, Somerset House, London. Cost, ss. Id
X.J.C.: If you have N.S.W. wood in mind, there
is any amount to be obtained in the Manning River
district, especially for three-jointed fishing-rods.
For surf fishing, water-gum, spotted gum or straight-
grained iroribafk should be used. The cost is prac-
tically nil, except for rod fittings. .. .H.A.G.: No
railway construction lias been commenced from Alice
Springs northwards. The extension from Oodnadatta
(S.A.) to Alice . Springs was completed at the end
of July last... .R.M.N.: Dividends received are sub-
ject ,to tax in the hands of the recipients, but rebates
are made in respect of the tax paid by the co. on
the dividends included in the assessment... .T.W.P.:
See- “Practical .Tanning,” by Rogers; and “Practical
Leather Manufacture,” by Crockett... .E.A.D.: (1)
Papers ' may, be' obtained from Education Dept.,
Sydney. (2) Last examination only. (3) No charge
made.... .P.J.O.D. : You have no claim against the
Commonwealth Govt., and you disclose none against
the .Govt, of .Ireland... .C.G.T.: William Webb was
the first Maorilander to w’in the world’s rowing
championship. He secured the title in 1907 bv
beating Charles Towns on the Parramatta. Dick
Arnst, another -Maorilander, defeated Webb on the
Wanganui the following year. .. .E.A.S.: (1) All
sea snakes are'venomous, but when washed ashore
they' are too helpless to be dangerous unless care-
lessly handled. (2) Their food consists of small
fish,.. .V.D.: A brief article on marine fibre appears
in “The Australian Encyclopaedia” (vol. 2, page
40). ' See also Bulletin No. 14 of the Council for
Scientific and Industrial Research, Melbourne; and
Bulletin No. i, of the Dept, of Chemistry, Adelaide.
.... J.A. : A silo of sawn timber and plain iron is
not recommended by the N.S.W. Dept, of Agriculture.
Send for pamphlet, “Overhead Silos,” issued gratis
by the dept D.D.: Ask N.S.W. Dept, of Agricul-
ture for free leaflet on foot-rot of sheep. Treatment
of cows’ feet will be along the same lines. Also
gfet in touch with the local stock inspector who
will investigate and advise as to the nature of the
disease C.A.M.: Either advertise it as being for
sale or send it to a < reliable jeweller, stating the
lowest price acceptable... .John \\.: (1) \ aries;
you - can. depend" on it for some hours. (2) N 0..,,
(Many others mailed.)


Clhc merits o]
FT
m
TYRES .
are ueror t/uesf/ouerf f
4=^
■\m
■AS* «'=-
rr
k
W
W\
Si
X
-~:r
NWW
\
\\
>
X
<f£
/i
4
d
9
I
Men discuss and dissect
cars wherever motorists
move but never is the
question asked: “ The
tyres are DUNLOP —are
they alright?” The
whole world
knows.
DUNLOP PERDRIAU
RUBBER CO. LTD.
AUSTRALIA ' ALL SPATES
MANUFACTURERS OF
GARDEN HOSE RUBBER HEE' S
SAND SHOES RUBBER BOW S
TENNIS BALLS RUBBER MATTIf G
AND i.V.t«Y DESCRIPTION OF
RUBBER GOODS
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL GARAGE


WHEN LIVING WAS CHEAP
YEARS ago, when living was cheap, many men assured them-
selves for sums that seemed adequate—then! To-day
those sums are quite insufficient. The cost of living has doubled
itself. Amounts that would have kept your dependents years
ago would mean penury to-day. Protect your dependents
to-day as you did years ago. Increase your policy to meet the
new conditions of to-day and to-morrow.
9S PRODUCERS S'CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8., B.Sc. Managing Director: 11. Fell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydnev.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
Agency Co., Ltd. j
DO YOU WANT TO EARN MORE MONEY?
d
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and
enter a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to
send for our prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal
to the demand. Those enrolling during the present month receive a SPECIAL
CONCESSION.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE HIGH COST OF LIVING
is a serious matter and difficult to solve.
BUT
THE HIGH COST OF ASSURANCE
has been solved.
DOMINION FORESTS Bond Assurance
cuts premiums in two and also gives you a planted freehold
Write the Sole Brokers:
PACIFIC UNDERWRITERS,
26 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
SMOKE-OH!
To most of ns iMs unsocial stringency,
NMZffz to -
Garden out m LXllolts be mi § llt clear our
■ X .j.
A o. „ , .
After all, when a man marries he expects
to be done for.
( *
Lives of wrong-’ tins all remind us
We can specialise in crime,
And, departing, leave behind us
Thumb-prints when we’ve done our “time.”
V *
“Mrs. Clarice Curtis, owner/of a house in Clarice
Court, was knocked about by her defaulting tenant,
Clarence C. Crammond.”— Adelaide “Register.”
Sounds like “Piracy on the Seven C’s.”
* *
Though women may not burn the scandal
at both ends, most of them like it kept pretty
warm -
JUST A BIT TO GO ON WITH.
“Does she know you to speak to?”
“No. Only to talk about!”
“It was dined in his ear morning, noon and
night.”— “News.”
And naturally he got fed up.
¥ *
THE INTERLOPER.
I set a trap for my young wife —
The first in our brief married life.
I set it in our very house,
And, sure enough, I caught a mouse.
* *
'“Living in the wilderness, it is three years
since Fish has received a letter.”— “News.”
Somebody ought to drop Fish a line.
“The embezzler, who said that he had spent the
proceeds of his theft, was sentenced to five years’
penal servitude.”
“Time” payment.
DOCTOR'S ORDERS.
“Defendant’s wife said tlie doctor had prescribed
alcohol for her husband, and that his lapse had
been due to an overdose.’’— “Sun.”
“I hear that your husband is ailing.
But why should he ail, Madam, pray?”
“It is all for his good,”
She replied, “that he should,
That’s why ‘he’s been ale-ing each day.”
ft- H-
“ ’Bus Skids in Trying to Avoid Pole.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
Shows you how fashions change. Only
a few years ago Dr. Cook was being called
a liar for claiming to have found it!
ft- ft-
THE COURT GOES SURRY HILLS.
The hostility to slang shown by Judge
Curlewis of N.S.W. is well-grounded. Slang
is liable to spread. As thus
His Honor (to Crown Prosecutor, who has
opened a case without his wig) : “ ’Ere.
break that down, ’Erb. You can’t spruik
’ere without yer thatch.”
C.P.: “Aw, be yer age, boy. It’s too
flamin’ ’ot.”
H.H. ( angrily ) : “Yes?' An’ wotabout me
own lump of lead? I gotta wear mine, an’
you’ll blanky well wear yours, see, or there’ll
be trouble.”
(C.P. puts on wig and turns to witness.)
C.P.: “You Bill Doans?”
Bill : “Betcha.”
C.P.: “Wadidger see ther night of the
box-on ?”
(Bill hesitates.)
H.H.: “Come on, Bill, ole party, be
sociaable. Spit it out, lad, spit it out.”
Bill: “Well, I was sweatin’ in front of
th’ rice an’ sago’s joint waitin’ for me twist
an’ twill to blow along, an’ there’s a bloke
on me hammer who
looked to be kip-
pered gettin’ a
bird’s eye of a
couple cornin’ up
th’ frog an’ toad.
When they gits
into th’ eyes ' right
of the lollie pop th’
sheila stops dead
an’ ses ‘My ’us-
band!’ The codger
wot’s with her
takes a squint at
me an’ ses ‘My
Gawd !’ The jane’s
short and tubby
walks up to them
an’ cracks th’
bloke wots truck-
ing his cheese an’
kisses right on th’
I suppose. Cripes,
it was a beaut,!
The tabby musta
thought she was
due for ’er issue,
so she does a flit.”
H.H. (apprecia-
tively ) : “Go to it,
Bill. You sure are
throwin’ th’ spiel
around!”
Bill: “They’re
into it ’ammer an’
tongs when out
comes th’ Dago an’
pokes ’is bit in an’
one of ther mob
’its ’im in the
mincepie. Gee, it
wassa stunner!”
H.H.: “Well,
that’s that. ( To
accused) : Six
muncefi.”
Accused:
“ ’Struth, yer ’ard,
Dig. I was goin’
on a beer-fest over
the week-end!”
H.H.: “Sorry,
ole sport. I wasn’t
a currant cake to
th’ missin’ lip, so
you r>an kick orf on Monday instead.”
(The Cain't then rose.)
M. J. B.
THE BLOW.
“Marcia, we must be brave.” The man’s
voice was low, tragic.
“George, is there no hope?'’
“None. We can but look to Time —‘the
Great Healer,’ as someone has beautifully
said.”
“George, I will be brave. Tell me....
Tell me what they said.”
The man looked at her pityingly.
“They said, my poor girl, that there are
ten thousand two hundred and sixteen
divorce cases listed for hearing before ours!”
“Banana is the latest in dress shades.”
It should be easy to slip on, anyhow.
* *
NEW VERSION.
“It’s easy to ask a man to laugh at his mis-
fortunes. The capitalists want you to laugh so
that you’ll forget your wrongs. Hang the man who
laughs, I say.” —Domain “Red.”
Oh, Paddy dear, an’ did you hear
The latest Bolshie sin?
They’re hanging men an’ women for
The wearin’ of the grin!
PRELIMINARIES.
“Was it a case of love at first sight?”
“No; a bottle of champagne.”
“Entered racecourse by scaling fence.” — “Sun.”
An entry on the wrong side of the Leger.
HEROINES, OLD (I) AND NEW (II).
I.
He placed a reverent hand on her waist-
long tresses, and then knelt and humbly
kissed the hem of her skirt. She blushed
shyly. “I am unused to love,” she whispered.
“The emotion has made me feel faint. Could
I have a sip of water?”
11.
Bumping her on to his knee, he held her
shingled head with one hand, while with the
other he removed the fag from her carmine
A LITTLE NATURAL COMPRESSION.
DOCTOR: “Do you feel a tightness about the waist after
eating?”
PATIENT: “ Oh-er-only when my sheik comes to
dinner.”
lips. He then kissed her. “Waiter,'’ she
cried, having responded to his caress with
one of her special Greta Garbo shockers.
“Fetchus a coupler double brandies, an’
another packet of gaspers. Spring to it, lad.”
And she reached for her lipstick to repair
the ravages caused by Love.
THE REASON.
He was a bankrupt grocer.
He had no assets, and
He couldn’t make the sugar:
He hadn’t got the sand.
* ¥
LITTLE WILLIE’S HISTORY OF
N.S.W.
Bill Smith, Junior, of Chicago (U.S.A.),
invited on his return from a visit to N.S.W.
to record for the civic Board of Education
his impressions of Australia as gained from
Sydney pictorial and flapper papers, pre-
sented the following:—
N.S.W.’s Chief Female Personage, or
Queen, is Tilly Devine; the Chief Male Per-
sonage, or King, is J. S. Garden.
There are only two kinds of women: fat,
elderly ones in queer hats who attend Meet-
ings, and slim, young ones in bathing outfits.
Men are divided into those who golf and
those who take part in marches to Parlia-
ment House.
A remarkable phenomenon is the exquisite
beauty of N.S.W.’s female shoplifters, divorce
respondents, drug addicts, victims of assaults
and subjects of sob-stories.
Public interest is confined to motor
smashes, beach girls, more beach girls, views
of the Harbor bridge, beach girls again, swim-
ming girls, diving girls, girls
in beach pyjamas, girls more
or less naked, and beach
girls.
The only troops the
country has are called Life-
savers and do the goose-
step on beaches in uniforms
of tan.
Religious observance
appears to be confined to
faith in the innocence of
convicted persons and the
good work of trying to secure
the release of all murderers,
especially female ones, all
of whom are beautiful.
Chief industries are news-
paper insurance benefits and
Casket investment, with a
little coal at Rothbury.
They have a Chief Citizen
to receive visiting profes-
sional sportsmen and theatri-
cals.
There are numerous
churches, the doorways of
which are used for framing
wedding groups in photo-
graphs.
Cocaine is the national stimulant; speed-
ing from P.D. cars through congested streets
the favorite sport.
On Sundays public interest in affairs
slackens, and is confined wholly to beach
girls.
The Hippogryph.
FOOTING THE BILL
He slammed his desk; with jaded brain
awhirl _
He craved diversion from the daily mill.
He longed to dine and dance with some
nice girl,
And, casting around for one to fill the bill,
Discovered her and danced the hours away,
Forgetting earthly worries. Not until, ’
On wings too sivift, the time arrived to pay
Did he find out how well she’d filled the
Ull!
M. G.


-V.
o**
St*
f&°S
*-> oMlf
9
*
v/M
*
ST(P
*' H
fir
ml
jpf
A o
M
NS
if'flllPM
A
m i
l.
!
iiiii!iiiiiii*'ii>iiii{t;>
iiiiiiiiiiiiiitjiiu*
!tlllllllllll"lll!*ll
aXSIMm
\ HDIODSQIO ,
139V1
fm)
\
T - 1 HIS RENOWNED
| BRAND OF OLD
SCOTCH WHISKY IS
NOW OBTAINABLE IN
SCREW-CAP BOTTLES,
WHICH HAVE THE
FOLLOWING ADVANTAGES:
1. Corkscrew unnecessary,
2. Simplest fitment for
opening and closing.
3. Leakage impossible.
4. Faulty corks eliminated.
The
NEW SCREW CAP
SIMPLE,
SAFE &
SECURE.
'quality' ■'BRISI& BOTTLED
UNDER,THE SUPERVISION.
CUSTOMS'
(PATOK}
VICTORIANS. Preserve Your Freedom and Vote NO


MARY ANN STREET, ULTIMO
(’Phone: M 4247).
Forster's Bedsteads Ltd.
manufactured the first
Hospital Bedstead in
Australia, and are still
manufacturing the finest
Hospital Bedsteads used
throughout the Common-
wealth.
9
Q
This Mobile Bedstead is the hnest hospital bedstead made.
The mobile attachment at foot is simply manipulated without
jolting the patient. The large ball-bearing rubber-tyred castors
ensure smooth wheeling. Fitted with Hercules Diamond Wire.
HOSPITAL DRESSING TROLLEY.
Large, easy-running 4in. Castors, ball-
bearing, nickel rail round ends and back of
top. Size of top. 25in. x 1 Bin. Height from
floor, 38in.
Manufacturers of all kinds of Metallic Beds for the
Household, Hospitals, Ships, Institutions, or for any
special purpose.
Established 1859.
Still leaders of the trade with ranges of new designs.
THE LARGEST PLANT OF ITS KIND IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
Manufacturers also of Wood Beds, Ice Chests, Mattresses, Chairs, also Steel Shelving, Lockers and Cupboards.
CHRONIC BACKACHE
Rheumatism, Lumbago
BE WARNED IN TIME
♦
NATURE IS TELLING YOU TO TAKE THIS SOUND ADVICE
Sudden dizziness, head-swimming, sight blurred, chronic
backache, a weak, helpless feeling, almost ready to faint
—be warned! Nature is telling you in unmistakable
terms of deep-seated Kidney Trouble.
It is no use trying to ward off these attacks with heart-
exciting drugs which may “buck you up” for an hour
only to leave you weaker than before. You cannot
neglect these symptoms unless you wish to wait for total
health break-down.
Do you know there are a host of women ready and
willing to tell you they ended all the dread symptoms of
Kidney Trouble in an inexpensive, quick manner, simply
by taking a short course of De Witt’s Pills?
The kidneys, in health, act as the great cleansing and
purifying centre for every drop of the body’s blood
supply. They should filter and pass out from the system
any excess of uric acid. When they
fail in their duty, your health fails
and pain and suffering result.
That is why the only pos-
sible remedy for
Rheumatism,
<<"
-z-
-<r
c
K
-3
<~J-
W
gife
<?>
It
a
s$
ra
£**
S&
ATTI^
'Ovli'
r<*
C 3* c
ill
r<s
$
Met
ilrsl
R:
r»
JU
pe
\
Sciatica, Lumbago, or Gout must act directly on the
kidneys, and that is why we state clearly and definitely
that the world-famous De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills
are guaranteed to do this, purifying the blood, ridding it
entirely of pain-giving poisons, and restoring splendid
vigor and vitality.
Why not let De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills start
you on the road to health to-day? Go to your chemist
and get a 3/6, or the larger, more economical size, 6/6,
supply. Take them regularly. You will be amazed how
quickly your health will improve. Your chemist can tell
you all about the prescription from which “De Witt’s”
are made. It is clearly printed on the box. Further-
more, he sells this remedy under distinct guarantee that
in 24 hours you will see and know the pills have started
their health-restoring action. If not, your money is
refunded. With this guarantee surely you will not stay
crippled with ill-health longer? Let De Witt’s bring you,
as they have brought thousands of others, strength, health
and happiness.
READ THIS LETTER—JUST ONE OF THOUSANDS
Mrs. E. Deacon, 48 Locksley Avenue, Merrylands, Sydney, says:
“For nine months I suffered with had backache. It was just as if
a fork had been dug in my back. I could not sleep with the pain. As
for doing my cleaning, when I got down on my knees I could hardly
get up. The pain attacked me everywhere. No one knows what I
went through with my Kidneys. I started taking De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills. They have done me the world of good. I get
up better, fresher at five in the morning without trouble or pain.
I blame myself for not taking ‘De Witt’s’ before.”
KIDNEY
AND
BLADDER
PILLS
m
1
3
3si
&//✓/
o
%
''TVA
h\
**//


IT ISN’T A
MAGNAVOX
IT ISN’T A
L DYNAMIC
rWitfc • be* w Kodak)
THE ORIGINAL DYNAMIC SPEAKER
Australia’s Fastest Selling Speaker A Leader in All States
Dynamic Unit A.C. Model
£7/15/-
Dynamic Unit D.C. Model
£5/15/-
“Your Radio pleasure
depends on the Speaker”
Demonstration will Convince You.
Obtainable All Radio Dealers
Refrigeration
Without Ice
CITY COMFORTS IN THE COUNTRY
“THE ECONOMY REFRIGERATOR’
“It saves its cost in food not lost.”
Packed and delivered rail or boat, Sydney.
Everything complete; Price, £37.
-iafe, sure and automatic refrigeratmi
by Primus Stove.
No working parts to lose.
Costs lid. per day to run.
Vou will marvel at the clever idea 01
Refrigeration by means of heat instead
of Ice. Where Ice is unprocurabb
it is worth its weight in gold
To operate:—
Once a day —take the Freezing Unit
out of the Ice Chest and stand it on
the Primus Stove, and go about your
usual duties. In a short time the
whistle will blow, indicating that the
temperature is right for the Freezer
to be put back in the Ice Chest.
It is simplicity itself. There is nothing
to get out of order, and it will last a
lifetime.
The Ice Chest Cabinet is 24in. long,
18in. wide and 19in. deep, with
porcelain-enamel interior; comprises
Freezing Unit, Ice Tray, two Slielw
and Primus Stove.
Write for pamphlet concerning “ECONOMY REFRIGERATOR,
“Keeps food nice without the Ice.”
Manufacturers’ Representatives:
F. R. STRANGE, LIMITED,
3 Hamilton Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8W6129.
which
if any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
WHEN REPLYI Mi.
QUOTE THIS PAPER.
Building a Home?
Home Builders will welcome the advent of the
New Austral Weightless Window
Strong, Compact, Easily Applied, Guaranteed.
Cuts out weights and cords. Stays put in any
position; unlike casements; Sashes slide up and
down, allowing free use of fly-screens on the
outside. Device is rust-proof, and protected from
the weather. Sample set for top and bottom sash
sent postage paid for 5/-
AUSTRAL WINDOW CO.
10 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Poverty
Point
“C.B.”: Bets are being made as to the
probable run of “The Maid of the Moun-
tains” at Melbourne Royal. One man high
up in the theatrical game gives it four weeks
and another three months. When it opened
at Daly’s, London, previous to the Austra-
lian premiere in 1921, it established a world’s
record of 1352 days.
“Spokeshave”: Josie Melville, lately
reported to be unlikely to appear, has suffi-
ciently recovered from her sickness for the
Firm .to talk of a revival of some of her
star roles. She will be seen in “Sally” to
start with, and Hobart is to be honored with
the first glimpse.
“Craiser” : Melbourne Rep. Society, which
was badly in need of it, has caught some of
the backwash in the direction of legit. The
five nights of “R.U.R.” constituted a record
in receipts.
“L.H.P.”: The screening of “Disraeli”
recalls that the literary statesman once wrote
a play himself. His “Alarcos” was published
in. 1839, but never saw the footlights till
nearly 30 years later, when the American
actress Agnes Cameron produced it at
Astley’s. Charles Verner, an actor later in
Australia, was Alarcos, and the manageress
played the heroine. The piece was founded
on an old Spanish legend, and was written
in \ blank verse. It was a very passable
tragedy, and the part of Alarcos was quite
a showy one. William Hoskins, who played
it in Maoriland in the ’seventies, made the
most of his chances.
“Hops and Scotch” : Some years ago, when
Wallace Brownlow was playing the part in
“The Belle of New York” now taken at
Sydney Majesty’s by Sid Burchall, he
received a letter from a Melbourne temper-
ance _ enthusiast asking him to interpolate
certain words into the script which would
“push home the moral of leading an abstemi-
ous life.” Brownlow replied: “Dear Sir,
—Your suggestion received. I would have to
be very drunk to 1 carry out your wishes.”
“Stephen Cink” : The audience was sparse,
but it made up for that by being rowdy.
.Unable to bear the disturbance longer, the
smallest mummer of the struggling company
stepped out of his stage character and faced
his tormentors, “Better be quiet, you blokes,”
he said pugnaciously. “Remember there’s
more of us up here than you’ve got down
there!”
“Spokeshave”: A record for number of
recitals will be put up by Kubelik in his
forthcoming tour. He has promised the
Taits to unsheath his bow in Australia and
M.L. no less than 150 times.
“C.M.”: The orchestral concerts in the
Melbourne Botanical Gardens, for which Syd-
ney Myer has put up the cash, are steadily
gaining in popularity. On the last occasion
the crowd was estimated at 25,000, the seat-
ing accommodation on the lawns wasn’t big
enough, and the overflow audience swamped
Director Rae’s chrysanthemum beds. For
the next fixture these are to be roped off.
“Spokeshave”: Old Bland Holt and his
charming lady are still flourishing at Sor-
rento, the cradle of Victoria. They live in
a large house overlooking the heads, and
acting folk are frequent visitors. Periodically
they entertain old people from the Old
Colonists’ Home, and as most of them are
retired actors the flood of reminiscence
sounds like a page out of Poverty Point.
“C. Ma”: New methods of publicity have
been adopted by Hoyt’s De Luxe, in Mel-
bourne, where competition between the too-
numerous movie seraglios is fierce. In 50
words viewers of “They Had to See Paris”
are asked to give the best reason why Will
Rogers had to. The winner gets a free
first-class return trip to Paris, a solid leather
travelling-case from Leviathan Stores, a
camera from Kodak, a Gibsonia travelling-
rug, and a deckchair and steamer sit-up from
French and McNeill. To cap all, Preston
Motors will drive him to the scene of presen-
tation in a Buick Marquette. The com-
petition should be a gift to any journalist
worth his salt. Inky Wayfarer Frank Rus-
sell, G. F. Griffith and the Gaud Mayor
judge.
“Jobber” : Will nobody start a Society for
the Suppression of Endurance Fiends? In
the town where I earn a crust one of these
pests was driven to what was evidently
expected to be the scene of his triumphs in
a motor-lorry, with some misguided sheila
for a partner and a band in attendance. The
goat and the girl “danced” off the lorry, up
the steps of the local jazz joint, and then
started in earnest. It was announced by a
stentorian spruiker that he was out to break
the world’s record for marathon dancing—
189 hours, or something to that effect. The
stupidity went on for nearly a week, when
it was suddenly announced that his nibs had
retired after “dancing” for 150 hours, and
the town gave a loud sigh of relief.
“Bulletin” Story Prize-winners.
The judges in The Bulletin Story Com-
petition this year had 275 entries to con-
sider ; and in the first sieving the number
was reduced to 40. Next nine were left in ;
and then the job of placing them in order
was undertaken. Only two were nominated
for first place; and “The Passage” was
chosen unanimously after a little discussion.
When, later, the sealed envelopes were
opened, “The Passage” was found to be
the work of Vance Palmer. They confessed
that in their separate and private minds they
had not connected him with it —perhaps be-
cause the story is all about a fishing village
and chiefly about the work of fishermen, and
Vance Palmer has put his name mostly to
out-back stories. On the other hand, there
are exceedingly few people m Australia cap-
able of such exquisite writing as “The Pas-
sage” holds; and Vance Palmer is one of
them. Not only is he a very experienced
workman; he is a most painstaking one.
When The Bulletin announced its inten-
tion of giving £IBOO in prizes spread over
three years, he decided that it was worth
while putting aside most of his fugitive work.
In the first competition he won the third
prize with “Men Are Human,” to be pub-
lished next month in London and New York.
To “The Passage” he devoted the greater
part of 18 months.
Born in
Queensland in
1885, of an
A u s t r aliau
father and an
Irish mother,
Vance Palmer
was educated
a t Ipswich
Grammar
School, went
to London in
1906 to do
literary work
(he already
felt the urge),
and after a
couple of
years there
travelled i n
F i n 1 a n d,
Siberia and
the East, col-
lecting color
and material.
After returning home he was by turns
teacher, tutor and station book-keeper. Then
London and its publishers called again, and
he went back in 1910, and for five years
worked for English and American magazines.
The war came, and he returned to Australia
and enlisted. Afterwards he settled down to
litefary work in Australia, living chiefly
in Queensland. His pen has a wide sweep:
besides his novels he has published volumes
of verse, of plays and of short stories. Nettie
Palmer, well known on the Red Page, is'his
wife. They are living in Melbourne.
Mrs. Kay
Glasson Tay-
-1 o r was
known to the
judges only as
“Toe H”; and
she has the
honor, not
only of being
awarded
second prize
(£250), but
of having a
second entry
included
among the
h a 1 f - d o zen
highly com-
mended. This
is the only
time in the
course of
these competi-
tions anything
of the sort has
occurred. From internal evidence “Toe ll’
seems to have been suspected of being one
of the cultured Bush Brotherhood.
The Bush Brother turned out to be a
woman, born in Queensland, who hasn’t the
least compunction about disclosing her age:
she is 37. Educated in Sydney, she was at
the medical school of the Uni. for four years.
Then the usual man intruded, and Miss
Glasson, as she then was, was married in
Queensland in 1916. The family is addicted
to horses and poetry. Her father was
poet laureate of Newington College in his
day. (He was also champion heavyweight
boxer, of .which the family seems to be
prouder than of the other thing.) Mrs.
Taylor herself has done as much writing as
the care of a family would allow, and, as
she says, “Messrs. Angus and Robertson
courageously produced my ‘Ginger for Pluck’
last spring.” Her hobby is book-collecting;
next to that the breeding of ponies. Her
father, Mr. W. Glasson, of Hazelwood (Q.),
generally has a few horses in his stables,
and his colors are well known on northern
courses; from him —a good Cornishman, by
the way—she has inherited almost a passion
for horses.
When “Wards of the Outer March” is
published it will bear the name of “Daniel
Hamline.” Daniel Hamline was a great-
great-grandfather, a naval captain of the
eighteenth century, whose adventurous life
filled his Queensland descendant’s childish
mind with admiration.
J. J. Hardie, who wins the third prize
with his robust “Cattle Camp,” captured
The Bulletin when he was called to the
office after the sealed envelopes were opened.
Though born in Troon, Scotland, 36 years
ago, he is the
finest type of
Australian. He
came to this
country first'
as a lad 19
years ago; and
he has seen
more of it than
most of us.
He was in the
Northern Ter-
ri t o r y with
attle in 1914;
in October of
that year he
heard t h e r e
was a war on,
and witli a
mate rode a
couple of hun-
dred miles to
enlist. They
wouldn’t take
him * sn n-Ff-or
mm; so, aiter
having another shot at it, he went to
Canada, joined up there, served in the Tanks
among other things, then joined the Indian
Cavalry, and after the war was sent to
the North-West Frontier—he had got his
commission by this time. He had been
brought up to wool and stock; but on his
return to Australia he decided to grow
bananas on the Tweed River. Bunchy-ton
beat him, and he returned to Sydney. “Cattle
Camp” is his first book.


Banking. Public Companies, etc,
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. .• • • 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
lU'Ttilr.
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 985,000
£2,235,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,485,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
W\t
d
d
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
3C Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
Experimenting!
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary experiments?
Cut waste and
advertise with a
“Result Bringer,”
“The
Telegraph ”
({Brisbane)
Has proved itself over
58 years a good “Result
Bringer” for all adver-
tisers.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co,, Ltd,
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Representative:
N. L. ROBERTS,
Country Press Co-op. Co. of Aust., Ltd.,
Barrack Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
auote you price for the original.
Shipping, et*j.
WINTER IN SUMMER SEAS
UNION CO. Excursions to South Sea Isles
offer a triple choice to Winter Holidayers.
Sydney Auckland Suva Honolulu
Return (£75 First Saloon; £55 Second).
Auckland Fiji Tonga Samoa and
back; or Sydney Noumea Suva.
Further particulars and fares from —•
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney.; 59 William Street, Melbourne.
CANADIAN -AUSTRALASIAN
Excursions to Hawaii
s
«
%e
Gill 0/the Solomons
Full of charm and interest the Solomon
Islands are only 7 days' steaming north-
east of Sydney.
To those in search of .an /deal Sec T
Trip the opportunity should be now
availed of for a Holiday Cruise among
these Wonderful Coral Islands.
The S.S. “MATARAM” sails from Sydney
30th April and 11th June, visiting more
than a score of Picturesque Island Ports.
Round Trip 4i Weeks.
Fare £4l Return.
Write for Booklet No. 52/S to
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD.
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
ď
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS' SEPTEMBER 30, 1929, £90,806,297.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
588 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Dills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - 4,200,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL " - - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,678,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN ( Chairman) ;
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND; Major-General
the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and ail other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc,
Huddart ParkerLlE
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
: Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUdDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
BRITAIN
MAKE YOUR TOUR
COMPLETE.
The Highways of Romance and the
Historical Cathedral Cities are all
awaiting you. The route is by the
LN E R
Up to Scotland by the
FLYING SCOTSMAN
84- hours’ non-stop run.
London to Edinburgh
Restaurant, Hairdressing Saloon,
Bookstall on the train.
Tour by the LONDON & NORTH-
EASTERN RAILWAY for
LUXURY,
SPEED,
COMFORT
Apply for full particulars to
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and
Branches.
Agents throughout Australasia.
AFRIENDLY
M GREETING
to travellers from
Australia and
New ZEALAND'
r .. awaits at
The Clift
Hotel in San
Francisco,the
gateway to
America.The
Clift is a
modern American hotel, with
540 rooms, each with bath. Every
room is equipped with radio re-
ception apparatus.
The Clift is close to the things
San Francisco visitors care to do
most—near the theatre and shop-
ping districts, and the points of
scenic interest.
Rates: single, from $3 (about X2S.) up-
C II
CW3
llli J IL
Nil
$ m
ss
>), <jVj
WVi
V
ward; double, from
#5 (about i guinea)
upward.
Full refund on wire*
less request for ac-
commodations from
your steamer.
THE
CLIFT
HOTEL
SAN FRANCISCO
CALIFORNIA.U.S. A.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CEUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISEAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAE ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEE CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Leading
Advertising Agencies.


é
Sydney Address:
Box 481 AA, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Melbourne Address:
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
PROVED !
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CIGARS
J1L f%JP. JTjik Mk*m?
kwoii^
At an gaod hotels
and tobacconists HJf
Special box prices on request
Wholesale Distributors
«^5 RAIC & AITKEN
6S4 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
1
§ How
&
bad LEG
1
s
„ BEGIN* _
L^jrT* -
V ] )
u
l^:
'
v" 'M
x Yf. \
YOU may remember the first sore*
ness and pain—or recall some
simple wound or bruise, or scratch-
ing the itchy skin until it bled. Or,
maybe there’s an actual breakdown
of the fleshy tissues.
Zam-Buk is a wonderful healer
for bad legs of all kinds. It stops
the hot pain and irritation and
quickly draws out all pus and disease.
Helping Nature build-up the new
tissue-cells Zam-Buk soon makes
weak and crippled limbs strong
and healthy again.
Keep Zam-Buk always handy for cuts,
burns, scalds, eczema, ulcers, acne,
poisoned wounds, ringworm, sprains,
scalp disease, piles, etc. 1/6 & 3/6 box.
d
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE -.w •• .. .. 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to Tcnova .
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Chelsus”: The Saturday morning habitues
of Melbourne’s Victoria Market are not
fussy. “’Ere you are, lady,” I heard the
softgoods man next to the flower-stall shout,
“a pair of bloomers and a bunch of jonquils
all for two bob.” He raised a laugh, not a
blush.
* * * *
“H.S.”: One of the most highly protected
industries in Australia is the making of
petrol bowsers. Three new ones that have
been installed in Launceston recently are
fastened with Yale locks made in Germany.
No one objects to the pumpmakers receiving
protection, but they might, in return, pat-
ronise Australian lockmakers.
* * * *
“Strathleven”: Last month the British
Association of Refrigeration celebrated the
50th anniversary of the first arrival of frozen
meat at the London docks. The consignment
consisted of 40 tons of mutton and lamb
from Sydney. A hindquarter of lamb was
reserved for Queen Victoria’s table, and the
Prince of Wales of the period was presented
with a whole sheep.
* % * jjj
“Sambo”: Maoriland woollen-mills are
turning out excellent “trim” for lining
sedan motor-cars. It takes three pounds of
raw wool to produce one yard of trim. Last
year 21,000 cars were sold, 17,000 of them
closed ones, which require approximately 11
yards of upholstery apiece. H'ad all these
cars been lined with our own woollen
materials £165,000 would have been kept
in the country. The 12 mills which are
running employ 2500 persons.
* * * *
“Chev”: Another reflection on Australian
enterprise arrived in Maoriland when the
Norwegian factory-ship Kosmos landed
116,000 barrels of whale-oil valued at
£570,000 —a record for the world. It is esti-
mated that the Scandinavian country extracts
£6,000,000-worth of oil annually from the
Antarctic, and so satisfied is she that her
monopoly will never be challenged that the
Government has passed restrictions aimed at
preventing the too-sudden extermination of
the whale. As at present conducted the industry
is expected to kill the goose within 30 years.
* * * *
“Vet”: The Dean of the Veterinarian
Faculty at Sydney Uni. has been drawing
attention to the horse-doctor’s job as one
of the very few callings that are far from over-
crowded these days. The modern vet. often
has a string of qualifications that would have
staggered his predecessor of 50 years ago,
and though Macquarie-street may deplore ,the
scarcity of well-to-do patients, there are still
cows, sheep and horses in the country whose
owners can pay well for the medical attend-
ance they need.
* * * *
“Hamilton”: Man seems to speak the
truth about land sales and values with
extreme difficulty. The other day a story
was printed in Sydney and copied in Bris-
bane that “a certain lady living in Queens-
land” had refused £30,000 for a tiny shop
site having a frontage of 19ft. to Market-
street ' and a depth of 'l9ft. The story went
on to relate that the scrap of Sydney soil
had been in the lady’s family well over 50
years, her grandfather holding it first. Which
"was true: all that was wrong was that no
offer for the land had come to the lady for
at least two years, and never has anything
like £30,000 been seriously mentioned.
* * * *
“Blucher”: Manifold are the modern
devices for making the casual customer a
permanent one. I purchased a pair of shoes
in a Sydney shop and acquired, along with
the receipt, a book of 10 tickets, each of
which negotiates a “shine” at the said
emporium. The price of this amenity is
threepence, so it amounts to throwing lialf-
a crown’s worth of service back at you, unless
you have the habit of being your own boot-
black. Anyhow, it’s an ingenious way of
creating some sort of tie between you and
the bootery.
* * * *
“Tops” : The intention of an Australian co.
to grow sugar in Papua (B. 5/3/’3O) has
quickly been imitated by a section of Aus-
tralian woolgrowers, who are considering
establishing cloth factories in China to be
fed with the raw material from this country.
The demand for woollen clothing is growing
fast in the Flowery Land, and it is hoped
that a brisk market and cheap labor will
help Australian growers to increased sales
and prices. The Celestial is rapidly cutting
into cotton spinning and weaving, and the
wool enterprise looks promising, always pro-
vided the prospectus provides liberally for
squeeze and cumshaw. without which no
business flourishes in China.
* * * *
“Tapper”: If all goes as expected, the first
blast furnace to blow in at the Port Kembla
(N.SAV.) works of the Australian Iron
and Steel Co. will be the largest in the
Empire, and four others of the same calibre
are to follow it. The blooming mill in which
the great billets are rolled will also be in
a class by itself, and when in full swing the
plant is expected to turn out a million tons
of steel per annum.
* * * *
"Bert the Carpenter”: I was talking to
a second-hand dealer, when an Italian burst
into the shop and excitedly demanded why
the proprietor was leaving an oil-painting in
the window in the full glare of the sun.
Having been informed that it was “So’s
blokes like you will see it,” he asked to
handle the picture. Finding no artist’s name
visible lie suggested taking it out of the
trame, which process revealed the name
\Varren Clarke.” “What do you want, eh?”
demanded the Italian. “An offer.” “Give
you 10 pounds.” “No blooming fear.” “Well,
wiiat you want?” “It’s not going out of this
shop under 30 quid.” After a lot of argument
the customer agreed, paid a deposit, and
liurned off to get the rest' of the money.
xae dealer gave me an illuminating wink.
He got so. excited,” he explained, “that I
Knew the picture must be worth a fair bit.
Utherwise he could have got it for a quid.”
Alter a pause he added, “Still, I needn’t
growl i only gave two bob for it!” The
buyer had nothing to growl about, either, for
painting, a 16in. x 12in. land-
Sl /^ e I( - e, Vified as a scene in Epping
orest (Eng.), to a doctor for 75 guineas.


ê
KILL THIS MAN!
’J’HERE’S a devil inside of you. He’s trying to kill
you. Look out for him! He tells you not to work
so hard. What’s the use? The boss only piles more
work on you. He tells you not to bother with your
body. I)o you recognise him ? Of course, you do. He's
in us all. He’s a murderer of ambition. He’s a liar
and a fool. KILL HIM! If you don’t he will kill you !
SAVED!
Thank your lucky, stars you have another man
inside of you. He’s- the human dynamo. He
fills you full of kick and ambition. He keeps you
alive—on fire. ,He urges you on in your daily
tasks. He makes you strive for bigger and better
things to do. .He makes you crave for. life, and
strength. He.teaches you that the weak fall by the
wayside, but the STRONG SUCCEED. He shows
you that exercise builds live tissue —live tissue
is; muscle —muscle means strength—strength is
power. Power brings success! That’s what you
want, and, gosh darn your old hide, you’re going
to. get it.
WHICH MAN WILL IT BE?
It’s up to your Set your own future. You want
to be the Human Dynamo? Fine! Well, let’s
get busy. That’s where I come in. That’s my
job. 'Here’s what- I’ll do for you.-
In just 30 days I’ll increase your arm one full
inch with real, live, animated muscle. Yes, ( and
I’ll add two .inches to your chest in'the- same
time. Pretty good, eh? That’s nothing. Now
come the works. I’ll build up .your shoulders.
I’ll deepen your’chest." I’ll strengthen your whole
body. I’ll, give you arms and legs like pillars. I’ll
literally pack muscle up your stomach and down' your
back. Meanwhile I’ll work on those inner muscles
surrounding your vital organs. You’ll feel the thrill
of life shooting up your old backbone and throughout
your entire system. You’ll ■ feel so full of life you’ll
shout to the world, “I’m a man, and I can prove it.”
Sounds good, what? But, listen! That isn't all. I’m
not just promising these things. I guarantee them!
It’s a sure bet.
BE
A
..
B
R
I
T
O
N
I
ë
RIP THIS OUT AND MAIL NOW!
IT
IS
■ F
R
E
E
Alfred J. Briton, Dept. H, 107 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Please send me, absolutely FREE and
without any obligation on my part whatsoever, a. copy
of your latest book, “The Secrets of Muscular Strength
—And How to Acquire It.” I enclose 6d. in Stamps
for postage.
NAME
FULL ADDRESS
STATE
(Please Write or Print Very Plainly.)
ē
m
it
mk
m
■
35S5S
WAS
A Battery of 3 “Ideal” Boilers
As supplied to
G. J. Cole’s New Store
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
For Hot-water Service , Steam Cooking and Warming.
95 per cent, of the big buildings of Melbourne, Sydney and other Australian
cities with heating installations have “Ideal” Heating Appliances installed.
“Ideal” Boilers and “Ideal” Classic Radiators are the one solution of the
problem of warming Hotels, Guest-houses, Offices and Public Buildings.
The “Ideal” Classic Radiator has received the universal approval of archi-
tects, It possesses many practical features which make it pre-eminently
the Radiator for every situation.
There are also “Ideal” Installations of varying capacities for Ordinary
Households—a size for every Class of Home which can be supplied for Hot-
water Service and Warming or for Hot-water Service only. Thousands
of Families are enjoying the advantages of having an "Ideal” Hot-water
Service in the Home. It is very popular throughout the world.
“Ideal” Installations are most reliable, healthful, labor-saving and safe, and
far more economical in upkeep than the best of Gas or Electric Appliances.
Full Particulars and Expert Advice Free.
391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne, C. 1.
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ommmiiiitnii
JOHN
&S0N
muimuiiumi;?
IllUltlllltllltl
:
pT*'
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
The World's largest Commercial Forestry Co.
Subscribed Share Capital £240,619
Bonds Subscribed exceed £3,400,000
Funds lodged with Trustees exceed £450,000
(Including over £250,000 invested in Australian Government Securities.)
Area planted Approx. 120,000 acres
Bankers Bank of New Zealand and their Agents
Head Office Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney
Sole Brokers Smith Wylie & Co., Ltd.
Branches: Throughout Australia, New Zealand and the Federated Malay States. London, Bombay,
Java, Hong KOng and Shanghai.
..LL-.U- A k. TTTJgISEB. I S' » MTDCT
g, -f& "% Tf H E M.AJI t |r<
S PPWCTUAii^
k:
*
/
«
d
With a "CYMA” watch punctuality
is never an effort— it becomes a habit
—because a "CYMA” is on time all
the time.
These days when “time is life" was
never more applicable to every-day
affairs, men and women expect
punctuality in both business and
social life.
A "CYMA” watch is a necessity. It imparts to
its wearer that self-confidence of one who is
always on time—and more than that, a
"CYMA” watch is guaranteed by its designers
as a timepiece which master-makers look upon
as the criterion of the horological art. Also, all
"CYMA” parts are interchangeable, and re-
pairs in case of accident can be effected with
the minimum of delay.
As a gift or as a piece of personal jewellery,
a "CYMA” is always correct.
At all good Jewellers,
QVorlcLQamouS
CYMA
WATCHES
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.


Firearms sent C.O.D.
HI-POWER RIFLES will make the
KANGA-ROO THE DAY.
Savage 22 Hi-power Rifles, £lO/15/-, £ll/15/-
and £l3.
Savage 250/3000 Hi-power Rifles, £ll/15/-
and £l3.
Mauser for British 303 Cartridges, £l4/10/-
Mauser 6.5 M/M and 250/3000 Hi-power
Rifles, £l5; with Zeiss Telescope, £24.
Mannlieher-Schonnauer 6.7 M/M Hi-power
Rifles, £lB/10/- and £2O ; with Telescope*
£3O.
B.S.A. 303 Hi-power Rifles, £ll/15/. and
£l4/10/-
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
’Phone, MA3540.
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
1438 Elizabeth Street (near Market
Street), Sydney.
A great drink this
RESCH’S D.A.
The famous DINNER ALE
7hp centre of Queens/anc/s
'cf/'sfingutshec/ Soc/o/ Life.
Iwfel
BRISBANE
ď
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Jack Toohey, the Sydney jockey, rode five
winners in one afternoon at Canterbury Park
a few years ago. At Moorefield on Saturday
Ted Bartle rode six winners and a second;
and they were his only mounts. Bartle
has now 51 firsts, 371 seconds and 25 thirds
to his credit this season, with a full four
months to go. If he stood down for the
four months he would probably wind up with
a better record than any of his competitors—
McCarten is the nearest to him with 24J
wins. Having made turf history in this
fashion he rushed away from Moorefield to
St. Vincent’s Hospital to see a younger
brother, also a jockey, who had been thrown
on the track that morning and kicked on the
head. H'e found his brother out of danger.
Gliemosh and Troilus, who were on Bartle’s
little list, had been ridden to victory by him
on the same course the previous Saturday,
Chemosh had 9st. 81b. in the first division
of the Two-year-old Handicap, but that didn’t
prevent backers making, him a 5-to-4 favorite,
and he looked to be going at half-pace in
front of a well-whipped field over the last
furlong. He is a brown gelding by Moabite —
Blue Dome and lias great pace for a few
furlongs; whether he is anything more than
a sprinter remains to be seen. Troilus (3
to 1) carried 9st. —261 b. more than his Don-
caster weight—and gave several horses a start
and a good beating in the straight, just as
he had done a week before, the distance —
a mile —being the same. Myles-la-Coplen,
a three-year-old gelded brother to Paddi Eve,
was second, and Potent third. Troilus is
now greatly in request for the Doncaster.
Bartle rode a well-judged race on Clear
Flight (2 to 1), owned by Samuel Hordern,
in the first division of the Flying Handicap ;
the little-thought-of Lord Romeo made the
finish interesting. The leading jockey's
mount in the second division was little Ila
Tait, but the task of giving 31b. to Sir
Clirystopher (6 to 4), the grey from New-
castle, proved beyond her.
Niglitmarch was saddled up for the
Hawkesbury Autumn Handicap, and backers
hastened to take evens, finally laying a shade
of odds on. It was a foolish proceeding, for
the Epsom and Melbourne Cup winner had
lOst. 71b. and was palpably in need of a few
gallops. Moreover, Moorefield; with its hill
and sharp turns, is not a course to suit him.
He was fairly well up all the way, but never
looked like catching Cavedweller (7 to 1),
who led from start to finish and ended up
with an advantage of six lengths from
Charlie B, who was two lengths in advance
of Niglitmarch, wnom Roy Reed did not
bustle when he saw he had no chance. There
was considerable hooting among the crowd,
some objecting to Nightmarch’s showing and
others to Cavedweller’s sudden improvement
—he had run indifferently when one of the
favorites on the previous Saturday. He is
owned by P. F. and C. J. Moore, who are
interested in the course, and has won most
of his races there.
* * * *
For Rosehill on Saturday:—
Highweight Handicap : Raisin ; next, Boss
Poppy.
Club Handicap: Royal Smile; next, Tidal.
Trial Stakes: Lightress ; next, Sir Tarsia.
Rydalmere Mile: Amor; next, Lipari.
* * * *
Caramelo, who had finished so brilliantly
when defeated by Second Wind at Caulfield
a week before, was served up a warm
favorite for the Moonee Ponds Handicap at
Moo nee Valley last Saturday. Melbourne
punters regarded the imported gelding as
one of those good things that rarely arise
on the turf horizon. Jack Holt withdrew
Second Wind and elected to depend on
Standard Bearer, owned by V.R.C. com-
mitteeman J. M. Niall. Standard Bearer
has exceptional length of stride, and, as Il'olt
feared, made the turns awkwardly. Caramelo
was similarly - embarrassed. He led, but
wasted a lot of effort and dropped out three
furlongs from home. Prince Viol, galloping
in something like his spring form, fought
out the finish with Kendler (12 to 1), who
scored by half a length.
On the ground that Dewhurst had struck
Prince Viol over the head, Prince Viol s
jockey lodged a protest. This the stewards
dismissed, deciding that Prince Viol pre-
cipitated the trouble by swerving in.
GETTING IT BOTH WAYS.
GOLFER-FISHERMAN : “My dear, my drive from the last tee was a wonder—easily
that long!”
Kendler belongs to “Darcy” Eccles, former
amateur billiard champion of the State, who
doesn’t bet as spiritedly as he used to do.
D. J. Price had intended taking Caramelo
and Balmerino (both owned by John
Edmond) over to Sydney for the Cup, but
plans may now be amended. The downfall
of Caramelo diminishes the credit accorded
to Second Wind for that Caulfield success;
at least, that is how it looks on paper. You
never can tell in racing. Romany Rye
(Percival up) was unable to warm up when
Second Wind won, and ran an inglorious
last At M'oonee Valley, piloted by Ashley
Reed, he was on the spot throughout, and
dead-heated with Standard Bearer for third
place. ....
James Wilson, the veteran owner-trainer
from Queenscliff, broke a long run of outs
bv taking the first division of the juvenile
event with Wapilly, a chestnut colt by
Blankney 11. In his opinion it was such
a moral that W. Cook declared 131 b. over-
weight in order to ride. Yet backers allowed
Wapilly to go out at 7 to 1. They saw
him smother the favorite, Forfeit, and score
handsomely from Mural Crown and Beautify.
Bert Price, who captured a V.R.C. Grand
National Steeple on Flash Jack before the
war trains Forfeit, who has heaps of speed
but' has been hard to keep on her legs.
Price is a son of the trainer of Caramelo.
He encountered misfortune again in the
first division of the High weight Handicap,
when Byron was narrowly vanquished by
John Wren’s Toper (2 to 1). Cook was
the winning jockey in this case also. Had
the riders been reversed Byron would have
downed Toper and spoiled the Donohue
stable plunge.
Mollison’s brother, Calmond, registered the
second victory of his career by winning the
second division of the youngsters’ handicap
from end to end. He gained a decisive
advantage at the staid, and was lucky to
come home in advance of the favorite,
Girouette, and Dick Turpin. Last-named has
inherited brilliancy from The Night Patrol,
but is the most obstreperous juvenile in train-
ing. On several occasions he has refused
to leave the barrier, and ground lost on
Saturday cost him the face. Calmond’s price
was 5 to 1.
E. L. Baillieu is having a renewal of
success as an owner. He appropriated the
Kyneton Cup with Spearlctte and won the
second division of the Highweight Handicap
at the Valley with Field Artillery, in whom
Mr. “Constable,” of Sydney, has a half-
interest. Field Artillery is well known on
Sydney courses.
* if. * *
For Epsom (Vic.) on Saturday:—
March Handicap: Temoin; next, Spang.
Novice Mile: Wee Beau; next, Black
Plumage.
* * *
“F.J.N.”: Harry Telford denies that lie
intends taking up permanent residence in
Melbourne. He informed one sporting scribe
that liis Sydney patrons would “go mad”
at the thought. Yet it has been circum-
stantially published that Telford has
obtained from the Board of Wiorks a lease
of the Braeside stables at Mentone, which
the water supply authoiities compulsorily
acquired from “S. A. Rawdon.” Telford
concluded his recent Melbourne sojourn by
running Moochaway and Eillom at the
Kyneton Cup meeting. These, neddies are
utterly out of form, and neither could , raise
a gallop. Telford has made no definite plans
regarding the riding of.Phar Lap in weight-
for-age events. He talks of giving appren-
tice Martin an opportunity of distinguishing
himself. , *
*!» , ■_ ._ *!* ,
“Sylvia Park”: A new Australasian record
went up last week- at Wellington ( M.L.),
when the 'four-year-old . gelding Glare cut
out 11 furlongs in the Autumn Handicap in
2min. 16f sec., carrying. Bst. lib. Glare is
Australian-bred, by Australian Sun (imp.)
out of the Flavus mare Travancorc. His
owner, J. W. Lowe, bought him at Sydney
yearling sales for 100 guineas. Maoriland’s
previous best was 2min. 17sec. by Star
Stranger on the same course in 1927. The
Australian record is 2min. 171-sec. by Tom
McCarthy at Brisbane eight years ago.
*
“Retired Urger” : A fine spirit of altruism
was evident in Sydney the other day, when
a deputation professing to represent breeders,
trainers, and owners waited on Chief Sec-
retary Chaffey in the interests of the public,
as it was careful to explain. The deputation
desired the Minister to take drastic action
against s.p. bookmakers, turf publications
and turf tipsters. Not only did the prophets
.bemuse the public, but they did not hesitate
to impute motives when horses failed to win,
or won when not expected. Worst of all, the
s.p. bookmakers lured taxpayers away from
the racecourses, thus causing them to fail in
their duty of contributing to the State
revenues. In short, the deputation gave the
Minister something to think about, and by
last advices he was still thinking.
Si! * SJ! *
“Billy th’ Goose”: I’ve bin slow writin’,
but tiler cows wouldn’t give me more than
three munce remissliun. I goes back ter the
goat game as soon as I come out, an’ finds
another mob ’as grabbed me goat-racin’
associashun idea. Fate plays inter me ’ands
as usyul, and w’en ther Derby wus run at
Brisbin’, things got so reddo that ther stipes
of the G.R. A. calls it no race. Ther sports
crowd, not knowin’, ops in an’ erwards
ther race an’ stake. In ther subserkwint
turn-up I forms er new goat-racin’ associa-
shun, an’ am now fair set ter ’and the other
mob ther k.o. I’ve got in touch with ther
Noo South Rugby League, an’ if I gets ther
support I expects, like they do, the both uv
us is ’ome on ther bit an’ can ignore the
old mob. Each sportin’ organisashun is ter
back the other, er course, in ther matter
uv splittin’ ther gates, utherwise no bizness.
* t- * *
“Bamboo”: With the holder of the trophy.
Goulburn, away in England, the Harden side
has a good chance of regaining the Dudley
Cup at the big N.S.W. polo tourney in Syd-
ney at the end of June. The advent of a
team from Siam, including one native player
of high social calibre, will add to tin 1
amenities of the meeting. Victoria, which
is not a regular challenger for the Cup, will
probably be represented by Caramut, with
which Harden recently had such a hard go
for the Australasian Cup in Melbourne. The
new polo ground at Kyeemagli is not yet
ready, and this year’s tourney will take place
at Kensington racecourse. When Ivyeemagh
is opened Sydney polo will get a much-needed
lift with two grounds for play and practice.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Youth triumphed at Sydney Stadium when
another promising local product, Young
Halliday (Bst. Bslb.), defeated veteran Jerry
Sullivan (Bst. 91b.), the fight being stopped
in the fourteenth round. It was a fast and
willing bout. In the opening round Sullivan
uncorked a right swing to the jaw, drop-
ping Halliday for eight. The lad had a
rough time weathering the round out. Then,
fighting confidently, Halliday forced the pace
throughout, though occasionally nonplussed
by Sullivan’s tactics. The seventh was
another sizzling affair, but from the ninth
to the finish, the youngster gave Sullivan
no peace, and the referee rightly called a
lrftlt. " ' ’•
“Tamar” : Joe Darling, long a Tasmanian
by adoption, recently took the opportunity
to give his old State one to go on with.
The Tasmanian cricket heads had done Joe
the honor of hanging an enlarged photograph
of him in the Hobart pavilion. The picture,
which might have moved some men to fury,
evidently pleased • .the great lefthander, for
in thanking the. Tassies for their courtesy
he reflected on . the fact that . the cricket
bosses of his own State had ignored his
services to the game. It may be that they
thought too much of him to commemorate
him with an enlarged photo. However, there
is yet time, and the addition of a red plush
frame is suggested as a neat way of getting-
even with the exile for biting the hand that
fed him.
* * * $
“Tasman” : Though the Australian Rugby
Leagues had been talking of bringing over a
team from Maoriland to offset the Rugby
Union’s attraction of the British side, nothing
definite seems to have been done yet. The
delay may be due to the turmoil with Queens-
land, but it is more likely they are waiting
to make sure of the Union’s dates before
fixing a time for the Maorilanders’ arrival.
* * * :!:
Lindrum wound up a meteoric season by
beating Smith by 21,285 points. Actual
scores were 36,250 (a world’s record aggre-
gate) to 14,971. His travelling mate, Maori-
-1 under McCpnachy, clinched-a double event
by downing the English champion, Joe
Davis, by 548 points. Both the tourists
return to Britain next year under new con-
tracts.
* * * *
“Garry”: Kaye Don’s first experiences
with his immensely powerful and heavy car,
the Silver Bullet, was not encouraging.
Despite its very long wheel-base and elabo-
rate springing, the monster, whenever it got
fip a pace of 150 m.p.h., threatened to shake
itself to bits. On the first run on Daytona
Beach the vibration put the supercharger out
of action; on the second, a petrol-pipe broke,
and on the third, Don was so severely buffeted
by inequalities in the beach surface that he
had 1 to close the throttle at a speed of 190
m.p.h. Evidently there is a limit to the weight
that can be put on four wheels if they are to
be driven at record-breaking speeds.
THINGS THAT COUNT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Hagen wore a dark green pullover and socks
to match, a lighter green tie, deep grey plus-fours
and black and white shoes. Kirkwood wore a medium
grey pullover, light grey plus-fours, battleship grey
socks and black and white shoes.” —Melbourne ‘‘Sun.”
“Wliat are the wild crowds saying?
Father, what means their roar
At this football game that’s playing?
O Dad, do they, yell for gore?”
“No, no, my son,” the father said;
“The sporting notes you can’t have read.
They comment, loud and eager on
The dinky pantalettes upon
Basher Magee, who has a flair
For tints that match his marcelled hair.
They’re probably approving, too,
Bull Jackson’s shirt of eggshell blue;
And Snodger Smith, they all agree,
Has dainty taste in lingerie.
But Tiger Murphy’s just a blot
On any game with boots like—-what?
Killing the umpire, eh? Well, now,
He would wear sloppy socks, the cow!”
“What are the wild mobs shrieking?
Father, ‘what* do they shout?
Is it someone’s death they’re seeking,
O Dad, at this Stadium bout?”
“No, no, my son,” the father cried ;
“Not murder nor yet suicide
In prospect so excites them all;
But tights of puce may well appal,
Combined, as all these boos attest,
With ginger hair upon the chest,
With green and yellow, too, alack!
About an eye but lately black.'
By discords such as these dismayed,
They badger Battling Mick McQuade,
And Slogger Sikes, the debonair,
Felicitate upon a pair
Of tasty trunks in pale cerise....
If you believe our journalese!”
victoria.
HASEN .


W. W GREENER
GUNS
mi
W. w. GREENER LTD., Birmingham
Wholesale Australian Representatives:
w. p. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.,
405-07 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, C.l.
d
it' s CAWBUY
ae*'S”;
e o*“ r
•*s»
atvt
'*> v ; A ?«*2 cV
•*%*«*•
cY
; reT*>
e v ?* €
„„„ tf®
P<"Ull
vj^ u bß°„oT s* tf
Will fully inflate the average motor-
tyre in one minute.
« the
RENRUT
QUADRUPLE
HAND PUMP
V
Price, 45/-
(With Gauge,
5/- extra.)
If unable to obtain,
write to our Factory
Representative;
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Mel-
bourne, Australia.
ROOM 500
PLEASE"
The comfort and success of your
visit to Adelaide, whether for a
week or a year, is assured when
you stay here. Yale locks on all
doors, fireproof, hot and cold
water in every room. Bed and
Breakfast, from 6/6.
>GROSVENOR
(Adelaides Finest U/iUcetised Jiatel
Opp. Railway Sin Norlh Terrace ADELAIDE
<SERT: ft What ever m?e you
TRVIN<=» TO do ? ”
B&RTf OUT OP Th\S Rut”
<se-c?t: ft vbut? clubs must be
Rdttem , »
its the qroukd
Th too Damned Hard . ”
Footbrawl
“Everton”: As usual, the Soccer folk have
been the first to open the football Season.
The N.S.W. section is now well into its
competitions. The State Association, which
is regarded as an amateur body, got yet
another setback, the clubs from the South
Coast collieries, hitherto members of the
association, following their Newcastle com-
peers into the ranks of the rival League,
a professional body. Queensland has prac-
tically gone over to the League idea,
and the .matter is engaging the attention of
a Victorian section of the round-ball game.
If the League can compass inter-State
matches and gates, it will go hard with the
older body.
* * * *
“Hotham”: In spite of complaints of
falling revenues—-the 12 leading clubs only
got £20,000 between them as their share of
last season’s takings—the Victoria Football
League opened its lordly pleasure house in
Spring-street, Melbourne, with infinite fuss
and feathers the other day. At the banquet
the . League lion lay down with the Asso-
ciation lamb, the enemies saying the sweetest
things of each other. The star turn of the
evening was the presentation of a £2OO
cheque to E. L. Wilson, one of the founders
of the League and for years its secretary.
His long service will be further com-
memorated by a shield to be presented to
the premier club annually.
* =!= # *
“Fitzcray” : The Australian football code
will at last permit the substitution of a fresh
player for one injured, the Westralian dele-
gates being the only dissenters. Nineteen
players are to be selected for a match, which
means that only one substitution will be
possible. While there is much to be said
for the practice, which is followed by the
Rugby codes in M.L. and Australia, there are
plenty of objections. It is not permitted in
Britain or the other Dominions, and will not
be employed when the British Rugby Union
side plays in M.L. or this country.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: Adelaide is experiencing the
same falling-off in football gates of which
Melbourne has been complaining. Last year
the attendances were less than in 1927, but
with admirable foresight the authorities had
raised admission prices, so revenues were not
correspondingly short, though they were below
those of the previous season. Supporters of
the game are now divided into two camps.
A poignant point has been made by one con-
troversalist, who deplores the cost entailed by
the increased charges to the man who takes
his wife and family to the arena. This is
the ordinary procedure in Adelaide, and
generally the dog gets there too.
* •:= * *
“Old Q.”: Queensland’s University has
seen the error of its ways, and the other
day converted its Rugby League club into
a Union one by the simple process of alter-
ing its title and vowing to worship in future
at the amateur shrine. This did not prevent
a few diehards of the professional code meet-
ing and forming a new League club.
* * * *
“Bowen Bridge” : The Queensland Rugby
Union, now firmly established in Toowoomba
and Warwick as well as the metropolis,
has been granted a couple of extra matches
against the N.S.W. side whicli leaves Sydney
on May 27. In addition to the Brisbane
games, one each will be played at Toowoomba
and Warwick, the tourists being away from
Sydney for a fortnight. The record in that
direction was the trip of the 1597 side,
which went to Charters Towers after its
matches in Brisbane and Toowoomba. There
was no northern rail route then, and it was
neai-ly six weeks before the party saw the
beloved harbor again.
‘ Gateliound”: The N.S.W. Rugby Reague
has made an unholy mess of its interference
in the row between the Queensland and Bris-
bane bodies. The latest of its several
peace delegations to the North —they are
said to have cost some £7OO-—recommended
that the Brisbane League be officially recog-
nised by N.S.W. As soon as the Brisbane
crowd got busy on forming a new Queensland
League the original body pointed out to
N.S.W. that its action was a direct repudia-
tion of all agreements, putting its offensive
interference in other folks’ affairs on one
side. Further, the Q.R.L. announced that,
as ono of the parties to the “Australian”
board of control, it could not consent to the
recognition of the Brisbane rebelts, and was
taking immediate steps to inform the English
and M.L. Leagues of the N.S.W. League’s
attitude towards its pledged undertakings.
As an example of the professional spirit in
sport the whole happening is instructive.
The Watermen
“Torrens” : South Aus., having selected its
crew for the King’s Cup, finds itself in a
quandary. The. only sculler it has in sight
is F. R. Heidrick and he has been chosen
as No. 3 in the eight. It is hardly likely
that ho will be asked to hop into a shell for
the solo event as well. South Aus. is due
for a win in the eights, having- missed since
1923. If it can collect the Royal Pot it will
probably get over the failure to find a starter
tor the sculls.
* * * *
“Toowong”; Brisbane followers of rowing
enjoy an advantage denied to their fellows
in other States. The Toowong reach of the
river on which most of the regattas are held
is flanked by a long esplanade, and*the fleet-
footed, with those so fortunate as to com-
mand a motor-car, literally follow the sport.
Even the umpires have been accustomed to
career alongside the contesting crews in
motor-cars, but a stop is to be put to this.
More than once the ump.’s attention has
been distracted by the crash of a collision
or the squelching noise emanating from some
too-tardy pedestrian, with corresponding
results on his decisions. In future he is to
trail behind the crews in a speed-boat, leaving
the Riverview speedway to the non-official
element.
❖ * :Ji :js
“Shell”: Since he beat Goodsell, Barry
has been unable to get a match. The N.S.W.
oarsman Burns was a possibility at one
time, but faded out of the picture. Good-
sell will not race in England, for reasons
best known to himself. Now a challenge
has been received from Ted Phelps, a 22-
year-old member of a famous Thames-side
sculling, family. None of the tribe has
figured in the world’s championship to date,
but three of them have carried off the blue
ribbon of Thames professional sculling, the
ancient Doggett’s Coat and Badge. The first
was W. Phelps in 1875, the second C. Phelps
in 1884, and the third T. E. Phelps in
1919. Ted Phelps was pacemaker and train-
ing mate for Australian Bobby Pearce at the
last Olympiad.
Racquet and Bawl
“Glenelg”; South Australia had a good
win over a fairly strong Victorian tennis
side on the Memorial courts in Adelaide,
taking the men’s singles by 3 to 2 and the
doubles by 2 to .1. R. P». Hone was in
fine fettle, and so was Turnbull, though
Ilawkes had the better of him in their match.
J R. Black, who is in the pony class, also
did well, winning his singles' and beating
Ilawkes in the State championship event.
H* sjc ;j!
“Latex”: Just when the world, or that
part of it that takes any interest in such
things, was rejoicing in the tacit consent of
the International Tennis Federation to a
match between the amateur Cocliet and the
professional Kozcluh, the French tennis
authorities have hopped in and banned the
clash. It was hoped that this divergenoe
from the rules of amateurism might have
opened the closed door between so many
sports divided in similar fashion. The French
tennis heads have settled the question—for
the time being, at least. Their reason for
doing so, that they would have to pay heavy
taxation for countenancing such a' matcli,
has not done much to increase the prestige
of amateurism—that is, as the French
L.T.A. regards it.
* * * *
“Angelique”: .1 notice some of the Sydney
journals—they can pick themselves —are
asserting that women are deserting the hard
court tennis clubs for those which possess
grass courts, the reason being that the grass
circle claims a higher social status than the
antbed mob. A social leader in both spheres,
I say dicken to that. The reason is that grass
courts are much more convenient when one
has to give way to the tennis temperament.
I need only refer to the famous instance
quoted some _ time ago by The Bulletin
when a prominent lady player threw herself
on the turf and bit a large piece out of it.
Just fancy trying that on a hard court!
Why, one’s things would be absolutely ruined,
to say nothing of the awful taste of a hard
court. I know; I've tried it.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: It is distressing, as
I have observed before, to note the degenera-
tive influence of tennis, an influence which
I am glad to learn has been also animad-
verted upon by an Irish contemporary of
mine (B. 5/3/’3O). In a match between
Paris and London the other day the
Frenchmen won easily. Because Austin beat
the fading Basque Borotra the English press
revelled in an ecstasy of jubilation. I have
in my possession a copy of the “Times” which
gives the story of Waterloo. There is not
half so much rejoicing in that matter-of-fact
chronicle as there is in the cabled story of
Borotra’s defeat.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: The Hagen-Ivirkwood
evangelists returned to Sydney early in the
week. They seem to have had better luck
in the matter of gates in Vic. and S.A. than
they had in N.S.W., or if they hadn’t the
Melbourne and Adelaide papers kept quiet
about it. A section of the Sydney
journals, on the other hand, was full of
accusations of “meanness” and “scaling”
against the tax-harassed public which daily
.supplies its pennies to the support of the
complaining rags. Things cannot have been
too bad by the Harbor, either, for the pair
will make several further appearances in
N.S.W. before going on to Brisbane.
,“B.” : It struck me, as one with an open
mind on the matter, after seeing Hagen
and Kirkwood in Melbourne that any auto-
matic action, like knocking the heads off
daisies with a cane, could be elevated into
a world-wide craze, with millions of acres
segregated, and thousands of pavilions
erected, to its use. Possibly the robot-like
character of golf explains why its devotees
express their libidos by arraying themselves
like the bird of paradise and inventing their
interminable jokes.
“Bumpkin”: Kirkwood caused a profound
stir in Victorian golfing circles after his
match at the Metropolitan links with Hagen
by informing an inquirer that the secret was
to “stand up and be confident; keep your
hands loose and your head steady. That’s
all there is to it—the rest is a matter of
brute force and ignorance.” Unable to dis-
tinguish between a stymie and a niblick, I
am loath to butt into the controversy, but
what impressed me about the match between
the two champions on the Metropolitan links
; —one of the loveliest bits of artificial nature
in Australia, by the way—was the mechani-
cal precision of their play. The noise of the
crickets and the twittering of the birds was
not a whit more monotonous than the
repetition of sundry stereotyped movements
at each of the 18 greens, holes oi; mashies,
or whatever they are called. I am a babe
as regards cricket and football also, but
even an ignoramus can understand the
reasons for the vogue of those games.
* * ilc sjc
“Iconoclast” : Golfdom shrieked when taxa-
tion fell upon it last week at the instance
of a Federal Treasurer who is actually a
golfer himself —“et tu, Ted!” will be found
written on a lot of hearts some day. Details
are not yet published, but the area of a golf
course suggests the slug will be a solid one.
Coming on top of the recent sharp increase
in spirit duties, the new burden will be hard
to bear. A golfer simply must drink Scotch
whisky. To employ the local product in the
game is simply not done, even by associates.
* * * :i:
“Brassey”: The Lakes Golf Club, one of
the latest and most picturesque of Sydney’s
suburban links, has gone far afield for a
professional. Choice has fallen on Arthur
East, whom many Australian golfers will
recall as pro. at Concord (N.S.W.) and
before that with Fred Popplewell at the Aus-
tralian Club. For some years the soon-to-
return traveller has been head professional
at the Elmshurst Club, of Chicago, one of
the largest in America. It was he, by the
way, who first inclined our Joe Kirkwood’s
thoughts to that fair land which has done
as much to increase the purpose and scope
of golf as it has done for the employment of
hip-pockets.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: The classic saying about
Africa always putting up some new joke
was exemplified the other day, when a num-
ber of South African golf professionals took
the unprecedented step of going on strike.
It was at a big tourney at Bloemfontein,
and one Archie Tosh, who obviously hailed
from the cradle of golf, was objected to by
the other pros, because he Avas not a member
of the S.A. Professional Golfers’ Association.
Three members of the association decided to
play, and have been expelled. So far the
strike has been confined to the Orange Free
State, but the trouble may take on an inter-
state aspect at any moment.
**■ * *
“Cranoustie” : A great old golfing warrior
lias fallen by the wayside, or, rather, has
chosen to fall out of the ranks. This is J. 11.
Taylor, who with Braid and Vardon repre-
sents the last of the old guard which made
the game world-famous. The veteran won
his first British open championship in 1894
at Sandwich, and repeated the trick four
times, the last occasion being in 1913. A
miracle of steadiness, his battles with Vardon
and Braid'arc golfing history.
❖ * ❖ ❖
“Hoylake"’: Events are shaping up for the
British golf championships. Bobby Jones will
have one more try for the amateur title.
Though Avinner of the open event twice in
succession, he has not yet lifted the blue
ribbon of amateur golf.
x % * *
“Delia” : Golf shares Avith fishing and big-
game hunting a reputation for happenings
Avhicli stagger the imagination. One recently
chronicled in England is Avell up in the run-
ning. Four players at the Royal East-
bourne club drove off for the eighth hole
of 173 yards, which is 100 ft. higher than
the tee, and three finished their drives within
a foot of the pin. The fourth, being com-
miserated Avith, looked in the hole and found
his ball there.


POPULAR COWBOY SADDLERY
■M
- v
\
*
The
Texas Ranger
Cowboy Saddle
In nut-brown hide, double-
rigged, as illustarted,
£l3/186
Freight paid for cash with
order to any N.S.W. Rail-
way station.
Fancy Studded Cowboy Bridles, with
gold-color bit, with nickel horse-
head on cheeks. Two patterns,
72/6 and 76/- each.
Breastplates to Match . . 65/-, 75/-
Cowboy Spurs . . 7/6 to 35/- pair
Cowboy Chaps—
With fringe, 87/6; with conchas, 95/-
Cartridge Belts. Single row, 10/6; double, 20/-
Write for Catalogue of Texas and Australian
Saddlery, Whips, Harness, etc.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
SADDLERS, 395 George Street, Sydney. Box 785 G.
ď
For Workshop
Home & Farm
76
sievert
ST 0CKH0l/1
J
A genuine Sievert Blow Lamp for motorists,
radio work and general use. Every household
and workshop has need of a Blow Lamp at
times. The low price of 7/6 brings the
Sievert within reach of all.
Approximately 5 inches high.
Burns for an hour at one filling.
Supplied with special safety valve and a patent
self-cleaning device.
Petrol can be used down to the last drop.
Directions supplied with each lamp.
PTY., LTD.
SYDNEY 51 Bathurst Street
MELBOURNE 582 Collins Street
kHS
t«•,
rt * 5
it,
sas®
'\¥ „
0H
. »
# •
♦«**
«*»
£lSs*** *" ■
A pictorial
guide to
America
Fascinating this new booklet
illustrated with latest pictures of
San Francisco, New York, Yosemite,
Grand Canyon, Niagara Falls and
other famous places of the United
States. It tells how easy it is to
travel across America when you go
back home. Free to those planning
trips to England. Call or write for
your copy.
Oceanic Si eamshipCo
MATSON LINE
Dept. M 2 12 Bridge Street,
Sydney. Tele.: B 7981.
You Know
This Famous Model 99
Repeating Rifle —from
Stock to Barrel!
If you are a true sportsman, you have long
known the shooting accuracy, perfect bal-
ance, ease of handling, smooth operation,
and beauty of finish built into each Savage
99 Hi-Power Rifle. For, it is just the type of
arm that every hunting man dreams of and
d
wishes for.
Here at last is your op-
portunity. Here is as fine a
hammerless, lever-action,
repeating rifle as modern
gun-craftsmanship can
produce —at a nominal
price, within your reach.
Model 99-G
Calibers: .zz Hi-Power,
.30-30, .303, .Z5O-300 and
.300 Savage.
Make a point of in-
specting one of the group
of 99’s—the Model 99-G,
shown here, is most pop-
ular for all-’round use. It
has a tapered round bar-
rel and raised ramp front
sight base. Shotgun butt,
full pistol grip. Check-
ered stock and forearm.
Steel butt plate. Proof-
Tested barrel of Hi-Pres-
sure Steel.
Use Savage
Ammunition
Savage ammunition hav-
ing been specifically de-
veloped to bring out the
best shooting qualities in
Savage Rifles, is recom-
mended.
Send for full information—
or make a point of inspecting
the Savage line.
Exclusive Representative for Australia
and New Zealand
ASHER SMITH, LTD.
P. O. Box 966 Sydney, N. S. W.
SAVAGE ARMS CORPORATION
Export Offices: 100 East 42nd Street
New York, U. S. A.
SAVAGE
Fublic Notice.
POSTERS
1 (1930)
announce their unique Catalogue
is being posted to last year’s
Customers.
FOSTERS are famous for SUPERIOR
STRAINS OF FLOWER SEEDS. To
become acquainted with their Choice and
Extended Stock, write for Catalogue.
FOSTERS, LTD.,
192 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Car and Cycle
“Pram”: One feature of the tiny type of
car which originated in Britain is its ability
to stand up to rough long-distance work,
probably because, as is often the case with
humans, it is not big enough to go wrong.
Still another of the breed is to be tried on
a round-the-world trip which is intended to
sample 23 countries. It is a Riley 9, and
will start with its passengers, C. E. Shippam
and F. Dixon, from Quebec through Maori-
land, and then from Sydney west to Perth.
From there the run home to London will be
from Singapore across Asia and Europe.
Tours of the sort are getting a bit monoto-
nous. A novelty would be the transport of
the scooter across water by aeroplane. A
’plane of the Southern Cross variety could
carry half a dozen of the midgets and their
passengers as well.
* * * *
“ILIUM.”: The reference to a forgotten
Australian speed record put up by A. Jewell
on Southport (Q.) beach (B. 12/3/’3O)
mentions that tne make of the car which
established the then record of 81.81 m.p.h.
was not given. I was present when the
run was made, and can certify that the
machine was a big Mercedes which Jewell
had brought from Muoriland. At the time he
was a motor salesman in one of the big
Brisbane agencies.
❖ H* ❖
“Chug”: The first motor-car built in
Australia was the work of Herbert Thomson,
of Melbourne. A crude, pneumatic-tyred,
steam-driven contraption with seating accom-
modation for six, it was driven about Mel-
bourne in 1896, and, after doing a few
thousand miles, wms exhibited at a Royal
Show. Lord Brassey and other notables
then in Melbourne inspected and rode in it
during Show time. The car was also exhibited
at the Sydney Show of 1900, after which it
was driven back to Melbourne over very
rough roads. The conveyance is no more, but
its builder is still about and resides at Mal-
vern (Vic.).
* * * *
“Sucre”: Car-owners in France are
now using a mixture of benzol and alcohol
in the proportion of 10 of the first to 90
parts of the. second. The alcohol is distilled
from waste products, principally sawdust, and
with special carburetters gives as good results
as pure petrol. Queensland has for some time
been preparing for large-scale distillation of
power alcohol from sugar by-products, but
so far little has been heard of it on the
general market.
The late J. E. BYRNE (left), a well-known
Sydney trainer, and his brother, P. B.
Byrne.
“Lift”: The weary wayfarer who begs a
lift from passing motorists is a nuisance
not unknown in Australia. In America he
has become a danger as well, many motorists
having been assaulted and robbed by their
ungrateful passengers. The State of Georgia
is the first to take special action, and in
future anyone begging a lift will be liable
to calaboose without the option. Many Aus-
tralian drivers would be grateful for some
protection of the sort, especially that Queens-
lander who was sued some time ago for a
day's wages by a swagman whom lie had
asked to open a few gates while giving the
man a lift across the Central Queensland
plains. He had to pay, too.
* * * *
“Munchausen, .Tun”: Though the motor-
ear has revolutionised travel, it'hasn’t cramped
the style of the travellers arhd their tales. The
latest comes from Nigeria, where a motorist
tound himself in the wilds with his batteries
exhausted. He was fortunate enough to
encounter a still uneaten missionary who
possessed a bicycle—wonderful how tlie luck
holds good in these circumstances. Skinning
a native goat, he made a driving belt from
the hide, and, connecting his dynamo and the
cycle wheel with this, soon recharged his
battery. Taking it all round, the only actor
in this drama of the wide open spaces with
any reason for kicking was the goat, and
he was dead, anyway.
* * * *
“Sprocket” : Cecil Walker goes back to the
U.B.A. after several months of successful
ruling in his native land. Distance work is
his specialty, but he is more than useful over
the. shorter runs, as one or two professed
sprinters have found out since he returned
™ .fDsL-alia- For six successive years
. alker lias held the title of all-round cham-
pion m America, and he expects to retain
what the Americans amiably entitle his
world’s” championship.
Miscellaneous
“Blade Sight”: P. A. Pavey, who won the
V ictorian King’s Prize on the trickv Williams-
town range with the Australasian record
score of 340 points, lias been steadily knock-
ing at the door. It is an interesting com-
mentary on the automatic accuracy of modern
range shooting that he dropped only 15
points on the 71 shots fired in the different
stages, and then only beat previous records
—there were three of them, two in N.S.W.
and one in Victoria —by a single point. A
member of the Caulfield club, Pavey lias
long been prominent in Victorian rifle shoot-
ing, though he is only 28. H'e was one of
the most successful shots in the last Aus-
tralian team at Bisley.
% % &
“Long Rest”: Australia, which collected
the amateur billiard championship of the
Empire in South Africa last year, through
the agency of L. W. Hayes, is to be the
venue of the tourney in 1931, for. the first
time in the history of the competition. The
series will be played in Sydney, and it is
expected that the South African roll-up,
which included players ‘ from Britain, Ire-
land, South Africa and Asia, will be
exceeded. Already the State amateur bil-
liard authorities are beginning to raise funds
for financing the tourney, and an inquiring
eye is being specially focussed on clubs and
other institutions which affect billiards.
* * * *
“Queens”: The Oxford-Cambridge Univer-
sity sports saw the Dark Blues take the
knock for the fifth successive year, Cam-
bridge winning 8 events to 3. The only
point-scorer for the losers mentioned in the
cable was W. C. Wentworth, of the Armi-
dale (N.S.W.) School and a representative
of England in last year’s athletic visit to
the United States. Even he only managed a
second over his favorite distance* of half a
mile. On the winning side, J. T. Wallace,
of Geelong, took the shot-putt. Oxford’s
continual bad luck is amazing, considering
the material she has to draw on. It was
hoped her victory in the last Rugger match
might break the trot, but relief is apparently
not yet in sight.
ifc si: • :H ❖
“The Gaffer”: The “world’s” professional
sprint championship bobs up at Melb. Motor-
drome again next month, from April 5 to 12
Except for an occasional Maorilander, the
competitors are all Australians. This in-
dicates the appalling poverty of the game
outside these enlightened shores, for the money
offered for the four events from the 75 to the
220 is good enough to attract overseas run-
ners if the class were up to local standards.
M.L. has already nominated something hot
in D. McLennan, who cut the M.L. profes-
sional figures for the 100 to 9 4-ssec. As
the championship goes on points gained in
the series of four races, Mac will need to
be slippery over the other distances as well.
* ' * * *
“Bumpkin”: The Melbourne tennis court
(B. 5/3/’3O) is situated in Elizabeth-street,
and inspection of it explains why the game
isn’t a domestic pastime. It is essentially
aristocratic, or, rather, plutocratic. The
Melbourne court cost £12,000 and occupies
a site worth £20,000. Members number 150.
The huge building, of Tasmanian freestone,
purports to be an exact replica of the original
monastic cloisters in Italy where all forms
of tennis had their origin, in monks hitting
solid balls about in the fourteenth century
between matins and vespers. There is the
tambor, or grille, where the food emerges
from the buttery-hatch; the penthouse, the
galleries between the columns of the cloisters,
the dedans and other architectural survivals.
$ $ $ $
“Backwoodsman”: A bitter cry has gone
up from the N.S.W. bowls fraternity over
the Government’s decision to shelve the
amendments to the Liquor Act. These would
have enabled many of the clubs established
since the fountains were dried by war-time
provisions to complete the equipment of a
properly conducted bowling club in which
they have been lacking. The old clubs’
withers are unwrung. At the same time
their members don’t care to visit other clubs
where the bowling spirit is only produceablc
from private lockers. And now, just when
the gloom promised to lift, it has descended
again with all the emphasis of an elephant
failing from a - precipice.
* * H= *
“Hotham”: Spencer-street station was
seething with excitement when the Australian
Eleven departed for the West, and it w r as
remarked that some of those selected from
other States lost no time in entrenching
themselves in the carriages. However, the
locals took it all in very' good part, not a
solitary dead cat being thrown, much less the
bombs that some optimists expected. About
the only sign of feeling was tumultuous cheer-
ing for Jack Ryder, who was pi-esent at the
farewell ceremony. As the team was
reported at Adelaide later, no one could have
interfered with the permanent way, or even
attempted to dope the engine.
* $ * *
“Huon”: One feature of the Australian
team which struck Tasmanians was the slip
fielding of Queenslander Hornibrook. Always
competent in this department, the lefthander
showed a brilliancy and certainty which
surprised the local critics. As the slips
department is one of the weak spots of the
touring side, it is to be hoped that Horni-
brook will retain his Tasmanian form. As a
matter of fact, the lathy Brisbanite is a
much more efficient all-rounder, not forget-
ting the batting side, than those who get
their cricket information from the N.S.W.
and Victorian press have been allowed to
suppose.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip” : The N.S.W. cricket autho-
rities have decided to drop their system of
employing three part-time coaches, and will
appoint a full-time official at £4OO p.a.
Victoria relies on amateur coaching, but
Westralia, South Australia and Queensland
have recently employed salaried instructors.
Whether the N.S.W. body wall look for an
overseas man; as Queensland and S.A. did,
or engage an Australian, like the Westralians,
remains to be seen. One thing is certain,
that, once adopted, the project should be
persevered with if any good is to come of it.
Employing a coach for one season or even
two is a sheer waste of money.
*** ' *
“B.”: Speed-boat owners who have trans-
ferred their craft to the Albert Park Lake in
Melbourne have discovered that they are up
against a regulation covering all waters in
the State. This provides that no mechanic-
ally propelled vessel may be driven at a speed
of more than five m.p.h. in a depth of less
than 10ft. The average depth of the lake is
two feet, which doesn’t give much keel
clearance for the local ducks.


Would Cost Taxpayers
£4,0 O 0,000
d
Victorians
von
THUS
Authorised by *J.J. L/stom The B/ock ' Co //ms St.Me/6.


H wmmtm >?y
- >C
„ .'.Sk •* i
■
\ "* f*ft- --* - ••
■,-WW
':/■■;• ;3 ■/ -is
. .■ - ■ ; ■
v
mmmmmm 11®
■ ■ ■
m
<\
:
mt:
-
mmmm
m
:. .
i
an
■
’ tSm 1
_ —
§§ll
<*>- ■■■■■:
is.
.
If is
§
L
HS
■: . ■ ?
111
WWMMUWh
” ' '
.
mm
' •&>• I
m
WmMmB.
mmmmmam
a
I
WiSiSmi
■■■■■
'/O' j-^e»
•s..
tmm
:
«f|W|l!w
//.S'//;////// l|
;. gm : ; ;■,.?•■:./■■■
flHi
IH11R
111
■
—
A
I


THE GOSSARH LINE of BEAUTY
*
\
yth
W%
hHhbkmßh
A Solitaire by Gossard, made of brocade and elastic.
The top is of pliable satin tricot Model 8023.
Your
Natural Figure Beauty
Is Emphasized by New
Gossard Foundations
Many are the designs in the new Gossard Line
of Beauty, all displaying consummate creative
ability and workmanship New materials
are fashioned to give you the utmost grace of
figure line, utmost comfort in bodily movement.
Combinations, Solitaires, girdles, brassieres,
step-ins and front lacing corsets meet the
needs of each figure type —answer the natural
feminine desire for variety in under-fashions.
THE CANADIAN
H* W* GOSSARD CO M Limited
114-120 Castlereagh Street
Sydney, N. S. W.
MADE WITHIN THE EMPIRE
K-AUSTiID
Exclusive Diamond Rings at
DRUMMONDS
Diamond Ring,
with diamond set
“step” shoulders,
£3O.
Diamond “Soli-
taire’.’ Ring, with
diamonds on
shoulders,
£5O.
Wegmi&fim#
Diamond Ring,
with set shoulders,
£B5.
Diamond Ring,
with diamond
“step” shoulders,
£l5O.
Calibre cut Dia-
mond Ring, with
“baton” diamonds
on shoulders,
£5O.
Calibre Diamond
Ring with “baton”
cut diamonds on
shoulders,
£BO.
Diamond Ring,
with diamond
set shoulders,
£lOO.
Calibre cut Dia-
mond Ring witli
diamond set
shoulders,
£37/10/-
Diamond Ring,
with diamond
set on shoulders,
£5O.
Diamond Ring
with diamonds
on shoulders,
Calibre cut Dia-
mond Ring, with
“baton” diamonds
set on shoulders,
£7O.
Marquise Diamond
Ring, with dia-
monds on
shoulders,
£6O.
Diamond Ring,
with diamond set
shoulders,
£3O.
Circle Ring, set
with 25 brilliant
cut diamonds.
Best value in
Australasia.
£lB/18/-.
THESE Rings, fashioned in the most beautiful designs and set with carefully
selected gems of the finest quality, represent but a few of a wide
selection, equally magnificent, that is always available for inspection at
the firm’s showrooms. The exceptional facilities at the firm’s disposal enable
them to select their gems from the world’s finest offerings, while the
experience gained by more than 50 years of specialising permits them to
offer quality and workmanship that is not obtainable elsewhere.
OTnt Brummonb & Co.
THE COLLINS STREET JEWELLERS,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Books for the use of
ELECTRICIANS
Prices. Posted.
Practical Alternating Currents and Alternating Current
Testing. Smith . . . ! 13/6 -/8
Electric Lighting, Starting and Ignition for Motor Vehicles.
Codd . 22/6 -/10
Transformers, for Single and Multiphase Currents. Kapp. 18/6 -/9
Motor Electrical Manual. Fourth Edition 3/6 -/4
The Ford Standard Electrical Equipment. Starting, Light-
ing, Ignition 12/6 -/4
Electric Wiring Diagrams for Motor Vehicles. Codd. . . 5/9 -/5
Automobile Starting, Lighting and Ignition Systems.
Page 15/- -/10
Power-house Design. Snell 50/- 1/3
Electric Control Gear and Industrial Electrification.
Wilson 30/- -/10
Magneto Manual. Langman 10/- -/4
Dynamo Electrical Machinery. Theory, Construction,
Operation. Hausmann 26/- 1/-
Handbook for Steam Users and Electricians. Swingle, 20/- -/8
Electric Switch and Controlling Gear. A Handbook on
the Design, Manufacture and use of Switchgear and
Switchboards, etc. Garrard 75/- 1/3
Electric Power Transmission. Principles, Design and
performance. Loew 24/- -/9
Primary Batteries. Their Theory, Construction and Use.
Cooper 13/6 -/9
Electrical Estimating for Industrial Lighting Installations.
Connan. 16/- -/6
Continuous Current Electrical Engineering. Maccall ... 19/- -/8
Electrical Engineering Testing. Parr 20/- -/9
Electric Motors. Direct Current and Polyphase. Two
Vols. Hobart 37/6 1/-
Practical Electricity. Croft 18/- -/9
Construction of Dynamos. Alternating and Direct Cur-
rent. Sewell 9/6 -/6
Electric Lighting and Power Distribution. Maycock .... 13/- -/8
Practical and Technical Electricity. Power Winding, Direct
Current. Wolber and Rose 17/6 -/8
The Book of Electrical Wonders for the General Reader.
Hawkes 10/- -/8
Mechanical World Electrical Pocket Book, 1930 .... 3/6 -/4
Practical Engineer Electrical Pocket Book and Diary,
1930 3/3 -/4
Write for Lists on Any Technical Subject.
OPEN ON FRIDAY NIGHTS.
LS.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTE
TECHNICAL BOOKSHOP,
Corner Market and Castlereagh Streets, Sydney.


THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
fhe Bulletin Newspaper Co,,
i!l4 George Street, Sydney.
9
uarantee of Wentworth Service\
Smart people—the leaders—-always congregate at the Went-
worth—the most efficiently-managed hotel in Australia.
They know, from their personal experience, the real mean-
ing of service which is personally guaranteed by Mrs. H.
Maclurcan, the Governing Director.
Wentworth comfort and cuisine is a byword among
seasoned hotel guests.
Wire or write for reservations.
Ohe Wentworth
rar
Church Hill,
Sydney.
d
CASH’S NAMES ARE BEST.
DISTINCTIVE AND FADELESS.
“A Few Stitches and They ’re on ”
Sold by
Leading
Drapers
K.S. Talbot
Actual
Size of
Style N 0.2
life
VIA
fa Art
al6
Tir-mooi
Write for Name Style Circular to
j.&j.cASH, wt . v r;r;, , :. L r 0
85 CUBITT ST.. RICHMOND. MELB.
HI
V%or*
fir Lingerie
crfs Weio afbeAs.
'izfyeaJhecL iVas/wnfi"
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
P[?] C[?]trul [?] for [?]
Buckley [?]Nuñ [?]
S[?]
Good-byes said by Lady Stonehaven dur-
ing the week covered all classes of. society.
Members of the Vic. “foorce” marched up the
avenue of Government House one afternoon
last week at the invitation of their Exes,
and clasped the deputy-royal hands. The
next evening 300 newsboys, as much im-
pressed as the tribe can be, marshalled by
Edith Onians, who is their tutelary auntie,
were guests at a high tea. Her Ex. and
her two daughters helped to, wait on the
boys, who soon thawed and thoroughly
enjoyed the after-games and entertainments.
The annual meeting of the It.A.N. Friendly
Union of Sailors’ Wives and Mothers, held
at Government House, was another oppor-
tunity for v.-r. leave-taking. Admiral. Ures-
well’s lady proposed the vote of thanks to her
Ex. and expressed regrets at her departure.
Rear-Admiral Munro Kerr’s wife was elected
president of the union.
Owing to the death of Lady Stonehaven’s
father, the reception at Federal Government
House last week was a soft-pedal affair. The
younger set, who simply can’t be kept down,
was banned. The list was culled from the
learned professions, represented by their
staidest members, and by elderly folk whose
social status is so secure that they usually
skip Government House functions and don’t
rally round unless they have the tip that the
proceedings are going to be extraordinarily
demure. As her Ex. is expected to leave
for England some months before the G.-G.,
the function was regarded by most as her
farewell appearance. The ballroom’s length
was broken by islands of ferns, crimson
colens and other delicate foliage plants. Out
on the lawn there was a canopy of fes-
tooned fairy‘lights, but the air was keen and
there weren’t many folk around with a taste
for moonlight and romance.
On the entrance to the ballroom the guests
queued up and made bow and bob. Lady
Stonehaven's black chiffons dipped to the
floor. She added a necklet of glistening black
beads and long black gloves. Cars being
ordered for ten o’clock, the two school-girl
daughters of the house of Stonehaven, Ava
and Ariel, were allowed to mingle with the
company. They wore ivory satin frocks with
wee puff sleeves. An English guest, Miss
Montagu, a cousin of her Ex., wore a white
lace fichu upon her gown of black grosgrain
silk. Mayoress Luxton, who was there with
her husband, wore sapphire blue chiffon.
Chief Justice Irvine’s wife showed a dis-
creet segment of a very pretty back framed
in black moire. Speaker Peacock’s lady was
in chenille embossed georgette of powder-blue
tint. Mrs. Harry Creswick sported her
presentation gown, from the white and silver
brocade bodice of which billowed white tulle
heavily scattered with glistening sequins.
Mrs. Cautley Shaw featured the backless
gown in her black velvet model. Grey fur
bordered Mrs. T. H. Payne’s lengthy peri-
winkle-blue satin robe. Mrs. William Knox
set off her white hair with diamonds and
black lace. Rear-Admiral and Mrs. Munro
Kerr, Mr. and Mrs. Norman Brookes, she in
scarlet ninon, Captain and Mrs. Feakes,
Divinity-doctor Law and his lately-acquired
wire, Dr. and Mrs. Frank Apperly and
Nicholas Loekyer and his good-looking lady
were there.
The afternoon tea-party put on at Kurneh,
the South Yarra residence of Mrs. Norman
Brookes, on Thursday afternoon, was another
gathering mobilised to enable Lady Stone-
haven to say adieu to society. The flowers
used in decorating reception-room, ballroom
and numerous tea nooks rvere gorgeous. Pink
dahlias and carnations mingled with rose-
colored candles and silver candlesticks in
the dining-room, where a table was reserved
for. her Ex. and a few official folk. A
string orchestra competed with the chatter,
and there was strolling in the garden, where
the final handshakes with Lady Stonehaven
took place.
Lady Stonehaven brightened her all-black
raiment with a shoulder posy of mauve
blossoms, and her millinery was of the
shiny sort. Wearing berets and navy blue
coats and skirts, her daughters Ava and
Ariel looked in on- the party with their
pet Skye terriers. Mrs. Brookes hostessed
in a flowered chiffon gown topped by a red
hat. Hci' three daughters, Cynthia, Elaine
and Il'ersey, wore filmy frocks of varied hue
and design. There was preponderance of
black and magpie blends in the dressing of
the guests.
Thousands of shoppers paused at the
entrance to the Town Hall on Friday night
to watch the great ones of the earth arriving
at the Lud Mayor’s farewell reception to
the G.-G. and Lady Stonehaven. It was a
colorful show, in which the mess uniforms
of the navy, army and air force vied with
the very latest in feminine frippery. On
the arrival of their Exes, the guard of honor
drawn from the City of Melbourne Regiment
presented arms in the vestibule and the band
struck up the Anthem. Mayor Luxton, hung
with gold chains and draped in his robes of
office, extended a greeting hand and the
Mayoress presented crimson roses to her Ex.,
whose draperies of black chiffon were thereby
made to look blacker than ever. Mrs. Lux-
ton’s black gown dipped in an uneven hem-
line, and she wore a string of pearls. For
the good-bye handshakes a queue was formed
in order of precedence, and briskness was the
watchword, for there were 1200 guests to
be got through. From the gallery the scene
was brilliant. The stage was a forest of
tree ferns, with vivid hued tuberous begonias
in the foreground, and the crimson carpeted
dais fitted effectively into the color scheme.
A fountain in the centre of the room amid
more ferns made a rhythmic murmur, audible
in lulls .of chatter and orchestral music, and
islands of greenery were dotted all about the
hall. After the reception the Stonehavcns
mingled with the company. Then there was
supper and a return to the ballroom, where
the Mayor spoke the city’s farewell and his
Ex. responded. The Premier was there with
Mrs. Hogan, who wore a brocaded tinsel coat
over a flowered chiffon rock. Aldermen and
councillors had their lace jabots and ruffles
all freshly laundered, and it would be easiei
to say who wasn’t there of the city’s notables
than toi enumerate those who were.
Lord Stonehaven was at the M'oonee Valle.y
races on Saturday. There was a fair-sized
crowd there, but most of Society preferred
to see the match between H'agen and Kirk-
wood. Phlox and roses made gay the border-
ing of the lawn along the straight, and there
was plenty of color in the dressing of the
women. The M.V.R.C. was represented in
the ladies’ box by Mrs. Ben Lempriere, Mrs.
A. V. Hiskens and her daughter Mrs. 11.
Anderson, Mrs. W. Rogers Thomson and
Kathleen, the last-named in the palest green,
and some others. The Ben Chaffeys and
Merson Coopers were part of a Y.A.T.C.
contingent. A visitor from Britain, Lady
Whitehead, wore a black and white ensemble
with a long cape topped by a purple velvet
hat. Mrs. Ivan Gutmann also favored the
cape style in a blend of navy blue cloth
and lemon crgpe de Chine. Miss M. Bain,
recently returned from abroad, sheathed her
slim figure in navy blue satin cut on the bias.
Kitty Currie was one of the smartly dressed
representatives of the younger set, her pinky
beige jersey jumper suit being prinked up
with scarlet.
Broothorn here pictures Elsie Harris, who
was chosen
from over 600
contestants as
the Queen of
Beauty at the
recent Q.V.I-1.
Carnival. Miss
Harris, wh o
was taught to
dance by Jen-
nie Brenan, is
one of the
Firm’s chorus
girls and was
in “F 011 o w
Through ”
when she ac-
quired a crown
—p lu s £5 0.
Now she deco-
rates the front
row of the
chorus of “The
Maid of the
Mountains” at
the Royal.
Advocates of Temperance by Education
and believers in Temperance by Legislation
provided the greatest excitement of the week
at the annual meeting of the Housewives’
Association, over which Mrs, Percy Russell
more or less presides. The two parties met
to discuss the matter at Temple Court, but,
the advocates of Temperance by Education
deciding to hear their opponents from behind
locked doors, the partisans of Temperance
by Legislation were constrained to shout
their opinions through the keyhole until a
constable came along, broke down the barri-
cades and brought the two factions claw to
claw. Being unable to convince their sisters
of the justice of their cause by stamping on
their feet, trampling on their spectacles or
even by dancing on their hats, the T. by L.
party adjourned in taxi-cabs to Scots Hall,
closely pursued bv 300 advocates of T. by
E., also in taxi-cabs. Here the position w T as
reversed, the advocates of Temperance by
Education being obliged to speak through the
keyhole to motions submitted by the advo-
cates of Temperance by Legislation. No
joint vote was taken, and until an inventory
of the blackened eyes, scratched cheeks and
ruined headgear is provided it will be im-
possible to say where the association'stands
on the question. It is rumored, however,
that the result will be a dead heat.
Lady Somers, in an ensemble of navy
blue patterned in beige with blending balm
straw hat, visited Richmond one afternoon
last week to open the Melba Free Kinder-
garten. The kiddies’ school has been fur-
nished on the most modern lines —and the
modern lines are dashed expensive—at a
cost of £3OOO, and £lOOO of that is owing,
though the Mothers’ Association furnished
the kitchen. Directress Sylvia Johnston
made a further contribution by interesting
voluntary helpers to collect the cost of the
tables and chairs for the little scholars. A
gold key and a sheaf of blossoms, presented
by a wee girl, were souvenirs carried away
by her Ex. The committee of this kinder-
garten includes Mrs. A. B. Taylor, president,
Mayoress Luxton, vice-president, and Mrs.
J. It. Bellairs, hon. sec.
This radiant face, pictured by Spencer
Shier, belongs to Mrs. Frank Clewlow, wife
of the Director
of our Reper-
tory Society
Before her
marriage, a s
Minna Suck-
ling, she was
associated i n
England with
Sir Barry
Jackso n in
several of his
stage produc-
tions , and
afterwards
joined the
Repertory
The atre in
B i r mingham.
Recently she
returned from
a six months’
trip abroad de-
voted to study-
ing the do-
velopment of the repertory movement in
European centres.
Lady Somers’s interest has been enlisted
in the appeal for £lO,OOO for St. Anthony’s
Home, a Ivew institution for orphans and
foundlings. She spent an afternoon with
the Sisters of St. Joseph at the home during
the week and saw how the wheels went
round. The Mother Provincial of the Order
and the Sister Superior of the orphanage
were there to welcome her Ex., supported by
members of the executive committee, includ-
ing Mr. E. Downey, director of the appeal,
Mrs. H. Coleman, Mayoress of Kew. and
Mayor and Mayoress Robinson, of St. Ivilda.
A bevy of senior students from Genazzano
Convent formed a guard of honor, a kin-
dergarten infant tendered a posy of greeting,
and a small boy read an address of welcome.
St. Anthony’s was opened about five years
ago to relieve congestion at the orphanage
of Broadmeadows, and now the residence is
crammed to its utmost capacity. Little
white cots are lined up in corridors and
on the closed-in balcony, and the need for
more accommodation is obvious. As accom-
paniment to afternoon tea there was a
musical programme to which Walter Kirby
contributed. Among good friends of the
institution who were there w T ere Mrs. T.
Davis. Mrs. E. Downey, Mrs. T. J. Ryan,
Mrs. Merson Cooper, Eileen Byrne, hon. sec.
of the ladies’ committee of the home, and
H. Ross Soden, organising sec. of the appeal.
News same the other day from India that
Doris, second daughter of the William Par-
burys, of Toorak, was united on February
21 to Alexander John H'appell, of the Police
Department, of Madras. The bride wore
vellum-toned moire satin with a veil-and-
train cascade of old lace. Her sister Betty,
in an old-world frock of rose pink taffetas
and tulle, with bonnet-shaped millinery, lent
her assistance, and two small train-bearers
guarded the bride’s draperies.
Choristers of St. John’s, Toorak, sang
“The Voice That Breathed” at the wedding
of Muriel, youngest daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
J. W. Nicholas, Monaro Vale, Berrigan, N.
S. Wales, and Gilbert Charles Northcote,
of Toorak, on Thursday afternoon. The
bride wore white satin moulded to the figure
and falling into a graceful train, with a
veil of old Brussels-laee and a posy of orange
blossom. The attendant ’maids looked pic-
turesque in wreaths of maple leaves and
berries topping flounced frocks of ecru-lace.
They were Mildred Nicholas, Jean Hunter.
Peggy Essington King and Winsome Strong.
The wedding feast was laid at the Toorak
home of Mrs. F. F. Knight, sister of the
bride.
Nancy Weir, Australia’s nominee for the
musical niche occupied for too brief a while
by that wonderful Spanish-American woman
Teresa Carreuo, gave a farewell recital at
the Town H'all last week to an audience that
crowded itself into every available corner of
the building, and encroached upon the plat-
form. Miss Weir, in a flowered taffeta frock,
collected armfuls of gifts. She had just com-
pleted a concert tour that would have taxed
the strength of a much more mature per-
former, and her laughing plea, after her
final score number, that she wanted to go to
sleep was natural in the circumstances.
Nancy Weir went to Caulfield Military
Hospital and played for the patients last
week. She put the soft pedal on the upper
classics and wound up her programme by
playing soldier songs, to which the Diggers
cheerily furnished a chorus. As a memento
of her visit she carries off to Europe with
her a jewel-case of polished Australian
woods made by the patients.
The Nurses’ Association of St. Vincent's
Hospital held a bridge party in Brenan Hall
to help to buy radium. The organisers were
Mrs. W. It. Burston, lion. sec. of the associa-
tion, whose black chiffon gown had a slight
glitter, and the president, Miss A. Cavanagh,
who wore dipping lengths of geranium-pink
georgette.
At the pianoforte recital of Mrs. Geoff'ery
Palmer, know in student days as yEnono
Molesworth, there was an audience in which
society was largely represented, and it pro-
vided a shower of bouquets for the per-
formers. Mrs. Palmer is on a holiday visit
to her old home, having lived in England for
many years. Violinist Muriel Campbell, of
the Albert-street Con., diversified. the pro-
gramme, and a two-keyboard arrangement by
Gabriel Faure was given with the assistance
of Rita Hope at the second piano. Mrs.
Palmer’s chiffon of champagne tone had the
fashionable loose lengths and pin tucks, and
Muriel Campbell was a contrast in apple-
green. Pupils of the Con. acted as ushers.
Adele Crane, a study in black and white,
went to the Albert-street Con. last week with
her husband, Jan Rubini, to take leave of
fellow-students. The fair-haired willowy
singer is a graduate of this Melba school,
and the Past and Present Students’ Asso-
ciation brewed tea for her and flavored it
with many good wishes, for she sails to her
new home in ’Murca early next month. Fritz
Hart made a presentation—an article of
polished Australian wood —on behalf of the
flock of songbirds. Lilian Crisp, an ex-
student who is understudy to Gladys Mon-
crieff, came in for some of the limelight.
Mrs. Merson Cooper, who is off with her
husband to Europe on April 8, is running
the gamut of farewell billy-boilings, which
have to be sandwiched in between her efforts
to raise money to provide an adequate
supply of radium for St. Vincent’s Hospital.
Madame de Bavay presided over a good-bye
luncheon with bridge to follow at her Kew
home. The De Bavays’ son F. X. de Bavay,
of Hobart, is married to the Coopers’ only
daughter. The hostess wore a black hat
above a gown of magpie-blended chiffons,
and the guest of the afternoon Was in printed
black satin speckled with red and silver,
with a black velour hat. Marie de Bavay,
in all blue, was in the picture.
The District Nursing Association is losing
for 12 months or so one of its best workers,
Mrs. Clement H'. Davis, of South Yarra,
who is off by the Ceramic in April for a
trip round the world. She will be accom-
panied on her travels by her married daugh-
ter Mrs. Lee Brown and Mr. Brown.
Knight George Tallis’s son Jack is study-
ing the piano in Paris. The young man’s
teacher predicts a future for him as a pianist,
but his ambition is more in the line of com-
position, in which field he also gives promise
of high achievement.
Mrs. Byron Moore, with her daughters
Mrs. Ronald Gordon and Linda Byron Moore,
are waving good-bye to Melbourne on the
eve of sailing to England. There was a
kettle-boiling in their honor at the Alexan-
dra Club, hostessed by Ella Payne.
At the Prockter girls’ farewell concert
at the Town Hall Marjorie nestled her
fiddle on the shoulder of a pale pink chiffon
frock and ’cellist Gwen was wrapped about
in apple green ninon that took the backward
dip. Flowers and gifts rewarded the happy
looking maidens.
Now that our new conservatory in Fitz-
roy Gardens is fully stocked, Ballarat can no
longer maintain its proud aloofness in the
matter of tuberous begonias. The big new
glass-house was finished just in time for
the flowering of these vivid-hued blossoms,
and they make a show that takes the
breath away. All day long visitors trapse
across the lawns to stand amazed at the
preternaturally vivid reds; pinks, oranges and
yellows of these camellia-like blooms, in some
instances larger than saucers. They are
arranged on each side of the building, while
the centre is occupied with gorgeous ferns
grouped round a fountain.
With a view to securing closer co-ordina-
tion in scientific and industrial research
between Australia and the Older World, Dr.
A. C. D. Rivett, of Melb. Uni., is going to
London. Mrs. Rivett, a daughter of the late
Alfred Deakin, is accompanying him. The
prof, is chief executive officer of the Federal
Research Council. Au rcvoirs were said at
a tea-gathering at the South Yarra home of
Professor Masson and his lady.


Under?
■ Royal
.Warrant
d
To H.M.
George V
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
CMrfleidsieck
wmmmm
Australasian Agents
Swift & CompanyUmitad
SYDNEY
CHAMPACNS
QiarieslleidsieoC
REIMS
WM
ft I SI ,&***
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asror ts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 358 of 1930.
BETWEEN CAROLINE ELLEN CAYFORD Petitioner
and WILLIAM ROSS' CAYFORD Respondent.
To WILLIAM ROSS CAYFORD.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Caroline Ellen
Cayford has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or -excuse and
also on the ground of your habitual drunkenness
and leaving her without the means of support for
three years and upwards. AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance to
the said suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Nineteenth day of June One
thousand nine hundred and thirty and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
solicitors free of charge.
Dated this twentieth day of March, 1930.
For the Registrar,
D. C. DEAN,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
Samuelson and Cowie, Solicitors for the Petitioner,
115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
BETWEEN LILA MELBA CORNU (formerly
Halstead) Petitioner and PHILLIP CHARLES
LE CORNU, Respondent.
To PHILLIP CHARLES LE CORNU late of No.
12 Reynolds Street Neutral Bay.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Lila Melba Le
Cornu has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or excuse:
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before the
Fifth day of June one thousand nine hundred and
thirty and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
petitioner will proceed and the suit be hoard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on appli-
cation to the undersigned free of charge.
Dated this seventh day of March 1930.
For the Registrar,
[L.s.] D. C. DEAN.
Acting Chief Clerk in Divorce.
H. R. Seabrook, Solicitor for Petitioner, 62 Hunter
Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
D E NICHOLAS EDMUND BYRNES or
•TV BYRNE, Deceased.
TO THOMAS BYRNE, and to all persons
claiming by or through him.
The Public Curator of Queensland as
administrator of the estate of Nicholas
Edmund Byrnes, late of Gladstone in the
State of Queensland, Stockman, Deceased,
hereby requires you to prove on or before the
thirtieth day of September, 1930, you''
claim to share in the distribution of the
estate of the said deceased. After that date
the Public Curator will proceed to distribute
the estate having regard only to those claims
of which he shall then have received notic-
Claims must be proved by affidavit propen.,
supported by relative certificates of birth,
etc
J. B. O’DUFFY,
Local Deputy Public Curator,
Rockhampton, Queensland.
N.B.—The above-named Nicholas Edmund
Byrnes or Byrne is believed to have been
born at Knockmahon, Castlewarren, in the
County of Kilkenny, on September 19, 1841.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
Have you
ordered
Kraft Cheese?
Sydney has been in the hands of the
Rotarians. From India, China, Japan,
America and all corners of Australia and
Maoriland they have oozed genially into the
city.
For their conference the members made
David Jones’s auditorium the meeting-place.
Here, amid the incense of mellow cigars,
slim, stout, pale and sanguine Rotarians
read papers to the glory of the spirit of the
six-spoked wheel. They who didn’t read or
officiate were an attentive audience behind
the cigars, their eyes on the dais hung with
the flags of every country in which tin;
society flourishes. The blaze of color seeped
in and stirred the imagination till even the
brotherhood of man seemed possible.
At least one visitor leaped upon the
reason of Russia’s turmoil. Russia has no
Rotary. How can a country without a
Rotary live in harmony? With a club in
every province of that land, the Soviet lead-
ers would become experts in thrusting
smokes instead of swords upon their neigh-
bors.
The Rotarians had many wives with
them. Not that they are Mormons, but
there are many of them, and even one
wife to one husband means quite a
clutter. Then, of course, there are daugh-
ters to be counted in. The little Japanese
ladies, in their delicately-hued and -traced
national costumes, made the brightest patch
when the women-folk were gathered together.
One of the girls, Amy Kitashimo, who is
with her father, is a young journalist. She
is attached to “Jiyu Jakuen,” a monthly
magazine for women in Tokio. This girl is
progressive; a year or two ago she and some
more students started a co-operative store
at one of the city’s colleges, where food and
clothing are sold direct from the producer
to the customer.
The visitors were entertained at a party
at Government House-—rather a dull affair
except where three tiny ladies of Japan in
their kimonos and obis moved about in com-
pany. Once when they, sat in pensive mood
on the side of the fountain a whole battery
of cameras rushed at them and ate them up.
For the most part the guests, their names
and country of origin printed on them, wan-
dered rather aimlessly between the drawing-
room and the garden. In the latter were
beds of pink and lavender radiance under a
grey-blue sky, and within doors Trix
Tange’s fingers spattered radiance from the
grand piano. The Raynor girls, of the
T.0.Y., and Hugh MeOlean and his sisters
Dorcas and Georgina w*ere other clever artists
on the programme.
Men were so scarce as to be conspicuous,
but his Ex. and son Graham smiled kindly
on the assembled Eve, and Mrs. John Gar-
lick had persuaded her husband to come.
Lady de Chair, above cigar-brown frocking,
crescendoed to a wreath of orange flowers
about her hat, and Elaine, in her frocking,
was a young replica of mother. Mrs. A. A.
C. Holtz, of Melbourne, whose husband is
Rotary’s Australian king-pin, wore a com-
mendable mixture Qf navy and beige pink.
Mrs. George Yivers was smart in navy georg-
ettes ; Lady Grizel Hamilton, an English
visitor at Government House, wore red
cheeks above black and white chiffons;
black satin enfolded Mrs. Inoue, wife of
Japan’s Consul-General; while peach-pink
moire was the choice of America’s consular
lady and a fawn cape billowed about Mrs.
Arthur Eedy.
Rotarians smiled happily all the time at
the ball with which the conference closed on
Thursday night. Twice 800 soles massaged
the floor of David Jones’s ballroom, and
among the groups the ceremonial robes of
the visitors from Japan stood out memor-
ably. Community singing proved the great
mixer at this as at every other conference
party. After a great concourse, of people
have sung sharp or flat or maybe entirely
out of tune a few national anthems and
such, it’s impossible for anyone to look on
his neighbor with awe or aloofness. Another
matey touch was added by men and women
wearing their names —yes, and addresses !
neatly printed on cards and suspended upon
their chests. In Mrs. Holtz’s attire black
and gold lace and red roses were mingled.
Padre A. P. Campbell, president of the Syd-
ney Club, byought his wife, who suggested
old-time fragrance in lavender satins.
Charles Rhodes upheld the dignity of Maori-
land, and Mrs. Inoue, wife of Japan’s Con-
sul-General, wore exquisite parchment satins
cut with a flowing hemline. Rita Fox, in
white satin, was among the night’s belles.
Her frock, tight to the knees, cascaded in
frills to the floor. Mrs. Rupert Beale, in
loreli-green laces, was an impressive figure,
and the Julius lady, in blue chiffons, was
honorably mentioned.
The flowers at the ball, as at all the
Rotary functions, were beautiful. The ball-
room was radiant with dahlias, roses and
zinnias, and cool with juicy shoots of green-
ery, and the tables wore roses and trails of
frangipanni. At the conference dinner a
night or so earlier, in addition to the flowers
on the tables and about the room, the
Hawaiian delegates introduced the pretty
custom of presenting each guest with a glow-
ing lei.
There was a dismembered sort of air about
Government House the other afternoon when
the ladies connected with Rotary, home-
grown and foreign, foregathered at the bid-
ding of the Vice-reine. This was probably
due to the double row of pictures roped off
around two sides of the ballroom. These
gave the appearance of an old-fashioned
spring-cleaning in progress, but were in
reality a private exhibition of her Ex.’s
work. Here were the products of her busy
brush in Australian and South African
scenes, interspersed with canvases painted by
her sister. Already when this Letter saw
the show five or six of the paintings had been
sold, and a small but steady stream of Gov-
ernment House intimates had been viewing
this canvases which her Ex. announces are
being sold only to friends as souvenirs in
the interests of the Mary and Henry Struben
Orphanage near Capetown. It will be
remembered Lady de Chair was a Struben.
But in these difficult times Australia views
with a disapproving eye even charities which
take Australian money out of the country ;
and Lady de Chair’s original intention may
be readjusted accordingly.
A private ball is a very rare bird in Syd-
ney these nights, so the A. J. Cobcrofts’ must
be duly recorded in history. The affair, for
which nearly 200 invitations were accepted,
was to celebrate the coming wedding of Gavin
Cobcroft to Ellio Moses. The drawing-room
of the Australia, where the champagne and
such w 7 ere served, w 7 as a riot of crimson
roses, and over an archway on the main table
the same opulent blooms glowed thickly;
interwoven in the floral design was a great
horseshoe of dahlias and carnations. Mrs.
Cobcroft, in severely-cut black velvet that
flowed to the ankles and was lit by a
diamond or two, did the honors. Ellio
Moses, in a frock of rose-red lace, pat-
terned lightly in black, won commendation
from all. Kathleen Cobcroft, in orange
crepe, very long, and slashed into a deep
V at the back, was eye-arresting; Meg Hors-
ley, from Gundagai, a guest of the Cobcrofts,
aired Wedgwood blues, and another country
visitor, Mary Regan, from Tamworth, wore
snowy white.
Herewith a smiling Elza Stenning, of
Cremorne, the Nanecna of “The Devil’s Play-
ground,” the first talkie photoplay produced
in Australia, which the Censor recently
banned for
export. The
veto, though
u n fortunate
for Elza, isn’t
going tb keep
a good girl
down. Versa-
tility is her
strong point.
She formed
her own little
band of reper-
torians not so
long ago, and
produced a s
well as played
in old and
new comedies.
Two pieces in
w 7 hi c h she
pleased w 7 ere
“Billeted” ana
“A Woman of
No Import-
ance” ; she is known also to 2FC listeners,
she has helped the Mosman Musical Society
and figured as a leading lady in the Berlei
Revue which toured Australia last year.
H. W. Varna was responsible for her studies
in dramatic art, and in music she has had
the guidance of Andrew McCunn.
The Anzac Fellowship of Women netted
representatives from every Women’s move-
ment in the city to its farewell luncheon to
Lady de Chair. Two hundred women were
beckoned into position by Mrs. Jessica Lee,
who is hostess for the Fellowship in the
absence of Dr. Mary Booth, in England, and
in marine-blue georgettes, which flew one of
the new shoulder capes, and a black hat grace-
ful of brim, Mrs. Lee toned in admirably with
the dahlias blushing on the tables. Her Ex.
added a green scarf to her black and white
ensemble, and at speech-time, above a great
presentation sheaf of gladioli, had nothing
but praise to bestow 7 upon the work of the
Fellowship. Mrs. Lee, in her speech, took
the opportunity to remind her listeners of
the Vicereine’s love of trees, and urged that
each should keep her Ex.’s memory green
by planting one at least. Lady de Chair
has done her own bit about Hill View, at
Sutton Forest. Along one boundary a row 7
of young trees is flourishing, alternately
English and* Australian, planted under the
vice-regal eye.
The Overseas League, another of those
societies which give Britannia their moral
support in ruling the waves, has been resus-
citated by Eric Rice, the assistant secretary.
His seems to be one of those jobs you dream
about —all travel and pleasant talk, w 7 ith
headquarters in London. He’s a sort of
British ambassador to the Seven Seas, and
goes up and down the world preaching to
well-dressed people the unity of the Empire.
These conclusions were reached at a cocktail
party in the draw 7 ing-room of the Australia
given by Mr. Rice in honor of the 100 new
members who have been added to the League
since his ministrations began in this city.
Amenities w 7 ere exchanged over savories and
those little slivers of crisp potato that seem
the right Roland for the Olive of the Mar-
tini. The women were frightfully w 7 ell
dressed, lots of them looking positively dan-
gerous in sleeky black.
Though times arc hard, the matter must be
camouflaged to our new citizens. Only the
best is good enough for them. That is w : hy
the Karitane
Traini n g
Centre in Nel-
son - street,
Woollahra, has
appointed Sis-
ter May Rich-
ardson as its
matron. Miss
Richardson is
a Lind field
girl. Always
keen on baby
welfare, sh e
became an en -
thusiast in Dr.
Trub.v King's
m e t h o d, and
after complet-
ing her course
at the Royal
North Shore
Hospital she
went to tin'
Plunket sys-
tern’s headquarters at Karitane in Dunedin,
Maoriland, and took a four months’ course.
Then she came back to her old hospital on
the north side, and introduced its pre-natal
and post-natal clinics run on the Plunket
system. For the past five years, until her
appointment to Karitane in February, Miss
Richardson was in charge of the Obstetric
Department of the Royal North Shore Hos-
pital. .
When this Letter commented on the tired
voice of the president as he read the com-
prehensive and very human survey of medi-
cine which opened the B.M.A. conference, it
did not know how sick a man Dr. Abbott was.
It only knew that the owner of the voice had
prepared a momentous paper, and one so
graphically written that it gripped the
interest of the layman from start to finish.
Never once during the whole of the arduous
proceedings did the doctor’s voice lose its
humorous note, and everything was so
smoothly carried out by the unobtrusive
master of ceremonies that his illness came
as a surprise. But the genial surgeon, who
is at present in the Scottish Hospital—
Alexander MacCormick’s old Terraces —will
soon be about again. Massive doses of liver
extract are sending the glow of health to
his cheeks.
Another link with old Sydney snapped
when Miss Laura Hill died at the residence
of her niece Edith Hill, of Rancliff, Wool-
lahra. She was the only daughter in a
family of eleven of the late Richard Hill,
M.L.0., of Bent-street, whose cottage shel-
tered such guests as William Bede Dailey,
Chief Justice James Martin, William Charles
Wentworth, William Long and other
notables. The deceased was just on 90, and
until the cottage in Bent-street, at the back
of the Union Club was pulled down a few
years ago, the lady kept house there with a.
companion. She is survived by two only of
her brothers, Robert and Fitzwilliam.
There were no wrinkled brows about the
celebration when Noni Maas was wed last
week to Gordon Mackellar, of Double Bay.
Noni is a daughter of the Edward Maases,
and over 300 guests were bidden to eat,
drink and be merry at the Ambassadors, after
the ceremony in St. Mark’s. Noni’s white
georgettes gained an almost Oriental flavor
from being swathed to the hips by a deep
band of pearls. Tulle and silver lace formed
the train, tulle and silver lace formed the
veil, and' the bride seemed some figurine in
blown glass as she drifted up the aisle.
Bride’s sister Dolly and ’groom’s sister Mar-
garet ’maided in primrose chiffons topped by
lightweight felt hats in the same toning.
Sheaves of golden gladioli added to their
splendor. Tiny Patty Maas and Diana
Tulloch introduced poke bonnets and a fluff
of primrose chiffons into the procession.
Dr. Herrick Knowles and Isla Blomfield
were farewelled by the committee of the St.
John Ambulance last week. They have been
on the executive for over 10 years, and
will represent Sydney at the St. John Ambu-
lance conference in London in June. Neither
is going specially for the big talk, but each
will give time to it for love. Dr Knowles
will bring back his wife, who has been visit-
ing brother Dion Titheradge and Madge,
now married in America, and her other
innumerable sisters. The little doctor,, who
is a wizard with artificial sunlight, will be
missed at Prince Alfred’s.
George Walker, best known hitherto as
a beguiling salesman of Packard cars, has
been appointed secretary to his cousin Eaditli
Walker. Which may be a sign of the times.
He has taken on a big job. The charitable
interests of N.S.W.’s only woman million-
aire require nearly as much looking after
as her business interests these days. Monty,
who is so like his twin brother George that
the Union Club waiters cannot tell one from
the other, is a successful stockbroker.
Theatrical and artistic Sydney turned up
in droves at the Prince Edward on Sunday
night. This quietly beautiful theatre has
fine acoustic properties, and its Sunday pre-
views are expected to popularise the talkies
amongst those who avoid them at present—
if there are any such. Most of the manage-
ment’s guests on Sunday were confirmed film-
fans. John Longstaff, Phil Fuller, Billy
Curtis and his wife, the Frank Alberts and
the Hugh D. Mclntoshes were amongst the
well-known people in prominent seats. The
principal picture screened was an all-talkie
version of ‘‘No, No, Nanette,” with plenty
of comedy, some lovely kinema-color effects
and very little music.
Fred Broomfield, one of Sydney’s oldest
journalists, and A. H. Chisholm, president
of the Institute of Journalists, are to be
given a birthday party by the Fellowship of
Australian Writers on this Wednesday even-
ing at the Lyceum Club.
Ena Butler, whose father is Mayor of
luverell, was one of the brides who sought
benefit of St. Philip’s on Church Hill last
week. Her bridegroom was. Guy Scholes
Smith, from Barraba. Bride’s mother and
father did the handsome thing in receptions
later at the Ambassadors.
A bride who made a stir at Murwillum-
bah last week was Gladys Nicholson. She
became Mrs. Kenneth Arthur Butler, of
Vaucluse, in the local All Saints’ Church,
which was massed with flowers and foliage
for the event. A white and pink cloud of
chiffon and pink silk net served neatly with
orange blossom and tulle enfolded the bride,
while sisters Jean and Aileen ’maided in
palest pink-and-green chiffons. Toasts at
Talarali, the bride’s home.
Even if this is an age of youth it is an
age of the grandmother, too. A matter likely
to be given an airing unless the desperate
efforts of children and grandchildren succeed
in side-tracking it concerns the straying of
a woman of 65, whose girlish affections
were caught by a sheik of 50 whom she met
in the surf. She had reared a family, and
had nursed grandchildren before the eyes of
her Lothario lured her.
There was a time when you didn’t think
of “travelling P. and O.” unless you were
some sort of nabob; but times have changed,
and a music-room furnished in French-
polished mahogany and a smoking-room
panelled in oak and fitted with card tables
are among the luxurious surroundings pro-
vided on the Mongolia for third-classpassen-
gers. The Mongolia and sister ship Mol-
davia have given over the second-saloon
accommodation, and now carry only first- and
third-class ticket-holders. For as little as
£3B you can nowadays “travel P. and O.”
to Europe, with the advantage of comfortable
quarters, plenty of deck space and many of
the social amenities.
The neighbors of Mrs. Roystone Davey are
wondering at the fondness her phonograph
has lately shown for “Off to Philadelphia. ’
It’s not, as a rule, so popular out Darling
Point way as at a St. Pat.’s Night concert.
But it means a lot to the genial lady. In
Philadelphia she spent much of her girl-
hood —she was a member of its New Cen-
tury Club, very progressive . and very liter-
ary, a member of its Browning Society and
secretary of two of its music clubs. In
August Mr. and Mrs. Davey are off to
America, which will be, in their case, mostly
Boston and Philadelphia. Strangely, Mrs.
Davey has a word in favor of the New York
of to-day in comparison with the New York
she knew as a girl. Then, she says, the
styles were outre, the decorations bizarre.
Now elegance is the keynote of the decorative
scheme of public places of entertainment, the
manners are better, and the styles, mostly
of. Paris origin, among the world’s best.
OVERHEARD.
Small Man (apparently husband, to large woman,
apparently ivife) : “Look here, if you don’t stop
nagging, I’ll take a dose of strychnine!”
Lady: “Strychnine! All you nec-d is a few drops
of weed-killer! ”


WHISKY AND CRYSTAL
You cannot honour your whisky, as you can honour
your wine, by the use of Antique cut glass specially
made for it long Ago. Whisky, as a national drink,
is modern. But you can buy this Whisky and Water
Set that is made by Stuarts—who were cutting fine
glass for wine before whisky was known. This, like
every piece on which the name Stuart is etched, is an
antique of the future.
f
English Hand = made Crystal
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold
Unbreakable in
Oven use. Taste-
fully decorated.
Clean, white body.
Replacement
guarantee.
a
Made to be used on the table.
Does not break when placed
on the cold slab from a hot
oven. Replacement guarantee
against breakage in oven use.
Price of
medium size
Round. Casserole
12/9
jCarllon
Ovenware
English Manufacture.
FREE illustrated leaflet of Casseroles,
Baking and Pudding Dishes, Stew Pots,
etc. (50 different pieces), from
F. R. BARLOW & SONS PTY., LTD.,
328 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Smedley Service. — F.
w HAIR
<o * EED
here's
■unuj -
ď
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
&CUUris C MEXICAN)
Vkdtwjt SioJUTt
Removes the grey *
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (-4/6), 6d. being postage.
w
Amusements,
CYDNEY'S CHIEF THEATRES.
- J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S
THE BELLE OF NEW YORK
CRITERION: JOURNEY’S END.
ROYAL: THE PRINCE AND THE
PAUPER
C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
GLADYS MONCRIEFF in
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
JVT E W COMEDY THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
LEO CARILLO in
LOMBARDI LTD.
ING ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SEASON.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
See and hear MARIAN DAVIES in
MARIANNE,
With LAWRENCE GRAY and “UKULELE IKE.”
Also CHARLES KING in
CLIMBING THE GOLDEN STAIRS,
All Color Revuette.
> r TO SUIT
YOUR DESIRE
P*/>|
/Luxurious trains, steamers, ho-
/tels—ever ready service from
/ C.P.R. officials for the absolute
/ comfort of travelling guests—
stop overs in the Rockies and
all points of interest conveni-
ently arranged. No worries of
any kind. Every detail planned
in advance. Canadian Pacific,
is the wondrous happy way to/
the United States and Europe./
Write for literature and details./
CANADIAN PACIFiC.
247 George Street, Sydnc/
TRAINS STEAMERS • HOTELS
m
wmstiwA
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Cen[?]re of Que[?]slands
Distingurshed Sorial Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The Governor and Lady Goodwin had a
dinner-party at Government House, the
guests being Littleton Groom, liis lady and
Jessie Groom, Bishop de Witt Batty, Canon
and Mrs. Oakley, the Cecil Palmers and son
Arthur (who are just off to the Cold
Country), the Glyn Connollys, W. E. Dar-
valls, Colonel and Mrs. Campbell and
Colonel Worthington-Wilmer.
There was a reception at the Brisbane
Women’s Club, where the president, Mrs.
E. B. Harris, welcomed the guests in the
vestibule against a background of orange
dahlias and gum sprays. The club is
affiliated with the National Council of
Women, and Helen Hill, the council’s inter-
national secretary, will represent Queensland
at the meeting of the International Council
of Women in Vienna in May.
The Peter Smiths, of Kedron, have had a
golden wedding. They arrived in Brisbane
44 years ago, with their three children
walked to Kedron, and lived eight months
in a tent until the flood of ’B7 washed them
out. After turning his hand to several
callings, Peter became the first newsagent
in the district. The Smiths arc Kentish
and were married in their ’teens.
Archbishop Duhig has been stigmatising
beauty contests, where girls are asked to
parade in scanty bathing dresses, as degrad-
ing to womanhood.
St. Patrick’s Day procession was even
longer than usual. In the afternoon many
Avent to Ascot for the first day of St.
Patrick’s meeting. The committee room
verandah, which has been redecorated, was
gay with dahlias and roses. Mrs. W. J.
Hooper and Pat O’Shea were amongst those
who gave teas there. Mrs. N. A. H. Camp-
bell was in brown and beige, Ella O’Shea
in rose color, Mrs. Cecil Palmer in opal
blue, the C.J.’s lady in beige silk lace, Lady
Beatrice Moreton in floral muslin, Mrs.
Whittingliam in vellum tints and Mrs. Read-
ing in pearl grey
There is to be a kindergarten at Ashgrove;
Mrs. A. E. Moore will open it on March
29. The Ladewigs’ home in Hero-street has
been lent to the committee for a year with
ample furniture and equipment. It is
intended to make the institution self-sup-
porting and within the reach of every kiddie,
irrespective of creed. Mrs. Hembrow, the
lion sec., was formerly connected Avith the
National Children’s Homes in London.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The T.A.J.C. held its autumn meeting in
perfect weather. His Ex. and Margaret
O’Grady attended. Chairman Lindsay Miller
and Mrs. Miller entertained the vice-regal
party, with a host of others, at tea in the
pavilion, where the tables were decorated
Avith blue flovvers and blue and gold tulle.
Margaret O’Grady sported the popular dahlia
red in a face-cloth coat, over a crepe de
Chine frock in the same shade. Most of the
dresses showed an autumnal note, though a
few last roses of summer were to be seen.
The little sou’-wester felt hats were much in
evidence, though not many faces can get
away with the brimless effect. Most of the
summer visitors have gone, but many naval
folk leavened the croAvd of racegoers, among
Avhorn were the Tom Lyonses, Capt. and Mrs.
Stoyies, Dr. and Mrs. Arthur Giblin, Mrs.
Claude Boag, Mrs. Scott Nettlefold (Melb.),
Mrs. Colin Kennedy and daughter Naomi, the
Eric Johnsons, Mr. and Mrs. Vanneck, Mrs.
J. R. Symonds, the George Ganns, Dr.
and Mrs. V. R. Ratten, Dr. and Mrs. Nairn
Butler, the Gordon Blews, M rs - Wordsworth
James (Sydney), Mrs. Harry Jones, Joy
Chapman, Nancy and Betty Giblin, Mrs.
Paul Hirst, Col. and Mrs. Humphries, the
E. 11. Websters, Mrs. W. B. Propsting, the
It. M. Gores and Mrs. Walter Marks
(Sydney).
Wilfrid Hudspeth, as president of the
Hobart Repertory Society, farewelled the N.
P. Booths, at Hadley’s, before their departure
for a trip to the Cold Country. About 80
members Avere present to wish the guests a
pleasant trip and a speedy return.
Rear-Admiral Eians, the captain and
Avardroom officers of IL.M.A.S. Australia
gave a “swish” at-home. Supper was served
in the officers’ mess-rooms, and the Admiral
and Mrs. Evans entertained the O’Gradys and
a large party in the dining-room. Dancers
footed it on the enclosed deck, to the ship
band s music. Margaret O’Grady was in cow-
slip yellow, and Mrs. Evans wore shaded
apricot-to-pink chiffons. Nearly all the frocks
Avere long, and Mrs. Walter Marks caused
thrills of apprehension to many women by
appearing in long gloves. The Canberra and
the Albatross were lit up for the occasion.
, Mrs. M. A. Dick, writing from Montreux,
SAvitzerland, where she and her son and
daughter have been staying for the winter
sports, mentions that her book “Iluon Belle”
will shortly be published by a London firm.
It Avill have plenty of interest for the
Speck, which doesn’t often figure in fiction.
The O’Grady opened the Art Society’s
annual exhibition at the Continental, which
proved a distinct advance on those of
former years. There was some outstanding
work by, Mr. and Mrs. Dechaineux, Mabel
Hookey, H. Kelly and J. Connor. Daryl
Lindsay contributed a study of Ross Bridge
and J W. Roach (a South. Aus. member)
one of a ti-tree. John Eldershaw was well
represented.
Mr. J. G. Mitchell, president of the Royal
Hobart Golf Club, had a big crowd of naval
men and their Avomenfolk, together with
local friends, to tea in the Clubhouse at
Kosny. Prizes Avere given for a teams
match and a putting competition, the latter
going to Commander and Mrs. Duke. Mar-
garet O’Grady was among the guests, also
the C.J. and his lady, Mrs. Walter Marks,
Mrs. T. Weigall (Melb.), the Elliott Lewises,
Rear-Admiral and Mrs. Evans, Commander
Symonds and Mrs. Symonds, the Cox
Taylors, Mrs. Macdonald, Mrs. Chalmers,
the Cairns officers, Capt. and Mrs. Stoyies,
Mrs. and Miss Agnevv and the Eric Waughs.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Passed away at the Parkerville Seaside
Home, Sister Sarah, one of the original band
of five sisters who came to this State in 1901.
She was a true friend and a loved play-
mate of the 600 youngsters who have passed
through her hands in the last 29 years.
It was a sultry afternoon for the Davis
Cup team’s exhibition matches, the “Fre-
mantle doctor” having neglected to put in an
appearance. Play began at one o'clock at Kit-
chener Park, and 2000-odd spectators over-
flowed from the tiers of seats on to the grass.
Numbers of women braved the remarks of
those behind them and sheltered beneath
sunshades. Lady Campion, only a few hours
off the Albany express, wore an amber neck-
lace over her cafe-au-lait milanese; Mrs.
Rains was in blue and brown, Mrs. Geoff
Lynn in citron voile, Freda Weir in a fawn
coat and red liat. Mrs. James Brennan wore
navy and a string of amber beads ; Mollie
Munro was in a canary jumper suit; Mrs.
Payne wore cool pink voile, and Peg Watson-
Williams a medley of chocolate-browns. Jade
millinery topped Elsie Saw’s white voile;
sister Vera looked cool in sleeveless green
linen; Mrs. Ilawson (F.M.S.) had a pre-
dominance of red and black in her floral
crepe; her sister Gwen Williams sported an
autumn-tinted sunshade over her speckled silk
frock, and Mrs. Maxwell wore cornflower
blue.
Lady Bedford is here renewing friend-
ships formed a quarter of a century ago and
more, when she was mistress of Government
House.. The Karrakatta Club made her
welcome among its customary greenery and
a profusion of zinnias. The C.J.’s wife
said the words of greeting; and Mrs. Griffith,
the club president, did the introducing.
Daisy Main, Dora Camm and Mrs. Cecil
Mason gave some musical titbits.
Lady Bedford, who is the guest of Miss
Constance Miller, was also feted by the
Minnawarra choir. Mrs. Vincent lent her
ballroom for the occasion, and members of
the choir, garbed all in white, sang several
delightful numbers. There .were other vocal
numbers by Mrs. Higham and Mrs. Vincent,
violin solos by David Powell and piano solos
by Gwen Bray.
Dancers as well as musicians are feeling
the pinch of the talkies, and the Ambassadors
is one of the
few theatres
retaining its
ballet. The
Romany lass
alongside is
Estelle Ander-
sen, ballet-
inistress of the
girls who
dance twice a
day here. At
a very tender
age Estelle
twinkled her
toes behind the
footlights. Be-
fore she came
west two
years ago she
trained ballets
for Union
Theatres i n
Sydney, ran a
dancing school,
and during the sojourn of Alexis Dolinoff,
of the Pavlova co., in Australia was his
assistant in classical dancing.
Our one and only Edward Wittenoom, who
was Agent-General last century and Legis-
lative Council president up to quite recently,
has had a second daughter of his second
marriage born to him. The much felicitated
father was 76 last month.
Mrs. Le Tessier entertained her past and
present pupils in the Karrakatta Club, when
University elocution certificates were pre-
sented by the Mayoress. A hundred and
fifty of the young and not quite so young
folk were present 'and tried their teeth in
several competitions. Alice Mallon warbled,
Enid Gundhill played a piano solo, and a
little sketch called “The Hat” was acted
by Beryl Seward, Sylvia George and Norrie
John.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
There was a good attendance at the Port
Adelaide meeting. The chairman’s wife, Mrs.
A. V. Benson, presided at the ladies’ lun-
cheon, wearing a beige and pink-flowered
chiffon and a fawn straw hat. Some start-
ling creations came to light. An Adelaide
girl who recently returned from America
appeared in a tight scarlet chiffon confection
straight from New York, and created quite
a sensation whenever she approached the
tote. Another lady differed only from a
pantomime boy by wearing an over-dress
of black chiffon over her black tights. But
only the man or woman from Outback is
astonished at any freakish toilette in these
days.
The Edward Poveys’ young Nancy has
married Frederick Simonett; they are honey-
mooning in Sydney and depart for England
in six weeks. The wedding was a very quiet
affair in Crafers Church, the bride wearing
a pale blue frock and hat.
Mrs. Fred Hughes arrived by the Nar-
kunda with her granddaughter Hazel Carey,
daughter of General Carey, and is staying
at the Queen Adelaide Club. Mrs. Hughes
is renewing her acquaintance with Australia
after an absence of 54 years. She has several
brothers scattered about the States.
AT THE BACK OF THE NORTH WIND.
Darwin.
A Darwin wedding was that of Mr. Allen
of A. E. Jolly and Co., and Miss D. Tra-
watha. Both are from S. Aus. At Camoo-
weal Duncan Booth, mail contractor, espoused
Miss Quinlan, late of Mataranka. At Singa-
pore R. N. Palmer, formerly of the B A.T
staff, Darwin, and recently transferred to
Cocos Island, was married to Miss A. M
Ward, of the Education Department, Darwin.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. IVales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
đ
d
Food
Herd. Tuade Mark.
for Invalids
In Benger’s booklet there is a help-
ful Invalid section, also recipes for
Invalid dishes. Write for a copy,
post free.
For Invalids and others who must
take only light nourishment, there
is no Food so widely recommended
by the Medical Profession as
Benger’s.
Write for booklet to .•—BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
MEN ARE HUMAN
by VANCE PALMERBY
i llu ions erar
D/\RYL: LINDSAY-
Synopsis: Boyd McCurdie had
left Abernethy station before the
war to study law in Sydney, inhere
he enlisted. His mother had been dead
some years, and his father had proposed
marrying again. Also, old McCurdie’s
dominating energy had rather over-
whelmed him. McCurdie married, but
his young wife never became quite re-
conciled to station life. McCurdie, ivho
had represented his electorate in Par-
liament, had lost the seat over too-
pronounced utterances during the
war, and financial troubles had made
him sell out various station and other
interests and concentrate on Aber-
nethy. The story begins with him
anxiously awaiting Boyd’s return after
years at the war. At Abernethy
Boyd feels influences at work to
hold Mm to the station. He meets
again Josie Duncan, who has black
blood in her and is the home-
stead housemaid. Also, he is visited
by Barbara Mahon —as she formerly
was. She has married during Boyd's
absence a doctor named Day, and is
temporarily up from Sydney, house-
keeping for her brother Leo. Boyd
senses that there has been a break
between Barbara and her husband.
He visits Barbara several times, and
eventually decides to stay, though his
father does not like to give over the
reins altogether. Boyd dislikes and
distrusts Billy 'Mace, a rolling-stone
horsebreaker, who is paying some atten-
tion to Josie. Mrs. McCurdie (Ada),
who knows Barbara is in love with
Boyd, goes with McCurdie for a holi-
day. Barbara becomes moody towards
Boyd, and does not answer a note he
has written. Boyd finds that she has
gone to Sydney. Returning home after
the discovery, Boyd comes upon Mace,
spying on Josie bathing. He is : furious;
and a quari'el develops. This throws
Boyd and Josie together, with what
in the circumstances is the inevitable
result. On his father’s return, Boyd
lightly goes off with cattle to Sydney.
CHAPTER XX ( Continued ).
IT was a new thing to McCurdie, this
craving for a closer communion with
anyone, even his son; a breaking-down
of some part of his self-sufficiency. He
had never wanted to poke about in the
woolly spaces of other people’s minds, or
blurt out his own half-formed desires and
intentions; never wanted Ada, for instance,
to tell him what she was thinking about
when she stood at the bedroom-window
looking down at the lagoon, nor been
tempted to confide his dreams about Boyd
to her. That letting-down of the bars was
an old woman’s or a young girl’s weakness.
But now, chewing the cud of his uneasv
reflections over the fire of an evening, he
had a hankering to know just what secret
impulses moved in Boyd.
“I’m getting broody as an old hen,” he
told himself. “Time for me to be moving
off the nest and out into the world.”
And he began to think about his life in
town again. Thank God, he wasn’t a man
with one idea. He could still build up a
new career for himself at sixty-seven.
But his thoughts were once more brought
back to the future of the place by signs
of defection on the overseer’s part. There
was new ' country being opened up for
selection on the Culgoa, and Jeff had at
last found a block that satisfied him. The
girl he was engaged to had been waiting
for nearly eight years, and of late there
had been a faint note of irony in her
letters. Was he going to let himself be
tied to Abernethy for ever? Wasn’t he ever
going to make a start for himself? Spurred
to a sudden activity, he approached Mc-
Curdie, showing him the block he had
marked out on his map and reminding him
of the thousand he had promised to lend
him without interest. He had been at
Abernethy for eleven years, he repeated,
and he wasn’t growing any younger; it was
time he began to build up a place of his
own.
“Yes, yes, that’s all right,” said McCurdie
hastily. “The money’s there when you
want it.... But these ten-thousand acre
blocks—how’s any man going to make a
living on them? Stock up to the limit and
make every blade of grass work for you—
that may look all right 'for a while. It’s
all damned nonsense trying to raise sheep
in that little tinpot way, though. A few
years of hard yacker and then bankruptcy!
I’ve seen it over and over again.”
“They’re well watered,” said the over-
seer, “and wool’s firm. Likely to remain
so, too, for donkeys’ years.”
“Most things look firm till they crumble,”
said McCurdie. “Where’s Europe going to
get the money to keep on buying wool at
fancy prices? And there’s war-stock still
to be unloaded.... Have your own way,
though. A man can’t learn except by
cutting his fingers. Come to me when
you’ve finally thought it over; but don’t
let yourself be pushed into a hopeless bog.”
He knew the country Jeff’s eyes were
fixed on, knew the very block. It was good
sound sheep-country, and a steady man like
Jeff ought to do well there; but he did not
want to lose the overseer just now. If
Jeff went, Larry Byrne would go with him
to see him through his first year. He had
never heard either of them say so, but he
accepted that as a matter of course, for
they were mates in spite of their differences.
And who would Boyd have left to depend
on if they both left him just as he was
beginning to find his feet? It was not so
easy to get dependable labor, and Jeff and
Larry were worth a dozen new men, for
they knew all the dams, watercourses and
gilgais; were familiar with the earmarks and
brands of the places round about; had the
whole technique of the running of the
place at their finger-ends. It was this sense
of the place being dependent on the men
who knew its methods and terrain that
made McCurdie anxious to hold them once
he had them. Loyalty! That was the
passion he wanted to arouse in them. A
feeling that the place was a live, growing
thing, and that they owed something to
it, over and above the question of knocking
out a living.
Duncan was the one man who seemed to
have absorbed the idea thoroughly and
made it part of him. Abernethy had become
more and more the centre of his life. It
was satisfying to see him trudging across
the dew-wet grass of the night-paddock in
the morning with the collar of his rusty
coat pulled up round his ears and his short-
sighted eyes blinking at the rising sun. No
tomfool notions about striking out for him-
self in the old fellow’s mind now. He
would be lost away from Abernethy, as
miserable as a bandicoot on a burnt ridge.
And, no matter what they said, he had
done well by sticking to the place; raised
up his family decently and given them a
chance to hold their heads up in the world.
There was Ella married, and Josie—any day
she might catch the eye of some likely man
and secure a good home. The place could
take credit for what it had made of Josie.
He was riding home across country one
day from a visit of inspection to a station
forty miles away where there were store
cattle on sale, when he came across Leo
Mahon at one of the Niva Downs tanks
trying to extricate his bogged car from
the mud. It was a long time since he had
seen Leo. Secretly he had a contempt for
the young sheepowner, and would never
have ridden out of his way to exchange
greetings with him, in spite of the fact that
he was Barbara’s brother. A dull-witted
fellow, who thought of nothing but motor-
cars and machinery, and was already
beginning to get bulky about the girth-
line. But when he had helped him to lift
the hind wheels of the car on to firm ground,
he said brusquely as he plucked a tuft of
long grass to wipe his hands:
“Heard anything of Barbara lately?”
“Oh, yes,” answered Leo. “Now and
again I get a letter from her. She may
be back here one of these days.”
And then, looking covertly at McCurdie,
he added with a touch of awkwardness:
“You heard she’d got her decree?”
“Eh?” said McCurdie, his eyes becoming
suddenly concentrated. “Divorce, did you
say?”
“That’s so,” admitted Leo. “She got it
put through quietly. An undefended case,
as far as I can gather. I suppose that was
what was in her mind when she went down.”
“H’m,” said McCurdie. “Still waters....
Kept mighty quiet about it, the pair of you.
I never heard a whisper.”
“Neither did anyone else,” said Leo.
“Barbara will talk about anything but the
main thing in her mind. I don’t blame her.
She’s had a rotten time, and it wouldn’t
have made it any better for other people to
know all about it.”
“She ought to have cut the painter years
ago,” said McCmrdie. “Nothing but the
knife for some troubles. That was one
thing she might have learnt from living
with Day—about the only useful thing he
could have taught her. ... Why don’t you
give that machine of yours a rest sometimes
and try the saddle? Putting on weight,
aren’t you?”
The fact that Barbara was free again was
the one thing in his mind as he rode home.
He had always had a fatherly affection for
this girl he had seen ripening into woman-
hood, and the thought of her married to
that infernal doctor had been like a loose
tooth in his head for years. The more so,
in that her pride wouldn’t let her admit
she was unhappy. He had gauged the
situation from her silence rather than from
anything she had told him, and he had
gauged it right. Poor little devil! She
had probably had a harder time than any
of them knew.
But now that unfortunate incident in
her life was over. It could be blotted out
from her memory as completely as if it had
never happened. No children to complicate
the affair, thank goodness! And no stirring
up of mud in the newspapers, apparently.
All that Ada had said about Barbara’s
infatuation for Boyd went round and round
in his head, and he felt that she had divined
something to which he had been blind. Was
that what had kept Boyd so long in Sydney?
He felt convinced for the moment that it
was.
“Trust women to know what’s going on,”
he thought. “They’ve always got eyes in
the back of their heads where these things
are concerned.... And yet Ada was as
restless as I was at Boyd staying so long.”
A curious exuberance possessed him,
making him put his horse at the logs
beside the track as he rode down toward
the crossing. No fear of drought or bank-
ruptcy would ever worry him again if he
could bring together these two people who
were nearer to him than anyone on earth.
He saw them settled down in the place
he had made, fruitful, contented, rearing
up a brood of children who bore his name
and would preserve what he had built up.
What did old age matter if a man knew
that his work was going on, and could see
his own image in the faces of his grand-
children? No one could live for ever, but
that was. the next best thing to immortality.
“What d’you think’s happened?” he asked
Ada at dinner that night. “Barbara’s got
her divorce. Pushed it through apparently
without giving any of us an inkling. I saw
Leo when I was coming through Niva
Downs, and he dropped the news as casually
as if it was something about the shearing.
Doesn’t like to admit it was as much a
surprise to him as to the rest of us. That’s
Barbara all over. Keeps her plans locked
up in that hard little mind of hers like a
moth in a matchbox.”
He was flushed, buoyant, full of a sub-
dued excitement, but he was disappointed
to find no responsive flash of interest on
Ada’s face. She took the news calmly,
as if it did not concern her very much.
There had been a development in the
kitchen that morning, he discovered, that
affected her far more deeply, throwing ail
her plans into disarray. Josie was leaving,
and Mrs. Cleary did not see how she could
manage without her. She already had her
hands full to overflowing. And what would
happen if Mrs. Cleary went?
Looking at her troubled, self-centred eyes,
so like those of a child whose party has
been spoilt by rain, McCurdie felt the
color pass from the bubbles that had been
floating before him.
“Josie leaving?” he repeated incredu-
lously. “When did she spring that on you?”
“This morning,” said Ada with a shrug.
“We’d had a few words about the lacka-
daisical way she’d been doing things lately
—moving about in a dream and letting
things come to pieces in her hands. She
says Ella wants her to go over to Maroubra
and help her. Fudge! I don’t believe a
word of it.”
There was a decisiveness in her voice
that showed she definitely believed sojne-
thing else. McCurdie looked puzzled.
“What the devil’s got into her head, then?
She has a good home here, and I thought
she recognised it. I’ll have a word with
her in the morning,”
A faintly amused smile played about
Ada’s lips.
“My dear Roger! As if a hundred words
from you would make any difference
The girl’s in trouble. I’ve had my sus-
picions of it for weeks.”
“In trouble? Josie?”
He tilted the glass of wine he was carry-
ing to his lipsi and let the purple stains
spread upon the cloth. There was a genuine
concern in his eyes, almost a look of pain.
Ada regarded him with faintly raised
eyebrows.
“ You look desperately shocked, Roger. Any-
one might think it was your own daughter.”
“It’s Duncan’s,” McCurdie muttered.
“Brought up here, too, since she was a
nipper. Besides Who the devil has
been turning the girl’s head? Mace?”
Ada made a gesture, as if this were a part
of the affair that was quite beyond her
interest—at any rate for the moment.
“That horsebreaker? I don’t know. What
does it matter, anyway. If it wasn’t one
man it would be another. You can’t teach
a girl like that anything.”
“Nonsense,” said McCurdie. “The girl’s
all right. Never strayed on the wrong
side of the fence before, as far, as I know.
But when these fellows come monkeying
around... .I’d like to grind that half-caste’s
face beneath my heel.”
Across the teacups Ada watched his
flushed face as if he were a boy. In
moments like this she felt uncomfortably
older than he, in spite of the twenty years
between them. But perhaps all men talked
like that when the sentimental nerve in
them was touched.
“Oh, well,” she said indifferently, “I don’t
suppose it would do Mace any harm to
have that sort of treatment applied. Such
a horrid, sulky face, in spite of its romantic
eyes But don’t have any illusions about
Josie. She’s always had her eyes wide open.
I believe every bit of money she’s earned
in the last six months has gone on her
back or her feet, and the sound of a man’s
tread outside the kitchen would turn her
fingers into thumbs any hour of the day.”
She felt that Roger was missing the real
point of the difficulty, which was how to
pacify Mrs. Cleary when Josie went away.
It was no easy matter to get help as


AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends- use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
Quote you price for the original.
Booking
AT
Busy Seasons
Never take it for granted that "The Australia” is full, or
listen to people who say "it’s no use applying—they’re sure
to be booked-up.”
On the contrary, our accommodation is equal to practically all
demands placed upon it. Should we be fully booked when you
apply, we will gladly arrange the next best available accom-
modation.
Telegraphic, Cable and Wireless Address: “Austraotel,” Sydney
Capital Paid-Up,
£422.100.
ď
THE HOTEL OF THE
_ COMMONWEALTH
SYDNEY
AUSTRALASIAN BOOKS
Jf you are interested in Books on Travel,
Colonial Topography, Literature relating to the
Australian States, New Zealand, Polynesia and
the South Seas;
Books on Arabia, Persia, Indonesia and the
Par East;
Scarce publications of the leading
LEARNED SOCIETIES, SCIENTIFIC
PERIODICALS and TECHNICAL JOURNALS,
Kindly send for our latest Catalogue, (N.S.
No. 2), listing nearly 1400 items.
ORDERS FROM AUSTRALIA AND NEW
ZEALAND PROMPTLY EXECUTED.
WM. DAWSON & SONS, LTD.,
(Rare Book Dept.),
Cannon House, Ludgate Circus, London, E.C.4,
England.
Telegrams, Cables: Nonnac, Cent, London.
Missing Friends.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of
** JOHN TROY, formerly of Port Pirie,
S.A., kindly communicate Avitli BLIGHT
BROS., Port Pirie, S.A. News to advantage.
efficient as Josie’s, and she had a vision
of the housekeeper vanishing, too, and
leaving chaos behind. Meanwhile the
winter was passing, and Boyd had not come
back to take over his responsibilities. If
things were allowed to go on like this
they would be kept tied to Abernethy
indefinitely, in spite of the empty house
in town that was waiting for them. A
desperate instinct to make the most of
what she had won was warring against her
natural indolence.
“Get away—even if you have to go
alone,” it urged her. “Roger will soon
follow; he’ll be forced to. This place has
an uncanny power of its own to hold
people, unless they make an effort.... To
hold them and suck their blood.”
McCurdie, his dog at his feet, had settled
down before the fire with a book, but he
was not reading. He was not even rumina-
ting over Barbara’s divorce, the news of
which had filled him with such a pleasant
glow that afternoon. Josie had come in
to clear away the dinner-things, and he
seemed to observe her careful, stilted move-
ments through the back of his head. It
was odd, but he had a feeling of respon-
sibility toward her, as though it were
through some oversight of his she had got
into trouble. Now he came to think of
it, there had been a neglected look about
her lately, a sagging of the shoulders, a
lack of lustre about the hair. And there
was that afternoon he had seen her stand-
ing leaning against a tree by the lagooh, her
face hopeless and vacant, and the life gone
out of her body. Almost as though she
were ready to throw herself into the water
and have done with it a 11?.... Or was he
merely imagining this? Perhaps he was.
It was possible to take the affair more
seriously than she did, and put all sorts
of tragic feelings
into her mind. He
would have liked
to turn round and
say to her with
breezy sympathy:
“What’s this I
hear about you
and some young
fellow or other,
Josie? Tell me
who it is, and I’ll
make him come up
to the scratch.
Deal with him
quick and lively.”
But he couldn’t
do it. For years
he had only
spoken to the girl
when he had mis-
laid his pipe or his
leggings, or wanted
her to do some-
thing for him
about the house.
There was no basis
of understanding
on which he could
approach her now.
And, curiously
enough, the realisa-
tion of this
changed the cur-
rent of his feelings
toward her. He
began to resent the way she had upset
the smooth working of the domestic
arrangements by this aberration of hers.
What Ada had suggested was probably the
truth of the matter, after all; she was a
flighty little thing and quite likely had
thrown herself at the head of Mace or some-
one else. Hadn’t he noticed a saucy light
in he,r eyes and a seductiveness about her
whole body when she came up to the yards
to bring tea and scones to the men? As
if she were looking for trouble.
“Full of mischief as an egg’s full of
meat,” he told himself, “and men are only
human Especially men brought up at
the tail of a hawker’s cart like Mace
was.”
Well, it was no duty of his to worry
about the girl’s future. She had made her
bed. He turned his thoughts to Boyd and
Barbara, and tried to recapture the feeling
of coming felicity that had filled him when
he was riding home. <f
CHAPTER XXI.
Black Mark.
McCurdie woke one morning with the
sense of a world going unaccountably to
pieces around him. He lay looking at the
white-valanced canopy of his bed, feeling
that he would find the cause of his depres-
sion if he lay perfectly still. Ada had gone
to town the week before, taking most of
her things with her, but that was not whai,:
weighed on him; he had persuaded her to
go. She would be happier in town, buying
furniture and getting the house ready, than
waiting restlessly for Boyd to appear. Nor
was, it the slight touch of rheumatism he
had been suffering from lately
that worried him. What was
it, then, that spread a thin
grey, film over his mind, lower-
ing his vitality? He had a
consciousness of having tossed
about all night, his light sleep
disturbed by broken dreams.
Dreams that were charged with
emotion, and had no real out-
line. And at the back of his
mind was a dim memory of a
quarrel with Boyd. He had
accused his son of leaving him
in the lurch, and Boyd had
retorted with cold sneers about
the way he tried to use every-
one for his own purposes, even
his own flesh and blood. They
had faced one another in hard
hostility, each trying to strike
the other in his weakest spot.
All nonsense, of course!
There were no grounds for a
quarrel with Boyd, none what-
ever, When he had last writ-
ten he had apologised for his
delay in coming home by
telling of a fishing-visit to
Tasmania he had been per-
suaded to make with an old
friend.
Yet the aftermath of his
“‘Ai! Ai!' he yelled, sweeping off his hat and beating the con over the flanks."
dream-emotion re-
mained with Mc-
Curdie as he lay
staring up at the
white canopy. He
had a sense of having
spoken and listened
to intimate things, of
having reached some
kind of reality in his relations with his son,
disturbing though the experience had been.
Was there a fundamental antagonism be-
tween them, after all? He remembered
the look in Boyd’s eyes, a merciless, pene-
trating look such as he had sometimes
noticed in him as a boy. His mother had
had that look at times, especially after
they had had a scene about some business
deal of his she thought was over the edge.
As if she had discovered the truth about
him at last.
“H’mpli 1” he muttered, throwing the bed-
clothes from him. “When was there any-
thing to cover up? I was always perfectly
open—with her and everyone else.”
Yet he had a strong sense that morning
of a personality, bluff and aggressive, that
was a fiction he had created rather than
himself. It had larger gestures than he
had, more downright opinions. As he
shaved he gazed at his face in the glass,
studying the bald, dome-like head, the
puckered, frowning eyes and the heavy jowl,
almost as if they belonged to a stranger.
It was annoying, this disharmony, this feel-
ing of having a self he was not perfectly
at ease with when he was alone. For since
Ada had gone to town there was an empti-
ness about the house, and he had had more
time than he wanted on his hands. He
had not realised before how lonely he could
be when left to his own devices.
“I’ll be out all day with the men,” he
told Mrs. Cleary at breakfast. “We’re
beginning to muster again.”
It was a morning that had a tang of
sharpness in it, and little gossamers sparkled
with rainbow hues in the dew-steeped grass:
just such a morning, he remembered, as
that brilliant one a year before when he
had sent Duncan off in the buggy to bring
Boyd home. The horses had already been
yarded and were moving about restlessly
in the dust, nipping one another’s flanks
or lashing out with
their- heels. Mc-
Curdie tapped his
leggings with his
whip as he walked
down to the saddle-
room, but though
the warmth of his
breakfast and the
pleasant heat of
t he sun on his face
should have filled
him with content,
he was conscious
of a faint irritation
at the back of his
mind, a desire to
get rid of some of
the thoughts that
were bottled up
inside him.
“Down, dog!”
he said angrily,
flicking at Bruno,
who was fawning
round his heels.
The men, carry-
ing their saddles
on their heads,
were filing up the
track to the yards.
Duncan came last,
walking stiffly with
a slight limp, a
loose boot-sole
flapping beneath
his right foot every
time he lifted it.
Somehow the
image of the old
man increased Mc-
Curdie’s irritation
as he sorted out
his riding-gear. He
thought of Josie,
who was now stay-
ing with her sister
at Maroubra. That
business had never
been cleared up
satisfactorily,
though he had
found an excuse
for getting rid of
Mace. Just told
the fellow to clear
out, without
barneying words.
As for Duncan,
whatever humilia-
tion he might have
suffered, he said
nothing and pot-
tered about the
place with his
usual dreary gait.
“He’s getting
old,” McCurdie
told himself. “Not
half as active on
his pins as he used
to be. Doesn’t show
the same interest
in his work,
either.”
The thought
annoyed him,
almost as though
he had found his
best camp horse
getting stiff at the
knees. Duncan was
half a dozen years
younger than him
self, and at sixty
he had been equal to the hardest day in
the saddle. The fellow needed rousing up
a bit. A man was always liable to jog
along in a rut unless he felt the prick of
the spur now and then.
At the yards there was a cracking of
whips as the horses were drafted through
the different gates, and the air had sufficient
nip to make them shrink from the lash
or the touch of cold iron. Young Jim, his
horse caught, sat on the rails throwing chips
(Continued on next page.)


Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Quiet —Restful —Cool—Open to the Summer Sea Breezes. With Private Beach and Amphitheatre
Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds and uarag
Accommodation.
Tariff from 4j| guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip ‘rom City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines').
When your friend is complimented on his socks and
says that they are "Merino-Knit,” do you say "That’s
just what I wear ? ” If you do, you are wearing the best
in quality, colour and design. "Merino-Knit” Cardigans
and Sweaters are just as pleasing and satisfactory
as " Merino-Knit ” Men’s Hose.
ERINO-KNIT
“RAMENO ” Brand
Men’s Half Hose
RAMENO
BJifAIVD
VA
A
W i
y'
"Merino-Knit” Half Hose and Golf
Hose are made of Pure Australian
Merino Wool entirely, or, in the
lighter weight Half Hose, of Merino
and the best English Artificial
Silk. The colours are carefully
chosen to tone with present-
day fashions for men.
“Merino-Knit” Half Hose Is
made to fit. snugly round the
ankles and firmly on the legs,
ensuring the acme of comfojA.
and smartness.
Ask for "Merino-Knit"
Garments Stocked by
all good Mercers.
MERINO WOOLLEN MILLS
PTY. LTD.
COLUNGWOOD, VIC
I
■
■ ■
%
KfcX
s ,
,
;
e
ADDRJESS
d
162-166 Pitt Stiveet
S VT> N E V’
ď
at the dogs. who*were prowling round to
bite unwary heels. In the round yard a
chestnut stallion that had been running wild
for a year or two circled around like a
caged animal, the sunlight glistening on its
curved neck and glossy haunches. Fierce,
trumpet-like snorts came from its nostrils
as the young mares sidled past it, and it
struck savagely at the rails with its hoofs,
sending up showers of dust and splinters.
On the morning air there was a smell of
dried sweat, of hair, of herby breath.
McCurdie found Duncan examining a
long chisel, and feeling the edge with his
calloused fingers.
“What horse are you going to ride?”
hq asked abruptly.
Duncan’s short-sighted eyes wrinkled to
a slit as he looked up.
“I’ve caught my old bay mare,” he said,
“but her hoofs want touching up a bit.
Jim and me were going to fix them now.”
McCurdie strode over and looked at the
bay mare that was tied up outside the gate,
her lids drooping over her eyes and her
head hanging low. There was an aspect
of Duncan himself about her. Heavy feet
and sagging haunqhes.
“Yes,” he thought. “Potter about on an
old plug like that instead of taking one
of the young ones. Never think of Any-
thing but just getting through the day’s
work. They all come to that in the end.”
He went into the yard and caught
Warrior, then came back to where Duncan
was cutting at the mare’s hoofs with a
chisel.
“No time for that now,” he said peremp-
torily. “Besides, that mare’s due for a
spell, anyhow. Ride Black Mark.”
A flutter of interest passed over the faces
of the watching men. Black Mark was a
horse that had given Mace some trouble
when it was first handled, and since it had
come in fresh, from a spell no one was
anxious to tackle it. Beside the rails Jim
stood quite still, his eyes a little larger than
usual and his fingers playing with the fall
of his whip. He did not look at his father,
but seemed to feel in every nerve that a
situation had arisen.
“Right!” assented the old man under his
breath.
The very haste with which he went to
take the bridle off the bay mare betrayed
a quickening of the pulses. McCurdie took
the chisel he had dropped and strode off
to attend to Warrior’s hoofs, affecting not
to notice that his order had aroused any
interest. Yet the two blackboys sitting on
the rails were grinning as though in enjoy-
ment, and by the outer gate Larry Byrne
and the overseer, their horses caught, were
talking together in low tones.
“Better let me take the edge off that
black colt, Boss,” said Larry, sauntering
over. “It hasn’t had any handling since
Mace left, and may buck a bit.”
“Buck be damned!” grunted McCurdie.
“It’s been broken for weeks, hasn’t it?
You fellows think there’s something terrible
about a horse that’s inclined to hump its
back. Once it blows off the froth a bit
it’ll be quiet as a milker’s calf.”
“That’s so,” agreed Larry, “but the old
man—he hasn’t ridden anything with life
in it for a while.”
“All the more reason he should start again
now,” said McCurdie. “He can ride better
than any of you when once he’s in the
saddle. Never been thrown in his life, I
believe. For God’s sake don’t be putting
the wind up him by making him believe
that the colt is a mankiller that has to
be handled like a wild animal.”
He was annoyed that there should be
so much fuss about the carrying out of a
simple order. This shying off bad horses—
it seemed- to -show there was something
radically wrong in the working of the place.
If it went'on there would be a moral rot
and everyone; would be looking for an old
plug to ride, while the horse-paddocks would
be full of outlaws no one dared to tackle.
He knew places like that, riddled with white
ants at the heart in spite of their prosperous
look.
The black colt was drafted into the round
yard and bridled, but it was some time
before Duncan could get near enough to
put the saddle on its back. It circled round
him with a springy, dancing movement,
occasionally giving an angry, rasping snort.
Jim, sitting on the high rail, appeared to
be intent on whittling a stick with his
knife, but the pallor of his face showed
that his nerves were at high tension, and
his quick, black eyes covertly noted every
movement of man or horse. His father was
very slow in adjusting the tackling. He
carefully shifted the saddle up the colt’s
back, then, lifting his foot cautiously under
the horse’s belly, caught the swinging girth
with his toe and drew it towards him. His
fingers fumbled a little as he buckled it,
as though the sweat running down his fore-
head affected his eyesight. At last, after
flapping the stirrup-leathers and testing the
tightness of the girth, he turned suddenly
on his heel and began to climb the rails.
“What’s wrong now?” asked McCurdie
looking up. .
“I forgot‘dry quart,” said Duncan hur-
riedly. “Left it' down in the saddle-room.”
He was already off down the track, his
stiff legs plodding busily and his body bent
forward. -The blackboys shifted their
position on the rails and exchanged grins
that were full of meaning. Even Larry
and the overseer could not help smiling
at one another.
“Better get along, Jeff,” said McCurdie.
“The morning’s going. I’ll catch you up
before
“Right,” said the overseer. “We’ll split
up at the second gate.”
They went off with hobble-chains and
quartpots ,j ingling, some of the horses reefing
and plunging as they brushed together, in
passing through the gate. McCurdie walked
over to let the unwanted horses out into
the paddock, leaving the boy sitting on the
rails of the round yard. A couple of mag-
pies were building a nest in the tall gum
by the gallows. One came swooping down
upon McCurdie, its beak sounding with a
clack a foot from his head, but he drove it
off with a flick of his whip.
“Funk!” he was thinking. “Sheer funk!
Doesn’t know whether he’s on his head or
his heels I’ll let him off this morning,
poor devil!”
He did not notice the boy, who was sitting
quite still, watching the black horse that
was standing saddled in the middle of the
yard, its body bunched up sulkily and its
tail pressed down hard. Whether his father
was afraid of it, Jim did not know, but he
understood the meaning of the glances Larry
Byrne and the overseer had exchanged.
They were laughing at his father! Even
the blackboys had grinned with contempt.
Most likely they were making jokes about
pld Hobblefeet now as they rode along,
imitating the cautious way he had hovered
round with the saddle and flapped the
stirrup-leathers.
A hot sense of shame and anger filled
him, making the blood burn behind his
eyes. His father had once been the finest
rider of them all, and they knew it. The
boy was under no illusions about the nature
of fear, for his short life had been rich in
experience, and he knew it was a fluid,
unaccountable thing, changing easily into a
reckless disregard for danger, as when gal-
loping down a timbered ridge after a run-
away steer. Perhaps fear had come upon
his father now, making his nerves unsteady.
If he could only take the edge off the
black colt before the Boss came over to
the round yard again
His father rode short, and he rode long,
so there was no need to adjust the stirrup-
leathers. The black horse shivered a little
as he ran his hand lightly over its neck,
and the way it kept its tail down made its
big body look hunched and concentrated.
He hesitated a while, and then, gathering
up the reins, caught it by the left ear and
swung himself into the saddle.
For a few moments it seemed too sur-
prised to move, and then its head went
down suddenly between its legs and it leapt
forward in a plunging buck that made the
boy realise the saddle was too big for him.
But he kept his grip with his knees and
relaxed the rest of his body to lessen the
shock to his spine when the four hoofs
hit the ground. It was not the first bad
horse he had ridden. A wave of triumph
surged through him as he felt his knees
securely behind the pads.
“Ai! Ai!” he yelled, sweeping off his hat
and beating the colt over the flanks.
McCurdie, fastening the last peg in the
rails, heard the sound and came hurrying
over. He could see Jim’s head bobbing up
and down above the seven-foot rails of
the yard, and he knew the black colt was
bucking badly. A sudden anger shot through
him, and violent words rose to his lips.
What mad impulse had put the idea of
mounting a brute like that into the young-
ster’s head? Up the track from the saddle-
room Duncan was coming at a run, his
mouth open and his legs moving like a
wooden man’s, while over the round yard
there was a haze of fine dust. McCurdie
swung himself over the rails just as the
black colt, after a high buck, twined its
legs together and came crashing down
against a post.
“Good God!” McCurdie muttered, his
heart stopping for a moment with a jerk
and then bounding on.
He was beside the boy before the black
colt had leapt to its feet and sprung off
to the other side of the yard, dishevelled
and covered with dust. Duncan had dropped
over the rails, too, calling out the boy’s
name; but there was no response from the
limp figure by the ralis.
“He’s all right,” said McCurdie. “Stunned
a little by the fall. The brute let him have
some of its weight when it rolled Here,
hold up his head while I run down to the
house for some rum.”
But he knew from the first that nothing
he could do would be of any use. The boy
lay huddled with his knees up near his
chin, all the color gone from his face except
for the faint stain of blood round his lips.
(To he continued next week.)
Villanelle.
ė
ę
J. M. PRENTICE.


15hQ
“EMBASSY’
Tan
Riding Boot
Made of Tan
Yearling, with
elastic sides; half-
mid soles; stand-
ard screwed.
Obtainable in
medium or round
toes. A neat,
hard - wearing
riding boot. All
sizes.
d
27/6
PAIR.
With double
soles and re-
inforced elas-
tic sides, 28/6
è
mm
£ I 1 ~
AH3IA
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
•/S',
Monday to Friday,
A la Carte Dining and Supper
Service.
Minimum charge 7/6. Dancing till
1 a.m. Evening Dress Optional.
SATURDAY LATE GALA NIGHT.
Special Table d’hote Dinner, 217-
Special Supper from 10 o’clock,
12/6; or a la Carte, minimum, 12/6
Afternoon Tea Dansant—
Monday to Friday, 3.30 to 5.30, 2/6
Saturday, 4/-
’Phone M4l 3 1 for your reservation.
AS WE SAID BERORE
This Page will be devoted week by week to reproductions o t e
gems in picture, story and verse published in The Bulletin o ast
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old rea ers an
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
“He who gives quickly gives twice.”
Quite true. They always come back to that
sort of man.
The latest development of Love’s young
dream is the photographic hairbrush. It is
just the old arrangement in wood (or ivory)
and bristles, with a view of the adored one
let in at the back. Thus, when Angelina,
in a semi-disrobed condition, starts to operate
on her flowing mane, she is reminded of her
Edwin, far, far away. As she faces the
toilet-glass, to brush it well behind her pink
little ears, an admiring vision of her best
boy is reflected, whereupon the pet blushes
in sweet confusion and thinks “What would
he give to really see me now?” Meanwhile
Edwin, perhaps, has got Angelina by the
handle (for it is usual to exchange brush
tokens), and sighs passionately as he pounds
away at his own ivool. Efinally, they both
slip ’ their photographic hairbrush under the
pillow and retire to rest, exhausted by the
fury of. their respective emotions.
A refractory ore is an ore that won’t pay a
dividend.
From wearing a tiny rosebud in his coat-
collar the modern masher —at least, the Syd-
ney variety—now goes abroad with a bokay
the size of a saucer. Four half-blown rose-
buds in a halo of fern is one style—a handful
of dahlias and autumn leaves is another.
Nothing is too flaring or too giddy for the
badly-outlined youth of to-day, and the man
who is satisfied with one, sunflower or one
cabbage in his coat is regarded in fashionable
ciyeles as an aesthetically-lost soul. I
[“Sappho Smith"] cannot say I admire this
floral outburst on the part of the shaven
sex-—I do not think it becomes it. A blue
chin tickled by a cluster of purple dahlias,
is not soulful, and a red beard toying over
a knot of crimson roses does not appeal. I
rather like a white gardenia in an evening
suit—it lights it up ; but these gaudy Stre-
phonesque posies are unbearably silly. I lately
heard of a dance where a man —for a wager
—wore a lady’s breast-spray, reaching from
the middle button of his vest to his collar-
bone.
Now that the Brasseys have departed we
feel charitably disposed towards them, and
inclined to remember a yarn greatly to the.
credit of Lord Tommy’s papa, which runs
just like this. In the dawn of life Lord
B.’s papa was a young man with lots of
energy—a good character and (it follows)
no cash. He was in the employ of a Chester
banker, Mr. Wardell. Being (like his son’s
wife) of a pushing turn of mind, he saw
his way to enter on small contracts. At
last he was offered a very large railway
contract far beyond his means. In his
extremity he waited on his old boss, laid tin;
facts of the case before him, and asked him
for a large advance. “But,” he concluded,
“I have no security to offer you.” “Yes, you
have —the best of all, a good character. You
shall have the money.” (Mr. Wardell lived
before the days of defaulting clergymen.)
Now comes the poetry of the affair. Years
after, when Brassey was a second Croesus,
a rumor got about that Wardell’s bank was
shaky. Brassey heard of it and sped to
Chester. “I have just heard the bad news.
What sum do you require?” Several hun-
dreds of thousands was the hopeless amount.
“You shall have it.” “But I have no secu-
rity at all!” “Yes you have —the best —a
good character.” The bank was saved.
The best that can be said for most wed-
ing presents is that they are merely useless,
BRINGING HIM TO EARTH.
HE ( facetiously): “They ought to charge for ladies like you by
weight.”
SHE ( acidly): “If they did that, they would not stop to pick
you up.”
but there are times when they cause more
misery than did the gorgeously embroided
nightgown presented to Hercules. James
Bullock, a simple boundary-rider, of Salis-
bury Plains (N.S.W.), was presented with
2000 shares in the Atlas Engineering Co.,
of Sydney, as a marriage gift. If these had
been 2000 kegs of dynamite and had exploded
on delivery they would have saved James
a heap of trouble. The company bank-
rupted, and a call of Bs. a share was made
on the shareholders (who numbered 23 in
all, with individual liabilities ranging from
£BO to £3200), and James, it is now decreed,
has to pay £SOO or go insolvent. The moral
is old, and was first stated many years ago
by the eminent Mr. Joseph Geary: “If ever
a man offers you a horse cheap, ask him
‘Why?’ ”
Ah, she was like a tipy bird.
Too slender for this world,
Her voice, so soft, you scarcely heard.
Her locks in ringlets curled.
I thought that she would fade away,
So thin was she and pale;
She shuddered every chilly day,
Like a leaf before the gale.
I’ve seen her after twenty years,
A buxom, red-faced queen.
I saw her ’mid the mob’s wild cheers,
On a “take-y our-weight” machine.
I saw the apparatus break,
I heard it giving way,
She’s twenty stone, my oath I’ll take;
She will not fade away.
A clergyman had his pocket picked of £35
at one of Miss von Finkelstein’s lectures in
Melbourne the other night. The parson col-
lected it in “thrummers,” and the other
fellow collected it in the lump. That’s all.
Which reminds us that Bishop Field Flowers
Goe. of Melbourne, when asked what he
considered the most agreeable part of the
Anglican Church service, said “the collect.”
(P.S. —Be careful of your accent.)
In a northern town is a storekeeper who
is married to his son’s wife’s mother! The
son’s mother-in-law is also his stepmother,
and his wife is his father’s stepdaughter and
daughter-in-law, and his father is both father
and stepfather. The prospective complica-
tions are awful.
“What makes you drink whisky?” asked
the Williamstown (Yic.) Bench of a “drunk”
the other day. “Because,” said the prisoner
solemnly, “because it’s not hard enough to
chew.” Their Worships had noticed it them-
selves and let him go.
He is an M.P., renowned for his parsimony.
Just after a political meeting the M.P. and
a dozen local lights were whiling away an
hour and liquoring at regular intervals in
the leading local hostelry. “I am quite
hoarse,” observed the member after putting
down his tenth. “Not with shouting,”
remarked a political opponent.
There is good foundation for the allega-
tions—first made public by The Bulletin—
in re Sydney pri-
vate bars; never-
theless a deal of
unnecessary fuss is
being made as to
the attractiveness
of these institu-
tions. A Bulle-
tin scribe visited
some private bars
—a good many pri-
vate bars, in fact
—the other night.
In one of them a
faded, weary, sor- v
row-stained little
drab glared at him
with a wall-eye,
and snarled at him
with a decayed
buck-tooth, and
only relented when
he turned to go be-
cause she said it
was so lonely, no-
body had been in
drinking during the
evening—not even
a cardinal. In an-
other bar an un-
kempt female tried
to smile, but her
jaw was so unused
to the operation
that she dropped
her false teeth on
the floor, and her
glass eye tumbled
out when she
stooped to pick
them up. Every-
thing was every-
where the same—
salt, sand and sea-
marsh. Even the
unvarying old
bottle of tliree-star fusel oil was the
same, and seemed to have followed The
Bulletin’s scribe round to “fix” him.
Instead of festive houris, he saw jaded,
scraggy, high-shouldered women, whose
cheeks were red with standard-paint and
whose hair had been thieved from dead
paupers. There is little romance in the
Sydney private bar.
A facetious young man has just pasted the
printed words “Cave Canem” on the hash-
tureen at our boarding-house.
One of the most popular men in a certain
N.S.W. western town is the local manager
for Cobb and Co. He has been mayor of
his town, and a most useful one he proved
to be. He was once a party to a comical
wager. At the Royal were assembled some
remarkably smart Sydney men, who imagined
they could take liberties with the unsophis-
ticated Teddy. Among the “catch” pastimes
introduced were feats of strength, and Teddy
aforesaid wagered £5, the hospital to benefit
by it, that no Sydney man could lift him olf
the ground from a recumbent position by
the hair of the head. The wager was taken
up and Teddy stretched himself out to earn
money for the poor. The Sydney athlete
tucked up his sleeves and laid hold of the
flowing auburn locks of the prostrate man,
and, with a “long pull and a strong pull and
a pull together,” he landed himself on the
broad of his back t in a far corner of the
room. On gathering himself together, and
being helped into a perpendicular position
again, he found the other fellow still recum-
bent and his head bald and shining as
Micawber’s. His ringlets were of the mov-
able order, and the Sydney man’s simple faith
in human hair had consequently brought him
low.
A politician always lies when he says “I
will,” a woman when she says “I won’t.”
Parson (who has been summoned to
attend a dying man) : “Now, my good man,
you have lived a sinful life, and must pre-
pare to meet Him who is ever merciful.”
Hard Case (impatiently) : “Yes, yes, Par-
son, I know; He’s all right. He’s always
merciful. It’s the thought of the other
fellow that’s bothering me.”
TWO OF A KIND.
It was an ancient mariner and he was tall
and thin,
Well marked by many voyages and also
marked by gin;
He wore a spotted handkerchief and in it
wore a pin—
He was a swell!
And up the street a preacher came, a tem-
perance man was he,
His face was meek and gentle as a human
face could be ;
He soon espied and ran to meet this stranger
from the sea
His tale to tell.
“Oh, sinful, swearing sailor man, I fear that
nose so red
Is caused by pouring something else than
water in yoiy head.
And di’mond pins is vanities,” the preacher
softly said,
And gently sighed.
“Good sir,” the worthy salt replied, “I’ve
often felt the same,
But darn my fore-top capstan, I’d think it
were a shame
To wear it not, for ’tis a gift from one
Jack Green by name,
And he has died.”
“Oh, sailor man, all flesh is grass, and there-
fore hay, of course,
For Jacky Green, whate’er he’s been, ’tis
right to feel remorse ;
But woe don’t cover vanity, and grief don’t
sin endorse;
It still is sin.
“Ah, cast away such vanities, all Satan’s
wiles and deeds,
And help our noble cause along, for it hath
hosts of needs;
Come sell the pin and straightway give the
cause the net proceeds.
Give me the pin.”
That sailor man he handed o’er the pin, and
as he did
A gentle wink seemed trembling upon one
upper lid,
And in one ample fob of his the preacher’s
watch he slid,
And left in haste.
SPORTS AND PASTIMES OF CHILDHOOD.
FOND MA : “What are you doing with the baby ?”
INNOCENT-IN-CHIEF: “Oh, nothing, Ala; we are only playing trams.”
And sundry minutes after sullen swear-words
skyward soared,
And o’er the absent mariner his wrath that
preacher poured;
Not only was his watch gone, but, to make it
worse, O Lord!
That pin was paste!
ZEPH.


0
T o-Day...
the biggest factor in Golf is
the matched set idea ...
Golfers who still play a One-
Club game ... know not of
the joys that await them ...
“WILL CORRY”
MATCHED WOODS
GRADED IRONS
<S>&
The beautiful “Corry” Clubs have been justifiably acclaimed as supreme
examples of the modern Club-makers’ art. Scientifically matched and
graded in weight, length, loft , lie, and balance.
“CORRY” MATCHED WOODS DE LUXE 25/-
“CORRY” STAINLESS GRADED IRONS DE LUXE 25/-
Genuine Golf Specials!
FAMOUS “GLENEAGLE” CLUBS
The perfect Beginner’s Club, Brassies, Drivers,
Mid Irons, Mashies, Mashie Niblicks, Putters, each
SPECIAL BEGINNERS’ SETS
Comprising Driver, Mashie, Mid Iron, Putter, Two
“Lightning” Golf Balls, and Tan Canvas Bag,
with leather fittings and copy of latest Golf
Rules. Complete
9 iLf
9/OT
AUCHTERLONIE’S WOODS & IRONS
Popular with all grades of Golfers.
17/6. MICK SIMMONS’ SPECIAL
Usually
13'6
FREE LESSONS BY WILL CORKY
to every -purchaser oj a Set of Clubs.
To put the Golfing tyro on the right track, Will Corry will give, free of
any charge whatever, lessons on every angle of the game.
ď
The Popular
“PAR” GOLF BAGS
Fitted with Aluminium Base, waterproof
fabric, padded shoulder strap, three sup-
ports
16'6
Special Model, witli famous “Lightning”
Fastener
21'-
OTHER GOLF BAGS.
BEAUTIFUL NEW MODEL GOLF BAG, check
fabric, leather fittings, and special club OIF6.
divider, sin O
Ladies’ Model, 4in
22'6
NEW LEATHER GOLF BAG. Crocodile
Grain, laced sides. The perfect, ladies' bag J* O
{Carridage Paid on Golf Material.)
PROFESSIONAL GOLF TUITION
By Mr. Will Corry and Assistants on the Roof Sports Ground.
Expert Tutorship... .Rapid Proficiency Moderate Fees.
All Letters to Box 188, 720, P. 0., Haymarket, Sydney.
MickSimmonsltd.
HEADQUARTERS: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
“The Leaders in Outdoor Sport and Home Entertainment.”
HOME for cure of ALCOHOLISM and DRUGS
(BOTH SEXES)
Established 30 years. Highly recommended. Under medical supervision. Fully qualified matron
and staff. Effective and safe.
THE CENTRAL MISSION INSTITUTION,
Moreland Hall, Jessie Street, Moreland, Melbourne.
Telephone: Brunswick 744.
Tenders.
IN THE MATTER OF THE COMPANIES
1 ACT 1928 (STATE OF VICTORIA),
AND IN THE MATTER OF PHOTOMA-
TON LIMITED (IN LIQUIDATION)
(Operating Photomaton Automatic Photo-
graphic Machines), 22 York Street, Sydney.
TENDERS are hereby invited and will be
received by the Liquidator at his office as
hereunder mentioned until noon on TUES-
DAY, the fifteenth day of April, 1930, for the
Purchase of the undermentioned assets,
namely:—
Lot l—
(a) Five Photomaton automatic
photographic machines, fully
equipped .. .. .. . . £7136 0 0
(b) Five sets of spare parts for same 614 10 10
2029 11
122 18
217 15
349 1
154 1
1645
457
269 19 7
60 5
16 18
199 9
20 0
91 12
28 16 0
Lot 2
(a) Photomaton Mobile Studio
(mounted on Brockway 30cwt.
chassis, 1929 model), fully
equipped with Photomaton
machine, power take off, dynamo,
etc., registered and insured until
1931, comprehensive policy
(b) One set spart parts
Lot 3 —Surplus spare parts for Photo
maton machines
Lot 4 —Spart parte in bond
Lot s—Direx sensitised (photographic)
paper at warehouse (17 reels),
each reel contains 1000 12-inch
strips
Lot 6 —Direx sensitised (photographic)
paper in bond (310 reels)
Lot 7—Photographic chemicals
Lot B—Photographic8—Photographic mounts and
wrappers
Lot 9—7 Electrical motors, 3A.C., two
with centrifugal pumps, 4 D.C.,
all i-h.p.
Lot 10 —Vanitygraph machine and sets
Lot 11 —Office furniture and fixtures..
Lot 12—Studio furniture and fittings,
etc.
Lot 13 —Works equipment
Lot 14 —3600 Photomaton tokens for
operating machine
Lot 15 —36,000 fully-paid 6s. shares in
the capital of Photomaton (Vic-
toria), Ltd.
Lot 16 —Right to royalties on ten
machines in Victoria, four ■
machines in Queensland, and two
machines in South Australia ..
Lot 17 —Patent rights for Australia for
an invention for improvements in
automatic Photographic machines
commonly known as Photomaton
—machines subject to sales
effected of the rights for Vic-
toria and Queensland ..
The amount placed against each lot repre-
sents cost price.
Full information regarding the foregoing
assets and conditions of tender may be
obtained from the Liquidator.
Tenders must be submitted on forms pro-
vided by the Liquidator, which shall be sub-
ject to the conditions appearing thereon.
Tenders must be accompanied by bank
cheque for 10 per cent, of the amount of
the tender. The highest or any tender not
necessarily accepted.
Tenders may be submitted for the business
as a going concern, comprising the whole of
the above lots or for any one or more lots
and/or any part of any oneor more lots.
HENRY JAMIESON GIBBONS,
Liquidator.
Robertson, Crane and Gibbons, Chartered
ieoountants (Aust.). 117 Pitt Street.
Sydney, 14th March, 1930.
38
m
il
“ By my Noble-
man’s word, I
have never
tasted better
IN 1534, Francis I. gave the
new elixir Benedictine
his Royal endorsement in
enthusiastic terms. And to-
day, Benedictine is still the
choice of connoisseurs and
discriminating hosts the
world over. As a liqueur its
wonderful flavour and de-
lightful bouquet have placed
it in a class apart. A dash of
Benedictine in your Cock-
tails will improve them
tremendously, too. Try it!
For Four Centuries the World’s
Supreme Liqueur
BENEDICTINE
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Tenders.
IN THE MATTER OF THE COMPANIES
1 ACT 1928 (STATE OF VICTORIA).
AND IN THE MATTER OF PHOTOMA-
TON LIMITED (IN LIQUIDATION)
(Operating Photomaton Automatic 1 noto-
grapbie Machines). 22 York Street, Sydney.
TENDERS are hereby invited and will be
received by the Liquidator at his ofhce as
hereunder mentioned until noon on MON-
DAY. the 31st day of March, 1930, for the
hire of one or two Photomaton Machines to
be operated on space—secured from the Royal
Agricultural Society for the forthcoming
Easter Show.
These machines are well known to the
public, and the right to operate at the Show
should prove a profitable venture for an enter-
prising person.
Full information regarding the foregoing
and conditions of tender may be obtained
from the Liquidator, who will render every
assistance to a successful tenderer.
Tenders must be submitted on forms pro-
vided by the Liquidator, which, shall be sub-
ject to the conditions appearing thereon, and
the successful tenderer must be prepared to
enter into an Agreement in terms of and
subject to the conditions of the tender, and
to be approved of by the Liquidator's Solici-
tors, Messieurs Fred C. Emanuel and Pearce.
Tenders must be accompanied by a bank
cheque for 10 per cent, of the amount of the
tender. The highest or any tender not neces-
sarilv accepted.
HENRY JAMIESON GIBBONS,
Liquidator.
Robertson, Crane and Gibbons, Chartered
Accountants (Aust.). 117 Pitt Street.
Sydney, 14th March, 1930.
The Secret of
SKIN and HAIR
Loveliness
In THE regular daily use of Cuticura
Soap, and the occasional use of Cuti-
cura Ointment, women everywhere
have discovered the secret of natural
beauty. The Soap, fragrant and pure, to
cleanse; the Ointment, antiseptic and
healing to remove pimples
and irritations.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W.
c
si
a
s
*8
v
ff
Safety
Weed Tyre Chains pre-
vent dangerous skiddingl
accidents.
Protect your passen-
gers, yourself and your
car by carrying always
Weed Tyre Chains,
ready to be put on when
needed.
Look for the name
“Weed” on every hook.
Order from your dealer.
AMERICAN CHAIN CO.
New York, N, Y., U. S. A.
WEED
TYRE CHAINS


All British & Continental
CARS, TRUCKS AND MOTOR-CYCLES
EQUIPPED WITH
TecalemiT
LUBRICATING SYSTEMS
d
TECALEMIT
HOOK - ON.
TECALEMIT
PUSH - ON.
ď
đ
can be serviced by
TECALEMIT SERVICE STATIONS:
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street Perth
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street Adelaide
Keep Bros. & Wood Pry., Ltd., Bateman Street Melbourne
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street Sydney
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street Brisbane
Factory Representative: Mr. JAMES THORNELL, 312 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
TECALEMIT, LTD., Mitre House, Scrubbs Lane, London, N.W.10, England.
There are seven
reasons why
Jg
Guinness
IS GOOD FOR YOU
No. 3
DIGESTION
Guinness is a splendid
digestive. The pleasant
bitterness of the hops
brings about a more
plentiful, powerful sup-
ply of the digestive juices.
Guinness helps the bodily functions to do
their work well.
Guinness is a natural beverage is not pas-
teurised and therefore preserves its original
flavour and quality. Guinness will keep
indefinitely.
NoixsnvHxa
f *Ojsj
Guinness is a great
restorative. Famous
doctors say that it is very
valuable in cases of men-
tal and physical exhaus-
é
Mirage.
HAROLD MERGER
TELLS THE STRANGE ADVENTURE_OF A MAH
WHO THOUGHT HIS YOUTH HAD BEEN RESTORED.
AT sixty George Nixon was able to gaze
on a green world with the eyes of
youth. It seemed to him, as he strode
the twisting mountain road, that the chant-
ing of the locusts in the shining trees was a
hymn of praise to modern surgery.
It had changed him from a tired, thwarted
old man, with nothing to live for but his
wealth, to what he was now.
He had the vigor of a boy again. Life was
holding out its gifts with both hands.
Turning a bend in the road he came upon
a creeper-embowered cottage. A girl was
snipping blooms from a climbing rose, a
pretty §ight in her light summer draperies.
H'er face half turned to him as she reached
for a higher blossom, and he paused, spell-
bound, an exclamation on his lips. She
looked down at him, puzzled.
“Forgive my rudeness,” he said. “I was
surprised into it. I thought, seeing you,
that I had suddenly met again someone I
knew long ago. Before you were born,” he
added, with a smile.
“I thought I heard my name called,” she
said.
Ilis heart beat rapidly.
“Involuntarily I said ‘Naomi!’ —just like
that.”
“It is my name.”
“It is the name of the someone I used to
know!”
“Are you George Nixon ? There is a photo-
graph in mother’s album”....
“My name is Nixon,” he said, excitedly.
“Your mother’s maiden name was Carruthers,
and you are Naomi Withers? May an old
man shake your hands?”
He took them both as she offered them.
“My dear, my dear. I am glad to know you.
And your mother?” he asked eagerly.
“She is dead ; she died ten years ago.”
Somehow it was not a shock; she had been
dead to him so many years. But how tender
a delight it was to be again near this dear
memory of an old romance! Presently she
asked him in and brought him tea, with
home-made scones, which were themselves
memories.
“What a strange meeting!” he said. “I
had come here looking for a cottage to take
for a long holiday, and the first person I meet
is the daughter of the dearest friend I ever
had!”
Actually, glorying in the strength the sur-
geon’s magic had restored to him, he had
planned an idle tramp over the mountains,
resting wherever evening found him ; but a
new idea had flashed into his mind.
“There are many cottages vacant here,”
she said, and added: “Mother sometimes
spoke of you.”
“Flatteringly, I hope.”
“Yes. She told us how you once drove
off a bull that attacked her. You were boy
and girl together, weren’t you?”
Boy and girl together! His heart was
scorched with old fires. Yes, boy and girl
together—and more, much more, later! But
he had been too poor, and his prospects too
distant, to marry her; her parents had parted
them, and there had been bitterness in his
heart ever since.
Life had become very empty for him after
her marriage. Then he had married —and
had made a failure of it.
Ethel had died ; he had mourned for her
conventionally; the children had grown up
and gone their own ways; and he had found
himself eventually a rich, lonely and ageing
man.
Now, miraculously, his lost life had been
restored to him. The capacity to enjoy the
world’s, delights was once more in his. veins ;
and, though his old romance was dead, he
was offered pleasant meetings with one who
would remind him of it, and of the girl who
had beautified the best part of his life, and
might have sweetened it all. Voices on the
garden path broke in upon their conversa-
tion, and Naomi rose.
“It’s my brother and his friend Ted
Morgan,” she said.
The brother was a tall fellow, who looked
at least ten years older than liis sister. lie,
appeared uneasy. He gulped his tea, and
then got up.
“I want you,” he said to his sister. “I’m
a, hurry—got to go back to town to-night.
You 11 excuse us a moment, won’t you, Mr.
Nixon?”
It seemed to Nixon that she went unwil-
lingly.
“A bonzer girl!” observed Morgan. “Rat-
tling good sort, too.”
“She seems a very fine girl,” said Nixon
with a sudden pang. “She would be —I
knew her mother.”
“Did you, now? She must have been a
great woman, too—by her photograph. Pity
she didn’t live to keep Charlie in order.
He s a good chap, in his way; but he plays
it rather high. I reckon he makes it a bit
hard for Skeeter.”
“Naomi?”
*‘Yes—Charlie calls her Skeeter.”
. .1 prefer Naomi,” said Nixon, with old
visions of a girl in long-skirted dresses, all
trills and lace, in his mind. He was lis-
tening vaguely to the raised voices in another
room. Charlie’s was impatient and peevish,
demanding; Naomi’s pleading.
Naomi was speaking now.
We m ay lose this cottage, as we did the
other ....
But, Skeeter, I must have the money. Oh,
whats the good of talking? I thought”....
then a voice lifted in passionate terror.
Skeeter, I must have it to-morrow”....
I hen silence.
Mhen they returned, Naomi seemed sub-
dued, Charlie ruffled but triumphant. He
announced that he was leaving; he had to get
back to Sydney.
Nixon arose, saying lie would walk towards
nm station with him. His heart was exalted
with Naomi’s parting invitation to come
again.
i —l’ m going to call you Charlie,”
lie said, as they reached the road, “you’re in
trouble.”
Charlie turned upon him sharply. “How do
you know?”
“You look it. Now I want you to remember
that your mother was a very dear friend of
mine. I’d like to do something to show
how glad I am to meet her children. 1
don’t want you to tell me what the trouble
is; but. if it’s money, let me help you.”
“It’s too much.”
“Not a million pounds, by any chance?”
“A hundred.”
Nixon took out a cheque-book, leant it
against the post-and-rail fence which shut off
a vacant allotment, filled it in, and handed it
over.
“And now I want you to go back and tell
Naomi that everything’s all right.” He could
not remember when the giving of money had
caused him so much pleasure.
An even better reward came when, having
established himself in a near-by cottage, he
received her thanks.
At first, when he began to pour presents
upon her, it was with the full realisation of
his position as the friend of her mother, whose
children he regarded almost as his own.
Then a strange hope grew in him. What
curious impulses are prisoned in the germs
from which the still unexplained mystery df
life springs ! Naomi’s mother had loved him ;
now, from the very first moment Naomi
had turned to face him, affection had shown
in her attitude. He felt it always when he
met her. And it grew upon his generosity,
his delicate kindnesses. Her face lighted at
his approach.
After all, he was young again. He could
meet her in tennis on her own terms; their
joyful ramblings about the mountain beauty-
spots left him untired, or with only the
healthy weariness that youth knows. His hair,
although sprinkled with grey, had been re-
stored to crispness; the lines of weariness
had gone from his face. Life had jeered at
him with a success only won when it seemed
useless; but it had restored the wasted years
to him. Why should it not restore the
romance of which he had been robbed? If
he had lost one Naomi there was her daugh-
ter so like her....
So many fears accompanied his new hope,
that he almost wished he had never enter-
tained it; but it remained.
There was young Morgan—chief of many
admirers—undoubtedly in love with her; but
did Morgan matter? He was a nonchalant
young man, off-handed in his approaches; not
the ardent young lover obsessed with his
passion he himself had been. Obviously
Morgan did not matter. Besides, Naomi was
free to make a choice; there was no pres- |
sure upon her to marry’where she did not
love.
She did not withdraw her hand when he j
placed his upon it.
“Naomi,” he said gently, “you know I love i
you.”
“I know you do,” she said softly. Her I
face was bent shyly. If he had seen it he
might have been checked. As it was, lie
went on, talking of all he hoped to do for
her, sure, even before she spoke, that she
would consent to be his wife.
So now all his wasted life was restored
to him. He walked amongst the clouds,
triumphant, elated, pouring out his money j
in presents and preparations for the coming i
wedding. Money had been dross; with almost j
savage triumph lie employed it to gild the
happiness of which it's service robs so many
people, of which it had once robbed himself.
The sullenness of Morgan rather amused
him. The boy would get over it. He was
prepared to like him; if he could do any-
thing for him in the future he would.
The time sped happily for him until within
two days of the wedding; then he was filled
with a restless foreboding that the cup
he had filled would never reach liis lips. lie
tried to read, but could not concentrate on
the type.
He was in this uncertain mood when the
French windows opened and Ted Morgan
burst in.
“Are you going on with this, Mr. Nixon?”
the boy demanded furiously.
“What do you mean?”
“Your marriage with Skeeter?”
“Certainly.”
“Look, Mr. Nixon. Skeeter and I were fond
of each other, and we are still. She cares
for me. I know she does. We couldn’t
afford to marry; but there was an under-
standing between us. I Avas content to wait,
and so Avas she —till you came.”
“And now she prefers me.”
“She doesn’t! Not in that way. You’ve
dazzled her with your generosity; she feels
grateful”
“Will you kindly go?” Nixon said sternly.
, “No, I won’t. It’s not only my happiness
I’m fighting for, but hers—yours, too, for
that matter.”
“I’ll simply remind you that Miss Withers
had her own free choice—there was no pres-
sure upon her.”
“No pressure ! Not the pressure of grati-
tude ! Not the pressure of fear for her
brother, Avho is in trouble again, as he’ll
always be; the feeling that as your wife
she’ll be able to ask help she couldn’t ask of
a friend?”
“Leave my house! Out you go, or I’ll
throw you out.”
His footsteps crashed down the garden
path, and Nixon, seething, walked to the
window to watch him go. And there, petrified
with terror, he saw Naomi.
At the poignant note in her voice Nixon’s
illusions were shattered. In the test he
knew it was to the young man she had
turned. Her love for himself was all a
mirage.
“I see,” he said gently, coming to her “Go
to him and tell him, if you choose, that it is
he who will marry you the day after to-
morrow. I will see he is in a position to do
She hurried down the path ; and he imaged
a soft form standing beside him— Naomi
and yet a Naomi of an age of soft draperies
and frills—his own age.
\Vas it only the soft wind that passed over
his brow like a tender, consoling hand?
(Continued on next page.)


"■Gvery picture
Zells a Story’
S, r..
5' '4
b: * I
■s-ir
I i?
B»
BIW
u
m
iiii
i
KEEP DOAN’S IN THE HOUSE!
PROMPT TREATMENT PREVENTS KIDNEY COMPLAIN!
gACKACHE, urinary disorders, puffiness about the
eyes, swollen ankles, rheumatic twinges and dizzi-
ness are early signs of kidney trouble. Never neglect
such warnings! Rheumatism, stone, dropsy or incurable
stages of kidney disease may result. Keep a bottle of
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills always in the house.
Doan s Pills are not only curative in their effect—they are also a preventive kidney medicine. Even
when well you should take an occasional course of Doan s to fortify the kidneys.
TWO COMPLETE CURES.
Mrs. S. Schrowder, 29 Thomas Street, Balmain, Sydney,
says: “I can recommend Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills as a
perfect cure for all kidney ailments. This remedy cured me
some time ago of severe pains in my back and side, also
headaches and giddiness. I was really far from well, but Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills made a different woman of me, six
bottles driving the pain out of my back, banishing the head-
aches, and restoring me to good health. Considering how ill
l was it is wonderful that Doan’s Pills cured me so quickly.”
Some years later Mrs. Schrowder says i “I have the greatest
faith in Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. They cured me of
kidney trouble some years ago, and I am still well. I always
keep this medicine in the house now, and take a few doses
from time to time just as a preventive against any return of
my old complaint.”
TESTIMONY
FROM
SYDNEY.
Mr. Lewis Williams, 602 Botany Road, Botany, Sydney,
says: “X was a great sufferer with my back, and the, pain was
at times so bad that 1 had to leave my work and go home.
I was bent almost double, and could not stand up straight
without increased suffering. I used various preparations, but
only got slight relief. Reading of cures effected by Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, I decided to try them. One bottle eased
the pain, and the second completed my cure. This did not
happen yesterday, but about two years ago, and I have had no
sign of backache all that time, so it is not mere temporary
relief, but a perfect cure. I am always advising my friends
to use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and am glad to have
an opportunity to publicly recommend them.”
Sixteen years later Mrs. Williams says: “My husband is
still well, and has been free of backache since Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills cured him 18 years ago.”
d
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Sold by all Chemists and
Stores.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors, 15 Hamilton
Street, Sydney.
The Enemy.
OSMAR E. WHITE
TELLS HOW AN OLD FEUD WAS FORGOTTEN.
RICHARD TALBOT lighted his cigarette
with steady fingers and flipped the
match out into the darkness, from
which came faint shouts and the splashing
of oars as the laden boats made away into
the fogbank to landward.
“So,” said the man who called himself
llans Grimmer, "you fought against the
Prussian Guard at Zonnebeke? Then you are
a brave man, Herr Talbot. I know. I fought
on the other side.”
Talbot roused himself from the reverie
into which he had fallen while waiting,
braced against the last list of the Cliiltern
Bay, and said, only half-conscious of his
words: "Queer, that. Not that we’re due to
go out in the next half-hour or so; but that
we should go out together—just as we might
have gone out together back in ’l4.
“It was a bitter business.”
“Ja, bitter,” said the other. “Why, I
remember how Blumer, of the 119th Saxons,
turned a machine-gun on a file of prisoners
after the first Ypres affair. It was because
his son had been killed by a British shell
that morning. Ugh! It makes me sick to
think of it-—now.”
Talbot, whose mind turned eagerly from
the contemplation of the black, slopping
water overside and the blanket of silence
that enveloped the sinking ship, turned to
face the other.
“Difference in racial temperament,” he
said, with conscious tolerance in his voice.
“Seldom, if ever, things like that happened
inside the British lines. It’s against the
sporting instinct. Shooting sitting birds,
y’know.”
Grimmer sneered in the darkness.
“Oh, I don’t know,” he said deliberately.
“I had a brother who never went back to
Germany. Your Ghurkas caught him when
he was out on patrol one night. Ilis com-
rades brought his body in afterwards. It
was not pretty. Somehow, I can’t take to
you English—at least, not those of you who
fought. Your women and children suffered,
I suppose; though not like ours—starved
slowly for two long years by your cursed
blockade.”
"You should have come out and fought,”
said Talbot gently, all the old prejudices
and hatreds rising up, hot in his throat, now
that he was in sight of the Enemy. It was
like the old days: often he had pitied huddled
lumps of field-grey and khaki alike when
there was quietness between the trenches.
Yet it had only required the tat-tat of a
machine-gun far down the line to set him
hating. They were silent again. Then
Talbot added, “Rummy we’re talking like
this now. We have had all the voyage to
do it in, haven’t we?”
Grimmer laughed a little. “Well,” he
said harshly, “I suppo. it was the biggest
thing in our lives. And, ever since, we have
been trying to ferget it. The only thing
I can’t forget is that your people started it.”
Talbot forgot that the black water was
very near them, and saw the ghosts of dead
men rise and smile and go marching by, two
by two. A tide of black anger rose in him.
“You’re a liar, Grimmer!” he said, hands
twitching.
Hans Grimmer came around to face him.
slid four feet down the tilting deck and
scrambled up again.
“You cal] me a liar, you English swine!”
he said between clenched teeth.
Talbot had drawn back his hand to strike,
and loosed his muscles that the last snap of
the blow might be more effective, when a
drunken lurch of the ship threw him from
his balance and he rolled helplessly after
Grimmer down to the scuppers of the boat-
deck, where the salt water, slightly phos-
phorescent, was already lapping in and out
with a chilly, smacking sound. lie picked
himself up breathlessly, all anger gone now-,
and gave a hand to the other man to help
him rise.
“We’re mad,” he said quietly. “It’s like
fighting in a court-room. Guess the Judge’ll
decide for us, whether we like it or not. I’m
sorry, Grimmer!”
They stood together for a few minutes
longer.
“You leaving anyone behind?” asked Tal-
bot as casually as he could.
“My mother. It’s —how do you say?—
rough on her. I was never married.”
“Nor I,” said Talbot with a faint longing-
in his voice, though he added defiantly,
"Thank God. My mother is dead.”
A dark figure stumbled past them up to
the bridge ladder, coughing. It paused when
Grimmer commenced to speak and called,
“Who’s there?”
“Talbot,” said Talbot.
“Grimmer,” said Grimmer. “Is that you,
Herr Captain?”
. “Yes. Why are you not with the boats?
I had hoped everyone got off.”
“No room,” said Talbot.
“Sorry,” said the dark figure casually, and
passed on.
“Fine men, the general run of British
merchant captains,” went on Talbot, con-
versationally, pride of race persisting. “I
don’t suppose it was his fault that the old
tub piled up in the fog. By the way, do
you swim?”
“Not well.”
“Did you get a belt?”
“No. There were not enough to go round.
Did you?”
“Yes; didn’t you notice?”
There was a pause.
“Here,” said Talbot, “you’d better take
it. Not that it’ll be much use with the
sharks; but there’s always a chance. I’m
good in the water.”
“No.”
“I would if I were you. What about your
mother? Besides, as I said, I’m good in the
water.”
“No.”
“I would, if I had a mother. It’s bad on
them,” said Talbot, almost child'shly.
“All right,” said Grimmer at last. “I will,,
for her.”
He fastened the little jacket of kapok,
fumblingly, before he went on:
“If I get through, she’ll thank you, too."
There was another silence.
“Damn it,” said Talbot nervously, “I wish
the old tub ’d hurry and have done with it.
It's like waiting to go over the top.”
Grimmer nodded, although the other could
not see him.
“What was your rank?” he asked, a
moment later.
"Rank? How do you mean?”
“When you fought the Guard at Zonne-
beke?”
“Oh! I’d forgotten that for the minute.
Captain.”
"I was ober-lieutenant. Now you give me
your lifebelt. .. .for my mother. Life is
strange, is it not?”
“Urn,” said Talbot, “perhaps. But I think
the old ghosts are laid now*, don’t you?”
"But why did we nearly light just now?”
“The ghost of a ghost perhaps,” said Tal-
bot gravely. “Came snooping around when
the old Enemy that always wins in the end
loomed up. The last time we met him
face to face he promised to spare the quick-
est killer. That was when fear of him made
us fight one another. I expect our row
was a sort of habit, persisting when certain
circumstances came up.”
“Snooping?” said Grimmer dreamily. “I
do not understand'that one. Come on, let’s
get over. The ship makes a suck.”
H'ans Grimmer and Richard Talbot were
picked up by the tug St. Patrick out of
Townsville, unscathed after five hours in
shark-infested waters. Grimmer had a firm
hold of Talbot’s hair and had thrown him-
self back in the water supporting the other
man on his chest.
The Young Nun.
ê
Were the pink-cheeked children there,
Little Sister, Sister Claire?
Was there honey in the comb
On the day that you went home?
Were the country girls and boys
Chattering of country joys—
Starry-eyed, unwearied dancers
Romping through quadrilles and lancers?
Oh, away with thoughts denied !
Soon shall voices chant inside,
And Sister Gervaise, old and thin,
Ring the bell to call me in.
O Sister Gervaise, ring the bell!
I am remembering too well,
Where the golden sunflowers stare.
That I am young like Sister Claire.
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.
The Friendly River.
Bordered by green reeds and grasses.
Fron'ded fern and leafy tree,
Winds a river, calm and friendly, *
Through a valley known to me ;
And that river gives brave counsel,
As it prattles, prattles on,
To the way-worn and the world-worn,
And the weary and the wan.
As it mirrors in its bosom
Tossing tops of gum-trees tall,
Should you chance upon that river,
Tired of hoping, tired of all.
Tired of thinking, tired of toiling.
Tired of all that breathes and lives,
You shall surely hear the message
That insistently it gives.
Though through lowlands green and kindly
Now it takes a quiet course,
Far away in lofty highlands
Steep and .rough it had its source;
And as there you hearken to it
It will seem to say to you.
You the way-worn, you the world-worn,
“I have had my troubles, too.”
Standing all alone, beside it
A§ it wanders, wanders on,
It will seem to. murmur “Patience!
Peace shall come to you anon—
Peace made sweeter by your trials
And your sufferings, my friend;
Peace, as placid as my waters
Ere you reach your journey’s end.
“Courage, courage,” it will murmur;
“Think not you have lived in vain;
Full repayment, rich requital
Shall be yours for all your pain :
And the tears that you are shedding,
Or have shed in bitter grief.
Shall make strong and calm your spirit,
As the sap makes strong the leaf.”
Under leafage, utider frondage,
Thus that friendly river flows,
Ripplfes to the low banks sending,
But it only talks to those —-
Filling them with calm and courage,
As it prattles, prattles on—
Who are way-worn, who are world-worn,
Who are weary, who are wan.
w.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


d
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker- Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 41 4.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.
Queensland Agents—HOIYMES & CHUKCH, Brisbane
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
WEST, N. S.
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House/' 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. KINDER, SMITH & CO., LTD, Adelaide, S.A.
Queensland’s
Largest and Most
Effective Advertising
Medium —
THE “BRISBANE COURIER”
These amazing comparison figures should prove beyond all doubt the
superiority of the "Brisbane Courier” as an advertising medium:—
FOR YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1929.
“Brisbane Courier”:
29.152 J
columns of advertising.
Two other Brisbane dailies—one a
morning, the other an evening:
28,6722
columns of advertising.
This is easily the strongest evidence, too, that the “Courier” is first in
CIRCULATION, COVERAGE, ADVERTISING AND INFLUENCE.
Specimen copies and Rate Cards from Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Co., “Courier” Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
“THE AGE”
Established 185/}.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS !~
When you advertise you do not consider the
money involved as a speculation. You treat
this expenditure as an investment and expect
a reasonable return on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in the
affairs and development of Victoria. Its
present powerful position has been gained by
its literary worth, which appeals to an intelli-
gent public, and by its accurate and complete
news service. These factors; having a. direct
bearing on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser looking
for the best INVESTMENT for his advertising
expenditure.
“THE AGE"
Audited Net Daily Circulation,
123,533.
Hates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Che fld#er»iser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Cordon & Gotch, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL. “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
THE
Illustrated Tasmanian
Mail
Published Wednesday. Price 6d.
A Bright, Interesting Weekly, con-
ducted on the most up-to-date lines,
and illustrated throughout.
It is an established favorite with
townsfolk and country folk also in
all parts of Tasmania, and its
effectiveness as an advertising
medium is receiving ever-increasing
recognition.
It is undoubtedly
TASMANIA’S LEADING
WEEKLY
A Rate Book, giving full particulars
of the Advertising Rates charged, will
he forwarded on application.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, s>7, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Festal Address; ".Mercury," Hobart.
. Sydney Office:
f L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
'SO Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
B\V 6179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
m
m
mm#
m
m
y.-y:
'<■:
m
Bright eyes clear eyes reve a
cleansed system working in har-
mony—a system from which real health
is obtained. Let the whites lose
their brilliance, let thsm become dim.
dull and discoloured, and it tells ot
Constipation—elimination is irregular,
incomplete, or both. Biliousness.
Headaches. Flatulence are other
symptoms.
The remedy
is simple Beecham’a
Pills. This famous medicine does
its work gently and thoroughly—
is not habit forming. Beecham’s at
light will soon put you right.
beechams
PIUS
WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX
'•■sts.iaS-SrK
jonsup— cifltulcncc,
rtdigestion, stotnacH—wlcc
- i SS&* ««■
SSS,
A
FOR 87
“The Examiner” has been the trusted Friend of the Family
in Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in
Tasmania, and is still the Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
W. R. ROLPH & SONS,
Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
LAUNCESTON.
Obtainable
MR. M. S. ALLAN,
426 National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street,
ë
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper.
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6,3, months from
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
A
9
7r;
0
0°
e
6>*
l
ce
s 6
o**
6\
\u s
.•;*>^oO
o'*' A y?
, v> v <yt
°JV


L/earn how
Low the Rice ...
I before saying Too C ostly
ē
It is natural to guess too high on
Plymouth’s price—Plymouth is so
entirely different from other low-
priced cars.
It is bigger—with the largest
bodies and widest doors of any
car in its field. It is handsomer—
being Chrysler-styled. Smoother,
quieter, livelier, more flexible —it
is a typical product of Chrysler
engineering.
Plymouth rides on the largest tyres
used on any low-priced car. It
stops at the sure command of
Chrysler 4-wheel hydraulic brakes
—the only car at its price with
such absolutely dependable brak-
ing control.
Visit your Plymouth dealer. Get
the full measure of this full-size
car by putting it to any man-size
test that occurs to you. You will
marvel at its value when you buy
it, and at its quality for ever after.
C. HL R A Y_ s L E R MOTORS PRODUCT
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales ... Larke, Neave & Carter, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Lanes Motors Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Ward Motors, Limited, Brisbane
West Australia Wm. Attwood Motors, Ltd., Perth
South Australia Southern Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania Metro Motors Pty., Ltd., Hobart
New Zealand Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea W. JR. Carpenter & Co., Ltd., Rabaul
